 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|

;

}

 

VOLUME 88, NO. 11

»

 

, By Becky Reynolds

| Staff Reporter

 

The 1989 Superdance for Muscular
' Dystrophy at Washington and Lee
‘University will not be a marathon
, dance as in the past, according to
Superdance advisor Fontanne S. Bos-
* fic.
Bostic said the dance will be held
for seven hours on Friday night, Feb.
+ 4, and seven hours on Saturday night,
Feb. 5, with an hour of registration on
" Friday.
» ‘We got the feeling that several
people choose not to participate in
" Superdance because they can’t afford
4 to give 15 straight hours of time. We
hope that breaking it up into two
’ nights will solve this problem,’’ Bos-
, tic said.

Bostic said that the band Indecision
*has already been booked to play at
, Superdance, but they are still waiting

to sign a second band. ‘‘We hope the
* Connells will be the other band but we
, are still waiting to sign the contract,’
" Bostic said.
» According to Bostic, there will be a
, battle of the bands on Friday night in
which five local bands will compete,

‘Trying to

, By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

f

 

Students driving to and from Lex-
ington may have noticed the clusters
+ of blue and gold crosses on hilltops
, along interstates 81 and 64.
A West Virginia resident, Bernard
+ L. Coffindaffer, began building the
crosses after a spiritual experience.
“IT had this beautiful vision and I
» woke up and I sat on the side of my
bed and truly, really and truly, con-
" versed with the Holy Spirit,’’ he said.
«  Coffindaffer, 65, now has a cross-
planting company, Cast Thy Bread,
"Inc. The ‘Crosses of Mercy’’ have
, been built in the Virginia and neigh-

 

Staff Report

 

Washington and Lee University has
received a $250,000 gift from Edwin
A. Morris, a 1926 graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee from Greensboro,
N.C.

The gift will be divided between
two programs. An honor scholarship
will be established at Washington and
Lee, endowed at $150,000, for wor-
thy and achieving students of fine
character from the state of North Car-
olina. The remaining $100,000 is to
be used to enrich the economics pro-
gram at Washington and Lee, through
endowment in Morris’ name, in the
areas of guest lectures, materials, li-
brary acquisitions, travel, and the
overall enhancement of the teaching
program.

‘Mr. Morris’ generous gift will
enable the economics department to
enrich the curriculum, strengthen fa-
culty development efforts, and expand
research activity,’ said Larry Pep-
pers, dean of the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics at
Washington and Lee. ‘* We are indeb-
ted to Mr. Morris for his support of
our academic program.”’

Morris entered Washington and Lee
from Concord, N.C. He is a member
of Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
leadership fraternity founded at Wash-
ington and Lee, and a member of the
Sigma Chi social fraternity. He
received an honorary doctor of laws
degree from Washington and Lee in
1980. He attended the Harvard Busi-
ness School.

Ohe

nen Y LIGRAR
¥ NBL UNIVER®
Lf XINGTON, ‘* Ae

iJ06

 

WASH

Ring

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

and the first and second place winners
of the contest will open for the two
headline bands on Saturday night.

Contact will be made with all poten-
tial dancers, including students at the
five surrounding women’s colleges,
before Christmas break, Bostic said.
‘‘We need to make contact before
Christmas so people can get their
pledges over the holidays,”’ she said.

Bostic said several of the weekend
prizes have already been confirmed,
including a weekend at Greenbrier
and a weekend at the Williamsburg
Hilton. These prizes, which are do-
nated, will be given to dancers who
bring in the most pledges and money
at February’s dance.

Bostic said the Superdance commit-
tee is still working out the details for
the grand prize, which they hope will
be a 4-day weekend in Fort Lauder-
dale, Florida, over spring break. ‘“We
normally have to pay a portion of the
grand prize. If the Lauderdale week-
end works out, we will probably have
to pay air fare but the hotel accom-
modation will be donated,’’ Bostic
said.

A couple of fund raisers for the
Superdance are also in the works,
Bostic said. A bowl-a-thon was held

Superdance is set

Tuesday, and the committee is work-
ing on a Casino 21 night, a night
of gambling for those who are 21 or
older, for sometime in January.

Bostic said, ‘‘We don’t make a
whole lot of money on these fund
raisers. They are mostly used for
promoting the actual dance.

In the past, the Superdance commit-
tee has held slave auctions at the sur-
rounding women’s colleges as fund
raisers but are not going to do that this
year. According to Bostic, the auc-
tions are good publicity but the money
is difficult to collect. She said last year
they had $4,000 in pledges at the slave
auctions but only collected $500 be-
cause people do not pay their pledges
or do not take it seriously. She also
said that several of the women’ col-
leges do not like the auctions.

“We are going to use a different
avenue of publicity at the women’s
colleges this year. We hope our rep-
resentatives at these schools will get
more involved and decide on promo-
tions for their schools,’ Bostic said.

Bostic said there are no figures yet
as to the number of dancers who will
be participating but they are hoping

“for a successful weekend for Muscular
Dystrophy.

cross the country

boring states to serve as a symbol of a
prayer that Coffindaffer has com-

““*O, God, have mercy upon me
and my family for the multiple of our
sins committed daily.’ And you know,
that’s the way a man should pray for
himself and his family,’’ he said.

Each cluster contains two 20 foot
light blue crosses and a 25-foot central
Jerusalem gold cross. The clusters are
placed on hilltops, at crossroads, and
in ‘‘Bible-name towns.”’

The three hilltop crosses on Harold
and Sue Hotinger’s farm in Rock-
bridge County have prompted ques-
tions from their friends and neighbors.

‘‘They just wonder what they’re all
about,’’ Mrs. Hotinger said. ‘‘We just

‘Alumni gift is given

Morris has been a generous bene-
factor of Washington and Lee over the

years through estate-planned and ou-

tright gifts. He is a member of the
planning and development council of
the board of trustees and is a former
chairman of the university’s estate
planning council. Morris’ recent gift
of $250,000 brings to a total more
than $1 million in outright and estate
planned gifts to Washington and Lee.

Morris is the former president,
chief executive officer, and chairman
of the board of Blue Bell Inc., which
was the world’s second largest apparel
manufacturer. He is past president of
the American Apparel Manufacturers
Association and the National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers, and has served
as trustee of the American Institute for
Economic Research, the Advisory
Board of Western Goals, and as a
member of the board of directors of
the National Taxpayers Union in
Washington, D.C.

Long active in civic and philanthro-
pic affairs, Morris has been director
of Junior Achievement, the Chamber
of Commerce of Greensboro, the
United States Industrial Council, the
North Carolina Citizens Association,
the North Carolina 4-H Development
Fund and the Business - Industry Pol-
itical Action Committee.

He is the recipient of the ‘‘Disting-
uished Citizen of the Year Award’’
given by the North Carolina District
East Civitans. Morris received the
award for his contributions of time,
leadership, and money to the com-
munity, state, and nation.

 

Happy Birthday!

 

   

Photo by: Chery! Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

Murph is seen here celebrating his xxx birthday.

 

 

wought it sounded like a
thing to do.”’

Coffindaffer has paid for the entire
project himself. He says he isn’t inter-
ested in the money it has cost him.

“When I get to the Pearly Gates, I
may ask Saint Peter what this is all
costing,’’ he said chuckling.

Coffindaffer has been building the
crosses sine 1984 and puts up about
200 crosses each year. Inquiries have
come from across the country and as
far away as Indonesia and Australia.
“So you never know, we may be over
there, jumping fences with kangaroos
before the summer is over,’’ he said.

All information from article by Gail
Nardi, Richmond- Times Dispatch;
Feb, 23, 1986.

very nice

“Tum

   

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Rockbridge Theatre Concert Series will present the holiday musical ‘‘Mr. Pickwick’s Stories for a Christmas Evening ””

{

DECEMBER 1, 1988

 

Publicity Photo

on Sunday.

Musical to be staged at Lex. High

 

Staff Report

 

The spirit of Christmas comes alive
at 2:30 p.m. on Sunday, December 4
at Lexington High School with the
new holiday musical theatre produc-
tion of ‘‘Mr. Pickwick’s Stories for a
Christmas Evening’’ presented by the
Rockbridge Concert-Theatre Series.

There is no charge for W&L under-
graduate and law students, because of
the substantial support contributed by
the University to the Rockbridge Con-
cert-Theatre Series.

The magical Christmases of Charles
Dickens’ masterpieces inspired this
adaptation based upon ‘‘A Christmas
Carol’, ‘‘The Pickwick Papers’’, and
Cricket on the Hearth’’, as well as
Clement Moore’s classic ‘‘A Visit
from St. Nicholas.”’

The company of ten actors, singers
and dancers welcome the audience to
the Pickwick home for the family

 

 

 

 

at
By W. Patrick Hinely/W&I

Capt. Robert Peniston, curator of Lee Chapel on the Washington and Lee University
campus, points the way to Washington Hall for the members of the United Daught-
ers of the Confederacy. The UDC held its annual convention in Richmond recently
and traveled to Lexington to tour the city and Lee Chapel.

 

 

Christmas party. As the festivities be-
gin, lovable characters gather around
the hearth to join in story-telling, song
and dance, reliving past holiday
seasons complete with the traditional
music of the period and opulent cos-
tumes of mid-19th century England.
“‘This performance is the culmina-
tion of The Holiday in Lexington
weekend,’’ explained RCTS executive
director Lee RiCharde. ‘*And as such,
we couldn’t have asked for more ap-
propriate fare. Set in a Victorian era,
as in much of Lexington’s history, this
is classic literature, but it is fun,

lively, nostalgic, comic and
touching--wonderful family — enter-
tainment.”’

The production is staged by Troupe
America, Inc. of Minneapolis Bill Fe-
gan Associates. This program is made
possible in part by grants from the
City of Lexington, and the Virginia
Commission for the Arts in partner-
ship with the National Endowment for
the Arts.

“Mr. Pickwick’s Stories for a
Christmas Evening’? toured Canada
and the north-central U.S. last year.
Press reviews from that tour described
the show as ‘‘fresh wrappings on old
Christmas favorites that can make
children giggle, adults break out in
song and everyone leave the building
glowing with Christmas cheer.”’

Tickets are $12 for adults and $5 for
children and students. Season tickets
are also available for the remaining
four events of a five-event series for
$30 for adults and $10 for students.
The other events on the series are the
award-winning National Theatre of
the Deaf performing ‘‘King of
Hearts,”’ the jazz quartet led by saxo-
phone great Jimmy Heath and a full
production of ‘‘The Marriage of Fi-
garo”’ by the Pittsburgh Opera
Theatre with a 25-piece orchestra.

The tickets are available at the door
or by calling Yvonne Emerson at
463-4219 or Lee RiCharde at
463-9670.

Who’s Who students
named to’89 edition

 

Staff Report

 

The 1989 edition of Who’s Who
Among Students in American Uni-
versities and Colleges will include the
names of 40 students from Washing-
ton and Lee University who have been
selected as national outstanding
leaders.

Campus nominating committees and
editors of the annual directory have
included the names of those students
based on their academic achievement,
service to the community, leadership
in extracurricular activities and poten-
tial for continued success.

They join an elite group of students
selected from more than 1,400 institu-
tions of higher learning in all 50
states, the District of Columbia and
several foreign nations.

Outstanding students have been
honored in the annual directory since
it was first published in 1934.

Of the 40 W&L students included in
the 1989 volume, 32 are seniors in the
university's undergraduate divisions,
while eight are students in the W&L
School of Law.

Students selected to Who’s Who this
year from Washington and Lee Uni-
versity are: SENIORS: a iry Lucille
Anderson of Houston, Tex.; Jennifer
Mary Bray of Houston, Tex.: Matt-
hew Stephen Bryant of Houston,
Tex.; Samuel David Burns of Lexing-
ton, Va.; Barbara Ann Byington of
Annandale, Va.; Michael David Car-
roll of Honolulu, Hawaii; Erin Clegh-

om Cosby of Vienna, Va.; Thomas
Gregory Dale of Medina, N.Y.; John
William Deighan of Pennsauken,
N.J.; Christopher S. De Movellan of
Lexington, Ky.; Marie Eileen Dunne
of Charlottesville, Va.; David Scott
Grove of Herndon, Va.; Anna Mae
Hampton of Dallas, Tex.; Courtney
Hays Harpold of Charleston, W. Va.;
Vanessa Hartman of Memphis,
Tenn.; Deborah Ellen Hattes of Hart-
land, Wis.; Esther Marie Huffman of
Lovettsville, Va.; Robert Jeffrey Kel-
sey of Collierville, Tenn.; Robert
Emmett Matthews of Miami, Fla.;
John Daniel Maxwell of Waynesboro,
Pa.; William Fray McCormick of Ha-
lifax, Va.; John McDonough of Au-
gusta, Ga.; Alston Page Parker of
Thomasville, Ga.; Valerie Alane
Pierson of Greensboro, N.C.; Julie
Salerno of New Canaan, Conn.; Ken-
non Mary Savage of Piedmont, Calif. ;
Julia Caroline Sheppard of Winches-
ter, Va.; Mary Elizabeth Camp Smith
of Bassett, Va.; Rowan Gregory Pax-
ton Taylor of Portland, Ore.; and Da-
vid Edward Thompson of Dallas,
Tex,

LAW STUDENTS: John Patrick
Darby of Florence, Ala.; Wade Matt-

hews Fricke of Westlake, Ohio.; Ke-
vin James Henderson of Taylors,
S.C.; Kathryn Dean Kirmayer of

Norwalk, Conn.; Douglas C. Martin
son II of Huntsville, Ala.; Herman
Knox McMillan of Northport, Ala.;

Ronald Stephen Range of Kingsport,
Tenn.; and Anne Regina Yuengert of
Hampton, Va.

Homeless shelter operating again

 

By Jim Johnson
Staff Reporter

 

As the freezing winter months des-
cend on Lexington, Gladys Steele
prepares to deal with the problem of
sheltering the homeless.

Steele is the manager and owner of
the Gladys House Shelter for the
Homeless, which she runs in her home
on Varner Lane, under the Nelson
Street bridge. She has been taking the
homeless into her house for almost 20
years. The shelter itself was opened
three years ago.

The shelter operates officially only
during the winter months, beginning
Nov. 1. Funding and volunteer help
for running the shelter comes from
area churches and civic groups who

provide meals and supervision, These

groups volunteer on a weekly basis,

providing meals for an average of 4-5
shelter guests per night.

According to Mac Crawford, com-
mittee chairman and volunteer coor-
dinator for the shelter, additional vol-
unteer help comes from the W&L
community, with undergraduates, law
students and faculty contributing their
time and efforts. He said the shelter
committee “‘really appreciates all that
the W&L community has done.”’

During the summer months, when
the Gladys House is not officially
open, Steele supports operations with
her widow's pension from the Vet
erans’ Administration.

While most people seeking aid from
the Gladys House are from the Lex

ington area, transient homeless, such
as people travelling on the highway,
usually contact the Lexington Police
Department for aid. According to
Lexington City Manager Joseph King,
the police refer these homeless to the
Rockbridge Area Relief Association
and the Salvation Army. These organ
izations provide cash, shelter and food
to those who demonstrate need

King said currently there is not
much of a homeless problem in Lex
ington, During the winter months, he
said, police will check under bridges
and in other areas frequented by the
homeless to make sure anyone who
needs help can get it. ‘* When you look
at Lexington and Washington, D.C
he said, **

of scale.”’

there is no real comparison

According to one shelter committee
member, however, national predic
tions are that the homeless situation
will worsen. In anticipation of this,
the committee has cleared a lot given
to the shelter on Moore Street, and has
begun discussing construction of a
new shelter. Lack of funding and op
position to the construction have put
the plans on the back burner for the
time being

Steele said people who want to do
nate food, clothing or funds in the
warm weather months must give the
items to her personally

In the meantime Gladys Steele and
local volunteers will continue to pro
vide and shelter for the

who

food local

homeless cannot

themselves

provide for
OPINION

 

Give Athletes
Some Credit

Ah, yes, the W&L athlete — the overworked, underpaid W&L

athlete.

This brings a question to mind — why does the University give
only two Physical Education credits to an intercollegiate varsity ath-
lete who participates in a sport for four years?

It seems unfair that an athlete devotes at least two hours every
day, (along with pre-season, off-season, and sacrificing vacation
time) during his/her season for four years, yet must take three more
P.E. courses before his/her P.E. requirement is met.

The University is benefitting from an athlete’s participation in
sports, right? Then why isn’t the University giving credit where

credit is due (pun intended)?

An athlete would still be required to take one other P.E. course if
he/she received credit for all four years of his/her effort.

Does the University actually think an athlete will benefit in some
way from taking those three more P.E. courses? Perhaps the athlete
would become moré well-rounded. He/she wouldn’t have a concen-
tration in one single area. After all, W&L is a liberal arts college.

But does liberal arts include P.E.?

Some may say it is the athlete’s choice to give up his/her time for
a sport. It’s an extracurricular activity. Wait a minute. Isn’t chorus
an extracurricular activity? Don’t the students who voluntarily sa-
crifice one hour a day at least two times a week to chorus get one
credit hour for every semester they participate?

‘*A”’ for effort? It doesn’t seem that the athletes are getting any-
thing for their effort, accept maybe sore muscles and hopefully a
P.E. course enrollment card from Coach Dick Miller. If they want

anything more they’ Il have to sing.

NKW

Lessons from the past

 

MY VIEW
By Scott Richardson

 

Ah, November. The holidays be-
gan as we spent Thanksgiving at home
with family and friends. It was a time
to be thankful, a time to reflect on
what is, and what might have been.
November is a time of change, and a
time for remembrance.

As our generation spent the holiday
watching’ television and enjoying the
advent of another endless NBA
season, our parents and the nation re-
membered, with glassy eyes, a day in
Dallas that forever changed their lives
and ours. I gave up flipping between
Monday Night Football and MTV to
watch several excellent documentaries
marking the 25th anniversary of the
passing of John F. Kennedy.

My parents, who never watch telev-
ision, became entranced as faces from
the administration told with compell-
ing emotion of the life and death of the
beloved president.

Extensive footage followed, tracing
the events leading to the assassination
and the horrific drama that unfolded
before the eyes of the entire nation and
the world. This was not the first presi-
dent to be shot or die, but the un-
precedented media coverage made it
into perhaps the most memorable day
of this century.

Funny huh? I never hear or read of
anyone remembering where they were
and what they were doing as World
War I and II ended or the stock market
crashed. Did Kennedy, the first telev-
ision president, really project such a

forceful, infallible image? How could
someone capture so completely the at-
tention of an entire nation? Maybe we
should ask ourselves this as Reagan
laughs out the remainder of his term.
The sound byte is more powerful than
the sword.

The Kennedy image shattered as the
nation realized that we are indeed a
violent society beset by crime and an
underworld. Do you think this was a
mob hit? Were there two, maybe even
three gunmen? It seems as if we will
never know the.truth.

“Time has'a fascinating effect on his-

Meet me in the library

tory and what is fact and what is fable.
Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln, Lee
and Franklin were all great men of
legendary proportions, but Kennedy?
Time, aided by the pale white glow of
T.V., has cast its golden glow on a
man who should perhaps be re-
membered for womanizing and war.

Why give Johnson the short end of
the stick? If Kennedy had lived, in
reality he never would have lived up
to his present legend. Reagan had to
fight to keep his presidency, but I'll
bet in 50 years he'll be remembered as
a great president. I knew I should have
taken acting lessons.

While the quality of this past elec-
tion left little to be thankful for - is it
possible to be marginally thankful?
I'm thankful for our democratic
processes despite their trappings.
Power changes hands extremely fast
in Washington, brutally so. But, this
transfer is a marvel we should all be
thankful for. It’s a pleasant paradox
that the most powerful position in the
world usually changes hands with no
bloodshed. The king is dead; long live
the king.

Merry Christmas!!!

   

NEWS STAFF

OPINION PAGE STAFF

Editorial Layout ............s00086
CAPTOODIEEE .crscrcssscercccescecssocecees

BUSINESS STAFF

is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi,
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

Tri-Editors ........sssccsessereeeseceeeeeeseseeensess

Assignment Editors ..........:::sccecseeeeeseeeeees
Sports Editor ........:0ccceeceeeeseeeeneeenseeeeeees
Entertainment Editor ................ceeeeeeeeeees
Layout Editor ..........:scccsesseeeeeeeeeeeneeeneees
PRO EGMOF ...ccrcsccscccccccsccvccccccccessseneress

Editorial Page Editor ...........::.00ceeeseeeseeees

Business Manager .............sssscsssssscssecsees

Assistant Business Manager ...................++
Advertising Manager ...........::cseeeeereeeees
Circulation Manager ........:::ssssscceceereeeeees

The Ring-tum Phi

sacheasssaasoosecasonsecscnsanied Elizabeth Parkins

Heidi Read
Nancy Whalen

Gecassscasasieaacascsdbbuavontontects Eleanor Nelson
Pri Mike Shady

ernannccssaneteiecenecs Pamela Kelley
.. Stephen Ingram
Jeff Woodland

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year
at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily form advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to
Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current

Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1988

 

 
  

Yes, aut you! Mell
ay doat we have Prem
duc fe Same day

 

 

 

  
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

 

MY VIEW
By C.Edward Klank

It has been quite a while since I have
made a contribution to this fine pub-
lication, and I feel that I will bring up
some issues that should be discussed.
As in the past, I will approach every
issue from an unbiased viewpoint.

Recently a sophomore brought to
my attention a story that not only sur-
prised me, but shook my Judeo-Chris-
tian values. This sophomore who wit-
nessed this startling event has asked to
remain anonymous. Of course, I could
tell you, but then I would have to kill
you. Jokes aside, this sophomore
(who from this point on I will refer to
as Saul Boil) was in the University Li-
brary- I forget which floor, the third
or fourth I believe, but I’m not overly
worried about the facts- trying to
study for a very important mid-term
examination. He took a break to run to
the little boys room. As he was return-
ing to his study carrel, he passed a
study room, from which he heard
some commotion. Saul looked into the
room through a window on the door,
and much to his surprise there were
two undergraduates, a representative

 

To the Editors:

 

 

On Wednesday evening November 16, two
WLUR disc jockeys aired uncomplimentary re-
marks concerning Washington and Lee women
and Trident. ‘‘Remarks broadcast with the ex-
pressed intent of ridiculing any individual or
group are a direct violation of established station
policy.”’ They should not be taken as a reflection

I regretted not finding more students in atten-
dance of the concert in Lee Chapel on Monday
night. I understand we all have a lot to do the last
two weeks of school, but please make the time to
go to university functions. The events in Lee
Chapel are generally of high caliber and serve as
an important part of the college experience. It’s
not that we don’t have legitimate time pressures-
we do, it’s just that the student representation at
such events reflects upon our school to quest per-
formers, lecturers, politicians, etc. which come
from all over the world. I shudder to think that

3 Anp Next On

OUR LIBRARY
TUR, we
WAvs sTUDENTS

rooe ’ "Ss ile

from both the major genders, rough-
housing in the room. After a closer
examination, Saul realized that these
two undergrads were carrying acts of
passion, procreating, slapping little
Johnny behind the ear, however you
would like to phrase it. Saul was
shocked into paralysis. The male half
of this cute couple looked up and no-
ticed Saul. Saul came to, and went to
find other people to laugh at these
clowns, but when Saul came back the
room had been straightened’ and va-
cated. Saul included more details
when he related this story to me, but
these acts committed by these two le-
chers are so profound and so disgust-
ing that proper decorum prevents me
from mentioning them in this dis-
cussion.

How does the student body react to
actions such as these? (This is a rhet-
orical question.) Two years ago, I
wrote an article in this same pub-
lication about the increasing incidents
of public displays of affection on
campus. They heard but did not listen.
Obviously, the problem has escalated
during the last two years. Actions
such as these present practical, as well
as moral problems for the entire stu-
dent body. First of all, grubbing in the
University Library may disrupt the
study patterns of others. I think it

Third World Hunger

 

MY VIEW
By Julia Kirk

 

Do you remember when you were a
child and your mother caught you hid-
ing your brussels sprouts under your
mashed potatoes? Chances are she
told you to eat them; there were chil-
dren starving in Ethiopia. As an intel-
ligent, curious child, you may have
asked what your brussels sprouts had
to do with starving Africans, or if you
did see a connection, you offered to
send your unwanted veggies to Ethio-
pia. After all, buying a clear cons-
cience with brussels sprouts was.-a
good deal, a truly cheap price. Send-
ing unwanted or surplus food to dis-
tressed nations is cheap, painless, and
in most cases terribly wrong.

Wheat sent to hungry nations serves
many purposes. First it feeds starving
people, until the supply runs out and
more must be sent. Secondly, it
undercuts the price of domestic pro-

duce and may put struggling tarmers
out of work, thereby adding to the
ranks of people dependent on the
government. Also, countries that suf-
fer long-term food shortages often be-
come dependent on_ internationat
hand-outs. Instead of developing via;
ble agri-systems they look to Live
Aid, Band Aid, and Bob Geldof to
save them. In short, by sending huge
quantities of food to countries like
Ethiopia we simply put off starvatior
temporarily, we do not stop it, and we
may even be perpetuating famine. *

Nations that cannot feed themselves
would benefit more from tractors, ad-
visors, and modern technology thant
they do from our surplus wheat. We.,,
the western world, tend to take the
easy way out of*d painful moral di-’
lemma - the disparities between our,
surplus and Third World need - by
sending food. The brussels sprouts we *
offered to send as children have,
changed into tons upon tons of wheat.
It is time we accepted the fact that we *
do more harm than good, and change ,
our alimentary policies.

‘4

 

would be hard to concentrate on an
academic subject if the entire floor
was shaking because two people were
unable to control their animal desires.
Also, it would be hard to remain seri-
ous about studying, if people were
making noises that sounded like a
couple of steers dying. I also believe
that most people would rather watch a
young man and woman make idiots of
themselves rather than study for a test.
In addition, these types of acts may
create messes that the custodial staff
of the library is not prepared to
handle. With the AIDS virus in mind,
unless the male carries around appara-
tuses the Surgeon General recom-
mends using in his wallet (which is
very redneck), the chances of spread-
ing this virus are increased. I do not
think the library should put in vending
machines to meet the needs of a few
individuals. However, there is a posi-
tive side to this incident. With the in-
creased number of male students
wearing earrings, weird clothes, such
as black leather pants, chemicals in

Washington and Lee might well be considered the
campus at which performances are attended pri-
marily by townspeople instead of students.
Unfortunately it was even more disappointing to
see the students that did attend. Talk about poor

representation!

ruined the performance.

Several guys were snoring; the girl across the
way was reading her library book; another few
guys were looking through a magazine; several
were passing notes; and one couple in particular
conversed incessantly throughout the second half
of the show. So obnoxious were they, most
everyone I saw after the show reported they

WLUR dismisses disc jockeys for remarks

of its management or staff.

The two individuals have been discharged from
their positions at WLUR and will not be allowed
to participate in any station activities for the re-
mainder of their academic careers. Any such vio-
lations on the part of the station personnel have
been dealt with in a similar manner.

Impolite quartet audience annoys student |

On behalf of WLUR and the Journalism De-
partment I apologize to our audience in general
and the University community in particular.

The quartet did receive a standing ovation
which is an honor rarely given in a chapel - it &
would seem to indicated the general audience
thought they were great. Whether they were or
not is , of course, personal opinion; nonetheless,
it is appropriate to applaud at the end of a show. It
is inappropriate to run for the exit while perfor-
mers take their bows - as did most of the people in
the balcony. It seems to me such behavior might
be acceptable at Wilson Field; however, in the
chapel respect is due.

4

their hair, and hair down to their mid- ,
back, it is nice to see. an old-fashioned
heterosexual relationship, although in ‘
this case it was neither the time nor ,
place. ;
The question remains what to do if,
one confronts this type of situation.
The first rule is not to laugh out loud ’
in order not to disturb the lovely cou-
ple. Try to recruit as large a audience’
as possible- the more the merrier. -
When the time is right-I’ll leave it up
to the individual to determine when *
“the time is right’’- everybody run in ,
and shock the couple. If one is short of
money, blackmail the two for all they ‘
are worth. In this case, a camera ,
would help. If you do not need any
money, but are instead feeling bel- '
ligerent, ask the young lady to leave, :
and slap the guy around a little bit just
to make him feel like worthless dirt. If »
there are a group of guys, take his
clothes and let him run around in his *
birthday suit. The possibilities are ,
endless, just use your imagination.

Robert J. deMaria
Associate Prof, of :
Professor of Journalism

Truly embarrassed, |
Mike McClung ‘89

 

 

 
’

NEWS

  

Hirsch works

on display in

dupont

 

" Staff Report

 

‘‘Personal Architecture,’’ an exhi-

" bit of paintings and large sculpture by

Ted Hirsch, will be shown in Wash-
ington and Lee University’s duPont

' Gallery Dec. 2 through Dec. 15.

An opening reception and lecture by
Hirsch will be held Monday, Dec. 5,
at 7 p.m. in the gallery. The exhibit,

. reception, and lecture are all open to

the public free of charge.
Hirsch received his B.A. in visual
, arts, Magna cum laude, from Harvard
University in 1984. He is a member of
* the McGuffey Art Center and a board
, member of Second Street Gallery,
both of which are in Charlottesville,
‘Va.
Since 1986, Hirsch has held solo
shows at the Arlington (Va.) Art
*Center, Gallery K (Washington,
_D.C.), Davidson College, South-
eastern Center for Contemporary Art
* (Winston-Salem, N.C.), and the
McGuffey Art Center. He has also
"exhibited at Woodberry Forest School
+ (Orange, Va.), the 1708 Gallery in
Richmond, Va., Sert Gallery (Har-
‘vard University), Sarah Rentschler
, Gallery (New York City), and the Sid
Oakley Gallery (Creedmoor, N.C.).
* Hirsch has had several of his works
, in juried shows and has won numerous
awards in the last year. Among his
' awards are: the ‘‘Metro Art’’ Installa-
, tion in the D.C. Metro; Juror’s Prize
at the Arlington (Va.) Art Center
’ Painting Show; Award of Distinction
,at the Penninsula Fine Arts Center
Juried Show (Newport News, Va.);
-and Juror’s Prize in the Regional Jur-
ied Show at the Second Street Gallery
* (Charlottesville).
+ duPont Gallery hours are 9 a.m. to
5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Ad-
"mission is free.

Executive

Committee:

‘Budgets set

 

+ Staff Reports

 

* 1) President De Movellan called the
. Meeting to order at 6:55 p.m.
2) The minutes of the November 14
‘ meeting were approved with the fol-
«lowing corrections: a. In item #7,
‘“*White’’ should be changed to
‘White.’ bh. In item #7, Part a,-
. ‘solely.’ should be changed to
*‘solely.’’ In item #8, ‘‘an’’ should
‘ appear as ‘‘and.”’
3) The Political Review, Ski Club,
and Liberty Hall Volunteers made
‘ their respective budget reports to the
, Executive Committee. All of the or-
ganizations were financially stable.
‘ 4) The Liberty Hall Volunteers also
, made a budget request for $876.45.
The Executive Committee voted to al-
\ locate them $120.00 for a new Wedge
Tent.
‘ 5) The Film Society had their bud-
«get frozen for failing to submit a bud-
get report this evening.
' 6) On December 5, the Executive
,Committee will hold budget hearings
for the following organizations: Mock
‘Convention, G.H.Q. Lax, Cold
,Check, Amnesty International, and
Live Drive.
‘, 7) The meeting was adjourned at
,1:29 p.m.

4

 

nual Gaines Hall Christmas Party.

 

 

Students decorate a Christmas tree in the Gaines Hall Gatehouse during the ist An-

Photo by: Chery! Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

US-Japan relations:
Kato to give lecture

 

Staff Report

 

Rysozo Kato, an expert in Japanese
security and defense issues, will open
this year’s Telford Lecture Series at
Washington and Lee University on
Monday, Dec. 5.

Kato’s lecture, ‘U.S. - Japan Part-
nerships in the Pacific Age,’’ will be
presented at 8 p.m. in the University
Library’s Northern Auditorium and is
open to the public.

Since January 1987, Kato has ser-
ved as political counselor at the Em-
bassy of Japan in Washington, D.C.
From 1984 until 1987, he was a direc-
tor in the Treaties Bureau of the
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs
in Tokyo and, from 1981 until 1984,
was director of the National Security
Affairs Division of the North Ameri-
can Affairs Bureau. Among other as-

Cats poisoned

By Betsy Griffin
Staff Reporter

 

The pets of two W&L seniors were
recently poisoned. The cause of death
is unknown, but it is believed that the
cats ate antifreeze, according to Dr.
Douglass Hopkins, a veterinarian at
the Blue Ridge Animal Clinic.

Dr. Hopkins said antifreeze is lethal
to cats since it only takes a teaspoon to
cause death. He said the substance
destroys a cat’s kidneys in only a few
days. W&L senior Christie Davis said
she noticed her cat was acting

LT SA A Ta LST

 

 

| interviews by Cheryl Barrett

 

 

 

signments in these posts, Kato was the
chief Japanese negotiator for the
U.S.-Japan Defense Technology
Agreement.

Kato also spent two years in the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs at Yale
Law School and has subsequently held
posts in Tokyo, Washington, Austra-
lia, and Egypt, dealing with both pol-
itical and economic matters.

Each year the Telford Foundation
sponsors lectureships at Washington
and Lee. The series for the 1988-89
academic year has been organized by
the School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics and the East Asian Studies
Program. The topic of this year’s ser-
ies is ‘‘The U.S. and Japan.” Two
more lectures in the series, ‘“The U.S.
and Japan: Trading Places,’’ and
“‘NHK: Television News and Politics
in Japan,”’ are scheduled for January
and April.

by antifreeze

e

strangely on Wednesday and by Sun-
day it had died.

Davis’ roommate, Melissa Anemo-
janis, said she noticed that her cat ac-
ted like Davis’. She said the vet put it
on a dialysis machine and it recovered
within a few days.

Dr. Hopkins said samples have been
sent to the state laboratory to deter-
mine what poisoned the cats.

Pet owners should be careful since
the antifreeze that leaks out of cars is
enough to kill a pet. Symptoms that
seem like a simple cold could be a
much more serious problem.

The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1988, Page 3

| Five sororities will give talks

 

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

Starting the first week of the winter
term, undergraduate women at W&L
will begin the move toward colonizing
sororities.

On Jan. 4 five national sororities
(Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa
Gamma, Pi Beta Phi, Chi Omega, and
Kappa Delta) will give presentations
to the students. These sororities were
chosen according to the interest indi-
cated on the surveys and according to
the interest and cooperation of the
national sororities.

At each presentation, women will
be able to leave comments on the three
sororities they would select. All pre
sentations will take place in Northern
Auditorium.

The following Sunday, Jan. 8 the
decision will be made on which sorori-
ties will colonize here.

In the second week of the term,
mandatory rush information sessions
will be held in Lee Chapel. Women
wanting to rush must attend either a
session on Wednesday or Friday in
Lee Chapel.

Tentatively, actual rush will begin
on Sunday, Jan 22, the fourth week of
the term. Open houses on Sunday will

 

as women’s rush begins

be followed by group interview ses-
sions and receptions on Monday and
Tuesday

Preference parties would take place
that Wednesday and women would be
invited back by certain sororities.
After these parties, women would turn
in their preference cards of what sor-
orities they want to join.

Bids would be given that Thursday.

All rush functions will be organized

and run by representatives of the
national sororities and their alumni.
Current members of sororities would

come only to assist in presentations
and open houses.

stress management discussions

By Todd Peppers
Staff Reporter

 

Take a minute and ask yourself the
following questions: Do I eat at least
one hot, balanced meal a day? Do I
have the appropriate weight for my
height? Do I have an income adequate
to meet basic expenses? Do I get
strength from my religious beliefs?
Do I have a network of friends and ac-
quaintances?

These questions are taken from a
test entitled ‘‘How Vulnerable Are
You To Stress? The test, developed
by psychologists Lyle H. Miller and
Alma Dell Smith, asks 20 questions
which are ranked by how they affect
your life. The resulting score demon-
strates how susceptible a person is to
the daily stresses of life.

As Washington and Lee students
rapidly approach their finals, the ques-
tion of stress management become
more and more timely. Three work-
shops on the topic are being sponsored
by the Health Education Committee of
W&L. On Thursday, Dec. 1, Dr.
James Worth, University Psycholo-
gist, will lecture at 7 p.m. in the Moot
courtroom. The second lecture is
Monday, Dec. 5, at 7 p.m. in the gate
house of Gaines Hall. Dean Schroer-
Lamont, associate dean of students,
and Dr. Horton-Marcella, University
Physician, will lead the discussion.
The final presentation is on Wednes-
day, Dec. 7 in room 109 of the Uni-
versity Center. Dr. Pickral, university
physician, will chair this discussion.

Carol Calkins, program coordinator
of the committee, said, ‘“The idea of

our workshop is to have two different
authorities speak. One will deal with
the psychological aspects and one will
speak on the physiological aspects of
stress and how to manage it.”’

All three discussions, which are
open to the W&L community, will
deal with similar subject matter. Stu-
dents can therefore have a choice of
which workshop to attend. Handouts
on stress management will be avail-
able at each lecture. After the even-
ing’s speaker students can view a
videotape on relaxation techniques.

Calkins added jokingly, ‘‘These lec-
tures will help you survive your final
exams.’’ Students who have difficulty
facing the pressures of finals, or sim-
ply desire to reduce stress levels in
their daily lives, should consider at-
tending.

 

John Boller, Delia Ford, Carli Flippen and Monica Burke in ‘‘No Exit.’’

Sartre’s ‘‘No Exit” in Boiler Room Theater

 

Staff Report

 

‘No Exit,”’ the best known play by
existentialist _philosopher/dramatist
Jean-Paul Sartre, will be presented by
the Washington and Lee University
Theatre Friday, Dec. 2, through Sun-
day Dec. 4. The performances will be
at 8 p.m. in the Boiler Room Theatre
on Henry Street.

The play is a combined acting and
directing thesis for W&L seniors
Monica Burke and Delia Ford.

**No Exit’’ opens when two women

 

 

 

dates.”’

 

' Jones Tyler, Charles City, VA,
Senior—‘‘To stop VMI's from going
over there at odd hours with their

Ashley Gray,

Bethesda,
Freshman—‘‘I’ve only been in the li
brary once on a scavenger hunt.”’

MD,
ior—‘‘They did?”’

Tayna Pergola, Easton, CT, Jun-

TALKBACK

Stu

Senior—**]

interruptions.

Sheldon,

avoid

-and a man find themselves in hell. As

the characters discover, hell is not the
expected place of fire and brimstone,
but simply a room where they create
their own hell through humiliation and
mental anguish they inflict on one an-
other. The torture of living together
for an eternity becomes far greater to
the characters than any other torture
they had anticipated.

The cast includes Ford as the beau-
tiful, but self-centered Estelle, a
young woman plagued by her own
cruel selfishness. Burke plays the part
of Inez, a lesbian whose crafty manip-

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

ulation of people has earned her this
punishment. John Boller, also a W&L
senior, plays Garcin, a Frenchman
with a complex about his cowardice,
and freshman Carli Flippen plays the
valet.

Reservations for ‘‘No Exit’’ can be
made by calling the theatre box office
at 463-8637, beginning Nov. 28.
Ticket prices are $5 for adults and $3
for senior citizens and non-W&L stu-
dents under the age of 18. W&L facul-
ty, staff and students are admitted
free.

 

 

Photos by Beth Freund

 

 

Why do you think windows were added to the doors of the study rooms in the library?

 

Lenexa, KS,
embarrassing omore

more

Sandi Dudley, Henry, VA, Soph-

**Maybe because
than
occurring.”

I believe

academic affairs were

 

 
  

Food Drive

FUI fraternity and Alpha Phi
Omega service fraternity are co-
sponsoring a large food drive next
week, Dec. 5-9. They will involve
all members of the community in-
cluding the public schools, univer-
sity students, faculty, fraternities,
and other organizations all over
town in order to collect food and
dollar donations for those in Rock-
bridge who ordinarily do not get
enough to eat. Please watch for
signs and receptor locations and
give if you are able during this
holiday season.

Added drop/add

The Registrar’s Office will be
closed on Saturday, January 7 but
will accept registration changes
(drops and adds) until 4:30 p.m. on
Monday, January 9.

      

Library times

Fri., Dec. 16: Close at 6:00 p.m.
Sat.-Sun., Dec. 17-18: Closed
Mon.-Thurs., Dec. 19-22: Open
8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m.

Fri., Dec. 23-Mon., Jan. 2: Closed
Tues., Jan. 3: Open
8:00 a.m. & resume

24-hour schedule.

 

   

1MmSe
Stauntcn, Va
885-3409

 

 

Canine
chronicles

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is very pleased to announce
its next presentation, My Life as a
Dog (Sweden, 1985, directed by
Lasse Hallstrom.

Showings will be at 8:00 p.m. on
Friday December 2, and Saturday
December 3, Lewis Hall’s Class-
room ‘‘A.’’ There is no charge for
admission. The film is Swedish,
with English subtitles.

My Life as a Dog is something
very special. Set in Sweden in the
late-1950’s, a time of Sputnik and
the first Johansson/Patterson fight,
the film chronicles the experiences
of a young boy shipped out to the
country to stay with relatives dur-
ing his mother’s illness.

Call for V-ball

All those interested in participat-
ing in the Volleyball Club are re-
quested to attend the team meeting
to be held in the 500 level class-
room of the gym Sunday at 7:30
p.m.

Money to ski

The Ski Club will meet at 7 p.m.
tonight in Newcomb 7. Dues will
be collected, so bring your check-
book.

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,

Lamb, Veal, Italian And
Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close

Reservations suggested

General Notes

Rise n’ shine

Rising juniors interested in the
Oxford Student Exchange Program
can apply to Prof. Jarrett in New-
comb Hall N-3, Ext. 8770.

Library business

Washington and Lee’s Institute
for Family Business is distributing
a survey questionnaire to all stu-
dents. The purpose of the survey is
to learn about student interest in
the family business. The Depart-
ment of Administration of the
Commerce School asks that all
questionnaires be completed and
returned to either the Circulation
Desk in the University Library or
to Professor Lawrence M. La-
mont, 213 Commerce School.

Live Drive

Live Drive will be operating
three vans for the Christmas Con-
cert on Friday, December 2. A van
will stop at each fraternity house
and in front of Baker dorm
(for freshmen and Gaines resi-
dents). Service will begin at 9:30;
a van should be at each stop about

Hike or exams?

Hike up House Mountain in what
may be winter conditions. Show
sovereignty in the face of exam
dread. Wear sturdy shoes or hiking
boots and warm clothing. Bring
along rain protection, water or
juice, and a snack. You should be
in reasonably good physical condi-
tion, for the last part of the climb is
rather steep. Meet at Baker 106 at
12:30 p.m. Will return by 5:30
p.m.

Alumni apply

Applications from members of
the Class of 1989 who wish to be
considered for the Alumni Staff
Associate post for the 1989-90
academic year are due by Decem-
ber 16.

Graduating seniors should sub-
mit a letter of applications and a re-
sume to Alumni Secretary Dick
Sessoms at the Alumni House. The
Staff Associate job is currently
held by Chris Deighan, ‘87 and be-
comes available July 1.

A personal interview for each

 

 

 

  

every half hour. Vans will run until applicant will be scheduled in early
the end of the concert. January.
FUN
ACTION
ADVENTURE

However you describe it The Survival Game is America's favorite new
out door pastime. It's capture-the-flag with a difference: each player
carries a marking pistol that shoots paint-filled “Splat-Balls". To win
you must avoid your opponent's paint,while stealing theirflag and re-
turning it to your base. It's a game of strategy, daring...and great fun.
For Information Call:
ULTIMATE CHALLENGE SURVIVAL GAME
804-372-4735

Or Write:
P.O.Box 802
V,

 

  
 

   

Hairstylist
136 Varner Lane
463-3975
Open Evenings
Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

sSN

      
     

 
 

WHEN YOU'RE
READY TOGO FROM

MAKING THE GRADE

Country ©) Fare

COUNTRY CRAFTS & ANTIQUES

KAREN A. NOELI
703/463-2088

TO MAKING IT,

THE PLACE TO BE IS NCNB.

NCNB is looking for bright, motivated peo-
ple. People who want to share in the success of one
of thelargest banking organizations in the Southeast.
People who have the initiative, energy and enthu-

siasm to make things happen.

_ With six-nine hours of accounting, you could
begin a career in commercial lending. Wealso need
people for positions in operations management,

systems support, trust, audit, control, mortgage
lending, retail banking and funds management.

In North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
Florida, Maryland and Virginia, we need people who

want to become part of one of the most dynamic

financial institutions in the country. Now that
you're ready to make it,
the place to be is NCNB.

NCNS

NCNB will be conducting interviews at W&L on January 30, 1989.

Sere ter os r ee

 

4 E. WASHINGTON ST.
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1988

Saturday class

Classes will begin on Tuesday
morning, January 3, 1989, at 8:00
a.m. Classes taught on this day will
be those normally taught on Mon-
day. Likewise, Tuesday classes
will be taught on Wednesday,
Wednesday classes on Thursday,
Thursday classes on Friday, Friday
classes on Saturday, January 7.
Normal Monday to Friday opera-
tion will resume on Monday, Jan-
uary 9.

Tuesday, January 3 Monday’s
Wednesday, January 4 Tuesday’s
Thursday, January 5 Wednesday's
Friday, January 6 Thursday’s
Saturday, January 7 Friday’s

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
   
     
  

ROTC has

nese
Correction: |

A news story in the Nov. 17 edition
of The Ring-Tum Phi on the possi:
bility of a tax on student cars con
tained an error.

The fifth paragraph should have
said ‘‘Lexington could perhaps raise!
as much as $250,000 annually througt|
a tax on student vehicles, thanks to 4
personal property tax rate of 5.5 per-|
cent -- the highest in Virginia.’’ What
appeared in the Phi was, ‘‘Lexington
could perhaps raise as much as)
$250,000 annually through a tax on!
student vehicles, thanks to a 5.5 per
cent personal property tax rate in Vir
ginia.””

 

 

a deal fo

needy students

Staff Report

 

The Army Reserve Officers’ Train-
ing Corps (ROTC) Scholarship Pro-
gram provides financial assistance for
the education and training of highly
motivated young men and women who
desire to serve in the military service
as commissioned officers.

In addition to the ROTC four-year
scholarships usually awarded to high
school students entering college, there
are other Army ROTC scholarships
available for students who are already
enrolled in college.

Students who have three years re-
maining toward a baccalaureate de-
gree may apply for a three-year schol-
arship. There are also two-year schol-
arships for students currently enrolled
as college sophomores.

These scholarships pay some of the
college tuition and provide a specified
amount for textbooks, supplies and
educational fees. In addition, schol-
arship winners receive an allowance
of $100 per month for up to ten
months each school year that the
scholarship is in effect. Students also
receive pay for attending the six-

week Advanced Camp during the
summer between the junior and senior
years of college. The benefits from an
ROTC scholarship at Washington and
Lee are worth over $9,000 per year
and there are over 25 W&L students
who are presently enjoying these
benefits.

Three- and two- year scholarships
may be used at any college or univer-
sity where Army ROTC courses aré
offered. Scholarship students are ree
quired to serve in the military for a
period of eight years. This may bé
fulfilled either by serving two to four
years on active duty followed by sery-
ing the remainder of the obligation itt
the Army National Guard or the U.S,
Army Reserve. Or, students could
serve eight years in the Army Nationat
Guard or U.S. Army Reserve follow-
ing the Active Duty completion of an
officer basic course. The ROTC De~«
partment will be taking applications
from qualified freshmen and sopho-
mores starting Dec. 7. If you are in«
terested in what the ROTC program
can do for you, contact CPT. Ray’
Ramos of 2LT Jon Missert at the Mili-
tary Science Building or call us at
463-8480. ,

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDWARE STORES ©

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

 

 

player.

 

Robert Haley, Washington & Lee Senior, All-American Tennis

“MY ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIP
IS PAYING OFF TWICE.”

‘My two-year Army ROTC scholarship is paying for
most of my W&L education. It is worth over $9,000 per
year. But it is paying off even more with leadership ex-
perience and officer credentials impressive to future
employers.”

Robert Haley is one of over 25 W&L students who
have won Army ROTC scholarships. You can, too!

Applications are being accepted starting December 7.
Contact CPT Ramon Ramos or 2LT Jon Missert at the
Military Science Building or call us at 463-8480.

 

ARMY ROTC

=~

a et

 

 

 

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

a

 

 

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1988

 

Basketball blows out Tigers

 

‘By Jay Plotkin
(Staff Reporter

 

On Tuesday night, the Washington
mand Lee basketball team took the court
\ for its Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
‘ence opener against arch-rival Hamp-
yden-Sydney.
| +41he Generals came into the game
‘with a 2-1 record with wins over Gal-
| Jaudet 80-54 and North Carolina

Wesleyan 86-75 in the W&L Tip-Off

Tournament on Nov. 18-19. The loss
fame on the road to Emory, 94-79,
aver break on Nov. 21.

The Tigers came into the game on a
roll. The pre-season pick to win the
gpnference, they were 4-0 on the
'ygung season and fresh off a 92-91
upset win over Division I William and
Afary.
hey If 1 want to be scared {of H-SC],

Kd look at their stats,"’ said W&L
jhead coach Verne Canfield Tuesday
‘afternoon. “‘They’ve got some awe-
seme stats, and I can’t match up with
their stats.”

),, Indeed Hampden-Sydney came into
the game with very impressive stats.

Aquatics program lo

As a team they were shooting 54 per-

cent from the floor averaging 88
points a game. Five Tigers averaged
in double figures, led by freshman
center Russell Turner and senior
guard Ralph Baker at 20.5 each. Tur-
ner and sophomore , forward Orson
Williams were both shooting at least
63 percent from the field.

‘They've got some talented young
men. They’re young, but they have
some weaknesses,”’ said Canfield be-
fore the game. ‘‘We are going to try to
exploit their weaknesses.

‘*] just have an awfully good feeling
the guys are going to play very well
tonight.”

And Canfield’s gut feeling could not
have been more right.

After falling behind 8-2, the Gen-
erals went on a 13-2 run and never
trailed again. Sophomore guard Mike
Holton’s three- point bomb broke an
8-8 tie and sent the Generals on their
way to a blow out.

When Hampden-Sydney cut the
Generals’ lead to 28-22 with about
seven minutes left in the first half,
Canfield looked down the bench and
found instant offense in sophomore

guard Pat Gallavan. In a little more
than five minutes, Gallavan scored 10
points on five of six shooting, includ-
ing an off-balance 15 footer at the
halftime buzzer to send the Generals
to the locker room with a 43-32 lead.

By halftime, all eight Generals who
played in the first half had scored.
Gallavan led with 10, followed by
sophomore forward Craig Hatfield
with eight, and classmates Chris
Jacobs, Ed Hart, and Holton with six
each.

Just as Gallavan provided the spark
for W&L in the first half from the out-
side, Jacobs, a 6-6 center, and Hart, a
6-5 forward, kept the fire burning
with some outstanding inside play in
the second half.

Jacobs and Hart combined to score
eight of the Generals first 10 second
half points to extend the lead to 51-35.
Both players finished the game with
20 points, and both were perfect from
the foul line. In the second half, the
Generals shot a perfect 10 of 10 from
the charity stripe.

The final score was 94-74 as W&L
threw a balanced attack at H-SC.
Jacobs finished with 20 points and a

Women’s squad ready to defend ODAC’s

 

 

‘By’ Amy Packard
"Staff Reporter

said.

 

Success is a two-edged sword, and Washington and Lee
-Aatics director Page Remillard knows it all too well.

held the evening of Nov. 19.
‘‘Sweet Briar’s focus was on the dance,”

Remillard

‘‘T hope those priorities are reflected in their perfor-
mance at the end of the season.”’

The Generals’ coach was quick to downplay the signifi-
cance of W&L’s performance at the Invitational.

+ )Remillard’s W&L women swimmers enter their 1988-89
j season with the confidence of last year’s Old Dominion
\thletic Conference championship — the first ever confer-
rence championship for a W&L women’s team.
;, But with last year’s success comes pressure to defend
“that title. Remillard said that he and his team will not rest
«on their laurels.
mg Last year, we caught [perennial ODAC swimming
ower]Sweet Briar sleeping,’’ the Generals’ coach said.
But this year the competition will be tougher. They have
Rome strong swimmers back from Europe. Plus, we no
Afonger have a diving program.”
# For all Remillard’s concern, however, the Generals
Shave gotten off to an impressive start — and they have
FHone so against their ODAC rivals.
8 At the W&L Invitational, held Nov. 19-20 at Cy Twom-
Ply Pool, W&L got a chance to size up those rivals, includ-
eing Sweet Briar. The Generals won the meet, sending a
Message that they are prepared to pick up right where they
Heft off last season.
Pesweet Briar, the’only ODAC. team to. defeat W&L. in.a
yyrdnal meet last year, chose not to participate in the final ses-
sion of the Invitational, largely due to the meet’s schedul-
ing conflict with VMI's Ring Figure dance, which was

KELLY’S CORNER

   
 
   
  
 
 
  
   

   

“The Invitational is an early-season opportunity for the
teams to meet each other and establish the competition,”’
Remillard said. ‘‘It should not be interpreted as how the
season will go. It helps us get a sense of the quality in each
event, and it is especially helpful for freshmen to evaluate
the other teams and for they themselves to be evaluated. ””

Meanwhile, the team is continuing to train hard for its
dual-meet season, with particular emphasis on the after-
noon of Dec. 7. The opponent? Sweet Briar.

Judging from the strength of the swimmers this year,
Remillard and his swimmers ought to have good reason to
anticipate a repeat performance. Senior Elizabeth Miles
already has qualified for the NCAA Division III national
championships in the 1650-yard freestyle. Classmate
Nancy Whalen and juniors Kris Amoroso and Heather
Logan will be key competitors in the sprint freestyle, the
backstroke and the breaststroke, respectively.

Sophomores Sharon Coleman, Rachelle Nock and Kris-
tin Wagner are expected to excel in the butterfly, the
breaststroke and distante-évert The’ roster Of promising”
freshmen includes Louise Adamson, Brannon Aden, Tina
Dunford, Alex Glynn, Jodi Herring and Stephanie
McHaney.

 

game-high 11 rebounds. Hart finished
with 20 points, Gallavan added 15 in
just 13 minutes, and Holton had 13
points and seven assists. Brading, the
team’s leading scorer, tallied just five.

‘*That’s one of the nice things about
this win,’’ said Canfield after the win.
‘‘Here, our key player in terms of
stats, had an off game. Someone else
picked up the slack. Chris|Jacobs] had
probably his best game I’ve seen here
at W&L last year or this year.

**T thought everybody had a part in
it [the win,] and that’s Washington
and Lee basketball, that’s what I
like.”

One other thing that Canfield was
impressed with was the crowd. A rau-
cous throng of 1,447 turned out for
the game, and that is appreciated by
the basketball team. ‘‘It was really
nice to see the people in the stands
standing up and clapping. We need
them here next Wednesday for
Bridgewater, and with their help, we
just might be able to do that job.””

Next, the 3-1 Generals hit the road
for games at Greensboro on Thursday
and Lynchburg on Saturday.

 

 

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Chris Jacobs powers the ball up for two of his game-
high 20 points against Hampden-Sydney.

oks to improve on last season’s success

Nation’s Top 8 is goal for men’s team

 

From Staff Reports

 

It seems that almost every year the expectations for the
Washington and Lee men’s swim team get greater and
greater, and yet, year after year, head coach Page Remil-
lard and his charges meet and go beyond those expec-
tations.

Will the trend continue in 1988-89? Even Remillard ad-
mits it will be difficult for the men’s team to better its
11th-place finish in the Division III National Champion-
ships a year ago.

Difficult yes, but don’t think for a minute that the W&L
swimmers don’t have their sights set on repeating — and
going beyond — the achievements of the past.

Last season, the men’s team captured the Atlantic States
Championship and then went on to the national champion-
ships, where seven Generals garnered All-America hon-
ors. All seven of those All-Americans are back for the men
this year and head coach Page Remillard has set his team’s
goals accordingly.

‘At nationals, we want to get into the top 10, and really,
we’re shooting for a finish in the top eight,’’ said Remil-
lard, whose W&L career record of 42-36-1 places him
third behind W&L swimming coaching legends E.P.
‘*Cy‘* Twombly and Bill Stearns. **We’ve got a very diffi-
cult duat-meet schedule ahead GPs.’

’ W&L ‘has already gotten of Ma strong start, defeating ~

VMI 149-78 on Nov. 16. ‘‘The VMI meet really helped
get our mental frame on swimming,”’ said Remillard.

‘I’m feeling better about this team than I felt about last
year’s. They are acting like a team that wants to go out and
win it.””

The Generals will meet the challenge of 1988-89 with a
talented stock of veterans and an equally talented set of
newcomers. Topping that list has to be junior backstroker
David Olson, who captured All-America honors in seven
events last year.

Olson, who broke three school records last season, came
within one-hundredth of a second of winning the 100-yard
backstroke at nationals. Olson also earned All-America
status in the 200-yard backstroke, the 200-yard individual
medley, the 200- yard medley relay, 400-yard medley re-
lay, the 200-yard freestyle relay, and the 400-yard frees-
tyle relay.

Six other Generals who earned All-America status in
1988, seniors Moose Herring, Jeff Bercaw, David Dietz
and David Reavy and juniors Adam Morgan and Shawn
Copeland, are also back this season. Reavy, Copeland and
Dietz, along with Olson, were part of the school-record
400-yard medley relay team that finished sixth at nationals
last year, while Copeland and Olson joined Herring and
Bercaw on the eighth-place 200-medley team.

Bercaw also grabbed All-America honors in the 100 but-
terfly, while Copeland reached that level in the 200 breast-
stroke.

‘*1 think we have an excellent mix this year,’ Remillard
said. ‘*We're young and yet we're experienced, too. It de-
finitely should be a positive experience. When experience
is the difference in a meet, we'll have what it takes.

 

Furniture Dealers

pertisls ta

     
    
    
    
     
     

Cooperative Gallery of Local Artists & Craftspeople
Handcrafted silver & porcelain jewelry, pottery, silk scarves,

For your extra pieces of furniture

 

 

   

On At. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexingto Li
463-5452 = er ’ 115 S. Main St. 463-2742 ‘eal baskets, sculpture, woodwork, glass, sketches, paintings and
ee es “@, Photographs of local landscapes, Lexington landmarks and
tel aki 3.1\M Virginia flowers.
(ee keg }

: i : Perfect Christmas Gifts
Biomedical Sciences i Po Vf

Your stop for convenience YOU QUALIFY FOR

 

, : Integrated graduate Corner of Washington & Main Sts.
and friendly service. training opportunities : INSTANT CREDIT! Omen 10 on son 8
‘ eR; ‘ : pen a.m.- .m. Mon.-Sat.
Gladly supplying all of your ele aaah View & Master Gard eccepted
party needs. +Cell Biology/ Cell Physiology fl) chacce Inoiee-TATELY |e === SS Samra meer

j
¢ Developmental Biology J will send you a Members
/Anatomy f Credit Card at_once with

i
‘
i
i

R.E. Lee Episcopal Church:

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|

Hair Salon

Sute

 

 

17 South Randolph St.
Call for an appointment with
i Sherry, Angie, Rita or Nicole

MEMBERS _?0.201465 |

FORT LAUDERDALE,
FLORIDA 33338

Students

CREO GPP

i
i
i
i
I
Merry Christmas and nes Health NO CREDIT CHECK. Buy any
CleNCes Jewelry, Clothing,Sport- ‘ é 2
Happy New Year ¢Immunology/Pathology ine Geode Marches, Bless ! Attention W&L Undergraduate Episcopal Students:
* Molecular Biology/Genetics tronics & MORE! All with 3
shhaaeclonnes installment payments out y All undergraduate Episcopal students are in-
Hunting Licenses and Supplies, Groceries, Camo Clothes, Game * Pharmacological Sciences of our "Giant 100+ Pages vited to meet in the R.E. Lee Church library at
Room Tuition and stipends are ff catalog." Take 12 months J 6:00 p.m. for a pizza dinner and Bible study on
Open 7 days Miles & Sandy Nye, proprietors provided. ee wee : to lagi a oo i Dec. 4th.
oe strong academic reco credit card is a -second §
: Shouldapeeyanareact | [.D.~ valuable for checl  S=SS=S= Saaarre
| o ¢ interest and contact: cashing, etc. plus your
Fine Cuisine The Phi Coordinator of Graduate : Students Credit Group '
taff Studies West 452A : A-1 reference will be on
sports sta Case Western Reserve file to help you obtain t
‘ IN AN ATMOSPHERE SUPREME University School other credit cards. So i
i ve ‘8 Of qua ee
|] sreans © SEAFOOD + CHICKEN wishes everyone of Medicine B send in your $5 catalor OU
GREEK & ITALIAN SPECIALTIES 2119 Abington Road B deposit now. (refundable Sherry and Angie
4163-3812 Cleveland, Ohio 44106 ;
1 JMO B with your first order) i he elc ‘ou to
ae ian. vente luck on 216-368-3347 i i would like to welcome you t¢
Cloeed on Mowtuy
SOPLRRL B estabish your credit Today! i
E09) HER WN their exams * 100% oT oe eam i oS}, SJ; .
Chee acer#o 37.8. MAIN LEXUNGTON, VA. i oo uncicbe oe ' ear wning
i
i &
| §
i
i
i

463-1145

   

“ai

 

 

  
     
   
   
      

SHOPPING EASY!

Come to Hunter & Huntress and chose from our fantastic selection
of sporting gifts, turquoise jewelry, fishing and hunting equipment,
cowboy boots, and lots, lots more!

GREAT SELECTION - GREAT PRICES
FREE GIFT WRAP FOR STUDENTS
WE SHIP!

i 18 E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-1800 5 ei

Mon.-Thurs. 10-5, Fri. 10-5:30

\? Sat. 10-4
™ & jo wpe: Sunday 1-4 through =e .

Oper
+) es

‘
i OI LE: RR AIT ernment! ——

Alnin-@runis
Christmas Gift Ideas

Duck Head Pants

Sero Shirts

Formal Wear

Woolrich Chamois & Flannel Shirts
Ragg Socks

a

     

Bass & Walkover Shoes
Christmas Underwear

W&L Belts, Ties, Blazer Buttons
Cotton Sweaters

Turtlenecks

Eel Skin & Alligator Belts
Nautica & Woolrich Outerwear
Ceramics For Sale

       
    
 
 

 

 

  
     

THIS WEEKS SPECIAL
Long Sleeve Sport Shirts 20% Off

FREE GIFT WRAPPING

MasterCard

 

 

 
     

 

   

      

 

Choice

 

 

Student Charge

 

 
:BACK PAGE

W&L set for Christmas Weekend

 

Fleshtones

Staff Report

 

 

Since May of 1976, the Fleshtones
have been the purveyors of authentic,
home-made, rave-up, rock'n'roll
sounds. Formed in the bedroom bor-
ough of Queens, home and birthplace
of the rock‘n’roll revolution in the
mid 70's (which boasts such other lu-
minaries as members of The Dicta-
tors, Ramones, and New York Dolls),
the Fleshtones have created a reputa-
tion for uproarious live performances
as well as sought after, innovative col-
lector-item type LP’s. They've estab-
lished a world-wide presence and are
considered by the international rock
press to be one of America’s most im-
portant and influential bands.

Remarkably the band has changed
‘very little since its formation. The
major changes were the addition of
drummer Bill Milhizer in 1980 (taking
the place of Lenny Calderone Il) and
the recent departure of original bassist

Jan Marek Pakulski in the fall of *86.
Though the band was saddened (but
not weakened) by Marek’s choice to
pursue his other career options, his
place is now ably filled by the equally

University ensembles

headine

slender and tall Robert Warren. A
native of Georgia by way of the Lower
Side, Robert can occasionally still be
seen drawing long cool ones behind
the bar of the infamous King Tut's
Wah Wah Hut on Avenue A in NYC.
Another moonlighting Fleshtone, the
charming and vivacious frontman,
Peter Zaremba can be seen monthly
on MTV, hosting the award winning
show, ‘‘The Cutting Edge.”’

The new LP ‘‘Fleshtones Vs. Reali-
ty’’ on Embargo Records, long
awaited and eagerly anticipated, more
than fulfills any expectations that have
developed over the past 3 years. The
new record gives an indication of the
breadth of the Fleshtones writing abil-
ity and provides a much clearer idea
of the band’s completely honorable
motives. Self-produced with James A.
Ba.., this album exhibits production
values that anyone from the diehard
garage/psychedelia fan to the most
discerning radio programmer can ap-
preciate.

If you cut to the core of the Flesh-
tones you'll find that they stand for
FUN, TRUTH & TRADITION in
rock'n'roll, which, after all, are inse-
parable.

to present ‘Messiah’

 

Staff Report

 

The choruses of Washington and
Lee University will present Handel’s
‘*Messiah’’ Tuesday, Dec. 6, at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel. The concert is
open to the public.

The 90-member chorus, together
with student soloists, will sing the
Christmas portion of the ‘‘Messiah,”’
along with the famous Hallelujah
chorus. Soprano soloists are Michelle
Brockman ‘89, Dallas Hagewood ‘90
and Cathy Tiernan ’89; alto solists are
,Courtney Harpold °89 and Mar-
organists Alan Heinrich ’89 and Cathy
Williams *90.
and bass soloists are Chris Callas ‘89

and Michael Tuggle, °89.

The chorus will be conducted by
Gordon Spice and accompanied by
organists Alan Heinrich ‘89 and Cathy
Williams‘90.

In addition to the ‘‘Messiah,’’ each
of the university choral ensembles will
sing two Christmas selections. The
University Glee Club will sing ‘Mary
had a Baby”’ and ‘‘Still, Still, Still.”’
The University Chorus will present
“Praise the Name of God with a
Song’’ and ‘‘Ideo Gloria in Excelsis

The Women’s Chorus, which is
conducted by Thomas W. Forrest,
will sing ‘‘Laudamus Te’’ From Vi-
valdi’s ‘‘Gloria,’’ and ‘‘Candle
Carol.”’

 

Winter Hours will open

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

They have been likened to R.E.M.,
but said to be better. They have been
likened to The Church on certain
songs, but better. One critic in Con-
trast even said, ‘‘...these guys can
pick up where Murmur left off and
make you forget you’ve ever heard
another jangle in your life.’’ Welcome
to the music of Winter Hours.

For any of you who haven't heard
of Winter Hours before now, don’t
worry. You'll be hearing lots from
them in the future. With only two EPs
(Churches, Wait Till the Morning) and
a 12-inch (The Confessional) to their
credit before 1987, they finally hit the
mainstream in January of that year
with Leaving Time, and LP that made
it up to at last number eight on the
College Albums chart in Rolling
Stone.

Winter Hours, comprised of Joseph
Marques on lead vocals, Bob Messing
on bass, Bob Perry and Michael Car-
lucci on guitar and John Albanese on
drums, seem to able to play it all.
‘The Confessional’’ and ‘“‘We Can
Only Win’’ hit hard while *‘Have You
Ever Loved a Woman’’ kicks back
into the blues of Derek and the Do-
minoes. ‘‘Ten Minutes’’ is acoustical-

The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1988

ly new and improved from its debut on
The Confessional in 1986 and ‘*Wait-
ing for the Thunder’’ rocks loud and
clear while ‘‘If I Could Make You
Hear Me”’ bursts with energy. While
musically versatile, Winter Hours re-
tains and never loses touch with their
folky sound.

How do the guys in Winter Hours
feel about all of this?

‘Right now, we're kind of at a
midpoint for us, where we're not
completely unknown but we’re not
Bon Jovi either,’’ (the band’s from
New Jersey) said Marques in a May
28, 1987 Connecticut newspaper arti-
cle. ‘‘So our writing and shows reflect
that in that we’re still learning and as-
similating all these new experiences.”

Regardless of what they are still
learning, you can bet that tomorrow
night's concert will be well worth at-
tending and not one you can dare miss
if you are a fan of rock music. In addi-
tion to their own repertoire, the band
is notorious for playing excellent
covers of The Hollies, Patti Smith and
Bob Dylan including ‘‘All Along the
Watch Tower,’’ a song that is sure to
regain popularity after its inclusion in
U2’s album and film U2: Rattle and
Hum.

Don’t miss Winter Hours tomorrow
night; a band on the cutting edge of
having New Jersey saying Bruce who?

It's hard to believe that Christmas is almost here and that the anxieties {

Friday, December 2
Law School classes end.
3:30 p.m.—MATHEMATICS COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Oscillations in Min-
imization Problems,’’ Robert C. Rogers ‘79, Virginia Polytechnic Insti
tute and State University. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3
p.m. in Room 21, Public invited.
8 p.m.—PLAY: ‘‘No Exit,’’ by Jean-Paul Sartre. Boiler Room
Theatre. For reservations, call theatre office, 463- 8637.
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: My Life as a Dog(Sweden, 1985). Class-
room ‘*A,’’ Lewis Hall.
8 p.m.—FAIR CONCERT: ‘‘Messiah’”’ Sing Along. Lexington Presby-
terian Church.

Saturday, December 3

Law School Reading Days Begin.
8 p.m.—PLAY: ‘‘No Exit,”’
Theatre.
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: My Life as a Dog(Sweden, 1985). Class-
room *‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.

by Jean-Paul Sartre. Boiler Room

Sunday, December 4
Hanukkah. 7),
2:30 p.m.—ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: “Mr. §
Pickwick’s Stories for a Christmas Evening.’’ Lexington High School. ; ?
8 p.m.—PLAY: ‘‘No Exit,” by Jean-Paul Sartre. Boiler Room 44},
Theatre. v

Monday, December 5
4:30 p.m.—FACULTY MEETING: Northern Auditorium.
7 p.m.—GALLERY RECEPTION/LECTURE: Ted Hirsch, artist. du-
Pont Gallery. Public invited.
7 p.m.—STRESS MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP: Dr. Jane Horton-

Marcella, university physician. Gaines Hall Gatehouse. (Open to all ;

members of the W&L community.)
7 p.m.—Theatre Auditions for ‘‘Arden of Feversham.’’ University
Theatre.
8 p.m.—TELFORD THEATRE: Kyozo Kato, political consular with
the Japanese Embassy. Northern Auditorium, University Library. Pub-
lic invited.
Tuesday, December 6

7 p.m.—Theatre Auditions for ‘‘Arden of Feversham.’’ University
Theatre.
8 p.m.—W&L CHRISTMAS CHORAL CONCERT: Handel’s ‘‘Mes-
siah.’’ Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Wednesday, December 7
Law School Reading Days End.
8 a.m.—ECUMENICAL PRAYER SERVICE: Lee Chapel. Public in-
vited.
7 p.m.—WOMEN’S SWIMMING: Generals vs. Sweet Briar. Twom-

al

7%
»

rt

a

-

|

Siig’

eit

7 of final exams are right around the corner. Never fret though; the SAB }
AY has again come to our rescue with another great night of music at the }
P Student Activities Pavilion. Tomorrow night at 9 p.m. The Fleshtones {®&

$4 and Winter Hours will ease your end of the term blues with three hours @&
f of heart pounding music hailed by Rolling Stone, The Washington Post
and The Duckberg Times. Hey, how can you argue with that? The Ring-
tum Phi would like to wish everyone a happy and safe Christmas week-

bly Pool.

7 p.m.—STRESS MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP: Dr. Robert Pickral,
university physician. Room 109, University Center. (Open to all mem- “4,
bers of the W&L community.)
7 p.m.—Theatre Auditions for ‘‘Arden of Feversham.’’ University ,
Theatre.

 

audiotronics

VIRGINIA'’S STEREO SPECIALIST

YAMAHA ALPINE
DENON BOSTON
B&O CcWD

KEF SONANCE
SIGNET B&K
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

Have your Pappagallo
Christmas Gifts
Wrapped and Mailed

FREE

 

23 N. Main St.

 

 

 

 

 

   

ee

Hours: 11-5

SS ee ee ee ee ee ee eee

Rockbridge Music

Christmas Special
Soft Shell Guitar Cases: Regular $33.95, Now $25.95!

Hard Shell Cases: Reg. $90 to $140, Now $73 to $100!

Layaways Available!
Steve Vai, Guns ‘n’ Roses & many other videos for sale or rent!
205 N. Main St.

i

463-5455

ee ee ee ee ee ee

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ¢Perfumes

Charge Accounts

e Free Delivery

W&L Bookstore

Moonlight Madness
Sale

Thursday, Dec., 1 7-10 p.m.

20% Off of practically everything

(exceptions: Sundries, Tapes, CD’s, Textbooks)

 

, end, and further Happy Holidays.

 

 

WordPerfect 4.2 and 5.0
Ventura Desktop Publishing
Laser Printout from 5-1/4"’ disks

 

TERM PAPERS, COVER LETTERS,
RESUMES

ONE DAY OR NEXT DAY SERVICE
KEPT ON FILE FOR FUTURE USE

WE BILL HOME
Deavers Alley Business Services

203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

7:30 p.m.—BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Bridgewater College. War-
ner Center.

Thursday, December 8
Law School Examinations Begin.
7:30 p.m.—W&L CHRISTMAS CANDLELIGHT SERVICE:
R.E.Lee Episcopal Church. Public invited.

 

 

31S. Main St., Lexington

  

 

Telephone: (703) 463-9455

 

   

463-9588

 

 

   

EOL OEE EOE OO

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, Va. 24450

Women students interested in hearing

presentations by
FIVE NATIONAL _ SORORITIES

Date

January 4

January 5

January 6

Time
8-5 and 7-9 p.m.
3-5 p.m.
8-5 and 7-9 p.m.

All presentations will be held in
Northen Auditorium
University Library

 

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

 

 

 

COURTESY

.. DOUG TURRELL ’87

Office: 261-2112
Home: 463-1952

For all of your automotive needs,

seeme at COURTESY FORD
MERCURY in Buena Vista.

       
   

 
  

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5

Gettier’s Gifts
CARDS, POSTERS & GIFTS

Route 60 W. across from Keydet General
Plenty of Parking

Open M-S 10-6

463-3355

 
 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones |

=

 

703/463-2022 |'
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St. |.
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450 |,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Enjoy satellite T.V. and a complete menu including

beer as you bowl and let AccuScore do all the work!

12 Noon-Midnight Monday-Thursday
Saturday 12 p.m.-1 a.m.
Fridays Open Until 2 a.m.
Sunday Noon-Midnight

 

Midnight Bowl Special
11:30-2 a.m. Fridays
Music and Prizes

 

 

 

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695
