 

By Clint Wheelock
Staff Reporter

 

Capturing the office of Interfraternity Council Presi-
dent was current Phi Gamma Delta house president
Kevin Nash, who narrowly defeated David Gildea, a
member of Beta Theta Pi and a junior justice on the IFC
Judicial Board.

Nash’s campaign speech concerned the restoration of
some of the IFC autonomy and improved relations with
the university and the community.

Nash said, ‘“We can’t sit back and let the administra-
tion run all over us.”’

He also said his experience at the recently renovated
Fiji house will help the IFC and fraternities move into the
new ‘‘Fraternity Renaissance’’ era much easier, since
Fiji already has many of the things (such as a fully-
renovated structure and a house mother or ‘‘resident
manager’’, which Renaissance guidelines require) that
the other houses will soon see.

r

Nash said of the Renaissance program, ‘‘It’s a great
opportunity for every house on campus.”’

Candidates for vice-president were Pi Kappa Phi
member Hunt Niedringhaus, also a junior justice, and
IFC representative Warren Holland of Phi Delta Theta.

Niedringhaus defeated Holland on a campaign plat-
form dealing primarily with rush, which is the main
responsibility of the IFC vice-president.

He also said a successful Greek Week should be run by
the entire fraternal body, rather than rotating the respon-
sibility among various houses each year. He stressed the
importance of a thoroughly planned rush in order to elim-
inate last-minute problems.

Gordon DeKuyper of Beta Theta Pi defeated his three
opponents, Mike Skarda (Phi Kappa Psi), Karsten Amlie
(Sigma Chi) and Bill Tunner (Pi Kappa Alpha) for the of-
fice of IFC secretary without a run-off election. The new
IFC treasurer is Matt Murphy (Phi Kappa Psi), who was
chosen over Brooks Pettus (Phi Kappa Sigma) and Tom
Hatcher (Phi Delta Theta).

The senior justice position on the IFC Judicial Board
went to Scott T evitt (Phi Kappa Sigma), «ho heat Brad

Cannon (Pi Kappa Alpha). The two junior justice spots
went to Goodloe Lewis (Kappa Sigma) and Les Lewis
(Sigma Alpha Epsilon). The two defeated Mike Whorton
(Kappa Alpha), Allen Ferguson (Phi Kappa Sigma),
Jason Parker (Sigma Phi Epsilon) and John Phoenix (Phi
Delta Theta).

Associate Dean of Students Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
said he was very pleased with the way this year’s elec-
tions went. He said all the candidates made good points
in their speeches and each house put forth its best can-
didates.

Issuing his congratulations to all of the new officers,
who will take office at the beginning of spring term, he
said the overall tone of the election was the best in the
three years he has served as Greek advisor.

Echoing the general sentiment of all the candidates,
IFC President Ross Singletary said he felt the new body
was ‘‘ready for a landmark year in relations with the uni-
versity.” s

He added, ‘‘This year’s board has been more active
and given me a lot of support in helping to voice the

‘Nash defeats Gildea for IFC President

students’ and fraternities’ opinions’ than those in the
past.

‘We've held the line this year,’’ Singletary said, ‘‘and
I hope that next year’s board can mark strides in regain-
ing general student autonomy”’ in an attempt to prevent
the university from ‘‘tightening the vise grip’’ on the
W&L Greek system.

Singletary said some major issues that next year’s IFC
will have to face are liability, continued progress in
community relations and philanthropic projects, a further
strengthening of fraternity-police relations and the
upholding of a ‘better attitude toward hazing’’ that the
IFC has helped establish within the fraternities this year.

Overall, Singletary said he was very pleased with this
year’s progress and is confident of the new officers and
the IFC’s future.

At least four of the newly-elected officers will travel to
Atlanta for the Feb. 16-19 Southeastern Interfraternity
Conference, where they will begin to face the important
issues they must deal with beginning in spring term and
continuing into the 1989-90 school year.

 

VOLUME 88, NO. 15

 

Stay tuned for FD news

in supplement after break.

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Closet performers get set

for Lip Sync!

he Kin

 

  
  
 

See page 4

  

 

 

-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Canfield gets 400th win

  
 
 

See page 5

  

FEBRUARY 9, 1989

 

Vandals

 

By Pat Lopes
Staff Reporter

Lexington police have connected
local juveniles to the shoplifting of
more than 100 music tapes from the
W&L Bookstore last summer and the
disappearance of personal belongings
from carrels in the undergraduate
library last fall, but have no leads yet
in the January incident of vandalism
and theft on campus and in town.

A group of juveniles confessed in
November and December to stealing
the tapes and personal belongings, ac-
cording to Lexington Police Sgt.
Torben Pedersen. One juvenile has
been convicted of larceny and will pay
restitution for the tapes. Trial of two
other juveniles is currently being con-
sidered.

Efforts to recover the stolen proper-
ty have been hampered by a network
of recipients, Pedersen said. Stolen
property was passed from the person
who stole the items to friends, who in
turn passed the items to other people.

A camera, three calculators and a
backpack have been recovered. Lost
property reports completed by
students are being matched with prop-
erty recovered from the juveniles.
One calculator has been returned to a
WA&L student.

In an unrelated case, a wave of van-
dalism and thefts that washed over
W&L and Lexington between Jan. 7
and 8 is also being investigated by
Lexington police. Police Chief Bruce
Beard said that because similar van-
dalism has not occurred since that
weekend, the vandals probably were
passing through Lexington and are not
local residents.

White Book
iS an issue
for the EC

By Genienne Mongno
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

 

The Executive Committee discus-
sed several proposed amendments to
the White Book Monday night that
address the procedure for selecting
the chairperson of a student body
hearing.

Currently, the White Book says the
president of the Student Bar Associa-
tion (SBA) serves as the chairperson
for a student body hearing. However,
since the SBA president is elected by
law students and not the entire student
body, several EC members asked last
week if the selection process should
be changed.

The third-year Law representative,
Dave Nave, said he believed the
chairperson should continue to be the
SBA president. But, he suggested a
clause be written into the White Book
that states if problems arise with the
chairperson, he or she can be

Secu

 

baffle

—

 

   

rity

 

 

Vandals scrawled these letters on various
buildings on campus and In town. The letters

The initials VES and DSR were
scrawled in various locations on the
W&L campus and in town. VES are
the initials of Virginia Episcopal
School, but police have no proof of a
link between that school and the van-
dalism. No other organizations or
people have yet been linked to the in-
itials.

According to W&L Proctor Charles
‘“‘Murph’’ Murray, the office and
desks of secretaries Flora Day and
Lyn Hammett in the Commerce
School were opened, cash was taken
and keys normally stored inside the
desks were used to open and empty the
Commerce School library copy
machine coinbox.

 

 

Dave Nave

changed.

The proposed revisions, which
were drawn up by EC member Dan
DuPre and second-year law student
John Falk, change the wording of
several sentences in Section one of
the White Book under ‘‘Procedure for
a Student Body Hearing.’

The revisions make it clear that
both the EC and the accused party
have the right to question the compe-
tency of the chair, but both parties
must approve before the chair can be
substituted, according to Falk.

The revisions also state that the re-
placement for the chair will be
someone chosen from the SBA Board
of Governors whom both parties find
mutually acceptable. But, no member
of the SBA Board of Governors will

J Please See EC page 2

Correction

Last week’s Phi stated that next year’s tuition
would increase by 2 percent. It should have said 13
percent. The Phi regrets this error.

 

In addition, Murray said, two
separate envelopes, containing $140
and $50 in cash, were taken from the
desk of secretary Lois Dickerson in
Tucker Hall. The letters VES and
DSR were written in chalk on
blackboards in Tucker, and were also
etched in the office door of Charles
Boggs on the third floor of Newcomb
Hall. Fire extinguishers were set off
in Newcomb and Robinson halls.

Other buildings targeted included
the library, where the copy machine
on the second lower level was pried
open, and the Military Science
building, where the thieves took Sgt.
Willie Williams’ field jacket, Maj.
Kenneth Talley’s gloves and helmet

Photo by: JuLee Messerich/The Ring-tum Phi

were also written on blackboards and etched
on office doors in Tucker and Newcomb halls.

liner, two fire extinguishers and two
university phones.

In town, the vandals left their mark
in black paint inside the post office
and outside Wadell School and the
building where the Subway was
formerly located. According to Beard,
local residents are not alarmed by the
vandal’s work.

**T think if it was an everyday thing
people would be concerned,’’ said
Chief Beard.

But the arrest of the juveniles and
the widespread mischief of the vandals
should concern the W&L community,
according to Beard. Students take ad-
vantage of the atmosphere of. trust
made possible by the honor system,

leaving valuables unsecured on cam-
pus.
‘*The whole school is set up for the
honor system, which is fine as long as
only students utilize the facilities,’’
said Pedersen. Unfortunately, people
outside of the university community
also take advantage of the atmosphere
of trust, with dishonorable intentions.

Murray also expressed particular
concern about the computer labs on
campus and the amount of equipment
left in them overnight.

Pedersen said he suggested that the

" Bookstore install a convex security

mirror. A convex mirror would
enable bookstore personnel to watch
blind spots created by a large number
of bookcases crowded into a small
area. However, students may feel
their honor is being questioned by a
mirror, pointed out Bookstore
Manager Tidge Roller.

“I would be reluctant to change
what I feel was a great atmosphere in
here. It’s a sticky situation. If the
students wouldn’t feel it’s a slam at
them, I would love to be able to do
it,’’ Roller said.

“*T would love to know how the EC
would feel,’’ she continued.

With this in mind, Pedersen rec-
ommends that ‘‘all the students be less
trusting, that they take greater care at
securing their property’’ on the cam-
pus as well as in cars, houses, fraterni-
ty houses and apartments.

Pedersen also recommends that
students note strangers on campus
who do not part appear to be part of
the university community.

‘*What we would like to have is the
students to be on the lookout for out of
place people so that we have
something to work on, some suspects
to look out for,’’ Pedersen said.

Phi Beta
Kappa list
is updated

From Staff Reports

 

Thirty-four Washington and Lee
University undergraduates and two
1988 graduates of W&L have been
elected into membership in W&L’s
Gamma of Virginia chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa. In addition to the student
initiates, the W&L chapter has elected
three honorary members.

The new members will be formally
initiated into the national fraternity on
March 15 when the W&L chapter
holds its annual Phi Beta Kappa con-
vocation.

The three honorary initiates are
John W. Elrod, vice president of aca-
demic affairs, dean of the College and
professor of philosophy at W&L;
William Hurt Sledge, a 1967 W&L
graduate and professor of philosophy
at the Yale School of Medicine; and
Hans C. von Baeyer, professor of
physics at The College of William and
Mary. von Baeyer will be the prin-
cipal speaker for the convocation.

Phi Beta Kappa was installed at
Washington and Lee in 1911 and an-
nually elects a limited number of
students of outstanding character and
superior academic records.

The students elected to membership
in Phi Beta Kappa are:

JUNIORS: Susan Elizabeth Bienert
of Luthorville, Md.; Damon Vincent
Fensterman of Lynchburg; Billie
Dallas Hagewood of Franklin, Tenn.;

C) Please See PBK page 4

New restaurant is Down Under the street

 

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

{the building] somehow,’’ he said, so he and his

 

Sitting amid paint cans and various building
supplies, Dr. Richard R. Hull took a break from
his work to talk about his new restaurant, Down

Under, scheduled to open March 1.

Down Under replaces Subway, which was
closed down last November by the Alcoholic

Beverage Control Board.

Since November, Hull said, four people had
considered opening a restaurant. ‘‘We were
backed into a comer and had to get rent out of it

cided to try it themselves,

thing with it,’’ Hull said.

business partner, Col. Thomas A. Edwards, de-

Neither of the two has experience in the restau-
rant business, but they just decided, why not? ‘‘It’s
down under the street and we needed to do some-

In searching for a name, Hull knew he couldn’t
call the restaraunt Subway because of the national
chain of Subway sandwich shops.

Hull got the name and motif idea, Down Under,
after traveling to Australia last year with a troup of
Lexington Boy Scouts, They attended the World

Jamboree with groups comparable to Boy Scouts
from 135 countries.

Hull and Edwards have done extensive clean-

ing, painting and reconstruction in the restaurant
themselves. They have made numerous wood cuts
of the Australian continent, kangaroos and koala

bears to decorate the walls.

Down Under will feature subs and sandwiches,
as well as soft drinks and beer, for lunch and din-
ner seven days a week. The new restaraunt will
also have table service rather than self-service.
Hull also plans to have a wide-screen television, a
six-speaker stereo and video games.

Low turnout at IFC’s $450 date rape seminar

By Nick Thompson
Staff Reporter

 

Assoc. Dean of Students Anne C,
Schroer-Lamont said she was dis-
appointed at the number of admin-
istrators and fraternity members who
attended a televised conference on
acquaintance/date rape shown in Nor-
then Auditorium last Thursday after-
noon.

About 50 people came to the three-
hour seminar which was sponsored by
the Washington and Lee Interfraterni-
ty Council for $450.

Schroer-Lamont said 35 women
from W&L and the surrounding
womens’ colleges have reported inci-
dents of acquaintance rape since the

fall of 1985. In the past year, 12 of the
137 women at the law school have
experienced acquaintance rape,
Schroer-Lamont said.

According to Dr. Claire Walsh, di-
rector of the Sexual Assault Recovery
Service at the University of Florida,
‘One out of three women will be a
victim of rape and there is a 100 per-
cent chance that every man will en-
counter acquaintance rape, meaning
that someone he cares about will be
raped.”’

The program began with four pos-
sible date 1 pe situations followed by
a discussion of the audience’s re-
sponse to the question, ‘‘Did a rape
occur?’’

According to Dr. Barry Burkhart,
professor of psychology at Aubum

University, ‘‘{If somebody is har-
med], then a rape has been commit-
ted.’’ Burkhart said although this
criteria for defining rape ‘‘extends the
law a bit,’’ it helps clarify what is
considered ‘‘not good conduct.”’

He said the reality of acquaintance
rape must be realized by students and
administrators before the problem can
be controlled.

W&L freshmen and their dorm
counselors will be required to attend
an acquaintance rape program during
the week of Feb. 20. Schroer-Lamont
said she expects 12 to 20 girls will
come forward as acquaintance rape
victims following the freshman pro-
gram.

Most of the panelists stressed
several important points during the

teleconference such as:

*It is not the woman’s fault that she
was raped, Many women never report
acquaintance rape or seek counseling
because they believe that they caused
it to happen.

*Go to an emergency room or a

rape crisis Clinic for immediate medi-
cal attention. Rape victims are usually
not protected against venereal
diseases or pregnancy because con-
doms are rarely used in a acquain-
tance rape situation.

*Don’t take a shower before getting
a medical examination. This will ena-
ble doctors to provide the police with
medical evidence of a rape if a
woman decides to take her case to
court.
 

 

 

OPINION

Problems for
the Phi staff

Want a copy of the Phi? Well, if you answered yes to
that question, you had better be in the University Center
at 5 p.m. each Thursday to be sure you get one.

They seem to be a pretty hot item. I mean, they are
free. And, hell, you can probably fit 15-20 in your back-
pack. You could decorate the inside of your trash can
with the leftovers after you’ve read one. Wait, send some
pledges to take a bundle of 150 so everyone in the frater-
nity house can choose exactly which copy he would like
to read.

Maybe your goal is to be the only member of the W&L
community to be able to get a copy of the Phi.

Or, rather than having to walk to the library or the Uni-
versity Center, you could simply snag one out of some
professor’s mailbox before class, then the professor could
blame it on the Phi Circulation Manager for not getting a
paper.

If you haven’t guessed yet, there is a circulation prob-
lem because people are taking too many newspapers. This
problem is not a new one, by any means. It has been ad-
dressed by many Phi staffs prior to this one. Unfortun-
ately, it is our subscribers (who paid $25 to have each is-
sue mailed to them) who have suffered and continue to
suffer.

When several people take four or five papers, and each
person only reads one, then (for you economics buffs) the
supply goes down while the demand remains the same.
The question arises - What can be done? Since the papers
are free, we cannot increase the price to meet the demand.
We must resort to other means. For one, we are increasing
the number of issues delivered each week. The increase in
the number of issues we receive will not help if you in-
crease the number of issues you take each week to add to
your circular file (trash can).

We are asking that you take only as many issues as you
plan on reading, and try to restrain from snagging any
from a professor’s mailbox.

Thank you, and Merry Washington Holiday!

 

--NKW

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1989

 

 

 

 

 

 

o more ports ! :

T nick batltsne =
Ths is my til
Covel Has month

/

  
  

Likely presidents and their policies

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

It seems like just yesterday George
Bush and Michael Dukakis were in a
neck and neck battle for the privilege
of carving their initials into White
House furniture and picking up dates
in a presidential limousine with bullet
proof windows and a stocked bar. Of
course, Dukakis’s election bid was
ruined after Senator Joe McCarthy III
revealed records proving that Dukakis
checked out the Comminist Manifesto
from the Boston Public Library in the
eighth-grade—a sure sign of commu-
nist tendencies.

Like most people with too much

free time on their hands I’ve spent a!
lot of time imagining what it would be
like if someone besides Bush had been
elected. But unlike most people with a
lot of free time on their hands, not
only do I think about these things, I
write about them. Here is my
reconstruction of ideas and policies of
some likely presidential candidates.

President Bob Marley (famous
reggae singer) and his political goals:

1) Legalize marijuana;

2) Turn the White House into a
Rastafarian temple;

3) Make ‘‘Buffalo Soldier’’ the new
National Anthem,

4) Eliminate the government,

’ 5) Bring family to America.

President Mike Tyson and _ his
comments after punching out Gor-
bachev in the first round of the summit
talks: ‘‘I don’t take s--t from some

four eyed feather weight with a mole
on his bald head.’’

President Homer (famous blind poet
from ancient Greece) at his inaugura-
tion: ‘Now that I’m elected I promise
there won’t be another Trojan War.
Read my lips: No Trojan War.’’

President Larry Flint (Editor of
Hustler Magazine) on the subject of
education: ‘‘Let’s take pornography to
the schools. It belongs there because
students will pay attention to their
teachers if they find the subject matter
stimulating and friends, Algebra just
don’t cut it.””

President June Cleaver (Leave it to
Beaver) commenting on an unfriendly
senator: “Senator Barnyard reminds
me of Eddie’ Haskell. Why I re-
member once Eddie stole the Beaver’s
best marble and blamed it on Wally.”’

(Miami drug dealer) on international

commerce: ‘‘We must stop govern- ,

‘ment interference in the free market.
All international trading should be |
deregulated.”’

Presidents Moe, Larry, and Curly
(the Three Stooges) after starting a pie
fight at the Yugoslavian embassy: No
comment

President David Letterman and his »

budget goals: ‘‘Let’s take all of the
country’s tax money and spend it on
designing new and improved ‘Stupid
Pet Tricks,’ °’
I remind readers to take this article -

Seriously because there is a good :

chance that many of the people I nam-

ed (especially Mrs. Cleaver) will |
someday become the President of the .

United States.- Special not for skep-
tical readers: I was not using drugs at

 

 

NEWS STAFF

Teb-BQMONG cc ccicessceccccassssusacnsesscacenssecssesssesissnesescsecesessededeccevens Elizabeth Parkins

Heidi Read

Nancy Whalen

Assignment Editor .......:::0ccceceseeeeeeeeseenserereserrsceaseeeeneeesneneeeneeesens Eleanor Nelson

Sports Editor ......cccccccsssseeessceseeesensessevsestsenesssenseeeneesseensesseesseeseessens Mike Shady

Entertainment Editor ..........cccccceeeeeceeerseseeessesneseseneneeeeeeeenneeeeeeenns Michael Tuggle

Layout Editor .........cccssseeeesesessneeeeeeeenseennaeeneeenensessesesenenenneneseees Brooke Jarabek

Photo Editors ...........ccsesecceccssssscsccsceseeneceressseccesscccensensencnnsessnseens Chery! Barrett

JuLee Messerich

Beth Freund

Copy Editor .......ccccccsssseseesssrseseeseesceecenennseesssensaeeensensuensenenaseeaneres Kelly Putney
OPINION PAGE STAFF

Editorial Page Editor ...........cccccsececerseeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeseeseseeeeeeeeneeeneeneees Pamela Kelley

Cartoonists ............csssecsssccssssscccccceecenesesesesseresessesccescscsoossoneceees Stephen Ingram

evosoeceneveresssesssscesecesesooveussessssacssscsccecucoossssssscesssonsooorosoaooosseessons Jeff Woodland

BUSINESS STAFF

Business Manager .........0ccccssccssescceesssscccccseseccesersnssssenesecesesees Christie Champlin
Assistant Business Manager ........ccsccsrrsssessersscessccesenescesnneeeceesenenesooees Fred Turpin
Advertising Mamager .........sssessssseseeeeseeeeeeeesseseensennenseeseceesoasessensosnes Anne Dysart
Circulation Manager ...........ccscscccssssesssnsececesnssecceseseenesseeesssssesssesenss Karl Hanson

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year
at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to
The Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

President Hiraldo ‘‘Cocaine’’ Diez _ the time that I wrote this article.

Key athletes oppose requirements

Due to an Editorial Page space problem last
week, all but one of the names signed to this letter
were omitted. We have decided to reprint the
letter with the signatures. We apologize.

An Open Letter to the Washington and Lee Com-
munity:

Washington and Lee University prides itself on
the great amount of self-government that its
students are given. In light of this fact, it is impor-
tant that the University community be informed of
a proposed change in the physical education grad-
uation requirement.

As part of a campus-wide self-study, a five per-
son committee consisting of Athletic Department
personnel decided that the physical education re-
quirement, specifically in reference to inter-
collegiate athletes, should be changed. They felt
that a new policy could better reflect the diverse,
liberal arts focus of the University.

In order to ‘‘allow’’ a more diverse exposure to
the world of physical fitness and recreation, the
committee suggests that the maximum fraction of
a credit hour allowed for each varsity sport a stu-
dent participates in would be reduced from two-
fifths to one-fifth. This change would mean that
two, three, or even four years of varsity participa-

tion would garner the W&L student- athlete a-

paltry 1/5th credit, leaving four more P.E. classes
needed for graduation.

This move, at a school that has a long and rich
athletic tradition, as well as a 25% rate of inter-
collegiate athletic participation among its current
student body, would be a travesty. This proposed
policy change not only greatly limits the student-
athlete in his choice of when not to enroll in non-
varsity P.E. classes, it also fails to recognize the
diverse gains made from intercollegiate-level
training and competition.

The student-athlete at W&L is the student who
is internally motivated to participate in athletics.
He or she is the person who will be involved in

physical activity for the rest of their life. These
young adults have established, through years of
dedication and self-motivation, the desire to stay
physically fit, and to participate in a wide spec-
trum of invigorating activities.

These student-athletes, who spend many hours
each week involved in a variety of physical ac-
tivities, do not need to be ‘‘allowed’’ to explore
the variety of the school’s offerings. The liberal
arts emphasis of W&L is embodied in the student-
athlete. The Athletic Department’s goal of a stu-
dent body that is well-versed in motor skills and

‘fitness, rules and strategy, and good sportsman-

ship, has already been ingrained in the student-
athlete.

We, the undersigned student-athletes, as well as
other members of the W&L community, support
an alternative solution that would serve not only
the student-athlete, but also benefit the general
student, and the Athletic Department itself:

1) Allow 1/Sth a credit for the first season of
each varsity sport in which the student-athlete par-
ticipates. (Each student would still need to accu-
mulate 5/Sths cr. hr.)

2) For each subsequent season, in each sport,
give the student-athlete one credit hour of graded
participation, up to a total of nine credits. (8 cr.
hrs. + 5/Scr. hr. = 9 cr. hrs.)

The W&L student participates in intercollegiate
athletics for many reasons, primarily because they
want to. The beneficial growing experiences that
the student-athlete receives adds a whole new
dimension to his or her education. The positive
exposure the University receives through their
success is as valuable to W&L as the research,
writing, and performances done in other areas.

If the University feels so strongly that physical
education is important to a liberal arts education
that it makes frequent participation a requirement,
then the University should accord the Department
of Athletics equal status with the rest of the cam-
pus.

It is time that the student-athlete, as well as the

Athletic Department’s physical education offer-
ings, be given the credits they deserve. The Uni-
versity should assemble a group, comprised ot
students, student-athletes, and faculty members,
to discuss this proposal. More importantly the
administration should pay attention to what the
students, and the University community, feel is
best for the future of Washington & Lee!
Sincerely,
Stuart Sheldon
89
Martha Christian
*89 Tennis
David Dietz
*89 Water Polo
James M. Johnson III
*89 Football
George M. Loupassi
,89 Wrestling
Robert E. Matthews
’89 Tennis
Elizabeth S. Miles
89 Swimming
Mark Roberts
*89 Wrestling
C. Thomas Skeen II
*89 Football
James Urso
*89 Track
Nancy K. Whalen
89 Swimming
Lee Brading
*89 Basketball
Liz Smith
*89 Soccer
L. Joelle Jackson
°90 Soccer
Laurel V. Mattson
*89 Soccer
Christopher deMovellan
*89
Julian Phillips
*89 Football

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY WASHINGTON BREAK HOURS

E.C.

 

agreement that it is in their best inter. |

est to change the chair.
In addition to the written amend-
ments, the EC discussed the exact

 

 

Friday, Feb. 10
Close at 6 p.m.

Saturday, Feb. 11
Open 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Sunday, Feb. 12
CLOSED

 

Monday-Friday, Feb. 13-17
Open 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

Saturday, Feb. 18
Open 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Sunday, Feb. 19

Open at 12 noon and resume
regular 24-hour schedule.

 

 

(continued from page 1)

be allowed to act as both an advocate
in an honor proceeding and as chair of
a student body hearing during their
term in office.

According to Falk, the revisions do
not make any major changes in the
current procedures, but they do make
some important clarifications. He said
the revisions ensure that both the EC
and the accused party will be in

procedure used to remove a chair of
the student body hearing. It was
agreed that the procedure was not ob-
vious in the White Book, and EC
Vice President Hugh Finklestein ask-
ed DuPre and Falk to draw up an
amendment to clazify it.

The EC decided to table the discus-
sion of the amendments until Feb. 20
when it would consider further re-
visions to the proposal.
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1989

 

Parsons to oversee
Capital improvements

 

From Staff Reports

 

Frank A. Parsons, executive assis-
tant to the president of Washington
and Lee University, has been named
coordinator of capital planning at the
university.

Parsons will oversee the planning
for capital improvements such as
building, landscaping and parking, in
addition to working with architects,
planners and contractors. He will also
maintain his close link to the opera-
tions of the university in regard to
planning capital projects, the purchase
of equipment, and the review of capi-
tal budget requests.

its traditions to this new position,”’
said Lawrence W. Broomall, univer-
sity treasurer. ‘‘As an alumnus, as a
fraternity member, and as a long-time
resident of Lexington, Frank has an
appreciation of what fraternities once
were at W&L and what they can
achieve under our renaissance pro-
gram. We are fortunate to have his
knowledge and expertise.’’

A native of Clifton Forge, Parsons
received his B.S. in political science
from W&L in 1954, the same year he
joined the W&L administration as di-
rector of publicity. Since that time he
has held a number of different posi-
tions. He was named an assistant to

‘og Se eee RE EE ANAT MILE CR

Frank brings a vast knowledge of W&L, its people and its

traditions to this new position.

— Lawrence W. Broomall

Parsons will also oversee the uni-
versity’s $10 million Fraternity
Renaissance Program, scheduled. to
begin in 1990. He will serve as
manager for the program, repre-
senting the university in negotiations
with architects, construction firms,
fraternity house corporations, and the
city of Lexington. Parsons will also
serve as staff support for the pro-
gram’s steering committee.

‘‘Frank brings a vast knowledge of
Washington and Lee, its people, and

President Fred C. Cole in 1960 and
served in the same capacity for presi-
dents Robert E.R. Huntley and John
D. Wilson.

“‘Over the last 35 years I have been
asked to take on a_ variety of
assignments for the university,’’ Par-
sons said. ‘‘I can think of no greater
challenge or opportunity to achieve a
lasting impact on the university and
the community than the fraternity
renaissance program.’

W&L aids recyclers

 

By Lori Richardson
Staff Reporter

 

The Rockbridge Area Recycling Coalition behind Peebles department store
hopes to expand its new recycling facility in Lexington with help from the

Washington and Lee community.

The Buildings and Grounds staff at W&L is boosting the recycling effort by
collecting recyclable garbage from the campus, said B&G Superintendent

James Arthur.

‘“We’re going to park a vehicle behind Reid Hall one day a week to collect
and separate cardboard, newspapers and general paper to take to the center,”’
he said. Arthur said plans for a cooperative effort were finalized last week.

According to Marilyn Maisano of the recycling coalition, the W&L adminis-

tration has committed'to recycling efforts, too.

‘‘We want the offices at W&L to bring us their paper. The Buildings and
Grounds truck will-be on campus Tuesdays. The sheer velocity of the throw-

away paper at W&L could help us a lot.

‘“We have separate dumpsters at the facility marked for high-grade com-
puter paper, mixed office paper, cardboard and junk mail, tin and aluminum.”’

A paid attendant, Margaret Carol, supervises the center during the operating
hours of 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, Maisano
said. She also said several inmates from local jails work off their community
service hours by helping citizens unload their recyclables at the center, which

has been open for two months.

The current Rockbridge Area Recycling Coalition resulted when a group
from the League of Women Voters became angered by the illegal dumping of
pollutants in local water bodies, said Maisano.

She said, ‘‘We did not protest, but found an alternative instead.

‘“We felt the turn-out at the meeting showed the community was really be-

hind us.”’

The coalition raised money through grants from the city and county. Ma-
isano said the city donated about $2,000 and the county donated $7,000.

According to Maisano, the coalition leaders plan to meet with the city coun-
cil soon to plan a grand opening of the recycling center.

She said the coalition hopes to expand the number of recyclables they can
collect. If all goes well, the facility can extend its operating time to seven days

a week.

According to Arthur, the goal of the recycling program is to operate indefi-
nitely. He said the organizers hope Rockbridge County will take it over and

make it a permanent facility.

 

 

   

 

W&L students head south to sunnier skies and warmer cil-
mates In places like Cancun, the Florida Keys and the Baha-
mas. Last year senior Elizabeth Miles visited the Mayan ruins
in Cancun and she plans to return again this year.

Cadets in top 15%

 

By Hughes Melton
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s ROTC
cadets have been recognized by the
region commander for performing in
the top 15 percent of the schools in
their region last summer.

A letter from Brig. Gen. Wallace C.
Arnold to President Wilson cited the
department’s ‘‘overall caliber’’ and
the ‘‘high level of motivation’’ within
the unit.

Wilson said, ‘‘This ability to lead
other people will carry over into other
professions.”’

Five of the 15 seniors who set high
marks this summer will use these abil-
ities in civilian professions after short
training stints on active and reserve
duty in the Army.

Performance at summer camp in
Fort Bragg, N.C., between the junior
and senior years is a large factor in re-
ceiving the type duty requested (active
or reserve).

‘In my four years here, no group of
students has performed at this level of
excellence,’ said Dean of the College

John W. Elrod.

“This recognition is just one in-
dicator of the quality of the pro-
gram,’’ said Lt. Col. Joel J. Snow,
professor of Military Science.

“It reflects the excellent training
and commitment by the cadets and fa-
culty of the Mink Battalion to achiev-
ing the standard expressed by the
Cadet Command motto—‘Leadership
and Excellence.’ *’

Each year, the ROTC training pro-
gram is evaluated and this year W&L
received the highest rating among the
18 East Coast schools in its brigade.
In the regional competition with Ivy
League schools, only Princeton
received a higher rating.

‘This is an indication of the conti-
nuing quality of the program,”’ said
Snow, ‘‘characterized by exciting,
challenging and vigorous training. We
continue to share the university's ‘no-
nonsense’ commitment to teaching
and developing our students, main-
taining a learning environment em-
phasizing personal honor and integrity
and instilling in our cadets a sense of
responsibility to serve our nation.”’

W&L gets $600,000 geology grant

From Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee University is
among 12 liberal arts colleges chosen
to participate in the W.M. Keck
Foundation Faculty/Student Geology
Consortium. The W.M. Keck Foun-
dation of Los Angeles, Calif., re-
cently awarded a grant of $600,000 to
support the continuation and expan-
sion of the program over the next two
years.

In addition to W&L, participating
institutions are Ambherst College,
Beloit College, Carleton College,
Colorado College, Franklin and Mar-
shall College, Pomona College, Smith
College, Trinity University, Whitman
College, Williams College and the
College of Wooster.

The grant is designed to support
geological research of undergraduate
students and faculty and to bring
together geology students and faculty
from a number of institutions to share
their common interests.

Edgar W. Spencer, chairman of the
geology” department at W&L,

describes the exchange of ideas as ‘‘a
cross-fertilization project for schools
like W&L.”’

The W.M. Keck Foundation Con-
sortium Grant will support five
different projects during the summers
of 1989 and 1990. Each project will
run about six weeks and will be jointly
directed by faculty members trom
several of the participating schools.
Students from all 12 colleges will be
eligible to participate as field resear-
chers on the projects and will com-
plete their research when they return
to their respective campuses. In the
spring, the students and faculty will
get together for a meeting to present
papers and discuss their research pro-
jects.

The geology projects to be studied
in the summer of 1989 include the
ecology of recent and ancient shores
in Gaspe, Canada; the study of a fault
zone in Minnesota; ancient reefs in
Spain; earthquake seismology in
Texas and metamorphism in Chester
Dome in Vermont. .

In the summer of 1990, Spencer

will direct a project on the structural
geology of the Blue Ridge Mountains.

The W.M. Keck Foundation, one of
the nation’s largest foundations in
terms of annual grants, was estab-
lished in 1954 by the late William M.
Keck, founder of the Superior Oil
Company, who also created in his will
the W.M. Keck Trust for the benefit
of the foundation.

The foundation’s primary focus is
on grants to universities and colleges
throughout the United States, with
particular emphasis in the fields of
earth sciences, engineering and medi-
cal research. It also provides limited
support, focused on program serving
Southern California, in the areas of
community services, health care,
precollegiate education and the arts.

Faculty book was adopted
as text for over 250 schools

 

From Staff Reports

 

The third edition of Research
Methods in Psychology, a book co-
written by Washington and Lee Uni-
versity psychology professor David
G. Elmes, was published recently by
West Publishing Co.

Two other co-authors of the book
are Barry H. Kantowitz, a research

' psychologist at Battelle Memorial In-

Parkins named alumni staff associate

 

From Staff Reports

 

Elizabeth J. Parkins, a senior at
Washington and Lee and a tri-editor of
The Ring-tum Phi, has been named
alumni staff associate at W&L for the
1989-90 academic year. She will
assume the post July 1.

Parkins succeeds Christopher J.
Deighan, who has held the position
since July 1987.

As alumni staff associate, Parkins
will work closely with Kathekon (the
student alumni association), con-
tribute to the W&L Alumni Magazine,
travel to alumni chapters, assist in the
planning and direction of reunion
weekend and assist in the general
operation and supervision of the

Alumni Office.
While a student at W&L, Parkins
has been a staff reporter for The Ring-

tum Phi, a member of the yearbook
staff and a member of the university
publications board. She has been ac-
tive with WLUR-FM and Cable
Channel 9, and has been a peer
counselor and a member of the
women’s soccer and lacrosse teams.
‘‘Betsy’s substantial writing and
videotape production experience is
perfect for some ‘special needs we
have in the coming year.’’ said
Richard B. Sessoms, director of
alumni programs at W&L. ‘‘We look
forward to the special contribution she
will make as the first undergraduate \
alumna working in the alumni of-
fice.” ‘

 

 

Elizabeth J. Parkins

 

 

 

stitute, and Henry L Roediger III, a
1969 W&L graduate and professor of
psychology at Rice University.
Elmes, Kantowitz and Roediger have
also written Experimental Psychology,
the third edition of which was pub-
lished in 1988 by West Publishing Co.
An _intermediate-level text, Re-
search Methods in Psychology details
the statistical and analytical pro-
cedures that provide the bases for
valid and reliable psychological
research. The second edition of the
text was adopted by more than 250
colleges and universities in the U.S.,
Canada and Europe.
Lee faculty in 1967. He received his
bachelor’s degree, with high honors in
psychology, from the University of
Virginia in 1964. He also received his
master’s and doctorate degrees from
UVA.

Elmes is the author of numerous
publications and has served as a con-
sultant to several publishers. He is a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, Psi Chi
and Phi Sigma honorary societies and
is listed in Who’s Who in the South
and Southwest and Who's Who in
America. In 1986, Elmes was
presented the Service Award from the
Virginia Academy of Science. He
served as secretary (1971-71) and
president (1983-85) of the Psychology
Section of the Virginia Academy of
Science.

 

 

 

Interviews by Sandi Dudley

 

 

 

 

Harrison Coleman,

 

, 9 1 :
Valdosta, GA — I don’t know but
there should be fajitas in the co-op.

ITALKBACK)

 

 

 

 

 

Eric Skinner, ’89, Elmira, NY
— They should receive credit for
each time they Participate in it.
One season of a varsity sport re-
quires more time than 5 regular
P.E. courses.

 

 

Travis Blain, 90, Stuart, FL
— I think they should get full
credit. They deserve it.

 

[Photos by JuLee Messerich

 

 

What do you think about athletes receiving full credit for participation in varsity athletics?

 

 

 

 

 

combined.

Carol Dannelly, ’91, Leesburg,
FL — I spend more time at swim
practice than I do in all my classes

Catherine Baillio,
Beach, VA — Yes, I definitely feel
that they should receive full credit
because

“0. Va.

the time commitment

demanded by varsity athletics cer-
tainly warrants credit.

 
 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1989

 

 

Photos by
Marc Ackerman

 

Reflections on Superdance ‘89

 

 

 

 

Debra Hurtt

pe

A

J

Fontaine Bostic Wright Ledbetter

Superdance ’89 was a huge success as they

raised over $5,000 more than expected.

PBK

 

 

   

MS Lip Sync

Get your lips inshape

 

From Staff Reports

 

Get your lips in shape and prepare
to boogie. The lip sync contest is
back!

Washington and Lee’s closet rock
stars, shower sopranos and plain old
hams will strut their stuff for the third
time on Friday, Feb. 24, at the third
annual W&L lip sync and air band
competition.

All proceeds from the contest will
be contributed to the National Mul-
tiple Sclerosis Society.

“‘Last year we raised more than
$800 for MS and had a lot of fun doing
it,’ said Jerry Darrell, one of the
events’ organizers. ‘‘With the in-
creased prize money and large number
of Fancy Dress tickets available for
prizes, we are hoping for a bigger
crowd than last year’s.”

The contest, open to all members of
the Washington and Lee community
and representatives from the area’s
women’s colleges, will begin at 8:30

p.m. in the General Headquarters.
The only rules are that no sound be
emitted from the stage and no
props—except costumes—are allow-
ed. Contestants will be judged on
creativity and originality,
choreography, lip synchronization
and costumes.

Judges for the contest will be Gary
Humiston, technical director of the
W&L University Theatre and Robert
deMaria, associate professor of jour-
nalism. A third judge will be an-
nounced later.

Prizes include $100 for first place,
$50 and two Fancy Dress tickets for
second place, and $50 and one Fancy
Dress for third. Door prizes donated
by area merchants will be awarded to
spectators during breaks.

Anyone interested in :participating
in the lip sync and air band contest
should register with Carol Calkins in
the student center. The entry fee is $3
per individual; the cover charge is $3

per person.

(continued from page 1)

Laura Earle Horgan of Newport
News; Teresa Lee Southard of
Dayton, Va.; Stephen Lee Stanley of
Shreveport, La.; and Delia Fayth
Truett of Friendsville, Tenn.

SENIORS: Mary Lucille Anderson
of Houston, Texas; Matthew P. Brady
of Charlotte, N.C.; Christopher L.
Callas of Point Marion, Pa.; Laura S.
Carty of Norfolk, Va.; Erin C. Cosby
of Vienna; Christine L. Davis of
Tallahassee, Fla.; John W. Deighan
of Pennsauken, N.J.; Vance E.
Drawdy of Piedmont, S.C.; Leeann
M. Flood of Fort Worth, Texas; John
J. Gunkel of Brookfield, Wis.;
Stanley C. Hall of Danville; Vanessa
Hartman of Memphis, Tenn.;
Danatha J. Hoffman of Raleigh,
N.C.; Esther M. Huffman of Lovett-
sville; Debra B. Hurtt of Chester-
town, Md.; Richard P. James Jr. of
Amelia.

Also Edward P. Joy of Pavilion,
N.Y.; Mary Anne Loftin of Winston-
Salem, N.C.; Edward D. Ludwig of
Lexington; Michael Robert Magoline
of Akron, Ohio; Christopher F.
Moore of Greensboro, N.C.; Jeffrey
P. Schultz of Oklahoma City, Okla.;
Julia C. Sheppard of Winchester;
Peter J. Sherwin of Fresno, Calif.;
David E. Thompson of Dallas, Texas;
Cathleen M. Tiernan of Winston-
Salem, N.C.; and Meredith F. Walker
of Germantown, Tenn.

1988 GRADUATES: Eugene Frank
Stephenson of Murfreesboro, N.C.
and Charles D. Copper of Bealeton.

 

 

 

Trip planning

Students planning a trip abroad
will welcome the latest edition of
the Student Travel Catalog, a free
68- page guide to special oppor-
tunities for travel, study and work
oversees available to students.

Published by the Council on
International Educational
Exchange (CIEE), the 1989
catalog features information on
special air fares, rail passes, low-
cost accommodations, publica-
tions, insurance, travel gear, tours
and car rentals as well as for
passport, visa and custom re-
quirements.

The catalog is available from
CIEE, Dept. 16, 205 E. 42nd
Street, New York, NY 10017.
There is a $1 cost for postage and
handling.

General Notes

LSAT

Junior pre-law
students—Because the LSAT ex-
ams come early next year and don’t
suit the W&L calendar, plan to
take the LSAT in June (register in
May). If you want to participate in
the Kaplan Prep Course for the
LSAT, only one course will be
taught here before the June and
September tests—during March
and April (the May course had to
be cancelled). To obtain a brochure
and registration forms, come to the
Career Development and Place-
ment Office.

Give the

Love Struck
GARFIELD’

Oxford :

Rising juniors and seniors who
are interested in the Virginia Pro-
gram at Oxford Summer Session
should see Prof. Pamela Simpson
in duPont 103. The six-week pro-
gram at St. ¢ nne’s College follows
the English system of lectures and
weekly tutorials by Oxford dons
Six credits may be earned through
study of the literature, history and
society of late 16th and early 17th

century England. The application
deadline is March 1.

Fine Cuisine
AM ATMOSPHERE SUPREME

“Over $0 years of quolity food”
STEAKS * SEAFOOD ¢ CHICKEN
GREEK &@ PrALIAN SPECIALTIES

© CARRY OUT NERVE

ee Seen ws

Choos acearee 32.8. mas PE een ws,

 

 

 

* oa e

 

 

 

 

 

Seeceaseo—

YOU QUALIFY FOR
INSTANT CREDIT!

Right

Valley True Value Hardware “

Wen

‘

  

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Start making credit pur-
chases IMMEDIATELY! We

."
i
i
é
i
4
4
25 § will send you a Members
I
i
t
i
§
;

 
   

oe 7 mee %

cy UTA ie

HARDWARE STORES

 

Robby Jones a
Hardware, Paint & Related Items 703/463-2022 a Credit Card at once with p.
Got. 8:20-6: i CK. B
463-2106 oe ar a Standard 10% Discount il W. Nelson St. Your sweetheart will really get Oo a a ing, Sp Oo re t
, With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450 stuck on Teleflora's exclusive ’ “pp

Love Struck GARFIELD ing Goods,Watches,

 

 

 

Bouquet. It’s America’s favorite tronics & MORE! A 1 1 with
cartoon cat with a big bouquet of a S t
fresh flowers. The suction cup on installment peyments ou ;

 
       
     
 

Du ‘BIEMPUAs asMes4 PAWUN) 4861. CTFISNVD

  

 

 

 

 

 

¢
4
i
f
:
i
-
k
i
Fe
ee ee i
his back lets him attach to walls of our "Giant 100+ Page: ‘2,
COU KY ESY and mirrors. To send one 4 Catalog. " Take 12 months j
anywhere, call or visit our so
| H i = ee ee |
: airsty 1St = credit car a -s 1g
pani elek “ D = 4 I.D.- vaiuabie for check i
136 Varner Lane ithe cashing, etc. plus your g
463-3975 fT i Students Credit Group i
5 Open Evenings erson i A-1 reference will be on
‘ 7 g Florist to the Homestead file to help you obtain i ‘
- Mon.-Thurs, till 7:00 p.m. 103 N. Jefferson Tell us i other credit card: so fl
J, 463-9841 Teleflora i send in your $5 cat En é
i deposit now. (refundat ef
B with your first or a ’
: }
2019 Forest Ave. Office: 261-2112 ' Esabah yar dt Toy '
Buena Vista Home: 463-1952 ' iar aur Teeny bach sea :
Applications are now being considered for a possible opening in the Admissions es no
Office for the 1989-90 academic year. ._— ethemeneaele
: / graduating s i sted in being conside for the position of Admis- TD <mceerneeeeemmeneion O
For all of your automotive needs, | Any graduating student interested in being cc nsidered e po S : -—
COURTESY FORD sions Counselor -- the position currently held by Timothy G. McMahon -- should MEMBERS ?.0. 80x 4649
see me at submit a letter of application to the Personnel Office by February 23, 1989. A per Students gee eincaney }
i i sonal interview will be scheduled for finalists in late February.
MERCURY in Buena Vista. sonal intervie edule y aie laa

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1989

 

Hoops finishes 14-0 in the ‘Temple’

 

By Jay Plotkin
Staff Reporter

 

It has been a long month for the
Washington and Lee basketball team.
But last week the team began to reap '
the rewards of its hard work.

Last Thursday the Generals enter-
tained Emory & Henry, a matchup of
the top two teams in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. The last time the
teams met, the Generals prevailed 62-
57. With a win this time, W&L could
clinch at least a tie for the regular
season title, and with the game being
played in the Warner Center, things
definitely looked good for the Gen-
erals.

Things looked even better when the
game got underway. Sophomore
center Chris Jacobs scored the first
four points of the game, and before
the Wasps could turn around, they
were being stung 27-6; their top
scorer and rebounder, Major Warner,
was in foul trouble; and the Generals
were on fire. When sophomore guard
Pat Gallavan hit for three with 11:24,
the lead was 21. When he hit again
from trey-land two minutes later, the
lead was 24, 33-9.

E&H started on the comeback trail
and closed the gap to 44- 26 at the half

 

 

 

 

Verne Canfield

and kept coming back. Mike Posey
converted a three-point play with

14:54 left, making the score was 49-
37 W&L. When Mark Cornette hit
from 19 feet for the Wasps, the W&L
lead was one at 71-70 with 3:05 left.
But the Generals held on and went on
a 10-2 run to open up an 81-72 lead.
Leon Hill’s three pointer provided the
final margin, 81-75.

Hill finished with 29 points to top
all scorers. Posey was the only other
Wasp in double digits with 13. The
Generals were led by their splendid
sophomores. Guard Mike Holton led
the way with 16, Jacobs added 15, Ed
Hart 14 and Gallavan 10.

On Saturday the Generals played
host to the team that earlier handed
them their worst loss of the season,
Emory University.

“Gallavan, who started for the first
time this season, scored the Generals
first 10 points in the opening 4:30.
Emory, however, grabbed a 16-10
lead before Hart made his presence
felt. The sophomore scored five
straight points, and Holton’s three-
pointer gave the Generals an 18-17
advantage. When sophomore Scott
Alrutz and Jacobs combined for 10 of
the Generals next 13 points, the lead
was 31-21 with 9:37 remaining.

Emory cut the lead to one at the

half, 49-48, behind the play of David
Gaynes and Paul Damm, who had 13
and 10 points respectively in the half.
Jacobs scored 14 of his 18 in the first
half for W&L.

To start the second half, the Eagles
opened up a four point lead on a
basket by Gaynes at the 16-minute
mark, but the Generals pulled even at
61 on a basket by yet another sopho-
more, Craig Hatfield. The Eagles then
eased to a 71-65 lead before Holton
went to work for W&L.

A three-pointer cut the lead in half,
71-68, and another bomb made it a
one point game at 76-75. When Hart
tipped in a miss with 6:06 left, the
Generals led for good at 79-78.
Holton’s third three-pointer in six
minutes made it 84-78, and the Gen-
erals held on for a 99-95 win.

“*T can’t say enough about our fans.
They made the difference tonight. I
felt like running out to half court and [
shaking my fists to entice the crowd],
but I didn’t want to get a technical
foul. They were fantastic. I feel like
buying them about four kegs.”’

On Tuesday night the Generals
closed out their 1988-89 home season
against Averett College.

W&L jumped out to a quick 20-11
lead when Holton nailed a three-
pointer with 11:15 left in the first half.

Then Winchester went to work for the
Cougars. He scored five of their next
eight points to bring Averett within
three. James Braxton scored to give
Averett the lead, and when Tony Seay
scored with 7:13 left, the Cougar lead
was 27-22. Averett led at the half 37-
34 behind 13 points from Kennard
Winchester and 10 from Seay.

Hatfield then put W&L on his
shoulders and carried them the rest of
the way, scoring 21 points in the sec-
ond half. When he hit two more free
throws with 8:08 left, the lead was 11
at 65- 54. Averett cut the lead to three
at 72-69 on Glen Oliver's three
pointer, but the Generals put out
Averett’s fire with a basket by Jacobs
and five more Hatfield points to ex-
tend the lead back to 10 with just over
two minutes left, and the Generals
held on to win 84-79.

The win gave the Generals their
first undefeated home season, with a
14-0 record. The win also gave Can-
field his 400th career victory. -

The 18-3 Generals hit the road for
the remainder of the season, with
games at Roanoke, Eastern Men-
nonite, Tufts and Amherst. W&L
clinched the ODAC regular season ti-
tle and received a bye into the con-
ference tournament semifinals on Feb-
ruary 23 in Salem.

 

Sophomore Scott Alrutz crashes the boards against Emory and

Henry last Thursday.

Canfield notches 400th career coaching victory; looks forward to 500

 

By Jay Plotkin
Staff Reporter

 

For 25 years, Verne Canfield
has been the head coach here at
Washington and Lee. On Tuesday
night, when his Generals defeated
Averett College 84-79, he joined
the ranks of the Division III elite
with his 400th coaching victory.

“It’s a tribute to all the young
men that I have had that have add-
ed to that 400,’’ said Canfield.
‘Not only players, but you’ve got
assistant coaches and support peo-
ple. In our program right now, the
secretary and the guy who cleans
our locker room and wipes the
floor are just as important to us.
It’s nice to achieve it, and obvious-

ly it’s not something you do by
yourself.
““We’re
The road to 400 was not at all
easy for Canfield. He inherited a
program in 1964 that had suffered
through seven straight losing
seasons. After losing his first
twelve ball games, he quickly
turned the program around, and in
his third season, the team went
20-5 and won the College Athletic
Conference championship.
Canfield says the first two wins
he ever had at W&L were certainly
memorable. ‘‘I can tell you my
first win here. It was against North
Carolina Wesleyan, and it was the
year we only won two, so it was
easy to remember. The second win

looking forward to

was against Old Dominion.”’

The month of February has pro-
ved to be kind to Canfield. He has
achieved three of his milestones
during this month. On February
18, 1971, in his seventh year at
W&L, he got his 100th victory,
84-77 over Dickinson College in
the old Doremus Gym. On Febru-
ary 16, 1977 came win number
200, a 101-94 win over North
Carolina-Greensboro. That win
gave his team a 20-2 record, the
best in W&L history. The team fin-
ished 23-5, ranked No. 4 in Divi-
sion III. On January 8, 1983, a vic-
tory over Lebanon Valley earned
him his 300th win. That team fin-
ished 17-10.

“Tf the good Lord is willing, and
I mean this very much so, because

He is the one I put my faith in, I
want to coach 15 more years. I
want to coach until I’m 70, if I’m
physically able to do it and mental-
Ty able to do it, and I see no reason
why I can’t, I want to do it until
I’m 70. If not here, then someplace
else, because that’s my calling in
life. I was called to be a coach, and
I’m not sure what else I'd do if I
wasn’t a coach.

“I always tell the guys that I’m
going to teach them more than
basketball. Maybe I can teach them
something about themselves, and
that’s what important. Not winning
and losing.”’

On Tuesday, Canfield received
what he felt was one of the greatest
honors since he has been in
coaching. ‘‘[Tuesday]night, I had

the honor of hearing the students
chant my name. I can’t even ex-
press how that makes you feel.’’

Canfield joins a list of 11
coaches who have reached the 400-
win plateau. There is only one
Division III coach who has reached
the 500-win mark, and Canfield
would love to reach that mark as
well.

‘*We’re looking forward to 500,
and the good Lord willing, we’ll
achieve that some day. I would like
to achieve the 500, at least.”’

To Canfield, there is more to
coaching than just winning and los-
ing. ‘‘I remember—as I want the
players to remember—the good
times you had. The trying times
you had an how you pulled
together.”’

 

 

 

Common

[MIKE SHADY] SHADY

missing in action

2) } x

Furniture Dealers

-% 2°°"For your extra'pleces of furniture

463-2742

fin! W&L SNACK

Our common sense tells us we can’t do certain things. Common sense
says not to leave dirty dishes in the sink for three months. Common
sense warns us not to mess with people built like Arnold
Schwarzenegger. Commons sense also informs us it is not wise to have
Sports Illustrated’s swimsuit issue on the coffee table when the
girlfriend comes over. Safer to have something like Newsweek.

For Averett head coach Ed Hall, common sense was something he
forgot to pack in his travel bag on Tuesday night. Hall, whose team lost
84-79 to the Generals in the Warner Center, was not pleased with the of-
ficiating, especially considering W&L out- shot Averett 31-7 from the
free throw line. But Hall did not resort to your usual bickering and com-
plaining about the refs. No, Mr. Hall took it one step further.

With less than one minute remaining, the Cougars trailed by as many
as eight points. Feeling the game was over, Hall stopped doing what he
gets paid to do—namely, coach his team—and instead turned the final
60-odd seconds into something you see during an eighth-grader’s
recess.

‘*F--- you,”’ said Hall to the officials as the they ran past him. ‘‘You
‘ really screwed us you a--h---.’’ What was that you said? Do you mind
speaking up, Mr. Hall? I don’t think the small children in the tenth row
heard you. ‘‘You f---ing suck,’’ retorted the ‘adult’ (I use this term
loosely, here, like Hall’s tongue) who is supposed to be representing his
college.

The officials, thankfully, abhorred from slapping Hall with a
technical (I wish someone had slapped him, literally) so as to bring the
game to a speedy conclusion. But does that mean its okay for Hall to just
let his mouth run amok and personally insult the men in the striped
shirts? What does common sense say?

Hall continually asked for ‘‘fairness’’ from the refs during the
ballgame. Was what Hall said fair? Hall rated their efforts as ‘‘high-
school’’ officiating. I submit that you, Mr. Hall, didn’t even deserve
that level of competence. Your actions were more like kindergart-
ners’—name calling and finger-pointing.

You hear coaches talking about winning and losing graciously,
sportsmanship and class. I guess ‘‘class’’ is not in Hall’s vocabulary
considering most of the words he uses contain only four letters. Hall
forgot why he came to Lexington in the first place—to coach his team in
a basketball game. Coaches ask their players to play a ‘‘full’’ 40
minutes, but Hall forgot this philosophy, coaching instead for only 39
minutes and using the remainder to berate, accost and vent his frustra-
tions on three men who have one of the most thankless jobs in all of
sports.

On what should have been night of happiness and celebration for
W&L’s Verne Canfield and his 400th career win, Hall left a bad taste in
the mouths of the people who had witnessed his tirade. He also had me
asking, ‘‘Does this man have any common sense?”’

Special of the Month
(Nights Only)

Ham Sandwich
1.29 or 1-1/4 points

 

Have A Great Winter Break

 

 

 

 

 

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

OXFORD

 

 

 

CHECK OUT OUR
FACILITIES

     
  
 

SES ELSSE LAs SL C2222 = ~~ ~~

PARTY SHIRTS,
TEAM SHIRTS, ETC.

BIG DOG
GRAPHICS

463-2618

 

ee

Severai colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Cent,
to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior
status is required. and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges
and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. Col-
lege in Oxford. A special summer session 1s directed by WISC

INTERN IN
WASHINGTON, LONDON

 

 

 

 

aera se se Ves Soe

a
ee

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

)
x’ Mr.CleanCar “| |

; EEN ECHES EE PD Pal
In the basement of Amoco Servicenter BENEENERIIEL

Clean Inside and Out cllee(elet
Pick-up and Delivery

 

em

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, Italian And
Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

 

 

 

 

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media and
with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level government
officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journ:|ists. Similar Opportunities in public
policy internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall. Spring and Summer)

 

REebreE Rel
en

1 Mil St
Staunten, Va
885-3409

 

 

 

464-3087
(463-7405

The Washington International Studies Center
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 230
Serving Dinner Nightly 5 pin to Close Washington, D.C, 20002 (202) 547-3275

Reservations suggested

 

 

WESC

J. Carter

 

 

207 N. Main St.)

EO/ AA

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

‘BACK PAGE

Working Girl is a big COpy Wa Weekly Calendar

 

 

 

Melanie Griffith is sweet and sexy

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

There is little question that this
year’s Oscar race is going to be one of
the most contested in recent years.
One could argue that the close com-
petition has emerged because there
aren't any films, like last years big
winner The Last Emperor, that sat
head and shoulders above the rest. On
the contrary, this year’s race has
emerged because a plethora of films
have risen to the plateau of excellence
that the Academy demands.

Rain Man, Mississippi Burning, The
Accused, Who Framed Roger Rabbit ?,
Big and Gorillas in the Mist will all be
around when the Oscar nominations
come out later this month. They are all
excellent, and all have legitimate shots
at winning. But, when you are tallying
your winners, don’t overlook the
year’s surprise comedy hit Working
Girl. It could be this year’s biggest
sleeper.

Mike Nichol’s hit comedy starring
Melanie Griffith, Harrison Ford and
Sigourney Weaver is giving Big and
Roger Rabbit some serious competi-
tion as the best comedy of the year. In
fact, it beat out both films as the year’s
best comedy at the Foreign Press
Association’s Golden Globe Awards
two weeks ago. In addition, Griffith
took home the award for Best Actress
in a Comedy (the Golden Globes name
Best Films in both comedy/musical
and drama categories as opposed to
the Academy Awards that simply
names the Best Film taking all films
into account for the one category).

Working Girl centers around work-

ing girl/corporate goddess wanna-be
Tess McGill (Griffith) who goes to
work for boss Katharine Baker
(Weaver) in the mergers and acquisi-
tions section of a New York corpora-
tion. When Katharine breaks her leg
on a ski trip, Tess has to cover for her
at the office and finds that her boss has
made plans to use an idea for a merger
that she suggested.

Needless to say Tess is more than a
little miffed at the ethically reprehen-
sible actions of her boss and sets out to
right herself regardless of the cost.
After all, as she says to Harrison Ford
in one scene, ‘‘I have the mind for
business and a body for sin.”’

Throw in love interest Jack
Trainer (Ford) and you basically have
enough material to get to the end of
the two hour screenplay.

I really do not mean to sound flip-
pant. Working Girl is an enjoyable
film that I am happy I went to see. I
must admit, however, that throughout
the entire film something about it
bothered me until I finally realized
what it was. The film is basically a
wolf in sheep’s clothing.

Anyone remember a film that came
out a couple of years ago with Michael
J. Fox and Helen Slater about a kid
from nowhere, who through a little
undercover razza-ma-tazz works his
way up to the upper echelon of his
uncle’s New York corporation? Any
bells ringing in anyone’s head? How
about the title? The Secret of My
Success maybe. Boing! Yeah, now
everyone is getting the little light bulb.

If you think about it and do a little
comparing, it is easy to see that Work-
ing Girl is the exact same film to the
letter as The Secret of My Success:ex-

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1989

 

 

Girl.”’

cept the roles are reversed by sex and
the cast of Working Girl is bigger in
terms of actor’s reputations. I don’t
want to ruin Working Girl for anyone
who: hasn’t seen it yet by making too
many comparisons but keep basic
plot, the resolution of the plot and
specific characters in mind when you
see Working Girl and see if it’s not the
same film.

As I said though, I’m still glad that I
saw the film. It is done very well and
is very amusing and entertaining.
Melanie Griffith, though a little
heavy, continues to be the sultry, sexy

 

Harrison Ford, Melanie Griffith and Sigourney Weaver star in ‘*Working

 

siren that she was in Body Double and
Something Wild. 1 guess it runs in the
family (Tippi Hedren of Hitchcock
fame is Griffith's mother). Ford is
cool and dashing as usual and Weaver
is fine as the woman we all want to
hate.

Working Girl is cute and it’s fun.
It’s not better or funnier than Big, but
it more than justifies its ticket price.
The cinematography around New
York is especially dashing. Take some
time to see it.

TUG’S TAG - k&*&*®

smithfield Chamber Ensemble to play |"

Will perform pieces by Dvorak, Mozart and Brahms

 

From Staff Reports

 

The Smithfield ‘Chamber Ensemble
will present a concert at Washington
and Lee on Tuesday, Feb. 21, at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel. The concert is
sponsored by the W&L Concert
Guild. Single admission for the con-
cert is $5 for adults and $3 for senior
citizens and non-W&L students.

The concert will feature two of the
most popular selections of chamber
music—Dvorak’s Quintet in A Major

for Piano and Strings and Mozart’s
Quartet in G Minor for Piano and Str-
ings. The ensemble will also perform
Sonata in G Major for Violin and

Piano by Brahms.

‘ The Smithfield Ensemble was
formed in 1980 as a duo consisting of
violinist James Glazebrook and pianist
Mary Louise Hallauer, who invited
friends to join them in playing some of
the world’s great chamber music.
Other string players who join them to
perform as an ensemble are Laurence

Country ) Fare

COUNTRY CRAFTS & ANTIQUES

KAREN A. NOELI
703/463-2088

4 E. WASHINGTON ST.
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

 

 

Mid-terms blow. The Fast Lane Rocks. Do it.

12 Noon-Midnight Monday-Thyrsday
Saturday 12 p.m.-1 a.m.
Fridays Open Until 2 a.m.
Sunday Noon-Midnight

 

 

Midnight Bowl Special
11:00-2 a.m. Fridays
Music and Prizes

 

 

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695

 

Chang, violinist in both the Roanoke
and New River Valley Symphony or-
chestras; Benedict Goodfriend, cur-
rently a member of the Kandinsky
Trio in residence at Roanoke College;
and Alan Weinstein, cellist in the
Kandinsky Trio and the New River
Valley Symphony.

Hallauer and Glazebrook are both
professors of music at Virginia Tech.
Hallauer has performed as a soloist
and in chamber music in major cities
in the U.S. and has been a frequent

guest artist with the internationally ac-
claimed Audobon Quartet.
Glazebrook is conductor of the New
River Valley Symphony as well as
first violinist and concertmaster for
the Roanoke Symphony.

The Smithfield Ensemble performs
duos, trios, quartets and quintets from
the classic, romantic and 20th-century
repertoires. The group has presented
concerts across the U.S., including an
appearance at the Corcoran Gallery of
Art in Washington, D.C.

 

 

brochures call 703-289-9441.

 

Esl Oy
NEXT EXIT

 

Receive an education in central Virginia’ best midweek skiing values.
Lift tickets are only $18, for instance. Coupon books with eight tickets,
just $88. And our midweek lodging packages start at $38. For free

10MilesEast Of Harrisonburg, Virginia,On Route 33

Booklet can only be used by one person — non-transferable.

 

 

Gettier’s Gifts
CARDS, POSTERS & GIFTS

Route 60 W. across from Keydet General
Plenty of Parking

Open M-S 10-6

 

 

Valentine’s
Day
February 14

Say

meen
LEXINGTON

 

 

 

Love from Lexington on
Valentine's Day

Look for bags in Downtown

Lexington Stores

 

 

 

 

“4
4

 

February 10 to February 25

ERIDAY, FERRUARY 10
Washington Holiday begins.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WRESTLING: Virginia College Division Championships,
Newport News Apprentice. ,

LSAT Exam, Commerce School.

I pm. OPERA BROADCAST: Don Carlo (Verdi). WLUR-FM (91.5).
2 p.m. SWIMMING (M & W): Generals vs. Mary Washington. Twombly Pool.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WRESTLING: Virginia College Division Championships; ,
BASKETBALL: Roanoke College; INDOOR TRACK: Va. Tech Meet.
Freshman mid-term grades due by noon.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Easicm Mennonite College.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Tufts University.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WRESTLING: Eastern Regionals (through Feb. 18);
SWIMMING (M&W): Adantic States Championships (Uwough Feb, 19).
1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Lucia di Lammermoor (Donizeui), WLUR-FM (91.5).
7: p.m. FINE ARTS IN ROCKBRIDGE: DANCE RECITAL: Ballet Ensemble, Sheri Ludt, director,
Modem Jazz Ensemble, Carol Kirgis, director. Lexington High School.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Amherst College.
I pm. AUDITIONS FOR FAMILY POPS CONCERT: Roles for 100 school-age children
(ages 4 - 18) for performance with Sesame Street's Bob McGrath (April 30). Auditorium,
Lexington High School. For funher information, call Prof. Barry Kolman, 463-8856.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20
Undergraduate classes resume.
Registration for Spring Term begins.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21 t
5: p.m ROTC FRESHMAN GET-TOGETHER: Military Science Building. Sandwiches will be server,
7:30 p.m. BASKETBALL: ODAC Quarter-Finals. Warner Center.
8 p.m. CONCERT GUILD: Smithficld Chumber Ensemble. Lee Chapel.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22
8am. ECUMENICAL PRAYER SERVICE: Lee Chapel. Public invited.
3 p.m. OPEN RAPPELLING: For all W&L women students. Mect at R.O.T.C. Building.
4
9%
5 p.m, CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Mike Applebaum ‘90 and T.K. Bowers 90, Room 401, Howe Halll.

Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited,

 

FEBRUARY
ymin We ead

 

‘Campiis Paperback Bestsellers

1. The Essential Calvin and Hobbes, by Bill Waterson.
(Andrews & McMeel, $12.95.) More Calvin & Hobbes cartoons. |

2. The Bonfire of the Vanities, by Tom Wolfe. (Bantam, $4.95.)
Lust, greed and the American | way of life in the ‘80s. \

3. The Tommyknockers, by by Stephen King. (Signet/NAL, $5.95.)
._ The latest by the “King” of horrors.

 

€ The Far Side Gallery 3, by Gary Larson. (Andrews & McMeel,
$10.95.) Selected cartoons from three previous collections.

5. Beloved, by Toni Morrison. (Plume/NAL, $8.95.)
Profoundly affecting chronicle of slavery and its aftermath.

6. The Cat who came for Christmas, by Cleveland Amory.
(Penguin $6.95.) Amory’s life with a stray.

7. Separated at Birth?, by Spy Magazine, Eds.
(Doubleday, $6.95.) Unlikely lookalikes.

8. Tales too Ticklish to Tell, by Berke Breathed.
(Little, Brown, $7.95.) More of Bloom County.

#

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Happy Valentine’s Day

Russell StoverCandy ¢ Perfumes

+

 

 

re —

Valentine Gift Items

    
    

 

Old Main St. Mall,
sesh ts Va. 24450 ©

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLG

audiotronics

VIRGINIA’S STEREO SPECIALIST
YAMAHA ALPINE

 

 

DENON BOSTON Ladies’

Ker SORANOE Shoes, Clothing
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI and Accessories _
- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED Clearance Sale ;
; BAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT 50% Off 7
. IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER All Winter Items

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

4

23 N. Main St. “ (703) 463-5988 ,

 

 

 

 

 

   

ELMAN KESSLER EBES BEKLB HL BREABGHS | SILLA ALASAIASA SS

UNIVERSITY PRINTING CENTER
Reid Hall

 
 

A Hy, i tN lh
