‘wil

-

4

a

Che KRing-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

VOLUME 88, NO. 25

 

Debate ends with Dumas

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

May 18, 1989

 

Finkelstein withdrawal forces question of succession

 

By Pat Lopes
Staff Reporter

 

Capping two weeks of open and closed Executive
Committee meetings, the EC Wednesday decided to
rescind its Monday vote to hold a special election
and will allow Vice President-elect Willard Dumas
to become Washington and Lee’s 1989-90 Student
Body President. That position was vacated when
President-elect Hugh Finkelstein withdrew from
Washington and Lee earlier this month.

The EC’s decision means Vice President-
elect Dumas and Secretary-elect Jon Sheinberg will
assume the positions to which they were elected the
day after undergraduate commencement, as the
Student Body Constitution provides. .

Then, since there will be no president, a
succession of officers will occur, making Dumas
president, Sheinberg vice-president and Senior
Representative-elect Chris Giblin secretary.

A special election this spring will be held to fill
the vacancy that will be left by Giblin. Only rising
seniors will vote, as the election is for the position
of EC senior class representative. Written petitions
signed by 50 students are due in the EC room by
Monday at 5 p.m. At that time, there will be a
mandatory meeting for all candidates. The general
election is set for Wednesday; if necessary, a run-off
election will be held Friday, May 26.

The decision to allow a succession of officers
was reached after several weeks of debate
concerning how to fill the approaching vacancy in
the office of the president-elect. At the heart of the
controversy was the Student Body Constitution,
which doesn’t give a procedure to follow if a
president-elect should withdraw from school before
actually taking office.

At Monday’s meeting of the EC, President
Christopher de Movellan described two possible
procedures.

First was the succession procedure _ finally
adopted at the Wednesday meeting; the second
procedure was for a special presidential election held
either during this term or at the start of fall term.
Both procedures were considered in a closed-door
EC meeting last week and then in three nights of

open-door meetings on Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday of this week. A large number of
Students attended the open-door meetings and

discussed the procedural options with EC members.
Students filled the gallery, sat on the floor, carted in
= from other rooms and spilled out into the
all.

Because Second-Year Law Representative Dan
DuPre and Third-Year Law Representative Dave
Nave were unable to attend the Monday night
meeting and because of the narrow 5-4 passage that
night of the motion calling for a special election, de
Movellan arranged for a second round of debate on
Wednesday.

At the Wednesday meeting, Giblin stated that if
there was a special election, he would not run again
for president. Giblin made an unsuccessful bid for
the office earlier this year during the regular March
elections,

Sophomore Class President Tom Spurgeon
summed up the spirit of the debate when he said,
“‘Can we do this, is as important as should we do
this?’’ Clauses in the constitution could be tound to
support any number of options; as a result, the
consideration of what was in the best interest of the
school provided the most compelling arguments for
and against elections and succession, Spurgeon said.
De Movellan, Sophomore Representative John
Fialcowitz, First-Year Law Representative David
Cobb, Third-Year Law Representative Dave Nave
and Bar Association President John Falk all stressed
that a spring election would be problematic because
of the absence of the law students, who finished
final examinations last week and left town for

 

Head lacrosse coach Dennis Daly

Academics v. athletics

 

——

What price success?

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

It was two years ago when the
issues were put to rest; when the
questions were answered; when
there were no longer any doubts
in people’s minds about the future
of Washington and Lee lacrosse.

The Generals had just soundly
defeated Roanoke in the opening
round of the Division III National
Championship Tournament, and,
although W&L would lose in the
semifinals to Ohio Wesleyan, a
new era was dawning. Long gone
were the four consecutive losing
seasons suffered while the pro-
gram competed at the Division I
level under a non-scholarship Di-
vision III policy. The downward
move from Division I had been a
hotly debated one, but the support-
ers of the change had one strong
argument — in Division III, they
said, W&L would be able to seri-
ously contend for a national cham-
pionship against schools _ that
would be operating under the
same rules and = same
student-athlete philosophy. Atter
such a successful debut, their ar-
guments appeared to have been
proven. Washington and Lee
would be a “thool to be reckoned
with come spring time on the la-
crosse field.

Now, after seasons with 2-11
and 4-9 records, the question is
not whether the Generals will
challenge for the national title, be
selected for the tournament, or
even win the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference. Now, the ques-
tion is; What is wrong with the
W&L lacrosse program?

It is a question that begets
even more questions. Is it the
coaching? What about the sched-

ule? Can blame be placed on the
admissions department? The ques-
tions are easy to come up with,
but the answers are not so readily
apparent.

W&L’s athletic teams have not
exactly floundered this past year.
The 19 teams compiled a
165-117-3 record. Of the 12
men’s teams, nine had winning
records. Three captured con-
ference championships. One of the
teams with a losing record, men’s
tennis, received a bid to the na-
tional championships. Two teams
finished in the top eight in the na-
tion in their respective sports
(men’s tennis fifth; men’s swim-
ming eighth). On the women’s
side, four of the seven programs
posted winning seasons with two
conference championships, one
from a team with a losing record
(women’s swimming).

The fact that W&L has experi-
enced any kind of success at all in
intercollegiate athletic competition
is no accident. Indeed, according
to. Athletic Director William
McHenry, the objective of the
W&L athletic department is to
provide more than just an avenue
for students to participate in
sports.

“‘T feel it is extremely impor-
tant that we have a successful ath-
letic program in order to make
[W&L] a good experience for the
student-athletes and for the stu-
dents in general,’’ McHenry says.
‘Certainly the goals of any athlet-
ic team is to have a winning sea-
son; to compete for the conference
championship and to be able to
challenge the best athletes and
best teams at the highest level
they can achieve — whether it’s a
regional or national champ-
se Please see DALY p.7.

LLL LEA
By James Lake
Staff Reporter

 

If the Washington and Lee Al-
umni Fraternity Council has its
way, kegs have become a thing of
the past at W&L fraternities.

The AFC Saturday voted to
urge the house corporations of
W&L’s 16 fraternities to ban com-
munal sources of alcohol, includ-
ing kegs.

Saturday’s decision comes sev-
en months after the AFC called on
the W&L Intra-Fraternity Council
to ban the use of house funds and
the pooling of funds for the pur-
chase of alcohol.

At that time, the IFC went
along with the ban on using house
funds to buy alcohol but did not
prohibit the pooling of funds, ac-
cording to Leroy Atkins, W&L’s
dean of fraternity affairs. Saturday,
however, the AFC reiterated its
opposition to the pooling of

Trustees

By Caly Smith
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Board of Trustees will
meet Friday and Saturday to ap-
prove next year’s budget and the
degrees for this year’s graduates.

“The board meets three times
a year, once in October, once in
late January or early February and
always in late May,’’ said Farris
Hotchkiss, secretary to the board.
‘Particularly important at the spr-
ing meeting is the approval of the
university’s budget for the ’89-’90
academic year and the approval of
the graduates from the recommen-
dation of the faculty.”’

The Board of Trustees has 30
members, four of which are wom-
en, said Hotchkiss. He said mem-
bership is divided into six com-
mittees, including academic, cam-
pus life, planning and develop-
ment, budget and audit, investment

Washington and Lee honored three distin-
guished alumni during ceremonies at Lee
Chapel on Saturday. The three recipients of

funds — as well as the use of
chapter funds — for the purchase
of alcohol.

While the AFC does not have
direct authority over W&L’s fra-
ternities, all of the 16 house cor-
porations will probably adopt the

AFC’s recommendations, accord-
ing to Atkins. At least two
houses — Sigma Alpha Epsilon

and Sigma Nu — have already.
Many W&L fraternities already
falls under similar rules through
their national organizations. Ac-
cording to Atkins, Kappa Alpha
Order, Lambda Chi Alpha, Phi
Kappa Psi, Pi Kappa Phi, Sigma
Nu and Sigma Phi Epsilon are all
members of the Fraternity Insur-
ance Planning Group, or FIPG.
According to the FIPG’s Risk
Management Policy, ‘‘No alcohol-
ic beverages may be purchased
through the chapter treasury,’ and
the purchase of alcohol for mem-
bers or guests may not be ‘‘under-
taken or coordinated by any mem-

meet for

and nominating. ‘‘That is the way
the board does a lot of its work in
those committees,’’ said Hotchkiss.
“The board will spend all day
Friday in committee meetings in
the University Center, and then it
will spend Saturday morning in
Northen Auditorium meeting to-
gether as a whole.”

At this particular meeting, the
board will continue working on
the fraternity renaissance program,
Hotchkiss said. Under the $10
million program, 16 fraternity
houses will be completely reno-
vated and restored. The program
will be financed through university
funds, with roughly half the uni-
versity’s advance to be replaced
by gifts and the other half to be
replaced by rentals and a Greek
system fee.

The board will also discuss
preliminary fund-raising plans for
the coming capital fund-raising
campaign, said Hotchkiss.

In addition, the new presidents

i ai,

eel
ig Me

ac
~

&® Please see EC p.5.

lf AFC has its way, kegs to be banned

ber in the name of or on behalf of
the chapter.”’

FIPG rules also say the use of
alcohol in the chapter house or
“in any situation sponsored or
endorsed’’ by the chapter ‘‘must
be in compliance with any and all
applicable laws.”’

While current FIPG policy
does not specifically ban kegs
from chapter events, the national
tules of at least one W&L frater-
nity do. According to the Sigma
Nu Risk Reduction Policy, ‘*No
chapter may allow a tap system
and/or a keg to be present in the
chapter house, on chapter property,
or at a chapter function.”’

However, according to Sigma
Nu Executive Director Mo Little-
field, his fraternity is not the only
one that considers using kegs a
violation. Littlefield said that, even
if kegs are not specifically banned,
their use by more than one person
would violate FIPG policy, be-

cause of the rule prohibiting the
buying of alcohol by one member
for another or for the fraternity’s
guests,

The six W&L fraternities cov-
ered by the FIPG policy are not
the only W&L houses that are not
allowed to use house funds or to
pool funds for alcohol. Atkins said
Phi Delta Theta, Beta Theta Pi,
Kappa Sigma and Phi Gamma
Delta also have their own policies
banning the use of chapter funds
and the pooling of funds to buy
alcohol. And, according to Little-
field, Phi Gamma Delta and Phi
Kappa Sigma are both moving to-
ward FIPG membership, and Sig-
ma Chi has its own policy that is
virtually identical to the FIPG’s.

The result of this tightened leg-
islation, ‘skins said, is simple.
“Fraternities need to stop acting
like bars,’’ he said.‘‘It’s ludicrous
for our students to think BYOB
means bring your own keg.’’

weekend Winter

of the Alumni Board of Directors
and the Law Council will make
reports to the board, said Hotch-
kiss. “‘This is the first chance that
the new officers have to meet
with the board,’’ he said. ‘“They
will all meet again in the coming
year,”’

The outgoing president of the
student body will also meet with
the board, Hotchkiss said.

Other routine procedures at the
May meeting are the board’s ap-
proval of faculty promotions and
appointments, review of the in-
vestment perfarmance of the uni-
versity’s endowment and approval
of the capital projects for next
year, said Hotchkiss.

‘“‘Any plans the university has
for buying capital equipment, such
as a computer, vehicle, or major
piece of labratory equipment, is
reviewed at this meeting,’ he

  
   
 
  
       
  
   
   

 

 

 

   

By W. Patrick Hinely/ W&l

the Distinguished Alumni Award are from
the left, J. Hardin Marion, ’55, ‘58L, Paul J.B.
Murphy, '49, and Robert W. Hilton Jr., '39.

Rush is
‘inevitable’

By Tyler Suiters
Staff Reporter

 

 

A long-range planning com-
mittee has recommended to Presi-
dent John Wilson that fraternity
rush be moved to winter term,
said Interfraternity Council Presi-
dent Kevin Nash.

“I believe that winter rush is
three-to-five down the road,”’ said
Nash, ‘‘I don’t think the fraterni-
ties want it, but that seems to be
the direction it is heading.”’

Associate Dean of Students
Leroy ‘‘Buddy” Atkins said that,
although the committee’s final re-
port will not be completed until
next fall, he feels that a move to
winter rush is ‘‘inevitable.”’

“The subject of winter rush
came up in several committee
meetings and found its way into
the discussion process,’’ said At-
kins. ‘‘There is a strong sentiment
among the faculty that rush should
be moved from fall to winter.”’

Dean of Students Lewis John
said the recommendation must be
approved by President Wilson and
the Board of Trustees before any
action can be taken. “‘If it is ap-
proved, the subject of winter rush
will be turned over to the IFC, the
Student Affairs Committee and the
faculty for direction.”

Nash said the success of the
sororities’ winter rush will be a
major factor supporting a
campus-wide winter rush, *‘Anoth-
er important factor is the improve-
ment of the 1988 freshmen
pledges’ fall term grades since
pledgeship was deferred until win-
fer.

Atkins said the current rush
system is ‘‘a combination of Jaws
and Mardi Gras. It’s a feeding
frenzy for bodies. It leads to bad
will with the community and ani-
mosity between the students and
the faculty. Freshmen get the

} wrong perception of the fraterni-

”

lies.

Atkins also said a winter rush
would reduce competition and ill
Please see RUSH p.5.
 

 

et

‘OPINION
The Ring-tum Phi

?

"

%

 

 

a
THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

A bad decision
wisely reversed

The withdrawal from Washington and Lee of Execu-
tive Committee President-elect Hugh Finkelstein shocked
the university community. Suddenly, the chief Honor
System custodian for 1989-90, the leader-elect of an
1800-member student body, was gone. Finkelstein’s
withdrawal was an invitation for chaos, and, Monday
night, the EC answered that invitation. Then, Wednesday,
|, Teason returned to the University Center, in the form of
... @ 10-1 vote that will allow Willard Dumas, by succes-
sion, to become W&L’s next student body president.

First, the Monday night fiasco. Since the Student Body
Constitution includes no specific provision for replacing

the president-elect, the EC ended up spending more than

“two hours debating how Finkelstein could be replaced.
There were many sides to the debate, but they all boiled
down to this: was Dumas, as vice president-elect, the
student body’s choice to be Finkelstein’s successor? Or,
since Dumas had yet to take office, should a new elec-
“tion be called? A vocal group of students expressed the
_|, latter view, and the committee apparently listened. The
EC voted 5-4 — with Dumas abstaining — to hold elec-
, tions May 26, the earliest possible date — and the last
' day of classes.
‘t© Certainly a case can be made that, with school still in
' session and Dumas still out of Big-Three office, an elec-
|, tion should have been called. Nevertheless, we believe
. the EC should have allowed Dumas to become president.
jc If Finkelstein’s withdrawal had come any time during
the summer or the 1989-90 school year, Dumas would
automatically have taken over. A majority of the student
body elected Dumas vice president, and everyone who
voted should have known that the vice president’s prima-
4, Ty duty is to ‘fulfill the duties of the President in ab-
..sence of the latter, or in case of illness, death or with-
‘}, drawal from the University.”’

‘’ Furthermore, with the law school already out for the
* summer, it would have been amazing if even a single
‘ law student had had the opportunity to vote, let alone
4, Tun. While some undergrads may be indifferent to law
|. students, they are nearly one-fifth of the student body,
and they deserve to be heard, as loudly as they were
‘ when Dumas was elected vice president.

When the Monday meeting began, the EC seemed to
be leaning toward allowing Dumas to become vice presi-
, dent, and then president, on the day after Commence-
|. ment. De Movellan and others were concerned, and
rightly so, about leaving the law school out of a special
|'»election. Nevertheless, something swung a 5-4 majority
‘ in favor of electing a new president.

With that vote, we were suddenly faced with a critical
|, election on the last day of classes. We were faced with
|. compressed campaigns, a hurried election, low turnout
‘and a nightmarish situation of an election on exam Satur-
day if a run-off became necessary. We were faced with
“the prospect of an EC president who, having been
elected so late in the year, would preside at the first EC

meeting he attended.

Finkelstein’s withdrawal was crisis enough. Now, the
: EC had made it even worse.

Then came Wednesday night and a special EC meet-

ing. De Movellan had mustered the troops in his anti-
election campaign. The two law school representatives
who had been absent Monday were in attendance, ready
. tO represent the interests of their constituents — and, we
believe, of the entire student body.
* The common sense that had been strangely absent
from the University Center on Monday returned. After
voting 11-0 to reconsider, the EC voted 10-1 (with Du-
mas abstaining on both votes) to allow Dumas to take
office. A rash decision was rightly reversed.

The wheels of government may grind slowly — but
this time they ground correctly.

 

 

| The Ring-tum Phi

q THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Tri-Editors
Elizabeth Parkins, Heidi Read, Nancy Whalen

PSS GAINAL TOGO iss ctiissiscscciscacsssyeeeniness
Sey BOMBES asics siiiiersssets qicsermectiasassnsicas

Editorial Page Editor
HREStOPEGUASEAE ERCILOP cascsss4sscssczzczseses;oxseascrtssneltenssiassasitaesisa

 

  

Protea Biter... cescssssssessoes

SORES PBs ico oascsenstesusayaneasasaascssasciesncesteveisysssssesseaessisienot nite

Asssiatant Sports Editor........cossssescsrssssovsesssesssosssesserssesssssvsvsessesze Jay Plotkin
Beliteridl COPOMASE saccscsessivessseccceveserisccassetesanannsatneenicees Jeff Woodland
Business Managet............ssssessseseseroresscocecorssevscssessvceceees Christie Champlin
Advertising Mamager..............cssessccssssssrcossecessescoressoersssseosoereness Anne Dysart
Circulation Manager......:s:ssoresssssessesssosssessssscscessesatsecessosenseseses Karl Hanson
Assistant Business Mamaget..........:ssssssssssssssesesseressenrasssneeseees Fred Turpin

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
+ school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and Lee
. Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but
| The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
; Letters to the Editor and other submissions must be in The Ring-tum
i Phi office, Room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Tuesday
' to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi observes current
| court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899

' Lexington, Virginia
24450

ae ae os a ee a

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 18, 1989

 

 

an
2

     

"

yr Sk

/

I

aeeT.|

E .C. Meeting: May 7, 1989

a

a

  

pS

CY

a
he

“AR

  
   

 

 

Two views of the Spectator

A forum for
closed minds

By Laura C. Taylor

 

 

AUTHOR'S NOTE: The following is a
response to The Spectator, which failed
miserably in its attempt to provide ‘‘lively,
intelligent commentary’’ and instead only took
lame potshots at liberals, photographers,
women, and the faculty.

Once upon a time, in a small village not
far from a medium-sized city in the Virgin’s
commonwealth, lived a family of free thinkers,
who went to the local college, McCarthy &
Nixon University. These weren’t just any
ordinary free thinkers; these were free thinkers
that believed in an individual’s right to think
for himself. They weren’t free thinkers
because their father was a free thinker, or
because they might lose their inheritance (even
free thinkers can be wealthy), but because
they wanted to be free thinkers. And what did
they think about so freely? They thought that
ordinary people, just like themselves (being
free thinkers, they. never thought that they
were better than anybody else, not even the
close-minded thinkers), should be permitted to
live their own free lives, yet, when they
needed help, it would be available.

Unfortunately, these free thinkers lived in a
tightly controlled society that prevented them
from thinking freely. The people in charge of
this society were the evil close-minded
thinkers, who attempted to destroy any
semblance of creativity or individuality that
might dare to raise its head above the slime.
These close-minded thinkers dressed alike, the
men wearing navy coats, button-down oxford
shirts, Loontail pants, and loafers with no
socks, and the women wearing _ their
boyfriends’ boxer shorts undemeath pinafores,
and no shoes. All of them carried lacrosse
sticks everywhere they went, and drove
OMW’s (Old Money Wagons). They all
majored in history, politics, or business, but

Confronting
discrimination

To the Editors:

As an English teacher, I spend a lot of
time thinking about the rhetorical dimensions
of writing: the meanings of various choices
in manners of written expression. One of
the most rhetorically suggestive and self-pro-
tective writing devices, to my mind, is the
use of the passive voice. Choosing the pas-
sive instead of the active voice enables a
writer, consciously or unconsciously, to
fudge an apparently definite position, to dis-
tance himself from conclusions whose impli-
cations he may not be ready to embrace
fully or even to recognize.

In his ‘‘My View’’ column in the May 4
Phi, D. Ross Patterson chooses the passive
voice repeatedly. ‘‘Minorities’’ (presumably
individual members of ethnic minorities)
‘were discriminated against’; ‘‘equal oppor-
tunity legislation was instituted’’; “‘deserving
minority students’ achievements are cheap-
ened’. Specifying who performed this dis-
crimination and who introduced this legisla-
tion and how would make Mr. Patterson’s
sentences more direct, surely a goal of all
persuasive writing. But specifying who
cheapens ‘‘deserving minority students’
achievements’’ would seem to me to con-
front a key issue that his argument skirts but
does not directly address.

Who possesses these attitudes that deni-
grate the achievements of ‘‘deserving minori-
ty students’’? Among whom do these un-
fairly critical attitudes ‘“‘prevail,’’ and to
what extent? Surely the possession of these
unexamined ‘‘attitudes’’ that Mr. Patterson
assures us ‘‘prevail’’ among unnamed social

 

took Professor Abraham Lincoln Fudge’s
‘*Bishops for Idiots’’ class because he was the
Lord of the Close-Minded Thinkers’ Society,
and thought all free thinkers (and some
women) should be thrown into the sewer with
the Communists.

However, free thinkers began to infiltrate
the ranks of the close-minded thinkers; in fact,
the free thinkers were breeding like rabbits!
To prevent any further corruption of their
beloved university, the close-minded thinkers
devised a plan to utterly ridicule and humiliate
the nasty free thinkers: they would publish a
newspaper that would prove the superior
intelligence of the close-minded thinkers! To
be certain that this plan would be executed
properly, the close-minded thinkers elected one
of their brightest members, Phil Labarge, who
had voted for Richard Nixon when he was

The close-minded thinkers
devised a plan to humiliate
the nasty free thinkers: they
would publish a newspaper!
five years old, to found and edit this new

paper. They could not possibly fail, and the
free thinkers would scatter like flies around a

 

 

swatter! . ~ ‘

But because the close-minded thinkers were
so close-minded, they could not think of any
witty insults with which they could deride the
free thinkers. All they could do was to call
them names. ‘‘Lily-livered liberals,’’ cried
out the new paper, The Big Brother; ‘‘(Our
faculty] lost the political battle and are waging
war to brainwash the students of our
generation!’’ The close-minded thinkers were
a laughingstock, even among their own kind.
In seeking to eliminate free thinking, they had
proved their own ineptness. Within a few
short years, McCarthy & Nixon University
became Jefferson, Jackson, and Hoffman
University, named after Tom, Jesse, and
Abby, three great free thinkers, and the world
was safe for free thinking forevermore.

MORAL: David only needed a stone and a
Slingshot to waste Goliath. Next time, be a
little more creative with your insults, boys.

groups or individuals is more of a problem
than the accomplishments of those deserving
students.

Color and sex blind admissions may be
the goal Mr. Patterson desires, but I fail to
see how we can reach that standard of abso-
lute objectivity if we can’t even honestly
describe and accurately ascribe the racist
reactions that both follow affirmative action
policies and necessitated their introduction.

Sincerely,
Joyce G. MacDonald
Department of English

Fraternities or
sororities ?

To the Editors:

I am writing conceming an ad in last
week’s Phi. The ad congratulated Kappa
Alpha Theta Fraternity. There is no Kappa
Alpha Theta fraternity on campus that I am
aware of. There is however a sorority that
goes by that name. Let’s remember fraterni-
ties are made up of men. Sororities, on the
other hand, consist of women. I know this
is the eighties but let’s not get to pushy, and
please, let’s use the correct terms.

Sincerely,
Peter J. Coleman
Retired Fraternity President

EDITOR'S NOTE; While The Ring-tum
Phi does not edit advertisements for errors,
we appreciate Mr. Coleman's letter, because
it gives us an opportunity to explain why the
copy in the ad was correct, and to explain
our style for referring to W&L'S three Greek-

A defender of
tradition and
student rights

By Erick H. Rock

 

 

I would like to thank the founders of the
Washington and Lee Spectator for offering a
forum in which students can offer and
exchange views on both national and campus
topics. Although the first issue had minor
glitches in format, the overall content of the
magazine was excellent. In particular, I
believe the Spectator highlighted some
disturbing trends on this campus, among them
the demise of the speaking tradition.
Comments by alumni this past weekend only
confirm the validity of this complaint and the
need for the resurrection of this tradition. To
the best of my knowledge, while I have been
at Washington and Lee, no publication has
dared to specifically attack the encroachment
by faculty on student affairs as the Spectator
did in its commentary section. It was long
overdue, well worded, and written with a
genuine concern for the future of this
university. While the Ring Tum Phi does a
fine job with its focus on reporting campus
news it must remain neutral. The editorial
section of the Phi is simply too limited to
consistently voice the many issues that the
Spectator can handle. The Political Review,
although very well written, concentrates on
national topics.

The need for a publication such as the
Spectator is obvious. It provides a means of
student discourse on topics ranging from na-
tional legislation to new university rules.
Perhaps by allowing new avenues for student
opinion to be expressed we can help eliminate
the apathy which now exists on campus. I
agree with last week’s ‘YOUR VIEW’’ in the
Phi by Paul La Garde and Ray Welder and I
wish them luck in their next» issue.

letter women's organizations. Those groups
are chapters of Chi Omega Women's Fra-
ternity, Kappa Alpha Theta Fraternity and
Kappa Kappa Gamma Women's Fraternity.
Newspapers do not name organizations; or-
ganizations name themselves. Therfore, we
will refer to these groups by their self-
appointed names in our news columns. The
term “‘sororities’’ will be used only in the
generic sense or in headlines.

Triathlon story
corrected

To the Editors:

I would like to bring to your attention a
mistake in last week’s edition of the Ring
Tum Phi concerning the Theta Triathlon.

In the third paragraph of the cover article
headed ‘‘Theta sets triathlon for May 20,”’ I
am referred to as the person “‘...in charge of
the event....’” I would like to clarify this by
saying that Heather Logan is in fact heading
the project, and she has been instrumental in
its full planning and organization.

Thank You,
Morgan Warner

Thanks, profs

To the Editors:

I would like to take this opportunity to
thank the professors who excused seniors
from class while they were interviewing for
jobs.

Sincerely,
Edward C. Yu

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 18, 1989

3

 

Coeducation and the Class of ‘89

 

MY VIEW
By Kevin Struthers

 

As a member of Southern
Comfort, I travelled to seven
Washington and Lee alumni
chapters throughout the South
during February break of my
freshman year. The hot topic of
conversation among the alumni
was, of course, coeducation. Being
the only freshman in the group, I
was perhaps a little naive, even
that late in the year, to what all of
the uproar meant to the university.

There is no denying the fact
that Washington and Lee is a
better institution academically due
to coeducation. Back in February
of 1986, President John Wilson,
Alumni Director Dick Sessoms,
Development officer Farris
Hotchkiss, and _ then-Assistant
Alumni Director Buddy Atkins
made every attempt to spout pro-
coeducation dogma to alumni in
some very strong Washington and
Lee alumni chapters (including
Houston, Dallas, and Atlanta).
They wanted to stress that yes, the
university had made the right
decision in allowing women to
enter W&L and yes, coeducation
was just great back on campus.
**All one has to do is to compare
the grades of the women and the
men of the university,’’ these
administrators seemed to push,
“and better yet, the Class of ‘89’s
scores to those of the rest of the
‘single sex’ classes, to see that
coeducation is working!’’ Back on
campus the same type of
comparisons were being made by
everyone, including the faculty.

Everything is best’ in
moderation, as the old saying
goes. Everything in moderation.

In comparing the grades of the
women (all 100 of them) to the
1400 or so other students at the
university, the administration did
not help anybody make the
coeducation transition any easier.
The men of the Classes of ‘86,
‘87, and especially ‘88 became
known as the ‘“‘stupid’’ men who
were admitted to a single sex
college with low admission
standards. And what of the men
of the Class of ‘89? We were
tossed aside as ‘‘Oh, they’re the
ones that came in with the
women, aren’t they....’’ Thus, the
upperclassmen became even more
angry — and their anger often
became focused on the women of
our class — over coeducation and
what it meant to them: most of
them had enrolled not knowing
that the institution from which
they would graduate would be
coeducational. Why should they,
as students, have had to deal with
such comparisons, made by the
very people who wanted
coeducation to work in the first
place? The most ironic part of the
whole situation is that by
comparing grades, the mood and
attitude of the administration was
indirectly set for the next four
years: ‘‘the women were academic
goddesses who could do no wrong.

A college education was strictly
academic, right? After all, life
exists only within the classroom."’
The academic standards of the
university were not raised due to
the women of the Class of ‘89,
they were raised due to the 1984
decision by the Board of Trustees
to make our __ institution
coeducational. When the admission
standards increased due to a
larger applicant pool, the
standards increased across the
board. The men of the Class of
‘89 were not unacademic morons,
but they sort of became associated
with those ‘‘stupid’’ men of the
Classes of ‘86, ‘87, and ‘88, due
to the excitement generated by the
presence of the women. The
upperclassmen were told that the
Class of ‘89 was doing better than
they ever had, and the men of
these upperclasses therefore
associated this comparison with
the women only, as they were the
ones that seemed to bring about
this grandiose change: _the
administration, by making these
comparisons, also sent a similar
signal to alumni across the nation.
‘*Women were the salvation of
Washington and Lee, and they
brought the institution out of the
depths of despair and academic
laziness.” How do you think that
made the alumni feel? Were their
degrees from a single sex college
worth less? And what of the Men
of ‘89? Were we just here only to
party and date-rape women as
everybody else in the past had
apparently done, according to the
attitude of the ‘‘old’” W&L,
before September 1985? Of course
not: we ‘89 males entered with a
new academic standard, also. This

fact has been sadly overlooked, *

however, and is still overlooked
today. Mistakes of four years ago
are sometimes hard to correct.

For example, on a tour with
the W&L Choral groups this past
spring break, again to various
W&L alumni chapters, I met a
Board of Trustees member who
blindly possessed this similar
‘*Women as salvation’’ attitude,
which I hope is not shared by
everyone else on the Board.
During a conversation about the
increased academic standards of
W&L, this man said ‘‘Yes, those
women sure are smart.’’ I looked
at him and said, ‘‘Yes, they are
smart. But they are not directly
responsible for the new academic
environment at Washington and
Lee — for we all have entered
under higher standards — men and
women alike.’’ Are the men of
less intellectual value to the
university?

If coeducation is working, why
must a comparison be made?
Doesn’t that just fan the flames?
Even just last week, in the Phi,
the sororities and fraternities were
compared academically once again.
The difference between the
average GPA of the top sorority
and the top fraternity (of which I
am a member) were just a few
tenths of a percentage point apart.
What was the emphaisis of the
article? That the sororities were

higher than the fraternities. A
quote from an underclassmen in

“‘Talk Back’’ consisted of
something like ‘‘I guess the
women are just smarter.’’ Does
this really help anybody?

xe KK

Coeducation has done a great
deal of positive things for the
university. I applaud President
Wilson for his effort to make
coeducation a reality against
strong opposition. Coeducation
was a good move for W&L, but
at what price to the institution?
The women per se are not
responsible for the adverse
changes in the university, they
(like the men) are simply part of
the ‘‘new’’ W&L_ which

 

emphasizes academics on a higher
level. Is our reputation as one the
nation’s great teaching colleges
more important than a change in
the W&L atmosphere, however?

Gone are the days of the
Speaking Tradition. I don’t know
where they went, but it seems that
the camaraderie of the student
body has diminished  noticibly
within the past four years. I for
one understand that everybody has
a bad day once in a while, but
what’s wrong with a simple hello?
Are the sexes afraid that they are
coming on too strong to each
other just by making eye contact?
Or is it that everyone is too
worried about the test they must
take, or the pape: they must write,
or the Professor they must talk
as

The diversification of the
student body due to coeducation
(including the admission of
students from different regional,
economic, and social backgrounds)
after the Fall of 1985 has shifted
the political and social attitude of
W&L in a more mainstream
direction. This again, is not due
just to the admission of women,
but rather a different applicant
pool. This diversified atmosphere
is better for a new, expanded
academic environment which
fosters learning, and is in fact a
more healthy environment for
transition into the world outside of
W&L. I do not agree with the
extreme attitude of the traditional
Southem ‘‘Good OI’ Boy,” but I
do respect it, and can live within
its boundaries. I also disagree with
radical feminist dogma, as I
consider myself fairly openminded
when it comes to women’s issues
and am offended when, as a W&L
male student, it is assumed that I
hate anything remotely ‘‘pro-
womari.’’ What must be found is
a happy medium.... Everything in
moderation is best, right?

I am not happy with the
stereotypical idea of the men of
W&L as ‘‘good ol’ boy, bigoted,
anti-female, _let’s-party-and-trash-
the-fraternity-house so we can
laugh at the Hill’’ males out to
dominate the world. If the
administration wants to work with
the men of W&L in a
coeducational era, it must alter
their attitudes. Some of the W&L
women, too, might wake up and
realize that the entire student body
has been diversified, and no
longer do the attitudes of the
“‘old’’ W&L exist in such great
quantities, Everything is changing.
But in the same vein, I do
understand that all of the women
of W&L are not radical feminist
Gloria Steinham wanna be’s,
either. The administration would
have to be living in a time warp
to think that the women of W&L
have agreed totally with the
administration’s handling of the
entire coeducation affair, when
sometimes (such as in the case of
the grade mess, for instarice) the
administration has gone overboard
in trying to make the women feel
comfortable, at the men’s expense.
The men of W&L also might
want to alter their attitudes that
women here are all out to prove
themselves as women first, and
W&L students second. For this is
not true either.

The friendly, enjoyable attitude
of W&L students towards each
other has fallen by the wayside, as
W&L’s classroom has turned into
a cutthroat environment of ‘‘I
must get an ‘A’ in this class, I
must get an ‘A.’ The men and
women of the university seem to
scramble about, defending and
attacking attitudes which aren’t
n ily those of the majority
of students. It’s an unfortunate
Situation.

To become ‘‘one of _ the
nation’s great teaching colleges,’’
why must W&L strive to be
labelled “‘the new ‘this’ or ‘that’

Ivy League school of the South?”’
Why can’t it just be Washington
and Lee of Lexington, Va. — its
own, unique university? Must the
students of this university be
constantly be in competition with
each other?

Our most important and
cherished tradition — the Honor
System — has luckily —_ been

preserved throughout all of the
school’s many changes. It appears
that this time honored legacy has

not, nor is in danger of
disappearing.
eek eK
The coeducational transition
period is not over. President

Wilson, through his address at the
ODK/Founder’s Day ceremonies
this year, has shown that he is
indeed concemed, and rightfully
so, with the attitudes and actions
of certain factions of our
university. But is it right (to
assume that anti-coeducation T-
shirts, for instance, should not
surface every once in a while,
since their are still smoldering
ashes of the coeducation forest
fire which swept through
Lexington in 1985? ;

With any amount of change,
there is friction and hostility. The
faculty and administration should
realize that 236 years of an all-
male tradition (no matter how
hard the administration may try)
can’t be swept away in a matter
of moments. Tite
anticoeducationalists have just as
much right to voice their opinions
as the procoeducationalists. We
should not discriminate against
anybody.

As June 1 approaches and
Anne Coulling prepares to write
her graduation article for the
alumni magazine and President
John Wilson prepares his
graduation speech, let us hope that
the members of the Class of ‘89
and the alumni of this university
are not forced to once again have
coeducation the emphasis of talk
regarding commencement. The
W&L magazine summer issues of
the past three years have each
played up ‘‘‘this’ or ‘that’ historic
graduation.”’ I'd like to say one
thing: we are all students, at this
university - equal students. If
coeducation is working, why must
it still be an issue? Doesn’t the
Class of ‘89 stand for anything
else? Have we not been an
outstanding Class beyond
coeducation? Have we not suffered
enough? Can’t we leave with
some dignity?

I hope that Brian Shaw of the
News Office requests that hordes
of the press not be allowed to
cover commencement exercises
this year. It is not appropriate that
the Class of ‘89 leave W&L in
the same manner which we
entered: with press coverage
emphasizing coeducation. As a
member of the Class of ‘89, |
think that the women, and men
(yes, Virginia, there are men in
our class!) deserve better

 

 

Pub Board chief explains policy for new publications

 

By Betsy Anne Vegso

 

In view of the recent requests for recognition
of proposed publications by the Publications Board
(including the Spectator and the Southern
Collegian), and the probability of future requests,
the following addendum has been drafted for
inclusion in the Publications Board Constitution.
The addendum has been approved — unopposed —
once, and is expected to be confirmed at the next
meeting of the Pub Board, scheduled for May 22.

1. The Publications Board will not recognize
any proposed or existing publication which states
andlor demonstrates a_ political or cultural
ideology. Whether or not a publication has a
particular ideology shall be determined by a
majority vote of Publications Board members.

2. A proposed publication must fulfill the
following minimum criteria to the satisfaction of
the Publications Board in order to be considered
for recognition:

a. A written mission statement for proposed
publication.

b. A demonstration of how the publication
would fulfill a campus need which is not and
cannot be fulfilled by existing publications.

c. A proposed operating budget for first two
issues, included wherein:

-proposed size (# of pages, frequency of
publication)

-list of contracted advertisers and other
financial contributors

-printing costs

-roster of editors and staff members

-proposed topics, story ideas

d. Upon fulfillment of these criteria, as
determined by the Publications Board, the
publication will be granted 50% of operating costs,

not to exceed $500 per preliminary issue.

3. As a result of this grant, two consecutive
issues must be completed in one academic year,
produced on deadlines determined in advance by
mutual consent of the Publications Board and the
publication.

“The Publications Board will
not recognize any proposed or
existing publication which
states and/or demonstrates a
political or cultural ideology.”’

4. Upon fulfillment of items 1, 2 and 3 above,
to the satisfaction of 2/3 of the Publications Board
members, recognition will be granted. Until the
publication fulfills these criteria, recognition will
not be granted.

5. Recognition by the Publications Board
grants the publication the following:

a. Full voting membership to the Publications
Board, as described in the bylaws of the
Publications Board Constitution.

b. Notification of the Executive Committee of
the recognition of the new publication by the
Publications Board.

By setting up these procedures, we are
demanding from the proposed publications a
demonstration of serious commitment and
understanding of the responsibilities. We are not
trying to crush initiative. We are trying to help
the EC in determining whether or not allocation of
student-body funds is appropriate for proposed
publications.

There are several things to realize about the
five existing student-run publications. They are
meant to represent, individually and collectively,

 

 

the interests and abilities of the student body.
Because the make-up of the student body changes,
none of the publications have rigid guidelines as
to form or content. Each is extremely malleable,
to the extent that they can reflect outstanding
editorial leadership and student input as well as
incompetency and apathy. The only ‘‘check’’ is
the Pub Board, which exists in order to maximize
the quality of the publications and minimize the
problems. My poim is, they are exactly what
students make them. For this reason, we insist on
‘ta demonstration of how the publication would
fulfill a campus need which is not and cannot be
fulfilled by existing publications’’ (2b, above).

For example, had the organizers of The
Spectator pursued available opportunities (i.e. The
Ring-tum Phi, The Political Review) — indeed
only one of the organizers had ever demonstrated
an interest in writing for The Phi — they would
have realized how enthusiastically their articles,
editorials, ‘‘satires,’’ interviews, book reviews,
what have you, would have been received. On one
level, The Phi and The Political Review are happy
to have any submissions which express an opinion
with clarity and skill. On a more fundamental
level, these publications would have been happy to
have the articles because they represented someone
who had the motivation and genuine interest to
actually work on something other than their course
work.

I doubt the majority of the campus realizes —
and I know the editors of The Spectator don’t —
how limited and generally uncommitted the
number of student writers are. It is fairly easy to
eke out the text of a first issue on momentum
alone, but the editors of The Spectator will make
the sad realization that the editors of the W&L’s
existing publications made along time ago: most
W&L students apparently have neither the time

nor the inclination to write anything on a regular
basis that they won’t get academic credit for.
That’s why you see the same handful of names in
The Phi or any of the publications, NOT because
of favoritism or tyranny exhibited by editors.

Besides the limited number of writers, there
are several other problems with the launching of a
new student-run publication on campus. The EC
could spread the money across all the publications
more thinly, which could result in serious
debilitation of all the publications. The sparsity of
funds simply cannot be solved through advertising,
as that market is on the verge of total saturation
because of university solicitation and commercial
efforts. Persistent badgering of local merchants —
and alumni — for funds is unfair and potentially
damaging for our relationships with those groups.
We need to revitalize the publications we have
before we strain our resources by adding another.

The Publications Board is extraordinarily
aware of initiative: those who demonstrate it are
frequently granted editorial positions.

The positions are that easy to get. Had Paul
Lagarde and his associates directed their
substantial energies toward existing publications
this year, they would have been shoo-ins for
editorships. Their input and opinions and
leadership would have been welcomed by the Pub
Board, regardless of any political bias they would
have brought with them. A publication thrives and
becomes educational through editorial diversity,
not on rutted, insular sarcasm which ultimately
only consumes itself. Incidentally, the Pub Board
is currently struggling to fill next year’s Co-editor
position on The Political Review and an Editor-in-
Chief of the 1990 Calyx. I challenge whomever
is dissatisfied with these publications to apply for
these positions, and transform them into exactly
the publication you think W&L needs.

 

A tc SEE eh i EESTI He

I ne

 
NEWS

 

By Amy Hatcher
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s Class of 1939 returned to
campus last weekend for _ its
50-year reunion, bringing memo-
ries of the year that ‘‘Gone With
The Wind’’ won Best Picture,
Strains of ‘Moonlight Serenade’’
wafted from the Glenn Miller Or-
chestra and the Axis Powers
gained momentum in Europe.

When the Class of 1939
entered W&L, the United States
was in the depths of the Great
Depression, and when it was grad-
uated ‘‘everyone knew war was
coming and we were marked to
go,’’ said George Goodwin, Pulit-
zer Prize-winning journalist and
member of the Class of '39.

Although the coming war
helped bring an end to the
Depression, it shocked the genera-
tion that thought World War I was
“The War To End All Wars.”’
‘‘Our generation was schooled to
believe war was gone forever,”’
said Cecil Taylor, president of the

1939 Fancy Dress Ball. ‘Our
attitude was that it’s not going to
happen to us.”’

Sadly, it did happen to them.
Twenty-one of Taylor's classmates
died in World War Il, and one
1939 graduate died when Germans
torpedoed the British steamship
‘*Athenia’’ in September, 1939.

On campus in 1939, students
went to class six days a weck
dressed in coat and tie (freshmen
also wore beanies) and spoke to
everyone they passed. Class atten-
dance was compulsory except for
students on the Dean’s List.

As freshmen, the Class of 1939
was not permitted to have cars in
Lexington. Only ten percent of
W&L students had cars, and with-
out cars “‘there was nothing to do
but listen to phonograph records,

play poker, and go to_ the
movies,’’ according to James Mur-
phy, °39.

Most members of the Class of
1939 joined fraternities and ate
their meals at fraternity houses.
The only dining alternative on
campus was “‘The Beanery,’’ lo-

Buena Vista to get
Amtrak service soon

 

By Scott Richardson
Staff Reporter

‘‘All aboard Amtrak’’ may be
heard in Buena Vista by the end
of this year, the first time in more
than 20 years that passenger rail
service will be available to Rock-
bridge County.

The Amtrak Cardinal, a train
that runs between New York and
Chicago via Wasington D.C., will
be re-routed through Buena Vista,
City Manager Clay Goodman said.
The train currently runs through
Goshen and western Rockbridge
County, but does not make any
stops.

The re-routing means new Sta-
tion stops at Waynesboro, Buena
Vista and Buchanan, but the elimi-
nation of rail passenger service to
Staunton and freight service to the
Goshen area of Rockbridge Coun-
ty.

Lexington-Rockbridge Chamber
of Commerce President Leroy C.
‘“‘Buddy”’ Atkins said the loss of
freight service would have the
greatest effect on the Burke-
Parsons-Bowlby wood processing
plant at Goshen, which uses week-
ly rail shipments. But, he said

 

the plant does have sufficient
highway access for _ truck
transportation.

Amtrak and CSX_ Transporta-
tion Corp. are concluding negoti-
ations over the construction of the
station platform for Buena Vista,
said Marjorie Dyer, executive sec-
retary of the Buena Vista Cham-
ber of Commerce. Amtrak has
asked CSX to construct the plat-
form, which will probably be lo-
cated directly behind City Hall
between 20th and 21st Streets,
Dyer said.

Amtrak has asked Buena Vista
to provide security, lighting and
snow removal for the platform,
Dyer said. She said before the
negotiations can be completed, the
plan must be approved by City
Council. Dyer also said City
Council, area businesses and

The class of ’88 become alumni.
of ’89 graduates on June 1 at 11 a.m. Bac-

Southern Seminary Junior College
had all written letters of encour-
agement to Amtrak, supporting the
change of route.

The Cardinal, which usually
travels with about eight cars,
makes three round trips weekly
between New York and Chicago,
Amtrak spokesman Clifford Black
said. The westbound train will
stop in Buena Vista between 4:40
and 5 p.m. on Sunday, Tuesday
and Friday. The eastbound train
will stop on Wednesday, Friday
and Sunday at about the same
time.

The Cardinal’s schedule may
be expanded to provide daily ser-
vice, Black said. ‘‘If we can ac-
quire the capital funds to purchase
long-distance passenger cars it
might be possible,’’ he said.

The cheapest round trip ticket
to Washington from the Staunton
stop costs $39, said Betty Collins
of Travel Unlimited. She esti-
mated that several hundred tickets
are sold each year to area resi-
dents and students. The price from
Buena Vista should be about the
same, she said.

‘*The most expensive ticket is
$52, which is cheap if you com-
pare gas costs and parking expen-
ses,’’ she said. ‘‘The Cardinal is
especially helpful to area college
students headed to the Midwest.”’

The Rockbridge Weekly
recently noted the section of rail-
road between Charlottesville and
Staunton, part of which is to be
abandoned, is rich in history. The
book ‘Chessie’s Road’ by Dr.
Charles W. Turner, a retired W&L
history professor, points out that
the line was once part of the Vir-
ginia Central, a vital transportation
link for the South in moving
troops and supplies during — the
Civil War.

Claudius Crozet, the first presi-
dent of the Virginia Military Insti-
tute board of visitiors, built the
original tunnels for the railroad to
cross the Blue Ridge Mountains,
They were considered a major en-
gineering feat.

The class

The Ring-tum Phi, May 18, 1989

W&L ’39: beanies, ties and no cars Wison’s

cated where the Co-op is today,

but ‘‘no one ate there if they
could help it,’’ said Charles
Semple, °39.

At least one enterprising young
man took advantage of the lack of
dining choices: Vaughan Beale,
39, had a miniature store in a
laundry basket and made money
by selling milk and candy to the
students in Graham Dormitory
(now part of Graham-Lees Dormi-
tory).

Dean Frank J. Gilliam and
President Francis P. Gaines had
the strongest influences on the
lives of the Class of 1939, accord-
ing to the results of the 50th Re-
union Questionnaire.

Also from the questionnaire,
744 percent of the respondents
support coeducation today.  Al-
most half of the respondents who
did not agree with the decision in
1985 have changed their minds
over the past four years.

The reunited members of the
Class of 1939 also remembered
‘Herb the Dog-Man,’’ a Lexing-
ton resident who sold puppies on
the streets; westerns at the Lyric
Theater; four o’clock tea with
Mrs. Kennedy, the housemother at
the Delta Tau Delta house; W&L
on top of the old Southern Con-
ference in football and basketball;
and the Glee Club’s national title
at Lowe’s Theater in Washington,
Dc:

Wilson says university is financially sound

 

By Caly Smith
Staff Reporter

After Washington and Lee alumni had their
reunion assembly in Lee Chapel Saturday morning,
President John D. Wilson greeted the reunion classes
and elaborated on the state of the university.

He said, ““This is a moving occasion in the life
of this place to see you all come back in such num-

bers.’

Wilson said the state of the university is strong.
““We will welcome another very strong class next
year from all over the nation. We have students

 

Margaret L. Brouwer (center), assistant pro-
fessor of music at W&L, and two of her
students, sophomore Kathy Kreutziger (left)
and senior Lucy Anderson (right) try their
hand at different percussion instruments in

ions.””

coming from 38 states and some 10 foreign nat-

Wilson said the financial condition of the univer-
sity is also sound and attributed this in part to the
efforts of the W&L Alumni Association. He said,
“The great strength of this place comes out of the
generosity of Washington and Lee alumni. We give
thanks to you this moming.”’

Wilson said it is always General Robert E. Lee
that he comes back to. ‘‘No decision I’m called

upon to make is likely to get very far before I ask,

present.”

“What would he do?’ The moral courage of the kind
he displayed is a gift from the past that lives in the

 

 

 

From Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee Uni-
versity has received its first
major gift for the planned Fra-
ternity Renaissance program.
The $100,000 gift was present-
ed to the university by the Ca-
daver Society, a secret organi-
zation of Washington and Lee
alumni devoted to supporting
the university.

“The gift from Cadaver is
the first substantial investment
we have received for the fra-

 

Cadaver gives $100,000
for fraternity renovations

ternity renaissance program,’
said Farris P. Hotchkiss, vice
president for university relat-
ions. ‘‘Since a portion of the
funding for the program will
come from gifts, we are grate-
ful to Cadaver for its generous
and timely contribution.”’

Cadaver is a secret society
of W&L founded in 1957 as a
social club. Since that time the
organization has provided fi-
nancial support to the universi-
ty for a number of purposes,
including the Universicy Li-
brary.

 

 

calaureate is at 11 a.m. on May 31.
President’s luncheon follows.

 

File Photo

The

McMahon
appointed

By Staff Reports

Timothy G. McMahon has
been appointed assistant director
of the annual fund at Washington
and Lee University. He will as-
sume the position July 1, accord-
ing to Lex O. McMillan III, direc-
tor of development at W&L.

McMahon, a 1987 magna cum
laude graduate of W&L, has been
an admissions counselor at W&L
since July 1987. A journalism and
German major at W&L, he was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa and O-
mnicron Delta Kappa and was a-
warded the Distinguished Senior
Award in Journalism and the Jim
Stump Prize in German.

As assistant director of the an-
nual fund, McMahon will work
closely with the director of the
annual fund in designing and exe-
cuting successful strategies for ob-
taining unrestricted gifts from al-
umni, parents, and friends in sup-
port of the university’s current op-
erating budget. He will also assist
the director in training, guiding,
and supporting the class agents for
the annual fund, and will assist in
the planning and _ coordinating
class agents’ weekend and parents’
weekend activities.

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

preparation for the New Music Ensemble’s
concert on Monday. The program of classi-
cal music will also include a lecture by
Brouwer. The concert begins at 7:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel and is open to the public.

4

 

secretary
retires

By Joei Dyes
Staff Reporter

 

 

Betty C. Brewbaker, secretary
of Washington and Lee University
President John D. Wilson, is retir-
ing after nearly 18 years of ser-
vice.

She said working for President
Wilson has been a fantastic exper-
ience. ‘‘He is a marvelous person.
Nice to work for. He’s extraor-
dinarily bright; he never forgets
anything...ever.”’

“IT came here as temporary
help. Just a day by day thing. I
worked for Bill Watt (William J.
Watt, Professor of Chemistry) who
was the Dean of the College then.
It was supposed to be a day by
day thing, but it turned into 17
and a half years.”’

When asked how W&L has cha-
nged during the years she has
been here, she said, "I don’t think
it’s changed that much, even when
it went co-ed. Of course, there are
lots more people with the girls,
and the place is a lot more hectic.
Also, it was not as computerized
when I first came here, and we
now have more faculty and build-
ings."

She said that she supported co-
education. ‘‘I don’t think that
girls have changed things so
much. Kids are always competi-
tive. Students studied and played
hard then and they still do. The
girls have fit in real well. They
have done a good job.”’

Brewbaker said the worst inci-
dent she has encountered as_ Wil-
son’s secretary was when a group
of boys had a sit-in in the presi-
dent’s office to protest co-educa-
tion.

“Imagine how I felt, walking
into his office one morning and
seeing that 20 bales (of cotton)
had taken over the president’s of-
fice. It was a shock because I
was the only one who had a key,
and he was not going to come in
that day. They, of course, didn’t
know that he wouldn’t be in.
But, they were nice. They didn’t
do anything bad, but the TV
crews were in here running ar-
ound, Oh, it was traumatic.

‘This has been a very interest-
ing and challenging 17 years.
I’ve enjoyed all the people I’ve
worked for here.’’

Darn, no more checks

 

By Patrick Brown
Staff Reporter

 

Why is it that sometime during
the last month of spring term,
many stores in the Lexington area
stop taking Washington and Lee
and Virginia Military Institute stu-
dents’ checks?

Diane Potter, manager of the
Stop-In Food Store on North Main
Street, said it’s OK to take checks
until April 30 because “‘if any
bounce that they receive, there
will still be time to take care of
it. It gives us time to get our
money collected before the stu-
dents leave for the summer.”’

Potter said, ‘‘I probably have
the largest percentage of checks
returned, and most are from W&L
students.’

She said the W&L Cold Check
Committee paid Stop-In $271.16
last month for bad checks written.

Wayne Moody, an employee at
the Stop-In on Route 60 near the
Keydet General Motel, said he

was told by his manager not to
accept checks from students after
April 30 unless the student is a
regular customer.

“If the student is a regular
customer, his checks will be ac-
cepted until May 15,’’ Moody
said. ‘‘After the 15th, they (the
Cold Check Committee) won’t
guarantee the checks because there
isn’t enough time before the stu-
dents are gone.’’ Moody added
that the Stop-In Food Stores a-
round Lexington do accept checks
year-round from local residents.

Some stores such as Alvin-
Dennis and East Lexington Store
do accept student checks year-
round.

Becky Ayers, an assistant man-
ager at the East Lexington Store,
said, ‘‘Jim (the owner) takes them
year-round because we never have
many problems with them coming
back. Some VMI cadets go to
school here year-round and we
take their checks, so we _ take
W&L checks.”’

Class of ’89 prepares a time
capsule for its 25th reunion

 

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee class
of 1989 will be the school’s first
class to organize a time capsule,
which will be opened at its 25th
reunion.

The capsule will contain re-
minders of the class’s four years
at W&L, including t-shirts, bum-
per stickers, pictures, a tape of
popular music and other memora-
bilia donated by class members.
One classmate has suggested plac-
ing a condom and an article about
AIDS in the capsule.

“T was thinking about gradua-
tion, what we'd all be doing in
the future, and how neat it would
be to come back in 25 years and
take a look back at our four years
at W&L,”’ said senior Julie Saler-
no. She came up with the idea

earlier this year and began con-
tacting classmates. Fray McCor-
mick, president of the class of
1989, and senior Patience Jones
have helped Salerno.

All seniors received a_ letter
several weeks ago telling them
about the time capsule and asking
for suggestions and donations.
Salemo, McCormick and Jones
came up with a contact list of
classmates representing various
sports, majors, fraternities and ex-
tracurricular activities.

*‘We hope that everyone will
contact at least one of these peo-
ple with their ideas and dona-
tions,’” Salerno said.

Salemo said she hopes to
receive most items by May 24,
She said the capsule will be
closed the day of graduation, June
1, and won’t be opened until Spr-
ing Reunion in 2014.
= ~~ —

The Ring-tum Phi, May 18, 1989

 

Graduation set
for Law

 

By Staff Reports

 

Secretary of Commerce Robert
A. Mosbacher will deliver the ad-
dress at commencement exercises
for the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity School of Law on Sunday,
May 21.

The ceremony will begin at
2:30 p.m, on the lawn in front of
the Lee House, the president's res-
idence, on the W&L campus. In
the event of rain, the ceremony
will be moved to Warner Center.

Washington and Lee expects to
award juris doctor degrees to 115
third-year students in the universi-
ty’s 134th graduating law class.

A native of White Plains, N.Y.,
Mosbacher received his bachelor’s
degree from Washington and Lee
in 1947. He took office as the na-
tion’s 28th secretary of commerce
on Feb. 1 after being nominated
by President George Bush. Before
taking office, Mosbacher was chai-
rman of the board of the Mosbac-

, her Energy Company of Houston.

os

 

Mosbacher was a member of
the board of directors of Texas

Commerce Bancshares in Houston
and of the New York Life Insur-
ance Co. of New York. He was a
charter member and past chairman
of the All American Wildcatters
Association. He was a member
and past president of the Ameri-
can Association of Petroleum Lan-
dmen, a member of the board of
directors and executive committee
of the American Petroleum Insti-
tute, and a member and past chai-
rman of the Mid-Continent Oil
and Gas Association.

Long active in civic and busi-
ness affairs, Mosbacher is a foun-
ding member and past vice chair-
man of the American Business
Conference. He has also served as
a member of the boards of the
Aspen Institute for Humanistic St-
udies, the Boys Club of America,
the American Hospital in Paris,
the M.D. Anderson Hospital, the
Center for Strategic and Interna-
tional Studies at Georgetown Uni-
versity, the Choate School, the
Texas Heart Institute, and the Wo-
odrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars.

 

Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher

 

Senior EC

Attention: a 50-signature
petition for Senior Executive
Committee Representative will
be due on Monday, May 22 at
the mandatory meeting for all
candidates at 5:00. Elections
for the position will be held
Wednesday May 24, 9 AM to
4 PM. Ballot boxes will be lo-
cated at the ODK circle and
the University Library. Runoff
elections are on Friday May
26, 9 AM to 4 PM.

Senior job

Seniors wanting to discuss
new and additional approaches
to job search are invited to a
drop-in meeting with Dean
Heatley, Monday, May 22,
3:30-5:00 in Fairfax Lounge.

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

TAP a bag

Any professor who would
like to contribute canned goods
to TAP Community Outreach
and who didn’t receive a
brown bag, please leave your
donation in a bag or box out-
side your office on Monday
morning. Lambda Chi or Chi
Omega representatives will be
by during the day to pick it
up.

Finale for top

If you still haven’t been to
the top of House Mountain,
come along for the last climb
this year. We’ll leave at 1:00
PM on Sun., May 21 and be
back by 6:00. Wear sturdy sh-
oes; bring along rain protec-
tion, water, and something to
eat. Mect at Baker 106.

Basic rock

On Thurs., May 18, from
1:00 to 5:00 PM the Outing
Club will sponsor basic rock-
climbing instruction. No equip-
ment or experience is necess-
ary. Meet in Baker 109.

Here or there

A ___lecture-concert _ titled
“*From There to Here’’ will be
presented by W&L’s music
division Monday, May 22, at
7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The
public is invited to attend, free
of charge. The program will
include short selections of clas-
sical music composed between
1912 and 1989 performed by
the New Music Ensemble, a

 

group of selected student musi-
cians. An accompanying lecture
by Margaret L. Brouwer, assis-
tant professor of music at
W&L, will focus on the
choices composers have faced
since the early 1900s.

Bills are now being sent for
winter term debts. Spring term
grades will be held if not paid
before you leave for the sum-
mer. Please return all books
before you leave for the sum-
mer.

Seniors should check with
Mrs. Wilson after Wed. May
24 if unsure.

All summer checkouts are
for a 2-week period and not
for the summer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Janet E. Spahr (right), government documents librarian at
"Virginia Tech and president of the public documents forum
» for the Virginia Libary Association talks to Peggy Webster

Hays, documents librarian at W&L. Hays will succeed Spahr
* as president of the public documents forum.

 

RUSH

, (continued from page 1)

 

will among the fraternities, ‘‘Fra-
ternities and freshmen would find
themselves making better choices.
The whole rush process would be
much shorter and more casual.’’

} ‘Winter rush would be an ide-

al arrangement, but only under the
right circumstances,’ Atkins con-
tinued. ‘‘We need a more diverse
Student activities program that will
provide freshmen with alternatives
to the fraternities.”’

__“‘If the fratemity members look
at the situation from a different
angle, they will see its benefits,’’
said Atkins. ‘‘The fraternities will
lose very little revenue.”’

SENIORS!

Special Assistance Program

 

Probe LX

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

Office: 261-2112
Home: 463-1952

Call Doug Turrell W&L ’87 at Courtesy Ford-
Mercury and get details on 120 day deferment of
s first payment and college graduate cash back.

+ le tet

EC

(continued from page 1)
summer break.

“Tt would be ridiculous to
make students agree with a
committee they didn’t vote for,”’
especially since law _ school
organizations must petition the EC
for funds, Nave said. Nave also
stressed that talk of organizing a
separate executive committee for
law students may elevate to
action.

Fialcowitz mentioned that law
students are already concerned that
representatives as young as 18

years of age make decisions that

could greatly affect their lives.
Senior Steve Baldridge pointed

out that time limits will cripple

efforts for a spring election. He
explained that the constitution
requires an informational meeting
for the student body at least two
days after petitions are due in any
Big-Three election. Following this

requirement would’ lead to
elections on Monday, May 29.
A low tumout is __ likely,

Baldridge said, as students will
either be busy with examinations,
arranging to leave Lexington or
will have already left.

IFC President Kevin Nash said

 

motion passses 5-4-1
Yes: Edward Yu,

No:
Parker, John Fialcowitz

Absténtion: Dumas

Abstention: Dumas

Yes: McDonough
Abstention: Dumas

Monday
Absent: Dave Nave, Dan DuPre, law representatives

Chris Giblin calls for spring presidential election;

John McDonough, Giblin,
Brandon Canaday, Clayton Kennington
David Cobb, Christopher de Movellan, Alston

Abstention: Willard Dumas
Wednesday

Yu moves to reconsider Monday’s vote in favor of
spring presidential election; motion passes 11-0-1

Monday’s motion, upon reconsideration, fails 0-11-1

McDonough moves to hold a presidential election in
the fall; motion fails 1-10-1

Parker moves to hold spring election for senior
class represent-ative; motion passes 12-0-0

 

 

qe

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

 

Right

Pr

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

X

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

   

463-9588

@ Menrie's Hain tyler

  

 

  
   

Lexington, Va. 24450

  

Old Main St. Mall

SAB plans bands

 

By Patrick Brown
Staff Reporter

 

“I'd like to see a big concert
in the fall, similar to a big name
act like Little Feat, and if that’s
Successful, have another big con-
Cert in the spring, ’’ said Michael
Applebaum, entertainment director
of Washington and Lee Univers-
ity’s Student Activities Board.A p -
plebaum is in charge of booking
all bands for the S.A.B.

Next year, Applebaum said he
will have only two bands a month
in the General’s Headquarters.
But, he said he plans to have

Finale:

Sbar speaks out
By Jon Sbar

 

 

Because of important scientific
discoveries made by people with
post-graduate degrees, electron mi-
croscopes and white laboratory
coats, I must postpone my planned
article on Canine Movie Stars to
discuss humpback whales. Before
I get to the humpbacks I feel obli-
gated to reassure those readers
who might doubt my academic
abilities by discussing my impres-
sive scientific background. Along
with a rigorous junior high class
on the metric system, I grew up
in a home with a very abnormal
father. For readers who are think-
ing, "Big deal, my father’s abnor-
mal too, but that doesn’t make me
a rocket scientist," here’s a
dramatic re-creation which will
serve to give you a little taste of
what my early youth was like.

Setting: A cold October
evening in the Sbar living room. I
turn on the TV and begin watch-
ing the Happy Days episode in
which The Fonz tries to jump a
bus with his motorcycle.

Important action: My Dad, us-
ing the remote control, changes
the station to channel 3, (the pub-
lic television station).

that a decision to hold a second
election rather than allow Dumas
to take office by succesion could
lead to charges of racism from
outside observers, but de Movellan
was quick to note that no racist
overtones had emanated from any
of the discussions thus far and
suggested that race was not a
factor under consideration.

Senior Greg Dale provided a
reason why he believed fall
elections were also out of the
question. Dale argued that
members of the 1989-90 EC will
not be bound by a decision made
by members of the 1988-89 EC in
favor of fall elections.

Finally, Nave suggested that the
Board of Trustees will view a
special election as mismanagement
of student government poewers.

Arguments against a special
election bolstered calls _ for
succession. Countering the
argument that students did not
realize that a _ vice-presidential
candidate could succeed to the
presidency, Falk said that ‘‘It’s
implicit and explicit in this
country’’ that a vice-president will
succeed a president if the
president is unable to fulfili the
duties of his term in office.

Furthermore, a number of EC
members and students who
participated in\_the discussion said
that Dumas definitely has the
ability and experience needed to
be an effective president. Dumas,
a rising junior, has served as an
EC class repre-sentative during
both his freshman and sophomore
years,

more popular bands in order to
encourage a better turn-out. He
said he would also like to have a
few outdoor concerts on the Col-
onnade with free admission, but is
not sure if the S.A.B. can afford
it.

“This year we (the S.A.B.)
really took it on the chin, espec-
ially at the end, °’ he said.
‘We're in the red now.”’

Applebaum said he would also
like to have two bingo nights next
year, one in the winter and one in
the spring.

‘Last year’s Bingo Night was
a huge success, hopefully it will
carry over to next year, ’’ he said.

on whales

Important dialogue:

Dad: ‘‘Sorry son but I can’t
let you miss this great special on
the breeding habits of the African
Horny Toad.”’

Me: “‘Gee Dad that sounds in-
teresting, but I’m feeling this sud-
den attack of diarrhea coming on.
I better go upstairs.”

Dad: ‘“‘Ivll have to wait until
this program’s over.”’

Me _ (becoming desparate):
“You know Dad, I have to do a
science project for school and I’ve
been thinking about carbon dating
your Aqua Velva Cologne. I better
get started right away.”’

Dad: ‘‘Great idea son, we'll do
it together as soon as _ this
program’s over.”’

Now that I’ve assured readers
who may have doubted by scien-
tific abilities, I can get back to
humpback whales.

The interesting thing about
humpbacks is that, unlike most
people, they take time out from
their busy schedule of eating, mi-
grating and mating to sing long
harmonious songs about life. For
years scientists have assumed that
humpbacks only sing classical mu-
sic but thanks to a famous scien-
tist who analyzed over 500 whale
songs we now know that many
humpback song lyrics have a pro-
nounced rhyming structure. What
this means in scientific terms is
that there are humpback whale rap
singers. In the spirit of scientific
discovery I have asked a world re-
nowned humpback song translator
to send me a tape of a popular
humpback rap song. Here are a
few excerpts from a song the
whales call ‘‘The Whalebone
Rap’’:

Swam south for the winter and
rapped some rhymes on the way
until I settled into a_ nice
warm bay.
Drinking saltwater and chillin’
on a reef
I saw a big shark that had
Sharp teeth
During high tide I stay out late
cuz all the hot babes line up
to mate.
My name is Moby D. and I!
write my own rap
that book by Melville is whal-
er crap
When I get bored I walk on
land
And do some hiphoppin' with
a New York band
I've got barnacles on my back
but at least my Mom ain't on
crack

If you want your very own
tape of ‘‘Whale Bone Rap’’ please
call 1-800-MOBY-DICK, or send
$11.99 to my house. Call right
away, this offer is limited. If you
call right away, we will send you
a set of Ginsu knives and a Ronco
portable fishing rod, so don’t de-
lay.

SENIORS

Please report:
1. All job offers
2. Actual placements

(graduate or professional
school as well as employment)

To Career Development and Placement
Office, University Center,
by phone: 463-8595 or in person.

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

 

By Jay Plotkin
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Last year, he earned All-
America status six times. This
year, he earned A-A status five
times and added to that the
distinction of being national
champion in the 200-yard
backstroke. Next year, he will
captain the swim team.

Add one more feather to
the impressive cap of junior
swimmer/water polo player Da-
vid Olson. The Ring-tum Phi
has named Olson its Athlete-
of-the- Year.

Olson’s 1:53.14 time in the
200-backstroke made him
Washington and Lee’s second
swimming National Champion.
He also earned All-America
status in the 200 individual
medley, 100 back, 200 medley
relay and 400 medley relay.
In 1988, Olson also earned
All-America status in those
events.

Olson described the feeling
he got after winning the title in
the 200-backstroke after finish-
ing a close second in 1988.
“I was frustrated after last
year, just missing the title. I
didn’t want to deal with that
frustration again. After I won,
it took a while for it to hit me,
and the more I thought about
it, I got more and more psy-
ched about winning the race.
It took awhile to actually real-
ize what had happened.”’

Olson is not one who will
spend a lot of time talking
about himself or his accomp-
lishments. Said W&L head
swimming coach Page Remil-
lard, ‘“‘David is the kind of

 

Olson ‘leads by example’

person who is quick to point
out the accomplishments of
other athletes, and he probably
tends to downplay his accom-
plishments more than his coach
does and his teammates do.”

Olson will be vocal when it
comes to leading the swim
team. Said freshman Jodi Her-
ring, “He gets everybody tog-
ether. | When people aren’t
standing up cheering on a
teammate, he is usually the
one who gets them up
cheering.”

Said senior David Dietz,
“‘He’s not an overbearing per-
sonality, but the confidence he
has rubs off on everyone else.
He just leads by example.

“‘He’s so successful because
he is so talented. For a team
to be good, they must have
that one talented person who
can come through when every-
thing is on the line. For us,
David Olson is that person.
We can always count on him
to win for us in the backstroke
and in the medley and get us
off to a good start in the rel-
ays. [His winning] is almost
automatic because he is so tal-
ented.”’

Olson has gotten a lot of
support from his family, and
according to senior Jeff Ber-
caw, it’s noticeable in his per-
formance. ‘‘Whatever he says
he’s going to do, he’ll do his
best to accomplish those
things. I think he gets that
from his parents, who are al-
ways there to support him.”’

Said Olson, ‘‘My parents
try to make every meet they
can. I tend to swim better
when I know they are their
watching me.”’

The Ring-tum Phi, May 18, 1989

 

 

David Olson

A junior from Fairfax Sta-
tion, VA, Olson spends the
majority of his academic time
in the C-School, majoring in
business administration and ac-
counting. His time in the C-
School has been very
productive, as Olson is a
Dean’s List student.

Said Remillard, ‘‘Dave sub-
scribes to the ‘if you’re going
to do it, do it the best you can
and so it right’ attitude, not
only in the pool, but in the
classroom as well. He’s an
excellent student.”’

Olson has not given serious
consideration to what he will
do after. he graduates. ‘I
don’t have any real goals set
right now. Hopefully I'll get a
job that I like and I'll take
things from there.”’

Congratulations to David
Olson, NCAA champion in the
200-backstroke and The Ring-
tum Phi Athlete-of-the-Year.

Said Remillard, ‘“‘If David
Olson is your friend, then you
have a very, very good friend.

 

 

Hathorn is two-of-a-kind

 

By Jay Plotkin
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Last season, Janine Hathorn
took charge of a women’s la-
crosse team in its first year of
existence. Playing only exhibi-
tion games, the team finished
4-7.

This season, in its first sea-
son of NCAA play, Hathorn
guided her team to a 7-8 rec-
ord, a third-place finish in the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence regular season standings
and semifinal finish in the
ODAC tournament.

In the fall, Hathorn turned
the women’s soccer team into
contenders in just their second
varsity season. She was
named ODAC Women’s Soccer
Coach-of-the- Year.

For her efforts, Hathorn has
been selected as The Ring-tum

Phi  Coach-of-the-Year for
1988-89.

Although Hathorn took
guidance of two fledgling

programs at W&L, she proved
at Denison University that she
had the coaching prowess to
make winners out of her
teams. In the five years she
spent at Denison, her record in
lacrosse was 53-19, including
five North Coast Athletic Con-
ference championship teams.
Hathom arrived at W&L
after applying for what is now
Cinda Rankin’s job. ‘‘I kept
in touch with Coach McHenry,
actually, he kept in touch with
me. When he was given the
okay to hire a women’s coach
for soccer, lacrosse or some-
thing, he got in touch with me

and asked if I was interested.
It was something that I had in
the back of my mind for a
couple of years before this ev-
er took place, and I left be-
cause I was interested in start-
ing a program from the ground
level, and see what I could do
with that.”’

At W&L, she has turned
two beginning programs into
contenders for conference titles
in just their first and second
seasons of NCAA play. She
Says there is no secret to the
instant success of her teams.
“IT would contribute it to the
fact that I really work hard in
trying to get people to enjoy
what they are doing and enjoy
hard work, which is hard work.

I guess it’s worked because of
the mix of students I’ve had
and knowing the kind of wom-
an I’m going to coach and
knowing how to deal with that
woman and what it takes to
get that person to recognize
and achieve things in them-
selves. This is a potential situ-
ation, where as I work on what
each person’s potential is. I
try to reinforce as much of the
positive as I could. It takes a
lot of hard work and very
willing students, and so far,
I’ve had all those ingredients.”’

One beneficiary of Hat-
horn’s coaching ability was la-
crosse goalie Erica Ingersoll,
who made 144 saves in the
last 10 games. Said Hathorn,
“She was continuing on in a
rut that I knew she could get
out of, and I just said things to
her that I thought she needed
to hear, and try to alleviate
pressure.”’

6

The Phi selects Athlete, Coach-of-Year _

 

 

 

 

Jan Hathorn

eel ets

Her greatest moment in
coaching came while she was
still at Denison. In her last
season, her lacrosse team went
10-1 before losing in the first
round of the NCAA tour- 4
nament. ‘‘As far as an exhil-
arating and cloud nine feeling,
it was the last season I coach-
ed lacrosse at Denison. We
were undefeated through the
regular season. Every player
on that team was a player that
I had coached every year they
had been there. We had a
very good team and we had a
blast playing together. We set
out to be undefeated and we
accomplished that. Something
about that season, maybe be-
cause I knew in the back of
my mind that it would be my
last one there, that really
stands out. Something about
the students, especially the
girls on the team.”’

Congratulations to Jan Hat- ,
horn, The Ring-tum  Phi’s
Coach-of-the-Year for 1988-89.

 

 

Tennis nets fifth-place finish in

 

By Stu Sheldon
Staff Reporter

 

A little bit of misfortune hurt
the Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team at the Division III Na-
tional Tennis Championships in
Kalamazoo, Mich.

Team competition began on
Monday. Going in to the week-
long tournament W&L’s netters,
who are the defending national
champs, were seeded fifth.
According to the structure of the
tournament, the top four seeded
teams would play the second four
in a random order. The first
round pairings were determined by
a lottery, which was held on the
morning of opening day.

The Generals felt good about
facing three of their four potential
first-round opponents: Washington
College, UC-Santa Cruz, and Kal-
amazoo. The one team that could
give them fits was Swarthmore.
Guess who W&L faced in opening
round action.

Swarthmore had beaten W&L
6-3 earlier in the year, and the
Little Quakers’ depth was to be a
stumbling block again for the
Generals, who lost 5-3. The score
might have been the same. this
time, if the No. 2 doubles match
hadn’t been stopped due to a
mathematical win for the Little
Quakers.

The match did have several
bright spots for the Blue & White,
however. At No. 1 singles, junior
co-captain John Morris defeated
Andy Mouer, who was_ ranked
15th in the nation, Mouer and
Morris have always been involved
in heated competition, but this win
was just a little lop-sided.

Morris schooled Mouer in the
first set, winning 6-1. Morris
needed 20 tie-break points to
squelch Mouer in the second,
locking up the straight-set win 7-6
(11-9).

 

audiotronics

VIRGINIA'S STEREO SPECIALIST
YAMAHA ALPINE
DENON BOSTON
B&O cwDd
KEF SONANCE
SIGNET Bak
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

W&L’s second big gun, senior
co-captain Bobby Matthews, also
won his match in straight sets.
Matthews whipped 18th-ranked
Steve Tignor 6-4, 6-2.

The consistent play of the
these two players has been the
cornerstone of the Generals’ attack
during the 1988-89 season. Un-
fortunately, Swarthmore proved
overwhelming at the lower num-
bers.

Senior Robert Haley, playing at
No. 3, lost to the Little Quakers’
Lindsay Williams. After losing a
close first set, Williams rallied to
tie the match at two each, and
then pulled out the win, 5-7, 6-2,
6-3.

W&L sophomore Bill Meadows
quickly fell to Swarthmore’s
Cantine. The Little Quaker’s No.
4 man locked up the match, 6-4,

6-4. Freshman Reid Manley
dropped the No. 5 match in
Straight sets as well.

Swarthmore’s Dailey swept him 6-
2, 62. W&L junior netter Billy
Tunner held out for three sets
against Lee Tucker, but finally fell
6-3, 4-6, 4-6.

The Generals seemed very
much alive after singles, down 4-
2. A sweep of the doubles, like
they did last year against UC-SC
for the title, would mean a berth
in the semifinals. The problem
was evident, however: W&L’s
depth was not there.

The always stellar No. 1 pair
of Morris and Matthews did its
job, defeating Mouer and his
sophomore partner Jim Stahley, 6-
2, 6-4. The No. 3 pairings, pit-
ting W&L’s Malye and Tunner
against Swarthmore’s Cantine and
Tucker combo, was also handled
in straight sets, but by the Little
Quakers. Cantine and Tucker
clinched the first round win for
Swarthmore 6-2, 7-5.

W&L rallied hard on the sec-
ond day of the tournament. Tues-
day’s foe was the Sagehens of Po-

 

mona-Pitzer College.
were fully-plumed, with a 20-2
record, going into the match, but
would leave with their tail feathers
plucked.

   

The ‘Hens

In this, its first National Tour-

nament appearance, Pomona-Pitzer
learned a quick lesson on Tues-
day.
the match quickly, winning two
singles matches in straight sets.
W&L won all six singles duels.

W&L assumed control of

At No. 1, W&L’s Morris de-

feated his opponent, Paul Cross,
6-1, 2-6, 6-3. This win was most
impressive because Cross, also a
junior, is ranked No. 1 in the na-
tion by the Intercollegiate Tennis
Coaches’ Association.
ranked Sth in the same poll.

Morris was

Matthews, a consistent winner

for the Blue & White, continued
in his ways against the Sagehens.
Matthews
freshman Reid Newhall 6-3, 6-7,
6-2. Newhall had been undefeated
against Division III opponents be-
fore the tournament.

beat Pomona-Pitzer

W&L scored two straight set

wins at the 3 and 4 positions.
Haley and Meadows both beat
their "Birds by identical scores, 6-
3, 6-2.

Two more key three-set wins

came from the No. 5 and 6 spots
in the Generals’ line-up. Manley
rallied from one set down to beat
’Pitzer’s Muhm 4-6, 7-5, 6-1.
Tunner allowed his opponent, We-
iss, no games in the third set,
completing W&L’s sweep of the
singles.
2, 3-6, 6-0, the Generals were as-
sured of playing for Sth place.

With Tunner winning 6-

W&L’s only doubles win came

from the No. 3 pair of Manley
and Tunner.
Sagehens’ pair of Addiego and
Gold 6-4, 5-7, 7-5.
Pitzer’s No. 1 doubles pair beat
. Morris and Matthews, an_ upset.
The Pomona pair, ranked 7th na-
tionally, won in straight sets 6-3,
7-5, __Haley and Meadows fell in

They defeated the

Pomona-

JOB OPPORTUNITY:
NATIONAL CHILDREN’S MAGAZINE seeks sales as-

sociates in your area. Part-time and full-time. Send
resume to P.O. Box 2421, Tuscaloosa, AL 35403.

 
       
     
 

Hairstylist

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Open Evenings
Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

tourney

three sets, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4, to their
West Coast opponents.

With their 6-3 win over the
rookie Sagehens, the Generals ad-
vanced to face UC - San Diego
on Wednesday. If the Blue &
White were to win against the Tri-
tons, it would be their fourth top-
five finish at the tournament.

W&L jumped out to a quick 4-
2 lead after singles, including
three straight-set wins. Morris
disposed of San Diego junior Sig
Huber 7-5, 6-2, and Matthews
manhandled Francois Monnar 6-1,
6-2. W&L’s Haley made it three
straight by overpowering San
Diego’s Mark, winning 6-0, 6-3.

UCSD struck back, with pow-
erful freshman Chris Belloli handl-
ing Meadows 6-3, 6-1. The
Tritons also won at No. 5, with
Park beating Manley 6-4, 6-2.
Billy Tunner stopped W&L’s slide
and brought the Generals within
one point of a win by beating San
Diego’s French in two close sets,
6-4, 7-5.

Morris and Matthews clinched
fifth place for the Blue & White
by defeating Huber and Belloli in
straight sets, 6-2, 6-2. At No. 2,
Haley and Meadows needed 10
tie-breakers in the third to beat
Monnar and French 5-7, 6-3, 7-6
(7-3). The Tritons’ No. 3 pair of
Mark and Ditzler returned W&L’s
earlier favor, beating Manley and
Tunner 6-2, 6-2.

W&L clinched a_ fifth-place
finish with a final score of 6-3.
In other team action, UC - Santa
Cruz defeated Swarthmore 5-4 for
the national title. Kalamazoo beat
Washington College 6-3 for third,
and Sewanee beat Pomona-Pitzer
for 7th. Brandeis, and, surprising-
ly, Claremont, did not advance to
regular tournament play. Brandeis
won the battle to finish 9th.

The second half of the week-
long tournament will feature both

 

Senior Bobby Matthews, along with teammates John Morris, °
Robert Haley and Bill Meadows, will vie for individual titles at +
the NCAA tournament.

singles players to the brackets, as

well as a strong doubles team.

In singles action, W&L_ has
Morris, who
has defeated several higher-ranked
Division III players as well as the
No. 2 netter at the Division II lev-
el, is seeded third, and Matthews
is ninth, Haley and Meadows will

two seeded players.

Photo

r

Matthews could find themselves in*
the championship match. ;
W&L’s hopes for a_ national
title seem brightest in doubles.
Morris and Matthews, whol
finished second to Claremont’s j
pair of Frank Hinman and Lance
Au in 1988, are seeded fourth, buty
have the potential to do better.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

individual singles and doubles be seeded according to another Both championship matches will”

tournaments. W&L_ sends four lottery. _ Either = Morris _ be played on Sunday. y
Efficiency apartment downtown for two, montly rent LEXINGTON
$225. Also one, 2 bedroom apartment within walking SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
distance from the school for $425 per month. Cail roy
463-1801. adies

, Memorable Dining In Gracious and Accessories

 

=: te
EE) FE EEE
FEVER RENEE:
CEI EEL PEE

1 Mii St
Stauntcn, Va
885-3409

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, Italian And

Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 pi to Close

Reservations suggested

 

 

 

 

 

23N. Main St. (703) 463-5988

 

 

 

a ae

 

 

 

 
 

DALY

 

(continued from page 1)

ionship.”’
McHenry is not saying W&L
teams should take on 4a

win-at-all-costs mentality. Instead,
he would be satisfied as long as
each program is doing its best to
provide, what he calls, ‘‘an oppor-
tunity for success.”

‘I’ve always believed that it’s
important for our athletes to have
that opportunity. You certainly
have to have a reasonable chance
for achieving success in a particu-
lar sport. I’m not for having an
athletic program just to have an
athletic program.”’

But success or the opportunity
for success is sometimes difficult
to obtain and sustain at schools
such as W&L, where recruiting,
which many coaches proclaim to

» be the key to a winning program,
is hindered by the academic stan-
dards that must be met before a
student-athlete is granted admis-
sion. Therefore, when a athletic
“team fails, sometimes the blame
falls upon the admissions depart-
* ment.
. “The fact of the matter is,
with 3,300 people vying for 400
* places, we’re really in a luxurious
position of being able to select
people who are both gifted intel-
" lectually and capable of doing oth-
er things extremely well also,”
says William Hartog, director of
, W&L’s admissions department.
‘Tl think that’s the general goal.
* But the one variable that they all
, Must possess is a strong academic
record.”
Hartog uses the analogy of a
,, baseball fan going to a ballgame
to describe the admissions process.
An applicant’s academic record is
, that person’s ticket into the ball-
" park (consideration for accept-
’ ance), but it’s the person’s special
. qualities or talents that helps him
find a seat (acceptance). ‘‘If you
‘don’t have an academic record
strong enough to get yourself into
_ the ballpark, then there is no spe-
‘cial talent that will cause the
admissions committee to accept
_ you.”
"What gets one into the ball-
¥park? According to Hartog, a rule
gof thumb is that the student must
“place at or above the average of
#the bottom quintile (20 percent) of
gall the students being offered ad-

~

>

“mission: ~An~example would ~be~

"this fall’s incoming class. The
@average student scored about 610
40" the verbal and about 660 on
the math portions of the SATs and
éwas in the top 10 percent of his
class, says Hartog. The average
for the bottom quintile of this
“class would be approximately 530
gverbal, 590 math and top 18 per-
cent, according to Hartog.

* “So a recruited athlete’s aca-
‘demic record must be as strong as
_that bottom quintile, or we cannot
“consider him,’’ Hartog says.

University President John Wil-
son says he understands the im-

“portance of athletics at W&L, but
the is also not one who thinks the

hool should lower its standards
or athletes.

® ‘‘There’s no question that ath-
jletic participation is of wide cam-
~ interest,’ Wilson says. ‘“‘It
joes develop the morale of the
student body, and the students do
et interested and excited about a
uccessful team. That does consti-
gute a contribution to the universi-
ty. :
* “However, I think it would be
@ very bad mistake to start admit-
ns athletes who were below the
ccept level. The athlete should
pe in that accept group -- he can-
not be below it. In many of our
Sister institutions, the athlete is
Selow the accept group. He’s an
exception of some special kind.”’

A question still remains: Can
an athletic team be successful in
such an academic environment?
McHenry says yes.

‘Coaches have to compete hard
or student-athletes who are com-
etitive admissions-wise. It’s im-
‘ortant that [the athletic depart-
aent] work closely with admis-

ions and try —te attract
student-athletes who are qualified
nd can meet the admission stan-
lards and hopefully will be admit-
ed,’

“IT think you can, too,’’ says
Bob Clements, a 1980 graduate of
W&L and member of the last
N&L lacrosse team to eam an
invitation to the NCAA Division |
Championship Tournament.
Clements, who was named a first-

team All-America goalie after that
1980 season, heads the Baltimore
Ghapter of the Alumni Associa-
tion, one of the more active
groups when it comes to following
WA&L lacrosse.
€ ‘*You have to give the admis-
» ylons department some credit,’’ he
eo “Anything this school can
'

    

 

 

What’s in store for lacrosse in the near future?

be successful in — be it football
or lacrosse — is a bonus in my
opinion.

“I think [the alumni] in Balti-
more and everyone who has
played lacrosse for W&L and fol-
lows the team is somewhat disap-
pointed by the past two seasons.
One just hopes it gets better.’’

According to Wilson, W&L
alumni are ‘‘very outspoken about
all aspects of the university.”’
However, lacrosse’s status as one
of W&L’s ‘biggest traditions, one
of its mainstays’? — as Clements
describes it — has definitely been
an issue that several alums have
spoken up about. And the one
person who has come under fire is
head coach Dennis Daly.

“‘No question about it,’’ an-
swers Clements, Daly is under
pressure from the Baltimore alum-
ni. ““They are going to look at the
coach. It’s the nature of the busi-
ness. Regardless if [Daly is] right
or wrong in his coaching de-
cisions, he’s going to take some
heat.’’ ee hey oe be

“T don’t think the alumni are
well-informed as to the problems
that currently exist with our eff-
orts to be successful,’’ says
McHenry. ‘“‘I think it is [an over-
reaction], yes.”’

“I don’t think their frustration
is an overreaction, just where
they’re directing their criticism,”
says John Ware, a _ senior
co-captain of this season’s lacrosse
team. Ware, an attackman who
has been one of the cornerstones
of the Generals’ offense the past
three years, puts the blame back
on the admissions department.

“The problem, as far as I can
see, is the admissions policy,’’ he
says. ‘‘I don’t think [the alumni}
are being fair to coach Daly.”’

“The flag is up,’’ says Daly.
“‘People are looking. I think that
that is fine — to look — and I
think that people should look.’’

“W&L is definitely going to
honor the next two years of Den-
nis Daly’s contract which is until
1991,’’ he says, ‘‘but it’s still un-
decided whether Dennis Daly’s
responsibilities will be of head
lacrosse coach. That’s undecided.
That’s still under review.”’

* * k *

It has been an up and down six
seasons for Dennis Daly. After
taking over a program in 1984
that was Division I in name only,
Daly’s teams suffered through
three straight losing seasons before
the decision was made to change
to Division III. Then came the
Final Four finish in 1987 — and
with it high expectations — and
then the two sub-par seasons.

Daly has analyzed his team’s
difficulties, and he sees the prob-
lem as twofold. One is a lack of
communication while the other is

a lack of consistency.

The communication gap stems,
according to Daly, from a state-
ment made by W&L’s Athletic
Committee in its recommendation
for lacrosse to drop from Division
I to Division Ill. Says Daly,
“The committee said that ‘the
switch from Division I to Division
III status should be coming by a
commitment to excellence with a
goal of winning a championship.
The committee recommends that
the administration voices commit-
ment publicly and increases sup-
port, especially in recruitment ef-
forts on behalf of lacrosse.’

“I, as head coach, am not
aware of any public statement fol-
lowing that recommendation to
publicly commit administration
support for lacrosse to go for the
national championship.

“The problem is someone has
got to come out and define what
the goal is, and I don’t think
that’s been done,”’ he says. ‘‘No
one is really certain — or it hasn’t
been stated publicly — where we
want specifically the lacrosse pro-
gram to go. The public commit-
ment has not been made. We’re
still arguing what level of success
we want to be versus how we’re
going to get there. There are so
many variables that aren’t de-
fined.”

Daly thinks the first step
should be for the president, athlet-
ic director, director of admissions,
an alumnus and the coach to sit
down and discuss the specific
goals of the lacrosse program and
the exact course of action neces-
sary to realize those goals.

“Let’s get a meeting of every-
body and decide what we are go-
ing to do,’’ he says. ‘“‘The best
we can be is the best in Division
III, but no one has really sat
down and said, ‘Okay, but what is
it going to take?’”’

Ware agrees. ‘‘I don’t think
{university officials] have sat
down and decided where they
want their athletic teams to go.”

As for the consistency, or lack
thereof, Daly attributes this prob-
lem to coeducation, constantly ris-
ing admissions standards and a
frequently changing coaching staff.

Coeducation has resulted in a
drop in male enrollment, while
academic requirements have risen
due to a marked increase in appli-
cations. Daly, who became head
lacrosse coach at Amherst during
the school’s third year of coeduca-

tion, sees parallels between
W&L’s athletic dilemma and
Ambherst’s.

According to Daly, the male
athletic talent ‘‘bottomed out’’ the
year he arrived in Amberst yet
rebounded after the coeducation
situation was totally settled and

RESTAURANT

 

the climbing standards had leveled
off. He predicts the same phen-
omenon will occur here at W&L.

“I know people are getting im-
patient, but I see the program
Starting to stabilize itself right
now. I think what it’s going to
do in the next three or four years
is more indicative of what the fu-
ture holds then what’s happened
the last couple of years. I think it
has been a result of the adjust-
ment to coeducation. I’m speak-
ing from experience of what hap-
pens to a large-team sport.”’

Does this mean that W&L can
once again compete for a lacrosse
national championship? Ironically,
it seems that a _ Division III
school’s admissions department,
which mainly concentrates on aca-
demic matters, can also provide a
path for athletic success.

“‘T think there’s more hypocrisy
in Division If] than in Division
I,’ says Hartog, who personally
reviews each student-athlete’s tran-
script if he is being actively rec-
ruited by one of the programs.
“Like it or not, Division I at least
has an admissions policy concern-
ing athletes. Some Division III

schools profess to be academic
institutions and yet make except-
ions,”’

Daly agrees. ‘“‘It’s not even
close,’’ he says. ‘‘Most of the
schools have lower standards than
ours to begin with, but then they
will make exaggerated exceptions
for their athletes in specific sports.
It’s out there and it’s happening
all the time.”’

In light of these transgressions,
Hartog views a national title as
out of W&L’s grasp.

“IT don’t believe that it’s im-
possible for us to be competitive
in lacrosse and to be among the
top ten or twelve schools in la-
crosse,’’ he says. ‘‘But I do think
that it will be virtually impossible
for us to win a national champion-
ship in lacrosse.”

“T don’t think it’s impossible
for us to be national champions,”’
says Daly, ‘‘but I don’t think it’s
possible for us to consistently win
a national championship. I think
it’s possible for us to consistently
be in the tournament.’’

Ware takes a slightly different
stance. “‘If you play in the NBA,
you want to win the champ-
ionship. If you play football, you
want to win the Super Bowl. If
you play W&L lacrosse, you want
to play for a national champion-
ship. Under [the admissions de-
partment’s} philosophy and_ their
idea of success, I don’t think you
can,”

Says Clements, “‘If the school
wants tO maintain some lacrosse
stability - somewhere, somehow,
something has got to change.”’

Authentic Chinese Cuisine

Luncheon Specials ¢ Extensive Dinner Menu
Beer * Wine @ Exotic Cocktails
Catering Available

Sunday Buffet 11:30 A.M. - 3:00 P.M.
Lunch and Dinner

7 Days A Week
11:30 AM-10 PM

Complete Carry-Out Menu

463-3330

E. Nelson Street Lexington
(Behind McDonald's)

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 18, 1989

IMIKE SHADY]
Time for a
new tradition

What I’m about to say will shock you. Webster’s has
been lying to you.

The word ‘‘change”’ is not the word it appears to be. It
has too many letters. It should really only be a four-letter
word. At least that’s the way people have been treating this
noun/verb that always seems to indicate impending doom.

Let’s set the record straight:

Change does not mean W&L will be taken over by femi-
nists,

Change does not mean Coach Lord will ever stop sweating.

 

And change does not mean the end of tradition.

Ah, you say. So that’s what he wants to talk about --
tradition. Tradition is one of those words that the mere
mention of it somehow magically transports you back to the
.... Good Old Days.

W&L lacrosse has a tradition, and a good one at that. It
all began in the late 1960s and continued on through the
‘glory years’’ (another one of those phrases that makes you
catch your breath) of the 70s and early 80s with that diety of
lacrosse coaches, Jack Emmer.

Tradition is fine -- until it runs into change.

One change was not W&L’s fault. It seemed the little
game became a might to popular and then somebody thunk up
the great idea that you could make money off it and then
WHAMMO! Division I with scholarships and shoe contracts
and welcome to the big time W&L, sorry we didn’t ask y’all
if you really wanted to come before we invited you.

So the Division I tradition had to end. Change 1, Tradi-
tion 0

With the switch to Division II], a new winning tradition
was just beginning and this was so much nicer because we
were all competing under the same and wonderful ideal of
student-athlete, with the heavy emphasis placed on student.
But this tradition, too, had to perish. Instead of playing by
the unwritten rules, schools were stretching and reaching for
the best lacrosse players available, with the D-III philosophy
and academics firmly entrenched in an afterthought.

Meanwhile, back on the farm, coeducation was draining the
male athletic pool by reducing male enrollment, increasing the
academic standards and thus, making recruiting for the W&L
men’s team similar to climbing Mt. Everest with an ice pick
or trying to make sense of the Spectator -- you could try but
you wouldn’t get very far. Change 2, Tradition 0

So what do we do now? Is it possible to be athletically
competitive even on the Division III level? Can we have a
somewhat ‘‘cosmic’’ mesh between athletics and academics?
Or for one to be successful, does the other have to suffer or
make a compromise?

You can see a lot of things happen in four years. I have
witnessed a tennis national championship, a near-playoff
football team, a semifinalist in lacrosse, a national qualifying
golf team, the birth and subsequent rise of women’s athletic
teams and the amazing excitement created by the arrival of
the “Temple of Doom.’’(with a dancing SID at your service,
ladies).

The question before us is one that can never be fully
answered, Can W&L athletics succeed and sustain success
with the present academic policy in place in the admissions
department? The pair of eyes which have taken in my last
four years here say ‘‘yes’’. Instead of wishing for days long
since past, I challenge the you, the students and the student-
athletes at this university, to start yet another tradition: One
in which W&L maintains its academic integrity while also its
athletic effectiveness. That’s a tradition that even change
can’t touch.

 

 

AY

Garden Statuary
Fine Linen and Lace
Gifts ~ Balloons
We Wire Anywhere

 

 

=< florist to The Homestead
103 N. Jefferson, Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

Catch all the sports action of
the Washington and Lee
Generals in Old Dominion

Athletic Conference action in

The Ring- tum Phi.

 

 
 

 

ENTERTAINMENT

The Ring-tum Phi, May 18, 1989

8

 

Lenfest Center scheduled — Jan ‘91

 

By Cecily Tynan
Staff Reporter

 

“In its planning, the Lenfest
Center has evolved from being a
teaching theater to a_ performing
arts center,’’ Department Head and
Professor of Fine Arts, Albert C.
Gordon said Friday during a
Washington and Lee University
alumni reunion program _ titled
“The Hot Topics on Campus.”’

The center, which is currently
under construction at a site located
diagonally across Nelson Street
from the university's Gaines Resi-
dence Hall, will house two
theaters in addition to several oth-
er facilities.

The main theater will seat 425
and is designed to accommodate
dramatic, musical and dance per-
formances.

‘““We wanted the theater to be
fairly intimate. We designed it to
be a performing arts facility, not a
convention center, ** said Gordon.

The floor of the stage will be
equipped with a trap door, lift and
an orchestra pit, he said.

The center will also house a
separate experimental black box
theater. Flexible lighting from an
overhead grid, removable seating
and an adjustable corridor will
give the theater the potential to be
configured in various ways for
different productions, said Gordon.

The main lobby will provide
space for receptions and displays
of the art collections. The top lev-
el of the center will have faculty
offices and catwalks above the
two theateis. Other facilities _in-
clude a scene shop, cosiume shop,
dressing rooms and a_ rehearsal

 

abel s + ae ba | er

ee ae ied Sa

ing ; . a
4 ’ as” -» Le +.

 

oe

BF rr) av) ales
: a 2

——

#

—T

 

 

W&L Weekly Calendar

 

 

 

 

room.Construction of the Lenfest
Center has been made possible
through a gift of $3 million by
1953 W&L graduate Gerry Lenfest
and his wife, Marquerite, of Hunt-

Phi reviewer :
Little Shop called ‘spectacular’

 

By Joei Dyes
Staff Reporter

Little Shop of Horrors is spec-
tacular!

From the moment the lights
dimmed at 8:00 p.m. on Saturday
night in the Henry Street Play-
house until the grand finale, the
all-student cast of W&L’s produc-
tion of Little Shop had its audi-
ence on the edge of their seats.

The story begins finding the
elderly Mr. Mushnik (played by
junior Todd Peppers) in distress as
he has to tell his employees, Sey-
mour (senior Mike Carroll) and
Audrey (senior Monica Burke),
that he must close his flower shop
due to lack of business. Yet, when
Seymour puts one of his plants
(the Audrey II, named for his fel-

 

 

low employee and secret crush) in
the window of the shop, Mush-
nik’s business increases rapidly.
Unfortunately, Seymour is soon
faced with the dilemma of how to
feed the plant, after realizing it
requires blood to survive when he
accidentally pricks his finger on a
thorn and the plant snaps greedily
at the wound.

The Audrey II (operated by
freshman Willie Henderson) grows
to fill the littlke shop when Sey-
mour opts for a creative alterna-
tive in dealing with Audrey’s vio-
lent boyfriend, Orvin Scrivello (pl-
ayed by sophomore Scott Bell).
After that, the cannibalistic mon-
ster-plant becomes a haunting real-
ity, and demands that Seymour
choose between his moral stand-
ards or fame and wealth. Seymour

It’s Spring Term...
All the reason you need.

 

12 Noon-Midnight Monday-Thursday

Saturday 12 p.m.-2 a.m.
Fridays Open Until 2 a.m.
Sunday Noon-Midnight

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695

TE oatetetetetetetetetetetetetetete’, 4 ,0.0,¢.0.0.6.0.0.0.6 6.0 0 6 0 0'0'0's'6's'9 4''0'070 6 0.0 0-0-0.0.0°0°0.0.9.6. 6.0.0.6 4 0.4.4 6.4.8.6. 8.6.6 8.8 0 4 5 oo +

 

ingdon Valley, Pa.

The building is expected to be
compieted in August 1990. The
public opening is scheduled for
January 1991,

chooses the latter which causes
many exciting twists and quirks in
the hilarious plot. Seymour tries to
ignore his conscience until the
man-eating plant attacks his belov-
ed co-worker Audrey, bringing
Seymour’s journey to fame to an
abrupt end.

The musical has a score filled
with upbeat “SOs and ’60s music.
Sophomore J.R. Smith did an out-
standing job as the musical direc-
tor for the production. Senior Mi-
chael Tuggle is the deep speaking
and singing voice of the torment-
ing plant. Throughout the play,
three doo-wop girls, seniors Court-
ney Harpold and Margaret Pimbl-
ett and freshman Koren Washing-
ton, act as the Greek chorus in the
show. They appear in nearly every
scene as commentators on the ac-

File Photo

“It [the opening] will be dur-
ing ODK weekend and will fea-
ture guest artists and Washington
and Lee musical and dramatic per-
formances, ’’said Gordon.

tion and add wonderful color and
great excitement to the musical.

First-year Law Student Amy
Dillard, junior Lee Fleming, junior
Nancy Hickam, and _ freshmen
Ryan Kull, Kristen Ramberg and
Andrew Keller all have supporting
roles in the production.

Albert C. Gordon, head of the
W&L fine arts department and
director of the show, said that the
musical is the most technically
complicated he has ever directed
at W&L. Senior Drew W. Platt
has spent the entire year working
on designs for the carnivorous Au-
drey II.

Those who plan to attend Little
Shop are in for a delight. The
hard work and dedication of those
who took part in the production
shines through in every scene.

 

 

 

Congratulations Class of ’89
Thanks for your business!

See you next fall returning students

J & Ble Supply

463-3432

 

 

 

23 West Washington St.

 

 

  

egierereteterststststetelsrererse 8 8ct0est:8,8.9°8,.6.9.9.9.9 15.9.5 6.6.6)

Patatatetatetetetetet

KAPPAS

Congratulations to our seniors -

and the best of luck to

everyone on their summer and future plans.

eceteteterececetececececere ee se 0.0 ee 01# 0.8 .816.8.60808
ie" s*s"2°0 0-0 0 e's e's" s"e's es

ene ne onan oie 9 ene:

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5

HARDWARE STORES ©

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

ion.-Sat. 8:30-6:00;
Sun. 1-5}

 

May 12 to May 19

FRIDAY, MAY 12
Alumni Reunion Weekend.
Ilham,

1 p.m.

PRESENTATION FOR ALUMNI: "The Hot Topics on Campus.” Room 327, Commerce
School.
MATH COLLOQUTUM: "Women and Mathematics,” Wayne M. Dymacek, WAL associate

professor of math. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Public invited.

2 p.m.
3:30 p.m.

Spm.
9 pm.

SATURDAY, MAY 1)
Alumai Weekend continues.
9 om.

10:30 am.
11:45 am.

Alumni Glee Club Concent. Lee
2pm. REUNION SEMINAR: :

. School.
REUNION PANEL DISCUSSION: “Prime Time: Mid Life in Perspective,” Room 327,

PLAY: “Liule Shop of Horrors." University Theatre. For reservations, call 463-8637.
ALUMNI REUNION DANCE: Featuring the Johony McClenoa Big Band. Suxtent Activities

Annual Meeting of Law School Association. Lee Chapel.
Annual Reunion Assembly and Remarks by WAL Presiden Johe D. Wilson. Lee Chapel.

: "Motivation for Giving and Voluntary Service,” Eugene J. Webb, Lane

Professor of Organizational Behavior, Stanford Graduate School of Business. Room 327,
Commerce School.

MONDAY, MAY _15

PLAY: “Little Shop of Horrors.* University Theatre. For reservations, call 463-8637.
PLAY: “Linle Shop of Horror." University Theatre. For veservaions, cali 463-8637.

MATH HONORS THESIS TALK: “Rado's Theorem and Applicaiions,” Joha Boller 89,

Room 6, Robinson Hall. Public invited.

BAST ASIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "Hiroshima: Visions and Revisions,” Richard H. Minear,

ity of Massachusetts. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

University
PLAY: "Liule Shop of Horrors." University Theatre. For reservations, call 463-8637.

COMPUTER SCIENCE SENIOR PROJECT REPORT: “The University Catalogue ia
Hypertest,” David Thompson 89. Room 221, Commerce School. Public invited.
COMPUTER SCIENCE SENIOR PROJECT REPORT: “Expert Systems for Physical Finess

and Physical Therapy,” Andrew Layton ‘89. Room 221, Commerce School. 1

1: pm.
7: p.m.
8pm.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Sophomore Career Testing Interpretation.
° Room 114, University Coner. : =
JAPANESE FILM: The Tokyo Trial, Pact I (two showings). Nonhen Auditorium, University

Library.
JAPANESE LIT. FILM: Chushingura, Room 327, Commerce School.
FRENCH FILM: A Bout de souffle (Jean-Luc Godard, 1960). Room 203, Reid Hall.
PLAY: “Liule Shop of Horrors." University Theaure, For reservations, call 463-8637.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 17
4:30 & 7:30 p.m. POLITICS FILMFEST: All Quiet on the Western Front. Room 203, Reid Hall.

1:0 p.m.

CONTACT LECTURE: “Inside Report: An Overview of the Bush Administration,” Robert

Novak, political commentator. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

8 pm.

LECTURE: “Islam and the Plight of Modern Humanity," Seyyed Hossein Nasr, George

Washington University. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

& pm.

Spm,
402. Public invised.
7pm.

1: p.m.
8 pm.

ERIDAY, MAY_12
Board of Trustees Meeting.
Medical Buhics Instioute..

8 pn.

PLAY: “Little Shop of Horrors." University Theatre. For reservations, call 463-8637.

CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Senior Fry. Room 401, Howe Hall. Refreshments a 4:30 ia Room
JAPANESE FILM: The Tokyo Trial, Part I (two showings). Northen Auditorium, University

Library.
FRENCH FILM: Deux ou wois choses que Je sais delle (Godard, 1966). Room 203, Reid Hall. -
PLAY: “Liule Shop of Horrors." University Theatre. For rescrvations, call 463-8637.

i

MEDICAL ETHICS LECTURE: "On Managing One's Own Death,” Charles Culver, M.U.,

Ph.D., Dartmouth Medical School. Classroom “E,* Lewis Hall. Public inviied. ‘

8 pm.

PLAY; “Liule Shop of Horrors.” University Theatre. For reservations, call 463-8637.

PESOS SHEESH ESEH ESTEE SHEE SEH SEES SEEESESESESE TEESE SEE

EXHIBITIONS
DUPONT GALLERY: “Inside Looking Out: Paintings by Kathleen Olson” (\hrough May 14). Gallery hours 4

are 9 am. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, Admission is free, —
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: "Tho Washington and Lee Seal: History and Original Anwork

3

e

(uwough May 15), : *
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: "George Washington: A Window on His Library” i
(through May). Hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.
z
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, LOWER LEVEL ONE LOBBY: “Mark Catesby's The Natural History of
Carolina, Florida, and the Bahama Islands, \73\ - 1743: A Facsimile Edition from W&L's Special ‘

Collections.

LEWIS HALL, CHARLES VAILL LAUGHLIN FACULTY LOUNGE; “Charles W. Goolsby; Selected §

Works 1986 ~ 1988"(through May 31).

POOH EHTST ESSE HHH ETH ETH OTH SHHES HH OP EEE SEH ESTEE EEE TEE EET ES

The Bookery

 

By Caly Smith
Staff Reporter

 

A new bookstore selling, buy-
ing and trading used hardback and
paperback books has opened its
doors at 107 W. Nelson St. in
Lexington.

““We feel that Lexington has
been very supportive. A lot of
other businesses in town have
sent us flowers, balloons and cards
to wish us success in our busi-
ness,’’ said Jeannette Baggs who
opened the store called ‘‘The
Bookery’’ with her husband Gary.
The store policy posted in the
store states The Bookery’s policy
on selling, trading and buying
books. Used paperbacks are sold
at half of the publisher’s price.
Hardback books are priced indi-
vidually and 50 percent of a sale
can be used as traded credits.

““We are encouraging people
to trade not sell, ’’ Mrs. Baggs
sid.

The Bookery trades paperbacks
at one-fourth the original price,
and hardbacks at half the
Bookery’s retail. ‘‘Anyone can
trade books two for one. If you
bring in two books, I’ll give you
one. We trade fiction for fiction,
l'amour for l'amour, romance for

VARNER & POLE

For your extra pieces of furniture

'

opens doors '

¥

t
romance, etc,’’ said Mrs. Baggs.
According to the policy, Tht
Bookery pays cash for resaleablé
paperbacks at one-eighth of thy
publishers price and hardbacks at
one-fourth of the Bookery’s retaz%
price. Personal libraries and co!-
lector’s items are negotiable ac:
cording to the store policy.

Mrs. Baggs said she and hey
husband have been collecting
books for 16 years. ‘

“Every state we've crossed,
we've bought books. When the
attic space became cramped I de
cided to turn a hobby into a voce,
tion,”’ she said, adding that the
shop has books in 40, categorie$
arranged in alphabetical order. =;

Mrs. Baggs said the store has.
some new books from overstock$
and advanced copies sent by book
clubs. ‘I don’t have what you call
the rare book but I’m working off
that,’ she said. The Baggs
moved to Lexington in January,
from Tuscan, Arizonia. Mrs.
Baggs said she grew up in the
Richmond/Petersburg area and al:
ways wanted to return to the
Shenandoah Valley. ‘

““We scouted out Lexington ~
year ago and found there was n
available space for a store. Whe
we came back at Christmas time
we leased this place,’’ she said.

Furniture Dealers

 
