Sexual harassment is a realit

'

‘

 

iy , TY LIRRAP

HV

ii 3 0 1989

 

 

  

Che Ring-tum Phi

\

VOLUME 88, NO. 14

Soviets enjoy
the U.S.

    
 

See page 4

  

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Seniors: A chance to speak out

on coeducation

See page 6

 

   

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

  

Wrestlers at top
of performance

 
  

See page 5

  

JANUARY 26, 1989

 

By Marie Dunne
Staff Reporter

 

 

. Imagine how devastated I was
the day he [a professor] asked me to
sleep with him."’ -- a Washington and

, Lee female student

That remark is an excerpt from a
letter to the editor in this issue of The
Ring-tum Phi, and it indicates that
sexual harassment of students by fa-
culty is occurring on the W&L cam-
pus.
The Confidential Review Com-
mittee has created a policy to handle
cases of students harassing other
students.

But faculty to student harassment
falls under the jurisdiction of the
W&L administration, and the ad-

, ministration also has created a policy

‘

‘4

to hear complaints.
“*We have received indications that
there is the possibility of [faculty to

student sexual harassment] being a
problem on this campus,’’ said Anece
McCloud, Associate Dean of Students
for Minority and International Af-
fairs.

McCloud, the administrator who
handles complaints and conducts in-
vestigations of cases of faculty to stu-
dent harassment, declined to give
specific information on the number or
nature of any cases of faculty to stu-
dent harassment at W&L.

‘Confidentiality is the key word in
all of this. We will always take into
account the fact that this is a very
small campus and if details are given,
even without names being included,
people might be able to trace who is
involved,’’ said McCloud.

National statistics show that as
much as 20 to 30 percent of female
students will experience sexual
harassment from faculty, according to
the Project on the Status and Edu-

cation of Women at the Association of
American Colleges as reported in
“‘The Classroom Climate for
Women,”’ by Bernice R. Sandler, The
American Woman 1987-88.

‘*We are on a par with other college
campuses, especially of the same
type,’’ said McCloud, who said she is
ranking W&L according to articles
she has read on sexual harassment.
However, she pointed out that preva-
lence of sexual harassment of students
by faculty is difficult to determine.

“It’s a very difficult thing to
evaluate because there have been so
many victims--not just women, but
homosexual men--who have experi-
enced it, and for various reasons have
not talked to anyone about it. So we’re
just sort of guessing right now,’’ said
McCloud.

While sexual harassment may ap-
pear to be a female phenomena, Mc-
Cloud stresses that it affects men as

well as women.

‘‘This is not just a female problem.
It can involve two men, or it can in-
volve two women, or a female faculty
member and a male student. We must
not think of it as being one-sided,”

Adolfo Calero

talks on

By Christopher Giblin
Staff Reporter

 

 

Photo by: Paula Gregg/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Nicaraguan resistance leader Adolfo Calero spoke in Lee Chapel on

freedom and democracy.

 

 

= ees

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

Wilson addresses

 

During his Founder’s Day and ODK
address, President Wilson addressed
the university's current weaknesses
and asked students to live up to their
claim to honor, decency and integrity

, by fixing them.

Wilson cited such weaknesses as the
“exercise of branding initiates to the

, Sigma Society, the breaking windows

in Graham-Lees dormitory, the

‘ alcohol games that are conducted in
, certain fraternity houses and the per

sistent core of shallow male
chauvinism.

**T thought we were out of that kind

of behavior and mindless exercise.”’

' he said

  

  

 

 

Si

He asked the audience in Lee
Chapel what would be striking or sur
prising to the Ring-tum Phi in the year
2014, should it look back 25 years;
just as the Roanoke Times & World
News recently featured a retrospective

on the year 1963 and the process of

de-segregation.

He asked if fraternities in 2014
would wonder about the alcohol
games, and if students then might be
dismayed to see chauvinism that was
translated from ‘‘tasteless t-shirt
slogans to a vulgar and more serious
sexual aggressiveness, **

Instead of saying things like this go
on all over, students at W&L should
realize they are not everywhere else."

Please See Wilson Page 4

Adolfo Calero, a leader in the
Nicaraguan resistance against the
Sandinistas, spoke last Wednesday
night to about 400 people in Lee
Chapel

Calero’s talk was the fifth in @eenee™

of lectures presented by Contact, a
student-financed organization that br-
ings public figures to the W&L cam-
pus.

“‘A true fighter for freedom and
democracy,’’ said Contact Co-
Chairman John Roach as he introduc-
ed the man who was forced out of his
country in 1982,

Calero began his talk by saying that
since 1978, the year the Sandinistas
began fighting for the communist
cause, over 600,000 Nicaraguans
have been forced out of Nicaragua.

‘That is 16 to 17 percent of the en-
tire population of our country,’’ he
said.

Praising the conservative
philosophy in the United States,
Calero said that ina New York Times
poll, 71 percent of the people polled
agreed with former President
Reagan’s foreign policy over the past
eight years. ‘‘His only failure has
been Nicaragua,’’ said Calero.
“‘Congress has not allowed for the
contras, Nicaragua’s freedom
fighters, to give a full fight.

“‘The United States’ foreign policy
has followed a zig-zag course being
somewhat inconsistent,’ said Calero

freedom

referring to the aid given to his coun-
try during the past eight years.

Calero questioned the productivity
of the humanitarian aid being given to
the Contras saying, ‘‘while the San-
dinistas are receiving all out aid from
Soviet Russia, Cuba and Libya, the
contras are not receiving any aid for

““weapons.”* ~~ =

He said that when military aid was
given to the contras, ‘“The Sandinistas
wanted to go to the negotiating table. ”’
He added that 15,000 contra fighters
were holding off more than 100,000
Sandinistas, ‘‘until Feb. 3, 1988,
when aid was cut off again.’’ He said
Congress approved in April 1988,
humanitarian aid that will last until
March 31, 1989.

**That will not hold up to the 30 to
40 million dollars in military aid that
is given to the Sandinistas,”’ he said.

‘*You are in a world where democ-
racy is under attack,’’ said Calero
warning the audience to ‘‘watch out
for their country. Athens fell to inter-
nal struggles, not to Sparta,”’

Calero asked for the cooperation of
Congress saying that although
Nicaragua and the United States were
formed from different roots, the two
countries are very similar now.

‘Religion, family, freedom, and
private property are our national
values,’’ said Calero referring both to
Nicaragua and the United States.

**We Nicaraguans are ready to con-
tinue the struggle,’ said Calero. ‘‘We
are ready to negotiate with the

(JPlease See Adolfo Page 4

Executive Committee

What’s happening on campus?

By Genienne Mongno
Staff Reporter

 

Prof. Robert de Maria spoke to the
Executive Committee Monday night
about the feasibility of making an
honor system video to be shown to
Washington and Lee freshman and
first year law students during orienta-
tion.

The video, which would be about
ten minutes in length, would be used
to explain the Honor System and EC
procedures to new students, according
to EC President Christopher
deMovellan. He said the video would
make it easier to explain the specifics
of an honor trial to freshmen.

de Maria said the video would take
about eight weeks to produce. He
Suggested the EC examine honor
videos used at Roanoke College and
the University of Virginia for exam-
ples of plot and format.

Once the EC had a working script
and students willing to act in the video
and serve as crew members, it would
need to locate a cinematographer to
create the video at a reasonable price,
said de Maria.

Both de Maria and the EC agreed
that the idea was worth looking into
further.

In other business, deMovellan said
he spoke with Dean of Students Lewis

John last week about an athletic credit
change. He said several credit alter-
natives were discussed, and he would
meet with Dean of the College John
Elrod on Wednesday to get the issue
straightened out.

This weekend deMovellan will meet
with the board of trustees in Florida.

EC Secretary Eddie Yu made a
report on the general procedures for
the Student Financial Relations Com-
mittee. The EC made several sugges-
tions concerning the procedures to the
chairman of the committee, James
Rambeau.

Rambeau said he would present a
revised version of the Student Finan-
cial Relations Committee procedures
to the EC as soon as possible.

EC member Mark Cobb reported
that the administration is in the pro
cess of purchasing several new
bulletin boards to be placed in various
high-traffic areas around campus.

The EC voted unanimously to give
the Ski Club $91.35 so its members
will be able to compete in the next two
races.

The Ariel, Independent Union, Live
Drive, Ring-tum Phi and Student Bar
Association are scheduled to present
budget reports to the EC on Jan.30

The meeting lasted about an hour
and a half

 

she said.

According to McCloud, complaints
of faculty to student harassment have
been reported within the last two
years.

However, these reports do not mean

y at Wé&L

  

harassment did not occur prior to the
last two years, said McCloud, but
“the female students on campus--
some of them have reeched their four-

|_|Please See Harass Page 3

 

 

 

 

Sorority, sorority...

WA New mera

Rush, rush

W&L students are seen here going through sorority rush - rush

 

 

a ire
Photo by: Paula Gregge/The Ring-tum Phi

, rush

events are being held throughout this week.

 

Bowling balls!

 

By Ted Fox
Staff Reporter

 

Lexington’s new bowling alley,
The Fast Lane, will be expanding
their facilities this spring

Tom Stagner, manager of The Fast
Lane, said construction should begin
in April on at least eight to 12 new
lanes at the alley, which is located on
U.S. 11, one mile north of Lexington

The Fast Lane currently has 16
bowling lanes with electronic scoring,
a snack bar and a game room. Expan
sion plans are also call for the addition
of a new bar area to the facility

‘We're planning on adding a bar
which will be of first rate style and
quality and which will complement

the rest of our new facility, ’* Stagner
said
Stagner attributes the bowling

alley’s success to the fact that bowlers
in Lexington no longer have to travel

to Staunton to bowl. Reduced rates in
the afternoons have also drawn
students out to bowl in order to avoid
the weekly league night bowling. ‘‘I
prefer to bowl in the afternoon
because there is usually a lane avail-
able and the rates are reduced, *’ said
W&L junior Rob Mould, a frequent
bowler at The Fast Lane. ‘That way
you can avoid the crowded league
bowling in the evenings, *’ he con
tinued

he Fast Lane is open from noon to
midnight, Monday through Thursday
Friday hours are from noon until 2
a.m. and moonlight bowling is from
midnight until 2 a.m. According to
Stagner, the lights are turned off at
midnight and music is played over the
sound system while bowlers try to win
free games during the special two
hour period

Weekend hours are from noon until
| a.m. on Saturday and from noon un
til midnight on Sunday

  
OPINION
aking a
Statement

This week the Ring-tum Phi chose to run a letter anonymously, a
policy The Phi usually avoids. However, an important opportunity
arose and the Phi chose to break its own code in order to make a
statement.

 

 

The Phi does not encourage anonymous letters for several
reasons. First, anonymous letters are often highly critical and in-
flamatory and sometimes filled with harsh accusations that these
might not normally be written were it not for the mask of anonym-
ity. If a writer wishes to be critical the writer must bear the conse-
quences of his or her actions.

Second, The Phi is a medium of communication for the communi-
ty of Washington and Lee. An anonymous letter would not provide
an avenue for a member of the W&L community to respond.

This letter was submitted to The Phi in late September, 1988. At
the time The Phi chose not to run the letter because of its anonym-
ity. After much consideration and more than enough encourage-
ment from members of the administration not to print the letter, The
Phi felt that the issue it presented could not be ignored.

Sexual harrassment on a college campus is a serious problem.
The Phi felt that Washington and Lee is not immune. We received
some negative support from members of the administration who
didn’t want the ‘‘calm W&L seas’’ to be rocked. Since September,
The Phi has realized that simply ignoring a problem won’t make it
go away, even in quaint Lexington.

The letter is an important part of the story of sexual harassment
at Washington and Lee.
--EJP
--NKW

The Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1989

CONVENTIONAL
wistOM

 

 

All editorials appearing on the Editorial

page which are not letters or My Views are
written by the editors of the Ring-tum Phi.
They do not necessarily reflect
the opinions of the paper as a whole.

Letters are welcomed and must be signed.

   

 

 

 

   

ON VENTIOWA
W 15 Do A

 

 

 

Politics’ less glamorous side revealed

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

It was Friday, Jan. 20 at 11:55 a.m.
five minutes away from the Inaugural
Address. I was about to write the
greatest political commentary of my
life. I was ready.

My trusty journalist’s tool kit, com-
plete with pencils, paper and model
airplane glue was already open. Quiv-
ering with anticipation, I turned on the
television expecting to hear the
national anthem. Instead I heard this:

“I’m here to tell you about a man
named Jed;poor mountaineer never
kept his family fed, but then one day
he was shooting at some food and up

from the ground came a_ bubblin’
crude—oil that is—black gold, etc.
a

It was the Beverly Hillbillies.
Before I had time to change the
channel I was too far into the plot.

Since I missed Bush’s inauguration
speech I decided to cover the less
glamourous side of presidential
politics—the relocation of an old
president.

Yes reader, while George ‘‘Sex,
drugs and rock n’ roll’? Bush was re-
ceiving medals and eating chocolate
mousse, our old friend Ronald Reagan
was getting ready for the big trip back
to California. As the reader has prob-
ably guessed, I happened to be at the
White House for the sentimental
departure of a man who has just lost
his job.

Here’s how the scene unfolded.

Ron, wearing nothing but baggy
underwear, was trying to fit his lawn
mower into the U-Haul truck and
cussing at Nancy under his breath for
having so many ‘‘damn dresses.”’

Nancy, who was wearing polyester
shorts and a bandanna over her head,
was arguing with the White House
landlord about getting their house de-
posit back.

Nancy: Listen landlord, you’re go-
ing to give me my deposit back.

Landlord: Sorry Mrs. Reagan, but
I’m gonna need it to cover the cost of
that hole in the Oval Office.

Nancy: But that hole was there
when we moved in, Carter must have
done it.

As the Reagans got everything
straightened out they jumped in the U-
Haul and headed for California. Wat-
ching them head West into the sunset.

the Reagans make me think of the
Beverly Hillbillies.

The two families have so much in ~

common. I was so inspired by the
scene that I decided to write a poem

about the transition in and out of the '

White House sung to the tune of the ,

Beverly Hillbillies.

“T'm here to tell you ‘bout a man ‘

named ‘The Gipper’; before politics
he worked nights as a stripper. Then

one day he was sleepn’ in the nude °

and out of the closet popped a real hip
dude Bush that is Vice President a
Republican.

Next thing you know Ron and

George are drinking beer and then
George said, ‘Ron move away from
here. California’s the place you ought

to be,’ so Ron loaded up the U-Haul '
and moved to Beverly Hills that is .

presidential pensions retirement. "’

 

 

 

 

My glfrrenel ane i Never talk Anymecre J
We get pets contracts /

 

1 ll a ee |
Be | ; "L

ZB [ oe
Z) | Perea

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

NEWS STAFF
THEMES .cccccssccrssccccccccccccvessccsccoseccqsectoncccoscoosescconsssessooooees Elizabeth Parkins
Heidi Read
Nancy Whalen
sescesoconcccncnsssecccecsacebeccssoccccoonsceseeessossooasooeooesees Eleanor Nelson
soscccesssesseocescesecssssocsssspecocssscesscesocoessssosssssosoossooeeesessed Mike Shady
shvanoessins Michael Tuggle
Brooke Jarabek
Phote RAMOGS ..ccsscccrersssvessvececencovoccssccssoosesoscocescccssenecesseseooessesees Cheryl! Barrett
JuLee Messerich
Copy Editor ........sssssccesreessscesseeseeserssescssesssssssesssssssssssessssereaeeserens Kelly Putney
OPINION PAGE STAFF
sussdssuosoncesesevecssepeeevacssevedeseedecssuanssesesensgeontets Pamela Kelley
.Stephen Ingram
gevaliiins: Jeff Woodland
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager .......ssscsseessssesceesessseccssseeeccssceeesssssnneesereeeees Christie Champlin
Assistant Business Manager ..........-sssssccssesssreeeseseseeeeesssesssseneeseenneeeees Fred Turpin
Advertising Manager Anne Dysart
Circulation Manager .........ccsssesseeessseeeseessseenensnnnsnsessssecseenseaeeseerenes Karl Hanson

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year
at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to
The Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

Letters

Geimer’s view on Contact speakers opposed

To the Editors:

I am writing in response to Professor Geimer’s
snide letter questioning CONTACT’s choice of
speakers. Mr. Geimer is especially upset that
CONTACT hires ‘‘criminals to come in and give
lectures reinforcing the arrogantly comfortable
view of the world already held by most of the au-
dience.’’ Aldolfo Calero’s presence in Lee Chapel
last week prompts his letter.

Well Professor Geimer, with all due respect,
you’re wrong. Mr. Calero is not a criminal
(unless, of course, you take what the Sandinista
regime espouses as truth). And the views of the
audience, which are also my own, are many
things, but comfortable they are not.

I learned a great deal last week about the
Nicaraguan Resistance and its leadership. I learn-
ed that Aldolfo Calero is not the capitalist pig that
you and other Sandinista supporters attempt to
paint him as. I learned that he is not a stooge for
the Coca-Cola Company. Aldolfo Calero stands

Dear Editors:

‘Hiring criminals’? Was a writer to the Ring-
tum Philast week really fretting about CON-
TACT’s bringing ‘‘criminals’’ such as G. Gordon
Liddy and Adolfo Calero to W&L? How about

Dear Editor;

This is in response to Professor William S.
Geimer’s letter of January 19, 1989 addressing
CONTACT’s recent sponsorship of Adolfo
Calero. Mr. Geimer questions ‘‘the wisdom of
that choice.’’ Referring to Calero as a
‘‘criminal,’’ he sees little value in a lecture
‘‘reinforcing the arrogantly comfortable view of
the world already held by most of that audience.”’
He asserts that it would been ‘‘better for truth, for
education, and for justice if CONTACT had asked
him to speak without charge, but with the
understanding that the fat fee that will unfor-
tunately be paid Calero be diverted instead to help
the civilian victims of his ‘freedom fighters.’’’

I respectfully disagree. It is entirely proper and
wise that Aldopho Calero speak at Washington
and Lee. The root of Nicaruaga’s woes is not the
Contras, but the sandinistas. The strategic loca-
tion of Nicaruaga has made the country a par-

To The Editors:

I am writing in response to Professor Geimer’s
critique of the Contact Committee, which ap-
peared in the Ring-Tum-Phi this past week. As
Vice-Chairman of Contact, I feel compelled to

for the same thing that Cardinal Obando y Bravo,
Eden Pastora, and Ronald Reagan stand for:
freedom, Linfer from your letter that you are will-
ing to believe the lie that Daniel Ortega and
Miguel d’Escoto and Fidel Castro constantly tell.
It is the biggest lie of the 20th century: the doc-
trine of Marxism.

Aldolfo Calero is a modern day Ben Franklin.
He is in the United States, as Franklin was in
France, to ask for help in the fight against
tyranny. We should never forget that the french
helped us in our revolution. We should help the
Nicaraguans in theirs.

And Mr. Geimer, do you really think that the
view I just stated is ‘‘comfortable’*? Don’t you
realize how easy it would be to swallow the token
line? Major newspapers like the Washington Post
and other lounge-chair liberals gleefully chant,
‘‘Give Peace A Chance!’’. Ah, now THAT is
comfortable. But if these leftovers from the sixties
weren’t so glassy-eyed in their vision, they would
realize that peace without freedom isn’t peace at

Alger Hiss, Angela Davis, the brothers Berrigan,
and Sister McAllister? There's a noble band of
jailbirds/criminals/martyrs. No problem with
those worthies, though, because they’d never
reinforce ‘‘the arrogantly comfortable view of the

ticular source of concern in American foreign pol-
icy since the fall of the Somoza government in
1979. In its place, Daniel Ortega has erected an-
other dictatorship which has succeeded in making
life even more miserable for the population. He
has broken his promises of democratic reform,
oppressed the Roman catholic Church, muzzled
the media, expropriated private property,
betrayed the non-Communist members of the
original Sandinista coalition, and ruthlessly
silenced his domestic opponents. He has armed
his nation to the teeth with weapons more ap-
propriate for fighting a conventional conflict,
rather than a guerilla war (e.g., tanks and jet
fighters). It does not require a leap of imagination
to expect Ortega to use these weapons to follow
through on his calls for regional revolution once
the Contras have been eliminated. It follows that
the Sandinistas represent a major threat to the
stability of Central America.

provide both undergraduate and law school
students, a more factual and non- ideological
perspective of this worthwhile committee’s
endeavors.

all; it’s tyranny.

Mr. Geimer, you’re upset. You’re upset that
me and my generation, or rather, the ‘‘audience’’,
is not going to walk with you down the easy path.
We are not a bunch of useful idiots. We will not
follow your direction, and turn our backs to those
in need. We realize that tyranny, whether it come
from the left or the right, from Pinochet or
Castro, from Somoza or Ortega, is wrong and can
not be justified.

The Nicaraguan Resistance is fighting for
freedom and against tyranny. And freedom is
something you and I have taken into our lungs for
so long, that we can’t even imagine what life
would be without it. Dammit, Mr. Geimer, men
my age are dying down there; and they are dying
for freedom. I would think that you could do a
little better than to write a caustic letter proclaim-
ing Mr. Calero a criminal, and my views as
‘‘arrogantly comfortable.’

Ray Welder *91

world already held by most of the audience.’’ One
has to be so careful in picking and choosing one’s
favorite criminals.

J.D. Futch

Prof. of History

On the other hand, Mr. Calero represents the
only organized fighting force actively opposing
the Sandinistas. I do not believe former President
Reagan’s pronouncement of the Contras as the
moral equivalent of the Founding fathers. Nor do
I dispute that the Contras have acted on occasion
with shocking brutality. However, there is little to
indicate that such brutality is systematic, unlike
the damning evidence against Ortega’s regime.
The Contras are a better alternative to a Stalinist
police state bent on exporting revolution. Viewed
in a Bismarkian manner, it is in America’s interest
to support Calero’s organization. Thus, it is much

to our benefit that the W&L community was af-

forded the opportunity to hear Calero’s insights

even if they conflict with the views of Mr.
Geimer.

Paul A. Driscoll

"SSC, "SIL

On September 26, 1988, John Roach (Chair-
man) and I stated to the Executive Committee that

Please See Contact Page 3

New policy strikes blow to W&L athletics

To the Editors:

The Physical Education Department's decision
to give varsity athletes next year only one-fifth
credit for their participation rather than the cur-
rent two-fifths was not made with the best inter-
ests of the varsity athletes and the status of
athletics at W&L in mind.

Coach McHenry was quoted as saying that the
department is not ‘*...being fair to students...”’
with the current policy because the athletes are not
offered ‘‘...a wide variety of activities.”’
However, the department will see that this is an
incorrect observation if it will only look around
campus on any given day.

Every afternoon, both gyms are overcrowded
with basketball pick-up games; intramural com-
petition is extensive; the squash and racquetball

courts often offer no vacancies; on nice days one
can find football or frisbee games on the colon-
nade, overflowing tennis courts, groups playing
lacrosse, bike riders, and runners.

The department must realize that more often
than not varsity athletes participate in the above
activities. Most athletes do not become dormant in
the off-season, and the exercise they seek is often
not the same as their intercollegiate sport. They
do not need ‘‘wider variety’’ in the form of an ad-
ditional P.E. requirement.

Athletics at W&L have taken the brunt of recent
changes at this university, as can be seen by
coaches’ recruiting frustrations. It is only natural
that the department wishes to reassert its role in
the ‘‘W&L experience.’’ But decreasing athletes’
P.E. credit is not the way to combat the depart-

ment’s and contribution, not punished. Sports can
again be an important and successful aspect of
W&L if the incentive to participate in them is in-
creased. The new policy will not increase incen-
tive.

The problem that McHenry mentions with the
swimmer who took P.E. lifesaving has an easy
solution. Simply prohibit an athlete from taking
the P.E. course comparable to his or her inter-
collegiate sport. Do not force the athlete to take an
extra course.

I hope that the administration and Physical Edu-
cation Department will consider these arguments
before they strike another blow at intercollegiate
athletics’ struggle to become prominent again.

Johnny Sarber '89

~

 

 
NEWS

The definition of sexual harassment
in the current faculty handbook and
University catalog reads as follows:

“Unwelcome sexual advances, re-
quests for sexual favors, and other
verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature constitute sexual harassment
when:

1) submission to such conduct is
made either explicitly or implicitly a
term of condition of an individual’s
educational or employment advance-
ment;

2) submission to or rejection of such
conduct by an individual is used as the
basis for academic or. employment
decisions affecting that individual; or

3) Such conduct has the purpose of
substantially interfering with an in-
dividual’s academic or work perfor-
mance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive educational or
employment environment. *’

Informal Phase

1. Complaints should be brought
to the Associate Dean of Students
for Minority and International Af-
fairs (currently held by Anece
McCloud), who discuss the com-
plaint with the student and explore
possible solutions.

2. If the student decides to file a
complaint, they will fill out a
written form describing the event.
If the student does not wish to take
further action, the written report
will be held on file at the Associate
Dean’s office.

3. If the student does wish to
take further action, the Associate
Dean will interview the accused
faculty member may file a written
report or statement of the incident,

1972 - Title [IX of the 1972 Edu-
cation Amendments states as
follows:

**No person in the United States
shall, on the basis of sex, be ex-
cluded from participation in, or be
denied the benefits of, or be sub-
jected to discrimination under any
education program or activity re-

ceiving Federal financial
assistance.””
1981 - The Office for Civil

Rights of the U.S. Department of

While this broad definition would
seem to include all ineppropiate
behavior, researchers have found that
faculty may treat female students
differently than male students in very
subtle, seemingly trivial ways.

Roberta Hall and Bernice R.
Sandler identified over 30 ways in
which faculty treat females differently
and outlined those behaviors in their
paper, ‘‘The Classroom Climate: A
Chilly One for Women?’’

**Some of the behaviors observed in
the study are so small that they might
be considered trivial. They do not
happen in every class, nor do they
happen all the time, and as isolated in-
cidents, they may have little effect.
But when they occur repeatedly, their
cumulative effect can damage
women’s self-confidence inhibit their
learning and classroom participation,
and lower their academic and career
aspirations.’’

which will be held on file at the
Associate Dean’s office.

4. The Associate Dean will at-
tempt to find a resolution through
informal mediation between the
student and the faculty member. If
a resolution is agreed upon , no
further action will be taken and the
file of the case will be held in the
Associate Dean’s office.

Formal Phase

5. If no resolution is reached
through mediation, the Associate
Dean will make an in-depth in-
vestigation of the incident, which
may include interviewing
witnesses and examining physical
evidence. The Associate Dean will
prepare a written report of the fin-
dings and meet with the President

Education reaffirmed its jurisdic-
tion over sexual harassment com-
plaints under Title IX.

1984 - W&L Board of Trustees
vote that the school will become
coeducational.

1985 - First coeducational class
matriculates.

Fall 1987 - Statement on sexual
harassment is added to the faculty
handbook, defining sexual harass-
ment and asserting, under Title IX,

‘*sexual harassment is, thus, not...

The Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1989

 

What constitutes sexual harassment?

Some examples of this behavior:

© professors tend to make more eye
contact with men than women

® professors tend to be more atten-
tive, through gestures and body lan-
guage, while men are speaking than
while women are speaking

® professors interrupt women
students more often than men students

© female students are not called
upon as often as male students

© male students are ‘‘coached’’ to
explain their answers more than
female students

© professors respond to male com-
ments more extensively than female
comments.

These behaviors, combined with
remarks that disparage women or
make stereotypical comments or jokes
about women, are part of what is com-
ing to be called ‘‘gender-
harassment. ”’

How to file a faculty sexual harassment complaint

of the University to discuss the
complaint.

6. At the President’s discretion,
an ad-hoc committee will review
the case and conduct further in-
vestigation, if necessary. The
accused faculty member shall be
allowed to resent evidence and give
rebuttal testimony before this
committee.

7. The President, after hearing
the report of the ad-hoc committee,
may take whatever action he deems
appropriate. Any disciplinary ac-
tion will remain, to the extent
possible, confidential.

8. All reports and investigative
materials will remain confidential
and subject to disclosure upon au-
thorization of the President.

Source: Temp procedures...

Historical calender of sexual harassment policies at W and L

only inappropriate behavior in ed-
ucational institutions; it is against
the law.”’

Oct.1988 - Procedures for
claims of sexual harassment of
students by faculty are developed
by the Associate Dean of Students
for Minority and Foreign Student
Affairs.

Sources: Sexual Harassment
Statement, Faculty Handbook
Temporary Procedures for Claims
of Sexual Harassment...from

** Anece McCloud.

 

 

 

Harass

 

(continued from page 1)

th year and therefore feel a little more
confident in coming forward.”’

Anne C. Schroer-Lamont, Associ-
ate Dean of Students, agreed, noting
that junior and senior women students
tend to be more secure in their social
lives than freshmen and sophomore
students and are therefore more confi-
dent in reporting harassment--be it
student to student or faculty to stu-
dent.

“‘Freshmen and sophomores are
still scared. They are under the belief
that somehow their social lives will be
completely ruined if they file charges
or if they talk, so they endure quite a
bit of quiet agony, or share it only
with one another, or don’t do anything
until sometimes a year or two years
after a very serious event,’’ said
Schroer-Lamont.

In some cases, nothing can be done
about an event that occurred more
than a year ago. ‘‘It’s too late,’’ said
Schroer- Lamont. ‘‘Where it’s not too
late is if we’re hearing the same name
for the second time, third time, or
fourth time, whether that’s a faculty
person or a member of the student
body.”

 

Sexual harassment is not limited to
the undergraduate school, said
Schroer-Lamont, noting law-students
have been abused by both peers and
professors.

In addition to the grade level of the
individual student, McCloud said the
diversity of students--‘‘some are go-
ing to be more willing to make a
report than others’’--and the increase
in the number of women at W&L may
have influence on the decision to
report a complaint.

Victims have also expressed con-
cern that harassment does not happen
to other students in their decision to
report harassment, said McCloud.

‘*The victims who have talked with
me, whether it’s been faculty to stu-
dent or whether it’s been student to
student, most of them have expressed
concerns about ‘This has happened to
me. I don’t want this to happen to so-
meone else,’’’ she said.

Faculty to student sexual harass-
ment is different than other types of
harassment in that a faculty member is
in a position of power over the stu-
dent, said McCloud.

Student to student harassment may
be as serious or tend to be more
*‘violent,’’ said McCloud, but ‘‘from
a layman's perspective’’ student sex-
ual harassment by faculty appears to
be a more ‘‘traumatic emotional expe-
rience.”’

**T think one of the reasons we can’t
get a grasp on how prevalent it is there
are sO many more fears involved,’’
said McCloud.

**Some see this as one of the worst
examples of sexual harassment
because the student is in a position
where they are looking up to that fa-
culty member as a leader, as a role
model, as someone who is there for
the purpose of helping them make ed-
ucational decisions in the classroom,
but also helping them make vital deci
sions in their everyday lives,’’ she
said.

‘*Part of the healing process can
sometimes consist of being removed
from the status of victim to the status
of being in control of their own
lives,’’ said McCloud.

The procedures for filing a com-
plaint are designed to help a student
take control of their situation, whether
or not they decide to make a formal
complaint.

And while these procedures only
recently were developed, W&L does
seem to be lagging in handling the
issue of sexual harassment.

According to Schroer-Lamont,

‘‘Other schools that went co-ed 15 or
20 years ago didn’t really begin deal-
ing with these issues until they had
been co-ed for 12 or 15 years. Some
are really just now dealing with it.”’

 

CONTACT

(continued from page 2)

 

our primary goal
for Contact ’88-’89 was to attract diverse and qualified
speakers, produce panel discussions and debates, assist
with symposia, and for the first time attempt to coor-
dinate efforts with other groups on campus, including the
law school. This latter concept has all ready proven itself
valuable in bringing to both campuses Mr. Russell Kirk,
which was an effort of the Contact Committee, the
Tucker Law Forum, and the Federalist Society.

In addition, we also stated to the Executive Committee
that it was a primary goal of Contact to greatly improve
the variety and quality of services provided to the student
body, while attempting to curb the reliance upon speak-
ing agents or agencies and thus reduce the cost of bring-
ing speakers to campus. Further, it has also been this
committees’ belief that it is functionally possible to bring
very qualified and distinguished speakers to campus by
relying upon and utilizing student, faculty, and alumni
‘‘contacts’’ in order to attract individuals for little or no
honoraria.

This concept was tested and proven this past fall, when
the Contact Committee sponsored engagements with
Senator Robb, a debate between the Chairmen of the
Virginia Republican and Democratic Parties, assisted the
debate between Rep. Olin and challenger Judd, while
also sponsoring a discussion by Mr. Rideout, of the
ABA. Only one of the Fall Contact speakers was paid
honoraria, and that was for Mr. Kirk, which was divided
by three groups.

This committee, also recognizes the reality that in
some circumstances we will need to utilize honoraria to
attract the best speakers, due to the fact that many in our
society follow the motto ‘‘there is no such thing as a free
lunch.’’ Regardless, Contact will endeavor to first utilize
W&L contacts in searching for speakers, and attempt to
bring them to campus at the least expense.

Contact has an open door policy to any student,
member of the faculty or administration who has a sug-
gestion regarding an issue or speaker that they believe
would provide valuable discourse and public debate in
this community. Professor Geimer, received a similar
invitation from Contact this past semester, in a open
letter that we sent to all members of the faculty and ad-
ministration, encouraging their participation and in-
volvement. It is unfortunate that Professor Geimer has
not accepted that invitation, rather choosing dema-
goguery on the editorial page.

Professor Geimer in his editorial suggests that the Con-
tact Committee should first determine the likely consen-
sus of the probable audience, and then turn 180 degrees
in the opposite direction to identify a speaker. I respect-
fully disagree, for this is exactly how past committees
selected such speakers as Dr. Timothy Leary.

In regard to the honoraria paid to Mr. Calero, it was
modest in comparison to the honoraria paid in the past for
less qualified and less capable speakers. Professor
Geimer also implied that the honoraria paid to Mr.
Calero will be used by the ‘freedom fighters’’ to harm
Nicaraguan civilians, and thus Contact should have di-
verted these monies to assist civilian victims of the
“freedom fighters.’’ First, Contact is not authorized to
spend its budget in that manner, and further I believe that
it is more reasonable to believe that Mr. Calero will
probably use these monies in order regain popular sup-
port in this country for the Contra Movement.

Professor Geimer also questions the wisdom of selec-
ting Mr. Calero as a Contact lecturer, due primarily to
his very strong opposition to the Contra Movement, of
which Mr. Calero is a leader. Professor Geimer also
suggested that Contact would have better served ‘‘truth,
education and justice,’’ if we had chosen a person to
speak, who was more closely aligned politically with
himself, which is a matter of personal opinion.

The selection of Mr. Calero, was a decision that was

carefully thought through, based upon the belief that Mr.
Calero would offer the student body and the W&L com-
munity, an opportunity to acquire first hand, the perspec-
tive of one credible insider representing one side of the
Contra issue. I reject Professor Geimer’s view that the W
& L community to which Contact serves, has an
‘arrogantly comfortable view of the world.’’ On the con-
trary, it is because this community does not have such an
ideologically blindfolded view of the world that it is will-
ing to take the opportunity to reaffirm or denounce their
support or opposition for the Contra movement, through
such public lectures.

Discussion over the proper and efficient operation of
Contact is welcomed and encouraged, however, analysis
or criticism of the committee’s functioning should be
devoid of partisan political rhetoric, and concentrate on
the facts. Finally, I only wish that Professor Geimer, a
person very well-educated on the issue of Nicaragua and
its civil war, would have requested the opportunity to
respond to Mr. Calero’s address. Or in the alternative,
exercised his right to have used the question period at the
end of the Calero discussion, to submit into the market
place of ideas his perspective of this very important
issue.

John M. Falk ’86C *90L
Vice-Chairman, Contact Committee

 

 

 

 

Interviews by Sandi Dudley

 

 

Robert Haley ’89, Lexington, VA

Either way you can’t go wrong. Ill
either get an excellent meal, or an ex-
cellent meal.

cluded.

 

Rowan Taylor, ’89, Portland, OR
— Matters on whether or not I wanted
to sleep with her and if breakfast is in-

the date.

Stacey Patmore, °91, Fishkill, NY
— That’s ridiculous! I would pay for

 

 

 

 

at him.

Beth Stutzmann, ’90, Port Wash-
ington, NY — I would probably laugh

 

Lee Lewis, ’91, Little Rock, AR
— I think you would be hard pressed
to find any girls around here to do
that.

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1989

 

New Soviet policies put to test

 

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

 

When the deans first informed Nona
Mchedlishvili and her classmates in
the Soviet Union that it was possible
to study in America, she said, ‘‘It was
kind of a joke.”’

‘*Everyone was laughing. We took
the test as a way to tease the teacher,”’
she said.

But when she and 55 other Russian
students arrived in the beginning of
August at Middlebury College in
Vermont, she no longer thought it was
a joke.

Her arrival at Washington and Lee
along with Vasily Kharik and
Vladimir Kulyukin is the direct result
of the Soviet Union’s new policies ot
Glasnost and Perestroika. This is the
first year that Soviet students are
allowed to study in America and
American students are permitted to
study in the Soviet Union.

These three students are promoting
better understanding between the two
cultures through their visit here.

None of the three expressed any
animosity toward the United States
before arriving. Nor do they have
much criticism of the U.S. now that
they are here.

‘‘America is supposed to be so
good, so fine. We knew about crime
{the abundance of it] but America is
the best life. That was the stereotype I
had before and what I see now,”’ said
Mchedlishvili.

Neither Kulyukin nor Kharik felt
America was that different from, or
better than, the Soviet Union.
Kulyukin explained, ‘‘The concept of
Soviet culture is a blend of so many
different cultures that are so mixed up

you can hardly differentiate between
them. American culture is more or
less the same because it’s a melting
pot.”’

Thus, culture shock did not bother
Kulyukin or Kharik. Both have lived
apart from their families to study.
Kulyukin studies foreign languages at
the Moscow Institute of Foi zign Lan-
guages and Kharik is a mathematical
physics major at Moscow State Uni-
versity.

Mchedlishvili, who is a journalism
student at a university in Georgia,
U.S.S.R., experienced some culture
shock. She had always lived with her

 

family until she came to America. She

said, ‘‘There is too much _in-
dividualism. It’s hard to be so in-
dependent.’’

But she said she likes campus life
because it has given her the chance to
be free to examine herself and
others—to test her limits.

The students had to pass tests ad-
ministered at their schools, have good
grades and be under 23 years of age to
qualify to study in America.

Kulyukin has learned English,
Norwegian, Danish and Swedish. He
came to America because he said, ‘‘it
was a golden opportunity to practice
my English.”’

He is learning Japanese at W&L as
well as taking classes in Greek and
Latin, linguistics, the study of the
English language and creative writing.

He would like to visit Great Britain,
another Anglo-Saxon country, to
compare it with America.

Regarding Perestroika in his coun-
try, he said, ‘‘The whole political
climate in the country has changed.
People are not afraid of speaking their

‘minds.”’

Kharik, who was born in Bukovina
located in southwest Ukraine, learned
four languages as a youth, none of
which was English. His only experi-
ence with English prior to his arrival
in America was through written trans-
lations of scientific material.

His courses at W&L include Soviet
politics, pure mathematics (functional
analysis), optics, asymptotics methods
in mathematics and tensor analysis.
He has submitted articles to the Jour-
nal of Math Physics at Duke Univer-
sity.

Although he misses the Lenin
Mountains and the parks where
Moscow State University is located,
he said, ‘‘I enjoy staying here at W&L
because I was born in a place that
looks like this with mountains, so I am
at home.”’

If his future plans to return to
America and teach at W&L or at an-
other university work out, Lexington
may indeed be his new home.

Adolfo

 

(continued from page 1)

Soviets.”

Calero ended the evening with a
quote to the Lee Chapel audience:
‘*Too many people are ready to accept
for Nicaragua what they are not will-
ing to accept for themselves.”’

Calero, born in 1931 and educated
in the United States, received his
undergraduate degree in business ad-
ministration from the University of
Notre Dame and did graduate work in
industrial administration at Syracuse
University.

 

Photo by: Chery! Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

Glasnost — Vasily Kharik, Nona Mchedlishvili, and Vladimir Kulyukin of the Soviet Union.

Mchedlishvili plans to be a jour-
nalist. She assumed the authorities at
Middlebury assigned her to W&L
because of its journalism department.

She took only two years of English
about four years ago; thus, language
provided a large barrier for her.

The peopie of her native republic
are very important to her. She said,
“*A friend in Georgia is a friend for
life.”’

The presence of these three students
at W&L is helping to dispel myths and
prejudices formed from the lack of
communication between America and
the Soviet Union. Hopefully, students
will take this opportunity to learn
about their Soviet peers.

Calero returned to Nicaragua in
1958 when he took a job as general
manager of Coca-Cola. He also
became heavily involved in politics at
the time.

In 1983, he was nominated for
membership in the National Direc-
torate of the Nicaraguan Democratic
force, where he served as president
and commander in chief. In 1985, he
joined the Directorate of the United
Nicaraguan Opposition, a position he
held until 1987, when he resigned to
serve on the Directorate of the
Assembly of the Nicaraguan
Resistance. There he represents the
conservative political current.

Plans for hotel/conference center underway

DDA hopes to promote tourism and economic growth in Lexington

 

By Carrie Davis
Staff Reporter

Plans for the conversion of the Old
Main St. Mall to a hotel-conference
center continue but are not definite,
according to Dianne Herrick, ex-
ecutive director of the Lexington
Downtown Development Association.

The plan calls for the city to work
with the developer, Douglas J.
Nodine, of Greensboro, N.C., by ob-
taining a $1.5 million federal urban
development grant to provide partial
financing. Local investors are also be-
ing sought.

“It is well known that Lexington
needs more hotel space,’’ Herrick
said. ‘‘But a hotel can not survive on
the eight or 10 big college weekends a
year.”

Herrick said Lexington would make
an attractive small conference center

because of its proximity to Washing-
ton, D.C. and other large cities
throughout the Southeast. She added
that the quaint downtown area makes
Lexington an attractive place to bring
spouses and children.

“We feel that Lexington is a des-
tination for tourists and we would like
to have the kind of facilities for con-
ferences, especially with the two uni-
versities here,’’ Herrick told The
Richmond Times-Dispatch in a May
10, 1988, article.

‘*The two schools in Lexington
have a lot of alumni support. We feel
that many of them would like to come
back here for conferences and bring
their families,’’ she said. The hotel-
conference center would provide
facilities for small-to mid-sized con-
ferences for firms seeking a moderate-
ly priced, quality hotel.

The proposed hotel includes 100 to

Country “) Fare

COUNTRY CRAFTS & ANTIQUES

KAREN A. NOELI
703/463-2088

4 E. WASHINGTON ST.
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

 

150 rooms and banquet facilities for
about 300 people. Parking facilities
will be constucted.

Herrick hopes the new conference
center will promote tourism and
economic growth in downtown Lex-
ington.

Herrick said the completion of
Interstate 64 through West Virginia,
which has eased travel to Virginia

from the Midwest, will also encourage
Midwestern firms to look to Lex-
ington.

Currently, Lexington has no means
for holding business conferences. Ac-
cording to Herrick, the larger hotels
do not provide the elegance needed to
attract firms. There is also a lack of
space for dining.

 

General Notes

Hope and Glory

The W&L Film Society will
show Hope and Glory(England,
1987) Friday and Saturday, Jan. 27
and 28, at 8 p.m. in Classroom A
of Lewis Hall. Admission is free.

Directed by John Boorman, the
film is one of most popular foreign
films in the U.S. in recent years.
He also directed Deliverance, The
Emerald Forest and Excalibur. In
Hope and Glory, he pays homage
to his childhood in England during
World War II. Through the eyes of
children, the Blitz of London
becomes an occasion for adventure
and comedy.

An Academy Award nominee
for Best Picture, the film stars lan
Bannen and Sarah Miles.

Brothers

The German department is spon-
soring The Brothers Karamazov
(USSR, 1968, dir./screenwriter
Ivan Pyriev, from the novel by
Fyodor Dostoyevskiy, in Russian
with English subtitles) at 7:30 p.m
on Friday and Saturday Jan. 27-28
in Room 203, Reid Hall.

The Grand Inquisitor segment on
a separate reel will be shown
thereafter upon request. Especially
timely on this 100Ist year of Rus-
sian Christianity. The most
eloguest cinematic portrait of pure
nihilism.

 

There’s more
for your life

Sears, Roebuck and Co. is spon-
soring a paid congressional intern-
ship program for journalism and
mass communications — students
from Feb. | through April 30,
1990. Applications for nomina-
tions are due May |. For more in-
formation call Julius Dickens at
(202)737-4900.

Cross-country
skiing plus
kayaking in the
pool

The Outing Club is sponsoring a
cross-country skiing trip to West
Virginia during the February
break. Interested students should
attend the organizational meeting
for the trip on Tues. Jan, 31 at 5
p.m. in Baker 106.

In addition, the club continues to
sponsor kayaking instruction Mon-
day evenings from 6-7 in the old
pool in the gym. No experience is
necessary.

 

 

Wilson

 

(continued from page |)
We are here. We are at W&L,”’
Wilson said.

He spoke on what he called unplea-
sant things because ‘‘I thought it was
time we paid each other the respect of
our candor.”’

George Washington and Robert E.
Lee founded W&L on ideals of
“honor, trustworthiness, duty, civili-
ty, Magnanimity and a compassionate
caring for others,’’ Wilson said.

Rather than simply recognizing
these traditional values on Founder's
Day, he asked students to ‘‘translate
them into living and contemporary
terms.”

SAB’s first Bingo Night
attracts more than 300

 

By Genienne Mongno
Staff Reporter

 

 

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

Right 7

“cy

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

Four Washington and Lee

_ students won big prizes and over 300

others just had fun at the Student Ac-
tivities Board’s Bingo night last Fri-
day, according to S.A.B. Vice-
chairman Charles Frankum.

Don Schaeffer, a senior from Lex-
ington, Ky., won a three-day cruise to
the Bahamas; Chris Boone, a sopho-
more from Lufkin, Texas, won a sev-
en-day trip to Cancun, Mexico,;

 

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

OXFORD

 

 

Just DownTheRoad.

 

brochures call 703-289-9441.

AnotherProminentinstitute
For Higher Learning,

 

Receive an education in central Virginia best midweek skiing values.
Lift tickets are only $18, for instance. Coupon books with eight tickets,
just $88. And our midweek lodging packages start at $38. For free

SkiMassanutten

10MilesEast Of Harrisonburg, Virginia,On Route 33,

Booklet can only be used by one person — non-transferable

 

 

 

Severai colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Cent,
'o recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior
status is required. and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges
and receive transcripts Irom their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. Col-
lege in Oxford. A special summer session is directed by WISC

INTERN IN
WASHINGTON, LONDON

 

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House. with the media and
with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level government
officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journ:!ists. Similar opportunities in public
policy internships are offered (with academic credit) im London (Fall, Spring and Summer)

WSC

 

The Washington International Studies Center
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 230
Washington, D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275

 

EO/ AA

-

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HARDWARE STORES ©

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

eV e
YOUR

ON TO

Marie Buttarazzi, a third- year law
student from Fairport, N.Y., won a
VCR; and J. Wayne Burris, a junior
from Lynchburg, Va., won a Ninten-
do game.

There were also numerous other
smaller prizes including Fancy Dress
packages and movie passes, said
Frankum.

The idea for Bingo night belonged
to S.A.B. member Michael Ap-
plebaum and it was organized by
Frankum.

Frankum_ said S.A.B. was en-
couraged Ly the large turnout and
“broke about even”’ for the night.

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

  
 
   
    

        
  

Ll emake Be

Friday, February 24
8:30 P.M. GHQ

Enter our lip synch contest, Rock
Alike, and help raise money to fight
multiple sclerosis.

lhe most popular performance
on campus raises the most money
and qualifies for a chance to appear
live on MTV."

Contact your SAMS: campus
chairperson or call 1-800-I-BUST-MS
to participate. Help =
us short circuit MS.

   

  

NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY

 

SAMS 1s sponsored by:

 

maxell E> Lit

Bhs
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1989

 

Tech’s Hokies wreck F-_

trailed victorious Longwood (70),

, Wo

wrestlers’ happiness [eile

By Chris Baradel
Staff Reporter

To talk to Washington and Lee
wrestling coach Gary Franke on
Wednesday afternoon was to talk to a
seemingly content man. His squad had
just finished fifth in the nine team
W&L Invitational, missing fourth by a
mere point, and, more importantly, it
was performing to nearly the top of its
potential. However, Wednesday night
did not bring such good cheer as
visiting Virginia Tech rudely treated
its hosts, winning the dual meet 39-
-I1.

First, the good news. Saturday's fif-
th-place finish was made even more
remarkable by the fact that the Gen-
erals did not even enter a competitor
in three weight classes. In fact, it

* would not have been inconceivable for
the team to have claimed third place
had the Generals been at full strength.
Officially, W&L’s 39 team points

Gettysburg (54.5), Furman (46.5),
and Gardner-Webb with 40 points.

Individually, five W&L wrestlers
had big days. Senior Rich Redfoot,
masterful as always, won the 190-
pound title. Sophomore Larry Pilkey
(10-4 as of Thursday) and _ fine
freshman Peer Soderberg at 158 both
made the finals of their weight classes,
but did not capture the championship.
Senior Manoli Loupassi was third in
the 177-pound division, and sopho-
more Bill Avery came in fourth at
150.

Franke said that all five wrestlers
who placed did well, emphasizing
that, ‘‘We wrestled to the top of our
potential in the classes where we plac-
ed.”’ He was ‘‘not surprised’’ that
those individuals did as well as they
did, saying that they had shown the
capacity before. He was pleased with
Loupassi, a senior captain, who
sprung from an unseeded position to
earn third place in his weight class.

Senior Richard Redfoot seems in com

urday’s W&L Invitational.

W&L scheduled the match against
Tech, a Division I school, because the
only way to get weekday meets is to
schedule in-state schools. While
Franke was not thrilled about facing a
team full of scholarship players, his
team had already faced Division I
wrestlers (from Furman), and he

hoped that perhaps the meet ‘‘could
help prepare us down the road...”’
Predictably, after a pin by Pilkey
evened the score at six apiece, Tech’s
superior depth and ability took hold.
The Hokies captured 27 points in a
row on two pins, one forfeit, and three
decisions. This iced the match, but

 

 
 
 

My

ee

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

plete control of his first-round opponent in Sat-

Redfoot, once again wrestling after
the match had already been decided,
was spectacular. He dominated his
opponent from beginning to end,
feeding him a thorough drubbing to
win by technical fall in the second
period. It was the highlight of the
evening for W&L.

Generals falter at Hampden-Sydney; remain atop ODAC standings

“By Jay Plotkin
‘ Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee basketball
tteam had something to prove to itself
over the past week.
The Generals know they can win at
:home (they are undefeated in the
Warner Center so far this season), but
‘it is the long and winding road that has
, caused problems for W&L. This past
week the Generals undertook a vicious
’ four-game road trip.
This tough road swing for W&L all
began last Thursday, starting with a
* stop in Bridgewater.
The teams traded baskets until
Bridgewater took a 20-15 lead on
‘Todd Deberry’s three pointer with
9:19 left in the first half. Deberry,
BC’s leading scorer, scored seven
first half points and finished with 10,
well below his 16.9 average. When
Bridgewater's own round mound of
something, Ben Beach, hit two free
_throws with 5:16 left, the Eagles led

26-25. That proved to be their last
lead of the night.

Senior guard Lee Brading put the
Generals in front, scoring seven of the
team’s last 11 points in the half to give
the Generals a 36-29 lead. He scored
10 of his team-high 17 in the first half
on four of six shooting, and the Gen-
erals led at halftime by the score of
36-31.

In the second half, the Generals
were without sophomore center and
leading scorer Chris Jacobs for much
of the time (foul trouble), but the
Eagles only made one serious run at
W&L.

Sophomore forward Edward Hart
stepped to the forefront for W&L,

however, and put the Generals out of
danger. W&L could then relax and
coast to its 74-64 victory.

On Saturday, the Generals ventured
out of the conference to take on Mary
Washington, where they had never
won. W&L overcame a rather slow
start—down 13-0 early—to win the
game 94-85 and extend its winning

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inthe

dark.

Night skiing at Wintergreen.

 

 

We invite you to spend an unforgettable night at Wintergreen
On top of our mountain, you'll find five slopes, lit, ready: and
Waiting for your skiing pleasure. And they stay open until out

I} p.m. closing time
So come early and stay late.

Because along with the best snowmaking equipment in the
Mid-Atlantic, vou ll find great food and great entertainment
Wintergreen. Just 43 miles southwest of Charlottesville

For thrill after thrill in the dark

For overnight reservations, call 1-804-325-2200. For the latest ski

report, call 1-804-325-SNOW

Wintergreen

For special discounts see your campus representative.

streak to nine games.

On Tuesday, the Generals returned
to the ODAC to take on Hampden-
Sydney on the road. The last time
these two teams met, the Generals
walked all over the Tigers 94-74, and
head coach Verne Canfield knew
payback was on the minds of Hamp-
den-Sydney. ‘‘They will be, as they
say, waiting for us. They have been
playing well of late. They have a lot of
fire power, and they will be highly
motivated, ”’

Hampden-Sydney was
highly

indeed
motivated. The Generals,

though, were able to weather the first

Tiger flurry, leading 41-39 at the half.

Canfield’s main worry prior to the
contest was not to get involved in a
running game with Hampden-Sydney.
**Sydney wants to play very much an
up-tempo game, and that is some con-
cern of mine, because we've been
playing an up-tempo game, yet I don’t
think we can play it all the time.

The Tigers then came out running in
the second half, going on a 9-2 run to
lead 48-43. The Generals closed to
48-46 on a Brading three-point play,
but that would be as close as W&L

would get. Ralph Baker’s (22 points)
three-point bomb put the Tigers up 60-
49 at the 15:00 mark, and they never
looked back, running to a 93-79 win
exclamated by Orson Williams’ (16,
I! rebounds) dunk with five second
left to stop the Generals nine-game
streak,

Next up for the 12-3, 6-1 Generals
is conference co-leader Emory &
Henry tonight on the road (WLUR-
FM will broadcast the game live). The
Generals finally return home Saturday
to take on Lynchburg on Alumni
Weekend.

Women swimmers undaunted despite two losses

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

The women’s swim team remains
undefeated in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference and undaunted by
its recent losses to non-conference op-
ponents Georgetown and Johns
Hopkins. These past meets served
more as training than as realistic com-
petition.

This strategy has paid off with
unexpected results. Sophomore
Sharon Coleman’ broke “the school
record in the 200-yd_ individual
medley a week ago against UNC -

Fine Cuisine
WAN ATMOSPHERE SuPREME

“Over 56 years of quelity feed”
STEAKS ¢ SEA FOOD
GREEK @ ITALIAN SPRAIALTION
© CARRY OUTMEAVKE ;

SORT wean

Ueacd on Mondny

SSO Tray)
aie

Choe ACeareo 32.8. 0A LAXMERTON. VA.

 

 

 

 

    
 

    

Route 60 East
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
(703) 463-3181

Soe ES eS EEE SS Ce

pom ememenremy

YOU QUALIFY FOR
INSTANT CREDIT!

Start making credit pur-
chases IMMEDIATELY! We

& will send you a Members

Credit Card at once with
NO CREDIT CHECK. Buy any
Jewelry, Clothing,Sport-
ing Goods,Watches, Elec-
tronics & MORE! All with
installment payments out
of our "Giant 100+ Pages
Catalog." Take 12 months
to repay. Your personal
credit card is a -second
I.D.- valuable for check
cashing, etc. plus your
Students Credit Group

A-1 reference will be on
file to help you obtain

Gtner credit eacds. §6
Sénd in your $35 cacalar
deposit now. (refundable

with your first order)

Establish your creda Today!

100% Satisfaction Guaranteed ge ———
(or your Money Back) are |

Name =

 

i

g
|

TH AAEMBERS °.0.80x 4649

Students FORT LAUDERDALE,
FLORIDA 33338 =f

CREO Gane
ee

   

Still training intensively, the team is
looking forward to the beginning of a
resting phase. Spirits are high,
though, despite the grueling regimen.

“It’s unusual for everyone to be in
such good spirits,’ said Remillard.
“In the middle of the season that’s not
expected.”’

The women will need to hold on to
that adrenalin for their next two
meets. The first is at 7 p.m. on Friday
against Shepherd College. Then on
Saturday they will compete against
Gettysburg at 1 p.m. Both meets will
be at home, and both competitors will
be fierce. Remillard is optimistic. §

“If enthusiasm is any indicator, we
are a very healthy, strong team.”’

Gettier’s Gifts
CARDS, POSTERS & GIFTS

Route 60 W. across from Keydet General
Plenty of Parking

1 Charlotte. Freshman Jodi Herring
upset her Hopkins rivals to win the 50-
yard freestyle event.

Head Coach Page Remillard is pro-
ud of the women for their attitudes:
toward these particularly challenging
meets and for their gutsy perfor-
mances.

“‘The women have inherited a
difficult schedule because many
schools want meets with both men and
women,” he said. ‘‘Often, in order
for the men to compete, the women
have to race also. As a consequence,
there are some teams —-which the
women aren't yet prepared for, but
they do well in ways that the final
score doesn’t always show.’

  

    
   
 

 

 

Generals basketball live on 91.5
WLUR-FM

Tonight v. E&H Coverage begins at 7:20

 

 

EEE EERE EEE ARES ESSE SEER SE OES EEE BSS EEHE IO

AUTO PARTS, INC.

    

ROCKBRIDGE

 
 
    

1903 SYCAMORE AVENUE
BUENA VISTA, VIRGINIA 24416
(703) 261-6191

     
  
 
  

    

SS A A AO A NAS

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

 

Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

 

23 N. Main St.
(703) 463-5988

MB

     

 

ia
ere Oo

 

audiotronics

VIRGINIA’S STEREO SPECIALIST

YAMAHA ALPINE
DENON BOSTON
B&O CWD

KEF SONANCE
SIGNET B&K
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

Bercaw leads
swimmers

by Georgetown

By Tom Wingfield
Staff Reporter

 

 

One might say the Washington and
Lee men’s swim team had an up and
down couple of days this past week-
end on its trip to Baltimore and Wash-
ington.

The Generals faced the Georgetown
Hoyas on Saturday afternoon at less
than full strength as some of the key
members of the team were fighting il-
Inesses. Despite this factor and the
thirty points W&L spotted the Hoyas
after the diving competition, the Gen-
erals went on to win the dual meet
125-95.

The Generals were sparked by
strong performances from both
Jeff Bercaw and David Olson.
‘“Bercaw is beginning to swim like I
know he can,”’ said head coach Page
Remillard. ‘tHe really keyed us this
weekend. ”’

After defeating the Hoyas the Gen-
erals headed north to Baltimore where
they faced rival Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity. W&L was the victim of some
bad luck on this particular Sunday
afternoon. First of all, senior David
Dietz fell prey to a misjudged wall as
he completely missed the wall on a
flip turn in the 50 freestyle. This
resulted in a sixth place finish and a
time Dietz has not had since grammar
school.

“| have been practicing a new flip
technique because I’ve been turning
too close to the wall. I guess I just mis-
judged the wall and flipped too far - I
simply missed the turn.”’

The other General misfortune came
in the form of a disqualification in the
200 breaststroke. Olson was the un-
fortunate victim as it was ruled he
used an illegal butterfly kick instead of
the proper method. This resulted in a
fifteen point swing against W&L
because Olson had won the event.

These two mishaps really put W&L
in a hole, but the Generals didn’t sur-
render. ‘‘We made a great effort to get
back into a situation to win. It came
down to the final relay where we were
touched out by six-tenths of a second.
We showed a lot of poise and com-
posure in our comeback. Hopefully
performances like these will spring us
into great post season performances,”’
said Remillard.

Despite. the 111-93.Joss to Hopkins,
Remillard is very pleased with his
swimming at this point in the season.
‘“‘We are swimming very well at a
time when there is usually a let down
in the season. The guys are keeping
high spirits and they know faster times
now will result in faster tapering times
later,’” he said.

Other strong performances for the
Generals came from senior David
Reavy, junior Shawn Copeland and
Jay Smith, all of whom are making a
lot of progress this year.

The Generals’ next two meets are
both at home — Friday against Shep-

herd and Saturday versus Gettysburg

— in the friendly confines of Cy
Twombly Pool.

WINTER scr SLOSH

TTA ae if a e a et
Saturday, January 28th

$8 Couple

$5 Single

Ticket Sales:
Thurs., Jan. 26th 4-6 p.m., Fri., Jan. 27th 1 p.m.
RTre taco MNCO MR Oot og

$10 T-Shirts (limited quantity available)

Live Drive will be available at the University Center

 

 

 

 

   
  
 

 

125 W. Nelson

 

4

Mountain
—— Copy-Graphics
OAR oe meh ey amt nt as
Get top-quality copies in large quantities

WHILE YOU WAIT!

We now can produce over 100 copies/minute.

Most copies &¢, reduced prices for large quantities
re, G =

   
  
  

463-1712

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
    

—

 

Hairstylist

136 Varner Lane
463-3975

— George’s
é

Open Evenings

\
. hurs. till 7:00 p.m.

   

  
      
 
    

 

=
‘
«
*,
*
®
4
2

oo
ne

wala raialingsctall |,

ig tg

ag"
 

‘BACK PAGE

 

Calling All Seniors

Contribute to

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

Some time last term I overheard a
sophomore complaining about
coeducation and thought to myself
*‘What gives him to right to com-
plain about it? If he didn’t like it he
shouldn’t have come to Washington
and Lee.”’

For us seniors, it seems that
coeducation and its effects on our
beloved institution has been the
topic of concern from day one.
Some of the discussion has been
enlightening while some of it has
been so outrageously absurd that it
was embarrassing. Nevertheless,
the arguments, the feelings and the
emotions rage on waging whether
coeducation has been good or bad
and whether or not it ever should
have been instituted in the first

place.

‘‘A Look at Coeducation: 4 years later’

Now, Seniors, it is your turn to
speak.

In the last couple weeks of the
term I am going to put together a
special supplement to the Ring-tum
Phi called ‘‘A Look at Coeducation:
Four Years Later.’’ The supple-
ment will be comprised of letters
from President Wilson, selected
deans and professors and from you
the senior class.

I have chosen to use only letters
from our class because we are the
only ones who can justifiably carry
on this conversation. We were the
first coeducational class and we are
the only class to have experienced
that.

I think it is safe to say that many
of the large wrinkles that we en-
countered in September, 1985 were
ironed out by the time the class
behind us arrived in 1986. We were
the first, we were the most focused

on, and if nothing else we are the
transition between the Washington
and Lee of old and that of the
future. And because of that, it is
time to put all of our thoughts, feel-
ings and emotions into a concise col-
lection to see where coeducation at
Washington and Lee is, where it has
been and where it is going.

The senior letter section of the
supplement will be made up of
somewhere between 35 to 45 letters.
Unfortunately, due to financial and
special restrictions, we cannot af-
ford to print every letter we receive.
We will however, include as many
as possible.

The letters should be between 400
and 500 words and should be well
written and legible. A_ selection
panel of two professors, two
students and myself will choose the
letters for inclusion based on their
clarity and their content. The use of

libelous or profane language in any
letter is strictly prohibited and will
be grounds for exclusion from con-
sideration. Letters should be
brought to the Ring-tum Phi office
on the second floor of the University
Center by Friday, February 10 (the
day we leave for Washington Break)
at noon.

This can be a very worthwhile col-
lection if you take the time to be
heard. Too often I think we have
had meaningful things to say but
have never taken the necessary time
to sit down and write a letter. Now
is the opportunity to come together
as a class; as the first class, to once
and for all vent all of our frustra-
tions and ali of our emotions about
the one thing that has dominated
our lives for the past four years.
Please take the time to contribute.
Make this something we can all be

proud of.

Heat of the Night and Midnight Caller
lead excellent programming on NBC

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

Some time ago somewhere near the
beginning of the *80’s there was a tur-
naround in television that few could
believe. NBC had taken home the last
place trophy in the Nielsens for who
knows how long while CBS and ABC
wallowed at the top supported by the
occasional mini-series and a host of
mediocre programming. Then, the
wonderkid showed up at NBC.

Brandon Tartikoff, the now head of
NBC, turned the network around from
last place and put it at the top of the
ratings. Quality, intelligent program-
ming is what gave NBC the edge and
is exactly what will keep it at the top
of the ratings.

In the Heat of the Night and Mid-
night Caller are two of the programs
that will keep it there and two of the
best shows to come along in years.

From Hill Street Blues to the current
hit L.A. Law, it is clear that NBC

decided that intelligent programs deal-
ing with morals and ethics were the
way to go. Now with the addition of
the two new programs, the argument
strengthens. But so does NBC’s pro-
gramming.

In the Heat of the Night is based on
the 1967 Norman Jewison film that
won five Academy Awards including
Best Picture. Sidney Poitier plays a
big city detective who comes south to
help a Redneck sheriff, played by Rod
Steiger, solve a bizarre murder
mystery. The film hasn't lost any of
its timeliness at all and neither has the
program.

Harold Rollins of Ragtime and A
Soldier’s Story fame plays Mr. Tibbs
while Carroll O’Connor who every-
one remembers as the cranky Archie
Bunker on All in the Family takes on
Steiger’s role as the sheriff.

Just as effectively as the film, Jn the
Heat of the Night takes on the racial
issues of a black man living in the
deep south during the ‘60s, and adds

Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture

1155S. Main St

463-2742

All Undergraduate Students are invited for dinner
and Bible Study in the Parish Library of R.E. Lee Epis-
copal Church this Sunday, January 29, at 6:00 p.m.

See you there!

 

 

 

Tired of Tom, Steve and Mel? The FAST LANE.

Do it.

12 Noon-Midnight Monday-Thyrsday
Saturday 12 p.m.-1 a.m.
Fridays Open Until 2 a.m.

Sunday Noon-Midnight

 

Midnight Bowl Special
11:00-2 a.m. Fridays
Music and Prizes

 

 

 

to them. The program presents the
issue of predjudice, but never harps
on it as the only issue. It deals with
other sensitive issues such as incest as
well.

In the Heat of the Night is an intel-
ligent look at life in the south during
the 60’s (the show is set in Sparta,
Mississippi) and at many of the moral
and ethical problems facing us today.
The acting is excellent and the pro-
gram very worthwhile.

The other new NBC program set-
ting the world on fire is Midnight
-aller starring Jack Cole and Wendy
<ilbourne. Cole plays Jack Killian, a
once-time cop who accidently shot his
partner in the crossfire during a drug
bust. Killian now works as a late-night
radio talk show host who deals with a
different ethical dilemma each night
and then takes calls from the public.

Midnight Caller is one of the best
new programs to come along in years.
Every episode is incredibly well-done
and timely. One episode dealt with a

man who had AIDS, who knew he had
the disease and who continued to in-
fect people. Last week’s episode,
timely with the Bundy execution
earlier this week, was about capital
punishment and the last thoughts of a
man ready to die for his crime.

The program always follows the
same format and always sums up the
moral questions and answers at the
end. If you have seen The Hitchhiker
on HBO, Midnight Caller is much like
that. It’s not quite as bizarre as The
Hitchhiker but it’s equally as good if
not better.

In the Heat of the Night comes on
NBC, channel 10, on Tuesday night at
9p.m..

Midnight Caller comes on NBC,
channel 10, on Tuesday night at 10
p.m..

 

 

1! SALE !!

 

1” Vinyl
Ring Binders
5 1 95 6a.

 

Available in:

Black, Dark Blue, Blue, only.

 

 

23 West Washington St.

 

THIS AND MORE CURRENTLY ON SALE AT:
J&B fice Fopply

Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-3432

 

 

 

Wolff System Tanning Bed

Merle Norman Studio
College Square Shopping Center

Jewelry - Manicures
Sculptured Nails, Facial Waxing

Monday-Friday
10 a.m. -7 p.m.
Saturday
10 a.m. -5 p.m.

463-1782
Rt. 11 North

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

1 Mil St
Staunten, Va
885-3409

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, italian And

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

Serving Dinner Nightly 5 pm to Close

Cajun Dishes

Reservations suggested

 

 

 

     
 

aes ii tadade hate etete dete ta ala de bel tet ata attee manent ta alee, 2.22 SR SSS SS ERS

UNIVERSITY PRINTING CENTER
Reid Hall

 
 
  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1989

calendar |

Friday, January 27

Deadline for applications for Washington Term Program (Congres-
sional Internship in Spring Term). See Prof. Connelly, Room 108,
Commerce School.

4 & 7:30 p.m.—RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: Brothers Karamozov.
Room 203, Reid Hall.

7 p.m.—SWIMMIMG: Generals vs. Shepherd College. Twombly
Pool.

8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: Hope and Glory(England,
Classroom ‘‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.

1987).

8 p.m.—RELIGION DEPARTMENT LECTURE: ‘‘Who Goes There?
The Certainties and Uncertainties of Sexuality, Anima and Animus,”’
Ann Belford Ulanov, professor of psychiatry and religion, Union
Theological Seminary, and Barry Ulanov, professor of English, Bar-
nard College, Lee Chapel. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: INDOOR TRACK: Virginia Tech Invita-
tional (through January 28).

Saturday, January 28

GMAT Exam. Commerce School.

1 p.m.—SWIMMING: Generals vs. Gettysburg College. Twombly
Pool.

1:30 p.m.—OPERA BROADCAST: Bluebeard's Castle (Bartok); Er-
wartung (Schoenberg). WLURIFM (91.5).

5 p.m.—ALUMNI BASKETBALL GAME: Warner Center.

7:30 p.m.—RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: Brothers Karamazov. Room
203, Reid Hall.

7:30 p.m.—BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Lynchburg College. Warner
Center.

8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: Hope and Glory(England, 1987).
Classroom ‘‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.

Monday, January 30
3:30 p.m.—MATHEMATICS COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Primes in

Arithmetic Progressions,’’ George T. Gilbert, Department of
Mathematics, St. Olaf College. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments
at 3 p.m. in Room 21. Public invited.

Tuesday, January 31

7:30 p.m.—BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Guilford College. Warner
Center.
7:30 p.m.—WRESTLING: Generals vs. Gustavas Adolphus. Warner
Center.

Wednesday, February 1

8 a.m.—ECUMENICAL PRAYER SERVICE: Lee Chapel. Public in-
vited.

4 p.m.—HYPERTEXT LECTURE SERIES: ‘‘Going completely Hy-
per with HYPERCARD and HYPERTALK,”’ Kenneth Lambert, assis-
tant professor of computer science, W&L. Room 221, Commerce
School. Public invited.

4:30 p.m.—GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: Poetry reading
by Margaret Gibson. Northern Auditorium, University Library. Recep-
tion and book signing to follow in Boatwright Room. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN’S SWIMMING: Hollins.

Thursday, February 2

3:30 p.m.—MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Inner Fuactions in One and
Several Variables,’’ Barbara MacCluer, University of Richmond.
Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3 p.m. in Room 21. Public in-
vited.

5 p.m.—CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Toby Allen ‘90 and Mike Stancina
‘90. Room 401. Howe Hall. Refreshments served at 4:30 in Room 402.
Public invited.

7:30 p.m.—BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Emory & Henry. Warner
Center.

EAA
Seniors: Please
Contribute to the
eee eae

 

 

 

Old Main St. Mall
nanan Va. 24450

Leen
COURTESY

DOUG TURRELL ’87
ee

See
2019 Forest Ave. Office: 261-2112
Buena Vista Home: 463-1952

Offering quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job retum,}
and competitive pricing, we are here to meet your printing needs.

    
   

 

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of

  
   

    
   
  

 

 

A Rt i, iy, ly iy A a i

Flyers Announcements ee } For all of your automotive needs,
ee ere Gone en a see meat COURTESY FORD
464-2695 University Printing Center 463-6448 f MERCURY in Buena Vista.

   

 
 
 

 
