 

 

VOLUME 88, NO. 16

Don’t miss the FD supplement

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

EER? ih

Lip Sync tomorrow night

See page 4

 

 

 

Che King-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Men’s and women’s swimming
take titles

  
 
 

See page 5

  

FEBRUARY 23, 1989

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

Ladies and gentlemen of Wash-
ington and Lee, welcome to An
Evening Excursion on the Orient
Express; the 82nd annual Fancy
Dress Ball.

Since the origin of our little get-
together in 1907, Fancy Dress has
grown into what the New York
Times once called ‘‘the biggest col-
legiate social event in the South.”’
Naturally we like to believe it still
is, and looking at this year’s Ball
especially, we can easily support
the claim.

Fancy Dress will officially kick
off Thursday night around 8 p.m.,
when the Fabulous Waller Family
opens for the undisputed king of
the blues, B.B. King in what pro-
ves to be the best concert we have

 

NY alumni sponsor

seen at the pavilion in tour years.
Known for many years as the con-
summate entertainer, B.B. King
will surely excite and please those
who come to hear him play Thurs-

day night.

Then, on to Friday night, the big
night, the night of the Fancy Dress
Ball itself. The night that people
get lost in their anticipation, their
expectations and the realization of
their hopes, dreams and fantasies.

As you and your date approach
Fancy Dress 1989, two enormous
search lights will criss-cross the
skies over the Warner Center while
lighted lampposts lead the way to
your excursion on the Orient Ex-
press. A_ red-carpeted staircase
flanked by trees with miniature
white lights will lead to the en-
trance of the Warner Center where

career day in the city

* By David Emrich

Staff Reporter

 

For two days last week, the Career
Development and Placement Office

* became a travel agency that offered

students the chance to spend at least
part of their Washington Break in
New York City. The students who
took advantage of the offer were not,
however, in the city to relax and take
in the sights. Rather, they were there
to meet with alumni and learn
something about career opportunities
in New York City.

According to Director of Career
Services N. Rick Heatley, 42 students
(including 11 who aren’t seniors) and
at least 31 alumni met on Monday,
Feb. 13, in the Executive Dining
Room of the Chemical Bank Head-
quarters in New York.

Heatley said two W&L alumni who
work for Chemical Bank, Ollie
Mendell ’50, and Don Hogle °75, ar-
ranged to provide, free of charge, the
refreshments and the dining room.

Heatley said the students and alumni

’ arrived at around 6 p.m., signed in,

‘tand then just enjoyed visiting and
talking with each other; catching up

* on friendships and connections and

i

, an hour,

¥

discussing career opportunities and
work prospects.

‘*We let that go, at large, for about
an hour-and-fifteen-
minutes,’’ said Heatley, ‘‘and then,
by announcement, said that we would
have a breakout.

‘At that announced time, all the
students went around to different sides
and corners of the room where signs

‘ were posted about different career

. fields; advertising, sales, financial

:

services, investment banking,’’
among others, said Heatley.

‘*Very specifically, in those little
sectors, [the students and the alumni]

* talked about the things that concerned

 

them,”’ said Heatley.

According to Heatley the reception
went so smoothly that he had trouble
getting the students and alumni to stop
talking. He said, ‘‘We planned for
[the reception] to run from 6:00 to
8:00, and people got in there and en-
joyed it so much that we finally had to
break things off about 8:30 and let
people be on their way.’’

“We hope, by the grapevine effect,
that there will be more [alumni] that
throw in with this effort in New York
who actually have specific positions to
be filled,’’ said Heatley.

Some of the students who par-
ticipated in the event said they thought
the reception went very well consider-
ing it was the first time it had been
organized and that they found it to be
helpful.

Senior Stephanie Coleman thought
the reception was ‘‘a good idea’’ and
“a good start.”’

She said one particular [alumnus]
even gave her the name of a prospec-
tive contact.

Senior Scott Yates said, ‘‘There
was a good response and all the
alumni were very helpful in whatever
manner they could be.’’

Tom Herndon, also a senior, said
“Considering it was the first time, I
thought the turnout was good.”’

He said he thought the reception
was valuable because he was able to
gain experience in a social situation
like a professional reception. Said
Herndon, ‘‘The social situations help
you to get an interview in the first
place.”’

Herndon also said, ‘‘It was nice to
know that alumni are there and willing
to help.”’

Michael Patrick, a freshman, said
he participated in order to gauge what
employers are looking for
“‘education-wise’’ and also to look

(Please See Career, page 4

costumed security guards will meet
you to stamp your ticket with the
official stamp of the Venice-
Simplon Orient Express.

The Warner Center, separated
into four different cities, will act as
an elegant ballroom while the
sounds of the Lester Lanin Or-
chestra sweep you off your feet.
Looking into the Warner Center
from the doorway, a scene from
Zurich, Switzerland, will sit in the
front left corner of the gym, a
scene from Paris, France, in the
right front corner, a scene from
London, England, in the left rear
corner and a scene from Istanbul,
Turkey, in the right rear corner.

The wall behind the Lester Lanin
Orchestra will be covered with
flags from Italy, England, France,
Austria, Turkey, Switzerland and
West Germany, all countries to

     

All aboard the Orient Ex

which the Orient Express travels.
On the opposite wall, where the
stairs lead up to the 500-level of the
Warner Center, there will be the
facade of a train station railway
platform with signs leading to
‘*Platform A’’ and ‘‘Platform B’’
up the left and right staircases.

On top of the balcony next to the
railing looking over the gym will
sit an actual-size replica of the
bar/salon car from the Continental
Train of the Orient Express. The
side of the 10 by 40 foot car to the
inside of the balcony will be open

like a cross-section so that viewers
can see the intricacies of the inside
of the car and so they can hear the
live pianist who will add extra
entertainment on the balcony level
from inside the car.

The Doremus gymnasium will
feature the facade of a train around
the upper railing that surrounds the
track. Silhouetted passengers will
appear as a light continually circles
the inside of the track giving the
impression that the train is actually
moving. The stage for the Fancy
Dress rock bands, The Young
Fresh Fellows and The Reivers,
will sit on the side of the gym op-
posite the administrative offices.

Perhaps as a fitting conclusion to
our night of wonder, a fireworks
display will shoot up over Wilson
Field around 12:30 a.m. and will
last about 30 minutes.

This year’s Ball promises to be
the best we have seen in many
years. With this year’s theme we

 

press

move back to the fine and the
elegant. Everything chosen for this
year’s Ball was chosen for its quali-
ty and its style. Every little detail
down to the authentic stamp at the
door and the costumed cigarette
girls, who will make the rounds

during the course of the ball, has
been carefully planned out to in-
sure the success of this year’s big
event. The SAB has put in over
1600 hours in preparation for the
1989 Fancy Dress Ball, and more

than anything, wants everyone who
goes to have a happy, safe and
memorable Fancy Dress.

Ladies and gentlemen of Wash-
ington and Lee, I present to you the
82nd annual Fancy Dress Ball; An
Evening Excursion on the Orient
Express. To the ballroom we go.

 

Fire at the Phi? Lexington fire and police respond to a smoke-filled darkroom in the women’s center Tuesday night.

 

Photo by: Cheryi Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Residents question if city
can support more stores

By Eleanor Nelson
Staff Reporter

 

Lexington and Rockbridge area
shoppers may soon have too many
new stores to choose from.

Three new shopping centers are
scheduled to open in the fall of 1989,
a Wal-Mart on Route 11 just north of
Lexington and a K-Mart and Food
Lion on Route 60 just east of Lexing-
ton.

A new Harris Teeter will also open
this March in the former Safeway lo-
cation on East Nelson Street.

But, many local residents and mer-
chants question whether the Lexing-
ton and Rockbridge area can support
so many new stores. They are also
concerned about the effect these new
stores will have on the existing stores
in the area.

File Photo

Rockbridge County shoppers can
choose from Kroger, Lexington’s

Market, the Rockbridge Food Coop-
erative, White Front Super Market,
Food Lion and Quality (in Buena
Vista); they can also choose from
over seven convenience stores: Stop-
In, East Lexington Store, Woods
Creek Grocery, East Lexington Stop-
In and Sycamore Farm Market.

Maxway manager Norman Smith
said, ‘‘I really don’t think the area has
the population to support all these
stores,

‘People will probably go to the
new stores initially, simply to check
them out and take advantage of their
grand opening bargains and gim-
micks; We’ll have to do something to
attract them back to us.’’

K-Mart and Wal-Mart will have to
compete with Roses, Maxway, Leg-

get, Shoe Show, Pic ’n Pay, Peebles,
the Outlet Stores, The Thrift Shop
and others.

Local realtor Otis Mead said,
‘*People who come to the hotels and

the horse center are not typically go-
ing to shop at such stores as Wal-Mart
or K-Mart or shop at many grocery
stores.

“If the need and the market for
these stores is here, then it will be
good for the community; if the need is
not here, then it could be counter-
productive.’’

‘*When we talk about growing in-
dustry in Lexington, the bulk of it is
tourism, bringing in travel dollars,”’
Mead said. He added that most of
those dollars go to service facilities
catering to the travel industry such as
food, lodging, auto services and odd
sundries.

Lex says
‘NO way’
to one-ways

By Greg Euston
Staff Reporter

 

 

Lexington City Council considered
and rejected a recommendation from
the Virginia Department of Transpor-
tation last week that suggested mak-
ing Washington and Nelson streets
one-way.

One-way Washington and Nelson
streets have been considered before
and the answer is always the same —
it would be too disruptive to automo-
bile traffic and commerce.

City Manager Joe King said the
DOT’s recommendation was based
on the number of cars traveling on
those streets and safety factors.
However, it is only advice from the
state because the state has no jurisdic-
tion in this kind of matter, he said.

W&L professor Charles Phillips
Jr., former mayor of Lexington, recal-

(_JPlease See One-way, page 4

House Mountain for sale

Two conservation groups face fundraising deadline

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Rockbridge County’s House Moun-
tain has been put up for sale, and two
conservation organizations have
started a $325,000 fundraising drive
to make sure the mountain is kept
open to the public and out of the hands
of developers.

The Rockbridge Area Conservation
Council and the Virginia Outdoors
Foundation have been granted an op-
tion to purchase more than 900 acres,
including both of the mountain's
peaks and the valley in between, but
the two groups must raise the entire
purchase price by April 8.

For more than 20 years, House
Mountain has been owned by David
White, who kept the land open to
hikers, campers and turkey hunters.
When White decided to sell the land
last fall, Lexington attorney Larry

ee ee

Mann organized the Save House
Mountain Committee to keep the area
undeveloped and open to visitors.

Mann enlisted the help of the VOF,
an organization created by the General
Assembly in 1986 to preserve the
state’s open lands for public use. He
secured a six-month option from
White to allow time for fund-raising,
and the VOF later obtained an exten-
sion so that the option will not expire
until April 8.

Mann, Tuesday, said his committee
had so far raised less than $50,000,
but he said he is ‘‘extremely en-
couraged’’ by community support and
confident area residents and students
will rally behind the project.

If the conservation groups are suc-
cessful, the land will become property
of the VOF, which owns nature
preserves in the Bull Run Mountains
in northern Virginia and at Smith
Point on the Chesapeake Bay

However, under its agreement with
the VOF, RACC will determine how
the land wiil be used.

House Mountain is about five miles
west of Lexington and just north of
Collierstown. The mountain rises
from about 2100 feet at its base to
peaks of 3386 feet at the top of Little
House Mountain, the peak closest to
Lexington, and 3645 feet at the top of
Big House Mountain.

Mann said there will be a walking
tour of the mountain Sunday for those
interested in showing their support for
the project. There are also plans for
local school children to write poems
about the mountain and for area high
school students to study the biology of
House Mountain, he said.

‘*We will have to work hard, but I
am convinced that, between the two
groups (RACC and the VOF), we can
raise the money to keep this land open
to the public,”’ said Mann
OPINION

Reflections
on FD 1989

It’s that time of year again.
People have been talking about it literally since Christmas — what
to expect, what to wear and most important, what will the theme be
for the 82nd Fancy Dress Ball?

An Evening Excursion on the Orient Express should prove to be
an extravagant ball. And as far as we know, there have been no
complaints. The Minority Student Association boycotted last year’s
Reconciliation Ball because the theme referred to the post-Civil
War oppression of blacks — news that made it into the Richmond
Times-Dispatch. Although the Student Activities Board made con-
cessions by not displaying the Confederate flag, not decorating with
a plantation motif and agreeing not to wear blue and gray uniforms, —

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 23, 1989

 

MSA still boycotted the ball.

SAB’s $100,000 Orient Express Ball is non-racist, non-sexist,

inoffensive and harmless.

There is also a higher degree of professionalism in this year’s
ball. A professional (W&L alumnus) designer created the party
paraphernalia, normally done by a student and the SAB bought a
replica of the Bar-Salon car from the original Orient Express. The
ball should prove to be fancier than in the past, rivalling any recent

Inaugural Ball.

We would like to encourage everyone to use Live Drive so the
82nd Fancy Dress Ball will be devoid of drinking and driving in-
cidents. Live Drive is scheduling van routes from Thursday night’s
concert at the pavilion and Saturday night’s fraternity parties.
However, since there is no scheduled route for Saturday night,
fraternities are encouraged to inform Live Drive if they will need its

services.

Live Drive will not be operating Friday night since the ball is
within walking distance for most people.
We hope you have a safe and fancy FD!

Values should
guide IFC rules

 

MY VIEW
By Mark A. Robertson

 

Previously, I wrote that the Inter-
fraternity Council (IFC) is a reac-
tionary committee. The administration
tells fraternities 16 follbW thé Fakes)
and mandates that fraternities police
each other. Coercion forces submis-
sion. (Jan. 19, The Ring-tum Phi.
“Students Respond to Sessions’
Views on Law and Honor,’’ page 3)
Chi Psi President Peter J. Coleman
says that I am mistaken. Mr. Coleman
states, ‘‘The IFC is not a reactionary
committee. The IFC has no power at
all!’’ I stand corrected. Tragically,
over the years, regulation has usurped
the IFC’s power.

Inter-fraternity legislation is subject
to the ratification of the Student Af-
fairs Committee. More often than
not, I hear fraternity members talking
about what solutions SAC will ap-
prove, instead of their own solutions.
Unfortunately, it appears that SAC’s
faculty members are elected largely
on the anti-fraternity attitudes. The
corollary is that SAC does not always
act in the best interests of the fraterni-
ty system.

Today, an adversarial relationship
exists between the administration and
the fraternity system. Case in point:

“’ SAC’s Dean Buddy Adkins states,

‘*The obligation of a specific fraterni-
ty is to get as many people as possible

to stay in Lexington and study. What

the hell do you want to do, party five
days a week? You've [the fraternity
system] been playing this stupid
charade for years.’’ On the other side

“of the issue, Pi Kappa Phi President

Jimmy Holmes said, ‘‘If we didn’t ac-
cept these (bylaws) something worse
would be forced on us by the school. It
was only a matter of time.’’ (Zhe
Ring-tum Phi, ‘‘Atkins cites frat
‘charade’,’’ Jan. 8, 1987.)

Additionally, the faculty lobbied for
a deferred rush in 1985 on the premise
that ‘‘impressionable’’ freshmen
would develop scholarly habits before
purguing ‘active’ social lives. (SAC’s
‘Relationship Between Academic and
Fraternity Life,’’ 1985.) This social
limitation for the ‘‘purpose of aca-
demic preservation’ was a socially in-
tolerable restriction and, therefore,
SAC of 1985 tactfully ‘‘revolted.’’
Unlike today, the SAC of 1985 acted
in the best interests of the fraternity
system during this dispute. SAC
pointed out that deferred rush would
actually prolong an intense social ac-
tivity instead of reducing it. Next,
SAC prevented the proposition for
reform from snowballing with quick,
decisive, and mildly compromising
action. SAC stated, ‘‘We recognize
their concerns and hence we will
agree to de-emphasize fraternity af-
filiation.’’ Notice, SAC specifically
states ‘‘their,’’ meaning only the fa-
culty’s concern, and not the concern
of fraternity members.

In 1985, the fear of antisocial
reform was SAC’s primary motive for
stating, ‘‘It is the faculty’s respon-
sibility to provide an environment
which is conducive to scholarly pur-
suits in the classroom only. It is not
the responsibility of the fraternity
system to provide an environment
conducive to academics outside the
classroom.’ This statement is ob-
viously a subtle insult. It justly implies
that the faculty is derelict. In

) Please See Robertson, Page 4

 

mt

a Lets drecHeall ‘as Can defor Pe Crowd ising

 

 

 

SDI is a deterrent, not an umbrella

 

MY VIEW
By James Lake

There was much rejoicing earlier
this month when former Sen. John
Tower, President Bush’s choice to be
our next secretary of defense, said the
Strategic Defense Initiative, or SDI,
would probably not be a total shield
against an all-out Soviet nuclear
assault.

Well, forgive me for being picky,
but I never thought it was going to be.
The strategic defense initiative is
designed to do what it says it does —
defend strategic strength. A Soviet
nuclear attack would, first and
foremost, seek to destroy America’s
nuclear weapons. But the SDI would,
for the first time, create a means of
defending those weapons against
Soviet attack. With it in place, the
Soviets cannot be certain to win a first
strike, because the SDI is designed to
kill enough incoming missles to pro-
tect our ability to respond.

Thus, as Richard Nixon has pointed
out, ‘‘even if it were only 50 percent
effective, [the SDI] would so com-
plicate the calculations for executing a
Soviet first strike that no Soviet leader
could ever be confident of success.”’
If a Soviet leader is not reasonably
certain that his first strike will rule out
a retaliatory strike, he will not launch
his missles. Even the Soviets would
not launch a first strike unless it is all
but certain to be a pre-emptory one.

Furthermore, the SDI can be effec-
tive as a shield against an accidental
Soviet launch of only a few missles or
against a small attack by a non-

 

superpower. When only a few missles
are launched, even an unsophisticated
anti-missle system would have a good
chance of destroying the incoming
warheads. While it may be only a
good chance, it’s better than no
chance at all, which is what we have
today.

Nevertheless, ever since Ronald
Reagan introduced the SDI concept,
many in Congress and the media have
been criticizing it for not being
something it’s not supposed to be in
the first place — namely, a total shield
against any and every incoming mis-
sle, no matter how massive the attack.

The PDI, or Populatation Defense
Initiative, is what they’re talking
about, and such a defense system
would of course be much more com-
prehensive. The PDI is an umbrella
that would protect the U.S. from any
incoming missle. Such a system is
neither currently feasible nor likely to
be developed anytime soon. But the
current futility of the PDI in no way
makes the SDI less credible or

. We can and in fact must
have the SDI; the PDI, while a nice
idea, is a long way off.

Given those differences, here’s why
SDI is a must:

First, a history lesson. When the
U.S. possessed nuclear superiority
over the Soviets, our arsenal was a
legitimate’ deterent to Soviet expan-
sionism. The president could simply
warn Moscow, ‘‘cut that out, or I'll
turn Moscow into an ash tray.’’ And
so the Soviets, when threatened, had
no choice but to back down.

Today, however, there is no U.S.
margin of superiority; if there is any
difference between the American and
Soviet arsenals, Moscow has the edge.

Thus the policy of mutually assured
destruction developed. It’s acronym is
MAD, as is the thinking behind it.
MAD goes like this: if the Soviets in-
vade Western Europe, the man in the
White House just might be nutty
enough to get the world destroyed
over it. In other words, even knowing
the Soviets would retaliate immediate-
ly, an American president might be
willing to launch a nuclear attack to
halt Soviet aggression.

The problems with MAD, beside
the obvious moral questions, involve
the precursor to a U.S. launch. Ob-
viously the Soviet invasion of a
smaller nation — say, Afghanistan —
is not enough of a threat to solicit a
U.S. nuclear assault by even the most
hard-line president. Suddenly, the
nuclear force that has kept the Soviets
at bay no longer exists.

This is why we need the SDI — the
strategic defense initiative. Strategic,
because it preserves our ability to res-
pond to a nuclear assault. And,
believe it or not, that simple fact can
prevent nuclear war as effectively as
the PDI.

Imagine an escalating crisis, but one
that begins over a relatively small
Soviet transgression — say, the rein-
troduction of Kremlin forces into
Afghanistan. The U.S. demands a
pullout and sends ships and supplies to
nearby Pakistan. But the Soviets don’t
budge; they insist they are in to stay
because they were invited by the
Afghan government.

Tensions build; the U.S. troop
presence in Pakistan increases.
Americans near the Afghan border die
when Soviet jets bomb rebel supply
lines. The U.S. retaliates by firing on
Soviet aircraft.

4

Suddenly, the unthinkable becomes,
thinkable, and the need for the SDI
becomes critical. Here’s why: '

WITHOUT THE SDI: One side —
it doesn’t matter which —becomes so
afraid of a total nuclear war that it?
decides to launch what it hopes will be
a pre-emptory strike. The thinking is,”
“if we can just wipe out their missiles, ,
our people and most of their people
will be safe.’’ The equipment needed’
for such a strike is already in place, so,
the missiles could be launched in a
matter of hours. In less than a day, a‘
small Soviet bombing of Afghan supp-
ly lines could escalate into Armag-t
gedon. 4

WITH THE SDI: The president, the,
Soviet premier and other leaders on
both sides realize that a pre-emptory
first strike, while possible in theory, is,
by no means guaranteed. The SDI,
even though it has never been tested,}
prevents a first strike by placing doubt,
in the minds of those considering it.
The confrontation remains conven->
tional and is diffused when the leaders
of the two sides realize just how
dangerous their game has become.)

Thus the importance of the SDI is in
fact greater than that of more or im-'
proved offensive weapons. As Nixon}
has pointed out, the relative number of
strategic warheads in the two super-
power arsenals.does not matter nearly )
as much as the vulnerability that ex-
ists. Without a trent to a Soviet’
first strike, it n't matter how .
many weapons or warheads the U.S.
has. The best way to prevent nuclear ‘
war is to make it less winnable, and ,
the SDI would do just that. It is, in,
every sense of the word, a’
peacemaker, and one we cannot live ,
without.

 

NEWS STAFF

OPINION PAGE STAFF

BUSINESS STAFF

is otherwise independent.

court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

PRR 6 sassscsscceccsssnsedenedesssesteissecee

Assignment Editor ............cccceceeseeseeeeeees
Sports EGUOL ........cccecccrrresessceccescrerssoess
Entertainment Editor .............0.0ccceeeeseees
Layout Editor ......cccccscsrsscssecercceveessesvees
i eee

COPY BAMOP ....cccccsesscsossscssesssosesosessees

Editorial Page Editor ................:cceseeceeee
COPPRIIIS oo doiceesccsecessievescsccsescasecoscsees

Besclenees MAROBOT occssccsiccesccseacssesicccccess

Assistant Business Manager ..................+.
Advertising Manager .............:0scseeseeeeeees
Circulation Manager .............cccseceesseeeees

The Ring-tum Phi

yueuegddenecsssecsegsstecsesesere Elizabeth Parkins

Heidi Read
Nancy Whalen

ssisteesssste eaters Eleanor Nelson
sauapaseaesesssssctbaicocencnecceccciynsniann Giana
ssssseeseees es neeses Michael Tuggle
ssrepeebsebecssssssteeeen seen Brooke Jarabek
sseesgegeeeees ssi ecieevss ee Cheryl Barrett

JuLee Messerich
Beth Freund

acchaeseeneeessssccsnctasessies apstiiee Kelly Putney

dunitiiundnianine Pamela Kelley
ceddsicaboaeedseassihssnenecssassc qa IE
ssseettetetas ss asiesusesssssaiie Jeff Woodland

sesseveccsousssssssecensessessees Christie Champlin

sssaeandsaseessesseeneness sesseeeses Fred Turpin
seajanseussissessssseieesea ts eneees Anne Dysart
Sisacecscescsscsveovecesessutavesssoses Karl Hanson

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year
at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Fuading for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of ‘he student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business » anager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The &ing-tum Phi office, Room 208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to
The Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current

 

 

 

Letter

CRC procedures violate student rights

To the Editors:

‘‘Date rape’’ has ordinarily been described as
nonviolent, but nonconsensual, sexual intercourse
between a man (the accused) and a woman (the
victim) who have not previously had a friendly re-
lationship. What concerns me, however, is that
most people fail to realize that ‘‘date rape’’ is no
different from ‘‘stranger rape’’ or ‘‘real rape.”’
Certainly no reasonable person could make a sen-
sible distinction between a rape that occurs be-
tween previously acquainted people and a rape
that occurs between strangers. Everyone has the
absolute legal right not to engage in sexual inter-
course at any time (with some exceptions for mar-
ried persons). Quite correctly, no state law makes
a legal distinction between ‘‘date rape’’ and
“stranger rape,’’ and the crime of rape is basical-
ly defined as nonconsensual sexual intercourse.
Moreover, rape has historically been one of the
most heinous crimes that a person could commit
(punishabie in Virginia by up to life in prison).

Considering the above, and the great stigma that
accompanies a rape conviction, I fail to perceive
where this institution discovered the power to
create the Confidential Review Committee (the
‘**CRC’’), a committee that has the authority to
expel a student for ‘‘date rape’’ while denying that
same student some of the most basic rights that are
essentiai to a fair and impartial hearing. It is true

that a private college is a self-governing institu-

‘tion that may impose more stringent standards of

conduct than state governments can a im-
pose on their citizens, and that private colleges are
also not subject to the constitutional requirement
of due process. But one must seriously question
the validity of the self-governing procedures of a
private college when those procedures become ex-
tremely prejudicial and inequitable.

The very fact that members of the CRC are ap-
pointed by the President of the College, and not
elected by the student body, is a highly offensive
notion. Additionally, the majority of the CRC is
composed of faculty members (not students), and
that directly conflicts with the legitimate claim to
a trial by one’s peers. While the creators of the
CRC attempt to justify placing a majority of facul-
ty on the CRC by arguing that an alleged victim
would feel more ‘‘comfortable’’ speaking to fa-
culty members than fellow students, this fact
about the CRC completely ignores the rights of
the accused. The feelings of an alleged victim
should not outweigh an accused’s valid claim to a
hearing by his contemporaries.

Not only are the creation and composition of the
CRC unjustified, but the procedures of a CRC
hearing resemble that of a medieval ‘‘kangaroo
court’. First of all, while the accused in a CRC
hearing is given the right to an ‘‘advisor’’, that

advisor is not even allowed to speak on the floor
during the hearing. Perhaps most repulsive about
a CRC hearing, however, is the fact that the
accused (or his advisor) is not given the right to
directly cross-examine the accuser. This fact flies
in the face of every notion of equitable treatment
of a person accused of a wrongdoing. The chances
of a fraudulent claim being discovered without the
utilization of an adequate cross-examination are
slim at best, and as a result the potential for inno-
cent people being sanctioned for uncommitted ac-
tions is greatly increased. The possible emotional
stress a direct cross-examination may place on an
alleged victim certainly cannot outweigh the
dangerous possibility of sanctioning an innocent
individual. Moreover, the accused in a CRC pro-
ceeding may not appeal all of the sanctions that
the CRC can impose upon him, and even those
sanctions that may be appealed are done so to a
group entirely made up of faculty members—once
again violating the claim to a trial by one’s peers.

I certainly see a legitimate goal behind the crea-
tion of the CRC. However, the current status and
procedures of the CRC are a perfect example of
how the ends do not justify the (inequitable)
means,

Sincerely,

Bill Varian

W&L Law ’89

Just when was Washington’s birthday?

To the Editors:

Washington Holiday the week before Washing-
ton’s birthday? That makes sense. What was
George’s significance to this small liberal arts

school in Virginia anyway? Oh, I must have
forgot the most important thing: The holiday just
didn’t fit the administrative schedule. My
mistake. Maybe next year we should have

Thanksgiving Break in May.

Disgustedly,
Tony Mitchell ’89

Recycling Center needs community support

To the Editors:

It was a pleasure to read Lori Richardson’s arti-
cle on the newly launched recycling effort at
WAL in the Feb. 9 issue of The Ring-tum Phi. To
be successful, the Recycling Center needs the ac-
tive participation of the entire community, and the
publicity generated by the article is just the sort of
thing that is needed.

Maria Colvin, Scott Dittman and I have sent
memos to faculty and staff, asking for their sup-
port and explaining what can be recycled and
how. We hope students will contribute, as well

Ou. way to help is to save discarded computer
paper at the 10 computer centers on campus. A
brightly colored request to recycle will be posted
in each of these centers.

The comparatively high value of recycled com-
puter paper helps defray the cost of recycling
other items that bring little income but are a major
source of waste clogging dumps and landfills.
(Aluminum is another source of income.) The
Recycling Center is not-for-profit and aims to be
self- supporting.

One important point of information that was not

mentioned is that the Rockbridge Area Recycling
Coalition is the brainchild of Rebecca Johnson,
who is the president, the wife of Asst. Professor
of Law Lyman Johnson, and herself a lawyer. She
has worked tirelessly on this project for a year and
a half and deserves proper recognition for this
major accomplishment.

Sincerely,

Adrienne Hall Bodie,
Society and the Professions
Newcomb Hall

!

f

 

 

oe
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 23, 1989

 

PE credit debate
Is still in limbo

Decision may be made next fall

A A ERR i TEENIE
By Heather Midkiff
Staff Reporter

 

The proposal by the physical edu-
cation department to give only one-

fifths credit of the five part physical

education requirement for participa-
tion in an inter-collegiate sport has not
been approved yet.

According to Dean Elrod, ‘‘No ac-
tion will be taken on any long range

committee curriculum recommenda-
tion by the Courses and Degrees
Committee before next fall.’’

The proposal was one of several
submitted to Dean Elrod by the
physical education department. The
purpose of the proposals is for the

physical education department, as
well as other departments, to
reevaluate their department as part of
a long range study program.

Several students wrote a letter to
The Ring-tum Phi in response to a
previous article concerning the pro-

posal. This letter recommended an
alternative for the physical education
department: ‘*Allow 1/Sth a credit for

the first season of each varsity sport in
which the student-athlete participates.
(Each student would still need to ac-

‘Mozart

 

cumulate 5/Sths cr. hr.) ‘‘For each
subsequent season, in each sport, give

the student- athlete one credit hour of
graded participation, up to a total of
nine credits. (8 cr. hrs. + 5/5 cr. hr =
9 cr. hrs.)’’ In response to this pro-
posal, Athletic Director Bill McHenry
said, ‘‘I certainly agree with the
students; they should get adequate
credit for participation in sports.’’
McHenry said that the only difference
between the proposal of the students
and the proposal of the physical edu-
cation department is that the students

created a second part to their pro-
posal. McHenry said, ‘‘I am surprised
it (the proposal) has caused such a
furor since it would not affect current

students.’’ In regard to whether or not
he thinks the proposal made by the

physical education department would
affect either recruitment or student

participation in athletics, McHenry
said, ‘‘I can’t imagine coming to
school for only that reason. I don’t
think it will affect the turnout for
sports.’’ If the physical education
department is asked to reexamine the
proposal after the decision has been
made, McHenry said, ‘‘The physical
education department is certainly will-
ing to discuss any alternative pro-

posals.”’

 

 

‘

; *

we AP

Construction on the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts continues through the
winter months. The center will be opened for faculty use in August of 1990, and the offi-
cial opening celebration will take place in January of 1991.

A Be. eo .
*.™.« \
" .
eee ee Dest ae
ra " i Wd 2 coi”
sw a ee

 

Photo by: Chery! Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

 

One-way

 

 

 

(continued from page 1)

plan for restoring Lexington’s down-
town business district.

At the time, Phillips said, City
Council made only Main and Jeffer-
son streets one-way because one-way
traffic on Nelson and Washington
streets would have made traffic flow
too difficult.

‘The real problem was Washing-
ton Street, ’’ Phillips said. One-way
traffic on Washington would run too
much traffic through campus, unless
Lee Avenue was also made one-way,
he said.

Main and Jefferson streets were
made one-way when the city began
rebuilding all the downtown streets.
Phillips said City Council was look-
ing for a way to ease traffic flow and
permit more downtown parking.

While the streets were rebuilt, the
city installed storm sewers, under-
ground electric and phone wires,
brick sidewalks and new street lamps.
Street reconstruction was completed
in November 1976.

‘Nothing but praise for sororities’

By Courtney Payne
Staff Reporter

 

W&L’s new sororities have been a
success, say many of the new women
pledges.

Rush, which occurred Jan. 22-26,
gave W&L women a chance to get to
know each other, as well as the new
sororities. Chi Omega, Kappa Kappa
Gamma and Kappa Alpha Theta fin-
ished the week by pledging a total of
259 women.

‘IT had a really good time during
rush,’’ said freshman Karen
Haosell((check spelling)). ‘‘Especial-
ly meeting the older girls.”’

EAch sorority began with a chapter
consultant, who will remain at W&L

until June. New consultants are ex-
pected for next year.

Theta Consultant Lynda Fairman
had nothing but praise for W&L. “‘It’s
exciting to be at W&L,’’ she said.
“It’s a campus that welcomes change
and progress.

‘This is one of the best envir-
onments for Greeks I’ve ever seen,”’
she added.

“I’ve been really pleased by the
support and encouragement shown by
both the administration and the student
body,’’ said junior Theta pledge
Melissa Roberts.

University President John Wilson
has expressed interest in sorority ac-
tivities and is planning to attend some
colony meetings, according to Fair-
man.

to showcase W&L

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Roanoke lawyer Nick Leitch rehearses the role of Papageno for the
W&L/Fine Arts in Rockbridge Mozart concert this Saturday. Leitch
graduated from W&L in 1984, and the W&L Law School in 1987.

 

From Staff Reports
4

 

Barry Kolman, conductor and
music director of the Washington
and Lee University-Rockbridge
Symphony Orchestra, brings to the
Lexington community more than a
decade of conducting experience.

Kolman will be leading the or-
chestra, University Chorus and
soloists in an all-Mozart concert on
Saturday, Feb. 25, at 8 p.m. in Lee
Chapel

Prior to joining the W&L faculty
last fall, Kolman filled a one-year
position at James Madison Univer-
sity as director of orchestra ac-
tivities. In just one year under his
§ leadership, the JMU orchestra in-
creased in size and expanded its
repertoire to include new works as
well as traditional music.

Kolman also held the position of
music director and conductor of
the Bemidji Symphony: Orchestra
in northern Minnesota, While at
Bemidji, Kolman was instrumental
in initiating several new programs
including the formation of a com-

 

 

Director brings decade of experience to Lexington

munity symphony board, a Week-
end for High School Strings, a
guest artist series, a Kinder-
Concert series and a commission-
ing project.

The local newspaper in Bemidji
called the orchestra’s opening con-
cert in November 1986
‘timpressive...the sound was fuller
and the musical gestures were
more energetic than in previous
performances. Kolman’s zeal and
the dedication of his players has
paid off handsomely.’

A native of Brooklyn, N.Y.,
Kolman received a New York
STate Regents Scholarship to study
at the Crane School of Music at
Potsdam College, where he receiv-
ed his bachelor’s degree in music
education. He received his master
of music degree in clarinet perfor-
mance from Illinois State Univer-
sity and his doctorate, in conducting
from the University of Northern
Colorado, where he was awarded
the Graduate Dean’s Citation for
Excellence and a Colorado
graduate fellowship.

 

From Staff Reports

 

Soloists performing in the Feb. 25
all-Mozart concert at W&L bring a
variety of experiences and a multitude
of talent to the stage in Lee Chapel.

Timothy Gaylard, who will be the
guest pianist for Mozart’s ebullient
Piano Concerto No. 23, K. 488, has
performed extensively as soloist and
accompanist in the U.S. and Canada.
A native of Canada, Gaylard first ap-
peared as a soloist at the age of 17
when he performed with the Ottawa
Civic Symphony in Schumann’s Piano
Concerto,

As a young pianist, he won nu-
merous competitions, awards and
prizes as music festivals in Canada.
He has performed on radio and televi-
sion, and played a Chopin program
for TV Ontario in a series which is
still widely seen in Canada

Gaylard received his B.A. and B.
Mus. degrees from Carleton Univer-
sity where he won the Senate Medal
for Outstanding Academic Achieve-
ment, and his Ph.D. in musicology
from Columbia University. He also
studied piano at the Mozarteum ‘in
Salzburg. Austria, and has A.R.C.T.
diploma in both performance and

Kolman has played principal
clarinet with the Lehigh Valley
(Pa.) Chamber Orchestra, the
Bloomington-Normal (Ill.) Sym-
phony, the Greeley (Colo.)
Philharmonic and the Cheyenne
(Wyo.) Symphony Orchestra. He
has performed as a guest soloist
with the Peoria Municipal Band
and with the Crane Symphony Or
chestra and a concerto contest
winner.

Kolman studied conducting with
Eugene Corporan of the Cincinnati
College-Conservatory of Music
and has participated in conducting
master classes with Zubin Mehta
and Frederick Fennell. He also
studied clarinet with David Weber
(formerly of the New York City
Ballet), Karl Leister of the Berlin
Philharmonic Orchestra and Larry
Combs of the Chicago Symphony
Orchestra.

An active clinician, Kolman pes
forms as guest conductor
throughout the eastern
midwestern United States

and

pedagogy from the Royal Conser-
vatory of Music at the University of
Toronto. His teachers have included
Irene Woodburn Wright, Ross Pratt
and Winfried Wolf.

Since joining the W&L music facul-
ty in 1984, Gaylard has taught piano
and music history and performed as
soloist in recitals in Lee Chapel, R.E.
Lee Memorial Episcopal Church and
Mary Baldwin College, and as pianist
with the W&L Glee Club, University
Chorus, Rockbridge Chorus, R.E.
Lee Church Choir and the Henry
Street Theatre.

Gordon Spice, who will be singing
the part of Tamino in Mozart’s opera,
The Magic Flute, is familiar to Lex-
ington audiences. Currently chairman
of the music division at Washington
and Lee, Spice joined the music facul-
ty in 1973 where he has taught music
history and appreciation, voice
lessons, and been director of the Glee
Club and the University Chorus.

Spice received his B.A.B. degree
from Toledo University, his B.A. and
M.S. degrees from Ohio State Uni-
versity, and his Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina. Spice is a
member of the American Choral Di-
rectors Association, the National

The sororities have weekly meeting
in Dupont Hall and the University
Center. Eventual housing is planned,
and the sororities will get permanent
meeting places at the same time.

Social activities already have
begun. Kappa, Theta and Chi O all
have programs encouraging _ their
pledges to get to know each other.

“I’ve gotten to meet a lot of people
I didn’t know before,’’ said sopho-
more Tara Parkinson, a Chi O pledge.
‘‘Our pledge trip this spring will help,
too.”’

Kappa and Theta are planning
pledge trips as well.

Chi Omega and Theta have already
elected their first officers, although
Kappa will wait until May to do so.
Chi O’s president is Keri Heinrichs;

Theta’s is Bitsy Hopper.

Financial obligations are essentially
the same for the  sororities—all
pledges pay a one-time building fee of
$75, as well as membership dues of
$35 a month. Pledge and initiation
fees were also paid.

Dean Leroy C. Atkins, who is in
charge of fraternity affairs, said Chi O
and Theta each have 86 pledges, while
Kappa has 87.

Thirty-eight seniors pledged; 84
freshmen women did.

Fairman stated the goal of sororities
at W&L: ‘‘We’re not looking to only
provide social activities for the
women,”’ she said. ‘‘We want to meet
all their needs—to enhance their
whole college experience.”’

music talent

Association of Teachers of Singing
and is president of Intercollegiate
Men’s Choruses.

Catherine P. Gaylard will be sing-
ing the part of Pamina. She studied at
the Westchester Conservatory of
Music and received a B.A. degree in
music from Smith College. Gaylard
continued her vocal studies in New
York with Anna Hamlin and Fredrick
Martell. Gaylard has given recitals in
Lexington and Staunton, as well as in
Massachusetts, New York and
Canada.

Ruth W. Floyd, soprano, received
her bachelor of music from James
Madison University in 1979. As a
voice major, she studied with Sandra
Cryser and David Watkins at J.M.U.
and continued her musical studies
while serving as a graduate assistant
director for the Women’s Concert
Choir. While at J.M.U., Floyd per-
formed with the University Chorale,
the Women’s Concert Choir, the
Madison Singers and the Madiso-
nians.

Currently co-director of the Rock-
bridge Chorus, Floyd has performed
frequently as a soloist with the chorus
and symphony orchestra and at
several area churches. She is coor-

 

 

os
Bi
ie ate

Barry Kolman, director of the University-Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra, leads
a rehearsal of the orchestra, University Chorus, and soloists. The combined

ensembles will present an all-Mozart program this Saturday at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
SSRN aS re

   
    

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Soloists to sing in Mozart concert

dinator of academic computing at
W&L.

Powell M. Leitch III (‘‘Nick’’) is a
native of Covington; he received his
B.A. in English from W&L in 1984
and his J.D. from W&L in 1987. He
practices law in Roanoke with the firm
of Woods, Rogers, and hazlegrove.

While a student at W&L, Leitch
was a member of the Glee Club,
Southern Comfort and the Rockbridge
Community Orchestra. He has re-
cently performed as baritone soloist
with the Alleghany Highlands Chorale
and portrayed Bill Sikes in the Dabney
S. Lancaster Community College
Dinner Theatre production of Oliver.

Three Washington and Lee
Undergraduates will also be singing
solos in the opera.

Christopher L. Callas, a senior
from Morgantown, W.Va., is current-
ly president of the W&L Glee Club
and sings in the University Chorus
and Southern Comfort. He was a bass
soloist is the university’s Christmas
performance of Messiah.

Robby J. Aliff, a sophomore from
Oak Hill, W.Va., is a member of the
Glee Club, University Chorus and
Southern Comfort.

Cathleen M. Tiernan is a senior
from Winston-Salem, N.C., and has
been a soprano soloist with the Uni-
versity Chorus for four years. She
studies voice at W&L with Prof.
Thomas Forrest.

Margaret Brouwer, who serves as
concertmaster of the University-
Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra,
joined the W&L music faculty last
September. She has performed with
the Dallas Symphony, Dallas Ballet
Orchestra, Dallas Civic Opera Or-
chestra (as associate concertmaster),
Fort Worth Opera Orchestra (as asso-
ciate concertmaster) and the Fort
Worth Symphony and Chamber Or-
chestra. Brouwer also taught violin at
Elmhurst College in Illinois where she
was violinist in a faculty sonata duo.
She studied violin with Andor Toth,
Stuart Canin and Thadeus Wronski.

As a composer, Brouwer has won
several composition competitions and
has been guest composer at the Uni-
versity of New Mexico and Texas
Tech University. Her works have
been performed throughout the U.S.
and her orchestra work, ‘‘Third from
the Sun,’” was premiered recently by
the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra
and will be performed again March |
at Indiana University. Her chamber
piece, ‘‘Aurolucent Echoes,’’ was
released by Opus One Records in
June.

The concert is at 8 p.m. Saturday,
Feb. 25, and is jointly sponsored by
Washington and Lee and Fine Arts in
Rockbridge.
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, February 23, 1989

 

  

1987’s Lip Sync Contest with Margaret Pimblett, € ourtney Harpold and Elise Gaston

 

 

File Photo

Lip Sync to air again for MS and MTV

 

From Staff Reports

 

Participants in this year’s lip sync
contest at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity will be judged not only on their
ability to mouth the words to popular
songs, but also on creativity, originali-
ty, choreography, and costumes. A
tape of this year’s winner will be sent
to MTV for possible broadcast at a
later date.

The third annual lip sync contest
will be held at 8:30 p.m., Friday,
Feb. 24 in the GHQ Tavern on the

W&L campus. The entry fee is $3 per
individual; the cover charge is $3 per
person. All proceeds from the com-
petition will be contributed to the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society.
Last year the event raised more than
$800 for MS

The contest is open to all members
of the W&L community and represen-
tatives from the area’s women’s col-
leges. The only rules are that no sound
be emitted from the stage and no props
- except costumes -- are allowed.
Judges for the contest will be Gary
Humiston, technical director of the

 

ee

Vote Soon

The Voting Regulations Board
petitions for the Big Three elec-
tions (Executive Committee Presi-
dent, Vice-President, and
Secretary) can be picked up in
Carol Calkins’ office. They are
due in the E.C. office at 6:30 p.m.
on Monday, Feb. 27. The meeting
at that time is mandatory for all
candidates, Elections will be held
on Monday, March 6. Also, a Big
Three Candidate Assembly will be
held in Lee Chapel at 7 p.m. on
Feb. 28.

Biue Velvet

The W&L Film Society presents
the brilliant and controversial Blue
Velvet (USA, 1986), directed by
David Lynch.

Lynch has created one of the
most unsettling masterpieces in
film history. This infamous trip
through intrigue, mystery,

 

violence and general creepiness in
small town America takes us where
Alfred Hitchcock only dreamed of
going. The superlative cast—Kyle
McLachlan, Laura Dern, Isabella
Rossellini, Dean Stockwell and
Dennis Hopper (in a role that
makes his other characters look
like normal people)—and Lynch’s
idiosyncratic attention to detail
have resulted in a work that Woody
Allen called the best film of 1986.
Showings are at 8 p.m Friday
and Saturday, Feb. 24 and 25, in
Classroom A of Lewis Hall.

Climb House Mt.

Join the Outing Club and the
Rockbridge Area Conservation
Council for a climb of House
Mountain—in honor of the moun-
tain and as part of the Save House
Mountain campaign. Dress
warmly, for it can be very cold and

WA&L University Theatre, and Robert
deMaria, professor of journalism at
Washington and Lee.

Prizes include $100 for first place;
$50 and two Fancy Dress tickets for
second place; and $50 and one Fancy
Dress ticket for third. T-shirts will be
given to the first 30 participants to
sign up for the contest. Door prizes
donated by area merchants will be
awarded to spectators during breaks.

Anyone interested in participating
in the lip syne and air band contest
should register with Caro] Calkins in
the student center.

G e n e ral N otes windy at the top; wear sturdy shoes

and clothing in layers (no cotton
next to the skin). Bring along rain
protection, water, and a lunch.
Meet at the Outing Club office
(Baker 106) at 1 p.m. on Sunday,
Feb. 26. Our van will hold 11, so if
you have your own car, please br-
ing it along in case we need you to
drive.

Lampost Storage

Would those who have belong-
ings stored at the Lampost please
contact Jim Sloat (463-6000) to ar-
range for retrieval.

Bank Talk

The Career Development and
Placement Office presents
‘‘Investment Banking as a Ca-
reer,’ a talk by Trey Mamo, '84 of
Peers and Company. The program
will take place on Friday, Feb. 24,
at 3 p.m. in Room 109 of the Uni-
versity Center.

Students choose
ski, sun & home

 

By Holly Buffington
Staff Reporter

 

No matter whether they went home,
skiing, to Cancun or even stayed at
school, W&L students gave their
Washington Holiday a thumbs-up.

Vacationing students could be found
in almost every hot resort area.
Freshman Susan Watkins spent her
break ‘‘all over Cancun’’ with 11
other W&L students. She decided to
go to Cancun ‘‘to escape the cold and
snow and to be able to wear lighter
clothes.”’

According to Watkins, the group
wanted to get some culture so they
rented mopeds to the Mayan Temple
ruins only to find that the hurricane
had blown them down. Adventures
similar to this were a daily occurrence
on their trip.

Freshman Chris Haley spent his
vacation in Aspen, Colo., with two of
his pledge brothers. According to
Haley, ‘‘We could not have asked for
better weather, and the skiing condi-
tions were great.”’

Freshmen Tom Graw and Scott
Prigge spent their holiday taking a
tour of New England colleges. They
visited 12 states in all and stayed at

By Carli Flippen
Staff Reporter

The recent armored car robbery and
the subsequent resignation of two
Virginia Military Institute cadets has
brought attention to the honor code at
VMI, which shares several
characteristics with the honor system
of W&L.

The process for dismissal under the
VMI honor code is very similar to the
process used at W&L. If a cadet
suspects there has been an honor code
violation, he reports it to one of two
prosecutors or the president of the
Honor Court. The prosecutor then
begins an investigation of the case.
Col. Royce Jones, director of cadet af-
fairs, said that a majority of cases are
dropped at this stage. :

If the prosecutor feels there is
enough evidence to bring the cadet to

 

 

 

 

RESERVE OFFICERS’

TRAINING

 

oe ky

~ BELIEVE IT OR NOT. THIS GUY

CORPS

 

%

five different colleges, ‘‘living from
Burger King to Burger King.”’

According to Prigge, the weather
was a big disadvantage—‘‘It was too
cold,” he said, but the trip was worth
it and he plans to make a tour of the
Southern states on the next vacation.

Sophomore David Johnston vaca-
tioned in Tampa, Fla., with nine of his
fraternity brothers. Johnston said the
group spent time water skiing, and go-
ing to bars and other types of
nightclubs. He said one advantage of
vacationing in Florida was that he
could stay with friends who live there,
making the trip less expensive.

Members of both the basketball
team and the swim team remained in
Lexington for the majority of their
Washington Holiday. According to
senior David Dietz, the swim team
stayed at school until Wednesday for
morning practices.

On Wednesday the swim team
drove to Mary Washington College
for the Atlantic State Swimming
Championships. Dietz said the meet
went very well, with the men’s team
winning their meet and the women’s
placing third. Dietz also said, ‘‘We
had two girls and eight guys qualify
for NCAA championships so I guess it
was worth giving up break.’’

Is honor the same
for VMI Keydets?

trial, he writes the formal charges and
presents them to the accused cadet at a
pretrial hearing. At this hearing, the
accused is informed of the charges
against him. The cadet than has the
opportunity to explain his side of the
incident.

If the Honor Court finds that no
honor violation has been committed,
the case is dropped. If they are un-
sure, the cadet is asked to plead either
guilty or not guilty to the charges that
have been brought against him. If he
pleads guilty, the cadet leaves VMI; if
he pleads not guilty, he is brought to
trial.

Unlike the open hearings at W&L
the trials at VMI are closed to the pub-
lic. The cadet is altowed to find an at-
torney, fellow student or faculty
member to help iff his defense.

The VMI honor code extends off

campus as well.

Career

(continued from page 1)

lot more, and I think in the future that
will happen.

Heatley said he thought the recep-
tion was a success ‘‘as a pilot effort’’
but also thought the program could be
improved.

“The one consensus is,’’ said
Heatley, ‘‘that this kind of event
should be held in New York, not at the
beginning of the Washington Holiday,
but at the beginning of the Thanksgiv-
ing Holiday.’’

Heatley also said he thought alumni
response needed improvement. He
said next year he would try, among
other things, ‘‘to target ... five to ten
alumni in a given city and ask them to
make calls to at least five or ten others
... Getting the alumni to call some of
their friends, other alumni.”’

“It could well be, and this is just
hypothesis at this point, that next year
we would try the New York connec-
tions at the beginning of the

Thanksgiving Holiday and we would
try the Atlanta connections at the
beginning of the Washington Holi-
day,’’ said Heatley.

 

 

”

 

Robertson

(continued from page 2)

short, SAC of 1985 rightly upheld that
academic integrity resides in teaching
values rather than fraternal restric-
tions. Today, however, SAC
predominately seeks academic integ-
rity through regulation of the traterni-
ty system instead of lauding the vir-
tues of academic accomplishment.
Anti-fraternity forces argue that
fraternities impose a large, unproduc-
tive and unnecessary time demand on
students. Fraternity involvement
forces its members to sacrifice their
devotion to academics. Anti-fraternity
beliefs compel SAC to mandate that
each fraternity appoints a
‘*Scholarship Chairman.’’ The
responsibilities of a Scholarship
Chairman is to provide a list of the
following: (1) all initiates and their
majors; (2) all members and pledges
at the end of each term; and (3) all
persons to be initiated. The office of
Scholarship Chairman is a sly inven-
tion. Anti-fraternity forces use this of-
fice to masquerade a stealthy inten-
tion. On the surface, the anti- fraterni-
ty forces say scholarship chairmen
will imbue academics as a fraternal
priority. Underhandedly, however,
anti-fraternity forces use the office as
a tool to gather data in their persistent
attempt to correlate fraternity in-
volvement and academic
underachievement. Unfortunately for
all, anti-fraternity forces have confus-
ed correlation with causation.
Regulation of the fraternity system
diminishes the value of this Univer-
sity’s diploma in two ways. Namely,
regulation denies fraternity members
the opportunity to practice two key
management skills: (1) problem solv-
ing and (2) planning. Fraternities are a
management proving ground. Frater-
nity members need concrete practice
sharpening their management skills.
Taking these management skills out of
the hands of fraternity members tapers
their management experience and,
thus, it diminishes their effectiveness
as managers in the real world. In
short, graduating less effective
managers devalues W&L’s diploma.
Academic integrity resides in values
instead of fraternity restrictions. Pass-
ing regulatory restrictions fails
because new laws cannot weed out
bad values entirely. Gentlemen and
ladies of the W&L community are
trustworthy because General Lee es-
tablished an honor system which ex-
pected trustworthiness from them. In
Dr, Taylor’s speech “‘The*Day of
General Lee’s Return to Lexington,”’
he speculates that General Lee would
have asked, ‘‘W&L obviously has an
atmosphere of trust, but does it have
an atmosphere of respect?’’ In Lee’s
words, the W&L community has ne-
glected the integrity of principle over
the years. It seems to me that integrity
has diminisned because the ad-
ministration fails to make it a daily
expectation of the fraternity system.
To remedy the situation, the ad-
ministration needs to challenge the
fraternity system to handle their own
problems responsibly. Using a
“*stick’’ to coerce responsible
behavior is doomed to fail. Alter-
natively, a ‘‘carrot’’ may motivate
responsible behavior in the fraternity
system. The ‘‘carrot’’ resides in Gen-
eral Lee’s concept of honor: ‘‘All
students are to conduct themselves
like gentlemen.’’ The fraternity
system desperately needs the ad-
ministration to expect integrity from
them. Expectancy theory substantiates
that institutions get what they expect
in most situations. Tradition shows
that W&L students respond favorably
when nurtured by positive expecta-
tions. General Lee states, ‘‘You
cannot force men to do their duty.”’
Similarly, the administration needs to
expect the fraternity system to do its
duty. In sum, values rather than
regulations make academic and
fraternity life compatible.

Save On Your Rental

And Go To Fancy Dress On Us!
In Honour Of
Fancy Dress 1989

IS IN CLASS.

Excitement and adventure is the course descrip-
tion, and Army ROTC is the name. It's the one col-
lege elective that builds your self-confidence,
develops your leadership potential and helps you
take on the challenges of command.

There's noobligation until your junior year, and that
means there's no reason not to try it out right now.

reAOSR SH
e
ao

ARMY ROTC

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE

COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.
Register Now! Drop by or contact Capt. Ramos 463-8485

College Town Shop

Invites You To Order Your Rentals
At Discount Prices Or
Purchase A Complete Outfit For $245

(includes shirt. tie and cumberbund)

Formal Attire R.S.V.P. 111 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

 

as =

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 23, 1989

 

 

Swimming teams capture championships

Women take 2nd ODAC crown

 

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

 

For the Washington and Lee
women’s swim team, the theme of this
year’s season was ‘‘Back-to Back.”’
This referred to the goal of winning a
second consecutive Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship.
Head Coach Page Remillard was not
overly worried about repeating and
predicted a winning performance.

“*Back-to-Back’’ was, in fact, a
very strong probability. So the fact
that the Generals did capture their
second ODAC title was not the most
phenomenal aspect of this year’s com-
petition. It is the way in which the
women won that warrants the most at-
tention and surpasses the aspirations
of any swim team in the division.

The accomplishments were nothing
short of miraculous, and Remillard
admitted that he often called upon a
higher power but did not expect such
results. The team broke 14 school
records, won every ODAC event and
was the only team to produce
qualifiers for the NCAA Division II
National Championships. And there’s
more: Every W&L swimmer finished
with personal-best times, everyone
scored and W&L boasted the ODAC’s
““MO8t Odtaetandinsg
Swimmer’’—senior Elizabeth

Miles—who also received the honor
last year. The final score was 601, a
point total which left Sweet Briar, the
second-place team, 147 points behind.

    

si
y habia
a

the i
i

mics

‘The performance was a result of
commitment, confidence and execu-
tion,”’ said Remillard. ‘‘We also had
outstanding senior and freshman
leadership. The captains [Miles and
senior Nancy Whalen] deserve special
credit for promoting team unity.’’

Remillard also commented on the
particularly impressive individual
facts. ‘‘[Freshman}] Louise Adamson
entered the 500-yard freestyle with a
time of 7:22.43 and came out of the
preliminaries with 6:40.05. [Sopho-
more] Kris Amoroso came within one-
tenth of a second of breaking the
school record in the 100-yard
backstroke—the only record not
broken this year. And, of course,
Elizabeth Miles and [sopho-
more]Sharon Coleman qualified for
the Nationals.’’

Coleman qualified in the 200-year
butterfly with a time of 2:13.78, and
Miles qualified in the 200, 500, and
1650 freestyle events. Miles’ time in
the 1650 was 17:58.48, her best
overall performance.

“If there is a swimmer in the
ODAC better than Elizabeth, she
wasn’t at that meet,’’ Remillard said.
“*And all the ODAC swimmers were
there.”’

Remillard is more than satisfied
with the two ODAC championship
titles and the amazing occurrences of
this year’s competition. What’s the
team’s new slogan, now that the
**Back- to-Back’’ challenge has been
met? ‘‘Next year we’re going for a
hat-trick,”’ he said.

' to. successfully return

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The men’s swim team captured its second straight Atlantic State’s

Championship.

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Men grab Atlantic States title

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

  

For the Washington and Lee men’s
swim team, last weekend's Atlantic
States Conference Championships
was the meet of season. The Generals
were shaved, geared up and ready to
bring home a second consecutive con
ference crown as well as qualify
swimmers and relay teams for the
NCAA Division III National Cham
pionships. Times to turn up the per-
formance level a notch, eh?

*“We swam awesome,”
David Dietz, displaying a knack for
understatement. Awesome isn’t the
word. Try unbelievable, incredible or
fantazmagorable. Yes, the Generals
were that good.

W&L had every swimmer post a
personal best time in one of his events
en route to swimming away with its
second straight ASC title. The Gen-
erals outpointed their nearest rival
UNC-Charlotte by 125.5 points, set-
ting four school records and qualify-
ing eight swimmers in 24 events for
Nationals.

““You always expect to swim well,’’
said Dietz, ‘‘But it’s rare when every-
one swims so well.”’

Some of the highlights were when
senior David Reavy broke his own
school record in the 200-yard freestyle
and junior Shawn Copeland bettered
his W&L standard in the 100 breast,
breaking the one-minute barrier for

Redfoot qualifies for Nationals

 

By Mike Shady

| Sports Editor

 

Most people would find it difficult
to some
endeavor requiring skill, timing and

| reflexes after taking over a year off

from it. Then again, most people are
probably not at all like Washington
and Lee senior wrestler Rich Redfoot.

After not wrestling his junior year
for the Generals grapplers because of
self-proclaimed ‘‘burnout,’’ Redfoot
sparkled in last weekend’s NCAA
Division II] Eastern Regional Cham-
pionships. Entering the competition as

Basketball drops three in a row
Sophomore Jacobs named ODAC Player-of-the-Year

 

By Jay Plotkin
' Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee basketball
team closed out its 1988- 89 regular
season on the road, and the treatment
the team received made it long for the
friendly confines of home.

The four-game road trip started for
the Generals down the road at
Roanoke. Earlier this season, W&L
beat the Maroons 102- 86 after trailing
47-42 at the half in the Warner
Center. This time, the Generals took
control early and held on to get their
first win in Roanoke in 31 years.

W&L never let Roanoke get un-
tracked, holding the Maroons to just
35 percent shooting in the first half
while cruising to a 41-27 lead. One of
the keys going into the game for the
Generals was to contain Roanoke
guard Pat Muldowney, who scored 22
points in the first game between the
schools. A_ stingy defense held
Muldowney to just eight points on
three of 14 shooting. The Generals
also needed a big game from their
leading scorer, sophomore center
Chris Jacobs, and he came through
with a 25 point, 12 rebound perfor-
mance.

The Generals rode the play of their
inside men, Jacobs and sophomore
forward Scott Alrutz, to earn the 78-
67 win. Alrutz scored a career-high 14
points, and classmate Jim Casey, a
5’10’’ guard, added a season-high 13.

The next stop for the Generals was
Eastern Mennonite, where W&L fin-
ished up its Old Dominion Athletic
Conference schedule. Last time, the
Generals beat the Royals 77-64 in
Lexington. This time, the Royals
stuck close to the Generals largely due
to their dominance on the glass. EMC
outrebounded W&L 45-31, led by
Tim Cressman’s 15 rebounds. The
Generals were also hurt by a poor

shooting night from the starting
backcourt of sophomore Mike Holton
and senior captain Lee Brading. The
duo combined for just 11 points on
five of 23 shooting.

Jacobs kept the Generals in the
game, scoring 25 points and clearing
11 boards. Still, EMC led by two with
just under two minutes left. Brading
tied the game for W&L at 65, but
Gary Chupp hit a running one-hander
at the buzzer to give Eastern Men-
nonite a 67-65 upset win.

Said Generals head coach Verne
Canfield, ‘‘Against Eastern Men-
nonite, we just totally didn’t respect
our opponent. That is inexcusable,
and hopefully the young men learned a
lesson from that.’’

WA&L then flew to Boston for games
with Tufts and Amherst. While the
stay in Boston was nice, the weather
was cold, and so was the welcome the
Generals received from their hosts.

WA&L stayed with Tufts for most of
the game. It was tied at 32 at halftime.
But Tufts used its inside strength to
control the boards, claiming a 45-31
edge. Towards the end of the game,
Tufts pulled away from the foul line,
making 18 of 34 for the game. The
Generals attempted only nine free
throws, making only two.

The discrepancy from the foul line
proved to be the difference, and Tufts
handed the Generals their second
straight defeat, 76-71, despite a ca-
reer-high 29 points from Jacobs.
Brading also added a career-high 10
assists.

Said Canfield, ‘‘We should have
won the Tufts game, but we didn’t ex-
ecute very well. The officiating was
unusual, but you have to expect that
on the road, and that’s not an excuse.
We didn’t play well enough to win and
we still could have won.”’

The road swing concluded with a
stop at Amherst. The Generals never
got it going offensively, shooting just

NOTICE
Applications are now being considered for a possible opening in the Admissions Office for
the 1989-90 academic year.
Any graduating student interested in being considered for the position of Admissions

32 percent for the game, and Amherst
was able to keep Jacobs in check,
limiting the 6’6’’ center to just 10
points. Brading led the Generals with
15 points, while sophomore Pat
Gallavan and freshman John Wither-
ington added eight each, as Amherst
handed the Generals an 84-67 loss.

‘‘Amherst was a good basketball
team,”’’ said Canfield. ‘‘They have
basketball players that are very fine
Division Ill players, players that most
Division III schools don’t get.””

The loss left the Generals 19-6 on
the season, 10-2 in the conference.
The Generals will next take the court
tonight for Roanoke/W&L III in the
semifinal round of the ODAC tour-
nament at 6:30 in the Salem Civic
Center. The fifth-place Maroons
defeated Bridgewater on Tuesday
night to gain another shot at the Gen-
erals. Emory and Henry and Hamp-
den-Sydney play in the other semifinal
game at 8:30 p.m., with the winners
advancing to the championship round
slated for Saturday at 3 p.m. If the
Generals should win the ODAC tour-
nament, they would receive an
automatic bid to the NCAA Division
Ill championship.

‘‘We know what it takes to beat
Roanoke,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘It all
depends on the mental frame of mind
of our players. It is simply a matter of
who wants the game more.”’

Several Generals were honored as
the ODAC coaches voted on the all
conference teams. Canfield was nam-
ed Coach-of-the-Year for the third
time, taking a team picked to finish
fifth in the preseason all the way to the
conference regular season title.
Holton was named to the second team
all conference and second team All
South Atlantic Region. Jacobs was
voted to the first team and became the
first sophomore in league history to be
voted Player-of-the- Year. He was also
named to the first team all- South
Atlantic.

Counselor - the position currently held by Timothy G. McMahon - should submit a letter of
application to the Personnel Office by March 6, 1989. A personal interview will be scheduled

for finalists in mid-March.

 

the No. 2 seed in the 190-pound
weight class with a sterling 18-1-1
record, Redfoot earned a berth in the
NCAA Division III National Cham-
pionships by advancing to the final
round.

And he almost grabbed the title at
190 pounds as well. Redfoot, who
advanced to the final with a pin in the
last minute of his semifinal match,
took 1988 Division Ill All-American
Mike Fusilli from Ithaca into overtime
in the final match.

Redfoot, who qualified for the
national meet his sophomore year,
raced out to an early 5-0 lead and
almost had his opponent pinned. But

| y eo
iKiee

S ee
Q+*,°0 =
|, ASS
i = Ea
. ee
o' = ‘.
*
i 4.2.
i?
j
4 V4 jj
7
WES rata.
As ‘
SSS
SSS
S
eleé @la-c

Fusilli hung tough, fighting back to tie
the score at 5-5 at the end of regula-
tion. Still deadlocked at the conclusion
of the one-minute overtime period,

Fusilli won the title on the basis of

more riding time.

Redfoot will compete at the national
tournament on March 3-4 at John Car-
roll University in University Heights,
Ohio, outside of Cleveland.

W&L also was well represented at
the regional meet by senior 177-
pounder Manoli Loupassi, who fin-
ished 2-2 in the tournament, and

sophomore 126-pounder Larry
Pilkey, who finished 1-2 in the
tourney.
a € ts,
é
Pi
4 + s&s
e
ege @i-e
ss 2 e 2

said senior

the first time in his career. W&L also
qualified all of its relay teams,
something Dietz predicts could prove
to be important.

“We qualified all our relays for
Nationals—the first time in my four
years here that we have done that,”’ he
said. ‘That will definitely score us
some big points at Nationals, because
every relay team has the potential to
score in the Top Eight.”’

Dietz, Reavy, Copeland, senior Jeff
Bercaw, junior David Olson, sopho-
more Jim Dunlevy and freshmen Jay
Smith and Chip Nordhoff were the
qualifiers for the national meet

‘When every single swimmer turns

in a lifetime best, it’s the kind of meet -

you only dream about,’’ said head
coach Page Remillard. ‘‘But that’s the
kind of meet we had. Even more im-
portant than that, though, was the fact
that we had a lot of fun, too.”’

The national qualifiers now will
continue their training for the national
championships. The men’s champion-
ships will be held March 16-18 at
Bowdoin College in Brunswick,
Maine, and the women’s champion-
ships will be held a week earlier,
March 9-11, at the University of
Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind.

The Generals, who finished | 1th in *

the nation last year, will look to im-
prove on that past performance and
crack the Top Eight this season. A
Top Eight finish would be the highest
for a men’s swim team in W&L
history.

 

 

 

 

Rich Redfoot

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

%
\
'
<a 8 4
o
| |
e
© .
°
6
| SS
/p
1/
1}
v
ae
. ~@4 %

PRP MBM LEO DH

OO a a Me
ai
= AD PAGE The Ring tum Pi February 2,198 G

mire eee '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: Memorable Dining in Gracious
en Jills Accommodations With Superb Service W& W kl C | d
Y ire L Weekly Calendar
: . tt A te Full Menu Including Lobster Tails, ee
E Eile EllEE ' es
Vase aks celleelieelice| Lamb, Veal, Italian And February 24 to March 7
Pete tre Etel Cajun Dishes |
. 2 ERLDAY, FEBRUARY 24
Ri for Spring Term ends.
. DO U G T U Rn oI E LL 8 7 OR Featuring Raw Bar with Clams gg SE eC costesh seamen tenes tee
ee une Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp Try Mane WAL 'B4, Peers & Co., New York, Room 109, University Center. Public
1 it i | invi
2 = 3 MEN'S TENNIS: Generals v si C
VAR Stauntcn, Va Serving Dinner Nightly 5 pm to Close 7:30 pm POLITICS FLMPEST Se senslarten Connaek. tam 203, Reid Hall
885-3409 Reservations suggested 8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Blue Velver (USA, 1986). Classroom “A,” Lewis Hall
= 8:30 p.m THIRD ANNUAL LIP-SYNC CONTEST: To Benefit Multiple Sclerosis. General
Headquarters. Public invited.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25
Sageary All Day INDOOR TRACK: ODAC Tournament. V.M.L. Field House.
2019 Forest Ave. Office: 261-2112 7 1:30 p.m OPERA BROADCAST: /domeneo (Mozart) WLR 1 5),
: 7:30 p.m POLITICS FILMFEST: The Manchurian Candidate. 203, Reid Hall
Buena Vista Home: 463-1952 8 oa FILM SOCIETY: Blue Velvet (USA 1986). Classroom "A," Lewis Hall.
8 p.m CONCERT: All-Mozart Program: University-Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra and University
Chorus; Timothy Gaylard, piano soloist. Lee Chapel. Public invited.
a“ ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: ODAC Championship Game. Salem Civic |
2 ter
‘ Country Ritchen ton LIBERTY HALL VOLUNTEERS: Sunday Drill. Lee Chapel |
For all of your automotive needs, sii ge |
4.0 FASHIONED BAKERY MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27 |
EAT IN OR TARE OUT 7:30 p.m CONTACT LECTURE: Hosea Williams, Anta City Councilman and Civil Rights Leader
see me at COURTESY FORD : Las Chose, Eoeigtin to tole ts W0A. Adena ness, Pele faved : K
; ; PAUL CAM TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28
MERCU RY in Buena Vista. PELL 8 NORTH Main Street 7 p.m GALLERY RECEPTION AND LECTURE: “Paper Works” exhibit by Betsy Tyler Bell }

ee ee ee op aon LEnmeton. VA 24480 Preceded by poco perma pee with ue mas pvfored by sade

composition seminar group and two dancers. DuPont Gallery. Public invited
7:30 pm LECTURE: "Malaysia: Life in a Tri-Racial Society,” Lyn Wheeler, head, W&L accounting
dept., and Carol Wheeler. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited |

 

 

 

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: MEN'S TENNIS: James Madison University. :

VARNER & POLE Furniture Dealers 4

Just DownTheRoad. PEAY yy sen co }

AnotherProminent Institute ea iapbacuse cabeza: woe) A a ee Re
> 4 * THURSDAY, MARCH 2

For Higher Learning, cn snc sre ce eae re ner ee et ae

 

 

Public invited.
5 p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Susan Bienart ‘90 and Sarah T. Allen 90. Room 401, Howe Hall

 

    

 

 

s Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.
aucliotronics 8 p.m. OPEN MICROPHONE NIGHT. Roger Day will sing, then tum over microphone to anyone j
VIRGINIA'S STEREO SPECIALIST AWAY AHL STIG EVENT: WOMENS TENNIS: V.CU. fooagh Mach 3).
YAMAHA ALPINE
DENON BOSTON
a0 CWO ERIDAY, MARCH.3
KEF SONANCE 9:00 p.m. FANCY DRESS BALL: Warmer Center.
SIGNET B&K
SATURDAY, MARCH 4
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI 1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: La Boheme (Puccini). WLUR-FM (91.5). j
8 p.m. CONCERT: Roanoke College Choir will present pre-tour concert of sacred music. R.E. Lee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

Memorial Episcopal Church. Public invited. !
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN '

ae in central Virginia’ best midweek sking values. - CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT MONDAY, MARCH §

tickets are only $18, for instance. Coupon books with eight tickets - IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER Ly ee eee ee

= pio, A . oo oe >, - WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS 7:30 p.m. ECONOMICS LECTURE: "The Making of Monetary Policy,” Robert P. Bi president,
just $88. And our midweek lodging packages start at $38. For free . TRADE-INS ACCEPTED Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Le Chapel. Public invited.
brochures call 703-289-9441.

TUESDAY, MARCH 7
3 p.m. BASEBALL: Generals vs. Mary Washington. Smith Field.

‘ 800) 468-6667 | ; AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN'S TENNIS: Virgiaia Tech.
Ski Massanut fen es

GRAND PAVILION MALL SOSH ESHEETS HEE EEE EES EEE EEE EE SEHHE HEHEHE HE SHEH EEE HEHEHE

10MilesEast Of Harrisonburg,Virginia,On Route 33, Across from Tanglewood DEAVERS ALLEY BUSINESS SERVICES

Booklet can only be used by one person — non-transferable 4235 Electric Road - Roanoke Lentnacen. Vieglate faaes 3 EXHIBITIONS

463-9455 of 463-5119 é
MOOSE LOLOL EOL OES r DUPONT GALLERY: “Paper Works” by Betsy Tyler Bell, visiting artist from Oxford (opens Feb. 27). Gallery
hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Admission is free.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: “Enemies of Books” (through February).

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: “George Washington: A Window on His Library”
(through May). Hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, LOWER LEVEL ONE LOBBY: “Mark Catesby's The Natural History of '
Carolina, Florida, and the Bahama Islands, 1731 - 1743; A Facsimile Edition from W&L's Special |

 

Collections.”

SOSH ESET SHEESH HEHEHE EEE SSE HEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE EEE HEHEHE

 

 

REACH
FOR THE POWER.

 

 

TEACH.

No other profession has this power. The power to wake up
young minds. The power to wake up the world. Teachers have
that power. Reach for it. Teach. For information call

1-800-45-TEACH.

Recruiting Young Teachers, Inc. ’

 

 

 

FOR SALE-——_———
ELAN SKIS Length: 190 Blue ;
and Tyrolia Bindings 280D

Never Used Purchased in Europe
Price Negotiable Call Dave 463-1836 .

 

 

  
  

THE

101 W. Nelson St.

Welcomes You To
Fancy Dress

Weekend
Drop by and see us!

  

   
    
   
   
 
 
  

With Automatic Approval, it's easier to qualify while you're still in school.

Now getting the Card is easier than ever. For the Become a rs,
very fist ie, students can apply for the American Fly Northwest $99 roundtrip. —
Express® Card over the phone. Asa student Cardmember you will be able to enjoy
Simply call 1-800-942-AMEX. We'll take your appli- an extraordinary travel privilege: fly twice for only
cation by phone and begin to process it right away. $99 roundtrip to any of the more than 180 Northwest
ow It couldn't be easier. Airlines cities in the 48 contiguous United States :
NORTHWEST What's more, because you attend (only one ticket may be used per six-month period):
this school full time, vou can also take And, of course, you'll also enjoy all the other excep-
AIRLI N ES advantage of the Automatic Approval tional benefits and personal service you would expect
LOOK TOUS Offer for students. With this offer, youcan —_from American Express. .

 

 

CHECK OUT OUR

     

get the American Express Card right now— Apply now by
without a full-time job or a credit history. But if you calling 1-800-942- fi FACILI
have a credit history, it must be unblemished. AMEX. And then pie A TIES i
It'sactually easier for you to qualify fortheCardnow, you can really go gies
while you're still a student, than it ever will be again. places—for less. 1 PARTY SHIRTS, *\
Ay TEAM’SHIRTS, ETC.
}

Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX

nt Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 Jravel vouchers in the mail

BIG DOG
GRAPHICS

463-2618

           
 

=

i

*Some restrictions may apply For complete offer details, call 1-800-942 AMEN. Current stude

Pl as

© 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc
n Amencan Express company

Be

 

 

 

 
