4

VOLUME 88, NO. 5

Che Ki

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSIT)
LEXINGTON, VA. 24480 _-

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

OCT 1 7 1988

niy-

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

um Phi

OCTOBER 13, 1988

 

elf study underway for re-accredidation

By Caly Smith
Staff Reporter

 

Self study committees, consisting of
faculty and students, are in the process
of ensuring re-accreditation of Wash-
ington and Lee University as outlined
in the Criteria Manual of the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools
(SACS).

To be accredited, the university
must be evaluated every 10 years by a
visiting team. This year, instead of do-

ing a traditional self study, W&L is
conducting a long-range plan for the
future of the university.

According to Dean John Elrod,
‘‘Every department is involved in
planning for the future of this univer-
sity. The final strategy adopted should
last out through the end of this cen-
tury, covering a little more than 10
years.”

Dean Elrod said the faculty and stu-
dents are essentially responsible for
the planning. He said, ‘The strength
of this undertaking is not the president

and his administrators devising the
plan, but rather all of the faculty and a
number of students. The plan will be
as good as the imagination, time,
energy and hard thinking the faculty
and students give to it.”’

Specific plans for the next 10 years
are being developed in the following
areas: 1) Quality of faculty, 2) Quality
of student body (Admissions), 3)
Academic programs, 4) Campus life
and student services, 5) Freshman
year. 6) Institutional effectiveness, 7)

Administrative services, 8) The Law

School, 9) Physical facilities. The re-
ports by the faculty and students will
be given to the Long Range Planning
Steering Committee by March 30,
1989. The committee will evaluate the
area reports in April and May, and
then combine them into an institu-
tional report.

According to Dean Elrod, the report
will be reviewed and/or modified by
the Board of Trustees, turned in to the
SACS for W&L’s re-accreditation re-

-CRC debate: No finalized plans made

‘

 

By Stacy L. Morrison
Staff Reporter

Concerns about the circumstances
surrounding the formation of the Con-
fidential Review Committee, such as
the loss of student power and the need
for a body to hear sensitive cases,
were discussed last night in Lee
Chapel at the CRC forum.

Currently, the CRC has jurisdiction
over cases that involve sexual harass-
ment, racial, religious or sexual slurs
and cases of ‘‘unwanted sexual touch-
ing.’ The CRC was voted into exis-
tence by the faculty last Spring after
an hoc review committee ascertained
that there was a need for a body to
deal with cases requiring heightened
sensitivity and confidentiality.

The forum this week was to be an
informational session followed by a
question and answer period. ‘‘We
want your opinions about possible so-
lutions,’’ said EC President Christo-
pher deMovellan in his opening com-
ments.

‘‘We have some definite needs in
the student body that must be met, but
we also have a desire for self-
governance. We cannot sacrifice the
needs, for self-government,”’ said
deMovelian before opening the floor
for discussion.

No action was taken at the forum,
but points of concern were discussed
between the faculty, students and rep-
resentatives of the SCC, the EC and
the CRC.

The primary reason for the forma-
tion of the CRC is a need on the cam-

EC clarifies policies

By Stacy L. Morrison
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee voted
at Monday night’s meeting to add a
statement to its plagiarism pamphlet
that clarifies a student's position when
working under a professor’s direc-
tives.

This action is in response to Journal-
ism Professor Hampden H. Smith’s
request for such a statement at an EC
meeting two weeks ago.

The statement will read, ‘‘For ex-
ample, where a student follows his or
her professor’s instructions on an as-
signment, the Honor System recog-
nizes that this pamphlet does not ap-
ply.”’

The revision will go under Section
E, ‘‘Specialized Assignments,’’ of the
plagiarism pamphlet, and will go into
effect immediately. The new state-
ment will go into the pamphlet at next
year’s printing.

EC Member Dave Nave drafted the
statement, and the EC voted 10-1-0
for the revision.

In other business, the EC received a
letter requesting that the EC look into
discontinuing the common practice of
posting bills on the colonnade because
they ‘‘deface’’ the colonnade. EC
President Christopher deMovellan
said, ‘‘Things need to be put up there
in an orderly fashion.’” EC Member
Mark Cobb will look into this matter
and report back to the EC next week.

Freshman class officer elections
will be held Monday. The EC
received 32 petitions from freshmen
interested in running for EC rep-
resentative, president and vice presi-
dent.

Nineteen students submitted peti-
tions for the freshman EC rep-
resentative position. The candidates
are: David S. Bohigian, Bryan Byrd,
Christopher Doherty, Mike Gray,
Karen Halsell, Gregory Hicks, Clay-
ton A. Kennington, Brant Martin,
Frank Martien, Paul M. Mazyck,
Trént Merchant, Mason L. Petit, Fred
Renneker, Clay Thomas, William
Edwin Thomas Jr., Jamie Tucker,
Elizabeth Vallotton, Kim Wolf and
Monica L. Young.

The seven candidates for freshman
class president are: Evan Balmer, Ted
Eades, Scott Goodman, Willie L
Henderson Jr., Will Jones, Brad Mar-
tin and Blaire Postman

Five freshmen are vying for the vice

pus for a committee to hear sensitive

issues concerning sexual and ethnic
harassment and violation. Last year
there were 14 such cases that did not
go before the SCC. Associate Dean of
Students Anne C. Schroer-Lamont
said that victims she dealt with last
year said they would not feel comfor-
table going to the SCC. Schroer-
Lamont spoke with three of these vic-
tims this year, who said they would
have taken their case to the CRC as
the committee exists now.

Several suggestions have been
fielded for alternate committees to the
CRC. The EC plans to submit a pro-
posal to the faculty for a committee
composed of two faculty members,
three SCC members and two students-
at-large. The SCC wants to form a
sub-committee of their committee to
handle sensitive cases. Another option
that has been discussed is to change
the ratio @f faculty-students of the
CRC from four-three to three-four.

The SCC has definite plans to add a
confidentiality clause to its guidelines,
said Burns, who suggested that the
size of the SCC, thirteen members,
can be seen as a negative when con-
sidering confidentiality.

Schroer-Lamont is not sure that an
SCC sub-committee would solve any
problems. ‘‘All of us are aware that
we have a problem of homophobia on
this campus. It is intimidating for a
gay, or a lesbian, to bring a case like
this before his peers,’’ Schroer-
Lamont said.

The SCC is composed of very visi-
ble students on campus. The president
and vice-president of each class serve

presidential position: Fred Elliott,
John Flippen, Lance Merryweather,
David Phillips and Gene Pridi.

Each of the candidates was required
to make a one-minute speech at Lee
Chapel Wednesday afternoon. Run-
off elections will be held the Thursday
following primary elections.

In EC budget news, two campus or-
ganizations presented their budget
requests at Monday night’s EC meet-
ing. The soccer club, a new organiza-
tion, requested $2,243 to go toward
the purchase of equipment and uni-
forms.

Sophomore Michael Danzansky,
vice president-treasurer of the club,
said that if uniforms were removed
from the budget, the amount of money
needed would drop to $763. The EC
awarded $500 to the club.

Mock Convention Co-Chairman
John Symonds requested $2,000 for
Mock Convention this year. The EC
asked to see a statement of the Mock
Convention’s bank account standing at
the end of last year before making a
decision. Symonds will report back to
the EC next Monday night.

President deMovellan will meet
with the Board of Trustees on the
weekend of Oct. 21. DeMovellan will
ask the board for vans for the new
Live Drive program. Any other sug-
gestions for requests should go to de-
Movellan or another EC member,
deMovellan said.

All members of the EC were present
and on time. The meeting lasted 35
minutes.

In the executive session following
the meeting, the EC appointed the fol-
lowing students to faculty subcommit-
tees:

Athletic Committee: John Carberry,
Vanessa Hartman and Kenon White-
hall.

Calendar
John Pace.

Courses and Degrees Committee:
Tom Reems and Chris Smith.

Faculty Executive Committee:
Chris Pierpan.

Financial Aid Committee: Tim Hal-
loran and Matt Murphy.

Freshman Admissions Committee:
J.R. Smith and Charles Ameno.

Library Advisory Committee: Allen
Hinkle, Matt Murphy and John Nes
lage

Student Health Committee: D. Al-
len Brown, Kathy Kreutziger and
Heather Logan

Scheduling committee:

on the SCC. Junior Jill Westphal said
that discussing something ‘‘so serious-
ly personal’ to the SCC and then see-
ing that person in class could be un-
nerving. Westphal said, ‘‘Even
though you can change the formation
of the SCC, I don’t think you can

change the[student’s] perception of

the SCC.”’

Many students do not want to see
the power taken away from the SCC
because they see that move as a break-
down of the student-run campus. So-
ciology Professor David R. Novack,
who served on the ad hoc review
committee, said ‘‘Our primary con-
cern [on the ad hoc review committee]
was not the issue of self-
government.’’ Novack said they wan-
ted to help those students who did not
have confidence in a student commit-
tee.

Law Professor Lyman P. Q. John-
son, who served on the hoc review

committee said he is ‘‘troubled that

. people on the SCC think somehow
that the ad hoc review committee was
impugning the SCC, which was not
the case.’’ Johnson said, ‘‘We are
dealing with the perceptions of stu-
dents, which is part of the social real-
ity of the school.”’

Three students asked for clarifica-
tion about the circumstances sur-
rounding the formatiornof the CRC.
Senior John Roach, who spoke out
against the CRC at an EC meeting a
month ago, said that the ad hoc review
committee ‘‘didn’t give the SCC a
chance to respond’’ against their loss
of power.

Professor Samuel J. Kozak, head of
both the ad hoc review committee and
the CRC, responded by saying Mike
Henry, chairman of the SCC last year,
and Brad Root, president of the EC

Please See CRC on Page 4

W&L students charged

 

Staff Report

 

Three Washington and Lee Univer-
sity students’ cases were heard before
the Rockbridge County Circuit Court
last week.

Harmon Harden of Winter Park,
Fla., was sentenced to 30 days in jail
and a $500 fine after being found gui-
Ity of a class one misdemeanor for the
possession of marijuana.

A motion was granted by the court
to strike the charge of manufacturing
or possessing marijuana with the in-
tent to manufacture the same, not for
his own use.

David Alden Shaw of Easton, Md.,
pleaded guilty to a class one mis-
demeanor for the possession of mari-
juana and was placed on first offender
status as part of probation for an un-
disclosed period of time. That was
after passing a drug test ordered by the
court.

Commonwealth’s Attorney Eric L.
Sisler chose not to prosecute the in-
dictment for possession of cocaine
(nol. pros.).

All charges against Carey Ferguson
Garst of Boones Mill, Va., were dis-
missed for lack of evidence.

It is the policy of the Board of

Trustees that students who are facing
charges in felony cases_ will not have

 

their degrees considered and thus their
diplomas will be withheld. With these
cases coming to their conclusion, the
matter of three diplomas comes to the
forefront.

According to J.W. Elrod, Dean of
the College, there is no set policy, but
the Board of Trustees will make one
for the Catalog Issue of Washington
and Lee University at its October
meeting.

‘The university takes any disciplin-
ary action it sees fit only after the
court has adjudicated the cases,’’ said
Elrod.

Elrod explained that after the stu-
dent has paid his debt to society, then
it is the responsibility of the faculty to
vote whether or not the degree should
be conferred by the Board of Trustees.
The last step after that is the final con-
sideration by the Board.

port, and then used as a basis for a
capital campaign. Elrod said, ‘‘The
fund raising campaign, hopefully be-
ginning in 1990, will be needed to
raise money to pay for the new pro-
grams recommended in the long range
plan report.’

Washington and Lee was given
permission by the SACS to do the
long-range plan in lieu of the custo-
mary self study report in order to plan
the school’s future for the next 10
years. The evaluation officially began
this summer. and the final report will

be written by May 30, 1989, Elrod
said.

People involved in the planning said
some recommendations that may
come forward in the area reports are
one or two more buildings, more fa
culty, increased computing power for
faculty, more financial aid for needy
and meritorious students, a few new
interdisciplinary academic programs,
more research and instructional lab
space, and greater opportunities for
study abroad.

 

Former Virginia Governor Chuck Robb.

  

By Becky Rey
Staff Reporter

 

Charles S. Robb, the former gov-
ernor of Virginia, stressed the impor-
tance of the social and economic situa-
tion in America in a stump speech
Monday in Lee Chapel.

“The subject of the social and
economic situation in America has
been a subject shoved on the back
burner of political debate. I think it be-
longs at the top of our agenda,’’ Robb
said in his speech, which was the first
of eight in a series sponsored by Con-
tact, an organization at W&L that
pays speakers to address W&L and the
Lexington community.

Robb, who is running for the U.S.
Senate as a Virginia Democrat, said
the chief dilemma now in our country
is a growing social isolation of the
underclass in our society.

Robb said, ‘“The government needs
purposeful leadership and common ac-
tion. We need to recast social policies
in the light of 25 years experience,...
to combat this problem.”’

He said, ‘‘The government needs to
look at the world in the perspective of

The University received a letter from children growing up in poor homes.

the Circuit Court explaining the Garst
case, which was heard September 30.

In regard to the other two cases,
which were heard October 4, Elrod
said, “‘We (the university) haven't
heard from the court officially yet.”’

If a letter similar to that clearing
Garst arrives this week in regard to
Harden and Shaw, the Board of
Trustees should be considering the
three men’s degrees at its November 9
meeting.

WAL News Office

U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor will be speaking in Lee Chapel
Thursday, October 20, as a part of the Otey lecture series.

We have to let them know we care
what happens to them and we'll help
them if they help themselves.”’

Robb proposed several ways to be-
gin this process, including early inter-
vention, expanded prenatal care, pub-
lic/private cooperation and public
safety. He also emphasized creating
new opportunities for young Ameri-
cans to serve their country.

“If we can tap the energy of our
young Americans and tap our social

Photo by: Cheryl Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

Robb speaks of future

needs, we will be a better America,”
Robb said. ‘‘I intend to haul a new
sense of urgency on the social prob
lem debate if I am elected to the Sen
me: :

After Rob’s speech, his wife, Linda
Robb, reiterated her husband’s asser
tions. ‘‘We all need to feel we are
making a contribution to society, do
ing something for others,’” she said.

Robb, who has an honorary degree
from ‘W&L and has spoken at the
school three times in the last four
years, was governor of Virginia from

1982-1985.

Robb’s Republican opponent for the
Senate seat, Maurice A. Dawkins,
also was invited by Contact to speak at
WaL.

Robert K. Tompkins, a member of
Contact, said Dawkins will be north of
Lexington at the McCormick Farm on
Oct. 18 and has been invited to speak
at W&L that afternoon or evening. ‘‘It
has been fairly difficult to schedule
and we have not received an answer
from Dawkins yet,’’ Tompkins said.

According to Tompkins, the two
candidates were originally asked by
Contact to have a debate at W&L, but
both refused. *‘Robb called back later
and asked if he could speak,’’ Tomp
kins said. According to Tompkins,
this is why Contact sponsored Robb’s
speech and will sponsor Dawkins’ if
possible. He added that neither candi
date is getting paid for speaking as is
Contact’s usual procedure.

Dean John W. Elrod, acting presi
dent of W&L, said of Robb’s speech,
“It was a relief from negative cam
paigning. It’s the first positive politi
cal speech we've heard.’

Justice O’Connor
will give lecture

 

Staff Report

 

San Day O'Connor, the first
woman to be named to the U.S. Su-
preme Court, will deliver the third
Elizabeth Lewis Otey lecture at Wash-
ington and Lee University

O’Connor will speak at 8 p.m.
Thursday, Oct. 20, in Lee Chapel on
the Washington and Lee campus. The
lecture and reception following are
free and open to the public.

A native of Texas, O’Connor
received her bachelor’s and law de-
grees from Stanford University.
While at Stanford, O’Connor served
on the board of editors of the Stanford
Law Review and ‘was elected to the
Order of the Coif.

O’Connor began her legal career as
deputy county attorney for San Mateo
County in California. She served as
civilian attorney for Quartermaster
Market Center in Frankfurt, Ger
many, before entering private practice
in 1958. She served as assistant attor
ney general for Arizona from 1965 to
1969

In 1969, O'Connor was appointed
state senator in Arizona and was sub
sequently re-elected to two two-year
terms. She was elected Senate majori
ty leader in 1972 and served as chair
of the State, County and Municipal

Attairs Committee in 1972 anu 1973

She also served on the Legislative
Council, the Probate Code Commis
sion and the Arizona Advisory Coun
cil on Intergovernmental Relations

O'Connor was elected judge of the
Maricopa County Superior Court in
Phoenix, Ariz., and served from 1975
to 1979. She was appointed to the Ari
zona Court of Appeals and served
from 1979 to 1981.

In 1981, O'Connor was nominated
by President Ronald Reagan as asso
ciate justice of the U.S. Supreme
Court. She was confirmed by the U.S
Senate and took office later that year

The Otey lecture series is named for
Elizabeth Lewis Otey, a pioneer in the
women’s rights movement from
Lynchburg. Otey, who died in 1974 at
the age of 93; was among the first suf
fragettes who marched on the White
House in the early part of this century
in support of the
movement

women’s right

The lecture series was established at
W&L in 1987 by E. Otey Watson of
Lynchburg, Otey’s daughter. This ser
ies is dedicated to bringing recognized
women of achievement to the W&|
The first two Otey lectures

were delivered by

campus
Colorado Con
gresswoman Patricia Schroeder and
National Public Radio journalist Su

san Stamberg
 

 

OPINION

Se ee, ee ee

Environment

The life of every human being hinges on an ability to acquire
food, water, and oxygen. Sex, companionship, comfort and any
other human needs or activities are subordinate to the need for food,
water, and oxygen. Immersed in the bustle of daily life, most Amer-
icans take it for granted that they, will have easy access to those
three vital necessities. But humanity is in the process of destroying
the very resources that make it possible to eat, drink and breathe.
By destroying the environment, the human race is destroying itself.

Every aspect of the environment is part of an inter-related
system. Pollution in the Pacific Ocean can influence the number of
salmon a bear on a river in Oregon catches. A change in one part of
the environment causes a chain reaction. If the atmosphere becomes
super-saturated with carbon dioxide, forests will dry out and die.
The ocean will heat up and rise, and fertile land in areas like the
Midwest will be too dry to grow crops.

Pollution, the greenhouse effect, acid rain and other human- de-
rived environmental problems are changing the course of nature.
Before we know the full repercussions of our industrial activities,
there may be no more clean air, no more fertile land, and too many
extinct species of animals to heal the damage done to the envir-
onment. The prevention of such environmental tragedy calls for
concerted effort by all the nations of the world. —

At this point, environmental solutions are sill available, even for
huge problems like the increased amount of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere. It is this carbon dioxide that is causing global warming

 

Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1988

 

4

 

 

 

known as the greenhouse effect. Fortune Magazine reports that the
Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee estimates that the en-
tire greenhouse effect could be stopped by planting 1.7 billion acres
of Sycamore trees, which are particularly adept at absorbing car-
bon. Nations also can help by finding energy alternatives other than
fossil fuels. Burning the fossil fuels is the main source of atmo-

spheric carbon dioxide.

 

MY VIEW

in the summer when each political

‘The election really got started back

States Constitution,
Court and other ‘‘liberal’’ institutions.

 

Despite the ample opportunities for environmental improvement,
countries are doing very little to solve the problems and much to
make them worse. As Fortune points out, instead of planting trees
to help combat the greenhouse effect, countries around the world
are cutting down ‘‘50 acres a minute.”’

In the United States, both presidential candidates are giving
some, but not nearly enough attentfon to environmental issues.

If we ruin the environment, the deficit will be a moot point. Poli-
ticians, and more importantly the populous, must make the envir-

party held a convention. At these con-

By Jon Sbar

In order to take a break from in-
novative work on important issues like
Rock-N-Roll, I have decided to cover
the one thing that is more inane, tri-
vial, and meaningless than the 1984
presidential election — the 1988
presidential election. As election day
draws near, people all over the free

 

 

 

 

 

 

ventions, leading candidates think up
catchy phrases and cliches like ‘Du-
kak-eyed’’ and ‘‘Quayle hunting.”’
No matter what the candidates say the
audience always laughs and applauds.
One Democrat candidate said, ‘‘I’ve
met jello with more personality than
this audience,’’ and, of course, the
audience laughed and applauded.

This year, the Democrats were very
happy about their convention because

proving he is an invertebrate, he dis-
solved any tension between himself
and Kitty by converting to Judaism.
Jackson officially became Jewish at
Shabbat Shalom Temple in New York
City. Only friends and family were
present for the circumcision cere-
Mony. The Reverend recently an-
nounced that in the near future he will
be the Rabbi Jesse Jackson. He also
added that he hopes not to be ‘‘passed
over’’ for a White House position if

picked an Indiana law school student

Campaign ’88: Politician, vegetable or Rabbi

Jewish descent.) But in another stun-
ning display of Jackson’s insistence on

the Supreme ,

Then, with emotion in his voice, Bush °
brought tears to ultra-conservative .
eyes all over the country when he

revealed that he often wakes up to find "

“himself standing naked in his window ,

and reciting the Pledge Allegiance.
(Special note for Bush’s next-door '
neighbor: Bush usually wakes up at ,

about 8:45 a.m.).

In the hopes of attracting younger «
voters to the Republican ticket, Bush

     

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

far, far away, the League of Nations
granted South Africa rule by mandate
of South West Africa (also called Na-
mibia). In 1946, the United Nations
decided not to renew the mandate.

South Africa ignored this, and has re-
mained a presence in Namibia for ap-
proximately 75 years. As one can eas-
ily imagine, the Namibian people have
not been thrilled about this state of af-
fairs. Many belong to the South West
African Peoples Organization
(SWAPO), a group that is supported
by Moscow and has as its leader, Sam
Nujorro of the Ovambo tribe. In 1973,
the U.N. decided that SWAPO rep-
resented the Namibian people and in
1978 passed Resolution 435, demand-

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi

  
 

NEWS STAFF
TVRGRIIG i visssssccistcccscccccsssesossnessesesssssessecsooosccesensssasservsseines Elizabeth Parkins
Heidi Read
Nancy Whalen
Assignments Editors ..........ssssssssceeeseressesseceesssesessssssessssssseessssacoes Eleanor Nelson
Joe Caccamo
Sports EdiHOM ......ccceccesssesesseesseeesseesssseeesesensssseessssscessnsessesaeeeenseees Mike Shady
Entertainment Editor ............csssccssesceesesereeecseeeeseeeeeeessesenessscooseees Michael Tuggle
Layout Editor .........cecceseeeeesseseeeeeeceeeeeseeenccsesensseeesesetssseeneneenees Brooke Jarabek
Photo EdWOP ....cccccrscccccccssccccccccsccccccccscescccccscccesonessseesescossoscccooees Cheryl Barrett
OPINION PAGE STAFF -
Editorial Page Editor ...........ssssssccessssssesssssceesseeeeeeenesscacessssoeensessssasasans Jon Sbar
Editorial Layout ........::csccccsecessesesesseseeeeeeeeeseseneeesesssssensesseseeeeeenes Pamela Kelley
CAPtOOniat ...ccrssccrvescccccrcccccsecccccccesscssssccccsssoceseeeecessesecssoceocoosse Stephen Ingram
seasedbenecednepessbaoeendeocesonsseetecescocceecscscesesccoooseoesecenssetetenesesoosoenees Jeff Woodland
BUSINESS STAFF
TOIENGEE NEMIIRIOE ois sccessccovssvsocssssscescscccenenciesseessessesessveaseees Christie Champlin
Assistant Business Manager .............s0ssesssseseeseees sesssestsessbeneceetovees Fred Turpin
AdVeTUOING WEARAGOT ....00scercscrsceccscccesncccsscnccccssssonsessssssencnesseossoesvecs Anne Dysart
Se I vi easis daidesyisgdcsecssessssessseicccesssccasicsasaiseeeasoiiced Karl Hanson

The Ringum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school yearat
Washington and Leé University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ringtum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
nrenten Senee vee Gis aise eaters end Sustuses aangar, Get Sie Ring dams Phd

otherwise

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 288 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

_——

 

 

 

 

ing the departure of South Africa from
Namibian soil and calling for U.N.
monitored. elections within seven

the country for 13 years. Many Ango-
lans do not like living in a communist
state and have formed the National
Union for the Total Independence of
Angola (UNITA). The organization is
led by Vonas Savimbi and is suppor-
ted by the United States and South
Africa. Like SWAPO, UNITA has
been carrying on a guerrilla war.
Chester Crocker, the assistant U.S.
Secretary of State for African Affairs,
has tried to negotiate the departure of
South Africa from Namibia, and the
Cubans from Angola. Gorbachev has
encouraged the Angolan president,
Eduardo dos Santos, to begin a dia-
logue between the government and
UNITA. The problem is that South
Africa won’t leave until it knows the
Cubans will leave Angola, and vice
versa. The fates of Namibia and Ang-

trous for UNITA and could spell the
end to hopes of democratic (or near
democratic) government in Angola in
the foreseeable future. The Cubans
might leave, but in their wake would
leave an unopposed communist re-

gime. In Namibia, SWAPO leader
Nujorro supports Dukakis in the com-
ing election, believing under his gui-
dance the U.S. will stop intervening in
Soutfern African affairs.
President Bush is victorious, some-
thing approximating the status quo
will be maintained and Mr. Crocker’s
diplomatic work won’t be for naught.

If Vice

The resolution of Angola and Na-

mibia’s problems is therefore on the
back burner until November. In the
end it may be the American electorate
who decides the future of Southern
Africa.

Candidates reflect the populus...

 

MY VIEW

By Damon Fensterman

 

America has reached the pre-
pubescent stage of politics: the age of
the one liner. The current presidential
campaign, more than any other, rep-
resents the monolithic importance of
the mass media in mass politics. It has
been said that in this decade, the
single most effective source of cam-
paign media coverage is not political
advertisements, but appearances on
television news programs. And few
would dispute that claim. After all,
this is the year when the term ‘‘sound
bite’’ became a household phrase, and
when the political observation of the
week was: ‘‘That answer was about as
clear as the Boston Harbor.”

But it would be a waste of time to
belabor the issue of candidates using
one liners rather than substantive dis-

been accused of ‘being out of touch
with the mainstream of America,”’ I
disagree in one sense. These candi-

onment a number-one priority. To save the environment, we need world are slowly realizing that people it had what important newscasters call Dukakis wins the election. to be his running mate. Everyone was: |
awareness, education and most of all — action. with eggplant level intelligence belong Unity. What these newscasters mean is Many believe that the Democrats happy with the choice of law school
in politics. that there were none of the candidate may have gone a little too far inthe in- _ sophomore Dan Quayle until the press
fistfights that usually occur at Demo- terest of party solidarity when it was discovered what Quayle was doing ,
cratic Conventions. Of course, many announced that Jackson frequently during the Vietnam War. The long-
convention planners were worried that Spends the night with Mike and Kitty haired 13-year-old was in Canada ‘
there might be tension between Kitty in their bedroom. (Note: For curious protesting the war and using psy- ,
‘The Cat’? Dukakis, who is Jewish, eaders: Check the upcoming issue of — chedelic drugs.
and the leading Democratic conten- ““Penthouse’’ magazine for exclusive My boring analysis of the political *
der, the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Conven- Photos revealing exactly what this conventions proves that George Or- .
tion planners said the potential existed united threesome does to relax after a_—_ well was right when he predicted that
ial be & for a personality conflict because the hard day on the campaign trails.) America was moving closer and
? ' } Rev. JJ once called New York Hymie- The Republicans’ Convention was closer to the form of government
Vol teen" Lae Uerther fans : town while drinking in a well-known almost as successful as the Demo- knowns a stupidacracy — rule by the
U f) sh wp of event New York bar. (Note: Hymie is a ctat’s. Bush drew applause by taking a crypid,
Or anjeacrene : t " derogatory slang term for a person of stand against the ACLU, the United
S © gm ro Spe ae !
‘APO ALN® lowe at beFlne 00 : J 2 .
Gerera! Volonteers Well Boys 72  \\ malie whit fe sore,
Superdance is Apothy « i . : : ‘
Am n> Agere al , months of said departure. ola are therefore inexorably linked.
In 1975, ola finally lost its The conclusion to the situation ma
By Brothers ad Sahos ; MY VIEW il atthe snk Whim.
Commonly Serice APATHY |- pendent nation. The new government orl a on has Dies
= : : was terrified of South African aggres- ! cut off support to UNIT
TITIAN _ By Julia Kirk sion and called on the Soviet Union aS stated that each country and its
| | | | | for help. Help came in the form of Problems should be dealt with indivi-
s—se ~ Long, long agg in a political era 40,000 Cubans, who have remained in dually. Such a policy would be disas-  ,

>

Y

4

less knowledge thereof. And _poli- ,
ticians, though not necessarily more ¢

dishonest than ever before, are cer-

cussions of real issues to reach the
American electorate. The topic has
already elicited many stacks of printed
page.

The salient point is this: although
Americans might accuse 1988's poli-
ticians for being shallow, short-
sighted, and simplistic in their politi-
cal pitches, it isn’t the fault of the can-
didates. It isn’t even the fault of their
high-powered media staffs. Rather,
the blame lies on the American peo-
ple.

Americans are the ones who buy the
empty political rhetoric. They are the
ones who cheer the adolescent
exchange of one- liners. And they are
the ones who are so politically ignor-
ant that their vote might be swayed by
how a candidate looks on television.

And while both candidates have

dates are very much in touch with
America if they emphasize such shal-
low methods of communication as I’-
ve mentioned. Whatever else the
“‘mainstream of America’’ is, it’s pol-
itically ignorant. And mass media
have given candidates the tool to tap
that ignorance.

Obviously, rhetoric has always had
a place in American politics. Candi-
dates have never been totally honest
with the electorate. And from Day
One, the electorate has had considera-
bly less-than-total control over what
transpires in government. However,
those two forces have balanced each
other.

Yet, in the 80s, we’re beginning to
see that balance slip, While Ameri-
cans gain more and more control over
the government, they possess less and

tainly not required to be honest. Poli- *
ticians are only required to be suave «
and impressive. They have to ‘look
presidential,’’ not BE presidential.

It’s about time for America to wake ,
up. The ‘‘compact of government’
completely falls apart when the people *
don’t even know what their govern- |
ment does. We live in a country where
the citizens entrusted all power to the
government, and then put it on autopi-
lot. That’s hardly the sort of political
savvy that enables ME to sleep easily »
at night.

No one’s going to take away an in-
dividual’s right to vote just because of +
ignorance. But what happens when we ,
ELECT someone who takes away all
of our rights?
NEWS

Alcohol Awareness Week educates the students

 

+ By Heather Logan
» Staff Reporter

Research has shown that there are
§ 10 reasons most often given for exces
; Sive alcohol use on college campuses

Boredom — Nothing else to do

Peer Pressure — Others expect you
: to.

Manage stress

Get drunk — Just to

Fit in — Everyone else is doing it
} Escape from pressure — The stress
: Of studying, especially after exams

Impress dates — This goes for both
|, SEXES.

Relax

‘blow it off.”°

Live Drive will save lives

‘ By Clint Wheelock
Staff Reporter

Live Drive will begin its service

: on Friday with rides to and from the

Homecoming concert for students

‘and guests who are either too intoxi-

, cated to drive or who feel the need to
, leave a party or the concert

Two vans will be used for Live

‘ Drive shuttling. Beginning at 9 p.m.,

, designated stops will be made approx

Have more fun at parties
else can you have fun?

How

Make friends

pressure

A variation on peer

Enjoyment of the taste —-Maybe,
but the effects are still the same.

With this growing list of reasons
there also is a growing need for the
development of better decisions and
more responsible attitudes and beha-
vior regarding alcoholic beverages.
That is why, during the week of Oct.
16-22, Washington and Lee will join
60 colleges and universities statewide
in Virginia’s seventh annual Colle-

imately every half hour. When a van
is full, it will proceed to the pavilion
and return to the same point on the
circuit to pick up the remaining pas-
sengers.

The first van route is: pavilion,
Gaines Dormitory back parking lot,
Baker-Davis-Gilliam quad, the corral
(in front of Beta Theta Pi and Phi
Kappa Sigma), Sigma Chi, Chi Psi,
Delta Tau Delta, Sigma Phi Epsilon,
Phi Gamma Delta, and back to the pa-
vilion.

The SCC regulates m

 

‘By Beckwith Archer
Staff Reporter

 

, . The Student Conduct Committee is
an organization established to regulate
the behavior of W&L students. The
13-member committee responds to ac-
cusations of student misconduct that
do not fall under the category of honor
violations. The jurisdiction of the
body extends not only through Rock-
bridge County, but also to neighbor-
ing schools. The members of the

“committee include a president and a

, Vice president from every class (the
senior class having three vice presi

‘dents). The law school also has presi-

,dents from each of its three classes.
The chairman and vice-chairman are
‘then selected from among the elected
members by the. Executive Commit-
tee.

The SCC investigates both major
and minor violations. As stated in the
1988-89 Student Handbook, a minor
violation would be ‘‘conduct disrup
tive to the life of the University;...
sale or distribution of marijuana or

Kirk theorizes

 

‘By Laura Dodge
Staff Reporter

Dr. Russell Kirk, spoke Tuesday
‘night in a lecture titled, *‘The Ameri-
¢can Presidency: Hoover Through
Reagan.”

Kirk graduated from Michigan State
,and obtained his Master’s Degree
from Duke University. He has written
*23 books and currently is editor of the
»quarterly journal, University Book

man. He also is director of the social
‘science program of the Education
, Research Council of America, presi-
dent of the Educational Reviewer and
‘ president of the Marguerite Eyer Wil
, bur Foundation in Santa Barbara.

Kirk said the United States presi-
"dency is ‘‘growing more and more to
, dominate American democracy.’’ He

described the first president as a
“kind of king.”

Interviews by Copeland Kapp

providing an alcoholic beverage to

one forbidden by law to purchase the
beverage in question;... repeated vio-
lations of residence hall regulations or
other University policies;... actions
threatening to inflict non- significant
bodily injuries.’’ There are several
options open to the committee when it
comes to a punishment for a minor
offense. These options include: a
monetary fine, social probation, dor-
mitory prebation, some relevant task,
restitution, conduct probation or a
reprimand. If, however, the offense is
not the first of which the student has
been convicted, then a suspension
from school, not exceeding one year,
will be leveled.

The major offenses also are listed in
the Handbook in detail. They are,
‘‘actions threatening tO inflict death or
bodily injury; inflicting death or signi-
ficant bodily injury;... resulting from
driving while intoxicated;... vandal-
ism or significant destruction of prop-
erty;... sustained conduct intending to
and succeeding in preventing the be-
ginning or completion of a public

giate Alcohol Awareness Week.

This week, which grew out of a
National Collegiate Alcohol Aware
ness Week, (NCAA), was created by
the Inter-Association Task Force in
response to a growing concern for al-
cohol education programs in higher
education. The week and its activities
offer a unique way to acquire a better
understanding of the issues surround-
ing alcohol use by college students
who, incidentally, are in one of the
highest risk groups for alcohol-related
accidents and injuries.

The theme ‘‘Drinking: The Great
American Sport?’’ will be addressed
throughout the week in a variety of

The second route is: pavilion,
Henry Street (the pick up point for Phi
Delta Theta, Pi Kappa Alpha, and
Sigma Nu), Lambda Chi Alpha, Kap-
pa Alpha, Phi Kappa Psi, Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon, Kappa Sigma and Pi Phi,
and back to the pavilion.

Live Drive representative John Bu-
chanan said he is confident that
Homecoming will be a good start for
the service, which also covers school
functions and fraternity parties in Lex-
ington or in the county.

isconduct

meeting;... possession with intent to
distribute, or distribution of an opiate
amphetamine, hallucinogen, or co-
caine;... sale of marijuana for
profit;... theft offenses and fraud
offenses referred to the SCC by the
Executive Committee.’’ The penalties
for such offenses are expulsion or
suspension.

Chairman David Burns said this
year the SCC will be working more
closely with the Lexington commun-
ity. SCC members will.be concentrat-
ing On trouble spots such as the hospi-
tals, which seldom report misconduct
to the school, and also establishments
that stay open late at night, including
Lloyd’s and Stop-In. Confidentiality
also will be stressed this year. The
SCC intends to look into sanctions for
confidential information that is
leaked. ‘The SCC," said Burns, ‘‘is
a very level-headed group, which has
no fraternal, racial or sexual bias. The
deliberations sometimes last for hours
and the decisions are extremely ap-
propriate. The student body is well
represented by the Student Conduct
Committee.”’

on past presidencies

Kirk also theorized that the long-term
drift of the U.S. government has been
towards increased concentration of
power.

While describing the presidency,
Kirk referred to Caesarism. Kirk said
that Caesarism arrived in the execu-
tive office with Lyndon B. Johnson.
Kirk said, ‘‘Johnson never lacked
nerve.”

Eugene McCarthy also was a cen-
tral figure in Kirk’s speech. As a
prominent political figure during the
1950s-70s, McCarthy, to Kirk, was a
“poet as a_ politician.’’ Through
McCarthy's opinion, Kirk described
John F. Kennedy. He said, ‘‘Eugene
McCarthy denied that either Jack
Kennedy nor his family brought mean-
ing to the American public.”’

The first president to speak of
American decadence, according to
Kirk, was Richard Nixon. When

  

 

 

ington, NY

é About two seconds ago

Beth Stutzman, junior, Port Wash-

|When was the last time you

 

and my cat was In ashes

Rob Brown °86, Washington, D.C.
‘‘T haven't heard anything about
humans, but | woke up one morning

Nixon asked Kirk if Americans had
any hope, Kirk: replied, ‘‘That de-
pends on popular belief.’ For, Rus-
sell Kirk believes the public will fol-
low the contemporary prophets.

After what Kirk describes as the
“‘quasi-populous Carter,’’ came the
““Western-hero”’ president — Reagan.
Kirk said Reagan has had to wear a
mask throughout his administration,
although he has executed his position
as ‘‘a man of great courage.”

Kirk also said that the president to-
day is ‘‘responsible for everything.”’
The concentration on television de-
bates, advertising and campaigns has
led to a ‘‘publicitary democracy.”’
However, Kirk gave a glimmer of
hope concerning America when he
compared the nation to the Byzantine
Empire. ‘‘A period of decay may lead
to a period of progress.’’ The deca-
dence Nixon first spoke of may not
last.

different programs
Monday, Oct. 17,

Beginning on
through Wednes

day, Oct. 19, there will be videos
shown on the hour of Louise Bias’ and
Bob Lynn’s lectures from last year
The times will be posted in the lobby

of the library and the | ookstore

On Tuesday, Oct. 18, there will be
two “‘live’’ satellite programs where
panelists, including Dr. Richard Keel
ing, president of the American Col
lege Health Association, will in
vestigate and propose solutions to the
drinking problem on college cam
puses. Both programs will be held in
the Northen Auditorium, one at 11

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1988

a.m. and the other at 8:30 p.m. The
evening program also will include an
opportunity for students to call the

panel directly with questions via a toll-
free 800 telephone number.

Wednesday evening, Oct. 19, the
GHQ will sponsor a Controlled Drink-
ing Experiment where volunteers cho-
sen from both the faculty and the stu-
dent body will be tested with the Alco-
Sensor throughout the evening.

Then, on Friday, Oct. 21, Washing-
ton and Lee will have the honor of
hearing Mike Green, M.Ed., speak
about alcohol abuse from the sports
perspective.

His extensive back-

ground as an athlete (All Pennsylvania
Conference and Little All American
honors), coach (college varsity foot
ball, Division II), and educator (athk
tic director for Devereux Foundation)
plus his experience as a recovering al
coholic make his message of mod
tion and peer responsibility an impor
tant one. He will give one presentation
for the athletes at 2 p.m. in the gym
and another presentation for the whol
school in Lee Chapel at 3:30 p.m

Information will be posted on dis
play tables in the lobby of the library
and in the bookstore. If more inforn
tion is needed, call Carol Caulkins in
the University Center

 

Rumors played at Trident’s afternoon party on Saturday, October 8. The live drive van was used for the first time to transport
students out to Zollman’s. ‘‘The people who were there had a great time,”’ according to Clare Kaye. All students are invited to at-
tend Trident’s Parent’s Weekend Cocktail Party in the Fairfax Lounge from 4 to 6 on Saturday, November 5.

Career symposium for seniors

 

By Genienne Mongno
Staff Reporter

 

Five W&L alumni will be on cam-
pus today and tomorrow to participate
in the first annual Alumni Career
Symposium.

The purpose of the symposium,
sponsored by the Career Development
and Placement Office in conjunction
with the Alumni Office, is to bring

together alumni from various career

fields that are of interest to students.
The alumni will have several oppor
tunities to talk to the students about
their career plans and answer the stu-
dents’ questions about career fields,
according to Dr. Rick Heatley, direc-
tor of career services at Washington
and Lee.

The focal event will occur from
noon to 2 p.m Friday in Evans Dining
Hall. Heatley said when students go to
the dining hall during this time, they
will be able to visit informally with the
alumni guests over lunch.

A reception open to students and fa-
culty from 6 to 7:15 p.m. Thursday
evening in Fairfax Lounge and
speeches by the five alumni on Thurs-
day and Friday will round out the
symposium.

The following alumni will be giving
speeches:

— Linda Klein, W&L Law °83, at
torney from Atlanta; will present a
speech titled, *‘So You want to Go to
Law School?”’ at 11 a.m. today and 2
p.m. tomorrow.

— Joseph Sher, W&L °53, free
lance writer; will speak about free-
lance writing and producing for telev-
ision and video at 2 p.m. today and 11
a.m. tomorrow,

— Walter Nicklin Il], W&L ’67,
president of Dominion Publishing

 

 

grade.”

TALKBACK

 

Amy Balfour, senior, Richmond.
Va.

‘ona Real People episode in the 8th '

    
 

 

Co., will speak about the major in re-
lation to the career in his speech titled,
‘From German and English to Publi-
sher and President,’’ at 4 p.m. today.

—Ryland Owen, W&L °78, history
teacher at the Calverton School; will
speak about the teacher’s life in a pri-
vate school, at 2 p.m. today and 9
a.m. tomorrow.

— Kenneth Lane, W&L °64, coor-
dinator of emergency services for the
Rockbridge Area Community  Ser-
Vices Board, will present his speech
titled ‘‘From Mental Health Counsel-
ing to Parish Ministry,’’ at 1 p.m.
Thursday.

All of these speeches will be presen-

 

Staff Report

 

 

John Catron, senior, Manassas, Va.
What the hell is spontaneous hu

ndustion?

Two new plays by Thomas J. Zie-
gler, associate professor of drama at
Washington and Lee University,
will premiere in January 1989.

S Mall Talk will open Jan. 18 at
the Chocolate Bayou Theatre in
Houston, Texas. Home Games will
open Jan. 27 at the American Stage
Company in Teaneck, N.J. Both are
full-length plays.

In § Mall Talk, Ziegler deals with
child abuse. Ziegler wrote his play
about a 7-year-old girl who has been
the victim of ruthless physical abuse.

“Although the play deals with a deeply

serious subject,”’ says Ziegler, ‘‘it
contains some of the best comedy I’ve
ever written. I create characters who
deal with their problems by mixing a
great deal of laughter into the pain.”’

Home Games was chosen as the final
selection for the American State

 

Photo by: Chery! Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

ted in rooms 107 and 108 in the Uni
versity Center.

Heatley said that the symposiuy
“an invaluable way for students who
are trying to crystalize career plans to
speak to specialists in the fields they
are interested in.’’ He added that the
alumni are ‘‘eager, if not fervent, to
help students with their career plans.’

If the response to this first sympo
sium is positive, Heatley plans to
make it an annual event around the
time of homecoming. He said that hx
also has plans to broaden it to includ:
4s many as 15 to 20 alumni participa
ing in the career exchange.

WA&L prof’s plays premiere

Company’s 1988-89 season. A light
hearted comedy, the play involves
Tony Tucker, a former fourth-string
catcher for the New York Yankees
and his daughter Mertyl Mae.

Mental aberrations brought about
by an accident cause Tony to con
tinue to relive a momentous 1955
World Series game, which too}
place more. than 30 years ago. Mer
tyl has resigned herself to takin;
care of her old, deranged father, un
til a young man falls in love with he:
and tries to convince her that she
wasting her life. Home Games wi
be directed by Roderick Coo!
whose own play, O Coward, 1
cently was revived on Broadway.

Ziegler, resident scene designer
and playwright at W&L, joined the
faculty in 1976. He teaches courses
in theater design, play production
and play writing. A number of his
plays have been selected for produ
tion at theaters across the country

    
 
 

 

 

Justin
Mass.

**T’ve never heard of it.”’

Walker, junior, Boston,

 

 
 

2 aw

ane

 

 

 

 

File Photo

Rockbridge series

 

The Rockbridge Concert-Theatre
Series will open its 1988-89 season
with the internationally acclaimed
Paillard Chamber Orchestra and vir-
tuoso flute soloist Shigenori Kudo at
8 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 23. The con-
cert will take place at Jackson Me-
morial Hall on the Virginia Military
Institute post.

Founded in 1953 by the French
conductor and musicologist Jean-
Francois Paillard, the Paillard
Chamber Orchestra has played a
leading role in the revival of the mu-
sic of the 17th and 18th centuries, an
RCTS spokesperson said. This role
was further enhanced by the record-
ing of Johann Pachelbel’s Canon in
D, which has become the best sell-
ing classical recording of all time.
The recording was named Classical
Album of the Year, and Jean Fran-
cois Paillard was named Artist of the
Year by Billboard.

The Paillard Chamber Orchestra
is a permanent ensemble consisting
of seven violins, two violas, two ce-
Ili, a double bass and a harpsichord.

 

starts with orchestra

' Staff Report

The group performs programs and
recordings that include works from
the baroque through the contempor-
ary eras.

The Paillard Chamber Orchestra
gives an annual series of concerts in
France and has performed in the
major music centers and at festivals
throughout the world, including fre-
quent tours of North America.

The program on Oct. 23 will in-
clude Handel’s Concerto grosso Op.
6 No. 12 in B minor, Violin Con-
certo Op. 7 No. | by Leclair and Six
Epigraphes Antiques by Debussy.

Tickets for the performance are
$12 for adults and $5 for students. A
subscription to the entire series of
five events is $30 for adults and $10
for students.

The series also includes the
Christmas musical Mr. Pickwick’s
Stories for a Christmas Evening, the

National Theatre of the Deaf in King.

of Hearts, the Jimmy Heath Quartet
and the Pittsburgh Opera Theatre in
The Marriage of Figaro.

For tickets and information, call
Yvonne Emerson at 463-4219 or
Lee RiCharde at 463-9670.

Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Mein St.

 

 

 

 

 

Hours: 11-5

463-2742

 

 

 

 

Rockbridge Music

Featuring: Peavey, |banez, Ovation, Takamine, CB700 drums,
fiddles, mandolins, banjos, accessories and lessons and repairs.
Plus a good-time band for your party needs!

205 N. Main

463-5455

 

 

By John Vittori
Staff Reporter

 

I entered the offices of the Lex-
ington Downtown Development As-
sociation (LDDA), preparing myself
for a brief interview I had arranged
with LDDA Executive Director Diane
Herrick. Instead, I was greeted with
three cartons of stuffed envelopes and
a plea of help from my interviewee to
take my share downstairs. After com-
pleting the interview, I realized I had
gotten a little taste of how the LDDA
functions — through the help of
everyone in the community.

The idea for the LDDA began when
the Historic Lexington Foundation
and the Lexington-Rockbridge County
Chamber of Commerce sponsored a
video conference about the national
Main Street Program in the fall of
1984 at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Herrick said. LDDA received its
national charter in April 1985, and in
1987 became an official Virginia main
street city. There currently are 10

such cities in the state and more than
350 in the country, Herrick said.

The LDDA functions on a four-part
program. Herrick said the four parts
are: organization, design, economic
restructuring and promotion. The Or-
ganization Committee establishes a
partnership of all the businesses that
are members of the LDDA. The De-
sign Committee works to enhance the
appearance of downtown Lexipgton.
The Economic Restructuring Cammit-
tee tries to help businesses financially
by establishing, for example, low in-
terest renovation loan programs. And
the Promotions Committee holds
events throughout the year, such as
Downtown Week, Student Bags for
incoming students at W&L, Virginia
Military Institute and Southern Sem-
inary College, and President’s Birth-
day Sales.

Herrick said technical assistants are
hired to help each city. She described
Lexington’s technical assistant as
‘*most beneficial.’’ Herrick said her
own job mainly is to contact the
stores. She said, ‘‘My role is as a

 

CRC

 

(continued from page |)

last year, were to have reported back
to their respective committees to field
comments and suggestions.

SCC Chairman David Burns said

‘The problem was that Mike Henry
did not consult the committee.”’
Henry told the ad hoc review commit-
tee that the ‘‘SCC did not feel comfor-
table with those kinds of cases.”’

Senior EC Representative John
McDonough said, ‘‘It seems like the
decision[{to form the CRC] was made
on a casual basis.’’ No formal guide-
lines were written for the CRC before
its formation, and procedures have yet
to be defined. McDonough questioned
how the ad hoc review committee
could form the CRC without first de-
ciding what the new committee should
have power to do.

Kozak said, ‘‘I think it was beyond

the commission of the ad hoc review
committee to make the guidelines [for
the CRC].’’ Kozak said the CRC is
working on procedures, and expects
to have them ready for approval by the
end of the month.

Law Professor Johnson said, ‘You
don’t adapt detailed procedures before
the committee has been approved.’’
Johnson said he thinks it is early to be
considering changes from the CRC,
since the CRC ‘‘has not had a chance
to operate.”’

Third-Year Law EC Representative
Dave Nave said, ‘‘People really just
don’t know what the CRC will be able
to do.’’ Nave asked for ‘‘clarification
on the substance of the policy,’’ as
soon as possible, to clear up confu-
sion.

Kozak said, ‘‘We’re working as
quickly as we can.”’

The EC will submit its alternate
committee proposal to the faculty at its
next meeting on Monday, Nov. 17.

 

 

ePatetatetete’ *
aera sere tetececeeceatattatatatetatatats tat atatae

Old Main St. Mall
— Va. 24450

eceaestaheeahaPetctetahatctatataPetatetatatateMatetetetetafy

Welcome Back

To Lexington

Plan to meet your friends at

Secececeleceseres

rererorererenecereststststa’

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1988

LDDA works to enhance
downtown Lexington

communicator; there is a real under-
ground of information (out there).

She said Lexington is geared to
serve three markets: tourist, local and
student. Herrick said the LDDA helps
individual stores decide which market
is best for them to gear toward serv-

ing.

 

Herrick said the LDDA receives no
funding from the state. She said it de-
pends on the contributions of the city
and the 103 businesses that make up
the LDDA. When asked about the
effectiveness of the LDDA, Herrick
said, ‘‘I know it has worked well.”’

Flea market can offer
many nostalgic items

By L. Joelle Jackson
Staff Reporter

 

If you are looking for great bargains
and interesting conversation, Lexing-
ton’s Flea Market is the place for you.
Located on Va. 631 about ‘miles
west of East Lexington, this Flea
Market is a true piece of Lexington
nostalgia. It has been in operation for
13 years, and is now at its second loca-
tion.

The market has three dealers; Carl
and Ruby Blackwell Sr., Carl Black-
well Jr., and William O’Connor each
operate their own sections. The
Blackwells are native Virginians and
have been residents of Lexington for
many years; O’Connor is from New
Jersey. O’Connor states that at the
point of retirement, he and his wife
wanted to move somewhere other than
New Jersey, and, while he wanted to
move to Ireland, his wife wanted to
move to Virginia. ‘‘So,’’ he said,
‘*We compromised and moved to Vir-
ginia.”’

The Flea Market is more of a hobby
than anything else to them. Blackwell
explains that their prices are so low
because their joy comes more from
the actual buying and selling than re-
ceiving a large profit. Most of their
merchandise comes from yard sales
and auctions and is re-sold at virtually
the same cost for which they bought it.

‘‘T have some things I sell for $20,”’
Blackwell states, ‘‘that if I he!d onto, I
could eventually get $65 for, but that
would mean that I couldn’t keep buy-
ing things.”’

Out of Blackwell's favorite items is
a cash register from a filling station
where he went as a child ‘‘to buy ice
cream in little dixie cups for 5 cents’’;
it retails in the books for almost $900.
Another interesting item is a true
piece of Lexington memorabilia. Car!
Blackwell Jr. owns a scale that gives a
fortune. It used to sit in front of the
Lexington five-and-dime-store on
Main Street where Lexington Hard-
ware is now located.

Mr. Blackwell Jr. demonstrated by
placing a penny in the slot of the
month of his birth and stepping on the
scale. While he did not reveal his
weight, his fortune stated that ‘*You
dodge trouble by laughing it off.”’

Among the thousands of pieces of
merchandise, some other items of in-
terest include a wind-up Victrola
complete with records, brass arm and
brass needle-holder, an adding
machine from the 1920s, a Model T
jack, a wagon wheel wrench, an old-
fashioned wooden ice box, and defin-
itely the strangest item, a mechanism
used to give medicine to a horse. The
best sellers, according to Blackwell,
are the Coca Cola items.

Blackwell says that they have had
patrons from all over the United States
and Canada; however, a large part of
their business comes from Washing-
ton and Lee University.

The Flea Market would like to say
thank you to Washington and Lee and
invites everyone to come in and
browse around,’’ Blackwell says.

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ®Perfumes

Charge Accounts

e Free Delivery

 

Country Kitchen

AN OLO FASHIONED BAKERY
EAT IN OR TAKE OuT

PAUL CAMPBELL
703-463-5691

8 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

’

 

 

 

The Palms

      
   
     
   
   
     
     
   

 

 

   

THE NEW OPTICIANS, INC. Serving anh & ier Daly coccccccococccocococcets
atur unday Brunch 12-
Lexington’s only licensed optician : B O WL / N G ! i z
rs *
wan e
EYEWEAR - CONTACTS - REPAIRS a Ra Z ‘Te — THEFASTLANE 8
Check Our Contact Replacement Prices! ee e.g KO GAME ROOM @
RAY-BANS - VUARNETS = BOLLE’S ews BEER SERVED °
' | nt } Complete Menu .
463-7440 Deavers Alley 203 N. Main wh ite aire F i I tke ft Pro Shop Leagues @
F [2 es ten ( Satellite T.V. Over The Lanes!
Open Now!

12 Noon-Midnight Monday-Thursday
Saturday 9 a.m.-Midnight
Fridays Open Uniti 2 a.m.
Sunday 1 p.m.-Midnight

Ask about our 2 for 1 specials!

Midnight Bowl Special
11:30-2 a.m. Fridays
Music and Prizes

Stop by this Homecoming Weekend for all
your party needs! We carry a complete line of
domestic and imported wines and cheese for
the most discriminating shopper. We also
carry a complete line of fish, beef, poultry
and pork items. We will glady custom cut to
suite your needs.

BOOK NOW!

Don’t let the Holiday pass you by.

 

 

 

Come see us for the lowest fares.

 

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

Have A Great Weekend!

TLC - TRAVEL

463-2197

16 West Washington St. 167 S. Main St.

463-3106 464-2695
Line Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1988
Boetsch selected

 

Staff Report

 

>

Laurent Boetsch, associate profes-
sor of romance languages at Washing-
ton and Lee University, has been
named associate dean of the college of
arts and sciences at W&L, effective
July 1, 1989.

Boetsch will succeed H. Thomas
Williams who, after a three-year term
as associate dean of the college, will
become head of the Physics depart-
‘ment.

During the 1987-88 academic year,
Boetsch served as an Oxford exchange

fellow. He conducted research on the
early 20th-century Spanish novel, es-
pecially the influence of Jose Ortega y
Gassett, at Oxford University in Eng-
land and the Ortega y Gasset Founda-
tion in Madrid and Toledo. Boetsch’s
research was a follow-up to a book he
published in 1986 on the Spanish no-
velist Jose diaz Fernandez.

Boetsch joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1976. A Spanish major,
he received his bachelor’s degree
from W&L in 1969 and master’s and
doctorate in modern languages from
Middlebury College. He served as as-
sistant director of Middlebury’s gra-
duate program in Madrid.

\y

*

*. ,

 

Laurent Boetsch succeeds H. Thomas Wil-
liams as associate dean of the college.

Morgan, visiting prof, poet
signed copies of Parties

 

By Laura Dodge
Staff Reporter

 

“*T want that book!”’ cried a woman,
rising out of her seat at a poetry read-
ing in Virginia in 1987. The woman
was a publisher from Louisiana State
University, the reader was Elizabeth
Seydel Morgan. Within a year, Miss
Morgan’s collection of poems, now
entitled Parties, was published by
Louisiana State University.

Parties is Elizabeth Morgan’s first
publication. She has worked on the
poems over a number of years. Mor-
gan wrote Parties as her thesis project
tg obtain her Master of Fine Arts De-
gree at Virginia Commonwealth Uni-

Gettier

versity in Richmond. David Smith, a
professor at Virginia Commonwealth,
worked on Morgan’s thesis, Parties,
as her thesis director. According to
Morgan, he helped her to revise the
collection ‘‘extensively.”’

Morgan teaches English at St. Cath-
erine’s School in Richmond. She also
has taught a few English courses as a
visiting professor at Washington and
Lee, occasionally giving speeches and
poetry reading at Washington and Lee
and Virginia Military Institute.

The collection of poems is divided
into two sections: ‘“The Party Before
the Party,’’ and ‘‘The Party.’’ The
sections begin with poems of the same
titles. According to the review on the

’s Gifts

CARDS, POSTERS & GIFTS

Route 60

. across from Keydet General

Plenty of Parking

 

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Trek - Bridgestone - Diamond Back
Complete Repair Service
130 S. Main St.
463-7969

back leaf of Parties, ‘‘Parties, pain
and celebration intertwine, and joy
remains the subtext of the deepest
pain.”’

Miss Morgan said it was ‘‘very ex-

citing’’ to have a listener at her read-
ing interrupt her and cry out ‘‘I want
that book.’’ Elizabeth Morgan had not
even begun to try and have her poems
published.

Miss Morgan autographed both

hardcover and paperback copies of
Parties from 3 to 4 p.m. Thursday,
Oct. 8, in the Washington and Lee
bookstore. Although she was occupied
signing books the entire hour, she
stated, ‘‘I did want to say that I never
enjoyed teaching people more than I
did at Washington and Lee.’’

Loud & clear

The football game this weekend
will consist of four quarters, not
two, and Phi Gamma Delta football
fans say, ‘‘Don’t forget to
CHEER!”’

Editor speaks

Robert Mottley, °64, associate
editor of Colonial Homes, will
speak at 4 p.m. Thursday. Oct. 20,
in Reid Hall room 315 on ‘‘What
expectations should I have if I want
to work as a writer or an editor on
New York City?”’

All interested faculty and stu-
dents are invited to attend.

Greek women?

The Sorority Advisory Commit-
tee will sponsor a program at 7:30
p.m. Thursday, Oct. 13, in Lee
Chapel. A speaker will discuss the
advantages of a national sorority
system and another speaker will
describe life on a small campus
with fraternities, but no sororities.
The program, not to exceed one
and one-half hours, will include a
question and answer period.

Politics film

“Ship of Fools’’ (1965, U.S.,
director-producer Stanley Kramer,
starring Vivien Leigh, Lee Mar-
vin, Jose Ferrer, Jose Greco, Wer-
ner Klemperer, Oskar Werner,
George Segal and Simone Sig-

 

noret, novel by Kathy Anne
Porter) will be shown at 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 19
and 20, in Commerce School room
Set.

The film is sponsored by the po-
litics department, and the public is
invited.

Calyx pics

Tomorrow (Friday, Oct. 14) is
the LAST DAY for underclassmen
pictures for the Calyx. The fee is
$12 for all freshmen and any soph-
omores/juniors who did not pay at
matriculation.

Women’s faith

The Women’s Faith Group
meets at 6:30 p.m. every Wednes-
day in the Arlington Women’s
Soe se
denominational group and wel-
comes new members. This fall, the
group is studying what the Bible
has to say about dating, re-
lationships, and sex.

Creative talk

All students and professors are
invited to the English Club’s first
1988-89 open reading. The reading
includes poems and short fiction,
and will be at 7 p.m. Wednesday,
Oct. 326, in Payne 21. ‘‘This is a
good time to get feedback on
Ariel,’’ says a spokesman for the
group. ‘‘Submissions will be col-
lected in mid-November. ”’

OO EE
General Notes

Booze sensor

Staff and students will partici-
pate in a controlled drinking ex-
periment using Alco-Sensors to
determine blood alcohol levels
over a three-hour duration from
8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Wednesday,
Oct. 19, in The Pit.

‘‘Just say no”

Student leaders from around the
country will define the collegiate
problem of alcohol abuse and offer
solutions in a national satellite con-
ference at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday, Oct.
18, in Northen Auditorium.

All students are encouraged to
attend this activity during Alcohol
Awareness Week.

Attn: Freshmen

Freshman class elections will be
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday,
Oct. 17, for EC representative,
class president and class vice
president.

Ballot boxes will be at Davis
Quad and Graham-Lees Quad, and
only freshmen may vote.

Ballot boxes will be at the same
locations for the freshman run-off
elections from 9 a.m to 4 p.m.
Thursday, Oct. 20.

A drug speech

Michael Green, National Colle-
giate consultant on drug and alco-
hol abuse, will speak at 3:30 p.m.
Friday, Oct. 21, in Lee Chapel.
All students are encouraged to at-
tend.

 

 

Fine Cuisine
WN AN ATMOSPHERE SUPREME

“Over 50 years of quality food”
STEAKS ¢ SEAFOOD ¢ CHICKEN
GREEK & ITALIAN SPECIALTIES

* CARRY OUT SERVICE

463-

OPtK
Chotad on thandy

4
SONU UTS)
axvon caso “ne

casos accerT#® 637.%. MAIN LEXINGTON, VA.
=

 

 

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN
Agent
203 South Main Street

Lexington, VA 24450
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

 

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

@ Nationwide is on your side

 

 

 

. CHECK US FOR:

 

| Welcome Alumni
WE'VE MISSED YOU - COME SEE US

e Ruff Hewn ° B.D. Baggies (shirts!)
¢ Royal Scot Jackets ¢ Duckheads
¢ Special Ties e Gitman All Cotton Shirts
ALL SPORT COATS - 20% OFF
' COLLEGE TOWN SHOP
; 111 W. Nelson St.

 

Aluin Bennis
Welcome W&L Alumni

Sero shirts, Woolrich, IZOD and Deans
sweaters, Woolrich outerwear, dress corduroys,
Duckhead khakis, Bass, Walkover, Clark & Top-
sider shoes. After-Six Formal Wear - Fancy
cummerbund and tie sets. Rugby shirts - W&L

belts, ties and

T-shirts.

Ceramic gifts for sale

Rack of year-round and summer suits

Reduced 20%

102 W. Washington St.
463-5383

Choice

MasterCard

Student Charge

 

Valley True Value Hardware

HAROWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

 

ARTO

 

Now is the time to make
your choice. Because
every ArtCarved college
ring — from handsome
traditional to contem-
porary styles — is on sale
now! You'll be impressed
with the fine ArtCarved
craftsmanship that’s
backed by a Full Lifetime
Warranty. And you'll
appreciate the savings.
Don't miss out!

The Quality,
The Craftsmanship.
The Reward You Deserve.

 

Date

© 1987 ArtCarved Class Rings.

 

Oct. 14 and 15 10 a.m.-3

Time

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outing’s outings

The W&L Outing Club will
sponsor two hiking and camping
trips from Sat., Oct. 22, to Sun-
day, Oct. 23 — one to the St. Mar-
y’s Wilderness Area and the other
to Cole Mountain on the Appala-
chian Trail. Details and signup
sheets are in Baker 106, the Outing
Club office.

Pick up i.d.s

Upperclass (sophomore, junior
and senior) student ID cards are
now available for pickup in room
104 of the University Center.

Hours are from 8:30 a.m. to 4

 

p.m. (Carol Calkin’s office).

 

 

RVED

CLASS RINGS

 

 

p.m. University Bookstore

Place

Deposit Required se =
‘enna

 

 

 
SPORTS

 

i

Go home

Freshman Ashley Gray makes a move past a defender in action

against Hollins last week.

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Football shuts down Scots

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

Gary Fallon became the winningest
football coach in W&L history Satur-
day, and he did it with an exclamation
mark, as the Generals rolled to a 20-0
victory over Maryville and their first
shutout in nearly a decade.

Fallon’s 49 wins in 11 seasons at
W&L are balanced by an equal num-
ber of losses, but his teams can still
boast more victories than those coa-
ched by Lee McLaughlin, whose
Generals won two Southern Confer-
ence titles, a College Athletic Confer-
ence Championship and one small-
college national title.

But Fallon, as usual, was reluctant
to take credit for his successes

“It's a credit to the staff and the
kids,’’ he said. ‘‘If I stay around long
enough, I'll probably have the record
for the most losses, too.”’

Although the final score wasn’t
even close, the game didn’t begin as a
blowout. After receiving the opening
kickoff, the W&L offense stalled, and
senior Tom Skeen came on to punt.
The snap from center sailed over
Skeen’s head, and Maryville took
over at the W&L 11.

But the defense held for the Gen-
erals, and senior tackle Jim Johnson
blocked a low field goal attempt on
fourth down.

The first play of the next series — a
4-yard gain on a sweep by Mason
Pope — was only the sophomore tail-
back’s eighth carry of the season. But
Pope would go on to play the game of
his career. W&L ran 71 offensive
plays Saturday, and Pope carried the
football on 30 of them; W&L gained
360 yards Saturday, and Pope rushed
for 163 of them.

Pope scored five plays into that
first-quarter drive, but a holding pen-

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The Hampden-Sydney Tigers
have never lost a W&L homecom-
ing game, and the Generals, to use
one of coach Gary Fallon’s
favorite phrases, ‘‘will have their
hands full’’ in trying to end that
streak Saturday afternoon on Wil-
son Field.

The Tigers, 3-2 overall and 1-1
in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, are coming off a tough
21-14 fourth-quarter loss to Emory
& Henry.

Against the Wasps, Hampden-
Sydney scored first on an 11-yard
run by freshman running back Len
Armstrong (5-8, 145). But Fallon

 

alty brought back the touchdown and
changed a 35-yard scoring run into a
20-yard carry that gave W&L first and
goal from the 15. Sophomore Carter
Quayle kicked a 25-yard field goal
that capped a 9-play, 73-yard drive,
and W&L took a 3-0 lead.

The second quarter began with the
Scots driving. But four straight tackles
by Johnson — including a huge hit on
fourth and one at the W&L 13 —
humbled the Maryville offense and set

 

Squids no easy pickings for Generals .

is more concerned about the two
Tigers that combined for Sydney’s
second touchdown — a 79-yard
pass from quarterback Dan Lara-
more to flanker Stephen Waskey.

Laramore (6-4, 180), a senior,
completed 77 of 163 passes for
1,091 yards in 1987 and has been
just as effective in 1988. Through
five games, Laramore has com-
pleted 58 of 107 passes for 799
yards, five touchdowns, five inter-
ceptions and a 123.01 rating, sec-
ond in the ODAC.

‘*With Laramore back, the pass-
ing game looks promising,’’ said
Sydney head coach Joe Bush, and
Fallon agreed, calling Laramore
‘‘a pretty experienced field gen-
eral.”’

.
’
;
La
;

up the biggest drive of Mason Pope's ,
career. A play-by-play summary of
that drive shows why Pope was named }
the Old Dominion Athletic Conferen
ce’s player of the week:

Pope +23.
Pope +3.
Gilbert +38.
Pope +13.
Pope +5.

‘They have the best set of
receivers in the league,”’ said Fal-
lon. Waskey is backed up by Al |)
Naranjo (5-10, 165) and John
Jewell (6-2, 195).

Despite the loss of David Kelly, |'
number two on the Hampden- |,
Sydney career rushing list, the
Tigers can also run the football.
Chris Barth (6-2, 198) is the num- |,
ber three rusher in the ODAC,
with 84 carries for 358 yards and |’
three touchdowns. 5

The Sydney defense is anchored
by cornerback Jack Barber (6-0, |?
170), a two-time first-team all-
ODAC selection and a member of
last year’s Roanoke Times & World |+
News Division II-Ifl All-State
Team.

 

 

Water polo crams for West Coast exam

 

By Tom Wingfield
Staff Reporter

 

Exams at Washington and Lee are not scheduled
until the middle of December. This weekend the
W&L water polo team heads West for an early set
of examinations where they will play three of the
top 20 teams in the nation. W&L will face Clare
mont University on Friday and the University of
California at San Diego and Pomona-Pitzer on Sat-
urday. UCSD is ranked 10th in the nation; Clare-
mont 19th and Pomona 20th. The Generals are cur-

rently ranked 18th.

This trip is the first of its kind for the Generals’
polo team and is one that acknowledges Washington
and Lee’s water advancement into the upper
echelon of polo in the United States. There will be
11 players representing the team on the trip, a de-
cision that came very hard for head coach Page

Remillard.

“*My policies are not to cut players who try out
for the team,”’ he said. ‘‘I am not used to having to
go through the difficulties of saying ‘no’ to a young
man. I don’t think either the team or myself was

calloused to this type of decision.”’

From Staff Reports

 

The W&L women’s soccer team
went 1-1 over the past week. The
Generals notched a 3-2, come-
from-behind victory over Sweet
Briar Saturday. Freshmen Ashley
Gray and Morgan Warner and
senior Tracy Williams scored for
W&L. The Generals’ record,
however, fell to 5-6 on the season
when the team lost to Lynchburg
1-0 on Tuesday.

The Generals have a full slate of
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
action this week. W&L plays Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman's College in
Lynchburg today and plays host to
Randolph-Macon on Saturday.

The W&L men’s cross country
team went out of town for a meet,
and the W&L women’s team
stayed in town, but both teams had
tough days on Saturday.

The men traveled to Washing-
ton, D.C. for a tri-meet with Cath-
olic University and Lynchburg.
W&L finished both the host team
and the ODAC-rival Hornets. The
final tally had Catholic at 31,
Lynchburg at 34 and W&L with

 

polo before.

played well.”’

play some good polo.”’

millard.

66, which brings the men’s record
to 3-3.

The W&L women fared a little
better than their counterparts.
Sophomore Paige Cason finished
first and freshman Cecily Tynan
was third win W&L’s tri-meet with
Lynchburg and Mary Baldwin in
Lexington. Cason’s time was
21:49, while Tynan finished
W&L’s 3.1-mile course in a time
of 22:30. Lynchburg finished first
in the meet, with W&L second and
Mary Baldwin third.

Both men’s and women’s teams
compete in the Virginia State Meet
in Charlottesville on Saturday. The
men’s race begins at 10 a.m. while
the women’s race starts at 11 a.m.

 

The W&L women’s volleyball
team suffered two ODAC losses
over the past week. Last Thursday,
the Generals traveled to Salem to
play Roanoke and ended up on the
short end of a five- setter. The
Maroons handed W&L a tough
loss, 10-15, 15-8, 15-12, 10-15,
15-10. On Tuesday in the Warner
Center, W&L lost to Eastern Men-
nonite 15-3, 15-6, 15-1 but
defeated Mary Washington 15-7,
15-4.

Remillard’s decision rested on who he felt had
the most experience and ability to accomplish what
the Generals are trying to do on this trip. Ten of the
11 players have had experience in California water

‘This team is a type of California connection that
is looking to go back to the West coast to play with
W&L pride,’’ said Remillard. ‘‘They want to de-
monstrate that non-California water polo can be

Remillard also is looking at this trip as a chance
to impress some potential recruits. ‘‘There will be a
lot of high school players at these games who will
have a chance to see an excellent East Coast school

Despite the importance of this trip in terms of the
athletic standpoint, this will be a cultural experi-
ence for the players as well. The schools the Gen-
erals are playing are very similar to W&L, with
impressive academic standards.

‘*The players at these schools come from similar
backgrounds as our guys do. They go to school to
study first and play water polo second,”’ said Re-

Remillard is looking forward to this trip because
it will be a type of homecoming for him. He left
PEERS SE RTE TENE IEEE ET ST ESO TE ES TEESE IE) MEL LIE ROLE,

 

 

Claremont to come to Washington and Lee 10 years
ago. ‘‘I am going to California with great pride. I
want to show my friends that what I’ve been doing
back East for 10 years has paid off. I am extremely

proud of this team of young men,”’ he said.

Obvious selections for the West Coast team are
two of the seniors, David Reavy and David Dietz.
The Generals will need strong performances from
both of these players at the offensive and defensive

ends of the pool if they hope to do well. Both of

these students have played polo in California and
therefore know what to expect.

‘There is a higher quality of game out West. The
officiating is at a higher level. If you can play with

the teams in the West, then you can play anywhere

in the country,’’ said Dietz.

It is important for us to play well and gain confi-
dence for the Southern League Championships and
Easterns,’’ commented Reavy. /

The Generals are on a mission on this trip — to
prove they can play as well as the West Coast
teams. They feel they need to win their game
against Pomona and they have a 50-50 chance of

beating Claremont. If the Generals can beat UCSD,

they will have passed their exam with flying colors
and will more than likely receive an At.

 

Senior Melissa Thrasher sets the ball for a teammate during

Tuesday night’s match.

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

Missed opportunities hurt men’s soccer in loss to Averett

 

By Jay Plotkin
Staff Reporter

 

It all started well on Tuesday after-
noon for the Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team.

Coming off a forfeit win over Mar-
ymount College, freshman David de
Falco scored a goal five minutes into
the game against Averett College.
After that however, it was all Averett,
as they caught and pulled away from
the Generals, winning the game 3-1.
The loss dropped the Generals to 5-4,
2-1 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference

The Generals had won three out of
their last four games, including the
3-0 domination of arch-rival Hamp-
den-Sydney, coming into the Averett
game, yet looked nothing like a team
that was starting to put the pieces

together.

‘*We just weren’t on top of our
game,’’ said junior half- back Patrick
Brown.

‘‘We had our lapses. There were
times when we played well,’’ said
senior co-captain Mike Veliuona.
‘*We just couldn’t put the ball in the
back of the net. We must have hit the
post four or five times. [Senior for-
ward]|Johnny Sarber had lots of chan-
ces. We just couldn’t capitalize on
them. We played decent, but no where
near the level we are capable of."’

‘*T had a lot of chances to score,”’
said Sarber. ‘*I must have hit the post
three or four times myself, and the
team hit the post five or six times. It
was frustrating. I think we picked up
the tempo of the game in the second
half, but we couldn’t put the ball in the
goal. Some first half let-downs came
back to haunt us.

**Averett has always been an up and
down team. We beat them pretty
soundly last year, but they always
seem to have a good team,”’ he said.

Some players thought the Generals
should have won the game. ‘‘I think
we should have won,’’ said Brown.
‘*We had more potential than they did
to win. We were just unlucky. We
couldn’t seem to put the ball in the
net."

Looking down the road toward the
end of the season, the Generals have a
tough schedule to contend with. Ac-
cording to Veliuona, the team must
play at the level it did against Hamp-
den- Sydney if it wants to reach its
goal of a 10-win season and an ODAC
title.

‘We have a hard schedule left to
play, and looking back, Averett was

probably going to be the easiest game.
There are going to be no easy games
the rest of the way, and we need to
play like we did against H-SC. It will
take good ball[playing] to win 10
games.””

Sarber summed up what lies ahead
for the team. ‘‘Every game is tough,
but foremost on our list is to pull
together and play as a unit. Every
game is going to be a struggle. We've
played our best when we played as a
unit. We’ve set a tough goal for our-
selves, and we'll have to be pumped
up to play every game. The last
ODAC game will decide the cham-
pionship, and I think we’re ready for
it. It is going to be interesting.”’

The Generals take on Guilford Fri-
day at 3:30 p.m. on the Liberty Hall
Fields. W&L then travels to Mary
Washington on Wednesday.

  
     
   
  

 
 
   
       
    
 
  
  
   
      

  
 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.
GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open iton.-Sat. 10-5

31S. Main St., Lexington

463-3355

 

KELLY’S CORNER

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

Moosehead — $4.19/6 Pk.
Michelob — $6.89/12 pk. Bottles
Canada Glacier Bay — $10.00/Case

Hot dogs - 2/99°
u BBQ - $1.49

  

ny

 

| Authorized Lottery Retailer

 

 

Open 7 days

Hunting Licenses, Groceries, Camo Clothes, Game Room

Welcome Alumni

We have a new name - stop in and see our selec-
tion of W&L T-shirts, sweat shirts and hats.

inst “Team Sports

(Formerly Pres Brown's)
115 W. Nelson St.

  
 

Miles & Sandy Nye, proprietors

 

 

  

George’s Hairstylist
463-3975

* Announces *
New Evening Hours
Monday through Thursday
8:30 a.m. - 7 p.m.

Friday 8:30 a.m. -5 p.m.

[x Yes you can make an appoint-

ment or walk in.
(Yes, Redken, Nexxus, Sebastian, Paul Mitchell, etc.

(We take your time seriously.)
Location
Directly behind the Leggett Store Free ample parking
Operators
Rita, Debbie, Donna, Jessie, Linda
Lisa, Sandra, George

George’s

Elegance in the
Old Fradition

  
 
      
         
     
   
   
    
 

- psig

sip

Fees

et RPI mse
 

Come in out
of the cold

The following dialogue came from one of the recent Mets/Dodgers
playoff games at Shea Stadium in New York City.

‘*What do youse guys think the Mets’ chances are?’’ said Tony Beer-
gutini to a couple of his cronies. *‘Do youse think we have a chance to
win the Series?”’

“I don’t (expletive) know,’’ said Ralph Metstein, ‘‘but I do know that
it’s (expletive) cold. I’m going to lose my (expletive) fingers and toes
because of (expletive) frostbite!”’

‘‘Ditto, what he (expletive) said,’’ said Vinnie Cretininski. ‘‘It’s too
(expletive) cold! Pass me the (expletive) rum and hot chocolate.”’

Despite their foul language and bad grammar, these Mets fans are ab-
solutely right. Baseball has no business being played this late in the
year. Does anybody out there really care? Unless you are a devout fan of
one of the teams playing, I’m sure most of you are watching college and
pro football by now. The World Series, known as ‘“The Fall Classic,”’
has become extremely tedious.

Sure, I’ll watch some of the action, but what’s there to watch? I get to
see Wade Boggs, wrapped up in 20 undershirts and four pairs of long
underwear, swing a bat like the Michelin marshmallow man (that’s what
it sometimes looks like). This year baseball got lucky with both teams
coming from the West Coast, but normally this isn’t the case.

Baseball is a game tailor-made for the hot lazy days and nights of
summer. Baseball means sweat, humidity, suntans and ice-cold
lemonade, beer and soda. It does not mean wind-chill factors, numb feet
and hands and thermoses of hot chocolate or coffee. The only ice that
should be seen is the ice used to fill your cooler with, not icicles hanging
from the tops of gates and doorways at the stadiums.

People wonder why some players don’t perform well in the
playoffs—it’s not the pressure but the cold. Hitting a baseball in sub-
zero temperatures is not fun. It hurts if you don’t catch the ball with the
sweet part of the bat. And what about pitchers going to their mouths?
That’s because if they didn’t their hand would freeze solid. Ever try
throwing a baseball with fingers that can’t move?

The solution is simple. Make the season shorter. Cut out all of Sep-
tember and half of August from the schedule. More than half of the
teams in majors are already out to the race by mid July. Instead of mak-
ing their fans suffer for another 2/2months, mercifully end the suffer-
ing. Think how many Orioles and Braves fans will be relieved. I mean,
is there anything in this world less meaningful than a Braves/Phillies
game in late August? By making the season a 100 games or so, the pen-
nant races are tighter, more people are interested and Ted Turner can
rest easier knowing he doesn’t have to broadcast any September Braves
games on TBS.

Start up the playoffs while the sun still sets before 7:00 at night and
finish up the World Series as quickly as possible. Then everyone can go
home before you can say ‘‘Welcome to ESPN’s coverage of the NFL
preseason.”’

NOTES—Here’s the mid-term predictions. Since the Mets went down
the tubes (there is a God) I’ll have to pick the Oakland A’s to win the
Series in five games. Look for the Philadelphia Flyers, Edmonton Oilers

the NBA, the Detroit Pistons will finally bring home the championship.
And finally, Washington and Lee’s football team will beat the dreaded
Hampden-Sydney Squids on Homecoming. Final score: 21-10.....

 

MIKE SHADY|

and Los Angeles Kings (yes) to be in the running for the Stanley Cup. In q

 

 

Bie on AO
Garden Statuary
} Fine Linen and Lace
Gifts ~ Balloons
We Wire Anywhere

 

 

 

 

    
  
     

16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

Presents
The Lexington Spirits Cup
Handcrafted In Lustrous
Pewter
OPEN FRIDAY NIGHT UNTIL 8:00 P.M.

 

BORN /&/ BRED, INC.

16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

 

Don’t Miss Rowena’s
Wonderful Almond Pound
Cake

OPEN FRIDAY NIGHT UNTIL 8:00 P.M.

 

 

 

Wa&L athletes sacrifice fun for competition

 

Jay Plotkin
Staff Reporter

 

It's Homecoming Weekend here
at Washington and Lee University.
What does that mean?

Sure, it means lots of women will be
around the campus. It means lots of
parties. It means a home football
game. It means a big Friday night
concert. So basically, it’s just like
every other weekend, only with a
fancy name.

Because it is that time of year, when
a big weekend occurrence is happen-
ing on campus, it is important not to
forget those students who aren’t going
to be able to have all the fun that
everyone else is. Yes, we must recog-
nize the athletes of this institution.

They can’t always go out over the
weekend and get trashed with the
majority of the school. They can’t go
to Friday night parties due to curfew

Scots

 

Pope +5.
Pope +2.

Unfortunately for him, Pope didn’t
get the touchdown that followed —
junior tight end Bob Martin scored it
on an 11-yard pass play from junior
quarterback Phil Sampson — but Pope
should probably get at least three of
Martin’s six points. In an 8-play,
88-yard scoring drive, he rushed for
51 yards on six carries.

Quayle’s PAT gave the Generals a
10-0 lead, a lead they took into the
third quarter, thanks to an end-zone
interception by Skeen when the Scots
threatened late in the second period.

Maryville took the third-quarter
kickoff but went nowhere. After a
3-yard gain on first down, W&L
sophomore free safety Clark Wight
broke up a pass on second down, and
junior tackle Scott Silverman sacked
Maryville’s Russ Thomas for a 1-yard
loss on third down. The Scots were
forced to punt.

The third quarter ended with a
30-yard W&L scoring drive. After
rushing four times for 4 yards in the
drive’s first six plays, Pope got the

FRANK’S

before Saturday games. Sometimes,
they aren't even around to go to Sat-
urday night parties. How do they feel
about missing weekend social events?

“‘T don’t miss not being able to party
at all. I know I'll be able to party after
the season all I want,’’ said senior
water polo goalie Tom Rawls.

This weekend will be especially
rough for the water polo players.
They can’t go to Homecoming even if
they wanted to. They will be out on
the West coast, playing a tournament.

However, said Rawls, the thought
of playing in the tournament has made
the team work harder. ‘‘This week
our practices have been incredible.”’

Missing Homecoming takes a little
bit out of playing on a team. ‘“We’ve
missed Homecoming three out of four
years, and that takes away from the
fun a bit,’’ says senior Cross Country
captain Bill Clark.

Other than that, Clark says that he
doesn’t mind missing parties. ‘I don’t

 

Mason Pope

touchdown he deserved on a l-yard
carry. Quayle kicked the point-after to
make the score 17-0.

But Maryville head coach Phil
Wilks refused to send his starters to
the locker room. The Scots drove to
the W&L 2, where the defense held on
fourth down to preserve the shutout.

The final scoring drive of the game
saw Fallon run time off the clock with
six running plays and only one pass.
The drive ended when Quayle nailed a
35-yard field goal — his sixth in six at-
tempts this season — to lock up
W&L’s first win of the season.

KING OF PIZZA

Se eee

| 15% off

any pizza - eat in or take out

Good through October 19, 1988

Thank you W&L for your business

 

 

 

 

 

463-7575

Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

   

regret running. I get a lot out of it. I
can make a commitment until the
season is over. I enjoy running and I
still have a lot of time to have fun.’’

Most athletes seem to agree that
when you make a commitment to play
sports, giving up part of your free
time is part of the sacrifice.

Says senior basketball player Lee
Brading, ‘‘Everyone realizes that it is
just part of the sacrifice when you play
a sport. It is only Saturday nights for
US, So it is not really a big deal.’’

It is not always a disadvantage to
miss some weekend parties says soph-
omore volleyball player Sarah Allen.
‘That is one of the advantages of be-

ing on a team. Missing certain func-
tions is worth it because of all the peo-
ple you meet while on the team.”’

Senior water polo player Stu Shel-
don summed the general feelings up.
**It’s something you get used to. Sure,
we don’t like it when we miss things
like Parent’s Weekend, but being on a
winning team helps. If you don’t mind
having a good time every once in a
while (as opposed to every weekend),
it’s okay. We’re used to it, though.
But every once in a while, you think
about all the parties that you are miss-
ing back home.*’

Every once in a while.

te
R.E. Lee Episcopal Church:

Attention W&L Undergraduate Episcopal Students:

All undergraduate W&L Episcopal students are in-
vited to meet for a pizza dinner and Bible study in the
library of R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church on
Sunday, October 16 at 6:00 p.m.

ee

 

 

 

 

Needlework Specialty Shop
11 East Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

Learn To Knit!

Sign up now for knitting classes
Classes begin week of Oct. 24
Instruction in Cross-Stitch
and Needlepoint also available

Call 463-1006

 

 

FLORIST

ffx foce le

Homecoming 1988
Welcome Back Alumni!

165 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
(703) 463-9152

Our ‘Typing’
is

Word Perfect"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M.
Evenings and Weekends by Appointment

OEAVERS ALLEY BUSINESS SERVICES

203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’

Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

Welcome Back
Alumni

23 N. Main St.
(703) 463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sale ends October 31, 1988.
ROCKBRIDGE
eam cOnNA AUTO PARTS, INC.
FILM RIBBON
“H” SERIES
For ponabeslecronic ypewrters In Realtors
ROUTE 60 EAST 1903 SYCAMORE AVENUE
6 44 a9 tiatiagbe si tecmeien, a Sule LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 BUENA VISTA, VIRGINIA 24416
UFT-OFF TAPE Right > .
" Series (smi- e Right
3 19 PS
© 2EA.
REG. $3.95 (across from the post office)
YOUR Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers
JI & B Office Supply RESUME ~
MAL @ STYLE Robby Jones
23 West Washington St. 703/463
Lexington, Virginia 24450 fax Your Parents at Work! Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nel bee
(703) 463-3432 ; ‘ , - Nelson St.
Phone 463-1712 © Fax 463-6918} | With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Welcome
Parents &
Alumni!

Snack Bar
Will Be Open

Saturday from 8 a.m.-2p.m.

 

 

   

 

eo

 

Make your Thanksgiving and

Christmas plans now!

 

21 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-7174

 

Lori Rhodenizer
Campus Representative
Baker 312

463-5862
 

 

 

 

 

“BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1988

 

Films better late than never

 

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

I can remember driving through
Lexington for the first time in 1984
and noticing what a quaint little town
it was with its architecture, its schools
and its people. It was almost as if I had
been put back in time a few dozen
years. About that time I drove past the
theatre and noticed that ‘‘The Wizard
of Oz”’ had finally made it to big Lex.
For a moment it was kinda like Back
to the Future, but once I got back on to
Main Street for lunch at Arby's, I
knew all was well.

Granted, no one has ever accused
Lexington of being ahead of the times.
In fact, they’re usually behind them.
That's not really not so bad though if
you think about it; especially when
movies are concerned. I mean where
else can you see two of the hottest
films of the swmmer in the middle of
October. You gotta love it.

It was good week for movies, with
the exception ofCaddyshack II which
we won't even grace with space.
(After the original Caddyshack, rumor
had it that 2 would be set at an all-
black country club and would star Ed-
die Murphy, Arsenio Hall, Sammie
Davis Jr., Bill Cosby, Redd Foxx and
one white guy to be named later. I
think they blew it on the sequel.)

There is no question that Coming to
America andBig were two of this
summer’s best and funniest films.

Eddie Murphy’s Coming to America
starts off a little slowly but picks up
steam like a San Francisco trolley with
no brakes. Murphy plays a prince who
decides that he wants to find his own

wife instead of being told he will
marry a certain woman. After much
thought he determines that the best
place to look for a queen would be,
(boing) Queens, New York.

Arsenio Hall plays Murphy’s per-
sonal manservant and best friend and
complements Murphy very well. Hall
is really coming on as a comic and will

 

COMING TO

AMERICA

 

Eddie Murphy’s hit this summer - Coming
to America.

take his place beside the aforemen-
tioned comics in time. If Coming to
America is any indication of the fu-
ture, Arsenio’s will be quite bright.
The finest aspect of the film is the
diversity of Murphy and Hall’s talent.
Throughout the course of the film the
two play at least five roles a piece and
they are absolutely hilarious. There is
no question, however, that the high-
point of the comedy comes in the bar-

 

126 S. Main Street
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

pls A Lady
Robert Scott - David Brooks - Andrew Harvey
Skyr Turtlenecks - 15 colors!

463-5434
9-5 Daily

 

) is wonderful.

ber shop when the guys in the barber
shop are arguing about who was the
greatest fighter of all-time. Murphy
plays two characters and Hall one in
the scene and it is just priceless.
(Murphy does play the old, white
man).

The film is fresh and very creative.
There is a tie toTrading Places with
Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche that
The most refreshing
thing though, is seeing once again that
Eddie Murphy is at his best and most
talented when he’s not trying to cuss
the walpaper off the wall.

Tug’s Tag — x&*& &'2

It is becoming increasingly more
evident every six months or so that
Tom Hanks is moving to the forefront
of the comedy world. His new
filmPunchline with Sally Field is get-
ting rave reviews from just about
everyone and his face is on the cover
of every major magazine around.
When did this happen you ask? This
summer.

Thanks to the brilliant direction of
Penny (Laverne & Shirley) Marshall
and the absolute comic genius of
Hanks, a film idea that had been ha-
shed and rehashed over and over again
took on new life and stormed the
summer box offices as one of the
summer’s best films.

Big is a simple story about a kid
who makes a wish about being big and
gets his wish. The beauty of the film is
not the story, it’s the acting. Hanks

463-3191

 

(@

Tilson Real Estate

28 S. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Call us for a free, no-obligation
Market Analysis of yoru property
Town and country properties, farms,
historic homes, building sites,
hunting properties, appraisals

Six Full-Time Salesmen

ea ea a i ee

 

Tom Hanks portrayed a boy of 13 in Big.

has being thirteen down to a T. He’s
just perfect.

The film has scene after scene that
are clearly directed brilliantly and are
acted as well. The scene in FAO
Sewartz in New York is priceless, as
is the scene in Elizabeth Perkins
apartment when she asks Hanks how
he feels about her, as is the whole
film. It is just made up of one great
scene after another that never go
overboard.

If you haven’t seen Big yet, by all
means get to the theatre to see it to-
night. It’s a feel-good movie and de-
finitely one that won’t let you down.

Tug’s Tag — kkk &

 

P.O. Box 1156

 

 

 

 

 

What a quality quilt should be:

Chosen for display in an
American Embassy
eAward Winner, 1988 Quilt Show
at Woodlawn Plantation, Mt. Vernon

Quilters of Virginia

 

visit

 

 

Now located at 22 W. Washington St., Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

TELE. (703) 463-4647
SAN 120-7628

BZ

THE BEST SELLER, INC.

NEw BOOKS-USED BOOKS-SPECIAL ORDERS-SEARCH SERVICE

29 WEST NELSON STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 244S0

 

 

  

sinker.

Wanna Be A Big

Are you an accounting major looking for
real opportunities? Do you seek professional
growth with a firm willing to support your
skills and future? Are you worried that you'll
be lost in a national firm's big pond?

We're one of the largest regional CPA
firms in our nation’s capital. We have a
Z reputation for rewarding those who strive for
Ff success. We need entry-level accountants
who are enthusiastic, ambitious, and dedi-
cated. If you will have your bachelor’s
degree in Accounting this Fall or next Spring
and want to be a big fish, nibble at our bait.

. Sade think you'll go for us hook, line and

Contact the Career Development Office
for more information about us.

Fish?

 

Country “) Fare

COUNTRY CRAFTS & ANTIQUES

Karen A. Noell
703/463-2088

 

4E. Washington St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

OLE ES BE Is PE MOE ane
r Quick Service * Low Prices \
Resumes ¢ Copies ¢ Printing %

Quality Quick Print Ink

TOM RAISBECK
PEG MAASS

|
214 SOUTH MAIN StREET

Tarn eeneneaieeeina iterates

‘
LEXINGTON, VA 24450 \
:
:

(703) 463-9232 a

2

Men's Women's Hairstyling

Manincures

Cosmetics

Tanning

Caper’s Duc.

“When Only The Best Will Do’’

Get A Homecoming Haircut
For Mom and Dad
Capers Special: $8 wet cut

Paul Mitchell, Sebastian, Nexxus and Foltene

  
   

 

calendar

Friday, October 14
Homecoming Weekend
All Day—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Alumni
Career Symposium. CD&P Office; CHALLENGE registration deadline
by 4:30 p.m.
12:10 p.m.—JOHN RANDOLPH TUCKER LECTURE:’ ‘‘Force,”’
Stanley E. Fish, Distinguished Professor of English and Law, Duke
University. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall. Public invited.
3:30 p.m.—MEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Guilford. Liberty Hall
Field.
3:30 p.m.—MATH COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘Abel’s Theorem and its Con-
verse,’ Paul Bourdon, Mathematics Department, W&L. Room 6, Ro-
binson Hall. Refreshments at 3 p.m. Public invited.
4:30 p.m.—SEMINAR: WOMEN IN LAW: PERSPECTIVES OF SUC-
CESS. Informal discussion on ‘‘Where Are They Now? Women Gra-
duates of 1975-1979.’ Morris House. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Hollins.

Saturday, October 15
Homecoming Weekend
10 a.m.—CONCERT: W&L University Choral Groups. Lee Chapel.
Public invited.
11:15 a.m.—Dedication of the Frank J. Gilliam Admissions House. Gil-
liam House. Public invited.
11:30 a.m.—WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Randolph- Ma-
con/Ashland. Liberty Hall Field.
1—3 p.m.—SEMINAR: WOMEN IN LAW: PERSPECTIVES OF SUC-
CESS. Formal panel discussion on ‘‘Combating the ‘Super-Woman
Syndrome’: Balancing Family and a Legal Career.’’ Moot Courtroom, «
Lewis Hall. Public invited. by
2 p.m.—FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney. Wilson Field.  %}
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: MEN’S AND WOMEN’S CROSS *.
COUNTRY: State Meet. WATER POLO: Claremont Invitational
(through Oct. 16). yl

aA

Monday, October 17

Alcohol Awareness Week (Oct. 17—24). e

8 p.m.—POLITICAL DEBATE: 6th Congressional District Candi- |

dates’ Forum: Olin vs. Judd. Lee Chapel. Public invited. é
Tuesday, October 18

11 a.m.—Teleconference on alcohol awareness (for faculty and staff).
Northern Auditorium.

7:30 p.m.—SLIDE LECTURE: ‘‘These Terrible Mementoes,’’ Wil-
liam F. Stapp, curator of photographs, National Portrait Gallery. Pres-)
ton Library, V.M.I. Public invited. 4
8 p.m.—CONCERT: W&L University Chorus to performRequiem by
John Rutter. Lee Chapel. Public invited. '
8:30—11:30 p.m.—Teleconference on alcohol awareness (for stu-
dents). Student leaders around the country will define the problem and
offer solutions. Northern Auditorium, University Library.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: VOLLEYBALL: Emory & Henry.

 

Wednesday, October 19
8 a.m.—ECUMENICAL PRAYER SERVICE: Lee Chapel. Public in-
vited. t
7:30 PeRinePOLATICS FILMFEST: Ship of Fools. Room 327, Com- |
merce School.
7:30 p.m.—Mandatory meeting for all students wishing to participate in =
W&L’s study abroad in Soviet Union and Poland. Room 7, Newcomb .’
Hall. (For information, call 463-8912). on
8:30—11:30 p.m.—Faculty, staff and students will participate in a con-
trolled drinking experiment using Alco-Sensors to determine blood al-
cohol levels over a three hour duration. G.H.Q. ’
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: MEN’S SOCCER: Mary Washington
College; WOMEN’S SOCCER: Virginia Wesleyan.

Thursday, October 20
3 p.m.—COMPUTER SCIENCE COLLOQUIUM: ‘‘The Average — +
Postorder Tree and the Eulerian Numbers,’’ Thomas P. Whaley, W&L °
professor of computer science. Room 25, Robinson Hall. Refreshments *

at 2:30 in Room 21. Public invited. ay
6 p.m.—VOLLEYBALL: Generals vs. Sweet Briar/Ferrum. Warner | |
Center. f
7:30 p.m.—POLITICS FILMFEST: Ship of Fools. Room 327, Com- |
merce School.

8 p.m.—ELIZABETH OTEY LECTURE: ‘‘Federalism and Individual
Freedom: Remembering the Ratification,’’ Sandra Day O'Connor, Jus-
tice, U.S. Supreme Court. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

 

    
    
 
    
 
   

#159 S. Main St.

 

 

The Beauty Bar
Men’s and Wecaen! s Styling

463-2886

   
 

5 days/week

 

Lexington Lighting
& Electrical Supply

‘‘Shorter days = darker nights = a complete line of

 

studying lighting.’’
26 South Main Street
Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.
Lexington, Va. 24450-2523

MasterCard, Visa and Check Accepted

      
   
   
     
    
 

 

25 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

STOY, MALONE & COMPANY

. oS Arway Kirby =
&CO CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

(703) 463-9338

   

(703) 463-2566

 

 

 

 

 

Sseef

Hunan Garden
Restaurant

Rockbridge Square Shopping Mall
Behind McDonalds
Lexington, Virginia 24450

‘*Women in Law - Perspectives on Success”
Sponsored by WLSO Washington and Lee School of Law
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Welcome Alumni!

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1988

4:30-6:00
Informal Discussion: Women Graduates of 1975-1979 - *
Are They Now?”’ (Morris House)

‘Where

Visit The University Bookstore
Open on Saturday
From 10-4

The ArtCarved Class Ring
Representative will be here.

Open For Lunch & Dinner
Monday Thru Sunday
11:30 AM to 10:00 PM

463-3330
CARRY OUT

WH
aie

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1988
COCKTAILS - WINE - BEER We Honor
Major Credit Cards
1:00-3:00

Formal Panel Discussion: ‘‘Combatting the ‘Super-Woman Syn-

Balancing Family and a Legal Career’’ (Moot Court Room) —

  

drome’:

3:00-5:00

Picnic

Welcome

 

 

¥
