 

See overwhelming response

to Sessions

p.3

 

 

ne

polo/swimmer

describes W&L

p. 6

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

WASHINGTON ANDLEE

VOLUME 88, NO. 13

 

UNIVERSITY

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Seniors: A chance to speak out

on coeducation

p. 8

 

January 19, 1989

 

DK inducts 21

Honor fraternity recognizes leaders

 

By Chris Barade
Staff Reporter

 

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
honorary fraternity started here at
Washington and Lee in 1914 by a
group of twelve students, will tap 21
students and two honorary members
as part of the Founders Day celebra-
tion today. ODK is an organization
that seeks to recognize superior
leaders within the university, and in
the words of current ODK president
Marion ‘‘Moose’’ Herring, ‘‘It gets
campus leaders together to talk about
campus activities. ””

The names of the 21 new members
are a closely guarded secret, and
although the new members have
known who they are since Christmas,
they are not revealed publicly until the
actual ceremony today. The two
honorary members are William R.
Johnston, a 1961 graduate of W&L,
and Donald H. Baker, who was a
member of the Class of 1968.

Johnston is chairman of the board

and CEO of Agora Securities, Inc., in
New York, a member of the Wall

Street Club and executive vice presi-
dent and director of the Cancer
Research and Teaching Fund.

Baker is artistic director for Lime
Kiln Arts Inc., the center for the arts

EC mulls
CRC rules,
P.E.credits

By Genienne Mongno
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee reported
Monday night that the EC sub-
committee's discussion with Professor
Samuel J. Kozak about the E.C’s con-
cerns with the recently released Con-
fidential Review Committee (CRC)
Procedures was successful.

The E.C appointed the — sub-
committee, which met last Tuesday
with Kozak, who is head of the CRC,
because it had several questions con-
cerning the constitutionality of some
of the procedures

Specifically, the E.C. was worried
that the procedures did not allow for
cross-examination of the complainant
during a hearing, thereby infringing
on the right of those involved to due
process of law.

The sub-committee, which con-
sisted of E.C. Members Dan DuPre
and Dave Nave and E.C. Secretary
Eddie Yu, told Kozak that they
believed there needed to be a way for
students involved in a CRC hearing to
challenge what the witnesses say

Kozak said that although many of
the E.C.’s concerns with constitu-
tional problems were not valid in the
case of a CRC hearing, he would ac
cept a set of proposed guidelines for
the questioning of the accused.

DuPre said he would draft the
guidelines
In other business, E.C. President

Christopher deMovellan reported that
many W&L athletes are upset because
beginning next year they will only be
receiving one-fifth of a physical edu-
cation (P.E.) credit tor their participa-
tion in inter- collegiate sports. Cur-
rently the athletes receive two-fifths of
a credit

The new rule is meant to ensure that
an athlete will have to take a variety of
sports to satisfy his/her P.E. require
ment, said deMovellan.

deMovellan said he plans to talk
with Dean John Elrod and the Athletic
Committee about an alternate proposal
that will allow each athlete to receive
one credit for each inter- collegiate

sport played.

The E.C. also went over the
guideline reports of various organiza-
tions, submitted by E.C. Members

which will later be presented to the

Student Government Self-Study
Committee

deMovellan asked the I to ex
amine the Financial Relations Com
mittee 's proposed guidelines so they
next) weeks

can be discussed at

meeting

that he founded in Lexington i
These men are good example
pacesetters that ODK seeks to he

According to Herring. membersh

the organization comes in recogni
of leadership in five separate
categories These cate gor

scholastic achievement (all members

must be in the top 35% of their
athletics; social,
government,
journalism, speech and mass
and the creative and performins
Herring said *
faculty advisors take a computer |i
the top 35% of the rising seniors
spring semester and pick the |
to eight leaders. Then,
about ten more seniors
juniors get nominated.”
Christopher deMovellan,
ODK member, said ‘The cand
are for thei
qualities. It’s in the
members who are the outstan
campus leaders that will be

leadership — actis

selected

 

opinion Of

SAOSC

service and can

‘The ODK members

and five o1

Dean of Students Lewis John add

“We look to get propre who have

celled in each of the five area

also cited the minimum scholastic re

quirement as an area of confusior
students, saying
students who are fine leaders
the ODK.

that it keey

|
|
|
|

LEXINGTON, ¥IRC

|By Michael Tuggle
Staff Reporter

 

The Zeta Be
wnfir

  

 

the fraternity
nd of the [987-88

   

more than thi
¥) percent were

media
ned

ano

fir

-tuin Bhi

ZBT closes Wa

  
 

ieM lan stress that

\
HH

to take a bigger

in

In the past, according

Students Lewis John, it has
issions about topics
nor code, town-gown re
education. Herring said

We're trying to get leaders
meet on a bi-weekly basis.
with the minority
wiation to address some
and leadership sem-
hington and Lee and the

 

wmeern
one 1S

 

choed this, saying
and ODK,
d to get more active

ability

ie leader
lecide

dsa

as leaders

heip address things we as

to mecrease our
to help the school and

hing is the ODK hasn't
the past. We're trying to
and [| think
> to an action
recognition

IS NOW

pry al

that because juniors
the
cad of in the spring, as
ODK
through better on its

ZBT

 

tapped in winter

is now

past

What's next?

By Nick Thompson

Pel shi

 

Staff Reporter

ODK Initiates Registrar gives
annual report

HONORARY

William R. Johnston
Donald Baker

LAW SCHOOL

Marie]. B ,
J. Patrick Darby
John F. Hall, Jr.
H. Knox MeMillan

SENIORS

J. Wayne Burris

Reid T.

Donald S, Jackson
Mary Alice McMorrow
Jonathan I. Sheinberg
Shawn Copelalnd

House -

 

 
  
 
 
  
 
  

Kevin Kovesci.

The house at 220 E.
fraternity house, continues to be owned by ZBT’s national
organization and might be used to house a new ZBT chapter at
W&L next fall, according to ZBT National Housing Director,

Several requirements set down by W&L must be met before
a new chapter can be colonized. Kovesci said one of these re-
quirements includes the establishment of a ZBT alumni group
in Lexington, Although some ZBT alumni in Lexington have
shown interest in helping with a new chapter, Kovesci said no
definite plans have been made for the use of the house.

Kovesci said since coeducation has reduced the number of in-
coming freshman males at W&L, fraternities must choose from
a more competitive market.

it will be difficult for ZBT to establish a new chapter at W&L
and be successful, Kovesci said.

Nelson St., formerly the Zeta Beta Tau

By Elizabeth Parkins
Tri-Editor

Total opening enrollment for the fall
of 1988 increased an additional 3.5
percent to a record of 1,990. Combin-
ed with the lowest attrition rate ever; 3
percent, Washington and Lee con-
tinues to grow larger.

‘These statistics are part of an annual
report produced by the Registrars’ of-
fice. The report covers everything
from enrollment trends to number of
courses taught to number of degrees
awarded.

Some of the highlights for the 1987-
88 school year include: the percentage
of undergraduate grades of A or B
reached 67 percent for the first time
and failing grades reached a 25-year
low of 2.4 percent; the percentage of
graduates receiving honors was the
lowest in 17 years for undergraduates;
and 96 percent of the Class of °91
returned for their sophomore year.

Statistics found in the report provide
a look at what the average W&L stu-
dent is like. Of course, this represen-
tation is merely the highest percentage
of each category. A typical student

enrolling in 1988-89 is white, 94.3
percent (minorities-4.9 percent); with
no religious preference, 39 percent,
(Catholic-16.7 percent); from
Virginia, 413 students, (Maryland-
160); and majoring in history, 158
students or 18 percent, (economics-
113 students or 13 percent).

The report also points out that for
the size of W&L, the school offers
quite a few courses; in last year the
university offered 740 courses in
1 064 sections.

Of these courses, Calculus 101 was
the singular most popular class with
301 students enrolling. For those
students interested, Chinese provided
the most A+ grades with 28.1 per-
cent of all grades given out in ’87-°88.
Drama came in second with 13.2 per-
cent. Russian on the other hand, gave
out an F 10 percent of the time. Math
was a Close second with 8.7 percent of
the time.

Finally, if you've wondered just
where some of your classmates have
gone, 83 percent of the original Class
of °89 are still here, 89 percent of the
Class of °90, and 96 percent of the
Class of ‘91.

 

 

 

 

Grocery to op

 

at Lopes
Staff Reporter

 

 

A Harris Teeter supermarket
open for business in early Marc!
Nelson Street, offering

residents and W&L students a groc

shopping alternative
Harris Teeter is

number of proposed large sca!

stores opening for business 1

ington area. K-Mart

the first

and Food |

Lexing

are under construction on U.S. Ro

60. Walmart and another supermark

are under construction on U.S. Re

11

Harris Teeter will compet
Food Lion, Walmart) site mark
Kroger, Lexington Market and Whit
Front Supermarket) for the
customers served by existing
nesses

In addition, Harris Teeter is atte:
ting success where a similar busin
venture failed. The Harris |
building was formerly occup

Safeway, which went out of b

two years ago

Hn

u

nin

manage
mnt i that they will over
We feel we can
xd I mn the prices. We feel
at Kroger on the variety. We
beat both on the quality
up there will feel the
1 Ha ris Teeter Vice Presi
I R al Estate

e

i S

Teeter

 

We hone people
nd Construction
ent is also

becter managem

epending on their ability to cater to a

rural community
We operate — pretty
peration with a lot of

| Kendrick
ahOOd Case, a SeFVICE
epared foods, a deli,
inge of standard
ducts all at competitive
fered to. attract
faculty and area

t Lexington’s small
| h make I eX
onal American

 

lit
| 4
laced by

generic

t to be determined

March

The sudden increase in Lexington
retail space is not unusual, Kendrick
pointed out. *‘Over-saturating — the
market is happening all over the coun-
try. They [large scale, chain
storesJare going into markets that are
adequately served. People are
building better mousetraps,”’ he ex-
plained.

Meanwhile. Kroger, Lexington
Market and White Front Supermarket
are ready to face the new competition.

‘They're going to hurt you,’’ White
Front manager Sean More admitted.
“All you can do is hold on, Nothing
else you can do to combat it.’* More is
confident that their downtown loca
tion, delivery service and charge ac-
count service will keep them in busi
ness

A W&L alumni management con
nection furthered Harris Teeter’s Lex-
ington interests. Harris Teeter Vice
President of Marketing, Rush S
Dickson If, and their former Chair
man of the Board, Hugh G. Ashcraft,
Ir... both earned Bachelor \rts
degrees at WAL,

of

 

One more

choic

The following group grade

1988.

All Students

Seniors

Juniors
Sophomores
Freshmen
Degree Students

Fraternity
Non-Fraternity

Beta Theta Pi
Chi Psi

Delta Tau Delta
Kappa Alpha
Kappa Sigma
Lambda Chi Alpha
Phi Delta Theta
Phi Gamma Delta
Phi Kappa Psi

Phi Kappa Sigma
Pi Kappa Alpha

Pi Kappa Phi
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Sigma Chi

Sigma Nu

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Zeta Beta Tau

 

Statistics Table

point averages should be used

only for term-to-term comparisons and not for comparison of
individuals within the groups. They are based on the term and
kumulative grade points as of Dec. 20,
undergraduate students enrolled at the end of the fall term of

1988, of 1,613

Term GPA Cumulative GPA
2.860 2.819
3.014 2.869
2.843 2.773
2.856 2.803
2.752 2.702
2.909 3.064
2.722 2.701
3.031 2.980
2.656 2.654
2.612 2.678
2.644 2.594
2.848 2.838
2.830 2.746
2.919 2.903
2.568 2.6322
2.558 2.618
2.659 2.725

2.7791 2.6316
2.7787 2.754
2.811 2.637
2.634 2.648
2.763 2.790
2.800 2.790
2.819 2.565
2.865 2.775

 

 

MSA celebrates King

By Tina Vandersteel
Staff Reporter

 

All around the nation Sunday, the
Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was
remembered from the pulpit by fellow
clergymen on what would have been
the civil rights leader's 60th birthday

In Lexington, **Words and Music in
Celebration of the Life of Martin
Luther King Jr.’° was the theme of
this year’s Washington and Lee
Minority Student Association pro
gram, which took place Monday night
at the First Baptist Church on Main
Street

Lovida H. Coleman Jr
ton, D.C. lawyer whose — father
worked with King, recounted what
King’s life meant to her. The W&I
Glee Club and others sang spiritual
music at points throughout the hour-
and-a-half-long program

Coleman, speaking to an almost full
church, talked about the dedication,
accomplishments and *‘ultimate
sacrifice” of King. She described her
feelings when participated — in

The March,”* referring to the Aug

8, 1963 march in Washington, D.C

. a Washing-

she

Pic a> though we ail snared the
same exact exalted sentiments,’* she
said, before asking members of the
congregation to raise their hand if they
had also participated in the march

Seeing only one hand raised, Col-
eman said to the woman who stood
toward the back of the church, “It's
been a long time, sister.’

Coleman also took a firm stand for
affirmative action during her speech,
saying that a ‘‘more perfect union,”’
as is called for in the preamble to the
Constitution, could be achieved if
people would stop interpreting the
Constitution in terms of individual
rights

“This interpretation is rigid, un
imaginative and incorrect,’* she said,

before further justifying affirmative
action. Her final arguments came
from a quote from King, ** What helps
my community, if it is right, helps

me.’
Coleman concluded

with a sentimental
King. **
for him. Each of us is less without
him. The King is dead
dead. The King is dead

address
ot
I miss that man. Let us mourn

her
remembrance

The King
OPINION

Recognizing
male issues

Issues concerning the rights of women have pervaded the intellec-
tual climate of America throughout the 1980's. Date rape, abortion,
comparable worth, alimony and other female-sensitive topics have
been covered heavily by media, ranging from best selling books to
talk-shows. Everyone knows about female issues. They come up in
presidential debates, in the senate, in the courts, in civic meetings,
and in family debates. But what about men’s issues? If you’re the
average American citizen you probably never even heard of them.
You probably never heard of a 59-year-old Madison, Wisconsin,
resident named Roy Schenk either.

Schenk, who holds a masters degree from Columbia University,
has written two books on male issues (The Other Side of the Coin
and We’ve Been Had) and is the inventor of the ‘‘Dating Contract’’
which has been sent to college newspapers. He became interested in
men’s issues during the 1960’s when he first came into contact with
feminists who, according to Schenk, wanted the benefits of equal
rights but not the responsibility that comes with it. During a recent
telephone interview, Schenk explained to me his beliefs concerning
relationships between members of the opposite sex. -*

Schenk believes that women enjoy a psychological advantage
over men by introducing into the male subconscious a ‘‘shame of
maleness.’’ According to Schenk’s theory, women make men feel
inferior by establishing themselves as authorities in areas of per-
sonal behavior and hygiene. He believes that this socialization pro-
cess of ‘‘male shame’’ begins with young boys and their mothers
who force female values such as cleanliness on their sons. The fact
that the vast majority of advice columnists like Ann Landers, are
women is evidence to Schenk that women occupy this position of
superiority which leads to the unfair treatment of men by society.
Schenk furnished a few examples of what he believes is unfair
treatment of the male species:

We place less value on the life of men: 1) men - no women - go to
combat during war. Currently, 18-year-old men are required to
register for selective service, while women are exempt.

2) The percentage of female murderers who get the death penalty
is substantially lower than that of male murderers.

3) Men are expected to take riskier jobs than their female
counterparts. Of the approximately 7,000 people killed on the job
last year, over 6,000 were men.

Divorce and Custody:

Courts maintain a pro-female attitude in custody battles. While
men are usually punished for withholding child support payments,
page can eliminate the problem of date rape. The contract specfies

 

Developing countries’
external debt is rising

 

nations. Ten years later there are few
developing countries that don’t have
external debts in the billions of

MY VIEW

 

* ® dollars. Brazil is a good example. It

By Julie Kirk has over 100 billion dollars in external

debt and a year ago had to freeze a 700

In April of 1974 the United Nations million dollar interest payment for

concluded a special session by stating several months. I has become a net
the existence of an urgent need for exporter of capital.

new international economic order In 1980 developing countries paid

based on equity, equality between 16 billion dollars in interest payments,

nations, common interest and coop-
eration between states to correct the
inequalities and existing injustices in
the economic system and to eliminate
the drain between developed and de-
veloping countries. 1974, one year
after the first oil crisis, was a year

of which only 9 billion was reinvested
in the third world. This means that 7
billion dollars was removed from the
ailing economies of third world
nations. One wonders how such a
system can be sustained. Already
many countries have been forced to

when banks had petrodollars to spare _rescale their debts or freeze their in-
and non-oil producing third world terest payments, and such trends will
nations needed money to buy suddenly _ continue.

expensive oil. The special session of
the U.N. reflected the concern many
developing nations felt as they watch-

Do you remember the story about
the little Dutch boy who stuck his
finger in the dam? Well, developed

ed their external debt rise ever higher. nations have been sticking their
Yet, 1974 was only the beginning. fingers in dams for 15 years and are
In 1979 the second oil crisis coupled —_ about to run out of fingers. They don’t

with a rise in interest rates spelled fi-
nancial disaster for most third world

have enough money or enough time to
repair the dam.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1989

 

DATING CONTRACT

PREAMBLE: This contract is entered into by
woman involved, whose signatures appear
eliminate any possible misunderstandings
involvement during or following a date.

the man and
below, in order to
concerning sexual

It is the understanding of this contract thet
between the sexes is an important objective and desire of
both parties. To that end, there is no expectation § thet
either party will expend significantly more money or effort
than the other person without commensurate compensation.
Since sexuz: pleasuring is one of the important things that
men and wosen share with each other, this is acknowledged as
such @ compensation, and this contract is designed to
establish a fair agreement on the subject. To that end,

equality

IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED THAT:

1. It is the understanding of this contract that in
dating situations each party will pay their own way, and
that transportation will be provided alternately by each
party. When this occurs, it is the clear understanding of
both parties that no contract has been established to become
involved sexually; and neither perty has any right to
pressure the other person to be sexual.

Bost

2. Am agreement for one party to pay for this date and the
other party to pay for the next date is acceptable. In this

situation it is understood that the woman will pay for the
first date and the gan will pay for the second date, This
is recognized as a necessary compensation since

traditionally the wan has paid for the dates.

Reprinted from:

WE'VE BEEN HAD: Writings on Men's Issues.
$5.00 from Bioenergetics Press, Box 9141,
Madison, WI 53715.

3. In the event that the man pays for the date, except as

described in item 2 above, the man has the right to
determine if there will be sexual involvement during or
after the date, and the woman hereby assents to this

agreement. It is further agreed that the gan is responsible
to provide and to use condoms for safety.

4. In the event that the woman pays for the
except as described in item 2 above, she has
determine if there will be sexual involvement, and the san
hereby assents to this agreement. However, once such
involvement is started, the woman agrees that she does not
have the right to unilaterally stop. In this situation,
both parties will assume responsibility to provide condoas,
though it is presumed that only the wan will be responsible
for using them.

date, again
the right to

5. In the event that a date goes

poorly, the parties
mutually agree to not be sexual,

may
Alternately the non-paying

party may unilaterally withdraw by reimbursing the paying
party for the costs of the date.
6. This contract applies to this and to any further dates

between the parties involved.

Signature (woman)

 

Date
Signature (man)

 

ne. 126 DR. SCHENK'S DATING CONTRACT (rev-)

Conder Equality Lege) Bleak Co.
Redices. ¥I

 

 

women are rarely punished for denying their former husbands
court-prescribed visitation rights.

Dating is another area where Schenk feels men are treated unfair-
ly. Because men are no longer the sole wage earners, he thinks it is
unfair that they should be expected to pay for dutes. Any woman
who expects the man to pay is using ‘‘her sexuality to gain
something of significant monetary value’’ and, according to
Schenk, has entered an implied contract of prostitution. He believes
that this implied contract is a major source of date rape. In other
words, the male participant financially responsible for the date also
feels entitled to a sexual relationship.

Schenk believes another source of date rape stems from what he
calls Pre-Coital Stress Syndrome (PCS). PCS occurs when a man is
aroused during ‘‘intense sexual foreplay’’ to a point that he is com-
pelled to proceed even if the female resists. In Schenk’s opinion,
Pre-Coital Stress Syndrome is the male equivalent to the female’s
Pre-Menstrual Syndrome.

Therefore, he thinks it is sexist to condemn men who act inap-
propriately under the stress of PCS and commit date rape while ex-
cusing the violent acts committed by women under the stress of
PMS. Schenk believes dating contracts like the one reprinted on this

that if either party (male or female) is giving a significant amount of

time or money to the dating relationship, then that person, if they

desire, has the right to be compensated sexually. And naturally if
the parties split the cost of dating, then there is no sexual obligation
for either party.

Schenk’s dating contract was the subject of a recent Phil Donahue
talk show. He says the responses to the show have been very
positive: 250 people, 30 percent of whom are women, have re-

quested a contract and only eight people have responded negatively. »

Schenk describes these critics as either fundamentalist Christians or
MIFFS (Myopic Intolerant Fanatical Feminists).

Whether or not you agree with all of Schenk’s beliefs, you have "3
to admit that he brings up some very good points. The era of a.

man’s movement is fast approaching. While many characterize

Schenk as a chauvinist, he believes he is working towards true

equality between the sexes.

At Washington & Lee, the administration has gone out of its way |
to make students aware of female issues. Last year’s freshman °

class, for example, was required to attend a film and seminar on °

date rape. Perhaps in the future the administration will give male
issues some deserved coverage.

 

 

 
  
 
 

  

Che Ring-tum Phi
NEWS STAFF
Tr-EGUOPS ......cccssccrccccccccesccccccccccccccococscsecssccecccccssonscseescseoeees Elizabeth Parkins
Heidi Read
Nancy Whalen
Assignment Editor ........ssssssssssssseeesssssseesnessesensnsssessncsresssersessesees Eleanor Nelson
Sports Editor .......scsssessesssssssessssssenssessersesensessensseseeseesennsensenssnaeaneees Mike Shady
Entertainment Editor -Michael Tuggle
Layout Editor ............ -Brooke Jarabek
Photo EGOS .....ccccscesesccccsscescvcccccccccccecsccccscsessoesscssssesssasssssssscoos Cheryl Barrett
Paula Gregg
Copy Editor .....cccsscsseesseessessessesensesnssaseesnssssnsssessesseesesstecsseensenes Kelly Putney
OPINION PAGE STAFF
Editorial Page Editor ...........ssssscseseeesssesssresesseeccsssecscseeceserssseseesenseeeen Jon Sbar
Pamela Kelley
Mecccceceescrccesccccescsccccscccccccensascens OPN MGT
qensnasdss510511:ssresersenerssesencecsscsnaceosaceseoobbovenecssebessssssesessstrssssriesses Jeff Woodland
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager ......ccccccsssscccscscsscsssvosescevesssccccsssssssssesssseseces Christie Champlin
Assistant Business Manager ...........ccssssssesssersssssseceeeeesesseenceeeneeeseseners Fred Turpin
Advertising Manager .........:..sssscsssesssessseneseenssseceesncesensesseseeerenenees Anne Dysart
Circulation Mamager .........:cccssccsssesseessseseesesseeeseessssceeseesseseeseesenenens Karl Hanson

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year
at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room208 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to
The Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

Spiritual commitment essential to tradition

To the Student Body:

In my fifteen years of affiliation with Washing-
ton and Lee, I have often heard it said that
“‘tradition’’ is something integral and essential to
the greatness of our University. We have tradi-
tions of academic and athletic’ success, of the
Honor System, of student self-government, of
fraternities, and others. In the last few years,
however, I have heard students wondering about
some traditions that have apparently been under
closer inspection by the Administration. But none
of that is new.

While president of Washington College, Robert
E. Lee also tampered with a few hallowed tradi-
tions: he did away with a written code of conduct
and eliminated compulsory daily attendance in the
newly completed chapel. Yet honor did not erode
and attendance remained stable at the morning
prayer services.

During the fall term, several area churches and
campus ministers have attempted to rekindle the
tradition of communal Christian worship in the
Chapel by offering prayer services at 8 a.m. on
Wednesday mornings. The services, lasting twen-
ty minutes, will continue to be offered this term.
They have been sparsely attended -- this is at
times frustrating, but not discoyraging, for
“*.,,.whenever two or more are gathered...’’ At
the same time, I wonder whether the early hour
may be a bit ‘‘ungodly’’ for some, or whether
Christians today feel no spiritual need to pray as
part of a community? I also wonder what our Ad-
ministration has done to facilitate spiritual in-
quiry, discussion, and growth, as part of the Uni-

versity’s commitment to providing liberal arts ed-
ucation?

The late Thomas Merton once wrote that at a
university, one should be ‘‘...learning who one is,
and learning what one has to offer to the contem-
porary world, and then learning how to make that
offering valid.’’ The function of the university, he
continued, is to ‘‘...help men and women save
their souls, and in so doing to save their society.”’
Washington and Lee’s formal statement of institu-
tional philosophy, on page 10 in the Catalogue, is
quite similar. But are we doing all we can in learn-
ing and discovering who we are, or are we con-
cerned solely in getting the good job and making
big bucks?

In today’s cultural milieu, it appears that career
choices and individual careerism are the important
issues for students,-and W&L’s Office of Career
Development and Placement is doing an outstan-
ding job of advising, placing and guiding
students. For those students with emotional or
psychological concerns, the Dean of Students’ Of-
fice assists in counseling. Each student has a fa-
culty advisor who guides academic decisions, and
the Student Health Center handles issues of
health. However, why is there no one on this
campus, such as a Chaplain, to offer spiritual
guidance? Is this because it is just not being
offered, or is it because today’s college student
does not need or want to develop any spiritual
awareness?

There are many religious groups on campus,

the FCA, TVCF, Lampost, and others which

might benefit from the coordination and assistance

provided by a Chaplain’s office. A functioning
and active Chaplaincy, sponsoring religious and
ethical forums, would stimulate dialogue and in-
quiry into community issues and global concerns.
Interdenominational dialogue would be enhanced
among the various Western religious traditions, as
well as those of Asia. A Chaplain primarily
oriented toward the university community would
also be able to provide spiritual direction that may
or may not be available from the local churches.

If you, the members of the student body,
believe that your spiritual needs are not being ad-
dressed as part of your campus life, I urge you to
mention this fact to one of the Deans while the
University Self-Study and Long Range Planning
is winding down.

Washington and Lee is now enjoying a ‘‘Golden
Age’’: we have the best and brightest students
from all over the country, a dedicated and gifted
faculty, a physical beauty that will only be
enhanced by the new theatre and the rebuilding of
our fraternity houses, and alumni support that is
growing annually. We are in better shape mate-
rially than ever before. And yet I wonder, will we
be able to sustain all this if we neglect to do some
soul-searching and nourish the spiritual beauty
that has enriched our traditions for over two cen-
turies, and our society as a whole? I believe that
your views in identifying the spiritual needs of the
community are vitally important in planning for
the next generation of students. Do you agree?

Burr Datz (’75)
Catholic Campus Minister

Contact pays questionable speakers

Dear Editor:

Money talks. Lots of money brings speakers
like G. Gordon Liddy and Adolpho Calero to the
campus. Students at a university should be expos-
ed to divergent views. As a matter of the prudent
use of resources, however, it seems to me that
some thought should be given to where an au-
dience is likely to be on a point before hiring
criminals to come in and give lectures reinforcing

the arrogantly comfortable view of the world
already held by most of that audience. If the
CONTACT lecture series had done this, it is
doubtful Mr. Calero would have been selected.
The right of CONTACT to bring Calero here is
not at issue. The wisdom of that choice certainly
is. The News-Gazette issue reporting the schedul-
ing of Calero, also carried an article about a
young man who had lived and worked in
Nicaragua with Habitat for Humanity. It would

have been better for truth, for education, and for
justice if CONTACT had asked him to speak
without charge, but with the understanding that
the fat fee that will unfortunately be paid Calero
be diverted instead to help the civilian victims of
his ‘‘freedom fighters.’” That would have been a
neat idea.

William S. Geimer
Associate Professor of Law

Student finds sorority rush session insulting

In an attempt to keep an open mind about the
addition of sororities to the W&L campus, I at-
tended the Rush Information Session last week. I
must say that what I found surprised and, yes,
shocked me. If I had any doubts about sorority
rush, this particular presentation was not one to
relieve them.

I certainly do not mean to be disrespectful, but I
found the entire program to be an insult to the

W&L woman’s intelligence. Those who attended
will remember being told, in great detail, how to
pick out a ‘‘nice’’ outfit and how to present
oneself properly. I was not pleased to hear that an
individual is more attractive to one sorority if she
happens to be the legacy of a different sorority. I
was under the impression that this was an equal
opportunity for all W&L women. I have also
heard many women express the opinion that

waiting by your phone to be told on bid night you
will not be receiving a bid is not the most tactful
option.

In the future, I hope that these information ses-
sions will be upgraded to the quality level that all
WA&L students deserve.

Nancy L. Hickam
°89

 

 

 
OPINION

 

Dear Editor:

In response to Dr. William Lad Ses-
sion’s argument on the honor code and
the law, I contend that his argument is
based on a faulty premise. In sum-
mary, his argument states, (1), it is il-
legal to consume/possess alcohol
under the age of 21; (2) it is an honor
violation to break the law; (3)
therefore, it is an honor violation to
consume/possess alcohol under the
age of 21. First, assuming that Gen-
eral Lee personifies our-concept of
honor, unlawfulness cannot be a
honor violation per se. If unlawfulness
is dishonorable, then General Lee
would have breached our concept of
honor upon taking command of the
forces of the rebellion. Additionally,
General Washington broke British
laws, the law of his former country,
during the American Revolution.
Thus, I contend that the honor code
does not stress lawfulness.

Second, the spirit of the honor code
embodies General Lee’s statement
that ‘‘all students are to conduct them-
selves like gentlemen.’’ The rest of an
Aristotelian argument proceeds as
follows: some gentlemen drink and
some gentlemen do not drink, thus, all
gentlemen who drink do not violate
the honor code.

In my opinion, the honor code
should not concern itself with laws,
but rather with comraderie. Original-
ly, Lee’s mission for this institution
was to graduate gentlemen for the
purpose of rebuilding the South. Also,
the University was to remain a student
run institution. Thus, I contend that a
consensus of opinion among the
students ought to dictate University
policy so long as graduates remain
productive members of this country.
Standard and Poor’s found that W&L
graduates provide a_ significant
percentage (8th out of 430 collegiate
institutions) of top executives in major
American business firms. Sandi
Dudley’s interviews from
‘*Talkback’’ show that a sample of
students unanimously agree that the
honor code should not apply to under
age drinking. Taking these facts into
consideration, it’s obvious that the
honor code should not apply to under
age drinking.

- I may be wrong about this, but it
seems to me that the Administration
has used the honor code against the
students to enforce their rules. In the
process, the administration has
diminished the value of this Univer-
sity’s diploma. Fraternity rush regula-
tions are a perfect example of this. In
theory, the Interfraternity Council
plans rush. In practice, however, the
Interfraternity Council is a reactionary
committee. The administration tells
fraternities to follow their rules, and
mandates that fraternities police each
other. Coercion forces submission. To

Dr. Session’s point of
view, ‘‘it’s dishonorable to shun ’offi-
cial’ policy.’’ I speculate that the ad-
ministration’s coercive efforts are
often successful because they hold the
honor code over the heads of frater-
nities.

Tragically, the administration has
taken the planning function away from
fraternities and discouraged them
from solving their own problems.
More often than not, I hear fraternity
members talking about what solutions
the administration will approve, in-
stead of their own solutions. The
message to the fraternities is clear:
keep the lid on; the messenger with
bad news will be shot. Case in point,
the administration hung Delta Tau
Delta for a summer rush violation
without a trial.

I believe that the intentions of the
administration are good. However, I
am afraid that the administration is go-
ing to shoot itself in the foot. Planning
and problem solving are key executive
skills. Fraternities are a management

_ proving ground. I fear that taking

these executive skills out of the hands
of fraternity members will diminish
the effectiveness of graduates in the
real world,

To remedy this situation, I believe
the administration needs to imbue
students with General Lee’s concept
of honor - ‘‘all students shall conduct
themselves like gentlemen.’’ Passing
unpopular laws and rules is not effec-
tive. Shared values, on the other hand,
like honor and fraternity life, bind
together the fabric of all successful,
enduring institution. Values act as tie
breaker in gray situations. Laws
delineate black and white. Life, in
general, is gray. Likewise, life at
W&L is gray. Consequently, instead
of passing rules piecemeal, one by
one, if the administration could imbue
students with General Lee’s concept
of honor, a lot of other problems
might begin to fall of their own
weight.

Very respectfully,
Mark A. Robertson

_ Students respond to
Sessions’ views on law and honor

 

 

To the Editors:

I would like to respond to Professor
Sessions argument that ‘‘it is
dishonorable to knowingly break the
law’’ and that consequently ‘‘any
W&L student under 21 who pur-
chases, possesses or consumes any
alcoholic beverage is dishonorable.”
Professor Sessions says that he would
be pleased to learn from the readers of
the Phi how they would ‘‘deal’’ with
this argument.

What Prof. Sessions’ ‘‘argument’’
lacks is a basic understanding of the
purposes of the law and what is meant
by honorable. The law is a conduct-
regulating device, not an instrument to
define moral or honorable standards.
An honorable person is one who
adheres to a certain moral standard of
conduct, which may or may not be in
accord with the law’s provisions.

It is no more dishonorable to know-
ingly consume alcohol while under 21
than it is to knowingly park your car
illegally. Both are illegal. Yet no one
would sanction expulsion for receiv-
ing one of Murph’s calling cards.

I understand that the end result of
my argument is that it is not necessari-
ly dishonorable to break the law. But
isn’t this what Christ, Ghandi, and
Martin Luther King, Jr. coricluded
also?

Donald Schultz
Law ’89

To the Editors:
I would like to respond to Professor
Sessions’ letter concerning under-age
consumption of alcohol which ap-
peared in your most recent issue. Pro-
fessor Sessions opens his argument by
stating that ‘‘it is dishonorable know-
ingly to break the law.’’ He then states
that all W&L students know that it is
illegal to ‘‘purchase, possess, or con-
sume”’ alcohol if one is under age 21.
Based on the above statements, Ses-
sions concludes that ‘‘any W&L stu-
dent who purchases, possesses, or
consumes any. alcoholic beverage is
dishonorable. ’’
There are at least two ways to dis-
count Sessions’ entire argument and
therefore his conclusion as well. Both
of these methods center around his
first statement: ‘‘it is dishonorable
knowingly to break the law.”’ First, I
question Sessions’ association bet-
ween law and honor. Several years
| AZO the legal drinking age was 18.

Then the lawmakers, in their great
wisdom, determined that one should
be 19 before he/she could legally
drink alcohol. Most recently, the
drinking age was raised to 21. As the
drinking laws fluctuate, does honor
also fluctuate? Certainly not! Honor
concerns personal integrity: it has
nothing to do with civil laws. A law

 

Dear Editors,

In your last issue, you published an
argument given by Prof. Sessions that
drinking under the age of 21 is
dishonorable. There is one fallacy
committed in this argument, that what
Prof. Sessions considers dishonorable
is what the students consider
dishonorable. Prof. Sessions gen-
eralizes that the breaking of all laws is
dishonorable. This generalization
makes the argument all or nothing. If
we make one exception to the rule, the
entire argument is forfeit.

Prof. Sessions does not claim that
drinking while under age is an honor
violation. The Phi does this in their
‘*Talkback’’ section.

The White Book states that the stu-
dent body shall decide what is and
what isn’t an honor violation. I doubt
anyone will argue that drinking while
under-age is an honor violation, just
as no one would argue that speeding is
an honor violation. Therefore, Prof.
Sessions’ argument seems just a good
way to bait the students into discus-
sion of the ideas of under-age drink-
ing.

I don’t feel that Prof. Sessions’
letter was an attempt to influence the
honor system and, unless the faculty
decides to take control of the honor
system away from the students, Prof.

 

 

 

 

 

 

This past week Professor Sessions
raised a question which could have se-
rious ramifications for W&L and
which should not be taken lightly. The
Professor postulated that since it is
‘*dishonorable knowingly to break the
law’’ that ‘‘any W&L student under
21 who purchases, possesses or con-
sumes any alcoholic beverage. is
dishonorable.’’ The obvious implica-
tion of his argument is that it is (or
should be) an honor violation for
minors to drink alcohol. Unfortunate-
ly, however, Dr. Sessions has confus-
ed the notion of honesty, as it has
functioned at W&L since General
Lee’s presidency, with the notion of
that which is honorable or worthy of
respect.

The ‘‘White Book’’ very clearly
states that the honor system is based
on the assumption that ‘‘persons at-
tending W&L will not lie, cheat or
steal.’’ Thus, the basis of our system
is a ‘‘mutual trust’? between W&L
students and everyone we encounter.
Whereas it may or may not be true
that it is wrong for minors to drink, it
is not dishonest. Drinking by minors
may not increase their réspectability,
but it certainly does not involve any
deception. No one has taken an oath
not to drink or break the law, we have
promised that we will not lie, cheat or
steal. By drinking the student is not
denying ‘‘responsibility for his own
conduct,’’ but he is violating a civil
statute which the honor system was
never intended to enforce.

By an extension of the Professor’s
reasoning, breaking the speed limit or
jaywalking should also be considered
honor violations since the offender
knowingly broke the law. It would be
a devastating misinterpretation of
Lee’s intention in establishing the
Honor System to turn it into a legal
code. The General rejected the nu-
merous regulations and restrictions
which existed at Washington College
in 1865 and replaced all of them with
the simple idea that each man was to
act as a gentleman. He wanted to
create a community of trust, not of
legalism. Lee did not want to restrict
the students, but he wanted them to be
forced to accept the consequences of
their own action; the consequences of
lying, cheating or stealing have been
dismissal from the university since
that time. But, he certainly never in-
tended the system to become a police
code -- that was just what he wanted to
get rid of.

I, for one, would hate to see the
Honor System destroyed by turning it
into an unenforceable, legalistic,
petrified code. It is all too easy to con-
fuse specific and variable legalism
with those transcendent qualities of
true honor which are permanent and
immutable. The more you try to
stretch a system, the more apt it is to
break.

George C. Nomikos Class of '91

 

 

(1) No one cares what philosophy
teachers think about our Honor
System.

(2) Mr. Sessions is a philosophy
teacher.

(3) Therefore, no one cares what
Mr. Sessions thinks about our Honor
System.

Philosophically Yours,

Joseph C. Kavanagh ’89

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

RESPONSE

 

let hE ie nats

 

 

 

passed by Congress and the President
does not instantly alter the integrity of
230 million Americans. Anyone who
suggests otherwise devalues honor
completely; honor is changed from a
code to live by into a variable con-
trolled by a handful of men and
women in Washington, D.C.

This brings me to my second point.
I contend that it is not dishonorable
knowingly to break the law. Aside
from civil law there is a higher law.
This ‘‘higher law’’ is established on
an individual basis; it is the system of
morals which each individual estab-
lishes for himself/herself. When civil
law conflicts with the higher law of
personal morals, one must follow
his/her personal morals but be willing
to accept the consequences for break-
ing the civil law. For example, I do
not feel that it is wrong for me, a col-
lege freshman, to drink alcohol. But if
I am arrested I must accept the conse-
quences since I have broken the law
that the police have sworn to uphold.
Therefore, based on the above points,
I feel that Professor Sessions’ conclu-
sion is false since his opening point is
invalid.

Howeéver, Professor Sessions’ letter
has recalled to my mind another issue
concerning alcohol and the Honor
Code. During Freshman Orientation
we were introduced to the Honor
Code by the Executive Committee.
One question that was repeatedly dis-
cussed was the use of fake IDs. The
EC emphasized that by using a fake
ID one was playing an active role in
misrepresenting himself/herself. But
instead of stopping there, the EC (at
least some members) offered us other
ways to obtain alcohol. In fact, the
scene became so ludicrous in the small
group meeting I attended that the EC
member presiding even offered to buy
alcohol for us if we needed it. I realize
that seniors often buy alcohol for
those who are under 21 (and thank
God that they do), but it didn’t seem
appropriate for an EC member to
offer to buy us all alcohol during our
first two days at school. My point is
that the introduction to the Honor
Code could have been titled *‘How to
Beat the System.”’ I realize that this
paragraph is a total ‘‘add-on’’ and
doesn’t follow the rest of my letter but
I feel that it is important that the EC
not make the same error again next
year.

Trent Merchant
Class of ’92

 

 

Talkback will be run next week due to a lack of space

 

 

Sessions’ ideas on honor need not
concern the honor system. Maybe one
day the students attending Washington
and Lee will make under-age drinking
an honor violation, but I don’t believe
that the present generation of students
is willing to accept that yet.
Samuel H. McLane, II

ding of the philosophy behind the
University’s Honor System. Should
he wish to enlighten himself, copies of
the White Book are available in the
registrar's office.

Fred Turpin 90

oe SS See
To the editors:

Professor Sessions’s syllogism
points to the transformation of the
honor system at W&L. In Lee’s time
the honor code required that every
student act as a gentleman. Since the
system originally included all student
behavior, Professor Sessions’ logic
might have held true under the first
understanding of W&L’s honor
system. I don’t believe, however, that
Professor Sessions wants to use the
present honor code to prohibit drink-
ing. Rather, I think he wants to
highlight the gap between how we
speak about the honor system and how
we apply it.

The idealized Lee-era honor code
that Professor Sessions’s argument
assumes exists only in the words of
admissions brochures, EC seminars,
and students’ egos. The current stu-
dent generation has (within its rights)
chosen to interpret the honor system
rather narrowly. We have effectively
reduced the honor code to three rules:

1) One may not lie to a member of the
faculty concerning course re-
quirements at W&L.

2) One may not cheat on academic
work at W&L.

3) One may not steal in Rockbridge
county.

Still, despite our narrow interpretation
of the honor code we insist on
boasting about it as if it were as broad
as the honor code of 130 years ago.
We want it both ways. We want the
prestige and freedom our honor
system affords us without the danger
that too much of our behavior might
be deemed ‘‘dishonorable.”’

Until we begin talking about the
honor code as narrowly as we have
defined it, Professor Sessions, and
others in league with him, will con-
tinue to delight in rubbing our noses
into the inconsistencies our preten-
tious rhetoric has created within our
own honor system.

Sincerely,
David Emrich, ’89
we ee

 

 

[Class of ’89

This letter is intended to defend the
honor of Washington and Lee students
who consume alcohol while under 21
years of age. Their honor was called
into question in the January 11 edition
of the Ring-tum Phi by Professor
William Ladd Sessions.

Dr. Sessions contends that since
consumption of alcoholic beverages
by individuals under 21 is illegal, then
those individuals who are not 21 and
consume alcohol are dishonorable.
This method of argument makes
legality a strict determinant of honor,
but in reality there is no direct correla-
tion between honor and what is legal.
Is Dr. Sessions prepared to accept that
the sole criteria for dishonor be il-
legality? Is action honorable just
because there exists no written law to
deter it?

Law cannot be set up as the measure
of honor. Many individuals generally
considered dishonorable have never
been charged with breaking the law.
Many honorable men such as Robert
E. Lee, who lost his citizenship, his
personal property and his right to
vote, have suffered sanction under the
law. Law resembles honor just as it
resembles justice, but contending that
law is honor is as ridiculous as believ-
ing law is justice.

The philosophy of the Washington
and Lee Honor System reflects this
distinction between law and honor.
Our Honor System ‘‘is not a compila-
tion of student regulations. Rather, the
system is in essence one of mutual
trust among students, faculty, admin-
istrators, and townspeople.... The
Honor System is not intended to
govern minor infractions of the Uni-
versity’s or society’s regulations, but
only acts that indicate a student is not
worthy of trust by his or her peers’’
(philosophy section, White Book.)
The Washington and Lee Honor
System does not rely on laws, ‘‘the
System applies to any conduct con-

sidered dishonorable by the student
generation involved’’ (enforcement

section, White Book.)

Given the stated structure of our
System, its past success, and obvious
incongruity with written law, there is
only one explanation for Dr. Sessions’
challenge. He simply lacks understan-

An argument which appeared in the
January 12 issue of the Ring-tum Phi
claimed to prove that ‘‘Any W&L
student under 21 who purchases,
possesses, or consumes any alcoholic
beverage is dishonorable.’’ This
argument is invalid because of the ex-
treme weakness of its first premise,
which states, ‘‘It is dishonorable
knowingly to break the law.’’ Did
Martin Luther King, Jr. act
dishonorably when he knowingly
broke and lead others to break
segregation laws in the 60’s? In other
words did our country just celebrate
the birthday of a dishonorable man?
Consider this case. A driver runs a
traffic light in order to rush a dying
child to a hospital. Although the
driver has consciously broken a law,
he has not acted dishonorably. As the
two aforementioned cases prove,
there is no necessary connection bet-
ween personal honor and obedience to
the law. For this reason, the premise
“It is dishonorable knowingly to
break the law’’ is false. As any pro-
fessor of philosophy knows, any
argument which assumes a false
premise commits the fallacy of
‘suppressed evidence’’ and _ is,
therefore, invalid.

Bryant J. Spann

 

Class of °91

 

 

ie eae ta
To the Editors:

In response to the argument
presented by Professor Sessions in last
week’s Phi, I wish neither to accept
nor to refute his premise that underage
drinking is dishonorable, for I believe
that the professor has raised a much
more serious issue which could have
an even larger impact on the Washing-
ton and Lee community. By not
distinguishing between that which is
illegal according to society and that
which is dishonorable according to the
Honor System as established in the
White Book, Professor Sessions has il-
luminated the greatest danger that our
university faces in its struggle to main-
tain a viable Honor System that can
remain an integral part of Washington
and Lee. The White Book is intended
to reflect a moral and ethical code of
values, not simply a legal code, and to
confuse the two could jeopardize the
future of the Honor System.

Surely other students will ask 1
such offenses as parking on Washing-
ton Street for more than two hours,
“doing 35 in a 25mph zone,"’ or
jaywalking should be considered
honor offenses. Consider, however,

the flip side of that argument by
following a hypothetical situation. If a
student is caught during a test with an
outline of the material on both
forearms, he is guilty of an honor
violation (assuming he was reading his
forearms, of course) and should be
forced to withdraw from the univer-
sity. To my knowledge, however,
there is no law on any local, state, or
federal level which could be used to
convict this student of a crime. The
questions then multiply: should the
Honor System apply only to those
“crimes Which are both
dishonorable and illegal? Should
members of the Executive Committee
be bound by legal codes when enforc-
ing this system? If so, is the E.C., a
majority of whose members have had
no legal training, equipped to do the
job that we elected them to do? If the
answer is no, should the Honor
System still be run by students?

A review of last year’s White Book
Revisions Committee reveals that the
subject of legality and its role in the
Honor System led to much heated dis-
cussion, especially in view of such
problems as date rape, a crime both il-
legal and immoral. To extend the
jurisdiction of the E.C. beyond those
matters involving lying, cheating or
stealing, however, would have two
consequences: first, it would create an
unmanageable task for the E.C.,
which would be forced to determine
which criminal offenses should be
considered dishonorable; second and
more importantly, it would ignore the
original intent of the Honor System,
which is stated explicitly in the
preamble of the White Book:

The Honor System of Washington
and Lee is based on the fundamental
principle that a spirit of trust pervades
all aspects of student life. The spirit of
this trust is one of principal features
that makes Washington and Lee a
unique education institution. (page 1)

Professor Sessions, underage drink-
ing - no matter how prevalent - is
against the law, and it may be con-
sidered immoral and even
dishonorable in the eyes of society. I
believé, however, that underage
drinking cannot be considered
dishonorable in the spirit for which
our Honor System was created. That
spirit does make Washington and Lee
unique, and the Honor System that
fosters that tradition must not be
threatened by suggesting that the
system’s original intent should be ig-
nored in order to stop 20-year olds
like myself from drinking. Put the
cuffs on me and take me to jail, but
don’t kick me out of school.

Thank you for your time.

John Touchton

Class of 1990
se Be See

Dear Editor:

Alas, the staff pharisee of the
philosophy department and _self-
appointed chairman of W&L’s
temperance committee, W.L. Ses-
sions, has remounted the soap-box
once again, while the good old boys of
our fraternities have another time
reaffirmed how woefully retarded
their own conception of honor re-
mains. The good doctor Sessions,
rooted firmly in the idealism of Kant
and Hegel, sees honor as some exter-
nal object monolithic and unchanging
as his own narrow mind; he not only
fails to see that willfully breaking the
law can often be a testimony to one’s
honor (hence, the civil disobedience
of Thoreau, M.L. King, Ghandi and
many anabaptists who languish in jails
due to their refusal to comply with
laws they feel would dishonor them),
but also that an unenforceable law is
not a law at all -- it is merely a dilatory
piece of scrivening that has been lob-
bied into the law books. Thus, Dear
Ladd Sessions’ logic is as usual, in-
fallible, but his premises are com-
pletely flawed. The Greek response is
even more disenheartening: They
would reduce honor to a mere system
of not lying, cheating, or stealing. To
quote one of them, ‘‘It should not
interfere anywhere else.’’ Applying
this sort of code is merely a sham, a
set of rules to disguise a dishonorable
man underneath compliance with a
system of honor.

As Lao Tzu notes, ‘‘Great Virtue is
not Virtuous” -- it is virtue that comes
from within, living within the spirit of
honor, not abiding in the letter of
honor, that can truly be called
honorable. In fact, it is a shame that
Mr. Sessions and the Greeks are not
on better terms; they both reduce
honor to a mechanical, small-minded
adherence to written rules for
behavior -- except that Dr. Sessions
uses this code for self-flagellation,
whereas the Greeks use it for self
punishment of a more pleasurable
form. If this is all our time-honored
tradition at W&L can _ produce,
perhaps we should bury it along with
its esteemed founder in the chapel.

He Yong-de
Class of *89
NEWS

 

Eating clubs:
One alternative

By Melinda Conkling
Staff Reporter

 

Alternatives to sororities as a social
outlet for women were discussed
Monday night in the GHQ. Approx-
imately forty women attended the
meeting, which was held to gauge
female interest and exchange ideas for
an alternative social outlet.

The most popular response, eating
clubs, could be started within two
weeks. ‘‘At least in the beginning
stages of the eating club project, per-
sonal commitment will be implicit for
the group to succeed,”’ stated junior
Mary Alice McMorrow. The eating
clubs will be held on campus, at least
temporarily, at competitive rates.
Eating clubs will be a casual, non-
exclusionary group for those who
have social needs to which sororities
cannot respond.

Sophomore Mary Hampson presid-

ed over the meeting and members of
the fourteen person steering com-
mittee fielded questions from the au-
dience. These questions concerned
eating club facilities, charity pro-
grams, conflicts of interest, expecta-
tions, and long- term planning.

According to Hampson, ‘‘We’re go-
ing to try to be very casual, very
flexible, and willing to adapt to group
needs. We can make this whatever we
want and that’s the beauty of it,
whether it’s only three of us or if we
grow to sixty people.”’

The committee is preparing a pro-
posal to the university so that several
members can travel to various institu-
tions and learn about their social
alternatives to sororities.

All women interested in joining an
eating club should be aware of future
flyers or contact Heather Midkiff ’92,
Mary Hampson ‘91, Mary Alice
McMorrow °90, or Laura Hoopes
*89.

PE credits change

By Heather M. Midkiff
Staff Reporter

 

The physical education department
has reevaluated its policy on the re-
quired P.E. credit.

After having met eight times in the
fall in order to do a self-study on the
physical education department, the
coaches decided to allow only one-
fifths credit of the five-part physical
education requirement for those
students participating in an_ inter-
collegiate sport. This number has
decreased from the former credit of
two-fifths.

The decision was brought about
after the coaches reevaluated their ob-
jectives; one of which stated the pur-
pose of the physical education
department as being ‘‘To develop
basic motor skills through a wide
variety of activities.”’

Nobody in Southwest Virginia
sells more eyewear.

 

2. Egg Roll

[G)
(G) Ea}

   

ON CONTACTS.

Clear vision is essential to your success in college. Of course,
you want to look your best, too. But we know that college
expenses can put you in a budget squeeze. That's why we're
offering students $20.20 off the price of a new fitting of contact
lenses (exam and both lenses).

Just present this ad and a valid college 1.D. at the time you
place your optical order. You'll have 31 days to try your lenses.
If you're not satisfied, simply return them for a refund or
replacement. Offer expires February 28, 1989.

| year,
pu Bley emres,
Bleed | Gi.

Athletic Director Bill McHenry said
the former credit of two-fifths for par-
ticipation in an inter-collegiate sport
““does not meet the objectives. We
aren’t being fair to students that way --
we need to offer them a wide variety
of activities.”’

Coach McHenry said that some
students in the past were not attemp-
ting to vary their activities. For exam-
ple, he said one student participated
on the water polo team, the swimming
team, and took lifesaving for the other
part of his credit.

‘*He never got his body out of the
water -- this doesn’t meet the objec-
tives of the department,’’ he said.
*‘We want students to learn new
lifelong activities.”’

The recommendation for the change
has been submitted to the Dean of the
College; if approved, it will go into
effect for the 1989/90 freshman class.

112 Walker Street
Lexington, VA 24450

463-1600

 

Offer not good on prior purchases or in combination with other discounts or offers.

HUNAN GARDEN, RESTAURANT

All You Can Eat “SUNDAY BUFFET” - 11:30 A.M. - 3:00 P.M.
Introductory Offer —- Adults - $5.95 © 8-12 - $2.99 « Under 7 - Free
463-3330 - Reservations Welcome

January 22, 1989
1, Chicken & Corn Soup

3. Sliced Pork with Cucumber
4. House Fried Rice

5. Vegetable Lo Mein

6. Sweet & Sour Meatball

7. Cashew Nuts Chicken

8. Subgum Shrimp

9. Fruit Dessert

10. Fortune Cookies

The Ring-tum Phi,

By Genienne Mongno
Staff Reporter

Soviet playwright and stage director
Anatoly Antokhin said Tuesday that
he believes the problems facing
Mikhail Gorbachev’s Russia today are
rooted in Russia’s history.

‘We must compare the present to
the past so we will understand what is
going on with Gorbachev's Russia to-
day, *’ Antokhin told about 140 peo-
ple in Northen Auditorium at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

Antokhin said the Russian state of
the 19th century was based on three
concepts: czarism or the idea of total
power for one man, the beliefs of the
Greek Orthodox Church which never
challenged the Czar, and the idea of
nationalism.

The late 19th century was a time of
transitions and confusions and accor-
ding to Antokhin, there was ‘‘no new

apparatus to implement this power.”’

He said that there were two schools
of thought after the Bolshevik Revo-
lution which marked the beginning of
Soviet history. The first saw the
Soviet regime as bringing no changes
and the second saw Russian history of
the 20th century as a dramatic break

By Tina Vandersteel
Staff Reporter

Works by Soviet artist Tamara
Kirimova are on display as part of
a Russian symposium held in
Washington and Lee University’s
Northen Auditorium.

Antokhin said Kirimova’s works
are part of a new era of ‘‘socialist
realism’’ in art that has come about
with the new reforr1s in Soviet pol-
icy regarding freeiom of expres-
sion.

Complete artistic freedom,
however, Antokhin said, ‘‘can not
come about until sufficient distance
is placed between the individual
and the state.’’ In order to have
freedom of expression, he con-

 

 

January 19, 1989

Antokhin talks on Russia

from the 19th century.

“In my view both are right, ’’ An-
tokhin said.

According to Antokhin, in the 20th
century the Communist party has
replaced the czar, the Communist ide-
ology has replaced the Orthodox
Church and sovietism has replaced
nationalism.

The ideas may have changed but the
structures have remained the same,
Antokhin said. He said he believes
that this is the same problem Gor-
bachev faces as he tries to carry .out
his perestroika policy.

‘*There is very little chance he will
succeed because he is going back to
the same model, *’ said Antokhin, ex-
plaining that while Gorbachev's pol-
icy is supposed to be introducing the
nation to a western model, he is trying
to implement it using ‘‘the same old
machine.”’

He said reforms implemented by the
Communist Party can only be done
half way because the ideology of the
party is still opposite.

“In my view, the only way they can
have a possibility of real changes is if
they can return back to the time when
they tried real reform,’ said An-
tokhin.

The solution is not a simple one,

Russian artist’s work on display

tinued, the artist must have a sense
of personal property.

Political censorship still slows
the new movement in Soviet art.
Antokhin said before Kirimova
went abroad, her art works were
given an arbitrary price by the
Soviet government. The art was
then taxed at 100 percent of this
price so that any art work
Kirimova sells while abroad will
be taxed on 75 percent on the
profits.

“So in order for there to be ar-
tistic freedom, one must first have
economic freedom,’’ Antokhin
concluded about Kirimova’s work.

Nineteen paintings, tapestries
and batiks were put on display in
the University Library and will
remain there until Jan. 26. Accor-

 

and in many ways perestroika ‘‘will
succeed and never succeed at the same
time,’’ Antokhin said. He added that
the struggle with the structures will
give the people time to have a real
revolution, a ‘‘revolution of the
mind. *’

“‘Changing within people’s minds,
that will be the real change. In that
sense. perestroika will have
succeeded, *’ he said.

Antokhin is a graduate of the State
Institute of Cinematography in
Moscow. As both a Communist Party
member and intellectual, he struggled
to introduce dissent within the recog-
nized Soviet institutions long before
the advent of the Gorbachov ad-
ministration. He defected in 1980 but
remains an important bridge between
nationals inside and emigrees outside
the U.S.S.R.

Antokhin’s lecture was the first part
of a two part symposium sponsored by
the Russian Studies Program at W&L.
The second part of the symposium
was an art exhibit by Soviet artist
Tamara Kirimova which followed the
lecture.

Both the lecture and the exhibit
were funded by the Andrew W.
Mellon Foundation Grant in Russian
Studies.

ding to a listing of the works given
at the display, these works span ten
years of the artist’s creative life.

“They together represent a
major step beyond socialist realism
in the visual arts,’’ the listing said.
**As such, they constitute an im-
portant bellwether of the larger
changes” now struggling to take
hold in Soviet society.”’

Kirimova is a rising star among
the new. generation of Soviet ar-
tists, according to Craig Mc-
Caughrin, a politics professor at
W&L, and the organizer of the
symposium. Kirimova is currently
living and working in Moscow.

Kirimova has made all the works
in the exhibit available for sale.
For further information about the
works, call (703) 343-8329.

 

 

  

    
 
 
   
   
   

to The Ring-tum Phi are due in our office by noon on Tuesday
of the week they are to

ts

See you there!

  

A ti

aT)

All Undergraduate Students are invited for dinner
and Bible Study in the Parish Library of R.E. Lee Epis-
copal Church this Sunday, January 22, at 6:00 p.m.

    

 

Die {

mely re

ALL submissions

ni

 

 
   

  

Site

BD]

 

  

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

     
   
       
     
 

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

January 29, 1989
1. Hot Sour Soup (no meat)

2. Egg Roll
3. House Fried Rice
4. Vegetable Lo Mein

5. Sweet & Sour Chicken & Pork

6. Shrimp Bean Curd

7. Chicken with Mushrooms
8. Beef and Pork with Celery

9. Fruit Dessert
10. Fortune Cookies

HARDWARE STORES ©
Hardware, Paint & Related Items

Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
Sun. 1-5

       
 
      
   
 

   

[5]
1 LENS]

minder.

be run.

    
  
    
   

= broadcasts

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

 

Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

 

 

23 N. Main St.
(703) 463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

Lectures on:
Jackson,
Lee, held

From Staff Reports

 

Two lectures on Robert E. Lee
and Stonewall Jackson will be

presented Friday, Jan. 20, at Wash-
ington and Lee University. The lec-
tures, which are part of Lexington’s
three-day birthday celebration honor-
ing the two Confederate generals, will
begin at 4 p.m. in the University
Library's Northen Auditorium. The
lectures are sponsored by the Wash-
ington and Lee News Office and are
open to the public.

I. Taylor Sanders, professor of
history at W&L and the university's
historian, will give a talk entitled,
‘‘When Lee Came Back to Lex-
ington.’’ This is a discussion of what
Robert E. Lee would see, and how he
would feel about the city and univer-
sity, if he came back to Lexington to-
day. Lee, whose birthday is Jan. 19,
was president of Washington College
(later named Washington and Lee
University) for five years after the
Civil War.

Following Sanders’ talk, Michael
Lynn, director of the Stonewall
Jackson House, will present ‘‘When
Jackson Came Back to Lexington.’’
Jackson lived in Lexington for a
decade before the Civil War. His bir-
thday is on Jan. 21. Both Confederate
generals are buried in Lexington.

A reception will follow the talks in
the Boatwright Room of the Library.

WLUR
broadcasts
Met Opera

By Lori Richardson
Staff Reporter

 

Direct from the Metropolitan
Opera House, WLUR is broadcasting
22 Saturday afternoons in a row of
live opera, including works by greats
such as Wagner, Verdi and Puccini.

WLUR is receiving the weekly
from. the, Texaco-
Metropolitan Opera Radio Network,

which is sponsoring five months of the

live programs in 1989. Generally the
broadcasts begin at 1 p.m. and con-
clude at 5 p.m., depending on the

B length of the performance, according

to Texaco-Metropolitan.

“These broadcasts are something
we really love to do,’’ said Chris
Casey, director of operations at
WLUR. ‘‘The network usually
charges a $6,000-$10,000 fee to tap
in. But because WLUR is non-
commercial, and an educational
operation, the fee is waived and we
can do it,”’ he said.

WLUR receives these broadcasts by
way of a satellite dish on the roof of
the university’s undergraduate
library, said Paul Merchant, who
monitors some of the shows.

‘*Usually there is no problem with
the broadcast, except when snow or
ice gets on the satellite dish and makes
Static."’ There is now a defroster on
the satellite, added Merchant.

The final 1989 broadcast will air on
April 29, according to Texaco-
Metropolitan.

TYPING SERVICE
USING PC WITH IBM WORDPERFECT

BEVERLY OFFICE SERVICES

(703) 464-3092

Reasonable Rates
Professional References
Overtime Service Available
Special Rates For Extended Projects

 

 

 

    
   
 

 

, as

 

RAPHICS

 

 

 

 

 
 

is consists of three different Part Soviet home version is
Rockbridge Circuit Court j udge the “anne ac on avi ce nn preg = st purpose of our Drug spdiee: a five week formal session, shortened especially for American
» Honorable George C. Honts, criminal Orbaugh told the audience about his . them stood by - Gah aie Awareness Week is for students to an individual internship, and a viewers, thus accelerating the pace
| investigator Doug Orbaugh, drug activities in the Rockbridge area as &” some of them I’m still trying to win consider the temporary and long-term graduation session. Nearly all the of the plot. See Prof. Greta Mc-
‘counselor Marilyn Claytor and a ina investigator iaad ‘tet undor~ thick and some of Grom | - never Affects of alcohol and drug usage,”’ costs are covered by the program.  Caughrin (X8826) for more.
,Tecovering student, Tracy. cover agent. He described his in- win back,’ she said. y said Caulkins. Any interested student must see

By Brian Root “We can’t do anything without the Olin said he opposed the may studying the bill before a. oe eee
‘Staff Reporter a and he can’t do anything ea aaa ae aehe “T don’t think President Reagan ac- | The Politics Department invites in- desirable. There will be a man-
: Olin praised President-elect George earlier this year, and would support an tually knew what was in the thing | terested students to apply for the wane eae eee
‘ Bush for his ‘‘excellent’’ Cabinet ap- _ effort to have the matter reopened. when he made it « law,'* said Otte. caer Galles sete ional in Baker 108: details of the trip will
The last thing members of Congress _ pointes and his pledges to reduce the He said that this had been one of the Although the government referred Corea along with ~ be announced then. Please a u
‘should be doing in an era of huge fed- deficit most prominent issues in his many ‘© the surcharge as a “user fee,” said C Z * tan Tenn a aie in advence for this cutin a

eral budget deficits is raise their own However, Olin added, it would be town meetings throughout the district. Olin, the bill amounts to a tax hike. eal aaa deo Prof Connelly 106). Space is limited .
salaries, said Rep. James “‘Jim’? Olin difficult for Bush to keep his cam- The bill was originally intended to _ “The president who said he was | (oo oe Genoa) for y
| Saturday at a town meeting in Lex-  paign promises for increased govern- protect people over the age of 65 who _gainst any new taxes signed a bill that ces oo decilanion hha Be ari
ington. ment funding for education and hous- were hospitalized for long periods of "iSes some people's income tax by 15 licati a January 27, 1989
Olin said he would oppose a ing while also adhering to his pledge _ time, but was expanded by Congress percent,” Olin said. ‘Now, that’s app nips 3 Go to England
pending bill that would raise con- of nonew taxes. to include paying the costs of prescrip- What I call phony talk.

, Olin said both political parties Reagan’s proposed federal budget that to 28 percent. has held more than 200 town meetings | member for a dollar a chance. The
should share the burden for deficit was recently sent to Congress. Olin Olin said a small group paying such throughout the sixth Congressional | drawing will be held Wed., Feb. 8.
‘reduction and added that the deficit also criticized Reagan’s budget for its a large amount for a program that district, according to Olin’s divisional | Feb, 8. ‘*pleoenate Putures for Northern
was the top priority for the newly- “unrealistic”’ proposals. benefits so few people was “‘inherent- director, Peggy Davis. First prize will be a Sony CD Ireland’ will be discussed by
| sworn in Congress. “President Reagan’s budget was ly unfair.” “These meetings give me an good | Walkman, second prize, a pair of Geen’. University (Belfast) Lec-
|‘ “In order to really do something fine in terms of the goals to achieve, Since the bill was passed, Olin said, feel for the views of the people,’* said | Fancy Dress tickets, and third 9 8 political Science Dr. Rick
about the budget, we have to have a but it’s the arithmetic in the middle there has been a large public backlash Olin. “I give them my point of view | prize, ice cream for two at Sweet Wired at 4:00 p.m., Monday,
_ bi-partisan approach,’’ Olin said. that isa little off.”’ over the cost, and criticized President 294 I get their reaction quickly. Things. : January 23, Northern Auditorium.
' i 6 5 = ee ae a Sponsors: Politics Department and
Breton at or
. the Fulbright Foundation.
. City planners support ‘bed & breakfasts Store sresoaacsriai, te, Fulbright Foundation
versities of London (B. Soc. Bi
awe Wolford Commission Chairman Henry L. will not increase and there will not be King. : Bath (M. Soc. Sci.) and »
pm Ravenhorst said that the ordinance problems with unpleasant guests. He = i, ah the basic draft of the new Russian Brothers (Ph.D.). Author of numerous ar

'
'
|

|
{

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1989, Page 5

 

‘Four voices
of experience
are part

‘of drug panel

 

Members of a drug awareness panel

* discussion:told a Lee Chapel audience

, Tuesday night how they have en-

countered alcohol and drugs in their
‘ professional or personal life.

The panel was part of W&L’s Drug
Awareness Week sponsored by the
} university’s Health Education Com-

mittee. ‘“The students on the com-
‘mittee suggested we have the panel
«discussion so they could hear many

points of view and ask questions,”’
said the committee’s chairman, Carol
, Caulkins.

The panel included Lexington and

,

 

 

iecaddier ths Gel astaliahis Wades? Whi tues dk *h HDs veanvening sehen, ous
counselor, a judge, and a criminal investigator. The Tuesday night session, sponsored by the Health
Education Committee as part of its Drug Awareness Week, was moderated by Dean Anne Schroer -

Lamont (seated at far right).
Honts described the criminal pro-
cedure someone would encounter if
arrested for illegal drug activity. He
also described the general pattern he
has observed among W&L students
who have appeared before him in
court. ‘There is usually a limited use
prior to arrival at school, then the
problem develops in an atmosphere of
such freedom. Usage increases the
sophomore year and afterward, but

In local politics....
' Olin denounces Congress pay raise

 

 

gressmen’s salaries by an average of
almost 40 percent.
* “T haven’t voted for a pay raise in

the six years I’ve been there (in Con- and less overall spending. The program will be funded by atax his overwhelming re-election in Oxford —— —
gress),’’ Olin said to an audience of 32 —‘‘People have to be willing to de- increase for everyone over 65. The November. : ; : Ne aPP es N-3, Ext. 8770
people at the Rockbridge County Cen- mand less programs and right now ‘Because of the election, Olin was The Russian Club is holding a ewcomb a :

tral Library. ‘‘With the problem of the
deficit, the Congress has got to show
‘ome leadership.”’

 

4

, The Lexington Planning Commis-
‘sion told the city council at last Thurs-
day’s meeting that it supports a new
ordinance that would allow operation
of bed and breakfast homestays and
inns in many residential areas of the
city.
‘ in a joint work session, the Planning
Commission presented its draft of the
‘Bed & Breakfast’ Ordinance for the
¢ouncil’s suggestions. Planning

21 W. Washington Street
} Lexington, Virginia

&

The problem for the government,
said Olin, is the public’s conflicting
demands for more federal programs

they’re not,’’ Olin said.
Olin predicted that, once assuming
office, Bush would probably ignore

would merely legalize bed and
breakfast establishments which are
similar to the tourist and lodging
homes that have been in Lexington for

years.

Ravenhorst added that if adopted,
‘The impact will not be as great as
has been anticipated by some of the
people who are opposed to this idea.”’
Despite arguments from the oppo-
sition, Ravenhorst said he does not
think there will be many new bed and
breakfast homnestays created, traffic

ge Unly Uy
%

We Have The Best Spring Break Ideas-

1 Mili St
Lori Rhodenizer Sunor Snow! Staunten, Va Serving Dinner Nightly 5 p.m. to Close
Campus Representative 885-3409 Reservations suggested

 

  
 
     
   

 

  

volvement in the busting of a cocaine
deal in Roanoke that seized 700
pounds. ‘‘Cocaine is hazardous, in-
convenient and expensive to our socie-
ty,”’ he said.

The final speaker was a female stu-
dent who is a recovering alcoholic.
she gave an account of how she de-
veloped a dependency on drugs and
alcohol, starting in elementary school
until she went into treatment at age 15.

tion drugs and other benefits which go
beyond the normal coverage of
Medicare.

basic iugm for Medicare was rais*«
ed b mt and a 15 percent sur-

charge on income tax.
By 1993, the surcharge would rise

added that many bed and breakfast
guests who come are referred and are
sometimes screened.

According to Mayor H.E. Derrick
Jr., the new ordinance is ‘‘much
tighter’ than what exists now. Many
of the tourist and lodging homes are
not restricted by conditional use per-
mits at the present time. With the
adoption of the new ordinance,
however, the city will be able to im-
pose more restrictions on these estab-
lishments, said City Manager Joe

Drug Awareness Week also includ-
ed a lecture by Dr. Nelson Butters of
the University of California at San
Diego, entitled ‘‘Episodic, Semantic
and Implicit Memory Disorders in
Dementia.”’ It took place Wednesday
afternoon in a classroom of the Com-
merce School.

“The Effects of Alcohol on the
Brain,”’ is the title of Butters’s lecture
ee at 7:30 in the University’s Lee

The meeting was Olin’s fifth town
meeting in Lexington since his elec-
tion to Congress, and the first since

prohibited from holding these
meetings after September.

In his six years in Congress, Olin

ordinance has been written, city coun-
cil and the planning commission will
hold a public hearing on Feb. 2 to ad-
dress the new ordinance and the
rezoning of the ‘‘Red Square’’ frater-
nity cluster at Jefferson and Henry
Streets.

Derrick said council will consider
adoption of the new ordinance at the
March 2 meeting and added that ‘‘it’s
going to grow whiskers if it gets much
older.’”

 

   

 

 

Memorable Dining In Gracious
Accommodations With Superb Service

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, Italian And

Featuring Raw Bar with Clams
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp.

Cajun Dishes

Marshall Foundation
honors W&L senior

 

 

      

The George C. Marshall Research
Library in Lexington has announced
that Matthew P. Brady, a Washington
and Lee University senior, is the reci-
pient of a Marshall Undergraduate
Scholarship award for 1988-89.
Brady, the son of Thomas Brady of
Charlotte, North Carolina, plans to
pursue his research project on John
Stewart Service, the Amerasia case
and U.S. policy toward China during
and after World War II. Brady is in

Lead America

Leadership America is an exciting
ten-week program in the summer
for undergraduates who have com-
pleted their junior year. The pro-

Prof. Connelly (Rm. 108, C-
School) for more information and
applications no later than January
20.

Congress Credit

Russian Raffle

raffle to raise funds for Armenian
disaster victims. Tickets can be
purchased from anv Russian Club

‘The Brothers Karamazov’’
(USSR, 1968, direc-
tor/screenwriter Ivan Pyriev,
abridged from the novel by Fyodor
Dostoyevskiy, in Russian with (oc-

 

General Notes

University Scholars honors program,
is a National Merit Scholar and a
Robert E. Lee scholar. A member of
the water polo and swimming teams,
he is on the athletic academic honor
roll. In addition, he serves as treasurer
of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

The Marshall Award is given by the
Marshall Library to outstanding
students of participating Virginia col-,
leges who are chosen by their pro-
fessors in the fields of history or pol-
itical science.

casionally censored English sub-
titles) runs at 7:30 pm, Fri-Sat.,
January 27-28, 203 Reid. Public
invited. Probes the outgrowth of
unlimited power from the premise:
God is dead. Brutally assails the
key axioms of Western political
and moral thought. The original 3-

Trail Camping

From Saturday, January 21 at
10:30 a.m. to Sunday, January 22,
at 5:30 p.m. the Outing Club will
sponsor a camping trip on the Ap-

Rising juniors interested in the

Hear of Ireland

ticles and 7 books ranging in scope
from political ideology to N. Irish
elections, Wilford specializes in
Policy Studies and Comparative
Politics. See Prof. Craig Mc-
Caughrin (X8624) for further
details.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ George’s Just DownTheRoad. Tired of scoring in a cold dark alley? Bag a 10 where
eae e ° it’s hot while you enjoy a complete menu, beer and
Hairstylist AnotherProminentinstitute AccuScore. THE FAST LANE.
136 Varner Lane For Hi ig her Leaning. 12 Noon-Midnight Monday-Thursday
463-3975 Saturday 12 p.m.-1 a.m.
Open Evenings Fridays Open Until 2 a.m.

 

Mon.-Thurs, till 7:00 p.m.

)

 
     

Sunday Noon-Midnight

 

Midnight Bowl Special
11:30-2 a.m. Fridays
Music and Prizes

 

Country D Fare

COUNTRY CRAFTS & ANTIQUES

 

 

 

Receive an education in central Virginia$ best midweek skiing values.
Lift tickets are only $18, for instance. Coupon books with eight tickets,
just $88. And our midweek lodging packages start at $38. For free
brochures call 703-289-9441.

Ski Massanutten

10MilesEast Of Harrisonburg, Virginia,On Route 33

Booklet can only be used by one person — non-transferable

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695

4 E. WASHINGTON ST.
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

KAREN A, NOELI
703/463-2088

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1989

 

Basketball’s unbeaten streak hits seven .

 

Senior Lee Brading launches a 3-point bomb over a Roanoke defender in W&L’s

102-86 win last Thursday.

 

 

By Tom Wingfield
Staff Reporter

 

Water Polo and Swimming. Two sports that require the
same amount of time and commitment as any other sport?
Not exactly. The life of a Washington and Lee water
polo/swimmer is not an easy one.

The ordeal begins in August, a full three weeks before
classes begin, when the water polo team kicks into full
swing with four workouts per day. Check out the sched-
ule. While most returning students are enjoying their
final days of sun and fun, the polo players are in the pool
at 7:00 am each day. The first workout lasts until 8:15
and then the second one goes from 9:00 am until 12
noon. Afternoon workouts begin at 3:00 and last until
8:00 with a whole hour off for dinner. The players
describe these workouts as being intense with a majority
of the time spent on conditioning.

These workouts (toned down somewhat when classes

Dedication and sacrifice

W&L swimmers/polo players exemplify true meaning of word committment

water polo and swimming has to endure for eight months
of the academic year. This extraordinary dedication has,
however, taken its toll. Several members of the aquatics
program planned to participate in both seasons, only to
realize that the commitment was too great.

It takes a special type of person to complete this
marathon of practices, polo matches, practices, meets
and more practices. Three seniors, David Dietz, David
Reavy and Stuart Sheldon are some of the few, along
with senior Jeff Bercaw, who have been involved in the
W&L aquatics’ program since they arrived in Lexington
as freshmen.

They have never been to Homecoming or spent a fall
weekend at Foxfield. The average Thanksgiving Break
for the swimmers is four days. Christmas vacation is cer-
tainly no vacation, either. Head coach Page Remillard
asks his charges to be back in Cy Twombly Pool on Dec.
26. Washington’s Holiday does not exist on a swimmers’
calendar. The team remains in Lexington for workouts
the entire week.

Generals to take four game road trip :

By Jay Plotkin
Staff Reporter

 

Photo by JuLee Messerich/The Ring-tum Phi

It was Thursday night. Students
were filing into the Warner Center in
hoards. Two thousand, one hundred
and ninety-nine to be exact.

Since when do 2,199 people to
come to a Washington and Lee
basketball game? Answer: Every time
Roanoke comes to town. And
Roanoke was in town last Thursday
for an Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference showdown.

During the player introductions, the
noise was so deafening that people
could not heat the Generals being in-
troduced. Said Generals head coach
Verne Canfield, ‘‘I can’t say enough.
We had a full house. I love it! They
are just a dream. That’s a beautiful
crowd.”’

The crowd got its money’s worth in
this one. Roanoke bolted to a 47-42
halftime lead on sophomore guard
Cary Gentry’s shot at the buzzer. Pat
Muldowney, a senior guard, kept
Roanoke in the lead throughout the
half with 14 points. For the Generals,
sophomore center Chris Jacobs,
recovering from a sore back, had 15
while sophomore guard Pat Gallavan
chipped in nine.

There were two reasons the Gen-
erals were behind at the half. The star-
ting backcourt of Mike Holton and
Lee Brading had combined for two
points. The other, according to Can-
field, was that the team was afraid to
make mistakes. ‘‘They were being so
tentative that they were afraid to make
mistakes.””

He remedied the situation with a
plea to his players. ‘‘I said, ‘Go out
there and make me some mistakes.’
They made some mistakes, but they
created while they made mistakes, and

" that’s the way I wanted them to play.”

The Generals scored 15 seconds
into the second half on sophomore

Craig Hatfield’s lay up. Then the team
kicked it into overdrive. Sophomore
forward Ed Hart scored. Brading nail-
ed a three-pointer, and all of a sudden,
the Generals led 49-47 with seven
points in 1:30.

After the Maroons tied the game at
51, Brading made the play of the
game. The Generals turned the ball
over, but the senior captain hid in a
crowd, stole the outlet pass, and
buried another three-point bomb to
give the Generals the lead again.

Roanoke closed the gap to one, but
after Holton drilled his only three
pointer of the night and Hart scored
from the baseline, the lead was 65-59.

When freshman forward Mark
Melton scored twice in a row, the sec-
ond with 2:15 left, Roanoke called
timeout. The score was 87- 74, and it
was in the books. When Brading
dropped in the second of two free
throws with 26 seconds left, the Gen-
erals had hit the century mark. Final
score: W&L 102, Roanoke 86.

Hart and Brading proved to be the
Hart and soul of the team. Hart scored
whenever he wanted, finishing with
22, and Brading refused to let the team
lose. Said Canfield on Hart’s perfor-
mance, ‘‘He came to play tonight.
Edward had been just a little bit ten-
tative, but he came out tonight, looked
at that basket, and had that ag-
gressiveness about him. This is the Ed
Hart of old.’’ Brading scored all 14 of
his points in the second half, and was
the emotional leader on the floor.

On Saturday, the Generals enter-
tained Marymount University. The
weather outside in Lexington was cold
and rainy, but inside, the Generals,
namely Holton, were on fire in the
first half.

After scoring 14 of the first 16
points of the game, W&L then turned
Holton loose on the perimeter. He hit
six straight three pointers after miss-
ing his first. Two in a row gave the

Generals a 22-9 lead with 12:01 left in
the half. Another two in a row, the
second from NBA range, gave the
Generals a 47-31 lead with 1:10 left.
When Hart hit from three-point land at
the buzzer (yes, ED HART), the Gen-
erals were coasting, up 52-33.

After intermission, it was @
different game. After scoring the first
basket of the half, the lead was 54-33.
Marymount then went on a 26-8 run
that closed the gap to 62-59 led by
Pierre Gardner and Scott Benson. The
pair combined for 17 of the 26 points
in the run. The Generals regained con-
trol, and when Jacobs dunked on‘a
breakaway, the lead was 75-68 with
2:11 left. He scored 13 of his 21 in the
second half, as the Generals held @n
for a 81-75 non conference win.
Holton added 20 points, Hart 12
points and 12 rebounds, and Braditg
11. The Generals connected on ,a
school record 11 three pointers on the
day. ‘

On Tuesday, the Generals ran their
record to 10-2, 5-0 in the conference,
with a 77-64 win over Eastern Men-
nonite. The Generals trailed for most
of the first half before taking the ledd
for good on two free throws by Jacobs
with 7:01 left in the half. The lead
grew to seven when Hart connected dn
3 of 4 technical foul shots after
Royals’ coach Mark Fleming was
slapped with two technicals. Tite
Royals closed the gap to 38-37 when
Duval Denlinger scored with nine
seconds left in the half. ‘

In the second stanza, the Generals
sputtered a bit before going on a 15-2
run to put the game away. Hart ard.
Hatfield spurred the charge. During
the run, the Generals held the —_
scoreless for 5:44.

Hart scored 14 of his career best 2
in the second half, and Hatfield addéd
14 points and eight boards. Jacobs, the
ODAC’s leading scorer, chipped in
with 16.

¥
4
¥
4

'

¥

season and will most likely be an all-American again this
year. He has led the W&L water polo team in goals
scored the last two seasons and has been one of the team
leaders throughout his collegiate career.

‘Playing polo and swimming offers a great challenge
to everyone,’’ he says. ‘‘I didn’t want to swim when I
first came to school but I knew I needed to stay in shape
for the following polo year. I realized through all of this
hard work that you truly do get out of something what
you put into it. I have been playing summer polo in
California the last two years and it has really paid off.’’

David Reavy is the other W&L all-America water polo
player who has participated in both swimming and polo
for four years. ‘Unlike Dietz, I did want to swim my
freshman year as well as play water polo,’’ he says. ‘‘I
have really benefited from my athletic experience at
W&L. I have learned to keep my priorities straight as
well as valuable leadership qualities. I am sure that I will
be able to succeed at my future goals based on my ability

job that requires 15 hours of work a day [study, class and |
practice time combined]. There is very little free time’
simply because of the need to use our time wisely.’’ ,

Sheldon decided to play polo his freshman year simply to’
maintain conditioning for swimming. He had never
played before coming to W&L and has not seen a lot.of
playing time in his career, yet he has stuck with both polo :
and swimming for four complete sasons. ‘

er was able to understand the game and I really like ‘

as I was Most Improved Swimmer my first two years |
here. I have really enjoyed playing polo and being in- ‘
volved in athletics here at school. A lot of people don’t
have the chance to participate in intercollegiate athletics
and I felt I should take advantage of this opportunity. It ‘
has really been worth my time.”’

**Playing polo and swimming is like having a regular’

Stuart Sheldon is not an all-America polo player. |

“‘T wasn’t very good at water polo freshman year but I

** he says. ‘‘It did help me stay in shape for swimming +

Time,

 

 

 

to handle the work load that I faced for the past four
years.

indeed. It has been worth time, dedication,

begin) are what an individual who participates in both David Dietz was an all-America water polo player last commitment and lots of hard work.

 

 

 

Gettier’s Gifts
CARDS, POSTERS & GIFTS

Route 60 W. across from Keydet Genera.
Plenty of Parking

pen M-S 10-6

MWe
thrilling
experience

Catholic Campus Ministry will offer a
“Twilight Retreat’? on Wednesday, Jan. 25th,
from 4-8 p.m. at St. Patrick’s Church on Nelson St.
The topic is “The Gathered Church: Liturgical

 

 

 

 

  
    
 

463-1712

     
 
   

Mountain
__—Copy-Graphies

Ministry”’ and will explore the vision of community
celebration and worship. This pre-Lenten retreat will
allow for discernment of individual participation in
liturgies. All students, faculty, and staff are invited.
Dinner will be provided - RSVP 463-3533.

 

FRATERNITY/SORORITY PARTY FLYERS / INVITATIONS
«+ PROFESSIONAL QUALITY RESUMES -
* COVER LETTERS TYPING SERVICES -
D » RESUME STATIONERY SUPPLIES -
S Mon-Fri 8 AM-6 PM. Sat. 9-Noon

Aluin-Bennis, Inc. ee

Fine Men’s Apparel "

WINTER SALE NOW IN PROGRESS!

you've
ever had
in the dark.

Tae etree Mae eae

ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

~

We invite vou to spend an unforgettable night at Wintergreen ;
On top of our mountain, vou Tl find five slopes, lit, ready and

* oe at pee pleasure. And they stay open until our Suits and Coats 20 a 50% Off Sport Shirts 25% Off
So come earh and stay late . : '
Because along with the best snowmaking equipment in the Pants 20 - 50% Off Chamois Shirts 20% Off

Mid-Atlantic, vou ll find great food and great entertainment :
Wintergreen. Just 43 miles southwest of Charlottesville Wool Sweaters 20% Off Outerwear and Topcoats 20% Off i
Kor thrillatter thrill in the dark
For overnight reservations, call 804-325-2200. For the latest ski

report, ( ill L-804-425-SNOW s

102 W. Washington St. Lexington, Va. 24450

ee Wintergreen

special discounts see your Campus representative.

Mastercard

SINCE 1963
MSPS aaa AAU Wa ae aa WS AAG aa AAS

Visa Student Charge

‘
For

 
 

 

|
Prop 42 raises
many questions

Outside of our idealistic and near-perfect world of Division III
athletics, there lies a problem. It is a problem that has been with us for
several years now—a problem that no one has come even close to solv
ing. This past week, the NCAA made a stab in the dark at rectifying the
situation. Too bad it was just that, a blind stab.

The problem is a question of how you define that oxymoron “‘student-
athlete."” The NCAA’s solution in 1985 was the well- known and
highly-controversial Proposition 48 (now Bylaw 5-(1)-j) that required
athletes to score at least 700 on the SAT or 15 on the ACT and obtain at
least a 2.0 GPA in 11 core curriculum courses or be declared ineligible
for his or her freshman year and lose a year of eligibility to boot. The
athlete, however, was still able to receive a scholarship and have his/her
eligibility restored if he/she were able to maintain a 2.0 GPA after the
first year of college. The NCAA has now taken it a step further with the
passage of Proposition 42, which simply states that an athlete can
receive no financial aid unless the above criteria are met.

Prop 42 makes moot the question of Prop 48’s rightness or
wrongness. It’s narrow victory in the NCAA congress has afready caus-
ed quite a stir among coaches and administrators, the most ballyhooed
being the coaching boycott by Georgetown’s John Thompson. One
could argue the pro and cons of Prop 42 for days—it’s racist because the
tests it’s based upon are culturally biased; it closes educational doors for
the underprivileged; it will stop the student-athlete fallacy and put an
end to the exploitation of the athlete.

These arguments should be well taken, but that is not to say Prop 42 is
a good or bad thing. The NCAA’s intentions are excellent—prove to me
that you are ready for college work before we allow you financial aid in
the form of an athletic scholarship. The NCAA wants to improve its
graduation rate of athletes. Too many athletes who can’t handle the
course load are being given scholarships, only to fail in the classroom
after three or four years. The NCAA wants to turn that around. Solu-
tion? Set some sort of minimum standards that will show if the athlete is
ready or not to perform in the biology lab despite his ability to perform
on the football field

But allow me to throw a word out at you—opportunity. Aren’t you
denying an education to those athletes who, under Prop 48, were able to
demonstrate that they could, in fact, succeed in college. A 700 SAT
score does not sound like much, but there is truth to the claim of it being
culturally biased. Standards must be set, but where do you draw the line
and what do you base your decision on?

Tennis player Arthur Ashe agreed with the NCAA’s new legislation.
His reasoning? When the standards have been raised, the student-
athletes have elevated their academic efforts to meet those standards.
And, if you don’t cut the mustard, there is always junior college.

Excuse me, Mr. Ashe? Junior colleges are just as guilty as major uni-
versities when it comes to athletic exploitation. And is two years at a
junior college really going to do much for an athlete’s educational ad-
vancement? I think not.

Our society is one that strives for democracy and fairness. In order to
realize this goal, certain sacrifices must be made. In our judicial system,
you are innocent until proven guilty. Because of this, many guilty peo-
ple go free but fewer innocent people go to jail. In college there are go-
ing to be athletes who don’t belong there, but there are also going to be a
few that do. Athletics for poor people is their only hope to continue their
education. I hate to think of someone who wants to do just that but is de-
nied that opportunity.

It’s a grave problem but one that 1,000 NCAA propositions could not
solve. The problem lies in this society’s attitude towards education. Un-
til something is done about that, the NCAA is just making wild stabs in
the dark.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wrestlers win 1st

‘The Washington and Lee wrestl- ~
ing team put all of the pieces
together in one match and came
away with its first victory of the
season on Saturday at the Davidson
Quadrangular.

The Generals, 1-4, got key wins
from freshman Peer Soderberg,
sophomore Bill Avery, and junior
Jonah Glick and victories from
seniors Richard Redfoot and
Manoli Loupassi and
Larry Pilkey and Scott Swygert to
post a 33-15 win over Davidson.

W&L dropped its two other mat-

oe urday, falling 36-14 to
seorgia’ Yech and 33-12 to Fur-

man,

 

Saturday, area wrestling fans
will be treated to a full day of ac-
tion in the Warner Center when
W2&L plays host to the ninth annual —
WEL Invitational.

Gridders honored

W&L senior defensive tackle
Jim Johnson, one of the team’s tri-
captains and the Generals’ leader
in sacks this season, was recently
named to the Football Gazette
NCAA Division Tf All: America
team.

Also, senior linebacker and tri-
captain Tom Skeen, W&L’s ail-
time career tackle leader, and
Sophomore placekicker ‘ Carter
Quayle, who set a school record
for most field goals in a season,

both received honorable mention,

all-America distinction on the
football Gazette team.

 

 

 

an

a ee ee

eteee

eae

eee

ee

CSO MES

www ree

tower ee ee eevee

©

 

‘a

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1989, Page 7

 

Tough aquatic foes
means experience

 

By Mike Shady
Sports Editor

 

Both the Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams ran
into some tough competition last
weekend and, in the process, proved
to themselves that they can perform
well against top-notch opponents.

The W&L men’s team, 2-1, lost to
Division If power Shippensburg, 105
85, on the road Friday night but gain
ed some valuable experience along the
way. ‘‘Shippensburg is an excellent
Division I team,” said senior David
Dietz. ‘‘They are one of the top three
teams in Division I]. We can swim
with them, although the score was
much closer than the meet actually
was, as they swam some people in off
events. They are a lot better than we
are, but it is good for us to go against
that kind of competition.’

The Generals responded on Satur-
day in Lexington with a 126- 78 defeat
of Division I UNC-Charlotte in Cy
Twombly Pool. It was, as Dietz put it,
a ‘‘good win.”’

“One of our big shave meets last
year was held down at Emory Univer-
sity and UNC-Charlotte was one of
the teams that finished ahead of us,
mainly because of its diving,’’ he
said. ‘‘So, we are extremely happy to
beat them in a dual meet setting this
season. They are a good team to swim
against and it definitely adds
something to our schedule.”

The women’s team, 3-2, was over-
matched against Shippensburg on Fri-
day night but gave UNC-Charlotte all
it could handle on Saturday in Lex-
ington before falling 116-88.

‘*We saw some really good swims
and it was a good experience because
it was the first time we ever swam

against UNC-Chrlotte, and because

 

it was good competition—something
we don’t have in the ODAC [Old
Dominion Athletic Conference],’’

said senior Nancy Whalen, who was
slowed somewhat in both meets by il
“We look forward to beating
them at the Atlantic States Meet.’

Besides there mal
competition between the two com
peting teams, it seems there was a
little more was at stake Saturday than
just a Generals’ win or loss

“Coach [W&L head coach Page
Remillard] said he would shave his
moustache if both the men and the
women won,”

Iness

being the not

said senior Elizabeth
Miles. *‘It’s just too bad we came out
on the short end of the score. [The
moustache] will come off when Atlan-
tic States rolls around.”’

Remillard, moustache still intact,
was ecstatic with his team’s swimm
ing, despite winning only one of the
four meets.

‘IT am very, very pleased with our
performance,”’ he said. ‘‘Not only in
the pool, but also the entire at
mosphere was outstanding

“I felt really good about our entire
effort. The team had to make some
important sacrifices, but they did what
I asked them to do and they did what it
took to perform at their highest level.
They swam great, but that’s what they
had to do. I am very proud of them.”’

Both teams will travel to the Wash-
ington area for a pair of meets on the
road this weekend. On Friday, the
Generals will swim against
Georgetown and on Saturday, W&L’s
road trip concludes with a meet
against Johns Hopkins in Baltimore

“We'll just continue to take it one
week at a time,’ said Remillard.
“We'll keep trying to build on the
good performances and make the cor-
rections when necessary.’

Mui s Hain tylors

463-9588

 

Old Main St. Mall

Lexington, Va. 24450

EEE TSS ETS 8 oe

the — -

se

TE Tele,

. ~ Over $2,000 In Prizes

Friday, January 20th
The Pavilion

Hh

3 Day Cruise For Two

7 Day Trip for Two to Cancun, Mexico —
Week-end for Two in Washington, D.C.
Nintendo

VCR

...And Much More!!!

Open to W&L Faculty, Student & Administration
Sponsored by Student Activities Board

.

Peewee aE

 

:

re
‘BACK PAGE

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1989

 

Rain Man is triumphant

Hoffman sews up Best Actor Oscar
in clearly the finest role of his career

Sa
By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

 

After Dustin Hoffman's first suc-
cessful film role in Mike Nichols’
surprise hit 7he Graduate, The New
York Times called him “*An amazing
| who] makes you feel a
little tearf d choked up while mak
ing you laugh yourself raw.”

in 1978. Time applauded Hoffman
the Kramer
Kramer. the film for which he would
later win the Academy Award for Best
Actor, saying, ‘*...He has turned the
screen into a mirror, a magical look-
ing glass into his own head and
heart.”

Then, after his role in the 1982
smash Tootsie, Variety noted,
‘Hoffman triumphs in what must
stand as one of his most brilliant per-
“formances. Although hardly blessed
with what one could consider feminine
or even androgynous features, his
Dorothy is entirely plausible and,
physically, reasonably appealing.”

There is no question that in the elite
fraternity of modern American actors
Dustin Hoffman can justifiably take
his place beside the likes of Jack
Lemmon, Marlon Brando, Robert
DeNiro, Robert Duvall, Al Pacino,
Gene Hackman, Paul Newman, James
Earl Jones and Jack Nicholson.

His inclusion in this elite
brotherhood comes on the merit that
since his initial success with The
Graduate in 1967, Hoffman has been
one of the most consistent talents in
Hollywood racking up Best Actor
nominations in 1967 (The Graduate),
1969 (Midnight Cowboy), 1974
(Lenny), 1979 (Kramer vs. Kramer for
which he won) and in 1982 (Zootsie).

And what about 1989 and Rain
Man? Well, unless the planet explodes
before April, Dustin Hoffman will
most surely take home his second Best
Actor Award at this spring’s Academy
Awards ceremony.

It is one of a critic’s biggest sins to
predict an award for an actor without
seeing all of the competition, but Hof-
fman’s performance in Rain Man is
not only far and away the finest per-
formance of the last year; it is one of
the finest performances of the last
decade.

In Rain Man, Hoffman plays the

 

new young

  

after release of Vs.

part of an autistic savant named Ray-
mond Babbit. As an autistic, Ray-
mond suffers from a defective sensory
system that amplifies the world
around him to a totally encompassing
level causing him to withdraw totally
into his own world

As a savant Raymond has the
phenomenal ability to read and ab
sorb. In one scene for instance, Ray
mond reads and memorizes the phone
book listings from A to G with the
total recall of any name, number and
address between the two letters. He
cannot, however, discern the concept
of money or reality. Raymond has
what seem like genius capabilities on
one hand, but has the technical 1.Q. of
a child on the other.

The film centers around Raymond
and his brother Charlie played by Tom
Cruise. Charlie, who left home and
cut off all touch with his father at six-
teen, gets monetarily cut out of his
father’s $3 million will and goes to the
trustee of the money to strike a
bargain. As it happens, the trustee is
the overseer of the institution where
Raymond has been living since he was
diagnosed as autistic in his early
childhood.

On arriving at the institution,
Charlie doesn’t even know he has a
brother. It is then, when Raymond
recognizes his father’s car that the plot
begins to unfold and the romance bet-
ween these lost brothers begins.

While obviously there is some plot
to the film, Rain Man is more of a
character study than anything else. It
is that unique film that Can take two
characters and make them so absorb-
ing that the viewer loses himself in
them for two hours.

It can be argued that without plot, a
character study is the most difficult
kind of film to make. Throw in an
autistic character and an actor noted
primarily for his looks and draw at the
box office instead of his ability to act
and you immediately create the poten-
tial for failure.

Rain Man is different though. It
trumps the wagers of the critics and
makes something especially beautiful
out of a project that few directors
would believe in; but there were a
fewiHoffman, Cruise and Director
Barry Levinson.

As Raymond, Dustin Hoffman
gives clearly the finest performance of

 

 

 

 

 

his career. While one of Hoffman’s
strongest talents has been his range,
playing everything from a college kid
in The Graduate to the slimy Ratso
Rizzo in Midnight Cowboy to an in-
dian in Little Big Man to a woman in
Tootsie, the role of an autistic is
different. It is one of those roles that
takes more than just talent to perform
successfully. It takes an inner
understanding and being of the
character. Hoffman pulls it off beau-
tifully.

In preparation for the role, Hoffman
lived with an autistic child for some
months to understand and master
every movement, every mannerism
and every mode of speech. Not once
in the film does Hoffman look into the

ene TCD
dollar business has an
Executive Training Program

eco eh

Business Week’s top 10?

dustry leader al

irteam |

(ms

MACYS

Where your opportunities a

c1ness maine
aptancell

— ir
ar vOU WII t
yur first year YOU W'

ome learn about

PONE ROT MTS ech

amatics, OF
1; Macy's Executive
.e responsible

t

‘ prepaning YOU

= the fastest track to DUSINe
sn members of your Clase
aduation. lolearn ho
yn us at our presentation orsi
lace office If you¢

 

1iNg y!

by send
47th Flo

10001

>rest

ew York NY

s will be joining the tf
wyou can be part
ign up for an

cant meet us in pé :
yUP FSU
RH Macy &

We afé

WEL University

 

eyes of Cruise. Not once. While this is
incredible acting and in total character
for Hoffman it makes Cruise’s
responses very difficult with nothing
to work off of. Surprisingly, Cruise is
excellent and carries his weight very
nicely in measure to Hoffman.

It is quite an understatement to call
Rain Man a phenomenal film. It is in-
credibly moving both at the end and in
repeated scenes throughout the film. It
will make you laugh and it will make
you cry but more than anything it will
make you feel. It is definitely one of
the films that you can’t afford to miss
this year. It is true genius.

TUG’S TAG - kkk

 

 

audiotronics

VIRGINIA’S STEREO SPECIALIST

YAMAHA ALPINE
DENON BOSTON
B&O cWD

KEF SONANCE
SIGNET B&K
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

1 YOU QUALIFY FOR 1
I :
g INSTANT CREDIT! |
i i
I start making credit pur- ff
chases IMMEDIATELY! We
will send you a Members
Credit Card at once with i
NO CREDIT CHECK. Buy any
Jewelry, Clothing ,Sport- i
ing Goods,Watches, Elec-
tronics & MORE! All with ff
installment payments out j
of our "Giant 100+ Pages ff
Catalog." Take 12 months §
to repay. Your personal
eredit card is a =second
I.D.- valuable for check
eashing, etc. plus your }
Students Credit Group
A-1 reference will be on t
file to help you obtain
other credit cards. S50
send in your $5 cataler.
deposit now. (refundable
with your first order)

Establish your cred Today!
100% Satisetion Guaranteed passes]
(or your Money Back} ——— a

De

y MEMBERS. ?.0.50x469

FORT LAUDERDALE,
FLORIOA 33338 Wl

:

i Students

F&M! CHa

calendar

Friday, January 20

8 a.m.—Arny R.O.T.C.M Battlefield Tour of New Market. Call Maj.
Wingard for details (ext. 8486, 8480).

4 p.m.—LEE-JACKSON LECTURES: ‘*‘When Lee Came Back to Lex-
ington,’ I. Taylor Sanders, W&L historian, ‘‘When Jackson Came
Back to Lexington,’’ Michael Lynn, director of Stonewall Jackson
House. Northern Auditorium, University Library. Reception to follow
in Boatwright Room. Public invited.

8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: Housekeeping(Scotland/USA,
Classroom ‘‘A,’” Lewis Hall.

 

1987).

Saturday, January 21
All Day—WRESTLING: W&L Invitational. Warner Center. ’
1:30 p.m.—OPERA BROADCAST: Il Travatore (Verdi). WLURiFM
(O15).
8 p.m.—FILM SOCIETY: Housekeeping(Scotland/USA,
Classroom ‘‘A,’’ Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: BASKETBALL: Mary Washington;
SWIMMING: Georgetown; INDOOR TRACK: Va. Tech Invitational. ;

1987). +

Sunday, January 22 :
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: SWIMMING: Johns Hopkins. ‘
Monday, January 23 :

4 p.m.—POLITICS LECTURE: ‘‘Alternate Futures for Northern
Ireland,’’ Richard Wilford, political scientist, Queen’s University,
Belfast. Northern Auditorium, University Library. Public invited. 7

Tuesday, January 24
8 p.m.—CONCERT GUILD: Cleveland String Quartet. Lee Chapel. ‘
Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Hampden-Sydney.

Wednesday, January 25

8 a.m.—ECUMENICAL PRAYER SERVICE: Lee Chapel. Public in-
vited. ‘
4 p.m.—HYPERTEXT LECTURE SERIES: ‘‘Designing a Hypertext
Database with HYPERTIES,’’ Kenneth Lambert, assistant professor of
computer science, W&L. Room 221, Commerce School. Public invited. «
4 p.m.—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Career
Alternatives. Room 109, University Center.

7:30 p.m.—WRESTLING: Generals vs. Virginia Tech. Warner +
Center.

Thursday, January 26 F
All Day—CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Resume
Critique. CD&P Office. :
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Emory & Henry. 5

 

 

 

 

COURTESY |

.. DOUG TURRELL ’87

>

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

Office: 261-2112 .
Home: 463-1952

 

For all of your automotive needs,

seemeat COURTESY FORD __
MERCURY in Buena Vista. Y

 

 
