T =7‘f'1’I'!‘.. :“7’;Iwl Lil’. HARY
In I E I_INl\«":IflSlTY
ON, VA 24460

SEP 2 7 1995

      
  

  

CI11i:’4L’ti1Ig—t1It1I Iﬂlti

1.

SEPTEMBER 27, 1996

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

VOLUME 98: NUMBER 6 WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

GENERAL
NOTES

LECTURE ON FAIRNESS:

Stephen Bright, director of the Southern Center for Human
Rights in Atlanta, will deliver the annual John Randolph
Tucker Lecture on Friday, October 4, at 12:10 p.m. His lecture
is titled “Is Fairness Irrelevant? Indifference to Fundamental
Rights in State Courts and the Evisceration of Federal Habeas
Courpus”. The Tucker Lecture, traditionally a part of Home-
coming Weekend, will be presented in the Moot Courtroom of
Lewis Hall. A '

Bright has been the director of the Center for Human Rights
since 1982. He has also been the J. Skelly Wright Fellow and
Visiting Lecturer in Law at Yale Law School, and the Visiting
Law Lecturer at the Harvard Law School. In addition, he was
awarded the Kutak—Dodds Prize by the National Legal Aid &
Defender Association, the Roger Baldwin Medal of Liberty by
the American Civil Liberties Union, and the John Minor
Wisdom Professionalism and Public Service Award by the
American Bar Association’s Section on Litigation.

HOMECOMINIG '96:

This year, Washingotn and Lee’s Homecoming activities
on Oct. 4-5 will include the annual Atheletic Hall of Fame
banquet and induction ceremony on Friday Evening. The
inductee’s are: Harry Moran ‘13, Al Perotti ‘23, Rowland
Thomas ‘36, Emerson Dickman ‘37, all deceased; Lea Booth’
40, and Tom Fuller ‘42.

Homecoming at W&L also coincides with the Five—Star
General’s reunion for classes that graduated more than 50
years ago. Other activities will include a Friday afternoon
seminar in duPont Hall, a memorial service on Saturday
morning in Lee Chapel, and a post-game reception at the
Alumni House on Saturday afternoon.

Other activities will include the Homecoming parade on
Saturday, Oct. 5 at 11:30 a.m. An alumni luncheon with the
faculty will follow on the Front Lawn at 12 noon. The football

 

‘game against Rnadolph-Macon will take place at 2 p.m.

MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR LEE:

A memorial service marking the 126th anniversary of
Robert E. Lee’s death will be held at 11:05 a.m. on Saturday,
Oct. 12, in Lee Chapel. Noted Civil War historian Charles P.
Roland will be the guest speaker. Also participating in the
service will be the Liberty Hall Volunteers and the Washing-
ton and Lee Chamber Singers. Earlier in the day, at 9:30 a.m.,
the bells of Lee Chapel will be tolled commemorating the
hour of Lee’s death in 1870.

Charles Roland is Alumni Professor Emeritus from the
University of Kentucky. He also taught at Tulane University
from 1952 to 1970, serving as history department chair from
1967-70. -He has also taught as visiting professor at the US.-
Military History Institute and the Army War College, and the
U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Roland will also
deliver a public lecture on Thursday, Oct. 10, at 8 p.m. in
Room 327 of the C School. The topic will be “Robert E. Lee
and the Leadership of Character”.

JAZZ AT THE LENFEST:

Sonoklect, W&L’s festival of 20th-century music, opens
a new season on Saturday, Sept. 28, at 8 p.m. in Lenfest
Center with a jazz concert. A reception will follow. A jazz
quartet composed of trombonist Tom Lundberg, saxophonist
Fred Koch, drummer Michael Vosbein, and bassist Terry

1 Vosbein will perform selections from Thelonius Monk and
Duke Ellington.

The visiting musicians will also conduct master classes
with students and the newly formed W&L Jazz Ensemble.
Terry Vosbein, the new director of Sonoklect, has planned
many changes. In addition the number of concerts, he is
E shifting the emphasis of Sonoklect to include jazz as well as
major works from earlier composers of the 20th century.

GLASGOW READING:

.1 The Glasgow Endowment Program will present a reading
by novelist John Gregory Brown on Tuesday, Oct. 8, at 4
p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

Brown’s ﬁrst novel, Decorations in a Ruined Cemetery,
received the 1994 Lillian Smith Award and the 1996 Steinbeck
,1 Award. He also received a Lyndhurst Prize. His second
novel, The Wrecked, Blessed Body of Shelton Lafleur was
published earlier this year. He is currently working on his
third novel, Audubon’s Watch, about the ornithologist and
artist John James Audubon. He currently holds the Julia
Jackson Nichols Chair in English and Creative Writing at
Sweet Briar College.

1 F OPINION

Rats or Road Cheese? Betsy ponders female
cadets. Education issues in '96 elections. page 2

* > FEATURES

The Ring Tum Phi Features pagesalutes women

this week with C.E. Miller's look at the ever-growing
I popularity of cool chicks with cool tattoos... D.F.

Odenwald examinesthelifeofanAmericanwoman...

And A.E.Christensen is gob-smacked by Gwyneth

Paltrow's performance in Jane Austin's Emma.
1* page 3

F sponrs

Soccer teams have triumphant
50th anniversary weekend.’

 

‘ Football succumbs at Guilford.
Club horseback riding team to
show-off in October. Eric
Zavolinsky debuts from above.

¢ page 8

 

Photo courtesy of W. Patrick Hinely

Rats eating lunch. They are allowed to look only at their plates, must lift their food only at right angles, and are required to
thoroughly chew and swallow eaach bite before cutting and lifting the next one. Female cadets will be subject to the same "VMI

experience" as males.

Save the males?

VMI move to privatize flounders

BY ANNE ALVORD
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

On Saturday, September 21, to a
crowded room of reporters, alumni and
other interested parties, Virginia Mili-
tary Institute announced the decision of
its Board of Visitors to admit women.
The decision was made in light of the
Supreme Court’s June 26 decision that
the institute must admit women or give
up state funding.

The Supreme Court decision ended a
six year battle that began when the Jus-
tice Department sued in 1990 over the
school’s all-male policy.

The decision of the Board of Visitors
came despite strident opposition from
alumni, which was expressed as late as
Friday evening at a public hearing. Those

" opposed to co-education advocated

privatizationasameansto keeptheschool
all male. In the end this solution was
rejected because of legal and financial
considerations. To privatize the school
would have had to raise $200 million to
make up for the loss of state funding, and
would also likely have had to purchase
the grounds of the institute, which would
have cost an additional $137 million.
The final vote on the issue was 9-8 in
favor of co-education, and was arrived at
when the board reached a deadlock at 8-
8 and Chair William W. Berry, President

I‘

of the Board of Visitors and a 1954
graduate of VMI, had to break the tie.

The vote resulted in five members of
the opposition makes a rebuttal to the
majority decision. In a prepared state-
ment which represented this minority
view, Anita Blair stated that “The major-
ity has chosen a course that makes poor
use of Virginia’s educational resources.
TheﬁnancialcostofmodifyingVMl’sphysi-
cal plant is vastly disproportionate to the
beneﬁtofeducatingatiny numberofwomen
who might be interested in attending VMl.”

Changing to a co—ed institution will
cost approximately $5.7 million. This
includes the physical changes required to
preserve ‘physical dignity’ and for the
hiring of additional staff. VMI will ask
the state to fund these changes.

The physical changes needed will in-
clude half shades on barracks windows,

A which will be used only when the cadets

are changing and will be open at all other
times and the addition of women’s show-
ers. Additionally, therewill be rules against
cadets dating outside their own classes.
The school will not treat women dif-
ferently than men. Superintendent Josiah
Bunting III expressed his view that “fully
qualified women would themselves feel
demeaned by any relaxation in the stan-
dards the VM I system imposes on young
men.” Women will live in barracks with
all other cadets and locks will not be

installed on the doors. Female rats will
receive buzz cuts, as do their male coun-
terparts and they will be required to meet
the same academic and physical require-
ments as men. The physical requirements
include five pull ups, sixty sit-ups in two
minutes and a two-and-a-half-mile run in
twelve minutes. As underthe current system,
those who do not meet the physical require-
ments will not fail out of school, but will
receive special assistance in meeting them.

Requiring men and women to meet
the same standards will distinguish VMI
from The Citadel and the military acad-
emies, where the standards are different.
When asked if he thought having the
same standards was what Supreme Court
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg, who wrote
the majority decision on the case, in-
tended when she said that the VMI sys-
tem is not inherently impossible for
women, Bunting said that they are “tak-
ing her at her word.”

VMI has not yet made any specific
plan for co-education. They will create a
plan in the coming months which will
have to be submitted to the federal justice
in Roanoke. One question remaining to
be answered is how to deal with sexual
harassment, but as Bunting said, it’s too
early to say what they will do.

After the press conference,
Firstclassman Brian Bagwan, Regimen-
tal Comander, felt confident that there

would be little negative reaction from the
corps. “Some will be more disappointed
than others, but I don’t expect anything se-
vere. We won’t be picketing out in front of
barracks,” he said, “this isn’t Berkley.”

He is certain the corp will push
through. “It’s a question of wait and
see,” he said, adding, “At least now we
know where we’re going. When asked if
he was surprised by the decision, he
replied, ‘‘It wasn’t inconceivable, but I
wouln’t say I expected it. As you can see
by the vote, no one knew what was going
to happen.”

Since the announcement, approxi-
mately 80 applications have been sent
out to women interested in joining next
year’s entering class. VMI is hoping to
have between 8 and 15 percent women in
their next class. Admissions will be gen-
der blind.

One positive result of the decision is
the donation of a $10 million scholarship
by an anonymous alumnus. The scholar-
ship will be named in honor of General
George C. Marshall and will be awarded
to male or female students. When asked
whether he thought alumni contribu-
tions, which currently make up about one
third of VMI’s operating funds, would be
negatively affected by co-education,
Bunting pointed to this donation as an
indication that donations will not change
or will even increase.

lost of lettuceiand tomato. They ’rc also putting more
unces of in ’t’ sandwi hes, Causing the price

‘ Darrellsaid; that overall prices in the co-op have
sen because of food costs. This summer, Dining *
ervices examined how much food cost them, some-. A

hing they hadn’t done in two or three years, and had?

ordingl ark- pthe prices to meet overhead
 A A Snac ,-1_3ar-r»man‘ag‘er Don Burgess
sa d they’lAl_Atinker with thejco-op:,t

they Avgorkr thejkinks out. Look forward’?

of ndwiche I

» Evans Dining .Hall.Aj Onesswipe’ of he

‘ -cardlstill, getsiyou buffet styAIeIeI_itr s;
side dishes, desserts, salad bar and veg-
etarian center. V "

The new snac_kebarand GHQ may »
not be perfect, but the people in Dining. 
‘Servicesare willing tolisten and make, .
improvements. Comment ‘cards are 
available, and so_ori._a survey. will be; .

» circulatedtoon-campus residents to ﬁnd?‘ 3

 A outwhatwouldtheywouldlik t
ho bySAamI.evine tl1eGHQ_‘ - " * I ~.

For hundreds of W&L and VMI students The
Chessie Trail is a relaxing place for afternoon runs;
however, one female W&L student encountered a
shocking surprise last week.

“Even though I wasn’t physically harmed,” said
the victim, “itwas very upsetting to see something so
disturbing on a well-used trail.”

The student was jogging alone on The Chessie
Trail, the foot path behind Woods Creek Apartments
which runs by the VMI tennis courts, when she
noticed a white male in his 20’s sitting on an em-
bankment. As she passed him, he placed his hands
on his crotch and asked her if she wanted to watch.
The student ignored him and ran to the W&L secu-
rity office.

The student was only able to provide a vague
description of the subject: a white male, light brown
or dark blond hair, 5 foot 6 inches to 5 foot 8 inches

 

tall, wearing a tee shirt, blue ‘athletic shorts and a
white baseball cap.

The security office immediately notified the Lex-
ington Police about the harrassment and they are
currently running down leads.

According to Chief Michael Young, head of
W&L security, similar incidents have occurred in
the past. “Try to run with a friend,” encouraged
Young. “Normally these encounters occur when a
student is alone and the offender wants to provoke a
reaction. There may be no intent to cause injury, but
we don’t want to run any risks. We are taking this
very seriously.”

Young reminds students to be aware of any strang-
ers that they may encounter on any area of the
campus. “Anyone who sees suspicious activity
needs to call us immediately.”

-- notice compiled by Phi News Co-Editor Tarah Grant

 

  

FPAGE2
APO i

BY ANDREA EWING
PHI STAFF WRITER

Alpha Phi Omega, the co-ed ser-
.vice fraternity, initiated the first
pledge class of the Washington
and Lee 1996-1997 school year
last night. The pledge class of 18
included freshmen and sopho-
mores, and was the largest of Al-
pha Beta Tau’s 10 year history.
APO is the only greek organiza-
tion the universtiy allows to rush
and intitiate pledges in the fall
term. All other greek organiza-
tions must hold rush and
pledgeship duringthe winter term.
APO took this oppprtunity to at-
tract a larger pledgeclass than was
possible whilethe fraternites were

also holding their rush. The
pledge ceremony capped off a
week of rush activities. '

A trip to Goshen on Saturday Sep-
tember 21st began the week with
APO brothers and rushees meet-
ing one another for the first time.
The location served as back-
ground to meet new friends and
discuss the questions potential
pedges raised. Everyone met
again on Sunday at 1:00 p.m. in
front ofthe Baker-Davis-Gilliam,
Quad to climb into cars and head
to the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

, Many agreed that the SPCA was

their favorite rush activity. Fresh-
man Moinka Porazinski com-
mented, I enjoyed helping lonely
animals in need.

Juniors meet the players
in the W&L network

BY ANNE ALVORD
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

ver 130 members of the

junior class filed into the

Great Hall of the science

center last night to learn the finer

points of internships. Those who at-

tended heard accounts of past interns

positions from about 30 students,

mostly seniors, learned about the pro-

cess of finding and applying for in-

ternships and met with alumni intern-
ship sponsored.

The attendance was astounding to
the sponsors, the Career Development
and Placement Office, the Alumni
Office and the Management Depart-
ment, who expected they would draw
about 50 to 75 students.

This was the first year that such an
event was held and the sponsors hope
to make it an annual event. During the
opening remarks, Hatton Smith, ’73,
president of the Alumni Board, dis-
cussed how to network and the value
of the Washington and Lee network.
“The W&L'network is astounding,”
he said,“ Where did the CEO of Time
go? How about the CEO of Southern

Living? Does anyone use Mennen .

aftershave? Guess where Jeff Mennen
went to school.” Further, he asked,
“Do you know what school has more
CEOs per capita than any other school
in the country?”

After the opening remarks the at-

  
     
     
    
     
    

The Calyx,

W&L’S yearbook, is looking for an
ADVERTISING MANAGER

Low time commitment,
great resume fodder

If interested, please call Darcey
Livingston, 462-4559

APPLY NOW

Once a qualified applicant is found, the
position will be filled

 

tendees broke into smaller groups with
alumni and students who had intem-
ships last summer. In one group,
Peter Sheppard, ’72, President of R.H.
Sheppard&Co., Inc. talked about what
his company strives to offer interns.
He strives for his interns to ‘actually
do something’, and not have them be
ofﬁce gophers. Students answered
questions about finding internships,
relocating and the work they did in
their internships.

After the break-off meetings the
entire group reconvened in the Great
Hall for a reception, at which those
who attended the session were en-
couraged to try out their networking
skills.

Internships provide students with
work experience in their ﬁelds and
make them more attractive to pos-
sible employers when they enter the
job market.

For further assistance in ﬁnding
internships, students should attend one
of the internship workshops offered
by the CDPO, which are targeted to
particular interest areas, liberal arts/
fine arts, C-school, sciences and com-
munications.

The CDPO has resources that pro-
vide information about a variety of
internships and the alumni sponsored
internship program. Internships can
be found in fields from theater to
business and government to the sci-
ences.

  

$200-$500 WEEKLY

Mailing travel brochures.
No experience necessary.

  
    

   
     
     
   

 

For information send a self-addressed
stamped envelope to

Internet Travel
P.O. Box 680610
Miami, FL 33268

ooaaaoooaanooaaonooaaoeaaa§§§eoooa§§a
ELARGEST STUDENT TRAVEL PLANNER§

“‘ on East Coast looking for Campus Rep to
promote Kodak SPRING BREAK trips
“Guaranteed” lowest package prices and
best incentives. You handle the sales...we
handle the bookkeeping. Cancun, Nassau,
Jamaica, S. Padre, Orlando &.Key West.
EARN BIG $$$ AND/OR FREE
TRIP(S),,,GREAT FOR RESUME!!!

- - -4432
mineno<::riiE9i%iI~§i§:Jn%:n8o0oi)¢:i§iTr§oooneraaaaanna

 

oaaaaaanoaaaaaanae
ﬁeeeeeeeeeoeeeeeoee

NEws

On Tuesday, a pizza patry in
Fairfax Lounge again provided an
opportunity for futher communi-
cation and bonding. The chapter
provided free pizza and soda to
grateful rush candidates. Heather
Schweninger, APO president felt
the pizza party was succesful,
Because it ga.ve everyone a chance

*Eib.RN EXTRA |NCDME*
Earn $200 - $500 weeklg
mailing phone cards. For
information send a self-
acldressecl stamped envelope to:
|nc.,

P.0. Box 0887
Miami, FL 33164

nitiates largest pledge class in

to talk, and we had a good repre-
sentation of potential pledges and
brothers. '

Yesterday evening’s pledge cer-
emony culminated the rush week.
Brothers led the initates into the
Game Room of the University
Center for a period of meditation.
The pledges were then blindfolded

The Ring-tum Phi,

SEPTEMBER 27 , 1996

chapter history

and led to Lee Chapel. The two
serparate locations served as a
new way ofholdingthetraditional
ceremony. Schweniger notedthat
Lee Chapel integrated the tradi-
tions of Washington and Lee with
Alpha Beta Tau chapter and
empasized the formality of the
pledge ceremony. Lee Chapel

I impressed newly initiated pledges

as well. Freshmen Joyce Lee and
Michael Peningo concurred that
no one expected the change of
locations. Porazinski stated, “It
was very smbolic.” After the cer-
emony the new plege class headed
to Sweet Things for free ice cream
provided by APO.

Rl{SliAR(‘.H A'SS()(1lA'l'li TRAININI; '7‘PRo(;Rr\i\i

THE CHOSEN FEW.  

YOUR ONLY CHOICE
FOR LOCAL NEWS

The Rockbridge Report

Cable Channel Two
Monday - Thursday
5:30

our business.

best in the business.

motes a drug-tree workplace.

V V 

Circuit City, the nation’s largest brandmame consumer electronics
and appliance retailer, has excellent opportunities available in our
Financial Trainee Program at our Corporate Headquarters in

Richmond, VA. We have enjoyed significant financial success over
the years and we strongly believe our people are the very essence of

What does this mean for you? Responsibility, personal growth and
success, and your input and advice at all levels. The Firiancial
Trainee Program immediately entrusts you with substantial financial
and supervisory responsibilities. it is structured so that you work and
gain exposure to a wide variety of financial discipliries -- from Cash
Management and Budgeting to Accounting and Corporate Finance.
You'll learn lhepdynamics of our Corporate environment, develop your
business and financial skills. and gain invaluable experience from the

if you’re an ambitious, creative team player completing a four-year,
business-‘related college degree, check us out when we’re on cam-
pus, it will be the best career move you can make.

RESUMES MUST BE SUBMITTED TO THE
CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE BY:

TUESDAY. OCTOBER. 8. 1996
Washingtoii and Lee University

 

A limited number oi positions are also available at our Marietta, GA
location. Circuit City is an Equal Opportunity Employer and pro-

YOUR IDEAS. YOUR‘
AMBITEON.
"YOUR ENERGY.

OURTRAINING . . .:
YOUR FUTURE.

  

 

CIRCUIT CITY

L4’?-we Snrwcc II Siam i.-«fins Art ».

 

 

 

 

PAGE 3

Portrait of an American woman

Dan Odenwald
Features Editor

Isabel Connor is standing in front of
the Laundromat’s washer pulling out
her wet clothes. She folds them neatly
and puts them into her basket.

“I never use the dryers,” says the 83-
year-old Lexington resident. “I hang
them on the line. I’ve always done it
thatway. Ilike the smell of the airin my
clothes.”

Her hands are covered with purple
age spots. She’ll tell you she’s going
deaf in her right ear, but most people
know she’s really going deaf in both.
But if you talk clearly enough, she can
understand you. And Isabel loves to
talk. Boy, does she love to talk...

“VMI is a man’s school - it always
has been,” she says deﬁantly. ‘‘I don’t
know much about this women’s move-
ment, but it’s just a man’s school.”

Born in Rockbridge County in 1913,
she’s the second oldest daughter of ten
children — seven girls and three boys.
Her mother owned a farm and when
Isabel wasn’t in school she was helping
out with the chores. Milking the cows
was her favorite. In those days, physi-
cal labor wasn’t something just reserved
for work. Indeed, Isabel remembers
walking eight miles to school every-
day.

“Back in those days we didn’t have
school buses,” she remarks. “We didn’t
have computers, a television or even a
McDonalds.’’

The uniform for female students was
strict: long dresses, stockings, and boots.
Only her face and hands were allowed
to be naked.

When Isabel completed school, she
went to work at the naval base in
Quantico, Virginia. - She worked in the
ofﬁcer’s club, which she loved. Her
mother would send her cured hams, a
gentle remedy for a homesick farm-
girl. Isabel appreciated her mother’s
kindness, but she wouldn’t eat them.
Instead, she used the hams to make
sandwiches and “gave them to the boys.”

“The boys were from all over the
States,” remembers Isabel. “Some
didn’t even know what a cured ham
was.”

In 1941, Isabel left Quantico for
Aberdeen, Maryland where she worked

C.E. Miller
Phi Staff Writer

You’ve come a long way baby!

Many young women are choosing body
piercing and tattoos as an intimate form of self-
expression. Even at Washington and Lee, ha-
ven of conservative values and ideas, women
are pierced, and many possess intimate tattoos.

According to Eddie, a Roanoke tattoo artist
at Ancient Art, many of his clients are young
women, 18-25 years in age. The stigma of
having a pierced nose or body art has all but
disappeared.

Junior Megan Johnson had her navel pierced
her senior year in high school.

“It took about six months to convince my
parents that (piercing) wasn’t going to kill me
or permanently scar,” said Johnson.

Since she was 17 at the time, the shop she
visited required parental permission. Although,
Virginia doesn’t require parental permission,
any reputable shop will request permission
before piercing or tattooing.

Sunda Wells, a junior, has an ankle tattoo.
She also had to get parental permission.

“When I got my tattoo, I was the only one in
my group of friends. It was a way for me to be
unique, sort of an expression of my personal-
ity.”
Eddie feels that women tattoo for more
personal reasons that men.

“A woman will come in and want it in a more
sexual place. Men, generally come in groups
and tattoo someplace that can be easily shown
of ,” said Eddie. '

Wells feels that many people are copying a
lot of celebrities in getting tattoos. Drew
Barrymore has a prominent tattoo above her
belly-button, and Pamela Anderson has sev-
eral, one of which is her husband’s name around
her finger.

“I think that if I ever got a second tattoo, it
would be of a more personal nature. It can be a
true expression of yourself, and it is a lifetime

commitment,” said Well_s. _
Johnson has never seriously considered get-

ting pierced in another place.

“I don’t want to pierce anything on my face.
It is also just seems really painful, and I am kind
of a wimp,” said Johnson.

There are no classes one can take to learn
how to pierce or tattoo. According to Eddie, it
is an apprenticeship. Talented artists, don’t
necessarily do well as tattoos. He also feels that
many shops ignore the health aspects of pierc-

 
 
    

ing. Ancient Art Tattoo has been in Roanoke
for 25 years. They pride themselves on a
safety-conscious personnel and educating the
public about tattoos and piercing.

“I feel like 10 years ago there was all this
mystery surrounding tattoos and piercing. I
want to clear up things for people. You need to
know what you are getting into and how to
protect yourself against health hazards,” said
Eddie.

Many states, such as New York, have made
tattooing illegal. One reason for this was the
scare that it would spread diseases such as
hepatitis B. - ‘ ‘

Before you jump on the tattoo and piercing P‘

bandwagon, check out the establishment thor-
oughly. Many cheaper artists are available, but
that usually means the person is not well-trained.

“Don’t skimp a few bucks on something that
will last you a lifetime,” said Eddie. '

1-Z-3-4

get yo’
ooty

ON DA FLO’

Amy Kane
Phi Staff Writer

Youcancallthemdancers.Youcancallthem
entertainers. But, whatever you do, don’t call
them cheerleaders. Rather than leading cheers,
the R.E.Belles will be receiving them.

“We are not cheerleaders,” Cheryl Puzon,
president of Washington and Lee’s new dance
team, said. “We are there to entertain and
support the Generals.” I

The R.E.Belles are recruiting students in-
terested in performing highly-stylized dance
routinesduring men’s home basketball games.

The dance team will hold its first of three
clinics 1:30 p.m. Saturday on the third ﬂoor
of DuPont Hall. The first clinic will focus on
skills, while the later clinics, to be held in
October and November, will team members_
the dances for performances.

The team’s clinics are open to everyone,
regardlessof experience. Vice President Kathy
Dusse said team members will work with
those who are interested in performing the
jazz, funk and drill routines.

The R.E.Belles will debut December 4,
when the men’s basketball team plays
Hampden-Sydney college. They are slated to
perfonn at four other home games and are
scheduling other perfomtances which may
include the Virginia Military Institute/Wash-
ington and Lee Basketball Classic, a women’s
basketball game and the Lexington Christ-
mas parade.

Last year, an attempt was made at forming
the dance team, but the group next got started
due to scheduling conﬂicts, Puzon said. W&L
Dance,which emphasizes artistic danceform,
began last year. Puzon said when she visited
campus as a prospective student she attended
a basketball game and saw there were no
performance outlets for dancers. As a former
drill team captain, she still wanted to per-
form and found others with that desire. She
said the team’s purpose other than entertain-
ing at basketball games and supporting the
Generals is to provide dancers with perfor-
mance opportunities.

at a naval base. She was there on the
day when the Japanese bombed Pear
Harbor.

“It was a terrible day. It made your
stomach turn over,” she recalls.

During the war, Isabel worked in
the civilian corps on the naval base.
Among her duties were repairing war-
ravaged airplanes and stuffing para-
chute packs.

To lighten spirits, she and herfriends
used to play jokes on the G.l.s. Some-
times she included a note in the para-
chute packs which read: If this doesn’t
open, just come back and get a new
one. The prank still makes her chuckle
ﬁfty-ﬁve years later.

Isabel became quite skilled at re-
pairing plane engines. In fact, she
learned it so well that she became one
of the best. Isabel also learned how to
ﬂy, but her bosses wouldn’t let her
“because she was a civilian.” Although
her secret talent may have surprised
some, Isabel never thought of herself
as particularly special.

“I always just went ahead and did
it,” she said. “I neverthought I couldn’t
do it. After all, it’s not hard to do if you
like it.” —

Afterthe war, Isabel returned home.
She married in 1952. Although she
never had kids (“God didn’t intend it”),
Isabel quit work and took care of her
husband. She never liked housework,
but she knew she would never return to
the days of repairing warplanes.

later, Isabel took on some light
work at VMI’s tailor shop. During her
tenure, she was able to see two neph-
ews graduate from the corps. Most of
her memories of VMI are fond, but she
does remember feeling sorry for the
rats.

“Those boys would just get up in
their faces — a couple of inches away
from their noses —-— and just yell at
them all day long,” Isabel says. “I
wanted to go overto them and pull their
hats down around their ears.

Like most of Lexington, Isabel was
shocked to hear the Supreme Court
ruling that VMI must admit women.
According to Isabel, Virginia’s already
got enough women’s schools.

“Women are all right,” she argues.
“It’sjust that it’s always been a man’s
school.” ‘

Furthermore, she believes that

women will interfere with the school’s

tradition.

‘‘I don’t think they’ll make it,” she
says. “Ladies just aren’t ladies any-
more. I mean, how will you be ableto
tell a woman apart from a man?”

Isabel admits that she’s old and set
in her ways. So, it was especially hard
on her when her husband of 41 years
passed away three years ago.

Nevertheless, she continues to plug
on. She gets tired easily these days, but
that doesn’t stop her from going to the
Presbyterian church every Sunday.
Today, she’s going to drop off some
children’s books at the library. She
found them neara dumpsterin Fairfield
and cleaned them up for others to use.

Isabel’s got a lot to do. As she

prepares to leave the Laundromat, she
puts her (still wet) clothes in the back of her
1968 Chevette. She’s had the car for 28
years and even though automobile collec-
tors keep oﬁering to buy it from her, she
likes it and has no plans of selling it.
“One man from Salem offered to

buy my hubcaps,” she recalls. “I asked -

him, ‘What do you think my car will

...-.-...-«nu

look like without hubcaps?”’ _

Isabel gently climbs into the drivers
seat and eases the giant car out into the_
parking lot. As the red brake lights
ﬁnally dim, the car makes its way out
onto the road. 1

Inside, Isabel begins to plan the rest;
of her day —— an ordinary day in the
ordinary life of an American lady. T

»

    

4- ¢ - ¢,o_§'_« . .- -r_«. -3.3,» ¢_-"jﬁ « 1- v 5415}. air-vv.v‘,»a,-vgv,.«.z

 

 

 

 

FPAGE 4

FEATURES

The Ring-tum Phi, SEPTEMBER 27, 1996

Emma: a graceful, comic star turn

  

     

   
 

 

5
ALEX CHRISTENSEN and Sensibility and above Clueless, because they were perceived as too under each surface expression, and concern of her good friend. Harriet
Phi MOVIE CRITIC which was based partially upon the serious or specialized in interest to every once in awhile one of them falls victim to Emma’s matrimonial Q
  of 4 same story.’ To rank it third of fouris Austen aficionados (probably. not re- breaks out.and spinswildly out of machinations, but ultimately takes
not at all to denigrate it. Persuasion ally very good reasons to avoid these control,taking the audience, the other control of her own life again and is
t _ d   Gwyneth PaltrOW,the m0StbeaUti- and S&S were four-star affairs all the great films), Emma should not be a characters, and, seemingly, Paltrow able to move forward both with her
S ars’ e g ful woman in the world, has made way through, and Clueless was one of cause for concern on these counts. herself with it. It is a revelation to new-found self-confidence and her
another movie. I Suppose l’ll go On themostenjoyable moviesoflastsum- While preserving the Austen ﬂavor watch. friendship with Emma intact. Juliet }
now andtell you about it and stufflike mer. Emma is different from all three. quite faithfully, Emma has neverthe- Allofthe Austen novels have strong Stevenson (Truly, Madly, Deeply) is
_ that, but really, that first sentence It is lighter, bubblier, and fits most less been adapted to the screen by and wellwritten parts for their female wonderfully conceited as Mrs. Elton.
The PltChI Should be enough to lure y0u t0 the closely into the genre of “romantic screenwriter/directorDou- . Phyllida Law and Sophie
theater some time this Weekend. comedy,” though it does explore the glas McGrath, a former Thompson, Sense and
“It’II bC  One _ Emma,thefourthintheJaneAusten same intricaciesofclassstructure and “Saturday Night Live” Sensibility screenwriter Q
film explosion of the last few years the social graces as Persuasion and writer and Oscar—nomi- and actress Emma
ten (after Cll4€[€5S,P€’rSW5i0”,5€'lS€ and S&S. nated co-writer with Thompson’s mother and
of thern Aus Sensibility-can N0rthange‘rAbbey& In fact,whilethere mighthavebeen Woody Allen of 1994’s sister, respectively, pro-
. 9» C. be far be)’0ﬂd7), ranks in quality a tendency for some people to avoid BulletsOverBroadway,in vide the comic relief and
rnovles somewhat after Persuasion and Sense. the two previous direct adaptations a marvelously funny and much more. Polly Walker Q
accessible way. is mysteriously “elegant”
The performances de- as Jane Fairfax, and Greta
serve at least as much Scacchi plays Emma’s
' . ' creditasthescreenwriting. governess and substitute
. ., . » ; .. . To hold up the kind of motherwith great feeling. I
IF     T  subtly tinged banter and Collette and Thompson’s
. ' ' ' ‘ - » alsocredibly putacrossthe performances could earn
I  A     very deep subtext which them serious Oscar con-
‘ _ _ , _ ' ' . ' . . ' I ' - both inhabit the story is sideration as well. .
l  ‘     something that requires Luckily, the men are
’ ' great acting stamina and morethan upto the task of
an intelligent analysis of acting against this formi-
the characters. This kind dable group of actresses. 1
of care with the material Jeremy Noitham (TheNet)
has been taken, and the is charming and bemused
i::°:;S.:;:::.“‘"a“"ga““  »
. . i y.
Gwyneth Paltrow de- McGregor (Shallow
serves the first mention. Grave, Trainspotting)
Certainly a shoo-in for an lights up the screen and
Oscar nomination for her providesenough weightto '
portrayal, of Emma make the complications
Woodhouse, a young his arrival brings believ-
womanwithtoo much time able. And Alan Cumming
on her hands who turns to is a slimy, icky Elton.
match-making quite un- lfPersuasionandSense V
‘ sulcceslsfugy, Ealtrow 2l11b- arfzzf)Serz:jibility1were.laswigf
_, ,_ _ ‘  N I, .3 .’ , , ,,_, ..   ._, so ute _ominates t is 0 ran an a asso
f“"3(.l<1-‘W 3»’lif0’?'9 {"55" be ’"5’5$3'9‘75’{”€‘ (‘*7 I‘-""""‘~"’3t‘ Q5?! EM 'j,iQd;dt.r0" Mifmfii  id emf: J’ film wi)tlh her fine Perfor-   red wine): and C%ueles5,
1,-;\»,_..;,',,_.,-, ;r“;,,9,, 393,/ni no; A,-may ..;,:z~,one can boom? f;iit‘(1’-.'b'ii(i uI?l;Il’ilié.°(l 0;.-;3cr..:..n,es, ,i..m t. anti E t I W like area“ umm drink
f as 8:;/L’ if y<ii:"r<+ exc‘epi2';;sna/,‘y snjarr, t'a>z;i_;}‘_i 0 %,mn<>.'. if ycizi want «.2 oareer tiiats ea wo:i’c: aoar! m3“Ce- mm3 W )’8T0 ? . _ a Y Y Y
gm; f,,.€,,m,,,,,,{; .,i,(.,,r. Cgfﬂffsy {"a,,,.';,yc»,m- 5(~;,,5C,; f,-an, gm. ,;,,ov,‘,,_.-,,,y<, _,-W if y{;u«,,e¢_a 903 ;»,~;;;;{ if as a person from the beginning to the characters, and the women of Emma with one of those cute umbrellas, then ‘
,«OC-5_;"W,;i[  ?:,£?£:'3 ,.,,i,,‘,.¢, y.,..,u'C'§,, p,.C_,,,€, .,.>,.;,,.3;;,6., (3, ,,,,~W,,,,,,>,,,.,.;,y1,.i.oi..mt takes to aid in try}; Com.panj,« end of the film, and Paltrow’s ability are without exception excellent. Toni Emma is a glass of champagne. Just
' ' » to show this transformation hour by Collette(MurielofMuriel’s Wedding), enough to get you pleasantly tipsy.
M A R! N E 0 F F 1C E R hour and day by day is amazing. plays Harriet Smith muchlike Muriel, And Gwyneth Paltrow is the most
' . I. er eant  Paltrow is an actress who has eleven an ugly duckling who allows herself beautiful woman in the world.
Meet Captain Harwell and Gunne   g different conﬂicting emotions riding to be brought out of her shell by the E
from 17 am to 1 pm at Evans Dining Hall on
October 2, 7996 or Call L800-542-585 7
for more information.
I
I
O I
S : V
I O r
; 3.
K
 IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START -
 ' LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. I
§ iiﬁil ;-il7l"m'tl in .<:ﬂ\’tf for i'etii'i‘:u'ici’it".’ liven ll‘_V't)ll’l'(’.' not L"mii1tii'ig' tlic §’(.‘.’.lI‘.‘§ tn
 ‘lilac l{'lElI": is. “\_.’l'>E.t tum’! ;1l'l'm‘(.l mat to. riztircmcrit. yuti (.'(.m tT0t.lni on 'l‘l.~'\1\--Cl{l‘:l“
 Not wlurn bx-‘ox: iezilize that ‘X/DUI‘ i"t=-t'ii'einent to lwlp3.'(>ii lmilil the l‘Ui'L1l°(' ‘you (l(‘.~‘a{¥I‘\/(f -
 (‘gin l;i;\:i- go to :"tt')_}-’t_‘.dl"8 or ll\i‘)Y'€':. Ymfll warn" with l'l<:xil.xle i‘etireiiieiit itml tax-<lcl‘<'r‘i‘c:<l ’
 to live: at It?4'.i:5’. a.~.z t.‘()lTlI't.ll’I£tI)I“," {lien as _\/ou emnuily‘ plans, :1 (.ll‘Vi,‘l‘S(' pm'tfolio of iiwes:-
 do now. .-‘\ncl tl:;'it' '('(ll€t‘.~& pl.-aim}:-ig. ineni cl1oic:csa, anti it l"(.”<‘.UI‘tl 0|‘ persoiml
 l"»_\-‘ st.1ix‘ting to .sa\'c IICI-\’\'. ,yi)u ctzui lZ.Il’x(f ecmvitfe (lint :.2.pe.:ns  (\,";“{{l‘$.
I‘ aiilsaiitiige of tux f_l&‘l‘t,‘l‘¥’<’.il (mil give your’ Over L8 rriilliou pcctsplc in t‘('luC£tliUX) ii¥!(l V
YI'1()t"»1“\.’ time to i:<:>x'r1pnmu.l .2sri<l ;_;_rm\'. t‘t?Sat-Pi-tl‘ifl\ put 'l"l:\»\-C§{l‘ll“ at the top of ‘ f ' . - V ’ I
(.:&)tl:%l(I\‘f‘ this: Set Zt.V7l(It;‘ just $100 cucli iliisir list‘ for ¥‘&’lll"L’li‘t(‘11€ pl;1i'iiiii‘1g_;. \IV"‘l'l~\‘ not ‘
mimtli lmg,_~ii'iiiii1g in zagt:  é‘Ll1vI.I‘\.’L}l1’k’£\l1 ioii1‘th::iii‘.’ ‘ ‘ .   
i'L(‘t.'.‘ll!lllll;£1't’ i.‘:\=ei‘ Si’/*2 ,ti>t)* by ilic time Laill t(>(‘lay (incl l(‘(1l‘|‘1 how >‘-ll‘i"ipl4.‘ it IS
,\-’x:aL1 i"(ri.ii7li zt,g._‘(r (>43. Uni‘ wail ten __\re;u".< aml to lmilil £1 sct.'iii'tr t<.)umi"i‘ow \-\’Il(;‘l1 jam '
L‘,v’i'.)l.1‘lI have to lmtlgci 53219 €.‘£'t(‘I:1 rriomli l¥t1\‘L" tltT1L’ and 'l'l.~\.-\-CREE’ xv<)i‘l<.in,g on . d S b 2
IO l‘L‘£1(‘l) IIJL" SIHXIL? gkiikl. "\’(')l.l!‘ Séllltl. I     7
Sim=:*t /ilmi:-zirigy yourfimirr. Call our 15m*0Iltm*nt Hatlim: at .1 800 842~.?888. 9 :  P . m .
 A A . O ‘
 -  the future In the Ga1nes Gatehouse
 for those who shape it.“
 0 a
"3 °.l.r.'ii:-Jim.‘ mi :«iI.'r.~( rim i-5' "5-»ii./(‘til-'.;_/"= I/'/-Bl /3": ' 2 .,. i'.»wr.~r iliigir.-r i-:Nr.- win-:.‘r“  
Q ,.,.,\.,.,,, ,,,-,-.,_.i,-, z,» .. /< h

‘ Sponsored by the Fridays! Committee

 

 
   
 

 

 

 

/The Ring-Tum Phi, snpmmam 27, 1996

 More women
  finally coming

‘to Big Lex

i

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

, for Star Wars references.

Unless you’ve been living un-
der a rock (and let’s face it, Lex-
ington is pretty damned close), you
are aware that the Supreme Court
has ruled that our next door neigh-
bor, Virginia Military Institute,
must admit women. And VMI’s
board of directors just voted to
admit women, rather than making
VMI a private school. If you think
that we’re anywhere near done talk-
ing about VMI coeducation, you’ve
got another thing coming to you.

So far I’ve seen some reactions
to the decision that have left me
less than impressed. I saw a tea-
shirt at University Sportswear that
depicted a bald woman in a yellow
and red VMI running costume
weeping. Clever, but considering
the number of male rats that drop
out in the first week, it could have

“And will

  W&L women

call these
women road
cheese also?”

well been a weeping bald male.

There are bumper stickers all
over town. One I saw said, “Im-
peach Darth Bader,” referring to
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsberg, who wrote the majority
opinion for the case. I will admit,
it is kind of funny . . . I’m a sucker
But
shouldn’t a good soldier respect
the laws of their country? Just a
thought.

My favorite bumper sticker,
though, is the one that says, “Any
woman who wants the VMI expe-
rience should marry a VMI man.”
Imagine with me what that could
mean. V

Sarah Rat marries Stonewall
Keydet. Immediately after they
exchange vows, Sarah is forced to
shave her head and run ten miles in
her regulation dress white wed-

ding gown. For the first year,
Stonewall forces Sarah to keep a
rigorous regiment of exercise and
marching. . . sounds great doesn’t
it?

Anyway, in November of her
third year of marriage, Sarah fi-
nally gets her ring (rather back-
wards, but hey—it’s VMI). As
per tradition, Sarah and the other
wives rent hotel rooms that week-
end and get ragingly drunk. Stone-
wall and his buddies go to their
ring dance wearing big, white,
fluffy dresses.

Back to reality, though. I think
anyone who is still protesting
VMl’s coeducation needs to get
over it. If you still have those
stickers on your car and that poster
on your wall, basically you are
emphasizing one glaring fact
about VMI: YOU LOST! VMI
needs to quit complaining, admit
women, and treat them as badly as
they treat everyone else. VMI
should be proud of anyone who
can survive rathood, male or fe-
male.

My main concern will be how
VMI’s coeducation will affect
Washington and Lee students.
Will it be considered cool for
W&L men to date female cadets?
And will W&L women call these
women road cheese also? Sure,
there’s a road between us, but it’s
not quite the same. By the way,
I’m trying desperately to come up
with a rat/cheese pun, and it’s not
working for me. Feel free to make
up your own.

A greater inﬂux of women
might make an impact on Lexing-
ton. Maybe The Palms will have
“girl drinks” like wine coolers
and Zima on tap and Melrose will
replace Monday Night Football
on the TVs. More women can
only help us as far as Lexington
shopping is concerned. There are,
what, three billion places in town
where you can buy Duckheads
and navy blue blazers? Perhaps
VMI women will bring with them
a Victoria’s Secret.

There truly are some shocking
changes going on here in Big Lex.
When W&L and VMI were both
all male, this was testosterone city.
Now VMI is coed, and W&L’s
lopsided male-female ration is
slipping. Yikes! If I weren’t
already engaged, I’d have to con-
sider transferring.

OPINION

 

 

Quote of the Week:

“This kid is a poster boy
for perverts.”

I-W&L student commenting on the first grade
sexual harassment suit

News Editors ....................... ..

dent.

and obscenity. ,

Editorial Page Editor ..................... ..

Circulation Managers .................... ..

Ellie ‘ﬂing-mm iﬁht

Executive Editor ........................... ..

................................... ..Anne Alvord
Managing Editor ........................... ..

.............................. ..l-iillary Coombs
...... ..Bethany Bauman. Tarah Grant
................................. ..Jason Zacher

Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter, Bethany Bauman
Features Editor .............................................................. ..Dan Odenwald
Photography Editor ............................................................. ..Sam Levine
Business Manager ............................................................. ..Will Hershey
Advertising Manager .......................................................... ..Chip Harrell

....... ..Danie1 Harrell. Justin Laborde

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during theundergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington, Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive
editor and business manager. but The Ring—tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi ofﬂce. room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters.
columns, and “My Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4059

Fax: (540) 462-4060

E-mai: phi@wlu.edu

Decision ’96: Dole VS. Clinton
Issue #1 : School Choice

That day is almost upon us. Yes,
W&L, the election is coming up
very soon--only37days left! Mark
your calendars for November 5th,
the day when the “first president of
the 21 st century” will be elected.

Time to call in for that absentee
ballot that never seems to get to
you on time, and decide which
person you want to lead our great
nation. Will it be President Clinton
again, Bob Dole, Ross Perot? Or
will this be Ralph Nader’s year?

In these final 6 weeks, The Ring-
tum Phi is going to bring you two
columns from opposite sides of the
political spectrum on different is-
sues. On the right this week is
Joshua Heslinga, ’98, our retiring
conservative columnist. On the
left will be Laura Knapp, ’97, our
new Democratic columnist.

For the many of you on this
campus that are dead-set in your

political affiliation, may the best

man win. For those of you who are
trying desperately to decide which
side is the lesser of two evils, hope-
fully this will make your decision
a little easier.

- Jason Zacher
Editorial Editor

The Ring-
tum Phi
editorial page
needs you!

We need:

- a conservative
political columnist

- editorial cartoonist

If you are interested,
please Contact
Editorial Editor
Jason Zacher, at
463-2556,
or by e-mail at:
jzacher@wlu.edu

Letters are always

welcomed. Send to

The Ring-tum Phi
in the University

Center

Vouchers are pro-choice and pro-child

Ends & Means
Joshua Heslinga ’98

As I pen my last column, I
thought it should focus the debate
this week on the issue that most
directly involves the future of
America: education. It is an issue
that Bill Clinton loves to use to
blast Republicans, yet it is pre-
cisely this issue that illustrates the
stale ideas of liberalism.

The most important proposal
conservatives advance for,educa-
tion is school choice, which means
giving parents government vouch-
ers, which they then delivertowhat-
ever school, public or private, they
want their child to go to, instead of
pouring their tax money into pub-
lic schools. For once, opportunity
would be equal for all.

This does not mean abandoning
the public.scho0ls. Good public
schools will win acceptance, and
children trapped in bad public
schools will be free to go to a
school that succeeds.

The states of Wisconsin and
Ohio are now running test voucher
programs in the inner cities of Mil-

waukee and Cleveland, and early
studies show marked improvement
in student performance. These
states have seen alliances between
their Republican governors and a
few Democratic legislators to ex-
pand educational opportunity.

Yet when the Republican Con-
gress wanted to run a similar test
program in Washington, D.C., Bill
Clinton vetoed it, believing that
poor parents trapped in D.C.’s
abysmal public school system did
not deserve the same opportunity
to send their children elsewhere as
he has exercised with Chelsea.

School choice is popular. Polls
consistently show school choice
winning support from two-thirds
or more of the American public,
with support highest among black,
inner—city families.

School choice is fair. It would
empower parents to make a real
difference in their child’s educa-
tion by sending him or her to a
school where crime is under con-
trol, standards are maintained, and
the best academic curriculum is
available.

School choice is economical.
In New York City, private schools
typically cost $2000-$3000 per stu-

dent, per year, which they use to
consistently deliver better aca-
demic performance, graduation
rates, and disciplinary records than
public schools using 3 times as
much tax money per child.

And finally, school choice is
constitutional. Opponents’ main
argument has been that implement-
ing vouchers “violates the separa-
tion of church and state.” Appar-
ently, they believe that somehow,
society is the great loser when par-
ents have the freedom to find the
best education for their child.
Rather, school choice exemplified
the First Amendment’s guarantee
of the right to freely exercise one’s
own religion. No ones’ child would
be compelled to go to a religious
school.

While the fate of school choice
will eventually be decided on a
state-by-state basis, Bob Dole has
proposed a national program to
empower the poorest and most at-
risk students through a voucher
program. If our country wants to
rediscover the greatness in Ameri-
can education, it will begin with
the enactment of school choice
educational voucher programs na-
tionwide.

Wrong Medicine for ailing %g,g,,,Ca,,-0,, System

From the Left
V Laura Knapp ’99

With almost half of Washington
and Lee students having graduated
from private or parochial high
schools, I have a fairly difficult
task of proving that school vouch-
ers would have an adverse effect on
schoolchildren as well as Ameri-
can society on a whole.

If one were to ask most private/
parochial high school graduates if
the quality of their education was
second to none, the likely answer is
that indeed it was.

With the very best of facilities,
teachers, materials, and students
themselves, there is little room for
failure. Graduates of these schools
probably go on to four-year col-
leges and then to comfortablejobs.

This is definitely a good result. It
would appear logical to allow for

further enrollment in such success-

ful schools by instituting the
voucher system.

But the voucher system that has
been proposed presents serious
implications to out present system
of public education. In a nation
that is already split along racial,
ethnic, economic, and religious
lines, public education is the only
real common denominator in the

majority of American back-
grounds. VVith private education,
communities do not have a say in
what is being taught.
James Carville said it best in
We ’re Right, They’re Wrong,
“Wondering about the curriculum
at the David Koresh Academy?
How about the expulsion policy at
the Louis Farrakhan School? Well,
stopwondering. It ain’t none of
your business now,and it will never
get to be your business, even if
they used your tax dollars to send
somebody to these schools.”

“It does in-
deed take a
village to
raise a

child”

No matter what Bob Dole or
any other Republican says, it does
indeed take a village to raise a
child. As a democracy, we have a
duty to educate our future leaders
as the community sees fit.

To deprive funding to public
schools by allowing vouchers
would only make problems worse

for the public schools. Facilities,
teachers and materials are already
severely lacking. Imagine deathly
sick public schools in need of medi-
cal help. The doctor prescribes
medicine, which for our purposes,
represents funding.. What the
voucher plan proposes is to stop all
medicine and let the patient die.
As shocking as this may be, it is
very close to the truth. The stu-
dents that are not smart enough,
rich-enough or for whatever rea-
son will not be able to win admis-
sion to the selective private schools

and thus will have nowhere else to _

go other than back to the proposed
under-funded and under—staffed
public schools. What does this say
to the child? At such an early age
to be faced with such rejection, the
child’s development into a pro-
ductive member of'society would
be stunted.
Liberals and conservatives agree
on few issues. But a common goal
among all Americans, liberal and
conservative alike, is a resolve to
improve American schools. Most
apparently though, is that school
vouchers are not the answer. In-
stead of cutting Head Start pro-
grams and college loan programs
like the Republicans are in Con-
gress now, the US needs an ex-
panded role, rather than restricted,
in the future of our nation.

 

    

  
     

   

      
     
  

    

   
   
  
 
  
 

  

L
CARTOONS The Ring-tum Phi, SEPTEMBER 27. 1 996
I
A L) F5 IN @1444
SHOE HELL, '3" ”""'
é rzoeu M6 Q
by Jeff MacNelly 3 ’

PM N T L THERE'S u .%
uurn_°I Fr-T:JV\;6 N TN-\<Ncf. Rig wwa 5° SAD’ ?
our wHAT'S Go Rt-JA‘5. ,2
3o‘rHEamG ‘$00. 5

5 A
\ - -4
» \ I STILL THINK we SHOULD . A THEN WE CAN <
‘ PASS THE BALANCED  BLAME IT on THE 3
BUDGET AMENDMENT. 5ALANCE THE  CONSTITUTION. E‘
BUDGET ;

AFTER THAT? 1; '
9
NR5 50 5°99’, WI»-M So GEUMD9, 1??
Lu M P :9 ‘,2 3
3

G‘ A
2
?
c‘.

I

   

   

  
  

        

\AJ\-U4 so Tense, WW5 so MoOD‘é, wt-U9 so A,.)Q,Q»._.,/

    

     

    

        

           

   

     
 

             

  
 

 

 

       
  

    

      
    

  

aavemeg poyz E LADIES mo Gems? TvTT\— Few Tn ? wuss Laue LAuc,T2v;’_I
S’OU.MY DEAR? .33
73%. ' 3
§ % .
%
§ wwg so c2mo\<.*9/ ‘F I we . GREAT‘! vowfle
|hI\g9A€NQK\2:\?ST (‘)<.‘¢LtQg2:A:c?)1TD  wHF3L:o8L8Q:?889; I
7r5”“’»W“"T'5 \\7\* mx. ww? \ 2 OH,IDON'T “ INEEDANEWTATTOO \ . °. .'  ’
5‘*“9_§JE‘3T,§‘I§~,{{‘2'§-? \ ‘ {A ‘ ‘ 35:; KNOW... AND I'fX‘l1l._}(3é>A}A<IEAlGFOR'
/9 \  . r ”
J’ ~\\\‘\“‘\\ T!‘ g
\ \ if
2. [K T  
\.'l|q‘:@§ ., WA 3
v __y . "" 5
 ’ ’ 7 "" ”'- E w
\\ , _ ~ 1. g
.. I "T 1" _
, 5"° ' Alﬁgg * -”
MzGoo5E,~’.10UR 15;; weumzeuruow He ’ ”
srupwoeear omyzz 5°RT°FwoKsaKeA
2 wmmkveu mow 5 °
"E AM? V05
g awfz VRAMKA uzmx
‘ g M15 RAc'L’§5 ‘ ’
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM  93°
by Mike Peters gs

/I i
V A

5

O
0 I j

G.)

'3.

:2.

Am
U; 3

:5

:2.

' §

0

§ *  

:2.

_-P

+3.

.53‘
H O

O

G)

S
4; K

H

O.)

+3
3. I

E

  Macintosh. More ﬂexible  than  eeveery      cg
'_'_We_don’tkn_Qw how you"ll-fi|ii_i'n theTblaAnk:gThe_1tfs why ‘make, acihtoSh’.'   Q. ‘ "

~ computersiso ﬂexible.-To.help yogi be,the- fiisti t_D -do’ ‘wh'a'feve\ 3

And with w    In:ernetTacc:T p T A H
. . . . . . . 3 D

P:

4-‘

‘E!
.,.g ' I

>
V A l

Save $100 on an Apgle printer
when you buy a Mac.
For further information visit "
University Computing in
_ _ Tucker Hall, Room 229
Power Macintosh‘ 5400 Power Macintosh‘ 5260 Aiihlecampus SoftwarePack or call 4;  on campus 9  ’
PowerPC"603e/120MHz/IGMBRAM Pou/erPC"603e/100MHz/16MBRAM Only $156. 0z1er12 soﬂu/are lilies P“°*’S ‘1° ”°" ”‘°1“d° Sales “X
1.668/8XCD—ROM/I5"dispkzy 800MB/4XcD-ROM/14"dzsp1ay included/brazzyourszudenmeeds. Free one _year App 19 warran-g;y .

Save $100 when you purdmse 4 qualxjjmg Macintasb amypuler and Apple printer; oﬁkr valid Ibmuglr October 11, 1996. ©1996 Apple Computer, Inc All rigbts reserved Apple, lbeApple logo, Applecare, LaserWn'Ier, Mac, Macinlasb, Pejorma, PowerBook, Power Macinlasb and Saylewiiler are regzkterad trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc Power Mac is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Poum»rPC is a trademark
Brninext Matbines Comoralion, used under license lbereffmm. All Mucinlomb , ' ‘ '10 be " ' Io

11///Jmruzlianal are 0 ' " “ ’ with  71) learn more ([13. on/)’}. Call 800-600-78080r7TY800-755-0601

 

 

 

 

 

I Sale Begins Wednesday, Sept10,1996

 

'_ Q, ,, .% . Mtn.Dew,l?ietPepsiOr
Ger srurr. Peps: Cola

  

2 Liter

     
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
    

 
    
   

 

.. I  
Selected Varieties

Cookies

       

     
   
   

Re . Or Fat Free
el Monte

    

The Best Deli/ Bake Amos

Freshly Baked

Cheese
Bread

 

Prices and Offers Good Wednesday, Sept 18, Through Tuesday, September 24, 1996
At All Mecklenburg County Harris Teeters.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers

 

 
    
  
     
 

 

Pudding Cups

ll

time to coach and help get the team started. Penny works
at the farm of Amy Reistrup in Collierstown, who has
experience riding and coaching with the intercollegiate
riding teams at UVA and Southern Virginia College.
Reistrup has also agreed to volunteer her time in order to
insure W&L’s successful beginning.

Members ofthe riding team will take lessons two times
a week from Sarah Irvine, using horses at her stables in
Raphine. Expenses for members ofthe ridingteam are $20
per lessons plus traveling costs. W&L’s riding team will
compete in the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association
(IHSA). The Executive Committee gave the team $1000
which will cover membership fees to IHSA and help deter
the costs of entry fees.

Nichols hopes that in its first year, the riding team will
be able to overcome the expense of lessons and member-
ship and the team’s lack of funds. ’

‘‘I want to show other students and the administration
that we’re going to be good,” she said.

IHSA is comprised of 13 other schools, two of which
are Hollins College in Roanoke and Southern Virginia
College in Buena Vista. Penny and Starer hope the team
will be ready to compete October 6 at Virginia Tech in
Blacksburg. ‘

‘‘I think it will be a wonderful for W&L students to ride
against big schools like Virginia Tech and Duke,” said
Starer.

- 0t9_9SGrirrmy Inc. _
Dist. by Tnbune Media Services, Inc.

...AMV NON I'M
COVERED IM
(BRASS .

  

‘1995 nmmylnc. ' '
'. TvibuneMediaServices.Inc '
. 4

   

TAGTE THIS
CHILI. WILL YA?

Media Senitu. Inc. All Rights Reserved

995 'l'n'buM

 

9% Trilme Media Servirn Inc. All Rights Reserved

sowmxwo """“""B°T

caou THINK
V°¢l7>R.ié HE

eowe To Live ? ,

  
 
 
 

 

996 Tnbune Media SGIYICGS. In: All Rights Reserved
/ 7“
M
)

 

in which all IHSA members can compete. The host school
provides the horses. The biggest challenge and difference
in an IHSA competition compared to normal horse shows
is that riders do not know or get to practice on their horse
prior to competition.

“You have to go in cold turkey and ﬁgure out the horse
in a matter of seconds,” explains Penny. “This makes you
go back to basics and show everything you’ve learned in
front of the judges.”

“This is a different competition than what many of us
are used to,” said Rector. She stressed the importance of
the team needing beginning-level riders. Because this is a
team effort, the points for the beginner count equally to the
points for the advanced rider. ‘

Penny remembers many instances in her intercollegiate
career when the fate of the team would end up on the
shoulders of the last rider of the day, who would be a
beginner showing for the first time. The pressure, stress
and excitement of the situation would really pull the team
together, she said.

“As many people came out for the riding team as they
do for a sport like tennis,” said Nichols. “lt’s only fair that
W&L gives some attention to all the athletes here who can
really give something back to the school.’’

. I'Th.e Ring-tum Phi, SEPTEMBER 27 , 1996 Sports PAGE 7 1
e _  —__——~—. ‘
F Ha:-r1s'I'eeter  mm
Your Neighborhood Food Market ‘   of the riding team fortwo years. Penny is volunteering her During IHSA competitions, one school hosts the show

For more information on the riding team, contact Chris-
tine Starer at 462-4681.

  
  
     

‘r'0U'LL HAVE

 
 

  

   

wt-IATCOULV
65 MORE
Humiumie?

   

  
 

A WARNING
LABEL.

, "/ /

 

 

  

Cnoee Courrnur -

Generals in action’ this week:

Sat. at Goucher. 1:00: Tues. at E. Mennonite. 4:00
Sat. vs. Guilford. 2:00; Wed. at Sweet Briar. 4:30
Fri-Sat at G-burg: Tues. vs. Brldgewater. 6:30

Fem-nu. - Sat. at Centre. 1:30
Msoocn -

Wsoecn -

Vou.nmu.i. -

Wm-an Pow - Sat. at Johns Hopkins

Sat. at Greensboro lnvltational
'I‘3nrus- RolexReg1ona]s.I-‘rl.8:0O.Sat9:00.Sun. l0:00(Men home)

PAGE 8

s

- (J11: Ring-tum iﬁhi

PORTS  

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER PoLo, VOLLEYBALL,. CROSS COUNTRY

Foorr-Mu. -
Msoocn -
Wsoccu -
Vouznau. -
Warn Pow -

Last week’s results:

L. 24- l0. at Guilford
W. 5-1. vs. Lynchburg: L. 2-7. at Emoryszl-lenry
W. l-0. vs. Maryville: W. 6-3. vs. Greensboro
2nd at Marysvllle Tourney

W. 9-7. vs. Michigan (at Navy Invitational)

Onou Couirru - Men 6th. women 9th at Dickinson Open

Won Randolph-Macon tournament

SEPTEMBER 27, 1996

Soccer teams celebrate anniversary with victories

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

The best players in W&L
soccer history were honored last
weekend in Lexington, but as
fans and
f o r m e r
p l a y e r s
a l i k e
could see,
thecurrent
Generals
may soon
beranking
with the
best of the
past. ‘
T h e
W&Lsoccer teams won all three
of their games last weekend,
making the 50th anniversary of
W&L soccer a triumphant one.

Unlike their male counter-

 

parts, the women’s soccer team
had to play two games this week-
end. It turned out to be no prob-
lem, although neither win came
easy.

The Generals locked up in a
low-scoring battle with
Maryville in the second game of
a W&Lsoccer doubleheader late
Saturday afternoon. After the
two teams dueled to a scoreless
tie at halftime, W&L broke out
on top early in the second half.
Sophomore Karin Treese scored
her sixth goal of the season on a
corner kick at the 48:40 mark,
boosting the Generals into the
lead at 1-0.

Treese’s goal ended up being
the final margin as the Generals
played inspired defense in the
second half, turning away every
Maryville scoring opportunity.
Senior Beth Mozena and fresh-
man Stephanie McKnight com-

bined on the shutout forthe Gen-
erals. McKnight fended off six
shotswhile Mozena turned away
one.

There was a little more ex-
citement and a lot more scoring
on Sunday afternoon when
Greensboro paid a visit to the
Liberty Hall Fields to conclude
the anniversary weekend. The
Generals made sure it remained
a festive one as they outlasted
Greensboro, 6-3, in double over-
time.

The first half ended in a 1-1
tie as sophomore Nicole
Johnson’s goal at 26:51 was an-
swered by a Greensboro goal
late in the half.

The teams began to light up
the scoreboard in the second half,
however. Senior Jenni Grant’s
score two minutes into the sec-
ond half lifted W&L into a brief
2-1 advantage. But Greensboro
reeled off two goals in the next
ﬁve minutes to vault into a 3-2
lead.

It remained that way until
Johnson struck again. The
sophomore knocked home her
third goal of the year and second
of the day at the 78:58 mark to
tie it up at 3 apiece.

The defenses tightened as
regulation ended with the score
tied. The score remained locked
through the first overtime. But
W&L was in no mood to drag
out the contest any longer and
blew away Greensboro in the
second overtime with a three-
goal ﬂurry.

Treese started the second
overtime by nettingthe eventual
game—w’inning goal off an assist
from freshman Deirdre Coyle.

Sophomore Caroline Keen gave
W&L some breathing room at
5-3 by putting away a rebound
off the post. Seven minuteslater,
Grant inscribed the exclamation
point on the Generals’ amazing
overtime run by booting home
her second goal of the afternoon
to provide the final margin.

Mozena and McKnight were
once again solid in the cage.
McKnight warded off six shots
while Mozena saved three.

The women, now 5-0 and
ranked 8th in the South Region,
attempted to protect their un-
beaten streak on the road Thurs-
day against Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College. ‘ ’ ~

The Generals came away
winners again, 1-0, as sopho-
more Lorraine Taurassi scored
the only goal of the contest with
8:11 remaining.

Mozena and McKnight com-
bined for the shutout, their third
in the last four games.

The victory moved the Gen-
erals’ record to 5-0. The Gener-
als will next be in action Satur-
day against Guilford at home.

The men’s team entertained
the socceralumnibytoyingwith
visiting Lynchburgformorethan
one half Saturday before putting
the game away late, 5-1. In the
process, it raised its record to 3-
0, 1-0 in the ODAC.

Freshman Jamie Parker had
an unbelievable day forthe Gen-
erals. He wowed the home
crowd by providing W&L with
nearly its entire offense with his
four-goal barrage.

As was the custom with the

»-Generals’ soccer teams last

weekend, the men ﬁnished the

first half in a tie., Lynchburg
struck first twelve minutes into
the game but Parker answered

~midway through the half with

his first goal of the day, knotting
the score at one goal apiece. ‘

Senior tri-captain Colin
Connolly made sure it didn’t
remain that way for long. He
netted the eventual game-win-
ner three minutes into the sec-
ond half to give the Generals a 2-
1 advantage.

With the score still 2-1 mid- '

way through the half, Parker took
control. Hlbegan his personal
second half onslaught by blast-
ing home his second goal to pro-
vide the Generals with a 3-1
edge. With ten minutes remain-
ing in regulation, Parker made
sure Lynchburg didn’t mount a
comeback by scoring yet an-
other goal to give W&L a com-
fortable 4-1 margin.

Parker wasn’t through with
the Hornets yet. With Lynchburg
reeling, down three goals with
six minutes remaining, the last
thingthe Hornets’ goalie wanted
to see was Parker heading to-
ward him once again. That is
exactly what happened as Parker
drove home the final nail in the
Lynchburg coffin with his fourth
and final goal of the game. With
his huge afternoon, Parker leads
the squad with six goals on the
season.

Junior Gordon Meeker con-
tributed in a key way for the
Generals by assisting on two
goals. Senior Mike Matechak
and sophomores Sam Chase and
Mikel Parker all had one assist
apiece

Garry Hill collected three

Publicity Photo

Jenni Grant scored two goals against Greensboro.

saves in the cage for the Gener-
als.

On Wednesday, the Generals
traveled to Emory & Henry,
looking to keep their season per-
fect. Unfortunately, the good
times came to an end for W&L
as it succumbed to E&H, 7-2.

Bill Sigler and Geoff Wikel
accounted forthe Generals’ only
two goals of the afternoon. Hill
finished with three saves for the
Generals, who slipped to 3-1
overall, 1-1 ODAC.

There was a lot more to keep
former Generals’ soccer players
entertained this weekend than
just watchingtheirsucessorsroll

to victory.

The W&L athletic depart-
ment celebrated the 50th season
of W&L soccer, including the
10th season of the women ’s pro-
gram, with three days of festivi-
ties. These included a cocktail
party and a banquet Friday
evening where former-‘coaches
and players spoke and~a video
depicting soccer moments over
the years was shown.

The former players got a
chance to strut their stuff once
again in an alumni soccer game
Saturday morning before being
treated to a pair of victories by
the current cast of Generals.

  

Ridingteam gaIlopsontoW&Lsports scene»

Photo courtesy of Parker /Cammett

Sophomore Sarah Rector is a member of the new club horseback riding team.

Quakers shake Generals, 24-10

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
PHI SPORTS EDrroR

The Quakers were not kind to
the Generals last Saturday.
Guilford College passed Wash-
ington and Lee 24-10 in the
teams’ first Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference game.

The Generals put the first
points of the day up in the sec-

ond quar-
ter on a 10-
yard pass
from quar-
terbackse-
n i o r
Brooks
Fischer to
sopho-
more Chas
Chastain.
T h e
touchdown topped off a 14 play,
86-yard drive.

Guilford scored later in the
second on a 22-yard field goal,
moving thescore to 7-2. But the
Quakers then took the lead with
63 seconds left in the half when
Guilford’s Junior Lord snagged
a 24-yard touchdown pass.
W&L senior defensive tackle
Peyton Williams blocked the
extra point to keep the score at 9-

7.

But the Generals were not
able to convert on the squib kick-
off and the Quakers got the ball
on their own 44-yard line. Lord
then extended the lead for
Guilford to 16-7 on a 39-yard
pass from quarterback Dan

Wilkinson, who ran for 79 yards
on 11 carries. Wilkinson has
been forced to step up for the
offense because tailbacks junior
Seth McKinley and sophomore
Floyd Young have both been
sidelined with injuries.

The offense was noticeably

Strelkaukas weakened
T h e u - last Satur-
second our biggest day with
half was strength and the theabsence
quiet until . of starting
late in the best sfgn for the cornerback
third quar- future of the team junior Jon
ter when ’ th . Benazzi,
kickerjun- was e 1mpr°ve' w h o
ior Matt ment of the offen. missed the
Holbrook , , ” game be-
connected Slve hneo cause of
f 37- f ' l
ycaidaﬁeld Peytonwiuiams , .§.§‘.’..‘m’.
goal. But 1996 Quad CaPt3-In m e n t s .
Lordcon- Taking

tinued to give the Generals
trouble, pulling in a 23-yard
touchdown pass from
Strelkauskas. Lord then caught
the two-point conversion pass
and sealed the 24-10 victory for
Guilford. Lord’s outstanding
performance earned him ODAC
Offensive Player of the Week
honors.

The Generals’ offense was
led by senior fullback Aaron

Benazzi’s place was sophomore
John McAllister, who did well
in his first college start consid-
ering the opposition he was fac-
ing in Junior Lord.

The offensive line made a
good showing against Guilford
as well. Williams stated that the
o-line’s improvement was the,
“...biggest strength and the best
sign for the future of the team.”

Also making a big contribu-

BY KELLEY Tp1"rEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

When Washington and Lee
sophomore Christine Starer, who
began riding at the age of four,
was looking at colleges, she nar-
rowed her choices to the Univer-
sity of Virginia and W&L. Her
major attraction to UVA was its
high-caliber riding team. She
chose W&Lanyway and decided
to start a riding team on her own.

Starer soon found out that
many W&L students have a lot
of talent and interest in riding.
While some students were still
competing and showing during
their college years, W&L did
not offer any opportunity for the
students to improve or compete
in a team atmosphere.

“Competition is much more
of a team effort. All the riding
during shows earns points for
the team, not the individual,”
said Starer, explaining why she
wanted a team to compete with
rather than showing on her own

Sophomore Lydia Nichols
has been riding and competing
for eleven years. She has won
numerous awards in South Caro-
lina, including two State Cham-
pionships.

tion for the offense were
Chastain and junior Nick Hodge,
who each snagged four catches.

Defensively, McGuire Boyd,
Jack Boyd and Williams turned

A in big performances. McGuire

Boyd led the team in tackles
with 14, including two quarter-
back sacks.

Jack Boyd also included a
sack in his career-high l0 tack-
les. Williams also had an im-
pressive game with 13 tackles
and two blocked kicks.

Theteam is disappointed with
the slow start to their season, but
they are not discouraged. Wil-
liams commented that two years
ago, the Generals, who started
out 0-3, ended the season 5-4.
He believes that, by compari-
son, this year’s squad has more
talent and is putting forth more
of an effort.

The Generals will be on the
road again Saturday as they
travel to Centre College in
Danville, Kentucky. The Colo-
nels have posted a 3-0 record so
far this sea'son.

Williams stated that the big-
gest challenge facing the Gener-
als tomorrow will be not making
the minor mistakes that have cost
them some crucial plays in their
two previous outings.

‘‘It makes you feel like you’re
not an athlete when you’re not
riding and competing,” said
Nichols, who is looking forward
to joining a team and bringing
recognition to W&L.

‘‘I didn’t get to ride much last

year while at school,” said-

sophomore Sarah Rector, who
has also won many titles includ-
ing the Gittings Horsemanship
Finals, a regional equitation
championship with participants
from Virginia, Maryland, Penn-
sylvania and Delaware. “Now
that it’s a club sport, it’s a good
excuse for me to rifle.”

The riding team also opens
up the opportunity for less-ex-
perienced riders. The team ros-
ter includes all levels, from be-
ginning walk-trot to the most
advanced Open Equitation.

Team members who have only 3

taken lessons before or who
haven’t shown since they were
younger have the opportunity to
improve and learn how to com-
pete with the help and encour-
agement of team members.
Krista Penny, the team’s
coach, graduated last spring from
Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College, where she was captain

Please see Riding, pg. 7

we

BODY’

 

WAN? ~

your.

A.

Please HELP
I
 I A
Scot at 462-
4650. V

 

 

