X.

I

k

 

     
 

 

Bulk Rate

US I’ostzIg'c
I’AIl)

1'1.-rmit No. 7

Lexington, \'.-\

MARCH 16, 1997

KATHEKON APPLICATIONS DUE:

Rising juniors and seniors, don’t forget to turn in your
Kathekon applications by Wednesday. Applications, inter-
view sign-ups and information packets are available outside
Carol Calkin’s office in the University Center. Interviews
will be held next Tuesday through Thursday.

POET GIVES READING:

Fans of award-winning poet Kathleen Norris won’t want
to miss her reading on Tuesday in Northern Auditorium.
Norris will follow the reading with a book signing. The
readingwill begin at4:30 p.m.; the public is invited to attend.

LAW SCHOOL HOSTS SYMPOSIUM:

The law school will hold a one-day symposium on
“Minorities in the Legal Profession: Agenda for the 21st
Century.” The symposium will take place on Friday. It will
begin at 9:30 a.m. with a panel discussion on “Minorities in
the Judicial Sector.” Panels on “Minorities in the Private
Sector” and “Minorities in the Public Sector” will follow at
11:25 a.m. and 2:25 p.m.

Discussions will focus on how minorities have succeeded
in the legal ﬁeld despite the problems they face and on how
these problems can be solved in the future. For registration,
contact Margaret Williams at 463-8509.

RUSSIAN NOVELIST VISITS:

Visiting Russian novelist Vladimir Sharov will speak
twice during his visit to W&L, once this Wednesday and
once next Wednesday. He will address the topics “Russia,
the Bible, and the Jews” and “From Under the Rubble: One
Writer’s Journey.”

Anna Brodsky, W&LprofessOrOfRussian,will translate.
Both lectures begin at 7:00 p.m. in room 221 ofthe C-school.

PBK SCHOLAR SPEAKS:

Rachel Jacoff, the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar at
W&L, will speak on the topic of “The Poetics of the
Afterlife” at 8 p.m. Monday in Northern Auditorium. Her
talk will consider the poetry of Homer, Plato, Virgil, Dante,
Montale and Merrill. Jacoff is a professor of Italian at
Wellesley College.

AUDITION FOR ZOO:

Open auditions for Edward Albee’s “Zoo Story,” di-
rected by senior Dan Tipton, will be held in duPont audito-
rium 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Sunday, March 30.

Scripts are available in the Lenfest Center.

CCC REQUESTS W&L INPUT:

The Concerned Citizens Coalition invites students and
faculty to attend their meeting 5:30 p.m. Sunday in the
County Administration Building, 150 S. Main St. The CCC
will discuss their current work and ask citizens to voice their

concerns.
For further information please call Darrell Lee Croson at
291-3276.

ATTEND MUSIC RECITAL:

Music students will perform 8 p.m. Tuesday in the
Lenfest Center. The public is invited to attend.

TEACH HOW TO WRITE:

Professors David Novack and Robert Strong will host a
writing program activity on how to teach writing in introduc-
tory social science classes 3:30 p.m. Thursday in Fairfax
Lounge of the University Center.

LEARN STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT:

Jack Jordan of Bethlehem Steel and Rick Armstrong of
Wachovia Bank of Georgia will speak at the Annual Strate-
gic Management Seminar in room 327 of the C-school 7:30
p.m. Thursday.

——COMl’lLED BY PEGGY S'ruNTz

BY ERrcA PROssER
Pm STAFF WRrTER

 

Evans Dining Hall was filled with the
strains of 50’s rock ‘n’ ".‘.II announcing
another Dining Service taenre Thursday
night.

“It was a great success,” Director of
DiningServices Gerald Darrellsaid about
the 50’s dinner theme. He said that he
was not surethe students would knowthe
songs, but after watching l're diners on
Thursday, the younger generation is in-
deed familiar with “old-tzme. rock ‘n’
roll.”

Dining hall dinner themes are a regu-
lar sight at W&L. Darrell said that the
staff tries to do several different themes
each year, usually about one “big event”
per month. Wok Night, though still tech-
nically a theme, “isn’t anything special
anymore,” but it remains regular none-
theless. He said that the themes rely a lot
on student input, since the purpose of the
themes is partially to break the monotony
that sets in after a while.

Other colleges and universities have
themes, he continued. The National As-
sociation of College and University Food
Services holds menu competitions for
the dinner themes created by participat-
ing schools like this one, and W&L has
often brought home awards from the
competition. __

Darrell pointed out the “front wall by
the double doors” just outside the main
dining hall where W&L’s dining service
ribbons hang. As an example of the
honors this staff has earned, he men-
tioned a second place last year and two
first place finishes before that in the
national competition.

The preparation behind the themes is
extensive. Darrellsaidthattlre plan-
ning begins every summer when the

 

real team effort,” Darrell said.

  
  
 
 
   
   
    
   
  

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
    

Photo by Mark Slomiany

D-hall workers display their “talents” at Thursday night’s wild
theme dinner.

‘tend than usual.

J-school
hosts
ethics  
institute

_ Who says that journalists today
lack a sense of ethics? Washington
and Lee University’s Journalism
School wants to make sure its stu-
dents possess a strong one.

7 Friday and Saturday marked the
23rd annual Llournalisnr Ethics Insti- '
‘tute, a two-day series of seminars
unique to W&L. Students from the
tjournalismethics class join‘l5 pro-’

fessionalslfromjthe media and]:

academia in discussiohsofactual eth—_ .
I-icsieasies. The "seminars, each lasting ’
?*faboutf;an h'our_,_and-a ‘.ialf_§long, are
{held in Northiern Auditoriujm, the 'stu-"

   

Otherwise, she said the themes are a
success and a good idea.

With all the variety in themes,
one past theme had to be the “most”
successful of them all. Darrell of-
fered what he considered to be that

 

calendar forthe year’sthemes is cre-
ated. Ideas come from both student
input and brainstorming sessions
among the staff. The menus for the
themes are prepared a month in ad-
vance, and the decorations are ap-
plied on the day of the event. The
catering department, staff and others
involved helpoutonthedayofthetheme

Students seem to welcome the theme
nights. Sophomore Rebecca
Fitzsimmons called the dinner themes
“entertaining” and “a relief from mo-
notony.” Her favorite theme, which is
actually a theme week, is finals week.
During finals, the dining hall offers little
treats and pick-me-ups to studying stu-
dents. Theme nights, she lras observed,
are popular and more uppcrelassmen at-

In spite of her support of the theme
night concept, she lamented the lack of
alternatives for those who do not like the
theme. On Wok Night, for example, she
is “forced to go out or starve” because
the dinner does not include choices that
aren’t Chinese food. She suggested :1
pasta or vegetarian selection that re-
mains present even on theme nights so
that no student is forced to forgo dinner.

outstarrdingtheme. Afew years ago,
he said, the dining service created a
Lobsterfest theme. They flew in
lobsters from Maine and set up an
outdoor dinner that was enormously
successful. For future dinnerevents,
he welcomes suggestions from stu-
dents, so all should feel free to par-
ticipate in deciding the dining hall
atmosphere for next year.

 

 

POPINION

Who are the winners and the losers in the democratic
fundraising scandal. Another dull FD article. W&L:
the living college brochure.

P“ ( FANCY DRESS SUPPLEMENT

Interview with the Fancy Dress Chair.
Band profiles. FD theme timeline. His-
tory ofthe circus. Memorabilia sale in the

University Center.

}FEATURES

The Glasglow Foundation will sponsor a reading by
Kathleen Norris, essayist and poet. VladmirSharov‘,
a Russian novelist, will read from his work. David
Keeling (’73) critiques the lecture of Professor
Arthur Dante. Alex Christensen tells how a movie
becomes an ‘event.’

  

to keep things running smoothly. “lt’s a

German director to address
theater ‘structural differences’ Swimmer Places

FROM PHI STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee University departments of
German and Russian and the Theater Department will
sponsor the visit of German theater director Rainer
Lewandowski from March 23-25. The visit is part ofa
two-week American speaking tour organized by West Vir-
ginia University, which also includes the University of
Pittsburgh, Carnegie—Mcllon University, as well as W&L.

Mr. Lewandowski is the director ofa famous theater
in the Bavarian city ofBamberg. In commemoration of
the Romantic composer and writer E. T. A. Hoffmann’s
220th birthday in 1996, Mr. Lewandowski published a
study about Hoffmann’s years in Bamberg, wrote and
staged an original play containing familiar characters
from Hoffmann’s Fantastic Tales, and adapted several
Hoffmann stories for the stage. The Bamberg Theater
also produced Hoffmann’s musical masterpiece, the
opera Undine.

Most recently, the Theatertraveled to Kiev, Ukraine,
to present its stage production of Hoffmann’s Made-
moiselle de Seuderi. In the U.S.A., Hoffmann is per-
haps best known as the author of the story on which
Tchaikovsky based his ballet, “Tire Nutcracker.”

Mr. Lewandowski is also an accomplished drama-

tist. His play, Today Neither Hamlet, has been suc-
cessfully produced by different theaters throughout
Germany and was recently translated into English. He
may work with it in one of his appearances at W&L
later this month.

On Monday, March 24, at 8:00 p.m., Mr.
Lewandowski will speak in Room 221 ofthe Commerce
School about structural differences between the theater in
Germany and in the United States, and about his own work
as artistic director of the E. T. A. Hoffmanrr Tlreatcr.

OnTuesday, March 25,11! 8:00 p.m., Mr. I.ew'.rndo\vski
will again speak in Room 221 ofthe Commerce School.
I-lis topic will be: “How Artistic Imaginatiorr Came to
Console Hoffmann: The Imaginative Realist E. T. A.
Hoffmann and his Relationship with the Romantic Move-
nrcnt in Germany.” Both presentations are open to the
public and free of charge. _

During his two-day stay, Mr. Lewandowski will also
visitseveral German classes to speak to students. Anyone
who undcr'stanr.ls Gcrnran is welcome to sit in one oftlresc
classes. For more information on Mr. Le\v:nrdo\vski's
schedule, please contact the German Department Profes-
sor David B. Dickens (ext. 8830) or Professor Roger A.
Crockett (ext. 8825); fortheater-related information, corr-
tact Professor Al Gordon (ext. 8003).

 

sixth in nation

BY TOM WADLOW
PHI AssrsTANT NEws EDITOR

.

Last Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Freshman Brooke
Stanley attended the NC IIA Division III Swimming Cham-
pionships at the Miami University in O.\IOl‘tI, Ohio. Seventy
schools were represented at the event which consisted of
about 220 srvimrners.

“Tlris isabig deal for me,” Stanley
said Sunday after‘ coming home with
a 6th place in the 50-yard freestyle
and a 7th placei n the I00-yard freestyle.

“I was nervous at first,” said
Stanley, “but after I swam the first
event, I wasjust excited."

Assistant Prol'cssor of Plrysical
Education and Sxvirrrzxrirrg Coach
iiristin Jacobs said she was very pleased with St;1nley’s
per'fornT.tncc. “She did really\vcll,"J;rcolrssaid. "It's hard to
go there by yourself, especially as a fi'eslrm:rn.”

Senior‘i\’allrarr I lottlc will represent Waslrington and Lee
University in the men’s division this weekend.

 

Stanley

FROM PHI STAFF REPORTS

Fifty Washington and Lee Uni-
versity students participated in a
Maury River clean up project
March 8, sponsored by the
Rockbridge Area Conservation
Council (RACC) and the James
River Basin Canoe Livery.

The students represented six cam-

Spring cleaning on the Maury
Students beautify river

trash and debris from the flood plain of
the Maury River to the Chessie Trail.
RACC volunteers carted 14 pick-up
truck loads of material off the trail to a
pile that rivaled Mt. Traslrmore.

“We are most appreciative of the
W&L students’ efforts to help beautify
the Rockbridge area,” RACC’s Execu-
tive Director Mollie Messimer said.

“Our community clean-up slated for

pusorganizations:OutingClub, Fresh-
man Leadership Council, Alpha Phi
Omega, Catholic Campus Ministry,
Pi Kappa Alpha and Sigma Chi.
From Lexington to Buena Vista,
the students hauled over four tons of

March 22 has had a fantastic head start.
Thanks to The James River Basin Canoe
Livery who offered clean-up partici-
pants a free canoe trip along the same
stretch of river the following weekend.
What a great reward fortheir hard work!”

    

Photo bMollie Messimer
Students from W&L organizations sit atop “Mt. Trashmore.”

  

 

  

PAGE 2

OPINION

Whal really
haw anal 

Ell egfilioils of

improper luna’rd:3ing—~>

  
  

by Nobody I997

Presidents Gingrich and Thurmond?

The Democrats’ fund raising scandal supplies some interesting winners.

The story thus far:

The Democratic National Com-
mittee engaged in questionable, and
possibly illegal, fund raising ac-
tivities. President Clinton and Vice
President Gore were also heavily

From the Right
Jason Zacher ’98

Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor

engaged in these activities. The
Justice Department is trying to find
the line between what is legal and
illegal, since many “soft-money”
contributions are legal.

Is this the 90’s equivalent of
Watergate? An illegal act may
have been performed, with full
presidential knowledge, to secure
re—election. There are many politi-
cal games to be played, so who are
the potential winners and losers in
this scandal?

The Losers: 1. Vice President
Gore. Though Clinton participated
in questionable activities, it is

‘ highly unlikely he would be im-
3 peached — his popularity rating
1 have barely felt this scandal. Gore,
- on the other hand, stands to lose
 everything. He is potentially the
Itop presidential front-runner for
 the 2000 election. Currently, most
2 people in the country see him as
3 boring and clean. It might turnout
 that he is simply boring. His easy
I nomination could become a seri-

ous race.
2. The Media. An ad-industry

 research firm, Competitive Media
' Reporting, said the top 75 media
' markets made $400 million from
; political ads in the 1996 campaign.

U.S. News and World Report re-
ported that television stations in
Raleigh, N.C., made $8.5 million,

and one station received more
money from politicians than from
all the Ford and Chevrolet dealers
combined.

3. President Clinton. He could
lose but not for the reasons you
may think. His defense in the
Paula Jones case before the Su-
preme Court is that he was too
busy with his duties as President to
handle a civil case. But if Clinton
was cuttingback on his policy brief-
ings to raise money, what does that
say to the Supreme Court, which
has not ruled on the case yet.
Clinton may not be able to with-
stand the firestorm that could sur-
round that case.

4. The DNC. Though the Re-
publican Party is by no means clean
on this subject, the DNC is at the
center of this scandal. The nation-
wide popularity could take a hit
heading into the 1998 and 2000
elections. The Democrats could
lose the congressional seats they
gained in the 1996 election.

The Winners: 1. Senator Fred
Thompson. He is spearheading
the bipartisan commission to study
this scandal. If he can play the role
of the responsible crusader, he can
win wide publicsupport that could
translate into a Republican nomi-
nation for president in 2000.
Thompson stands to gain the most
from this. He has been bucking the
Republican leadership so his in-
vestigation can be truly bipartisan.
He is already seen as the “good
guy,” the popularity is his to lose.

2. The Republican Party. If the
Republicans can keep these inves-
tigations from becoming a media
circus, they could win the popular-
ity the Democrats stand to lose. It
is imperative that the Republicans
have a goal in these investigations,
and do not draw them out if there

is no wrongdoing.

3. Senator Strom Thurmond,
Secretary of the Treasury Ronald
Rubin and Secretary of Defense
William Cohen. Last week, Wil-
liam Safire outlined a humorous
scenario in his column in The New
York Times. Should Clinton be
impeached, it is possible that Gore
would follow. The. presidency

“There are
powecful people
in this country
who want to
see their man
elected, so
where is the
justice in
saying they
cannot do so?”

would fall into Speaker of the
House Newt Gingrich’s lap. It is
conceivable that he would not stand
above the fray on several issues.

This drops the presidency on
Senator Strom Thurmond of South
Carolina, President pro tempore
of the Senate. Since his age and
health would certainly be a serious
problem, he would possibly pass
the presidency on to our first
woman president, Secretary of
State Madeline Albright. Albright
is not a native citizen, so she is
automatically ineligible for the
presidency.

This passes the office to Secre-
tary of the Treasury Ronald Rubin.

He is also involved in several shady
dealings, and if he could not with-
stand the investigations, Clinton’s
Republican choice for Secretary
ofDefense William Cohen, would
be president.

Of course this scenario is silly,
but as with silly things in politics,
it seems far too likely also. Will
campaign finance reform really
happen? Probably not, or at least,
not the kind we want. There are
simply too many legal issues, spe-
cial interest groups and constitu-
tional issues to make campaign
finance reform an easy subject.

Why do we need campaign fi-
nance reform? We simply have
the workings ofa democracy learly
upon us. There are powerful people
who wantto seetheir man elected,
so where is the justice in saying
they cannot spend their money to
do so? No matter what happens,
political campaigns will live offof
money, and the wealthy and pow-
erful will continue to hold a lot of
power in politics.

The Supreme Court ruled on
this issue in the complex case
Buckley v. Valeo (1976) One of
the Court’s rulings was that people
could spend their money on poli-
tics however they want, and the
government can not restrict
someone’s spending. The Court
was deeply divided, but a prece-
dent was set: Any such law passed
by Congress might not hold up
underjudicial scrutiny.

Which brings us to the ultimate
losers in any scenario, the people.
If reform is not passed, we may
continue to have inﬂuence bought
by special interest groups, but if
the reform is passed, a liberty to
spend one’s money how they wish
will be eliminated.

Nobody said politics is fair.

Former W&L student tried for forgery

She could have been a typical
Washington and Lee University
student, blond hair, blue eyes,
medium height. A nice girl from
Florida. She got good grades, and
was slated to become a dorm coun-
selor this year. Then on/lugust 29,
1996 the police arrested her for

forgery.

Life on the Hill
C. E. Miller ’98

Jennifer Murphy’s story is bi-
zarre. Her actions are in direct vio-
lation of what everyone knew about
her. She had several good friends
and a steady boyfriend. Not only
was she well liked by the faculty,
but after an intensive interview
and application process, she was
chosen to be a dorm counselor.
She was chosen to represent the
ideal W&L student, to be a model
for the class of 2000. No one ex-
pected her to lie, cheat or steal, and
yet she did.

She fooled her roommates, her
boyfriend and her professors. Dean
Dennis Manning, a man who is

disappointed, but never surprised,
was shocked at her arrest. So many
people who trusted the W&L stu-
dent body were shocked to dis-
cover a student had been arrested
for forgery, and the checks she

passed in the guise of the W&L

  “Murphy

, claimed not to
 knowanything
about it, when

in reality the

checks were in
her possession.”

honor system were no good.

Her story begins with a missing
book of checks. Murphy’s room-
mate asked her if she knew any-
thing about it. Murphy claimed not
to know anything about it, when in
riaality the checks were in her pos-
sfssion. School ended and her

r ommates left for the summer.
Rometime later, Murphy decided

to use the book of checks to pur-
chase items such as a stereo.

She was again confronted by
her roommate. This time she ad-
mitted towritingone ofthe checks,
when she had written several oth-
ers. When word of Murphy’s ar-
rest got out the rumors began to
fly: “I always thought there was
something strange about her,” or
“She was fake, you couldjust tell.”
Eventually the rumors died down
and people forgot about her, for
better gossip, better stories. But
for Murphy, the ordeal was just
beginning.

Forgery is a felony in Virginia,
mandating time injail. Last Mon-
day morning, Murphy faced Judge
George E. Honts ill on four counts
of forgery and four counts of ‘“ut-
tering” which is signing someone
else’s name to a presented check.

Her lawyer had served sub-
poenas to several character
witnesses including Manning.
He had A become well
acquatinted with Murphy her
freshman year. This was his
first time in court and his first
time testifying. He told the
court that Murphy had been an

exceptional student and forg-
ing these checks was an
anomaly.

The Commonwealth’s attor-
ney, Gordon Saunders, felt
Murphy should face the felony
charges and take the punish-
ment for her crime. Having
prosecuted other cases, he felt
that Murphy was no exception
to facing the felony charges.

So here she is in a tight spot.
Time in jail at 20 years of age,
all for stealing a few checks
and buying some toys. Poor
judgment. Would Honts let her
off with a slap on the wrist like
Kurt Richter, or would she face
years in jail?

And so Murphy '5 bizarre story
comes to an end. Judge Honts re-
duced her felony charges to eight
misdemeanors and suspended her
two years in jail for 24 months of
unsupervised probation. Unless
Murphy violates her parole by
breaking the law, she’ll have
managed to violate not only the
Honor System without reper-
cussion but also a felony
charge. on her permanent
record.

I hurt anyone’s feelings. That atti-

MARCH 17, 199'.

Washington and
Lee: the living
college brochure

Other than an incredibly gray
Friday, last week was absolutely
beautiful. ldon’_t think I will ever
encounter many sights more lovely
to me than Washington and Lee on
a sunny day. The Colonnade and

young students played frisb
withfriendsand dogsallovcrca‘
pus. Perfectly choreograph
squirrels romped through impi
sibly green grass. My high schor
aged self would have seen all
that and thought it looked inert
ibly fake, but I know now that it
real.

W&L, I think, really lends its
to brochure photo ops. Not or
do we have a beautiful cam}:
with actual ivy on the walls, l
we are a freakishly good looki
group ofpeople. Don’t be mode
you know it is true. All of us ha
nice hair and perfect teeth; it mal
you wonder what criteria the 2
missions office is really applyi
to us. Maybe we should use that
our advantage and include Gla
our Shots in our brochures,
maybe we could be the first C:
lege to send prospectives a swi
suit issue.

It has been a dream of mi
for a long time to get my p:
ture in a brochure, calendar,
catalog. I thought I had it
chance last term when a ph
tographer came into my po
tics class to take pictures of l

She told us just to prete
she wasn’t there, which was:
easy to do considering that s
kept holding light meters
front of our faces and snapp
a picture every time Profess
Grant-Thomas gestured. I tri
my hardest to raise my -hanc
lot and to look thoughtful, i
tent, happy, and smart. I co
sidered running quickly tot
bookstore to pick up a W8
sweatshirt or a lovingly tatter
looking notebook to increa
my chances of getting in t
brochure. Maybe I should ha\
since I didn’t make the cut.

Maybe I should spend t
rest of my time here (other th
while I’m in that spring tei
PE class so I can graduate) pc
ing for pictures and trying
get Patrick Hinley’s attentic
Look around and you’ll fi
me reading outside the Co—c
sniffing the daffodils outsi
the Lee House, climbing Cyr
McCormick statue and preten
ing to be asleep outside witl
book on my chest.

Look for me in next year
calendar!

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

every other part of campus are
picture perfect. In fact, almost too
perfect. W&L last week looked
exactly like a college brochure.
Remember all those brochures
you got after you took the SAT’s?
At first, I was really excited to get
them. Those colleges saw my test
scores, and they wanted me. ME!
Clearly, I was something special.
I eagerly filled out the reply card in
the back of each one, just to let
them know I was interested, not to

tude lasted all of a week, until I
found out that all of my friends
were getting the exact same bro-
chure in equal quantities.

It was around that time that I
decided to be creative with all of
those useless brochures. I’d make
collages, or use pictures from bro-
chures for mix tapes The Iowa
State brochure had lots of pretty
trees, I remember, and the Univer-
sity of Chicago brochure had way
cool gargoyle pictures.

Other colleges, inexplicably,
took a shine to me. Ifl didn’t get
something from Sarah Lawrence
College at least twice a week, I
worried aboutthem. Cometothink
of it, the Victoria’s Secret catalog
is now stalking me with a similar
fervor. Coincidence? I think not.

All ofthose brochures had com-
mon elements, most of which I
could see on campus last week:
happy students rcadingundertrees,
dedicated professors teaching out-
side, flowers blooming. And I.
think in every single brochure of
every college in the United States,
there is a picture of ethnically di-
verse students, one wearing a
sweatshirt with the name of the
school on it, one leaning on a bike,
all wearing backpacks, standing
under a tree.

I’m pretty sure I spotted that
last week, when photo oppor-
tunities abounded. Joyous

Quote of the Week

“President Elrod will be hitting
the bong — I mean gong?”

- an astonished W&L student on learning about
President E [rod is activities

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬁhi

Executive Editor ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord
Managing Editor ........................................................... ..Hiiiary Coombs
News Editor ....................................................................... ..Tarah Grant
Assistant News Editor ....................................................... ..Tom Wadlow
Editorial Page Editor ........................................................ ..Jason Zacher
Features Editor ............................................................... ..David Balsley
Assistant Features Editor ................................................ ..Andrea Ewing
Photographer ............................................................... ..Mark Slomiany
Business Managers ....................................... ..Neal Kohl. Blake Lovelace
Advertising Assistant ...................................................... ..Rebecca .Cuny

The Ring-tum PM is published Mondays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding
for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-
dent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters. All
submissions must be in the Phi office. room 208 of the University Center.
by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi
reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters.
_ columns. and “My Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel
and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

.

 

i
I
l
l
l
\

,-=..,,_. 1-, L_ * g

<. .

MARCH 1 7, W1  

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

It may seem strange to some
that a married woman would be

I attracted to the monastic life.

For Kathleen Norris, however,
living as a monk was only one
step in herjourney back to faith.

Norris, essayist and poet, has
made her re-discovery of Chris-
tianity the topic of her most re-
cent works. She will be here on
Tuesday for a Glasgow
Reading.

Norris’ spiritual journey be-
gan when she and her husband,
poet David Dwyer, moved to
Lemmon, South Dakota, accord-
ing to a July 1994 article pub-
lished in “The Christian Cen-
tury.” While living in Norris’
late grandmother’s home, the
two came to appreciate the si-
lence and vast expanses of west-
ern Dakota.

For Norris, returning to her
grandmother’s home also meant
examining her faith. Memories
of her religious upbringing re-
emerged. Confronted with her
past, Norris was forced to admit
that she was largely ignorant of
the faith which she had rejected.
She began to attend church and,
with the help of some minister
friends, started to see Christian-
ity as “a communal thing.”

Norris also became an asso-
ciate member at a monastery.
She took part in the monks’ prac-
tice of sustaining long periods
of silence broken only by scrip-
ture readings and prayer. This
deprivation, she found, allowed
her to confront sin, as well as
strike a balance between disci-
pline and freedom.

These initial experiences
comprise Norris’s “Dakota: A
Spiritual Geography,” :1 collec-
tion of long essays interspersed
with short, lyrical pieces, pub-
lished in 1993. A July 1996
article published in “The Chris-
tian Century” describes “Da-
kota” as Norris’ tale of her cs-
cape from the harried life of
New York and the rekindling of
faith which accompanied her
move to South Dakota. The
book became a best-seller.

Norris’s “Little Girls in
Church,” a collection of poetry,
followed in 1995. Her most
recent work ofprose, “The Clois-
ter Walk,” was published in
1996. In the latter, Norris de-
scribes her liturgical life at Saint
John’s Abbey in Minnesota, her
visits to other monastic houses,
and the various communities in
which she has lived, according
to a May 1996 article published
in “Commonweal.”

Norris has won critical ac-
claim for her works. She can

“bring alive the old desert fa-
thers and mothers, the saints of
the calendar, the idiosyncracies
of community life, the travails
of small-town living, the joys
and pains of marriage and old
age,” according to a
“Commonweal” May 1996 ar-
ticle.

Professor W. Lad Sessions,
Professor of Philosophy, also
praises Norris’s ability. Based
on his reading of“Dakota,” Ses-
sions characterizes Norris as “a
very poeticwriter”wlIoemploys
“awono'erfully spare use oflan-
guage.” According to Sessions,
Norris has the ability to look
beyond surface matters.

“Thereisadepthtothisworld
whichsheappreciates,”Sessions
said.

Sessionsencouragesstudents
to attend her appearance.

“l"durgcanyonethatlcould
to come and just listen to the
sound of her language,” Ses-
sions said. “[Norris is] a
woman who has taken a path
which many Americans do
not: a path to the spiritual,
and not just to the flashy,
materialistic world.”

Kat/Ileen Norris will appear
on Tuesday, March 18, at-1:30
p.m. in Nort/Ien AIIa'iI0rium.

Thanks to Professor Cathleen
C upper for /rer help in writin g this
article.

W&1ife 
asgow hosts reading by

 

PAGE 3

Norris

[hole by Mark omiany

Tracing her return to spirituality:

Kathleen Norris’s “Little Girls in the Church” is a
volume of poetry set in the.Dakotas, New Jersey, and a
monastery. Norris will appear on Tuesday, March 18,
at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium to discuss “Little
Girls,” as well as her other works.

FROM PHI STAFF REPORTS

Vladimir Sharov scheduled to speak

Vladimir Sharov, visiting Russian novelist, will make
two presentations at Washington and Lee University. In
the first, scheduled for March 19 at 7:00 in Room 221 of
the Williams School, he will read from his work and
speak on"“Russia,’_ the Bible’ and the Jews.”' 'Sh'arov’s

second lecture, “From” Under the R',Iibble:'():nei Writer’s I
Journey,” will be held a week later, on March 26, at 7:00

in the same location.

The first two novels of Vladimir Sharov were initially
banned by the Soviet government but finally came into
print six years ago. “Treading in the Tracks” was pub-
lished in 1991, and “Rehearsals” in 1992. Then “Before
and During” appeared in 1993, and “And Should I Not
Pity,” in 1995. All four were nominated for the presti-
gious Booker Russian Novel Prize for best novel in the
years of their publication.

Sharov has resided in Moscow since his birth there in
1952, but has spent the last half year here in Lexington,
where he hasjust finished a new novel entitled “An Old
Girl.”

The plots of his novels are very complex. On the
simplest level, “Treading in the Tracks” mirrors the
history of modern Russia through the history of a family
originating with a step-brotherof Jesus Christ. “Rehears-

_ the .To\ver.0f.l3al)el and the biblical Deluge. _This last.
novel has provokeda great deal of heated debate. Com-

wrote, “This eternal masquerade of history, a vaudeville

als” portrays recent Russian history through the story of
exiled Siberian actors attempting to perform the Passion
ofChrist in order to bring the Second Advent. The action
of“BefOreandDuring”beginswiththe people inhabiting
the “Department of Senile Sclerosis” of the Gcnushkin
Hospital, and unfolds their destinies as a Inad history of
twentieth-century’ Russia, while drawing parallels with

menting on this, the literary critic, M. Nekhoroshev,

with much dressing-up, which more often than not turns
into a tragedy, represents the subject ofSharov’s novels.
With Sharov, historical, philosophical, and theological
problems are woven into the lively narrative....Sharov’s
novel precisely hits the sore place of present-day soci-
ety.”

Both ofSharov’s lectures are open to the public. The
first is sponsored by the Weinstein Fund for Jewish
Studies and the second by the Russian Studies Program
of Washington and Lee University.

Vladimir Sharov will appear Wednesday to
read from his work. Sharov will present a
second lecture, “From Under the Rubble: One
Writer’s Journey,” one week later.

Photo courtesy ol"l‘he Religion Department

De—mystifying Saint Patrick’s Day

BY ANDREA EWING
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Would you like to kiss my
Blarney stone?

Happy St. Patrick’s Day. If
you don’t wear green on Mon-
day,prepare to be pinched. March
17 is the day that we all become
Irish forjust 24 hours. Or at least
you claim to be so you can drink
more beer.

But why do we do things like
put green food coloring in milk
or wear pins that say “Kiss me
I’m Irish?” And what about the
fact that every city in the country
has a St. Patrick’s Day parade
even if the community has no

Irish heritage?

What is the purpose?

St. Patrick’s Day is an Irish
holiday honoring St. Patrick, the
patron saint oflreland. Although
not actually Irish (St. Patrick was
born in either Roman Britain or
Scotland in 385 A.D.), he is be-

- lieved to be responsible for con-

verting the Irish people to Chris-
tianity.

3 St. Patrick’s real name was
Maewyn Succat. He took the
name Patrick when he became a
priest. At 16, St. Patrick was
kidnapped by pirates and sold
into slavery in Ireland. During
six years working as a shepherd,
Patrick began to have religious
visions and took strength from

his faith. He escaped to France
after a vision told him where he
could find a getaway ship. There
he became a priest and later a
bishop. Whileincaptivity,Patrick
became driven bytheideaofcon-
verting Ireland to Christianity.
Sent as a missionary to Ireland
by Pope Celestine 1, Patrick
founded over 300 churches and
converted over 120,000 people.
Legend has it that he used the
shamrock, which resembles a
three-leaf clover, as a metaphor
to explaintheconceptoftheTrin-
ity. He used it in his sermons to
represent how the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Spirit could all exist
as separate elements ofthe same
entity.Anotherlegend associated

with St. Patrick states that he gave
asermon fromahilltopwhich drove
all the snakes in Ireland into the sea
where they drowned. The snake is
a pagan symbol and this legend
may allude to the fact that he drove
paganism out of Ireland. A third
tale includes the belief that Patrick
raised people from the dead.

Patrick preached in Ireland
until his death on March 17, 461
AD.

Originally a Catholic holiday,
St.Patrick’sDayhasevolvedinto
a more secular celebration. Fol-
lowers of St. Patrick adopted the
custom of wearing a shamrock
on his feast day.

The first celebration of St.
Patrick’s Day in the New World

occurred in Boston in 1737. Over
100 cities now hold St. Patrick’s
Day celebrations, the largest in
New York City.

St.Patty’s Day has become an
excuse to wear green and party!
On this day “everybody is Irish!”

Green is associated with St.
Patrick’s Day because it is the
color of spring, Ireland, and the
shamrock. Leprechau ns are also
associated with St.Patrick’s Day,
but it is difficult to understand
why. The leprechaunsoflegends
are actually nasty little critters.

Perhaps St. Patrick’s Day is
only another excuseto go out and
have a beer or wear some really
tacky green outfit, but hey why
not do it— everyone else does.

Fridays! gave

alike a chance to

Center:

Photos by Mark Slomiany

students and faculty

showcase their talents
in “The Gong Show”
last Wednesday.

Left: Burr Datz plays his guitar
to “Gong Show” victory.

Wes Armstrong 1 who
acted as the evening's host,lbegs
the audience for more actd.

Right: President Elrod, who
acted as the evening's gong-
master, fulfills his duty. ‘

 

 

   

The English Patient’
depicts how a movie

becomes an event’

{task 1/2
of 4 stars;
fails to
“ravish”

The pitch:
“lt’ll be like
‘Lawrence of
Arabia’ meets
‘Mississippi
Burning.”’

BY ALEX CHRISTENSEN
PHI MovIE CRITIC

It’s hard to separate a movie from the hype surrounding
it. I had been waiting to see “The English Patient” for a long
time before it came out. “Truly, Madly, Deeply,” by director
Anthony Minghella is a great little film that has had a great
deal of favorable attention on video (if you thought “Ghost”
was great, “Truly, Madly, Deeply” will blow you out of the
water). Ralph Fiennes has had a singularly meteoric rise
since “Schindler’s List” and through one of last year’s best
films, “Strange Days.” Kristin Scott Thomas owned “Four
Weddings and a Funeral.” And Juliette Binoche took us
through real heartbreak in Kieslowski’s “Blue.” Further-
more, critics and others described the film in glowing terms,
as a magnificent love story with the scope and fire of
“Casablanca” and “Lawrence of Arabia.” Now it’s going to
win Best Picture at the Academy Awards.

Can any film live up to that hype? Probably not. “Secrets
& Lies” does this year, as does “Fargo.” “The English
Patient” does not. In fact, it didn’t even crack my top twenty
for the year. I’d like to take this opportunity to list films that
were better than “The English Patient”just this year. Hope-
fully, somebody out there might seek them out on video and
see what the Academy overlooked this year. In addition to
the aforementioned “Secrets & Lies” and “Fargo,” “Big
Night,” “Paradise Lost: The Child Murders at Robin Hood
Hills,” “Sling Blade,” “Beautiful Thing,” “Jerry Maguire,”
“Heavy,” “Dead Man,” “Set It Off,” “Kids in the Hall Brain
Candy,” “Get on the Bus,” “The People vs. Larry Flynt,’’
“Evita,” “William Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet,” “The
Cable Guy,” “Flirting with Disaster,” “Stealing Beauty,”
“Heaven’s Prisoners,” “Twister,” “Lone Star,” “Antonia’s
Line,” “Emma,” “Swingers,” and “The Young Poisoner’s
Handbook” are all better, more complete films than “The
English Patient.”

The problem, it seems to me, is that the Academy is
obsessed with finding a film with huge scope. Instead of

-looking forwhat’-s the bestfil-m (and-,-adm-ittedly, they’ve .

done better than they have in previous years this time), they
want an “event.” And “The English Patient” has all the
elements of a critics’ darling event film. Love, war, sex,
death, loyalty, betrayal, hopeless loss, and blah, blah, blah.

Some people have recently criticized the film, as they
criticized “Ghosts of Mississippi” earlier in the year, for
having an improper political focus. That’s a valid criticism,
but I still feel that if a film works, this kind of pernicious
fictional/historical revisionism is a secondary issue. Cer-
tainly, “Ghosts of Mississippi” fell down on these grounds,
but it wasn’t ruined. Neither is “The English Patient.”

What ruins “The English Patient,” or keeps it from as-
cending to the four-star range, is that the main love story is
so bloodless and boring that almost everything else in the
movie transcends it. The sweep and scope of the film keep
bumping up against this huge barrier to enjoying the film.
Kristin Scott Thomas looks uncomfortable through most of
the film. Her usual ability to bring deep undercurrents of
emotion to the screen, best exemplified by her telling Hugh
Grant she loves him in “Four Weddings,” is completely
missing here. There’s no chemistry with Ralph Fiennes.
And Fiennes himself seems to be sleepwalking. Whoever
thought he deserved a Best Actor nomination for this oddly
detached loser character was probably wacky on thcjunk. If
this were his first film, he would have gotten no recognition
for it whatsoever. Not that it would have killed his career;
he’s been brilliant and will be again. But it’s really nothing
spectacular. Forget the fact that his character, Laszlo dc
Almasy, was really a Nazi sympathizer who ruined lives and
betrayed his friends—Fiennes can’t even make him fall in
love. And that’s what’s necessary.

That said, the film is absolutely gorgeous. The desert and the
geography ofthe human body coincide provocatively. War and
the people involved in it are intertwined in a profound way. And
theunderlyinglovestory, between nurse Hana(Juliette Binoche)
and bomb defuser Kip (Navcen Andrews) is charming, and
would have been the perfect compliment to the main story if
Fiennes and Scott Thomas had been up to it. Sadly, they weren’t,
and the film misses its big opportunity. “The English Patient”
is well worth seeing for what’s there, but it can’t come together
with this huge flaw.

Photo courtesy of Miramax Films

 

  

PAGE 4

OPINION/ ADVERTISING

Danto’s lecture ‘over before it began’

BY DAVID KEELING
W&L CLASS or ’73

Professor Arthur C. Danto’s lec-
turelastwednesday eveningatduPont
Halleoneerningcognitionandtheceil-
ing of the Sistine Chapel was over, in
my opinion, almost before it began.
This Columbia University professor,
highly esteemed in the field of cogni-
tive and aesthetic philosophy, in im-
provised comments prior to reading
his lecture, said that it is only by writ-
ingaboutapaintingthata workcan be
understood.

Professor Danto earns his bread
and butter by the quantity and quality
of the words he delivers in the class-
room and publishes in text, so he
may be expected to have a bias
toward verbosity. lndeed his mas-
tery of language is of the highest
intellectual standard. However,
to say that a work of art cannot be
understood unless one writes about it,
is simply wrong.

There is a limit to the power of
words. Each defines, explains, pro-

     

Leprechaun:

.   

g  _ , , _,.,A _
What is good luck on S
* Finding a four-leaf clover (that’s double the good luck it usually is).

* Wearing green. (School children have stared a little tradition of their own —
they pinch class mates who don’t wear green on this holiday.

* Kissing the blarney stone.

vides understanding, but is unable to
give the full, complete meaning nec-
essary to dsseribe some works of art.
Words such as magnificent, supreme,
sublime, do their best to rise to the
heights of wonder or beauty in a
Michelangelo fresco, but they fail to
do it justice. That is the greatness of
the painter—~he is superior to our best
attempts at verbal description. The
wordsthemselves, however well used,
fail to describe the vastness, the
subtlety, the strength ofthe painting.
The artist takes us to heights which are
literally “beyond understanding.”
There is a sense ofawe in the spiri-
tual realm which some people experi-
ence——moments when they are over-
come, so impressed, perhaps so
humbled,thattheyareliterally“dumb-
struck.” Attempts to use words or to
express thoughts at such times are
unnecessary, trivial. One is speech-
less. The mind, which chooses the
words, which reasons and calculates
logically, isatsuch momentssilenced,
humbled in its inability to describe.
Those who are masters ofthe mind,
of the intellect and of its tools— the

   

Glossary 0’ Terms

. bay? if

wordswhichdotheirbcsttodescribe—
are often unable to appreciate this
higher realm of spiritual awareness
which is beyond the cognitive mind.
The greatest artists help us to see this
vision,thisplacewhichoneeglimpsed,
orfelt, seems so powerful that it is said
by some to be the true reality. It is a
place beyond cognition, beyond un-
derstanding, beyond words; a place
which if Professor Danto had once
sensed, he seems to have forgotten.
Professor Danto gave a lecture
which he read verbatim from his text.
His melodiousvoiceandsophistieated
diction, delivered in a monotone, was
tiresome. Much of his lecture was
devoted to the old argument about the
cleaningofthe Sistine Chapel ceiling,
in which he suggested that his opin-
ions were at least as important asthose
who care for the Chapel itself. He
endedhislecturewitheommentsabout
lmmanuel Kant and Friedrich
Nietzsche,amongotherstandardphilo-
sophical icons. Duringthebriefques-
tion period, Professor Danto was asked
to enlarge upon his notion of “cogni-
tive pollution,” which he explained.

   

 
     
 
  
    
   
 

lrish fairy. Looks like a small, old man (about 2 feet tail), that is often dressed
like a shoemaker, with a cocked hat and a leather apron. According to the
legend, leprechauns are aloof and unfriendly, live alone, and pass the time
making shoes they also possess a hidden pot of gold. Treasure hunters can
often track down a leprechaun by the sound of his shoemaker’s hammer. If
caught, he can be forced (with the threat of bodily violence) to reveal the
whereabouts of his treasure, but the captor must keep their eyes on him every
second. if the captor’s eyes leave the leprechaun (and he often tricks them into
looking away), he vanishes and all hopes of finding the treasure are lost.

Blamey Stone:

The Blarney Stone is a stone set in the wall of the Blarney Castle tower in the
Irish village of Blarney. Kissing the stone is supposed to bring the kisser the
gift of persuasive eloquence (blarney). The castle was built in 1446 by Cormac
Laidhiv McCarthy (Lord of Muskerry) — its walls are 18 feet thick (necessary to
thwart attacks by Cromwellians and William lll’stroops). Thousands of tourists
a year still visit the castle.

 

From www.nand.net/toys/stpaddy/stpaddy.html
%%W%%%


i
is
1
3

3
~:

   

FACULTY

/V 0 r

E

©1997 Tzurlzem Inaunmrr am} Annuity A.r.mr1'uIlirm/Cal/eye Rttirtmrnf Equilien Fund, 730 Third Avrnuz, New York, NY

F or fast relief‘ from the nagging ache of taxes, we
recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are tax-
defered annuities designed to help build additional assets
——money that can help make the difference between

living and living uw// after your working years are over.

lnstant tax savings
Contributions to your SRAS are deducted from your
salary on a pretax basis, so you pay less in taxes now. And
since earnings on your SRAS are also tax-deferred until
you receive them as retirement income, the money you

don't send to Washington can work even harder for you.

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-creflorg

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it."

°Based on assets under management.

CREF certiﬁcates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and lnstitutional Services, Inc. For more complete information, including charges and expenses.
call 1 800 842-2733, ext. 5509, for a current CRFYF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. Date of ﬁrst use: 2/97.

Loans and more.
What else do SRAS offer? A valuable loan
option. plus a full range of investment choices and
the financial expertise of TIAA-CREF—America's

largest retirement organization.“

The sooner you act,
the sooner relief begins.

To find out more, stop by your benefits office or
give us a call at 1 800 842-2888. We'll show you how
SRAs can lower your taxes.

Do it today. It couldn't hurt.

 

/195 vaét-|tr~&'r'oN mart‘ WRITZEE !:2ou7

"FLUNKIN6 OUT”
lé 400.: A
utxtzsu TERM.
we Pie:-.F;R1a ettt
You snow l’RoN\\éE
Foﬁ tx ctx\<\’=t;\< \N
e°\te\<NNENi \N°l<\<_,.

ll l\\\\\\i7T’/i

1%’

  

     
  
   
     
  
 
      

 

9/V9 tMret\lMe;roN war utlrrﬁs aux’

'3 r '/l

.‘ V747////I///ILL” 1/,/]_
., Q /2 , / ,//‘ 
V / . _ 41/L;

7/

P  i ‘ alllliiiﬁi i if

\
H.“
g um

 

Tut; goof) News is,
THE A1»-stat ANY To ‘mt;
N>6l6TANT. offlcé tNxNtxt=eR
lké-5lsTlNt— 'fL\E FlFTlA
LEVEL Vlcé Fl?Esll7ENT
of OUR Plvlélou INFORM9
ME THAT Tl-\E CORPORATE
l70V\JNelZlN9 Lllé» l~Llt<>’sT
LEVELEV oF‘€..

(,)...j.).5 w,\~a\x\rlt>rc.N t"o€.T v~w,\\:-:5-,9. ;.\§O\)\~>

Tl-\E NEW l3P\.l.‘(\\l0oV
QTFXK éY§\‘EN\...

The Phiapologizes for omitting sophomore Greg Bunk
and juniors David Gentry, Jake Sewall and Melissa
Parker from last week’s article on the Keck geology
scholarship. Congratulations on all your hard work.

Do you know someone who is
‘pregnant and considering adoption?
Give the baby the best opportunity in

life. Please consider the loving op-
tion of adoption With Sue and John, a
happily married couple offering to
share their lives with a precious baby.
Speak with someone who cares and
will help you.
Ask for Ruth: (804) 832-2049

$7.00 per hour plus
$150.00 per month hous-
ing allowance. Largest
rental service on the
Outer Banks of North
Carolina (Nags Head).
Call Donafor application
and housing info 800-
662-2122.

 

 

MARCH 17, 1997 if

