‘R

i

i»

 
  

‘ 'J7"v-‘l‘./',é:‘.l'-iS!T‘v‘
2414150

SEP 2 3 1995 A

Cilia ﬂing-tum iﬁhi  

VOLUME : NUMBER 5

Swipe your
way to safety:

, BY LIZ DETTER

PHI STAFF WRITER

It’s Wednesday night. A
student makes his way to the
door of Woods Creek West
Apartments. He is tired after a
long night of partying. He pulls
on the door handle, anticipating
the warm comfort of sleep
awaiting him. But what is this?
The door is locked! He mutters
an expletive under his breath and
pounds on the door, but to no
avail. If only he had his
University Card! Oh well, he
thinks as he vaults onto a first
floor balcony, calmly strides
through the empty common room,
lets himself into the main hall of
the building, and climbs the stairs
to his apartment.

This scenario actually
occurred. The new security
system in Woods Creek and
Gaines Hall has led to some
creative solutions to the
predicament of being locked out.

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

The security system
installation began last year with
the freshmen dorms. Over the
summer, an identical card-
swiping system was installed at
the main entrances to the
upperclass residences. This was
the second phase of the
implementation of a more
comprehensive security system
on W&L’s campus.

In, the pa_st, the University
had been concerned with the
security of the dorms. W&L Chief
of Security Mike Young said, “I
felt, and the Dean of Students
felt, we were not providing the
security we should for the
students. The extension of the
University “One-Card” was an
easy jump.”

The card-swipe system is
designed to limit access to
University housing to members
of the W&L community. It is
very simple. Just swipe your
University Card, wait’for the
green light, the door unlocks, and

GENERAL NOTES

According to information
released by U.S. News &
World Report magazine,
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity is now ranked 13th among
the nations top liberal arts
colleges and universities. Last
year W&L was ranked 15th.
This year marks the third con- _
secutive year that Washing-
ton and Lee has moved up in

Washington and Lee
University ranks among the
top colleges and universities

' in the nation in support per
student according to a recent
study by the Council for Aid to
Education (CAE) entitled
Voluntary Support of
Education Survey 1995.
Washington and Lee
ranked fourth in alumni
support and 19th in support
by all sources (alimni and
corporations) in the category
‘The 20 Colleges or Universities
Reporting the Most Voluntary

The Washington and Lee
School of Law was one of three
institutions to receive the
American Bar Association’s
E . Smythe Gambrell Award for
Professionalism. The award,
presented at the Bar
Association’s annual meeting
in Orlando, was established
in 199 1 by the A.B.A. Standing
Committe on Professionalism
to recognize bar associations,

W&L MOVES TO 13TH IN U.S. NEWS:

UNIVERSITY TOP IN ALUM SUPPORT:

LAW SCHOOL EARNS ABA AWARD:

Compiled by David Balsley and James Sammons

the U.S. News rankings.
Among the categories used
to evaluate the institutions are
academic reputation, student
selectivity, faculty recources,
freshman retention rate, and
alumni giving rate.
Washington and Lee was
also ranked number 20 by the
magazine in the category of
best value-discount price.

Support Per Student in 1995.”

The Voluntary Support of
Education Survey, conducted
by the Council for Aid to
Education, is designed to
obtain information on the
amounts, sources, donor-
specified purposes, and forms
of private giﬁzs, grants, and
bequests recieved by
educational institutions. The
1995 survey collected data on
funds raised from private
sources for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 19.94 and
ending June 30 1995.

law schools, law ﬁrms, and ~
other law related
organizations that “further the
professional and ethical
development of lawers, before
they even become lawyers.”
The W&L law school was
recognized for the
“ProfessionalismThrough Law
and Literature Studies”
program offered to upper-level
law students and alumni.

F OPINION
GENERATION Ln:

 

Tips from Betsy on how to pass a summer inMetro Lex .

page 2
} FEATURES

I4 Suddenly Susan is in Spin City with those
Misbehaving Men in C. E. Miller's fall TV
A review. G-word. . .something those seniors
don’t wanna hear. . .in Reality 101. And,
yes, we admit it, Alex Christensen doesn’t

know Jack. page 3
V SPORTS

 

Football prepares to open ODAC play
against Giiford College tomorrow. Mens
and womens soccer remain underieated.
Volleyball reigns supreme at home invita-
tional. Check outthe Phi's Jock Shorts. The
Big Fan busts on the Olympic coverage.

page 4

re-locks behind you. The trick is
to have a University Card.
What about pizza delivery?
Young said, “What we anticipated
was going to be a problem last year
was not. People that wanted pizza
just had to meet [the delivery guy] .”
Sophomores are accustomed
to the system, and got into the
habit of carrying their University
cards as freshman. It’s no big
deal to them, nor will it be to the
Class of 2000. With a shrug of
her shoulders, sophomore Laura
Cohen said, “We’re used to it; we
did it last year. We know we can’t
live without our cards.”
Juniors and seniors are
having more difficulty adjusting
to the new system. Marisa Frost,
a junior, said, “It’s a chafe. I
appreciate the concern for our
safety, but I don’t see the
necessity. I’m sure it will cut
down on thefts, but when I forget

my card, it’s a pain to bang on the
door.”

According to Young, thefts
were not the primary reason for
the extension of the system. “We
weren’t thinking about that. We
were thinking about extending all of
ourhousingunderthesamesystem.”

Nonetheless the benefits are
evident. Young said, “Two years
ago we had 30 instances of theft
from [freshman] dorm rooms.
Last year we had 2 instances.”

Junior Celeste Rasmussen,
an R.A. in Gaines expressed
feeling safer this year. “Last year
there were random people from
town who would wander through
thehalls,diggingtlu*oughtrashcans.
Although all the bugs aren’t worked
out, I still it’s a good system.”

According to Young, “We’re
working to adjust those
problems.” Last year, one of the
glitches was that library copy

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

cards unlocked the doors. This is
no longer the case. The back
doors of Woods Creek West and
Central are currently being
replaced and outfitted with new
locks. Additionally, doors that
work slowly are being adjusted.

As part of the security
system, emergency phones were
installed outside Woods Creek
Central and beneath the
Gatehouse in Gaines. This brings
the number of security phones
up to 4. These phones can be
used to call security, or to buzz
someone to let you in.

The card-swiping system, is
the wave of the future at W&L.
The openness and accessibility of
the campus have been strong selling
points of the school. The new system
runs in tandem with those ideas.

Although no formal plans
have been made, the law school,
the library, and computer labs

SEPTEMBER 20, 1996

Security system added to upperclass housing

are possible sites for future
security systems. Fraternity
houses, which are campus-
owned, may not be immune,
either. Young stated, “It’s
something that’s in my mind and
has been discussed.”

Lexington seems very safe,
and some students came here
trying to escape the worries of
the real world. However, after
reports of theft and the occasional
“Peeping Tom,” it appears that
Lexington is not quite so idyllic.

Young encourages students
to lock their doors. Students can
reach the security office 24 hours
a day at x8999, and should call
any time they feel hesitant to
walk home, or see anyone
suspicious lurking about.

And remember—the
University One-Card——don’t
leave home without it, unless you
want to break in to your building.

SCC votes to morph into SJC

BY RACHEL Gonpu

PHI STAFF WRITER
t’s not often that someone
decides it is time for change
here at Washington and Lee, but that
day has finally arrived for the Student Con-
duct Committee. This decision was prompted
by the vision of SCC Chair Robert Covington
'97 as well as the University’ s desire to break
away from it’s hard drinking, hard partying
national reputation.

The plans for the future are radical, and
not just by W&L standards. The Student
Conduct Committee which deals with infrac-
tions such as hazing, vandalism, and fight-
ing will be renamed the Student Judicial
Council (SJ C). In order to make the hearing
process more efficient the SJC will follow a
plethora of new rules as dictated in the Blue
Book. Similar to the Executive Committee’s
White Book, the Blue Book outlines penal-
ties for most digressions from gentlemenly
conduct. Like the White Book, the SJC’s own
version of Crime and Punishment will be

available for students to read soon and is
already beingused to ease the transition from
the Student Conduct Committee to SJ C.

In the past, the existing committee has
not always exercised its authoriy and the
administration has intervened. The new sys-
tem hopes to change all that and bring back
more “students governing students.”

The SJC will be staffed by four elected
justices, one from each undergraduate class,
and the three law school class presidents, an
SJ C chair and secretary elected by student
body. These nine people will be voting mem-
bers of the committee. In addition to the
nine voting members, four permanent advis-
ers, the Head Dorm Counselor, Head Resi-
dence Assistent, the Heads of the Interfra-
ternity Council and Panhelenic, will also sit
on the committee.

“[The permanent advisors‘] input is de-
signed to raise the level of SJC decisions and
maintain the highest sense of justice in SJC
decision,” Paul Saboe, current SCC secre-
tary explained.

Unlike the current system, undergradu-

ate class officers will not be involved in the
hearing of conduct cases. The issue of what
will happen to class officers has not been
resolved yet.

The new program seems to benefit both
the accused and the council. Students, by
reading the Blue Book, will have a better
idea of what they can expect and board
members will have an easier time deciding
their fate. The entire overhaul centers around
the fact that specific guidelines for each
infraction are already known in advance.
This will make the system stronger, easier
and more efficient.

Discussions have already begun with
campus leaders to inform them of what is
going on and to take into consideration their
ideas. In late October it is expected that the
proposal will go to the Student Affairs Com-
mittee and if it succeeds there, will travel to
the faculty for final approval. If all goes as
planned by many hard working W&L‘ers,
the SJC will be a reality in fall 1997.

Now...don’t you wish you hadn’t thrown
that last beer bottle???

1996 Convocation
Initiates new tradition

BY DAVID BALSLEY

PHI STAFF WRITER
11 Wednesday, Septem
ber 11, Washington
and Lee University ini-
tiated the 1996-1997 academic
year by hosting Opening Convo-

cation. This year’s convocation,

unlike the Convocations of pre-
vious years, was open to all stu-
dents. Although the Front Lawn
had been the intended sight of
Opening Convocation, the event
was moved to the Warner Cen-
ter.

Until the mid-1960s, Open-
ing Convocation was open to all
students. However, for the past
three decades, only seniors and
representative law students were
invited to the event.

This year, President John W.
Elrod re-established the tradi-
tion of inviting all students to
Opening Convocation. Elrod
based his decidion on his belief
that “a university-wide occasion
to remind ourselves of our pur-
pose as a university” should be
open to the whole school. Look-
ing to the future, Elrod com-
mented that Opening Convoca-
tion will be open to the whole
university each year. He added
that he would like to make con-
vocations, which would be open
to all students, “regular
occurences” at W&L.

Elrod, in conference with the V

faculty and administration of
W&L, selected Paula P. Brownlee
to speak at this year’s convoca-
tion. Brownlee is the current
President of the Association of
American Colleges and former
President of Hollins College.
Brownlee was reccomended to
Elrod by Linda Lorima.
Approximately seven hun-
dred and fifty students, faculty
members, and visitors swarmed
into the Warner Center to hear

Brownlee speak on the value of a
liberal arts education. Elrod
stated that he was “pleased with
the freshman attendance, and
with the senior attendance,” and
that he was pleased that a num-
ber of sophomores and juniors
were present at convocation.
Elrod summed his impressions
of the turnout at Opening Convo-
cation by commenting that at-
tendance was “quite good.” In
addition, Dean of Students David
L. Howison praised the Class of
2000, stating, “What was excep-
tional was the attendance by the
freshmen.”

Elrod bemoaned the neces-
sity of moving Opening Convoca-
tion from the Front Lawn to the
Warner Center. “It is always
desirable to have university
events which involve the whole
University on our picturesque
campus,” Elrod stated. “The
Front Lawn, with Lee Chapel in
the background, is a natural am-
phitheater.” Elrod continued,
“The Warner Center is noisy and
hot and a great place to play
basketball, but no place for an
opening convocation.” Sharing
Elrod’s sentiment, Howison
stated that “having it inside
changed the character of the Con-
vocation.”

Opening Convocation was
followed by a dinner sponsored
by the President’s Office and ca-
tered by Washington and Lee
University Dining Services.

Elrod praised the hard work
of Brian Shaw and Holt Mer-
chant, to whom he gave credit for
planning all the details of Open-
ing Convocation. Elrod also ex-
pressed his great appreciation
for all the work that Buildings
and Grounds and Dining Ser-
vices did in preparing for the
event. The speed and efficiency
of these groups, Elrod stated, was
highly commendable.

 
    
  
  

tateif , However,_‘ the‘ modern

-Nietzsche. Mansfi_eld~ com

  those whosupportied the . ,

 zmented that the German phi

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

Americanmovementgrewou   I
"of the philosophy of such Ger-‘ 1 ' ‘g V ,
‘man greats as ‘ Friedrich”-3'  

 

PAGE 2

OPINION

The Ring-Tum Phi,

SEPTEMBER 20, 1996

Things to do in

Lexington
when it's dead

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

I stayed in Lexington all sum-
mer. About half an hour after
graduation last June, just about all
of the students cleared out. A dog
could have taken a nap in the middle
of main street and would have been
undisturbed until the law students
came back.

In spite of the fact that Lexing-
ton is rather, er, quiet in the sum-
mer, there were a lot of ways to
keep myself amused here.

For one thing, I worked a lot. I
gave tours for the admissions of-
fice. So ,in essence, I spent most of
my summer walking backwards

“The most
fun you can
have . . .
in Virginia.”

while high school students fol-

lowed me around asking questions.
And what questions they were.

There are some really weird people
out there. Like the guy who wanted
to know how many acres of land
W&L has. Yeah, an important
factor in any college decision. I
assured him there’s plenty of room
for everyone. One dad asked me
several technical questions about
the computers in our labs, perhaps
thinking his son would use them
for something other than writing
papers or e-mail. After telling him
for the ﬁfth time, “I don’t know,

but I’d be happy to direct you to ‘

University Computing,” I gave up
and told him that most of the com-
puters were either grey or beige
and that was all I knew.

A lot of sticky questions came
from overprotective parents. I think
I have finally come up with a good
way to answer The Alcohol Ques-
tion that is honest, yet doesn’t make
us look like drunken heathens. A
lot of parents asked me about smok-
ing, panic-stricken that any smoke
might enter Junior’s lungs. Some
of them were supposedly severely
allergic to smoke. If that’s the
case, they are going to be screwed
wherever they go for the rest of
their lives.

Some parents went so far as to

worry about how the kid would
get to the airport without a univer-
sity-certified shuttle service.
Rather than sending their kids to
W&L, where they can learn to
take care of themselves, these par-
ents should keep their kids locked
up like veal, safe from the outside
world.

I had to laugh at people who
asked me detailed questions about
our placement in graduate schools
for Korean Footwear studies or
something. Supposedly, these kids
already know what they are going
to do with the rest of their lives.
Hello? They’re only seventeen!
I’m not sure I want to do, but at
least I know that.

One thing’s for sure; work was
never boring (ask me sometime
about the tour I gave to a priest).
And I can walk backwards like a
champ.

When I wasn’t walking back-
wards, there were still ways to
have fun here. My favorite thing
to do was go to the different fairs
around here. My fiancée Steve
and I lost at bingo at the Buchanan

fair, and watched girls with big
hair fight with their boyfriends.

The Lexington fair was also a lot
of fun. Many of the stuffed ani-
mals to be won were red bulldogs,
just like Red Dog beer. Why isn’t
someone in Congress protesting
this marketing idea? But the most
spectacular sights to see were at
the Salem fair. People came in
from the mountains and made the
Salem fair their vacation. And at
the Salem fair, Steve and I saw one
of the oddest things ever.

We went into a free informa-
tion booth which featured fun facts
about ostriches. How fast they

run, how-big their eggs are, things,

like that. At theend, we saw live
ostriches, running around in their
pen. We were then given a coupon
for the stand next door, which sold
ostrich meat. Whose idea was
that? Were people supposed to
learn about ostriches and think,
“y’know, that sounds tasty?”
Could we have chosen our own
ostrich, like a lobster? There were
commercials for weeks for the
Salem fair. The jingle promised
that it was, “the most fun you can
have. . . in Virginia.” I should
have never doubted it.

I’d recommend a summer in
Lex Vegas to anyone. Nothing
beats walking backwards eating
an ostrich burger.

Quote of the Week:

“Is there a single computer in the
dorms that works?”

-A frustruated Sophomore

dent.

and obscenity.

@112 ﬂing-mm iﬂhi

Executive Editor ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord
News Editor .................................................................. ..Hillary Coombs
Editorial Page Editor ........................................................ ..Jason Zacher
Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman
Features Editor .......................................... ..C. E. Miller. Dan Odenwald
Photography Editor ........................  .......... ..' ....................... ..Sam Levine

Editorial Cartoonists .................................. ..Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager .......................... ..
Assistant Business Manager ........... ..
Advertisement Composition Artist....

................................. ..Wi1l Hershey
............................. ..Doug Ghertner
.................................. ..Tarah Grant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington. Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive
editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi oﬂice. room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters.
columns. and “My Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring]-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4059

Fax: (540) 462-4060

E-mai: ‘phi@wlu.edu

um, GENE‘RATioN

LEX
BE in me RING
mm on:

GENERATION Lax

 
    
     
      
   

 
 

ISN'T GDNNA

ANYMORE.

     
  

  
     
     

HMBE we NWT
CARTOMIST um.
MN»! M6 Somé

EVES.

Minimum wage, minumum pay 

 

Joshua Heslinga ‘98

Just this year, I became a work-
study here at Washington and Lee.
This past spring, the opportunity
presented itself, and I figured that I
could certainly use a little extra
money to cover expenses that were
substantially higher than they
would have been at home.

So you can imagine my excite-
ment, and I’m sure many of you felt
the same way, upon hearing that
the increase in the minimum wage
had passed. The extra money was
practically in my bank account al-
ready.

Now, I should say that I’m a
conservative Republican. Had I
been in Congress, I would have
voted against raising the minimum
wage, but upon initial examina-
tion, I figured that as long as it had
already been raised, why continue
to cry over spilled milk when I’m
one of those people who will real-
ize the increase?

You may remember at the time
of debate, Democrats in Congress
trumpeted the measure, saying that
it would finally give struggling
Americans a“living wage.” (Never
mind that in the two years in which
they controlled Congress and the
White House, they never saw the
need to “help” Americans in this

way.) They also demonized Re-
publicans who favored a small-
business exemption, designed to
reduce the number of jobs lost and
businesses closed because of the
increase.

Bill Clinton used the occasion
to chide Bob Dole for not wanting
to give American workers more
money, despite the fact that in the
February 6, 1995 issue of Time
magazine, Clinton argued that an
increase in the minimum wage, “is
the wrong way to raise the income
of low-wage earners.”

While many Republicans agreed
that this made good policy (or
maybe political?) sense, another
group, led by House Majority
Leader Dick Armey (R-TX), ar-
gued that the minimum wage hurts
precisely the same low-skilled,
impoverished Americans that pro-
ponents said it would help by de-
stroying job opportunities that
would otherwise be available.
Armey and others argued that the
increased costs to business of the
increased minimum wage would
only be passed on to workers in
less benefits or less job openings.

Theeconomicconsensusonthis
point is pretty clear. Yet while few
economists would deny that rais-
ing the minimum wage costsjobs,
some will argue that the societal
benefits of increased wages would
outweigh the costs of lost jobs.

Many of you may remember
hearing in Econ 101 that if the
mandated minimum wage is higher
than the benefits a business would
reap from hiring another worker,
that business will refrain from hir-

Are you a liberal Democrat?

Do you ﬁnd Hes1inga’s
conservative opinions
enraging?

Would you love to take him
on in all subjects?

Would you like a Weekly
political column in the Phi?

Then The Ring-tum Phi editorial page needs you.

Just get in touch with the Editorial Editor,
Jason Zacher, at 463-2556, or write e-mail to:
jzacher@wlu.edu

ing. Absent that government man-
date, that business might be will-
ing to hire someone at a lower
wage. This is particularly true of
small business.

As I soon found out, W&L does
not rank as a stupid organization.
In September, every university
work-study student, including me,
got a letter telling them that the
university would now require that
upperclass students work no more
than eight hours a week, rather
than the previous ten.

“. . . you, the
person the in-
crease was
supposed to
help, lost
money.”

Doing the math on this change
tells you that this reduces your
potential weekly earnings from a
gross of $42.50 (10 x $4.25) to
$37.60 (8 x $4.70). By my count,
this amounts to a loss of $68.60 per
student over the 14 eligible work
weeks of fall term alone. Multiply
that by the 360 work study stu-
dents W&L employs, and the total
amount of money students will lose
during fall term alone reaches an
astounding $24,696.

Even when the next phase of the
minimum wage increase takes ef-

fect, each student will still be los-
ing $1.30 per week.

We’re not talking about insig-
niﬁcant amounts of money here,
especially to students who need
the financial aid a work-study job
provides. W&L actually made
money on the increase in the mini-
mum wage, while you, the person
the increase was supposed to help,
lost money.

This type of business action to
avoid the increased costs of the
raised minimum wage occurred
across the country. As Armey and
other warned, businesses won’t
stand still as government imposes
new mandates upon them; they

t

I.-

will quickly find a way to avoid thug:

new costs. (Although you can
credit W&L with going the extra
mile to find a way to make money
in the process.) Government ac-
tion does cause change in the
economy.

Now I do not want to sound
bitter, because I’m not. We are
lucky — most people working in
marginal minimum wage jobs for
businesses that can not afford the
increased costs just get fired or
lose the opportunity to be hired.
And it is usually not extra money
for them.

But the next time you hear a
liberal Democrat telling you hoe
government can intervene in the
economy, whether in the realm of
health care, the minimum wage, or
some other measure, and not cause
any problems, think about the ex-
tra course in economics W&L
work-study students are receiving
this fall.

Letters to
The Ring-tum Phi

Dear Editor,

I would like to take this oppor-
tunity to thank publicly the entire
W&L community for providing
such an enthusiastic welcome to
the Class of 2000 during the Fresh-
man Orientation program. Of par-
ticular importance was the work of
the Freshman Orientation Com-
mittee, and its extraordinary presi-
dent, Amy Gorham; the
unflaggingly dedicated committee
chairmen: Hollis Leddy, Hillary
Olson, Atticus Gill, Neal Kohl,
and Anurag Chandra; Ms. Michelle
Richardson; the Dormitory Coun-
selors; the Small Group Leaders;
the Big Brothers and Big Sisters;
and Mrs. Bonnie Walker, whose
behind-the-scenes work made
much of orientation possible. All
of these people gave unflaggingly
of themselves, planning and orga-
nizing orientation activities and
staffing virtually every orientation
event--from Casino Night to air-
port shuttles.

Thanks also go to: our Build-

ings and Grounds staff; our Food
Services staff who furnished the
culinary touches for several meet-
ings and special occasions; Jim
Farrar, Rob Mish, Frances Smith,.
Kathekon, Southern Comfort,
JubiLee, General Admission, and‘.
Gordon Spice for the Alimni As-»
sociation BBQ; Ms. Jan Neel with‘
Project Safe and Sound; Habitat.
for Humanity and APO Service’
Fraternity for excellent leadership
of the community service activity;
Sandy Hooper, Professor Cecil, and‘

it

the Executive Committee for sucit,
a meaningful orientation to the' I

Honor System.

Others too numerous to men-
tion also contributed to the Fresh-
man Orientation program, and this
general note must suffice as a thank

you. I am pleased that the Class of. --
2000--our Millennial Class--was-

the beneficiart of such a commu-
nity effort!

, Dennis G. Manning
Dean of the Freshman Program

 

 
 

f you, Mother Nature.)

~ you, but nobody I know is

" many “senior meetings.”
. arrival was a triumvirate of smiling ladies from the

 

W3: life

 

PAGE 3

The Ring-tum Phi, saw. 20, 1996
i

The etare are back

(or those people who never should have tried film)

C.E. MILLER
Features Editor

Baby, they’re back. Those stars who made television worth
watching in my earlier less busy teenage years are back trying
to convince me that I have other nights besides Thursday to

watch television.

CBS hopes that Ted Danson (sans toupee) former co-star Rhea
Pearlmen (more gentle) and Bill Cosby (sorry no sweaters) can
help nudge NBC’s sweep of Neilson’s top ten. ABC is relying
on television veteran Michael J. Fox, and “Designing Woman”

Annie Potts to stiffen the competition.

The other three underdogs (UPN, WB, and FOX) rely on the
usual additions to spice up otherwise predictable programming
schedules. UPN’s “Homeboys in Outer Space” proves how low
some executives will go to get an audience. I mean what is that

about? i

NBC is still the master of sitcoms. Two additions stand out as
exceptional. First “Men Behaving Badly” is a must see (even
for this die hard Thursday nighter.) The first episode which
previewed onWednesday was exceptionally funny. The writing
in strong, and the jokes down to earth. Justine Bateman
(Family Ties) is a little bigger, and less into mall shopping and
relatively unimportant in this show. Ron Eldard, who spent
last season on the critically acclaimed “ER” and Rob Schnieder
perfectly portray what happened when Beavis and Butt-Head
grew up. The best line of the night had to be, “Some discussions

need beer.:”

NBC’s other sure fire hit, only because of its time slot, is
“Suddenly Susan.” If you like stupid people doing stupid

things that would never actually happen then maybe you’ll

love it. Personally I feel it resembles the other poor, poor NBC
sitcom “Third Rock From The Sun.” The humor in both seems
forced and trivial. However Brooke Shields squeezed in the
after “Seinfeld” slot should make big Neilson numbers.

It isn’t as if I really have time to waste adding new sitcoms to
my list of things to do instead of Russian homework, but this
season does offer some great reason to put off that memorization

a few more hours.

The best advice, be thankful we don’t get WB or UPN as part
of our cable package and just tune in for the reassuring
laughter of Thursday night television, besides new ER the

26th of this month what more can a girl ask for ?.

4 s an. un;-,-..

DAN ODENWALD
M y View

The g-word is off limits.

At least that’s the official agreement of Senior
Hollis Leddy and her other friends in the Class of
1997. Graduation — life’s passage out of the secure

I and comfortable dorm room into the proverbial “real

world.” It’s coming all too fast. (My dad has already
made hotel reservations for my entourage). And like
most seniors, it scares the hell out of me.

Whether you’ve grown four inches, put on 20
Natty Lite pounds, or grown that ever-so-chic goat-

‘tee, Washington and Lee seniors are certainly not

those wide-eyed freshmen of September 1993. It’s
time to start planning for the future. So, step by step,
we’re making our way out of th Palms and into
reality. And we’re lookin ” A 
direction.

Take Opening Conv_
in the gym. About 20_
blazers and sundresses
start of the academic ye
the event was held in t
skyrocketed to what felt

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
    

Through the fluttering of programs 0
hand-held fans, seniors listened to the W9

liberal arts education. Tha

reference on their resume. In
about as functional as wallpape ure, it makes
everything seem pretty, but it won’t pay the electric
bill.
Okay, so I wanted practical advice — something I
cojald actually use. So, I trotted down to the Northen
Auditorium on Tuesday and attended the first of
Greeting us upon our

Career Development and Placement Office. In the
span of 45 minutes, Director Beverly Lorig gave us
more useful information than I have accumulated in
the entirety of my first three years of college —

"including Sexpert Suzy Landolphi’s condom

demonstrations.

We learned everything we needed to know about
SLAC, GREs, recommendation forms, interviewing,
resumes... yadda, yadda, yadda. It’s enough to make

‘ you crawl under a rock and wait out the storm.

Perhaps Senior Class President Sasha Hartman
was right on the ball when she exclaimed, “I need a

senioreyes on

eality 101

Rob
Scnieder in
"Men
Behaving
Badly" and
Michael J.
Fox in "Spin
City" shine
against the
other new
contenders.

.1». = .-,a .-_, ._ ..-.:rny..«.g,< anal‘:

 

-.-~ )

Valium.” No kidding. How about a dozen... (Oh, by
the way, Sasha, can we pay for those out of the
penalty tax on our senior dues?)

Despondent and disillusioned, I’ve been
wandering around the Hill this past week in a daze.
Lost and angst-ridden, I was searching for answers.
And then I found my kindred spirit.

Picture a glcgious and sunny day. The rocking
tunes of the Grateful Dead pour out of the speakers
in front of the Co-op. The annual poster sale has
drawn an unusual crowd of stragglers, late to their
one o’clocks. The poster guys look like they just
stepped off the set of “Trainspotting.” Everything’s
the way it should be.

Yet something is out of place. Yes, there she is.
Perched behind a giant poster of a scantily-clad
U ma Thurman is the voter registration lady. Her
chalk-white ha’ t sits firmly upon her head,

: ber breeze. Her plain
f any 70-something
h the wild colors of

  
 
 
 
     
     
   
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
  

She has this 10
The chick is shell-sh
for this when she V
Club meeting. Ye
of students pass b
cost of Beavis
Heckerling, whef
next Alicia Silv
terminally, 

Honey, W ‘
future with
posters.

We are as speechless, confused, and downright
frightened. Nevertheless, we follow your example.
We do not turn away from what approaches. We do
not run from the bleach-blonde dude with the nose
ring and neck tattoo.

Indeed, we fully realize that the future is here.
Tomorrow has turned into today. It’s time to hang
up the bong and get in line. Take charge of our
destiny. Carpe diem...

Wait a minute! Stop! What the hell am I
thinking? I only have nine more months of childhood
left. I don’t want to leave school. I don’t want to
grow up. I don’t want to have to go to bed early on
Wednesday nights.

The future can wait. For now, I think I’ll throw
on my flip—ﬂops, hang out at the Co-op, and figure
out a way to eat my frozen yogurt without being
attacked by those swarms of killer bees. Hey, it
worked for Thoreau!

 

mplete bewilderment.
et she never bargained
d at the Ladies Rotary
‘ there silently as scores
ble to inquire about the
tthead posters. Amy
u? If you’re looking for the
ve got her. She is adorably,
clueless.

low you feel. We look at the
e awe as you do the Magic Eye

 

2:: -.-1.;-..-,.«-.-.y.~

If you hauen’t seen

this film

You doni

knoui

ALEXCHRISTENSEN
Phi Movns CRITIC

At the beginning of the summer, I
listed Jack in my review of Mission:

Impossible, as one of the summer films
I was really looking forward to. What

a disappointment, then, when I saw

the finished product. The beginning is

cool, with neat-o effects and plenty of

interesting business going on, but as

soon as Robin Williams comes into the.

film as Jack instead of the cute little

baby, it all falls down.

It seems irresistible, of course.

Stick Williams in the role of the little

kid who lives in a man’s body and just

stand back. And it is a wonderful idea.

In fact, it’s so wonderful that they've

already done it six times. First, they

called it Mark and Mindy, and then

they called it Hook, and then they

called it The Fisher King, and then

they called it Toys, then they called it
Mrs. Doubtﬁre, and then they called it
J umanji. And they were all pretty good.

So Jack is money in the bank, right?

Right! As far as box office re-

ceipts. But instead of saying anything

new or significant, or perhaps being

just light and entertaining and touch-
ing, director Francis Ford Coppola,

who admits he only directed the film
for the CAISI-1!, decided to make it a

___bi,g,,f_‘art j oke. Literally and metaphori-
. I.g;ally,...... . .

The ﬁlm is full of little Robin
Williams Moments , and some are
vaguely amusing, interrupted by short
bursts of earnest, concerned, idealistic
pap, which serves to try to dupe the
audience into believing something is
happening. Unfortunately, taken as a
whole, there’s just no “there” there.

The story: poor old Jack ages at
four times the normal rate. This is not
a real disease, which is made obvious
by the fact that the effects it has on
Jack’s life have not even a nodding
acquaintance with the circumstances
of real life. Jack is a bright, inquisitive
kid, and his tutor, played by Bill Cosby,
who can’t even get in a good movie
even if he waits for one directed by
Francis Coppola, recommends to his
parents, Diane Lane andBrian Kerwin,
that he be introduced to regular school
with other kids. Apparently in addi-
tion to keeping him out of school, his
parents have also kept him locked in
the attic or confined on a leash in the
backyard, because the neighborhood
kids all think he’s some kind of mon-
ster, even though he’s lived on their
street for ten years.

School is tough at first but ulti-
mately rewarding for J ack. The kids,
getting no explanation for why he’s six
feet tall and really old-looking, natu-
rally think, “He must have the coo-
ties.” They tease him or avoid him,
until one smart kid, Louie Durante,
played by Adam Zolotin with much
skill, figures out that he might be an
asset on the basketball court, and be-
friends him. Everyone else falls imme-
diately into line, cherishingJack’sjoie

Jack

* 1/2 of 4 stars; can a movie
about farting be expected to
bring a tear?

The pitch: “It’1l be like The
Elephant Man meets Big!”

de vivre and ability to buy porn. They
go to a treehouse and fart in cans. Oh
sweet Lord, the hilarity.

Jack collapses with a heart
problem brought on by his disorder,
and his mother panics and takes him
out of school (?). But then when Jack
gets all depressed and grows a beard
and all the kids ride by on their skate-
boards and yell “Can Jack come out
and play?” over and over again, his
mom decides that to avoid all that
unpleasantness, she’ll let him go back
to school. You might be thinking, this
is a plot? Well, no, not in the technical
sense of the word, but everyone in the
film seems to think it is, so maybe
they’re right.

There are several weird threads
which interrupt this action, ultimately
leading nowhere. Louie’s mom, played

. .by..Fran. Drescher, hits on Jack when
he pretends to be the principal, and
this leads Jack to a bar later where he
gets in a fight and gets arrested. Also,
Jack gets a crush on his teacher (Jen-
nifer Lopez, absolutely magnificent)
and asks her to the school dance, prob-
ably the only sorta honest scene in the
film. Some of these subplots are surely
viable, but Jack can’t decide which
direction it wants to take. It wants to
depict the life of a kid growing up with
a disease that makes him an outsider,
in a humorous, warm-hearted way,
but it just doesn’t know how.

Williams’s performance is a
muddled mishmash of everything he’s
ever been in, but with farting. You
want to laugh when he’s onscreen, and
the physical sensation which results
from not being able to is actually pain-
ful.

As an interesting sidenote, you
may be interested to know that during
the opening and closing credits, Cana-
dian “rocker” Bryan Adams can be
distinctly heard singing the improb-
able lines, ‘‘There’ll be times/You’ll be
dancing and s—t.” Four—letter words
long ago invaded PG films, but per-
haps we can draw the line at cheap
bubble-gum pop.

To recap, this film was directed
by Francis Ford Coppola, the same
Francis Ford Coppola who directed
the Godfather ﬁlms, Apocalypse Now,
The Outsiders, Peggy Sue Got Mar-
ried, Tucker: The Man and His Dream,
Bram Stoker’s Dracula, and other great
or passable films. If I didn’t tell you
now, you might not be able to figure it
out from the film.

Basement Band Parties :muc to rival WREL

Uncle Mingo
Friday @ Sigma Nu

Doxy's Kitchen
Friday @ Chi Psi

Nathan Sheppard Band
Friday @ Kappa Sigma
Saturday @ Kappa Alpha

SweetBox & The Lucious Root
Saturday @ Sigma Alpha Epsilon

The Breakfast Club
Saturday @ Sigma Phi Epsilon

I

   

 

 

 

 

. . . _ 5 o “
Generals in action this week. B ‘R   Last weews results:
FoorrnAu.- Sat. at Guilford. 1:30
Msoecn - Sat. vs. Lynchburg. 2:00: Wed. at Emory & Henry Foovruu. - L. 27-0. vs. Ursinus 7
Wsoocn - Sat. vs. Maryville. 4:30: Sun. vs. Greensboro. 1:00 Msoccn - W. 2- l. vs. Shenandoah: W. 2-1. vs. Catholic V
Vou.sinuu.i. - Fri-Sat at Maryville lnvttauonal W8oocE: - W. 3-2 (OT). at Va. Wesleyan: W. 6-0. vs. Hollins ‘
WATER Pow - Sat. at Navy Invitational, 1 1:45 am Vou.nnAu. - Won W&L lnvltauonal; W. 3-0. vs RMWC
CROSlCOUN1'lY- Sat. at Dickinson Open WA1-uPoi.o- L. 21-6. vs. Navy: L. 17-6. vs. Vtllanova
Gou - Fri-Sat in W&L Fall Golf Classic Cnoss Cour-ru - Men 10th. women 9th at Lebanon Valley Invitational
W'I‘:mas - Today \'s. Meredith. 3:30
PAGE 4 FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER PoLo, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY SEPTEMBER 20, 1996 4

Volleyball holds serve

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER
Pm SPORTS EDITOR

There has been no letdown
for the Washington and Lee vol-
leyball team. 1

 

as W&L shrugged off the pres-
sure of being defending ODAC
champions last weekend, cut-
ting up the competition to win
the sixth annual W&L Invita-
tional.

Martin was back in top form,
racking up twelve kills to tie
freshman Nancy Reinhart for
team top honors.

It was the nightcap Friday
that almost proved to be the
Generals’ undoing as they col-

for second W&L Invitational

same way it started Friday by
sweeping a match in three games.
This time Sewanee was the vic-
tim,falling15-10, 16-14 and 15-
3

’ The Generals started the final
match against Catholic in style,

Also contributing mightily to
the Generals’ cause were
Reinhart with her 23 kills and 23
di gs, junior setter Ali Beard with
86 assists and sophomore out-
side hitter Megan Snodgrasswith
17 kills and 33 digs.

C 0 m _ The Generals registered vic- _ _

ing Off 3 tories of 3-0 over Bethany and lided with a tough Johns cruising 15-7 and 15-11. Nowannedwitha4-Orecord,
, e C 0 ,- d _ 3-2 over Johns Hopkins on Fri- Hopkins squad. Catholic then rallied for a 15- the Generals hit the road
smashing day night before breezing to the After W&L took the ﬁrst 13 win, but itonly postponed the Wednesday night to open their
29 victo- title Saturday afternoon on the game 15-12, inevitable as the conferenceseasonin Lynchburg
ties last coattails ofa 3-0 shellacking of Hopkins came Generals fin- at Randolph-Macon Woman s
S e a S 0 h Sewanee and a 3-1 thumping of roaring back. ished off the College. _

and their Catholic. They posted match and the RMWC wished W&L had
first ever With the four wins, the Gen- wins of 15-13 tournamentwith stayed home as the Generals
O D A C erals have now defended their and 15-11 to a 15-6 victory. breezed in three straight, 15-11,
titte it home turf successfully in the move within C0-Captain ~ 15~7,15_'7-

W 0 ,1, 1 d last 14 matches. one game of Virginia Yoerg Martin led the way for the
Seem diff], W&L kicked off the tourna- breaking the was the star Sat- Generals on Wednesday,amass-

cult for the Generals to set their

ment with a relatively easy three-

Generals’

 

urday for the

ing 11 kills, while Reinhart

- - - _ e of Bethan , win- homecourtmas- Generals, head- added 7 kills. Beard racked up
figllllltasrlhl ttthes ﬁﬁaiohésgagf §;f1:;eb::vtvli:e Scores of 15-y10, 15- tery. ingthe team with 16 assists, and Yoerg pitched in
Cﬁewlyraurassi g 8 and 15-6. But the Gen- 11 and 12 as- with three solo blocks and two

But it has heeh so far so good Junior co-captain Hilary erals weren’t S.1StSa _FeSPeC' 35515tS- . .
about to get Hilary Martin _ tively,inthetwo The Generals will take their
chased out of matches. 5-0 mark into the Maryville In-

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

their own tour-

nament. They stood their
ground for a 15-13 squeaker to
force a deciding fifth game.
With momentum now on their
side, the Generals finally put
away Johns Hopkins, 15-6, to
prevail in the match.

Reinhart continued her big
Friday night, leading the team
with 11 kills against Hopkins.

W&L started Saturday the

The senior
middle blocker was named to the
all-tournament team after com-
piling an impressive 40 kills and
22 blocks during the tournament.

Junior outside hitter Holly
Thomsen joined Yoerg on the
all-tourney team with her 26
blocks and 35 digs.

Martin, as usual, proved to be
a force, collecting 31 kills and 35
digs in the four games.

vitational this weekend but face
a daunting challenge there in the
form of Savannah, which is
ranked fifth in the South Re-
gion.

The Savannah match Satur-
day will be W&L’s fourth of
five matches in the tournament.
The Generals are also scheduled
to play Emory & Henry and
Maryville today and Rhodes and

Photo courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Eastern Mennonite tomorrow. Virginia Yoerg (right) keyed W&L last weekend.

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

W&L soccer squads kick competition

By Soon‘ BOOKWALTER Men’s Soccer Women’s Soccer
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

The women’s soccer team has
enjoyed similar success, taking its
first two contests in extremely differ-
ent fashions.

The Generals opened their season
with a nailbiting 3-2 victory over
Virginia Wesleyan last Saturday be-
fore returning home to maul Hollins,
6-0, on Wednesday.

W&L figured to be in for a tough
battle Saturday in Norfolk and Vir-
ginia Wesleyan didn’t disappoint.
Wesleyan led 2-1 with only about
three minutes remaining in regulans ’
tion, but sophomore Erica Reineke came to the rescue for
W&L as she netted a goal to force overtime.

The first overtime came and went with the teams still
deadlocked at two goals apiece. The score remained the
same throughout most of the second overtime until Mich-
elle Bauman took matters into her own hands.

With only thirty seconds remaining in the second over-
time, the senior tri-captain kicked home the dramatic
game-winner, sending the Generals home weary, but 3-2
victors nevertheless. ,

Sophomore Nicole Johnson scored the other W&L goal ‘
in the Virginia Wesleyan contest and also assisted on
another score. I

Senior Beth Mozena and freshman Stephanie McKnight
teamed up to frustrate Virginia Wesleyan, warding off 16
of 18 shots during the contest.

The Generals weren’t in the mood for another tight
contest Wednesday as they stormed out onto the Liberty h
Hall Fields and obliterated Hollins, 6-0. ‘ l

Sophomore Karin Treese had an incredible day for the
Generals. She tied a school record with nine points as she '
scored four times and assisted on another goal, giving the ‘

The men jumped out to a 2-0 start thanks to a pair
of 2-1 wins last week on the Liberty Hall Fields. The
Generals edged Shenandoah, 2-1, on Thursday the
12th, in a fight-marred contest. W&L then knocked
off Catholic by an identical count last Saturday
afternoon.

Freshman Jamie Parker basked in the limelight
for the Generals against Shenandoah as
he scored both W&L goals. Parker
snapped a 1-1 tie with under four min-
utes remaining as he kicked home the
eventual game-winning goal.

Soon after, the emotion from more
than 88 minutes of hard-fought play
came to a boil as a fight erupted follow- .
ing a W&L foul.

Tempers ﬂared between the teams,
leading to an ugly melee in which a
W&L fan joined the brawl. Officials
were finally able to intervene and the
game finished up with the Generals
prevailing by the 2-1 count.

Things were less tense but still just
as exciting two days later when W&L
locked up with Catholic on the Liberty
Hall Fields.

Sophomore Sam Chase took his turn
as the one-man show as he tallied both
Generals goals. Both scores came in
the second halfas W&L held offCatho-
lie for its second straight 2-1 win.

Chase leads the Generals with 5
points after the two games,
complimenting his two goals with one
assist.

The W&L soccer squads have tasted nothing but
victory thus far this year.

After four combined games this year, the men’s and
women’s teams have triumphed in each one, many in
very dramatic fashion.

    

The Generals have also been rock-
solid in the net. Senior Anthony Generals plenty of ammunition against the overmatched
Mazzarelli and sophomore Garry Hill Hollins squad. A

have combined for seven saves in nine
chances.

The men will remain at home for the
third straight game when they host
Lynchburg tomorrow. The game will
also feature a 50th season celebration
for W&L men’s soccer.

Reineke and Bauman notched the other two goals in the .
Generals’ conquest, which raised both W&L’s overall and
league mark to 2-0.

The women, now ranked ninth in the South Region, will
be preparing for a busy weekend. The Generals host 3
Maryville tomorrow following the men’s game and then
face off against Greensboro Sunday afternoon.

A

 

Photo courtesy of W&L Sports lnforrnation
Michelle Bauman scored the game-winner Saturday.

Ursinus trounces Generals, 27-0

     
      

   

8

Bowl. On the ‘sani éri;‘i

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
Pm Sroms EDITOR

The Generals football team
dropped their home opener to

 

the third quarter.

W&L’soffensive unit stalled
last Saturday, posting only 127
yards of total offense, including
32 yards rushing on 22 carries.

Cornerback junior John
Benazzi was the Generals’ pri-
mary offensive weapon. He

\

opened the game well, returning
the opening kickoff for 46 yards
to the Ursinus 44 yard line. He
returned three other kickoffs for
42 yards while also contributing
six tackles and breaking up one

the third quarter.”

Coach Miriello believes that
the defense failed to generate
the “big plays” the team needed
to post a win.

There were however some
impressive performances on the
defensive side. Senior line-

backer McGuire Boyd had a
team-high 14 tackles, a pass
breakup and one tackle for loss.
Senior tackle Peyton Williams
had 12 tackles, two tackles for
loss and a fumble recovery.

ﬁrst start, making 12 tackles,
with four solo stops and a touch-
down—saving tackle in the third
quarter.

The Generals will get another
chance to break into the “W”
column when they open ODAC

play at Guilford College in '

Greensboro, North Carolina to-
morrow.

Miriello believes this first
road game will be critical. But
the Generals will have to face
several challenges, not the least

3 from contention, d_6Spit6.th¢ Ursinus College last week, 27_ Pass_ T h e of which will be the absence of
0. On the te a m ’ s tailback Seth McKinley and
“Disappointed, but deter- other side sla fe t ide s Floyd Young, who are both out
mined to move forward,” is how of the ball, a so id due to i"J‘”Y-
head coach Frank Miriello de- the de- Maintaining well Satur- The defense willhavetocon—
scribed the team’s mindset fol- fense also an intensity fOl' g a y . tend withbthe qliiilcknefssl of the
lowin turnedina trong Quakers, utwi oeul aso
the loss, g less than four quarters safety jun- be able to take advafitage olfthe
T h 6 solid pct--  be a ngces- ior Lee young Guilford offensive line.
Generals formance_ Miller had As for the W&L offense, the
0 h 1 y The Gen- SitY- the only Generals need to move the ball
trailed by e r a | s ,Ch’-is Watson sack of the more than they did against
7 at the playedgwo game for Ursinus.
half,’ but and a hatf the Gener- Despite strugglinglastweek,
the Bears quarters of als. Healso the inexperienced offensiveline
connected solid, agressive defense. contributed seven tackles, in- has been improving in practice
for three But, according to free safety cluding a team-high ﬁve solo this week and will hopefully be
t o u c h — senior Chris Watson, “...the de- stops. able to keep quarterback Brooks
downs in fense didn’t get the job done in Watson made the most of his Fischer out of trouble.

Watson said that, “Maintain-
ing an intensity for four quarters
will be a necessity.

“We need to pressure the ball
on defense and sustain some
scoring drives. lf we all play
like we can, we will win the
game.”

    

1 . .W&Lplacedniritliove ”
all
fway-in 23rd. place’ Both

squads will run. this week-
end at Dickinson.

   

at Lebanon Valley witli;
Carson F lowers leading the 1

 
  

 

