 

 

.~.’ -7

C . 5»
Despite their loss to an

experienced Hopkins’
team, Generals’ football
displayed a Wide array

cessful season.

PAGE 3

SPORTS

 Washin ton and Lee Univers

VOLUME 9 , NO. /0

talent, previewing a suc-

of

W

 

Local music 
hosts the first Night Owl
Music band party.

0112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Payne Raynal

PAGE 4

Beta’s charter

‘V

.suspended

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
AND JULIEANN ULIN
TNEWS EDITOR/STAEE WRITER
In 1996, they lost a senior. In
1997, a freshman. This fall, Beta
Theta Pi almost lost its charter.
This summer, Beta’s National
‘(Fraternity suspended the Washing-
ton and Lee’s chapter's charter at the
Beta National Convention until it
institutes an effective risk—manage-
Vment program.

L Beta has gone through both uni-
versity and IFC probationary pun-
ishments, but had never been repri-
manded by its national fraternity.

‘I

“Due to the events ofthe past two
years, namely the alcohol-related
deaths of two of our brothers and
two rowdy Christmas weekends,
Nationals felt that we needed a bet-
ter risk management strategy,” Beta
President Tom Fallace said. “Con-
sidering all that’s happened, I can
see where Nationals is coming
from.”

W&L President John Elrod
called the suspension“appropriate.”

“I hope that Beta can clean up its
act and set an example for the en-
tire fraternity system in learning to
manage its alcohol effectively,”

  

4

Washington and Lee ’s Alpha Rho Chapter of Beta Theta Pi on Jefferson
Street. JOE B.4RA1<A7/RING-Ti/M P1-II '

Elrod said.

Prior to the involvement of
Beta’s national fraternity, the W&L
chapter was placed on social pro-
bation by the university last winter
term after its Christmas weekend
parties got out of control.

Social probation forbids parties
within the house as well as in the
surrounding country areas that are
sponsored by the fraternity. As well
as being placed on social probation,
Beta was warned by the administra-
tion as well as its faculty advisors,
Elrod said.

However, Nationals felt that
W&L wasn’t doing enough to cor-
rect Beta’s problems, Fallace said.

“But, the new BYOB policy will
correct most of our problems,”
Fallace said.

The Interfratemity Counoil insti-
tuted a “Bring Your Own Booze”
policy at the end of last year, pre-
venting fraternities from using
house funds to purchase alcohol.
Alcohol at parties must be pur-
chased by those attending or indi-
vidual brothers. Some fraternities
use a tag bar, while others started a
ticket system.

Beta’s national fraternity gave
the W&L chapter suggestions to
combine with the BYOB policy. “I
think that this will be cleared up in
the next three weeks,” Fallace said.

 SEE BETA PAGE 2

‘Female cadet hits
‘upperclassman,
‘receives suspension Water polo dead at age of 20

i BY HEATHER MCDONALD

he public eye turns yet again to Virginia Military

Institute this week. VMI’s Executive Committee

suspended a freshman female cadet last Monday
'{ for striking Cadet John Deem during ritualized hazing

on the “Rat Line.”
Sources say that Angelica Garza, I8

insulting them in some manner.

Rumors have circulated since and an anony-
mous source confirms that Garza stated that she

( had premenstrual syndrome before
ran away.

She has been suspended for two semesters and will
be allowed to return next year, although she will have to

re—enter the rat line.

"' Sources also say that Garza’s penalty entails that she
attend therapy and receive doctor approval that she is

mentally able to return to VMI.
The punishment was determined by

Committee, which is solely run by the Corps ofCadets.
Like Washington and Lee’s EC, there is no influence

from the administration.

“A cadet hitting another cadet has happened in the
past,” VMI Director of Public Relations Col. Michael
*' Strickler said. “However, it is not an everyday occur-

rence.”

A similar incident occurred a few years ago when a
sophomore struck a rat. He was also suspended for two

semesters.

“We can’t have cadets going around hitting each
other,” Assistant to the Superintendent Lt. David Zirkle
said. “I am happy with the decision of the Executive
Committee. It was handled in the appropriate manner.”

Both Strikler and Zirkle claim that incident has

nothing to do with gender.

“The system is working as it should,
“Gender has nothing to do with it,” Strickler said.
Many cadets feel that the recent arrival of women

, hit and pushed
Deem after he hazed her according to traditional
_ practices sanctioned by VMI. Hazing “Rats” usually
‘ entails ordering them to perfonn physical acts while

STAFF WRITER

she hit him and

the Executive

 A female
cadet marches
with the VMI
pep band on the
Parade Ground
Saturday, Sept.
13. The first
coed class at
VMI initially
consisted of 430
men and 30
women. Three
women and 32
men have left
the school
voluntarily,
prior to Garza ’s
suspension.
CHRJsr11;
WlI,I,IAMS/
RING-'/‘I/M PHI

and the heavy media coverage has brought undo
attention to the incident.

“Unfortunately, it has been downgraded to a test
case,” Zirkle said.

A VMI junior speaking under the condition of
anonymity said that if the Committee did not suspend
Garza, the cadets were going to institute a “step of ,”

meaning the cadets would lock themselves in the

barracks and wear civilian clothes.
Garza was not the reason for the possible “step-off”

but it was the “straw that broke the camel’s back.”

said.

However, a “step-off’ is something that cadets talk
about doing, but would never go through with, the cadet

“The Corps morale is really low right now,” he
said. “No one seems to care about the upperclassmen

now, just the Rats and how the press sees us.”

” Strickler said.

The first coed class at VMI initially consisted of 430
men and 30 women. Three women and 32 men left the
school voluntarily prior to Garza’s suspension.

 
    
 

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSETY

‘t"’|f.}i‘-‘V/‘.f\l ‘/»\ wan-as

SEP15‘l997

 

The new BYOB Pa/icy, while
a step in the right direction,
must be accompanied by a
change in attitude, Swensen

argues. PAGE 7

Bulk Rate
U.S. Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington, Va.

Monday
SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

—_ ’

TYINGTHEKNOT...

In one of the last weddings of the busy summer season at Lee Chapel, U.S. Coast Guard Lt. David Sprzmt, ’85,
and his bride were married Saturday, Sept. 13. Many alumni return from all over the country to get hitched
in the chapel. H()LLlSTER HoVr.Y/PHo'1‘o EDITOR

BY ]AsON ZACHER
——-e———— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The 15 members of the varsity wa-
ter polo team returned to campus this
fall missing only one thing - their team.

After an evaluation of the aquatics
program at the school, Athletic Direc-
tor Mike Walsh made the decision in
July to offer water polo at the club
level instead of the varsity level.

“This was a very difficult decision
to make because of the number of out-
standing athletes who have represented
Washington and Lee in water polo over
the last 20 years,” Walsh said.

“However, our department is com-
mitted to Division III competition and
there simply are not enough varsity
Division III schools to compete
against in water polo.”

The move follows the departure of
Aquatics Director Page Remillard,
who took the job of Athletic Director
at Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga.

“I think it’s outrageous,” said senior
water polo captain Ben Yemini. “They
have been considering the fate of wa-
ter polo for a while, and when Remillard
left, it gave them a window.”

While the water polo alumni sup-
port the university, the decision came
as shock to them.

“This decision has ripped the heart
out of W&L for me,” said water polo
alumni Stu Sheldon. “Competing
against those ‘better’ Division I pro-
grams pay me dividends every day of
my life.”

According to several alumni, one
of the reasons expressed by Walsh for
dropping the team was the inability
to win a national title. This point is

held in contention by many of the
players.

Despite the decision to drop to
club, the team is still eligible to play
at the Division III championship.

“The fact that Washington & Lee
may never hope to hang a Division I
National Championship banner at our
pool, does not mean that the challenge
is not worth undertaking,” said alumni
Michael Foley in a letter to Walsh.
“Sometimes a slingshot and a rock can
produce surprising results. That’s
what Washington and Lee University
Athletics used to be about.”

“Since when are Washington and
Lee athletics all about winning?"
asked Yemini. “My roommate plays
basketball and said they’ve only won
five games in two years. but nobody
is considering dropping them.”

Water polo was the 13th varsity
sport at W&L when it was created in
1977. Over the 20 years of its exist-
ence, the team has compiled a record
of 347-203-1. Since 1994. W&L has
played primarily against Division I
and II opponents and has gone I4-37
against varsity competition. Last sea-
son, they compiled a 1-12 record.

According to Yemini. the team
simply had a bad season last year. but
this year, a Division III championship
is possible. Despite the poor records
ofthe past few years against the Divi-
sion I competition, he contends that
the experience of playing at that level
is more valuable than winning na-
tional titles.

“How many athletes can say they

Cl 511: POLO l).'\(ll‘: 2

A freshman from Southern Vir-
ginia College died early Wednes-
day at Stonewall Jackson Hospital
after collapsing during a pickup bas-
ketball game Tuesday night. April
Jean Thomas celebrated her 19th
birthday only hours before her death.

Her family had a history of heart
disease, the Roanoke Times re-
ported. Thomas’ father died last

SVC student dies
suddenly, heart
disease suspected

year of congenital heart disease
and her brother died of heart dis-
ease 16 years ago.

This is the second college fresh-
man to died of suspected heart dis-
ease this year. Virginia Military
Institute Cadet Nathan John
Kowrach, 19, died in his sleep May
ll, of a heart attack caused by
coronary blockage.

 

  

PAGE 2

I1€WS

eries of thefts sweeps

campus, one arrest made

BY JULIE BONACROSKY
-—-———--—-—-—-—- STAFF EDITOR

Locking car doors and dorm rooms
never used to part of Washington and
Lee campus life. But with the recent
onslaught ofthefts amounting to ap-
proximately $2,500 in cash and be-
longings, it is now a necessity.

A 19-year-old local white male
has been arrested for the theft of

$448 in cash from the Woods -

Creek Apartments. The alleged
thief was able to enter the apart-
ments without an University Card
because he was a friend of resi-
dents of Woods Creek. All but $8
was returned. V

But the culprit of other campus and
off campus thefts remains at large.
$400 was stolen from Baker, Davis
and Gaines dormitories. No arrests
have been made in those cases, but
W&L Assistant Director of Security
Steve Tomlinson believes that the
crimes are related.

“I believe all the thefts are con-
nected and the man who was arrested
is just not owning up to the other
thefts,” Tomlinson said.

There have also been several
thefts from parking lots through-
out Lexington. On Sept. 5, sopho-
more Kevin Stevenson parked his
car in the Gaines Hall parking lot
around 1 p.m.

At approximately 5 p.m. the next
day, he returned to find numerous
CD’s and his portable CD player miss-
ing. '

Correction

The Phi apologizes for
mistaking Dr. Samuel
Kozak’s date of death.
The correct date is July
2, not July 21.,

’ Students will actually
receive $20 annually, not
per semester as
mentioned in “Electronic
Renovation of Student
Computing.”

LEXINGTON

in Parmly 307.

LEE CHAPEL

On September 6, a musical key-
board was stolen from a car in the
parking lot between Gaines Hall and
St. Patrick’s Church. The driver’s side
door was unlocked.

Three cars parked in the 306
McLaughlin Street apartments were
broken into Tuesday night. An open-
top Jeep belonging to the landlord,
Harry Swisher, was stolen in addition
to three car break-ins.

$50 was taken from senior Melody
Andreola’s 1997 Ford Taurus.

“I’m from a big city and I should
have known to lock my doors,”
Andreola said. “But I think what
scares me more than someone break-
ing into my car is that the car was
parked a few yards from my bedroom
window.”

A car stereo was stolen from an-
other car in that apartment complex,
and nothing was taken from the third.

The thefts are also being inves-
tigated in conjunction with the
Lexington Police Department, but
whether the same person is re-
sponsible for all the thefts is un-
known.

“We hope to bring this to rest real
soon,” Lexington Police Chief Beard
said.

In the meanwhile, the Lexing-
ton PD has stepped up its patrols
in order to prevent further thefts.

“Keep your doors locked at all
times, be aware of your surroundings
and don’t invite people into your
house if you don’t know them,” Beard
said.

BETA

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

I “We’re still nice people.”

Last May, freshman Beta Jack
Bowden died from a fall from his
second floor Gilliam Dormitory
window. Bowden was intoxicated
well beyond the legal limits and was
only 19-years—old.

Senior Beta David “D.T.” Th-
ompson died in a drunken driving
accident at the age of 22 in January
of 1996.

Beta will meet with their Na-
tionals on the 20th to institute the
new risk management policy.
Fallace hopes the matter will be

 

SPEAKER ON RAIN FOREST TO COME TO

There will be a Biology seminaron “Tropical Forest Recovery in
Abandoned Pasture Land in Costa Rica” on Tuesday, Sept. 16, at 4 p.m.
The talk will be delivered by Professor Karen Holl
from the University of California at Santa Cruz. The lecture is open to
the public and refreshments will be served.

AUTHOR OF SUMMER READING TO SPEAK AT

Freeman Dyson, award-winning scientist and author of Infinite in

All Directions, the summer reading book for the Class of 2001, will
speak at W&L Wednesday, Sept. 24, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. His
talk is on “The Sun, the Genome and the Internet” and will focus on the
use of new technologies to-advance social justice.

Dyson is professor of physics at the Institute for Advanced Study at
Princeton University. He is a native of England and attended Winches-
ter College and the University of Cambridge. Hejoined the faculty at
Cornell in 1951 and two years later began his long and distinguished
career at Princeton. The lecture is open to the public and will also be
broadcast live on WLUR—FM (91.5 MHz).

W&L CONCERT GUILD OPENS SEASON

W&L’s Concert Guild will open the 1997-98 season on Tuesday,
Sept. 23., with a performance by 17-year-old violinist Hilary Hahn at 8
p.m. in the Lenfest Center. Hahn will be accompanied by pianist Natalie
Zhu.

At age 17, Hahn has already achieved recognition as a major musi-
cal talent. She entered Philadelphia’s prestigious Curtis Institute of Music
where she gave her first public performance at the age of 6. She gave
her first full public recital at the age of 10, and her widely publicized
major-orchestra debut came with the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra
in December 1991. She has recently performed as a soloist with the
New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Pittsburgh Sym-

I phony and the Cleveland Orchestra.

In June 1996, Hahn signed an exclusive recording contract with Sony
Classical. Her first CD, featuring the unaccompanied Sonatas and partitas
'ofJ.S. Bach, will be released this fall.

Tickets are required for W&L’s Concert Guild Series. For more
information and reservations, call the Lenfest Box Office, 463-8000.

Lexington man arrested

SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Outing Club
to raffle bike

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

NEWS EDITOR

Having some trouble getting around Lexington? If so,
a $5 donation to the Outing Club can solve all your trans-
portation needs.

The Outing Club will be selling rafﬂe tickets for a Trek
mountain bike donated by the Lexington Bike Shop and
G&S Publishing. The tickets are $5 and are on sale Mon-
day and Tuesday outside the Co-op. The drawing will be
at the Outing Club meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m.

G&S Publishing was started by senior Galean
Brown and sophomore Stephanie Lefﬂer over the
summer. Brown and Leffler put together a Greek
Directory and financed the printing costs with the
financial help of most of fraternities and sororities
and advertisements. The Lexington Bike Shop paid
for their ad with the bike. In turn, Brown and Leffler
donated the bike to the Outing Club.

“We hope to raise a few hundred dollars for the Outing
Club,” Brown said.

The money will benefit the Outing Club and the vari-
ety of day and overnight hikes the club sponsors.

ets. “You’d have a pretty good chance of winning since
not people have bought them so far,” Outing Club Coor-
dinator Nick Tatar said. I

The Greek Directory will have an address and
telephone listing for all Greek members and will be
distributed within the next few weeks free of charge
to all fraternities, sororities and independent orga-
nizations.

 PoLo
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

have competed at the very highest levels of their sport?”
Water polo athletes can. We will never get the chance
to beat teams like the Naval Academy again.”

Thefts occured on at least ﬁve locations on and around campus. Known locales are starred.

cleared up by Homecoming and
claims their Rush will not be af-
fected.

The IFC sent a letter to Beta’s
national fraternity reinforcing
Beta’s full co—operation with both
the university and the IFC in imple-
menting the necessary changes.

Beta has received a wake-up call
by the tragedies of losing two house
members, IFC president Jason
Callen said.

“They, more than anyone else on
this campus, realize what can hap-
pen when things get out of control
in a reckless environment,” Callen
said. “I believe that there has been
a 180 degree turnaround in that
house. I have complete confidence

 

Thompson

After two deaths of W&L brothers, Beta Theta Pi Nationals
took action by suspending Alpha Rho’s charter.

Thompson dead
at age 22

David “D.T.” Thompson never got
to finish his senior year. He died in a
drunken driving accident less than a
month into 1996. Thompson’s mother
said to her son in the the 1996 Calyx,
“I have always known you were spe-
cial and now I know that there are hun-
dreds of others who know how spe-
cial you have been. The world needs
more people like you.”

Bowden dead
at age 19

Jack Bowden’s freshman year
was cut short after a tragic fall from
his dormitory window. Bowden was
19 years old and intoxicated at the
time. He was planning on majoring
in Spanish and was going to try out
for the tennis team in the fall;
Bowden’s parents will return to
W&L this fall to plant a tree on cam-
pus in his memory.

    

Bowden

in Beta’s efforts to reform.”

W&L NAMES NEW DIRECTOR FOR INTERNATIONAL
EDUCATION

William G. Klingelhofer has been named director for international edu-
cation at W&L. The new administrative position was creative at W&L this
year to meet the increasing demands and importance of international pro-
grams at the university. Klingelhofer will work with students, faculty and
visiting scholars to raise the awareness of all facets of international educa-
tion. He will also head all study abroad programs and will oversee the
university’s efforts to support international students in and out of the class-
room. He will also assist the faculty in procuring grants, arranging intema—
tional exchanges and recruiting international scholars as visiting profes-
sors.

Klingelhofer received his B.A. in 1977 from the University of Washington
where he majored in the history of religion. He holds an M.A. and Ph.D. from
Harvard University with specialization in architectural history and Asian art,
with additional special interests in ancient, medieval and Islamic art. He is
also the author of The Harvard College Guide to International Experience.

‘CANTERBURY TALES’ TRAVELS TO LEXINGTON

Derek Pearsall, Gurney Professor of English at Harvard University, will
deliver the annual Shannon-Clark lecture at W&L Tuesday, Sept. 25, at 8
p.m. in the Leybum Library’s Northern Auditorium. Pearsall’s topic is
“Chaucer and Englishness.” A reception will follow in the Boatright Room;
the public is invited to both.

A native of England, Pearsall was educated at the University of Bir-
mingham. His teaching career has led him from King’s College, to the
University of London, to the University of York, where he was co-director
of the Center of Medieval Studies, to Harvard University.

He is the author or editor of nine books on medieval English literature,
including “The Life ofGeoffrey Chaucer: A Critical Biography and editons
of “Piers Plowman”, “The Canterbury Tales”, and numerous other Middle
English texts. He also reviews dramatic productions for the “Village Voice.”

The Shannon-Clark Lectures in English, established by a gift from an
anonymous W&L alumnus, honor the memories of Edgar Finley Shannon,
chairman ofthe English department from 1914 until his death in 193 8, and
Harriet Mabel Fishbum Clark, a grandmother ofthe donor and a woman
vitally interested in liberal education.

SAB TO HOLD INTERVIEWS NEXT WEEK

Applications for positions on the Student Activites Board are due by
Wednesday, Sept. 17, at 5 pm. to Carol Calkins’s in the University Center.
Interviews will be held next Wednesday from 7- I 0 p.m. and next Thursday
from 4-6 p.m.

CALYX TO HAVE FIRST MEETING OF THE YEAR

The Calyx, W&L’s yearbook, will have its first meeting ofthe year Tues-
day, Sept. I8 at 7:30 p.m. Anyone intersted is encouraged to attend the
meeting in room 206 in the University Center.

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂlii
new
and

improved . . .

with

wings.

(Please see pages I and 8 for related stories.)

t

The Outing Club urges all students to buy rafﬂe tick- .

Y

)2

 

<L.._.__....._-.. .__a-.

l
.1

 

SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

RESULTS

Football (0-1)

Sat.: W&L
J.Hopkins

28
34

Volleyball (3-1)
Second place ﬁnish at
W&L Invitational

Friday:

W - Mary Baldwin

15-12, 15-3, 15-0

W - NC Wesleyan
15-4,12-15,15-7, 8-15,16-14

Sat.:

W - Catholic
15-2,15-13,15-9

L - Johns Hopkins
15-5,13-15,15-3, 15-3

Women’s Soccer

(1 -0)
sat; Kenyon 1
W&L 5
Sun.: RMWC 2
W&L 4

Men’s Soccer (1-0)

Thurs: at Shenandoah,
cancelled

Sat.: W&L 1
Catholic 0

Women’s X-Country

Sat.: 5th of 24 at
Lebanon Valley

Men’s X-Country

sat; 7th of 11 at

UVA Invitational

1 AHEAD

Football

Sat.: Home v. Guilford
1:30 -- Wilson Field

Volleyball
Tues.: at Emory & Henry

Thurs.: Home V. Sweet Briar

6:30 -- Warner Center

Women’s Soccer
Thurs.: at Hollins

Sat.: Home v.

Va. Wesleyan
2:00 -- Liberty Hall Fields

Men’s Soccer

» Wed.: Home v. C. Newport

4:00 -- Liberty Hall Fields

Sat.: at. Va. Wesleyan

Men's and Women's
X-Country
Sat.: W&L Invitational 9

Women: 11:00
Men: 11:30

Water Polo

This weekend: at the Naval
Academy for EWPA ,
tournament

Rugby

October 2: Season opens at
VMI on the Parade Grounds

Sports

PAGE 5

Football has strong showing in 34-28 loss

BY CHRIS PUGSIEY

STAFFWRITBR

What was the number one attrac-
tion in Baltimore, Maryland Saturday
afternoon? No, it wasn’t the series
between the Orioles and the Yankees
or the fact that Maryland was playing
at Florida State in football. It was the
Washington and Lee Generals’ sea-
son opener at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity. Unfortunately, the Generals
came up short losing 34-28 in a game
almost completely dominated by the
Blue Jays.

The ﬁrst half of action saw the Blue
Jays gain over one hundred more to-
tal yards than the Generals but W&L
only trailed 7-3. The Generals’ of-
fense exploded in the second quarter.
After a Blue Jay turnover, sophomore
quarterback Christian Batcheller

No. 2 and that ain’t bad. . .

Volleyball falls
to Hopkins

BY KEHH HARRINGTON

found J .T. Malatesta on a ﬁfteen-yard
fade pattern into the right comer of
the end zone for the Generals ﬁrst
touchdown of the season and
Malatesta’s first of his career.

Senior running back Seth
McKinley took advantage of another
Blue Jay turnover and ran the ball into
the end zone from 15 yards out to ex-
tend the Generals’ lead to 17-7. Af-
ter mounting a long drive, the Blue
Jays closed the gap to 17-14. But,
after a driving down to the Blue Jays
23 yard line the Generals’ Matt
Holbrook kicked a forty yard ﬁeld
goal with time running out showing
the Generals have an effective two
minute drill.

The second half was not as pleas-
ant as the first for the Generals. After
a Blue Jay touchdown Batcheller
threw a 65 yard touchdown pass and

Going into last weekend’s seventh annual W&L Invi-
tational, head volleyball coach Terri Dadio knew that the
team that would present the biggest challenge to her Gen-
erals winning a third straight tournament title would be

Johns Hopkins. She was right.

Hopkins defeated the Generals in Saturday’s champi-
onship game 15-5, 13-15, 15-3, 15-3, snapping their streak
of consecutive home wins, which had spanned three sea-

sons, at 23 games.

In the first game, the Generals were able tojump to a
quick 5-0 lead behind several powerful kills from sopho-
more Nancy Reinhart and a strong defense up front.
Hopkins was able to slowly close the gap, however, and
ultimately rolled off 15 straight unanswered points cour-
tesy of several defensive miscues by the Generals come
back from an early 8-2 deﬁcit behind service points from
senior Ali Beard, Reinhart, and freshman Mary Beth
Brookby. After trading points and sideouts, a kill by se-
nior Holly Thomsen and a subsequent out-of-bounds spike
by Hopkins gave the Generals the 15-13 victory.

The team was unable to capitalize on their success in
the second game, however. Game three was back and forth
early, with Hopkins able to grab a 6-2 lead. Hopkins then
exploded, pushing their lead to 13-3 before Holly
Thomsen’s spike ended the streak. Hopkins ultimately
coasted to a 15-3 win -- a score that they duplicated in
game ﬁve, in which the Generals were able to gain only
brief momentum to win the match and the tournament.

Despite the disappointing ﬁnish, the Generals played
well throughout the Invitational. In their ﬁrst match, they
demonstrated their ability to function as a cohesive unit
while routing Mary Baldwin 15-12, 15-3, 15-0 behind a
dominating offense lead by Nancy Reinhart. Against a
tough North Carolina-Wesleyan squad, the Generals pulled
out a 15-4, 12-15, 15-7, 8-15, 16-14 marathon victory, and
in the third game they posted an easy victory over Catho-

lic University, 15-2, 15-13, 15-9.

Tuesday, the Generals, who were ranked #1 in the pre-
season ODAC volleyball poll, travel to Emory & Henry
Tuesday; they return home on Thursday to face Sweet Briar

at 6:30 p.m. in the Warner Center.

STAFFWRHER

unior Nicole Johnson keeps the ball in Randolph-
Macon territory Sunday in the Generals 4-1 victory.
]‘IOL1.lSTER H0 V15)’/PHOTO EDITOR

extended the lead to 28-21. But af-
ter that it was all uphill for the Gen-
erals. The Generals held onto a slim
28-27 lead in the fourth quarter, but
the Blue Jays used two key drives to
add thirteenmore points to the score
and ﬁnally defeat a scrappy Gener-
als team.

Batcheller, making his ﬁrst career
start, was 13-25 for 239 yards and
two touchdowns to lead the offense.
Holbrook was 2/2 on PATs and also
added two ﬁeld goals, while senior
comerback John Benazzi had an in-
terception to lead the defense.

However, this game says one
thing: the Generals may have lost but
they will be competitive for the rest
of the season. The Generals’ ﬁrst
home game will be this Saturday at
Wilson Field at 1 p.m. against
Guilford College.

 

 

#22 Catholic 35, Bridgewater 0
#25 Methodist 26, Guilford 19

League Standings

ODAC record Overall
Team w L w L
Emory & Henry 0 0 1 0
Randolph-Macon 0 0 1 0
Guilford 0 0 0 1
W&L 0 0 0 1
Bridgewater 0 0 0 2
Hampden-Sydney 0 0 0 2

Johns Hopkins 34, Washington & Lee 28

#18 Emory & Henry 38, #4 Washington & Jefferson 10
Randolph Macon 37, Franklin & Marshall 25
Gettysburg 33, Hampden-Sydney 7

Women’s soccer posts two wins

Junior Karin Treese boots two hat tricks in
games against Randolph-Macon and Kenyon

BY FRANCES GROBERG

 

AFFWRITER

It seems that a long summer has not
affected junior Karin Treese in the
least. Instead, she has started this sea-
son on the same note that she ended in
1996.

“I can’t say enough about Treese.
She’s awesome,” exclaimed senior co-
captain Lorraine Taurassi.

Treese led the women’s soccer team
this weekend to its ﬁrst two victories
of the season over Kenyon College and
Randolph-Macon Women’s College.
Her two hat tricks, on Saturday against
Kenyon, and again on Sunday against
RMWC, helped the Generals start their
season with a 2-0 record.

On Sunday, Randolph-Macon be-
came the second team to fall to the
Generals by a score of four to two. The
end of the ﬁrst half saw the Generals
with a 3-1 margin, despite a sluggish
performance.

“We were tired in the first half,” said
Taurassi, “but we sat down at halftime
and discussed what we needed to do.
We may not have scored as many goals
in the second half, but we were the
dominant team.”

The halftime discussion worked. In
the second half, the Generals played
much more aggressively and the ball
almost never entered W&L’s side of
the ﬁeld. Offensively, the Generals

kept intense pressure on the RMWC
goal, forcing Wildcats’ goalie Kirsten
Bakken to make several terriﬁc saves
to keep the Generals from making the
gap even wider. The offensive pres-
sure included four W&L shots which
struck the crossbar of the goal. Sopho-
more Deidre Coyle scored the other
goal for the Generals.

Kenyon College was the Generals’
first conquest of the weekend. Though
Kenyon Shannon Moroney scored just
53 seconds into Saturday’s game to
take a 1-0 lead over W&L, the Gen-
erals commanded the game from that
point on.

It took senior Erica Reineke only
ﬁve minutes to answer with a goal of
her own off a cross from junior
Caroline Keen. From that point on,
the team rolled to an easy ﬁve to one
victory over Kenyon. Keen and se-
nior Erica Reineke each added a goal
to the effort, and sophomore goalie
Stephanie McKnight was solid with
ﬁve saves.

“Saturday was incredible,” said
Taurassi. “We played so well to-
gether.”

This Thursday, the team will travel
to Hollins College for its ﬁrst away
game of the season, and will be back
on campus Saturday, September 20
for a game against Virginia Wesleyan
on the Liberty Hall Fields at 2:00 p.m.

The
Big

Fan

Scott
Bookwalter
'98

 

Welcome back to the land of the
big fan for the fourth year. I’m start-
ing to feel as old as Larry Holmes.
For those of you who are not famil-
iar with this space, I am the Big Fan,
and each week I will blow some wind
about the national sports scene as well
as an occasional commentary about
W&L sports.

I don’t want to start the year on a

sad note, but it is hard not to notice the
death of Richie Ashbum last Tuesday
morning. Ashbum, one of the best
contact hitters in baseball history,
made the Hall of Fame in 1995 and
developed into a Philadelphia icon. For
his ﬁrst ﬁfty years of service to the
Phillies as a player and announcer, I
can remember spending many summer
nights listening to Ashbum and Harry

Kalas announce Phillies games on
TV. Of course, sometimes that
was the only attraction to watch-
ing the games. Ashbum was al-
ways fun to listen to, whether he
was reminiscing about his playing
days, botching Mark
Grudzielanek’s name, or bemoan-
ing umpires’ strike zones. There

CDSee FAN page 6

Generals’ sports teams ready

Football

The loss of several key players in-
cluding record-breaking quarterback
Brooks Fischer may mean the end of
Generals football to some observers
but don’t tell that to the men in blue.
Coach Frank Miriello begins another
season of ODAC competition with a
young squad powered by several key
returnees.

Fischer’s spot will be filled by
sophomore phenom Christian
Batcheller who possesses not only a
powerful throwing arm but the abil-
ity to read coverage and escape pres-
sure in the pocket. Joining Batcheller
will be senior tailback Seth McKinley
who after suffering injuries each of
the last two seasons looks to put up
big numbers in his ﬁnal campaign.
Junior Chas Chastain leads the Gen-
erals receiving corps and will be
joined by J.T. Malatesta and tight end
David Ritchey.

Backing up this solid offensive
lineup will be a defense that has quite
a reputation to maintain. After the
losses of Robert Hull two years ago
and players like McGuire Boyd and
Peyton Williams, the Generals need
to step up and keep Bacheler’s offen-
sive unit on the ﬁeld. Leading the
defensive returnees will be defensive
lineman Omar Moneim and Matt
Luka who both had solid seasons last
year. The Generals are especially

    

strong at the defensive back position
with Ryan Fletemyer and John
Benazzi who was a first team All-
ODAC selection last year. The Gen-
erals will need this defensive unit to
perform well this season.

Volleyball

“Our primary goal is to get back to
the ODAC tournament championship
 —- ~— -» game and win it,”
head volleyball
 coach Terri Dadio
said.

When you are a
program that has
 been as successful as
the Generals the past
couple of years, such a goal is not as
lofty as it might first seem. Since
Dadio took over in 1993, the volley-
ball team has posted a record of 92-
30, including a 29-6 record in 1995
that was complemented by the team’s
ﬁrst and so far only ODAC champi-
onship. Last year saw a 29-4 record,
an undefeated 19-0 regular season in
the ODAC and a second place ﬁnish
in the conference tournament behind
Bridgewater. As well, the team has
won 20 straight games at Warner
Gymnasium, a streak that spans those
two years.

Coming into this season,_which
began this weekend in the W&L In-

homse V

vitational tournament, the Generals
are the preseason #1 team in the
ODAC according to the conference’s
coaches. The primary reason for this
early honor, according to coach
Dadio, is the team’s experience.
Seven players return from last year,
ﬁve of whom started and all of whom
will see significant playing time.
Only one starter, lst team all-ODAC
middle hitter Virginia Yoerg, was
lost. The team is led by three seniors,
Alison Beard, setter, Hilary Martin,
middle blocker, and Holly Thomsen,
outside hitter, all of whom coach
Dadio called strong leaders. Dadio
also singled out sophomore Nancy
Reinhart as a strong outside hitter and
junior Megan Snodgrass as a valu-
able hitter in both the inside and out-
side positions.

Despite this multitude of experi-
enced returners, however, Dadio said
that several of the six freshmen on
the team must step in right away. “We
will definitely need the freshmen to
come in right away on the front line
for blocking,” she said. “The three I
see making the most immediate im-
pact are Pam Salisbury, an athletic
setter with good hands, Mary Beth
Brookby, a good passer and defen-
sive specialist, and Melissa Williams,
who will have to help out on the front
line right away.

“We deﬁnitely have the talent and
the chemistry to have a very strong

 

team. We are going to take this sea-
son one match at a time and see what
happens,” said Dadio. If their success
in the W&L Invitational is any indi-
cation, one would be hard-pressed not
to believe her.

Women’s Soccer

The women’s soccer team, an im-
posing combination of seasoned vet-
erans and ex-
tremely talented
rookies, is looking
forward to repeat-
ing many of their
1996 accomplish-
merits.

Last year, the
team set a school record for wins with

Treese

for fall‘ seasons

a second place regular season ﬁnish
in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence. Coach Jan Hathom, embarking
on her 11th season as the varsity
coach, named virtually all of the up-
per-classmen as top returnees, includ-
ing the newly-elected captains, seniors
Claire Bowers and Lorraine Taurassi
and junior Karin Treese.

Treese, a forward, was a ﬁrst-team
All-ODAC and a second-team All-
South region selection in 1996. Bow-
ers was selected ﬁrst-team All-ODAC
and ﬁrst-team All-State in 1996. Other
top players include senior forward
Erica Reineke, the number 2 all-time
scorer at W&L, and returning sopho-
more goalkeeper Stephanie McKnight.

On defense for the Generals will be

(DSee PREVIEW page 6

4613-8691

WANTED!

A student manager for The
199708 mens basketball Team.

IF INTERESTED CONTACT
N10 CASSARAJ ASSISTAN
BASKETBALL COACH’ AT:

   

 

 

PAGE 4

&life

SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Live from Lenfest...
It ’5 Friday night!

BY SYBTL PRINCE
» STAFF WRITER
its and ties may be the way
to land a job ‘on Wall
Street, but Ali Davis got her’s
in a cattle call.

September marks Davis’ one-
year anniversary with The Second
City National Touring Company, the
springboard for the careers of major-
comedians such as Alan Alda

“M.A.S.H.,” Julia Louis-Dreyfuss .

“Seinfeld,” Martin Short “Three
Amigos,” Jim Belushi “Blues Broth-
ers” and a slew of “Saturday Night
Live” stars including Chris Farley and
Mike Myers.

Davis’ job application, like those
of her predecessors, required her par-
ticipation in one of Second City’s
annual “cattle calls,” a grueling ex-
perience where eight strangers are
herded into a room where they have
15 minutes to impress the scruti-
nizing eyes ofjudges with their
improvisational skills. Those
succeed, like Davis, are
roped into an understudy,
position until they can be
branded as an addition to
the tour.

“Saturday Night Live”
uses the Chicago-based orga-
nization as a major recruiting
pool. So, when The_Second
City comes to Washington and
Lee, Friday, September 25, the
Lenfest Center stage may host
some future SNL stars.

At 9 p.m., Davis and her co-
comedians Craig Cacklowsky,
Abby Schachner, Mike Lucas and
John Farley (Chris Farley’s little
brother, although he doesn’t like
to be known as such) will hurl the
audience into the throws oflaugh-
ter with comedic sketches in the
tradition of “Saturday Night
Live.” Without giving audience

members a chance to recover, the
troupe will pull them in to become a
part ofthe show. The audience will
shout out suggestions, and the six ac-
tors will perform their requests with

"Em.-. 0a1E.Ee‘¢_- I":-e:e5:tE Eemiiiée EE
.4‘ E. ;%!El&!E‘i6f.dll iEN*éEE,E’%€’.eEE setiére
em: R10 smimruei HEB in [Eire-.v
wereis: ‘lire §1'.-.¢?1(tEE€iE  .i§..§’.“"

(‘live Barn

. l/V/I(' .\~(."li‘ l(:."l~. lliltlcx

hilarious improvisations.

“Audience participation is a big
part of the show. Be lively,” Davis
encourages attendees. She says that
the troupe loves college audiences be-

  
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

cause “they are a more knowledge-
able crowd,” so the comedians can
perform sketches from a wider
range of topics.
If W&L students are as knowl-
edgeable as she thinks, they will
be in their seats and
ready to laugh early.
No one turns down
“free funny” and the
Lenfest Center will
ﬁll up quickly.

Friday’s! brings disco to Doremus

Bell bottoms, platform shoes, “Saturday Night Fe-
ver” - bring back any memories? Well, if not get caught
in a time warp when the Stayin’ Alive disco band shakes
its groove thang 9 p.m. next Friday in Doremus gym.

Stayin’ Alive is a group of 6 singers and dancers
who perform disco—funk music. Originally from At-
lanta, they travel the country setting their audiences

Ilw \\ ;p.hh.gn-n And Irv Hlm son’

I I..- \\ ..~Mu:v.m and In Him .~.-n

im Iuding In-an ~Indnvl~ and r... nil}. rarli

-.nviI;uli4nI| im hiding hat. mid.-m~ ivlvll !.« nIv_\. mm

us». n awe... pinnrr an-rim which lucluda

an n ....»a.... ..a......- arr-in vthnlv inchdn

uf<'rili(nlI3 au1ai.n«Ir.»r.1'g..nnd \n.|<-Ii an vn.

-rl; an-lninu-I funnier: and \mm- .m mu

>34‘ MI: r-Iuaptn and nulmlwsily

.... rum. nllllpﬂh and am-munilg

on ﬁre with an incurable disco fever.

The activity group Friday’s! once againigets the
credit for enriching Washington and Lee’s night life.
In looking for the next form of entertainment for
W&L they sought something different, fun and funky.
They choose something that would stand out from
the traditional bands that come to W&L parties.

BY GINGER PHILLIPS
T STAFF '\X/RITET2

Washington and Lee students
know Wayne of Night Owl Music
as the local music guru. But this
weekend, Wayne, a former W&L
student, will kick off his shoes and
party with his customers.

On Saturday, Wayne will host
local bands at the first Night Owl
Music Band Partv. According to
Wayne, bands scheduled to per-
form include recording artists

:Magraw Gap (whose bluegrass
lsounds are familiar to the W&L
“social scene); singer/songwriter
Leslie Tucker; the man and wife
duo Jones and Leva; the “swing/
jazz/bluegrass” and Greenhouse
Defect; the String Dusters, with
their “ﬁat-pickin’, ragtime” beat ;

SHOW|NGisupp0rt for local musicians, Wayne Raynal will sponsor a
band party in the parking lot next to Night Owl Music on S. Jefferson St.
this Saturday. PH070 BY CHRISTINA JI/LIAN

Wayne gets down

 

“neo-punk rock” Concordia Discors;
and W&L’s own hard rock bands Hop-
per Genie and Underpants Cowboy.

The first band will crank it up at
11:30 a.m. in the parking lot beside
Domino’s Pizza on S. Jefferson
Street. “Let’s pray for good
weather,” Wayne said, “because if
it rains, we’re going to have to
move it inside and that might be
a little uncomfortable.”

If you want to check out one of
the musicians before theshow, or
you find that you just can’t get
enough ofthem after the party, you
can visit Wayne’ at Night Owl Mu-
sic, 25 S. Jefferson Street.

“You can buy new and used al-
bums, CDs and tapes or order what
you want for at least a dollar less than
the standard price,” says Wayne.

Volunteer programs offer students the chance to learn from the young
and the old, While making important contributions to individuals’ lives

 

 

BY IEE ANNE APPLEGATE
——————?———— STAFF WRHER

The language of love is uni-
versal. Although students may
not understand the Czech lan-
guage in “Kolya,” the Film
So_ciety’s first fall ﬂick will speak
to the heart. ~

The l997.movie from the
Czech Republic won the Acad-
emy Award for Best Foreign
Film. The story is set in the era
of the “Velvet Revolution,” and
tells of an old musician who be-
comes the guardian of a small
Russianboy.

President of the Film Society
Marisa Frost (‘98) voted to run
the light-hearted “Kolya” (in
Czech with subtitles) because she
likes to open the students up to
things that aren’t in English.

Troubador brings free ﬂicks to Lex

The society will also show
“Looking for Richard” (Sept. 26 and
27) and “Everyone Says I Love You”
(Oct. 10 and ll).

“Looking for Richard” is a
documentary about the making of
actor/director Al Pacino’s “Richard
III.” Shakespeare fans may be in-
terested in the ﬁlm’s revealing foot-
age of Shakespeare’s “Richard III,”
as well as background on the history
and staging ofthe play.

“Everyone Says I Love You”
is Woody Allen’s 26th ﬁlm, but his
first musical. The ﬁlm won acclaim
for the juxtaposition of nostalgic
songs and its contemporary setting
in New York, Venice. Allen
avoided casting professional sing-
ers, so with the exception of Drew
Barrymore, the actors (including
Allen, Tim Roth, Goldie Hawn and

 

Alan Alda) croon the tunes
themselves.

“Everyone knows Woody
Allen!” said Frost. But not every-
one might know another more lo-
cal attraction: senior Molly
Norton’s brother. Edward
Norton, who plays the love in-
terest of Barrymore’s character.

“If it weren’t for the movies
provided by the Film Society,”
Frost noted, “many students
would otherwise avoid foreign and
non-mainstream ﬁlms. Everyone
should try and take advantage of
the screenings because they’re
free movies and the best movies."

Screenings begin at 7:30 in
the Troubadour Cinema on the
corner of Henry and Main. Ad-
mission is free, but contributions
are appreciated.

Be a mentor

BY MATT GOOCH
STAFF Wanna

Hope had decided by the ﬁﬁh grade
that she would drop out of school in the
10th grade just as her mother did.
Hope’s guidance counselor, some-
what troubled by the lack ofdirec-
tion in the young girl’s life, re-
ferred Hope to Lexington’s Big Brother/Big Sister
Outreach Program, part of Washington and Lee’s
University Federation.

Upon meeting the troubled youth, junior Elizabeth
Houston learned that Hope’s favorite pastime was bowling.
“Really?” Houston asked, “Do you bowl a lot?” The young
girl shook her head, “No, I’ve only been twice.”

That aftemoon, Houston took Hope bowling, later de-
scribing the seemingly mundane experience as “incredible”
and “moving.”

“I never would have thought that I could have brought
so much happiness into a little girl’s life,” Houston says.

olu

, “Anything we did, whether it was bowling or the movies or

lunch on the playground, was for Hope the most exciting
thing in her life.”

The Big Brother/ Big Sister program is designed to pro-
vide positive role models for elementary- middle-or high-
school students in Lexington whose parents are either not in
the home or too busy for their children. By sharing quality
time with these area youths, the big brothers and sisters hope
to make a difference and observe positive changes in the
behavior and rationale of the youngsters.

The local program is autonomous from the national
Big Brother/ Sister Program, which necessitates local ini-
tiative here at W&L. Students interested in participating,
should watch for upcoming signs and announcements.
President Matt Craig said, the program is in desperate
need of volunteers, especially boys, that will provide di-
rection and role models for the area’s young people.

  

pOr‘!l’lIlI%I i

BY ADAM ROOT

STAFF WRFTER

Of the several service organiza-
tions in the Lexington area, the
Rockbridge Area Hospice is certainly

S one of the finest. The essential goal
ofthe Hospice is to provide home care
to terminally ill patients. Moreover,

the Hospice fulﬁlls both the spiritual and physical needs
of patients and their families.

Dr. Mimi Elrod, a great admirer of volunteer work,
feels the Hospice is “an absolutely wonderful service. The
patients want to have their loved ones near them and
want to be in familar surroundings.”

There are many ways Washington and Lee students
can become involved with the Hospice. For example, a
student may take on the role of a patient care volunteer
and help care for terminally ill patients who wish to stay
at home. A student could also become a special—events
volunteer. Special events volunteers give out informa-
tion about Hospice speakers and petition for grants. There
are also ofﬁce volunteers, many of whom are W&L stu-
dents, who ﬁle papers and help with computer work.

Because the Hospice is currently holding its 1997 fall
volunteer training program, it’s the ideal time for students to
get involved. Margaret Watkins, who has served at the Hos-
pice for three years, both recruits and supervises the volun-
teers. Watkins explains that her goal for the Hospice is “to
enable them (the patients) to live life fully." She has also
formulated her own personal ideas about the beneﬁts of
volunteerism: “When you help people, you gain back a tre-
mendous amount of knowledge and insight into what people
can cope with under such adversity.“

A future Hospice activity that W&L students can par-
ticipate in is “Hussle for Hospice,” a ﬁve-mile hike around
town. Watkins hopes W&L fraternities and sororities will
sponsor the event to be held on Oct. 19.

 

Open auditions for “Uncle Vanya

The Theatre Department will be holding open auditions for its ﬁrst play
ofthe season, Chekhov’s bittersweet, comic drama “Uncle Vanya.”

Directed by Al Gordon, “Uncle Vanya” provides a moving encounter with
Chehkov’s characters who endure the hardships of provincial Russian life. spiri-
tual isolation and loneliness, but strive for happiness, fulﬁllment and laughter.

Auditions are this Thursday and Friday, 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. in the Johnson
Theatre. Parts are available for five men and four women. Scripts may
be borrowed from the Theatre Department secretary (463-8001).

77

Be a support

 

 

19

AI

    

SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

   

Do g and Robin’s

Ed lweiss
Ge man

Re taurant
(Ex 213 - 0171.81)

 

:1 Quality, 4
1 Presentation, 3
Range: $8-18

ant

when is a German Restaurant
good? When Doug can take
his German mother there and she en-
joys the food. Edelweiss, located
north of Lexington off I-81, offers
tasty German fare at reasonable
prices. The rustic log-cabin atmo-
sphere and authentic music create a
unique experience for those who are
adventurous.
We first visited Edelweiss in
mid-August, stopping in during the
early evening as we drove home from

a friend’s wedding (the source of last week’s dubious
picture). We entered to find a small, intimate atmo-
sphere with seating for 40 patrons.

The hostess quickly seated us at a cozy corner table
and presented an enticing menu. Doug chose the
Sauerbraten, an old family favorite consisting of thin
roast beef in a special sour German sauce, while Robin
selected Rindsrouladen, beef tenderloins wrapped in ba-
con with carrots. Both dishes came with side orders of
green beans, cabbage, red cabbage and spatzel (short,
fat German noodles).

While we waited for our main dishes, we enjoyed
fresh rolls with butter. The main course arrived quickly;
although its appearance lacked the polish found in res-
taurants such as the Sheridan Livery Inn, the food was
tasty and very filling. We lingered over the meal and
after eating so much were unable to partake of dessert.

Since our visit, Doug has returned twice with other
company. He has sampled two dishes, the
Rindsrouladen (which Robin recommended) and the
Huhnerbrust, chicken breasts in a wine sauce. He also
tried the Black Forest Cake and decided it was an ex-
cellent resolution to a delightful meal when combined
with coffee. Doug’s only remaining obstacle is to get
Dirk, his Dutch boss, to accompany him on his next
visit.

Edelweiss, like the Pink Cadillac Diner, requires a
short drive from Lexington, but the unique and deli-
cious food at both these restaurants makes the trip worth-
while.

Edelweiss offers an excellent option for an unusual
date or a night out of town with friends. Go to Staunton
to catch a movie and stop by Edelweiss for some Ger-
man food on the way.

 

W&life

 

Senior ventures far
afield in Venezuela

 

Q.
3
3
01
no
‘I
N
no
0
-1
01

BY STEPHE\J Pasce
‘——‘:‘j STAFF WRITER

Last winter, Kate Giese, a senior Poli-
tics major, stepped away from the Wash-
ington and Lee lifestyle. After two and a
half years of the same types of classes,
Giese realized the importance of learning
off campus.

Giese participated in a 15-week pro-
gram in Venezuela through the School
of International Training. The program
was divided into three parts. For the
first six weeks, Giese lived with a local
family while studying the Spanish lan-
guage at the University of the Andes in
Meridia. At first, Giese found that her
communication skills were lacking.

“They spoke so fast. Everything
was so overwhelming.”

The experience in Venezuela
opened Giese’s eyes to the differences
and qualities of cultures.

“I found out they have a different
concept of privacy than we do here,”
said Giese. “When I first got there, the
entire family, the father, and all the
brothers, went into my room to unpack
my suitcases.”

 Kate Giese left behind the class-
rooms of Washington and Lee to
learn more about the Spanish
language, ecology and herself

Although the language and culture
barriers were difficult to overcome at
first, the sensitivity of her host family
and the community as a whole encour-
aged Giese while she improved her
communication skills.

The peaceful demeanor of the
people, called tranquillo, greatly struck
Giese as unusual and refreshing. Giese
recalls “riding up in the mountains in old,
beat-up vans that would occasionally
break down. When this happens, every-
one calmly gets out of the van and calmly
waits for the next van.”

Giese’s studies were not conﬁned to
Venezuelan language and culture. Dur-
ing the second part of the program, Giese
examined various ecosystems: the central
plains, the Caribbean coast, the mountain
rainforest and the Andean cloud forest.
For six weeks Giese and the other students
traveled to the different ecosystems to ob-
serve and study.

Giese met students from all over the
world. ‘

“There weren’t many students from
the U.S. Many came from Western Eu-
rope. Russia and Venezuela. Americans
tend to go to Europe; whereas people from

other parts of the world tend to go down
there.”

Although their native cultures and lan-
guages were varied, they shared common
interests, spirit, love for learning and open-
mindedness.

The final three weeks of the program
constituted the Independent Studies
Project. Students were encouraged to
expand their knowledge of a speciﬁc
topic in the region of their choice. Giese
chose to study ﬁshing regulations and
declining ﬁsh populations in the Orinoco
RiverBasin in Llanos. Aﬁerthey ﬁnished,
the students met again in Meridia to share
their projects with each other.

When the 15 weeks were over, Giese
had grown accustomed to her life in Ven-

PAGE 5

ezuela. “I didn't want to leave,” Giese

claims. “I deﬁnitely want to go back.” I

Many of her new ﬁiends stayed and
found internships and job opportunities.
Giese returned to Lexington for the sum-
mer and was a Robert E. Lee Research
Scholar. Recently, she was named one
of 70 national recipients of a Morris K.
Udall Scholarship for environmental
policy.

Giese calls her experience in Ven-
ezuela, “One of the best things I’ve
ever done. I would recommend study
abroad to anyone.”

W&L offers many opportunities to
study abroad. Students should con-
tact Tiffany Cummings in the Ofﬁce
of International Education.

Environmental studies in a less exotic locale

Giese’s program dealt with a topic that is fairly new to the W&L cur-
riculum: Environmental Studies. When Giese entered W&L in 1994, she
was “surprised at the lack of any program for environmental studies.”

In 1995, then Dean of Academic Affairs John Elrod catalyzed the effort to ﬁll
this gap. “He brought people togetherto brainstorm, and then established a commit-
tee,” explained Associate Dean Kenneth Ruscio, now chairman of the Environ-
mental Studies Committee. “The committee came up with a proposal. We’ve been
in the process of implementing that piece by piece over the years.”

The Committee’s intends to establish an environmental studies program
incorporating guest lecturers, special events and an expanded curriculum.

“One of the things the program is trying to do is provide informal

links between study abroad, Outing Club and speakers,” says Ruscio. “We
see this as an interdisciplinary ﬁeld, but still one which requires students
to have a disciplinary base to work from.”

Giese envies students who have the opportunity to participate in the
new program. “It’s great,” she says. “Attitudes around campus have
changed greatly towards environmental issues.”

Other students apparently share Giese’s enthusiasm. “We thought there would
be a high demand, but it’s been beyond our expectations,” admits Ruscio.

The program is open to all majors; its goal is to involve a wide array
of disciplines. Interested students can pick up a copy of the program’s
newsletter in the Williams School, or talk to a committee member.

$§‘

 

Guaranteed Credit cards with Credit Limits

Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No credit, No job, No parent—singer, No security deposit!
no credit * bad credit * no income?

'.'ou Ban [Iuahfg To Heeeiue
Tum 0f the most Illrdelg Used
Credit Cards In The IJJor'|d Today!

Want VISA 69- MasterCard Credit Cards?

  

 

ORDER FORM

YES!

CRA, PC) BOX




I want Credit Cards immediately.

GUARANTEED APPRCDVAL
1 6662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

Tired of Being Turned Down?

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Nomenmmmnmmmnmmmnmmmmummm~mmmm~mmm~mm-:
I
I
I
I
I
I

GUARANTEI-:D$lO,OOO IN CREDIT

 

    

PAGE» 6

 

CL PREVIEWS

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3
junior Nicole Johnson, who was
named second—team All-ODAC and
third team A1l—South in 1996. Hathom
is also impressed with the team’s eight
freshmen, who are very capable of
playing on the varsity level. The fresh-
men have played so well that Hathom
feels they have raised the playing level
ofthe entire team.

“This team is the most motivated
I've had in a long time,” Hathom said.
‘‘We’ 11 see what we are made ofin the
next couple of weeks.” '

The women’s soccer team, which
was picked third in the preseason
ODAC coaches poll, beat Kenyon Sat-
urday 1-0, and Randolph-Macon
Women's College 4-1 Sunday.

Men’s_ Soccer

With the returning core of last
year’s record setting 12-6 team and an
incoming wealth of freshmen talent,
W&L’s men's soccer team should be
vying for the ODAC championship for
the second year in a row.

This year’s team boasts three re-
turning All-ODAC performers, as well
eight other veterans from last year’s
squad which ﬁnished second in the
ODAC tournament. The defense, al-
ways a strong point for W&L soccer,
will be anchored again this year by
All-American sweeper Michael
Parker. With Senior Kingsly Chukwu
and sophomore Ben Thompson secur-

ing the backﬁeld, the defense should’

be solid.

The real story on this team, how-
ever, is the potent offensive threat. In
past years, the team has had trouble
putting the ball in the back of the net.
Not this year, says Coach Rolf
Piranian. “Last year we relied on two
players to do most of our scoring,”
stated Piranian.

“This year, we have four or ﬁve
guys and we expect to score from a

' lot of different places.”

The two guys Piranian was refer-
ring to are junior Sam Chase and
sophomore Jamie Parker. Last year,
Parker broke the school record for

goals and points set by Chase the pre— '

vious year. Chase is already sixth on
the all-time point list with 63.

«The most improved aspect of the
team is the midfield. Experienced
players Mike Germain,‘ Scott
Letourneau and Mike Kaczka should
provide stability to a midﬁeld infused
with new talent. ' ’

The shaky spot for the Generals
may prove to be the lack of experi-
ence at the goalie position. With start-

ing keeper E. J. Murphy sidelined with
an injury, freshman Jordan Ginsberg
will be starting in goal. Ginsberg
looked sharp in a preseason scrim-
mage last Saturday but has not yet
proven himself in league competition.

son. In fact, Head Coach Jim

Men’s Cross Country

Washington and Lee’s Men’s
Cross Country program, a virtual
mainstay at the university since 1915,
embarks on its 83rd year of competi-
tion this fall with many expectations
and few question marks. Head Coach
John Tucker believes that this year's
strong senior class (Jason Callen, Will
Olsen, Greg Ruthig, and Taylor
Shultz), coupled with last season's
disappointing 2nd place ﬁnish in the
conference should have the Generals
in the thick of things for athird ODAC
championship in the past four years
and a possible NCAA Division III
championship berth. The team quali-
ﬁed for the NCAAs in 1995 and won
consecutive ODAC championships in
1994 and 1995 before last season’s
setback. .

Senior Jason Callen has been All-
Region, All-State, and All-ODAC
each of his ﬁrst three years and was
the ODAC Runner of the Year in
1995. Senior Will Olson was All-State
and All-ODAC after ﬁnishing second
in the two races. Senior Taylor Shultz
has been All-state has been for the past
two years and was All-Region in
1995. Junior Darrick Alford is a key
returner and freshman Alex Taylor
should also be a nice addition to an
already talented squad. '

Women’s Cross Country

The traditionally strong Washing-
ton and Lee Women’s Cross Country
program kicks off a new season this
fall with high hopes of defending its
ODAC championship of last season.
In fact, Head Coach Jim Phemister’s
Generals have become somewhat of
a dynasty in ODAC competition, win-
ning four out of the last ﬁve champi-
onships. Hoping to pave the way for
this year's squad is senior Carson
Flowers, who was ODAC Runner of
the Year last season and also earned
All-State honors. Other top returnees
include juniors Lisa Brennan and
Natasha Dorofeeva. Brennan was All-
ODAC last year after running sixth at
the conference championship meet
and Dorofeeva has been All-State
each of her ﬁrst two seasons after ﬁn-
ishing second both times.

CD FA N

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3
was never a dull moment with Whitey
in the booth.

Ironically, the day ofhis death, the
Phillies were playing the Mets, the
team Ashbum ﬁnished his career with
in 1962 and the worst team in base-
ball history. And the Phillies won 1-
0 that night. Ashbum wore #1 with
the Phillies. We’ll miss you, Whitey.

I'll now devote the rest of this
week’s space to recapping the good,
the bad and the ugly events of the
summer of 1997:

The Good: *Who can forget Davis
Love III’s triumphant walk to the 18th
green at the PGA Championship with
the rainbow overhead? The rainbow
symbolized the end of a long drought
for Love, who was often labeled the
best player never to win a major
championship

*The Pittsburgh Pirates and Mil-
waukee Brewers, two small-market
baseball franchises who are constantly
rebuilding, have contended for the
ﬁrst place in their divisions through
out the summer.

The Bad: *While the Brewers hung
with the Indians in the AL central, the
large-market White Sox waved the
surrender flag and dismantled their
team, trading Wilson Alvarez and
Roberto Hernandez, even though they
were only 31/2 games out of the ﬁrst
at the time. Too bad they didn’t dump
Belle.

*Jerry Jones bragged all through
training camp about how he was re-
making the Cowboys’ image. It so
inspired Deion Sanders that he de-
cided to become a minister and

Sports

SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Michael Irvin decided he liked foot-
ball again. Too bad Jerry didn’t tell
Barry Switzer. Switzer, who usually
plays four cards short of a full deck,
tried to pass through an airport metal
detector with a hand gun. Like that
would have frightened anybody. The
Cowboys ended camp by trashing
their dorms and urinating on the car-
pet. Yup, same ol’ Boys.

*Old favorite Allen Iverson, per-
haps thinking he was on the I-81
dragstrip between Lexington and
Roanoke, was in a car that was
stopped for going 93 in a 65 mile an
hour zone east of Richmond. With
marijuana on the car ﬂoor, no less.

The Ugly: *The Mike Tyson-
Evander Holyﬁeld horror show. I’ll
spare the cliches.

*Mount Bryan Cox, which was
only dormant for about nine months,
erupted Labor Day night in Green
Bay. Cox, who rampaged his way to
THREE unsportsmanlike conduct
penalties, including two on the same
play, acted so foolishly that his own
wife wouldn't speak to him for sev-
eral days.

*Washington’s Mike Westbrook
turned into one of Compton's Most
Wanted after his bloody, apparently
unprovoked, attack on teammate
Stephen Davis. Coach Norv Turner
then had to remind Westbrook that he
was in Westminster, Maryland, not
South Central, LA. God help us all if
West brook and Davis ever step onto
the same offensive huddle this season.
It could ignite the ﬁrst bench—clear—
ing brawl in NFL history involving
only one team.

Killin’ Catholic
Sophomore Nancy Reinhart scores a kill against Catholic on Saturday
in the Washington & Lee Invitational Volleyball Tournament. W&L
went on to win the game 15-2, 15-13, 15-9.

Tuesday

Wednesday

This Weeks   Weather:

Thursday

 

 

 

High: 83°
Low: 63°

High: 84°
Low:

High: 84°

53° Low: 65°

Friday Saturday Sunday

     

High: 81°
Low: 61°

High: 82°
Low: 59°

High: 79°
Low: 55°

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

Name:

Subscribe to

ﬁlly: iliing-tum iﬁlti

Keep in touch with Washington and Lee
events with The R1'ng—tum Phi, Washington
and Lee's oldest campus newspaper.

Since 1897, the Phi has covered all aspects

of W&L campus life. Celebrate our 100th
anniversary with us!

A subscription to the Phi costs only $30 for a full year (25 issues). Get all
of the campus news, from the Freshmen's first day to the Seniors‘ last. It's easy
to do, just return the form below with your check for $30 to:

The Ring-tum Phi
Attn: Matthew Craig
University Center

Washington and Lee University

Lexington, VA 24450

rljjjjjjjjjjZiijjjjfjjjjjjijfifjﬁ

Yes! I would like to subscribe to The Ring—tum Phi

Address:

Return with a check for $30 to: Matthew Craig, Circulation Manager, The Ring—tum Phi
’ University Center, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

I
L:1111111111111111111111111111111

related ﬁelds?‘

E

SOUND

 

PRINCIPLES of

TIAA-CREF.
‘ K ; hen itcomes to planning a comfort-

able future, over 1.8 million of

America's best and brightest count on
TIAA-CREF. With $190 billion in assets,
were the world's largest retirement
company, the nation's leader in customer
satisfaction. and the overwhelming choice

of people in education, research and

The reason? For nearly 80 years,
TIAA-CREF has introduced intelligent
solutions to America's long-term planning
needs. \Ve pioneered portable beneﬁts.
\Ve invented the variable annuity and
helped popularize the very concept of
stock investing for retirement planning.

Today, TIAA-CREF's expertise offers

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

lirist-ti on it .\UI’\ t-_\- L(ll1<ill\ lL'ti Ill 199.3 l)_\' an IIhlL'p('lltiL‘I)( (7I'*:’.'|lII/..'lIIU1\ in \\ l|IL'l1 ‘lt>"u ol'ri-.~p<mtlt>ni.~ L'X[)l\'\\l‘Ii U\'\‘l'.lll .\dIl.\l&lL'lI(!l\ ixuli Tl.\.'\’CRl'il“.
Tl.\.\ i> one 01 mil\' .1 lmmlltil ul L0ll1|).Il\lt'> that turrv.-nll.\ hold the lllglwsl In.‘u’k.~ lrnin llw Imlinirs lmullng l11IiU}K‘|1(i('IIl I';IllI1':‘.|gL'Iklc>lUl’SlillllliI‘\.
\(!\l1\II 11\\‘L‘\llI\t‘lll.~. K ldIlll\~[).l_\'|I1‘:1 .|i)llll’\‘. and mt-mll lin.mti.i| \U’L’11‘:’Ill: .\.. (§L,P._.,-,0,-1,,-\_,\l. llcsr Co.: .\.\.\. |)ul'l 8' l‘lu-lps: ,\.i.n. .\\nrxl‘\'S lII\'(‘.\Il)[’.\
.\t~r\'itc. .\.\.\. .\l.uul.u4l .|nrl |’um’.\. Tl.\.\'.~ L’|l4|I'.|lllL‘L‘.\ .ln- |).u'i<t'tI l>\' Il_\ \i«|l1l\.\-lh|\'|l1.L’ .'tliilit\'. Tlu-so 1’.'iI1l1"\ ul Tl \ \ .1» m Il1\|ll'|1\\'(‘ u)inp'ui\'<ln not
applx to Q l{lil' L‘l{l'.l" \ i~ni|it.ut-.» .ut- (lI.\ll'|i)lllk‘Ki by Tl.\.\-CRICI’ ll\lIl\'IKiU.|l£ll1<i lmiitiitmiml S('l'\’lt'L‘.\'. lm. For umrc roiiiplt-re Ii\l}ii'iii.iIi<>i\. intlu<lnn-_-
»|,».r._ . . . '|}4‘7,-if“ ...\ ‘:1 . . ,. _, , _ - "
\ 1 u___t~ «ml ( \])L1I\t\. KJTI I MK -I. - 3.). L.\lLl\. um .x.i() I. lot .i pl0.\])lLlll.\. l(t.ul the pl0.\[\L*kl\l.\ turn-lull_\' lit-tun-_\'uii 1l\\'L‘.\l or .~L‘nrl lllOlH‘_\'.

RETIREMENT

INVESTING

OVER ONE MILLION
OF THE BEST
MINDS IN AMERICA
HAVE ALREADY
CHOSEN THE BEST
RETIREMENT SYSTEM.

an impressive range of ways to help you
create a comfortable and secure tomorrow.
From the guarantees of TIAA's top-rated
Traditional Annuity*”” to the additional
growth opportunities of our variable invest-
ment accounts, you'll find the flexibility and
diversity you need to help you meet your
long-term goals. And they're all backed by-
some of the most knowledgeable investment
managers in the industry.

To learn more about the world's pre-
mier retirement organization, speak to one
of our expert consultants at 1 800 842-2776
(8 a.m.-ll p.m. ET). Or better still, speak
to one ofyour colleagues. Find out why.
when it comes to planning for tomorrow,

great minds think alike.

V

'1

 

  

E rial

SEPI“. 15, 1997

PAGE. 7

ion

ha

d been carried off.

The incident has made me more aware of my
‘’ security on campus. For the most part, W&L seems
._ to be one of the safer campuses in the country. I feel
‘comfortable walking back to my apartment late at
- night, and until now, my only reason for locking my
i, doors would have been to keep drunken students
7. from mistakenly wandering into my room.
Despite the loss of my possessions, I still feel
‘ fairly secure on campus, thanks to both W&L Secu-
“ rity and the Honor System. I feel safe knowing that
:1 do not have to protect myself from my fellow
: students. I enjoy the sense of ease and community
 which accompanies the knowledge that my col-
f leagues are upright and honest.
However, my loss has taught me a few lessons.
First, I have come to realize that the Honor System
extends only to members of the W&L community. Sec-
ond, and more importantly, I have learned that I live in a
community, not a fortress. We are not impervious to

Protecting ourselves

The September 9 issue of The Ring-tum Phi
; warned that more than $700 in cash had been taken
from campus residences and parking lots during the
past week. Unfortunately», I did not read the warning
until Tuesday afternoon: over the weekend, I may
have been robbed.
It seems likely that I was. On Tuesday morning,
I discovered that the cash which I had brought with
me to school was missing from my room. Although
it is possible that I simply misplaced my money, it
. seems more likely that it was taken from me. When
I reported the possible theft to Washington and Lee
Security, 1 was told that someone had been caught
1 taking cash, but not property, from students’ rooms.
My case matched those of the criminal’s other vic-
tims. My money was probably among the cash which

. visits from less honest members of society.

 

For this reason, you may want to take steps to protect

yourself from theft.
9 First, lock the door to your dorm room or apartment.
, The convenience of an unlocked door is not worth the loss
of your possessions. Carrying your key with you is not a
burden and locking your door can’t hurt.
Second, do not prop open the doors to the dormi-
tories and on-campus apartments. The security locks
are there for good reason. Carry your card with you
and allow the doors to lock behind you when you
. leave. You should care enough to not endanger

yourself and others unnecessarily.

Last, if you see someone in the campus residences
ho does not look as though they belong there, do
&L Security a favor: give them a call. They can
etter protect us if they know who needs protection.
I would like to thank W&L Security for the friendli-
ness and understanding they have shown me. I hope that
hey will understand when I do my best to never

return to their office.
-by David Balsley, Opinion & Editorial Editor

6

 

Our attitudes, not just our rules, must change

“If [the BYOB policy] is enforced,
alcohol abuse at W&L will disappear. ” —
President John Elrod

If only it were that simple.

 

If alcohol abuse and the problems as-
sociated with it simply could be legislated
away, it would have been done a long time
ago. Unfortunately, problems like this
one cannot be handled merely with rules.

On the other hand, something must be
done. Washington and Lee has had two
alcohol-related deaths in the last two years,
which is both a terrible tragedy and com-
pletely unacceptable. While it is far too
early to tell, I thinkthe BYOB regulations

tions succeed only in causing individuals
to consider the liability they face if some-
thing happens to a person they have pro-

vided with alcohol, C‘

ofthe decline can be attributed to tougher
laws and more vigilantenforcement. More
importantly, a stigma has been attached

to drunken driving

then the new rules are
worth it.

Rules alone, how-
ever, are not the an-
swer. One famous ex-
ample is the failure of
Prohibition in the

If you’re so drunk that
you try to unlock the door
to someone else’s car,
don’t drive home.

through the tireless
campaigns of such
organizations as
Mothers Against
Drunk Driving.
Commercials that
,7 putahuman faceon

1920s and ’30s. Alco-

_ hol use and abuse continued throughout

the period. The Roaring Twenties
“roared” because people loved to party.
Most Americans saw drinking as accept-
able, even fashionable. No law could
change those engrained beliefs.
Another example is the recent success
in curbing the number ofdrunken driving

the destruction

caused by drunken drivers, showing

pictures of the mothers and adorable

young children killed in drunken driv-

ing accidents, have a greater effect
than any law ever could.

W&L, in many respects, is very similar

to the Roaring Twenties. Our unofficial

motto is “Work Hard, Play Hard,” and we

engrained in our culture. BYOB will not
change that, nor should it.

What has to change is our belief in
our own invincibility. If you’re so
drunk that you try to unlock the door
to someone else’s car, don’t drive
home. Even if you’re not driving
home, you probably didn’t need that
last beer, especially if it was your
twentieth. If that last beer was your
sixth or seventh, why tempt fate by
driving?

Don’t let your friends tempt fate, ei-
ther. If they need to be cut off, cut them
off. lfyou have to wrestlethe car keys out
of their hands, do it. Sure, they’ll prob-
ably laugh at you or yell at you or even try
to deck you. Personally, I’d rather
have my best friend kick my ass than
attend his funeral.

OFT}-HEVVEEK

Hello? Doyouhaxebeei?

- Very first words spoken by an eager
senior, to her friend, over the phone.

499

Elite ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editors

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor
w&Itfe Editors

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editor

Copy Editor

Assistant Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Online Editor

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Hillary Coombs
Andrea Ewing

Kathryn Mayumik
Tarah Grant

Liz Detter

David Balsley
John Stewart
Cliff Woolley
Holly Estes
Hollister Hovey
Tom Wadlow

Rebecca Cuny
Matthew Craig
Douglas Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub-
scription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica-
tions Board elects the Executive Editor and Business
Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬂce. room 208 of the University Center. by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for
content and length. Letters, columns, and “My Views”
do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-
rial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of
The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Le)dngton. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

are a good first step. Even if the regula-

Taking a lesson in
Dubyuhliberalism

Since this is my first column of
the year, I thought that I would use
this opportunity to conduct my
own type of orientation.

 

Freshmen need time to adjust
to the fact that there actually is a
liberal Washington and Lee stu-
dent who will put her name on this
column twice a month. But before
you decide that I am “evil” or
“subversive” for being a Liberal
and a Democrat, I wanted to give
you some background about this
column. W&L — even you —
may not be as conservative as
you think.

Besides the Hollywood—esque
glamour of working for the Phi,
my original intent in writing
“From the Left” was to provide a
counterpoint to conservative, en-
trenched W&L views and maybe
win over a few converts to the
liberal cause in the process. I have
tried to inform readers about cur-
rent national events, present them

Letter to
the editor

President John
Elrod has asked me to
announce a contest to
design banners that
will be carried by stu-
dents in processions
during ceremonies at
Washington and Lee.
We invite all members
ofthe university com-
munity to propose de-
signs for four banners
to represent the uni-
versity,The College,the
Williams Schoolandthe
School of Law. Win-
ners will receive gift cer-
tificates of $100 each
from the University
Bookstore. Contestants
should submit designs
to me at the Department
of History no later than
Thanksgiving break.
Thejudges (Dr. Thomas
Litzenburg, Dr. Pamela
Simpson, Dr. Taylor
Sanders and me) will
announcethe winners no
Iaterthan December 12,
the last day of fall term.

Holt Merchant

Chairman

“Hell no.’ The girls can ’t handle that. The
guys get worse treatment than they do be-

cause all the upperclassmen have
all these new rules. ”

—Mike Holmes, ’0I

in a relatively coherent way, stir
up some critical thinking and
spark some much needed debate in
this “Land 0’ Conformists.”

It wasn’t until right before I
wrote my ﬁnal column of last year
that I realized it is impossible to
change anyone’s mind unless
people actually read what I write.
A friend’s offhanded comment
brought it all home for me: “I read
your column when it’s not about
politics.” This was humorous,
because all my columns were
about politics.

So, my big epiphany was: don’t
write about politics. To those
who scurry around the science
building, a discussion about fed-
eral welfare benefits and educa-
tion reform may be a bit dry. It’s
understandable. To serve my pur-
pose of inciting some much needed
debate on campus, I propose to
alter my range of inquiry and writ-
ing. I will leave the national mat-
ters to the professional pundits
and turn my attention to more rel-
evant, campus matters.

But please understand that my
attempt to turn “a liberal eye to

fatalities in America. Undoubtedly, part

certainly love to drink.

Alcohol is

The rules don’t have to change; we do.

 

  

3

  
 

CULLIGA

  

W&L campus politics” should not
be construed to mean that I want
W&L to become an Amherst
clone. Our school has endured for
250 years. Obviously, somebody
must be doing something right.

However, W&L’s forthcoming
bicenquinquadenary sometimes
acts as a curse. A prevalent mind-
set on campus is that if we have
made it this far, then what’s the
need for change? W&L has al-
ways been conservative—isn’t
that the way it should stay?

But consider this: up until ten
years ago, W&L had enrolled only

male students. Obviously, that has
changed. I think that I have, at the
absolute least, the support of 45
percent of the campus when I say
that W&L is better as a co—ed in-
stitution. Changecanbeagoodthing.

I do not propose to tear down
the Colonnade and build a mini-
mall with the Blockbuster Video
and Dairy Queen that we have
been promised for the past two
years. That type of change is not
good. I would rather motivate and
change the opinions of a few. Ifl
make at least one person angry
enough to write me a letter to tell

me that I am dead wrong, I will
have accomplished something.

I hope my column can incite
some to take a second look. I
know that I am asking a lot. But
as college students ~— young,
talented and damn smart — we
owe it to ourselves and our gen-
eration to effect great change.
We are all wasting away in our
inactivity and passiveness. Be-
fore it is too late, before we all go
off to be doctors, lawyers and
investment bankers, let’s get ac-
tive. Let’s get involved. Let’s
stand up for what we believe in.

Gossip and llamas make odd bedfellows

Announcer: “Good evening, and welcome
back to ‘Hard Copy.’ In a minute, we’ll be
reporting on the latest shocking sex scandal
our writers stayed up all night fabricating.

The Looney Bin

Kevin McManemin ’OO

 

That’s right, folks: The Secret Life of Al
Gore.’ But first, let’s check in with reporter
Susan Shady, who has been following the cast
of ‘Friends’ all day. What’s happening,
Susan?”

Susan Shady: “This has been a very busy
day forthecast of ‘Friends.’ David Schwimmer
started his day by driving to the local bakery.
We can’t say at this point what he bought, but
it’s probably some sort of baked goods.”

A: “Bread, perhaps?”

SS: “It’s too early to say. I wouldn’t want
to jump to any conclusions.”

A: “What about the other ‘Friends’?”

SS: “Well, Courtney Cox went to the local
supermarket. We interviewed the guy who
bagged her groceries and he said that she got
Rice Krispies, milk and a melon.”

A: “It sounds like breakfast. Would it be
fair to assume she might eat this breakfast
after, say, a night of hot sex with Ricardo
Montban?”

SS: “I would say so.”

A: “Fascinating. You heard it here, folks.
Courtney Cox is sleeping with Ricardo

 

Montban. Any other ‘Friends’ activity,
Susan?”

SS: “Well, Matthew Perry and Lisa Kudrow
were in court today obtaining a restraining
order against us.”

A: “Would it be fair to say that Matthew
Perry and Lisa Kudrow are sleeping with
each other?”

SS: “It certainly would be.”

A: “And what about that other guy?”

(6
But first, let’s check in with
reporter Susan Shady, who has
been following the cast of
‘Friends’ all day.

97

SS: “Matt LeBlanc? We haven’t seen him
all day.”

A: “So, it’s possible that he’s been at home
all day, having hot sex with Michael Jackson
and his llama?”

SS: “Possible and very likely. We haven’t
seen Michael Jackson either. Or the llama.”

A: “Outstanding. Isn’t there a sixth
‘Friend’?”

SS: “Yes, Jennifer Aniston. As you’ll
remember from last week’s report, Jennifer
Aniston is acutally an alien from the planet
Zorbarollia.”

A:“Yes,yes,butwhoisshesleepingwith?”

SS: “Um, I don’t know...uh...the drummer

for...uh...Led Zeppelin.”

A: “Fascinating! Jennifer Aniston, who’s
real name is Nodar, is sleeping with deceased
Led Zeppelin drummer John ‘Bonzo’
Bonham.”

SS: “Oh, he died?”

A: “Yes. It is obviousthat the Zorbarollians
have a way of_reviving the dead. Perhaps
Jesus was actually resurrected by
Zorbarollians. What a shocking revelation
for the millions of Christians around the
globe. Who knows what this...”

(Handed paper from off camera.)

A: “Excuse me, thisjust in, thisjust in: OJ
Simpson’s third grade teacher’s cousin has
finally come out of hiding and is speaking to
the press! We break from our ‘Friends’
coverage to bring you this important
breaking story.”

The moral of this story is that the show
“Hard Copy” sucks. Another moral is that
Jennifer Aniston is probably from another
planet because I’ve lived on Earth for 19
years and never seen a woman who looks that
good. Please do not attach any other morals
to this story. Please do not feed the story to
pets, small children or fat guys. Store story at
room temperature. Keep story away from
eyes. If rash occurs, consult your doctor.
Story is meant for entertainment purposes
only and should not be usedfor gambling. If
under 18, please get parent ’s permission be-
fore reading story. Story is not a good source
of nutrition.

9 Do you think premenstrual syndrome is a legitimate
Q excuse for the female cadet to hit her superior officer?

1

to follow have. '

“The basis of going to VMI is self-control.
That’s one of the things the girls have to

—-Steve Hopkins, '00

 

“No, l didn ’t think it was legitimate because
she knew going into VMI what certain as-
pects of being a women are, and she made a
commitment to abide by the university rules. '

—Bro0ke Stanley, '00

“That’s lame.’ That’s the lamest thing I’ve
ever heard. lf she’d burst into tears, that
c.9uld've been PMS...when a girl gets mad
it 's not likes she says, ‘I ‘m mad. I ’m gonna
go out and hit a tree/"’

—-Elizabeth Huston, '90

r

 

 

 

   

 

SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

SIMPLE
SOLUTIONS FOR
THE SocIALLv
CHALLENGED

elcome y’al1 to the Phi ’s newest feature column.
We hope this will provide you with much-needed,
never—before—seen, advice for all your social

quandries; from what—to—wear to date functions to proper

etiquette at a rugby game.

We at the Phi encourage you to drop your questions off at one
of our convenientlocations: in the D-Hall, the University
Center, Co-Op,the Phi Mailbox or e-mail her at
eti.quette@wlu.edu. We look forward to hearing from you

soon!

For Ms. Etiquette’s first column she decided to provide
y‘all with a list of the ins and outs at W&L— especially for you
fnzshrnen. She knows you may not yet know that typical state
sc‘nool social norms don’t quite ﬂy here at W&L. Welcome to

Ibex, freshmen!

     

 

KAJHYRN IVLAYURNIK
——~————— NEWS EDITOR
F43 That was the excuse I heard.
Within seconds ofthe news that a
female Virginia Military cadet struck
a male cadet after God-knows-what

movies. And if you’re lucky, it feels
like someone is stabbing your side
with salad tongs and ripping your
ovaries- out.

But, in light of women recently
gaining admittance to VMI, you
would think that they would try to

kind of de— keep all
humaniz- traces of
ingbarking, feminine
about 100  issues
people told f and prod-
me that she O ucts out
declared ofit. But
the on- it was
slaught of doomed
the “Crim- from the
son Wave” start.
before she Last
hit and ran. R k M W Id yearVMl
“Rat”  y  cadets
Garza, as w e r e
she is re- forced to
ferred to v s i t

endearingly by the VMI corps, never
commented on her apparent original
claim that a visit from her Aunt Flo
prompted her to lose her cool.

Let’s just say for now that she
really did have PMS and that was her
excuse for hitting him.

Speaking for all ofthe menstruat-
ing women in the world, that is just
about the most ridiculous thing I have
ever heard. Don’t get me wrong, PMS
is not funny. You crave salt. Your
feet swell. You cry during Disney

through constant seminars explain-
ing the intricacies of a woman’s pe-
riod, in an effort to explain why fe-
male cadets required separate shower
stalls.

On a related subject, how do
women dealwiththeirperiod atVMI?
They can’t leave post unless their
parents get them.

So what do they do, bring indus-
trial size barrels oftampons and “Al-
ways with Wings” with them to the
barracks? In fact, if you look at the

        

School   A as University

P A  R... e

_\/:;)i1 guys y’a11

black khaki

l\t'>()il)21ll laerosse

Thursday night at the Thursday night at the

bc”1TS library

American ﬂag Confederate flag

1 978 Dodge 1998 BMW

late night coffee shops Lee Hi

lT)ress up for nite life Dress up for elass
‘burl eeke

al tattoo

w.‘,gis;te1' by phone
mosh pit
urbanites
relationships
progression

Joe State School

fine dining

fake ID

Tommy Hilfiger
cheap alcohol
Young Democrats
Monday night football
raves ‘
bars

alcohol

guy friends
girlfriends

250 year anniversary
tattoo

matriculation

the Pavillion

townies

date functions

tradition

Peyton Jonathon Edmund
Welter III*

The Palms

University card

Polo

Absolut

Young Republicans

fraternities

fraternities

fraternities

fraternities

fraternities

fraternities

 All names are fictional. Any likeness to persons living
or dead is purely coincidental.

list of the contestants for the various
nationwide“Lifetime Supply ofFemi-
nine Products” contests, you will find
out that all of them were female ca-
dets.

Andthosetightie-whitieuniforms
they wear? Wouldn’t that suck if your
flow got out ofcontrol during a Friday
parade?

Butwhat ifPMS wasn’t really her
excuse? What if she mentioned it

 0 It’s Monday — enough said O  9 Timothy
Gaylard Faculty Recital Lenfest Center8 p.m. 9 Volleyball at Emory & Henry
9  6 DJ Party at PiKA O WLUR organizational meeting
7 p.m. Reid Hall room 203 0 Men’s Soccer 4 p.m. home 9 
9 Women’s Soccer at Hollins 0 Nancy Dahlstrom Gallery Reception duPont
Gallery 5:30 p.m. 9 Volleyball 6:30 p.m home 9 Auditions for Uncle Vanya

Lenfest Center 7 to 9 p.m. O  9 Uncle Mingo at Kappa Alpha 9
Breakfast Club at Pi Kappa Phi O “Kolya” at the Troubadour Theatre 0 Stayin’

Alive, Doremus Gym at 9 p.m. 0 More auditions for Uncle Vanya, Lenfest

seven

Center 7 to 9 p.m. O  6 Beach Party at Kappa Alpha 1 p.m. 0
Zen Trixters at Kappa Sigma 9 Right On at Sigma Nu 9 Breakfast Club at SPE
9 Night Owl Band Party 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 9 Women’s and Men’s Cross

Country Invitational at 11:30 a.m. 6 Football 1:30 p.m vs. Guilford home 9 Tailgate at somewhere to be discovered
9 Women’s Soccer vs. Va. Wesleyan 2 p.m Liberty Hall Fields home 9  look forward to a big fat hang-
over after a long party weekend 0 also much homework because you put it all off this weekend to party and hang out

9 Give all those road cheese girls rides back to school

CAN YW Efueve me viwwlp
wéfirvnow amt wem‘ wrap,

(7:17 Wth>

 

     
      

‘/:6A4+ 9 M
ﬁéelrxlwirxle,
are (aw,

WON (9 {W1

at/an TDCWI DAT-2 1?-We tern“

T7lZ&oTL\( AekIueTTéh’c HUNDZ cove
rear The @1219 t70l\l'T6V¢t~I
Garltéﬁ-TD IZEPDIZI’ 1'1”.

   

 

lm.

Colonnade Club ‘toy: Hollister

com 3' a

 

 

lively bistro

8: outdoor patio
 %¥- 

Hoyey

before she whacked the other cadet
and it didn’t have anything to do with
the incident?

Ifso,thatisjustsotypicalofmen
in general. To men, everything that
women doisduetoPMSorawoman’s
period.

And if you find this column dis-
jointed and annoying or discover a
lot oftypos, don’t blame me. Blame
my monthly friend.

The

moral of

sﬂence

TOM Maxmco
-T--— STAFF Wkrim
I’ve often wondered why silence
makes people uncomfortable. One
would think that, with the hundreds of
. wconversations
'  ;»*§  which continuall
  . ..§.:§,..§..i...a fill Onevs mind’ Z
few less voices
would be desirable. Of the people I
have asked, this really doesn’t seem to
be the case, which makes me wonder

 
  
 

9

I .

whether I am the only one who con- -

verses with the entities which inhabit
my mind. Well, regardless, this all
reminds me ofa story I heard from one
of the entities living in my brain:
Apparently, this entity was the
soul of a man named John who was
formerly employed in a frame manu-
facturing plant. Each day of work was
an infinite line of wooden strips tha
required the miterjointing. Riding on

the conveyor, each separate strip of

wood anxiously made its way toward

John, the Great Unitor, who would,..

with his divinely human power, take
four meaningless strips of wood and
form a structure of vast strength and
immeasurablebeauty.Amongthebir ‘
filled with soon-to-be frames, Jol -
was considered the highest power i
the universe, for he gave them a mean
ingful existence. John had achieve:
deity status with the wood blorks, ant.
with this came the duty ofjudgement

John, seeing the faith the wooder.‘

block had in him, could not allowjust

any block of wood to become part of I

a frame. He now had to evaluate
whether the wood was “good” or
“bad.” The worst pieces of wood were
caseintoanenormouspitofﬁre,while
the best were saved for John’s great
plan.

Being the Great Unitor, John
thought that he needed something to
testify to his unbounded power, and
his answer was: The Giant Frame.
John used only the best pieces ofwood
tocreateaframethatwaslarge enough
to encase his body within its borders.
This blasphemous display by John
infuriated the almighty power, who
then transformed John’s body into
canvas and oil paints which would
remain within the frame, and relegated
his soul into the tenth circle of hell, the
one that Dante forgot: my mind. It is
there that poor John must spend an
eternity, suffering in ways which
would take pages to describe, how-
ever since I only have a few words
left, I end with a quote from a Kurt
Vonnegut Jr. book: “So it goes.”

 

Breakfast Lunch Candlelight Dinners
Fine Wines Imported Beers
Cappuccino Espresso
Homemade Baguettes 63* Croissants
Outrageous Desserts

10% off with
college Ill

19 W. Washington St.
540 /464-1900

 

