 

it

A

Lt‘

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNNERBITY
LEXINGTON. VA 24400

NOV 0 81995

U112 ifdng-tum iﬁlii

VOLUME  NUMBER 1 1

“GENERAL
NOTES

 

WHO'S WHO HONORS SENIORS:

Who ’s Who/lmong Students inAmerican Universities and
Colleges selected 35 W&L senior undergrads and 12 third-
year law students to appear in its 1997 edition. The 57 students
join the ranks of scholars from 1900 colleges and universities
around the world. Members of the university community
nominate students for Who ’s Who based on academic achieve-
ment, community service, extracurricular leadership and fu-
ture potential.

FILM EXPLORES VIOLENCE:

The W&L Film Society will treat Troubadour patrons to
Once Were Warriors, a story of domestic and cultural violence
in New Zealand. The ﬁlm’s title is double-edged. On the one
hand, it reflects a renaissance of Maori pride and self-asser-
tion. In the film, though, it symbolizes the debasement of
warrior values into stupid macho cliches arising from power-
lessness and disenfranchisement, not strenth. The ﬁlm focuses
on the experiences of one family, and is directed by Lee
Tamahori.

Showings are on Friday, November 8 and Saturday, No-
vember 9 at 7:30 p.m. Admission is free of charge, but
contributions are welcomed.

ANDERSON GIVES LECTURE:

Students of economics will enjoy “The International Trad-
ing Order: How Open and Who Gets Hurt?” on November 13
at 7:00 p.m. The Class of ’62 Fellowship Lecture will be given
by Michael A. Anderson, associate professor of economics at
W&L. The public is invited to attend the lecture in Northen
Auditorium and the reception immediately following.

WRITERS BATTLE HUNGER:

Local writers are ﬁghting hunger with the fifth annual
“Writers Harvest: The National Reading.” Benefits from the
reading go to the Blue Ridge Food Bank. Tom Zielgler, W&L‘
professor of theatre, Bill Oliver, assistant professor of English,
and Sarah Anne Ryder and Aaron Wilkinson, W&L seniors,
are among readers scheduled to participate.

“Writers Harvest” is the country’s largest literary benefit
to ﬁght hunger, and will be held in Northen Auditorium on
Thursday, November 14 at 8:00 p.m. Admission is $5 and is
open to the public. Tickets will be on sale at the door.

COURT ARGUES INDECENCY:

Washington and Lee School of Law’s John W. Davis Moot
Court Competition will end with downright indecency. The

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

Faculty recognized hazing
problem, reevaluates policy

BY Liz DETTER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Why does the momentum to do something about
hazing come from a New York Times article ratherthan
from student complaints?” Sophomore Elizabeth Huston
voiced the question that has been on everyone’s mind
these last few days.

The answer to this question is that it has not. The
Student Affairs Committee voted, last Wednesday, to
approve a new policy on hazing, the culmination of
events which began last December.

According to President Elrod, he first learned of the
hazing problem last year. “I had not directly encoun-
tered a hazing problem at Washington and Lee until I
began receiving anonymous letters and phone calls
from parents and students. Every conversation in-
formed me of hazing incidents that were going on last
year. They were all telling me the same story, which
lent credibility to the reports.”

Elrod responded by infomiing the Board of Trustees.
He also met with the presidents and pledge educators of
all ﬁfteen fraternities. The fraternities were told that
hazing is both dishonorable and illegal and that the
University intended to erradicate it.

At the request of the Trustees, the President of the
Executive Committee, President of the Interfraternity
Council, the Dean of Students, the Associate Dean of
Students for Greek Life and a member of the Board of
Trustees began work on a plan to eliminate hazing. As
part of this comprehensive plan, the Student Affairs
Committee designed a new University policy on haz-
ing. -

Under the new plan, which was approved last
Wednesday by a vote of 9 for, 2 against, and 1 abstain-
ing, individuals will be held responsible for hazing.

“Instead of going after the institution, we will go
afterthe persons in the fraternity who haze. Forthe ones
who encourage it, the penalty will be suspension or
possibly dismissal,” said Buddy Atkins, the Associate

Ethernet brings speed to dorms
UC, SNC, initiate new
networking project

“This will allow users easier access to

BY TQM WADLOW

Dean of Students for Greek Life.

Atkins expressed disgust with hazing, and empha-
sized that the University is implementing a plan, rather
than a policy, to combat hazing. “It’s a major problem
for this University,” he said. “We can’t just improve by
modest degrees; we need to get rid of it. It not only
weakens the University, it weakens the Honor System,
and it weakens the fraternities.”

As part of the comprehensive plan, President Elrod
intends to involve parents, faculty, and students. In his
Parent’s Weekend address, he stated, “Our number one
concern is hazing.”

l’ve talked to the parents of our students over Parents
Weekend, and I intend to write them a letter,” Elrod
commented Tuesday. “I am going to write to the parents
of every freshman male and the parents of every frater-
nity male, and I’m goingto ask them to help us erradicate
this problem however we can.”

Part of the new plan includes redesigning the
pledgeship program to eliminate any form of hazing. “I
think that if the new program was structured and de-
manding, within the limits of the new policy, then it
could be just as effective,” said a senior "fraternity
member.

Under the new plan, students and faculty could
report incidents of hazing. Interfraternity Council Presi-
dent Anthony Mazzarelli explained, “The new Univer-
sity hazing policy allows for various different types of
input which would lead to investigations, but at the
same time, it protects fratemites because action will
only be taken if evidence is found.” ,

Certainly the awareness of hazing has been height-
ened by the recent article in the New York Times. This
may lead to increased cooperation with the new policy.
After a faculty meeting Monday night, which was
called to discuss the recent article, faculty all over
campus began to question their students about Greek
life.

Professor Michael Anderson had been completely

Please see HAZING, pg. 4

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 8, 1996

final round explores a hypothetical case of “Indecency on the
Internet.” A 10-year-old who was researching the history of
photography for a school project accessed photographs of
nude men and women engaged in explicit acts. These photo-
graphs were part of a sales pitch for admission to Naughty
Netsurfers’ website; thus, there was no charge to see them.

Questions considered will concern the recently passed
Anti-lndecency and Effective Standards for Cyberspace Com-
munications Act.

The “Indecency on the lnternet” case will be argued at 4:00
p.m. on Thursday, November 14 in Lee Chapel. The public is
welcome.

STUDY IN SCOTLAND:

Students in the Class of ‘97 with an excellent academic
record, leadership qualiﬁcations, financial need and some
Scottish ancestry, should see Dean West-Settle to talk about
St. Andrew’s Scholarships for graduate study in Scotland.
Call ext. 8746 for an appointment.

FEED THE HOMELESS:

The Class of ‘99 will be sponsoring a food drive next week

PHI ASSISTANT News EDITOR

November 4 marked the day that stu-
dents began seeing orange ﬂyers pro-
claiming that soon, you too, could have
Ethernet in your dorm.

No, these aren’t advertisements for
pharmaceuticals that you can have deliv-
ered to your room; rather, it is a major
step by University Computing (fondly
known as UC by the people who work
there) and the newly formed Student
Networking Cooperative (SNC) to up-
grade student’s personal connections to
the lntemet.

Ethernet provides a fast and reliable
connection to the campus network, and it
allows for the use of more advanced
networking applications. However, for
most people, the greatest advantage of
Ethernet will be never having to see the
“All data queues full” message ﬂash
across their screen again, since with

thecampus network andthe resources of
the lnternet,” said Cliff Woolley, a found-
ing member of the SNC. “Students should
ﬁnd that the speed of the Ethernet com-
pared with the speed of the data phones is
more conducive to heavy usage, and they
will no longer have to wait in line for
online time.”

Currently, Ethernet is available on a
first-come, ﬁrst-serve basis because there
are alimited number of ports available.
In the smaller dorms there are 24 connec-
tions available, and in the larger, such as
Gaines and Graham—Lees, there are 24
per wing.

Although not everybody is going to
get connected in this round of upgrades,
UC and the SNC have plans to eventually
bring every room this type of connection.

This will not mean, however, that
students without Ethernet will not be
able to get their e-mail from their dorm
room, and, as of right now, there are no
plans to get rid of the current Rolm termi-
nal interface.

 

Ifyou are one ofthe lucky few who is
able to get a slot, the SNC and UC is
requiring that students who plan on using
the connection to take a one-time course
before they get their IP (Internet Proto-
col) Address, a set of numbers that is
needed for everything to work.

These classes will be taught by the
University Computn’ HelpDesk staff and
other students who have been taught by
the members of the SNC.

Photo by Mark Slomiany

Sophomore Cliff Woolley, one of the founding members of the UC
Help Desk, assists students with their computer questions.

Classes will be scheduled by what
type of Operating System (OS) the appli-
cant is currently running.

Students can apply for the few re-
maining ports on the hub in their dorm by
going to the “In the Spotlight” section of
W&L’s Web page and filling out the
form supplied online.

The SNC would like to thank Bob
Williams, Ruth Floyd and Tom Tinsley

for a Thanksgiving benefit for the Rockbridge Area Relief
Association. Donations of non-perishable ﬂood and money
will be collected outside the Co-op from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. daily,
November 11-20. Total donations will be tallied on a per class
basis. Any questions can be directed to Amanda Yater at 462-
4250.

BE A R.A. OR A D.C,:

Applications and information for becoming a 1997-1998
Dorm Counselor or Gaines Resident Assistant are now avail-
able in Payne Hall 4. Applications are due on Monday,
December 2. See Dean Manning if you have any questions
about the application/selection process.

 

P O P I N I ON

Bureaucracy in GreenLand. “Bubba’s Bunch”
leaves Washington. Election wrap-up “From the
Right.” page 2

V FEAT U R E S J,
 Alex Christensen berates The Long
"  Kiss Goodnight. W&L Life offers
i,“1°j%‘%;? "‘ interactive talk on AIDS. Larry
. """" “ ' - Wynn (’34) hopes to bring the
 “W&L Swing” to Broadway. page 3

   
 

 
  

F SPORTS

Cross country squads fare well at ODACs. Foot- ‘’

ball to play in game with title implications. Men's
soccer in ODAC Final Four. page 8

Ethernet, a user is always connected.

BY TARAH GRANT
PHI News EDITOR

For a school so proud of maintaining a long-
standing tradition of honor, the recent focus of atten-
tion on poor student conduct is unusual. While the
subject of hazing has been brought into the spotlight,
another conduct violation, vandalism, is also being
highlighted. In the past two weeks, eight sophomore
males have been convicted for vandalism by the
Student Conduct Committee (SCC).

On October 29, the SCC brought charges against
three sophomore males involved in vandalism in the
dorms. According to SCC President Robert
Covington, the incident caused minimal damage and
was accidental in nature. One student was sentenced
to payment of 150% of the cost of damages, and all
three students are required to write a letter of apology
to the dormitory hall involved. “Additionally, the
students were placed on conduct probation because
we felt that drunkenness was no excuse for this act

Photo by Mark Slomiany

Buildings & Grounds repairs a window
broken by vandals last week.

Vandals leave their mark on campus
SCC convicts eight sophomore males

 

even if it was unintentional,” said Covington.

The vandelism, however, not only damaged prop-
erty, but also endangered students’ safety. Two
students were standing below the window when it
broke. “When [my friend] heard the glass break, he
pushed me under the eve,” said a freshman female
who witnessed the act of vandelism. “He looked up
and glass fell in his eye.”

Security drove the couple to the emergency room,
and the doctor “scrapped a tiny sliver of glass off his
eyelid.”

The followingweek,chargeswere brought against
four more students in two SCC hearings on Novem-
ber 5. The SCC found another sophomore male
guilty of vandalism and imposed the same sentence
as the previous cases. In addition, four sophomore
males were found guilty in regard to a vandalism
incident at a fraternity house.

The students invloved with this incident were
required to write a letter of apology to the house-
mother and Buildings and Grounds, pay 150% of the
cost of damages, and were put on social probation for
the remainder of the academic year. In addition, one
student must complete 15 hours of community ser-
vice by the end of the Winter term and the other three
students must each serve 10 hours.

Associate Director of Buildings and Grounds
Randolph Hare says that vandalism concerning uni-
versity housing has always occurred. “Historically
there are always problems with vandalism,” he said.
“From our standpoint, there has not been a signifi-
cant increase, but to the credit of the SCC, there has
been greater awareness and stricter. enforcement of
penalties.”

According to Hare, the new “scheme” this year
seems to be water balloon slingshots targeted at
windows. Director of Security Michael Young be-
lie'ves that vandalism is usually motivated by intoxi-
cation rather than a desire to cause damage. “Van-
dalism here is not a large problem compared to other
places that I have been,” said Young.

The SCC, however, is taking every case seriously.

Please see VANDALISM, pg. 4

for doing an excellent job on this project.

Alum joins ranks
of Walter Cronkite,
David Brinkley

BY DAN ODENWALD
PHI STAFF WRITER

Charlie McDowell did it differently. And, as Robert
Frost surmised, that has made all the difference in the
world.

“He did it because he could,” said former CBS
newsman and colleague Roger Mudd. “He had the
talent, the eye and the sense of the absurd.”

On Tuesday, McDowell, the 47-year veteran of the
Richmond Times-Dispatch, was given the National
Press Club’s highest accolade, the Fourth Estate Award.
Recognizing careers that have embodied the profession ’s
highest standards, the award has previously been given
to such notable figures as Walter Cronkite, Helen Tho-
mas, David Brinkley and James Reston.

Citing his “incisive thinking and graceful writing
about government and politics,” the Press Club’s Board
of Governors wish to celebrate McDowell’s success as
a Washington correspondent.

McDowell graduated from W&L in 1948 and then
went to the Times—Dispatch the next year as a features
reporter. Editors soon realized his journalistic talent
and moved him to their Washington bureau. He became
tlge paper’s first full-time Washington correspondent in
1 65.

Accordingto Mudd, what separated McDowell from
the rest of the pack was his sense ofthe offbeat and his
ability to deliver the news in a fresh perspective. Essen-
tially, he offered the reader a break from the monotony
of the “who-what-when-where-how” style of journal-
ism that had plagued the pages of the Times—Dispatch
since its inception.

Mudd recalls one of the first stories McDowell ever
covered. The grounds surrounding the capitol building
in Richmond had been invaded by legions of squirrels.
Frustrated with their presence, the governor ordered his
Buildings and Grounds crew to get rid of the annoying

Please see MCDOWELL, pg. 4

 

  

PAGE 2

Hazing treats
W&L students
like animals

Life on the Hill
I C. E. Miller ’98

The black and white photo-
graphs make me nauseous, the cap-
tions curdle my stomach. So stark,
so revolting. Then the realization
that this isn’t happening to some-
one else, someplace else. This is
Washington and Lee University.

We made The New York Times
this last Sunday, and unlike being
at the top of US News and World
Report, this isn’t something I plan
on sharing with the world. I don’t
think Mom and Dad want to ac-
knowledge that boys I know be-
lieve that pain and humiliation is
the only way to ensure loyalty and
unification. And that those same
boys will pay the price, financially
and physically, just to belong.

I’m starting my third year at this
University. I don’t have any re-
grets. I don’t wish I were some-
place else. Because of that there is
no way I can claim ignorance or
surprise at the hazing pictures dis-
played in The Times this Sunday.

Many of my friends have shared

“They tell us
we're smart
kids,
America’s
best and
brightest. ”

similar stories with me, but they

were just stories. ‘You can’t avoid}...
these pictures. You can-’targue with .

them. Sometimes, the truth is very
hard to see. But these pictures show
thingsvery clearly. Some of the
acts depicted aren’t about brother-
hood and bonding. They are hu-
man beings being treated like ani-
mals.

It seems these are tactics to break
men down, not bring them closer
together. These practices are ar-
chaic, animalistic something to feel
shame about as a university, as a
fraternity as an individual.

I have heard so many different
reactions this week, so many boys
laughing about it, so many of my

friends recoiling with disgust to
the actual photographs, angry pro-
fessors who sit on both sides of the
fence of tradition.

It seems a lot of people want
answers and solutions, and some
want the situation to be ignored. I
don’t know if there is an answer, if
there is a person, an organization
to blame. It would seem we all
share in this responsibility.

Perhaps the blame falls on the
administration. The deans that run
this university know all about the
underbelly of this campus. The
photographs hold no surprises, just
truth. The current hazing policies
rely on reporting the instance of
hazing that occurred. The conse-
quences ofthis to an individual are
extreme. Alienation by his peers,
and brothers is almost sure to oc-
cur. lts hard to keep secrets on a
campus this small.

The fraternities themselves must

also be responsible. To single out A

a house, or blame a particular per-
son is impossible. Each is respon-
sible, on the local level, on the
national level. I was told once of a
pledge, who after tear night, was
decided by the brethren to be “un-
worthy” of initiation. In order to
get the pledge to drop out he was
specifically targeted for hazing
practices more severe than that of
his other pledge brothers. This is
one group inﬂicting pain and hu-
miliation on one individual for no
other reason than dislike.

There it is again the need, to
belong, to fit in, to be recognized
as a part of a “group.” This is an
especially great problem on this
campus. We need to hold ourselves
responsible for that. The student
body is homogeneous and ex-
tremely hostile toward people with
perceived differences. I’ll admit
l’ve been guilty of judging a per-

son onrumors, on what they were ,
:wea‘ring,~or'_even for a comment

made in class. I’m not nice to ev-
eryone, and I don’t like everyone,
but I do believe in respect. I can
respect a person for his individual-
ity. That on this campus takes cour-
age.

We’ve all seen it, we’ve all
spread the rumors about broken
bones, branding, boys in the hospi-
tal for alcohol poisoning. They tell
us we are smart kids, America’s
best and brightest. What happened
to our compassion, our intelligence
to question orders, to once in a
while ﬁght tradition, just think for

ourselves and not en mass?

“HoW old is he?

Quote of the Week:

— anonymous sophomore females watching
President Elrod jogging

He looks good!”

dent.

and obscenity.

@112 illing-tum lﬂhi

.................................. ..Anne Alvord
............................. ..Hillary Coombs
.................................. ..Tarah Grant
................................. ..Tom Wadlow
................................ ..Jason Zacher

Executive Editor ............................ ..
Managing Editor ............................ ..
News Editor ................................... ..
Assistant News Editor .................... ..
Editorial Page Editor ...................... ..

Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman

Features Editor ................................................................. ..Dave Balsley
Assistant Features Editor ................................................ ..Andrea Ewing
Photography Editor ....................................................... ..Mark Slomiany
Business Manager ............................................................. ..Will Hershey
Advertising Manager .......................................................... ..Chip Harrell

Circulation Managers ............................. ..Daniel Harrell. Justin Laborde

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce. room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum
Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters.
columns. and “My Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Oﬁice Box 899
Lexington. Virginia _24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi,

NOVEMBER 8, 1996

 

Disheylaml

Fdlare Plmsi Jab ed‘
as The
9 igblh clvvarﬁ

 

Fat I M/‘ll
.5l:'+el1i5 "&ml,ne'w,;:l:;

0'.:r'v-J
*me'e'v.:w

D
e
p S
a
r B
t u
u n
r c
e h

9.

AT The Gap in lliemali.

The bureaucracy is everywhere

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

What an exciting week it’s been.
Winter Term registration and the
election have certainly kept me
occupied. It is these two activities
that inspired me to make this
week’s column Betsy’s Salute to
Bureaucracy.

Course registration has become
ridiculous. One of the reasons a
small school appealed to me was
that I thought life would be much
easier. In a small school, I rea-
soned, I’d be able to talk to my
professors whenever I wanted, find
the library books I needed, and not
have to stand in line and put up
with hours of frustration to get the
classes I want. Two out of three
isn’t bad, but it could certainly be
better.

On Monday, chaos reined. A
line stretched out of Karen Lyle’s
office and down the stairs. Dan
Odenwald went to four different
buildings trying to figure out where
to get a signature for a literature in
translation class. Allison Simmons
stood in line at4:50in the morning
and barely got into the history class
she wanted. I myself chose one of
my classes for the sole reason that
permission was not required to take
it. And it’s not over yet. I’ll see
you bright and early in the morn-
ing on Monday, January 6 to sign
up for P.E. classes.

It’s time to stop the madness.

We absolutely need to simplify

 
 

this whole stupid registration pro-
cess. Every department has a dif-
ferent policy right now. Wouldn’t
it be easier if all of them worked
the same way’? At least then we’d
know what to expect and could
plan our attack plans accordingly.

As for the popular classes we all
get up early and stand in line for.
maybe the departments could in-
formally survey students to deter-
minealevelofinterest. Ifit’s high,
more sections could be taught. Or
professors could get sneaky. We’d
all love to take that one hour a
week, professor give free dough-
nuts, show up and get an A class...
but woulditbe so popularifit were
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday
at 8am?

And can anyone think of any
earthly reason for PE. registration
to take place two months after ev-
erything else? I can’t, although
I’m willing to be The Phi will get a
letter within the next week ex-
plaining this phenomenon. I wel-
come it I’d love to know the rea-
son. It’ll give me something to
think about while I pitch my tent
outside the gym at 2 in the morning
this January. Okay, now I’m rant-
ing. I’ll admit that. But it’s time
we made some changes around
here.

My other big event this week
was voting in my first presidential
election. I got up on Tuesday
morning and walked to City Hall
(I’m registered in Virginia) feel-
ing like a good citizen, excited to
be a part of the process.

Voting really is pretty neat. It

beats standing in line for history
class any day. After all of MTV’s
Rock The Vote hype, I half ex-
pected Kurt Loder to be waiting at
the polls to shake my hand. The
volunteers at the polls were, to put
it delicately, not of the MTV gen-
eration. They may well have voted
for Bob Dole because he seems

“After all of
MTV’s ‘Rock
The Vote’ hype,
I hay‘ expected
Kurt Loder to
be waiting at
the polls to
shake my
handf’

like a nice young man (by the way,
for the humor impaired, I honestly
respect and applaud the people who
volunteer to work the polls and
probably get no more than a cup of
coffee and a button in return for
their time and I’m only kidding so
relax already).

Anyway, I went to the lovely
volunteer and told her I was Eliza-
beth Greenland gave her my ad-
dress. She and the woman next to
herbegan flipping though volumes
of pages. She said, “Could I have
your full name please?” So I told
her I was “Elizabeth Ann Green.”

g .,»'0nce-Youvaiemitiatedlintothevfrateunty y ,
‘  havejthe iigiirto makegfttyxvhatl on ' ‘

Perhaps in case there are two people
named Elizabeth Green that live in
my apartment. She yelled,
“ELIZABETH ANN GREEN,”
and the woman next to her made a
mark on her volume of paper.
She then handed me an index
card on which was written the word

“Vote” and I moved on to the next
point, having no idea what to do

with the card, still a little bit taken
aback by having her yell my name
like that, like my mom did when I
was little and she was angry at me.
Oh, sorry. Ranting again.

The next volunteer, standing
about two feet away, took my little
index card. A fine system they
have there. Did they really need
the index card? Couldn’t the lady
at the table have vouched for me?
I’d have said, “Yes, I’m the Eliza-
beth they werejust yelling about.”
Also, I have a whole stack of index
cards at home, I could start hand-
ing them to random people, so
they could vote more... I could get
Mark Warner elected yet!

The booth itself was exciting
for me too. It’s weird to think I’m
doing my duty as a citizen, making
things happen in America in an
area smaller than my shower. The
ballots I was used to in Illinois
were the ones you punch holes in.
Here there are levers you move to
select your candidate—it’s like a
big toy. When you pull the lever to
open the curtain again, all of the
levers move back to neutral. It’s
really hard to believe you’ve done
anything at all. I think it’s all a big
sham, designed to sell index cards.

   

  

   
   
 
  
   
 
      
   
   
  

 
     
       
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  

 

I " a: bait the fraternities, you will

w.-._; '1on‘g , ithoutj;,fraterr1itie"s5

‘ lion toseeing as plummet inthef ever so
ant ratings‘,,because,we’ have the most.

inerouslyieontribute to this university.
Bu you won’: ban fraternities. After all,

' naissance. And,of course, the adrninistrators;
charge of the fraternity system will ensure

hat: the system remains intact. A powerful.
 old boy system is not easily broken.
Hazig has been going on at this fine (1.5.
A . News and World Report institution since we
 have had fraternities. Many of the adminis-
. if Vtrators and faculty know this. -But, they have
 "chosen to ignore it because they either con-
ij done: it or they fear the repercussions both
  personally and for the institution as a whole.

V fraterjriitiesilatp thisiiniyersity

.nday;._ and. Saturday night? ~

‘re socialfabric or this lnstittij A
.ni°i[I_that- Waslﬁnshm & Les :

arethlejsociallifeofthisuniversity. In-.9.

_ s:iideni_bc§dy,iii_;he nation, you will _
,. the support. of. countless alumni who i

.Sp8n.t $15 millioncon the Fraternity Re-1

:1 - _ .. 3:"
ltherxfrateniity.  Theyfreceived ha1sh.‘ _trea

 

 wharéisehas theuniversi y

’ E hazing t .i:._‘. f+Iv‘eiy_,ritg1e, other saying that -
1 wefwill parish’ you if you geteaught. .What,has 
 : this or anythingjelse done to stop hazing?,,Noth?."§
LI ing.;_ Make no mistake about itghazing continues, 
-andwill continue as long astthereiare ftaternities_  ,  3' strong systemof hazing. For males at
‘ I u  -we may not haze ‘ pledgesi in the 7,  I A
A. I basementsof our houses’. anyiimore. But rest?»
‘iG_f,assured,ihazing will get done..jfAnd_in alllikelil-‘
 hood you will probably never know aboutit. 
I‘ 3  Freshmen mates, you ;cann’ot;win. ‘, You can.
1 either join. a'fratemity_j and hazeci; Or youcan
become an independent and have no life and basi- I
cally suck, by popular  'I'hat’s theway it
-is. lfit angers anyone, it should. ‘ s I

Buti‘Sreshr21en,don’twhineandc1y.'Il1ishasbeen

. goingonforevenfwhatyouseeinthepicturesistme.

Someplaceswilldoworsethanwhatyouseeinthose

 pictures. And  few, will treat you with any
fmorerespectthanwhat yousee. When you shake all
of those hands during Rush, make sure you realize
j that once you become a pledge, many of those

smiling faces will transform into angry faces who
will scream belligerent obscenities at you because

: I you did not perform your duty correctly. But do not

tell the administration because you will ruin your

* fraternity. Wha1ismore,youwiIlcertainlyruinyour
E chances of a peaceful existence at this university

because the many people who will hate you will
certainlymakeyourlife miserable. Whenpledgeship
happens to you, take it like men because you have no
choice. You are making some lifelong friends and
many say it is character building. Besides, just Wait
until next yearand the two years followingthatwhen
you will have pledges of your own.

 e

 
  
   

meuctand.inessence.paidroanesinsoiallihei

- thisblows upin yourffaces} rm calling yourbluff

   

,alongwiththetypeofstudentlifewehavechose" n7
“to: perpetuate. We have astrong Greek system

  

{done about hazing? Ibelieve it to be very little;
as evidenced by our own pitiful attempts and’
A the attempts of many universities to around;
’ our country to eradicate it. Maybe if the 

  

. tiwillfﬁilently  6

    
  

Most b.£’v.sil’i==it‘ I We   . .
urpﬁse=d?n3?°né%i.A11 of WW
hat goes "on. And many. of y(>u,ac_irnitri‘$t1_‘3iQIS
khowswhatgoesoxx And.p1eaS¢.d0n’¢Prefs0dﬂ1af.
you are soteiribly surpr‘isedwi1en lik ‘

    
 
   

   

    
    
 
      
   
 
  
       
     
 

Hazing is  But unfortunately it comes .

    

enables strongfxiendshipsbutalsoaetiveiyg

 
 

leasgﬂrceksgand hazingareinseparablylinkedati
almostany universityin this country. Whatcanbe _

fraternity system were not so central to this  9}
university’s identity, things wouldbegin to};
change and everyone, administrators and stu-
dents alike, would begin to escape this no-win“ 
situation. i _
In conclusion, I apologize for the cynical "

nature of this letter, because it will certainly :
obscure the many merits of this university ‘
and its fraternities. But I believe it is time to
address a serious problem openly, and with-
out the cowardice we have seen for too long.
Furthermore, I do not wish to sound self-
righteous, because I, too, openly share the
blame for the shortcomings of a fraternity
system in which I have participated for three
years. And ﬁnally, although I have been
very critical of the administration, I under-
stand that only certain individuals are to
blame. You know who you are. As for the
rest of the administrators and faculty, we are
all grateful and especially lucky to have you.

Atticus J. Gill, ’97

 

 

PAGE 3

The Long Movie That
Seems to last All Night

0 of 4 stars;
worse than
worthless

'  W8: life

Magi on B

I 61 9Broadway is the first show which
Wynn has written.

True to his love of Washington and
Lee, Wynn has chosen W&L as the sight .
for a public read/sing through of the

show. Wynn and his five-member pro-
duction team

   

BY DAVID BALsLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

graduate sings Washington and Lee’s
very own “W&L Swing.”
The show also contains other refer-
“ - ences to W&L, such as Fancy Dress and
Larry Wynn, a 1934 Washington and Trnvetier_

Lee graduate,wouldlike to introduce his Robert Mish, Associate Director of
alma mater to

Auditions for I 61 9Broadway will

be held in Washington and Lee
University’s Keller Theatre on the

following dates: November I I from
I :00 to 4:30 p.m. and from 7:00 to

9:00 p.m. for individual roles; No-

‘ it Broadway. - — ~ — ~ » -— -—.~ . - ~—  Witt be in vember I2from 1:00 to 5:30p.m.for
Wynn’s I619  7 Lexington for individual rolesand from 7:00 to 9:00 The pitch:

Broadway, The 1 6 1 9 B R O A D A Y the reading p.m.forensemblemembers;Novem- Algx Chg-igtcnggn nit!" be like
I 940’s American - —- They hope ber 13 will be reserved for callbacks Phi Movie Critic

Musical Review to use the from 3:00 to 6:00p.m. and, ifneces- La Femme

.. Nikita meets

sary, from 7:00 to 9:00 p. m.

If you are interested in audition-
ing, please call the Washington and
Lee Theater department secretary at
(540) 463-8001 to sign up for an

V K brings Washing-
ton and Lee to the
stage. The show, a
musical comedy
which Wynn has co-written along with

re ad i n g to
obtain a sense
of how 1619
Broadway will appear on stage.
“Wynn want to have a reading here to

Earth Girls

77:: 1940 ‘.1 American Musical Revue
I I Are Easy. "

 

Alumni Programs, saw a staged reading

ofthe Show in mid_OCtobertn New Yon“ The Long Kiss Goodnight is a very interesting phenom-

' Chapman Roberts, incorporates aspects Ensenibte Tneater_ See what it teoirs titre,” commented audition slot. Cast descriptions will em“: if '10‘ 3 m0Vi¢ ilIat’s interesting to watch, 1: takes
of W&L in“) its 5t°T)’ll“°- “It caught me by surprise when I was Albert Gordon, Professor of Theater. be P05’€d at the Theate’ DeP“"’"e’“ elements timm several different nicem ﬁlms anqlumblesihfm
1619 Bmadway "3995 the Struggles sitting in this little theater and the main Open auditions will begin next week ’eC€Pti0" 4750- Plea5eP’eP“re ‘1 bat‘ an up um” may are 'i°"'P'°‘°" mc°mprehens'.ble' If you ve

ti Of 3 Washlnglon and Lee graduate 35 he character mentioned W&L,” Mish stated. in Washington and Lee’s Keller Theater [ad and “'1 “P tempo 19403 50"8f0" watched a '0! of movies mely’ as I have’ you mlght be able to

find something to think about instead of having to completely
dissociate and form a second personality to deal with the
honor of it all.

Here’s the story, as near as I can tell: Geena Davis plays
herself. After the shooting of Cutthroat Island (directed, as

was TheLon2 Kiss Goodnight, by her weird Swedish husband
Renny Harlin), Ms. Davis, tired of her horrible, dried up

movie career which hasn’t seen a hit since 1992’sA League
of Their Own, jumps off the pirate ship into the ocean,
attempting to drown herself. Instead, she lives, and washes up
on the beach without being able to remember who she is.
Authorities convince her that she is Samantha Caine, a school
teacher, and over eight years she manages to build a new life
in upstate New York.

Meanwhile, Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson) of 1994’s
Pulp Fiction has given up his life of crime and “wandered the
earth” to New York City, where he has become a ﬂeabag
detective who relies on prostitution rackets to keep his bills
paid. Of course, he's still a “bad motherf—-er.” Winnfield
uncovers Davis’s “true identity” in a series of shocking

your audition. All are welcome to
audition, and this is an excellent op-
portunity for established singing
groups to perform. An accompanist
will be provided for the auditions.

strives to break into show business.
The graduate travels to New York,
which serves as the show’s setting, where
- 1 he encounters the show business people
of Tin Pan Alley. When asked by agents
to give an example of his talent, the

for the nineteen parts available.

“Since Wynn is an alumnus, he wanted
to do a reading here,” Gordon stated.

So will Washington and Lee be the
next big thing on Broadway?

“That’s the hope.” Gordon chuckled.

“Wynn is the class of ‘34 and he really
loves this place.”

i Wynn has been composing music for
the stage since the 1940’s, including songs
for the Broadway smash hit Five Guys
Named Moe.

U. of Virginia speaker to give address on AIDS

states Susan McMurray, the Ad-
ministrative Director of LIFE.
“I think this program will
bring the AIDS virus a little
closer to home.”
Carol Johnson, a health edu-
cator at the University of Rich-
mond, will place the audi-
ence in interactive,

. 3 BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI STAFF WRITER

A Biblical proverb tells us

3 that we must walk in our

neighbor’s shoes in order to

truly empathize with his
situation. The experience

allows one to omit

 
  
 
 

  

prejudice and role playing revelations. It tumsout that she’sreallya govemmentassassin
forge: judge- s i t u at i o n s named Charlie Baltimore (what kind of Charlie girl are you?)
ment. 4 c o n c e ri II g who works for "The Chapter,” a supersecret agency so super-
“A Walk ry  AIDS. secret its director meets with the President in the White House
in My , «  “ T h e kitchen.The president inthis alternate universeis R..l . Hacker,
shoes,” an if!  audience the arms dealer from l995’s Canadian Bacon, now invested
interactive \{_\\i A}  be  real POWCI’.
P I 0 g r a m \r\ A t 0 put in the Anyway, as Charlie tries to surface and reclaim her old
about A1135 5‘ ‘ ,  ' _  place of glamorous life of fakey bleached hair and killing people, she
sponsored by the .  53:9,): V , . someone who encounters Lyman Collier (Brian Cox) of this year’s Chain
health education  ,_ . I had the AIDS vi- :.Reaction, stiII.up.to_his old oorrupttstunts-. He’s offed pretty
group Lifestyle Infor- /<}1i.(,lf_pt;{/‘T rus,” says :2 quickly‘, presumably meaning» we’ll.*have abundant clean .

mation for Everyone
(LIFE), aims to put students in
the shoes of someone with the
virus.

“As far as the infirmary
knows, no one at Washington
and Lee has AIDS, though
chances are someone might,”

   
 
 
   

McMurray.

People in these role-playing
situations will have to make de-
cisions which victims of the
AIDS virus would have to make.

“I think that this will give the
students more of an idea of what
it’s like to have AIDS or to know

someone who has AIDS. I also
think that it will make students
think about their behavior and be held on Monday, November

The circle of LIFE:
W&L LIFE helps students make educated lifestyle decisions.

lifestyle choices.”

“A Walk in My Shoes” will

Photo courtesy of W&L LIF

11, at the Gaines Gatehouse at
7:30 p.m. The public is invited
to attend.

W&L students destined for Oxford

BY B. J. WALKER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee provides many unique opportu-
nities to undergrads. Perhaps the most prestigious is the

Oxford exchange program.

Each year a committee chaired by professor Leonard
Jarrard of Psychology selects one sophomore to spend
their junior year studying at University College at
Oxford University. The application process involves
two recommendations, and essay, and interview. The
committee evaluates those who have applied on a vari-
ety of criteria: intellectual curiosity, ﬂuency in speak-
ing and writing, diligence, and ability to complete W&L
graduation requirements by their senior year.

“Each year about six or seven people apply,” said
Jarrard, but only one can be chosen. The program
originated as an exchange program for faculty. Set up
by Jarrard and then President Huntly, the original pro-
gram allowed W&L faculty member to spend a year in
Oxford. The program was expanded to include students

several years ago by professor emeritus William Watt.

It is speciﬁcally designed for a third year W&L student.
“Because of their graduation requirements, the per-

    

Photo by Chris Andrews

Oxford's Radcliffe Quad:

TheOxford exchange program offers
students a scenic setting to study.

Lexington for sale

BY KELLEY TOTTEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

The object of the game is to own Lexing-
ton.

The Lexington Sunrise Rotary Club cre-
ated the game, “Wheeler Dealer,” under the
premise of the board game “Monopoly.”

There is no Boardwalk or Park Place
equivalent, but players can purchase local
businesses, doctors’ and dentists’ offices,
Lee Chapel, Virginia Military Institute and
other Lexington landmarks.

Local shops and Rotary members will
sell the game, due out in December, for $10.

Half of the proceeds will benefit child-
hood disease prevention, dental care, and
teen pregnancy prevention in the county.

The remaining funds will go to Rotary‘

International, which serves humanitarian

charities.

“We had a presentation from a local
community health official who said there
are lots of things they could be doing, but
that they just don’t have the money,” said
organizer Lori Sadler.

“We say this as a great way to help those
programs.”

The game has had a great response from
the community, Sadler said, and there are
only ten spaces left. Corner spots on the
board sell for $500 and the other spaces sell
for $250.

Companies are purchasing spots as a
way to combine advertising expenses with
a charitable donation, Sadler said.

The club is hoping to sell 1,000 games,
creating a profit of $10,000.

“They’d be great gifts for any occasion,”
said Sadler,. “I think it’sjust a great souve-
nir of Lexington.”

said Jarrard.

really all nice.”

1

BY JAMES SAMMONS
PHI STAFF WRITER

There is a college graduate
among the students this year
at Washington and Lee
University. '

Guy Molyneux is an ex-
change student participatingin
the Oxford Exchange Program.

He heralds from a small
farmhouse five miles from
Worcester, England, and has
earned a geology degree (a 2-
1 specifically) from Oxford
University.

“A comparison between the
two schools is really difficult
to assess,” said Guy.

“At Oxford, the exam sys-
tem is slightly different. I

son they send over here is usually a recent graduate,”

While at Oxford, those selected are considered full
members of the University. Students are assigned the
same tutors and live in the same housing as the
British students.

“The place I lived was cold and tiny,” said Bunny
Wong, last year’s representative. “But the people are

Oxford’s sports teams are also open to the W&L
students. “I was on the rowing team,” said Wong. ‘‘It
was really fun.”

One W&L student became somewhat of a hero four
years ago. A member of W&L’s women’s soccer team
was selected and played on the Oxford team. In the
game against their arch-rival, Cambridge, she scored
the winning goal.

“I think they were glad she was there,” said Jarrard.

The unique Oxford schedule allows students the
time to explore Britain and Europe. Classes start in
October and continue until June. The academic year is
divided into three eight week class periods with five
week breaks in between.

Please see oxronn, pg. 5

 

energy in the foreseeable future, whether Keanu signs for the
sequel or not. He’s murdered by the fella Charlie was sup-
posed to hit before her amnesia, code name Daedalus, who is
really Dr. Peters of last year’s Twelve Monkeys. He’s joined
forces with The Chapter so they can keep getting their fund-
ing, and he works with the father of Davis’s mystery daughter,
' who is played by Jean-Claude Van Damme, who apparently
has been working hard on getting rid of his accent. Nice work,

Jean-Claude_. .
So now, In addition to trying to save the world and kill

people, Davis has to foil the big plan to stage a terrorist attack
so The Chapter can keep its funding, and save her daughter
who has been kidnapped by Jean-Claude Van Damme. Any-
body wanna take bets if she can do it, especially with Jules
Winnfield as backup?

The whole movie is basically a backdrop for screenwriter
Shane Black and director Renny Harlin’s grand, brutal wet
dream of brutalizing women and then looking lovingly at the
scars inflicted. Geena Davis plays right along, staring myste-
riously at her bruises in big mirrors and saying, “Sometimes
I stand and stare at my scars and wonder where they came
from.” If you don’t puke, you might be Renny Harlin or a
fourteen-year-old ADD-afflicted, Mortal Kombat-addicted
slackjaw with just maybe one too many porn magazines under
your mattress. Lots of children get threatened with guns and
bombs, as well, so if you think that sounds like fun, this
winner’s for you, too.

To sum up, people may tell you that there’s some good
dialogue (there is, but only about eight lines’ worth, and it’s
so spread out and disconnected that you look at your watch‘
waiting for one, or, like, a big explosion), and some people
might tell you there’s some good action (there’s about ﬁve
minutes’ worth an hour and fifteen minutes in), but overall,
this is the worst movie of the year, worse even than The Crow:
City of Angels, and that's saying a mouthful.

W&L enrollment

Englishman enjoys

think about 85% of my grade
was based on my final exam.

“Around Christmas time”

you have to decide between
jobs, grad schools, and pre-
pare for the exams.

“There aren’t many exchange
programs, and it seemed it
would provide me with an
interesting year.”

Unlike W&L, Oxford is not
a “liberal arts” institution, so
without “gen—eds” to worry
about a degree would be far
more intense in a certain
subject.

How work is given out is
also very different.

“I attended lectures about
fifteen hours a week for geol-
ogy.

“Ithen wenttoatutorialfor

one to two hours, where I was
given reading assignments and
a paper of about five to eight
pages for each week.

“The tutorials are one or
two students and a tutor, so
they are pretty intense.

“At Oxford you get all your
work in one fell swoop instead
of a trickle, so there is quite a
lot of pressure.”

There are no fraternities at
Oxford, but there are not too
many social differences.

“ Oxford is cliquey, but it is
not an organized cliquishness
as opposed to fraternities.”

And as for drinking?

“Well, we have a college
bar....”

Guy has spen some time in
the States before. He has vis-

ited many sites of interest in the
West, such as the Grand Canyon
and Death Valley.

He also visited quite a few
cities, including Cincinnati
and New Orleans last summer.

.As for plans after W&L, “I
want to see more of America.
I'd really like to drive coast to
coast, then probably go to grad
school back in England.
“That’s more probable than a
job. Most jobs require a de-
gree, as in the United States.”

Guy expressed his pleasure
with Washington and Lee
University.

‘‘I’m really enjoying it
here, and would recommend it
to almost anybody.

‘‘I think travel is an important
thing.”

 

  

..-...,..-.....=...---_....-....................---..«.--—~ . — .. ..-- a-..

PAGE 4

N Ews

W&L’s landmark receives
1.5 million for renovations

BY KATHERINE MAYURNIK
PHI STAFF WRITER

Lee Chapel, “the Shrine of the South,” will undergo an
estimated 1.5 million dollar renovation within the next
year, thanks to an anonymous 1 million dollar donation and
a matching grant from class of 1941 alum Jack Warner.
Another 1 million dollar endowment and alumni support
will maintain the chapel’s continuing operation.

Other than a project to improve the air conditioning
system, the renovation will be limited to the museum in the
chapel basement. In order to preserve the University’s
valuable painting collection, a sophisticated cooling sys-
tem will be installed to closely control the temperature and
humidity. The museum collection includes the Peale
portrait of George Washington, the Pine Portrait of Robert
E. Lee, and the Washington/Custis/Lee Collection.

According to Thomas V. Litzenburg Jr. ’57, director of
the Reeves Center and a former editor of the Ring Tum Phi,
the paintings underwent restoration in the late 1960’s and
the early ]970’s, and although they are presently in good
condition, the new system will preserve them more effec-
tivel .

“Our highest priority is to create a museum level quality
environment for the University’s greatest treasures,” says
Litzenburg. “A lot of money spent on the project won’t be
seen, as we take on the critical task of improving the
environment in the entire building.”

According to the Lee Chapel Director Robert C. Peniston,
the museum will be thoroughly renovated to include “state
of the art displays,” conveying a new storyline which
Peniston says will “speak to the heritage of George
Washington, Robert E. Lee, and the history of the Univer-
sity.” The story line entailed three years of research by the
special collections committee, headed by Mr. Litzenburg.
Other members include author Mary Coulling (The Lee
Girls), Mr. Peniston, and Washington and Lee historians

i Taylor Sanders and Holt Merchant.

The story line will weave together the stories of three
great families of Virginia and our institution,” says
Litzenburg. “The three families, the Washingtons, the

 Custis’, and the Lees are remarkably related to each other.

The history of the institution covers much of the history of
the families. History itself unfolds naturally to give prin-
ciple focus to Robert E. Lee.”

Renovation downstairs also includes a handicapped
access to the museum near Traveller’s gravesite, new
restrooms, and an improved security system. Although

Photo by Mark Slomiany

The picturesque Lee Chapel, with over 55,000
visitors per year, is the most popular tourist
spot in Lexington.

Lee's office will remain in its current location, his original
burial site, characterized by a plaque in the center of the
museum ﬂoor, will be highlighted in the plan.

Lee Chapel hosts nearly 55,00 visitors per year and is
often a site for weddings, even with the absence of a center
isle. Like most of the traditions at W&L, Lee Chapel has
witnessed little change throughout the years. A section was
added in 1883 with a monument to Lee and the recumbent
statue of General Lee by Edward Valentine. Lee’s remains
were removed at that time from beneath the chapel to the
crypt where his parents, wife, seven children, and other
family members were laid to rest. The lastest renovations
took place in 1963 with a generous gift of $370,000 from
the Ford Motor Company.

The Ring-tum Phi, NOVEMBER 8, 1996

I-IAZING. from pg. 1

unaware of the problem. He asked his Management 101
and International Trade classes, “Do we have a hazing
problem on campus?”

A few students nodded their heads yes, while the
majority said no. “A number said we are no worse than
anyone else,” Anderson stated.

He followed by asking, “Is ourcommunity open enough
that if someone felt strongly enough about it, they could
step forward and say something?” Nearly all of the
students who spoke up said yes.

Anderson was troubled by the response of his classes.
“What I find disturbing is that most of the class believes
our community is open enough to tolerate dissent on the
question of hazing, yet none of those students who nodded
their heads were willing to speak up, and I am left wonder-
ing why.”

Prof. Anderson is not the only member of the W&L
community to be troubled by the article and its implica-
tions. Freshman Romy Rosenbaum said, ‘‘It makes me
really upset that my classmates would let this be done to
them, and then turn around and do it themselves.”

Obviously, the University has been disturbed by the
New York Times piece on hazing. “The article, without
a doubt, is not good for the University or for our Greek
system,” said Mazzarelli. “But one positive effect that will
come out of it is that it will bring to the attention of all the
Greek males the severity of the situation.”

Dean Atkins echoed Mazzarelli’s sentiments. “I hope
that the positive impact of the article will be that fraterni-
ties will realize how bad this really looks— That no matter
what kind of perverse attaehement they have for [hazing],
they will take the lead and say they will not allow guys who
are going to do that to remain in their fraternities. That it
is totally unacceptable.”

The SAC’s proposed policy has been distributed to the
faculty and will be voted on at December faculty meeting.
If passed, “The bottom line is that the choice [to haze] is up
to each person who is Greek,” said Mazzarelli. “If you take
the chance, you won ’t be able to hide behind your house.”

VANDALISM. from pg. 1

According to their Statement of Belief, a standard of
behavior is inherent in the University’s dedication to
honor, and students are bound to this standard just as they
are bound to the Honor System.

“I feel strongly that vandalism shows disrespect for
personal or university property and that under our new
constitution, the focus is on respect for others as the corner
stone of student conduct,” said Covington.

Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life, Dennis Man-
ning, believes the student sanctioned SCC allows students
to send an important message to other students— that
vandalism will not be tolerated in any fomr. “The policy
is much more meaningful when it is inforced by students’
peers.” »

New Cable 2 show ‘Singles-Out’ students

BY C.E. MILLER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Cable channel two will be a little spunkier, a little lively
and a Iittler lovelier. “Singled Out” Washington and Lee-
style will begin to air this Wednesday, Nov. 13.

Junior Omar Vannoy and Freshman Lora Ellison will
be producing the show. The two came up with the idea after
they met at an introductory meeting for Cable 2.

“I thought it was a shame that the school had all this
equipment and nobody was using it for anything,” said
Ellison. “I wanted to do a show or something, and Omar
and I came up with idea of reproducing “Singled Out” for
Washington and Lee.”

The show will be almost identical to that on MTV, but
instead of 50 single men and women there will be around
30.

“That’s all the room will really hold,” said Ellison.
“Fifty would be stretching it a bit.”

The concept behind “Singled Out” is that there is one
female and one male trying to ﬁnd a match from the pool
of 30 contestants. The contestants are eliminated on the
basis of categories. such as Body Hair, Chest Size, Lip
Size, Party Attitudes, etc.

After the pool has been narrowed down to a manageable

JUSl“WHENYOU’IHOUGH1"
YOUWERESAFE ..

Environmental Analyst
Teachers and Coaches
Reinsurance Analysts
Canvass Directors
Research Assistants
Financial Planner

. . .and many more!

VISIT THOSE CRAZH
F 01./(5 A T TH-E CDPO
F OR MORE
I NF ORMA TION.

number, the male or female doing the picking whittles the
remaining few down to three by eliminating the others
through humiliating tricks.

Finally, the last round consists of the final three
contestants who choose one of two answers to a preset
question. Iftheiranswermatches
the individual’s, they advance.
The ﬁrst contestant into the circle
wins.

Okay, if all that confused you,
check out the show on MTV; it is
a lot easier to watch than to ex-
plain.

Auditions for hosts were held
last night. The male host will be
Paul Hourigan’98 and the female
hostwill be Meagan Johnson ’98.
The producers were looking for
two hosts like Jenny McCarthy
and Chris Hardwick from the
MTV version.

“We weren’t looking for a Jenny McCarthy body
double,” said Vannoy.“Wewanted someone whois spunky,
spontaneous and looks good on camera.”

The show will be ﬁlmed this Sunday, Nov. 10 at 2 p.m.
According to Vannoy, there isn’t time to do more than one

 

take, so the host needs to be able to go through the show
without doing a lot of stuff over.

Ellison and Vannoy stress the need for participants. The
show needs 30 single guys and 30 single girls to partici-
pate. A freshman girl and a senior guy have agreed to be

the firstsingled-outcontestants.
“The girl is pretty and the_
guy isreallywitty,” Ellison said.

The winners will be given a

gift certificate for a dinner at
one of the restaurants in town.

Anyone interested in help-
ing out with “Singled-Out” is
encouraged to contact Vannoy
or Ellison.

“We need lots of people for
this show to work,” Ellison said.
‘‘If you don’t want to be a con-
testant, we need people to work
behind-the-scenes too.”

The last game show to air on Cable 2 was “The
Washington and Lee Dating Game,” hosted and produced
by Chris Albert ’95. It was similar to “Singled-Out” in that
it sent couples on dates, but it followed the format of “The
Dating Game.” It was successful and many students
participated.

MCDOWELL, from pg. 1

pests. McDowell was assigned to the story. Later that
afternoon, he returned to the newsroom with his copy. The
dateline read: Somewhere in Capitol Square with the
Govemor’s Squirrel Expedition. Everyone loved it, and
McDowell’s reputation ﬂourished.

Mudd said it was a common morning experience to hear
the familiar chatter of “Did you read Charlie?” It seemed
like everyone read Charlie McDowell. When the Times-
Dispatch sent reporters to the national political conven-
tions, McDowell was always among them. He once
befriended a bell-hop at the 1952 Republican Convention
in Chicago so that he could make his way into the kitchen
where party leaders were directing the show. The series
entitled “Keep it Clean” was typical McDowell — infor-
mative and compelling, yet stylish and readable.

“He had this way of relating what was happening to the
reader in a simple and direct way,” said Mudd. “He’s been
recognized because he’s a steady hand. His sharp eye and
gentle humor have not succumbed to the blandishments of
Washington’s elite.”

McDowell grew up and developed his trademark sense
of humor here in Lexington, Virginia. He loves to tell the
story of a zoology professor who paid him $10 to place the
department's skeleton of a dog next to the skeleton of
Traveller, which used to be on display in the Lee House
garage. When confused tourists would inquire about the
smaller set of bones, McDowell would chime up, “That
was Traveller as a pony.”

Once hewas enrolled at Washington and Lee, McDowell
played on the basketball team. As he was an unusually tall
and lanky kid, his uniform had a way of falling off his
shoulders and exposing his pasty white belly. To remedy
the problem, McDowell used to tape his shirt up so as to
secure it upon his torso. When his name was called during
the team’s introduction to the fans, McDowell would run
out of the locker room and onto the court where invariably
the tape job would come undone. The shirt would fall to its
usual length and he would be exposed much to the crowd’s
delight.

Although McDowell formally resigned from the Times-
Dispatch in 1992, he continues to contribute special assign-
ments and write a Sunday column. He can also be seen on
PBS program “Washington Week in Review.”

McDowell was recently quoted in the Times-Dispatch
where he said of his long and distinguished career, “It’s
been a good run, a darn good run.”

  
  
 

 

    
 

. . "3*Pg'- 1-. _ -1

n” stigation ﬁnds‘ no.evidence o g
e ther violations ofreg_,u1ati$>nS,»'g9Y¢r_i!
dgeshipjesfablished by the I nterfrateririty Con‘
I/P‘ hellenic Council or Student Oonductuﬁioin
olations of the rules of other stt:derit..t5rg_

g,h,ejiDirector‘of University Sectrri; ” 

 
    
    
     
   
   
 

 
   

e new members of fraternity and soro ,
' tively and: for sanctioningjiiicha; ‘ '
ose rules; ='I7lre?Student, Conduct; H
nsible‘. forfreiviewing cases_foffothe
ins and for sanctioning these or
 students» when appropriate
‘e investigation finds evidenceof *
ra rnity~Council/Panhellenic:  V
on ue’tCommittee;wi1I‘suspentiinrn: j _
ndefi1_1itely”'~al1 activities related to pledgeshi p
member program. The Director of .UI1iV.er_si.t
ityiwiil submit his report tothe _St'r1d,ent1;Affairs.
itteej HearingBoard with a chargertoconduc
s._for« those students who are'Tsubject7toLdisci
ction. The ‘SAC He_aring’,j,Board
d*of ﬁve¥»student‘me_mbers of,'_the»_ d
Committee}-4 President of the;St.u'dent, Con
mmittec, Head Dormitory Cou'nse1or,-> Presi
Student_,Bar Association, President of th‘

ity; Council, ‘and Presiijdenr .

 
   
    
 
  
   
 

  
    
    

    
   
   
    

 

    

CDPO Presents
a Discussion  
of Careers
in Advertising

Tl.JlESdl/AXV/,
‘ l 97
7 p.M. UN
N©R2:riaLN

Arid DTGRH U 

 QVE M b: E R

INFORMAL
NETWORKING
AND
REFRESHMENTS
FOLLOWING

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi,

NOVEMBER 8, 1996

SPORTS / FEATURES

 
 
      
     

» Cinnamonlbast, Lucky Charms,
Golden Grahams

.9350,

1214 Oz.

GeneralMil1sCereal

Harris Teeter

sate Begins Wednesday, October 15, 1995
    Mt. Dew, Diet Pepsi or

P€P91

Han-isTeeter
, P .I
Drinks

° 10 roucues mews:

        
  

\

I
\ If‘

\

  

 

Eadie


l W\

493

Remember,

 

We Have All Of Your School
and Dorm Supply Needs.
Notebooks, Pens, Pencils

 

     
 
   
 
  
   
 
  

Carving’ Bo la
LunchMe§is

I9

55 .

  

FOOTBALL. from pg. 8

While Emory & Henry’s thoughts will
be squarely on winning the title, Miriello
said the Generals will concentrate more
on playing well than discussing the mag-
nitude of the game.

‘‘It would be a tremendous victory if
we won,” he said. “It’s going to take a
monumental effort to do it. lt’s not going
to be easy for us.”

The Generals will need to move the
ball better and not depend as much on
turnovers, since according to Miriello,
the Wasps do not make many mistakes.

In fact, the Wasps’ game plan will be
pretty simple.

“They’re gonna try to run the ball
down our throats,” Miriello said. “This
game is not wearing on their minds. I
hope they come in overconfident.”

But at least the Generals seem to be
catching Emory & Henry at the right
time. This will be the first time since

1978 that the two teams did not meet in
September, a month in which the Gener-
als have gone 1-6-1 over the last three
years. In October and November the last
three years, however, W&L has a record
of 13-5.

The same trend of gaining momen-
tum late in the season has held this year,

PAGE 5

    

Photo by Julien Williams

The Generals celebrate a defensive stop. The defense came u
huge for W&L Saturday as it held Bridgewater to 17 5 total yar .

since the Generals have won three straight
to nullify a 1-4 start.

The football team’s slow starts and
fast ﬁnishes are largely dependent on the
schedule and the many new faces in the
lineup early each season, Miriello said.

“The first half of the the schedule is
usually more difficult,” he said. ‘‘In the

second half, we’re playing schools some-
what similar to ourselves.”

No matter how they got to this point,
the Generals have a chance of upsetting
Emory & Henry this Saturday and possi-
bly capturing a league title. Considering
their 1-4 start this year, a chance is all the
Generals could ask for.

OXFORD‘.

W&L’s tuition.

arships are transferable.

interests you,” said

from pg. 3 —

“I was able to go to
Ireland, France, and
Switzerland,” said
Wong.

“I had a great oppor-
tunity to travel.”

‘‘It is so expensive to
live over there,” said
Wong. Students pay the
Oxford “fees”, which are
roughly equivalent to

“It all works out
though because the fees
there are usually less [de-
pending on the exchange
rate] than the tuition
here. It is a public school,
so they get money from
the government.”

The students receive
a $2,000 grant from the
school to help with trans-
portation and personal
expenses. Also, all schol-

' “That makes iteasier
for those receiving aid to
go,” said Jarrard.

Each eightlweek pe-
riod, the student is as-
signed to a tutor. The
students‘ tutors serve as
an one-on-o,n_e teacher,
helping to specialize the
skills in aparticular
field of study.

“lt’s no problem find-
ing a tutor in a field that

Wong.

If necessary, students
may be assigned to a tu-
tor in any of the
University’s 31 colleges.

“I’d say it’s a great
experience. l’d recom-
mend it to anyone,” said
Wong.

For more information
on the program, contact
Professor Jarrard in
Tucker 115.

At‘but'AthenSHarrisTeeter.

PﬁcesadOffersGoodMbdnesday,Ocwber16,Thzmigh1hesday,0cwberz2,1995
WeReserve'l'heRight'lbLimitQuam:ities. None Sold'I‘o Dealers

The Fling-tum Phi: ninety-nine years old
and we still come once a week.

 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

   
   
 
      
    
    
 
      
 

has placed copies of the

Student Life

Committee’s

Spring Survey

on library reserve at the Leyburn

and Law Libraries

Please feel free to read last

year’s analysis of student opinion.

  

 

  

PAGE 6

OPINION / ADVERTISING

Forcing both parties to the center

From the Right
' Jason Zacher ’98

The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor

Recently, G. Gordon Liddy said,
“Clinton’s ‘bridge to the 21st cen-
tury’ is a toll bridge, and we’re all
going to have to pay.”

Everyonebreakouttheirchange.

Election “96 is over, and,
not to anyone’s surprise, Bill
Clinton has been reelected.
However, to some people's sur-
prise, he still did not receive a
majority, just a plurality.
Clinton received 49.2% of the
vote, compared to 40.8% for
Dole, 8.5% for Perot, and 1%
for Ralph Nader.

Another surprise was that a
majority of women voted for

Clinton and a majority of men
voted for Dole. ABC said
that had never happened be-
fore--usually both sexes vote
for the winner, if by different
margins.

There were several impor-
tant ballot initiatives, and in
the biggest mass case of
schizophrenia everwitnessed,
California voted to legalize
marijuanaformedicinal purposes
and voted to end affirmative ac-
tion programs in the state.

Florida jumped on the
schizophrenia bandwagon
also, passing the initiative de-
signed to force the billionaire
sugar farmers to clean up pol-
lution in the Florida Ever-
glades, but did not pass the
one cent tax increase to help
pay for it. Florida also passed

an amendment to their consti-
tution calling for a two-thirds
majority for new taxes to be
written into their constitution,
designed to fight a movement
for a state income tax.

As ofThursday evening, the
Republicans look like they
will have a 55-45 majority in
the Senate, picking up two
seats (the still-contested Or-
egon race is being led by the
Republican candidate as of
4pm Thursday). The House is
still Republican also, but there
are six seats still outstanding.
The Missouri lndependent, Jo
Ann Emerson, will probably align
herself with the Republicans. The
38 seat majority they had in 1994
now stands at 19.

Does this send any kind of
mandate to Washington?

$5000 First Prize!

Develop an innovative Web applica-
tion help complanies in Virginia ex-
ploit the benefits from the new
Internet Economy. Win cash prizes
from $1000 to $5000.

For details, including contest rules
and entry forms, see our web site at
http:/ / www.cit.org/ and click on the

WWW Business Innovations

We Hanan Youl

Jﬁf

Contest icon.

You asked for it!
We’ve changed our menu to  
become “M EAL DE ”

Friendly!

We Heard You!
Beginning November 9th,

patrons with the 10 Meal

Plan, may now take __6_ of the
10 meals at any of our three

Dining Service locations.
(A change from 4 meals.)

  

Plainly spoken, no. The Wash-
ington politicians should see that
the American people want the
two parties to work together, and
since the last Congress got done
what they said they would, the
people might hold them to it this
time. A

Bill Clinton’s next term will
be interesting to watch. The
“egomaniacal” President
Clinton, as Senior Mark Tobias
so eloquently stated, has done
everything in the hopes of get-
ting re-elected. Now what? He has
no election to work for, so he is
reportedly going to set his sights on
“writing his name in the history
books.” Some of his advisors have
said he will turn to the international
arena, which should frighten
America and our allies.

Luckily, there will be a new
Secretary of State. Warren
Christopher is resigning, along
with Transportation Secretary
Fredrico Pena, Energy Secretary
Hazel O’Leary, Commerce Sec-
retary Micky Kantor, and De-

fense Secretary William Perry. »

Others are rumored to be on
Clinton’s chopping block, and
Republicans may fill a few of
the spots.

One thing we will see is Vice-
President Al Gore’s emergence
in national affairs. Clinton
wants to prep him for Gore’s “A
new tree in every yard and an
electric car in every driveway”
campaign in the year 2000. We
may see America taking another
shift right.

The election has told us that
the country is actually moder-
ate. I truly hope we can have
bipartisan rule for the next four
years.

But I'm not holding my
breath.

Editor’s note: Starting this
week, Laura Knapp ‘s "From the
Left, ” will be alternating with
the “From the Right” column.
Knapp ‘s election response can
be read next week.

GHQ Bistro 2000

The Ring-tum Phi,

Got a great idea for
a column?

Want to see your name
in print?

Want to tell the world
about your opinions?

Do you have an ego the
size of Bill Clinton’s?

Then Write for the Phi.’

Send an example of your column
to:

The Ring-tum Phi
University Center

Or e-mail them to:
j zacher@Wlu.edu

Qﬂmnmd 

November 12 at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women’s Center in the University Center

_adoM%mmﬂa'lhe ymn.

 

Register for prizes to be

  

Potato Shellsﬂlledwithmoundsof
CheddarCJieme,Cnm$ledBaoon,
SourCi~eam,andCl1iveaw/beverage.

1/4 lb. Burger, wlcheeae,
Chips w/beverage.

Fxiedchicken Brenton Bun, Chips w/beverage.
Bacon, Lettuce & Tomato, Chips w/beverage.
Pork Bar-be-que,C1hipsw/beverage
Calzonea, Cheeae,Pepperoni, Sausage,

Ve3gie&Ham.C1tipsw/beverage.

Pizza Meal Deal, Qioeof Pizza, 1 trip to

salad barw/beveray

"All youcane toeat" Buffet specials, p
suchasPasta&BakedPotatoBar
withbevera .0neSwi .

MEAL DEAL*

Specials plus beverage available

for one swipe.

 
   
       
     
 
     
   

given away. . .
Grand Prize-Mt. Bike.
Drawing on Wednesday,
Nov. 13 at Dinner Meal. 0

    
    
 
 
  

   
   
  
 
 

SPECIALS FOR THREE
BIG DAYS . . .

Monday, Nov. 11 —-—-
Complimentary Apple Crisp
Dessert with each noon and
dinner meal purchase.

Tuesday, Nov. 12 —-
Complimentary Yogurt cone
with each noon and dinner meal
purchase.

I Wednesday, Nov, 13 —— _
Complimentary ﬂaming cherries

Jubilee dessert with each noon
and dinner meal purchase.

 

NOVEMBER 8, 1996

 

The Ring-tum Phi, NOVEMBER 8, 1996 ADVERTISING PAGE 7

Student Body Notice
11/5/96

On November 5, the SCC found a sophomore
* male guilty of petty vandalism during Fall Term

       
  
  

      
   
    
   
   

. . . MQ NAME IS
cl d th f II It : B“T5V5R<‘5°P‘r‘
an impose e O owing pena |eS  CALLS M5

JAeeeizMi=.isi’£RISI... "WWN B09.“

  

1. Letter of apology to dormitory hall" involved

F 2.Conduct Probation for the remainder of the
academic term.

@1995 Giimmy inc.
Disl. by Tribune Media Services, inc
L}

On November 5, the SCC found four sophomore @é c;Rg,i\1-,,,5u-i-CAN l
males guilty of vandalism during Fall Term 1996 § Q 0 
and imposed the following penalties: 9 WW QOUR FOOT?
‘ 1.Letter ofapology to the housemother and W . = ?‘ "ii
.‘ Buildings and Grounds 5‘

    

  
    
 

2. Social Probation for the remainder of the 

WHICH IS WHAT

you CAN FOOL F \
some OF THE PEOPLE -\

     
    

       
       
    
           
 
    
 
 
   
     
   

    

  

M/\. AND you CAN -. 
. academic term_  ALL or THE TIME... ‘ﬁg? ALQESMAEEE E 
i .5
. 3. Payment of 150% of damages and clean—up to    E
. . . . - - .13’; ‘L7 i \ -
be equally distributed among the four individuals.  F sg ”4v.—.;_

   

‘ 4. 15 hours of community service to be completed - -
by the end of Winter Term for one individual; 10 -4 S‘: y,:’. SOMEGREA1-MASTERS"!
, hours of community service to be completed by ‘ "'P*:g143U‘§Zil‘T5VEMHAvEgN_E
the end of Winter Term for the other three OFTHER V05.
individuals. *2

    
  

          
 

WHEN Vii?
GIRL SCOUTS

STARTLEARN/N9
TAE KWW V0 ,7

  

”’r/

  
 

\

/

V
N    WK! KEEYI y/
in TIME... \‘:- .  — l

0 ‘ 9

’Jl995 Giimmy Inc.
Dist by Tribune Media Services Inc

The Freshest 7;’. ’.‘.’,L‘.’,’,‘’.,",”
Place In Town Ms. coombs.

We bake our bread FRESH everyday. M 5- Grant:

Our veggies are sliced FRESH everyday.
Your sub is made FRESH right before your eyes. Mr' Wadlow’
M r. Za ch er,

   
   
     
      
      
    

 
 

Virgil/iia’e Own N

‘f     i  sewing Mr.BaIsIey,
oirn l\/oConrracl< Bard  l   Ms_E|/ying,

' .  : Ms. Bauman,
Mr. Bookwalter,
Mr.SIomiany

and
Mr. Coffee
onafirst

name basis

November 8, 1996

in the GHQ
9:30 P.M.

Sponsored by the Fridays! Committee

      

FREE ADMISSION

453 E. Nelson St. Write for
Lexington, VA

463-3322 the phi

 

'(‘\

 

W. 13-15. 15-12. I5-17.15-I3. 15-12 vs. Gullford ’

CR085 Couirrn - Sat. in South regional championship on co
ou um-In - Women lst. Men 2nd at ODAC Championships

at Mary Washington (M&W)

-1
I C 0 ~ . 9 ,
.
Generals In action this week. I B I  I Last week s results: I
F001-uiu. - Sat. vs. Emory & Henry. 1:30 pm. . . F°°""""" ' w- 2443- 3' Bﬂdgewatq
Msoocn - Today vs. Roanoke in ODAC tournament Msoocn - L. 3-1. vs. Virginia Wesl _, I.
semiﬂnals at Roanoke W. 2-0. vs. Randolph-Macon in ODAC quarterﬁnal
Vou.xnAI.I. - Today vs. Randolph-Macon in ODAC wsoocn _ L 2_o vs Roanoke In ODAC semiﬁnals
tournament quarterﬁnals at Emory & Henry V ' ' '

PAGE 8 FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY NOVEMBER 8, 1996

Cross country teams perform solidly at ODACs

Men fall short
ofthird straight

BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER
PHI SPORTS EI)rroR

It just wasn’t to be this year
for the men’s cross country
squad.

The Generals were looking
for their third straight ODAC
title in Lynchburg Saturday, but
they were halted by the host
Hornets. Lynchburg captured
its first title since 1993 with a
total of 27 points, while W&L
earned runner—up honors with
45 points, ahead of third-place
ROanOke’s 57. The Hornets had
five of the top ten ﬁnishers.

Junior Will Olson ran a ter-
rific race, finishing second be-

hind Lynchburg’s Jeff Conant
in a time of 27:11.42. Junior
Jason Callen was not far behind
as he pulled into fifth place with
his 27:21 .92. Olson and Callen’s
outstanding performances
earned them each All-ODAC
honors.

Junior Taylor Shultz also
placed in the top-ten, as he
crossed the line in ninth with his
time of 28:00.54. Sophomore
Darrick Alford came in 12th in
28:26.26 and sophomore
Stephen Guenther placed 17th
in 28:49.06.

The Generals may not have
defended their title successfully
in Lynchburg, but they will be
back in title-defense mode again
this weekend when they com-
pete in the Division III South
regionals at Mary Washington.
The men snared the regional title
last year in Memphis.

Publicity Photo

Nat Messmore charges down a tree-lined path. The
senior dashed into third place Saturday, helping

Women capture fourth title in five years

BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

Carson Flowers has quickly
proved that there is life. after
Josephine Schaeffer.

“No one will ever be
.losephine,” Flowers said.

But one would not have been
able to tell much difference at
Saturday’s ODAC Champion-
ships in Lynchburg. In
Schaeffer-like fashion, Flowers
won the women’s cross country
race and boosted the team to its
fourth title in five years.

While Flowers has been in
the league’s top echelon of run-
ners all season, she surprised
even herself in her performances
this year as well as her leader-
ship ability with Schaeffer hav-
ing graduated.

“I did not know prior to the
season if I would be able to step
in and lead the team,” she said.
“We had many excellent run-
ners returning, and I didn’t know
what the season would bring for
my teammates or myself.”

All it has brought is aconfer-
ence title and an ODAC Runner
of the Year award, respectively.

ored to be named the ODAC
Runner of the Year,” she said.

Flowers sealed the deal after
crossing the finish line Saturday
in 20:24.61, a startling 41 sec-
onds ahead of runner-up Shelli
Stevens of Roanoke. Nat
Messmore was right behind
Stevens in third place, as the
senior finished her ﬁnal ODAC
race in a time of 21:06.70.
Sophomore Lisa Brennan also
had a terrific race for the Gener-
als, placing sixth in 21:26.97.
The "performances of Flowers,
Messmore and Brennan earned
them All-ODAC awards.

Also placing well for the
Generals were sophomore
Natasha Dorofeeva in 11th posi-
tion and freshman Jenny Webb
in 12th place.

Despite running on
Lynchburg’s turf, the Generals
easily out-distanced the host
Hornets. W&L had 35 team
pointswhileLynchburgwaswell
behind with 60. Eastern Men-
nonite, Roanoke and Emory &
Henry finished third, fourth and
fifth, respectively.

“We were pretty confident
that we would be able to win
ODACs ifwe all ran hard,” Flow-

was Lynchburg College and we
had. beaten them before. They
have a very challenging course,
and we felt confident, due to our
training, that we could beat them
on their home course.”

The Generals will try to win
on an opponent’s turf once again
this weekend when they travel
to Fredericksburg to run in the
South regional championship at
Mary Washington College.

“We are really excited about
regionals this weekend,” Flow-
ers said. “I feel very confident
that the team will run well. A
few of us have aspirations for
nationals and we all hope to run
well enough to qualify.”

With yet another ODAC
championship in tow, the
women’s team will be placed in
the familiar position next year
of being the team to beat, just
like during the Schaeffer years.
But it is hard to bet against W&L
as Flowers and her teammates
plan to keep the ODAC crown in
Lexington for awhile.

“Next year we are hoping to
win the ODACs once again and
all run well and injury-free,” she
said. “I hope to continue run-
ning well and help our team keep
our ODAC title.”

the women’s team win the ODAC Championships.

Men’s soccer knocks off
R-MC in quarterfinals

Women ousted
in semifinals by
Roanoke, 2-0

BY JEREMY MCNAMEE
PHI STAFF WRITER

Sam Chase and Jamie Parker
e a c h
scored
second
half goals
to lead
Washing-
ton and
Lee past
Randolph-
Macon 2-
0 in the
quarterﬁnal
round of
the ODAC men’s soccer tourna-
ment Tuesday.

 

W&L will now meet regular
season champion Roanoke in the
semifinals Friday afternoon.

The victory improves W&L’s
record to 11-5, tying the school
record for wins set in 1986.

After a scoreless first half,
Chase gave the Generals a 1-0
lead just over five minutes into
the second half off an assist from
sophomore Mikel Parker.
Superfrosh Jamie Parker then
iced the game on a goal withjust
over six minutes remaining in
the contest.

The goal was Parker’s 19th
of the season, breaking the
school record of 18 set last year
by Chase.

Things then turned ugly in
the waning moments. A brawl
ensued, resulting in the ejection
of two Randolph-Macon play-
ers.

W&L sophomore goalie
Garry Hill made five saves to
record his third shutout of the

“I was very excited and hon-

season.

This marksthe Generals’ first
trip to the ODAC semifinals
since 1992. They are looking to
avenge a 3-1 regular season de-
feat at the hands of the Roanoke
Maroons.

Meanwhile, the women’s
soccer team ended its season on
a disappointing note, the victim
of a 2-0 upset to Roanoke in the
ODAC semifinals. Roanoke
scored a goal in each half for the
victory.

Despite the loss, the Gener-
als finished up the year with a
record of 12-5. The twelve vic-
tories set a new Washington and
Lee school record for wins in a
season.

Sophomore Karin Treese’s
18 goals tied the W&L record
for tallies in a season, set by
Erica Reineke in 1994.

Afterthis year’sstrongshow-
ing, expectations will be high
for next year’s squad.

ers said. “Our main competitor

 

Photo by Ron Bookwalter

Seth McKinley lunges over the goal line in a recent game. The
junior scored two touchdowns in W&L’s win at Bridgewater.

BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

It may have been ugly, but the Gener-
als will take the
win.

W a s h i n g t O n
and Lee and
Bridgewater com-
bined for 15 tum-
overs in their foot-
ball game Satur-
day, but the Gener-
als did more with
their opportunities
as they dumped the
host Eagles, 24-13.
The victory enabled the Generals to slide
into third place in the ODACwith their 4-
4 overall mark, 2-2 in the league.

 

“Sometimes it wasn’t very pretty with
the turnovers,” head coach Frank Miriello
said, “but it was a critical game for us to
get to .500.”

The Generals committed six of the
game’s 15 turnovers, many of which
Miriello said was caused by the wind and
the fact that W&L was experimenting
with some younger players. But consid-
eringthat Bridgewater, a perennial league
doormat, was coasting along at 4-3, 2-2
in the league this year, the Generals were
happy to escape with the win.

“Bridgewater is a really improved
team,” Miriello said. “They thought they
were going to smash us. We took it to
them- it was very, very satisfying.”

The Generals fell behind early when
Bridgewater’s Mario Webb scored on a
19-yard run to give the Eagles a 7-0 edge
in the first quarter. W&L turned the ball

back over to Bridgewater on the next
series, but the Eagles returned the favor
when W&L junior safety Lee Miller
picked off a pass and scampered 61 yards
all the way to the Bridgewater 4-yard
line. From there, junior Seth McKinley
grabbed a touchdown pass from senior
quarterback Brooks Fischer to knot the
score at 7.

Junior Matt Holbrook notched his sev-
enth ﬁeld goal of the season midway
through the second quarter when he con-
nected from 35 yards out to give the
Generals a 10-7 lead.

It remained that way until late in the
half when disaster struck again for
Bridgewater. Freshman Scott King
busted through to sack the Bridgewater
quarterback and caused a fumble that
was recovered by senior noseguard Neil
Kelleter on the Bridgewater 2. The Gen-
erals once again took full advantage of
the break when McKinley scored again
on a one-yard plunge to give W&L a 17-
7 advantage at halftime. '

Bridgewater looked to rally in the
second half, but the Generals’ defense
was not in the mood. Early in the third
quarter, junior linebacker Matt Luka
smashed the Bridgewater quarterback
from behind, forcing another fumble.
Defensive end Jack Boyd grabbed the
looseball and chugged 24 yards to paydirt,
giving the Generals a commanding 24-7
lead.

Boyd wreaked havoc on the Eagles’
offense all day as he also intercepted a
pass, broke up another one and made
three tackles. His brother McGuire led
the Generals with ten tackles on the after-
noon.

Sophomore Brad Baker and senior
Chris Watson also made interceptions to
facilitate the Generals’ stifling defensive
effort, whilejunior Omar Moneimjoined
King and Luka in the sack department.
The Generals defense held Bridgewater
to only 175 yards of total offense on the

Publicity Photo

Sam Chase prepares to head the ball. Chase scored
a goal in the Generals’ quarterﬁnal win Tuesday.

W&L capitalizes on Bridgewater mistakes

day. The Eagles also hurt themselves
with eight penalties.

After the teams slogged back and forth
for most of the second half, Bridgewater
scored an academic touchdown on a Von
Lewis touchdown catch with only 2:28
remaining in the game. The Eagles then
missed the PAT, making the ﬁnal margin
24-13, the same score as the Generals’
win last season.

While the W&L defense rose to the
occasion in Bridgewater, the offense
could not get going. The Generals had a
difficult time moving the ball all after-
noon, totalling a mere 132 yards of total
Offense, although they scored when it
counted. Fischer completed 12 of 19
passes for 75 yards, leaving him 60 yards
short of overtaking Phillip Sampson
(1986-89) as W&L’s all-time passing
leader. Fischer now has 4,389 yards
passing for his career.

The Generals could not get much of a
ground game going either Saturday.
Sophomore Floyd Young led the team
with 31 yards on 13 carries and McKinley
added 28 yards on 15 attempts. Senior
Jon Gardner was W&L’s leading receiver
as he caught three passes for 23 yards.

The key win on the road sets up an
interesting matchup this weekend in Lex-
ington when W&L and Emory & Henry
square off with, yes, the ODAC title on
the line. Emory & Henry would win its
third consecutive league championship
with a victory over the Generals. But if
the Generals prevail and second place
Randolph—Macon loses either to
Bridgewater this week or Hampden-
Sydney next week, W&L will capture its
first ODAC title since 1985.

One big problem though: Emory &
Henry has beaten W&L 13 straight times
dating back to 1982, including a 35-22
victory last year. E&H leads the all-time
series 19-6.

Please see FOOTBALL, pg. 5

 

