-~.r News 1-

,, Last Word

2
5
I Greenland 5
6

  

 

iﬂittg-tum Iﬂhi

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

 7 2
VOLUME 955, NUMBER 5

;. e. Levaulw unmav
wnsi-iuﬁrou at Ll! Lwuwsirv
Lexmmou. .

 3 01997

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No 7
Lexington, VA

MAY 26, 1997

INSIDE

FEATURES

    

Photo courtesy of Dr. Lambert

Professor Kenneth Lambert
seeks a “unique babysitter” to
interact with his autistic son
Caleb. The student would have
to learn about autism in order to
give Caleb a brighter future.

Theater of the absurd comes
to W&L when Professor
Dominica Radulescu’s French
theater class performs this week
in Lenfest’s Johnson Theater

SEE PAGE 3

OPINION

 

Despite the attempts Of lib-
erals Gephardt and Kennedy, all
is well in our Nation’s capital.
Jason Zacher recounts a politi-
cal miracle.

In addition to knowledge of
their majors, students learn a lot
in their four years at W&L.
Betsy Green helps you to re-

‘V memberjust what that is.

SO yOu’ve decided to sell
your soul. Kevin McManemin
tells you how to get the best re-
turn On your investment.

SEE PAGE 5

THE LAST WORD

“The Lost World promises a
plethora of scary dinosaurs,
witty one-liners from Jeff
Goldblum and less annoying
jerky people. The plot is cheesy,
but the dinosaurs, especially the
pterodactyls, make the movie
one of the best of the season.

I” Doug and Robin review a

new Inn’s food.

SEE PA GE 6

Gettin’ High

A competitor in the two-man outdoor volleyball
tournament gets up in the air last Saturday.

Photo by Hollister llo y/Photo Editou

 

IEDEX

2
Features 3
Opinion ‘ 5

6

wvvvv Sites
Reviews

Colonnade Club

 

PLEASE

W&L graduates look
to bright future

BY DOUGLAS BRowN &
ROBIN SEATON
PHI STAFF WRITERS

What does the future have in
store for you? For gradu
ating seniors the world is filled
with amazing opportunities and
scary realities.

At this time last year, 56 percent
of the 1996 graduating class were ei-
ther employed or accepted to gradu-
ate or professional schools. Six
months after graduation that number
rose to 97.3 percent.

“The job market is actively
seeking qualified college gradu-
ates at this time,” Amy Hitlin of
Career Development and Place-
ment said.

Although Career Development
has not finished compiling data
collected for the class of 97, they
expect the employment numbers
to be similar to those for the class
of ’96. g‘

“The trends have
stayed the same for
the past few years,”
Hitlin said.

For those begin-
ning graduate studies
next year, followed

One way to
enhance your
chances of
finding a job

edge on the competition.

“The ratios are better at top
programs,” Keen said. “One
way to enhance your chances of
finding ajob is to come from a
top program.”

This year a select group of
Washington and Lee students
has been accepted into out-
standing graduate programs.

Seniors Jason Shaffer and
Elizabeth Fritze will both at-
tend Yale in the fall. Shaffer
will be pursuing his Ph.D. in
British literature, and Fritze
will be working towards her
law degree.

“I still can’t believe they
took me,” Shaffer said.

When asked if there was any
chance ofromantic involvement
between the two soon—to—be
W&L alums, Fritze fervently
denied any possibility. Fritze
said she has already received
three marriage pro-
posals since deciding
to attend Yale Law,
and the earning poten-
tial of a English
graduate student just
is not comparable to
that ofa law student.

by academic careers’ is to Come SeniorEnglishmajor
competition in thejob from a top Susan Hall accepted a
market has become Fulbrightscholarshipto
increasingly stiff, As- prOgram° study in New Zealand.

sistant Professor of
English Suzanne
Keen said. “Numbers
collected by the Mod-
ern Language Association suggest
that 40% ofnewly—minted English
Ph.D.s are finding employment in
literature of some kind,” Keen
said.

Competition to get into these pro-
grams has also become greater as in-
stitutions ﬁght the “over-production
of Ph.D.s.” In an attempt to guaran-
tee a greater percentage of their
graduates a better chance in the job
market, many schools are reducing
the size of their graduate programs,
Keen said.

Law school graduates also “face
an employment market considerably
less robust than that ofthe ’80s,” ac-
cording to the U.S. News & World
Report website.

Despite these gloomy pros-
pects, many undergraduates still
opt to pursue higherjdegrees af-
ter graduation. Getting into the
top schools or programs in your
chosen field often provides an

VISIT

Suzanne Keen,
Professor of English

OUR

Hall will study the na-
tive literature, focusing
, 5 on the inﬂuence of Eu-
ropean colonization
on the literature of an indigenous
people. After her year-long
Fulbright experience, Hall plans
to attend graduate school in the
United States.

“It is a gorgeous place, amaz-
ingly beautiful; I am very excited
to be going!” Hall said.

For those without post—gradu—
ation plans, the Career Develop-
ment office will be open all sum-
mer for consultation. They en-
courage seniors planning on en-
tering the work force to leave their
resumes with the office for the
Resume Referral System.

CDPO is eager to help students
find their hiche in the work force
and suggest that an alumni print-
out can be very helpful for net-
working in almost any field.
Many additional resources are
available from their homepage at:
http://www.wlu.ea'u/~career/
h0me.htm/.

WEBSITE

Spending craze comes to halt

BY B.J. WALKER
PHI STAFF WRITER

There is no need to spend money
furiously in the Co—op anymore.

After weeks of confusion and
various proposals, the University
has reached a decision about what
will happen to the balance that re-
mains on students food debit ac-
counts. According to John Cuny,
Washington and Lee’s Associate
Treasurer and Controller of the
Business Office, any remaining
money will be transferred out ofthe
food debit account at the end of the
year and applied to the general debit
account. A refund check will then
be sent out for the balance.

By refunding the money, W&L is
violating Virginia law prohibiting re-
turning any money placed in such an
account. Technically, the money is in
a board plan account and thus not sub-
ject to the 8.5% state tax on food.

Originally, this was designed to
give the students a break, allowing
them to make food purchases with-
out having to pay the tax. In fact, the
contract students signed stated that,

“you also save 8.5% tax by partici-
pating In one ofthese programs.”

The problem arises from the fact
that funds in such a tax-free account
are not legally transferable to stu-
dents. If the W&L goes ahead with
the plan to give back the money, it
faces severe ﬁnes from the state.

The controversy over the account
arose when students began receiving
letters at the beginning of April indi-
cating that they had money left on
their card, in some cases hundreds of
dollars and that it must be used by the
end of May. Ifthey did not spend the
money, it would become property of
the university. To most students en-
rolled in the meal plan this news came
as a surprise.

“There was a small printing of in-
formation describing what would
happen to the money, but it wasn’t
publicized very well,” Cuny said. In
fact, the contract which students
signed at the beginning of the year
made no reference to the refund
policy. The only mention came in a
brochure sent along with the contract,
which some students claim to have
never seen.

“I think most students just as-
sumed that they would be getting a

refund or the money would be trans-
ferred to another of their accounts,”

Cuny said. Several students pro-
tested, saying it was unfair and
deceptive for the university not to
refund the money.

While the illegality of the refund
is certain, the administration insists
that the refund is the correct and
moral thing to do.

“Our decision was based on the
lack of communication,” Cuny said.
“We realize that most students were
unaware ofthe policy and would ap-
preciate getting their money back.
Wejust want to do what is right and
best for the students.”

For some students, however,
the announcement comes too late.
Several students have gone to ex-
treme measures to use up the re-
maining money on their cards be-
lieving that otherwise the money
would go to waste.

Sophomore Becca Harris was un-
aware that her parents had put sev-
eral hundred dollars on her card.

“I bought three cases of Snapple,
16 subs for a picnic, and I came home
everyday with enough M&M’s to ﬁll
a big bowl.”

Harris became somewhat of a

PLEASE SEE CARDS PAGE 2

W&L moves towards greater
social diversity on campus

BY ANNA PARIS
PHI STAFF WRITER

get along, we are going to have to respect one another.”
“Ifwe can reach all aspects of campus, that will start a

domino effect,” Kanner said.

‘ X I ouldn’t it be nice to live in a place where ev

eryone got along regardless of their differences?

A new student organization, Programming for

the Respect of Individuals and Diversity in Education,

hopes to address the issue of racial, ethnic, religious, gen-
der and lifestyle diversity at Washington and Lee.

“In the fall, we started planning for a group to address
the issue of improving the W&L community through diver-
sity,” Dean Anece McCloud said.

Three students were chosen to lay the groundwork
for the group. Twelve other students were selected to
become a part of the central committee of P.R.I.D.E.
based on their leadership abilities and their commit-
ment to a wide variety of organizations on campus. The
group includes athletes, Greeks, independents and in-
ternational students.

“Each group member is enthusiastic about mak-
ing W&L more diverse,” P.R.I.D.E. member Will-
iam Kanner said.

The mission of P.R.I.D.E. closely follows Robert E.
Lee’s call for “gentlemanly conduct.”

“Everyone brings a type of diversity to this campus,”
McCloud said. “It is important that we listen to each other
with open minds. In order to have a community where we

P.R.I.D.E. hopes to sponsor a Diversity Festival in the
coming year.

“Various student organizations will be repre-
sented,” McCloud said. “They’ll each do something
to display American diversity and culture.”

P.R.I.D.E. members will target Greek organiza-
tions, the Minority Student Association, the Execu-
tive Committee and other campus groups.

McCloud envisions a variety of speeches, cos-
tumes and dances representing different lifestyles
and cultures.

“We don’t want to exclude anyone. P.R.I.D.E.
is an inclusive organization,” McCloud said.

P.R.I.D.E. plans to host additional events in the
future. “Our objective this year was to get the orga-
nization in place,” McCloud said.

“We’d like to encourage activities to get people to
know each other more,” Kanner said.

“P.R.I.D.E. is an ongoing project,” McCloud em-
phasizes. “Those who are members at this point in
time are expected to be lifetime members. Our alumni
group will keep everyone at W&L abreast ofwhat goes
on in the real world, and hopefully, they will take some
ofthe things that they have learned out to society.”

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI NEws EDITOR

Finding a cure for the graduation blues...

Seniors have last hurrah

Stephanie Sterling and Melissa
Gibson decided to take on the wild,
wild West.

 
 

::.tiIne'.iforius; I}   3 - ~— 
    .eawem.earas.eansm:A 
I foodwerea-source-ofcomfoit for: . '
F Jackwas truly fortunate to
have such5wonderfui‘jfrierIds’l :
during hisr.sh¢r£~e}ife.. We 
; you-I-our his ’beh;a‘it’.3 * Wle.are?at1I =
. blessed with so many happy
m’e‘moriesI‘ofhim;. “ E E
Roger,fCon.nie and Jennie -I
‘ : '  ‘I Bowden‘

 

  
 
 
 

  

Some laugh. Some cry. Some
streak the Colonnade. Some drink un-
til temporary blindness sets in.

After four years at Washington and
Lee, most graduating seniors do some-
thing special to commemorate their
entrance into the jungle. Many take a
vacation for a final ﬂing, a last good-
bye or a cure for the graduation blues.

Ben Rippeon and two of his fra-
ternity brothers are touring Europe for
a month, flying into Heathrow airport
in England June 15.

“We’re going to England, France,
Germany, Italy and Amsterdam,”
Rippeon said. “We probably will
never have the opportunity again. It
just seemed like a cool thing to spend
a month in Europe with some of my
friends.”

“We’re starting at my house in
Connecticut, and making a straight
shoot out to Utah,” Sterling said.
“From there we’re going places like
the Grand Canyon and Zion National
Park.”

Sterling has never been west of the
Mississippi, unlike Gibson, who is
from Iowa.

“It’s Melissa’s mission to educate
me about the West,” Sterling said.

Just call them “Thelma and
Louise.” Sterling and Gibson’s trip
will end in Seattle, Washington. Ster-
ling is taking a few years off to do
research before applying to medical
school. Gibson is working as a nanny
in Chicago and Ann Arbor, Michigan

PLEASE SEE GRADS PAGE 2

  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

   

 

   

   

  
   
   

Photo by llollister llovcy/Photo Editor

The State of
Indecision

After four years of
relatively sheltered
existence, many
graduating seniors face the
hard reality of the real
world with trepedation
and indecision. Even
seniors with definite future
plans wonder if they have
chosen the right path.

THTTP

://www.

    

WLU.EDU/“"PHI/

  

PAGE 2

NEWS

A decade-late band finds

 

Photo by Guy Molyneux/Photographer

We’re going to party like it’S 1999: The Breakfast Club plays for W&L students.

  

of 199

tions

 

  

Websites of the Week

BY MATTHEW CRAIG
PHI STAFF WRITER

Summer is almost here. That means summer jobs
and enormous amounts of free time -- compared to
the rest of the year. I thought that as a community
service I would provide you with some sites dedi-
cated to the wasting of time. Of course, I do that
every week, but who cares? Anyway, here are some
sites that will give you something to do while you’re
sitting at home or work with nothing to do.

Madlibs
http://www. mit.edu:8001/madlib

We all remember these gAd1.g gNoun) .
They provided endless hours of gNoun} and

gNounj . Whenever you get bored this summer,
you can pull out your gAdi.) gNoun) and
1Adi.) gAdi.) gNoun) and go to work. This
will surely gVerb) quite a bit of gNoun) for

you, your friends, and coworkers.

Waste of Time Page
http://www. umr. edu/~t0mmy/span, mm!

This page makes no pretensions as to what it is.
It is quite simply an enormous waste of time that
provides amusing distractions and some helpful self
improvements. Are some holy-rollers reminiscent
ofNed Flanders on your case about not being reli-
gious enough? With this page you can ﬁnd Jesus a
la “Where’s Waldo.” Is he riding the Ferris wheel
or hiding somewhere in the crowd? You can also
brush up on your Spanish skills in order to make
yourselfa more attractive candidate when you ap-
ply for ajob. Su mono es en fuego.

Celebrity Slugfest
http.‘//slugfest. kaizen. net/

Do you hate “Beverly Hills 90210” as much as I
do? Are you still frustrated by O.J. Simpson? Have
you have had the urge to take Bill Gates’ pocket
protector and shove it up his nose? Now you can
vent all ofthis anger at the Celebrity Slugfest page.
Pick one of several celebrities and engage them in
an online boxing match. Possible opponents include
Tori Spelling, Barney, Fabio, Madonna, David
Letterman, O.J. Simpson, Rush Limbaugh, Bill
Gates and Mr. Rogers.

 from page 1

Santa Clause, giving drinks and candy to her friends.

The same mistake will not be made next year.

“We are going to make the policy clear from the out-
set next year,” Cuny said. “We want to keep the tax free
part ofthe policy, but are going to make sure that every-
one knows they cannot keep any money on the card at
the end ofthe year.”

Wadlow Kolee

$3500 o.b.o. 463-7300

l988 Honda Civic 4DR, 5 spd, sunroof
cassette/stero, excellent condition in & out,
1 owner, all service records, 134K mi., clutch
& timing belt replaced, needs minor repairs.

F.A.M.E. at fraternity parties » 

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI Nr-.ws EDITOR

MAY 26, 1997

Banks, who is trained in classical music, enjoys his

time in the band.

The Breakfast Club has countless students at 5‘

Washington and Lee “hungry like the wolf” for

1980’s music.

Y’all

They have captured the attention of hundreds of

fraternities and sororities on the East Coast

They smoke cigarettes incessantly during perfor-
mances. And with covers of 80’s hits like “Come on
Eileen,” “Centerfold” and “Down Under,” The Break-

aren’t
afraid

fast Club makes you feel like its 6th grade all over

again.

to raise

“I love 80’s music,” sophomore Kendra Archer

said. “And they play the best ofthe songs from that

time.”

Band members add to the 80’s ambience by wear-
ing black vinyl pants and multi—colored “Cat in Hat”

hats.

hell

“We like performing at Washington and Lee,”

band member Scott Banks said.
raise hell.”

“We make a good living, but we
are always on the road and don’t have
many days off.”

The Breakfast Club performs pri-
marily at college fraternity parties and
an assortment of bars throughout the
Southeastern United States. The band
originated in Winston-Salem, NC ,
but after several years and member
changes, their home base has been
changed to Atlanta.

Since the 80’s craze cannot last too
far into the next millennium, the
Breakfast Club is currently recording

0

Bjggtli/:;';': » original material for an upcoming CD

5 5 release.
‘ ~ For more information about the
Breakfast Club, check out their
“wan arenat afraid to website: httpsﬂwww.mindspringcom/

~walletb0/ index. html.

 from page 1

next year.

Some use the limbo time after
graduation and before the real world
to vacation with family members.
Tara Hebert and her sister Samantha
embark on a Carnival Cruise in June.
Leaving from Puerto Rico, the ship
will sail to St. Thomas, St. Martin,
Barbados, Martinique and Dominica.

“We ﬁgured it was our last chance
for a ﬁnal relaxation,” Hebert said.
Hebert enters medical school in the
fall.

Steve Frame and Manmeet Singh
are taking a road trip to Canada, stop-
ping off at places like Massachusetts,
New Jersey and Maine. “ It’s the best
way to see the country, and its cheap,”
Singh said.

“I think we’re going to make it up

as we go along. It depends on how
we’re getting along after two weeks.”

And then there are those who feel
that real world responsibility has crept
up on them too fast. One senior was
planning on backpacking through Eu-
rope with her best friend from home.
“Then I got engaged,” she said. “It
just wasn’t possible anymore because
I had to think about plans and money
for the wedding.”

Tuesday

This Week’: Weather:

Wednesday Thursday

Fﬁday

Saturday Sunday

 

  

High: 65°
Low: 50°

High: 66°
Low: 49°

High:71°
Low: 50°

High: 73°
Low: 54°

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

High: 75°
Low: 54°

High: 79°
Low: 55°

3BR, 1 BA apt. For rent in downtown Lex,
historic building, 2 phone lines, cable-ready,
2 min. Walk from W&L, shopping, food, movies,
&post olhce. $550/mo. 1 yr. Lease 463-7300

September 22nd
Iookfor
the 100th
anniversary
issue of

The Ring-tum Phi

   

43.! 3

   

Lexington Carriage Company

Historic Tours of Lexington
great for All Special Occasions
Tours start across from the

Lexington Visitor ’s Center,
and are available seven

days a week
(540) 463-5647

)t

  

_ 4

MAY 26, 1997

 

&life

PAGE 3

Professor seeks students to learn about
autism, help build future for his son

BY ERicA PROSSER
PHI STAFF WRITER

11 over campus, a photograph ofa smiling child
Ahangs from bulletin boards. The child is Caleb

Russell Lambert, the five-year-old son of Dr. Ken-
neth Lambert of the computer science department and Dr.
Demaree Peck, formerly of the English department.
Caleb’s photo accompanies ajob advertisement for“reliable,
enthusiastic” students willing to earn money or possibly course
credit. The position is one that would help Caleb have a “brighter
future,” for Caleb has autism.

“He was almost two years old before we noticed the
symptoms,” Dr. Lambert. Lambert said that Caleb walked
on tip-toe and spun Tupperware lids, flapping his arms.
Caleb’s parents had no idea that the toddler was autistic.

“He was in a playgroup,” Lambert explained, a group ofboys
his own age. Gradually, the other boys left Caleb behind. He
didn’t talk, and he played “inappropriately,” spinning objects
and withdrawing. But even the family physician did not notice a
problem in Caleb’s behavior, and it was Caleb’s grandmother
who impressed upon Lambert and Peck the need for testing.
They took their son to the Kluge
Center in Charlottesville, where
he was diagnosed with perva-
sive developmental delay
(PDD) with characteristics and
features of autism.

He was behind his peers

 
  
 
 
  
   
    
 

Computer graphic
by Tom Wadlow

E

I

in expressive and receptive language and fine motor skills.
Upon diagnosis in October 1993, his language level was that
ofa nine-moiith-old infant. His fine motor skill level was at
about 12 months, but his gross motor skills were normal for
his age: he couldjump, run, and climb like any two—year-old.

“It was depressing news,” Lambert said ofthe diagnosis.
The doctor on hand gave Caleb’s parents no hope and of-
fered no helpful programs. There are few programs in this
area, Lambert said, since the population is small, and what
programs existed at the time did not serve the needs ofthe
autistic. So Dr. Peck took Caleb and their second child,
Catherine, to Rochester, NY, for treatment. Lambert stayed
in Lexington to teach and search for possible programs in
the area, perhaps in cities with larger populations.

Charlottesville and Roanoke were the only possibilities.
Finally, in the spring of 1994, Lambert found a program in
Roanoke, sold his Lexington house and moved to Roanoke
where Peck and the children joined him. He has commuted
from Roanoke to Lexington during the school year ever since,
but that is about to change. Expressing homesickness for this
area, Lambert said that he and his family will be moving back
to Lexington on May 29.

“The school in Roanoke isn’t enough,” Lambert mentioned.
“(Caleb) needs attention around the clock.” Lambert amended
that Caleb does sleep at night, but while he is awake and at home,
he needs constant one-on-one care to initiate appropriate behavior.
He plays well with supervision, but without it, he can regress. The
weekends are especially important. Since his diagnosis, Caleb has
come a long way in ﬁne motor skills, but he still does not talk, and
his receptive language skills are gaining very slowly.

Like most autistics, Caleb has excellent spatial think-
ing ability. He can recognize hundreds of written words
through making associations with pictures, and even at

the age of two, he could ﬁnd his way through a park even
after one visit. However, Caleb cannot use words in a
ﬁinctional context, and he may never grasp figurative
meanings, a problem that distresses his literary mother.
n many ways, Caleb is an ordinary ﬁve-year-old: he is ex-
tremely loving and affectionate, and he expresses himself

 

‘N4 i/i\i/ x; «t 1 Ht\(/I.
\. “ .

      
    

 

ll. 7! Iﬂi -l\_t,l "

“d ‘A  FT.‘ ".7. ‘

Lsxmtzroit HRGINI.-\
Fourtoizb me

70“ X 48”
Virginia Born and Bred’s Exclusive

16 West Washington St. Lexington
(540)463-1832

100% COTTON THROW

“~ 'NV.4HHIIniim nu/u//H 1/,

"WM iv?‘-sat.

I/.\l/.\I) 8:
FRIIIT BAR
All You Can Eat S

11a.m.-11p.m.
7 days a week

*1

ﬂpen

Country

Hot Bar
[Z You CaEaz‘

   

5 p.m. - 11 p.m.
7 days a week

24 hours a day .————q
t LEE 111 Travel l’|aza""""

through sounds. To encourage his progress, Caleb’s par-
ents have advertised for students to give him the attention
he needs when they return to Lexington. In Roanoke, such
student help was a common occurrence.

Lambert recollected a Virginia Tech student who com-
muted from Blacksburg to Roanoke twice each week for
two years to work with Caleb. Students from Hollins and
Roanoke College worked, as well, some for psychology
credit arranged with the schools.

\ Because Lambert is usually commuting and Peck can-
not do everything herself, the student workers must be spe-
cial people. A good personality is a must, and a willing-
ness to be tactile and enthusiastic is necessary. Lambert
said, “It takes a certain kind of person,” and one can learn
to be that kind of person with practice. Workers are trained through
workshops and viewing Caleb’s records, including videotapes of
his behaviors and workbooks of his progress. Workers then learn
how to help Caleb through discrete trial therapy and drill therapy.
Lambert said that he and his wife were able to teach students how
to do this after they themselves learned.

The signs all over campus advertise for student workers that
can interact with Caleb once the family retums to Lexington.
Lambert and Peck are currently trying to work out an arrange-
ment with the psychology department that could offer course credit
to interested students. For now, a student helper can work 6-12
hours per week and make six dollars per hour working with Caleb.
Lambert mentioned that some students in the past have made
“pretty good money” this way. This position is also an opportu-
nity to learn about autism firsthand. Interested students need not

 

.........    . .  
Photo courtesy of keiiiieth Lambert
Professor Kenneth Lambert and his son Caleb.

be psychology majors, and they need not give “therapy” in this
job. Caleb primarily needs structured play, and the student would
function as a unique babysitter. Interested students should contact
Demaree Peck at (540) 776-3325 until May 29. After that, infor-
mation should be sought at 21 1 Barclay Lane, Lexington.

OH-LA -LA! Q11 EST-CE (J EST?
FRENCH CLASS PRESENTS
THEATER or-‘ TJHJE AJBSURJD

BY CATHERINE RUTH FELTON
PHI STAFF WRITER

Looking for an opportunity to see some fellow students
acting for the first time... in French? Here’s your chance.

Professor Domnica Radulescu’s French Theater
class will be performing “Le Roi se meurt” by Eugene
lonesco and “En attendant Godot” by Samuel Beckett
this week in Lenfest’s Johnson Theater.

Both plays were written during the French avant—
garde period, also called the theater of the absurd. “The
plays are similar in that they both pose the philosophi-
cal question of waiting for the end,” said Radulescu,
the creator and director.

The class has been preparing for the production all
Spring Term. They began by studying the period and
the playwrights, then they learned about the elements
of production. Now they are frantically trying to re-
member their foreign lines as they rehearse in cos-
tumes that they create themselves.

“We gathered all the props and designed our own
costumes,” said freshman Hillary Everist. ‘‘It’s been
really fun.”

   

The plays altemate scenes, and the students, most of whom
have never acted before, switch roles for each scene.

- “It’s wonderful because all the parts are so varied," said
sophomore Becca Harris. “It’s good for the creativejuices.“

The students will perform “Le Roi se meurt” and “En atten-

dant Godot” in the Johnson Theater May 28, 29 and 30 at 8 p.ni.

Photo courtesy of Patrick Hinely

The cast of “Le Roi se meurt” and “En attendant

The production has been organized in a unique way. Godot” have rehearsed all spring term.

 

gmﬂy
ﬂmci

ll Yu C

 

8 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Sundays

 

Grer SUMMER
601/N351 are Po:/no/vs

RESIDENTIAL SUMMER CAMPS SEEK smrr /N Au
TEAM spa/ers: BASEBALL, BASKETBALL,
T ENNIS, Soccrk, /NL/NE HOCKEY, Goir,
Sw/MM/Na, SA/L/Na, AND RN‘: ETC.

Located in the mountains of
Massachusetts, just 2 1/2 hours from
NYC/Boston

Competitive salaries, room
a_nd board _
Internships are available

Call Camp Greylock for Boys
(800) 842-5214 _

or Camp Romaca for Girls-é

(888) 2—Romaca

  

  

 

MAY 26, 1997

Get the student loan that »
glves you what you Want. V

 

FROM ClT|BANK~

What you need V
to get what you want“ ,,

Call (888) CITI—911, and ask for Operator 7107, ;
www.citibank.com/student, or Visit your FAA ofﬁce. *

 

 

Double standards

Double standards abound.

Whether it is with the "walk of fame"
and "walk of shame" concept or the pun-
ishments levied upon students at the two
Lexington colleges, the double standard
is all around us.

The two VMI cadets caught April 30 steal-
ing the blue and white ﬂags W&L displays on
big weekends received a far too lenient pun-
ishment.

When a W&L student was caught a
couple of years ago in the VMI barracks,
she was arrested and charged by the Lex-
ington Police Department with
tresspassing. We feel that vandalism and
theft are a far more serious crimes than
tresspassing, and the VMI cadets should
have been arrested and thrown in jail.

“If we catch them again, we'll put them in
jail,” said Director of Security Mike Young.
They should have been put injail the first time.
Since these three were seniors, there will not
be a next time.

The other possible punishment for the
three was the loss of their military com-
missions. The cadets were caught in an
act of theft and vandalism, and they should
not be U.S. military officers. A similar
act at Annapolis, the Air Force Academy
or West Point would have incurred far
more serious punishments.

So much for the discipline VMI loves to
promote. Whether the act was a prank or not,
it was still a crime which should have been
punished more severely than painting a couple
of curbs. F

W&L has no qualms about expelling se-
niors who commit honor violations; what is so
different about VMI? Who can forget the open
trial two years ago? That had a profound effect
on Jarrod Aldom's life.

We hope that Mr. Young will punish cadets
who commit crimes on this campus more se-
verely in the future.

Political miracle rescued
from liberal interference

Dick Gcphardt is at it again.

Two ofthe few remaining die-hard liber-
als in Congress. Rep. Gephardt. D—Mo.. and
Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass, almost suc-
ceeded in killing a Washington miracle: a

From the Right
Jason Zaeher ’98

Phi Executive Editor

bipartisan balanced budget agreement. At 3
a.m. Wednesday, it passed the House 333-
99, and it passed the Senate fairly easily on
Friday. The bill now goes to committee to iron
out the differences between the two plans.

As is always the case with Washington
politics, two parties are trying to achieve the
same end but want to use radically different
means. In a case of divine intervention,
President Clinton and Congress agreed on a
plan;when Gephardttriedtoblockit, Clinton
supported the bipartisan plan and killed
Gephardt’s plan.

Gephardt worried that the plan hurt
people. Hewentontosay that deficitswould
spiral after the ﬁve years which the agree-
ment covers because the agreement only
balanced the budgeton paper. He had no real
facts, but called it the “budget of many
deficits,” including “a deficit of principle.”
He probably voted against the agreement to
boost his national reputation so he can chal-
lenge Al Gore for the presidency in 2000.

Kennedy proposed a $20 billion cigarette

tax to help provide health coverage to poor
children. He knew that such an amendment
would kill the balanced budget plan. The
plan would raisethecigarettetax by 43 cents
a pack and the funding would go to a new
program. Although this program is billed as
"vo1untary” by its promoters, it is a man-
datory program in which states must par-
ticipate in order to receive money. The
program also includes several other man-
dates which would have cost states even
more money.

There is an insurance coverage gap. Pri-
vate companies cover 63 percent of the
nation’s 71 million children. 23 percent are
covered by Medicaid, 1 percent are listed as
“other” and 14 percent are uninsured. The
current budget plan already has $16 billion
set aside to close the insurance coverage gap
for children. There is nothing wrong with a
tobacco tax. but this problem doesn’t need to
be solved by levying more taxes.

Instead of levying more taxes to cover
health care, the Republicans have some
ideas on how to help defray the costs of
healthcare for children. The ﬁrst is allowing
children’s health care to be tax-deductible.
A second is idea is allowing parents to set up
tax-free medical savings accounts.

A few years ago, the Democrats had no

trouble “hurting” military families and 1

defense contractors’ families by closing
military bases all over the country and
slashing the size ofthe military. Nobody
wants children to suffer. Even the far-
thest-right conservatives don’t want that,

Useless trivia for graduation 1997

‘v '7 0"“/ND‘; if
" P/7-24 hazy ‘,1  /
_ ‘’97’ var ff 2 in 2
ii , Pizza 54.17 ,1! ‘
S’ 3 r S! V /,L—’, AW 3
S 1: S F  E (WM  s E 9 luv“ 7
M ,. / u

u’-fa§s:§:2p{13-3' ////i:9VQ?;§Wﬂ
3 .. 3 E ,5 Q +; -2 5+3,

as 2* 3 tr 4: 5 g 5 5 .3 (

ii ° » a - v :- x l
./ "‘ Vt  b
09 40 1 B’  I: :5‘ t
~«.....a.~:'/llj  :0’
“M  ,1 I. CAESWXS ' 5 -
F11-‘IA Ll Awe '  é
Fume ca 1 5 .2
Dad} M22» L_—_’‘'_‘’ at
“VT no«l‘f0- 0 I   M V
0,, W.’ L: an-r ADM:
val‘; :5 ’
_ Dﬁﬂll/"95 ;
ftL1.‘A~:‘;l' X
W
“//H-\ 4 —?rB»4—-.«,4.q-— the banana °

The pizza boxes and alcohol bottles thrown away by
one student after four years at W&L will house
a small Mexican village.

but tough choices have to be made. Some
people in this country are going to get hurt
by having to balance the budget.
Unfortunately, the infamous NIMBY
(Not In My BackYard) principle is mani-

festing itself in American politics again.
Almost everyone (except for a few Demo-
crats) knows that someone has to be af-
fected by budget cuts, but nobody wants it
to be them. It is going to affect everyone.

Helping you to remember what you learned

We1l,I guess this is it. I only have two more classes left for the
rest of my life and this is my very last column. It puts me in a
reﬂective mood about how my life will change. Soon I’ll be
married; since l’llbechangirrg my last name, lsuppose Greenland
will turn into Wasserworld. I’ll never again have to do assigned

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

reading, but I also will no longer be able to get away with
wearing a hat instead of showering. lwon’t be able to wake
upon a Monday morning and decide to stay in bed. I will be,
in short, an adult. Yikes.

My reﬂections are not just on my future, but on my past four
years. I think the other seniorsyvjould agree that we’ve learned
a lot at Washington and Lee. Sure, we’ve learned a lot about our
respective majors, but I that doubt my knowledge of Pablo
Neruda’s poetry will get me far in the corporate world. We’ve
also learned some practical stuff, but unfortunately no one seems

able to remember what it is. You have me to remind you, in case
your parents ask.

Here’s what I have learned in college:

The exact amount of time it takes to write a ﬁve page
paperon any subject. I have written so many of those since
I’ve been here that I could write a ﬁve page paper in Spanish
about my belly button.

The extreme value of quarters. After ﬁnding quarters to be
as vital as oxygen for four years, not needing to feed the machine
when I wash my clothes from now on will be a hard task to learn.

How to mix drinks. I don’t mean just knowing what
goes into a martini; I could have learned that at a state school.
I mean that if you name any non-alcoholic beverage, I can
tell you what would mix well with it. Milk? Kahlua. Grape
Nehi? Vodka. Kaopectate? Captain Morgan’s Spiced Rum.
Feel free to challenge me.

_ \ Robert E. Lee was a good man. Since I grew up 

Tlllinoislschool discussions ofthe Civil War could be boiled?“

down thus: North good, South bad. Now I know there’s a
little more to it than that.
Beer before liquor, never sicker. liquor before beer,

never fear. This handy phrase was like a mantra during the ﬁrst
part of my freshman year. It seemed so prosaic that I considered
embroidering it on a pillow.

The value of friends (and how to spot ‘em). Isolated
here in little Lexington, our friends become our families.
They’re people to hold on to. On another note, l’ve learned
that if you ever find yourselfthinking, “He’s my friend, but
we really don’t have much to talk about,” or “She’s my
friend; Ijust can’t trust her,” then that person is not your
friend. That’s not as obvious as it seems.

How to embrace your inner Southerner. Even though
I grew up in the midwest, I now eat grits, drink mintjuleps,
enjoy seersucker jackets and can hear the word “y’all”
without laughing.

Honor isn’t so hard. Leading an honorable life isn’t so hard
to do. Sure, it might take some extra effort to study foratest rather
than cheat on it,’ may be rxasier to lie sometimes, but I’ve
found that knowing deep down inside that I am an honorable
person makes it all worthwhile.

Like I said before, I guess this is it. I suppose l’1l see you all
at those alumni cocktail parties. I’ll be the one mixing the drinks.

Quote of the week

“Have you ever been so
close to the fire that
the metal on your ﬂy
burns you?”

— cold sophomore at Buffalo Creek

@1112 ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlri

Courtney Miller
Jason Zaeher
Hillary Coombs
Andrea Ewing

Executive Editors

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editors Kathryn Mayumik

Tom Wadlow
Features Editor Tarah Grant
Opinion Editor David Balsley
Copy Editor Cliff Woolley
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

Rebecca Cuny
Matthew Craig
Douglas Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University. Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub-
scription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica-
tions Board elects the Executive Editor and Business
Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office. room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for
content and length. Letters. columns, and “My Views“
do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-
rial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of
The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@w1u.edu

 

How best to get cool cash for your fresh soul

So you’ve decided to sell your soul. This is
notassimpleastakingoutan adinthepersonals:
“Soul, rarely used, like new, $45,000 or best
offer.” In this complex religious and philo-
sophical transaction, the most important thing is
getting the best price for your soul.

The Looney Bin

Kevin McManemin ’00

The biggest blunder which most novices
make is selling their soul to Satan—BIG mis-
take. He didn’t become the Prince of Darkness
by dealing fairly with others. The Devil is
simply the ﬁrst guy to make an offer. He gets his
customers because his major competitor in the
soul business, Jesus, has never been known to
offer people worldly possessions for their eter-
nal spirits. This lackluster competition has

given Marilyn Manson, I mean, Satan, avirtual
monopoly on the Christian soul market, the
largest in the world.

Shop around. There are plenty of other
deities who would love to have your soul.
Consider Osiris, the Egyptian god of the dead.
This guy is desperate for a few new souls in his
underworld. While Satan will spend only a few
million bucksfortopofthelinesouls,Osiriswi1l
pay dearly for whatever karmic refuse comes
his way. Think about it: child molesters, to-
baceolobbyistsandCBS networkexecutives—
all these wretched people could get pyramids
full of gold.

Ahura Mazda, “Wise Lord” of the Zoroas-
trians, is another good god for the savvy soul-
seller. “You’d think that for one of the oldest
religions in the world we would have more than
a couple of Persians to show for it,” Ahura
Mazda thus spake. “It’s not helping things that

the colonnode club by hollister hovey

   
 

“Buy the fountain drink machine
in the Co-op. "
—1S'teven Klotz, '00

“Spend it on beer or something? "
vWill.S'mith, '00

t+.erze's WHAT y-in
4-2rF0tZ Fvt,u>WiN'
WY-TENNIFEZ

my name sounds like a crappy  Ahura
Mazda will buy your soul for a cool billion
dollars, and you can buy the new Mazda Ahura
for $14,500 at your local Mazda dea1er—both
good deals!

For those who believe in reincarnation,
just go to Vishnu, the four-armed Hindu
dude, and ask to see the price list. Here is
what you can expect for your little bit 0’
Brahma: a Ferrari costs reincarnation as a
hedgehog, but $10,000,000 will cost you
reincarnation as Martin Short.

Don’t offer your soul to Odin, though. This
supernatural Scandinavian made it clear that
“unless you die in gloriousbatt1e,we don’twant
your pansy ass in Valhalla.” Also, it’s best to
steer clearof Yahweh, theOld Testament god of
the Hebrews. Jehovahwaslessthan jovial when
we interviewed him and turned one of our
staffers into a pillar of salt. The sad thing is that

being transformed into a pillar of salt improved
this young man’s sex life, but that’s neither here
nor there.

Perhaps your best option is to sell your soul
to a bunch of atheists. They won’t do anything
with it. 'Ihey’1l just continue to sip their
cappuccino in darkened coffee shops while
discussingthe worksoflean Paul Sartre. [doubt
these unemployed liberal arts majors can offer
you much in the way of worldly accouterments,
but at least you’ll know that your soul will be
untouched in the afterlife.

What happens when we’re as dead as MC
Hammer’s career? No one knows, really. So
why not hold onto your soul? Hey, at least keep
Satan waiting until you get a better offer.

Author ’s note: This piece will be pub-
lished in an upcoming issue of Satire maga-
zine. C heck out their website at http://
www.intrepid.net/satire.

 

“Actually, [just ran out of money
and so have become better friends
with c\'cr_\‘onc whohas m(mc_y left. "

FEAL ul, ?‘5ALl-‘I
Tujipptv ugrtwe PDNE

 

Afew MlNvl'€h Lrraa...

-—Davc Pussu\'curt, '99

“My roommate has no money left
so I'm letting her rim ririt/"
—(.'hri.x'tinc .S'humatc, '09

g How would you spend the money from your food debit
as account if the university refunded it to you?

“It's my parent's money. I don 't
care. "

—.Iit.s'tiIrc Ricdcll, '98

 

  

 

PAGE 6

   

...........Phi’s back page reviews.........

MAY 26, 1997

THE LOST WORLD’:
BETTER THAN ‘JURASSIC PARK’

at * * of 4; thoroughly entertaining

The pitch: “It'll be like ‘Jurassic Park’ with more dinosaurs and less

annoying jerky people.”
iw ALEX CllRlS'l‘I~1NSl€N
PHI IVIOVIIE CRITIC

“Jurassic Park” was not what I’d call a
“good movie.” In fact, it’s not really what I’d
call a “passable movie.” It just downright
sucked. If it hadn’t had so many cool dino-
saurs, I would have walked out. The charac-
ters were annoying whiners and I wanted them
dead. They took way too much screen time
away from the dinos. In fact, nearly every time
there would be a good dinosaur shot, they
would immediately cut away to the moronic
gaping face of some Hollywood actor. Spare
me. Plus, all the characters who lived to the
end were either insane or really stupid. What
kind of identification can you make with
such losers?

“The Lost World: Jurassic Park” seems to
have realized the mistakes made in the first ﬁlm.
Better than that, the dino-producing technol-
ogy has blossomed thanks to great leaps for-
ward in CG tech-
nology. Now we
can have all dino-
saurs all the time.
That’s all I ever
asked for.

I’m not going to
try to sell you a bill
of goods and say that
this movie isn’t cheesy. The
plot is thin and contrived, though not
distractingly so. The one-liners are enter-
taining, surpassing most other action mov-
ies one-liners by leaps and bounds. In fact,
you may never listen to a one-liner the same way
again. But they are one-liners, the typical
action-inovie substitute for dialogue. Oh well.

Even the plot setup is cheesy. Ian Malcolm
(Jeff Goldblum) is summoned to a meeting with
John Hammond (Richard Attenborougli), the cre-
ator of the Jurassic Park of the first movie. He wants
to recruit Malcolm to go to “Site B,” the breeding
center for Jurassic Park, which is on another island
next door to the one in the ﬁrst movie.

A distressing interjection here: these is-
lands are part of a FIVE-ISLAND CHAIN
which is referred to as “Las Cinco Muertas:
The Five Deaths”! I don’t mention this to
frighten you with a premonition of death, but of
more sequels! I can see it now. “Dinoﬁnger:
The Lost World 2: Jurassic Park 3”: “Oh, sorry,

Ian, didn‘t I tell you about Site C‘? That’s where
we keep the pterodactyls that know sign lan-
guage.” “Thunder Lizard: The Lost World 3:
Jurassic Park 4”: “Oh, didn’t I mention Site D?
That’s where we keep the mean ones!” And so
on... Really, this one is ﬁne, but I can only fore-
see a degeneration ifthe sequels keep coming. I
appeal to the gods who punish greed to send a
telegram to Spielberg c/o Universal.)

So anyway, Malcolm, understandably,
doesn’t want to go. He was ridiculed as a nut for
trying to expose Jurassic Park for what it was,
and, of course, he was chased by dinosaurs and
nearly killed. You can see why he wouldn’t want
to repeat that experience. But Hammond, evil
genius that he is, has thought ahead. He already
recruited Malcolm’s girlfriend, shapely science
girl Sarah Harding (Julianne Moore). Now
Malcolm has his motivation: to rescue her.

The best thing about the movie is Jeff
Goldblum. I absolutely hated him in “Jurassic
Park.” He was this condescending, lazy whiner
who didn’t seem to care if he was eaten. He sat
around in his leatherjacket and sunglasses and
said ironic things while dinosaurs hunted him. I

' couldn’t take his blasé attitude. Hejust didn’t

seem to care.

But in this ﬁlm, the audience isn’t asked to
take it seriously, so his one-liners are funny.
His attitude has also been altered because of
the presence ofhis girlfriend and his daughter
Kelly (Vanessa Lee Chester). You feel his
strain when they are in danger, and you like
him a lot better.

Vanessa Lee Chester’s character also does
an amazing feat straight out ofthat old Mr. T
cartoon where they beat up villains with their
amazing gymno-skills. I loved that show, and
I appreciate the nod to all ofus fans who have
missed it for so long. Also notable in the cast
are Pete Postlethwaite as The Great White
Hunter (not silly) and Arliss Howard as John
Hammond’s egomaniacal nephew (wonder-
fully silly).

Of course, the situations are ridiculous, the
tension sometimes collapses into laughs, the sci-
ence is bad, etc., etc. But the overriding
counterargument to all of these criticisms is that
we get excitement, lots of beautiful dinosaurs,
and even those pterodactyls which were myste-
riously missing from the first ﬁlm. Thank you,
Mr. Spielberg, and now it’s on to “Amistad” and
“Saving Private Ryan” and “Indy 4” and let’s
win there.

   
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  

War (V//your

O

O
\

4*? yswa/* mmat <>

  :7uxe0/05 *%cc501°1'<2

<>  

[7  Qfefrozz CS/reel’

ﬁexzlny/012, 7)1lty1°121'a 2445
Q /5410) 464-168]

0

\
O

  
   
  
     
 
  
        
    

I
greiiy 0000310125"

0

Doug and Robin’s

W aiit

The Sheridan Livery Inn

Main Street, Lexington

Ratings (I-5): Pepper Grinder 4; Powder Room
4.5; Service 4; Food Quality 4.5: Food Presenta-
tion 5; Price Range:

$4-$ I 6

New inn offers superb experience

Wow! What a terriﬁc experience for our last
review this year. On Tuesday night we checked
out the new Sheridan Livery Inn.

Upon entering we discovered a spectacular
atmosphere. The distant wall consisted entirely
oflarge picture windows, and a festive fountain
gurgled its playful song in the center of the res-
taurant. In the background, the music of piano
genius George Winston was playing, and the many
patrons all seemed to be enjoying themselves; it
was like a scene out of Hotel California.

The varied menu offered us an excellent se-
lection. The main focus seems to be ‘surf and
turf but the restaurant also offers everything
from Burgers to Scallops in Bourbon and from
Grilled Lamb Chops to Ruben sandwiches. The
wide variety made our decisions diﬁicult.

Soon we were ready to order: Spinach and
Pesto Chicken on a bed of linguini for Robin
and the 802 New York Strip for Doug. Both
entrees came with a choice of soup or salad.
Robin choose the vegetarian vegetable soup
while Doug selected a salad with Tomato Bal-

BY ANDREA EWING
PHI ASSOCIATE EDITOR

samic Vinaigrette dressing. Both ofthese first
courses were excellent! Robin’s soup was full
offresh spices and seasonings, while the dress-
ing on Doug’s salad was unlike anything he has
ever had in Lexington before —— truly unique.
The first course also came with fresh
bread that stayed soft and ‘
palatable throughout the
meal. It was obviously oven-
prepared, not microwaved.

(The inn is)

Our surprise did not end with the presenta-
tion. The taste of our dishes supported their
looks. Robin’s dish was rich and ﬂavorful;
Doug‘s steak was tender and prepared exactly
as he likes it. Our waitress even brought back
the “police baton“ pepper grinder, which Doug
had used for his salad, and offered its use with
the entrees.

We were beginning to feel full, but wejust
didn‘t want to let this good time end, so we
ordered desserts. We selected the White
Chocolate Mousse with raspberry sauce and
the Double Chocolate Cake. The desserts
were the perfect end to a perfect meal. As
we ﬁnished the restaurant was still crowded,
but we did not feel pressured
to leave. We probably could
have slept in our booth and
they wouldn’t have objected.

The main course arrived   ASweieﬂ’DOugVemuredt0the
500“ thereafter and agai“ We powder room and found it to be
were astonished. Robin’s Pesto  large’ Clean and bright with
Chicken was the most visually- f ' I h- - «L

_ _   n muci to is surprise. aser
appealingdish wehadseen out-  Sinks“ like the Ones at the

side of Atlanta, Houston, or
New York in a long time. We
had to check and make sure we
were still in Lexington. Doug’s steak was also
well-presented, with a marinade and vegetable
peppercom sauce to add color to the plate and a
baked potato on the side. Both of us received side
orders of cooked baby carrots.

dining.

Roanoke Airport. Such nice
’ , touches are ararity in Lexington.
We simply can not say
enough good things about the Inn. As our
readers know, we customarily do not rate res-
taurants so highly, but as long as the Inn main-
tains this level of excellence, it will be our
new benchmark for Lexington dining.

Good casting makes ‘Into the Woods’ a success

but the results of her wants do not lead to the happiness she seeks.
The playwright, James Lapine, added the characters of the Baker

written as dim-witted.

 

“Into The Woods” opened Friday nightto asold-out audience. Billed
as a “thoroughly beguiling mixture of fairy-tale characters” with “de-
lightful music” and “magical staging,” it ﬁilﬁlled its promises.

As the curtain rose, the set came into view. The professional look
to the all the scenery provided an excellent backdrop for the action
taking place in front of it. Probably the most impressive aspect proved
to be the woods themselves. As scenes changed, the woods them-
selves shifted on platforms. The moon and stars that appear later in the
show lend an eerie feeling to the set that is most appropriate.

“Once upon atime,” the narrator begins, “in far off kingdom lived a
fair young maiden, asad young lad and a childless baker with his wife.”
This line begins a frantic and imaginaryjoumey to fulﬁll wishes and
break curses. The familiar tales become intertwined and lead to fates
previously unimagined for the characters involved.

Little Red Riding Hood, played by freshman Brittany Ahlstrom,
was very convincing as the innocent, little girl that we all know and
love from one of our favorite fairy tales. In the woods, she packs a
knife and pulls it out on a number of occasions.

T.W. Leshner portrays Jack, a boy who is rather slow but loveable.
It was amazing to learn that this was his ﬁrst appearance in a musical.
He brought out a serious side to Jack even though the character is

In the ﬁrst act, Cinderella stays true to the original Grimm fairy tale
as compared to the toned down Disney version. Freshman Mackenzie
Caldwell, Cinderella, ﬁt the part visually and offered the audience a
look into Cinderella’s real personality. She wishes for many things,

We’ve been doing t

and his wife to tie all the other tales together. Denis Riva as the
Baker was convincing as a harried, common man dealing with witches
and giants. The men of audience can relate to him, even when he
performs the strangest actions. Tara Herbert ﬁlling the role of the
Baker’s wife appeals to the women in the audience. She is strong
minded and sensible, but still dreams of her prince.

Perhaps the best performance was that of the Witch, Adrienne
Bryant. The role itself is very demanding, yet Bryant proved herself
extremely capable. She was the witch we all hate and fear, but Bryant
shows us the depth of her emotions.

The princes played by Aaron Brotherton and lady Koch made a
pair obsessed with self-gratiﬁcation. They battle in song to prove
who is going through the most suﬁering while obtaining their women.
“Agony,” sung by the two prince,s reveals their self—obsession and
yearning for the opposite sex.

“No More,” a duet sung by the Baker and the Mysterious Man
played by Zach Hanks, was very emotional closure to a hectic story
line. The ballad was performed skillfully and rendered a heart-felt
response from the audience.

Minor catches included actors tripping, a missed light cue and a
few missed notes. This can only be expected on opening night and
improved upon with each following performance.

The show promises much and delivers more. From excellent

make-up for the Wolf to beautiful costumes and from superb light-
ing to marvelous performances by the cast and orchestra, the play
will not disappoint, rather it will delight and inspire.

—Lea Ann Bigger and Gwerimarie Ewing contributed to this article.

For scream-free banking, open your personal checking
account with Bank of Rockbridge. When you bank with ‘us
you get a choice of 8 different checking accounts, including
our popular student account "Campus Checking".

Your Bank of Rockbridge checking account gives you free, unlimited usage
of our 10 area ATM’s. You can also access your account while you’re at home.
Just look for the HONOR, PLUS or CIRRUS signs. They’re everywhere.

Our two Lexington offices (each with 24-hour drive—up ATM’s) are located
in places you probably go everyday. Ever go to Wendy’s, Frank’s,.Kroger or
Harris—Teeter? We’re right next door - and there’s plenty of parking.

When you bank with us, you’ll be cared for by some of the friendliest people
you’ll ever meet - folks who’l1 take a special interest in you and your acccount.
his for 64 years - it’s a good bet we know what We’re doing.
Come open an account at Bank of Rockbridge today.

463-6690

  
   

463-4115

 

E. Nelson St. office

Hwy 11, N. (Kroger)

C
8tPayphICs

.. Did wementionithat the closest and most
Mountain  ' acon’venient.A'I‘M‘ to the W&L campus is one of
, ours? .;_You’1I find it right in the front door of

_i 3 Mountain Copy Graphics - corner of Lee and
‘—Nelsori-_ across from the‘Post Office and just
’ 7‘ up the street from the Palms.
‘ -  Withyour Bank of Rockbridge AT card,
you calriguse anyof our 10 (4 just in Lexington)
» -131-ea..ATM’s* free'=of charge. How do you get
-' .,ione.. It’s—=yours with a Bank of Rockbridge
checking account, Open one today!

ank of
Rockbridge

Member FDIC

