  

K including major revisions
of the Automatic Rule and

the Pass/Fail Policy

 

‘ PAGE 2 ,

Washington and Lee University

 returning to
several policy changes,

   
 

ﬂing-tum lﬂljt

Summer ﬂix:

P111’ film critic Alex Christensen breathes
a sigh of relief as the curtain falls on a
disappointing season

  

JAMES G. LEYBURN l.lBi-IAH .
‘ WASHINGTON 8: LEE lJNlVER5t%'

Students get a head start on the year wi snazzyﬁ
GJIS —— a survey of campus student parking lots.

And they're off.’

Tuesday
SEPTEMBER 9, 1997

V‘ VOLUME 9976

. .«

GAINING THE FRESHMAN 15

Frozen yogurt. Tacos. Chocolate mousse. Marshmallow ﬂuﬂ After a few months at the D-hall, the first class
of the new millennium may be less trim by the next century.

~W&L’s rank is movin’

BY ANDREA EWING
—j—AssocIATE EDITOR
T Washington and Lee’s standing
rose from 12th to 8th in the national
ranking of liberal arts colleges in
September’s U.S. News and World
4 Report.

According to the 1997 “Best Col-
leges” issue of the magazine, Wash-
ington and Lee is one of the ten best
national liberal arts colleges. The

Vuniversity is in a six-way tie with
schools such as Bryn Mawr College,
Middlebury College and Davidson
College.

“We are tied with other fine
schools much like Washington and
Lee,” Dean of Students David
Howison said. “It is an honor to be
ranked in the Top Ten.”

‘Science center
damaged in
‘$30,000 prank

BY SYBIL PRINCE

W&L received an overall score
of 91 out of a possible 100. The aca-
demic reputation of the school rated a
3.2 with the top possible being a 4.0.
The school is among the top ten uni-
versities in the country in other cat-
egories like graduation and retention,
faculty resources and student selectiv-
ity.

“I believe the criteria used to
make the rankings are valid measures
of quality,” Howison said.

According to U.S. News and
World Report, there are 159 national
liberal arts colleges based on the cat-
egories established by the Carnegie
Foundation of the Advancement of
Teaching. The key criteria in
judging the schools were
listed as acceptance rates,

graduation
rates and
classes of un-
der 20. W&L

is one of the
schools with low
acceptance rates
with only 34% of
those applying
actually being
accepted. At the
same time, W&L

An apparent prank and a malfunction over the sum-
mer at the new $20 million science center will cost Wash-

ington and Lee over $30,000.

An emergency shower outwash station on the 2nd
ﬂoor was pulled by an unknown person and was left run-
ning, causing water damage to three ﬂoors. Repairs in the
amount of $30,000 took one week as ceiling tiles had to

be replaced.

STAFF WRITER
has one of the

A leaky pipe burst in the animal laboratory above Dr.

Helen I’Anson’s office causing extensive damage.
4 “Some of the things damaged were invaluable, like
“her research notes,” Erika Woodson, a Robert E . Lee
scholar who worked in the Biology lab this summer said.
Director of Buildings and Grounds Scott Beebe said
this was due to a malfunction in the deionized water sys-

‘item in the new science building.

President Elrod feels there is no need to fear acts of
pranks or vandalism to the major investment.
“The students take good care of their school,” Elrod

said.

Whatever the case of events this summer, the new

the crimes.

science center is fully functional. The dedication of the

building will be held in the second week of October.

 

THEFT
ALERT

More than $700 in cash has been
stolen from various areas around cam-
pus this past week. Money was stolen
from rooms in Gaines Dormitory,
Woods Creek Apartments, and from
cars parked in the Law School and the
Corral. Security Chief Young asks
anyone who sees a non-student on
campus to‘ immediately inform the
security office. Young states that
there might be a connection among

highest graduation rates, boasting
87% of all entering students ﬁnishing
a degree.

“Rankings are valuable in alert-
ing students to the best schools in the
country,” Howison said. “There is no
question that as students and parents
look for colleges they turn to re-
sources such as US. News and World
Report.”

W&L also has an impressive
freshman retention rate of 93% and a
student-faculty ratio of 10-

1. The univer-
sity has
67% of

   
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

BYOB: it’s the
law of the land

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
Te NEWS EDITOR
YOB is here, and if things
work the way the Interfrater-
nity Council hopes, it is here
to stay.

This does not mean that drinking
will end at fraternity parties, it just
means that instead of the fraternities
footing the bill, it’s the partier’s penny
—- or a willing brother’s.

The IFC decided at the end of last
year that fraternities are to adhere a
“Bring Your Own Booze” policy at
fraternity houses, meaning that frater-
nities can no longer use house funds
to purchase alcohol.

“Students who want to drink at
fraternity parties have two choices
now,” IFC President Jason Callen
said. “They could bring their own
alcohol or they could drink alcohol
purchased by brothers.”

According to Callen, BYOB has
actually always been policy in the IFC
Constitution, but it has never been en-
forced.

The IF C meets this week with fra-
ternities to discuss ways they can carry
out BYOB. Fraternities do not have
to have enforce BYOB the same way,
but will each come up with a system
that works best for them, Callen said.

on up

its classes under 20 students and 75%
of the freshmen were in the top 10%
of their high school class.

Freshman Jean Rowan said she
chose W&L because it was a good
school with an excellent business pro-
gram.

“I liked the small school and safe
atmosphere,” she said. She also
pointed out that other factors not in-
cluded in the ratings such as the Honor
System and the speaking tradition also
helped her to make her final college
decision.

“It was that it all came together,”
Rowan said.

Howison also noted that key
things go beyond the rankings tend to
inﬂuence potential students more af-
ter they have visited the campus. He

feels that such aspects of the school
make it stand out from the others in

a student’s potential decision.
Washington and Lee has
been steadily climbing the
rankings of U.S. News and
World Report in the last few
years, and this will potentially
bring an even higher caliber

of student to the campus.

Dennis Manning,
Dean of the Freshmen Pro-

QDSEERANKPAGEZ

Some fraternities might use a tag
bar, where students would place their
alcohol behind the bar. Others mays
use a ticket system. Brothers would
distribute tickets to students that they
could trade in for a share of a particu-
lar brother’s alcohol. Students could
also request alcohol at parties from
specific brothers.

“This might make a fraternity
brother think twice about giving a
beer to a drunk person,” Callen said.
“Fratemties were always liable, but
now the brothers will be personally
liable for the alcohol they distribute.”

This policy might be more of a
shock to Washington and Lee women,
who have traditionally received alco-
hol with no questions asked. “But on
the other hand, what fratemtiy guy
will refuse giving a woman a beer?”
Callen said.

The penalty for a fratemity's first
offense of the BYOB policy is a
$2,000 fine and two weeks of social
probation. A second time offense is
a $2,500 fine, social probation for the
rest of the term and a potential refer-
ral to the Student Affairs Committee.
The SAC could suspend a fraternity
charter, kick them off campus or im-
pose other stringent punishments.

“A third offense would mean

very serious problems for the frater-
nity,” Callen said. “Maybe I’m just
being optimistic, but I don’t think that
it will ever get as far as a third offense,
or‘ even a second.”

Other IFC changes include ban-
ning fratemties from having grain al-
cohol on the premises. This fell un-
der the existing regulation that pro-
hibits communal sources, such as kegs
and barrels of grain alcohol, but now
it will be enforced more strictly.

IFC will observe parties to ensure

that the policies are being enforced.
V “I think that it is a positive step
for IFC and the fraternities them-
selves,” Callen said. “This is some-
thing that we’ve done completely on
our own without orders from the Hill
like Winter Rush.”

Winter Rush was instituted last
year in place of the long standing Fall
Rush.

“I think that BYOB will reform
irresponsible and unsafe behavior that
often went on at W&L,” Callen said.

W&L President John Elrod is
supportive of the new policies.

“It was refreshing to read the new
policies. I do think it will be a chal-
lenge to enforce them,” Elrod said. “If
this is enforced, alcohol abuse at W&L
will disappear.”

Dead rats scurry
mysteriously from
freezer to VMI

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
—j—--— NEWS EDITOR

Virginia Military Institute Post Po-
lice Larry Coffey called it a hate crime.

Some called it a harmless prank.
But no one can deny the strange cir-
cumstances surrounding the discovery
of 24 dead rats accompanied by a “Save
the Males” sign found by children on
the grounds in front of Superintendent
Josiah Bunting’s house.

Authorities believe that the act was
committed by a Washington and Lee
student. Coffey believes now that it was
probably a prank, but at the time, it
looked like something much more se-
rious.

“It was almost like a civil rights
violation, like burning a cross,” Coffey
said. “One gender was singled out in
this prank, and that makes it a threat. It
is a situation that could have gotten se-
rious.”

The rats and the sign were discov-
ered on August 20,just two days after the
anival of the ﬁrst female cadets at VIVH.

Chief Coffey contacted W&L Se-
curity Chief Michael Young after the

incident. Young traced the rodents to

' a group of 100 that were to be inciner-

ated by two W&L students working for
Building and Grounds over the sum-
mer. _

The unnamed students claim that
they took 24 rats and placed them in a
freezer to play a prank on a friend.

“It was a get-even kind of thing,”
Young said.

The rats mysteriously made their
way out of the freezer and over to VMI.

“I think it was kind of funny,” a
VMI cadet said. “The school was try-
ing so hard with the press to keep ev-
erything nice and pretty for the arrival
of the women, and then something like
this happened to mess it all up.” '

There is an enormous amount of
circumstantial evidence that places the
blame on a W&L student, Young said,
but there is still the possibility that it
was not someone from W&L.

President John Elrod called the
prank “vulgar” and called Bunting to
apologize for the incident. He also

i®? 

heart attack.

of admissions.

W&L geology professor
dies July 21 at age 66

Geology Professor Samuel Joseph Kozak, 66, died on July 21,
1997 at Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington after suffering a

Kozak was an important part of the Washington and Lee
community. He was the W&L representative for the Keck
Consortium, an undergraduate research project which sought to
improve the quality of geology education at 12 liberal arts
member colleges. He was also a dedicated supporter of the
W&L athletic program.

Kozak’s degrees include a B.S. from Bates College in 1954, an
M.S. from Brown University in 1958 and a Ph.D from the State
University of Iowa in 1961. Kozak joined the W&L staff in 1961.
He is survived by his wife, Julia Marie Kozak, W&L associate dean

Dr. Samuel Kozak

 

Bsrsr GREEN/RING TUM Pm

 

 

ITGWS

lectronic renovation’

 

SEPTEMBER 9, 1997 9

of student computing

BY Curr Wooiuzv

 

Cow EDITOR

Returning students will ﬁnd dra-
matic changes in student computing
awaiting them this school year. Per-
haps the most outwardly apparent
changes have been in the public com-
puter labs around campus, but the
electronic renovations of the campus
computing environment can be felt
even in campus housing.

Incoming students will not have
had an opportunity to become famil-
iar with the older systems around the
University; however, even they will
feel the beneﬁts of the improved lab
and dormitory computing strategies.
This year’s incoming freshman class
represents the ﬁrst class to be auto-
matically assigned network accounts
on the new student computing server,
Jefferson, instead of the old UNIX
server, Liberty. Returning students
will retain their Liberty accounts in ad-
dition to accounts on the new system.

The Jefferson server is running
the latest version of Novell’s
lntranetware, a ﬁle server operating
system which is far easier to integrate
with today’s \}Vindows95 operating
system than past systems. This case
of integration allows for seamless ﬁle
transfers and printing over the net-
work, as well as the use of the Pegasus
e-mail program, which is more user-
friendly than its UNIX counterpart,
Pine.

The ﬁrst minor obstacle students
must overcome to familiarize them-
selves with the new environment is the
login procedure. New students’
usemames are their full last names
followed by their first initial. Retum-
ing students retain the same

usernames they have on Liberty,
which have nomially been their ﬁrst
initial followed by the ﬁrst seven let-
ters of their last name. There is a
catch, however, which requires further
explanation. Users of lntranetware do
not actually log into an individual
server; they log into a tree of network
resources called the Novell Directory
Services. This can give them access
to resources scattered among multiple
servers. The catch is that to access
the tree, the user must specify to the
login program which ‘branch’ of the
tree contains his or her user-object.
Students are divided into sub-
branches by class year; this means that

students must also specify their class _

C C
Improved network ﬁle
sharing is one of the major
enhancements provided
by the new system.

year to log into the network. This is
accomplished by adding a period and
the class year after the usemame, as
in smithj. 01 for an undergraduate
freshman or smithj. 001 for a ﬁrst-year
law student.

Improved network ﬁle sharing is
one of the major enhancements pro-
vided by the new system. Students
can save documents in one of several
places on the network for easy access
from their rooms and the labs. The
‘H:’ drive is mapped for each user to
that user’s individual home directory.
The home directory is personal space
in which only that individual has read

or write privileges. The ‘K:’ drive is
mapped to a shared workspace. Any-
one can read or write to this area, and
items placed there are subject to dele-
tion at any time. However, it is ideal
for short-temi storage or transfer of
ﬁles from one user to another. The
‘L:’ drive is reserved for course work.
Professors wishing to utilize the space
can contact University Computing,
and a separate area for their class will
be created under the ‘L:’ drive. Stu-
dents enrolled in the class will be
given access to the ﬁles and folders
under that course’s directory as the
Professor sees ﬁt.

The other major beneﬁt students
will see is in the network printing
arena. Returning students may won-
der why there are no longer card-
reader devices attached to all of the
laser printers in the labs, and why the
dot-matrix printers have disappeared.
The card-readers are gone because
accounting for the lasers is now
handled automatically by the server
once a user has logged in. Printing
charges are assessed at $.10 per page,
and are billed at the end of the term.
However, undergraduate students
have been given a $20 print subsidy,
so the ﬁrst 200 pages printed per temi
are ﬁee. Users wishing to check their
printing balance may do so by logging
into any lab machine and then click-
ing on the ‘$’ symbol in the bottom
right-hand comer of the screen. The
dot-matrix printers have been re-
moved because of their age and high-
maintenance nature. The print sub-
sidy is intended to make up for the
lack of a free printing facility that the
removal of these older printers has
caused.

University Computing has high
hopes that these changes to the stu-
dent computing environment will fa-
cilitate the ease of use of the
University’s ever-growing base of
computer resources and will allow
users to take better advantage of the
computing power available to them.
Questions about the procedures for the
use of computing resources on cam-
pus can be answered online at the
‘Computing at W&L’ section of the
University’s website, or by contact-
ing the University Computing
HelpDesk at 462-HELP (extension
4357 from on-campus).

£9 RAN K
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

gram, is pleased with W&L’s rank-
ing, but feels that the university would
still be a superior institution without
the status of ranking.

“I can’t imagine reducing the
quality of an institution like W&L and
reducing it to numerical rankings,”
Manning said. “I am pleased that
we’ve moved up in the rankings, but
I don’t think that it’s something that
we should be jumping up and click-
ing our heels about.”

 RATS
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

urges the culprit to come forward and
admit the deed.

“It is the honorable thing to do,”
he said.

Young asks anyone with informa-
tion about the incident to contact him.

    

an
e Phi took a little road trip iiiiiiii in V
ing lots. What we found was enough style to fit a show-_
room and more than enough street value to support a third
world country.
Yuppie Cars - 52 Sedans - 26 »
sport Utility Vehicles - 51 Luxury - 14
Saturn: - 8 Trucks - 7
Convertibles 6 Sports Cars - 4 Grandma Cars - 4
Retu m i ng W&L V
students face *
l'  
po icy changes .

BY JASON ZACI-IER
—S—— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

There are several changes greet-
ing Washington and Lee Students as
they come back to school this fall.
While most of the changes are minor,
several will have an impact on students.

“Some of it is a desire to be pre-
cise in the language for students and
for legal reasons,” said University
Registrar Scott Dittman.

Some of the changes include

ﬂb Changes to five majors:
Chemistry, Classics, English, Music
and Neuroscience.

QD Interdepartmental 110 was
added to the general education options
for Social Science.

fit: The minimum grade-point
average for a major in Independent
Work has been raised to 2.75.

_ The SJC’s policies and procedures
are spelled out in the course catalog.
According to Dittman, perhaps
the biggest change to the catalog lies
within the Automatic Rule.
The Automatic Rule changes
were confirmed by the Committee on
Courses and Degrees and then by the

full faculty. The changes were made
in March and takeeffect this fall.

The Automatic Rule has been
expanded to include students who
have under a 1.0 GPA for two con-
secutive terms. Dittman cited a stu-
dent who had a 0.0 GPA aﬁer fall,
winter and spring terms. Under the old 7
catalog, the student could not be re-
moved from the university until June,
but with the changes, he could have
been removed aﬁer Winter Term.

Any student falling under the’
Automatic Rule is subject to review
by the Committee on the Automatic
Rule and Readmissions.

The other substanitive change is y
with overload classes. Previously, stu-
dents had six weeks to drop an over-
load class, but that has been.changed
to three weeks. The deadline for this

tem is October 1. Also, late pass/fail‘

declarations will require a fee.

Students are urged to visit the
Registrar’s web page at http://
www.wlu.edu/~registra for more in-..‘
formation about the changes, and con-
sult with your adviser about changes
to your major.

The Source

Entertainment
(540) 463-9800

Stonewall Square. Lexington Virginia 24450 ~

Special Student Offer:
Show Student ID and Get
1.) Free Poster of your choice
and

2.) Either cassingle of your choice
(a $3.65 value) or a Free movie rental.

(Certain Restrictions Apply)

September Specials:
All Full Length CD's — $2.50 OH‘

All Full Length Cassettes - $1.50 OH‘

99 cent Action Movie Selection

 

g. .. no hI.V_U‘ x-’.‘s.3.:_v \ .».v.u .9 .v.'>'.~. .-.v.~.~ .» u

-4*

~41

-.\ -av vayq ~.- ‘I av-. ww n ~. ~ .~-. ~. ., , -» n . » . . la .. ‘.0 u -.- ».,v x. .. v vw.-.~ ~.-.v.~.n. x.. x..»_ -34.‘-.\ .v.. ,\.u_.\ 4...» - .»..v<..v..~.-.vv_-.«.v.v.,-

A

X L _
L h-rt. rte‘-'1 -. - £01: an are re: U

. v .'.'¢'A"A'¢VA' .-u -\ - 5Q'm&'§"L'L'lQ

.%.~'..1‘$~. . 5 .52 ..«.. .

  

SEPTEMBER 9, 1997

 

HODGES NAMED TO KNIGHT CHAIR

Professor Louis W. Hodges was named to the new Knight Chair in
June. The Chair,’made possible by a $1.5 million endowment from the
John S. and James C. Knight Foundation, is a professorship that concen-
trates on journalism ethics.

W&L PROFESSOR TO GIVE RECITAL

Professor of Music Timothy Gaylard will present a piano recital at 8
p.m. on Tuesday. ‘ Gaylard will be performing “Sextet” by Donitotti and
I Schubert’s Fantasia in C major, among other works. The recital will be
held in the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts on Sept. 16. Admis-
sion is free and a reception in the lobby will follow the performance.

FALL CONVOCATION

On Wednesday Sept. lo, the W&L year will officially begin with the
traditional convocation. The Fall convocation speaker is Ruel W. Tyson,
J. ’53, professor of religious studies and director of the Institute for Arts
and Humanities at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The
event will begin at S p.m. on the front lawn. .

MATRICULATION

Undergraduate Matriculation will begin at 8:30 am. on Wednesday.
The University Registrar’s homepage claims that the shortest lines will
be between 9:00 and ll:30 a.m.

IMAGES OF JAPAN ON DISPLAY

Artist Nancy Dahlstrom will be showing her etchings and monotypes
of Japan on Sept. 16 - Oct 9. On Sept. 18 at 5:30, Dahlstrom will have an
opening reception and talk to kick of the event. The artist invites the
visitors to “feel the breeze” of Japan with her.

ACTIVITIES FAIR ON WEDNESDAY

The Activities Fair will be held on Wednesday from noon to 1:30 p.m.
on the front lawn. Students are encouraged to attend and learn more about
the various activities on campus. Rain site: Warner Center.

- Compiled by Tom Wadlow

Obituaries
TOM RIEGEL

Journalism emeritus professor.

O.W.(Tom) Riegel, 94, a world au-
thority on propaganda, died August
22, 1997 at Stonewall Jackson Hos-
pital in Lexington, Va., following a
minor stroke the previous day.

His contributions to the study of
journalism at Washington and Lee are
legendary. He introduced the study
of ﬁlm to the school and started

W&L’s first radio station, WLUR-
FM, in 1967. He came to W&L in
1930 as an assistant professor, and
was named director of the department
ofjoumalism and mass communica-
tions in 1934, a position he held for
34 years.

“He was a master ofjoumalism,”
author Philippe Labro said. “He is the
stuff that W&L legends are made of.”

Riegel made a name for himself in
the ﬁeld of propaganda and public
opinion research with the 1934 publi-
cation of his award winning study,

Mobilizting for Chaos:The Story of
New Propaganda.” During World
War II he took a leave of absence from
W&L to become principal propa-
ganda analyst in the Office of War In-
formation.

He was survived by his wife, ﬁve
childrem 15 grandchildren and three
great-grandchildren.

BOYD HORACE

WILLIAMS

Boyd Horace Williams Jr.,75,
former assistant football coach at
W&L died on August 19, 1997 at Vir-
ginia Veterans Care Center in
Roanoke after suffering a heart attack.

Williams was a I943 Syracuse
graduate, where he played four years
of football. Williams played for the
NFL team, the Philadelphia Eagles in
the 1947 season. Williams coached
football at W&L for 37 years.

He is survived by his wife, two
brothers, one sister and two grandchil-
dren.

IIGWS

PAGE 3

   

The College Town Shop
111 W. Nelson St.

MASTERCARD - WSA — AMERICAN EXPRESS — HOUSE CHARGES

0% tllll‘

Men’s Suits and Sportcoats
and
Ladies Sweaters

Our way of welcoming
* all our students!

Serving the community since 1926.

Watch for other upcoming specials in future issues.

*2’ k‘
T‘§;’=‘I.”7“

Experience Springtime
In the Nation's Capital

0 Learn From and Network Among
"Washington |nsiders"

0 live 3 blocks from the White House

0 Produce Radio and TV Advertisements
in Campaign Simulations

0 Bike and Rollerblade by
DC’s Cherry Blossoms

0 Compete as Consulting Groups
on Strategic Lobbying Plans

Make Connections to
launch YOUR CAREER

The The Graduate

r e - SCIIOOI Of
 Political
...s.....o.o~ DC Management

GW is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution

Spring, Summer, and Fall Sessions

GW emester in Washington

An Ilmlcrgratluatc Progrant in Political ltlanagcinent

    

 

For More Information, And To Receive An A lication, Contact:
PP

(800) 367-4776, (202) 994-6000 htlpz//www.gwu.edU/~gspm
Now Accepting Applications On A Rolling Admissions Basis.
Apply NOW! Spring Session Deadline: October 3l, I997

 

7 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VA

 
  

5

‘zit _ilIi'

‘DAN

     

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS

2'72 us on tﬂepcztzb

for your favorite
mixed drink
from our lounge.

FL’; I‘

See our website at httpNvww.webIeat-inc.com/sheridanlivery
35 North Main Street - Call for reservations 464-1887

 

 

    

-«»:§.3:’-:i.'*::§‘:‘3$':'Z:¥«‘:‘E:¥~..e«.

   

W

 

    
  
 

bets 
_2£aJLl.eu1nn¢dl

BY ALEX CHRISTENSEN

FIIMCRITIC

Well, the results are in. The highly anticipated sum-
mer of ‘97 is over, the most recent action-adventure mas-
terpieces have unspooled to record box ofﬁce numbers—~
and can you really remember a favorite moment from any
of them? Here’s a short review of the disastrous summer
that was, with its high points and low points and some
notable points in between.

Catchphrase of the summer. You may have read the

\ tag and thought, “Get off my plane!” or “Woo-wee you

good—lookin’ l” or “If I let you suck on my tongue, would
you be grateful?” or even, God help us, that obscene thing
a whacked-out and whacked—on Demi Moore screams at
Viggo Mortensen in one of the summer’s worst crap-fests,
but no. You didn’t think I’d go for any of those, did you?
(Although I must admit I often turn to myself in the mir-
ror and scowl deeply while growling, “Get off my plane!”
Try it. “Get off my plane!” Oh, yeah.) No, the true
catchphrase of the summer comes from an unlikely source

ﬂfé the children’s basketball-playing-dog movie “Air Bud.”

~ When the coach of the team (Bill Cobbs) tries to put the
iv} dog in the ﬁnal moments of the state championship, one

i of the referees searches frantically through his rulebook,

looks up and delivers one of those lines of dialogue that
will never die, pure Hollywood magic, the reason we go to

. summer movies in the ﬁrst place: “Ain’t no rule says adog can’t

.s'$7'I.\"§‘5's'3‘a\"§\"A‘§‘o.7'a3s”t"A’1"§"1"-5”v.l'¢'K'5‘\."cl'4.l'«.‘t.‘-. . B 1 J ‘ ‘ - — - T W ~ ’ T T - - — n T ‘-

play basketball.” Isn’t that the truth? An honorable mention to
the re-release of “Dirty Dancing,” which still contains that im-
mortal line, “Nobody puts Baby in a comer.”

Best blockbuster. I don’t know how you deﬁne a
blockbuster exactly, but the deﬁnition I’m using here is a
movie the studios made and marketed, from beginning to
end, with the intention of making $100 million or more.
So “My Best Friend’s Wedding,” though it beat “Batman
and Robin” at the box ofﬁce, wouldn’t qualify, though
“Batman and Robin,” while it did only slightly

ing each other masterfully, with an almost ee-
rie glee. The idea itself was a killer. Just watch-
ing them, understanding the concept that each
was supposed to be behind the other’s face, was
alternately unsettling and hilarious, and ulti-
mately more satisfying than it had any right to
be.

Worst blockbuster. Nicolas Cage made his
first bow of the summer in “Con Air” as
Cameron Poe, a prison inmate being transferred by plane
with a bunch of crazy serial killers when the plane is hi-
jacked and holy heck breaks loose. For some reason he
does a silly Southem-fried accent, sadly all-too—typical of
Hollywood efforts. And if you’ve made an action movie
in which the coolest catchphrase is “Put down the bunny,”
you know you’ve failed. Not one believable character,
not one effect that didn’t look just like the teeny model it
really was, no fun at all. No stars from me.

Trends. Of course, this brings up one of the most
disturbing trends of the summer. It seems like every movie
star had two ﬁlms this year: Cage had “Face/Off” and “Con
Air,” Travolta “Face/Off’ and “She’s So Lovely,” Julia
Roberts “My Best Friend’s Wedding” and “Conspiracy

BYLIZDEHER

—— W&I.IFE ASSISTANT EDITOR

hat would inspire a
laid-back women’s
swimming coach who shys
the spotlight to put her heart

Coach Klkl on the line in front of 300 stu-

MOOFC W215 dents and parents? It could
, only be love.

plomoted to During the ODAC

Aquatic DiI'CC[O1' Championships on February
22, Coach Kristin “Kiki”
Jacobs constructed a huge
sign in the parking lot. Just before the race, she called her

team together for a pep talk, but this time, she was the one

 who had thejitters.

“I was ready to have a stroke!” she recalled. The coach
asked the team captains, Laura Marshall, ‘97, and Maggie
George, ‘97, to go upstairs with the banner. ‘‘I made them

cﬂaezmhrzuaci
emwl.
“Get off

my plane ”

Theory,” Alicia Silverstone Batman and Robin” and “Ex-
cess Baggage,” and so on and so on. Even stars who don’t
traditionally carry a movie, like Tommy Lee Jones,
Laurence Fishbume, Patrick Stewart, Mira Sorvino, Gary
Oldman, Andy Garcia and Kelly Preston, all bowed twice
this summer.

Is there some kind of shortage of stars out there? It
seems like Quentin Tarantino is the only director out there
willing to stake his movie on actors because of their ac-
tual acting ability without needing “star insurance.” It’s
good that he is, because Travolta wouldn’t be in the $20
million club if he weren’t. Tarantino understands how
good work creates stars, and not the other way around,
unlike this summer’s movie producers. Think about it. If
“Conspiracy Theory” didn’t have Mel Gibson and Julia
Roberts, it wouldn’t have been rewritten into stupidity
with its unnecessary subplots and goofy breakneck struc-
ture made up of 240 thirty-second scenes. Arnold
Schwarzenegger might not have had to be cast in “Batman
and Robin.” Not that “Batman and Robin” would have
been any better, you understand, but it certainly couldn’t
have been any worse.

The art-house. While the art—house (or independent
and foreign) ﬁlms generally seem to be an oasis from the
desert of Hollywood uncreativity, this summer only of-
fered a few really good ﬁlms. “In the Company of Men”
is the best movie l’ve seen all year, a ruthless and disturb-
ing ﬁlm about two business executives who decide to play
on the affections of a deaf ofﬁce secretary to get back at
the women in their lives. (It also produced a best
catchphrase contender, a weird twist on “Jerry Maguire”:
“Show me your balls.”) Other notable ﬁlms were the Japa-
nese dance comedy “Shall We Dance?”, the British male
strip-off ﬁlm “The Full Monty,” and Nick Cassavetes’s
romantic fable “She’s So Lovely,” with a stunner of a per-

formance from Sean Penn. The biggest art-house hit of .

the summer, however, “Ulee’s Gold,” proved to be an
exercise in boredom and cliche. God knows why the crit-
ics loved it. Peter Fonda wascompetent, but the ﬁlm was

so tedious I’m surprised so many people seem to have",

stayed awake for it.
Fall ﬂicks, winter picks...

In closing, let’s look forward rather than back. Here
are ﬁve sure bets for the fall and winter, in order of sure-
ﬁreness. You heard it here ﬁrst:

“Jackie Brown” marks Quentin Tarantino’s return to

directing. It’s an adaptation of Elmore
Leonard’s ﬁne novel “Rum Punch,” starring

better than “Tnrbni A P°WeT Rangers AdVen' Tun] [0 blaxploitation superstar Pam Grier, Robert
ture,” would. Without further ado, the best Forster of “Medium cool”, along with Robert
blockbuster of summer ‘97 is “Face/Off,” John" J/Out‘-§€]f' Delqlro, Samuel L_ Jackson’ Mlehael Keaton,
. W003 keeky take 0n e0nne'b0°k Snpeneallt)’ _ and Bridget Fonda. It opens Christmas Day.
and absolute action bravura. John Travolta and [[26 111L[]‘01; “U_Tum” marks Oliver gtoners retom to
Nicolas Cage Perfenned One Oftne mes‘ mind‘ “Natural Born Killers” territory, and what amaz-
bending acting feat5 in recent hlSt01')’a Pema)" 'sC0W] ing territory that is. Sean Penn plays a man

trapped in the little town of Superior, Arizona,
as the town’s crazy inhabitants go crazy. The
trailer offers a potential fall catchphrase: “Is ev-
erybody in this crazy town crazy?” Also star-
ring Jon Voight, Claire Danes, Jennifer Lopez,
Billy Bob Thornton, Nick Nolte, and Joaquin
Phoenix, this ﬁlm opens October 3.

“In & Out,” from writer Paul Rudnick
(“Addams Family Values,” “Jeffrey”), features
Kevin Kline as a teacher who is outed by a former student
at the Academy Awards. Also starring Tom Selleck as an
openly gay tabloid reporter, the ﬁlm opens September 19.

“Gattaca” features Ethan Hawke and Uma Thurman
in a ﬁlm about a future in which everyone’s destiny is
determined by their DNA. A job interview consists of a
quick needle—stick. What happens when Ethan Hawke’s
character tries to switch identities? Look for it on Octo-
ber 24. ‘

“Tomorrow Never Dies” is the latest in the Bond se-
ries, and Pierce Brosnan’s second. Featuring Jonathan
Pryce as the Bond villain, with Michelle Yeoh (“Super-
cop”) and _Teri Hatcher as our femmes fatales. Opens
December 19.

For whom the (wedding) bell tolls...
Swimming coach ties knot

promise on their honor not to look at it until their names
were called.”

Coach Jacobs announced, “For those of you who know
me, this is not something I would nomially do. Sammy,
please look up over the timeclocks.”

Six hundred eyes turned in the same direction to read the
words, “SAMMY, WILL YOU MARRY ME?” Much to her
delight, Mr. Moore responded “Yes” to the big question. “We
alljust about fell in the pool!” said junior Laura Goodwin.

Senior swimmer Kendall Cruickshanks remembers “It
was kind of atypical Kiki. The seniors who opened the ban-
ner were really honored, and we were all shocked and thrilled
for Kiki and Sammy.”

The team went on to win the meet, and ﬁnished the
season well under the direction of Coach Jacobs -- now Coach
Moore. A 1989 graduate of Dickinson College, Kiki Moore
has been coaching at W&L since 1991. She also teaches
Lifeguarding, First Aid and CPR, and swimming.

“The coach is kind of quiet, really warm, easygoing, and

I lacking. This weekend the Inter Fra-

. ing Club sent the members of the class»o=f52001»' a let-

 

SEPIEMBER 9, 1997

BY SYBIL PRINCE
STAFFWRITER

tween freshman orientation
ctivities and the slew of par-
ties this week, the social scene

in Lexington deﬁnitely hasn’t been

temity Council will throw another log
onto W&L’s burning ﬁre of night life.

The ﬁrst IFC-sponsored band
party of the academic year will be on
Saturday night.

W&L favorites Magraw Gap and
the Convertibles will heat up the night
with their original music.

The concert will start at 5 p.m.
and continue until 10 p.m. on the soc-
cer/lacrosse practice ﬁeld, according
to IFC Junior Justice David Lehman.
The rain site is the Pavilion.

Magraw Gap, one of W&L ’s most
popular bands, entertains students
both on- and oﬂ-campus with their
progressive bluegrass music. PH0T()
(.'()l/RTIYSY 01> ARNE K I/HLMANN

’ :3” *2

, '°'''!‘%u. ucnnnﬁ“

 

‘Q9 It’s “bonding,” not hazing...
Over mountains, through forests,
across rivers, the 2,159-mile
Appalachian Trail traverses 14 states
from Maine to Georgia. Last week,
Outing Club members led 35 new
students on a small stretch of the
world famous path.

BY STEPHH\I Pi«3ci~:

STAFF Wanna

Over 30 freshmen and eight upperclassman hike lead-
ers set out on a freshman orientation favorite Sept. 6: the
overnight hike along the Appalachian Trail.

Early this summer, the Washington and Lee Out-

ter about the hike. Since only 35 students couldbe
accommodated, participants were selected by a lot-
tery system from the 133 who expressed interest be-
fore the application deadline.

When these frightened 35 arrived
to meet the hike leaders Tuesday af-
ternoon, none could expect the won-
derful experience that would follow.

The hikers were separated into groups of about
10 people. They knew few, if any, of the other
group members, yet all would soon acquaint them-
selves with the hopes, fears and just plain wacked-
up idiosyncrasies of the others. Some would use
words such as “wicked.” Some would not say
“y’all.” And still others had never heard of a grit.
(First of all, never speak of “a grit.” They are a
team, a package deal and prepared on a stove,
not in a microwave. As is made unmistakably
clear by one of the witnesses in “My Cousin
Vinnie” (a movie destined to be a classic), “No
self-respecting Southerner ever eats instant grits”)

Though each member of the group displayed individual
strengths and weaknesses, all united under the common
bond of a unique adventure. The hike provided the oppor-
tunity to spend time away from the traditional college par-
ties and university-arranged activities to truly get to know
other freshmen in real life.

One freshman claims that the trip was “the best intro-
duction to W&L possible. I now have over eleven friends
whom I know I’ ll stay in touch with, which has also boosted
my mind-set for meeting new freshmen as a whole. It was
wicked cool!”

The four groups hiked miles upon miles of tough ter-
rain together; learned that they all need some cooking les-
sons; and, most importantly, learned that each must lend a
helping hand to others for the sake of the whole.

The true heroes of the trip were the group leaders. Not

takes things as they come,” said Goodwin. “She
doesn’t sweatthe little things. She’s a great coach, and always has
time for everyone; she’s not just concerned with coaching.”

The wedding was held at the
Trinity United Methodist Church on
Main St., and followed by a recep-
tion in the Dining Hall. The center-
piece of the D-Hall’s decorating
scheme was the famous banner.

The wedding wasn’t Kiki
Moore’s only cause for celebration
this summer. She was recently
promoted to Aquatic Director,
making Moore the ﬁrst woman to
hold that position at W&L. With
a new men’s swimming coach and

 

   
  
   
  
 
 
 
  

 

a new assistant this year, Moore
looks forward to a “good year and
lots of changes.”

 

Upperclassmen help
a freshmen take a hike

only were the eight upperclassmen knowledgeable about
hiking necessities, but they were also down-to-earth and
understanding. These students, like all other Washing-
ton and Lee students, bent over backwards to make the
freshmen feel comfortable. The leaders became friends
with, as well as advisers to, the freshmen as they got an
early taste of the W&L experience of fun, teamwork
and respect in the relationships with group leaders.
Group leader Brian White remembers a night spent
watching the sunset and the stars atop the Priest and
says that the leaders enjoyed the trip just as much as the
freshmen did.

White believes that the trip accomplished its
goal of getting the freshmen to have fun and feel
comfortable with the new setting. He adds that al-
though this was most freshmen’s first long hike
‘ and the physicalstrains were demanding, the hik-
ers feel proud of their accomplishment.

The true tragedyiof the freshmen hike is that all
were not able to participate. Next year the outing club
 hopes to increase the number of partici-

V pants to 55. This will require upperclass-
man support.

_ Fortunately, opportunities to par-
ticipate this year in outing club activities
abound. Those freshmen who were not able to go
on the hike are invited to the freshmen day hikes
on Sept. 14.

Outing Club Coordinator Nick Tatar says that
the club hopes to hold ﬁve activities per week.

Club membership is only $20 for the entire year
and allows participation in all club hikes and classes

and the use of Outing Club gear. The university
also offers backpacking classes for physical edu-
cation credit. Further information about the
Outing Club and its activities may be obtained
from Nick Tatar, club members, the club’s
newsletter, The House Mm. Shadow, or the main
bulletin board in front of the co-op.

Many thanks to Nick and the upperclassmen who
generously gave their time, effort and support to the
freshmen who participated in the hike.

Meet Caleb...

It’s a job that will change a life. If you are
interested in psychology, special education,
speech development or social science, apply to
join the team of instructors who teach ﬁve-year-
old Caleb Lambart, son of W&L Professor Ken-
neth Lambert and Professor Demaree Peck.
Take advantage of this opportunity for a mean-
ingful job, an internship for course credit or the
beginning of a deeply satisfying career. Com-
pensation is commensurate with experience.

Call 464-1420 to find out how to get involved.

Y

Y

"Q

-t

 

  
   
 
    
  
 
  
 

0
SW”  € 

   
   

    

    

 

 

‘V
H.
V
'1
‘v
I": random
feed‘.
4
t i———H~«—~l
l 2 3 L
N
— <s.c MAP I=A<1'omr®
4
0 F L E x I N 4 H 0 N SuPer-secret Coloring Contest!
Color this  suhmit itfothe 
oﬂioe at the [Jniwcrsify Center.
W.
‘V BY DOUGLAS BROWN & ROBIN SEATON Stair Case average student, but definitely
R3rAU’W” CR1-“C5 Bar & Grill worth the trip.
Hi. We are Doug and Robin, restaurant critics for Good American The Sheridan Livery Inn
The Ring-tum Phi. AS such, we visit assorted restau- cuisine, good atmo— We have always found the Inn
tents around the State, Often With friends, and Fe-P0ft sphere, great prices consistent and enjoyable, although
“ - ' our findings back and appealing spe- we know others who do not share our
to the Campus. cials. An excellent high opinion of this relatively new
For this, the place if you are look— establishment. It is worth a visit; we
f“:5t issue Of the ing f°t' 3 Change hope Your experience is 35 P°5itiVe Well worth the drive, cruise up I-81 to Exit 213 to get to the Pink Cadillac
V Rmg'mm Ph‘ 5 frm“ the D’ha“~ 35 °“r5 ha“ been Diner. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR.
100th year , We haVe II Palazzo Edleweiss German Restaurant
decided to provide a our Italian champ Our next review, a quaint little place near the Pink German like Doug’s, and you miss her home cooking, or
brief recap of the in Lexington. Always Cadillac, offers great German food. If your-mother is if you just feel adventurous, then this is the place to try.
five reviews We very consistent food
9{ did last Spring term quality and service; a _
and a look at great place for your Meet Doug 8: ROb1I1...
what’s to come. parents to take you 11 P I h b I 1.
Franco’s Italian or for you to take a azzo’  e git ta mi? ‘We began Our reviews in late April, critiquing a differ-
. , restaurant in Lexington, IS on d eek. the Phi, . [em . T
Amust not See’ that Special date‘ North Main Street HOIIISIER em restaumm 62 1 W m S spmg 1 mm 0
U Probably the poorest Prices are reason- Hm/FY/PHOTO ED[T‘0R " establish numerical ratings, we examine five aitegoricsz Pep-
service and worst able, and the portions ‘ ' PCT G1'ind5'yP0Wdt—'f ROOH1, 55'Vi0C, Food  and F00d
Italian food we have are p1entjfu1_ Preparation Our scale ranges from zero to five, with the latter
“ ever been victim to. The Pink Cadillac Diner 35 the highest mark
.F The Stair Case is located on Lee Spend your money A really neat place; take a step back into the For more information Or I0 View Our archives, Please
‘ Avenue, across from Chi Psi. on Chef Boyardee 1950’s, complete with Elvis, good food and awe- C0h5U1t Our Webpageat hitp//WV"W-Wiu-etiu/"Phi/f€5tI€V/-"
HOLLISTER Ham’/PHOTO EDITOR. instead. some milkshakes. Perhaps out of the way for the
4

PARTY, MEET PEOPLE and GET PAID     Mt» ALL SAINTS OF

P mot KODAK - B 2* t - . NORTH AMERICA

, Wi:l)lpayyoeu m.emmy'5.?,£'Z‘§’e...eLiaAm_$'§ mm» 5’ g"'”"’? h RUSSIA ORTHODOX
NO F<lSK..we handle all the bookkeeping. geﬁtriww» Grit-a CHURCH

21 West Nelson Street

 13 Virginia 24450 DIVINE LITURGY: 10 a.m.
gto ’ (Except the 3rd Sunday of the

month - call for information)

if L  CLASS  Prints, Furniture, Gifts, Accessories Father John Moses
1_800_222_ 540-887-8280

 

John and Pam Cole (540) 464-3399 L2’n°f."§§2‘i,"t.'l’.'."ii‘:'f;';'§§’Jt'§°§‘f"
., our  year Owners Staunton in Middlebrook

 

      9.-n--C0,,   We Want you!!!

,& I2, 2% _   , ,  

I &° Cleaners f),   The Rlng-tum Ph1 1s

- QualityDry Cleaning andShirtLaundry looking for reporters,

‘  ::u;epr::;t:hng photographers, and  

-Fmesmse   -Learheclelﬁng anyone looklng forward
""“""‘°°°“"“""“"“”“ to long nights with

SnmmitSquaneBusinessCenter

 P Wn”:,o'j,“$;,j;*;‘,,5, neurotic people.
463-2261

Storyboard is Wednesdays at 8 p.m. in the Phi Office

 

PAGE 6

 

ADVICE

the women that as soon as winter
rush starts, all the great male friends
you have will burrow their way into
the house of theirchoice and will not
show their heads until pledgeship is
over. “ "

Big Brother is watching you. The
Greek system can resemble George
Orwell’s “1984.” Remember, the up-
perclassmen are already memorizing
the Freshman Facebook. Soon, they‘ ll
know who your are, so watch your
step.

To those of you who are not plan-
ning to join a sorority or fraternity,
RUSH anyway. I didn’t and really
regret it. You’ll meet tons of new
people, and who knows, you might
discover Greek life is just your style.
There is a lot of diversity among the
five sororities and fifteen fraternities
on campus.

Lex Vegas

Don’t let the size of the town fool
you. This little city has a lot to offer.
Hopkin’s Green makes a great resting
place on the weary walk from
Davidson Park to the Dorms. Wayne
at Night Owl can get any record or CD
overnight and for a dollar less than
anyone else in town. On weekends,
Domino’s delivers until 2 a.m. and
Lee Hi is open all night. You haven’t

lived until you've watched television
with the truckers (and showers are
only $5.)

A word about Wal—Mart: watch

yourspending. I swear my entire credit
card balance is the result of impulse
purchases at the superstore. I know
it’s tempting to charge that booney
Toons toilet seat, but trust me -- and
your parents -- just say no!

H A N G I N ’

O U T Senior
Noah Egorin
visits female
friends on the

third ﬂoor of
Graham-Lees
during his
freshman year.

The Last Word

Finally, do everything that is hu-
manly possible. You are in a very
unique situation.

I know communal living can be a
disaster, but it is the only time you’ll
have 25 best friends who are always
willing to go to a Wednesday night
party, even if they do have an 8 a.m.
Thursday class.

The Ring-tum Phi Online
http://www.wlu.eda/~phi

1897: The Ring—tum Phi publishes its first paper issue

1997: The Ring-tum Phi publishes to the World Wide Web
Be a part of the tradition.

Be a part of the newspaper everyone is talking about.
Be a part of W&L history.

We like monkeys!

- .--_ V. ‘s, .
 x_i . .  ..,» ..  .

We deliver direotly to the dorms and apartments.
We aooept all major oredit oards.

Looated near oampus with all the things you need for your oollege student.

Oylaae  ................... ..;f,?,?.50
 .................. ..a¢»?0.00

 .................. “$135.00

gwwmzefoac/twoéﬂodécwaéeé .................... $125.00 am/at
 .................... ..¢z¢/.5.00cMza//t¢

 .................. “$7.50
 ..................... ..¢f35.00
6/ca Wynn we *%4mam’./t @¢7)

advertising

113 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va 24450
Phone: 403-0152 or 1-800-505-0250

SEPTEMBER 9, 1997

 

loin-Emma. Elm.

102 w. Washington street  1
Lexington, Virginia
Welcome Back Students

Suits...

Coats, Blue Blazers, Interview Suits
'Ties—Accessories—Pinpoint dress shirts—Ernbassy Boxers/
Underwear—Ray Bans—Rans—Red Wing B00ts—Duckhead Pants
Tuxedos...

Sales, Rentals, l()0% Worsted Wool
W&L Belts...

“A must for all W&L rnen”

Shoes...

Bass, Clarks,\]ohnson 8c Murphy, Sperry-Topsider
Woolrich...

Shirts, Sweaters, C)uterwear
W&L Wear...

Ties, Dog Collars, Caps, Straw Hats

463-5383--—VISA/MC--Student Charge Accounts

TA________.

”A Lexington Landmark”

463-791 1
For Good Food... Good Times. . .For Good People

Welcome Freshmen
Join the tradition and make
“The Palms” your special place.

Mon-Fri 11:30 am - 2:00 am
Saturday 10:00 am - 2:00 am
Sunday 10:00 am - 11:00 pm

101 West Nelson Street 0 Lexington, VA
VISA, MasterCard & Discover Accepted

HOUFS3

 

 

F3
3
Cl)

     

   

li.l - lil
* g iiexingtnn Hair Design ‘§
This Weeks Weather 3 W8 wmﬂmemwk 3
+ ' Ll vvtfn 20'/. off any service 1.
‘”°""°‘°“"“’ "‘"'s"°" Sum’ M°"da" E To Students on Tuesdags E
.r l: , L‘
 2 tall for Amit. @ 463-3344 or 2
3' stop by @ 14 #3.! Nelson St. §
0. 0.
1 High: 75° High: 74° High: 73° High: 72° High: 72: High: 74:
Low: 61 Low: 55 Low: 53 Low: 52 Low. 50 Low. 52 (540) 464-‘ I45
1 Courtesy of the National Weather Service
_ :::: T. SHEAR TIMING
V   HAIR sewn
1 - - - $2.00 offwith R I“
3 <     1- i this coupon wglgmmzﬂiz
" E Listen to the music before you
buy. Great selection of
s new 8. used

  
   
       
     
   
  

TURN YOUR user: CD’S
INTEI an CREDIT $1.DD WITH
ANY MUSIC STORE coupon

, http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

3 _ M—S lO:O0—9:00
V‘ NOW, using your computer, you can: Sun l2-8 173 Main St 464_3645

- Check the latest campus news, features, and opinions G/[he 3319-11111’! 
. Check the latest Generals’ sports scores ' Lexington Laundry Service

- Read your favorite columns V  ’ U  and

‘f - Link directly to our websites of the week

- Check U.S. and international papers using our links T H  E    O N S

V - Subscribe or advertise from our online request forms 22 N‘ M3~i"_S§5.Set’ «!%9~§i"gt°"
Open: 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Teresa Dattolo, Owner
Monday-Saturday _ 464-4001

3 Oasis

ha 9 eveicqttw i rig i:or*

HU"9"Y? i  BACKTO SCHOOL

   

, Then call Domino's and get... Gm“ eoug Cloth“
' Any Pizza Swejtens 9
/)   ilgjoleg _?yoo|JCC‘ogE:—( S A
n Ian apes mes pnea s
  Cards Ej—< Stationeicq
  ’ Any Toppings Calif“
$  I $  Unique Jeweipq
' 7_____   7____ Great prices

e   ‘ii    Hours: Mon.— Sat. 10-6
4 6 3 -7 3 7 5 117 W. Nelson St. Lexington 5”“ 1'5
1

23 South Jefferson
661,‘ a two /iter soda for $1.00 and or (fan mags for $3.99 with
I purchase of any pizza.

Delivery always available.

Breakfast Lunch Candlelight Dinners
Fine Wines Imported Beers
Cappuccino Espresso
Homemade Baguettes 8 Croissants

   

f . _ _ Outrageous Desserts
  8!   
4 college Ill
Fraternities / Sororities:
~' Call ahead for the Domino's Pizza Party Wagon to stop at your

next function!!!
(One week advance notice please.)

  
   

 
   

19 W. Washington St.
540 / 464-1900

3 lively bistro
& outdoor patio

 

 

 

 advertising :

E Southernlnn studenm... E  

W ‘N    Main Street   You are invited tn ‘
-    _ Tavern spend Sunday Evemng

at the Southern Inn.

If you liked it    * ii
in the B08... _ :
Yawn low it  ﬂaue you éeen éuéy f/LL./o ,
in the ’90s.'     W94?

4  52$ clown and! raga Ll/I:tA your /¢‘ienc{:5.
NOW Offenng  Cafe:/L up on w/Lat Ac:/9/aeneal If/tid weeé.

mmmmwM   
' between '  Mm A2 éem/ea! a ale/Iciou./5 v

  
  

. 4 ._-.-‘..‘_$g .'.'L'_’ T. ‘"3.’ i. ,. V
  .  11:3o&2:00  ,4 W1 2 »/1 4 AW
.. kc ‘ ' O‘: _. J: K, ' - I 01719171, 9 VVLQQ. ll/Lt Out a Pg? L 0

 

SUNDAY NIGHT ‘

SPECIALS     ‘
$5.00 i L , M

PREPARED ESPECIALLY FOR You!  I

Take a Break from Fast Food!
Sit Down for a Good Home Cooked Meal with your Friends!

Less than a 5 minute walk from campus! ' E
DownuwwwLemngunw             
37 South Main Street F    %s_ ;;ieeiee? 3 E    ; 

  SW33’   

   

 

 

/ai

' ion

E rial

Pxca-9 Sizer. 9, 1997
Proposing changes

Three months have changed Lexington very
little. With the exception of several new addi-
tions at Virginia Military Institute, our corner
of Virginia has withstood the forces of change
with admirable grace and predictable banality.
Which is not to say that things have to remain
the same. Keeping with our university’s motto,
we’d like to look ahead to a year of improve-
ments at Washington and Lee.

First, we should make an effort to drink
more responsibly. W&L has established itself
as a wet campus with a strong Greek presence.
Neither of these characteristics need change.
However, we should consider which we value
more highly: our own health and the safety of
others or our ranking in national drinking polls.
It’s all right to drink, but we should be careful
when we do. Excessive drinking is dangerous,
drunks are burdens to others and hangovers
aren’t fun.

Second, W&L would do well to encourage
more debate and thoughtful discourse between
its students. Last year’s meeting of Trident
columnist Glen Miller and G&L chairperson
Alex Christensen was a good start. If through
our discussions we decide that W&L needs to
change, then we have opened new opportunities
for ourselves. If we should decide that we don’t
need or don’t want to change, then at the very
least we have further defined who we are as a
university. Nothing bad can come from more
meetings in Northen Auditorium.

Third, U.S. News and World Report re-
cently ranked Washington and Lee as one of the
eighth best liberal arts colleges in the country.
Eighth? How did we. allow all those other
schools to become better than us? Why should
we settle for less than the best? Why not ﬂex a little
academic muscle? I would like nothing better than
for W&L to move up the charts the next time around.
When we do, we’ll be able to tell certain magazine
columnists just where to stick their rankings.

Last, we would rather not attend another rap
concert for Fancy Dress this year. Coolio was fun;
A T be Called Quest was okay; one more rap con-
cert woulg robabl kill u§6all_w§gre we stood. For
the most part,. th fudent Activities Board does an
excellent job’of riiatching the bands they hire to our
diverse tastes. However, if Puff Daddy shows up at
the Pavilion this March, we would have to wonder if
the SABI were purposefully trying to antagonize us.

We wishieveryone the best this year at Wash-
ington and Lee University. Despite what others
may have to say, we still believe that it is the
best school around.

6
‘QUOTEOFTI-IEWEEK

Bathe regularly.

- parting advice from a father to his
freshman son

@1112 itling-tum iﬁlii

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor HiIIaryCoombs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Kathryn Mayurnik
Tom Wadlow
w&Iife Editor Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Da v Id Balsley
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Cliff Woolley
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Designer

Asst. Advertising Designer

Rebecca Cuny
Matthew Craig
Douglas Brown
Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub-
scription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica-
tions Board elects the Executive Editor and Business
Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office. room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for
content and length. Letters. columns, and “My Views"
do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-
rial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of
The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Great women
remembered in
differing ways

The deaths of two of the
most respected women in the
world came as a shock to ev-
eryone last week, but the true

the Right
Zacher ’98

Phi Executive Et.iit<)r—

tragedy of the situation may
be in the way the two are be-
ing remembered.

No one can doubt the im-
pact and reach of Diana, Prin-
cess of Wales. Her untimely
death will be mourned by mil-
lions around the world. She
was a woman who could look
at a cause and make the world
suddenly care. When she
spoke about an issue, we lis-
tened intently, and wherever
she went, the crowds and
paparazzi followed. She made
sure that her son, Prince Wil-
liam, would grow into the
throne of the United King-
dom with a knowledge of the
world’s poor. But Diana also
was the Princess of fashion
and style — a 90’s equivalent
of Jackie Kennedy.

After watching hours
upon hours of continuous cov-
erage on Diana’s death on
CNN, MSNBC and other net-
works, announcers broke in
quickly to tell the world
Mother Teresa had passed

away from a heart attack.
Then it was back to Diana and
the tragedy of her death.

Examine the
women’s work.

Mother Teresa was born
in 1910 in Macedonia and
became a nun at age 18. Years
later, she entered the slums of
Calcutta, where she was not
accepted. She adopted the
local dress and customs, and
over time became an institu-
tion in the city. In an age
when it is becoming unfash-
ionable to give handouts to
people, she did not care. She
said she was doing the Lord’s work.

The Calcutta slums are
where Mother Teresa made
her fame with the Missionar-
ies of Charity, and after re-
ceiving the Nobel Peace Prize
in 1979, she told the audience
to disband the banquet and to
give the proceeds to the poor.

Mother Teresa owned vir-
tually nothing —just two sa-
ris and a prayer book. She
was nothing like the Princess,
who showed the world she
cared at a shelter and then
went back to Kensington Pal-
ace or the Ritz Hotel at night.
There is no doubt that Diana
cared about the less fortunate,
but she did not have to live
their life.

While Mother Teresa’s
fame was made in the slums,

{W0

Diana lent her name and fame
to land-mine victims, AIDS
victims and many otherchari-
ties and causes. She visited
shelters for the homeless in

great human being, who de-
serves to be remembered with
extended coverage on CNN.
However, Mother Teresa’s
death should be the lead story

on the

London and
told Prince “

evening
William that HOWeVer, M0th€l' newsandin
I” was "°“° Teresa ’s death should ‘he '“°""
addressheras ing paper.
Princess in be the lead story 0" DidMother
front of the the evening news and T e r e s a
homeless - - think about
People in the morning paper. death?
“We are )) “No,”

all humans,” she reportedly
told him.
Princess Diana was a

she said. “I see so much of it.”
I suppose people are re-
membered the way they lived.

Mother Teresa lived a
godly life of service and pov-
erty. Princess Diana lived the
public life, always in the me-
dia spotlight. lonly hope that
Mother Teresa’s state funeral
on Saturday will be covered
in the same way Diana’s was,
so the world may mourn the
passing of a soul who’s pres-
ence on Earth made the world
a better place to li.ve.

No matter what their dif-
ferences were, both Diana and
Mother Teresa will be missed

by the world. May both of._

these great women rest in
peace.

Fabricating the whole ‘truth’ about W&L

Hey, freshmen and all you upper-
classmen whose minds haven’t been
completely erased by alcohol, do you
remember the college search? Re-

e Looney Bin
inMcManemin ’OO

member how much weightlyour mail-
man lost after delivering tons of col-
Iege brochures to your house? Re-
member how idyllic they made life
sound at the various institutions? Re-
member the misleading doublespeak
intended to make every cut rate com-
munity college sound like Harvard?
Unfortunately, Washington and
Lee’s brochures aren’t a model for
truth in advertising either. While the
Honor System prevents the adminis-
tration from outright lying, its mem-
bers find clever ways to hide the whole
truth. The people this hurts the most
are the freshmen. They expect one
thing, and then get here and find out
that, as the French say, n’est pas un

gros renard. Got it? No? Oh, dear.
Look,just hurry up and finish reading
this garbage so you can go out drink-
ing again.

I “small classes” — of the 63 stu-
dents scheduled
for your 8 am. @(

might get salmonella, trichinosis or
E-Coli at the D-hall.

I “world renowned” —- approxi-
mately seven people outside of Rock-
bridge county have heard of us.

I “prepare for
the future” — sell

class, only five
will show up.

 I“ “offers
many opportuni-
ties for casual con-
tact with faculty”
— our perverted
professors often

“small classes” -- of
the 63 students
scheduled for your 8
AM class, only five
will show up.

out early.

I “founded in
1749” — actually,
I guess this is true.
Sorry.

I “one of the
best colleges in the
South”—and lynch-

ask out buxom
co-eds.

I “an affordable education” —— if
your name is Rockefeller.

I “build friendships that will last
a lifetime” — and many more that last
only until the liquor wears off.

I “meet students from different
backgrounds” — white guys from
Massachusetts, white guys from Cali-
fornia, etc.

I “many dining options” — you

’) ing free since 63.
I “students can make valuable
business connections” — to get a pig

farming internship.

I “wide variety of social options”
—- wide variety of Greek letters.

I “located in the historic commu-
nity of Lexington” — people live in
19th century buildings and have 19th
century ideas.

I “many cultural opportunities” —
German beer, Irish beer, Dos Equis, etc.

But enough W&L bashing. It’s
time for VMI bashing!

I “rigorous and demanding physi-
cal regiment” —— organized torture.

I “courses designed to develop
critical thinking skills” -— which you
will ignore when your officers order
you around.

I “students gain a new sense of
self-respect” — students get lame-ass
haircuts.

What’s that you say? You want
some Swarthmore bashing? Well, I
don’t see why, but OK.

I “diverse student body”——— I think
we might even have a couple hetero-
sexuals!

I “get a complete education” —-
learn about hubris, ego, arrogance,
pretentiousness, etc.

I “learn to appreciate those with
different beliefs” — except, of course,
for rotten stinking conservatives.

Be sure to tune in next week for

part two: Carnegie Mellon bashing,’

University of South Dakota bashing
and lots and lots of Vassar bashing!

Exploration yields heavenly idleness

The other day I met the
man who was in charge of
turning the stars on and off.
He’s retired now and lives in
a spherical dwelling high up

My View
Tom Monaco ’01

in the Appalachian Moun-
tains. Every once in a while,
the man will tempt momen-
tum with some movement in-
side his dwelling and it will
roll down the side of the
mountain. The man is usually

angry when this happens, but
he always gets out and rolls
the dwelling back up to the
mountaintop.

The only thing that really
upsets the man is the fact that
he was forced to retire from
his job because of the actions
of the human race. You see,
in the days before space travel
this man had a schedule which
told him what stars he should
turn on and when he should
do it. This schedule was set
up according to the various
times of sunset in each region
of the earth. As long as there

was the schedule, the man was
happy because he had a pur-
pose; however, then the hu-
man race decided to screw
things up by exploring the
universe outside of the earth.

The day that the human
race first reached space, the
man had his dwelling set up
just a few miles away from
the sun. The sun happened to
be a very good friend of the
man, and they happened to be
in the middle of a discussion
on interstellar relations when
they were interrupted by the
emergency indicator flashing

inside the man’s dwelling.
Seeing that the human
race had acquired the ability
to extend beyond the bounds
of Earth’s atmosphere, the
man was forced to turn on
every star in the galaxy in-
definitely. The problem that
arose was two-fold: first,
since every star had to be kept
on, their life span decreased
immensely, and second, the
only thingthat this man could
ever do was now obsolete. So,
because of the audacity ofthe
human race, both the friends
and the livelihood of this man

were put at risk.

' Fortunately (or maybe un-
fortunately for humans) this
man does not take things ly-
ing down. He says he has
retired to the mountains of
the earth, but I know better.
Just like he is never discour-
aged when his dwelling rolls
down the mountain, I am posi-
tive that this little setbackwon’t

get him down. In fact, I believe.

he is inside of that sphere right
now plotting the destruction of
the space program. Maybe he’|l
succeed, maybe not, but he is not
going to give up.

the  Mn"  79

e I c e aw» e s
[few [0 [do ea/oioec

Letters to the editor can be e—mailed to phi@wlu.edu, deposited outside room 208 in the
University Center or left in our mailbox located across from the Dean of Fun in the University
Center. Letters should be limited to five hundred words. Letters may. be edited prior to
publication. (We’rc editors. We can’t help ourselves.) Anonymous letters will be published upon
approval of the Executive Editors. Please keep in mind the following when you writeyour
letter: we will be more willing to print letters which deal with timely, important issues, written in

a manner which would not embarass you or this paper.

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us at 4624060.

 

  

Race 10 I

§sTATs

]-There ar  freshmen
from  states and 1 1

foreign countries. f. more

students are from Texas than from

Virginia. A whopping 76 stu~

dents served as editors of  high
school newspaper, yearbook or literary

magazine. Only  paca1t of

the frosh Went to private school. About

one~f'ou:rth

receive financial aid.

SEPTEMBER 9, 1997

Q 5 p.m.

Convocation

Front Lawn

O7 p.m. The

Ring-tum Phi

staff meeting.

All are

welcome.

9 8 p.m.

Small group

individual

 activities
Today Wed. Thursday
0 4 p-m- Q 8:30 a.m. 0 First Day
Minority Matriculation Of 3011001 1)
5‘}‘d_°“‘ 9 12 p.m. O P a r t y
Rfjjgﬁffgg Student @H°b6S -
the Chavis Actlvllgdeij iigrgiogiglﬁz

House

 

J U ST TR U C KIN’ Seniors Mary Pressly, Jenn
Bucky, Katie Gibbs and Jen Owens dressed as truck

drivers for Halloween I 994. FILE PHOTO

N I G H T O F
M U C H F U N
Holly Thomsen,
Justin Riedell
and Kathryn
Mayurnik stop
dancing at a
sorority formal
to pose for a
picture.
Thomsen and
Mayurnik are
now rival
editors at the
Trident and the
Ring-tum Phi .
FILE PHOTO

Friday
0 4 p.m.
volleyball
Q 4-8 p.m.
WREL’s back
to school bash

@ Davidson
Park

0 Band
Party @
Sigma Nu
Baker
performing
QBand Party
@

Sigma Phi
Epsilon. Last
One Standing
performing.

soccer

0 5-10 p.m.
IFC/
Panhellenic
band party
McGraw
Gap and the
Convertibles
5-10 p.m.
Lacrosse
practice field
unless it
rains, then at
the Pavillion.
Nothin’ else
is goin’ on.

 

Sunday

0 Call
local "church
for service
times.

§Be

Prepared for

early
morning
phone calls
from the
Parents.
0 Only
one month
left unitl
Reading
Day. You
must, plan
your vaca-
tion now!

anniversary with us!

Name:

I
I
I
I
I Address:
I
I
I

The Ring-tum Phi
Attn: Matthew Craig
University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

Subscribe
The Ring-tum Phi

Keep in touch with Washington and Lee
events with The Ring-tum Phi, Washington
and Lee's oldest campus newspaper.

Return with a check for $30 to: Matthew Craig, Circulation Manager, The Ring-tum Phi
University Center, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

I
L113—1-g—¢g:111::111$::111111-1111

Since 1897, the Phi has covered all aspects
of W&L campus life. Celebrate our 100th

A subscription to the Phi costs only $30 for a full year (25 issues). Get all .
of the campus news, from the Freshmen's first day to the Seniors‘ last. It's easy
to do, just return the form below with your check for $30 to:

rjjjjjjjjjjjfjjjjijjZZZZZZ:1ZjZZ?1

Yes! I would lilze to subscribe to The Ring-tum Phi

Ljjjjjjjjj

WHATI T/Vrsz-'IIK:z\71«:'WAsA

COURINEY MILLER
E>cEcUnvE EDrroR

This is to the class of 2001. I was in your shoes three
years ago, free of my parents, their rules, their curfews, free
to do whatever I wanted. It felt great and still does. There
are, however, so many things I wished I’d known. Ask
anyone who knew me three years ago. I was naive. Maybe
some of you have already been advised by your team
mates, or upperclassmen friends. But there are lots of you
——a lot— like me a little clueless, a little lost and a little
scared.

You’re doing great. Most of you found Aqua Velva
Saturday night. Although y’all didn’t get tear gassed like
the class of 1998, it was a pretty crazy night. Here’s a little
free unsolicited advice picked up from countless conversa-
tions l’ve had and people I’ve asked, “What do you wish
you knew your freshman year?”

The Hill
Grade inﬂa-
tion is a myth. If
you were hoping
to get a four point
. the first semester,
forget about it.
Few professors
understand the
late nights and
hoopla of your
freshman year,
but most expect
pupils to be
awake and ca-
pable of speech.
Second,
registration does
not get any
easier as you get

FREsH1vr A N

older. The lines will always be long and no matter how
early you get up, someone will be there before you.

If you want to get an understanding professor, consult
upperclassmen for the real low-down on a professor. Your
advisor, caring as he or she may be, will not divulge this
crucial information.

The Dorms

This will be the place where the best memories are
made. Become friends with someone who has a room
facing the quad. Those windows are the best place for
people wathching. Domino’s will take at least $100 from
you by the year’s end. Roommates can be wonderful.
There is nothing better than late-night chats about abso-
lutely nothing with people you never thought you’d meet.

D-Hall

The food may seem great and endless, but six months
and 20 pounds from now things will seem a little bit
different. A word on University Cards: Dont ever forget
them and don’t lose them. Bad things will happen to you,
trust me. lt’s $10 to replace the sucker (I lost mine three
times freshman year.) Actually there’s more bad news
about that card the picture is permanent, so even now when
I show my ID, people see my foolish freshman face.

Apricot Glazed Pork Loin will appear on the menu
once too often for comfort. Theme nights: Teh quality of
the food does not improve in propotions to the number of
square dancers whirling by your table. The midnight feast
during exam week is a must. I mean a must.

The Greeks

I thought Greeks were a figment of Hollywood’s
imagination — having created such great films as “Animal
House” and of course, the Nerds series. I hadn’t a clue
about the extent or reach of the fraternity system. The free
beer, great bands and innumerable formal events explain
the long tradition of the Greek system at W&L. I must warn

(I)SeeAD\/ICEpage6~

Al Vull rmru I/Ill’,

fsiicnr OWL MUSIC COS

Open 11 san. ’til 7 pm.
-Friday

11 mm. - 5 pan.
Saturday

25 8. Jefferson Street

Lexington, VA 24450 ,

Between 1112 Palms ‘ 464-.4050
& Domino’s Pizza .

 

NEW & USED
COMPACT DISCS
CASSETTES & LPs

 

Everyday Low Prices on New Items
($‘1.’00 Less Than List Price)

FREE Fast Special Order Service
(2-4 Days For Most New Items)

music stop.

Order by e—mail at

Lexington's original, REAL alternative efe  G

nightowl@rccl<bridge. net

Be Sure to
visit Lexington’s
Oldest Music
Reseller.

  Wayne at
Night Owl Music!

backroom art

gallery to support
local artists.

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, Va 24450

  pogo9.Qo’

Ladies Shoes, Clothing and
Accessories
(540)463-5988

Welcome Back Students !

 

Y’

~.r

