 
 

i

   
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
    
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
  

   

/lfc//I
«,’3’7?«"/35

‘x/. '17 (9
Mn .2“

C«'.//-

 

VIEW SLIDES FROM INDIA:

Students of anthropology shouldn’t miss Ann Grodzins
Gold’s lecture “Bringing Mother Ganges Home: Death and
Pilgrimage in North India” on Monday, March 31.

Gold is professor of anthropology at Syracuse University,
and she will present slides from her work in North India. The
lecture begins at 7:00 p.m. in Northen Auditorium; the public
is invited to attend.

CELEBRATE POETRY MONTH:

W&L will celebrate National Poetry month in April with
a display in Leyburn Library including photographs by VMI
professor of English Gordon Ball.

An Emily Dickinson bookmark will also be available from
the library. The national sponsors of poetry month will
distribute copies of T.S. Eliot’s “The Waste Land” at partici-
pating post offices around the country on April 15, Tax Day.
Please see related article on the features page.

ATTEND NUREMBURG LECTURES:

The Nuremburg Trials will be the subject of a lecture in the
Moot Courtroom of the Law School on Thursday. Bernard D.
Meltzer, professor of law emeritus at the University of
Chicago Law School will present “The Nuremburg Trials: A
Retrospective book.” A reception will follow the lecture.

BECOME A BIG SIBLING:

Applications for the Big Brother/Big Sisters program are
available outside Carol Calkins’s office in the University
Center. Completed applications are due next Wednesday.

ORDER FD PICTURES:

Students interested in purchasing FD pictures must place
orders by next Tuesday. Order forms are available next to the
photograph display in the University Center. Students can
pay by cash, credit card or check. Prices vary by size of print:
4x6, $3; 5x7, $5; 8x10, $6.

JOIN PI SIGMA ALPHA:

Applications and nominations are now being accepted for
Pi Sigma Alpha. Students must have taken at least 10 credits
of Politics with an average of at least 3.0 in those courses.

In addition, they must have junior or senior standing and
be in the top third of their class. Applications are available in
room 203 of the Williams Commerce School. The deadline
is April 30.

GET YOUR QUESTIONS ANSWERED:

The Williams Commerce School will hold advising ses-
sions for prospective majors and for non-majors who may
want to learn more about a specific course. Fields of study in
the Williams School include accounting, economics, man-
agement, politics and public policy.

At the advising sessions, faculty and upperclass students
will be available to meet with students and answer questions.
Refreshments will be served.

The Class of ‘99 session will be held 7 p.m. April 28 and
the Class of ‘00 will be held 7 p.m. May 5. Both sessions will
occur in room 327 of the Williams School.

SIGN UP FOR P.E. CLASSES:

Spring term physical education department offerings are
now available on the University Registrar’s web page. Regis-
tration will be held the ﬁrst day of Spring Term.

HAMMER SPEAKS ON. FAUNA:

William R. Hammer, director of Fryxell Geology Mu-
seum in Illinois, will give the American Association of
Petroleum Geologists Lecture entitled “Evolutionary and
Biogeographic Implications of an Antarctic Jurassic Dino-
saur Fauna.”

The public is invited to attend the lecture in room A214 of
the New Science Building on Friday.

—-COMLPILED BY PEGGY STuNTz

     
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
    

#

 

 

 

‘P OPINION
Courtney talks about the definition of sexual
misconduct. Laura questions Clinton's position on

«campaign finances. A dictionary of W&L terms.

> FEATURES

:The
§Virginia’s Spanish The-
I ;ater group will bring the
fdevil to stage in “Don
§Fausto.”
4iJarrard advises maintaining your regular schedule
gduring finals week. Remembering Jack Kerouac.

f> SPORTS

.'Women’s lacrosse improves t 9-1 with wins over
Colby & Mary Washington. Me ’s lacrosse drops its
first game of season to Roanoke. Women’s tennis
tops three teams to move to 12-2.

University of

Professor

 

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

Students re-enact Civil War life

BY TARAH GRANT
PHI NEws EDITOR

Across the street from the freshman park-
ing lot, there is a row of C ivil War cloth tents,
and a woman in a hoop skirt and bonnet
stands over an open ﬁre, stirring a kettle of
beans. Three men, dressed in Confederate
uniforms and carryin g muskets, emerge from
the woods behind the Liberty Hall Ruins.
Their hand-made leather shoes kick at the
tow path, causing little clouds of dust to form
around their feet.

“I think them boys got lost in the woods, ”
one of the soldiers says.

His friend wipes the sweat from his

forehead. He thinks the Yankees are hiding.

“Maybe they think they ’re going to ambush
us or something. ”

The alluring scent of lunch drifting from
the camp quickens their pace. “ Well, they ’re
going to be waiting a while, ” the third adds‘,
and the hungry men laugh

Washington and Lee University’s Lib-
erty Hall Volunteers sponsored a Civil War
living history demonstration at the Liberty
Hall Ruins Saturday to share theirhobby with
other students. The event included a Civil
Warcamp, a morning bayonet exercise, Civil
War music, ﬁring demonstrations and what
Lieutenant Leo Decanini (‘95) described as
“really nasty, raunchy food” which guests
were invited to sample.

“We try to portray the lifestyle of the
original company,” Decanini said. “We try
to educate others, but it’s mostly to educate
ourselves about what [the Liberty Hall Vol-
unteers] went throug .”

“And believeitornotitisﬁIn,”said Ginny
Windley from Stuarts Draft. “If you like to
camp and you have an interest in history, then
you can combine the two.”

Twenty students are involved with the re-
enactment group dominated by male partici-

    

The Liberty Hall Volunteers
demonstrate their hobby to a
student audience.

Proud mother telephones son ’s former professor

Alumnus helps in Clinton surgery

The surgery, which took about two hours, was per-
fonned that afternoon at the National Naval Medical
Center in Bethesda, MD. Clinton came through the

BY ERICA PRossER
PHI STAFF WRITER

to y Lora Ellison

    

  I

Photo by Lora Ellison

Ginny Windley cooks for Leonard Rorrer and Jason Ridenour.

pants. “There are a few girls in the unit too,
but we try to portray the actual Liberty Hall
Volunteerswhich\didn’tinclude any females,”
Decanini said. Female members dress in
period clothing and act as camp followers,
nurses, cooks and mouming widows.

The group participates in approximately
10 events per year, including re-enactments,
living histories, parades, barn dances and
class demonstrations.

Battle re-enactments are usually a week-
end event. The participants set up camp
Friday evening and receive battle strategies
and itineraries. There are battles all Saturday
and a final battle Sunday afternoon.

“It’s generally a pretty hard way to spend
your weekend,” Decanini said. “You learn
a lot more from spending time on the ﬁeld
than you do from reading in class. You learn
how cold it really was during the war, how
many days in a row you can be wet, how long
you can go without sleep, how sore your feet
can be.”

Washington and Lee University alumni have
been known to hold positions of power in Con-
gress, the Supreme Court and other institutions.
But few, if any, of them could claim to have

operated on a president with a bum
knee. Dr. Joseph Campbell Jr., W&L
‘86, is one of those few.

On March 14, President Bill
Clinton stumbled and injured his
knee while staying with Professional
Golfer Greg Norman at his home in
Florida.

Doctors described the damage done to
the President’s knee as “substantial,” but
the operation wasa fairly common pro-
cedure with no anticipated problems,
according to K.P. Foley of Radio Free
Europe/Radio Liberty, Inc.

for several weeks.

surgery without complicationsbut will remain on crutches

Dr. Michael Pleva, W&L chemistry professor,

The most memorable re-enactment for
Corporal ErikSampson, Liberty Hall Volun-
teers’ President, was in Standardsville two
years ago. The Confederacy was planningto
have an open morning battle and the generals
selected a couple of companies, W&L’s
being one of them, to march out to the
battleﬁeld the night before and hold a bridge
all morning until the rest of the army came
around and met them.

‘fWe went out there very quietly and very
secretly and got everything organized,”
Sampson said. “It got down to 20 degrees or
something that night, and [each of us] only
had two blankets if we were lucky, most only
had one blanket. So, we were basically lying
out on this bare hill, not unlike it would have
been up here on the Ruins, with the winds
blowingover us and just about freezing. And
the next morning didn’t quite go as planned
so it was kind of a disappointment.”

“[The Union troops] knew we were there,
and the battle started without us,” Decanini

  
 

A 12-1 ' V

‘s~'.1k8rtu .t«?:'i‘:ju_aI 

APR ti 11997

Bulk‘ Rate
US Postage
PAID

Permit No. 7
Lexington, VA

MARCH 31, 1997

I ‘ iwﬁshiitgton. College library was also

 

. W&L during
-ti.II3e“CIvr‘l,rWar
  21864, General
~;..Da,vid Hunter led
 22,000. Federals into
“the Shenandoah Val-
»1.eY-'  011 Q31!!!“ .10»
%=’;Tf!O0p§—’entered IeI_r~ _ i
‘ mgton andbnrned a substantial portion
‘ , .of;tI1etowIt,.i_nc1uding all but one of the
i ;buildingsTat Virginia Military Institute.

  

0;;  —Aceording".te-‘legend, a group of
I §;Union.soldiérsr  throwing rocks at
-V on itopiof -Washington Hall
‘  anofﬁcer asked whatthey were
doing. ‘.‘.‘We’re going to knock old Jeff
Davis .I:ight‘oﬂthc top of that too .”
“"Ihat’snotJet¥Davis,”
1 “thHe_ ofﬁcer Said.” "l‘hat’s the father of
‘tfityouroountxyﬁ "the Union soldiers im-
1 1I:ediateIy‘stopped and walked away.
  ;"IfIrat’s. basically. why the ‘college
-was‘n’t,burne,d or destroyed or ran-

.  Senior Dave Seidel said.

said. “So we did all that for nothing.”

“Those are the kind of experiences you
read about but you don’t understand until you
do them,” Sampson said.

The majority of the members consider
themselves to be “Civil War buffs.” In
addition to participating in events, the mem-
bers spend their time reading and learning
about the original Liberty Hall Volunteers.

The “original, original” Liberty Hall Vol-
unteers were students at W&L, then Liberty
Hall Academy, who formed a company to
help protect the Shenandoah Valley from the
British in the Revolutionary War, according
to Decanini. When the Civil War started,
studentsrecreatedtheoompanytoﬁghtagainst
the Yankees. The names of the 79 men,
mostly W&L students and graduates, who
composed the Liberty Hall Volunteers Co. I,
4th VA Infantry are inscribed on a plaque
inside Lee Chapel. Through the course of the
war, approximately 140 men eventually
joined the corps as replacements.

The biggest research project for the group
over the last couple of years has been trying
to recreate the Liberty Hall Volunteers’ flag,
according to Sergeant Dave Seidel. Going
through old newspapers, they have found
several conflictin g accounts of what it looked
like. Once they find a description they be-
lieve is reliable and accurate, the group will
carrytheirreproduction withthem whenthey
travel to events.

“Liberty Hall Volunteers are part of the
University’s history,” seniorlason Ridenour
said. “There isdeﬁnately a pride in represent-
ing them.”

The group hopes to make the living his-
tory demonstration at the Ruins an annual
event.

Law students
sentenced

BY ERICA PRossER
PHI STAFF WRITER

The Student Conduct Committee found two

    

91*. ?%’~'+\.' i.lM'/<:?:“."
L!!! JO-‘UH’
l.E7t3>‘¥¢Y(_mg VA 3.3

       
 

C:

Campbell

    

.2 

 .~,_g . ,r<,-ye

said he received a telephone call from a “proud
mother” saying her son had been one of the sur-

geons present for the presidential op-
eration.

The woman’s son, Campbell, is a
surgical intern and Lieutenant at the
National Naval Medical Center in
Bethesda. He is originally from Buena
Vista, VA, and he attended medical
school at the University of Virginia
on a scholarship from the United
States Navy.

While earning his B.A. at Wash-
ington and Lee University, Campbell
was a member of Lambda Chi Alpha
fraternity.

DuPont exhibits students’ work

FROM PHI STAFF REPORTS

The annual Washington and Lee University Student
Art Exhibit opened last week in duPont Gallery. Works
by students of Professors Stene, Olson and Purdee are

on display.

Students are invited to view the exhibit and attend a
make-your-own ice cream sundae reception Wednes-
day outside duPont Hall. The gallery is open 8 a.m. to

5 p.m. Monday through Friday.
The show ends next Thursday.

In other art news...

Professor I-Hsiung Ju, Emeritus Professor of art at
W&L, has his work displayed at the McGuffey Art
Centerin Charlottesville, VA. His show, “East Meets
West,” contains 24 brush paintings in ‘oriental
style Chinese ink on rice paper but depicts Ameri-

can SCCTICS.

An opening reception will be held Friday from 5:30
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the center, 201 Second Street, N.W.

The show will end April 27.

  

Students’ art on display in gallery.

 

Photo by Hlit véy

first year law students guilty of “drunken bellig-
erence”after entering an undergraduate’s Woods
Creek apartment without permission on Feb. 23.

At approximately 2 a.m. on the last day of
February break, the two drunken students mis-
took C2 in Woods Creek East for the apartment
above it, one of the C2 residents Sophomore
Becca Harris said.

After climbing up to the balcony, they entered
the second story apartment through the balcony
door, which was not locked. Harris said she
heard the men searching the apartment for some-
thing to eat.

Kendra Archer, another C2 resident, was sleep-
ing in her bedroom when she heard the men in the
apartment. They pounded on Archer’s bedroom
door, but she had locked it before she went to
sleep. When the males realized they had entered
the wrong apartment, they started joking about
how the residents must think they were Charles
Manson, Archer said.

‘‘It was very amusing,” Archer said. “I wasn‘t
scared, but I’m glad my bedroom door was locked.”

As soon as the men left the apartment. they
were arrested by the police. Neither Archer or
Harris called the police, however Harris speculates
they were keeping an eye on the apartments because
it had been a night of “revelry.”

In Tuesday’s SCC hearing,atotal offour male
first year law students were found guilty of
“drunken belligerence”fortheirbehaviorthatnight.

Two students received social and con—
duct probation until the end of Fall Term
1997. The other .
two students
were sentenced
to social and
conduct proba-
tion until the end
of Winter Term
1 998 with the
penalty to be re-
viewed at the end
ofFall 1997 con— ,
tingentonthe stu- 
dents seeking alco-
hol counseling.

    

Photo by 
Lock your doors.

  

 

OPINION

The Howard Stern of WLUR

“OK, so Fancy Dress‘ like sucked and stuff. Now here ’s some Dave Matthews.”

Reflections on receiving an Oscar

This week, for the first time in my
life, I watched the 69th Oscar Awards,
and I couldn’t have picked a better
year. The nominations were unique in
that I hadn’t seen a single one ofthem.
Consequently, I believe I should have

My View
Brian Rosenberg ’00

been invited to judge, since I would
have been truly objective.
As you know, the awards are not
' decided by judges. (Had they been,
I’m sure “The English Patient” would
have won anyway for its spectacular
performance in the Swimsuit Event.)
Instead, they are voted on by the entire
academy, and electoral votes are del-
egated depending on how a certain
genre of actors voted.
For instance, ifthe majority ofcom-
edy actors voted for “Fargo,” then the
movie would receive three electoral

votes. If the majority of dramatic
actors voted for “Shine,” it would
receive five electoral votes. If the
majority of twisted, artistic,
Tarantinotic actors voted for “Spain

“Then again, I was
also a 3 year old
drool bucket with
little on my mind

except eating
mouse ditties. But
now, here I am.”

Trotting,” it would receive 265 votes,
plus $3 off its next purchase of sun-
glasses.

These electoral votes are then cast
by a group of delegates called,

Betsy recalls top
stories of the year

In Phi time, we have come upon
the end of the year. What better way
to commemorate it than to review the
major news stories of the year?

Hazing. I don’t know if anyone
remembers this, but earlier this year,
The New York Times published some
pictures of fraternities at an unnamed

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

school engaged in hazing. It was rather
damning that most of the pictures in
the article are in the brochures W&L
sends to prospective students. The
administration immediately clamped
down on hazing and made certain that
fraternities would not haze or have a
hell week. A few incidents of hazing
were reported, in which freshmen were
forced to listen to upperclassmen bitch
about how easy the freshmen had it and
how winter rush sucks. In an unrelated
event, last week most of the freshmen men
oncampusindependentlychosetocometo
class in coat and tie, Stop-in reported a
record amount of freshman males oorning
in to buy hot dogs and Harris Teeter sold
out of peanut butter.

Ring—tum Phinancial Troubles. You

. may have read in that other campus news-

paper that the Phi had a few ﬁnancial
troubles this year. (Apparently, in fact, the
paper tried to save money for the last two
weeks by usingconsiderablylessinkon the
pages.) The Phi plans to regain some of
those lossesby simply re-issuingold news-
papers, cutting back staff trips to our Cay-
man Island condominium and switching
from imported to domestic beer. At this
time, we’d like to offer some ﬁnancial tips
to help others avoid falling into the same
troubles we did.

(1) If someone writes you acheck,
cash it.

(2) You can be overdréfwn and '

still have checks left.

(3) Do not hire Willie Nelson as
your business manager.

Kappa Delta colonized. Wash-

ington and Lee added a fifth sorority
this year, Kappa Delta. Rush was
successful for KD, and the women are
eager to begin new traditions on cam-
pus. Kady, a new initiate, told the Phi,
“I think KD will really feel they are
part ofthis campus when other sorori-
ties create an insulting deviation of
our name. Also, when people start to
stereotype us. Then we’ll know we’ve
really arrived.”

Phi Delt and Sigma Nu go dry. In
one of the stupidest moves of all time,

“In one of the
stupidest moves of
all time, the
nationals of Phi
Delta Theta and
Sigma Nu
fraternities have
declared their
intentions to ban
all alcohol from the
fraternities by the
year 2000. ”

the nationals of Phi Delta Theta and
Sigma Nu fraternities have declared
their intentions to ban all alcohol from
the fraternities by the year 2000. As if
not getting to haze the pledges weren’t
bad enough. Upperclass Phi Delis and
Sigma Nus all agreed that “This blows.
I’m glad l’ll be out of here before that
happens.” Freshmen simply wept,
though perhaps it was from the com-
pletely coincidental lack of sleep they
all had experienced in the past week.
Glen vs. Alex: The Debate That
Wasn’t. Throughout the pages of that
other newspaper, a war of words waged
between conservative humor colum-
nist Glenn Miller and G&L President
Alex Christensen. Alex challenged

strangely enough, “delegates.” After
these votes are cast, they are brought
to the President of the Academy, Os-
car. Oscar then shreds and burns all of
these votes and awards the Golden
Baby to the producer who has the
thickest glasses.

This year, however, something
went awry in that there was appar-
ently a tie between the producers of
“The English Paper” and “Jerry
McGuire.” Rather than moving to
the directors’ glasses, which I would
have suggested, they gave the award
to the only movie with the word “the”
in it. I was furious. By that reason-
ing, “The Cable Guy” should have at
leastbeen nominated.

Anyway, I got to thinking about
the lucky few who get to receive such
a tremendous honor and what I would
do in their situation. I came up with
this, my acceptance speech.

“Wow. I don’t know what to say.
[Standard intro.] I can’t tell you how
much this means to me. [More stan-

dard intro.]

“You know, fifteen years ago, I
would have never pictured myself here.
Then again, I was also a 3 year old
drool bucket with little on my mind
except eating mouse ditties. But now,
here I am.

“I couldn’t have achieved this
award for Best Audience Member at a
Jim Carrey Screening without the help
of several special people. I first would
like to thank Jim Carrey for making
the movie. I also would like to thank
my parents, who gave me the money
for an education, little knowing what
I’d become by spending that money
on popcorn and Juju Fruits. Finally,
I’d like to thank the Pepto Bismol
company for helping me be the only
one in the theater to sit through such a
horrible film.

‘‘In closing, I want to congratulate
my fellow nominees and wish them
the best. Especially you, Siskel. I
thought it was all over when I saw you
in a two-piece!”

Glenn to a debate, and the whole campus
turned out, hopingforbloodshed, or at least
a clever war of insults. No such luck, with
the debaters being fairly respectful toward
one another. The most interesting part of
the debate came when an audience mem-
ber stepped out of her closet to say, “I want

to know why Glenn has only made fun of
gay men. What about the ‘L’ in G&L?
Where are all the lesbians?” Miller an-
swered that lesbians did not bother him,
calling them “hot” and “way cool.”
Christensen said he was pretty sure they
just hadn’t met the right man.

OK, English majors and assorted
fans ofcynicism, how many ofyou
are familiar with Ambrose Bierce’s

My View

Kevin McManemin

New W&L dictionary
to aid in explaining
typical student life

“The Devil’s Dictionary”? What’s
that? None of you? Good, then no
one will call the EC when I rip him
off with my own version.

John Tesh’s Dictionary

class It Something to do between
weekends.

college I: The best four years of
your life, considering you’ll spend
the rest of your life in prison.

D-hall n l. The only place in Lex-
ington with more rats than VMI. 2.
Aplace wherethe bread is as stale as
the Republican party.

fraternities n Groups who share
Greek letters, German beer and
French arrogance.

G&L n l. The only non-Greek
homosexual organization on cam-
pus. 2. A place where the phrase
“kiss my a**” might be seen as an
invitation, not an insult.

general education requirements
It Attempts to instill in you a love of

learning by forcing you to study
subjects you couldn’t give a rat’s
a** about.

independent thought It 1. A cre-
ative, original idea. The last‘per-
son on this campus to have one
may have been Robert E. Lee.

pledgeship n A time when paddles
are raised and grades are lowered.

professors n 1. People who talk in
your sleep. 2. People you pay to
help you succeed in life, who then
give you really low grades and ruin
your chances of succeeding in life.

TheRing-tum Phin Name chosen
for campus paper 99 years-ago
when the other choices of “Dingy
Dangle Dongle” and “Geby Geby
Geby Geby Zoo” were decided to
be too ridiculous.

VMI n An institution that pro-
duces killers almost as effectively
as New York City public schools.

Washington and Lee University
It A place with more drunks than
Ireland. (Note: With a name like
McManemin, I’m allowed to make
Irish drunk jokes, so forget the
complaint letters and have another
one, my countrymen.)

weekendsnThe only days you have to
sleep; unfonunately,alsothedayswhen
you get the least sleep.

it

IVIARCH 31, 1997
Sexual misconduct~

definition

Rape. It is one of those four letter
words that is still considered taboo.

According to Webster's Dictionary
rape is deﬁned as: “sexual intercourse
with a woman by a man without her

Life on the Hill
C. E. Miller ’98

consent and chiefly by force or decep-
tion or unlawful sexual intercourse by
force or threat other than by a man
with a woman.”

What is your definition of rape?
Many colleges across the nation are
redefining the definition to include
provisions for date rape and a type of
rape classiﬁed as sexual misconduct.
Under these provisions students,
mostly male, are prosecuted for hav-
ing intercourse with a drunk female.
In fact, at Brown University an indi-
vidual can be convicted of sexual mis-
conduct if a person is aware of intoxi-
cation or should have been aware of
intoxication.

Here at Washington and Lee irre-
sponsible and excessive drinking is
common, but are students being taken
unfair advantage oi‘? Does our policy
on sexual misconduct allow excessive
drunkenness to become an excuse for
behavior?

According to the Student Hand-
book Policies and Procedures for the
1996-97 school year, sexual miscon-
duct is defined as“inappropriate physi-
cal conduct or threat of a sexual na-
ture.” '

One of the examples given for
sexual misconduct that could be inter-
preted to apply to our discussion is
“Sexual intercourse without consent —
by means of force, threat, intimidation
or victim incapacity.”

I take incapacity to mean passed
out. This leaves a wide range of other
possibilities. What if consent is given,
but not remembered in the morning?
Do we allow the males on this campus
to use drunkeness as an excuse as
well? Does the defense of “I didn’t
know what I was doing” hold up for
both males and females? These are

questions each of needs to-answer to '

insure that the sexual misconduct
charges reflect our beliefs and atti-
tudes on this campus.

Sexual misconduct charges are

unclear

.'.
handled by the Student-Faculty Hear-
ing Board. They are empowered to
assess various penalties ranging from
a reprimand to dismissal from the Uni-
versity. The four student members are!»
appointed by the Executive Commit-
tee, and the four faculty members are
appointed by the Dean of the College,
but the EC is allowed to suggest can- a
didates. I‘
University mediator Dean Anece
McCloud discusses the incident with
the persons involved to explore the

3

“There are no set
ground rules to
interpret what I
is and what
isn't sexual
misconduct.
There is no black
line, only a fuzzy.

gray area.”

possibility of resolving the problem t5
the satisfaction of the parties. The
mediator cannot impose sanctions. It
appears to me that the real power lies
in this position, especially for the gray
area of drunken sexual misconduct.
The mediator is the first to hear com-
plaints, and it is her job to find an
informal resolution.

If the mediator cannot resolve the
conﬂict and the complainant wants to
go ahead, the case is heard by the
SFHB. These are the people who
make the final judgment as to whether
the action is indeed sexual miscon-
duct or merely irresponsibility.

Our policy is certainly not on the
same level as Brown University, but
we also don’t have any protection to
guard against such claims. There are
no set ground rules to interpret what is
and what isn’t sexual misconduct.
There is no black line, only a fuzzy

*' gray area. I happen to believe that if it’

weren’t for alcohol, there would be a
lot less sex on this campus. [just don’t
know where the line between sex and
sexual misconduct falls.

7
“Being born in a
rrstlan ome oes »
Ch ’ ' h d
h ' ' 1‘k
C r1st1an. Just 1 e ,
being born in a trunk
doesn’t make
. 1
t 0 99
you a lI'€.
- Baptist minister on Easter Sunday .
- or . o
(‘I112 itlmg-tum lit Y
Executive Editor ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord
Managing Editor ........................................................... ..Hiilary Coombs
News Editor ....................................................................... ..Tarah Grant
Assistant News Editor ....................................................... ..Tom Wadlow V
Editorial Page Editor ........................................................ ..Jason Zacher
Features Editor ............................................................... ..David Balsley
Assistant Features Editor ................................................ ..Andrea Ewing
Photographers ..................................... ..Holiister Hovey. Mark Slomiany
Business Managers ....................................... ..Neal Kohl. Blake Lovelace I
Advertising Assistant ...................................................... ..Rebecca Cuny
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the undergraduate

school year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding

for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription Y
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-
dent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters. All
submissions must be in the Phi office. room 208 of the University Center. 1'
by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi
reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters,
columns. and “My Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel F
and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Otlice Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450 7»
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
V

 

 

MARCH 31, 1997

W&1ife

 

PAGE 3,

UVH Spanish Theater group

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

If “Evita” piqued your interest in His-
panic culture, the next production to visit
Johnson Theater may be right for you.

The University of Virginia Spanish
Theater Group will present “Don Fausto”
Saturday in Johnson Theater. The perfor-
mance, which is being sponsored by the
Lectures Committee, combines the Faust
story with Argentinean culture.

The University of Virginia Spanish
Theater Group specializes in “producing
plays written in Spanish for North Ameri-
can audiences,” according to the play’s
handbill. Since its incarnation in 1980,
the group has performed at universities in
Virginia, Washington, D.C., North Caro-
lina and other neighboring states. The
troupe returns to Washington and Lee

  

after appearing here as part of the Na-
tional Symposium on Theater in Aca-
deme last year.

“It’s an amateur group, but the perfor-
mances are incredible,” Assistant Pro-
fessor of Romance Languages Cathleen
Cuppett said. Cuppett, who performed
with the group for two years while doing
her graduate work at UVA, is coordinat-
ing the troupe’s visit.

“Don Fausto,” the group’s current pro-
duction, sets the Faust story in Argen-
tina. The play depicts Don Fausto’s de-
sire to be young; his consequent tempta-
tion by Juan Sombra, the devil; and his
lust for Margarita, a woman who is much
younger than himself. The play will fea-
ture traditional Argentinean dance and
costume.

The visit by the University of Virginia
Spanish Theater Group offers several op-
portunities to students, including the

chance to enrich their understanding of
Spanish, as well as the occasion to meet
published Spanish authors.

“It’s promoting Hispanic culture and
language,” Cuppett said of the play. “It
takes language out of the classroom, out
of the textbook, and makes it alive.”

In addition, four of the actors in the
play are professors, representing the coun-
tries of Columbia, Peru and Spain. One

.of the professors is a published Spanish
poet. Another is the UVA writer-in-resi-
dence, an Argentine novelist who has
based a character of one of his novels on
W&L’s Associate Professor of Romance
Languages Jeffrey Barnett. The Lectures
Committee will sponsor a reception in
Gaines Gatehouse immediately follow-
ing the performance to allow students to
meet these writers and professors.

presents Don lE]USTOi

“How often does an Argentine novel-
ist come to W&L?” Cuppett asked.

The play should be enjoyable for stu-
dents who may not have a strong back-
ground in Spanish.

“The director told me that this play is
more accessible because of the familiar-
ity of the Faust story and also because of
the singing and dancing in the play,”
Cuppett said.

In addition, an English plot summary
will be provided.

Cuppett encourages students and fac-
ulty to attend the performance.

“They come right to our doorstep: you
just have to walk to Lenfest,” Cuppett
said.“They do fabulous productions.”

“Don Fausto” will be presented at 7:00
p.m. Admission is free. Anyone inter-
ested in attending the performance can

    

opportunity.

BY B.J. WALKER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Keeping with your regular hedule wiﬂ help

As ﬁnals week slowly begins to sneak
up on us, most Washington and Lee stu-
dents have been hit by an endless stream
of papers, tests and stress. Luckily, there
are several simple things you can do to
help make it through the week.

“There is a good deal of data that
supports the idea that spreading out
studying helps students to remember
much more,” said Professor Leonard
Jarrard, Professor of Psychology.
“Gradual studying so much better than
cramming.”

Jarrard alsopointsoutthatbyspread-
ing studying over a week or more,
students will feel much less stress right
before the test.

“I think the most important thing
anyone can do is keep generally to the
schedule that they are used to. Any
dramatic change in the schedule can
seriously affect their circadian rhythm

According to Cuppett, this is a rare

acquire tickets by contacting Professor

Cuppett at 463-8898.

and only add to stress,” Jarrard said.

For this reason, Jarrard does not
recommend that students get any spe-
cifrc amount of sleep. A recent report
argued that students should aim for
eight hours of sleep a night and ten
during stressful times. Jarrard does
not see this as the best policy.

“Each individual needs a different
amount of sleep. Some people are ﬁne
on four or six hours; othersneed ten.
The main thing is to get plenty of rest
but to stick to the schedule that your
body is accustomed to.”

This policy also applies to eating
and exercise.-

“Students should make an effort to
eat at the same time every day. It
keeps the body in the rhythm that it is
used to. As for exercising, if a student
is used to exercise, it is important to
keep doing it. It may help relieve
some stress. But again, it all depends
on the individual.”

As for “caffeine enhancers,” they
are also interruptions to the body’s

during

natural cycle. Water Joe, coffee and
other caffeine-rich drinks keep you
awake, but they are no substitute for
sleep.

“They‘are effective in keeping you
awake but, again, your body’s circa-
dian rhythm will be out of alignment,”
Jarrard said.

In the end, a tired mind remembers
much less than a rested one.

There are also certain depressants
which should be avoided, such as alcohol.

“Alcohol contains a nervous system
suppresser which lowers the activation
level of the brain. Even a very small
amount can interfere with attention to
detail and memory. It is probably the
worst thing that a student could do during
exams,” Jarrard said.

Jarrard’sbasic message wasclear: plan
ahead and keep to your regular schedule.
Naturally, finals are a stressful time, espe-
cially when the warming weather calls.

“By spreading out studying and keep-
ing to a schedule, things should go much
easier,” Jarrard said.

BY ANDREA EWING
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Jean—Louis “Jack” Kerouac was born
intoarrriddle-class French—Canadian fam-
ily, in Lowell, Mass. As a small child he
learned to speak a local dialect of French
called joual before speaking English. The
youngest of three children, Kerouac be-
came terribly upset when his older brother
Gerard died of rheumatic fever at the age
of nine.

Known as Ti Jean as a child, Kerouac
was described as serious and intense, a
boy who loved his mother and continually
formed friendships with other boys. (This
would carry on for the rest of his life.)
Kerouac wrote stories from a young age.
He was first inspired by the radio show
“The Shadow” and later by the writer
Thomas Wolfe.

Kerouac’s family began to suffer fr-
nancial difficulties when his father began
to gamble in the hope of restoring the
family to the prosperity it lost when their
hometown economy declined. Kerouac
hoped to save his family by obtaining a
college football scholarship and entering
the insurance business. A star back on his
high school football team, Kerouac re-
ceived a scholarship to Columbia Univer-
sity.

Columbia was where things began to
go wrong. Kerouac fought with the foot-
ball coach, who then refused to let him
play. Kerouac’s father lost his business
before becoming an alcoholic. Confused
and depressed, Kerouac dropped out of
Columbia, greatly disappointing his fa-
ther. He joined the military (World War II
had begun) and ended up a sailor in the
Merchant Marines.

When not in uniform, Kerouac hung
out in New York with an “unsavory”
group consisting of depraved young Co-
lumbia students Allen Ginsberg and
Lucien Carr, an older friend named Wil-
liam S. Burroughs and Neal Cassady, a
“street cowboy” from Denver.

Kerouac had begun to write his first
novel, very stylistically reminiscent of
Thomas Wolfe, about trying to balance
his “wild city life” with his “old-world
family values.” The manuscript was ap-
preciated by Kerouac’s “group,” and
Ginsberg asked his Columbia professors
to help ﬁnd a publisher for the work. “The

the   eat

neration by remembering’ Jaolz Kerouac

Town and the City” was Kerouac’s ﬁrst
and most conventional work; It earned
him some recognition as a writer but did
not make him famous.

While working on his novel, Kerouac
had taken some amazing cross-country
trips with Cassady and began experiment-
ing with freer forms of writing, partly
inspired by the “unpretentious spontane-
ous prose” of Cassady’s letters. He wrote
about the trips exactly as they had hap-
pened “without pausing to edit, ﬁctional-
ize or even think.” The resulting manu-
script became “On the Road” which was
not to be published until seven years later.

Kerouac spent the early 1950’swritin g
one unpublished novel after another. He
carried them in a rucksack as he traveled
“back and forth across the country.” He
traveled to San Francisco where he found
enlightenment through Buddhism. The
novel “The Dharma Burns” tells of a 1955
mountain climbingtripto Yosemitewhich
Kerouac took with Zen poet Gary Snyder.
The book describes the steps he and his
friends were taking towards spiritual
realization.

His fellow starving artists were be-
coming known as the “Beat Generation,”
a term coined by Kerouac in a conversa-
tion with novelist John Clellon Holmes.
In 1955, Ginsberg and Snyder became
“underground celebrities” after the Six
Gallery poetry reading. Since his fellow
writers tended to refer to Kerouac as the
most talented among them, publishers
began to express interest in the manu-
scripts which Kerouac carried in his ruck-
sack. In 1957, “On the Road” was ﬁnally

Photo Mark Slomray

published and become a huge success.
After years of rejection, Kerouac did not
know how to react. He was older, sadder
and more intelligent than people expected
him to be. Literary critics refused to
take the Beat “fad” seriously and, there-
fore, refused to take Kerouac seriously as
a writer. They even began to ridicule his
work. Kerouac was hurt. He knew the
Beat Generation was a fad, but his own
writing was not.

His sudden celebrity became
Kerouac’sdownfall. To live up to hiswild
image he developed a severe drinking
habit. He found no answer in Buddhism,
and his friends began to view him as
“needy and unstable.” Kerouac could no
longer function as a writer.

In 1961, trying to recover from his
drinkingand again ﬁnd hiswritingtalents,
Kerouac retreated to Big Sur. The “vast
nature creeped himout.” Retumingto San
Francisco, Kerouac drank himself into
oblivion. His last novel “Big Suﬁ’ ex-

= plains the experience.

Kerouac left California to live with his
mother in Long Island where he would
continue to publish. He remained men-
tally aware (yet always drunken.) All his
work after “Big Sur” depicts an author
permanently lost in his own illusions.

Unlike the “Beatnik” stereotype,
Kerouac was politically conservative. He
supportedtheViemam Warandbefriended
William F. Buckley.

Kerouac died in St. Petersburg, Florida
at home with his mother and second wife
Stella Sampas. He died in 1969 at the age
of 47, his health ruined by drinking.

come see tlxe wxiracles 
cue seciety For we arts
amt tke "Sautuem Gsttegzaﬁ

V\/Ofk. everyday.

c7ke tvve will spevuscr a poetry
reacting today at E p.w\. in Uxe
EEG) '13Lstre IZCDCDO.

Qerresumewts war Ice prcvicled.

.-(_ ‘Q

The Option for
Adoption...

Do you know someone who is
pregnant and considering adoption?
Give the baby the best opportunity in

life; Please consider the loving op-

 tion of adoption with Sue and John, a \

happily married couple offering to
hare their lives with a precious baby.

Speak with someone who cares and

 

 

 

BAsr.nAu.

Generals in action this week:

Home vs. Eastern Mennonite. Tuesday. 3:00pm
Home vs. Williams. Wednesday. 3:00pm

Woman‘: Lxcnossa Home vs Frostburg. Tuesday. 4:00pm
Man's Lltcxosaz Home vs. Gullford. Wednesday. 3:30pm

Man's Terms Away at Lynchburg. Wednesday. 3:00pm

PAGE 4

JAsON ZACHER
PHI EDITORAI. EDITOR

Roanoke goalie Chris Gordon
made 20 saves as Roanoke (4-2, 2-
0) dropped Washington and Lee on
Saturday for the third straight year.

W&L(6-1,2-1)was rankedthird
in the nation before losing to the
sixth-ranked Maroons.

Leadingthe Generalswasjunior
Tom Fallace with a goal and four
assists. “Once we got on offense,
we could generate goals,” said
Fallace. “For the first three quar-
ters, we just couldn’t get the ball
out of our end.”

Helping Fallace was freshman
Colin Doughtery who added two
goals and an assist.

W&L senior Chris TeStrake
played well for the Generals, mak-
ing 21 saves in only his third start.
He had 13 saves in the first half of
the game.

Score by Quarters:
Roanoke
Washington and Lee

Men’s lax drops tough
game to Roanoke

123
244111
111

Washington and Lee Goals: Colin Doughtery (2), Shane McLaughlin, Ed

Doughtery, Tom Fallace, Robb Greenﬁeld, Andelekins, Paul Stanley.
W&L assists: Torn Fallace (4), Colin Doughtery.
W&L saves (Goals Against): Chris TeStrake 21 (11).
Shots: Roanoke 53-37. Faceoffs: W&L 13-8. Ground Balls: Roanoke
32-31. Penalties: W&L 6 for 5:00; Roanoke 7 for 6:00. Extra Man
Offense: W&L 2 for 7; Roanoke 0 for 6.

The game was tied 2-2 at the
beginning of the second quarter.
Roanoke scored six unanswered
points as the Maroons held the Gen-
erals scoreless for over 16 minutes.

Roanoke kept up their relentless
attack and opened a 10-3 lead at the
begining of the fourth quarter.

With 9:37 left to play, the Gen-
erals fought back by scoring three
goals in thirty seconds to close the
gap to 10-6.

Two minutes later, Roanoke
scored another goal, which W&L
countered with goals by senior
Ande Jenkins and junior Paul
Stanley.

However, with over four
minutes left in the game, Gor-
don played to perfection, hold-
ing W&L’s rally and preserv-
ing the 11-8 win.

The Generals look to bounce
back Wednesday against Guilford.
The game starts at 3:30 at Wilson
Field.

4 Final

5 3

Men’s tennis splits
weekend matches

JASON ZACHER
PHI EDITORIAL EDITOR

The men’s tennis team split their
weekend matches, losing to Averett
College 4-3, but rebounding Sunday
against Middlebury 6-1. The Gener-
als improved their record to 8-4.

Leading the Generals were junior
Glenn Miller and senior Damian
Brady. Neither Miller nor Brady
dropped a set in their two matches.

The match against Averett on
Thursday disheartened the Gener-
als as the top three seeds of senior
Peter Hammond, sophomore Dale
Pretila and senior Chris Higgs all
droppedtheir matches. Hammond
shutout his opponent after drop-
ping the first set, but could not
hold on for the win.

Posting wins for the Generals were
sophomore Scott Babka, playing in
the fourth slot; Brady, playing in the
fifth slot and Miller, playing in the
sixth slot. Only the team of Higgs and
Brady won a doubles match.

“We turned in a lackluster perfor-
mance against Averett,” said Miller,
“but our lineup is performing consis-
tently at a high level.’’ ’ " ‘ 1

Yesterday, the Generals proved that
statement against Middlebury.
Hammond, Higgs, Brady and Miller
won in straight sets. Pretila dropped
the second set but came back to win, 6-
3, 5-7, 6-3.

Against Middlebury, the doubles
teams of Higgs-Miller and Hammond-
Pretila won easily. Babka and Brady
also won their doubles match.

“One positive thing to take out of
this win were the changes we made in
the doubles 1ineup,” said Miller. The
changes allowed the Generals to sweep
doubles play against Middlebury.

Despite the split, the men are up-
beat about the rest of the season. “If
everyone turns their play up a notch,
we have a good shot at regiona1s,” said
Pretila.

The men will be in action once
more before exams. They play at
Lynchburg on Wednesday.

S

 

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁltt

PORTS

LACROSSE, TENNIS, 1 BASEBALL

Womens’ lacrosse gets two impressive wins

Junior Lorraine Taurassi moves to ninth on all-time scoring list.

JASON ZACHER
PHI EDITORAL EDITOR

The Generals’ women’s lacrosse
team improved to 9-1 this past week
with impressive wins over Colby Col-
lege and Mary Washington College. 7

J u n i o r
L o r r a i n e
Taurassi netted
nine goals in the
two games, in-
cluding seven in
the Generals’ 16-
5 win over Mary
Washington on
Saturday.

Theninegoals
gave Taurassi 30 goals for the season,
and place her ninth on the W&L all-
time scoring list. She only needs five
more to move into seventh place.

Heading into the second half, W&L
was leading Mary Washington 5-2.
Taurassi took over, scoring five of her
seven goals in the second half.

‘‘I didn’t feel 1 was doing that well
because the team was playing so well.
I just happened to be the one who got
the last pass,” Taurassi remarked. She

Taurassi

also had an assist against Mary Wash-
ington.

Also playing well for the Generals
this week was senior Brooke Glenn,
who had 24 saves and only allowed
eight goals. “Our defense is playing
great, but it is not only out defenders.
Our entire team is playing great de-
fense. Mary Washington could hardly
get the ball into our end.”

Leading the Generals against Mary
Washington were juniors Mary Jo
Mahoney and Whitney Parker with
three goals each. Glenn had 12 saves.
Senior Ericka Snyder had three as-
sists.

On Thursday, W&L beat Colby
College 13-4. The Generals jumped
out to a 6-0 lead, en route to a 8-2
halftime edge. In the second half,
Glenn held Colby scoreless for the
first 24 minutes and made 12 saves.

Parker and Snyder led the Generals
with three goals each, while Mahoney
and Taurassi each added two.

The Generals improved to 4-1 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence——the only loss came at the hands
of Lynchburg College.

“The Lynchburg game was the best

thing that could have
happened to us,” said
Taurassi, “It was good
to see everyone so upset
about losing.”

Glenn echoed these
sentiments, ‘‘It was re-
ally a wake—up call for
us. This wasn’t our
team. We lost our
game.”

The women have
four games remaining,
including games against
Frostburg State, Tren-
ton State, Sweet Briar,
and Roanoke College.

For the Generals, the
future looks bright. “We
have some tough games
ahead of us, including
Roanoke [ranked 10th
in the nation], and Tren-

ton State [ranked first],’’ said Glenn.
Taurassi added, “We are always

looking at out next game, but we would

like to win ODACs and get abid to the

NCAA tournament.”

The women’s next game, and last home
game, is Apr. 1 versus Frostbug State.

Last week’s results:

Men‘; ‘Penna def. VMl 5-2 and Middlebury 6- 1. lost to Averett 4-3
Woman‘: hum: def. M. Wash. 5-4. Gullford 8-1 and Middlebury 9-0
BAHIIALL def. Westminster 14-13

Mn‘: Lax lost to Roanoke 1 1-8

Wotan‘: LAX def. Colby 14-3 and M. Wash. 16-5.

MARCH 31, 1997 ‘

 
  
 

d Lee

. Wom osse

All-tim "ca ing List

Name Goals Years
Lisa Dowling 179 1990-93
‘Kimberly Bishop 122 1989-92
Nicole Ripken 112 1992-95
Linsdsay Coleman 1 12 1992-95
Angie Carrington 1 10 1991-94
Shawn West 77 1989-91
Ericka Snyder 72 1994-
Cinnie Logan 63 1993-96
Lorraine Taurassi 58 1995-
Paige Henke 57 1990-93

Note: Taurassi and Snyder are
still active players

1 2 Final
Colby 2 1 3
W&L 8 6 14

1 2 Final
Mary W. 2 3 5
W&L 5 1 1 16

Women’s tennis posts three straight wins

JAsON ZACHER

Mary CelesteFoster all won their matches.

University Connputing
urges those who plan to live in

University housing next year to
sign up early for their

E12i’l6V‘Vl6‘l2 connection.

Students can apply on-line for
a connection from the W&L
Homepage. For more

information, contact Ruth

H03/Oi at University
Computing in Tucker Hall.

$7 per hour plus $150 per
ance. Largest rental service n the Outer Banks of
North Carolina (Nags Head). Call Dona for applica-
tion and housing info (800) 6152-2122. '

rgonth housing allow-

PHI EDITORIAL EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team
won three matches this past weekend, beating
Middlebury, Guilford and Mary Washington, and
improving their record to 12-2.

The Generals had impressive performances from
juniors Natalia Garcia and Berry Blankinship in
singles, and the team ofGarcia and freshman Brook
Hartzell in doubles. Garcia and Blankinship won
their three matches, and the Garcia-Hartzell doubles
team swept their~three.

On Sunday, the Generals blewout Middlebury
College 9-0. Only Anna O’Connor dropped a set to
Middlebury. Garcia, Blankinship, Hartzell,
O’Connor, freshman Erin Eggers and sophomore

“lt was a good match. They gave us a run for our
money,” said Blankinship. ‘‘It was a good win for
us.”

Saturday, the Generals dominated Guilford
College. Leading the Generals were Eggers
and freshman Shannon Bell, both of whom
blanked their opponents 6-0, 6-0. Garcia,
Blankinship, Hartzell and Foster also posted
wins. The doubles team of Blankinship and
Foster was the only team to drop a match‘.
Guilford’s Betsy Parker and Libby Hinsley got
a run for their money, only winning 9-7.

Mary Washington posed the greatest challenge to
the Generals on Friday. The Generals escaped with
a 5-4 victory. Playing in the first spot, Garcia won
handily 6-2, 6-3. Blankinship also was victorious in

the second slot. She survived the second set and
blanked Mary Washington’s Jyoti Schlesinger in
the third set, 6-2, 4-6, 6-0. Eggers also finished
strong after dropping the first set, 2-6, 6-3, 6-3.

The doubles teams of Garcia-Hartzell and Eggers S

and freshman Elizabeth Gay were victorious in their
matches.

After dropping two early matches to power-
houses Kenyon and:Amherst, the Generals have
won nine in a row.

“The losses to Kenyon and Amherst were a little
discouraging, but these wins have helped us,” said
Blankinship. “We are working toward returning to
nationals. We need to stay tough.”

The Generals are breaking for exams before
returning to the courts on April 16th against Bates
College.

453 East Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
Offer expires April 15, 1997.

Leyburn Library
Spring Break Hours

Saturday and Sunday, April 12-13

Friday, April 11
Close at 6 p.m.

Closed

Monday-Friday, April 14-18
Open 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m.

Saturday and Sunday, April 19-20

Closed

Monday, April 21

Open at 8 a.m. and I
resume 24-hour schedule

ZERO

Army Recruiter.

WE’ LL ERASE YOUR
COLLEGE LOAN.

If you're stuckwith a student loan that’s not
in default. the Army might pay it off.

Lfyou qualify, we"l1 reduce your debt-up
to 865,000. Payment is either ‘/3 of the

debt or 81.500 for each year of service,
whichever is greater.

You'll also have training in a choice
of skills and enough self-assurance
to last you the rest of your life.

Getall the details from your

 
 
  
    

ARMY. 3: ALL YOU CAN 3::

wwwgoarmycom

 

