- INSIDE

‘ll.

FEATURES

Lexington prepares for
First Annual Maury River
Balloon Rally to be held
over Fourth of July Week-
end. They are looking for
50-60 volunteers. Any stu-

ents staying in town over
the summer are invited to
help out.

i

Ben Folds Fivebrings its
wild antics to the Alumni
Weekend Concert at the Stu-
dent Pavillion.

SEE PAGE 4

OPINION

_ The Student Judicial
I Council’s Blue Book out-
I lines new rules, regulations
and punishments to live by,
ut some of their procedures
are unfair to the students
they prosecute.

The Phi
e x t e n d s
apologies to
Dean of Stu-
dents David
Howison for
a mistake in
the lampoon
issue con-
c e r n i n g
President John Elrod's leave
of absence to join the rock
group KISS.
SEE PAGE 7

SPORTS

T h e

W & L

Women’s

track team

placed sec-

ond at the

O D A C

champion-

ships. The Men’ s team placed
third.

"7 Women's Tennis team
warms-up for nationals by
sweeping ODAC champion-
ships. The Men’s team nearly
fdllows suit.

Men’s Lacrosse team beats
Hampden-Sydney. They look
forward to Lee-Jackson next
weekend.

‘ INDEX

News 1-3
Features 4,5
Spods

bpinion

General Notes
‘Movie Review
Greenland
The Big Fan

'T—"

1

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

U112 iﬂtng-tum Iﬂhi  

K VOLUMEQ9, NUMBER 1

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No 7
Lexington, VA

APRIL 28, 1997

Departmentsstandardize registration process

BY ANNA PARRIs
PHI STAFF WRITER

Long lines. Camp—outs. Two
things that sound bearable in antici-
pations of concert tickets, but detest-
able in the midst of registration. Af-
ter years of sleep—overs in Newcomb
Hall, picnics outside the registar’s
office and the cries ofangry and tired
students, the Washington and Lee
Registar has made efforts to standard-
ize the registration process. On-line
registration may not be too far behind.

“I have encouraged the depart-
ments to stick with the new schedule
for departmental permission and reg-
istration,” University Registar Scott

Dittman said.

Dittman has received several com-
plaints that students obtain permission
for classes before the specified time.
Dittman believes that encouraging
standardization will help simplify the
registration process. “It drives the pro-
fessors crazy and it drives the students
crazy the way it is now.”

“I think that the standardization is
essential to end the never-ending
query of ‘How do I get into this
class,’” freshman Romy Rosenbaum
said.

But Dittman does not think that it
will get rid of the lines altogether.
“Sometimes I think that waiting on
lines is a social thing for students,”

Dittman said. “W&L students don’t
wait on line for concert tickets or
anything like that, so maybe they
say, ‘We have to wait in line for
something.’”

Dittman has also seriously con-
sidered registration methods used at
other universities. In the past sev-
eral years, students at schools in-
cluding the University of Richmond
and the George Washington Univer-
sity register by phone. This system
would create more problems than it
is worth, Dittman said.

“I haven’t been very impressed
with the phone registration
method,” said Dittman. “Students
have to listen to long lists ofclasses,

l
l
I

And they’re ofl

Attendees of the Foxﬁeld races discover that the only line at the races isn’t just at the starting gate.

File Photo

White Book changes considered

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI NEws EDITOR

If there were ever any gray area
about honor violations involving the
use of fake IDs outside Rockbridge
County, the gray area has just disap-
peared.

At the behest of the White Book
Review Committee, a group of stu-
dents appointed to review the White
Book every three years, the Executive
Committee has made some revisions,
one concerning the implications of us-
ing fake identifications.

As of now, the White Book states
that a student is accountable under the
Honor System when in Rockbridge
County or when he or she is visible as
W&L student. That has now changed.

The new clause reads that W&L
students must conduct themselves
honorably at all times, whether they
are in Lexington, New York or any
other place. This would include the

use of fake IDs among other infrac-
tions ofthe Honor System.

“It takes offthe geographical limi-
tations on honorable behavior,” E.C.
President Sandy Hooper said. “The
Honor System should follow students
wherever they go.”

The White Book Review Com-
mittee also issued surveys to obtain
feedback from students. “Many stu-
dents felt that professors should be ac-
countable under the honor code,”
Hooper said. The professors are pres-
ently accountable to the dean, not the
E.C. This policy is not going to
change, Hooper said, but certain
wording in the White Book has been
changed to address student concerns.

“We added a clause stating that
students expect all members of the
W&L community are to embody the
ideals of the honor system,” Hooper
said, “This would include everyone
from professors to buildings and
grounds people, although it doesn‘t

mean that they are accountable un-
der the honor system.”

The Committee also proposed that
the Advocate Pool, the group of law
students who provide counsel to
honor violation defendants, should
be expanded and opened to under-
graduates. The Committee proposed
that the Advocate Pool should con-
duct honor investigations. Members
ofthe Committee felt that this would
make the hearings more fair and re-
move any bias the E.C. investigators
might hold.

“We felt that this would get more
students to participate in the Honor
System," Committee Chairman
Adam Branson said. “It would also
foster a greater sense of trust of the
E.C. Some people feel that the E.C.
is the judge, jury and executioner,
and expanding the Advocate P001 to
investigation would make the E.C. as

PLEASE SEE BooI< PAGE 3

push too many buttons, and listen
to busy signals. The process could
take forever.”

Dittman wants to move toward
intemet registration, but the estimated
cost of $35,000 is too expensive for
the University at this time. “There is
also the issue of students being able
to choose particular sections of classes
with the intemet method,” Dittman
said. “Some professors are not too
happy about that idea.”

However, W&L has kept with the
internet trend, as many students dis-
covered late in winter term when they
found that they were able to obtain
their schedules from the W&L
homepage.

NEW REGISTRATION RULES

Monday, May 5: Juniors pick up
registration forms, no departmen-
tal permissions given.

Tuesday, May 6: Underclassmen
pick up registration fonns, junior
departmental permission.

Wednesday, May 7: Sophomore
departmental pennission.

Thursday, May 8: Freshman de-
partmental permission.

Friday, May 9: Departments may
open wait-lists, Forms due at 4:30 p.m.

/

SJC Blue Book:
how the whole
thing happened

BY C.E. MILLER
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The rules have changed. After a
year of ideas, revisions, opposition
and unwavering faculty support, the
Student Conduct Committee (SCC)
replaced itself with the Student Judi-
cial Council (SJC).

Last Spring term, the recently ap-
pointed Chairman of the SCC Robert
Covington and Secretary Paul Saboe
approached Dean of Students David
L. Howison about altering the SCC to
make it more effective.

The SCC spent much of the ‘96
spring term creating the Blue Book
which outlined the policies and pro-
cedures of the SJC. The initial draft
resulted in a student conduct system
that strongly resembled the Honor
System.

The Blue Book outlined proce-
dures and instituted elections. It was
modeled after the White Book, which
outlines procedures and policies of the
Honor System. The new similarities
included posting convictions of mis-
conduct, a two-tier trial system, and
the right to appeal

“They had this
idea to strengthen
the (SCC) system
by electing mem-
bers,” Howison
said. “Previously
the Executive Com-
mittee appointed
the chair and the
secretary while the
elected president
and vice president

“I don't think (the
SCC) did as much as
they could have to
inform students
about the changes
taking place. ”

- Sophomore
Patrick McCormack

to the University
Board of Appeals.

“(The SAC)
took the issue up
during the fall and
into winter term,”
Howison said. “We
held an open forum
for student reaction
in October.”

It was at this
open forum that

for each class
served on the com-
mittee.”

According to Paul Saboe, the SCC
required time that many members
could not give because of obligations
to their class offices.

Saboe and Covington felt that if the
student body elected members to the
SCC, then the students would have
more control over who enforced pun-
ishments and SCC members would
have the time to serve on the commit-
tee.

Dean Howison supported this ini-
tiative and suggested the SCC create
a draft proposal to submit to the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee (SAC) for
approval. Students, faculty and ad-
ministration serve on SAC which re-
ports directly to the faculty. Any pro-
posed changes to the regulation of stu-
dent conduct must be approved by the
SAC and the faculty.

opposition to the
proposal ﬁrst surfaced. Fewer than 10
students attended the forum and of
those only Sophomore Patrick
McCormack took a keer interest in
the proposed changes.

“I ﬁrst heard about the SJC in The
Ring-tum Phi,” McCormack said. “I
went out and I picked up a copy of
the Blue Book.”

McCormack presented his sugges-
tions at the open forum, several of
which were adopted into the revised
edition ofthe Blue Book.

The revised Blue Book mandated
automatic penalties for seven infrac-
tions of misconduct, introduced
victim’s rights, shortened the appeal
process, limited the role of the SJC
chair in investigations and changed
the amendment procedure.

PLEASE SEE SJ C PAGE 2

Lexington 911 system online

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI NEws EDITOR

The city of Lexington leaps into the
21st century with the introduction of
the enhanced 91 1 emergency system,
meeting some opposition from local
residents and some Washington and
Lee staff members.

Lexington recently installed an en-
hanced system that allows the dis-
patcher to see the caller’s phone num-
ber, name and address on a computer
screen. Rockbridge Country imple-
mented the service over a year ago.

This mapping system might have
required some residents living on the
outskirts of the Lexington city limits
to change their house number. The
subdivisions in question include Ce-
dar Grove, Maury Cliffs and the
Birdfield neighborhood.

“To make the mapping system
more effective, every twenty feet in
the county has to have a number,”
County Board of Supervisors mem-
ber Nanalou Sauder said. “Since
there are so many vacant spaces out
in the county, a lot ofthese spaces
would have numbers. in the event

that someone would build on them
someday. For people that already
have city style codes, this would mean
that their house numbers would end
up being changed.”

Members ofthe Birdfield neigh-
borhood submitted a petition to the
County Board of Supervisors pro-
testing the changes. Signers in-
clude Washington and Lee Associ-
ate Treasurers Stephen McAllister
and John Cuny. Aquatic Director
Page Remillard also lives in the
neighborhood.

“It’s a big inconvenience to
change all of your magazines and
bills,” Cuny said. “Everyone would
also have to change their mail-
boxes.”

The County Board of Supervi-
sors told the residents that they will
listen to the people if 80% signed
the petition.

“About 90-95% ofthe people in
our neighborhood have signed it,”
Cuny said. “I think that we’ve met
our requirement.”

And their efforts paid off.
“When we were planning it out, we
didn’t realize how much it would

affect those residents,” Sauder said.
“Since they met the requirement,
they get to keep their house num-
bers.”

Lexington has finally arrived to
enhanced 911 after continual plan-
ning and obstacles since the l980’s.

Obstacles included the Perry,
Fla. vendor 91 1 Systems’ failure to
live up to its contractual obliga-
tions. A new vendor, Vision Soft-
ware, was hired after both Lexing-
ton and Rockbridge juridictions
voided their contract with 91 1 Sys-
tems.

Total costs of Lexington’s en-
hanced 91 lsystem amount to over
$100,000. Residents have been
paying a 911 tax since 1993.

Anticipated improvements to
both the Lexington
Rockbridge County systems in-
clude a consolidated dispatch cen-
ter.

‘‘It would save a lot oftime for
the rescue squads to get to the
callers,” Sauder said. “I look for-
ward to the consolidated effort.”

Additional reporting done by
Trevor Reed.

and‘

Photo by Hollister Hovey

Saving Technology Comes to Lexington

As of last month, Lexington residents dialing 911 for emergencies are
answered by dispatchers who can view the caller's exact location,
address and name through an advanced computer mapping system. A
proposed consolidated dispatch center between Lexington and
Rockbridge County will speed the assistance of ﬁre, police and rescue
squads. Lexington ﬁnally welcomes the 911 system after the many
obstacles, including a consultant that failed to live up to his end of the
contract, that have impeded its installation since the l980’s have ﬁnally

been overcome.

‘_V,._ . , ..   H,__,mRY
I   ._ ’....L i.»1i.z\‘..‘.HSITY
L'.'i{Il‘II3'l'ON,VA 4446' ’O

WA;-5 .'

.ii\P    

PAGE 2

 

CHAPEL MUSEUM TO CLOSE

The Lee Chapel Museum will close from July 21 until May 1998
due to renovations. Renovations will include new displays, handi-
capped access, new restrooms and a security system. Lee Chapel
itself and the Lee Family crypt will remain open.

FORMER VWIL STUDENT INDICTED

A grand jury indicted former Mary Baldwin student Jessica L.
Ortega-Bradford on a felony charge for receiving money for organiz-
ing a sexual performance. Commonwealth’s Attorney Raymond C.
Robertson said 19-year-old Ortega-Bradford had arranged sex acts
for money. Ortega-Bradford was convicted previously, along with
another former Mary Baldwin student, of a misdemeanor obscene per-
formance charge.

PANEL DISCUSSES CRIME

A panel will meet Thursday, May 1, to discuss Federal Law and
how it affects students at W&L. The panel will consist of Attorney
Elizabeth Griffin 1991 Dean of Students David Howison, Director of
Security Mike Young. The moderator will be W&L Law School Pro-
fessor Joan Shaughnessy. The discussion, sponsored by the Women’s
Forum, will meet in the University Center Room 114 at 7:30 p.m.

‘INTO THE WOODS’ TICKETS ON SALE

Tickets are now on sale at the Lenfest Center box office for the
Theater Department’s spring production, “Into the Woods.” The
musical will run May 23, 24 and 26 at 8 p.m., and at 2 p.m. on May
26th. The show is directed by Al Gordon; music direction is by Barry
Kolman, and voice direction is by Gordon Spice and Scott Williamson.
Tickets are free to the students, faculty and staff of Washington and

ALUMNI WEEKEND BEGINS

Alumni Weekend festivities will begin at 8:30 p.m. on Thursday,
May 1 with a keynote address by Pulitzer Prize winner George E.
Goodwin ’39 and the induction of new members into Omicron Delta
Kappa. Goodwin’s address, “250 Years of Values,” will be followed
by ODK induction ofhonorary initiate James M. Turner, Jr. ’67, ’7 l L,
and seven members ofthe class of 1998. ODK is a national honorary
leadership fraternity founded at W&L. The keynote address and ODK
initiation will be held in Lee Chapel; the public is invited to attend.
Alumni Weekend celebrations will continue through Saturday, May
3, with approximately 2000 people in attendance.

BEETHOVEN’S 9TH PERFORMED AT VMI

The Roanoke Symphony Orchestra and the Roanoke Choral Soci-
ety will be performing at VMI on Tuesday, April 29. The program
includes Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9 in D minor, Rossini’s Over-
ture to William Tell, Barber’s Adagio for Strings and Sousa’s Wash-
ington Post March. The symphony will take place in Cameron Hall at
7:30 p.m. Admission is free. For more information, contact Lt. Cmdr.
Badgett in the English and Fine Arts Department at extention 7240.

SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE

Furman University Professor James Leavall will combine rock
climbing, spirituality, and academia at W&L on May 5 and May 7.
In addition to his lectures, titled “Mountain-Climbing for Spiritual
Gain: the Shigundo Pilgrimage” and “Travel Photography in the
American Southwest,” Leavall will also speak to the University Scholars
course Pilgrimage in Religious Traditions, and to the Literature in Transla-
tion course Pilgrimage in Japanese Literature and Art. Both lectures are
open to the public and will begin at 7 :30 p.m. in duPont Auditorium.

PORTRAIT GALLERY CURATOR SPEAKS

Campus artists won’t want to miss a lecture by the curator ofthe
National Portrait Gallery on Monday, May 5. Ellen G. Miles will
present “Remember the Ladies, Hidden Themes in the Eighteenth
Century American Portraits of Women” at 3:00 p.m. in duPont Au-
ditorium. Miles will focus on symbolism in Colonial portraits of
women. The lecture will be followed by a reception. The public is
invited to attend.

SCHOLAR SPEAKS ON MAO ZEDONG

Ross Terrill, research associate at Harvard Fairbank Center for East
Asian Research, will speak on Mao Zedong at Northern Auditorium
Wednesday, April 30, at 8:00 Over Deng China——and Beyond.” The
public is invited to attend.

IRISH POET TO SPEAK IN NORTHEN

Irish poet John Montague, author of John Montague: Collected Poems
will be speaking in Noithen Auditorium in Leybum library. The reading,
sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Committee in celebration of Na-
tional Poetry Month will take place Monday, April 28, at 4 p.m.

PRINTS BRING MYSTIQUE

Senior art major Kaj Kirkman’s senior thesis show “The Antique
Mystique” is being shown until May 9 in duPont Gallery. “The An-
tique Mystique” is a selection of prints from the private collection of
Professor of History Jefferson Davis Futch. The show’s themes fo-
cus in on Roman mythology, monuments and treasures. Kirkman
received a Robert E. Lee research grant to work on the project over
the summer.

-Compiled by Peggz Stun!"

Retraction

Retraction to “Law students sentenced” 3/31/97:

In the last issue of The Ring-tum Phi, a news article incorrectly stated that
the SCC “found two first year law students guilty of drunken belligerence
after entering an undergraduate’s Woods Creek apartment without pennis-
sion.”

While the SCC sentenced four law students students for activities that
occurred the same night, the students were involved in separate incidents,
not related to the break-in. The Phi_thanks SCC member Mary Mahoney for

bringing this mistake to our attention.

NEWS

McCormack heads changes to Blue Book

 from page 1

The Student Affairs Committee
unanimously approved the Blue Book
at the beginning of winter term. The
second open forum, held in mid-Feb-
ruary, drew two student reporters, two
law students and a well-prepared
McCormack.

“I hadn’t heard about the changes
that were made,” McConnack said,
“and I don’t think the (SCC) did as
much as they could have to inform
students about the changes taking
place.”

Saboe felt that the SCC used its
limited resources effectively. During
the year the SCC created a webpage
that provided the full text of the re-
vised Blue Book, placed copies of the
Blue Book in the library and sent let-
ters to both student newspapers. Ad-
ditionally the newspapers covered the
revisions and open forums. Dean
Howison felt that the nature of the
system is such that when things are
going well there is not much inter-
est.

“When we were discussing the
Blue Book, there weren’t any real is-
sues that galvanized student atten-
tion,” Howison said, “and that is why
the open forum attendance was fairly
modest.”

At the second open forum
McCormack’s suggestions and con-
cerns about the Blue Book were met
with hostility by several members of

the SCC.
Saboe supported several of

McCormack’s revisions and felt that
SAC should consider these before
presenting the Blue Book to the fac-
ulty. Saboe and McCormack drafted
a letter that urged the amendment pro-
cedure was changed.

“I know that several members of
the SCC really didn’t like my perfor-
mance at that second open forum,”
McCormack said, “and few people
were glad that 1 took an avid interest
in it.”

Although McCormack pledged to
stop the faculty from passing the Blue
Book in its current state, the faculty
unanimously approved it in March.
Elections for SJC secretary, chairman
and justices were held in late'March.

McCormack decided to try to re-
form the SJC from the inside by run-
ning for SJC secretary. He lost that
election to Greta Richter, who served
on SCC for two years and was active
in the changes made to the SCC.

“I was on the SCC freshman and
sophomore years,” Richter said, “and
I really liked being on it. I ran because
I knew I could do a greatjob.”

Far from resigned, McCormack
entered the race for Junior class jus-
tice. “So many people say our elec-
tions don’t deal with issues, just per-
sonality and popularity,” McConnack
said, “but I made my race about is-
sues. I ran on a refonn platform be-
cause changes need to be made.”

McCormack was elected in a run-

off election by the narrow margin of
108-101.

“I think it is going to be a little hard
working with some of the members
who are returning from the SCC.”
McConnack said. “I know that they
were pretty much uniformly proud of
what they were doing...they are not
terribly eager to see it reformed
again.”

McConnack intends to approach
the refonn in three general areas. His
first goal is to change the way in
which students brought up on miscon-
duct charges are represented.

Currently a member of the SJC in-
vestigates and gathers evidence.
McCormack sees this as a prejudiced
system because the justice that pre-
sents evidence against the accused
also votes on whether or not miscon-
duct occurred. McConnack feels that
the pool of advocates that currently
exists for Honor System investiga-
tions should also be used for SJC in-
vestigations.

The second area McCormack is
looking to refonn is the statute of limi-
tations. The Blue Book allows stu-
dents 12 weeks to ﬁle a complaint
with the SJC. According to
McCormack this is ﬂawed because in
the cases that involve vandalism, the
perpetrator is often not identiﬁed right
away. He feels that a statute of limi-
tations is not necessary.

The third area of refonn concerns
jurisdiction. Currently a student can
be punished by a dorm counselor or
the lnterfratemity Council and then

if the incident is reported to the SJC
it will also punish the offender.

The SAC removed a line in the
Blue Book that said “mitigating cir-
cumstances would permit a lesser
penalty to be applied than the current

SJ C MANDATED PUNISHMENTS

Infraction
1. Physical assault/battery

2. Activity which endangers
person/property

3. Sale of illegal drug/controlled
substances

4. Possession/use of illegal drugs/
controlled substances

5. Driving under the inﬂuence

6. Vandalism

Consideration
1. Immediate suspension

2. Immediate suspension
3. Immediate suspension

4. Social and conduct
probation

5. Social and conduct
probation & 20 hours of
community service

6. Payment of 150% of
damage and conduct
probation.

automatic penalties.” They changed it
180 destances would allow a harsher
punishment to be applied.”

“I know that people who have been
elected are not going to do this,”
McCormack said, “but the theoretical
extreme is that it could become a ha-
rassing kind of organization where an
accused person could suffer two or
three rounds of these punitive mea-
sures.”

Howison respects McCorrnack’s
diligence in this matter. “If he remem-
bers that the SJC is not a political
body, then I think he’ll be an excel-
lent member of the SJC. It is ajudi-
cial body and certainly if the body as
a whole sees certain procedures as
they work need to be refined they can
do that. However, it would be mis-

guided to start on the premise that we
are going to change this body,” he
said.

Dean Howison’s personal goal is
to have all conduct, outside of the
Honor System, handled by the SJC.
Currently sexual misconduct and haz-
ing are handled by outside commit-
tees.

McCormack has said that although
the Blue Book is broad enough to
adapt such changes in five or six
years, it hinders the current system.

The election of thejudges, accord-
ing to Howison, was the most impor-
tant aspect of implementing the new
system.

“I know that every year from now
the positions on SJC will become
more competitive . . . especially as it

   
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
    
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

APRIL 28. 1997

becomes more respected in the eyes
of the students,” he said. ‘F

SJC Secretary Greta Richter also
feels that these changes will create
more respect among the student body
for the SJC. q

“We need to focus on educatirlg
the incoming freshman class. If we
can create the kind of impression the
Honor System does now we will be
successful in gaining the respect we
need,” she said.

Howison agrees that the orienta-
tion of the next freshmen class is vi-
tal. He said it will help in maintain-
ing student interest in the SJC. I.

Even though the Blue Book goes
into effect the first day of spring term,
the SJC has failed to make copies of -
it readily available. According to
members of the SJC and former SGC
copies have not been distributed be-
cause there are no provisions for this
in the budget. The webpage is avail-
able on the W&L homepage.

According to the Blue Book, the
SJC “believes that Gen. Robert E.
Lee’s ideal of honorable behavior is
a standard that must be upheld. Stu-
dents are bound to this standard jtlsf
as they are bound to the Honor Sys- 
tern.”

The SCC changed the system of
conduct to create a parallel systemiof '
punishment for misconduct.

“For far too long students have
treated any behavior outside of lying,
cheating, or stealing as a joke,” Saboe
said. “By changing the rules and cVre- .
ating the SJC we have developed a
program that can effectively deal with
misconduct.”

Tuesday Wednesday

High: 67°
Low: 46°

High: 73°
Low: 48°

This Week’s Weather:

Thursday Friday

 

 

High: 72°
Low: 51°

High: 72°
Low: 49°

From the National Weather Service

Saturday

Sunday

High: 69°
Low: 49°

High: 63° it
Low: 47°

   

Class sessio
Call (703) 32

  

jump start your college Career!

 of classes available

 

Caring te  hers, quality education
and affordable tuition!

 
   
 

 

 

 

l

,1’ APRIL 28, 1997 NEWS/ADVERTISEMENTS PAGE 3
'‘ SURVEY FINAL RESULTS  decides Or] new
I A Society for

K‘ Do you favor the Single Sanction? W h e B O O k p r0 p O S a I S  I  Anacﬁﬁitfsvnj
Mares 70% (453)  "“°'”‘b“~ B‘“'“°'“

 Blaschke

 from page]  d l

D No 30% (195)    Meii§L‘;?2Z‘.Zf‘iZZi
95 . in full armor. The

Should the Honor S Stem a 1 in cherished as the Honor System." -» _ .
y pp y This is one proposal that the E.C. voted down. ‘ armor welghs Over
' 45 pounds. An

_ . . . 9 - ‘ -

non academlc Sltuatlons ' “We thought that the E.C. investigators were not biased in deliberations,” Hooper
said. “And a practical concern is ﬁnding enough dedicated students who can give up 996“ demo”
stration was held

‘ In mes 72% (448) the time for lengthy investigations and trials." f ‘ p  yesterday

The question of expanding the Advocate Pool might not be completely over,
afternoon at the

El N0 28% (172) Hooper said. “The White Book S _ _
Committee will I‘ b bl ’ ‘”d°“”’aV‘”‘°"~
P O a y Students also

Do ou know of unre orted honor Present "5 with 50”“ 50” Of . . . '
'. - ly - 9 p compromise?’ ‘E4 practzcal concern LS " ’ ' I "‘*’“°“5‘"‘.‘€d
V10 at10nS' The Committee also spent a archery’ dancmg

great deal oftime discussing stu—  enough dedicated ‘V K: and fencing"

lj Yes 32% (206) d t t ' ' Currently. about 20
a:*1“H:)‘;'(‘)‘r"‘\‘:‘Ol5a°t§’(:‘n°hem‘“g‘apeas students who can gwe up Washington and

’  N0 68%  “This has beenapersistentcon- the  [COT  V V  Lee Sludems

. c m fo t dents in the t — ‘ ' ' - 2: . participate in SC/\'
Have you had an encounter with a 6:2,ye;r:=iiC0mmmeep:1:n:::r lnU€StlgCltl077«S and 157” ZCZZS. .  . The national
non-student member of the universit Joshua Heslinga said. The Com- - 0' °”=’*a“iZa‘l°" has
y mittee made no recommenda— _ E'C' Presldent Over 25000

it ‘V Communlty who dld not respect h1S/ tions about this issue, but there Sandy Hooper . members‘
her role in the Honor system? is nothing in the White Book to   , .. .. _ _  _ 
PF6V€f1lS0m€0ne bringing 3 C356 Photo by Hollistcr Hmey. P/ii Photo Editor
lj Yes 14%  of rape to the E.C., Heslinga said. “We‘ve recommended that the E.C. have the

power to delegate cases that might not be honor violations, but are matters of stu—
N0 86%  dent misconduct, to other committees like the Student Judicial Committee or the

Student/Faculty Review Board.” . .
These were taken from the white Book Review Committee . One of the E.C. s ongoing goals 1S to educate students about the Honor System and a S S 1 1 ‘ :
inform them about the changes to the White Book. . . .

1‘ Student Respose Survey. 34% of the student population par- _ _ _ _ . A
ticipatcd in the survey, “We're planning on mailing out a copy ofthe revised White Book to all students in

the fall with the changes highlighted," Hooper said.
The E.C. will be deciding on other Committee proposals later this month.

ll

WANTED; PLACE TO LIVE THIS SUMMER
(21ST MAY UNTIL MID-AUGUST)
Work for   A    RESPONSIBLE BROWN UNIVERSITY

The Phi! SENIORS wII.I. BE GRADUATING  W“  OR 
  PREFER LOCATION CLOSE TO CAMPUS

463-3628 BEFORE 9 P.M.
Under the Army’s

Loan Repayment

It’s the easiest       vrogramwoucouldget

._ . out from under with a

th  O n three-year enlistment.
g V Each year you serve

on active duty reduces

C a  u S ! your indebtedness by one-

third or $1,500, which-

 _ ,_ , . , ever amount is greater,

up to a $65,000 limit. S W A W i _ »
The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans, - . DO you know‘ 3011113 :3 no who is

You can Sn-r_up the ecfirltftin other federally insured loans, which are not ' pm gn nnt 3 nd C O “S idcﬁng

Campus as a news And debt reliefis just one ofthe manybeneﬁts Hd0}JCiDIl?
you’llearnfromtheArmy. AskyourArmy Recruiter. _ - Give the bah}. The best npPm.[Lmﬂ),

Complaints on our ® ' K in life. Please consider the loving
  ARM*°%t!:tx€2P°A"“‘-   ::§i::’“.°.£.:“;it.%':::.;::;::‘::;i:i..
like Sports? The Phi is _ _ i  ’ faring to sl1are their lives with :1
always lookingfor sports P a In p e F YO u r S 6  ‘ . precious baby

enthusiasts to cover the . ‘ A _ V  Speak with someone. who cares
Generals. Have good  W & Li‘le\di31iY\Y7lemlggidliitbloiﬁihitwives   and ‘W111 h=?1P YOU-

design ideas and skills?   , i ' Ask f{Jl'R1.lIh- (304) 832-2049
We always look./For new  Call apyggiynllmciit. iv

talent.  Osiﬁve

  "‘},‘.\'p<.‘ricm 1‘ Iiatiif V from the Inside Our "

13 1/2 W. Nclsori Slrccl l.cxin;;lon. VA 540—4(§1’s»(§(‘itiZ

reporter, or voice your

It’s really easy.

Have a knack for
business? The Phi is
also a business. We
always need people to
sell advertising.

in room 208 ofthe - .. B  RAV I
". . . The RAV4, Wlilcll Corners Better, Rides More Smoollily And Feels "Toyota's New RAV/i Seems To Bridge The Cast Cliiisni Between Ciir And Truck. This

Unlverslty Center‘ Or More Nimlile Than Any SUV Made." -Au(oWeek, June '96 Little Wagon With Big Wlicels ls A Car And A Truck." -€11)‘/llll/[))‘I.I"€l', /llI))‘ll '96
you can write t0; "The RAV4 Is A Fun-Junkie's Dream Machine." -Car And Driver, April '95 "Rally-Cali‘ l’cI'l'0I‘Iii:IIIcc, CiInii'_v-l.ike Quiility" ~Car;lml l)I‘l1‘l’r, July '96

phi@wlu- edu There's More. Your RAV4 Can Be A 2-Door Or 4-Door, A Fronté-Wheel S

3 Drive OrA 4-Wheel Drive, On-Road Or Off-Road With Room‘For Up
It 5 that 9353“ To 5 And Cargo, Too. . ‘  0

~ , -. _ - TOYOTA BAV4...lT's0llT THERE AT voun   
uﬂif .1iL“3Ii.‘3Zlll‘..i    TOYOTADEALER Iinwi  simpiyooo

Simply come to our staff  ‘H   ' i it “ A V ’ » 3

meetings every I C C
 TOYOTA S REMAR

I love what you do for me

PAGE 4

 

 

 

Lexington prepares for first

W&life

f it weren’t for two Frenchmen who believed smoke had magical proper-
Ities, 14 seven-story—tall giants wouldn’t be launching from Virginia Mili-
tary Institute’s Parade Ground this summer.

In Paris, 1783, two brothers, Joseph and Etienne Montgolfier, were watch-
ing their ﬁreplace and noticed that bits of paper would ﬂy up the chimney.
They concluded smoke had some magic property to make things ﬂy. Eleven
years later, the brothers began the age of aviation by sending a duck, a rooster
and a sheep into the air. The trio was the ﬁrst hot air balloon passengers.

Over Independence Day weekend, residents of the Shenandoah Valley will
have the opportunity to experience the same thrill of flight. Sunrise Rotary
Club is organizing Lexington’s ﬁrst annual Maury River Fourth of July Bal-
loon Rally. There will be ﬁve launches from the parade grounds and plenty of
opportunities for visitors to take a ride in a balloon or, for the less adventur-
ous, keep their feet on the ground and learn more about the sport from balloon
enthusiasts. In addition, 50-60 volunteers will have the unique experience of
actually working with the aircrafts.

“I’m sure many people have never been near a hot air balloon before,”
Sunrise Rotary Club member Don Miller said. ‘‘It will give people exposure
to something they usually aren’t exposed to.”

There will be a launch at 6 a.m. on July 3, 4 and 5;
and 6 p.m. on July 3 and 4. Saturday night’s launch
will precede the annual ﬁreworks display. Tickets
for rides are being rafﬂed off by area Rotary Clubs
and non-proﬁt organizations. For visitors who want

annual hot air balloon rally

BY TARAH GRANT

PH1 FEATURES EDITOR loon rides for $125.

to sample the experience, the balloons will be teth-
ered on Saturday morning. Lexington resident and bal-

loon enthusiast Marion Lunnemann is also taking reservations for hour-long bal-

 

“This is a chance for anyone who is interested in taking a hot air balloon
ride but who has never had an opportunity,” Lunnemann said. Lunnemann,
who has been ﬂying for nine years, says that ballooning is an activity you
have to experience to understand. “It’s hard to describe,” she said. “You just
see so much and sense so much; it’s unbelievable.”

Since the balloon moves with the wind, there is no sensation of movement
unless you look at the landscape. The air is unusually quiet, and people on the
ground can hear you speaking in a nonnal tone.

While all the balloons will launch from the VMI parade ground, landing
locations will be much more random. Throughout the weekend, the 70-to-
100-feet-tall balloons will be descending upon the Shenandoah valley coun-
tryside. “We’ll watch out for livestock,” said Lunnemann, who added that
farmers usually enjoy their unexpected guests.

Miller has wanted to bring hot air balloons to the annual Fourth of July
festivities for a long time, but it wasn’t until he met Lunnemann at the bank

 

APRIL 28, 1997

if she wanted to help organize a balloon rally. Lunnemann explained the
success of the partnership: “The Rotary Club had the business contacts andﬁ
had the friends with balloons.”

Lunnemann was a contract computer programmer in New York until she
was in an auto accident ten years ago. While recovering from her near-fatal
injuries, Lunnemann said, she realized what she really wanted to do in life,
which was to become a hot air balloon pilot. “If you really want to do some!
thing, you’ll ﬁnd a way to do it,” she said.

Lunnemann earned her license and bought her ﬁrst balloon. A year and a
half ago, Lunnemann and her husband moved to Lexington because she thought
it would be “a pretty place to ﬂy in.”

After their conversation at the bank, Lunnemann and Miller sent out 35' A
invitations to hot air balloon enthusiasts. So far, 14 balloons are registered for :
the event, including a bowling ball balloon from Iowa. The money the Rotary .

Club raises from the event will be used to provide dental care to low-income

elementary school students, Miller said. ,,
The rally still needs more volunteers to make the event a success. Mille

invites W&L students staying in-town over the summer to consider getting

involved. Training sessions are being held locally in which volunteers learn '

how to help unpack, inflate, launch, recover, delft and pack balloons. Volun-

teers are asked to attend three training sessions, the remaining ofwhich will bf ,

held the first weekend in May and the first two weekends in June. Miller
hopes all volunteers will eventually be able to get a free balloon ride.

To make reservations for a ride, call Marion Lunnemann, 261-9524. To
join a volunteer ground crew, call Matthew Paxton, 463-9810. I

  

amiingibf pills when "are weather ::m'1ed**bzg;
" . A ed the balloon for ajlandin .9
demolished” the,chai1'i-link 

- »

that his goal became realistic.

g and Robin's

ilii‘lii‘“‘

Franco’s Italian Restaurant, Lexington

On Route 1 1, between East Lexirigron Store and Kroger ’s Food Store.
Ratings (1-5): Pepper Grinder: 0; Powder Room: 2; Service: 2;
Food Quality: 2; Food Presentation: 1.5

Price Range: $7-$17

New Italian restaurant doesn’t rank up to competition

It was Wednesday night, and our friend Tim
was visiting us from out oftown, so we decided
to investigate the new Italian restaurant, Franco’s.

We arrived shortly after 6:30, expecting a
slow crowd on an off-night, but the restaurant
was noisy and packed. Not making reservations
ahead of time was a mistake, but the staff man-
aged nevertheless to seat us in a timely manner.

After a considerable wait, the hostess asked
the owner who our waitress was; he located her,
and we ﬁnally received menus and drinks. The menu
presented a large selection of intriguing dishes, but
lacked some of the “traditional favorites.”

To drink, Tim chose iced tea, while we opted
for the house wines - red for Doug, white for
Robin. The iced tea was
cloudy and didn't meet our
Southern friend’s standards.
Although we aren't wine con-
noisseurs, we found our wines
harsh with a sharp after taste.

While waiting for our sal-
ads, we ate the garlic bread.
The entire basket. The bread
had a nice ﬂavor, but soon developed a chewy
consistency which suggested microwave prepa-
ration. But at the bottom of the basket, we found
a plain roll -— no garlic —— which Tim and Doug
shared and proclaimed rather tasty.

The salads finally arrived; Tim complained
that his dressing had arrived in a rather awk-
wardly-large bowl. We requested oil and vin-
egar, but were initially served Creamy Italian
by mistake. We then waited several minutes
while our waitress chased down one of the rare
sets of oil and vinegar bottles before we were
able to dress our salads "

   
 
 
  

“l+‘iir this kind of
Italian dining, II
Palazzo is still
the local Champ.”

~ and begin eating. The highly-popular oil-and-

vinegar set was quickly removed from our table,
although the salad plates remained until well
after our entrees had arrived, at which time Doug
took the initiative and moved the soiled dishes
to a nearby table.

We chose two of the more expensive entrees,
hoping that we would get our money’s worth.
Robin chose the Shrimp Ionio while Doug and
Tim both ordered the Beef Boscaiola. Both of
these entrees included a side of spaghetti.

The Shrimp was the more aesthetically pleas-
ing ofthe two dishes, but the Beefwas the more
palatable and came in a larger serving. Even
this larger portion, however, left Tim hungry. As
for the spaghetti, it seemed devoid
of taste and poorly presented.

On the whole, we found the
food to be grossly overpriced for
the portions we received, and the
dishes unpleasantly ﬂavored and
seasoned. Cooking is an art; it
would have been nice ifthe chef
had done something more cre-
ative with the canvas.

In all fairness the other restaurant patrons
seemed to be enjoying their meals with fewer

problems than we experienced. Franco’s has .

some definite potential, but with the Italian
competition that Lexington has to offer and
the handicap of poor location, we feel they
really need to do something distinguish them-
selves further. Except for our waitress, the
staff seemed conscientious and eager to
please; insufﬁcient numbers caused all their
efforts to fail.

For this kind of Italian dining, Il Palazzo is
still the local champ, but it would be nice to see
Franco’s correct some of its problems and add
variety to the Lexington dining options.
If you have lots of time and are in the
mood for something new, then Franco's
is worth a try. We hope you have a bet-
ter experience than we did.

Lunnemann, who describes herself as a “very friendly person,” started tell-
ing Miller about her ballooning hobby while waiting in line, and Miller asked

BEN Fat D5 FIVE BR/NG5 /rs z/N/oz/E » 
Ml/5/C T0 Au/MM WEKED CNCER 7,5.

BY ANDREA EWING
PH] ASSOCIATE EDiToR

Jumping around. Piano diving.
Stool-throwing. These are some of the
outrageous stunts with which Ben
Folds Five will entertain the audience
at the concert Friday in the Pavilion.

The Chapel Hill, N.C.,-based band
first came together in 1993 and re-
leased a self-titled album introducing
the guitar—less lineup of the band. Ben
Folds plays piano and sings lead vo-
cals. Darren Jessee plays drums and
Robert Sledge plays bass.

Their ﬁrst album combined this in-
strumentation with Folds’ “highly per-
sonal and immensely catchy songs,”
according to the band’s homepage
(http: //www. epiccenter . com/
EpicCenter/Benfoldsite/).
“We all agreed the songs would rock
much better without guitars,” Folds
said, “so we just went with it.”

The Rolling Stone, in an album re-
view, calls Ben Folds Five a “truly for-
midable talent, brimming over with
melodic gifts, efficacious verbal
command and protean musical in-
stincts.”

The band’s latest album, “Whatever
and Ever Amen,” was released Feb. 18,
1997. “There are reminders through-
out this record that we’re not playing it
safe,” Folds said regarding the album.
“We didn’t want to pin ourselves down
to one sound, or to be as predictable or

W&L Dance 40% Aecoud WM

BY ERICA PRossER
PHI STAFF WRITER

consistent as the first album.”

Ben Folds Five seems to find it-
self in a strange place—“in the
middle of contradiction.” “The
songs on ‘Whatever and Ever
Amen’ are a good representation of
life, in all its absurdities, greatness,
and just plain weirdness,” Folds

place in the Johnson The-
ater of the Lenfest

Center.

The perfor-

"Hecht, the event’s organizer. “Wewant to

 

&L Dance, now in its second year, will

hold its annual spring recital next week.
The performance will consist of two
shows, one 8 p.m. Saturday and another
2 p.m. Sunday. Both shows will take

pear this year.

mance will feature ballet,
tap, jazz and modern dance.

Leah Hall, a sophomore member of
W&L Dance, is excited about how much the per-
formance has grown since last year. The ﬁrst perfor-
mance, she said, “concentrated onjazz and ballet,” and
didn’t include the tap and lyrical dance that will 21%-

Publicity photo 
said, “I’ve pretty much given up try- I «
ing to explain our music.” ,
The Alumni Weekend conce¥tl,f.
sponsored by the Student Activities 1.
Board has free admission and will ‘ i
provide a beer garden (ID required). ~_.
The doors open at 9 p.m. and the '

show will begin at 9:30. it I

L
i’

i

i
J

 
   

Approximately 15 girls will participate in the perfor-
mance this year, and the event has been extended to two
days. Hall predicts the program will continue to grow)in r
the years to come.

W&L Dance was fonnally organized in the fall of 1995,
by Washington and Lee University students interested in
all forms of dance, according to Junior Robin Seaton.

All interested students, regardless of experience, may
take dance classes in the four main genres throughout the
academic year. Missy Smithgall, a local instructor, teaches
the ballet classes. Sophomore Christine Bragg teaches
thejazz and tap classes, and Junior Amanda Bradford leads
the modern dance classes. 1‘

The W&L Dance webpage, found at h t t p : / /
www . wlu . edu / ~dance /, invites anyone interested in
information concerning classes or performances to e-mail
the group at dance@w/u.edz1.

 

 
  

APRIL 28, 1997

   

effects
‘BY SARAH MEI.DRuM
PHI STAFF WRITER

So, planning to relax this evening while
you study? If you reach for alcohol, you
Iiarm the learning process, according to re-
search done by Dr. Scott Swartzwelder of
Duke University.

Swartzwelder’s research centers on how
gtlcohol affects learning and memory, es-
pecially new memories. He became
interested in this subject through
earlier research showing that alco-
hol speciﬁcally affects the receptors
‘fn the brain that are critical in
memory storage.

“I started having kids,” Swartzwelder
explains. He knew that high school and
college students consume alcohol in large
quantities. Swartzwelder found that young
brains have a different balance of recep-
tors than adult brains, but discovered that
few people have studied how alcohol af-
ﬁects young brains.

Through tests on rats, whose hippoc-

of aflcohol and oher drugs

ampi are similar to those in humans,
Swartzwelder learned that alcohol impairs
memory systems in young brains. As few
as two drinks can inhibit neurotransmitters
important to the storage of new informa-
tion in the brain. .
Ifthe effects are the same in humans as in
rats, even for a highly intelligent student who
' studies often, the use of alco-
hol limits the amount ofin-
formation that person will

   

   

be able to retain.

When asked to explain why some stu-
dents believe they study better while drink-
ing, he replies that, “Someone could feel
more comfortable studying or taking a test
while drinking because alcohol does reduce
feelings of anxiety.”

He adds, however, that the “negative
effects of alcohol on memory formation
will far outweigh the positive ones on anxi-
ety as far as studying is concerned.” Stu-
dents who believe they do better aca-
demically are most likely fooling them-
selves, he says.

Lifestyle Information for Everyone,
LIFE, invited Dr. Swartzwelder to dis-
cuss his research on alcohol and how it
affects learning and memory. Last fall,
the Virginia ABC Board award a cash
prize to LIFE for new initiatives
in peer health education.

. Dr. Swartzwelder will be here

Tuesday, April 29. LIFE invites ev-
eryone to hear him at 7:30 p.m. in
‘ Northen Auditorium.

SOMETHING YOU WANT TO BRACI ABOUT?
SHOW YOUR CLASS SPIRIT, WRITE FOR NEWSLETTER

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PH9 EDITORIAL EDITOR

ave you accomplished something

special this year at Washington and

Lee University? Are you a sopho-
rmonfe? If so, the Sophomore Leadership Coun-
‘*cil would like to hear from you.

The Sophomore Class Newsletter, which is
eing assembled by the SLC, will showcase the
chievements of the Class of ’99. The publica-
‘ion is intended to promote class unity, as well
s to help students appreciate the accomplish-

ents of fellow classmates.

Sophomores are invited to submit descrip-

ioqs of their own or their friends’ exciting

events from this year, summer plans and spe-
cial achievements. Sophomore Leadership
Council President Mandy Stallard described the
sort of response that the group hopes to receive.

“We really are looking for anything. If
someone was at the Olympics and identiﬁed
the bomber, someone had ajob at the zoo and
was bitten by a rhino, someone was selected
to be Clinton’s new Secretary of State but
turned it down, someone in baby chem acci-
dentally discovered the cure for cancer, we
want to know," Stallard said.

Stallard describes the response to the
Sophomore Class Newsletter as “pretty good.”

“Many people have responded to the study
abroad, etc. prompt,” Stallard said. “I am

hoping to receive many more responses from
all facets of our class.”

The SLC is unsure of when it will publish the
newsletter but plans to make it available to all class
members. Publishing costs will be funded by class
dues and the class treasury.

ubmissions to the Sophomore Class News

letter may be deposited in envelopes lo-
cated in the Co-op and library or e—mailed to
astal/ar@wl u. edu.

Brag about your friends by heaving their
accomplishments published, or brag about
yourself by submitting accounts of your
own achievements. Either way, you will
help to support class unity through the
Sophomore Class Newsletter.

  

‘The Saint’:

Not one thing or the other

‘Ir *of 4 stars; ﬂashy but confused

The pitch: “lt'll be like James Bond without a point.”

Bv ALEX CHRISTENSEN
PH1MovIE CRITIC

Phillip Noyce is one of those commercial
directors who directs exactly what he is given,
no more and no less. When he has good ac-
tors and a well-crafted script, he’ ll make a very
good film (“Patriot Games,” “Clear and
Present Danger”). When he has bad actors
and a bad script, he’ll make a very bad ﬁlm
(“Sliver”). With “The Saint,” he had good ac-
tors and a bad script, which makes for an in-
credibly uneven ﬁlm which has no idea what
direction to take.

“The Saint” is a detective named Simon
Templar. A pre—Bond Bond type in the novels
and stories of Leslie Charter, he was a suave,
brilliant detective who solved crime with a little
charm and luck. Roger Moore and Pierce
¢, Brosnan both
starred in Saint
adaptations be-
fore they as-
sumed the Bond
mantle. Now
Val Kilmer (an-
other debonair
Englishman?)
takes on the first

widely seen American version of the tale.

In the grand American tradition, of course,
the character must have a brand-new cheesy
origin, incomprehensible emotional struggles,
and generally be nothing like the original char-
acter, because, much as that character might
have been perfectly suited for ajaunty action
caper, the studio is only interested in buying a
name that can headline a franchise. Well, this
time they’ve gone too far, and I’m very glad
they fall on their faces, because I never want
to see “The Saint 2” and the box office returns
make it seem likely that I won’t.

Simon is abused terribly in an orphanage
in the Far East from which he later escapes.
One confusing thing here is that this orphan-
age incident is labeled as occurring “Yester-
day,” while the remainder of the story, in
which Simon‘ is much older (Val Kilmer) and

  

PAGE 5

an international master thief for hire, is marked
“Tomorrow.” Now, I have no problem taking
these metaphorically, but why put them on
screen in the ﬁrst place? Because Noyce treats
second-guessing screenwriters like sacrilege.
If they write “Yesterday” and “Tomorrow”
in the script, it’s going to be on the screen.

Simon is hired by a Russian would—be dic-
tator named Tretiak (Rade Serbedzija) to steal
the secret fonnula for cold fusion, being de-
veloped at Oxford by shapely science girl Dr.
Emma Russell (Elizabeth Shue). Tretiak’s goal
is to own cold fusion and use it to solve the
heating crisis in Russia, which will presumably
cause the citizenry to silently assent when he
takes over from the elected govemment.

The only problem? Our intrepid (read
“flaky”) hero falls in love with Emma (duh!)
and so halfway through the deal he tries to
back out...or complicate the plan...or some-
thing. Chases, double-crosses, and weird
people hiding in sewers ensue. The twists are
pretty ingenious, if improbable, and are ad-
mittedly fun. But there are just too many de-
tails cluttering the whole thing up, taking the
ﬁlm in the direction of a romance, then an
action thriller, then a story of political intrigue,
then a future/science ﬁction meditation. The
Saint becomes an exercise in confusion.

A word about Val Kilmer’s disguises: In
the ﬁlm, The Saint is a master of disguise.
He dresses up like a goofy-looking professor,
a weird Spaniard and a South African artist.
None of this is clever, entertaining, or tied to
any kind of logic. The disguises are dumb,
the accents are dumb, and there’s no reason for
them. Val Kilmer’s a great actor. Now if he
would just take off the silly prostheses and act.

It’s not a bad ﬁlm, it’sjust not very enjoy-
able. And that’s the cardinal sin in my book.
There’s no emotional, suspense, or action pay-
off to the time invested in sitting through the
thing. The one thing Noyce does do right is
keep that camera focused tightly on his two
leads, Val Kilmer and Elizabeth Shue. The
eye candy is satisfying, but eye candy and a
couple of clever plot twists cannot overcome
the heavy burden of the rest of the ﬁlm.

[7  9‘[e[s012 CS/reez’
ﬁexﬁzy/012, v1}y1lr21'a 24450 I
(540) 464-1681

0 0

O

\

 

Get the student loan that
gives you what you Want.

FROM CITIBANK

What you need

to get what you Want?“

Call (888)CITI—911, and ask for Operator 7107,

www.citibank.com/student, or Visit your FAA ofﬁce.

     
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
  
    
  
   
 
   
     
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
 
 
  
  
  
    
   
 
   
 
    
   
 
   
     
  
  
      
   
  
   
  
  
   

‘APRIL 28, 1997

 JC wields power

‘F Why has the Student Judicial Council been given immense
power over student affairs, while few students know about it?
Only the leaders know.

The SJ C Blue Book is policy. With it comes a new list of
rules, regulations and punishments by which students must
live. Although the creation of the SJ C fills a major void
n etween the Honor System and student conduct, there cannot
be any more trials by the SJC until a Blue Book has been
hysically distributed to every student on campus.

To the SJ C’s credit, the Blue Book is available online and
a few copies were distributed in the library. However, the
page is difficult to get to, and except for some publicity in The
Ring-tum Phi and The Trident the word has not been passed
on to the student body as a whole that the page exists. Few
students on campus spendextensive amounts of time search-
ing for what is new on the university homepages. In addition,
the homepage has some significant ﬂaws, such as asterisks
which have no corresponding footnotes.

— There are several procedures which are unclear in the Blue
Book, and there are some others that are simply unfair:
°The SJ C says that if there are conﬂicts of interest with the
SJ C justices, student replacements will be chosen. Who
ebides if there is a conﬂict of interest, and how will the
a eplacements be chosen? Everything in the procedures is left
to the “discretion of the Chair,” but that seems a little too
ague for an organization with so much power.

°The appeals process for SI C rulings is unfair to the
students involved. Although any ruling can be appealed, the
appeal goes to the University Board of Appeals which decides
_ lﬁather the appeal will be heard. Ifa student wants to appeal the
ruling, that student shouldbeable to appeal—-—no matterwhat. The
appeal process should agree with that of the White Book, since it
's gupposed to be the model for the SJ C.

°Another problem with the SJ C is that a convicted student can
'7'» e punished by a dorm counselor, the Interfraternity Council and
he SJ C. If a punishment was implemented by one of the other
n rganizations, the SJ C could add an additional punishment. This
s not really fair to the student either.

°Finally, the SJ C should provide students in question with a list
f dvocates, as the Executive Committee does in honor trials.
u ently, this is not provided for in the Blue Book.

The Ring-tum Phi calls upon the SJC and the administration to
find the money to publish the Blue Book for all of Washington and
- ’ ’s 2,000 students. The SJ C is misrepresenting its full intentions
nd powers by not making a better effort to inform the student
)ody. For a university that prides itself on honor, this is inexcus-
' ble. Ifsuch a sweeping motion can be passed, the money for
slfull implementation should be found as well. The SJ C
ould stop its investigations and trials until the Blue Book is
istributed to every student on campus.

Quote of the Week

“‘We’re looking for a can of
yvhoop-ass.”

—Junior lacrosse player Chip Thomsen said in reference to next
week's Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic against Virginia Military
Institute. I

 

l_-I-A

    

 

I

    
    
      
       
  
   

Ellie iliing-tum lﬂlri

Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Hillary Coombs
Andrea Ewing

.4

Executive Editors

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editors Kathryn Mayumik
Tom Wadlow
Tarah Grant
David Balsley

Clltf Woolley

Hollister Hovey

Features Editor

Opinion Editor

Copy Editor

1‘ Photo Editor

 

Business Manager
Circulation Manager

Rebecca Cuny
Matthew Craig

   
  

If The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington. Virginia. Funding
for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters. All
submissions must be in the Phi ofﬂce. room 208 of the University Center,
by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi
reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters,
columns. and “My Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi

‘Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

and obscenity.

 

   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
 

The Ring-tum Phi
4.’ Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

 
    
   
  
  

 

    

OPINION

Phi retracts April Fool’s Edition article

Howison, not Elrod, has rocked the world is metal audiences with wild KISS ways

In this month’s parody issue, TheRing-tum Phi made
a big mistake. We incorrectly named President John
Elrod asa memberof the band KISS. Actually, it was not
Elrod, but rather Dean of Students David Howison who
rocked and rolled with the metal legends. Howison
recently told me all the sordid details of his involvement

with the band in an exclusive interview.

  

PAGE 7

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

Howison was one of the first members of KISS and
was an important part of their formative years. He is
known now as “the ﬁfth KISS member.” Howison’s
inﬂuenceon the band wasvery important. “The guys had
a satanic image that didn’t play well with record compa-
nies, radio stations or parents of teenagers,” Howison
explained. “They called me ‘the wholesome KISS’
because I was married and had kids. Parents who had
been turned off by the blood and overall strangeness of

our act found me comforting.”

In concerts, Howison ’s wardrobe reflected the differ-
ence. “I had the big black hair and the black and white ,
makeup like the other guys,” Howison said, “but 
instead of wearing black and silver spandex, I wore
navy blue and khaki spandex. I keep hoping it’ll

come back in style.”

One aspect of Howison’s appearance, however,
meshed right in with KlSS’s image. “Not very many
people know this,” Howison conﬁded, “but my tongue

j.-_—

actually used to be longer than Gene Simmons’. I had

cosmetic surgery to reduce ittoanormal size aboutﬁfteen
years ago because it scared my kids. No one wants a dad

who can lick the back of his own head.”

Howison admits that he was surprised and a little bit
disgusted to see the Phi’s erroneous claim that Elrod had
joined KISS. “I respect (Elrod) as an educator and an
administrator, but let’sface it: the man couldn’t rock if his
lifedepended on it. Imean, KISS? Elrod’saWingerman

if I ever saw one.”

Howison has many fond memories of his days with

ﬂoor! It rocked.”

the band. “I love touring,” Howison said. “There is
nothing like having thousands of adoring fans cheering
your every move. But my favorite thing to do was to trash
hotel rooms. Thisone time I must have used every single
towel in the room. And I just left them crumpled on the

Howison admits, though, that life in the band did not
satisfy him. “Every night, there I’d be, rocking, wavingto
the fans, signing autographs, watching girls throw under-
wear at me, and I’d be miserable. I kept dreaming of

Photo courtesy of Dean Howison

Howison rests at home, away from his millions of head-banging,

metal-loving fans:
Dean David “the fifth KISS member” Howison washed off his makeup and took off his tights for
this rare photograph, taken in 1979.

moving to a small town and being an administrator at a
small, conservativeliberal arts school. Sure it’s fun to
rock and roll all night and party every day, but after
a while, it’s enough already and you want to get
some sleep.”

Howison is happy to be following his true dream of

being a college administrator. “It’s really almost as
glarnorousasbeing in KISS. And now I rock and roll until
about 10 at night and party every other day. It’s a much
more manageable anangement.”

Convention protects American soldiers

Tomorrow, the Chemical Weapons
Convention takes effect, and thankfully
the United States is involved. Some Re-
publicans like Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) were
wronginopposingtheConvention. Luck-

From the Right_

Jason Zacher ’98

Ring-tum Phi Executive Editor

ily, Bob Dole and Senate Majority Leader
Trent Lott cameouton the President’sside
and supported the measure. Their en-
dorsement gave the treaty a 74-26 victory,
eight votes more than needed.

The Chemical Weapons Convention
was started by President Reagan. Presi-
dent Bush later intensiﬁed efforts to ban
chemical weapons after the Gulf War in
1991. Bush signed the treaty on January
13, 1993, with l60othercountries. When
the treaty goes into effect tomorrow, over
70 nations will have ratiﬁed it.

Thetreatycallsforthedestruction of all
chemical weapons stockpiles in 10 years,
and member nations will undergo inspec-
tions to verify their compliance. It also
bans certain kinds of chemicals, such as
Mustard gas, ﬁrst used by the Germans in
World War I; Saran gas, used in the
terrorist attack on the Tokyo subway; and
Ricin gas. These and many other chemi-

the Colonnade club

    

., ,_.
 \\/
name: Sloan Madison
hometown: Boston, MA
sex: female
marked characteristics: known

for her serial crushes on boys
she's never met

cal agents are fairly easy to make. Other
countries which do not ratify the treaty
will have chemical shipments prohib-
ited so that these chemical agents will
be more difficult to produce. Why was
the treaty opposed?

Supporting the treaty were Presidents
Clinton, Bush, Fordand Carter,..retired
Generals Colin Powell and Norman
Schwarzkopf, former Senate Majority
LeaderBobDole andTrent Lott. With this
kind of bipartisan support, it is hard to
believe that the treaty was in trouble on

‘Capitol Hill.

The Chemical Weapons Convention
makes it moredifﬁcult fornogue stateslike
North Korea, Iraq and Libya to manufac-
ture and equip their armies with chemical
weapons. Opponents of the treaty argued
that we should not have ratiﬁed the treaty
until the rogue states ratiﬁed it as well, but
the treaty’s supporters were correct in
assuming that the United States needs to
bealeaderintheworld. By postponingthe
ratiﬁcation of the treaty, the U.S. came
very close to joining the rogue states in
opposition against the treaty.

What is amazing about the contro-
versy surrounding the issue is that the
treaty was promoted and signed by Presi-
dent Bush and the icon of modern conser-
vatism, Ronald Reagan. Some oppo-
nents, such as Jesse Helms and The Wall
Street Journal, worry too much about our

 

name:
hometown: Charleston, SC

sex: as often as possible
marked characteristics: known
for his Southern pride and
always seems to get "the girl"
or a girl

Greer Rednaz

nationalsovereignty and notenough about
protecting our troops.

To helpthe ratiﬁcation of thetreaty, the
administration made a commitment to
keep our chemical defenses strong. This
way wecan ﬁght effectively in acontami-
nated environment. This was essential to
securing Lott ’s endorsement.

Even if the right-wing conservatives
are correct about the ineffectiveness of the
treaty, it needed to be ratiﬁed. The chance
that our armed forces could be protected
from chemical weapons necessitates our

inclusion in the treaty.

Will the treaty be effective? Prob-
ably. However, since chemical weap-
ons can be made in a sink or a bucket,
it will be hard to police, and the oppo-
sition was correct in assuming that the
cost of policing the treaty will be enor-
mous. However, the treaty’s cost is
small when compared to the number of
lives that could be saved by eliminating
chemical weapons.

Those savings could be us, our par-
ents and our kids.

The Speaking Tradition:
8 a.m. on a rainy day

name: Mary Jennifer Preston
hometown: Houston, TX

sex: female

marked characteristics: an
obsessive quality with
accessorizing and claims to
be "pure"

 

“I have no idea. I’ve heard no
mention of these rules. I hadn ’t
even known that it was out.
Does it apply to the faculty? I
am uninformed. "

-W. Lad Sessions, Head,
Philosophy Department

“I’ve been hearing about the
SJC all year. I know it's an
organized body, but I’m sur-
prised that there is not a for-
mal, printed book of rules. "

—E1izabeth Bahn, '07

“I think they should be ﬁned, but
I haven’t read them. "

name: Blake Caufield

hometown: Main Line, PA

sex: male

marked characteristics: known
for his shyness, hasn't been
seen without his lacrosse stick
since freshman orientation

Do you know what would happen if a person got into a
g fist fight under the new Blue Book rules? If not how you
it feel about being kept in the dark?

——Tom Smith, ’98

“I ’m not planning on breaking
any rules, but it's nice to know
the consequences of what
you ‘re doing before you do it. "

——Laura Cohen, '09

“I don ’t know at all. It makes
me feel rather uninformed be-
cause I like to know the conse-
quences of my actions. "
———J(elly Stewart, '00

 

APRIL 28, 1997

Ellis Tiling-tum iﬁlii
P O R T S

LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, BASEBALL, GOLF

    

PAGE 8‘

RESULTS

Men’s Lax (14-4)

Saturday: W&L 12 H-SC 11

Women’s Lax (12-4)

W&L 10 R-MC 4
Roanoke 8 W&L 7*
*ODAC Championship

Saturday:
Sunday:

Men’s Tennis (12-6)

Won ODAC Championship.
(1) Hammond, (3) Higgs,
(4) Babka, (5) Brady and
(6) Miller won singles titles.
(1) Hammond/Pretila,

(2) Babka./Brady and

(3) Higgs/Washbum win
doubles titles.

Sunday:

Women’s Tennis (13-3)

Won ODAC Championship.
(1) Garcia, (2) Shapard,

(3) Blankinship, (4) Hartzell,
(5) O’Connor and (6) Eggers
win singles titles.

(1) Garcia/Hartzell,

(2) Shapard/Blankinship and
(3) Foster/O’Connor win
doubles titles.

Sunday:

Baseball (11-18)

Tuesday: W&L 15 Lynchburg 6
Thursday: W&L 8 H-SC 3
Saturday: Guilford 12 W&L 2
Guildord 4 W&L 1
Sunday: E&H 6 W&L 4
E&H 5 W&L 4

Track

Saturday: Women placed 2nd in ODAC
Championship.
Men placed 3rd in ODAC

Championship.

Golf

April 22: Won ODAC championship

AHEAD

Men’s Lax:

Home vs. R-MC
Tuesday 3:30 p.m.

At VMI
Saturday 2:00 p.m.
Lee-Jackson Classic

Women’s Tennis: At NCAA National
Championships,
Claremont, California
May 6-12.

Men’s Tennis; At NCAA regionals,

Emory University,
Atlanta, Georgia,
May 9-1 1.

NCAA Division III
Championships, at
Washington and Lee,
May 16-21.

BY ANDREA EWING
PHI ASSOCIATE EDITOR

he Washington and Lee
track and field teams
competed in the Old Do-

minion Athletic Conference Out-
door Track and Field Champi-
onships Saturday. The women’s
team placed second and the
men’s took home third place.

The ﬁrst-place 4x400m relay
team of senior Hollis Leddy,
freshman Jill Kosch, senior Heath
Acuff and sophomore Natalia
Dorofeeva broke the ODAC
Conference record with its time
of4:12.12.

“This race ended the season
on a good note,” Acuff said.
“The 4x400m topped it off
and made it a great meet.”
Acuff won sixth place in the
400m and was part of the
winning relay team.

Dorofeeva placed first in the
800m and second in the 3000m.

“We had a really good year
thanks to our coaches,”
Dorofeeva said. “I was excited
to run, and I gave it everything I
had. This is one ofthe strongest
teams ever. We did our best and
worked really hard.”

Senior Natalie Messmore
won the 3000m with a time of
11:13.80, and sophomore Isaris
Bonilla placed second in the
200m and fourth in the 100m.
Freshman Meredith Mlynar
placed ﬁrst in the javelin with a
throw of 99.5m. Many other
members of the team claimed
third, fourth, ﬁfth and sixth place
ﬁnishes.

The men’s track and field
team also made a good showing.
Junior Omar Moneim won the
shot put with a throw of47.25m.
“This was my best throw all sea-
son,” Moneim said. He also
competed in thejavelin and dis-
cus competitions placing fourth
and sixth respectively.

Track teams finish season
with second, third at ODACs

Leddy, Kosch, Acuff and Dorofeeva break ODAC 4x400m record

Photo by Hollister Hovey, Phi Photo Editor

No pain, no gain.

Freshman Meredith Mlynar prepares to throw thejavelin at Saturday’s
ODAC Championships in Lynchburg. Mlynar won first place in the
javelin competition. The W&L women’s track team ﬁnished second

overall.

Senior Sandy Hooper won the
1500m and 800m. Sophomore Ja-
son Callen found victory in the
5000m with atime of 15:33.53 and
placed second in the 800. Junior
Will Olson took second in the
5000m.

“We did really well. This was
the best we have done all year,”
Moneim said. “The whole team
was well prepared and our perfor-
mance reflected that.”

.ODAC women’s championship

Sophomore Joe Bestic placed
third in the 400m hurdles. “It all
came together for that race,” he
said. “The team had some of its
best performances. Everyone
came together, and we did well.
We trained really hard (for the
competition)?’

Roanoke College was the

team, and Bridgewater College
claimed the men’s title.

Irabu, White Sox, Cubs lead surprises of baseball season  

The Big Fan
Scott Bookwalter ’98

For the first time in three years I
have some free time in Spring
Term. So I’ve been playing tennis
and Sega and watching some World
League football action now that my
exchange student roommate ﬁnally
left, so I am no longer subjected to
nonstop MSNBC. Not that there is
a difference in the excitement level.

It is way too early in the base-
ball season to label teams as disap-
pointments, but the two Chicago
teams are the leading contenders.
Many thought that the White Sox
would vault past the Indians in the
AL Central with the off season ac-

I BE CREATIVE AT

 

 

121 W. NEi.soN STREET, LExiNcToN

A CENTER FOR ARTISTIC EXPRESSION

DiNNERwARE I>iE<Es MADE BY vou.
YOU PAINT YOUR OWN DESIGN ON (UPS, BOWLS, PLATES, ETC.

WE ai.AzE 8: FIRE IT, AND vou HAVE A UNIQUE c.iET i=oR
MoTi-iER’s DAY

GRADUATION
WEDDiNas
BIRTH DAYS

AISOAVARIEIYOFGIFTHEMSFORALLOCCASIONS.
ASKABOU'l'(|.AY(l.AS$ES&BlR11-IDAY PAR11 ES.

 

464-4435

quisition ofAlbert Belle. Belle even
tried to be a nice guy for a couple
of months. Now Belle has hired a
personal security guard and is back
to spurning autograph requests.

As for the Cubs, what else is
new? The last time they won a
World Series, Teddy Roosevelt was
in office. Nobody thought they
would get that far this season, but
with Sosa, Sandburg, Grace and
Dunston around, they were ex-
pected to contend. Instead the Cubs
set an NL record for the worst Start
ever, going 0-14 before ﬁnally beat-
ing the hapless Mets.

Elsewhere in the Big Apple, the
Yankees and closer Mariano Rivera
are having their own problems. But
the Yankees provided the most en-

uti|_it:i£ g
C.|I..lbhC‘:
facilitie
price
pragra
ga I d e l'

progra

  
   
  

teitaining sports news of the week
by trading for Japanese superstar
Hideki Irabu.

Irabu’s story bears retelling. It
was his boyhood dream to pitch for
the Yankees. Just like it was my
dream to play wide receiver for the
Eagles. It hasn’t come true, but I’ve
somehow come to grips with it.
Most athletes can forsake playing
for the team of their dreams if the
other team offers enough money.
That hasn’t worked for Irabu.

The San Diego Padres owned ex-
clusive signing rights to him
through an agreement with his Japa-
nese team, but lrabu refused to Sign
with them and retreated to Japan.
You gotta love this guy, coming
into a new country, still unproved

price I air: I tn-wTIlInuc.:'.

lVIO\/ING TO
RICHMOND?

Women’s

tunes up for NCAA.

BY JASON ZACHER
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

he Washington and Lee

women’s tennis team swept

through the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament last
weekend in preparation for their trip to
the NCAA tournament. The Generals
only lost one set at the championship.

Junior Natalia Garcia continued her
domination of the ODAC, only losing
three games in the entire tournament,
beating Guilford’s Betsy Parker in the
final 6- 1, 6-2. Garcia was named
ODAC Player of the Year for the sec-
ond straight year. Garcia was not avail-
able for comment.

Following suit in the second ﬂight
was Junior Ericka Shapard, who took
her No. 2 singles ODAC title 6-0, 6-1 .
Also claiming singles titles forthe Gen-
erals were: (3) Junior Beny Blankinship
6-4, 7-5; (4) Freshman Brook Hartzell
6-0, 6-1 ; (5) Senior Anna O’Connor 6-

Men’s tennis sweeps ’ :
ODACs, Franke named
Coach of the Year

BY MATT CRAIG
PHI STAFF WRITER

After sweeping the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Men’s Ten-
nis Championships, the Generals are
now preparing for the NCAA Re-
gional Championships on May 9th
at Emory University.

Last Friday and Saturday, Wash-
ington and Lee won every match but
the No. 2 singles, in which Brett
Eckley from Hampden Sydney de-
feated W&L’s Dale Pretila 6-2, 6-3.

Senior Chris Higgs, who defeated
Hampden Sydney’s Campbell
Palmer to win the No. 3 singles, said,
“I’m really proud of the team and the
way we played. We worked hard and
desereved to win.”

In two sets, senior Peter
Hammond won the No. 1 singles
against Bryan Duquette from
Hampden Sydney 6-3, 6-4.
Hammond was chosen as the 1997

at the major league level and dic-
tating where he should play. Not
to bash Japanese baseball, but I
guess one would rack up big num-
bers facing the likes of Rob Deer.
So the Padres ﬁnally placated
lrabu last week by shipping him and
minor leaguers Homer Bush, Gor-
don Amerson and Vernon Maxwell
for Yankee prospects Ruben Rivera
and Rafael “Funky Cold” Medina
and $3 million. At ﬁrst glance you
would think the Padres go the bet-
ter of the deal since they were get-
ting something in return for a player
they would probably never sign.
But to me, the deal looks even. The
Padres received Rivera, who has
been hyped as the next Mickey
Mantle (except Rivera is currently

- [girdrn - frown urillrirw;

V

  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
     
     
    
     
   
    
   
    
     
   
   
   
    
  
   
 
    
 
     
   
  
    
    
  
     
   
  
   
   
   
    
 
     
   
  
   
   
    
    
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
    
   
    
   
   
  
   
    
   
 
   
 
 

tennis

2, 6-1; and (6) Erin Eggeis 6-0, 6-0.

“Mentally, we wanted a strong ﬁn-
ish to the ODACS,” said Hartzell. ‘y‘:Ve
really wanted to use it as a tune-up for
the nationals.”

The doubles teams of (1) Garcia
and Hartzell, (2) Blankinship and
Shapard, and (3) O’Connor and J ilhior
Mary Celeste Foster all claimed doubles
titles for the Generals. Only the team
of Garcia and Hartzell lost a set.

“Playing a lot of tough team dur-
ing the season really helped us,”
Hartzell commented, “We are a re-
ally strong team compared to the rest
ofthe ODAC teams.” ,

The Generals now turn their ey!-. to
the NCAA tournament, where they
placed second last year. “We are really
excited for nationals,” Hartzell said.

As of our publication time, th'
seedings for the NCAA toumaifieni
had not been decided. The touma
ment will be played from May 6-12
at Claremont, California.

ODAC Player of the Year.
In the No.1 Doubles mzhch
Hammond and Pretila dropper
Guilford College’s Drossman an(
Young 6-1, 6-3. Babka and Brad)
defeated Hampden Sydney’s Eclgley
Harrell No. 2 Doubles team 6-0,6-1
Gravender and Gray'bill frorr
Hampden Sydney lost to Higgs ant
Washburn 6-4, 6-4, in the No. I
Doubles match. ‘Tl

Overall, Washington and Lee ﬁr
ished the tournament with a score of 7
with Hampden Sydney coming in sec
ond, scoring 62. Virginia Weslgvai
rounded out the top three with a 3 .

Washington and Lee’s coach
Gary Franke, was named the ODA
Coach of the Year.

With two weeks before regiogal.
the team, although considered an “u
derdog,” remains optimisic. Higg
said, “We’re going to pull some upsets}
The Generals plan on providing so I
stiff competition on May 9. \}

injured, which is how The N71
spent a large part of his career), .»
enough money to satisfy Rick
Henderson for a couple of mont
The Padres were undoubtedl, t
next Nolan Ryan, Cy Young a
Hideo Nomo rolled into one, not .
mention baseball’s version of Ma
Max and a guy named Homer. "S
can you beat this team now? IV .g
as well pencil them into the ne
ﬁve World Series . . .
I’ve been waiting for Tig
Woods to give me a call and pla
golf with me, but I guess he h§sn
read any of my columns to kno\
who I am yet. At this rate, I ma_
have to settle for playing with th
affable Constantino Rocca, oigbet
ter yet, Fuzzy Zoeller.

     
 

I l'.Im.~s-s incilixies -1

    

school .

 

CEI1

THE APARTIVIENT
LOCATOR

.( . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . nub

moimiIun's FREE Locnuiz sEnvicE
Call for ln‘For'Ination and your Free Map

(3"o4 """""" 'jméé§"—l.E§'éP66

in Virginia (800) 55-42-3276
Nationwide (800) 568-7669
Fax (804) 329-6698

I-mess lav;-lilies 4 social ulogiarlls 0 hLll;U|S * I.U!lVlliII.:~L|3.|£ ‘ JJJJ |ul'.—iT:Iuso.-.5.

 
      

ﬁlﬂﬁﬁﬁi

       

- siz

    
    

- socia

    
        

  

price. - size ° townhouse: ° garden ° free utilities - ﬁtness Ir-cilltlavs. - socia

 .,’f__‘ __ .:

