    
       
 

A ‘f: l,

'1 “ ‘.- 
l<E>‘f.>'"2..
\/~ ‘It’?
A ii A‘ . ﬁ'
x E. »— '1.»-
I A <71 (6

Ultra ’4L’ting—tum iﬂhi

 

JAIuF;'fs  LEYBURN UBRARY
WAE£Hl:'\lG'l"O:’~l 3. LEE UNl‘VERSlTY
LEXINGTON,‘\/A 24459

MAY 281995

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 4

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 24, 1996

 GENERAL NOTES

‘ it “ACCESS TO THE EARTH” FINALE:

Monday May 27, represents a
‘ day-long series of music and art
exhibits celebrating the culmina-
), tion of the course,”Access to the
Earth.” Sculptures, musical com-
positions, and art installations can
be viewed fromWoods Creek to
the front lawn to Zollman’s .
Posters of the schedule are

A sprinkled across campus and can
be picked up along with maps and
brochures at DuPont Auditorium.

1

Decade, the organization
formed to celebrate the 10th anni-
versary of co-education at W&L,
‘ will participate in the 2nd Annual
Spring Fling Carnival and Battle
of the Bands at the Law School
Field today from 3-7pm.

Decade has been raising

5 money all year through t-shirt,
decal, and bake sales as well as
their upcoming concessions

1
\
Professor Lesley Wheelerofthe
English department has been se-
K lected as an American Fellow for

the upcoming year by The Ameri-
can Association of University
. Women (AAUW). She willjoin 63
colleagues selected from 1,000 ap-
,_( plicants. The organization hasbeen
awarding fellowships to women

Charles Hiltin, previously at
Long Island University, has been
named manager of media services

for managing and developing the

The school has recently estab-
lished the William McClintock
Honor Scholarship in honor of Mr.
 J. William McClintock ’53 atrustee
‘ from 1988 until his death in 1994.
While a student here McClintock

was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and

Omicron Delta Kappa, as well as

serving as president of SAE and
n A the Interfraternity Council.

The scholarship will be awarded

1 Religion Professor Neville
Richardson will deliver a lecture
entitled,”Riding the South African
Rollarcoaster: Religion and Soci-
ety from Apartheid into the 21st
Century,” on Thursday, May 23, at
7:30pm in room 327 of the C-
School.

Richardson is associate profes-
sor of religion at the School of
Theology, University of Natal, in

ﬁr

The Honorable Patricia
McGowan Wald , U.S. Circuit
‘ Judge in D.C., delivered the com-
mencement address at the Law
School last weekend. W&L gradu-
ated 121 third-year students in the
university’s 141 law class.

Wald commented on the diffi-
A culties of practicing law in the
90’s and of the many choices they
will have to make in the
future.Wald advised against the
trap of making,”either-or,” type

 

at W&L. Hitlin will be responsible.

The event will begin at 9am and
continue until 5 pm. At that time a
public lecture entitled,”Site-Spe-
ciﬁc Art and Access to the Earth,”
will be delivered by Stephen Korns.
Koms is a visiting artist-in—resi-
dence and a project coordinator. A
reception follows in DuPont at 6pm
as well as a final musical
performance entitled,”Sounds of
the Forest,” at 7:30pm near
Rockbridge Baths.

DECADE BATTLE OF THE BANDS:

and booth at the Spring Fling. ‘

The group is rasing funds for a
$10,000 Decade Award schol-
arship for a well-rounded, ac-
tive, rising junior woman.

The Spring Fling this year will
include the action packed Battle of
the Bands, airball, Sumosuits, a
Velcro wall, human foosball, mini-
golf, clowns, face painting and
much more.

WHEELER GRANTED FELLOWSHIP:

for 108 years and since then has
granted over $31 million to women
scholars from all over the world.

Professor Wheeler graduated Phi
Beta Kappa from Rutgers and
earned her Masters and PhD from
Princeton. She is a published
poet with work appearing in nu-
merous journals.

HILTIN NAMED MEDIA MANAGER:

resources and services of the li-
brary media center as well as evalu-
ating, consulting, and demonstrat-
ing on all aspects of our techno-
logical needs at W&L.

'4 MCCLINTOCK SCHOLARSHIP:

to an entering student with an out-
standing record of achievement and
who demonstrates promise for fu-
ture leadership. ‘

The first recipient of the award

has already been named for theclasser »

of 2000-8. Jacob Roche of
Lake Arthur, La. Roche is class
Valedictorian, 4 time class presi-
dent, and a Lousiana Boy’s
State Representative.

MCCLINTOCK SCHOLARSHIP:

Pietermarirzburg, South Africa.
Here on his second academic ap-
pointment he is teaching a spring
course on,”Christian Ethics in the
New South Africa: Religion, Race,
and Politics.”

Richardson specializes in theo-
logical ethics and received his
M.Phil from Oxford and PhD
from the University of Natal in
South Africa.

WALD ADDRESSES LAW GRADS:

decisions and following a single
course, especially for the woman
who frequently face the,”mommie-
trap.”

Among some of the awards pre-
sented during the ceremony was
the John W. Davis Prize for Law to
Brian Alexander Howie for the
highest cumulative grade point av-
erage. The Academic Progress
Award went to Kristen K. Johnstone
for the most satisfactory scholastic
progress in the final year.

Compiled by Rachel Goddu

Sam Levine, Phi Photo Editor

Jammin’ en francais

Liz Detter, Gretchen Hall, Christine
Bragg and Kelley Totten ham it up for
“Oh les beaux jours!’ (above)

    

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

Students present avante garde plays

BY LAURA GooDwIN
PHI STAFF WRITER

h les beaux jours! This set of
short plays and scenes, per
formed by Domnica

Radulescu’s French 328 class and di-
rected by Professor Radulescu showed
at the Lenfest Center May 21, 22 and
23.

W&L’s French community came
out to see these one acts to find com-
edy and irony running rampant. The
first scene, Ionesco’s “La Lecon”
billed as a “comic drama” shows an
arithmetic lesson gone bad in which
the teacher ends up killing his student.

“La Lecon” was followed by four
very short, amusing scenes. In the
first scene, a rather unusual women,
played in this class’s rendition by four
girls, is in the process of seducing a
gloomy young man. She informs him

that she has her own language in which

everythig is called “chat,” the French
word for “cat.” He asks her how to say
a variety of phrases and to each query

. she replies “cat.”

The other three scenes are equally
funny and strange, with a man crush-
ing a woman’s eye while attempting
to apologize for bumping into her, a
“mouth” spilling out the unhappy de-
tails of its life, and three cross-
dressed females hagglin g over a cross-

Ba tion of Morm n v I ?

 

N ew owners ma-keove

dressed male.

The final play features a woman,
Winnie, buried up to her chest, and
later her head, who describes her life
to to her friend, Willie. Her entire life
seems to be encased in a black bag that
lies beside her, from which she pulls
various articles during the show.

“The class has been a lot of fun,”
Liz Detter commented. “You really
get to know your classmates a lot
better in this kind of setting. Acting
in French has really been an
interesting experience.”

Cheryl Puzon added, “Dawayne
Bailey put it best. There is a grace in
going ape-shit on stage, and I think we
achieved it.”

 
   

_ > OPINION
‘GENERATION lax

BY LIZ DETTER
PHI STAFF WRITER

n Monday, May 13, 1996, a new era at
Southern Virginia College began with the
takeover of the college by a Mormon

Board of Trustees. The new chairman of the Board
of Trustees is Glade Knight, president and chairman
of Cornerstone Realty Income Trust of Richmond,
and a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
Day Saints.

Knight, together with Roger Barrus and a group
of Mormons, bought Southern Virginia College for
Women with the intent to establish a coeducational,
four-year college based upon Mormon principles.

Southern Virginia College is not officially affili-
ated with the Mormon church; however, the bylaws,
honor code, and code of conduct have been amended
to more closely coincide with Mormon values.
SVC’s Public Relations Representative Grace Sarber
stated, “They are very vocal asbout being non-
sectarian, but they are also vocal about having
conservative Mormon values.”

Future students and faculty at SVC will be ex-
pected to dress modestly, and refrain from the use of
tobacco, alcohol, and drugs. Although coffee, tea,
and caffeinated colas are prohibited by Mormons,
they will be allowed on campus—students can still
get their Jolt.

The dorms will be single-sex, and there will be
no fraternizing of men and women in dorms. Un-
doubtedly, this is designed to prevent “hooking-
up” of the sort that occurs on most non-sectarian
campuses. Trustee Roger Barrus was quoted in the
Rockbridge Advocate as saying, “Premature sexu-
ality is the scourge of America.”

However, Sarber said that students will be al-

lowed to leave campus and behave as they see fit.
Perhaps we will still see SVC girls, and guys, at our
fraternity parties.

The new trustees lost their appeal of the decision
of the college accreditation board. and hope to
regain accreditation. They are currently in the
process of applying for accreditation as a new four-
year college.

There are also plans to re-vamp the curriculum.
The equestrian program will remain, but the Sociol-
ogy department has been eliminated. Students will
not have a major, but will all take core courses
focusing on “Great Books.”

The “Great Books” program is modeled after the
curriculum at St. John’s College, a very small lib-
eral arts college in Annapolis, Maryland. However,
SVC’s program will be much more conservative.
Darwinism and other “questionable” ideas will be
censored.

By remaining ofﬁcially non-sectarian, SVC is
eligible for $500,000 in state job-retention grants.
Tuition has been lowered from $11, 500 to $9, 000.

The Mormon church is one of the fastest-growing
churches in America. Presently, there are only two
Mormon institutions of higher education, Brigham
Young University and Ricks College. The Mormon
group’s initial proposal to take over the school stated
that only 35, 000 of the approximate 500,000 Mor-
mons of college age can attend BYU and Ricks.

SVC will be the only Mormon school east of the
Mississippi. The school hopes to begin classes in
the fall with about 250 students, and eventually
increase their numbers to -1500. Buena Vista can
expect to be flooded with students desiring a strict,
church-oriented education.

W&L can also expect to feel the impact of the
changes in SVC. If the plans for SVC succeed, the
new Mormon college will eventually grow larger

''    5 V C

Ring-tum Phi file photo

than either VMI or W&L.

The contrasts between the student body at W&L
and that at the new SVC are apparent. Gone are the
days of tying pledges to the ﬂagpole at Sem, or of
road-trips to Buena Vista. It will be interesting to
see how Greeks and Mormons mix in the BV—
Lexington metropolitan area.

W,§;,LnjR;‘g9:The carnival comes to town

Betsy compares us to the rest of our generation. Josh
‘Heslinga argues for a flat tax. page 2

} FEATURES

Noises off bursts onto the Lenfest stage to-
,_night. Alex Christensen, familiar with impos-

sible missios, reviews Tom Cruise in the movie

role taken directly from your parents’ TV screen.

Take a walk with Tarah Grant and find out
,where Lex’s spooks reside. page 3

F SPORTS

Josephine Schaeffer’s record-break-
ing career draws to a close. The Big
Fan presents ideas to keep you enter-
tained this summer. The WLU R/Ring-
tum Phi awards are bestowed upon
members of the men’s athletic teams.
page 6

 

 

 

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI STAFF WRITER

roceeds from this year’s sec
ond annual Spring Fling Car
nival, to be held today from 3
to 7 p.m. at the Law School Field, will
contribute to a Decade Scholarship.
This year’s Spring Fling Carnival
was sponsored by the Student Activi-
ties Ofﬁce, the Friday’s Committee
and the Decade Committee. In addi-
tion, members of APO volunteered to
work in the game booths, and the
women’s volleyball team offered to
organize the air ball tournament.
According to Michelle Richardson,
the Carnival is funded by the Student
Activities budget, which is separate
from the SAB'budget and does not
draw from W&L students’ activity
fees. The Carnival raises money by
selling concessions, such as pop corn
and beverages, and by hosting a “Battle
of the Bands,” in which students can
vote for their favorite bands by donat-
ing money to the Carnival on behalf of

those bands. This year, the proceeds
from the Carnival will contribute to a
Decade Scholarship, to be awarded to
a rising junior. This is the first year for
the Decade Scholarship.

Betsy Green, emcee for the
“Battle ofthe Bands,” commented
that the Decade Committee wanted
to establish a scholarship as a “last-
ing way to remember coeducation at
W&L.” The Decade Committee, as
described by Green, works with ex-
isting groups on campus in lectures
and art exhibits which have been in-
ﬂuenced by co-education at Wash-
ington and Lee.

The Decade Committee hosted
this year’s Battle of the Bands to
both raise funds for the Decade
Scholarship and to extend itself to the
whole student body. “In addition to
the art exhibits and lectures,” Green
stated, “we wanted to do something
fun that the whole school could be
involved in.” Green added, “After
all, one ofthe major contributions
of women to W&L has been to the
social scene.”

Photo by Betsy Green

Professor Rush’s son William attempts the Velcro Wall at the
1995 carnival.

 

 

 

} PAGE 2

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi,

MAY 24, 1996

Letters to the Editor

Thanks for award

To the Senior Class:

I am ﬂattered and deeply grateful
to be named a recipient of this year’s
Ring-tum Phi Award. I am also em-
barrassed that I was not present at
Senior Night to receive it. Somebody
forgot to invite me. I know this letter is
a poor substitute for saying what I
should have said in person. Again,
please accept my heartfelt thanks.

But you’re not getting my Bud
Light.

Sincerely,
Brian Richardson

Colonnade art defended

Dear Editor,

We hate to use your paper as a
source of rebuttal; however, we feel
now is the time to address those per-
sons who fear change and experience.
Once again, an anonymous letter sur-
faced in the Trident where someone
deemed themselves as an authority on
other persons’ right to express them-
selves. Seventeen students have paid
over $20,000 for tuition, $65 for class
dues, $25 in lab fees and unrecorded
amounts on their individual projects.
Since they have paid this money to
receive the best education, we think it
absurd that someone chose to trample
on their academic growth.

With all the problems at Wash-
ington and Lee, why have five mounds
of clay provoked so much controversy?
Are they only to be compared with the
cans, paper cups, newspapers, bottles
and cigarette butts that adorn our hill?
Or the bulletin board in front of Gra-
ham-Lees which happened to be
knocked down by a drunk passer-by a
few weeks ago? Have you ever wit-
nessed the vandalism of the Cadaver
Society? Is the effort spent in weeks of
labor by a dedicated artist and profes-
sor to be dismissed as mere “lumps of
dirt”? As true aspiring artists, we ob-
serve these mounds and other works
now appearing on campus represent a
determination to realign ourselves in
nature, the community and
the university.

In an institution where gross ex-
penditures for student activities seem
to be of little concern, our focus should

be upon the intellectual motivations,

behind ouractions-notiipon’condemn-
ing those who encourage us to think.

The “Earth Mounds” in front of
Tucker Hall representasingle person’s
effort to broaden our concept, as stu-
dents of life, of what Art is. Simply
raisingtheissueoftheiraestheticvalue
and physical effect has a value of its
own. The fact that they are temporary
and will be removed in another week,
we believe, isatestimony to the amount
of respect Stephen Korns has for both
our traditions and the beauty of the
colonnade. Their success is measured
by their capacity to promote dialogue

and exchange.
Let us accept this challenge with

the same care with which this artwork

has been presented. We invite you to
join us Monday, May 27, to experi-
ence the entire program of visual and
musical works which offer “Access
to the Earth.”

Sincerely,

Jack Thorn ’97

Robert McKinnon ’97

Not all freshmen unhappy

To the editor:

As a member of the Class of
1999, I read with great interest your
front-page tirade entitled “Freshmen
express W&L dissatisfaction.” As a
member of the class of 1999, I write
this letter to contest your conclusions
pertaining to the attitude of my class.

I shall never have the pleasure of
challengingthoseanonymoussources
who appeared in the article, but I do
believe that I am uniquely qualiﬁed
to refute their arguments. Late in the
Winter Semester I spent nearly 30
hours speaking with my classmates
about their concerns for Washington
& Lee. Of the hundreds of students
with whom I spoke, only a handful
expressed real dissatisfaction with
either the Honor System or the frater-
nity system. I was thus rather sur-
prised by the theme of the article; the
details surprised me even more.

I was amazed by the fact that
independents want a stronger Stu-
dent Union. I had imagined that the
decision to remain “independent” was
based on an aversion to strongly or-
ganized groups. Additionally, a Stu-
dent Union program would probably
increase the cost of tuition (which
might just reinforce that chimerical
“country club, old money” tradition
which people fear).

I was amazed to find that some
people believe the administration has
no interest in changing ourtraditions.
Most of the people I know believe
that the administration is determined
to weaken our fraternities. 1 person-
ally wish to see a stronger fraternity
system. Although they suffer from
many negative stereotypes, the fra-
ternity system I admire is an autono-
mous group of students who provide
for their own activities and perform
community service (Blood Drives,
etc.). The fraternities even provide
activities for non-members every
weekend——free of charge.

I was amazed that there are
people who expect us to have a large
amount of life experience and matu-
rity after only nineteen years on
the planet.

I was amazed that people are
offended by the similarities between
many of our students and the J. Crew
models. Would they be less dissatis-
ﬁed if I sported a mohawk and a
nose ring?

The final point to amaze me was
your concusion that “it is difﬁcult to
pinpoint reasons for what appears to

} See Freshmen, page 4

Quote of the Week:

“So, What did y'all think of those
Saturday Night Live skits?”

- sorority woman struggling for conversation with
a visiting Tri Delt

 

dent.

and obscenity.

Ellie ilttng-mm lﬂlii

Executive Editor ............................................................... "Anne Alvord
Managing Editor.... ............................................. ..Christine Gamavish
News Editor .................................................................. ..Hi1lary Coombs
Editorial Page Editor ........................................................ ..Jason Zacher
Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman
Features Editor .......................................... ..C. E. Miller. Dan Odenwald
Photography Editor ............................................................. ..Sam Levine
Editorial Cartoonists .................................. ..Phil Flickinger. Torn Fallace
Business Manager ............................................................. ..Will Hershey
Assistant Business Manager .......................................... ..Doug Ghertner
Advertisement Composition Artist ...................................... ..'l‘arah Grant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive
editor and business manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi ofﬂce, room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters.
columns, and “My Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4059
Fax: (540) 462-4060

  

   

 
     
   
 
    
   

   

 
   

Flatter means fairer

Ends & Means
Joshua Heslinga ‘98
P resignation from the Senate
last week as a bold move that
would inject a new vitality in his vital-
ity into his campaign for the presi-
dency, and early results indicate that
they were right. Nonetheless, Republi-
cans should look toward another event
from last week to find the winning
formula for 1996.
The day after Dole’s resignation,
House Majority Leader Dick Armey,

along with Bill Archer, the chairman
of the House Ways and Means com-

undits applauded Bob Dole’s

mittee, and the other principle Repub-

lican sponsors of tax reform legisla-
tion, held a press conference where
they signed a commitment to a set of
six principles for the radical changes
Republicans will enact in the income
tax code if their majorities hold
next year.

Despite their personal differences
about whether to adopt a ﬂat tax or a
national sales tax, these men gathered
to unite behind a system that “applies
a single, low rate to all Americans;
requires a supermajority of both cham-
bers of Congress to raise taxes;

provides tax relief for workin g Ameri-
cans, protects the rights of taxpayers
and reduces tax collection abuses;
eliminates the bias against savings and
investment; and promotes economic
growth and job creation.”

These Republican lawmakers re-
alize that the American people will no
longer suffer under the current bur-
densome tax code. Americans pour
nearly 5.4 billion man-hours each year,
costing over $232 billion, into the
black hole of compliance with our tax
code. This sum amounts to more than
$900 for every person in America.

Tax reform must form one of the
pillars of any winning Republican vi-
sion, as it presents one of the clearest
examples of how the Republicans stand
for innovation and liberty while the
Democrats stand for nothing more
than, to use Armey’s words, “raising
the status quo.” For the past several
elections, Republicans have had suc-
cess only when they have succeeded
in making taxes a key issue in
the campaign.

To build momentum for the com-
ing effort, Armey has released a pa-
perback book entitled The Flat Tax
that begins with the 10 line form with
which he prooposes to revolutionize
the way Americans relate to
their government.

A ﬂat tax means simplicity. Each
and every American would lose the
sense of hopelessness that sets in ev-
ery yearwhen they confront theirtaxes,
to be replaced by conﬁdence after
completing their ta form in about
five minutes..

A ﬂat tax means fairness. No
longer would we live under a system
where only the rich and powerful spe-
cial interests can invest the time and
resources necessary to beat the sys-
tem. No longer would lobbyists be
able to buy hidden tax favors from
government, because all individuals
and businesses would be treated ex-
actly the same.

A flat tax means freedom. Ac-
cording to the non-partisan Tax Foun-
dation, the average American family
now pays more than 40 percent of
their income in federal, state, and lo-
cal taxes, meaning that this year,
Americans worked until May 7 just to
earn the money to pay off
their government.

A ﬂat tax would return this money
to those who earned it. Armey’s plan
would establish an $11,350 allowance
for a single person ($22,700 for a
married couple) and a $5,300 allow-
ance for each dependent. All income
above these figures would be taxed at
a rate of 17 percent across the board,

-rm: Gaumurrou I-«Ex FILE-f
‘II.
‘V i
":.i:.
"L I‘ EARTH names? ~,
_._ Ago THEY
SAY out cite?
«was M W‘ ’.“‘..‘..‘.‘...2°.Z“Z‘§'
THERE'S A W&L.
§ecutuf'( VEHKLE H
MEMO‘-t so 1:
(AN 60 FOR A
skin! <_.}.
A
P
A
‘I
P

it
meaning that a family of four would

pay no taxes on their first $33,300
of income.
A flat tax would mean growth and

opportunity throughout America. If’

would end the punishing double tax
on savings and investment, as well as
the cruel legacy of estate taxes.

And finally, a ﬂat tax is feasible;
and enforceable, unlike a national sales
tax, which would require the impos-
sible act of repealing the 16th amend-
ment and countering the incredible.
incentives to fraud that a 15 or 20
percent increase in prices would cause.

A new study by the respected
National Center for Policy Analysis
shows that the poor would gain th
most from a flﬁt tax and that a ﬂat tax
will even increase government rev-
enues by more than $24 billion due to
the increased economic activity a ﬂat
tax will stimulate.

Americans want a president with
vision, and the ﬂat tax should be the
cornerstone of our new vision for
America. Americans rebelled one
already against an onerous and unfair
tax code, beginning with just a few
Bostonians and some tea. it’s time for
America to start a second Freedom
Revolution, beginning with thtﬂ
ﬂat tax.

2 generations: X vs. Lex’

Green Land
Betsy Green ‘97

It’s been said that the W&L expe-
rience is much like spending four years
in a bubble. I couldn't agree more. It’s
easy to be separated from what’s going
on in the world when you live in a small
town, where it’s hard to see new mov-
ies or hear new music. It’s easy to miss
important news events when the news
is on opposite The Simpsons. But be-
sides being isolated from the world as
a whole, I feel that we are especially
isolated from other people in our gen-
eration. Our experience is so different
that we're almost like a different gen-
eration. Phil Flickinger’s cartoons are
accurate. We are not Generation X. We
are Generation Lex.

When I first read the term Genera-
tion X, instead of getting all angst-
ridden about hating to be labelled, I
thought it was pretty cool. This is prob-
ably one of the first signs that I didn’t
quite fit in with other Gen X’ers. My
parents are Baby Boomers. There are
news stories all the time about them,
TV shows showing their childhood
experiences, even their own edition of
Trivial Pursuit. I thought, at last, my
friends and I would get to enjoy some
of the same things. Wrong again.

Reality Bites was hailed as one of
the first Generation X centered mov-
ies. I’ve seen it twice and have been

V completely unable to relate, no matter

how hard I tried. Remember how they
were always talking about how broke
they were? Icould understand that. But
at the same time, they managed to

always have Rolling Rock beer on
hand. Where’s the Olympia? The
Schlitz? The Natural Light? Genera-
tion Lex would have spent the extra
money Rolling Rock would have cost
to get more buzz for their buck. Iguess
that’s why we have so many pre-cor-
porate C-school majors here, some-
thing you’d never find in the land of
Generation X. Being one of those C-
school types (actually, as politics ma-
jor, I’m probably C-school Lite), I
was also shocked by the way Winona
Ryder’s character went about looking
for a job. Yes, she was bright and
ambitious, but I kept thinking, “She’s
wearing that to a job interview? Why
doesn’t she brush her hair?” And
through the entire movie, I couldn’t
figure out if she was supposed to end
up with Ben Stiller or Ethan Hawke. I
was heavily leaning towards the happy
Ben Stiller, in his cute suits, which
shows what I know.

Music is another thing that’s sup-
posed to unite us twentysomethings,
but there is a clear difference between
Generation X and Generation Lex. I
read an article in a copy of GO that
Dan Odenwald left in the office in
which a fortyish man attempted to
blend into our youth culture. He dis-
covered this great music schism. If
you are our age and don’t have a job,
you listen to Hole, Rage Against the
Machine, or anything on an indie labe.
Good angry songs. If you are our age
and do have a job, you listen to Hootie
and the Blowfish, Rusted Root, or
Dave Matthews Band. Do I have to
tell you what side of that divide Gen-
eration L.ex is on?

We don’t even dress cool enough

to be bona fide members of our own
generation. When I lived in Seattle
last summer, I’d go out dressed in my
typical W&L summer wear—
sundresses, FD shirts, baseball caps. I
felt completely different from the
people my age I saw on the streets. I
wore sandals. They wore platform
shoes. How dorky of me to wear col-
ors other than black. How boring of
me to have hair of only one color, and
an earth tone at that. You can bet the
typical slacker doesn’t own any-
thing khaki.

“. . . they
have skate-
boards. We
have sport

utility
vehicles”

The differences between Genera-
tion X and Generation Lex go on and
on. They have skateboards. We have
sport utility vehicles. They have AIDS.
We have eating disorders. They worry -
about whether or not their body pierc-
ing will get infected. We worry about
whether. or not we’ll get dates to FD.
They watch Clerks. We
watch Clueless.

The great difference is mainly in
attitude. Generation Lex has an
optimism about it that X’ers lack. We

may not have jobs yet, but we’re con-
ﬁdent that we will. And we could get
depressed and worry about it, or we
could go to Goshen and have some
fun. I think that’s because we are ablel‘
to live in a happy bubble for four
years, where everyone knows you,
where you have lots of friends who
care, where people can trust each other, ,
where honesty is reality, and where
parking is one of the biggest concerns.
So, are we hopelessly separated
from the rest of our generation? I be- \
lieve that a connection is still possible)’
Over the Internet (and if that’s not Gen
X, I don’t know what is) I got a for-
ward about being a Child of the Eight-

ies. Our childhood experiences give’

us unity as a generation. I know I
could invite the most hardened slacker
over to my apartment, and we could
have a conversation about early Ma-
donna music andjelly shoes. We could‘
talk about how Star Wars was one of
the coolest movies ever. We’d wax
nostalgic about the Atari 2600. Slacker
Friend might even think I was cool
when she found the autographed pic)‘
ture of B0 Duke from The Dukes of
Hazzard that my fiance Steve put in
the bathroom. (It says, “To Stephen,
Yee Haa!!! John Schneider). I’d do“
my trusty old ALF imitation and we’d'
be fast friends.

So, this summer, if you find your-
self in a Starbucks surrounded by
people your age who seem a lot coolers
than you are, don’t panic. Just start
humming the theme song to The
Smurfs and you’ll be in.

La, la, la, la, la, la . . .

~, r
”""‘ "‘”"‘ '  “”‘“° “""%  V .- 9
.
- .

 

  
   

   

   

1

‘ The Ring-tum Phi, MAY 24, 1996 l L

6

ugne. C
\,\'{:9 rm.
Vt-\\ \qqc.>"'
t'\'._\«-,-7 r-,4vJc'I.‘~ '
 t  i. —'.

D1:-F Mission

“It'll be like Sneakers
TARAH GRANT

Phi STAFF WRITER

PAGE 3

  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
   
   

meets Top Gun 1 ”

**‘3r of4 stars; nearly incoherent but fun

After all, it is not painful to watch the
movie, and (primarily, I am convinced,
because of the old Mission: Imp
sible theme by Lalo Schifrin)
the action is really cooking, it m
as fast and powerful as anythingever 
has on screen.

The problems, then, are not
whelming. Here they are. The p A s
pretty much incomprehensible. If 9 u
bother to try to follow it, or retra
you will immediately find an inc
sistency. Then you will think, “Wait
Is that really an inconsistency?” Yo
will sit forward in your seat and c
vince yourself something deeper
going on for a second, then realiz 
were right the first time. It was ju
inconsistency. Do not panic. It is ; __
a movie, after all. Something will bl
up soon and that will be fun. Es .,
cially if they play the music. Doot.
Doot! Doot! Doot! Doo-doo-d
Another problem is that few of ,
very, very good actors are utilized
their fullest. Kristin Scott-Tho
Emilio Estevez, Henry Czerny, J ,_
Reno, Emmanuelle Beart, Vi
Rhames, all have range that is ne
explored. And just a little exploratio
might have added some weight
substance to the story that would
it more thanjust a twisty little no
of a film. As it is, though, Crui
competent, and Vanessa Redgra
steals the movie, making Cruise lo
like a choirboy who has been sin
too high for too long.

When you think of Cruise films
this will never top the list. When
thinkofDePalmafilms,thiswillno, r
top the list. When you think ofa ’ n
films, this will nevertopthe list. Wh
you think of ﬁlms made from se‘
popular sixties television series, t
probably would not even make the to
five.

Oh well. You can’t have e
thing, Iguess. Still, you can’t help
feel that a couple of weeks more '
pre-production, a nice quick scr
«rewrite by Quentin Tarantino or V

:rieF.isher or Elaine May, or even 
abit more Lalo Schifrin, take-no
oners theme music could only h
added.

As it is, I would have to say to hea
in with low expectations, don’t think
too much, and make sure to pay mati-
nee price, because it is worth it.

ALEXCHRISTENSEN
P%ihA0wE(hunc

The summer movies are officially upon us,
may heaven be merciful. Don’t get me wrong. I
am looking forward to this season, not just
because of the big—budget studio films like The
Arnold Movie and The Big Reptile Movie and
The Jim Carrey Movie, but also because of some
independents or risk-takers like Trainspotting,
from Danny Boyle, the director of Shallow
Grave, Francis Ford Coppola’s Jack, starring
Robin Williams (“Oh, Ihate that disease!”), and
the star-packed A Time to Kill, which, I am
convinced, will bring a much-deserved Oscar to
Samuel L. Jackson, and I do not even have to see
it to say that.

That is why I was looking forward to Mis-
sion: Impossible, from director Brian DePalma,
the twisted, disturbed man who brought us Car-
rie, The Untouchables, and Carlito’s Way. Un-
fortunately, Mission: Impossible is not up to his
usual standard. Oh, it is certainly watchable,
even entertaining, but there is too much missing
to class it with even his average pictures. Is this
just the burden of being too successful, a big
name? Maybe so, but even factoring this in,
Mission: Impossible is still not much more than
a star-driven, big—budget B movie. The Bonﬁre
of the Vanities offers more pathos and emo-
tional involvement, and MELANIE GRIFFITH
is in it!

There is probably not much reason to be so
down on it. Some have already second—hand
their nioua dedication to the old tried to evaluate the rumors and buzz coming
adage that «the Show must go out of production to assess blame with the many
on» screenwriters who were brought in to write and

Noises off will conciude rewrite the thing during shooting, or with Tom
Cianciuiiiss drama career at Cruise, the producer, for exerting too much
Washington and Lee_ The Pro_ control over DePalma, etc., etc. That would be
duetion was herudream nroi-ect_v a waste of breath. The only and true culprit lS
Reflecting hack on the rehearS_ Hollywood, which does not care to take a half-
ais and work that She has put second to try to make an okay movie really
into making the dream reality, exceptional, as long as_it can draw an audience.
She concludes that it was uev_ And Mission: Impossible is guaranteedtto do
erything and nothing» she that. One ofmy friends heard that the movie was
thought it would be opening Wednesday, but she could not make it

Theater Veteran Denis Riva to that showing. So I said, Why not wait_unt’il
aiso prefers to remain Vague but Friday, so you can read my review and see if it s

guaranteesthatthe audiencewill Worth Soing 307,‘, “Ycahv Tight»-”” -' - V

be overwhelmed withthe play’~s~  ~ :-50-1 haV-9 ‘.‘,°=l“-U5i0“S .3b0u.‘*vm¥ 
humor. “There area lot of funny to add 0.’-.d.‘?—"3.‘?l from the huge b°X.0f.fiC° ‘his.

bits but the audience has to wait movie will bring in, or forthat matter any movie
to See it,’ said Riva who uiays critic s. It will make two. hundred million dol-
Lioyd_ «Theyvii be Surprised” lars, and Tom Cruise Will be able to pay the

performances will begin at mortgage. (Whew! I know we were all worried
8:00 pm on Friday, Monday, for the k‘d-I _ , _
and Tuesday, and at 2:00 pm on And nobody will feel too ripped off, either.
Sunday. Tickets are available at
the Lenfest Box Office.

“I only have to take my pants
off this time instead of all my
clothes,” freshman Wes
Armstrong assures potential au-
dience members, referring to
how he shocked many people
with his birthday suit in Noon.

Getting to see Armstrong in
his underwear again is just one
of the motivations for students
to go see the Lenfest Center’s
production of Noises Off this
weekend. Opening tonight, this
“farce about a farce” offers stu-
dents a final laugh before the
reality of exams and graduation
sets in.

“I chose to direct Noises Off
because it so honestly portrays
what really happens in theater,”
explained Director Phaedra
Cianciulli. “My father is adirec-
tor and when he saw it, he just
couldn't laugh; it’s so painfully
real”

The play follows a touring
company of actors and theircrew
working on a production of the
play Nothing On. Sound cues
are off. Actors mess up. Props
disappear. While trying to sus-
tain their sanity, they maintain

3-R

I

ngles her chains like a female Jacob Marly. We ’re not exactly sure

St t f L'b ft 'th I -
a ue 0 I C by W1 though. Some spiritual tykes from Staunton came in a few years

art; my art entertains.

A Phi STAFF 

 GRANT.

“I ask you to open your mind as jewetravel back through time to hear the
‘moans and groans of soldiers, to:listen’tothe cries ofNativeAmericans, and to

a 4 feel the spirits ofour pioneer forefdthers..”.ﬁ’_iThe guide, clad in a Victorian cape,

holds up his lantern, illuminatingja narrowalley between buildings. “Stay
together, watch your step, watch ’whoVtyou_.may.step on... ”

When there is something strange intiie neighborhood, Lex'ington residents
Vwill soon know who to cail.‘ Marl: Cline and his wife Sherry are looking for

it stories to add to their recently established buSiness— ghost tours of the town of

0, people were coming to us with stories.” ; at

Lexington. , a . VV V
The first stop is The Castle ‘to e of the oldest buildings in the town of
Lexington. It was one ofthefewp es thdtsurvived a ﬁreithat burnt down most
of the town. Under a  streetlamp, the ghost walkers and their
elongated shadows gather around ithe tour guidevand he tells the story of Phil
None who stares out his window, waitingfor his lost loveto return. “He still
waits for her, watching the moonIatIttight.'_;;€xcept now thatelectric light blocks
his view so he wills it to shut off7” he capricious streetlamp ﬂickers off as if
cued -V I: _f:’ 2 
The Clines came up with the idea to start a ghost tour business when they
were on their honeymoon in London. “We saw a brochure for a Jack the Ripper
" tour and thought it was a really neat idea,’?.V said Mark Cline. I V
They had heard about the ghost tours of Williamsburg, another one of
Virginia’s historic towns, and decided to took into the feasibility of starting a
business in Lexington. “We did some research and started interviewing people.
Their reactions were very positive. They started telling other people and soon

 

  

“What are the chances that we are going to see any apparitions tonight? ” a
tour group member asks. I ’ I  I I

Cline responds with a smile. i

Personally, Cline admits to never having seen a ghost. But that doesn’t mean

a that they don’t exist. He wants to make clear though, that his tours are just

entertainment, a “form of close-up, interactive theater.” Cline will limit tour
groups to under twenty people a walk to maintain the intimacy of the tour. “I’m
more theatrical than business. I have to do both but I want the quality to come
through.” ~ I  .

In previous endeavors, Cline has successfully managed to merge his love for

‘the arts and the necessity to bring in money. After graduating high school, Cline

opened the Enchanted Castle, the entertainment park off Rt. 11. “lt’s a mini-
Disneylarid; the best way to describe it is that it’s like walking through Willie
Wonka’s Chocolate Factory.” Cline’s work has ﬂowed over the Castle walls
and across the country. He designs and creates ﬁgures for Jellystone Amuse-

ornent Parks and Putt-Putt Golf. . In Lexington, his figures have populated

The ghost walkersie
undisturbed unlike the  that dwell there. The tour g,
to the house number I Iiangsjabove a darkly Ii I I
group membershold their breath, iaining to hear th
has it that the  niasion‘  by a W&L V t _
on the stairsttt ltllg  la  violin sole dedt . 

   
  
 
 
 

 

dog that sat.-at}! . V_Ti'me progressed, the 
the dog passed V " till  to listen to 

 cold cement stairi .  
“ s to Washington and Lee University

one of the tour guides is auW&L alu
theater major and-now isaself-”procla:_iin ,
“We don’t wont any aridity inthevw
Daughtrey’s co-guide, Marshal
does acting at Lime Kiln. 
While on initial tours they have __
Daughtrey will each lead their: own  group when the business open
the public on May 31. The pltinned II V VV
and zigzags tourists in the ve  of ‘
staircases, and into desolate corner
 Stopping behind Harbs’,  ghos
apartment. The lady who lives there
noises at night. She hasn’t read the

 
 
  
  
 
     
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
 

  

  

   
  
  
  
  
 
  

the tour ay be partly attributed to the fact thatéé

ing course is appronriately 1_.3;Vmiles-

  

d a seance, and learned some very ﬁightening things. There was
itted here. A baby was thrown out the window. Perhaps the

V V ghost walkers cross the street and enter the quintessential setting for the
sharing’ of ghost-stories. Describing it as the Cadillac of cemeteries, the tour
guide gives a briefhistory of the graveyard on Randolph Street and its residents
“There are some provocatively shaped tombstones here, but we won ’t talk
about that... ” Instead, he tellsthe story ofHatwell sisters who brought the “new
girl ” to the graveyard on a Snipe Hunt: “The creak of the gate was loud enough
to wake the dead. The girls walked through and felt a breeze blow past their
faces. ‘A re you scared, honey ? ’ She was scared enough to wet herIIpants but she
didn ’t say anything... ”
“There ain’t nothing in that cemetery. I don’t believe in nothing like that,”
declares Beau Brown who has lived in Lexington for seventy-ﬁve years. “Dead

 people aren’t goiri’ to hurt you, it’s the live ones you gotta watch out for.”

V Brown’s_V_friend, Bob Hagens laughs at Brown’s over-confidence. “I bet if
‘I walked through that graveyard at night and somebody yelled, ‘Boo!’
  over tombstones trying to get out.”
. Hdgenstalsoa life~time resident of Rockbridge County, started believing in
ghosts aft V firstgghaiidexperierice. He remembers waking up one night as a
child and see V “lady in white sitting in the rocking chair in his room. He got
up for 3;‘ loser it and she disappeared. “There’s stuff out there in this world

I ’ "  I rcunderstand.”  ’ t,

 V final top fthe tour is the Lexington CarriageRide “Oﬂice, ” the stable
021. fndol  Vt. ‘_‘,Let’s be real quiet here for a second and see if we hear

   
  
   
 

seekingvengeance. Ghost cat? No,  r .V_ ‘sounds of cars passing by. Music blaring from Red Square.
drunk w&L students. at * . .. . . The: ‘fill? ¢fh<2rsesffeet- Nothing unusual. V I »  A. 3
While W&L students ma II s“supernatu— I .. bV.Hatcher,'who has worked at the stable for seven years, has heard

  
       
 
   
  
 

   
 
 

sf - .'

there is going to be a lot of interes
such a different type of entertainm  '
The group emerges from the not
the street. A couple of Chi‘Psis  V  _
“What’s goingon?” t ' it 
“It ’s a ghost walk, ” the tour. guide responds.
“Really?” ‘ -  -  ‘ s

“Come on, you might learn something. ‘I’ I‘ I I

The Chi Psis return to their seats on the porch. Better to drink than to think; '
The ghost tour has sparked curiosity throughout the town. “I think it would .I
be a really good idea,” said town resident Carrie Hall. “l’ve lived here for over ,
seventy years but I haven’t heard any ghost stories.” Some residents, however, v
feel that there conidift be a more appropriate location than the historic town of I

Lexington. “Yes, Ibelieve in spirits. I’ve seen one once,” said life-lon g resident
Matalie Brown. “Coming home from a ball game, I passed the [W&L].
President's house and I saw a man with a Iion’s head, down on all fours, trying
to get under the porch.”

  

can ’t be any other expiaination,” said Hatchet.

soniethin g;_~#[Vtlie; sound of a phantom blacksmith working atnight. And it’s not
ust;his imagination, he has evidence that the supernatural works in the stable.
Yeah,’wefve.got ghosts here,” Hatchet declares nonchalantly.‘ “Sometimes
we’3l run the upto the wall to feed them and at six or seven in the evening,

lsoniething will spook them. Pm surprised none of them have busted that

windowtthere.”  . V I , -i» I   _ — _

 it  ghosts have a sense of humor. Hatchet explai s that they love to
ay with the harnesses. During the niglitthe ghosts move around the harnesses
ii their-racks, so in the morning, they don’t fit the appropriate lioi-Vses, _“"I‘1-re;-e

Heading offta watch X-Files or ﬁnish the evening with.‘ a different kind of
spirits, the tour group disperses in front of Shear Timing, Sherry Cline's
business where she will be selling tickets for future tours. Whether the ghost
tour veterans now believe in ghosts or not, the stories are guaranteed to come
to mind when they walk the streets of Lexington alone in the dark. “The next
time you look out the corner of your eye and see something glistening, ” the tour
guide snaps his fingers, creating a flash of light, “remember everything that
glitters is not gold. ”

 

 

 

> PAGE 4

OPINION

Michael Hew|ett’s last ‘My View’

0
My Vrew
Michael Hewlett ‘96

Ring-tum Phi Staff Writer

‘ to the Co—op, tired and think

ing about all the work I had
to do in these last couple of weeks.
Then, just before I hit the first step, I
turned my head and noticed a table set
upcovcredwith bagswithblackclothes
stuffed in them. Iwent overforacloser
look. My cap and gown were there. It
seemed to stare at me, telling me,
“Guess what, graduation is around the
corner. Only two weeks left.”

Only two weeks left. The words
whirled around in my head. I must
have been walking through these past
four weeks in a state of disbelief. I
reminded myself occasionally but I
put the thought in the far reaches ofmy
mind. Even when Iwent to my cousin’s
graduation a few weeks ago, I had only
an inkling that I would listen to the
same speeches soon. I had not envi-
sioncd myself walking to get my di-
ploma. I had other things on my mind
like my classes and trying to get ajob.

Then, it hit me. This is it. I’m gradu-
ating. The words brought a mixture of
reliefand anxiety. Everybody asks me,
“So, Michael, what are your plans af-
ter graduation?” They always catch
you at the moment when you really
don’t want to think about that. You
want to continue to live in your little
fantasy world where graduation is far
off in the future.

And I could easily say that when I
was a freshmen. When I arrived on
campus, I could taste the freedom and
maybe even enjoy it as soon as my
uncle and mom left my room. After my

lass ended and I headed down

   

     
 

ﬁx‘, xmitrrurii/1/11;, 4’

   

OOCOOOIOOOOIOO

   
  
 

Q
‘Willakees

Lounge open 4:00p.m. to ?
Restaurant 11:00a.m. to 9:30p.m.

Route 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Near the Virginia Horse Center
Phone: 464-9499

mom hugged me and cried, after my
uncle shook my hand and let me know
he was there for me if I needed him,
after I saw the car pull away, Ijumped
up and down, savoring this wonderful
thing called college. I could go wher-
ever I wanted; Icould stay up all night;
and I didn’t have to ask anyone for
permission to do anything. Free at
last!

Now, four years later, I still can’t
believe that it’s almost over. Four years
and they pass by so fast. It seems so
long ago and so recent all at the same
time. I’m about to go into the real
world—and it’s not the one on MTV
where young people struggle so hard
in a nice plush apartment in San Fran-
cisco, New York or London. No, this
real world is the one with microwave
food, cheap apartments, rents, and bro-
ken pipes.

Besides that, we are defined as
Generation X, the directionless, the
sloppy slobs of senselessness, the Kurt-
Cobain-suicide-is-solution clones, the
lazy, the apathetic. We’re supposedly
the ones who have been told that things
were bad in the past but now they’re
looking up, that we can get the Ameri-
can dream. But we can also get shot,
get AIDS, get the shattered American
nightmare, get crushed by corporate
downsizing, and get hung by the nice
Social Security and S&L money-drain-
ing gifts we’ve inherited.

Sometimes, I get depressed at the
world that I will thrust myselfinto and
maybe one day rear my children in. I
look at a present and a future of drive-
by shootings and drive—by debates. I
turn on Geraldo and he’s still talking
about O.J. Simpson. I think about the
race problem in this country and won-
der if we will ever learn to live to-

Restaurant
and
Hobbies Lounge

”%m/m/izﬂ .%/e

Specializing in Unfinished
Furniture and Shades

19 South Randolph Street
463-2742

 

23 N. Main St.

 

 

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?

Now you can have two at the moor recognized and
accepted credit cards In the wor1d...Vtsa0 and Mastcrcatdtb
credit cards."tn your name.’ EVEN IF YOUARE NEW IN

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

visa: and Masrercudo the credit cards you
deserve and need Ior~— !D—BO0KS—DEPARTMENl'
Sl"0RF.S—TUIT|0,N—-EN'l'ERTAlNM BN1‘-
IZMEROEMZY CASH—T!CKI-71'8-RESTAURANTS-—
HQ‘l'ELS—MO'I'ELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS-
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

You need

goal Clothes for  Weather

W990

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

(703)463-5988

gether as brothers and sisters. I try and
decide who to vote for in the Presi-
dential race and come to this conclu-
sion: Perot is an idiot, Dole bores me,
and Clinton consistently confuses me.
And if I vote, will it change anything?
And will the Republicans and Demo-
crats stop tryingto win political points
and talk about the problems of this
country in some constructive way?

Then I look at my cap and gown,
still unopened. I imagine myseIfgrab-
bing my diploma and think of my late
grandmother with tears in her eyes
and a smile on her face. I think about
grabbing that diploma for her, for all
the slaves who were not allowed to
read, for all the mothers and fathers
who sacrificed their own education to
make sure that another generation had
achance, for all those who died so that
I could be free.

I recall this Langston Hughes
poem; “I’ve been scarred and bat-
tered/ my hopes the wind done scat-
tered/ Snow has friz me/ Sun has
baked me/ Seems like between ‘em
they done tried to make me stop laugh-
ing, stop loving, stop livingl But I
don’t care/ I’m still here!” I smile
because I am still here. Sowhen gradu-
ation comes I will have a grin on my
face. As I sit there, Iwill remember all
those nights spent writing papers and
reading books big and small. I will
cherish the conversations I’ve had
with people whether in goodwill or in
anger. I will hold close to my heart the
great times when I laughed and the
bad times when I screamed. Despite
all the obstacles, despite all the frus-
tration, despite everything, I made it
and I’m alive. And usually that’s rea-
son enough to be happy.

  TEACH . ENGLISI-I55 rrr        
Positions available monthly.‘ B.A. or BS. degree ragggﬁs 8,5005’
23,400/yr. Accomodationo & round‘-trtr:‘,a1i-taro provildoct. lsendyrosurrﬁji
copy of dlptoma and copy of passport-to:LBok;J,l corporation,’ choir ,8ang:ﬂ
81:39., 154-13 Samsurtgnorrg, Kang‘,NamjGu,_,$oou§,_Koroa§[t3s..o9o., '
‘rot: 011.82-2-ss5~.1oas(5a2,7)  Faxzot 1-82-2-552-4FAX(4329)  

y Freshmen, from page 2

be discontentment among the Class
of ‘99.” I believe I can offer an ex-
planation for that. Freshmen every-
where go through some period of dis-
illusionment.Whetherthey are home-
sick or disappointed that the school
has failed to live up to all of their
expectations, most of them find the
ultra-important transition to college
life somewhat difficult. But when ide-
als are displaced by reality, most of us
cope in ways other than byjoining the
quixotic crusade to make Lexington
look like Camelot. I’m not saying we
should never cease striving to im-
prove our system, but we must adopt
a realistic approach.
In conclusion, I want to state that
I believe this dialogue and all other
attempts to improve our school are
worthy endeavors. But I must vehe-
mently disagree with the notion that
there is continuous, widespread dis-
content among freshmen. After three
semesters most of us cherish the insti-
tution and its traditions. As our final
two weeks as freshmen draw to a
close, I think the motto ofthe Class of
1999 should echo Shakespeare, “Now
is the winter of our discontent made
glorious summer.”

Patrick A. McCormack
Class of 1999

(Elite mittirgt-ttttti Elﬁlllgiz

Be one
watt. the
i.?egev\cI.

 

 

Hardware, Paint,

Open:
Mon.-Sat. 8:30am-6pm
Sun. 1-5pm

and Related Items

E. Nelson Street
Lexington
4 63 -2 I 8 6

at aw/WW
and LUBE

COLLEGE SQUARE
(Next to Kroger)

$19.95 *
QUICK LUBE
INCLUDES:

Auto Transmission Check

Up to 5 quarts 10W/30
Valvoline Oil

Filter Chassis Lube

/a

"\’i”"
ﬂﬂ

*most cars

M.

PEOPLE WHO KNOW
USE VALVOLINE

No Appointment Necessary

HOURS:
Mon.- Frl. 8:30AM - 5:00PM
Sat. 8:30 AM- 2:00PM

UNITED STATES

CELLULAR

YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE HAITINGI

   
  
 
  
  

Ito turn dorms!
No credit checks!
lo security deposit!

SEND me coupon romw

Vacation '96

SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!
Student Travel Services is now
hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
Daytona and Panama City Beach.
Call 1-800-648-4849

National Park Jobs
Tour guide. instructor. lifeguard. hotel
staff. firefighter o government postions
available at National Parks.
Benefits v bonuses!

(206) 97l—362O ext. N5312l

I Employment
Earn up to $3000-
$6000+ per month. Room and board!
Transportation! Male or female. No
experience necessary.
For more information call:
(206) 971-3510 ext. AS3421

 

Tllre Ring-tum lplliui

PATRON OF THE
ARTS:
WE LIKE DIRT.

CRUISE JOBS

Students Needed!
Earn up to $2000+/mo. working for
CruiseShipsorLandTourcompanles‘+
World Travel. Seasonal and Full-Time
employment available. For Info call:

‘.-._.$Q$Z@QQCZﬂQ':r9‘CC'

(208) 971-3550 ext. C53421

YHOOD :

NAME

The Ring-tum Phi,

  
 

 

g ©tNTp'psuae Medeig Services. inc.
lg eserv .
4-7-7
IL!
I.” 2 C,“
A O §\$\
M g
u.r 6
I >
I- ‘”
-H
(D ,5
\\-» ‘
E 3 ~  ~-
te .“i‘<<*~ - 
 \ \‘\
P3‘!
0
 \‘§\\\i(i7‘K\\
 \\l\ _ ,\\ I \\,K_‘_§~\« \


MARATHON
ROUTE

  

5;,/er

   

W ©1995_Tribune Media Services, Inc.
9 Fl

All Rights Reserved.

 

“is that the only way you can win, Paul? is it? Making
annoying gurgling sounds while I’m trying to putt?"

MAY 24, 1 996

    

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday

Breakfast Buffet can" handle the

BIGGEST appetite.

The Buffet is served from 8:00a.m. until 1:30p.m.
We'll be waiting for you!
Berky's
Route 11 North - Lexington, VA

_______________________________ﬁ

Process mail
company!
opportunity!

Rush S.A.S.E.:
GMU, Suite 216

GOOD
WEEKLY
INCOME

for national

Free supplies,
postage! No selling!
Start immediately!

Genuine

1861 N. Federal Hwy.
Hollywood, Florida 33020

-jZZZ2:jZjjjjjjjJ

Bonuses!'

I"
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
L

VHC 1961 N. FEDE AL rnnr.
' OLL §LoRInA

rr
 rwanrvrsao/Mnsrrmcnnoe Credit

cxrdsapprbved Immediately. 100% nunnmrarsnr

533533 216

ADDRESS
CFIY
PHONE
SIGNATURE

 
 

STATE ..._ ZIP
S.S."

RITE: MastuCIu1 I: I registered lndtmlrir d Marc-rOr.rd lntzmuroml. Inc.
Vlsn Is a rt-gt.-srcmd rradcnnrtr :1 VISA USA. lnr: and V15-A lntrnattonal

M II. THIS ND RISK COUPON SODA?

 

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
?

WANTED:
Individuals,
Student Organizations
and Small Groups to
Promote 1996 Travel
Packages.

Earn Substantial MONEY
and FREE TRIPS.

Call INTER-CAMPUS
PROGRAMS
1-800-327-6013

 

Q
S
.

 

The Rinq-tum Phi,

MAY 24. 1996

-JOCK SHORTS

W&L WINS TWO OF THREE ODAC
COMM|SSIONER’S CUP AWARDS:

At the ODAC’S annual meeting last week, Washing-
ton and Lee was awarded two Commissioner’s Cup
awards. W&L received the combined men’s and
women’scup and the men’s sports cup. W&Lscored 54
points to top runner-up Hampden-Sydney by 10 points
in the men’s competition. W&L placed a close second
in the women’s contest, losing out to Roanoke College
by 2.5 points. But W&L took the overall competition
from Roanke by 13 points. W&L won its points by
capturing ODAC championships in men’s cross coun-
try, women’s swimming, men’s and women’s tennis,
and volleyball and having runner-up finishes in six
other sports.

FANTUZZI NAMED ODAC’S TOP MALE
SCHOLAH-ATHLETE:

Senior baseball standout Graig Fantuzzi was named

the 1996 winner of the “Doc” Jopson Award as the
ODAC’S top male scholar-athlete.

Fantuzzi played a key role in the Generals’ outstand-
ing season and recent ODAC tournament appearance.
Fantuzzi had a .378 batting average and 17 stolen bases.
He also carries a grade-point average in excess of 4.0
and will graduate as class Valedictorian.

FIVE STUDENTS SELECTED FOR ALL-
ODAC MEN’S LAX TEAM:

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team re-
cently had a league-high five players named to the all-
ODAC first team.

Junior attackman Ande Jenkins was the leading
scorer for the Generals this season, racking up 45 goals
and 19 assists. This will be his second year on the first
team.

Senior attack Russell Croft, senior midﬁelder Adam
Butterworth, senior defenseman Lee Counselman, and
junior defenseman Jay Johnson also recieved ﬁrst team
honors.

General ‘Admission concert held .

BY ANDREA EWING
PHI STAFF WRITER

ashington and Lee’s co-ed a cappella group,

General Admission, performed at the General

Headquarters on Wednesday May 15. The

concert was the last for seniors who started the group in
1992.

Senior Phaedra Cianciulli, co-founder of the group with

Gretchen Hall, stated, “We chose the GHQ because it was

‘ the site of our first concert in the Spring of 1993, and it

allows the audience to get more easily involved.”

The concert began with a version of “I Don’t Know”
adapted especially for the Washington and Lee commu-
nity. Other old favorites were heard as the group contin-
ued. “Jack and Diane” with soloist Erik Christ and
“Istanbul” by They Might Be Giants were received with
smiles and applause. General Admission added a new a
song to their repertoire with “Take on Me” sung by soloist

Denis Riva.

Cianciulli commented, “We sing a lot of 80’s music
because we have a good number of 80’s fans in the group.”

The music was interrupted several times to present skits
for the audience. Various members of the group performed
poetry readings and a commentary on the Speaking Tradi-
tion. Freshman member Charolette Graham commented,
“The group is relaxed and wonderful fun.”

Graham auditioned for General Admission after seeing
them at the Freshman Picnic. Even with the relaxed
atmosphere of the group they still perform traditional
favorites like “Dixie” and “A cappella.”

Cianciulli noted, “A cappella” is a contemporary piece,
but it has the traditional a cappella sound, and it appeals to
the fans of Doo-Wop.”

“The co-ed format of General Admission is a good
representation of the student population of Washington
and Lee,” remarks Cianciulli. Graham pointed out that the
group will be having auditions again in the fall, and she
encourages all interested parties to try out.

7
The Ring-tum Phi would
like to congratulate

J may/.%e5
‘6/ma 0//.996‘.

Good luck in all your
future endeavors.
You will be missed.

j mu - L

NEWS/SPORTS

PAGE 5 i

Two-sport superstar Schaeffer
completes triumphant final season

P Josephine, from page 6

of winning the unofficial title.

Healthy for the first time since her
freshman year, Schaeffer returned with
avengeance last fall,winningtheSouth
Regional for the third time and captur-
ing her third All-America honor with
a ninth-place showing at nationals.
She completed her cross country ca-
reer with 29 wins in her pocket before
wreaking havoc on the track this win-
ter and spring.

The always-modest Schaeffer
chooses not to dwell on her own ac-
complishments, as satisfying as they
may be. Instead, she is fiercely proud
of how well the teams she has run with
have done, such as the women’s track
team’s two ODAC titles and a second
place finish this year.

“I’ve seen the team grow and come
together and work hard,” she said. “I
hope the program can continue to

ow.”
As for Schaeffer, her next chal-
lenge will come off of the track. The
biology major hopes to become a
physical therapist and has applied to
physical therapy school. She will not
get notified of the decision until July.

Schaeffer is extremely apprecia-
tive of the attention she has received
during her career here.

“lt’s been a real joy for me to
represent this school in running and
all the support I’ve received,”
Schaeffer said. “lt’s much more than
I expected and it really means a lot to
me.”

So, Josephine Schaeffer has
sprinted off into the distance for the
last time. Washington and Lee may
never again see another one like her.

Photo courtesy of W&L Sports lnfonnation

Senior Josephine Schaeffer has competed in cross country
and track with equal success during her career. She earned
a trip to nationals with her strong spring track season.

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM

by Mike Peters

\\

You mseusiiue, IAOUHEARV
VILE LITFLEPOG! M m

QETOFFMWAWN

/ 5H00,,.
GOAWAQX.
7  I|

  6/5 

 
  
  
 
 

”¥’c§%?.°$v’»%v
éARv5N.//t
A mavens.

 

LOOKWH Y UR
3:’? vs M:’C§f|:i'70E%’
HE PIP?!-Ei>a~ '

Aw 95;’:/I-\Nrs.'

  

©1995 ummy In
Dlsl.

bylribune iiedua Services. Inc \

SHOE

 

I'LL BE OFF NEXT WEEK
50 MAYBE WE SHOULD
RUN SOME OF MY
OLD COLUMNS.

w aumuiiq ‘1S!(]
'au| iuiuiug 9551@

0U| SBDWOS eipa

\'.

some, Ml55 CARP,
ILLBE Riel-lT ovek,
Bur REMEMBER,

6.2-_ P065 we {M

HELLO:
WAL NO ONE
ACg\NTR0"u

 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   

’ /4, ROUND uprus ’

a USUAL REJECTS.

 

 

' <99: rum Media Services. in. All Rights Reserved

 

  
 
   
   

  

I'VE ALWAYS
SEEN IN FAVOR
OF SPAGHETT I.

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

W'I‘nAcx - Josephine Schaeffer completed the
10,000 meter run in eleventh place
with a time of 37.50 at the NCAA
Track and Field Championships

PAGE 6

Siiiiiﬁfs

BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS, Gour, TRACK AND FIELD

This Week:

No athletic events scheduled - spring seasons
completed

Have a great summer!

MAY 24, 1996

Schaeffer closes out her running career, at nationals”

.§

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

Dare we say it: the best ever?

One would never hear those
words coming out of Josephine
Schaeffer’s mouth, but not many
people would argue with the as-
sertion that she is the best fe-
male athlete to ever set foot on
this campus.

But the good times will end
this weekend as Schaeffer will
step off the track as a Washing-
ton and Lee General for the final
time after four years of demol-
ishing every long-distance track
record in the book.

In fact, Schaeffer cannot even
think of one accomplishment that
outshines the rest. Probably
because there are so many to
choose from.

“l’ve had so many wonderful

experiences,” she said.

Her departure will be a bitter
pill to swallow for everyone who
has seen this senior cross coun-
try and track extraordinaire burn
opposing runners since Fall
1992. Like she does in the 10,000
meters, her favorite race, it
seemed that Schaeffer would
never stop running. But as the
NCAA Outdoor Track and Field
Championships conclude Satur-
day at North Central (IL) Col-
lege, so will Schaeffer’s glori-
ous career.

Schaeffer ran in the 10,000
on Wednesday and ﬁnished elev-
enth in a time of 37.50. Yester-
day, she competed in the pre-
liminaries of the 5000. If she
crosses the ﬁnish line in the top
twelve, she gets a free ticket to
the ﬁnals on Saturday.

This is the first time that
Schaeffer has qualiﬁed for more

than one race at nationals. She
qualiﬁed for the 10,000 in both
1993 and 1995, but never in the
5000.

Schaeffer, who qualiﬁed for
nationals in the 10,000 with a
meet record time of 36:45.7 at
the W&L Invitational on March
16, likes her chances in the
10,000.

“I feel that’s my strongest
race,” she said.

No matter what happens at
nationals, Schaeffer had quite a
track season. After opening the
spring with her meet record in
the 10,000 at home, she shat-
tered her school record time in
the 3000 with a 10:12.2 at the
Battleground Relays on March
30, eclipsing her old record of
10:23.6 in 1993. She followed
that up with another victory in
the 3000 at the Royal Track Clas-
sic on April 20, and then led the
team to a second place ﬁnish at
the ODAC Championships a
week later with her wins in the
1500 and 3000. In the 1500, she
rallied in the ﬁnal 200 meters to
post a school and conference
record time of 4:45 .40, breaking
her old mark of 4:54.7, also set
in 1993.

As if that was not enough for
one year, Schaeffer was estab-
lishing indoor track records dur-
ing the winter. She prevailed in
both the one and two mile runs
in conference record times at the
ODAC Indoor Championships
on February 24 and then became
the first W&L female to com-
pete in the NCAA Indoor Cham-
pionships on March 8-9, ﬁnish-
ing seventh in the 5000 in
17:31 .31 andjust missing an All-
America award.

Schaeffer attributes heramaz-
ing success in 1996 to one thing.

‘‘I think it’s been because I’ve
been running without injuries,”
she said.

As much natural talent as
Schaeffer has, she has never had

The Schaeffer
File

TRACK:

1993 - Second at NCAA Championships in

10,000

All-America honors
W&L Freshman Athlete of the Year

1995- Participated in NCAA Championships

in 10,000

1996 - Seventh at NCAA Indoors in 5000
(First W&L female to compete at
NCAA Indoors)
Eleventh at NCAA Outdoor
Championships in 10,000

the luxury of putting it in cruise
control. Although it seems like
she is a running machine, the
injuries she has suffered during
her career caused her to con-
tinue improving until she
reached a whole new level.

Schaeffer helped bring the
W&L track and cross country
programs to a whole new level.
She entered W&L in the fall of
1992 as a highly-touted fresh-
man after winning the Tennes-
see state championship in the
3200 meter run and ﬁnishing
second in the 1600-meter run
and cross country as a student at
Hutchison High School in Mem-
phis.

But nobody was prepared for
what Schaeffer accomplished
during her freshman year.
She won the Freshman Athlete
of the Year award as she tore up

{:2 '

cross~country records left and
right in the fall, rewriting the
entire W&L record book with
her name on it. She established
a W&L course record time of
18:14, won the regional cham-
pionship and ﬁnished twelfth at
nationals, earning her a ﬁrst-
team All-America award. Not a
bad start while her fellow class-
mates were still trying to ﬁnd
their way around campus.

Things got even better in the
spring of 1993 when Schaeffer
set records in the 1500, 3000 and
10,000. Her 36:31.82 time in
the 10,000 still stands.

Schaeffer rode her success in
the 10,000 into nationals, where
she captured an All-America
award with a stunning second
place ﬁnish in the nation in the
10,000.

It seemed almost impossible

to improve after that kind of a
year, but Schaeffer returned to
cross country in the fall of her
sophomore year and just kept
getting better. She took all nine
meets during the regular sea-
son, shattered the school record
at regionals in 16:46 and cruised
to an eighth-place ﬁnish at na-
tionals, giving her yet another
All-America trophy. By the
end of the season, Schaeffer had
snared 16 of her 19 career races
with two of the losses coming in
the NCAAS, and had run the
twelve fastest times in school
history. Meanwhile, she led the
cross country team to its third
ODAC title in four years. Was
there any stopping the Schaeffer
running machine?

Unfortunately yes. The drain
of continually switching offbe-
tween cross country and track
was beginning to catch up with
her. According to Schaeffer, it
is tough to constantly refocus
on the different sports, not just
the physical grind of running
long-distance races. ,

“I don’t think people realize
how hard it is mentally,” she
said. “I’m very mentally fo-
cused and it takes a lot out of me
to prepare for each race.”

But the grind was draining
her legs too, and that dreaded I-
word ﬁrst surfaced before track
season in 1994. Schaeffer came
down with a knee injury which
was severe enough to force her
to miss the entire track season.

After spending the summer
rehabilitating, Schaeffer shot
out of the gate in cross country
in Fall 1994 by steamrolling the
opposition in her ﬁrst ﬁve meets.
Then disaster struck again.
Schaeffer got a stress fracture in
her left pelvis area and had to
take a month off. She still came
back to ﬁnish fourth at regionals
and qualify for her third straight
NCAA championships.

But at the NCAAS, she re-

aggravated her pelvis injury dur-
ing the race. Despite running in
severe pain and several people
begging her to quit, Schaeffer
could not bring herself to stop
after coming that far. She re-
fused to quit until she crossed
the ﬁnish line. Although she
finished last, the race may have
been more indicative of
Schaeffer’s determination and
competitiveness than any of the
races she won.

Still, by this time, the ques-
tions were popping up. Would
she ever be able to duplicate her
freshman year triumphs?

The injuries planted some
seeds of doubt in Schaeffer’s
mind, too.

“I didn’t really know what to
expect,” she said. “College was
the ﬁrst time l’ve had to go
through that. You certainly have
doubts.”

It would have been easy for
Schaeffer to just walk away from
athletics then and concentrate
more on academics and the other
aspects of college life during her
ﬁnal two years. But Josephine
could not do it. Her body may
have been begging for mercy
but her mind would not let her
quit. Instead, she focused more
and more on improving herself
so she could relive the memo-
ries from earlier times.

“I wanted to continue to work
hard,” she said. And, “it’s got-
ten me into better shape than
before.”

Schaefferstartedworking her
way back into top—ﬁight shape.
She had a modest track season
by her standards in Spring 1995,
although she was crowned
ODAC champion in the 3000
meters and again went to the
nationals in the 10,000. She was
also an integral part in the
women’s first ofﬁcial outdoor
ODAC championship after years

by Josephine, page 5

WLU R/Ring-tum Phi Sports Awards

This is the second of two in-
stallments of the ﬁrst annual
WLUR/Ring-tum Phi Sports
Awards. We will honor athletes
who have demonstrated great
achievements in their sports and
have earned the award of most
valuable player as voted on by
the WLUR and Ring-tum Phi
Sports Staffs. This week we will
award this honor to one member
of each of the men’s sports.

 

year.

Sgggeu Sam Chase led the team in
scoring this season with 18 goals and one
assist to total 37 total points and 2.64 points
per game. Chase, only a freshman, helped
the Generalscompete among strong ODAC
competition and also tallied ﬁve important
game-winning goals, including the only
goal in a 1-0 victory at Shenandoah. Chase
heads up a solid Generals’ soccer team
which will return several key players next

liaskethall;

A unanimous selection,
Cam Dyer led W&L in scoring with a 22.2
point average and shot 55.8% from the
field. Dyer also led the team with 7.8
rebounds per game and in blocks with 23.
The center dished out 44 assists and was
named to the ﬁrst team all-ODAC in his
senior campaign. Dyer led W&L in scoring
in 21 of 24 games and achieved career highs
with 41 points against Randolph-Macon
and 3 blocks against Hampden-Sydney.

 

 

ﬂﬂ  A unanimous selection,
Peter Sorensen tallied 74 total points in-

cluding 37 goals with fourtwo-point goals
and 33 assists. Sorensen demonstrated
excellent accuracy shooting at a 40.2 per-
cent clip and also was a force on defense,
compiling 49 steals. Sorensen’s leader-
ship and tenacious play helped lead the
Generals to ten victories this year, includ-
ing a 16-15 victory over the Naval Acad-
emy.

takedowns.

Lagmssgg Ande Jenkins led the team in
total points with 64 and goals scored with
45 as well as placing second in assists with
19. Jenkins was the heart and soul of the
Generals’ offensive attack and helped the
Generals achieve a 10-5 overall record, a
5-1 ODAC record, and a victory over VMI
in the Lee-Jackson Classic. Jenkins scored
eight goals in one game against
Shenandoah and netted six goals against
Guilford.

 

Imgk; Jason Callen also fared well on
the track in the distance races, which have
become his specialty. This was the case
with his second place ﬁnish in the 5000 at
the ODAC Championships in a time of
16:03.46. In doing so, he was a major
contributor in the Generals’ third place
showing. Callen, only a sophomore, will
return for two more years and continue to
propel the Generals to continued strong
ﬁnishes in the ODAC and other meets.

yymsﬂing; A unanimous selection, se-
nior Colin Looney compiled the best over-
all record on the Generals’ wrestling team.
Looney ﬁnished the 1995-96 season with
a 10-9 record for the Generals and helped
Washington and Lee to a 33-15 victory
over Johns Hopkins. Looney, wrestling in
the 190-pound class, did not suffer a pin all
year. He converted one of his own as well
as leading the team in escapes and

   

]'_ennj§_; Another unanimous selection,

' A unanimous selection,
Jason Callen took honors in cross coun-
try with outstanding performances in the
distance events. Callen was Washington
and Lee’s Outstanding Freshman Athlete
last year and was selected as the ODAC
Runner of the Year this year. He was also
named to the all-region team in the fall
after his 26:32 time at the ODAC Cham-
pionships helped lead the Generals to the
ODAC title.

Golf; Junior Tommy Dudley ﬁnished
this season with several strong perfor-
mances, including a score of 153 over 36
holes at the ODAC Championships, and
helped the Generals’ golf team complete
another strong season. Dudley continued
his consistent play and led the team with a
77.9 scoring average. His leadership and
performance on the course provided a
good example for the future of Generals’
golf.

 

Chris MacNaughton held a 7-13 overall
record in Flight 1 singles play and an 11-6
overall record in Flight 1 doubles play.
MacNaughton has been a key contributor
to the Generals’ efforts for four years and
has maintained a high standard of play
each season. Overall, in singles and doubles
play, MacNaughton had a 7-3 tournament
record and helped the Generals to the
NCAA regionals this year.

Slimming; Nathan Hottle continued
his strong swimming efforts to earn a place
at the NCAA Nationals this year and help
the Generals win some key meets this year.
Hottle captured three All-American awards
at nationals with a seventh place in the 200
IM, eighth in the 200 breast and eleventh in
the 100 breast. Hottle consistently placed
among the top swimmers at every meet and
earned a reputation as a formidable oppo-
nent and an exceptional teammate.

 

Eogthau; Brooks Fischer led the Gen-
erals’ offensive attack this year and started
all nine games for W&L this season.
Fischer completed 145 of 245 passes for a
59.2% completion percentage and achieved
a quaterback rating of 115.9. Fischer
completed ten passes for touchdowns, in-
cluding a valiant offensive surge to over-
come a 21-point deficit against Randolph-
Macon. Fischer threw for 1498 yards and
completed a long pass of 60 yards.

 

 ; A unanimous selection, Graig
Fantuzzi broke the school record for runs
batted in and stolen bases this year and led
the Generals to their best ﬁnish in over half
a century at 16-11. Fantuzzi was named an
all-ODAC selection this season and also
holds the school record for batting aver-
age, a .482 in 1994. The Generals’ co-
captain performed a flawless left ﬁeld and
possessed one of the strongest throwing
arms in the ODAC.

l

 

 

