4 7

v 
VOLUME 99’, NUMBER 4

he ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlii

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

wienim. .» -.
l.EXﬁVGlU!\, vr-u .n—‘;-_

MAY 2 3 1997

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No 7
Lexington. VA

MAY 19, 1997

H

INSIDE

FEATURES

.— &a.
Photo by Guy lolyncux

A few weeks ago, a guest
eaker told W&L students that
3 inking destroys brain cells.

“Fhis week, humor columnist
I cManemin says it probably
esn’t matter. Deep Blue’s

ctory over Kasparov com-
eilices the dominance of ma-
11116 over humanity.

sEE PAGE 3

OPINION

;lell—O, the General Lee and
e view from the Liberty Hall
ins all make W&L a memo-
ble experience. Betsy de-

’bes why coming here was
Te’ of the best things she has

er done.

‘ How will a liberal point of
elw affect W&L? Laura
napp proposes to turn her at-
ntion from national politics to
mpus issues.
'5!
The Fund for Public Interest
fers an opportunity to get in-
lved in the democratic pro-
qs and to make bucket loads
' money.

sEE PAGE 5

SPORTS

Photo by Hollister Hovey

*- Learn how to defend yourself

J, PE 120 and The Big Fan has

J hing but raves for PE soft-
11.

A sEE PAGE 6

 hangin’ out

the creek.

Photo by Hollister Hovey/Photo Editor

Some attendees of this year’s Buffalo Creek Music Festival frolic with their dogs in

VMI cadet dies of heart attack

and was actively involved with St. Patrick’s Catholic
Church. VMI held a memorial service for him 5 p.m.
Thursday in Jackson Memorial Hall.

While heart attacks in young people are uncommon,
they are not impossible. In the fall of 1995, Olympic
champion ice skater Sergei Grinkov, 28, suffered a heart
attack while rehearsing a routine.

Often, when someone young dies ofa heart attack,
the problem can be traced to a genetic disorder or an
independent disease that affects the heart. An un-
healthy diet high in cholesterol and a relatively seden-
tary lifestyle can also aggravate the risk ofa heart at-

BY SARAH MELDRUM
PHI STAFF WRITER

Lexington has lost another college freshman.

Early in the morning, Saturday, May 1 1, a Virginia
Military Institute freshman died in his sleep ofa heart
attack caused by coronary blockage around 5 a.m.
Nathan John Kowrach, 19, was visiting the home of
“Brother Rat” Edwin L. Clarke at Fort McNair in Wash-
ington, D.C. The students were between exams and
the time they had to be back for the New Market Day
activities and graduation.

After staying up Saturday night playing board
games, the cadets slept late the next morning. Although
Clarke and another student, Ryan Mahoney, woke up
between 11:30 a.m. and noon, they did not go in to
wake Kowrach until 1 p.m., at which point they dis-
covered he was dead.

“Only extensive testing could have discovered the prob-
lem before Kowrach had the heart attack,” Director of Pub-
lic Relations Colonel Michael Strickler said.

Kowrach, a history major, was from Benton Harbor,
Michigan. He was a member of Hotel Company at VMI

tack at an early age.

The American Heart Association has warned of
several likely signs that one is suffering from a heart
attack. The signs include uncomfortable pressure;
fullness; squeezing; pain in the center of the chest
lasting longer than a few minutes; pain spreading
to the shoulders, neck, or arms and chest discom-
fort combined with lightheadedness, fainting, nau-
sea or shortness of breath. People can also experi-
ence these symptoms after a strenuous workout,
though, and can miss the warnings.

T Photo by Gu Molyux/Photogrpher

To serve or not
to serve at W&L

BY DAN ODENWALD P115 from which I0

PH] STAFF WRITER choose. From Alpha
Phi Omega to Big

Brother/Big Sister, stu-
dents can spend as much
or as little time as they
can afford to help out.
“Organizations
like Habitat for Hu-
manity and fraternity/
sorority philanthro-

At a recent summit in
Philadelphia, President
Clinton and Colin Powell
praised volunteerism.

But a recent editorial in
The Washington Post
questioned their “inspiring
words about volunteer-
ing.” Students at Wash- pies have increased the
ington and Lee and other level of volunteerism
universities take both sides on campus,” the
ofthe issue. president of APO

Campus advocates of said. “But we could
volunteerism remind stu- definitely do more.”
dents that there’s a buffet

of organizations on cam— SEE SERVE PAGE 2

lutzax

pews
eatures
I pinion
-pods

xv

 eneral Notes
I’ eviews
reenland

he Big Fan

One killed, 20 injured

in balcony accident

CHARLOTTESVILLE -~ One person was
killed and 20 others were injured when the balcony
of a faculty residence collapsed yesterday.

The incident occurred 15 minutes before the
University of Virginia commencement was
scheduled to begin at 10 a.m. on The Lawn.

Those on the balcony fell 20 feet, and most
of the injured were on a walkway below the
balcony, a spokeswoman said.

«Matt Craig, Phi Stqﬁ" Writer

I 

PI.EAsE

vlsljir OUR’

WEBSITE AT

Cadets steal
alumni flags

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI EDITORIAL EDITOR

Thanks to a recent act
of vandalism by three
Virginia Military Insti-
tute cadets, the Washing-
ton and Lee campus has
recently become a little
bit cleaner. .

The cadets were caught
taking some ofW&L’s blue
and white alumni flags
around midnight April 30. Ca-
dets have customarily taken the
ﬂags every year since the deco-
rations were first introduced
five years ago.

“I personally ii
observed them take
flags from our
poles,” W&L Di-
rector of Security
Michael Young
said. “I called for
assistance and we
ran them down.”

On May 12,
three VMI seniors
began to perform
community service here as part
of their punishment under the
supervision of W&L Security
and Traffic Control Officer
Thomas “Baner” Bane.

“They spent part of one
day painting curbs around the
Woods Creek apartments and
the law school and cleaned
the Woods Creek apartments
one day,” Young said.

While some consider
the practice to be a serious
act of vandalism, Others
dismiss it as little more
than a prank. An anony-
mous VMI cadet described
the Inost recent theft as a
“practical joke."

Ipersonally
observed
them take
ﬂags from
our poles.

Michael Young,
Director of Security

“They were going to
return them. There was
nothing malicious about
it.”

Whether a destruc-
tive crime or a harmless
joke, the administration
ofVM1 and the security
staff of W&L have both
responded strongly to
the practice.

VMI found the actions
of the three cadets to be
serious enough to merit
a number one penalty,
the institution‘s most se-
rious punishment short
of suspension or expul-
sion. VMIpun-
ished the three
cadets by
awarding them
a 30 hour pen-
alty tour, 30
hours of commu-
nity service and
confinement to
their barracks
until graduation,

,’ Young said.

“I guess it’s kind oflike
being in jail,” Young said.

Young has re-
sponded to the most ‘re-
cent theft by taking
steps to ensure that no
alumni ﬂags will be sto-
len in the future. He re-
turned the cadets to
VMI with instructions
to warn their fellow
classmates that they
will be arrested if they
attempt to take any-
thing from the W&L
campus in the future.

“if we catch them
again,“ Young said. “well
put them injail.“

IFC considers
risk management

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI NEWS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee rumor
mill is at it again.

Ever since the lnterfraternity
Council met last Monday with fra-
ternity house presidents in a closed
forum meeting, rumors about exten-
sive curbing ofthe W&L drinking
scene have been ripping through
campus. But nothing like that is
going to happen.

The IFC and the fraternity presi-
dent did meet last week to discuss new
ways to address alcohol concerns.
Changes will be made, but nothing has
been decided yet.

“Students will have to adapt to a
new policy,” IFC member Colin
Connolly said. “But it won’t be
anything that drastic that will com-
pletely alter the W&L social scene.
In no way is IFC or the school go-
ing to outlaw drinking.”

Fraternity presidents were given a
week to discuss risk management with
their houses after last Monday’s meet-
ing. They will meet with the IFC and
Pi Kappa Phi National President Mark
Timmes today. Timmes is also a law-
yer who specializes in fraternal liabil-
ity and risk.

“After this meeting. some defini-
tive policy might be decided on,”1FC
President Jason Callen said. “But it
might not be until next fall.”

The policy change relies on the
decisions ofthe fraternity presidents,
Callen said. In the end, they will have
the ﬁnal vote on the issue.

“It's always good for the IFC to
review policy every now and then and
review the present policy,” Callen
said. “We’re looking to address two
questions. ‘Does it protect fratemi-
ties liability wise and does it protect
the students who go to the parties?’”

Something does need to be

PLEASE SEE IFC PAGE 2

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI NEWS EDITOR

The rain poured down as al-
most 500 people filed into Lee
Chapel last week for Jack
Bowden’s memorial service last
Wednesday. Bowden’s parents
were in attendance, along with
their 27-year-old daughter Jenni-
fer and her husband.

The haunting sounds of the
University Chamber Singers per-
forming “Lay A Garland” filled
Lee Chapel with a sense of peace
and closure to this tragedy.

“I think that the service ful-
filled the need for individuals to
express sorrow for this tragedy,”
Dean of Students David
Howison said.

Readings from the Old and
New Testament were given by
Beta Theta Pi President Tom
Fallace and Catholic Campus
Minister William “Burr” Datz
’75. Freshman Daniel Hayes,
one of Bowden’s best friends
and pledge brothers, delivered a
speech that attempted to capture
Bowden’s youth and exuber-
ance. Hayes stressed the impor-
tance of fraternal bonds in his
friendship with Bowden.

Hayes described the bond as one
that was closer than no other. “We
were fraternity blood brothers,”

W

Chapel last Wednesday.

Students, faculty gather for memorial service

W&L says good-bye

A memorial service for Jack Bowden was held in Lee

Hayes said. “Jack shined during
pledgeship.”

Hayes cited that some of his
fondest memories of Bowden in-
cluding smoking cigars in the fresh-
man quad, watching girls in the
Dining Hall and the way Jack would
dance in his distinctive way at ev-
ery fraternity party on campus.

“We were a bunch of guys who
liked to have a good time,” Hayes
said. “At the beginning of the year,
Jack was on top of the world, and
the rest of us were there with him.”

Bowden was planning on major-
ing in Spanish and was going to try
out for the tennis team in the fall,
Hayes said later in an interview.

Dr. and Mrs. Bowden have
shown an extraordinary support for
Washington and Lee, Howison
said. “I think that is what had sus-
tained them,” Howison said.

The Bowdens are setting up
a memorial fund in their son’s
memory. It has not yet been
determined what the money
will be used for. They will
return in the fall to plant a tree
on campus for Jack.

Bowden died Saturday May
3, after falling out ofhis second
floor Gilliam Dormitory win-
dow around 9:38 p.m. Friday
May 2. The 19-year-old was a
member of Beta Theta Pi frater-
nity and was from Darien, Conn.

Photo by llollistcrilloycy/Photo Editor

HrrP://www.wLu.EDu/~PHI/

PAGE 2

 

FRENCH STUDENTS TAKE OVER
LENFEST

Students in Professor Radulescu’s advanced French theater course
present “Le Roi se Meurt” (“Exit the King”) and “En Attendant Godot”
(“Waiting for Godot”) on Wednesday, May 28, Thursday, May 29, and
Friday, May 30. This original perfomance will be an integration ofthe
plays on the same stage as part of the same show, adding an additional
layer of discourse to the production. “Theater lovers will ﬁnd some-
thing for all tastes...who knows, maybe they will pick up some French
along the way,” Professor Radulescu said. The two plays have been
translated into many languages and performed on stages throughout the
world. They illustrate the human condition and man’s basic relation-
ship with his fellow mortals. All shows begin at 8 p.m. in the Johnson
Theater of the Lenfest Center. Admission is free, and the public is in-
vited to attend.

ALUMS PRESENT BENEFIT CONCERT

Robert Vienneau ’87, ’90L, a pianist popular with Lexington audi-
ences, will present a concert on Wednesday, May 21, at 8:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel. Vienneau’s perfonnance includes Debussy’s Claire de Lune,
Shuman’s Arabesque and Scenes from Childhood and Lizst’s Mephisto
Waltz. Rob Mish ’76 and Nick Leitch ’84, ’87L, will also perform
selections from the musical theatre as well as works by Bach, Handel,
Vaughan Williams and Schubert. The concerts beneﬁts the Todd D.
Jones Memorial Scholarship. The concert begins at 8:30 and is open to
the public. Donations of $5 or more will be accepted at the door.

FRENCH FILM FESTIVAL

The W&L Film Society and the Department of Romance Lan-
guages will present “Cafe au Lait” and “Ma Saison Preferee” as the next
selections in their ongoing French Film Festival on Tuesday, May 20
and Thursday, May 22. Screenings begin at 7:30 in the Troubadour.
Cafe au Lait is a high-speed, high-spirited comedy about race and ro-
mance in the Parisian melting pot.

“Ma Saison Preferee” is a powerfully unsettling ﬁlm which gives us
characters full of surprising reverberations and behavior that can’t be
psychologically ﬁxed or neatly resolved. Both ﬁlms are in French with
English subtitles. The public is invited to attend and admission is free
of charge.

HONORS THESIS PRESENTATIONS

E. Lucinda Barnett and Kathy Lu will present their senior honors
theses on Thursday, May 22, at 3 p.m. in Reid Hall, room 108. Bamett’s
thesis is titled “White Columns and Red Bricks: 250 Years at Washing-
ton and Lee University.” Lu’s thesis is titled “Grace, Gumption and
Superwoman: How the Press Covered Jackie, Lady Bird and Hillary.”
The public is invited and refreshments will follow the presentations.

A BARREL OF LAUGHS

The General’s Monkey, W&L’s only improv group, will perform on
Tuesday, May 20, at 3:30 p.m. and Wednesday, May 21, at 6 p.m. in
duPont Auditorium. The General’s Monkey is famous for involving the au-
dience in their antics.

‘INTO THE WOODS’ OPENS FRIDAY

Tickets are selling quickly for “Into the Woods.” Performances are
May 23, 24 and 25 at 8 p.m. and May 25 at 2 p.m. The musical is a
collaboration of the music and theater departments.

SPECIAL GUEST STAR ON RADIO SHOW

Glenn Miller will be the special guest star on Alex Christensen and
Cathy Resmer’s gay and lesbian talk show on WLUR tonight. Miller
will talk about G&L from his conservative viewpoint. Resmer says that
the show will not be confrontational. Resmer’s and Christensen’s show
is called “Keep it to yourself’ and airs Mondays from 10 p.m. to mid-
night. Miller’s interview will air between 10:30 and 11:30 p.m.

— Compiled by Peggy Stuntz

NEWS

 
 

MAY 19, 1997 .

Connolly, along with IFC member Sacha

 from page I

done about alcohol risk management,
"There is out—of-control
drinking at some times on this campus.“
The focus on risk management was not entirely
sparked by the recent alcohol-related death of
freshman Jack Bowden and last year’s death of
senior David Thompson in a drunk driving acci-
dent. “We have had two accidents in the past two
years," Connolly said. “But this has been some-
thing that we have been working on for a while.”

Connolly said.

 from page 1

Schweninger advises students to
call APO members to ﬁnd out about
service opportunities, reminding
them that the time commitment is
small.

“A lot of service happens within
two hours on a Saturday afternoon.
That’s not a big time investment, but
it has a huge impact,” she said.

Senior Jay Ingram of Oceanport,
N.J., agrees. A basketball coach for
the Rockbridge Area Recreational Or-
ganization. he devotes about three
hours per week working with the
community’s youth. After graduat-
ing in June, he hopes to continue help-
ing those in need.

Despite the altruistic tendencies of
some W&L students, many young
people balk at the idea ofgiving freely
of one’s time to help others.

Some argue they just don’t have
enough time. One anonymous senior
said that between schoolwork, extra-
curricular activites and a part-time
job, he can’t ﬁnd the time to volun-
teer.

“W&L is a tough school. Ifl
didn’t spend every Sunday through
Thursday night in the library, maybe
I would volunteer somewhere,” he
said.

While some students lack the time,
others reject volunteerism on prin-
ciple. The Coalition of Students
against Servitude, proponents ofAyn
Rand’s philosophy of objectivism,
which puts self-interest ﬁrst, picketed

Opening this weekend:

‘Into the Woods’

Websites of the Week “

Bv MATTHEW CRAIG
Pm STAFF WRITISR

Montas and former IFC President Anthony
Mazzarelli met with Timmes over the sum-
mer to discuss possibilities.

“A lot ofstuffgoes on at this school that is
against fraternal and school law," Connolly i
said. “We are going to have to address some We all have some memory ofbeing forced to per-
ofthese things." form a science experiment in elementary or middle

The IFC is researching other schools and school. Experiments ranged from the classic volcano I I
their policies on risk management, “We’re project to the invisible man. This week’s selections f
still learning about what works and what ofsites is dedicated to these projects. These webpages,‘
doesn’t,” however, are accounts of science experiments gone
awry. Perhaps the theme for this week should be mad
science projects.

the president’s summit.

Nicholas Provenzo, a senior at Student m__m___.1T-W-I-N-K-I-E-5 P|‘0'€€t I
George washington University, Said VOIIIHITCCI‘ www.owlnet.rice.edu/~gouge/twinkies.html
in an interview with the Washington Programs '
post, “wetre easy to marglnallze as This page recounts experiments performed upon
5e1f.lndll|gelltbastal-dgtbllttl-lat’s not everybody’s favorite snack cake by two engineering).
what we’re really about]: Alpha Phi students at Rice University. The tests performed in-
Objectlvlstg claim that putting om- Omega clude a radiation test (microwaving a twinkle), gravi-
ers’ interests‘ above your own is in- tational response test (throwing a twinkle out of a
herently destructive lfeyeryone put 462-4404 seventh story window) and a rapid oxidation test
his own interests ﬁrst, then we would (Call 3“)/0”‘? 53)’ “PYT0ma“l3”?)- This Site Pr°VIde5V
create a society of contributers and laughs intennittently interrupted by questions about
achievers, thus rendering community Habitat for the “scientists” sanity. It also provides some inter-
service a moot point. Humanity esting facts. For instance, a twinkie is 68% air. In _
The coalition argrues that it’s fine the words of one the experimenters, “Twinkies sure‘
to do community service as long as  taste gOOd fOI' S0lTlC[l1lI'lg that IS  air.”
you do it for yourself. Doing it to
please others, in their opinion, is _M Bull" SlH'ViVaI Test
wrong Live Drive www. pcola. gulf net/~irving/bunnies/index. him]

They especially loathe some 7

school systems who are trying to 462-4055 This site has many similarities to the
make community service mandatory/_ T.W.l.N.K.l.E.S. Project. The test subjects this time,
For example, in order to graduate however, are marshmallow bunnies. These particu-
from a public high school in Mary- Outing lar quacks have decided to see how marshmallow
land, students are required to perform Club bunnies respond to lasers, and their gravitational re-
a certian number of hours of comrnu- sponse test involves strapping a bunny to the bottom
nity service. 462-4066 of a brick and then dropping it. Humorous accounts
“once it’s required, it’s no longer are also provided for the control subjects (bunnies
volunteerism," Gwu freshman philip that weren’t experimented on, for you non-sciences.
Klein told the post. S.A.R.A.H. types out there). An example of such an account is
ln the end, oblectivists claim that that the control rabbits developed an extreme fear of
the president’s call to arms for more 462-8596 heights after the gravitational response test.
volunteerism is dangerous because it . t ,
might ultimately have a corrosive ef- Antics and Mayhem Page T if
feet on the citizenry Big www.be.com/~dbg/antics/index.html
Nevertheless, supporters of com- Brother/BIS
munity service stand their groud_ Re- Sister After visiting this site, I now realize that I should
gardless of how you feel about com- have been a computer science major. This page details
munity service, this won’t be the last 462-4271 various experiments (ways to avoid work) by members

of the Advanced Graphics Division at Silicon Graph-
ics, Inc. These diversions include launching small and _
not-so-small objects from a slingshot made out of ﬁve ~
feet of surgical tubing and burning holes in various; ‘
objects with a 3’x2.5’ Fresnel lens. I hope that this
place is hiring when I graduate next year.

cuppuacphllor .

Ladies ’ Shoes, Clothing

time you hear about it.

Left: The Wolf (Jon Bartlett ’97)
greets Little Red Riding Hood
(Brittany Ahlstrom ’00).

Below: Cinderella leaves Prince
Charming (Aaron Brotherton ’98) a
tantalizing clue.

and Accessories

(540) 463-5988 r

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, Va 24450

 

GREAT Suivnvt ER
COUNSELOR POSITIONS

Residential summer camps seek staff in all team

sports: Baseball, Basketball, Tennis, Soccer,
Inline Hockey, Golf, Swimming, Sailing,
and RN’s etc.

Located in the Mountains of Massachusetts
just 2 ‘/2 hours from NYC/Boston.

COMPETITIVE SALARIES +
ROOM AND BOARD
INTERNSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE

Call Camp Greylock for Boys (800)842-5214
or Camp Romaca for Girls (888)2—Romaca

This Week's Weather:

Tuesday

Wednesday Thursday

Fﬁday

Concert
Listings!

The Ring-tum Phi  *

Online a in l .

htt:// .I.d/~ h'/ 3 . V‘
p WWWWUG U P I ’ 2 $

Over 1,200 accesses in two weeks!

  

Saturday

Sunday

Lexington Carriage Company 5
Historic Tours of Lexington I
Great for All Special Occasions

 

Tours start across from the
Lexington Visitor ’s Center,

g .

High: 73°
Low: 59°

High: 65°
Low: 52°

High: 69°
Low: 48°

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

High: 74°
Low: 49°

High: 77°
Low: 52°

High: 75°
Low: 54°

and are available seven
days a week
(540)463-5647

  

\

MAY 19, 1997

PAGE 3

//Id//I9 ‘I/l7LI/‘ilk?/'15’/II c_1/ber5,0dcI9...

‘Create gour own l|J|JJl|J homepage

Ready to make your home in
«Cyberspace? The University
Computing WebDesk now of-
fers a pre—fab to help students
and faculty start construction on
their WWW homepages.

On the WebDesk’s page, http:/
/www. wlu. e_a'u/~webdesk/
form.htm1, there is a form that al-
lows users to input data and gen-
erate a simple web page contain-

ing their name, a brief section
about themselves
and a list of links.

“It’s an excel-

Doug and

Robin

luiilll“

’s

lent way to create a
basic homepage
structure, and from
there I would en-
courage students to
learn a little HTML
so they can add to
their pages and
make them unique

Price Range: $4-$100.95

The_Pink Cadillac Diner

Take I-81 to Exit 213 (Greenville)

Pepper Grinder: 0; Powder Room: 2;

Service: 4; Food Quality: 3.5; Food Presentation: 2.5

and personal,” WebDesk employee
Robin Seaton said.

Created last winter by UC
employees Doug Brown and Cliff
Woolley, the WebDesk is run by
students interested in webpage
design and development. While
the HelpDesk assists the univer-
sity community with hardware
and software problems, the
WebDesk focuses on assisting
faculty and staff with webpage
development. The WebDesk cre-
ates and maintains homepages for
academic departments, adminis-
trative ofﬁces and other non-stu-
dent-run entities on campus such
as Shenandoah.

“ ©@©D F©©®, MNUQUE DE©© FUELS WINK GADMAG

Up north in the land of large commercial
“" hicken houses lives a giant, The Pink Cadillac

tive.‘ Thejukebox plays classic tunes to give the
place an authentic atmosphere.

Diner. Located off I-81 on the way to Staunton,
the Pink Cadillac offers classic American food
and a charming l950’s diner atmosphere.

We arrived just before
tainshower on a Tuesday
evening. The hostess immedi-
ately showed us to a large
booth, which was comfortable
but slightly low to the ground—
Robin felt she needed a booster
seat. As we ordered, the rain
began to pour outside, but in-
side the diner the mood re-

ained cheerful and bright.

We started with an appe-
tizer, the Brew City Fries,
which were well-seasoned
without being excessively
srpicy. To drink we chose
milkshakes: vanilla for Doug
and chocolate for Robin.

The shakes arrived in tall,

a tremendous

II
THE EESTIVE
ATMOSPHERE ADDS
EXTRA FUN. WHICH
MAKES THE RINK
CADILLAC WOTH
‘l'HE DRIVE.

;_- d‘-‘fashioned gIas's‘e's‘,'“a’r'IcftlTé3'?"‘”"“""""‘l"‘"‘“'“'”’°""I

L ere thick and rich, with whipped cream and a
cherry on top. The Pink Cadillac also offers a
wide selection of other beverages, including foun-
tain drinks and Bud and Coors on tap.

We admired the colorful Elvis decor while sip-
ping our shakes and eating fries. The predomi-
nant colors inside the Pink Cadillac are pink and
teal, and the entire restaurant is well-lit and fes-

Our waitress returned quickly with our entrees.
Robin chose the Elvis Burger, a double-decker
with everything, including a “special sauce” that
gave the burger a great ﬂavor. The Elvis Burger

came with a side of regular fries,
not the Brew City variety but al-
most as enjoyable.

Meanwhile, Doug opted for
the Pink Cadillac’s unique prime
rib offer: Pick your own size of
prime rib, ranging from 5 ounces
for $5.95 to 100 ounces for
$100.95. Doug selected 12
ounces, with a baked potato and
fried apples on the side. He raved
about the prime rib and rapidly
cleared his plate.

The Pink Cadillac Diner also
serves desserts, including deli-
cious ice cream concoctions, but
after a full meal we were inca-
pable ofinvestigating further.

Dinner at the I>'Ink”‘c5dI’IIa‘¢ ”
never fails to please both the stomach and the
wallet. The menu offers a wide variety ofAll-
American fare, including omlettes, burgers,
sandwiches and, of course, the prime rib.
Prices are very reasonable, and the staff is
attentive and friendly. The festive atmo-
sphere adds extra fun, which makes the Pink
Cadillac worth the drive.

Grosse Pointe Blank:
Hollywood? Funny?

1

ﬁr ﬁr * 1/2 of 4; darkly comic

The pitch: “lt'|| be like ‘Say Anything’ meets ‘The Professlona|.’"

BY ALEX CHRISTENSEN
Pit/1MovIE CRITIC

John Cusack is a smart man.
I; More than that, he’s a ﬁne ac-

II tor—see “Better Off Dead,”

“Spy Anything,” “The Grifters.”
So why has he recently been rel-
egated to bit parts? It’s a ques-
tion there’s no good answer for.

‘E-
IIIII

'a', Gl:0ssE Polivrrz

_f BLANK

*_**‘I of4

Apparently, Cusack himself
couldn’t think of a good an-
swer either, so he took a page
from independent ﬁlmmaking,
-rodlhded up some friends and
colleagues and wrote and pro-
uced a ﬁlm with a wonderful
role for him to showcase his
owp numerous talents.
"Grosse Pointe Blank” (un-
fortunate title) is the story of
Martin Q. Blank, a professional
‘pl it man who is undergoing a life
risﬁs. The professional killing
usiness is becoming compli-
.ated because of the interfer-
nce of fellow hitter “Grocer”
‘Dan Aykroyd, hilarious),
ho is trying to form a union
fkillers (“more like a club”)
0 maximize profits and re-
uce.what can turn into very
angerous competition. Blank
n’t interested in becoming a
ember—ifyou become a hit
ran to be outside of ordinary

It»

society, why would you want
a boss?

To further stir up Martin’s
angst, his therapist, Dr. Oatman
(Alan Arkin, brilliant), is so ner-
vous about having a profes-
sional killer for a patient that
he’s no longer helping Martin.
“Did you ever think that some
of your problems might stem
from the fact that you keep kill-
ing people?” Now it’? .ime for
Martin’s ten-year high school
reunion, which brings up a
whole other boatload of issues.

Returning to Grosse Pointe to
complete a hit and attend his re-
union, Martin discovers you can’t
go home again, meets his old girl-
friend Debi (Minnie Driver) and
ﬁnally ﬁgures out what’ s important
to him. It’s not as pat as all that,
and the whole point of Grosse
Pointe Blank is to watch great ac-
tors riff on life, death, killing for
money, and midlife crises.

In addition to Cusack,
Aykroyd, Arkin, and Driver,
Cusack’s sister Joan shows up
as Blank’s secretary, and Jeremy
Piven (ofTV’s “Ellen”) is great
as an old high school chum. It’s
not just one-liners and over-the-
top situations, though those are
there as well. Martin Blank feels
real, and the situations he gets
into build and build until you’re
not just watching a movie with
a neat structure and efﬁcient
pacing, but one that completely
draws you in so you need to see
what’s going to happen next.

Director George Armitage is
very smart. He stays out of the
actors’ business, shoots the ac-
tion like action, very cleverly,

in fact, and generally makes sure
that nothing gets in John
Cusack’s way.

I’m not sure exactly why, but
Cusack’s acting ﬁlls up a lot of
holes and inconsistencies in
“Grosse Pointe Blank” so that it
all seems to come together be-
lievably (in context). It has
something to do with perceiv-
ing that Cusack is extremely in-
telligent and always on top of
things. You get the feeling that
he gets it, and it creates an in-
credible audience identiﬁcation
with him, however outrageous
the character he is portraying.
I get the feeling that nobody
else could quite have pulled
off the complexities and
quirks of the role of Martin
Blank to create such an enter-
taining, funny film.

In fact, Cusack’s perfor-
mance really transcends
“Grosse Pointe Blank” to such
an extent that thoughts of Tom
Hanks in Big or Steve Martin in
Roxanne pop up. Hopefully, the
success ofthis ﬁlm will similarly
put Hollywood on notice notjust
that Cusack can bring in the
bucks, but that he can deliver
dead-on perfonnances in a vari-
ety ofmajor “leading man” roles.
He’sjust ajoy to watch perform.

“Grosse Pointe Blank” is a
black comedy which crass-proofs
itself. lfyou didn’t laugh in Pulp
Fiction, stay away. If you’re of-
fended by disrespect for human
life being played for laughs. this
is not for you. Otherwise, grab
your popcorn and head in for one
ofthe most original ﬁlms you’ll
see this year.

H TTP://WWW. WL U. EDU/~PHI

(‘um I Kl ll\l|.\(.\
RI \| \lIl<\\l RI \'I| \\.\

lIII |(i(I\|\ ll|\

\\'I l%.\lll \(ll IIII

lll’(<I\l|\(Il\l \l\

THE

WEBSITE

THE RING-TUM PHI ON-L|NE_ HTTP://WWVI/.WLU.EDU/~PHI

\\‘II-I\I\ ll|’l)\ll|)|’\tIl\ .\l{(lll\l\

l.l\‘|\\ It) (Hill I: \l \\\|’\!’| l{\

\\l I l\
()\-I |.’\| \1‘|l\( l{|l'll(I\‘ l’(>l{\l

SI'III<I\ \( lll l)lll l \

PHI

.\l(J\ll |\‘l\l| \\.\

RING-TUM

(‘)l~(ll| III IIII \\| I l\

1,200 VISITORS IN THE FIRST rwo WEEKS

H TTP.'//WWVl/. WL U. EDU/~PHI

THE RING-TUM PHI ON-LINE HTTP://WWW.WLU.EDU/~PHI

  

MAY 19, 1997

  

Get the student loan that
gives you What you Want.

FROM CITIBANK

 

W/hat you need A

to get what you want?“

Call (888)CITI—911, and ask for Operator 7107,
wWW.citibanl<.com/student, or Visit your FAA ofﬁce.

 

   
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
  

ion
E rial

PAGE 5 MAY 19, 1997

 

 Get out!

Why are you just sitting there? Yeah, until now
Spring Term has been rainy and basically a huge drag,
but now we can actually view the sun. The highs
recently have been in the 80s and it is gorgeous outside.
So get off your ass and take advantage of it!

There are many things to do around our
humble Lexington to attract the die-hard
otltdoorsy type or the person who just likes to
take a hike every once in a while. Of course,
everyone knows where Goshen is, and if you
have not made a venture out there at least once
lpring spring term you just are not a W&L
V tudent. But what else is there?

Take a drive past Buena Vista up to the Blue
‘ Fdge Parkway and turn either north or south to
‘ .1d amazing views as well as great hiking trails.
here are places where you can park your car
-nd take a short hike to a lake placed a little
». uvay back from the road.

Did you know that there are rivers out there
0 er than the Maury? The James and the
Roanoke flow close by and can be reached with a
short car ride. Canoeing, kayaking and tubing
are great on a hot day. Just think of lazing in a
raft ﬂoating in cool water rather than doing that
Linear Algebra. The Outing Club will teach you
how to kayak. See that phone? Pick it up... call
for information... do it.

In the mood to do some caving? The karst
limestone that covers this area carves out
cairerns that are just begging to be explored. Go
do some spelunking. The Outing Club actually
will teach you how to do this, too. (Another plug
for the Outing Club. Shameless, aren't I?) It

e 11 sets up trips to local caves to take just this
-4 ind of adventure.

So you want to stay on the ground? Take up
mountain biking. You can hop on that sucker
and take off. Go explore the woods behind the
Law School and some of the country roads
around here. If VMI was still in session you
could try to mow down some cadets. Go ahead
and perfect your form so you can take up this
new variation in the fall.

‘lThere are so many things to do that you have
no excuses to still be sitting there reading this.
Look outside the window -- the sun is calling
you. Set down those books for an hour or two
a take off. Your professors will forgive you,
'ust tell them the Phi made you do it.

GET UP, GET OUT and GET GOING!!!

Quote of the week

  “The only exercise I
‘get during spring
 term is hooking

99

V «up.

-- a physically-ﬁt,
anonymous sophomore

Eh: iﬂing-tum lﬂhi

Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher

Executive Editors

Managing Editor Hillary Coombs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
‘T
News Editors Kathryn Mayumik

Tom Wadlow

Features Editor Tarah Grant

Opinion Editor David Balsley

g 4 Copy Editor Cliff Woolley
l v Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Business Manager Rebecca Cuny

Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown

r The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub-
scription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica-
' tions Board elects the Executive Editor and Business
Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce. room 208 of the University Center. by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for
content and length. Letters, columns, and “My Views"
do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-
rial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of
xi‘ he Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
1 Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

 

Turning a liberal eye to
W&L campus politics

Since this is my last column ofthe year,
I thought I would end with a few thoughts
that have been ﬂoating around my mind for
the past couple of months. I was recently
illuminated by a friend’s offhand comment:
“I read your column when it’s not about

From the Left
Laura Knapp ’99

politics.” I had to laugh; my column is
always about politics. Honestly, besides the
Hollywood-esque glamour of working for
the Phi, my original intent in writing “From
the Left” was to provide a counterpoint to
those entrenched W&L/conservative views
and maybe win

over a few con- ‘ ‘

deavor—at least so far. Even I could be
labeled “Exhibit A” of this failure; I am
spending my summer working for my Re-
publican congresswoman. Have I done such
a poor job that I have converted myself from
liberalism? Or maybe I just suffer from
diffusion—<:oncentration of a high degree
of Republicanism toa lowerdegree? Hardly.
I would still support Ralph Naderover Newt
Gingrich and free hypodermic needles to
heroin users to stop the spread of AIDS
every day and twice on Sundays.

Butback to my original point: it is impos-
sible to change anyone’s mind unless people
actually read what I write. So here’s my big
epiphany: don’t write about politics. To
those students outside the politics depart-

ment who scurry around the science build-
ing, discussion
about federal

verts to the lib-
eral cause in the
process. ltry to

(heaven forbid

We need to get ac-

would be a sign of life!

welfare beneﬁts
and education re-
form may be a bit

stirupsomecriti-    a dry. IVS Undef-

‘ ' , . ta dable. So, to
Eiirlanifzlirlglukriirieﬁt  r  zertslemypurpose

‘ . _ , f. .t.

§§ld§.°.3§'Z.é§ the HI//- A1‘ /9351‘ It §.’...'."l.°i.I.'.'.§§§’.'§:
around here bateoncampus,l

propose to alter
my range of in-

that you should
have to stand up
and admit that you support extending fed-
eral welfare benefits to tax-paying legal
immigrants rather than to Fortune 500
companies).

I think I might have failed in my en-

, ’ quiry and discus-
sion. l’ll leave national matters tothe profes-
sional pundits and turn my attention to cam-
pus matters and more“GenX” topics.

My change in focus should by no means
be construed to mean that national political

ARE Triﬁl  ~A'l>.t. jun”... THE‘/'LL_
Sfurb OUT ‘DE-m4ND|N(r HAD “'5 {
Tuer-E 7
Rea//libs‘.

matters are not important to W&L students; in
a recent interview for a position on the Contact
Committee, I commented that there is simply a
lack of activeness——-political or otherwise——on
campus. Of course, I was rebuffed by the EC,
so maybe I am wrong, but I think that most
W&Lstudents don’t feel too strongly about too
much. Students don’t even feel strongly about
conservative subjects. For example: There are
over 200 members of the College Republican
Club. Do you ever hear about their activities?
Why not? We are all wasting away in our
inactivity and passiveness. We are young and
damn smart, and we have the world before us.
We have the ability to effect great change. So
why don’t we?

We need to get active. Let’s havea Right-to-

Life rally on the Hill. At least it's a sign of life!
One of the most fascinating events on campus
this year was the Miller vs. Christensen debate.

The sheer number of people who attended was .

amazing and the event was not even school-
sponsored. Students simply came out to hear
and consider both sides because they were
interested and not because a professor made
them. Unfortunately, Alex did a disservice to
those supposed “subversive” elements of the
campus by being unprepared. But wouldn’t it
be great if we could have that type of critical-
thinking exercise more often?

Before it is too late, before we all gooff to be
doctors, lawyers and investment bankers, Iet’s
get active. Let’s get involved. Let’sstand up for
what we believe.

Jell-O and scenic Lex make for fond memories

I cannot believe that I only have two weeks of school left
for the rest of my life. Without a doubt, going to Washington
and Lee was one of the best decisions I’ve ever made. it’s
going to be hard to leave for a lot of reasons, reasons I might

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

good prices.

Navy blazersas farastheeyecan see. Whatcan lsay? I
love it when guys are all dressed up. Clearly, I chose the right

place to spend four years.

suspected then that this would notbethe case. Fancy Dres never
fails to vividly prove them wrong.

I*lneDiningOptions. Stop-In dogs, free popcorn at The
Palms and the General Lee can’t be beat for good food at

hadn’t lived in Lexington, I’d have no idea how funny it isto put
a sticker on the back window of your truck depicting Calvin
peeing on Dale Earnhardt’s number.

Foxﬁeld. A wise W&Lalum once told me that life is nothing

more than periods between Foxﬁelds He may have had a point.

For me, the opportunity to wear a straw hat is reason enough to
love Foxﬁeld.

8 am. classes. l’ll sure miss 8 a.m. clases, kind of like how

The Colonnade. When I’ve been

as well write about in this, my second to last column ever. So

here they are, things l’ll miss about Washington and Lee.
The D-hall. There is such a comfort in knowing that any

time of any day, Jell-O will be available in a greater array of

colors and flavors than I ever imagined. .

The hike to and from the freshman parking lot.
Having to trudge 300 miles to get to my car sure helped me
decide whether or not I really needed to go to Wal-Mart, but
the view at Liberty Hall ruins sure made it worth the trip.

Fancy Dress. When I was a senior in high school, the
post—graduation HaveFunAndDon ’tDoDru gs party was pro-

and life is perfect.

away from Lexington forawhile, see-

ing the Colonnade again makes me

feel at home. W&Listruly one of the

most beautiful places in the world.
My friends. Enough said.

. Spring term. The classes I’ve
taken in spring term have been
among the most interesting I’ve
ever had. Pairthatwithasunny day

Lexington. Sure, it’s no Paris, but Lexington has acharm all
its own. Lexington’s tree-lined streets, historic homes and

I oﬁen missed 8 a.m. cla$es when I

in theiworld.

W&L is truly one of the
most beautiful places

had them.
My column. Writing
GreenLand has been a great oppor-

tunity for me. Thanks to everyone
who has complimented my column
 mg arrdpnoouraged me along the way,

Ian Levy and Edye Poecker, who

with special recognition goingout to

shamelessly requested that I men-
tiontheirnames. ldoubtthat l’ll ever

be able to write about whatever I feel like rambling about again,
and I sure will miss it. I hope I’ve made you all laugh along the

moted as “probably the best party you’ll ever go to!” I

Improving the Phi

We here at The Ring-tum Phi have ﬁnally realized that our paper is pretty
darn lousy. But don’tblame us...blameourparents. My psychiatrist certainly
does. Anyway, the point is that we’re not going down without a ﬁght. We’re
working to make our paper better, better even than that other one. (I’m
referring, of course, to The Washington Post.) Here are a few of the new

The Looney Bin

Kevin McManemin ’00

features to watch for in upcoming issues:

Grossly inaccurate weather forecasts. Snow in May. 98 degrees and
slight chance of tornado in the middle of January. You’ll never know what
we’ll make up for the week’s wacky weather in the Phi.

Unfounded rumors. Which deans are sleeping with which freshmen this
week? What circus animals are going into the vats at the D-hall? Which
member of the Math Department just married Princess Di? Hey, they may
not be true, but you’ll have loads of fun reading these lies.

Stupid headlines. Just wait until you see what we have in store: “Mean
Dean Seen In Keen Jeans,” “Savvy Sophomore Sells Seven Seats to
Shakespeare Stage Show” and “This Week, Greek Freaks and Meek Geeks
Seek to Sneak Peaks at Roof Leaks.” That’s right, the content of articles will
no longer matter, as long as the author can come up with a rhyming and/or
alliterative headline.

Apathetic political columnkts. No matter what’s going on in the crazy
world of politics, you can count on one thing: our political columnists won’t
give a rat’s ass. Left wing, right wing, it’s all just a bunch of meaningle$
claptrap to these guys. They don’t keep up on the news, so if you want
indifferent opinions on last year’s headlines, look no further than the Phi.

Better pictures. Soon we’ll print the ﬁrst of our “scratch and sniff’
pictures. Also, there will be more pictures of naked supermodels. Now, if we
could only combine the two...

New title. We decided that the only way people will read our paper is if
we change our name to The Trident So from now on, lock for us under our
new name.

Tighter editorial control Weill make sure failed humor columns don’t
go on too long. We’ll cut them off mid-sentence if

countless little gift shops "pretty much deﬁne quaint. And if I

way. One more to go!

Letter to the editor:

Dear Phi Editors,

On the front page of last week’s Phi, you ran
an article about a study on educational funding
done by that vigilant environmental and con-
sumer watchdog, the U.S. Public Interest Re-
search Group (U.S. PIRG). For the past three
summers, I have had the privilege of working for
the state PIRGS through their national campaign
network, The Fund for Public Interest Research
(generally referred to as “the Fund”). The Fund
is the largest grassroots campaign network in the
country, and this summer, they will be running
offices for groups like the PlRGs, the Sierra Club
and the Audubon Society. Working for them has
been the most rewarding job experience I’ve ever
had. I’m writingto tell other W&L students about
job opportunities available through the Fund and
to tell my fellow classmates why they should
consider working in the ass-kicking non-profit
community while they are still young and able to
enjoy working hard for something they love.

The most compelling reason to work forthe
Fund is because right now our environment and
the nation’s health are in trouble. Half of our
lakes and a third of our rivers are too polluted to
fish or swim in. Millions of Amereican breathe
air every day that doesn’t meet minimum health
standards. Unfortunately, special interests give
millions of dollars every year to our Congress to
weaken our environmental laws. That’s ridicu-
lous. So how does this whole job thing work?

I started working for the Fund as a political
canvasser during the summer of 1994. As a
political canvasser, I spent my afternoons and
evenings engaged in the radical act of going door-
to-door and actually talking to people I’d never
met before about environmental protection. This

might seem like a crazy thing to do, but it turns
out that canvassing is not only a whole hell of a

lot easier than it looks (since the Fund has .7. great \,

training program), but it’s also a lot of fun. I met

lots of really great people, I got concerned citi-; E

zens involved in the environmental movement, I

learned how to effectively and succinctly com- 
municate ideas, and I learned a lot about how
democracy works. And I made enough money to

buy a car.

Sound like fun? It was. So much so that I
returned the following summer as the Assistant, .
Director ofthe Indianapolis Sierra Club ofﬁce. I ‘

was twenty years old during my first summer as
a director. I couldn’t legally drink alcohol, but I
was able to meet with members of Indiana’s
congressional delegation, organize and conduct
a televised press conference, run petitioning tables
at rock concerts, and most importantly, I was able
to recruit and train a citizen outreach staff that
added over a thousand new members to the
Indiana chapter of the Sierra Club. These are the
kinds of experiences available to you through the
Fund, and believe you me, they look mighty darn
impressive on a resume. You can also feelgood
about the work you’re doing. Plus you’re work-
ing with other intelligent and motivated young
people who are sincerely dedicated to and enthu-
siastic about their jobs.

If you’re interested in ﬁnding out more about
the Fund and the jobs available for the summer
campaign season, you should call their toll-free
number 1-800-75-EARTH. Working for the
Fund has taught me to be a better leader, a better
organizer and a better citizen. I can’t recommend
the experience highly enough, especially since
they gave me a paying job after graduation.

Sincerely,

Catherine Resmer ’97

the Colonnade club by +,.n.-5..., ho.-.,
0lll.1/cl‘./*’f£1*5 .2EML-Y ﬁt-A3‘

  

 

 

 

 

L//~'¥i"‘k”7'3£Z glib W-iii-'. We ”‘E*“W““F:i

ZC /»At~l *1‘ eetleve

  


r UFIEL-D. 1-lei" AL«WlW’: . ...
3': de»’le‘1'r"A-«'1; Aiw-an/e‘:_ I

lnxlaw R6“; A-rug, 51/1”

   

  

  
    

 

Atlrite an .
a Vt':«N U? 0N
 : E: wuoarr WME ‘ﬁe-my
D.

 
   
    
  
     
   
 
   

  
    

I new 4 Mr‘ 06152»
You (7E’:"t"1"0 wow PM
Ht?"‘z éﬁfttle 99291"
eeixlecj; 0F Hutvloe. ..
tie-'9 Woemtr one
5’? 7% ‘zM P<'.2r'r:cn'
MV4 IN the 6t£lwL- »- '
AND 1 99:4; H1_-ac,
Vt‘-'7t\Ll/Y
4'E—,"{\]5/lfll(9‘- -»

  
  

    

 

' tlvw area I vmyev

~ IN Vi’-Amt? 1?«‘W.l'.
 W P6929?  N
" we Aweeouel

     
 

  

  

 

SPORTS  

THE BIG FAN, SELF-DEFENSE, AND TRACK

 
  

PAGE 6

MAY 19, 1997

Self-defense class teaches more than karate

Division In National BY ERICA PROSSER years. It is taught ‘by security ofﬁcers Melvin
Tennis Championships PH; STAFF WRITER Davis, Shannon Stiltner and Scott Rowe. The
class is provided through the Rape Aggression
Tomorrow: For every woman who has felt helpless, Defense organization, based in Poquoson, VA.
there is a class that can change that. Ofﬁcers must go to the R.A.D. headquarters
9 '<1-m- Slflgles Quaflfirﬁnals Washington and Lee offers PE 120, Self- and spend three 12-hour days in an oﬁicial program
N000 Singles 5emlﬁI1alS Defense for Women, every term, and the thatteaches them how to teach self-defense to others.
3 P-m- Doubles Quanﬁfflnals course is an incredible success. W&L pays for the program, and Young mentioned
' “The class teaches young women to be that the PE department is always very helpful and
Wednesday: aware of their situation and to be able to take accomodating to the program.

9 a m Sin leg Finals the steps necessary to escape from a rapist,” “(The department) provides the equipment,” he
' ' g . Director of Security Mike Young said. said, including. “red man suit”that the officers wear

Noon Doubles Semiﬁnals . ,,
. Twelve women are admitted to each class, to protect themselves when the women beat them

3 p.m. Doubles Finals ,, . . .
and up. The program IS good hands—on training, Young
Menis -I-rack. At NCAA Young admitted that often, women “beg remarked, and it “certainly gives women a skill they
- Championships to be let in.” can use the rest oftheirlife." Hand-to-hand combat is

Uwiacrosse, The class is being offered at W&L ﬁve alarge part of every class.

Thursday times per year (2 classes every fall and win- According to Young, the program will be ex-
ter, 1 class each spring) for at least two full panding for the 1997-98 school year. Instead of

only 12 women per class, 18 will now be able to
sign up, increasing the number of women who
can take the class by ﬁfty percent. No plans
exist now to train another ofﬁcer, but Young in-
dicated that this expansion is certainly a posi-
tive step. He strongly advised that every woman
participate in the program to gain the skills they
never forget.

Sophomore Nadiyah Howard, who took the
class her freshman yearat W&L. She called the
program enjoyable and helpful. “I learned a lot
of things that made me more conﬁdent in my
ability to protect myself.”

Howard remarked that the teachers were ex-
ceptional. “They made it clear that the class was
to be educational, but it was also fun,” she said.

Not all students are ecstatic about the pro-
gram, however. One sophomore male was an-
gry that a similar program is not offered for men.

‘I|

“Why should (a woman) get credit for some-
thing I can’t even take?” he asked. He contin-
ued that the class sounded interesting, full of
good techniques.

“What if there were a cool academic class
only offered to men, with no equivalent class
available to women?” he asked. “What would
women think?”

Young was surprised at the idea of a men’s
self-defense class. However, he said that such
an idea is not impossible. A men’s program
could be started in the future if a demand for it
existed.

V R.A.D. is a defense program that operates na;
tionwide. The organization claims that no
woman who has taken the class has ever been raped
afterward. The class, Young said, “makes women
more aware of their surroundings” and teaches
them escape venues when a rape situation arises.“

 softball valuable for future

 BIG FAN

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER

I have never been a big advocate
of our PE requirements here. While
it is important to keep in shape, three
or four classes should be plenty to
fulﬁll a PE requirement, not ﬁve.

It is annoying to schedule them
around our regular class schedules,
particularly in the fall and winter
terms. It is also ludicrous that inter-
collegiate athletes are not exempt
from taking other classes to fulﬁll the
requirements, since they practice
longer at their sports than we do at
our regular PE classes. And don’t get
me started on the registration process.
f With that said, I’ll have to admit
that the PE classes I have taken thus
far have beneﬁtted me immensely.
My volleyball and tennis skills im-
proved tremendously after taking
those classes.

This term I am taking softball
along with’ 80-90 other people and it
has been by far my funniest PE class.
It helps to be on a good team, and I’d

like to thank my terriﬁc teammates
Ericka Snyder (our captain and speedy
lead-off hitter), Seth Kellerman, Jon
Wright, David Ledlie, Pete
Hammond, Chris Higgs, Taryn
Kiekow, Kevin Alexander and
Tommy Dudley for carrying us this
far while I try to shake the rust off
from not playing competitive softball
in several years. (OK, I’m really not
that great, but it sounds better to say
I’m still rusty.) But at least I’m im-
proving, which is a direct result of tak-
ing this class, and it is clear the others
are improving their skills too.

After losing on opening day, we
have won ﬁve straight games head-
ing into the playoffs next week. The
fabled PE softball championship tro-
phy would certainly look good next
to my Pony League baseball trophy if
we can make it that far. Or maybe the
A+ in the class, which as Coach
Cerone pointed out, could be the dif-
ference between summa cum laude
and magna cum laude. There are
some lessons to be learned from this
class and softball in general.

First, it helps to have some heavy

lumber in your lineup because soft-
ball games are always high-scoring
and no lead is ever safe. We have won
games by football scores such as 28-
27, 27-24 and 22-21.

Second, it takes a lot of guts to
pitch. After seeing a pitcher nearly
get killed the other day after a line
drive slammed into his face, that real-
ization hit home. Also, hitting
grounders in softball isn’t necessarily
a bad thing, since inﬁelders can have
a tough time playing tricky hops on
the bumpy ﬁelds.

So what’s my point to all this?
Take the softball PE class if you
haven’t already and bring a catcher’s
mask and pads if you want to pitch.
You will hopefully ﬁnd the competi-
tion and atmosphere as fun as I have.
As much as we may complain about
taking PE classes, the athletic skills
we learn now will pay dividends for
the rest ofour lives, unlike Calculus
II.

If nothing else, we can show up our
co-workers at company picnics with
an athletic ability other than lifting
beer cans.

 

 

I

O

I
"90!’ FWOUF ®l‘€SSy

RV/v
\

\

    
  
  
   

\

  

17  9‘[e[i012 CS/reel‘
gexzlrzy/012, Uzfyzbzb 244450

(540) 46? I66’!

- ll
0000310125

 
 
       
 
 
     
        
     
      

 

O

    
  
    
 
    
    
     
  
 
   
 
  

I

J31‘/* 01°122a[9 O 

 71x0/0.9 *Q7cce.s‘0r1°e

O

\

  

I A U.C.
Santa Cruz’
COURTESY or SPOR1S INFORMATION .
tennis

Washington and Lee University player stays
Director of Athletics Mike Walsh has alive in their
announced that a record number of 84 first round
students have been named to receive

of the
Scholar-Athlete Awards for the re-
cently completed winter term. NCM

The 84 honorees breaks the old tenmsh
mark of 80 set in the 1994 fall term. champion-
/;/llgépgf the stulcllents are rrinembers of Ships last

interco egiate at etic teams
and earned at least a 3.50 GPA for the week U'C'
term. Santa Cruz)

Additionally, a record total of 109 W35 Seeded
Washington and Lee athletes earned No.1 at the
a 3.50hGPA orbbettler in fpnelgf tw: beginning of
termst is year, rea ingt e o mar _,
of 103 set in 1994-95. the mum”

Eleven athletes achieved at least a men_t’ but
40 for the winter term, including 10st In the
sophomore All—ODAC tennis player first round.
Scott Babka and senior track and soc- They fin)‘
cer captain Anthony Mazzarelli. - -

The women’s volleyball team had ‘Shed H: 6th
the highest team GPA at 3.475. The p ace‘
highest men’s GPA belonged to the
CrOSS_COumry team with a 3087_ Photo by I-Iollister Hovey / Photo Editor V

 

  

  

When you bank with us, you

  

Your Bank of Rockbridge che

For scream-free banking, open your personal checking
account with Bank of Rockbridge. When you bank with _us
you get a choice of 8 different checking accounts", including
our popular student account "Campus Checking‘. .
cking account gives you free, unlimited usage
of our 10 area ATM’s. You can also access your account while you re at home.
Just look for the HONOR, PLUS or CIRRUS signs. They re eyerywhere.

Our two Lexington offices (each with 24-hour drive—up ATM ,5) are located
in places you probably go everyday. Ever go to Wendy s, Frank s, Kroger or

Harris-Teeter? We’re right next door - and there’s plenty of parking.
’11 be cared for by some of the friendliest people

you’ll ever meet - folks who’1l take a special interest in you and your acccount. I _
We’ve been doing this for 64 years - it’s a good bet we know what we re doing. r 
Come open an account at Bank of Rockbridge today.

 
    

 
  

Mountain
C

"  Nelson. St.

   

Cgigyphics 1, A‘

   

‘ I one;

   

9 5 yours with» a Bank.‘ of Rockbrid 1‘ e 3 I V.
 b‘f¢he¢1;i;1g-a¢¢i?niit1.£‘Open: one todayf: ‘   

  

f.

 

  
   

  

ank ofRo¢i<bridge AT1\ 4¢ar<¥=
"9113  1 (’4’J'_".5‘ in  ’dng'F9“‘

   

 

   
  
   

E. Nelson»St. office
463-6690

Hwy 11, N. (Kroger)
463-4115

Bank  
Rockbridge t

 
 
 
    
 

 

  

