 

 

Che ﬂing—t1tm Iﬂlri 

1' VOLUME 98, NUMBER 666

,-K

t
I
I
I
I
I

4.

 

ALL NUDE, ALL THE TIME:

The W&L Art Department will be holding a porn exhibit,
Tuesday in duPont Auditorium. This is the first in a series of
events the Art Department is planning in order to expand its
horizons. Next week they will be presenting a series on
decorative taxidermy.

LEYBURN HOSTS STORY TIME:

Leyburn Library will be holding a special ‘read-aloud’
story time for kids six and under. The event will be held in
Northern Auditorium on Thursday.

Some examples of the works which will be read include
excerpts from novels by Stephen King, the Book of Revela-
tion and poetry by Charles Manson.

BRING YOUR OWN SACRIFICE:

A symposium hosted by the English department will be
held in Lee Chapel at 5 p.m. Friday. The symposium entitled
“Starting Your Own Cult: People Will Like You,” will feature
discussions on everything from demon summoning to recog-
nizing your ride off the earth. For more information, contact
Satan via the Registrar.

W&L WANTS YOUR GOAT:

Due to the sudden breakdown of all Building and Ground’s
lawn equipment, the University asks all students with grazing
farm animals to bring them to the Hill on Friday to help graze
down the grass.

Note: To protect your animal’s safety, all goats must be off
the lawn by 5 p.m. as not to coincide with the cult symposium.

OUTING CLUB SHOWS SKIN:

To celebrate the opening of the Art Department’s porn
exhibit, the W&L outing club will be hosting a nude party in
the Dell on Tuesday. Party goers are asked not to stare too
hard at President Elrod if he decides to attend.

JOIN DRUG SUPPORT GROUP:

Local area residents and W&L professors have teamed up

to try to teach drug awareness to the Rockbridge area commu-

nity. The group will meetron Tuesday nights;' - I- ~ I

GHQ’ SERVES SPECIAL MEAL:

After the cult symposium in Lee Chapel on Friday, the
GHQ Bistro 9000 X V0.9 Beta will be holding a special meal
for all attendees of the event. The menu will include roast
lamb, Rocky Mountain oysters and applesauce laced with
Phenobarbital. Shots of vodka will be sewed for dessert.

DO YOU WANT TO DANCE:

The music department at W&L will be sponsoring a class
on how to dance the Lambada. The unique aspect ofthis event
is attendees will be taught the dance using inflatable turtles.
Classes will be held on Thursday and Friday. For more
information, please contact the music department.

PSYCHIC TO SPEAK IN CHAPEL:

On Saturday, three psychics from the highest peaks of
Tibet will speak in Lee Chapel. The talk, entitled “What Your
Dead Relatives Say Behind Your Back,” will cost $3.50 for
the first minute and $1.50 for each additional minute.

For more information, concentrate and they will
contact you.

WE HATE YOU, TOO:

Do you think no one likes you? Do you feel like you are the
least popular person on the Hill? Well, you’re right.

BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH:

Blah blah blah, ba blah ba ba blah. Blah blah, blah ba-blah
ba blah blah blah; blah ba blah. Ba blah blah blah, blah ba blah
blah blah blah blah. “It was great!”

—COl\'%PlLED BY Yo’ MoMMA

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Bulk Rate
US Postage

APRIL 1, 200 1

President Elrod tours with Kl

BY I.P. FREELY
PHI STAFF WRITER

President Elrod sent a letter to the
Trustees last week informing them of
his leave of absence starting spring term
and lasting throughout 1997.

Details of the letter were leaked to
The Ring-tum Phi. In it, Elrod told the
trustees that he had to “follow his
dreams,” and went on to say, “this is an
opportunitythat few collegiate
presidents get. I think that it
will help the University’s ex-
posure.” This evidently in-
cludessubbingin for Kissbass
player Gene Simmons.

Elrod has been a long-time
friend of several Kiss mem-
bers. Inthemid-l970’saKiss
spokesperson said, “Our makeup and
outfits are inspired after those actually
worn by John Elrod.”

Over the years, Elrod has written
freelance songs forthe band. His credits
include “Lick it up,” “I Like it Loud,”
and the smash hit “Rock ‘n’ Roll All
Nite.”

“It was a shame he left the band, but
at his successes, we support him one

 

hundred percent.” said Kiss guitarist.
“He is a kick-a** bass player and a real
asset to the band.”

Elrod’s announcement came as a
major shock to the Trustees. “I respect
his decision,” Gerry Lenfest said. “His
reasons were solid and his motives were
clear. I think the University should
stand solidly behind President Elrod.”

Also leaving the University will be
David Howison, who signed on after
Elrod asked him to be a Kiss
roadie. ‘‘I’m excited,” said
Howison, “this is like all my
childhood dreams come
true.”

Many other professors
have stated they would like
to go on tour with Kiss as
well, but their classes do not
permit it.

“I would love to go out and groove
with Kiss,” Lloyd Dobyns of the jour-
nalism department said. “Unfortu-
nately, Ijust don’t have time with my
classes and my techno band’s rigorous
funk practice sessions.”

Elrod and Howison willjoin the band
in Richmond on Wednesday. Mimi
Elrod will join them in San Francisco.

  

 > o P I N I o N
‘ Our opinion is that you suck. Your haircut is ugly, you
have terrible B0 and you have a really fat butt. Your

mother must have been Dr. Ruth.

5 FEATURES

Dr. Ruth speaks in
tongues and then
shaves her head. Squir-
rels attack! Dastardly
Dave reviews the finest
in porn. “They're all four
stars!” Dave says. It is
the dawning of the age
of Aquarius.

NEXT I SS U E :
The Fling-tum Phi speaks to the dead.

 

BY RICKY ARNEZ
PHI STAFF WRITER

W&L student goes Mexicano

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
  

Senior Steve Frame has given up hisjob search for
after graduation. Although Frame has been offered
management-track positions by several Fortune
500 companies, he has decided to persue a career
: as a guitarist with a strolling mariachi band.

I SpringTerm, Frame will intern at El Puerto Mexi-
I can Restaurant. “I’m really glad l’ll be able to spend
I [Spring Term] getting practical experience in my
I field,” Frame said. “El Puerto actually has been
. very supportive ofthe arts since its opening. For
g a while, they had a woman who would dance on
the bar during the break between lunch and
j dinner.”

Beverly’Lorig, director of the Career Develop-
ment and Placement Office, helped arrange Frame’s
internship. “This is another of our many success
 stories. We’re really quite proud of Steve. We’re
 still exploring options for after graduation, but
’ right now we’re thrilled with his internship. If
we can’t get anything solid by June, Steve isjust
going to go to Tiajuana and see what he can

find.” '
' Frame's musical career is a success story. He got
his start entertaining people during the Mr. W&L
contest in 1994. He has high hopes for the
mariachi band and hopes to eventually become
the most well known mariachi player in all the

  funky IIl1lSiC   world.
Easter Bunny captured by locals

Apparently, the Easter Bunny was making his Easter
rounds, stealing all of the children’s eggs in the areain order
to make a giant omelet when local hunters caught sight of
him.

“I wasout lookingfordeer to kill and decapitate forawall-
hanging, when I caught sight of his ugly yellow hide.”
Rockenheimer said. “He was standing with his back to me.
I think he was relieving himself.”

Rockenheimer went on to explain he quickly loaded
some tranquilizer darts into his rifle and opened ﬁre.

“When all my buddies heard me shooting, they all started
ﬁring too. We were lucky that they were shooting tranqs too
or that big Bunny would be full of holes instead of full of
dope,” Rockenheimer said.

The Easter Bunny was taken to the Lexington Police
Department where he was booked and thrown into the drunk
tank to sleep off the tranquilizers.

Photo by Cheech and Chong

BY SANTA CLAUs
PHI STAFF WRITER

The most wanted criminal since Charles Manson was
captured thismomingat approximately 5:30 a.m. The Easter
Bunny, wanted in all 50 states, was shot 43 timesby local area
hunters’ tranquilizer guns.

“He went down like a 80 pound bag of manure,” Keith
R. Rockenheimer, a Lexington resident, said.

The Bunny, who has been sought after by the police, the
national guard and all fourdivisions of the armed forces, was
wanted for breaking and entering, kidnapping, libel, slander,
drunk in public, indecent exposure, petty larceny, bad taste,
terrible body odor and the murder of the Energizer Bunny,
who was found battery-less last Friday, his drum torn from
his mangy pink hide.

Photo by The Tooth Fairy

The men who shot the Easter Bunny look at their prisoner.

Photo by Uh...I forget

Photo by Seymore Butts

In another decisive move,
the Lex P.D. made another
huge bust which turned up
a whole lot of crack.

Big Mouth    
gets beaten  

BY THE INSTIGATOR AND THE BALL BOY
Pm STAFF WRlTERS

Freshman Kevin MeManemiII, who in last week’s
Phi suggested fraternities “create new methods of
socially acceptable torture” for their pledges,is now
eating his words.

It seems the brothers of the house McManemin
pledged have taken him up on his offer. Last Friday,
McManemin was taken to Schenectady, New York’s
infamous red-light district.

Upon arrival, McManemin reports, he was forced
to drink horse semen. “It really is a lot like Pabst and
Natty Light,” McManemirI said. “ I was just making
that up when I wrote it in my column.”

McManemin was paddled, forced to deﬁne and
use the word “delineate” in a sentence, figure out the
meaning of life, change his socks and make passes
at inanimate objects.

McManemin was hit with a brick the size of a
ham, a ham the size of a brick, the BBC’s Mr. Bean
(actually, Mr. Bean was unavailable, but a very
good imitator stepped in) and a ham the size of Mr.
Bean.

While he was being pummeled, McManemin
was forced to chant the Greek alphabet, “Ohm,
shanti shanti,” “We are the knights who say NI!”
and “Hello Mudda/Hello Fadda/Here I am at/Camp
Grenada.”

When all of the torture and chanting was over,
the brothers and McManemin returned to Lexing-
ton, where McManemin was welcomed into the full
brotherhood and given a pack of gum and a coupon
book.

McManemin says of his experience in
Schenectady, “I never knew Schenectady really had
a red light district. Now that l’ve been there, I have
to say that with the right advertising, Schenectady
could give Amsterdam 21 run for its money.”

“It’s really good to be in a fraternity with a sense
of humor about initiation rituals,” McManemin
said, “but I wonder ifl shouldn’t have joined one of
those fraternities that just beats you for an hour.”

 

 

R 0
THE DAWNING OF THE AGE OF AQUARIUS V  & 6 GUEss THE PAGE NUMBER, WIN A PRIZE

Pledgelhzer ll

BY ANToNIo BANDERAS
PHI UNICYCLE REPAIRMAN

azer, Inc. has supplied W&L fra
ternities with a new toy for Hell
Week.

The PledgeTazer appeared at Wash-
ington and Lee last week. The inven-
tion, which promises to “outperform
any boring old paddle,” is designed to
give fraternity pledges a shock of elec-
tricity when it comes into contact with
a pledge posterior.

A spokesman for Tazer, Inc., ap-
peared at W&L last Thursday.

“Tazer, Inc., feels that the fra-
ternity system offers a large po-
tential for sales,” Pat
Youontheheadwitharock said. ‘‘It
is the belief of Tazer, Inc., that
the violent act of hazing and those
who participate in it can benefit
from the use of our product. We
are making every effort to extend
fraternity brothers our support.”

Commenting on the apparent popu-
larity of the product,
Youonthehead-
witharock said,
“Who would
want to use a
paddle when
they can fulfill
their sadistic
fantasies on
unsuspecting
boys with thou-
sands of watts of
Tazer Power?”

“On behalf of the
Interfraternity Council,
I would like to extend our
thanks to Tazer, Inc.,” IFC
President Anthony
Mazzarelli said. “We feel that
thisisjustthe sortofkickinthe
pantsthe fraternity system needs,
no pun intended.”

Mazzarelli acknowledges that
along with new pleasures,

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

 

PledgeTazer offers new responsibili-
ties.

“We are tightening our restric-
tions on fraternities to avoid abuse
of the PledgeTazer,” Mazzarelli
said. “However, we recognize that

we can’t watch fraternities all
the time, so brothers will basi-
cally be able to do whatever
they want most of the time, no
matter how many rules we
make.”
“Ithinkthewholething’sabsurd,”
Professor Holt Merchant, Professor
of History,said. “Students already
cometo my classes drunk. Now
they’re going to be armed, too.
In my personal opinion, it’s
not good to combine alcohol
and handheld weapons.”
The popularity ofthe
device on campus
seems to have carried
over to the commu-
nity. The Lexington Police

llls Hell Week

Department, realizing the
PledgeTazer’s usefulness, has placed
an order with Tazer, Inc.

“Wc’re not exactly sure what we’ll
use them for,” Officer B.
Eatyouwithmynightstick said. “But
we’re getting sort oftired ofourthree-
wheeled parking enforcement thing,
and we need something new to play
with.”

Letters from concerned parents of
freshmen have begun to arrive in
Washington Hall.

“Naturally, parents are concerned
that their children are going to be
harmed as a result of the use of this
device,” President Elrod said. “And
their concerns arejustified. Freshmen
get hurt here.”

Fora while, at least, the PledgeTazer
will be prevalent on campus.

“ljust love this thing,”Joe Hardon,
a brother at a W&L fraternity, said.
“Sometimes I even use it on myself.
It’s hard as hell to paint, though.”

Leyburn library razed

BY HONG’ KONG FUEY
PHI #1 SUPERGUY

 

Rarely has destruction
been such a cause for celebra-
tion.

The recent destruction of
Leyburn Library, considered
long overdue by many in the
Washington and Lee commu-
nity, rid the university of one
of its greatest blights. The
day was a cause for campus-
wide celebration.

“We’ve been planning this
for months,” President “John
John” Elrod said. Afterafare-
well speech, in which Elrod
promised a more aesthetically
pleasing future, a small ther-
monuclear warhead was deto-
nated in sub level three of the
library, leveling the building
and drawing applause from
the throng of people who had
come to see the building’s
demise. The event was fol-
lowed by a concert featuring
Elrod’s latest band, Kiss.
(Please see the News page for
more information.)

Leyburn Library will be
replaced with a new structure
which will embody some of

V the administration’s plans for
 future building projects. The
" new “hyper—library,” as it is
3 already being called by many
‘on campus, will include: a

parking garage, a student
union, a movie theater, an ice
skating rink, four sorority
houses, a GNC supercenter
and a library.

The new hyper-library is
being funded by a donation
left to the university by a
wealthy Texan alum.

“Thank God for Texas,”
Elrod said. “Because of the
alum’s donation, we won’t
have to worry about what to
name the hyper-library, un-
like that [expletive] science
building.”

University administration
has begun to work with the
architect in charge of design-
ing the new building to en-
sure that Leyburn Library’s
replacement will fit in with
the rest of campus.

“Columns: it has to have
lots and lots of columns,”
Elrod said.

Before it was destroyed,
certain essentials were re-
moved from Leyburn Library
and retained sothat they could
beinstalledinthe newlibrary.

“We kept those boss or-
ange chairs,” Dick Grefe, Se-
nior Reference Librarian,
said. “The students seem to
love those. We also kept all
our microfiche terminals be-
cause they remind me of in-
struments I see on ‘Star
Trek.”’

Nice rod, Dick:

for sake of esthetics

  

Photo by Bootsy Collins (actually, the mothership gave it to him)

Dick Grefe, Senior Reference Librarian, stands triumphantly over the
remains of Leyburn Library. The builing's demise was celebrated by all, as
was Grefe’s Viking costume, which he referred to fondly as “Wanda.”

The new hyper-library will
be more geared toward the
student and their needs.

“All of the fishbowls will
be outfitted with condom
machines and sliding covers
for the windows on the doors
so that students will better be
ableto,um,study,”Grefesaid.
“Also, we will install special
red light phones linked di-
rectly to professors’ offices to
allow students to call and
plead for extensions right

from the library.”

Grefe promises that the
new library will not stand
tallcrthanthestatueofGeorge
Washington.

“We’ve eliminatedalotof
need for space by throwing
away books and things that
no one ever uses,” Grefe said.
“We got rid ofall our texts on
British naval poetry. I never
read that crap: I don’t know
why anyone else would.”

Grefe does not seem too

concerned about the loss of
one ofthe campus’ buildings.

“Thewholethingwasslip-
ping into the Dell anyway,”
Grefe said. “Besides, it was
ugly. Between you and me, I
hear that the Woods Creek
Apartments will be the next
to go.”

The new library should be
completed some time after
you graduate, because that’s
the way these things always
work.

 

BY RASPUTIN

’ PHI DANGER SPECIALIST

Students who go to the front lawn
to “study” while they soak up the sun
will find some old friends waiting for
them.

The Earth Mounds, following their
interstellar travel to the far reaches of
outer space, have returned to campus
and reseated themselves in front of
Tucker Hall. Their visit has sparked
interest both on campus and in the
scientific community.

Havingleft without explainingthe
purpose for their trip, the Earth
Mounds claim they had a good rea-
son to go.

“We needed dates for FD,” Head
Earth Mound said. “Sure, there are
plenty of attractive, intelligent, fun
female Earth Mounds around here,
but let’s just say there are certain
‘advantages’ to taking an Earth
Mound from offcampus, ifyou know
what I mean.

“Besides, if the female Earth
Mounds want dates, they can find
plenty of physically-fit, well—man-
nered Earth Mounds over at Earth
Mound Military Institute who will
probably behave far more like gentle-
men than we ever would,” Head Earth
Mound said.

Unfortunately, the Earth Mounds
were detained in their travels, return-
ing too late to attend FD.

“We stopped at a Chinese restau-
rant outside of Sector 7,” Head Earth
Mound said. “They serve drinks to
just about anyone there. We would
have came back in time for FD, but

by the time I had my third ‘Volcano,’
I didn’t even know where I was.”

An official NASA spokesman, vis-
iting the campus to observe the be-
havior of the Earth Mounds, com-
mented on the significance of the
Earth Mounds’ return.

“What’s really incredible is that
they all returned to exactly the same
place,” Guy Withallyourtaxes said.
“These Earth Mounds had as much of
a: chance of returning to the same
exact spots from which they left as
Bob Dole had of getting elected,
which was not a very good chance at
all.”

Representing the administration
of Washington and Lee University,
President John Elrod expressed his
pleasure over the return of the Earth
Mounds.

“I am always glad when mem-
bers of another culture come to
our fine university,” Elrod said.
“I know the student body here is
about as culturally diverse as the
faculty.”

The Earth Mounds are pleased
with the interest they have gener-
ated.

“We’re hoping that they’ll
name the new science building
after us,” Head Earth Mound said.
“I think ‘The Big Earth Mound’
vslould make a lovely name for a
building.”

Unfortunately, the Earth
Mounds’ visit will not last for
long.

“We’ll have to leave by the end
of the semester,” the Earth
Mounds explained. “We won’t

have anything to eat then because
Food Services will make our Food
Debitaccountsdisappearlike Tom
Arnold’s career, never to be seen
again.”

At least some people on cam-

 wxouwels return Frowx outer space

pus will be happy to see them go.

“If they don’t leave soon, I’m
going to have to tow them all,”
Baner said. “And right after that,
I’m going to go get a real hair-
cut.”

I smell, and my socks don’t match:

Professor George Bent shows off his big, metal, gas-
powered tool. And he can’t play piano, either.

 

hoto courtesy of Mork from Ork

Frolernilg house mother
arrested for public nudilg

BY DIONNE WARWICK
PHI PSYCHIC CORRESPONDENT

Delta Tau Chi’s housemother Emerald Flame displayed her true
talents to the brothers Friday night. Known as the “most limber” house-
mother on campus, Flame proved her talents true and upheld her reputation.

When Washington and Lee security entered the basement of DTC
hoping to find illegal pledge hazing, they instead found Flame involved
in another form of fraternal bonding.

“She was involved in questionable acts. She has been known to have
a history of such activity” was all that Director of Security Mike Young
would say. ’

Flame has been arrested previously for indecent exposure after frolick-
ing nude on the front lawn of W&L. “She really added to the picturesque
landscaping,” Senior Richard Nutz said.

“I like to sunbathe nude, and those nasty bathing suit line are really
annoying,” Flame said when asked why she was clothed in such a fashion.

“Emerald is a very talented woman and does a lot for the fraternity,”
President John W. Elrod said when asked why she was kept on after her arrest.

Flame was escorted to Lexington City Jail where she is under the
personal custody of Police Chief W. F. Smith. She has not been charged.

Rita Fitz, a neighbor of the fraternity house, claims that Flame comes
and goes at rather strange times and “much too frequently in my opinion.”
Other neighbors state that Flame is known to frequent one house more
than any other— that of Police Chief Smith.

Before moving to Lexington, Flame lived in Amsterdam and Las
Vegas where she says she was finishing her education.

“Everyone here in Lexington is so nice to me,” Flame said, “My boys
are the best.”

Questions have arisen as to whether Flame will keep her job. “She is
a very caring housemother, and she’s hot,” Elrod said.

Flame has been in counseling for repressed sexuality and states that she
feels that she is getting better.

“I have so much support from the boys,” Flame said, “They want to see
me get better and are willing to help in any way that they can.”

Smith refused to comment saying that he felt that he did not know
enough about the situation. Flame feels she will receive the best treatment
while in Smith’s care.

The brothers of DTC feel that Flame is the best housemother they have
ever had.

“She won’t let us want for anything,” Tim said, “She will bend over
backwards to make us happy.”

Photo courtesy of Larry Flynt

Fly like a beagle:

Emerald Flame, Delta Tau Chi’s multi-talented
housemother, displays the ﬂexibility which has made her
a favorite in the house.

W&L campus switches
from Pepsi to Coke

BY THE CANADIAN PIRATE
PHI “EH” EXPERT

The event that's been more greatly anticipated than the return of
"Hollywood" Hulk Hogan has finally arrived——Washington and Lee
University has moved into the twentieth century by switching to Coca-
Cola.

Products bearing the Coca-Cola trademark will be available across
campus startingtoday. Students will no longer have to brave the dangerous
path which leads to the back ofthe science building construction site, or the
far more dangerous path which leads to Reid Hall to ﬁnd their beverage of
choice.

Taking a break from his busy touring schedule with the hit rock group
KISS, President "John John" Elrod commented on the University's deci-
sion.

"Why do you think we have so many deans, anyway?" Elrod said. "We
get paid to make this sort of command decision."

Responding to opposition to the change, Elrod Claimed that the two
beverages are very much alike and that fans ofone beverage should at least
sample the othe '.

"Coke and Pzpsi are like Lexington cousins," Elrod said. "Only their
mamas can tell them apart."

