  

. VOLUME NUMBER 16

GENERAL
NOTES

AUDITION FOR ONE ACTS:

The Theater Department will hold open auditions for The
Annual Festival of One Acts on Feb. 11 from 7-10 p.m. and
Feb. 12 from 4-6 p.m. in the Johnson Theatre. The One Acts,
directed by Adrienne Bryant, John Tissue, Phil Flickinger, Joe
Merlino and Helen Kim will run March 27-April 2.

For more information, call 463-8001.

SIGN UP FOR HOUSING:

If you are interested in University housing for 1997-98
school year, the housing process is now open. Applications
are available in Payne Hall #4 and are due by Feb. 14.

If you need more information about the process, a question
and answer session will be held on Feb. 5 at 7 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

LEYBURN GETS A BREAK TOO:

Leybum Library will be operating on a reduced schedule
during the February break. On Friday, Feb. 14 the library will
close at 6:00 p.m. On Saturday, the hours are 9:00 a.m. - 4:00
p.m.. For Monday-Friday, the hours will be 8:30 a.m. - 4:30
p.m.. On Saturday, Feb. 22 the library will be open 9:00 a.m.
- 4:00 p.m..

The library will resume its regular 24 hour schedule after
opening at noon Sunday, Feb. 23.

DOMESTIC VIOLENCE DISCUSSION:

On Thursday, Feb. 13, Dr. Kathleen Kenney and Ms. Lorri
Olan will present a workshop from the perspective of the
Christian Church on the problem of domestic voilence. The
workshop will take place at St. Patrick’s Catholic Church on
Nelson Street from 5-8 p.m..

The presentation will deal with how the church can react to
the problem of domestic violence. Members of all churches
and synagogues are invited to attend.

For more information, call Burr Datz at 463-3533 or Lorri
Olan at 463-7861.

GOOD MUSIC, A GOOD CAUSE:

Talented musicians including Mike Seeger, Larry Keel,
Carol Elizabeth Jones, Ginseng, wildShadow and many others
will be taking part in the seventh annual One Acoustic Evening
beneﬁt concert 7:30 p.m. Saturday in the Lenfest Center.
Admission for non-students is $5 and $3 for students. All
procedes will go towards alternative spring break opportuni-
ties for W&L students.

For more information concerning One Acoustic Evening,
please call 463-3533. Tickets will be available at the door.

CLEAN A RIVER BEFORE FD:

Since Rockbridge Area Conservation Council’s Annual
Clean—Up Day fell on the same day as FD, they moved the
event to the preceding weekend. On Saturday, March 8 from
9:15 a.m. - 12:30 p.m., students are invited to bring dates to
help clean-up the Maury River banks and ﬂood plains.

To take part in this effort to beautify the Rockbridge area,
meet an RACC representative in the parking lot of Tilson Real
Estate at 9:15 a.m. on Saturday, March 8. For more informa-
tion call, 463-3193.

LEARN TO EAT HEALTHY:

Lifestyle Information For Everyone and Women’s Forum
will sponsor a lecture entitled “Awaken A New Relationship
With Food” on 7:30 p.m. Monday, Feb. 3 in the Johnson
Theater of the Lenfest Center.

The speaker is Gail Robb-Todter, Ph.D. of The Dogwood
Institute, Charlottesville,VA. She will talk on how people can
shift perspectives to establish a healthier relationship with
food.

For more information, call the LIFE ofﬁce at 462-4045.

LEARN POLISH FOLK DANCING:

The Michas Polish Dance Ensemble will demonstrate
traditional folk dances and then teach students the steps on
Feb. 9 from 3-6 p.m. in the Johnson Theatre.

For more information, contact lntemational Club Vice
President Bill Overbaugh at 462-4718.

JOIN ORIENTATION COMMITTEE:

Applications for the Freshman Orientation Committee are
available in the University Center and are due on Feb. 12.

 

K

I

‘tive Imaging hosts Valentine’s Day

I.

I U112 ‘filing-tum lﬁlti

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

Celebration heightens awareness

Black administrator, faculty
member voice concerns

BY AARON FOLDENAUER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Two black Washington and Lee University staff mem-
bers believe that not enough is being done to promote
racial diversity on campus.

Associate Dean of Students Anece McCloud thinks
upper administrators are not putting enough effort into
recruiting minority students. Professor of History
Theodore DeLaney is disturbed by the lack of black
professors and the lack of effort to recruit them.

"Ihe coeducation of Washington and
Lee was very successful, as it should have
been,” said DeLaney, “but I don't believe
that the integration of Washington and Lee
has been an equal success.”

According to DeLaney, W&L’s effort
to integrate the campus has been weak
compared to the effort to admit women.
Black faculty can serve as role models for
all students and evidence reveals that more
black students would be attracted to W&L
if there were more black faculty
members, he said.

Approximately 35 black stu-
dents attend W&L. There are
four black students in this year’s
freshman class.

“I think that administrators
who are involved in determin-
ing the student population on
campus believe they are com-
mitted to admitting more Afri-
can-Americans,” McCloud said.
“Now there is a saying that ac-
tions speak louder than words.
There is something lacking.” ,

McCloud works with W&L’s black
students as the advisor to the Minority
Student Association.

“I would like to have as many African-
Americans as possible and mean it when
we say it,” she added. “Having a critical
mass of African-American students would
help black students adjust to the campus
and give other students a greater opportu-
nity to interact with African—American stu-
dents.” -

Both McCloud and DeLaney agree that more black

' faculty are needed to improve W&L’s atmosphere.

“We obviously have a bad situation as it stands now.
White students need to see black professionals just as
much as black students do,” DeLaney said. “What I
would like to see is the recruitment of well-qualiﬁed black
faculty become a carnpus-wide priority.”

While DeLaney is currently the only full-time black
professor, two black professors are teaching on one—year

 
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 



contracts while they are completing their Ph.D.s. W&L
attempts to recruit minority faculty but, given the small
pool of black Ph.D.s, it is difﬁcult, said Associate Dean of
the College Cecile West-Settle.

“We are very cognizant of the fact that we want to
expose our students to wide range of ethnic backgrounds,”
she said. “We always want to enrich the academic
atmosphere on campus - to bring students in touch with
other world views - but we are looking for qualiﬁcations
and teaching abilities.”

West-Settle added that the location
of W&L probably counts against its
efforts to recruit minorities.

’ DeLaney disagrees. “Given W&L’s

. reputation, blacks who want to im-

- prove their careers are not going to
worry much about the town.”

He acknowledges the market for

recruiting black Ph.D.s is very competitive, but
“if there is a real concerted effort, the results could
be better.”

A W&L alumnus, DeLaney emphasized that
he is here because he wants to be here. He is
treated well and has “great relationships” with
students and colleagues.

His advocacy for more black professors on
campus is partially derived from
speaking with a black perspective
student and her mother who thought
black faculty is important. That
student tumed-down W&L’s offer
of admission.

“I suspect that as openings oc-

cur, people are very conscious of

the need to recruit female professors,” DeLaney

said. “I’m not sure that the same consciousness

is at play when it comes to the recruitment of
minority faculty.” ‘

W&L can work in two areas to make the
campus more conducive to black students, ac-
cording to McCloud.

First, W&L can work inter-
nally by recruiting more black fac-
ulty and emphasizing diversity
which would help all students be
more respectful of blacks. Sec-

ond, contacts can be made off-

campus in order to sell the W&L
experience to more minority students.

While McCloud will continue to try to diversify
W&L, she doesn’t see many positive changes on the
horizon.

“There are realities and there are dreams,” she said.
“My dream is that things will begin to look up for
African-Americans at W&L... but I’m afraid that I
cannot be too optimistic about the future of African-
Americans here.”

 
  
 

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington, VA

FEBRUARY 3, 1997

 

Activities highlight
African-Americans

 MILLER
PHI STAFF WRITER

.» - Alittle laughter, a little music and a little thought
gwilli help Washingtonand Lee University students
“celebrate Blackl-Iistory Month. »
j. V The Minority Students Association (MSA)and
" tlietstudent Activities Office: are sponsoring come-
: diaii Andre Browne, reggae band D-KGB and musi-
' ‘ -V,oltage*Br”others during February.
has it described as “Sinbad meets
Iii;an‘1s , Ht? hﬁd a-small part in Eddie
Dis gt: l1éd=Gentleman”andperfonns__;,
 inatiori ﬁe willperforrn this}

 

   
 
    
 
  
 
   
 
  
  

o  ‘f‘ngton,D.,C. They willbe
»mate_I'ial. that is”-familiar to the casual‘ ‘
V, . .1Bob'Marley,;'Since they have dual {-
(I right rhythm section, their sound is a _'
ugher thanithet more traditional reggae. D-
perform in the GHQ ‘att9_ pm. Tuesday

 

o tagelirothers will perform in the old gym’ ’
_ ,p A _;pl%'§‘eb.,25,at 9 pm. The boys have been
 ’etheii$ince 11969, and sing a widerange of songs.

' * 'I’hefcelebration of Black History Month kicked
5' offon Ianuary 24,- by Yolonda King, eldest daughter
A’ tof. the iatte civil" rights leader Martin Luther King.
 PresidentNefertiti Phipps-Smith dedicated
:I:th¢ evening in {free Chapel to her father who recently
diedgflyerithpe summer he-recommended that she try »
have 'o_nejof- thefKing children ‘speak.

_ Ilwlasjust happy to have her here,” Phipps-Smith
j;sard_.._j"‘Her presence at week after the celebration of
 her father‘_s_birthday and a week before the start of
f:Biack'-“History Mouth ‘was incredible.” I

~ K_ing’f_ocused’on thechoice people have to be-
1_1ieve'_'Ain, Irer:»’fat_l)er"s; dream. g“I believe because I
ciioose:_tritbelieve,”fshe said. “Choice is a powerful
 rnakesi each life unique is the individual
J:;s’et Of'choices that We make.” , I I

 -Icing: received a degree ‘ in“ African, American
if Studieszand Theater from Smith College. Since then
F‘she’.has'~buiit*aicareer based on performance. King.
 in "Rob Reiner's “The Ghosts of Missis-
.;sippi”,.W,hich is in theaters now. ,

' I _ K.ing."s: visit received attention from local news
. stations.7Af.ter her speech she autographed books about

   
 

.; herlatef father aka reception in the W&L Alumni

Black History Month Series:
is diversity at W&L still just a dream?

Phi Reporter Aaron Foldenauer looks at student
perspectives in next week’s issue.

 

—-COMPILED BY Tom WADLow

P OPINION

Betsy Green redefines “The Rules.” From the Left
tt attacks Clinton's second inaugural address. C.E.

Miller considers implications of Phi debt .

P FEATURES

February offers a slew of activities
including appearences by Andre
Browne and The Have Notsl, s
well as Pudding Wrestling. Po i-

contest. “The Rules” helps you
find a man. Minister hikes trail for
homeless.

P SPORTS

W&L’s swimming teams have rough time this week-
,end in Cy Twombly Pool. Wrestling earns first
winning season since 1987. The Big Fan dis-

cusses the return of the old school coaches.

 

 

Photo courtesy of Hank Cosby
Seniors Hank Cosby, Amy Gorham and Jim Felton compete on
MSNBC’s “Remember This.”

Students ‘remember’
for game show prizes

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI STAFF WRITER

With a little help from Bill Gates and Al
Roker, three Washington and Lee Univer-
sity seniors may be on their way to winning
W&L $25,000 in scholarship money. Amy
Gorham, Jim Felton and Hank Cosby won
two out of four games last weekend on an
MSNBC game show for college students
called “Remember This.” In addition to
winning Microsoft software and having a
few big city adventures, the trio traveled
back to New York City this past weekend to
compete in the semi-ﬁnals for the money.

The game show, hosted by Al Roker,
aired on the Microsoft/NBC cable station,
delves out a myriad of questions dealing
with history, arts, sports and ﬁlm. The three
students said Roker was as friendly as he
seems on TV.

“They are a fun group and I’m glad that
they got to be on the show,” Roker said in an
e-mail interview. “Jim is quite the
character...Hank grew up on a farm and
Amy wants to be a ﬁnancial news reporter
on TV. Jim, well, let Jim be Jim.”

In his e-mail, Roker came across like a
true people person. “I enjoy the show for

just that reason - I love talking to people and
“Remember This” gives me a chance to do
just that.”

The three students were watching the
show a few weeks ago and realized that they
could answer most of the questions. A week
later, they were winners themselves.

“On the way up to New York we studied
from this book that has the front page head-
lines from the New York Times from the

past 100 years," Gorham said. “We were
studying about Martin Luther King’s assas-
sination in the car, and we were able to
answer the question really quickly when we
had a question on it on the show.”

Although the competition was steep and
the pressure was on, the three friends were
confident. “We were jumping up and down
when we won,” Felton said. “We waited
until the cameras went off us and we did
little dances like the wave and the sprin-
kler.”

Of course, there was a little play mixed
in with all of that mind-taxing, game show
work. MSNBC put them up at The Double
Tree Suites, a luxurious hotel overlooking
Times Square. When they thanked the
MSNBC guest coordinator who made the
reservation, his response was, “Sorry, I ran
out of cardboard boxes.”

And to dispel all those myths that people
meet movie stars when they go to New
York, Gotham, Felton and Cosby only saw
“Friends” star Matthew Perry in a posh
establishment called Au Bar, where the
company was impressive and a bottle of
water costs $15. “We didn’t go up to meet
him because of what happened with Chris
O’DonneIl getting swarmed at the Parents
Weekend tailgate,” Gotham said.

The three plan on holding up a sign in
front of the ‘Today Show” window this
Monday to promote the show, and maybe
for a little more air time.

Tune in to MSNBC, channel 40, next
Saturday and Sunday at 7:30 p.m., to see
Gotham, Felton and Cosby show a New
York game show how we do it in Lexing-
ton.

 
     

Women plan improvements

BY TARAH GRANT
PHI News EDITOR

Lack of a women’s studies program, the
present women’ s center facilities and a male
biased judicial system are the top concerns
of Washington and Lee University women,
according to attendees of last Thursday
night’s Women’s Forum.

Forty-one women attended the meeting?“
held in the University Center. Treasurer"

Katie Moore, who believes that W&L
women are “obviously not treated that well,”
wants women to voice their concerns and
then improve the situation. She. opened
forum by asking attendees, “What_=pisses
you off?”  
Sophomore Erin Kraal started the r
cussion by commenting on the proposal f

a new Women’ s Center. The proposal letter.-

explains that the current Women’ 5 Center
“clearly unsatisfactory” and un ‘er
womenarein “dire need”ofadequat
ties. Kraal believes the administration wi
respond that women do not use the curren
facilities, and, therefore, do not need mor

None of the Women’s Forum meeting
this year were held in the current Women’
Center in the basement of the University
Center or in the Women's Suite in Gaines.

Kraal then volunteered to organize ac-
ti_vities to be held in the suite.

   
     
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 

Next, attendees discussed the possibility
of founding a women's studies program.

“Ireallywanttotakeafeminismcourseand
we just don’t have it,” Kendra Archer said.

Sarah Meldrum explained this was a
goal of Women’ s Forum last year, however,
when they conducted a survey to promote
the idea, some professors responded with
“extremely derogatory comments."

’  t Archer volunteered to ﬁnd professors to

teach classes on women’s issues.

The final discussion of the evening cen-
tered on how the university handles crimes
against women. “Males receive worst pun-
ishment for vandalism than for sexual as-
sault,” Junior Cathy Haddock said.

 Moore pointed out that it would be con-
dered an honor violation if a rape victim
' amed other women about a particular
male. The university policy is students
pn’,t discuss a Student Conduct Commit-
issue”.

Women’s Forum hopes to address this
pic in-depth at aC1ime Bill informational
meeting on March 25. The officers believe
W&L is not following the correct proce-
dures whenhandlingcrimes againstwomen.

They plan to invite “administrators who

might be best educated by the presenta-
tion,” said Moore.

Thenext meeting willbe intheWomen’s
Suite, Gaines 305, at 6:30 p.m. Feb. 11.

«SCC reverses decision

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI STAFF WRITER

A change in witness testimony prompted
the Student Conduct Committee to reverse
their Jan. 14 decision to automatically sus-
pend a Washington and Lee University
sophomore male. The student was charged
with trespassing, verbal intimidation and
harassment. The infraction occurred in
November and was alcohol related.

The witness did not necessarily reverse
his or her testimony, SCC member Paul
Saboe says. Although Saboe cannot reveal
the nature of the testimony, he did say that
a ruling could be reversed if the witness
merely changed the testimony in mood in
tone.

The student appealed to the University
Board of Appeals after the SCC’s decision
to suspend the student Winter Term and
institute social probation and restriction
from a particular dorm Spring Term. The
student now can remain at school, but must
perform 45 hours of community service.
The SCC held to its original ruling of dorm
probation and social probation for the re-
maining year. The student will remain on

conduct probation through the 1998 Spring
Term.

Saboe says that SCC members keep their
“eyes and ears” open for probation infractions.
If, for example, a member sees this student at
FD, or even at the “General’s Monkey,” he
will be automatically suspended from school.

The SCC has taken the matter of con-
duct more seriously this year. resulting in
more hearings and stricter penalties, Saboe
says. The committee is also paving the way
for the new Student Judicial Committee,
which some predict will have as much
power as the Executive Committee. Some
students feel it would have too much power.

“We’re adults now, and we don‘t need
people to tell us how to act,” Junior Justin
Riedell said. “Idon’tthinkthatwe shouldhave
a committee watching over our shoulders.”

However, Saboe says that the new SJC
will in fact curb the SCC’s power. Cur-
rently, when an appeal is made, it is turned
over to the University Board of Appeals for
review. The Board can only advise the
SCC, but the committee can act on its own.
When an appeal is made to the new SJ C, the
University Board of Appeals can oppose
the SJC verdict.

“Hypothetically, the SCC could accuse

  

PAGE 2

OPINION

  

FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Clinton’s address falls short of expectations

“You are questioning Bubba?,” a dis-
belief-stricken Republican friend recently
asked me when I offered my critical ap-
praisal of Clinton’s Inaugural Address.
But I certainly have the right to do so;
while I am a liberal and a Democrat, the

From the Left
Laura Knapp ’99

combination of the two does not auto-
matically or necessarily make me a com-
plete and utter “Clintonophile.” I do be-
lieve that Clinton was the best choice
this pastNovember (especially when con-
sidering the other candidates) but that
distinction does not put him above re-
proach. I concede that Clinton definitely
has a long road ahead if he even dreams
to secure a positive legacy for himself.
He definitely stumbled on his first step
with his less—than—auspicious Inaugural
Address. However, Clinton’s problems

are indeed the same as those of modern
leadership — a success in recognizing
the problem but a failure to propose a
way to go about solving it.

In his firstinaugural address, Franklin
Roosevelt promised “A new deal for the
American people,” and inadvertently set
a precedent that would be evident even in
Clinton’s address. FDR used this first
speeches a way to quell the fears of the
Depression-struck Americans. While it
identified the problem of mass unem-
ployment and wide-spread poverty, the
speech did not set forth a clear plan of
action.

The same can be said for Clinton’s
address. However, given the track record
from his first administration,Clinton will
never achievethe same degree ofsuccess
as FDR. Clinton needed to clear and
forceful, qualities that will be essential
for the next four years while waging a
fight for change against unrelenting Re-
publican congressmen. Instead, his

speech is replete with breezy, insubstan-
tial verbiage, invoking only half-hearted
patriotism and profound puzzlement

“The Amrican
people elected
Clinton to lead,
not to fall back

into the ranks

with the general
citizenry. ”

about what the future might hold.
Clinton uses lofty phrases like
“Guided by the ancientvision ofa prom-

ised land, let us set our sight upon a land
of new promise,” and conjures Utopian-
Sequa visions like, ‘‘In this new land,
education will be ever citizen’s most
prized possession. Our schools will have
the highest standards the world, igniting
the spark of possibility in the eyes of
every girl and boy. . .Our streets echo
again with the laughter of our children,
because no one will try to shoot them or
sell them drugs anymore.”

While all that he does say sounds
wonderful and desirable, Clinton does
not offer any specific measures of HOW
to go about achieving such dreams. He is
setting the American people’s standards
too high and disappointment is thus in-
evitable.

Clinton states that “Government is
not the problem and government is not
the solution. We — the American people

—- are the solution.” Yet again, exactly
HOW we are the solution and what ex-
actly we can do is left to our own imagi-

nations. ,

The American people elected Clinton
to lead, not to fall, back into ranks with
the general citizenry. It appears as though
our president does not even possess an
inkling of HOW the problems he so art-
fully outlined could or will be solved.
Clinton’s “Bridge to the 21st Century”
looks something like the overpass in
“Speed” —- dangerously incomplete and
desperate for a miracle.

However, in the tradition of l0-step
programs, recognition of the problem is
always the first and most important step.
The problems facing the United States
are age-old. Every president and genera-

tion of American since FDR have '

grappled with them, all with varying
degrees of success. So my often harsh
analysis should be tempered with the
understanding that there is only so much
a president can do.

  
  
 

and

lies izlenf Cl mien
pme nT 3I'IuP$ _
rcsl?-lcitons on

alcohol
0wl\/e|"l'i5x'n3.

ahciﬂaaczo

 
  
      


 

"I"°STCl'ur-ilnling

 

 

7%

Make your own rules: W&L style

I have found yet another rea-
son to love Washington and Lee.
Our bookstore has put the book
The Rules in the humor section.

‘For those of you who aren’t fa-

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

I miliar with the book, it is a best-
 selling guide for women on how
: to snag and marry a man. It is
‘ also one of the stupidest books I

have ever seen. Among the rules
the book lists are, “Don’t call a
man and rarely return his phone
calls,” “Don’t live with a man or
leave your things at his house,”
“Never accept a weekend date

after Wednesday,” and consider-
ably more vague advice such as
“Be a creature unlike any other.”
The basic premise of the book is
that if you act like you don’t like
a man, he will fall at your feet
and beg you to marry him. Ap-
parently the women who wrote
this book have never met the guys
I know.

Besides the many things that
are wrong with The Rules, they
really don’t at all apply to life as
we know it here at W&L. One of
the more obvious examples of that
is the not accepting a date rule. A
date? What’s that? There is a
chapter of the book devoted to
helping college age women, with
advice that made me laugh aloud,
such as, ‘Be sure to study. Re-

Sports Editors ....................... ..

 

dent.

and obscenity.

@112 ‘ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

Executive Editor ........................... ..
Managing Editor ........................... ..
News Editor .................................. ..
Assistant News Editor ................... ..
Editorial Page Editor ..................... ..

................................... ..Anne Aivord
.............................. ..Hillary Coombs
................................... ..Tarah Grant
.................................. ..Tom Wadlow
................................. ..Jason Zacher
.Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman
................................. ..David Baisley
................................. ..Andrea Ewing
.............................. ..Mark Slomiany

Features Editor ............................ ..
Assistant Features Editor ............. ..
Photographer ............................... ..

............... ..NeaI Kohl, Blake Lovelace
................................ ..Rebecca Cuny

Business Managers ...................... ..
Advertising Assistant .................... ..

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Fund-
ing for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum
Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters,
columns. and “My Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

member, smart is sexy.” Yep,
that’s exactly what I’m thinking
when I pick up my Spanish book:
damn, I’m sexy. More impor-
tantly, the entire focus of the book
is not only on finding a man, but
getting him to marry you. I imag-
ine that most people who come to
W&L are not planning on getting
married any time soon (I know I
wasn’t, in spite of the fact that I
have now chosen my china pat-
tern).

But Valentine’s Day is coming
soon, not to mention Fancy Dress.
Who wouldn’t appreciate a little
help in finding a guy? Which is
why this week, I’m making my
own rules.

1. Decorate your room to
impress men. When he drops
by, he’ll be way impressed to see
some clay skeet pigeons peeking
out from your closet and a thing
of Skoal on your bedside table. It
might also be a good idea to have
a copy of the Victoria’s Secret
catalog in plain view. You don’t
have to actually own anything in
it, but he’ll stay with you for
months waiting for you to sur-
prise him with a black lace
bustier. Better still, set a copy of
the’ Jenny McCarthy Playboy
video on top of you VCR. You can
tape Melrose Place over it; it
doesn’t matter. All you really need
is the case. He’ll either hang out
because he likes being around
Jenny or because he thinks you’re
bisexual. Either way, you win. If
he ever asks you why you have it,
say something vague like, “I like
to work out to it.” He’ll be putty in
your hands.

2. Spend as much time at
his place as possible. Those
otherRules suggest you play hard
to get and make him come to you.
They are obviously missing the
great bonuses of spending as
much time at his place as pos-
sible. You’ll never have to clean
your room, since you’ll never be
there. Free fraternity house
lunches will save you a fortune.
And even if you don’t like this
particular guy that much, if he

lives with a bunch of other guys,
you might hit it off with one of
them.

3. Be sure to drink. Drunk
is sexy. The advice that other
book gave about how you should
study and be smart is good and
all, but guys really like to drink.
Why not associate yourself with

“Why not
associate
yourself with
one of their

favorite
hobbies?”

one of their favorite hobbies?
Later on you can impress him
with your knowledge of the Peri-
odic Table of Elements. . . after
you get his attention by slam-
ming some J agermeister.

4. Special Rules for Date
Functions: Anywhere from one
to two weeks from a date func-
tion, hook up with as many guys
as possible. Chances are, one of
them will ask you. Now, I know
that “hooking up” is a pretty
vague term, and that it can mean
anything from kissing to some-
thing involving a trapeze. All I
can say is that the more inclusive
your definition of hooking up is,
the better your chances. Sure,
people might talk about you after
you hook up with the entire wres-
tling team, but people might talk
about you if you didn’t go to FD,
too. This way at least you get a
tea-shirt out of the deal.

5. Final Rule: Be yourself.
The other Rules are trying to
keep you from appearing to be
man crazed, slutty, and desper-
ate. But if you are man craze,
slutty, and desperate, then go
with it! Best of luck—and have
fun.

Sometimes the
best publications .
make mistakes

It is scandalous and outragous
to think that one person was
given enough power to do so much
damage. Mr. Hershey didn’t just
lose $4,000 he damaged the repu-
tation of our newspaper. What is
he guilty of ? Not doing his job.
That’s right. He just didn’t do his

Life on the Hill
C. E. Miller ’98

job. The Publications Board
couldn’t do anythingbut ﬁre him,
and he actually resigned before
that happened.

I don’t know Mr. Hershey per-
sonally and I don’t mean this to
be a personal attack. There are
several-problems with this whole
situation that don’t involve Mr.
Hershey’s neglect of his duties.

First, where are the checks
and balances in this system? I
want to know why nobody no-
ticed before local merchants be-
gan to close accounts that thePhi
was broke. If a student writes a
bad check, the Cold Check Com-
mittee goes into action.

The check is covered, the stu-
dent notified and the situation
resolved. This system allows the
students of Washington and Lee
University to write checks in
Lexington without showing
three pieces of I.D. and turning
over rights to his first-born. It
doesn’t work that way in my
hometown. Check-writing is a
very painful and tedious pro-
cess, often only used when the
bill comes for those 10 CD’s for
the price of one deal.

The account was $1400 over-
drawn. Wow, if I did that at my
bank, I think I would be arrested.
No kidding. I received threaten-
ing phone calls for a month when
I was $15.32 overdrawn.

The loss in advertising rev-
enue is perhaps the worst blow
of all. The Phi is not an indepen-
dent newspaper. The Phi does
rely on money from the execu-
tive committee, but its advertis-
ing revenue gives The Phi free-
dom to improve the paper be-
yond the basic four-page color-
less edition that was put out last
week. It allows the freedom to
use excess funds to purchase
badly needed equipment, and

many hours they put into their
jobs.

I want to compliment the Pub-
lications Board on the quick and
decisive action that was taken as
soon as the problem was discov-
ered. Darcey Livingston did a
fabulous job fixing the mess cre-
ated by Mr. Hershey’s neglect.

Now a more serious note. I
was almost embarrassed that our
scandal was aired in The Trident
it was if thePhi ignored the prob-
lem so no one would find out
about it.

I will not make any accusa-
tions but still I feel it should
have been covered here first. To
allow a rival paper to air our
dirty laundry is wrong. Much
respect could have been earned
if thePhi had owned up to its
problems. ‘ ii

I am not an editor any
longer, so I don’t have say in
what goes in or out of the pa-
per that I write for. If my edi-
tors think I am attacking them
in a large part they are right.
the Phi has a reputation
among the professors and the
community as being the place
to get the news.

We don’t print pictures of
butts on the front page, we
don’t allow our columnists to
continually attack the same
organization, and we don’t ca-
ter to those who want easy
reading.

If thePhi is going to main-
tain that reputation we need
to own up to our own prob-
lems. This is not the opinion
of the editorial staff of this
paper. This is my opinion as a
former editor, and a devoted
journalist.

Everyone on campus knows
that The Trident is a great
student newspaper. It is how-

ever different from the Phi.

We have 99 years of tradition
behind us, and there are ex-
pectations for our behavior. I
think this time the Phi let
down these expectations.

We hired a business man-
ager who didn’t do his job,
and nobody noticed. The local
merchants are very forgiving,
I hope we can keep that re-
spect after this.

I like writing for thePhi, I
stand up for it, but in stand-
ing up for it I need to call it as

compensate our editors for the

     
  
 

 

I see it--bad or good.

aiiieaers-totheeditor! 

‘Tuirnl all submissionsin to the University Center:
 ° F  Send them to: ' ‘

. Editor C _ 3
The Ring-tum,Phi  - A
Washington and Lee,Univ”ersity j*I_
Lexington. VA..24i45_0i*e I I I

_ or  them to: A
  , j,zache'r@wlu._edu"  g

 

 

 

 
 
 

b

 

 

 

FEBRUARY 3, 1997

BY DAVID _BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Are you frustrated?
Bored? Ready to make a
change in your life? Forget
the Psychic Hotline, a num-

; ber of events guaranteed to

relieve yourwinterdoldrums
grace the W&L Entertain-
ment calendar for the month
of February.

Comedian Andre Browne
will appear on Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 4, at 9 p.m. in the GHQ.
The Entertainment calendar
describes Browne as a cross
between Sinbad and Robin
Williams, although Browne
would describe himself as
“just plain silly.” Browne
has appeared in national col-
lege campus tours as well as

in Eddie Murphy’s “Distin-
guished Gentleman.”
Browne’s comedic perfor-
mance is one ofseveral Black
History Month events sched-
uled for February.

If you enjoy the improvi-
sational humor of The
General’s Monkey, go see
The Have Nots! on Friday,
February 7, at 8 p.m. in the
Johnson Theater. The Have
Nots! consistsof a ﬁve-mem-
ber improvisational comedy
troupe. According to the
group’s press release, “the
show is a fast paced interac-
tive adventure into what the
company can make up right
before your eyes.”

Sandy Katz, a reviewer for
Charleston’s Free Time, de-
scribes the members of The
Have Nots! as “talented funny,

funny ﬁne comedic perform-
ers.” Katz adds, “This entire
troupe has a refined quality
you see among the best enter-
tainers.”

The Friday’s! Committee
is sponsoringThe Have Nots!
performance. Robert Taylor,
Press Chair for The Friday’s!
Committee, commented that
the show exemplifies the
committee’s new program-
ming. According to Taylor,
the committee’s new pro-
gramming is more geared to
the type of entertainment
whichstudentsindicatedthey
wanted to see.

Take advantage of the ac-
tivitiesandeventstakingplace
on campus this week. You
don’t need to be psychic to
know that you’ll have a
good time.

Photo courtesy of Student Activities Office

  
 

 

Andre Browne will appear tomorrow in the GHQ.

SAB exp/ores alternative USCS of pudding

i.r..;I.;‘,.....si 

BY ERICA PROssER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Think that desert and the WWF don’t
mix? Think again. The Student Activities
Boardwillsponsorchooolatepuddingwres-
tling Feb. 12 at 8:00 p.m. in the Student
Pavilion. One maleandone female,orone
team of each sex will win two tickets to the

Fancy Dress concert.

Hollis Leddy, president of the SAB,
said thatthisideaisn’t new: the SAB puton
asirnilarevent two yearsago. Theoriginal
idea came from a student interviewing for
the SAB who mentioned that her high
school had a pudding wrestling competi-
tion. The event is supplied by a company
called RTA. They make all the pudding,
which is totally edible, themselves. The

company offersachoice between pudding
andJell-O wrestling, butinordertowrestle
in Jell-O, the school would have to pro-
vide 140to 160 poundsof ice, Leddy said.

The event is open to all students, fac-
ulty, and staff. Participants must sign a
contract and adhere to a dress code: at
least shorts and tee-shirts worn by both
men and women. Men will only wrestle
men,andwomenwillonlywrestlewomen.

Participants can decide to go tag-team or
solo. An emcee will introduce the wres-
tlers, and a referee will determine the win-
ners.

“It’ll be a lot of fun,” I_eddy said.
“People really get into it. There wasa huge
student response last time, and we’re ex-
pectingahuge turnout againthis year.”All
potential participants must sign up in front
of the Co—op Feb. 3-6. Admission is free.

Positive moging otters Vo entinels Dog contest

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

describes why V H 9 A _
..heart .is a Timeless. Bea. 

Attention men: if your heart
is set on surprising yourigirlé
friend with a special token, if
affection this,Va1enti‘ne’s Day

 

Owens, the ownertof Posi
tive Imaging, is hostingian essay
contest for boyfriends and ‘hu;-_,
bands on the Washington and
Lee campus and in Rockbridge
County. The contest requires

entrants to submit an essay to-
taling ﬁfty words or lesswhich v~ ‘

- a;‘.‘Tirneless Beauty’,f?'.,:0iVl/lens

 ,réé1s_,gz_h ,t_;§:hé‘ia’;isv_ye; ta ‘ this 
‘question ehtaiis moreithanl j:ust_  ,
adescription ofyourgirlfriend’s * 2
physical beauty. According to

6

:.‘your3”lsv

  

k

  

Owens, all women possess in-

  

“l’ve gotten quite a few
phone calls from people who

mailedorhand-delivered to Posi-
tive lmagingat 13 1/2W. Nelson

PAGE 3

BY ANDREA EwINO
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Go into the woods.

Reverend Kenneth Patrick of
Trinity United Methodist Church
of Lexington went “into the woods”
when hehikedtheAppalachianTrail
to raise money for a homeless shel-
ter in Roanoke.

Patrick was the Chairman ofthe
Board for Roanoke Area Ministr'e
when the decision was m,_ade"It‘ha,_
day shelter for the ho ' _ i
needed. An ev,e_ning shelter ex-

lic Church w
could be locat
able. How
great need

inidler ecu/ed /tome

OI” ./tétée Oz A0]/YLQ Q55

   
     
  
 
 
 

Mail dropping is a process
that provides hikers with food
and other supplies. The trail
generally comesnear a town ev-
ery 5-7 days, and here the hiker
goes into town, gets a cheap ho-
tel room and a good meal and
goes to the post office where a
package awaits him. The hiker
has mailed to himselfthe articles
he believes he will need. The
package arrives at the post office
ked Hold for Hiker” with
_me. The post of-
towns are used to

  
   
  
  
   
  
     
     

flt doesn’t have to be ‘she
as great legs’ or ‘she has a
TtripleDbra,”’Owenssaid. “lt’s
 2 ' rite about that inside
That’s my concept:

don’tidentifythemselves,ask-
ing about where and how to
drop offsubmissions,” Owens
said.

Owens is pleased with the
entries which have already
been submitted. Referring to

 

A thelentries which she has re-_:
ncey gdthe inner beauty, ceived, Owens said, “They are

Street. Entries should also in-
clude the entrant’s name and
phone number. The deadline for
the contest is Wednesday, Feb-
ruary 12, at 5 p.m. The winner
will be announced on Thursday,
February 13, at noon, in time for

 the winning boyfriend to award
_ hislucky girlfriendwith herprize.

Why not enter? With cre-

: the outside” is easy, it’s just a cute; they get an A for effort;
V ‘ but l’m hoping someone will
Both students and residents get really creative.”
ofRockbridge County have re-
sponded to the essay contest.

Entries forthe contest should
be neatly printed or typed and

ativity (and possibly a little help
from Cupid), you could win a
special Valcntine’s Day for
your girlfriend.

/7: /7yr5 rniznptutrs strps igr snagging I3 husband

BY ANNE ALVORD
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

I’ll be honest. My luck with men lately
hasbeenlessthan plentiful. Not thatldon’t
have men chatting me up: it just never
seems to go anywhere good. Iwas talking
to a friend of mine about it a few weeks
ago. She said she’s more or less in the
sameboat. But she wastakingaction. She
bought The Rules: Time-tested Secrets
for Capturing theHeart ofMr. Right, and
recommended it to me. So I borrowed it
and read it.
The authors of The Rules, Ellen Fein
and Sherrie Schneider, explain that The
Rules began as a “secret underground”, a
network of women helping women. The
catch was that because the network was
entirely through word of mouth, some
women were getting The Rules wrong.
Fein and Schneider decided to write the
rules down, so there would be no
more mistakes.
At first, l found it nothing short of

ridiculous. “Rule #2: Don’t Talk to a
Man First (and Don’t Ask a Man to
Dance.” “Rule #12: Break Up With
Him if He Doesn’t Buy You a Roman-
tic Gift forYour Birthday orValentine’s
Day.” “Rule #20: Be Honest But
Mysterious.” That’s just a sample.

I was reminded of my grandmother,
and her own personal set of rules that
she passed on to my mother and to me.
The man you marry has to be two years
older than you, she says, and he has to
be the exact height which allows your
head to rest perfectly on his shoulder.

I quickly realized that The Rules
was written for women who are a lot
more desperate than l am. There are
chapters, for example, on how to write
and answer personal ads. Plus, the
overall theme of the book is how to get

a man to marry you. I quote from Rule
#32: Don’t Break the Rules, “...The Rules
is not a hobby, but a religion. We keep
doing The Rules until the ring is on our
finger!” ln answer to the question “Will
he still marry me if I break The

x

 

 

gﬁwdﬂamgl ,
1 xciting and iarding summer job?

   

 

Rules?” the answer, “Maybe yes, but
probably no.”

The Rules don’t apply to me, or to
most W&L women, on the grand scale
(for more on this, see “GreenLand”, page
2), but the book isn ’t worthless. There are

some valid points that we need to be
reminded of. The essence of the message
isthis: beconfident, take care of yourself,
and remember you don’t need a man.
Know who you are, and the rest
comes naturally.

    

Fred “Chico” Lager and friends enjoy a bowl of ice cream.

Photo by Mark Slomrany

UVVVVVUVVVQUVUUUVUVVVUVUVVVV

Pretty Woman ’
v This Valentines Day Show her just how special she IS.
\\’/in her a 1/2 Day of Beauty Pampering‘. V
v In 50 words or less dcscribclwhy your sweetheart is :1 Timeless .
icauty.
. ‘liiclutles facial. body treritiircnt. hand or foot tre.ItInenI and nI;Ikc—IIp :Ipplit':tIiOn. .

Deliver entries to: Positive lniaging. 13 1/ 2 W . Nelson St, Lexington VA 24430. lnclutle entrants Q
mme and phone number. Entries must be received by February 12. 5:00 pm. \\"inner \\'Ill be

the shelter.

At the ti
the ministe
MethodistC
church wit '
munity ministr
to hike the A
(A.T.) to rais
RoanokeArea
House.

 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   

 

He desert es the trip as a “com-
munion with nature. It was a long
extended retreat.” Ajournal,spiri- Hiker.” The name derived
tual diary, and poetry all resulted from the reason for Patrick’s
from Patrick’s experience. “ l never trip.
really had time to write poetry be- Rev. Patrick raised ap-
fore,” Patrick said, “This trip pro- proximately $20,000 for the
vided the Opportunity to make a RAM Housein Roanoke. “Dif-
spiritual journey.” ferent companies and individu-
PatricksaystheA.T.was2,149.5 als donated the money,”
miles the year he hiked it. The Patrick said, “But, I was not
length of the trail changes from the only one trying to raise
year to year, but there is now a set money.” Patrick did more
general corridor. White blazes 2x6 than others. His story raised
inches mark the A.T. These blazes publicity and awareness when
are generally at eye level and lo- it ran in local papers.
cated on either trees or sometimes Injuries suffered on the
rocks. “ln Vermontthetrail passes trail slowed Patrick. “At one
beside an old junk yard,” Patrick point I was caught in a ter-
states, “The blaze was located on rible thunder storm, and the
the fender of an old car.” Hikers lighting struck the frame of my
find their way by following these backpack electrocuting me. I
, marks. lost my sight and hearing for
Three—walled shelters can be several days.” In Maine, Patrick
found intermittently on the A.T. also suffered broken ribs in the
They offer no heat, food or electric- last days of the trek.
ity but do provide shelter from the Patrick finished the AT in 5
elements. Generally hikers camp monthsdespiteinjuries,butmore
beside the trail. important is the reason.

name. ‘‘I was the Homeless

11:91:16‘ Sul7MIyOJ)®tSunifntJ,Rot1sIed Omen Ems! tbgl. nan (St). Imsiseet I591. Vewie Deire" 1391.

Hanisgouaq ~TurkeyBrust&HamIso
TurkeyBreasti4p-Roast Beefisgovegge De|ite"'(an
Roasttedchleken Breast tea-subway0|ub'Iso

 
 
  

* d lmorfdommriterl

suawaw

http://www.subway.com
-71 109'.‘ DItctor'sr\ssOci:Itcs Inc.

 
  

Elms!UlIIu(5gI,uﬂltllte13(ln$il4«]lt1qIIl\l¢tI!i\gIoS1wIildru|lIsdl
tvihtauttmtmdmmumglqmmmoeswilesgampenour,udaives,uxlwItt-marhoneuzumIuIaI..q.,mwImuJ,tunt3qruwsdtauteupal(X!gwm=nIdIeiju,uddninkr
' .' ' ' ‘A ' r A - u

ItnI'.i0‘ad(‘ ‘ hmrner... ISTWW
.-\I l‘.IrIicIp.IIIn_I: Storr-.~.

  

 

notified February 13 by 12:00 pm.

     
     
       

at we would like 0 talk with you about thepossibility of working _ g I I V _ . g . I ‘ d , S; , 10% ”
us  "  ° .. I
viewing on campus February 5. To arrange an Interview or get Q Ufcldﬁe 71 - W -- * - ‘ ‘    
an application, check at the Career Development Office. Ques— . Polsitive ‘Expenence Beauty from the Inside Out" 0
tions? Call (303) 838-1950 or e—maIl us at abararanch@aol.com.  .
Ar F Buy any regularly priced 6" or Get  of? any regularly
. ooﬂongsub and geta21oz.drink aridany pri Footlong sub.
Spend your summer in the ,,,g,sg,g,,s,,,,b,go,snaMps,0,
Take It All Off Colorado Rockies I"S*$10°"'°t°-
' before heading south for Winter break.
(Your unwanted hair. that is.) Experience the outdoors and help create memo- °"°"°°“‘“'°“"‘3"”°’ °"“°°"""°“"'3’."’°’
, Expeﬁencebfuihlesfhhalr;¢;movql0y;it;1i:ch;ﬁ:1;ll::l;”::l£i‘§;::l:“:2;eavailable" ries at the King Mountain Ranch Resort. For §;:f,;:;”;';$ﬁ§“,,j“,3;”;gF;§i §;:_°:;,'g:;;:‘,!;*,:*,;*,;';“;,-;',;;;:
611 on 53 OTB. - _ . . - Iiﬂdlﬂﬂwﬁmﬂﬂ! ‘ lend! "l ' ‘
4' P .t. e an application and our summer job openings, '°""°‘ "" ""‘”""“"“""""“""""""“""‘
0S1 1V “Experience Beauty from the Inside Out" Call   01' e-mail us at 
Imaging hosts@kingranchresort.com
13 1/ 2 W. Nelson St. Lexington VA 24450 5401463-6662

    

  

MBAaxzrMu.-

WBuxrrnu.L-

Wnna1'Lmo-
Iru>oox'I‘iuucx-

Generals in action this week:

Wednesday vs. Virginia Wesleyan, 7:30 p.m.;
Saturday vs. Eastern Mennonite. 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday vs. Eastern Mennonite. 7:00 p.m.:
Thursday at Hollins. 4:00 p.m.;

Saturday vs. Randolph-Macon. 2:00 p.m.
Sunday at Va. State Championships. 9:30 a.m.
Saturday at Virginia Tech Invitational

«PAGE 4

BASKETBALL,

S

Swimming squads look to
recover after tough weekend

Men split pair of
meets; women’s
team drops both

BY SUZANNE SCOTT
PHI STAFF WRITER

It was a disappointing week-
end for the Washington and Lee
women’sswim—

The loss to Mary Washing-
ton was a discouraging 122-68.
Freshman Brooke Stanley set a
new record of 25.28 seconds in
the 50-yard freestyle event. This
lone triumph was not enough to
bring the Generals to victory.

The previous night, the
women lost a tough meet to
Sewanee, 105-100. Sophomore
Margaret Hoehl led the team by
capturing three events.

The men’s swimming team
fared a little

mingteam.The
Generals lost
Friday night
to Sewanee
and Saturday

 

better. TheGen-
erals defeated
Sewanee, 115-
90, on Friday
night, but fell

afternoon to
Mary Washington

in Cy
Twombly Pool. ’

to Virginia ri-
val Mary Washington Saturday
afternoon with a final score of

114-83. Senior Nathan Hottle
and junior Steve Brigance each
took three events Friday. Fresh-
man Jared Fribush and Brigance
were victorious Saturday in the
50 and 100—yard events, respec-
tively.

Of Saturday’s meet, Fribush
said, “We didn’t do as well as
we would have liked to have
done. Probably because we were
tired from last night’s meet
against Sewanee.”

The women’s team is 7-6 in
dual meets with one more left to
go. Its next meet will be on
February 11 at 6:30 p.m. at
Hollins.

The men’s team is 7-4 in dual
meets this season. Its next meet
will be at the SCAC Invitational
on February 20.

(I112 ﬁling-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

SWIMMING,

WRESTLING,

Publicity Photo
W&L went 1-3 at Cy Twombly Pool this weekend.

INDOOR TRACK

MBABKZTBAIJ. -
WBAsxz'nMu. -
Mswnnmvo -
Wswnnuno -
Wu.s11.mo -

Last week's results:

L. 87-59. at Hamp.-Syd.: L. 83-81 (OT). at Gullford
W. 63-55. vs. RMWC: L. 78-52. at Gullford

W. I15-90. vs. Sewanee: L. II4-83. vs. Marywash.
L. I05-100. vs. Sewanee: L. 122-68. vs.MaryWash.
W. 34-22. vs. Swarthmore:

L. 28-18. vs. Western Maryland;

L. 44-3. vs. Urslnus at Urslnus Quadrangular

FEBRUARY 3, 1997

jock Shorts

 

BY JEREMY MCNAMEE AND Scorr BOOKWALTER

Wrestling:

This past weekend the Gen-
erals traveled to Collegeville,
Pennsylvania for the Ursinus
Quadrangular. Washington and
Lee’s grapplers beat Swarthmore

V 34-22 on Saturday, and despite

losses to Western Maryland (28-
18) and Ursinus (44-3) finished
the season with a dual meet
record of 4-3, marking W&L’s
first winning season since 1987.

The Generals next take to the
mat at the Virginia State Cham-
pionship Tournament on Febru-
ary 9.

-Men’s Indoor Track:
Junior Will Olson won the

3000-meter run as Washington
and Lee’s men’s indoor track

id”notexist'a

team made their 1997 debut at
the 45th annual VMI Winter
Relays. Olson wonthe race with
a time of 8:58.8. Senior co-
captain Sandy Hooper took
fourth in the 800 with a time of
2:021.

Basketball:

W&L suffered two tough
losses Saturday at Guilford.

The women’s team quickly
fell behind 26-6 in the first half
and could never catch up, losing
78-52 to the Quakers. .

The men lost an 83-81 heart-
breaker in overtime. The Gen-
erals trailed 81-79 when a Walt
Plylerjumper tied the score with
seven seconds left. But a
Kenyatta Ramsey tip-in at the
buzzer gavethe Quakers the win.

‘o eca esiibehind -PB ’

  

'l‘Imesday,
. $199 p..e::**-.=.:s.
Eu ri;t.Ia.@ 

Free 1%."£?§.E§w.

Sponsored by tho iiiiﬁ.-'li and tlw . 

“_".°‘, “

E34‘

_aI-’L_

 
  

(—"li',':‘l;th"-r " ‘
§"lKi(( Alf. .

8' .VI',(-
.. r. i

  

 

 

mix;--.—  ».

 

