 

 

 

‘A

F

rig]
VOLUME 98/, NUMBER 8

GENERAL
NOTES

 

DuPont exhibits alumnus’ art:

W&L alum Langdon Quin will exhibit his landscape and
ﬁgure paintings in DuPont Gallery beginning on October 14.
The artist will speak on October 17 at a 5:30 p.m open reception
in DuPont Hall. Quin graduated from W&L in 1970 and
received an M.F.A. in painting from Yale in 1976. He has had
numerous group and individual exhibitions across the country.
The exhibit will be on display until November 14, Monday
through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more informa-
tion, contact Evan A. Atkins, 540/463-8955.

J-School wins $1.5 million award:

The journalism department was recently awarded a $1.5
million endowment to establish a Knight Chair in Journalism
Ethics. The Knight Foundation, associated with the Knight-
Ridder chain, awarded two chairs this year. The other was to the
University of Missouri, with a focus on editing. W&L's award
means the university's program in journalism ethics will be
substantially expanded.

W&L performs with Borup Brass:

Fans of Washington and Lee's Wind Ensemble will enjoy a
performance on Tuesday, October 15, at 8:00 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center. The Wind Ensemble will be joined by Denmark's
Borup Brass Band for the evening, and will be conducted by
W&L associate professor of music, Barry Kolman. Admission
is free. For more information, contact William Cocke at 540/
463-8978.

Musical storytelling at Lenfest:

The award winning Kadinsky Trio will present "Tales of
Appalachia," traditional storytelling through new chamber mu-
sic, on Friday, October 18 at 8:30 p.m in the Lenfest Center. The
trio is ensemble-in-residence at Roanoke College, and is the
recipient of the Chamber Music America Residency Award.
"Tales of Appalachia" is the collaborative effort of storyteller
Connie Regan-Blake and composer Mike Reid. For more
information on resercations, contact the Lenfest Center Box
Office between 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday, at 540/463-8000.

ABC applauds W&L's LIFE:

LIFE (Lifestyle Information for Everyone), W&L's new
student-led peer health education program, was cited for an
award at a recent Virginia Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control College Conference. LIFE seeks to train students in all
aspects of health, with special emphasis on alcohol and sub-
stance abuse. Trained LIFE members participated in this year's
Freshman Orientation and dorm counselor training. The award
for "New Initiatives Development for Alcohol Programs" in-
cluded a $500 prize to be used toward alcohol programs at
W&L.

German lectures on English:

Gertrud Walter, professor of English language didactics at
University of Erlangen-Nurnberg in Germany, will speak at
Leybum‘s Northern Auditorium on October 14 at 4:00 p.m. Her
topic will be "Teaching English as a Non-Native." Walter is the
author of 27 publications in the area of teaching English to the
non-college-bound German student. Most recently, Walter has
been in the United States on a Fulbright scholarship. She will
end her stay in the U.S. with a one-week visit in Lexington.

Library displays Victorian design:

The Leybum Library will sponsor a lecture for devotees of
the English Arts and Crafts Movement and Victorian furniture,
fabrics and decor. The lecture, given by Betty Kondayan, Jean
Dundar, and Edward Adams, will focus on the work of William
Morris, an English designer, poet, and early Socialist. "The
Legacy of William Morris" is scheduled for Monday, October
21, at 7:30 p.m. in Northern Auditorium and is open to the
public. Those who can't make the lecture should investigate
Leybum Library's exhibit, "William Morris, 1834-1896: Au-
thor, Designer, Businessman - and Much More," on display
through October. For more information, contact Yolanda
Warren at the Leybum Library, 540/463-8662.

-- compiled by Peggy Stuntz

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

  

Photo courtesy of Bethany Bauman
The week preceeding Making Strides, Chi
Omega sponsored a Favorite Dog Contest
in front of the Co-op. Charging 25 cents
per vote, the proceeds benefited the
American Cancer Society.

 

BY KELLEY TOTTEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

A 5-mile walk on Sunday will do more than just
exercise your legs. It will raise money for the American
Cancer Society.

“Making Strides Against Cancer,” the annual char-
ity event co-sponsored by the Catholic Campus Minis-
try and Chi Omega sorority, asks members of the
Washington and Lee University and Lex-
ington communities to give hope to cancer
survivors and raise money to help with
patient services, education and research.

“There’s a real need for people to be
aware that cancer is not a death sentence,”
said organizer Laura Seaman. “Some
people have a hard time dealing with it, and this is a
good way to start.” .

The walk has personal meaning for Burr Datz, Catho-
lic Campus Minister.

“I had a grandmother who died from cancer and
cancer patients who have participated in the walk who
have since passed away,” said Datz. “They may be
gone, but they are not forgotten.”

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

AMERICAN
8 CANCER
{ SOC|E'lY'

   

  

JAMES G. l.E'YBUFl?\l Ll}? \§“\‘r'
WASHii\lGTO."»l £5: Lt'.E.' l.,.‘i'é?‘ F-‘.1-.»i‘i'Y
LEX.ll\lGlON. VA 24450

OCT 1 41995

  

U112 il’ting—tum lﬂlri

Registration for Making Strides begins at 1 p.m.
Sunday in front of Harris Teeter on East Nelson Street.
The walk starts at 1:30. A $5 donation covers the
registration fee.

“We’re encouraging participants to collect pledges,
but it’s not mandatory,” Seaman said.

Students who would like to participate in the Outing
Club’s Mountain Day on Sunday can also register and
collect pledges for Making Strides.

Past events with 50-110 people par-
ticipating have raised between $500-
$1,600, and Datz hopes to match the high
by raising $1,600 this year.

Tim Phillips, a W&L law professor
who was a close friend of Datz, died two
years ago from cancer.

“He was a great, great guy who never let his cancer
get_him down. He provided a lot of hope to other cancer
patients,” said Datz. “Hopefully, we can continue to
provide that hope.”

For more information on Making Strides, contact
Laura Seamen at 463-1929 or Burr Datz at 463-3533. If
you are interested in combining Mountain Day and
Making Strides, contact S.R. Evans at 462-4904.

float,

P oto uitesy of Julien Williams 3 ['0 W.

“No woman,
no cry”:

Kappa Kappa
Gamma jam-
min’ on Main

Street in the

annual Home- 
coming parade’ BY KELLEY TOTFEN
with their PHISTAFF WRITER

d re d I o c k e d ,

way groovy
Ja“Macon”

Kappas won
the first place
prize for the
second year in

Williamson
debuts with
University

After their concert debut Tuesday
night, University Chorus members
are singing praises for their new con-
ductor, Scott Williamson.

“With the new conductor, the pro-
gram has a new dynamic,” said junior
Liz Detter, “which has given the cho-
rus a new life, a new direction.”

Williamson was pleased with the
performance. The chorus, with many
first-time members, had four weeks
to prepare for the concert. “The cho-
rus has gelled in a relatively short

the

Thank God it’s Fridays!

New group provides alternatives

BY B.J. WALKER
Pl-II STAFF WRITER

So, it’s Friday night, you’re ready to
relax but not in the fraternity party mood.
Until this year, that would mean an event-
ful evening of re-runs and pizza. The
Fridays! Committee is trying to do some-
thing about that.

Fridays! books an act to perform ev-
ery Friday night, usually at nine. So far,
a variety of acts have been scheduled:
from comedians to bands. There’s even
a Karaoke night and a hypnotist sched-
uled. The decision on who to book is
made by a committee.

“We’ve looked at tapes of everybody
from people on Saturday Night Live to

people that no one has ever heard of,”
said Sarah Moore, vice-president of Fri-
daysL

Fridays! tries to avoid the typical W&L
frat bands. “We’re going for diversity,”
said junior Megan Weidmaier. They also
move the location of the performances
weekly. “Because there are so many
sophomores in Gaines this year, we’ve
scheduled stuff there. But there’s still
stuff in the GHQ and Lenfest. “

Fridays! doesn’t intend to cater to
only freshmen and independents. It is
also not ment to replace parties as W&L
students activity of choice on Fridays.
“We don’t want people to be forced to
choice between their friends and parties
and Fridays!,” said Moore. “It’s just sup-

posed to be an alternative.

“The events are scheduled so they
wrap-up by 10:30. “They finish early so
students can still go out afterwards.”

Attendance so far has varied. Come-
dian Greer Barnes drew a crowd of sev-
eral hundred at Lenfest; however, he
never showed up. Fortunately, a couple
of last minute replacements were able to

fill in.

Since then, the crowds have thinned.
Last week we had about five people. I
think most people are not sure what to

expect,” said Moore.

This Friday, a funk/ska band, The
Riots, will perform in the GHQ at 9:30.
As always, admission is free and refresh-

ments will be provided.

 

P OPINION

Betsy Green describes Parents Weekend re-
gression syndrome. issue III of The Phi's politi-
cal debate: The Leviathan. page 2

V FEATURES

Brian Candy leaves Alex Christenson ecstatic.
The Riots rock their own world Friday night.
Liberty Hall Volunteers bring W&L's heritage to
life. page 3

P SPORTS

Football drops Homecoming con-
test to Randolph-Macon. Men’s
and women's soccer continue
winning ways. Coach Remillard
comments on this year’s water
polo season. page 8

 

BY DAVID BAisLEY
PHI STAFF WRITER

The Executive Committee recently allocated the

ington and Lee’s student organizations

In order to be considered for fundin each_or§ .

 
  

 
  
 

zation submitted a request formgt the nrdclfﬁse
a representative to appet§1:_:Ot'i’°" its alf. _ w-Q
considered each organizafi0n’S re °3"§l‘l19ﬂ1nt Of

funding, the number-ﬁgjf  h organization
will either involve or beﬁeﬁtﬁa d’e'a’cfiorganization’s
proposed usage of any funding¥;_jyh_ich“\they would
receive. _ 

“I am sure that some organiiﬁt ns get less than
they had expected, and some were surprised with how

 

Executive Committee
declares new bud, 

funds derived from the student activitgfeewtp ,Wash-.. “; V )
“ " " "' ‘ideologically or politically partisan Organizations.”

__ r.>.<§1ii;y not to directly fund politically and ideologi-
‘e“°E:C‘i“”‘é“a“lly"'partisan organizations. The Executive Com-

 
    



 

much they re’3eiv’ Yit”W€‘tried to serve the univer-
sity as best we could§,;com_I1iented Amy Gorham,
Vice-President of the;E, file Committee.

:l,T_,lie Executive Corfiinittee Zilso recently fonnal-
" ' ‘its “long-standing policy of not directly funding

 

 
   

Thexgzpolicy reads: “It is the Executive Committee’s

mittee will remain neutral on issues of national
politics and political ideology.”

Gorham explained that this policy stems from the
fact that a number of organizations on campus ex-
clude some students. She stated, “It’s your money,
and my money, and everyone’s money, and we want
to spend it on everyone.”

ACLU $0.00

Arete $400.00

Ariel $5,390.00

Calyx $17,000.00

Civic"‘Society $194.59

Contact $41,000.00

Emergency Loans $1,000.00
Environmental Awareness $300.00
Fencing $1,500.00

Field Hockey $840.00

Film Society $5,300.00

Foreign Affairs Club $1,250.00
Freshman Leadership Council $250.00
Habitat for Humanity $10,000.00
International Club $1,910.00

Journal of Science $850.00

Lacrosse $640.00

Leybum Society $440.00

Liberty Hall Volunteers $2,100.00
Minority Students‘ Association $6,500.00
Mock Convention four year reserve $5,000.00
Political Review $3,100.00

Allocations of 1996-1997 E.C. Budget

Preston Society $350.00

Publications Board ($1,116.55)

R.E. Belles $500.00

Riding Team $1,000.00

Ring-tum Phi‘ $2,200.00

Rugby $1,710.00

Soccer $215.00

Society for Creative Anachronisms $200.00
Society for the Arts $2,300.00

Softball $420.00

Sophomore Leadership Council $250.00
Student Activities Board $79,700.00
Student Bar Association $47,000.00
Ultimate Frisbee $600.00

Volleyball $675.00

W&L Dance $1,000.00

The Student Pavilion $49,525.00

White Book Review Committee $1,500.00
E.C. Reserve $9,000.00

E.C. Honor Reserve $4,000.00

Student Body Working Reserve $18,000.00
Total: $321,493.04

period of time,” he said.

Williamson, who took over Peter
Hoogenboom’s position in the music
department this year, received a
bachelor's degree in sacred music
from James Madison University and
a master’s in choral conducting and
vocal performance from Westminster
Choir College.

Dr. Gordan Spice, head of the
music department, thought the pieces
Williamson chose were challenging.
He liked the selections from George
Shearing’s “Music to Hear,” which
gave Shakespeare’s poetry a jazzy
beat.

“[Williamson] has injected a new
amount of energy that was evident
from the looks on members’ faces,”
said Dr. Spice.

Several chorus members thought
his enthusiasm really affected the cho-
rus’ positive attitude.

“It’s fun to go to rehearsal,” said
Detter. “I think that unity comes
through during the performance.”

 

o . e y ii Bull, 1869

 

etail o

 

“Ah me! How beautifully the South

remembers her dead...”
-- Author Merideth Nicholson,
upon seeing Lee's tomb

ceremony commemorating the
126th anniversary of the death of
Robert E. Lee will be held at Lee Chapel
tomorrow at 11:05 a.m. The guest
speaker will be Charles R. Roland, a
noted Civil War historian. Liberty Hall
Volunteers and the Washington and Lee
Chamber Singers will also participate
in the service. The public is invited to
attend.

 

OCTOBER 11, 1996

Students stride to raise funds for charity

 

  

 

PAGE 2

W&L students
regressing to

‘Pookie’

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

I hate Parents Weekend.

Sure, I know it’s a few weeks
away, but I’m hoping some of you
will read this and take it to heart.

Right now, Parents Weekend is
my least favorite W&L event by
far. Granted, l’ve been an orphan
here for three years, so maybe you
could argue that I haven’t truly
experienced it. I prefer to think
that as an outsider I can better
observe the absurdity that goes on
here every year in late October.

Parents Weekend is not what is
should be. It should be a time for
our parents to get to know us as
adults. To see where we live, to
meet our friends, to see the fine,
independent, responsible adults
they have raised.

It should be a chance to relate to
our parents not as children, but in
an aura of mutual respect. Think

“Rule of thumb:
if you have
breasts, you are
too old to walk
around holding

your dad ‘s
hand. ”

of how much you’ve grown and
changed at Washington and Lee.
Parents Weekend ought to be a
time for families to feel proud of
these accomplishments. For rela-
tionships among families to reach
a new level.

Instead, we regress.

Every year, I see and am dis-

status

gusted by the way my friends and
classmates seem to be. For the
weekend, anyway, about nine years
old. Look around you:

- The smart girl in your German
class is bickering with her little
brother over who gets to sit in the
front seat.

- Your Homecoming date is al-
lowing his mom to call him Pookie.

- People who managed to bathe
and feed themselves are now ask-
ing mom to do the dishes.

- Your best friend is pretending
she has no idea how to clean the
lint trap in the dryer.

- Meanwhile, your mom just
spit into a Kleenex and is using it to
wash your face. Why is everyone
acting so pathetic?

This year, let's make Parents
Weekend what it should be. Stop
dragging your parents to random
cultural events, unless it’s some-
thing they’d actually enjoy. In-
stead, why not take awalk together
so they can get to know the new
you? Don’t try to pretend to be

someone you’re not.
If your parents take you out to

dinner Friday night, why not make
them dinner on Saturday, to thank
them for all they have done — and
to show off your new practical
knowledge?

If you don’t act childish (i.e.:
call your brother “Pukey,” have
nothing in your fridge but half a
can of Diet Coke, whine, etc.)
maybe your mom will let you wash
your own face. And this is a per-
sonal pet peeve, but 1 am always
disturbed by the way girls hang on
their dads. Rule of thumb: if you
have breasts, you are too old to
walk around holding your dad’s
hand.

I hate Parents Weekend, but I
don’t have to. Please try not to
regress, and instead just be you.
Your parents might actually like it
better.

Quote of the Week:

“Cookies are substantial if
you eat enough of them.”

- Junior Matthew Craig discussing his diet

OPINION

The Rin$Tum Phi,

OCTOBER 11, 1996

 

lBlL.@©@
@lR.'5.EWl§

///

 
  
   

EUREKA‘.

Pure voclkal

  

/176

7//////////////////////7//////////e/,///%?2‘7/”/,-Cd???‘ 377/}

Q

 

Managing Editor.....
News Editors ............... ..
Editorial Page Editor .................... ..
Sports Editors ................... ..
Features Editor ............................ ..
Photography Editor ...................... ..

 
   

dent.
The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all

and obscenity.

@112 tiling-mm lﬂhi

Executive Editor ........................... ..

.................................. ..Jason Zacher
...Scott Bookwalter, Bethany Bauman

 

..................................... ..Sam Levine

Business Manager ........................ ..
Advertising Manager ..................... ..

Circulation Managers ............................. ..Daniel Harrell. Justin Laborde

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive
editor and business manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

All submissions must be in the Phi oiﬂce. room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters.
columns. and “My Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4059

Fax: (540) 462-4060

E-mai: phi@wlu.edu

................................... ..Anne Alvord
...........................  Coombs
...... ..Bethany Bauman, Tarah Grant

...... ..Dave Balsley

 

................................... ..Will Hershey
................................... ..Chip Harrell

responsible submissions and letters.

Decision ’96: Dole Vs. Clinton
Issue #3: The Leviathan

Government is not the ‘root of all evil’

Countdown to the
election...

25
DAYS

The 1 996 Presidential and Congressional elec-
tions are about three weeks away, and President
Clinton still is sitting on a comfortable, double-
digit lead in the polls.

This week, the issue we will fearlessly discuss
in The Ring-tum Phi is the size of our federal
government. This is another topic that seems to»

always be in the debate, but-because of recent:

Republican actions in Congress, is ‘especially
relevant.

Franklin Delano Roosevelt started the
government ’s major expansion with entitlement
programs during the Great Depression.‘ These
were years during which, drastic actions needed
to be taken, but his actions were meant to be
temporary. Lyndon Johnson expanded it further
with his "Great Society. " This, however, has
created a government that seems to have a life of
its own.

It seems that everywhere we go, and every-
thing we do, the federal government has some
regulation or standard that we run into. This is
true of everything from public safety to our
private lives.

On the right this week isJason Zacher ’98,
The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor. On the left
will be Laura Knapp, ’97, our Democratic
columnist.

Is the government too large ? Should some of
its programs be stripped? Can the states truly
deal with their problems effectively, or is the
federal government needed to create continuity
among the states? If you have these questions,
we hope this will help answer them.

- Jason Zacher
Editorial Editor

From the Left
Laura Knapp ’99

One of the Republican battlecries of the past
few election seasons is that the federal govem-
ment is the root of all evil in American society
and that if elected, they will slash the authority of
the federal government. Insinuating that any-
thing that the federal government touches turns
into a bureaucratic nightmare, Republican hypo-
crites like Bob Dole, a Washington bureaucrat
himself running for the most important position
in the federal government while at the same time
planning its demise, advocate the idea that indi-
vidual state governments are the most efficient
and can best serve the interest oflthecitizens. But
the Republican goal Of taking éontrel awayifrom
the federal government is riddled with inaccura-
cies, innuendo and a total lack of regard for the
lessons of history. This is the issue that most
clearly defines the liberals from conservatives.

One of my favorite quotes from Vaclev Havel ’s
Summer Meditations. “If the republics under-
stood the federation to be something that existed
or could exist for their benefit, then they would
have no reason to wish to weaken it, but rather
would want to strenghten it, for in strenghtening
the federation they would be streghtening them-
selves.”

One need only to mention programs and agen-
cies like Medicare, Medicaid, Federal Emer-
gency Management Administration, Social Se-
curity, Clean Water and Air Acts, Environmental
Protection Agency, Centers for Disease Control,
Headstart and the GI Bill to give credence to the
fact that the United States government is indeed
and can be even further, one of the most positive
institutions in the world. One need only to look
at the era of the Great Depression for evidence of
the instrumental role that the federal government
played in bringing the country out ﬁnancial min.

To hand control over to the state governments
would be seriously detrimental to the United will
be that clueles to set such a low limit. Other, more
liberal states - such as New York which has been

traditionally very liberal in welfare distribu-
tion - will set higher limits. The result will
be a mass exodus of welfare recipients to the
state that allows them the highest amount of
welfare for the longest time. The state in
which they move will eventualy be over-
come by a financial crisis and then will have
to resort to cutting families in need of funds,
thus creating another homeless explosion. I
guess the Republicans will feel better know-
ing that the federal government is more
efficient even if it is at the expense of putting
families out on the street just because they
do not possess the skills nor the funds now

 . . the United
Statesfederal gov-
ernment is. . . one
of the most positive

institution in the
world.”

to raise themselves out of poverty. And the
Republicans call themselves the “family
values” party?

I am by no means advocating bureau-
cracy by defending the American federal
government. Liberals, just as much as con-
servatives, hate red tape. But liberals be-
lieve that the federal government has the
ability to be a positive institution by provid-
ing American citizens an equal opportunity
through increased social programs. The
Republicans however, want to decrease the
power of the federal government, and in-'
crease the power and scope of the military
(if you recall my opponent’s column from
last week) while cutting programs like edu-
cational funding. Does that make any sense
to you? It’s a simple choice for me.

How do you know what is best for my grandmother?

face, a family and a problem that

Democrats have felt that the gov-

grams all start out with good inten-

From the Right
Jason Zacher ’98

The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor

One of the first debates ourfore-
fathers had when creating our coun-
try was, “How large should our
federal government be?” Being
the wise men that they were, the
federal government (under our cur-
rent constitution) was started as a
small entity given a few speciﬁc
duties. In time, that had to change

with our country’s growth, but-

since this country began, our gov-
ernment has grown at an alarming
rate.

The question that the Republi-
cans have tried to pose is this:
“How can some government bu-
reaucrat know what is best for a
small business owner in Prairie du
Sac, Wisconsin?”

The answer is that the bureau-
crat has no idea. This desk jockey
can barely ﬁnd Wisconsin on the
map and probably only knows the
Packers play football somewhere
in the state. Someone with a prob-
lem from Prairie du Sac becomes a
paper lost in a huge stack on a desk
in Washington. This person has a

needs to be taken care of quickly.
“Your problem will be solved in
due time,” repeats the bureaucrat,
“you’re number 682!” (My favor-
ite Absolut ad is the “Absolut
D.C.,” with the red tape wrapped
around the bottle).

When our country was founded,
the states were supreme. This was
mostly because of the fear of a
strong central government but also
because the states knew their
people best. Today, we need to re-
learn that lesson.

Our government has standards
and regulations that are uniform
throughout the country. What
works in rural Iowa cannot work in
Miami, Florida - the people are
different, their problems are dif-
ferent and their values are differ-
ent. Federal mandates cannot be
universal.

Since taking over Congress in
1994, the Republicans have tried
to place more power in the hands
of the states, a move that President
Clinton has supported from time to
time. They have placed every-

thing from welfare to speed limits
back in the hands of the states.
Since the days of FDR and LBJ,

ernment can solve social ills. Gi-
ant bureaucracies have been built
to do this. To help retirees, we
have Social Security. To help low-
income families, welfare was cre-

“This desk
jockey can
barely find
Wisconsin on a
map and prob-
ably only
knows that the
Packers play
football some-
where in the
state. ”

ated. In almost every case that the
government is involved, the bu-
reaucracy has grown faster than
could be controlled and now the
size is out of control. These pro-

tions but little planning. Luckily,
the Congress prevented our gov-
ernment from making the same
mistake with our health care sys-
tem.

Some Democrats argue that we
need to provide for people who
cannot provide for themselves.
This is true, but the number of
people who cannot “provide for
themselves” is far smaller than the
government thinks.

There are many areas where the
government can, and needs to, be
large. The government needs to
make safety regulations for air-
planes, cars, etc. It also needs to
regulate our airwaves, and should
even create a national standard to
hold our schools against. But most
of the central decision making
needs to be made in local govern-
ments, where a face can be placed
with that name from Prairie du
Sac, and the worker knows exactly
what the family needs, or could
find out personally and quickly,
not measure against some stat sheet.
That is the true “caring govern-
ment” that the Republicans are,
and the Democrats should be, striv-
ing for.

-D’

 

, —.~—.,_ .,. ._..

 

 

OCTOBER 11, 1996

David Balsley
Phi Features Editor

At least twice every year, the brothers
of Chi Psi can be satiated only with
massive quantities of blood. Yesterday
was one of those days.

On Thursday, October 10, Chi Psi and
the American Red Cross held their first
blood drive of the year. Students and
faculty were invited to come to Doremus
Gym between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. to
donate.

“We really appreciate those who came

W& life

Chi PSI Eﬂd REU C7055 UTBW DIOOU

out, but we hope to get even more people
next time,” commented Ken Zelenak,
who co-ordinated the event.

Zelenak estimated that approximately
eighty people gave blood yesterday. Al-
though Chi Psi fell short of its goal of
attracting one hundred people to the blood
drive, the number of donors this year was
consistent with the number of donors
from last year.

“It was really great to see all these
people because we were afraid that we
wouldn’t break eighty,” Zelenak stated.

Traditionally, Chi Psi holds two blood

drives every year, one in the fall and
another in the spring. The next blood
drive is scheduled for some time in March.

Zelenak intends to improve on
yesterday’s blood drive. First, the blood
drive will be moved from Thursday to
Tuesday in order to attract athletes who
could not give blood because of weekend
competitions.

Second, the blood drive will be held
later in the day. Zelenak commented that
the number of donors yesterday greatly
increased after three o’clock. The num-
ber of donors became so great that al-

though they stopped taking names at 5
p.m., the last donor did not live until
6:10.

Zelenak hopes that hosting the blood
drive later in the day will allow the blood
drive to take advantage of the afternoon
rush. We understand that people have to
attend classes and lectures,” Zelenak
stated.

Zelenak expressed his gratitude to the
people who helped to set up for the event,
as well as everyone who attended, stat-
ing, “Thanks to everyone who made it
possible.”

Kathryn Mayumik
Phi Staff Writer

The sun is creeping over the Virginian mountains as
the Confederate troops prepare for another day of battle.
The smell of gunpowder is still in the air as the troops
march toward the enemy, the morning dew clinging to
their gray woolen uniforms. No, this isn’t a clip from
the mini—series “North and South,” but our very own
Liberty Hall Volunteers participating in a Civil War re-
enactment.

The Liberty Hall Volunteers, which consists of twenty
Washington and Lee Students and is funded by the
Executive Committee, was founded in 1986 by three
law students who wanted to portray the original Liberty
Hall Volunteers as they had participated in the Civil
War from Manassas in 1861 to Appomattox in 1865.
The Confederate troops affectionately dubbed the en-
listed group of young men from Washington College as
“.lackson’s Pets.” Because the men were well educated
and well disciplined, Jackson favored them by making
them his camp guards. “But they lived down their
reputation because they were often sent into the front

In Dixieland I'll take mystand:

evolunteers celebrate student legacy

The 1995-96 Liberty Hall Volunteers. The Volunteers will take part in the memorial
service for Robert E. Lee this Saturday, October 12.

lines of combat,” said Eric Sampson, president of the
Liberty Hall Volunteers club.

Much overlooked is the Liberty Hall Volunteers’
ﬁrst contribution in the American Revolution. “George
Washington himself was so impressed with the courage

, of the Liberty Hall,Volunteers that it weighed on his—
‘decisio'n'to,donat‘e money here,” said.sophom'o;,e m~em- «-

'ber”Patrick McCormack. .

The present day Liberty Hall Volunteers march and
shoot off their weapons in the Homecoming parade and
the Lexington Christmas parade. They also participate
in the ceremony commemorating Robert E. Lee’s death
and travel to at least three or four re-enactments per
year. “We usually go to'Cedar Creek and New Market
every year forre-enactment,” said Sampson. “We camp,
we drill a lot, have morning parades, and re—enact a
major battle based on the tactical history of the battle.
Sometimes we just use period tactics and formulate our
own battle. lt’s actually kind of like paint-ball.”

Like the original Liberty Hall Volunteers of the 18th
and 19th centuries, the 20th century guys have to suffer
in the face of natural disasters. “Last year at Cedar
Creek there was a torrential downpour and there was
literally a small river running through our tents,” de-

scribes Sampson...‘.‘.We hadto wade through two feet , ,
deep oﬂwatersto gettoour trucks wheregwe shivered all ,- J» . --

night.” ’  '_ ‘ ' ' A’ 1 . .

Oddly enough, the group consists of all Northerners
with the exception of two members. McCorrnack, who
lives in Pennsylvania about forty—five minutes from
Gettysburg, feels that it is not a matter of North versus
South. “Some people who do stuff like this think of it
as a matter of regional pride and heritage, but most
people see at as a matter of American heritage. We’re
not really Confederates or Yankees. We’re not still
fighting the Civil War. I like the way it brings history
alive in a more vivid way. lt’s a unique experience you
can’t find anywhere else.”

SIKANLK ﬁll’ up:

THE Re©rs R©C|l< lll\l‘ll‘© 'V\/&i_

Kelley Totten
Phi Staff Writer

There will be no looting, shooting, or
burning, just an eclectic mix of musical
styles when the Riots perform at 9:30
p.m. on Friday, October 11, in the GHQ.

in 1993, a classical guitarist, jazz

campus, is sponsoring the event with free
admission, food, and drink.

“They play a different kind of music,”
said Fridays! chairperson Tadzia

GrandPre. “I can’tdeﬁne it. lt’s just fun _

and upbeat.”
Band members create their own musi-
cal genre with their blend of funk,

drummer, R&B rock’n’roll,R&B,
singer, funk POP, Latin, Ska,
bassist and Latin and jazz.

trumpet player
formed the At-
l a n t a - b a s e d
band.

F r i d a y s !
Committee, a
student organi-
zationthat brings
various enter-
tainment acts to
Washington and
Lee University’s

 

GrandPre saw
The Riots last
spring and per-
suaded Fridays! to
bring the band to
W&L. “They re-
ally have fun
when they play,”
she said. “They
bring out those
conga drums and
just go crazy.”

The Roots‘ brave new world

David Balsley
Phi Features Editor

It was a far cry from last spn'ng’s
Coolio concert. When the Roots took the
stage at the Pavillion, they gave Wash-
ington and Lee University a sampling of
a sound rarely found in the rap genre.

Last Friday, the Roots shunned the
dance pop beats of Coolio and his west
coast cohorts in preferrence for a slower,
but not less aggressive, east coast style.
Impressively, they performed all oftheir
own background accompaniments, a feat
rarely equalled within today’s rap industry.

Their sound closely paralleled A Tribe
Called Quest’s “Low End Theory,” an
album which gained distinction because
of its laid-back beats and live instrumen-

tation. Currently, this sound makes them
unique; in an industry crowded with rap-
pers who are content to sample the same
tired Parliament funk, the Roots are truly
original. In this sense, the Roots are a
sort of anomaly. They seem to belong in
the late 1980’s “Native Tongue” society,
which consisted primarily of A Tribe
Called Quest, the Jungle Brothers, and
De La Soul. The Roots almost seem to be
behind their time.

Maybe the Roots are aware of their
“antiquity.” At the show on Friday, they
covered a slew of rap’s anthems, includ-
ing the "1978 “up jumped the boogey”
sound of Sugar Hill Gang’s “Rapper’s
Delight.” They also performed parts of
songs by Public Enemy (“Bring the

Please see Roots, pg. 5

Germ

       

Bill Overbaugh
Phi Staff Writer

Yes, it’s true. In the back streets of
the metropolis of Lexington, a small
band of people, ranging from preteens
all the way through retirement age,
planned a soccer match between the
French Club and the German Club
this past Sunday. The Germans took
the lead from the very beginning when
they outscored the French
players 20-0.

Yes, 20-0.

They decided to split up into two
groups and play anyway; the final
score was six for the Germans and
three for the, well, Germans. The
players consisted mostly of Washing-
ton and Lee students, two faculty
members, and several members of the
Shenandoah Deutschverein.

“The who?” you ask.

The

 

am it wttﬁ 6.... . .

Deutschverein is a club for people in
the area interested in German culture,
language, and history. It is open to
anyone who would like to attend, and
has several activities planned for
this year.

On October 27th, the
Deutschverein will host the annual
Oktoberfest at Skylark, Washington
and Lee University’s retreat center in
the Blue Ridge Mountains. The
Oktoberfest features a game of touch
football, food and drink, and, of course,
Deutsch Bier.

There is also a night of story telling
planned and a St. Nicholas party later
in the year. Every meeting has a dish-
to-pass dinner with luscious German
specialties. Anyone interested in the
Deutschverein can contact Professor
Crocket.

Hope to see you all there at the
Oktoberfest!

»

Photos by Bill Overbaugh

PAGE 3

TV ain’t movies:

My first video pick
<- Brain
Candy

      
      
     

.9
III:

Alex Christensen *7**_* of 4
Ph' Mov’e Crit'c stars’ a true
‘ 1 ‘ masterpiece

ell, this week the RC State Theater is getting the

latest grishamroman, The Chamber, starring

Gene Hackman and Chris O’Donnell and di-

rected by Glengarry Glen Ross director James Foley, and the

Michael Douglas/Val Kilmer/scary evil tiger ﬂick, Ghost and

the Darkness. I haven’t seen either, so this week I’m giving

you my recently out on video pick. This will probably be more

useful to most of you anyway, since it’s easier to drink while
you watch a video than a movie in the theater. (Well, it is.)

My first video pick is a movie from earlier this year which
most of you probably missed in the theater. lt’s called Kids in
the Hall Brain Candy, and you should really, really, really,
really, really, really watch it.

Everybody who’s cool knows who the Kids in the Hall are.
Take a second and see if you know. If you don’t, you’re not
cool. Nyah, nyah. Okay, I’ll tell you, and then you can be cool
from the time you finish reading this review on. The Kids in
the Hall were/are (there’s some doubt) a sketch-comedy
troupe from Canada who had their own show on the CBC
which also played on HBO, CBS, and now on Comedy
Central, which we don’t have on our freaking cable because
some jerk at Adelphia Cable thinks we should have TWO
country music video stations and THREE Bible-thumping
moron stations and MSNBC instead. The hottest place in hell
has been reserved for that pinhead exec, but on with the story.
Their show was like

Monty Python meets
“Saturday Night Live?”
in Canada, and, say, both
of them are drunk, and
one thing leads to
another...you get the pic-
ture. It was usually an
eclectic mix of skits fea-
turing the Kids in drag,
makeup, or various states
of undress doing inad-
‘ H_vi'sa_ble: things, an t__ohi—
ilariotusi‘ effect. Though ,. . . g -
the show didn’t feature too many stock characters so that each
line became a catchphrase, you might recognize The Chicken
Lady, Cabbage-Head, Buddy Cole, or their wonderful “The
Gospel According to Dr. Seuss.” Truly, this show was a
landmark in the cultural history of...something. By the way,
the Kids are/were: Dave Foley (now of NBC’s “NewsRadio”),
Norm MacDonald (now of...nothing), Scott Thompson (now
of HBO’s “Larry Sanders”), Mark McKinney (now of “SNL”),
and Bruce McCulloch (check out his CD, Shame-Based Man).

So after the show ended, they decided to make a movie.
What they came up with is sort of Dr. Strangelove meets
Monty Python and the Holy Grail for the nineties. Brain
Candy is about a young, idealistic scientist named Chris
Cooper (Norm MacDonald) who comes up with a brand new
drug which, when taken, invades the patient’s brain and finds
his happiest memory. Then it locks in that happy, pleasurable
feeling and makes him hap-hap-happy all the time. Before
testing can be completed, however, Cooper’s boss, Don
Roritor (Mark McKinney), president and CEO of Roritor
Pharmaceuticals (“The makers of Stummies!”), finds himself
desperately in need of a new drug to boost the company’s
flagging sales. What ensues is a touching, sick fable about the
dangers of medicating one’s problems away, and a startling,
original send—up of our society.

The soundtrack is also a joy, with original songs like
“Some Days lt’s Dark,” “Happiness Pie” (Sample lyric: “See
the sad man in the corner, he is gross and he is old/People steal
his shoes and make him eat mold/His life won’t be bad, if he
does what he is told/He should be an alchemist and turn his
pain into gold...golden pie!”), “l’m Gay,” and “Long Dark
Twenties.”

I hate to say, as some critics have, that unless you liked the
humorofthe show, you probably won’t like the movie. So l’m
not going to say it. Watch it. You’ll like it. Most of the
comedy is not dependent upon references to the show. It
stands alone. Meet lovely new characters like Dr. Cooper,
Don Roritor, Grivo, Cancer Boy, Mrs. Hurdicure, and Wally
Terzinsky. lt’s a twisted take, and not for the faint of heart, but
if you think you’ve got the comedy cojones, give it a try
sometime.

it out!
THE (

Fridog. October. II
9:30 p.m. in the GHQ

ffoo AJ~\.'$$(Av\
$,».s.r.a ‘-1 irko FR’)-pqﬂl Co~\~(.‘i-(rec

 

 

  

> PAGE 4 CARTOONS / ADVERTISING The Ring-tum Phi, OCTOBER 11, 1996

  
 

               
   
 
     
       
       
  

      
   

   
      

 

   

  
  

lx\l)|,\j}J\{D V U 0 4 r DAVE, n= we CANT AGREE on WHAT T0 KENT... 0K, u Pz2oPosE
i”7,ﬂ”:“  $7]  [XWTHER NEAR-DEBT EXPERIENCE MAYBE we cxw AGREE on wHATNoT1b RENW NO PAuLY SHORE ,4_,_,_,M”_L,M_”
_“ Z N .' ' r‘ E “'4 FINE/ATLEAST wE'o 5
*1 _::—J% , HAVE 60ME Kwo OF
/  "‘:‘J §TAl?TlNG POINT,
I
I
wE WERE .
(THOUGHT You GUYS WERE OARLA, 8uT wE Eggzaggfefzirglimﬁé
GONNA BREW W142 own! BEER?! RAN our OF A ‘FIVE SENQEQ,
KEY INGREVIENT... ’ ' 
A v 6TINK§.’ "
,« I  / 3;‘ ‘2
’  ,,\ is’
E V E-i
ii ‘ii i
’  2.259 gg §_g .
‘ Q
1 5.; 4:3: . 5.53 A9 ONE M0RNIN@ Pkocees END9,
ANOTHER MOURNM W53 BEG“

STUDY ABROAD '

I

General Information Meeting
V 1».

 

  

 
 

_g on
 5   ~
‘iiﬁoveameeacx Tuesday, October 22nd
G
L: at *
Spring Term, Limited
Semester, or , Financial Aid
Full year  p'In° Available

   

in

 
   

 
    
 

  
   

 

M°R“"“"" ‘§‘Zeie°$2“35e“&‘3§w 9«‘e”E””3§i:>“é‘ib’5 Room 114 University Center ‘
GWIMMY P00" gwesr WAST Mare? ewtmmce P00. ‘1

hina Japan Hong Kong

l).C. Trip

     
   
        
    
   

©1995 Grimmy Inc. _
Dist by Tnbune Media SEMCBS. I

 
 

WHKF ARE 4500

PI cAn‘rvoAM«.>mme .
wml Q00 Mow,eRtMMﬁ5, vome wm-4 ‘MAT
BOOMERANG 7

Spend the Day: ‘ ’

*Shopping
*Sightseeing
*Museums
*Theatre ~

*Resturants

   

rmuuk WE
VLSCOVEREP
THE ORIGIN OF

BREAK VAMOIMG.

9965l®

ix-us \‘\’CHlNCa \\\
on Me BACK
xs KILHMC-a ME. ;=

‘oul 'S33!A.|3§ E!pa.V:1)U6|UA7:gl‘llhKQ ‘xsxg

 

 

Saturday, November 1 .
2nd

 
  

Inc.
D151. by Tribune Media SEYVVCE

   
      
       

E .3
5 ¢%:E§s I
 RATTLER Charter bus leaves at 9 a.m. ’*
em §’§*§*«<'5.»3“’—<'~"”<.>o"z‘3"'   and returns later that night

CAT E .9 _ ‘

 CANAR
\

Purchase your $10 ticket from -
Michelle Richardson, Room 103
of the University Center "
or call X4111.

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
   

FRl1'Z,‘r‘Ot$V6 BEEN KM
OB5Vi5MC55Cl-lOOL‘IDO
wNG. | TTgB5
A REGULAR DOG.

    

p-'1. ._.-

 

The Ring-tum Phi, OCTOBER 1 1, 1996

 

1995
Dist.

CARTOONS / ADVERTISING

Grirnmy Inc.
Tribune Media Services. Inc.

I l4lONV5R IF
-ggwmvmis

199 Gnmmyln

The Ring-tum Phi:
We Love Cliff Woolley,

Computer God
Extraordinaire

_ - Helpwarited 3+-‘
/\pproximate|yv15 to 20 hours per
week for light fi|ing,..te|emari<eting

person to work evenings. If ’
interested, please contact Mr.

Thomas or Judy Atkins at.

Rockbridge Memorial Gardens
from 10 am. to 2 p.m. Monday -
Friday. at (540) 4637750 or

fax resume to
(540) 465-6197.

.7 ,

 

my’... ,. ,. - ., ...u&:.or~~-_aa.-«u» .-r-. .»..—n~..»

1ilKvL....'»,, .‘  ml

 

c.
Dist. byTribune Media Services. Inc.

 

 

   

 
   

  

Roots, from pg. 3

Noise”), Boogie Down Productions,
Eric B. & Rakim, D.J. Polo, and Busta
Rhymes. In this sense, their perfor-
mance traced the history of their genre.

By re-discovering the past, the
Roots may be leading the way to the

   

Mz.ooas£...9ouk its me rizsrrzMe‘F~'ow ‘Ream’

P0950‘?/ll1MVJU5T LFTTLE FRITZ HA5 ¢°°52§Q°M5WH5R5/ -ro 3Rw(,-,;W

KIPNAPPEPOUR BEENAWAQ RUWNGWII-P me

57;“: pup/qr oBEPiENc'.a OMHE STREETS, umguug?
.,2_.‘ SCHOOL!
I"

future. Gangsta rap has been ﬂooded
by no-name artists who all boast the
samecriminal record. The recent death
of Tupac Shakur and the long delay in
the release of Dr. Dre’s next album, in
conjunction with rap’s mediocrity,
have gutted the rap scene. The recent

 
    
  
 
 

 
  
 

popularity of the Fugees seems to in-
dicate that rap’s fans want something
new. If the Roots receive sufficient
airplay on MTV, they could easily
ascend to the top of the rap heap.
W&L may have witnessed the next
rap superstar last Friday.

Communtig Big Brother/
Big Sister Program

If you would like to be a volunteer big

sibling, please pick up an application outside

of Carol Caulkins office in the University
Center.

For more information call Jessica at 463-
9323 or Anne at 462-4271.

 

ll\l'\/ES"T"I\./IEl\lT BANKERS TC) Tl-{E I\/IIEDIIDLE l\/IAIKKET

\/V1»: <:;trr=-$.14, A T\/\/c;T"YE/KR AN/\LYSn”f‘ i>i<.<;_><T;r¢./«M <::>r

 

-LN ’l”CI>

l’Vk.,"J‘l"l\/f\TEl'_'> UNDEKCK/\L')(JA'I'E,S Vs/NC) }"lAVli A
l'.‘>iZ?V1C>l‘~I$TR/\TE[D RECCDRD CJF /\C3L:C)f\/ll"Ll5l~-llV|[il\l'l‘.

CCDAAPANY PRESEi\lTATlC)N AND RECEPTION ‘
TUESDAY, CDCTCDBEK '1 5, '1 996
LINlVERSlTYCENTER~ 1 1 4

,. ~_ « l

   

 

Bc.'.'.>\AIi.i'.~.‘.< 1»-i<.‘.>a..i.x..:-wxzi.i.. <LT.;:rNNE,P. £9: (:KZ.',

..»,-,.. ..» ,.-M... .. ~......... ........ .1...» c.» «--<.' ~ A»-v ~ - >

7:00 FIVE

-4.“ «mm

-‘z-..-...«.».

Kesuzvu; [.7K(.I)X’ (;)a;*rc)u:y\ 1 8, 1 996

ON CAMPLIS twrakvuaws

Tk1ELf§[.Z>AY, N<::svs;,Mex-:.a 1 9, 1 996

 

Power Macintosh‘ 5400

Power Ilachtoslf 5260

Applocunpus8oﬂwanPack

5 1' /}-"IR./r").>'\' Llt‘/'7‘/\'(/',’ \;’)'[(l_;

.S'¢t¢3l00wbm}oupurv:bawaqiulg‘ﬁ-:'ngMaa'nlasb

oflnlrrrulximul I.'u«.-r';mr Madn'ne.r Cnrpomfim. ma! under license

, ! ’//ioerPC''6()_ 30//'20 Mllzf 16448 RAJ!

 

Pot/.=erPC" 6 039/100 MI-lz/16MB RAM
8/](L‘rI13./ii’ CD R0111/1'-7' "//i.>‘;'>[a_.'

Only £156. Over 12 soﬂware titles
indudalﬂar allyaur 3/mien! rzcczl-.1

andAppl¢prinkr;¢ﬁrmMIbmqtOdoberlI, I996 ©1996
Ibergﬁom.All.M¢¢:'Mzi#mnpuknandni;trIedIabe

wnpumlmﬂlrxkbtrwrrd A5:

A7  u-ilb disability. in [mm mon(l1.§ 0'53}. call800-600~7808or17Y800~7$5-0601.

Save $100 on anlapple prin"t.er. I 

PARTY LINE.

 

Cali Subway for a Party Sub or Party Platter. You tail us
how tong you want your Party Sub —- and we'll make it.
And we?! stuff your Party Platter with your favorite subs -
sticed in tasty 4" portions. Save our number. And talk to us
when its party time.‘

‘Advance notice required.

463-3322
453 E. Nelson Street Lexington

10% Discount with this ad

 

when you buy a.~Mac.

For further information visit

University Computing in
Tucker Hall, Room 229

or call 463-8847 (on campus, X7847).

‘Prices do not include sales tax

Free one-yea_r_ Apple warranty. "

Visit pour campus computer store or http://campuznapple.com/

"'f0ﬁM»FDUW90ﬁ.RIwM¢I$w¢uH£)kWhmrqimdbubMrtoﬂ/pleconpuknbu Anacrﬂackabwdumligmopleconrpnden Inc mm/msamulemarb

 

 

u u - I Q . Q

Generals in action this week. 0    Last week.s results.

FoarnAu. - Sat. at Davidson. 1:30 p.m. ' ‘
Msoocn - Sat. at Hampden-Sydney. 4:00 p.m. “um _

Wsoocn - Sat. at Widener. 12:00 p.m. v F L 21-10 vs' Randolph-Macon

voimruu. - m. & Sat. at Gallaudet Invitational "s°°°"‘ ‘ w- 4'“ "5- °‘““°"d‘ w- 2'“ "5' W"

wun pow . pd, at }.lopklns_ 7,00 p_m__ sat, at CwpA 1-oumey Wsoocn - L. l-O. vs. R-M: L. 1-0. vs. Wooster: W. 3-1. vs.

at George Washington Roanoke

G0" - Mom at Greensboro Invltaﬂonah TBA Vouzvuni. . w vs. Emory and Henry ( l8-6. 15-6. 15-1)

nmm - Sun.. Men's Fall Classic. 9:00 a.m. WAT“ Pow _ L 164 1 vs Hopkms

CROOC Couirrxr - Sat. at VA State Championship. 9:00 a.m. C Co _ Rik ' ' ’ i‘

 

PAGE 6 FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CRoss COUNTRY OCTOBER 1 1, 1996
M h v f w k' at
SOCCBT teams ITIOVG closer t0 conference titles
I
BY KRIS MATHIS Week. _ _ “The team effort was unbe- ous three meetings between the the Generals, both netting goals
pm STAFF wan-ER The men recorded their sev- lievable,” freshman midﬁelder two schools. With the win, the before halftime.
enth victory of the season in Generals ran their record to 7-1 Goalies senior Beth Mozena
h_ d dramaticfashion by completing with the only loss coming at and freshman Stephanie
The was mgton, an Lee anlhcredlblecomebacktoknock rs Goucher College on September McKnightcombinedforthesec- 1?
men’s and W°me“ 5 50°C“ off cross-town rival Virginia   28. ond halfshutout.
teams are Military 1n§titllle 2-1 at ff rt The men will next prepare The3-Zwinadvarioestheirreoord
ggzﬁn C0; Breryvbaker Field Wednesday e O  for Saturday’sODACbattle with to 8-2 and gives Washington and
mg t. _ . Hampden—Sydney. Following Leesolepossessionofseoondplaoe
t‘: andeu!‘ ‘The Keydets scored justthree U I1 b e I I e V‘ that game, the Generals will get in theoonferenoe. W&Lisalsonow ‘
s an mg mmuteslntothe game. Butfresh— ” a huge test when they travel to ranked eighth in the Southern Re-
Sta‘; as me“ Jamie Parker Pl3Yed the  Atlanta to take on #4 Emory gionforwomen’ssoooer.TheGen-
eac team herofortheceneralsashescored University. eialswilloontinuetheirquestforthe
lﬂelfarfes his 13th and 14th goals of the The women’s soccer team, ODAC championship when they
0 Vle 0! season during the second half, ffeshman meanwhile, hosted ODAC rival tiaveltoWidenerCollegeon Satur- .
‘he _Q]d putting the score at 2-1. midfielder Roanoke on Thursday night. day.
Remlhleh With the exception of VMl’s Jason Miller Washington and Lee came out Both the men’s and women’s
C ! h 1:319 lone goalin the ﬁrst half, goalie strong, taking the early lead on soccer teams face tough sched-
h . h_ 10" ehT_' Garry Hill held the Keydets _ _ a goal from Leighton Kirby. ules in the next few weeks as
e“ee e emP10“S ‘P ate‘, !_ 15 scoreless. Though the Generals Jason Miller said after the emo- Roanoke scored their lone goal they preparefortheODACtour1ia- , I
m°"!h- B0”! !e3m5 are "ding started slow, a stirring come- tional victory. of the night with eight minutes merit and possibly for bids to the p bl , ph ,
high after emotional victories b k ‘i dbothf d 1 — VMI h t ii d th — t ‘ th r t h If. E ' NCAADi ' ‘ III ' ' - . . " '°' ’ °°
°VeT leng “me “V315 this P35! efiscalil)<(:::.l 6 ans an P ay ries recentliyf, gethe peref/ti R)eigri(t):l<lt:.landeKilrr:y anasweredff: in ﬂlld-N0:/'(l§sII‘lb1ef. champomshlps Lelghton Kirby scored two goals agamst Roanoke’

Yellow Jackets sting Generals, 21 -1 0:

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER AND
BETHANY BAUMAN
Pm SPORTS EDITORS

started the day with a bang. Senior quar-
terback Brooks Fischer returned after
missing last week’s game with a shoulder
injury and scored a touchdown on a 17-
yard run to give W&L a quick 7-0 lead.

Despite showing little ability to pass,
the Yellow Jackets began to move the
ball on the ground after the Generals’
TD. But the W&L defense kept R-MC
out of the red zone, stopping the Jackets
once on downs in W&L territory.

When junior kicker Matt Holbrook
booted a 26-yard field goal midway
through the second quarter, the Generals,

The Home-
coming football
game last Satur-
day started out
spectacularly for
the Generals.

Unfortu-
nately for the
men wearing
blue and white,

 

it did not end the now up 10-0, began smelling an upset.
same way it But Randolph-Macon began snuffin g
started. out those upset hopes late in the second

The Generals could not hold a 10-
0 first-half lead and fell to ODAC
power Randolph-Macon, 21-10. The
loss dropped the Generals to 1-3 over-
all, 0-2 in the ODAC.

Randolph-Macon has been picked
by many to strongly contend for the
conference title this season, but the

quarter when it scored a touchdown fol-
lowing a W&L turnover to cut the deficit
to 10-7 at halftime.

Third quarters have not been kind to
the Generals this year, and it was no
different Saturday. Randolph-Macon
stormed out after the break to score touch-
downs on its first two second-half pos-

 

Photo by Julien Williams
Trey Carr (15) makes a key tackle against Randolph-Macon. Q

Yellow Jackets showed few signs early
of being a team that has beaten W&L

six straight times.

  
   

sessions to give W&L a deficit at 21-10
from which it could not recover.
The Generals have now been

Despite its third quarter woes, the Gen-
erals’ defense kept alive its streak of not
allowing a point in the fourth quarter.

five yards on three rushes as the R-MC

defense stuffed the W&L running game

throughout most of the second half.
“We played very well in the first

AfterRandolph-Macon fumbledon outscored 42-9 in the third quarter this But the Yellow Jackets’ defense was _ _ 3
its first possession, the W&L offense season. equally up to the challenge, and the tough half---Crit1Ca_1miStakeS hurt 1_lS1I1the Sec-

. .. . . R-Mc running game eohtrolled the clock ond half,” said sophomore tailback Floyd
throughout most of the final quarter, pre- Young. “We Sh0Wed We can 913)’ With
venting W&L from making a comeback, the best and beat the best. We just have

Junior defensive end Jack Boyd rose to focus on the little things and we’ll keep
to the occasion for the Generals’ defense Winning games-” . ’
by amassingaW&L season-high 19tack- W&L W111 try t0 chmh Out Of the
les, 5 of them solo tackles. Boyd is now ODAC basement When It heads $0 f00t-
second on the team with44tackles, trail- ball and academic 1’iVal DaVldS0h C01-
ing only his brother McGuire’s 53 tack- lege-
les_ The Division 1-AA Wildcats are now .7
JuniordefensivetackleOmarMoneim 2-2 after defeating GUi1f0rd last Week,
was also a major force as he racked up a but DaVidS0n has not beaten W&L at
season-high 10tackles, including his ﬁrst h0me Since 1977- The Generals W0h 27'
sack. 12 in 1992 and 9-3 in 1994 on Davidson’s
Fellow tackle Neil Kelleter also had a Richardson Fie1d-  year, W&L Pre- ~
season-high in tackles with 9, vailed over Davidson in Lexington, 19-
offensively, Fischer played well as he 13. W&L leads the overall series, 17-10-
converted on 21 of 30 passes for 151 1- _
yards to go along with his touchdown The 1-3 Generals will hope for a re-
run. Senior Tommy Rueger, last week’s peat of the 1994 contest. When the Gen-
starting QB, returned to his wide receiver erals last entered the DaVldS0r1 Campllea *-
position and hauled in one of Fischer’s they Were 0-3 On the SeaS0n, but their
' ‘ passes for 14 yards. tense 9-3 win that day propelled the Gen-
Photo by Julien Williams Junior running back Seth McKinley eralf $0 ﬁVe Wins in thelr 135! SIX games Of «
Aaron Wilkinson (43) takes the handoff from Brooks Fischer (13). made ms 1996 debut’ but managed only the 94 Season’ ‘
Phi Q&A with Aquatic’s Coach Ftemillard
h

BY JASON ZACHER AND BETHANY

BAUMAN
Pm STAFF WRl1'ERS

The Washington and Lee water polo
team made their ﬁrst appearence in
TwomblyPool lastsaturday in a match

championship title (October 19-20). We
will have to beat James Hopkins Univer-
sity to accomplish this goal. We also set
a goal of qualifying for the CWPA south-
ern championship. We need to beat the
University of Richmond next week to do
this. (We) may also have to beat Johns

Hopkins University.

last weekend against Hopkins?

A: Too many mistakes! We scored 7
of 12 "man-up" situations, but gave up to
many easy goals for JHU. We must get
more athletically physical! We know
what to do, it just has to be important
enough to get it done. It's going to be
physically uncomfortable for about 70

minutes. Ari athlete knows that! If you
want to win, you accept the pain, allow it
to motivate you and when the game is won
the pain is gone. the athlete is willing to

take that chance...lf you fear losing, why '

go for it? The athlete would say, "Noth-
ing, nothing hurts more to lose when you
were capable of winning!"

against Johns Hopkins.
Washington and Lee led 4-2 after
the ﬁrst quarter. The Generals hung
on against the

Q: What major changes were made
from last season?
A: We recruited two goalies, a glaring

Jock Shorts Bwmwwcwm

Blue Jays, 6-5, weakness last year. Additionally we
WW1 late in ‘he brought in four other freshmen with polo
SeC0"d- 3141 experience. (We also) changed the of- Golf

feated Emory and Henry: 18-16, 15-6,
15-1. With the victory the Generals '
extended their home court winning

then Hopkins
went on a 6-1

fense a bit.
This past Tuesday and Wednesday

2'" t°p”Il(la.way' , Q‘ which 91:3’ "5 “re “mking an the Washington and Lee men’s golf streak to 16 matches. The Generals are
clirfdfédthlecf 'ml:‘_°tSth'.s ye?“ S.1b t . N th teamparticipatedinthetwo-day Ferrum now a perfect 4-0 in the ODAC, 16-3

6 H ‘ emols ames ‘ “S cm’ a 3“ Invitational. The Generals posted an- overall.
107')’: 1 - - Hottle, and Pete Sorenson. Also, fresh-

other strong showing,
placingthird overallwith
a total score of 634.
Individually, W& L’s
Tommy Dudley put to-
gether two solid rounds
to finish second with a .

Afterstrugglingearly I
against E&H, the Gen-
erals stormed back to
take the ﬁrst game 18-
16. Washington and Lee
dominated the next two .
games, winning 15-6

Senior James
Silberstein led
the Generals in
scoring with
four goals. Se-
niors Nathan
Hottle and Pete Sorenson also netted

man Aaron Love is rapidly improving.
Goalies Steve Stanres and Ryan Noble
are improving each game.

    
 

Q: How have you progressed to-
wards your goals?
A: We lost to JHU Saturday 16-1 1, the

- ~ . . . 152. H F k - .

‘W0 80015 apiece "1 the 61707 t;_ rematch is this Friday. They are beatable! the titleoititfgggﬁggf andS1e5n .i1or Vir inia

Washington and Lee’ _Wlll face U of R next week is also a big game, so 613 You led the W8 gwith
Hopkins again tomght, this time in there is still time! ' 14 kiﬁs in .uSt 18la'mack
BlueJay ’s home pool. From there, the Vane ban tt 1 N ~
Generals will travel to George Wash- Q; What do you need to do before 3 y a empts ' ancy

Reinhardt added 7
kills and Megan
Snodgrass contrib-
uted 4 service aces
for the Generals.

ington University in Washington, D. C.

f CWPA game like Richmond next week?
or a tournament.

A: A win against JHU would go a long
way to having us ready. Specifically, we
need to play better ("tighter") defense!

On Wednesday
night, the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s

Q: What were your goals and volleyball team de_

expectations entering the season?
A: To recapture the Division III

Q: What did you do right and wrong .  

 

