 

 Clhiz ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

JMUEQ G. LE‘i’BU."~lN LIBRARY
WASill:\'t.’.lTON & LEE UNNEﬂ8lT‘§'

i..5.'.. l "'TON,\/A M
MF'l*}il-I if "' ‘«‘"L.:"l;.'

 

 

 

 

~44.

    

R .3 
VOLUME _,98. NUMBER 1 0 WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA NOVEMBER 1 , 1 996
In G U W '
I I i
- N I ht
OTES goa in sig
BY KELLEY Tomas
Board Chooses New Rector: PHrSrAi=i=Wiu1Ea
1‘ The Washington and Lee Board of Trustees chose J. Frank .
Surface, Jr., a member of the class of 1960, to succeed its The United Way of LexingtOn—Rockbridge
current rector, A. Steven Miles, Jr. County has reached 60 percent of its fundraising
Surface served as president of the student body and co~ 80111 Since its kick-Off 1658 than two months ago.
captain of the basketball team during his years at W&L and “We have had amazing Support from every-
¢ wasa member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Beta Theta Pi. He One,” EX€Cl1liV8 Director Jeri Schaff Said, “from
is currently the chairman and chief executive officer of retirees to employee groups to companies to the
Community Resource Systems Inc. Surface has been a universities.”
member of the Board of Trustees since 1995 and was previ- All facets of the Washington and Lee commu-
ously a member of the Alumni Board of Directors. rnity support the United Way, Schaff said.
V d “The faculty and staff at W&L are outdoing Photo by Anne Alvord
Tro u b a d 0 r C e | e b rates E | ecﬁo n S: thegfilﬁeosrgglsigﬁggnssgréejig-ﬁnding new ways Author Dinesh D‘Souza, author of The End of Racism, spoke at Lee Chapel last Tuesday.
The Film Society will commemorate the 1996 elections - bd - _ J - - .
y with the showing or sob  a comie.poimc.ai  :.‘.’.::::‘:. iiofit; ;‘:P.*;:.fé‘:;g.:S:.?. D Souza makes impression on listeners
rr dirleicted by Tl(l'iI1fRl(l)(bl3lIlS. Rtobbitrtis plays a right-wingHr)ebel donates an of its proceeds_ At
g;n[‘1‘;;‘i“‘I; ‘:1::‘Ser?ato5r‘,';gc°;'nV:’P;’i Sn 3:}: e5el‘e’c°t§’(;‘l:l"°" 3 ‘ era E h I i 3 in a s time‘; Kappa NEWS ANALYSIS claims. l’ve never thought he was a bigot, as some have
_ , . appa amma also onates the BY DAN ODENWALD suggested, but I was convinced he was off base. Well
Showings Wlll be at 7.30 p.m. on November 1 and 2 at the money they 7 raise durin S ma be not ’
in I Tr°“b3d°r Cinoma- Admission is free’ bu‘ contributions 3” Sigma Chi ’s “Derby Days’g’ Pm “FF WRITER 1); Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Dartmouth he speaks
welcome‘ , in tho Spring. The firstthinglnoticed was his white socks. Yes,his very cogently and makes a compelling argument. Is
“VMI is not as quick '35 white socks. affirmative action the most insidious form of racism?
« B‘-‘Mme’ 5 Peaks °" K'°='“‘-"= W-3%.‘:  . ~  .  :°**:.:‘ ..”*.':::';.‘3. ‘;:ri.Bii:.*;'.:*::: 32:: ‘:.§:.%,g.:::."::*.;*.f:':::;:$°:;°i2:’ 333513323
Followels of Klezmqmlisic’ an Offspring 0-f nineteenth fzziiculty Eniifizh ”ge slgm wan suppo om e . %/er); appropriate for someone who marches to the beat without the paternalistic hand-outs of whites. Is there
Conturl’ E35‘ Europenn Yiddish culture, will enjoy a legture The United way-s goal of $180,000 supports of a different drummer. any such thing as structural racism? Institutional rac-
and muslc presematlon on .Monday’ November 4' . The 18 programs and organizations that served over D’Souza is author oflllebral Education and the End ism?
Pleasures Of Klezmel Musldz Sponsqred hi’ the. rehglon 10 0001oc3l resldonrslast year In 1997 $25 000 ofRacism—two very controversial books which have D’Souza asks the tough questions. He introduces

' department’ “'1” be g1Ve.n by &L Sc‘°n°edl.'bm.“a"  , ‘Wm go to the Rockbridge Aréa Free C’]inic’and stunned the politically correct world. His first book complexity tothe issue. Toooften, the argumentsinthis
rBl:]ckmer. The lecture will be in Northen Au itorium at . 0 $29,000 to the Rockbridge Area Relief Associa- slams the trends toward diversity and r3ulti—cul3:rztilism <1:/fbate I8;r8thC§)li2Zh€d indtjhe ei§iot1i(onal giegoric ofhDr.

" , . . . ' ~ ' " ' 't';' t rac- rt r' so.’ auns
Anyone intereswim more mf°rma"°"°" K‘€Zm°“““S'° “°’~‘r'i.. ,.......,,.r., or ii... funds will support . 12.3 ‘i’§n'3?f.'§§.i§‘;2‘J§.§Z‘§§.i .i.‘?..lfi‘§‘?§‘. upfiéiievis that iii‘ illgﬁagi oi’"§.Zl'i..g°?$? 3.“. lailiguageouozf :ociaI
0’ Otyertypes Ofethmc mus": may See Blackmer Swebpagfas varlory of groups including Arc of Rockbridge the goals of a liberal education are lost, and the free- science and academia. I _ . s
1‘ h"P‘//www'w1:b'led‘1:/"hblaCl(m;/k§ez/ and httpﬂ County, a retarded citizens association; scout doms of speech and thought are imperiled. He also Iwouldn’t say my opinions about racism, affirma-
www.wIu.edu/~ ac me./musics. tm . ‘mops’ 4_H aﬂdrhepockhddge Regional Lil,rary_ lgelieves tha‘tj those who seek to end rtacitsr3,lacttiitz;1]lly iiv‘;=.acdtic>trki1,ormulgi-Eylturalisrngririecessarilychanged.
_ . ave aveste interest in seeing it perpe ua e , es ey n ee , ey pro a y aren’ , u encourage you 0
Adams Presents COUOQUIUITIZ For more information on how to support me be without a cause. . read.D’Souza’s.work. Inthe age of Louis Farrakhan and
Assistant professor Edward Adams of rho w&L English . United Way, ca1[463.4482_ _ When I wandered into Lee Chapel on Wednesday David Duke, his intellectual approach IS a much wel-
‘ department will present “‘A Walking Moral’: Wordsworth, night, I fully expected to take exception to D Souza s comed change.
Virgil, Meredith, and Trevelyan” for followers of a series of
colloquia sponsored by the department recently. , . . . ’
Adams teaches nineteenth century British literature arid S -or-trt r '

,‘ has a Ph.D. from Yale University. The lecture will be held in   I

V = Payne 21 on Thursday, November 7 at 4:00 p.m. The public ’ ' '

...................... Halloween provides opportunity _h S B
Law School Solves Mysteries: for interaction with community Wit A
Asymposium on “The Future of the Unincorporated Firm” h th d th

.. K will attempt to clear up the mysteries surrounding The Re— BY C- E Mm-ER gisgegggrcsﬁsocinnoi on ecan y ga _ 0 1%]: 1[;:M x:/JADLKIZWSVEDITOR
vised Uniform Partnership Act. Corporate and legal scholars PHI STAFF WRITER ‘ ‘ -r The loéal"Chilaren isérédéd dawn‘ ih "5 ‘ ’ I SEA“
will .d1.ScuSS the drastic changes made'lb7HLh°i°a9t;'whlCh Iflwerestill11,thiswouldbethe day ‘large and small groups, ohhoing and Lastyear,iiwasBreakdancing, Ki$
V"g1maa.d°pted' Thewashmgton and Le? Umvlemty 0:1 to end all days. November 1, the day ahhing at the assortment of candy pro- and spiked hair, 'I‘his year, it is Disco,

ii of Law Wm Sponsoigle ﬁvoipan Sﬁmgoigﬁ’ ac/).ng MD t .6 after Halloween, the day when school vided by local buisnesses. _ high school students. This is the first F]eetwoodMacandbellbottoms. 'lhat’s
Washmgpn & Lee W ewew an t ‘"3 Ur mmg avls lunch meant Mr. Goodbars, and hard as Lambda Xi Alpha gets into the busi_- year for such an event._ Rockbridge right; as the rest of the civilized world
Foundation. , . ,, . rock gum. The day we spent our recess ness of spooks and frights to benefit County Community Service board, and races toward the 21st century, W&L is

The Future of the Unmcorporated Flrm W1“ take P 12-we trading candy. Those were the days. Untied Way. Each year the fraternity the Lexington Police approached the In- falling back by decades,
Frldfay’ November 15. at m: Iii” S.ch°01'f The mqmlrﬁg Halloween doesn’t go unnoticed in puts on a huanted house. This was the terfraternity Council with the idea of with the success of last years 80’s

‘ Eisizloargsvtllgeigégggsﬁeggn °wi1lglz;t£:SS:n rrégnggibyllittieg Lexington. This small town goes all out. 17th ‘annual Lambda Haunted _House. havingone of the fraternities help with theme, the Student Activity Board has

* ’ . . g P Washington and Lee University students Admission was .75 cents per child, and the project. decided to turn back the clock even far-
of new ﬁrms to thlrd parties’ use it as a chance to serve the commu- all the money is donated to United Way. We volunteered, because it is a nice rherand oﬁera“70’s Dance Party” with

nity. Many houses and dorm rooms were “We_ decorate each room in the base- community _ service project,” Said T.J. rho hand Gran Torino kicking out those
Symphony Opens Season: litup by jack-o-lantemlights and strewn merit differently, keeping some things Griffin, senior. great 70’s hits,
The University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra will with fake cobwebs. Downtown had its from years past and adding new stuff FIJI opened their house to the stu- students arm’: required to go home
‘ open its 1996-97 season on Saturday, November 9 at 8 p.m. own witch and many of the business each time,” said Greg Metz, sophomore. dents who were looking forafun place to and dig through their parents closets in
in rho Lenfesr conic; decorated their storefronts. “This is a really popular event that raises be on Halloween night. They decorated, or-dor to partake of this event, but with a
The 75 member orchestra, under the direction on Wash- The annual Zollman’s Halloween money for a great cause.” . and offered entertainment and snacks for oosturneadmissionisfree. Forthosewho
ington and Lee University associate professor of music, Barry party was Wednesday night. Shag band Each year there are funny things that the students. . anetoo squearmsh to give uptheir khakis
H. Kolman, is made up of talented students and local residents played to a delighted crowd. Many stu- happen with the children who gothrough. Chi—Omega carved Jack-o-lantems for for benbottonm’ ihcoostwrllbe $3 at the
q joined by outstanding local musicians. Orchestra member- dents dressed up for the occasion. lvletz cites an experience he viewed dur- halloyyeen. They put them out a week door_
ship is open to the public. Anyone interested may contact Thursday afternoon offered students ing last year shouse. There was this one ago. We usually put them out before “Everyone atw&Lloves any op;
olman at 463-8856. the O rtunit to ecome invo ve in a . i w o ecame rea y scare uring e aren s wee en , u 1 was ear y is rtunit to at resse in cos umes,
K ppo'yb ‘Id jykdhb ll_d.d thP t’ kdbtt ‘lth po'ygd d t
community tradition. The Lexington tour, and ranoutthebackinto hismother’s year, and people started smashing the SA]; committee member Eri
. Downtown Association organizes trick- arms. Then after he had calmed down he last night,” said Amanda Bradford, jun- Harrison said, “Last year, the 80’s
Groups Offer Sup°rt' . or-treating at many ofthe local business went up to his friend in line and said it ior. ” dance was so much fun and we ex-
‘' Aoonﬁdennal 5"PPo1't gTo“P W1” SW1 moe"n8Wo°k1Yf°1' in the downtown area. The local school wasn’tscary at all and he couIdn’twaitto Halloween provided an opportunity cc: this to be as much, if not more
. . _ _ , P
Wasnlngton and Leo “’o_'non Wno n3V° °XP°”en°od_5°x“a1 children dress up and walk around the go back in. for many student and organizations to fun_”
assault/abuse at anytimeintheirlives. Each rriembersigns an downrwon aroa, Phi Gamma Delta (FIJI) also helped become involved with the community. SojumpinyourVWBugandjointhe
agreement of oonfldonflallty fit the ﬁrs‘ m°onn8- _ Kappa Alpha Theta helps the com- the local community by hosting a sub- Sometimes thebest treatsare those given funwcdnesday,November6from9-12.
A 5"PPo“ 8ro"P W1“ begin for Women Who 3‘? doollng munity out by taking those children stance free Halloween "party for local with a helping hand. -

d with binge eating, binge/purge eating or very restricted eat-
ing. If you are facing any of these problems in your life, you
are invited to join this confidential group which meets weekly.

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service secre-
tary at 8590 or the Student Health Service at 8401 to learn of
1 times and locations.
— compiled by Peggy Stuntz
I 0 .
 _, A - 8 ‘.
4th” and Cistreets, ~ .
* ’ihl”hetsofmoriei‘bein  ’ , .__. _ _ ~
6 wd,,° afidépigpamd for s_hi)l)ping§Vp:sliIfor center  ,,u§t.,_1?e_Iephiant;:Cu{r¢nt‘exl;2b- -- 
“ ' shop where youcanbuybagsof shredded . ‘d Eyes _'Science:; Illustrating Natgsral
I» >OPiNioN     
Betsy Green freaks out about graduating.
Election Issue wrap-ups.
I
P FEAT U R E S
k The CDPO can help you realize your dream
' job or internship. Cultures converge in the
International House. Phi Eta Sigma, honors
the achievements of the class of 1999.
P S P 0 RT S
‘ ' “ Generals hold off Sewanee
on the grid—iron, 24-21.
' Women’s soccer shuts out
Randolph-Macon in ODAC
quarterfinal match, 5-0. Vol-
, leyball team continues to de-
vour ODAC opponents.

 

  

PAGE 2

The Seniors and

OPINION The Ring-tum Phi, NOVEMBER 1, 1996

‘ﬂ I

 

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

Last Thursday I entered into a
reality I’m not quite ready for. I
ordered my grﬁduation announce-
ments, cap and gown. I guess it’s
official now. I’m really a senior,
and I’m really graduating. If you’re
a senior too, you know how weird
it is.

Beingaseniorchanges yourout-
look on everything. Every little
thing about W&L and Lexington
seem sacred. This feeling will
probably only get worse as June 5
gets closer. Right now, I’m over-
whelmed by the beauty of the Col-
onnade through fog. I love seeing
familiar faces on the hill. By spring
term, I’ll probably feel equal nos-
talgia for the library, Watson Pa-

. vilion and Woods Creek. The pros-

pect of buying a blue book will

I have me awash in a flood of senti-
- mental tears.

I just keep thinking that soon all

I ofthe thingsl do here I’ll be doing
,1 for the last time. Soon, we seniors
, will have to face our last Christmas
; in Lexington, our last FD, our last

“Being a student
is what I ’ve done
since six. Now
we all have to
ﬁgure out some-
thing else.”

 PE classes and our last finals. It’s
2 a wonder we don’t spend all of our
i time at The Palms in a big group
 hug. This summerAshley LaForge
l and I practiced clinging to the col-
 umns of the Colonnade so they
 can’t make us graduate.
. long, we’ll see more and more se-
. niors latching on. ‘ ' i * ' 0

Before

Incidentally, how much does it

the real world

suck that we had to pay $28 for our
graduation costumes? Since I
might wear it for a total of four
hours, it hardly seems like a good
investment. In fact, I’m pretty sure
I have the sheer white one Iwore in
high school wadded up in a comer
of my mom’s house. A little black
spray paint, and I’ll be good to go.
Anyway, I have a suggestion. As
soon as the caps and gowns come
in, let’s start wearing them all the
time to class. Relaxing at home.
Not only will we start a hip new
trend, but it will be money well
spent. Who’s with me?

Actually, it’s the time after the
caps and gowns, after the cham-
pagne and sheepskin that I think
freaks us out the most. Being a
student is what l’ve done since I
was six. Now we all have to figure
out something else. Graduate
school, for some us, is no longer a
track to a brilliant career so much
as a way to delay one.

I remember when I was a fresh-
man, I was as certain of my future
plans as any eighteen year-old can

. be in all my shining ignorance.

Now who knows? One thing’s for
sure though —— we seniors are try-
ing to find out. Most of us have
“Job Search” notebooks, and not
only do we have a complete, up-to-
date resume, we have then with us
at all times. You know, just in case
I run into Bill Gates in line at
Harris Teeter, and he wants to of-
fer me a job. Hey, it could happen.

Really, being a senior adds yet
another stress to our lives. While
younger students are complaining,
“I have three midterms, two pa-

lpers, and four meetings to go to

tonight,” seniors will add, “Also, I
have to find a happy, fulfilling, and
lucrative career.”

No wonder all the disgruntled
freshmen make us so angry. They
don’t realize how good they’ve got
it. I wish we could take back out
graduation robes, announcements,
and class rings, but we can’t. It’s
time to forge ahead. But before we
go, let’s enjoy ourtime here while
we still can.

Quote of the Week:

“Great! When someone sweeps me off my
feet, I know what to do I’ll say ‘put me
down now!”’

- anonymous sophomore speaking of his love life

 

  

i..,,e..sm..r I

cam in .KQﬂ5<L.S
makes 531’ o. -'

    
 

November 5, 1996

    

The Pummeling on the Potomac

Decision ’96: Dole VS. Clinton

Week #5: Closing Arguments

Vote for other Democrats so Clinton
can achieve his domestic agenda

Countdown to the
election. . .

4
 DAYS

Since we are simply wrapping up our argu-
ments this week, there is no real issue to discuss.
So, I decided to describe the race as a horse race.

“ Welcome, folks, to the 1 996 PotomacDerby.
Starting in Gate 1 is Clinton, with jockey Al
Gore. In gate 2 is Dole, riden by jockey Jack

,Kemp. . . .

“And they’re off. The candidates round turn
one, Clinton jumps out to the early lead and Dole
is caught up in the pack. Powell suddenly stops
and walks calmly off the track. Buchanan,
Alexander, and Gramm are leading the pack.

“Heading into the back stretch, Dole is pull-
ing away from the pack, and Clinton's lead is
shrinking. Gramm and Buchanan trip and fall,
while Alexander pulls up a little gimpy.

“Clinton pulls slowly away heading into the
final turn. We are in the home stretch, Clinton
leads by about a half mile over Bob .Dole. Dole
tries to make one last sprint, but falls ﬂat on his
face. Clinton slows down and trots across the
finish line. Payment I .'1. ”

On the right again this week isJason Zacher
’98, The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor. On the
left will be Laura Knapp ’99, our Democratic
columnist.

“From the Left” discusses the local congres-
sional race and senate race. “From the Right”
focuses on Bill Clinton ’s inability to make deci-
sions in the international arena.

- Jason Zacher
Editorial Editor

From the Left
Laura Knapp ’99

With less than a week to go until the election,
I think that it is pretty safe to say that Bill Clinton
will not be needing any change of address forms.
So let’s turn our attention to two Congressional
races in which the Democratic candidates are not
ensured victory like Bill Clinton but are indeed
highly worthy of it.

If there was ever a column in which I was
going to receive hate mail, it will be this one.
There is some irony in the fact that I, a professed
liberal and Washington & Lee student (ironic in

itself), am endorsing Mark Warner for Senator »

and Jeff Grey for Congress over W&L graduates
John Warner and Bob Goodlatte. As much as I
am proud of our graduates, serving such es-
teemed positions and giving W&L the national
attention that it deserves, an examination of the
issues in the campaign as well as the records of
both John Warner and Bob Goodlatte will prove
that they are not the best choice for the future of
the nation.

One of the most important issues in this cam-
paign is in regards to higher education. I might
be going out on a limb, but I am guessing that this
is a fairly important issue for a number of W&L
students as well as many students on campuses
around the nation. Both Mark Warner and Jeff
Grey feel very strongly about providing the
opportunity to attend college to every deserving
and able high school student. There are so many
high school graduates in America today that do
not even consider college or any form of higher
education because of the mere fact that they do
not posses the means to pay for it. In an age in
which a college degree and increasingly a gradu-
ate degree is needed for success, it is indeed sad
that these students who obviously worked to
their fullest potential in high school cannot con-
tinue with their studies. Honestly, if such a
system of denying deserving students the oppor-

tunity to attend college, what incentive is
there for them to work in high school? Mark
Warner and Jeff Grey want to prevent such
an occurrence. They both support direct
student loans and tax breaks for college
tuition and vocational training. However,
John Warner and Bob Goodlatte voted to cut
student loans by $10 billion dollars. John
Warner voted against direct student loans
and an innovative career training projects in
the School to Work Act. They want to
deprive students of a chance to increase their
possibilities towards success. How would
you, as a college student, feel if your tuition
payments were to disappear suddenly and
you would have to leaye school? If the
government has the ability to help its citi-
zens in such a positive way - all big govem-
ment complaints aside - then, why shouldn’t
they? This is how Mark Warner and Jeff
Grey feel and, if elected, would carry out a
policy that would protect student loans and
allow high school graduates the opportunity
to attend college.

Another important issue in this campaign
is the topic of Social Security and Medicare.
It is an bipartisan-acknowledged fact that
Social Security and Medicare will have run
our of funds by the time that our generation
reaches the age of 65. Both Mark Warner
and Jeff Grey support measures that will
continue both of these institutions while
John Warner and Bob Goodlatte have voted
to cut $270 billion in Medicare for a $245 tax
break for wealthy Americans. Does this
make any sense? America needs leaders that
support the needs of our senior citizens as
well as taking in account future generations.

Although I should be overly content that
the Democrats are retaking the presidency, I
strongly believe that Mark Warner and Jeff
Grey deserve victory on November 5. Like
President Clinton, they are the best choice
for the future of America -students, seniors
and citizens alike.

@112 itiug-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor ................................................................ . .Anne Alvord
Managing Editor ........................................................... ..Hillary Coombs
News Editor ....................................................................... ..Tarah Grant
Assistant News Editor ....................................................... ..Tom Wadlow
Editorial Page Editor ........................................................ ..Jason Zacher
Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman
Features Editor ................................................................. ..Dave Balsley
Photography Editor ............................................................. ..Sam Levine
Business Manager ............................................................. ..Will Hershey
Advertising Manager .......................................................... . .Chip Harrell

Circulation Managers ............................. ..Daniel Harrell. Justin Laborde

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phl comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-
dent. I

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi ofiice, room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum
Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters.
columns, and “My Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel
and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Oﬁice Box 899
Leidngton. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: [540] 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

America needs leadership, and needs to be a

From the Right
Jason Zacher ’98

The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor

In the past four years, America
has seen a dramatic shift in its
foreign policy. Four years ago,
President George Bush provided a
sure-footed, directed foreign
policy. Today, we have Bill
Clinton.

Bill Clinton‘s foreign policy is
afflicted with a typical male dis-
ease, he refuses to stop and ask for
directions when lost. From Bosnia,
to Haiti, to China, the Clinton Ad-
ministration has shown a tremen-
dous lack of direction.

When Bill Clinton was elected,
he claimed that George Bush had
as much of a right to claim he
ended the Cold War as the rooster
had for making the sun come up.
Bill Clinton’s only major foreign
achievement, the Mid-East Peace
process, is much the same way.
Former Secretary of State James
Baker Ill, got the process on its
way toward the “achievements”
that Clinton has taken credit for.

Then there is the rock-solid ne-

gotiating stance our administra-
tion maintains. When North Ko-
rea struggled for a nuclear weapon,
and finally looked as if they were
going to achieve it, Bill Clinton
said that there is no way the North
Korea would be allowed to be-
come a nuclear state. But when

push came to shove, Clinton backed

down, instead telling North Korea
they could basically keep what they
had as long as they do not produce
any more, and threw in a nuclear
reactor to boot. This greatly con-
tributed to an insecure feeling South
Korea and Japan feel,knowing how
trustworthy North Korea is.

Upon his election in 1992,
Clinton told the American people
that China would not have their
Most Favored Nation trading sta-
tus renewed if they could not con-
trol the intellectual pirating and
improve their human rights record.
In a masterful bit of eleventh hour
negotiating, Clinton backed down,
deciding that Most Favored Na-
tion status should not be linked to
these issues.

Clinton will also tell you that he
helped contain Saddam Hussein.
Many analysts feel that Hussein
wanted an administration with little

direction, and wanted to bolster
Clinton’s approval rating. This
also happened right near the Re-
publican convention; good timing
to steal the headlines. Clinton did
make the right decision to bomb
Iraq again, but maybe he should

“Bill Clinton’s

foreign policy is

afflicted with a
typical male
disease, he re-
fuses to stop
and ask for di-
rections when
lost.”

decide on a meaning for “propor-
tional response.” , '
There- are many other foreign
policy bungles that the Clinton ad-
ministration has participated in, lest
we forget the Japanese trade crisis,
Haiti and Bosnia. His newest bro-

leader in the world

ken promise is when our troops
would be coming home from
Bosnia. Before he sent troops,
Clinton should have seen that peace
cannot be kept in the region with-
out a major power sitting on them
(Tito’s Yugoslavia worked pretty
well). I did not think that our
troops would actually come home
by Christmas, but Clinton should
have never made that promise.

Since it seems like a foregone
conclusion that Clinton will be back
in the White House until the year
2000, we can only hope he switches
his Secretary of State. Lee
Hamilton (D-IN), would be a pre-
fect choice for Secretary of State in
the next administration. I do not
know how any foreign leader can
take Warren Christopher seriously;
he could not negotiate his way out
of a parking ticket.

With the ﬁnal days of the elec-
tion here, the American people need
to decide what is important. One
of the most important things is a
non-partisan, issue: our country‘s
place in the world. In the wake of
the Cold War, the world needs
leadership from the United States.
With our current president, this

leadership is non—existant.

D

 

NOVEMBER 1 , 1996

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
Pm STAFF WRrrER

One day you were a carefree, drooling, rosy-cheeked
toddler, with only Strawberry Shortcake or GI Joe on your
mind. The next minute you were a carefree, but self-
conscious, pimple-faced six grader, with only the boy in
English or the girl in Biology on your mind. Then you
wake up from the haze which was high school and you’re
here, at Washington and Lee, wondering when you grew
up. Sometimes it seems that the future is creeping up too
fast, and we fear the bureaucracies of the real world. But
above all, we fear the job search, and the long and fright-
ening road of rejection that some encounter. Choosing a
college deﬁnes four years of your life. Choosing a career
deﬁnes your entire life.

W&L offers an excellent alternative to stressing about
ﬁnding a job or internship. The Career Development
Ofﬁce (CDPO) aids students in their job/internship search
in various areas.

“We help students to develop marketing skills, formu-
late a dymamic job search letter, as well as teach them how
to make alumni connections, “ says Beverly Lorig, Direc-
tor of Career Development and Placement.

“We have programs like SLAC (Selective Liberal Arts
Consortium) where students submit their resumes to vari-
ous participating employers across the country.” says
Lorig. There are many other programs similar to SLAC
offered where students can meet the employers face to
face. Mrs. Lorig also encourages students to attend a career
day for minorities at University of Virginia next week.

The CDPO offers help to student of all majors. “If a
student has a speciﬁc place where he or she wants to work,
say, San Fransisco, is an English major, and wants to work

W8: life

@Dl?@ makee areame e

for an advertising ﬁrm, we will do everything we can
to make that fantasy job come true,” say Beverly
Lorig. “Career Development is the happening place

 , . . . .. 3 yx
Within these hallowed walls:
The CDPO offers job and internship
assistance to all W&L students.

on campus. No matter what ﬁeld a student wants to go
into, whether its entertainment, investment banking,
or writing for Vanity Fair, we can help.”

CDPO offers a myriad of strategies for internship
hunting as well. The internship data base, which one
can use without an appointment, is extremely sucessful
in ﬁnding the internship of your dreams. “ Students
applying for internships at W&L are extremely
sucessful in obtaining them,” says Lorig.

CDPO recomends time tables for W&L students at
all stages of the game. The timetables are listed in a
pamphet that students can pick up when they stop by
Career Development. “ We just want everyone to
know that we just don’t offer services to seniors, but
to everyone.”

Freshman should become familar with the CDPO,
use a computerized career guidance sytem, and ex-
plore summer work and internships. Sophomores
should attend presentations about careers, update re-
sumes, and declare a major. Juniors should be think-
ing about contacts with professors in their career
interest area, meet with a member of CDPO to discuss
career goals, and perhaps take either th GRE’s, LSAT’s,
or GMAT’s. Seniors should attend job fairs, request
employment references from professors, and partici-
pate in on-campus interviews.

CDPO offers a “quick question” time every
Wednesday afternoon, Thursday morning, and Friday
afternoon, where students can come in without an
appointment to ask any question about formulating
sucessful job or internship search skills or strategy.

To make an appointment with the CDPO to dis-
cuss career goals, call Beverly Lorig or Amy Hartzell
at 463-8595.

I-House harbors international students

BY WILLIAM OVERBAUGH
PHI STAFF WRITER

A small, white building stands on Lee
Avenue next to University Publications.

Often, if you venture inside at night,
you’ll discover a group of people tasting
Chinese cuisine. On another night, you
may ﬁnd a group watching the news in
Russian. Once in awhile you may even
experience a Patoi Jessen.

What is it that brings these cultures
together under one roof? The Intema-

"itional Club! ‘

-The I-Club, as it is called, seeks to
provide a support group for international
students trying to adjust to the United
States and Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. It also tries to reach out to the
American students who are interested in

The I-House brings multi-cultural events to W&L.

other cultures.

About half of the members are Ameri-
cans, the others representing about twenty
countries.

The club hosts parties and picnics for
members and will have several activities
for the whole school as well.

December 5 will be the “Night
Abroad,” an evening of entertainment
showing different aspects of the cultures
present in the club.

Later in the school year, the club will
organize an “International Folk Dance
Festival,” three weekends of folk danc-
ing from around the world.

So next time you’re on your way
to the post office, glance over your
shoulder and think about what might
be going on inside. On your way
back, stop in!

Phi Eta Sigma inductees honored for academics

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDrroR

Every year, Washington and Lee University wel-
comes some of the nation’s most talented students into
its freshman class. Of these freshmen, only the most
proficient are honored with admission into
Phi Eta Sigma.

Last Friday, ﬁfty-six sophomores were inducted into
the Washington and Lee chapter of Phi Eta Sigma. The
requirement for admission into the society was a G.P.A.
of 3.5 or better during the freshman year.

Washington and Lee University’s course catalogue

describes Phi Eta Sigma as “a national honor society for
the recognition of high scholastic attainment among
freshmen.” Phi Eta Sigma was founded in order to
honor freshmen who “demonstrate promise of contin-
ued excellence and scholarship.” Phi Eta Sigma first
appeared at the University of Illinois in 1923 and has
since spread across the United States. The W&L
chapter of Phi Eta Sigma, which was founded in 1937,
is one of over 250 chapters nationwide.

“Whereas Phi Beta Kappa recognizes excellence
over an entire academic career, Phi Eta Sigma inspires
and rewards students early in their academic careers,”
commented Dean Cecile West-Settle, Associate Dean
of the College.

West-Settle, who oversees the W&L chapter of Phi
Eta Sigma, could not attend the ceremony last Friday.
In her absence, Dean Laurent Boetsch, Dean of the
College, conducted the induction ceremony. In accor-
dance with the tradition of inviting one of the university’s
professors to speak at the ceremony, Professor Eduardo
A. Velasquez, Professor of Politics, gave an address
entitled “On the ‘Liberality’ and ‘Artifice’
of Liberal Arts.”

West-Settle points to the society’s limited admission
as testimony of both its high standards and of the
prestige which it contributes to W&L. “The fact that we
have a Phi Eta Sigma chapter here attests to the excel-
lence of our school,” commented West-Settle.

Nl8hli OWl’S 80t The 39333" Shakespeare ‘Blooms in Lex

BY KELLEY TOTTEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

Beatnik Allen Ginsberg and
friends will be in Lexington from
November 1-30.

A photography exhibit by Gordon
Ball entitled “Allen Ginsberg and
the Beat Fellows” is showing in the
back room of Night Owl Music Co.

as aesthetically.”

Wayne Raynal, owner of Night
Owl, started holding exhibits in the
back room a year and a half ago.
Raynal has friends who are artists
and wanted to do something with the
unused space. Raynal decided the
exhibits would be good a good way
to encourage amateurs.

“I do this for fun,” Raynal said,
“not for profit.”

PAGE 3

A charming revenge fantasy:

The First
Wives Club

vkarﬁntr of 4
stars;
Chock full
0’ laughs

The pitch:
“It'II be like
She-Devil
without
Roseanne.”

Alex Christensen
Phi Movie Critic

If you have seen She-Devil, a not-bad comedy from the
eighties featuring Roseanne, Ed Begley, Jr., and Meryl
Streep(!), just multiply it by three Roseannes and you will
have the basic idea of what The First Wives Club is like. Both
are equally dark. However, The First Wives Club is also much

funnier, and therefore much more successful. It’s mainly ‘

funnier because it features three great comic actresses. Goldie
Hawn, Diane Keaton, and Bette Midler. Among them, they
have two Oscars (Hawn and Keaton) and four other Oscar
nominations. Nothing to sneeze at.

After a Roy Liechtenstein-inspired credit sequence which
is garish and tacky, there is an extremely weird yet fun set of
scenes from the college graduation of the Diane Keaton,
Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler, and Stockard Channing charac-
ters in which all of the characters are played by young
actresses who look like the marquis stars. To make sure they
sound like them as well, the director has had their voices
dubbed by the real actresses. It’s odd to see young versions of
Goldie Hawn, Diane Keaton, Bette Midler, and Stockard
Channing, especially when you can see them young them-
selves in Cactus Flower, The Godfather, The Robe, and Grease,
respectively, and the young actresses look nothing like them
then, though they do look like they might be their daughters or
neices or something.

After this, we are updated to the future, where we see that
the four characters, who pledged to be friends for life, have
barely kept in touch at all. The suicide of the Stockard
Channing character precipitates a reunion between the other
three. Hawn has become a successful Hollywood star, Midler
works in a design ﬁrm headed by the wonderful Bronson
Pinchot in his usual role (Funny Accent Guy), and Diane
Keaton is a housewife trying to patch up her marriage. After
Keaton’s marriage fails, the three hatch a plot to get revenge
on their husbands.

The ﬁlm is quite short on plot. You certainly can’t step
backat the end and say, “I never saw that one coming!” You
see them all coming. But the fun is in getting there.

Robert Harling, who wrote Steel Magnolias, wrote the
screenplay from Olivia Goldsmith’s novel, and Paul Rudnick,
the writer of Jeffrey, S isterAct, and/lddams Family Values,
did an uncredited polish on the script. As a result, what might
have been uneven or even stupid with the wrong writer or
actresses becomes jam-packed with laughs, big and little.

The scene where the three ﬁrst wives visit a lesbian bar to
enlist Keaton’s character’s daughter (Jennifer Dundas) in the
plot against the husbands is really hilarious. Goldie Hawn
hasn’t had so much fun in the movies in years.

Diane Keaton is undoubtedly the stand-out in this cast, as
indeed she is in any movie she appears in. Goldie Hawn gives
her best performance since the wonderful Housesitter with
Steve Martin. Hopefully her performance here will be a good
prelude to her upcoming role in Woody Allen’s musical
comedy, Everyone Says I Love You. Bette Midler is perfect
as usual, and Stockard Channing, as sort of the odd-woman
out, nevertheless does an admirable job with her big suicide
scene. Why Stockard Channing doesn’t get more great parts
is beyond comprehension. The supporting cast also includes
Dan Hedaya, Stephen Collins, Marcia Gay Harden, Maggie
Smith, Philip Bosco, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Elizabeth
Berkley (perfect for her part). Watch out for cameos by Olivia
Goldsmith, Ivana Trump, Lea DeLaria, Rob Reiner, Kathie
Lee Gifford, Ed Koch, Heather Locklear, Debra Monk and
Gloria Steinem.

In the ﬁnal analysis, The First Wives Club will not cure the
common cold or solve any of the world’s problems. It doesn’t
even make sense in places. But you’ll also find some of the

on Jefferson Street. The photographs
follow 23 years of Ginsberg’s life
from San Francisco to New York to
Jackson, Miss.

Ball, an English and Fine Arts
professor at VMI, took up photogra-
phy when he was a kid growing up in
Tokyo, Japan. Family members have
influenced his work, he said, espe-
cially his grandfather who was a
portrait photographer.

“Also my wife,” Ball said, “who has
helped me see things for many years.”

Ball was acquainted with
Ginsberg and other members of the
beat generation when he decided to
start photographing them. The pho-
tographs on display will be for sale,
includingonewhichcapturesleeRanaldo,
guitarist for Sonic Youth, reading Jack
Kerouac’s “On The Road” while being
photographed by Ginsberg.

“I love photography and I like my
work,” Ball said. “I’d like to think it
has some value historically, as well

courte y oayne Raynal

Sandals not included.

FROM PHI STAFF REPORTS

Claire Bloom doesn’tmindbeingalone.

Bloom isthe only star ofa one-woman
show portraying the women characters
of Shakespeare. Her show will grace the
Washington and Lee Keller stage on Sat-
urday, November 16 at 8:00 p.m.

Bloom, who made her stage debut at
16 and her Hollywood debut opposite
Charlie Chaplin in Limelight , has spent
her notable career between England and
the U.S. working with such distinguished
stars as Paul Scofield, Richard Burton,
Woody Allen, John Geilgud, and the
Martha Graham Dance Company.

Her show, staged without costumes or

props, showcases her extraordinary gift
for breathing life into some of
Shakespeare’s most fascinating women.
Slipping effortlessly in and out of roles,
Bloom becomes Desdemona, Viola,
Portia, Katherine of Argon, Volumnia,
and Juliet, and at times truly seems to be
talking to, arguing with, beseeching and
berating, loving and loathing all the in-
visible characters aroundher.

“Claire Bloom,” said one reviewer, “is
wise, magical, and spellbinding,” and, added
another, “treats the audience to an staging of
mamy of the Bard’s best loved lines.”

Tickets are now on sale at the Lenfest
Center Box Ofﬁce. The Box Office can
be reached at 463-8000.

biggest laughs of the year.

Ihdnnfintheddxdl
BY ANDREA EWING
PHI STAFF WRITER

“Jocks, Greeks, Booze, and Violence”-not unoornrnon terms on college
campuses and the title of a speech given by Dr. Joel Fish on October 29th.

The presentation by Student Athlete Mentors addressed the
myths and facts about these groups and their vulnerability to
substance abuse and violence.

Coach Mike Walsh attended a NCAA conference last year at
which Dr. Fish spoke. Fish impressed Coach Walsh, and the SAMs
decided to try to engage him. The mentors received a $500 NCAA
grant which they used to bring Dr. Fish to Washington and Lee.

Fish has previously addressed the National Association of Basketball
Coaches, Temple University and University of Florida on topics including
“Gaining the Mental Edge” and “Stereotypes & Diversity.”

Dr. Fish is a sport psychologist of thirteen years experience. He
has worked with amateur and professional athletes and is currently
a sport psychology consultant for the Philadelphia Phillies, the
Philadelphia 76ers, and the USA Women’s National Soccer Team.
He is also the sport psychologist at St. Paul’s (PA) University and
the Director of The Center For Sport Psychology in Philadelphia.

“I enjoyed the enthusiasm and excitement that Dr. Fish used while giving
his talk,” Noah Egorin a member and elected ofﬁoer of the SAMs stated.

Dr. Fish’s talk is not the only activity of the SAMs this year.
According to Egorin, the SAMs held a picnic earlier this fall to
introduce athletes to their teams and get them involved in SAMs
activities. They also sold t—shirts to raise money for future programs. The
SAMS look forward to a great year with more speakers and projects.

 
    
 
  
  
   
     
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
   

'‘‘q,‘‘, ‘,5. r.

ADVERTISING/ CARTOON The Ring-tum Phi, NOVEMBER 1, 1996

JO  BY JEREMY MCNAMEE

A number of fall sports teams championship back to Lexington after likely meet Roanoke College in the
aretakingpartinODACpostseason a one-year hiatus. Nat Messmore, semiﬁnal roundon Saturdaywith an
play this weekend. Carson Flowers and Natasha eye on getting another shot at

Both the men’s and women’s Dorofeeva will lead the way in the Randolph—Macon, currently ranked
cross country teams were off last Generals’title drive. Host Lynchburg eighth in the nation. The Generals are
week as they geared up for is also expected to challenge for both looking to avenge a 1-010$ to the Yel-
Saturday’s ODAC championship titles. lowlackets earlier thisseason
meet at Lynchburg College. The The women’s soccer team ad— Themen’ssoccerteamand
men are gunning for their third vanced to the semifinals of the ODAC the volleyball team will have their
straight title, behind 1995 ODAC tournament with its 5-0 win over final tuneupsthisweekend in prepa-
Runner of the Year, Jason Callen. Randolph-Macon Women’s College ration for next week’s ODAC tour-
ThewomenseektobringtheODAC on Wednesday. The Generals will nament action.

   
  
  

        
  
 

   
 
    
  

ll “
$6)‘

.10

History Registration
Monday, November 4

Newcomb Room 3 for ALL HISTORY COURSES- All Professors

 
  
    

if 1
apjrvrlllfflié

@1995 G.'in']my Inc.
Dost. byTnbune Med

 

         
     
     
 

OBJECTION!

ARGUMENTATIVE! MONDAY‘

8:30-Noon: Senior History Majors
Noon-4:30: All Seniors

YOU GUYS ARE
WATCHING TOO MUCH
OF THIS 0.J. TRIAL.

We save half of the 300 level spaces for juniors, through Tuesday.
TUESDAY:

8:30-Noon: Junior History Majors
Noon-4:30: All Juniors

    
 

WEDNESDAY:

Sophomores
We save half of the spaces in 102, 108, 131 and a block of
spaces in 103 and 110 for freshmen.

. DEPENDING 
ON WHERE -‘
( _ vou SIT.

THURSDAY: ,,
Freshmen

If you have questions about history registration, see Ms.
Ashworth, Newcomb Room 3.

  
   
 
    

  

   
       

 

     

 
 
 
  
  

 
 
  

C I5 ms WHAT'S
3 KNOWN AS A
z HANDS-ON
it MANAGEMENT
:2 _ 8
2: —_._—,¢ r— «. A . . e
— =— I '1 NO \ _ -« vou RE IN our:
2 gllAJr2g:3lv\E CHARGE. _ \Kx\,§‘ 0‘  FREQUENT FRYER
3; FOR THE ONION \ Q  A/G PROGRAM.
E RINGS, F402. \7 E 75'
5 3 K‘ \-
A a
E
- e
""3
HEY. YOU . , I THINK I CAUGHT . 3 ~
NTERRUPTED W «s . ': vou IN THE 5LEEPlNG ,
TRAIN OF THOUGHT. CA}: A5A|N_ _ WHO“ 9009 BUT I WOULDN'T
CHOLESTEROL LEVEL 2.
I5 SKY HIGH! GIVE IT A SECOND

    
 

it

995 Tril»-inc Media Servlus, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  

 

  
    

.\ v
\\ “L 

L’

   
    
 
     
         

  

A little about us...

Hechts operates 71 quality department stores under the names Hechts and Strawbridgeis ,
with $2 billion in annual sales.

 

We cordially invite you to attend a Reception Information session

Thursday, October 24, 5 pm » 7 pm l
Washington and Lee University Center, Room 109
r Casual Attire - Refreshments and appetizers will be served
- Meet with Washington and Lee Alumni l
Rich Gatti, Divisional VB, Assistant and Controller - Class of ‘85
Susan Komonytslcy, Manager, Expense Payables - Class of ‘94
Marguerite Nielsen, Assistant Buyer, Cosmetic Treatments - Class of ‘94 ‘ I

People who do well at MAY have... Qualifications...
« Ability to protluce results . Cjunmlative G,l?A, of 3,0
SPRING BREAK '97 - SELL ' Abllltl’ C091‘1<’~T§lZ€ 0?-he” ~ — Liberal Arts or Business degree ,
TRIPS, EARN CASH AND GO ' The desire to learn ~ Leadership skills A
FREE, — Strong organizational skills » Strong analytical skills
STS is hiring CAMPUS REPS. Sell
15 trips and travel free!!! Cancun
from $419, Jamaica from $419 and
Florida from S 1 19.
Call (800) 648-4849.

=5‘-
‘écn
cu-u
“E”

  El, Ittﬂn.

           
   
     
  

Hecht’s can offer an exciting career path, excellent compensation, comprehensive benefits and more!

. .l’lt:;1.~;e R.S.\;'l? by Oc.ml~er 21. 1996 to: Cara Hart, Manager, (703) 558-1820 oreemail: recruiting@h'ec_hl:s;

‘homepage: www.maycompany.com

 

 

Equal (Qlp.portunity Elilplt)‘.-\f.!'

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi. NOVEMBER 1, 1996 ADVER'l‘ISING/ CARTOON PAGE 5

. BEBE Ema l

Egg F . Harris Teeter  A  
. . -  Mt. Dew, Diet Pepsi or
. cast 1t agam at the -

Peps:
* it
at ‘A’ *
Ettﬁﬁﬁﬁ
‘A' ‘A’ *
‘A’ * ‘Ir
EEEE
s * ‘A’ *

in Evans Dining Hall

iii}

ll>ll>ll>lI>
ll>lfI>)l>

  
   
     
  
 

lH1>l1>ll>
ll>lI>ll>)l>

    
  
     

 

 

   

   
    
  

  

 
 
   

  

   

i I -
Tuesday, November 5
I
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I
I I
I I
_ A I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
1 : :
I I 0 I
I I
‘ :  , : IOr1gmal .
I ‘ I
' H“ H ' Potato Cnsp
I ’ ’ I
- §‘UlUlll lDl l|lI.lI_lIlE -
I I
I I
I
I x I
 sot-wrw - 99
I I
,. I "Philadelphia & New York Style Subs” I
I I
I  Restaurant Hours: Delivery Hours: 5 1214 02-
I
‘ A 5 Sunday  E l:{)£) am. - 11:00 ;;;2,m. ,*$m1<'l2xy -~ 12:1)();.>.m.~11:0t')p.m. E
}~,1(‘}n(j<}_y ...... .. g Hm _~.;,;-n, - ‘I 210C: (pan, Mr.>17clay ----- »- .‘.§:(.)€_‘r pm. » 12:00 am? . O .
E ‘fuesdny ------ -V  Mxt) am, ~ 12:00 am. 'l'ut;*sda§/  3:i.I)s)p.m.*‘12:00a.m. : >  m' chaﬁng’ mm   01' Beef
: ":t'.\\’(‘(:“(~ll>'lt.?">‘d¢:l'\I‘ . ..... .. .E.!:(_}-{(1 .;x,.rn. ~  ant. W'¢{ln<25da3. _.... urn, ~  (jam. :     
I limri-.Ll:).y -~ - E His) am. » 5:00 am, lhu.r.<;t.lo.y  :>.s}() gun. ~ 1.00 am. I , .
I 4 I guricgiy ..... .. I ‘:00 am‘ .. km am}. §;:,3d'_.?y  ?$:-O0 _t:>.m. ~ 1100 am. : General M1119 cereal  
: Satdrtlay -~--~~ H:0() ,3..rn. ~- 2:30 ;v1.m. Sattzrday  ' 12:0!) pm. -- 1:()()a.m. I
I I
I I
' ‘105 North Main Street texin ‘ton, VA 24450 '
I I E) I
I , ‘ I
5 (540) 464-1983 5 [OR mg
I I O2.
 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
‘ I
, ~\ Betty Crocker
’ l’RI.XC[l’LES qr” SOUND RETIRl3iV1EN'l‘ 11\'v1+;sTIN(i. ‘ .  POUCHES INSIDE! P 0 
 I mt==-~ “m P‘
MA L g
\
III P «J
. ‘ /C2)

, . «Elk;
I
( 9

 

« EVERYONE WILL GIVE YOU              
THEIR TWO CENTS WORTH, BUT WILL ‘ e  OfYour School        

. THATBEE T 0 2 andDo  Su 1-Nds~
  NOUGH ORETIRE N 

 

  
 

T<:tla,x' tlxcrrez set:ttt.~s to be an investment" v;a.:‘iztl>lc. a.nmxii;y zwct'xL2ni's. And were nonproﬁt. 
‘ expert or linamtzial 2i.(‘l\«‘l.‘iO1‘ zéxnost evcry~ st) our t-xptrnsc {T}1£i.I‘g’t‘5 are among the lowest in l
I where you turn. But‘ just. lmw qualiﬁer} are all the insur;-\ncr.* and mutual fund industries." Tlmt
I tln-st: expc1't's(-.' means nmru ul\_vm1r rntmoy is where it Should
, l“ezxce of mind about ycur l'mux‘«.- t:mm:s from be ~-- wovlclrmg For you.

solid planning. Frorn lf1V’t§:t(1h£.’Hl.$ and 8L*t'\'lt.‘C.*.l ’l‘.l,-\.»"\»Cl'{l"I.I‘=‘ is now the largcst private pension
designed and m.ana,gcd with your needs and system in the worlci, bztsed on assms under man-

‘ 1‘¢~tlrtNl1€.'nl' sectxtitv specifically in mind. Tlut kind agement -— m;'m.'.tging mom than $l50 billion in
of investment.» etntl 2‘-.t.‘.I'Vl(.’C'Sa‘ 'l‘lAA~C-REF has asstzts for mom than one £U1('l a hall‘ million people
been prrrvlrling tbs‘ more than ;-S years. throughout the natian.

W'E'I.l.- l'l'l“.l..l.’ YOU BUILD
I A R.1':1WAR1)1N(3 RETIRICM l:1£\"l'. 1 _ , _!'1“‘1{\‘A~‘—”"’~l-"3-‘“= , ‘ ,
Our cuutxsclnrs are trained rctit'cmttnt ;>1't3ll:s- THE C]‘“)KJL ‘HAT MAKES SERSEI

sionals who have only you and ycmr l'umr-¢.- in It's tough tn w-.'tr.le tlamuglx all the "aclvicc" to ﬁnd
miml. 30 ‘V<>U.x‘C tL’£’£J(Q(§ 5.15 l'lli.‘.‘ Kltllqkltf pcrzztwn a Féllllblt‘. pérnsétm plan pmvirlcr. But as it mtiIl'llJ(’:f
you me, with :u,)m:i;.xl needs and cumtcrns almut ol'tl1e eclucmirm and rersearch t:umn1uni('_y. your

I retiretnent‘. Aml that B1&ll{C'$ flu‘ aux u1‘xt'lt¢t'starul- lxrst‘ <'l‘mlf.‘('.‘ is simple: ’l‘l.«‘u‘\-(.'Rl:=l[". 'Bc<tau:ur wlsttn
lng, r.'0mf‘ort:2lrle s*el;z.tiun~.2‘:1ip. it Ctmm;-\ ('0 helping, you pre.~pat-er for retirement, our

WW1 "|"1AA~C‘-RBI". you haw pltmty of t:l10lCe emnuitius will add up to more than spare change.
and flexibility in l,milding_ynLn' rctirmm-:nt nest For more inlksrtnatit>n about how 1‘.lz\z\~CRl5F
‘ ‘ egg ~ llmm TlAA‘:s guamnrez-tl tr;ulitiona.l annuity am help yuu p1‘(:pa.I‘t: For the future. call our
to We investment npport_unitius of CiRl£l":s ;-;c:V‘c;~n l.i.rxr«>llnxtrm Hntline at l 800 842-2888.
I I

  Ensuring the future

'* for those who shape it."-“

.
% Prices and Offers Good  October 16, Through ‘Tuesday, October 22, 1996
  .   ‘=;rff;:;t:;:‘.;3f:,.-3;:*;t:‘i:.-:;::::;:;:‘:::.‘.23:’-“'“’    /J I At Your Athens Harris Teeter.
, \.« ........ .. . I We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers.

 

 

CnoooCouIrrx1 -

Generals in action this week:

Foorrnnu. - Sat. at Brtdgewater. 1:30 p.m.

Msoocn - Sat. vs. Virginia Wesleyan. 11:30 a.m.
Tues. In ODAC Quarterﬂnal

Wsoeen - Sat. in ODAC Semiﬁnal vs. Roanoke

Vouxnnu. - Sat. vs. Guilford. 2:00 p.m.

Sat. at ODAC Champlonshlps(M&W)

PAGE 6

  S

@112 ﬂiing-mm iﬁlri

PORTS

Foo'rBALL, SoccER, WATER PoLo, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Last week’s results:

Foornu..- W. 24-21. vs. Sewanee
llsoecn - W, 2-0(OT).vs. Randolph-Macon: L.3-1. at Roanoke
Wsoecn - W. 6-0. vs. Shenandoah:

W. 5-0. vs. RMWC in ODAC quarterﬁnal
Vouzrnu.- W. 15-6. 15-6. 15-9. vs. Christopher Newport:

W, 21-19. 9-15. 15-13. 8-15. 15-10. at E. Menn.:
W. 15-8. 15-13. 15-5. vs. Roanoke

NOVEMBER 1, 1996

Volleyballteam clinches top seed in ODAC tourney

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER
PHI Sroms EDrroR

Christopher Newport, East-
ern Mennonite and Roanoke
were just a few more brief stops
on the
W & L
volleyball
t e a m ’ s
r i d e
t h r o u g h
the Old
D o m i n -
ion Ath-
letic Con-
f e r e n c e
last week.

T h e
Generals
won all three to improve their
record to a sterling 26-3 overall,
9-0 in the conference, with only

 

one contest remaining before the
ODAC tournament.

W&L began the week with a
Parents Weekend match Satur-
day against Christopher New-
port. The Generals sent the home
crowd away happy with a three-
game demolition of the Lady
Captains, 15-6, 15-6, 15-9.

W&Lcruisedthroughthefirst 1

game and built an 8-1 advantage
in the second game. Christo-
pher Newport then made its lone
run of the match by closing to 9-
6 before the Generals blew away
the young and outmatched Lady
Captains for the sweep. Chris-
topher Newport carries four
sophomores and ten freshmen
on its 16-person roster.

Senior Virginia Yoerg and
junior Hilary Martin led the way
for the Generals Saturday. Yoerg
compiled 14 kills and 3 blocks

  

10 4-13

while Martin had 10 kills and 7
blocks.

The victory.gave W&L its
18th consecutive win in the
Warner Center, dating back to
the end of the 1994 season.

“We’re deﬁnitely comfort-
able at home,” Yoerg said. “We
have an advantage, but not so
much more than other teams.”
She added that Eastern Menno-
nite fans are “just insane.”

The fans were not providing
the only insanity Tuesday night
in Harrisonburg when the Gen-
erals visited Eastern Mennonite,
which had been unbeaten in the
conference. But when the dust
cleared Tuesday, the Generals
were alone at the top of the
ODAC after squeezing past
EMU, 3-2.

“It was pretty important,”
Yoerg said of the victory. “We
just needed to establish ourselves
as the number-one team.”

The insanity began in the ﬁrst
game ofthe evening, a wild 21-
19 marathon which W&L cap-
tured. As exhausting as that ﬁrst
game was, the Generals would
need four more games to put
away the ﬁred—up Eastern Men-
nonite squad.

EMU rebounded with a 15-9
win before W&L eeked out a

15-13 victory in the third game.
But Eastern Mennonite, spurred
on by its rambunctious crowd,
would not succumb easily. It
roared back for a 15-8 win to set
up the deciding ﬁfth game.

With the conference title and
their 11-game winning streak on
the line, the Generals delivered
once again. They came through
for a 15-10 win to escape
Harrisonburg still unbeaten in
the ODAC.

Records shattered every-
where during the long, grueling
match. Freshman Nancy
Reinhart was involved in one as
she set a new school record with
29 kills in the match. Her 28
digs were only one away from
the school record. Junior Alison
Beard also etched her name in
the W&L record books with her
71 assists for the match. Martin
added 19 kills and junior Holly
Thomsen had 13 kills for the
Generals.

Despite the crucial victory
against Eastern Mennonite,
Yoerg said the team still has
room to improve.

“We are not playing as well
as we could’ be right now,” she
said. “Our next two home
matches will help us refocus on

.our goals.”

One of these matches was
Thursday’s contest against
Roanoke. The Maroons prob-
ably thought of less-scary places
to visit on Halloween night than
Lexington after the Generals
drubbed them, 15-8, 15-13, 15-
5, for their 13th straight win
overall and 19th straight at home.

Reinhart had another huge
game with 12 kills and 14 digs.
Martin collected 10 kills and 7
digs, while Yoerg had 8 kills and
6 blocks.

After the Guilford match at 2
p.m. Saturday in the Warner
Center, W&L will prepare for
the ODAC tournament starting
next Friday. The Generals will
deﬁnitely be the targets next
weekend, Yoerg said.

“Everyone is out to beat us,”
she said. “The competition will
be extremely high.”

The volleyball team cannot
worry about receiving an NCAA
bid at the moment because “it’s
out of our hands now,” accord-
ing to Yoerg. But if the team
does not receive a bid, settling
for ODAC champions would not
be such a bad distinction.

“We don’t have any higher
goal than winning the confer-
ence and winning the (ODAC)
tournament.”

Photo by Ron Bookwalter

Two Generals go for the ball in Saturday’s victory.

Women’s soccer enters postseason play

Men’s team to
finish regular
season play

BY KRIS MATHIS
PHI STAFF WRITER

The 1996 men’s and women’s soccer
teams have had a year of ups and downs.
Both teams started the season on a tear
with the women’s team going an unprec-
edented 7-0 before
losing their first
game, and the
men’s team win-
ning seven of their
first eight matches.
Despite this, both
teams face the
daunting prospect
of being left out of
the most important
tournament of the
year, the NCAA
tournament. This, because, of mid-sea-
son slumps which now leave the men’s
team with a 10-4 record and the women’s
team with a 12-4 record.

The women’s team has rebounded

 

from its problems by winning their last
three games including a 5-0 win at home
over Randolph Macon Women’s Col-
lege on Wednesday in the ﬁrst round of
the ODAC tournament.

Sophomore Karin Treese led the scor-
ing for the Generals with two goals, both
netted in the first half. these goals put
Treese at 18 for the season, and ties her
for the most goals in a season. Co-
captain Michelle Bauman set the record
in 1994.

Sophomore Elizabeth Ritchey added
her one goal for the day and gave the
Generals the 3-0 lead at the half.

Juniors Claire Bowers and Erica
Reineke rounded out the scoring for the
Generals in the second half. Bowers
scored on an assist from Reineke, and
Reineke later netted an unassisted goal to
complete the 5-0 victory.

Goalkeepers freshman Stephanie
McKnight and senior Beth Mozena com-
bined for their ninth shut out of the sea-
son, tying them for a W&L record.

Wednesday’s victory also marked
another record for the Generals. they
now hold the most wins in a season title
with 12.

The Generals will now face Roanoke
College in the ODAC semifinals on Sat-
urday at Randolph-Macon. The hardest
test for the Generals will be in the ﬁnals
should they win their next match. The
number two seeded Generals will most

likely meet numberone seeded Randolph-
Macon coed in the ﬁnals.

R-MC is ranked eighth in the nation.
The Generals are hoping to avenge the 1-
0 Homecoming loss
to the Yellow Jackets.

‘‘In order for us to
have a shot at nation-
als,” said assistant

coach Liz Graham,
“we’re going to have
to face Randolph-
Macon coed and beat
them. They’re a very
good team, but they
make mistakes like
anybody else.”

Going into the
ODAC tournament
W&L gained some
much needed momen-
tum by defeating
Ferrum 4-0 and crush-
ing Shenandoah 6-O.

With these wins,
the Generals ended a
skid in which they had
lost four of their last
six games.

Meanwhile, the
men’s soccer team was looking to end a
skid of their own this past week as they
took on Randolph-Macon and Roanoke
College. The men played host to
Randolph-Macon this past Saturday. De-

 

spite the constant drizzle the generals
survived a defensive battle and came
away with a 2-0 overtime victory. Scor-
ing for the Generals were freshman Jamie
Parker and jun-
ior Gordon
Meeker.

Three days
later, however,
the Generals ran
into a much
tougher oppo-
nent in confer-
ence-leading
Roanoke Col-
lege.

Despite a
solid defensive
efforttheWash-
ington and Lee
men’s soccer
team fell by a
score of 3-1.

The Wash-
ington and Lee
men’s soccer
team looks to
bounce back in
their final
ODAC tune-up
match against Virginia Wesleyan this
Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields. They
will begin ODAC tournament play on
Tuesday.

Publicity Photo
Mikel Parker boots the ball.

Generals hold off late Sewanee rally, 24-21

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
PHI Sroms EDITOR

Your opponent’s mistakes are your opportunities.

The Generals put this lesson to use last Saturday as
they took advantage of five Sewanee turnovers on their
way to a 24-21 victory over the
Tigers.

Things did not look good at the
outset of the Parents Weekend
matchup as Washington and Lee’s
offensive unit lost 14 yards on its
first series and was forced to punt.
But Sewanee’s offense had prob-
lems of its own. On the second
carry of the series, Tiger fullback
Jeremy Whitman fumbled the ball
at the Sewanee 39-yard line. Se-
nior noseguard Neil Kelleter recovered the ball for the
Generals.

W&L looked as if they were going to fail to get a first
down on their second offensive series when senior Jon
Gardner was tackled for a six-yard loss on second-and-
nine, setting up a third-and-long.

 

But then senior quarterback Brooks Fischer con-
nected with sophomore wideout Chas Chastain on a 44-
yard throw. Chastain dashed untouched to the endzone,
giving the Generals theirﬁrst points of the day with only
about six minutes having passed. Junior Matt Holbrook
knocked the PAT through, giving W&L the 7-0 lead.

A second Sewanee fumble set up the Generals next
scoring drive early in the second quarter. Senior safety
Chris Watson recovered the ball at the Tigers’ 12-yard
line. It took the Generals three plays and about 90
seconds to get junior Seth McKinley over the goal line.
He dove in from three yards out, giving the Generals the
13-0 lead. Holbrook’s second successful kick extended
the advantage to 14-0.

Just over a minute and a half had passed before the
Tigers handed the Generals another opportunity. Junior
defensive tackle Omar Moneim snagged the third
Sewanee fumble of the game at the Tigers’ 39-yard line.
Freshman Christian Batcheller, next season’s heir ap-
parent to Fischer’s quarterback position, played the
ensuing series. He completed two passes for 13 yards
and then capped off the drive with an 11-yard run for the
first touchdown of his college career. Holbrook put his
third kick of the day through the posts, notching W&L’s

lead to 21-0 with 7:18 re-

Junior Seth McKinley (24) rushes through the Sewanee defense.

Photo by Ron Bookwalter

   

maining in the half.

But the Tigers refused
to be shut out and began a
scoring rally on their last
series of the half. Scott
Matthews pushed into the
end zone on a three-yard
drive. The extra point put
the score at 21-7 going into
halftime.

Sewanee came out
strong in the second half.
They forced the Generals
to punfaftera third and one,
and the Tigers took the ball
at their own 14-yard line.

But on the first play,
Sewanee’sWhitman com-
mitted the fourth Tiger
fumble. Senior linebacker
McGuire Boyd recovered
the ball for W&L at the 14.

The Sewanee defense
stepped up the pressure and
pushed the Generals’ of-

fense back for a three—yard total loss on three plays.
Holbrook salvaged the drive for the Generals with a
successful 34-yard field goal, extending the W&L lead
to 24-7.

Midway through the fourth quarter, Sewanee re-
vived its scoring rally as Micah Elliot found the end
zone on a ﬁve-yard run. On the ensuing kickoff, the
Generals ran into fumble trouble of their own as junior
John Benazzi dropped the ball. Sewanee converted as
Whitman ran the ball in from 18 yards out, putting the
Tigers within three, 24-21.

W&L failed to get a first down on the following
possession and were forced to punt late in the fourth
quarter. But the Generals would not reliquish their lead.
The Tigers were kept from a first down on their final
possession when Boyd and Kelleter combined to stop a
Whitman run. The Generals ran out the clock to clinch
the 24-21 victory.

Fischer finished the game with 143 yards on nine
passes, putting him within 135 yards of becoming the
W&L all-time leading passer. “

McKinley also moved up in the Generals’ record
books. He ran for 52 yards on 13 carries last Saturday.
He has logged 1,313 yards rushing, placing him in the
number-eight spot on W&L’s all—time rushing list. This
is a considerable feat for McKinley, who has missed
many games due to injury. '

Also notable in Saturday’s game was the perfor-
mance of the defense. With senior Travis Wisdom out
for the season with an ankle fracture and senior Peyton
Williams out indeﬁnitely with a shoulder injury, the
strength of the d- line was questionable going into
Saturday’s game.

But freshman Scott King stepped in for Williams,
making ﬁve tackles, two for losses. Junior David Foster
and sophomore Brad Baker ﬁlled in for Wisdom at
linebacker, combining for 12 tackles, including two for
losses.

Tomorrow the Generals will travel to Bridgewater
College for an important ODAC matchup. Bridgewater
has been the surprise of of the conference. Coming into
the season, the Eagles were carrying a 24-game winless
streak. But this season, they have managed to post a 4-
3 record, 2-] in the ODAC. The Generals have won the
last three games in their series with Bridgewater.

Center Stefan Neumeister commented, “We will
win...if we continue to do what we have done all season
and that is play smart and capitalize when we have the
chance...We will also need to continue to step up the
running game and take the breaks to our advantage.”

,€

.1:

 

