  

. .'.“ 
Mr’ I I 5,.

VOLUME , NUMBER 1 7

GENERAL
NOTES

SAC HOLDS BLUE BOOK FORUM:

The Student Affairs Committee will hold an open forum 7
p.m. Wednesday in Northern Auditorium to gather student
input on the new Blue Book. The Blue Book creates a new
Student Judicial Committee to replace the Student Conduct
Committee and was approved by the SAC in January. The
faculty will consider the Blue Book in March.

Copies of the Blue Book are available in the library and on
the SCC homepage. Questions prior to the forum should be

  U112 i.Pttng—tum 1311'

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBFIA ‘
WASHINGTON 1 LEE own/:nFz'rv

LEXINGTON, VA 1640!

FEB 11 1997

Bulk rate
us Postage
PAID

Pennlt No. 7
Lexington. VA

FEBRUARY 10, 1997

D-hall workers arrested for drugs

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI STAFF WRITER

Two weeks ago the Washington and Lee University
Dining Hall workers performed “Sister Act” for the
Lip Sych Contest. But the act was over Tuesday for
Vera Merchant, and assistant manager at the Dining
Hall and mother of a thirteen-year-old boy, when she
was arrested for possession of cocaine and marijuana.
Dining Hall cook Shawn Brown was also arrested for
possession of marijuana.

Members of the Rockbridge Regional Drug Task
Force confiscated cocaine and marijuana from Mer-
chant, two former catering employees, and a juvenile

in her apartment over City Steaks and Subs on Sept. 5,
1996. The Rockbridge grand jury indicted Merchant
and the others Monday after the Task Force produced
the lab results. ‘~

Merchant and Brown continue to work at the Din-
ing Hall. “This week the Personnel Services will
determine what will be done,” Director of Dining
Services Gerald Darrell said.

The arrests were the result of a six to nine month
undercover Task Force investigation, which ended in
27 arrests on 46 counts. Charges include possession
and distribution of cocaine and marijuana, and posses-
sion of various prescription medicines.

The undercover investigation was prompted

by complaints by local residents who suspected
their neighbors were either dealing or using drugs.
Two or three drug “rings” were broken up by the
arrests.

“We think we got them all,” Chapel said. “But the
usual scenario is that once one is taken out, another
one ﬁlls his shoes right away.”

The Rockbridge Regional Drug Task Force is a
cooperative effort between the Lexington and Buena
Vista Police Departments, the Rockbridge County
Sheriff’ s Ofﬁce, and the Virginia State Police Bureau
of Investigation.

Since 1994, the Task Force has seized $754,296.00

addressed to SAC members (Sandy Hooper, Robert Covington,
Anthony Mazzarelli, Sara Benson, Dan Campbell, or Eliza-
beth Cox).

I RELIGION DEPT. HOLDS LECTURE:

Religion students will want to attend a lecture by James L.
Peacock, former president of the American Anthropological
‘ Association, 7:30 p.m. Monday in Northern Auditorium.

I Peacock is currently Kenan Professor of Anthropology at
the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and has served
as visiting professor at Princeton, Yale and University of
California at San Diego. He is the author of numerous books
and articles and will present “Belief Beheld—-Again: The
‘ Emergence of the Interpretive Perspective in the Study of
Religion.”

The lecture will be sponsored by the Phillip F. Howerton
Fund for Special Programs and is open to the public. Peacock
,, will also lead a faculty seminar during his stay at W&L.

CONSORTIUM OFFERS PROJECTS:

The Keck Geology Consortium will provide opportunities
for eight research projects to students at member universities
this summer. Six of the four to six week projects will be
offered to rising seniors and two to rising juniors.

The projects will include an analysis of the valley and ridge
landscape in Virginia with W&L Assistant Professor David
Habor and a study of volcanism and tectonics on Earth, Venus
and Mars, taught by W&L Professor Sam Kozak and Visiting
Professor Martha Gilmore .

The consortium includes 12 of the nation’s top liberal arts
colleges and receives its funding from the W. M. Keck
Foundation.

STUART PUBLISHES 14TH BOOK:

Professor of English Dabney Stuart has published his 14th
collection of poetry, “Lone Gone.” It has been nominated for
a Pulitzer Prize, the fourth such nomination for Stuart.

Stuart joined the W&L faculty in 1965 and became the
poetry and review editor of “Shenandoah,” the university’s
literary review, in 1966. He was named editor in 1988 and
I; served in that capacity until 1995 when he returned to full-
time teaching in the English department.

STUDY IN ENGLAND:
The head of Advanced Studies in England, a study-abroad

program, will be on campus to talk with interested students 4
p.m. Monday, Feb. 24 in Fairfax Lounge.

of narcotics and has made 299 drug related arrests.

Director Spike Lee to speak at Lee Chapel

contact, Glasgow March 5. In support of the event spon-

Endowment
Committee and
W&L Film Society
bring Hollywood
to Lexington

W&L Film Society
will present four of
Lee’s ﬁlms: “She’s
Gotta Have It,” “Do
the Right Thing,”
“Malcolm X,” and

“Get on the Bus.”
W&L has never

had a director visit
before, and Contact
thought it was
about time. “They
also wanted some-
one sort of educa-
tional,” Film Soci-
ety member Alex Christianson said.

 

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI STAFF WRITER

What do you have to do to meet Spike
Lee, a man whose cinematic expertise
shed new light on race relations, urban
America and Malcolm X? Go to the one
of the most homogeneous and conserva-
tive universities in the nation, of course.

Spike Lee will speak at Washington

and Lee University on Wednesday, criticisms about American society

Women take over Delt house

City council approves

conditional-use request

BY ERICA PRossER
PHI STAFF WRITER

The plans to put sorority women in the former Delta
Tau Delta fraternity house, 106 Lee Avenue, are almost
complete.

Dean Leroy “Buddy” Atkins attended the Lexington
City Council meeting last Thursday, to present a public
response to the plan to council members. The univer-
sity is in the process of obtaining a permit to use the
Delta house for sororities. The permit request projects
use of the house for ﬁve years while plans get underway
for full sorority housing.

for events.

sored by the student group Contact, the

 

' mother, but that an up’pe‘r'-'clIass“
House Manager, like and RA,
would live there and that they
would use the dining area for ca-
tered events and other functions.
The house, which as been vacant
for the past few years, has been
used by sororities, Women’s Fo-
rum, and other university groups

According to the proposal sub-
mitted to the council, W&L “re-
leased the Phi chapter of Delta

that will be educational to students.”

Christianson doesn’t think that Lee is
theantithesisofW&L
society. “I think that
people peg Spike Lee
as far left when he
really isn’t. Ithink he
deals with racism in a
fair way that most
Hollywood directors
don’t.”_

Lee’s visit will
highlight“Hollywood
comes to Lexington,”
a week-long event
sponsored by the
Glasgow Endowment

Committee, Contact and the W&L Film
“Lee deals with historical issues and Society, Michael Medved, film critic
and co-host of PBS’s “Sneak Previews”

will kick of the event with a lecture in
duPont Auditorium on Feb. 27.

The Film Society will being showing
Lee’s ﬁlms throughout the week at the
following times: “She’s Gotta Have it,”
Friday, Feb. 28; “Do the Right Thing,”
Saturday, March 1; “Malcolm X,” Fri-
day, March 7; “Get on the Bus,” Satur-
day, March 8. All showings will begin at
7:30 p.m. A

The co-sponsored “Hollywood
comes to Lexington” week is a debut
event. “The Film Society suggested
the idea, and we are always looking for
something to appeal to a broad audi-
ence,” Vice Chairman of Contact Joshua
Heslinga said. “The week-long event
should encourage debate about cur-
rent issues... and also be fun for
students.”

 

FI hot
Next year twenty sorority women will live in the fo’rnl1eeII- 0
Delta Tau Delta house across from the post office.

W&L ENTERTAINMENT:
D-KGB IN THE H0

   

The Delta house sleeps 20, so four girls from each
of the five sororities will live in the house next year.
The sororities choose which girls would live there.
Atkins outlined the house’s use, saying that they girls
would probably not have a full-time kitchen or a house-

Tau Delta from its lease agreement... and removed
recognition from the fraternity” on Oct. 10, 1996. The
proposal continues that the Panhellenic Sorority created
in the house would “promote a cooperative Panhellenic
spirit among the ﬁve sororities.”

The proposal outlines facilities and rules for the
house and mentions parking conditions would be those
approved when the Delts still lived there: three spaces
conditions were ﬁne while the Delts were around and that
neighbors remembered the fonner fraternity favorably.

    

The D.C. reggae band D-KGB will perform in the GHQ at
‘I 9 p.m. Tuesday night. Free admission.

——COMPILED BY PEGGY Srumz

 

‘ .
FOPINION

D-hall reveals new menu, Betsy can't come up with
an idea and President Clinton's budget makes the
wrong sacrifices.

5 FEATURES

IA drought symbolizes '
Lizze Curry’s future until 7
“The Rainmaker" enters
herlife. Comet Hale-Bopp

*returns to W&L from deep
space. Students learn Pol-
ish folk dancing. "Larry Flynt’’ portrays

‘the struggles of a porn mogul.

PSPORTS

Women’s basketball upsets Randolph-Macon. An-
other tough overtime loss for men's basketball. The
Big Fan takes his last stand as sports editor.

  

it

  

 

Dreams deferred for
W&L black students

BY AARON FOLDENAUER
PHI STAFF WRITER

optimistic.

Some of Miles’ professors have said
“really ignorant” comments directed to-
ward her race, she said. Miles also must
deal with similar comments made by
students.

“I was walking one night behind the
‘quad, and I heard someone yell out ‘Hey,
you nigger!’ I would have to assume that
it was directed towards me,” she said.
Austin, who was shocked at “all the

confederate ﬂag-waving garbage”

at W&L, has been shunned by stu-

' dents on numerous occasions. He

. has also had problemswith W&Lsecu-

‘ rity, who have questioned and asked

4. him for identiﬁcation when he was

'5 - playing basketball in the gymna-

- _ it sium.

'  “Iamconcentratingon my edu-

cation,” said Austin. “That’s the

only thing that I can control. I don’t

even know if we can have effective

change.”

Austin said that he is treated

reasonably well most of the time,

but when bad things happen, they usually
“come in bunches.”

“Being black on this campus is not a
bad thing, but rather it’s a mixed bag,”
said Taylor. “There are people at this
campus who will give blacks the cold
shoulder, but I have never experienced
blatant racism. I have experienced south-
ern hospitality.”

Most W&L students look toward the
Greek system for social outlets, but black

Blacks are neglected and mistreated
and have few social outlets on campus,
according to several Washington and Lee
University minority students.

“This place to me is not a healthy
place for black students to be and have as
a college experience,” said Senior Brian
Austin who is looking forward to gradu-
ation day.

   
 
   
 

leaving. Ithinklhavebeen through  I
the worst of times already. Right ‘
now, I'm on the backstretch.”
Senior Robert Taylor chose
W&L because of its size, its
academic reputation and the
generous ﬁnancial aid pack-
age that he was offered.
“Looking back, I probably »
should have included more param-
eters in my selection,” saidTaylor,
who now realizes he didn’t look
closely enough at the social life of
black W&Lstudents. ‘‘I consider myself
part of the mainstream but not part of the
Greek social system It worked out, but it
was not easy my freshman year.”
Sophomore Tiffany Miles classiﬁes
W&L’s social scene as “miserable.”
“After you have done all of your study-
ing and things, you’ve got to have some-
thing to do,” said Miles. “And that is
where this school is really lacking for _
me, as an African-American.’’ '
She says that the administration needs
to work on this problem, but she isn’t

Please see BLACKS, pg. 2

Economics professor
signs petition against  
Balanced Budget

BY B.J. WALKER
PHI STAFF WRITER

One of the most debated, and popu-
lar, initiatives of the 105th Congress is
the proposed Balanced Budget Amend-
ment. Supported by practically all of
the GOP majority and a large portion
of the Democrats, the Amendment is
almost assured passage. To most
Americans the proposal seems like a
good idea-—preventin g the government
from engaging in the reckless spend-
ing of the Reagan-Bush era. Some
economist are, however, doubtful.

At the recent meeting of the Ameri-
can Economic Association, over 1,100
leadingeconomist, including 11 Nobel
laureates, signed a petition, which has
been reprinted in full-page ads in most
leading papers across the country, eon-
demning the measure as “unsound and
unnecessary.” On the list was Washing-
ton and Lee Professor Art Goldsmith.

“l’m opposed to simply because its
not prudent,” said Goldsmith. His
opposition is grounded in the belief
that a required budget, especially in
times of economic recession, would
be disastrous to the economy.

“The government has set up auto-
matic stabilizers (unemployment in-
surance, welfare, etc.) that protects

the economy. When people loseltheimw--public7e consciousness, but it would be

jobs, the stabilizers keeps them up.
The amendment would force expendi-

ture to follow taxes. When the economy
slows down, taxes would fall. That’s
the time the government most needs to
be spending. The government would
have less to spend on stabilizers and
the economy would only worsen.”
“The more important issue is the
composition of government expendi-
tures, not the amount. If government is
spending on infrastructure, education,
training, and things like that, down the
road, we will be much more produc-
tive.” One likely explanation for the
strength of the current American
economy is the large investments that
corporations made at the beginning of
the decade, during a recession.
Another oonoem is with government
bonds. Goldsmith feels if the Balanced
Budget Amendment were to get rid of
govemmentbondsmany peoplewhomight
use such bonds to safely save for college
would no longer be have this option.
“There aretimesasurpluswilloccur,
just as a debt will at times occur. Both
are natural and possible in the future.”
As for Congress’ fascination with
the issue, Goldsmith notes “it may be
good politics, but it’s bad economics.
1,100 economists agree.”
He does look favorable on the debate
over the issue. ‘‘I think all the debate has
been healthy because it’s raised the

unwise to offset the good that the gov-
ernment can do in times of recession.”

 

 

PAGE 2

First black student
recalls W&Llife

BY AARON FOLDENAUER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Dennis Haston, raised in Lexington and
now a high school mathematics teacher, broke
the racial barrier that encompassed Washing-
ton and Lee University for decades.

The first black undergraduate who attended
W&L in the 20th century, Haston matriculated
in 1966 and left in 1967.

Theonly black before him wasJohn Chavis,
who attended the College in the late 18th
century.

“Washington and Lee was more challeng-
ing academically than socially,” Haston said
in a recent telephone interview. “I struggled.
I had roughly Cs and D5. In certain areas, I was

not ready for the challenge.”

Haston, who lived off-campus at his home,
said he was generally treated well but had a
few problems.

“I sensed sometimes that I was not wanted,”
he said. ‘‘I also thought I was discriminated
against by one of my professors. The way he
talked to me, graded my papers, the whole
atmosphere. But back then I didn’t retaliate. I
just went with the program.”

For a variety of reasons, he decided to
transfer to Bluefield State College. But this
brief stint at W&L wasn’t the only first for
Haston.

“When I came to Winchester in 1970, I was
the only black in the whole system,” Haston
said. “I was the first black to do a lot ofthings.
You just can’t give in.”

NEWS / FEATURES

BLACKS. from page 1

participation and involvement in the system is much
lowerthanthatof the general studentbody,according
toAssociateDeanofStudents Lenoy“Buddy”Atkins.

About 50% of black men go through nrsh, while
over 90% of all freshmen men decide to enter a
fraternity. Hardly ever does a black woman go
through rush.

Atkins said the lack of black participation in the
Greeksystemisnotsurprisinggiven thesmall number
of minoritiesoncampusintheﬁrstplace. Hesaidthat
the college is doing everything properly to recruit
moreblacks.

Only fourblacksareinthisyear’sfreshmanclass.

“Ithink we just hadabad yearinthe Admissions
Office landing the people we offered admission to,”
Atkinssaid. “l thinkwewill haveabetteryearcoming
up based on where we are with early admissions and
applications.”

He added, “We are still in a struggle to hold our
own.”

But forthcoming changes and improvements are
too late for some students like Austin.

“My time in Lexington is done,” Austin said.
“whenlpassthrough here, itmightbejustto get gas.”

The Black History Month display in the campus bookstore invites students to‘ read books by and about A frican-Americans.

Photo by Mark Slomiany

    

  

.--*-"""“"""‘—:~

 

FEBRUARY 10, 1997

EDITORS, from page 3

The Southern Collegian, according
to Resmer, is more of a Mad magazine
than a Mother Jones.

“It’s a humor magazine with a vari-
ety of short stories, poems, journalism,
and comedy.” said Resmer.

The magazine’s first female editor,
Resmer paired up withvco-editor Alex
Christensen to inject diversity and cre-
ativity into the world of campus publi-
cations. Efforts such as Winter Rush
and the Fridays! Committee, in
Resmer’s opinion, are attempts by the
university to artificially spawn creativ-
ity. Such creativity needs to come
from within; hence, the Collegian.

Her magazine seeks to provide a
forum where students can thoughtfully
discuss controversial matters instead
of shouting back and forth at each other
on the Op-ed page of The Trident. Her
personal editorial philosophy is to cel-
ebrate diversity while simultaneously
preserving W&L’s conservative heri-
tage. Although she wants to rid the
campus of a climate of hatred, she's
opposed to the sophist arguments of
political correctness. It is not her aim
to transform the university into Oberlin,
Part II.

Jenkins took over as editor-in-chief
of the Spectator last March after a year
in which the magazine took a low pro-
file.

“Our purpose is to put out commen-
tary on campus issues and relevant na-
tional issues,” said Jenkins. “Our con-
servative slant is a reflection of the
nature of our staff and what we believe
needs to be discussed.”

The magazine has opposed Winter
Rush and infringements upon student
autonomy. It is known for pokingfunat
Dean Anne Schroer-Lamont and controver-
sial campus organizations such as G&L.
Jenkins believes it is wrong for students to
take themselves too seriously.

According to Jenkins, no campus
organization, including the Spectator,
is above public scrutiny.

Jenkins uses his magazine to stand
behind Greek life on campus. Fraterni-
ties and sororities, according to Jenkins,
help provide structure for the students,
especially freshmen who might other-

wise fall through the cracks.

“Pledgeship is a good thing,” said
Jenkins. “A healthy, reasonable pro-
gram inspires self-confidence and im-
proves solidarity.”

Like most freshmen, both Resmer
and Jenkins underwent a culture shock
of sorts when first arriving in Lexing-
ton. But both believe their four years
‘at W&L have changed them for the
better. , _

“As a freshman, I felt like an out-
sider,” said Resmer. “I learned that
the best way to deal with that was not
to shut myself out of the system but to
work within it. W&L trained me to be
a better activist because I live with the
people who oppose my ideas.”

According to Jenkins, his first six
months were a tough transitional time

/as well:

“I was immature four years ago, but
now I feel like I’ve developed person-
ally. I've increased my knowledge,
my self-confidence, and my sense of
professionalism.”

Above all, Resmer appreciates the
civility among W&L students. In her
opinion, this is unique to the school.
On most other campuses, she believes,
rational discussion of controversial is-
sues is obstructed by a lack of respect
among peers. Jenkins agrees. The
campus is a, place where informative
exchanges can occur without the weight
of political correctness. He believes
this is the difference between W&L
and other top liberal arts schools.

Armed with conviction and enthusi-
asm, both Resmer and Jenkins are
poised for greatness. Next year,
Resmer will be working in Chicago for
the Fund for Public Interest Research,
an environmental and consumer lob-
bying group. Jenkins will be in New
York City working as an investment banker
for what was Morgan Stanley before the
merger with Dean Witter last week.

In twenty years, Resmer sees herself
as a celebrated author and poet; Jenkins
sees himself in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives. And, despite the gulf of
differences that will continue to sepa-
rate them, both will always remember
W&L fondly, knowing that their ef-
forts here helped to preserve an insti-
tution they love.

0/93

 
 

VALENTINE’S DAY CELEBRATION

Remember Valentine’s Day
Friday, February 14

Winter Red Dot Clearancesale

Come by and check out Lexington’s Best Kept Secret

PEEBLES DEPARTMENT STORE

Valentine Joe Boxers for Men and Women
Men’s Silk Boxers in solids and prints
All Calvin Kline fragrances, including CK One and CK Be

Save and Extra 3% off any item with a RED DOT

y,

1

 

  

F in ' I ‘C

Fnsmmy 10, 1997

“The Rainmaker” storms into Lenfest

BY ANDREA EWING
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Today is your last chance to
see the Lenfest Center make
rain.

Yes, it does rain, but this is
not the most impressive ele-
ment in the Washington and
Lee Theatre Department’s in-
terpretation of N. Richard
Nash’s play “The Rainmaker.”

 

Professor J. D. Martinez di-
rects the play, which is set in
“a western state on a sum-
mer day in a time of
drought,” according to the
playbill. No specific setting
is given: a set giving the il-
lusion of a house with no
solid walls could be any
house. However, the charac-
ters are not just any characters.
The characters define the ac-
tion, and a finely written text

allows the actors to explore
the inner drive of each.

Lizzie Curry, portrayed by
Maria Hardin, is a plain girl
with no self-confidence. Hardin
comments on the character in
the “Curtain Call:” “Lizzie
doesn’t know how to be a
woman - she isn’t comfortable
with who she is - and that makes
it difficult for her to be roman-
tically involved with a man.”
Hardin gave a convincing per-
formance displaying an excel-
lent understanding of the char-
acter. Her expressions said
more than the delivered lines.

The Rainmaker, Bill
Starbuck, is a lively and bois-
terous con man who promises
the Curry family a thunder
shower in exchange for $100.
Starbuck knows the human
heart and plays off emotion to
achieve his goal. Drew Higgs,
as Starbuck, enters proclaim-
ing that even if he is crazy the
family must believe or rain will
not fall. Higgs has matured as
an actor, and the depth presented
in Starbuck reﬂects this new
maturity.

These two main characters
come into conflict when
Lizzie’s father, H. C. Curry
played by Tommy Spencer,
hires Starbuck. Lizzie knows

W&life

he is a con man, but his talk of
dreams seems to make a drab
reality glitter. Lizzie’s simple
dreams seem as unattainable as
the grand claims made by
Starbuck.

The remainder of the family
consists of two brothers: Dan
Tipton is the older brother,
Noah, a harsh, highly critical
man who runs the ranch, and
Sam Levine plays the dim-wit-
ted but endearing younger
brother, Jimmy.

Joe Merlino as File the
Deputy Sheriff, a man facing
the reality of a failed marriage,
and Brian Prisco as Sheriff Tho-
mas round out the cast.

A blend of well-casted ac-
tors and excellent set appear-
ance bring the performance sen-
sual appeal. Live harmonica
music played by Lee Sauder
lends a “down-home” feeling
to the play. The music adds
feeling to scenes and character,
yet it is so understated that it
does not overpower the perfor-
mance.

Nash writes about love and
the power of faith in oneself.
“The Rainmaker” allows the
audience for a time to enter the
lives of a family where miracles
can happen. Martinez brings
this family to life on stage.

a

en es uiblici ‘P1100

 

“Tell me you’re beautiful:”

Starbuck (Drew Higgs) and Lizzie (Maria Hardin) find
romance in W&L’s presentation of “The Rainmaker.”

Editors shore role of cho lenging schoo

PAGE 3

 

BY DAN ODENWALD
PHI STAFF WRITER

Cathy Resmer and Tim Jenkins both
wear green corduroys, listen to classical
music and drink coffee. And that’s
about where their similarities end.

Resmer edits the Southern Collegian,
a student magazine with a decidedly

“1ib'e'ral"beii’t; JeiiI<'iﬁ§”éEiit’s"tl1"é"S'”peE7iiio'r”,"’ 

the Collegian ’s conservative counterpart.
Both Washington and Lee seniors use
their publications to spark debate on
campus and to expand the political dis-
course. In the age of so-called Genera-
tion X-er slackerhood, Resmer and
Jenkins buck the stereotype. Indeed,
whether they choose to realize it or not,

they are activists in the truest sense of the
word: those who take vigorous action or
involvement as a means of achieving
political goals.

Resmer, an English major from
Eastpointe, Michigan, hasn’t always been
a liberal feminist. In high school, she
considered herself a conservative Re-
publican.

“I just didgwhat my parents did“,’_’.she

“§aiEi’." " "‘“Tl"{e'ﬁ,"l"vV6lEé”up' and began to

think for myself.”

Since then, Resmer has championed
traditionally liberal causes. In 1992, she
campaigned for presidential candidate
Bill Clinton, canvassing for votes in her
neighborhood. She’s pro-choice, anti-
death penalty, and supports gay rights.
She believes Ronald Reagan was an “im-

age president” who set our country back.
Her heroes include consumer advocate
Ralph Nader, Madonna, and folk singer
Ani DiFranco. Typically dressed in black
Doc Martens and baggy ﬂannels, Resmer
speaks with the intensity of someone
who’s convinced she’s right.

Jenkins, a senior European history
and politics major from Rochester, Min-
neusota, has always been a conservative
Republican. He jokes about his G.O.P.
bathroom, which is plastered with Re-
publican campaign posters. A bust of
President Reagan sits on his television.
His heroes include his family, George
Washington, and Robert E. Lee. In 1996,
he voted for Bob Dole because he thought
Dole was the best man for the job. He
says he doesn’t like abortion but supports

a woman’s right to choose, supports capi-
tal punishment, and opposes “special
rights” for homosexuals.

Jenkins looks and sounds like the pro-
totype of the Washington and Lee gentle-
man: tall, well-groomed, and articulate.
His voice is deep and resonates like that
of a tenor. Jenkins epitomizes W&L
grace —- someone who can balance a
cocktail and hors d’ouerve in one hand
while ﬁrmly shaking handswiththeother.

What separates Resmer and Jenkins
from most students on campus is their
choice to enter the foray -— to speak up
for what they believe in. As editors of
their respective publications, both hope
to disseminate their views, inﬂuence oth-
ers, and to get people talking.

Please see EDITORS, pg. 2

Comet Ha e-Bopp brightens

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Star-minded students of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity will have a new subject to which they can turn
their attention during the next few months. Comet
Hale-Bopp will be visible over the eastern horizon
throughout February, March and April.

According to The Washington Post, Comet Hale-
Bopp’s rare appearance has excited some astrono-
mers. Because Hale-Bopp travels a path which ex-
tends out of our local solar system, into interplanetary
space and back again, it visits Earth only once every
four thousand years. In addition, Hale-Bopp promises
to be one of the more visible comets to pass Earth.

“If it lives up to its billing, it should be more
obvious than most comets of this century,” said Pro-
fessor Reese, Professor of Physics. “Halley’s Comet
was pathetic in comparison.”

Hale-Bopp will be visible to the naked eye. Reese
suggests that students who would like a closer view of
the comet forego the use of telescopes. Instead,
students should use binoculars to view Hale-Bopp.
According to Reese, telescopes would allow students
to only see a part of the comet, whereas binoculars
would allow students to view Hale-Bopp in
its entirety.

STUDENTS LEARN PIILIEH FIJLK DANIIINE

BY WILLIAM OVERBAUGH
PHI STAFF WRrrER

Put on your dancing shoes and
dance the Polonaise? Well, not
exactly!

On Sunday, the International
Club hosted the Micha’s Polish
Folk Ensemble. The group, which
consists of ten dancers from the
Norfolk area, has been dancing
for about a decade. Although the
folk ensemble concentrates on
Polish folk dancing, their reper-
toire also includes many dances
from around the world.

The program began at 3:00 p.m.

with a description of the costume information!

Vega

Summer
Triangle

Altair j

20 degrees

l

Dorob

Hale-
3099

East

used in the show. Next, the en-
semble performed dances from
several folk regions of Poland,
then finished by teaching the au-
dience dances from Poland, Is-
rael, Germany, French Canada and
the United States.

The Michas Ensemble is the first
of a series of folk dances which
the International Club will host
this year. The next program will
be Hungarian Dancing, hosted on
March 2. In addition to dancing,
this group will feature live village
music and a multimedia presenta-
tion of Hungarian folk traditions.

Keep reading the Phi for more

The early bird gets the comet:

Students interested in seeing Hale-Bopp
should look to the eastern morning sky.

“It’s really best viewed without a telescope,”
said Reese.

Reese has offered to allow students of W&L to use
the university’s binoculars to look at the comet. If the
weather prediction for the next day is good, students
should see Reese to sign out the binoculars
that afternoon.

Comet Hale-Bopp can be seen before sunrise (at
about 6:00 a.m.). Reese advises that students look due

morning skies

east for three bright stars in a triangular pattern located
twenty degrees above the horizon. (When you look
straight up into the sky, you are looking up at an angle
of ninety degrees. The three stars, then, should appear
about one-fourth of the way into the sky.) These stars
consist the Summer Triangle. Comet Hale-Bopp should
be visible along the line which connects the bottom
two stars.

Comet Hale-Bopp will look like a little smudge,
with its tail trailing vertically above it. Including its
tail, Hale-Bopp is about the same size as the Moon.

You will be better able to see Hale-Bopp if your
surroundings are fairly dark. According to Reese, the
main campus of W&L is too brightly-lit to afford a
good view of the comet. Reese reccomends that
students go to Liberty Hall and look to the mountains
in order to see Hale-Bopp. Also, the comet will be
more visible if the Moon is in a dark phase.

Starting next month, Reese will help groups of
students see the comet.

“Some time in March, we’ll drag out one of our
portable telescopes so students can look at the nucleus,”
said Reese.

Until then, Reese reccomends that students ask
astronomy students to help them find Hale-Bopp.

Take a break from your all-nighter to look at Comet
Hale-Bopp. You only get a chance like this once every
few thousand years.

 

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

In addition to opening doors
and purchasing meals, your l.D.
card can now win hearts and
donate to charity.

Kappa Alpha Theta is cur-
rently sponsoring a rose sale,
the proceeds from which will
be donated to the American
Heart Association.

The roses will cost $4.50
each, or three for $12.00. You
may be pleased to learn that the
cost can be charged home.

"Larru Flynt" depicts
porn moguls struggles

izrikitihr of

4 stars;
hillarious and
relevant

The pitch:
“lt’I| be like
‘Ed Wood’
meets
‘Ca|igu|a.”’

BY ALEX CHRISTENSEN
PHI MovIE CRITIC

Rarely has a movie seemed so out of place in the market-
place. It’s being hyped like a big—budget “issue movie,” much
like “Dead Man Walking” was, or like such older, sort of
dopey but well intentioned efforts like “Gentleman’s Agree-
ment” or “Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner.” Fair or unfair as
that categorization might be to those ﬁlms, it’s downright
weird when applied to “The People vs. Larry Flynt.” First of
all, Larry Flynt does not succumb to anything like the kind of
“nice,” emasculated storytelling that makes everybody feel
good. The issue it’s supposed to address is censorship and the
First Amendment, and it does, sort of, but that’s not the crux
of the story.

The real story is a great, twisted love/hate affair between
Hustler magazine founder Larry Flynt (Woody Harrelson)
and the United States of America. How does this country,
which praises free speech and morality in public while con-
demning pornography, but buys pornography by the millions
in private, deal with a native son who wants to be acknowl-
edged as legitimate in public? Does standing up for free
speech and freedom of action mean endorsing perversity?
How does a capitalist society praise Flynt’s entrepreneurial
spirit without condoning his views?

Milos Forman, one of only two working directors to have
won the Best Director Oscar twice (for “One Flew Over the
Cuckoo’s Nest” and “Amadeus”), along with Oliver Stone,
“Flynt’s” producer, takes the tactic of telling Larry Flynt’s
saga like a documentary, while at the same time using a sort
of simplistic symbolism to portray the forces at work in
America at the time. In Forman’s schema, Larry Flynt is the
quintessential American. All he wants is to get ahead and to
live his life with no compromises. His wife Althea Leasure
Flynt (Courtney Love), represents the libertine who becomes
a victim of her own destructive instincts, succumbing to drug
addiction and falling victim to AIDS after years of
sexual promiscuity.

The forces of good line up on the opposite side. Charles
Keating (James Cromwell) represents the hypocritical capi-
talist who panders to another mass taste which happens to
differ from Larry Flynt’s, but is essentially the same force.
Flynt gives them unthinking sex; Keating, unthinking anti-
sex. Jerry Falwell (Richard Paul) represents the complete
hypocrite, preaching love while inculcating a visceral hatred
for sexuality which doesn’t follow his rules.

One of my favorite scenes is when some of Falwell’s
students bring him theHustler parody which mocks Falwell—
he never asks the pertinent question: “How did you find this?”
It reminds me of when my sister used to tell on me for having
my eyes open during family prayers. The perfect defense:
“How does she know?”

The most potentially fascinating character is Ruth Carter
Stapleton (Donna Hanover Giuliani, yes, the New York City
mayor’s wife), Jimmy Carter’s evangelical sister, who pro-
poses liberating sexuality from the world of smut and Chris-
tianity from the prudes. This development is violently inter-
rupted, as all great movements are.

All of these competing ideologies and forces are never
reconciled, which is painfully obvious from looking at Ameri-
can society today. People are still hysterical over other
people’s sexuality. Congress is locked in some kind of sexual
frenzy, prematurely legislating all over the House ﬂoor.
Falwell’s ilk have hijacked the Republican Party, making it
impossible to nominate a presidential candidate who can be
elected. The movie has no easy answers, but it certainly raises
all the right questions.

And the best thing is Harrelson’s performance. If Larry
Flynt has a soul, Harrelson has captured it on film. To take a
person as unlikable as Larry Flynt and make you root for him
is sheer magic. With every movement, every word, Harrelson
leads us there. While Courtney Love’s performance is not
quite the triumph some critics have hailed it as, it certainly
remains amazingly true to character. It makes the point that
however ugly sex can be, and however unlovable a person can

’be, it is love that makes things bearable.

But the real point of the film is America’s own hypocrisy.
Larry Flynt is a native son. America buys millions of his
magazines a year. But he shouldn’t be anybody’s hero. The
man admits having had sex with a chicken, for heaven’s sake!
It’s hard to come back from that to hero status. Why did
America make Larry Flynt a martyr, then, by persecuting and
prosecuting him just for holding up a mirror to our society?
We’ve got some serious issues to deal with.

The roses will be on sale Mon-
day, February 10, and Tuesday,
February 11. Students can order
roses in Dining Hall during lunch
and in front of the Co-Op from
10:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m.

Roses will be delivered on
Wednesday,
wrapped in ribbon and accompa-

qrnppn ownn cinnn sponsops post Sﬂii

 

Orders

nied by a Valentine.
can be delivered to students

who live on or off campus.
“We really want a lot of
people to do it because it’s for
charity,” said Jennifer Owens,
Theta Social Chair. “Besides,
it’s Valentine’s Day: do some-
thing nice for someone else.”

February 12,

 

  

PAGE 4

OPINION

FEBRUARY 10, 1997

President’s budget cuts other critical programs

President Clinton’s State of the Union
address last Tuesday, outlined the major
focus for his next four years: education. He
has one—upped the so-called “education presi-
dent” George Bush and proposed a dramatic
new initiative to improve our nation’s
schools. On Thursday, Mr. Clinton backed

From the Right

Jason Zacher ’98
Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor

this proposal in his budget, increasing edu-
cation spending by 13 percent, but at what
cost?

There are few in this nation who would
say our education system is not in trouble.
Like some of the Washington and Lee stu-
dents at this school, I went to public schools
that had good teachers, but poor facilities.
With better facilities, my high school, which
already had the best test scores in the public

schools in my area, could have beat out
many more private schools also. All it takes
is a little funding.

Clinton’s first proposal of national stan-
dards for education is overdue. Though it is
clearly the states’ job to fund and run educa-
tion, many states do not make education a
priority, whether it is because of rising prison
and entitlement spending, or because of a
general cultural aversion to education. Some
national standards that school districts need
to meet is the first step toward equalizing
public education.

His second proposal, to ﬁnd and certify
the best teachers, and remove those who do
not measure up, is also overdue. Teaching
is America’s most important profession,
especially in the coming decades. The in-
credible inﬂuence the teachers’ unions in
this country prevents the poor teachers from
being fired— hopefully Clinton will weaken
the teachers’ unions through this action and
districts can remove these bad teachers.

The third and fourth proposals focus on

education for children. It is a travesty that in
our great country there are people who
cannot read. Parents need to help educate
their children, and we need to go back now
and help those who have fallen through the
cracks.

The next few proposals are full issues in
themselves. He has adopted the tradition-
ally Republican school choice issue and also
called for school uniforms, zero tolerance
for drugs and guns in school, and abroad tax
credit for college education (up to $10,000
a year after high school).

Finally, there is the challenge of linking
all schools to the Internet and $5 billion for
school improvements. Both are good pro-
posals. Like the national standards pro-
posal, these two will also help level the
playing field among public and private
schools.

The improvements in education that our
country needs so desperately come at what
cost to other programs? First, true to Demo-
cratic form, Clinton slashed our defense

spending by another 3.4 percent. This de-
spite the warnings of our current and past
Joint Chiefs that the spending has gone too
low, and we cannot fulﬁll our missions
anymore. The biggest mistake he makes is
a $2.9 billion decrease in modernization
spending. Has he forgotten what a differ-
ence modernization spending makes? Many
of our technologies from the Gulf War are
being rendered obsolete before our own
eyes. Our military advantage is steadily
decreasing due to his cuts.

The other major program that suffers is
the infrastructure program that even the
Washington Post says we desperately need.
To keep our economy the best in the world,
we need the best infrastructure. Clinton is
abandoning his ambitious plans by slashing
spending on airports, bridges, roads and
railroads. Like the defense spending cuts,
these also hurt our country’s competitive-
ness in the international arena.

If these were the losers in the budget
battle, what were the winners? Well, if a

Democraticpresidentholdsthe White House,
you guessed it: Medicare and Medicaid.
Medicare spending is slated to increase by 8
percent, and Medicaid will increase by 7.4
percent.

In what is becoming the story of the
Clinton presidency, some areas he gets so
right, and others he gets so very wrong. It is
time for the Democrats to follow the Repub-
lican lead and realize that some very tough
decisions are going to have to be made about
the entitlement spending in this country.
Without a major tax increase, something is
going to have to give. Unfortunately, Presi-
dentClinton sees ourinternational competi-
tiveness as the price. Maybe, just maybe,
with aRepublican congress, this budgetwill

correct itself. If we want to continue our
entitlement spending we will have to get it

under control, which will hurt people.

But instead of hurting a few Americans,
Clinton would rather hurt our country and
its international standing as the only super-

power in the world.

Bu.r'r'i T05

Dessu-T

Beve ra. 38 _§_

To0\o~y‘5 Menu.

H as in Browns

5o~u»TéeoL Mushrooms
Chee se but r3_e.r5
French Fr';'e5

D0~k€ i P01-ot.J'oe5

.5Pec,ia.l “5ue3oJ"‘P0-c.i<eT$

Pepsi, Slice, Lemonade, Iceclléo,
Assorfed. Coke rroaiu..c.J$

W

J

       

The line i.soJ»./an/5 so long
When They serve hash
i.3rawﬁ.§.

 
 

 
  
  

 

The), J'o..$Te really 3004;
burl’ In a.iW<1)I.5 really
kunjrx an i/tour’ JO~Ter.

I _jI~ST ¢=lon"i' 5€€rn To 
able To 351‘ rial J in.

runny hose,

 
       

/Z

Get involved in the SJC- proceedings

By now I expected Spring
weather, at least according to all
the groundhogs. I would give my

Life on the Hill
C. E. Miller ’98

left foot for a little warm weather
around here. According to the
weather channel this is mild com-
pared with the Blizzard of ’96, but
then I see the temperature in
Florida and cry. Since warm
weather and my Russian test oc-
cupy most of my brain, this week
let’s talk about the “little” impor-
tant things that happen on the hill.
Think of it as the first six weeks of
the term in review.

I know I have said it before, but

the Student Judicial Committee is
a big deal. The student forum is
this Wednesday night in Northern
Auditorium. Please come, read the
Blue Book, think of a few ques-
tions. I’ll be there and I’ll be ask-
ing questions. I still want to know
how the judges can effectively
police social probation. I want to
know the necessity of anonymity
for convicted offenders. I want to
know that our campus is involved
enough to care.

The key to making the SJC a
successful part of Washington and
Lee University’s campus is get-
ting the students involved. Paul
Saboe agrees with me on that point.
He was nice enough to send me an
e-mail responding to many of the
concerns I voiced in my article.
He has worked hard for this, and I

dent.

and obscenity.

(J11: ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

Executive Editor ............................. ..
Managing Editor ............................. ..
News Editor .................................... ..
Assistant News Editor ..................... ..
Editorial Page Editor ....................... ..
Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman
Features Editor .............................. ..
Assistant Features Editor ............... ..
Photographer ................................. ..

................................. ..Anne Alvord
 ......................... ..Hi11ary Coombs
................................. ..Tarah Grant
................................ ..Tom Wadlow
............................... ..Jason Zacher

............................... ..David Balsley
............................... ..Andrea Ewing
............................ ..Mark Slomiany

Business Managers ........................ ..
Advertising Assistant ...................... ..

............. ..Neal Kohl, Blake Lovelace
.............................. ..Rebecca Cuny

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Fund-
ing for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi office. room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum
Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters.
columns, and “My Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899

Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
’ Fax£(540)"°462-#4059‘   ' M   ~  ~'
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

feel many ofthe wrinkles I see can
be ironed out ifistudents take an
interest in this.

Every once in a while I receive
a great response to a column. I
want to thank Dean of the College
Laurent Boetsch for responding
to my concerns about the focus of
the University’s education. He
wrote, “I share your sense of con-
fusion when you write, ‘I don’t
know if the school is failing to
educate us, or if we are failing to
educate ourselves.’ I suspect it is
some of both. The question is,
what sorts of adjustments might
we make to address what you and
I, at least, consider a problem? I
don’t know the answer, but I would
very much like to discuss it with
you and other students. . .”

My reason for writing that col-
umn was to get people to talk
about it. A professor from South-
ern Virginia College sent me an
article from the Washington Post.
The article criticized the universi-
ties and colleges that were becom-
ing obsessed with making the “‘top
ten lists.” It was a refreshing view-
point and one I hope our adminis-
trators are considering. I want to
challenge those students that are
frustrated with the heavy focus on
grade point averages and test
scores to talk about it. It is so
encouraging to know that our ad-
ministrators want to improve our
university.

Everything went wrong with
my financial aid application last
year. I ended up with much less
financial help than I had antici-
pated. This year that little form is
being hand delivered to the ladies

in financial aid. The reason I am
bringing all of this up? Well I
guess I want to know how that $1 1
million dollar grant the university
recently received is going to help
its students. I haven’t heard ofany
direct use and I don’t know what
will happen. Ijust hope the Uni-
versity doesn’t decide to put it
away and not to use.

“The key to
making the
SJC a success-
ful part of
Washington
and Lee
University ’s
campus is get-
ting the stu-
dents involved.”

Grants and letters aside, we
don’t live in a vacuum. Live a
little, buy a raffle ticket for
President Elrod’s parking
place, wave back at a townie,
go tanning to shake off those
winter blues. Everybody needs
a little time away, especially in
the middle of February. Not all
of us will be sunbathing in
Florida or skiing the slopes.
Naturally, I’m not going any-
where, but even Lexington can
be fun.

No clear

enemy

makes Betsy a
boring woman

This week, the inevitable has
happened. I have no clue to write
my column about. In fact, it’s
already overdue, and I suspect that
any minute now, Jason, my patient
editor, will be calling me to ask

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

where it is. That’s why I’m not
answering my phone. Who calls
me on a Sunday afternoon any-
way? Jason, and maybe my mom.
Neither ofthem is likely to give me
any blockbuster ideas.

Glenn Miller’s technique of
choosing one campus organization
and adapting each column to mock
them is a tempting one (A side
note: Iknow alot ofpeople weren’t
satisfied with the Glenn/Alex de-
bate. Who wants to see a rematch
at the chocolate pudding wrestling
match?)

But what group to pick? My
first thought was the EC, but that’s
just asking for trouble. We were
specifically told to avoid making
fun of The Tridentto give peace a
chance. (Oops.) I could make fun
of conservatives and southerners,
but that’ s Rebecca’sjob. I could
make fun of women, but Lamar
already mastered that.

Other groups on campus just
aren’t as funny. Um, let’s see...the
LIFE committee wants us to wash
our hands after using the
computers...no joke comes from
that. See what I mean? The only
thing I’m really left with is making
fun of the French or the Canadians.

What I need is a good solid
enemy. If you think it could be
you, please contact me right away
so we can start to bash each other.
Until then, I will leave you with a
potpourri of rejected column ideas.

Idea #1: An OJ Simpson wrap-
up column. Finally, the whole OJ
thing is over...until the appeal pro-
cess starts it all over again. What
are the chances of the State of the
Union Address and the verdict
coming in at the same time? I was
rather disappointed that all the net-
works took the high road and
showed President Clinton instead
of the verdict. The Fox network
could have at least shown Bill talk-
ing, but then flashed the word
“Guilty” across his face as soon as
the news came in. And how weird
is it that after Simpson was found
liable , he stopped at Baskin
Robbins on the way home? What
was he thinking? “Gee, I guess I’ll
be playing at public golf courses
instead of country clubs from now
on. Hey, ice cream!”

Why I rejected it: With the high
emotions surrounding the case, it
seems generally better not to go
there. And in trying to come up
with a funny ﬂavor of ice cream for
OJ to order, I no doubt would have
written something really tasteless.

Idea#2: My newjob. Irecently
got, and accepted, a job offer for
after graduation. This would have
been about all of the stupid ways I
could blow money and rationalize
not doing any work for the rest of
the year. Or about how I really
want to find an apartment next
year that has a cool, aristocratic
name.

Why I rejected it: For one thing,
it probably wouldn’t have been
funny. And for another thing, do I
want most of the senior class to
kick my ass?

Idea#3: Wedding update. Last

week my husband-elect Steve and ‘

I registered for our wedding gifts.
I’d write about how weird it was
that we were actually asking the
80-year-old woman in the purple
polyester suit that we work with
for advice on decorating ourhome.
And how we were tempted to do
weird things to confuse her, like
choose our silverware by the name
of the pattern. Or ask each other
questions like “Oh, so do you like
TV?” so she’d think we didn’t re-
ally know each other.

Why I rejected it: I’m pretty
sure that this would really only be
funny to me and Steve. Besides
that, I think the last woman at W&L
to go through this experience was
in 1988. And she was actually on
the exchange program from Mary
Baldwin and was engaged to a
JMU student. Well, that’s not true
either. But you get the idea.

Idea #4: Something Star Wars
related. Like, what professors are
most like various characters from
the movie. Or what your favorite
character says about you. Like, if
you like Yoda, you tend to say
vague things in class that really
don’t have any substance to them,
but make you sound wise. Also,
you might have strange interests
like swamp vegetation.

Why I rejected it: There’s prob-
ably something like that, only bet-
ter, out there on the Internet. And
not everyone would understand
why I choose Professor Hughes to
be Obiwan Kenobi.

Well, I suppose that’s all I have
for now. I have successfully filled
up some space (a challenge when
one gets more than 250 words
every other week) and have yet to
receive any threatening phone calls
from Jason. And I promise to find
an enemy over February break so
this doesn’t happen again.

a Quote of the Week

“VVhat’s the difference between a brute animal, a
farm animal, and a domestic animal?”

'  V-‘M‘-*studentreading’lhe@Ce~b1‘vtter*irr‘T’tre*Ne'ws-"Gazette;"noticing an indictment

for “carnal knowledge of a brute animal. ”

 

FEBRUARY 10, 1997

Publications Board
disappointed in newspa-
persfconduct

To the editor:

I am writing this letter because I am
very disappointed in the material that has
been published in W&L’s newspapers the
past few weeks. It started with one poorly
written article in The Trident, and now the
two publications are hurling insults back
and forth. So, in an effort to stop the
bickering, I’m going to add my two cents.

The problems began with Holly
Thomsen’s article on The Ring-tum Phi’s
financial situation. I was irritated with
Thomsen because of the material mis-
statements she made about the Publica-
tions Board in her article. However, C.E.
Miller took it as a personal attack on the
Phi.

C.E. Miller then wrote a scathing col-
umn in the Phi that bashed The Trident for
bashing the Phi. Instead of offering cre-
ative criticism, she hurled remarks that

» could only hurt The Trident ,without back-

ing up her words with hard facts. Miller’s
column succeeded in giving the Phi staff
a pat on the back, but incited the biting
sarcasm of the infamous Glenn Miller in
the process.

Glenn Miller wrote a column that
wasway out-of-line. His column was more
of an attack than C.E. Miller’s column.
He called the Phi staff jealous. Jealous of
what? If they really wanted to be on The
Trident staff, they would at least have
approached the other paper about work-
ing for it. Then, Glenn Miller implied that

 

OPINION / ADVERTISEMENTS

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

the stacks of Phi’s that used to stand
unclaimed for weeks illustrated the poor
quality of the Phi. He was wrong on that
one. It was not that no one wanted to read
the Phi—instead, it was that the papers
were not being delivered. In fact, the
stacks of Phi’s no longer exist because the
Phi has two business managers that now
deliver the papers.

However, I did have to laugh when
Glenn Miller insulted the Phi for “faulty
grammar and unintelligible sentences.”
These problems are big, but not as big as
the problems The Trident has with facts.

For example, I will point out the fact
errors Thomsen made in her article on the
Phi. First, the surplus in the Publications
Board account was not larger than usual at
the beginning of this school year as
Thomsen stated. We also cleared $10,000
the year before.

Thomsen then stated the salaries of
Publication Board members at an incor-
rect amount. A simple read of the current
Pub Board Constitution or consultation
with me would have pointed that out. In
gathering this information, Thomsen told
me she referred to a version of the Pub
Board Constitution that was at least two
years old.

Also, Thomsen was incorrect in saying
that if the Phi does not pay off its entire
loan to the Pub Board, the Pub Board
members will not be paid. The Pub Board
only needs part of the loan to be repaid so
the members will receive their salaries.
Also, the Phi does not have to pay back the
loan, especially if the funds are not avail-
able. If, and only if, the funds are avail-
able, the Pub Board will be reimbursed.

And here is a more recent fact error that.

appeared in a different article—did you
know that O.J. was found guilty in a civil
trial? Hmmm...

So, my message to the editors both
newspapers is this: stop the petty bicker-
ing and concentrate on what really
counts—thejournalism. Neither publica-
tion is perfect, and neither am I for that
matter. However, the insults do not ac-
complish anything except creating bad
feelings among the publications. Believe
it or not, no one outside your circles really
cares about the personal jeers.

W&L is a small university, and it has
two great newspapers. So take advantage
of it!!! Support each other—-or at least
ignore each other if you aren’t mature
enough to deal with the supposed rivalry.

Darcey Livingston
President, The Publications Board

Bickering makes both
papers look silly

To the editors of The Trident and
The Ring-tum Phi:

Everyone on campus has read the
recent developments surrounding The
Ring-tum Phi’s problems with their
former business manager, and we have
also read about how this has become a
media field day for The Trident. The
Ring-tum Phi’s new business manag-
ers, Neal Kohl and Blake Lovelace,
are apparently making strides to clear-
ing their debt up, and starting fresh

_ IL.

;,,».,~, ».«.v-  ~ ‘-. ~i¢~~

Summerjobs at Washington and Lee

Counselors for Summer Scholars
June 29 to July 25, 1997

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program for 120 rising high school
seniors. Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 students in Graham-Lees
dormitory and plan evening and weekend activities. Eleven positions are avail-
able. Application deadline is February 28, 1997.

 WS“pecialPIogra‘..’ miliisiiikesidentitssistants

June 15 to August 3, 1997

The Office of Special Programs employs ﬁve \X/&L students to serve as host/

hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs, including Alumni Colleges,

Elderhostel and adult conferences. Duties include facilities management and
housekeeping, receptions and transportation. Application deadline, March 15,

1997.

For further information, please Contact the Office of Special
Programs, Howard House, 4638723.

TOYOTA‘

". . . The RAV4, Which Corners Better, Rides More Smoothly And Feels

s REE v4

"Toyota's New RAV4 Seems To Bridge The Cast Chasm Between Car And Truck. This
Little ‘Wagon With Big Wheels Is A Car And A Truck."

"Rally-Car Performance, Camry-Like Quality"

More Nimble Than Any SUV Made."
‘the RAW Is A Fun~Junkie's Dream Machine.‘ -Car And Driver, April '95

There's More. Your RAV4 Can Be A 2-Door Or 4-Door, A Front-Wheel
Drive Or A 4-Wheel Drive, On-Road Or Off-Road With Room For Up

our men: AT vo un
Simpéz &bBest

To 5' And Cargo,

TOYOTARAV4 . .. . IT'S

@ TOYOTA

I love what you do for me

-Auloweek, June '96

Too.

4

rovum DEALER NOW!

before the end of the year.

As a writer for one of the papers, I
am writing on the behalf of several
writers for both papers I know first
hand about how each paper would like
the other to just disappear. But this
will never happen, and it probably
never will. Any good will that was
expressed between the two papers at
the beginning of the year has seem-
ingly vanished because of a few col-
umn inches. But, like any competing
newspapers in any market, it is time
that our two newspapers start to live
by some ethical guidelines and play
fair.

So, in light of the recent bickering
and childish behavior by BOTH pa-
pers, let’s try to agree on a few pro-
posals:

First, there are a number of very
talented people that work for both
papers, and, at the moment, that num-
ber is leaning toward The Trident. It
is a shame that on a campus as small
as ours, there are two newspapers that
are constantly bickering. Maybe the
campus needs to face it: we cannot
support two newspapers. Actually,
let me amend that. The campus can
support the two newspapers if they
can co—exist, publish on different days,
and stop trying to undermine the other.
It only makes both newspapers look

silly. Let’s have the talented writers \

for both papers rise above this petti-
ness and use their talents construc-
tively.

Second, I call upon the editors of
the papers to observe somejournalis-
tic ethics and refrain from printing

” ‘life. fP1_eas_e*con'si‘drer the"1oviIIg"op’-We 

will help you.

~Car And Drizitr, April '96
-Car Ami Driver, July '96

PAGE 5

material that blatantly attacks the other

newspaper. Some good-natured hu-.
mor is all right, but the kind of ven-.‘-
omous attacks both newspapers make.’
toward each other have no purpose;
and make me sick. Could we behave,

like the adults we claim to be and

maybe take Journalism 344 next Win-_

ter Term? In my home town, there are
three rival newspapers, but none of
them hang the other’s.dirty laundry
out, and they certainly do not let their
columnists do it.

Third, these newfound ethics should"

start now, before The Ring-tum Phi.

digs up some of The Trident’s dirt.

Finally, there are certain writers on»
both papers, namely columnists, that
people read religiously. I would also
like to challenge the many excellent-
writers that are on this campus to write.
for both The Ring-tum Phi and The;
Trident. Let’s weed out some of the
dead, rotting wood that stinks up the?
pages of both papers.

The newspaper situation on our;
campus has set journalism back 100}
years. I am waiting to see Josephi
Pulitzer or William Randolph Hearst’sj
names gracing some of the bylines. I;
would expect so much more from af‘
campus that boasts such an excellentji
journalism school. Ifl had to propose?
a solution to all this, I’d start a third;
newspaper, grab the best writers from
both papers, and put the other two out}
of business.

Submitted anonymously by a student’
newspaper writer

Do you know someone who is
‘pregnant and considering adoption?

Give the baby the best opportunity in

tion of adoption with Sue and John, a

happily married couple offering to

Ask for Ruthzi (804) 832-2049

    

$7.00 per hour plus $150.00 per I

month housing allowance. Largest

rental service on the Outer Banks of 3

North Carolina (Nags Head). Call

Dona for application and housing 3

info (800) 662-2122.

  

Wswnnmvo -
Wltmool. ‘Puck -

Generals in action this week:

Monday at Randolph-Macon. 7:30 p.m.;
Wednesday at Lynchburg. 7:30 p.m.;
Saturday at Roanoke. 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday vs. Virginia Wesleyan. 7:00 p.m.:
Thursday vs. Emory & Henry. 7:00 p.m.;
Saturday at Roanoke. 4:00 p.m.
Tuesday at Hollins. 6:30 p.m.

Sunday at Dickinson

PAGE 6

BASKETBALL,

S

SWIMMING, WRESTLING,

Ellie ilting-him iﬁlii

PORTS

INDOOR TRACK

Last week’s results:

Mnun-I-nu. - L. 88-62. vs. Virginia Wesleyan:
L. 97-94 (OT).
 - L. 61-48. vs. Eastern Mennonite:
W. 74-53. at Hollins:
W. 76-71. vs.

vs. Eastern Mennonite

Randolph-Macon

FEBRUARY 10, 1997

Men’s basketball drops another overtime heartbreaker

Generals lose
third overtime
game of season

BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

All good teams endure grow-

ODAC. W&L was routed by
Virginia Wesleyan, 88-62,
Wednesday night and then suc-
cumbed to Eastern Mennonite
in overtime, 97-94, Saturday
night.

The Generals looked to end
their 11-game losing streak
Wednesday at home against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan but showed no
signs of it early in the game after
they quickly fell behind, 8-O.

ing pains before be- W&Lrecovered to
ginning to jell. The knotthecontestat24-
young Washington 24 with just over five
and Lee men’s baS- minutes remaining in
ketball team hopes the first half. But as
the same holds true quickly as the Gener-
for it. als caught up, the

As for now, the Marlins grabbed back
frustration continues the advantage by end-
to mount forthe Gen- ing the half on an 1 1-
erals after they 4 run to take a 35-28

dropped two more
games this week to
fall to 2-17 overall, 1-12 in the

 

lead into the locker
room.
The second half started as

badly as the first half ended for
the Generals. Virginia Wesleyan
stormed out of the break on a 19-
4 spree to take command of the
game at 54-32. The Generals
spent the remainder of the game
in an unsuccessful attempt to
reel in the Marlins and lost, 88-
62. The Generals did not help
their cause by committing 25
turnovers during the game and
being outrebounded 26-14 in the
second half.

“Our second half was ter-
rible,” freshman center Rich
Peterson said. “We played with
no confidence and just let Vir-
ginia Wesleyan take the game
away from us.”

Peterson did his best to sup-
port the Generals by scoring 15
points and pulling down eight
rebounds. Junior Kelly Dyer
added 11 points.

The Generals had beaten
Eastern Mennonite at home for
the past three years and looked
to keep the streak going Satur-
day in their final home game of
the season.

But the only streak that con-
tinued was W&L’s bad luck in
close games as Eastern Menno-
nite slid past the Generals, 97-
94, in overtime. The loss was
W&L’s third in the extra period
this year. . .

The Generals started slowly
once again as the Royals dashed
to an 11-point lead, but W&L
rallied to pullwithintwo at half-
time, 45-43. The Generals
scored the first three points of
the second half to pull into the
lead at 46-45, but they could not
sustain the momentum and soon
fell behind once again.

The Royals, however, could
not get the Generals out of their

rearview mirror once they re-
tookthe lead. W&Lhung tough,
and freshman guard Matt Jack-
son nailed a three-pointer with
1:02 left in regulation to tie the
score at 83-83. The game went
into overtime with the count re-
maining the same.

Freshman Scott Hudson
made a basket to begin over-
time, and the Generals looked to
finally assertthemselvesontheir
home turf and win for the first
time in the Warner Center since
a 79-78 defeat of Guilford back
on December 6. But once again
Eastern Mennonite regained the
momentum, and the Royals led
throughout most of overtime.

W&L was not about to fade
off quietly into the night, how-
ever. In a fashion similar to the
end of regulation, the Generals
rallied to tie the score late as
Peterson converted a three-point
play with 33 seconds left. The
game appeared destined for a
second overtime, but the Royals
had other ideas.

Eastern Mennonite inbounded
the ball, pushed it underneath the
basket and then flipped it back
out behind the are, where Mike
McElroy was waiting. McElroy
drilled the trey with only four
seconds left to drive the ﬁnal
dagger into the home team’s
hearts.

The Royals escaped Lexing-
ton and headed back to
Harrisonburgwiththe 97-94vic-
tory in hand, leaving the dis-
traught Generals searching for
answers.

" “It’s just really frustrating,”
Peterson said of the team’s luck
in tight games. “Hopefully, with
more experience in the future
we’ll be able to win those close

games.”

Peterson once again led W&L
with 19 points and 10 rebounds.
Hudson came up big with a ca-
reer-high 17 points and Dyer
amassed 15 points. Freshman
guard Mike Faber also hit a ca-
reer-high with 12 points while
Jackson scored 12 points to go
along with five assists.

This season has been a learn-
ing experience for the Generals,
and many of the players have
had to learn quickly. In a team
without a senior presence after
Chris Couzen’s retirement and
with only six juniors and sopho-
mores on the roster, W&L has
looked to the freshmen to shoul-
der a large part of the scoring
and rebounding load. No fresh-
man has done as well at that as
Peterson.

Although he admits he needs
to get even stronger to dominate
in the physical ODAC, the 6-
foot-6 Trumbull, Connecticut
native has more than held his
own on the floor. Peterson leads
the team with 13.9 points and
7.0 rebounds per game, but he is
not particularly impressed with
personal accomplishments.

“I’m happy to be a contribut-
ing part of the team,” he said,
“but I just wish we could find a
way to win some games.”

The Generals will next get a
chance to do that tonight at
Randolph-Macon, kicking off a
season-ending five-game road
trip.

Despite the team’s struggles
this year, Peterson believes the
young Generals can pick up the
pace before it is too late and
finish its long season on a posi-
tive note.

“We’re just trying to win as

Publicity Photo

Junior forward Kelly Dyer goes up for the shot.

many games as we can to try to
salvage the season,” he said.
“We still have a team goal of
making the conference tourna-
ment, and that isn't out of reach.

I thinkthat would really give the
team a boost, and even if we
didn’twin any games in thetour-
nament, it would give us more
confidence for next, year.”

Women’s hoops shocks Randolph-Macon

    

Photo by Mark Slomiany

Amber Hinkle goes airborne
around a defender for a shot.

jock Shorts  

Generals defeat
   R-MCforﬁrsttime
in school history

BY SUZANNE SCOTT
PHI STAFF WRITER

ful weekend.

Hollins.

victory.

Indoor Track:

The men’s and women’s indoor track

teams headed to the Virginia Tech Invita-
tional Saturday and came away with strong

performances.

For the men, three runners won their
races, including senior Sandy Hooper in the
800,junior Will Olson in the 3000 andjunior
Sophomore
Natasha Dorofeeva led the women’s team
by setting a new school indoor record in the

Taylor Shultz in the mile.

800 with a time of 2:26.40.

The men’s team is idle next weekend,
while the women’s team will travel to
Carlisle, Pennsylvania on Sunday to face

Dickinson.

Scholar-Athletes:

The W&L Athletic Department recently

fall term.

Messmore.

Athletes.

The highest men’s team GPA belonged
to the cross country squad with its 3.183. 13
of the 22 W&L teams had at least a 3.0 team

GPA.

After a disappointing 61-
48 loss to Eastern Mennonite
Tuesday, the Washington and
Lee women’s basketball team
came back to have a success-

On Thursday, the Generals
traveled to Roanoke to take on
The Generals pre-
vailed with an exciting 74-53

Withjust over five minutes
left to play in the first half, the score was

 

announced that it will award Scholar-Ath-
lete Awards to 73 student-athletes for earn-
ing at least a 3.5 grade-point average during

Eight W&L athletes received at least a
4.0 GPA for fall term, including senior All-
ODAC soccer star Jenni Grant, senior All-
America swimmer Nathan Hottle and se-
nior All-ODAC cross country runner Nat

The women’s soccer team led the way
with the highest team cumulative GPA,
3.221, and had 11 players named Scholar-

 

  

Phi sports staff would like to congraiu

the 73 W&L

Scholar-Athletes. Keep up the good we

  
 

 

Spend your summer in the
Colorado Rockies

Experience the outdoors and help create memories
at the King Mountain Ranch Resort. For an
application and our summer job openings, call

(800) 476-5465 or e-mail us at
hosts@kingranchresort.com

    
     
       

 
 
   
  

tied at 20. The Generals closed out the
first half with an impressive 14-3 run to
take a 34-23 halftime advantage.

These ladies started off strong in the
second half with a 16-2 run in the first six
minutes. The Generals acquired a 25-
point lead at 50-25 which they held onto
for a 21-point victory.

This win brought the Generals to 7-13
overall and 5-11 in the ODAC. Hollins
fell to 3-14overall and 2-12 in the ODAC.
Freshman Ansley Miller had a great game,
scoring 18 points with nine
assists.

Other prominent Generals
in Thursday’s game were
sophomores Amber Hinkle
and Chrissy Burghardt, who
scored 18 and 16 points, re-
spectively, and freshman Jes-
sica Morton, who scored 12
points.

On Saturday afternoon in
the Warner Center, the Gen-
erals bested defending ODAC
champion Randolph-Macon for the first

Parcel Dia de San
Valentin, el 14 de febrero,
envie el Romillete do
Romance" de FTD’.

;La cxpresion sin fin de
amor verdadero!

Desde $00

‘WWI. Vllilivsln 24450
540 463.934:

Take It All Off

before heading south for Winter break.

time in school history, 76-71.

The Generals hit 76 percent from the
ﬁeld during the first half. At halftime,
the Generals were leading Randolph-
Macon, 42-32.

In the second half, the Generals hit an
impressive 10 for 10 from the free-throw
line to clinch the victory after rallying
from a 67-62 deficit.

Saturday’s game brought the Gener-
alsto 8-13 overall and 6-11 in the ODAC.
Randolph-Macon fell to 9-9 overall and
7-7 in the ODAC.

Amber Hinkle had a remarkable game,
scoring a career-high 25 points for the
Generals. Her layup with 1:19 remain-
ing gave W&L a lead at 70-69 which it
would not relinquish.

Freshman Ansley Miller again played
well, scoring 22 points with eight re-
bounds and seven assists. Tonia Dean
also played well with 15 points and 11
rebounds.

The women’s basketball team plays
again Tuesday at 7 p.m. against Virginia
Wesleyan.

Con cariﬁo para siempre.

 
   

(Your unwanted hair, that is.)

Experience ouchless hair removal with the gentlest waxing technique available.

Mention this ad for a 10% discount on all waxing services.

Positive

“Experience Beauty from the inside Out”

Imaging
13 1/2 W. Nelson St. Lexington VA 24450

540-463-6662

   

 

.1/'

 

