. :~/7 
 3'72 . 
V55 22.

V.  
no. 1;.
C’ ,Q/.

I

IDE

FEATURES

Photo by Guy Molyneux
Ktdost students don’t know
"atii. across from the freshman
"lilting lot is a road leading to
‘ ‘ittionally acclaimed theater.
Neg tied in rural Lexington, the
 l}leater at Lime Klin offers a
rV%itriety of plays, concerts and
I iecial events.
-1
Research shows many col-
e graduates don’t have ad-
uate writing skills. Can you
Iv te right? Come to the Ca-
reer and Development and
Placement Office’s presenta-
tion on writing skills and the
70%] market.

- I SEE PAGE 3

I

Q OPINION

ALI/MN! W‘

. Fringe groups seem more
evalent today than they have
een in U.S. history. Aided by
1e Internet, these groups’ mes-
: ges are spreading world-wide.
Tom the Right examines the ef-
ects of increased fringe activ-
ty on the reputation of the Re-
ublican party. GreenLand dis-
el‘ the fear of conservative-
inded W&L students that re-
*ent changes on campus will

hreaten their way of life.

It
‘ SEE PAGE 5

SPORTS

I
The women’s tennis team
ished fourth this past week at
e-NCAA championships in
"‘ emont, CA. Junior Natalia
«arcia received the Arthur Ashe
pbrtsman of the Year award.
he Generals beat Pomona-
itger and Gustavus Adolphus,
iut lost to Kenyon College and
Emory University.

SEE PAGE 6

Almost ﬁfty students gathered in Gaines Hall last night to
discuss alcohol abuse at W&L.

Photo by Ilollister Hover/Photo Editor

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

@1112 ﬂing-tum {Hm

I / 7 ,
‘VOLUME ég, NUMBER/3

JAMES ca. urvaum
wwuwmou I Luz Liiiiiixniiaiiry
.\/A 24436

US Postage
PAID
Permit No 7
Lexington. \'A

MAY 12, 1997

Student death sparks debate

BY ANDREA EWING AND
DARCEY LIVINGSTON
THE R1A'G— Tl/M PH1

Are student attitudes toward alco-
hol a problem at Washington and Lee?
Almost ﬁfty students met in Gaines
Hall last night to discuss how they
could change the way students view
drinking. The meeting was organized
by freshman Brooke Stanley and sev-
eral of her sorority sisters last week.
Stanley stressed that the meeting did
notjust stem from the recent death of
W&L freshman Jack Bowden, which
might have been alcohol related.
“It’s been simmering all year,”

Stanley said. “It’s not a movement
because of what happened. Ifit was
such, it would be short lived. Because
ofthe incident, students are ﬁred up.
But this has been brewing all year,
notjust with myself. but with others.”
Senior Ko—Ming Chang, who
helped Stanley organize the meeting,
expressed a similar opinion.
“Overdrinking goes on here all the
time,” said Chang. “You always see
people passed out at parties, but it’s
uncool to put that sort ofthing down.
You always hear guys bragging about
it. Whoo-hoo.”
Most of the concerned students
do not want to ban alcohol from cam-

pus. lnstead, they want to encourage
responsible alcohol consumption and
alternatives to drinking.

“I want to see suggestions of fun
things to do outside ofthe band party/
get—drunk scene,” Stanley said.

Stanley talked to Dean of the
Freshman Program Dennis Manning
and Dean OfStudents David Howison
to discuss ways to address the issue.
According to Stanley. the administra-
tion realizes it can change the rules,
but said any modiﬁcation of univer-
sity policy must come from the stu-
dents. The deans maintained that stu-

PLEASE sEE DISCUSSION P.4(;E 2

VMI welcomes a few good women as Sister Rats

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
PHI NEWS EDITOR

After almost a year of pre-op, Virginia Military Institute
appears ready for its sex change.

Less than a year after their defeat in United States vs. Vir-
ginia, at least twenty—seven out of the sixty-four accepted
women will enter the barracks as “Rats” on August 18. Two
ofthese women have SAT scores over 1540. One woman, a
physics major, achieved an 800 verbal score.

“These women are extremely qualified,” VMI superin-
tendent Maj. Gen. Josiah Bunting III said.

“Our goal is to go about the assimilation of women into
VMI better than any other school has done in the past,” As-
sistant to the Superintendent Col. Michael Bissell said.

VMI studied fourteen other colleges that went co-ed, in-
cluding Washington and Lee.

“We’ve garnered what they’ve done wrong and learned
from that,” Bissell said.

Every VMI cadet and faculty member underwent a six
hour orientation dealing with issues like fratemization, sexual
harassment and hazing.

“We’ve made it clear to the cadets that we will not toler-
ate any inappropriate behavior toward women,” Bunting said.

“I think that for this to work the cadets must have owner-
ship of it,” Bissell said. “We have immersed the cadets in
the preparations, and bless their hearts, they’ve worked hard.”

Starting in the fall, VMI will have an exchange program
with Texas A&M and Norwich University, Six upperclass
VMI cadets will spend the semester at each college, learning
how an established co-ed military school operates. In turn,
four men and two women will spend the semester at VMI,

the women from these schools working as role models for

PLEASE SEE VMI PAGE 2

The United States Public
Interest Group released a
report on May I rallying
for support against student
ﬁnancial aid reduction. If
passed, the cut could have

serious repercussions.

BY SARAH MELDRUM in town.

PHI STAFF WRITER

.A recently proposed education cut
threatens to cut federal student and school
ﬁnancial aid. With approximately 35%
to 40% of Washington and Lee students
receiving federal student aid, this could
mean disaster.

cal year 1998 budget is not passed, the
work study program will lose 51,000
studentjobs. Pell Grants, Title 1 Grants
and Goals 2000, grants that help schools
and students, would also suffer losses.
Many W&L students receiving fed-
eral ﬁnancial aid do work study, earn-
ing minimum wage in a variety of de-
partments on campus and organizations

“I use the money to buy books and
food and things like soap,” one W&L
student on ﬁnancial aid said. “I don’t
ask for money from my parents because
I’m on my own when I’m here.”

Following a national trend in rising
tuition cost, tuition at Washington and

Proposed education cut threatens studentaid

attend college.

college debt.

The U.S. Student Association, Rock the
Vote and U.S. Public Interest Research
Group have joined together with members

grow to 15.7 million by the year 2002. As
the marketplace becomes more competitive,
more people are ﬁnding it necessary to have
a college degree. Unfortunately, rising tu-
ition’ costs and a Inore competitive market-
place makes it more difﬁcult for students to

Many students rely on grants and loans
to help ﬁnance their education. A student
receiving a grant does not have to repay the
money; one with a loan must repay the
money, with varying interest rates. The
average student takes ten years to pay off a

Photo by Guy Molyneux/Photographer

The guns of VMI will roar for at least 27 women next year. The sex change will begin August 18.

BY ANNA PARR1s
PHI STAFF WRITER

and record album sale.

at either $1 or $2.

SARAH gets some...
CD sale raises cash

The new CD store in town
felt the heat last week as WLUR
radio conducted its annual CD

Radio show host stationed
themselves last Thursday
through Saturday behind tables
of CD’s, tapes and record al-
bums outside the Co-op. Mu-
sic for all tastes went for a steal

enough stuff, we have a sale."

Ultimately, the radio staff
hopes that the sale will in-
crease WLUR’s visibility on
campus and increase the num-
ber oflisteners. “Because it is
student—run, interest in the ra-
dio station waxes and wavers,"
Graham said.

WLUR is recognized na-
tionally by the College Music
Journal. a periodical that
keeps up with the current
trends in campus radio stations

If the President and Congress fail to

agree on a 1998 ﬁscal year budget by the
end ofthe year, education spending might
be reduced. The Senate Appropriations
Committee approved a proposal April 30
that would cut education spending in such
a circumstance.

If the proposal is adopted and the ﬁs-

Lee has increased about 4—5% in recent
years, W&L Director of Financial Aid
John DeCourcy said. Since 1988, na-
tional tuition has risen by 54%.
Although W&L’s enrollment has re-
mained stable, national enrollment rates
have increased and are expected to con-
tinue to expand. The U.S. Department
of Education projects enrollment to

of the Senate to initiate an Internet campaign
to increase support for federal student aid.
For Inore infonnation, check out http: /
/www.pirg.Org/student/aid/pe-
tition.

Article information came from the U.S.
Public Interest Group and the Department
of Education homepage: ht tp : / /
www.ed.gov/

WLUR donated all proceeds
to Students Against Rockbridge
Area Hunger.

Lack of space within the ra-
dio station creates a need for the
sales. “It’s like a yard sale,” sale
coordinator Charlotte Graham
remarked. “We accumulate
stuff, and when we have

throughout the country. “We
are reporting to them now. and
that means we have a strong
campus radio station,“ Gra-
ham said.

WLUR will broadcast a
morning show from the C o-op
this week, and is considering
taking shows out to the Hill.

—»».¢

News
Features
Opinion
Sports
91'
General Notes
Reviews
A eenland

The Big, Fan

Photo by llollisfer Ilovcy/I’htoEditor
The South is Rising Again

Several members of the Kappa Alpha Order arrive,
dressed in their Confederate uniforms, to pick up their
dates for KA’s annual Old South party out in front of
the BDG quad.

PLEASE

VISIT OUR WEBSITE

A

Lexington holds beer review

BY DOUG BROWN &
ROBIN SEATON
PHI STAFF WRITERS

A wide selection of specialty
beers and chilly weather greeted
attendants at the First Annual
Downtown Lexington Brew Re-
view, held Saturday, May 10. at
Courthouse Square. The event
presented beer afficionados with
the opportunity to try a wide va-
riety of unique ales, lagers, and
ciders, many available from area
merchants.

The $12 entrance fee entitled
each person to twelve samples and
a plethora ofsouvenirs, from beer
coasters to glasses to bottle open-
ers. Representatives from Clipper
City, Paulaner, Red Hook, and
thirteen other brewing companies
were available to serve samples
and discuss characteristics of

THTTP.'

//www.

sixty assorted beverages offered
at the Review. Drinks ranged
from traditional ales and lagers to
uncommon fruit blends. “ Desig-
nated drivers could enter for $5 and
receive souvenirs as well as comple-
mentary soft drinks and O’Douls."
Jennifer Dallavecchia from the Lex-
ington Downtown Development
Association said.

“Considering the weather,
turnout was good.” Chuck Smith
of Washington Street Purveyors
said. Smith, along with other area
merchants, hopes the event will
improve sales in speciality beer
items. Smith’s display also in-
cluded information and an active
demonstration of home brewing
techniques.

The LDDA, in conjunction with
area businesses and distributors.
hopes to make the Review an an-
nual event, and attendants seemed

WLU.

equally eager to see the event re-
turn. “I feel the event needs to be
expanded with more breweries.
bigger glasses, and lower entrance
fees," Natural Bridge resident
Tom Ahnemann said. “I would
even like to see the event become
free in the future.”

Washington and Lee junior Demian
McGarry also enjoyed the event but
wished the representatives "had given
away bigger coasters.“ Many W&L
students attended the event. which
also attracted residents from Lex-
ington. Roanoke. and even
Charlottesville.

The LDDA plans to sponsor the
$2,000 event next year. Many of the
drinks are also available from indi-
vidual area sponsors. including City
Steaks and Subs. Food Euphoriuin. The
Palms. The Southern Inn. Spniikyis.
The Staircase and Washington
Street Purveyors.

Eou/~PHI/

SENIORS ON DISPLAY

Three art majors will present their senior art show in duPont Gallery
this Friday. Marthe Honts, James Silberstein and Robert McKinnon will
introduce their works during the reception from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. The
show will include stained glass, steel sculpture and paintings. It will be
on display until June 14.

search for Microsoft.

WEBER EXPERT SPEAKS

COLLECTIONS ON EXHIBIT

Fourteen oil paintings from the Reeves and Bradford Collections, are
currently on exhibit in the Commerce school. This is the first time for
most of them to be on display. The eleven Bradford Collection paintings
include works donated to the university during the 19th century by wealthy
Philadelphia lawyer Vincent L. Bradford and two paintings from a col-
lection donated in 1967 by Euchlin and Louise Herreshoff Reeves. The
final painting was given to the university recently by conservator Toshio
Takashima of Richmond. VA. This exhibit is part of W&L’s conservation pro-
gram to restore and exhibit all the paintings held in the Reserve Collection.

 

WOOLDRIDGE SISTERS SAY GOODBYE

Christi and Maggie Wooldridgc will present a farewell concert on
Thursday, May 15, in honor of Cln‘isti‘s gmtltizitiott and the end of the
sisters’ musical training together. The concert will feature Christi on the
violin and Maggie on the piano. It begins at 8 p.m. in the Johnson The-
atre ofthe Lenfest Center. The public is invited to attend.

CONGRATS TO W&L JUNIOR

In recognition of his exceptional achievement and ability,junior John
Thrall is the recipient of a Beineke Brothers Memorial Scholarship. As
the winner of one of 16 scholarships distributed among 90 schools, Thrall
will receive $2000 upon graduation and $15,000 for each year of gradu-
ate study. Thrall is a‘ computer science, math and economics major, a
member of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity and Habitat for Humanity and serves
on the Student Publications Board and is an editor for the Washington
and Lee Journal of Science. He will spend the summer conducting re-

Columbia University Professor of Sociology Gunther Roth will speak
on Max Weber on Tuesday, May 20 and Wednesday, May 21 at 8 p.m.
in room 327 of the Commerce School. The lectures are titled, “Religion,
Capitalism and Democracy: Anglo-American Religious Inﬂuences on
Max Weber and Protestant Social Refonn in 19th Century Gennany,”
and “Religion, Capitalism and Democracy: Global Capitalism and
Multiethnicity in Max Weber’s Time and Ours, the 1890s and 1990s.”

ETHICS INSTITUTE COMES TO W&L

Washington and Lee will hold a business ethics institute on May 16
and 17. The institute is designed to bring scholars to campus, engaging
them in seminaifwith undergraduates and visiting practitioners in the
business ethics ﬁeld. The keynote address will be given by Joanne B.
Ciulla, Coston Family Chair in Leadership and Ethics at the Jepon
Schoolof Leadership Studies at the University of Richmond. Her public
lecture is titled “Leadership and the Ethics of Empowennent,” and will begin at
4:30 p.m. on Friday, May 16 in room 221 of the Commerce school.

NEWS

 from page I

the female “Rats.”

Gen. Bunting said that any changes
made for the women are “superficial”
and will not threaten or compromise
the nature of the institution.

“Many ofthe women wrote to me
and told me that if we changed any-
thing and made any concessions for
them, we would be insulting them,”
Bunting said.

One of the most noticeable changes
will be the end of the ten-year prac-
tice of shaving the “Rat’s” heads.
Other changes include shades for all
of the windows in the barracks, to be
used for changing purposes only, and
bathrooms with individual stalls and
doors for men and women.

Men’s showers will remain com-
munal, while the women will have
individual shower stalls.

“It’s a hygiene issue with the
women,” Public Relations Director Lt.

DISCUSSION

from page 1

dents must change their attitudes
toward alcohol before the admin-
istration can make any policy al-
terations.

At the meeting, Stanley stated
the focus of all discussion should
be on changing attitudes about
drinking. The students then broke
up into six groups to talk about
three main issues: why they were
at the meeting, how they would
change student attitudes toward al-

Colonel Michael Strickler said.
“There are certain times ofthe month
when women need their privacy.”

The Board of Visitors will decide
Wednesday on some particular regu-
lations concerning dating, fraterniza-
tion and makeup.

“I assume regulations about
makeup and dating will be a lot like
other military schools,” Bissell said.
This would mean no makeup or dat-
ing for the duration of the Rat line.
After that, Bissell thinks that women
will be allowed to wear conservative
makeup. Dating will probably be al-
lowed after the Rat line, but not within
the same company, Bissell said.

Most agree that the arrival of the
opposite sex will alter the character
and personality of the 158-year-old in-
stitution.

“I think it will change the person-
ality of VMI in ways that are impos-
sible to predict right now,” Bunting
said. “I don’t think the fundamental

cohol, and their suggestions to
modify W&L’s alcohol policy? Each
group wrote its responses on index
cards, which Stanley will compile in
a report and present to Dean Manning
and Dean Howison this week.

Some of the drinking alternatives
suggested include building the stu-
dent commons sooner, keeping the
GHQ open all night and sponsoring
Fridays! non-alcoholic events at fra-
ternity houses.

In addition to presenting the report
to the deans, Stanley has several other
ideas to create the “safest environ-
ment possible” for alcohol consump-

character, insofar as the military sys-
tem and the honor system, will
change.”

Bunting also thinks that the very
architecture of VMI will play- a- part
in the change. - 

“Not many people think about this,
but the single barrack building, where
all of the cadets live, is very signiﬁ-
cant,” Bunting said. “There are no
corridors, the doors are glass, and if
you stand in the middle ofthe court-
yard, you can see into every room.
With women there, this will alter the
ambience and texture oflife in the bar-
racks.”

Administrators foresee minor prob-
lems, especially in the first few weeks.

“VMI cadets have always been
taught to treat women as ladies. Now
they have to learn to treat them like
‘Rats,’” Strickler said. “This might
be a tough one to overcome.”

Bunting was in Toronto when he
heard the Supreme Court decision,

tion at W&L.

Her first idea is to create a bulle-
tin board in the dining hall that tar-
gets freshmen. The board would con-
tain all articles published about alco-
hol-related accidents at W&L, includ-
ing deaths.

Stanley also wants to compile a list
of upperclassmen‘s names for what
she calls a “Freshman List.” The list
would contain names ofstudents cat-
egorized according to how much they
drink: non-drinkers, moderate drink-
ers and responsible drinkers. The
names would be placed in freshman
orientation packets. The freshmen

    
  
   
     
   
  
 
   
    
   
  
    
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
 
  
  
  

MAY 12, 1997

ironically giving a talk to the Ngrtl
American Conference of Boy
Schools and Men’s Colleges.

“In my heart of hearts, I expected
us to lose,” Bunting said. “But I was
cast down by how overwhelmingiithe
vote was.

“One thing I said at the conference
was that the men‘s colleges should
learn to better organize a hard ime
adjusting to the Supreme Court deci-
sion, Bunting said. “The alumni ha‘_d\.
a settled commitment that a huge rat
of VMI was its all-maleness.”

As for the cadets, they appers to
be as resigned to the inevitable.

“The Supreme Court ruled that we
had to do this, so we might as well do
it right," freshman Jake Wilson said
“Threatening these women or trying
to run them out is not going to help
VMI in a positive way.” '; I

“I could care less," freshman iAdam
Pool said. “I think the place willl§s‘tneI
better." “

1 « , _.os.¢|“

could then contact the upperclal, ,-
men to talk about drinking at W . ‘
or just to hang-out. , '.

Although she is too busy {.30 I
head it herself, Stanley encour-If 
ages others to create an organiza-It 2
tion to address the issues di‘s-3
cussed at last night’s meeting. 
Several students have already ex- 
pressed interest in starting the or In
gamzatlon.

Anyone who wants to partici-
pate in any of the above activi-
ties should contact Brooke ,

easy.

Work for
the Phi!

It’s really

To join the team, just
come to our staff
meeting at 7:30 p.m.
on Wednesday at the

University Center. ,

 

BY MATTHEW CRAIG
PH1 STAFF WRITER

bling, on to the websites of the week:

Once again it is time for the websites of the week. The organi-
zational theme for this week’s selections is cheap pets. However,
if anybody ﬁnds this theme to be lacking then we can just con-
sider all of the sites animal-oriented. Not that it matters; this isn’t
exactly Pulitzer prize winning material here. Enough of my ram-

I Like Monkeys

http: //www2 . hawaii . edu/~pfunai/FUN/monkeys . html

This is only a text page that tells of a young man’s misadven-
tures when he purchases 200 cheap monkeys, but it is by far one
of the funniest things I have read in a long time. In my opinion,
though, this page is so much more than just a story. It offers
countless ideas that can be put to good use in everyday life such
as creative gift ideas for your friends next Christmas, inexpen-
sive ways to heat your dorm room this particularly cold May,
ways to maximize your use of empty freezer space and most im-
portantly proper toilet maintenance. I found this website to be
quite hilarious, but that might be because I like monkeys.

Websites of the Week

Have you ever wondered what Marge Simpson, Mr. Spock
or Liberace would look like if they were Chia pets? Well, if
you have, you either need to get out of the house more often
or come visit the Chia Pet Zoo where all your questions will
be answered. Although, this site is featured for the Chia Pet
Zoo, it offers so much more. Created by some guys who have
apparently spent a good amount of time driving around the
United States, this page offers two more great options, namely
Dead Fords and pictures of various road signs from around
the country. The Dead Fords link is quite obviously pictures
of dead Ford cars. I might have only found this amusing since
my own car, not a Ford, recently died on me. The other link
provides pictorial proof that most people on the highway are
pretty stupid and what might become the new spring break
destination for Washington and Lee students.

_ I’
'!‘I'I,-H
""'~‘i5._ Do you know someone who is ' ' . *

pregnant and considering
aabption?t*r*c '  ‘
' Give the baby thebest opportunity
in life. Please consider the loving

option of adoption with Sue and
John, a happily married couple
offering to share their lives with a

' ' . Speak with someone who cares

and will help you.

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
  

Stanley at 462-4476 or
bstcm/ey@w/u.edu. 
1
Kw

 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

The Chia Pet Zoo
http: //www . accessone . com/~jonat:hin/jmain . htm

Tongue of Frog

http: //www. tiac . net/users/mharney/tof . html

From this site you can access the Tongue of Frog homepage.
No, it’s not a page for witches dedicated to uses for frog tongues.
In reality, it is a page dedicated to a child’s toy or, more appropri-
ately, to the poorly translated instructions on the back of the pack-
aging. Examples of the instructions include, “Although not toxic,
do not eat,” and “Do not pull on tongue or it will go oﬂf.” I have
to agree with the creator of this page that packing high explo-
sives into a children’s toy may not be the best way to insure that
they use it properly. Anyway, check it out. Shock you greatly.

   

Tuesday Wednesday

 

High: 60°
Low: 48°

High: 65°
Low: 44°

 

This Week’s Weather:

  

Thursday

High: 70°
Low: 47°

High: 74°
Low: 50°

  
   

   

Friday Saturday

High: 76°
Low: 53°

From the National Weather Service

High: 78°
Low: 53°

Very Import

Your Neighborhood Food Market

Sign Up Today
And Start Saving

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

  

  

ant , A



    
   

 

MAY 12, 1997

 

PAGE 3

I 1997

5/27-31, 9/2-6 The Folktale Festival
All performances at] p.m.
at $10 Adults; $8 Students

6/4-28 Uncivil War

All performances in the Bowl at 8 p.m.

Previews: 6/4-5 Opening Night: 6/6
Q $7 Previews; $1OTues.-Thurs.; $15 Fri.—Sat.

7/2-8/2 Stonewall Country
All performances in the Kiln at 8 p.m.
Previews: 7/2-4 Opening Night: 7/5

‘( $7 Previews; $10 Tues.—Thurs.; $15 Fri.-Sat.

8/7-30 As You Like It

All performances in the Kiln at 8 p.m.

Previews: 8/7-8 Opening Night: 8/9
‘$7 Previews; $10 Tues.-Thurs.; $15 Fn'.—Sat.

‘PLAY SEASON

‘B00615

5/17 Fatty Lumpkin & The Love Hogs
'5/18 Robert Earl Keen
5/24-25 The Seldom Scene
6/1 Goose Creek Symphony
6/8 Alison Brown
/15 Solas
‘6/22 The Austin Lounge Lizards
6/29 Maura O'Connell
7/6 Richard Thompson
,7/13 Robin & Linda Williams
7/20 C.J. Chenier
7/27 Safﬁre, The Uppity Blues Women
8/3 The Bacon Brothers
§/10 Jon Edwards & Lisa McCormick
8/17 The Dixie Hummingbirds
8/24 Rev. Billy C. Vwrtz. Satan &Adam
8/31 The Metropolitan Blues All-Stars
/7 Don Edwards & Waddie Mitchell
9/14 The Lonesome River Band

CONCERT SERIES

Doug and Robin’s

  lllili““‘

BY B.J. WALKER
PHI STAFF WRITER

As spring term rolls on and laying in the sun
at Goshen begins to get a little old, stu-
dents begin to ﬁnd other ways to ﬁll the lazy
days of May. One possible diversion is an
evening at Lime Kiln.

Founded in 1983, Lime Kiln is one ofthe
many historic sites in the Lexington area.
The 12-acre-site is set in a former kiln
which mainly supplied lime used in the
paper industry.

The three performance areas of Lime Kiln,
the Kiln, the Bowl and the Big Top Tent, used
in the event of rain, provide a beautiful set-
ting for the many dramas and musical events
taking place there. Dress is casual and guests
are invited to bring picnic baskets and relax
under the trees before the show.

This year’s schedule will feature 20 con-
certs and a variety of plays presented in one
of the most attractive settings in the
Shenandoah Valley.

On May l7, Lime Kiln will host Fatty

II Palazzo, Lexington
North Main Street

Ratings (1-5): Pepper Grinder: 4; Powder Room: 3; Service: 4; Food Quality: 4;
Food Presentation: 4; Price Range: $7-$17 I

Lumpkin and the Love Hogs. This local rock
band will be the first group in the Coors Con-
cert Series, which will brino ov twe t
shows to the Lime Kiln this
a real blast, and great to da
Conner of Lime Kiln. The I
8 p.m., and tickets are $6
On May 18, Robert 3
Keen comes to Lime Ki;
Keen is ‘a weathered Tex
singer/songwriter who 
built a loyal following a 3
has toured the country. 
“Robert Earl has been 
popular with W&L studenti
said Conner. “This conc
almost sold out, and almo
of the tickets have been bou
by students, but there are 
a few tickets left.” Tickets
$16, and the concert starts Z
Lime Kiln brings The"
Lexington on May 24 and 2
bluegrass group has played Li"
the last seven seasons. During that time, they

: ‘-:.::-rl

2 sin: :5 5 u*:-i:”:I~.~,:‘.:

ll Palazzo, still the in-town reliable fa vorite

«Spos just could not bring him-
selfto leave town. He was still here
Sunday night after Alumni Week-
end ended, so we decided to go to II
Palazzo. “Yale-Boy” Jason decided
to‘ﬁoin us for another excursion, and
Nifer came along to chat with Spos
about Long Island, their mutual
home. We arrived with our appe-

V titgs early in the evening, prepared

for a hearty meal.
The staff quickly seated us at

a roomy round table; we re-

ceived water and menus, and the
waiter returned promptly to ask

_ for our drink orders. Wejoined

Spos in trying the house red
'ne, which proved a delightful
c plement to our meals. Yale-
B y chose a strong cup ofjava,
black of course, while Nifer pre-
ferred water. The drinks
quickly arrived while we were
pe using the menu.
Doug and Spos selected the la-
sagna, a perennial favorite that al-

ways satisﬁes, while Robin chose
the manicotti. Feeling adventur-
ous, Nifer pulled away from the
pack and opted for eggplant
parmesan, while Yale-Boy chose
a calzone with sauce on the side.

All of us except Jason re-
ceived a salad
with our meal. 
Spos chose
honey mustard
dressing. We
both opted for
oil and vinegar,
which was quite
delicious, while
Nifer declined
salad dressing.
The salads mate-
rialized promptly
in the company of a large bread bas-
ket. The bread proved excellent as
usual, as did the salads, and our
entrees arrived just as we ﬁn-
ished the greens.

Each dish was fresh from

K t is a familiar ritual. Nationwide, eighth and ninth grade
students lethargically drape across their desks, watching

an English teacher hand out yet another book to read. They turn

the cover, see “Romeo and Juliet,” and a collective moan hangs in

II Palazzo is
the best
option for ﬁne
Italian dining
in Lexington.

the oven and full of flavor,
and all were neatly presented
as well.

Jason proclaimed his calzone
and sauce very ﬁlling and tasty,
and Nifer enjoyed the eggplant
pannesan as well. Spos proved
his fondness for
the lasagna by
cleaning his plate
with relish, and
Doug was equally
complimentary of
his entree. Robin
struggled to ﬁnish
her manicotti——
not because of any
dislike for the

,, dish, butdue to the
generous portion.

Although everyone was full
after the enjoyable meal, our
waiter encouraged us to try the
desserts, and we succumbed to
temptation. Spos chose the
Calamazoo and Doug selected

the air while the teacher tries to look enthusiastic.

Before students pick up this introduction to Shakespeare, most
know the story of the two star-crossed lovers. The end, though,
disappoints some. Granted, the play would not be tragic if Romeo
and Juliet survived, but why, when Romeo left, did Juliet stay
behind? Why then concoct an elaborately faked death?

“I thought it was kind of lame,” law student Matt Young re-

Chocolate Pie; Nifer and Robin
shared a piece of Fudge Cheese-
cake. All ofthese were very rich
and sweet, extremely unhealthy
and absolutely delightful. After
lingering briefly to discuss the
meal’s finer points, we rolled
out of the restau-rant and into
the street. The meal was de-
lightful in all respects—ser-
vice, food presentation and par-
ticularly food quality.

Doug later asked Gina
Benincasa, one of II Palazzo’s
owners. about the rumor that ll
Palazzo will close to improve
Franco’s chances of success in
Lexington. The owner of F ranco’s
is actually Benincasa’s brother-in-
law, but she has no plans to
close her restaurant. She says
business for Il Palazzo con-
tinues to thrive, and she is
very grateful to the commu-
nity for the support.

ll Palazzo is the best option for

will play, also at 7 p.m.

Mettee had already been exposed to Shakespeare, however, hav-
ing both watched and performed in “MacBeth” in middle school.
“I was a witch,” she says, launching into the famous “Double,
double, toil and trouble...”

Shakespeare wrote 37 plays and composed a multitude of son-
nets and several narrative poems. Several ofShakespeare’s plays
have been adopted for ﬁlm. A Shakespeare on Film series is cur-
rently running in Northen Auditorium. Two versions of “Romeo
and Juliet” were shown earlier this month. On Monday, Olivier’s
“Hamlet” shows at 7 p.m.,

Shakespeare was born over four centuries ago, but his works

have proven to be one of the most popular and
well—received acts at Lime Kiln. There are
t' 0 'ons available. Assigned
wn seats are $18.
s to bring historic Appala-
Lexington._ They will
ent a Folk Tale Festival
rig the last week of May
se cast of three profes-
al actors/musicians will
ically interpret traditional
alachian folk tales.
ach showing will feature
one-hour stories, except
he Tuesday and Wednes-
:3! performances when area
ents participating in the
sts in Residence Program
H present the second tale of
E evening. Tickets are $10
— for W&L students.
"ents remaining in Lexing-
er, Lime Kiln has a full slate

— of shows p-i"ahhea'j"ihe highlight of which oc-

curs on August 3 when Kevin Bacon and his

brother Michael will perform their unusual and
highly acclaimed act. These famous siblings
were recently featured guests on the Jay Leno
Show, with Leno calling them the “new Everly
Brothers.”

In addition to plays and concerts, the The-
ater at Lime Kiln will host three special events
this year. The region’s finest wines, delicious
local fare and entertainment will be present at
the Rockbridge Food and Wine Festival on
Sept. 6. For frighteningly fun tales and origi-
nal music, spend your Halloween at the
Folktales by Firelight performance. And
for the holiday season, Lime Kiln will host
a Shenandoah Christmas with festive sto-
ries and carols.

For more information on the theater and
this season’s events, contact Lime Kiln at
463-3074 or stop by the box office at 14 S.
Randolph Street. The box office is open
Monday through Friday 10 a.m.-5:30 p.m.,
Saturdays 10 a.m.-5:30 p.m. and Sundays
12 p.m.-5 p.m. A credit card is required
for all reservations. W&L students receive
a $2 discount on all plays.

Photo by Hollister Hovey
ﬁne Italian dining in Lexington.
The restaurant always delivers
delicious food and good ser-
vice; Robin visited Il Palazzo
later in the week and had an
equally positive experience. It
offers plentiful portions and
reasonable pricing in a conve-
nient location.

ll Palazzo is a great place
to visit for almost any occa-
sion, from Parents’ Weekend

64/! ﬂﬂd

«gs/5,7

° A summary of a study published in Personnel

Update states: “Writing skills  of executives are
shockingly low, indicating that schools and col-
leges dismally fail with at least two-thirds of the
people who pass through the education pipeline
coming out unable to write a simple letter.”

0 In I988, Lin Grensing reported that 79 per cent
of surveyed executives cited writing as one of the
most neglected skills in the business world, yet
one of the most important to productivity.

° A 1992 survey of 402 companies reported by
the Associated Press noted that executives identi-
ﬁed writing as the most valued skill but said 80
percent of their employees at all levels need to
improve their writing skills.

° Results of a 1993 study by Olsten Corpora-
tion, a placement agency, were almost identical:
80 percent of 443 employers surveyed said their
workers needed training in writing skills.

—ﬁ'om www. stetson . edu/~harisen/

to a night out with friends.
Whenever you are in the mood
for Italian, head straight to II
Palazzo for a delectable and
affordable meal.

 a/I//aﬂoat?
a//M a//6/'5/ﬁg 5%///if

BY ERICA PROSSER
PHI STAFF WRITER

and Thursday Richardson’s “Hamlet”

plied when asked his opinion of the end. He added that he does
not like other Shakespearean plays, especially “Hamlet.”

Not everyone agrees with his assessment of“Romeo and Juliet.”
Sophomore Cory Mettee names it her favorite Shakespearean play,
crediting her appreciation of it to an inspirational teacher. It was
the ﬁrst one she saw when she was old enough to understand it.

'1

continue to enchant audiences and directors. Shakespeare’s works
contain elements and stories appealing to everyone. Tragic lovers,
tormented heroes and mocking friends share pages with humorous
fools, ridiculous servants and cheerful acquaintances.

There is a universality in Shakespeare’s writings. We share his
characters’ love and hate, their fears and joys. We wonder at their
gullibility, and admire their cunning. Who does not laugh when
Benedick taunts Beatrice with "What, my dear Lady Disdain! Are
you yet living?” Who does not secretly hope that,just this once,
Othello vinll not kill Desdemona, that Juliet will wake up before
Romeo swallows the poison‘? We roll their insults around in our

BY SARAH MELDRUM
PHI STAFF WRITER

Film series in Northen Auditorium

renews analytical interests

mouths, wondering how people would react if we used one. We
recite his poetry and phrases ofhis soliloquies.

The students return their copies of “Romeo and Juliet." They
walk out of the classroom. After weeks of Shakespeare, they tenta-
tively agree that the reading could have been worse. They look at
each other from the comers of their eyes, trying to see if anyone
will laugh at them for taking Shakespeare seriously. The conversa-
tion drifts to other topics. to an upcoming exam, the score of last
night‘s ball game. Suddenly, one student turns to another. grinning
impishly. “Why. yes, I do bite my tongue at you!“

The Writing Center and the Career Development
and Placement Office will be sponsoring a joint ac-
tivity on Thursday at 3:30 p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge
of the University Center.

The program is titled “What Employers Want in
W&L Student Writing Ability.” Although this is not
the first event sponsored by the Writing Center, it is
the first time the CDPO has been invited to make a
presentation about writing skills and the job market,
a spokesperson for the ofﬁce said.

Director of the Writing Center Cary Smout got
the idea for this program from a writing tutor, the
spokesperson said. Smout then contacted Direc-
tor of Career Development and Placement Beverly
Lorig to set up the joint participation. The goal
was a presentation about writing resumes, cover
letters, presentations and samples for both the job
search and within jobs. The program also planned
to involve faculty.

The Career Development staff thought it a good
idea to share knowledge that incorporated writing with
employment. The presentation will feature Cheairs
Porter ’94 and members of the Career Development
staff. The Writing Center sponsors programs once
each term during the school year, and all students are
encouraged to attend and discover what an employer
wants in writing.

:5
MAY 12, 1997

Get the student loan that
glves you What you want.

5;/'57‘

FROM OITIBANK

What you need
to get what you want.“

Call (888) CITL911, and ask for Operator 7107,
www.citibank.com/student, or Visit your FAA ofﬁce.

  
  

0‘   torial

PAGE 5 MAY 12. 1997

 

Rich man poor man

For some Washington and Lee students, free beer isn’t

nice, it’s a necessity.
‘i Several students we interviewed for our ﬁnancial aid story
this week were ashamed to give their names. Why? Is there
a social stigma attached to being poor at this school? What if
vou don’t drive a sport-utility vehicle, do not send your
Discover card bill to daddy or cannot afford to join a fraternity
or sorority?

Do you feel you’re looked down upon by your peers? No

’ ope doubts that it is hard to be at this school when you do not
have money. Yet more than one-third of the students here
receive some sort of financial aid. Students compensate by
working at local restaurants and stores, as well as work study
and other jobs on campus.

Yet no matter how many hours these students work, they
can’t achieve the material status quo here. That’s right, for
t ose of you who have not noticed, this is a school not only
0 brand name hard liquor, but clothes, cars, backpacks and
vacations. Beer is the one exception--everyone loves Natural
Light and Icehouse.

‘ So here’s the deal: stop trying. Show up on the hill in shoes
ftom Wal-Mart, carry your books in those plastic Harris
Teeter shopping bags that multiply under your sink, and buy
that PC Cola from Harris Teeter. It’s cheap.

‘(Four years at W&L are hard enough without worrying
about how much money your family has. Stop carrying this
chip on your shoulder. Do not max out your credit cards in an
attempt to keep up with your roommate. You will have
eiiough to deal with when those student loan payments start.
Being in debt is not a desirable trait to have. Take it from the
Phi ; we are in ﬁnancial trouble, and getting out of it has been
hard, very hard.

There are so many things that are more important than
money. The education we receive here is second to none. No
matter if you are rich or poor, we all receive the same
a ‘ cation. Besides, between all the hours spent on home-

ork and partying, who has time to notice that your backpack
's not Nortlrface or your khakis are not J. Crew? Still, if
tudents do check the insides of your shoe for its brand, you

n be assured they have no life.

Besides, being poor never stopped anyone from getting a

. I ree beer.

“Quote of the Week

«“I almost squealed with
delight and imploded
Jon the spot.”

A '1' - anonymous sophomore

3 . Q
i @112 ilitng-him iﬂlrt
Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
_'Y Managing Editor Hillary Coombs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Kathryn Mayumlk
‘ Tom Wadlow
Features Editor Tarah Grant
1 Opinion Editor David Balsley
a Copy Editor Cliff Woolley
Photo Editor Holllster Hovey
Business Manager Rebecca Cuny
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Y Advertising Editor Douglas Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University. Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily

from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington
and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
The Ring-turn Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi ofiice. room 208
9f the University Center, by noon on Saturday to appear in that
week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit
sunrbissions for content and length. Letters, columns. and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum
fhi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of hbel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Oﬂice Box 899
4 Lexington. Virginia 24450
' Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

 
   

Where are all the fringe groups com-
ing from?

The right-wing of our population has re-
centlybeen overactive. Every month, itseems,
one of these groups causes trouble in our

From the Right

Jason Zacher
Phi Executive Editor

country. Most recently it was a splinter group
called the Republic of Texas, an organization
which is l0,000 strong. They called on short-
wave radio for help from other countries,
claimingtheirsovereigrrty wasbeingattacked.
Clearly they were being threatened by an
oppressive foreign power.

The RepublicotT exasaside,fringe groups
are becomingmuch more prevalent in society.

USA Today claims that this is merely due to a
spike in activity. Most of these groups seemed
to appear immediately following Timothy
McVeigh’s arrest. Since then, the public has
discovered that militia groupsexist allovcr the
country.

Are these groups really multiplying?
Maybe. There have been anti-tax, anti—gov-
emment groups since the early days of our
country. The Shay’s and Whiskey rebellions
of the 1780s and W905 were the ﬁrst. How-
ever, in today’s high-tech atmosphere, the
lntemet is becoming the perfect vehicle for
ﬁinge groups to spread their messages.

bookatthe“relatedpages”totheHeaven’s
Gatecult sometime. ltmay surpriseyoutoﬁnd
how many govcmment conspiracy theories
there are out there. Various websites cover a
widerangeoftheoricsfrompageswhichwarn
us that the government maintainscontact with
threedifferentalicncivilizations,tothosewhich

tell usthat the government is afterourgunsand
that we should defend ourselves, to the pages
of every hate—group. They run from the “God
hates fags” page to the Christian Coalition
(these pages are not related, I swear).

The beauty of the First Amendment is that
it allows any of these crazy people to publish
their ideas. Since no publishing house would
consider them, the lntemet is the best place for
these organizations to recruit members. It
gives them the ability to publish world—wide
for free. Of course, where the lntemet fails,
there is always the trusty gun show.

The lntemet offers the best of both worlds:
itallowsanyoneto viewthese groups’ material
while maintaining their seclusion.

Do these groups give Republicans a bad
name? Certainly. It seems to many that every
conservative thinksthat, “A rocket launcher in
every home,” “Cut taxes to kill the poor,” and
“Govemment is the work of the Devil,” are

Promote your fringe group through the Net it

standard Republican rallying cries. They are
not. Weare Republicans, not Libertarians. But
as is the case with any group, the voice of the
minority dictates the perceived public opinion
of the group.

The Christian Coalition, the NRA, and the
militias give the average Republican a bad
name, much the same way the ACLU and the
Kennedy’s give Democrats a bad name.

Why do we listen to them? Because they
have interesting things to say. The moderates
of both parties, in whom most of the people in
this country believe, aren’t interesting, but the
radicals are.

The loudest people in politics are usually
the people who are wrong. Unfortunately,
they are also the hardest to ignore. The next
time these groups raise their heads to shout,
remember that they are not Republicans or
Democrats, but a fringe of crazy groups who
have always been and will always be with us.

‘Liberal trend’
threatens no one

It’s spring term, I only have one
class and the weather is too damed
cold tocontemplateatripto Goshen.
Sufﬁce it to say, I have a lot of time
on my hands. Since l’masenior, this
extra time has made me feel rather
philosophical aboutwashington and
Lee and the things I’ve seen and

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

heard here over the past four years.
That’s why I’m going to attempt to
take on (ampus politics in this ambi-
tious little column.

If you read most of the letters to
the editor in either the Phi or The
Trident or pick up a copy of The
Spectator (which I like to think of as
“The Oﬂicial Magazine of Evil”),
you will ﬁnd afear of change in any
form. Change is always depicted as
evidenceofahidden agendato trans-
fonn W&L into a politically correct
nightmare that will make Intema-
tional Correspondenceschools look
like the ultimate in higher education

by comparison. The mostcompact.

response which I can think of for
those charges is: Yeah, right.

I cannot fathom how anyone
could say that W&L is becoming
liberal. Are those people at the same

school I am? This is a place where
recyclingiscontroversial,OllieNorth
stickers dot cveryone’s cars and a
William F. Buckley speech ﬁlls up
fasterthan a history class on registra-
tion day. Do you honestly think that
the overwhelmingly conservative
nature of the student body will col-
lapse if a few classes on women’s
studies are offered?

As for political correctness, it’s a
non-i$ue. P.C. went out of style
around the same time as Guess?
sweatshirts. Jokes about how silly it
is to call someone vertically chal-
lenged are about as fresh as top ten
lists. Anyonewho looksat the reality
of our situation here will know that
conservatives have nothing to fear.

I have also heard a lot on campus
about how various changes, such as
the hiringof Michelle Richardson as
our “dean of fun,” the formation of
the Friday’s! Committee and the
plans to build a student center, are
secretly designed to undermine the
fraternity system. If that’s true, then
the fratemity system must be a lot
weaker than I think. If activities like
acoustic bands in the Pit and poetry
readings which Richardson and the
Friday’s! Committee offer are seri-
ousoompetitionsforyourfratemity’s
band party, then here’s a tip: your
party must suck. As for the student
center, fromwhatI’veheard, itmight

  

/e 6‘
‘ "7 x Hi just
~ 00 back to
‘A9? hry room with
l my friend
Jack here.
I was a history major.
Find me ajob.

ETIZEB

/‘f i j\\’. I ll
/ V '-‘
No I won't hook up with you.

C'mon——no attachments. My Dad bgljght

Buy me that J. Crew shirt I want. me 3 new BMW

’ and l crashed it. 3
He bought me a

E095 I0 Dad 3")’“’a)’! 1') new one. but some-

J body stole it. 1
Then he got me a
new one. but I 1.
don't like the color.

{am on

If the “Friends” were W&L grads f #3:‘ _” ')
E  z )

 

It's a deal. The Visa bill

Let's go back to my room.

 

I feel far.
I'm going to go
binge and purge again.

ill/‘hi

~.\ ' “.- /

offer a game room, places to eat, a
conveniencestoreandaplacetopick
upyourmail—thing.slikethat. Guess
what? You can use the student
center and still be in a fratemity! Do
you think afreshman is going to say,
“I would go through Rush, but why
be in a fraternity when I can play
Ping-Pong at the student centerl”?
W&L’slegionsofconservatives
are deathly afraid of G&L, the cam-
pusgay,lesbianandbisexualorgani-
zation. Let mebeginbycalmingone
apparent fear: I’ve talked to a num-
ber of gay students at W&L and
none of them have expressed any
desire to tape a conservative colum-
nist,so relax. Anotherconcem isthat
G&L will lead the student body
down a slippery slope which will
culminate in a quota for gay dorm
counselors and so forth. Since the
oonscrvativcshavesucceededinCre-
atingsuchahostileenvironmentthat
most gay and lesbian students at

W&L remain closeted, I don’t sus-I
pect that will be an issue any time
soon. We yet to see any other
campus groupenjoyaquotasystem;
I doubt that gay students will either.
Forthose who say the Bible tells you
homosexuality is wrong, I expect to
see you in church every Sunday,
keeping the Sabbath and not having
sex until you’re married.

_ Ourpreciouscommodity ofstu—
dentautonomyisbecominglessand
less meaningful. If our status quo is
threatened, if anyone thinks that ﬁa-
ternities may be in danger or that it
will be more difﬁcult to drink if
you’re under 21, we cry that our
autonomy is under attack. The fact
of the matter is W&Lstudents have
a tremendous amount of power.
Studentshaveoompletecontrolover '
the Honor System. Students have
the power to allocate funding to
student organizations. Both news-
papers place full editorial control in

the hands of students.

Although we are endowed with I

a great deal of power, we shirk the
responsibility that comes with our
autonomy. The forum on the Cam-
pus Security Act should have been
packed: did you bother to go? How
much has the average autonomy
lovingstudent leamedabout the Stu-
dent Judicial Committee? A group
of students recently took the initia-
tive to write to The Trident about
their concerns about the Honor Sys-
tem. But the letter wasunsigrred and
ﬁlled with vague fears, so it did little
to raise any debate on campus. Un-
less we take the initiative to use our
autonomy and to govern ourselves,
cgies f0[‘2§>’StU£J' -_ t,ka_utonomy will
rgrr§r0rant_‘to“li  , orizthan whining.
« ~- In ahnutshéll, W&L’s powerful
conservative traditional status quo is
far from being threatened, unless
you count stagnation and closed-
mindedness as traditiors.

Enlivening W&L’s boring old course guide

While registering for classes last week, I came upon a
shocking revelation: this school sucks. Interesting courses
are as few and far between as good jokes in Lietterrnarfs
monologue. So, Icame upwithafew suggestions forcourses
which may spice up the ol’ catalogue a bit:

English I25 — Shopping lists of the Beat Generation.

My View

Kevin McManemin ’00

This course examines one of the least appreciated genres of
literature ——the shopping list — by focusing on the works of
the Beat poets. Selections include Kerouac’s “Milk, a dozen
eggs, spaghetti and pasta sauce” and Ginsberg’s epic “Bread,
cheese, brussel sprouts, Kool Aid and LSD.”

Greek l0l — Fraternity life. Learn the Greek origins of

the Colonnade club

the fratemity system by reading the works of Drinkus,
Beerbongates, Alcoholius and Pukamides.
History 123 — The Civil War as we see it. This course
examines the Civil War as the South likes to imagine it
happened. Leamabout Lee’svictory at Gettysburg,Jackson’s
March to the Sea through New Jersey and other fabricated
facts. Note: Not for dadgum carpetbagging Yankees.
History 269—Presidentialsexscandals:Jacksonthrough
Wilson. The second part of thenaughty presidents survey.
Learn about Grover Cleveland’s luv shack by the Potomac,
Chester A. Arthur’s vast collections of women’s undergar-
ments and what Lincoln really used the Lincoln bedroom for.
Journalism 000 — The ﬁlms of Pauly Shore. A critical
look at how Shore combines plot, theme and dialogue to
create a wholly nauseating cinematic experience. Barfbags
will be provided for all screenings. Note: Students cannot
receive credits for both Journalism 000 and 00] (The Films

of David Spade and Chris Farley).

Music 666 — The Dave Matthews Band. Students

noise-making devices

Matthews’ voice.

line. Required for all

just getting too silly.

is wrong with Dennis

spend the tem banging away on various instruments and

as they try to determine if it is

possible to create a sound more irritating than Dave

Philosophy 475 — Philosophy of the unemployment

majors. Students discuss tough

questions such as, “What the hell am I going to do with
a degree in philosophy?”
Politics 042—— Ethics in politics. I’m sorry, now I’m

Psychology 456,355,3l8.3 —— Psychology of Dennis
Rodman. Students attempt to discover just what the hell

Rodman. Topics of discussion

may include hair, wardrobe, tattoos, piercings and the
fact that he has his own MTV show.

  
  
       

   

Jo 0ﬂM¥-wiilaﬁmrrrnii
M7l’—TiF!éV'. ﬁg-gyg
W 0“? aw Mel

I . lhte ’fitrr~IL
I Wrv END-~ ﬂl

“No, we don ’t date skinheads. "
—Joe Hawkins, ’00

“No. Iwon 't let them.’ "
—Charles Stephen Faulkner IV.
VMI '00

 

“Hell yeah. I‘d never miss an
opportunity to dance. "
—t'(e1ly Dyer, '98

 

Given VMl’s shift to co-education, would Washington and Lee
men attend VMI sock hops? After all, VMI guys are occasion-
ally invited to Washington and Lee functions.

 

“Sure. It sounds likefun. I'd go.
Too bad I won ‘t be here next

year. "

—.Iirrrir1y'.§chweer. '07

 

“Why not? VMI Kcydets have
been crashing W&L frat parties
for over I00 years. "
~Hampden H. Smith III,
Profeswr of.lonrnali5m

l-I4.

 

 

MAY 12, 1997

RESULTS

Women’s
Tennis (15-5)

Placed fourth at NCAA champi-
onships. Defeated Pomona—Pitzer
8-1 in the ﬁrst round and
Gustavus Adolphus 6-3 in the
quarterﬁnals.

Lost to Kenyon College 6-3 in the
semiﬁnals, and Emory University
5-4 in the third place match.

Men’ s

Tennis (12-7)

Lost to third seed Salisbury State
6-1 in the quarterﬁnals of the

NCAA South Regional at Emory
University.

AHEAD

NCAA National
Championships,
at Washington
and Lee, May
16-21.

Men’s Tennis:

Women’s tennis finishes fourth at NCAA’s

BY JASON ZACHER
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The women’s tennis team ﬁnished
in the top four for the third straight
year last weekend at the NCAA Divi-
sion III tennis
championships.
Junior Natalia
Garcia received
two individual
awards, and the
team received
Academic All-
American hon- .
ors. Garcia

The Generals beat Pomona-Pitzer
and Gustavus Adolphus in the ﬁrst
two rounds, but then fell to top seed
Kenyon College and third seed Emory
University in two hard-fought
matches. Their ﬁnal record is 17-5.

“We played our hearts out,” said
coach Cinda Rankin. “They simply
had better athletes than we did.”

 

SPORTS

MEN’s AND W0MEN’s TENNIS

Garcia was honored at a banquet
Friday night by receiving the Arthur
Ashe Sportsman of the Year award.
“I was not expecting it at all,” said
Garcia, “I wasjust surprised to see my
name on the list.”

“It is such a big award for
Natalia,” commented Rankin, “It’s
amazing how many people came up
to me and told me what a wonderful
person she is.”

Garcia was also named to the Aca-
demic All-American team. The team
as a whole received Academic All-
American status with over a 3.2 GPA.

W&L cruised in the ﬁrst round,
beating Pomona 8-1. Garcia dropped
Claire Turchi, a previous singles na-
tional champion, in three sets 6-4, 5-
7, 7-5. “I knew I had to play her, and
I knew I had nothing to lose,” said
Garcia. “Not being nervous helped
me a lot.”

The Generals swept the remaining
singles matches against Pomona, and

only dropped the second flight
doubles match.

In the quarterﬁnals, the Generals
beat Gustavus Adolphus 6-3. The top
three ﬂights for the Generals, Garcia,
juniors Berry Blankinship and Ericka
Shapard, and the sixth ﬂight player
freshman Erin Eggers picked up
singles wins. The doubles teams of
Garcia and freshman Brook Hartzell,
as well as Blankinship and Shapard
won for the Generals.

The demanding schedule of the
championships hurt the Generals in
the semi-ﬁnals. W&L lost to Kenyon
for the second time this year 6-3.

“It was extremely hot on Tuesday.
All the teams were tired,” said Rankin.
“Their bye kicked in. It really makes
a difference.”

Nevertheless, Garcia picked up her
third win of the championships over
Caryn Cuthbert of Kenyon 6-0, 6-1.
Only Eggers picked up another singles
win for the Generals. Blankinship and

Shapard won their doubles match.
The loss placed W&L against num-
ber three seed Emory University in the
third place match. Kenyon went on
to win the national championship

“For W&L and Emory it was a
very important match,” said Rankin.
“We wanted to see who the best team
in the south region was.”

Emory’s own bye kicked in, but the
Generals were barely knocked off 5-
4. Garcia. Shapard and Eggers won
in singles, and Blankinship and
Shapard won their doubles match.
The match came down to
Blankinship’s singles match.

“Everyone else had ﬁnished, and
she was still playing the second set,”
said Rankin, “she just kept plugging
away at it.” Her opponent, Katie
Kirchbaum, won the ﬁrst set 6-3.

Blankinship struggled back to take
the second set to pick up a 6-4 vic-
tory. Kirchbaum proved to be too
much, taking the third set 6-2.

‘I’

PAGE 6 V

Shapard entered the individlral
singles tournament, and picked up a
huge ﬁrst round win over third seed
Keri Mills from Carnegie—Mellon
University 6-3, 6- 1. “It was an incred-
ible win. She completely controllgji
the game,” said Rankin. Shapard was
lost the ﬁrst game, but went on to win
12 ofthe next 15. Shapard lost in the
second round to Inke Noel from
Skidmore College. 1‘-

Garcia and Hartzell received a bid
for the doubles tournament, but ex-
ited early, losing to the team from
Hope College 7-6, 5-7, 1-6. Garci_z$s

appeal with her opponents was exern— -

pliﬁed in the doubles match. Some
of the players from Kenyon sat behind
Garcia and Hartzell to cheer for them.
“It was really nice to see,” satidi
Rankin, “they have so much respect
for her.”

“We are satisﬁed with what we
did,” said Garcia. The Generals now
set their sights on returning next year.

‘Coaching carousel’ overshadows NBA playoffs il

 
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
 

The Phi
Onlinel

ln‘ip://
www.wlu.edu/
-pm

THE BIG FAN

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER

You might think the NBA playoff teams
are the ones making the most headlines. Maybe
not, because the coaching carousel for the non-
playoff teams is already in full swing.

While the playoff teams are slogging
through the second round, teams like the
Celtics, Sixers and Pacers are hoping to get
back there someday by hiring big-name
coaches. Kentucky coach Rick Pitino, who was
also wooed by the Philadelphia 76ers, left to
coach the Boston Celtics. Celtic legend Larry
Bird accepted the coaching job for the Indi-
ana Pacers. Ex-Pacers coach Larry Brown took
control of the 76ers.

The good news about Pitino’s hiring is that
we ﬁnally get to stop hearing the annual Pitino-
to-the-NBA rumors. He almost took a job with
the Nets last year after they promised him con-

trol of everything at the Meadowlands except
for Jimmy Hoffa’s body. This year he was ﬁ-
nally offered a job that was too good to resist-
a $70 million contract to coach basketball’s
most storied franchise.

Pitino (who, incidentally, resembles John
Cusack of “Grosse Pointe Blank”) is coming
home in a sense. He started his coaching ca-
reer at Boston University and moved onto
Providence, where he led the Friars to the 1987
Final Four. He did dip into the NBA for a short
stay with the New York Knicks but soon left
to coach a Kentucky team that was coming
off of probation. The rest is history.

Everywhere Pitino goes, he wins. There is
no doubt he will do the same in Boston, but
how fast? This is a city already fed up with the
Red Sox and Bruins’ mediocrity and probably

. won’t have the patience for any ﬁve-year plans.

A And it might take that long. Pitino does
inherit one of his old Kentucky stooges in
Antoine Walker, but has little else of value.

Getting Tim Duncan would help, but then
again any lottery player would help. Pitino,
though, is known for his ability to maximize

Italent. He probably did his best coaching job
last season when he led an injury-riddled Ken-
tucky team to the NCAA title game.

The irony of Bird’s hiring in Indiana is that
the Celtics were considering naming him as
coach until Pitino’s name surfaced. Even af-
ter they hired Pitino, Rick tried to keep Bird as
general manager. But Larry knew that his
power would be diminished with Pitino call-
ing most of the shots. So he returned to his
home state, where he is more popular than even
Damon Bailey, to coach that other Indiana
team, the Pacers.

Bird will win faster than Pitino simply be-
cause he has more to work with. Indiana was
inconsistent and underachieving last season
and Bird will have to reteach thejump shot to
Reggie Miller before the Pacers can return to
the playoffs.

Larry Brown should qualify for frequent-
ﬂyer status as many places as has been. Brown
once coached the Clippers, but judging by the
current condition of the Sixers, they could be j
even more challenging. The Sixers have plenty '
of potential when they’re not shooting them-
selves in the foot and could rise quickly under
a disciplinarian like Brown. Discipline is what»
the Sixers need most since Derrick Coleman"
shows up for practices when he feels like it,
Allen Iverson and Jerry Stackhouse ﬁght each
other (literally) for shots, and Scott Williams
is the starting center. 7

In fact, the Sixers haven’t had a real center
since Moses Malone left. Brown’s job is ac-
tually quite simple. Trade Coleman for a
couple cheese steaks, turn Iverson into a real,“
point guard, hope the team gets lucky enough
to draft Duncan and then convince the Philly
media that the team is moving in the right di-
rection. Just another day at the ofﬁce, right,
Larry? Larry?

/

O

     
 

 

   "gar Fl/your Qressy OCC

 
 
   
   
    
       
     

 

F’ <3

     

17  969/5012 C3/red
Eexzlrzy/012, Uzkyzirzia 2445
\

/5a2)4ma;/651

- ll
0510123

-/* 0I‘l22d[S o

g  :71xe0/03 *Q7Cce50r1°e

0

 

  

For scream-free banking, open your personal checking
account with Bank of Rockbridge. When you bank with us
you get a choice of 8 different checking accounts, including
our popular student account "Campus Checking".

Your Bank of Rockbridge checking account gives you free, unlimited usage
of our 10 area ATM’s. You can also access your account while you’re at home.
Just look for the HONOR, PLUS or CIRRUS signs. They’re everywhere.

Our two Lexington offices (each with 24-hour drive-up ATM’s) are located
in places you probably go everyday. Ever go to Wendy’s, Frank’s, Kroger or
Harris-Teeter? We’re right next door - and there’s plenty of parking.

When you bank with us, you’ll be cared for by some of the friendliest people
you’ll ever meet - folks who’ll take a special interest in you and your acccount. ,
We’ve been doing this for 64 years - it’s a good bet we know what we’re doing. we)

Come open an account at Bank of Rockbridge today.

 

       

    
  
  

Méaountain
Giaayphics 

 
 
 

737

   

0

 

E. Nelson St. office
463-6690

Hwy 11, N. (Kroger
463-4115

 =._r_dw_e In  the closest and most

  

V (3rraphics=:’-Eicorner of Lee and
, _ , cro sgjfrom the*Pos't Office and just ‘*1
 fup the strejetffrom _the Palms. ’

' I 9 ith_your Bank" of Rockbridge ATM card,
on can‘ _use.7ar1y of our 10 (4 just in Lexington)
rea=f{ATM’s free of ‘charge. How do you get .y_.
3‘ one. Iftfsyours with a Bank of Rockbridge
checlcinglaccount. Open one today! '1

Bank of
l Rockbridge ~

, to the W&L campus is one of
find itzrightin the front door of

 

Member FDIC

git ‘

1 .
l

  

