 

J‘;

x

J

 

U112 ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

JAMES’ '3. ’ :-
WAS H INC‘. {'1

 ‘_ L —

VOLUME  NUMBER 2

WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 10. 1996

GENERAL NOTES

Louis W. Hodges, Fletcher Otey
Thomas Professor of Bible at Wash-
ington and Lee University and di-
rector of W&L’s program in applied
ethics, will present a lecture entitled
“‘India: Problems and Promises in
the Land of Shiva” on Monday, May
13, at 8 p.m. in Northern Audito-
rium.

Hodges has lectured extensively,

On Sunday, May 19, the Hon-
orable Patricia McGowan Wald
will deliver the address for com-
mencement exercises forthe Wash-
ington and Lee University of Law.
Judge Wald currently serves as
United States Circuit Judge for the
District of Columbia Circuit. She
is also a council member and first
vice president of the American Law
Institute, and a Fellow of the Ameri-
can Academy of Arts and Science.

W&L expects to award juris
doctor degrees to 121 third-year
students in the university’s 141st
graduating law class. The cer-
emony will begin at 2:30 p.m. on
the lawn in front of the bee House.

One week prior to commence-
ment, W&L’s law professors Allan
Ides and Ann Massie will appear
on WVPT’s “Blue Ridge Journal”
where they will comment on the

DEVELOPMENTAL

Thursday, May 16, at 7:30pm
the lecture, “Enhancing Children ’s
Intelligence: A Biosocial Ecologi-
cal Perspective,” will be given by
Craig and Sharon Ramsey in
Northen Auditorium.The lecture
is open to anyone and is antici-
pated to be of special interest to
students concerned with child de-
velopment issues.

A second lecture takes place
Friday, May 17, noon entitled,”
The Impact of Headstart and the
Future of Human Sciences.” This

Thursday, May 9 at 8 p.m. in
Johnson Theater, Madeleine
Shapiro will perform “Voices”, a
mulnti-media event highlighting a
mixture of recent cello works in-
troduced by the composers. The
concert features the works and
voices of many people and closes
with Yannay and Marie Mellott’s
collaborativepiececoncemingvio—
lence against women, I Can’t
Fathom It, for cello and slide-
projection.

Professor Miller of the W&L
English department will be giving
a reading from her works next
week. Miller has a vast array of
written materials to draw from.
She has written 12 books, In the
Funny Papers (1995), and is the
author of over 100 stories, poems,
and essays published in numerous

“Fragmentation of Body in
Varlam Shalamov’s Prose” is
the topic of Ivana Vuletic’s
lecture Thursday May 9.
Vuletic is an assistant profes-

HODGES TO LECTURE ON INDIA:

both in the United States and in
India. He recently returned from a
four-month visit to India, where he
taught on the ethics of journalism at
Osmania University in Hyberabad,
India, and also lectured at fourteen
otheruniversitiesin IndiaasaFulbright
lecturer. Hodges has written exten-
sively on ethics and profe$ionalism
and lectured throughout the U.S.

MCGOWAN TO GIVE LAW ADDRESS:

VMI case. The show will air lo-
cally on Ch. 11, the PBS station, on
Friday, May 10 at 8:57 p.m.; Satur-
day, May 11 at 7:30 p.m.; and Sun-
day, May 12 at 9 a.m.

Ides and Massie teach constitu-
tional law at W&L and have fol-
lowed the VMIcaseclosely. Massie
commented that she had the oppor-
tunity to view the oral arguments at
the Supreme Court, where her ob-
servation of the judges helped her
to form predictions of what would
be important in the case and what
its outcome may entail. With re-
spect to the case, Massie stated that
there is a strong argument against
single sex education at VMI, com-
menting that it will probably be
more difficult to provide a solution
for the equality crisis than it will be
to decide the case itself. Ides was
unavailable for comment.

PSYCH LECTURES:

second lecture will be held in the
Alumni House.

The two guest lectureers are both
professors at the University of Ala-
bama at Birmingham. They are both
on the editorial boards of numerous
professional publications and main-
tainpositionson manycomrnitteesand
boards. The Rarnseys are also found-
ing directors of the Civitan lntema-
tional Research Center in Alabama.
Their visit to Washington and Lee is
made possible by the economic and

psycology departments.

FINAL SONOKLECT COfN,CERT’:”  

Shapiro has been the cellist and
director of the New Music Consort
since 1975 and with the ensemble
has toured the United States, West-
ern Europe, and Russia. Specializ-
ing in the performance of Twenti-
eth Century music, Shapiro has been
a part of numerous premier perfor-
mances of a-wide range of works by
many different composers. She has
also been recorded and teaches at
the Marines College of Music where
she is an adjunct professor.

W&L PROF TO READ HER WORKS:

different places.

Miller came to Washington
and Lee in 1992 and continues
to teach courses in the area of
creative writing and American
literature.

The reading will take place
in room 21 of Payne Hall at
4:30pm on Wednesday May 15.

UNC PROF TO SPEAK AT C-SCHOOL:

sor of Slavic languages and
literature at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. The lec-
ture will take place in room 221 of
the Commerce School.

Compiled by David Balsley and Rachel Goddu

 

5 OPINION
GENERATION Llx

Check out Generation Lex, an application to write for The
Trident’s back page and Josh Hes|inga’s newest master-

piece, all on page 2.

P FEATURES

Dan Odenwald checks out a nun against the
:1 death penalty. Primal “Gere” is livin’ good
as a lawyer guy. C.E. Miller examines the

“Mother’s Day Syndrome.”

Youngtells about Nathan Sheppard, frequent _
x. frat band, releasing their second album and
playing at Sigma Nu tonight..

s sponrs

  

And Cindie .

page 3

Women’s tennis is one step from the national
title. Men’s lax wins their eighth straight Lee-
, Jackson Classic. The baseball team is elimi-
nated from ODACs. Men’s tennis heads to
regionals today. page 6

 
   

Storm crashes alumni party

BY DAVE BALSLEY
PHI STAFF WRITER

he tent housing last Saturday’s

concert for the Class of ’71

fell victim to the strong gusts
of wind accompanying a summer
stonn. The tent partially collapsed
when spikes anchoring one of its sides
were torn from the ground.

On Saturday, May 4, W&L’s Class
of ’71 planned to celebrate their re-
union by enjoying dinner and a con-
cert on the baseball ﬁelds. The Coast-
ers, the Drifters, and the Marvellettes
were scheduled to appear, and a large
tent, suitable to the size of the affair,
had been erected to house the dinner
and concert.

The other returning classes were

, invited to attend as well, and Robert

W.H. Mish, Associate Director of
Alumni Programs, noted that both stu-
dents and residents of Lexington ar-
rived at the field in the hopes of attend-
ing the concert.

After the alumni dinner, the Coast-
ers took the stage. Shortly thereafter,
“a huge gust of wind came and started
rocking the tent,” Mish stated. “Huge
sixty foot poles in the middle were
swaying.” The strong winds tore the
stakes which supported one side of the
tent from the ground, causing the tent
to partially collapse.

Mike Young, Director of Security,
determined that it would be unsafe to
attempt to continue the concert on the
baseball fields. The celebrations were
moved to the local Howard Johnson.
The three bands who scheduled for the
evening delighted their audience by
performing a cappella renditions of
their songs at the hotel, treating every-
one to a special version of “Good

Pitching a tent

concert on May 4.

Alumni attempt to resurrect their ten at the Class of '71

Sam Levine, Phi Photo Editor

Night, Sweetheart” in which all three
groups performed together.

According to Mish, the evening’s
attendants pulled together to turn an
otherwise horrible situation into a great
time. The unusual situation plans
helped achieve a great success, bring-
ing together the alumni in a bonding
celebration.

“From our standpoint,” Mish re-
marked, “it was still successful.” This
sentiment was echoed by the alumni
who enjoyed themselves so much that
they proposed to have another party

next year, complete with the gust of
wind.

In fact, plans have already been
made to host a similar party next year.
The Coasters, the Drifters and the
Marvellettes have already agreed to
re-appear on W&L+s campus again
next year. Certain aspects of last
Saturday’s festivities will be notice-
ably absent from the planned reunion,
however. Mish commented that they
probably will not take the risk of host-
ing the event on the baseball field a
second time.

Forum examines merits of women’s studies

BY MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
PHI STAFF WRITER

the event is designed to provide information about
- Women and Gender Studies.
“The goal is to promote discussion about Gender

cross the nation, women’s and ethnic stud

ies have beem denounced by conservatives

as politically incorrect. They argue that

such majors detract from what a liberal arts educa-

tion should be ‘arid serves asa rjoliticaltoolofthe left‘

to indoctrinate students with their “agenda. It pro-
vides no room for individual thought, they say.

Today, students and faculty will have a chance to

debate the merits of such study during a panel

entitled Gender & Women’s Studies Panel. The

panel will meet from 9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Northen

Auditorium of the Leybum Library. Women’s Fo-

rum is sponsoring the event.

Sakina Paige, the coordinator for the event, said

. and Women Studies and see how faculty and stu-

dents feel.”

Paige also sent out a survey to nearly all faculty
members during the ﬁnal exam week Winter Term.
At the beginning of this term, she sent surveys to
about 25 percent of the student body. '

Responses are still coming in so Paige said she
cannot make any conclusions yet. But one thing that
did strike her were some of the answers.

“Answers such as ‘don’t know’ or ‘want more
information’ is exactly why we’re having the panel.”

The panel consists of students and faculty from
Washington and Lee University and other schools.
Heather Schweninger, a junior Evironmental Stud-
ies and Geochemistry major, and Betsy Blunt, a

senior Business Administration and East Asian
major, are the students from W&L. Professor of
English Edwin Craun, the head of the English and
Medieval Studies Departments. and Associate Pro-

fessor of Psychology Tyler Lorig round out the

panelists from W&L.
Other panelists include Elisabeth Gruner, Assis-
tant Professor of English and coordinator of
5 Women’s Studies at the*University of Richmond;
Elizabeth Mills, Associate Professor of English and
coordinator of Gender Studies concentration at
Davidson College in North Carolina; Meagan Koch,
Doctoral candidate at the Center of Higher Educa-
tion and minoring inWomen’s Studies at the Uni-
versity of Virginia and and a 1991 W&L graduate;
and Stephanie Jo Hudgins, a senior psychology
major who is minoring in Race, Class and Gender at
Radford University.

W&L Dance anticipates first performance

BY ROBIN SI~:AToN
PHI STAFF WRITER

ashington and Lee’s new
dance troupe, W&L
Dance, will hold its first

performance on Sunday, May 12th at
8 p.m., in the I..enfest Center’sJohnson
Theatre. The program, which includes
a wide variety of pieces, from classi-
cal ballet to funky jazz, is the culmina-
tion of a year’s work for the dancers.
This free performance is open to the
public.

Missy Smithgall of Glasgow cho-
reographed three ballet pieces for the
performance. One of her original
pieces, entitled “Ave Maria,” will fea-
ture graduating senior Margaret Fitts.
Set to the music of Johann Sebastian
Bach, the piece will be part of Fitts’
final performance in the Lexington
area.

Fitts began dance instruction at age
three and has taken ballet classes in
the area throughout her W&L career.
She also assisted Smith gall by helping
to organize the ballet ensemble’s re-
hearsals and leading some sessions.
Of the newly-organized dance pro-
gram on campus, Fitts says, “W&L
needs this,” and she encourages those
involved in theatre and other areas of

the performing arts on campus to take

advantage of the opportunity.
Smithgall also adapated choreog-
raphy from Petipa, added to her own,
to create “Minkus Variations.” In
addition to Smithgall and Fitts, the
pointe variations feature freshmen
Leah Hall and Sarah Moore, sopho-
more Robin Seaton, and guest dancer
Natalie Biggs, a Rockbridge County
High School Senior. Hall, Moore,
Seaton, and Biggs all began dance
training in early childhood, at the
ages of three or four, and have studied

ballet for many years.

Hall is enthusiastic about this opportu-
nity to dance for the W&L community.
She believes that “every liberal arts col-
lege needs a dance program,” especially

oneaswell-known and'respectedasWash-

ington and Lee. Moore meanwhile hopes

that “one day theater majors can take
dance” at W&L, and she would like tosee
various types of dance offered for physi- _

On their toes

Lenfest Center.

Margaret Fitts, Leah Hall and Sarah Moore prepare for their May 14 performance in the

 

Photo by J.B.Redenbaugh

cal education credit.

The finale in Sunday’s program
will be a 17-minute ballet entitled
“Rhapsody in Blue.” Choreography
is also by Smithgall, and the music of
the same name isby George Gershwin.
The piece will feature all members of
the ballet ensemble.

Smithgall teaches classical ballet
technique and pointe both for the W&L
ballet ensemble and within the com-
munity. Beginning her ballet instruc-
tion in Pennsylvania at age three,
Smithgall started intensive training at
the age of six at schools including the
School of the Joffrey Ballet and the
School of the Pennsylvania Ballet.

She began performing at an early
age with such groups as the Bux-Mont
Dance Theatre, the Dance Theatre of

Pennsylvania, Dance Del Bello and
Dance Elite. Smithgall’s past instruc-
tors include Victor Moreno, Gloria
Govrin, Michael Loupasanski, Lupe
Serrano, and Cherie Noble.

Upon moving to Rockbridge
County in early 1991, Smithgall be-.
gan teaching and performing with the
Rockbridge Ballet. Her past perfor-
mances include principals roles in most
of the major classical ballets and fea-
ture roles in original ballets.

Washington and Lee students
Cheryl Puzon, Kathy Dussé, and Chris-
tine Bragg also choreographed jazz
and lyrical pieces for the program.
Puzon, a sophomore, created two
pieces, “Funk-O-MegaMix” and “Kiss
From a Rose.” Puzon has two years of
jazz training, and she also participated

in her high school dance team for three
years.

“Total Eclipse of the Heart” will be
a solo number featuring sophomore
choreographer Kathy Dussé. Dussé’s
background includes nine yearsof bal-
let and jazz instruction.

Freshman Christine Bragg also cho-
reographed a piece for the perfor-
mance. Bragg, a sixteen-year student
of ballet and jazz, will perform “Ubiq-
uitous Mr. Love Grove” during the
Sunday evening exhibition.

Sophomore Dana Hood and fresh-
man Heather Bradley are also mem-
bers of the jazz ensemble and will
dance Sunday night.

Those interested in Sunday’s per-
formance or classes may contact
Smithgall at 540-258-1516.

 

 

 

 

> PAGE 2

Letters to the Editor

Midshipmen
ashamed

Paul Saboe’s “Absolut Tradition,”
editorial in the 3 May Ring-tum Phi
prompts me to comment since it in-
volves my alma matter, the U.S. Naval
Academy, and Washington and Lee
University, where I have had the privi-
lege to serve since 1976.

During the period of June 4-5, I
will return to Annapolis for my 50th
reunion with great pride. But like
many graduates of the Naval Acad-
emy, I am deeply concerned and most
disturbed with the recent turn of events
that go to the very heart of the institu-
tion. The reasons therefore must be
corrected. If not, the Academy will
have betrayed the many graduates who
have made the U.S. Navy and Marine
Corps the ﬁnest of ﬁghting forces, and
it will cease to exist as an institution
worthy of the trust it has so long en-
joyed.

I will not take issue with the com-
ments concerning Professor James
Barry nor the “bilging” of classmates
because they are beyond the scope of

“there have ap-

peared chinks

in the systems
armor.”

this commentary. But I will take issue
with the comments that the vital sense
of honor no longer exists at the Acad-
emy. In support, Ioffer, from personal
contact, the expressions of utter dis-
gust on part of the vast majority of
midshipmen for the violations of rules
and regulations of the Academy plus
the breaking of state and federal laws
by the few.

What are the causes of the break-
down in the system? It is my opinion
that the Naval Academy does not op-
erate under the strict discipline of ear-
lier years. Too many offences that
were cause for immediate dismissal
receive the Nelson’s blind eye treat-
ment and the guiltymay “get away
with it” in this litigious society. The
Naval Academy cannot be like civil-
ian universities because its mission is
to prepare the graduates for participa-
tion in combat should the need arise.
There is no other reason for the exist-
ence of the service academies. In
preparing the prospective officers,

i honor and truth have to be inviolate
, because they are the most important
5 aspects of military and human en-
 deavor, failure to know the truth can
I lead to disasters of immense propor-
1 tion.

Closer to home - the honor system

 of Washington and Lee. It is one of the
 major selling points of the school. In

recent years there have appeared
chinks in the system’s armor. Let me
cite an incident that occurred several
years ago when a W&Lstudent struck
and killed a fellow student with his
automobile. He kept silent for almost
a year before his identity came to
light. Three of his fraternity brothers
knew of it but chose to remain silent.
In the trial where the student pleaded
guilty, the judge said the following to
the man after his plea: “This is a mark
against you, your associates, and the
institution where you attended. This
tragedy is a low point for an institu-
tion known for its honor and integrity.
This tragedy is complicated by the
attempts to cover up the truth.”

Unless these chinks are removed
and the new armor reburnished, the
very lifeblood of Washi ngton and Lee
will slowly ebb away. All agree this
must be avoided. But how?

Very simply, we can do General
Lee no greater honor than to live by
his code that extends to all parts of our
lives and not just those restricted to
campus classrooms. Be mindful of
the fact that the keystone of honor is
obedience to lawful authority. Also
be mindful of another of Marse
Robert’s tenets. For every right there
is a duty. To be true to this patron
saint, I think it important to ask one-
self before taking any action in any
instance if it will bring honor to you,
your family, the University and the
United States of America. If the an-
swer is in the negative, halt, rethink
and only press on if the green afﬁrma-
tive light says go.

We are privileged to be part of an
institution with a great tradition. Make
the most of it for without the Honor
System Washington and Lee is just
another small southern college. It
need not happen and pray that it does
not. The matter is in your hands.

- Robert C Peniston
Captain, U.S. Navy (Ret.)
Director, Lee Chapel

Trident exercised
poor judgement

ing from the "Letters" page of The
Trident never ceases to amaze me.
The Trident printed, apparently with-
out reservation, the letter-to-the-edi-
tor entitled "Student says that most
W&L Women are Lesbians." The
letter served no purpose and was, most
of all, completely incorrect. Even in
jest, this letter represented a pathetic
attempt at humor. One must wonder
though . . . you guys will run a letter
like this, but refused to run the G&L

‘ organization's ad? A little journalis-

tic bias, maybe?

— Jay White ‘96

Quote of the Week:

“This school is like one big sorority,
they print t-shirts for everything!”

- freshman after seeing their new class t-shirts

The Ring-Turn Phi, MAY 3, 1996 ,.

     
 

  

 
 
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 

     
 
   
 
 

  
  
  
   

    

OPINION
GENERATION Lax 4
-5
, ' C AcTuALL't,wE
iiiii ’  E”§l’:A|TE .iusT N559 .u
6
soutow ‘ I'M Nor mt‘ ‘5";'£E::'j: Tb
tour: 3': - ONLY ONE M-IDS mm W;
Accouurme °° coiItEtlNEl>
goog? ABOUT csrrmﬁr ‘
AN EDHCATION
‘ ’ 11-I15 $PR|”°-

A

I.

W°l{M.WW\M ,

.5-5 , '
P
The defenders of the realm .

 

Joshua Heslinga ’98

s Republicans prepare to
tackle other ﬁscal year, one
of the areas in which

. they differ most from the Clinton ad-
Again, the absolute crap emanat- --

ministration continues to be national
defense policy. The crux of the dis-
pute lies in the belief of congressional
Republicans that America's defense
policy must undergo some policy
changes in order to prepare for the
beginning of the 21st century.
Philosophically, there can be little
doubt that defense must remain the
key policy of government.
Government’s ﬁrst duty, which the
Declaration of Independence pro-
claimed, has always been to protect
the lives of its citizens. Without life
and liberty, social welfare policy is a
luxury citizens cannot afford.
Nonetheless, that philosophical
commitment leaves many practical
questions of defense policy open to
debate, so here are three of the key
arenas where Republicans in Congress
will clash with the White House.
The ﬁrst concerns the overall lev-
els of defense spending. Democrats
have leveled charges of pork and ex-
cessive defense spending against Re-
publicans, but such charges fall apart
under careful scrutiny.
As Democratic Senator Daniel

Inouye recently wrote in an article for
Roll Call, forfiscal year 1997, defense
spending will be only 15.1% of fed-
eral spending, an 8% decrease since
1980 and half the level of 1950. By
comparison, uncontrolled social
spending on entitlements like Medi-
care and Social Security dwarfs this
level of funding, and Republicans even
drew ﬂak for suggesting that the
growth of Medicare should be reduced
to a mere 6.5%. g

The president’s budget provides
less than two-thirds of what Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff John
Shalikashvili declared must be spent
on procurement and modernization and
falls woefully short in other basic ar-
eas like housing maintenance for per-
sonnel. The Joint Chiefs’ 1996 Force
Readiness Assessment concluded sol-
emnly, “We can no longer afford to
push procurement into the outyears.”

The second area is missile defense.
A quick look at the world situation
provides ample justification for the
expansion of these programs, as well
as for maintaining vigilance by ad-
equately funding the Defense Depart-
ment.

Nuclear proliferation poses the
greatest threat of the 21st Century to
U.S. security. Russia is currently ac-
tively marketing “converted” SS-25
intercontinental ballistic missiles as
satellite launch vehicles to any nation
willing to pay the price. The CIA
veriﬁed earlier this year that China
violated U.S. law by passing nuclear
technology to Pakistan. And intelli-
gence reports that North Korea’s own
missile program may have the capa-

bility to hit the U.S. as early as 2000.

Accidental attacks remain as seri-
ous a risk as rogue attacks. Russia’s
military is demoralized and poorly
organized, thanks to massive
underfunding. Furthermore, intelli-
gence agencies admit the oft-cited
platitude that Russia's missiles are no
longer pointed at U.S. targets cannot
be veriﬁed.

This new world situation makes a
missile defense system more needed
and feasible. Congressman Curt
Weldon, the chairman of the National

“We can no
longer afford

to push pro-
curement into
the outyears. ”

Security subcommittee on research and
development, reports that the Penta-
gon has stated that a system capable of
defending the U.S. against a limited
attack could be produced in the next
several years for around $5 billion, not
the hundreds of billions that missile
defense critics routinely charge.

And in view of President Clinton’s
recent commitment to increase U.S.
aid for Israeli missile defense sys-
tems, one has to wonderwhy the Presi-
dent thinks missile defense is good
enough for Israel but not for the Ameri-
can public.

Finally our defense plans for the
future must ﬁnd a reasonable way of
limiting the costs of peacekeeping and N
other contingency operations.

President Clinton’s repeated com-
mitments to these unbudgeted opera-
tions in places of questionable na-
tional interest like Bosnia and Haiti
cost U.S. taxpayers more than $4 bil-
lion in 1995, money that comes from
other needed defense programs. At
the same time, the President’s budget )
underfunds the National Guard and

" military"reserves, despite their huge

contributions to such operations.

While isolationism is not the an-
swer, this spend first, ask questions *
later policy cannot continue. The Presi-
dent must develop a coherent foreign
policy based on national interest that
can reduce such expenditures. 5‘,

Senator Inouye recalled the detri-
mental ﬁnancial and security effects
of the hasty demobilization after World
War II that left the U.S. unprepared for
the following war in Korea. He cited a
Army General Matthew Ridgeway’s
observation after that war that, “Our
armed forces had been economized
almost to ineffectiveness."

Jubilance over the end of the Cold i
War is understandable, but we cannot
let such feelings cause us to neglect
our national defense or ignore critical
world threats to U.S. security. We A
should follow the policy of peace
through strength that kept America
safe for more than 40 years in the
face of such danger. The security
of our nation is too important to *
the U.S. to ever be caught asleep
on the watch.

ab-

dent.

and obscenity.

@112 ﬁling-mm iﬁlit

Executive Editor ............................................................... ..Anne Alvord
Managing Editor .................................................... ..Christine Gamavish
News Editor .................................................................. ..Hillary Coombs
Editorial Page Editor ........................................................ ..Jason Zacher
Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter, Bethany Bauman
Features Editor .......................................... ..C. E. Miller, Dan Odenwald
Photography Editor ............................................................. ..Sam Levine

Editorial Cartoonists .................................. ..Phil Flickinger. Tom Fallace
Business Manager ......................... ..
Assistant Business Manager .......... ..
Advertisement Composition Artist. . ..

.................................. ..Will Hershey
.............................. ..Doug Ghertner
................................... ..Tarah Grant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive
editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi otﬂce. room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters.
columns. and “My Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
PM or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Oﬂice Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4059
Fax: (540) 462-4060

amongst a stack of issues of last
week's Trident. Most intriguing.
I thought I ’d share it with you all.
—B.G.]

So, you want to write on the Back
Page! Who could blame you? It is,
without a doubt, one of the best
parts of our newspaper. Who at
W&L doesn't love to be reminded
that Friends is on every Thursday
at 8:00? And even more so, who
doesn't love to read the random
venting of a bitter student?!? That
bitter student could be you! Just
fill out this application and return it
to The Trident office.

1. Name:

2. Major:

3. Major that you think sucks:

5. Area of the country you'd like to
mock (ie: Texas):

6. Do you think it is cowardly to
print controversial ideas anony-
mously?

No __ Hell NO!
7. Please list 25 things that really
bother you, that you could vent about
in approximately three paragraphs, and
that would probably never occur to
anyone else. For example:

- the blue and white ﬂags B&G dis-
plays for special occasions

- theme nights in the d-hall

- the color of the parking stickers

— the fact that most W&L dogs are
either brown or black

- that W&L serves Pepsi instead of
Coke

- that the library does not architectur-

- the law school

- Dean Leroy "Buddy" Atkins

- the grey shirts the VMI cadets wear
don't look good with their white pants
- W&L women

- women from other schools

- faculty women

- other women

- the resemblance of Cyrus McCormick
to Robert E. Lee

- Dean Schoer-Lamont

- the frames on the portraits of Wash-
ington and Lee in Lee Chapel

- people who use perfect grammar

- bow ties

- people who wear a lot of khaki

- people who are not as cool as you are
- date functions

- the new logo on Natty Light cans

- no more Natty Light pitchers at The
Palms .
- the cost of Jack Kemp's speech

There, that's twenty-ﬁve and if you
bother to count and ﬁnd out that there
aren't exactall y twenty-ﬁve things, you

Application for back page ‘
columnist of The Trident ’

ously (a quality we are looking for in
new columnists)

8. Asaback page columnist, you will
berequiredtousethe followingwords t
or phrasesasmuchaspossible: chafe,
loser, insecure, lame, student au-
tonomy, cheese, tool, Natty Light,
and sell out. Does this pose a prob-
lem for you? i‘

9. The Trident will also require you
to write at least one column a term
on the following subjects: how the
administration sucks, how people '
act stupid at parties, how lame the
Phi is, and how people who object to
something you wrote are a bunch of
tools who take themselves way too i,
seriously. Okay?

[A special note to the ﬁne columnists
at The Trident: if this parody offends
you, gee, it's a joke. You need to take P
yourself a lot less seriously. ]

 

5 The Ring-tum Phi, MAY 10.1996

YOU'D THINK
THEY LIVE HERE

at

AL

Pi

 
 

 

PAGE 3

&life

CINDIE YOUNG
PHI STAFF WRITER

hey listen,” Nathan Sheppard Band drummer Mike

Rizzi says of W&L partygoers.

The students that have jammed to the Nathan

Sheppard Band have indeed listened, and they’ve liked
what they’ve heard.

As a result of W&L’s enthusiastic reception, the band
has played here again and again throughout the year.

“Fratemities parties aren’t supposed to be fun” for
bands, Rizzi laughs, but the combination of the Nathan
Sheppard Band and Washington and Lee seems to have
produced nothing but “fun”—for student and musician
alike.

Says Rizzi, “We’re always ready to get to Lexington.”

The story of how the Nathan Sheppard Band came to be
begins in Georgia with one gifted acoustic musician and
three members of a night-job band.

That one musician is of course the band’s namesake,
Nathan Sheppard, who had established himself as an
acoustic artist in Athens for almost a decade when some-
one with a good ear arranged a meeting for him with the
talented bass player, guitarist, and drummer from one
crumbling local band.

The four men just got together for a few jam sessions,
and liked they sound they made.

The local band fell apart, but the new band that formed
is where our story interests itself, a band whose sound has
attracted the interest of record labels and fans across the
South and beyond.

Adjectives do not come easy to describe the sound of the
Nathan Sheppard Band, though—-not even for the band
members.

“lt’s a sound you can’t really describe,” Rizzi explains.

 

I. '. . *. Iﬂfseyourtday

C. E. MILLER
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

First of all, I am not a mother, but being achild (yes even
at 20, my mother still considers me her baby—nevermind
she has 6 other “children” to worry about) does qualify me
to comment on the whole “Mother’s Day” phenomenon
sweeping this campus.

I know you are thinking to yourself, “phenomenon? I
wouldn’t call Mother’s Day a phenomenon.” Well disal-
lowing my propensity for hyperbole, stay with me for a
second. It is truly amazing that this simple Sunday gets so
much attention. I mean I know there is a Grandparent’s
Day, Father’s Day, Groundhog’s Day, Founder’s Day
President’s Day, basically a whole mess of days denoted to
celebrate something. But Mother’s day brings out the best
in our Washington and Lee Students.

Walking around campus this week I have heard pleasant
exchanges between fraternity brothers as follows;

First Guy: So man Mother’s Day is Sunday

Second Guy: No, Really?

First Guy: Yeah, I’m thinking I should send a card.

Second Guy: My dad usually gets ﬂowers, and signs my
name next to his so I’m covered.

First Guy: Cool.

This may not seem that enlightening, but stop and think
how considerate and caring these gentlemen appear in this
particular conversation. This just proves how wonderful
the men at this school have the potential to be, maybe
pointing this out will stop the tide of women who have lost
hope in men, and are turning to other women for the
comfort and love they seek (obligatory Trident Lesbian
reference.) Gentlemen, go spend that 32 cents and mail
your mother a card, it'll be well worth it.

I.

Sister Helen ponders the death penalty.

While Nathan Sheppard himself brings to re-
hearsal rough ideas for songs—music and lyr-
ics—-each member contributes to the song writ-
ing process, adding ideas and helping to create
the final product. That participation means that
every song the band performs is the result of
four accomplished musicians of four different
backgrounds and many different inﬂuences.

Hard put to fit the band within the.Age of
Modern Rock, Rizzi suggests such descriptions
as “folk rock,” “alternative” or “progressive,”
although he’s not too enthusiastic about any
particular label.

There are traces of many different bands in
the sounds of the Nathan Sheppard Band. Rizzi
points to Donovon and Bob Dylan; I would add
Toad the Wet Sprocket and R.E.M. I‘

Whatever other bands and whatever styles
the band may recall, “the chemistry works,”
Rizzi says, which fact is the most important, after
all.

Having toured for a year, the band has been
energetically putting music out.

Their first compact disc, Wandering, is now in its last
stage’ of printing and within a few days their new album
Halflife will be available.

Consisting of 10 songs recorded live and three in a studio
environment, Halflife offers fans all unreleased songs.

The band hopes to bring copies of their newest album to

  

The Nathan
Sheppard Band

its gig at Sigma Nu tonight, but arrangements with Night 0 f - o

Owl ensurethat Waynewill have plenty of Halﬂifes assoon a p - W1“ Pia?’ thls

as possible, available to the W&L fan. p e a r - evenlng at
Another month and a follow-up cd will be available, ances this Sigma Nu.

summer, especially
in and about Atlanta, at intimate as well as very public
venues.

Atlanta yes, but drummer Mike Rizzi speaks for the
band in promising, “Lexington is our favorite place to

Rizzi promises, featuring different versions of the songs on
Halﬂife, and possibly some new material. The album will
be called Wandering.

If CDs on the shelf fail to satisfy the W&L music lover,
consolation rises from the band’s plans to make a number

a

“It'll be like The Firm meets American Gigolo!”

play.”
Well, the Nathan Sheppard Band might well be our
favorite band to listen to.

in the Tom Cruise/Julia Roberts/Susan Sarandon role, we have Richard Gere, steeped
in corruption from the beginning, not innocent of the ways in which justice is
administered, who somehow finds a way to redeem himself. Most of the action takes
place between two people in small, enclosed spaces, or in the courtroom. Somehow,
director Gregory Hoblit manages to sustain the audience’s interest anyhow, often
stunningly.

A lot of the criticism of Richard Gere is that he always plays the same character.
He is basically a “hair actor” like MichaeliDouglas‘-—-once you see his hairstyle, you
know all the intricacies of his character. I disagree with this assessment of Gere.
Anyone who has seen Mike Figgis’s Internal Affairs knows that Gere is capable of
real depth. And yet, in F irstKnight, Sommersby, Pretty Woman, and others, Gere has
only given us blandly good-looking heroes without a trace of realism. Which is odd,
because when Gere is good, he is pretty damn good. In Primal Fear, he is pretty damn
good.

His character is Martin Vail, a defense attorney who sees a shot at the really big
time when an altar boy is accused of killing the archbishop of Chicago. He offers to
defend the accused killer, Aaron Stampler (Edward Norton), pro bono. This involves
him in an actually not very complicated web of intrigue and deceit which gradually
unwinds itself.

The fun of the film is all in the rhythm and the interaction of the characlers.
Unfortunately, even with a high-powered cast including Laura Linney, Frances
McDormand, Andre Braugher, John Mahoney, and Maura Tierney, there are really
only two characters in Primal Fear: Gere’s Vail and first-time film actor Norton’s
Stampler. So they have to sustain a lot. Fortunately, both are up to the task.

Gere plays Vail as a character who acts completely despicably, always scramblirag
for advantage. And he enjoys being as slick as he is. And yet, there is an underlying
optimism, if not idealism, that give the portrayal depth. This performance is really
very well modulated and manages to capture something about Vail that makes you
believe in him.

And as Gere said of Edward Norton, he “is emerging as one of the monster actors
of our time.” After only one ﬁlm? Yep. Without giving away too much of the plot,
the demands of the character of Aaron Stampler are extraordinary. Yet, even though
you can see the clichéd ending coming a mile away, you still believe absolutely in
Aaron Stampler. Without Norton, the movie wouldn’t even sustain itself as long as
it does. Essentially, Norton found himself, as an actor, having to play a character who
is a great actor.

The sophistication and layers of his performance suggest that he is already miles
ahead of most first-time actors, and promise a great career ahead of him. It is very early
for Oscar talk, but I think it is not overstepping to say that so far, Norton has given
one of the strongest supporting performances of the year.

Overall, Primal Fear is a bit too easy, a bit too shadily manipulative, but leaving
the theater, you are not that upset about it. You have seen, after all, some great actors
playing some pretty good roles with absolutely perfect pitch. And you even kind of
get sucked in to the story, even though you know you probably shouldn’t.

As an old guy coming out of the theater where I work said after seeing the film,
“I don’t trust you; I don’t trust nobody.”

      

**$r of 4 stars; solid

but not exceptional

ALEX CHRISTENSEN
PHI M o VIE CRITIC

hat can you expect from a legal
thriller? Well, if you go by
t h e I o h n

Grisham-genre standard, not much
courtroom action at all. I enjoyed The
Firm, The Pelican Brief (which not many
people know is a sequel to All the
President’s Men with Denzel Washing-
ton in the Redford role and Julia Roberts
in the Dustin Hoffman role), and The
Client, but there is something distinctly
anti-lawyer about them.

Maybe it is because Grisham was fed
up with lawyers during his career as one,
maybe he is just matching the national
mood. His heroes are always new to the
legal system and forced through events to “take it on,” of course, always triumphing
in the end. The plots are tight and have explosions and fights and danger.

Not to complain too much, but Primal Fear is certainly not a well-plotted movie.
The pacing, the acting, the mood, are all sustained, but the actual events of the story
may leave you feeling used and a bit deceived yourself. The ending is such that I
hesitate to call it a “thriller,” but I think in the end the hokey final moments are not
enough to spoil what turns out to be a quite entertaining ride.

Primal Fear is a different kind of thriller. There is very little idealism except that
which is actually generated during the film. That is, instead of a hero on a white horse

The  andthe 

Sister Helen Prejean, C.S..I. This is the story of Sister rational ones to the most spiritual and a compassionate
H5160, 3 Catholic null, 1" “"31 L0UlS1ana, who finds arguments. The author clearly proves that capital punish-

DAN ODENWALI)
PHI FEATuREs EDITOR

Imagine you are the parent of lovely teenage daughter.
It’s the night before her high school graduation, and you
kiss her good-bye as she leaves with her boyfriend to attend
a party. You tell her to take her sweater because it’s cold
outside, but she doesn’t listen. She always was headstrong
and independent-minded.

Later that night, you get a call from the police. Your
daughter and her boyfriend have been murdered. She was
raped, forced to lie face down in the mud, and shot in the
back of the head. There are no limits to your rage. Thank-

fully, the murderer I caught, put on trial, and sentenced to V

death. Enter a nun. She works tirelessly to free your
daughter’s killer from Death Row. She aggressively fights
for the abolition of capital punishment. Tears drop from her
face as the murderer is electrocuted. How do you feel?
Betrayed? Angry? Victimized?

As you may have already guessed, this actually hap-
pened. It is the subject ofDead Man Walking:/in Eyewit-
ness Account of the Death Penalty in the United States by

herself vehemently fighting for the demise of capital
punishment. Dead Man Walking has won recent fame as
a critically acclaimed film starring Susan Sarandon and
Sean Penn. Both actors were nominated for Academy
Award. Many do not know, however, that it was based on
a book by Prejean, who served as an advisor to the ﬁlm.

The book follows the path of Sister Helen as she
becomes the spiritual advisor to a condemned man, Pat
Sonnier. Although she puts up a valiant fight to win this
man a pardon from the governor, Prejean must prepare this
man for death. She uses her skill as a counselor and nun
to help Sonnier realize that murdering those two children
was wrong. They agree that killing him is also wrong, but
personal accountability remains an important part of her
counseling. Despite attempts to bar her from Death Row
by prison officials, Prejean takes on more inmates after
Sonnier’s execution. In turn, she become one of the most
ardent opponents of the death penalty in the United States
today. In 1993-1994, she visited the campus of Washing-
ton and Lee to talk about her experiences.

Above all, Dead Man Walking is a persuasive attack on
the Death Penalty. Prejean outlines every conceivable
argument used against it including the most legal and

ment is biased against the poor and racial minorities.
Through painstaking research, she has found that the death
penalty is unfairly administered and unjustly doled out.
Nevertheless, we have to ask that if the death penalty
existed in a vacuum, would it still be fair? Prejean answers
no. God’s law is clear: thou shalt not kill. If it is wrong for
the Pat Sonniers of the world, then it is wrong for the
American government. Prejean also argues that revenge is
fleeting and leaves you empty no matter how terrible your
rage.

Most striking about Sister Helen was her willingness to
search out the victims’ families of the men she counseled
on Death Row. Although some were openly hostile to her,
many received her with open arms. They respected her
opinion and were grateful that she did not ignore the
victims of horrible crimes.

I used to favor capital punishment. Some crimes were
too heinous for me to oppose it. I even said, ‘‘In crimes
against children, I support the death penalty for the death
penalty’s sake.”Dead Man Walking is compelling account
of the way capital punishment operates in the U.S. today.
If you support it, reading this book may very well change
your mind.

.~ -~---\~ ee= -—,v

 

:- —=1-.-.- .v<_-wv.-w-I .—~~..>--».«»-p— —--v«.~---_-- v - . . _. .. H __

 

 

L_PAen 4

NEWS

ANNOUNCEMENTS  

‘Extension
of Liberty
accounts

Graduating students have the op-
tion to keep their Liberty accounts
through May, 1997. If you wish to
take advantage of this offer, please
send a request via email before June
1, 1996 to rbw@wlu.edu with
“GRADUATE LIBERTY AC-
COUNT” in the subject ﬁeld. Lib-
erty accounts for graduating stu-
dents who do not request an exten-
sion will be deleted on or after July

Candlelight
vigil,march
scheduled

On Monday, May 13th there will be
a candlelight vigil. The candlelight
march will start at 7:30 from Lee
Chapel; the Speak Out will be begin
at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel; the Healing
Service will begin at 8:30. All men,
women, W&L students and staff are
welcome. It is sponsored by
Women’s Forum, W&L Life, and
RACASA.

Panel
Discussion

Go rrectio
On Friday, May 10, Women’s Fo- :59 L

rum is sponsoring a panel discus-
sion entitled “Women’s Studies/

Gender Studies: A Major issue.” It
will be held in Northen Auditorium ofThg1zgng,i;;},,}=hi*s;l..ga
from 9:45-1:00. Session one, held :3;-d editiggj*.:’f;;;i,'s{‘;gl;‘¢;;"f

from 10-11 is entitled “The Benefit
of Interdisciplinary Studies.” Ses-
sion two, from 11-12, will be on
“Understanding Women’s Studies
and Gender Studies Programs,” and
session three will be from 12-1 and
regarding “The Value of Women’s

identiﬁedAlisen‘$immen
and Melissa.'."Co;ursort‘

':e§‘.‘-tsthi$erro‘t..*   1

   
   

1, 1996.

Studies and Gender Studies Pro-
grams.”

The Rin -tum Phi MAY 10 1996

 

Burn baby
burn in a  
Ring-tum

Inferno

Join us Tuesdays at 7:00
p,m. in room 208 of the
University Center.

Restaurant
and
Hobbies Lounge
-. 3

3 Lounge open 4:00p.m. to ?
Restaurant 11:00a.m. to 9:30p.m.

   
 
  

Route 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Near the Virginia Horse Center
Phone: 464-9499

   

Harbs'

19 W. Washington St.,
Lexington, VA 24450

Monday: 8am-3pm
Tuesday - Thursday: 8am-10pm
Friday - Saturday: 8am-11pm
Sunday: 9am-3pm

Wednesday - All you can eat Spaghetti & Salad, $4.99

Thursday - 10% oﬂ’ food - with student ID
Friday - Seafood Nite - Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib, 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

Everyday Muffin & Cup of Coffee $1.50
(8 am - 10 am)
Daily Lunch Special with Drink $4.50

Don't Let Your Student
Go Hungry!

Harbs' Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for Breakfast, Lunch,

Dinner
For only $90.00

Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees
Candlelight Dinners

'\  l
Give your Stude~n.§\\ | ‘K 
a Homecooked Meal.‘  ' V, A
With Our /’ S ‘
Point Card

19 W. Washington St.,

   
 

 
   
   
 
  

VVTEAGI-I . ENGLISH s IN KOQEA
aveliable monthly. ,B.A. orB.S.I'de'gree'required.‘
Mccomodatione & round-trip airfare provided.”

dtptoma and copy of passport to: Box Jl corporation he
,5_e,-13 semsung Dong, Kong Nam Gu, ,seeul,..Kotj,ee 
i , _j-82-2-555~JOBS(5627) r=ax:ot1-e2~2-552.—4s=Ax(4t_a ,,

93.’:

  

CRUISE JOBS

Students Needed!

Earn up to $2o00+/mo. working for
Crulseshlps or LandTourcompanios+
World Travel. Seasonal and Full-Time
employment available. For info call:
(206) 971-3550 ext. C53421

tfacarion '96

SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!
Student Travel Services is now
hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
Daytona and Panama City Beach.
Call 1-800-648-4849

Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

EESEE Employment

Fishing industry. Earn up to $3000-
$6000+ per month. Room and board!
Transportation! Male or female. No
experience necessary.

For more information call:

(206) 971-3510 ext. AS3421 UDBTII
Mon.-Sat. 8:30am-6pm
Sun. i-Spm

    
  

.7/747/aha

mtnowaae sroass ”’

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

V:/men % an

Specializing in Unfinished
Furniture and Shades

19 South Randolph Street
463-2742

at em/WW
and LUBE

COLLEGE SQUARE
(Next to Kroger)

   

hot .    
SCI

university of _ is _
  « ﬂ‘IIaI1‘II

mdlphdand phdprograms

httmllspiderf.n1ed.miami.eduIgrad

graduate programs in biomedical sciences

university of rniami school at medicine
p.o. box 016960

miarni, ﬂorida 331 36

phone: 305.243.6406 ,
email: grad@mednet.med.miami.edu

D I t.-.—.. umﬁ
_ ’

GOOD
WEEKLY
INCOME

for national

.I

Process mail

company! Free supplies,I
postage! No selling! Bonusesli
Start immediately! Genuine:
opportunity! :
Rush S.A.S.E.: I
GMU, Suite 216 I
1861 N. Federal Hwy. :
Hollywood, Florida 33020 I
t.______________________.'

$19.95*
E. Nelson Street QUICK LUBE
Lexington INCLUDES:
453"2 135 Auto Transmission Check
Up to 5 quarts 10W/30
Valvoline Oil
wmm: Filter Chassis Lube
individuals,
Student Organizations ‘most cars
and Small Groups to
Promote 1996 Travel _
Packages. 1
Earn Substantial MONEY ‘%w’3
and FREE TRIPS. PEOPLEWHOKNOW

USE VALVOLINE

 

Call INTER-CAMPUS
PROGRAMS
1-800-327-6013

No Appointment Necessary

HOURS:
Mon.- Fri. 8:30AM - 5:00PM
Sat. 8:30 AM- 2:00PM

UNITED STATES

CELLULAR

Be*4i<q‘s |Q€$iClPCl’Ii
oi H19 Lee-H Tr=u(i<siop

     

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday
Breakfast Buffet can handle the
BIGGEST appetite.
The Buffet Is served from 8:00a.m. untll 1:30p.m.
We'll be waiting for you!
, Berky's
Route 11 North - Lexington, VA

You need

good Clothes for  Weather

tgoilllo

Ladies ’ Shoes, Clothing

and A ccessories
23 N. Main St. (703)463-5988

é

ﬂ

 

 

 

, THE RING-TUM PHI, MAY 10, 1996

For updates on
‘ the women ‘s
tennis matches,
call the W&L
Sports Hotline at
 463-8998

    
    
  
  
  

    

V Do You Want VISA 8: Maslercard Credit Cards? , c.1gg£L§ﬁogg9z§£3Rm.§§353n 215 ; (all! ER @ M
J‘ ow u n o 9 ‘ '
.¢.,,',;:i,,, '.;:g.’.°.?§, ,?,1ﬁ“:.?,.*.:§6fE,E',."'l;r°:,;},§°.§§,?‘,,,"{l-:,’.i~’,§,:§ c  |wantVlSﬂ.OlMASTERCARDO Cttdll. ,
It ea s.." n ur name.’ OUARE N I ' ' .
° CREW m1;,’AvE BEEN mm mm BEFORE! ' cnrdaappmved Immediately. mm nuanmret-sun I‘ Journallsmo
and lercard
ll dcoenaev‘asrA1dQneed ii:  : NAME : 
eMemesNE2R&s%1EiE?< sifur:‘ANENé: ' ADDRESS ' .
HCITELS-MOTEl.S—Gh5-CAR ru~:rmus— ' ' BQCC1,
K REPAIRS-ANDTO BUlLDYOUR,CREDlTRA11NGl : CUY STATE .__ZIP I
1
-=-**““‘".... :°'"':.':°':*’.. :';?;'.$fm  :
“g o cre c cc 5 -
o’< q1sN":?yl'  N” 59C‘"'”Y deﬂﬂﬂﬂ ' I011-Z:l_MstclCud Isl u.-gum-d uuaenmuduamouu lnlrmdtornl. Inc. ' There 1s no
‘tall: 1 9 SE“ WE coupon mo" I vunnuegasnma mummdvisa usnummmsntnnmuuom: I , ,
Ynun CREDIT CARDS ARE wunuc! : " "‘""s "° ms“ °°""°" '°°" : VaCC1nat1On'
l

LIVE PERFORMANCE!

"Mesmerizing vocals E?
electrifying stage presence"

Free Admission The Dell

Friday, May 10 (Rainlocation: (iHQ)

Sponsored by Friday ’s

 

SPORTS

PAGE 5 j

Early exitfrom college
into NBA a mistake?

D The Big Fan, from page 6

But they are making a huge mistake. Sure, you ﬁgure that some collegiate
athletes need a road map to ﬁnd a classroom. True enough, but some athletes
find that college motivates them to succeed academically. book at Jacque
Vaughn of Kansas. Besides being a talented point guard who should star in the
NBA for many years, Vaughn carries a 3.7 GPA and even quotes Robert Frost.
And yes, Vaughn will remain at Kansas to graduate.

Many of the athletes who leave school two or more years early never have
the intention of graduating. Like Marbury, they just use college as a way to
position themselves for the NBA.

But a college degree should be more than just a piece of paper for these guys;
it may actually mean something. One figures the top fifteen players selected in
the draft will be starters, but it gets hazy after that. Some players may ride the
pine in the NBA, while others less fortunate may head forthe European leagues.

For those who do make the NBA, what will they do in ﬁfteen years when their
knees start giving out and their shooting touch leaves them? They’l1be forced
to find jobs in the regular work force, but without a degree, where do they start?
One thing college would do is teach athletes how to integrate themselves with
people you don’! ﬁnd in locker rooms. lt is unlikely you’ll see lverson behind
a desk at IBM or Garnett manning the phones for AT&T. Unless they get plenty
of endorsements, they’ll need to ﬁnd themselves regular employment. You’re
more likely to ﬁnd some of the lesser players cooking hot dogs at Stop-ln or
stocking shelves at Wal-Mart, reminiscing about the good old days when they
made plenty of money.

‘lt’s a darn shame, but with a full ride through school and people who want
to help them succeed academically, they’ll have nobody to blame but them-
selves.

 
 

Busch Gardens Trip

Saturday, May 18

  
 
   
    
   

Tickets: $20

Includes bus ride, park
admission, rides, and
attractions!

See Michelle
Richardson in
Room 103 of the
University
Center.

W

  

3h-

   

BUY YOUR TICKETS

NOW FOR THIS GREAT ‘
OFFER! ‘
Wt

 

Last Week:

L. 6-3. vs.Vlrg1nla Wesleyan: L. 13-6. vs. Lynchburg
in ODAC Tournament

MLM:Itoeel - W. 11-8. vs. Virginia Military Institute

W'I‘nms - W. 5-0. vs. Sewanee at Kalamazoo (NCAA Tournament)
W, 5-2, vs. Pomona Pitzer; W, 5-2, vs. Trinity

Banan-

PAGE 6

 

S

Clip: iiling-tum iﬂlii

PORTS

BASEBALL, Lacnosss, TENNrs, Gour, TRACK AND FIELD

Ehunn -
Whnm -
Tournament

This Week:

Today vs. Averett. at ’I‘rinlty(NCAA SE Regionals)
Today vs. winner of Kenyon-Emory in NCAA

MAY 10, 1996

Women’s tennis dominates national tournaet

vancing to the second round.
The Generals had no trouble
racking up a victory against
Sewanee, S-0.

Washington and Lee was
led by the national No. 1
doubles team of Natalia Garcia
and Julie Ayers, who cruised to
an 8-0 victory. Berry
Blankinship and Ericka
Shapard also had no problem
posting an 8-2 win at number
two doubles. Shelley
Sunderman and Helen Chan-
dler completed the doubles
sweep, winning 8-2 at the num-
ber three position.

In the singles competition,
the Generals needed just two
matches to win the decision.
Playing at No. 1 singles, Garcia
annihilated Sewanee’s Kristen
Ialacci, 6-0, 6-0. Before the
match, lalacci was ranked 10th
nationally in the most recent

BY BET]-IANY BAUMAN
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

he Washington And Lee
women’s tennis team,
ranked fourth in Division
III, continued its incredible sea-
son with a great performance at
the fourteen-team national tour-
nament this week. W&L fin-
ished the regular season with a
perfect 16-0 mark. This record
included a 6-3 victory over the
University of the South
(Sewanee, TN), who the Gener-
als met on Tuesday in the first
round of the NCAA Women’s
Tennis Championships at
Kalamazoo College .

Due to the bad weather, the
tournament director announced
that matches would be played
until a decision, with the first
team to win five matches ad-

Intercollegiate Tennis Associa-
tion poll, while Garcia was
ranked 11th. Ialacciwasthe only
player to defeat Garcia in a dual
match all season.

Helen Chandler wrapped up
the win for the Generals, defeat-
ing her opponent 6-3, 6-1 at No.
6 singles.

Washington and Lee met
Pomona-PitzerforWednesday’s
second round. The Generals
struggled in doubles play, losing
two of three matches. Only the
No. 3 team of Chandler and
Sunderman won against their
Pomona-Pitzer opponents, 8-4.

But the women were not dis-
couraged bythe 2-1 deficit. They
came back to take four singles
victories. At No. 2 singles,
Shapard clinched a straight set
victory (6-1, 6-1) over Kristina
Lott. Blankinship followed suit,
posting a 6-4, 6-4 win against

Christie Cooley. Sunderman
and Chandler finished off the
win for the Generals, both down-
ing their opposition 6-2, 6-0.

Garcia and Ayers were not
able to finish their matches be-
cause play was called due to
weather.

But with the 5-2 victory, the
women advanced to the semi-
finals. They met second-seeded
Trinity on Thursday morning.
This semiﬁnal match between
W&L and Trinity was a rematch
of last year’s consolation finals
of the NCAAs. The Generals
prevailed, 5-4, in that meeting,
the only match ever between the
two teams.

W&L pulled off the upset
over Trinity, 5-2. The Generals
jumped to an early lead after
Ayers and Garcia defeated the
sixth-ranked tandem of Laura
Brady and Vanessa Hill, 8-4.

3.1

Photo courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Graig Fantuzzi was named to the all-ODAC team
last week, after leading W&L to its first playoff
appearence in five years.

JOCK SHORTS

The W&L men’s
tennis team will travel to San
Antonio, Texas this weekend
to play in the NCAA South
Regional Tournament at Trin-
ity University. The Generals
posted a 10-5 regular season
record and went on to win its
11th ODAC title in the last 12
years.

Washington and Lee
received the No. 7 seed and
will face Averett in the first

Five of Washington
and Lee’s spring season ath-
letes were named to all-
ODAC teams last week. Se-
niors Graig Fantuzzi and Matt
Ermigiotti were respectively
named to the first and second
all-ODAC baseball teams.
Fantuzzi, who led the Gener-
als with a .378 batting aver-
age and set a new school
record with 45 hits, was named
to the first team in the out-
field.

Second team selec-
tion Ermigiotti hit a .354 this
season with 25 RBI and had a
6-5 record on the mound with
a 3.15 ERA. Ermigiotti was
named to the all-conference
team as a designated hitter
and pitcher.

MEN’S TENNIS TO PLAY AT REGIONALS:

round. Eight teams will be
playing in this weekend’s
tournament. The Generals
played four of these teams
during the regular season -
defeating No. 5 Sewanee and
No.8 Methodist, but losing to
No. 3 Emory and No. 6
Salisbury State.

W&L is hoping to
make its first NCAA Division
III Tournament appearance
since 1991.

A WOMEN’S LACROSSE AND BASEBALL
ALL ODAC TEAMS ANNOUNCED:

W&Lwas well rep-
resented in the all-ODAC
women’s lacrosse selections.
Senior Cinnie Logan and jun-
ior Brooke Glenn were
namedtothefirstteam,while
senior Cheryl Taurassi, jun-
ior Erika Snyder, and sopho-
more Whitney Parker were
second team selections.
Logan and Snyder led the
Generals with 33 goals a
piece and Parker caged nine
goals as a midfielder.
Taurassi was the leading de-
fender, making 12 intercep-
tions and grabbing 44 ground
balls. Glenn was the Gener-
als top goalie, surpassing the
200 save mark for the second _
season and allowing less than '
eight goals a game.

their help!

Thanks to Jac Coyne and Brian
Logue of Sports Information for all of

Chandler and Sunderman also
posted an 8-6 win over Christy
Wussow and Sara Feuler at No.
3 doubles.

Garcia and Shapard also saw
victory in singles play, however,
perhaps the most memorable
singles match was played by
Blankinship. She lost the first
set 0-6, but came back to win the
match with 6-4, 7-6 second and
third set victories.

The women's tennis team is
now one step away from a na-
tional title. Today they will meet
the winner of the Kenyon-Emory
semifinal starting at 12 noon.

Following the team portion
of the competition, Washington
and Lee will be represented in
the individual tournament this
weekend. Ayers and Garcia will
see action in the doubles draw
while Shapard will play in the
singles draw.

Losses to
VA Wesleyan

and Lynchburg

in the ODAC
tourney end
Generals‘
dream season

BY CHRIS PUGSLEY
PHI STAFF WRITER

he Washington and Lee

Generals have just com-

pleted their best season
since 1935 with a trip to
Lynchburg to challenge for the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence title. Unfortunately, the
Generals came up short in their
efforts and finished the season
with a 16-11 overall record.

In the first round, the Gener-
als met the Marlins of Virginia
Wesleyan. Matt Errnigiotti gave
his best effort on the hill but six
Generals’ errors caused Wash-
ington and Lee to falter to a 6-3
loss. The Generals fell behind
early but maintained a positive
attitude and tried to make acome-
back. W&L scored twice in the
bottom of the sixth inning on
RBI doubles by Graig Fantuzzi

    

Photo courtesy of W&L Sports Infonnation

Senior Julie Ayers’ strong performance helped
the Generals advance to the ﬁnals of the NCAAs.

Baseball eliminated from ODACS

and Ermigiotti. Both teams
scored once in the seventh, but
the Marlins added single runs in
the eighth and ninth to pull off
the win.

The Generals next met the
Hornets of Lynchburg College,
who had nearly pulled off a stun-
ning upset of number one seed
and defending ODAC champion
Bridgewater in the opening
round of the double elimination
t o u 1' -

ment team.

The results of this tourna-
ment are in no way indicative of
the Generals’ overall effort and
performance in an exciting sea-
son. W&L received record-
breaking performances and out-
standing leadership from all their
players. Seniors Graig Fantuzzi
and Matt Errnigiotti were named
to the all-ODAC team.

Despite the imminent gradu-
ation of several

n e y . key seniorsfrom
T h e the team, many
Gener- 14051118 the Sc’ underclassmen
?..m'p.§ ‘“°'5 is °°" i';?§'pf.?.’£?s‘é'?§;
out toa tainly g0ing to the future of
quick1- Generals’ base-
0 lead hurt’ but I ball. Anineom-
on a ' think we have ing class of
r u n - freshman which
scoring a lot of talent lookstomakean
double coming up that immediate im-
b y pact will aid the
fresh- should be able Generals in
m a n to  the roles, maintaining this
Patrick tremendouspace
Hall. "Bob Weston and keeping the

But winning tradi-
t h e tionaliveinLex-

Hornets rebounded to erase that
advantage, scoring four times in
the bottom of the third and six
runs in the fourth. Lynchburg
cruised to a 13-6 victory and
eliminated the Generals from the
tournament. Hall led W&L in
the effort with two hits and two
RBIs. He was the Generals’
only selection to the all-tourna-

ington. Hall and freshman
pitcher Bob Weston agree that
there is a lot of work to be done
before the team earns their next
playoff berth. But Weston as-
serts that, “Losing tne seniors is
certainly going to hurt, but I
think we have a lot of talent
coming up that should be able to
fill the rolls.”

Generals take eighth
Lee-Jackson Classic-

Bv BETHANY BAUMAN
PHI SPORTS Eorroa

he Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team
pulled off an exiting 11-8
victory over the VMI Keydets in
last Saturday’s Ninth Annual
Lee-Jackson Classic.

In front of a crowd of over
4,000, the Generals pulled away
to a 5-2 lead by the end of the
first quarter, W&L outscored
VMI 3-0 in the second, putting
the score going into half-time at

But the Keydets, under the
guidance of head coach Doug
Bartlett, refused to let the Gen-
erals run away with the game.
They scored six straight goals in
the third quarter, with senior
midfielder David Belfiore net-
ting two goals and an assist to
lead the rally. W&L’s troubles
in the third, especially in man-
down situations, was partially
due to the loss of junior
defenseman Pete Rowan to a
knee injury.

The 8-8 tie going into the
final quarter was not the only
trouble the Generals faced.
W&L had to fight off a three-
minute stick penalty to start the
quarter. Sophomore midfielder
Ed Dougherty broke the tie, scor-
ing at the 10:34 mark.
Midfielders Adam Butterworth
and Chip Thompson followed
Dougherty’s lead, each caging
fourth quarter goals to ice the
win for the Generals. -

VMI goalie Ryan Olson and
W&L midfielder Shane
McLaughlin were named as the

Photo by W. Patrick Hinley

The Generals posted an 11-8 win over the Keydets.

game’s MVP’s and were both
awarded the Worrell-Fallon
Memorial Award. Olson set a
Lee-Jackson record, making 18
saves. McLaughlin also had an
outstanding performance, scor-
ing a career-high three goals and
winning eight of twelve face-
offs.

Head coach Jim Stagnittawas
happy with his team’s effort,
especially with the fact that the
majority of the scoring came
from the team’s younger play-
ers. The Generals finished off
the season ranking 12th in Divi-

sion Ill, and won ten games for
the first time since 1993.
Stagnitta is looking forward

to next season when he will have ’

a talented core returning and a
promising freshmen class com-
ing in. With hard work in the
off-season, Stagnitta hopes that

the players will come back.

primed for a playoff run. He
said, “They’re so close and they
know it. One goal away from
the playoffs, two from being in
the top six teams, and three from
having a home seed. You can’!
get any closer than that.”

?,

ﬁr

 

