 

.«- _/

.  .  a, I_»_g;y5s_;sI,_. ;_,.!:«.,l,.___..),.),
A . )' I .
- . LEm<‘::_OtN l;-:l..’':!¥¢lTY
.’ (

VOLUME 9.8!. NUMBER 15

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

JAN 2 8 1997
JANUARY 27, 1997

GENERAL
NOTES

LEE SMITH READS AT W&L:

Award-winning author Lee Smith will perform a reading on
Wednesday, Feb. 5 at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

Smith graduated from Hollins College and is currently
teaching English at North Carolina State University. Her
books are based on the lives ofAppalachian residents. Smith’s
reading is presented by the Glasgow Endowment Program. The
public is invited to attend.

MSA SPONSORS KING:

Fans of actress and producer Yolanda King should be in Lee
Chapel at 8:00 p.m. on Monday, when the Minority Student
Association will start the celebration of Black History Month
with a talk by King, daughter ofthe late Martin Luther King, Jr.

King combines her talents for the dramatic arts with an
involvement in civil and human rights projects. She appeared
in showcase and Off—Broadway performances, as well as in the
recent film “Ghosts of Mississippi.”

C-SCHOOL SHOWS ALUM’S ART:

“Bamboo in the Wind,” an exhibit by W&L alum Michael
Kopald ’73, is on display in the lobby of the C-school. The
paintings include respresentations of bamboo, orchid, Chrysan-
themum and plum blossom.

Kopald studied under I—Hsiung Ju, a master Chinese
brush painter and W&L professor emeritus, and was
among the first 12 American students to study painting
in the Republic of China.

An opening reception will be held on Friday at 5:30 p.m. in
the C-school. The public is invited to attend.

BEN & JERRY’S IN THE D-HALL:

Fred “Chico” Lager will delight Ben & Jerry’s Ice
Cream lovers when he visits Lee Chapel and Evans
Dining Hall on Thursday at 7:00 p.m. As former presi-
dent and CEO Lager helped transform Ben & Jerry’s $1
million venture into a $150 million empire. He is
currently on the board of directors and author of “Ben
& Jerry’s: The Inside Scoop.”

The public is invited to attend his speech in Lee Chapel and
the ice cream reception following in the D-Hall.

IMAGO TICKETS ON SALE:

Lenfest will present “Imago” on Feb. 25 at 8:00 p.m.
in the Keller Theatre; Tickets arenow on sale at- the
Lenfest box office.

“Imago” is a theater mask ensemble known for their clever
use of mime, dance and acrobatics. The program will feature
such pieces as “Frogs,” “Cowboy,” “Sloth Circus,” “Slinky”
and “Orb.”

BECOME A BIG BROTHER:

If you would like to be a volunteer big brother or big sister,
please pick up an application outside of Carol Calkins office in
the University Center.

GET FINGERPRINTED:

The Rockbridge County Sheriff’s Office asks that
any students who reside in Rockbridge County and need
to have their fingerprints taken for future employment,
bar exams, graduate schools, etc., make their requests
for this service at the Sheriff’s Office only on Thursdays
8:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m.

BE A LIFE SAVER:

LIFE, Lifestyle Information For Everyone, is looking
for new members. Become a trained peer educator on
health and wellness issues and have fun while making a
difference.

Applications are available outside Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center. Interviews will be held
on Tuesday. For more information, call 462-4501.

—CoMFI1.ED BY PEGGY STUNZ

 

 

FOPINION

Liberals take over Board of Trustees in Erika
Woodson’s dream. “From the Right” looks at
Clinton's effortless policy switches. “Life on the Hill”
urges students to examine the SJC.

F FEATURES

The Phi looks back on the Assimila-
tion Committee. “Star Wars” ex-
plode onto the screen. WLUR plans
to play more music. The Gimp re-
counts the Barrister’s Ball.

VSPORTS

W&L’s teams struggling through mid—season slump.
The Big Fan comments on yesterday's Super Bowl
X)(X| action. Jason breaks away from the Editorial
Page to review the creme de la creme of the Super
Bowl commercials.

 

‘Apartment ABBA’ wins Lip Synch

BY TOM WADLOW
PHI AssIsTANT NEws EDITOR

nity and sorority pledges, a coalition of fraternity house
mothers also participated this year. In the grand tradi-

Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger’s An-
nual Lip Synch Contest raised $3,400 and some stu-
dents eyebrows on Friday night, making this year’s
event the most successful ever, SARAH advisor Jerry

Darrell said.

Emceed again this year by the charismatic Matt
O’Brien, over 30 performances took the stage in the’
Student Pavilion. Musical acts ranged from “Simon
and Garfunkel” to the “Blues Brothers.”

“Not only is Lip Synch a very good cause because it
helps the area’s hungry families, but it also helped me
get to know the pledge sisters I performed with,” Kappa
Delta pledge Erika Woodson explained. KD entered

four acts in the competition.

Although the event is usually dominated by frater-

    

Photo by Mar lomiany
Sigma Phi Epsilon sings the blues.

from the audience.

O’Brien said.

came in second place.

tion of the distinguished vice-president Al Gore, they
performed “The Macerena.” Although they did not
win, the house mothers received a favorable reaction

‘‘I thought it showed that life really begins after 50,”

The winners were determined by audience response
and a panel of judges. “Apartment ABBA,” with Erin
Rosencrans, Nejma Petit, Vanessa Hall and Shelli
Henderson won the first place prizeof $100.

Kappa Kappa Gamma with their act “Proud Mary”

The Dining Hall troupe’s “Sister Act IV” took third.

The proceeds from the evening will be used to
combat hunger in the community. ‘‘It was great!”
Darrell said. ‘‘It was a huge success.”

 

Phi Gamma Delta’s lose that lovin’ feelin’.

Photo by Mark Slomiany

  
    

Photo by Mark Slomiany

Apartment ABBA wins first place at the
Lip Synch contest Friday night.

Photo by  Slomiany

Rob Hughes and Joe Merlino strum.

W&L alumnus, professor defend
ABC in investigative tactics ease  

BY AARON FOLDENAUER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee Professor
of Religion Louis Hodges and Alum-
nus William Jeffress (’67) played
key roles in the lawsuit between
Food Lion and ABC that attracted
nationwide attention. Hodges served
as an expert witness for ABC and
Jeffress was the lead ABC attorney.

The lawsuit concerned ABC’s un-
dercover reporting tactics in a 1992
“PrimeTime
Live” hidden-
camera exposé
that accused
Food Lion of
repackaging
and selling old
meat and
chicken.

Despite the
efforts of
W & L ’ s
Hodges and
Jeffress, last
week Food
Lion was
awarded over
$5.5 million in
punitive dam-
ages.

“This is a
major case. This is not lightweight
stuff,” said Hodges who testified

“A very long
tradition,
tried-and-true
journalistic
method of
investigation is
at stake here.”
-- Louis Hodges

for ABC on the history of under-

cover reporting in the United States.

“I’m afraid it might do some very
serious damage, as a matter of fact.”

Since September, Hodges
worked with an ABC legal team
reading depositions and research-
ing scholarly and industry standards
in the field of investigative jour-
nalism.  '

Hodges is the Director and
Founder of W&L’s ethics program
and routinely conducts journalism
seminars in newsrooms across the
country.

The leader of the ABC team was
Jeffress, former student body presi-
dent of W&L and graduate of Yale
Law School. He has been a trial law-
yer since 1972, and his Washington
D.C. law firm specializes in complex
litigation.

The ABC team picked Hodges to
play a key role in the defense team
after discovering a 1988 article of
Hodges that reflected the position of
ABC.

In the article, which appeared in the
“Journal of Mass Media Ethics,”
Hodges lays out three conditions
that must be met in order to justify
undercover reporting: the issue
must be of significant importance
to the general public; there must
not be a more reasonable, honest
way of efficiently getting the nec-
essary information; and the under-
cover reporter must not masquer-
ade in a role he cannot perform and
must not threaten the safety of inno-

Music department presents
‘Schubertiade’ program

BY COURTNEY MILLER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Social fraternities, similar to the
Greeks on Washington and Lee
University's campus, were outlawed by
the King of Hungary in the late 1700’s.
The artists and musicians of that time
did what any Greek boy would dotoday:
they continued the party in someone
else’s living room.

The Washington and Lee music de-

partment will be recreating this spirit

Tuesday, Jan. 28 at 8 p.m. in the Johnson
Theater. “Scnubertiade” will celebrate
the life and works of Franz Schubert.

“It will be short selections of music
interspersed by anecdotes and history,”
Scott Williamson, professor of music,
said.

In Schubert’s time the political and
social climate forced social gatherings
underground. Schubert invited play-
wrights, poets, opera singers and musi-
cians to perform in an informal setting.
He often premiered his latest works for
these audiences, said Williamson. After

dinner the guests would dance and dis-
cuss politics.

Kirk Follio, a German professor, will
be readingshort selectionsofSchubert’s
poetry in German. Soprano Catherine
Gaylard and Williamson, a tenor, will
perform several of Schubert’s songs.

“This is a great chance to learn about
Schubert outside of a classroom set-
ting,” Emily Framptom, music history
major, said.

Framptom will be talking about
Schubert’spiano compositionsTuesday.
The other music history majors will
present short talks on several aspects of
Schubert. »

‘‘It was Williamson’s idea to involve
the majors in the Schubertiade,”
Framptom said. “It’ll be interesting to
see how everything works out.”

Afterthe event, the International Club
will host an Austrian-style reception
which the public is invited to attend.

‘‘I hope this will become part of the
interdisciplinary program,” Williamson
said. “It’ll be a great experience for all
those who attend.”

cent people.

“If all three conditions are met,”
Hodges said, “then it is morally good
for ajournalist to use deceptive means
to gather information.”

Hodges was on the stand for about
three hours in all on two different days,

' Jan. 8th and 10th.

7 “I felt sort of isolated, but it was not
at all trau-
matic,” said
Hodges. “I
knew the sub-
ject. And on
the stand,
you’ve got to
be pretty pre-
cise in what
you say.”

L i k e
J e f f r e s s ,
Hodges is not
without trial
experience.
Hodges re-
cently testified
against a Den-
ver newspaper
that wasbeingsued forlibel afterprint—
ing an inaccurate story that supposedly
damaged a local doctor’s reputation.

As for the conclusion of the Food
Lioncasethat has been active since 1992,
Jeffress speculated that appeals courts
will likely either overturn or reduce the
damages awarded to Food Lion. In the
meantime, the W&L alumnus is busy
“catching up on everything else.”

 

“The punitive
damage award
punishes
journalists.”

-- William
Jeffress (’67)

Verdict harms

investigative 

journalism

BY AARON FOLDENAUER
PHI STAFF WRITER

The recent judgment agai nst ABC’s
use of hidden cameras endangers the
future ofinvestigative reporting in the
United States, said Louis Hodges,
Washington and.Lee.Prof.essor of Re-
ligion and ABC expert witness.

The case is unusual because Food
Lion sued over the network’s decep-
tive techniques, not over the veracity
of ABC’s award-winning report.

The judge ruled Food Lion could
not recover lost profits since the report
was not proven false, but will receive
$5.5 million in punitive damages.

“The punitive damage award pun-
ishes journalists, when the truti= of what
was reported hasn’t been questioned,”
ABC attorney William Jeffress(’67) said.

Hodges agrees. “A very long-stand-
ing,tried-and-truejournalistic method
of investigation is at stake here,” he
said. “Many of the most important
stories in the history of American jour-
nalism have been done undercover.”

For example, Nellie Bly, in 1888,
posed as an patient in an insane asylum
that was mistreating patients. She
uncovered corruption and, as a result
of her work, the asylum was reformed.
She was one of a group ofjournalists
who effected much-needed social re-
form by revealing scandals. President
Theodore Roosevelt called journalists
like Bly “muckrakers.”

For decades, journalists have fol-
lowed Bly’s tactics and provided a
community service. According to
Hodges, the verdict of the Food Lion
and ABC case deﬁnitely harms the
field of investigative reporting.

‘Acoustic Evening’: good
music for a good cause

BY ERICA PRossER
PHI STAFF WRITER

The “One Acoustic Evening” benefit
concert will be held Saturday, Feb. 8, at
Johnson Theatre. Admission to this con-
cert is $3, and the proceeds go to two
alternative spring break projects.

“Christmas in April,” a project that
performs housing rehabilitation and yard
work for the elderly in Rockbridge County,
willreoeivehalfofthemoneyfromtheevening.
The rest of the proceeds will go to a group of
students who will travel to Nicaragua during
their spring break to work with a non-proﬁt
organization called “Bridges to Community.”

The performers for the night Thisisthe third ycarof the partner-
are Mike Seeger, former mem— ship. '
ber ofthe New Lost City Ram- Lastyear’strip included fin-

blers and traditional old—time mu-
sician and “documentarian;” the
Larry Keel Experience; James
Leva, memberof the Frcewi ll Sav-
ages and French professorat VMI
(W&L ’80) and his wife, Carol
Elizabeth Jones, both former art-
ists-in-residence for Lime Kiln
Arts; “Ginseng,” featuring Mar-
garet James, former LKA artist-
in—residenceandactress;andDianaSchoﬁeld
owner of Rockbridge Music.

Also on stage will be Colleen McFeely, a
law student and member of St. Patrick’s
CCM contemporarychoirand Bill McCorkle,
director of the Rockbridge chorus.

 

ishing a school and building a
washing facility for the local
community.

This year the group will be
going to the impoverished east
coast ofNicaragua to help con-
struct one of the only universi-
ties in that area.

“It won’tbelike W&L,” he
said, “but it will have class-
room facilitics for the students.”

The groupof about 20 students and profes-
sorsincludingW&L’sI’rofessorHerrick,will
work alongside Nicaraguan college students.

The concert issponsorcdbythc Catho-
lie Campus Ministry.

 

 

  

PAGE 2

OPINION

JANUARY 27, 1997

Clinton heads for distinguished place in history

When President Clinton took the oath of
office last Monday, he became the first Demo-
cratic president since Franklin Roosevelt to be
elected twice to the presidency. Clinton’s
second term does not face the dire circum-
stances that Roosevelt faced, communism is
dead, and the economy is running well, so

From the Right
Jason Zacher ’98

The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor

what is Clinton to do this term?

The things on Clinton’s agenda, to date,
have been very vague, but he will probably
outline some of them during his State of the
Union address. What we should probably ask
is what is on Hillary’s agenda, since without
her, Clinton would be a hapless president,
without any direction whatsoever. David Brock
said that Clinton has placed whatever prin-
ciples he has in a receivership maintained by

his wife. Even his most ardent defender,
James Carville, has asked other advisors where
Clinton stands on issues.

In a CNN/Time poll taken after the Novem-
ber election, of the 49 percent of voters that
cast their ballots for Clinton, only 14 percent
agreewithhispositions. Unfortunately,Clinton
sees his election as a mandate to enact his
policies, not much unlike the Republicans in
1994. Clinton will get more than his chance by
being the first president to have line-item veto
powers. Which way will his policies go?

Since he was governor of Arkansas,
Clinton’s policies have seemed to steadily
move right. However, this shift, which has
become readily apparent in his first term as
President, does not convince the Republicans,
and has alienated many Democrats also. Some
of Clinton’s promises in this recent campaign
came at the behest of Democratic party leader-
ship. Two other Presidents this century have
alienated their parties, and both had disastrous
second terms: Woodrow Wilson and Richard
Nixon.

When Wilson was reelected in 1916, he
also only received 49 percent ofthe vote. His
gradual adoption of the progressivism cham-

“Clinton is set-
ting himself up
to set his place
in history. That
place may not
be the glory he
envisions. . 

pioned by Repubiican Theodore Roosevelt
alienated him from his party leadership, and
when he ran into trouble over the Versailles

Treaty and the League of Nations, both parties
abandoned him.

Nixon was elected by voters that were grow-
ing tired of Democratic bunglings in Vietnam.
When Nixon’s domestic policies started to
drift left, he fell victim to the same thing that
claimed Wilson. When Watergate fell upon
him, he had alienated both the Democrats and
Republicans, and no one came to his aid.

In response to this, take the case of Ronald
Reagan. His Republican "Reagan Revolu-
tion" led him and the Republicans to two
landslide elections. Though he was disliked
by the Democrats, his consistently conserva-
tive policies had his party solidly behind him.
When the Iran-Contra story broke, arguably a
worse scandal than Watergate, others stood up
to take the heat for him. Reagan left office in
1989 a popular president.

This is not to say that Clinton’s second
term is goingto be plagued by a major scandal,

but after seeing his first term, I do not think it
would surprise anybody. So what does he
have on tap for his second term? We shall see

during the State of the Union. He will prob-
ably move a little fuilher right, and live all
alone between the parties."

Clinton tries to assert that he is not ideo-
logical, which Historian Gary Wills says,
“infuriates|iberals while not convincing con,-
servatives.” Clinton is setting himself up to
set his place in history. That place may not be
the glory he envisions, but rather, the same
place Wilson and Nixon hold. We remember
them mostly for their failures.

Clinton needs to understand that poli-
cies will be passed, and people will get
hurt. By trying to be everything to every-
body, he becomes nothing to everybody.
There is no initiative that everyone will
like. And maybe,just maybe, for once in
his political career he should not consult
fifteen polls to decide his position on
something.

Then everybody, from Carville to Newt
Gingrich will know what he stands for,
and they can make a reasonable judgement
about him.

Tl/ia‘5 '5 nol‘ The pail’
70'-We’ looking fan I

    
 

Boys owfe gonna:
lttxvjﬂ ‘l’o sh u'l‘ clown.

 
 

Trustees make shocking changes

OK, I know those of you who
are Betsy Green’s fans are won-
dering, “My God, where’s my
comical guru’s column this week?”
Well, sorry, kiddies, but instead of
running “The Best of Betsy” while

My View
Erika Woodson ’99

she’s gone, I’ve been asked to fill
in. I will try not to suck...too much.

A while back, after a vicious all-
nighter, I had a dream - no, make
that a nightmare. It was bad. Very
bad. Allow me, if you will, to
share it as best I can. It was a bit
like a fairy tail, ifI can remember
correctly. . .

. . .Once upon a time, in a land

was a beautiful, extremely presti-
gious, super-isolated college
nestled in the Blue Ridge Moun-
tains. We’ll call it Washington
and Lee University (just for fun).
W&L had the reputation of not
being very politically correct and
not really caring about it either.
One day, however, the entire Board
of Trustees was hit by lightening.
A new Board had to be formed
immediately. Afterarandom, care-
less selection process, the new
Board went to work quickly and
set about many changes in a school
that had not changed since the turn
of the century. After a couple of
weeks, the W&L community made
a shocking discovery: the new
Board of Trustees were all liberals.

There were many disturbing

  

far, far away from reality, there changes all over the Hill. The

3 . -

Ellie iﬂmg-tum lﬂln
Executive Editor ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord
Managing Editor ........................................................... ..Hillary Coombs
News Editor ....................................................................... ..Tarah Grant
Assistant News Editor ....................................................... ..Tom Wadlow
Editorial Page Editor ..................................................... ..Jason Zacher
Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman
Features Editor ................................................................. ..Dave Balsley
Assistant Features Editor ................................................ ..Andrea Ewing

dent.

and obscenity.

Photography Editor ....................................................... ..Mark Slomiany

Advertising Manager ...................... ..
Circulation Managers .................... ..

.................................. ..Chip Harrell
....... ..Danie1 Harrell. Justin Laborde

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Fund-
ing for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum
Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters.
columns. and “My Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂedt the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum ﬁhi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wluJedu

laundry rooms’ condom machines
were now set up to take University
Cards. Financial Aid students too
lazy to do work-study were put on
“D-Hall Stamps”. The Chemistry
Department was forced to reduce
it’s paper usage to only three
rainforests per student. The most
shocking change, however, took
place in the curriculum.
Afterall,who would’vethought
that whole Ebonics thing out west
would have affected us so much
here on the super-isolated nirvana
of the Hill? Those feisty foreign-
ers who inhabited the upper half of
Tucker Hall fought back vehe-
mently against the Board of Trust-
ees’ attempts to install an Ebonics
curriculum in the language depart-
ments, but it was all in vain. The
College readily displaced half of
the French Department to make
room for the new language.
Professor Coolio, already pre-
approved to lead the Ebonics De-
partment after his impressive show-
ing at the previous year’s pre-FD
concert, set out to staff the rest of
the department by wining and din-
ing all three Ebonics-speaking resi-
dent ofthe Greater Lexington Area
and celebrated Ebonics author
Buckwheat. Dr. Coolio and his
new faculty defined the new
major’s requirements:
EBON 101 - Beginning Ebonics
EBON 161 - Advanced Beginning

Ebonics

EBON 164 - Advanced Intermedi-
ate Ebonics

EBON 169 - Advanced, Advanced
Ebonics

EBON172 - Advanced, Advanced,
Advanced Ebonics. No Diggity!
EBON 213 - Ebonics Literature in
Translation

MUSIC 215 - The Motown Era
MUSIC 217 - Rap: LL Cool J to

“The College
readily
displaced half
of the French
Department to
make room for
the new
language.”

Fresh Prince

MUSIC 219 - Rap II: The Death
Row Era

EBON 313 - Yo’ Momma Jokes
EBON 458 - Exchange Program
with Whassup! University in
Hampton, CA

Quote of theWeek

“A whole room of
W&L students and
not one bottle
opener?”

- frusturated junior trying to open her beer

Please see Trwsrx-:1«:s
page 4

Students need to

examine

SJC

before elections

I call it Honor system part II:
they’re calling the Blue Book. It
isn’t about lying, cheating, or
stealing, it's all about misconduct:
smoking pot, breaking a window,
fighting. Conduct that can get an
individual dismissed from school.
Only nobody onthis campus seems

Life on the Hill
C. E. Miller ’98

to care.

It is time the students realize
that if the faculty approves the
Student Judicial Council in March
it will make a difference in how
each one of us behaves. Big
Brother has a whole new set of

1 ‘rules. * ‘t » *

“l=‘a‘clm'it at firs-t—'»l-ignoredfithe
stories about Paul Saboe and Rob-
ertCovington’scrusadeto destroy
the Student Conduct Committee
and introduce the SJC, a revital-
ized organization modeled closely
after the Executive Committee.
Then I got my own copy of the
Blue Book and I read it.

The Blue Book basically out-
lines the structure of the SJC and
the power that it has—power that
is controlled by the Student Af-
fairs Committee who in turn re-
ports to the faculty. That is why
the students need to know enough
about the SJC to give the faculty
feedback. In March they could
pass this proposal and change the
way misconduct cases are handled.

Before this crusade started, the
SCC was a little known group that
dealt with reports of conduct vio-
lation, with members appointed
by the Executive Committee. This
year’s members have heard more
misconduct cases already than
were heard last year. Many people
have been put on Social Probation
for the remainder of the year.

What is Social Probation? As
defined by the Blue Book it keeps
a student from participating in any
university or fraternity sponsored
social function held on campus.
Read: no Fancy Dress, no base-
ment band parties, no Fridays!

It is such a severe punishment,
and one which is terribly hard to
enforce. So as a student if I were
on Social Probation and I showed
up and my fraternity’s band party
I would be in violation of a SJC
sanction which would result in

The Ring-tum Phi

welcomes all letters to the editor!

Turn all submissions in to the University Center:
Send them to:

Editor
The Ring-tum Phi
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

or e—mail them to:
jzacher@wlu.edu

_....:.‘._1 - . .-...4.~.....«._L' . ‘M _...' ....;_.iE__’ .‘. Z. Z .

immediate from
school.

I know that immediate suspen-
sion doesn’t sound too threaten-
ing, but imagine if it were the
middle of Winter Term: I would
have to go home and vacate my
place of residence. Tuition money
for the term and all the work ac-
complished would be void. Then I
could come back Spring Term. If
the lightest suspension was ap-
plied. If not it could be a long
time before I could enroll again.

Have I got your attention yet? I
should because Social Probation
was given to a student very re-
cently for “acting improperly in a
volatile situation.” In other words
the guy got into a fight.

A student forum was held in
October to talk about the SJC and

suspension

“the -Blue- Book.-' Fewer than ten

students attended. For you math
geniuses out there that is less than
one percent of our students.

There are a lot of issues in the
Blue Book that we need to under-
stand. Go to the Web sight on the
W&L homepage under studentac-
tivities, look it up, read it, get to
know it, so when people ask you
your opinion on keeping the pro-
ceeding confidential, much like
the EC you can tell them what you
think. There is even a convenient
way to send your comments di-
rectly to the SCC.

lfthis does pass in March we as
a student body will have to elect
justices to the Council, as well as
a secretary and a chair. We need
to know as muchas we can before
that election, so we elect people
who will approach the power given
to the SJC with the proper respect
and understanding.

Dean of Students, David L.
Howison has promised than an-
other forum will be held before
the March faculty vote. He also
said the forum will be well publi-
cized. We need to show up at this
forum, we as a student body need
to know what is going on. This is
not a small issue that won’t affect
many people. This is huge.

In an interview for The Tri-
dent, SCC Senior Representative,
Sasha Hartman intimated that the
SJC could become as influential
as the EC. I agree and I think that
before we give them that power
we as a student body need to let
the faculty know what we think
about it.

 

 

 

JANUARY 27, 1997

,d

w&1ife

PAGE 3

Remembering he Assimila ion Commil

  

 

time all depended on whether
we won Homecoming, which
we never did,” remembers Mer-
chant. “If you got in trouble,
then you had to wear a yellow
beanie. Kind of reminds you of
Hitler.”

“There were boxes set up all
over campus where students
could put complaints. If you
didn’t wear your coat and tie to
go uptown on Sunday to get a
paper, you might get a com-
plaint filed against you,” said
John. “It was a lot like ‘Big
Brother is Watching You.”’

By the late ’60’s, the mood
of the nation, and the campus,
had changed. “When I left in
’6l, everyone was in coat and
tie. When I came back in ’70,
you were lucky ifthe guys wore
trousers to class,” said Mer-

‘ chant. “I think everyone was

trying to conform to not-con-
forming.”

“Ithinkthestudent body still
believed in the W&L’s tradi-
tions. They just didn’t want to
be forced into them” said John.

“At the time, I think they
thought it was necessary to
bond the freshmen to the
community,” said Merchant.
“But I think we’ve moved be-
yond that now.”

Photo courtesy of Calyx

Say, that beanie looks swell:

Up until the late- 1960’s, all W&L freshmen were
required to wear either blue or yellow beanies.
As depicted here, the unofficial (but enforced)
dress code included a tie, slacks, and coat.

“Star Wars” returns with bigger bangs

 

W
K
BY B_]_ WALKER tee wasastudentgroup,Ithink
PHI STAFF WRITER appointed by the E.C., to
' enforce the student traditions,
especially for the freshmen,
“Aw hell, they’re not going independent from the faculty,”
to try to bring that thing back, said Politics Professor Lewis
‘ are they?” Such were the senti- John (’59). “They were spe-
ments of University Historian cifically concerned with the
Holt Merchant (’61) when speakingtradition,buttheyalso
asked about the Assimilation keptthe freshmenoffthe grass.
Committee. Back then, freshmen weren’t
' Until it was dissolved in the allowed to walk on the grass at
late 1960’s, the Assimilation anytime.”
Committee was charged with The Committee also en-
protecting the University’s forced the strict freshman-
traditions, official and beanie policy.
3 unofficial. “All freshmen had to wear
“The Assimilation Commit- blue beanies. The length of
I’
I
R
Photo courtesy of Calyx
The 1960 Assimilation Committee, pictured
here, would have been responsible for
I maintaining the school's traditions.
’4
BY KATHRYN MARYURNIK
PHI STAFF WRFTER
!

According to a recent article in
Newsweek, twenty years ago two
close friends made a bet over who

' was going to undertake a movie
project. Steven Spielberg “won” and
drew the high nurpber. The “Ioser,”

George Lucas, drew the low.number ..

and made “Star Wars.” ‘\  .

The movie that no one wanted to
make grossed $134 million in the
United States alone by the end ofthe
summer of 1977. The grand total for
at the trilogy worldwide was $1.3
billion.

1

“Star Wars” was more than just a
money-making success. True, it did
gross more money than ever dreamed
possible at the time. Its success with
young people and the toy industry
changed the face ofthe movie indus-
try forever. But, above all, it was
one of the things that defined our
childhood.

“I think it struck a creative bone

in all of us as kids,” sophomore Doug

Peddle said. “One of my most vivid
childhood memories was playing
with my brother for hours mixing
and matching our GI Joe and Go Bot
vehicles with our Star Wars figures.”

Some of our generation looked up
to the characters.

“I wanted to be Princess Lea,”
said junior Melody Andreola. ‘‘I
used to braid my hair like hers all the
time.”

Everyone will get the chance to
relive their childhood when “Star
Wars” is re-released to the theaters
Friday, January 31, nearly twenty
years afterits first release. Lucasfilm
spent $15 million restoring the mas-
ter prints and adding 4.5 minutes of
additional computer generated foot-
age.

‘The official “Star Wars Special
Edition” web site outlines some in-
teresting changes in the movie:

— Obi Wan’s house has been re-
modeled.

— There are more ambient sound
effects throughout the film, adding
to its realism.

The web site alsolists somethings
that could have been changed but
were not: .

— Luke still yells “Carrie!” after
returning to Yavin.

— Lucasfilm forgot to color in

Va,der’s saber after he kills Obi‘-‘Wan. ;

(.jT§jIey failed-to do this in the original
as well.)

“The Empire Strikes Back” returns
to the big screen February 21. “The
Return ofthe Jedi” follows on March 7.
To find more interesting tidbits about
the re-releases, check out the web site:
http://www.starwars.com.

WLUR plans a semester featuring more music

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Students who tune into WLUR
this semester will discover that a
few changes have been made at
their campus radio station. In or-
der to improve listeners’ enjoyment
of the station, student dj’s have
been encouraged to talk less and to
play more music.

Charles Carabello, Editor of
WLUR, feels that some former stu-
dent dj’s have talked too much on
the air, especially about them-
selves.

In order to remedy the situation,
Carabello has asked the directors

of the station’s different musical
genres to encourage their own dj’s
to reserve airtime for more perti-
nent information.

“It is my hope that each of the
directors would talk it over with
their own dj’s,” Carabello com-
mented. “We would like people to
tell the time, the weather, and the
last couple of songs.”

In addition, the station’s morning
shows now feature more local, na-
tional, and sports news.

Carabello empathizes with stu-
dent dj’s who want to talk on the
air.

“I understand that they may be
thinking, ‘Wow, cool, I’m on the
air,”’ Carabello stated. Carabello

adds that he also understands that
student dj’s may want to entertain
their friends by being humorous
and verbose on the air.

However, Carabello would like
the dj’s to conduct themselves in a
manner which contributes to the
listeners’ enjoyment of the shows.

Carabello concedes that the deci-
sion of how much to talk on the air
remains in the hands of the dj’s.
Carabello would be unwilling to fire
students who fail to comply with the
suggestions of their managers.

“You can’t do that, unless you’re
paying people, which we’re not,”
Carabello commented. “I can’t ask
volunteers to conform to how I want
the station to run,”

    

Photo by Sam Levine

WLUR plans to play more
music during winter term.

Crutches offer urliquei/iew of ball

BY ANDREA EWING
PH1 FEATURES EDITOR

I hate crutches.

I had the wonderful op-
portunity to attend Washing-
ton and Lee Law School’s
Barrister’s Ball Friday night.

The catch - I hobbled in
on crutches.

Most people eat dinner

«with their dates before a

function, so my friend Becca
and I cooked dinner for ours
early in the evening. Every-
thing was just fine.

Tip: If possible, avoid any
activity you would not gen-
erally particiapte in before
attending a formal function.

I, of course, did not fol-
low my own advice. I went
to perform with the Rebelles
at halftime of the basketball

game, where I gracefully dis-
located my left knee in a
freak accident. ( I swear
someone greased the floor!)

I left my date, Josh, at
7:30 walking like any nor-
mal human, and the next time
he saw me my accessories
included not only matching

. earrings and necklace but a

new pair of very fashionable
Calvin Klein crutches
(bought especially to go with
the dress).

We drove to Moody Hall
for two reasons: 1) it was
already the plan and 2) there
was no way in hell I was
going to walk. I managed to
conquerthe steps and arrived
in the main lobby. (Inciden-
tally, wet stone stairs and
crutches do not mix.)

Matt, Becca’s date, took
my coat to the coat room and

returned with a wheel chair. 1
He and Kendra, another
member of our party, tried to

be helpful.
“We’ll wheel you
around,” they said. I had

tried to be as unobtrusive as
possible when I came in, and
now a wheel chair was pre-
sented to me.

Politely refusing, I said I
wanted to be able to get
around on my own. I had a
feeling members of my en-
tourage might be drinking,
and being wheeled by people
who had one too many screw-
drivers did not seem in my
best interest.

The band, Liquid Plea-
sure, was great and everyone
seemed to be having a really
good time.

I even made a major dis-
covery— standing in one

A " "».'2.I_'...ZI.4..._.§.T .‘..L.I'.'.I . . t.. .1"

place with all my weight on
my right leg and swaying in
time to the music looks a
little like dancing. Actually,
it looks a lot like W&L stu-
dents dancing. I am sure
Josh appreciated the effort.

Two open bars allowed for
those accompanying me to par-
take. lwas mighty tempted, but
then I thought, not only am I
wearing heels but I am also on
crutches. Alcohol would just
be stupid. While considering
this, I sipped a rum and coke.

I became well known as I
hobbled from location to loca-
tion.

“There goes Crutchy,” I
overheard one party goer say. I
also received many compli-
ments on my determination to
have a good time.

Another tip: You get loads
ofsympathy ifyou are injured.

3...".-L.'...'."'... {;.T._'3.‘ ;I...'. .Z’.. ;.'.."'_,..'. . .. . .'

Milk it for all it’s worth.

The time arrived for us to
leave, but before we could
do so a rather inebriated
young lady asked if her boy-
friend could borrow my
wheelchair. I assume she
had seen it offered to me
when I arrived. Naturally, I
told her he could have a
grand ole time with it.

The evening was not only
interesting, but also offered
many challenges. I became
adept at dancing on one leg,
maneuvering on wet stairs, and
being generally sociable while
looking like a gimp.

I can only offer one conclu-
sion after this experience:
Crutches suck, but if you must
have them, use them to your
advantage (i.e. look pitiful and
people will wait on you hand
and foot).

“The Relic”: good, old-
fashioned monster-y ‘un

xhﬁ /2 of

4 stars;
entertaining
schlock

The pitch:
“lt’lI be like
‘Jurassic
Park’ in
‘The Fly.”’

BY ALEX CHRISTENSEN
PHI MovIE CRITIC

Peter Hyams isn’t a very good director. He’ll probably
always be known for turning “20l0: The Year We Make
Contact,” the sequel to the admittedly overblown, yet wildly
provocative science fiction landmark “200l: A Space
Odyssey” from Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C. Clarke, into
what looked like a poor made-for-television melodrama.
Then he did a stint as the foremost interpreter of that
hauntingly mysterious Belgian, Jean-Claude Van Damme.
Hey, Capra had his Jimmy Stewart, Fellini had his
Mastroianni, Hyams had his Van Damme.

Well, Van Damme’s moved on to the Hong Kong action
émigrés, and Hyams has apparently moved on to big-budget
monster movies, with not altogether uninspiring results.

I can’t go so far as to say that “The Relic” is the new
“Jaws” or anything like that, but if you’re in the mood for a
monster movie, it should certainly fit that bill rather satisfy-
ingly. The story, which doesn’t matter much, is that this
Indiana Jones-type researcher in South America stumbles
upon a tribe which worships a sort ofa demon god. He sends
back an idol, or “relic,” along with some funny leaves

which have less than salutary effects when they come
in contact with living creatures, more of which later.

For some reason, he decides that he shouldn’t really
send them then, so since he can’t get them off the boat,
which is already leaving, he instead stows away on
board for the ride back to Chicago.

Meanwhile, back in Chicago, shapely science girl
Margo Green (Penelope Ann Miller) gets the shipment,
which, oddly, was finally delivered by a boat ALL OF THE
OCCUPANTS OF WHICH HAD BEEN DECAPITATED
AND DEPRIVED OF THEIR HYPOTHALAMUSES!
Okay, okay, some of y’all out there don’t like spoilers, but
that’s really not a spoiler. The point ofthe movie is to see the
gore and the big monster, known as the Kothoga. So it
probably won’t matter also ifl tell you that the monster is the

~ scientist morphed into a monster by the funny leaves. I

figured it out the minute he got on the boat, and that happens
during the opening credits.

Digital monsters have a shady track record, but this one
performs rather well, largely because Hyams doesn’t show
it too early or too much, and photographs it mostly in
darkness. This is the only competent directorial decision he
has made.

The dialogue in this movie isjust awful. And to hearthem
coming out of the mouths of usually competent actors like
Miller, Tom Sizemore, Linda Hunt and James Whitmore is
alternately hilarious and depressing. The plot is thin and
implausible, and when “Dr.” Margo Green finally figures
out that the researcher guy who sent the stuff home is the
monster and is surprised, you’ll want to slap her upside the
screen.

Nevertheless, I have to say that the monster is worth it. If
you like to see people getting eaten, their heads ripped off
and hypothalamuses sucked, this movie is a must. Sure, it’s
cheesy, stupid, poorly plotted and thought out, and even
annoying to watch with all of the flashlights Hyams insists
on pointing directly at the camera blinding you constantly,
but in the end, it’s a good chuckle and a half.

 

Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures
These ﬂashlights will be enough
to protect us:

“The Relic” offers good slasher fun for
horror fans and Kothoga alike.

 

Hunting for a house mate:

Happy residents of Greater Lex turn to
campus message boards to find roommates
or swapping opportunities.

 

 

 

    

   

. Av . . h
Generals in action this week:    Last week's results:
MBAsnrraAu.- Wednesday at Hampden-Sydney. 7:30 p.m.; MBIIsn.-I-nAu.- L, 79.6;;_ vs, B,-tdgewater
............. ::;:;::i.:‘ .G.“.::‘;.=:.°.:-..”.‘?..*;-’;.'~... "~~—=r~~-- »  a«  
Thursday vs. RMWC.  p.m-.: H Mswummh L‘ 9923‘ Vs‘ J°h“s H°pkms‘
Saturday at Guufoni 5:00 pVm. L. 85-36. VS. Emory (at UNC-Chapel Hllll 
SWDIIIING - Frlday vs. Sewanee. 7:00 p.m. wS"““‘“'° ' W. 150-74. vs. Radford;
Saturday vs. Mary Washington. 2:00 p.m. L,93.25. vs, Johns Hopkins;
WIu:s1'I.ING - Saturday at Urslnus Quadrangular. Il:00 a.m. L. 38_30V VSV Emory (at UNC_Chapel Hm)
PAGE 4 BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INI)ooR TRACK JANUARY 27, 1 997 ,
' S rt t   ’ t I th h "cl
Inter po s eams s rugg e roug mi -season slumps
¥
The men’s team lost 99-23 to wins in the meet. Freshman Other highlights forthctcam Basketball ‘ -L- A ‘ T:   * A
  Johns Hopkins and 86-36 to Natasha Sedlock prevailed in includedathird place finish for   " _ I '
' Emor ,whilethewomen’steam the 200 free in 2:11.10 and the so homore Natasha Dorofeeva Emor an
l'OUgll time on fell93,-25 to Hopkins and 88-30 500 free in 5:49.94, while fel- inpthe 800 and a solid fourth Washing)t]on(i1iI{(ienIr.Z: 2:’:']((;ll(1:'ld6iiE:
. to Emory. lowfreshman Stanleytriumphed place for frosh Jill Kosch in the baskethaii team a hard 77_6t ’
Court’   For the men, Nathan Hottle In the 50 free in 25.39 and the 55—meterdash. roadtessoh SamrdayV The Lady .
ledVthe team with second place 100 fly in 1:03.93. _ Generate trailed 33_2g at the
BY BETHANY BAUMAN. finishes In three differentevents Hoehl_won,the 100 back and Wrestling half and were even able to pull
SCOTT BOOKWALTER AND during the meet. A Brooke 200backintimesof1:05.50.and V within 3 early in the second.
JEREMY MCNAMEE Stanley victory in the 50 free 2:22.05, respectively, and jun- This past weekend the Gcn- But the wasps went on a 16-3
and a Margaret Hoehl triumph Ior Taryn Kiekow took the 100 erals hosted the 20th Annual run on their way to the Victory, ‘I
PH; SPORTS STAFF inthe 500 free provided the wins free in 59.87 and the 200 fly in Washington and Lee Wrestling sophomore eenter Amber
for the women. 2:35.34. _ Invitational. VWashington and Hinkie ted the way for the Gen-
_ _ The women’s With its 1-2 week, the Jefferson contInuedVtheIrdomi- erals with 18points_ Freshman
Swimming  gYWmV_  team had much bet- women’s team’s record stands nance, taking the title for the guardjcssica Morton added 17.
_  , tersuccess Wednes- at 7-4. One more victory will third straight year. The Generaiaare new 5_t00Ver_ ’
After breaking out "‘ day evening against give the Generals -eight wins for Washington and Leescnttwo an and 3-8 in the Qtd Dominion
to quickstartsthis sea- Radford. The Gen- the fifth consecutive season. wrestlers to the finals. Fresh- Athietie C0nferenCe_ The
son, the Washington erals bounced The two losses for the men man Chad Casto took second women wit] host Lynehhtrrg on
and Lee swimming Radford, 150.-74}, drops their record to 6-3. place at 126 pounds. Fellow Tuesday at 7:00 pm in the
teams had their mo- <59 \ and won all 11 indi- , ’ frosh Alex McManimen had warner Center_
mentum slowed Satur- vidual events and Women S Track another great tournament asthe The rnen’steam atsestrffered !
day at UNC-Chapel both relays in the runner up at 177. ‘ a hard toss this weekend’ drop-
Hill,wherebothteams process. On Saturday January 25th, Senior co-captain Adam ping Friday’5 home game to

were saddled with a

pair of losses in the tri-meet. Generals picked up a pair of

Four different

 wonjlnd deser
‘.V‘intheNFLthrongh ' ' I

 

 .arrd.:tie' ﬁrstteam wtasfplace
” constantly on the move

r Bay because .the' tearnjis
effect, its fans.P.lf._the'§N,

 But while most,off_tVhe'§
and the-sentimentality.-1 .

imback in its placet*f_birt th to

V r  ‘ac sedopcrationsjtomorrow, a,
sense of;cIoSure‘wou_ld hay; I beerrplrovidcd. I  ’ V . 1
edi‘Ifd_wells _on the Cheeseheads V
.‘Gréen.Bay area, it is easy to

 

  
 
   
  
   
   

  

n ansra ‘frt:u‘z¢"hi“s‘ejs are 1 
ers“w'ill' nevereleavei Greene.
‘?.;.by the community,‘ and in -

the Generals ran in the Lebanon
Valley Invitational. Senior stal-

Branson nailed down a third
place finish at 134.

Bridgewater College, 79-63.
Junior Kelly Dyer led the team

 

TRUSTEES from page 2

Then the I_.et’s-Make-Everyone’ s-Life-
A-Living-Hell Office, a.k.a. the Regis-
trar, had the job of adding all of those
Ebonics courses (which, of course, filled
up before 8 a.m. Monday) to the on-line
catalog (http://www.wlu/registrars/
my.cat/567541.q6914.13/
the.south.will.rise.again/Ebonics.html).

To further W&L’s new politically-cor-
rect stance, the Board promptly ended
W&L’s normal observation of Martin
Luther King, meaning that in the coming

for the day, they also eliminated funding
for the Liberty Hall Volunteers, which cut
down on the number of people dressed in
Confederate uniforms dancing around the

D—Hall.

And then I woke up! Whoa! Weird,
eh? Left-wingers taking over the school?
Communes instead of frat houses? As I
ran to class that morning, I was relieved to
see that all of us were still wearing stack-
heeled penny loafers or blue blazers. All
the professors were still old and white.
We still had the Honor System. We were

  

 

wart Nat Messmore took first The Generals finished sixth in scoring with 19 points_ The l
place and LVisaVBrcnnan finished out ofseven teams at the tourna— Generals fail to 2-13 on the sea-
a strong third in the 1500. The merit. They Wlll next \vrestlc at son, 1-8 in the ODAC_ The men
4x200 relay was also victorI- the Ursinus Quadrangulai‘ Sat- wiiibeontheroad to Hampden_ _ .
OuS_ UrdayV S dne on Wed d Publicity Photo
3' 3' “C5 33" Sophomore Chrissy Burghardt looks to pass inside.
I 1
C I I I I
» ommereials hlghllghll another NFC VlClIOI‘y
I v
' ' The one Super Bowl tradition that copier that makes real beer from paper anything.” He also deserves mention for
   2/Ihlways lives up to its billing is Madison pictures of Bud Light. lt’Il even make a donating his earnings from the commer-
venue’s Super Bowl—thecommercials. six-pack! 2. The power company’s ger— cial to charity.
    So, for the second year, here is the unof— bil needinginspiration from aBudweiser. A
flCllal poll of W&L’s favorite eommer- 3. Pepsi’s adolescent bears dancing to BEST PHILOSOPHICAL AD:
cia s: “YMCA.” 4. Pepsi having Darth Vader Budweiser. We finally know the answer
LAGE NOM A1 use “the force” to drink a kid’s Pepsi, to why the chicken crossed the road.
 ». " . A BEST AD CAMPAIGN: Wh't th f’ h h h ' h I’ ht b .
viany‘ Svxin e§:2:he}:?E;?.u§1‘ : BY JASON ZACHER surprise——-Pepsi. If they could onlydgezl en 1g H 6 Us er W“ lg Sa as MOST UNEXPECTED AD: Holi-
= ‘  er  , V   V more people to buy their product. The WORST AD CAMPAIGN: Dirt day Inn and the sex change. They made
 " ’ ' Another Super Bowl, another NFC insane amount of money they gave to Devil. Fred Astaireis rollinginhisgrave over more than just their hotels. F
victory. This year there was a little more LucasFilms to use the Star Wars charac- with avacuum company using him to hoe
reason to watch. After all, the Patriots ters paid off in the ads. products. THIS AD IS SUPPOSED TO
had Bill Parcells, winner of two Super HONORABLE MENTION: 1. MAKE ME BUY SOMETHING?
Bowls—how could they lose? Even Nissan. Though they only had twoadsin WORST AD SLOGAN: Pepsi, AWARD: Fila. HavingJerryStackliouse
Pareells’ magic could not whip the AFC the entire game, “ G e n e r a t i o n bouncing all overaconstruction site does
curse. TheAFChaslostthelast13 Super they lived up to NeXt.” Have not really make me want to buy their
Bowls. theexpectations their pollsters shoes. Maybe I just know their shoes
. The Packers won behind M_VP they have cre- c o m p I e t e I y won’tenable meto repeatthe feat. Heck,
Desmond Howard. The former lVllC|l'll- ated for them- missed the fact there isn’tashoe that can make me dunk.
gan Wolverine became the first special selves. The that our genera-
teams player to win the MVP trophy— Japanese guy tion is tryino as BESTADIDEA: Honda CR-V. The it
with good reason too. Howard set two and the “Dogs hard as we czi>n to car driving through the day’s paper and
records, one for most return yards in a like trucks” slo- dropthe“Genera- influencing the events had a Forrest
SuperBowl,and anotherforlongestkick- gan really make tion X” label? I Gump-esque quality to it.
offreturn (a 99 yard explosion thatkilled you remember like “The choice
the(I))iitengztISrin:Cinf:i)gl:i()Reggie White’s   i)‘i)r2i”nrhvo/regenCra- 1 IEEST USE OF  n
. I . . rman eeny, epsi rin or or
first championship at any level in any frogs are gone, Life.” I’d beaPepsidrinker too ifthose
sport, his three sacks, and seven hurries victims ofa Jus— BESTSHOW three were standing outside my mater-
'P’ BD Bld‘.Jh 'D LG:F’ ' .
I  I <°J  - El:/%2z1lilTIlSt3tn’:t2ll)(§lSC(€2: for Isl://P l:’aScCl)<(i:rs(OI3  ‘I‘)l(ihJ0ofthe l(I)i)l(l  mt)2vl-llO(l\lORABLEMENT'ON' Baked
. -- I H ' ’ . . . , . . I .0 . 7 ' . . ‘ ‘
YV-“W°".‘—,9f:=C1¢V?'8F“l;: Brett Favre finished with two passing However, their making fun of all Lay’s Miss Piggy hogs the Baked Lay’s. ‘
 ., ..°<2‘“~.<='1..<.’«S=\."...<..*.."!€iI.t.=1.t;<=—.' touchdowns and another rushing. take-offof“The the end zone
mesa ‘W8 idé''ré‘;3.¢l,Ve~r.f9r_, , Sowhy did youwatchthe Super Bowl? Gods Must be dances and howit
The Packers were a 14-point favorite,the Crazy,”thereal- insults the The game is finally over, the hype is
Patsieswereplaying,andtheDallasCow- life copier, and “intellegence of finally over, the money has been doled
boy Cheerleaders were not even there. the alien desig- the fan.” “What out and the AFC needs to return to the hp
Not to mention, John Madden announc- nated driver are you, partofthe drawing board and try to find a formula
ing the game. picked up right game or the half- that can defeat the NFC.
This year, he followed in the tradition where they left off. time show?” Too bad the commercials With Parcells makingapossible move
of grasping onto something completely are funnier than the show. to thelets, maybe a return ofJoe Namath
stupid and runningwithituntilthe end of BEST AD: Nissan’s Pigeon attack could helpthem (that or divineinterven— A
the telecast. Who really cared about how squad. Everyone I watched the game MY NEW JOB IS...: Bob Dole. His tion). The Lombardi Trophy returns to "
well the exhaust system was working? with thought this was the funniest ad in Visa checkcard commercial showed off Lombardi’s team and Titletown, Green
Madden is the reason why the mute years. some of his comedic talents that were Bay—the only team without an owner.
,..... ..t.,..,,t,,.,,,,,,,, button was invented. HONORABLE MENTION: 1. The hidden duringthe campaign. “lcan’twin Suddenly all seems right with football.
¥

   

  Meii’s Swimming  

Vﬁjforget thcother side. There hasibeen‘ nothing but badluck for -
 fans of Boston-area teamst. fB,ruiVnls’and Celtics are mired
' j}.‘lif1‘m<’-di00Fily‘s the Red VSo,x,hz'iv”en.’t won a World Serieslsincc I
7’ 19l8_3I1d ill? P8tYi0_tS..haV_c »ne_tj/er won a title in their history, V
_-gfallingtwicein SuperBowlsheld_ at the LiouisianaSupcrdome.
{That is a shame for such’ a sports-minded town like Boston,
“ and it is h€trd.not to fceifor these fans.‘   ; 2 * ’ .
 9 Butthe. Patriots may be hard-pressed to duplicate their
 ‘success next season. It appearsthat Bill Parcells has coached
Qliis last game in New England and the Patriotswill dearly miss
.=him.IParce1ls is deﬁnitely one of bestV_coaches of all time, s
 ~particulaIly_when it comes to defense,‘althou‘gh you haveito

.. question his sanity to consider coaching a team like the Jets.
I The new coach, whether it will be 49ers defensive coordina-
*j'-tVorV_Pete Carroll or someone else, will need to continue to get
  an average defense to overachicve forthc Patriots to contend.

  . As for the plight of_t_he AFC, l')CliCVClI0l’.l'10t,lllC AFC has
«. ‘closed the gap withlthe NFC. AFC teams won the combined
g, season‘ series with NFC teams, and overall, the AFC is
 stronger and deeper than the NFC. But while the AFC
;-[features teams like New England, Pittsburgh, Denver, Buf-
-:' falo, Kansas City and Jacksonville which are about on the

 

still Washington and LEE. The nirvana
persists.

ti“, i
ng atrliguiévhardiiig summer job?

._  omen S SW1HRIKh1ﬂg 2  m

 acres of southern V" _ V V ,   ». V . .9‘

" it wilderness area. We v v I i ii

If you are available  restflliing
from approximates] . .-. _ a — 1. . inber, we would . j . V _ i
like to talk wit vu aout the possibility of working with us this _ ’ I ‘ * I *
summer. The manager, Bob Howe, will be interviewing on campus ‘

February 5. To arrange an interview or get an application, check at

the Career Development Office. Questions? Call (303) 8384950 or e-

mail us at abararanch@aol.com.

Are you interested in a career in business?
Get your foot in the door. _
The P/I/S business staff is hiring.

year we would do more than just observe
it go by. Not only did they cancel classes

 
  

  
    
  
  
  

is on 140,000
national fored

Wyoming. surroun s
have openings in Va

  

   

Calling all sports fans! ,
We need uour bodu!
The Phi Sports Section needs
writers, photographers and

1V; same level, the NFC still contains the dominant teams in l h t  t it
Green Bay, San Francisco, Dallas and maybe Carolina. The - - - Ohl]OI’l€ e se W 0 IS WI Ing 0
*gap may beelosing, but until an AFC team rises to the next 'A‘?V5'm5’_"9 Assistants lend a hand V
‘ level, it will be the same old, same old in the Super Bowl. lCll'CUIc'll'l0I7 MBHBQEFS '
.  . V;So_Packers fans, enjoy the view at the top and memorize _Ad Cotnposl-U-onArtl-st-5 Call Be than” at 463_-71 1 1 or gﬁj-Em
the slogan in the Old Milwaukee commercial. But take heart, . .
at 462-4650 If Interested. '

. diehard Patriots fans (like Higz), for your title will eventually

_ acme Someday; ’ For more information, call Anne Alvord at X4631.

 

