i 1

5

elcome

 U113 ‘i’tiitB~tum lﬁlii

Parents

 

JAMF3  LE‘/Fsl}F?tl l.lBF?ARY

Li:‘.\’i;~lL& l'Ql*.l, tr}, 3”“;

J VOLUME 9S, NUMBER 9

1

 

Judges hear moot court cases

A panel of three judges from the U.S. Court of Appeals for
_ the Fourth Circuit will sit to hear arguments of four cases on

7 Nov. 1, in the Moot Courtroom of the Washington and Lee
: University School of Law.

“The Fourth Circuit visit will be a wonderful educational

':'opportunity for the law students,” said Joan Shaughnessy,
: professor of law and associate dean of the law school. ”The

arguements will give students an opportunity to compare their

K oral advocacy practice training with actual appellate advo-
cacy.
. The four cases, two ofwhich are criminal and two civil, will
be heard in the law school’s Moot Courtroom, beginning at 9
a.m. The court arguments are open to the public.

Author D’Souza speaks on racism

_ . Dinesh D’Souza, author of The End ofRacism, will speak
at Lee Chapel on Oct.'30 at 7 p.m. D’Souza believes that the

- goals of liberal education are lost and freedoms of speech and

thought are imperiled. In his books, he has explored the history,
nature, and future of racism and argues that today’s civil rights

-establishment fuels much of the current American obsesion
‘With race because it has a vested interest in perpetuating black
dependency.

The speech, sponsored by Contact and Young America’s
Foundation, is free and open to the public. There will be a
reception in the University Center’s Fairfax Lounge immedi-
ately following the talk.

Horseman on the Roof at Troubadour

The next presentation of the W&L Film Society will be a tale
of adventure and romance, The Horseman on the Roof (France,
1996), directed by Jean—Paul Rappeneau.

The Horseman on the Roof, reputed to be the bi ggest-bud get
French ﬁlm of all time, was adapted from the novel by Jean
Giono. The story has two main currents. In Provence, in the
1830s, Italian political exhiles are being pursued by Austrian
agents who want to prevent the Italian patriots from returning
to Italy and troubling the Austrian rulers there. Also, at the time
in Provence, an epidemic of cholera rages, killing thousands.
Moving through this doubly dangerous world are a young

Italian revolutionary (Olivier Martinez_)‘_and.v_2i1__y_o_irrig_French M

aristocrat (Juliette Binoche).

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
Oct. 25 and 26, in the Troubadour Cinema. There is no charge
for admission, through contibutions are welcome. This film is
in French, with English subtitles.

Guild presents London Orchestra

The Concert Guild will present the London Chamber Or-
chestra on Oct. 28, at 8 p.m. at the Lenfest Center. The London
Chamber Orchestra is the oldest of its kind in Great Britain and
has appeared at Europe’s most renowned music centers.
Founded in 1921, the orchestra has given over 100 world
premieres of works by Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Ravel, Debussy,
Poulenc, Messiaen, and Mozart.

For information and reservations call the Lenfest Center
Box Office at 463-8000.

Lecture on Jewish art and architecture

Ori Soltes, director and head curator of the National Jewish
Museum in Washington, D.C., will give an illustrated slide
lecture on Oct. 24 at 7:30 p.m. at duPont Auditorium.

The lecture, titled “Between Two Worlds: Jewish Art and
Architecture in the Middle Ages,” is sponsored by the depart-
' ment of religion through the Max and Sylvia Weinstein Fund.
The public is invited to attend.

Alumnus shares views on environment

‘ W&L graduate James Kahn, an environmental economist at

' Oak Ridge National Laboratory and professor of economics at
the University of Tennessee, will give his lecture “Demything
the Relations between the Environment and the Economy” in
Northern Auditorium on Oct. 24 at 7 p.m. The public is invited
to attend.

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 26, .1996

l

“ls your room always this clean ?” “What do you usually do on weekends?”

Activities provide entertainment for parents

BY ANDREA EwiNo
PHI STAFF WRITER

_ Everyone run for your lives, your parents and
Siblings are here for the weekend. If this prospect is
one that you will be living for the next three days, you
might want to know what activities will be available this
weekend for “parent sitting.”

Friday morning is parent registration at 9:00 a.m. in
Fairfax Lounge. If you plan to allow your parents to
follow you to class, registration will be open until 5:00
p.m. For adventurous souls, caricature artists, spon-
sored by Student Activities, will be happy to provide a
rendering of your visage beginning at 4:00 p.m.

Several departments will provide parents a chance to
socialize with faculty . The Journalism Department will
be sponsoring an Open House in Reid Hall from 2-4
p.m. Professor Hampden Smith, head of the Journalism
Department, said, “It is an opportunity for students to
show their parents around the lab. We began doing this
last year and we were mobbed. The faculty is looking
forward to the parents coming.”

The Williams School of Commerce, Economics,
and, Politics is also hosting a Reception and Open
House for parents and students Friday afternoon from
3:30-4:30 p.m. ’

‘Later in the evening, President John Elrod and his
wife Mimi will open the doors of Lee House to welcome
Freshmen and their parents. Gaines Hall will welcome
parents of residents with a wine and cheese reception in
the Gatehouse at 4:00 pm.

On Friday afternoon and Saturday morning times

will be provided for parents to meet with professors on
a ore on one basic with in/'IixvI,J....l _,.,.A:..........i am...
provided by each member of the faculty.

Dr. David Novack of the Sociology Department
commented, “We as a department do not provide any-
thing formal for the parents, but each faculty member
provides appointment times to speak with parents.
Parents Weekend provides an opportunity for parents to
visit the institution and meet with individual faculty.”

For parents of students enrolled in chemistry classes,
or parents who wish to relive their college chemistry
class, the chemistry department is holding a seminar at
5:00 p.m. in the new Science Center room A 114. This
will be followed by students’ presentations of summer

R.E. Lee Research Projects in chemistry.
After one survives the chemistry lec-
ture, it is time to experience some culture.
The Theatre Department is presenting is
presenting Dan Tipton’s senior thesis
P7019“, The Importance of Being Ear-
nest Friday night at 9:00 p.m. in the
Johnson Theatre of the Lenfest Center.
If you have late dinner reservations,
another show will be presented Saturday
afternoon and Saturday night, Director
Al Gordon says of the play, “Nowhere in
comic literature is there a play which is
more fun to encounter. It never lags. It
never descends from its high comic and
stylistic tone. It never fails to delight
audiences.”

Saturday begins another full day with
numerous opportunities to bond with your
parents. You can escape to the Blue
Ridge for a picnic and an opportunity to
experience the fall colors with the Par-
ents and Students Day Hike sponsored by
the Outing Club. Anyone who wishes to
attend should call S.R. Evans in advance
at 462-4066. A raincoat, warm sweater,
hiking ‘boots, and an appreciation for
nature is recommended.

On The Hill, the Report of Deans
concerning “Academic and Student Life
at Washington and Lee” will be held in
the Williams School room 237 at 10:00 a.m. Following,
‘P:f<?S1t.iﬂ<ft1At~Jt)‘h1ri1Eqlr‘od will address‘ parents in his Report
your parents to attend these events, you’ll have a super
opportunity to sleep late.

In the afternoon, between getting your parents to take
you to Wal-mart and Kroger for a shopping spree, try to
attend the football game Saturday afternoon at 2:00 p.m.
against University of the South. The women’s and
men’s soccer teams will also be competing on Saturday
as well as the volleyball team.

Freshmen’s parents should not miss the University
Chorus and Chamber Singers concert on Friday evening
at 9:00 in Lee Chapel. The university acapella groups
Southern Comfort, Jubilee, and General Admission will

‘P oto courtesy of The Calyx

On Saturday, parents will have the opportunity to
enjoy gourmet food provided by Dining Services at a
luncheon on the Front Lawn.

also be performing. Freshman Jubilee member Eliza-

beth Slonakersaid, “I am looking forward to lenino mv
Friday and Saturday, and they will be attending both.”

Professors are looking forward to Parents Weekend
as well. For new philosophy professorlack Wilson, this
will be his first Parents Weekend experience at Wash-
ington and Lee. At previous schools he has attended,
students’ parents did not come to Parents Weekend
much less attend classes; however, he feels this is an
excellent opportunity for parents to see that they are
getting their money’s worth. “It is great that parents get
to see what students are doing. I like Parents Weekend
and I hope parents will participate in class. I’m sure they
will ask questions.”

BY B.J. WALKER
PHI STAFF WRITER

W&L fam:i’tly w“é"’fbomes
new members to faculty

Chorus, department of music.
In addition, the following have re-
ceived tenure-track appointments be-

\»*«'.-.:3i~‘-:‘r:\-7-Wew  :..s.r umvsasirv

act 2 5 1995*“

 

«c

F OPINION

‘is character a viable political issue? Greenland
comes under attack by the humorless masses.
page 2

5 FEATURES

The cast of Earnest brings Wilde to the Lenfest
Center. Nirvana lets loose with a live item.

¢Woods Creek Grocery returns with a new line of

A

 

hot meals. page 3

P SPORTS

page 8

 

Photo by David Daves

This years’ Women’s Rush will begin with Rush Registration on
November 3 at 8 p.m. in the Great Hall of the Science Center.

Outlook for Greek Rush
positive despite changes

BY Liz DETTER
PHI STAFF WRITER

“Washingon and Lee is a big Greek
school.” So says the Princeton Review.
Here at W&L, we have one of the largest
Greek scenes in the country, with 65% of
women in sororities and 80% of men in
fraternities. Greek life is an ingrained
part ofW&Ltradition,butthisyearsome
traditions have been changed, and new
ones are being started.

This year, for the first time ever, men’s
and women s rush will occur simulta-
neouslv during the first week of, Winter

BY KATHRYN MAYURNICK

Term. “ We’re starting a new tradition of
having Bid Night and Tear Night on the
same day,” said Panhellenic Rush Chair
Laurence Phillips, “I think it will work
out really well.”

Women’s rush has traditionally been
a lengthy process which stretched over
the first week and a halfof January. This
year it has been consolidated into parties
on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday. Phillips praised the shortened
Rush schedule, “There had been com-

} See RUSH, page 5

Washington and Lee welcomed 16
new undergraduate faculty members
this fall. W&L always strives to attract
the highest quality professors, and this
group is no exception.

They bring a wide diversity of edu-
cational and professional experiences
to W&L, including two alumni, an
award-winning NBC reporter, and a24
year old planetary geologist. The fol-
lowing received appointments for the
1996-97 school year: Alison Bell (’91),
instructor, department of sociology and
anthropology; Lloyd Dobyns (’57),
visiting professor, department of jour-
nalism and mass communication;
Martha S. Gilmore, duPont ABD Fel-
low, department of geology; Andrew
Grant-Thomas, ABD Fellow, depart-
ment of politics; Jeff A. Hollier, assis-
tant professor, department of psychol-
ogy; Andrew J. Kirkendall, assistant
professor, department of history; Anne
Massey, assistant professor, romance
languages; W. Heame Pardee, assis-
tant professor (part-time), department
of art; Pamela Potter-Hennessey, as-
sistant professor, department of art;
Terry Vosbein, assistant professor, de-
partment of music, and Scott
Williamson, conductor, University

ginning this fall. They are: Marc
Conner, assistant professor, department
of English; Francoise Fregnac-Clave,
assistant professor, department of ro-
mance languages; Jack A. Wilson, as-
sistant professor, department of phi-
losophy; and John W. Tombarge, as-
sistant professor, reference librarian.
Also, Hugh Blackmer has been ap-
pointed to the tenure-track position of
assistant professor, science librarian.
W&L’s reputation as a top-notch
academic institution has not been lost
on the new faculty. “l was interested in
W&L because of its commitment to
undergraduate education,” said Pro-
fessor Conner English. So far, the new
faculty have been generally impressed

with the university. “I’ve been most. ..

impressed by the friendliness of the
students. Everyone is well mannered,”
said Conner.

The Honor Code has also made a
major impression. “I am very pleased
with the honor system, “ said Professor
Wilson of philosophy. “It works well.”

Even the new science center has
made an favorable impression. “lt’s
exactly as it should be,” said Professor
Gilmore of geology. “Everything in
the department is excellent.”

Commons building development
commences with “Five Year Plan”

   
 

 

 

   

li  

Water polo advances to Division
3 championship game; Soccer
teams try to break out of late
season slumps; Football clinches
—1stODAC win; The Big Fan de-
scribes the house of Cards Fall.

Pm STAFF WRiTER

The Board of Trustees passed the “five year plan”
last Saturday, paving the way for Washington and Lee’s
first student commons. “The five year plan is A set of
objectives for the next five years, one of them ‘ieing the
proposed student commons,” President Joi.'i W. Elrod
said.

The idea for the student commons was proposed
over ten years ago and was formally discussed last year
by a committee consisting of members ofthe adminis-
tration, a law school representative and two under-
graduates, Anthony Mazzarelli and Maggie Ogilvie.
“The student commons will serve to dcsocialize the
library,” says Mazzarelli. “ Some of the ideas include
a post office, an ATM, and additional parking.”
Mazzarelli also states, “ The commons will have more
of an impact on the school than any other issue since
I’ve been a student here.”

Other plans for the student commons include student
offices, a food court, a game room, and an improved
exercise facility. “The Gaines exercise facility is often
overcrowded and the weight room in the gym has
similar problems. The new student commons could
also accommodate aerobics classes” said Dean Leroy

“Buddy” Atkins. “We have also considered a theater
which would replace the Troubadour and would be
large enough to accommodate more people,” Atkins
said. The commons would also have a “den” where
students could socialize and relax. Another dining hall,
which would serve upperclass students, might also be
added.

W&L has hired the design consulting firm Dobber,
Craig and Lidsky Associates from Boston to examine
the concept and the program, as well as explore sites for
the structure. The firm will then discuss their findings
with the members of the administration, the faculty and
the Steering Committee for the University Commons.
“This is a very preliminary step but a very necessary
one,” Elrod said. “Once that’s done, we can start
thinking about where we want to build it.”

The Hiller Group, a master planning firm from
Princeton, New Jersey, has recently been hired to look
at possible locations. Elrod says they have an idea of
where they want to build it but a specific location cannot
be divulged until the master planning ﬁrm produces its
findings.

“The ‘University needs a family room,” Elrod said.
“The University has places where all its groups can meet
except a place where everyone can get together as one
does in a family room.” '

 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   

emale 



_ xperienced sexual assaultlabuse atany time in
.»1h¢it.T1iV¢8.‘ }—This grouphas been meeting weekly
if  ei’ght}years with the ‘membership always open
I’ ;to-'riewi‘in,tembers._, Each member signs an agree-
entiofconfidentiality at the first meeting.

\ support group will begin weekly for women
 who—.are[,dealing;,with binge. eating, binge/purge
 ‘eatinglpr-fveryjrestricted eating. If you are facing
ny—,of.,th,ese.problertis in your-dar'ly life, you are
vited t or this confidential; group which meets

    

 

   

 caIl‘ACarol, Calkirzs, the Coanseling Service
~13 Secret 23/ at 8590 or the Student Health Service at
.  M ‘’ arr: ,of__ti_mﬂes and locations. .. V.

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

- I I 'Z/ ./ ’ ' / / / / / //
I I mg umor « //////‘B, /«
, i  /¢ g
OI1 OUT cam US ‘« Nig nah °gg ik / %  
/ Sunday  a ere orne more, i e, / .
Barry White records (y’know, for / /
G1'CCnLand romance so they could have more g %
, ille itimate children to beat and
Betsy Green  no cgine would utter a word of) pro- d % I
, test. But let someone make a joke / /
You may not know it, but there’s and that’s it. ; /
a war being waged right here on My column was criticized for / ./
the pristine campus of Washing- not being nice (rather ironic, con- / / I
ton and Lee University. No, the sidering the venomous tone of the ? /
war doesn’t have anything to do letter). I can’t disagree with the / /
with Winter Rush, the BC, or the assertion that I’ make fun of the ; /
SCC. That war is a war on humor. people and things I see around me. / § ?l
Humor columnists are no longer But I think my colleagues over at / *3‘ A
safe here. I just received a delight- The Trident would agree that this 7 \ 
ful hate-mail letter to the editor in is where we find humor. And all of / /
response topretty mucheveryword the things I satire, I satire affec- W
I have written this year. And I’m tionately. Believe me, there are ‘ /
far from the only target. The col- things in this world I could be / ll
umnists on The Trident’s back page savage about and you wouldn’t /
have suffered a similar fate. From read about them here. % /
Lamar Villere's historicbattle with Okay, I made fun of Kevin, the %
Hollins to poor Rebekah having to guy lwent to my first homecoming / | / I
go into hiding to avoid being with, but since that happened _(
mangled by the football team. SEVEN YEARS AGO,Ibet Kevin ' f W
Anyone who makes a joke is threat— himself would laugh about it, too. . .
ened by this new war. And I’ve noticed that The Trident 7 , ' A
It’s true that sometimes we hu- columnists, like me, are glad to   O I I 9 . 0 e  . 1 I I  I I
morists choose controversial sub— make fun of themselves, too. I
jects. I know that not everyone And here’sathought—ifwe are I
feels the same way as I do about always nice, how could we be I I
Parents Weekend. And last year funny? Maybe those poor souls I S S u e  I h e C h a  r D e b 
when Glen Millerwrote the words, waging the war against humorists '
have some suggestions for us. '
However, I sus ect that without a ‘ ' ° °
“The people littlesarcasm, i.‘f...,, Sam, Disregard personal histories, and con-
. cature, we’d be limited to bad puns C0 u n  W n   e . . , . .
who attack us and kn0<=k-kn0ckj0kes- sider a candidate s political record ..

have no sense of
humor, but at
least they’re
reading us!”

I hope you all don’t think if you
don’t write a humor column that
this war doesn’t affect you. The
war on humor hurts all of us. We
humor columnists have a simple
mission. We try, every week, to
make you laugh, or at least smile.

I.“ the sanitized’ innocuous .wm:ld of Bill Clinton in an effort to turn around his well as increase in the minimum wage. g
our detractors want you to hve m’ ho eless attem t of winnin the residenc in Clinton deserves to be re-elected
“LAX SUX” in The Trident, you your only laughs will come when hp . d P f h r .g wPrh h y f Th h “h 1 t. ' D 1 h
brrr rherrr were some People Urkrrr rsrrr drag t ewaning ayso t ee ection. i re argeso roug ou eerec ion season, 0 e as
can . . . ’ . Everyone have their absentee ballots handy? indiscretion, deception and corruption on the been unable to convince most voters that he
who didn’t agree with him. Fellow humorists, take heart. d . h H. I h dd f h C]. d . . . D 1 h . h h.r f h ff f .d
Polrrrrrrrlcolrrmrrrsrs Choose rrorrr The 1 h rt k h Most nee to arrive at t epo ingp ace t e y part 0 t e inton a ministration, o e as is wort w i e 0 t e 0 ice 0 presi ency.
peop ew oa ac us ave no . . . . . . Q»
, , , of the election, so fill them out and send them in forgone trying to win on the sheer force of his The mere fact that Dole has resorted to
troversial subjects every week. sense of humor, but at least they re . . . . . . . .
. . , . . (quickly, knowing how slow the Lexington Post ideas and past record, and resorted to mudslinging says something about his char-
Laura Knapp’ the lefbwmg col- reading us! be‘ S consider this Office is) The election is under two weeks mudslin lin The iron of it all thou h is that
umnistfor The Ri"8"”’” Phi °°‘_‘1d‘ hate mail a bad?‘ of honor’ To away, and depending on where you live, you still his attaclgts age having this opposite effgci on the “I '
probably suggest that we provide, everyone else, fight to power and have time polrsr AS reported in the New York Times on t ls S 0 e to
§welfare"mQ§h”‘s"w’Eh"5: "“l‘(5q?"?il?}l5g.l.‘.lil‘3A‘i’ll?.i.l.“’:ry°." Still Can‘ Until the last presidential debate, character Monday, Dole’s approval and “trustworthiness”  k  ‘d t ‘ '
 .1; . . . aac ca lCl€S~
r ~ ‘ V I ‘ ‘ V" A 7‘ ‘-'“" had been avoided as a topic of debate, but as an rating has droppedras a result.
t  kr act of desperation, Dole decided to uncork the Dole s recent strategy begs the question of    ls 
uo e 0 e  ee . issue. Because he did, The Ring-tum Phi de- whether character should be an issue an election.
rr r r cidre)d tr: ressurrect it aljro. Ir rr f E/lostobvirousrly,Bob liorrlrcarrlzelirevesthatitsrrhould.   S... 1
0 mericans carea outt ec aractero our ut amazing y enoug erican voters 0 not. r
Oh  ' I     politicians? The answers vary, but it does seem In most every poll, when asked who Americans  . , . . ”
7 7) thatourcountryisgoingthroughavaluesschizo- believe to be the most trustworthy, Bob Dole
  S  phrenia rightnow. The politicians are screaming wins hands down. But when those same Ameri- _
about ‘family values,” and USA Today even cans are then asked who they will vote for, the acter. The infomiation that Dole is now '
_ anonymous Senior mispunching her absentee ballot devoted special sections in three consecutive most popular answer is Bill Clinton. Is this a circulating about Clinton has been in the
papers on the subject in August. manifestation of the general fickleness of the mainstream, and did not damage Clinton the
In almost every poll about the subject since American voter or does it illustrate the more first time around. What makes the Dole
June, the respondents have replied thatDole has profound notion that Americans place more value campaign think that it will damage Clinton 4,
a better character and is more trustworthy than on past record than on character? The answer is now? Dole is now showing his true colors-
Clinton, and cited character as an issue. But obvious. It is my opinion and most apparently he obviously has an unmitigated thirst for
Clinton continues to build a lead that might end the opinion of the rest of the nation, character is power and will resort to slander and innu-
up in an election resembling 1984. not, and should not be, an issue in any election. endo in order to achieve it. Are these the
On the right again this week isJason Zacher The most important issue in any election and qualities we want in a leader? He should 3!
’98, The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor. On the the best way to choose a candidate-—esepcially in accept his defeat and save some face before
left will be Laura Knapp (actually class of ’99), regards to an incumbent--is on the basis of past he totally ruins his public image.
our Democratic columnist. record. It is so easy to attack candidates on the The character issue is unescapable with
Should character be an issue when we choose r basis of their personal histories--honestly, who Clinton. But one ought to look at his record .

 

   
 

 

 

The Ring-Tum Phi, OCTOBER 24, 1996

 
   

 

election...

12
DAYS

our next president? Read on, then decide for
yourself.

- Jason Zacher
Editorial Editor

   

    
     

No matter his supposed personal failings
or assumed marital difficulties, Clinton has
been proven himself as a great leader many
times in the past four years. He has fulfilled
most of his campaign promises--including a
total revamping of the welfare system as

From the Left
Laura Knapp ’99

In a last ditch effort—-and a desperate one at
that--Bob Dole has begun to attack the character

before they judge him. What one has ac-
complished in the past is the most important
quality in a president. Clinton has proved to
the American people, while Dole has failed,
that he is the best for the future of our nation.

does not have something in their past that they
are ashamed and embarrassed about? But are
such occurrences in a candidate’s past really
germane to how one governs the nation? Clearly,
the answer is no.

   

Jones, and the  v ' -

  

  

    
 

-n‘._‘~< 

..... ..

Po

arr rrr rgrrr acter is an issue, but should have some bounds of decency
2 mg -tum I
Q 66 9” . r , .
Fromr   horrriest grraft. Probably not. If meaningless, or Nixon should be femmes that have accused him of “‘
Executive Editor ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord , we ne-W 0 character ﬂaws m. Bob takmg notes about covepups‘ The Sexual misconduct? [do not do‘-lb‘
Managing Editor _________________________________________________________ H Hmary coombs Jason Zacher  Packwood, Dan Rostenkowski, and fact that Clinton smoked a joint in if, he is probably more unfaithful
N Edit ...................................... . ' M ' B - -
rr:rr“r’:rrrrr rrfrrfgr rrrrrror ..................... ..Beinany 3aiiiii;,iii,rr~ir:r:riiZi:rrr,rrri The Rrrrgrrum Phi Edrrorrrrr Edrror or'r1rrrIr(rJn wérlrrrrr/rrb:rfr<r)r<r.r they rran for college does not matter the slight- to Hillary than Kennedy and
Srrrrrrs rrrrrrors ............................ any rrrrrrr<r:rrr¢r:rr Crrrrrrrrrrrre Dore opened an rrrrr rrrrrmrr, (r B r ave e ecte est bit, and certainly does not im- Johnson combined. wrroopergatgu, r‘
Features Editor .......................................................... .. Dave Balsle ‘ - i . ' n any 5 case’ I guess palrtheway he govemstoday (there Will be decided long after Clinton
photography  rrevrrrirl tirely new issue in the second presi- so.) These are character flaws that will be those who disagree). Ifthis leaves office.
dential debate last week, the issue should disqualify them from of- I -
Business Manager ............................................................. ..Will Hershey ofcharacten Should Chara°t°rmat' flee l“ an)’°n°’5 mind» Character ‘ am'pmbably going to get h~ate
Advertising Manager .......................................................... ..Chip Harrell ter in politics? Dole argues yes, is an issue. “Th0uSaTldS 0 mall thls-week for-not Slammlng
Circulation Managers ............................. ..Dar1iel Harrell. Justin Laborde criticizing president Clinton on his the d- a h t b h the questionable Cllmon moralltya ',
. _ r me iasc argeo ete . b - - :
may different issues and scandals watchdog and dig for these issues, rrlenw llke some tr: 12:: lﬁssrgnlathrlrngrfa (:1 b:.pr0ven’l;
The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate School surrounding his presidency. butwe need to reside in some realm tr “I C ec e , lam Coun-5
Year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington_ Virginia. minding for Character should matterin poli— of decency. I think that everyone of our father S: y  l operate?‘ 0‘: lhe Innocent:
The Ririgmm phi comes “mam r - . . . . until proven guilty idea. Correct
P 3' tom advertising and subscription tics, but the people, and especially in this nation, except for Senator d - . I 3
rrerrrilrenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive the media, need to become a bit D’Amato, is a little sick of hearing   gllflilfl am wnlingl goth phartles can
tor and Business Manager. but TheRtng—tumPhti th rwi ind - - “ . ,, “ . l 8 35 muc mu 35 t CY Want
dent. 5° 6 58 epen ;tr1r<r>rrrr€>rrrerzr1:<>rrr::lr:le t(r>)what extent it the words ryvhitewater, Paula COuntr y, rlg but if there is no Proof, it does no;
The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters. i‘ t‘ n. f0 we want an Jones», and Troopergate‘ "nan 3 thing-
Au Submissions must be rrr the PM omrrrrr room 208 or rrrrr Urrrrrrrrsrry en ire genera ion or young people Clinton has done things that are 07‘ LUrOng, 1havebeerrlabeledbypeopleas
Centerr by noon on Tuesday to appear  that wrrrrrs rrdrrrorrr The Rrrrgrrrrm afraid ro go iIr1rtr0 PQlltlCS because of questionable. His «world tour»: of h th an ..arch_conServaﬁVer., I do brrr 5
pm reserves the “gm to edit Sumbrssrohs for Content and lrrrrgrhr Lrrrrrrs sorme insigni icant act they com— anti-war protests makes me ques- LU en  lieve that Character is rr ma. .
columns. and “My Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phl muted whlle they were in college? tion the pamoﬁsm of Our PFeSl- sue but we as an t‘ Jor ls-
Ediioriai Board. Advertising does not reflect the oprnrons or The Rmg_tum No. Ask yourselvesthis: how many dent. If someone loves the country Lvere  rie ’di d ’ en "6 comm?’
Phi or its staﬂ. This news a r observ Of 0“ did Somethln ll’! these ast ' e 0 un erstand that Someone S
p pe es cuirent court definitions oflibel y g P 35 much 35 OUT president should, 9! ast needs t b - d .
and obscenity. four years that could become scan— he should do what his countr k upon‘ P - 0 6 “CW6 m pro- h
. . _ _ _ Y 35 S r spective. We would all like a resi-
dalous if the media got wind ofit? of him. Thousands of men l'k P
The Rmgwm PM Probably marry or Orr r r , i e r V dent that follows the Honor Code,
rrrr   ., ,rr,r___   r. , . rrrrrrrrr are rsrrrrryrrr rd rr some 0 our athers, served out were a habitual problem of;his‘,.it'Vi —bi.it,.th‘is is politics. A
. . . a r - r    V‘; r.; r, .
Lrrrdrrgrorrr Vrrgrrrrrr 24450 AS rr people we need ro ‘r’mr3 er Country, nght0rWf0ng,Whenthey would become a major character ~ When the election is over, and
-1-eie hone. (540)462 4060 . ’ 6 8° Can‘ w‘_"°°3”edUP0n- Unt1lthe1960 s, issue. Iwould not want our presi- - the victory party is finished we " 1
P - - didates that we can trust and re- this had never been a real issue. dentli htin a'ointwhenourcou ‘ll h ' ’
Fax: (540) 462-4059 Sp6Ct- WOUld George Plunkett (of The different scandals that hav ' g g J n‘ W1 -ave a president whose char-
E_ma1r pm@wruredu T rr H H r 6 try is attacked. _ acter is questioned repeatedly, and
amm ny a fame) be elected attached themselves to the Cli -
nton Is there something to Paula a loser who returns ’th h‘ ‘
' ‘ ' ‘ today after people learned of his presidency are, for the most part, I . , . _  ., .. WI  Yrlftuer _

 

 

f    W81 lifﬁ

PAGE 3

l Lenfest debuts Earnest for Parents Weekend Close but no cigar:
BY KELLEY TOTFEN  
PHI STAFF WRITER
in r and the Darkness
'3 Some Washington and Lee students want to show their
community a Wilde time in Lenfest Center.
W&L’s theater department opens its fall season Friday ** of 4 stars;
at 9 p.m. in the Johnson Theater with The Importance of jumbled
1 Being Earnest, by Oscar Wilde.

With its contrived plot and “happily ever after ending,”
the play creates a hysterical farce of Victorian society.
Wilde turns the stage into a circus of dialogue, where what
is said one minute is immediately contradicted the next.

it “Welive in an age of ideals,” one character says in the
first act. Yet the ideals of these characters are just plain
wacky: the young women will only love a man if his name
is Ernest; the mother is delighted that her daughter’s suitor
is ignorant; and a girl’s fictional diary accounts are treated
as reality, simply because they are written down.

“There’s some really snappy little bits of dialogue that
still make me laugh every time I see it, even though l’ve
o been watching it every night for a week,” said lighting
designer Ethan Krupp.

Director A] Gordon chose the play with the help of
senior theater major Dan Tipton, who is completing he
thesis by playing the part of Jack Worthing.

“It is a good play for student actors,” said Gordon. “It
is genuinely funny and different from playing straight,

The pitch:
“It'll be like
Jaws in da
lungle.”

‘Alex Christensen
Phi Movie Critic

 

Val Kilmer is an excellent actor. Michael Douglas is not.
So right away, you know that a movie pairing the two is going
to be a bit uneven.

The Ghost and the Darkness is based on a true story about
two lions who killed 130 people over a nine-month period in
1898 whilebeingpursued by abridge engineer, John Patterson
(Val Kilmer) and a professional hunter, Remington (Michael
Douglas). Patterson has been assigned to build the bridge in
Tsavo, east Africa, and so killing the lions and getting on with
the work is his passion. Douglas is motivated by the thrill of
the hunt. .

Phto coutesy of nfest Center
Would you l1ke some tea with your silence?

Gwendolen (Mackenzie Caldwell) and Cecily (Susannah Carr) share

 

 

  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
 
   
  

    

 

This is a sound premise for a movie, but really, to make a
1‘ tea’ cake’ and a calculated snub’ “true story” convincing, you have got to put some imagina-
reallsllo onaraotersga Earnest shouldcrcate as many laughs as the tion into it. You can’t just plunge us into the facts as they
Tipton, who originally wanted to play Algernon physical comedy inNoises 037, said Gordon. occurred and expect much impact. This is what director
Moncrief, decided that Jack’s character was more in “[Et1"18St] i5 110i running-around-with S‘°Ph°h H°Pkih5 has d°h¢a h0W¢Vef- The diFeCi0|' Of S“¢h
. K accordance with his own personality. your-clothes-off funny,” Krupp said, “but it classics as Nightmare on Elm Street 5: A Dream Child,
“The whole play is about facades and my character is is Still a riot.” T P1'°d3t°l' 2: Dahgemhs Games ahd Bl°Wh Away has h'°“8h‘
acting within the play itself,” Tipton said. “It’s a challenge "5 ah°th91' mm in the Same Veins Whh °°mP1°t°1)’ “hd°"°l'

just trying to uphold the facade.” Showtimes: °P°gf°ham°t°r: ahd brlalihlessi hl‘“d‘t°'f‘l’lh°“’ 3°h.°ht°h fl
It was Wilde’s clever one—liners and humorous charac- Oct. 25 at 9 .m. °°“rS°’t ere ‘ea 3' are °“ 3' tw° ° amctets 1“ e ' m
ters that attracted the actors to their roles. Oct. 26 at 2 gm. ahywaygpattersoh and R°mi“gt°“’Ki}m°' and D°“gl_”'Y°“
«l got to be a wonranlzlng jerk, which is kind of fun,” Oct 26’ 27’ 29’ 30 8,31 at 8 o_rn_ would think that enough had changed in Hollywood since the
said sophomore Wes Armstrong who plays Algernon. “I (Oct. 25 and 26 — all shows are sold out) 19309505’ the h°Yd3Y_°f the thfhchh 3‘fh°h'hd"°hhh'°> ‘ha’
i love to gel l an gns on stagogv perlllaps ongolfl t1llelAlfnczlnsTrhnigllli,l turn into afrelpl illiaracter,
Freshman Mackenzie Caldwell puts on airs as Cast; 5"‘: 35 ‘h _‘‘.° 5°“ 5 ° °“hfa1hs ° t e °°hv 3"
Gwendolyn l:alrfax_ Wes Armstrong _ Algernon excellent and exciting film about theldiscovery of the source
“She’s fun to play because she thinks she’s better than Adrienne Leigh Bryant - Lady Bracknel °f the N“? wh‘°h ‘.5 aV‘hlab_l° °h V‘d°°' B“, alhs’ Sahmel
everyone,” she said. “It’s a fun attitude to pretend.” Mackenzie Smyth Cladwell - Gwendolyn (J°hh K3h1)ath°_hahVf§ld3k1¢ks 15 3 Father hhehlmﬁhslhhai
lg While members of the cast have nothing but enthusiasm Susannah Virginia Carr - Cecily ¢h31'3Ct°1'- I-urcklly. this 15 h°t 35 much Of an "15"" 35 1‘ might
for the production, a few technicalities have caused the Alex Christensen — Merriman have bee“! 31"“ Pm°'3°h and Rd°m':3ltf°:_haV° §_°m°:““3
actors angsl_ rl-_w. Losnnsr _ Lane I e one an a quarter to one an a a imenslons t em-
; “Those damn muffins we have to eat taste like dry egg Rebecca Rose Makkai - Miss Prism 5°1V°5-Th°°h1Y°h3h‘°tl°1'Wh°°3hT°3hY c°mPl3h“5Ahd“ha_h
  whites,” complained Tipton. Brian J. Prisco - Rev. Chasuble (Om hm)’ ‘he ““°fﬁ°‘a] leader ofthe Arab ‘f’°‘:k°'5' “"h° '5
S or r ., Both Tipton and Armstrong Complain about warning Dan Tipton _ Jack I constantly eitherthreatemng orlrunning  hislife. lsn tthat
‘ ii » 3‘: = ‘Via i ‘ hair cuts. Tipton had to dye his hair and grow out what he ~ ‘ Jgstllhkeozz  (HIE: .Cenamly)’ at ‘east’ not as much as

. describes as a “townie” mustache for his part. ' 4 S Al Gordon - Director °  W0“ ma ‘3 1‘ 3PP°‘"- -_ _ V _
 V “I think Gordon just likes messing around with our Tom Anderson — Technical Director h Khmehahd D0‘-‘S135  tho mhch Wlltlh t:°hd'_’h$5“l’h5
‘ ‘ ' - as -or - - _ S M t ey are given anyway. mer seems tot in e is at on
h ‘ Ph°‘° °°“"‘°5y °f Lehfe“ Cem" ha1g'l1fl:l:.S‘StallS the first student production in Lenfest to E4hnrriSlj::[l:jrra1;,gl;g.smt:l%‘i Eggage BF3hd0 from The Y°“h8 Lions: and he P0595 hhd Srhhaces
- - 99 ‘ . . .
“My name 15- Earnest In t0wn°" follow the success of last spring’s Noises Oﬁ‘. With a Manager :hd ’:ld°5Hb°:f3d3:::‘°'£1“S:bf°%‘1°Yh°“dh°ff;°lsh:h°°m'
_ , tr'k'n resemblance to the cast of Noises Oﬁ‘ - Wes Eih Kr - L‘ ht'n desi n ‘ma 9- ° 1 38 T3“ ° ‘h e 5 3“ ° h “ea”,
s Jack (Dan Tipton ’97) tells all in The irlmlslrgongl Adrienne Bryamlsusarman Carrlrnwl Losnnor Aly:?a Grarlsir _ ginrlrdgdoslgi but this time he ﬂops‘. Presumably he saw how few lines he
A ‘ Importance of Being Earnest. and Dan Tipton Star in borl.l_ the snnanonal Comedy in had in the film, and, instead of demanding that they write a
T _ _ _ , character for him, he ﬁgured Patterson was just tacitum. He
F a n s fi n cl N I rva n a I n Th e Ba nks o f th e Wlshka snouiaprobabiybemoremcean«m»ousn=fui-oh.w=i»-
Douglas plays Remington like an aging Wild Bill showing
BY ERIKA WOODSON Wishkah spans the entire period of is great. Change that. It RAWKS. world. “Polly,”“SmellsLikeTeen Spirit,” off hisagingstuffforthewildwest Show, insteadofasareal
. i PHI STAFF WRITER Nirvana’s popularity. The impressive 17 Although there is no jammingorimpro- “Lithium,” and “Breed” also represent killer or a serious hunter.
Ok kiddies Put on the old llnnklng tracks were hand-picked by surviving visational drifting so common to most Nirvana’sfirst majorreleaseand U.S.suc- Then there’s Emily Mortimer, who Elays Helena,
L ’ - i - , band members Dave Grohl and Krist live albums, the darlings of the Seattle cess. Forthose of you who jumped on the Patterson’s wife. I don’t know if it’s her c aracter or er
. caps. What isthat one thingthat you ve _ b d d ,t t. h. h. . b l.f h h dbe "C tfmm
             

i ma)’ 53)’ Someihig like Studying for that lfjofm 19Cot:I~mire m(-mt S q duciii their Stt?di0 thereyialong with “tourette’s ” “Milk It ” is doing some kindiof incomprehensible accent which is not
last History. test or even “(it asking that ciedgre The Eiirfustllsul- sogund on stage. and “Scentless Apprentice.” The big faiis even recognizable as Irish. And her annoying presence,
cenafn girl m your lab Section to Home‘ includes songs Did you like will recognize the tracks from b-side com- fondly and anxiously recalled by Kilmerin the ﬁeld in Africa,

0gur§rr;:l:l§ﬁ from all of B l e a c h? pilation Incesticide--the catchy tunes of supplies none of the nostalgia it should. You think, well, yes,

it concert was mg biggest mistake of my their major “School,” “Aneurysm,” “Been fa ion,” andl“IS1liver. ’ his mlghtlegphbalrlr forthe baby, but her? Which is notwhat you

' . “Blew ” “Spank Thru,” oneo t eorigina irvana s ou in ng.
vlifetodate.” releases ’ . .. . .
" . ' h d ddt t Adth th thl .As J hie I,
Now most or your despite thls deep and even all n d songs,‘ is a moie t an ecent a 1 ion 0 n en ere are e ions h in aVl;S or] akyller e se
. includes Nega- this mini-anthology. Predator2, whatever, who cares,t eactua sta mg i ers are
‘ and .extremely pamful regiet’ were able 3 previ- t i v e Overall, it’s a really good album if you really only glimpsed for the most part. In Jaws or whatever,
4 r §9fp'C]:l up the Shagefetill piecefs of yolilir O u S I y Oieep” are a Nirvana fan--an excellent addition say, Predator 2, the actual monster, when seen, is actually
1 C an ,mOVe On’ or .056 0 you V,v 0 lrrrelnnnnd c a p — and closing piece to yourdiscography. All frightening. These lions look like stop-motion digital cre-
Coma.“ t’ (1); who arr: ﬁrfrieen’ there 5 a 5 0 n g - - t u r e of the tracks (well, most of them) are vefy ations (which is what they ARE), and when they leapon their
new ive a um out y irvana. . . . . . - - -
” t h e familiar songs to the band and the fans hapless victims, you wish you were watching a movie with
From the Muddy Banks of the Spank . , . _ . ll , - Th S h
4                
. . . - O vana, . -
mous relehse fouowmg ‘Be Slumd: (if bn:lh:r:rltS tli:tg)first After all, l hear tliere’s a new)Phish albuiii digital effects.
Kurt Comm" Whemis iip ugge m off with an Sub Pop out. But, if you were one of those hiding Overall, this is a classic example of the recent rather silly
New York was a mommg Piece (Sober “ Intro” (i_e_, release. Do among us who are ready to correct one trend toward building half-hearted movies around no story
3 mg’ Sad’ a.nd released 18.55 than. a year ' ' ou consider lar esad re ret in ourlife get this album and someBigEffect,likethe dinosaurs inJurassicParkorthe
after Cobamis death)’ Wlshkah 15 a C61‘ Kurt engagmg 1"‘ oiirself a hofv It’s 'ugst like 1 Nirvan’a concert only twisters in Twister ltcan work This time it didn’t. Soon you
t ebraﬁon of what Nirvana was‘-a really some t'hrO)atl)petehng Neveniiind fan’? The live without tliat fear of getting hit in the,head may see movies actually focusing on the story again’ and
- SCl'6al’I1ll'l , U OIICC YOU -
n:l\:f::Ol:Z:lLFland please forgwe me) altep get past thft delightful track, the album version of “Drain You” rocks my by flying beer bottles. lettina the effects serve that. But dnn’t hold vnur breath
‘ 1 .
' 1: G t d l’ght r W&L
BY DAVID BALSLEY “I make everything fresh,” Strickler commented.‘ . 4 ingredients. In addition, the grocery boasts an outdoor
h. PHI FEATURES EDITOR Woods Creek Grocery offers fresh muffins, which Strickler grill which Stnckler uses in the prepzlrallion 0 some 0

bakes every morning, hot soups, and cooked meals for breakfast, thegrocery’s meals. As an examp e o t e store s menu,
“Open Now Hoo Ray ” shouts the sign outside the lunch, and dinner. Strickler preparesthe meals each day with fresh last Tuesday the grocery served fresh orange blossom
newly reopened Woods Creek Grocery. Patrons of and blueberry rnufﬁns, cream of potato soup with bacon,

tn r h ve been doing a little “hooray-ing” of their and grilled chicken or a chicken salad cold plate.

h ov:ri'C\:<e>n fa)Vel'b the grocery’s freshly cooked meals, Strickler is “V617: V°"Y Pleased” with ‘he 1'e5P°hS° ‘he

’ ’/ y ~ n store has received since it reopened. Although the
students and faculty of Washington and Lee ave . , _
been patronizing the store in increasing numbers. 8"°C°l'Y has been °P°h hhly f°" 3 Weeks lhcrehslhg

woods creek Grocery reopened on Thursday, numbers of students and professors are already ﬂocking

ll dl dlll to the store.

‘ h ?ctO:er16' The rfflnlillleer of lneoaifrnoslgrifrfsrrl): “l’ve had a lot of student customers,” Strickler com-
OH me years‘ . 6 ’ - mented. She added that her studentcustomers have been

etor of the establishment, snatched the opportunity to “ ‘ted,’ about her hot meals and sou so excited

buy it in September and-mac-16 some Improvements to tli2ftnSt:i‘:f<ler has occasionally sold out of llier prepared

the store before reopening it. ‘ ” _ d
l i _ “lt’salittlebitlighter and brighter,”stated Strickler. me‘:/5(;odprh(‘:: reskpzgse has ti’s°‘l":c3a::t'al iT1°|::r:l:“;$h;
Photo courtesy of Lenfest Center “We cleaned it up and painted it.” R d S  Ewe? Mcum min Street and Lime
A 10Ve triangle in Lenfest? Woods Creek Grocery is a modestly-sized grocery K913 lvlhezh ‘T:-l“':° '°,h gmalive sghedule is as follows.

' Carmen visits W&L with a convenience-smre Variety of Supplies, Canned in r M in St I kle 7 lanm 0:)  :08 (ciiiiehdonday through Friday from 

. ' ' _ P t I, 0 0 E I‘ C l‘ . . . . 7

1 The Opera Northeast Company presented and dry goods’ refrigerated dairy pr.0d.uctST be‘/e.r 0 0 co.“ esy ri d a m to 7 P  on Saturday and from 9 a.m. to 6 P.m.

Carmen on October22and 23 at Washington ages, and, 0f C0UTSea b66|'- What distinguishes 11, Woods Creek Grocery brings groce es an - - ~ 7

hot meals to Lime Kiln Road.

on Sunday.

 

  

H5. ﬁnumnn. Hr. Uggkuialirr.

The program includes an arrangement of “Les
Miserables” and music from the John Wayne Q
western, The Cowboys. The ensemble will also 4
perform “A Movement for Rosa,” a powerful and
dramatic piece meriiorializing civil rights hero
Rosa Parks, “Festivo” by Edward Gregson and
“American Pageant” by Thomas Knox. The con- I
cert will end with the crowd-pleasing tradition,
the “W&L Swing”.

“The only setback is we did not have enough ‘
time to practice,” said Aaron Brotherton, princi-
pal trumpet. “But when we get up there on stage, p 1
I think we’ll make it work for our parents.”

Kolman wants to introduce his students to a
variety of music and help them develop a sense
of belonging to the ensemble. He emphasizes
that his class is unique to many of the other y
courses at W&L because the students want to I
participate.

“We have strong players in every section,”
principal horn player Vanessa Hall said. “When
we get this close to a concert, everyone gets more 5
intense and focuses on the music and their per-
formance.”

PAGE 4 OPINION The Ring-Tum Phi, OCTOBER 24, 1996
, I
‘ ' m I d CPI f m R‘ m '
;President ust ea re or to Letters to The Ing-tu Phi
I . - -
I I I - ' too old to show affection to a par— watered down Just because it seems
i     g  I n S  S     ent, and making such a sexually cruel. If these women really want Dr;
E G   slanted suspicion on college—age to go to VMI, they should b6_]LlSt as
g . roughly 30% of the population. Accordingtolohn Makinand _ _ _ girls who hold hands with their brutalized as male rats. Imust also
5 MY VIEW This index includes households Norman OrnStein’s book Debt |nSenS|t|Ve fathers says more abeutthe person reke issue Wm} her impried cm}.
a . , whose primary earners are cleri- and Taxes, the CPI is not an making the veiled accusation than cism of Ring Figure parties. Let s
E LIZ Detter,  cal workers or wage-earners. accurate measure of inflation’s To the Editor. the people who love their parents see_0nCe ayear, the Cadets go out C
The second type ofindex is the impact on the elderly. The CPI d at f ~dt h -t_ nd have a h ’ -Id an in-
i 1h the Ociober 16 de.bate’.Bob CPLU’ which was established in assumes the regular purchase There is an old adage I am sure an l\/ilyrlenmaii ria1<:or(r)1;S)l:ivi/it] about :olving drunlilegrii re‘:/lelinpg. )This
i polehomplamed thhtB1i:.C1mt:n 1978 an.d Collerls iiltiout 80? ofthe 0?::i1Se:andctarS1’dn0]”he Sorlts most student at W&L are familiar GreenLand, however, enters on her makes them from W&L in what
i lstiyihgthshare Semorcl ‘Zens g polhhhhoh’ llhc ud1.h%.pr.(()j eslsloh: 3 mg mos 6 er?’ peep 6 with. It reads, “If you can’t say column of September 27, which way? Oh, of course—W&L has V’
' twisting his ideas to-out taxes an a1S’Se1f emp oye m N1 ua Sire 0' - t - th' ‘ce don’t sa an thin had ver harsh words for our next— wild artied involving ninety per-
3 reduce the deficit into plans to tirees, and those out of the labor The American Association any njg n‘ ’ _ 3' y , g  b V_ _ , MT tpf th t d t b d ver
: reduce Social Security benefits. force, The CP1-w, which does of Retired ersons has sup- at all. I am afraid that Betsy door neigh or, irginia i itary cen o e ‘s u en 0 y e y
3 Dole and Clinton agreed that a bi- not include the spending patterns ported the evelopment of a Green seems to have forgotten this Institute. Now I musticonfess some weekend, while VMI has them once
; partisan commission should be ap- third type of CPI which would advice. There is a point where bias in regards to this issue I am a year. Well, that certainly gives
2 pointed to study Social Security accurately indicate the spend— commentary becomes slander and one of’ those who has “Save the W&L the moral high ground. It
i and come up with a plan to keep it “   . ing patterns ofthe elderly popu- humor becomes mockery, and her Males bumper stickers and I even Yes, VMI lost the Supreme
3 viable. . . . 6 l8 lation. “GreenLand” has blurred that di- have the shirt she mentioned so Court case. That doesn’t mean,
E The next d3)’: October 17’ 3 This index would be known vision into nonexistence. I had derisively. Obviously Ms. Green they have to like it. I also find it
E fr01il*Page slot)’ in The W“Sh”'g'  an aCCu- as the CPLE’ and would factor planned to write this- letter aweek does not share these sentiments, hysterical that she hopes VMI A
‘0" P05’ repnnedthatsochh Sew’ ih the high level of Spehdihg Oh b td c'ded to hold off and see but some of her attempts at humor women will help “feminize” Lex-
i my benefits. for 60 million retirees  measure health Care by Older people’ ilfgfhe airticeleithat had irked me was at the expense of VMI’s traditions ington. Even ifthey have the incli-
' are Set to use by 29% to match ' ' ’ However the AARP Says that on] aﬂuke Iwas disa ointed to and re imen showaserious lack of nation to shop at Victoria’s Secret
i‘ cost-of-livingincreases according   S due to current budget con- 3' _ ’ _ pp , ~ g _ _ , ,d , d ,t f.;
l to the ConsumerPriceIndex (CPI). straints, they doubt that the gov— see that it was, in fact, a fair repre- understanding of those very tradi- I  afrai that image oesn i f .
5 The articlewent on to explain that impact on the eminent will fund the initial sentatlon of herw0rk- t1ons- with the regulation Clothing they V
i the C131 can overstate the annual outlay of capital necessary to First, a brief comment regard— First and foremost, most cadets will be issued. If Ms. Green things
E rate of inflation by up tol percent- e ” research and develop the Con— ingherOctober5 column on home- are not upset at the thought of that the level of regulation is-un-
3 age point. sumer Expenditure Surveys. coming. While I understand the admitting women. Itis not the idea fair, I can only repeat that this is 4.
5 When We’re talking 8b0Ul 3 Thel0h.g‘3Wa1led _S°_°1‘nSe‘ difficulty incomingupwithamus- of female cadets to which they what makes VMI the school it is. 
Z 29% COLAK1 percehtage poiht is _ ' chrhy review Comnnsslon has ing topics, I do not find it particu- object. The problem begins when I don’t wish to sound as though
3 qhhe abh 0f1.hacC1.”aCy'. Perhaps of rehrhd people’ has been hsed to the perfect ohponhhhy to dc‘ larly funny to read about how ter- the women demand separate stan- I have no sense of humor. I am
5 that'°"g‘aWa1‘°db“P~?“‘Sa“°°f“‘ deterhhhe COLAS for Shela] Se’ Velop a m.Or.e Intelligent means rible herhigh school’s football team dards, which, as experiences such simply tired of reading a column
i mm” to rescue Sochh Security Chrhy Slhcethe 19705‘ his hotah 0.fdeterm1.hlhg COLAS for Soi was, or how she and her friend as The Citadel show, inevitably that,in an attempt to be humorous,
I ought to start by looking at the accurate reflector of the costs of cial Security benefits. A more d d d d h I, .11 M G k th t d_ _ t d comes Off as Snark and
3 efficacy of COLA adjustments living for the elderly. specialized CPI for retirees anemlne to 0 ge nteSv_“’ 0 ‘In Vf” - 5- Teen moc 5 3 ra " ‘nS_ea , _ y
5 based on the CPI. _ According to The Post, the ma- would clearly indicate the nee- sure did notfind the situation quite tion of shaved heads for rats and biting. Ms. Green sself-indiIilhgent '
1 The Consumer Price Index is jor factors in the increase on the essary adjustments for Social so droll as Ms. Green. Also,_I fail the strenuousphysical exertion and ramblings are_not amusing. ope
; based on the prices of a basket Of CPI were an increase in the price Security and could help to keep to see the humor in reading a verbal abuse they are SUb_]6Ct6d to. she will consider the tone of her
I g00dS- ' X 0f fall Cl0lheS, the reinstated fed‘ the entitlement Program Viable lengthy description of how drunk She hasalegitimate pointthat some articles in the future, and really
3 There are WV0 differeh”)’PeS Of eral tax Oh airline tickets, and the 101139“ she’s become on past homecom- VMI matriculants do drop out un— think aboutwhetherthey are funny
i CF15 presehhy Calculated from higher price of hew Cars’ How Ohce the dust Setheshher ings. While I recognize that over— der the strain. (These people are to anyone but her. A .
' household Cohshmerlixpehdlthre many grahdmashhdgrhhdpasweht this elechoh’ the President consum tion of alcohol is ram ant never referred to as rats b the Oh about Rin Fi ure: no one
I . . P p ’ y ’ g g
i Surveys’ Thehrst type ‘S c.ahed Olh and bought a- new waidrhbe (whetherDO1e0rChm1?n) mu: on campus, it is a problem that way. That name refers only to I’ve spoken to, and I’ve spoken to
{ the CPI—W, which was established this fall, a new car, and are zipping lead the way to tacklet e sacre needs to be addressed rather than a those who remain. uite a few’ has ever Seen or would
' around World War I and Covers around the world on airplanes? cow of Social Security. _ _ q . “ .
i quaint habitto be madeinto ajoke. The point of the shirt she men- ever dream of weaning a big
E Also. in regards to her recent re— tioned is that these women should fluffy” white dress to the formal.
: marks on Parent’s Weekend, I can be subjected to as brutal an experi-
E E say only this: sayingthat any ageis ence as men. It should not be -Jennifer Quail ’O0
5 ‘ET T9 KIIQIJJ .
9'
g H5. l_=l_l|J_|"[l, ill". lj_l5lE|:|, ’

BY KELLEY TOTTEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

H5. |:99mh5. lls. Ernn’r,     
Hr, brshrr
and
l'|r. l:9|T§|_5
9n a first nnm: basis.
Work for the Phi

The horns will ring out, the trumpets will
herald, and the saxes will swingwhen the Wash-
ington and Lee University Wind Ensemble makes
its Parents Weekend debut Saturday night at 7
p.m. in Keller Theater. I

“The students here are multi-talented,” said
director Barry Kolman who will prove his point
when he hands over his baton to junior Emily
Framptonto conduct a song.

Kolman thought Frampton, who took his con-
ducting class last spring, would accentuate the
diverse talents ofthe ensemble. She will conduct
“Victory at Sea” by Richard Rodgers.

“I was a field commander in high school for
two years, so it’s not like conducting in front of
a crowd is new or different,” said Frampton, who
also plays the saxophone in the ensemble. “But
being in front of an audience at W&L is a new
experience for me.”

])ishcovyerz/.9 Opportunity... HECHT’S

successful retail operations in the country, is able to offer outstanding career opportunities

A little about us... , '

llilecht’s operates 71 quality department stores under the names Hecht’s and Strawbri‘dge’s with $2 billion im
annual sales.

 

PARTY LE.

    

We cordially invite you to attend a Reception Information sessionv ” I
Thursday, October 24, 5 p.m. - 7 p.m.
Washington and Lee University Center, Room 109 ,

- Casual Attirﬁ - Refreshments and appetizers will be served

- Meet with Washington and Lee Alumni

Rich Gatti, divisional V.P., Assistant Controller - Class of '85 1
Susan Komonytsky, Manager, Expense Payables - Class of '94

Marguerite Nielsen, Assistant Buyer, Cosmetic Treatments - Class of '94

  
     
     
     
   
  

Call Subway for a Party Sub or Parry Platter. You tell us

how tong you want your Pany Sub -— and we'll make it.
And well stuff your Parry Platter with your favorite subs -
shced in tasty 4" portions. Save our number. And talk to us

when its partytzmef Qualifications...

-Cumulative GPA of 3.0
-Liberal Arts or Business degree .-
- Leadership skills I ‘
- Storig analytical skills -

People who do well at MAY have...

-Ability to produce results
-Ability to energize others
- The desire to learn
-Strong organizational skills

‘Advance notice required.

‘ 463-3322
453 E. Nelson Street Lexington

   

10% Discount with this ad

« Hecht’s can offer an exciting career path, excellent compensation. comprehensive benefits and more!

Please RSVP by October 21, 1996 to Cara Hart, Manager, (703) 558-1820 or e-mail recruiting@hects;

homepage: www.maycompany.com

 

Equal Opportunity Employer

 

 

 

The Ring-tumi Phi, ocmmm 25, 1996

Greeks prepare for revised Rush

RUSH, from page 1

plaints about [Rush] interfering with
classes. Wewanted to have it before
people got bogged down with work.”

An additional benefit of the short-
ened Rush is less stress for both soror-
ity women and rushees. Phillipsstated,
“Shorter Rush takes the strain ofdeco-
rating for Rush off the sororities so
that they can focus on the rushees.”

Sorority members concur, “Short—
ened Rush takes the focus away from
decorations." said Millie Heatwole, a
junior. This comes asareliefto women
who have spent the beginning ofWin-
ter Term inﬂating balloons and paper-
ing the walls since sororities incep-
tion at W&L.

In Red Square and Davidson Park,
the changes in men s Rush were ini-
tially less well-received. Fraternities
were aprehensive last year when the
administration moved Rush from fall
to winter. Nonetheless, Anthony
Mazzarelli, President ofthe lnter-Fra-
ternity Council commented,“lt seems
like it’s going well. We’re happier
about it than we thought we would be.
We can’t really tell how successful it
is until we get the numbers. If the
numbers are good, I’d say [Winter
Rush] is a success.”

Fraternity members were largely
unwilling to discuss pre—Rush activi-
ties on the record, but those who did
said that they have been getting to
know the freshmen. According to
senior Kevin Alexander, “Freshmen
are invited to most fraternity parties.
There are no guest lists at the door. But
there are some things that are closed
only to brothers.”

Mazzarelli said that freshmen can
get to know fraternities as much as
they like, within certain rules. “There
are no contact rules like the girls.
They hang out all fall, wherever they
want. But they can’t go to fraternity
houses on Tuesdays and Thursdays.”

There has also been discussion of
revising hazing regulations. A forum
was held on Wednesday to discuss a
new approaches toward hazing. Dean
Howison and Mazzarelli hosted the
forum. “Almost all of the fraternities
were represented,” said Mazzarelli,
“We had a really good turnout.”

Rush rules are another part of the
changes that have taken place in both
men’s and women’s Rush.“There used
to be contact rules during [fraternity]
Rush. There usedto be closed contact,

D-C Trip
Spend the Day:

*Shopping-
*Sightseeing

casual contact, and open contact,”
Mazzarelli said. These restrictions
have been nixed to allow more liberal
contact rules.

Panhellenic has also eliminated
some restrictive Rush rules by cutting
down the period of closed contact.
Closed contact rules prohibited non-
academic relationships between
Greeks and rushees. the point being to
prevent dirty rushing. Closed contact
for women began with Rush registra-
tion in October and ended with Bid
Day in January. This year, casual
contact will extend throughout Fall
Term.

Underclass men and women have
already begun to form opinions about
the Greek organizations on campus,
just as fraternity brothers and sorority
sisters check out the prospective rush-
ees. Panhellenic sponsored a pre-
Rush open party for women on Octo-
ber 13. Non-greek and Greek women
mixed, snacked on cookies and lem-
onade, and got to know the Kappa
Deltas visiting from UVA. Phillips
remarked, “It went really well. The
KD s were really excited to be there.
They re enthusiastic about colonizing
at W&L.”

“I thought the Rush party was good
because the freshmen got to meet up-
perclassmen and the KD s from UVA,”
said freshman Sally Moody. l was
able to meet a lot of girls I had not met
before.

Both men and women admit that
they have started to get a feel for the
Greek scene. One freshman male,
who requested anonymity, said, “I do
have some ideas, but I’m nowhere
ready to commit.”

Likewise, freshman Anna Parris
said,“Many ofmyfriends have shared
stereotypes which they ve heard about
each sorority. I hope to meet more
people through Rush mixers. Then I
can form my own opinions about each
sorority and judge which one is for
me.”

The IFC and Panhel encourage
freshmen to begin getting to know
upperclasmen. They remind students
that fraternity registration will be in
mid-November, and sorority registra-
tion is due at the next open party, on
November 3.

The outlook for Rush is positive.
Despite some of the changes to Rush
this year, widespread involvement in
Greek life is one W&L tradition that
should remain intact. After all, we
have a national reputation as one “big
Greek school.”

*Museums

*Theatre

*Resturants

Saturday, November

Charter bus leaves at 9 a.m.
and returns later that night

Purchase your $10 ticket from Michelle
Richardson, Room 103 of the University

2nd

Center

or call X4111.

 

Come to our meetings, every Tuesday
at 8 p.m. in our office, University
CenterRoom 208.

“Four columns by ten inches?
We need to fill how much?”
-- Dave Balsley,

Phi Features Editor
Can your fill this space?

Dave and all the rest of us here at
the Phi would love your contributions.

For more information, call us at

NEW’ PAGE 5

  

    
 

  
  
 

     
   
   

X4060.

VI SA

 

Welcome W&L Parents

N‘    ‘
lttttI~~t.1’tI  15
102 W. Washington St.
(540) 463-5383

-Woolrich - Duckhead
- Raybans - Red Wing Boots
- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos
— Fancy Cummerbund and Tie sets
- W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars

- Embassy Boxers

Parent’s Weekend Special
Suits and Sportcoats
20% Off

Open this Sunday

MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE

 

 

 

Page 6

.ADvEmnsEMmNTs

THE RING-TUM Pm, OCTOBER 25, 1996

{

Find out what your student isn’t telling you for only $30. EV-
ery Week, we’ll mail you all the news that’s fit to print.

Name

Subscribe to the Phi

Just return this form to us.

Address

Return to: The Ring-tum Phi
University Center

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

   
     
 

Call Beth at

:..e.

SCOTT AND BETH WANT HOUR BODH

It's not that they don't have love lives, they just

need writers.

463-7111 or Scott at X4650, or call
our office at X4060.

   
 

_M_e_n
Corbin
B.D. Baggies
Ruff-Hewn
Timberland
Gitman
Woolrich
Sero Shirts’

Confederate Belts

BIG    suns
AND SPORTCOATS

Women
Ruff-Hewn
Corbin
Eag1e’s Eye

Knitting Needles
Leegin Belts
British Khaki

Since 1926

Pendleton

Fabulous Jewelery

Visit us again for pleasant shopping and first
qualtity merchandise.

The College Town Shop

11 1 West Nelson

 

AMEX VISA

MASTERCARD UPS SHIPPING

Football, from page 8

ior defensive end Jack Boyd recov-
ered the ball for the Generals on this
critical play.

“That,” Fischer said, “was the dif-

ference.”

W&L took advantage of the oppor-
tunity. The Generals ran the ball to the
15-yard line on four plays before a
pass interference call against the Ti-
gers moved it to a first down on the

égguhadwlwl/5%%ﬂﬂq%hwﬁhy&vtSﬁhmﬁ
 07"‘ " ’5169"’(2
yamhghwa Aqyuuw..»u A/J

FEATURING



¢ I-oamspiaw lt@,,,___,

SWEATSHIRTS, SWEATPANTS, T-SHIRTS

540 464-3000

MAIL OHDEFI

1 800 474~OO56

 
   
   
 

Photo by Julien Williams

Omar Moneim, Matt Luka and Travis Wisdom watch W&L’s offensive unit during a recent
game. Wisdom’s season was cut short last weekend when he sustained a fractured ankle.

ﬁve. Junior tailback Seth McKinley
made his first trip of the season into
the end zone two plays later on a one-
yard run.

Holbrook nailed the extra point to
extend the Generals lead to 17-7 at the
start of the fourth quarter.

But with only 6:52 remaining,
Hampden-Sydney’s Dorion Baker
scored for the Tigers on a three-yard
run. Rudzinski’s extra point attempt
went wide, leaving the score at 17-13.

But the Tigers refused to give up.
They forced the Generals to give the
ball up with 4:30 left in the game.
Hampden-Sydney made it to theirown
43-yard line. But juniors Jeff
McKenna and John Benazzi broke up
the Tigers last two pass attempts to
preserve the victory for the Generals.

Washington and Lee had its best
rushing game of the season against the
Tigers, running for 115 yards on 36
carries and picking up two touch-
downs.

McKinley had a season—high 53
yards on 14 carries while sophomore
tailback Floyd Young ran for a career-
high 60 yards on 11 carries.

The Generals’ offensive line of Ed
Zelc-zen, Stefan Neumeister, Will Hill,
Marc Granger, Matt May, John Sens-
ingandfullbackAaron Wilkinsonwere
key in this effort.

This Saturday the Generals are
looking for their second straight win.
Only this time they are hoping to de-
feat the Tigers of the University of the
South.

The Generals will host longtime
rival Sewanee in front of W&L’s moms
and dads. Sewanee has posted a 3-2
record so far this season under first-
year coach John Windham.

Wilkinson believes that the key for
the Generals on Saturday will be in-
creasing the offensive productivity and
playing more consistently.

 

    

i 5 . Harris Teeter 

Your Neighborhood Food Market

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

. 1 
F IllllilIlllllenlllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
- 5 
« 5 ,, ii
. 2 *D1lﬂl1H lD!HiI!UlJlllf 51$

 2 ipurwrxs 

1 : : 

'.' “Philadelphia & New York Style Subs"  f;

' ‘ E . Restaurant Hours: Delivery Hours: 5 

: 3a.;n(§.,2«,=  §'1:éJ(2 a.m, -- ‘I '1 :<3s’) Wu. Supday - ‘.2:0{,'=p.m. — H:('}i')‘ pm. : V;
‘ : Mczociay  E 1:00 .-ism. ~ 1.310%) Mn. Monday ----- « 5:(')() pm. ~ ?2:()().'~Im. :
‘ : Tu€.*s<‘l;.‘:y  ‘I 3:3?) .1.m.~ « E2:£}{3 ;1.m. Tuesday - :'>:()£)p,n1.~ 12:00 am. : ,
u ‘»"»’€fd!1é;*s»s..«:~' 3 1:00 am. ~ E:i‘z{} am. Wednesday ------ ~ pm. ~ 1:00 am. I I
: "§’i‘s:.s::‘~d.’s}-  H:0§) 4,213. ~ RGO am. Thnaxsday ~~-»-  pm. ~- 1:0(.>a,rn. : 
I Fréd.:j.- ~ - E3;i_Lu(,> am. -- 2_:3d am. Friday  .’3:O(};:>.m. ~ 1:()().:—;.m. : ‘i
‘   C] e r ege E §};2:;::<.£a§.«'  ¥'3:r.J<> ..a,:'n. -V L: 38 4-Lm. Saturday  %2:0Op.m. - E:(}{)a.m. E 
 R cakes N E 105 North Main Street Lexington, VA 24430 I-'_ 
« 5 (540) 464-1983 : 
I
e F o“BlileSIntaii”"“"t
‘ K.J. James
1
1.
4
IA
‘ pplyNeec.1s...
‘  Pencxls
J (
Selected Vhr-iet'  ' Thnee Muctakteers
‘ Minute Maid leg 199 Fun _o’,‘;';;““’°’ 99
J'*1ice Pk Candy -14 oz.
. One_Dozen Loaf Selected Varieties
Chxcken Freshly Baked Keebler
‘ Drummettes  
Parents Weekend
,   1«*riaay, October 25
A  9:00 p.m. inthe GHQ
r‘ WmM°“eSG°°dW°ge;g;v;g°jh;°;e,,23:.T*;egghTued=v»°°wbe29:B% Sponsored by the Fridays! Committee
WeReserveTheRight'IbLimitQuantities.NoneSold'lbDealers. _ > _ Free Admission and 

 

 

‘ 3
Generals in action this week- 7 ‘ '
- I B ‘I  -mm I Last week s results:
Foorui.i. - Sat. vs. Sewanee. 1:30 p.m.
MSoocn.- Sat. vs. Randolph-Macon. 3:00 p.m. ' F°°r'""" w- 1743- V5- H3mPd€n'5)’d"°}’
Tues. at Roanoke. 4:00 p.m. Msoccn - W. 2-1. at Sewanee; W. 6-0. vs. Brldgewater
w5°°°“ ' Said V5~   P-m- Wsoccm - L. 3-0. at College of Notre Dame
e . in uarte n‘ _ . _ g _
VoLu:Yuu. - Sat. vs. Christopher Newport. 12:00 p.m.  W. 15 I2‘ 15 5’ 15 9' at Randolph Macon
Tues. at Eastern Mennonite. 6:30 pm. ATEI 0L0- W. 28-6. vs. Buffalo St.; W. 25-9. vs. Merchant
Thurs. vs. Roanoke. 6:30 p.m. Maﬂnei W-16‘10»V5~ RIT: 1»- 13-10-V5-J~H°Pk1“3
Cnoos COUNTRY - Women 12th. men 13th at Gettysburg Invitational
PAGE 8 FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER PoLo-, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

OCTOBER 25, 1996

Water polo finishes season in style

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
water polo team saved its best
for last.

With
its 1-12
overall
record
g o I n g
into last
weekend’s
C W P A
Division
III tour-
nament,
the out-
I o o k
d i d n ’ t
look too
bright for the Generals. But
W&L shook off back-to-back
losses to bitter rival Richmond

 

= ran" out;'_ .Wh_ateve: it WT

humiliated -bysjafn infeqnorqte A

last week to post three straight
victories in the Division III tour-
nament before falling to Johns
Hopkins in the final. The Gen-
erals ﬁnished the year 4-13.

Despite the team’s struggles
this season, head coach Page
Remillard was not surprised by
the water polo squad’s strong
performance last weekend.

“We definitely improved
week by week (this season),”
Remillard said. “That allowed
us to be superior this weekend.

“We ran intc eams we should
beat.”

Remillard emphasized that
the Generals’ tough schedule
was a key factr‘ for the team’s
losses up to la! weekend.

“We were loaded with a Di-
vision I schedule,” he said. “As
soon as we getfin a pool with
people like us, we’ll do better. It
wasn’t for a lag? of trying.”

 

The Generals gave it their all
and then some Saturday morn-
ing as they took out their frustra-
tion against Buffalo State, drub-
bing it 28-6. Senior James
Silberstein picked up seven
points for the Generals and se-
nior Pete Sorensen added six.

Merchant Marine was next
on the Generals’ hit list. W&L
showed no mercy in the Satur-
day afternoon game as it wal-
loped Merchant Marine, 25-9.
Sorensen notched five more
points for the Generals in that
contest. .

The day ended with the Roch-
ester Institute of Technology
squadjumpinginto the pool with
W&L. RIT probably wished it
could have climbed back out as
it succumbed to the charged-up
Generals, 16-10. Silberstein tal-
lied seven points for W&L.

The Generals needed only
one more win to cap a perfect
weekend and grab the tourna-
ment championship, but they had
to settle for second-best as Johns
Hopkins edged them out, 13-10,
in the tourney ﬁnal Sunday. Still,
the Generals had little to apolo-
gize about after their strong sea-
son-ending showing.

“I was extremely impressed

by this team’s leadership,”
Remillard said. He cited the
impressive play of his three se-
nior stars, Sorensen, Silberstein,
and Nathan Hottle, as well as
freshmen Aaron Love and goalie
Ryan Noble. Sorensen earned
first—team all-tournament hon-
ors last weekend, Hottle earned
second-team honors, and
Silberstein, Love, and Noble re-
ceived honorable mentions.

Prior to the Division III tour-
nament, the Generals dropped
consecutive games to archrival
Richmond, losing 9-7 in
Twombly Pool Wednesday, and
falling 11-5 at Richmond Thurs-
day.

In Wednesday’s game, Rich-
mond opened up a3-1 lead in the
first quarter and stretched the
advantage to 7-3 early in the
second quarter.

Just when it appeared Rich-
mond was on the verge of break-
ing things wide open, Sorensen
and Silberstein brought the
crowd and the Generals back
into the game as they each scored
a goal to slice the deficit to 7-5 at
halftime.

Richmond reinstated its four-
point lead by notching a two-
point goal in the third quarter.

But the combo of Sorensen and
Silberstein struck again early in
the fourth, as each scored an-
other goal to make it 9-7. But
that was as close as W&L would
come as UR held onto that same
margin. Silberstein led the team
with four goals and two assists
and Sorensen had two goals and
one assist. Hottle added the
team’s other goal. .

The Generals could not come
quite as close to Richmond the
next night on the road. W&L
hung tough, but dropped an 11-
5 decision.

The water polo team will
graduate only three players this
year. Unfortunately, it is their
top three in Sorensen,
Silberstein, and Hottle, so the
Generals will need to retool with
young talent next season.

“We need to bring in a lot of
freshmen,” Remillard said. “We
need to bring in strong swim-
mers and we need guys who can
play the ﬁeld.”

Despite the loss of his top
three contributors, Remillard
said he was conﬁdent about the
future of W&L water polo.

“We have a very positive at-
titude,” he said. “We’re reload-
ing.”

Photo by Julien Williams

The “Richmond trio” of senior Peyton Williams (90), junior Jack Boyd (91) and
senior McGuire Boyd (17) watch the action at a recent W&L football game.

Generals hold off Tigers

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals held off the
Hampden-Sydney Tigers last
Saturday to clinch their first Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
win of the season.

T h e
game got
off to a
r o u g h
start. On
the sec-
ond play
oftheday,
l i n e -
backer
T r a v i s
Wisdom
sustained a season-endin g ankle
fracture. The senior ends his
impressive career with a team-
high 62 tackles for the season.
Fellow inside linebacker
McGuire Boyd stepped up to
help ﬁll the void, making a ca-

 

reer-high 19 tackles. Junior
David Foster and sophomore
Brad Baker also pitched in, com-
bining for 11 tackles.

Junior fullback Aaron
Wilkinson started off the scor-
ing for Washington and Lee with
a one-yard touchdown run at the
6:38 mark in the first quarter.
Wilkinson’s touchdown, which
was the first of his career, capped
off a 10-play, 58-yard drive
which included 23 and 10-yard
passes from from senior quar-
terback Brooks Fischer to junior
Nick Hodge. Junior Matt
Holbrook added a successful
kick to notch the score to 7-0.

Hampden-Sydney did not
answer until only one minute
remained in the ﬁrst half. The
Tigers converted two fourth
down plays to keep a 14-play,
68-yard march alive. Corey
Morgan ran the ball in from two
yards out for the touchdown.
The score was tied at 7-7 on
Todd Rudzinski’s kick.

forfirst ODAC win, 17-13‘

With just under a minute left
in the half, the Generals quickly
drove to the Hampden-Sydney
20-yard line, where Holbrook
booted in a 37-yard field goal at
the buzzer, putting the halftime
score at 10-7.

The Generals got some extra
inspiration at halftime when
Wilkinson became the first re-
cipient of the Gary R. Fallon
Memorial Scholarship. The se-
niors from last year’s team cre-
ated the award in memory of
Coach Fallon, who died sud-
denly in April 1995. Patti Fallon,
Coach Fallon’s widow, pre-
sented Wilkinson with the award
during the halftime ceremony.
“It is a great honor,” Wilkinson
said. I

Play resumed and all was
quiet in the third quarter until
Hampden-Sydney quarterback
Walt Bordurant fumbled the ball
on the Tigers’ 28-yard line. Jun-

See FOOTBALL, page 6

JOCK SHORTS

BY JEREMY MCNAMEE

 

Cross Country

On Saturday, October 19,
both the men’s and women’s
cross country teams com-
peted in the Gettysburg Invi-
tational.

The men received another
outstanding individual per-
formance from Jason Callen
en route to their 713th place
finish out of 23 teams.
Callen’s time of 27:18 was
good enough for third place
overall. The women, not to
be outdone by their male
counterparts, took 12th place
in the 25-team field. Carson

Flowers and Natasha Dorofeeva
provided a powerful 1-2 punch
for the Generals.

Volleyball

The Washington and Lee
women’s volleyball team con-
tinued their winning ways with
a pair of victories last week.

On October 15, the Generals
put their 16-match homecourt
winning streak on the line in an
ODAC showdown with Hollins.
The Generals were all business,
dispatching the visitors, 15-7,
15-6, 15-4. Virginia Yoerg led
the way with 11 kills. Hilary

Martin added 7 kills.

The Generals then hit the
road to take on Randolph-
Macon. Yoerg and Nancy
Reinhart each had seven kills
as the Generals won their
ninth straight match, defeat-
ing Randolph-Macon in three
straight games, 15-12, 15-5,
15-9. Martin added a career-
high 10 blocks as the Gener-
als posted a season-high 15
blocks as a team.

With the victory, W&L,
ranked ﬁfth in the NCAA
Division III South rankings,
improved to 22-3 overall and
6-0 in the ODAC.

Photo courtesy of W&L Sports Information

Karin ’I‘reese scored the only W&L goal in its
1-0 shutout of Lynchburg last Wednesday.

Soccer teams
compete for top
seeds in ODACs

BY KRis MATHIS
PHI STAFF WRITER

As the men’s and women’s soccer teams enter their ﬁnal
weeks of the season, both teams are vying for top seeds in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference tournament. Though both
teams have posted strong regular sea-
son records, late season slumps have
proved costly and could prevent each
team from receiving NCAA tournament
bids in mid-November.

The Washington and Lee men’s soc-
cer team bounced back from two tough
defeats to crush Bridgewater Wednes-
day. The Generals scored a season-high
six goals en route to a 6-0 victory.

The offensive attackwasled by Jamie
Parker and Sam Chase with two goals
each. Gordon Meeker and Andy Daters
rounded out the scoring by contributing one goal apiece.
Garry Hill had another outstanding defensive performance at

oalie.
g The Generals’ six-goal performance leaves them just one
goal shy of the W&L record for most goals scored in one
season. The men’s team hopes to break the record when they
host Randolph-Macon this Saturday.

After starting the season with a 7-1 record, which included
a stunning victory over crosstown rival VMI, the men’s soccer
team entered the toughest stretch of their ‘96 schedule by
suffering a disappointing setback to ODAC rival Hampden-
Sydney.

This past week, the competition got even tougher as the
Generals faced the ominous task of traveling to Atlanta to take
on #10-ranked Emory University. Despite being heavy un-
derdogs, W&Lbattled tough throughout. The Generals fought
to knot the game at two goals apiece at the end of regulation
before being stunned shortly into overtime by Emory’s game-
winning goal, 3-2. The Generals bounced back two days later
with a 2-1 victory over the University of the South in Sewanee
to end their trip.

Meanwhile, the women’s soccer team has been busy as
well. But they too find themselves in a late season slump.

The Generals have dropped four out of their last six games
with the latest defeat coming at the hands of Notre Dame
(MD), 3-0. This slump comes after the Generals started the
season with an unprecedented 7-0 run.

The women’s soccer team hoped to turn things around with
a 1-0 victory over Lynchburg last Wednesday. Karin Treese
scored the only goal needed for the Generals as they recorded
their sixth shutout of the year.

‘_‘We’ve had a different attitude in practice this week, and
we are looking forward to kicking butt in our last two games,”
Treese said.

The Generals started the season as unanimous favorites for
the ODAC title and they lived up to these high expectations on
their way to a perfect 7-0 record.

The women’s soccer team now looks ahead to tune-up
games against Feirum on October 24 and Shenandoah on the
26th as they prepare for the ODAC tournament October 30
through ‘November 3.

The men will begin the ODAC tournament with the
quarterfinals on November 5.

“Both teams are optimistic about their chances in the
ODACS,” Parker said. “We have a very good chance of doing
well in the ODAC tournament.”

Both teams are looking forward to strong performances in
the ODACs and berths in the NCAA tournament as the W&L
soccer tradition continues to grow.

 

Student Athle V "V

   
   
    

ors welcome

“Jocks. A‘
All! are w *
to attend who
and enterta

. es to be a fun
_. ‘ng evening.

 

