 

1

 
 

 

  

ff?

.1’ ‘J78, 7553

G11 ittng-tum  

VOLUME  NUMBER. 19

~a#/

I"'~

Feb.»
I/. .7 .4

l’l~."Iz
J3:

 

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

i 0 TIAR 1 :1 I997

  

 »1'*‘W=I.~:'l*=.~N  lW»“«‘—~"~‘x’_, ,
w. I LEE. Iimrtvwm.
I:f><;:ee‘.a1'<)N.vA M405?

  
 

MARCH 10, 1997

SENIORS WIN PRIZE:

Congratulations are in order for the winners of this year’s
Edward L. Pinney Prize for extraordinary commitment to
personal scholarship and to the nurturing of intellectual life at
W&L. The recipients are seniors Natalie Messmore and
Melissa Sawyer.

Edward Lee Pinney, professor of politics, who died in 1980.

FORMER ‘PRISONER HOSTS LUNCH:

Rev. Dr. Marc Nikkel, a former prisoner of the Sudanese

lunch in the University Center next Wednesday during which
he will discuss the civil conﬂict in the Sudan and the role of the
Christian Church in the region.

Rev. Nikkel was abducted during his time at Bishop Gwynn
College in 1987 and was held for two months. He returned to
the Sudan to serve as adviser for theological education in the
Diocese of Bor.

‘ The lunch will begin at 1 p.m.; students, faculty and staff are
invited. Contact Ms. Karen Lyle at 8798 for information about
reservations.

BE A SMALL GROUP LEADER:

2001 are available outside Carol Calkins’ office and are due on

Friday. If you have any questions, call Will at 464-1914 or
Steve 463-7089.

DS PRESENTS 50’S NIGHT:

Evans Dining Hall will host a 50’s Karioke Night on
Thursday 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Grand prizes will be awarded for
the best Marilyn Monroe and Elvis Presley look alikes and the
best karioke act.

BREEN SPEAKS ON REVOLUTION:

Students of pre-Revolutionary American history will want to
attend “Ideology and Nationalism on the Eve of the American
Revolution: Revisions Once More In Need of Revising,” a
lecture given by Timothy H. Breen on Wednesday.

Breen is the William Smith Mason Professor of American
History at Northwestern University and will present the annual
Society ofthe Cincinnati lecture at 8 p.m. in Northen Audito-
rium. The public is invited to attend. I

ATTEND “RAUNCHY” CONCERT:

W&L’s concert series of 20th century music, Sonoklect,
will present composer Donald Erb in concert with the Verdehr
Trio 8 p.m. Saturday in the Lenfest Center.

Erb’s music is called “ vital, agressive, raunchy...even whiz
bang,” says Terry Vosbein, director of Sonoklect.

PHI BETA KAPPA ELECTS MEMBERS:

Thirty—three Washington and Lee undergraduates and one
professor will be formally initiated as members of the Virginia
Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa 12:15 p.m. Thursday in Lee
Chapel.

Henry L. Roediger, III, professor of psychology at Wash-
ington University and an alumni of W&L is scheduled to
address the convocation on “Lessons from Psychology’s First
Century.”

JOURNALIST SPEAKS ON ETHICS:

David V. I-Iawpe, the editor of The Courier _Journal of
Louisville Kentucky and an award-winning journalist, will
give the keynote address for W&L’s Journalism Ethics Insti-
tute. Hawpe’s will give his address “Richard Jewell, Tim
McVeigh, and the Rest of Us” 4:30 p.m. Friday in Room 327
of the C-school.

LEARN TO FLY-TIE:

Members of the Outing Club will teach students how to ﬂy-
tie. All skill levels are welcome. Instruction begins at 7 p.m.
on Tuesdays. Call 4066 if you are interested.

—COMPILED BY PEGGY Srumz

The prize was established by the W&L faculty to honor

People’s Liberation Army, will hold an hour-long brown bag

Applications for Orientation Group Leaders for the Class of

“F O P I N I O N
From the Right looks at the democratic fundraising
scandal. The FD date search continues. Prince
‘ Charming cleans his fraternity’s basement.

F FEATURES

Generalprobe prepares for stage perfor-

_‘r mance of Einen Jux will er sichimachen.

Come hear the “sophisticated and soul-
ful” sound of The Nudes this Friday.
Celebrate Women’s History Month with

It the Musical Ladies.

PSPORTS

* The Big Fan celebrates his 21‘~1st birthday and dis-
cusses a myriad of sports. W&L§names the manager

of the new Duchossois Tennis Center.

Spike Lee talks about his career

BY ANNE ALVORD
PHI ExcuTIvE EDITOR

There was standing room only when
Director Spike Lee spoke in Lee Chapel
Wednesday night. The lineto enter ex-
tended from the chapel door, across the
front lawn, to the entrance of Payne Hall.

Lee, one of the most prominent and
influential ﬁlmmakers of our time with
such films as “ Malcom X,” “ Do the
Right Thing,” “ Mo’ Better Blues,” and
“She’s Gotta Have It” to his credit, dis-
cussed his experiences as a filmmaker,
his impressions of the place of black
ﬁlmmakers in particular, and race rela-
tions in America.

Lee never expected to become a film-
maker. As a child, he went to the movies
every weekend with his friends, but mov-
ies were “just fun, then you went home.”
He attended Moorehouse College in
Georgia, where he decided in his sopho-
more year to major in mass communica-
tions. When he graduated from
Moorehouse, he applied to the top three
ﬁlm schools in the country and choose to
attend New York University.

The three-year graduate program in-
cluded very little time in the classroom;
most time was spent making films, which
Lee says is the only way to learn to be a
ﬁlmmaker. In his third year at NYU, Lee
won the Student Academy Award.

After graduating from film school in
1982, Lee was hesitant to go to Holly-
wood with script in hand, because there

Do youneed a ride?

 The new Ride Share Bulletin
 Board assists students with
finding a way to get home

    
   
 
 

  :3
V

  

BY TOM WADLow
PHI ASSISTANT NEws EDITOR

were very few African—American film-
makers at the time. His agent advised
him to “wait by the phone.” Eventually,
Lee gave up waiting and went indepen-
dent. During this time, Lee wrote “Mes-
senger,” which was never made because
of lack of funding. This time was key to
Lee’s career; he considered giving up
filmmaking and teaching cinema arts.
He realized that “Messenger” was too

ambitious for a young filmmaker such as
himselfand decided to make a less ambi-
tious film.

This film was “She’s Gotta Have It.”
It was shot in 12 days in July 1985. The
total cost of the film was $175,000 and
was funded day by day. When it was
released the next year, the ﬁlm made $8.5
million.

Today, Lee uses Hollywood for fi-
nancing and distribution. I

“Malcom X” had an original budget
of $33 million. Warner Brothers would
only fund $21 million of it, and another
$7 million was raised by the foreign
rights to the film. After several months
of filming, the money ran out, and the
project was shut down. Lee refused to
see his dream die and refused to compro-
mise on quality. He followed the ex-
ample of Malcom X himself, that blacks
need to rely on themselves in times of
trouble, and called on several prominent
black friends for financial help. The film
was eventually completed without com-
promising quality.

Last year’s film “Get on the Bus”

II that W&L also needed.

“He just e-mailed [us] out of the blue,” Knudson said.

Do you need a ride out of Lexington for spring
break? Can you give a ride to someone else? Instead of
posting dozens of ﬂyers all over campus, post just one
where everyone can see it: on the web. Now under ‘‘In
the Spotlight” oIHV&L’s homepage, you can go out to
a web-based message board and tell everybody you

need a ride.

\ Developed by University Computing’s Network and
System Specialist Jeff Knudson, the Ride Share Bulle-
tin Board allows you to specify who you are, whether
you need a ride or can give a ride, when you need to go

Knudson said.

or plan to leave, your point of origin and your destina-

tion, your e-mail address and your telephone number
and any other information that you would want to put

down. The message automatically expires after the date

that you enter, but you can also easily delete the mes-

sage if you find what you need.

The idea came to Knudson after Kurt Riegel, former
Lexingtonian and son of a former W&L professor, sent
an e-mail to University Computing saying that he had
seen something similar. He thought it was something

it. Ride Share Bulletin Board 8?:

tv..-.wa.pmu-¢uI.yu...»u.I~.uao~.n.-u:..¢-o...‘- mus:-uy~a¢..w-n_m.I..;..iII.m,.n¢~uuwm-¢¢
.4mum-ymrmmnmmainmmimg...o.n..w...:.nyru~aa-uynuuarsnan-nv-lung:--an
gnaw: um. _ 5

lat: AII:v\,..I:ItE7I
l.‘.~.::-wrrmrl

NI
Na’ Il~llF.r1rlva.Itdhlr:pumIIauv->uM.vI4, I9
rmiA:1m¢-nVA- TaII::1iI1r«I)I’A

    

Screen capture by Tom Wadlow

Knudson’s Ride Share Bulletin Board is
accessible from the W&L homepage.

back up in one hour.

Knudson said that he searched the web for one, but
couldn’t find anything that would be useful so he “just
wrote one.” Since his program was put on the web it has
never been without messages, Knudson said. In fact, it
has become so popular that a local ISP (Internet Service
Provider) Rockbridge Global Village and the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute have both put links to it off of their web pages.

“It’s kind-of turned into a community-wide thing,”

To check out the Ride Share Bulletin Board for
yourself go to http://www.wlu.edu/cgi-bin/rideboard
or click on “In the Spotlight” off of W&L’s main page.

‘Talk’ program disabled

Students wanting to talk to their friends over the
Internet using the talk program have found themselves
out of luck lately. Liberty’s system administrators have
turned off ‘talk’ after a report that there were vulner-
abilities in the talkd daemon, the controlling program
that allows talk to work, that would allow people to gain
super-user access on the server.

The talk program will be down until Hewlett Packard, the
manufacturer of Liberty, writes a patch for the talk daemon.

W&L loses access to Internet

I At about 3 a.m. Sunday, the entire Roanoke ladder
went down, cutting off Internet access to the majority
ofsouthwestern Virginia includingthe W&L network.

Users on the W&L network were not able to access
any Internet resources outside of campus.

Mid-morning, Bell Atlantic Internet Services, the
W&L internet service provider, told Network and Sys-
tem Specialist Jeff Knudson that the system would be

W&L’s connection was restablished Sunday night;
however, it was not stable.

 

Photo by Anne Alvord

Director Spike Lee held a press conference prior to his speech
in Lee Chapel last Wednesday night.

seemed to Lee to show he had come the
full circle. It was reminiscent of “She’s
Gotta Have It” in many ways. The film
was shot in 18 days. Columbia Pictures
wanted to fund the film, but because the
film was about Louis Fharkaran’s Mil-
lion Man March, Lee wanted to fund the
film with private money. The $2.4 million
cost of the ﬁlm was raised from 15 prominent
African—American men in entertainment,
sports and business. The ﬁlm was later sold
to Columbia pictures for $3.6 million.
Lee’s current projects include a film
for HBO which tells the story of four

 

young girls killed in the bombing of the
16th Street Baptist Church in Birming-
ham and print, radio and broadcast ads
for the Holyﬁeld/Tyson rematch.

Following his speech, Lee answered
questions from the audience. Senior Steve
Frame asked whether in “Do the Right
Thing” Mookie did the right thing when he
threw the garbage can through the window of
Sal’sFamousPizzeria. Leesaidthisquestion
demonstrates the lack of understanding be-
tween black and white"America.

“A black would never ask that ques-
tion,” he said. '

Geology students selected for consortium

BY ERICA PRossER
PHI STAFF WRITER

This summer Washington and Lee
University will host the Keck Consor-
tium, and two geology students will
have the privilege of attending.

The Keck Consortium, funded by the
W.M. Keck Foundation, provides re-

search opportunities for geology stu-

dents and sponsors three major activi-
ties: student-faculty research projects,
workshops and a spring symposium for
the presentation and discussion of find-
ings. Sophomores Erin Kraal and James
Sammons were chosen to participate in
this year’s program.

Kraal and Sammons will work with
students from 11 other institutions:

Amherst College, Beloit College,
Carleton College, Colorado College,
Franklin and Marshall College, Pomona
College, Smith College,Trinity Univer-
sity, Whitman College, Williams Col-
lege and College of Wooster.

“This program gives students an out-
standingopportunity to pursuetheirown
scientific research, one of the most im-
portant aspects of scientific training,”
said Cathryn Manduca, research associ-
ated at Carleton College which is the
headquarters for the consortium.

This summer’s consortium offers six
faculty-studentresearch projects for jun-
iors and two for sophomores. The topics
vary from geology of central Colorado
to studies of geologic features on Mars
and Venus.

“My research will focus on Mars,”
Kraal said. “I’m excited that I get to
pick an area that interests me and ex-
plore it this summer.”

The W.M. Keck Foundation, one
of the country’s largest educational
grant-making foundations, was es-
tablished in 1954 by the late Will-
iam M. Keck, founder of the Supe-
rior Oil Company.

The consortium has existed for 10
years with funding from the foundation
that now totals $4.4 million. The
foundation’s primary focus is award-
ing grants to colleges and universi-

"ties throughout the U.S., with par-

ticular emphaisis in the fields of
earth sciences, engineering and
medical research.

   

’ ;I:.w’eiglIt_' _requIr,emeIn_t; sIhoIIld»A.irIcrease.the amount A: ._
fﬁjof blood:th_eI}{\IIIeIr_i,can:Red C,ross_Blood Mobile 3 j
   
_ f  xTh=e're_’ are ijcvhaniges in‘; this year’s, second f
‘=5:“Chi:Psisp_onsored blood.,drive‘.:;3 The Blood Mo— 
 bi_Ie,_will accept donations from .n0On_to 6jp.m.
 The‘extra‘h_:our froIrIi.,5   added » I
{to\aIleviate,"_eongestion thjatphasjoccurred in the
  frorridohors arrivingifrorn labs,atlIl_eticteIInI ’
i"practieesIJ'and Iatejiafternodon classes.fIIAIso, the

. . . ~=’::‘=A'meriean Red’ Crosslhalsllowered the"mininIum
other University Computing news... jgeightiféqulﬁeméﬁtgffbi m1bS_ (6 v1pO5‘lbS_

‘f “IThe§bloo_d_s_upply.in e ‘ Igion Is low and the V

-5 Brothers of ClI_i.Psi,hopé,tobreIaktheir goal of l 00
ﬁjunits. Aunitojfwholeblioodj
 to"a:‘pint.f‘-LI I/-,\‘dIIltf_rrIalesI.lIa

  blood in,theirfcircIulatoryA

Olin-jjdorrationjirliourjs jandijlaj lower I

  

roughly equivalent
,’about"*:1,2, pints of
Iem's;5a'nd adult fe- .

 

  

..I~I"’.:;‘.‘Wh°n they I
an understatement{’ ’ I

Phi Beta Kappa
Convocation

'l'hursday’s adjusted
class schedule

I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I A 8:00 a.m. — 8:45 a.m. I
I B 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 a.m. I
I C 9:40 a.m. — 10:25 a.m. I
I D 10:30 a.m.- 11:15 a.m. |
| E 11:20 a.m. - 12:05 p.m. |
l C onvocation: l
I 12:15 p.m. - I:45p.m. I
I F 1:50 p.m. - 2:35 p.m. I
G 2:40 p.m. - 3:25 p.m.
I H 3:30 p.m — 4:15 p.m. I
I I 420 p.m. - 5:05 p.m. I
I J 510 p.m. — 5:55 p.m. I

L. ________ __.._J

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

OPINION

The FD date search continues. . .

    

H,u,, 5...... I 5:7 bell: .
you in English.

 
 
 

35‘

"“'"E.}.7§T/I.»7.'.?~7

-Freshman year.

 

  

 rw The. as J2. w.
me‘l' 9.1‘ The n.po.r‘l'men'l’

._

   

 

‘Hello. Hello?

  

"/l‘.l’o.y, JennlFer. IT’: Joe.

v -—~ «......_ ,..._......

 

know we7dr::ke up in’
high school, bail’--o

 

     

’ ure you ol.on‘l' \\
remember me? Yes, ]_’,,_1
behihalyou in l.sT3ro.J,¢.
ThcL"f'.s  The one wﬁ,
pulled your pig fails.

-._.._‘_.._._$___~

   
   

 

7?/(,

MARCH 10. 1997 ’

Gaines workout ,

stinky

Let’s face it, a small win-
dowless room without proper air
circulation and carpet ﬂoors is
not the best place to stick a hodge-
podge of workout equipment, and

Life on the Hill
C.E. Miller ’98

Democratic fundraising improper

President Clinton ’s micro-managing of ﬁmdraising diverted his attention

As rumors of special councils
abound, Republicans scream, the
Justice Department balks, and
Senator Fred Thompson prepares
his Congressional investigation, the

From" the Right
Jason Zacher ’98

Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor

American voter simply wants two
things: an end to the scandal and
campaign ﬁnance reform.

The Democratic campaign
money scandal is a complex weave
of people, corporations and coun-
tries. What has really gone on?
Who is really at the center of the
matter? WJ1o.stands to win and

i lose? With all the speculation and

accusations, it is nearly impossible
to know. Hopefully I can try and
shed some light into the matter
over the next two weeks.

Before we start with this, we
need some background. After the
Republican victories in 1 994, Presi-
dent Clinton and the,Democratic
National Committee realized that
in order to get reelected, a massive
fund raising push must be made.
And as is the case with any politi-
cal fund raising effort, incentives
had to be found.

In early 1995 the DNC decided
to ask the president to make time
for major contributers to partici-
pate in social activities with the
president. In a return memo, Mr.
Clinton proposed that contributers
that paid $50,000 to $100,000 could
“sleepover” at the White House.
On the back of the memo, Mr.
Clinton wrote, “Ready to start over-
nights right away.” After that point,
Mr. Clinton was involved in mi-
cro-managing the fund—raising ef-
fort until the election.

FD: Puke

I know that to be a good colum-
nist, you really shouldn’t write the
same thing over and over again, it
can get really tedious for the reader,

GreenLand .
Betsy Green ’97

and there is only enough material
about any given thing. But some-
times there is a topic that lends
itself to be written about again and
again. For some people, appar-
ently it is their homophobia. For
me (and for this column), it’s Fancy
Dress. Try not to think of this as
redundant. And if you haven’t
found your date yet, try not to think
of this as a cruel attempt to remind
you of that fact. Instead, try to
think ofthis column as an in-depth
report/sociological study. Or what-
even

I’m coming up on my fourth
FD, and I like to think l’ve learned
a thing or two. l’ve seen fire and
l’ve seen rain. And l’ve noticed
that each class approaches Fancy
Dress with consistent attitudes.

Originally it was envisioned that
the president and vice president
could have coffee with contribu-
tors as a “thank you” for the money.
Since January 1995, there were
103 coffees with contributors. And
in President Clinton’s first term,
938 guests stayed at the White
House. What effect has this had?
* White House official Evelyn
Lieberman wrote a memo to policy
advisers that issue briefings would
be “considerably truncated or
eliminated” so Clinton could ad-
here to his find raising schedule.
- In a dramatic policy turn-around,
Mr. Clinton was quoted as saying
that assault rifles were, “a tool that
Americans can use to fight crime.”
This came immediately after a cof-
fee with leaders of the} NRA.

What is legal and illegpl in this
whole mess? Well, ‘the Justice
Department has said that the Presi-
dent may host people at the White
House whether they have contrib-
uted money or not, and the presi-
dent and vice president may solicit
donations as long as they are not on
government property. What is il-
legal is soliciting contributions on
government property and having
federal employees solicit money
for a political party.

Mr. Clinton has repeatedly de-
nied that the coffees and “over-
nights” were used to solicit money,
and that nothing improper hap-
pened. Though since he said that,
many improper activities have sur-
faced.

Johnny Chung, a California
businessman, gave $50,000 to the
DNC and got invited with six Chi-
nese officials to watch the taping
of Mr. Clinton’s radio address in
March 1995. These officials were
the heads of Chinese state oil and
trading companies. Last week, it
surfaced that this check was pre-

sented to one of Hillary Clinton’s
aides inside the White House. An-
other Democratic fund-raiser,
Mark Middleton, solicited a $15
million contribution in 1995 from
Liu Taiying, chief financial officer
for Taiwan’s Kuomintang Party.
Possibly the most questionable
was the money that came from
John Huang. Huang was the vice
chairman of the Lippo Group, an

“White House
official Evelyn
Lieberman
wrote a memo to
policy advisers
that issue brief-
ings would be
‘considerably
truncated or
eliminated’. . . .

79

Indonesian Conglomerate with
strong ties to China. Huang even-
tually became a DNC fund-raiser.
Lippo’s high investment rate in
China makes an open trade policy
with the United States very valu-
able to their interests. Huang’s
fund raising activities have re-
ceived much attention since the
election.

The Washington Post accused
Huang recently of offering $45,000
to two associates if they would
accept $250,000 to donate to the
DNC. Though the two denied the
money, the Post speculated that
Huang might be involved in awider
money laundering scheme. Huang
also reportedly took money from

individual contributions and other
events, and reported them as
money raised at two dinnerswhich
Mr. Clinton attended. This raised
much speculation as to where the
money came from.

To the DNC’s defense, they
have returned $3 million in con-
tributions, almost half that was
raised by Huang. Their internal
investigation has not been con-
cluded yet. Senator Fred Thomp-
son is preparing his congressional
investigation, and Attorney Gen-
eral Janet Reno is still fending off
questions about a special council.

Though there is a tremendous
grey area surrounding Mr. Clinton
and the DNC, it is clear that even
though these actions may not be
illegal, they are clearly improper.
There is really nothing that can
come from this, since the election
is over, but what could possibly
happen is the tarnishing of some
distinguished political careers, like
that of Vice President Gore. The
Republicans need to tread lightly
and not try to make the investiga-
tions a Clinton-bashing party.
That strategy will backfire and
hurt the Republican party.

If a real Watergate-type of scan-
dal does come out of this, the
offenders need to be punished
quickly and severely. Money is
an integral part of politics, and if
someone shares the beliefs of a
candidate, they should be able to
help them get elected. However,
fund raising should never hurt the
implementation of policy, never
be done in foreign countries and
should never be done by federal
employees who should be con-

yet that’s what our university
has done. For the few students,
faculty, deans, and professors
who have never ventured into
the dungeon (also known as the
Gaines workout room) the facil-
ity stinks.

I hadn’t done much work-
out since freshman year, when I
was still intent on keeping off
the freshman 15. But I do re-
member being able to walk in
and pretty much find a cycle or
Nordictrac to burn calories on.
Since the sophomores were forc-
ibly moved into Gaines, use of
the facility seems to have tripled.
Duringpeak work out times such
as 3 p.m. one is hard pressed to
ﬁnd even the rowing machine
available for use.

When winter weather
drives the joggers inside, the dun-
geon begins to resemble a room
of torture.

When I decided to try and
lose that freshman 15 this year,
I discovered the dire straits of
the workout situation at our
school.

I realize this University has
a lack of space problem, but that
still does not excuse the other
problems with the workout room.
First there is the ventilation, or
lack thereof. The air is never
turned on, and the stale stench
of sweat hangs in the air for
hours. Often I walk into the dun-
geon at 7 a.m. only to breath in
the putrid air of last nights work-
outs.‘ ‘ ‘ « ‘

help circulation are not much
use. The standing fan is trapped
in-between the stair steppers,
and rarely cools but one person.
The thing that won’t let you stick
your fingers in the fan is miss-
ing. This is a serious safety haz-
ard—take note the death blades
will remove appendages. The
other is a floor fan, and often
keeps my ankles at a comfort-
able temperature. It boils down
to not much help at all. After

’The two fans available to,‘

room more like a
dungeon

leaving the sauna like dungeon,
the wintertemperatures are a
welcome relie. ’‘

Secondly the machines the
University has chosen to place in
the small area are out of date,
and worn out (this crap is falling ‘
apart) There is no easy way to
lower the seats on the cycles. I
have often made a fool of myself
tryingto pull the rusted peg from
hole number seven. This effort y
usually results in me falling
down, and the peg remaining in
its hole.

The stair steppers are of-
ten broken, with one step perma- V
nently stuck to the floor. Only it
is really hard to tell this until
you wander over and try to get
the old biddy going. Then you,
suffer morbid embarrassment
while the other users stare at
you (no one is ever nice enough to
let you know before hand that
the machine from hell is not;
working.)

Thirdly, there is no music.
So unless you bring your
Walkman and a supply of batter-
ies you end up listening to your
English professor grunt and
groan on the Nordictrack. The
weight room, although not in tip-
top shape, at least has a central,
sound system that effectively
blocks obscene workout sounds.

In an effort to help speed up
rotation on the aerobic machines
the powers that be have posted“
helpful signs. These signs po-
litely suggest limitingyour work-
out to 30 minutes when other
people are waiting. Nice, but not
very effective. ll

Finally there’s the carpet.
The thingis that it absorbs sweat,
and unfortunately this particu-
lar carpet has absorbed a lot of,
sweat.

This is not just a student
problem. I hope support for an
updated facility will come from
many different levels. This room‘
is used daily by professors, by
students, by faculty. If we all get
together and make a stand we
can force the University to spend,
some money than will benefit
everyone on this campus.

It is time more attention
and money is paid to the health
and well-being of this commu-1.
nity. The dungeon needs to be
remodeled, or at least updated
into something that would pass

Quote of the Week

“You’re undressing me. "‘
Why aren’t you a Beta?”

V

on the President’s pants

Freshmen usually have a roman-
tic idea about what Fancy Dress is,
and now it’s coming. It is not
going to be like the sock hops you
went to in high school. No, this is
isn’t just a dance or even a prom.

“Before you
know it,
Cinderella is
really a
pumpkin, and
Prince Charming
is cleaning up
his fraternity
basement.”

l
This is a ball. Freshmen want to be
either Cinderella or Prince Charm-
ing. They try their hardest to make
Fancy Dress a romantic evening to
remember, from bringing their date
flowers, to threading sequins into
their hair, Guys: Do NOT try the

sequin thing. These romantic fresh-
men are bound and determined to
fall madly in love with their FD
date and to spend the comingspring
term basking in the sun at Goshen
with the new-found love of their
lives. Unfortunately, they have
forgotten that in what passes for a
dating scene at Washington and
Lee, this seldom happens. Before
you know it, Cinderella is really a
pumpkin, and Prince Charming is
cleaning up his fraternity basement.

By sophomore year, you’re still
pretty bitter about freshman year.
Sophomores are bound and deter-
mined to go to the ball with some-
one they are in no way romanti-
cally interested in. Sophomore
women will go with some guy who
asked them the Wednesday be-
fore, whose last name they aren’t
sure of. Sophomore men will get
fixed up with their best buddy’s
girlfriend’s hallmate’s cousin from
Hollins. Either gender of sopho-
mores will ditch their date and
spend the rest of the weekend
avoiding them to smoke cigarswith
their friends.

Junior year, W&L students have

centrating on their jobs. This is )r
where the We Scandal hes’ - an anonymous upperclassman after a hard
t : - ~
Nex week Who are the Wednesday mght. .
winners and losers?
rt
I-' - av
Elhr 1Rtng—t11m iﬂln
- it
typically redeemed themselves Executive Editor .............................................................. ....A11ne Alvord
from the disaster of the previous Managing Editor ........................................................... ..H1llary Coombs
. News Editor ....................................................................... ..Tarah Grant
year and have a Steady boyfriend Assistant News Editor ....................................................... ..Tom Wadlow

or girlfriend they go with. It’s a
safe, easy date. There are no ma-
jorfights ordisappointments. You
have a solid time, but somehow
feel there is something missing.

Your senior year, you start
to feel sentimental. You re-
mark to your friends again and
again that this is your very last
undergraduate FD. Who knows
where you’ll be in a year? So
why not make this one count?
This Fancy Dress, you know,
will be the best ever.

Your date is a really good
friend. You and your other
friends spend thousands ofdol-
lars at The Palms, are too hazy
to see the decorations, throw
up on President Elrod and have
a fantastic time. At least, you
have understood the true spirit
of FD. No, not heavy drinking,
although that might be a part of
it. The best way to approach
FD is to have no expectations
except for it to be a really good
time.

dent.

and obscenity.

.............................. ..Jason Zacher
........................ ..Bethany Bauman 7"
............................. ..David Balsley

Editorial Page Editor ........................ ..
Sports Editor ................................... ..
Features Editor ................................ ..
Assistant Features Editor ............... ..
Photographer .................................. ..

 

........................... ..Mark Slomiany

........... ..Neal Kohl, Blake Lovelace

Business Managers .......................... .. _
............................. ..Rebecca Cuny T

Advertising Assistant ....................... ..

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington. Virginia. Funding
for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive 1'
Editor and Business Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters. All
submissions must be in the Phi office. room 208 of the University Center,
by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi )-
reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters,
columns. and "My Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial_Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060 ’
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

........... ..Andrea Ewing

 

 

n MARCH 10, 1997 PAGE 3

V

. «Banaralln

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

    

 

for three classes each week and re-
hearsing on the weekends.
Crockett enjoys sceingthe results

lvlusicd Lades celebrate
Women's Hsiorg Mon

BY ANDREA EWING I

)( fh' stud t ’ h rd w irk Accord PHI FEATURES EDITOR
0 IS on s a ( . -
One of the few university lan- ing to Crockett, the play improves _ . . _
jguagc plays in Virginia will be per_ hisstudcms. Sc”-monfidcncc in their WhatdoEthe|Waters,Billiel-lolitlayand Barharastreissand
f0fmed here this WC€l<- ability to speak conversational Gcr- have m common?

H ' Generalprobe, 3 German-lam man. Songsperformedbycaclifemalewillbeapartofthe Musicnl
, guage group, will present the nine- “The focus ofwhatwe do is notso Ladws program 8 p'm' Tuesdlw eV°."‘“3 in the Genemlsi
.' teenth century Viennese play Einen much a polished production, but Headquarters‘TeeelebmleW"me“’SH'5t°’Y M°“”‘iw°“‘e“’5
ilJux will er sich machenon Wednes- rallier a language-learning experi- Fewm’ Office of Swdem Aetlvmes ‘me Asseelme Dem‘ “ii
‘day and Thursday of this week. ence forthe students,” Crockcttsaid. S‘":l°“‘5 are f’°‘5_P°“5°_""8 ‘he °"°_“‘- _ ” _

Y " Generalprobe consists ofboth fac— “I most enjoy taking a role in the Al°”gw"hd'Se"SS‘“gw°me"'”m”5'e’ Head°f{‘d‘”S°'Y
fulty and students of German. The play myself,” Crockett added. Board for Women 5 Forum’ Samh_N' Meldmm S‘“d’ “ihey
‘group’ whose name translates to “Other than that, r most enjoy the perform several songs by female artists.” The Musical Ladies

“dress rehearsal» and puns waSh_ progress the Students make: thatas will present information about the history ofwomen in music
no ington and Lee/S..GenemlS,,, has pep what I do’ pm a language teacher], and present different songs pertaining to the artists being dis-
formed plays at W&L since 1992. According to Crockett, develop- cussed‘ _ _ _
' According to Professor Roger ing this self-confidence and over- D"eet°r ef Student Ae“"‘“e5 and Residence Pmgmms
‘ Crockett, who co-directs the play photo courresy or pmressor. ccker coming their fears of being able to hf/llﬁhelleL-ll;‘:f:ard5°“aPPT°a°hed W0mF"’§:0|'Um8nd'f1Sk€d
i and performs in the role of the evil , perform in a foreign language are ' t ey w°"_ ‘_ ete e°SP°"S°r_a" event °’ emenis Hlslory

; "uncle, this year’s performance is “a Generalprobe Weds German and theater. the greatest challenges faced by the Memh’ wmeh ‘5 March‘ Mme”! Ladies was a"‘°“g Seveml
.. comedy of mistaken idemity_,, Generalprobe pr-oducesaGe1-man language play each year, including students_ _ suggestions. Chosen because of interest, the performance
, ‘flt is a nineteenth century last yea.r'sDon Juan, whose weddingsceneisshown here. “I have the greatest respect for Shefld aiipealteege“e’ela“d‘e“ee°_ _ ” _
j'Viennese farce, in which the author, the students for that reason,” lee“ tk"°wm“eheb°“t“'°me”'"h'5‘°'y’ Meldrumsmdi
" Johann Nostroy, takes certain out- ourgroup,the Generalprobe, is dedi- Members of Generalprobe con- Crockett said_ “a"dIT°°°g“lZedthe namesofonl)’afewofiheanlslsssoa'0‘

I ' rnoded oonvontions to task, in par- cated to putting on a play that can be struct the sets themselves with funds Both Crockett and Perkins prom- Ofthe mformailon Should be new-”

ll

_ticular the arrangement of marriages
_"for financial gain,” said Crockett.
The plot of the play revolves
around two young lovers who try to
k‘ outwit the girl’s uncle, who has in-
tended her for someone else; a man
‘ who wishes to have one last fling
"before assuming his new, monoto-
nous career; and the farcical events
9 which combine these two stories.
According to Crockett, although
the play is performed entirely in

 German, most students should be

able to understand and enjoy the
performance.
“The play is highly gestural, and

enjoyed by people who may not
speak German very well,” said
Crockett_.

“It’s a comedy: even if you don’t
understand it, you will laugh,” said
Liz Perkins, who portrays
Christopher] in the play.

Also, the plot will be described in
the synopsis in detail.

Among the difficulties of produc-
ing the play, Crockett lists the prob-
lems associated with building the
sets in his home.

“Constructing sets in my den has
always been difficult, but it’s a nice
challenge,” notes Crockett.

provided by the German department.

Crockett also lists the difficulty
of learning lines in German as one of
the major challenges associated with
producing the play.

“I credit the students with being
able to do it,” Crockett said.

Perkins adds that the lines are
especially difficult to remember be-
cause they differ from standard Ger-
man: they are written in a Viennese
dialect, occasionally with vernacu-
lar, incorrect grammar.

Uptothe challenge, Generalprobe
has been working on the play since
the beginning of January, meeting

isethat the play willbealotoffunto
watch.

“lt’s going to be full of surprises,”
said Perkins.

One evening this week, go see the
surprises which Generalprobe has in
store for you. Who knows? You
may pick up a little German in the
process.

Generalprobe will per arm on
Wednesday, Marc/z I2, and Thurs-
day, March 13, at 8:00 p.m in

Keller Theater. Admission for
the performances are free. The au-
dience is encouraged to sit in the
front rows.

" T he N udes promise 50 ulful performance

I

K

*lVl“II scheduled to host Bi

4?.

4.

1!

BY DAVID BALSLEY

 

{BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

Dll issues wornin

ern-day tampons might be even more

endometriosis in monkeys.

:_PHl STAFF WRITER

About 1500 B.C., an Egyptian de-
;scribed how lint was inserted into a
Iwoman’s vagina to prevent conception.
The Museum of Menstruation, located in
iMaryland,speculatesthatthismighthave
been the first tampon, thousands ofyears
;before Tampax revealed its invention in
£1936. Recent reports suggest that mod-

barbaric than lint.

The major brands—-Playtex, o.b.,
Tampax and KotexA contain rayon.
Rayon contains dioxin, a potentially
harmful by-product of the chlorine-
bleachingprocessatpaperand pulpmills.
In 1992, the Food and Drug Administra-
tion announced that dioxin was carcino-
genic,toxictotheimmune and reproduc-
tive system, and could cause birth de-
fects. Dioxin has also been linked to

many people are exposed to dioxin
through polluted water, poultry and ﬁsh,
women are bombarded with much more
through tampon use.

Aecordingto a February 1995 Village
Voice article, Tambrands Inc. said that
dioxin is not a“public health threat.” The
EnvironmentalProtection agency claims
that dioxin’s real threat comes from ex-
tended exposure. Since about 73 million
women use tampons, and on average

EBY C.E. MILLER
"PHI STAFF WRITER

 The 16th annual Christian
I Emphasis Weekend willbe held
V at Virginia Military Institute.
BigTentRevival,which was
nominated for a Grammy this
9 year will perform at 7:30 p.m.
BTR has released two compact
discs will perform “Open All
Night” and a self—titled release.
Three singles from “Open All
Night” have reached number
one on the Christian Rock chart
including “Mend Me.” The
concert is $5 at the door.
“The cadets actually brought
BTR to my attention,” Chap-
lain to the Corps of Cadets Jim

It Park said, “I didn’t know how

if

popular they were.”
The Chaplain’s office hosts
this event organized by mem-

bers of the Religious Activities
Committee. Many of the local
churches and local colleges are
also involved in the weekend.
Park is expecting 1,000-1,200
people to attend the event.
The weekend willbeginwith
a sit-down candlelight dinner
in Moody Hall. Reservations
are required and the cost is $5.
Amanda lBradford a Washing-
ton and Lee junior will sing.
Lt. C l. Tom Hemingway
willspeal:on thetheme“A Life
for a Life for a Lifetime.” The
theme focuses on the applica-
tions of Jesus Christ’s death
and his r surrection for Chris-
tians irl: today’s society.
Hemingway served two tours
in Vietn m. Afterretiring from
Marine orps, hejoined Prom-
ise Kecpers, an all male Chris-
tian Organization. He nowtrav-

..~....;; x.'.;.'.“I..-13.2.: '..:r:*::;. _*;.'; .

els around the country speak-
ing for the organization .

Recording artist Danny
Bryam will perform in
Lejeune Hall on Saturday at
7:30 p.m. Thisisafree eon-
cert and Bryam will perform
songs from his five compact
discs. He has played to au-
diences around the world and
returns to his sixth perfor-
mance at the Christian Em-
phasis Weekend.

Miss Virginia 1996
Michelle Kang will speak
after BTR’s performance
Sunday night. She willshare
some of her experiences as a
Christian Miss Virginia.

“This is not just a VMl
event,” Park said, “it is a
way to involve the area
Christiansin an eventthe cel-
ebrates Christ.”

 

icni icvivai

3 “J.

g ogoinsi rogon iompons

Although

uses 11,400 tampons in a lifetime, “ex-
tended” exposure is an understatement to
what women experience. (7 February
1995, Village Voice)

To order 100% cotton, unbleached
tampons, write to: Natracare, 191 Uni-
versity Blvd, Suite 294, Denver, CO,
80206.

To find out more about tampons, the
Museum of Menstruation, and other
women’s issues, check out the website:
http://critpath.org/~tracy/spot.html.

   

Big Tent Revival, pictured here, will perform at VMI’s
Christian Emphasis Weekend.

“I have heard a lot of enthusiasm,” sophomore Kender
Archer said, “It [Musical Ladies] sounds really good  and
should be fun.”

SOUTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE
INCREASES RECRUITING EFFOFIIS

BY C. E. MILLER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Southern Virginia College is playing a member game.

The College is trying to increase enrollment by 200 percent.
Seventy-four students enrolled last September under broad
curriculum changes introduced by a new Board Trustees . In
January, the student body increased to 99 students.

“The first students really took a chance in coming here,” Vice
President of SVC Ralph J. Olmo said, “they are truly pioneers.”

If the college hopes to survive, it needs to steadily increase

“J Sweeps of Wimerjs ee“_° and enrollment. By the year 2000, Olmo and the Board of Trustees
PHI FEATURES EDITOR Pafks’ l_3l“°5 and J3ZZ‘““ged predict 600 students will be attending classes.
g‘“‘3_r rlffs Create“ fresh end “We have a very high attrition rate,” Olmo said, “which
Students and faculty of sophlsucaied Soimci unlike emakes these numbers all the more difficu.lt to meets’?
Washington and Lee Univer- any other m mujsleei  9 "‘Bec'au:se'lnios't ofthe students are irieiiibers-61°-"l‘he’Chiurch of
sity are invited to come en- Rehx magazme Calls the Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, most of the freshman males
joy the “sophisticated and group “fhe most fun you can leave after the first year to serve missions. The church requires
soulful” sound of the Nudes have wlth your Clothes e"’” that all 19-year-old men serve a two year mission.
this Friday. ?:d_ThfbNewt_Yf0rlke_r Pralees According to Olmo, there are four different ways the college
I; The Nudes consist of e” ea” ' "_’ Jazz""' is recruiting students for next year.
Walter Parks, who sings and ﬂeeted folk m”S'e'” The first and most effective tool is word of mouth. Each
plays guitar, in addition to Come hear the Nudes for memberofthecollege,fromtheboardtostudents,isexcited and
writing the group’s songs, yourself ""5 Fnday at 9:00 eager to talk about the school. Members from the school
and Stephanie Winters, who P'm' m ‘he GHQ‘ participated in ﬁresides with the other prominent Latter-day
‘V sings and plays cello. . Saint schools: Brigham Young University and Ricks College.
The Nudes’ recordingsin- Fridays! Win SP°n5°1' the The firesides are gatherings of LDS members interested in
clude their self-titled debut Nu_des.anacousticduo.this attending college.
CD and 3 1995 retease titted Friday in the GHQ. The The college hopes to join the mid-Atlantic tour with the two
“Vg]Vet Sofa,” In addition, group’s Walter‘ Parks and schools. This would allow them to reach audiences in many
the duo has been featured on Slﬁephaﬁue Winters are states. So far SVC has talked with students in Atlanta, Ga. and
’_ several compilation albums. 0W“ 91‘e- Norther" Virginia-
A press release for the Photo courtesy of Thesecondrecruitmentmethodisspecialeventssuchasopen
_  group states, “The emotional Mrcheue Richardson housesthat allowthe local public to get more information about
5 ,r ; the school. SVC also holds firesides of its own that sometimes

feature well-known speakers

For its third point of attack, SVC recently mailed information
to 11,000 who took the Scholastic Achievement Test or the
American College Test and marked that they were LDS.

“It is too early to tell how effective these mailings were,”
Olmo said, but we hope to reach those students who don’t know
there is a third opportunity to attend a college with a high
percentage of LDS students.”

Lastly,thecollege has maintaineditsequine network. Before
the board, change, SVC was well-known for its excellent
horsemanship program. The school is commited to preserving
that image and hopes to attract students who are interested in its
equine program.

Although SVC has not yet received accreditation, it has
submitted its application to award degrees to the Virginia State
Education Authority.

“I am confident that we stand a good chance of approval,”
Olmo said.

The school has decided to enhance its areas ofcoiicentration
to include specialized subjects such as pre-law, business, and
pre-med to help students in preparation for graduate school.
Currently, the school’s liberal arts program center around the
great arts,astudy ofliterature from Plato to William Shakespeare.

    

I Photo byeMarkiSIomlany
Frank Roupas, a ballroom instructor, instructs
two of his students in Fairfax Lounge. Roupas
offers lessons every Tuesday and Wednesday.

 

  

PAGE 4

ADVERTISING

VISA

Alliiiillit-=@JEfll,i[1Ii[i$

102 W. Washington St.

GET "R€‘(<l®l}
FOR FTINCU ®’R€<§é§

—Tuxedos for rent

—100% worsted wool tuxedos for sale
—Fancy cummerbunds and tie sets
—Fiasks

—Duckhead Shorts

Spr_ing arrivals daily!
MASTERCARD
(540) 463-5383

STUDENT CHARGE

 /4 

25 N. Main St.
Make your appointment now for Fancy Dress.

Tanning special: lO visits for $50
through end of March.

Leg and bikini waxing for those
silky smooth legs; or put some “spring” in
your hair with foil highlights.

Pamper yourself with a relaxing facial, or
head and neck massage using Aveda products.‘

Call for appointment or just stop in
465-6005

QR

 

ONG SHOW

Wednesday, March i
8:00 p.m.
(LE9. Dorem.uslGym    

starring Gongmasier
PRESIDENT JOHN ELROD
with M.C.

2

mac“ WES ARMSTRONG <5}
5’t0“ eo\°.\d’rt\°\‘ Admission 35 ’’)OO//;‘9
595x09 Proceeds to benefit /.9 

The American Cancer Society

/2‘

Entry Forms Available March 3 in the Univ. Cir.

Deadline March 9, 6:00 p.m.
Mandatory Meeting March i0, 6:00 p.m.
Sponsored by: Kappa Alpha Theta
and Fridays!

AN'I@NOW

YOUR RENTAL FOR

FANCY DRESS
SPECIAL PRICES

Basic Black Tux: $50.00
Black Tails: $54.00
Shoes $9.00 with Tux Rental

Buy a Tux for $275.00

The College Town Shop
111 West Nelson Street

‘ E nah: Vt: no Ionauvai
‘far: 8. ‘ﬂrlmlx

Lxexxnghtxi, Virgtma 24-1356

   

Bring Home
the Bacon

 

tasty fresh bacon, lettuce and tomato on your choice
of fresh baked bread. Made to order while you wait!

453 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Virginia
463-3322

THEE

 

MARCH 10, 1997

Remembering
our idols

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

The recent re-appearance of
Mark Hammill, who (as you prob-
ably know by now) portrays Luke
Skywalker in the “Star Wars” tril-
ogy, has lead me to wonder, “What
ever happened to all the other ac-
tors and performers I grew up
with?” So, I did a little investi-
gating. The following is a compi-
lation of some of the more inter-
esting results of my search:

John Ritter—— John Ritter, per-
haps best remembered as the only
male resident of the apartment in
the TV show “Three’s Company,”
can currently be seen in Billy Bob
Thornton’s “Swing Blade.” In the
movie, which has received na-
tional critical acclaim, Ritter por-
trays one of the few gay residents
of a small southern town. (Inter-
estingly, Ritter’s character in
“Three’s Company” was a hetero-
sexual man who had to pretend to
be gay in order to keep from being
expelled from his aprtment by his
landlord, Mr. Roper (Don Knots).)

Billy Idol —— Beloved by fans
in the 80’s, Idol rose to success
with songs such as “White Wed-
ding” and “Eyes Without A Face.”
His career in music, despite a few
comeback attempts, has since
dwindled. Idol has moved into
another arena of performance:
acting. He can be seen in Oliver
Stone’s “The Doors” as one of
Jim Morrison’s friends. Idol has
also recently appeared in the lead
role of The Who’s concert perfor-
mance of “Quadrophenia,” a rock
opera which traces the frustrations
ofa bellboy who becomes disillu-
sioned with his rock idols.

Gary Coleman Gary
Coleman, best known for wanting
to know what Willis is talking
about on “Diff’rent Strokes,”
nearly vanished during the late
1980’s and early ]990’s. In the
meantime, tabloid newspapers re-
ported every sort of outrageous
story concerning his activities.
Coleman has since resurfaced in a
900 number psychic hotline tele-
vision advertisement, appearing
alongside Dionne Warwick.

Hammill himself, after distanc-
ing himself as far as he could from
the role which made him famous,
gained a reputation for being a
second-class actor and struggled
to find parts in movies and plays.
However, his re-appearance has
proven an adage which children
ofthe 80’s everywhere have come
to regard as true: your pop culture
idols never really disappear. And
you probably thought you would
never see Gary Coleman again.

The Ring-tum Phi
is loolzing for a
cartoonist.
Can you draw?
Are you funny?
Wen, it could be
Y

U!

U!
Excited at the
prospect?
Call Jason Zaclaer
at 463- 2556.

$7.00 per hour plus
$150.00 per month hous-
ing allowance. Largest
rental service on the
Outer Banks of North
Carolina (Nags Head).
Call Donafor application
and housing info 800-
662-2122.

 

   

MARCH 10, 1997 ADVERTISING PAGE 5
IN THE BLEACHERS by steve Moore

 
 
       
     

  

~ E NON 0UlTUll BY
0 , NE ,6 T 3
K Ho Y  , \V|'E-E
L , ’ lN...Ar~lD1>cEN'T §§  
FOKGETTOBEGIN gg
Willi A DEEP, -
CLEANE>lNG BREATH. %

2

   
      
      
     
  
   

\‘mo\)(>\kT OUR
FlNN_ RE\NiARV>
‘N0uu> BE Ix
L\TTLE MORE

 

 
       

 
    

  

   
 
 

      

   
     
     
 

 

   

°;.9.9:.;:".:-.:°..*::.€*.:W-'"°~  p
“'1’Sn0la ariicua lar eiroul. Ut- an -ifs In r paration forchildbirth, Vivian an .»
‘I P puttilngyup ag good figgtﬁv d g ifully attendaweekly Le Mans cg: .   "." ._ NE FWmEH_NNT“=F«;
A A E    *.§‘$‘ii‘?t%é:%fo;2‘5;“E;‘éR
« l’I'llSSlOI’lS ounse OI‘  M-We 
‘ > A. x  mnucmooes...
5 . The W&L admissions office is now  ‘A  A    A \ A ...... .....................,..........,w-_-.y
  accepting applications for a possible SEE vigil/;[%mWlLE.V
‘ admissions counselor position. All UK; CA _Lm_,_ .4’?  "j .. W "" .
interested graduating seniors should   A if C    
submit a cover letter and resume no  ‘ 5  1*   j  ‘Nu.-YY%;(C\J€C:\\
“‘ ’:./,'’',‘v '  -.431‘  C-LE
N later than Wednesday, X28 .     M   °3‘Net‘ee was
March 26, I997 to TUE HRS? us: °F A
L _ éEN’TlN\ENT as ix §
.. Tulia M. Kozak “E‘*°““‘“"’ *°°L'"   g
‘ Associate Dean of Admission rggggtgk 
"-; ~< . Office of Admissions ¥—————-J 
 "' V   I .   L‘   _  . . ‘V3 '2?-la~\\/lE— a
Class Officers/E.C. Representatives/Student Judicial Council
  Positions:
; , A SJC Secretary
i . Senior Law Class E.C. Representative (1)
E Intermediate Law Class E.C. Representative (1)
. .. Senior Class E.C. Representatives (2)
C Junior Class E.C. Representatives (2)
1  Sophomore E.C. Representatives (2)
i »« Senior Class President
V Senior Class Vice Presidents (2)
A ~ Junior Class President
Junior Class Vice President
* Sophomore Class President
. Sophomore Class Vice President
. Petitions are due Monday, March 17 at 6:30 p.m. in the E.C. Office.
« This meeting is MANDATORY for all candidates.
1‘ Petitions are available in front of Carol Calkins’ office in the University Center.

 

 

3

PAGE 6

Film iRing-t

PO

LACROSSE, TENNIS, BASEBALL, BASRFTBALL, GOLF

. 3,‘

t.T)-5

 
    
 

 

sportsmiscenany   

 

BY ScoiTTiBookw,

 
 

. . I felt like. doi-ﬁg W3$.wr_iti:_ng a colum‘"n‘i1—1;': I was thinking about running a .
A::,.BeSt0f:At,h. B.. .. . ..  .. . . . 

   

ay" ouldmake ﬁx ‘

_stabi$éd,‘shEnifiind

Sincefithisiwasfuithe"weekendof ’m'y:21_st  thelast  t

_1g Fan eol_um_n,'_ but that would requiremore’ time to dig,upfH,

Support the National
Committee to
Prevent

Child Abuse

at the
Kappa Delta
Shamrock Project
Bake Sale
Today and Tomorrow
Outside the Co-op

Men’s lax dominates Women ’s lax opens
W&L Invitational

ERIKA WOODSON
PHI STAFF WRITER

This weekend marked the Wash-
ington and Lee lnvitational Lacrosse
Tournament. The tourney promised
exciting match-ups, presumably be-
tween the 11th (Cortland) and 9th-
ranked (W&L) teams in the country.
These match-ups never happened how-
ever, due to Greensboro’s upset of
Cortland in the opening round. Three
of the four games turned out to be
mismatched, but provided reasons to
cheer if you were Ande Jenkins, Tom
Fallace orjust a General in general.

W&L (#9) manhandled unranked
Shenandoah Saturday in the first game,
beginning at noon, to the tune of 26-2.
High scorers were junior Tom Fallace
with 6 goals, senior Shane McLaughlin
with 5 goals and 1 assist and senior
Ande Jenkins with 3 goals and 3 as-
sists. Twelve Generals scored on hap-
less Shenandoah, which failed to score
until the second half of the fourth
quarter.

Cortland (#11) and unranked
Greensboro then took the ﬁeld at 2:30
p.m. to play out what should have

been a repeat performance. Greens-
boro pulled the shocker of the tourna-
ment,however,upsettingCortland10-
9 and setting up the next days m‘s-
matched games in the championship
and consolation brackets.

Cortland met and conquered
Shenandoah Sunday’s noon game,
making amends forthe previous day’s
loss by posting 14 goals to their
opponent’s 5 to take third place in this
year’s tournament.

The championship game started
with a goal from Greensboro, but then
the Generals took control. The awe-
some W&L defense limited their op-
ponent from every possible angle as
the offense 5 .epped up their game as
well as their scoring records.

Jenkins reset his old scoring record
(set at Shenandoah the previous sea-
son) with 7 goals and 6 assists. Fallace
had another incredible day, netting 4
goals and 5 assists for a grand total of
15 points for the weekend’. When the
dust had cleared, W&L had triumphed
with another huge win--17-7.

The Generals have their next home
game the Saturday afternoon of FD
Weekend when they play Franklin &
Marshall at 2 p.m.

W&L names Detwiler
tennis center manager

COURTESY OF
W&L SPORTS INFORMATION

Washington and Lee University an-
nounced that David Detwiler has been
named as Manager of the Duchossois
Tennis Center and an assistant
women’s tennis coach at the school.
Detwilerisa1989 graduate ofFurman
University and spentfthe past eight
years as Tennis Director at Shadow
Oaks Racquet Club in Greenville,
South Carolina. V

“David adds a wealth of playing,
teaching and coaching experience to
our tennis offerings,” said Director of
Athletics Mike Walsh. “His knowl-
edge, experience and enthusiasm will
be a tremendous boost to the W&L,
Lexington and Roekbridge County
tennis community.”

Detwiler will oversee the daily
operations of the Duchossois Tennis
Center, a spectacular four-court in-
door facility that was recently com-
pleted and hosted its first competition
Feb. 28. The funding of the facility
was donated by Richard Duchossois,
W&L Class of 1944, to honor former
W&L president Dr. John D. Wilson
and his wife Anne. The facility fea-
tures a dramatic gatehouse entrance
and a spacious spectator gallery that

runs the length of all four courts.

“Through the generosity of Mr.
Duchossois, W&L possesses an in-
door tennis facility that is second to
none,” said Walsh. “We’re proud to
open it to our faculty, staff and stu-
dents and equally proud that the build-
ing fits the architectural beauty of the
front campus.”

The building will open to faculty,
staffand students Mar. 17. Court time
can be reserved by calling the
DuchossoisTennis Center at 463-81 18
and courts can be reserved one day in
advance. -

Detwiler was a four-year
letterwinner at Furman and served as
a team captain in 1988. He won two
Southern Conferencesinglestitles and
three doubles titles during his career
while helping the Paladins to two
league championships.

in 1993 he won the National 25
clay court doubles championship and
the Southern 25 singles clay court
championship. The Lancaster, Ohio
native was also a nationally ranked
USTA junior player.

“I’m looking forward to the chal-
lenge of getting a new place started,
and I really like the college environ-
ment,” said Detwiler. “l’ve been to a
lot of indoor tennis facilities, and this
is one of the best l’ve seen.”

Women’s tennis opens
by trouncing Hollins

Scorr BOOKWALTER
PHI STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team opened its
spring season Wednesday after-
noon by trouncing Hollins Col-
lege, 5-0, in

Lexington. The Generals had
relatively few problems with
Hollinsthroughoutthe rain—short—
ened match, especially in singles
play,wherejuniors Natalia Garcia
and Ericka Shapard lost only one
game between them.

Garcia, playing once again in
her customary #1 slot, ran her ca-
reer singles record to 53-11 by
destroying Hollins’ Ashley Ro-
nald, 6-0, 6-0.

Please submit a cover
letter and resume to
the box in front of
Carol Calkin’s office in
the University Center.

Hollins’ Cristen Morgan man-
aged to win one game against
Shapard at #2, but that was all she
could do as Shapard dispatched
her, 6-0, 6-1.

The W&L rout continued in
doubles play as Garcia and sopho-
more Mary Celeste Foster pounded
on Ronald and Morgan, 8-2, at the
#1 spot.

Shapard and junior Bryce
Bendall followed suit in their #2
match by winning 8-2, and fresh-
men Ashley Buck and Lindsey
Collins debuted in impressive
fashion at #3 by blowing away
their Hollins counterparts, 8-1.

The women’s tennis team,
ranked fourth in Division ill, will
nexttaketothe courts Thursday at
home against Kenyon College.

JENNlFER AGIESTA
PHI STAFF WRITER

W&L Women’s Lacrosse opened
their ODAC season with 2 wins this
week against Bridgewater and
Randolph-Macon.

The Generals disposed of
Bridgewater easily in a 14-4 victory
Wednesday afternoon. ErikaSnyder’s
3 goals boosted her to within one goal
of seventh place on the all-time goals

season with two wins

MARCH 10, 1997 '.

Photo by Mark Slomiany;

scored list at W&L.
The Generals win over Randolph-

' Macon on Saturday was an important

one for the team. in one ofthe biggest '

games of the season, W&L pulled out
a 6-5 win. The game was tied 5-5 until
the last few minutes ofthe game when
freshman Katherine Riddle scored the
game winner.

The 3-0 opening record is a spring-
board for a season full of potential for
the Generals. The women face
Lynchburg away Thursday.

Golf

The Generals will open their sea-
son today at E1on’s Max Ward Invi-
tational.

Baseball

The Generals first win ofthe sea-
son was memorable as W&L
knocked off three-time defending

on Wednesday. The victory in
W&L’s home opener snapped
Bridgewater’s record 31—game
ODAC winning streak. Freshman
Christian Batcheller went 3-for-4
with two doubles and four RBI and
leadoff hitter Tucker Bixby was 2-
for-2 with three runs scored. Sopho-
more Bob Weston went six innings
to pick up the win. Last week W&L
fell to Mary Washington 9-5 in its
only game. Freshman David Hanson
went 3-for-3 with two RBI.
W&Lhosted WcstVirginiaTech
Saturday in a doubleheader. The
Generals won the first game of the
seriesl 1-9, the second 18-6.

Women’s Basketball

The Generals first trip to the
ODAC women’s basketball tourna-
ment ended with a 66-52 loss to
Guilford in the Salem Civic Center.
The Generals trailed by seven at the
half before trimming the margin to
37-35 early in the second half, but
Guilford went on a 14-0 run to pull
away. Freshman Ansley Miller led
W&Lwith l8pointsandToniaDcan
added 12 points and 15 rebounds.

Freshman Ansley Miller and

ODAC champion Bridgewater10-8*

Jock Shorts

sophomoreAmberHinkle were both
named to the honorable mention All-
ODAC team. Miller led W&L in
scoring (13.5 ppg), three-pointers
(28) and steals (45). Hinkle aver-
aged 11.2 points and 7.2 rebounds
and was W&L’s leading scorer in
eight ofthe fmal13 games, including
two 25-point games.

Men’s Tennis

Mar. 1 the 18th-ranked Generals
fell 6-1 to third-ranked Emory. W&L
won the doubles point in the loss to
Emory, but then lost all six singles
matches. However, four of those six _
singles losses went to three sets with
two of them being decided 7-5 in the
final set.

W&L had a big weekend against
Ohio schools. The Generals defeated
21st-ranked Wooster 5-2 Saturday
but fell to 16th-ranked Denison 5-2
on Sunday.

Women’s Tennis

The Generals opened up their
spring schedule with a rain—short-
ened 5-0 victory over Hollins Feb.
26. W&L won all three doubles
matches and then Natalia Garcia and
Ericka Shapard picked up straight set
victories in singles before the match
was called.

W&L also had a match scheduled
at Randolph-Macon on last Wednes-
day, but that match was rained out.
W&L’s next match will be Thurs-
day, March 13 when it hosts 1995
NCAA Division lll champion
Kenyon.

—Cour!csy W&L Sports Informrztion

Editor, Fling-tum Phi
Business Manager, Fling-tum Phi
Editor, Calyx
Business Manager, Calyx
Editor, Political Review
Editor, Journal of Science
Editor, Ariel
Editor, Arete

The Washington & Lee Publications Board is now
accepting applications for the positions of

All material must be
received no later than
Friday, March 28,
1997. Interviews
conducted on
Tuesday, April 1, 1997.

 

 

