Q‘

"Q7-@§“

|
I

U112 iliing-tum iﬂlii

JAMES cs. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNNEMITY
LEXINGTON. VA 20400

DEC 0 9 1996

VOLUME 98, NUMBER 13

WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

DECEMBER 6, 1996

«GENERAL
NOTES

 
 

WHO’S WHO HONORS ELROD:

Fans of Mimi Elrod will be delighted to hear that she has been
selected to appear in Who’s Who ofAmerican Women, 1997-
98

Who's Who of American Women is a guide to 28,000 of
today’s most inﬂuential women. To be chosen for inclusion,
candidates must have attained a signiﬁcant achievement in their
ﬁeld.

Mrs. Elrod has a Ph.D. in child development and sewed as
assistant director of admissions at W&L from 1986 until 1990.
She is currently the associate director of special programs and
director of the Summer Scholars program at W&L

In addition, she is active in Project Horizon, Total Action
Against Poverty and the Lexington Presbyterian Church and
was named the 1996 recipient of the Washington and Lee
Women in Leadership Award.

FS PRESENTS DOCUDRAMA:

The Washington and Lee Film Society will screen I Shot
Andy Warhol at the Troubadour this weekend. The ﬁlm, a
dramatic documentary of the shooting of Andy Warhol by
Valerie Solanas and its repercussions, is directed by Mary
Harron.

Showings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday, December 6 and
Saturday, December 7. Contributions are welcomed.

FINANCIAL AID GETS BOOST:

The $1] million gift of Texas millionaire and former W&L
student James Dye will be used in part to expand financial aid,
the Board of Trustees recently decided.

Dye was a student at W&Lfor two years, starting in 1930, but
left due to poor grades and too much socializing at the Sigma
Chi house. He also left the University of Texas after a short stay,
and was employed by his father, one of the richest oil executives
in the Southwest.

His fond memories of the Honor System, speaking tradition
and fraternity life at W&L prompted him to contact the director
of planned gifts in 1991, and his gift of $6 million dollars plus
half of the remainder of the residual estate was made upon his
death in May of 1995, making Dye the second largest gift-giver
in W&L history.

The outright gift of $6 million will be devoted to financial
aid, said President Elrod.

CHYTILO EXHIBITS IN DUPONT:

The sculpture of artist Lynne Chytilo will be on exhibt in
duPont Gallery through Dec. 13. The exhibit is a culmination
of sculptural work created over the past six years that, according
to the artist, “reflects and maps the personal history of the
maker.” ’ vat.-I .. ;_  «

Chytilo teaches ceramics and sculpture at Albion College
and was the artist-in-residence at the Virginia Center for the
Creative Arts at Sweet Briar, Virginia.

Gallery hours are 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday. Admission is free.

ARIEL COLLECTS ENTRIES:

Ariel, a literary arts journal at Washington and Lee, is
currently collecting poetry, prose and artwork for its next
edition. The staff is offering a $25 for the best piece submitted.

Poems and poetry may be submitted to envelopes in Payne
Hall, duPont Hall and the University Center, or call Aaron
Wilkinson at 464-1604 or Tom Leggett at 463-7842.

JEFFREY OPENS AT LENFEST:

Tickets for Jeffrey, Paul Rudnick’s romantic comedy about
gay life, are on sale the Lenfest Center Box Office. The play
runs December 6,7,9, and 11 at 8:00 p.m.; December 8 at 2:00
p.m.; and December 10 at 9:00 p.m. in the Johnson Theatre.

The show contains adult language and situations, and may
not be appropriate for close-minded viewers.

CLUB OFFERS SCHOLARSHIPS:

The National Council of State Garden Clubs offers scholar-
ships of $3,500 to juniors or seniors with a B average majoring
in Botany, Biology or Environmental Concerns. If interested,
contact Dean West-Settle ext. 8748.

PRE-RUSH ORIENTATION:

There will be a mandatory pre-rush orientation for all mem-
bers of the Class of 2000 on Monday, Dec. 9 at 8:00 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. Expectations and procedures for the January fraternity
and sorority rush period and pledge program will be reviewed.

-- complied by Peggy Stunz

Upperclassmen left out in the cold

HAC revamps housing policy

BY HILLARY COOMBS
PHI MANAGING EDITOR

Current residents of university housing will soon
ﬁnd a letter from the Housing Advisory Committee in
their mailboxes.

Why? To inform them that “The Housing committee
voted unanimously to give rising sophomores prefer-
ence for housing in Gaines Hall since sophomores are
required to live in university housing.”

The Student Body Executive Committee appointed
the committee to work with Dean of Freshmen and
Residence Life Dennis Manning “to help formulate
housing policies that will be fair to all students.”

“We’ve been discussing [the policy change] for a
while,” Dean Manning stated. “We reached a decision
before Thanksgiving.”

The dean’s office has been working since then to get
a letter out announcing the committee’s decision.

“There was no conspiracy to keep this until the
newspapers weren’t coming out,” Manningcommented.
“We wanted to make as informed and circumspect a
decision as possible.”

Why change the policy?

“Since the university requires that sophomores live
in university housing, it has to make the accommoda-
tion of the sophomores its first priority in the lottery
process,” committee member Nate Tencza explained.
“lt’s also valuable to designate an area that will be
recognized as a sophomore area and help maintain the
class unity.”

How, exactly, will the plan be implemented?

“We’re still working through the mechanics of the

Service ignites
holiday spirits

BY ERICA PRossER
Pm STAFF WRITER

lotteries,” Manning noted. He did confirm, however,
that the current plan is for any sophomores who do not
win suites in Gaines to be placed in Woods Creek.

“We will deﬁnitely have a sophomore presence in
Woods Creek, but I wouldn’t say in large numbers,”
Manning continued. ‘‘I wish I could forecast that.”

Both the dean and committee members cite the new
policy of men’s winter rush as making it difficult to
discern the number of sophomores who will desire to
live in Gaines.

‘‘It’s also a major factor in the decision that the class
sizes are getting larger, and we don’t know how rush is
going to go this year,” Tencza stated. “There are a lot
of variables that accounted for the decision.”

Tencza and Dean Manning admit that the committee
did discuss the effects of the hazing controversy on the
situation “very indirectly,” in Dean Manning’s words.
They agreed with committee member Sarah Saalﬁeld,
however, that “the hazing thing wasn’t a factor [in our
decision].’’

As for upperclassmen, they “will receive ﬁrst pref-
erence for apartments in Woods Creek,” the letter
continues. “However, the university cannot guarantee
the availability of housing for upperclassmen.”

“With the increasing numbers of students that will
be admitted over the course of the next several years,
some decisions had to be made about housing,”
Catherine Ruth Felton explained the committee’s deci-
ston.

‘‘I think that in the short vision of it people are going
to think it’s a pain, but in the long term it’s something
people are going to have to get used to,” Tencza
concluded.

BY MARK SLOMIANY
PHI STAFF WRITER

 

Photo by Mark Slomiany
The fraternities share their holiday spirit
by contributing to Lexing‘ton’s holiday
decor.

Sororities help
Santa Claus

BY KELLEY ToTrEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

Students are contributing more to the Rockbridge
County community during the Christmas season than
the noise violations from their Christmas Parties.

Pi Beta Pi sorority is sponsoring the Salvation Army
Angel Tree at W&L, giving students the opportunity to
give presents to needy children in the community.

“Christmas seems to bring out a feeling of good will
in people,” said coordinator Erin Rosencrans. “We are
going to a university that is not cheap and getting a good
education. I think the students realize how fortunate we
are and want to do something for the kids in the
community who don’t have even half the opportunites.”

Sorority members have been sitting outside the Co-
op all this week handing out gift cards. The cards
contain the age, sex, clothing sizes, and requested gifts
and toys of each child. Volunteers choose the kid they
want, purchase toys and/or clothes, and then bring their
presents back to the Co-op.

Pi Phi members will be outside the Co-op again next
week to hand out any remaining cards and to pick up the
gifts. All the gifts will be returned by Friday, Dec. 13
and then distributed to the kids.

Some students are signing up to buy gifts together.
“We both don’t have a lot of money, but we really
wanted to do it,” said senior Maggie George who is
participating with junior Frank Vitale.

George and Vitale chose a 20-month-old girl and
plan to buy her Sesame Street’s “Tickle—Me” Elmo doll

. and.some,glothes. .

Last§yeéi:siW&L had 75 children on its Angel Tree
and Rosencrans wanted to increase that number to 100
this year. But because of the high demand from other
organizations in the community to participate,
Rosencrans was only able to get 50 cards.

The kids’ ages range from 8 months to 11 years and
their toy requests include everything from computers
and bikes to puzzles and makeup.

“I think there are going to be some disappointed kids
because a lot of them asked for Super Nintendos and
remote control cars,” junior Greg,Chow said.

When asked what he was buying, though, Chow
indicated that his boy probably won’t be disappointed.

“l’ll get him something extravagent and expensive,”
he said.

Senior Chad Sartini chose a six—year-old boy be-
cause, like Sartini, the boy is a Washington Redskins
football fan. Sartini hopes to find a Redskins’ jacket or
sweatshirt.

“It’s a viable way for us to get involved,” Sartini
said. “We can make some kids’ Christmas a little
better.” ’

‘Last Call’ reminds students they
may not get a second chance

The untimely death of David Thomp- ’
son earlier this year brought the tragedy of
alcohol abuse close at heart in the Wash-

 

 

 

F OPINION

‘ The LPD grinch steals Christmas, while Betsy
procrastinates in GreenLand, and the faculty
steals our autonomy.

F FEATURES

Jeffrey faces life's challenges at the
Lenfest. JGB breathes life into
Dead tonight. Lexington abounds

I with Christmas delights. Bookstore

prepares for annual sale.

F SPORTS

Men's basketball prepares for VMl rematch.

Women’s hoops jump into conference season.

Women's swimming picks up pair of victories.

ll afé welcome to spend an
evening of seasonal cheer and
spirit at the Washington and

Lee University Annual Christmas
Candlelight Service on Thursday, Dec.
12, at 8 pm in Lee Chapel.

This is a Service of Nine Lessons
and Carols that tell the story of biblical
history from the Creation to the Incar-
nation.

The University Chamber Singers,
directed by Gordon Spice, will provide
carols, and Professor of music Timo-
thy Gaylard is the featured organist.

Angela Matney, a senior and a
Chamber Singer, says, ‘‘I'm really ex-
cited about this year’s repertoire. it’s
even better than last year’s.”

According to Matney, the service
will include several beautiful songs
that are outside the mainstream of tra-
ditional Christmas music, songs that
most people haven’t heard before.

As is customary, readers for the
service will be chosen from the univer-
sity community. Acting University
Chaplin Thomas Litzenburg, Jr. will
preside over the service.

The service is sponsored by the
University Federation, a

     
 
 
 

nonde- nomina-
tional stu- dent group
which or- ganlzes
religious andC0m-
munity V0111 n -
teer ser— V106 86-
tivities.

 

Photo by Mark Slomiany

The spectacles of Robert E.
Lee are now on display to the
public in Lee Chapel.

Lee’s glasses
return to W&L

Robert E. Lee’s eyeglasses from
early in his military career will now
be displayed along with his other be-
longings in the Lee Chapel Museum.

The eyeglasses have been in the
possession of the Edgar L. Krotee
family of Baltimore, Md. since Mr.
Krotee’s grandfather, Benjamin
Lewis Krotee, was given permission
to remove them from a house which
he was cleaning out for the Baltimore
Waterworks 73 years ago. The house
was soon after demolished.

The Krotees were convinced by
their friend, W&L alum P. James
Kurapka, to donate the glasses to the
University.

The eyeglasses are in a black
leather case. lnsidethe case reads the
inscription: Robert E. Lee, US Ma-
rine Hospt, No. 21, Stapleton Staten
Island New York.

—— from Phi Staff Reports

ington & Lee community.

In his memory, his parents created the
David Thompson Endowment fund to
sponsor educational programming in re-
lation to alcohol use at W&L. The ﬁrst in
the series brought Brian Smith’s and Bill
Ross’s “Last Call... A Sobering Look at
Alcohol Abuse” presentation to campus
last Tuesday.

Their presentation consisted of short
skits in which different aspects of alcohol
abuse were illustrated. One was a humor-
ous rendition of a field sobriety test in
which the officer, played by Smith, made
Ross balance a unicycle on his head. As
the evening progressed, the skits became
more serious, dealing with subjects such
as date rape.

Acting aside, Ross and Smith told sto-
ries of their experiences with alcohol and
substance abuse. Near the end of the

program, the two recited an array of alco-
hol abuse statistics, keeping the audience’s
attention by interchangeably juggling 6
knives at once.

Potoly Mark Slomia
Bill Ross’s juggling talents
impressed students at Tuesday’s
“Last Call” presentation on
alcohol awareness.

  
 

elease  

 

 

  

PAGE 2

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi,

DECEMBER 6, 1996

Student autonomy is threatened by faculty distrust

Life on the Hill
C. E. Miller ’98

The faculty here doesn’t seem to be-
lieve in the long-standing tradition of stu-
dent autonomy. We sent a petition to the
faculty asking that a board of five students
be created to deal with hazing. The faculty
found the proposal too risky, too unstable,
without precedence and ‘lacking faculty
control, so they amended the proposal.
Now we have a hazing committee, much
like many of the other committees on
campus. There will be three student rep-
resentatives, and three faculty members
on the board. Just for your information,
The Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committee has two student representa-
tives, and The Radiation Safety commit-
tee gets one student representative. (I didn’t

even know we had a Radiation Safety
Committee, but y’all are doing a great job
I can safely say I don’t fear radiation
poisoning.)

I know everyone is sick to death of the
hazing thing, but we cannot let it become
a cover for the eradication of student au-
tonomy at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. The reasons stated at this faculty
meeting for not allowing the proposal to
pass as presented were numerous. Many
professors felt that students haven’t in the
past dealt effectively with hazing, and
sticking five of us on a board wasn’t likely
to increase action. That is where they are
wrong, we need that power, we need to
feel like we are taking charge of our prob-
lems. I "don’t think that the new faculty
members are being hazed by their depart-
ment heads, so it faculty hazing isn’t an
issue they deal with everyday.

There was concern voiced that an all
student committee would not objectively

look at individual cases. I could see con-
cern if the punishment was enacted upon a
particular house or sorority, but the recent
hazing policy moves the blame from the
group to the individual. This is much
closer to the honor system that requires
speciﬁc punishment for specific action.

Faculty members felt that electing a
student board would be difficult because
of the constant change in members. There
would be no continuance in thought, stu-
dents elected now might feel differently
about the issue than those elected in five
years. Somehow a justification was made
for faculty members to be on the board to
create a static nature. Quite an argument,
but what about the honor system? There is
a great amount of ﬂux in the members of
the Executive Committee but no com-
plaints about this upheaval interfering in
the decision making process.

So what if we did make a mistake, what
if someone wasn’t really happy with the

decision made? Believe it or not there is
an appellate process goes right-to the presi-
dent, and then he can decide if we the
students did our job fairly and accurately.
Why have the faculty members interfere?
Many of the younger faculty who were
hired on their freshness seem to not under-
stand the traditions at Washington and
Lee University.

I Speaking of new faculty, how are they
introduced to the traditions here at Wash-
ington and Lee? Are they asked to attend
the Honor System meeting mandatory to
all freshmen? Does their department head
take them aside and encourage them to
read that little white book from cover to
cover? Do they sign cards pledging their
honor to the university? Do they speak
with their peers on the merits of continu-
ing the speaking tradition? Are they in-
formed by department heads about our
unusual exam policy? I don’t know how
much training they receive in these im-

’Twas the Night Before Christmas

portant areas, but I do know of new fac-
ulty who are unfamiliar with what is al-
lowed and not allowed under the Honor
Code. Ifthey have questions about such a
simple policy, it is no wonder that the
faculty as a whole voted to deny us our
autonomy. .

I want trust, I want to be treated
like an adult, not a child requiring
supervision to cross the street. This is
not just your university, it is mine, I
help pay the bills, I was sad and upset
to learn that my peers were being
hurt, and I want to do something about
it. What I don’t want is supervision,
please trust me.

To the faculty: please stop going
above your student’s heads when you
feel it is too much for us to handle.
You imposed winter rush, and now
your tentacles have wrapped around
hazing, what will be the next to go?

101 Procrasti-
nations for the

  

 
   
  

DOIDS  in O»   no p'o_Te5' 9

deer. I Think Thu‘ exceetls The l.'m.'T.
l’i€él<5,l:ll'|e red na5e

Ho - Ho~l-lo and

   
 
 

_ zbeeI",9'~ll'-Youbea1dr'nl<:' 
id. you 5Teo.l ‘Ilia? .s‘l'u.ff .'n The back ? C jugfihly

“kl”? "‘€’- o.bou.f the 3 hi
5 4o'41d.3irl.$.You sollcfling , fdl‘ £33 Y

 

M.

home stretch

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

Christmas in Bosnia: grab your gun

From.-the Right

I Jason Zacher ’98

The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Editor

Since the ﬁghting ended a year
ago, Bosnia has held onto a fragile
peace. Periodically, this “peace”
has heated up, but for the most
part, things are quiet.

The bi ggest reason for this is the
multinational force consisting of
the United States, Britain, France,
and Russia. Bill Clinton had prom-
ised that our troops would be home
for Christmas, but now that prom-
ise, like so many others, has faded
into memory. The Clinton admin-
istration tells us that of our 14,000
troops currently in Bosnia, 8,000
troops are going to stay until March.
NATO tells a different story. They
tell us that the United States will be
providing 10,000 troops that are
staying “well into 1998.”

The NATO Secretary General,
Javier Sloana, said recently that
NATO is considering keeping a
military force in Bosnia to keep the

peace. Richard Holbrooke, the US
diplomat that negotiated the peace
agreement, is urging Clinton to
keep troops in Bosnia, so the civil
war will not start again.

Bosnia is about to embark on
another dangerous step towards
peace, the repatriation of the refu-
gees. In the year since the fighting
ended, few refugees have made it
back to their homes. Under the
Dayton peace agreement, all refu-
gees will be allowed to return home,
but this is easier said then done.
The multinational force is strug-
gling to keep the sides apart, which
will be nearly impossible once all
the refugees return.

The Serbians are yet again stand-
ing in the way of true peace. A few
weeks ago, Muslim refugees and
Serbian police traded gunfire, and
only a ﬂood of American and Rus-
sian helicopters and armored ve-
hicles could stop it. The Serbs
claim that the returning Muslims
are armed, and taking back terri-
tory the Serbs won in the war. The
Muslims only want to return home,
and say they only signed the agree-

dent.

and obscenity.

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁhi

Executive Editor ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord
Managing Editor ........................................................... ..Hillary Coombs
News Editor ....................................................................... ..Tarah Grant
Assistant News Editor ....................................................... ..Tom Wadlow
Editorial Page Editor ........................................................ ..Jason Zacher
Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman
Features Editor ................................................................. ..Dave Balsley
Assistant Features Editor ................................................ ..Andrea Ewing

Photography Editor ....................................................... ..Mark Slomiany
Business Manager ......................... ..
Advertising Manager ...................... ..
Circulation Managers .................... ..

.................................. ..Will Hershey
.................................. ..Chip Harrell
....... ..Daniel Harrell. Justin Laborde

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington. Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi ofﬂce, room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum
Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters,
columns. and “My Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

ment because they could return.

Two problems remain in Bosnia. . ,

First is the tremendous desire for
all sides to return to their homes.
They will probably not find much
to come home to, but the desire is
still strong. Second is history.
These three factions, the Croatians,
the Muslims, and the Serbians, have
been trading gunfire, spears, rocks,
and insults for centuries. There
have been a few periods of relative
peace in the region, when strong
governments or military forces sit
on them. The Ottomans and the
Communists are perfect examples.
When they are not being smoth-
ered, they are fighting each other.
So where am I going with this?
Bill Clinton had the right idea by
sending troops to Bosnia, but the
time is going to come when it will
not make any difference who is
there. America is continuing to be
the world’s policeman." This is
reinforced by the idea to send troops
to Zaire (yet another tribal massa-
cre). If NATO pulls out in March,
Bosnia is going to plunge into civil
war again. All parties involved are
going to return to their homes, and
their pre-war places, and this first
war will probably be only a dress
rehearsal for what is to come.
Why will it be worse? Well, 67
of the 74 indicted war criminals
are still at-large, and no one seems
to want to catch them. This war
sparked hatred and resentment that
has not been seen since Nazi Ger-
many, but he only difference is
after World War II, the leaders
were apprehended or removed from
power. We have no such luck in
Bosnia. Any leaders that do Offl-
cially step down you can bet are

not retiring.
jlngtvhej city Of Pr‘-ij_ed_o__r, there
were 40,000 Muslim and 40,000
Serb residents before the war.
Currently, only a few hundred Mus-
lims remain. The rest are in the
nearby city of Sanski Most. What
is going to happen when those
40,000 Muslims return to find the
40,000 Serbs that drove them
away? I do not think there will be
a town carnival.

This war is far from over. The
sides have fought each other for so
long that nobody has any idea what

 . . neither side
has any idea
what they are

ﬁghting for:
They simply
hate each
other: ”

they are fighting for. They simply
hate each other, and hate is a tre-
mendous emotion for anyone to
overcome, especially a third party.

What are the solutions? Who
knows. Only two things will work:
installing a dictator that will sit on
them, or letting the sides fight it
out until they get sick. There is no
solution. American public opin-
ion will not allow out troops to stay
there indefinitely, and public opin-
ion will not let us let them kill each
other.

Mr. President, I will be praying
for you and the Bosnians.

These last two weeks of classes
are probably the ones most packed
with work of the entire term. Talk
to anyone on campus, and they can
quickly rattle off an array of tests,
papers, presentations, group
projects, meetings, speeches, and
studying that they need to get done.
I’m in the same boat. But lately,
the busier I am, the more aware I
am of how easily I’m distracted.

Imagine yourself sitting down
in front of the computer to get
cracking on something important,
be it a paper, or in my case, a
column. Oh, but it’s 5:00. I’ve
been working hard lately; what
better waypto reward gnyselfihan
watching Oprah for anehour? I
think Oprah is the coolest. She has
shows on really fun things, like
how much it actually costs to make
a lipstick, or what dress her best
friend Gail should wear to the Os-
cars, or how to pick out the right
frames for your pictures. I always
end up sucked in.

Then after that, The Simpsons
are on, and really, it’s such an
intelligently written show that I
really am expanding my mind by
watching it. Next thing you know,
it’s midnight and you’re ﬂipping
back and forth between an
infomercial where they set a car on
fire to shoe how great the car wax
is, and a marathon of The Real
World on MTV, wondering is J oe’s
girlfriend is actually a man. You
know you’ve been there.

The next day, though, you’re
really going to do work, and you sit
down at the computer again. But
you sneeze and realize you are out
of Kleenex. A Wal-Mart run is in
order, but just to get the tissues,
then you are right back to work.
Well, maybe not. Because they
usually have really good prices on
chips, so you should probably pick
up some snack food (you know,
for studying). And hadn’t you
been needing a new shoe rack for
your closet?

And while you’re here, maybe
there are some new CD5 out. Ooh,
and there an article in People that
looks really good. . . you should
pick that up. And you know there
is a whole section of Wal-Mart of
different scents of air fresheners?
You end up spending half and hour

there, wondering if green apple or
peach is best suited to your par-
ticular car/sense of style. Then
you make the mistake of wander-
ing into the section of Christmas
decoration and remember that you
haven’t done any Christmas shop-
ping yet. . . so there’s another day,
wasted.

But now, you are cracking down.
It’s really time to work, and you
are serious. But is your desk al-
ways this dusty? Come and think
of it, when is the last time you
cleaned your room? And the bath-
tub really needs some work. Now
that you have that new shoe rack,
you should probably put that up.
And now you feel so organized
that it’s time to alphabetize your
CDs.

Okay, so youriook a little time ,
« away from-doing work. ,But your
place looks great. Mom ,would be ‘

proud. In fact, why not call and tell
her. There goes another day.
Morning comes. There is now
no way you can possibly do work
and attend class, so you decide to
skip all your classes and stay home
doing work. But since you are
kind of taking the day off, you
sleep late and wake up at 10. And
hey, Rosie O’Donnel’s show is on!
She’s right up there with Oprah in

coolness. You’ve got to love any
talk show host who is as star struck

as you would be if you got to meet
Tom Cruise. So you watch Rosie
throw Koosh balls at her guests
and sing TV theme songs and. . .
hey, it’s time for lunch.

Your roommate convinces you
to go out to lunch, you get talking,
and the next thing you know, it’s
two in the afternoon. This time,
you actually sit down at your com-
puter and write two pages of your
paper. Woo-hoo! Time to cel-
ebrate by taking a nap! Your last
thoughts as you drift off to sleep
are, “Maybe I should set my alarm.”

Woah, if you don’t get some
work done soon, you will be to-
tally screwed. Time to go to the
library and get serious. But first,
you should check your e-mail. And
do a quick skim of USA Today
since your professors are always
griping about the poor knowledge
W&L students have of current
events. Then a friend wanders by,
and the next thing you know you ’re
eating frozen yogurt at the Co-op
(oops, I mean Snack Bar Express).

is it break yet?

Quote of the Week:

“Of course I’m dating myself. I
have to -- no one else will.”

-- a W&L professor explaining a

historical reference

   
  

  

  Ring-mm Phi  
welcomes all letters to the editor!

 all submissions in to the University Center{
a . Send themto: s

Editor A
The Ring-tum Phi
Washington and Lee University,
A Lexington, VA 24450

or e-mail them to:
jzacher@wlu.edu

 

J-u-Za

 

"“%'

 

W&1ife

  
   
 

    
 

Mom, Dad, and family, the proprietors
of Lexington’s stores encourage you to
stop in and look through what they have

cans of plum pudding made by the people
of R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church,
and A Corner of Lexington, which fea-

to the area, including pottery by Jan
Jarrard, hand-turned wood fountain pens

and pencils, Gene Taylor’s pictures of --

  
 
  
  
 

I touch, the Clay
"e opportunity to
ornaments, Christmas

 

DECEMBER 6, 1996 PAGE 3
T
JC‘ IC‘ Cl D I ill? ihlitlt t’
, ff QC C racs ic:
BY KELLEY TOTFEN has given up sex. In his futile search, he attends A ‘ -     
PHI STAFF WRITER everything from a New York socialite’s “Hoe—down”
AIDS benefit to the Lower Manhattan Gentleman’s
, Toni ht’s play in Lenfest Center is a comedy about Masturbation Society. It is at this point of despair in Q.
‘ a tragedi. Jeffrey’s life when he meets the man of his dreams. But '9 ‘A"A"A'1 / 2 Of
“Hate AIDS, not life,” says one of the characters in there is a problem: the man is kirid, loving, gorgeous, 4 stars;
acelebratorytheme which surfaces throughout the play. and HIV positive. ' worth the trek
“It’s still our party,” “The play is not eakness of death,”
t Paul.Rudnick’sJeﬁ'rey, a comedy about AIDS, will according t0 the pulgl. outrageous and BY ALEX CllRl5'l‘EN5EN The p I tc I1:
run tomght lhmugh Wednesday’ glorious absurdlty Pm MovrE CRITIC "It'll be like
Theater major Denis Riva is directing the play to Riva wanted to A play, and the
complete his senior thesis project. He is also starring in subject matter of Jeﬁrey, writte .. 993, interested "0 other Sutar
the play, an unexpected role he had to take when the him. - Tr ek ﬁlm-
: original lead quit due to illness, “Theater is a good forum for discussion and a good
The play’s universal message appeals to Riva. way to get people to look at issues and apply them to the
“There are lots of things in life to be scared of, Context of their Own liVes,” Riva said. I hate William Shatner. Oh, sure, he was fun at first.
whether it’s getting run over by a bus tomorrow or People have told him they were astonished, he said, Cmlslhg the galaxya Pleklhg “P h3heS- And “T~-l- l"l00l<e|'-"
ﬁnding out you have AIDS,” he said. “You can’t put at his choice of Jeffrey for W&L’s predominantly Who can hate “T.J. Hooker”? But any honest person would
‘ your life on hold for these variables. You have to go on homophobic student body. have to agree that by the time of Star Trek: Generations, he
living to the best of youi abilities and enjoy it)’ “If people have a problem with homosexuality and had overstayed his welcome and worn out the character of
I Jeffre , the title character of the la , is a a actor/ come to see the show,” Riva said, “I would ho e the ’d James Tiberius Kirk. Still, it was probably necessary to
writer who is searching for the mcfaning inga lsociety seethe characters in the play as people and realize thlese ‘ _ L°“f°s‘ Cent”: Pl“"° v lhelude the Old 035‘ lh Ge"e’“‘l0"s l0 “P355 the lefeh” l0 the
t plagued by AIDS. Terrified of both life and death, he are issues they have to deal with in their own lives.” Jeffrey 5 fmends try t° °°mf°rt h1m- ‘gt’-Xt'IC‘ierl:erF2[i‘hi0nI:; crevé. And the molyig W3: aciot of funn Still;
“ tar re : e ext eneration” a a e a weig t an
L ' ' ' ' dignity to the old saga that the first half of Star Trek’s history
ex“ n  n 0 e r u n | u e U 0 r  U“ a just couldn’t uphold, and it has been time for a long time now
' for the “Next Generation” cast to strike out on its own.
; Well, they’ve done it, and the results are nothing short of
s ectacular. A few eo le l have talked to about m excite-
By DAVID Baisnsy Patrons also have the option of assem- W&L items. In addition, University E. Lee nutcrackers. nlilcnt ovei the newltlilnli) have told me, «i donvt likgseience
Pm Fnarungs Eorron bling their own box of candies. Appro— Sportswear supplements the variety of Artists in Cahoots is a “cooperative t"iction_wl‘his is astupid statenient_ Donvt eve, say it_ First of
priate to the Christmas season, Cocoa clothing available inthe Washington and gallery of local artists and craftspeople” all, stai Tick is not science fictioi-i_ Theieis no science in it_
I TheonsetofwintermeansthatChrist- Mill is offering Mint Bark, adark choco- Lee bookstore with its own W&L which boasts gold and silver jewelry, [t’Sfi_itui-e t"iction_ All scientific iefeiences aie fake,“-sntrived’
mas will be here soon, Along with car- late blended with red and green mint bits. merchandise. paintings, photographs, scarves, and and phiased so that even if you have no idea what they>ie
olers, ornaments and decorations, fresh Whose motherwouldn’tappreciateabox Lexington is home to a wealth of many other works of art which would talking about (they’re not talking about anything), you under-
snow and family dinners, Christmas of chocolates for Christmas? artists and artisans whose works are make perf Christmas morning stand the ielationship of the supposed science to the plot_
‘ means Christmas shopping, Other Lexington foods can be found available in town. For instance, Artisans surprises. so then the movie has to be judged on the same basis as any
As you search for that perfect gift for at The Shenandoah Attic, which carries on Washington Street carries art unique If you wo ‘ to give your Christ- othci film_

The plot is simple yet complex. It does something I love,
which is to “backfill” the Star Trek universe’s history. In that
history, the Federation of Planets was created after World

3 to offer. ‘ tures Rockbridge County Wines. Shenandoah Valley, and watercolors by tllier items with their wai lll’ when ascicntist, Zefiain Cochrane (janies Cioi-nwcll
Lexington has many W0ndel’fUlSt0reS lfyoll are l0°l<lh8 fol Uhlque Clmhlllgs Ell$e SPTlhl- 0Wh _ es - of Babe), turned a nuclear missile into a warp-speed space-
full of items which would make great Alvin-Dennis is “The Home of the Tri- Also, Virginia Born & Bred features Fabrics and Sew Forth carries Ci-aft_ Vulcan «inonitois” happened to he patrolling Eanhvs
Christmas presents, In addition,someof dent Belt”; it is the only store which historic Lexington ornaments, W&L Lexington brick finials for students solaisystcin and monitored the flight’ using itascvidencethat
Lexington’s stores carry gifts which you carries belts emblazoned with the W&L throws, Diane Climb’s Shenandoah An- who would like to bring little repli- mankind had cvolvcd to the point that the Vulcans should

lt cannot ﬁnd anywhere else, items which trident. Alvin-Dennis also carries other gels and “Doggoyles,” and Gen. Robert cas of the colonnade bricks home

are unique to this area because they are
either made here or only available here.
For instance, if you would like to take
home a taste of Lexington, the Lexing-
ton Coffee Roasting Company is a good
place to start. Lexington Coffee makes
its own blends of coffee, including W&L
_Generals’ Blend, Blue Ridge Blend, and
Shenandoah Sunset, all of which are for
sale. Also, Lexington Coffee offers sev-
eral gift baskets and boxes replete with
holiday bow and Santa Cinammon stick.
The Cocoa Mill Chocolate Company,
which originated in Lexington a little
more than three years ago, offers its own
variety of chocolate confectionery. All
of Cocoa Mill’s candies are hand-made

  

with them, and Colonial and Coun-
try Collections carries porcelain or-
naments made by P.B. Moss. Lex-
ington offers an abundance of op-
portunities to bring home a beautiful
piece of art for Christmas.
For the bookworms in your fam-
'i'ly,‘both The Best Seller and The
Bookery carry works by local au-
thors, as well as used books which
may be difficult to find elsewhere.
Last, Night Owl Music Co. offers
recordings by local bands such as
McGraw Gap, Freewill Savages, the
Renegades, as well as bands from
Indie labels which are not carried by
the average mall music store.

make contact with us poor primitive folks down here.

First Contact picks up hundreds of years after that. The
crew of the Enterprise, alerted to a plot by the Borg, a
cybernetic race of marauders who share one consciousness
and assimilate whole cultures into their psychic collective
before breakfast, to go back in time to stop Zefram Cochrane’s
flight and take over Earth, head back to stop them.

For those of you who havs=n.’t.ss=.e.n.t?l:§e,  .CaPtain
Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewaf't)' was assimilated by the
Borg and narrowly escaped. So-hehas his own demons to
fight. Data (Brent Spiner), quickly becomes the prime target
of the Borg because he possesses knowledge they need and
presents a unique challenge, as a robot, to their assimilation
techniques. Also the Borg “queen” (Alice Krige), thinks
he’s sexy.

The plotline alternates between the story of fighting off the
Borg in Earth’s orbit, to Earth, where Zefram Cochrane must
make his historic ﬂight to ensure that first contact with the

  
   

pt in Lexington F01‘ the Chocolate l0V€.f, Vl-Sll lhe Stores lh ‘OWN before Vulcans take place and history remafs unchanged. James

Cocoa Mill offers an array ofgift boxes,  , i .. you go home for Christmas. The gift

including boxes of chocolates, trufﬂes, ot by Mark Slmlany you have always wanted to give may

chocolate covered pretzels, and cookies, Lexington Roasting Co. carries gifts for your caffeine fiend. originate in Lexington, Virginia. and Roy Oi-bis"

portion of the

n .

 

Prepare now for W6-L bookstore sale

BY DAVID BALSLEY

-PHI FEATURES EDrroR

It may be an unwritten Washington and Lee tradition
that every freshman does their Christmas shopping in

The sale, which was formerly held at night, has been
moved to day in order to attract students who would not
be able to attend because of evening engagements.

“We’re simply going to drop everything and hope
everyone will do their Christmas shopping,” stated

 

as well as calendars and unique posters of Washington

and Lee University.

The bookstore can order any itemstwhich it does not
carry in stock.

“We do a lot of s ecial 0 Christmas,” stated
P .

   
   

 
 
   

spectacular. The ﬁ __  _. y onathan Frakes, who
plays “Number One,” William Rrker, the Enterprise’s first
mate. Other Star Trek film have been directed by cast
members. Leonard Nimoy directed in and iv, and William
Shatner directed V. But nobody’s done it like this. First
Contact starts out inside of Captain Picard’s eye in a sweep-
ingly beautiful sequence, and visually references EVERY-
THING, from Metropolis to Aliens to The Cabinet of Dr.
Caligari to the Trek films to Star Wars to Terminator2 to The

the W&Lbookstore. The Proximity of the bookstore to Tidge Roller. Manager of the Univers't Bookstore. Roller. ”“We can ord book that’s Wizard of 01 And it does it an in a way that is never
campus, the W&L merchandise, and the ability to TheW&Lbookstorehasprovent popularplace in print. it derivative highiy Siyiish and ajoyto benoidn didnnwanito
charge gifts hom-seems to lure upperclassmen at to shop for Christmas ifts . Theemployeesofth llbedressed ’ ’

  
 
  
  
 
 

it During the sale, the bookstore
buttered popcorn and punch to its
‘ unts on most of the store’s

 

10:00, 2:00, 4. oughout the day, and will give away
a surprise to the first four hundred patrons.

  
  
  

“Kids and adu
time, and at 20%
anywhere else yt
“Sweatshirts ﬂowout
lieve.”

The bookstore keeps many po ular items in stock,
including best sellers and new reléases such as Michael
Crichton’s latest work. In addition, the bookstore
features books on tape, which are popular with students,

   
   

to direct
"could make

like elves for the event, will also
students towards books and items
good Christmas gifts.

As an added beneﬁt to students who shop at the
bookstore, patrons will be given the opportunity to gift
wrap their presents and attach aspecial Washington and
Lee silver seal to their packages.

“We plan on it being a lot of fun,” stated Roller. “We
hope everyone will come.”

leave after the movie was over. This world is so real that you
feel you could step into it, and its future history is portrayed
in a truly striking way. Stewart, Spiner, Krige, Cromwell, and
Alfre Woodard, who plays a 21st century Earthling, are all at
the top of their form.

Even if you don’t like Star Trek, First Contact is a film that
moves quickly, understands its aims, never takes itself too
seriously, and is a wonderful addition to the Star Trek mythos.
It also promises great things for the future.

éuf /0/ago on C/Lrictmaa 7/I/ee-éenJ

Thanksgiving to see them. They were
really great, even without Jerry,” said
SAB member James Christovich.

The band covers a diverse reper-
toire of material.

“They play mostly oldies, but they
do manage to work in [Grateful] Dead
songs now and then.”

Several of their standards include
The Night They Drove Old Dixie
Down and Tangledjn Blue.

BY B.J. WALKER
PH: STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee has long at-
tracted emerging acts that gone on to
l‘ world fame —— the Dave Matthew’s
Band, Jewel, Joan Osborne, REM --
but this Friday W&L will play host to
what is left of one of the most ac-

st claimed bands in Rock history.
The former members of the Jerry
Garcia Band w'll >f' atured Fridayas
the main  _AB’s Christmas

     
 
  

    

marking the begin-
m period, will fea-

 

Pbllclty Photo Publicity Photo
The JGB (left) promises Dead tunes for Christmas weekend; Jupiter Coyote (right) will open on Friday evening.
Jerry Garcia died while in rehab. In bassists for the band. ful Dead projects. Although most ac-
addition, two member of 80’s staple The band was established in 1971 tive in the 1970’s, the band recorded
Huey Lewis & The News serve as the as one of Garcia’s many extra-Grate- together until Garcia’s death. A year

‘at 8:30. Tickets are
$8 if bought before and $1 Oat the door.lD
is required for the lush Beer Garden.

 

after their leader’s death, they have
temporarily reunited for a mini-tour.

merof1995afterlongtimebandleader “We Went UP t0 TF3)‘ hef0Ye

 

 

THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

would like to remind students
that all of our meetings are
    21331.1.
to members of the W&L
community.  

Please feel free to drop by and
  see your student government  .,
 at Work every l
  Monday evening at 7:30 p.m.  
 in the Excutive Committee
  room of the University Center.

   

 

R‘

U

 

 

 

 

 

f

D

 

The Rinq-tum Phi, December 6, 1996

     
     
     
    
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
  
     
     
 
    
 
   

PICTUR6 ‘me RUGBY ‘ream
DOING Tl-lélR R6NDlTlON on
“STAYING /‘\LlVé"
LIP SYNCH
sponsored by war. and SARAH
JANUARY 2%, J???
7:  P113.

PROCééDS TO BéNéi-"IT LOCAL FOOD PANTRléS.

C0 R6QlSTéR ‘/OUR QRcuP’s ACT,  
CONTACT CHAIROUAN MATT O’BRIeN on

ADVISEER Jean? DARRe1.L.

N Ews

SECRET, from pg. 1
like that done in frats, perhaps it should be included in

   

  

Page 5

The same fuzzy deﬁnitions of hazing apply in these
cases, only perhaps in even fuzzier form. If a

   
 

administrative attempts to curb hazing. enters into a society knowing full well that brgifcrlihg
Dean Howison is familiar with the names of the will occur, and that person agrees to be branded, has he
groups in question as well as with the hazing rumors. been hazed? This isa gray area that will probably keep
He says, ‘‘All student organizations [including secret W&L on its toes for a while to come, but until com-
societies] fall under the University hazing policy, and plaints about the secret societies reach the administra-
all complaints will be investigated.” In his seven years tion, students can only guess at the hushed-up practices
on campus, Howison reports that he has never received of these groups.
a complaint from any student or parent concerning
hazinginthe Sigma Society orinthe Mongolian Minks. POL1CY, from P3, 1 _
‘ Not enough is known at this point about the inner able to do anything non, n he snned_
Workings Of ‘he 5°¢i°‘i¢S *0 P355 ludgmehh Th°“8h The new hearing board will provide a means for
bmhdihg d°"-5 °°°“'’ 3‘ W&L: P°"h3P5 ‘he i“"°"'°m°“' dealing with student complaints about hazing. In the
of the societies in this practice is just a rumor. However, figh‘ to mom", hazing, ‘he hoard Wm ‘nay a Pivotal role
3 few lhihgs 37° deﬁhhely 001790‘; the Sigma S°°i°‘)’ in determining the validity of hazing charges and in
and the Mongolian Minks are both alive and well in the “king discﬁplinary ,neasn,.es_ The new board will be an
W&L °°mm"hh)’s and ‘hey fa“ Uhder the Same hazing opportunity for students and faculty to work together to
restrictions as any fraternity or sorority would. solve the nn,hhnn_
av. ‘ -at A 5 as - ac '
a   ~     a r a
   Wa‘“°‘""  
My 0 ovf, S . J’ ~ Individuals. ‘Student-t -
;;_,_‘..h;  n  ;,  -   g 2  _  Organizations and
toss and tau hter         Smal1topro-
; g Q  by mote 1997 Spring
, _  V wag???  Break Tavel Packages.
In C  0 . ._ Earn substantial
i 573*? 3*‘°§3*°*“¢ MONEY and FREE
Pu-tutti M TRIPS
h  ‘H n n  R §  Call INTER-CAMPUS
r 3!! I6 ennui:  PROGRAMS
Y W564 9, (800) 327-6013
manner 6 an at 8:90 in 
J‘ 9 8 atzzoo gm. ﬁecemswr ‘ti
Bccanbcrmtqzoopm.  , A  
me iolmn Theatre Mzf‘ Egg’
may Denis Riva, asmaunauss van“?
akfnzeetﬁverytﬁi-mg? The
Ring-tum
£0-me * ' r: -
  3° pm: An
éfer  Fepcozrn ,
Essa 33‘a§.;zas Gafore amazmg
{mass 55 3 t
if   _ E W-=f 1 smear; sar,<§§;?z:»gtvi:ng time?
 pp      Q     p of talents
S S  all in one
!'O0l'I\.
Live In helper, female. provide care In _L¢,tg1,_;s
exchange for room. Near campus. astound
Small salary potential. Call Joan, you
465-5546. Start soon!

SENIORS! ! !

Your SENIOR YEARBOOK PROOFS
will be available for your perusal
around Wed., Dec 11, in front of

Carol Caulkins office in the

University Center. You must choose

which picture you Want to appear in

the yearbook by midnight Dec. 1 7.

If you don’t, We will choose it for
  you. You may also order
additional prints at this time

(which may not be charged E
home, so bring your checkbook!)

Happy Holidays

 

  

" av o
Generals In action this week:     Last week’s results:
M'Bun:1-MI.r. - Today vs. Guilford. 7:30 p.m.; MB“n1"‘"' ' W~ 33-31 81 Claﬂmont:
Saturday at VMI. 3:00 p.m.; L. 73-62. at Pomona-Pﬁzer;
..............     
Tuesday vs. Brldgewater. 7:00  wnﬂunuuﬂ L‘ 71-70 (011 at RMWC
Mswnnmoo - Saturday vs. VMI. 2:00 pm. ws'num° ' W’ 10239‘ "5' RMWC‘
Wuo11.mo - l-‘rt.-Sat. at Lebanon Valley Invitational w- l2l'59~ at SW00! 3118?
PAGE 6 BASKETBALL. Swnvnvrmo, WREs'rLmG DECEMBER 6, 1996

Men’s basketball ready for rematch with Keydets

Team suffers tough
OT defeat to H—SC;
prepares for VMI

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
Pm Sroms EDITOR

The Generals took another
step toward overcoming their
growing pains on Wednesday
when they almost handed
Hampden—Sydney an upset.

Washington and Lee looked
as if it would come away from
its ﬁrst Old Dominion Athletic
Conference matchup of the sea-
son with a victory over one of
the league’s strongest teams.

Freshman Matt Jackson
scored 15 first-half points, in-
cluding a three-pointer with less
than ﬁve seconds left in the half,

   f=?-é vThi.S;»¥‘?°!ildliéihédéﬁnit

unﬁt». but be

 

to give W&L the 37-35 lead
going into the break.

The Generals continued to
keep it close throughout the sec-
ond half. They had a 75-64 lead
with just under three minutes
left in regulation. But then
Hampden-Sydney’s Chris Fox
scored eight straight points, in-
cluding two three-pointers, to
cut W&L’s lead to 75-72. Fresh-
man center Rich Peterson
knocked one in to put the Gener-
als up by five. The Tigers an-
swered with a three-pointer and
Fox added a break-away layup
to tie the score at 77, sending the
game into overtime.

Hampden-Sydney came out
aggressively and sank the first
bucket in OT. Then Fox added
another three-pointer to put the
Tigers up by ﬁve. From there
the Generals never got within
two. Hampden—Sydney re-

mained undefeated as the Gen-
erals fell 91-87.

Peterson had a great perfor-
mance with 17 points and eight
rebounds. He scored 14 of the
Generals’ ﬁnal 18 points, in-
cluding seven of ten in OT.

W&L’s record now stands at
1-4. But all four losses have
come at an average of only 6.5
points. This is quite a change
from last year’s 3-21 squad that
held the title of worst rebound-
ing team and worst ﬁeld goal
percentage defense in‘ the
ODAC.

Last year head coach Kevin
Moore did not have the depth on
his squad to run the up-tempo
style of play that he wanted. But
after bringing in a talented re-
cruiting class nine freshmen
strong, Moore said, “We’re not
having that problem this year at
all. We’re pressing as much as
we can and keeping the tempo
going.”

Moore has three members of
the Class of 2000 in his starting
line-up; Peterson, Brian Ricketts
and Walt Pyler. Rounding out
the starting five are this year’s
co—captai ns, senior Chris Couzen
and junior Kelly Dyer.

Despite the losses and the
level of inexperienceon his team,
Moore is encouraged by what he
has seen so far. “There are some
growing pains that we’re going
through right now. I think all
and all we’re playing pretty
hard,” he said, “I like what I
see.”

The Generals are preparing
to play back-to-back games this
Friday and Saturday. On Friday
W&Lwill host its second ODAC
contest of the season against
Guilford. Tip-off in the Warner

The Generals bring the ball upcourt against ODAC rival Hampden—Sydney Wednesday night. W&L fell M

Photo by Mark Slomiany

to the Tigers in overtime, 91-87 . The men’s team will take a 1-4 record into VMI’s Cameron Hall Saturday.

Center is at 7:30 p.m.

The Generals won’t be on
their home court on Saturday,
but they’ll only be aboutahalfa
mile away. Virginia Military
lnstitute’s Cameron Hall will be
the sight for the third-ever meet-
ing on the hardwood between
the Keydets and the Generals.
The neighbors renewed their
basketball rivalry last season
after a 54-year hiatus. That
game, pitting Division I against
Division III, drew the second

largest crowd in Cameron Hall
history with over 4,000 people
attending.

Last year’s game was a dis-
appointing one for Moore’s
squad. The Generals only had a
seven—point deficit to make up
at the start of the second half, but
ended up dropping the game to
the Keydets, 100-62.

Moore is hoping for a differ-
ent outcome this time. “Obvi-
ously we’ll be much more com-
petitive,’ he said, “I think we did

a nice job for 20 minutes last
year against them and then just
ran out ofsteam. Ithinkwith our
added depth this year we can
sustain our level of competitive-
ness.”

W&L is going to need to be
competitive. The Keydets have
gotten off to a great start this
season with a 3-2 record so far.
Their only major loss has come
at the hands of Division I-A pow-
erhouse Wake Forest. The
Keydets were also defeated by

Navy, 68-62, on Thursday night.

VMI also has its own share of
talented freshmen in Aaron"
Demory and Eric Mann. The
Keydets also boast last year’s

Southern Conference Freshman

of the Year, Brent Conley.

No matter the outcome of
Saturday’s game, it will be a
great one for the community.
All of the proceeds from ticket
sales will go to the Rockbridge
Area Recreational Organization
to support youth athletics.

Young talent leads women into season

Generals enter
league season
with 2-2 record

BY Scorrr BOOKWALTER
PHI Sroms EDITOR

The pieces are there for the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s basketball team.
Now it is a question of how well they can
put them together.

The Generals could be hindered by a
lack of experience this season with five
freshmen and four sophomores on the
roster, but there is no denying theirtalent.
Through the first four games this year,
the young talent is already showing signs
of maturity, making an improvement on
last year’s 5-18 record appear likely.

W&L began its 1996-97 season by
traveling to Pittsburgh November 22-23,
‘where it split two games in the Carnegie
Mellon Tip-Off Tournament. The Gen-
erals had the misfortune of drawing de-
fending Division III runner-up Mount
Union in the opener, as the Generals
were routed, 85-46. But the women
salvaged third place in the tournament by
outlasting Thiel, 46-43.

“Against Mount Union, we played
well for the first eight minutes,” junior
captain Tonia Dean said. “After that,
they outran us. They were just a more

athletic team and overall, a better team.”

The Generals led 12-10 with about 14
minutes remaining in the ﬁrst half, but
that would be the last lead they would
see. Mount Union roared out on 38-10
run during the remainder of the half,
giving it a commanding 48-22 advantage
at halftime. -

W&L scored the first four points of
the second half but then went the next 5
1/2 minutes without scoring as Mount
Union pulled away.

Freshman guard Jessica Morton made
a big splash in her first game by leading
the Generals with 14 points. Another
newcomer to the team, senior Elizabeth
Bahn, hauled down 11 rebounds, while
Dean grabbed nine boards.

W&L returned to the court for the
consolation game and slogged its way
past Thiel. Thiel led 41-40 with 4:10
remaining in the game, but Morton then
took command. She scored W&L’s ﬁnal
six points to give the team its first win of
the season.

Morton notched 14 for the second
straight game, earning her a spot on the
all-tournament team. Fellow freshman
guard Ansley Miller also collected 14
points for the Generals.

The Generals continued to receive
outstanding play from their cadre of
young players in their 69-29 hammering
of Villa Julie last Tuesday, which in-
creased their record to 2-1.

Miller had an unbelievable game as
she set a new school record for steals in
one game with 11. She also racked up 19
points, eight rebounds and eight assists,

Photo by Mark Slomiany

Diving ahead

The W&L women’s swimming team has splashed out to a 4-1 record this
season after two victories this week, 102-39 vs. Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College Tuesday and 121-59 at Sweet Briar Wednesday. W&L set seven meet
records against RMWC and now has won 27 straight ODAC dual meets.

just missing a quadruple-double.

Morton added 15 more points and
seven assists, while Dean and sopho-
more Chrissy Burghardt grabbed 13 and
11 rebounds, respectively. A stiﬂing
W&L defense forced 32 turnovers, and
an outmatched Villa Julie team shot a
miserable 28 percent from the field.

Despite the W&L rout, Dean said the
Generals still could have played better.

“We didn’t play to our potential at
all,” she said. “We settled for a comfort-
able lead and didn’t do the things we
needed to do to get better. It was a win,
but it was not as big as it should have
been.”

The Generals were back in action
Thursday night to tip off their Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference season, but
they suffered a heartbreaking 71-70 de-
feat in overtime at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College.

W&L jumped out to an 11-3 lead
early in the first half and led 32-28 at
halftime. The outlook looked good for a
third Generals win in four games, but
RMWC had other ideas. RMWC grabbed
the lead back in the second half, before
Dean converted a bankshot with 11 sec-
onds left in regulation to tie the score and
force overtime.

The Generals edged back in front 70-
69 in overtime, but RMWC’s Jean
Hazelwood spoiled the possible W&L
victory by connecting on a short jumper
with 7.6 seconds remaining. A last-ditch
W&L jumpshot was off the mark and
RMWC (5-0) prevailed.

Morton again was the Generals’ high

scorer with 17 points. Miller pitched in
14 points, and sophomore center Amber
Hinkle and Dean added 12 and 10 points,
respectively.

Dean will anchor the Generals’
frontcourt this season. The frontcourt
lost scoringand reboundingleader Sandra
Holmes to graduation, but Dean, along
with Hinkle, who led the team with 36
blocks last year, will try to fill the void.

“We have good post players,” Dean
said. “If we could just get our footwork
down, then the rest will fall into place.”

With the team’s strong dcoth in the
backcourt, however, the team will rely
more on Dean and the other post players
to provide defense instead of scoring.

“My personal goal is to be a great
rebounder,” Dean said. “That’s my job
out there. Our guards and other players
can score the big points and I can pull
down the boards.”

Besides the talented frosh tandem of
Morton and Miller, the Generals will rely
on sophomores Burghardt and Karin
Treese for scoring. Burghardt, who plays
both guard and forward, averaged 11
points per game last season. Point guard
Treese averaged 7.6 points per game last
season while dishing out 34 assists.

Freshmen Stephanie Leffler,
Stephanie McKnight and Denise Wallin
could also provide some points off the
bench.

The Generals next play at home Sat-
urday against Guilford, which Dean said
should be a fast-paced game.

“We’ll give it our best and see what
the outcome is.”

W

Jock
Shorts

 

honorable mention.

second team.

Fall Sports Honors:

The football team had eight players earn All-ODAC
honors. Junior Jon Benazzi received ﬁrst team honors at
cornerback. Six players made the second team: senior quar-
terback Brooks Fischer, junior kicker Matt Holbrook, senior
tight end Jon Gardner, junior center Stefan Neumeister,
junior defensive end Jack Boyd and senior linebacker McGuire
Boyd. Sophomore wide receiver Chas Chastain received

Head coach Frank Miriello also was named the ODAC
Coach of the Year in only his second year at the helm.
Miriello coached the Generals to a 5-5 record this fall.

Five players on the women’s soccer made the All-ODAC
teams last week. On the first team were senior midfielder
Jenni Grant, junior back Claire Bowers and sophomore
forward Karin Treese. Junior back Lorraine Taurassi and
sophomore midﬁelder Nicole Johnson earned spots on the

The Generals’ head coach, Jan Hathorn, received ODAC
Coach of the Year honors for the second time in her ten-year
career. This award came after Hathorn guided the Generals
to 12 victories and a second place ﬁnish this year.

J

1

 

