4

.’/f/
f \

GENERAL

ALONE ON DATE-WEEKEND?:

Critic Roger Ebert described the W&L Film
Society's next presentation as "a complex, deeply knowl-
edgeable story about a truly lost soul and her down-
ward spiral." The contemporary drama Georgia (USA,
1995), directed by Ulu Grosbard, will be shown at 7:30
p.m. on Friday and Saturday, October 4 and 5, in the
Troubadour Cinema.

Georgia, a devastating study of sibling rivalry, is
the tale of two Seattle sisters. Jennifer» Jason Leigh
stars as Sadie, a mediocre and lonely nightclub singer
who idolizes her older sister Georgia (played by Mare
Winningham), a successful singing star, wife and
mother. The film follows the painful, self-destructive
life of Sadie and its contrasts with her sister's "perfect"
existence.

AUDITIONS FOR JEFFREY:

The Theater Department will hold open audtions
for Jeffrey. Paul Rudnick's romantic comedy that
skewers every gay stereotype imaginable while fear-
lessly celebrating what makes the gay life so compel-
ling and controversial. The show will run December
6th through 11th and will be directed by Denia Riva
for his senior thesis project. Auditions will be held in
the Keller Theatre on October 6th and 7th from 7:00
to 10:00 p.m. Scripts are available from the theater
department secretary.

MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCE:

On October 18 & 19, Tucker Multimedia Center
for Foreign Languages will host a conference, "Inge-
nious Methodologies through Technology."

The conference will bring together the last ten
years‘ recipients of major funding from the Charles E.
Culpeper Foundation for the implementation of cre-
ative teaching strategies unilizing technology in for-
eign language education. There will be 34 presenta-
tions throughout the two day conferemce.

FALL CHORAL CONCERT:

The W&L choral ensembles will present their
annual fall concert on October 8 at 8 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center. The public is cordially invited to
attend.

The concert will open with selections by the Uni- A’ , '7

versity Chorus, led by newly-appointed conductor
Scott Williamson. General Admission, JubiLee,
and Southern Comfort, the university's three

a cappella groups, will each present a pair of :2_ _ V
lighter vocal selections. The University Cham- ’ 

ber Singers, directed by Gordon Spice, will per- "Tag. 1-.

form several a cappella pieces, including settings
of "Ave Maria" by Mozart and David Conte.

SEVEN-COLLEGE EXCHANGE:

W&L will participate again this year with six
other colleges (Hampden Sydney, Hollins, Mary
Baldwin, Randolph-Macon, Randolph-MaconWomen's
and Sweet Briar) in an exchange program.

To be eligible to take part in this program, the
student must have at least a 2.5 cumulative grade
point average. The exchange student may study at
the neighboring institution for an academic year or, if
the calendar coincides with a portion of ours, for a
shorter period of time.

Students wishing to participate should obtain an
application from the Registrar's Office. The deadline
for Winter 1997 is November 15. Additiobnal infor-
mation, including catalogs of participating colleges, is
available in the University Registrar's Office.

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

Clliiz ilitng-tum ijﬂlii

VOLUME 9S, NUMBER 7

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

.lAiii?s  LEYBURN LIBRARY
‘\?\1AI~3lilNG“!'(.‘.N -at LEE l._lNl\/EFlSlTY
LE-.Xi\CéiON. VA 244,50

7 OCT 0 71995

Outing Club says ‘Take a hike!’

BY KELLY TOTIEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

S. R. Evens’ goal is to have Washington and Lee
students climbing the walls by winter term.

Evans, who graduated from W& L last spring, is the
school’s first Outing Club director. One of his projects
is to build a rock-climbing wall. The preliminary plan
is to work with the athletic department to convert one of
the racquetball courts into the climbing wall.

Evans’ position came into existence after a group of
W& L students, who spent the last three years looking
at other schools’ outing club programs, submitted a
proposal to Dean Howison and President Elrod. The
group found that the common factor among the success-
ful outdoors’ organizations was that each school paid
someone to run the program.

W&L agreed to a pilot program to be reevaluated at
the end of each year. The school was not ready to hire
a full-time professional, instead they hired Evans on a
one-year internship with part-time job expectations.

The new position is not the only change in the Outing
Club this year. Students must become members to rent
equipment and take part in activities. A membership fee
of $15 entitles the student to unlimited use of equipment
as well as transportation and food for all local trips.
More expensive activities, such as white water rafting
will cost an additional fee.

The equipment rental policy had also undergone
some organizational changes. Last year, the Outing
Club had _to take on an aggressive attitude to recover
many lost items. They had enough records to know who

had checked out what
equipment and were able to
ﬁnd the items or charge the
students who had lost the
equipment. Evans esti-
mates that the club lost less
than $300-$400 out of over
$10,000 in equipment the
club owns. Now, if stu-
dents turn in equipment af-
ter the one-week deadline,
they will be ﬁned a $10 late
fee per item.
At the first two Outing
Club meetings, held the past
two Wednesdays at 7 p.m.,
approximately 35 people at-
tended, more than double
the number from previous
years. Along with a boost
in popularity, the Outing
Club has increased the num-
ber of organized activities,
including Freshmen Day
Hikes, which the Outing
Club sponsored the first week of school.
. Besides hikes, mountain bike trips and rock climb-
ing expeditions, Outing Club members can participate
in activities during the week. Monday at 8 p.m., the club
offers kayak-rolling lessons in the small pool in Doremus
Gymnasium; between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. on Wednes-
days, members can attend bike maintenance workshops

“On any given day college students

Photo courtesy of Outing Club

Outing Club members take advantage of the autumn weather.

at the Outing Club House; and Thursday at Liberty Hall
R_uins, members can learn the art of ﬂy-casting begin-
ning at 4:30 p.m. On Mountain Day, October 13, the
Outing Club hopes to have members climb every moun-
tain in Virginia.

For more information on Outing Club events, con-
tact S. R. Evans at 462-4066.

OCTOBER 4. 1996

Sex ed
moves
out of
classroom

College students across the
nation revealed their sexual
habits in last month ’s issue
of Playboy. Now, the Ring-
Tum Phi will conduct our
own sex survey... R

trucks, showers, hotel rooms, at parties

__ - H‘ kinky sex. About a third of men and
women have tried bondage, and a few

are doing it in dorm rooms, libraries,

and, on occasion, in their parents’ beds.”

That’swhat Playboy magazine found
in its college sex survey. We want to
know what W&L students up to.

About half of college students na-
tionwide are getting lucky about once a
week, the survey found, and nine out of
10 students are sexually active.

The students that answered the sur-
vey questions did not know they were
responding to a Playboy survey. Profes-
sors at a dozen colleges from California
to Maine administered the 152-item sur-
vey to their classes.

W&L was not among them, so we’re
doing our own survey. A few people
gave their take on sex at W&L, but we’d
like a more thorough sampling. So fill
out the accompanying survey and return
it to The Ring-tum Phi mailbox on the
second ﬂoor of the university center.

Meanwhile, here’s what Playboy
found:

*The average college student has sex
twice a week. ‘‘I haven’t been here that
long, but I would guess that freshman
aren’t really having sex that often,” said
one freshman girl.

‘Most respondents practice serial
monogamy, or having sex with only
one partner. “Sex at W&L is ran-

A , dom,” said a sophomore female.

 “l’ve heard about a lot of one-
‘ night stands.”
*College students are into

more than that had spanked or been
spanked during sex. ‘‘I can’t imagine
that a campus clad in khakis and bow-
ties and the perfect pearls can be too
kinky,” said a junior female.

Area students share grief

BY DAviD BALSLEY
Pm FEATURES EorroR

The Grief Support Group will hold its
first meeting on Wednesday, October 9.
The group’s ﬂier describes it as “a sup-
port group for any student who has expe-
rienced the death of a family member or
friend. The focus will be on the grief
experience and learning how to handle
the loss and changes.”

“lt’s a support group to help students
learn to develop the tools necessary to
deal with their grief,” stated Amy Hefty.

Hefty will conduct the group along
with Mickey Watkins, a fellow Hospice
worker. Hospice is a Lexingtonian orga-
nization dedicated to helping the dying
to pass away with dignity.

University Counseling will not run
the group, but Dean Anne C. Schroer-
Lamont commented that the group’s
reputability has led University Counsel-
ing to endorse the program.

Studentsinvolvedinthe program will
help each other with their unique needs.
The students progress from becoming
comfortable with one another to talking
about their loss and their experiences.
“That comfort level increases as time
goes on,” Hefty commented.

The first three sessions of the Grief
Support Group’s six sessions are fairly
structured, with topics ﬂexibly sched-
uled for each session. At the end of the
third session, the students will express
their concerns and needs, which will
form the content of the remaining three
sessions.

Topics which will be covered by the
group include anger, guilt, dealing with
special days such as a loved one’s birth-
day, and others. “We try to tailor it to the
students’ needs,” Hefty stated.

The Grief Support Group differs from
previous support-style groups in several
respects. First, the program will involve
students from Mary Baldwin College,
Southern Virginia College,VirginiaMili-
tary Institute, and Washington and Lee
University.

“lt’s the first time we have tried to do
a college program for students in con-
junction with Virginia Military lnstitute,”
stated Schroer-Lamont.
group will exclude non-students.

Schroer-Lamont commented that stu-
dents who had participated in previous
support groups thought that “it would be
very helpful to have a group for only
students.”

The Grief Support Group differs from
the Peer Counselling Program. Although
the Peer Counsellors are capable of lis-
tening to those who have suffered from
the loss of a loved one, the leaders of the
Grief Support Group have "specific train-
ing and specific techniques for helping
those in grief," explained Schroer-
Lamont.

The group will meet on Wednesday
evenings from 7:30 to 9:00 p.m. in the
Scout Room of the Educational Building
at R.E. Lee Memorial Church. The group
will host six sessions between October 9
through November 20; no session will be
held on November 6.

Students interested in joining the Grief
Support Group should registerwith Carol
Caulkins’ ofﬂce as soon as possible, pref-
erably before Wednesday, October 9.

Hefty would like to limit the member-
ship of the group to those students who
are present at the first meeting in order to
ensure that the students feel comfortable
with one another.

There is a fee associated with the

group.

New club encourages environmental awareness

BY ANDREA EwiNG
PHI STAFF WRITER

solve. Freshmen c
commented, “It w '_

g" A  - re and find no

ber Liz O’Byme

the local schools. They formed an education subcom-
mittee to contact local principals and teachers to arrange

Second, the -

lb OPINION

Betsy Green visits Homecoming in Greenland. Mili-

‘L tary spending for the next century. page 3

> FEATURES
_, Kathryn Mayurnlk welcomes Homecoming Week-

Environmentally minded students met in the Game
Room of the University Center on September 30 for the
first meeting of the new Environmental Awareness
Committee. President and founder Anthony Dvarsksas
says, ‘‘I feel that we needed something like this on
campus. It was lacking at Washington and Lee.”

A group of 15, consisting mainly of underclassmen,
discussed the issues of recycling at W&L and education
outreach to the schools of Rockbridge County.

The fact that the freshmen dorms and Gaines have no
recycling facilities isa problem the committee wishes to

recycling progra  g
were to work at - ‘

the recycling . ‘ ,

“We should exp ’ ‘  . '

project in Woods " -' “'1-. a 4 orked extremely

well with most residents partic ating.
The E.A.C. also wishes to do outreach programs at

speakers and establish recycling programs. A sugges-
tion to start a juice box recycling program at the local
elementary schools was greatly support.

Other projects for the year may include cleaning
campus bulletin boards of out-of-date ﬂiers, and work-
ing with the Outing Club to clean trails on House
Mountain. Dvarsksas wants to “incorporate the com-
munity in environmentally beneficial projects.”

The group hopes to bring various speakers, activities
and projects to Washington and Lee. Dvarsksas wants
to “work with other clubs” and promote the environ-
ment through education and recycling.

WLUR hits the air

BY AMY KANE
PHI STAFF WRITER

Turning the dial to FM 91.5 this term means tuning
into more talk. Senior Charlie Carabello, station man-
ager, said the station is changing its format to include
more news from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Instead of providing
news reports only in the “Morning Magazine” which
runs from 7 to 9 a.m. and doing a news break at 11:45
a.m. as in previous years, news briefings will be incor-

with more variety

campus, with more than 100 students involved.

The only new show is a progressive country music
show hosted by William Cocke, a news office em-
ployee. lt airs from 8 to 10 p.m. Wednesdays.

“The Third Ear” airs from 10 p.m. to midnight on
Monday through Friday, and on Sunday. The mix
which Carabello describes “as eclectic as possible”
combines music that doesn’t fall under a category
covered by another show . The show takes requests
at extension X8444.

end. Habitat for Humanity takes a hammer and

flexes its new budget Alex Christensen takes a D°"gHarW°°d’a" a'"m""s°fw&La"d°dit°r°f

porated into the predominantly music shows.
the Rockbridge Advocate, hosts “The Anti-Head-

‘‘I would like the station to become a reliable source

ti

I P SPORTS

good look at 7'in Cup. page 2

Football and volleyball teams
stun opponents with late rallies.
Men's and women'stennis make
strong showings in Rolex South-
eastern tournament. The Big
Fan spits back at Roberto
Alomar. page 8

for music, sports and news instead of the sometime
source we tend to be.” Carbello said. ‘‘I also want all
student DJ ’s to take an active role insharing the respon-
sibility.”

ln addition to the new format, a new control mixing
board replaces one that had been in use for 14 years.

“The station will also be receiving a satellite dish
from the Texaco Metropolitan Opera, so it can receive
the Metropolitan Opera broadcast directly,” Professor
Bob deMaria, WLUR general manager, said. The opera
will be broadcasted December through April.

Programming runs from 7 a.m. until midnight. The
eclectic mix of music, news and sports is produced
mostly by students. The station, which has been on the
air since 1967, is the largest extra-curricular activity on

ache Machine,” a show which has run continuously
since 1972 when he was a student here. The show
runs from 9 p.m. to midnight on Saturdays.

Sophomores Tom Wadlow and Cliff Wooley host
“The Boot Record,” a 3-hour talk show which pro-
vides on-air computing help in addition to commen-
tary on topics of the computing subject. Wadlow and
Wooley wired the production room to receive phone
calls so the show,which airs from 9 a.m. until noon on
Thursdays, will include live calls. The show can be
also be contacted through e-mail at
bootrec@liberty.wlu.edu or on the World-wide Web
at www.wlu.edu/~bootrec.

WLUR D..l .s believe the increased variety of shows
will better serve the students and the community.

 

Page 2

Eszlife

OCTOBER 4, 1996

,1

Come on back to one who really loves you, baby

Kathryn Mayumik
Phi Staff Writer

Homecoming is an eclectic mix of blurry tailgates, wild ,

parties, and distinguished guests.

The 1996 Homecoming festivities mark the induction o'fitIie_§
Five Star Generals and the Athletic Hall of Fame as well as the"
annual Homecoming parade and the concert on Friday nigh , I

It’s always a toss up with the Homecoming band. Yo
never quite sure if it’s going to be an unknown band who’s
better left unknown or an unknown band who is going to t
super big the week after they’re here. Then you’ll k
yourself for not being able to boast that you saw them for tgi J?
bucks. This year brings us a mix of the two.  =

The headlining band is none other than (prepare your-_
selves, folks, it’s a mouthful) “The Band.” “The Band”, if
their name doesn’t already send those musical shivers dowg _
your spine, is a classic rock group which reached its height the M j’, ,
year a lot of us were born with such hits as “Up on Cripple

 l”

  

Creek” and “The Night they Drove Old Dixie Down.” \

“We’re going for a more diverse kind of band this year,”
said SAB member Dana Hood. She added that although the 
get bands that students want to see, the Board also invites less ma, _

to campus in an effort to introduce them to the student body.
'T‘I-~ nmminn hand “The. Rnntc” (nnt “Aoentc of’ (‘mod Rnnts”) is a ran ban

If you ui...

B.J. Walker
Phi Staff Writer

A common complaint among civic-
minded W&Lstudents is that there aren’t
enough opportunities to become involved
in the Lexington community. Habitat for
Humanity is trying to remedy that.

Made famous by President Jimmy
Carter, Habitat provides affordable
housing to the needy, using donated
materials, labor, and money. Habitat
allows volunteers the unique opportunity
of actually building houses. Residents
are required to pay “sweat equity”, that is
they are required to contribute a certain
number hours of-wo1=k;t’o the house. After
the house is ﬁnished, they repay the cost
with an interest-free loan. This allows
low-income families an opportunity to
own what is usually their first house. The
monthly payment for Habitat’s last house
was $125 dollars.

Last spring, W&L’s Habitat chapter
was able to begin construction of their
second house. Senior Brad Philipson, a
Habitat volunteer, said he hopes they
will be able to complete the project by
December and begin a new house next
spring.

The W&L chapter has no formal
membership. Every Saturday, interested
students gather and head to the work site.
“We average about a dozen people per
week,” said Philipson. “But there’s

  
   
 

  

   
 
 
  
  
   
     
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
    
 

 on the pop charts.

really big.”

b bop machine.”

S

Phi file
photo

,h  for anyone to escape being just a
homecoming is mixture of so many things: the ﬁrst date

5 fr:,omFl;w*"York City, whose recently released album continues soaring

“A year from now I can see then winning a Grammy,”
. said SAB president Hollis Leddy. “They are going to be

As an added extra, one of the band members apparently
I _ssesses an extraordinary talent.

“He sounds exactly like that actor from Police Academy
. \ ho can make all of those cool sound effects,” said Leddy. The
,..aetor’s name is Mike Winslow, otherwise known as the “human

or the Homecoming parade, there won’t be any drunk
5 falling off the floats because, as we all know, there are no
I Instead, the floats will be judged by the freshmen

- g the ﬂoats judged by the freshman gives us a chance to
m.” said Lathrop Nelson, president of Chi Psi. Peter
appa Sigma sophomore, feels that the ﬂoats will not be an
, rush tool. “Are ﬂoats a chafe—yes. Is the finished product
n-yes. Are we going to end up ﬁnished one-probably not.”
%ith the ﬂurry of activity this weekend, it certainly will be

little bit festive.

function for the freshman, graduates return to see old

friends, and everything here still seems so new. And
midterms seem eons away.

Two Washington and Lee University freshmen lend a helping hand to the campus chapter of Habitat

for Humanity.

always something to be done.”
Building a house is a serious
undertaking, and funding is a major
concern. In the past, the EC has been a
major source of support. Last year, $4500
was designated for Habitat. This year
Habitat received $10,000 from the EC.
“The money is very generous of the
EC, but we are still far short of our

GIVE IT UI’ T0 Clll TS]
AND THE YIMEKICAN ‘RED Cli0SS~

 

C.E. Miller
Phi Staff Writer

at least we’re going to blow the *&"!ing place up,” said
Paul Stanley of Kiss, also at the press conference.
Last night they tackled the Civic Center in Roanoke,

goals,” said Philipson .” We need to raise
at least another $25,000 to begin another
house.”Headded that the housethey began
last spring will cost about $30,000, and
their future expenses will only increase.
Habitat holds a semi-annual rafﬂe for
hotel rooms during Parents Weekend and
graduation. Over $700 has been raised
by the rafﬂes. Local charities and alumni

support provide the remainder of
Habitat’s funding. Last year, an
anonymous Lexington donor contributed
$10,000 to the effort.

So, the next time you have a little
spare time, and a desire to use some
serious power tools, pick up a hammer
and help out.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

File Photo

   

 

Tin Cup:
Kevin Costner returns

was of 4 stars;
good-hearted

The pitch: “It’II
be like JFK
meets

 ”

Alex Christensen
Phi Movie Critic

in Cup is a movie with very bad timing, at least in its

appearance at the box office. Though it did well in

terms of ticket sales (about $50 million so far), it

comes at a time when the obvious “giant” of golf movies is

Adam Sandler’s brilliant absurdist masterpiece, Happy

Gilmore. Tin Cup is good; Happy Gilmore is likely to become
a classic.

Nevertheless, Tin Cup is worth seeing as well. Don’t make
it a golf double feature, though.

Tin Cup is the story of Roy “Tin Cup” McAvoy, a loserwho
owns a desolate driving range in the godfcrsaken town of
Salome, Texas. It's hard to see how the operation is even
managing to keep Roy in beer and stained shirts, since it has
no visible patronage or anything that might attract it. Cheech
Marin is Romeo Posar, manager of the range and someone
who apparently has nothing better to do than hang out in the
dust with loser Roy.

Everything changes with the arrival of psychiatrist Dr.
Molly Griswold (Rene Russo). She wants to take golf lessons
so she can keep up with her boyfriend (and Roy’s old college
golﬁng buddy/rival), David Simms (Don Johnson). But,
naturally, Roy falls hard for Molly. To impress her, he tries
to work out his problems in therapy, asks her out, and finally
decides to try to qualify for the U.S. Open tournament so he
can prove that he can actually accomplish what he sets out to
do without defeating himself like he usually does.

(I won’t give away the ending. The studio asked audiences
not to, even though it doesn’t make that much of a difference.
Getting there is all the fun of Tin Cup.)

Rene Russo (In the Line of Fire, Get Shorty) is clearly the
star of this film by Ron Shelton, the director of Bull Durham,
White Men Can ’t Jump, and the acting tour-de-force Cobb.
Indeed, Rene Russo is the star of the moment. She will appear
in the upcoming Ransom with Mel Gibson, and was consid-
ered to play Dr. Chase Meridian in Batman Forever before
Michael Keaton bowed out and Joel Schumacher was allowed
to come in and bollocks up the whole franchise. It’s easy to
see why she’s so in demand: With her wonderful smile and
stellar comic timing, Russo easily steals the show from Kevin
Costner, Don Johnson, and Cheech Marin.

They’re far from overwhelmed, however. Kevin Costner
gives one of his best performances. (“Even better than
Waterworld?” you ask. Yes, even better than Waterworld.)
Actually, Costner is quite good as a loser trying to make his big
comeback after everyone else has dismissed him.
Hmmm...where could he have gotten the motivation for that
kind of a role? How could he ever find the necessary
identification with such a character to be able to put it on
screen convincingly? Hmmm.... Anyway, the old, charming
Costner is back this time around. One of my female friends,
who shall remain nameless, actually raves about the sex
appeal which oozes from Mr. Costner as he lies on the bed in
the ramshackle trailer his and Cheech Marin’s character share,
beer in hand, undershirt stained with the sweat of a sweltering
Texas afternoon. Okay. I just take herword forit. I mean, he’s
charming and entertaining, certainly, but I can’t understand
my friend’s low guttural growl whenever she hears anything
about Tin Cup. I just don’t think it’s justiﬁed.

Cheech Marin and Don Johnson are the comic relief from
the golf and the romance. They do the job nicely.

Still, the Happy Gilmore comparison bothers me. The golf
was more entertainingly shot and fast-paced, the comic timing
was beyond superb, and the writing great enough to be
admired for years. Tin Cup is slower, longer, less sure of its
structure and footing. Still, it is a lot of fun and a bit of
romance, and you might even learn a valuable life lesson that’s
not as pat as the usual Hollywood cliché.

 

“I wanna rock and roll all night and party every-
day...” They came. They spit blood. They danced. It

W

    
 
  
 

       
    

the ldcostumes. Th .

admitting that it was I
“The money? Su[e,’E ‘ oesn’t SLICK. We’re
going to make sure that w go out there, nobody

goes out after the show and says, ‘This isn’t worth what
I paid for it.’ Hell, people are spending all kinds of
money to see people put rubber balls through hoops, so

holding true the original tour plan.

“We’re not going to ﬂnish until we’ve hit every city

in every country We’re committed to this for a year,

Whats ‘er ititakes, and that will be the first

     

e Garth Brooks,
her 7th. .-Unlike
main motive’ 

( -  , ghts in a particular
thoughhis wife; is nine months pregnant,
ritinues to maintain a rigorous touring sched-

 

%9_

ule. He keeps a beeper and plane ready in case the

moment should come during a show. _
For those more interested in the off—Broadway series
that tours the country, Cats ( the longest running show
on Broadway), Grease, and The Sound ofMusic will be
at the Civic Center this year. '

 
 
  

Dan Odenwald
Phi Staff Writer

Bill Pelke doesn’t quite fit in here.

He stands before the audience in his
black t-shirt and blue jeans. His white
tennis shoes are scuffed. His beard and
ﬂoppy hair are highlighted by strands of
white. The audience is a group of fresh-
faced Washington and Lee law students
— all neatly dressed in their khakis and
Gap dresses, an attractive bunch straight
out oftheir upper middle-class suburbs.

But Bill has a story to tell, and the
lawyers-to-be have come to hear it. He
tells it in the simple prose of an Indiana
native. Plain language. Plain truth. He
knows no other way to tell it. Bill knows
they’re concerned with the law, but he
wants to put a human face on their stud-
ies. Someone real. Someone he loved.

On May 14, 1984, four girls decided
to hook school. They went to the ar-
cades to play video games and hang out.
But when they got there, they realized
they didn’t have any money. Stumped,
they began searching for a way to pick
up a few extra dollars.

Then it hit them.

  

One girl knew this elderly woman in
her neighborhood who gave Bible les-
sons to children. She would invite inter-
ested kids into her home where she would
teach them the stories of the Bible. Us-
ing her hand-stitched story pillows as
visual aids, the 78-year-old woman
would tell the children of Joseph and his
coat or Moses and the sea. She was a
woman of faith and was eager to share it
with everyone. Especially children. She
was also Bill’s grandmother.
So the girls went to her house under
the pretense of asking her for a Bible
lesson. Bill’s grandmother invited them
in. When she turned around, one girl
picked up a vase and smashed her in the
back of the head. Another pulled out a
knife and began to stab her. Thirty
times. The carpet underneath her body
was shredded from the sheer force of the
stab wounds. When the crime scene
investigators pulled back the carpet, they
found the hard wood ﬂoors had been
splintered from the power of the thrusts.
Bill’s grandmother bled to death on
the dining room ﬂoor where she had
served meals to her families. Where she
had taught her children to love Jesus.
Where she had laughed and cried and

built a life. Now she was dead.

The girls left the apartment with ten‘
dollars and the keys to the car. Police.

finally caught them after they had taken

the car back to school where they were

giving joy-rides to friends.

According to the law, the girls were
juveniles: 14, 15, 16, and 16. Due to the
severity of the crime, however, all were
tried as adults. One girl got 25 years in
prison. Another got 35. Another got 60.
The last girl was Paula Cooper. She
handled the knife. And for that, she was
sentenced to death. Paula was 15 ,and
the state of Indiana decided that she
should die. At that time, she was the
youngest female ever put on Death Row.
Bill didn’t care. His grandmother was
dead, and Paula was responsible.

One afternoon, about four months

after Paula’s sentencing, Bill was pray- V
ing. Tears welled up in his eyes because ’
he was thinking about his grandmother 1
—— about her ability to forgive and her 3
infinite compassion. He asked God for i

the strength to love Paula and her family.

To forgive. To feel compassion. Bill I

believes that God touched him that day.
God graced him with the ability to for
Please see Pelke, pg. 7

lo

 

  

l

OPINION

PAGE 3

‘_ 3 The Ring-Tum Phi, OCTOBER 4, 1996

, Champagne,  
  ,,Doritos and
fsketchy dates

in. *3

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

You all have no idea how hard it

is to come up with column topics
.f every week. I was makingjust that
Icomplaint to Tammy Moore in the
admissions office this week, and
;she suggested I write something
jabout homecoming.
sure. Homecoming isn’t as full of
Lycomedic opportunity as FD, for

I wasn’t so

example. But then I thought, “you
know, this is your last real home-

acoming. There are surely some

interesting memories to share.
More importantly, your column is
due, like, yesterday, so stop talk-

,ing to yourself and start writing.”
:Good plan.

In high school, homecoming

Twas a much bigger deal than here.

The tools on student council al-
ways wanted to make it into aweek
long celebration of school spirit.

“Still, every
October we’ d go
o to the homecom-
ing game to
watch the ma-
roons lose.”

Whatever. Oh, and we all actually
_went to the game, not that Moline
vyl-Iigh School had an outstanding
football program T W&L.4has a
Ibetter record. by‘ far. L. Still, our

football team had some thing§,,,,.

working against them from the
beginning. We were the Moline
Maroons. What’s a maroon? I
‘have no idea. I’m pretty sure they
were just looking for an allitera-
Etion. Our school fight song wasn’t
;very inspiring either. The first two
lines were, “we are Moliners.
£We’re from Moline.” Iswear. The
jMaroons were so bad that every
year, we’d pay another school with

. a team even worse than ours to

‘play against us for the first game of
‘the season so we we’d win at least
once. They must have had no
fpride. Still, every October, we’d

C .
all on tn the hnmernmino camp in

watch the Maroons lose.

My first "homecoming date was
also pretty memorable. His name
was Kevin, and he and I ran cross
country together. I agreed to go
with him because (1) I wanted to
go to the dance, (2) my friend Apryl
was going with his friend Ryan, so
we could double, and (3) he was a
sophomore and I was a freshman;
instant cool. Unfortunately, Kevin
had a big crush on me. I’ll never
know why. I was fourteen with
braces and every time he saw me I
was sweaty. '

Still, every time I turned around,
he was gazing at me lovingly.
Unfortunately for him, Kevin was
a really shy guy and couldn’t talk
to me. This did notistop him from
calling me every night. Even then
he didn’t talk to me. I’d hear
breathing and his 2 Live Crew tapes
until I made up an excuse to get off

the phone.
The night ofthe dance, Apryl

was my best ally. I was trying
to dodge Kevin; she was trying
to dodge Ryan. We planned a
strategy to avoid having them
kiss us goodnight. Allow him
to walk you to the door. Then,
at that moment just before you
open the door, when he might
try to plant one on you, drop
your purse Luckily, even after
watching Apryl successfully use
this plan, it worked for me too.
Homecoming here just
hasn’t been as exciting, but I
do have a few special memo-
ries. My freshman year, at the
tailgate, I had a screwdriver
with about three drops of or-
angejuice in it. I went to sleep

_’and,d_i,dnA’t wake up until my

jfirsit class on Monday. ,

,, Sophomore year, I found my-
self hiking in the woods behind
the pavilion with my date, Joel
Symonds. We brought a bottle
very cheap vodka, and passing
it back and forth was some of
the most fun I’ve had here. I
remember Joel saying, “you
know, when I find myself in
the dark, in the woods, drink-
ing terrible stuff, I wonder if I
drink too much. Hey, don’t
drink it all!” And from my
junior year, I have only once
piece of advice. No matter how
good it may seem at the time,

never combine champagne and
T\nrii'n’S_

W&L’-
PROUD

\\\ /////, ,\\\\\

W&L:

STRONG VERY HAP? O
mmouet N W

WEEKEND I

  

\\

\//////

W&L‘.

Ol\/HNG
3 H RE

     

FRioA\i,
ANDTHIS

  

Quote of the Week:

“In the first place, you’d be
eating yourself.”

- Anonymous chemistry professor discussing
shaking an HCI test tube

Editorial Page Editor .... ..
Sports Editors ........... ..

   

dent.

and obscenity.

Ellie ﬂing-mm iﬂlii

Executive Editor ........................... ..
Managing Editor ........................... ..
News Editors ................................ ..

................................... ..Anne Aivord
.............................. ..Hi1lary Coombs
...... ..Bethany Bauman. Tarah Grant
................................. ..Jason Zacher
......... ..Scott Bookwalter. Bethany Bauman
................................... ..Dave Balsley
..................................... ..Sam Levine

Features Editor ............................ ..
Photography Editor ....... ...i ............ ..

Business Manager ........................ ..
Advertising Manager ..................... ..
Circulation Managers ................... ..

................................... ..Will Hershey
................................... ..Chip Harrell
........ ..Daniel Harrell, Justin Laborde

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington, Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive
editor and business manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi office. room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters.
columns. and “My Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4059

Fax: (540) 462-4060

E-mai: phi@wlu.edu

Decision ’96: Dole Vs. Clinton

Issue #2: Military Spending

When the Air Force has to hold a

Countdown to the
election. . .

32 DAYS

From  the Left
Laura Knapp"99

The election is just over a month away, and
Clinton seems to have an insumountable lead.

This week, the issue under consideration is
military spending. This hot topic is going to be
a major point of contention in the presidential

and congressional debates.

Since the end of the Cold War,ﬁthe United
States has placed the military under a micro-
scope (with lowmagniﬂcation). This has occured
with a new intensiﬁcation on domestic issues.
Both Democrats and Republicans have cut mili-
tary spending, but politics has dictated the cuts.
N 0 politician wants to cut a military program in

his/her district.

On the right this week is Jason Zacher ’98,
The Ring -tum Phi Editorial Editor. On the left
will be Laura Knapp, ’97, our Democratic

columnist.

Is the military a bloated, over-protected
buerocracy, ora vital interest to/tmerica ? Where
will the challenges lie in the future ? Why do we
continue to maintain the size of our military
when other domestic problems are being ne-
glected? If you have these questions, we hope

this will help answer them.

- Jason Zacher
Editorial Editor

tives.

The topic of this week’s column — military
spending —— is the most appropriate follow-up to
last week’s column concerning the state of public
education. The contrast between these two issues
is what divides and defines liberals and conserva-

One of my favorite bumper stickers is the one
that reads, “It will be a perfect world when the
schools will have all the money they need, and the

A Air Force has to hold a bake sale to buy a bomber.”
This seemingly innocent display of irony gets
down to the meat and potatoes of this debate.

It can be safely stated that military spending in
the United States is out of control and must be
stopped. At a time when Republicans in Congress
are slashing important domestic programs such as
education, welfare and environmental protection,
the US government is spending gross amounts of
taxpayer funds to maintain a huge military com-
plex that is, in effect, rotting away in ship-yards
and hangers across the nation, never to be used in
this age of diplomatic, economic, and multilateral
intervention, through organizations like the UN.

The Cold War is over. There is no imminent
threat of war, nuclear holocaust or even a Commu-
nist revolution in our midst. We have won and we
did not even have to fire a state of relative peace. If
this is the case, then why does the United States
continue to spend $492 billion - practically the
same amount spent during the waning days of the
Cold War - on military-related purchases? Why do

bake sale to buy a bomber. . .

American children sit in over-crowded
classrooms with out-dated books taught
by over-worked and under-paid teachers?

The answer is simply mixed-up priori-
ties on the part of the conservatives that, at
present, control our government. If to be
a liberal means that I think the US should
spend its money on teaching a child how to

“It can be safely
stated that military
, spending in the
United States is out
of control and

needs t o be
stopped.”

read rather than buying an M-16, then I’ll
stand on the top of Washington Hall and
yell it to all of W&L and Lexington.

The money that Americans pay in taxes
ought to be returned to the community, in
the form of domestic programs. A cut in
military spending could bring a tax—cut
that the Republicans have been itching to
give. What makes more sense to you?
Finding an American child’s education
and in turn, his future of funding a pro-
gram that has the ability to destroy child’s
future in a different country. It’s a simple
choice for me.

Preserving international strength in the “new world order”

From the Right
Jason Zacher ’98 H

The Ring-Tum Phi Editorial Editor

With the United States sitting

on top of the heap in the “new
world order,” it is very easy to
become complacent. The specter
of communism is gone, and dicta-
tors like Saddam Hussein have been
put in their place, so why,,should
we continue to spend hundreds of
billions of dollars on defense?

Our military mission has long
been the ability to fight two re-
gional wars at once, but the Bush-
Clinton military spending cuts have
placed that mission injeopardy. In
this world where the United States
is the lone hegemon, there are still
challenges, challenges that scholar
Paul Kennedy calls, “diffuse and
numerous.”

Russia is experiencing a power
crisis now, with Boris Yeltsin’s
health failing and the communist
party experiencing a resurgence in
popularity. Transfers of power in
Russia have never been clean and
easy. Islamic fundamentalism in
the Middle East and North Africa
threatens US interests overseas.
With the possible exception of our
backyard, there are threats to US
security and interests in every cor-
ner of the world. Though these
threats may not be apparent now,
we cannot see 10-15 years down
the road. Go back to 1925 and take

a poll to see if anyone thinks Ger-
many will try to take over Europe
in eleven years.

The world’s rogue states, Iraq,
Iran, Libya, Syria, North Korea,
and Cuba are all staunchly anti-
American. None of them can di-
rectly threaten our territory now
(with the possible but unlikely ex-
ception of Cuba), but they can chal-
lenge ourinterests overseas. Japan
could be a prime target of Japan,
and with North Korea comes China.
Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Libya can all
seriously challenge the world’s oil
supply, and, like it or not, oil is a
vital US economic interest.

The Clinton administration has
probably correctly predicted that
missile attacks from secondary
powers are still a decade away, but
has incorrectly decided to put off
preparing for ourdefense until then.
Clinton has slashed spending on
technologies (much to the dismay
of defense-minded Democrats like
former Congressman Les Aspin
and former Senator Sam Nunn),
even though it was this technologi-
cal superiority that allowed us to
walk over Hussein in 1990.
Clinton’s first error: technology is
incremental and must be constantly
researched, playing catch-up in
defense can be a deadly game.

Former Secretary of Defense
Aspin and his deputy John Deutsch
completedia bottom-up review of
spending in 1993, a review that
was hampered by Clinton’s im-
posed spending limits. They de-

signed a force that would be able to
complete our military mission, but
a force that the General Account-
ing Office, the Congressional Bud-
get Office, and an independently
assembled group of former chiefs
of staff have decided is anywhere
from $50-$150 million short of
that goal.

Yes, it is true that we have won

“Go back to
1925 and take
a poll asking

howjmany 2
people feel Ger-
many will try
to take over
Europe in
eleven years.”

recent skirmishes in Grenada,
Panama, and Iraq, but these are
only skirmishes, and were won
because of Carter’s and Reagan’s
defense spending. The money we
spend now will help us 10-15 years
from now, when we cannot see the
challenges ahead. Defense spend-
ing accounts for only 4 percent of

our GDP, the lowest it has been
since the mid 1920’s.
Every country that has been at

_the top of the heap has fallen at

some point, but the United States
can learn from history by not be-
coming complacent.

The first president of the twenty-
first century needs to concentrate
spending in technologies that can
help smaller quick-response forces
gain the upper hand against any
opponent.

There are plenty of ways to cut
costs without cutting the size of
our force. Closing useless and
unnecessary military bases is one
way; not to mention the numerous
relics of the Cold War that should
just be eliminated. But both of
these have fallen victim to domes-
tic politics. K

Our problems in the intema-
tional arena are not all spending
related either. Clinton has had
extreme troubles getting our allies
to support us, and has switched
policies so many times in so many
foreign countries, that we could
devote an entire issue of The Ring-
tum Phi to write about them.

Speaker NewtGingrich saidthat
military spending is probably too
high for our needs at this time, but
it is the price to pay for being on
top. I could not agree more. If we
are to continue as the strongest
nation in the world, we cannot sim-
ply be stronger than our challeng-
ers, we need to be head and shoul-
ders above them.

 

 

The royalty, the
pagentry, the traclition:

homecoming

File Photos from Homecomings 1993 and 1994

 

 

“Z

   
  

Gambrill Corckran. '97
Nominated By:

B911
Escort:

Doug Gubner. '97
Major:

Economics. Art History

‘ Hometown:

Baltimore. MD

Laura Goodwh. '99
Nominated By:
A<I>S2
Escort:

BJ. Walker. '99
Major:

Biology. Mathematics

 

"'- Hometown:

Bridgeport. WV

Hollis Leddy. '97
Nominated By:
X‘?
Escort:

Andrew Niblock. '97

Major:
Psychology. Pre-Med

 

Hometown:

San Antonio. TX

Laura Perry. '97
Nominated By:
<I>KlP
Escort:
Dave Howard. ‘98
Major:

Iournalism

 

Hometown:

Augusta. GA

Laura Eggers, ’97
Nominated By:

A HKA

 
 
 

The Ring-tum Phi. OCTOBER 4. 1996

The Nominees Ere...

Dawn Coulthurst. '99
Nominated By:
M‘nority Student Association
Escort:
Andrew Heron. ‘98
Major:
Biology. Pre-Med
Hometown:

Chesapeake. VA

Lauren Guthrie. '97
Nominated By:
KA

iucker Bixby. '97
Major:
Economics
Hometown:

Lansdale. PA

Leigh Lundstrom. '93
Nominated By:
<I>K‘I1

Todd Denbo. '97
Major:
Art History
Hometown:

Atlanta. GA

Susie Prevost. '97
Nominated By:
KA(-3
Escort:
Lamar Villere, '97
Major:
Psychology
Hometown:

Paoli. PA

Anne Spencer. ’97
Nominated By:
2<I>E
Escort:

Alex Kostera. '97
Major:
Sociology/Anthropology
Hometown:

New Fairfield. NT

. Sally Baldwin, UVA ’98 Vaiana Teriiteliam, SBC

Nominated By:
ZAE
Escort:

Steve Fanning, ’97
Major:
Architectural History
Hometown:
Lynchburg, VA

Hoivmcomnm

TAGE 5?

 

Elizabeth Cox. ‘97 Natalia Garcia. ‘98

Nominated By: Nominated By:
HB<I> International Club
Escort: Escort:

Chaz Frank. ‘98 Glenn Miller. '98

 

Major: Major:
Chemistry Psychology
Hometown: Hometown:

Poquoson. VA Santa Domingo.

Dominican Republic

Callie Tomes. '97 Tricia Iefferson. ‘97L

Nominated By: Nominated By:
XS2 Student Bar Association
Escort: Escort:

Andrew Daters. ‘97 Shawn Boyer, ‘97L

 

M6301‘: Hometown:
Iournalism Alexandria. VA
Hometown: .

Natchez. MS

Amy McCauley. '97 Maggie Ogilvie. ’97

Nominated By: Nominated By:
<I>A® KKI“
Escort: Escort:

Colin Connolly. '97 Tommy Parrott. '97

 

Major: Major:
Iournalism Art Hbtory
Hometown: Hometown:

Greenville. SC Houston. TX

Kate Quinn. '99 Celeste Rasmussen. ‘98
Nominated By: Nominated By:
AXA ZN
Escort: Escort:

]‘eff Mitchell. '99 Geoff Bourne. '97

 

Major: Major:
Psychology Politics
Hometown: Hometown:

Winchester. VA New Orleans. LA
Laura Ward. '97
Nominated By:
IIK<I>
Escort:
Ryan Reed. '97
Major:
Tournalism
Hometown:

Meridian. MS

Sarah Wood, ’97

Nominated By‘ Nominated By:

EX om
ESCO“: Esc'6'i‘t:@
Will Elkins’ ’97 Pete Sorensen; ’97
Major:  ‘> g
French, Italian Studies
Hometown:

 

Herndon, VA

 

a J 9

  

5 PAGE 6

Pelke. cont. from pg. 2

give. And he did. Paulashouldn’tdie.
His grandmother wouldn’t have
wanted it that way and neither did Bill.

Before that day, Bill had remem-
bered his grandmother with pain. He
pictured her lying there on the dining
room floor, bleeding and in pain. He
was in turmoil. But the day he for-
gave,everythingchanged. He remem-
bered his grandmother with laughter,
love, and faith — the way she had
lived, not the way she died.

Bill began to write Paula. He told
her about his grandmother, her faith,
her love for children, and her stitched
pillows that told the stories of the
Bible. He learned that Paula was

« raised in an abusive family where hate

prevailed, not love. Paula began to
take classes in prison. She completed
high school, earning straight A’s, and
then started taking college courses.
Through their correspondence, Bill
saw her become a different person.

One day, producers from an Italian
news organization called Bill. They
wanted him to come on their show and
talk about the case. You see, most
Europeans were simply amazed by
the story. Virtually all of the Euro-
pean democracies had abolished the
death penalty by that time, and they
didn’t understand how the United
States could kill a 15-year-old-girl.
They wanted Bill to explain.

So Bill went to Italy. He met with
Italian politicians, papal representa-
tives, and organizers of a petition drive
called “Don’t Kill.” Over three mil-
lion European people had signed the
petition to save a little girl in Indiana
named Paula Cooper. Bill sympa-
thized with their efforts. He too
c@uldn’t understand why she should
be put to death.

Under the international spotlight,
Indiana was a little embarrassed. Af-
ter all, theircapital punishment statute
held that a criminal as young as 12
could be sentenced to death. To avoid
further humiliation, the Indiana legis-
lature raised the age to 16. That didn’t
help Paula. She was still on Death
Row. And the public outrage contin-
ued to boil.

Paula’s case was eventually ap-
pealed to the Indiana state Supreme
Court. The court commuted Paula’s
sentence to 60 years in prison. Bill

and his European colleagues had
achieved success. They had saved
Paula’s life. He was able to do for
Paula what he wasn’t able to do for his
grandmother. He had made a differ-
ence.

In 1993, Bill went back to Indiana
to march with a group called Murder
Victims Families for Reconciliation.
MVFR is a group of murder victims
families who seek alternatives to the
death penalty. They come together to
share their experiences and commit
themselves to the notion that killing
-—— all killing — is wrong. During the
group’s two-week project, Bill trav-
eled throughout the state telling the
story of his grandmother and Paula
Cooper.

Ever since then, Bill has traveled
the nation on a “journey of hope.” He
has dedicated his life to the abolition
of the death penalty. He attends pro-
tests, gives lectures, and organizes
grass roots organizations to help him
in his crusade. From appearances on
“Oprah Winfrey” and “Good Morn-
ing America” to abolitionist rallies,
Bill spends every day ﬁghting capital
punishment.

Bill’sjourney of hope is a terminal
one for he promises to march on until
the day he dies. At first, he marched
for himself, his grandmother, and Paula
Cooper. Today, it’s much more than
that —— Bill marches for the thousands
of Americans who simply want the
killing to stop.

   
       

FEATURES The Ring-tum Phi, OCTOBER 4, 1996

Tell the Phi abou
your sex life!

Are you a virgin?

D

. At what age did you lose your virginity?

How frequently do you participate in sexual activity?

       
    
   

 

*e Wo.uld you characterize your sexual a

up

relationship?

’z. ’

U€l"Slty C€l’lt€I'.

 
 

 

  

 

campus computer store or http://campus.apple.com/

"‘ Mﬁﬁﬁk

Save $100 on an Aﬂplegprintter 5 
when you buy a-Mac.  g  , ; ;
For further information visit’ I
University Computing in
Tucker Hall, Room 229 1

SawSl00wben}oupmrbaseaqual' ‘ Madnmb

yjwg amvmaerand punter’ , ualidlborgbodbberll. 1996 ©1996 C00l0W¢f.IncAll ' merwd
I»,/In/I-rm/ilsrzz/I Ijzt-rhim ,1 fuc‘})ine.t Cur/zomlion. um! under [name  All  mrrpuler: an dmiqnal to be natal: new

‘ Ioindivik1uulsuilb¢;9abi1i'l_v.7bIaammore(u.Si

PowerMaclntosh'5400 PowerMaclntosh'526o Appiacampussonwmpacu 01‘ 0311 455-8847 (011 campus 9 X7847)‘ 
[mar/’C"6()_3e/I20 Mil:/I6.-1/IB am PowerPC"603e/100MHz/16MBRAM Only $156. 0uer12 soﬂware titles ‘Prices 4° 11°‘ 111° 1W’ 351“ “I
g E  Cl)«/\’G‘rf/15"zligblzgi 800MB/{X CD—ROM/I4"dir/zlay included for all your student need; F re e One _ y    p I V-{rant y .

IbeAppleIogo,AppleCar'2,LmeriW1’Ier,Mac,M mam, Flzwer PowerMm'nIa9bnd ‘ ' Imdanarlu i , ‘ . . .'
Apple. Iwu800_6w7mwm8o;3”_060ITvfonm Book. a &)-lelWwraungz.\‘brvd afA[:pl¢amipulerInaIbuIerMacLsa!1udwriarkofAppleConipulerInc PowerP('LmInulemart

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, OCTOBER 4, 1996 Anvenrrsnvo PAGE 7 {
F . H  J  Approximatieisjlvg/éjcrhtgdo hours per

‘Sale

  

In I I  6
Selected Varieties

Cookies

1Zct.

Jen-0
Gelatin
Snack Pack

We Have    School
and 91PP1v  

Your Neighborhood Food Market

Begins Wednesday, Sept 10, 1996

Mtn Dew, Diet  Or

PePSi. C013

L The Bakery

Kaiser Rolls

9

ﬂ.i.3.¥

 
I

 

  

Fresh

¢

661:.

Re . or Fat Free
el Monte
Pudding Cups

week for light filing, telemarketing
person to work evenings. if
interested. please contact Mr.
Thomas or Judy Atkins at
Kockbridge Memorial Gardens
from 10 a.m. to 2 pm. Monday —
Friday, at (540) 4657750 or
fax resume to
(540) 4656197.

   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

Get to know
Miss Alvord.
Miss Coombs.
Miss Grant.
Miss Bauman.
Mister Zacher.
Mister
Bookwalter.
Mister Balsleu.
Mister
Odenwald
and
Mister Coffee
on a first name

basis.

Write for
the Phi

The Tennis/Wrestling programs
need your help!

The upcoming sports seasons
are looking for managers,
administrative assistants. video
specialists, or those intereseted
in volunteerismContact Coach
Franke at X8666 to sign up or
help with events line the
NCAA National Championship.

ézu Inch

1'
35»?
Sandwich

99

Each

 

Freshly Baked
Cheese

 

AtAllMecl<le

Prices and Offers Good Wednesday, Sept 18, Through Tuesday, September 24, 1996
nburg County Harris Teeters
We Reserve The Right To Limit: Quantities. None Sold To Dealers

YOUR ONLY CHOICE
FOR LOCAL NEWS

The Rockbridge Report

Cable Channel Two
Monday - Thursday

 

BUSIN ESS RELA me its 

YOUR. IDEAS. YOUR
AMBITION.
YOUR ENERGY.

'OUR'.”i’RAINlNG . . .»
YOUR FUTURE.

      

 la...  .

Circuit City, the nation's largest brand-name consumer electronics
and appliance retailer, has excellent opportunities available in our
Financial Trainee Program at our Corporate Headquarters in
Richmond, VA. We have enjoyed significant financial success over

the years and we strongly believe our people are the very essence of
our business.

What does this mean for you? Responsibility, personal growth and
success, and your input and advice at all levels. The Financial
Trainee Program immediately -entrusts you with substantial financial
and supervisory responsibilities. it is structured so that you work and
gain exposure to a wide variety of financial disciplines —-— from Cash
Management and Budgeting to Accounting and Corporate Finance.
You‘ll learn the dynamics of our Corporate environment, develop your

business and financial skills, and gain invaluable experience lrom the
best in the business.

   

if you’re an ambitious, creative team player completing a tour-year.
business-related college degree, check us out when we’re on cam-
pus. it will be the best career move you can make.

RESUMES MUST BE SUBMlTTED TO THE
CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE BY:
TUESDAY. OCTOBER 8, 1996

Washington and Lee University

 

A limited number of positions are also available at our Marietta, GA

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN. LEAST AFFORD IT.

location. Circuit City is an Equal Opportunity Employer and pro-
motes a drug-free workplace. ‘- A *  ' ’

CIROUI T CI

Where Smv-‘re is Slate rﬂlhc fur -.

    

  

TY.

.,-';,_,,. ,s(,-,,»(a¢g.s: f.\Jr(«.’x(,: _1',.ni. Pi!’ fbir.-V .-lrolul. :\'(.. fork, 3'?’

.in"r altnnl to :.~‘(tVL‘ for r'etii'el't'tcm"_?
The truth is, ‘you ti;in’I. al‘i'or’d not to.
Not. \\’l.“tt."l1_V‘Utt l‘t*(tlll(.’. that your retire-1tto;~nt'
can last" 20 to 30 __vm1r$ or more. Ymfll \v.:mt‘
 live at least as i:ornt'or‘t;ibl__\«' then usyoir
do now. .-'\n¢l ("lint 'l'.lh'Cs‘ planning.
I’r_\' st;.ir'tir1g to savc:'1m\\»'. _you can (alt.-2
.'i(l\';tIil;'tgt' (if. lax (luli:rt'ul tutti give‘ your‘
fl’t()l".x“\' time to L=r:>xri;.munt.l emtl g;r‘m\'.

Evert il7_yt)ii'i'¢- not c=nunting._' the _Vt'.‘.rr.s tn
r(:tir(‘inc:r)1, ‘yum can count on 'I‘I:‘\;\.«CRI‘:l“
to help you build the l‘ut‘l1l“¢‘ 3'0“ ‘k’-‘“"""‘-’ ‘
with llrzxilalc: retirement and l'ax—dcl:t'r’r‘e<l
annuity plans, .'-I t.‘i\’(‘I‘$t' pt)i‘tlblici oi invest»
ment clmiccs. and :1 r‘r:'c.urrl ml‘ personzil
scr'vicc that .‘:lp¢'.II'tS -l75yr¢ar‘s,

Over‘ 1.8 rriillimx ptmplt‘ ill t‘(3ll€«'|ll0l_l N”!
I‘t?St'.‘£ll‘t.‘ll put 'l'l:\r\-CRlil" at the top at

 

. . ~ K , . ‘. . ,’ . .

 C<iir.~'.'i<lt-r‘ this: Set aside ;ust' 31m; L'.;tCl'l their list lm‘ rciirrermrit plaririirigg. \\ ll) H01
1 ~ ‘ 7 . , -. ' ‘ . V’

 rnimtli liugii'\r1r1)g, Ell £1.£’._t2.)<.) n\l}(.l"\ ml um }()ll1 ltiun. . ‘ ‘ .

;: __ _ _ , .  . =' ,... vk . _. . ' ..  )l- r and lv.-..'rr‘n how sum ilc it‘ IS

.-, ¢|Ct.‘l.ltllllldt(‘ our ftvt/2.10:.) r\_ in mm. .1 In .1) F

I’ Wm r't"'u*l1 '18:’ 6'3 lint V\‘il.ll’ Ion vciirs and in huilli 11 SW-'1ll'0 Will‘-’l'l'<)\\' Whllll V00

;.,  L. «,2, ‘.44 . ’ ..’ ‘ ~ I‘ ‘ _‘ gr “,‘

 ‘yr)u‘H lmvg m lmrlgct (‘>2 rt} traclr month liuw time and l ‘:‘>’\-(/ Rl..t xvmlung on

-I; to i‘c.'u'h the satiric goal. - .Y"‘” 5"!“

 Start plmmimy yourfurrrrc. Call our Iirxr-alltmwt Hoflifw 11? 1 300 342'-3333»
3 r A

w, ‘

3, - Ensuring the future

 ~ . 0 c

i: for those who shape it.”


> ~,;“.,,,,_._-_..,,r,,-. ,-1 (run! :1 :1 5'.‘ I 5.».-/.'.-.I.»~.'I; II {.1 H.'.’r!<'u.'.’:t‘:' .-Irumrélz.-. 'I1s';z.> rule A}! I-‘.
I \ ) H I ,.,_._;,m. ‘,(,\v,1(._;,,.,._.,.‘.; ,-,._.,-,r.'(.; tI€l'i'.zrl;i/..:Ir.v.m' r‘r.:.'r:/‘nit. /

 

 

n u I § 0

Generals In action this week: 0 he ‘K  _tum  Last week.s resuﬂs. 1
Foorruu. - Sat. vs. Randolph-Macon. 2:00 what.” _ W‘ 294“ at Centre

Msoocn - Sat. vs. Gutlford. Noon: Wed. vs. VMI. 6:30 He _ W‘ 64' vs_ Gaucher W. 2_L at E. Mennonite

Wsoccn Sat. vs. R-MC. 3:00: Sun. vs. Wooster. 2:00: we _ w_ 7_0' vs. Gumord; W. 9_o. at Sweet Bum,

Thurs‘ Vs’ Roanoke‘ 4:00 Vonrznua. - Second at Gettysburg Tournament;

Vouzrmu. - Wed. vs. Emory & Henry. 6:30 W. 3_2 vs. Bndgcwmer

w’”""°'° ' 5”" "“"°"'“’ ”°""‘"" 7‘°° WA'n:Pa.o- L. 17-la. vs. cw; L. 22-11. vs. Princeton

6°" ' M°n"T“es' at Fe‘-rum Invitational Oman Oourrrn - Men 16th at Cortland St..women 2nd at Greensboro

PAGE 8 Foo'rnALL, Soccrm, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, Cnoss COUNTRY OCTOBER 4, 1 996

Generals’ late rally stuns
unbeaten Centre, 29-21

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
PHI SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals showed the

   

expecting to lose on their home
ﬁeld to the winless Generals.
The absence of injured starting
tailback Seth McKinley and
starting quarterback Brooks

would put on the board.

Senior quarterback Tommy
Rueger sparked an eight-play,
76-yard drive with a 50-yard
pass to sophomore wideout Chas

halfway through the ﬁnal quar-
ter. With only 8:21 remainingin
the game, junior kicker Matt
Holbrook hit a37-yard ﬁeld goal
to give the Generals the 22-21

Colonels Fischer added to Centre’s conﬁ- Chastain. Ruegercompleted the advantage.

thatit’sall dence. series, scoring on a one-yard On the next possession, se-

a b o u t Centre took the lead early in keeper to cut the lead to 21-13 nior defensive tackle Peyton

rank last the first half asthey capped off a with 8:34 left in the half. Williams deflected a Centre

Saturday six play, 42-yard drive with a The Generals dominated the pass. Senior linebacker Travis

as W&L touchdown. But W&L’s Jon second half. Nick Hodge putthe Wisdom was there to pull down

defeated Benazzi gave a resounding an- game within reach for W&L the interception at the Centre

C e n t r e swer as he returned the ensuing when he snagged a seven-yard 33-yard line.

College, kickoff 90 yards for a touch- touchdown pass from Rueger, Ruegeragainconnectedwith

29-21. down. completing a 10-play, 71-yard Chastain on a 30-yard pass, giv- Photo oounesy of Julien Williams

T h e Centre scored on their next drive. Thiscut the mar into21- in W&La first and oal situa- - . - t

Colonels two possessions, extendingtheir 19 at the 9:29 mark in%he third. tiogn. Rueger then mage his sec- Peyton Williams (90) and Omar Monelm (77) put pressure on Centre 8 offense’
came into lead to 21-7. Those would be The Generalsthen tried to tiethe ond touchdown for the day on a

the game unbeaten and were not

the last points the Colonels

score on a two-point conver-
sion, but failed.
Centre stayed ahead until

 

one-yard sneak, moving the
score to its ﬁnal of 29-21.
Just over three minutes later,

senior linebacker McGuire Boyd
clinched the game for the Gen-
erals when he intercepted a Cen-

Photo courtesy of Julien Williams

Floyd Young (21) takes the handoff from quarterback Tommy Rueger in the
Generals’ 29-21 comeback victory. Young rushed for 60 yards in the game.

tre pass at the W&L 10-yard line
with six seconds remaining.

W&L head coach Frank
Miriello was pleased with his
team’s come-from-behind road
victory. One of the high points
of Saturday’s game, according
to Miriello, was the improved
performance of the offensive
line. The o-line, which returned
only one of last year’s starters,
has “come to maturity” after
struggling to generate an offense
in the Generals’ ﬁrst two games.

Rueger, who made the transi-
tion from receiver back to his
natural quarterback position for
injured Brooks Fischer, also
gave a great performance against
Centre. In addition to scoring
two touchdowns, he completed
12 passes for 185 yards.

“The win at Centre was a real
important one for the team...We
know that we can win even with
our backs against the wall like
they were last week,” Rueger
said.

The Generals have another

challenging game scheduled for
Homecoming. They will meet
the Randolph-Macon Yellow
Jackets at 2 p.m. tomorrow on
Wilson Field.

Rueger hopes the Generals
will have a successful Home-
coming.

“We want to win this Home-
coming this weekend over
Randolph-Macon,” he said.
“They are a tough team that has
beaten us the last few years, but
we have a lot of conﬁdence go-
ing into this game after our win
last week.

“Nothing would be nicer to
beat them in front of our home
crowd.”

The Yellow Jackets are a fa-
vorite for the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference title. But
Miriello believes that his team,
although they will have to play a
near-perfect game, can “Beat the
Best”.

He said, “We’ll be there at
the end, and hopefully we can
pull it off.”

Volleyball storms back to beat Bridgewater

BY KELLEY Torn-:N

 

“We snatched victory from

 

Alison Beard, explaining the

the Generals’ victory, said Mar-

was one of the team’s goals this

PHI STAFF WRITER thelaws Of defeat.” Said C0-Cap- team’s two losses in the begin- tin. year, said Thomsen.
t a i n ning. “We couldn’t have engi- The Generals haven’t lost a
H i l a r y “ E v - neered the comeback without game at home since 1994 when
Washington and Lee’s vol- Martin. e r y o n e her,” she said. Bridgewater defeated them.

le y b all W & L was like, “She’s kind of a quiet force “Last year we absolutely
team W88 105! the O K , you can take for granted on ev- killed Bridgewater in the ﬁrst
two points first two here’s re- erything- offense, defense,serv- two games and then we just lost
a w a y g a m e s demption ing, enthusiasm and leadership.” our energy basically and lost the
from 33-0 and were time- it’s Thomsen, who the team’s nextthreegames,”said Beardof
d e f e a t b e h i n d now or coaches named Most Valuable the game that was played on

Tuesday 13-6 in n e v e r, ” Player for the match, played Bridgewater’s home turf.
whenthey the third said jun- while suffering from kidney This year, the teams reversed
rallied to W h 6 n ior Holly stones. roles when W&L came from
b e a t t h e y Thomsen She had to siton the sidelines behind to win the last. three

' started to of the during the Gettysburg Touma- games.

for the Win. team’s attitude change in the merit last weekend and watch as “Oh my God, lcan’t even put
ﬁrst time in Washington and Lee The team was Overconfident third game. W&L lost to Gettysburg. it into words,” said Martin of the

volleyball history.

going into the match, said junior

Thomsen played a key role in

The victory over Bridgewater

victory. “How sweet it is.”

Tennis teams make strong showings in
Rolex Southeastern Regional tourney

BY Scorr BOOKWALTER
PHI Srorus EDITOR

The Washington and Lee tennis teams gave great
performances last weekend in one of the biggest
tournaments of the year.

The W&Lwomen had six singles players advance
to the round of 16 and a doubles team win the
championship at the Rolex Southeastern Regional
tournament, held at Mary Washington College in
Fredericksburg. The W&L men, who were hosting
the men’s Rolex tournament, placed a singles player
and a doubles team into the semiﬁnals.

Women’s tennis coach Cinda Rankin was de-
lighted with her team’s play at Mary Washington.

“It was fantastic,” she said. “l was just very, very
pleased with everybody’s play.”

She said the performances were especially pleas-
ing because the team has a lot of young players, and
other teams at the tournament had been practicing
longer since they had started school earlier.

Junior Ericka Shapard was the tournament star as
she ﬁnished runner-up in the singles bracket and
teamed up with junior Berry Blankinship to capture
the doubles crown and advance to the Rolex Division
III championships.

Shapard, the number-one seed overall in the singles
bracket, stormed out of the gate in amazing fashion
by winning 36 out of 37 games in her ﬁrst three
matches. Things got a little more tense in the
quarterﬁnals when she faced Blankinship, but Shapard
dispatched her doubles partner, 6-2, 6-3. Shapard
then encountered even tougher opposition in the
semiﬁnals by yet another teammate, freshman Brook
Hartzell. Hartzell hung tough but Shapard ﬁnally
outlasted her, 7-6 (5), 7-5.

Mary Washington’s Kirsten Erickson, the num-
ber-two seed, spoiled Shapard’s run by defeating the
junior in the title game, 7-5, 6-1.

Still, Rankin was very impressed by her top
player’s performance.

 

“She has stepped up from the number-two spot (last
year) to be our number-one player,” Rankin said.

Besides Shapard, Blankinship and Hartzell, senior
Anna O’Connor, sophomore Mary Celeste Foster and
freshman Erin Eggers also made it to the round of 16 in
singles.

Rankin also cited the play of sophomore Laura Cohen,
W&L’s number-eight player, who lost in the ﬁrst round
to Shea Rickard of Emory & Henry but then proceeded to
reach the semiﬁnals in the consolation bracket.

Shapard returned to action in doubles play, where she
and Blankinship torched their opponents in their ﬁrst

Photo by Melissa Sills

The W&L men’s tennis team hosted the
Rolex regional tournament last weekend.

fourmatches, losing only 3 games out of 5 1 . This earned
the W&L duo a ticket to the ﬁnals where Shapard saw
a familiar face in Mary Washington’s Erickson, the
player who ousted her in the singles title.

History would not repeat itself. Shapard gained
revenge as she and Blankinship destroyed Erickson and
Leah Morris, the top-seeded team, 6-2, 6-1 . The victory
earned the W&L pair a place in the Rolex Division III
championships. '

Rankin is looking forward to the trip to the national
Rolex tournament.

“By the time we go there, we’ll have more practice
and should play even better,” she said.

The women’s team will next be in action Monday the
14th, when they face a tough Carnegie Mellon team.
Carnegie Mellon’s number-one player beat W&L’s
Natalia Garcia last year, so the Generals will have their
work cut out for them.

“I think it’s a very good test of our players,” Rankin
said.

The men’s tennis" team also fared well in the Rolex
tournament. The Generals placed two players in the
singles quarterﬁnals. Sophomore Dale Pretila, seeded
11th, advanced to the semifinals after upending 4th seed
Chris Wallace of Mary Washington, 1-6, 7-6(2), 6-2.
But second seed and eventual champion Miro Beran of
Washington College proved too tough in the semis,
knocking out Pretila, 6-1, 6-2.

Senior Peter Hammond also had a strong run through
the singles bracket, winning three matches to get to the
quarterﬁnals, before he was halted by top seed Doug
Neagle of Salisbury State, 6-4, 6-1.

Pretila and Hammond then teamed up in doubles to
cruise through their first two matches before running
into teammates Tom Washburn and Damian Brady in

the quarterfinals. Pretila and Hammond prevailed in
three games, 6-1, 6-7(5), 6-3, to advance to the semiﬁ-
nals, but were knocked off there by Salisbury State’s
Neagle and Nathan Bell, 6-1, 6-2.

The men will conclude their fall season next week-
end when they host the W&L Fall Classic. Matches will
start at 9 a.m. both days.

