 

~l7C~i‘i"'iw'l.1'FiP«i i. inmnv
T1’ =5 LE}: LlrM’El'l$4TY'i
‘ N VA 

3 .

 

 

 

 

    

 

     

         

  
   

‘ § Q _ «O
‘ 1
ii i ii B 
‘ .
/3
VOLUME 98, NUMBER 1 2 WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA NOVEMBER 1 5, 1996
i Planned COUTSE
I
I
NOTES studies poverty
‘ HON E You R INTERVIEW SK] LLS: BY KATHERINE MAYURNIK for Interdepartmental 423 in the 1.997
Unsure of your interview skills? Career Development will Pi” STAFF wiiiiﬁii‘ wiiiiei iiieim’ which may _be combined
host a Virginia Association of Colleges and Employers . With 3“ "1ooP°“oo"i studios of honors
I (VACE) workshop for students and VACE members inter- Immersed in the world of Opulohcei thesis-
i ested in improving their interview techniques. decadence and comfort at Washington “The courses will explore the nature,
3 _ i33”)’ OiDohh¢“a_of the P3mPi_i“ M35 Program at Vir- and Lee, it is easy to lose sight of the scope and causes of poverty,” said Pro-
it h giiiia Tech’ and Keith Poiis’ assisiaiii Vice Piesideiii iiiid horrors of poverty plaguing the outside fessor Beckley. “Course work will in-
 college relations manager for Signet Banking Corporation id 1 d rt , ff t th. i.k b. I
Wm be the principal Speakers wor . i i . c u epove y se ec on ings I e io -
The speakers will cover topics including new methods for However, just because we live in the ogy and psychology as well as examine
conducting productive interviews and will alert students to lap of luxury as compared with the rest of its effect on the environment.”
‘ what recruiters look for in an interview. The workshop is the planet, doesn’tmean that students are Several other disciplines such as eco-
Sohoouiod for Mondalis NoV- 18 in Noﬂhom A“oito1'l“m- completely apathetic either. Consider- nomics willbe integrated into the course.
ing the overwhelming number of “ Iwillspeakto otherclasses in different
W 81 L P R O  S O R H O N O R E D : Rockbridge County residents who go to departments about the effects poverty
ll Pamela Simpson, W&L art history professor and local bed hungry every night, the problem lit- has on the subject they are studying,”
authoiliYooeigogghoiroutslagiiﬁlg  and Caisoiogho” erally hits close to home. Professor Beckley said. “Professors from
iiyizgihoigiiieid in girevilsgfﬁhon T;eg§Culpmiri,:ig,iiac;._'  “I thin: tliehsiilidentsbzit W&fL are ytery olther depariiiients will come speak in my
1 Graﬂy, 1862-1929; the catalogue of the ﬁrst comprehensive Cohceiiie wi '3 pm em 0 Pove 3'’ C ass as we ' _
oxhibitoi-Giafiysswoik Siiico1930_ The exhibition from Feb. stated Dr. Harlan Beckley, professor of Also, the Ford Foundation encour-
15 through May 1,1996, and Simpson served as guest curator. religion and director of the new Shep- aged the proposal committee to apply for
' Other achievements include Outstanding Faculty Award herd Program for the Interdisciplinary a grant which, if received, would fund a
from the Virginia Council of Higher Education (1995), an gt d fp it _ «st d t ' or d ~ r h- f f
Award of E"°°“F“°° from the southeasiem Chapter of the ...‘.’..¥.‘§..i ?.Y§..i¥, as i‘ip.'§i°§..Z §I.'."I$.‘§2l';.°..'.§‘.?..‘.5,’.i.’.§‘.’igiZii’i..‘.’.i..élfsiiiii
Society of Architectural Historians and a VFIC Mednick .th ie ,, h t k I t d rt t I 101
Fellowship Award. She is currently onaone-year fellowship wi pooi peop ' _ ave a_°ii ii iii epa men a_ ' ,
at the National Humanities Center at the Research Triangle The ShoPho1'd Progfama which “'35 The "‘tom5i“Pa oohoootoo "1 3550913’
it Park, NC, proposed about ﬁve years ago byagroup tion with Spelman College in Atlanta,
consisting of faculty and students, will GA and Berea College in Berea, KY,
H  N     be funded for ﬁve years by Thomas R. would give students an opportunity to
The Film Society will show the controveirsial Sffoittish ﬁlm Shepherd, an alumnus and trustee, and work with poor people in rural or urban
ti Trainspotting this weekend at the Trouba our. e movie, i.:. ...:c.. KI--- -~- _  - - - — — - - - - ld— b.
directed by Danny Boymfocuses ontho iooovoi-y from ho,-‘om offered to all undergraduate majors altlld partsbof thglworlg. Expeiisgs vtvo: 1:
withdrawal through the addict Mark,Renton. fTri1linspotting, “km ‘w W-‘- “'~ possibly to law students,hallthoufgh tl e {)6ll’I1l.U'1§1a fe an tsorns s u en s ou
the second highest grossing British movie 0 a time, is a ’ S proposal has yet to pass t e aw acu ty e e igi e or a S lpen .
black comedy based on Irvine Welsh’s novel of the same title. Papyrus on  cyru board M The Ford Foundation has not deny.
a, Soreehihgs Wih be at 7330 Phi‘ °h Friday’ Nov’ 1.5 iiiid Still recovering from his recent cardboard SPam'Can Interdepartmental 101 will be offered ered their decision yet, but Beckley re-
Saiuiday’ NOV‘ 1.6 ai.iiiii Ti°iiiiaiiioiii' £5 aiways’ admission Coronation of last Week» Cyrus Mccormick is plastered with in the 1997 Fall Term and can fulﬁll a mains somewhat optimistic. “They did
is iiee’ but coiiiiibiiiioiis are we come ' the familiar “C” and skull of the elusive Cadaver Society. division four general education ioquiw
WI     ment. Students taking 101 may sign up Please see POVERTY. pg. 4
I British Actress Claire Bloom, internationally known for , _ , - ' '
her work on stage and in Hpnywood, is coming to Lenfesvs University of Minnesota changes tenure policy, faculty feels freedom of thought jeopardized
Keller Theatre for a one-timtlifperforrliiance oliil Shakespeare ’ I
with a twist. The actress pe orms a one wit no props or Z
costumes and portrays only the women in theiwell-known I e n    U a  S  L   lo 
‘ plays. Ms. Bloom take%(t)he stage as Juliet, Portia and others
Saturday, Nov. 16 at 8: p.m. _ . . . .
, . f It b ’ d de _ , but it is a privelege distaste here. _
. i BY Liz DEWER v3hiichyIiiciI:iiiiii’tiitiliisnl<nfziidiiiilitiy iiriiitiirinbers ought to abuse. McAhren voiced concern that such a philosophy
S O P H O M O R   D U E S ' PH’ STAFF whim“ They ought not to think because they are tenured they damages academics. “If even more [research] is to be
All members of the Class of ’99 should stop by the can do or say whatever they want,” expected, then faculty will S=‘i‘y they n_6ed_ 21 Smaller
it S°Ph°m°i° ciassiahicoiiisideihe °°'°P iiexiweek Miimbeis A headline on the front page of last Saturday’s Faculty members can become tenured as soon as courseload, said McAhren. The institution cannot
Ofihe S°Ph°ih°i° Leadeisiiip Coiiiicii wiii be Coiieciiiig $10 Washington Post read, “Minnesota Faculty, Regents they are hired, or within their ﬁrst six years at W&L. afford to expand the faculty,’and so class size goes up,
ciass dues’ disiiibiiiiiig ciiiss iisiiiiis i° those wii.° oideied Put Tenure to the Test-- Campus at center of growing Generally, the promotion from Associate Professor to writing and student/faculty interaction goes down. If
‘hem 135‘ 5P"i“8v and Packing °hhh°d'f°°d dohahoiis i0 be battle over job guarantees and power in academia.” AssistantProfessor is regardedasthe signal thatone has you cut courseloads, course offerings goes down. The
given to the homeless. could this be the start of a national trend? become tenured. . . d P . impiicatioiis subtlely work their way throughout the
This isaprofessor’s fear, that universities willelimi— “Under [both] former President Wilson an resi- institution. “ _ _
‘i ' ‘ ' ' ' d El d h h I t h b t’ ht d Boetsch commented that, We generally think that it
K5‘-LE F‘ ” °$T5 PLAY“ EA” ' “ “- :‘.:*'° ‘:.:“":;-:-*r‘.:*::;°;’. ‘:33‘$;::.::.“:;£*.§::*2:';:e:: .2": ..:.i.i::.::.:f:ri.:'.::;::°i.S. .:i..7::‘.:.%, .2221.    ..  ..   
The Theatre Depaiiiiieiii wiii iiosi a ieadiiig of Eiiiwiiiiii  1'6 a fi i iiheir litics rigiid more formal and often more frightening for the you are keeping up with your discipline.” He pointed
Albee>sA Delicate Balance, a Pulitzer-prize winner that was re Iila ii lOI’lf oro S hepgat Washington and Lee need not tenufe candidate.” outthat whiiethe School encourages facuity to research’
ieceiiiiy ievived on Bioiidwayi ' ' f tili itiiticiznesrse inn be dissolved Dean of the College Tenured professors can be dismissed, but such cases W&L has no publishing requirement. The Office of the
l‘ A Delicate Balance is the -Story of a ioiigiiime mamage 1:" at B iit h commented “We are not discussing are rare. As long as professors continue to be good Dean of the College provides the resources to enable
4 shsiaihed by coiiiioiied eiii°ii°ii' The ciihiacieis °°.me i0 d ‘iiieiitwaoevifiiih tenure ” i instructors and stayinvolvedintheirdiscipline,they are professors to continue to do research, give lectures, and
iiicogiiize iiowiiiey iiaveiosiioveifiiiieiediiawayiimiiiiiiey Oihg f y s el onteniureasasafe uardthatthey will seen as fulfilling the job requirements. “Teaching go on sabbaticals. Boetsch allayed any fears of a
aiii iii iiiai iieiicaie baiaiic? beiweiiii saiiiiy and madnessii ttio ersessosii riedil) the Universit th) adhere to certain effectiveness is the number one priority,” said Boetsch. “publish or perish” move here, “W&L is a unique
The Casi feaiiii-es Maria Haivdm ,9’/ii iiasoii Siiiaffei 97i ii: 1:: pics i‘i‘We viiiantthe facultyiio feel thatviews that The second is academic research, and the third is institution and we are not out to emulate anyone.”
Aiidieii Rosa igsisiieiiy Adanis ggiiioc Meiiiiio 97iMegaii i eoexgressed are unim eded ” said Boetsch “The academic citizenship through participation in the Uni- “We thinkthatour guidelines forprofessional devel-
‘ ‘iohhsoh i982 aiidiioiiy Eisiiis  d N 17 t2.00 iviiiholeppoint of a libergl arts education is the free versity community.” opment and academic citizenship are working ﬁne for
i - The ieadiiigwiiiiakep-aceoii iiii ayi 0v: a i pm. exchan e of ideas so we think it is important that the Although someliberalartscolleges suchasAmherst us,” summed up Boetsch.
ii iii iiie Keiiei Tiieaiiiei Tickeis are “oi required and ii“ are facult gis free to eh age in that exercise.” and Williams have moved toward a policy commonly Faculty here can rest assured that the anti-tenure
i weicoiiie iii iiiieiidi Acicording to Hgistory Department Head Robert called “publish or perish,” which makes tenure contin}; gioviment in Minnesota has not made it’s way this far
“ ' ’ rt t t f t blication, such plans are regarded wit out .
ii    McAhren, Tenure is an impo an guaran ee 0 a gen upon pu
The first issue of The Washington and Leef, the W&L I
Environmental’ Awareness Committee’s newsletter, is now E t p h I n O n  e n ts
 Ca Cl n re reneurs cas
The EAC will sponsor their second mpus ean-up , - _
* project on Saturday, Nov. 16 from 2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. BY C-E. MILLER wiisii ievfiii oiddenouhhioggvei T Tfiiii
Interested students should meet in the B-_D_-G quad. _ PHI STAFF WRITER hhiidst 5° 5 3" Seivijes cotiiipiiﬂiis
If you have any suggestions for activities or questions and h¢tW0fk§- He 3 50 Puts ogo or
about EAC 3CtiVltl65a Contact EAC President Anthony There are many ways to make money machines designed for CAD/CAM, soft- _
DV3TSk35 ai4o3’7202- around Lexington. Some students work ware which is used by architects for Pm STAFF
‘ .1 d b P 5 ‘Z in the community or on campus, but a ‘drafting. A newer division in T-Tech
_Comp i e y eggy tun select few, actually cam money from handles some desktop publishing.‘ Does the idea of co-ed slumbe;
businessthey dothemselves. It isn’teasy, “After I take Bill Gates over, I intend iialiity untdeci tlie stziirseisq aogJ;>UPn(]>e
but the rewards can be outstanding. to thank all the people who have helped 8” Schulz“ asniih ﬁiabiigi fér Hu_
‘ Sophomore Eric Bittner,.who calls me,” Story said. “It IS ‘a real challenge man“? are sponsoring SieeP_Out in
i himself a“crafty guy,” gets his spending starting your own, business, no matter the De" in honoroi-National Hunger
money by making wreaths and swags for what age you are. and Homoiossness weekon wednes-
Christmas. His clientele is mostly from Peter Eliades ’81 helped Story start day, Nov, 20 at 1Q rim. .
home, where his mother acts as his agent his business. While Story was volun- Senior Brad Philipson, president
it showing her friends and other perspec- teering with Eliades’ campaign fora del- of Habitat for Hlimahliya 53YS this
. A . . t t E1-adosnotioodsto vstaiom annual event which, occurs nation
’ O P I N  iiiie ciieiiis iiei soii S wokiiii . I iigitihe Sea i ii d m m- negyhe could wide, “combines activities which
- - _ led es in “It is easier than wor ing part time. wi compu ers an e io _ educate college campuses and raise
Eici’ iiFiCi Spea.k.oui agaiiisi hazingh PL ﬁg do things on my own time in my spare make a lot of money trouble-shooting community awaionossgs
Greeni'and' Poiiiicai gioaiing From i e e ' time when I don’t have a test to study people’s problems. Story became inter- “ThisiSw&L’Sfjrsttjme partici.
‘ page 2 for,” Bittner said. “Plus work is more ested and asked Eliades to help him with = patingin I-Iungerand Hqinelessness
fun because I enjoy what I am doing.” the necessary paperwork. Photo by Mark Slomiany \:_€6k,b S<;il1]dt1:h1:|l:Soli- W: “Foot
, . cc ' ' ' . t t
Freshman Tim Story, owns T-Tech, The cheapest business license in Freshman Tlm ‘Story, owner of inilsololeg re“é()1;:it5i(‘;vrIl’i‘[:VtV}“1(':fl*"t‘l‘l1l:'.:-’;
>   his 0Wh Compute’ bhsihess which he T-Tech’ llifpairs an Apple Theeventwillincludeacampfilei
i ..i  . .  3 Southern Collegian reemerges on started when he was 15 years old. He Please see BUSINESS, pg. 4 PowerBoo . got cho&?i:ie,.ﬁnd Sdgores, an? the
  It - , uting u wi provi eextras eep-
camptisi Roger D.ayi acoustic l N N T R  N S I T H O N ing bags to those who need them.
alum, keeps coming back for 6‘ V, M _ . Naiionai Hunger. aim Home-
more. Students prepare for music 4' _ ’  llzfflkblys gush:
; , recital. page 3 The Phi’s continuing coverage as V.M.|. follows in W&L s footsteps and goes co-ed dent Campaign Against Huﬂgerand
Last Wednesday, lawyers from the Justice Department “That’sessentiallyafalse statement,” said NeilWhitmore Homelessness, which spent some
’ told US District Judge Jackson Kiser that they need a plan. of VMI Admissions in regards to the allegations. “We have time near W&L at its Annual Con-
S   Th I at k‘ f ' rehens've been actively recruiting by doing [everything from] ference at UVA in 1992.
, . agendizii ciiinaliiowiiiiirigiiiiiigslsiiilﬁariyiliiitiiuiidiiii/iMI) plzims  ff: name Searches 10 contacting Public and Private This is an opportunity for inter-
I Men S soccer and volleyball teams fa" in ODAC to recruit and assimilate women into the state-funded schools.” ested W&L students to experience a
i championship games. Emory and Henry denies» school. This query stems from a belief that VMI has _The Justice Department’s lawyers want Judge winter night like millions of home-
, ' been lax in their recruitment operations in regards to Kiser to force theinstitute to submitawritten plan in less do. All are welcome to partici-
Generals footbah a chance for the ieague title‘ womerr no more than 30 days. pate in this free, strictly platonic
page 6 This probe into VMI’s operations has been met with . VMI is planning an open house for this weekend Sleep-Out to support National Hun-
resistance, and campus ofﬁcials state that this accusation by and ofﬁcials expect 18 women to be among the perspective ger and Homelessness Week.
‘ the Justice De artment could not be further from the truth. students.
P

 

   

 

PAGE 2

Focus on our
real education,
not our grades

Life on the Hill
C. E. Miller ’98

The freshman midterm grades
are in, and looks like the adminis-
tration has proof. Winter Rush is a
good thing, the grades are the high-
est they have ever been. It seems
this school keeps getting better and
better. If I applied for the class of
2,000 there would have been a big
fat rejection in my mailbox. I am
not smart enough to be at this
school. At least smart as the ad-
ministration has deﬁned it with the
selection of the sophomore and
freshman classes.

What do I mean, well the way I
see it many of the students ac-
cepted here have learned to jump
through all the hoops. Apply to a
specific number of schools and
have the correct amount of com-
munity service and extra curricu-

_ lar activities on the resume. They

performed well in high school and
took the SAT prep courses. The
list goes on and on. It is a formula
for success in the world these indi-
viduals are looking to gain en-

“There is so
much more to
life than get-

ting an A.
Maybe profes-
sors need to
stress that
more.”

trance into.
: I thought maybe this process

wjould stop when we reached ear: "

lege. But it is solmuch more for-
malized. I always hear students
Complaining bitterly about the
grades they have received jeopar-
dizing the chance to get into a good
graduate school, law school, or
medical school. I get told by these
same people that its okay for me to
have a B- average because I only
want to finish college.

What I want to know is: where
is the learning process. I sit through
classes where the only answers
given to my professors are out of
the textbook. Directly out of the
textbook word for word. These
aren’t science or math classes, these
are classes that ask for students to
analyze. These classes ask for the
person to think about the reading,
to apply it, and to understand it.

To think for oneself. To read, to
understand, to think beyond the
surface of the material. This is what
a liberal arts school is about. Espe-

cially when one is in the arts de-
partments. Science majors are a
different breed. I know one, I live
with one. The issue is about facts,
about X=Y. I don’t care if my
doctor understands Homeric
epithaphs.

The people I am really con-
cerned about are those sophomore
and freshmen that I see fumbling
to survive in a liberal arts atmo-
sphere, by simply following the
formulas that got them here. I hear
conversations all the time that re-
fer to cold tests, and what the for-
mula to follow is to get the A.

There is so much more to life
than getting the A. Maybe profes-
sors need to stress that more. I
don’t know if the school is failing
to educate us, or we are failing to
educate ourselves. I don’t want to
include everyone in this. I have
been in many classes where this
was not true. Mostly upper level
classes with fewer than 10 stu-
dents; classes that demanded par-
ticipation and original thought.

I guess this is mostly a message
to those of you who hyperventilate
at the mention of a B-. Get over it.
It isn’t the end of the world. To the
administration this isn’t about tum-
ing out a school full of people with
the same grades, who can recite the
same information, and make the
university statistics little bit better.

This is about preparing students
with a liberal education, one that
will help them in many areas of
theirlife, teaching them to think, to
apply, to understand.

Stop the intense focus on grades.
My freshman class had the highest
first term grades ever, the class
after us beat our record, and I am
sure the freshman of ’00 will shat-
ter that record again.

Acknowledge the accomplish-
ments that really matter, Habitat
for Humanity, Community Big

Brother/Sisterprogram.Societyfor I
' the Arts poetry readings. Students

ﬁghting hunger. This is what makes
us real, what binds us together.
Grades are irrelevant. In 10 or 15
years, I’ll come back and no one is
going to care that I graduated with
a B- average, and it probably won’t
have destroyed me that I didn’t go
to a prestigious graduate school.
What matters is teaching us to re-
ally think, think of solutions to the
everyday unsolvable issues-—crime,
poverty, balancing the budget.

So this is my challenge to the
administration--publicize the ser-
vice of the students that make a
difference in the character of the
student. The Robert E. Lee ideal
gentlemen and lady. Grades are
such a small part of success and
are overwhelmingly stressed. The
obsession with breaking into the
top 10 in US News & World Re-
port is misguiding the focus of
Washington and Lee students.

dent.

and obscenity.

@112 ‘ﬂing-tum iﬁlri

 

Executive Editor ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord
Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..l-lillary Coombs
News Editor ....................................................................... ..Ta.rah Grant
Assistant News Editor ....................................................... ..Tom Wadlow

Editorial Page Editor ...................... ..
Sports Editors ............................... ..Scott Bookwalter, Bethany Bauman
.................................. ..Dave Balsley
............................... ...Andrea Ewing
............................. ..Mark Slomiany

................................ ..Jason Zacher

Features Editor ............................. ..
Assistant Features Editor .............. ..
Photography Editor ........................ ..

Business Manager ......................... ..
Advertising Manager ...................... ..
Circulation Managers .................... ..

.................................. ..Will Hershey
.................................. ..Chip Harrell
....... ..Daniel Harrell. Justin Laborde

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school
year at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for
The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Executive
Editor and Business Manager. but The Ring-tum PM is otherwise indepen-

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and letters.
All submissions must be in the Phi omce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-tum
Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for content and length. Letters.
columns. and “My Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court definitions of libel

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Oﬂlce Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, NOVEMBER 15, 1996

HDPC ;/‘.0

   

is foolélrxﬁ up
/Vl\/ ’i‘o\c5c.(_

Dominos
Returns

o/\c>

 
     

 

The big W&L hazing compromise

GreenLand
Betsy Green ’97

By now, everyone is probably
aware of the article in The New
York Times magazine about haz-
ing at A Certain Conservative,
Selective Liberal Arts School In
The East Named After Two Dead
Generals Which Shall Remain
Nameless.

Reactions here have been strong.
Some have said that the hazing
described in that article is repug-
nant, barbaric, and simply wrong.
Others have responded with an elo-
quent, “Yeah, so?” I

I think hazing, especially the
things described in that article, is
disgusting. It has no place in the
civilized and otherwise gentile so-
ciety of Washington and Lee. I
also think that fraternities and so-
rorities are a vital part of life at
Washington and Lee that should
be perpetuated. I do not think
these two points of view are mutu-

’ allyiexclusive.

Becoming a brother or sister in
a fraternity should mean some-
thing to pledges. Our new
pledgeship should not become a
mere formality. Pledges should
know what a particular fraternity
stands for, or else it’s just a group
of guys who give out plastic cups.
It’s not unreasonable to expect that
pledges recognize more of the
Greek alphabet than the letters of

their particular house. Basically,
if all you had to do to consider
yourself a brother in a fraternity
was to hang out at the house and go
to a few parties, then call me a
brother. On the other hand, I don’t
think anyone who forced me to
wear vomit soaked clothes or to
partake of an armpit snack is any-
one 1 would want to call my brother.
Surely there is a middle ground.

Compromise will not be easy.
A suggestion I had heard was for
pledge trainers to call up the IFC or
Dean Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins to
get potential pledge activities ap-
proved. Can you imagine it?

Fraternity Guy: Dean Atkins,
we were planning on getting our
pledges real drunk and tying them
naked to trees next Saturday. What
do you think?

Buddy: Hmmm... I’m going
to have to say no to that right away.
I know for a fact there’s an SAB-
sponsored concert at the pavilion
on Saturday. Maybe you should
take your pledges there instead.

Fraternity Guy #2: Our

"house is planning one of its most

treasured pledgeship activities for
next Friday night. lt’s the one
where we line up all the pledges
and kick them in the face. Y’know,
the annual Face Kicking. Would
that be okay? We’ve already made
sure the pledges don’t have too
much studying to do that night,
and there are no alternative gather-
ings in the Pit either. Also, in light
of our sensitivity to the new hazing

policy, we’ve asked the brothers
not to weal’ their boots this year.
Buddy: I’m afraid I can’t ap-
prove that program as it stands, but
I can think of a good compromise.
If you have an equal number of
brothers getting kicked in the face,
then it’s not hazing. Then y’all are

“The next
chapter meet-
ing is the one

where all of the

brothers are
asked to

voulenteer to

be kicked in
the face. ”

just stupid.

Imagine"'whe're‘“this scenario ' "

would lead. The next chapter meet-
ing is the one where all of the
brothers are asked to volunteer to
be kicked in the face. Suspecting
that a few people might choose to
skip that particular meeting, the
president imposes a $500 fine for
anyone not attending. Other broth-
ers are reported to say, “Who cares?
I’m just going to charge it home
anyway.”

I do think that pledges need to

have some kind of common expe-
riences to be a cohesive unit. And
men might not respond to the kind
of bonding experiences in soror-
ity pledgeship... like your big sis-
ter maliciously breaking into your
room, filling it with crepe paper,
and giving you candy and cook-
ies. I really don’t think it will be
so hard for guys to figure out
what’s okay and what’s not if you
follow one rule of thumb: Would
you want your mom to know you
are doing this?

Would your mom be upset if
you knew the Greek alphabet re-
ally well? No, she’d find some
way to be proud of you for it.
Would your mom be traumatized
if she saw you asking a younger
student to get you a beer? If she
did, she’d get over it. Would
your mom be worried if you had
to clean a house after a party?
She’d probably just ask why you
don’t do that at home. And would
mom mind if you and a bunch of
your friends went to Hollins for

*the night? Nalv... boys will be

boys. "

But would it be okay with mom
to see you getting branded? To
see you chugging Mad Dog and
raw eggs? To see you beating
another guy with a paddle? Un-
less your childhood was radically
different than mine, I’d bet not.

So, you see, hazing isn’t such
a complicated issue after all. Be
decent, be safe, and do.-1’t forget
about your mom.

Clinton’s victory is a victory for America

From the Left
Laura Knapp ’99

It has been well over a week since President
Bill Clinton scored an amazing, decisive, but
totally anticipated victory over Bob Dole. But
because it has been a week, my gloating has
subsided quite a bit. Had I written this a week
ago, the column for the most part would be
filled with comments like “Nyah nyah nyah
nyah! We won, and you lost! Told you so! So
there!” But within the space of seven days, I
developed a new sense of maturity and am now
able to discuss the outcome of the election with
minimal boasting and bragging.

In all honesty though, I am breathing a sigh
of relief for the United States, for world civili-
zation, as well as for humanity itself rather than
brimming with arrogance over Clinton’s vic-
tory. The United States is virtually ensured of
entering the twenty-first century on stable foot-
ing, of course not taking in account a double
assassination of both Clinton and Gore where
in which the Speaker of the House would
become President (a fact that was recently

brought to my attention which I consider just
crazy on the part of the Founding Fathers. But
to their credit, they did not know about Newt
Gingrich when they were drawing up the Con-..
stitution; for had they known him, I am sure
that they would have thought twice about in-
cluding such a provision! Could you even
imagine Gingrich as president? I myself would
take the bullet and endanger my life for Clinton
or Gore in order to prevent such an occur-
rence.) I shudder with fear when I consider the
effects of a Dole presidency would have on the
present and future of our nation. His 15% tax
cut-although assumed to be politically popular
equated to financial irresponsibility-would have
propelled the United States into a huge finan-
cial crisis as well as exacerbate the problem of
the burgeoning budget deﬁcit even more.
There are just a plethora of reasons why
Americans—Dem0crats and Republicans
alike—should be relieved that Bill Clinton
won. We have been promised a moderate and
thoughtful administration. Improvements for
public education, the environment, race rela-
tions, Afﬁrrnative Action programs, welfare
and general tolerance will all be realized over
the next four years. I could not write such a

Quote of the Week:

“W&L not only teaches
us to be alcoholics, it
teaches us to be func-

tioning alcoholics”

- anonymous sophomore discussing his weekends

thing had Bob Dole won.

What I believe to be the most comforting
about a Clinton presidency is that he actually
cares about what the American people really
want. He is not subservient to special interests,
military complexes or a professed Washington
insider as was Bob Dole. The triumph of
Clinton in this election symbolizes the fact that
a president can be independent of such forces
that have at times dominated the presidential
arena. It is a remarkable trend that I hope
continues. It is obvious from the results of the
election——a Democratic executive and Repub-
lican legislature—that Americans are showing
that they are indeed moving towards the center
of the political spectrum; they have had enough
of extremism. The fact that Bill Clinton has
made an effort to include Republicans on his
cabinet indicates both a sense of maturity on
his part as well as a realization that Americans
are not either Democrat or Republican. What
is right for the nation is no longer-if it ever was-
dependent on party distinction. Clinton em-
bodies tolerance, moderation and what is right
forthe nation. Ifyou don’tbelieve it, I’ll let you
quarrel with the 2.5 million people that voted
for him.

 

xi/r“

 

 

W&1ife

PAGE 3

NOVEMBER 15, 1996

Southern

BY DAVID BALSLEY
PHI FEATURES EDrroR

Having been dead for nearly thirty
years, Southern Collegian will soon walk
the hallowed grounds of Washington and
Lee University once again.

Notoriously raunchy in its later years,
Southern Collegian disappeared from
Washington and Lee’s
campus in the late

Co

commented Resmer. “We don’t want to
speak to any individual people. We want
to provide a forum for independent
voices.”

To this end, Southern Collegian will
include representatives of various politi-
cal viewpoints on its staff. Also, the
magazine will welcome all opinions, with
the exception of the opinions of the ex-
treme right.

a literary journal as well,” commented
Resmer. “We’re hoping that Southern
Collegian will evolve into something
that’s a combination of the three.”

In addition to political articles, each
issue of Southern Collegian will include
three or four poems, as well as a short
story.

“We want to be more general,”
Christensen stated. “We welcome any-

egiern ehekee off the eluet

to Spectator,” Resmer commented. “We
‘don’t want to be so serious.”

“We just want to have fun,” she added.
“We want our stories and articles to be
provocative and interesting.”

Southern Collegian is an independent
publication. The magazine will fund
itself through advertising, donations, and
subscriptions, but it will receive no fund-
ing from the Executive Committee.

Christensen and Resmer

1960’s. It has been
resurrected this year by
Alex Christensen and

are hopeful about the
magazine’s future; last
week's organizational meet-

Cathy Resmer, who
feel that Southern Cal-
legian will provide a greater arena for the
discussion of political topics at W&L.

“We felt that the campus needed a
place for intellectual debates that wasn’t
stupid,” Christensen commented.

Southern Collegian will address po-
litical issues from nearly every perspec-
tive. ~

“I don’t think this magazine should be
merely a reﬂection of our political views,”

GHQ WELCOMES ROCKIN’

“Southern Collegian will represent
everything but the fringe right because
we feel thatis already being represented,”
Christensen stated.

True to its original format, the recent
re-incamation of Southern Collegian will
extend itself beyond politics to include
ﬁction, poetry, and humor.

“We have basically three goals: to be
a political forum, a humor magazine, and

  
 
 
 
 

SOUTHERN COLLEGIAN

one who can write well.”

“W&L already has Ariel and Specta-
tor, but we really wanted the pieces in our
magazine to be by people who don’t
normally have their work printed,”
Resmer stated.

Resmer hopes to make Southern Col-
legian as humorous and interesting as
possible.

“The Traveller was a serious answer

ALU M

ing for Southern Collegian
was well attended.

Students interested in writing or draw-
ing for Southern Collegian are encour-
aged to either contact Christenson or
Resmer or to attend next week’s
storyboard meeting which will be held at
7 p.m. on Wednesday, November 20 in
Payne 26.

“If you feel passionate about some-
thing, then write about it and submit it to
us,” Resmer stated.

W&L Music

 

BYANDREAEWING ence for to the audi- .
PHI ASSISTANT F a n c y ' ence and 
FEATURES EDrroR D r e s s makes jokes.
W e e k Day will play BY BrLL OVERBAUGH

Need something to do I a s t cover songs PHI STAFF WRITER
this Friday before heading March, .1 and add
out to all those fraternity and for 5, f u n n y _ _ _
parties, or do you just want Alu mni '' a n d F"e“dS’L°xf"gt°"'_a"S’°am‘
to sit back and enjoy some 1996 he original pus persons’ “"5 commg Tues‘

really kickin’ tunes?
The Fridays! Committee

   
 

thrilled the
crowd gath-

alter-
ations.

day, November 19, marks the
date of a musical recital in Wash-

   
  

 
 
   
     
   
   

ered in the
Gaines Quad.
J u n i o r

offers the music of Roger
Day to break the boredom
or to get the energy level

extra high. Day will per- Milagros‘ Daly ing.”

form in the Gaines raved, “He plays a Day plays hours‘ _
Gatehouse on Friday night lot of original songs acousticguitar About fourteen Washmgm"
at 9:00 p.m. which vary from I  andsingsorigi— and Lee Students’ from fresh"

children’s to ballads to
adult contemporary. He
has great crowd appeal

The admission is free and
that means that if you want to
take that girl or guy out for a
really great time and are a little
short on cash, this is the perfect
opportunity.

The “acoustic alum”
graduated from Washington
and Lee in 1985. Day
played at Washington and
Lee many times in the past.
He graced the Lambda Chi
Alpha house with his pres-

great.”

house.

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
    
   

and he plays cool covers.
If I did not have to work I
would be there. Roger Day is

Junior Joshua Heslinga attended
the performance at the Lambda Chi-

He stated, ”Day's music is fun and happy,
and it is really good to sit, relax, and enjoy. He
loves playing at Washington and Lee, and talks

Roads”

All you have to do is show up.
Publicity Photo

SCA Covoris in hcavg armor

BY ANDREA EwrNo
Pm AssrsTANr FEATURES EDrroR

“My Lord, what may I do to service you?” This statement
is not often heard, but if you were to attend an event sponsored
by the Society of Creative Anachronisms, this would not seem
so strange and maybe even commonplace. The SCA was begun
by a group of students attending the University of California,
Berkley, in the 1960’s. Members attempt to “recreate the best
of the Middle Ages” says Scott Silvers, President of the SCA
here at Washington and Lee.

The group has a 2 year history here at W&L with 10-15
active members. The group holds meetings every Monday
night at 8:30 in room 113 of the University Center. The group
sponsors activities like the movie night held 2 weeks ago. A
dance practice will be held Tuesday night in the game room of
the University Center. The dances of the Middle Ages are
relatively easy and quick to learn. Anyone who is interested
may contact Scott Silvers for more information or come to the
meeting this Monday.

One of the main activities of the group is recreation of
medieval ﬁghting.

$5000 First Prize!

Develop an innovative web applica-
tion help complanies in Virginia ex-
ploit the benefits from the new
Internet Economy. Win cash prizes
from $1000 to $5000.

For details, including contest rules

Silvers commented, “The SCA is your chance to live out
that fantasy of being a knight in shining armour. Our battles
are non-choreographed, and in the larger battles there can be
several thousand ﬁghters on the ﬁeld.”

Scott became involved in the SCA his freshman year. “I
was a fencer and I heard about the SCA and thought that
sounds cool. There was no one to fence with so I started
heavy ﬁghting.” Silvers authorized to fight in events in 1995
and since then has taken part in baronial as well as kingdom
level ﬁghting. Women also are able to take part in heavy
ﬁghting, and are encouraged to do so. A crown tourney is held
every six months in which ﬁghters battle for the crown. The
king is the winner of the tourney and can be either male or
female.

Silvers believes that everyone would ﬁnd something ap-
pealing about the SCA. “There is more than just fighting in the
SCA. We dance, we sing, and have artisans who make all
kinds of crafts (i.e. brewing, woodworking, sewing, and
armouring). “ A person can create a new persona and become
whatever they want. It is really up to them. Silvers invites
anyone to come and learn what a cloven fruit is and the
wondrous joys it evokes. ’

He is ex-
t r e m e l y
entertain-

nal as well as
cover songs.
His songs range
from “Country
to

“Stand.” Anyone
who is in the
mood to have a
. iv: great-time bringalong-vi
“vsome friends and come
support one of W&L’s own.

Individuals, Student
Organizations and
Small Groups to pro-
mote 1997 Spring
Break Tavel Packages.
Earn substantial
MONEY and FREE

Call INTER-CAMPUS

(800) 327-6013

ington and Lee University’s
Lenfest Center. The recital will
begin at 8:00 p.m. and should
last one to one and one half

men through seniors, will
present pieces which they have
been working on with their pro-
fessors for the past eight weeks.

The voice students will per-
form show tunes, well-known
jazzy standards, and beautiful
classical pieces, as well as
,popu_larcontempor,arysongs in _

‘Latin, German, and English... I
Your peers will also play piano,
cello, bass, and violin, among
others.

This fun-ﬁlled evening will
make a fabulous study break
and a terriﬁc chance to experi-
ence some of the musical talent
which makes up Washington
and Lee.

Photo courtesy of Scott Silvers

John Jordan, ’95 Law

Wanted!!!

TRIPS

PROGRAMS

papyrus: n., pl. —pyn' 1. a
tall, aquatic cyperaceous
pland, Cyperus Papyrus, of

 

Luhrmann, Shakespeare
meet /vapp//1//'/7 /?&/

BY ALEX CHRISTENSEN
Pm MovrE CRmc

~A'3‘nh‘r of 4 stars;
better than bad, It‘s good

The pitch:
“lt'll be like Pulp Fiction
meets Romeo and Juliet. ”

I was quite cautious in making the Pulp Fiction reference in
my pitch (above). The purpose of my “pitch” is to give you an
idea what the ﬁlm is like, or what the makers might have
thought it was like. Too many ﬁlms have been compared toPulp
Fiaion recently, but I think that in this case it is warranted. Both
tell complex stories, both use violence and witty dialogue to
maximum effect, and both are jarring both in style and in content.

Romeo and Juliet has had many incarnations. I still have
part of the balcony scene memorized from high school English
class. And I’ve seen the 1968 Fraco Zefferelli version where
you see Olivia Hussey’s bosoms and Leonard Whiting stand-
ing naked in the window. I’ve missed, however, most of the
other versions, including some silent ones, clunky early ones

with old actors, the ballet, and some freer adaptations like West
Side Story and others.

William Shakespeare ’s Romeo andJuliet is a ﬁne film. For
those of you who have not seen Strictly Ballroom, Australian
director Baz Luhrmann’s wonderful comic romance about
professional ballroom dancing, it may be a bit jarring to
experience a Baz Luhrmann ﬁlm-——so many hits of R+J played
for their comic effect, the elder characters treated like buffoons
who don’t “get it,” and the constant blare of “cool” music. It is
jarring, and it is meant to be so. Luhrmann’s ﬁlm work, so far at
least, has been about youth, and how in its optimism, energy, and
inexperience, it is so ultimately human and real. That’s why he’s
perfect for this modern adaptation of William Shakespeare’s play.

Luhrmann also understands what the point of an updating
of a classic work is. Of course, it’s a completely different
approach, than, say, Kenneth Branagh takes when adapting
such works as Henry V or Hamlet. The point is not to honor
every intention of the author, but to reveal new things both
about the work and about the time we live in. So Shakespeare
purists may not like this ﬁlm. However, what Luhrmann does
is truly a work of genius.

Luhrmann sets R+J in a mythical Florida town called
Verona Beach. This town is completely created artistically by
the ﬁlmmakers—you can’t visit it. It was ﬁlmed in Mexico
City and in locations around Veracruz, Mexico, but the way it is
handled, it becomesa real place to the audience. Towering over the
city are a blocky stone Virgin Mary at the Chapel Monument and
two great skyscrapers, marked “Montague” and “Capulet.”

The young members of each faction carry guns emblazoned
with family crests and duel openly in the streets. The story
unfolds quickly, wittily, and touchingly, not weighed down,

I -but rather wonderfully-revealedgby theElizabethan dialogue of

the characters. Yes, the text has been cut, some have said too
much, but I felt that the ﬁlm worked. lcould, I suppose, go back
and get my copy of the play and bring it in and mark all the cuts,
but that would hardly tell me anything about whether it worked.
I think it did, quite well.

Another thing that Luhrmann has done in his handlingof the
story and the language is to exploit new meanings of old words
to great effect. In doing so, he rather disarmingly takes
advantage of the great mystery of language, which almost
never takes away or assigns a new meaning to a word without
enriching rather than empoverishing its power.

Speciﬁcally, in a device which works quite well, Luhrmann
changes Mercutio, Romeo’s best friend, into a black, dreadlocked
youth who dresses in drag, uses drugs with Romeo, and is ultimately
the catalyst for the second half of the story. Jolm McEnery did a
superb, haunting job with the “conventional” Mercutio in Franco
Zeﬁ”ere1li’s version, so I was both dreading and looking forward to
Harold Perrineau ’s (of S make) take on him in this version. He went
far beyond my expectations and alleviated all my fears. Penineau is
altemately grave and insanely blissful in what is ultimately a very
enlightening deconstruction of the character, which takes place
without relieving him of any of his deep reality.

Other notable performances are the two leads, Claire Danes (of
ABC’s much-missed “My So-Called Life”), who will oneday rule
the world and Leonardo DiCaprio, Oscar nominee for What’s
Eating Giﬂyert Grape? They both perform well, though DiCaprio
seems just slightly, very slightly perhaps, out of his depth. Still,
whatever he lacks is more than made up for by the grand vision of
Luhrmann and his co-screenwriter Craig Pearce.

the Nile Valley. 2. a material

Leyburn Library

Thanksgiving Break Hours

1996

Friday. November 22
Close at 6:00 p.m.

Saturday. November 23
Open 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.

Sunday, November 23
Closed

Monday - Wednesday, November 25-27

Open 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.

      
     

 

on which to write, prepared

from thin strips of the pith of
this plant laid together,

soaked, pressed and dried,

used by the ancient Egyp-

tians, Greeks and Romans.
3. an ancient document,

manuscript, or scroll written

on this material.

and entry forms, see our web site at

http:/ / www.cit.org/ and click on the
WWW Business Innovations

Contest icon.

Thusday - Friday, November 28-29
Closed

Saturday. December 1
Open at 12:00 noon and
resume 24-hour secudule

 

 

E.C., I.F.C. speak
out against hazing

Dear W&L Community,

Taylor Crothers might have
done his alma mater a favor when
he published those pictures in The
New York Times Magazine. To
be sure, the article and pictures
cast a dark shadow on our Univer-
sity. However, if we are smart,
we’ll use this dubious publicity to
our advantage. The advent of these
pictures only speaks louder to stu-
dents in telling them that the
University’s commitment to end-
ing hazing is ﬁrm.

President Elrod set the ball roll-
ing last January when he invited
the fifteen fraternity Presidents to
Lee House to ask for an end to
hazing. Then, the Board of Trust-
ees charged last year’s Student
Body President, Keith Benedict,
and Dean Atkins to author a hazing
policy. This fall, the Student Af-
fairs Committee (SAC), composed
of six students, four professors and
two deans, set out to fine-tune an
already aggressive policy that was
begun last year. The student mem-
bers who sit on SAC include the
Student Bar Association President,
Student Body President, IFC Presi-
dent, Panhellenic President, SCC
President and Head Dorm Coun-
selor. These elected officers from
all walks of W&L student life col-

laborated with members of the fac-_

ulty and administration and ap-
proved the University Policy on
Hazing which, for the first time,
makes individuals accountable for
hazing violations. By punishing
an entire fraternity for hazing, one
also punishes the pledges (the very
group this policy aims to protect).
Such punishment has proven a fail-
ure in the past.

It should be clear, then, that the
University has been at work shap-
ing this vigorous hazing policy long
before these pictures were pub-
lished. The Times piece might
well preempt any example-mak-
ing by a hazing judicial board, and
it might heat off pointless injury

resulting from hazing. What this I

article will not do is heighten or
reduce the seriousness of this
policy.

Among other things, this ag-
gressive policy allows for a judi-
cial board composed of five SAC
student members and a non-voting
faculty advisor to hear cases where
sufficient evidence of hazing has
been found after an investigation.
Clearly, SAC is giving student self-

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi,

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

governance a chance to work by
trusting students to solve what
amounts to be a problem for the
whole university. There has never
been an official student committee
whose sole purpose is to try indi-
viduals for hazing. In other words,
students have not yet proven that
they cannot hand down properpun-
ishment for students guilty of haz-
ing.

Hazing has become an anachro-
nism on the large majority of col-
lege campuses today. Even at a
school that holds history soidear,
most would agree that it is time for
our tradition of hazing at Wash-
ington and Lee to die. The large
majority of students are ready and
willing to make hazing a memory.
For those students who still wish to
haze, a clear message has been sent
from the faculty, administration
and fellow students through the
Student Affairs Committee: there
will be an aggressive University
policy on hazing, and it will be
enforced. It is our hope that the
faculty pass the SAC policy as it
stands.

Sincerely,
Sandy Hooper
Student Body President

Anthony Mazzarelli
Interfraternity Council President

Student offended
by statement
made on WLUR

Dear Editor and Fellowstudentsz

I am‘w‘riting, in all seriousness,
because I have been offended by
something I heard on our campus
radio station.

On Wednesday morning, at
about 7:45, I was listening to
WLUR. The two DJ ’s were talk-
ing about a movie, and one of them
mentioned that one of the actors
“looked like some total faggot
boy.” I’m sure that this was a
casual comment and was not meant

as an insult. Even so, I was of-
fended. Let me tell you why.

The word “faggot,” used in that
context, is akin to the word
“nigger.” Think about what would
happen if the student had made a
similar comment, using instead the
inﬂammatory N-word. Virtually
everyone at W&L would be of-
fended. The station, and the stu-
dent involved, would publicly
apologize. As it is, however, the
use of the word “faggot” at W&L

does not elicit a similar public re-
sponse. This does not mean that
the word is any less offensive to
members of this community; it sim-
ply means that few people here
have the courage to admit that such
language is profane and unneces-
sary.

The most disturbing thing about
the incident is that the student did
not apologize when I called the
station to make her aware of what
she had said, and how it had af-
fected me. She did not apologize
on the phone, nor did she mention
the call on the air in the half hour
that I listened to the show. I realize
that it was early, and that she was
probably shocked that someone
would call about a seemingly in-
significant remark, but that does
not excuse her behavior. Students
who volunteer for radio shows
should be held to the same stan-
dards of decency as are the stu-
dents who write for university pub-
lications.

The militantly anti-gay staff of
the Spectator would not allow the
word “faggot” in their publication.
Even Glenn Miller, on his back
page Trident columns, hadn’t used
the word, though I must admit he’s
been very creative (if often unsuc-
cessfully so) at coming up with
other ways to slam G&L. Clearly
this word is offensive if even the
most homophobic students at W&L
would not stoop to use it.

Please do not misunderstand my
intentions. I’m not writing to fur-
ther a leftist agenda, nor am I call-
ing for the student DJ to be pun-
ished. I think she should continue
her show, provided that she apolo-
gize for her careless mistake. I
wrote this letter because I think
that too often at this school such
behavior goes unchecked. We
pride ourselves in providing a
unique atmosphere of friendliness
and civility at W&L. Why, then,
are we so reluctant to recognize
actions which are antithetical to
those principles? We should all be
offended when such actions occur.

Sincerely,
Catherine C. Resmer

Hazing need not
be part of pledge
experience

Dear W&L Students:

The New York Times Maga-
zine piece on hazing has brought to
the surface an unpleasant fact about
our special community. Hazing is

a fact within our fraternity system
and within some of the secret soci-
eties as well.

I was first presented with hard
evidence last December and Janu-
ary when I received a number of
anonymous communications from
freshmen and parents of freshmen
alleging hazing in fraternity pledge
programs. The agreement within
these communications (letters, tele-
phone calls and one personal visit)
in the description of hazing activi-
ties testified to their veracity and
provided the basis for my convic-
tion that this problem is severe and
in need of correction.

I immediately reported my ﬁnd-
ings to the Board of Trustees at its

1996 winter meeting in Lexington '

and received its strong endorse-
ment of my request that the Ofﬁce
of the Dean of Students address
this problem by revising our haz-
ing policy and implementing steps
to prevent its re-occurrence in the
1997 rush/pledge period and there-
after.

Deans Howison and Atkins have
worked closely with the IFC, the
EC, fraternity officers and the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee to create
and implement a preventive pro-
gram this winter. They have also
established new procedures for in-
vestigating allegations of hazing
and new penalties for those found
guilty of it. The faculty will vote
on the new University Policy on
hazing at its December 2nd meet-
ing.

There has been considerable
conversation these last ten days
about hazing at Washington and
Lee. Discussion in classes, faculty
ofﬁces, fraternity houses, the fresh-
men donns, all over our campus,
and I am glad that it is so. Most, but
not all, of these conversation have
reflected an appalling regard for
these activities and a concern that
they be eradicated. Most students
have been embarrassed for their
University by the debased picture
of fraternity life displayed in the C.
Taylor Clothiers’ photographs.

My deep hope is that there ex-
ists a rising determination on your
part that hazing must be ended at
your University and that you and
your leaders in the EC, the IF C and
the fraternity chapters will simply
say “No More!” It will take a deep
and lasting resolve on your part to
bring an end to hazing and courage
too, for not all of you agree that it
is wrong and should be ended. So
for those of you who are willing to
make the effort to raise the spiri-
tual level of Washington and Lee
by bringing an end to this debased

activity, I can only promise you
my full and complete support. I
will do all that I can to assist you,
but you must know that the admin-
istration and the faculty and the
trustees and the alumni and the
press cannot end this practice alone.

What can you do? The IFC is
designing a challenging and posi-
tive pledge program which all fra-
ternities are to follow. Each chap-
ter on this campus can pledge that
it will conduct its own pledge pro-
gram according to the IFC guide-
lines. Chapter presidents and
pledge trainers can vow that haz-
ing will not occur in their chapters
and can closely monitor the pledg-
ing activities of their new classes.
Sophomores can resist the long-
standing principle that “It was done
to me, and I am going to do it to
them.” Juniors and seniors can
exercise the authority which falls
to them as upperclassmen to insist
that IFC guidelines be followed
and can use their inﬂuence to dis-
suade individuals who are inclined
to haze. Pledges can collectively
and individually resist hazing if
their fraternities engage in it, re-
membering as you must that it is
wrong. And pledges and brothers
alike can take the courageous step
of informing the Dean of Students
Office if hazing activities occur.
And every student on this campus
can and should bear in mind that
hazing is inconsistent with both
the values of honor and civility
that define Washington and Lee
University.

You should know that I am a
Sigma Nu. I spent three wonderful
years in the Zeta Theta Chapter of
this fraternity at Presbyterian Col-
lege. I was not hazed; and I am
certain that my bonding experi-
ence with my fellow pledges and
brothers was as strong as it could
be. I had a wonderful opportunity
to serve as faculty advisor to the
Sigma Nu Chapter here. So I am
perfectly well aware of the rich
potential of fraternities to create
lasting friendships, to provide
ample and meaningful opportuni-
ties for leadership development, to
amplify occasions for service to
the University and the community
and to provide a place for an active
social life. Fraternities have a long
and historic place in the life of this
institution. No one whom I know
of wants to bring an end to this
long and historic association be-
tween national fraternities and
Washington and Lee University.

I write this letter to inform you
of my very deep concern about
hazing at our University. I worry

NOVEMBER 15, 1996

that it is eroding the integrity of
Washington and Lee and that it

will damage the reputation of this L

fine university as well. I want you
to know that the Trustees, the fac-

ulty and the administration are op- A ; .
posed to this activity and will do '
whatever we can to bring this prac- .
ticetoan end. Iask that youjoin us '
as partners in this endeavor. I 2

cannot help believe that if you re-

flect upon the ideals of honor and ‘
civility that constitute the moral,

cornerstones of Washington and

Lee University, you will insist that I
this practice come to an end and;

will see that it does so.

Sincerely,
John W. Elrod
President

Director of Tucker
Multimedia Center"
extends thanks

Dear Washington and Lee
Community,

I write you this note ofthanks:
after having worked with so
many of you in organizing and.

setting into motion the recent
conference—-Ingenious Meth-
odologiesthrough Technology-
-held on our campus the week-
end of OCtober 18, 1996, and
funded by the Charles E.
Culpepper Foundation. _

From start to finish, your
continuous supoprt has proven
itself fruitful as the letters and
notes of thanks and congratu-
lations continue to be received.
There are too many of you to
mention individually in the
space allotted me here, but rest
assured that the conference's
success can be only attributed
to genuine team effort and ac-
ceptance of responsibility.

As Director of the Tucker
Multimedia Center, it is nice to
say proudly that Washington
and Lee University continues
to hold a grand place in the
domain of language teaching
technologies. But it is all of
you who have helped to put us
there for which I personally
thank you!

Most sincerely,
Paul R. (Dick) Kuettner
Correction

A picture on page 8 was mis-iden- I

tiﬁed in the November 8, 1996 issue
of The Ring-tum Phi. The subject of

the photo was identiﬁed as Sam Chase. '

The person in the photo was Colin
Connolly.

  

GONE
WITH THE

WINDOWS

    
 

BUSINESS. from pg. 1
Hopewell, Va. is $30,” he said. “I
saved my allowance for three weeks
until I had enough money to buy it.”

After obtaining a business license,
Story set up shop and began to estab-
lish T-Tech.

Story is big on personalized ser-
vice. He brings it right to his custom-
ers doors. “The ﬁrst shop I had was‘
tiny, and now that I am at school, I
don’t have room for people to bring

A their stuff to me,” he said, “so I started

going to them.”

Story’s services are a little more
expensive than many other computer
support operations, but he feels that
his customers receive the complete

/ ' . .~

\t  V.
12-10, . . . "— ' .
ow» °*z%*ar.i:':.r.°:r:°M=s'~ :Af1  ~

    
      

...M‘/ svsrem HAS
(nnsneo, m-ue1T/

you have an extreme negative cost,
and after that, it gets smaller and
smaller, until you can turn a proﬁt.”
Story chose to come to Washing-
ton and Lee in large part to the attor-
ney who helped him start his business.
Story has only taken two computer
courses in his entire life. He attributes
his computer knowledge to experi-
mentation, “taking them apart and

 
 

 
  

putting them back together again.”

Bittner is also a self taught his skill
with wreaths and swags. “I love Christ-
mas stuff, and it is just something I
picked up,” he said.

Bittner has also had inquiries for
his products from his peers. He sells
his art for $25 to $75. Bittner’s
hallmate recently ordered a Christmas
gift for her parents, a wreath decorated

POVERTY, from pg. 1

encourage us to apply for the grant,
yet that doesn’t mean that they will
give it to us,” he said.

According to the executive sum-
mary written on the program, it will
“nourish a sense of civic duty and self
sacriﬁce in behalf of our fellow citi-
zens through lessons and experience.”

W&L students already work with
Habitat for Humanity, Alpha Phi
Omega and some even travel to Nica-
ragua for a service project during
spring break. Students will be en-
couraged in the class to participate in

with gold angels, for $35.
“It’saBittner Original,” exclaimed
Sophomore Rachel Goddu, a pleased

customer who felt her purchase is ‘I’

worth every cent.

Both Bittner and Story are earning Q
money doing what they want to do. "_
For these two students, it beats the '

grind at Harbs or Spanky’s— better
hours, better pay, and more fun.

Jock Shorts

Teammate Will Olson just

similar volunteer activities and to ex-
amine how poverty affects their lives
and their environment.

“One of our goals is to help stu-
dents redeﬁne their vocation as jour-
nalists, as lawyers, as doctors or any

other vocation and how they go about ,2

performing their job,” said Beckley.
“This course will make students better
informed and more sensitive to pov-
erty in the United States and the Third
World.”

Try our Spicy Italian sandwich——

W Cross Country

The Washington and Lee cross
country teams ﬁnished their sea-
sons with strong showings at the
NCAA Division III South regionals.

The men’s cross country squad
ﬁnished ﬁfth out of 17 teams at
regionals, only twenty points away
from third place.

Junior Jason Callen led the way
for’W&L, placing eighth in 26:43
and winning all-region honors.

Pepperoni & Genoa Salami with your choice of
- veggies and toppings on fresh baked bread.

package. Included with a purchase of
aT-Tech computeris6 hoursofStory’s
time any way the purchaser wishes to
use it.

“If you buy a printer,” he said “it
comes with the paper.”

Last year Story grossed $30,000. It
sounds like a lot, but after taking out
expenses and such, his net was nega-
tive_ Messmore came in 26th in 20:43 while

an takes a few years to Stabilize a Dorofeeva latched onto 29thin 20:48.

buSiness,i”'iStory said. “The ﬁrst year __ _.

missed all-region honors with his
16th-place ﬁnish in 27:06, which
was only a half-second away from
the all-region award.

Sophomore Steve Guenther
crossed the line in 30th with a time
of 28:07 for the Generals.

The women’s team improved
their ﬁnish at regionals by two places
from last year by coming in sixth
out of 13 teams.

Junior Carson Flowers crossed

 

 

the line ﬁrst for the Generals, placing
17th overall in 20:17, which was six
seconds away from all-region honors.
Senior Nat Messmore and sopho- _
more Natasha Dorofeeva both placed
in the top-30 for the Generals.

 

453 E. Nelson Street
Lexington VA
4 6 3 ' 3 3 2 2 © 1996 Doctors Associates Inc. ‘

*1‘?
‘‘‘‘~«..,,,_.,. ,.~./

 

,.

ii Presidei1t’s Zhozce

Soft
Drinks

Snacks

 
   

BBQ or Hot 8: Spicy
Buffalo Style
Wings  ..

 

16 Inch
Italiap Combo
Plzza

 

Sale Begins Wednesday, November 6, 1996
Diet Coke or

 

.\  “"

Ralston

99 Turkey

10 Oz. Selected

Harms Teeter

Pretze

 

Selected Varieties
' Chex Cereal

Sandwich rtrtrlrodize

   

 

\ Q

eties

 

7 Oz. Puffed or Crunchy

Cheese
Dooes

4 Lb. Bag

Florida Oranges

  

8 Piece
Fried
Chicken

99

Each

 

   

  

3:‘; 5 ct 
Se1ectedVari
Mufis

     
 

Prices and Offers Good Wednesday, November 6 Thlough Tuesday, November 12, 1996

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers

At Your Athens Harris Teeter.

EVERYONE WILLGIVE YOU
THEIR TWO CENTS WORTH, BUT WILL
THAT BE ENOUGH TO RETIRE ON?

’ I loclziy there": seems to be am invastnient
expert or financial activism" a.§1nns.u' e.-.vt:r_y-
where you turn. But. just haw qnalilietl are ail

lth est: experts 1’

wiriahlo annuiiy .=ic‘s.'uun:s. And we're nonproiil,
so our cxpcxise (.‘l1ilX’g¢’9§ are among the lowest in
the insurance and mutual fuiid industries?‘ Tluu
rneam. more oryuur xnumsy is where it should
Peace of mind about your future: comes from he  worldng for __w_wu. .

soiicl planning. From invc-s1xm‘:nt.< aml sc.rviccs 'l‘I;’u\~(.1lU~.“.[*‘ is now the lzirgust private pemsion
designed. am} {nI(11c‘3gt)(.i with your needs and
retirement seer}:-Ely spccif1<:ally.in mind. The l<in<.l
oil investmenls and sm"vicos 'I.‘I.'\A~C Rl.$’.l"' has
been providing for more than 75_years.

\rVE’I..[. HF..LP VOL? BUII..l)
A RIBVVRRDINEG RETIREMENT.

Our counselors are traimrd rctirmncni pmFcs-

sysrcm in the world. based on assets um‘l«=:r 1nam~
agemcnt  managing more than $ L30 billion in
assets for more lli.‘-1.11 one and ex half million people
t.l1I‘oughout the nat-ion.

TIAA-CREE:
THE CHOICE Tl-IAT  SENSE.

lt's rough to wade through all the "advice" to fund

a reliable pension plan pm\'ir.lcr. But as a member

sionals who have: only you and _vt)'.n* iiunire in
mind. So _y0u’r'~: lxmtted as the unique person
you are, with special m.-eds and concerns abom ofthe edumtion illltl research community, your
hos: cl-mice. is simple: 'I‘lAA~CRl€I". Because wluan
it ccnncs to helping you prepare for re.-t'iw.~mem.. our

retirement. And that makes For an undersLm1(.l-
ing. comi’ox1*al1le r<?l£Ll’i(!ns:’1ip.

\Vn’l1 Tl.1L'\~CRl.'-ll", you inn-'0 pl¢:m_v ofc*i1L>i(;c
and |'lc-xihility in buildingyrxiir rctim~mcnt need"
egg —- from Tlz’\}\'s g1.v:ir;mt¢-.e<l lraclitiurial ariruxity
to the investment 0p}')nI“l’unilit.'.'§ of C-l{l;'I‘”s seven

annuities will add up to mom than spare change.
For nmre information about how 'l'lAA-CRl.".F

can help you prepare for the 17uture. call our

linmlluucnt ["ln¢.linc in l 800 842-2888.

0/?” Trartézrv Iwamuu am’ Annuity Aw-.404/ian.*'(.‘.-I/qr Rcztrvamu Eqailfw Fun). 53:} Tbs;-J dvrnur, A?-~ Yew}. NY

    

8
C
Ensurmg the future
.
for those who shape it.“
N ’ SI-.md;ml F51 Paar‘; insurgsn» 1:;-<‘Ii'o(!$¢‘!<‘5'<!-'. IA’. L‘ ¢2"D:ls.'\‘Xux5« ‘\1IAi§‘li<'hl Una. I79“? _IQ;;.:rI.m’yl
'\ ' l.I—t‘RP?!” l.u'.-'1-.1. 3.;-> .»I:'!::/x}«:m’ Sr:-x1'c<.<. /
\ ,

Friday, November 15
9:00 p.m.
Gaines Gatehouse

Free Admission
Sponsored by the Fridays! Committee

 

 

Generals in action this week:

Foormu. - L. 43-27. vs. Emory & Henry

aogrmu - Saturday at Swarthmore. 1:30 pm. Msoccn - L. 3-1. vs. Eastern Mennonite In omc ﬁnal
ws"“"""°_'     ‘I:-3 Mswnnmoo . W. 100-76. at Centre: L. 11290. at Transylvania
wnnnum _ Sunday at VMI Keydet Immauonal. [000 am. :3'llIIl110G -  |l;8;7l3.l:t Centre: L. 104-101. at Transylvania
ou.siruu.- . - . -8. 14-16. 15-8. vs. Gullford (ODAC
L. 15.10. 15.10. 15-12. vs. Bridgewater tourn.)

, Q1095 Oouirru - Men 5th. Women 6th at Division III regionals

PAGE 6 FOOTBALL, SOCCER, SWIMMING, VOLLEYBALL. CRoss COUNTRY

Ellie iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Last week’s results:

NOVEMBER 15, 1996

Voneybaﬂfaﬂs
to Bridgewater

BY JEREMY MCNAMEE
PHI STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee vol-
leyball team reached the ODAC
championship game for the sec-
0 n d
straight
year, but
the Gen-
erals were
unable to
repeat as
c o n f e r -
e n c e
champs,
losing to
archrival

 

!3ndg=wat'r
in the ﬁ-
nals at Emory & Henry.

W&L whipped Randolph-
Macon in four games in the
quarterﬁnals as freshman Nancy
Reinhart and senior Virginia
Yoerg each had 11 kills.

In the s '1 ifinals, W&L
coasted past” uilford in four
games, 15-11, 15-8, 14-16, 15-8,
behind 13 kills from Reinhart and
12 kills from junior Holly
Thomsen. *

However, the Generals ﬁ-
nally met their match against
Bridgewater in the ﬁnal, suc-
cumbing 15-10, 15-10, 15-12.
Yoerg was her usual self with 13
kills in her collegiate ﬁnale.

W&L finished the season
with an impressive mark of 29-
4, tying the school record for
wins set by last year’s squad.

Sophomore Lee Ann Gschwind prepares to serve
for the Generals. The volleyball team finished its
year with a loss to Bridgewater in the ODAC ﬁnal.

Emory & Henry

W&L loses 14-0
lead as Wasps win
third straight title

BY Sccrrr BOOKWALTER
PHI Sronrs EDrroR

 

For one quarter, the Washington and
Lee football team had defending ODAC
champion Emory & Henry right where it
wanted. '

An shocking upset and a chance for
the ODAC title appeared within the Gen-
erals’ grasp. But then the Wasps’ J.D.
Davis revved up his engine and reality
began to sink in for
the Generals.

Emory & Henry
erased a 14-0 defi-
cit by reeling off 29
consecutive points
en route to a 43-27
victory over the
Generals at Wilson
Field Saturday af-
ternoon.

The Wasps’ vic-
tory gave them their third straight ODAC
title. Since Randolph-Macon lost to

Bridgewater, a Generals victory over the
Wasps would have given W&L its first
title since 1985.

Still, the Generals performed very
admirably against a team that had beaten
them 13 straight times, mostly in blow-
outs.

“I was proud that the team came ready
to play from the ﬁrst snap,” senior quar-
terback Brooks Fischer said. ‘‘I can re-
member times over the last four years
when guys were intimidated by playing
Emory & Henry On Saturday there was
no fear-everyone felt that way.”

The Generals played anything but
scared. One minute into the second quar-
ter, W&L looked more like the team that
had won two straight titles.

After a missed field goal on W&L’s
first drive, senior wideout Tommy Rueger
gave the Generals an early 7-0 lead on an
11-yard touchdown pass from Fischer
with 3:46 left in the first quarter. The
score was set up when sophomore Ben
Middendorf recovered an E&H fumbled
punt return at the W&L 47.

Rueger and Fischer then switched
places on W&L’s next drive. On an odd
double pass play, Fischerthrew to Rueger
in the backﬁeld, who then threw back
across the ﬁeld to Fischer, who scam-
pered 19 yards into the end zone for a rare

unlikely

ex

Photo by Ron Bookwalter

 

ternoon.
Last

 

The Washington and
Lee men’s soccer team’s

through the Old
Dominion Ath-
letic Conference
tournament ended
with a 3-1 defeat
to Eastern Menno-
nite in the tourna-
ment champion-
ship game this
past Saturday af-

Friday,
W&L took out top-seeded

Men’s soccer finishes

season in ODAC final  

W&L closes
with record
twelve wins

BY JEREMY MCNAMEE
PHI STAFF WRITER

backyard.

second half.

This victory snapped seven minutes later for a 3-1

run Roanoke’s 11- margin.
game winning Despitethe loss, W&Lﬁn-
streak. ished the season with a 12-6

 

Roanoke, 2-1, in the Maroons’

Sophomore Sam Chase gave
the Generals a 1-0 halftime lead
off a corner kick from freshman
Ben Thompson before the Ma-
roons tied it at 1-1 early in the

Midway through the second
half, Chase struck again with the
eventual game-winner on an as-
sist fromjunior Colin Connolly.

The Generals
retumedtotheﬁeld
the following day
to play fellow

CinderellaEastern all named first-team all-
Mennonite for the ODAC.
ODAC crown. Junior Mike Germain re-

EMU jumped out
to a 1-0 first half
advantage before
freshman Jamie Parker notched

the equalizerjust over seven
minutes into the second half
off an assist from Thompson.

This tally marked Parker’s
school-record 20th goal of
the season. .

The score remained knot-
ted at 1-] until the Royals ,
took the lead for good at the
67 minute mark on a Nate
Derstine goal. EMU would
then add an insurance goal

record, setting a new school
record for wins.

Parker, Chase and sopho-
more back Mikel Parker were

ceived second team honors
and sophomore goalie Garry
Hill received honorable men-
tion.

touchdown reception.

“Catching the touchdown pass from
Tommy was one ofthose plays that I will
always remember,” Fischer said. “As a
quarterback, you always want to catch a
pass because it makes you feel more like
an athlete.”

The Generals now led the Wasps 14-
0 with 16 seconds gone in the second
quarter and looked to pour it on. But they
would never get the opportunity. Emory
& Henry got its ground game churning
and began driving downfield at will.

The Wasps’ onslaught began on
Jimmie Clark’s leaping 29-yard touch-
down reception from quarterback Aaron
Brand to make it 14-6. The PAT was
blocked, but E&H came right back with
the first of three J.D. Davis touchdown
runs, a 6-yard dash, with 8:38 remaining
in the half.

The two-point attempt failed, leaving
the score at 14-12, but the Wasps finally
caught up to the Generals on a safety with
3:37 left. Following the free kick, E&H
marched downfield once again. Another
Davis TD run, this time from 11 yards
out, gave the Wasps a 21-14 advantage at
halftime.

The Generals had to contend with the
elements as sleet and snow ﬁurries fell
and the wind picked up in the second
half,butdealingwiththeweatherseemed
easier than dealing with Davis.

The Wasps’ running back ran
roughshod over the Generals for an E&H
school record 288 yards rushing on an
amazing 40 attempts. Davis’sthird touch-
down of the day, a 4-yard run, gave the
Wasps a 29-14 margin four minutes into
the half.

W&L then mounted a ﬁnal charge,
awakening the crowd with a four-play
57-yard drive, capped by a 4-yard Seth
McKinley touchdown run to close within
29-20 at the 5:04 mark in the third quar-
ter.

But Emory & Henry refused to wilt,
and it regained control in the fourth quar-
ter. Brand scored on a 2-yard plunge and
Shane Tucker added a 4-yard run, ex-
tending the lead to 43-20 and sealing
another league title for the Wasps.

McKinley scored his career-high sixth
touchdown of the season with 45 seconds
left to cap the scoring.

Unlike its 132 yards in total offense
one week ago at Bridgewater, the Gener-
als’ offense was not a problem this past
Saturday.

The offense turned in its best perfor-
mance of the season with 361 total yards,
but the defense was steamrolled for 492

yards against the Wasps, including 397-

on the ground to Davis and Co. Brand,
meanwhile, completed only three passes

for the Wasps.

Fischer, on the other hand, became
the Generals’ all—time passing leaderwith
an 18 for 27 effort for a season—high 211
yards. The senior from Atlanta now
holds school records in yards (4,600),
completions (441), and is now only one
touchdown pass away from tying Phillip
Sampson’s (1986-89) record of 32.

“It’s difﬁcult tothink about the record
right now, partly because the loss to
Emory still hurts,” Fischer said, “but also
because we still have one more game to
win. The team’s success is much more
important to me. I would trade some
more wins for any record.”

Junior receiver Nick Hodge also had a
huge day for the Generals on offense,
catching six of Fischer’s passes for a
career-best 159 yards. SeniorJ on Gardner
hauled in four passes for 36 yards, giving
him the most receptions (26) for a W&L
tight end since 1989.

Sophomore Floyd Young led the Gen-
erals’ ground effort with 6 rushes for 28
yards.

The W&L defense spent a lot of time
on the ﬁeld as E&H controlled the ball
for more than 36 minutes, but senior
linebacker McGuire Boyd made the best
of it with 16 tackles, including a season-
high 8 solo stops. Boyd now has 114
tackles on the season, the highest for a
W&L player in five years. Sophomore
Trey Carr added nine tackles while se-

rushes past Generals

nior Chris Watson and junior Matt Luka
had eight.

The 4-5 Generals will look to end
their season on a winning note and close
their season with four wins in five games
for the third straight year as they travel to
winless Swarthmore (0-9) tomorrow. The
Garnet Tide’s defense has been a wash-
out this season, yielding an average of
39.6 points per game.

The Generals, however, are not tak-
ing Swarthmore lightly. Last year, the
Garnet Tide prevailed 2-0 in the infa-
mous Mud Bowl on Wilson Field. The
previous year, the Generals turned ﬁve
Garnet Tide turnovers into a 14-11 vic-
tory at Swarthmore. The teams’ only
other meeting came back in 1914, a 10-0
W&L victory in Norfolk.

“The scariest thing about Swarthmore
is that they are 0-9,” Fischer said, adding
that the Garnet Tide is talented, but young
at some key positions. “We are good, but
not good enough to take any team lightly.
We remember well that they spoiled our
season last year.”

A win would give the Generals three
straight .500 orbetter seasons since 1988-
90 and would make head coach Frank
Miriello the‘ fastest to 10 career victories’
since George Barclay in 1949-50.

“Hopefully we can show up with the
same intensity as last Saturday,” Fischer
said. “If we do that, good things should
happen.”

Photo by Julien Williams

Senior Brooks Fischer drops back to pass. Fischer had a huge
day Saturday, becoming W&L’s all-time passing leader.

Swimming teams split meets in Kentucky  

Men and
women beat
Centre, fall to
Transylvania

BY JASON ZACHER
PHI STAFF WRITER

Freshman Brooke
Stanley started her Wash-
ington and Lee swimming
career in style, breaking
two school records in a
strong showing for the

women’s first meet of the
season.

On Saturday morning,
W&L trounced Centre,
118-73. In the afternoon,
the Generals met
Transylvaniafortheirsec-
ond meet of the day, nar-
rowly losing, 104-101.

Stanley broke the W& L
50-yard freestyle record
against Centre with a time
of 25.09, and then broke
the same record later in
the 200 free relay with a
time of 25.02.

In the afternoon, she
broke the 100 freestyle
recordwithatimeof54.82.

Stanley also won the 50-
yard freestyle at
Transylvania.

Also leading the Gen-
erals was sophomore Mar-
garet Hoehl, who picked
up two wins in the 1,000
freestyle. She also picked
up a pair of second place
finishes at Transylvania,
missing the 200 freestyle
victory by two hundredths
of a second.

Freshman Lauren
Beckenhauer picked up
two victories in the 200-
yard backstroke.

Captain Laura Marshall
and freshman Tasha

Sedlock also picked up
victories for the Generals.
W&L won the 200-yard
medley relay in both meets
and defeated Centre in the
200-yard free relay.

The swimmers are very
optimistic about the sea-
son."

“The addition of nine
freshmen added a lot of
neededdepthtoourteam,”
remarked Hoehl.

Sedlock, Stanley and
Beckenhauer will ﬁll the
shoes left by several key
swimmers. The Generals
lost Rebekah Prince to
graduation, and junior

Megan Wiedmaier is tak-
ing the year off. Junior
Bligh Wollner is injured,
but should return in Janu-
ary.

The men also split their
meets Saturday.

They beat Centre, 100-
76, in the morning, but
despite the ﬁrst-place ﬁn-
ishesbyseniorAll-Ameri-
can Nathan Hottle in the
200 freestyle, 200 back-
stroke and 200 IM, the
Generals lost to
Transylvania, 112-90.

Junior John Reed won
the 200 breaststroke and
200 freestyle against Cen-

tre, and won the 200
breaststroke again against
Transylvania in a time of
2:26.69. Hottle won the
200 backstroke and 200
IM against Centre.

Also picking up victo-
ries against Centre were
freshman Brian Rogers in
the 200 butterﬂy, fresh-
man Jared Fribush in the
50 freestyle, and the relay
teams in both the 200 med-
ley relay and the 200 free
relay.

The men’s and
women’s next meet is to-

av

C

morrow at Marymount, ,

starting at 2:00 p.m.

 

