TUESDAY
Edition

Che King-tiun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXIV

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, TUESDAY, FEB. 25, 1964

Number 30

 

IFC Constitution

assed By Faculty C

 

ZBT, SPE’s, NFU’s, Delt’s

Top New Academic Listing

For the third consecutive semes-
ter Zeta Beta Tau has taken top
academic honors on campus. Finish-
ing with a 1.613 grade-point aver-
age, they were followed by Sigma
Phi Epsilon (1.579), Non Fraternity
Men (1.563), Delta Tau Delta (1.530),
and Pi Kappa Alpha (1.500).

Outstanding in their improvement
were the PiKA’s who advanced from
twelfth at the end of last year to
fourth this semester; the KA’s who
advanced from fifteenth to sixth;
and the Betas who came up from

 
 

 

eighteenth to eight. The DU’s,
however, reversed the trend and
fell from third to sixteenth.
Individual fraternities, and their
standings, are as follows:

Pote eee TO cc disse 1.613
Sigma Phi Epsilon ...:csssssssssesssesess 1.579
Non Fraternity Mem ......ccssssees 1.563
Db TE TN iiccsttinnnes 1.530
Pi Kara Alphe....csessssssssrsssssssseee 1.500
Phi Garrrns DGG ocsccccscssscsssssss0s 1.461
POGUE IGN oiisiinssicscssnsnnaes 1.446
All Mens Average .....cssscscssesoes 1.437
Loartiloda Gi AI Me scscsssscnsssisscscsens 1.430

 

German Dept.
Receives Gitt

German teaching and scholarship
has been boosted with a gift of
books, records, and tape recordings
from the Goethe Institute, Munich,
Germany.

The institute, whose purpose is the
teaching of the German language
to people of all ages, sent the gift
through the Atlanta, Ga. consulate
of the Federal Republic of Germany.

About 150 items valued at approx-
imately $500 are included in the
gift. The tape recordings and records
already have been put into use in
language laboratory to help stu-
dents improve their German speak-
ing ability.

All the books will be available
to undergraduates taking German
courses. Critical and reference works
on German literature, all kinds of
dictionaries, guide books, art and
history books, works of German
literature with particular emphasis
on 20th century writing and text-
books used in German schools to
teach German are included in the
gift,

 

Notice

The Executive Committee of the
University Christian Association will
meet at 1:30 p.m. Wednesday in the
Student Union.

 

 
 

  

Bee THOM Fe masnisonwna 1.418
ee TE aciinnaisnss sesseed 409
All Fraternity Men ..........scsse 1.403
PH Kappa Sign oissscsccssccssssssssss 1.400 |”
Pe A incicceuniieicns 1.395
SAE GO es astessccnnnneenne 1.389
PE I a ioyetssissssssvesiveseassscnec 1.379
ee os ee ee nv 1.379
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................. 1.298
Te WEE Hsdesrccscissestin 1.225
ee ee rr 1.129
FA FOG PO sssctsccsresceuensnniss 1.105

 

Translation

By Dr. Barret
Is Praised

Dr. L. L. Barrett, professor of ro-
mance languages, has translated a
Brazilian author’s book comparing
the histories and cultures of the
United States and Brazil. The book
is Bandeirantes and Pioneers writ-
ten by Vianna Moog in Portugese.

Critic’s Opinion

Reviewing it in the Washington
Post, Roberto de Oliverira Campos
said: “Its English translation, in-
trinsically difficult by reason of the
elaborate style in which the original
was written, has been masterfully
done by L. L. Barrett.”

‘Campos, who recently returned to
the Brazilian Embassy in Washing-
ton, called the book “a comprehen-
sive and attention-holding X-raying
of the comparative histories of the
United States of American and
Brazil.”

More Praise

Writing in The New York Times
Book Review, William L. Gossman,
a New York University professor,
judged the book as “an informative
and stimulating exercise in cultural
analysis.”

Charles Wagley, director of the
Institute of Latin American Studies
at Columbia University, termed the
book, “One of the most important
and thoughtful books coming from
Latin America in my generation.”

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the
Young Republicaris at 7:30 Thurs-
day night, Feb. 27, in the Student
Union, The purpose of the meeting
is to select delegates for the state
Young Republicans meeting which
will be held in Roanoke on March
6 and 7,

 

 

Accepts Post At New College

 

Dr. Borden Leaves Faculty

Dr. Arthur Ross Borden, professor
of English at Washington and Lee,
has been appointed to a top admin-
istrative post at New College in
Sarasota, Fla., which will open its
doors next fall.

Dr. Borden has been named dean
of the Division of Humanities of the

Dr. A. Ross Borden

June 1. His appointment fills one
newly established, privately endow-

ed college. He will begin his duties

 

 

of the three divisional deanships
which will be created at the college.

Now on leave of absence from
Washington and Lee, Dr. Borden is
on a special assignment in New York
with the advanced placement pro-
gram of the College Entrance Ex-
amination Board.

A native of Boston, he received
his bachelor’s, master’s and doctor’s
degrees from Harvard. He later be-
came assistant dean at Harvard Col-
lege, shortly after World War II.

He joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1952 and was made a
full professor in 1959. He had pre-
viously taught at Lafayette College
and New York University.

Dr. Borden has been awarded
grants for study at various univer-
sity libraries and at Stratford-on-
Avon in England.

During World War II, Dr. Borden
served with the Office of Strategic
Services, first with the French Army
and later in Italy and Germany.

New College, a four year co-
educational school of liberal arts and
sciences, will accept students this
fall on its $15,000,000 campus now
under construction.

Students will live in unique hous-
ing groups on the campus, each with
its own faculty family in residence.
A form of the tutorial plan _ will
make possible independent study in
special fields.

 

 

James Jackson Kilpatrick
James Kilpoarick, editor of the Richmond News Leader, is a well-
known spokesman both for political conservatism and the Southern posi-
tion on civil rights.

Kilpatrick of ‘News Leader’
To Speak Here on March 18

By STIRLING LATHROP

James Jackson Kilpatrick editor of the Richmond News-
Leader will address Washington and Lee students at 8 p.m.
March 18, in duPont. As of yet, he is undecided as to the
topic but in a telephone interview, said he will concern himself
generally with the world and its changes in the next 20-30

years brought about by governmen-*

tal policies and population explo-
sion, and with conservative policies,
responsibility, and principles applied
to the problems of change.

Recently, he has discussed the
problems of and his views on the
race problem with CORE director
James Farmer, and, on television,
with Negro rights leader Martin
Luther King.

On this campus his arguments
have been both attacked and sup-
ported in Ring-tum Phi letters, edi-
torials, and articles. He is noted for
his representation of the segrega-
tionist South, and as opposed to Fed-
eral intervention in state affairs.

Native of Oklahoma

Kilpatrick was born in Oklahoma
City in 1920, attended elementary
and high school there, and gradu-
ated from the University of Missouri
in 1941 with a Bachelor of Journal-
ism degree.

In the same year he began work-
ing for the News-Leader, covering
State and Federal courts and offices.
In 1949, under Dr. Douglass South-
all Freeman, Kilpoarick became as-
sociate editor of the News-Leader,
and in June of that year he became
editor upon Freeman’s retirement.

He has been honored by the Uni-
versity of Missouri for distinguished

New Yorker Writes Up
Nine-Y ear-Old David Wise

David Wise, who appeared at
Washington and Lee under the
sponsorship of ReVue, has attained
more national recognition for his
films. He was interviewed by the
New Yorker for the February 15
issue of the magazine. The article
stated that the editors of the New
Yorker had learned of Wise from
his lecture delivered on this campus
last semester.

New Yorker’s article discussed
Wise’s interests in the art of the
production of films. Wise showed
them his film, “Short Cireuit,” which
is his most recent effort.

Seemingly partial to monsters and
creatures of that variety, Wise, busy
making a new film entitled “Triple
Spice,” has just turned 9 this month.
He is not confining himself to movies
alone: monster comics have become
a part of his talents.

The place from which all of this
work comes is Wise’s basement
workshop. This basement room
reflected in his films and drawings,
acording to the New Yorker, It
is fittingly wild, unkempt, and mons-
ter-like.

is

 

 

service in journalism, a result of
an editorial campaign to release a
Negro, mistakenly convicted and
sentenced to life for murder.
‘Distinguished Editorial’ Award
For an editorial campaign in sup-
port of the doctrine of interposition,
the honorary journalism fraternity
Sigma Delta Chi, awarded him its
annual prize for distinguished edi-
torial writing, in 1956. In 1955-56 he
served as chairman for the National
Conference of Editorial Writers. In
1958, Governor Almond appointed
him a member of Virginia’s Commis-
sion on Constitutional Government.
His books are: The Soverign States
(1957), with co-editor, Louis D.
Rubin, Jr.; The Lasting South (1957),
a book on the history of obscenity
censorship and the modern porno-
graphy racket, published in 1960;
and his latest work, The Southern
Case for School Segregation (1962).

 

ommittee

Limits & Power Defined;
Judicial Board Established

The new Interfraternity Council constitution has been ap-
proved by the Faculty Committee on Fraternities and ratified

by the IFC itself by a vote of

16-1, with one abstention. The

Faculty Committee was ‘‘very enthusiastic”’ about the new con-
stitution according to Dean Atwood, chairman of the com-

 

Class-Free Day

To Be Dropped
In The Future

Washington and Lee observed the
birthday of one of its namesakes
Saturday by suspending classes.

Although no formal convocation
is held, the university halts opera-
tions to honor George Washington
who gave Liberty Hall Academy
(now Washington and Lee) in 1776
James River Canal stock valued at
$50,000.

This was the first such gift of se-
curities to a college in this country
and Washington and Lee still de-
rives income from the gift.

By recent vote of the faculty,
Saturday was the last time classes
will not meet on Washington’s birth-
day. Instead the free day will be
given just before May Examinations
begin to meet a student request for
a pre-exam “reading day.”

The new plan starts in the 1964-
65 session.

 

Turner Cites
Essay Rules

Applications may now be obtained
for entrance in the Cincinnati and
Colonial Dame Societies essay con-
tests, from Dr. C. W. Turner in 1
duPont Hall.

The Cincinnati Society awards
$50.00 for the best essay. This award
was won by Bob Mottley of W&L
last year. Patton Adams won the
Virginia Colonial Dames contest last
year, which is $200.00 for the best
essay submitted from Virginia col-
leges.

The essays must be 4,000 words or
more and on an original subject in
Virginia colonial and military his-
tory. The essays must be submitted
to the respective committees by May
20, 1964. One essay may be submit-
ted for both contests.

A list of possible subjects may be
obtained from Dr. Turner’s office.

Dr. Turner’s office is located in

 

the basement of duPont Hall.

* mittee.

Judicial Board

The major change contained in
the new constitution is the Judicial
Board. This Board will be composed
of students from the IFC and will
deal with infractions of IFC rules.
Although the Faculty Committee on
Fraternities will have final review
on all cases judged by the Judicial
Board, this is a return ‘to the sys-
tem in which students judge stu-
dents. Any appeal to a decision must
be placed with the Faculty Commit-
tee.

Penalties

In accordance with the Judicial
Board the constitution defines the
jurisdiction of the IFC and clearly
outlines the rules by which the fra-
ternities must abide. The penalties
which will be imposed by the Board
range from a warning, to a fine, to a
suspension, to a recommendation
for removal of the offending frater-
nity’s charter. In giving this added
power to the IFC tthe constitution
contains a great deal of mechanics
in order to insure the smooth op-
eration of the new system.

Other Features

Other features of the new consti-
tution include several measures to
exclude politics from the elections
of IFC officers. Among these are a
committee for making nominations
and a waiting period of a week be-
fore newly elected officers are in-
stalled.

With the ratification of the new
constitution Monday night came the
first amendment which was _ that
freshmen can be initiated with a
1.5 grade point ratio at mid-semester
of the second semester. The constitu-
tion still requires a 1.0 for initiation
at the end of the first semester.

Plans for Rush Week

The new constitution does not
make any changes in Rush Week,
but the IFC is discussing some
changes in the present format for
Rush Week. These new ideas will
be presented in the next month or
so.

The constitution will be put into
effect as soon as Justices can be
elected to form the Judicial Board.
These elections will take place at
the next meeting of the IFC which
will be next Monday.

Occupancy To Be This Summer

 

Reid’s Renovation On Schedule

The remodeling of Reid Hall as
a new home for Washington and Lee
University’s Department of Journal-
ism and Communications is more
than half finished.

D. E. Brady, Jr., the university's
Superintendent of Buildings and
Grounds, said the construction work
is on schedule. Plans call for the
renovation to be completed in late
spring with the department mov-
ing into its new quarters during the
summer.

The facilities will go into use at
the beginning of the 1964-65 aca-
demic year.

Formerly Physics Department

Reid Hall was constructed in 1904.
The physics department formerly
occupied the structure until mov-
ing into the new science building
last year.

Renovation of Reid Hall for the
journalism department began in Oc-

tober, 1963. When completed it will |

provide modern and complete facil-
ities for the academic program of
the department as well as for lab-

advertising, radio and _ television,
photography, public relations and
motion picture production.
Stress on Academics
O. W. Riegel, chairman of the De-

partment of Journalism and Com-|

 

munications, said instruction in the
department puts major emphasis on
academic study of the subject, re-
flecting the university’s liberal arts
tradition. He said the heart of the
department’s new facilities will be
the second floor of Reid Hall which
will contain classrooms, library, sem-
inar room and offices.

A classroom seating approximately
100 students will take up one side
of the second floor. Seats will be
arranged on elevated tiers facing a
lecture platform. A projection booth
is being installed in the rear.

A special sound system will permit
radio programs produced in third
floor studios to be piped into the
classroom or lectures given in the
room can be recorded in a control
booth on the third floor.

The library on the second floor
will house the department’s collec-
tion of books, periodicals and news-
papers, as well as historical and
other archive material.

 

Other second floor facilities will |
include faculty offices, a seminar)

: ‘ |room, a student lounge, and a film)
oratories for newspaper procedures, |

storage and editing room.

Riegel said the department also)
recognizes students need practical
experience in journalism and com-|

| munications and pointed out the first |

and third floors are being equipped |

to meet this requirement. |

Edition,

Broadcasting Studio

Three sound-proofed, air-condi-
tioned broadcasting studios will take
up half of the third floor. They mea-
sure 35 by 21, 16 by 21 and seven
by nine feet respectively. One con-
trol room will serve all three studios
and have windows looking into each
of them.

A room patterned after a news-
paper news room will occupy the
other side of the third floor. It will
be equipped with typewriter desks
and a semi-circular copy desk.

Students interested in newspaper
writing and editing will use these
facilities.

Two Associated Press teletypes
will be installed in a separate room
nearby to serve both the news room
and the broadcasting studios.

Other third floor facilities will in-
clude a tape storage and editing
room, a phonograph record stor-
age room, a news room for Home
an advertising laboratory
and drafting room and faculty of-
fices.

Up under the eaves of the fourth

| floor will be a photographic labora-

tory with separate rooms for de-
veloping and printing.

The first floor of Reid Hall will
house the Journalism Laboratory
press now in a small separate build-
ing on campus,
Page 2

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

A Bout With Boxing

Romans watched Christians eaten by lions, English
gentlemen baited bears. Thankfully, our civilization has
reached a point where such inhumanities are unthinkable,
and even laughable.

You think so? Watch the contest tonight for the
world’s heavyweight boxing title. Without attempting
rash predictions, we would not be at all surprised if Cas-
sius Clay were killed in the first round.

Boxing is primarily a sport that people watch because
they like to see people hurt. Many appreciate fine points
of technique, but the basic desire to see someone beat
up, knocked out, mauled and perhaps destroyed, is always
there. This is an indictment of boxing in general; but there
are much mote serious objections about the sport as it
stands today. The fighters are not trained well enough;
they do not know how to defend themselves; the princi-
pals involved are actually pawns in a much larger game
that works for profit, and the result is that what should
be a sport played for its own sake becomes a desperate
fight for survival. Most important, it kills people, people
who really have no control over the situation, it damages
their minds if they manage to live—all to satisfy the
screaming crowd. It just isn’t worth it.

Sports writers are agreed that Cassius Clay is not at all
prepared to fight tonight. A few days ago he was knocked
groggy by one of his sparring partners. Anyone who has
seen Sonny Liston box knows what easily could happen.
If Clay becomes another Davy Moore, every supporter
of organized boxing must be ready to accpet a part of the
blame.

 

Overcuts And F’s

A freshman in the undergraduate school has been
dropped from a course with an F for overcutting.

Under the old cut system, a student was permitted
one overcut before being dropped with an F on a second
overcut. Even on the second overcut, it was often pos-
sible for a student to avoid being dropped from a course
by petitioning the faculty committee on absences.

Such is NOT the case under the new system. The
absence regulations instituted this semester state that “If
a student has one unexcused absence beyond the num-
ber of absences permitted... he shall be dropped from
that course with grade F.” Futhermore, the administra-
tion has adopted a policy of strict enforcement of the
overcutting regulation. Only under extreme situations
would petioning the faculty committee get a student’s
F removed.

Washington and Lee students have been complaining
for years about the school’s cut system. Now that a more
liberal policy has been adopted, it would seem that it is
the duty of the student body to prove that they’ve always
been saying—that they are mature enough to accept the
responsibility of more cuts.

The absence regulations have been printed and copies
are available in the Registrar’s Office. Since the new sys-
tem includes a number of rather complicated particulars,
it is extremely important that all students be familiar with
the regulations. So far, few students have bothered to
pick up a copy of the cut system. We join with Dean
Atwood in urging everyone to get a copy, to read it thor-
oughly, and to demonstrate the maturity the new system
assumes.

Current Cinema

"Tom Jones’ Rated Down
Despite Critics’ A pproval

By TOM PACE

This past weekend, and perhaps on weekends in the future,
many of you went, or will go, to the big city to enjoy yourself,
a lot more than you are often able to do in Lexington. If you did,
or do, you might have found, or might find, that the only things
you will be able to afford is a film. When this happens I imagine
many will want to see “Tom Jones,” a film which has received a
great deal of favorable critical comment, and which, most probably,
will receive this year’s Academy Award, having already got the
equally infamous New York film critics annual award.

Perhaps then I may say something concerning “Tom Jones” which
you have not heard. I saw it in New York on Thanksgiving Day,
after having stood in line for over an hour, and having missed
the only decent, and free, meal I would have had over the holidays.
But I was hopeful that it would be worth all that. I, apparently
alone, didn’t think it was. “Tom Jones” strikes me as the most over-
rated film of the last several years. After a person has read the novel,
one of the finest and funniest in the English language, I find it dif-
ficult to believe they could honestly consider the film the masterpiece
so many of them seem to think it is.

The film is awfully vulgar in many spots, though admittedly
awfully funny. I choose the adverb “awfully” for it seems sad to
me that raw vulgarity can be as amusing as it sometimes is. I say
“sometimes” because more often, in the film “Tom Jones,” vulgarity
is simply vulgar, and not funny at all. Many critics have reported
on the film’s savage satire, or its biting social comment, which has
no doubt pleased its director, Tony Richardson. But in reality he
fails at both because of his approach. Henry Fielding, in his master-
ful novel, succeeds at both through the use of cleverly written in-
troductions to each of the book’s chapters. The reader laughs at the
way he makes his point and sympathizes with the position he takes.

Continued on page 4)

 

 

The Blacks: A Clown Show—by
Jean Genet. Grove Press paper-
back—$1.75.

“One evening an actor asked me
to write a play for an all-black cast.
But what exactly is a black? First of
all, what’s his color?”

So begins Genet’s exceptionally
long one-act play, The Blacks. An
equally appropriate question might
be asked—what exactly is Jean
Genet? He is a sort of modern-day
Villon and Verlaine rolled into one,
and has wandered throughout Eu-
rope as a thief, pimp, beggar, and
homocexual. He has spent a good
part of his life in various prisons,
where he first began writing serious-
ly. After beginning with poetry, he
soon started turning out long prose
narratives, the best known of which,
Our Lady of the Flowers, only re-
cently has been translated from the
French and published in the United
States. Aippearing hand in hand
last year with Our Lady of the
Flowers was a long overdue trans-
lation of Jean-Paul Sartre’s Saint
Genet, a sort of existential hand-
book (800 pages) to an understand-
ing of Genet’s life and actions. In
Saint Genet Sartre has canonized
this poete-voleur for the simple rea-
son that he has set the perfect ex-

Current Literature in Review

 
 
 

 
 

 

The Audience Is Symbolic
In Genet Play, “The Blacks’

Reviewed by Bob Brickhouse

ample of making the existential
“free-choice” by picking thievery
as his way of life and sticking to it.
Genet Rises to Objectivity

Genet has progressed from poetry
to prose and drama, and Martin
Esslin in his critical Theater of the
Absurd stresses that this represents
an important change from extremely
subjective to objective writing. To-
day Genet writes only plays, and
the best known of these outside
France is probably The Blacks,
which has ben playing off-Broadway
at St. Mark’s Playhouse since 1961.

Audience Is Symbolic

The Blacks is a_play-within-a-
play. The all-Negro cast is divided
into two groups, one of which per-
forms a ritual of the murder of a
white person. The other group,
whose players wear white masks,
represents a colonial jury of white
dignitaries waiting to pass judgment
on the murdering Negros. There-
fore the Negros performing the mur-
der ritual on the stage are trapped
between the whites in the audience
and the white-masked jury. Thus, if
the play were performed before an
all-black audience it would lose
its symbolic force. To insure there
will always be a white audience to
play for, Genet suggests that each

 
    

  

 

evening a white person should be in-
vited to the theater. “But what if
no white persons accept? Then let
white masks be distributed to the
black spectators. If the blacks re-
fuse the masks, then let a white
dummy be used.” So the trapped
Negroes on the stage are symbols of
the plight of all blacks everywhere
But, as Esslin points out, this is not
a play dealing primarily with the
difference between Negroes and
whites: The Blacks “stand above all,
for Jean Genet himself,”

Intended for Stage

The Blacks has been labeled “as
startling on the printed page as it
is on the stage.” In this I disagree.
Somehow this seems to be a play
which was meant to be seen per-
formed on stage and not to be read.
The quietness of the music of the
colonial waltzes, the grotesqueness
of the white masks, or, in short, the
wierd beauty of the entire play for
some reason cannot be conveyed
powerfully in print. I would suggest
that instead of spending $1.75 for
the book, you should save up an
additional $1.75 and see The Blacks
performed live. Who knows—you
might even be the one white person
in the audience who gives the play
its meaning.

 

He’s hosed ’em all down

 

Slog Is A Guy Just About Like You

Slog is a guy just about like you.

He picks his nose. Wears weejuns
and dark socks. He no longer wears
huggers. He knows better than to
buy an Arrow shirt. He bought a
pair of garters the first winter he
came here. He knows that the Lex-
ington Cleaners won’t rip your shirts
and the Rockbridge Laundry will.
He has appeared before the Assimi-
lation Committee. He has called the
person who turned him into the
Assimilation Committee a sonofa-
bitch. He still thinks the person
is a sonofabitch.

He has a tux. He has been to debu-
tante parties. He says he hates them.
He will go to more of them. His
parents do not make him but he
says they do. He’s “hosed ’em all
down.” Lots. He enjoyed it, he
said. He knows Midols are good for
hangovers. He knows how Saint A’s
at U.Va. shake hands. He’s got fake
I.D.’s. He is presently an advocate
of the Beatles. He can do the dog.
He likes Royal Lime. He wants a
sportscar. He makes roadtrips during
the week, but not too often. He
drinks beer on weekends and scotch
on Weekends. He goes to the truck
stop on Route 11 on Weekends and
sits there and waits and thinks a
Dobb’s House would do fine in Lex-
ington.

And he has been on bid teams...
and been on flick teams and on
IM handball teams and he’s been
laid. He knows you can’t buy ’em
at the bus station. He is tired of

Sem dates. He never liked them
much. He wonders if other guys
really do. He knows what Doc tried
to get started in the very room
where the president of the EBC now
lives. He doesn’t lie, cheat, or steal
anything but pencils when he for-
gets to be a gentleman. He is other-
wise a gentleman strictly by chance,
though occasionally by choice,
rarely by inclination.

He never introduces himself to
teachers who are invited to eat at
the house. He watches them while
he sits on the window sill. He learn-
ed twenty-eight names at freshman
camp. His hair is longer now than
it was that first week when he
bought the beanie. He wondered
why David got his hair cut. His
mother tells him to get his hair
cut every time he goes home. He
does. His mother sends him news-
clippings and letters. He reads the
newsclippings and throws away the
letters. He sent his teachers Christ-
mas cards.

He sees his friends he knew in
high school during vacation. He had
been on a state champ basketball
team with them. He used to call his
friends long distance when he was
a freshman. He no longer does. He
went to Christmas Eve Communion
and will probably go Easter if he
has a date. He has heard the Episco-
pal chaplain talk against fraternities.
He’s initiated. He knows how to get
along with allumnies. He’s lived in
the house. They kicked him out of

the freshman dorm. He’s been in
freshman riots. He’s friends with
Moby. He’s active on campus. He
wonders why the university buys
cheap toilet paper. He knows where
the bathrooms are at Baldwin,
Sweet Briar, Macon, and Hollins. He
is wise to the Slater System.

He and Bob Murray are just “like
that.” (First two fingers held
together.) He thinks Lexington cops
are a shame. He’s a believer in un-
limited cuts. He’s walked the world’s
longest footbridge. He knows what
a “scene” is. He knows what a fish
is. Nobody calls him a fish very
often. He refers to certain people
as “gapers” and “lizards.” He used
to go fishing a lot with his father,
but they stopped and are always
planning to go back to the same
“ole spot.” He has forgotten the
name of the “ole spot” but he re-
members having diarrhea there one
time when he was much shorter and
younger and fatter. He’s not an only
child. His father tells him he acts
like one. His father is a self made
man. He enjoys his old man’s humor.

He also likes Goshen. He enjoyed
“Mondo Cane.” He knew Jay Taylor,
He likes the owner of the Lyric.
The owner of the Lyric knows his
name. He wishes Dr. Junkin did.
Dr. Junkin gave him a B in Fine
Arts 101. He made two D’s in chem-
istry. He’s been on both academic
probation and Dean’s list. He knows
Atwood is cold sometimes. He knows

(Continued on page 4)

 

The Spirit of Liberalism

 

R. E. Lee’s Example of Intelligent Stand
Has Vanished Into Petty, Narrow Fears

By LAMAR LAMB

It was June of 1865 in Richmond,
just two months after the close of
a long and devas-
tating war. The
humilitation of
| defeat made the
air tense. In St.
Paul’s Church,
many of the
prominent people
of the city—in-
deed, of the South
—chose to wor-
ship on commun-
ion Sunday. But a
startling thing

 

not unusual day in Richmond’s his-
tory. At the close of the sermon
by Dr. Minnegerade, the first man to
come forward to receive the holy
communion was a Negro. As it is
reported by Colonel T. L. Broun,
who was present on that day, he
was “tall, well-dressed, and black.”
The congregation, not to mention the
good Dr. Minnegerade, was shocked,
humiliated, and confused.
Interestingly enough, General
Robert E. Lee, the leader of a re-
cently vanquished army and beloved
spokesman of the defeated South,
was in the congregation. “General
Robert E. Lee,” according to Colonel

 

and self-possessed manner, walked
up the aisle to the chanal rail, and
reverently knelt down to partake
of the communion, and not far from
the Negro.”

General Lee took this opportunity
to show the people of the South
the way they would have to go in
order to re-establish a peaceful and
successful society. Nor was this an
isolated instance. According to the
noted historian Douglas Southall
Freeman, General Lee freed his own
slaves long before the war began—
a time when a certain U. S. Grant
himself possessed slaves.

In fact, as we look at the charac-

 

LETTERS

Dear Sir:

I would like to extend my thanks
and congratulations to you and your
staff for making this year’s edition of
the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi consist-
ently good reading. I appreciate the
diversity of your articles: on politics,
on current films and literature, on
sports, on campus news; and I ad-
mire the skill of your writers.

Especially rewarding are your
cogent editorials which proceed with
wit and precision to expose the rel-
evant issues of the problems of the
Assimilation Committee, excessive
Executive Committee power, and the
integration of Washington and Lee.

Concerning this last problem, I,
for one, have decided to withhold
further contributions to my Alma
Mater until a less ambiguous and
more realistic stand on the issue has
been taken.

Epito

 

Sincerely,
A W&L ALUMNUS

(P.S. **Pardon the sloppiness of
this letter. It is to remind you that
your most serious and consistent
fault is negligent proofreading.)

Editor,
Tuesday Edition of the
Ring-tum Phi

I was shocked to read of the high-
ly informative exclusive interview
with President Cole regarding the
nearly completed blueprints for the
new gymnasium. As a member of
the “new breed” of undergraduate
students, I see no reason why the
school should consider wasting its
money in an attempt to meet the
standards of the high school from
which I came.

After all, why should we try to
improve upon the state’s finest four
lane, 23 yard pool, the combination
squash-handball courts, always in
the pink of condition with the most
effective lighting system available,
and a gym which finds other schools
engaged in a virtual dogfight to beat
off one another for a spot on our
schedule, and an efficient well-run
locker room inviting student partici-
pation,

I feel that the money currently
set aside for the new gymnasium
could serve a much more worth-
while cause—perhaps paying for an
unlimited supply of stamped assimi-
lation and cold check postcards, new
robes for the E.C., subscriptions to
Sports Illustrated and Ebony for the
library, or, better yet, a new resting
place for Traveller.

A STUDENT

To the editor,
Ring-tum Phi

It is a sad state of affairs when
the treasury of Washington and Lee
University cannot appropriate suf-
ficient funds to provide our campus
with adequate sidewalk railing.
Surely it is far better to have none
at all than to have such cheap wood-
en poles which not only look ter-
ribly unattractive but also are in dis-
repair most of the time anyway.

JOHN C. HASKELL, JR.

Che Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed wy. the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
Salon Virginia, under the act of March

 

Roger W. Paine, UI
Tuesday Editor-in-Chief

Walt L, McManus, Jr.
Business Manager

EDITORIAL BOARD
Tracy Harrington.......... Managing Editor
James F. Ledbetter....Asst. M'’ng Editor
Gareth S. Aden........ Feature Page Editor
Charles H. Newman.... ...News Editor
James Crothers............. Sports Editor
Taek i FOO 7
ssibbetichaassesiteapininleaad Photography Editor
Kenneth McGraw......Asst. News Editor
Michael Hash... Asst. News Editor
Bert Phillips ..Literature Columnist
Thomas 8. Pace Cc
Rod Cockshutt..
BR Fe isvisisissssiiccc ce Columnist
Howard Epstein, Barry Vaught..............
sssonssbbhaiensseetinisebeeiineatenioeces Associate Editors
Reporters
Stirling Lathrop, Tom Carpenter, Skip
Chase, Bill David, Larry Craig
BUSINESS STAFF
Dave Adams........... Advertising Manager
Gordie Hammann....Circulation Manager
Mike Lawrence, John Wolfe
Office Managers

   
 
  

 

 
    

 

 

 

happened in this building on that Broun, “arose in his usual dignified a (Continued on page 4) . Rick Carrelinn a Subscription Manager
YOU TOREUP ) || I TORE IT UP BECAUSE IT | | NO ARTISTIC VALUE? I A TRUE WORK OF ART
Ho beure | | LHAD.NO ARTISTIC VALUE... | |WORKED FOR FORTY-FIVE | | TAKES AT LEAST AN HOUR!

 

 

 

MINUTES DRAWING THAT HORSE

 

| Sanec2-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ne mmm |

 

 

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Downed 85-68 In CAC Tourney
Wrestlers Kill H-S, 37-0; Lose To ODC

 

Warren Stewart, wrestling at 177

pounds for the Generals, puts pres-
sure on his pinning “cradle” hold in W&L’s match with ODC, Saturday.

White, Winfield, Smith Pin
W &L Loses ToODC, 15-13

By JIM CROTHERS
Tuesday Sports Editor

After shutting out Hampden-Sydney, 37-0, last Wednes-
day, the General wrestlers lost a heartbreaker Saturday night to

Old Dominion College, 15-13.
In the Hampden-Sydney

match, Kemble White, Peter

Winfield, and Herb Smith all copped pins, with Winfield lead-
ing the way by defeating his opponent in only one minute and
*

twenty-nine seconds.

Butch West and Dick Musick led
the way for the W&L grapplers by
decisioning their foes, 6-1 and 10-1
respectively to give Washington and
Lee a quick match lead of 6-0.
White then downed his opponent in

1:43 at the 137-pound level raising |§

the W&L advantage to 11-0.

Since nine matches were wrestled |,
in this match (instead of the usual

eight) Coach Dick Miller inserted
Graeme Bannerman, a_ freshman
standout, into the lineup at 147
pounds, and Bannerman promptly
secured his first varsity victory by
downing Madison Cummings,

class, easily decisioned his oppon-
ent, 8-1, giving the Generals a com-
manding 17-0 lead when Winfield
gained his pin in the fast time of
1:29 in the first period.

Captain Herb Smith, after gain-
ing a 15-0 lead in his 177-pound
match, finally caught and pinned
Buzz Younte in the second period.
Wrestling for the first time this sea-
son, Dick Daesner had an easy time
of it when Hampden-Sydney for-
feited the heavyweight class. War-
ren Stewart, wrestling in the insert-
ed 191 pound bracket also scored
easily when his match was forfeited
too, giving the Generals the final
advantage, 37-0.

ODC Match

Several very close matches and
two upsets proved costly to the
Generals Saturday, when they were
edged, 15-13, by a strong ODC team.
After falling behind 9-3 and then,
12-8, W&L had pins each time by
Peter Winfield and Warren Stewart
to give them a slight 13-12 advantage
before the final heavyweight match.

In the decisive unlimited division
match, Dick Daesner had trouble
with Jeff Hall, whose size advantage
proved too much, and was decision-
ed9-3, to give the visiting Mon-
archs the 15-13 victory.

After Butch West easily decisioned

(Continued on page 4)

FEPEE EEE EEE eee Eee EET

~ LEXINGTON
* HARDWARE

-
%,

%
fe oferdeofe ode be ode ode de ode tends dente ode ode oleh de ole lool e

   
   

 

Swimmers Elect

Chase, Broaddus

5-0.]
Jamie Andrew, in the 157 pound] |

Broaddus

 

SWIMMING FLASH!!!

It was announced yesterday after-
noon that juniors Skip Chase and
Bill Broaddus had been chosen to
captain next year’s swimming team.

 

East Carolina dominated the Gen-
eral’s final meet by sweeping 10
of 11 firsts. John Wolfe took W&L’s
only first in the 500-yard freestyle,
while Bart Taylor took two seconds
in the 50-yard and 100-yard free-
style. However, the Generals swept
all thirds making the meet score
57-38. This gave the swimming team
a 5-5 season.

“I figured that if we broke even
we would have a good season.” So

said swim coach Norris Eastman in
view of the fact that most of the
Generals’ competition is heavily
scholarship dominated. An early loss
to UVa. was dissappointing, but up-
sets over Loyola and Wake Forest
proved the team’s ability, coach
Eastman said.

School records continued to be
broken with freshman Bill Wildrick
setting one each in the 200-yard
butterfly and the 500-yard freestyle.
(Continued on page 4)

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main St.
Phone HO 3-4121
Keepsake Diamond Rings
'| Modern repair department

 

 

 

TTT TTT TT TT TT TT TTT
FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECE OF FURNITURE

and POLE

eee beet ote obe ode ste ee deterred ode ode ete een ede ode ode ede deeded rte ote ode desde tee deer ee et tet

he Sete

VARNER

ee
%
Cg
*
+
+
*
*
%
RS
oe

*

 

-| Stewart, Roger Milam, Logan Bullitt, and Charles Myers.

 

 

Tuesday Ring-tum Phi

SPORTS

The Best Sports News On Campus

Backfield, Linebackers Strongest Positions

Spring Football Underway Now;
Generals Face Rebuilding Task

By W&L Information Service
Despite the loss of 16 seniors including his entire first team, W&L’s foot-
ball boss, Lee McLaughlin is not conceding an inch to his 1964 opponents.

“Anytime you lose an entire first team, you have to say you come
down in quality,’ McLaughlin said as he sent his 56-man squad through
spring practice drills.

In team depth Washington and Lee may be better off than last year,
barring injuries. The Generals should be a strong three-deep at every po-
sition except quaterback if the large crop of “promising” freshmen de-
velop fast as sophomores.

The Generals lost three signal callers to graduation, leaving the quarter-
backing chores to rising junior Larry Craig and a rising sophomore Bryant
Kendricks.

“We were real pleased with the way Craig came on at the end of
the season in both leadership and football ability,’ McLaughlin said. “He
has played enough not to be green and we think he can handle the job
adequately.”

 

!

Generals To Open Up Air Attack

Craig showed good passing ability as a freshman and may be called
on to take the airways more and more next fall. “We have realized that
we will have to give up the idea that passing is undignified,” McLaughlin
said. “This fall we are going to throw the ball even if we do not complete
it. We have to open up the opponents’ defenses so our running game can
be more effective.”

“It would be a natural for Bill David,’ McLaughlin said, :“but we are
still thinking about it. Even if we do not use a pro-set we will use more
sets off our Go-T.

David, the Generals leading pass receiver and the co-leader of the
College Athletic Conference last year with 20 receptions for 222 yards and
four touchdowns, has presented McLaughlin with a pleasant dilemma.

David and Tom Crenshaw, the Generals’ co-captains, both play right
halfback, but McLaughlin wants to put both of them in the starting lineup.

Despite the loss of stars Henry Sackett (633 yards rushing) and Stuart
Yoffe (403 yards), the Generals ‘backfield should be strong again this fall.

Joining David, Crenshaw, and Craig are a quartet of top quality left
halfbacks (Skip Chase, Harry Brookby, and Mike Goode) and a trio of
fullbacks (Dan Manson, John Anthony, John Bogart, and Tom Sparks).

Linebacker Position Strong
Only at defensive linebacker do the Generals appear overly endowed
in the line, since most of last year’s first string up-front men have gradu
ated.

But with Joe Miller, Jeff Novinger, Jamie Andrew, and rising soph-
omores Bogart, Chuck Staples, Bill Jeffries and Sparks, McLaughlin is
looking for linebacker to be the strongest spot since the days of Little
All-American Terry Fohs (1958-61).

Tackle will have more overall depth than usual with Starke Sydnor,
shifted from end, returnees Bill Skinner, Jack Kelly, Jerry Croston, Joe
Priddy, and Charles Mayer plus four promising sophomores—Warren

Guard is the Generals’ weakest line spot but Miller, Tom Day, Bo
Earnest, Wickey Stuart, and Curt Jernigan, who is moving from end,
should take up some of the slack created by the loss of the top three men
to graduation.

Bob Barclay and Tersh Baker along with Greg Sharkey and Bob Stauf-
fer give the Generals a capable but relatively inexperienced end corps.
Most promising sophomores are John Miller and Hank Hendrickson.

Center should be improved both in depth and talent with Novinger,
Jim Crothers, Charles Long, and Ben Gambill, all vieing for the wide
open pivot position.

 

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

Quick Service

KA’s Down Delts

As was predicted, (by Tuesday’s
sport editor) Kappa Alpha all but
clinched a first place spot in the
intra-mural handball competition
last night by upsetting the Delts, 4-
1, The KA’s won every single match
with Smitzy Kidd, Larry Craig, Mike
Brumby, and Allan Hubbard all vic-
torious, while the

 

eeeeceseees
Tilia deibles | 6 eeeeeeceseesece

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* |

 

 

 

 

®
team of Steve Walsh and Lindsey | § LEXINGTON °
Short captured their one victory. | ®@ e
With only the Betas left to play,|¢ CLEANERS ;
(a team the Delts downed 4-1) the ° 1 Hour Dry Cleaning *
KAs seem to be odds-on favorites] @ °
to take the title. e COMPLETE SHIRT SERVICE °
ae eeeccsocecoseossooescesse
eeeseececeeceeseseescecs
e *
° ROBERTE.LEE §
*
°
: BARBERSHOP ° Sealtest
=
e OPEN fr 8:00-5:30 e
: a : Dairy Products
CCC CO SCO OOOOEEEOOOEEEe
Coecceccoescceseseeseece Sealtest ice cream
° : Block and crushed ice
* raditi «
e Traditiona ca Party mixes—Ice Cold
: W&L BLAZER 3
; With University Crest 2 *
° and Buttons 2
¢ The >
$ COLLEGE TOWN MAPLE-ROCK
* . .
° Shop$ Distributors, Inc.
$ Student Charge Accounts . HO 3-2168
° Welcomed 4
* *
s
eeeceeecoeooesoooeoesesee sn TS

 

 

 

 

 

Going up for two of his near-record 36 points against RPI, Paterno (40)
drives in for a lay-up as Steve Sweitzer (30) looks on.

Centre Hands W&L Defeat
As Southwestern Cops Title

BY TOM CARPENTER
Tuesday Sports Writer
Coach Bob McHenry ended his tenure as head coach of
the Washington and Lee basketball team on a sour note as
the Generals dropped an 85-68 decision to Centre College of
Kentucky in the College Athletic Conference Tournament.
It was the Generals second defeat at the hands of the Colonels.

Southwestern surprised by winning the title. In the semi-
finals Centre walloped favored*
Washington, while Southwestern
whipped Sewanee. In the finals the
Tennessee club upset Centre for the
championship. The winners entered
with a 7-12 record.

The Generals played an excellent
game against the Colonels, except
for the fact that they seemed slug-
gish at times. They were just over-

 

powered by a better club. W&L hit
28 of 68 shots from the floor for a
percentage of 41.2, but Centre was
successful on 34 of 69 attempts for
a percentage of 49.3. The Generals
made 12 of 13 free throws, while
the winners connected on 17 of 21.
Centre had a nine-rebound edge.
(Continued on page 4)

WIN

IN THE MARLBORO

BE
ROUND-UP

PRIZES: Ist prize Portable TV. 2nd Prize Tape Recorder.

 

 

 
 
 

WHO WINS: Prizes will be awarded to any recognized Group
or individual submitting the largest number of empty

packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alphine
or Paxton.

RULES: 1. Contest open to qualified students only. 2. Empty
packages of Marlboro, 1 pt.; Parliament, 5 pts; Philip
Morris, 2 pts; Alpine, 3 pts; or Paxton, 4 pts; must be
submitted in order to qualify. 3. Closing date, April 29,
1964, 2 p.m. 4. No entries will be accepted after official
closing time. 5. Turn in wrappers at Co-op.

* MARLBORO * PARLIAMENT * ALPINE
PHILIP MORRIS * PAXTON
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Atwood’s Cold, Coulling Isn’t

(Continued from page 2)

Coulling never is. He knows why
people take Jolly Ollie courses. He
hates ROTC. He reads most of his
French in translation. He’s made up
stories about Coach Lyles. He'll
borrow your soap at the gym. He
will lend you a dime at the Co-op
even if he doesn’t know you. He’s
read Coacher in the Rye. He is a
mystery to himself or at least he
likes to think so. He’s cryed before.
At college. Slog is really a lot like
you.

But what makes Slog different—
he thinks this but actually it makes
him more like you than the real
you—is that he is tired of being “one
of ’em.” But haven’t you heard it
before? He’s nothing new. But he
said the difference was that he was
tired of it all and guys like him
use to never get tired of it. I won-
der. They probably did. What this
place needs is a kick in the butt
and he said it is finally happening.
He said the freshmen are too damn
cocky and secure. He told me that
fraternities are on the way out.

 

Monarchs Top Wrestlers
(Continued from page 3)

Old Dominion’s Robert Hogue, 5-1,
W&L lost the next three matches in
very close contests. Dick Musick
upset, 5-3, Kemble White was tied-
up and edged 3-0, and Jamie An-
drew was beaten by ODC’s captain,
Robert Gutterman, by the close
score, 5-4.

With Washington and Lee behind
9-3 in the match, Winfield pinned
his opponent in 2:40 to make the
score 9-8. W&L captain, Herb Shith,
was then upset by Richard Harris
of Old Dominion, 5-2, to make the
overall match score 12-8.

Wrestling for the first time this
season, Stewart showed fine form in
pinning Tom MeMillan in two min-
utes with a devastating cradle hold.

 

Chase, Broaddus Elected
(Continued from page 3)

Junior Wolfe had lower his 500
freestyle time before Wildrick’s ef-
fort and his record in the 200-yard
freestyle stil Istands. Co-captain-
elect Bill Broaddus and freshman
John Lunde are co-holders of the
200-yard backstroke and freshmen
Wildrick, Gary Bokinsky, Steve Les-
ter, and Taylor hold the record in
the 400-yard freestyle.

Continuing his interview, Coach
Eastman stated that, discounting
losses from next year’s team, the
1964-65 swimming team should be
his strongest to date. Freshman
Wildrick, Lunde, Taylor, Bokinsky;
sophomores, George Bokinsky, John
Lifter; and juniors Broaddus, David
Geer and Skip Chase give W&L
depth and first place potential.

 

 

DP Ughel 3

EUROPE

..--on an Open Road Under-
graduate Tour, a new and ex-
citing way to really see Europe,
meet the people. Freedom and
flexibility on a fixed budget.
Pick your own dates, stay at
charming inns, castle, hotels, See
the Europe most tourists miss. Go
by sea or air, tour the continent
by a U-Drive micro-bus.

For further information
call

JOHN SAMET
HO 3-6313

   

 

 

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately
PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

 

 

TOWN INN

ABC 5392 on and off
Sandwiches, Beverages, Dinners,
Seafood
STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
30 N. Main Street

I wonder...what did happen to
hell week? And we never have wo-
man above the first floor any more.
And the new housemother doesn’t
drink. The Hot Nuts will never re-
turn...at least Atwood says so.
And I know a guy who is staying
here during spring vacation to write
a paper. Can you imagine? He told
me tonight that we were seeing the
beginning of the end. He’s even
glad. He said integration was com-
ing, despite the no-nigger-clause.
He said the basketball team could
use a couple of big ones. He re-
minded me that the Negro students
from Hampton hardly caused com-
ment. What’s happening anyway?
What’s going on here, Mongolian
Minks? What’s become of happy
hour and the “shows”? And what's
the Golly Bridge Hunt Club up to?
Slog is apparently suffering an
identity crisis. He’s not taking notes
any more. He is wondering if you
really are happy when the bell rings
at one o'clock on Saturday. He won-
ders if there is such a thing as
intellectual responsibility. He said
he’s sick of the creeping code of
“greatguyism” which prevades this
place. He laughed at initiation.
But why should I tell you all this?
I'm graduating. I listened to him af-
ter everyone left the dining room to-
night. He didn’t each much supper.
He say’s he sick of the whole mess.
Seems like he means it too, but then
it's the middle of February. Be
spring pretty soon. Macon and the
Blueridge Parkway. Anyway, he had
probably been to the Liquid before
supper. But he said you are on the
way out. You and your goddam big
man image and all. But I'll never
know, and really, I don’t care too
much. You see, I’m graduating.
—A. G. P.

Dake

WED.-THURS.

MAGNIFICENT

Seven who
fought like
seven hundred!

BRINNER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Whe Felli Be
oheae?”

Piyoars fort

BILL BEAN
17 Court House Square

Lexington, Virginia
Phone HO 3-2141

The Prudential

INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AMERICA

® mutual life insurance company

 

 

 

 

 

POPSSOOOSSS OSS OS 00900009
%

HICKMAN’S ESSO

Se Se Ma Me Mae Masta Me Me
ee eee
I
SO ee

 

 

 

 

CENTRAL LUNCH

TRY OUR FAMOUS
SWISS BERGER

Serving food and beverages

Mon.-Thuts., 6 a.m.-12 p.m.
Fri.-Sat., 6 a.m.-1 a.m.
Sunday, 6 a.m.-12 p.m.

Telephone HO 3-2834

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Shirt Service as You Like It
Bring Your Complete Laundry to Us
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
*“Your Campus Neighbors”

Director Has ‘Serious Problem’

(Continued from page 2) one more example, there are many
In the film, you will laugh at the | a ee ae oe
point Richardson is making, and not! when seen clearly, are little more
at the way he makes it. He —"| than cheap cinematic tricks. Who
succeed in getting your sympathy. | do the actors wink at and speak to
Richardson suffers from a serious) i, the audience? We should not be
artistic problem. He is unable t0 | included as part of the work. We
use any particular style with con-| 16 there to appreciate what some
sistency, unable to properly and| atist has made, not to be active
carefully think his films through. | participants. :
He seemingly throws himself onto) Enough. Undoubtedly you will
the set each morning and does what- | enjoy the film for it is often funny.
ever his whim commands. This il- | Several scenes are wildly comic,
ustrates a distinct lack of discipline. | taken alone. I only hope that you
Altay he, appears be ull enjoy what goo in iy ed
alisshasl artes of Gee iti not be taken in by its falseness.
brick, and Antonioni, to name a few | Current Flicks
of the few who possess it. | Films in Lexington this week
I don’t mean to slight his movie! worth seeing are “The Magnificent
completely, but it is difficult, in real-| Seven,” an entertaining western by
izing what his intentions were, not! John Sturges, the make of “The
to point out that he fails. For} Great Escape”; “The Sporting Life,”
'in which there is a performance by
| Richard Harris, for which he re-
Hoopsters Lose Tourney |ceived the Cannes Film Festival
(Continued from page 3) | award for best actor; in Lynchburg—
Lou Paterno was high man for| “Seven Days in May,” with Lan-
W&L with 20 points. Dick Livings- caster and Douglas, about a military
ton and Howard Martin added 11) plot to overthrow the United States
each, while Don Wallis chipped in! givernment; “Soldier in the Rain”
10. For the winners Mel Borland| with Gleason and McQueen, which
was high with 20. Julian Palmer and|I have already reviewed; in Roa-
Gary Wright had 18 each, while) noke—“Love with the Proper
Mike Marks and Danny Walts added | Stranger,” which should get nomina-
10 apiece. Walts, Marks, and Halj tions for both its stars, Natalie
Smith controlled the backboards. Wood and Steve McQueen.

 

 

 

On Campus Max Shulman
(Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” :
and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek’’.)

 

 
    

THE SLOW RUSH

Illustrated below is the membership pin of a brand-new na-
tional fraternity called Signa Phi Nothing. To join Signa Phi
Nothing and get this hideous membership pin absolutely free,
simply take a pair of scissors, cut out the illustration, and paste
it on your chest.

Let me hasten to state that I do not recommend your joining
Signa Phi Nothing. The only thing I recommend in this column
is Marlboro Cigarettes, as any honest man would who likes
good tobacco and a good filter, whose heart is quickened by a
choice of soft pack or Flip-Top Box, and who gets paid every
week for writing this column.

Tam frankly hard put to think of any reason why you should
join Signa Phi Nothing. Some people, of course, are joiners by
nature; if you are one such, I am bound to tell you there are
any number of better organizations for you to join—the Cosa
Nostra, for example, or the Society for the Placing of Water
Troughs in Front of Equestrian Statues.

      

de a

Ge

 

Cutd cut at Cele it ot vor lest

But if you insist on joining Signa Phi Nothing, let me give
you several warnings. First off, it is the only fraternity which
admits girls. Second, there is no pledge period; each new mem-
ber immediately goes active. Perhaps “inactive” is a more ac-
curate word: there are no meetings, no drives, no campaigns,
no sports, no games, no dues, no grip, and no house.

The only thing Signa Phi Nothing has in common with other
fraternities is a fraternity hymn. In fact, two hymns were sub-
mitted to a recent meeting of the national board of directors
(none of whom attended). The first hymn goes;

Signa Phi Nothing,
Shining star,

How we wonder

Tf you are.

The second hymn, rather more poetic in content, is to be

sung to the tune of Also Sprach Zarathustra:
A Guernsey's a cow,
A road ts a lane,
When you're eating chow,
Remember the mein.

Pending the next meeting of the national board of directors
(which will never be held) members are authorized to sing
either hymn. Or, for that matter, Frenesi.

Perhaps you are wondering why there should be such a fra-
ternity as Signa Phi Nothing. I can give you an answer—an
answer with which you cannot possibly disagree: Signa Phi
Nothing fills a well-needed gap.

Are you suffering from mental health? Is logic distorting
your thinking? Is ambition encroaching on your native sloth?
Is your long-cherished misinformation retreating before a sea
of facts? In short, has education caught up with you?

If so, congratulations. But spring is upon us and the sap is
rising, and the mind looks back with poignant longing to the
days when it was a puddle of unreason.

If—just for a moment—you want to recapture those care-
less vaporings, that warm, squishy confusion, then join Signa
Phi Nothing and renew your acquaintance with fecklessness.
We promise nothing, and, by George, we deliver it!

@ 1064 Max Shulman
* * *
We, the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, promise smoking en-
jJoyment, and we think you’ ll think we deliver it—in all fifty
states of this Union, Marlboro Country is where you are.

 

 

 

(Continued from page 2)

ter of the leader of the Confederate
military effort, we see that in many
ways he was very advanced fer his
times. He lived in a time when dis-
crimination against Negroes was an
accepted fact. Even Abraham Lin-
coln, in his inaugural address, said,
“I have no purpose...to interfere
with the institution of Slavery...
I believe I have no right to do so;
and I have no inclination to do so.”
Yet, General Lee had seen fit to
free his own slaves long before Lin-
coln was elected President. And at
a time when Grant still had slaves,
General Lee was kneeling with a
Negro before a chanal rail in rec-
ognition of the equality of all men
before God. It is partially because
of his forward-looking nature that
Robert E. Lee is still honored as
not only a great general, but a
great man.

We at Washington and Lee are
fortunate in having this man as one
of the contributors to our school
and tradition. Through the years,
his contribution has been singled out
as probably the most significant
and certainly the most dear. But we
at Washington and Lee have certain-
ly forsaken at least some of the tra-
dition of this great man. He sought
to make this institution one which
would lead the South and the nation
in all phases of education. But we

‘We Have Forsaken Traditions’

, have been unable to follow his lead.
We find ourselves, not in a posi-
tion of leadership, but of backward-
ness. We have not taken a stand
recognizing the equality of men, we
have not endeavored to lead our
society in the Christian tradition.
These were things dear to the heart
of Lee, as is evidenced by his tak-
ing stands which were far ahead
of his time. But we have grown
small. We have let pettiness re-
place greatness. We have replaced
wisdom with ignorance, and prog-
ress with stagnation. We have for-
saken the tradition which Lee, in
supreme sublimity, established.

There are those who say, “I think
that Negroes should get a break but
I think they’re going about it the
wrong way.” Let these people show
that they are sincere, that they are
willing to act on their beliefs. Let
them act in the tradition of Lee, a
man who could take an intelligent
and courageous stand.

It has been said that our tradi-
tions are falling. I do not know if
this is true. But I can see that one
tradition is dead. It has been killed
by pettiness and fear. Let those who
moan the passing of the Old South
in the worst sense of the word con-
sider the entombment of some of the
Old South in the best sense of the
word. We see tradition forsaken,

 

and truly we should mourn,

 

Brace yourself—here come the

your formal clothes, right down

shirts. They’ve got a built-in,

DETA

crease,

 

i-risers, to avoid charges of in
su sit down!
oa

‘

VN ‘Ql
aes ' for the

Mg jos Sy

    

 

‘CAMPUS
FASHIONS

BY 0. E. SCHOEFFLER, ESQUIRE’S Fashion Director

 

 

 
     

holidays, with their feasts, fetes

and festivities! And it’s not a moment too soon to start organizing

to the smallest detail, so you’ll be

ready for any and all invitations to greet this gala season!

YOU CAN PLAY IT COOL—no matter how perspiration-prone
you are! Paradoxical as it may seem, the addition of synthetic
fibers has subtracted an incredible amount of weight from the
standard worsted-and-mohair blends of dress suitings! Those man-
made miracle fibers will do you another favor when it comes to

spic-and-span crispness that has

nothing to do with old-fashioned, suit-of-armor starch! And some-
thing else your shirts should shun is the old-fashioned riverboat
gambler look. That fancy shirt-front with the lace and ruffles
should be worn only for a TV guest shot—flat, pristine pleats are
the order of the day in smart circles!

ILS—ALWAYS DETAILS!

Exactly. For instance, studs and cufflinks
should be dark—black pear! or something
in the same spectrum, and as simple as
possible. No Maharaja of Baroda effects
allowed (unless, of course, you’re the
Maharaja of Baroda!). The wearing of
the vest, silk and backless, is on the in-

while cummerbunds are still wide-

ly popular. In either case, it’s a nice touch
to match it to your tie. This can be done
in a variety of fabrics—silk barathea,
satin, brocade—and in one color. Black.
And look for a revival of the more gener-
ously proportioned butterfly bow tie.

MIND YOUR MILEAGE—when you pick out your formal foot-
wear. Make sure they’re comfortable—mobility is better than
moanin’ low, once you get to the party! Properly, they should be
patent leather, plain-toe, in either a 2-eyelet tie or the easy slip-on
»yump with a flat grosgrain bow. Equally acceptable is the light-
veight plain-toe style in black calf, polished to a high gloss. Lus-
rous silk or nylon flat-knit black hose are correct—preferably

decent exposure of hairy leg when

ON UP YOUR OVERCOAT—

se gala evenings grow chill—to say

; nothing of the cold gray dawns that fol-
{ low! A black raglan-shoulder coat in ¢
\ hed +» mohair blend, Bal-collared in black velvet,
» + is a connoisseur’s choice, A smart alterna-
| A it tive is the Natural Shoulder topcoat in
7: (" exford gray or black, with fly-front. Th
fine finishing touches include a white silk
| muffler and rray mocha gloves—-slip-on or
button sty
} } ,

ou’d be the model of a modern

, Esquire, Ine.
