 

Rin

VOLUME LXXXII_, NUMBER}

 

s-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia September 9, 1982

~
THe ee ce LINIVERSIT®
" nl f& EE UNIVENS
SHINGTON & LE
a VA. 24450

LEXINGTON,

SEP 10 1982

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tech provost wins presidency

By Todd Smith

No one was surprised when he entered the C-school classroom for
the press conference. The word was already in the press that this
trim, freckled man in a blue blazer had been offered the presidency
of Washington and Lee.

Speaking clearly and cautiously, John D. Wilson, 51, accepted,
and outlined why he was ‘‘totally committed to liberal arts educa-
tion.’”’

“We are born in a sliver of time and place and culture. We come
out of backgrounds that are circumscribed by genetics and by en-
vironment. We live our 70 to 80 years on the planet in that narrow
cocoon of culture and experience. And all that we know of ourselves
and our world if we lived only that life would be very, very
parochial, indeed,” Wilson said.

‘‘And what I see the liberal arts and science doing is permitting
us to enlarge that life, to enter different times, different cultures,
live different lives. Hamlet’s fictional life is every bit as relevant as
Elizabeth I’s historical life,”’ he said.

The official announcement came at the press conference Wednes-
day, Aug. 1, from James M. Ballengee, rector of the board of
trustees. Wilson was elected that morning by a special meeting of
the board in Northen Auditorium.

However, the news leaked at Virginia Polytechnic Institute,
where Wilson is Provost and Executive Vice President. On Satur-
day, Aug. 28, Charles Hite wrote in the Roanoke Times & World
News that Wilson had gotten the nod.

Hite called W&L to confirm his story before running it. ‘“‘We told
him we would neither confirm nor deny the story,’’ a W&L official
said. But had Hite gotten wrong information, ‘‘we would have said,
‘you better go back and check your information.’ ”

By the time the trustees saw the article, they had been warned
that it would be coming out. Many already knew that Wilson would
probably be the choice.

“It was generally understood that Wilson was the top candidate
from the start,’ said Frank Parsons, assistant to the president.
Yet, the selection process was a diligent and legitimate one, Par-
sons said.

‘T’ve heard nothing to suggest that this was a preconceived
choice or that the review process was just an exercise. No, it was
too close,’ Parsons said.

Over 200 candidates were considered in the review process,

 

l

John D. Wilson, right, answers a reporter’s question on coeduca-
tion at a press conference Wednesday, Sept. 1. James Ballengee,
right, announced at the conference that the W&L board of trustees

which started when President Robert E.R. Huntley announced in

February that he would step down after a massive ten-year

development program that raised $70 million for W&L. Huntley has
held the post since 1968 and has said that he wishes to leave office at
the end of the calendar year.

Wilson pians to begin his duties on Feb. 1, 1983.

Wilson is a figure not unknown in this area. The Roanoke Times &
World News ran an editorial .Jednesday noting Wilson’s skill in
handling reporters’ questions at the press conference a week
before:

“That’s not surprising, since Wilson is an experienced ad-
ministrator with a thorough knowledge of higher education in
Virginia and in the nation.

“For the past seven years, he has been the No. 2 man at Tech
behind President William Lavery. Wilson has been the chief officer
responsible for the university’s academic life.”

Wilson has turned down the presidency of Michigan State Univer-
sity, his alma mater, and a chancellorship position at the Universi-
ty of Virginia. Before accepting the position at VPI, Wilson had
been president of Wells College (for women) in Aurora, N.Y., for
seven years.

A native of Lapeer, Mich., Wilson received a B.A. degree in
history with high honor from Michigan State, where he was elected
to both Phi Kappa Phi, an honorary scholarship society, and Phi
Alpha Theta (a history honor) society. He was also president of his
student body.

At Michigan State, Wilson was a standout athlete, playing defen-
sive halfback on the 1952 Michigan State team that won the national
championship.

Following his graduation, Wilson attended Oxford University in
England as a Rhodes Scholar. There he received his M.A.

His administrative experience began in 1959 when he served as
assistant to the vice president of academic affairs and then assis-
tant to the president of State University of New York. In 1963 he
returned to Michigan State as director of the honors college.

Wilson received his Ph.D. in Elizabethan Literature in 1967 at
Michigan State, where between 1965 and 1968, Wilson taught
English.

Wilson and his wife Anne Veronica have four children: Stephen, |

22; Anthony, 20; Patrick, 18; and Sara, 14.

     

elected Wilson to succeed President Robert E.R. Huntley. (photo
by Pat Hinely, W&L)

 

 

 

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

Inside

 

° Police

trials end:
Seven convicted,
two acquitted,p.3

®Wilson on

liberal arts: p.

‘Quality means a

4

first rate faculty’

°A Ring-tum
what? p.2

° Minks on the
rush trail:

James Henderson:

In Memoriam

In all flourishing institutions,
there are people who keep the
mechanisms _ functioning
smoothly and in balance. They
are usually off-stage, unknown
to most participants. But
without them the machinery
jerks along and even stalls.

Such a person was James
Henderson, who worked in the
Co-op building. Most of his wak-
ing hours for the past 26 years
were spent within the maze of
its complex architecture. He
and only he, knew where
everything was; he delivered
supplies and equipment on time
to the proper locations; and, ex-
pert mechanic that he was, he
fixed everything from cars to
clocks that quit.

James was independent of
thought, witty and, on occasion,
humorously cantankerous. He
was a kind man. He died where
he had thouroughly lived. We in
the Co-op building don’t know
what we will do without him.

Betty E. Munger, manager
W&L Bookstore

 
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982

Opinion

 

 

 

 

Editors of the Ring-tum Phi for 1900-1901

What the hell’s a Ring-tum Phi*

(Reprinted from the Ring-
tum Phi of Dec. 5, 1967.)

Come back with us now to the
days when telephones (Lex-
ington had all of 68 of them, an
advertisement boasted) were
known as “up-to-date electric
call bells.”’ 1897.

Back when stealing a bell-
clapper was called ‘‘a naughty

one’s frolic,’ in the same year:

that the New York Post confer-
red on Lexington (we’re
serious) the title ‘‘Athens of the
South’’ — there came into being
a small weekly newspaper,
published ‘‘by the students for
the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity community.”’

They named it after the most
popular of that University’s
football cheers:
Phi.’’

“Coincident with the ad-
ministration of President
Wilson begins the career of a
new publication at Washington
and Lee, the Ring-tum Phi,”’
noted the Collegian, a
magazine. ‘“‘The Ring-tum Phi
is a weekly journal and presents
a pleasing appearance. It meets
a distinct need in the University
and relieves the Collegian of
what formerly has tended to
clog and retard.”

Literary Magazine

“The Collegian is primarily a
literary magazine, and when
the editors heretofore were
forced to cram in a limitless
number of locals, they always
bewailed the dismal incongrui-
ty. Henceforth, we rejoice to
say, the Collegian is freed'from
matters of this kind, and will
not be compelled to try to serve
two ends at once....

“Gentlemen of the Ring-tum
Phi, you have our best wishes.
Gentlemen of the Ring-tum Phi,
we give you our sincerest
thanks. Students of W. and L.,
we congratulate you on the ad-

“Ring-tum-

vent of the long needed week-
ly!”

The year was 1897. The
Southern Collegian was still a
high-quality magazine, and was
published by the Graham
Literary Society. The Ring-tum

Phi was supposed to be a

somewhat lighter, perhaps even
ribald, complement to the Col-
legian.

Eighteen and ninety-seven.
The year the football coach had
to send away for a special
noseguard ‘“‘to protect the col-
ossal proboscis which accom-
panies Mr. Fitzhugh’s
countenance.” (‘‘Mr. Fitzhugh
was a student; everybody then
was a Mister, Doctor, Professor
or Reverend.”’)

Scandalous Verse

Eighteen and ninety-seven.
The year of the Great ‘‘Hell’’
Scandal. It seems the very first
editor-in-chief, George
Houston, in the fourth issue of
the neophyte newspaper,
published a column of ‘‘Football
Songs,” one of which concluded
with this verse:

Each other’s back, boys,
Has got a knack, boys,
For making gains, sir,
Round the end.

And it’s asin, sir,

For Oberlin, sir (Oberlin being
a W&L player),

To buck the VMI boys’ line so
awful hard.

Then join the yell, boys,
And yell like hell, boys,
Sure enough.

To W&L U., boys,
And football, too, boys,
Let’s give a rousing, rumbling,
roaring football yell.
Ring-tum Phi, stickeri bum,
&c, &c.
Well, hell broke loose. The
next issue, an incensed letter-
to-the-editor writer (nothing

new under the sun) said:

“There appeared in the col-
umns of the Ring-tum Phi, last
week, a song which, to the
thoughtful person, had very lit-
tle to recommend it....The only
thing that I can see that would
have recommended it to the
editorial eye is the little smack
of naughtiness which makes the
first rhyme in the last verse.

“The Editor seems to be filled
with pride to even know the
author; he puts the verse in the
first column of his newspaper,
and writes an editorial com-
mending it as ‘especially good.’
He says the words tire the voice
very little.

“Now everyone who knows
anything of the subject, knows
that the sound of that ‘h’ has a
very rasping effect on the vocal
chords. How much better it
would have been had the line
read: ‘And yell right well,
boys.’ It would have sounded
better, been easier on the voice,
and would have saved the
writer and the Editor from
showing off their weakness.

“It can be admitted that, to
some eyes, there is something
worthy of admiration in a dark,
purple crime, but to bow before
a sinlet like this is weakness
personified.

“In the future let me suggest
that the Editor follow the path
of virtue. He will not only find it
pleasant, but may keep from
showing his lack of taste.
(Signed) -R.”’

‘R’’ intimidated Mr.
Houston, Who wouldn’t be in-
timidated if he were editing a
brand-new paper, that nobody,
not even students, had ever
heard of, named the Ring-tum
Phi, and somebody comes along
and accused him of printing ‘‘a
sinlet”’ on his front page?

 

 

Anew Phi

In 1897, W&L had a new president — named Wilson — and a new
weekly journal, the Ring-tum Phi. Eighty-five years later, we have
another new president — named Wilson — and a new Phi.

The small changes are already evident; the real impact of our
new approach will grow throughout the fall term. This is the
earliest Phi in recent memory, the humble product of News Editor
John Cleghorn, Business Manager Steve Perry, Managing Editor
Evans Attwell and myself. Though meager, I hope it shows our
commitment to a professional graphic approach as well as our en-
thusiasm.

In September’s issues, look for: ,

FEATURES — Under Features Editor Scott Tilley, the new
Phi will have more interviews than ever. Our faculty, alumni and
student body offer limitless potential for interesting personality
profiles. It’s important for you to suggest subjects (thanks, but
we’re already working on President Huntley). Tilley can be reach-
ed at 463-6000.

NEWS — Of course the most important aspect of the Phi is its
coverage of campus events. News Editor Cleghorn has the most dif-
ficult job of all — writing as well as managing the reporting staff.
Cleghorn can be reached at 463-7568. Assisting him is Rick Swagler,
who will cover the Executive Committee.,

COLUMNS — All members of the W&L community are in-
vited to write columns. Humor pieces are most eagerly sought.
Political opinions should somehow relate to our school, our age
group, this region, etc. Those who remember Betty Munger’s col-
umn on Fancy Dress last year will be pleased to see that she is
again writing for us.

This year we have abandoned the anonymous editorial that ran
on the left side of every editorial page. Such anonymous editorials
encourage reckless writing and imply that there is some agree-
ment among Phi editors on a topic (which there never is). In its
place will be signed editorials, like this one, by Cleghorn, myself
and our experienced reporters.

However, this format provides ample room for students and pro-
fessors with something to say about Washington and Lee.

THE PHI LITERARY SUPPLEMENT — This esoteric title
applies to a monthly page of book reviews and commentary on the
arts at Washington and Lee.

What we are trying to do is get you involved in the newspaper and
thereby more involved in the school. The new Phi exists only to
strengthen the sense of unity that pervades W&L in the good years
and has, perhaps, evaded us in recent years.

We realized last year that people were turning to our editorial
page hoping to see someone embarrassed or some committee har-
pooned. Under Editor-in-Chief Bill Whalen, the Phi took a less an-
tagonistic stance toward the Executive Committee than the year
before. We hope that E.C. subcommittees will take advantage of
the Phi as a forum and a way of reaching potential members.

The Phi is not giving up the aggressive approach to news that
seniors remember from the days of editors Randy Smith and John
Billmyre. We will continue to follow every story until all the facts
are on the table, as we did last year with the Interfraternity Council
study of a possibly delayed Rush.

Our first priority, finally, is accesibility. If you feel you can con-
tribute to the Phi, and want to, let us know. There will be an
organizational meeting for writers and photographers in Fairfax
Lounge in the Student Center Tuesday, Sept. 14, at7 p.m.

If you'd like to talk to me about the Phi, I can be reached in our of-
fice (463-9111, ext. 373 or in room 129 of Davis Dormitory
(463-9306). You are already involved. Make it count for something.

Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The

 

» Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum

Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

7

Me ee ee Wi eee Todd Smith
PUOMIOES TEDBOIIS occ cece cc cecedadoccecesasesccovceseubecsss Steve Perry
eee ee Evans Attwell
Pe INN 6 60.06.0065 055227 080000 CROCE EETTIi CO) Oat bcdas John Cleghorn
POE ONO i's io eee Fes CONNIE eeeeeeredeevees G. Bruce Potter
Pe MN ks Kick) ek ess sth ences B. Scott Tilley
IIE o.oo. 9.0:0.0.0:0005855 0) 00000000 0058058888 Rick Swagler, Bill Roberts,

Charles Alcorn

 

 

 

 
Seven convicted as police trials end

by John Cleghorn

Following the indictments of
thirteen acting and former
members of the Lexington
police force last spring for
alleged involvement in a police
theft ring, trials have continued
throughout the summer
resulting in six former officers
serving jail sentences, one of-
ficer on probation, two officers
being tried and acquitted, two
other cases ending in hung
juries and two cases being drop-
ped by prosecuting com-
monwealth attorney Beverly C.
“John” Read.

“The remaining charges
against five former and
suspended officers were drop-
ped in the Rockbridge circuit
court last Wednesday and no
other charges are expected to
be pressed.

Read explained, saying, ‘‘The
results in those trials make it
clear that convictions cannot be
obtained in the remaining five
cases.”

Read’s final statment to the
circuit court contained the
following rationale for ending
the trials: “It would be fun-
damentally unfair and expen-
sive and unfortunate for our
community to continue the pro-
secutions for the sole purpose of
placing criminal evidence in a
public forum.

“It would be better. and more
efficient to remit these matters
to Chief Kirby and the City of
Lexington, and to Sheriff
Reynolds and the County of
Rockbridge for administrative
disposition. Such ad-
ministrative action does not re-
quire ‘proof beyond a
reasonable doubt’ as in a
criminal prosecution; further-
more, acts of criminal wrongdo-
ing may be considered even
though those crimes were bar-
red for criminal prosecution.

“I shall make available all
material evidence in my posses-
sion to assist them in this task
and hope they will see fit to read
all the statements from the in-
vestigation, to interview key
witnesses and to use available
techniques, such as polygraphs,
to insure that only those officers

 

Lexington
Lighting

Your

 

Study Lamp
Headquarters

5 W. Washington St.
463-9338

 

 

 

 

 

 

fully qualified are reinstated as
law enforcement officers.”’

Of the five cases involving ac-
ting officers, two ended in ac-
quittals, two in hung juries and
one in a conviction.

Suspended officer William
Knick, tried for twelvc charges
of involvement with the alleged
theft ring including statutory
burglary, receiving stolen
goods, conspiracy, grand
larceny and petit larceny,was
found not guilty last week.
Knick has since shown intent to
resign from the force, chiefly
for medical reasons.

Officer J.K. Colbert, indicted
for petit larceny for allegedly
stealing a car battery, was also
found not guilty this month and
will be investigated for
reinstatement to the force.

Suspended officers Tony
Clark and Richard Wright, both
indicted on charges of statutory
burglary, conspiracy, and petit
larceny will also be considered
for reinstatement to the police
force after their trials ended in
hung juries.

The fifth acting police officer
to be indicted, Donald Stub-
blefield, was convicted on
charges of petit larceny and
was sentenced to a_ twelve
month jail term.

Although Lexington Police
Chief James Kirby is on vaca-
tion this week, acting police
chief Lieutenant B.M. Beard
was reached for questioning.
Beard said that the investiga-
tion of suspended officer Col-
bert is already underway.
Beard was unsure how long the
investigations would continue.

State police investigators
have offered to supply a lie
detector machine, or poly-
graph, to be used in the in-
vestigations but Beard did not
know if Chief Kirby is planning
to make it a part of his in-
vestigations.

In the case involving Carl

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

r CRAFTS PLUS, INC. A

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES i
Open Mon.-Fri. 10-5; Sat. 10-4 4
4 31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355 i

Ba car cscs a ss OD DS OD DD OD em Ee ea em en

Emore of the Rockbridge Coun-
ty Sheriff's Department, who
was indicted for allegedly
receiving stolen goods, the
charges were dropped, as were
the charges against Lexington
Police officer Timmy Coleman.
In each of the cases against
former Lexington police of-
ficers a conviction resulted.and
a jail term ensucd,Jack Purvis,
John Moore, Danny Moore,
Wayne Rhodenizer,and Marvin
Hamilton, a state trooper, all
received sentences ranging
from eight months to two five-
year’prison terms for crimes of

conspiracy. ;
Members of the Buena Vista

Police Force and the Rock-
bridge County Sheriff’s Depart-
ment have been working in
their off time to assist the short-
handed Lexington force while
the suspended officers have
undergone trials and investiga-
tions.

The size of the Lexington
Police force is usually around 14
members according to Lieute-
nant Beard. At the time of the
initial indictments, the force
numbered 13 officers, five of
which were indicted.

Former Lexington officer
Barry Flint, whose cooperation
with the state police in-
vestigators began the long in-
vestigations into the theft ring
last spring, received immunity
from some of the charges
against him and is presently on
probation.

When asked if he was
satisfied with the end of the
criminal prosecutions Lex-
ington Mayor Charles Phillips
replied, ‘‘There’s no question
that we’re pleased with the end
of the investigations. It has
been a long and difficult six
months for everybody.”’

Mayor Phillips noted however
that the ordeal will not be over
until the police reinstatement is
finished and the police force is
at full strength.

The College Town Shop

“We Need You”

See us for a super selection in:

¢ Long Sleeve Shirts — Muted Plaids
¢ Washable Cotton Cords: $27%-$30
¢ Button Down Chamois Shirts

The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982, Page 3

SPREE aH IE RP er ARN SE EIEN PTE PE ONSEN TSP ESS OE SEA TE SOI ESE A a A RR Te ern
SSE ELIT ERS RES ELON ELE NE EN ELE LE LONE TEL TER ION IE TE I REEL NATE EMER ATES ESI I NOTE BN TEGAN EER ER RETR HE

 

 

Reeves Center opens

“The China Trade: Currents
and Cross Currents of Taste,”
and several of the sessions will

Four days of private lectures
will accompany Saturday’s
opening of the newly renovated
and renamed Reeves Center for
Research and Exhibition of
Porcelain and Paintings.

The opening ceremony will
begin at 1:45 p.m. on the front
steps of what was Tucker Hall
Annex until last year. The
building, which dates back to
the 1840s, sits on the north end
of the Colonnade.

The lectures are part of a
four-day meeting of the
Decorative Arts Trust which,
beginning today, is expected to
draw 200 students collectors,
curators and dealers of
decorative art.

The theme of the meeting is

involve discussions of
Washington and Lee’s Reeves
Collection of Chinese export
porcelain.

The Reeves Center houses the
study collection of 18th, 19th and
20th century ceramics given to
Washington and Lee in 1967 by
Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin D.
Reeves of Rhode Island. Reeves
was a 1927 graduate of the W&L
law school.

Paintings and watercolors by
Mrs. Reeves, who signed most
of her paintings with her
maiden name, Louise Her-
reshoff, will hang in the center.

 

 

 

Calendar

Friday, Sept. 10.
All Day — Upperclassmen Matriculate: Payne Hall.
Saturday, Sept. 11
1:45 p.m. — Opening Ceremonies: Reeves Center.
Sunday, Sept. 12
12 - 5 p.m. — Skylark Open House and Family Picnic: for the

Dniversity Community.

Monday, Sept. 13

Undergraduate classes begin.

Through Oct. 4 — ‘The American Scene,” Early 20th Century
Prints from the Museum of Modern Art. DuPont Gallery.

111 W. Nelson St.

¢ New Colors in Rugby Shirts

—HOUSE CHARGE ACCOUNTS—VISA— MASTER CHARGE—

“We Want You”

DL44.4.4.4.4.4.4.5.4. 4.2
POO OOOO OCC COC S

$6344.4.4.4.5.4.4.44.4.5.4.2
OOOO CCC CCC CCC CS

 

S66 LDA44444.44.4.4.4.4 4444.4...
SS SSS PSC CC CSCO C OOOO PS
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982

 

Transcript of Wilson press conference

Reproduced here
is the first half of
a transcript of
John D. Wilson’s
remarks ata
news conference
Wednesday, Sept.
1, at which he was
named to succeed
President Robert
E.R. Huntley at
Washington and
Lee University.

Space and dead-
line restrictions
demand that the
rest of the
Wilson’s remarks
be run ata later
date.

“IT needn’t take long to tell those of you who are here how
gratified I am, how very pleased the whole Wilson family is, to have
this invitation extended to us. We accept with great pleasure, witha
sense of adventure and hope for the future. It’s a venerable, great
institution, and we’re really deeply appreciative of the chance to be
associated with it.”’

“The transition from Blacksburg to Lexington is a 90-minute
ransition by U.S. 81. It will take us some time, however, to make
hat move, and I fully look forward to being in residence here
myself, with my wife and my daughter coming back and forth for
the spring until we can all be together as soon as Sarah finishes that
first year in high school. So we look forward to it very much in-

Question: Dr. Wilson, with the apparently declining revenue
coming out of the federal government student aid programs, do you
see doing anything to boost student aid programs here at W&L
itself?

Dr. Wilson: Yes, well I think it is a matter of serious concern. The
escalating cost of private education which we’ve experienced over
the past 20 years — we hope, for one, Charles (Hite, Roanoke Times
& World News), that that will be able to taper off just a bit — but
there is no more important side of an endowment portfolio of a
private institution than its scholarship endowment.”

“I’m not, I’ll be frank to say, especially acquainted yet with the
alignment in the Washington and Lee endowment, but I think stu-
dent aid has got to be a priority. We have to make the distinctive
educational opportunity that this institution represents available to
young men of talent, and to try to do that without special concern
for socio-economic conditions. And that does mean that student
financial aid will be an important part of the future, as it has been
of the past.”

Question: Washington and Lee is in a very competitive position
as far as faculty salaries. Do you see the university being able to
continue that in the future? You’re coming off a very successful
fund-raising campaign. Are you going to be in pretty good shape for
that, do you think?

Dr. Wilson: Charles. you’re asking questions that are prophetic
in character. I certainly hope so. There could be nothing more im-
portant than maintaining the quality of this faculty. It’s an extraor-
dinary faculty. I made as many discreet inquiries as I could on my
end, without making it apparent to the Roanoke Times that I’d been
extended the possibility of an invitation here, about the quality of
the faculty, because this, obviously, is the starting point.
Washington and Lee can be very, very proud of the teaching men
and women — the scholar teachers — who have been assembled
here. And to attract successors and to retain those currently on this
staff will be the first priority of the university. And I’’m sure that’s
going to take increasing effort, increasing endowment.”

“I’m afraid that Dr. Huntley is going to be a very difficult man to
follow. Everyone in this room appreciates that. Everyone in higher
education appreciates that. The 67 million dollars was an extraor-
dinary, successful accomplishment for this university, with the
board (of trustees) and Bob, Farris (Hotchkiss, director of develop-
ment) and all others, faculty, who made that possible. I fear it can’t
stop, that that challenge will be here. It’s been before this institu-
tion for over 200 years and it will continue to be a responsibility. I
will have to make such contributions as I can. But we’ll never be

we +

— MUSIC THIS WEEK —

Thurs.
Fri.
Sat.

The Monarchs
Halls of Grass

Charisma
463-9331

 

free of the obligation to provide the financial base for a first rate in-
stitution.”

“There has developed of late a literature of euphoria about hard
times. I think it’s — I maybe put that badly — but as we look at
demographic decline and the potential decline in enrollments in
private institutions, and as the federal government has con-
spicuously withdrawn from some elements of support of higher
education, and retrenchment and reallocation and so on become
the watchwords of higher education, there has developed a kind of
counter-theme of ‘Oh, good, this is a wonderful opportunity to con-
centrate upon quality, that we don’t have to worry about quantity
anymore.”’

‘7 think there’s a terrible bit of self-deception involved in that,
because, unless we redefine quality in some superficial way, we
cannot escape the fact that quality costs money.”’

“Quality means, in the Washington and Lee context, a first-rate
faculty, it means first-rate students, who when necessary can be
helped with financial aid, it means good equipment in our
laboratories, it means a library acquisition budget that makes
sense, it means a civilized faculty-student ratio, so that teaching
and learning can go forward, it means maintaining a campus of ex-
traordinary beauty and historical significance — and these things
are not cheap. You cannot do this while resources are decilining.
We have a first obligation to protect that kind of quality. And that
will continue to ask of us all extraordinary support for a very
distinctive institution that warrants it.”

Question: How do you envision your role at Washington and Lee
and the direction in which Washington and Lee will move in the
future, after the takeover?

Dr. Wilson: Well, my first obligation and my first pleasure will be
to come to know the people of much better than I now do. I hope,
over the course of the fall, to make visits on weekends when I can to
become acquainted with the administrative officers, the staff of the
university, and especially to begin the task of coming to know the
faculty, and to know the work of individual members of the faculty
and to get a sense of the rhythm of the place. I don’t come to this
university with some blueprint in my back pocket. It would be a
presumptuous act to suppose that I know the future or that I can
predict the future of this university.’’

“I think here we have the great resource of 200 years and more of
tradition, of a sense of quality, of a sense of style, and the first
obligation will be to protect that, to make sure that does not erode.”

“But in terms of developing the intellectual resources of the
university, what new fields will come about — you know, intellec-
tual work is hard to predict. It’s awfully hard to say today that if ac-
quatic ecology, 10 or 15 years ago, was an exciting subject, what
tomorrow’s exciting subject will be. I have some notions about that,
the faculty will have some notions about that, and part of the task of
a university administration is to sense that, to try to sense the good
people, the good minds, who have the ideas that will shape the
future, and then to make sure, in quiet ways, the resources are
there to cultivate them.”’

“It’s kind of a simple kerosene theory of university adminisira-
tion, perhaps: if you see a bright spot, throw kerosene on it, step
back. But in a way I think that’s truly what we ought to be about.”

“The university administration can serve best when it aids in the
recruitment and retention of a first-rate faculty and student body,

/

Welcome New & Returning Students

ns p

$

TRAVEL
Seven ine

NO CHARGE FOR
ANY SERVICES

19 SOUTH MAIN
LEXINGTON, VA.
463-2197

For all your travel arrangements; ca
Lexington’s professional travel agenc
The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982, Page 5

Sf PIERS SS REEL IOS I LOANS LOSE SELLE NEEDS SELLE EES ELLE LLL LALLA LEE DEE LEE L ERLE LL LA LALBBDLL.LALLERL ALPEN LLBLLIALE LAAN LE LEAL LIE
i CA GE ESE TET OES TL EELS SRE TENE EOL IE LIE LEE LES LILLIES LEE SELLE LEP DEEL LLL PELL LL LLL SELL IDEALS SSE SAAS ABELL LIE EE

and then spending most of its time removing impediments to the
work of those crucial constituencies of the university. I have some
general notions about where I think some exciting work will be go-
ing forward, but I’d rather wait, frankly, until I get a sense of the
faculty’s sense of that before we predict which way we might go.”’

Question: Dr. Wilson, W and L has a distinguished liberal arts
tradition. How do you see yourself fitting into that tradition?

Dr. Wilson: Well, 1 wouldn’t be here at all if I weren’t entirely
committed to a liberal arts education. I took my undergraduate
degree in history, with special interest in English and Russian
history. I did graduate work abroad and then in this country in
English literature. I think I know what the sciences are about, in a
generalist way, and I do include the sciences when I talk about the
liberal disciplines, and they do play a crucial role in the liberal
education of young people.”

“T think the sense of conviction I have about the value of liberal
arts comes out of what I would express, perhaps, as a peculiar,
maybe even the vicarious, the vicarious character of those fields.”’

‘‘We are born, ina sliver of time and space and culture. We come
out of backgrounds that are circumscribed by genetics and by en-
vironment. We live our 70 to 80 years on the planet in that cocoon of
culture and experience. And all that we know, of ourselves and the
world, if we lived only that life, would be very, very parochial in-
deed. And what I see the liberal arts and sciences as doing, at least
in one sense, is permitting us to enlarge to enlarge that life, to enter
different times, different cultures, live different lives. And
Hamlet’s fictional life is every bit as relevant as Elizabeth I’s
historical life. So we can be part of another experience and add to
our understanding of human nature.”

‘“‘And it seems to me that though there are no pat formulas for

  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
     
   
     
 
      
   
      
      
    

John D. Wilson (photo by Pat
Hinely, W&L)

&
SUITS BY:

Deansgate
John Peel
Gant
Haspel

 

     
   
   

SPORTCOATS

human happiness, the first obligation we have to ourselves and to
our students is to make them understand that self-knowledge is
ultimately the key to any chance we might have for a glimpse of
human happiness. And I cannot conceive of reaching adulthood
with any full sense of that without very deep exposure to the liberal
disciplines.”

“There are many other things that are cultivated by the liberal
experience. To be sure, we do hope to sharpen intellectual skills
along those several pathways. But essentially what we’re doing is
expanding each student’s knowledge of himself by having him live
human experiences that other wise would be totally inaccessible to
him or to her, And I think that’s absolutely a vital task, perhaps the
most crucial four years in the development of a mature and
thoughtful human being.”’

There’s a notion purveyed that it’s all over in the first 18 months,
I mean, that the human being is fixed and shaped in that
time, but I believe that not to be true. I think at 22, I was a very dif-
ferent person from the callow youth who wanted to be a sports-
writer — a very honorable, I thought, and I mean that seriously,
choice at the time, but that was not, at 22, my vision of the world. At
18, it very clearly was. And some very important things happened
in that interlude, thanks to the intervention of some civilized people
who cared enough about me to help me to enlarge my sense of
myself, and of human possiblity.”

“The Detroit Free-Press lost a most ardent Tiger fan in the pro-
cess.” (Laughter. )

Question: Dr. Wilson, do you forsee in any time during your
tenure the admission of women as undergraduates?

Dr. Wilson: I wondered when we would get to that. (Laughter)
Those of you who have taken a look at my biographical outline will
know that I spent seven years, very nearly seven years as president
of a college for women. And that was a very, very rewarding and in-
teresting tenure. I enjoyed it very much indeed. I went to Wells Col-
lege, though, I must say, in 1968 on the assumption that I was join-
ing a first-rate undergraduate college of the liberal arts and
sciences. I was not self-consciously associating myself with a
single-sexed college for women. If you think that was myopic, you
may be right.”

“But the point is in 1968 we weren’t terribly concerned with that
sort of thing. We had had a national experience which in turn had
built upon the experience in the West of hundreds of years of first-
rate university and collegiate education, most of which, in quality
places, had been gender specific. That’s sort of an antiseptic way to
put it. (Laughter) Had been single-sex. And the women’s colleges

that came along, thanks to Henry Wells, who had created the Wells-
Fargo Company, and Matthew Vassar, who I understand was a
great brewery mogul, or whatever, that these people were trying to
create a parallel opportunity for women which had been denied
them. And so some first-rate colleges for women developed in the
Northeast, first, and then in other sections of the country.”

“I think all of that made me, and I was very conscious of the
history of higher education in this country, to be sure, self-
counscious about that, so that I was a little baffled when, one after

SHOES BY:

Bass
American Gentleman
Clarks
Top-Sider

OUTERWEAR BY
Woolrich

Student Charge

RAINCOATS BY

London Fog Topsider
Special Selection of Izod Shirts 2 Price!

We are looking forward to seeing you.

 

another, the predominantly male colleges, exclusively male col
leges in most cases, began to form task forces and blue-ribbon com
mittees, and issuing in due course reports that contradicted the
success stories that each of those institutions had in one way or
another achieved.”’ :

“In effect they said, ‘It isn’t a natural experience that we pro.
vide, it isn’t natural to educate people to be without exposure in the
classroom to the other point of view, whichever way this went. So
we had developing a kind of new pedagogy that assumed somethin;:
narrow and twisted in the depravation of the other point of view.
Now I think there was an awful lot of mythology associated with
those reports. As I said, I think they contradicted institutional ex.
perience. And I believe that the coeducation issue, of course in the
early 70s it was still so new people weren’t sure how long it would
remain to be an issue, whether it was a fad, whether it was
something simply being talked about — I think that’s no longer the
case — clearly coeducation and the coeducationalization of male
colleges and female colleges has gone apace so that it’s almost a
given. But I think, in that sense, it’s passed out of the realm of
something we have to worry immediately about or think im-
mediately about.”’

“This university has been able to attract, it continues to be able
to attract first-rate students, and retain them, and to educate them
to become successful citizens of the larger world, and that seems to
me to be a useful mission.”

“And I don’t know enough about the ‘Washington and Lee ex-
perience,’ if I may put quotation marks around that phrase, to
know how much of it comes out of its gender, as it were, or how
much of it might change if women were admitted in equal numbers
to Washington and Lee. Obviously, I want to wait a time and get
some better sense of what that experience is before I offer any fur-
ther opinions on the subject.”

“I would say this: that we would not be in the position of ad-
vocating a change at this stage. I will not argue with the board (of
trustees) that we ought to contradict success. So we’ll look and see
how that goes. I do favor the education of women. I do find civiliz-
ing the society of men and women together. I do think the women’s
colleges played an important role, and continue to, and I especially
think it important that those colleges were able, when it was useful
to do so, to break down the stereotypical way of thinking about stu-
dent and field. When I was at Michigan State years ago, I
remember vividly the bright young woman in biochemistry who
said, ‘I can’t stand it anymore. It’s such a male province over
there. They patronize me. They don’t mean to but they patronize
me every time I come.’ It was a male province because
biochemistry was something men frequently chose, and women
frequently chose the arts and so on. And so you had a kind of cur-
riculum separation that I thought was really quite destructive. Now
again that’s pretty well behind us in coeducational places. We have
as many women enrolled at Virginia Tech, for example, in the col-
lege of engineering, or more, frankly, than we do in the college of
education or the college of human resources. So that’s all changed
in the last 10 or 15 years, and it’s very healthy that it should have.

SS SS a iii

Aluin-Benniz

Welcome Back:

Be sure to come by and look at our Fall Selections !

SWEATERS BY:

Deans
Woolrich

Izod

  

SHIRTS BY:

Sero
Woolrich
Izod

100% Cotton
Khaki

Master Charge

SO I I I PO lal ce er ee ee nd ere eal ae or need tee ase eed ee ered oe oe
-_—— ed —— —
pep lard ceed teed ted — ef

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

FRESHMINKS Romp

UNAWARE OF THE
MADNESS SOON TO

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

Seige
FRESHMINKS:
BE ON GUARD

 

 

 

 

 

~oanypengg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ TOOL |

He's FURNITURE )
: HK

ic
ES

 

 
 
  
 

  

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan

| | Loh Obfce Sunol JEWELERS
| @ henan oah fice eT Watches and

Jewelry Repai
4 _ Help For All Your Office Needs ei we
N ‘We order’’ GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
! Old Main Street Hand E & Class Rings
N Lexington, Va. 24450 HELEN DUKE en

(703) 463-4062 TED DUKE

 

 

11W. Nelson 463-2022 }

 

  
 
 

iF THEY SHOW OFF THE VACUU CULTIVATE SOMEONE IN THE DEMAND A BID IF You'RE
ener i S MIGHT SE A TEST HOUSE WHO CAN COACH YOU. |A_ LEGACY. 7 ices
Do NOT TURN ITON. , AP AN
F i Sa. HOW AMA ONCL#5
i HAVING re AND ERE GAMMA TAU?
ETING WOMEN.
ae HERE, TALK OU ston y
vg TO PETUNIA. C NX OOODDE w="
~ ae -~_
NN Ay Aahe “a ij
*)
Ol ARXN
i. (¥ oP Z,
DERY
= WY Al
THE BALL SESSION EXTENDING as BID | Tk may be Wrongs
ke ime accepting. it' iA.
| fa Mm ne prespenrg ‘but it's alrish
| u ;

 

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Serving Quality Foods to

Students, Alumni and Parents

for 50 Years.

 
 

 

 

 

An Angle of Vision by Betty Munger

Summer
ponderings

In June, when school closed and the students left, a
certain peace descended. We strolled across the cam-
pus, stopped to gossip and went about our business in
a more measured fashion. Urgent crises disap-
peared; the Summer Workshops brought relaxed peo-
ple to the campus and there was even a touch of
languor.

We, in the Bookstore, attended to housekeeping
chores. Inventories were checked; the University
auditors were coped with; and the place was put back
together again after the chaos of winter.

By July, however, a lull had set in. Book sales near-
ly zeroed out, and, in all honesty, things were
downright dull. We began to wonder: Did Tom get
that dream job in Yellowstone? Was Dick going to
make enough money to go abroad next Spring term?
How was Harry’s rocky romance working out? Sur-
prisingly, we began to miss the turbulence of 1300
students.

In August, the fall textbooks began to cascade down
the back chute, tens of cartons at a time. The
strenuous work set in: the unpacking, the pricing
(Good Lord, how the prices have jumped. Be warn-
ed!) and the shelving. We were looking toward the fall
and again wondering, had summer experiences of-
fered students expanded horizons and wider perspec-
_, tives? New Jokes? New Loves? stunning tans? Would
they be returning with a bit more intellectual curiosi-
ty as well as that perpetual pressure for better
grades? And what about the entering freshmen?
That’s easier: earnest, dazed at first, and quite laid
back. Wonder and excitement will be carefully con-
cealed.

A month or so ago, ‘‘The New Yorker” ran a car-
toon which is now posted in the Bookstore. It shows a
1968 hippie saying, ‘‘Wow -- Like Groovy,” and his
1982 coat-and-tied counterpart saying, ‘‘Gulp!”’

No doubt, the world of 1982 has a lot to swallow
hard about, but there is hope that this coming year
will have a little less “Gulp” and a touch more
‘6 ‘Wow ! 9

Welcome Back

The Drug Store of Personal Service
We will cash your checks
(Student I.D. please)
Make Change for your laundry machines
We appreciate your patronage

Charge Accounts Invited
Prescriptions — Health and Beauty Aids
Soft and Hard Contact Lens Supplies }
Greeting Cards and Wrap

C ,
: 17 S. MAIN STREET

PHONE (703) 463-2373

 

Banned books
on display

The bookstore manager
usually displays dictionaries
and other reference books for
the first weeks of class, but this
year she is using her display
table for a political message.

Betty Munger is showing off
banned books.

The books range from ‘‘Alice
in Wonderland” to ‘‘The Adven-
tures of Huckleberry Finn’’ to
“The Catcher in the Rye.’’ And
around the books Mrs. Munger
has wrapped heavy chains and
padlocks.

Mrs. Munger used a list of
banned books provided by the
National Association of College
Stores, and the American
Booksellers and American
Libray Associations. These
three groups have a combined
membership of more than
50,000, Mrs. Munger said.

The associations ‘‘believe
that a free people, placing a
high value on the freedoms of
speech and thought, will not
abrogate its freedom of choice
in reading matter,” according
to a press release.

,

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982, Page 7

Cliff Wargellin

Dormitory.
Pat Hinely, W&L)

VARNER & POLE

115 S. Main St.
For your extra pieces of furniture

a Sc ae

Student Activities Board...
Continues

TUESDAYS
IN THE PIT

 

 

 

Sept.14 Root Boy Slim
Sept. 21 Brice Street
Sept. 28 The Movies

MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
WIDE SCREEN TV

DALLAS vs. PITTSBURG
9:00 P.M.
HOT DOGS

2/$1°°

EP OOD O > OEE 0-0 <>) OEE 0 E> 0-0-0 ED 0-<EED-0-<EED-0 ED (<0 <---> (0) 0-0

i

A long way
from home

and

parents John and Altha
of Birmingham, Mich.,
move into Graham-Lees
(photo by

 

|

S(O D0 <()-<O-<0 <( <0 () <-(:) <-- )

i
|
|
!
| Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982
| ,
|
|
|
ah LEXINGTON...
|
|
:
|
|
|
|
|

IT ALL HAPPENS ON THE CORNER?

 

Nelson & Jefferson St. |
