 

 

WE&L Class of 1978: A Senior Remembers

by Peter Keefe

One week from today com-
mencement exercises will be
held on the frown lawn of W&L
for the class of 1978.

Graduation contains the ele-
ment of.finality, and a greater
element of continuity than is
found at most other schools.

We leave behind us unique
condtions of existence that can’t
be duplicated anywhere —
roadtrips, grain parties, odd
musical tastes, beautiful moun-
tains, a particular slang, an ef-
fective honor system.

Simply stated, it seems in-
evitable that the way .we con-
duct our lives will change to a
degree greater than say, a

P Aitng-i0i0
Washington and Lee University
VOLUME LXXVII

graduate from the University of
Maryland or the University of
Richmond.

At the same time, there is a
residue from one’s experience
at W&L that sticks longer and
in greater quantity than at
other schools. Alumni of W&L
traditionally are more concern-

ed about, and more generous, in’ —

maintaining the security of
their alma mater’s future.

Most of us eagerly await the
chance to go out irito society and
test ourselves, and indirectly
W&L, against the wiles of
mature life. And there are those
who understandably will stay
around Lexington; those who
feel that they have found a way

of life and a home here.

Always. at this time of year,
seniors tend to sacrifice a little
education reminiscing. They
talk about the people we have
met, and the spectacles we have
witnessed over the last four
years can continue well into the
early morning.

How many members of the
class of 1978 were present at

Homeland Field in Baltimore,

May 1975, when little W&L,

' seeded last in the NCAA tourna-

ment, soundly trounced number
one Johns Hopkins?

And speaking of lacrosse, the
bonfire in the Quad after the
victory over U.VA. freshman
year was made more notable

when one of our former
classmates chased one of the
deans with a burning broom
(one of the unintended
casualties of that blaze, along
with some furniture, was a term
paper that was accidentally. us-
ed for fuel before it had been
graded).

There was also the Fancy
Dress mudslide. Fancy Dress
Weekend 1975 was a rainy one,
creating perfect conditions. in
the Quad. The event developed
into a game of one-upmanship,
as ordinarly dressed participats
stepped aside first for an in-
dividual in ful formal dress,
and then for one who. wasn’t
dressed at all.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 19, 1978

Ceremony Next Week

300 Seniors, 70 Law Students Will Receive Degrees

More than 300 bachelor’s and

- 70 law degrees will be presented

during graduation exercises at

Washington and Lee University
next week.
Among the graduating

seniors will be a Rhodes
scholar, an all-american
basketball player, numerous
gatorers, the best swimmer
ever at W&L, assorted frisbee
flingers, hard-core bookers,
rednecks, yankees, jocks,
rebels, independents, fraternity
loyalists, and the myriad of
other categories of people that .
gives the ordinary class of ‘78
its unique flavor.

The commencement
ceremony itself--marking ‘the
close of W&L’s 228th academic
year--will take place Thursday
(June 1) on the historic Front

Campus, weather permitting.

By long-standing tradition, the .

speaker will be the president of
the university, Robert E. R.
Huntley. Remarks will also be
delivered by the president of the
student body, James M.
Underhill, a graduating senior
from Babylon, N.Y.

- The 11 a.m. ceremony will be
preceded by commissioning
ceremonies for student
members of W&L’s Reserve Of-
ficer Training Corps unit. Brig.
Gen. Robert H. Forman, the
deputy commanding general at
Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., and
former chairman of the Army
Leadership Board, will be the
principal speaker on that occa-
sion. Three students will

receive regular army commis-_

sions and 15 will receive reserve

commissions during the 9 a.m.
ceremonies. in Lee Chapel.
Graduation activities formal-
ly begin Wednesday with the
traditional baccalaureate ser-
vice in Evans Hall at 11 a.m.
The speaker will be Dr. Minor
L. Rogers, assistant professor
of religion at W&L. .

_ Also planned over the two-day
commencement period are the
traditional luncheon given by
the W&L alumni association for
graduating students, their
families and guests, and Presi-

dent and Mrs. Huntley’s recep- -

tion, also for graduates and
guests. :

More than 100 students will
receive the bachelor of arts
degree from The College,
W&L’s liberal arts and sciences

(continued on page 8)

Tucker’s Resignation Rejected
By An Indignant EC

by Randy Smith

Bill Tucker submitted his
resignation as chairman of the
Student Activities Board to the
Executive Committee Monday
night. The. EC declined
Tucker’s resignation, however,
by a vote of 2-6, forcing Tucker
to serve out the last week of his
term as SAB chairman.

Tucker tendered his resigna-
tion after a stormy confronta-
tion with EC members over fun-
ding of last week’s Glenn
Phillips concert in the Cockpit.

-At last week’s EC meeting, it
was recommended to Tucker
that tbe SAB pay the difference
in the band’s $800 price, ex-
pected to be about $200. (The
Music Union contributed $200,
the $1 cover-charge was ex-
pected to generate an additional
$300-400, and the Cockpit pro-
vided meals for the group. )

In return for SAB funding of
the band, the EC promised to
underwrite any unexpected ex-

penses charged to the SAB dur-
ing the summer.
“‘We don’t want to take money

out of the reserve fund to pay
for a band,” said EC vice- —

president George Griffin. The
purpose of the reserve fund is to
cover budget overruns of sub-
committees.

EC members were reluctant
to fund entertainment out of the

reserve account, prompting the
proposed exchange of fiscal
responsibility between the EC
and the SAB.

Tucker said that the decision
to make up the difference in
funding the Glenn Phillips band
would be up to his committee.

The Student Activities Board
decided against funding the

(continued on page 2)

 

J. Michael Gallagher an-
nounced at a press conference
today that he will resign as
editor-in-chief of-the Ring-tum

fective today at noon. Gallagher
will retain his position on the
Publications Board, though.
Gallagher has been editor of
the paper since last May. The
resignation came as a complete
surprise to many readers of the

 

RtP.

Gallagher R esigns

Phi. The resignation will be ef- ~

Gallagher had been riding the
waves of victory the past couple
of weeks beginning with the
EC’s reversal of the Publica-
tions Board decision to dismiss
him as editor. Gallagher had
promised his readers to remain
as editor as long as the EC was
taking responsibility for the
publication.

Gallagher was reached at his
home after the conference and

 

_ (continued on page 8)

 

 

phi

: & . @ e
Last week’s Muckraker-Gondolier confrontation pitted these two,

Most of us remember also,
Hell Week for the pledges of Phi
Psi. On Monday night they
gathered in the Quad, and
precisely at midnight, began a
recitation ordered by the
brothers of their fraternity.
Word percolated down to the
rest of the freshmen that the
procedure was to be repeated
nightly for the entire week.

Thus, on Tuesday night when
the Phi Psi pledges grouped in
the Quad, they were drowned
out by the arsenal of fireworks
and water balloons that poured
from darkened windows. The
pledges broke ranks, scattered
and the practice was suspend-

(continuedonpage7) 4

NUMBER 30

imedia titans in fierce combat. See story page 6. photo by Neil Sheehan

EC Honor Code Changes

by Neil Pentifallo

Secretary of the EC
The Executive Committee
has made several changes to
the White Book and reexamined
the procedures of honor trials
this year. The process took
several weeks, and significant

' revisions were passed as well as

several that cleared confusing
parts.

The examination and ques-
tioning of parts of the White
Book resulted from many law
students being concerned with
‘an accused person’s rights and
that a fair trial be ensured.

The Student Bar Association
set up a subcommittee to
review the White Book and sug-
gest changes to the Executive
Committee. The two law class
representatives were non-
voting members of the subcom-
mittee and explained the pro-

cedures of honor trials.

The most significant change
recommended by the subcom-
mittee was a form of graduated

’ penalty. They suggested that

the EC first decide if a student
is guilty, then set a time when
he may reapply to school if the
EC dediced he could return at
all. This was rejected by the
EC. The reasons given were
that a graduated penalty would
be a “‘buffer’” for students. The
law students were concerned
with the absolute penalty
because it is virtually impossi-
ble to transfer to another law
school if one were dismissed.

A change that the EC did pass
was limiting the area that the
EC has jurisdiction for honor of-
fenses. Previously, there were
no geographic boundaries to the
honor system. Now, it is more

(continued on page 8)

 
Page 2, Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1978

~ - =
* ao.
- dy - = == a “
2 =

~

 

“ ae a

Has it been a slow year?

Phonathon Nets $20,000

Twenty-eight Washington and -

Lee University students raised
approximately $20,000 from
alumni and parents for the
university’s Annual Fund dur-
ing a ‘‘phonathon’” conducted
under the auspices of the Stu-
dent Planning and Develop-
ment Committee this month.

During each of the three
nights of the phonathon,
students who raised the money
or the most pledges received
prizes, W&L beer mugs.

The prize winners were Harry
T. Jones III, a senior, and
William M. Webster, a junior,
during the first night; E. Hub-
bard Kennady III, a sophomore
who won in both categories the
second night; and Jerry M.
Baird, a senior, and Anthony A.
Carli Jr., a sophomore on the
final night.

Other student participants
were seniors John L. Bruch III,
Robert M. Couch, Walter
Granruth III, George F. Griffin
IV, Benjamin I. Johns, Philip J.
Kaplan, James S. MecNider III,
Marcus M. Pennell III, and

third-year law student Robert
G. Morecock.

Juniors who took part in the
effort were Andrew J. Archie,
R. E. Lee Davies, Frank R.
Ellerbe III, Douglas B. Lane, J.
Hagood S. Morrison, Stephen D.
Trigg, Peter M. Williams and
Thomas A. Wiseman III.

Sophomoies Daniel J. Weeks
and John T: Woods and
freshmen R. Christopher Gam-
mon, James G. Hurley Jr., and
Joseph Robles constituted the
rest of the group.

The money raised by the
group is for the Annual Fund,
which this year has a goal of
$775,000. The fund provides bet-
ween eight and ten percent of
Washington and Lee’s annual
operating budget, accounting
for approximately $450 per stu-
dent of the difference between
the cost of a student’s education
at W&L and the amount the stu-
dent actually pays in tuition.

The students worked for three
hours for each of the three
nights. Planning for the
phonathon began in early
January.

THE RING-TUM PH

J. Michael Gallagher
Editor-in-Chief ;
| ee ee ert ee J. Michael Gallagher

Sports Editor ..............
Advertising Manager.......
Circulation Manager .......
Editorial Assistant .........
Carseat on 6068s ese cess
RN oe sk 0 ee cee
Gy a ooo 5 600 1k ee
ae ee ee ee

adeeess J. Michael Gallagher
eeeeeeeee J. Michael Gallagher
os a4keeen J. Michael Gallagher
cRacigass J. Michaél Gallagher

sees J. Michael Gallagher
eke J. Michael Gallagher
ieee cass J. Michael Gallagher
op utnges s J. Michael Gallagher

Special Thanks to Pam Hartless, Fred Clark
and Bill Meacham

 

EC Throws Keg Party

(continued from page 1)

band, the cost of which
amounted to $136.

At Monday’s EC meeting,
Griffin said he was ‘“‘disap-
pointed”’ with the SAB’s deci-
sion. ‘‘We planned on spending
this $136 anyway,” he said.

Tucker said his committee
was reluctant to help pay for
entertainment not booked by
students.

“If that’s the SAB’s attitude
toward the Music Union and the
Cockpit, we might as well give
the Music Union $10,000 next
year,’’ snapped Jim Underhill,
president of the EC.

“T think it’s the job of the SAB
to provide entertainment for the
students not in fraternities and
you didn’t take responsibility
for that,’’ said sophomore
representative Steve Abraham.

Doug Perkins, senior EC
representative, made a motion
“to strip the SAB of their
funds.”’

Following Perkins’ motion,
discussion centered on the
assumption of the SAB’s sum-
mer debts.

The largest question mark in
the SAB’s budget is the salary
of the promotional advertising

/agent who was contracted to

help make arrangements for
the Harry Chapin concert. He

did not come to Lexington as .

promised.
Tucker was in the process of
negotiating the agent’s fee, but

several EC members felt thee

agent should not be paid.

To complicate the issue,
Tucker said the promotional
agency had ‘‘fulfilled their
obligations” to the written con-
tract, ‘“‘but not in the verbal con-
tract.’’ (It was verbally agreed
that the agent would come to
Lexington. )

“We’re not going to worry
about that $750 agent’s fee,”’
said Underhill.

“T really think it would be a
mistake to take this out of our
laps,’’ responded Tucker.

Underhill also expressed in-
dignation that Tucker could not
predict outstanding SAB bills.

“How can bills trickle in this
summer that you don’t even
know about?” he asked. “If
you can’t handle these things in
a good business-like manner,
we will take your money from
you. You are not making good
decisions for the SAB,”’
Underhill said.

Perkins’ motion to take the
$3,100 currently remaining in
the SAB’’s budget and assume
their debts and liabilities for the
summer was approved 7-1.
Freshman representative Chris
Gammon was the only EC
member to vote against the mo-
tion. Absent from Monday’s
meeting were Jackie Boyden,
Tom Healy, Mike Missal, and
Andy Bodenstab.

      
   
  
 

Cheese 2.49
2 Items 3.39

 

   
 

All The Cheese Pizza You Can
Eat!

Every Thursday Night From 5 to 11

Only At The Lexington Pizzeria

On MAIN STREET

“The EC feels, considering
the amount left, that you did not
spend the SAB’s money wise-
ly,’ said Underhill after the
vote.

Tucker silently submitted his
resignation and left the
meeting. The EC voted to
decline his resignation.

In an interview after the
meeting, Tucker said, ‘‘I
thought Underhill’s com-

ment(after the vote to take
away the SAB’s money )-‘you’ve
been hosed’--was very ap-
propriate.”

On the SAB’s decision not to
help fund the Glenn Phillips
band, Tucker said, “‘The SAB
was tired of financing groups in
the Cockpit with money from
student body funds when a stu-
dent had not booked the band.”’

‘The EC has shown a tenden-
cy this year to meddle in the af-
fairs of their subcommittees,
mainly the SAB and the Pub.
Board,” Tucker said. ‘‘If thé EC
wants to run our financial af-
fairs, I see no reason to be the
chairman of that committee.”’

“T will not be a part of next
year’s EC if they prove to be as
lethargic and inept as_ this
year’s,”’ continued Tucker, who
is vice-president of next year’s
EC.

In reference to the running
keg of Miller beer the EC had
during their Monday meeting,
Tucker said, ‘‘I think it’s quite
appropriate that when I resign-,
ed, the EC was having a keg
party to improve relations bet-
ween itself *and its subcom-
mittees. If it takes an inebriated
student body government to get
along with its subcommittees
and perform its ‘legislative
responsibility, then something
is wrong.”’

Other business at Monday’s
EC meeting included year-end
committee reports.

The 1980 Mock Convention
Committee presented an itemiz-
ed budget of their expenses this
year.: Eighty people, primarily
freshmen and sophomores,
were reportedly signed up for
next year’s committee.

Parker Potter, editor of Ariel,
the student: literary magazine,
reported a successful year and
recommended that two issues

be printed next year. The latest .-

edition of the magazine was
made available Wednesday at
the library and the bookstore.

Contact committee reported
spending $11,670 of their $12,000
on five speakers this year. The
EC voted to appropriate, 60 per-
cent of the sum left in Contact’s
checking account (the percen-
tage of their contribution to the
organization at the beginning of
the year.)

The Cold Check Committee
reported that $541 in checks had
yet to be repaid by students.
Dick Schoenfeld, next year’s

w/1 Item 2.99
3 Items 3.79

committee chairman, said he
felt there was a good chance the
committee ‘could at least
break even’’ by the end of the
year.

This year’s chairman, An-
drew Sanders, said that many
merchants who usually do not
work with the Cold Check Com-
mittee had ‘‘dumped’”’ hundreds
of dollars worth of bad checks
on the committee las week.
“They waited until the last
minute, letting the checks ac-
cumulate,’’ he said.

Sanders also recommended
that the EC lend money to the
Student Emergency Loan Fund
next year. (Currently, the only
source of revenue for that
organization is fine money

given by Cold Check and Stu- ’

dent Control.)

Grant Leister, business
manager of the Calyx, gave an
itemized accounting of this
year’s expenditures in putting
out a yearbook.

His projected net budget
overrun for this year was $477.
Leister said this year’s book
had run $1,660 above budget,
but that more revenues had
been collected than budgetted.

Leister also noted that the
student tax only paid for $7.20 of
the cost for the $19 yearbooks.
He recommended that next
year’s Calyx receive more
money from the EC.

The Publications Board con-
troversy that has been wagedx
all spring was never fully
resolved; its resolution has
been left up to next year’s Ex-

ecutive Committee.
A recommendation was
made, however, that two

students serve as_ voting
members on future Pub. Boards
to provide more student input in
that organization.

“‘T hope you (the Pub. Board)
will take the initiative to see
this thing through next year,”
said Underhill.

Despite the relatively sparse
student attendance at the
meeting, the entire keg of beer
was eventually consumed.

 

 

CHINESE
RESTAURANT

Lucheon Buffet $2.65
Sunday Dinner Buffet

$4.50
Open 7 Days A Week
30 S. Main St
463-5175

 

   
  
      
    
    
     

Alvin-Bennis

Headquarters for the

  

Exclusive

Washington and

Lee Tie
$6.50

Send orders to:
W&L TIES
ALVIN-DENNIS

102 W. Washington St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

$1.50 POSTAGE

 

BAMBOO GARDEN |

 

 

ae
POO OOO OPO OOO OOOO OOO OOOO OOOO OO OOOOOOOOO0CO000000 0OCE

 

ENTERTAINMENT
“Saturday Night” saves Ariel

 

by Amy Herring

Sympathy to Parker Potter!
If some of the work published in
the Winter-Spring edition of the
ariel is any indication of what
Potter had to read as editor of
the W&L literary magazine, he
must be a truly dedicated in-
dividual.

Those interested in reading
ariel, don’t let my words
dissuade you in any way: the
opening quote fromThe
Tempest is remarkably ac-
cuarate in its description of the
need for a bit of artistic inter-
ruption during the university's
Bacchanalian short term.

It is truly unfortunate that the
magazine begins with what is
probably the weakest effort in
the entire ariel, Mark Mendel’s
short story ‘It All Looks Dif-
ferent in the Morning.” Aside
from saying the story is truly
bad, there is very little that can
even warrant comment. In
deference to Mendel’s true need
for constructive criticism, I will
at least note that ‘I kissed her
lightly on the temple and climb-
ed out of the bed, ready to greet
the new day”’ is an incredibly
trite way to end the story. At
least the author was consistent.

Michael. Brown’s contribu-

 

tion, ‘‘The Stagehand,”’
represents a true improvement
over Mendel’s atrocity. Brown
evidently has been studying
John Gardner or perhaps one of
the numerous new American
authors who are imitating him
now. Brown attempts a ‘“Gard-
neresque’’ mystical surprise
story and succeeds to an ad-
mirable extent. Unfortunately,
instead of allowing his reader to
draw his own conclusion about
the Edenic existence of the
company, he places these con-
clusions in the words of his
main character. Even readers
like to think at times and allow-
ing them to reach their own
decision would have created a
greater interest in the plot.
Keep it up Mr. Brown: you've
got a lot going for you!
“Sometimes Even Old
Friends Can't Save Saturday
Night’’ by James Leva _ is
delightful and easily the best
piece in this edition of the ariel.
In fact, the effort required to ob-
tain the magazine may well be
deserved by this one story
alone. Leva’s use of classical
and historical reference is
nothing short of excellent in this
whimsical, but  thought-
provoking, adventure into hell.
Many think that hell might be

infinitely more interesting than
heaven. Leva has gone a long
way toward making this a
foregone conclusion.

Jim Feinman’s ‘“‘The Last
Cast’’ will undoubtedly have ap-
peal to the sportsman at W&L.
Although it lacks some of the in-
terest of Ben Keesee’s contibu-
tion to this sports- story genre in
the last edition of theariel, the
story shows Feinman to have
definite skill in description and
a genuine hold on reality- crea-
tion. I really felt that this story
could actually have taken
place. The ending is somewhat
trite and could have been im-
proved if the author’s ability in
the rest of the piece is any in-
dication. But like Michael
Brown, Jim Feinman should not
lay down his pen yet.

The poetry of the ariel is what
could have been expected in a
college literary magazine: a
whole bunch of very free and
not-so-great free verse and a
couple of things which show the
beginnings of ability on the part
of the poet. Only one true irrita-
tion: I have never claimed to be
a scholar and I generally get
very upset at editors who do not
translate Latin phrases for the

(continued on page 8)

Musical Mainstream

by Mark Mainwaring
Robin Meredith

You're Not Alone
Roy Buchanan
Atlantic 19170

With the release of his eighth
solo album, Roy Buchanan reaf-
firms his place among the
world’s top guitarists. You're
Not Alone has a very different
sound from previous Buchanan
works, though, moving
somewhat away from blues and
more into straight rock and
(almost) space rock. The begin-
ning of ‘‘Fly...Night Bird’’, for
example, could be an outtake
from Pink Floyd’s Wish You
Were Here recording sessions.

You’re Not Alone opens up
with a totally uncharacteristic
keyboard piece, leading into the
powerful ‘Turn to Stone,” writ-
ten by Joe Walsh and easily the
best tract on the album. Oddly
enough (sine most of the
material is original), the
record’s worst song was also
written by someone outside the
band — in this case Neil Young.
Buchanan should never have
touched Young's classic ‘‘Down
by the River,’’ and his remake
just can’t compare with the
original. With the exception of
this one low point, however,
You're Not Alone represents a

new and welcome progression

for Roy Buchanan.

by Robin Meredith
Nick Lowe
‘Pure Pop for Now People”’
Columbia
’’Pure Pop for Now People’’ is
the first solo outing by Nick
Lowé,., the. founder of Stiff

ee Pi htc Lia wits ot be it

Records, who has produced and

played behind such people as”

Graham Parker and Elvis
Costello. The front cover of this
album, which.features six
photographs of Nick ina variety
of costumes ranging from a
John Sebastian-ish flower child,
circa 1968, to a recent reject by
CBGB’s, is quite representative
of what.is to be found inside.
The music itself is a spotty
misture of bizarre satire and oc-
casionally billiant pop craft-
manship. These two diverse
elements come together most
coherently in ‘‘Marie Provost,”
a lament to an up-and-coming
star whose career was
prematurely ended when she
was devoured by her pet
dachshund. Other standouts in-
clude ‘(I Love the.Sound of)
Breaking Glass,” a curious
send-up of the New Wave's fee-
ble dabblings in reggae, and

‘‘Roller’s Show,”’ a bitterly sar-
castic ode to teenage mania.

Of course, there are times
when Lowe’s finely tuned
satirical sense deteriorates into
simplistic redundancy. ‘‘Music
for Money’”’ and ‘‘They Called It
Rock’’ in particular come
across as little more than exer-
cises in beating dead dogs.
Despite these minor flaws, the
album as a whole succeeds
remarkably well, especially
considering the ambitious
nature of its subject matter.
‘Pure Pop for Now People’
stands as a fine testament to the
brilliance of Nick Lowe who, on
the basis of this record, appears
to have a much greater chance
of becoming a seminal figure in
rock’n’roll than any of his
celebrated victims.

!

See you next year.

oO

 

 

UNIVERSITY DINING
SERVICE

Hours Final Week

EVANS DINING HALL —
SUPPLY STORE / SNACK BAR — Open Saturday,
May 27 8:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.
Monday, May 29 7:30 - 4:00
Tues. - Fri. May 31-June 2 8:00 - 3:00
ATTIC SALE
WED. & THURS. May 31 & Junel 12:00 - 2:00
*Caps & Gowns May Be Picked Up Any Time
During Regular Hours
COCKPIT — Last Day Thurs., June 1
10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.

Last Meal Monday Lunch

 

 

Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1978, Page 3

 

Glenn Phillips appeared in Pit last weekend.

In Your Pit —

by Randy Smith

High quality rock entertain-
ment appeared in the Cockpit
this past weekend.

The Glenn Phillips band was,
without a doubt, the best group
to have performed in
Washington and Lee’s tavern
this year’ and rivals the recent
Harry Chapin concert for solid
performance.

Glenn Phillips mesmerized
an enthusiastic crowd of over
400 people Friday and Saturday
night. Many sat through all six
sets of their sharp, crisp play.

Phillips is a classic lead
guitarist, rivaling Jeff Beck in
style and ability; he also staged
an incredible acrobatic show in
his dirty red sneakers.

1
X

The bass player, ‘‘The
dynamic Bill Ray,” is another
classic performer; the typical
disinterested-looking bass
player — unfazed by it all.

Twenty-nine-year-old Doug
Lansberg on drums and
keyboard man David Wilson
rounded out the group’s strong
show of hard and fast rock. The
only thing lacking was vocals,
but that did not detract from the
quality of the performance.

Dan Scott should be given
much credit for the Glenn
Phillips coup. It was his in-
itiative that brought them all
the way up from Atlanta.

The SAB should keep this
band in mind for next October’s
Homecoming weekend concert.

463-3424

HELD OVER 2 EXTRA NIGHTS —
WED. & THURS. 7&9 P.M.

STARTS FRIDAY

the SEA

ah ger

One Show Per Night
Starts 7:30 P.M.

Sat., Sun., Mat. 2 P.M.
itbegan asa dream... \'

A and became
. an adventure
of a lifetime.

Robert
Logan

[ES

.. that one great experience is waiting for you. |

125 Al
LEXINGTON, VA
‘Julia is a movie that has everything. Jane Fonda
gives an impassioned, complex and almost agoni-

zingly dedicated performance.

463-3543

Vanessa Redgrave

seizes the screen with her vibrant performance

‘Julia’ is wonderful.”

JANE FONDA

VANESSA RFOGRAVE ila

JASON ROBARDS

HOLBRUUK
PG

:—Rex Reed, Syndicated Colu

 
REVIEW and OUTLOOK

Editorial Opinion of The Ring-tum Phi

» My Struggle
te

© It has been a long and hard year, but fruitful. Many things have
a been said, much dust has been stirred up, many things have been
° accomplished. First, in the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi staff, the

school newspaper has finally become a school newspaper. In the
past, the editors have been afraid to report the news as it happened,
or even to report the news at all. A newspaper should report all the
news and not be afraid of public opinion. Much of the news tends to
offend the public, but a newspaper’s responsibility is to keep the
public informed. People have been offended this year, but it was in
service to the student body.

One of the problems with the old Ring-tum Phi was that it was
never read by the student body. It was full of News Office press
releases, not news discovered by Phi staff reporters. Press
releases were used this year, but only as filler, not as a main source
of news. As is true in any situation, there is plenty of news in the
world, it just takes a conscientious reporter to sniff it out. The
1977-78 Ring-tum Phi was fortunate to have a staff of reporters will-
ing to stick their noses into other people’s business and make it
their business. Consequently, the staff was able to fill twelve pages
most weeks, and even on one occasion sixteen pages.

But it was not easy. The news staff had to contend with a business
manager who was concerned with making the Ring-tum Phi a huge
monetary success. If the Phi was privately owned, then it would be
the objective of the paper to maké a profit. But the objective of the
Washington and Lee newspaper should be to put out the best, most
informative, and entertaining product for the student body. In do-
ing so the paper will be read and the merchants will want to adver-
tise. If a paper is 60-70 percent ads, the readers will not find much
interest in its pages. The Ring-tum Phi did not make a profit this
year. The editor did not get paid a salary. The editor did not want
one. The editor got what he wanted — twelve pages of news. More
news than the student body has seen before. The Publications
Board backed the Phi news staff in its dispute with the business
manager. For this, the news staff is grateful. Maybe next year the
business manager will get the profit he desires. In the best interests
of the paper, I hope not.

Yes, the paper was read this year. There were many reasons for
Studer” “ee wre

Ke,
“Ps §
taltdenes win tivigy 4B

Nts 7 When yp Main
vot~ py fOlloy) Sag 80g (7 477

~ Mont” nap es &
; d OUTLOOK

| 4th estate
Applications for admission are down 40 per cent |

 

Tucker, Bovay and Bruch cr

z
c.

2eer,,,
Pxecyy Meroy for
"Comm 3

SAB va

Editorial Opinion of The Ring-tum Phi

   

this. The news was divided into sections. The different bits of news
need to be grouped together for the convenience of the reader and
relation to the other news. Some of the headlines of the stories were
sensational. But then, some of the news was sensational also. The
editorials were inciting, provocative, and even infuriating at times.
An editorial should provoke thought. This year’s editorials said
things that have not been said before and needed to be said.

The Student Activities Board was attacked this year because
students have been unsatisfied with. the Board’s past per-
formances. Rumors had been flying around for two years about
money stolen and corruption among the co-chairmen. Individual
members had been willing to talk in the past, but the Phi had been
unwilling to print what they had to say. More things were un-
covered than were printed this year for lack of strong evidence.
The SAB was the committee most in need of the paper breathing
down its back. In the past, bands were booked in secret, records
were not kept, there was no account of how student money was be-
ing spent. In essence, the student body was not being fairly
represented by the SAB. A small segment of thought was year after
year controlling the SAB and making all the decisions. The SAB
refused to listen to the student opinion collected. by the SAB itself
because it didn’t reflect the musical tastes held by the committee.
The only way to bring an end to such injustice was to expose the
corruption to the public and dig deep for all the dirt that could be
found. The news staff did not have to dig too deep in the SAB’s case.

Contact was discovered to have been acting along the same lines

_ of the SAB. It too is a committee which is almost self-perpetuating
with Phi Kap and SAE people getting the co-chairmenships year
after year. Contact has been known to make closed door decisions
concerning speakers. The co-chairmen do not include the other
Contact members in decisions about which speakers to get. The Phi
would have reported more on Contact, but the co-chairmen knew
what was going on, and they weren’t talking.

The Ring-tum Phi led the crusade for open meetings to combat
the injustice that existed within the SAB and Contact. The students
have the right to know what is going on behind those closed doors.
The people who make up the committees are not an elite group and
should not consider themselves so. They need to be open to input
from the student body and students should have the opportunity to
scrutinize their representatives’ performance. As has been said in
the past, if the committees are doing a good job, then they should
want to let students know about it.

The 1977-78 Ring-tum Phi is against using student money to fund
EC subcommittee parties. Next year’s Phi will not be. Students
who participate in student activities and on student committees
should not expect a reward for doing so. The reward should be in

‘Law Students Vote For
Separate Honor System ,

by Kevin Dwyer (SBA) has ly been con- “we f

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

  
 
    
  

 

 

 

doing the job. It is a shame that the people who serve on these com-
mittees do not think so. Stud&nts do not pay their activities fee to
fund parties for public servants.

Because Washington and Lee is not set alone in this world, the
Phi chose to do some reporting on the city of Lexington. For years,
the students have had complaints about the town and vice versa. In
the past, editors had decided a “hands off’’ policy was the best ap-
proach to the problem. The.problem, never being approached by
the students, was never approached by the city. Noise ballooned in-
to a major problem. The press’s right to public information became
another issue. The first problem was shelved, the second was settl-
ed in the press’s favor. Problems still exist, but the town now knows
the students are a force to be reckoned with.

The news staff decided to investigate W&L’s stock portfolio
because certain industries support South Africa’s apartheid policy.
Apartheid is inhuman and even though W&L has southern conser-
vative tendencies, that is no reason to support South Africa’s racist
policies. . Other universities in the nation demanded explanations
from their schools’ administrations. The Ring-tum Phi felt the
WA&L student body should receive one also

The Charlie Hulfish affair was very sad. Hulfish should have left
student politics after his loan controversy arose at the
beginning of the year. The Ring-tum Phi chose to report that
Hulfish committed an honor violation when he refused to abide by
the system. The news staff felt is presence on campus was an in-
sult to every student for whom the honor system means something.
The Phi broke precedent by printing the results of an honor trial,
but the staff felt the precedent-setting action to be in the best in-
terests of the student body. Hulfish was continuing to use the stu-
dent body for his own dessef*. An honor felon should be ostracized
by the student body. The EC is supposed to do this. In failing to act,
the EC was not fulfilling its duty to the student body. In reporting
the Hulfish honor offense, the irresponsibility of the student govern-
ment and the corruption of a public official who handled student
money was brought to light. :

This was the first year in recent history that the newspaper gave
more than PR coverage to the student body elections. In the past,
only the individual candidates’ personal statements were printed.
The:Phi had been unwilling to approach the issues, as: the can-
didates were unwilling to approach the issues. This yea. the can-
didatés were presented the issues and were compelled to comment
on.them. The student body should be informed as to the candidates’
feelings about all the issues. It is a newspaper’s responsibility to in-
form the student body about the issues and how the candidates feel
about them. My hope is that future editors will attempt to require
more than statements from the candidates.

Che Rank-tam Poon

 

 

 
 
    
 
  

 

Sixty-two of law about'the fairness of the ar VOLUMF 1 LEX STON ViRGINIA APH LL
Season Opens cudets poled by the, WAL, Sereda yande Naor Co tndee 2 oo ee a
“Law News . Ray Leven, prev fai ‘ . \ an
were in favor of separate honor nr ar School closed tomorcou ’ :
It is upon us, The all important start of an integral systems for the Soe :
part of life here at Washington and Lee—the “rack and law schools = ‘r t te :
date” season. With the Homecoming festivities plann- T Ep f . I
ed this weekend, the W&L gentlemen now have a < us ces V 0 € or CoeEt ucatlon
legitimate excuse to invite up that dainty ‘‘little G53 RE 3 In a story that made the na seen jumping up afd de ; '
thing” he has had his eye on for a long time. ei a? fs a S 2 s tonal the Washington tage ane sere
We have been blessed with unusual luck this year. fi : § 7. z 3 ¥
In the past, there were no questions asked, the girls 3 a2 e oe Q> m . a
stayed in the local motels during the day, partied with 3 $ F & >] Ag Ms
the guys in the afternoon and evening, and returned to i 6 rot] Ee > * 3
the hotel by midnight to get their essential 14 hours g Fea*32. @ a s
beauty sleep. But this year, (heh, heh), the motels are q £ 2 : z 42 = * =
tull due to W&L and VMI both having their homecom- § 8§ wae on 4.
ings 8". a Ls ° . +
It you are a “‘veemee,"’ then you are out of luck. ae is roo 8 < a
Your girl will have to go back, and you will have a ® +
lousy homecoming. But if you attend W&L, you have ’ FE544 ri "2
something to fall back on; your charm, your per- ipsbS i 2 = g +
sonality, your room. 3 RoekE fs ~ at
Unless you are a freshman. An upperciassman has ¥ ie 3 ry C. * builars sil at
the maturity, the experience and knows what it takes . . ok a - ( ‘ tate ae :
to come up with a quick, convincing excuse as to the Responses to editorial outcry i é a g 3 Oo * sraltitti CNP sea
reason why his date doesn’t have a nice, quiet, private 4 & 5S
motel room like “all the other respectable girls."’ But +4 £ Fe 3 a * once ey :
a freshman has not been here long enough to develop ae 5 Y «did Soa Qa aes /
the ultimate chivalrous alternative of,*‘Don't worry, 5B 2 + e m ae :
\eu can stay in my room—lI'll sleep on the floor.” 28 x era © ‘ : a
Don't worry freshmen, you will learn. It takes time Undergrad “Untouchables” ® z C. eer As
to develop your charm, personality, and overall : oe wie Perry .
xeneral appearance. It takes time to get used to the d b . g = eae, Oe . ke ees ARE Wy,
girls up here. The equestrian majors, the home ec ccuse master race oe A NE Md ee ee F
majors, and the “probable” kindergarten teachers ” y = aie 1a a eg — he oa a ere
are a special breed of women, and many times plan A J near editor: honor code, and I was not the Ly eo : WAL. will rece! ot more the los :
or even plan B won't work It is with deep regret that I vietin of single theft or act of Zz 1 tw omy ARMY atts it j rH :
z Me eal J wirls fathers the eis thertic tit wi
You alse don’t know the absolute necessity of hav- eee ee a aes ae ee. ous ae Py nT Whee 5
ing a successful “rack date.’ It can add so much to university for over a year now, “‘Southern Gentlemen's el>c andthe Humane iis
your character, personality, GPA and campus and have been disappointed, to wnen” | neve bad sy car 3 4 There wet beudiden Ts ait
prestige. say the very least, with the maged or vandalized twice, ~ =o sirud the old ean Atinvnl pranten WEE Y fuatisstia pts >
hase le hi = school’s so-called ‘‘honor had a textbook stolen and was = tramember Dr FE) Buardtite aie Biers dm hemes Marr os e . ‘
There is no finer feeling than on Sunday afternoon —Jschool’s, so-called “honor Sit Soluntarily relieved of 8 @H 3* : ae Asians form & A \ |
after your weekend honey has gone back and you and has upset me to the point that | box which contained my stereo _ A SAE nitiat BI k Oe
the guls are gathered in the hall discussing your first must express my re public. speakers. ‘The speakers were, 3 initiates ac oe
rack date.’ In the “Tales of the Hall’ you find ly fortunately, not in the box at the ( 5 in «a sieaking tisplw fd fois RW ead as om :
yourself either bragging and boasting about your ex- Last Saturday night | parked — time) 3 Wieraiisns SNE that tamed eS ee
ploits. or feigning nobleness and a sense of honor, ee Te ee ee encanta oe vg? 8 a ie " Me hig tat ‘ Wray by,
knowing all the while that it is all BS. the Woods Creek Apartments, ing for any investigation, but vm abhi CS pean the
But it is really fruitless for you to be told all this. It leading toward the site of the with the exception of the law He ce Gi kee oo j Neer bd ‘
all sounds very interesting, but you are probably pret- new library. The next day two school representative ‘i.e. Rick bok oa 7 Wagy ie. m
ty skeptical about all of the above happening. Even of my classmates alerted me Goddard), this astute “7 a yr i. : ta into
though there is a 95% chance that you considered that my car had been damaged ae dP Ep eee oO : Pro, 2d
yourself a high school stud. after this weekend many = ee ee id HE cate a aa Cpa gue ra ae ings of 8 era,
of you will feel like you have been put out to pasture. eurer panel was scraped and cheese from a local grocery be eal yy \y . deme) Pen, Ca,
Good luck! Experience is the best teacher, and after | pushed in, and the rear bumper store. At the same time, the send & Beteint a Sweatsh oO Nhe hea | Yang
this weekend you will be a W&L man one way or was bent, with one of the moun- _ E..C. does nothing to discourage : ot Ws ‘oe 1 q | ee Tigers" 4?
another : ting brackets nearly pulled out the reckless = a is o © stats tata say & : ae scone!
A closing note to those of you have been set up with ae et en for cs oe saan Sot tiane student v2) ou p 4 E- ' ® Watataly == ¥: ‘ ics os
“blind” dates by well-intentioned upperclassmen. cas present. It was no small was sauteed by his & 4 . 2 15 oy © Se pa
Your date has been described to you as either a’nice dent —— ie 4, x g E. * | z 3 ee 50 th tay piper st ‘ ' "
irl or a good girl. Sometimes this can be misleading, The sad part is that | have fraternity party jul ‘ =. c " ‘en aiien : LSW A i . { a cas FP °
Seal if this is your first blind date. You - very little doubt that the acct ee ra wae &, 4, & > @ % @ = : a \ e eo : poeented IN AEN a merit : A demands Us¢ at i tt |
never really be sure. but a 16th century poet has given —, SS ae neaet oh ta person who hit A +e a | ty 7 es > og ONC kanes oe tt =
us perhaps the best criteria for judging the quality of ue body is simply of a my car Come and tell me. You OQ» ny a e 2 << a? { un ee ee ue 4 : ay
your date: “Nice Girls go out, go home, and go to bed; higher caliber. One of my — won't have to be put up against yy 4 o ’ oO Hamtatiet ;
good girls go out, go to bed, and go home.” classmates would have told me —_ the E.C. The a is a * sn, Owtuile 0 Wat vo
j.m.g. that he had hit me, but not an —_ my system. If you do come and} ing en, % ro Asigirat :
undergraduate. It is just — tell me, my regard for you per-} "8, 7 | : NS be
another example of the wanton sonally and for the school in Cy Be ey se, } ety ce oe
carelessness | have witnessed general will be greatly] A % "4° 4% “uy > « hee : n
on the part of the heightened "eh, Me be "eng iee er Ae vey é
9 undergraduate student body I guess the moral of the story a 5 ghey 4, %e %, 6 eo. ¢, RS Ny
The law students are simply a _ is this: at Washington and Lee} | 4a 4 “ay %. & 4, © % . Sn EPP, fos: :
e higher class of people. And boys will be boys, but men (and ‘te, Maa, Sy” : Z ee FF oo es >.
most of us never had any —— women) will be law Me Sag 0 fey Gey? am Sm, “Pees Poss EM
“honor code’ when we went to nts 4 ¥! . P aa) j :
THE RING-TUM PHJ News Staff is seeking dates college. My school, Albion Col- Disgustedly, esa! —_ hy oe ty, Mon Ate ig QD ) & oath epee Pati :
for this weekend lege (Mich.), did not have anv Daniel G. Beyer, ‘79 ty a Oogrlay ty Poy ty Rog, nites Oualtee & & E See wes athe Ro : an
Editorial Note: Odd that you precisely our reaction sane “oy Sa, “% etn’ Man,? rate &> %, ee oh “oe
If interested, call Randy Smith, Mike Gallagher, or should close your letter with the reading it, oh ye of ny & May Ao, ‘a, Bo a
Lee Howard as soon as possible word “disgusting.” This was caliber... Sl * iy, G, zp a 9 n rou €

”
      

doing the job. It is a shame that the people who serve on these com-
mittees do not think so. Students do not pay their activities fee to
fund parties for public servants.

Because Washington and Lee is not set alone in this world, the
Phi chose to do some reporting on the city of Lexington. For years,
the students have had complaints about the town and vice versa. In
the past, editors had decided a “hands off”’ policy was the best ap-
proach to the problem. Theproblem, never being approached by
the students, was never approached by the city. Noise ballooned in-
to a major problem. The press’s right to public information became
another issue. The first problem was shelved, the second was settl-
ed in the press’s favor. Problems still exist, but the town now knows
the students are a force to be reckoned with.

The news staff decided to investigate W&L’s stock portfollio
because certain industries support South Africa’s apartheid policy.
Apartheid is inhuman and even though W&L has southern conser-
vative tendencies, that is no reason to support South Africa’s racist
policies. . Other universities in the nation demanded explanations
from their schools’ administrations. The Ring-tum Phi felt the
W&L student body should receive one also

The Charlie Hulfish affair was very sad. Hulfish should have left
student politics after his loan controversy arose at the
beginning of the year. The Ring-tum Phi chose to report that
Hulfish committed an honor violation when he refused to abide by
the system. The news staff felt lis presence on campus was an in-
sult to every student for whom the honor system means something.
The Phi broke precedent by printing the results of an honor trial,
but the staff felt the precedent-setting action to be in the best in-
terests of the student body. Hulfish was continuing to use the stu-
dent body for his own dessert: An honor felon should be ostracized
by the student body. The EC is supposed to do this. In failing to act,
the EC was not fulfilling its duty to the student body. In reporting
the Hulfish honor offense, the irresponsibility of the student govern-
ment and the corruption of a public official who handled student
money was brought to light. :

This was the first year in recent history that the newspaper gave

more than PR coverage to the student body elections. In the past,

only the individual candidates’ personal statements were printed.

The:Phi had been unwilling to approach the issues, as: the can-

didates were unwilling to approach the issues. This yea: the can-

didatés were presented the issues and were compelled to comment
on.them. The student body should be informed as to the candidates

feelings about all the issues. It is a newspaper’s responsibility to in-
form the student body about the issues and how the candidates feel
about them. My hope is that future editors will attempt to require
more than statements from the candidates.

Che Rank-tam Poon

t EX: STON vient AMR at

  
 

 

4 ee
t.
sed tomorow =

tees vote for coeducation

seen jGMQun tip tid de
' I

 

1) Rudite wae

nitiates Black

: display of Hult td
med t

LSWA demands use of latrin

yen

 

ei. pie,
shits int
ba met
hada VOWAL ite ee

&.

oo

 

ontact, SAB ia Trouble

The editorial position has perhaps received most of the criticism
this year. It should. Students should be applauded for caring
enough to write in. No letter has been suppressed this year.
Criticism has been invited and appreciated. Though most of the
critics have attacked the position the editor has taken, the staff has
made it a policy to print every letter, and to give preference to let-
ters criticizing over those that have praised.

From the first editorial damning the rush season to the last
editorial praising the E.C., the intention was to provoke thought.
Thought has been provoked. In some cases, action has been taken
to right wrongs. Many things still need to be done to make
Washington and Lee become closer to a utopia.

Rush is held too soon in the year and the freshmen needs are not
the primary concern of the IFC. Frats are out to meet their quotas.
The rush editorial was intended to tell the freshmen to keep their
eyes open to the true nature of rush. Whether this editorial was suc-
cessful should be a question left to the rising sophomores.

' People had been thinking it for years but everyone was afraid to
say it. The football team had real problems. Usually, a sports
editorial is not included in the editorial section, but rather in the
sports section. The editor felt since sports is such an integral part of
the life at W&L, it had a place on the editorial page. The editorial
came as close as it could without saying it — the football team need-

Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1978, Page 5
Review and Outlook reprimanded the law school for wanting to

break away from the honor system and form their own. Enough
division exists already between the two student bodies. The Phi felt
the law school should try to bridge the gap, rather than widen it. .
Student rights became a big issue when it was discovered just
what some of Student Control’s procedures were. The committee
was basically a very efficient one which overstepped its boundaries
many times. Students inside Washington and Lee should have the
same rights as students on the outside. The Phi pointed out the in-
justice of the system and demanded changes that would be in the
best interest of the student body. Never was the Phi interested in
judging any one member of SCC. The purpose was to change the
system. .
The next week, the E.C. had to be criticized for not demanding
that SAC change SCC procedure. It was another sign of E.C. inac-

tion that could not be allowed to go unnoticed.

None of the other editorials are worth mentioning. The editorials
set out to get things done. Sometimes they succeeded, other times
they didn’t. On the whole, the news staff is pleased with the

resulting outcome from its editorials.

Mq wni-dury stu1ig Apog juaepnig

iaded spueodsns pivog qng

Finally, I must approach the subject of the Rank-tam Poon. It s
follows with another objective which the staff was supposed to

strive for this year. The writers were supposed to have fun at all

 

   
 

ed a coaching change. The Phi wished no ill will toward Mr. times. That is the only way to keep the paper interesting for the §
McHenry. The editorial concerned itself with what was inthe best readers as well as the writers. The reporters had fun while in- ;
The “Rack Date” editors, though weittentorguein-choek, said fun dhawigj and itwasour hopethat thereadersbadfunreading.
e “Rack Date” editorial, though written tongue-in-cheek, sai un drawing and it was our hope tha eal , :
a lot about the dating system at Washington and Lee. It pointed out The Rank-tam Poon was the ania a = SS .
the pressures freshmen must experience to get a date for the first Other colleges have enjoyed a lampoon of their college paper. The .
big weekend. It also showed the high regard women are held inby __ staff felt W&L should be treated to one as well. It was kept a sur- ’
men. Besides making a statement, it was fun to write and to read. prise because again, it was unprecedented. The staff felt the eon
The independent exam system was defended in the editorial col- might cause the usual waves and cries of ‘‘irresponsibility” but we J
umn. The faculty was condemned for threatening to take it away. _ perservered. The staff was out to please ae student rorud ee . g é Ps
The editorial pointed out that you don’t improve something by or high water. The administration initially overreacted, the Pu
destroying its foundation. The independent exam system was r-- Board subsequently reacted and the student body was forced to act. ee =
tained. My hope is that the Ring-tum Phi will continue to laugh at itself and 3
The recall of the E.C. was suggested when the E.C. failed to _at life at Washington and Lee at least once a year. ; ,
chastise Contact for throwing a $100 party with student money. Thus ends a short presentation of the philosophy of this year’s O
Students have the legal right to recall their representatives when Ring-tum Phi. We waited until the end to present it because the
they are not doing their job. The next week, the E.C. chastised Con- _ staff felt we didn’t need to explain our reporting during the year. = =
tact, but said student body funded parties were okay for subcom- The only reason an explanation has been given now is in the hopes 3 x
mittees. that it will be of some service to future editors. 5
The “Grinch who stole Saturday’’ was another fun editorial to And for those of you who think this has been a crock, you are J > w]
write and read. It said that students were unhappy about Saturday __ right. The real reason for the philosophy of the Phi this year is, a
classes. It was written in verse because the editor felt the student _ well, we just hated everybody and wanted to show it. : = S
body ne j.m.g. - we
E.C. t 8
C. to : °
‘ 5-4-1 e lee qWestion Me * Ss a
layiicsh reece” ons 0 SEE Nider's tactics i
. y's Executive ‘ar at Mon.
nsiiiene Pfylfisl FETT pp. Saree OK |
Ct ace jor” bir e Jim J MY ge ae
ae rman DY @ es mad .orial Opinion o} King-su. Phi Z To Scuooe THEY MUST Come
= crane ong 2 get Hulfish, © ties Board. e ae id ji AMiosT TwEiR HAWG OURS
tension ject Coa rsent Act as head of : a Foon Ru
- eet tn wer. The Grinch who pra
that 7 . ly a
Siauests » gee stole Saturday si 4
wea Navarette ee
SAB votes in closed wer 35s mentecrtaceeencraset ANS
Gente,  Tieireean, ‘
e e = Po = — ae os Sa alek eae: rv E
session to get Four Tops 0e0 ota hoch mat cone, et hanes rama a
Wi ot ae ~ Say goodbye their sweet litle Friday night arta: : {i we as
wegee gre Se They must rise bright and early on this January 7 date, # “a.
ay hoe Andcome to school in a hurry and stay late, late, late! -

because “if we 24h

Se ieee
anagem ene SaGRER EE
= ine reac tr
“er the ast SAB newing dioceeed ta cats band tat TA is ~

was voted on in a closed
Hullfish said he “didn't soe ¢

by Randy Smith
The Student Activities Board
has voted overwhelmingly to
contaet the Four Tops to per-
form during Fancy Dress
Weekend, theRing-tum Phi has
learned from a confidential

Source on the SAB. I

Students sliding into our office."
He added that he felt the Stu.
van dent Activities Board "is a good
* cross ”
of the
Students, and that
eee - = SAB is

 

 

™ theip

eH

Suiuug

!
5
5
:

< pur Jay

‘Uap! UayeTsIU jo aseo ayduns

“ayesadsdp,, [az jeoemem ym

st worjsenbd ‘ey Bur

uiedxa ynoy 474 jJO a20) ays se

yp Asan sem 1 yuupe ysnus y eUS | Pesaqy Wy ]..

wq Auuny Asan

2

Wy Uowg Ispeaeiy

poof JayIes sem 1 paproep pue | LPUexyeom jee] UN) aA

 

e ys sem po Bui
Buini

Now the mean old Grinch was as delighted as could be,
and he told himself so, as he slapped his own knee,

Then the Grinch sat down, and with a couple of wheezes,

With a couple of beiches and a couple of sneezes,

He took out the calendar, a pair of scissors and turned,

To the week of the first, and then his heart yearned,

To cut out Saturday, and cut, cut he did.

He cut and he snipped and he snipped and he cut and before long,
Why even before the Lee Chapel clock struck an early morning

Before the sun rose high in the dawn,
Saturday, sweet Saturday, was gone.

Way down in Mink-ville lives a special breed of evil;

. . Saturday-stealing grinches who eat little finches.
But also in Mink-ville live the minks who are good,
They goto school during the week, like all students should.
On Sunday, it’s Sunday-school. On Monday, it's Monday-school.
On Tuesday it's Tuesday-school and on Wednesday it's Wednesday-
school. On Thursday it's J-school and even on Friday, it's C-school
But Saturdays, sweet Saturdays are to each and every mink,
No-school days, and so they rightly think!
To the minks, school on Saturday is not so very funny,
They'd miss sleeping, and minking, and even Bugs Bunny

Now the minks took this seriously, as serious as could be.

They looked under rocks, they looked behind clocks.

They looked everywhere where iookers would look,

And the answer was found in a history book!

The period of the sixties was where the answer was found.
When the children were vocal and sat on the ground

But minks are never vocal, people would misconstrue,
Minks only thirst. and do what minks do

Amidst the confusion, a speaker arose,

and opened his mouth and said on his toes.

We'll do as minks do, and stay home and sleep.”

Liberal apelogie’ to Theodor Seuss Geisel

; ten summonses for violation of
| the city's noise ordinance
' Lexington police visited

 

 

The
Nose

Knows

A certain member of the ir C
got his eye blackened at a
fraternity party last week. We
looked for a “punch"’ line con-
cerning this story but the frat
member already took it

<j
°
$
a

‘Oh, how happy | am to take Saturday away,

Oh, how happy | am that the minks must pay,

For getting an extra day with their ‘rents,

For whom I really wouldn't give a petty two cents.
Even though Monday was the day after New Year's,

am sure they only wanted it to sip a few more beers.

O
d

‘If the Grinch wants Saturday school, he can go, and take a leap.

JMB

suo1jejay umox - uNOT

asION SATB L OAL

FIGI, SPE too noisy

Police raid fraternities

Two Washington and Lee
fratecnity presidents were
taken to Lexington police head
quarters by city police late
Saturday night, and issued writ-

Success. In Chief Kirby's eyes,
the police department has done
“everything possible’ to main-
tain good relations with the
Students, “but when the (City:
Council passes an ordinar-

is our duty to see it's e-

Fiji house short!
pm. and ga

that the

i:

Chief Kirby
reporter's

Epsilon and Phi *2™*
Gamma Delta fraternities, both

Tradition continues to remain an important aspect of this fine old
institution. A prime example of this 1s the football team’s tradition
of losing The student body has come to expect a nonwinning
season, From the football team and trom the team’s showing in the
first three games. it looks like we won't be disappointed

The team has not really looked bad In-fact. the offense has im
proved since last year, and the defense has been steadily improving
this year. Against Lock Haven State, no matter how corny it
sounds, it seemed as if the time really diu run out on the Generals
We were definitely outclassed against Davidson, to the point that
they should never have been scheduled. Though these two games
were host, we really can't feel too upset about them The team
played as well as could be expected under the circumstances

What we can be upset about is the loss of the last game to Centre
College The Generals played well for most of the game. perhaps
the best they have played all year Then finding themselves behind
by one point with three minutes to go. they gave the game away
under the direction of the coaching staff, Why the coaches elected
to put in a freshman quarterback to run the option play when the
outcome of the game was still undecided is a perturbing question

No matter how good a runner Leiser is. and this 1s not to take
anything away from him, a freshman backup QB whose only play
ing experience this year has been as a running back. should not
have been given the job of directing the offense at such a crucial
time There is just too much pressure in a situation like that to put
upon his shoulders. But even more importantly, a passing strategy

was called for, and our team sources have said that Letser is just
not competent in this area

The second string QB Scott Swope is supposed to be a competent
Passer. Swope is a junior, who. if not anything else, has two more
years of maturity than a freshman. Granted. Swope does not have
much play time experience ‘and we question this due to this year's
record), but he is a passer and a passer was needed in this par-
ticular situation We are not suggesting that the game would
definitely have been won had Swope been put in immediately after
Hissey's injury, but our chances almost undoubediy would have
been increased The coaches did put Swope in te do what Leiser
couldn't, but there were only 29 seconds left on the clock

This indecision and misdecision is reminiscent of the 1975 Centre
College game when after being behind 9-4. the Generals scored with
seconds remaining on the clock, and the coaches elected to try out
their two point conversion play instead of going for the almost sure

win by kicking the extra point’ Another case is last year at
Hampden-Sydney when coaching indecision concerning what was
going. on on the field when a field goal was obviously ealled for and
the coaches’s lack of concentration led toa delay of game penalty,
which resulted in a short field goal attempt

The coaching staff has been out to lunch. There is no coordination
and communication between the couches Indecision is com
monplace, not rare It appears that the team has no coaching
leadership, as evidenced by the above games which resulted in not
ches for the lost column The head couch ts suppesed io make the
important decisions when they need to be made. net just concern
himself with the detensive backticld Coaeh McHenry, where are
you when you are needed”

The team has the potential to have a winning season this year
But we wonder whether tradition will be broken unless some

leadership decisions or changes are made IMG

: Big Daddys Never Die!

 
Page 6, Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1978

  
  

THE

 

RING-TUM PHI

  

Tennis Team Finishes

Second in Nation

by Mike Farrand
Washington and Lee’s tennis
team is now the school’s highest
nationally ranked team. Last

week in Ohio it battled other

Division III schools, competed
intensely, and returned the na-
tion’s number two team. Tennis
USA might have forecast a dif-
ferent result, as they had rank-
ed W&L number ‘1, but no one
was too disappointed. Indeed if
one asks Doug Gaker, who
played in the tournament, why
they finished only second he
retorts, ‘‘Why don’t you ask us
why we didn’t finish fifth or
sixth? That’s how it would
have been if we had played each
team head-to-head; tho teams
were that good.”

The same response comes
from the coach. Dennis Bussard
said: “I’m pleased. We all
played beyond our potential. We
didn't get one of the better
draws either.’’ Ben Johns, as an
indication, lost in the semi-
finals but had to beat the
number one seeded player, who

had not lost a match all year, to °

‘ get there. Johns only lost to
Alexanderson from Claremont
6-3, 6-7 (2-5), 6-4. Cody Davis
also played well, winning the
most crucial point for the
Generals. That was in the first
round against Claremont’s
number 4 man, Werner. He beat
him 7-5, 5-7, 6-4. If he had lost,
the Generals would have come
in third because Claremont
placed third only a point behind
W&L. Davis lost in the next
round 6-0, 6-3, to Bussert who
went on to become the national
champion.

The Johns-Jackson doubles
team, that won the title last
year, placed second this year,
losing to Kalamazoo’s Hosner-
Bussert in the finals. Says

 

Gondoliers
Win! !!!

The Ring-tum Phi
Muckrakers were defeated
14-10 by the WLUR Gondoliers.
The game took place last Fri-
day. The Muckrakers have
demanded a rematch to be held
today at3p.m.

The Gondoliers had practiced
several times before the Friday
match. The Muckrakers took
the field inexperienced. Yet, the
Muckrakers held a 10-4 ad-
vantage going into the sixth inn-
ing. A flurry of hits placed the
Gondoliers in the lead to stay.

 

 

 

Bussard, “They could have
played better but Kalamazoo
won the tournament and that
doubles team was as good as the
team.” Kalamazoo who had 20
victory points while W&L
followed with 12, ‘‘The tourna-
ment has never been dominated
like Kalamazoo did this year,”
states Bussard.

Reflecting on this year’s ten-
nis, Bussard is justifiably pleas-
ed. ‘We always say on this
team that if you play up to your
potential you can live with
yourself, and this team played
beyond their potential at times
and we are all finding it easy to
do just that,’’ sates the coach
about the success of this year.
‘We played a tough schedule
(75 percent Division I teams)
this year but we did well. Our
overall record, in fact, was
10-12.” He explained that the
schedule paid large dividends
at the national tournament.

The team had some bright
stars. ‘‘I’d say Gaker and Con-
stine are the most improved
players on the team,”’ he says,
“Doug changed his game to a
serve-and-volley and _ that
helped it immensely. David
Constine, too, raised the level of
his game considerably.’’ The
top three players, Johns,
Jackson and David, all played
well but nobody expected them
not to.

It looks as though tennis ex-
cellence is in Lexington to stay,
too. Ben Johns graduates this
year and Cody Davis is
transferring to Vanderbilt, but
many more great players will
be stepping in their places. In-
deed Bussard has labelled this
year ‘‘the greatest recruitment
year in Washington & Lee’s
history.’’ One recruit may be
the best tennis player to ever
come to this school. That honor
goes to Shaw Cranfield from
Houston, Texas. He is_ the
number 10 state player in the
eighteen and under category,
and was U. Va.’s number 1 pro-

spect for this year, but he chose.

WA&L for its size. Others include
John Daniel of Tulsa’
Oklahoma, who’s brother plays
number 1 for Duke, Tim Baird
who plays number 3 on the
number 1 school team in Texas,
and Weston Yonge. Richard
Makepeace also returns next
year to round out what should
be W&L’s most successful ten-
nis team ever.

For Coach Dennis Bussard,
who goes to Boston next year as
the basketball coach for Bab-
son, Washington and Lee has
only great appreciation for a
coaching jobwell done: :

 

W&L Lacrosse — What
Does the Future hold?

By Jim Barnes

After 12 goals and 12 strains of
‘““Give My Regards to
Broawdway”’, the adopted fight
song of Cornell University, one
senior paused to reflect on the
future of lacrosse at
Washington and Lee. In four
years and many Saturdays
spent at Wilson Field, he had
seen W&L drop from being fifth
ranked nationally, to slipping
into the playoffs as the ninth
nationally-ranked team at the
end of the regular season. For
the two years prior to this
senior’s tenure, the final season
polls recognized W&L as the
third be-st Division I team in
the country.

For the lacrosse team 1978
was a year of unfortunate

f 1 ane Oi es

““firsts’’. It was the first time in
five years that the team lost to
the University of Virginia. It
was the first time in seven and
nine years that we were
defeated by Duke and Roanoke
College respectively.

The question is, can W&L
realistically entertain ideas of
capturing a national champion-
ship amidst the growing
popularity of lacrosse among
Division I schools?

W&L’s head lacrosse coach
Jack Emmer is faced with the
unenviable task of trying to sell
W&L’s ‘“‘charms’’ to prospec-
tive recruits, while Johns
Hopkins and Maryland are han-
ding out scholarships. Only Cor-
nell bound by Ivy League
restrictions has a similar con-
straints placed on them. Even
then, Cornell can provide their
deserving players financial aid
on the basis of grants alone,
while W&L more often than not,
disributes its financial aid in a
composite form of grant, loan,
and work-study.

In pondering the above facts
one may wonder if W&L’s lac-
rosse team will ever regain the
prominance it once held in 1973
and 1974.

But perhaps the postmortems

are a bit premature. As one
senior said before the quater-
final contest in Ithica two
Wednesdays ago, ‘‘We’re only
three games away from the na-
tional championship.”

It was an achievement that
Washington and Lee was on the
game’s program cover. Not
many coaches could guide their

team to post season competition ~

having lost ten starters to
graduation and early season
defections. But Emmer, a
three-time lacrosse Coach-of-
the-Year, did not dwell on his
team’s depleted condition. In-
stead he took a team to the
playoffs that he admits ‘‘from
an ability standpoint, was the
weakest’”’ he has coached at

It is interesting to compare
W&L’s last two losses to the
Redmen of Cornell, both in first
round playoff competition. In
1976 the Generals were shut-out
14-0. This year the team scored
twice, and shaved Cornell’s
margin of victory to ten.

Both the ’76 and ’78 Cornell
teams had six All-Americans
starting for them. The ‘78
Redmen squad might be better
than the ’76 team starting seven

seniors and three juniors, all

veterans of the two previous
championship seasons.

On the other hand the °78
W&L unit was missing the ser-
vices of two °76 All-American
defensemen and the substan-
tially more potent ‘76 offense.
Although the Generals were
out-gunned by Cornell, they
were not outfought, as the team
displayed some of the most
ferocious checking ever
witnessed by a W&L fan.

Perhaps there is a goal for
some lacrosse players that is
equal to, or at the very least, a
close second behind winning a

national championship. That —

goal might be to play for a

 
   

nonathletic scholarship, small,
primarily division III school, to
compete with the division I
powers and their scholarships,
and beat them. That spirit, that
“‘etan'’, wil
characterize a W&L lacro-sse
team. With it, and the backing
of some of the nation’s most en-
thusiastic and loyal lacrosse
fans, the climb back to the top is
not impossible, but inevitable.

Fallon Holds Spring
Drills for Football

Washington and Lee’s new
football coach, Jack Fallon,
recently held a series offlex-
ibMty and agility workouts for
anyone “interested inworking
up a big sweat in a hurry.”
While all students were
welcome to attend, the majority
of the students were foot-
ballplayers, which impressed
Fallon.

Washington and Lee is a Divi-
sion III school, and according to
Division III regulations, no
member schooi can hold a spr-
ingfootball practice. The princi-
ple reason for the rule is the

high cost of football practice,

which requires insurance for
each player.

Fallon said he would like to
see the rule changed to permit
non-contact drills during the
spring. Football is the only ma-
jor sport that does not have off-
season practice at W&L. ‘‘The
type of athlete we get here
would benefit from a week of
work on technique and skills,”’
Fallon said. The players would
also have a reduced chance of
injury during the season with
improved priming and techni-
que.

always —

— en

 
 

Brown in action earlier in season. Wins Wheelwright Award.

 

 

photo by Neil Sheehan

Letters To The Editor

Dear Editor:

I learn from friends that this
edition of the Ring-tum Phi is
the last issue with you, Mr.
Gallagher, as the editor.

At this time then, I would like
to be counted among those who
are sad to see your term end. I
feel that this year you have
served well as editor. The

Seniors

(continued from page 1)

ed.
We might also recall the
freshman who was chained to
the bicycle rack in the Quad and
his subsequent rage. The Class
of ‘78 undoubtedly brought
more life and rowdiness with
them to the freshman dorms
than any class in_ recent
memory. The memories are
good and numerous.

Most of us have worked hard
and played hard. The percen-
tage of five-year men is not any
higher than in classes
preceding ours.

As in the past, many of us will
continue our education at some
of the finest graduate. and pro-
fessional schools here and
abroad. Then again, there are
those of us who will rise no
higher in occupational status
than the W&L alumnus who
runs the Ferris Wheel on Coney
Island.

So we leave Washington and
Lee. For most, it has been a
good four years that hopefully
will serve us well in the future.

We will receive on Thursday,
a sheepskin (or a receipt for
$25,000) that reflects the condi-
tioning and education of one of
the country’s strong academic
institutions. Whether we
employ it to take us to positions
of leadership or to the Ferris
Wheel at Coney Island, few will
claim that they acquired it
while simply marking time.

Woe tt ot OO

critical analysis to which you _ trying.
have subjected this university Gary Goodenow
and all aspects of ithas beenof —_ near ditor:

enormous value in that this can
help all of us improve the situa-
tion at Washington and Lee.
Your paper has taught us that
we must be unwilling to witness
or permit the slow undoing by
anyone (especially those in stu-

It seems to me there is a
logical contradiction between
two of your recent editorials. In
one of the editorials you main-
tain, if I understand you rightly,
that it is a student’s privilege to
do anything he wants during a

Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1978, Page 7

 

' Forest Fletcher Cross-Country TrophyAllen W. Weeks

Awards Presented

The following list of awards were presented to Washington and
‘Lee athletes at the Sports Banquet on Tuesday night.
E. G. Leslie Pitching Award-Dale S. Childs
Coaches Baseball Trophy-Robert A. Szczecinski
Tommy Baker Batting Award-Theodore W. Hissey
W&L Basketball Award-Patrick F. Dennis
Coaches and Captains Basketball Award-David E. Leunig
Billy Davis Memorial Basketball Award-Mac E. Rein Jr.
Alumui Basketball Award-Robert P. Forlenza
Leigh Williams Memorial Basketball Award-Patrick F. Dennis

Captains Cross Country TrophyWilliam G. Welch
C. J. Harrington Memoriai Football Award-Jeffrey L. Slatcoff and
Carl K. Folick

Clovis Moomaw Football Award-T. Mark Duncan

Don Ray Justice Memorial Football AwardStewart Atkinson

Lee McLaughlin Football Award-Martin L. Piccoli II

Felix Smart Memorial Golf Award-Gerald L. Maatman Jr.

Cy Twombly Most Improved Golfer-David E. Leunig

T. W. Martin Memorial Lacrosse Award-Mark H. Derbyshire
Wheel Wright Memorial Lacrosse Award-Charles V. Brown III

Jay Stull Memorial Lacrosse Award-Robert J. Williams

Atlanta Alumni Most Improved Lacroose Pla yer-Christopher E.
Walsh

C. W. Pacy Jr. Memorial Lacrosse Award-James E. Herbert

Jim Trundle Soccer Trophy-William M. Stone

Coaches Soccer Trophy-Reynolds Dods

D. D. Redmond Defensive Soccer Award-Arthur G. Barriault

R. G Lathrop Offensive Soccer Award-William M. Stone

Memorial Swimming Award-John S. Hudson

Most Improved Swimmer-Mark W. Hampton

Twombly-Eastman Swimming Trophy-Peter B. Meem

Memorial Tennis Cup-Benjamin I. Johns

Washburn Outstanding Freshman Tennis Award-Cody F. Davis
Forest Fletcher Track and Field Trophy-John H. Norberg
Memorial Track and Field Trophy-Richard G. Bird Jr.

Coaches Track and Field Trophy-Allen W. Weeks

D. C. Montgomery Captains Freshman Wrestling Trophy-David G.
Stoeffel

A. E. Mathis War Memorial Wrestling Trophy Howard F. Knipp
Burt Haaland Memorial Waterpolo Award-Keith B. Romick

Most Improved Water Polo Player-William H. Hodges

Outstanding Freshman Athlete- James E. Herbert

Wink Gasgow Spirit and Sportsmanship Award T. Mark Duncan
And Jeffrey L. Slatcoff

 

Preston R. Brown Most Valuable Athlete AwardJohn S. Hudson

 

dent government) of all that is ovie in the duPont theatre and

good here. throw it on the floor to be clean-
The Ring-tum Phi, under your ed up by buildings and acm
leadership, has been at the head Two weeks you call him a

of this effort to improve things cad, nota gentleman, etc. Can’t

here. And for that service, I * buildings and grounds clean up
thank you and your staff. At after him too?

least it seemed that while you James K. Shillington
were editor, that someone was Chemistry

 

 

The Alexander-Withrow House
3 West Washington Street
Antique Shop & Country Inn

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites
AAA and COUNTRY INNS AND BACK ROADS. A different
experience in overnight hospitality for those who love fine things.
Students may make reservations for their parents and tour the
house from 10-5 daily. Wednesday until 2:00 or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas.

 

 

   
 

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St.

Te ee
RS

STUDENTS

Make This Headquarters For

Good Food and

Service
in a fine atmosphere
of quality.

SOUTHERN INN

 
     

   
 

Lexington, Va.

.
a i te) te oe i

   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|

 

    
   

é

A

    

‘

OLD FASHIONED SALE
May 31st & June Ist
12:00 to 2:00 p.m.

— CA

   
     

Be NS Sy

ot Witt ct ti

ce my mms ALE le
dict LS Lik hur HH wi ral i! I ("| iby - bal
Se Lae ces a Bi Py vy
Kb it re et era

ise

‘. ‘ aa
I cy
i ae

\\

: page tee ee: [A # .

SNES

— ar

- e= frit.
i. i i
' ss a ‘
ne neg, RPTL aut tieer
ah med
Hilt "1 |
ee } i

“a |
47, ’ o

'
“?
+ ot
' y he q
es '

REMEMBER WHEN: Freshmen wore beanies, garters
were fashionable, we danced to the W&L Swing and a
dollar was worth a dollar? We do! This can be your ex-
perience also during our sale! Memorabilia, gifts, clothes
and school supplies are on sale for 1c to $5.00. Enjoy
browsing and a free lemonade.

UNIVERSITY SUPPLY STORE
SALE AT ODK CIRCLE

 

 
Page 8, Ring-tum Phi, May 19, 1978

Honor Code Changes

(continued from page 1)

realistically reflected by giving
the EC jurisdiction in “Lex-
ington, Rockbridge County, or
whenever a student represents
himself as being a student at
Washington and Lee. Hence,
there may be many things
reprehensible and heartily con-
demned by the EC and all good
citizens which still cannot be
brought under the honor
system.”’

Another change was _in-
stituted that requires that a stu-
dent found guilty in an EC hear-
ing, and not appealing his case
. must leave within 48 hours. The
President of the EC may extend
this time period. There had not
been any time limit before. This
presented problems when a stu-
dent found guilty but not ap-

pealing the EC verdict to a stu-*

dent body hearing would re-
main around campus. The pro-
vision also delineates respon-
sibility,. saying that the ad-
ministration is responsible for
the student’s removal.

The advisors are also now
able to question any witnesses
that appear before the EC. The
accused was the only one able to
ask questions of the witnesses
before, with the result that ad-
visors to the accused would
whisper questions to the accus-
ed, and he in turn would repeat
the questions out loud to the
witnesses. Several EC
members felt that advisors may
be able to intimidate witnesses,
but it was agreed to try the
change and see if it works.

There will be more student
representation in the initial in-
vestigations into possible
breaches of the honor system.
Before,
would investigate a possible
violation, and two of the three
had to decide to bring the mat-
ter to the attention of the full
EC. Now, there will be two EC
members and a student from
the same school within the
university as that of the
suspected student.

The accused may also know
the identity of all adverse
witnesses at the time that he is
charged with an honor viola-
tion. Previously, the accused
was not told what witnesses
would be testifying against him.
There is a provision included,
however, if the accused tries to
intimidate the adverse
witnesses. It reads that the E.C.
“will view such actions un-
favorable to the accused ‘‘

The time that it takes to
prepare for a student body
hearing should be shortened
with another provision. It was
accepted practice for the tape
recording of an EC hearing to
be transcribed in preparation
for a student body hearing. The
White Book limits such

three EC members —

 

Central Lunch
The Warmest
Hospitality

Good Food
Cold Kegs

Mr. & Mrs. Duck’s

 

transcripts for case prepara-
tion, however, so the EC hear-
ing cannot be replayed at a stu-
dent body hearing. The EC has
decided that this accepted prac-
tice is not to the advantage of
the EC nor the accused. The
tape can be played for the ac-
cused and the EC with both tak-
ing notes from it. This process
usually took a day or two and
has now been eliminated.
Another change enables a stu-
dent found guilty at either the
EC hearing or student body
hearing to have his transcript
sent to other schools without
any notations’ made about his
being found guilty of an honor

‘violation. The provision states

that a university record shall be
kept of students found guilty. If
a student withdraws after being
charged but before an honor
hearing, his university record
shall make a note of it. The
university record is thus
separate from an academic
transcript sent to other schools.

There were a total of fifteen
changes made to the White
Book. The other ten changes
cleared the wording or in-
stituted accepted practice into
the White Book. Overall, the
emphasis was on the rights of
the accused without becoming
preoccupited with the  pro-
cedural aspects of the honor
system.

Another result of law students
questioning parts of the pro-
cedures is that there will be an
orientation to the honor system
for the first year law students
this fall. In the last few years
there has not been one, but
plans are being made by the
new EC to do this.

VO

16 N. Main

Sundays

16 W. Washington St.

 

 

 

 

i ki J a ee NVBSTESE =H Fe \s* ee ke,

For complete trip arrangements

CALL 463-2197

HERRING
TRAVEL INC.”

Webster Wins

William M. Webster IV of
Greenville, S.C. has been nam-
ed the recipient of the G.
Holbrook Barber Honor
Scholarship at Washington and
Lee University here, where he
will be a senior next year.

The Barber’ Scholarship,
established last year by Mrs.
Barber in honor of the memory
of her late husband, is awarded
to the undergraduate senior at
W&L who has “made the
greatest contribution to the
spirit of the campus and univer-
sity life,’ taking into account
participation in university ac-
tivities, helpfulness toward

Resigns

(continued from page 1)
had this to say, ‘‘The pressure
was just getting to be too much.
I couldn’t take it any longer. A
person can take only so much
personal abuse and criticism. I
am a nervous wreck now. I can
hardly study for my exams.”’

Washington Hall was secretly
overjoyed when the news was
released on the wire services. A
source inside the Hall told the
RTP, ‘Gallagher has been a
thorn in our side all year. Good
riddance I say.”’

The official Washington Hall
statement was more favorable
towards Gallagher. “‘It is the
wish of Washington and Lee the
Mr. Gallagher will devote as
much time to his studies next
year as he has to the newspaper
so he can graduate from this in-
stitution. His contribution to the
paper has been quite un-
forgetable.”’

M. Gray Coleman has been
chosen by the Publications
Board to fill the editor position
next year. Coleman has been
noticably absent from the paper
the last few weeks though hav-
ing served as Entertainment
Editor earlier in the year.

The College Inn

463-5230

Lunch-Dinner-Cocktails
Weekdays 11:00 a.m. - 1 a.m.
Fri. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 2.a.m.

12 Noon - 12 Midnight

_ Carry Out Service, Also
SEE US FOR YGUR KEG BEER!

_———————_________________—_—___.
GETTING THERE

IS HALF THE FUN!!!
a 2

2£

Lexington i

 

  
   
     
     
     
   
     
      
    
 
     
       

 

 

others, respect for fellow
students, character, and
academic achievements.

He was inducted this winter
into membership in Omicron
Delta Kappa, the national
honorary leadership society
which was founded at
Washington and Lee in 1914. He
was one of only five juniors tap-
ped for membership.

The Holbrook Barber
Scholarship is awarded by a
special committee consisting of
the dean of The College, W&L’s
liberal arts and sciences divi-
sion, and two student represen-
tatives designated by the presi-
dent of the university.

Graduation

(continued from page 1)

division, and more than 60 will
receive the B.A. from the
School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics.

Receiving bachelor of science
degrees in commerce will be 70
students, while 45 will receive
the B.S. degree from The Col-
lege.

The School of Law will confer
the juris doctor degree on 71
students. The J.D. is the first
professional law degree and has
replaced the old LL.B. degree
at Washington and Lee and
many other law schools.

Five honorary degrees will be
awarded as well. By tradition,
the names of those persons will
not be revealed until the beginn-
ing of commencement week
itself.

Izod shirts in all colors

and Austin-Hill

Cole - Haan

Pick Up Your
Summer Clothing Needs
Before Leaving Lexington—
Get Big City Fashions For

Small Town Prices At

- Aluin-Dennis

The areas widest selection of Madras:
shirts, slacks, ties, belts, swimwear, sportcoats

Summer suits and sportcoats by Deansgate

Tennis outfits by Izod, Jockey and Berle

A fine selection of shoes by Bass, Topsider and

Be sure to stop by after that last exam and let
us help make vou simmer more enjovable

VISA, MASTERCHARGE
AND

PERSONAL ACCOUNTS WELCOME

Ariel review

(continued from page 3)

generally illiterate reader such
as I. Granted Chip Rush has
every right as an artist to in-
troduce ‘‘Squadron--Love’’ with
an untranslated ode from
Horace. Parker Potter as editor
should have been more sym-
pathetic to his readers and
should have included an
English translation. Even*my
Milton edition has footnotes!

I like e.e. cummings and so I
guess I am prejudiced. Mike
Odom’s poem “Leaving Lex-
ington” had great appeal for
me. Short, sweet, and almost
unpunctuated, I loved it. But
then I am known for my ques-
tionable taste.

Chris Volk’s picture tour of
Europe was a welcome and at-
tractive addition to the ariel. I
am surprised, however, that he
was the only photographer or
visual artist featured. This
should be corrected in future

_ editions. I am no photography
critic, but why did I keep expec-

ting Mrs. Volk Sr. to be standing
there, waving to me from the
Eiffel Tower? I must have
problems--the family album on
the brain.

Parker Potter did a good, but
not a great job as editor. A few
of the pieces were simply not of
the quality required for even a
college magazine, but perhaps,
Potter did not have a large
selection of work from which to
choose. There were typos,
anathema I think in a publica-
tion such as this. In a few places
the layout was extremely poor,
something which should be
looked to in future ariels.

a if oO 4 “4 Zz Oo

   
 

=
