    

wo paw
9%

2 - an
ONS
on cag

The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

 

 

Volume LXVIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 15, 1968

Number 8

 

 

Lee Halford and Sam Hinkle

 

—Photo by Waelder

 

Hinkle, Halford selected
for Rhodes Scholarships

Sam Hinkle and Lee Halford have
been approved by the faculty as candi-
dates from Washington and Lee for
Rhodes Scholarships to Oxford.

Hinkle, senior from Shelbyville,
Kentucky, will compete with candi-
dates from other institutions who live
or attend college in a district com-
prising six Ohio Valley states. Hal-
ford, senior from Richardson, Texas,
will compete in a district running
from Alabama southwestward.

Halford has a cumulative of 3.92,

was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and
ODK in his junior year, is a pitcher
on the baseball team and has his
varsity letter. He was elected a mem-
ber of the Executive Committee in
his junior year, was treasurer of the
Sophomore Class, and has been presi-
dent of the Young Democrats. He
is treasurer of Beta Theta Pi fra-
ternity, a member of Beta Gamma
Sigma, and a major in Business Ad-
ministration,

Hinkle has a straight 4.0 average.
was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and

Writer Kuehnelt-Leddihn
of National Review gives
program in Lee Chapel

Erik von Kuehnelt-Leddihn, novel-
ist and writer for “National Review,”
will deliver a lecture tonight on
“Crisis in Czechoslovakia.” His
speech, which will begin at 7:30 p.m.
in Lee Chapel, is being sponsored by
the Washington and Lee Young Re-
publicans.

In 1935 he came to the United
States from Austria to teach at Beau-
mont College, and later he taughi at
Georgetown University, St. Peter's

College, Fordham University and
Chestnut Hill College

Among the novels written by
Kuehnelit-Leddihn are “Gates ofl
Hell,” “Nights Over the East” and
“Black Banners. Also he has con
tributed articles to many American

and European journals

| ODK in his junior year, is a member
|of the football and track teams, is
captain of the track team and secre-
itary of the Varsity Club. He was
| elected a member of the Executive
| Committee as a freshman, and was
fon the Student Control Committee.
iHe is chairman of CONTACT for
| 1969, He is an officer in his fraternity,
| Delta Tau Delta, a holder of several
' scholarships, and a major in eco-
| nomics.

i solve

 

Last night the IFC unanimously |

| passed a motion calling for the crea-

tion of a joint faculty-student com-
mittee to study the problem of rush
at W&L. The committee in the IFC's |
opinion would be the best way to)
the conflict between the ma-|
jority of the faculty and the stu tent

body as to which system of rua is
most beneficial to Washingion and
Lee.

The motion, the text of which is

published in this paper, cited previous
surveys to chow that deferred rush
does not improve scholastic achieve-
ment, and in the context of Lexing-
ton would be socially prohibitive.
Walter Lockhart stated that the social
responsibility of the fraternities was
incompatible with the maintaining of
the fraternity’s self-interest in the
matter and that the newly-created
committee could best resolve these
two conflicting needs.

Danny Leonard felt that due to
the unique situation of the Lexington
environment, the faculty-student com-
mittee would be the best possible
means to thrash out a rush system
compatible to both the students and
the faculty. John Carrere felt that he
could not proceed any further in con-
sidering the IFC’s proposal until he
was assured that the faculty would
take steps to create an adequate social
life for the freshman class.

Dr. Atwood, the faculty advisor to
the IFC, attempted to interpret the
reactions of the faculty to the resolu-
tion, He cited that rush had been
discussed and analyzed frequently
during the last several years and that

| this debate had been especially intense

 

Inauguration, Homecoming plans
24 college presidents will |Hampden-Sydney meets

attend University ceremony
By MAC WOODWARD

Assistant News Editor

Robert E. R. Huntley will be
inaugurated in a single ceremony Fri-
day morning at 11 a.m. on the front
lawn of the campus.
| Among the participants are repre-
sentatives from 89 colleges, 19 learn-
ed societies and professional organi-
zations, 3 foundations, and the stu-
i dent body. The student representatives
| were chosen from the upperclassmen
| leaders.

The invocation will be given by Rev.
John Newton Thomas, Th.D., a mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees. Rev.
Huston St. Claire, Rector of the Uni-
versity, will administer the oath to
President Huntley.

President William Friday of the
University of North Carolina will de-
liver the inaugural address. President
Huniley will follow with his accept-
ance speech. The benediction will be
given by Rev. David Spruni, Uni-
versity Chaplain.

Student representatives whe will
participate in the academic pro-
cession should assemble on the sec-
end floor of Newcomb Hall not
later than 16:30 a.m. Friday, Octo-
ber 18,

 

 

W&L in Saturday game
By CAL WHITEHURST

 

Associate News Editor

Nearly four hundred out-of-town)
guests, alumni and their wives are
expected to return to Washington and
Lee for the annual Homecoming
game, according to Mr. William C.
Washburn, Executive Secretary of the
Alumni Association.

Returning alumni will register at
the Alumni House beginning at 9
am. on Saturday; a coffee will be
given in the Alumni House at ten-
thirty. The alumni luncheon, to take
place in Evans Dining Hall, will last
from noon until one-thirty.

At 2 p.m. Washington and Lee
will play Hampden-Sydney in the

Homecoming game. The half-time
festivities will be highlighted by the
presentation of the Homecoming
representatives and the selection of
the Homecoming queen. Half-time
music will be provided by the Cave
Spring High School Band.

The alumni will return to the
Alumni House for a post-game cock-
tail party and victory celebration at
S$ p.m. This party will mark the con-

‘The way I see it’

fy J. D. HUMPHRIES

Hiead Dormitory Counselor

The proposed rush program fas
been the source of considerable con
over the past year. On
of ratification, of its
jection well be advisable
examine some of the practical rami-
fications ihe program

Deferred rush will resolve a peren
nial freshman dilemma. Many
men affive Washington and
knowing nothing aboui fraternities
Washington and Lee, and must, in one

troversy

eve its of re

ii May

ol

fresh
at I ee

ul

week, determine whether they wish to|

become a fraternity member. De
ferred rush will enable freshmen to)
familiarize themselves with the fra-

ternily
Lee, and hopetully

on is

enable them
ralhet
will

evaluate merits

on its superficialities. H also

afford freshmen who decide that they)

 

  

 

the |

to;

    

siructure at Washington and)

than|

ify DR. FREDERICK L. SCHWAB
Fs

ully Contributer

the hope of furthering discus
The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi
soliciting faculty opinion on both the
thods of deferred rush
of all emphasize that

In

sion, is

 

merits and |

 

the
following is my opinion, rather than
the faculty opinion. | suspect that the
opinion the
deferred rush is
should

only miaporiiy among

facuily concerning
that uo will and

ashington

iH

thal
fraternities will
fall,
i sugges! some possible mechanics based
my experiences as an undegradu
attended Darimouth College
liberal arts college (3.000
tidents) located in a New Hampshire
the

piine the initial premise

ind Lee

|W

have deferred rush next let me

an
ate. |

: i sual
iti ill fiiate

town half size of Lexingion and

j twice as Femole [rom womens col

 
   
 

 

 

wish to become fraternity members) liately emphasize that
ample time fo defermime What fra-/ 1 of women and the
ternities ihey afe iMferestad in j them

Hopefully the n rushine will "i img on

 

in order to attract

hex aie

 

inspire fraternal

freshmen io

(Continued on Page 4)

es

fruive cann

 
 

whal the fraternity
staioem «4 af) aPoul af a achoaol ihe
i (Continued on Page 4)

| appropriate

clusion of the scheduled round of
Homecoming entertainment.
hy DANNY LEONARD
Ftudent Body Vice President
Last nights meeting of the IFC

left me with one outstanding impres-
sion; that that much confusion
exists concerning the purpose of the
motion about deferred rush. My pur
pose here thines straicht
once and for all as to just what the
meaning of thal motion is, and what
we hope to gain by it

In order the widest range
of possibilities, | think it would be
begin by defining
exacily whai the motion is not

(1) It is not an irresponsible act of

is

is tO sel

io cover

id

 

schoolboys aimed ai defying the
faculty

(2) lt is not a hair-brained scheme
on the part of a few interesied stu
dents 10 maintain the status quo of
the present rush sysiem

(3) Above all, Ht is fol a poiftiess

offering nothing constructive

Rather than expanding on exactly
why the motion is not each of
lake a po
and explain whal .
We ' ilifve

Arcies!i
prote

these

things, | will instead

 

 

LU se

 

that it is late for

 

(Continued on Page 4)

IFC hedges; Atwood uncertain

 

beginning with the faculty resolution
of November 1966 when the faculty
passed the first of a series of motions

News analysis

being their chief spokesman, feel that
any feasible deferred rush system

 

dealing with deferred rush.

Dean Atwood felt that any plan
submitted to the faculty that put rush
before classes would be completely
unacceptable. He felt that because the
IFC had known for 1% years that
a deferred rush was coming, that
this resolution would actually en-
danger rush in February, and that
if the IFC did not present a plan to
the faculty for their November meet- |
ing they would be inviting faculty in-|
terference an dthe possibility of rush
after the second semester of the fresh-
man year.

In other action, social chairman, |
Dave Stovall, announced that the
Homecoming representatives should! are 18 fraternity
be at the PiKA House next Friday at! doubtedly 18 di
7 p.m. to be introduced at the pep| hopes behind the

(Continued on Page 4)

w

What

were

faculty's deferred

 

cerned with the
system. What
change?

Several

By REEVE KELSEY

News
the
fraternity presidents that made them
suddenly stand up and protest the

bate or, perhaps, the grilling of Dean
Atwood was focused on a defense of
the present system as opposed to the
debate of a week ago that was con-

brought

As Dean Atwood constantly quips,
there are 120 members of the faculty
and he is but one of them, so there

different

presidents,

would deny a decent freshman social
life. They see no reason to further
burden the unpleasant freshman year
with even more restrictions and limi-
tations. They seek firm assurances
from the University that freshman
living quarters and social regulations
will be drastically improved before
any system of deferred rush is insti-
tutied,

Another group generally feels that
the faculty, who has for a long ab-
stained from considering or protecting
the non-academic facets of W&L, has
abrogated its power in this area and
has little no right to order the
fraternities to change.

What will be the outcome of this
resolution? Will the faculty seek to
assert its power? Will this assertion
be good for the University? Will the

Editor

forces behind the

rush fiat? The de-

best rush

this

deferred
about

or

presidents and un-
motives and
motion.

John Carrere

 

(Continued on Page 4)

rAd Ww

Text of IFC resolution

At last week’s meeting, the proposal prepared by
the deferred rush committee was discussed. After 15
months of study, that committee submitted a deferred
rush plan calling for not contact between freshmen and
upperclassmen for one semester. It is that committee's
judgment that of all possible plans for deferred rush,
this is the most feasible one, being more consistent with
the edict of the faculty and having fewer disadvantages
than other plans. A Ring-tum Phi writer labeled this
long-considered plan unrealistic, impractical and “phan-
tasmogoric buffoonery.” We tend to agree with that
writer. But let us point out hat the fault does not
lie, in our opinion, with the deferred rush committee:
rather it lies with the conception and application of
deferred rush to the unique situation found among
Washington and Lee fraternities.

What the study of the deferred rush committee indi-
cates is that there are no good alternatives to the
present system of rush, imperfect though it is. Even
with imperfections, the present systems has positive
aspects which we feel make it more advantageous than

| deferred rush. We also wish to make it clear that our

concern in this matter is the provision of an attractive
social life for the freshmen within a system in the best
interests of the University.

With this in mind, | move that the Interfraternity
Council request President Huntley to appoint 5 faculty
members to meet with 5 students chosen by the IFC to
consider the possibility to resccision or modificaion of
the deferred rush decision, continuance of preschool rush
and modification within the present rush framework to
alleviate existing deficiencies.

After careful consideration of the motter to de-
ferred rush, we have concluded that that program is un-
feasible for Washington and Lee for several reasons.

First, we think that in handing down its decision
tention to the practical problems involved n imple
tention to the practical problems involved in emple-
menting such a program—such problems as determining
contact rules (or not contact rules) which are realistic
for the environment at WA&L yet stringent enough to
prevent a semester of intensified rush instead of a week

The committee found that at most schools where de
ferred rush is conducted, no contact between freshmen
and upperclassmen is permitied until rush commences
We wonder whether this is a desirable situaion at WAI
in view of its emphasis on a small, friendly student
body. What advantage is there in separating the fresh
men from the upperclassmen for a semester?

And yet, consider the alternatives of allowing con
tact first semester. Permission of contact firsi semester
would lead to a strenuous semester-long rush, a situa-
tion that would be undesirable for all concerned

An equally important objection to deferred rush is
that the alternatives to fraternity-oriented social life dur
ing the semester-long quarantine are questionable. One
of the unique aspects of WAL is that fraternities are the
social life here. Even with completion of the much
needed Siudent Union, it is doubiful that comparable

social activities can be offered to the freshmen first
semester.

Whether “no contact” rules or “unlimited contact
rules are adopted in the event of deferred rush, a di
lemma arises

Assuming that “no contact” rules are endorsed we

question whether WAL will continue to atiract

a8 Wainy

  

good students if they know that they will spend the fir
semesier in iolation—isolated fram upperclassmen
isolated from girls, and isolaied in Lexington with
offerings of 2 movie theaters, several pool halls and
a few cules
University of Richmond is|
the winner of W@L annual |
novice debate tournament

The University al Richmond von ‘
the annual WAL novice debate tour nv i
fament held all over the campus on ae
Monday. This year the tournament
attracted the largest number of par- |. os "
ticipants ever with twelve colleges and '
over ninty debaters from all over ‘
Virginia and the District of Columbia, '
ittending the three round meet. Al ‘)
though WAL. teams were fot eligible 9(N)-1 In
for awards, ais two man WAL teams
competed and won eight of eleven
dePates in pm } ooihall

On the other hand, if rules permitting contact be
tween upperclassmen and freshmen during the first
semester are accepted, we contend that pressure on the
freshmen will increase, rather than decrease as has
been predicted by proponents of deferred rush. Under
a deferred rush program permitting contact, each fresh-
man will be living in a virtual aquarium with contless
upperclassmen watching each move he makes, seeking
to determine which freshmen they are interested in.

Subject to such constant surveillance, we believe the
freshmen will be preoccupied with always making a good
impression for a whole semester rather than for a single
week. Consequently, less thought, not more, will be
given to academic work. From a report on deferred
rush prepared for the National Interfraternity Council,
with 129 institutions reporting came the following state-
ments. “The almost universal complaint against de-
ferred pledging is that it keeps the students’ mind center-
ed on making a fraternity instead of getting down to
the business of studying. Those colleges that get rush
ing out of the way before the opening of college or
during the first week seem better satisfied. That mistakes
are made on the part of both freshmen and fraternities
are admitted, but the settled of the students out-
weighs this disadvantage.”

state

Stull another objection to deferred rush,
no contact or limited contact, is that the counsel, advice
and judgement of upperclassmen will not be available
to the freshmen, as it now It is doubiful that fresh-
men will be as quickly and easily assimilated into uni-
versity life without association with upperclassmen.

The final objection to deferred rush is that it is
certainly doubtful that it will accomplish what is cup-
posed to namely a better academic performance on the
part of the freshmen. William S. Zerman, former Dean
of Men at Michigan University reports: “Anyone who
says that there are good scholastic reasons for deferred
rush should produce the evidence. There is absolutely
no evidence in the last twenty to twenty-five years which
indicates that individuals and fraternal groups
with deferred rush. Many people preach
view but no one—absolutely no one
come up wilh any evidence based on research
tried to find it
inly

assuming

is,

iferease
wademically
ihis point of <an
| have
for at least fifteen years and there isn't
such evidence.”
Having analyzed the objections to deferred rush. let
us look at the benefits of a preschool rush

|. Although a decision is required early in the year
in regard membership the
way that the freshmen
They
work

io «fraternily
of the
attention

anxiety

decision is

nevertheless oul
their

with

so can

devote io academics also not

will

afe

faced of how rush out second

semester

2 Rush
caf pro. de fre
upperciissmcn

iid

week and pledging ai the beginning of the

afl tor

simen

Upperclass

ipportunily cont with

Mich Five valuable tiidance,

 
 

ind

 

 

       
 

 

 

 

   

in the assimilation of the freshmen
3. Fraternities provide social life for freshmen. Social
es if our opinion eseftial in providing a

Palanced education at WAI
). The urgument wivanced that fraternitic ind
cial lile “get to” freshmen first at WAL. This is true
Pul this is the sittaon a ny other universities with
mi academ inding. A ough icademic ctor
f univer rk lo contact with Treshmen afters
e i wofe pra i md workable

a7 Ah Ae i? roi

\ univ i 19th, the
2 Siuiden lal th Msefkce of studen

 

(Continued on Page 4)

WEEKLY CALENDAR

Tuesday, October 15

ne

Pi

Thursday, October 17

& Dr. BLN Duke t peak on
Experimes Ch Movement.” New
. Room 105

i i Hu } i :
i P i j ii
Saturday, Oct. 19
il. WAl li len in i Wl i

  
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Our forgotten conscience

In the works of man as in those of nature,
it is the intention

which is chiefly worth studying.

—Goethe

An educational dilemma

There is an underlying philosophical question which neces-
sarily permeates any discussion of change in the area of student
affairs as they relate to the University:

To what extent must Washington and Lee concern itself
with education, and when should such formal training be
allowed to take second place to the students’ non-academic

needs?
a

This dilemma is certainly not unique to Washington and
Lee, but in the last three years this campus has felt it as a
burr under the saddle of leisurely change. ® Saturday
classes—Must the faculty consider the desire of the student
body, or what its needs are thought to be? How much free
time is too much? How much responsibility can wisely be en-
trusted to students for their own study habits? ® Pass/Fail—
though grades are not perfect indicators of performance, is
P/F enough? Or is it too liberal? © Liquor on campus—
is the Board of Trustees acting in the students’ best interest,
or is it time for a judicious review? Does the decision on beer
in the student union reflect enough such review? ® Self-
discipline—Are college men capable of determining their own
standards of conduct? And to what extent? In what areas?

At this point it is logical to consider the fraternity rush
system at Washington and Lee, using our basic question as a
guideline in determining some sort of reasonable solution.

We do not take issue with the faculty’s decision of May,
1967, which called for deferred rush. In principle that choice
was wise and necessary. What concerns the student body is
that deferred rush, on this campus, may be a negative factor
in all areas of University life if an entire semester must be
inserted between the beginning of school and the beginning
of rush.

Two sets of problems

We are not an ordinary school in social aspects. There is
no such thing as a casual date here because the average date
requires a minimum of two hours travel time. Thus the stud
farm image is not wholly inaccurate. As Lee Halford told the
freshmen this September in an address on academic excel-
lence, “We work hard and we party hard; both are necessary.”

They certainly are. Witness the dolor of those unfortunate
freshmen who do not receive bids during rush week, who
spend their years at this practically isolated University and
chastise both fraternities as well as themselves.

A massive part of assimilation into the school and its social
realm and transition to post-baccalaureate life is thrust upon
the fraternities as a responsibility which they do in fact assume.
But do they assume it adequately? Perhaps not, but to resolve
this inequity would require years of planning and a complete
change in the social structure here: this question now becomes
moot.

The responsibility nevertheless remains, and in spite of
its luxurious trappings the student union will not shoulder but
a small part. Jay Wetsel pointed out that a freshman sipping
a beer in the student union will be quite jealous while the
Sigma Chis across the street down bourbon or whatever.
Judson Simmons asked a not-so-facetious question, “Where
will freshmen have an opportunity for privacy with their
dates?” Where indeed?

We have introduced two problems here, both of which
are not without solution. On the one hand are those who, be-
cause of one week's worth of failure in making an impression
or assuming the desired social grace, are often denied for four
years access to Washington and Lee’s prime social function.
And then the freshmen under deferred rush must be con-
sidered, lest the University become known to prospective ap-
plicants for its copious boredom at a time when life is most
exciting.

There are a great many flaws in rush as it has been prac-
ticed for decades here. Freshmen who join do so on the basis
of what is largely a facade carried on for one week: actives
are, if for the only time each year, considerate of others.
Rushees are not given an opportunity to decide for them-
selves if fraternity membership is in fact a must at Wash-
ington and Lee. Before pledging, few are allowed to see what
a combo party really is or what individual fraternities have
what kind of parties. And there is the fact that rushing before
the start of school makes a poor background for college’s
prime purpose, education.

For these and other reasons we are pleased to see the end
of traditional rush week,

Logically, at first glance, the faculty was right. Rush should
be after the first semester. This provides time—that entity so
necessary to negate most of the misfortunes and hazards con-
nected with rush week as we have experienced it. And Dean
Atwood made one point quite clear, that the fraternities
through the IFC were given almost full control in engineer-
ing the logistics of deferred rush. Presumably it was the fac-
ulty’s hope that the eighteen elite would provide freshmen
with social outlets. From what sources, however, would come
funds with which to finance this awesome task?

Some have said that fraternities would go overboard to
please freshmen, spending ludicrous sums on combos, liquor,
food, and transportation. We think not. Instead, if given the
opportunity by the IFC to entertain freshmen at weekend

 

 

parties before pledging, fraternities would continue as be-
fore—amounting to an unequivocal subsidy of the entire
freshman class on a non-selective basis, not to mention their
dates, which would hardly be fair to actives.

The matter of pressure on freshmen cannot be ignored.
If rush is delayed until February, freshmen will be under con-
stant and severe pressure from within—they will worry far
too long and needlessly about impressions they make; they
will worry about whether House No. 1 on their list will extend
a bid; they will worry over the best choice to make.

Is there no solution? We think there is. Two extremes
have been delineated, each with its own set of problems. Tra-
ditional rush is not acceptable by the faculty; the fraternities
eschew rush deferred for a semester. The difference can be
resolved; we write not in hectic language nor in haste (this
was prepared a week ago), but with the best interests of
freshmen in mind, first of all, then with vested sympathy for
the fraternity system.

A concrete proposal

How, then, can our intentions be applied to result in a
system of rush acceptable to, if not endorsed by, both the
faculty and the fraternities?

We would be in an ideal situation were the University
instead of the fraternity system given first contact with the
freshmen, were the fraternities allowed to pledge early enough
so that inadequate finances would not be their undoing, were
freshmen given ample opportunity to survey the individual
houses as well as the system itself, and were freshmen also al-
lowed to so choose without having to suffer a dismal first se-
mester.

We can have all these, and here’s how:

School begins as usual, less rush week. At the first of
October, the IFC collects $25 from each freshman who wants
to participate in rush, $20 more than in past years. This
money, distributed to the fraternities, provides approximately
$350 to each which may be used to help with expenses. Then
for a month freshmen visit the houses, and in early Novem-
ber bids are extended.

In this way we have made a postive response to the dual
dilemma otherwise faced and have resolved many of the prob-
lems which are peripheral to the two extreme cases.

Rush lasts a month. Freshmen will be able to begin school
as school ought to be begun—by studying—and later are
given four weeks to look at fraternity houses. They spend
time during football weekends, Openings, and Homecoming
at various houses, and by Parents’ Weekend a choice will be
made by most. Then fraternitites may begin to boost their
coffers (or keep them from chronic emptiness) with the
added income from fifteen or so pledges.

One of the most important aspects in which this plan will
be of great help is in allowing more freshmen to receive bids.
Sad is the case of the rushee shunned by his erstwhile judges.
Saddest of all is the much too frequent outcome, that these
men are more socially acceptable than many fraternity actives.
The non-fraternity men—those whose proud and bitter bur-
den stigmatizes their whole value system and their social life
if not their psyche—would have an infinitely better chance
to overcome transient faults not wholly of their own making.

How it would work

This plan will have to be slightly flexible since the schedule
of fall events is a factor, but in general it would conduct
rush starting on the Monday after IFC fees are collected.
For two weeks the freshmen visit houses during twelve smok-
ers (much the same as open houses in this year’s rush); one
smoker lasting one hour is scheduled on each of Monday
through Friday, then two on Sunday afternoon, then five
more the next week. Study time is not jeopardized since one
hour each evening is all that is required, and each house will
see the same number of freshmen and each freshman will
see the same number of houses as each did during past
rushes.

After the smokers, the fraternities must choose eighty
freshmen to invite back and submit a list to the IFC. Fresh-
men, in turn, list four fraternities in which they are interested.
The freshmen then return to the houses for four combo
parties in three weekends (one being Openings). Fraternities
are responsible for securing twenty dates for the freshmen at
each combo. In this way the fraternities have returning those
freshmen with whom there is mutual interest, and rushees can
be selective under no pressure.

Two problems are here encountered: What if some fresh-
men are not invited to four parties? What if freshmen are
interested in more than four houses? Both have common so-
lutions. The fraternities have a total of eighty rushees each
for the four parties, which means that if they are not listed
by the same freshmen whom they listed then random placing
by the IFC will occur. In addition, during the two remaining
weeks of rush freshmen may sign up to see two more houses,
one each on two Wednesday nights, at ninety-minute smokers.
They may choose from fourteen houses, those being the fra-
ternities to which they are not scheduled to visit during a com-
bo. This requires freshmen to consider where they may have
a better opportunity to secure an invitation (or for that mat

fhe Ring-itm Phi is published Tuesdays and Fridays during the '
college year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Wash- E
ington and Lee University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, S
Virginia 24450 .
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post ©
Office. Lexington, Virginia 24450. under the act of March 3, 1879.
Subscription rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

LARRY HONIG GLENN MOORE

Editor-in-Chief Business Manager

 

ter, a bid), after having more time to spend with the actives.

After each of these two smokers, fraternities are given
the option of submitting ten names to replace any ten names
on the original list should some of those not have chosen
the particular fraternity. Also, freshmen may similarly sub-
mit two fraternity changes to the IFC, provided neither house
has yet been visited by that freshman for a combo party. This
means that for the last two combo parties some changes in
appointments are allowed, which should give rushees a chance
to be more available and fraternities an opportunity to invite
the “‘sleepers” back.

When the four-week period has ended, fraternities submit
a list to the IFC of those freshmen it would like to have as
pledges. The freshmen turn in a preferential card, and rush is
ended,

Fraternities would not have formal bid sessions during the
rush period. This forces freshmen to return to all of the four
houses at combos, ensuring a somewhat more open mind on
their part. And some fraternities, not wholly sure of their
pledge status, may become more flexible in their bidding.

Contact between freshmen and upperclassmen would be
limited (except for the rush provisions) to on-campus con-
versation, campus being defined as University property, with
the exceptions of the two freshman dormitories and the Dutch
Inn and McCormick Library.

This plan includes several definite advantages over both
the traditional rush week and the system as it would be after de-
ferral for a semester.

Freshmen will have an adequate social life during October
when there are more parties than in any other month. And yet
they will start school in a proper atmosphere, free from the
confusions and other-directed excitment after rush week.

There is time before rush starts for freshmen to adapt to
the college rigors and to learn to relax without having to do so
in the initial barrage of conflicting impressions that has so
characterized assimilation at Washington and Lee.

Freshmen will then be better able to present themselves as
the pleasant, compatible people most of them are, which con-
veyance of image was too often stifled previously. Fraternities
will as a result have the inclination to bid more rushees, which
can only result in fewer disappointed freshmen, more diversi-
fied houses, and a better background against which the Uni-
versity will view fraternities.

Toward maturity

It is obviously not going to be a problem to convince the
fraternities and the IFC that this is a reasonable plan. Con-
vincing the faculty may require more initiative.

We cannot espouse platitudes about the ideals of fraternity
life and purpose. Everyone knows what service is performed by
the Greeks—a social service—but one that we feel is of abso-
lute necessity at Washington and Lee.

Fraternities have a long and vascillating reputation here,
one both embellished with genuine service to the community
and to the University and one tainted by the disreputble acts
of some.

And yet in the past few years fraternities have demon-
strated their ability at least to grapple with maturity if not
to conquer it. The examples are numerous: the Contact sym-
posium in February; fund drives; Greek Week; intramural
sports; concern over pension plans for fraternity employees;
a response to civil inequities.

In addition—or perhaps as a part of this—Washington and
Lee students have become more involved in University affairs.
An active and almost adamant role is played by many more
students than charges of apathy would indicate. In these devel-
opments we are proud to be a part of the fraternity system,
proud to promote it, and proud to think in serious terms and
with confidence in its future relevance to the school and con-
tributions to the students.

We believe that the fraternities have begun to realize and
accept their responsibility to the welfare of the student body as
a whole, especially to the freshmen. Gone are the days of
ubiquitous hazing, frightening rallies, and torture-chamber
Hell Weeks. The Brotherhood of which actives so fondly
(and seldom) speak is at once breaking and building anew—
breaking its outdated and unacceptable customs and rebuilding
foundations on the basis of concern for fraternity members
and others.

We suppose that last year or the year before the IFC
would hardly have qualified to be called a group interested
in others. And now that description has a believable sound
to it—this has been evident these first four meetings when
the old IFC blahs of years past simply were not present.
Some thinking has been taking place, some definite and posi-
tive action has been occurring, and some concern has been
shown for more than the primary interests of the fraterni-
ties,

Is reconsideration possible?

It has been eighteen months since deferred rush cleared
the faculty, 43-28.The intention was, as we said, admirable.
What we now ask is not that deferred rush be repealed, but
rather that it be allowed to take place during the first semester.

We think it will work, not only for the fraternities but for
the University as the fraternity system assumes its responsi-
bilities to the freshmen and its proper relation to the purposes
and goals and ideals of Washington and Lee.

We're not going to beg the faculty to adopt this plan as a

|| crusade, if only because the total history of fraternities here

provides no easy vehicle with which to cruise our desires past
a sympathetic group of professors. Hardly, What we do ask
for the fraternity system, though, is another consideration.
based on fraternities’ admittedly eleventh-hour but neverthe-
less sincere self-appraisal.

 
 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

   
 

Being given cncstiens protection in the pocket, W&L’s Jack Baizley sets to throw against Lafayette.

aS

a ae
bane

(3

(3
M sa.

—

i
ied ill" y

“Nit anit a

 

  

Me

—Photo by Foster

Reform, not satire, needed in Doremus

By EROME DRALIM

After reading through the rhetoric
(‘Mistake me not”) of R. Brandon
Wildes’s self-proclaimed ‘biting satire,’
there were enough holes in his argu-
ment to put Swiss cheese to shame.
He does not seem to realize that most
entering students face a four semester
history and a two semester fine arts,
religion or philosophy requirement
as well as the four semester PE re
quirement,

There is much room
in the over-all athletic program at
W&L. The second year of the PE
program is apparently designed to
give a liberal arts education in vari-
ous sports which can be used through-
out a lifetime. The structure of the
gym hierarchy is completely oriented
in favor of the PE program and is|
generally hostile toward any use of|
the gym facilities not in the PE)
program itself.

Towels should be
one any time.

for change

available to any

 

 

 

 

ROBERT E. LEE |

BARBERSHOP
OPEN from 8:00-5:30

 

The pool should be |

 

 

The Country Kitchen
Ureads, Cakes, Pastries
PHONE 463-5691
§-inch Decorated Cake $3.00
8-inch Just Iced $2.00

 

 

 

LE PE EEPESE EEE EEE EEE EEE
IDEAL
Barber Shop
QUICK SERVICE

SEES SESS CESS SESE ESTES

 

Hill’s Barber Shop
WE AIM TO PLEASE
KRelow the Lyric

 

 

 

Bring the Hollins

Road Team to

FRANK’S |

(Intersection of
Williamson Rd. and Ri. 11)

Hollins, Va.

open as much as possible including; take that for
the afternoons and after dinner.| Gymnastics,
Locker facilities should be available | Cross Senior Lifesaving and Water
to everyone, (I realize the physical | Safety Instructor, golf, tennis, fenc-
limitations of Doremus Gym, but this | ing (!), handball, weight-lifting, cross-
need should be met if and when new | country and many other sports could
facilities are built.) ibe added into the PE curriculum as

There is a need for a re-evaluation | one semester courses. The attitude of
of the PE program itself. The major | the gym administration is restrictive.
complaint is that it lacks direction| After chipping through Wildes’s ap-
and any sense of purpose. Why not | proach to PE reform, it became quite
compress the first two years into a | apparent that he was more interested
one-year program; then for the nextjin his style and his in-jokes than he
two semesters allow each student to} was of offering any serious consid-
pick an activity which he enjoys and {erations of Doremus.

a semester,
programs for Red

 

 

offensive from deep in his own territory. —Photo by Foster

WEL decimates Madison booters;
6 goals are scored in second balf

Frustrated by early season losses,| three goals, two of them unassisted.
WEL's varsity soccer team took out| Other W&L scores were Gil Turner
its frustrations upon a helpless con-|and Paul Miller with a goal and an
tingent from Madison College on Fri-| assist each, Jack Horowitz with two
day. The 7-0 victory brought the/ assists, and Don Belt, a freshman,
Generals record to 2-3 with several} with a goal. Madison managed only
key games yet to play jfour shots at the General's goal all

This was the first game ever| day, while the Blue took 47.
played by a Madison soccer team and} All-time W&L scoring leader, Scott
their inexperience was quite evident.| Fechnay, was released from the hos

 

ee

 

ak

Lafayette scatback disassembles
Generals’ defense in 27-7 defeat

Footbal Statistics

W&L Laf.
First downs 16 20
Rushing yds. 137 229
Passing yds. 128 194
Total offense 265 423
Passes Att.-Comp, 32-14 32-17
Interceptions 2 2
Fumbles-Lost 2-0 3-1
Punts-Avg. yds. 12-37 9-37
Penalty yds. 20 30

The Generals’ varsity gridders went
down to their fourth defeat of the
season on Saturday, losing to the
Leopards of Lafayette College. The
visitors scored three times in the

second half to squelch the beginnings |

of a W&L rally toward the end of
the third quarter.

Spectators were fortunate to see an
exciting game highlighted by the bril-
liant breakaway running of Lafayette’s
Bob Donofrio. It was Donofrio who
scored all three of the Leopard’s sec-
ond half TD's and tore the game)
apart with his great speed.

The visitors drew first blood late
in the second half.
partially blocked punt on their own
42, and went in for the score ten plays |
later on a four yard pass from quart-

erback Ed Baker to Gary Molchan. |

The point was good, and with twenty-
five seconds left, the Leopards held

| Sounding off eee

They fielded a|

a 7-0 yead. Key play in the drive was
a fifteen yard run from the 27 by
Donofrio on fourth and ten.

Early in the third quarter, things
began to look bright for the Generals.
Starting a drive from their own 44,
they marched into Leopard territory.
But Jack Baizley was forced to eat
the ball on a third down play, and
the Blue punted. The punt carried
beautifully and bounced out on the
eight. On the first play from scrim-
mage, though, Donofrio broke away
to the visitors 43. The next play was
a pass to Molchan, complete on the
W&L 24. Quarterback Baker ran it
|to the three, and Donofrio plunged
| over for the score. With 5:43 in the
oo. the score read Lafayette 14,
| W&L

The ensils weren't going to quil,
| however. Starting from their 31, the
Blue began to roll. A twenty-one yard
| sweep by Joe Dozier placed the ball
[on the enemy 30. Three plays later,
Bucky Cunningham took in a_ pass
| on the fifteen for the first down. On
| third and six, Baizley completed to
Dozier on the one. Dozier was hurt,
| though, and had to be helped to the
bench. On the next play Doug Goss-
man went over for the Blue’s only
score of the day.

Lafayette struck fast to lower the
home team’ s rising hopes. Taking the

 

_CAC grid crown is still possible

By ROY CARLTON
Sports Editor

The Minks are 0-4 now, and the
great plague that is apathy has begun
to set in. Coach Leslie has said that
the opening four games were the
toughest he’s ever seen on a WA&L
schedule, but that will be overlooked.
So will those key injuries to John
Wolfe, Luke Crosland, Drew Kum-
puris, and Lee Graham, As any Wash-
ington and Lee student will morbidly
tell you, “They look really good on
paper; too bad they have to play on
a field.” Despite the approaching
Homecoming game, student disin-
terest wil sink to a new low. Specula-
tion is about to begin, “Will we win
any games?”

Such a question is ridiculous, W&L
hasn't had a winless season since
those initial lean years of de-sub-
sidized football. Venturing out onto
the limb of prognostication for the
first time, I'll say that the Generals

Late in the fourth quarter, General's QB Chuck Kuhn tries to mount an “re in for a fine season from here

on out. There are still five more
xgames on the schedule. Three of
them are conference games. While

the state Small College Championship
may be lost, a winning record and

| the conference championship are not

impossibilities.

This weekend is Homecoming.
Homecoming at WAL is characteriz-
ed by hordes of alumni descending en
masse upon the campus with Wilson
Field as their main objective. As any
student can tell you, W&L alumni

are even louder than the drunk pledges

at the post-game fraternity combo
parties. One of the side-effects of this
(and other things) is that the Blue
havent lost a Homecoming game

a big winning margin, the depth-shy
visitors are in for trouble. That frus-
trated Blue offense should get into
high gear, and that means the BC
hopes for an upset wil Ihave to wait
another year. Record: 2

It's November 2, Parent's Weekend
at Washington and Lee, and Mom and
Dad have come all the way to Lex-
ington to cheer for their little boy.
Their “little boy” takes things a little
more seriously, though. The opponent
is rival Sewanee; CAC competitor and
strong as ever.
ule this year. The Purple Tigers beat
ing last year. The Minks won't for-
get that, not to mention that Sewanee
hasn't won on Wilson Field since
1958. A hard-fought game a toss-up.
Record: 2-4-1,

Fhe Generals finally have to leave
the friendly confines of Lexington,
for its November 9, and there's an
appointment with Southwestern in
Memphis. The Lynx were good last
year, when WAL beat them 30-13.
Now all they have left is their fine
quarterback, Randy McKean. Chalk
up a conference win for the Blue.
Record: 3-4-1,

The final weekend of the season
November 16, and the Generals
finally get hold of Washington U. on
home territory. Last year, WAL left
for St. Louis tied for the CAC
championship with Sewanee. They
came back with a 17-7 loss and a
three-way for second, This
revenge as the Minks try to
avoid a losing season, Despite good
resistance from the Battling Bears. the
Blue squeak out a one touchdown vic
tory in a tight

tie
year,

is

defensive set-to

 

since before 1960. Hampden-Sydney | Record: 4-4-1.
is the opponent this year, and the! In short, if the Generals can some
string doesn't seem to be in much| how manage to beat Sewanee, and
danger. The Blue beat the Tigers somebody defeais Centre, then the
| last year 12-0, and since then H-SC | CAC crown could come to Lexington
has been decimated by graduation. for the first time since 1962
Record 1-4,

Opening dance weekend, Oct. 26,
and Bridgewater College comes to)
| Lexington, Pity the poor Eagles
who've never beaten WAL. With a

Curt Jamison scored inside the imitial! pital yesterday. Indications are that
three minutes of play with an assist) he will sit out the VMI game on}
from Jack Horowiiz. But the Blue! Wednesday in order to be ready for
relaxed, and when the half ended./ Saturday's big game against Roanoke
the score was still 1-0 College in Roanoke, Fechnay had
The Generals exploded in the sec-| been hospitalized for over a week
ond half, though. They scored three| after contracting a mild case of
more times in the third quarter, and/ pneumonia in the Randolph-Macon |
thrice within a two minute span of | game
the fourth quarter. John Yow was Wednesday's game will be played
the big star for the Blue, scoring

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

t VMI on the parade ground at 4:00 | large home crowd,

Despite the continued fine individ

ual effort of Harry Zelifl, the Wash

rion and Lee harriers tasted defeat

“ ~ . i he i cason oO al

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECE OF FURNITURE a ear Glee eae ee ee
run " WAL s course between the

V w" P | valves of the Lafayette football game
arner oie Zelift's win was his third in as

} eason, He had pre

\ placed first in a meet with

iy ‘ im a qu idruple

it Centre Colle

; The 1 of il Generals finished

. ~ ‘s . | poorly we ind Roanoke Col
Washington and Lee Unriversitiy © eve wher oway wih the victory in|
= : } wu nee Hehind Zeliff, |

Bookstore lpg SS el ae

i. . : Domine h hird team nthe
Faculty Publications competition, placed fifth, seventh
. Hii A n » | happy

On Display ut. Paul Wilbur came in tenth

i d ,

and the desire for

Cross-country team drops its first
meet of season to Roanoke and OD

for the Generals, and sagged their
previously undefeated record to 4-2
Ihe team scores were: Roanoke 20
WAL 41, Old Dominion 22-WAL 33,
and Roanoke 17-Old Dominion 38

Ihe harriers face their next test to
morrow in Farmville against Hamp
den-Sydney, After that, they can en
joy a well deserved resi until Bridge
water on October 26

 

The

SPORTSMAN CLUB
56010 WILLIAMSON ROAD

ROANOKE, VA,

Available for

Private Parties

ACCOMADATES 200
366-7978

 

POPS h oo hod>

SPECIAL THIS WEEK

WHITEWALI

700x13

750x14

 

 

 

 

This is the most im-|
portant game on the Generals’ sched- |

the Blue 43-0 to celebrate Homecom- |

 

RABE OIL CO.

750 S. Main Street
Tire Headquaters for W@L

plus tax and old tire

WHITEWALL

 

plus tax and old tire

t-ply Nylon Tires

kick-off deep in his own territory,
flanker Bob Simpson returned it to
the General's 45. On first down, Baker
completed to Molchan at the W&L
32. The next play called for a line
buck by Donofrio. Breaking two
tackles, he crossed the goal line just
forty-five second after Gossman did,
to end the Blue rally. The kick was
wide for 20-7 score.

In the middle of the fourth quarter,
the Leopard’s lauched the last suc-
cessful drive of the afternoon. With
second and three inches on the 50,
QB Baker handed off to Donofrio
who gave it to Simpson. Simpson
went all the way to the W&L 22 on
the reverse, skirting left end, as the
General’s defense was completely
fooled. On the next play, Donofrio
took it to the four. Three plays later
he scored.

A word of praise is due halfback
Joe Dozier, who averaged 7.3 yards
per carry. Reports are that he will be
able to play Saturday despite his
injury.

 

Shirt Service . .
As You Like It
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

-

University Cleaners

lll

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

1 Hour Dry Cleaning
Complete Shirt Service

 

 

 

| Apeseningpeeeee,
te

“NEW WOOD:
+ ;
+ +
¢ 708 Franklin Rd. ‘
3 IN ROANOKE z
+ -
ay *
‘ Combos Tue.-Sun. ¢
= Tue.-Wed. — Royal Kings z
z Thur.-Sun. — Various Bands z
+

% Wed., Oct, 16— Clifford Currie ;
+
EEEEEESEEE SESE SESE SESE EES

 

 

 

 

 

 

CENTRAL LUNCH
TRY OUR FAMOUS
Swiss Burgers
Serving Food and Beverages

A Wide Variety of Domestic
and Imported Beer Served
and Delivered

TELEPHONE 463-2834

 

 

 

The
THUNDERBIRD
CLUB
ROANOKE, VA.
Doors Open 8:30
Available for Private Parties
College Students Welcome

ONE MILE FROM
HOLLINS COLLEGE

362-3624

 

 

 

 

PEPE EEE EF 595555555555 5565565446665606556050E5504

$15.95

$17.95

Poot LPPPPSEES SESS SES ESSE SSES EES ES ESSE TESTE SESE SST T TT TTT

b$6440004000000000000000000000008 $040¢0066000008
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Text of IFC resolution

disorder, violence and unrest at W&L |
was due to consideration of student |
opinion in all matters concerning stu-
dents. However, this was not the case
with deferred rush. The faculty hand-
ed down its decision with no con-
sideration for student analysis of the
feasibility of deferred rush at W&L.

IFC Meeting

(Continued from Page 1)

rally, and that they would have to
be at duPont for the judging that
night at 8 p.m. He also noted that the
fraternity displays would be judged
from 5 to 9 p.m. Friday evening. The '
pep rally 6:45 in Red Square being
sponsored by the Varsity Club was |
announced in the meeting.

 

 

Elections

Ihe Executive Committee re-
ininds freshmen that petitions for
a place on the ballot in Monday’s
primary are due day after to-
morrow, Thursday, by 6 p.m., to
Judson Simmons at Kappa Alpha.

 

 

 

AUTO FOR SALE
1967 Triumph GT-6 Fastback, four- |
speed synchromesh, wire wheels,
radial tires, and radio, Good con- |
dition, Call 261-256 after 6:00 p.m. |
O11-22)

|

 

B & F LUNCH

463-6202
Serving Food and Beverages

 

 

iin terms of the

In view of the long study of de-
ferred rush made by students, indi-
cating its impracticality, now is the
time for the administration and fac-
ulty to consider student opinion, In
regard to this matter, this is the
opportunity for the university to
operate in the manner in which it
says it does. And we feel sure that
the university will acecpt this op-
portunity, with the appointment of
faculty members by President Huntley
to meet with students to resolve this
matter,

IFC meeting;
News Analysis
(Continued from Page 1)

fraternity leaders fight if need be or
will they cave in at the first sight of

/faculty opposition?

The attitude of the faculty before
the resolution was clearly that de-
ferred rush must come and it would
truly be unfortunate if the fraternities
lost their opportunity to shape the
system best suited for their needs. If

i neither side gives in and if a com-
| promise is impossible then the next

month should surely be informative
faculty-fraternity
power relationships.

 

INAUGURATION

Dr. Leon Sensabaugh, chair-
man of the Inauguration Comit-
tee, requests that students refrain
from bringing cars to the campus
on Thursday evening, October 17
and Friday morning, October 18,
periods when the University park-
ing situation will become in his
words, “desperate.”

7

 

 

 

Schwab

(Continued from Page 1)
talk about
the sake of

Washington and Lee
brotherhood aside for
getting to the point.

At Dartmouth, rush takes place at
the beginning of the sophomore year.
About 70% of the upperclassmen
join fraternities. Rush is deferred at
Dartmouth for the same reasons |
feel it would be desirable to defer it
lhere: to give college freshmen the
opportunity to adjust to college liv-
ing and college-level learning with-
out simultaneously undergoing — the
rigors of rushing, pledging, and fore-
ed-fed social life. There is ample
time for all of the latter, including
‘the unnecessary facets, after the stu-
| dent has adjusted to the study regime
| and independence which college hope-
fully offers...

Given this situation then, what al-
ternatives exist for a visible social
life for first year students at Dart-
mouth. Here, several contrasts with
Washington and Lee exist:

 

 

1, Women are allowed in dormi-
tories during the week from 4
p.m.-9 p.m., and on Friday and
Saturday from noon-! a.m.
Drinking is allowed in dormi-
tories. (New Hampshire drink-
ing age is 21, as in Virginia.)
3, Dormitories are well integrat-
ed: ie., freshmen were mixed
with upperclassmen facilitat-
ing important informal and
academic contact.

~

 

Consequently, the dormitories al
| Dartmouth (many of which are com-

| parable in low quality with those on} cellence, in intramurals and in under-
i this campus) provide not only a mea-| taking service projects. Pressure will

sure of social life, but also the op-

portunity for more real contact with| physical appearances of their houses |
upperclassmen than that artificially |

 

forced during the rushing situation...

| agree that our dormitories are
nowhere near being suitable for social
entertaining, but I submit that they
are adequate for the time being until
improvements or additions are made.
Legal restrictions exist to dormitory
drinking, but the same rules are ap-
parently unenforced by the state in
the fraternities, and for that matter
in dormitories at Charlottesville. Re-
laxation of these dormitory rules in
conjunction with the opening of the
new student union and the beginning
of a deferred rush system would, in
my view, guarantee the possibility for
a reasonable freshman year social
life.

 

wash, not to mention the personal
appearances of the brothers .. .

Under the proposed system con-
sideration should be given to revising
the dormitory rules to allow liquor
in the dormitories, and to allow dates
in the dormitories at specified times
(even though the dormitories are not
presently physically suited to entertain
dates).

One tends to seriously doubt if
there would be many girls who would
ride buses to Lexington for mixers

in the student union for an entire |

semester. It would seem that dating
upperclassmen at Washington and
Lee, not to mention Charlottesville,
would be much more attractive. Per-
haps consideration should be given

‘The way I see it’: deferred rush

before people began to think. The
bomb fell last week with the con-
sideration of the actual deferred rush
plan. Now we are upset. But I think
we have followed a responsible path
to express our feelings.

The overwhelming majority of the
students (75-80%) who live in fra-
ternities stand united behind our find-
ing that, as far as the academic and
social lives of the incoming freshman
| are concerned, second semester de-
ferred rush is unfeasible for the W&L
Community in Lexington, Va. Yet we
see a faculty adamantly in favor of

‘that very same program.

 

Therefore, through the democratic
processes that have been made avail-

 

Consequently, as a teacher, I €n-| to extending clause six of the pro-| able to us—namely the IFC—we have

thusiastically endorse a deferred rush |
because I think a freshman gets a}
better start at the business of learn- |
ing without having to simultaneously |
endure the business of fraternity rush- |
ing and pledging. However, as an ex-
student, my endorsement is less than
enthusiastic unless some concomitant |
measures in liberalizing dormitory re-
strictions are taken.

Finally, it seems to me that the
fraternities, faculty, and next year’s
freshmen alike are well-intentioned
victims of the present physical plant.
A happy final solution can not come
next September, even though deferred
rush will. It is with this thought in
mind that I make the above interim
suggestions.

Humphries

(Continued from Page 1)
petitive in striving for academic ex-

 

be upon fraternities to maintain the |

past the traditional September white-|

gram to the weekends.

6. Contact between fraternity
men and rushees will be allowed
between the first
October and the last Thursday
before exams. Fraternities may
see up to 30 boys on the evening
specified for each house, be-
tween 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. (houses
will be assigned nights). Those
informal smokers occur on Mon-
day, Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday nights.

In this manner the fraternities could
provide rides for dates, and afford
the freshmen a deviation from the
standard student union weekned. Per-
haps freshmen could pay a minimal
social fee to contribute to the pay-
ment of the fraternity’s social func-
tion.

Leonard

(Continued from Page 1)
students to get upset over the pros-
pects of deferred rush. It seems that
as always, a real tragedy had to occur

 

Weekly Football Contest

COX MOORE

Sweaters by

EAGLES
at

Aluvin-Dennis

Kentucky vs. Louisiana State

LORD JEFF

 

Telephone

Civic Bowling Center

14 EAST NELSON STREET

Duck Pins, Ten Pins and Slot Car Racing
9:00 a.m.-5:00 pam, and 6:00 p.m. Until—Monday-Saturday

W@L Intramural and Phys, Ed. Center

Michigan vs. Indiana

463-4033

 

you can

“Farah” Slacks

Oklahoma

Top Quality Clothes at Prices

EPeqgell

Main Street

afford

“Arrow Shirts”

v5. Kansas

 

to be

SHOP BRAND NAMES

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons, Inc.

Sweaters by Puritan

Shirts by Manhattan

OPPOSITE RK, BE. LER HOTEL

Arkansas vs. Texas

sure

 

 

 

Adair-Hutton

OF LEXINGTON, VA.

"Because We Care”

 

® Phone 463-4721

® Open Daily 9:30 to 5:30 Except Fri. 8:50

® 3 Easy Ways to Shop: Cash - Charge - Layaway

Washington vs. Southern California

 

   
  

el

OLDS

Alabama vs. Tennessee

 

Win Cash Prizes

Pick the winners in each ad on this page. The person getting the most
correct wins first prize; mext best, second prize. In case of a tie the
closest guess at the actual score of the tie breakers listed below will
win, The contest is open to anyone except members of the RING-TUM
PHI, Entries must be postmarked before Neon on Saturday (Box 899)
or brought to the RING-TUM PHI office in the Print Shop by Noon
Saturday. Only one entry per person.

FIRST PRIZE—$5.00
SECOND PRIZE—$2.50

Official Entry Blank

Advertisers
Alvin-Dennis
Civic Bowling Center
Leggett's
J. Ed. Deaver & Sons
Adair-Hutton
Woody Chevrolet
College Town Shop
McCrum’s Drug Store
Clark’s Billiards
East Lexington Grocery

J and H Cafeteria

TIE
Washington
Alabama

Name

Address

Winners

BREAKERS
Southern Cal. .

Tennessee

Monday in|

requested that President Huntley ap-
| point a faculty committee to meet
with a student committee in order:
to open the lines of communication;
to cut through the mass of red tape
that dictates a superficial form of
|communication between faculty and
students—superficial in that one group
remains detached from the other in
any disagreement; to put faculty an!
student minds together to disagree
and to fight and to leave nothing
unsaid; and, in the end, to hopefully
discover the best possible system of
rush for the W&L Community.

We are making an appeal to rea-
son. For, although we realize the
deficiencies of the present system, we
also see deficiencies in deferred rush-
ing. So why can’t we sit down with
open minds to consider these de-
ficiencies on both sides, and work
out a plan for rush that will be as
unique as the W&L Community it-
self, and one that will be satisfactory
to all parties concerned??

If given the chance, I'm quite con-
fident that we can do just that, in
spite of ourselves!

 

Sponsored by the

Business Firms on this page

Slacks by
Corbin

Austin Hill
Gold Cup
Socks

 

London Fog
Raincoats

Callege Tatum  Serottathavay

Arizona State vs. Oregon State

Alan Paine
Sweaters

Shop

Bostonian
Florsheim
Shoes

 

STORE

Saturday . . .
Gundeyp .« e

McCrum’s Drug Store

“CHOOSE YOUR DRUGGIST AS YOU WOULD YOUR DOCTOR”
CALL 463-2323

Monday thru Friday 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.

Virginia vs. N. C. State

HOURS

- 8am. to 7 p.m,
- 8am. to 6 p.m,

 

Clark’s

Meet your friends
relax—Play Billiards
Watch the Game in Color

Georgia Tech vs. Auburn

Billiards

 

SHOP FOR SUNDAY

East Lexington Grocery

Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week

8 a.m.-10 p.m,

Missouri vs. Nebraska

EVENING DINNERS

 

Next to the

OPEN: 11,00

Texas Tech vs.

 

SECS SEESESESEEHSSESES SHES EH ESSE SSEEESEE SESE SESESESSHSESESSESSESESSHSSEESEESSHSSHHSSHSSHESEHEESHEEHESEHESESESHEEESESEEEE CERES EERE OSES

J and H Cafeteria

Lexington Shopping Center

4:50 p.m.-3i0 p.m,

A&P in the

am.-3:00 pun,

Mississippi State

aE RTT alee Pan Loe

 

 
