Short term for W&L?--See page 2

The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

 

U .
ON iy

 

 

 

Volume LXVIII Number 14

IFC uncertain

insurance salesmen, but that they
could not make any estimate con-
cerning the cost of a plan until they
had information concerning the age
and income of the servants to be
covered. Eaker said that all but two
or three houses had submitted their
information to him, and he hoped
that the tardy houses would give him
their information as soon as possible.

 

 

be

     

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 5, 1968
‘The way I see it’

(Editor's Note: “The way I see it” is a column of general editorial com- & g f
- — — *

ment for which contributions are solicited from students and faculty —
concerning any topic, The opinions expressed in this column do not
necessarily represent those of the Tucsday Ring-tum Phi.)
By DEAN KUMPURIS
Vice President, Dance Board

 

 

 

The IFC's deferred rush proposal
is now in limbo resting between the
IFC and the faculty. Last Thursday
the faculty Executive Committee en-
dorsed a mid-semester limited rush
plan fashioned after a plan introduced
in the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi. This
rush plan did not meet the major
faculty specification that rush be de-
ferred until after the first semester.

Last week the IFC voted to sub-
mit to the faculty the Hosford- Sto-
vall plan of limited rush which was
within the faculty’s specifications of
pledging after the first semester. The
IFC attached to the motion its strong
endorsement of the Tuesday Ring-
tum Phi plan as that proposal which
best suits the W&L campus and
environment; the faculty Executive
Committee also endorsed this plan.

Dance Plans will be announced later.
The Ring-tum Phi’s suggestion con-
cerning gates rules is a seemingly
good one, but is not feasible for two
reasons. First of all, our gym will
barely assimilate our students and
their personal guests much less a gen-
help the Board remedy these prob-| eral gate sale audience. Secondly, we
lems. This article is to explain briefly | would have to worry about paying
why these suggestions are either not} state amusement tax on all gate
feasible or are impossible to enact) sales and also giving the performers
under our present system. a percentage of the gate which would
The Ring-tum Phi stated that the | leave us practically nothing.
Dance Board had not formulated any The Ring-tum Phi’s last suggestion
plan to increase its income. By the} was to allow individual students to
fact that we have $7,000 more than purchase tickets at a 30 percent in-
we did at this time last year, it| crease. We can not do this because
seems that this point does not seem} we need to have our money in ad-
to be valid. We credit this increase | yance; the 4-Tops down payment was | f
in our budget to our selling policy. | acquired through summer sales; and | | S
The Ring-tum Phi next suggested | also because we need to know our | i ; j ——
that the Board abolish Finals Week-| total budget so we will know how | hen, —
end because only one-fourth of the} much we can spend for each week- | r : i
student body attended. This figure | end. | '
seems to be a little off since all the

The Dance Board appreciates the
concern of the Ring-tum Phi over
the problems of the Dance Board and
the suggestions that it has made to

WLUR will give
election reports
on major races

WLUR-FM will cover the election
with a staff of almost 30 reporters
and political analysts. Reporters will
be in Washington, D.C. at the na-
tional political party headquarters, at
the campaign headquarters of Seventh
District congressional candidates and
at the studios.

 

In their meeting yesterday after-
noon, the faculty voted to table furth-
er consideration of either of the two
deferred rush plans until a later meet-
ing to be called at the discretion of
President Huntley.

It was reported that advertisements

    

‘ ‘ he;

W&L Glee Club sings at Parents’ Weekend concert. —Photo by Foster

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

seniors and a good percentage of the

With regard to the Friday Ring-

listing the boarding houses in Lex-

Coverage will begin at 7 p.m. and

tum Phi I would like to explain the will continue until all major races
remainder of the student body at-| difficulty in remedying the points they ° ington that do not segregate had been) pave been decided. The returns will
tended. Secondly, Finals is retained | brought up. We realize that Doremus Wilson ( O Se - \X & I : run in the last issue of the Ring-tum| be simultaneously broadcast on
as a “Final Prom” of tort for the Gym is a terrible place to have a 5 = oe angie ~— WREL.

seniors. This is accomplished with less | cone That is as » placed in the newspapers of the

seniors, This is accomplis concert. That is the reason that for P pap Howard Herman at Democratic

than ten percent of our budget.
The Ring-tum Phi's next suggestion
for ending University Cocktail Parties

 

is not practical for several reasons.
In the first place, the jurisdiction for
the cocktail parties falls solely on the
class presidents. Secondly, these par-

the last year we have been trying
to acquire the use of the VMI field-
house. I'm sorry to report that VMI
has been extremely uncooperative:
three letters concerning the subject
were unanswered this summer. So
since we are stuck with the gym we

The Choir of Wilson College for
Women joins with the W&L Glee
Club in a concert program in Lee
Chapel Thursday evening at 8:00.

to give joint concert here

|ginia. Wilson College is a_ private,
| church-offiliated women's college in
| western Pennsylvania, Thursday's con-
| cert will mark their first visit to Wash-

surrounding girls’ schools this week.

Mark

Eaker
progress of the Pension Plan Com-
mittee. He indicated that he had re-
ceived favorable reports from local

Fulbright deadline

National Headquarters and William
Melnyk at Republican National Head-
quarters in Washington, D.C. will
cover Presidential election results.

Alan Cooper will be at Rockbridge
County Courthouse to provide cover-
age of local voting.

reported on the

 

ties represent a unique character of | have taken steps to try to improve} Phe young ladies from Chambers-| ington and Lee. John Motsinger, David Galt, Steve
W&L that is enjoyed by vast ma-| the quality of sound which was gen-| burg, Pennsylvania are visiting Lex- The program will be divided into extended Grove, Carl ttn and Pat
jority of people. Thirdly, if class dues | erally better than ever before. | ington on their Fall tour through Vir-| three segments. The W&L Glee Club Fulbright Scholarship applica. | Arey will provide analysis on all
were used for concerts it would mean| This is because we now hire an} ———___________---------—— | wil) sing selections from Vaughan| tions are due November 10, ac- | national and state races.

that a Dance Plan would actually cost | expert from Roanoke to bring his —— b Williams, Anton Bruckner, William| ¢ording to Professor of History Jeffrey Wexler will offer caustic
ra Rine Phi’ — oe = a Nea an = Drs. Phillips and Ley rns Cornysh, Thomas Ravencroft, Sam-| Charles Turner. The usual due date | notes on the more improbable ideas
baa ellien Cas Pom oh ‘ae Gan Geeeees » eerirems the fast that be | COMTIONNE pPewmcatzons bo |e Wette, sad Randel Themgesn. em ine oe Sa ‘

during the year has already been de-| had never been in our gym before. magazine and encyclopedia Then the two groups will sing

cided on as a policy the Dance Board
will follow, The exact price of these

Students may register this week

He assured us that next time he could
perfect the system.

to give blood in December drive

This week the WAL Young Re-}
publicans and the IFC are launching
the American Red Cross Blood Drive |
under the directorship of Bill Tyler,
Y.R. Community Service Chairman.

The Bloodmobile will be on campus
Thursday December 12. Students and
faculty are urged to pledge a dona-
tion this week that permission
cards can be sent to the parents of
those under 21, Those wishing to
donate can sign up with fraternity
representatives this week or in the
Co-op on Wednesday. The fraternity
with the highest participation will re-
ceive a keg of beer

sO

 

dents at Hollins and Sweetbriar gave
last year.

When asked about the drive, Chair-
man Bill Tyler commented, “The
reason there was such a poor turn-
out five years ago was because of the

chronic disease of the campus-apathy, '

The cure for apathy is the realization
of a critical need. This is what we

have here. Rockbridge County needs |

bleed to fulfill its quota. If a county

doesn't fulfill its quota, it is denied |

free blood from the Red Cross. Last
year several students and their dates
received free blood for injuries in
curred in car accidents.”

If you have given blood before, it

An article by Dr. Charles F.
Phillips, Jr. a member of the eco-
nomics department will be reprinted
in the 1968 Corporate Counsel's An-
nual, published by Matthew Bender.

rhe article is entitled “Some Impli-
cations of the Supreme Court's Anti-
merger Decisions” and was originally
published in the Summer, 1967 issue
of the Southwestern Law Journal
which is published by the Southern
Methodist University School of Law.

Dr. James G. Leyburn, former
head of the department of sociology,
is one of the major contributors to
the first comprehensive reference work
of the social sciences to appear in
more than 30 years.

His article, a biography
liam Graham Sumner,
in the “International Encyclopedia of
lthe Social Sciences.”

The new, 17 volume encyclopedia
provides a codification of present
| knowledge and theory in the social

 

of Wil-

is contained |

jointly “Five Rounds” by Jean Berger,
a not-so-serious medley of tunes.
Finally, the ladies will entertain with
some 16th and 17 century pieces in
Latin, French, German, and English
They have also planned a special
tune for a female quartet, “Our
Mothers’ Daughters.”

FROGS undecided

about operetta for

 

 

spring performance |

The Friends and Relatives of Gil-|
ber and Sullivan, otherwise known as |
the FROGS, will meet Nov. 8 to!
discuss plans for this year’s preform. |
| ance.
Dr. J. B. Thompson, president of
| the organization, will host the meet-
ling at 8:30 p.m. in his home at 103
Rebel Ridge Drive. All interested per-
sons are welcome.

The main issue to be decided there

 

 

wi ©

wand

Saeed

P Pp | - ‘— > *, 1. *
fhe last time the Bloodmobile | OMly lakes about ten minutes. uf NOt, | sciences and related fields, It COVErS | i. the question of whether the FROGS
visited WAL in 1963 only 53 pints} ™ takes only 40 minutes, which in-| all the principle disciplines including aaa ie Ae
: ludes getting your medical histor fitical scienc should restrict themselves only to
were given. Last year V.M.I. gave} * ~— - 8 yY " ¥+; economics, history, political science, operettas of Gilbert and Sullivan of .
815 pints. Over a fourth of the stu (Continued on Page 4) psychology and sociology s instead diversify and include the| “i

Two lecturers

 

at Universtty

 

tomorrow

works of other composers.
These favoring Gilbert and Sulli-|

van are trying to decide on which of |

their operatias to do. “The Gondol

 

 

 

| Phil Douglas (right) and Bob Gochring (center) of the Fellowship of Christian

Athletes present checks totaling $452.77 to Mr. Verne Canfield, Mr. Can-
field accepted the checks for Mr. Benjamin Huger, who represents the Lex-
ington Children’s Christmas Basket Fund, Canticld is of the Lexington Boys

iers” and “Ruddigore” are the lead Club. Snot tee Ohaakes
MIT professor to deliver ‘Cultural counselor speaks | ine contenders for the performance
: ss which will take place sometime in
talk on peristaltic pumping here on French education either March or April U
Fhe FROGS in’a, toons organien P AND COMING
Dr, Ascher H. Shapiro will lecture Mr. Edouard Morot-Sir, cultural gon of area citizens and students
Wednesday on “Peristaltic Pumping| counselor to the French Embassy in} whose one unifying factor is theit Tuesday, Nov. §
and Ureteral Function.” Dr, Shapiro! the United States, will speak here} iove of the operettas of Gilbert and | 5:00 p.in.—Biology Seminar
is head of the department of mechani Wednesday also. Mr. Morot-Sir's talk] guttivan. The entire show is a vol Wednesday. Nov. 6
cal engineering at Massachusetts! is on “L’Education Francaise et 500] uniary effort and is financed by the | 8,00 p.m.—University Center Lecture. Ascher Shapiro, Head, Department of
Institute of Technology and is also| fayonement™ at & iS pm. in Lee Lexington Kiwanis Club Mechanical Engineering, MIT, will weal on “Peristalic Pumping
speaking under the auspices of the | Chapel The proceeds from the production ind Ureteral Function.” New Science. Room 201 *
Univeristy Center in Virginia Mr. Morot-Sir represents French] go to the Kiwanis Club's Scholarship] 8:15 p.m.—-Depariment of Romance Languages presents Mr. Edward Morot
Dr. Shapiro is former director of) universities in this country His ap-| Fund for area high school students Sir, Ambassador, Cultural Counselor of French Embassy, “L’Edu
the Atomic Energy Commission's! pearance is sponsored by the WAl This years production will mark cution Francaise et son rayonement.” Lee Chapel
Project Dynamo. In 1968 he was) Department of Romance Languages.| the sixth annual performance of the “
awarded the American Society of A former professor of philosophy | FROGS, In the past five years they Thursday. Nov.
Mechanical bE ngineers Worcester in the provinces and in Paris, Mr.thave produced “H.M.S Pinafore 8:00 p.m.—Glee Club Concer joint comer leaturin he Wilson Col
Reed Warner Medal for contributions | Morot-Sir has also taught at the Uni- | “lolanthe,” “Pirates of Penzance ! Choir. Lee Chapel
to the permanent literature of engi-! versities of Lille, Bordeaun andi“The Mikado” and “Patience 8:00 pm.—Student Bar Association presents Mr. Martin Burks, General
neering Cairo. He is the author of “Negative Counsel for NAW Railroad Ihe Kole of the Lawyer as House
Shapiro received his Sc.D. from) Thought” and “Philosophy and Mys Counsel.” Alumni Hots
M.A ind he has writien at least ticism” and most recently edited the Friday. Nov. 8
two books: “The Dynamics and Ther-)iwo volume “Litterature Francaise > ‘ . i '
modynamics of Compressible Fluid | This Thursday the Student Bar As v % =f oo nog - re oe Mp NA in Siral
Fiow" and “Shape and Flow: The! sociation presents Mr. Martin Burks Steerond Howe Hall 401
Fiuid Dynamics of Drag.” He fas) Burk seneral counsel for the Nor RAIN Niondas. Nov. Of
iso authored more than fifty articles. folk A Western Railroad. He will Sam 3 Hioio niftal
Dr. Shapiro will speak in New) talk on “The Role of the Lawyer as Variable cloudiness tonight with a] 8:00) pon Psychology \V ne Lectu Dr. F. W. Fin Profle
Dr. Ascher H, Shapire Science 201 at & p.m. this Wednes | House Counsel” in the Alumni Hall low in the 40's. Fog early tomorrow Paycholo Lriver ;% fn P holoey and the Oth
Rephotographed by Waelder day jai 8 p.m morning turning colder Sciences. duPont
 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper
Tuesday, November 5, 1968

 

On the faculty meeting

The faculty’s decision to defer a decision on the deferral
of rush (!) was unquestionably in the fraternities’ best interest.
(Even we were tired after waiting two hours in the corridors
of the New Science building for some word of the outcome of
last evening’s meeting.) Whatever the last word may be, it
will be of no small import to the University—and especially

to fraternities and future freshmen—which is why nothing is
lost and much is gained by waiting until a later date to vote.
Although few disavow interest in the outcome, expediency is
not always a prerequisite for valuable action.

About the interview below

The lower portion of this page contains a lengthy but
well-worth-reading summary of the progress and thinking of
the faculty Curriculum Committee. After a year of arduous,
weekly meetings the Committee is on the verge of presenting
its proposals to the faculty—proposals which should be of in-
terest to everyone in the University. Reaction is the essence

of compromise, which is why the interview is being published:
any reactions will be appreciated, we are sure, by the Com-
mittee, whether presented directly or through the student Cur-

The Southern Conservative

Washington and Lee will not be the worse for having wit-
nessed the handsome comeback of The Southern Conservative.
The newspaper is published here in town by The News-
Gazette, paid for by private contributions (which are not
small) and patron subscriptions ($5 or more). The Editor-
in-Chief is Mr. Joe Wilson, a senior; his paper has—for the
first issue, at least—lived up to its rationale of being non-
partisan conservative analysis. It would sound a bit condescend-
ing for us to say we are glad to see the return of The South-
ern Conservative, especially under the excellent directorship

 

 

riculum Committee or one of the Ring-tum Phis.

 

of Mr. Wilson, but we are.

Roberts cites possible curriculum chan ges

would be a secret from anybody—
students, faculty; it was completely
open; there would be regular com-
munication so that as activities went
on in the two committees each would
know what the other was doing.

This communication of information
and ideas continued...on one or two
occasions members of the student
committee met with the faculty com-
mittee. We asked them for reactions
to the way our thinking was de-
veloping, to see what student re-
action would be...we made slow
progress last year. Ten different fac-
ulty members, ten different points
of view—this is what you expect, |
think.

But over a period of weekly meet-
ings—and we met almost every week,
all year long—lI think a general, not
unanimous, but general agreement on
certain ideas came about. Early this
fall we started back again...1 talked
with Swede Henberg (student Cur-
riculum Committee chairman) and
told him that I was in hope that by
sometime in early November we
might be able to come forward with
at least a basic proposal on the funda-
mentals of a calendar, or require-
ments for distribution and require-
ments for graduation—just the funda-
mentals. But we have not moved
quite that fast; however, our com-
mittee has now met and established
by vote, sometimes very close vote,
a general pattern...

We will recommend to the faculty,
in broad outline, a pattern which

|

 

 

[Editor's note: Following are ex-
cerpts from a transcribed interview
with Professor Henry S. Roberts,
chairman of the faculty Curriculum
Committee.

This interview was sought by The
Tuesday Ring-tum Phi, and is here
presented by decision of the edi-
torial board so that students may
follow the thinking of the Commit-
tee.

It must be emphasized that the
proposals pending in the Commit-

would involve a calendar of three
tee not only are a good many steps , > od .

terms; two 12-week terms, one
from implementation, but also are, week term

to some degree, tentative.

The Committee was appointed in
the fall of 1967 by then-Acting
President Pusey; the membership
was, and still is, Professors Roberts
(chairman), Buchanan, Devogt, Du-
vall, Hodges and Jarrett (both of
whom are now on leave), Phillips,
Spencer, Stephenson, and Thomp-
son,

We express our sincere apprecia-
tion to Professor Roberts for his
time and patience in granting this
interview, and our thanks to Mr,
Charles Winston, WLUR-FM  sta-
tion manager, for his technical as-
sistance.|

Within the two 12-week
student would be taking,
pattern, four courses. Now in prac-
ticality we cant talk just about
courses because there's a difference
between, for example, the course Dr.
Jennings gives in photography which
at the present is one hour, or a course
like organic chemistry, or for that
matter comparative anatomy which
has eight hours in the classroom a
week. So we do have to talk in
terms of half-courses, and courses,
and courses-and-a-half,

But on the average we would say
that the student during the 12-week
term would take about four courses.
This would be a normal pattern.
During the short term—the 6-week
term—he would take one or two
courses. For example, if he was tak-

terms a

* *

*

The committee was appointed, as
you probably know, by Dean Pusey
early last fall, somewhere about this
time. At that time Dean Pusey simply
said that he tried to get as repre-
sentative points of view from the
faculty as he could. And so it’s by
no means a stacked committee; as a
matter of fact Dean Pusey indicated—
and certainly it's true—that we just
can't expect unanimity because there
are so many different points of view

One of the first things this com-
mittee discussed then was the ques-
tion of whether it should be a faculty
committee as appointed by Dean
Pusey or whether we should have
had perhaps a joint committee. This
was discussed at some length, and
the final decision was that it should
not be a joint committee primarily
on this basis: that the work of a cur-
riculum committee is always some-
thing that goes on for several years.
It's a tremendously complicated job
we're not through. We will not really

aPPY LoseR
be through before a total of two to x's ae

three years, for the total job
We realize that necessarily students
coming in on such a committee would
be in perhaps a year and then off,
and then there would be new student
groups coming in. This creates dif
culty in terms of continuity because
new people coming in dont know
what has gone on before ,. . the back-
ground and thinking
At the same time I think we all
recognized the importance of the stu
dent point of view in communication
We talked about this with Lane
Steinger, the first student chairman
and he was rather in agreement

able to take two; if he was taking a

    
 

As

 

with this idea. And so we worked
out the understanding that nothing)
this faculty committee would do)

as a usual ||

ing a non-lab course he might be |

SVKeSSOR

lab course he could probably take
only one.

Or, ‘nested studies: the sort of
things which normally cannot be ac-
complished within the regular se-
mester format. And we've talked
about various things such as a stu-
dent perhaps working on campus or
off campus in a major university
library, or in the Library of Congress,
for intensive library study in a par-
ticular area—something he couldn't
do in a regular term because it would
take him away from regular classes.

Or, geology, for example, might be
able to take their students on ex-
tended field studies, which would keep
them away from the campus for
maybe the complete period of six
weeks. And again, this is the sort
of thing which is highly desirable
and advantageous which cannot be
accomplished during a regular term
format. We've said that in biology,
for example. we might, if we could
work it out, set up a special course

in a marine laboratory for our ma-
jors during this sequence. In general,
we are suggesting that the short term
would offer an opportunity here for
departments and students to do imagi-
things

native that they cannot do

6-| 8

now simply because of the limita-
tions that are imposed by the semester
format.

 

We've gone a little bit further than

‘his broad outline . . .we we would say
Lavsé
IN $ WoRDS oR “nis p
Less Téuw ME sone
O ge evectep oo

my

I™ 4 BORA LosER
/

   

 

hat a normal student load would be
from four to four-and-a-half courses
in a 12-week term...now the idea
of that is this:

By having four courses at a time
we are not necessarily trying to make
just an easier program. What we're
trying to do is to arrive at a pro-
gram which would permit the stu-
dents, by concentrating on four
courses instead of five, to achieve
considerably greater depth. And I
think as a whole the committee
thinks this is important. In many
areas, certainly, knowledge has in-
creased so tremendously—this is true
of the sciences, it's true of many of
the political sciences and other areas
—that if we simply keep adding more
and more material to a course, and
continue to ask students to take the
same number of courses, that they
would be forced to become more and
more superficial. So this is the think-
ing behind reducing the load to,
routinely, four courses at a time. As
I say, it's not to make things easier,
it's to achieve greater depth and
thinking, and by having the short
term to achieve greater flexibility.

We would say that certain stand-
ards in terms of courses completed
would be established for achieving
class standings. For a person to be-
come a sophomore ...he would have
to have nine courses completed, nine
coures passed. ... That may at first
glance seem tough, but in fact it
isn't, and TH show you why.

To achieve junior status he would
need 18 passed courses. To achieve
senior standing he would need 27
passed courses. And to graduate, 36
| passed courses. Now you might say,
“If a man fails a course, then he
i couldn't advance with his class.”
Well, that’s not quite true. Let's take
a freshman. If he was following the
usual patiern of taking a lab science,
which would count as one-and-a-half
courses, then in each of the... 12-
week terms he would actually take
nine courses, four and a half, four and
a half.

An then in that short term he
could take one or two additional
coures so that failing a course would
not necessarily keep him from mov-
ing with his class. ....So I don't
think it's any more restrictive, in this
sense, than the present system, in
terms of quality points. And we think
it does give some incentive to pass
enough work to move along with
the class...

We are

 

 

now beginning .. to

get

  
    

 

 

into the really difficult problem of
requirements for distribution. Now
this will probably be the toughest
single thing to handle in terms of
curriculum planning.

A general philosophy...has been
developed, that we would like to see
less rigid requirements in distribution;
we would like to see greater flexibility
in general, but I believe I can speak
for the committee..and say that we
think also that if Washington and
Lee is a liberal arts college and is
going to turn out broadly-educated
students rather than specialists, we
do need some requirements in distri-
bution.

Now, if we're going to reduce the
total number of courses required for
graduation from 40 to 36, then re-
ductions have to come along the line.
And this is difficult. No one depart-
ment likes to look at, for example,
the idea that less will be required in
their department under a new pro-
gram than was required under an
old program. Some people feel that
less is required now than should be
required, and no matter what you do
in this area, if you do one thing, this
creates a series of other problems
that will have to be solved.

So this is the difficult area. We
hope...that sometime in the next
few weeks... possibly by the first of
the year or even earlier, we may be
able to come forth with a basic pro-

gram—a proposal before the faculty |

involving the points which I've just
indicated, plus requirements in dis-
tribution and for graduaiton, spelled
out in detail.

Now this is a hope. But it’s a
tough one to actually realize. We
don't feel that when this has been
done that we will have achieved the
mission of the curriculum committee.
But we feel that this is necessary for
the next important steps. Once we
have approved this, we will reacti-
vate...the faculty discussion club,
which meets only when people want
to meet. We will have a series of
meetings, the number to be determin-
ed by the need, in which the mem-
bers of the Curriculum Committee
will try to meet informally with the
faculty, outside of the context of an
official meeting to discuss, clarify,
answer questions, and maybe even
try to sell what we are proposing,
but at least to let the faculty com-
pletely understand what we're trying
to do,

After that, it will certainly be pre-

sented to the general faculty, and!

The Ring-tum

 

what will happen there no one knows.

Now I've left out, I think, one
important phase, and that is that
we would not come up with a final
proposal to go before the faculty
without having discussed this in de-
tail, and with great thoroughness,
with the student Curriculum Commit-
tee, to get their reaction, to answer
questions which they might have, and
at the same time to get suggestions
from them. So they're not being ex-
cluded from the thinking. I want to

—Photos by Honig

make this perfectly clear, we expect—
and want—to have these continued
consultations . ..

It's perhaps more likely the faculty
would modify or amend some of the
things which we will propose. Once
the faculty has taken whatever action
it will take, in terms of this basic
proposal, then we will have some
basis to go ahead to a consideration
of special programs. This will involve
honors programs, special inter-depart-
mental majors, special inter-depart-
mental courses and seminars, and...
perhaps...no major at all for un-
usual students,

This again is going to take us a
long time. So | don't expect this
committee to have completed it's mis-
sion for another year or two...

Tuesday Ring-tum Phi: Would this
(Continued on Page 4)

Phi —Tuesday

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesdays and Fridays during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University, The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450,

Entered as second class matier September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879.

Subscription rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester,

LARRY HONIG
Editor-in-Chief

GLENN MOORE

Business Manger

ine

Managing Editor
News Editor ‘
Editorial-Page Editor
Sports Editor .

Associate News-Editors

Associate Editorial-Page Editor

Assistant News Editors

Assistant Editorial-Page Editor

Reed Byrum
. Reeve Kelsey
Robert H. Yevich
Roy Carlton

Andy White, Cal Whitehurst

: Steve Wittmann
Walt Jackson, Steve Ory
Mack Woodward

alg

Critics

Reporters
Cartoonists
Tuesday Edition Photography

David Field, John Yow

Tom Gillespie, Tom Rowe
David Ingold, John White
Editors Bill Foster,
Dave Waelder

 

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

OB Kuhn bombs Sewanee;
Blue's second straight win

W&L 8
First Downs 16 16
Rushing Yds. 102 127
Passing Yds. 123 73
Total Yds. 225 200
Passes
Att.-Comp, 18-11 19-8
Interceptions by 2 1
Fumbles-Lost 3-0 2-0
Punts-Avg. 9-33.7 7-33.4
Penalty Yds, 97 85

Washington and Lee’s rejuvenated
gridders gave skeptics something to
think about at Saturday’s Parents’
Weekend football game. Before a
crowd of six thousand, the Generals
completely dominated the University
of the South to the tune of 16-7.
Though the score was hardly lop-
sided, the Blue did, in fact, control
the game literally from start to
finish.

The Purple Tigers had elected to
receive, but they never did get to
make an offensive play. Jack Baizley
kicked a long squibbler which was
accidentally touched by a Sewanee
player. When the visitors tried to
down it in the end zone, W&L was
awarded a safety.

Already trailing 2-0, Sewanee now
kicked to the Generals from their
own twenty-yard line. Neither offense
could mount much of an attack in
the first few-series of plays, however,
and it looked as if the game might
turn into a rather low scoring affair.
As the quarter neared an end, though,
the Purple Tigers began to move. The
drive started on the Sewanee 25 and
was aided by two face-masking pen-
alties, one of them in a critical situa-
tion. Running expertly out of the
single-wing. fullback Bubba Owens
had taken the ball all the way to the
WAL 14. With second and five to go,
John Wolf slid through the visitors
offensive wall and nailed quarterback
Bill Blount on the 22. That would
have created a third and thirteen set-
up, but face-masking against Wolf
put the ball on the eleven, second
down and three to go. Two plays
later, Blount threw on the run from
the Generals’ front four, and con-
nected with Keith Bell in the end
zone.

Sewanee’s lead was short-lived,

 

 

 

grreseseresrererseosooes
%

: HICKMAN’S ESSO

+ on

z US. 11 SOUTH

$
*

 

PEEEE EEE EEE ESSE SESE EEE

 

Shict Service ....
As You Like It

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
University Cleaners

 

 

le le Ba he a Bc Ba Ba he Be Ba he Ba Be Be Be Ba Ba he Be Se he
ee ee ee ee ee ee Se eee ee eee

. °
, :
NEW WOOD:
708 Franklin Rd.
IN ROANOKE

Tuesday-Wednesday
ROYAL KINGS

Thursday-Sunday
VARIOUS COMBOS

 

ll lt li ls li il il i i i
a a ee ae ee ee ee ee ee ee

y
.
4
le
-
*
7
.
a
,
.
.
,
.
.
.

eee

 

 

Aki bh BSAA hehehe

however. The Blue came roaring
back immediately. Joe Dozier took
the kick-off from the twelve to the
twenty-four. Two plays later Kuhn
hit him with a pass on the 46. Another
completion, this time to Bucky Cun-
ningham, moved the ball into enemy
territory on the 44. After an off-
sides penalty netted the Blue five more
yards, Kuhn tossed another to Cun-
ningham on the twenty. Three plays
later, Kuhn completed his fourth con-
secutive pass to Cunningham just
inside the corner of the end zone
to put the Generals in the lead for
good, Jack Baizley kicked the point
after to make it 9-7 at 12:19 of
the second quarter.

After so much frustration early in
the season, the Blue were in no
mood to be merciful. Sewanee found
itself unable to move at all. They
fumbled twice before having to punt
to their own 44, The Generals got
another break, however, when the
Officials called a personal foul against
the Tigers, moving the ball to their
29.

Once more the home team smelled
blood, and once more they got it.
Quarterback Kuhn completed a pass
to John Thomas on the ten for a
first and goal. After a fumble which
was recovered by Dozier, Kuhn fired
on the run to Cunningham, kneeling
in the end zone, for his sixth straight
completion and another touchdown.
With Baizley’s conversion, the score
read 16-7 in favor of the Generals.

After once more holding Sewanee
deep in their own territory, the Blue
returned the punt to the Tigers’ 40.
They might very well have scored
again were it not for a couple of
penalties called by the officials who
were having a field day. This seemed
to break up the Generals’ momentum
for they never again mounted a seri-
ous scoring threat.

Sewanee came back fighting in the
second half. After intercepting a pass
on their own 44, they moved steadily
downfield under the direction of
Blount. Once he seemed trapped in
his own backfield around the 50 by
Wolf, but somehow he shook loose
and sprang downfield to the 31. After
a pass to Bob Akin had given the
Purple Tigers a first down on the
WAL 21, they were only able to
work themselves into a fourth and
one situation on the twelve. A touch-
down and a field goal would have
given Sewanee the lead, but they
chose to go for the first down. They
had been able to pick up short yard-
age all day, but now the Generals
defense held.

The Blue now were in the position
of being unable to move. Fourth
down forced them to punt to the
Sewanee 42. Once again, the Tigers
took up where they left off. After
driving hard they found themselves
on the 28, second and two. A line
buck by Owens was three inches
shy. Blount then tried himself, but
was thrown back a yard. On fourth
down, Owens once again missed by
inches.

With the starch removed from
them, the Tigers were no longer able
to mount an offensive. Ken Carter's
coffin corner punts kept them welded
to their own territory, and the Gen-
erals waited out the clock.

SPORTWRITERS NEEDED

Writers are urgently needed for
Tuesday sports. Come to the meet-
ing in Reid Hall at $ p.m. Friday.

 

 

Fred Fletcher moves the ball up for the Generals against West Virginia

Wesleyan as John Rodemier looks on,

~—Photo by Foster

West Virginia Wesleyan downs
Generals 3-1 as season nears end

W&L’s varsity booters played what
may very well be their last game of
the season on Friday in succombing
to West Virginia Wesleyan by a 3-1
margin. The loss secures the Gen-
erals’ first losing season in ten years.

The key factor which atributed to
the W&L defeat was a lack of drive
which was markedly apparent in
Wesleyan, a team which probably
could have outplayed the Blue in
any case. The visitors came to WAL
with a five and five record. It was
their last game of the year, and they
were determined to go out with a
winning record. They did and the
price cost the Generals a 3-5-1 rec-
ord.

The booters were originally sched-
uled to play another game with
the University of Virginia late next
week, but that was called off because
it would create a ten day layoff for
the Cavaliers who finished their sea-
son on Saturday. The Generals still
have a postponed game with Roanoke
to play, but whether it will be held
is in doubt. The game will have no
influence on the Blue's eligibility
for the Virginia Inter-collegiate Soceer

 

Association Tournament. They have

already been eliminated from con-
sideration for the tournament which
they won last year.

West Virginia Wesleyan took an
early two goal lead in the first half
which the Generals were never able
to get back. Due to injuries and ill-
ness, the booters were down to a
squad fourteen men, including sub-
stitute goalies. The visitors used fif-
teen men in the first half alone.

Despite this, W&L was able to
play the West Virginians on fairly
even terms in the second half.
Weselyan garnered its third goal in
the third quarter, but the Blue did
manage to get this back in the final
period when Fred Fletcher, who play-
ed a great game, connected on a
pass from Jack Horowitz.

Because of the lack of relief help,
key men such as Horowitz, Curt
Jamison, Carl Hyatt, and Scott
Fechnay were overworked from the
beginning. Jamison came on _ well
toward the end, though, along with
a fine game by Thom Mitchell. Un-
fortunately, Fechnay has never been
completely able to come back from
his bout with pneumonia last month,
and has been shy of full strength.

 

Cross-country team places third
in CAC behind Washington, SW

Washington and Lee's harriers plac-
ed third out of the five teams com-
peting in this weekend's College
Athletic Conference championship
meet. The Generals traveled all the
way to Sewanee, Tennessee, for the
meet only to find the competition
tougher than ever before.

Since entering the CAC in 1964,
Washington University has been the
perennial cross-country power, and
this year was no exception. The Bears
placed first once again with amazing
running. Their top five runners were
all in the first ten to finish, includ-
ing the first and second slots.

Despite fine performances, the meet
had to be a disappointment for the
Blue who have taken second behind

 

the Bears in every previous meet.

This year’s third place finish was
caused by the steady improvement
shown by Southwestern in previous
years.

The lead runner for the Generals
was Harry Zeliff, who turned in his
usual good time over the three and
a quarter mile course, in finishing
fifth. Other runners who placed for
WAL were Pau! Wilbur in fifteenth,
freshman Carter Glass in seventeenth,
Dan Cogan in twenty-first, and Dave
Haydu twenty-sixth. Freshman Steve
Darsie and Ralph Pearcy were close
behind.

Washington U. had an extremely
low score of 28 points in finishing
first. Southwestern had 57 in second,
WAL 84 points for third, Centre 87
for fourth, and Sewanee brought up
the rear with 101.

 

Pe ee ee ee eee ee eee eee

Ski Buffs do.

   

English Leather

 

   
   

 

 

For mon who want to be where the i
action is. Very schussy. Very mas. —
culine, ALL-PURPOSE LOTION.®
$2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the com
plete array of ENGLISH LEATHER

men's toiletries a

a recERa | Ut aw (Use er me nee ni oe

mPa Em

gai mI

Another championship year anticipated by mermen

Coach Stearn’s natators have begun
practicing for what appears to be a

season just as successful as last year's CAC

CAC championship season; the swim-
ming team, losing only two seniors,
has greatly increased depth and po-

i

tential. With four of their meets be-|

fore the Christmas holiday, the team
has been going through a series of
performance tests to determine their
strength.

ROBERT E. LEE

BARBERSHOP
OPEN from 8:00-5:30

 

 

 

i,

i

Bring the Hollins
Road Team to

FRANK’S

(Intersection of
Williamson Rd. and Ri. 11)
Hollins, Va.

 

 

Returning co-captain Billy Ball and |
Bill Brumback, co-winners of the
outstanding swimmer award,
will both be back this year as will
Dave Kympton, Hal Catlin, and Ross
Forman who helped pilot the Gen-
erals to their CAC victory last year,

Several freshman will make their
presence well-known, John Lawlor
has been setting a torrid pace in the
butterfly and is pressing Brumback in
the freestyle sprints. Brumback, For-
man, and Lawlor will be an excellent
backbone for the freestyle events.
Last year Brumback swept up one
of the oldest standing poo! records
in the 50 yard freestyle as well as
capturing records in most of the pools
he invaded during the season.

Dave Kympton with support from
Jeff Grossman, Chuck Garten, and
freshman Bert Meem should support
the team in the 500 and 1000 yard
distance freestyle events. Kympton
presently holds the school record for
the 1650 yard event which he set at
the CAC,

The backstroke will be supported
by Billy Ball who holds conference
records in both the 100 and 200 yard
events. He is supported in this event
by Bill Kimmel. Ball, Kimmel and
Scott McElroy form the nucleus of
the individual medley event.

The Generals will also receive ex-

cellent support from returning letter-
men Roger Martin, Buddy Miller, and

Joe Phillips. Besides Lawlor and
Meem, freshman Rick Sands and
Klein Stuart show exceptional

promise.

In diving, Mike Carrere appears
to be the only diver at the moment,
Although he is easily capable of win-
ning his share of firts, the team lacks
true depth in this event.

The Generals, trying to better their
6-2 mark of last year face American
University in Lexington on December
6. American was one of the two de-
feats suffered last year, and Coach
Stearns hopes to even the score when
they return to the Doremus pool

 

Hill’s Barber Shop
WE AIM TO PLEASE
Helow the Lyric

 

 

 

The Country Kitchen
Breads, Cakes, Pastries

S-inch Decorated Cake $3.00
S-inch Just leed $2.00

PHONE 463-5691

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

By ROY CARLTON
Sports Editor

It may come as a complete sur-
prise to most W&L football en-
thusiasts (?), but Saturday’s victory
over Sewanee has catapulated the
Generals into a close fight for the
conference championship. Despite the
Generals 2-4-1 record, they rest in
third place in the CAC with a 1-1
record. If somehow they can manage
to win their last two games of the
season, as is quite possible, they will
find themselves tied for the champ-
ionship for the first time since 1962.

How did all this happen? First of
all the answer lies in the fact that
the Blue are not as bad a football
team as everyone has been thinking.
Early season injuries sidelined some
of the best performers on the team,
notably All-Staters Scott Mackenzie
and John Wolf, and starting halfback
Luke Crosland, among many others.

Another factor is the schedule the
Generals faced. Almost all of their
conference games are bunched to-
gether at the end of the season.
This has given several outstanding
freshmen time to learn the W&L
style of play, and a few of them have
already been absorbed into the start-
ing lineup. Dave Brooks has taken a
starting defensive halfback spot in
the lineup which was particularly
noted for its defensive backs. Brooks
has, in just four games, turned into
the finest performer in the backfield.
Tom Barton has come on to do an
excellent job in subbing for Joe
Dozier, and Mark Skoggard is a big
relief help on the defensive line.

So now the Generals are fighting
for the championship. Centre Col-
lege has already sewn up at least a
tie for first. They've already complet-
ed their conference schedule with a
three and one record. Both South-
western and Washington and Lee are
still capable of tieing, but to do so
they can't afford to lose another con-
ference game. The showdown comes
this Saturday when the Generals
travel to Memphis to face the Lynx.
Southwestern has a two and one rec-
ord, and the Blue will be the final
CAC team they'll play.

Should the Lexingtonians emerge
victorious, they will still have to meet
up with last place Washington U.
The Bears may have an 0-2 record,
but they're still not a team to be
taken lightly. They have the best de-
fense in the conference, allowing only
250.5 yds. per game. Also to their
credit is the second most productive
offense in the CAC, piling up 226.0
yds. in every outing. The Generals
are second in defense with 265 yds.
allowed per game while accumulating
only 194.8 yds. on offense, last in the
conference.

CAC Standings
Centre College 3-1-0
Southwestern 2-1-0
Washington and Lee 1-1-0
Sewanee 1-2-0
Washington U. 0-2-0
+ Ae ea

For those few people who may
have dropped over to old Doremus
Thursday night or Friday afternoon,
you may have noticed the Generals
holding their first basketball scrim-
mage this season against Fairmont
(W.Va.) State College. While the
games were informal and unofficial,
I drew several preliminary conclus-
ions about this year's roundballers.

Most obvious is that they're going
to miss the departed Mal Wesselink

 

Sewanee win boosts title hopes —

  

quite a bit. He was a great scorer
and a big help under the boards.
Against Fairmont, the Generals seem-
ed to have a very hard time working
the ball into the forwards. Mike Neer
was thus almost powerless.

The Blue may very well have
found the outside shooting they need.
Bill Rhyne was tremendous from the
outside in Friday’s game, and stands
a good chance of winning the guard
position vacated by John Carrere. A
freshman, Scott Wood, was also very
accurate from the outside, as well
as being a good playmaker for the
second-string.

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

 

 

 

eeteetebtobdettebdeebdobdtobd
IDEAL
Barber Shop
QUICK SERVICE
Heeb obdebedetetetebdedetebtedetet

ee eee

4
4
4
4
’
4
4
4
4
‘

 

 

LEXINGTON

CLEANERS

1 Hour Dry Cleaning
Complete Shirt Service

 

 

CENTRAL LUNCH

TRY OUR FAMOUS
Swiss Burgers

 

 

Serving Food and Beverages

A Wide Variety of Domestic
and Imported Beer Served
and Delivered

TELEPHONE 463-2834

 

 

 

 

The
SPORTSMAN CLUB

5010 WILLIAMSON ROAD
ROANOKE, VA,
Available for
Private Parties

ACCOMADATES 200
366-7978 — Acc. 228

 

 

 

 

 

Bookstore
“Democracy is based upon the conviction
that there are extraordinary possibilities

in ordinary people.”

The
THUNDERBIRD
CLUB
ROANOKE, VA,
Doors Open 8:30
Available for Private Parties
College Students Welcome

ONE MILE FROM
HOLLINS COLLEGE

362-3624
;
§

 

 

 

—Fosdick

i
i
ty

 

 

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECE OF FURNITURE

Vener & Pole

 

 

g PPPFESETEE SHOTS S EOS Hoe eee oeoeeeooeeeeens

Well Insulated

Red Cinder Block

CABIN

ALL ELECTRIC
With View of Goshen Puss

ON RT. 39
Completely Furnished

SUITABLE FOR 3 OR MORE MATURE STUDENTS

Williams Real Estate

+
+
”

oo
+
:
463.2542
PEPPELELELELLELEELES ESD OSEOH OS oboe eeoEeeeeeeoner
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

  

LETTERS 10 THE EDITOR

Dear Sirs:

It is interesting to note the depths
of puerility to which the much-vaunt-
ed Inter-Fraternity Council has most
recently sunk. Contemplate the merits
of the “shoe race” which was held
at the last football game—thanks to
the imagination of the fraternities’
representatives—and then consider
the intellectual bankruptcy which this

 

MP i cn a hy
Last night in duPont auditorium, Dr. Otis Pease of the Uni
ington history department spoke on “The Reformer and the Politician in
Recent American Politics.” One of his contentions was that Americans, today,
desire reform and not change—such as with George C. Wallace and Sen.
Eugene MeCarthy—which desire, he said, was based largely on increasing
sophistication in this country, The lecture was presented under the auspices
of the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program.

(Continued from Page 2)
short-term be for every student?

All students would have the short
term, yes. Now we do feel this, that
freshmen and sophomores would
probably, during the short term, be
primarily involved in taking courses,
one or two... At the junior or senior
level we would expect perhaps that a
large number would be involved in
special studies,.. But we're not. set-
ting up any absolutes here, this is an
expectation on our part.

Tuesday Ring-tum Phi: What kind
of choice would the students have as
to what areas they may study in?

This is something that would norm-
jally be worked out with the major
department...now we do not limit
the special area studies within the
major departments, within our think-
ing, but we feel that it would be
| worked out in conjunction with what
the student is particularly interested
in, with a faculty member who would
have to assume some sponsorship or
supervision

 

  

versity of Wash-

Tuesday Ring-tum Phi; When would
you guess that such a program could

or would be implemented?
—Photo by Waelder

 

This is again a toughie. I do not
‘think that it can be worked out in
terms of getting it into a catalogue

; for next year... you must realize that
expected from the elected representa- |. a

jt of Washington and Lee's fra.| if this should be adopted by the fac-
seraltios how, then. can one be ex. | Uity that every department is really
’ , eee | goi ave mM ¢ ) §
pected to credit their claim to embody | 8°'"8 to have @ sit down ind dc =
the traditions of this institution | Complete rethinking job about what

much less respect them. on have to a :
s/James H. Lawson, 70) _ We hope that this can be approach-
/ed not on the basis of simply taking
PS: May I suggest that the latest edi-| an existing course and somehow
tion of “Mother Goose” would be| warping or changing it to fit a new
a fitting prize for the winning fra-| pattern. We're hoping there can be
ternity’s trophy-case? |some imaginative rethinking all the

proposal represents.
If actions of this sort are to be

 

 

 

 

Roberts interview

way through...and this is a very
time-consuming operation. | would
say that there might be a possibility,
and 1 don't know how realistic this
is... that possibly they could be put
into effect next fall,... but I can’t
be too optimistic.

Some of our committee are more
optimistic about this than I am, But
we feel if we don’t do our job very
carefully and very thoroughly in terms
of planning and in terms of com-
munication of our ideas to the fac-
ulty,... then it will work against the
whole program.

To me the selling point is that if a
department will look not in terms of
the difficulty it will create but in
terms of the opportunities it will open
up for imaginative thinking about new
ways to do things and to do things
that couldn't be done before, it’s
exciting!

Now I hope...the students will
not get or be given the idea that
all of this is going to happen—we
don't know whether it’s going to
happen or not...

This is the general form our recom-
mendations to the faculty will take...
this committee has shown a lot of
imagination, a lot of flexibility, and a
complete willingness to examine new
ways to do things. And I think the
men of the committee are really due
a lot of commendation for being will-
ing to think this way.

Blood drive

(Continued from Page 1)
blood type, etc. The only pain in-
volved is about the same as a pin
prick.

The Red Cross needs your blood.
lt is up to Washington and Lee to
play its part. Now is the time to
make up for our delinquency of the
past.

 

 

Selective Service affects W&L

draft’ has made
noticeable inroad on enrollment at
Washington and Lee University,
especially among law students.

Figures released by registrar Harold
S. Head show that while total en-
rollment is only three less than last
year (1,458 compared with 1,461 it
has dropped by 30 in the law school
(from 216 last year to 186 presently).

Law School Dean Roy L. Stein-
heimer attributes the decline directly
to the recent Selective Service rulings
making graduate students subject to
the draft.

“Twenty-one of our second year
class—last year’s freshmen—left be-
cause of impending military service,”
Mr, Steinheimer said. “And of the
80 students whom we accepted as
freshmen this year and who planned
to enroll here 60 came. The other
20 were either drafted or about to

be

The military a

Since classes began in September,
one law student has already dropped
out because of the draft. “We antici-
pate we'll lose a few more during
the year.” Mr. Steinheimer said,

The dean has written letters to sev-
eral Selective Service boards for stu-
dents who have received draft notices.

“IT am hopeful that draft boards
are sensitive enough to the needs
of these men so that they will let
them complete at least one semester
before taking them,” he said.

Ironically the decline in enrollment
will be beneficial for the law school,
the dean feels.

“Financially it will have no effect
on us at all. In our operations it

| actually will have a good effect, mak-

ing the size of the student body more
manageable and class sizes more
realistic.”

Last year’s enrollment of 216, a

record, “simply overcrowded us,”
Dean Steinheimer observed.
Although the draft problem has

been felt at all graduate schools,
they have not been hit as hard as
some educators at first thought, Dean
Steinheimer said.

“Their worst fears weren't realiz-
ed,” he commented. “But all of them
have been affected in some way.”

 

Parents’ Advisory Council
elects Scruggs new head

Richard T, Scruggs Sr. of Birm-
ingham, Ala. has been elected chair-
man of the Parents Advisory Council
at Washington and Lee University,

Scruggs, whose son, Richard Jr.,
is a junior majoring in physics-engi-
neering, was named at the annual
council meeting held in connection
with the 14th annual Parents’ Week-
end Nov, 1-3.

The council sponsors the annual
weekend, along with the University.
The three-day event, which this year
was attended by a record number of
1,300 parents and guests, enables
parents to meet their son’s professors,
attend classes, tour the campus, view
departmental displays and observe
numerous other campus activities.

Scruggs is president of Vulcan
Metals Co. in Birmingham. As chair-
man of the advisory council, he will
preside during Parents’ Weekend next
fall at the annual council meeting
and the “Report To Parents” session,
when student and administrative lead-
ers address the parents.

Scruggs succeeds John F. Carrere
Sr. of New Orleans, who has two
sons at Washington and Lee, senior
John Jr. and sophomore Michael L.

Watch Hubert win

The Lexington Republican head-
quarters will be open tonight. All are

 

invited to watch the results.

 

Weekly Football Contest

LSU vs. Alabama

 

Telephone
Duck Pins, Ten Pins

Civic Bowling Center

14 EAST NELSON STREET

9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Until—Monday-Saturday
W@L Intramural and Phys, Ed, Center

Georgia vs. Florida

Shirts by
SERO HOLBROOK
= | WODDY=
at
. . “S11 euamrEay sna” ee
Aluin-Dennis CHEYROLET

 

Miami (Fla.) vs. Penn State

 

463-4033
and Slot Car Racing

 

“Farah” Slacks

Top Quality Clothes at Prices
you can afford

EYeqgett

Main Street

Richmond vs. Va. Tech

Adv
Alvin-Dennis
Civic Bowling Center
Leggett’s

“Arrow Shirts”

 

to be

SHOP BRAND NAMES

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons, Inc.

Sweaters by Puritan

Shirts by Manhattan
OPPOSITE R. FE. LEE HOTEL

Oklahoma vs. Kansas

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons
Adair-Hutton

Woody Chevrolet
College Town Shop
McCrum’s Drug Store
Clark's Billiards

East Lexington Grocery
J] and H Cafeteria

sure

 

 

 

Adair-Hutton

OF LEXINGTON, VA.

"Because We Care”

 

 

* Open Daily 9:30 to
© Phone 463-4721

© 3 Basy Ways to Shop: Cash - Charge - Layaway

Purdue vs. Minnesota

Win Cash Prizes

Pick the winners in each ad on this page. The person getting the most
correct wins first prize; next best, second prize. In case of a tie the
closest guess at the actual score of the tie breakers listed below will
win, The contest is open to anyone except members of the RING-TUM
PHI, Entries must be postmarked before Noon on Saturday (Box 899)
or brought to the RING-TUM PHI office in the Print Shop by Noon
Saturday. Only one entry per person,

FIRST PRIZE—$5.00
SECOND PRIZE—$2.50

Official Entry

Blank

Winners

TIE BREAKERS
Georgia__.__. Florida ii
TE eee USC
Name :
5:30 Except Fri. 8:30
Address

 

Sponsored by the

Business Firms on this page

Slacks by
Corbin
Austin Hill

 

College Town Sero-Hathaway

Texas A and M vs. SMU

Alan Paine
Sweaters

Shop

Bostonian
Florsheim
Shoes

 

Saturday .
Sunday

McCrum’s Drug Store

“CHOOSE YOUR DRUGGIST AS YOU WOULD YOUR DOCTOR”

CALL 463-2323
STORE HOURS

Monday thru Friday 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.

UCLA vs. Oregon State

8 a.m. to 7 p.m.
8 am. to 6 p.m.

 

Clark’s Billiards

Meet your friends
relax—Play Billiards
Watch the Game in Color

California vs. USC

 

East Lexington Grocery

Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week

8 a.m.-10 pm.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY EVENING DINNERS

Houston vs. Memphis State

 

 

J and H Cafeteria
Next to the A&P in the

Lexington Shopping Center

OPEN: 11:00 am.2:00 pon,
4:4 pam p.m.

Illinois vs. Michigan

SESSSSSHSSHHSSHESESSSESSSHSES ESSE SESH SSEHE SHOES HESS HEEEHES SE SEEEEEEEEEHEEESESEEEESHSSEE EES ESHSSESHSEHEESOSESHESESESHEC ERE SEHE ESHER HEHE SERS E HEE SEES

 
