 

 

+ The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

 

 

 

Volume LXVIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 19, 1968

Number 18

 

The New Republic

Copyright © 1968,
Harrison-Blaine of New Jersey, Inc.

Registraion rolls are heavy with
voters who will shed no tear at the
repudiation of the incumbent Ad-
ministration, and raise no cheer at the
prospect of Richard Nixon in the
White House. We are at home in
that company. The National Demo-
cratic Party was buried by its man-
agers earlier this year, and it can’t
be resurrected in time to win this
November. Tom Wicker of The New
York Times observed last week that
Eugene McCarty’s good opinion is
being “more avidly sought by the
Democrats now than it was last
August in Chicago, or during the
long, hot summer when he sought
delegate support, only to be met by
an unbroken panorama of ‘profes-
sional’ Democratic politicians with
their heads in the sand, the resulting
position of their rumps inviting the
kicks they are now getting.” In early
1960, Senator Humphrey seemed to
us just the right man to be President.
Today, we and many others who
thought the same feel like the long-
dead boss of the New York Demo-
crats, who, asked if he would sup-
port William Jennings Bryan in 1896,
replied: “I am a. . . Democrat still,
very still.” Why? Vietnam, to begin
with. Neither Humphrey nor Nixon
has spoken the ruth—that this never
was a war that should have been
fought by the United States. Nor has
either said, even in general terms,
how he thinks the conflict can be
brought to an end without further
devastation. A partial bombing halt
is as useful as a broken button; a
total halt is only a prelude to negotia-
tions. Mr. Humphrey’s opponents may
argue that they have not been in
charge and are not therefore re-
sponsible for this disaster. It is a
proper but thin defense, since neither
Nixon nor Wallace has criticized the
essentials of the Johnson policy. They
were freer than Humphrey to speak,
but they had nothing sensible to say.

Their complicity does not, of
course, absolve the Vice President
He had a chance as late as the
Democratic National Convention to
get off the Johnson line. He might
then have endorsed the moderate
minority position of Vietnam; instead,
he went along with the extremists,
and he went along when the police
clubbed and gassed protestors in the
streets. One's sympathy for Hum-
phrey is not sweetened by the tale
(always privately told) that he really
has grave doubts about the bombing.
Loyalties deeper than an obligation
to one’s team have been challenged
by this war. Whether the Vice Presi-
dent had it in him to break free, to
appreciate and reflect the depth of
the anti,war sentiment and the reasons
for it, is an academic question, We
know what we're given. The Admini-
stration policies to which Mr, Hum-
phrey gave himself ardently, ovt-
rageously, are now to be judged, It
is right that they be judged, Repre-
sentative government requires that
power be held to account, Evasion of
accountability breeds the sort of
cynicism illustrated last week by a
remark of John Kenneth Galbraith,
Asked whether Americans for Demo-
cratic Action, having just endorsed
Humphrey, no longer thought he was
a “candidate of the past” (as he had
been to ADA some weeks earlier),
ADA's chairman ventured the philo-
sophy that “Nothing is so admirable
in politics as a short memory,”

Hubert Humphrey is no war lover.
But neither is Nixon nor Lyndon
Johnson, (One can't be sure about
Wallace.) We assume that Nixon or
Humphrey would, as President, find
a way out of the dead-end of Viet-
nam, under strong pressures to shift
the balance of national expenditures
more heavily onto the side of do-
mestic rehabiliation. A new Admini-
stration will try hard to make peace,
moreover, because if it does not,
militant protest will make its life
unbearable. And surely amy new Ad-

will do something for the
ghettoes, and for the same reason
if it doesn’t its life will be unbear-
able. Mr. Humphrey is doubtless the
more “liberal” nominee, if by lib-
eral one means a willingness fo use
public resources to meet public needs.
He has made constructive proposals
avout federal investment in urban te
newal and education, He does ne
care about the least favored, and
the polls show that he has the com
fidence, as Nixon does not, of most
of the black community, Thal is pot
» trivial asset, for racial peace will
no be won by bayonets but by good-
will and good works, And finally,

Humphrey has had the wit to select a

 

That much being said, it must be
added that considering the disarray of
the Democratic Party, the character
of some of Humphrey’s allies (George
Meany, for instance), the anger and
frustration of the young and not so
young, the rise of right-wing radical-
ism and the probability of a more
conservative Congress in "69, it is hard
to imagine Humphrey’s mustering suf-
ficient power as President to cope
with our crises, We take it that this,
roughly, is the opinion of Walter
Lippmann. He believes that a Re-
publican Administration could more
easily end the war without stirring
up a hornet’s nest among the rabid
anti-communists, that a Nixon Ad-
ministration would be better placed
to draw some of the poison from the
vigilante right, and that in any case,
power should be given the out party
from time to time; it must in some
fashion come to grips with reality.
And the Democrats, no longer obliged
to defer to the man in the White
House, may speak more candidly,
more objectively about the nations
problems.

So why not Nixon? Men change,
and reporters who have been travel-
ing with him, including our own,
say that he is more genial than he
was, more secure, that his organiza-
tion is superb and that he is sur-
rounded by smart people. Would he
not be a more efficient, more political
Eisenhower? Perhaps he would. But
here come those unadmirable, nag-
ging memories. The record of Nixon’s
rise to eminence on the backs of sus-
pected “subversives,” of his uninvol-
vement with any of the central prob-
lems in our society, of his cheap
showmanship in Latin America and
in the Soviet Union is a familiar
story—to anyone over 25, And mem-
ories are not the whole of it. If
Nixon differs with the present Secre-

power, those differences can be cali-
brated in micro-units. His references
to “de-Americanizing” the war are
as vague, as unreliable, as the same
sentiments when expressed by Lyndon
Johnson.

The Republican nominee is for
rights, but would be reluctant

eral government to see that they are
enforced. To the cities, he offers his
faith that subsidized “free” enterprise
will find jobs for the unemployed,
educate the poorly skilled, build low-
income housing. And, as TRB re-
ports, he suggests it all cam be done
while raising defense expenditures
(more nuclear-powered ships, a high-
er-paid volunteer army), cutting the
budget and perhaps cutting taxes. He
favors “black capitalism,” but gives
no clue to the means by which poor
Negroes, lacking funds or managerial

, are to create the enter-
prises by which they are to lift them-
selves out of poverty, He would
rescue business from bureaucratice
harassment, in the hope that freer

from public surveillance, business
would somehow become more fe-
sponsible.

Then there's Agnew, uninformed,
tactless, a man who might have been
living in outer space this past decade
for all one can tell from his obtuse
utterances.

Choose if you can.

Unless the polls are wildly wrong,
this country will have a conservative
interregnum of at least four years.
It is not a time from which to expect
great leaps forward. If we are lucky,
Mr. Nixon will keep the lid from
blowing off—by not sitting on it too
tightly; crises will be ridden out. And,
meanwhile, new political energies and
ideas will find new forms,

They can be useful years of re-
appraisal and reorganization by the
outs—and not just reappraisal and re-
organizaion of the electoral process
or of the Democratic Party. Institu-
tions of all kinds, from labor unions
to Columbia University to the Catho-
lic Archdiocese of Washington, D.C
are decrepit. If they are not up
dated, they will be incapable of re-
sponding to modern-day needs and
desires, The unions particularly will
have to produce new spokesmen, new
educational programs if they are to
become a revitalizing force that com
mands respect. The academic com-
munity, which burst forth this year
with a dazzling show of political

initiative, will play an important part |

in political reformation, The primary
campaigns were an indicative prelude
The young in Chicago, whether in
hotels working for McCarthy, Me-
Govern or Kennedy, or in the parks
and streets testifying against the war,
proved the possibilities of renewel
What the young activists foretell is a

running mate who is qualified to be| new progressive partnership. What

President

(Continued on Page 4)

Quo vadit honor

In a series of recent actions Mr. Neil
Kessler, the Editor-in-Chief of The Friday
Ring-tum Phi, has called into question his
honor and the integrity of the newspaper. In
addition, what has happened has seriously im-
paired our faith in the application of the
Honor Code. With the failure of the Execu-
tive Committee and of the Publications Board’
to resolve effectively the issues at hand, it is
incumbent upon us to act as spokesman of
a responsible student body. We lay the facts
before our readers.

On October 19, 1968, The New Re-
public published an editorial entitled “Choose
If You Can.” This is reprinted” to the
left. On Friday, October 25, Mr. Kessler
published an editorial entitled “Choose A
Candiate—If You Can .. .” This is re-
printed to the right. In each editorial, all
duplicate words are in bold face type. Note
this similarity of text.

An official publication of this school en-
titled “Written Work and the Honor System
at Washington and Lee University” states
that “If the writer presents this . . . a close
paraphrase which is esentially a direct quota-
tion .. . as his own work, without the use of
any quotation marks, he is guilty of patent dis-
honesty. His use of a footnote alone is not
enough. Here is a clear-cut case of plagiarism
which can be demonstrated by a close exami-
nation of the passage . . . despite the changes,
however, the paragraph is in no sense the
writer’s own.” The Executive Committee met
on Tuesday, October 29, and decided that
Mr. Kessler’s actions did not fall under its
jurisdiction; this was not considered as plagi-
arism. We ask our readers, why was this
decision made?

The following Tuesday, November 4, the

 

“Composed of all regularly matriculated, present and
former Editors and Business Managers of the various
publications, namely: The Ring-tum Phi, The Calyx,
_ and the Director of Photography . . . and

and Ariel . .
one Alumnus and one Faculty Representative . .
Publications Board Constitution, section 4.

Publications Board met to consider this case.
During the course of his testimony to that
body, Mr. Kessler said that he had read The
New Republic, put it aside, and then had
written his editorial. Upon subsequent ques-
tioning, he said flatly that he had not looked
at The New Republic while writing his edi-
torial. Later, however, when asked for the
third time about this specific, he changed his
testimony, admitting that he had, in fact,
made use of the magazine throughout his writ-
ing of The Ring-tum Phi editorial. Despite the
overwhelming evidence on both questions,
the Publications Board failed to remove Mr.
Kessler as editor."

We do not, here, take issue with the
decisions reached by either the Executive
Committee or the Publications Board. Their
policies, if they are to be changed, must be
examined deliberately and comprehensively
by the student body and altered by due consti-
tutional processes.

On two counts, Mr. Kessler has proven
his disregard for the basic competence requir-
ed of an editor—especially since he represents
this University, which necessitates that he
exemplify General Lee’s honor. Mr. Kesslet’s
offenses can only cause both our confidence
in him and our faith in the application of the
Honor Code itself to be sharply diminished.

Mr. Kessler has been given ample op-
portunity—and more than ample justifica-
tion—to tender his resignation from the
editorship. How many walls must a man be
forced to face before the handwriting is also
seen? It is now, for Mr. Kessler, a question
of personal honor; quo vadit honor, we
wonder.

It is for these reasons we demand Mr.
Kessler’s immediate resignation as Editor-in-

Chief of The Ring-tum Phi.

2Copyright © 1968, Harrison-Blaine of New Jersey, Inc,

8Pp. 4, 5. On Friday, November 1, Mr. Kessler pub-
lished an acknowledgement, one week after the original
editorial had been printed.

‘Such a course of action is within the realm of powers
of the Publications Board.

 

 

BILL BROWN
Senior EC Member

DANNY M. LEONARD
Student Body Vice President

LEE HALFORD, JR.
Former EC Member

RAY HARTWELL

Chairman, Student Control Committee

PETE HENDRICKS
Senior Law EC Member

JOSEPH B. TOMPKINS, JR.
yphomore EC Member

JEFF WEXLER

Calyx Business Manager

THE EDITORIAL BOARD
The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi

Authorized notice of open Honor trial

A student has exercised his right of appeal to the student body on a decision of the Executive Commitice

regarding a question of Honor

Hy provision of the Constitution of the Student

Body, an Honor trial, open to members of the student

body will take place at 9 a.m. on Thursday, November 21, 1968, in Lee Chapel

Ring-tum Phi

For many of us this will be our
first opportunity to vote in a national
presidential election, And _ frankly,
we are disillusioned.

We are disillusioned about the na-
tional nominating conventions; we
are distatisfied with the hypocrisy of
politics, i.e., saying one thing to
get votes and doing another; we
object to the electoral college which
completely ignores the minority vote
in a state; and, above all, we are
unhappy about the candidates we have
to choose from. We will shed no
tear at the repudiation of the incum-
bent Administration, and raise no
cheer at the prospect of Richard
Nixon in the White House.

Neither Humphrey nor Nixon has
spoken the truth on Vietnam—that
this never was a war that should
have been fought by the United
States. Nor has either said, even in
general terms, how he thinks the con-
flict can be brought to an end with-
out further loss of life and destruc-
tion. Humphrey's opponents argue
that they have not been in charge
and are not therefore responsible for
this disaster. This a valid but weak
defense, since neither Nixon nor Wal-
lace has criticized the essentials of
the Johnson policy, They are freer
than Humphrey to speak, but they
have not said anything meaningful.

This does not make the Vice Presi-
dent any less guilty. He, too, has
had a chance to get off the Johnson
line. He might have endorsed the
moderate minority position on Viet-
at the Democratic National
Convention. Instead, he supported the
extremists, and he defended the police
for clubbing and gassing protsters in
the streets. Our thoughts’ on
Humphrey are not enhanced when
we hear that privately he really has
had grave doubts about the bomb-
ing. The Administration policies to
which Humphrey gave himself ard-
ently are now to be judged. This
is the way it should be. And this
hurts him, too, unless he repudiates
them.

Hubert Humphrey, we believe, is
no war lover, But neither is Nixon
or Lyndon Johnson, (We can't be
sure about George Wallace and his
ridiculous sidekick LeMay.) We as-
sume that both of the major candi-
dates would get us out of Vietnam,

issues. Militant protest will
make a new Administration's life
hard if it does not make peace. In
addition, any new Administration will
do something for the ghettos. Hum-
phrey, the nominee more willing to

use public resources to meet public

E

not, which will help him in
winning racial peace. In the final
analysis, racial peace will be won by
goodwill and good works, not by
force.

This much being said, it must be

1969 are taken into account, it his
hard to visualize Humphrey's gaining
enough support as President to cope
with our crises. Commentators like
Walter Lippmann believe this. He says
that

munisits. In all his policies Nixon's
middle-of-the-road philosophy would
keep the country’s elements equally
appeased,

Nixon has evidently changed. He
has become more genial and secure,
His organization is flawless and he is
surrounded by smart people. Bul has
he really changed? The meories of
the past mar the picture of the future
The record of Nixon's rise to emi-
nance on the backs of suspected
“subversives.” of his uninvolvement
with any of the central problems of
our society and of his showmanship
in Latin America and in the Soviet
Union still linger with us

His stands on current issues are
vague. If Nixon differs with the
present Secretary of State about the
prudent use of American military or
diplomatic power, i is not evident
His references to “de-Americanizing”
the war are unclear and sound like
those of Johnson. He is for civil
rights, but would be reluctant to use
the money power of the federal gov-
ernment to see that they are enforced,
He offers his faith that swibsidized free
_ enterprise will tind jobs for the un-
employed, educate the poorly skilled
| (Continved on Page 4)

 
Page 2

‘THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Staff editorial

 

The faculty as a legislature?

This term at W&L has seen the faculty emerge as seem-
ingly a dominant political force on the campus in many areas
of University life. Whether this trend is good or bad may
be merely academic, but I have serious doubts as to the ability
of the faculty, as a whole, to reason together efficiently under
their present structure.

This semester has seen the faculty having jurisdiction over
both the system of rush for the fraternities and the question
of the 5-day week, as well as the probable jurisdiction over
the recently proposed curriculum reforms. This year the
faculty has already had one special meeting to discuss Saturday
classes, and they plan another special meeting in early Decem-
ber. The agenda for the December 2 meeting is deferred
rush, and a meeting is scheduled for December 9 on the 5-day
week. This all points to the definite need for a new legislative
arrangement for the faculty, as the present system is much
too cumbersome and slow to meet the potential legislative
demands placed upon it.

Since the 5-day week proposal emerged from the special
faculty committee late in September, the faculty has virtually
scrapped the committee report and started from scratch. In
fact, the leading contender at the moment appears to be a
modification of a plan that had no support at all on the faculty
committee. Even yet, the faculty has had one extra meeting
on the 5-day week and may have even more before concluding
its discussion on Saturday classes.

There also appears to be a rather surprising lack of con-
trol or organization. Involved in the 5-day class debate is
first whether there should be only 5 days of classes and second
how is the schedule to be adjusted. It would seem most logical
to resolve the first issue then proceed to the second if necessary.
However, it appears that the faculty is attacking both problems
at once and if it is not even the will of the faculty to go to
the 5-day week, tremendous amounts of time will have been
expended on working up an adequate schedule.

Deferred rush provides a very similar example; the IFC,
under extreme pressure, was required to have a plan ready
for the November faculty meeting. As students are not privy
to the minutes of the faculty meetings, it appears as if faculty
debate and discussion over the issue are also far from com-
plete. Considering the momentous problems that the faculty
may have to face depending upon which plan they approve,
it would appear that prompt action would be most desirable.

No one can foretell how long the curriculum changes will
be under discussion before the faculty reaches their decision,
and one always has the fond hope that the proposed changes
will merely be the first of many involving the curriculum.

My basic point of contention is not the legitimacy of the
faculty’s jurisdiction over these matters, but the faculty as a
rule-making body. A group of 120 or so men, meeting once a
month for an hour and a half (according to faculty by-laws,
they must adjourn at 6 p.m.) cannot efficiently exert con-
tinuous, progressive, and active authority in all the areas which
they have tentatively entered.

In any group this large, in fact in many even smaller, there
are those who must have their own pet views heard and reheard
and there are those who must advance their own, often un-
realistic, motions which must be discussed and defeated. It
would seem that the faculty must either delegate its authority
to a smaller group or relinquish it. This delegation could be a
body of 30 or so faculty members selected by a mixed system
of election and ex officio criterion or it could be an almost
explicit agreement to automatically pass whatever is recom-
mended by a given committee.

There are those who doubt the faculty’s authority over
many of these issues. Do they have the authority to determine
what system the fraternities must rush by? Does this power
basically belong to the fraternities themselves unless reform
is urgently past due? Does not the administration have a more
basic claim to determination of the 5- or 6-day week? Should
not the students have some voice along the way in the structure
of the curriculum? Or should not the president of the Uni-
versity be given absolute authority to construct a unified plan
of curriculum in line with his theories of the liberal arts col-
lege? Can the faculty, as a collection of various departmental
and personal interests, devise a consistent theory of the cur-
riculum? If the faculty can not responsibly handle the powers
it has assumed, I feel they should be returned to the fraterni-
ties, the administration, or, perhaps, even the students.

—R.W.K.

Matters of Interest

, college debate trip ever for all the

Debaters win again WAL debaters.

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Concert will sponsor a perform-
ance of the Philarmonia Trio in Lee
Chapel, Tuesday, December 3, at
8 p.m.

The trio is composed of Charles
Libove, violin, Nina Lugovoy, piano,
and Alan Shulman, cello. All three
artists have renowned reputations as
soloists and have pooled their talents
for an ensemble distinguished by its
exceptional homogeneity of sound
and musical communication.

Charles Libove, first violinist of the

LETTERS T

Letters to the editor which are
intended for publication must bear
the author's signature.

Beaux-Arts String Quartet, was form-
erly with the Paganini Quartet. Nam-
ed Laureate at the first International
Enesco Violin Competition in Bu-
charest, Rumania, he has appeared
widely in the United States and
Europe as a soloist with major
orchestras and as a recitalist. He is
currently visiting professor and
artist-in-residence at New York State
University in Potsdam.

The “New York Herald Tribune,”

commenting on the trio, said of him,
“Mr. Libove is a violinist who makes

THE EDITOR

 

 

 

 

   

 

Board to punish is discretionary in the |
board itself. They chose not to re-|

: : : they were clearly empowered to take. |
Lee examines resignation
of Friday editor their discretion. They have clearly
Editor, Tuesday Ring-tum Phi: not acted in technical disregard of
a z , | their duty. I would much prefer not
There appears elsewhere in today’s | ig find fault in their decision, 1 join
edition of your publication lengthy in requesting editor Kessler to con-
comment on, and criticism of, recent sider the possibility of resignation,
acts of Friday editor Kessler. YOu) apart from the decision of the
demand his resignation. Executive Committee or the Publica-
Each year we elect from among | tions Board. s/Randy H. Lee
ourselves an Executive Committee of Law, “69
responsible students willing to take
on the time-consuming and often
thankless task of governing the stu-
dent body within the constitutional
bounds of their power, and often-
with the consent of faculty and ad-
ministration—beyond te bounds. | Editor, The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi:
Far more important to me, however,| It was reported in last Friday's
as a member of the student body,| Ring-tum Phi that I cast the “lone
is their role in administering the | dissenting vote” on a motion brought
honor system. When we consider the | '0 the floor by my colleague, Danny
qualifications of these men, there is |! eonard, Indeed I did vote negatively,
or should be implicit in each vote | However, in recording my vote as
a willingness to trust them in their| he did without clarification, the re-
decisions regarding possible breaches | porter—in somewhat typical Friday
of the honor system and its require-| Ring-tum Phi style- -misrepresented
ments of conduct. Those decisions| the circumstances surrounding what
must be respected if the entire sys-| actually happened, and in doing so
tem is to be respected, Because | do | fashioned the connotation that 1 must
respect the system, I respect the de-| be 100% bigoted and blindly opposed
termination of the commitiee in this|'O any type of investigation that
case. | therefore do not care to be| could eventually lead to change on
associated with any part of your] this campus.

Bill Brown calls foul
on Friday reporting

 

Leonard talked of ending the “utter
homogenity in the student body.” |
objected to the phrase “utter homo-
geneity” because (1) it was never de-
fined, and (2) thus undefined, the con-
notation | had of the phrase indicated
a condition which I do not feel exists
here. | further objected to the use
of the word “integration” in the
phrase “ evaluation of this uni
versity’s commitiment to the integra-
tion idea.” To a great many people
the word “integration,” as it is used
today, has come to mean elimination
of barriers between the black and
white only Anyone who was
present at the meeting knows this is
not what Danny meant. He meant
integration in the broad sense of the
integration of all all
backgrounds, ete. My ob
jection was, however, that if this
meaning not emphasized, the

erroneous conclusion in a matter of
honor,

This is not to say that the twelve
who judge honor are, as an entity, in-
| fallible. It is to say, however, that
| their judgments are to be respected
| whatever they may be. It is is not for
| the student body or any individual
| within it to set itself or himself up
as a second honor council to review
all decisions of the constitutionally
authorized committee. Where an indi-
vidual has been found by the Ex-
ecutive Committee not to have ex
hibited the standards expected of
him by the system, and the expulsion
penalty is, as always, automatically
l|invoked, that individual may appeal
his case to the student body, This)
procedure is constitutionally authoriz | word
ed and in the interest of substantial
| justice. Where, however, the Execu
tive Committee has determined that

 

races

 

 

races
economic

was

 

The Phitharmonia Trio features Charles Libove, violin, Nina Lugovoy, piano, and Alan Shulman, cello,

Superb ensemble will play here

quire a resignation, a course of action |

: | : . . .
It is to be remembered that they are| United States, Cananda, and Europe.

empowered to apply that sanction at |

Tile
Hi ed |

his instrument sing and who under-
stands the refinements of ensemble
playing.

Pianist Nina Lugovoy has toured
throughout the United States and
Europe as a member of noted cham-
ber music groups and has _per-
formed extensively as a solo fre-
citalist and in sonata recitals with her
husband, Charles Libove. Among her
recent activities have been appear-
ances at the Spoleto Festival, festi-
vals in Yugoslavia and as guest artist

during the Lincoln Center Mozart
Festival of 1967.
Alan Shulman, a charter member

of the NBC Symphony under To-
scanini, has been a member of the
Kreiner String Quartet and is co-
founder of the Stuyvesant String
Quartet. A profilic composer as well
as a performer, Shulman’s works have
been performed by major orchestras
and leading soloists throughout the

These artists, performing together
as the Philharmonia Trio, have been
widely acclaimed by both audiences
and critics throughout the country.

The next performance of the cur-
rent Concert Guild season will take |
place February 12 when the group|
will present Oscar McCullough, a
locally known singer and teacher at
Hollins College. McCullough, with
Herman Reutter assisting with the}

 

By WALT JACKSON

Wherever one turns in Lexington,
there are plaques and monuments re-
calling the role which the city has
played in American history. The
Rockbridge Historical Society is re-
sponsible for much of the work of
preserving this heritage.

Dr. Charles W. Turner of the WAL
History Depariment is 4 past presi-
dent of the society and has long)
taken an active interest in the organi-|

 

Rockbridge Historical Society
preserves Lexington’ heritage

Riegel charges

news reporters

to tell full story

Professor Oscar W. Riegel, in an
article for the Summer 1968 edition
of the “College and University Jour-
nal.” has urged today’s newsmen to

“tell it like it is.” The article was
reprinted in the November edition
of the American Society of News-

paper Editors’ “Bulletin.”

Journalism professor and former
head of the department, Professor
Riegel! has had a varied journalistic
career. He is the author of two books,
“Mobilizing for Chaos, The Story of
the New Propaganda” and “Crown of
Glory, The Life of James John
Strang, Moses of the Mormans.”

Professor Riegel, in addition, has
written articles for such respected
publications as the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, the Christian Science Moni-
tor, and the Public Opinion Quarterly.

Before joining the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1930, Professor Riegel
had held positions on the staffs of
the Chicago Tribune and the New
York Daily News. He has been a
foreign correspondent, traveling wide-
ly in both western and eastern Europe
and Central America. Professor
Riegel is also a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, and
Sigma Delta Chi.

In his article, Professor Riegel
praises today’s newspapermen for be-
ing “neater and cleaner... much more
stable . . . and more sophisticated in
technical knowledge.” However, he
has some criticisms as well.

For example, he feels that “news-
papermen seem less irreverent now,
less innovative, less smart-alecky, less
wide-ranging and curious in their in-
terests, less willing to whack away at
all forms of pretentiousness and
human folly.”

Professor Riegel also feels that the
American journalist has become
identified with and sympathetic to
“the Establishment,” which causes him
to largely ignore and gloss over the
dissatisfied and revolutionary forces
throughout the world.

As a result of this complacency on
the part of American newspapermen,
Professor Riegel writes that the pub-
lic is “constantly being taken by sur-
prise.” He continues: “We resent not
only the events themselves that sur-
prise us, but also the information
channels that didn’t prepare us for

piano, will offer a program of Lieder. them.”

extensive collection of original letters,
a few from notable historical figures
such as Robert E. Lee and Thomas
Jefferson, but most of them from
ordinary Lexington citizens of the
past.

“Many of these letters may seem
insignificant,” Dr. Turner remarked,
“But sometimes they can provide in-
teresting material for research papers
and may be helpful in geneological
study,”

The society is currently trying to

zation. Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw and Dr. | buy the Withrow-Leyburn House on

Allen W. Moger are also members| the corner of Washington and Main
of the association, which includes pro-

position which implies, or from which Actually what I objected to was f f VMI and \ streets. It hopes eventually to re-
it might be inferred, that the Ex-ftwo instances of wording in the mo-| ‘®0Fs [rom VNEE and townspeople. | store the home, which was once
ecutive Committee has come to an} tion which I fell were inaccurate. Mr A major project of the historical) owned by ancestors of WAL sociolog-

society is maintaining “The Castle,”| ist Dr. James G. Leyburn. Along
a stone house at 6 Randolph St. which| with the Society for the Preservation
serves as a museum. The association) of Virginia Antiquities, the historical
cannot afford to keep it open to the | association sponsors an annual tour
public, but Dr. Turner and other! of old homes in Lexington in October
members will conduct interested per-| In another historical project, W&l
sons through the house upon request.| student Jeff Wexler is collecting and

The Castle was built shortly after| indexing information from the tomb-
the town of Lexington was chartered) stones in Stonewall Jackson ceme-
in 1778. The house served as a} tery. Wexler is working under a fed-
lawyer's office, WAL dormitory, and| eral grant and last year was the
residence of professors and towns-| recipient of the Wal Society of the
people before it was willed to the! Cincinnati Award for historical re-
society. search

The museum houses Indian arti The Rockbridge Historical Society
facts, rude farm and household im-| holds four meetings a year and has
plements from pioneer days, and early | published six volumes of proceed
American furniture. The walls are) ings. The Civil War is the most
covered with portraits and photo-| common subject of lectures before
graphs of prominent men of local! the society

 

| history and sketches of the WAl
campus as it has changed over the

(past century

> a

Papers have also been
on famous Rockbridge
Countians such Bishop William
Taylor, a Methodist clergyman who

presented

as

At Morris Harvey University over
the past weekend, WAI
John Reynolds, Kenny Murov, Kenny
Cribb and Roger Martin won ten
trophies and awards in a 4 round
novice tournament held at the Charl-
eston, West Virginia school,

Out of a field of 60 debaters and
18 schools, Reynolds won the best
speaker trophy, while Murov tied for
third place. The Reynolds-Murov
team, debating on the negative side
of the debate topic won 4 of 4 and
won the top negative trophy

While Martin and Cribb on the
affirmative had a 2-2 record, this
combined with the four negative wins
eave WAL an overall 6-2 record and
a second place finish in the four man
team competition. VMI won the
trophy for the best four man team
with a 7-1 record. This was the first

debaters | Tim

This coming weekend, Kevin Baker, | there has been no failure to uphold
Wright, John McCardell, and | the expected standard of honor, that
| Bill Radigan will participate in the| ends the question; I write essentially
| Dixie Classic at Wake Forest Uni-| only to say that | agree that the
| versity in Winston-Salem, and then | question should properly end at that
over the Thanksgiving weekend, Stacy | point

Eastland and Charles Smith will join) Editor Kessler was, however, ask
McCardell and Radigan in Washing-| ed to appear before the Publications
ton, D.C. for the Georgetown tourna-| Board to explain his actions This ad
iment in D.C | ministrative body is not charged with
-_—-——-- lenforcine any indefinable or elusive
| quality, Their duty is, rather, to make
certain that printed matier bringing
the name of the University to the
attention of the public is produced
in a professional manner. Any pro
i fession must depend on the integrity
| of those who practice it. If the facts
as alleged against editor Kessler are
true, | am in complete accord with
any who maintain that he has failed
this requirement of professional in
| tegrity, The power of the Publications

Foreign Study

At $:00 p.m, on Thursday in du
Pont auditorium, the Foreign Study |
Committee will present the opportuni
ties open to students interested
foreign study, work, or life abroad
with a foreign family

For the student interested in work
ing abroad during the summer there
will be much information

the

!

i clarified
|
could not

 

word “integration” would be read in
narrow thus
stood-—and the spirit of
would be lost
these phrases in hopes they would be
were 1 huis |
for a motion which

scrise misunder
his moton
1 raised objections to
They not
vole
could mean something differen io a
person who had heard the discussion
surrounding the would

understand what the motion actually

motion and
meant, and someone who would pick
Ring-tum Phi and
and

up a copy of the
run the risk of
rect interpretation of the mobon

a narrow mor

thes«
but

fe port ne

1 was
objection
the grow neg!
by the R-A-P repre
did a fine job of misrepresenting iy
| hope
how contintte

very vox n raning

i mecting

eres

{
of the

ihe
wniative cerian

position such oversights will

s/ Hill Brown, 6°

Turner's special interest is the
museums collection of old books,
imany of which were willed to the
by Rockbridge County resi
He has catalogued an

founded missions in Africa and Asia:
Andrew Moore, the first U.S, senator
from west of the Appalachian mount
aims; and Big-foot Wallace, a hero
of the Texas war of independence

The Ring-tum Phi—Tuesday

The King-ium Phi is published Tuesdays and Fridays during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
| University, The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450

Entered as second class matter Sepiember 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879

Subscription rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester

LARRY HONIG GLENN MOORE

Editor-in-Chiet Business Manger

sociely
dents also
|
|
|

Managing Editor
News Editor

Editorial-Page Editor

Reed Byrum
Reeve Kelsey

Robert H. Yevich
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

O. W. Riegel, journalism professor and former head of the department, |
has recently published an article which criticizes today’s journalists as less |
curious and less willing to dig out stories on their initiative. The article
was first published this summer in the “College and University Journal,”
See the related article on page 2. —photo by Foster

Sa

 

Washington and Lee artist in residence, Ray Prohaska, poses beside one of
his monoprints on exhibition in du Pont, —photo by Foster

 

Films series
from the world
begins next week

A series of ten films from all
lover the globe will be presented at
| Washington and Lee beginning No-
ivember 26.

The films are being sponsored by
| Bradley Gunter, instructor in English,
and John Jennings, assistant profes-
of journalism. They decided to
organize a film series at the beginning
of this semester when they realized
that all good schools participated in
similar cultural programs, Their main
objective was to get as broad a range
of movies as possible

Already scheduled are two films
teach from the United States, France
and Italy, and one film each from
| Germany, Japan and Russia

The first showing will be “Wir
| Wunderkinder” on November 26

The remainder of the movies will
be shown on Thursday evenings, be
ginning on December § with “Nights
,| of Cabiria,” by Federico
| Fellini, Other films to be presented
include “Breathless,” staring Jean
| Paul Belmondo; “L Atalante,” a classic
idirected by Jean Vigo: “tkiru,” Akira

Hill’s Barber Shop
WE AIM TO PLEASE
Below the Lyric

 

 

The Country Kitchen
Breads, Cakes, Pastries
K-inch Decorated Cake $3.00
H-inch Just teed $2.00
PHONE 463-5691

 

 

sor

 

Bring the Hollins

Road Team to

FRANK’S

(Intersection of
Williamson Rd. and Ri, 11)

Hollins, Va.

eo ae

directed

 

The

SPORTSMAN CLUB |) Kurosuwa's best film, “Dames,” a
Busby Berkeley musical with Ruby

S010 WILLIAMSON ROAD Keeler, Zasu Pitts, Dick Powell and
ROANOKE, VA, 'Joan Blondell; “Potemkin,” a classic
directed by Eisenstein; and = eight

Available for shorts, including the last film by

: : Buster Keaton
Private Parties rickets for the film series cost $8
and may be obtained at the Uni

ACCOMADATES 200
Ace, 228

versity Bookstore, Reid 201, Reid Wl
to that body. Faculty will
hy permitted to attend, but they will
not be recognized from the floor

366-7978 —

members

 

 

 

Washington and Lee University
Hookstore

THE MODERN LIBRARY

| able
‘had objected, specifically those in the

 

Hardback Books at

Paperback Prices!

In the IFC last night they passed

/a motion which was introduced sev-
/eral weeks ago and tabled to allow
‘girls above the first floor of the fra-

ternity houses. A petition will be
drawn up and formally presented to

ithe Student Affairs Committee to al-
‘low this revision of the faculty regu-

lations.
The principle motive behind the

IFC's passage of this motion appeared

to be to restore the balance of upper-
classmen who actually live in the

| fraternity houses.

Dave Stovall introduced a motion
that would give the Rush Committee

| of the IFC wide discretion in schedul-

ing the smokers for next year’s prob-
rush system. Many professors

athletic department, that freshmen
would not go on athletic trips if they
had to miss an important rushing
function. The committee would hope-
fully be able to avoid as many of

| the conflicts as possible.

Carter mentioned the “Stags” edi-
torial that appeared in last Friday's
Ring-tum Phi; he felt that this was
not much of a problem and that,
even so, the Judicial Board and the
IFC had little jurisdiction over this
matter. It was the consensus of the
IFC that no problem really existed in
this area,

A motion introduced by Jay Wetsel
to divide the faculty up among the
IFC members present to be talked
to in a public relations campaign was
defeated. The object of the campaign
was to try to give every faculty mem-
ber a chance to ask geustions about
the fraternity point of view. This
motion was defeated but Carter urged
every member of the IFC to try
to see as many professors as possible.

Bill Tyler, head of the blood drive,
said that the program was going

EC meeting

The Executive Committee held a
rather uneventful meeting last night
in relevance to legislation, but in the
course of the evening brought to
light the possibility of the relaxation
of dormitory regulations concerning
women and the anticipated construc-
tion of lounges in the dormitories.

The first order of business was a
request by Judson Simmons, Secretary
of the EC, to purchase a tape-record-
er from a student for $100; this
machine will be used for the taping
of honor trials. It was cited by Sim-

 

mons that this recorder was of much |

greater quality than a newly bought

one of a slightly higher price. The mo- |

tion was seconded by Staman
Ogilvie and passed unanimously,

The highlight of the meeting was
the presentation of the report of the
Upper-Class Dorm Committee, head-
ed by freshman law
tom Gosse. He reported that upon
appointment he immediately contact-
ed Frank Parsons,
President, to discuss the possibility
of adding lounges to the upper-class
dorms.

Mr. Parsons then spoke to Dean
Atwood and President Huntley about
this matter and proceeded to have
blueprints drawn up and formal plans
made. Pour areas in the two dormi
tories are now being considered for
lounges, but final formulation of the
plans can not be done until the funds
are alloted and President Huniley
gives his final approval

The final consideration of the EC
was the Bitch-In planned for Mon
day, November 25, at 8:00 p.m. in
duPont Auditorium. Posters will be
placed about the campus later this
week and next Monday, announcing
the proposed meeting, and EC repre
sentatives will visit fraternity houses
on Monday to remind the student
body of the open forum

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA

 

NOW SHOWING

 

 

 

 

representative, |

Assistant to the

IFC votes to request SAC
to relax parietal rules

“pretty well;” he noted that the final
deadline for submitting cards for
those students under 21 was Thurs-
day. He said that slips would be
sent to the parents seeking their per-
mission with a covering letter from
Dean Atwood.

IFC president Clark Carter ques-
tioned Dean Atwood as to whether
he considered the possibility of the
faculty postponing rush for the en-
tire year an “immoral act?” Dean
Atwood replied that it would be in-
deed an “immoral act” considering
the faculty resolution called for either

A WOR ORS ORDER:

 

 

 

one-semester rush or rush after the
freshman year, but he continued, it
is entirely within the power of the
faculty to make such a decision.

Carrere said that the IFC must
again reopen the doors of communi-
cation with the faculty in regard to
the deferred rush proposal, and that
the IFC should not lose any op-
portunity to educate and talk to mem-
bers of the faculty concerning de-
ferred rush.

 

Sen. McGovern here for Contact

Charles Evers scheduled
with educator, journalist

At last night’s IFC meeting, Con-

tact chairman, Sam Hinkle, announc-
ed that four speakers including South
Dakota Senator George McGovern
have been scheduled for this year’s
symposium on power. The remaining
three speakers are John R, Silber,
Dean of Students at University of
Texas—Austin, Philippe Labro, a
French journalist, and Charles Evers,
brother of murdered Medgar Evers
and defeated candidate for Congress.

The Contact theme attempts to
analyze all forms of power including
political, student and black power.
Hinkle also said that he hoped to
obtain another speaker to talk on
man’s power over nature as in a
heart-transplant operation. He also
hoped to obtain another speaker to
summarize the whole program.

Hinkle also noted that he has talk-
ed to Troubadour director, Lee Kahn
in hopes of having a Troub play
based on a theme of power produced
that same week.

George McGovern was a candidate
for the Democrat presidential nomi-
nation this year. His generally dovish
position on Vietnam won him the
unofficial mantle as the “Kennedy
candidate.” McGovern, who has a
PhD from Northwestern University,
received his BA from Dakota Wes-
leyan University in 1946.

McGovern was elected to the Sen-
ate in 1963 after serving as director
of President Kennedy's Food for
Peace program. He first entered poli-
tics in 1955 when he was first elected
to the House of Representatives. He

LR oR AE MN fe
ot UEP x 1) Lo AN nf 5 ad i Nit

Thursday, Nov, 21
8:00 p.m.—Student Bar Association presents Mr. Paul DeWitt, Executive
Secretary of the Association of Bar of New York. Alumni House.
Refreshments will be served.

| 5:00 p.m.—Biology Seminar. “Jellyfish Ecology in Chesapeake Bay.” Robert

Comegys. Room 305. New Science.

Friday, Nov.
5:00 p.m.—Chemistry seminar. Two junior chemistry majors present a double
header, Mr. Kurt Seidman, “The Search for a Better Analgesic”
and Mr. William A. Wilson, “Mushroom Protein.” Howe Hall

401.

Tuesday, Nov. 26
5:00 p.m.—Biology seminar. Mr. Anthony B. Berliner, “Echolocation in

Bats.” New Science 305,

Wednesday, Nov, 27

1:00 p.m.

 

 

 

Thanksgiving holidays begin.

 

was reelected to his Senate seat in
this fall’s election.

Charles Evers took over the posi-
tion of field secretary of the NAACP
in 1963 after his brother was murd-
ered by a sniper. In March of 1968
he ran in a special election to fill the
congressional seat vacated by John
Bell Williams. He polled 33,713 votes
vs. 114,786 cast for 6 white candi-
dates.

Evers then lost in the run-off to
Charles Griffin, a congressional aid
to Williams by the total of 87,761
for Griffin to 43,083 for Evers.

John Robert Silber is Dean of
Students at the Austin branch of the
University of Texas and a member
of the department of philosophy. He
received his PhD from Yale in 1956
and his BA from Trinity in 1947. He
studied in Germany in 1960 while he
was a guest lecturer at the University
of Bonn. He also received a Gug-
genheim fellowship at the University
of London and Oxford.

Philippe Labro is a French journ-
alist writing for “Paris Match” or
“L’Express.” Labro, a W&L graduate,
will comment on the Paris uprisings
last spring.

She Bie Bie Me Be hn Ba Bln Ba a ha Ba Ba a
eT Te ee ee eT eee

 

VARIOUS COMBOS

ie ln le Ms Sg a Bin Me i Bi i ee
See eT SSeS

4
: 708 Franklin Rd. ;
IN ROANOKE :
4
; Tuesday-Wednesday :
ROYAL KINGS ;
4
Thursday-Sunday :
4
. ‘
,.
; “

he lhe he Be he he he Ba Ba Ba Ba ha he Ba ha ha Ba Ba Ba Ba Ba Be
eee ee ee eee

 

 

 

The
THUNDERBIRD
CLUB
ROANOKE, VA.
Doors Open 8:30
Available for Private Parties
College Students Welcome

ONE MILE FROM
HOLLINS COLLEGE

362-3624

 

 

 

 

Bell System Interviewers will be on
campus November 21.

 

And they’ll be representing AT&T—
Long Lines, and the Bell Telephone Com-
panies across the country. These are
the people who can tell you all about
opportunities for top graduates in Man-
agement, Engineering, Research and
Development. There are openings in
most major U.S. cities. There may be
one for you. To arrange for an appoint-
ment, contact the Placement Office in
Washington Hall.

An equal opportunity employer

The CaP Telephone Company of Virginia

Part of the Nationwide Bell System

&
 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

ii NH

HM Da

 

Generals thrash Bears to close season

After some initial setbacks in the
first half, Washington and Lee rallied
strongly to defeat Washington U. 14-3
for the first time since 1961. The
Generals kept the visitors’ offense
bottled up all afternoon, and finally
won it on their own fine passing at-
tack. In one of his finest perform-
ances ever, Bucky Cunningham broke
one school record and tied another in
his final game on Wilson Field.

Cunningham hauled in six passes
Saturday to once again tie the rec-
ord for most catches in a season, 44.
He did manage to break the season
pass-catching yardage record, though.
He only needed some thirty-seven
yards to break the record of 493.
After a short pass did the trick in
the third quarter, Bucky put the
record under lock and key by taking
in a forty-five yard bomb in the end
zone. He ended up with 532 yards
for the season,

After threatening once in the first
quarter, the Bear's finally got onto
the scoreboard early in the second
period. A sustained drive had brought

Bucky Cunningham pulls in one of the Chuck Kuhn (10) aerials which gave him a new season-pass-yardage record, them down to about the Generals’
—photo by Foster fifteen where the defense had dug in

 

dV. booters shine thru murky fall sports

With Saturday's football triumph, | Clarke and Johnny Yow next year,, tary.

this year’s fall sports season came to}
an end. With one exception, it was
hardly a great one. The gridders, who |
looked so good before the season, |
failed to catch fire in their initial |
games and stumbled to a 3-5-1 rec-|
ord. After winning their first few
meets, the Harry Zeliff-led harriers
had to hold on tight at season's end |
to salvage a 6-5 winning mark. To}
some, the injury-plagued soccer team
might have seemed the biggest dis-
appointment of all. The booters, who |
will be led by co-captains Doug!

finished with a 3-5-1 record. But
there is hope for next year:

The one exception to the dismal
overrall picture was the J.V. soccer
team. Playing a schedule of good
closely knit prep school teams, who
usually demolish the Brigadiers, they
ended up with five wins against only
two losses. Instrumental in their fine
record was a closing flurry of four
straight wins.

The Baby Blue got off to a slow}
start, losing two of their first three to
Hargrave Military and Augusta Mili-|

 

lost
re-

While last year’s edition
to HMA, this year’s got
venge the second time around. Led
by center fullback Don Belt, who
scored three goals, the Brigadiers took
their toll of HMA to end the season,

twice

Next year there should be several
fine performers up from this year’s
1.V. to aid the varsity. Belt saw
extensive varsity duty this year.
Others are high-scoring Paul Miller,
co-captains Jeff Driscoll in goal and
Chuck Arnold at center fullback,
halfback Pete Homans, inside Carter
Redd, and Sandy Baylis.

 

 

 

Ring-tum Phi ;

(Continued from Page 1)

and build low-income housing. At
the same time, he suggests it can all
be done while raising defense ex-
penditures, cutting the budget and
cutting taxes. He favors “black capit-
alism,” but gives no clue to the means
by which poor Negroes, lacking funds
or managerial experience, are to
create their own businesses.

Then there’s Agnew. Compared to
Muskie. . . well, there is no compari-
son.

If we felt we could endorse cither
Humphrey or Nixon, we would,

Choose if you can. We can't.

Weekly Football Contest

eWODDY=

ete tila

“renee FTAs ie) as ——

sa

SERO

Aluin-

Shirts by

EAGLES
at

ennis

Yale vs. Harvard

HOLBROOK

 

Telephone
Duck Pins, Ten Pins

Michigan vs.

Civic Bowling Center

14 EAST NELSON STREET

9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Until—Monday-Saturday
W@&L Intramural and Phys. Ed. Center

463-4033
and Slot Car Racing

Ohio State

 

“Farah” Slacks

Top Quality Clothes at Prices

you can afford

Efeggett

Main Street

Syracuse vs. West Virginia

“Arrow Shirts”

 

to be

SHOP BRAND NAMES

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons, Inc.

Sweaters by Puritan

Shirts by Manhattan
OPPOSITE BR. BE. LER HOTEL

Indiana vs. Purdue

sure

 

 

Adair-Hutton

OF LEXINGTON, VA,

"Because We Care”

 

 

* Open Daily 9:30 to
® Phone 463-4721

K ansas v5

® 3 Easy Ways to Shop: Cash - Charge - Layaway

5:30 Except Fri. 8:50

Missourt

 

 

South Carolina vs. Clemson

 

Win Cash Prizes

Pick the winners in each ad on this page. The person getting the most

correct wins first prize; next best,

second prize. In case of a tie the

closest guess at the actual score of the tie breakers listed below will
win. The contest is open to anyone except members of the RING-TUM
PHI. Entries must be postmarked before Noon on Saturday (Box 899)
or brought to the RING-TUM PHI office in the Print Shop by Noon
Saturday. Only one entry per person,

FIRST PRIZE—$5.00
SECOND PRIZE—$2.50

Official Entry Blank

Advertisers
Alvin-Dennis
Civic Bowling Center
Leggett’s
J. Ed. Deaver & Sons
Adair-Hutton
Woody Chevrolet
College Town Shop
McCrum’s Drug Store
Clark’s Billiards
East Lexington Grocery

] and H Cafeteria

TIE
Michigan

Tulsa
Name

Addi css

Winners

BREAKERS

Ohio State

Houston

and held. On fourth down, specialist
Steve Oliver came in to kick a
| twenty-eight yard field goal, the first
|one seen on Wilson Field this year.

| As the clock was running out in
the half, the Generals began to show
some life. With only thirty-two sec-
onds left, Drew Kumpuris intercepted
a Washington pass on their thirty,
and ran it back all the way to the
sixteen. On the first play from
scrimmage, Chuck Kuhn was trapped
behind the line, and just managed to
throw it away as he was going down.
Once again, on second down, the
Blue offensive line failed to hold, and
Kuhn was dumped on the twenty.
Fortunately the ball was centered for
a field goal try. Time remained for
one more TD attempt, though, so
Kuhn fired to Joe Dozier in the end
zone. Gary Meredith intercepted.
Ihe gun went off,

.
New Republic

(Continued from Page 1)
they want is integrity. What they will
have is a community that responds to
bitter grivances constructively and
charitably. And where the Demo-
cratic Party remains closed to them,
they will work outside if for their
objectives.

The old school tie is much in
vogue this month, used as a noose
around the neck of any liberal who
doesn’t play the Democratic game:
poor sport, bad show. Well, sitting
on the sidelines doesn’t become a
political journal of opinion, and if
we could endorse Humphrey (or
Nixon) we would. We can’t. There
jare excellent candidates running for
a variety of other offices throughout
the country. But the only vote we
|can cast for the top of the ticket is
la vote of no confidence.

 

It was an entirely different second
half. The Generals stifled the Bear's
attack with an effective pass rush,
and the offensive line not only pro-
tected Kuhn, but started clearing
holes for Dozier and Gossman. At
12:28 of the third quarter, the other
Kumpuris brother, Dean, interecepted
another pass on the Washington 40
and brought it down to their ten
on a runback which looked like it
might go all the way. It wasn’t neces-
sary. The first time Kuhn got the
ball, he fired a pass complete to
Steve Mahaffey in the corner of the
end zone.

Just minutes later, the Generals
held the Bears deep in their own
territory. The punt to Dave Brooks
was returned to the Washington
forty, and another score looked to
be in the offering. But on the first
offensive play, Kuhn’s pass was in-
tercepted and brought to the visitors’
forty-five. This was the best field
position the Bears had had in some
time, and a score by them might
have changed the complexion of the
game, but on first down, quarterback
Prentke bobbled the snap and John
Harris of W&L recovered.

Following his example of the last
two offensive series, Kuhn decided to
go for the TD right off. With plenty
of time in the pocket, he lofted a
high lazy pass to Bucky Cunningham
on the five who was more than seven
yards in front of his defender.
Baizley’s point after made it 14-3, the
final outcome.

From that time on, Washington
was powerless. Except for a short
lived drive in the fourth quarter they
never again made it out of their own
territory. With about two minutes to
play, Charlie Freret interecepted a
Bear pass on his own 31 and the
| Blue were able to stall out most of
| the rest of the clock.

 

 

Sponsored by the

Business Firms on this page

Slacks by
Corbin
Austin Hill

 

Arkansas vs

College Taiun SeroHathaway

Alan Paine
Sweaters

Shop

Bostonian
Florsheim
Shoes

. Texas Tech

 

McCrum’s

STORE

Saturday . . .
Gamay «et

“CHOOSE YOUR DRUGGIST AS YOU WOULD YOUR DOCTOR”
CALL 463-2323

Monday thru Friday 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.

Southern Cal vs. UCLA

Drug Store

HOURS

- 8 am, to 7 p.m,
- 8 am. to 6 p.m.

 

Clark’s

Meet your friends
relax—Play Billiards

Watch the Game in Color

Stanford vs. California

Billiards

 

8 am.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY

Tulsa vs.

East Lexington Grocery

Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week

' EVENING

10 p.m.
DINNERS

Houston

 

J and H

Next to the

OPEN: 1100

Duke v

 

Lexington Shopping Center

4:40 p.m.

Cafeteria
A&P in the

am.-3:00 pum,
8:30 p.m.

UNC

Ss

 
