 

 

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

he Ring-tum Phi

 

 

Volume LXVIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 8, 1968

Number 6

 

 

‘The way

I see it’

(Editor's note: “The way I see it”
is a column of general editorial
comment for which contributions
are solicited from students and
faculty concerning any topic. The
opinions expressed in this column
do not necessarily represent those
of The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi.)

By REED BYRUM
Managing Editor

The IFC last night continued to
promote its traditional reputation of
ludicrous absurdity and apathetic in-
activity in its pre-
sentation of its de-
fered rush plan.

As was bDlat-
antly admitted by
President Clark
Carter, this pro-
posal represents
only a_philosophi-
cal view of defer-
red rush, purposed
by the attempt to
satiate the almost
rabid desires of the faculty for a
change in rushing; he stated that the
practical part of this plan would be
worked out later.

Yet,
ous that the impotent Deferred Rush
Committee has taken 15 months al-
ready to formulate this impractical
and unrealistic program. In addition
to its lack of application to a realistic
situation, the present proposal reeks
with haziness, superficiality, and in-
justice; one can only presume that the
Deferred Rush Committee in its ulti-
mate lack of insight in the future
crystallization of this plan has been
completely vain and worthless.

 

Perhaps the most inapplicable and
nebulous section of the plan is the
part concerning no contact. This sec-
tion in particular exemplified the
phantasmagoric buffoonery of the en-
tire proposal. The IFC conceivably

(Continued on Page 4)

Weather

Tonight: Cool, low 42-48.
Wednesday: Sunny and warm,
Thursday: Seasonably w warm.

it seems to be rather ridicul-|

 

| ment
| plans,
} as to the alternate procedures.

| 1:15 p.m.
| giving to the delegates. The luncheon

 

The LF.C. in debate over the deferred rush proposal.

Photo by Honig

 

Fifty students to represent
student body at ceremony

Some fifty students will represent
the entire student body at the inau-
guration of President Robert E. R.
Huntley. They were chosen from the
upper classmen who are the leaders
of the student body. Freshmen were
not selected because they had not
yet had the opportunity to show their
qualities as student leaders. Both fra-
ternity and non-fraternity men were
chosen.

Student representatives will partici-
pate in the academic procession. They
will assemble on the second floor of
Newcomb Hall not later than 10:30
a.m. on Friday, October 18. They
will march with the other members
of the procession and will sit in the
section reserved for them. If incle-
weather forces a change of
the students will be informed

They will attend the luncheon at
which the University is

will be in Evans dining room.
Participation in the procession is

 

 

WAL sculptor David Hall and photographer Howard Hammersley consider

a pleasing layout for pictures.

Phoio by Honig

University maintenance loans: a news report

 

 

only a part of the role to be played
by the students in the inaugural pro-
gram. Members of the honorary music
fraternity will be the ushers for the
concert on Thursday evening at 7:45;
other students will act as ushers for
the seating of the guests at the inau-
gural ceremony at 11 a.m. on Friday.

The Brass Choir will play for the
procession and other students will
assist both the Inaugural Committee
in directing visitors around the
campus and as assistants to the fac-
ulty marshals in preparing for the
procession, Even further student par-
ticipation is being planned.

Finally, the Inaugural Committee
hopes that the student body will par-
ticipate by attending the inaugural
ceremony.

Because of the tight parking situa-
tion around the University, however,
students are requested by Dr. Leon
Sensabaugh, chairman of the Inaugu-
rationa Committee, to refrain from

bringing cars to the campus on Thurs- |

day p.m. and Friday a a.m., +» Oct. 17-18.

*“Freshman of the Year,”

The IFC’s deferred rush proposal
was introduced for the first time last
night to the member of the fraterni-
ties. After lengthy debate it became
apparent that there was still much
work to be done on the proposal.
Early in the debate a motion was
passed which stated that the first
vote on the measure, which was
planned for last night, should be
postponed until next Monday to fa-
cilitate further discussion.

Mark Eaker introduced another
motion concerning discrimination in
the Lexington housing of girls. It
stated that the IFC should compile
a list of those boarding houses that
would be willing to take Negro
women, publish and advertise that
list in Lexington and at the surround-
ing girls’ schools, and urge that all
girls to patronize those houses on the
approved IFC list. This motion car-
ried with ease.

The IFC elected Joe Tompkins the
an award
usually given in the spring but which
had been omitted in the last two years
through oversight. Tompkins, a SPE
from Vinton, Virginia, was the fresh-
man Executive Committee representa-
tive as well as a member of Phi
Eta Sigma, the Glee Club, and the
Young Republicans.

Clark Carter, IFC president, re-
ported that the IFC’s Contact pro-
gram was beginning to take shape
and that the tentative topic was
“Power: Student, Foreign, Economic,
Scientific, and Black.” Several invita-
tions have been given to prominent
political figures, but they were hesi-
tant to make any commitments until
after the November election results.

The discussion over the 21 articles
of the deferred rush plan was rela-
tively aimless, but it did point out
the definite need for a thorough and
careful study of the plan. Carter
introduced the proposal saying to his
knowledge this was the best provision
the IFC could offer in light of the
intent of the faculty with maximum
fairness to all fraternities.

The provisions relating to the com-
plete outlawing of summer rush and
rush publications brought criticism
from several houses. They felt that
| summer rush would ideally serve as

 

'an orienting factor that would have
no ultimate influence on the final

| decisions of the freshman. Suporters

World-renowned pictures
will be shown this week
in the duPont art gallery

\ noted photographer's record of
the lust quarter century is being dis-
played in duPont Hall beginning this
afternoon. E. Howard Hammersley,
Jr., a photographer for the Roanoke
Times and World-News newspapers,
will be present at his exhibition from
4:30 to 6 p.m. this afternoon for a
reception.

His display, entitled “Twenty-five
Years of News Photography,” is be-
ing sponsored by the departments of
journalism and fine arts. Hammersley
has been a news photographer since
he was graduated from Roanoke Col-
lege in 1938. His photographs since
then have brought him a number of
national awards, and he has had his
photos in a number of national maga-
vines including Life, Time, and
Newsweek

In World War Il he served

(Continued on Page 4)

38

Three fraternities to receive funds

hy REEVE KELSEY

News Editor

the

appraised replacement value of the house pear year

imie the maintenance fund which would be paid to the

Three fraternities so far have taken advantage ol University at the same time the payments are made on
the University’s willingness to lend money for the the mortgage. If the payments are not made, the mort
renovation of existing facilities while a fourth has gage would be considered to be in default
obtained a loan under the program for new facilities fo control the maintenance fund, the University will
The initiative for obtaining the loans, tentatively ap make semi-annual inspections of each house to determine
proved by the trustees on May 18, 1968, now rests with the needs for maintenance work. The funds will be
the individual fraternity released to the house only when the University agrees

The amount of the loans

afte

estimates set forth in the survey by Mr
appraised replacement value it

year or BO percent of the

subject to the

broad that the

Ravenhorst last has the unilateral

 

erpenditure

 

The University also
power to spend money in the fund if

is warranted

felt that the condition of the house endangers the

/of the IFC's existing plan said they
feared “summer rush _ escalation”
where fraternities would be forced
to make heavy expenditures on sum-
mer rush to maintain a competitive
edge.

The article which prohibited con-
tact between freshmen and actives
during both Christmas and Thanks-
giving vacation drew a great deal of
criticism. . Many objected 1 to the | seem-

On Sunday, Oct. 13, McCormick
Library will open at noon rather than
at the usual three o'clock. This de-
parture from the regular schedule is
part of a program inaugurated by the
Student Library Committee to study
and evaluate current library hours.

The library will be open on Sun
day at noon, on a trial basis, from
October 13 through November 3, Al-
so during this period, the back door
to McCormick Library will be locked
in the evenings and on weekends

A member of the Student Library

 

ithe library during this time. In
i way, the committee hopes to get an

accurate picture of how many people |

use the library and at what times
The hours at which the library is open
will then be adjusted accordingly

The Student Library Commitice is

also making plans for Parents’ Week-|
be given for.

end. A reception will
parents on Friday, November 1, from
four until five: freshmen and their
parents are especially asked to attend
between four-thirty and five. The
library staff and members of the

of the house after initial renovations (including the Lniversity'’s investment | Student Library Committee will host
present mortgage), whichever is least These funds can be wed only for major maintenance | the affair. Invitations to the reception
The terms of the mortgage loans, if approved, in needs of the house and would specifically exclude such | will be included in the envelopes
clude a repayment period of 25 years under an interest items as furniture and breakage. Wf the cost of the | which parents receive upon register
rate of 4 percent, Each of the loans would be investi maintenance exceeds the amount already contributed to |
gated by the University and the Investment Committee ihe fund, the fraternity will be obligated to raise the On Friday, October 18, the library
of the Trustees as to the financial capacity of the indi additional funds i will not open until two. It is to be
vidual traternity to bear the additional cost of the From the provisions of the toan, it ia clear that the used that day as a robing area for
loan University will have sweeping powers over the physical the faculty, who will be attending
the major condition attached to these loans ia the plant of any f ity if it choses to use them These | President Huntley's inauguration
mandatory creation of an University sdministered provisions could very well be connected with the plan Since no classes are wheduled for
maintenance fund for each of the fraternities borrowing uivanced last vear byw the Univeristy to inspect under i that day Mr Maurice Leach. Li
Each fraternity would be required to pay 3} percent of graduate housing i brarian, feels that there will be no

 

 

Commitiee stationed at the main desk |
will keep a count of people entering |
this |

 

ingly ridiculous idea of denying a
freshman an automobile ride home
and forcing him to tarvel in another
manner even if the fraternity active
was his older brother,

Much of the discussion centered
around the contact provisions. Sec-
tion 1 of the measure states: “There
will be no contact between fraternity
men and prospective rushees except
when specified. Rushees may at no
time visit the lodgings of an upper-
classmen who is a fraternity member
with the exception of the dorm
counselors in the dorms.”

The consensus of the IFC quickly
became that this section should be
reworded positively to indicate when
contact would be legal. The co-op,
the student union building, the Hill,
and the athletic fields would all be
areas where no contact would be
unenforceable and ridiculous; there-
fore contact is permissable in these
areas,

The transition from the fraternity
smokers during the first semester to
the post-exam rush dates appeared to
be another rough spot and a more
concrete proposal will, it seems, have
to be written.

Dean Atwood stated during the
debate that the no contact during
weekends was clearly the decision of
the fraternities; the faculty was not
forcing them to make this decision,
and, in fact, he believed that to the

(Continued on Page 4)

WEL acquires
IBM computer
to aid research

In mid-November, the University’s
1620 IBM computer will be replaced
with a new 1130 IBM computer. The
change will greatly increase W&L’s
facilities for bookkeeping and scienti-
fic research, The 1620 computer is
considered to be in the second gen-
eration of computers while the 1130
is a third generation computer.

The basic difference between the
two computers is the ability of the

proposals ripped; vote next week?

News analysis

By REEVE KELSEY

Who is responsible for the social
life of the freshman class—the fra-
ternities or the University? This ques-
tion forms the underlying issue faced
by the IFC in their discussion of the
deferred rush proposal last night.
The IFC can not hedge this issue
in making a decision or the result
could very well be a completely un-
workable plan.

The existing proposal answers this
question emphatically—it is the Uni-
versity’s responsibility for the social
life of the freshmen until they pledge
a fraternity. They basically reason
that if they are deprived of about
$125 in revenue per man in their
pledge class for the first semester,
then they have no obligation or re-
sponsibility toward providing for the
social needs of the freshmen.

The supporters of the existing plan
feel that social contact on combo
weekends would lead to combo and
social “escalation” which could easily
result in intense pressure on the fra-
ternities to increase their social bud-
gets with the corresponding decreased
base of income during the first se-
mester.

(Continued on Page 4)

1130 to retain knowledge in a memory | _

bank. The old computer could merely
process given material, while the new
one will not only be able to process
but also recall stored material.

The replacement of the 1620 with
the 1130 will mean that the computer
programming classes will have to
learn to program the new computer,
after having spent several weeks learn-
ing to program the old one. Once
they have learned to program the
new computer, however, they will be
able to program any third generation
| computer.

Changes in library hours studied
by Student Library Committee

need for students to use the library
before two

Plans, as yet unspecified, are also
being made to give the Student

Library Committee some control over
the Friends of the Library, an organi
zation which raises extra funds to pur-
chase such items as rare books for
the library. In this way, it is hoped
that the Student Library Commitice
will have a greater interest in the
direction of McCormick Library

 

 

|
| Muamstration

James Q. Wilson

Dr. Wilson to speak about
crime in the streets Friday
in duPont Auditorium

Fhe dominant issue of crime will
be discussed Friday evening in a lec-
ture by Harvard professor James Q.
Wilson. His talk sponsored by the
Political Science and Sociology De-
partments will be at 8 p.m. in du-
Pont Auditorium.

Dr. Wilson, professor of govern
ment at Harvard, was formerly di-
rector of the MIT-Harvard Joint
Center for Urban Studies. He is the
author of “Negro Politics” and “The
Amateur Democrat” as well as edi
tor of “Urban Renewal: The Record
and the Controversy,” “The Modern
Fnigma,” and “City Politics and Pub
he Policy.”

His formal topic is “Crime in the
Streets: What to do Until the Doctor
Comes.” He his doctorate
from the University of Chicago and
is a member of the Science Advisory
Commitiee of the President's Com
mission of Law Enforcement and Ad
of Justice

received

W&L CALENDAR

Tuesday, October 8

 

4:30 p.m.--Opening of “Twenty-five Years of News Photog: iphy.” a retro
spective show featuring the work of E. Howard Hammersley. J)
sponsored by the Departments of Journalism and Communica
tons and of Fine Arts, Gallery, duPont Hall

5:00 pn.—Bielogy Seminar. Dr. §. A. Altmann. Yerkes Primate Center
Baboon Ecology.” Room 405, New Science Huilding

Wednesday, October 9
7 pm Newcomers Lasaena Supper (couples), Alumni Howse
Thursday, October 10

740) pm Aipha Epsilon Delta, the honorary pre-med fraternity ponsot
nm ofrentiation meeting for freshman pre-med major Room 5
New Science Building

B00 pam SHA sponsors Mr. Lawrence Speine who will speak on “Law
ind Order: Courts, Cops, Crime, Confession ind Crackpot
Alumni House

Friday, October 11

2:00 p.m.-—University Center Lecture. James Q. Wilson profs if n
ment, Marvard Universi € Finns nN the Sire¢ Whai to ck
Until the Dector Comes.” duPont Hal!

Saturday, Oct. 12
200 pm Football, WAL vs. Lafavette Wilson Field
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s ‘Twice-Weekly Newspaper

 

Abolish Saturday classes
but leave afternoons open

By ROBERT YEVICH
Editorial-PageEditor

Tuesday, October 8, 1968

—~-—-+- —

That the students and faculty of this university are in favor of a five-
day class week is unquestionable, However, the architecture of such a week
has become a matter of apparent controversy.

In the spring of last year, a poll conducted by The Tuesday Ring-tum
Phi indicated that 73 per cent of the students voting preferred a plan of
morning only Monday through Friday classes. In this same poll only 9
per cent of the students who voted and 45 per cent of the faculty who
voted showed a preference for afternoon classes.

In a recent poll of the faculty taken by the faculty committee appointed
: study a five-day week, only 35 per cent responded in favor of afternoon
classes.

In spite of the results of these polls, none of the five plans submitted

by the committee in their report to the faculty offers a schedule without
the drudgery of afternoon or Saturday classes.
“ Last year The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi presented a five-day class block
which, I believe, most adequately subscribes to the expressed desires of the
' majority of the members of the university community. This plan could be
aa implemented with much greater facility than any of the plans proposed
in the committee’s report.

Of the five plans offered in the report,
issue of abolishing Saturday classes. While the remaining plans present a
five-day week, they also call for afternoon classes.

The “Lynchburg” plan presented in the Ring-tum Phi last year features
no classes on Saturday or in the afternoon. Classes would meet for one
hour with a five minute break between them. The class day would begin at
8:00 a.m. and end at 1:20 p.m. The classes which meet now on a particular
day would still meet on the same day; that is, a regular day would be hours
A.C,E,G,I or B,D,F,H,J. The major alteration is that classes would meet

In deference to the freshmen;
notes on deferred rush

I know the past,
and thence will assay to glean a warning
for the future, so that man may profit

by his errors, and derive experience
from his folly.
—Shelley

 

Hila

Freshmen entering Washington and Lee in September of
next year will at best have a dreary first semester if some
reason is not written into the deferred rush regulations. It is
very pleasing that the proposals before the IFC offer contact
at all, but the extent falls far short of what is needed.

Granted, it would be unfair to some of the more removed
fraternity houses were rushees allowed to house-hop at will.
Granted the student union will be a wonderful place. But
that’s all we will grant.

Imagine spending Openings, Homecoming, and other
fall weekends in a crowded building where only beer—3.2 at

 

“te

Frank Parsons relaxes in his office. photo by Honig

two do not resolve the major

Parsons handles administrative
challeng es with expert’s touch

By LARRY HONIG

Editor-in-Chief

necessary for programs of this sort
in the future. Unfortunately, nothing

that—is allowed, where privacy is impossible, where only |

freshmen will congregate.

Perhaps some on the IFC would have the faculty imagine
—and witness next year—these things and others just as un-
delectable in the delightful hope that conventional rush will
be returned on a tarnished silver platter, garnished with

chagrin.

Careful consultation with faculty oracles confirms that this
will not be the case. Whether the IFC or the faculty must
revise deferred rush is at this point up to the IFC. May we
not have to derive experience from folly.

Kudos to the EC ..

. . « for having increased

jurisdiction to extend to student charge accounts in Lexing-
ton. We have for too long felt the credit squeeze in May
which results, quite understandably, as merchants become wor-
ried about collecting their receivables over the summer. Wash-
ington and Lee students enjoy a liberal credit standing in the
city, one which can only be enhanced by the Executive Com-

mittee’s recent action.

* Parsons assumed the post of Di-

Self-styled “jack of all trades”
Frank Parsons may be that, but
“master of none” is hardly descrip-
tive. After 15 years at Washington
and Lee, Pasons enjoys a top slot in
the administrative bureaucracy of this
University.

Presently assistant to the president,
the 40-year-old W&L graduate pre-
viously served as Director of Uni-
versity Development—in which ca-
pacity he has provided a major
impetus to bring physical planning
up to the needs of the school.

e
6.)

rector of Publicity in September of
1954. In addition to his regular duties,
he produced two major filmstrips for
Washington and Lee, one for pro-
spective applicants and another for
development fund raising.

When Fred C. Cole became presi-
dent in 1959, he asked Parsons to
serve as special assistant to him. For
the first few years in these two ca-
pacities Parsons did development

the Cold Check Committee’s

 

 

Mary Baldwin critic rips

flick without
By POLLY ROULHAC

News Editor, Mary Baldwin's
“Campus Comments “

Following the lead of successes
such as “Blow-Up,” “A Man and a
Woman” and “The Graduate,” movie-
makers are using the camera to tell
the story.

Many “photographic essays” which
formerly would have been shown in
“art” theaters are now being turned
out for general public consumption.

But often the public is being “had,”
as in the case of “Elvira Madigan”
in which brilliant photography is not
enough to sell the show, This addition
to the film world fails to live up to
its predecessors in the art of cinema.

“Elvira Madigan” exhibits neither
the controversial “pornography” and
questionable symbolism of “Blow-Up”
nor the appeal of “The Graduate”
to the younger generation and its
rebellion against the hypocrisy of The
Establishment.

Lacking the sincerity and honesty
of love which sustained the beauty
of “A Man and a Woman,” the film
has nothing in originality to recom-
mend itself,

Photography is its only ploy. But

The Ring-tum Phi—Tuesday

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesdays and Fridays during the college

 

work. concentrating on foundations

was implemented until after the Self-
Study report of 1964-1966.

Parsons became acquainted with
the development problem as Secretary
of the Self-Study Committee: the
Visiting Committee, cognizant of the
need for long-range coordination and
planning, made firm recommendations
in this regard.

Acting on this advice in the fall
of 1966, President Cole created the
Office of University Development
and named Frank Parsons director.
It was by no means a sudden transi-
tion as Parsons continued for a time
in his old capacities.

It was not long afterwards, though,
that the pieces of a six-year dormant
office had to be picked up and put
together. While struggling to over-
come inexperience in designing a
blueprint, Parsons found himself be-
tween Scylla and Charybdis after
Cole's resignation and during the sub-
sequent period prior to the selection
of a new president.

Direction was not long in coming.
Since February of 1968 when Robert
Huntley was appointed president, the
Office of University Development has

 

and individuals. Washington and Lee
was at that time involved in the pro-|
gram which resulted in the construc- |
tion of New Science Buuilding and
the renovations of Howe and Reid|
Halls.

The relative difficulty with which
this program was completed made it

‘pornography’

beautiful scenery becomes tiresome
when the parts which make a dra- apparent that a coordinated, large-
matic whole are not integrated. scale development effort would be

Granted, the movie has one strike —---— _

| against it, being a Danish film with

subtitles; but the problem actually
lies in areas crucial to the effect of
any motion picture. |

If simplicity of plot may some-
times be a virtue, it is a marked
failing of “Elvira Madigan.” Though
the film abounds with beautiful pic-
tures, its plot is sadly deficient.

The action is a choppy pantomime
played by unskilled amateurs. The
characters are bland, doll-like crea-
tures who exist in a dream world
void of any stormy human emotions.

The lovers fail to come across as
individuals with any will save that
of a final, hopeless resignation to
end it all.

The use of natural sounds, such as
the sharp chirp of crickets, poses an
unsuccessful contrast to the amorph-

 

By DAVID FIELD
Critic

When I was young, I used to sit
on the slope outside the village and
watch the sun go down, and I
used to think: if only I could find
the place where it sinks to rest

ous, ae nae of the for the night, I'd find the
2 ee lausible,| Of Mle, like the beginning of a
© chacters seem implausible, river. I f to wonder what it

sound offers no support to the ro-
mantic theme and the eye is asked to
believe too much. I say go see
another movie.

could be like. Perhaps an island,
a strange place of white sand, where
the people never died. Never grew
old, or felt pain, and never died,
Francisco Pizarro
(The Royal Hunt of the Sun)

 

In his play “the Reyal Hunt of
the Sun” Peter Shaffer attempts to

better athletic and library facilities

initiated massive planning in the area
of Washington and Lee's physical
needs.

Included in a Master Plan of
imminent priorities are the needs for

and solutions to the problems posed
at present by Newcomb and Tucker
Halls. Permeating most of these con-

 

one week on MWF and the following week on TT.

The transition to this plan would entail few complications as it is al-
most identical to our current class block system.

Most students object to the “Lynchburg” plan because they would have
to get out of bed a half hour earlier. However, the three alternative plans
which the faculty is likely to review in greatest detail schedule classes to
begin at either 8:00 or 8:15 a.m. and recall that those plans offer the added
attraction of afternoon classes. One of those plans, the University of Vir-
ginia plan, requires seventy-five minute class periods on Tuesday and

Thursday.

While the “Lynchburg” plan certainly has its deficiencies, I feel that
it offers the solution best suited to Washington and Lee. There will be no
increased conflict in classroom space. There will be no Saturday or after-
noon classes. Classes will only be ten minutes longer than they are now.
I feel that the faculty should bear these considerations in mind when the

issue is put to a vote.

 

   

LETTER

Editor, The Ring-tum Phi:

“The Next Four Years Are Yours,
Baby; Forget The Rules.” That's how
the headlines of the lead article read
in the orientation issue of the BU
News, the irreverent but much read
weekly published on the Boston Uni-
versity campus by students without
any sort of administration control.

Alan Seltzer is a student at BU
and he’s made it big. Now he is the
president of the Liberal Arts college.
But he still feels like signing his
exam papers with his social security
number because that is how the Bos-
ton University computer has been
addressing him for the last four
years,

 

(Continued on Page 4)

Current drama in review

 

Faith found by murder
in royal hunt for God

| demeanor and insight almost lead the ;
Spaniard to a form of faith.

Pizarro cannot utilize philosophical |
crutches; he says: “Men cannot just
stand as men in this world. It's too
big for them and they grow scared.
So they build themselves shelters
against the bigness, do you see? They |

 

Sail

call the shelters Court, Army, Church.
They're useful against loneliness...
but they're not true, They're not
Ms

Unable to susiain illusion, Pizarro
doesn't possess the moral fortitude to
face the burden of ultimate useless-

(Continued on Page 4)

 

By SNHEDE HENBERG
Curriculum Committee Chairman

The following brief article is offer-
ed as a broad statement of the Student |

 

Curriculum Committee invites
suggestions on course revision

faculty reaction, not so much to
specific proposals but the fact that
someone was offering proposals at all.
Sometimes, too, a criticism of one

| Siggestion seemed to lead to a dis-

TO THE €

(TOR

If an IBM machine were to call
you 158-38-5485 in front of even
your closest friends, don’t you think
you might begin to feel somewhat
alienated from the institution that the
ole IBM represents?

Well that’s where it's at on the
big university campuses like Boston
University. The faculty teaches to
numbers, gives numbers for grades,
just so they can cash the numbers
on their paychecks,

Now maybe some of you Profes-
sors who are reading this article—
yes, it is true that the WAL faculty
has some R-t P carrying members—
will say that | am being unfair, And
you are right. But can't you see how
students at institutionalized learning
factories could get such an impres-
sion? C’mon now, put yourself in the
other guys’ sandals . . .

An independent commission that
was formed to investigate the dis-
turbances on the Columbia University
campus last spring came to very
similar conclusions about the nature
of student unrest. As reported by the
N. Y. Times, Sunday, Oct. 6, 1968:
The student rebellion at Columbia
University gained ‘wide and deep
support’ largely because of a ‘deep-
seated and relatively unfocused dis-
satisfaction with Columbia life.’. ..

So what does all this mean for
Washington and Lee University, a
small men’s school nestled-in-the-foot-
hills-of-the-Blue - Ridge - Mountains?
Certainly it is true that the problems
of big universities like Columbia and
Boston are not entirely duplicated
on this campus. Most students are
not really concerned with the plight
of the Black American: there is a
hawkish air to the foreign policy
opinions held by students; the dis-
tance between students and faculty is
nicely bridged: Deans are available to
students even if Mr. Atwood cannot
be coaxed into a handball match with
an undergrad .. .

The University should exist to ful-
fill a function, The University should

 

 

: regard for all points presented. one anity
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee | bring the world of the early sixteenth | Curriculum Committee's standing as/ Mm Pp attempt to enhance the humanity of

 

 

“e fore i mly w asi “ome j . o
University, The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450 cemiury alive through a spectacle of |! see it. Therefore, it should not be | a. dees i po Be —— -_ all who come into contact with it, It
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office, the sights and sounds of ancient| taken to assert any irrevocable Con-| r . a pc ~ Y come | htean ee eurpene of institutions of
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Peru. The anguish of the conquering | Clusions but rather should be seen to) Where Near Deing accepted. Yet some! higher learning to merely turn out

Subscription rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester,

LARRY HONIG

Editor-in-Chief

Managing Editor
News Editor = |
Editorial-Page Editor
Sports Editor

Associate News-Editors

e

Spaniards’ leader, Francisco Pizarro,
typifies the emotional struggle of a
man without faith and his confronta- |
tion with the meaningless and help-|
less aspects of life and death

The play is dominated by three
men: Pizarro, the Spanish conqueror
intent on draining Peru of her gold
supply: De Nizza, a Roman Catholic |
priest who fervently desires to replace |
the natives’ gold with an ardent
faith in God; and Atahuallpa, son
of the sun, god of the Incas and!
object of the royal hunt

GLENN MOORE

Business Manger

Reed Byrum

Reeve Kelsey

Robert Yevich

> «+ « 2 Oe

Andy White, Cal Whitehurst

 

every

enlarge upon a substantially reflective | faculty members seemed to discount
viewpoint j these ideas almost immediately. Ob-
viously cutting off dialogue in its
Hopefully the work done last year | initial stage will effectively kill re
by both the faculty and student cur- | form
riculum committees will this year re
ceive serious consideration, It is im
perative that some action be taken by
the time the new catalogue goes to
press in order to have certain im-
provements effective for entering
freshmen, 1969-70, 1 personally wish
to urge all faculty members and stu-
denis to seriously consider each and
proposal that might be sug-

Therefore, 1 challenge anyone to
improve upon the Curriculum Com
mittee’s suggestions——most of which
will be presented in the Ring-tum Phi
during the first semester. It is only
through rejection and substitution that
ideas of some merit take an enorm
ous sep toward becoming effective.
workable programs

I sincerely hope that short of pro-|

accountants or even pre-med candi-
dates. These are merely means to an
end. The end is that man should
be helped along the route of be-
coming a meaningful, relevant part
of the society that he will exist in
for seventy-odd years

In almost every one of the WAl
classrooms professors try to make this
happen. Some teachers are more stc-
cessful than others; and there are
some who won't even acknowledge
this as an objective. The hang up to
success does not lie with the faculty
or the administration on this campus

a 7 . _ : . . feasted | ested from any segment of universit i
Associate Editorial-Page Editor ' ’ Steve Wittmann _ The jaded ae tgreunly defeated | Oe irs e Yl voking personal enmity, certain of | The clearcut failure lies with the stu
Critics . David Field, John Yow eatin “ ‘ ——— in the , ws the Curriculum Committee's ideas | dents
s . ulliliment o HS Military mission: | Aho many areas there sem to rove suggestive enough to lead in th But there won't be unrest on the
om ie, Walt Jackson : pr g a ¢ ¢
Reporters Pe i Gillesp M of os 4 however, De Nizza, with nis own) a hazy consensus that something direction of effective debate and, Washington and Lee campus, And so
Tom Rowe, ac oodwar | saving faith, intensifies Pizarro’s | ought to be done. Last year | made eventually. needed reform My own | there are no student revolts or head-
Cartoonists = ; : David Ingold, John White — rag ae S| several suggestions in a Ring-tum Phi study of the current curriculum shows | lines that tell us to forget the rules
T : ; adie {© penetrate beneat izarro’s| article toward the end of the year./it, in my o imion, to be solid and| The WAL man accepts too ly what
f Bill Foster . ii y Opinion, sold aft € aun accepts too easily
Tuesday Photography I ditor l trappings, seeing a helpless old man! To avy disappointment | found a reasonably substantial—but by na he is told: he accepts because of tradi-

Photographers

Bruce Meyers, Dave Waelder |

devoid of hope, and the young king's |

certain amount of totally negative! means above improvement

 

i

(Continued on Page 4)

 

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

ws

 

Upper Left: A weary rugger rests during a pause. Upper Right; Practicing
the basics; kicking. Bottom: Celebrating a successful scrum, ruggers drink
beer out of the trophy. Center: Players jump for the ball to begin the scrum,

Photos by Foster

Colonels outrank Generals
as defense meets its match

Fine defensive line play by the
opposition, Centre College's home-
coming, and numerous injuries, all
added up to the Washington and Lee
football team’s third loss in as many
outings. Quick scores in the first and
third quarters gave Centre the vic-
tory in a fine defensive battle.

Receiving the opening kick-off on
their own sixteen, the Colonels
launched the only solid drive of the
day. They moved the ball all the
way down to the W&L four before
the Generals finally dug in and held.
On fourth down, Jay Van Arsdale
kicked a 21 yard field goal from the
eleven to give the home team a 3-0
lead.

From that time on, the game turn-
ed into a stalemate. The Big Blue
took the kickoff deep in their own
territory and were unable to move
it. The punt to Centre gave the
Colonels fine field position but they
too, were unable to pick up any yard-
age. That was the course of the whole
game.

From time to time the offensive
units would break out of their leth-
argy by doing something drastically
wrong instead of just badly. As the
first quarter was coming to an end,

oat

eater

‘Car Buffs do

English Leather

ir

wo

LOTION

 

English Leather,

For men who want to be where o
action is. Very racy Very
line. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION =

$2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the

plete array of ENGLISH
_ Men's toiletries.

A FROOUCT OF mint COMM ANT, ie nN, Ae

   
 

 

ito flanker

Centre had possession of the football
in W&L territory. Quarterback Paul
Etheridge faded back and threw a
pass right into the arms of freshman
defensive back, Dave Brooks of W&L,
on the 23. On the very first play
from scrimmage though, Fullback
Dick Kinney of the Generals fumbl-
ed, and the Colonels took over on
the W&L 17. Playing solid defense,
however, the Blue held on their own
ten, and with fourth and three Centre
elected to go for the first down. A

run netted two yards and W&L re-
gained the ball on the eight.
The Generals only made it into

Centre territory twice. It almost paid
the first time, though. Taking the ball
from their own 25, the Blue marched
the ball down to the Colonel's 26 be-
fore their attack bogged down with
about five minutes remaining in the
second quarter. Responsible for the
drive were Dick Kinney’s 25 yard
run, and two passes from Jack Baizley
to Buck Cunningham.

The second half was equally as
hard fought as the first, as the Gen-
erals were unable to keep the ball
out of their own territory due to
poor punting and offense. Yet, the
defense continued to hold off the op-

position, and a 3-0 game was be-
ginning to appear likely. With four
and a half minutes left in the third

quarter, Centre had the ball on the
WAL 40. Quarterback Etheridge went
back to pass, but he was chased out
of his pocket by defensive tackle Stan
Lisle, who'd some crashing through
Centre's forward wall. Scrambling,
Etheridge threw a thirty yard pass
Doug Eaton on the ten

| Eaton scampered into the end zone

| untouched

The extra point by Van

| Arsdale concluded the scoring, giv
jing the Colonels a 10-0 win
The biggest disappoiniment of the

| forward wall

day had to be the General's offensive
Time and again, quart

| erbacks Jack Baizley and Chuck Kuhn

| sittalions.,

were dropped for big losses in critical
WAL runners were given
poor blocking, and punter Ken Carter
was hammered unmercifully

 

CENTRAL LUNCH
TRY OUR FAMOUS
Swiss Burgers
Serving Food and Beverages

| A Wide Variety of Domestic
| wand Imported Beer Served
and Delivered

TELEPHONE 463.286

 

 

 

 

 

FOR YOUR EXTRA _ CE OF FURNITURE

Ses. & Pole

 

 

 

/ Sounding off ...

By ROY CARLTON
Sports Editor

A quick quiz: What W&L athletic
team plays the most major colleges?
Is it the wrestling team, which meets
the likes of UNC, West Virginia, NC
State and William and Mary? Or is
it the lacrosse team with Virginia,
Duke, Notre Dame, and Carolina on
its schedule? Any other suggestions?
They're all probably wrong. It’s the
Big Blue rugby team which plays an
almost completely major college
schedule.

Despite financial difficulties, coach-
ing deficiencies, student apathy, and
the lack of a suitable playing field,
rugby is here to stay at W&L. This
year’s squad is more active than ever,
too. The fall schedule includes match-
ups with U. Va., Richmond, Duke,
and Maryland. In the spring, there
will even be a Washington and Lee
invitational tournament.

The team is only two years old,
but in that time it has stirred up so
much controversy that the admini-
stration, athletic department, IFC, and
Executive Committee have all had
something to say about the fledging
sport. About the only group on
campus that has ignored the team
is the student body.

The problem is that the team has
no official sanction from the Univer-
sity itself. This is as the team would
have it, however. All the teams W&L
competes with are members of the
Eastern Intercollegiate Rugby Union.
The union’s rules specifically forbid
play with any varsity teams.

Hence, the Generals rugby club
prefers its non-varsity status. Yet the
team has been completely shunned
by the administration, a fact which
I find regrettable. Other clubs get
direct subsidies from their universi-
ties, but at W&L rugby is orphaned.
Princeton annually gives $6,000 to
support her team.

Fortunately, the first steps toward
recognition were taken last year when
the Executive Committee voted the
club $300 toward this year’s expenses.
That amount will just barely cover
the expense of necessary new uni-
forms. This year the athletic depart-
ment has found itself operating in the
red for the first time, so it is
logical that they cannot offer aid to
the club at present.

But this is the first occasion the

Rugby deserves more support

 

department has had this difficulty in

 

some time, and it is only fair to say
that the department could in the
future plan some aid for the team.
As of now, the individual players
must drive to their away games in
their own cars. Not only is_ that
troublesome, but it precludes any
games much further than a hundred
miles.

There is one thing the athletic de-
partment could do for the club,
though. Currently ,the club is forced
to play all its home games (and most
games are scheduled at home) on the
upper intramural field. While this is
a fine practice area, it is hardly the
safest for a game like rugby, which is
about as rough as it can possibly be.
For the enjoyment of the game by
fans and players alike, it would be
much better to allow the club to
play on Wilson Field.

Last year the club negotiated with
the department to play one of its
games there, so long as it didn’t rain.
The day of the game it rained. Be-
cause rugby isn’t any more harmful
to the turf than lacrosse or football,
which are presently played on Wilson
Field, there is no reason why that
negotiation couldn't be extended to
the club full-time this year.

Such a privilege would be of great
benefit to the student body. Scheduled
for the spring, tentatively Spring’s
Weekend, is the first annual Washing-
ton and Lee Invitational Rugby
Tournament. Scheduled to participate
are Duke, Richmond, W&L, and
either Villanova, Vanderbilt, or Tufts.
What other sport at this school can
boast an event with competition like
that?

It's an authentic team, too, not just
a collection of individuals who play

 

(Continued on Page 4)

 

Two time All-State soccer goalie, Thom Mitchell, hauls in a shot for another

save in practice.

Photo by Foster

Fechnay and Mitchell tell

about their soccer careers

By CARTER REDD

This year marks the last soccer
season for the two varsity standouts
and co-captains, Thom Mitchell and
Scott Fechnay. Fechnay has been a
letterman for four years; Mitchell
for three.

Mitchell, an American History ma-
jor, lives in Middletown, N.Y., where
he began his soccer career in the
fifth grade. He admits to being a

 

Harriers run to victory over three

opponents; Zeliff takes first place

WAL cross-country hopes soared
last Friday as the General harriers
took first place in a quadruple meet,
boosting their record to 4-0. Fine
running by all members of the team
was responsible.

In the meet, Washington and Lee
took first place with 33 points; Som-
erset Community College was second
with 41. Centre College and Transyl-
vania College finished third and fourth

 

Disciplinary problems and injuries
continued to plague the Washington |
and Lee soccer team as the Generals |
fell to Randolph-Macon, 4-2, on
Friday in Ashland. Although Coach |
Lyles felt that the team had done
better than was to be expected, he
was obviously annoyed and disap-
pointed that there was so little to)
expect.

“This was not a total ball club|
that faced Randolph-Macon, Three-|
fourths of our individual players were |
playing as individuals. R-MC played |
as a team, and it showed up in their |
fine passing. We did have some in-
juries, and so we have not been
able to practice as a team.” He stated
that the Generals should start win-
ning afler more practices were held |
with the full team in atendance.

In the game Randolph-Macon car-
ried a 2-0 lead into the third quarter
before John Yow scored for WAL
with an assist from Scott Fechnay.
R-MC scored again, but WAL nar-
rowed the gap to 3-2 in the final

 

quarter on Fechnay'’s penatly kick.
R-MC then wrapped up the game
with a final tally,

 

 

SPORTSMAN CLUB

5010 WILLIAMSON ROAD
ROANOKE, VA,
Available for
Private Parties

ACCOMADATES 200
366-7978

 

 

 

Yellow Jackets outplay booters
to hand Generals second defeat

The

Coach Lyles commended fullbacks
Brian Price, Mark Sayers, and Fred
Fletcher for their outstanding efforts.
He also had praise for Carl Hyatt,
who played most of the game with a
knee injury. Said the coach, “I wish
I had 100 more like him.” Goalie
Thom Mitchell recorded 25 saves for
WAL, but the story of the game was
| that R-MC took 28 shots to the Gen-
erals’ 12.

The JV soccer team scored its first
victory of the season over Massanut-
ten on Saturday. The team incorpo-
| rated good defense and balanced scor-
ing into the 4-1 decision. Sandy Bay-
less paced the jayvees by scoring two
penalty kicks. The other goals were
scored by David Manson and Carter |
Redd.

 

ie ls le ls ls lle ln le Ul ls sts sl si sl le sl li sy ss ily lt
TTT TTT eee eee eee

4
IDEAL
Barber Shop
:

4

 

QUICK SERVICE

AitArtrAtrh bbb hhh hh hb hed
i

i le le le A ll ll
PSS SSS ST SSS
PSC er TT SSeS

 

&
—

 

Shirt Service... .
As You Like It |

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

 

University Cleaners

 

 

The Country Ritchen
Brendes, Cakes, Pastries
PHONE 463-5691

S-inch Decorated Cake $3.00 = ||
B-inch Just leed $2.00

 

 

 

| Washington and Lee University |
i Bookstore

| “Youth thinks intelligence a good substitute for
experience, and his elders think experience a

substitute for intelligence.”

—Bryson

respectively with totals of 46 and
120 points.

All of the Generals’ runner finished
well ahead of most of the field. Senior

 

Harry Zeliff continued to show his
talents by finishing first for the sec-)
ond time in a week. He won the)
meet on Friday with a time of 15:55
for the three mile course. Sewing
it up for the Blue were Pearcy in|
sixth, Paul Wilber in seventh, fresh-|
man Steve Darsie in eighth, and Bill |
Arvin in eleventh.

his appears to be the finest W&L
cross-country team im some years.
Primarily responsible for the improve-
ment so far has been the rapid
emergence of Zeliff as a premier run-
ner and the recovery of Pearcy from
last year’s injury. If Darsie, who is
used to running a two-mile course,
can adjust to the collegiate four-
mile, then Coach Miller should be
able to enjoy a very pleasant fall

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

1 Hour Dry Cleaning
Complete Shirt Service

 

 

he played football, track,

“hotdog,” and claims to wear a dif-
ferent uniform to each game for the
few soccer fans who find the energy
to make the trip up to the soccer
field.

In spite of his regret that there
is a lack of spirit at W&L, he likes
being able to play because he enjoys
the game instead of being forced to
play.

Although the goalie position
probably the roughest in soccer, he
prefers it to football because “foot-
ball is too rough and soccer requires
more finesse.” He says he would like
to be a professional athlete, but con-
siders his chances slight, even though
he has been scouted by major league
baseball teams and has been picked
for the all-state soccer team for two
years. At present, he is thinking of
joining the peace corps.

The other soccer captain, Scott
Fechnay, started playing soccer at age
3144 when his family moved to Eng-
land, When he returned to America
his soccer career was interrupted be-
cause his high school did not have
a soccer team. To offset this deficiency

and tennis.

As a member of the All-South
team, Scott has developed a friendly
rivalry with his brother.

is

 

Hill’s Barber Shop
WE AIM TO PLEASE
Below the Lyric

 

 

The
THUNDERBIRD
CLUB
ROANOKE, VA,
Doors Open 8:30
Available for Private Parties
College Students Welcome

ONE MILE FROM
HOLLINS COLLEGE

 

 

 

PRESSES SESE ESET SESE EEE ESOS SE SESESESEEE ESE TESS

RABE OIL CO.

750 S. Main Street
Tire Headquaters for W@L

SPECIAL THIS WEEK

WHITEWALL

700x13

plus tax and old tire

WHITE

750x14

plus tax and old tire

4-ply Nylon Tires

$+ooe

PRESSES ESSE SESE ESSE SESE SESS OF5 555555555 555505

362-3624
$15.95
WALL
$17.95
:
 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Field’s drama review

(Continued from Page 2)

ness: “Fame is long. Death is longer
...Does anyone ever die for any-
thing? I thought so once. Life was
fierce with feeling. It was all hope...
Swords shone and armour sang, and
cheese bit you, and kissing burned
and Death—ah, death was going to
make an exception in my case.

“I couldn’t believe I was ever going
to die. But once you know it—really
know it—it’s all over. You know
you've been cheated, and nothing's
the same again.”

To rescue himself from this dis-
order, De Nizza has found his own
answer, which he feels must be im-
parted to the natives and Pizarro:
“Love is the only door from the
prison of ourselves. It is the eager-
ness of God to enter that prison, to
take on pain, and imagine lust, so
that the torn soldier, or the spent
lecher, can call out in his defeat: “You
know this too, so help me fro mit.’”

But Pizarro finds love and God
alien to his being. The closest he
comes to faith is his relationship with |
Atahuallpa; amazed by the god-like
man who firmly believes himself to
be the son of the sun, Pizarro says: |
“It's the only way to give life mean- |
ing! To blast out of time and live
forever, us, in our own persons. This
is the law: die in despair or be a
God yourself! Look at him:
always so calm as if the teeth of
life never bit him ... or the teeth
of death. What if it was really
true... that I've gone God-hunting
and caught one.”

De Nizza tries to persuade Pizzaro
to eliminate the sun-king who has
created a society of perfect stability
and order at the expense of all free-
dom: “What is this pain in you that
month after month makes you hurl
yourself against the cage of time?

“... This is God, driving you to
accept divine eternity. Take it, Gen-

 

 

COX MOORE

sassinated,

Sweaters by

at

Alvin-Dennis

Virginia vs. Duke

eral: not this pathetic copy of
eternity the Incas have tried to make
on earth, Peru is a sepulchre of the
soul. For the sake of the free spirit
in each of us it must be destroyed.”

Atahuallpa also calls for his own
murder, believing his resurrection will
give Pizarro hope: “You will die
soon and you do not believe in your
God. That is why you tremble and
keep no word. Believe in me. 1 will
give you a word and fill you with
joy. For you I will do a great thing.
I will swallow death and spit it out
of me.”

After murdering Atahuallpa_ in
hopes of discovering God, the fact
that Pizarro had gropingly found a
sort of faith and the shattering im-
pact of its destruction when he speaks
to the dead hulk becomes apparent:
“God's just a name on your nail;
and naming begins cries and cruel-
ties.

“But to live without hope of after,
and make whatever God there is, oh,
that’s some immortal business surely
... I'm tired. Where are you? You're
I'd warm you if I could,
no warming now, not

so cold,
But there's
ever now.
“I'm colding too. There’s a snow
of death falling all round us. You
can almost see it. It's over lad, I'm
coming after you. There's nothing but
peace to come. We'll be put into the
same earth, father and son in our)
own land. And that sun will roam |
uncaught over his empty pasture.” |
Perhaps from his spiritual debris has |
arisen something greater than faith. |

Photo display here

(Continued from Page 1)

 

LETTERS TQ THE EDITOR

(Continued from Page 2)

tion; he accepts because it is a rule.

The next time any one of you
students has doubts about an archaic
fraternity system that demands con-
formity yet forces changes on little
old ladies who rent rooms to girls,
the next time ROTC authoritarianism
seems to be in contradiction with a
political science class in international
relations where you are told to ques-
tion all conclusions, will you please
stand up and say, “What the hell is|
going on?”...

 

At W&L the professors are asking |
the questions. Dean Atwood is the}
one who fights for changes in campus |
life, not the students. And yet here |
we have channels for students to|
voice demands for change; they)
fought for such channels at Columbia, |
Here we have the professors that)
could answer questions about the|
effectiveness of grades,

If people continue to just exist on
this campus, without any attempt to
justify that existence or define the
purpose of that existence, Washing-
ton and Lee University doesn’t exist.
And unless the University clearly de-
fines its function and makes sure that
function is relevant, then it deserves
to die, it deserves to be destroyed.

s/Jack Horowitz, '69

Heated discussion in IFC
(Continued from Page 1)

best of his knowledge the faculty
would accept any proposal submitted
by the IFC, within reason.

The plan specifically forbids the
fraternities from taking freshmen |
down the road but made mention)

 

Notices of interest

YOUNG DEMOCRATS
Andrew P. Miller, Abingdon lawyer
and candidate for Attorney General
of Virginia, will speak Thursday night
at the opening campaign rally of the
Young Democrats.

CALYX BUSINESS STAFF

A meeting of the staff will be
held tonight at 7 in the Calyx office
in the Dutch Inn. Attendance is

| mandatory,

RUGBY CLUB

There will be a meeting of the
Rugby Club tomorrow at 8 p.m. in
the East Room on the third floor of
the Law School.

PEP RALLY

A pep rally is scheduled for Fri-
day, October 18, at 6:45 p.m. in
preparation for the Homecoming
game against Hampden-Sydney. Free
beer and free prizes will be given
by the Assimilation Committee
through E.C. at the Red Square rally.

 

Who is responsible?

(Continued from Page 1)

Many members of the IFC ques-
tioned this decision feeling that the
University did not have the facilities
to provide the needed social outlets

'for the freshmen, and that for the

fraternities to ignore these needs
would be patently intolerable. They
questioned the summer no contact
provisions on the grounds that this
deprived the freshman of an invalu-
able aid in assimilation into the Uni-
versity community.

The faculty should pay close at-

‘of giving a freshman’s date a ride! tention to the ensuing debate, and if

months in England, Africa, Italy, and | to and from Lexington. It was agreed | the IFC choses the existing drafted
Southern Europe. He took the fam-| that this should also be forbidden | proposal or any close variation of it,
ous photograph of Mussolini's body | if the present spirit of no social con-| the members of the faculty and ad-
after the Itlalian dictator was as-| tact between freshmen and the fra-| ministration should be prepared to

LORD JEFF

 

Telephone
Duck Pins, Ten Pins

Civic Bowling Center

14 EAST NELSON

9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. and 6:00 pan, Until—Monday-Saturday
W@L Intramural and Phys. Ed. Center
Mississippi vs. Georgia

STREET
463-4033

and Slot Car Racing

 

“Farah” Slacks

Top Quality Clothes at Prices

you can afford

Efeqgelt

Main Street
Purdue vs. Ohio State

“Arrow Shirts”

 

to be

SHOP BRAND NAMES

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons, Inc.

Sweaters by Puritan

Shirts by Manhattan
OPPOSITE RB. E. LER HOTEL

Indiana vs. lowa

sure

 

 

Adair-Hutton

OF LEXINGTON, VA,

"Because We Care”

 

 

© Open Daily 9:30 to
® Phone 463-4721

Kansas vs.

® 3 Easy Ways to Shop: Cash - Charge - Layaway

5:30 Except Fri, 8:50

Nebraska

 

| ternities was to be maintained.

7: ow CHE

face their new-found responsibility.

Weekly Football Contest

SOOOOSESESEESEEESSESHSEEESSSOEEESESSSESESHSSSSOHHHHEHHHESESSESEESEEEHEEESSEHSOESEEHESESEOSESESSOEESESEEEEESSEEEEEEESESEHEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESESEEEEEESEEES

-WODY=

eat rst

VROLET

”

 

(ALEL

YO

Oklahoma vs. Texas

 

PSYCHOLOGY EXPERIMENTS

Interested? Call Roddy Roediger at
the Sigma Nu house (463-6494) or
Mike Stevens within a week.

CHOIR DIRECTION

A church choir director is needed
for an adult choir in Buena Vista.
Terms are negotiable. Call 261-8585
or 261-7616.

DANCE BOARD

There will be a meeting tonight of
the Dance Board Advisory Council
at 7 p.m. in Evans Dining Hall. Those
who cannot attend please contact Bob
Trout at Phi Delta Theta.

 

Byrum lashes IFC
(Continued from Page 1)

wants the incoming freshmen to speak
only to those of their own class, re-
main relative eunochs during the first
semester, and, consequently, to spend
Openings sitting with their dates in
the Student Union until it closes at
11:00.

The proposal advocates the total
deleting of seventy percent of the
undergraduate student body, along
with twenty-five percent of the city
of Lexington, except during certain
sacred hours of the night, when God
descends upon our city and makes a
minimal amount of small talk during
rush dates legal.

I only caution the IFC to gaze
upon this plan with greatest of ap-
prehension, for indeed a plan such
as this will only increase the ques-
tionable right of the faculty to govern
deferred rush; an irresponsible pro-
posal such as this will only be
judged at its true worth, and thus
the faculty will gain the immediate
Opportunity to impose its will and
whim in formulating its own, and
probably better, program of deferred
rush,

 

 

Sports editor
wants interest

(Continued from Page 3)

a game every Sunday. Practices are
held daily at 4:30 on the upper intra-
mural field. So far, the response has
been excellent. There are now thirty-
five men out for the squad, enough
to form A and B teams of fifteen
each with ease. Because of this, the
ruggers will be able to play two games
at once with every team on_ their
schedule.

Rugby is the kind of sport that
would appeal to the W&L student,
After every game, there is a tradi-
tional keg party for the players and
their dates. The kegs are financed by
the $10 social dues paid by the mem-
bers of the club at the beginning of
the year. That in itself ought to start
a flood of new members.

Oct. 13—Virginia, home.

Oct. 20—Richmond, home.

Oct. 27—George Mason, home.

Nov. 3—Duke, away.

Nov, 9—Maryland, home.

Nov, 16—Lynchburg, away.

 

The Frank Parsons’ story
(Continued from Page 2)

siderations is the view toward space
requirements—not only in connection
with the structures themselves but also
in the area of land requirements.

Some major goals facing Parsons
are the re-establishment of former
contacts, the initiation of new ones
(individuals as well as foundations),
and the realization of a finite yet
flexible development philosophy.

Despite his new role, Parsons will
continue to interact with the new di-
rector, Farris Hotchkiss, in placing
planning far enough ahead of fund-
raising so that progress is predictable
and steady.

Sponsored by the

Business Firms on this page

Slacks by
Corbin

 

Callege Tain Seo Hathaway
Shop

Oregon vs. Washington

Alan Paine
Sweaters

Bostonian
Florsheim
Shoes

 

Win Cash Prizes

Pick the winners in cach ad on this page. The person getting the most
correct wins first prize; next best, second prize. In case of a tie the
closest guess at the actual score of the tie breakers listed below will
win. The contest is open to anyone except members of the RING-TUM
PHI, Entries must be postmarked before Noon on Saturday (Box 899)
or brought to the RING-TUM PHI office in the Print Shop by Noon
Saturday. Only one entry per person,

FIRST PRIZE—$5.00
SECOND PRIZE—$2.50

Official Entry Blank

Advertisers
Alvin-Dennis
Civic Bowling Center ‘
Leggett’s
J. Ed. Deaver & Sons
Adair-Hutton
Woody Chevrolet
College Town Shop
McCrum’s Drug Store
Clark's Billiards
East Lexington Grocery
J and H Cafeteria

Winners

TIE BREAKERS

Purdue Ohio State edi
Texas ee Oklahoma

Name

Add ress -

 

Seturday . . .
a

McCrum’s Drug Store

“CHOOSE YOUR DRUGGIST AS YOU WOULD YOUR DOCTOR”

CALL 463-2323
STORE HOURS

Monday thru Friday 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.

Penn State vs. U.C.L.A,

8 a.m. to 7 p.m.
- 8 am. to 6 p.m.

 

Washington Strate

Clark’s Billiards

Meet your friends
relax—Play Billiards
Watch the Game in Color

vs. Arizona State

 

Oregon State

East Lexington Grocery

Party Supplies — Snacks

Open 7 days a week

8 a.m.-10 p-m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY

EVENING DINNERS

vs. Kentucky

 

 

J and H Cafeteria
Next to the A&P in the
Lexington Shopping Center

OPEN: 11:00 am.3:00 pum,
4:30 pani pom,

Tennessee vs. Georgia Tech

SOSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSHESSSSSSSSSSSSSSESSSSSSSSSSSSSSESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSESSEOSSSESESESES

 

 
