 

The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

SIPA
Special

 

Volume LXVIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 2, 1969

Number 41-A

 

O.W.Riegel Receives
SIPA Service Award

Prof. O. W. Riegel, who last vear
presented three Distinguished Service
Awards, today received the honor
himself at the 40th annual SIPA
Awards luncheon.

Paxton Davis, professor of Journ-
alism and new director of the Lee
Memorial Journalism Foundation,
gave the award to Riegel “for nearly
four decades its (SIPA’s) director and
guiding spirit whose energy and de-
votion to its highest ideals of journ-

“en ”

  
  

 

O. W. Riegel

alism and public service have been
an inspiration to thousands of Ameri-
can youth,”

The tradition of presenting Dis-
tinguished Service Awards was initiat-
ed in 1954 but discontinued in 1963. |
It was reinstituted last year for three
outstanding SIPA supporters.

Prof. Riegel stepped down last year
as chairman of the Department of
Journalism and Communications and
ex-officio director of SIPA. Riegel,
at 65, had reached the manatory re-
tirement age for department heads.
He continues to serve on the faculty
of Washington and Lee University.

He headed the department since |
1934, An analyst of central European!
affairs and of methods of propaganda,
Riegel has held Fulbright, Glenn,
Ford Foundation and  Rockefelle:
Foundation research grants.

One of his books, Mobilizing for
Chaos, a study of causes, effects, and
probable results of government con-
trol of the press and other media,
won the first Sigma Delta Chi Re-
search Award in 1935.

17
b

 

 

SIPA presidential candidates Phi Trompeter,

Pierce and Barry Glassner.

Glassner Elected New SIPA President

Barry Classner nosed oul incum
bent Dennis Gromez by 28 voles to
win today’s election for SIPA presi
dent

The final totals were Glassner, 91
voles: Gomez, 63; David Kiser, 53
Danny David. 40, Patrick Plerce, 40
Vickie Morgan 1 Phil l rompetet
BR: and Rex Schaberg, 4

Students lined up hallway down

 

 

   

 

the steps of Rel Hall to ca vole
for their candidates at one point this
morning

Glassner is edi of The Statesman
of Patrick Henry Hieh Schoo! af
Roanoke, Va winter of the stale
press award of the Virginia Press
Association and the Giroup IT trophy

The president of SIPA usiiall
a risine senior, bul Gomez won |
Years a5 a4 sophomore

The candidates for SIPA presal
aml Ss thei hh Were follow
Danny David, W m yard High

During World War Hl, Riegel
coordinator of information and prin
cipal propaganda analyst for the gov-
ernment. He was a regional specialist
for southeast and central Europe in
the Office of War Information (OW)

Was

and chairman of the New York Re
view Board.

He was also OWI general repre
sentative for Ttaly and the Balkans

in 1945, stationed in Rome, and later
cultural attache for the State Depart
ment and Chief Public Affairs Officer
in the United States legation in Buda
pest. He was a visiting lecturer at the
University of Budapest in the 1946
spring term, where he was presented
with a medal equivalent to an honor

ary degree.

From 1950 to 1966, Riegel was
curator fo rthe Alfred I. duPont |
Awards foundation for Radio and
Felevision.

He is secretary and trustee of
Science Service, an organization for
the poularization of science.

He is a charter member of the

Overseas Press Club in New York, a

 

member of the National Press Club,
the Overseas Writers Club, the Cos-
mos Club of Washington, Sigma Delta
Chi and Pi Delta Epsilon journalism
fraternities, Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta honorary societies and
Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

He is an honorary life member of
Quill and Scrool, winner of a gold!
key from the Columbia Scholastic |
Press Association, member of the
Washington Literary Society, National

| Conference of Editorial Writers, trus-

tee of Trends Research Association
and recipient of a plaque from the
Virginia Press Association for service
to Virginia newspapers through journ- |
alism education. |

Riegel began his journalistic career |
as a paper boy. In 1918, he worked |
for a Wisconsin paper. Then he was |

a reporter for the Reading (Pa.
Tribune in his home town. He was'|
a reporter and desk man for the

Paris staff of the Chieage Tribune and
New York Daily News and special
writer for the Laneaster (Pa.) News-
Journal.

He has traveled in Europe many
times, in communist satellites as well
in western countries. He is cur-
rently finishing work on a film on
a sculpture festival in Czechoslovakia
last summer. He left the country just
ahead of invading Warsaw Paci
troops in August i

dS

Danny David, Dennis Gomez,

Cilassnet

Roanoke

School, \ on
Patrick Henry

Va Harrys

fi

  

 
  

 

     

 

 

 

   

Va. Dennis Gor \ 7
High School. Virginia Beach, Va
David Kiser, Marion High Schoo
Marion Va Miss Vickie Al wean, |
a Rios High School CGireenvil
N& Patrick Pierce, Suffolk H
School, Suffolk Va Rex Schal
Chapel Hill Hieh School Chape
Hol Nf Hill Sh pman i
Henderson High School, Plat Raci
N Gir 7
H a Si ind
Pi ) e Spring Il
School, Cave Va
David : ' ed
hoo in nd ; i
1wnO nr
d
r ' i vi
\
h : i
High School id Work i

 

 

Wicker describes breakdown in relinance upon institutions,

Quality Of Life Said
‘To Be New Concentration

New York Times columnist Tom
Wicker said here yesterday that the
country’s political concentration has
shifted from the standard of living
to the quality of life.

Wicker, an associate editor of the
Fimes and author of its widely sydni
cated “In the Nation” column, said
poverty i sthe concern of an interest
group rather than the dominant politi-
cal force it once was as more and
more Americans are in the affluent
category.

The political questions now center
on education, air pollution and “the
kind of water the fish, not to men-|
tion our children, swim in,” Wicker

said.

He the events of the 1968)
political election had pointed out
changes in the country and its politi-
cal structure, principally a breakdown
in the upon institutions,

said

reliance

He pointed to third party move-
ments and the campaigns of senators
Eugene McCarthy and Robert Ken-
nedy as representative of an increas-
ing loss of confidence in the ability
of governments on all levels to get
the job done.

Vickie Morgan, David Kiser, Patrick

 

 

      

 

 

a: | =
fo ih \ fiia
nl he currer
hiot
iw i n
i
' tik Pe
Pe }
wapul ill “Hi oan u
Ss
f '
i firit Me
pal
v d ‘hh howl
lila of fi
® .
7 ‘
: ial

McCarthy was an “anti-organiza-
tion, anti-institutional, candidate who
was against the biggest institution of
them all—the federal government,”
Wicker said.

He added that MeCarthy was an
effective television performer, an in-

 

creasingly important attribute in a
time that is going through revolu- |
tions in education, communication!

and technology.

Wicker said a political candidate is
almost forced to work as an individual
as much as party candidates because
of polls and television. The polls
dictate to him what his constituency
wants and he must not lambaste the
other party since a large portion of
his audience probably belongs to that
party

He said the two major parties can
no longer build their structure around
the polar bases of farm and city
and predicted that they “would be-
come more and more instruments for
the transfer of power.”

Wicker said these parties would be
neutral on ideological
making it necessary for third parties
to provide ideological emphasis

Wicker also predicted an era of
one-term presidents. He said there is

most issties,

too much questioning of all institu-
tion for the president to control a

party as he has in the past

He added that the opposition has
a better forum because of television
and that “life becoming in
finitely more complex that the job is
just getting to be too hard.”

Wicker said that man’s intellectual
individualism been enhanced
the same time that he feels his dignity
taken by the “massive
of life. He said that people
that they have a diminishing
control of their destiny

is x

has at

being away

Aless

feel

Communications are not as good

as they should be especially

among
who afe supposed to be

ihe editor of This

the people

COMMUN alors

Week said today at the awards lunch
eon
William | Woesiendickh said that

the tremendous competition for sprice

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

amd for the ol the reader of
view makes if impossible to know
how many people are Being reached
rl whet! they believe what they
i reading of seeing
He added that while techno!
has | scl al a heady pace «
media have fu ill moved ri the
speed. For example, he said
W APLipre Hi 6Oticn pul oul
i iti vel aa tll Rec tit
é é Way ‘ von that
way belo
in i my i :
word “ul ff ul H fi
lich | piie of if all in
fi he }
fed fo
i { ’ p
? he ve .
ind | ihal what they
Hi ¢ < havi fieces i
iim
; ry
1. Wo Hick COMlenda!l ia

‘The Statesman,
Carolina Papers

Win State Awards

By LAURENCE M. HILLIARD

The student newspapers of Patrick
Henry High School, Roanoke, Va.,
New Hanover High School, Wilming-
ton, N.C., and Greenville High
School, Greenville, §.C., received
SIPA’s state press awards at today’s
awards banquet.

The Statesman of Patrick
High School won the 2Ist annual
Scholastic Press Award of the Vir-
ginia Press Association “For general
excellence throughout, deserving of
special commendation for its pro-
fessional handling of makeup, photo-
graphy and headline writing: for its
successful editorial campaigns; and as
the most improved publicaiton  en-
tered.”

The editor of Statesman is Barry
Glassner and the adviser is Miss
Lucille K. Lloyd,

The Wildeat of New Hanover High
School won the 19th annual North
Carolina Scholastic Press Award of
the Winston-Salem Journal and the
Twin-City Sentinel “For overall ex-
cellence, participularly for outstand-
ing photography, writing and general
appearance, for the unique handling
of advertising; and for the thorough
news and photo coverage which, when

Henry

combined, provide a revealing and
candid view of the mood of the
student body.

The Wildcat uses student models
and hand-drawn illustrations in its
advertisements. Its editor is Mary
Scott and its adviser is Mrs. Eliza-

beth Lane.

The Greenville High News receiv-
ed the 10th annual David A. Tilling-
hast Memorial Award of the Green-
ville News-Piedmont Company.

The newspaper was cited “For out-
standing promotion and coverage of
the school scene, for thought-provok-
ing editorials, outstanding writing and
editing and attractive page layout:
and for its contribution toward better
cooperation between the school and
community.”
the Greenville High News has
taken an active interest in such issues
as politics and the urbanization prob
lems of Greenville. Susan Norris is

its

i
| editor,

The three special state press awards
are given annually at the SIPA con-
vention “To encourage high stand-

ards of journalistic performance in

the school press and to give public |
recognition to effective leadership of |

school newspapers in the communi
ties which they serve.”

The awards are given to the news
which: |. Show
and progressive
the year, taking into consid
the size of the
Judges will consider evidences

editorial

the mos!

leadership

papers
eflective
curing
eration COMMMUPITY
served
the effectiveness of
paigens and news
for instance,

of cam
coverage

im

as afe

revealed improve

this is a desirable trend, bul one thal
is used too frequently by persons who
ife nol trained of cCOnscicnipous
enough to handle this type of re
porting

He pointed to the frustraion, con
fusion and indifference resulting from
the pace of the times, and said the
media have a responsibiliiy to cut

through these

Trustrations

 

 

ment of the school institution and
services, advancement of school gov-
ernment and other school activities,
including school morale, and better
cooperation between students and
faculty or between the schol and the
community.

2. Show the most improvement in
content and appearance during the
year.

‘Recall’ Wins
Gilliam Award
For 2nd Time

The Augusta Military Academy's
Recall has won the Frank J. Gilliam
Award for the outstanding yearbook
SIPA for the second

at year In a
row.

The theme of the yearbook is
“Branded,” referring to the special
distinction that the Fort Defiance.

Va., military school thinks it gives to
it students.

The 1968 Recall was edited by
Larry Reed and Steve Fox. Col
Charles E. Savedge has advised the
yearbook for the past 13 years. He
is also an SIPA judge and lecturer

The yearbook features exceptional
photography, most notably a_ shot
taken with fish-eye lens at the
beginning of each section.

i
‘

The advertising section is filled with
shots of cadets with blocks of copy
praising a product or service in much
the same format as the other
tions.

sec-

Fhe yearbook contains a directory
index which lists the activities, home
addresses, telephone number and
even the birthdays of each cadet
It also lists the pages on which the
cadet appears in the yearbook.

Recall was also the trophy winner
in the private school group for the
second year in a It will be
ineligible for that honor next vear
since entrants are not allowed to take
a third consecutive trophy,

Ii may win the Gilliam Award
again, however, since that award
given to the best annual chosen by
a group of judges regardless of group
or previous trophies,

This is only the third year that
the Gilliam Award has been given
An anonymous donor requested that
a trophy be named for Washington
aml Lee University's Dean Emeritus

row

is

Frank J. Gilliam in 1967, and the
Gilliam Award was the result

Ihe only other yearbook to win
the award was the Historian of
Douglas Freeman High School of

Richmond,
the trophy
yeal

Va. The Histerian won
in its Group | category

this

Editor Calls For New Methods

 

As editor of This Week, Woesten
dick is in charge of the magazine
with the third large circulation in
the counts With more than 13 mil
Hon copie distributed nm Sunday
newspapers each week ranks be
hind only the Reader's Digest and
T\ Guide.

Woestendick took h bachelor
degree from the Univ ily of North
Carolina and h Thisier s degree from
( olumpia t niver He % iN

man Fellow

Harvard University

 

 

1954
He begat eer in 1948 w
the Winston-Salem Journal, «ork
i ports py edito ty ed
im Sundas dito fi
Newsday in 1955
Bik = editoria i . inal
i pt vw Lo
Is id i ;
f d i Houston Post. A
ne ei *
} aad
; sé
H i i
HHINK p
Inte Business Machin
ive This Week
i
Wo é ‘ . i
| \ ‘
KR
nme Was wilh the Journal,
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Fae

‘Sannin annie) (citi TRO qn

é (i

Ce ae

   

o

wt

The current events quiz gave a few people difficulty,

Nashville Student Is First
In Current Events Contest

Steve Reed of John Overton
winner of SEPA’s current events test.

High

School, Nashville, Tenn., is the

Newspapers Must React To T'V

Staff members Clark Goodwin
and Jeff Wexler talked with New
York Times columnist Tom Wicker
yesterday morning. Here is a tran-
script of that conversation,

R-t Phi: How do you the
roll of newspapers in the next decade?

view

Wicker: | think we have only just

|in a very limited way begun to react

as we are going to have to, to
television. I have written a good deal
about, and I have not changed my
view at all, that what television jour-
nalism is doing, has done practically,
is to take away the front page and
| the headline. And | have always said

‘good riddance” because it seems to
ime that sets the newspaper free at

~ | hast from the straight, “What Hap-

| paned yesterday” syndrome, from the

, ol

incredibly daring, outrageous, in

' teresting publication.

 

informational functions to get much)
more deeply—not merely the “what |

has has happened,” but why it hap-
pened, what the consequences are,
and what possibly can be done about
it,

1 don’t think newspapers have gone
very far in recognizing that, if it is
true. or in doing anything about it,
but you have only to look at the

newspaper coverage of the Eisen-
hower funeral. Millions of people
watched it on television, even more

| watched the Apollo splashdown. Yet

|in we come the next day,

With a score of 72 out of a possible 100, Reed nosed out Mike Merritt |

Kellam High School, Virginia Beach, Va., who scored a 69.

Gary Melton of Patrick Henry High School, Roanoke, Va. and
Anthony Scott Chappell of West Forsyth High School, Clemmons, N.C.
tied for third with 64's. Next with scores of 61 were Samuel V. Brock
of Radford High School, Radford, Va., and Patrick William Pierce of
Sulfolk, Va

Professor John K. Jennings, director of SIPA, put together a test
that thoroughly confused most of the approximately 50 contestants. The

hardest questions for the contestants were:

Harlem on My Mind
politan Museum

Exhibit of Black culture at New York’s Metro-

Andrew Goodpaster—American General removed from Vietnam and
put in charge of NATO forces

Giovanni Musante—Vatican Chaplain who left the church to get
married

Maracaibo—Venezuelan site of history's worst plane crash.

Gustav Heinemann—Newly elected President of West Germany.

Walter Annenberg—President Nixon’s appointee as ambassador to
Great Britain.

Hadrian Vil—New Broadway play

lhe easiest question on the test, judging by the answers, was Goldie |
Hawn C‘Laugh-In’s” kooky blonde.)

Some of the more original answers were:
S. I. Hayakawa (president of strife-torn San Francisco Siate College)

on
with Lee Marvin in

Pearl Harbor: A vessel found and

“Hell in the Pacific.”

Good Housekeeping who resigned after
Consumer

Affairs)}—a baseball player:

Anguilla (Caribbean Island attacked by Great Britain)—Popular type

lapanese commander of the attack
returned the Russians: Co-stal
Willie Mae Rodgers (editor of
three days as Nixon's Chief of
golfer
of fur now in style
Hadrian VIl
1 Am Curious
War cry of the striking students

wiginator of family entertainment,

at San Francisco State

Roman Emperor who originated orgies.
Yellow (controversial Swedish film considered obscene)

Walt Disney, the

would probably turn over in his grave

if he knew that this film was credited to his studio by one student.

Soul City (proposed city in Warren County,
ind used exclusively by Negroes.) Chicago, Harlem, Philadelphia, Memphis, |
and Lexington.

Miami, New Orleans,

North Carolina, to be built

Twenty Judges Hold Key To
Success of SIPA Convention

SIPA to a large extent is as good, ford High School, in Radford, Va

 

 

as its 20 judges make if Mrs. Allyne Holland has taught
Most of them have had consider: | journalism and creative writing at
able experience in newspaper, maga | high School sin Richmond, Arlington
zine or broadcast work, either as a} and Hanover County, Va., and is mat
professional journalist of as an ad-| fied to Robert Holland
viser to a high school publication Robert Holland is education edi
Mrs. Bernie W. Bowles is a teacher | tor of The Richmond Times-Dispatch.
1t Huguenot High Schol in Rich Abram D. Jones Jr. is the edi
mond, Va | torial page editor for the Greens-
Miss Marian Breeden teaches at| boro Record,
Douglas Freeman High School in Mrs. Henrietta Kinman is coordi
Richmond nator for the humanities in the Rich
Father Aueustine Cunningham | mond school system
teaches English and public speaking} Ron McDonald is assistant news
ind nivises the vear book staff al director WDRBI TV in Roanoke, Va
Henedictine High School in Rich Mrs. Marie N. Morris is diector
mond of information services for the Chest
Howard Fanes is assistant manag erfield County School Board
ne editor of The Roanoke Times in joseph L. Presbrey Jr. is director
Roanoke, Va of public relations at Virginia Mili
Marv Garrette is special projects| tary Institute in Lexington
editor of The Richmond Times-Dis- Col. Charles E. Savedge has ad
patch. vised the Augusta Military yearbook
Miss Cecife R. Goodall teaches and | staff for the past 13 years
dvises the yearbook iff at Charles Roy T. Stephenson works for th
n High School in ( esion, Staunton Leader.
W. Va Romulus T. Weatherman is director
lohn Harocopo cache ind ad- of publications al Washington and
« h win 7 at Washine- Lee University
n-le Hiieh Schoo in Arlington, Va Lee Whetstone nuiviser to the
Mr jumes Heinline teaches and uwhook staff at John Marshall High
he hook «staff at Rad-| School in Richmond
= .
The Ring-tum Phi
qj
SIPA SPECIAL EDITION
bal \lan Coopet
Pho Parl Pdwards
‘ jefl Wexler
Siff Vi Clark. Goodwin, Al Hulten
iaurence Hilliard, John Motsinget
i SIPA S | Ihe Ring-tum Phi is | shed by the
\\ . 7 i of Sima Del Chi. national
Washineton and I iourn m
i P i \ nia 24450

| used to subscribe to.

often as
much as 24 hours later, with a blow-
y-blow description of all of this.

I don’t suggest for a minute that

people who watched the Apollo

| splashdown on television or the fun-

don't want to read about it in
They do, But

eral.
the paper the next day.

i

 

they don’t want to read about it, in}

my view, in the old
where “journalism
that’s what they get from telev

R-t Phi: What do you belive
role of the “undeground journalist™
is?

Wicker: What I have
has been rather interesting
be a polemical press, it

terms

seen of it

tends to be

a sort of a pamphlieteer press in a
sense. Often brilliantly written, I
think. I just don't really know if
there is a future for that sort of
thing or not—a future beyond an

undeground role, you know,

The experience of life is that the
underground become the overground
and joins up, Witness the Village
Voice which when | was Sunday Edi-
tor of the Winston-Salem Journal |
This was back
And | thought

know a sort

middle

the most,

“50's.
you

the
was

in
it

By JEFFREY WEXLER
I dare say that most of the post
teeniebop pre-adult representatives
of the Fourth Estate glancing with

| expert eye across this page have little

i ably

as I've prob-

Therefore.

acquaintance with me,
had less with them

i by way of legitimation of this polemic,
i might I mention that | am a regulat

|
“who-whalt-when-

because
sion.

the |

It tends to |

carriage

icolumnist in Washington and Lee's |
' j
Ring-tum Worker, spouting and |
rambling weekly, By way ol this

and other experiences——such as edit
ing a daily newspaper in prep school
back when I was your age (halfway
twixt the French and Indian Wat
and the American Revolution), | have

been asked to describe for the multi

tudes how one writes a column
fake this gem as Exhibit A,

theorize from the specific to the

veneral. A long time ago, last Friday

to be exact | began creation of this
work. In the beginning. all columms
are alike: blank paper and blank
mind. | usually spend from 1S to

1) minutes rolling the paper into the

i

underground
of “under-
therefore a

the
sense

Now whether
press can retain a
groundness” and remain
significant dissident voice, if it is
that, | don’t know, I tend to doubt
it. | think that the more success and
power institutions achieve, the more
institutional they become.

R-t Phi: Would you comment on
recent progress toward racial equality
and the effect on it President Nixon
will have?

Wicker: Well | haven't seen any
recent progress toward racial equality
and my view of the Nixon administra-
tion so far is that it is not likely to
take us very much farther toward
racial equality. To be fair about it,
I think it may be possible that for a
while the Nixon administration may
have a soothing effect on the whole
boiling controversy, but I think that
will be limited at best.

I think we deluded ourselves—we
see now we deluded ourselves—al-
though many a hard fight had been
fought in the past for legal action of
one kind or another, for civil rights
laws as such. And now we have a
wide variety of that kind of legisla-
tion. I don’t suggest that we have
enough, but we have enough of it

 

to know that that by itself, legisla
tion, really doesn't get the job done,
and we have got have much
progress within private — institutions

and in local communities.

to so

There is so much to be done; so
little effort being made to get any
of it done; so much complacency; so

much sheer resistance to the enormity
of the problem that the general ap-
proach of the Nixon administration
is soothe the aspirations of the one
and the fears of the other. It
to be to be almost ludicrous
in its lack of comprehension in the
real needs,

side
seems

R-t Phi: Recently, you wrote a book
on Presidents Johnson and Kennedy,
could you contrast the political style
of the Johnson Administraion and
that of the Richard Nixon so far?

Wicker: | would think the major
difference between the two so far in

style and technique would be that
Nixon is obviously will not be so
activist in terms of either domestic

or foreign policy as Mr, Johnson was.
That is to say, he will not go looking
for trouble quite as much as Presi-
dent Johnson did, he will not try to
inject the powers of the presdency
into

every matter that arises or in
sO many matters that arise. He will
much more nearly try to let other

forces work in American
rather than have every
political and federal.

society
solution be

R-t Phi: At the same time you
might say there is basic dichotomy of
opinion between Mr, Nixon and his
own cabinet. While Mr. Nixon talks of
a consultation between nations, Mr,
Laird seeks a confrontation. At least
this is the impression I have gotten

Wicker: Yes, that is certainly the
impression you would derive from the
stated view of the two men so far,
am not sure that it is a correct
impression. | am not sure there is
that much difference between them.
I am not that sure that history will
show that Mr. Nixon is quite that
committed to, to use his own phrase,
“consultation,” or Laird is quite that
eager for “confrontation,” The Presi-
dent seems to feel somehow that the
Soviets very anxious for arms
limitations for instance and therefore,
if that’s the case, then maybe we
might agree at a price. That in my
view is not really a long stride to-
ward the era of consultation.

Laird, on the other hand, I think
much more nearly a_ straight
political operator who, confonted with
a situation, tries to find means of

are

1S

 

coping with it.

 

Most of the delegates and advisers were able to crowd into Lee Chapel for Tom Wicker'’s speech,

the typewriter. | do this
my right and left index
fingers, those which I use primarily
in my typing. | have always found
the Bible Method of typing most
adequate: “Seek and ye shall find.”

Now before rhythmic patterns of
phantasmagoric prose come dripping
from by cerebrum, | soak it for some
two hours, 45 minutes in a home
primer, the recipe for which was
brought to this country by me Irish
mother with some 30 feet of copper

of

limber

to

| coll, Well lubricated, I return to chai

and machine
The average
to use the word

a

‘normal’) is basically

columnist hesitate

a rather insecure person, hiding be
hind the egotists of the editorials
Not of a position to pontificate in
fallibly, the columnist must “clothe
himself in the armor of a righteous
cause.” He must. For then he ts
impregnable. He must be, For the

last thing that that insecure bird, the
columnist, wants to be contradic
ed in a letter to the editor

is

the several collected millenia
I have sat behind a typewriter
never once been able
topic. Nor, | venture
have you been able
about the world,
with it
the night haunts
common man in whatever

hablet in which | happen

variably my presents itself in
one of the less-frequented gutters
below a once-convivial watering spot
That it should be man’s inhumanity
to man or something more specific

such as police brutality or inadequate

In
which
| have to de-
to stig-

When

must

cide al
gest so
one writes

a tou

one
familiar
of of
town

be. In-

the
or

topic

drainage—is not odd

Words, the next morning, come
easy. The dainty pitter pat of the
typewriter comes hard

| would not recommend without

some modification this method of

creation to any young person of yet

healthy liver and still in their
| minority. Inquiring of certain more
juvenile minds about this campus (a
commodity abundant), | asked how

1 habitually make |

A Short Course in Column Writing

their
the

they wrote
Resulting
columnists:

1. Ask

literary
simple

opus dei.
is recipe for
your mother
Mothers, integral to patriotic trinity
of ‘Mom, the Flag, and Applie Pie.’
are great on impregable topics, Im-
pregnable themselves, they'll usually
tell you to write about the Flag or
Apple Pie.

2. Imitate your editor's style when
writing. That will give the editor
incentive to comment on your fresh,
vigorous manner of prose

3, Have your newspaper faculty
“check the column.” That
way will insure flawless grammar and
semantics and keep the editor from
cutting a single golden word

4, Employ several friends to write
laudatory letters to the editor in re-
sponse your column, This will at
worst balance and at best crowd out
letters of flatteries

S. Pray s invariably
side of but
quently on that of the self so

for a topic.

advisor

lo

lesset
God
the rig

on the

thieous, less fre-

Davis, Jennings Direct SIPA Staff

fhe Southern Interscholastic Press

Association, like any other organiza

 

tion. has an administrative siructure
which makes things move along more
efficiently both in the planning siages
and during the convention tisell

SIPA ponsored by the Lee
Memorial Journalism Foundation at
Washington and Lee. Paxton Davis

director and chairman of the

university's Department of Journalism
ind Communicaborns

John K. Jennings professor ai
journalism at WAL, dire the SIPA
staff He has retu ned from a two
year pe od of graduate work alt Stan
ford University. He had handled th
siministrative work of SIPA prior to

work Stanford

1 he ‘ of u fl on f
the deparimen two ‘ if iq Mu

jiiam Hinton and Mr j Cook

With Jenning ind M Hinton

nil { rh hy ff

i u ? 743
pul who ith th vr

lia wt keep in uch will
175 schools represented at SIPA and

 

forward issil « ons lo

Mir

'
tite

pudlical

take .

cor responde ice

judges ~ nion

of

the
ol
quired by

And

Gal

most re

uch af Operaion

ifrangements must be mad

Paston Davis

for th ne of 1.2

ul HM) persons
feeding cm i lite bh inqucl ind
entertaining them at the dance
He iife plan “or 4 6fou
ind) =o OPT ans natru in ol

 

John K. lennings

  

om ife pices Mes Hinton
indies many of the details here
ils
Wal mich tak care of such
routine tasks as the registration line,
heckin mame tags and supervising
the dance Ihe wuniversitys Sigma
De! ( chapter publishes this
p sil of the campus news
pap
The 1 b upon the
: nid { committee of
: hik public ions This
ts : (oun composed of
Mrs, Fanny W. King, chairman, Henrs
(: ! Schoo! Atlanta Gai Miss
Mi | fer Douglas Freeman
Hi , | ind Va
( af He ' Woodward Aca
| y. Co © Park, Ga Eddie I
Pavn \ fork High School
N wk, W. \ ind Mrs, Ruby I
No Douegla Freeman Higt
% Rich _7
\ } Vcd ( ommittes
14 achires tiered
ne } 10 represented at the
fi i in mportani ud
visory body of the stall

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

18 Entrants Win Trophies At Awards Luncheon

Scholastic Press Award of the Virginia Press Association

(Twenty-first Annual Award), 1969

Award Winner: The Statesman, Patrick Henry High School, Roanoke,
Virginia,

Citation: For general excellence throughout, deserving of special com-
mendation for its professional handling of makeup, photography and head-
line writing; for its successful editorial campaigns; and as the most improved
publication entered, the 1968-69 Scholastic Award of the Virginia Press
Association is made to The Statesman, Patrick Henry High School, Roa-
noke, Virginia.

The North Carolina Scholastic Press Award of the
Winston-Salem Journal and Twin-City Sentinel

(Nineteenth Annual Award), 1969

Award Winner: The Wildcat, New Hanover High School, Wilmington,
North Carolina.

Citation: For overall excellence, particularly for outstanding photo-
graphy, writing and general appearance; for the unique handling of ad-
vertising; and for the thorough news and photo coverage which, when com-
bined, provide a revealing and candid view of the mood of the student body,
the 1968-69 North Carolina Scholastic Press Award of the Winston-Salem
Journal and Twin-City Sentinel is made to The Wildcat, New Hanover
High School, Wilmington, North Carolina,

David A. Tillinghast Memorial Award of the Greenville
News-Piedmont Company for the

South Carolina Scholastic Press

(Tenth Annual Award), 1969

Award Winner: Greenville High News, Greenville Senior High School,
Greenville, South Carolina,

Citation: For outstanding promotion and coverage of the school scene;
for thought-provoking editorials, outstanding writing and editing and at-
tractive page layout; and for its contribution toward better cooperation
between the school and its community, the David A. Tillinghast Memorial
Award of the Greenville News--Piedmont Company for the South Carolina
Scholastic Press Award for 1968-69 is made to Greenville High News,
Greenville Senior High School, Greenville, South Carolina,

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP I (Enrollment 1500 or more)

Trophy Winner: Raiders’ Digest, J.E.B. Stuart High School, Falls Church,
Virginia,

First Place Award Group: Sentry, Yorktown High School, Arlington,
Virginia; Commentator, Douglas S. Freeman High School, Richmond, Vir-
ginia; Wildeat, New Hanover High School, Wilmington, North Carolina;
The Jeffersonian, Thomas Jefferson High School, Richmond, Virginia; Chat-
terbox, George Washington High School, Danville, Virginia; The Star,
Halifax County High School, South Boston, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: Navigator, Fort Lauderdale High School, Fort
Lauderdale, Florida: Greenville High News, Greenville Senior High School,
Greenville, South Carolina: Tribal Tales, Kecoughtan High School, Hampton,
Virginia; The A-Blast, Annandale High School, Annandale, Virginia; Fair
Facts, Fairfax High School, Fairfax, Virginia; Wood Post, James Wood
High School, Winchester, Virginia: The Eagle, East Mecklenburg High
School, Charlotte, North Carolina; Lee’s Traveller, Lee High School, Hunts-
ville, Alabama: The High Times, E. C. Glass High School, Lynchburg,
Virginia; The Highlander, McLean High School, McLean, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: The Roundtable, Floyd E. Kellam High
School, Virginia Beach, Virginia; Krabba Highlight, Hampton High School,
Hampton, Virginia; Jaguar Journal, Falls Church High School, Falls Church,
Virginia; Eyrie, Airport High School, West Columbia, South Carolina; The
Talon, East Forsyth High School, Kernersville, North Carolina; North Star,
North Mecklenburg High School, Huntersville, North Carolina; The Wind-
jammer, Homer L. Ferguson High School, Newport News, Virginia; Hi-Times
of McArthur, McArthur High School, Hollywood, Florida; The Earle, War-
wick High School, Newport News, Virginia.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP II (Enrollment 1201 to 1500)

Trophy Winner: The Statesman, Patrick Henry High School, Roanoke,
Virginia.

First Place Award Group: Hi-News, Edmunds High School, Sumter,
South Carolina: Le Journal, Huguenot High School, Richmond, Virginia;
Sentinel, Fort Hill High School, Cumberland, Maryland; Hickory Twig,
Claremont Central High School, Hickory, North Carolina; Knight Letter,
Cave Spring High School, Roanoke, Virginia; The Orbit, John Overton High
School, Nashville, Tennessee: Shipmate, Cradock High School, Portsmouth,
Virginia; The Sabre, William Fleming High School, Roanoke, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: Green Lights, Junius H. Rose High School,
Greenville, North Carolina; Tiger Rag, Groveton High School, Alexandria,
Virginia; Faleoner, Fauquier High School, Warrenton, Virginia; Muckraker,
Thomas Dale High School, Chester, Virginia; Wythe Ledger, George Wythe
High School, Richmond, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: The Albemarle Highlight, Albemarle High
School, Charlottesville, Virginia; Behind The Pines, Pine Forest High School,
Fayetteville, North Carolina; Panthianette, Hermitage High School, Rich-
mond, Virginia; The Bridge, Great Bridge High School, Chesapeake, Vir-
ginia; Andrew Lewis High School, Salem, Virginia; Indian
Scripts, Gar-Field High School, Woodbridge, Virginia.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP III (Enrollment 1001 to 1200)
Trophy Winner: The Loudoun Raider, Loudoun County High School,
Leesburg, Virginia.
First Place Award Group: Cavalier, Dorman High School, Spartanburg,
South Carolina; The Yellow Jacket, Osbourn Senior High School, Manassas,
Virginia; Jefferson News, Jefferson Senior High School, Roanoke, Virginia;

The Fike Hi-Zette, Ralph L. Fike Senior High School, Wilson, North.

Carolina; The Southerner, Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia.

Kings Mountain, North Carolina; Colonial Courier, Colonial Heights High
School, Colonial Heights, Virginia: The Barker, Martinsville High School,
Martinsville, Virginia: The North Winds, Northside High School, Roanoke,
Virginia; Petersburg High Review, Petersburg High School, Petersburg, Vir-
ginia.
Achievement Award Group: Rocketeer, Roxboro High School, Roxboro,
North Carolina: The Sentinel, Liberty High School, Bedford, Virginia: The
Cavalier, East Rutherford High School, Forest City, North Carolina; The
Franklin Eagle, Franklin County High School, Rocky Mount, North Carolina.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP IV (Enrollment 801 to 1000)

Trophy Winner: Wa-Co-Hi-Lights, Warren County High School, Front
Royal, Virginia

Fiest Place Award Group: The Little Virginian, Virginia High School,
Bristol, Virginia; The Blue and Gray, Statesville Senior High School, States-
ville, North Carolina; Leeword, R. E. Lee High School, Staunton, Virginia
The Pepergram, Culpeper County High School, Culpeper, Virginia; Courier,
East Henderson High School, Flat Rock, North Carolina

Honor Award Group: Proconian, Chapel Hill High School, Chapel Hill
North Carolina: Crest, Northern High School, Durham, North Carolina: The
Spotlight, James Monroe High School, Fredericksburg, Virginia; Ye Royal
Scribe, Prince George High School, Prince George. Virginia; High Notes,
Hartsville High School, Hartsville, South Carolina: The Kennel, Dunbs:
High School, Dunbar, West Virginia; The Acorn, Southern High School,
Oakland, Maryland.

Achievement Award Group: Echo, Cary High School, Cary, North
Carolina; Tattle Tale, Blacksburg High School, Blacksburg, Virginia; Betsy

 

Reflector, Elizabeth High School, Elizabeth, Tennessee; Woodchopper, Rich-
wood High School, Richwood, West Virginia; Mann-U-Script, James L. Mann
High School, Greenville, South Carolina; The Southerner, Lee-Davis High
School, Mechanicsville, Virginia; Oriole Chirps, Pulaski High School, Pulaski,
Virginia; The Amherite, Amherst County High School, Amherst, Virginia.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP V (Fnrollment 601 to 800)

Trophy Winner: The Rebel, Louisa County High School, Mineral, Vir-
ginia.

First Place Award Group: Kablegram, Staunton Military Academy,
Staunton, Virginia; Talon, Abingdon High School, Abingdon, Virginia; The
Owl, Big Creek High School, War, West Virginia: The Acorn, Radford
High School, Radford, Virginia; The Royal Dan, Dan River High School,
Ringgold, Virginia; Trojan, Tunstall High School, Dry Fork, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: County Crier, Floyd County High School, Floyd,
Virginia; Marionette, Marion Senior High School, Marion, Virginia; The
Scarletter, Lexington High School, Lexington, Virginia; The Trumpet, Hills-
ville High School, Hillsville, Virginia; The Cyclone, Chester Senior High
School, Chester, South Carolina; The Stinger, Forest Hills High School,
Marshville, North Carolina; Blue Print, Harrisonburg High School, Harrison-
burg, Virginia; High Times, Whiteville High School, Whiteville, North
Carolina.

Achievement Award Group: The Statesmen, Randolph-Henry High
School, Charlotte Court House, Virginia; The Thistle, Glenvar High School,
Salem, Virginia; Demon Highlights, Christiansburg High School, Christians-
burg, Virginia; True Relations, Varina High School, Richmond, Virginia;
Golden Eagle, Grundy Senior High School, Grundy, Virginia; Until The
Rat Dies, North Harford High School, Pylesville, Maryland.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP VI (Enrollment 401 to 600)

Trophy Winner: Newberry Cordial, Newberry High School, Newberry,
South Carolina.

First Place Award Group: The Tornado, McCallie School, Chattanooga,
Tennessee; Blue 'N Gold Spotlight, Independence High School, Independence,
Virginia.

Honor Award Group: The Gold and Black, Carrollton High School,
Carrollton, Georgia; Demon Tales, Northfork High School, Northfork, West
Virginia; The Panther, Piedmont High School, Monroe, North Carolina;
Monitor, Bluestone High School, Skipwith, Virginia; The Colonel, Altavista
High School, Altavista, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: The Spokesman, Cheraw High School,
Cheraw, South Carolina; The Shield, Riverheads High School, Staunton, Vir-
ginia; Trojan Trumpet, Midlothian High School, Midlothian, Virginia; Bow
Wow, Brunswick High School, Lawrenceville, Virginia.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP VII (Enrollment 400 or fewer)

Trophy Winner: The Crossette, Holy Cross High School, Lynchburg,
Virginia.

First Place Award Group: E.H.S, Chronicle, Episcopal High School,
Alexandria, Virginia; The Shearings, St. Agnes School, Alexandria, Virginia;
Hill Topics, Rock Hill Academy, Charlottesville, Virginia; Windsock, East-
ern Mennonite High School, Harrisonburg, Virginia; The Meteor, Virginia
Episcopal School, Lynchburg Virginia; The Bridge Bulletin, Natural Bridge
High School, Natural Bridge, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: The Focus, Prince Edward Academy, Farmville,
Virginia; Bayonet, Augusta Military Academy, Fort Defiance, Virginia:
Green-Briers, Greenbrier Military School, Lewisburg, West Virginia: The
Chevron, Benedictine High School, Richmond, Virginia; The Match, The
Collegiate Schools, Richmond, Virginia; The Round-Up, Rich Valley High
School, Saltville, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Fluco Hi Quill, Fluvana County High
School, Carysbrook, Virginia; The Greenway Grapevine, St. Anne's School,
Charlottesville, Virginia; Per-Co-Hi Tattler, Perquimans High School, Hert-
ford, North Carolina; The Devils’ Tales, Lancaster High School, Kilmarnock,
Virginia: The Oak Leaf, Carolion Oaks School, Norfolk, Virginia; The
Arcadian, St. Catherine's School, Richmond, Virginia.

NEWSPAPERS, MIMEOGRAPH
Trophy Winner: Spotlight, Montevallo High School, Montevallo, Ala-
bama,

First Place Award Group: Pow Wow, Cumberland High School, Nash-
ville, Tennesse; Confederate, Huguenot Academy, Powhatan, Virginia: Black
and Gold, Buffalo Gap High School, Swoope, Virginia; Patriot, Alleghany
High School, Covington, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: Ram's Horn, Blackstone High School, Blacktone,
Virginia: The Zephyr, West Forsyth High School, Clemmons, North Carolina;
The Plume, Holston High School, Damascus, Virginia; Vox Ducis, William
Campbell High School, Naruna, Virginia; Hoke Highlights, Hoke High
School, Raeford, North Carolina.

Achievement Award Group: Roundtable, James River High School,
Buchanan, Virginia; The Dispatcher, Crewe High School, Crewe, Virginia;
Long Shot, Mancio High School, Maneto, North Carolina: The Gardener,
Garden High School, Oakwood, Virginia; The Ram, Stedman High School,
Stedman, North Carolina: Gold and Purple Glimpses, Waynesboro High
School, Waynesboro, Virginia.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP I (Enrollment 1400 or more)

Trophy Winner: Historian, Douglas S. Freeman High School, Richmond,
Virginia.

First Place Award Group: Cavalier, George Washington High School,
Danville, Virginia; Jaguar, Falls Church High School, Falls Church, Virginia;
Ebb Tide, Fort Lauderdale High School, Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Nautilus,
Greenville Senior High School, Greenville, South Carolina; Tomahawk,
Kecoughian High School, Hampton, Virginia: Hickory Log, Claremon Cen-
tral High School, Hickory, North Carolina; Warwick, Warwick High School,
Newport News, Virginia: Talon, Huguenot High School, Richomnd, Virginia;
Marshallite, John Marshall High School, Richmond, Virginia: The Haliscope,
Halifax County High School, South Boston, Virginia; Hanoverian, New

| Hanover High School, Wilmington, North Carolina
Honor Award Group: Highland Fling, Highland Springs High School,
Highland Springs, Virginia: Mountaineer, Kings Mountain High School, |

 

Honor Award Group: Antenna, Annandale High School, Annandale,
Virginia: Totem, Woodlawn Senior High School, Baltimore, Maryland: East
Wind, East Mecklenburg High School, Charlotte, North Carolina: Fair Fae
Sampler, Fairfax High School, Fairfax, Virginia; Viking, North Mecklenburg
High School, Huntersville, North Carolina; Aquila, Fast Forsyth High School,

Kernersville, North Carolina; The Clan, McLean High School, McLean, |
Virginia: The Challenger, Floyd E. Kellam High School, Virginia Beach,
; Staunton, Virginia: Plomeer 1968, Huguenot Academy, Powhatan, Virginia;

Virginia.

Achieveemnt Award Group: The Mustang, McArthur High School,
Hollywood, Florida; The Crest, E. ¢

YEARBOOKS, GROUP II (Enrollment 1101 to 1400)

Trophy Winner: Chancellor, George Wythe High School, Richmond,
Virginia

First Place Award Group: Causeway, Great Bridge High School, Chesa-
peake, Virginia; Reflector, Thomas Dale High School, Chester, Virginia:
Highlander, Highland Springs High School, Highland Springs, Virginia: The
Anchor, Newport News High School, Highland Springs. Virginia; The
Anchor, Newport News High School, Newport News, Virginia; Memoir,
Manchester High School, Richmond, Virginia; Ploneer, Andrew Lewis High
School, Salem, Virginia

Henor Award Group: The Peer, Albermurle High School, Charlottes
ville, Virginia: Mavahi, Martinsville High Schol, Martinsville, Virginia
Admiral, Cradock High School, Portsmouth, Virginia: Panthian, Hermitage
High School, Richmond, Virginia: Aquila, Airport High School, West
Columbia, South Carolina

Achievement Award Group: Tigerma, Giroveion High School, Alex
andria, Virginia: Milestones, Kings Mountain Hieh School, Kings Mountain

North Carolina; Patriot, Patrick Henry High School, Roanoke, Virginia; Hie’

 

Glass High School, Lynchburg, Virginia. |

Ways, Edmunds High School, Sumter, South Carolina; The Eyrie, Fauquier
High School, Warrenton, Virginia.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP III (Enrollment 1001 to 1100)
Trophy Winner: Orator, Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia.
First Place Award Group: The Lancer, East Rutherford High School,
Forest City, North Carolina; Lord Loudoun, Loudoun County High School,
Leesburg, Virginia; Missile, Petersburgh High School, Petersburg, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: The Heritage, Liberty High School, Bedford,
Virginia; The Virginian, Virginia High Schol, Bristol, Virginia; Omnibus,
Colonial Heights Hgh School, Colonal Heghts, Virginia; Animo, Franklin
County High School, Rocky Mount, Virginia; Rocket, Roxboro High School,
Roxboro, North Carolina; Vanguard, Dorman High School, Sparanburg, South
Carolina; Accolade, Ralph L. Fike Senior High School, Wilson, North
Carolina.

Achievement Award: Acorn, Jefferson Senior High School, Roanoke,
Virginia.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP IV (Enrollment 801 to 1000)

Trophy Winner: Highlander, East Henderson High School, Flat Rock,
North Carolina.

First Place Award Group: Skyline, Waynesboro High School, Waynes-
boro, Virginia; Black Swan, William Byrd High School, Vinton, Virginia;
Peerage, Prince George High School, Prince George, Virginia; Oriole,
Pulaski High School, Pulaski, Virginia; The Colonnade, Culpeper County
High School, Culpeper, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: North Star, Northside High School, Roanoke,
Virginia; The Confederate, Lee-Davis High School, Mechanicsville, Virginia;
Devilpup 1968, Lejeune High School, Camp Lejeune, North Carolina; YRAC,
Cary High School, Cary, North Carolina; Retrospect, Hartsville High School,
Hartsville, South Carolina; Alcova, Alleghany County High School, Cov-
ington, Virginia; The Amethyst, Amherst County High School, Amherst,
Virginia; Maple Leaves, Dublin High School, Dublin, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Pow Wow, Blacksburg High School, Blacks-
burg, Virginia; The Cronus, West Forsyth High School, Clemmons, North
Carolina; Polaris, Northern High School, Durham, North Carolina; The
Hi-Jacket, Osbourn Senior High School, Manassas, Virginia; Trails, Cedar
Grove High School, Cedar Grove, West Virginia; The Bulldog, Dunbar
High School, Dunbar, West Virginia; Leeway, R. E. Lee High School,
Staunton, Virginia.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP V (Enrollment 601 to 800)

Trophy Winner: The Spartanian, Drewry Mason High School, Ridge-
way, Virginia.

First Place Award Group: 1968 Legend, Fort Defiance High School,
Fort Defiance, Virginia; The Trial, Statesville Senior High School, States-
ville, North Carolina; Talismann, James L. Mann High School, Greenville,
South Carolina; Saga, Loudoun Valley High School, Purcellville, Virginia;
Mirror, Warren County High School, Front Royal, Virginia; Lliad, Tunstall
High School, Dry Fork, Virginia; Oak Leaf, Radford High School, Radford,
Virginia.

Honor Award Group: Chieftain, Hillsville High School, Hillsville, Vir-
ginia; Taj, Harrisonburg High School, Harrisonburg, Virginia; The High-
lander, Southern High School, Oakland, Maryland; The Crystal, Lexington
High School, Lexington, Virginia; Puffs and Patches, Covington High School,
Covington, Virginia; Crusader, Glenvar High School, Salem, Virginia; The
Cestrian, Chester Senior High School, Chester, South Carolina; The Varinian,
Varina High School, Richmond, Virginia; Sandspur, Whiteville High School,
Whiteville, North Carolina; Beacon, Abingdon High School, Abingdon, Vir-
ginia; Indian Legend, Stafford High School, Falmouth, Virginia; The Yellow
Jacket, Forest Hills High School, Marshville, North Carolina.

Achievement Award Group: The Aerie, North Harford High School,
Pylesville, Maryland; Hurricane, Marion Senior High School, Marion, Vir-
ginia; The Shield, Lord Botetourt High School, Daleville, Virginia; The Log,
Randolph-Henry High School, Charlotte Court House, Virginia; Le Sabre,
Southern High School, Durham, North Carolina; Memoirs, Big Creek High
School, War, West Virginia; The Archway, Dan River High School, Ring-
gold, Virginia.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP VI, (Enrollment 600 or fewer)
Trophy Winner: Trojan, Midlothian High School, Midlothian, Virginia.
First Place Akard Group: The Prowler, Piedmont High School, Monroe,

North Carolina; Bulldog, Brunswick High School, Lawrenceville, Virginia;
Echo, George Wythe High School, Wytheville, Virginia; Bison, Floyd County
High School, Floyd, Virginia; The Brave, Cheraw High School, Cheraw,
South Carolina.

Honor Award Group: Colosseum, Riverheads High School, Staunton,
Virginia: The Railroader, Crewe High School, Crewe, Virginia: The Ivy,
Blackstone High School, Blackstone, Virginia; Fluvannual, Fluvanna County
High School, Carysbrook, Virginia; The Garden Echo, Garden High School,
Oakwood, Virginia; The Core, Louisa County High School, Mineral, Vir-
ginia; Castletonian, Castlewood High School, Castlewood, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Kanawhan, James River High School,
Buchanan, Virginia; The Golden Link, Bluestone High School, Skipwith, Vir-
ginia; Mahi, Madison County High School, Madison, Virginia; The General,
William Campbell High School, Naruna, Virginia; The Nuntias, Altavista
High School, Altavista, Virginia; The Critvalle, Chilhowie High School, Chil-
howie, Virginia: The Ham, Smithfield High School, Smithfield, Virginia; The
Devil's Diary, Independence High School, Independence, Virginia; Echo, Fries
High School, Fries, Virginia; Cheo Chee, R. Bb. Worthy High School, Salt-
ville, Virginia,

YEARBOOKS, PRIVATE

Trophy Winner: Recall, Augusta Military Academy, Fort Defiance,
Virginia.

First Place Award Group: Torch, The Collegiute Schools, Richmond,
Virginia; The Cadet, '68, Benedictine High School, Richmond, Virginia.

Henor Award Group: The Pennant, MeCallic School, Chattanooga,
Tennessee: Ember, Eastern Mennonite High School, Harrisonzure, Virginia;
Cavalier, Prince Edward Academy, Farmville, Virginia: Lamb's Tale, St
Agnes School, Alexandria, Virginia; Rebel Yell, John S. Mosby Academy,
Front Royal, Virginia; The Saint, St, Anne's School, Charlottesville, Virginia;
Pinnacle, Rock Hill Academy, Charlottesville, Virginia: Acorn, Carolton

| Oaks School, Norfolk, Virginia; Guardian, Gibbons High School, Peters-

burg, Virginia
Achievement Award Group: Mue and Gold, Staunton Miliary Academy,

Brier Patch, Greenbrier Military School, Lewisburg, West Virginia,

MAGAZINES, GROUP I (Enrollment 1300 or more)
Trophy Winner: Quill, Patrick Henry High School, Roanoke, Virginia
First Place Award Group: The Declaration, [hom Jefferson High
School. Richmond, Virginia; The Educator, Douglas §. Freeman High
School. Richmond, Virginia: Penman, Washington-Lee High School, Arling
ton, Virginia: Eyrie, Bast Mecklenburg High School, Charlotte, North Caro
linn: The Critic, EF. C. Glass High School, Lynchburg, Virginia: Leaves,
Claremont Central High School, Hickory, North Carolina; The Plough,
Warwick High School, Newport News, Virginia: Signature, Edmunds High
School. Sumter, South Carolina: Squire, Thomas Dale High School, Chester,
Virginia: Cadence, 1.6.8. Stuart High School, Falls Church, Virginia

Henor Award Group: Filament, Annandale High School, Annandal
Virginia: Helm, Homer L. Ferguson Hizh School, Newport News, Virginia
Yertan, MeClean High School, McLean. Virginia; Seafarer, Hampton High
School. Hampton, Virginia; Cardinal Tafent Scout, George Washingion High
School. Danville, Virginia; Galaxy, Halifax County High School, South
Hoston, Virginia; Idylis, Cave Spring High School, Roanoke, Virginia;

(Continued on Page 4)
Page 4 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Looking

Many of the short courses were more
crowded than this one, but tired feet
were not as common this year as in
the past. Many of the more popular
courses were taught more than once
for the first time.

stdin

Tuesday was more suitable for a
walk than what seemed like a mil-
lion hours in classroom, but these
delegates were more than likely hur-
rying to their next class.

 

It wasn't all drudgery for those manning the registration line.

18 Trophies Awarded

(Continued from Page 2)

Statesman, George Wythe High School, Richmond, Virginia: Torch, David Kiser of Marion. Va.. was
Kecoughtan High School, Hampton, Virginia one of ten students who campaigned
Achievement Award Group: Collage, Gar-Field High School, Wood- for the SIPA presidency. Delegates
bridge. Virginia: Leg, Cradock High School. Portsmouth. Virginia: The Scot. covered Reid Hall with posters, and
Willlam Fieming High School, Roanoke, Virginia: Sereol. Hermitage High Kiser's hat was only one of a num-
School, Richmond, Virginia: Bits O° Lit, Greenville Senior High School, bet of gimmicks as candidates passed
Greenville, South Carolina: Paw Print, Fails Church High School, Falls OUt lollipops, golf tees and the usual
Church. Virginia: Student Silhouettes, Airport High School, West Columbia, handbills.
South Carolina

MAGAZINES, GROUP II (Enrollment 901 to 1300)
frephy Winner: Skald, Northside High School, Roanoke, Virginia
First Place Award Group: The Heather, Highland Springs High School,

Highland Sprin Virgin Listen, Huguenot High School, Richmond, Vir

sittia
Honer Award Group: The Sleeping Giant, Amherst County High
School, Amby \ ' Collage. Henry Grady High School, Atlanta,

         

iM the Other Mud. Chapel Hill High School hapel Hill, North
Carolina: The Bridgetown Sereol, Great Bridge High School, Chesapeake
Virgin Hottprints, \| miny County High School, Covington, Virginia
Pencillings, Harisville Hieh School, Hartsville, South Carolina: The Lemon
Iree. ihRo nm Sen Hich School, Mana Virginia Ihe Penpoint, Lee i
Davis High School, M nicsville, Virginia: Aufait, Prince George High |
Scho Prince George. V Acorn, Jefferson Senior High School, Roa

— it High School, Warrenton, Virginia

Achievement Award Group: Crossed Sabres, Loudoun County High)
School, | i \ | Horizons, Martinsville High School, Martinsville, |
\

MAGAZINES, GROUP IIL (Enrollment 900 or fewer)

 

 

 

 

lrophy Winner: Bagpipe. Clon. llich School, Salem. \V nia
First Place Award Group: Eihon, lames L. Mann Hich School. Green
™) ‘ ' Keflectiomn, Vion » High now Manteo North
{ llichlind Scops, | i oe y H HO Fiovd, Vireimia
Scimitar, S M Academy, Staunton, Virgin The current events quiz was a tot
Hener Award (.roup: Spectrum, 5 Acre hoo), Alexandr Virona more fun for the jdges than the
Review. A H “School, Altavista. Virgin Parades, Varina Hich contestants. Rut this soung lady ap-
‘ I 4 Flame, lhe €C oll e Schoo Richmond, Vir-| parently is net as troubled as some
Argonaut, Vict Sch ‘ inooga, Tennesse of the others. (See page 2).
Achievement Award Croup: Postale, Foxcroft School, Middlebure, Vir-|
Garden Gates, ( j i S Oakwood. \ t Les Belles | Photos by L. Ldward
lettres, 5S \ S €} oO Virgin Dux Seribit, William
f ' H s \ \ Horizom. Carolion Oaks School. |
Norfolk, \ Infer Se. Vi i Hieh School, Mon illo, Alab
Indian Trail, Pero liieh § ‘ Hertford, North Carolin
Oall, ¢ H S { So (
RADIO
lrophy Winner: Ins and Outs, { pel H i s #. Chapel Hil
* . i

Hener Award Group: Krabba Karavan, Hampion Hieh School, Hamp-|

Achievement Award Group: Lee Journal, R. Fix

 

Radio Prowram., ( mi ¢ High Sel
‘ ‘ Loudoun Haider (fn The Air, | lovn {
Viarrice Tom tom & ain Hie S

Vie Are The Tinon, | trip ii > sw i Virginia i

 

 
