 

 

WEEKEND WEATHER

Fonight—Partly cloudy, with a chance
of snow flurries, Low 38.

Saturday high

of 40.

Sunday

Increasingly cloudy,

Cloudy, cold, snow likely

Volume LXVIII

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 7, 1969

Che KRing-tumn Phi

FRIDAY
Edition

Number 36

 

Pennsyngers
To Perform
On Saturday

The University Pennsylvania’s
Pennsyngers, an all-girl choral group,
will in a joint concert with the
WAL Glee Club tomorrow night at
8:00 in Lee Ch*, & The concert will

ol

sing

also feature the John A. Graham
Brass Choir.
The combined vocal groups will

perform The Magnificent by Giovanni
Battista Pergolesi. |

The Pennsyngers will present works
of di Lasso, Graham, and Burroughs,
Jim Webb's popular “Up, Up and
Away,” and a potpourri of traditional
songs,

WAL’s Glee Club will feature
Lerner’s “Theme from Camelot,”
“Blow, Gabriel, Blow,” and songs by

Bruckner, R. Vaughn Williams.
Thompson, and Holst.

The Brass choir will perform works
of Bach, Bonelli, and King

Under the direction of Mr. I

Dennis Rittenhouse, the Pennsyngers

is composed of fifty women. In its
twelve-year history the group has
staged joint concerts with choral

groups on many college campuses.

1971 Convention
Seeks Chairmen “"" “““

 

 

PETE EGGERS AND CINDY COLEMAN share the lead in the Trouba-
| dours’ latest production, “America Hurrah,” starting Wednesday at the
Photo by Cooper

| Five Elections Yet To Be Held

 

For 9 Regions

The Interim Coordinating Commit

of the 1972 Mock Democratic
National Convention is still soliciting |
applications for regional chairmen
fom interested freshmen,

lee

As of this week, 13 fraternities

here had elected their officers for next

| year he remaining five. luding

Convention Interim Chairman Ron | “0 5. he fem — ov Poe ud .

. Me } s, the

Kessler announced yesterday that for | on An Gams, “ ha = “
? + t i t tne

the minimum of nine regional chair ‘ aps, the ! Ws, and the

Sigma Chi's, said that they intended

man posts available, only seven appli-

 

  

         

 

 

 

  

treasurer; and Buddy Miller, rush
chairman
The Lambda Chi’s elected John

Crockett president: John McCardell,
vice-president: Hugh Guill, treasurer;

and Henry Juernigan, secretary.

 

|
|
|

|
|
Washington and Lee University and
seven other private colleges in Vir-
| ginia and North Carolina which are
| predominantly mens or women’s
institutions have initiated discussions
of a student exchange among these
institutions.

The presidents of Davidson, Hamp-
den-Sydney, Hollins, Mary Baldwin,
Randolph-Macon College, Randolph-
| Macon Woman's ¢ ollege, Sweet Briar
j}and W&L held an initial meeting re-
cently Randolph-Macon Woman's
| College.
“They expressed a strong interest
in a student exchange and decided
to continue their exploration of ways
'in which such a program might be
| implemented,” said R-MWC President
William F. Quillian Jr., who con-
| vened the meeting.
| According to the plan under dis-
cussion, a student in any of the
eight colleges might attend another
of the participating colleges for a year
or possibly for a semester, Dr. Quil-
lian said. Each college would pre-
sumably indicate the number of such
exchange students it could accept in
a given year or semester.

He noted two major advantages of
program. “One is that it would
extend the range of courses available
,;to the students in these colleges.

al

the

Fraternities Choose New Officers

Digel rush chairman, and Steve Uniti

treasure!

At the Pika house, Rick Dunlap |
will be next year’s president, and in|
his cabinet will be Arthur Cleveland, |

vice president: Charlie Andrews, trea-

 

 

 

   
 
 

 

 

| Thus, a student could take advantage
of the strengths of each college in
the group,” he said. “Also, it would
afford a diverse educational experi-
ence for the exchange students and
give each of the colleges a limited
coeducational experience.”

At the present time discussions are
very tentative, according to Dr.
Quillian. “If details of this program
can be worked out in a way that
seems desirable and feasible to the
colleges engaged in these discussions,
the plan would then be submitted to
the respective governing bodies of
these institutions for their approval,”
he said.

A second meeting of the presidents
of the eight colleges is scheduled for
March If in Lynchburg.

Shortly the first
President E. R. Huntley ap-
pointed nine faculty and admini-
strative staff members and one stu-
dent body representative to three
special study committees to provide
him with an analysis of how such an
exchange program might be imple-
mented at Washington and Lee.

One committee is studying financial
matters under the chairmanship of
Treasurer James W. Whitehead, as-
sisted by Dr. Jay D. Cook and Dr.
Charles F. Phillips, Jr.

Curricular matters are being stud-
ied by Associate Dean of the College
William J. Watt with assistance from
Dr. John F. DeVogt and Dr. H.
Marshall Jarrett.

Associate Dean of Students Lewis
G. John heads a group investigating
student affairs implications of the ex-
| change. Others on this committee in-
; clude senior Rob Bauer of Largo,
Fla., Dr. Louis W. Hodges, and Dr.
Thomas C. Imeson.

A fourth group consisting of Dean
of the College William W. Pusey II,

after
Robert

meeting,

 

 

 

University Explores Possibility
Of Seven College Exchange

Huntley and assisting him in prepara-
tion for the March 11 discussions.

In outlining the committees’ as-
signments, President Huntley em-
phasized that study of the exchange
program and its possible implementa-
tion by September, 1970, does not
preclude further study that could lead
to additional exchange arangements
with one or more members of the
eight-college group. And he said that
Washington and Lee's participation in
such exchange programs does not
necessarily preclude the possibility of
future general coeducation at the Uni-
versity.

Trial Proposals :
Stand Corrected

Stu-
Tuesday

According to Jay Passavant,
dent Body President, the
Ring-tum Phi erroneously reported
the time limit allowed an accused
person under the new Honor System
recommendations.

The accused, Passavant said, will
be allowed two hours, not 24, be-
tween a precise statement of the ac-
cusation and the beginning of the
Honor Trial. Steve Sandler, who had
supported the 24-hour clause, ac-
cepted the revision with the provision
that the student body president may,
at his discretion, extend the period
to 24 hours “for good reason.”

According to Passavant, the time
extensions was recommended to allow
the accused to compose himself and
collect his thoughts and therefore ex-
cept under special circumstances, if
was felt that two hours was sufficient.

SWEET BRIAR NOTICE
Noel Coward's “Blithe Spirit” will

. . celery | (© hold their elections soon In the Phi Delt house, Bill Wagner surer: and Chip Schooley, secretary. | ; ; :
cations have been received. Kessler = ' resident: Jed Lykes, vice-president: bul Walthal the new SAE) Dean of Students Edward C. Atwood | be performed at Sweet Briar College
sd th “I honed that I could lace In the Beta house, John Johnson president: Jed Lykes, vice-president; ulian althal is the new s = sabe
stated that roped that | could place, : = a ; . new | Jf. and presidential assistant Frank| on March 14 and 15. Curtain will
cach regio hus Will be president: Bruce Garrett, vice | Lawson Cannon, secretary: and Wally! president, Randy Hutto is the new!
two persons for each region, thus : : : = = = bo Price secretary.; 4: Parsons is coordinating the work} be at 8:30 p.m. and there is no ad-
making 18 jobs open. This a great president; Staman Ogilvie, treasurer; Barr is treasuret | Vice-president, Bobo Price secretary, . the oth . tae Pell ——- h
aaning ‘ ope I é Breas i ‘ ) - Oo a “oO 2e ) * . : . ve.
hance for freshmen to get in on the | Rithard Scruggs. corresponding secre The Phi Eps elected Lenny Parkins| and Whitlow Wyatt won the treasur-| ‘ © omer committees for President mission charge
cnahee if es c ke ( ci ‘ . - ‘oenmee tn en at
round floor of the Convention By @f¥: and Chuck Dobins, recording president, Charlie Ross vice-president, | er's post.
v 4 I CHiiol - . .
‘271 eae aan te eee te wlll he | Secretary Mike Unti recording secretary, David The only Sigma Nu posts filled so W& CA NDAR
} ._ = Gi c e there cl ‘. +
nore people wishing to work on th Wally Simmons is the new Deli Raine corresponding secretary, Greg far are those of It. commander, David = LE
more pe e u e :
: resident, and his fellow officers in Kympton, and rush chairman, David
Convention than there will be posi-| P . : . . ~ . :
ions svailae,” , clude Drew Thomas, vice-president MOCK OAS SPEAKER Frankstone TODAY—March 7
ions availaDle .
i ' hat Billy Brumback, secretary John Ambler Moss, special assistant to Bob Enizminger will be next year’s} $00 p.m.—Chemisiry seminar. Senior chemistry major John E. Passavani
SSC . “Apia ‘ tt . . ‘ ”
Kessler * == ~~ un Mat Thomas, treasurer; and Billy Bauer, the American Ambassador to the SPE president. with a cabinet com- (K.0.W.) will speak on “Chemistry as Seen From a Distance.
i scretariat. the ypel : . - . ian ae ‘
most Me I 4 ecrel ; I bt by issisianl ifeasure! Organization of American States, will) posed of Jon Lynn, vice-president: Howe Hall, 401. Tea at 4:30, Howe Hall, 402.
hierarchy, wi ap sos Of those WhO! ‘tn the KA house Larry Honig is speak in duPont Auditorium on Mon- Bill McCullough, controller: Bruce
e o . “nt — :
be oe ag fo e Conven a the new president. with Walter Bev- day. March 11. at 7:30 p.m. He is’ Derrick. corresponding secretary; and TOMORROW—March 8
5 4 sculive ynimiiitee will ; . . aseentaw ,
aan ie i a ; . ce ri "erly at the posts of both vice president sponsored by the Model Inter-Ameri- Van Pate, recording secretary ; &:00 p.m.—Concert by the University of Pennsylvania Singers and WA&l
s t 7 ywiSG st it . ' < - é
Most ae : ( satiate a _ = nd rush chairman. Kevin Baker is can Conference of the OAS and the \t the ZBI house, Ronnie Sklar | Glee Club, Lee Chapel
al ihe mveniion trom in ‘ ‘ ‘ . : . . . . . niech. | o . .
ch a . a a a 7 *' the secretary Washington and Lee Young Republi- is the new president, Henry Fleisch-! 2:90 p.m.—Blue Ridge Section of the American Chemical Society presents
> region, airme ‘ . . ae oes ia . : ? :
" r ‘ a oe oe , Randy Reed is the new Kappa Sig cans Club. His speech will start the man is the vice-president, Peter Bes- Dr. Daniel Banes, Director of Division of Pharmaceutical
\pplications for regional chairmen head: with Bill Rector, vice-president: Mock OAS activities to begin neat son is treasurr, and Walter Sales is Sciences, FDA, HEW. He will speak on “Psychedelic Drugs-
(Continued on page 4) Henry Hills, secretary: Jeff Davis ek the newly elected secretary Ancient and Modern.” Howe Hall, 311. Public invited
TUESDAY—March 11
=" 7:30 p.m.—Speech by Ambler Moss, Special Assistant to the American
I } } anne QO u u W Ambassador to the Organization of American States. duPont
Auditorium
By ROGER MUNSICK will provide ipproximateiy 60,000 Edwin (Cy) Twombly, who will retire though WAL has nol provided athletic WEDNESDAY—March 12
Washington and Lee's athletic pro feet for physical education in Ap ws a sifong positive in- scholarships since 1954, about one-| g.gg p.m.—Faculty Discussion Club meeting. Evans Dining Hall
ram can anticipate further erowth nd for indoor practice of fluence on the University’s athletic third of the undergraduates partici 8:30 p.m.—Troubadour Theatre presents Van Itallie's “America Hurrah
bra ‘ a 4 alt Fil g : : ° H.
th a f | oo fler the announ calli A & mO nis POlic s. He also ¢ pressed confidence pate in intercollegiate athletics. On ( through March 15)
pt the a - ‘ : ft the | as pe structure has no that Corrigan can “build successfully the intramural level, roughly 80° of
, sarlier i he week o rm Un : :
—_ earlier in the week ¢ . oa eied du pendit on od program th ic will University’s total enrollment are THURSDAY—March 13
versily § intention to constrict Doin an ; “ ‘ . : . ‘
widition to Doremus Gym and a ©“"°™" oF &™ direction of other find her: clive 30 p.m.—Department of Journalism and Communications (film course)
AUC i¢ i yi ‘ - Suan . oon . all Sar o ' ; -
ee ae - « te to be designated campus expansion. The new strucitu 1h f c cw Ml Frank Parsons issislant {to screens “Forbidden Games” (Clement). Reid Hall, 203. No charge
eldnouse al a sile lo De designi ' aS i resident tl . *. ;
= is expected to house new locker facili- fo uden Presidemt Huntley, stated that the ad-| 4.36 p.m.—Troubadour Theatre presents Van Itallie’s “America Hurrah
— p ‘ Rot ER lies for phy il education and inter rle n athieclics wa ministration is keenly aware of the
ver ‘4 *sHichil scTti =
H ( a ’ ; eee % ' : ” ' i. ‘ y | ouehou } nereased presence of women on FRIDAY —March 14
untiey who fevciuict ihe Plifs i — hi si a - « . :
Lalas announcement with Dr. Muster n prop nent. “I know of f ) id campus, through the upcoming ex 00 p.m.—-Model Organization of American States, Keynote speech from
i; : ‘ eee u : a > : _—— = = . i girl < . .
tale at ten Besed af Semen o ded « with i Hy etic facil inge programs with girls schols 00-8:00 p.m., first plenary session from 8:00-11:30 p.m l ibrary
. r - wal ae — vf Cene ( It Is of such new athletic facilities are being Gallery
iefied he « aimeiic Program is : tent heads luenriniad th thi . % . sle . : ‘
ai Sk dine ts Gin ee ts ce ke dire Pre " Hun afent body reprinted with this new student ele-} yy, p.m.—-Troubadour Theatre presents Van HMallie’s “America Hurrah
COME ‘a ‘ ; ' ' ; ley praised oulgoir th ditector Washi nd Lee Al ent firmly in mind *.
| serves 7 Acaiis Oo air =Sillucnis
whether at the intercollegiate, intro :
mural, or physical education level cad
a
He continued to say that the Uni a i
versity “intended to provide more — nh
. —_
modern and adequate physical facil : = ~ : — =
es as rapidly as possible —_ —— ae ee eS ee Sey de 2 ee Se a a o—-. | _—— - me
Ihe new Doremus addition liv it | | : j f
wy sifticitife, will ‘ wiih the i i i | =
' ' i
n the back and extended into = i - 2 ‘ i 4 2 i | i { 4
: : i i i ;
current parking area Upon the ‘ 7 } i am = ‘h =
y win compiction the present .. ; i = 2: : i « + eee }
a ee a —— Se eee ein . ieee — a
n floor spa ’ ‘ ee = : i uit . i at
doubled. The win will b f } ee —— — Wt it
highlighted | _) is. he |! I 4 ms 2 eo
widing two courts for physical ed [cousmamees | cap 2c a Fare hme | annghrteotiite AL td thi)
nid : f : i - re — omen ——————————EEESS = 4
j q j . so i |
' | 1
mi n | 3 " ' |
i — a “ ee a ee eee ——— a ee oc Se a a === eae
4 — oo —_ =
fn i _— Be ate = eee ee — =< oe ~
tn x i 1 emtied
wrestling ng gue SiG chits haan ey fl
n “ : a ht Bes ewe oes | ae
' far offi i
j “ i i f Ht | | '
“ = — “ anh L i
i net ff — a ss acinselel LF + i —
u . : “ = > ee
loo iy be emp i ——— ——————
‘ ' i dicaion | “= ———
i ip i Hh EXPANDED GYM includes five stories of physical facilities. Large rooms in iop ecenter are new baskethall courts, with practice areas beneath them. Present structure shown af right
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Admissions: A Talk With The Dean

(Editor’s Note: The following interview
consists of excerpts from a conversation the
Friday Ring-tum Phi had with Dean Far-
rar on February 25. We wish to thank
Dean Farrar for his time and considera-
tion in order that this interview could be
possible. )

Ring-tum Phi—To begin with, Dean Farrar,
what do you think the basic problems are for
our Board of Admissions at this point?

is now male, I can’t say. I’ve spent all fall ®

and winter trying to determine this. Some
of the colleges say that the evidence is over-
whemling that young people prefer a coeduca-
tional institution. The evidence I’ve found
does not indicate that it is overwhelming.

But what effect this will have on the future
of recruiting, I can’t say. It’s bound to have
some effect if this trend is continuing. We
may get some indication on the number of

New Trends in Admissions

(Editor’s Note: The figures shown be-
low are a comparison between the number
of students going to college nationwide and
the number that have applied to Washing-
ton and Lee for admissions. Also of note
is the percentage of students in the nation

going to public and private institutions of
higher learning, as compared with the num-
ber of applicants to W&L. All figures
shown beyond 1968 are projections pre-
pared by the College Entrance Examina-

tion Board and the Office of H.E.W.)

 

Dean Farrar—As far as an independent col- ™¢? who went We OF don’t want us; we National W&L
lege is concerned—and this is what we’re will determine this by early summer, prob- Total oe toe De ie
talking about in relation to Washington and ably, through a questionnaire we're sending College Going to Going to
Lee—the trend that is the overriding concern OF FO all those people who applied. Freshman Public Private No. No —
for this kind of institution is the very strong But it seems to me that there are three Year —_ Enrollments Institutions Institutions Appls. Enrolled Public-Private
trend now of economics as a college-going ™ajor factors: the large university complex,
decision. And this has meant that more stu- the economic factor, and the co-ed factor. 1955 670,000 60 40 736 290 52-48
dents are going on to a public institution, R-t Phi—Doesn’t it seem conceivable, though, 1956 856 305 49.5]
basically because of finance. The figures on that we would have to move to coeducation 1957 955 302 57-43
this bear this problem out. as tuition rises and as applications fall—in 1958 1117 313 54-46
In 1955, 60 per cent of the students going order to keep our students at the high caliber ee 1112 327 55-45
on to college were going to public schools. which we have at present? 196% 923,000 63 37 1262 325 95-45
What's happening is that the public school Farrar—I would say that this is highly prob- ash 1252 319 55-45
enrollment has been increasing steadily since able if the preference is going to be over- ° 1332 334 99-41
then. Now as far as our situation is concerned, whelming for a coeducational institution. I’m 1963 1268 339 56-44
our peak year was in 1965. 1599 applied to "0 really convinced of this. 1964 1480 340 60-40
us for entrance in that year. Since then, I R-t Phi—Getting back to our admissions 1969 1,445,000 69 31 1599 346 69-31
guess after 1966 really, we’ve dropped stead- policy. How would you characterize our pres- 1966 1,430,000 69 31 1421 366 70-30
ily. Now where our great, great competition is Mt recruiting system? : , 1,740,000 70 70 1301 364 66-34
coming from is the public institution. Farrar—Well, by literature, you're not re- 1968 1,470,000 70 30 1153 362 68-32
For 1969, we’te about 1160. We're there cruiting, but what you do, you have mail- 1969 1,598,000 71 =
right now and it might even get up as high as ing lists—thousands of them. We send each oe 1,676,000 = ~
1175 or so. But my point and my concern of these schools 7 catalog; and when a boy ae aes a =
i 2 dent inew choler we of bes OS send him the catalog along with wre 1,816,000 ? -
to keep up with the national trends. In 1975, our new pamphlet, which we also use on col- aaa ee = =
close to 75 per cent of your college-going lege nights. 197 ‘es pit ?
Then you have your actual off-campus ? 1,990,000 73 27

group will be going to public institutions. And
this springs from economics as a college-going
factor. So this is number one.

WeL is basically a rich man’s school.
Whether or not we like it, it is. The expense
to come here, the environment here, your
social needs, the traveling to the girl’s schools,
etc. So, there are three really major con-
cerns, it seems to me, as it reflects recruting
of students for the private institution. One,
the economic factor. Another factor, the large
multi-service university. Its proliferation of
curricula, greater opportunities for the man
to move into that environment and specialize
ina part ular area.

Then, thirdly, the co-ed move. I'm sure
you realize that Yale and Princeton and
Harvard have already made this move. And
l'rinity, which is close to us in size and their
fraternity system is going co-ed. Then Frank-
lin and Marshall, Wesleyan, Sewanee, Col-
gate, and several others. Kingman Brewster
started this and I think perhaps panicked the
others.

Colleges seem to list two major reasons.
The coeducation factor, if you're totally di-
verse. Then you have the reason that col-
leges are really hard pressed for top students.
Princeton frankly said that they felt they
weren't getting their share of good students
and if the trend was to co-ed, then they
wanted to do it. Not only to get the top
female students, but the top male students
as well who felt that coeducation is beneficial.

This is definitely coming on fast. To what
degree this is a factor and what impact it has
or will have on Washingtor and Lee which

f

 

visit which, until this year, has been limited.
This year, Dean John’s travel, my travel, and
now a third member, Dean Schildt, who is
an assistant director of admissions, is greatly
increased.

R-t Phi—lIs this a permanent position?
Farrar—Oh, yes—and I hope permanently
would mean forever! So, we now have, in
effect, three people with certain limitations
on time—Dean John’s teaching and financial
aid, which is a full-time job. We really have
two full-time admissions people and this year,
for instance we were able to double our travel
to guidance counselors and to people.

 

A present, urgent need is another member,
and we're investigating this. There are lots of
possibilities for that—he might be a recent
graduate who would spend one or two years
here, primarily on the road. Although this
year has been a definite improvement, it’s
still sub-par.

Let’s talk about this in relation to the under-
priviledged man from the disadvantaged eco-
nomic and social circumstances. You have
to seek these people out——you have to go to
the guidance people and say that we're in-
terested in them. Then you go to the man
and say that we're interested in them. Then
you go to the man and say that we're private
and expensive but, we can help everyone we
offer admissions to, unfortunately, the kind
of aid we offer is basically scholarship grant
and loan, which is a pretty unattractive pack-
age particularly for the disadvantaged child—
black or white.

R-t Phi—What are the chances that the new

ee

member of the admissions office will be
Negro?

Farrar—There is no reason why a Negro
couldn’t join the staff. But I don’t feel we
need a Negro in the admissions office just
to show perspective Negro and underprivileg-
ed high school students we want them to come
to W&L. We are now going out of our way
to get them interested in W&L.

What we have to do is not only tell them
about the outstanding educational opportuni-
ties here, but that we can help. Here, you
come to the primary need as far as admissions
is concerned, a greatly increased program of
student financial aid for the man who has
total need. For the man who borrows over
50 per cent of his money here over four
years, that adds up to a large sum of money
more than the government allows. What we
need to do is to be able to offer to these
men a significantly larger amount of grant

 

assistance,

I think it’s important that any college
particularly a private college—has to make
itself available to students who can do the
work. This is my paramount, number one
concern.

R-t Phi—Where can we get these grants
from? From alumni or what?
Farrar—From alumni, from parents, from

people who are concerned with the private
institution. As it affects recruiting, it is a
particular need as it pertains to our strength-
ening and going out and making this institu-
tion available to all youngsters. My concern
is that now we have a disproportionately
not that the lending
but I think it should

be a smallet portion, This is where vou hurt

high amount of loans
principle is not sound

in getting students, because they look to the
large university for its smaller expenses and
larger proportions of grants available.
Another problem is that you're talking to
a miniscule number of people that are qualified
to do the work. Add to that fact that you're
competing with other universities for this
small percentage, and you ve got a problem
on your hands
Ra Phi

able to utilize more of our resources here.

Don't vou think that we might be

such as organizing student groups a5 well as
alumni to go out and recruit?
Farrar As far as students recruiting, we
have tried it. But what you run into when
you get with the students is the problem ot
travel from here students cant leave the
school because of their classroom commit
ments

Then, as far as direct school visits go, we
have slumni in sevet al ifeas who yet peopl
interested in the school, and I think we can

increase this But the school guidance ofhics

Is interested in seeing some representative
from the admissions office. They want to talk
detail—they’re happy to see alumni and stu-
dents, but they can’t tell them what they
need to know.

R-t Phi—But isn’t the problem getting the
interest of the students in high school?
Farrar—Yes, I quite agree. But I can’t see
where it can be done feasibly and well. I’m
not saying it can’t be done. Certainly, the
more you visit, the more people you send,
the better chance you have of the schools’
remembering you. It’s sort of like market-
ing—the more you put your product on the
shelf, the more people will remember it. Vil
say it’s hard to work—-but I do think we can
increase the use of alumni more as a means
of identification.

R-t Phi—Who would be able to organize more

 

alumni groups in order that our name might

be known more than it is now?
Farrar—Well, in the cities, we'd need to work
with the president of an alumni group to get
a person who's interested in doing this kind
of work He would be the liason with the
alumni group and would have three or four
men helping him.

Rt Phi So with all thie ‘ probl ms in mind,
do you find that recruiting is made harder bs
what the school lack ‘.
Farrar Yes, as I say, igain we re talking
ibout funds for 1id, curriculum. more intense
recruiting I'm torgetting co-ed now yg
caus that s something that ha to by ful lied
before ny decision is reached A| these tac
fors will need to bye reviews: | ind \ ishing

i | ’ j i
ton an ee posiion on thicm made cieat

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday

Friday, March 7, 1969

A Not-So-Rash Statement

Washington and Lee University must be-
come a coeducational institution within the
next few years if it is to retain its identity as
a ranking academic college.

Now, before anyone yells at us for mak-
ing such a rash statement, allow us to ex-
plain three reasons for this.

First of all, we believe women are beneficial
elements in the classroom. Many students at
WeL say they would not be as candid in
class if women were present. They believe
women would be distracting and would de-
tract from the informality of class. According
to professors who have taught at coed schools,
nothing could be farther from the truth. These
professors say that in classes with women,
discussions are more lively and perceptive. It
is as if the women are in direct competition
with the men and wish to show them up. At
the same time, the feminine point of view
can be highly enlightening in many subjects.
(These same professors also note that apathy
inside and outside of the classrooms of coed
schools is at a minimum.)

A second reason for going coeducational
is so the university can survive financially as
a high academic school. As the table of
statistics on page 2 indicates, fewer and fewer
students are electing to go to private colleges
and universities. The trend for the future
shows this will not change. As Dean of Ad-
missions, James D. Farrar, pointed out in the
interview, the main reason for this is eco-
nomics.

The question is, “How can W&L attract
the declining percentages of students who
want to attend private colleges, and, at the
same time, combat the rising costs of attend-
ing a private college?”

The first answer to this question would be
to accept more students into the freshman
class. This may slow the rising tuition costs
since the increased revenues from the enlarg-
ed student body may offset increasing ex-
penses. This has been done at W&L (W&L’s
entering class of 1965 was 346, In 1968 it
was 362.) and still the tuition rises every year.
In fact, the Self-Study Report of 1964-66
states, “". . . the University could not now, or
probably in the immediate future, significantly
increase the size of its freshman class and
maintain the same general academic caliber
of recent entering classes.”

Another solution might be to increase h-
nancial aid programs to students to reduce
their expenses while attending Washington
and Lee. This is a dire necessity, as stated in
the Self-Study Report: “Without an adequate
program, less qualified students must be ac-
cepted for admission because funds are not
available for those better qualified applicants
who simply cannot pay the cost of an under-

Red Front Gro.

 

 

 

 

The Country Kitchen
reads, Cakes, Pastries
S-inch Decorated Cake $3.00
S-inch Just Teed $2.00
PHONE 463-5691

 

 

|
l
|
'

 

mn

 FRANK’S

(Intersection of
Williamson Rd, and Rt, 11)

Hollins, Va.

 

graduate education. The quality of the student
body and the standards of the University are
thus raised by the financial aid program; a
greater diversity of student, social, economic,
ethnic, and geographic backgrounds also is
made possible.”

At this time, as pointed out by Dean Farrar,
the University’s financial aid program is in-
adequate. Whereas W&L has made great
progress in its program of financial aid to
needy students in recent years (financial as-
sistance rose from $148,419 awarded to 19.5
per cent of the student body in 1960-61 to
approximately $400,00 awarded to 22 per
cent of the student body in 1968-69), it
still falls short of making this school avail-
able to all qualified students, regardless of
financial circumstances. Even if resources
were obtained to aid students here, the ex-
pense of the social environment would con-
tinue to make the school prohibitive to many
prospective students.

The point we are trying to make is that
W&L is hurting itself by restricting its student
body to just men, and rich ones at that. By

expanding the student body to include wo-

men, part of this problem could be solved
since we would be drawing from all of those
men and women interested in attending pri-
vate schools,

The third reason Washington and Lee
should become coeducational is to raise its aca-
demic standards. An indication of the decreas-
ing excellence here is evidenced by the aver-
age verbal scores of the Scholastic Aptitude
Tests. These scores, though not absolute in-
dicators, are the best means for predicting a
prospective student’s college grades. In 1965
the mean verbal score was 608. (The mean
math score was 643.) In 1968 the entering
class’s verbal mean was 582. (The mean math
score was 616.)

Thus, a condition exists in which W&L
is accepting more and more students each
year from a diminishing number of appli-
cants and ending up with less strong aca-
demic qualifications as reflected by scores.

The way to end these diminishing standards
is to recognize, as did Princeton, that we are
not getting our share of good students. By
becoming coed, W&L will place itself in a
position to get not only the top male students,
but also the top female students.

For these three reasons, we believe W&L
should now think seriously about coeducation.
The main argument we hear against this move
is that W&L will “lose its identity” as a small,
highly academic, men’s school. However we
strongly feel the University will lose its ident-

ity if it submits itself to being satisfied with ac- |

cepting students of lower academic excellence
just because it refuses to go coeducational.

 

a ee —

 

 

LEXINGTON
ABC LICENSE 2269 OFF Bring the Hollins CLEANERS
rood — ICE 5 :
on N. Main 1] Road Team to 1 Hour Dry Cleaning

Complete Shirt Service

 

 

 

STUD

 

 

 

 

On Becoming Aware

Of “The Other Side”

To the editor of the Friday
Ring-tum Phi:

It is indeed encouraging to see the
Friday edition of the Ring-tum Phi
take a stand where it is needed, To
grow as human beings we must see
and try to feel conditions on “the
other side’—not only in Lexington,
but everywhere.

Let me also say: there is no reason
that misery should be the price of
artistic accomplishment, but when-
ever misery is the price, our choice
should be clear. There are already
too many reasons for justifying our
apathy and our unconcern, Let us
not add art to this dreary list.

Sincerely,
Westbrook Barritt,
Professor of Romance Languages

 

Dear Sir:

My congratulations on your ex-
cellent article, “The Other Side of
Lexington.” Prerequisite to solving
the very real social and economic
problems of Lexington which you
point out is becoming aware of them.
rhis is something | fear few Wash-
ington and Lee students and faculty
accomplish,

1 would hope most readers con-
sidered the article with more care
and sympahy than did the writer
of the unsigned letter entitled, “Baffil-
ing Outburst,” which appeared in the
Tuesday Ring-tum Phi, | fail to see
where art, beauty, and at least an
approximation of social and economic
| equality are necessarily incompatible
in this century.
| Neither can I sympathize with the
view that since poverty has always
, existed, and will continue to do so,
'we should forget about its extent
and injustice and get on with our
'“cultural” contributions. Am I to
assume that a glance into a reality
|as meaningful as that taught in our
/classrooms will so incapacitate the
| typical Ring-tum Phi reader so that
‘he can no longer write his books,
paint his paintings, and otherwise
enhance our culture? I doubt it!

Moreover, | doubt if many under-
graduates here would contend that

 

 

 

Letters To The Editor

they represent America’s “cultural
clite.” What they do represent is an
intelligent, economically well off
segment of American society which
enjoys a good life—a good life from
which a sizable segment of America
is barred by virtue of color and/or
lack of means.

In the final analysis then, maybe
this is all the original essay meant to
contend. Washington and Lee “gentle-
men” should indeed realize how for-
tunate they are, at the minimum
should appreciate it, and better yet
might even be inclined to help as-
sure “the other side of Lexington”
an equal chance at the good life
they enjoy.

Sincerely yours,

Frederic L. Schwab

Assistant Professor

Department of
Geology

Phys. Ed. Is Important

This letter is intended to take the
opposite point of view from the one
stated in the February 21 edition of
the Friday Ring-tum Phi calling for
the end of P.E. at W&L.

I take exception to Mr. Maneval’s
statement that there is not a mind
among the “sound-body” people of
the gym. I consider this an insult
to our P.E. instructors who are mem-
bers of this faculty and deserve to
be respected as such. The minds of
these gentlemen are just as sound as
their bodies.

I don't think P.E. students are
reduced to the status of forced labor-
ers as Mr. Maneval claims. All the
P.E. department asks of the student

    

is to come to class and participate.
What's so hard about that?

I disagree that sports such as soccer
and tumbling are completely useless.
They help the student get in shape
to a certain extent. Mr, Maneval fails
to mention the emphasis placed on
running in P.E. class. There is no
better conditioner,

Mr. Maneval states that one can
easily pick up sports like golf and
bowling if he has the interest. Often,
I think, it takes a P.E. program to
instill the interest. | know that P.EB.
class has interested many students in
handball, a sport they knew nothing
about before coming to W&L.

Mr, Maneval asks, “what affect does
P.E. have upon a student in his
academic work?” My answer is that
it helps academic work. The more
physically fit a person is, the more
mentally fit he is. If a person is in
good shape physically, he is better
able to cope with his academic and
personal problems. I realize I'm bas-
ing my answer on personal experience
rather than scientific proof, but 1
think many people would agree with
me.

Mr. Maneval is wrong in think-
ing that the athletic interests of the
W&L student range from none to
moderate. Many students are highly
interested in athletics both as partici-
pants and spectators.

Mr. Maneval may be interested in
knowing that some of the people
whom he would consider our “sound-
mind” men practice physical fitness.
These gentlemen may be seen play-
ing handball or running around the
track in Doremus on weekdays at
the noon hour,

 

Dave Haydu '70

 

NEIL S. KESSLER
Editor-in-Chief

Che Friday Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesdays and Fridays during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879.

Subscription rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

GLENN R. MOORE
Business Manager

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* = Pee bb be bebe bbb bee he eho oe fe ole oho ole oe oe whe oho oe fe fe ole ole ae fo ale of ofp
3 The Pizza C $\¢ $|% +
: e Pizza Center $
: ; : $ IDEAL +|/$  Tolley’s Pharmacy $
+ + *
: DOC’S $\¢ Barber Shop %| LL West Washington St
. . es Lar Lexington, Va. +
® ABC Os-08 | QUICK SERVICE $\3 PHONE 463-2211 z
Hameic and Sherida toneroosooooooores| (— ;
an n 3
JEWELERS + Ss
eeieiaareets ROCKBRIDGE || KENNEY
Hand Engraving and Class Rings *
ad LAUNDRY & $||_ OF LEXINGTON
ataneshdideeertniemmanteal CLEANERS t Home of the Big K
Sooo oeeereee ; $ SPECIAL PRICE FOR
Try Our Fluff Dry Service LARGE ORDERS
= HICKMAN’S ESSO _. -. $i) _ CHICKEN FoR
= a - $ PARTIES & PICNICS
| SOU 463-3141 * 463-5730
LUTE TEED EOE E EERO EE PEEEEPEEEEEETEE EE EEE 3

 

East Lexington
| Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Open 7 Days A Week

8 a.m.-10 p.m.
ABC 2078 OFF

 

 

 

ENTS!

 

 

   
  

® DRY CLEANING

* LAUNDRY

® SHIRT SERVICE

® ONE HOUR
SERVICE

 

 

 

 

MARTINIZING

 

 

 

. .
: :
. .
: :
: :
3|8 | ) : |
: An Exhibition of : : Moke this your heetquerters for Good Food : quits waite LEE MOFFATT = BILL ROGERS
: M O N O Pp R I N 7, S : : and Service : Have Your Summer Clothes Cleaned and Stored for The Winter,  ¢
: by RAY PROHASKA 23 : :
: :: We | 1 ticket ° One nour °
: $25 each 3 e have meal tickets at savings to you Nl AATINIZING ;
$ Washington and Lee University 33 Southern Inn : et most WW DAY CLLAMINO :
: Bookstore : : : : Lexington Shopping Park :
ssseansesuessonssessssnsssosssessentsssassensssonssnssonsesonsssssssssssosssesssutepsnseetssousssusenssonsssousssusssbatsstssocessostsecssnsssnesints
: Nelson Street THE os °
. ive- ce °
iin FIRST NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK Or South Min §
: SHH HERRERO EEE EE | — :
 

 

Page 4

THE RING-

TUM PHI

 

 

tala cil ln ts 4c nana

 

a= ie,

KENNETH BEER’S exhibit of novel artistic structures, now on display in
duPont Hall, includes this horse and rider, Mr. Beer teaches art at Madison

Abstract Sculptor Kenneth Beer
Currently Exhibiting In duPont

By LEX McMILLAN

Even the most unobservant student
who happens to enter duPont Hall
this week will notice some very eye-
catching structures in the exhibition
room. Now being shown col-
lection of the works of Kenneth Beer,
a creator of thought provoking pieces
ol sculpture.

Mr. Beer is now a teacher of art
at Madison College in Harrisonburg.
He has been working there since
1962. He is married, around 35 years

is a

old and has three children. Out of
this apparently very usual family
structure comes some very unusual

artistic structures. Prior to coming to
Madison Mr. Beer worked in Detroit
as a Styling Engineer and did con-
siderable work on the design of the

Stringray. He also worked in dif-
ferent private art institutions in
Detroit.

His works vary in size and even
more in price. The smallest object

displayed is about one foot and con-
trasis to the largest which is about

RARE ES

PRL-SAT, MARCH 7-8

 

 
    
  
  
 
    
  

  
 

JEAN-PAUL
BELMONDO
FRANCOISE
DORLEAC
JEAN
SERVAIS

“THAT MAN
ran

 

Someta

Crsitovied by LOPLAT PICTURES CORPORATION

 

 

SUN.-MON,-TUES.,
MARCH 9-10-11

“o
few

2 @ |
A

suquear
bergman

~-

INGMAR BERGMANS
Persona

Bl ANDERSSON / LIV ULLMANN

SSUTEO BY LOPERT Px tUMts COMPQRanON

 

An Editorial

 

The position of athletics today at
Washington and Lee seems to be
precarious, Since our football scand-
als of the 'S0’s, we have seen a
de-emphasis on athletics—-a de-em-
phasis which has been much greater
than expected,

Coaches, too, are disturbed about
this because it has reached the point
where athletics have become an ob-
ject of student apathy. Without
scholarships we cannot hope to get
the quality of players we once had.
But with an atmosphere surrounding
athletics such as we have here, it
gets even more difficult to woo good
players of any kind,

The students are not the only ones
who are guilty of this apathy, how-
ever. Many faculty members discour-
age students from participating in
athletics, feeling it takes away from
study time. Some will not make al-
lowances for students’ academic work
when they leave on athletic trips.
his should be corrected, although it

of the minds here.

The expense of the student at the
University has grown immensely, to
the point where some sort of schol-
i arship aid is essential for over 20%

is a very hard thing to change some |

of the students, Don’t get us wrong— |

Athletics Need A Boost

director, has done an excellent job
with what he has to work,

Finances are too stringent, and this
may be the cause of other mal-
functions. For example, coaches are
not subsidized when they want to go
to a national conference. This also
contributes to dissatisfaction among
the coaches, along with the lack of
equipment, facilities and the like. The
new gym will help to alleviate at least
some of these problems if no further
financial restrictions are imposed
along with it.

Another field that needs improve-
ment is the University Committee on
Inter-Collegiate Athletics. According
to a two-year student member of the
committee, it has done nothing in
the past two years except to pass on
monogram winners,

There are other things that should
be reviewed, such as the number of
hours allowed to teams for travel.
Revisions should be made in the
method of determining these hours.
At present a team is given a certain
‘number of study hours that it can
be away from the University (that
is, a8 Opposed to class hours). Perhaps

 

|} a better system would be to simply
| count

class hours that the students
would be absent, especially since there
are no more Saturday classes,

fifteen feet long and stretches the | we are not advocating a return tO} Perhaps the faculty members of
distance across the room, hung per-| athletic scholarships, but just making| the committee could also help in
pendicular to one wall, a fact known: unless our athletic | gaining faculty support for student

The price range is from fifty to} program is well-financed and well-| athletes. We admit that a certain

twelve hundred dollars. The most ex-| planned, we cannot hope to get the

burden falls on the student to show

   

THB

Faculty Joins in

By MIKE HOSFORD

RING-TUM PHI

    

I-M Basketball

, Of time (guess you could call it a

Thursday night’s faculty basketball} real cliff-hanger), as the Animals won

game with the Phi Psi’s was an un-
welcome change from farcical play
of the previous week. This was the
third game the faculty has played.
On Tuesday night the “game of
the year” pitted the Phi Delt “Ani-
mals” against the Faculty “Has-Beens”
in their second outing. The game
turned out to be simply a difference
of age and strength. The faculty,
plagued with sickness and_ injuries,
took a while to get loosened up as

 

the “Animals” scored a quick

(There has been speculation that our
favorite referee, Chuck Freret, was|
masterminding a plot against the|
faculty, making sure of course that
none of them taught his courses.) |

ten!
points to none for the “Has-Beens.” |

Sanford,

by two points.
This seemed to be a repeat per-
formance of the previous Tuesday's

| game against the Phi Kap’s, which

the Faculty also dropped by two
points. However, this time their bas-
ket at the buzzer was good, except

the referee (again none other than
Chuck Freret) ruled that the shot
was after the buzzer, and the Phi

Kap’s were judged the winners.
Coach Jim Loesel of the Faculty
seems to be generally pleased with
the quality of play, especially among
his “Has-Beens.” Of great help have
been “Wrong-Way” Joe Lyles and
his thirty foot set shots, 66” Rob
the local Baptist student
minister; Big Bart Taylor, up from

With all of these factors working | the law school; Major Robert Kauff-
against them, the faculty still man-| man of the ROTC department, who
aged to recover to a five point deficit) has been valuable in softening up
at half-time, although they had closed | !he opposition with a few well-placed

pensive piece is recognizable as a
horse and rider but is endowed with
some accessories which make it a
little more than just that. This horse
and rider work is quite large and is
one of Mr. Beer’s early works.

An awareness of the different
work’s chronological order shows an
interesting progression in the style of
the artist. Even casual observers can
see a marked difference in style in the
works. In talking with Mr. David
Hall of the art department one finds
that Mr. Beer's works have grown
continually more abstract.

The old question of: “What it is?”
is really not applicable to his later
works. Much of his material is just
odds and ends from junk yards. His
inspiration comes greatly from those
very pieces of junk. He creates his
ari mainly for the enjoyment of
blending entirely dissimilar objects
into a balanced “thing.”

Mr. Hall explained that the move
today toward the abstract can be
said to be tracable simply to the joy
of shapes and forms. There is a
stigma on visual arts that has re-
quired them to be a representation or
copy of something. The move toward
abstraction is parralleled to music.
Music is not required to be anything
more than just what it is and
appreciated for its aesthetic value.

The work of Kenneth Beer are en-

is

talent we need.

One area that does hurt our athletic
program is finances. As a private uni-
versity, we do not enjoy the luxury
of unlimited funds, but, it seems that
there should be more money made
available to the athletic department.
Many students complain that not
enough athletic equipment is made
available to them or their teams. We
wish to say that the equipment we
do have must be guarded closely
because it is financially hard to re-
place. Coach Miller, as

Following strong showings in ping
pong and handball, Sigma Phi Epsilon
has taken the lead in the WA&L
intramural program. With a total of
654, SPE has a slim 13 point lead
over Phi Kappa Sigma.

Next in line is Sigma Nu with 614
points, followed by ZBI with 581,
Sigma Chi at 575, the Betas with 572,
the Delts with 570, Pi Phi at 537,
Delta Upsilon at 519, and the Phi
Delts rounding out the top ten with
501 points.

There were some radical changes
from the time of the last totaling.
The SPE’s climbed from fourth with
| a first in ping pong and a second in

 

joyable to look at and the observer| handball. Jumping four notches to

is invited to see anything he wants

 

should
| region

 

 

| CENTRAL LUNCH
| TRY OUR FAMOUS
Swiss Burgers
Serving Food and Beverages
| A Wide Variety of Domestic
| and Imported Beer Served
and Delivered

TELEPHONE 463.2834

 

 

in the abstractions.

Applications Sought

(Continued from Page 1)

include political experience,
preferred, contacts in the
Democratic Party, and a short state-
ment of what the applicant thinks the
Convention has done, and can do in
the future. Kessler asserted that a
lack of experience or contacts should
not cause an interested freshman not

to apply.
Applications should be sent to
Kessler at 800 McCorkle Drive in

Lexington before March 20.

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

fourth from eighth was ZBT, sparked
| by a third in ping pong. The Pi Phis
| made their annual assault on the top

 

| NOTICE
|

The Social function at the Sigma
Nu Fraternity this Saturday is open

only to members and their dates.

 

 

B & F LUNCH

463-6202
Serving Food and Beverages

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 8. MAIN ST.
Phone 463-4121

 

 

 

Radio .
| Hospital

Sales and Service
Radio, TV, Appliances

 

 

 

|

 

 

witht |.
Kraut Kelish

Heritage House Inn and Restaurant
in the Mayflower Hotel
Offers You “Glen Maury’ Steaks

And The Double H Burger
LB. GROUND SIRLOIN

and Hot Pepper
for only $1.50

Open All Day Sunday
COO OOe PE CEEEEECEEE OOOO OOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOEOOO OS HHTEEEESEEEEEESEEEEESSESOEOESEESESESESSESEEEEEOOES

463-3531
|| 14 South Randolph
|
| yo iin > lili lla ci A cas

French Fries

Keepsake Diamond Rings
Modern repair
| department

 

 

 

 

 

equipment! at times, our academics,

SPEs Now First les Seiineenninali

that he is an earnest student as well
as an athlete, but help among the
faculty is essential.

We have tried to outline what we
feel are some of the bad points about
athletics at W&L, and to propose a
few solutions (or at least some sug-
gestions) to correct these problems.
We feel that de-emphasis of athletics
is a serious mistake, and one that has
hurt the University’s name outside of
the area by making it less well-known.
It affects our recruiting, our spirit, and
J.M.H.

of the rankings, vaulting from 13th
| place to eigth. A third place in hand-
ball enabled them to climb past Delta
| Upsilon and the plummeting Phi
| Delts who fell from number one to
ten.

| Phi Kappa Sigma was the most
| consistent, holding on to second place
in the standing with fourth place
finishes in both ping pong and hand-
ball. Also among the finalists in ping
pong were the Sigma Nus, who took
| second, while the Kappa Sigs captured
' the handball title, but could not crack
into the top ten.

Basketball and bowling finals will
be in the near future, with the spring
sports, track, softball, and volleyball
also remaining to be contested.

 

 

 

Shirt Service ....
As You Like It

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
University Cleaners

 

 

 

Dian: Senses “

ROBERT E. LEE

BARBERSHOP
OPEN from 8:00-5:30

| 6% P 2 SERBS a

PES ES ESE ESSE SESE OEE SoS

.
>
NEW WOOD
708 Franklin Rd.
IN ROANOKE

Tuesday-Wednesday
ROYAL KINGS

Thursday-Sunday
VARIOUS COMBOS

Se ee ee

.
4
.
.
5
,
,
>
.
.
>
.
a
>
.
>

 

 

SESS EE SEES SSCS SES OE ESOS

EEEEEEEEEEEEEDEEEEEEEEEEEESEEEEEE ESSE SEES EEE EEOS

463-3111

gett

Down Town Lexington

Dress and Casual wear for the man about town.
Famous brand names to choose from:

McGregor and Manstyle.

the gap to two at one time.

The third quarter opened to find
that Old Age had taken over—taken
over the faculty that is. They quickly |
dropped to an 11 point deficit, The}
period was highlighted by spirited play |
among the younger members of the |
faculty, such as Mad Dog Phillips, |
who stole a rebound from 6'8” Dave |
Johnson and instilled some life into |
the play of the “Has-Beens.” ‘The
faculty soon started to run—as al
result of their panic—and this final |
blazing effort gave them a one point |
lead with three minutes remaining. |
The “Animals” called time out.

At this time the “Animals” felt |
ii was best to resort to forceful}
tactics, as they threatened to beat up
the “Has-Beens” if they showed on
the court again. However, it seems |
that certain members of the faculty
had a certain pressure of their own|
to apply—namely grades—and the |
threat was rendered impotent.

The last three minutes were a see- |
saw battle to the end and the fac-
ulty’s last second shot dropped off
the edge of the rim after what
seemed to be an unbearable length

Take A Break from
Your Studies

COME TO
White Top Restaurant

 

karate blows under the boards; and
Coach Ben Davies, who has been
able to supply the finesse.

The only real problem the faculty
seems to have is the referees, who
seem to make the = game-ending
crucial calls in favor of the students—
wonder why?

 

The Sophomore Class

Mary Baldwin
College

presents

How To Succeed in
Business
Without Really Trying
8 p.m.

March 7-8 in
KING AUDITORIUM

Tickets $1.25

 

 

 

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECE OF FURNITURE

Ves & Pole

 

 

 

PARAMOUNT

Neat to the Country Kitchen
FOUNTAIN SERVICE

LUNCHES

!

INN

Your new

boyfriend has a
new girlfriend ?

Think it over,

The Think Drink.

Over coffee.

 

 
