 

WEEKEND WEATHER

Today: continued rain and mild

Tomorrow; possibility of clearing, con
tinued mild.

Sunday: more of the same.

Che KRing-tun Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

Inauguration

Edition

 

Volume LXVIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 18, 1968

Number 9

 

Inauguration, Homecoming Share Big Weekend

Football, Parties
To Be Keynotes
Of Homecoming

Alumni and guests from all over the
country began arriving in Lexington
last night in preparation for the an-
nual Washington and Lee Homecom-
ing festivities being held this week-
end,

This year’s Homecoming, while
clearly representative of a long-stand-
ing tradition, is nonetheless enhanced
by this morning’s Inauguration of a
Washington and Lee alumnus, Robert
Edward Royall Huntley, as President
of the University.

Student participation in the activi-
ties will begin at 6:45 p.m. at the
Varsity Club Pep Rally in Red Square.
Tomorrow at 2 p.m. following alumni
registration and luncheon, the W&L
football team will seek it’s first vic-
tory of 1968 against the Tigers of
Hampden-Sydney at Wilson Field,

According to Interfraternity Coun-

cil social chairman Dave Stovall, a
PiKA from Harrisonburg, Virginia,
preparations for the weekend have

been progressing throughout the fall.
The committee designated to select
the 1968 Homecoming Queen com-
pleted preliminary judging of pictures
on Wednesday night. Tonight, after
the candidates are introduced at the
rally, the actual official judging will
take place at 8 o'clock in duPont
Hall. The eventual winner and two
runners-up will be crowned, in keep-
ing with long-standing tradition, by
Dr. J. K. Shillington during halftime
of the Saturday football game. The
commitiece judging the entrants con-
sists of Dr. Jefferson Davis Futch, Mr
John Hughes, Mr. John Jennings,
Dean William Schilt, Mr. Charles
Brockmann, Mr. James Loesel, and
Student Body President Jay Passa-
vant

Also during halftime,
award-winning fraternity
plays will be presented
will be

for
dis-

prizes
house
The decora-
judged by the Alumni
Association, which is headed by Ex
ecutive Secretary William C. Wash
burn. Judging of the houses will occur
between five and nine o'clock this
evening

Combo parties and an alumni cock-
tail party mark an end of the
official segment of the

tions

will

program

  
   
   

 

PLEDGES of the Sigma Chi House

Motto’? “Tank the Tigers.”

8:25 am. on Monday, October 21] dents cannot individual tickets ‘
and end at 1:15 p.m. that day. The} for the pse a ner Washington |. A ‘otal of 23ofteshmen had filed
general election will be held on Thuti.):canddee-studentss If this is done tor the,thre¢ cTass offiges BY TNE goad
day. Also, election amendments will] then belli parties Wilt be subject to fing Jast night, inclading six foe Ghiss
be voted on then. (See stories cls®*+jeuit’ henen.sieladon,” president, nine for vice-president, and
where on this page.) : eight for the position of freshman
Next, Dean Kumpuris made a ree? eat, wlier «healed and lengthy | fepresentauve for the Student Boody

port to other EC members on the } debate between Danny Leonard and | Executive Committee.

critical situation which the Dang | Ste¥e Saniler, the following resolution} Candidates filing for president are
Board faces every year concerning hep as Marrowly passed: Steve Dugan, Steve Hawley, PiKA;
. ~~ ; Thomas Duncan Pace, KA; John
The EC realtiems its position Reynolds, Sigma Chi: Paul’ Shuford,

By FRANK ROSE

Robert E. R. Huntley was formally
installed Washington and Lee's
twentieth president today in Doremus
Gymnasium.

as

‘ |
In his Inaugural address, Huntley

put special emphasis on the question,
“In times like these, what is the image
of Washington and Lee?”

He answered by saying, “It is the |
image of an institution which un-|
ashamedly proclaims that there is no
higher goal to which a scholar can
aspire than to be a vital teacher of |
young men, an institution which con-
fidently entrusts the largest possible |
measure of choice and freedom to its |
students and its faculty, requiring con-
formity of no one, prizing an environ-

- ment in which tolerance, integrity,
and respect for others tend to pre-|
vent misidentifying independence of

thought with lack of self-discipline or
humorless contempt.

“It is the image of an institution

Photo by Clader Which does not wish to cater to any

——*particular ethnic or economic group,

| but which seeks a diverse student

| body and faculty where members may

| share in commen Oplyethe ability and

| the conviction to learn from each

other,”

Huniley alsoaugitned future needs,
}ineluding thé *fequirement for new
} athletic facilities, the inadequacies of

-_

PRESIDENT HUNTLEY’S family and other dignitaries viewing the inaugural ceremonies from the President's Box

 

at his swearing-in ceremony this morning. ;

ne a a ae mee a ——

Approves Coach’s Memorial

EC Debates Rush, Dance Plans

By MAC BARR

 

 

entrance of students who do not; tion and as a benefit to the entire

 

: - » Pp —. ‘e ”

The first topic brought under dfs Miitilr it ces duothed bs pens walversity. i the buildings which house the Library,
cussion in the BC meeting last Tugi+)o¢ ip. bE otha ‘all’ students who do The final order of business can. | the School jof Commerce and Ad-
day night was the selection of a sult aed 2 e9aAck Piha ot hae will cerned the VASG meeting scheduled astra Oe and the School of Law.” |
able memorial for Coach Lee Me be required to sign a fist pledging that to take’ place “at Randotph*Macon “In-cecept = weeks commitments |
Laughlin. aiimave in actuals bought onl Women’s College on October 22. Rob have com@ito us of more than a}

Peter Hendricks suggested that the The following resolution was unaal- Bauer, Bill Brown, Dean Kumpuris, | half a mis yn dollars in support of
EC donate a new trophy case. THis > : 7 and Jay Passavant will atiend. improved. letic facilities.

mously drafted by ihe EC;

“Any dent’ signing the lp the mear future two important |

bequests 16, the University will be|
announced, pne of more than $120,-|

Frosh Primary 000 nat for the purpose of
To Limit Field |. ,

motion was unanimously agreed upon
by EC members, The trophy case will
cost about $500

Student Body President Jay Passi
vant announced that the primaries
for freshmen elections will begin at

cftion best resolves the important
issues of the campus community,
With this in niind, we commend
‘the proposal for a student-facully
CUltiniiitee fo explore all possibili- |

Phi Kap> and Dan Silberger, ZBI.
Freshmen seeking the office of class
vice-president include Frank Bazzel,
+Siema Na; Philip F. Calkins; Tim
Criss, Beta; David Dale, Phi Kap;

possibl i Robbic’ Faust, Delt: Tom Friedman,
potinn.nd Retagann: a Nes . Phi Ep; Tom Gillespie, KA; Chuck

it Tash -sysem. The kC respectf
= | Lee, KA, and Steve Ory.

Tacutty Consider “the
| age, of ee communica. | Candidates for freshman FC repre-

“Hom as-a-streneiioning bridge for rentals are Stan Harris, Sigma Ch
vcMlty -studemt

fon Latmour, SPE: John T. Me-
fa body communica-
~ptatthy, Lambda Chi: Tew MeMillan,

| Sama Nug Bivid W. Olson, Phi Psi;

 

 

 

 

   
     
   

 

| William C,

     

St. Clair Installs Huntley
As W&L’s 20th President

library acquisitions in the School of
Law and one of more than a half
million dollars—among the largest
bequests ever to come to Washington
and Lee—that is not specifically de
signated for a particular purpose but
may be added to the endowment in
recognition that the need for increased
operating revenues will be insistent.”

he Inauguration was held at 11:00

a.m. today, with delegates represent
ing many colleges and universities,
learned societies, and foundations at-
tending. The ceremony, originally
scheduled to be held on the front
lawn of the campus, was moved to
Doremus Gymnasium because of

rainy weather.

Chief speaker at the ceremony was
Friday, President of the

consolidated University of North

Carolina. The oath of office was ad
ministered to President Huntley by
Dr. Huston St. Clair, Rector of the

University.

Huntley, a native of Winston-Salem,
North Carolina, was graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1950. He
received his LIB. from W&L seven
years later, after serving in the U.S
Navy from 1950 to 1953.

After one year with an Alexandria
law firm, Huntley returned to W&l
as Assistant Professor of Law. In
1959 he was named Associate Profes
sor, and in 1964 Professor of Law
He served as Dean of the School of

| Law from 1967 to 1968. On February

of that
of

year he assumed the duties
President of the University.

Huntley is a member of the Ameri
can Bar Association, Phi Beta Kappa
| the Order of the Coif, Omicron Delta
Kappa, and Delta Tau Delta. His
wife is the former Evelyn White-

(Continued on Page 4)

TE Ss Asks John We Robinson, PIKAg Chuck Shu \
| fetett, KA ind Matson ¢ lerry
4 Kappa Sig \
;i Bled on Change 2 pris sdadny sit tn the!
‘ field to two candidate? fof cach offige. |
Ihe a wiki Open from #125 a.m. |
I he =: xecul we €ommittderwall hold | fo 11m The veneral cleefion wilt
aera \\ of geay, Osiober 23 at be Thursday .
wi uPond Widiterhim am a... a ¥
de restier %!
) { siulents a pro
nent Rips to Pe sgulei ody | Stugent Servite yy
mn “~~
I here ll |
aie ~~ scien es Ser So
v4 2 wars next Tuesday a 1 pm, in| ‘No priority higher than the search for truth,’
concerned =with student Newoomb Hall Photo by C lade
procedure If passed, the
ukl provide for
, : >) . — :
) be gomeated ty @ WEEKLY CALENDAR Freshman Speakers
mh \p I Pp 4 A =
he EC. A plurality of vo To Present Debate
lel for elec nom I
oday, October 18 +
H election On George Wallace
lid Ou 7 \ Club Pep } Red Sa <
— nl mini ¢ } i ih f ofl af ala fey hi hi nod Po |
( le nw b ~ I OOM . vdicl HN , ‘ . \ del ) h I
| Tr imt f po Ha Wallace lection will be held Tu
in am = 0-200 pom Jind w of ft mrt Ho ’ i | day, October 22 ft ” p '
| d r October 19 Pont Aud The two speak
rr hallo omorrow, October will he & Dusan, eseakine |
i mn" wo’ 12 iM | \ \ hi Alab i mo “ul Vi f
j wed h ry ; i lof! Puch H ppesi
fn | 1200-1 \ Luncheon. | bp H The
p J} 22000 | Foott WAl Hamy Syd MH “ }
! , 1 S00 | \ ' \ H
| “A i u ! i} i
Tuesday, October 22 rchud ‘is w
B . fi .
‘ Del } i ¢ \ . i ( 1)
' D i f pro-Wa i
a DD D \ >
ay, October 25 National (
ut work on their Homecoming divplay. | | j ; " . Friday, October ,
Photo by Clad ' nal 1:00-6:00 | Open Cocktail Pa Red Sq Wal Py 1 Wa
Page z

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Looking Back: W&L’s Past Presidential Inaugurations

By OLLINGER CRENSHAW

Professor of History and University Historian

Installation ceremonies at Washington College
emerged and developed in the first half of the nine-
teenth century but in the early years were simple oath-
taking ceremonies at which, on occasion, the new Presi-
dent, as in the case of Dr. George Junkin in 1948,
delivered a formal inaugural address.

After the Civil War, much excitement accompanied
the eleection of General Robert E. Lee, as evidenced by
the comment of the Richmond Whig: “And now that
grand old Chieftain, after but brief repose, betakes him
to as noble a work as ever engaged the attention of
men—he has accepted the presidency of Washington
College, therein, by the exercise of his genius, and by
his virtues, and his high mora! character, to inspire the
sons of his well-beloved Virginia with a taste for lit-
erature and a love for what is great and good, Long
may he preside there. May happiness and long, long
years be his.” Many a Southern newspaper and some
Northern journals as well echoed the sentiment of the
Whig. Some outside the South, however, did not. In any
event, the eyes of the world soon turned to the remote
campus of Washington College.

Villagers and college people assumed an air of
expectancy in awaiting the arrival of the great man
soon to become one of themselves. The old Washington
College buildings were refurbished, so that to one on-
looker they appeared to be “quite charming.” General
Lee reached town in time to be presented to the Board
of Trustees, introduced by Rector Brockenbrough, at
its meeting on September 20,

In consultation with General Lee, plans were drawn
up for his inauguration, scheduled for October 2, 1865,
the first day of the new session. It had been proposed to
stage the ceremonies in the College chapel, to extend
invitations throughout the nation, to provide a_ brass
band, and to have “young girls robed in white, and
bearing chaplets of flowers, to sing songs of welcome;
to have congratulatory speeches, to make it a grand
holiday.” Perhaps in other circumstances this would have
been done, but at the expressed wish of General Lee the
exercises were to be the acme of simyplicity, “an exact
and barren compliance with the required formula of
taking the oath by the new President, and nothing
more 2

On the morning of October 2 the brief, private,
unostentatious inaugural ceremonies took place in a
recitation room of the College. General Lee was escort-
ed into the room by the trustees. Also present were

Gen, Robert E. Lee (1865-1871)

faculty, students, the clergymen of Lexington, a magi
starte, and the County Clerk. Upon the appearance and
introduction of General Lee all rose, bowed, and were
seated. Judge Brockenbrough called the meeting to order,
and James K. Edmondson, Secretary of the Board of
Trustees, called the roll of that body

\ quorum being present, the Reverend Dr. William
S. White offered “an impresive and fitting” prayer, in
which he besought blessing for the President of the
United States. Judge Brockenbrough then announced
the object of the meeting. It must have been a trial to
him, bursting with pride and emotion, to have restrained
his remarks, as speeches had been prohibited: even so
the Judge approached the dignity of an eloquent ad
dress. He adverted to the seriousness as well as the

 

joyfulness of the hour, eulogized General Lee, and
congratulated the trustees and students, present and
future, on the president.

President R. E. Lee stood with folded arms, gazing
into the eyes of the speaker. Squire William White,
Justice of the Rockbridge County Court, then administ
ered the oath of office to General Lee, employing
the quaint text provided by the charter of Liberty Hall.
It enjoined that the president should administer the
institutions’ affairs without “favor, affection, or parti
ality.” General Lee signed the oath, which was turned
over to the County Clerk for perpetual safekeeping,

Son Succeeds Father

Upon the death of General R. E. Lee, the trustees
of Washington College chose as his successor his son,

 

Dr. William L. Wilson (1897-1900)

and the keys of the College were handed by the Rector
to President Lee. As customary following such cremonies,
there was handshaking, after which General Lee passed
into the room which had been assigned to his use. The
Great Era had begun.

George Washington Custis Lee, a man destined to re
main in office for twenty-seven years. The inauguration
of Custis Lee on February 6, 1871, as President of
Washington and Lee University, resembled that of his
father in dignity and simplicity. It was consummated
in the old Chapel before an audience of townspeople
and students who had braved a heavy snow storm io
witness the ceremony. The faculties of V.M.1. and of
Washington and Lee attended the induction which was
prefaced by singing, prayer, and the reading of scripture
by the Reverend Dr. Pendleton of Grace Episcopal
church

Custis Lee took the oath of office. and then de
livered a fourteen line speech of acceptance (perhaps
the shortest such address on record'), in which he asked
the co-operation of trusiees, faculty, and students

Wilson Takes Office

Washington and Lee was fortunate enough to secure
the services of William Lyne Wilson, one-time Congress
man from West Virginia, and from 1895 to 1897, mem-
ber of President Cleveland's cabinet. Leaders in the
world of business, politics, and education mingled in
good-fellowship on the campus at the inauguration
September 15, 1897. Isidor Straus of New York. the
Georgia-born merchant prince, had come to do honor
to his devoted friend Wilson, as had the former cabinet
member, Hilary A. Herbert of Alabama. The Villards
father and son, Henry H. Villard, President of the
Northern Pacific Railroad, and Oswald Garrison Vil
lard, were present

Shortly after ten o'clock students and alumni march
ed in procession into the chapel, the orchestra rendered
“a beautiful selection.” the Reverend Dr. W. Strother
Jones offered prayer, and Judge William McLaughlin
began the formal inaugural proceedings to install in
office the ninth president in the chartered existence of
Washinteon and Lee

After a few opening paragraphs of gratelu: ac
knowledeement of the remarks of the visiling speakers
Wilson touched upon the sensitive question of sectar

Non Incautus Futuri

Robert E. R. Huntley was officially inau-
gurated today as Washington and Lee’s twen-
tieth president. However, in the few months
he has been “unofficially” working in this
position, we can see the course the Huntley
administration will follow. And we are greatly
encouraged by it

In the three main issues which most con
cern us—~alumni, community and student re
lations Pre sident Huntley has made notable
gains. Ede has traveled across the country to
ilumni associations, not only to introduce him
elf, but also in an effort to bring the alumni
up to date on Wa&L and to have them take
more interest in the ( inive rsity The respons
co his visits have been overwhelming, as evi
denced by the large crowds and inicre ised
donation

This summer President Huntley volun
teere d W &!

+7
recreational program tor children of ill ip

sthietic facilities to a | exington

ind backgrounds In iddition, 1 new ilummni
hat , ' i j

enapter was of nized in the city

; .

Especially in student relations have we
seen a marked improvement. President Hunt-
ley has made continuous efforts to speak to
campus organizations in order to exchange
ideas with them. He is anxious to know what
students want and what we are thinking. His
youth and his attitude make us feel that we
can communicate with him, and he can undet
stand us. Mis doors are open to everyonse
from the lowliest freshman to the largest cor
poration president. We have known him to
make appointments with students after his
working hours just s80 he can have time to
devote to their questions

There ife no words fo expres tii freat

satisfaction we have in knowing that such a

 

dynami man will be leading W i
Lee toward the future, using the past as a
guideline, but not depending on it. We now
have a man who will progress with the « f
changing times instead of resting on the

glories of the past.

ianism. He declared that there could be no sectarian
“limitation” at Washington nad Lee. He thus stated
delicately: “Born of piety and love of education which
marked the first settlers in this region, this school en-
joyed the friendship and, at times, the official patronage
of the church to which those settlers were so strongly
attached. It can never forget that obligation, and it has
endeavored to repay it by educating some of the greatest
men in the annals of that church, But later friends and
benefactors have been limited to no denomination, and,
as these memorial portraits show, to no section of our
country.”

He traced the slow and painful recovery of South-
ern colleges and universities in the post-bellum epoch,
handicapped as they were at the time he spoke by woe-
fully inadequate financial resources. Despite their dif-
ficulties, he said, these institutions achieved highly credit-
able work “in the most important and immediately use-
ful branches of education.”

The inauguration exercises occupied three hours,
and after Wilson had taken the oath of office, the guests
wended their way to the then existent old college gym-
nasium for the banquet. That building had been decorat-
ed under the direction of Miss Annie White, the librarian,
the tables accommodated 350, including invited students,
and all engaged in an excellent dinner. At the time for
toasts and speeches, when President Wilson rose to
introduce President Daniel Coit Gilman of John Hop-
kins, a cloudburst upon the tin roof of the gymnasium
drowned all efforts to speak. But Dr. Gilman “was seen
to extend his arms toward his hearers as if laying them
all under the spell of his words,” He carried on the
patomine with great verve, which elicited rounds of
applause from most of the audience, although some in
the rear, believing him to be speaking, called “louder.”

The storm, which brought much-needed rain to the
drought-stricken area, soon passed and a dozen or so
brief responses to toasts were made.

Denny Becomes President

In ill-health the several years during his presidency
at Washington and Lee, President Wilson died in 1900,
and after a brief interregnum, Dr. George Hutcheson
Denny, became acting president in 1901 for a year
and was then chosen President shortly afterward. It
was characteristic of President Denny that his formal
induction into office in June 1902, should have been
lacking in pomp and ceremonial usual to such occasions.
Only the official representatives of the five educational
institutions most closely associated with Washington and
Lee were present: Professor W. E. Peters of the Uni-
versity of Virginia (President Denny's graduate teacher),
Dean Andrew Fleming West of Princeton (afterward
Woodrow Wilson's opponent), and President Venable
(University of North Carolina), Ira Remsen (Uohns
Hopkins), and Mcllwaine of Hampden-Sydney

President Denny's inaugural proved to be eloquent
and thought-provoking, and must have pleased his audi
tors, especially the clerical members of the Board of
Trustees. He called for godly instructors, a sound cur-
riculum, and a healthy spiritual atmosphere. Dr. Denny
spoke out against the notion that education could be
mere “intellectual refinement,” and condemned the deifi
cation of intellectual culture. Recalling that religion had
been a primal impulse in the planting of his institution,

he inveighed against the skeptical contemporary age, an
era whose motto he said was, “Doubt your beliefs and

 

Dr. George H. Denny (1902-1911)

believe your doubts.” a time which had changed the
Cross into an interrogation point. Noting that many

people preached the idea that science was the religion

f oday and tomorrow Dr. Denny offered no ob

   

jection to science itself bul opposed its “guesses There
could be. he verted, no real conflict between science
ind religious faith: each could operate in its own sphere
but science should not invade that of religion
In th conciuding seement of his inaugural ad
re 1) Denny warned that whenever institution of
higher sit led to their mastheads “flags without
HA ¢ ’ “ul when ‘ ; Oo fecormnize
Fle } np ri he of ihe
hen ‘ ulin would hecome dang
Dey p ' i
" i i i
P | De ned fa [
ij i | n } pt ih
f I \ Follow }
ip Hen
j S P Davidson (
W i] quen i id
} s i
Mi 9 \ of
i
Dr. S ' '
i i
i ' | Wasi
'
i
i
p .
i ( | !

inaugural address, Dr. Smith developed briefly ideas of
higher education which were to become familiar to his
associates in Lexington. With a vividness of phrase
peculiarly his own, Dr. Smith analyzed deplorable con-
ditions of undergraduate life as “a unique combination
of social loafing, childish frivolity, degrading dissipation,
and strenuous athletics; where homeopathic doses of
intellectual discipline (were) adminisitered by discouraged
physicians to unwilling patients when more important
activities allow...” Thousand were being taught to loaf
and to play ball, but colleges did not fit them for the
fierce competition of professional and business life.

The Washington and Lee president foresaw a new
place and function for the American college. In the face
of lamentable “opposition of old-time college faculties”
(some of whom regrettably were to turn up in the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty!), the spirit of modern times
transformed our political, industrial, and educational
institutions. Higher education must adapt itself to the
needs and call of a new social and civic order; and
apparently this ferment presented colleges with an op-
portunity, Dr. Smith distinctly disapproved the notion
that the college campus should prepare students solely
for graduate work or even exclusively for the learned
professions,

 

Dr. Francis P. Gaines (1930-1959)

As Dr. Smith unfolded his plans at Washington
and Lee, he chose to stress successively applied learn
ing and sciences. The core of President Smith's educa
tional program consiisted in administrative emphasis
upon engineering, commerce (lo an extent), and journal
ism—the last-named occupying the president's curricular
interest during the twenties

Regarding that controversial topic ever so neat
and dear to alumni hearts, college athletics, Dr. Smith
clearly stated his desire to develop the individual through
bodily training and exercise. In this connection the presi
dent criticized what he called the one-sided and narrow
inter-collegiate athletic program, which he correctly be
lieved had been allowed to gain headway through lack
of faculty sympathy and control. Yet even this he did not
entirely condemn. The social and recreational ispects
of college life he desired to improve through guidance in
“this world in miniature After remarks critical of
campus “atmosphere” (how often this recurs!), where
students were satisfied with the “Gentlemen's erade of
‘D” (ater to be inflated to “C"), Dr. Smith launched
into his peroration, in which he descanted upon the
hallowed associations of Lexington, and the omnipresent
inspiration of the lives of Lee and Jackson-—a theme of
which he never wearied

Smith Retires

Upon the retirement of President Smith at th
close of 1929, Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, President
of Wake Forest College, accepied election to the presi
dency of Washington and Lee, taking up his duties in
the summer of 1930. The youthful and eloquent Presi
dent Gaines took the oath of office in his inaugural
ceremonies on Saturday morning, October 25, 1930. A
galaxy of distinguished delegates and speakers attended,
proceeding from the Lee Chapel, where Dr. Gaines was
sworn in, to the Doremus gymnasium. There a number
of addresses were delivered by Chancellor Kirkland of
Vanderbilt (who had spoken so wisely thirty-three years
before at President Wilson's inauguration), President
Frank P. Graham of the University of North Carolina
General John A. Lejeune of V. M. I. (who spoke for the
Virginia institutions of higher learning), and John W
Davis for the Washington and | ilumni, President
Gaines inaugural address concluded this phase of the
day's activities, and expression of lofiy idealism eloqu
ently phrased, A luncheon for delegates and others was
held on campus, at which Dr. John H. Finley, editor
of the New York Times spoke with warm appreciation

of the history of the Univer y and of its new leader!
A football game. an evenin ception, and an informal
dance concluded this full day
Cole Elected
1“ non ; | i ti ary
c ines retired in th pri f 1959. In

 

(Continued on Page 4)

     

      

Dr. Fred ©. Cole (1960.1967)

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Try To Tame Tigers At

THE

 

Intramurals At Full Swing As fo
Football Play Highlights Action ae

By THUNDER THORNTON

rhe intramural season at Washing-
ton and Lee is well under way with
tennis and golf championships slated
for next week. The tennis league win-
ners are Sigma Nu, Zeta Beta Tau
and Phi Gamma Delta. In the remain-
ing league the Phi Delts, Betas, and
Pi Phis are waging a three way battle
for the championship.

Iwo champions have been decided
in the four golf leagues. Phi Kappa

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelery Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

RING-TUM PHI

| with the Phi Kaps defeating the |

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee University
Bookstore
WE CONGRATULATE
THE UNIVERSITY ON |
ITS NEW PRESIDENT!

EEEELEEE EEE ELE EEE EEE EEE EES EEE TEESE SEES TEE E TEES?

Welcome Back Students

ee eee beet

*
>

© PSS SSS ESSE SSS T TSS TS

® DRY CLEANING

® LAUNDRY

® SHIRT SERVICE

® ONE HOUR
SERVICE

Agents in Dorm:

GLENN MOOR! Lit

SOUTHERN INN RESTAURANT
for Good Food

and Service
We have meal tickets at savings to you
TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE
Southern Inn

dl
SOHHSSSHSOSSSHSHEHSESESESESESESSESESESSESEEEEOEES

MARTINIZING

 

MOPFATI

    
 

 

 

 

wos Ge
Sigma, and Pi Kappa Alpha have! Joe Dozier shows form that revitalized Generals ground attack last week.
completed their schedule with perfect, —Photo by Foster
4-0 records. In the remaining league | - —a - a "

the Betas and SPES look strong. | —— — Pt =
week Soccer Team Evens Record By

Wrestling got under way this week |
and the Pi Phis besting the von ime Shutting Out V.M.I. Wednesday

ternity Union. In other action the}
Delts beat ZBT, the Phi Psi defeated |

the Betas, Delta Upsilon beat Sigma | The soccer team of the Washing- the fourth quarter John Yow blew
Phi Epsilon, and a strong PIKA team| ton and Lee Generals pulled rank|a penalty kick past the VMI goalie
defeated the Fijis. for the third and final goal of the
day.

lover the neighboring VMI Keydets

Football action was highlighted last Wednesday afternoon in downing
week by a Phi Delt victory over the | them 3-0. It was the second straight The game showed improvement in
Pi Phis, the Phi Gams defeating KA, shut-out for the improving Blue, who} the Generals’ passing and better play
and the SAEs besting the Phi Psis, | have now evened theit record at 3-3.| of the halfbacks. Freshman Paul
in other action the Phi Kaps defeated| Phe Generals got their first score | Miller had by far his best game of

Sigma Chi, NFU edged Sigma Nu} jp the first quarter on what may | the season. His play in the second

 

and the Delts beat the SPES. In | wel} have been the best WA&L offensive | half was especially outstanding.

brilliant offensive display the KAs | play this year. Jack Horowitz put a} ¢ oach Joe Lyles felt the three full-

blasted the Law School, 40-25. beautiful cross directly in front of | backs, Brian Price, Mark Sayers, and |
the Keydet goal and Fred Fletcher | Doug Clark played well. He was also

. | headed it in for the tally. | pleased with the play of linemen |
: The second Blue score was by| *°W and Fletcher and halfbacks |
| Sra on A Miller and Carl Hiatt.

Horowitz unassisted when he drilled |
in a shot from the right side of the|
net in the second period. Late in

The game, however, did not come

(Continued on Page 4)

ee,

ve ae Lo i? ir?

J ‘y ad ™ : :

a } hd ie a eek 54 } ,
i

an

Bk RRA ESAS

,
*

eee

*
>

 

FESS SSEE SESS SETS SESS S ECTS

Randy Reed (Kappa Sig) gets set to throw pass in loss to Phi Delts.
—Photo by Cooper

KENNEY’S

OF LEXINGTON
Home of the Big K

SPECIAL PRICE FOR
LARGE ORDERS

 

 

 

Pteeeeseoseseseresooses

ROCKBRIDGE
LAUNDRY &
CLEANERS

Iry Our Flufl Dry Service

PEE SSE EEESEEE ESET EES

 

| Se 6h ri it—“‘“‘i‘
| $ | PARTIES & PICNICS
| 463-3141 $ 463-5730

+

 

SEE EE SES SE SEES E SSS EOET

 

SESE SSE SSE SSE E SES ESEEE EEE SESESS EEE SESE S ESET ESE ES

bee

463-3111

eggett

BILL ROGERS

 

 

Nelson Street

Drive-In
Office

One nour

MAATINIZING,

THE MOST IN DRY CLEANING
Lexington Shopping Park

Down Town Lexington

Dress and Casual wear for the man about town.

Famous brand names to shoose from:

 

Famous brand names to choose from:

McGregor and Manstyle.

LESSEE S SSS SSE LILES SESE SESSESSESSESSD

SESS ESSSSSS SESS SES ESTES ESTES TTT TS

PEEREE PEEPS EEEEOEEEESEEEE SESS ESEEESEEEHESERE ESS

THE

FIRST NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK

OF VIRGINIA

omecoming

The game program for tomorrow’s| losses, are out of the way, but W&l
football contest between Washington| must face a good Hampden-Sydney
and Lee and Hampden-Sydney lists| outfit with many of its best players
two new reserves on the W&L roster: | in the bench or up in the stands.

“No. 98, Florence Nightingale, and | “Hampden-Sydney has moved the
No. 99, Clara Barton.” ball real well against everybody they

The two angels of mercy are need-| have played,” Coach Leslie comment-
ed to patch up the injury-riddled'ed. “They lost to Sewanee but they
Generals as they face the Tigers in| did everything better except outscore
a 2 p.m. Homecoming clash on W&L’s |’em. They are a lot stronger than
Wilson Field. many people feel.”

Four starting defensive players are | W&L's slowly emerging | offense
hurt, including the two co-captains, | M4Y finally erupt this Saturday,
linebacker John Wolf and end Scott| especially if junior halfback Joe

Dozier has another day like he did
against Lafayette.

The 5-9, 160-pounder from Dur-
ham, N.C. ripped through Lafayette
for 124 yards in 17 carriers, includ-
ing a 5l-yarder on the Generals’ first
play from scrimmage. On W&L’s
touchdown drive of 69 yards, he ran
for 41 of them and caught a_nine-
yard pass which set up the score. As
might be expected, he was hurt on
that play and missed the entire fourth

The W&L offense isn’t without itS| quarter, but should be fully recov-
walking wounded either. Halfback} orog by this Saturday.

Luke Crosland, whose 190 pounds |
added some weight to an already light
backfield, is probably lost for the
season with a knee injury. ; {ing game in the W&L secondary.
“If we were whole physically, | “We made our best effort of the
notes head coach Buck Leslie, “we'd | season against Lafayette,” Coach Les-
be a good football team, a sound | jig said, “We were aggressive and

team, We're now at the point where) really going after people on offense
we would be competitive with the re-| and defense.”

maining teams on our schedule, if | — al
only we didn’t have this injury prob- | ##*eOtGOttto oe hoeooooe
lem.”

At the beginning of the season
Leslie said the first four games repre-
sented the toughest opening schedule
the Generals have faced since he came |
here in 1960 as an assistant coach.

Now those four games, all of them’ ,

Mackenzie. Both have ailing knees,
and Mackenzie will sit out the game
entirely. Wolf's service will be seri-
ously limited. |

Also injured is defensive back Lee
Graham, who won't be in uniform,
and linebacker Dean Kumpuris, who
may be able to play sparingly. Kum-
puris needed nine stitches to close a
severe gash on his forehead suffered
in last week’s 27-7 loss to Lafayette.

 

Freshman Dave Brooks, learning
defensive strategy fast under fire.
played his second straight outstand-

 

Tolley’s Pharmacy

11 West Washington St.
Lexington, Va.
PHONE 463-2211

*
4
4
‘
4
‘
4
‘
‘
4
‘

eR ee a ee ee

 

Pb bbe et

= -
= *
° PARAMOUNT INN °
: Next to the Country Kitchen °
; LUNCHES a FOUNTAIN SERVICE >.
* +
=

Cee eeeeeeeeeseeeseeeeesseessscoecessesssoeosooees

 

 

 

Burlington Gold Cup
Socks started it.

Fight conformity. Start the fireworks. Gold Cup
has 76 blazing, bold and fashion colors for you.
Add the spirit of '76 to your leisure wear.

Here's the comforting news. Gold Cup is a
blend of 75% high bulk Orlon acrylic and 25%
stretch nylon. They're soft and luxurious. (Just like
cashmere.) They stay soft, keep their glorious color
and give you extra-strength with a reinforced heel
and toe shield. No matter how often they're sent to
battle in the washing machine and dryer, they
come out ahead.

Start your own revolution. Pick up several pair of
Burlington Gold Cup Socks. That's the spirit.

$1.75

the pair

COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

-

101 South Main °
>

Street >
Office >
=

=
 

 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

CheRing-tumPhi

The Ring-tum Phi is published T

year. It is printed by the Journalism

uesdays and Fridays during the college
Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee

University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,

Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the

act of March 3, 1879.

Subscription rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

NEIL S. KESSLER
Editor-in-Chief

NEWS EDITOR

EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
ADMINISTRATIVE EDITOR
ASSOCIATE EDITOR
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
NEWS REPORTER

PHOTO EDITOR

STAFF REPORTERS
SATIRIST

INTRAMURAL EDI rOR

GLENN R. MOORE
Business Manager

Bob Entzminger
Lawrence McConnell
Charlie Freret

Chip Harris

Paul Dodson

Mac Barr

Frank Rose

Downs Little

Allen Cooper

Monty Cottier, Jim Mangan, Roger Mumsick

The Omniscient Freshman
Thunder Thornton

 

 

B & F LUNCH

463-6202
Serving Food and Beverages

 

 

Hill’s Barber Shop
WE AIM TO PLEASE
Below the Lyric

 

a.

The Country Ritehen
Breads, Cakes, Pastries
PHONE 463-5691
8-inch Decorated Cake $3.00
8-inch Just Iced $2.00

 

 

 

Bring the Hollins
Road Team to

FRANK’S |

(Intersection of
Williamson Rd, and Rt. 11)

Hollins, Va.

2

S38

  

|| psychokinesis}

 

'WLUR Seeks Members,
‘Schedules Regular
Saturday Programs

WLUR-FM _ inaugurates regular
Saturday broadcasting on Saturday,
November 9, with live coverage of
the Southwestern football game.

Initial hours of broadcasting will
be from 1 p.m. until 7 p.m. with a
format of news and “folk-rock” music,
also referred to as “underground” or

“progressive rock.”
To satify many requests for such
programming, WLUR extends an

open invitation to any Washington
and Lee student to attend an organi-
zation meeting for work on Saturday.
WLUR is looking for persons knowl-
edgeable in such music who want to
engineer and announce their own
shows.

Dave Katz, a long-time WLUR
staffer, will be responsible for orga-

‘| nizing the new Saturday format. A

meeting for all those interested will

be held at 7:30 p.m., this Monday, in

Reid 315.

Parapsychology

Anyone interested in participating
in parapsychology experiments (tele-
pathy, clairvoyance, precognition, or
please get in touch
with Roddy Roediger (Sigma Nu or
463-7400) or Mike Stevens. No evi-
dence of ability is necessary, just
interest.

 

 

The
THUNDERBIRD
CLUB
ROANOKE, VA.

Doors Open 8:30
Available for Private Parties

College Students Welcome

ONE MILE FROM
HOLLINS COLLEGE

362-3624

 

 

 

AUTO FOR SALE
1967 Triumph GT-6 Fastback, four-
speed synchromesh, wire wheels,
radial tires, and radio. Good con-
dition, Call 261-256 after 6:00 p.m.
O11-22

| Red Front Gro.

ABC LICENSE 2269 OFF
FOOD — ICE
on N. Main

 

 

 

 

 

PRES BROWN’S INC.

congratulates
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

on the inauguration
of its twentieth president

 

 

 

Take a Piedmont Pacemaker—a new Boeing 737
fanjet or other fine aircraft—and leave fast

and easy. Leave campus for home, for holidays,
for get-away-from-it-alls. You'll like the way
service has grown to make the going easier.

ch PIEDMONT AIRLINES

growing service for going people

 

 

 

 

W&L Professor
Attends Meeting
In Denver, Col.

Professor Millard Dunn of the De-
partment of English here is on the
program of the Twenty-Second An-
nual Meeting of the Rocky Moutain
Modern Language Association (RM
MLA) being held at the U. S, Air
Force Academy on October 11 and
12. The departments of English and
Foreign Languages of the Academy
and Colorado College are co-hosts.
The RMMLA is affliated with the
Modern Language Association of
America, and the American Council
on the Teaching of Foreign Langu-
ages.

The organization is designed to de-
velop an intellectual espirit de corps
among scholars in the languages, lit-
eratures and the humanities, and to
provide a means for communicating
ideas in these fields. Membership in-
cludes faculty members of colleges
and universities in 15 mid-western
and western states and in Alberta,
Can.

Colonel Jesse C. Gatlin, Jr., Chair-
man of the Department of English at
the Academy is President of the As-

sociation, and Dr, Henry Pettit of the} ...,
University of Colorado is Executive} > —

Secretary.

Literary Magazine ‘Ariel’
Soliciting Student Works
For Autumn Publication

Ariel, the student literary maga-
zine, is soliciting manuscripts for the
autumn issue.

Editor Bernie Feld said
poetry, fiction, critical essays,
pen and ink drawings may be sub-
mitted to the Ariel box on the first
floor of Payne Hall behind the in-
formation desk.

Essays written for English courses
along with any other original unpub-
lished work is acceptable for con-
sideration, Feld said.

Each manuscript should be sub-
mitted typed, double-spaced and
should not be signed. Each author
should submit a separate envelope
containing his name and the title or
titles of the work submitted.

student

Peace Corps Officer

Professor Delos Hughes of the
Political Science Department is re-
placing Professor Milton Colvin as
Peace Corps liaison officer for the
Washintgon and Lee campus, Students
interested should get in touch with
Professor Hughes. His office is in
Newcomb Hall.

Professor Colvin pointed out that
in a six year span W&L has had many
students serve in the Peace Corps
and has never had a man who failed
to stay with the course. Washington
and Lee also has never had an appli-
cant rejected by the Peace Corps.

Applicants should realize that Peace
Corps service is not in lieu of mili-
tary service and applicant must ar-
range deferments with their own draft
boards. Deferment is not automatic,
but in general Boards have granted
deferments upon evidence of actual
acceptance into the Peace Corps.

 

Huntley Takes Oath

(Continued from Page 1)
hurst of Virginia Beach, a graduate
of the College of William and Mary.

By assuming the office of President
of the University,
Dr. Fred C.
1967 to accept the presidency of the
Council on Library Resources,
During the period between Cole's

and] >

Soccer Team

Blanks V.M.I.

(Continued from Page 3)

easily as VMI showed tremendous
spirit and hustle in fighting the Gen-
erals all the way. Although down
at halftime, they were cheered on by
an army of Keydets and controlled
the third quarter. It was not until
early in the fourth quarter, after the
Keydets had blown a golden scoring
opportunity by missing a penalty shot,
that W&L was able to regain the
initiative. The Blue was further hurt
by an addition to the W&L “casual-
ty list.” This time the victim was the
goalie, All-American Candidate Tom
Mitchell, who has something wrong
with one of his eyes. Ken Newman
did a fine job in replacing him, how-
ever.

This Saturday the Generals will be
in action again, this time against Roa-
noke, the number one team in the
state. Washington and Lee will be
facing several All-Americans and
certainly face a severe test. How-
ever, with the possible return of
Scott Fechnay, continued team im-
provement, and tremendous hustle the
Blues cannot be counted out.

Radio
Hospital

 

Sales and Service
of

Radio, TV, Appliances
463-3531
14 South Randolph

 

feeb oe oe oboe eee endo ofe bende sfonde abe ae bese fee

HICKMAN’S ESSO

on
US. 11 SOUTH

 

Sn Ma Me Ma te da aha a de ata Bae

ye
'
ye
re
e
e
*
'
.
,
‘

PEEEE SEES SEE EEE E EES

 

Huntley succeeds |
Cole, who resigned in|

Inc. |

resignation and the naming of Hunt-|

Dean

ley as his successor,

William |

i
W. Pusey served as Acting President. |

who was selected by
to de-

Dr. Friday,
the Inauguration Committee

liver the Convocation Address at the |

Inauguration, received his law degree |

from the University of North € arolina |

at Chapel Hill in 1948, after

serving |

as a naval officer during World War)

 

He became President of the Uni-|

versity * 1956, He is a native of)
Raphine, Va., a small town north of |
oe. in the V alley of Virginia
PEP RALLY
In case of rain the Varsity Club
Pep Rally, scheduled for 6:45 this
evening in Red square, will be can
celed
Dancing to Top Soul Bands

THE
Warehouse

') block up from
Trailways Bus Terminal
324 WEST SALEM AVENUE
ROANOKE, VIRGINIA
For Reservations
342-9960 or 343-9757
available for Private Parties

 

 

 

 

Looking Back:

Past Inaugurations

(Continued from Page 2)

June of that year the trustees an-
nounced that Dr. Fred C. Cole, Aca-
demic Vice-President of the Tulane
University of Louisiana, had accepted
their invitation to become the nine-
teenth president of the venerable
institution. The inauguration of Dr.
Cole tok place on the front campus
lawn on May 7, 1960, in which the
usual academic procession of delegates
and faculty participated, and which
was concluded by addresses by Presi-
dent Nathan M. Pusey of Harvard
University and by President Cole’s
inaugural speech. Each speaker ex-
amined the purpose of an American
college such as Washington and Lee,
and President Cole underscored aca-
demic integrity. A luncheon at the
Evans dining hall on campus wound
up this occasion,

Cole Resigns
Dr. Cole’s resignation in May 1967
resulted in the election of Dean Rob-

ert E. R. Huntley of the Washington
and Lee School of Law as the twent-
ieth President of Washington and
Lee, whose inauguration took place
today, October 18, 1968. It followed
many of the features which have be-
come a pattern for such affairs as
described above. All at Washington
and Lee will wish for a successful
and happy occasion on that day, to-

gether with a long and _ prosperous
administration for our new = and
youthful President.

Se fe oe ofe oho ole ofe nde ate feof feof ae ode ofe prreres

NEW WOOD:

708 Franklin Rd.
IN ROANOKE

FEATURING
THE SHOWMEN

TUESDAY-THURSDAY
OCTOBER 22-24

I
Me feof oe ofe ole of ole nfe ole ofe ole ole fe ale ole ole ole ole steals et >

 

 

POEHLER HOE EDD

 

 

 

 

 

WHY PA

CAMPUS

25 8. JEFFERSON ST.

 

Compare Our Film Developing Prices
8 Exposure Roll (BXW) To Oversize
12 Exposure Roll (B&W) To Overize
5x7 Black and White To Oversize
8x10 Black and White To Oversize
11x14 Black and White To Overisize

We Develop Color Film Also
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

FILM — FLASH BULBS & ACCESSORIES
DEVELOPING FILM FOR OVER 22 YEARS

Y MORE!

49c
69c
35¢
45¢
$1.00

CORNER

LEXINGTON, VA,

 

 

Flying lessons.

Nov
to be

yeorn

piace
Wy
Teom, y
let be a

fox A
’ oh Air f

eee aaa cee cscs cer ce renner cress cscs a cscs ac sc ses a csc es=ce an eres ss ere see eee oe

 

ee ne een

 

 

lo lye it

i
)

UNITED STATES Alm FORCE

Ls. einen ees a eee

-_ -

oH ost nay

A aerogenes se

 
