 

mee = Oh Ring-tun Pht as

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

 

VOLUME LXIII LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 12, 1963 Number 41

Ogilvie And Noell Named Candidates
For 1963-64 President Of Student Body

Dr. Kitto Highlights.
Today’s Convocation

Dr. H. D. F. Kitto, English scholar and classicist, spoke |
at noon today for the annual Phi Beta Kappa convocation on
“Divine Justice in Greek Tragedy.” The assembly was held in
duPont Auditorium, and the crowd was so large that seats were
set up in the hall to handle the overflow.

Dr. Kitto, who has been professor* —~———— ———
of Greek at the University of Bristol] « has been visiting professor at

England since 1944, is the author of| Cornell and Brandeis universities
a number of books on Greece and] and the University of California.

Greek drama. He is widely known] js speech today was under the
for his books, The Greeks and Greek} auspices of the University Center

 

 

Slates For ‘Big Four’ Posts
Announced By Both Parties

Both campus political parties announced yesterday their
candidates for the “Big Four” offices of the Student Body. The
“Big Four” offices include president, vice-president, secretary,
and president of Fancy Dress. The elections for the ‘Big Four”
will be held on Thursday, April 17 in the Student Union. The

slates for the University and Progressive parties are as follows:

University Party Progressive Party

William Buckner Ogilvie, Beta The Progressive Party announced
junior from Shreveport, La., was; yesterday their slate for the 1963
announced today as the University! Student Body elections. Bill Noell,
Party candidate for President of the! SAE junior from Bluefield, West

 

 

Tragedy. in Virginia. : he Student Body. Jim Stott, University | Virginia is the Progressive candidate

In the United States, Prof. ‘Kit- The new U.S. Ambassador to Buck Ogilvie Bill Noell Perty Chairman, : made om eae 9d president of the student body.

—_—_—___—__——-————| Ethiopia, Edward M. Korry, a 1942 Scaled Maule Bandiiees ieeeeciee ae Mei nouncement of Ogilvie’s nomination| Tom Woodward, chairman of the

Washington and Lee graduate, was ~ — pa seat abs at Sa edd a together with his party’s three other| newly-formed party, made the an-

Duskine Talks the alumnus tapped for membership | —— & side’ candidates. nouncement at the same time it is-
during today’s convocation. Ambas- | Ogilvie has served two years on| Sued its platform.

: sador Korry, who has begun his! the Executive Committee, is co- Noell is a junior member of Phi

On April 16 duties in Ethiopia, could not be! .. sia . captain of next year’s football team,| Beta Kappa and ODK and is presi-

present for the ceremony. i Sill a and a dormitory counselor. He is a} dent of the junior class. He has been

Dr. Dexter Perkins, professor}; The Convocation today included |
emeritus of American Civilization] the formal tapping of eight Wash-|
at Cornell University is scheduled] ington and Lee students for mem-
to lecture here Tuesday evening,} bership in the Virginia Gamma chap- |
April 16. Dr. Perkins will speak on| ter of Phi Beta Kappa. Included in|
“The Constitution After 175 Years,”) the group were five seniors, two!
a favorite topic of his. juniors, and a senior law student. |

Boston Academic seniors were: Richard |

Born and raised in Boston, he re-| Thomas Edwards, HI, of Roanoke,
ceived both his A.B. and his Ph.D.| Charles Alan Grubb, of Silver
at Harvard University. For many| Spring, Md.; Herbert Grant Jahn-
years thereafter, Dr. Perkins was a| ¢ke, of New Orleans, La.; William
history professor at the University] Bryan Lowry, of Hobbs, New
of Rochester in New York. As an| Mexico; and John Francis Refo,
emeritus professor of Cornell, he is; of Norfolk.
now a leading as a professor of| Academic juniors were: Jere
American History at the University | Cravens, of Summit, New Jersey;
of Pittsburgh. and William Alfred Noell of Blue-
field, West Virginia.

; ‘ The only law student was Timothy

Dr. Perkins studied for . few Gales Ireland, of Akron, Ohio.
years at Cambridge University in Fight is the smallest number of
England. In the past he also served

member of SWMSFC and Phi Etaj| chairman of the Assimilation Com-
Sigma, and has received an award| mittee this year and has held a
as outstanding MS-I Cadet. He is an| Robert E. Lee Research Grant. In
Honor Roll student and a member |} addition he is a member of SWMSFC,
of ODK. Phi Eta Sigma, Commerce Frater-
James Ellsworth Kulp, first yearj nity, Tau Kappa Alpha, andthe
law student from Roanoke, Va., has| Dance Board. He has especially dis-
been nominated by the University| tinguished himself in national de-
Party as Vice-President of the Stu-| bating was one of the national
dent Body. He is a graduate of| iinalists for the present school year.
Hampden-Sydney College, where he} He has consistently been on Dean’s
was secretary of Omicron Delta Kap-| List and Honor Roll.
Pa, President of Chi Beta Phi sci-| Tom Supak, ZBT junior, from Vir-
ence fraternity, a member of the stu-| ginia Beach, Virginia is the Pro-
dent body Honor Council, and sec-| gressive’s candidate for vice-presi-

 

Platform Platform

Buck Ogilvie, Jim Kulp, and Edj| Because we find that the three
Croft, University Party nominee for} main functions of the Executive
President, Vice-President, and Sec-| Committee are:
retary of the student body affirm; 1. To administer the Honor Sys-

Cambridge

 

Mn eae Jim Kulp Tom Supak their support of the following: tem,
talks Ys aa . pg soe i aes eee: : University Party Candidate Progressive Party Candidate 1. A more active student govern-; 2. To promote cooperation and
Ss ere ucdles| The convocation today also com- Running for Vice-President Running for Vice-President ment function as well as honor com-| understanding between students and

reer — - oo ees memorated a $25,000 gift to the Uni- mittee functions for the Executive] the faculty, and
; ee EL : ‘__, | versity’s endowment made in 1802 Committee. 3. To formulate and execute sound
Hands Off, a book dealing specifi-| py the Society of Cincinnati, a group Student body officers will appear| policies and procedures for the Stu-
(Continued ¢ on page 4) tof George Washington's officers. at an IFC meeting once a month} dent Body. we submit the following

where student body opinion may be} platform:

felt out. NFU and_ organization 1. We support a critical re-evalua-
Faculty Considers Cut System Proposal

 

heads may also appear. IFC repre-| tion of Honor System procedures,
sentatives will return to their house} such as the following: Should the
and determine studen body opinion| percentage of votes necessary for
on the various issues. conviction in an Honor Trial be in-
When sufficient opinion has been| creased? Should a student be allowed
presented to these student body of-| legal counsel in determining whether
ficers they will carry these opinions} to take his ease to public trial?
to the executive committee of the} Should a student be allowed legal
faculty or other appropriate faculty; counsel during a public trial?

A petition, received March 20, 1963, bearing about 800 student signatures,
requesting a more liberal cut system was discussed at a joint meeting of
the Executive Committee of the faculty and the Committee on Courses and
Degrees on March 26. Mr. John Kirkley appeared before the committees

and there followed an extended discussion of the matter of absences. members and strive for their adop-| 2. We support the creation of a
The following motion, passed by the committees, was approved by the tion. student-faculty forum to discuss

2. A mock honor trial should be| openly major problems of mutual -
presented before the student bodyj| concern, as they may arise, such as
to acquaint them with the proceed-| the cut system, the grading system,

faculty at its meeting on April 8: “That an appropriate group under the
two committees be appointed to study the present absence system with a
view to determining whether some change is appropriate.”

A representative faculty committee is being appointed for this purpose, ings. and the curriculum.
Dean Pusey stated today. 3. A symposium prior to the meet-| 3. We support the gradual return

Publications Elections Held Next Week

On Wednesday, April 17, the Publications Board will meet to select next

ing of the Mock Convention. This| of the Interfraternity Council's pow-
symposium would involve speakers! er to discipline fraternities, on the
and discussion groups on subjects| grounds that this is consistent with
relevent to the convention. the policy to allow members of the

4. A thorough study of the cut| Student Body to participate in reach-

 

Ed Croft Frank Wright

year's editors and business managers of the Ring-tum Phi and The Iniversity Party Candidat Praneiniivs Party Candidate system aimed at bringing about lib-| ing decisions affecting their fellow
Southern Collegian. Any student interested in such a position should pre- University ‘ig a , — "cele i. i aaa — eralization of it. students.

pare a concise presentation of his qualifications, opinion concerning the Running for Secretary aes OF Seer 5. A brief description of each honor} 4. We support a proposal to place
publication of his choice, and any innovations he plans for the coming system violation on the notices which| the financial responsibility for the
year. He should also contact the current officer of the position he wants. are placed on the bulletin board.| cocktail parties held in honor of

Presentations should be about 10 minutes in length, though less or more
time is permissible.

The presentations will take place in the Circle Room of the Student
Union at 2:00 p.m. Applicants are urged to be there on time.

Openings, Springs, and Finals Dance
retary-treasurer and vice-president Set Presidents with the Student
of the student body. He is also a| B0dy in order to remove that re-
Se Ser Sy sponsibility from individual frater-
Edward Stockton Croft, I, KA| "tes: Funds would be generated
junior from Atlanta, Ga. is the|'hvough the sale of Dance Plans,
University Dartv's candidate fee and would then be made available
student body secretary, Beis vices?” ® equal basis to the classes re-
president of the Dance Board, pres- sponsible for those parties
ident of Springs Dances, a member
of the Freshman Executive Com-| dent of the Student Body. Supak wa
mittee, Omicron Delta Kappa, and aj president of this year’s Opening
member of the football team. Dances and a starting plaver on the
Emmett Randolph Wootton, Phi| varsity basketball team. He was also
Delt Junior from Baltimore, Md.,| chosen a member of the All-College
was nominated by the University} Athletic Conference basketball team
Party for President of Fancy Dress.| He is a member of SWMSFC, the
He is secretary of the junior class,| Dance Board, and Psi Chi. He i
has played varsity swimming and|an Honor Roll student and holds
lacrosse for three years, SWMSFC,} the Garrett economies scholarship
on the business staff of the Ring-tum| The candidate nominated for see-
Phi, a fraternity officer, a Dean’s| retary of the Student Body is Frank
List student, a past member of the; Wright, Sigma Nu junior, from
Assimilation Committee, a past} Blacksburg, Virginia. Wright has

 

Dominican Priest Speaks On April 17

A Dominican priest from France will talk about the future of world
Christianity Wednesday (April 17) in a public lecture at Washington and
Lee University.

The Rev. Henri-Dominique Laval will speak at 8 p.m. in the university's
duPont Auditorium under the auspices of the University Christian As-
sociation and ReVue, a private film subscription series. Father Laval will
be in Lexington about a week as the guest of Jay Laurence Taylor, an
instructor in romance languages at Washington and Lee.

The French priest will discuss the Ecumenical Council and Pope John
in a second public address Sunday (April 21). He will speak at 7:30 p.m.
in the Parish Hall of Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church. This talk
will be sponsored jointly by the Episcopal Church and St. Patriek’s Catho-
lic Church.

 

Candidates To Conduct Assembly Wednesday

 

 

There will be a voluntary assembly on Wednesday, April 19 in order Randy Wootton Barry Staniar vice-president of Opening’s Dances,| been sophomore class president
: . = . + ‘ . = ‘. Ss . : ‘ . nae . - ae : : nes ‘ . = f
that candidates for the student body offices may address the entire student University Party Candidate Progressive Party Candidate and a member of the Chaplain’s| Superior ROTC Cadet, a freshman

 

 

body. The assembly will be held at 7 p.m. in the Commons, Running for FD President Running for FD President (Continued on page 4) (Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Despite the vote margin carried by the new Progressive
Party into this year’s campus elections, the political situation
should not be regarded as open and shut. There is enough
emphasis on individual qualifications, rather than on straight
party affiliation to bring an atmosphere of contest into each
of the Big Three races.

Because individual qualifications are so important, the Fri-
day edition of the Ring-tum Phi feels justified in presenting the
qualifications of each of the candidates for student body office.
On the basis of this evidence, we are picking the man for
each of these posts whom we feel to be the most qualified and
who would serve the student body best.

We feel that a student newspaper should be a commentator
on the facts as well as a reporter of them. At times, such com-
ment arouses little interest among the readers; at other times,
there may be readers who object to the newspaper’s judgment.
But at such times—a campus election, for example—a news-
paper should be most vocal. On these important issues, a
newspaper should not worship impartiality to the point of
ineffectuality.

FOR PRESIDENT

The race for president will be between Buck Ogilvie and
Bill Noell. Both of these men are well known to the student
body. Ogilvie, a junior from Shreveport, La., is a member
of Beta Theta Pi. Noell, a junior from Bluefield, W. Va., be-
came a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon this year.

Gradewise, both men have been consistently on the Dean’s
List and the Honor Roll. In addition both men were initiated
into Phi Eta Sigma. Noell was also recently elected to Phi Beta
Kappa. In activities, again we might rate them nearly equal.
Ogilvie is a member of SWMSFC, ODK, is a letterman as
well as co-captain of the football team, and is a dormitory
counselor. Noell is in SWMSFC, ODK, is chairman of the
Assimilation Committee, and is a member of the debate team
as well as being a finalist in the National Debate tournament
and a member of the Dance Board.

In the field of student government, Ogilvie has served for
two years on the Executive Committee representing his class
during his sophomore and junior years. On the other hand,
Noell has had no EC experience but was elected president of
the junior class.

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

It appears that both candidates are very similar in qualifi-
cations except in one important area and that is the most im-
portant—the Executive Committee. Because of this and his
generally more rounded career, Ogilvie appears to be the best
choice for the job.

FOR VICE PRESIDENT

The vice-presidential race this year is a very interesting
one, if for no other reason than it involves two men who are
transfers from other schools.

Tom Supak, a junior came to Washington and Lee with his
twin Jon, after spending his freshman year at William and
Mary. Supak immediately distinguished himself both on and
off the basketball court by his excellent work as guard on the
Five-Star Generals and receiving an All-CAC basketball team
award. He has consistently been on Dean’s List Honor Roll
and was President of this year’s Opening Dances.

Jim Kulp, a freshman law student who came from
Hampden-Sydney with a distinguished record, is the Univer-
sity Party’s choice for Vice-President of the Student Body.
While he was at our neighbor to the South, he became a mem-
ber of Omicron Delta Kappa, served on the Honor Council
and was both Secretary-Treasurer and Vice-President of the
Hampden--Sydney student body.

In looking at both of these candidates, we see that Kulp’s
experience in student government far outweighs that of Supak,
but that this experience was gained at a school other than
Washington and Lee. Kulp’s short stay on this campus (only
7 months) could serve as a disadvantage in dealing with cur-
rent student government problems. On the other hand Tom
Supak has been at Washington and Lee for almost three years,
and has worked with the SWMSFC and the Dance Board,
as President of Openings Dances. Thus he has worked within
the framework of the student government and this would seem
to serve as better qualification. And then there is the matter
that a member of the law school, which is, despite the constant

gilvie, Supak, Wright Selected As Most Qualified

protests, really separate from the rest of the student body,
has much less interest in undergraduate matters. Taking
this all into account it seems to us that Supak by virture of
his experience and tenure at Washington and Lee would
bring greater vitality and interest into the office of the vice-
president.

FOR SECRETARY

The evaluation of the candidates for the office of Secretary
of the Student Body is a more difficult task than either of the
two above-mentioned races for the simple reason that neither
of the candidates has any real qualifications. This is not to say
that both men have not been active in student affairs for both
Croft and Wright have a long list under their names. But we
would like to think that one of the qualifications for student
government is familiarity with the workings of the system.
With this in mind let us look at both candidates.

Ed Croft, a junior, is president-elect of the Dance Board
is a member of ODK, is President of this year’s Spring Dances
and was the Executive Committeeman in his freshman year.
This office, we may add was won under the old political system
which was broken up this year with the formation of the
Progressive Party.

Frank Wright, also a junior, is an Honor Roll student,
sophomore and junior class vice-presidents, a Dormitory coun-
selor, and a member of Phi Eta Sigma.

These qualifications form a long list on the poster and may
be some indication of the candidates ability; but what is more
important is their ability to fill the post conscientiously and
responsibly. Croft’s experience as Freshman EC, it is true, has
given him some familiarity with the workings of the Executive
Committee; but the Freshman EC post has been in the
past—and continues to be—decided on the strength of the
party and not the candidates particular qualifications. Wright’s
student government activity has been confined to the class
offices which he has held but his scholastic achievements indi-
cate his interest and diligence in school affairs. In addition it
appears that Wright would have a great deal more time to
spend on the Secretary’s duties and would not be trying to
do two time-consuming and important jobs at the same time.
It is for these reasons that the Friday Edition supports Frank
Wright for the Secretary’s position.

 

 

Non-Traditional Idea
Baffles W&L Student

Professors Attend |
Philosophy And

Psychology Seminar

Three Washington and Lee Uni-

Fifty-fifty
Those are the odds that you or

Tips For Safe Driving Given

night driving speeds. You can per-
ceive an unexpected obstacle only
half as fast as something you ex-

cent Toronto study showed that
the driver who had only two
drinks was twice as likely to have

ByROBERT HOLLAND

I found a_ beer-drinking senior
companion huddled in the dark re-
cesses of one of Lexington’s fine
establishments the other day. He ap-
peared to be unusually pensive and
was downing brews at a phenomenal
rate.

Cautiously, but with much sympa-
thy for my erring brother, I edged
into the beer-soaked booth and pre-
pared to commiserate with the prop-
er post-mortems. Trouble over the
hill or on the Hill, I thought to
myself.

His first words stunned me and
made my conservative Washington
and Lee collar stand on end.

“W&L Dull”

“Washington and Lee is a damn
dull place to be. Nobody cares noth-
ing about nothing. No picketing. No
controversy. Staid, dull, conserva-
tive, apathetic, stifling, spritless.

“What we need is some real agi-
tation. We should fight for some
causes. Boycott, picket, demonstrate,
crusade . . . Lord knows there’s
enough wrong around here if people
would just open their eyes.”

I pretended to ignore his outburst,
ordered a tall one, shoved some
change in the juke box and re-
marked that we are indeed having
fine weather these days.

But he continued...

“For instance, remember _ that
Martin Luther King issue last year?
Sure, there were a few mild protests
at the time, but the whole matter
has died down. Why, student dele-
gations should have marched in the
streets, burned down Lee Chapel,
hanged the trustees in effigy...”

I spilled part of my brew on my
conservative Washington and Lee
shirt. My friend must be squelched.
He had passed the realm of sweet
reason,

“Now look man, don’t you know
that King is a ...And besides that
he’s a downright radical. Would you
want a left-wing slob like that to
poison the impressionable minds of
naive underclassmen?”

A Place of Free Exchange

He could reply only that a uni-
versity is supposed to be a place for
full and free exchange of ideas—no
matter how unorthodox the point
of view—and that Washington and
Lee should win a prize for orthodoxy
and conformity. The action of the
trustees, said my troubled friend
negated the entire concept of a uni-
versity and gave W&L a black eye
for all to see.

I tried to trap him by recalling
recent events in Wahoo-land:
UVa. Right?
“You mean UVa. was right in per-
mitting Gus Hall and Lincoln Rock-
well speaking platforms at Mr. Jef-

ferson’s university?” I asked. “Are.
you saying that both the American.

Legion and Governor Harrison are
wrong in protesting the appearance
of such loathesome individuals?”

No Thought Control

“Absolutely. Our society is a free
society. A university, of all our in-
stitutions, should be completely clear
of suppression and censorship. A
university should not engage in the
business of thought control.”

Blood Boils

With that, my conservative Wash-_
ington and Lee blood began to boil.

Beads of sweat began to stand out
under my conservative Washington

and Lee collar. I ordered a round.

of tall ones.

“Well, so what else is new?” I)

Finally asked in an attempt at cheer
and serenity.

My friend was not to be detoured
down the avenue of pleasantries and
idle talk, however. He went on, dis-
playing all the venom of a thorough-
ly disillusioned senior.

A Free University

“So, you don’t think a university
should be free,” he shouted.

“Free?”

“Free.”

“What do you mean free,” I asked
nervously. More sweat trickled down
the conservative collar.

Freedom Absolute

“Freedom is absolute. Freedom is
not to be adjudicated by the arbi-
trary censor. Freedom is American.
Freedom is full and frank discus-
sion of ideas. Freedom is something
Washington and Lee cannot have a
complete share in as long as un-
popular views are denied outlets of
expression.”

Ideas Too Much

The combination of strange ideas,
too much cigarette smoke and too
many tall ones created a dizzy feel-
ing in my conservative head. I ex-
cused myself by telling my friend
I would think about his theories and
discuss them later.

Back to my room... finish “keep
busy” classwork...serenity, tran-
quillity ...“don’t rock the boat”
type music... the perfect place for a
W&L gentleman, far away from
thoughts of academic freedom.

 

Or is it?

 

 

versity faculty members are taking
part in the 55th annual meeting of
the Southern Society for Philosophy
and Psychology Apr. 11-13 in Miami
Beach, Fla.

Dr. William M. Hinton, head of the
university’s psychology department;
Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, assistant
professor of psychology; and Dr.
Harrison J. Pemberton, Jr., associate
prcfessor of philosophy; will attend
the meeting.

Dr. Pemberton read a paper last
night on the history of philosophy,
and Dr. Jarrard presented a paper
today in a session on physiological
psychology. Dr. Hinton, a past pres-
ident of the society, is acting as
chairman of two joint sessions of the
society.

 

Notice

Because of the Publications

Board elections, there will be no |

meeting of the Friday Staff of the
Ring-tum Phi this week.

The Ring-twm Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed 4 the Journalism Labo-
ratory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.

 

National Advertising Service
60 E. 50th Street
New York 22, New York

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-

 

ington, Va., under the act of Marct.
8, 1878.
WRF osc ssessscscsccscee ee ees Andrew Nea
Business Managet..........0000 Ed Holmes
Managing Editor................006 Steve Guild
Assistant Managing Editors..............0
a... Ken Lane, Julian Markham
Executive Editor................. c. C. Flippen
BRE TRIG E. ocscascesseeetsisnaces ..Lew Mogeau

   
   
  

News Editor. Jim Ledbetter
Cartoonist... ain Tompkins
Copy Editor. ..Larry Meem

Whit Fitzpatrick

Associate Editor....
Photographers

ee .. Bill Bowen, Don Campbell
Columnists....Pete Altord, Frank Young,
Tom Rains, Bob Hart,
Honts,

Fenn,

Bill Boardman,
Dave Montgomery,

San
Bill

 

George

some member of your family will be
involved in a traffic mishap before
your driving days are over!

Does the figure seem too high?
Then consider this fact: the vast
majority of this nation’s annual
10,000,000 traffic accidents involve
people with good driving records.

According to studies made by the
Market Forge Company, makers of
“Mark Fore” adult child auto safety
belts, only two out of ten accidents
involve habitually reckless or irres-
ponsible drivers. Eighty per cent—
or 8,000,000 accidents yearly!—in-
volve the usually proficient, normally
conscientious, comparatively acci-
dent-free group known as “good”
drivers.

What are you doing to protect
yourself and your passengers from
accidents? As a start, here are
fifteen ways to make yourself safer
on the road:

 

| of you, but the car in front of that

one. Veteran truckers make a prac-
| tice of “driving 1,000 feet ahead” —
| that is, observing everything that’s
| going on 1,000 feet in front of them
' in order to spot irregularities in traf-
fic patterns.

2. Train yourself to watch the
left front wheels of oncoming cars.
That way you can anticipate sur-
prise turns before the other guy
swerves into your lane.

3. Always look for an “out’—a
place to run if a sudden swerve is
necessary.

4. Have your eyes checked at
least once every two years; once
a year if you’re over 40. Eyesight
changes with the years, and the
vision you had when you got your
license may not be the vision you
have now!

6

5. Remember that legal speed is
set for ideal road conditions. When
traffic is heavy or weather conditions
poor, lower your speed. Driving too
fast for conditions is the single most
important cause of accidents.

 

6. Be particularly careful about

1.Watch not only the car in front |

pect to see. And the faster you
drive at night, the less far ahead
you can see.

7. Keep your distance—and then
some!—from the car in front. The
old rule followed by many motor-
ists—one car length for every 10
miles of speed—is all right on city
streets and ordinary roads, but
stretch it on modern high speed
highways, were rear end collisions
are a common hazard. On slippery
pavements, stretch it even more.

8. Install seat belts if you don’t
already have them. They are in-
creasingly easy to get and _ install.
Look for a bet that meets
the minimum safety specifications
set forth by Washington’s tough-
minded General Services Adminis-
tration (GSA) and the car industry’s
Society of Automotive Engineers
(SAE).

Both advocate minimum weight
stress of 6,000 lbs. for adults, and
SAE recommends 3,000 lbs. for chil-
dren. These figures are based on
what the wearer would “weigh”
at the moment of collision. Futher-
more, a lightweight (no more than
five ounces) alumnium buckle as-
sures greater comfort. But the great-
est comfort is peace of mind. Cor-
nell University researchers found,
in a study of accident reports, that
only 20.9 per cent of passengers
wearing seat belts were injured, as
against 75.5 per cent of those with-
out seat belts!

9. Accept “two for the road” in
the form of seat belts only; a re-

 

ee hetero tee fe fe ote obeofe ate ote ode ote ode ofeate ote ote ote ated

_ NOTICE

Medeor rhe oe oleae abe ole ode nde ole nee ode ote ole ote ote she nto

The Department of Journalism
and Communications presents a
film, “The Savage Eye” (Maddow,
Meyers and Strick), Monday at 7:30
p.m. in Payne 6. Interested persons
may obtain tickets at no charge
mornings in Payne 7.

 

an auto accident as the motorist
who hadn't touched a drop. In a
recent year, 21 out of every 100
drivers involved in fatal acci-
dent had been drinking—but only
seven of those 21 were intoxicated!

10. Keep your car in good shape.
Have it inspected by a competent
mechanic every six months. Keep
the inside of your car neat; things
piled on a rear window ledge block
your view, and they can become
flying missiles in case of a quick
stop.

11. Always give the right of way—
especially if the other driver is
wrong. He’s someone to watch out
for! Never pass on hills and curves
and avoid those who do.

12. On turnpike trips, keep a con-
stant watch on the speedometer;
after long hours of steady driving on
a turnpike, drivers do have the il-
lusion that the car is going slower
than it really is.

13. Drive as carefully on short
trips as on long ones—and fasten
your seat belt even if you're
only going around the corner.
Statistics show that two-thirds of
all fatal accidents occur within 25
miles of the victim’s home.

14. Avoid sudden stops. This is
your foremost protection against
being struck from behind. Get into
the proper lane for a turn as far
ahead of time as possible, so that the
driver behind isn’t invited to pass
you at the intersection.

15. Learn to spot the tip-off that
warns you where a potential accident
situation is brewing. A_ string of
cars coming toward you, headed by
a slowpoke, should telegraph the
possibility that one of them may
pull out sharply to pass. Give this
parade a wide berth. Watch parked
ears; if you see a driver at the
wheel, left front wheel turned out,
or a spurt of exhaust gas, the car
bay be getting ready to pull in front
of you. Move your foot from acceler-
ator to brake.

 

 

 

BROWN.
A NEW BASEBAL
BAT FOR MY

 

Bey
BIRTHDAY!
55) a
eae
i . f
fence
Thy

/ 00K, CHARUE \

I GOT

T CAN HARDLY \f WHOS NAME

WAIT FOR NEXT iS ON iE
L || [SEASON TO MICKEY MANT.E ¢
/ | | TRY IT OUT! J\ WILLIE MAy.'S?

ao
CORA fer

oD
e 4— & >) ” a
QE et

“~~. . A \

<>
.

 

 

. in . ”
[T SAY So, RACHEL CARSON

 

- / =
gam |e
\he 4 4 *c* N
os ia = 4 f |
"as Ly es
ery Pm
i 7 ’ {v Ar
cw pe orcs
= :
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Teams End Spring Drills

Lacrosse Wins One
As Towson Beaten;
New Hampshire Next

The varsity lacrosse team found
it rough going in the Baltimore area
last week but still managed an en-
couraging win over Towson State to
bring home the season's first league
victory.

Every year the Generals travel
to the Baltimore-Washington area
during the vacation to test their
early strength and shake out any
problems that may hamper play
during the regular season.

The afternoon of March 30 saw
some of these problems appear
W&L was forced to take a stinging
defeat from an experienced Hofstra
squad 10-1.

Slow to start, the Generals were
hit with three goals in the first
half but hung on strongly as Doug
Morrison scored W&L’s first goal
of the season. While both teams
controlled the ball equally in the
first half Hofstra took over in

as

the second, scoring seven to the *

Generals’ none. Hofstra’s greater
depth and swiftness appeared to
he the deciding factor as the Gen-
erals’ midfield tired and the at-
tack found the goal-mouth dis-
turbingly small.

But after several days practice
W&L came to life against Towson,
scoring twice early in the game.
But at the half it appeared that the
Generals would again bog down as
the score stood deadlocked at 3-3.
Team effort proved the day-saver
as the third quarter saw a show of
defense that gave Towson only one
goal and ended in five W&L scores.
The final frame appeared to be ripe
for a Towson come-back but the
Generals froze the three goal out-
burst one short of an upset.

(Continued on page 4)

  
 

 

A slight disagreement on the face-off with Towson State.

 

 

Frosh Edge Episcopal High
In Unusual Tennis Match

Washington and Lee’s
tennis team yesterday beat Virginia
Episcoual School, 4'2-4, in an un-
usual match played in Lynchburg.

It happened this way: before the
contest began, the opposing coaches
agreed that in case of a draw when
darkness came, ending a match in
progress, the team winning the top
event would be given an extra half
a point, with the top event to be
the number one doubles match.

The two teams split the singles
matches, three apiece. Washington

 

COACH McHENRY leads lacrosse team in anxious moment

 

$10,000 TOP PRIZE

5661 other valuable prizes

Register for Treasure in your
trunk

Valuable certificate given when

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

 

freshman |

and Lee won the number one doub-
|les, VES won number three, and
Eva fell with the number two
match still in progress, and the
score tied, 517, 7-5.

The results:

Singles—Denoon (VES) def. Baur
7-5, 7-5, Taussig (W&L) def. Lee
6-3, 8-10, 6-1, Barber VES def. Case
6-3, 6-2, Clark (W&L def. Elliott
6-1, 6-4, Washburn (W&L def. Law-

son 6-0, 6-4, Bowles (VES def.
Houghton 6-4,6-4.
Doubles—Baur-Taussig (W&L)

5, Wood-
Washburn-

def. Barber-Denoon, 7-5, 7-
in-Elliott (VES) def.

Houghton, 1-6, 6-4, 8-6, Rateman-
Lee v. Case-Clark called for dark-
ness, 5-7, 7-5.

W&L, VMI Track Seek
Wins In Colonial Relays

 

trackmen from
Lee and Virginia

{| Contingents of

ious and

| Military Institute will be in Wil-|
| liamsburg tomorrow for the Colon- |

ial Relays.

Washington and Lee coach Norm
Lord is taking 15 men, among them
ace jumper Robin Kell and Lord's
top sprinter, freshman Don Casto.

“We might place in the first five,
Lord said today. He expects W&L}
ee on ities »)

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

Quick Service

 

 

 

e

your register worth up to $40 * D y f O p J? S *

HAND IRONED i :

General Tires are ONE ESSO SERVICE CENTER :

. -

Good Tires SHIRTS ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON *

. +

e ~. . t 7

SPENCER Dry Clea ning Across from the White Top Restauran *

: HO 3-4214 %

G 1 Tire C Service t
ener ire mpanv :

. a> : Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service *

536 E. Nelson St. for your convenience *

Charge Accounts Welcome $

ce

| Steen etteet Liipeeeeepepereperirireeeernreeeeeeeeees

Sete tee deeb eeededededetetegebebebdedetebdebeebdedeteeetetetettetededetotes

UConn Beats
Generals 16-6

Washington and Lee's
laden baseball team opend its home
season disastrously Wednesday, bow-
ing to the University of Connec-
ticut, 16-6.

The Generals were behind from
Brice Gamber’s second pitch in the
first inning. UConn third baseman
and leadoff hitter Rick Meisner
drove that one between the outfield-
ers in left-center for a home run.
Number two batter Dorrie Jack-
son singled, and rightfielder Doug
King homered deep to right for
three runs with no outs.
Connecticut scored once more in
the first. Second baseman Doug
Gaffney singled and scored on a
double by center fielder Tony Ma-

 

galetta. Magaletta homered in the
sixth with Gaffney aboard to run
the UConn four bagger total to

three for the day.

injury-|

 

Generals Come Back

The Generals got three runs back
in their half of the first. Leadoff
man Eric Sisler singled, Lou Paterno
walked, Ashley Allen was hit by a
pitch, and Lou Flanagan walked to
plate one run. Chuck Lane’s single
scored Paterno and Ashley Allen.

W&L tied the game in the fourth
when Sisler reached first on an error
with two out. Paterno flied to center
field, and Sisler scored when Maga-
letta dropped the ball.

UConn Explodes

Connecticut broke the game open
by scoring eight runs in the fifth,
sixth and seventh innings. In the
fifth, Magaletta reached first on an
outfield error, shortstop Lee Johnson
singled, Meisner walked, and Jack-
son singled to score three runs.
| Magaletta’s homer accounted for
‘two runs in the sixth. Meisner
opened the seventh with a single,
and Jackson doubled him home.
King reached base on an error, scor-
ing behind Jackson when catcher
Mike Haiday singled.

The UConns added one run in
the eighth on Johnson's triple and
a single by pitcher Russ Rotko. In|
the ninth, King doubled, Haiday |
singled him home, Gaffney hit a
long fly which General left fielder
dropped after a hard run, and
Magaletta doubled.

 

W&L got two runs in the ninth.
Flannagan walked and Lane sin-

| oebertoteobogerteogeteotnterteceateotetetoofoteteoteteteg

Y
4 HICKMAN’S ESSO
4
| %
4

on
| Seeteofeofe toate atente oe seo ete tent ntenteoteatesteateateg

 

US. 11 SOUTH

te ote ate ate atestetete tee

 

 

 

JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 35-2022

| Hamric and Sheridan
|
|

 

 

 

 

 

Furniture

 

WHITES’

RECORDS—PHONOGRAPHS—COMPONENTS

25 S. Jefferson St.

Music

 

 

 

Shirt Service as You Like It
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE

Southern Inn

 

 

 

 

 

 

, 4
, 4
( Open a convenient student Checking account :
: 4
> 4
; TODAY
! !
( at j
> 4
> 4
> e . 4
>
> Rockbridge National Bank
4
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation }
4
,
Ma aa aARaRBRBREDA EAA D- eee

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

gled. Chris Wigert’s pinch-hit |
single drove them home.
Connecticut starter Russ Rotko

won the game, with relief help from
Dick Baranowski in the ninth. Gam-
ber, Paterno and Brown pitched for
Washington and Lee.

Connecticut
seven.
rors,

got hits, W&L
The UConns made four er-
the Generals eight.

99
ce

The Generals lost this one on the
mound. Gamber left after six innings
with a blister on his throwing hand,
and Lou Paterno moved over from
first to do the pitching. He got
one man out, then pulled a_ neck
muscle delivering a pitch. Coach Joe
Lyles, his pitching staff totally de-
molished due to injuries, put re-
serve outfielder Dick Brown in to
throw. Brown, with no previous
experience on the mound, did his
best, but it wasn’t enough.

Allen Hurt

Starting catcher Ashley Allen was
hurt again in Wednesday’s game.
Allen twice was hit with a pitch, the
second time on his left hand. Already
crippled by a dislocated finger on the
hand, necessitating his using a
glove at bat, Allen had to leave the
game. Doug Davis finished up be-
hind the plate.

Lyle’s men must face
State Teachers Friday in sad shape.
All of the pitchers are injured,
Gamber with a_ blistered finger,
Wigert with a leg injury, Paterno
with a neck injury, Mason Mc-
Gowin with a bad shoulder, and Bill
Marmion with a pulled tendon in his
foot. All three regular catchers are
injured.

 

NOTICE

The varsity tennis team will

| travel to Norfolk tomorrow to meet

Old Dominion College in an attempt

 

 

 

 

to even its season’s record at 1-1.
ee te ae 4
; WOPSULYSEM “M £2 }
, STVINALVIA SLSLLUV }
|} SUl'lddAS IOOHOS ‘sHoog

; 40} SN 9as auI0g

>

ju! peas yim nod yeya
JINSUI O} PassaAaI SI pe sIyT

doys yoog

“YL

rrr

 

 

 

cl Alea itinerant tet td

 

RING-TUM PHI

 

| "Pesemie Meats

e

5-4 By Tigers

The Washington and Lee Tennis
team dropped its first match of the
season in a close 5-4 duel with
Hampden-Sydney, here yesterday.

Victory hinged on the first doubles
match between Captain Baker and
DeYoung of W&L and Hatcher and
Heieleg of Hampden-Sydney. The
Tigers defeated the Generals in a
hard fought match ending in a
score of 10-8, 7-5.

Coach Bill Washburn picked out
Jim DeYoung, sophomore, and
freshman Forrest Dickinson as
promising prospects for the 1963 sea-
son. Dickinson played extremely
well despite the fact that he and
Jim Mell lost their doubles match.

The Tigers brought a 2-0 record
to Lexington after defeating the Uni-
versity of Richmond and the Medi-
cal College of Virginia. This was the
Generals’ first match of the season—
the Colgate match scheduled for
March 26 was rained out.

Singles winners: Hatcher (HS) 7-

| 5, 6-3; Baker (W&L) 6-1,6-3); Hei-

| leg (HS) ¢
Castleton |

 

2-6, 6-1, 7-5; Mell (W&L)
6-3, 6-3; Moyce (HS) 6-3, 6-1;
Short (W&L) 6-1, 6-1.

 

 

 

= or
Aaa

BILL BEAN
17 Court House Square

Lexington, Virginia
Phone HO 3-2141

The Prudential

INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AMERICA

a mutual life insurance company

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 to 2:30 p.m.

WELCOME

The Latchstring Is Down at
STRATFORD HALL RESTAURANT

The Robert E. Lee Hotel

where

FINE FOOD IS A SPECIALTY

FREE MOTHPROOFING

on

all dry cleaning

done at

Rockbridge Laundry and
Dry Cleaners

Store your woolen garments with Rockbridge this

summer,

Fully Insured

SSCSCHOHSSSSOSSSCOHSSHESSEOOESSSEEOCESERESCESZESEEEO EES

6 to 8:30 p.m.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 THE RING-TUM PHI
° s
Examination Schedule Law Professor Receives Grant Parties Announce Slates
Dr. Charles V. Laughlin, profes-; will mark the first time Dr. Laugh- University Progressive
sor of law in Washington and Lee/|lin has taught in an European Uni- .
May 25, 1963 through June 4, 1963 University’s School of Law, will] versity. (Comtaned Shem gage 2) (Continued from page 1)
serve as a Fulbright Lecturer at the} A member of the Washington and} Committee of the Episcopal Church.| camp counselor and a fraternity of-
University of Helsinki in Finland for} Lee law faculty since 1940, Dr.| The University Party is composed | ficer. He is a dormitory counselor
MORNING— 9:00 A.M. AFTERNOON—2:00 P.M. the 1963-64 academic year. Laughlin received his LL.M. de-j| of the following fraternities: Phi| and-vice-president of the junior
DAY Bleck Bxessinetions Consolidated Examinations Prof. Laughlin will lecture on| gree from Harvard University in| Delta Theta, Beta Theta Pi, Lambda! class. He is an Honor Roll student
2 = All sections of: American Jurisprudence and Judicial| 1940 and his J.S.D. degree from the| Chi Alpha, Kappa Alpha, Delta Up-| and is a member of Phi Eta Sigma,
System from mid-September through| University of Chicago in 1942. He| silon, Phi Epsilon Pi, Phi Kappa Sig-}| and holds a duPont scholarship.
25 May Classes at Block H—T.T.S.| Economics 102 May of 1964. His visit to Finland|did his undergraduate work at| ma, and Sibma Chi. Jim Stott, chair-| Barry Staniar, a Phi Psi junior,
Saturday 11:10 except those otherwise| English 2, 154 ; ~————| Lenox College in Iowa and George} man of the party, stated: “We feel} from Short Hills, New Jersey is a
’ | scheduled. ‘ Washington University. His princi-| that this year the University Party| Dean’s List student and a fraterni-
= a. S ring Issue pal fields of legal study are evidence] is presenting a slate of candidates ty officer. He is a member of the
27 May Classes at Block A—M.WF.| Commerce 286 and procedure. which have the ability and exper-| Student Service Society, Dance
Monday 8:25 except those otherwise] Political Science 102 Of Sh d Dr. Laughlin practiced law with|ience to best serve the interest of Advisory Committee, and has writ-
heaeueees enan oah a Washington, D.C., firm in 1929-30 the Student Body. We are sure that ten for the Ring-tum Phi.
‘ and a Chicago firm in 1930 and again if the student examines their quali-| The Progressive Party was formed
28 May | Classes at Block C_MWF| Greek 2 (B section only) | Pqises Poet from 1992 to 1938. He was professor| fications carefully they will be eleet-] this year out of the old Indepen-
i ee Gs ee cuca cae © of political science at Lenox Col-jed.” | dent, Party and several houses. of
scheduled. Mathematics 2, 6, 156 The Spring issue of Washington] lege in 1931-32. He has been admit- the \niversity Party. The member
ae pileicasaaanes ee LI ~}and Lee University’s quarterly liter- ted to practice in the District of Ariel houses of the party are Kappa Sig-
29 May Classes at Block E—M.WF. English 152 ary magazine, Shenandoah, is de-| Columbia, Illinois and Virginia. ek Wigan ik hits eas ma, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Zeta Beta
Wednesday | 10:15 except those otherwise| History 2 signed as a tribute to poet John] A graduate of the first officer can- oa wae om a " 7 to ca toe a
ashen ee es 3. : .. ary ; s sne : < appa na lgma 1
a —_— si sinensis — nanan. aS didate class of the Army's Judge week and is available in the Co-op} Epsilon, ean Nu, yon Phi Kappa
30 May Classes at Block G—M.W.-F.! History 108 Se ee — Advocate General's Corps, Dr. for seventy-five cents. Psi.
Thursday 11:10 except those otherwise at Gane Gar ae ee ee raoeu The spring edition includes poetry | ——------—— enn
, scheduled. : eg ye a Ss — serve! by Jane Gentry, a senior at Hollins
— ~ — eee wheee a aw is * April. Heutenant colonel. 4 _..,,.| college, Philip Booth, William H. Lacrosse
31 Mav Classes at Block I—M.WF.} Accounting 102 Such literary figures as Allen Tate,! Dr, Laughlin has written articles Chaplain, James McBride, and C. P (Continued from e 3)
Friday 12:05 except those otherwise| Biology 2, Chemistry 2 Robert Penn Warren, John Stewart,| for publication in several schools. Whit - x ace ‘ Wick ta aa _
; | scheduled. | Geology 2, Physics 2 Francis Fergusson and Cleanth| Prof. Laughlin, his wife and 12- sah . Se. i of Thread c i aoe | Attack men Carroll Kingelhofer,
— neat — Brooks have contributed articles year-old son will leave for Finland| ~ a eel ana = = ber Wl. | Randy Wootton, and Bob Hanky
1 June Classes at Block B—T.TS.| Military Training 2, 4, 6, 8 | spout Ransom for this issue of Shen- | sometime this summer. a _ E pa _ oe t Paul n- | accounted for five of the Generals’
Saturday 8:25 except those otherwise andoah. No announcement has been made Cesk a = = * odman eight goals with Wootton and
scheduled. = oe A selection of poems by English concerning Prof. Laughlin’s replace- 7a. gone ots hs ollie of Klingelhoffer scoring twice and
+ dan Classes at Block D—T.TS.|Classes at Block J—TTS. poet Roy Fuller also is in the Spring} ment on the law faculty. Avil, ntaniinaal hat a seins ok Hanky once. Doug Morrison also
Monday 9:20 except those otherwise| 12:05 except those otherwise oe bea nn ee ge ago pepe renetenanmienencavemenmnaceans | ae ge ee ere gnc nha ning = John McDaniel
ae "ee aa ame é . 7 ac one to the winning margin.
| Scheduled. Besecaguasgniy (Greek * J see~ in Miglish at Wadhingion and Les.| Historian To Visit Campus Tuesday at 7 p.m. for students who on Sonn Sinks pi A a 6
ion examination given at this p ; are interested in doing work of any i‘ ; P
tiene) oems by Howard Nemerov, Rich- | (Continued from page 1) wvie fev Avbil next vous the Generals met disaster, 17-7, as
| Religion 104 ard Eberhart, Reed Whittemore, Wil- ae sar tak ten Miemaes | oorreeiminnetaniaes ee they had an afternoon of mistakes.
sccm neeeaiiiasecaegg silos liam Meredith and Daniel Hoffman ; ©4Y with the theory of the — Freshman Jay Bowersox had a fine
4 June Classes at Block F—T.T.S.| French 2, 12, 152, 162, 202, 204. | are included in this issue. Nimerov, Doctrine, is probably Dr. Perkins Track day for a newcomer, scoring once
Tuesday 10:15 except those otherwise} German 2, 12 152 and Eberhart were among three, Pest known work. He is known as (Continued from page 3)

 

scheduled.

 

Spanish 2, 12, 152, 162, 202

 

STANDARD TIME FOR EXAMINATIONS 25 May through 29 May

DAYLIGHT SAVING TIME for Examination 30 May through 4 June

 

| 2 ke Ee

 

 

SUN.-MON.

v»e THE MISGUIDED MISS-
ILE OF THE RAF...

Make
Mine

i”

BRIAN RIX: CECIL PARKER

A piano

  
 

by a mem
staff, will |

remote
partment

the works

 

 

 

The hour-

munications.

Dr. Leyburn To Play
For Radio W&L

Dr.

recital by
“Pro Musica”

long program,
ber of the

in the
and
Dr.

of Beethoven,

Schuman and Debussy.

A second Lexington feature will

 

 

le Sle Me Ma Se Ba Be BeBe Ba BeBe BeBe BeBe Bate ite Be Beta Ba d,
i le le ie ie he

 

Lexington, Va.

with
WILLIAM HARTNELL be broadcast over Radio W&L at
2 gt mg 8 pm. Wednesday, April 17.
nerresteeatareneme? “Musical” will feature music by
the Moonshiners, the Lexington High

School folk singers.
ooobedesteostooofotooofoooobeoteooogeofegesefet . ele ebebeebedeoepedeoteopoteteoget
. I z
Adair-Hutton, Inc. :

vy Headquarters for Men’s Wear
y% Gifts, Items for the Home

vy Appliances

We Welcome Your Charge Account

obo ohe oh he shoo se sore eae ee ses oes wees se sealers oe or oe oe ee oe ee oe eee ae oe alee oe lee

 

 

 

James G.
Leyburn will be presented Monday,
April 15, on the
tion of Radio Washington and Lee.

por-

 

recorded
Radio W&L
»e aired over WREL be-
ginning at 8 p.m. The program will |
be presented through the university’s
radio facilities
of journalism
Leyburn will play
Schubert,

 

de-
com-

 

 

CO

 

 

Lo high performance

tires at low economy

prices for...

COMPACT
ann IMPORT
CARS

MPACT

SIZES

 

RABE OIL CO.

Phone HO 3-5012

E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

IMPORT

SIZES

poets who visited the Washington.

and Lee campus in December as part
of a special lecture series.

Robert P. Rushmore has reviewed
W.
this Shenandoah. Other reviewers
for this issue include Stephen Ste-
panchev and Dr. Harrison J. Pem-
berton, Jr., an associate professor of
philosophy at Washington and Lee.

This issue of Shenandoah is the
third under the fulltime editorship
of Boatwright since the magazine
was placed on a quarterly publica-
tion last May. Shenandoah
previously was published three times
a year under different faculty edi-
tors.

basis

Contact Lense Wearers!

Your Contact Lense should ke
cleaned every six months for
maximum comfort and clarity.
They must be cleaned ultra-
sonically.

9 West Nelson Street
HO 3$-3821

 

 

 

 

 

Sealtest
Dairy Products

Sealtest ice cream
Block and crushed ice

Party mixes—Ice cold

*

MAPLE-ROCK

Distributors, Inc.
HO 3-2168

 

 

 

 

| world today on the Monroe Doc-
trine.
In October of 1960 Dr. Perkins

H. Auden’s The Dyer’s Hand for |

| after.

$ DODGE :
3 Sales and Service :
$  ROCKBRIDGE
: MOTOR CO. 3
; *

 

 

 

possibly the leading authority in the

lectured here and was such a suc-
cess that the history department
asked him to speak here again soon

The lecture will begin at 8:30 p.m.
in duPont Auditorium. There will
be a question period following the
lecture and the public is invited.

 

CIVIC
BOWLING
CENTER

All Week

1:30 p.m.—5:00 p.m.
6:30 p.m.—10:30 p.m.

 

Bowling
Duck Pins
and
Ten Pins

14 E. Nelson Street

Lexington, Virginia

FOR RESERVATIONS
Phone HO 3-4033

 

VARNER

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECE OF FURNITURE

and POLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

We invite your business
; Member F. D. 1. C.

i i a il

 

 

 

ecient

i i i i Ln nl ll enc ten te en tl ltl tie dh

 

 

to make a strong showing in the
triple jump and high jump, where
Kell will compete,
medley relay, a montage of a quarter

mile, two 220-yard dashes, and an-|

other quarter mile. Barnes, Pearson,
Essex and Kilpatrick will run the |
four legs of the event.

 

 

Students are invited to en-
joy playing
POOL

and
BILLIARDS

at Lexington’s newest

VARSITY BILLIARDS

 

 

 

Pb eeteop eeeeoeteonopeeetesteae penton
a

 
  
 

    

PUBLIC CALL BY
SERVICE AREA CODE
MEXSOIO) np
NUMBER

Deedee nde rte obo ode ode steer ere oterde rte ole ote ole oteole

 

 

 

1957 AC Bristol, 100D, Metallic Blue,
Excellent condition, Engine Rebuilt
and new Carbs 1960, Heater, Koni
Shocks, Oil cooler. J. R. Beck, 1912
Arden Rd., Roanoke, Va.

he heehee ae feof feof we oleate ake ake ate of of nfo ae ate fe fe

R. L. Hess and Bro.

JEWELERS
Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833

*
PREEEEEEEER EEE Hh |

 

 

 

 

.

%
J
cd
*
-
-
*
*
*-
*
*

and the sprint)

 

and controlling face-offs well. W&L’s
seven goals were a team effort as
seven men accounted for the scor-
ing.

Seb eetoned tobe
LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

i Hour Dry Cleaning
= COMPLETE SHIRT SERVICE
Lonebnehebeenebebnnebod

WHAT'S
NEW

IN THE APRIL
ATLANTIC?

William Saroyan: The famed author of
Boys and Girls Together has written
four playlets for The Atlantic. A real
tour de force.

Randall Jarrell: A leading literary
critic offers a detailed analysis of some
Russian short novels by Gogol, Turgenev
and Tolstoy.

Ralph McGill: A poignant study of the
effects of sectionalism, the Ku Klux
Klan, the depression and war years on
the South.

ALSO
“Labor’s Welfare State”: In the first of
a series of labor union profiles, A. H.
Raskin looks at New York’s Local 3 of
the Electrical Workers’ union —

first union local to establish YW

   

a 25-hour workweek.

The pursuit of excel-
lence is the everyday
job of The Atlantic’s
editors be it in fic-
tion or fact, poetry
or prose. In ever-
increasing numbers,
those in pursuit of
academic excellence
find in The Atlantic a
challenging, enter-
taining and enlight-
ening companion.
Get your copy today.

 

  

CHISION

plan

AL

Put BIG flight-savings in round trips. Leave

SATURDAY for any city served by Pied-
mont. Return any SATURDAY OR SUN-
DAY within 30 days, and get a RETURN
FARE REDUCTION OF 75% !

Other typical Piedmont
Xcursion Plan round-trip fares

Knoxville
Richmond
Charleston, W. Va. ........ $19,00
Huntington-Ashland ....$23.80

All fare plus tax

From Lynchburg

servations

WASHINGTON

trie =—§2.0.70

ATLANTA

trie = $42.30
call your travel agent or Piedmont Airlines

PIEDMONT AIRLINES

 
