 

 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tun Phi

TUESDAY
Edition

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

 

VOLUME LXxIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 25, 1962 Number 1

 

Faculty
Promotions
Announced

Eight members of the Washington
and Lee faculty have received pro-
motions which were effective Sep-
tember 1.

Seven of the promotions were
announced by Dean of the College
William W. Pusey, II, while the
eighth was named by Dr. Lewis W.
Adams, dean of the School of Com-
merce and Administration.

Named full professors were Dr. C.
Westbrook Barritt, associate pro-
fessor of romance languages, and
Dr. Jay D. Cook, Jr., associate pro-
fessor of accounting. Both are Wash-
ington and Lee alumni.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling and Dr.
Cecil D. Eby, Jr., both assistant
professors of English, were made as-
sociate professors.

Instructors promoted to assistant
professors were William W. Chaffin,
English and public speaking; John
K. Jennings, journalism; and Norris
W. Eastman and E. Graham Leslie,
physical education.

Dr. Barritt, 41, received his Ph.D.
from the Universit of Virginia. He
was an instructor at Emory Univer-
sity prior to joining the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1952.

Dr. Cook, also 41, serves as head
o fthe department of accounting in
the School of Commerce and Admin-
istration. He received his Ph.D. from
Ohio State University and taught at
Denison University before coming
to Washington and Lee in 1953.

A member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since 1956, Dr. Coulling,
38, received his Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina. He has
been on the English faculties of
Florida State University and the
University of Maryland.

Dr. Eby came to Washington and
Lee in 1960 from Madison College.
Next year, he will be on a leave of
absence to teach at the University
of Salamanca in Spain under the
auspices of the Fulbright program.
He received his Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania.

Prof. Chaffin, 31, is a M.A. gradu-
ate of the University of Virginia.
A former Madison College faculty
member, he has coached Washing-
ton and Lee’s championship debate
teams for the past two years.

A former news staff member of
WDBJ radio in Roanoke, Prof. Jen-
nings, 28, came to Washington and
Lee in 1959. He was a member of the
Armed Forces Network staff in Ger-
many from 1956 to 1958. He received
his B. A. degree from Washington
and Lee.

Prof. Eastman, 28, is head swim-
ming coach and trainer for Wash-
ington and Lee’s intercollegiate ath-
letic teams. He has an M.S. degree
from Springfield College. He has
been at Washington and Lee since
1958.

An assistant football coach, Prof.
Leslie, 36, joined the faculty here in
1960. He is a B.A. graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee and formerly taught
at nearby Natural Bridge High
School.

 

Honor System
To Be Applied

In Gymnasium

Student body president Tim Ire-
land appeared before the Interfra-
ternity Council last night and urged
the house presidents to impress upon
their members and pledges the im-
portance of the new interpretation
of the honor system in regard to
the gym. The new _ interpretation
states that the Honor System ap-
plies in the gym as it does elsewhere.

Ireland stated that the theft of
socks and other athletic equipment
has been overlooked in the past, but
that it will not be overlooked any
longer. The EC decided last spring
to make this clarification of the
Honor System because of the con-
fusion concerning the Honor Sys-
tem’s application in the physical
education department.

In his speech he urged the house
pledge trainers to speak to the
freshmen on the Honor System, es-
pecially emphasizing this new inter-
pretation. He again reminded the
house presidents that ignorance is
no excuse for an Honor System vio-
lation.

IFC Stresses
Assimilation

A resolution bringing to bear
the influence of fraternities in as-
similating freshmen into the student
body was passed last night by the
Interfraternity Council.

Pledge training will now include
the traditions of conventional dress,
speaking, the beanie, and keeping
off the grass.

At a meeting of the Assimilation
Committee later last night, chair-

 

 

RUSH RESULTS

 

61* ‘C2
PLOpOG SiG aie 12 26
pe 15 22
Beta Theta Pi 18
Kappa Alpha 18
Delta Upsilon 16
Phi Gamma Delta ................. 13 15
Sigma GH isscccccscisssisssavssssevssens 9 15
Sigma Phi Epsilon. .................. 21 15
PPT Pe os sacccescesincsaveisnes 14

 

  

Phi Kappa Sigma 14
cect 14
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ............ i 6
os ee 25 12
gees See 6
Pi Kappa Alphas ..c.c..cccsssscsesssees “a
eile OE sini cite scsi 2 10
Lambda Chi Alpha ................ 13 7
ee OF oe crcnasncn 4 2

*1961 numbers are from the list
published in the September 22, 1961
issue of The Ring-tum Phi.

 

man Bill Noell praised the IFC ac-
tion.

IFC president Ross Kyger remind-
ed fraternity representives to the
IFC meeting that there can be no
contact with the unpledged fresh-
men for three weeks, after which

Fraternities Pledge 252 Freshmen;
Percentage Drops From 83 To 75

Kappa Sig Gets 26, ZBT, 22 Pledges;
Delts Show Biggest Drop -- 25 To 12

By LARRY MEEKS
Associate Editor

-| A total of 252 freshmen and 3 sophomores pledged to

7

| W&L’s 18 fraternities this past weekend. Although this year’s
total of 252 is only eight under last year’s total at this time, the
| percentage dropped from 83 to 75 due to the increase in the
_| size of the freshman class.

 

   
    

 

| * Seven fraternities gained in the

 

 

NEWS BRIEFS |

Publications Tryouts Thursday

A meeting of all freshmen and sophomores interested in staff positions
on the Ring-tum Phi or Calyx will be held Thursday, September 27 at
7 p.m. in the Student Union.

Freshmen and inexperienced sophomores begin work in publications as
reporters, and are promoted by the editor in accordance with talent and
interest shown, No experience is necessary to begin work. All persons
are invited to attend the meeting. Please be prompt.

Dr. Phillips To Work on Marketing Quarterly

Dr. Charles Phillips, assistant professor of economics, has been named
to the staff of the Journal of Marketing. He is one of six college professors
appointed to work on Legal Developments in Marketing for the nationally-
distributed journal. The Journal of Marketing is distributed quarterly by
the American Marketing Association .

Joe Miller Name Contest Winner

This fall’s name contest at Freshman Camp was won by Joe Miller of
Nashville, Tennessee. He was followed by David Fleischer, Tom Day, Bob
Roberts, and Joe Priddy. The winner was presented with a W&L blanket
by the Alumni Association, and the runners-up received movie passes.

 

 

Scholarship Fund Honoring Larrick Begun

A fund of $25,000 honoring the late Herbert S. Larrick, a Winchester
attorney and banker for over 60 years, has been established at Washington
and Lee by his widow. Income from the trust will be used to provide
scholarships for students in the university’s law school.

The late Mr. Larrick received his LL.B. degree from W&L in 1897 and
began his Winchester practice in the same year .He died March 16, 1960.

 

 
   

Academic Expansion Results In

Lower Quality College Student

Academic freedom in America is
being threatened by “indiscrimin-
ate expansion” of colleges and uni-—
versities, said Dr. Russell Kirk in-
a speech at duPont Hall September |
20.

A lecturer and nationally syndi-|
cated columnist, Kirk was speaking |
at a meeting sponsored by the W&L
Conservative Society. Academic per- |
fection, said Kirk, has often been |
lost in the race to enroll more stu-_
dents. Professors and university of- |
ficials aiming for excellence have

12-Inch Album
Released By
W&L Glee Club

The Glee Club has produced a
12-inch long-playing record which
will be ready for distribution in
about two weeks.

Theme for the feature side of the
first record is “Great Choruses.” The
reverse side theme is “Glee Club
Favorites.”

The first album is entitled “The
Sixties” and subsequent ones made
during the 1960’s will carry the
same title with different selections.
Plans call for future albums to
have a feature side with current
“Glee Club Favorites” on the re-
verse side.

Included in the “Great Choruses”
feature side of Volume I are Haydn's
“Creation,” Handel’s “The Messiah”
and Faure’s “Requiem.” The reverse
side of the initial record includes
such club favorites as the Univer-
sity’s Alma Mater, “College Friend-
ships,” Greig’s “Brothers Sing On!”
and “Landsighting,’ Schubert's
Widerspruch” and J. S. Bach's
“Good Fellows Be Merry” plus two
spirituals and Ferguson’s “I Want
Two Wings.”

This first record was cut from
tapes of Glee Club Concerts. Dr.
Edward F. Turner, Jr., head of
Washington and Lee’s physic de-
partment and club recording engi-
neer, taped the performances. The
voices of the members of the Long-
wood and Sullins college choirs are
combined with the Washington and
Lee Glee Club in the chorus selec-
tions.

Albums will be available in the
university’s Supply Store and from
Professor Stewart.

The Glee Club has selected 23
new members from over 40 men au-
ditioning for positions. These new
members include first tenors Randy
Williams and Fred Taussing, and
second tenors, Dick Donovan, Chris-
topher Clark, Jeff Williams, Charles
Fishburne, Randy H. Lee, Herbert
Mitchell, and Spencer Sullivan.

New baritones are Robert Vaughn,
Lance Heillmann, Bob Larus, Scott
Lavery, Gene Hatfield, Frank Wake-
field, and Roy Tyler, Everett Rob-
erts, Dave Miller and Maurice Fliess.

Chosen for the bass section of the
club were Bruce Cooper, Sandy
Vance, Jon Neergaard, and Charlie
Jones.

 

 

Dr. Russell Kirk
The dangers of mass education.

_ professors on campuses “pretty well

| danger” to academic freedom, said
| Kirk; but the question of commun-

'in the abstract. He called
_naive” the view that complete free-

been literally driven from their
positions in the process, which Kirk
described as “by no means infre-
quent.”

The danger from mass education
is a far greater threat than the in-
filtration of communism into the
system, according to Kirk. He called
the question of allowing communist

settled.”

The question of communism is
now seldom a “clear and present

ist influence on education continues
“very

dom of expression should always be
allowed to communism. The idea, he
said, does not constitute academic
freedom. On the other hand he con-
demned those who want to forbid
any discussion of communism to
students.

Today the nature of the threat to
academic freedom is internal, said

|
|
|

 

the speaker. He accused university '
officials and faculty committees of |
lowering standards as well as of}
restraining freedom. Often, Kirk |
stated, these men speak of academic |
freedom and mean academic power— |
over students as well as colleagues. |

Kirk also pointed out the appear- |
ance of pressure groups new to
education which can stifle academic |
freedom. Labor unions and founda-_|
tions which contribute to education
were his primary targets. |
Nature of Academic Freedom

Kirk outlined two prerequisites |

for thriving academic freedom: a|
faculty consisting of temperate and |

23 Less Dibels
In Frosh Class

By SHANNON JUNG

Freshmen enrolled at W&L from
Deep South states number only 116
this year as against 139 for the same
area last year, according to figures
released by Dean of Admissions
Frank J. Gilliam.

These figures reveal a drop of 23
Southerners enrolled in the freshman
class. Excluding Virginia men, the
University has enrolled only 57
freshmen from the combined states
of North and South Carolina, Ten-
nessee, Alabama, Louisiana, Georgia,
Mississippi, Arkansas and Florida.
Fifty-seven men out of a class of
334 come from the Deep South.

The novelty of this change can
be revealed by quotes found in the
University publications: “A school

| predominantly for Southern gentle-

men...the most typical Southern
university.” That these quotes per-
tain to W&L as do the above statis-
tics is paradoxical.
CEEB Tests

Washington and Lee is the first
Southern men’s school to require
that its freshman candidates take
the CEEB Achievement Tests. Dean
Gilliam reasoned that since W&L
was the only Southern men’s school
to require these tests, many southern
boys have been “scared off.” Many
boys, fearing the implications of
this requirement, may have decided
to attend another school. Although
this program is in its first year, only
four of the twelve Test medians
fell below the 550 mark.

Southern enrollment may have
plunged, but at the same time, SAT
scores soared, College Board medians
of the class of 66 have leaped a
whopping fifteen points over last
year’s freshman medians. Figures
released by Dean Gilliam show that
the verbal median has jumped from

| 565 to 580; the math median—from

599 to 614.

Medians Improve

As SAT medians increased, the
percentage of public school candi-
dates enrolled at W&L also rose—
from 55 per cent to 59 per cent.
Private school percentage dropped
from 45 per cent to 41 per cent. The
55-45 per cent relationship had been
static for some years before this.

Of 1,332 final candidates this year,

learned scholars in search of truth| 334 freshmen have enrolled. This
and interested in encouraging stu-| represents about 25 per cent of all
dents; and a student body which is| candidates. Last year’s candidates
informed, interested, tolerant, and| numbered 1253, 319 of whom were
well-prepared. | enrolled. Of 165 aid applicants ac-

A professor, he said, must have)
student response or he will become
(Continued from page 4) |

cepted for admission, 55 were en-
rolled with aid; this represents a
one-to-three ratio.

 

size of their pledge classes from
last year and 10 dropped in number,
while only one retained the same
size. Kappa Sigma showed the big-
gest increase by jumping from 12
to 26. Delta Tau Delta, by dropping
from 25 to 12, showed the greatest
loss.

Kappa Sigma led the fraternities
numerically with a pledge class of
26; second was Zeta Beta Tau with
22. Beta Theta Pi and Kappa Alpha
tied for third place with 18 each.

The Interfraternity Council voted
last night to make the waiting period
for deferred rush three weeks in-
stead of the usual four. Eighty-two
freshmen will be eligible for the
deferred rush program, which will
begin on October 13.

The reasons varied, and current
indications seem to suggest that
many freshmen are planning to
pledge during deferred rush.

The fraternities and their pledges
are as follows:

Beta Theta Pi: Calvin Burton,
Mercer Clarke, Scott Darrah,
Thomas Day, Samuel Frazier, Ken-
neth Grinnell, William Hart, Nathan
Hendricks, Thornton Henry, Peter
Kintz, Robert Larus, Charles Liv-
ingston, Randolph Offutt, Robert
Phlegar, Joseph Richmond, Gardner
Taft, Frank Wakefield, Stephen
Yancey.

Delta Tau Delta: James Andrew,
William Andrews, Albert Baker,
Harry Brookby, John Curran, Joseph
Dennison, Lee Johnson, Joseph
Goodin, John Rutherford, Robert

Spessard, Hardwick Stuart, Roy
Tyler.
Delta Upsilon: Charles Boggs,

David Bowles, Kenneth Caro, John
Folan, John Freeman Larry George,
Lance Gifford, Edward Heilmann,
William Hunter, Frank Jones, John
Lyman, Philip Manor, Stephenson
Outhwaite, Kemble White, Freder-
ick Wood, Wayne Woody.

Kappa Alpha: Gareth Aden, Carl
Alldredge, John Atwater, James
Barber, Houston Bell, James Bower-
sox, Geoffrey Butler, Samuel Ches-
nut, Thomas Coates, Lawrance Craig,
James Crothers, Thomas Fauntleroy,
Michael Hash, Raymond Munsch,
Jeffrey Novinger, Lawrence Orme,
Richard Prezzano, William Steven-
son.

Kappa Sigma: Frank Bailey, James
James Brandon, Ralph Brown, John
Burk, Clarence Condon, Allen Dodd,
Fred Durham, Charles Fishburne,
Daniel Garrett, Gavin Garrett, Jack
Hauslein, Robert Love, John Mc-
Leod, David Mathewson, James
Murray, Charles Newman, Duncan
Osborne, Randolph Poore, Gordon
Ramseier, Everett Roberts, Sidney
Steen, Walter Stelle, Peter Torras,

(Continued on page 6)

 

Rhodes, Fulbright Scholarships, Wilson Fellowships

 

Valuable Graduate Aid Available

Applications for Rhodes and Ful-
bright Scholarships and Woodrow |
Wilson Fellowships must be com-|
pleted during the month of October, |
according to statements published
by the sponsors of the grants. |

Candidates for Rhodes Scholar-|
ships should see Professor Fitzgerald |
Flournoy not later than September |
27, in order that their names may |
be presented to the faculty meeting
October 1. Candidates should be}
seniors and should have high grades, |
as well as a marked degree of dis-|
tinction in campus activities or ath-
leties. |

Candidates may apply either in|
the district in which they hold resi- |
dence, or in any district in which|
they have received at least two years
of college training.

 

A Rhodes Scholar may choose any
course of instruction offered at

 

Oxford, and will hold Senior Status
upon entrance,

Wilson Fellowships

Dean William W. Pusey called at-
tention this week to the Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowships, and
requested that interested students
consult both with their major pro-
fessors and with himself.

The Wilson foundation each year
fully supports more than a thousand
selected Fellows in their first year of
graduate work, with the aim of en-
couraging young men and women to
consider careers in college teaching.

A Fellow receives $1,500 for the
year’s study, plus dependency allow-
ance, and the Foundation also pays
tuition and fees.

Woodrow Wilson Fellows are usu-
ally students in the humanities and
social sciences, but in exceptional
cases and when a clear preference

 

for a teaching career is demonstrat-
ed, candidates in mathematics or the
natural sciences may also be con-
sidered.

Fulbright Grants

Information about Fulbright
Scholarships may be obtained from
Dr. Charles Turner. The Fulbright
grants are government scholarships
made available for graduate study
or research abroad under the Ful-
bright-Hays Act .

Fulbright grants are administered
by the Institute of International edu-
cation and provide round-trip trans-
portation, tuition and maintenance
for one academic year in any one
of 46 countries.

Dr. Turner stated that Washington
and Lee sent two Fulbright Schol-
ars last year, of ten applicants from
the university. He said that W&L
has had as many as six in one
year in the past.
 

 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

‘A Right, A Privilege, A Solemn Responsibility’

 

The Honor System: W&L’s Most Valuable Asset

Last year, the Tuesday Edition asked Dr.
Sidney Coulling, Associate Professor of Eng-
lish, to write his ideas concerning the Honor
System.

Dr. Coulling’s efforts resulted in the fol-
lowing article, which we feel is one of the best
explanations ever rendered to the tradition
that stands as the most singularly important
aspect of Washington and Lee.

For this reason, we are re-printing Dr.
Coulling’s article. We sincerely hope that it
will be read with care by both freshmen and
upperclassmen alike.

By DR. SIDNEY M. B. COULLING
Associate Professor of English

If everyone who knows Washington and Lee well
were asked to select the single most valuable asset
of the University, I have little doubt that the choice
would be almost unanimous—our honor system.

From time to time, I know, there has been vigorous
competition from other quarters: a Gator Bowl football
team, a sensationally successful group on the radio
Quiz Bowl, an historian of international fame, a new
endowment enthusiastically applauded by educators
throughout the country.

But year in and year out it has been the honor sys-
tem, more than anything else, that has placed Wash-
ington and Lee in its distinguished position in Ameri-
can education.

It is the honor system that has made possible much
of the characteristic life of the college community,
from unproctored examinations to the unquestioning
acceptance of student checks.

It is the honor system that has helped to create
an environment in which serious intellectual pursuits
are possible and in which excellence is respected.

And, as I learned again last summer when I was
among Washington and Lee’s representatives at a
conference in Colorado Springs, it is the honor system
that attracts more praise and more interest, among
students and educators from New England to Cali-
fornia, than anything else that can be mentioned about
the University.

This is so because, of all we can boast here, our
genuinely effective honor system is the one thing that
is shared by only a handful of institutions in the nation.

Dangers of Complacency

All of this seems so obvious that it hardly needs to
be said. And yet in recent years I have increasingly
sensed that we do not sufficiently appreciate the true
importance of the honor system. Even with the scandal
of the early fifties only a decade behind us we are

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

prone to regard the honor system with complacency,
to accept it as the natural course of things, to consider
it simply as something here that is old and traditional.

Too many of us, I am afraid, are either unaware or
forgetful of what exists where there is no honor sys-
tem, casually dismissing the matter with the tired
old witticism about the faculty with the honor and the
students with the system. We tend to think that in-
evitably Washington and Lee will always have an hon-
or system, and that the loss or weakening of the
honor system “can never happen here.” Or, if I may
judge by themes I read now and then, we are tempted
to speak of “the three great Washington and Lee tra-
ditions—conventional dress, the speaking tradition, and
the honor system,” as if a student’s integrity is on
the same level of importance as his custom of wearing
a jacket and speaking to his friends.

Cheating Condoned Elsewhere

If I regard our honor system as pre-eminently im-
portant, the reason is that I have had first-hand ex-
perience with the immense problems that are created
in institutions with inadequate honor systems, or no
honor system at all.

My first teaching assignment, for example, was at
a large state university which had an honor system
supported largely by elaborate rhetorical claims. Once
when I reported a student for submitting an essay that
he had copied from the New York Herald Tribune I
caused a stir which affected the entire campus and
lasted for weeks. Although the penalty for such an
offense—failure in the course and expulsion for a sem-
ester—was clearly and explicitly stated in a book of
regulations, the student and administrative authorities
sought every possible evasion.

No one seemed too remote from the case to help de-
cide it; no testimony was too irrelevant to include.
The student’s minister at home wrote to say that his
family were pillars of the church; his dormitory coun-
selor testified that he rarely kept late hours or created
disturbances; and some of his other professors said
that in class he seemed pleasant and attentive. Even-
tually I was notified by a dean that since most of the
evidence pointed to the conclusion that the accused
was really a prince of a fellow who had somehow mis-
taken an article in the Herald Tribune for one of his
own essays, I should forget the whole matter and per-
mit the student to write another paper.

At a second institution where I taught there was not
even the pretense of an honor system, for the students
were so accomplished in deception that the faculty
and administration had long since abandoned any ser-
ious attempt to deal with the problem. One of my
students, a third-string fullback who had made him-
self valuable as the extra-point specialist, was so skill-
fully assisted in his work that only late in the semester,
and then by accident, did I discover that in reality he
was scarcely literate.

Another student was a cheater so clumsy that he
was repeating English 1 for the fourth time, but he

was beginning to learn. He came to class one day to
write an impromptu theme, pulled out an old issue of
The Reader’s Digest, and began copying one of its
articles of condensed but lasting interest. When I
challenged him he replied that he was.merely taking
notes in preparation for the paper—the paper he was
supposed to be writing at that very moment! Both of
us knew that was an outrageous lie, but both also
knew that I was utterly powerless to do anything
about it. Had I tried to take the matter to the admin-
istration I would have experienced the same treatment
which a colleague received when he attemped to press
an honor case. He was accused by his dean of being a
trouble maker and was encouraged to seek a teaching
position elsewhere.

All-importance of Honor System

However absurd such incidents may seem, however
foreign they are to our experience at Washington and
Lee, it is salutary to be reminded that such things can
and do happen every day on campuses throughout the
country. If we speak of the honor system with some-
thing other than glibness and complacency, we must
always keep in mind what the absence of an honor
system can do.

It can sap the vitality of an institution. It can make
a travesty of the whole educational process. It can
create an atmosphere of mutual hostility between
faculty and students and demoralize everyone by es-
tablishing a mood of cynicism and futility.

I have insisted on this point because I believe there
is danger in complacency. But there is a second danger,
I think, still more serious—the tendency, apparently
growing in recent years, to subject the honor system
to a scrutiny that obscures rather than illuminates.

I do not mean that we should never examine or
discuss the honor system. Certainly the lively debate
of this past spring was a good and healthful sign.
Nor do I mean that the honor system is sacred or per-
fect, that it should be immune from criticism. If there
are faults and weaknesses then by all means they
should be corrected.

But there is a difference between an examination
of the honor system that is useful and an examination
of it that is not, and I am not sure that we have always
observed this distinction.

The Meaning of Honor

In the past few months, for example, I have heard
the complaint that in applying the honor system we
face a vast difficulty because of our inability to de-
fine what we mean by honor. I hope that I am not
being semantically naive when I say that I cannot be-
lieve we have any real difficulty here. I think thta we
know in general what we mean by the word, and even
if we cannot adequately define it we at least know
what is not honest. We know that lying and stealing
and cheating are not honest, and we know what lying
and stealing and cheating are.

‘NKRUMAH NEVER DIES...’

 

 

Honor And Athletics

This year’s Executive Committee will, for the first time in
many years, enforce the Honor System in the Athletic De-
partment. In the past, the Athletic Department has been con-
sidered by the student body to be a “fringe area’? where any-
thing short of grand larceny was considered acceptable.

But “fringe areas,” with their inherent contradictions, can
do nothing but weaken an Honor System. The members of the
Athletic Department, by promising their full support of the
EC’s decision, have done much to promote the spirit of Honor

at Washington and Lee.

A Good Start

oF

IFC President Ross Kyger and Rush Chairman Tony
Schlesinger did an excellent job with Rush Week this year.
Rush rules were strictly enforced, and the schedule for the

hectic week was carried out with precision.

The future of W&L’s fraternity system may very well de-
pend on the IFC’s performance this year. If the fraternities,
acting through the IFC, cannot iron out the wrinkles in the
fraternity system, then the faculty will more than likely feel
obliged to take stern measures. The IFC is blessed with strong
and capable leadership, but without fraternity support, it is

powerless.

So let a word to the wise be sufficient. If fraternities at
W&L are to continue to enjoy their accustomed freedom, they
must accept the responsibility of sensible self-government.
The IFC is off to a good start. We hope the fraternities will
continue to provide the support necessary to keep the ball

rolling.

By MEADE CHRISTIAN

(Editor’s note: Senior Meade
Christian, Executive Committeeman
for his class, president of his fra-
ternity, and Phi Beta Kappa student,
spent eight weeks this summer in
Ghana. Sponsored by the Protestant
Episcopal Church summer work pro-
grams, Meade lived and worked with
the people of Ghana).

With 23 other Americans, I left
New York via jet July 3, bound for
Agbozume, Ghana.

A West African republic of ap-
proximately seven million people,
Ghana is about the size of Oregon.
Formerly known as the Gold Coast,
she received her independence from
Britain in 1957 and remains in the
British Commonwealth.

African Socialism

In Accra, the capital city, a beau-
tiful arch commemorates Ghana’s
independence, and on it is the in-
scription “Freedom and _ Justice.”
The country’s economy is something
called African Socialism, a term no
one could really explain to me. The
country is led by a one-party, sup-
posedly neutral government.

Among the Ghanians themselves
there are varying levels of intelli-
gence and financial income, just as
in this country. In the South, where
European influence has been felt
more strongly, education and good
living conditions are emphasized.
The dress is largely western, and
white men are a common sight.

As you travel north, life becomes
more a kin to the past. Traditional
dress is worn, the vernacular is
spoken instead of English, and farm-
ing is the main source of income.

But there is one statement that

 

The Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday durin e college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
ateny Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.

Associate Editor .
Sports Editor ..
Asst, Sports Edi
Copy Editor
News Editor.

National Advertising Service
60 EB. 60th Street
New York 22, New York
Entered as second class matter Sep-

tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

1878.
Lanny Butler

8,
Editor-elect
saneitaesiabi Roger Paine

Managing Editor..

 

Business Manager ............ Peter Agelasto

   
  

 

Asst, Managing Editor. ..........cscsssssseeees
..Tracy Harrington

Asst. Sports Editors........ Lance Tarrance

 

Intramural Editor...

TE sinsticrennnnicn Shannon Jung

BO PE icccssessenees
Bill Wilkinson...........

applies to all the Ghanians I met—
they are an extremely friendly and
hospitable people.

Highest Per Capita Income
The people of Ghana are happy
that they are independent. Ghana
was the first West African country
to gain freedom and she feels an
obligation to continue the role of

. Larry Meeks
Bill Bowen
Andy Kilpatrick
Harry Meem
Steve Smith

pace-setter. In some respects it}
rien would be good that the role be
Bill Supon| maintained—e.g., Ghana has _ the

highest per capita income of the
tropical African countries, she has
no racial problems, she is the site of

Ed Norton
..Howie Korman

 

Larry Meeks : : :
——— Morris| engineering miracles such as the
sven USS aE harbor at Tema. But the list is

The honor system was never intended to be the
object of metaphysical or semantic speculation. It is a
very practical system of assuring that honorable be-
havior shall be the rule of life here, and to introduce
into it questions which lie outside its province is to
weaken it without purpose.

A second kind of unhelpful criticism is the demand
to have the application of the honor system described
in the most minute detail, to indicate precisely the
boundary between the area where it applies and the
area where it does not apply.

We need, of course, to know where we stand, and
obviously we must state what offenses are punishable
and what are not. But there is a danger in wishing to
be too specific. Just as the desire to know exactly
what pages of the text are included in the examination
material encourages one to study only what is abso-
lutely essential, so too does the insistence on minutely
describing the application of the honor system en-
courage one to avoid any unnecessary honesty.

Again I hope that I am not being naive when I say
that I think we know the area covered by the honor
system. Its strength, we are accustomed to repeating,
lies in its not being overloaded, in its applying to a
fairly restricted and well-defined area.

But this has always meant that the honor system is
strong because it has not attempted to regulate social
conduct. It has never meant that the honor system is
strong because it does not demand too much honor of
a student. It has never meant that honor can be com-
partmentalized, that stealing in a dormitory is for-
bidden but stealing in a fraternity house is permissible.

The word integrity suggests, etymologically, whole-
ness. We cannot have this “wholeness” if our concern
is with discovering what dishonorable deeds we can
get by with rather than with being honorable in all
that we say and do.

Long Tradition of Honor

Whatever may have been their inadequacies, the
students of Washington and Lee have at least made one
great and enduring contribution that is the bedrock
of everything else. They have developed, administered,
supported, and maintained the honor system as a vital
force in the University.

If the present and future students wish to make a
contribution, they can make no more significant one
than continuing the same tradition. But one thing they
may not do. They may not regard the honor system
as their exclusive possession. It is not theirs alone. It
belongs to every student who through the years has
faithfully helped establish it as an integral part of our
lives. For this reason the enjoyment of it is not simply
a right and a privilege, but a solemn responsibility as
well,

As Ruskin said of the architecture of the past, the
honor system is not ours to do with as we please. It is
ours only to preserve.

Meade Christian Reports On Ghana

 

short— for a net has been thrown,
over the country and it is being
drawn tighter each day.

I felt this net tightening while I
was there. It is the net of totalitar-
ianism, and in this respect it is not to
the advantage of the free world that
Ghana be the West African pace-
setter.

The Convention Peoples’ Party,
Ghana’s only recognized political
party, controls the country. Under
the Preventive Detention Act of 1958,
anyone whose freedom is judged by
the party to be not conducive to
the public good can be put in prison
for five years without trial.

Opposition Dwindles

The number of members of the
opposition in Parliament has dwin-
dled to five, and these dare not be
open with their criticism.

Significantly, most of the opposi-
tion among the Ghanians themselves
lies among the educated.

NOTICES
The Drinking Rule

All studnts are reminded that
the no drinking rule will be in effect |
at Saturday’s football game between |
Washington and Lee and Lebanon
Valley.

 

 

* 5 *

Economic Community
Will Be Discussed

Prof. John Gunn of the Commerce |
School will analyze in depth the |
national debate question for this|
school year in Newcomb 8 on Thurs- |
day at 4 p.m. The topic is—Resolved, |
that the non-communist nations of
the world should establish an eco- |

nomic community.
* * * |

Meetin gs

There will be a meeting of all|
sophomores and juniors interested in|
joining the Student Service Society |
Wednesday, September 26, at 7 p.m.
in the Student Union.

The Cold Check committee will |
meet at 7 p.m. Thursday in Room |
25 of the Student Union, |

Young children are taught to re-
peat creeds including phrases such
as “Nkrumah never dies; Nkrumah
can do no wrong; the party is the
supreme law; Nkrumah is our mes-
siah.” Nkrumah is head of the Party.

Recently, an Anglican bishop in
Ghana speaking against the young
people’s group led by the govern-
ment was highly criticized and
promptly deported.

Ghana and countries like it may
undergo periods when a minority of
the population limits the freedoms
of the majority, but if there is a goal
and if this goal is kept alive by
seeing it fulfilled in a nation such as
ours, then there is real hope, and
that beautiful independence arch in
downtown Accra that reads “Free-
dom and Justice” will bear a reality
and not the mockery it does now.

 

 

Dick Kreitler

Your Philip Morris

   

IN_ THE |
BRAND ROUND-UP

| RULES AND PRIZES TO BE AWARDED
WILL BE ANNOUNCED SHORTLY

Student Representative invites you to

COLLEGE

SAVE YOUR PACKS

 

 

 

att
Morris
 

    

Se ee eee eee

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Wins 14th Straight,
Rips Hampden-Sydney, 15-6

   

Saf ld ©

DEPTH A PLENTY—Here are four good reasons why end is one of W&L’s strongest po-
sitions. From left, John Madison, Ed Croft, Buck Ogilvie, and Mike Jenkins.

 

Fall Tennis Event Opens

The University Fall Tennis Tour-
nament will get underway immedi-
ately, according to tennis coach
Bill Washburn. Play is expected to
begin Saturday, September 29 and
varsity captain, John Baker, ex-
pressed the hope that all men who
have not received a letter or a
numeral and who plan to try out for
the varsity squad will participate.
The freshmen are especially urged to
enter this contest.

This year Thomas Ltd. will award
a trophy to the winner.

Students interested in playing in
the tournament should cut out the
entry blank below, complete the
form and turn it in to the Alumni
Office, bottom floor of Washington
Hall. Telephone entries can be made
by calling HO 3-2181, extension 214.
Deadline for entries is 4 p.m. Friday,
September 28.

Drawings will be posted by noon
September 29th on the gymnasium
bulletin board and play may begin
immediately.

Eligibility

All W&L students of both Aca-
demic and Law schools who have not
received either a varsity letter or
freshman numeral are eligible.

Rules

(1) Each player is responsible for
contacting his opponent to arrange
to play the match.

(2) Each player will purchase one
can of tennis balls, with the winner
of the match retaining the unused
can of balls for his next match.

(3) Each match must be played by
the specified date posted. Should one
player fail to report for the match
at a previously agreed time, that
player shall be considered as hav-
ing defaulted. Should both players
fail to report and the match not be
posted by 7 p.m. of the final date for
that match, the entire match will be
considered as having defaulted.

(4) All matches will be the best
two out of three sets.

(5) Tournament matches will have
priority except as they conflict with
the intramural tennis schedule.
(Note: Two courts are available
even during intramural schedule.)

 

ENTRY BLANK
1962 W&L Fall Tennis Tournament

 

 

Mail or bring this entry blank to
W. C. Washburn, Alumni Office,
Washington Hall
All entries must be in by 4 p.m.
Friday, September 28th

 

Booters Tackle
Pfeiffer; Frosh,
X-C Open Play

By JIM DE YOUNG

The varsity soccer team, practicing
for the last two weeks, opens its
season this Thursday against Pfeiffer
College of North Carolina. Four
starters are back from last year’s
squad: Co-captains Bob Pagano and
Tom Clements, Steve Hibbard, and
Tom Greene, All-Opponent Team
goalie in last year’s Lynchburg tour-
nament.

This year’s team will be a young
one, comprised of sophomores and
freshmen that will soon be moved up
to the varsity by Coach Joe Lyles.

Spirit and determination will be
two of the major factors in judging
the team’s outcome this season.

* * *

The General cross-country team
is again looking forward to a suc-
cessful season with seven lettermen
returning. Coach Dick Miller, while
customarily non-committal, is hope-
ful for a season record to match or
better last year’s 7-2 mark.

The returning lettermen this year
are: senior co-captains Mike Shank
and Mac Brownlee, senior Ed Gar-
retson, junior Bruce MacDonald, and
sophomores Rick Rodgers, Andy
Kilpatrick, and Dillard Munford.

Continued on page 4)

x

By DAVE CARROLL

Washington and Lee’s win happy
football team rolled to its 14th
victory Saturday, crushing Hamp-
den-Sydney, 15-6.

The win bettered the previous
school record of consecutive vic-
tories—13—set in 1913-1914. It was
also W&L’s straight triumph without
a defeat over a four-year span.

Yoffe Romps

Fleet halfback Stu Yoffe turned in
the game’s key play when he inter-
cepted a Fred Mitchell pass in the
W&L end zone and raced 92 yards
to the Hampden-Sydney nine in the

‘ first period.

The Tigers had gained control
when they recovered a fumbled punt
at the Generals’ five. Two running
plays and an incompleteed pass had
moved them to the two before Yoffe
turned the threat into a blessing.

It took the Generals just three
plays to captalize on the Tiger mis-
cue, with Yoffe going 4 yards around
left end for the tally. Mike Jenkins
converted and the score was 7-0.

In the second quarter W&L drove
to the H-S eight only to see the
drive stopped by a stout Tiger for-
ward wall.

Second Score

Early in the third quarter W&L
struck again.

Henry Sackett was the big man on
the drive, with a 48-yard run which

20.

Five plays later Tommy Keesee
plunged over for the touchdown.
Sackett, with a good block by Kee-
see, skirted right end to make the
score 15-0.

With four minutes remaining in
the game, the Tigers finally found
the touchdown range.

Using their star fullback Lewis
Everette on two key fourth down
plays, they went 88 yards in 19
plays.

Soucek capped the drive with a
16-yard touchdown run around left
end.

The Tigers gambled for the two-
pointer, but Chuck Lane stopped
Everette short of the goal.

 

 

 

carried him to the Hampden-Sydney |

 

End Threat

With the game practically out of
reach, Hampden-Sydney tried a suc-
cessful onside kick.

But Mike Sheffey picked off a
Tiger pass at the General 40-yard
line, and W&L was content to run
out the clock.

After the game Coach Lee Mc-
Laughlin looked over this year’s
prospects.

He said that W&L does not have
the defensive potential of last year’s

 

squad—the main difference being
the absence of Terry Fohs, a mem-
ber of last year’s little All-American
team.

Coach Mac seems to feel that the
next two games against Lebanon
Valley and Emory and Henry will
be the most crucial of the schedule.

In Coach Mac’s words the team
has yet to “jell,” and could be sur-
prised by either of these schools.

The Generals open their home sea-
son with Lebanon Valley this Satur-
day at 2 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPACT

SIZES
RABE OIL CO.

Phone HO 3-5012
E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

Lo high performance

tires at low economy
prices for...

COMPACT
ann IMPORT
CARS

 

 

IMPORT

SIZES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Everything for the college student

at

Pres Brown’s

14 W. Washington

2800600888893 HH8HS8SHH8HESS8EOESES8E8E
2202888008 SSOS8SSHSOHTSOEHHSEOHHOBSSEOHOS

Sporting Goods Gym Clothes

Camera Department

Toys

Novelties Sportswear

» 2 & @
» © © &

Skiing Equipment Gifts

Many College Gifts and Novelties including Sterling and Gold
W&L Charms

Welcome Freshmen

OPEN YOUR CHARGE ACCOUNT

Welcome Back Old Students

 

DIXON’S

Esso Service Center

 

ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

HO 3-4214

 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS

 

 

Wash
Grease

Lube

Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Pledges Named By Fraternities

(Continued from page 1)
Charles Walker, Frank Young, |
Randy Jones (sophomore).

Lambda Chi Alpha: Harold Lav-
ery, John Lewis, Milton Mann, |
Robert Schaeffer, Robert Scheelen, |
Randolph Williams, Buskner Wood- |
ford.

Phi Delta Theta: John Baber, |
Robert Barclay, Richard Daesener,
William Deyo, Charles Hammann,
Samuel Harper, Michael Lawrence,
Daniel Lindsey, Lewis Miller, Eric
Sisler, David Smith, Jan Turner.

Phi Epsilon Pi: Kenneth Bern-
hardt, James Bock.

Phi Gamma Delta: Kent Roberts,
Robert Beard, Earl Berry, Francis
Carter, Wesley Horner, James Hum-
phries, Kenneth McGraw, Henry
McNeil, Peter Manson, David Mar-
chese, John Moore, John Morgan,

Houston Park, Charles Roadman,
Robert Vaughan.
Phi Kappa Psi: David Copher,

Francis Covueci, Shaun Donahoe,
Michael Goode, Theodore Larson,
Robert Lee, John Miller, Edwin
Moffett, Douglas Morrison, James |
Newman, Mark Owen, James Red- |
enbaugh, Thomas Robertson, Wil-|
liam Wood .

Phi Kappa Sigma: George Bokin-
sky, Thomas Corse, George Dickin-
son, Richard Donovan, Robert Duck-
wall, Edwadr Fitzgerald, John Hens-'
ley, Stephen Kimes, John Madeley, |
David Miller, Joseph Priddy, Hugo
Rutherfurd, Henry Terry, Bill
Evans (sophomore).

Pi Kappa Alpha: Ralph Beard,
Edward Cahoon, Don Casto, Walter
Colquitt, Joseph Framptom, Leo
Kelly, David Kirkpatrick, Roger
Sennott, David  Shufflebarger,
Charles Suter, James Taylor, Rich-
ard Wiggs.

Pi Kappa Phi: Paul Balich, Frank
Brown, James Buckey, Carson Car-
lisle, Burt Carnahan, Gerald Coff-
man, Edwin Gordon, Timothy Keith,
John Kelly, James Leanos, Gerald
Shivly, Thomas White, John Wil-
liams, Norris Wright.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Charles
Akre, Robert Brickhouse, Edward
Crosland, Robert Culpepper, Clai-
bourne Darden, Harry Goodheart,
Charles Griffith, Thomas Kelsey,
William Staniar, Henry Staunton,
Edgar Sydnor, William Washburn,
Burt Phillips (sophomore).

Sigma Chi: William Baker, Robert
Bruce, Castle Freeman, John John-
son, Frank Kennedy, John McMur-

 

LEEEEEEE EEE EEE SEES

ry, Charles Montgomery, Robert
Orr, John Palmer, Sidney Parham,
Robert Phillips, Nicholas Ruffin,

 

X-Country Season Opens

(Continued from page 3)

The season opener will be against
perennial foe Pfeiffer College, Satur-
day, between the halves of the foot-
ball game.

 

|

 

 

THE

 

 

Melvin Young.

Sigma Nu: Andrew Baur, Arthur
Cavanagh, Charles Clement, James
Foley, Hayden Head, Jeffrey Hickox,
Paul Hodge, Wallace Niedringhaus,
Alfred Shapleigh, Timothy Watson.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: John Anthony,
William Clay, Michael Hayslip,
Cressman Kittredg-, Donald Line-
back, Daton Miller, John Myntti-
nen, Paul Kuante, Charles Reese,
Jerry Reeves, John Rhodes, Ander-
son Smith, James Stevens, James
Thompson, Jack Wood.

Zeta Beta Tau: Alan Abrams,
Charles Bensinger, Eric Blumbert,
Harry Dennery, David Fleischer,
Remy Fox, Marshal Gibson, Leslie
Grandis, Lawrence Hellman, Murray
Jacobson, Bruce Kramer, William
Lehman, Henry Levy, John Lifter,
Richard Margolies, Harris Malan-
sky, Frederick Mindel, Joseph
Rosembloom, Paul Schlesinger, Jef-
frey Sharlin, Stephen Sweitzer, Fred
Weiner.

'College Expansion

| Charles Sullivan, Howard Ware, |

 

(Continued from page 1)

a mere indoctrinator. The student
must seek rather than ask to be
told.

The foundation of academic free-
dom is the natural right of those
interested in truth, said Kirk. Al-
though there is no legal or contract-
ual basis for it, “academic freedom
naturally appertains to the academic
occupation.” When this law is dis-
regarded, Kirk said, “you curtail
genuine learning.”

Infringement on the academic
freedom of the students was mini-
mized by the speaker. He said that
it exists very little in the United
States ,although there is little stu-
dent freedom in some other coun-
tries.

Kirk supported the administration
of loyalty oaths to professors and
students, calling the requirement a
mark of honor. He saw no challenge
to freedom in a loyalty oath of
“dignified and general character.”
He condemned “badly phrased” or
frequently administered oaths.

 

eof eae feoteteotenteteodeteotestesteteteoteteogeteogeteoeogetecogeobegedeobegeobeteobedeseobeteotestetetese

ae Geet oe ert oe ete ote enone nee oe ote ents ote of eve ote see veo eaten oe oe ode ere obese eo serene

«Campus Classic...

You Don’t Have To Guess

when you select your fall clothes from

DEAVERS

We carry all the name brand merchandise
you wore at home

Manhattan Shirts
McGregor Sportswear
Nunn-Bush Shoes
Bass Weejun Loafers
Inter-woven Hose
Resistol Hats
Munsing Underwear
Swank Jewelry
After-Six Formals

The place to go for the brands you know

J. Ed. Deaver & Sons, Inc.

Main Street

 

With University

Crest and Buttons

: COLLEGE TOWN

eote ote fete fe ote ote ote oe ote oberon eaten ote eaten steers oe ote ne ote esrb ofr sented ese oer seat ee ode bende deie odode ede deo tere

setobeetebeetelededobdedeletebdebedeledetletuetoledetlettedeguledondenaedetatteas

 

SHOP

 

 

OOOO ee ee eee

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

 

See us for all your
DRY CLEANING
and the best
SHIRT LAUNDERING

in town

 

2 N. Jefferson Street
(Adjacent to Campus)

CALL:
HO 3-3622

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AEE er UREN Ee un UH eR Rr HU ETCH ORT rE er UME ry ne Ee Te URE Se

 

a

 

;

UHUUIVUUOUUNQUOOUHNUOOGSNUOOAGONUEOUGSUEUOGGSUOUAOOOOEOOUAHUUOOAEEOUAUUA AAA

{E

WELCOME W&L STUDENTS

Lloyd Bowling
ESSO SERVICE

We realize that W&L Students are an important

part of our community, and we appreciate this fact

Open 24 Hours
WRECKER SERVICE TRUCK

Charge Accounts

Checks Cashed
Any Hour

Phones:

HO 3-6203

(UNUMOUUULLLAQQUQUU0000U444QQ00000000000000000000000000000000EUEUUUEOEEQOEREOOUUUUOGOOOUORUUUOUOOOOOEEEUUAELUUQUEEUUEA AAU

HO 3-3221

204) 0H UUUU0UU0N0U00N 000000000 000UUUEUUUEUUOEUEUUUEOOUUUOOEUOEU AEGEAN

SAM UUNNUUUUUUUALUUUUN

STUUUUULVANNUNNUUUNNQNUOUUSNQQQ000UDUUVOOOEUUUAOOOOUUUUOOOQOOOUGOOOUUOEEEUAUEOUAUAOOAAVEEUO AAO HALAAAE

iF

 
