 

  

FRIDAY
Edition

YOR

g

Rin

o

Ses sie

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

IN TOUGH :

   

ST

FRIDAY
Edition

 

VOLUME LXxIII

Post Critic
To Deliver
Address

An authority on forensic
medicine and the radio and
television critic of the Wash-
ington Post are to speak here
at Washington and Lee Mon-

dey:
Dr. Murdock Head, chairman of
the Institute of Forensic Medicine

at the National Law Center, George

Washington University, will speak
on “Medicine, the Law and the
Press.” Dr. Head is a dentist, a doc-

tor of medicine and a lawyer hav-|,

ing received degrees in these fields
from the University of Louisiana,
Vermont, and George Washington.

Warrenton Man

The 38-year-old Warrenton man
is also the author of numerous mag-
azine articles and director of the
Airlie Foundation, an establishment
in Warrenton which serves as con-
ference headquarters for numerous
organizations. The foundation has
produced a number of professional
films.

Dr. Head will speak at 8 p.m. in
Payne Hall 6. His lecture will be
open to the public.

Topic

“Broadcasting and the Wasteland”
will be the theme of a talk by
Lawrence Laurent, radio and tele-
vision critic and editor for the
Washington Post. His lecture is to
be given at 4:45 p.m. in Payne 6.
It is also open to the public.

Laurent has been radio and tel-
evision editor of the Post for the
last nine years. His columns also
appear in the Los Angeles Times.

He came to the Post in 1951 as..
a sports reporter. Two years later
he became a general rewrite man,
and in 1953 was named television
editor.

He is one of the authors of
“Television’s Impact on the Amer-
ican Culture” published in 1956.
Laurent also contributed to “The
Eighth Art” which is being pub-
lished this month.

He has written several articles for
national magazines.

Journalism

Both of the speakers are being

brought to W&L under the auspices

 

of the Department of Journalism
and Communications.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 9, 1962

Six Vice-Presidents Are Selected
For Fancy Dress Dance Weekend

AdditionsjA re Scheduled
For This Year’s Ball

President, and Andy Nea.

  
   

THE VICE-PRESIDENTS of Fancy Dress, from left to right, front row: Doug Campbell,
Ralph Wiegandt, Lee Jeter, Tom Woodward; back row: Jim DeYoung, Ham Emory,

 

W&L Debaters To Attend Meets
At South Carolina And Virginia

This weekend for the first
time in Washington and Lee
history, two separate debate
trips will be taking place on
the same weekend. In_ all,
twelve debaters, three com-
plete teams, will be involved
in these trips.

The affirmative team of Sam
Frasier and Chuck Reese and _ the
negative team of Tabor Novak and
Ed Fitzgerald will travel to the
Carolina Invitational Tournament
being held at the University of
South Carolina in Columbia.

 

Seminars In Religion
To Be Held Next Week

Dr. O. Hobart Mowrer, a re-|
search professor at the University |
of Illinois, will be guest speaker |
here November 13 and 14.

In a series of two lectures, Dr. |
Mowrer will discuss “Conceptions of |
Man in Contemporary Psychology |
and Theology” under the auspices |
of the Seminars in Religion program. |

The departments of religion and
psychology and the University

 

 

Dr. O. H. Mowrer
UCA guest lecturer

Christian Association are sponsoring
Dr. Mowrer’s lectures.

On Tuesday night Dr. Mowrer’s
topic will be “The Psychology of
Guilt and Redemption.” The
Wednesday night discussion will
concern “The New Group Therapy.”
Both talks will be given at 7:30
p.m. in duPont Auditorium.

A former professor of Harvard
and Yale Universities, Dr. Mow-
rer has written more than 100
articles in research and _ profes-
sional journals in addition to
three books on psychology.

Dr. Mowrer is currently a fore-
most authority on the learning
theory. He is primarily a research
professor but spends much of his
time on lecture tours across the
country.

Washington and Lee’s Seminars in
Religion program was inaugurated
in the spring of 1960. It is an off-
spring of and replacement for Re-
ligious Emphasis Week, which was

abandoned in 1961,

“The purpose of this change,”
stated Dr. Louis B. Hodges Assist-

ant Professor of Religion, “was to |

explore the relevance of Christian-
ity to other fields of academic in-
quiry.”

Last year, the first season of the
Seminars in Religion, two series

Boulding lectured
and Religion” and Dr. Joseph
(Continued on page 4)

There will be approximately
twenty-five colleges and universities
participating in this tournament.
These schools include such peren-
nial debate powers as Dartmouth,
Kentucky, Miami University, and
West Point. In the past Mr. Chaffin,
W&L’s debate coach, has entered
varsity teams but this year is com-
peting only on the novice level. The
tournament will consist of six rounds
spread over two days.

Two other novice teams will be
traveling to Charlottesville Friday
afternoon for a tri-meet at U.Va.

Bob Hart, Berny Shapiro, Shan-
non Jung, and John Moore make
up one team going to Charlottesville.
Another team consists of Alex Taft,
Rene Reixach, Paul Hodge, and La-
mar Lamb.

Besides W&L and U.Va., Rand-
ticipating in the tri-meet.

Tournament to be held here next
weekend, Nov. 16-17, promises to
be one of the big events in the
school debate year. Not only will
this be the largest debate tourna-

of the Board of Trustees held

President Cole named _ to
the CEEB’s governing and policy-
making body in 1959 when he
was academic vice president
Tulane University. He became Wash-

was

tember, 1959.

 

CEEB

| The College Entrance
| tion Board’s membership is com-
posed of 504 colleges and universi-

| ties, 165 secondary schools, and 41 | Trustee's
educational associations. The Board’s| was Vice Chairman Rixford K.
include administration of | Snyder,
Test,| Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.
15 subjects,| Seven new members were added to
of lectures were given. Dr. Kenneth | and other CEEB tests and examina-| the Board of Trustees for three-
on “Economics | tions; the supervision and sponsor-| year terms, and one new member

| activities
| the Scholastic
| Achievement Tests in

Aptitude

ship of numerous research projects
in fields of measurement, testing, and

 

olph-Macon College will be par-|
| urday.

The Tau Kappa Alpha Regional |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

Seesliions Cole Elected Chairman
Of CEEB Board Of Trustees

President Fred C. Cole of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity has been elected chairman of the Board of Trustees of the
College Entrance Examination Board.

President Cole, who succeeds Headmaster Frank D. Ash-
burn of Brooks School, North Andover, Mass., will serve a

two-year term. His election took place at a regular meeting
in*
New York City on October 30-31. |

|

 

at | formational and interpretive guid-

ington and Lee’s president in Sep- |

Examina- |

|

FE

ment ever held at W&L, but also
the largest T.K.A. meet ever staged
in Virginia.

Teams will be representing VPI,
Roanoke College, the University of
Virginia, Richmond College, William
& Mary, Old Dominion, and Wash- |
ington and Lee. Also tentatively:
scheduled are American College, |
Hampden-Sydney, Lynchburg Col-
lege, and Emory & Henry. Some
schools will bring more than one
team.

Plans have been made to lodge
the 110-odd debaters and coaches in
hotels and motels around the Lex-
ington area; the Robert E. Lee
Hotel will be the conference head-
quarters. Mr. Chaffin said that there |
had been some trouble getting judges
and time keeprs for the debates.

There will be two rounds of de-
bate Friday and four rounds Sat-

 

Mr. Chaffin also disclosed that
since W&L had won this tournament
for the last two years and since
the tournament is being held here, |
our teams would be entering more’

(Continued on page 4)

 

psychology; the support of the Col-
lege Scholarship Service, a central
source of data relating to student
financial aid; and publication of in-

ance materials.

President Cole’s first meeting
chairman will be held in New Or-
leans in December.

as

Other Trustees

elected at the
October 30-31

Also Board of

meeting
of at

director admissions

was appointed to fill an unexpired
term.

 

| ‘Old George’

|Major Repair

By KEN

Number 14

LANE

Assistant Managing Editor

Fancy Dress, which annually marks the highlight of the

‘ university’s social life, should

this year be taking on even

larger dimensions than ever before.
Fortified with lavish funds saved from Openings, the

Receives First

Exactly one hundred and twenty
years ago a figure of wood made
in a workshop somewhere in Lex-
ington was unceremoniously “un-
veiled” by a _ group of students
who dragged it by rope to the top
of Washington Hall and placed it
in the cupola. Today the statute
is reveringly known as “Old
George” and is a_ well-known
landmark in our country.

In 1842, Captain Walker Kahler,
a cabinet maker and resident of
Lexington, cut down a huge White
Pine from the area where Buena
Vista now stands, brought it back
to his shop and, with the aid of
a few portraits and medallions, pro-

ceeded to sculpture George. The
statue shows fine workmanship
and from all accounts is a fair

likeness. The figure is dressed in
a toga which partially hides its
military dress. In one hand is
a scroll and in the other, a sword.
The statue stands 8 feet 4 inches
high and yet contains minute fea-
tures as fingernails and wrinkles,
delicate ears and hair. The detail
is fairly remarkable, and even more’
so when one realizes that Kahle}
used only an axe, foot-adze, a draw |
knife, and a few chisles.

Strangely enough though the only
mention of the statue in any of the |
College’s old records is from the|
context of a Board of Directors’
meeting which merely gvies per-|
mission for the statue to be placed |
in the cupola. The fact is that the}
cost of the statue, which was around |
$100, was raised by a subscription |
of the townspeople. Who conceived
the idea and those who paid for
is was never mentioned. Tody the |
statue stands somewhat unsteadily
in its same spot badly eaten away |
by time. The workers must repair
it up there because they’re afraid
it will break apart if moved. There
is a rotten hole in the statue’s side |
and the inside is now almost com-
pletely eaten out. The hollow in-
terior is being filled in by gluing
small wood blocks onto others.
Fortunately, the outside features
need little or no repair. One pleat
in the robe must be replaced, but
the hands and face are in decent
condition. What was _ originally
planned was to cover the statue in
a fiberglass coat. But this would
hide the equisite detail of the
statue. It was finally decided to
spray on a much thinner coat of
plastic material, which will have to
be renewed from time to time. In
any case after this major overhaul,
further deterioration of “Old
George”” is highly unlikely for a
long time to come.

 

Ten WGL Students Apply
For Fulbright Grants

This year ten Washington and
Lee students are applying for Ful-
bright Scholarships. They are J. M.
Campbell, R. T. Edwards, J. D. Far-
quhar, R. G. Holland, J. W. Ivey,
H. E. Jahneke, J. A. Lackmann,
W. B. Lowry, J. F. Refo, and W. Y.
Ronaldson. |
The winners of these scholarships
awarded year abroad to do
graduate work in their major fields,
all expenses paid. They may choose
(Continued on page 4)

are a

 

 

——* Dance Board is going all out to make

the 1963 Fancy Dress an unforget-
table one for years to come.

“The entertainment promises to
be some of the most high-powered
W&L has seen in a long time,” com-
mented FD President Ham Emory.

Helping to insure the weekend's
success, Emory added, will be sev-
eral important innovations which the
Dance Board is planning to make.
These will include revisions in both
the cocktail party and the evening
dance.

Emory, a Phi Kap senior from
Virginia Beach, Va., has also an-
nounced his six vice-presidents:

Jim DeYoung, a Phi Kap sopho-
omore from Kenilworth, Ill., will be
in charge of decorations. DeYoung
is a house officer and is also on the
Ring-tum Phi, Southern Collegian,
and Varsity Tennis.

Ralph Wiegandt, a Phi Kap senior
from Williamstown, Mich., is in
charge of miscellaneous. Wiegandt is
president of his fraternity and a
member of Scabbard and Blade and
the “13” Club.

Andy Nea, a Phi Gam Senior from
Williamsburg, Va., is in charge of
publicity. Nea is Editor-in-Chief of
the Friday Ring-tum Phi.

Tom Woodward, a PiKA sopho-
more from SSuffolk, Va., is in charge
of invitations. Woodward is on the
Conservative Society and manager
of Varsity Basketball.

Doug Campbell, a Phi Kap senior
from Harlan, Ky., is in charge of
the cocktail party.

Lee Jeter, a Phi Gam Senior from
Altavista, Va., is in charge of the
figure. Jeter is on the Dean’s List
and a member of A.E.D.

Emory further stated that infor-
mation concerning costumes will be
released in the Ring-tum Phi next
week,

The Fancy Dress Ball will take
place Friday evening in the Com-
mons. Providing the souds will be
Count Basie and his orchestra and
the Tiger Town Five.

The Dance Board has selected
the “Civil War” as the theme of
the dance. Frank Young, President
of the Dance Board, stated that
students will not have to rent cos-
tumes for their dates since formal
evening gowns will be appropriate.

iA)...
GENERALS

SEWANEE
Page 2

THE RING-

TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Alford Comments On
Flicks, VMI, Palms

By PETE ALFORD
Friday Columnist
“A woman’s chastity is a sty in
the devil's eye.”

Actually the above quotation is
an old proverb and forms the step-
ping off point for
an excellent Berg-
man  fiick, The
Devil’s Eye, which
was shown at the
Lyric Theater this
week. Now show-
ing there’ are
Thunder Road
with Robert Mich-
um and The
World by Night.
Being presented
at the State is
Kid Galahad in which the Elvis
dukes it out in the ring and sings
up his customary storm.

VMI DEPT. Much has been writ-
ten lately about the chances of
peaceful coexistence with the sol-
diers across the way, Risking the
label of “apathetic” we must admit
that we haven’t given a great deal
of thought to the subject with the
Cuban Crisis, Congressional elec-

 

Alford

We really didnt want our palm
read, but we couldn’t pass up the
cut-rate. Madam Day, The Healer—
A Gifted Palmist said the ad. If
unhappy, discouraged, a failure in
business and love, this message is
for you, the ad continued. If you
are sick or in trouble see Madam
Day. If you are blind, crippled,
or otherwise disabled see Madam
Day. This was too much to go un-
explored so we ventured by Madam
Day’s.

MADAM DAY DEPT.

Well it seems Madam Day, her
husband John Day, and their three
children have picked up and moved
on to Washington, D.C. We learned
from neighbors that they were a
real gypsy family who had come
from South Carolina and set up
shop in Charlottesville and Lynch-
burgh before coming here. We
learned that Madam Day offered a
$2 and a $4 job, but couldn’t find
out the difference in the higher
priced reading. Apparently there was
no great demand for palmists in
Lexington so they left in pursuit
of a more favorable location and
life goes on in Lexington without

Law Student Recounts Summer
At Guantanamo Naval Station

With the peak of the Cuban crisis
passed, relief has become com-
pounded with confusion as negotia-
tions for denuclearization go into
the first stages. One of the centers
of dispute is the leased U.S. Naval
Base at Guantanamo Bay in east-
ern Cuba. Castro, in his recent at-
tempts to snarl the dismantling
procedures, demanded the evacua-
tion of this base as one of the
prerequisites for his cooperation in

 

these matters. Guantanamo has been

a focal point throughout the crisis;
it was off limits to U.S. newsmen
until last Wednesday.

Jim Howe, a second semester sen-
ior law student, spent a part of last
summer in Guantanamo as a pilot
and Maintenance Officer in the
Ready Reserves. He also spent a
month there, during his active duty,
in 1957. Despite his two weeks stay
there in August, the recent activities
came as quite a surprise to him.

Jim describes the base as a dry,

 

Calyx Picture Schedule

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12

1:10—Christian Council..........:::00........

1:15—Concert Guild

7:30—House Manager's Association.....
7:30—Calyx Stall ooi..cccccctscstseeens

8:00—Executive Committee

 

Se Episcopal Church

nan Washington Hall
ae Student Union
SL Calyx Office
Executive Committee Room

 
 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13

1510—Varsity CIO...
ee

1:30—Cold Check Committee.

700 Law Meview... an
7:30—Board of Governors....................05

 

pee Doremus Gymnasium
see Payne Hall

. Student Union

oe Law Library
ie Law Library

FE ODK Room
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14
1:10—Student War Memorial Scholarship Fund Committee.................... Co-op

rough, station about twenty miles
square. It is overgrown with cactus
and surrounded by a barbed wire
fence twenty-five miles long. Out-
side of the fence there are Cuban
troops dug in and apparently ready
to fight, though nothing ever hap-
pens.

Isolated

In spite of the rough terrain, it
is a comfortable base; there are
adequate recreational facilities, in-
cluding six outdoor movies, skin
diving, fishing, and sailboating, which
Jim took advantage of during his
stay there. “Guantanamo is a very
isolated base,’ he explained. “When
I was there earlier, we were allowed
to go off limits and take trips to
Guantanamo City, where we saw
Batista’s men walking around with
guns and bullet holes in many of
the walls. Havana is about 400
miles away, and with the new re-
gieme, everyone must stay on base.
They try to take your mind off the
isolation by giving you lots of re-
creation.” He added that besides the
restriction to the base, there were
no apparent changes since his earlier
stay.

Two Groups

Jim divides the thousand or so
Cubans who work on base into two

those who live off base and com-
mute by buses. “The ones who stay
on base are very anti-Castro and
very afraid to go back,” he re-
marked. “I’m sure that many of them
were involved in the revolution. The
others don’t care. On payday Castro
agents stop the buses outside of the
fence and make them get off. They
cash their paychecks for them, turn-
ing them into Cuban currency—and
incidentally keeping a portion for
themselves. The workers don’t com-
plain.”

Water Supply

In regard to the current situation,
Jim said that there was no indi-
cation of the missile buildup, either
through official sources or rumor.
He gave his own opinion as to why
the dependents were evacuated
when the crisis broke; “The water
supply is off base, and Castro cut
it off when Kennedy made his an-
nouncement. The base depends on
this and it was probably the primary
reason why the dependents were
brought back.” They were given
permission on Wednesday to talk
about events at the base; previously,
the dependents were not allowed to
reveal anything about Cuba at all.

Only Harbor
The purpose of the installation at

 

the services of

tions, and the situation of having
Gifted Palmist.

to pay for beer can openers occu-
pying our mind. Since apparently
some people are striving for better
relations with VMI, it seems in-
congruous that the IFC is planning
to pass a resolution which will bar
all Cadets from W&L fraternity
parties except by invitation.

SEE LEXINGTON DEPT. Being
of sound Yankee stock and there-
fore, always keeping an eye out for
a bargain, we were intrigued by
an ad in a recent R-t P which of-
fered a palm reading for half price.

  

 

PEANUTS

HALLOWEEN 1S OVER!
I'VE MISSED [T !!!

Madam Day—A/ 7:30—Dance Board Advisory Council

 

 

FB FANN oat

 

groups: those who stay on base and

Guantanamo does. not threaten
security; it is primarily a harbor
for Naval ships enroute and a train-

 

    

co
Tm hog. U.S Pet OF AN rights reserved
Cope. 1962 by Untied Fecture Syndicate, ine

  
  

YOU BLOCKHEAD, 00 VE KEPT
ME UP ALL NIGHT WAITING |
FOR THE “GREAT PUMPKIN,

ANDO HE NEVER CAME!

i

   
      
 

   

    

  
     

 

   
 
 

   
 

      
   
 

 

tier
a 25

gO) Sa CS
KAT Ser

  
  

     

I DIDNT GET A CHANCE 10 GO
“TRICKS OR TREATS” !
IT WAS ALL YOUR FAULT ub

 

 

ing station for Naval pilots. It has
an excellent harbor and good fly-
ing weather, which makes it ideal
for these purposes. “Cuba is so close
to the mainland that it is not neces-

 

 

      

   

5-9 Sa
PATTISON (\ |

si >

 

 

        

 

sary to maintain a_ striking force
there,” Jim commented. He added
that in spite of Castro’s threats,
“I don’t feel that we will give up
Guantanamo. Castro is doing this
to save face; sooner or later he will
back down, just as Khrushchev did.”

 

 

 

Academic Waste: Do Grades Represent Pupil’s Talent ?

This week marks the conclusion of the Atlantic
Monthly article “Are Colleges Killing Education?”
The article, written by Oscar Handlin, has served
as the introduction to the new Friday Edition
series Symposia...

I speak now of the reconciled mass who somehow
make their peace with the system, but of the ablest,
among whom the qualities of excellence might be
be found. These young people secure an admirable
training in the techniques of the correct answer. They
learn to remember; to be accurate, neat, and cautious.
But they are rarely called on to use their ability
autonomously or speculatively, to deal with situations
in which the answers are not known but must be
discovered.

They cannot afford the sense of the tentativeness of
knowledge, of the imperfection of existing formula-
tions. Writing against the clock, they must always put
the the cross in the right box and round out the essay
with an affirmative conclusion. With what pain, if ever
at all, will they learn how to know what do not know,
how to probe alone beyond the limits of what is
handed to them, how to be creative original thinkers.
By the time they carry their diplomas away, they will
have missed an education—that experience which, by
the exposure of one’s mind to the thinking of others,
creates not answers but a lifetime of questions.

We are all sufferers by the loss sustained by this
generation of students. An open society like our
own depends in large measure upon the educa-
tional system to evaluate those who pass through
it and to channel them into the proper places in
life. If the colleges fail in the process of selection,
the young people with the appropriate talents will
not become the doctors and teachers, the diplomats
and businessmen, the physicists and engineers they
should be. When the pegs do not fit the holes, the
structure creaks.

Undue emphasis upon performance measured by col-
lege may have precisely that effect. These scores have
only a slight predictive value and are unlikely to
furnish reliable indications of future achievements.
I do not mean that high-ranking students do worse
than law-ranking ones. As a group, they do better.
But in the long run, not all A students do as well as
they should, and not all do better than B students;
there are enough dramatic reversals of form to raise
doubts about excessive reliance upon these standards.
Every teacher has seen the slow starter work at his
own pace, then suddenly discover himself and out-
distance the front-runners.

We organize the boys and girls in classes and treat
them as anonymous integers in an elaborate record
system. Yet we know that each is an_ individual
different from every other. Each has his own way of
learning. To pretend that all can be classified and
graded on the identical scale denies those differences
and does violence to reality. Above all, it puts a prem-
iuum on malleability, upon accommodation to existing
expectations, upon the qualities of getting along. The
good boy is he who matches up to his teachers’ pre-
viously formed standards. But is he the one likely to
grow into the man of achievement?

Unless he learns somehow to locate himself by
his own standards, a blast of awareness, in school
or later, will blow him off his course. My room-
mate, said the boy who was my tutee, was good
at everything; there was not a blemish on the
record at commencement. In his senior year, my
roommate took the aptitude tesis in business,
medicine, and law, did very well in all, and as a

matter of course entered the law school, having
done best in that subject. No doubt he would have
been at the head of the pack in that race also,
but in an unguarded moment my roommate al-
lowed himself to wonder what being a lawyer
would mean to him. He did not know the answer.
He did not even know how to go about finding
the answer.

In the past, the looseness and inefficiency of the
educational system provided the means for rescuing
talent in danger of being wasted. The boy whose
interests matured late or changed as he grew up
could jog along at his own rate and make up for
lost time when he was ready. But the more rigid
the system becomes, the less room it leaves for
the varient patterns of the maverick. The species,
indeed, becomes ever less likely to appear, as the habit
or desire for nonconformity is stifled. The student
totally absorbed in the race loses confidence in him-
self and accepts the premature rating as a_ valid
measure of his ability. Then the evaluation becomes
self-fulfilling. Placidly the young man tells me he
would like to be a historian, and will if he earns a
magna. If he gets only a cum, he will go into his
father’s laundry business. Life becomes a play in which
the first act determines the outcome of the plot.

As a result many of the most sensitive youngsters
simply throw up their hands. They turn their backs on
the whole process and all too often reject the values
attached to the college. They hasten into marriage,
seeking in life the reality and personal security school
does not afford them. Or they simply refuse to finish;
increasingly, the able students are among those who
leave before graduation. The stronger or more stub-
born ones stick it out for the sheepskin; the weaker
or more reflective ones break down or pull out—in
either case, a tragic waste of talent. For they were all
good when they got to college (otherwise they would
not have been admitted), and the failure is not alto-
gether theirs.

There was a boy who had been at Harvard only
one year, As a freshman in a smaller college he
had done so well, and his high school record had
been so good, that he had been encouraged to
transfer, and a scholarship had enabled him to do
so. After two semesters he was defeated and re-
fused to go on. In the interminable calculation
of pluses and minuses, he felt he was in danger
of losing sight of what he had come for, and he
wished to leave college to be educated. This is
the stuff beats are made of. Such people do better
to preserve their authenticity as persons by going
away or by abstracting themselves from the rou-
tine rather than by yielding to the pressures. Yet
the college loses by the inability to influence—
and be influenced by—them.

She is a junior of about twenty, neat and not bad-
looking; nothing distinguishes her in the rows of note-
takers in the lecture hall. Now she has found the
excuse for a conference in some question about the
reading. She talks nevrously about what is not on her
mind and then she blurts out what is. She will not
be back to finish next year. She has taken a librarian’s
job in Georgia, in a small town, where she will be
useful. Why? Nothing here seems to be worth doing
the courses she takes are all right, but she gets only
B’s in them. She has studied bits of philosophy and

SYMPOSIA...

 
   

bits of government, and she is interested in the re-
lations of ethics to politics. As she talks, life comes
back to her voice and the words tumble out fluently.
Well, why not go on with the subject next year?
It will not make a manageable thesis. It has not oc-
curred to her that one could learn outside the frame-
work of the requirements.
cS ae *

The system favors certain character types over
others, and not always the most desirable ones. For
the young man who knows when he enters that he
will be an actuary or a geologist or a patent attorney,
the learning track runs clearly to his destination and
all the stations are plainly marked. He will make few
mistakes and run few risks. Even if he is not altogether
docile, he operates within a limited framework and
wastes no time. His schooling is likely to be unevent-
ful; it may also be unadventurous and unimproving.

By contrast, those who come to college without
specifically defined goals or who change as they learn
are at a competitive disadvantage. They must make
choices along the whole route, and therefore face the
hazard of mistaken decisions. They are prone to turn
into dead ends and to need second chances. Since
what is relevant to their needs is not already marked
out for them, they may gain more from looking out
of the windows than from taking notes. Their records
will look spotty and erratic. Yet they may be growing
at every stage and may, in the end, be the better for
their mistakes than their fellows who never faltered
Society may be the loser by the failure to make room
for the recovery of such talents. We need not only
men who can get the job done, but also those who
can wonder why it needs to be done.

Under the pressure of unremitting competition,
a valuable sector of the educational enterprise
shows signs of contraction. Since the measured
blocks and units of formal instruction have clearly
defined weight, it is foolhardy to expend precious
energies upon activities to which no immediate
reward is attached. Those who waste time by the
way will lose ground in the race to the “bookers”
who concentrate on the assignments. The ten-
dency to shy away from distraction is recent and
has not gone far, but it is already ominous.

Not all learning in the college community of the
past was confined to the classroom. Often the students
taught each other more effectively than the teachers
could, gained more from extracurricular activities than
from formal classwork. The experience of writing for
the paper, or managing a team, or of singing or
playing, and, most of all, the undirected talk that
swirled formlessly through the night have a value
that cannot be recognized in grades or credits. There
will be ever less time for them as the shadow of
the examination fall across the college. Boys made
rivals by competition will be less ready to help one
another, and the immensely variegated activities of
the college as it was may dry up.

Finally, the whole process thrusts an uncongenial
role upon the instructor. His function as a teacher
becomes subsidiary to that of the grader; he is judge
rather than counselor, impartial arbiter rather than
ally of the student. That, too, distorts the meaning
of education. It destroys the intimacy of a relation-
ship in which the older person conceives his role as
that of helping the younger, in which the younger

   

can turn to the older for aid and advice without fear
of being evaluated in the process.
‘ss
There is no simple corrective to this disorder,

even were its nature clearly perceived. Much of
the difficulty springs from the unprecedented de-
mands a democratic society places upon the col-
lege. We cannot and should not halt the increas-
ing size of student bodies. We need more rather
than fewer fellowships. And college should con-
tine to play a part in career selection. These are
conditions of the value we place upon the equality
of opportunity, Only thus can we locate ability
wherever it may be found and compensate for
the ineaqualities of family background. Yet, to the
degree that we encourage these desirable trends,
our institutions will become more formal, more
bureaucratic, and more rigidly organized.

But we need not, in consequence, continue to en-
cumber ourselves with outmoded methods of evalua-
tion which frustrate the larger goals of education.

I tease myself sometimes with daydreams of how
we might break out of the present situation. A few
institutions have already separated the teaching and
the marking functions. That is as it should be, and the
result is to clarify the relationship of the teacher to
his students. It would be gratifying te appear in a
classroom where everyone was on the same side,
where there was not one to police and the others to
be policed, but all were to work toward the same end.
Evidence points to the merits of a divorce between
the essentially incompatible tasks of instructor and
grader.

That separation of tacks would, of course, make
it impossible to administer examinations and award
marks for every segment of instruction. So much
the better. No other system of higher education
subjects its students to the endlessly badgering
tests of the American college. The examinations
of French and English universities are difficult,
but they come where they belong, at the terminus
of a stage in education, And they probe not frag-
ments of courses, but the mastery of a whole field
of knowledge, and however and whenever ac-
quired, These methods cannot be simply transfer-
red to our own institutions. But they indicate
that we can safely do without the recurrent, mean-
ingless hurdles we now set in the way of our stu-
dents. We can aim at a mode of evaluation that
will judge the whole man as he leaves the campus,
not the bits and pieces of him we glimpse as he
passes through it.

Above all, we can take the heat off by leaving
these people alone. Most college freshmen are now
eighteen years old. They are men and women who
are, or should be, above all concerned with discover-
ing themselves. All these prescriptions and require-
ments, all those efforts at surveillance and discipline,
obscure the true nature of their tasks. They must
learn after their own fashion, even at the cost of
false starts, errors, and lost time. The college can
help them, if they wish to be helped, mostly by creat-
ing an environment for discovery. The faculty can
help them, if they wish to be helped, mostly through
establishing the contacts, fruitful when free, of the
more, with the less, experienced minds. But the stifling
competitive atmosphere of the race for position, which
the college itself generates by anachronistic grading
methods, has no place in that environment.

(Copyright 1962 by Osear Handlin and not to be
reprinted without permission of the author.)

 

 

 

 
ee

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Set For CAC Victory

Sewanee Challenges
As W&L Seeks
Conference Victory
A showdown battle for the foot-
ball championship of the College
Athletic Conference is on tap this
Saturday at Wilson Field, when
Washington and Lee University

plays host to Sewanee.

The Sewanee Tigers, 2-0 in the
conference and 4-1-1 overall, can
clinch the title by beating the
Generals and thus become the first

member of the new athletic con-
ference to win a championship.

A Tiger victory would also mean
an important leg on the overall
conference trophy—a_ giant 300-
pound locomotive bell — that
will go to the conference member
compiling the best records in six
league sports during the year.

The Generals, sporting a 1-0 con-|
ference mark and a handsome 6-1

record against all comers, can spoil
Sewanee’s bid, but in order to win
the conference laurels, they still
need to defeat Southwestern at
Memphis the following week.

The Sewanee-W&L clash rates
as a toss-up, although the Tigers
have mauled three common op-
ponents by more convincing mar-
gins. Both teams boast potent,
swift-striking backfields and mo-
bile, hard-charging lines. Sewanee
was tied in its opener by Millsaps,
and lost to Austin by a 10-7 mar-
gin. W&L had its 21-game un-
beaten string ended by Emory and
Henry, 38-33, but since then has
won four more,

Saturday’s game will match some
of the conference’s statistical lead-
ers, although Sewanee’s great tail-
back, M. L. Agnew, will likely
retain his total offense leadership,
ho matter how the game goes. The
190-pound junior has ground out
456 yards rushing and passed for
347 more to lead the league with 803
yards. Agnew has scored 32 points
on five touchdowns and a conver-
sion run, and he has passed for
four other touchdowns,

Washington and Lee’s chief of-
fensive threats are junior half-

 

 

Bell Trophy for Conference Winner

 

Tennis Tournament
Ends As Dickinson
Wins 6-3, 6-4 Game

The University Fall Tennis Tour-
nament came to an exciting end
this week with freshman Forest
Dickinson defeating sophomore Fred
Webb, 6-3, 6-4, in a match which
saw the lead change several times.

The trophy, an annual revolv-
ing award, is presented by Thomas
Limited. Dickinson will retain the
trophy for the rest of the year—
not being eligible for competition
next year.

Tennis coach Bill Washburn ex-
pressed satisfaction with the tour-
nament, pointing out that Dickin-
son had bested an original field of
48 contestants, upperclassmen and

 

freshmen. He also stated that some |

of the match play showed definite
potential for the varsity and fresh-
man tennis squads which get under-
way in earnest next March.

 

back Stuart Yoffe and senior full-
back Tommy Keesee. Yoffe has
averaged 8.6 yards a carry in
amassing a 440-yard rushing total,
while Keesee has carried 70 times
for 395 yards and a 5.6 average.
Although the Generals seldom
pass, Keesee did once and it
netted a 27-yard touchdown strike.

Last year, W&L won over Se-
wanee, 26-8, in the Generals’ tough-
est game.

 

Generals Defeat Guilford
In Second Half Rally

The Washington and Lee soccer
team played a sluggish first half
but sprang to life in the second to
shut out Giulford College, 3-0,
Wednesday.

With the Generals’ defense play-
ing a tight game throughout the
day, the slow-starting forward line
finally scored in the early part of
the second half. Freshman Tim
Henry took advantage of a Cuilford
miss-kick and drove the loose ball
home for the score. Halfback Bruce
Jackson then scored on an assist
by captain Bob Pagano with Henry
following with his second score and

(Continued on page 4)

 

re

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

We invite your business
Member F. D. I. C.

r
|
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
4
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>

:

 

i i lk

 

 

TMM

   
  

tS

= ‘ _
W ios!
SY ad
\N =
a ™~,
be ae
é WW

   

avail

UHVQUQUUUIUUUOOUUUUUUUUUTECUEOCUEUAU TUT EAAAUEAT UAE

CRICKETEER SUITS

head and natural shoulders

The COLLEGE TOWN Shop
UULETVUOOATVEUOUVUEOUUVUEEOUUHUEOOOUAVEUAUEOUAUUEAUAAEUALEEEAAAAULAA

above
the

crowd...

UULODUUUUUOUUUUVE TTA

=

?

 

Frosh Tankmen Show Early Power

As VMI Falls In Practice Meet

The Washington and Lee fresh-
man swimming team showed flashes
of power Thursday as they defeated
the VMI rats 53-42 in a practice
meet.

Outstanding Performers

Coach Norris Eastman cited Lee
Johnson (first place in the 200-yard
freestyle in 2.24.1, Bo Bokinsky (first
in the 200-yard breaststroke and
second in the 200-yard individual
medley), and Don Casto (first in the
90-yard and 100-yard freestyle
events with times of 25.4 and 58.7),
was especially strong for so early in
the season.

The 200-yard individual medley
was particularly outstanding with
the first three men separated by
only a single second, the Gener-
als capturing the last two places.

 

The varsity team will make their
first appearance in a practice meet
against VMI Wednesday in the VMI
pool.

Both varsity and freshman have
spent the days since the season
opened on November 1 in a period
coach Eastman laughingly calls,
“animal week.” He has confidence
that both teams will be in top
shape for their opening meets in
early December.

 

 

 

a

MEeoGe rte nfo feng ge nde ge mete ole ole ofe ofe ae ofe ofeofe ole nde ofa afoot
-

   
    
    
     

 
 
   
 

PUBLIC CALL BY
SERVICE AREA CODE
VIRGINIA AND

PASS Oy

SSF NUMBER

&
Qari
seoberfoobrfeteobogerteotetetespolteteotetetestoteteopers

   

    
 

RING-TUM PHI

Aggressive And Consistent Play
Rates Athlete Of The Week

Bruce Jackson has been chosen
by the Washington and Lee coach-
ing staff as this
week’s “athlete of
the week” for his
outstanding play
as the soccer team
shut out Guil-
ford, 3-0.

In the left half-
back slot, Bruce
demonstrated fine
defensive and of-
fensive play
: throughout the
Jackson game, and high-
lighted his performance by scoring
a goal in the fourth quarter.

Coach Lyles especially noted the

value of Jackson’s heading as one
of the keys to his play-breaking

 

ability. Lyles cited Jackson’s block-
ing of an indirect kick by Guilford
as the “saver of a shutout” for the
Generals.

Offensively throughout the sea-
son Jackson has been instrumental
in setting up the wings, Hibbard
and Busse. Bruce is credited with
five assists so far this season.

Lyles says that Jackson gives
confidence to both the linemen and
the backs with his controlling play.
The fullbacks are able to give in
and commit themselves because they
are sure that Bruce will be there if
they miss the offensive man.

Jackson has more playing time
this year than any other member
of the soccer squad, which reflects
his value to the team and excellent
physical conditioning.

 

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SALUTE: JACK ALLSUP

Jack Allsup (B.S.E.E., 1957) is District Construction Fore-
man of Southwestern Bell in Pine Bluff. He manages the
construction of outside plant facilities in the entire south-
east Arkansas area. Quite an achievement for a young
man only five years out of college.

Jack has earned this new challenge! He’s performed
well on other assignments ranging from Installation Fore-
man to Defense Projects Engineer for Western Electric.

 

 

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

TRY OUR NEW TAKE OUT SERVICE
Southern Inn

On this latter assignment, Jack was borrowed from South-
western Bell for duty in the voice circuit design group of
the vital Project Mercury Program where a number of

his original ideas were adopted.

Jack Allsup and other young engineers like him in
Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help
bring the finest communications service in the world to
the homes and businesses of a growing America.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

TELEPHONE MAN-OF-THE-MONTH
Page 4 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Placement Interviews Fulbright Scholarships TheRing-tum Phi | Three Debate Tourneys ? NOTICE

 

 

 

 

 
   
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| students interested in careers in
| acounting, auditing, or management
services.
Additional information on the pro-
+, .%,

grams of the various companies | ante ote fe ogee teat ote ote ae ate ate ate ate ade ate ote fete fe afeate
listed can usually be obtained in| eeeeeeceesesoooesocoeses = a are ERNE

the Placement Office. :
= IDEAL

imaw@wkearé BARBER SHOP

Quick Service
SUN.-MON.
WILLIAM LILLE
HOLDEN: PALMER

|| | Pesce Siok THE
: FEIT

year’s fatal accidents on the

HAND IRONED Pennsylvania Turnpike have

SHIRTS been caused by bad tires.
SPENCER

GENERAL TIRE CO.

536 E. Nelson

: *riday Editi Freshman mid-semester grades
(Continued from page 1) _ Friday Edition — Scheduled Next Week oe ae ' do ide
1" : fc ies will hav 2 ha ; ‘ The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues- ; can be obtained from faculty a
The following a bg hissed a of eg Gi ssger ig orreeta among 46 countries. day and ay during the college year. (Continued from page 1) visors on Wednesday, November 14
representatives on 1e ashing- usiness, University icago, — is printed by the Journalism Lano- : - 5 6
as 1 phy + = me will ys rj . i d ' vag aa ill wnbeochaa __| ratory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-| for experience than to win. The| Thursday, November 15, 1962.
ton and ee campus during the wi meet with students interested The program was founded in| versity. The mailing address is Box das . hi rarsity debaters, Al Freshmen professors cannot give
week of November 12 to interview|in pursuing the degree of Master) 194g by foreign countries which | 8% 1exington, Va. See a ao individual students their grades
juniors and seniors who may be/of Business Administration or the! 5wed the United States = National Advertising Service Eckes and Bill Noell, will not even =
d : XY 1€| owed the United States money from 60 KE. 50th Street he entered in the debate $$$
interested in careers with their or-| degree of Doctor of Philosophy in} World War Il. They offered to aw York &. Mew York es = _— mas " =
ganizations. oe : the Graduate School of Business. grant scholarships as partial pay-| sntered as second class matter Sep- “Our main focus in this tourna-_ Soccer
Appointments for interviews must Tuesday, November 13 ment of their war debts. Since then, tember 20, 1946 at the, Post Office, Lex- ment,” said Mr. Chaffin, will be | (Continued from page 3)
be _, in a in the Place-| 4 representative of the Ashland| the foundation has expanded great- as act of March) hospitality and courtesy.
ment ice, Washington 25. Oil & Refining Company will meet} ly. Editor sessseressrseseneneneneie Andrew Nea| Other than W&L, the perennial| the last of the day for W&L.
Monday, November 12 with students interested in a career In past years, Washington and | Business Manager... Ed Holmes} powers of this area have been The Generals are now 6-1-1 on
> RT Siucelsid ‘Ansisiont in market research and_ sales| Lee has never failed to have at Editorial Board Richmond College, William & Mary, the season having lost only to the
= = : analysis; sales and service; or ac-| least one student qualify in the | Managing Bditor............. suuSteve Guild] and U.Va. Chancing a prediction, | S¢mi-pro Army team of Fort Lee.
counting and auditing. program. Last year, two were | Assistant Managing Editors................. Mr. Chaffin favored Richmond on| Today they meet King College in
' Da Seka Ken Lane, Julian Markham Bristol, T .
Wednesday, November 14 accepted out of ten who applied. Beocutins BGP cs C. C. Flippen| the 17th. ristol, Lennessee.
es ees i. Sports ELitor........sssssccssesssseesess Lew Mogeau = ae
A_ representative of the Centrall py, Charles W. Turner is in News Editor. i Ledbetter
a. a. ; ed 4 a 7 ‘opy Editor. * Harry Mee
7% a ee aoe 7 meet with charge of the Fulbright applicants Lasieiate hd rit Fucsatrick
students interested in foreign areas| f,, sak : ‘ss Cartoonist........... Tain Tompkins
LEXINGTON, VA. : Sf Se, a from Washington and Lee Columnists....Pete Alford, Frank Teuns, . °
| HOBART 3-34248 || and foreign affairs. Many types of} ——————— SSS ea e Alfor Y
? : - Tom Rains, Bob Hart, George exin ton
positions are available, from re- 2 : Honts, Bill Boardman, Sandy g a ires.
: search to foreign positions. Religion Seminar Fenn, Dave Montgomery, Bill .
SUN.-MON. Thursday, November 15 (Continued from page 1) Photographers =.= snc. Laundro Matic Some of the Turnpikes now
Arthur Anderson and Company, = = 2) ee Bill Bowen, Don Campbell are barring autos that have
Beso SRR : :
STANLEY KRAMER orem s an international firm of accountants Fletcher conducted the second series 209 S. Main i : :
' 4 dit all : "S| under the topic “Christian Ethics in Peteseseoosesesessosss es _—_ defective tires. Officials re-
and auditors will have a represen- == = ‘
SIDNEY POITIER BOBBY DARIN tative on this campus to talk to ge ago Pag - - HICKMAN’S ESSO +* port that over 30% of this
: er speakers slated by the

program this year are Dr. Kenneth
; Morland of Randolph-Macon Wo-
men’s College and Dr. Ralph Over-
man of Oak Ridge Institute.

US, 11 SOUTH

eee teehee

 

Ce ie i ie ie ie i ie ie

4

*

4

%

on 4
4

%

4

 

 

 

 

Dry Cleaning
Service

e
eo
+

 

 

UOPSUTYSEM "M EZ
SIVIAGLVIA SLSLLUV
SaliddAS IOOHOS ‘SHOO"U
Oj SN Vas BUIOD

{
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

ju peas yim nod yeyy
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

PRESSURE POINT

Released tos UNITED QZ ARTISTS

 

for your convenience

 

 

TUES. (One Day)
Khe" = ents" %h.¥
Soares 3K

 

 

 

 

 

 

}

TT
Rockbridge

 

000008 0000080000000080
serbeobeobotefooteobeopoteteobeteotepoteototeopoteseot
R. L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS
Lexington, Virginia

d4INsul OF PpesisAad si pe sy

doyg yoog

 
 
 

 
  
   

Mertertorfesferfe rent she foot

 

 

Secleteobeotestesteoteeete

 

: : : HO 3-2833 YT
3 ' rage TRAITOR Fe fe oe oe ole oe of of oe of ole ole oe of le ole afi ole of ok ole ole ols ofa ole BAA tte te tthe A Me An te Mir i Ar rts Laundry and Cleaners

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

See— Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Watch and Jewelry Repair Student Sales Representative po rpo
Hand Engraving and Class Rings :
e

ae gece epee a
————————————————————— | |p 4
K a x , Open a convenient student Checking account ; **Let one call do all”
1 “Buy your next car from a q }
ANN BLYTH: EDMUND PURDOM fellow student” , TODAY ’ s
wo sae vee o¢ MARIO. LANZA Lexington Motor Sales ; ’ TRY OUR FLUFF DRY SERVICE
This Week's Student Special , ' ; :
Sones ft at Agents in all fraternity houses
, ‘Sitak dees dee | ‘ : ; and in University Supply Store
Hamric and Sheridan Was $2195—Now $1845 if Rockbridge N ational Bank HO 3-3141
JEWELERS ; }
F 4
4
4

 

 

 

 

:

 

 

|

SIH MUU UUUTUUUULTUUUU UU UUUUUU UU

HO 3-2022 JUD REIS—HO 3-5263

 

 

 

 

 

Shirt Service as You Like It
Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Open or closed, the shirt of top merit is Arrow’s
‘Gordon Dover Club.” Comfortable medium-point,
button-down collar is softly rolled in the finest
Oxford tradition. Placket front and plait in back
are right for important occasions: Thetrimly
tailored “Sanforized” cotton Oxford cloth keeps
the standard high and assures permanent fit. $5.00. |;
Most fitting accessory is the Arrow Kwik Klip, (

 

 

 

 

HEAD OF

THE CLASSICS

"Tareyton’s Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!”

i

 

the instant knit tie with easily adjustable knot. $1.50. |)! says Titus (The Chisel) Aurelius, Ars 63 B.C. “‘O tempora! O mores!’, I used to wail,” says The Chisel,
“where today can you get a filter cigarette with some flavor? Then I discovered Tareyton—the magnum opus in

+ . cigarettes, Put a pack in your toga and enjoy de gustibus Spear eRe EIR EEE EERE,

=4ARROW- you never thought you'd get from any filter cigarette.” : }

 

Dual Filter makes the difference

DUAL aaa eyton ;

   

 

 

FOUNDED 1851
(Sraditionally the Finest: for Discriminating Men,

 

 

6 Product of Jt Aone Mbaceo Company — Jtbacee is our middle name. Gare.

 
