 

 

 

   
   
    

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 26

Tennis wins

On the road
to nationals

Page 6

=

~ &

"saute tatg, uaa

ae

§ 1987

 

f Dean leaves

 

Dean of Law School
gives resignation

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Page 3

 

Your Alumni Weekend Weather

 

 

 

~ Che Ring-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Warm temperatures,
with cloudy skies

 
   

MAY 7, 1987

 

New W&L
director
appointed

From Staff Reports

 

 

Lex O. McMillan III, director of
development at Randolph-Macon
College, has been named director of
development at Washington and Lee.

“Lex’s qualifications and talents
will be a tremendous asset to the
university’s development activities,”
said Farris P. Hotchkiss, vice presi-
dent of university relations, in an-
nouncing the appointment. ‘“‘We look
forward to the contributions Lex will
make to the university through his
experience, energy, and long-time
commitment to higher education.”

As director of development, Mc-
Millan will have operating respon-
sibility for all of Washington and
Lee’s fundraising programs, encom-
passing the Annual Fund, capital
gifts for endowment and physical
facilities and deferred gifts designed
as income-retained and estate
benefactions. Of particular impor-
tance will be McMillan’s organiza-
tion of volunteers in service to
Washington and Lee and in support of
the university’s financial needs.

A 1972 graduate of Washington and
Lee, McMillan received his M.A. in
English from Georgia State Universi-
ty and his Ph.D. in English from the
University of Notre Dame. During
his graduate studies, McMillan serv-
ed as a graduate student assistant at
Georgia State and Notre Dame and

 

Lex McMillan III

taught English at the Holy Innocent’s
School in Atlanta.

McMillan served as editor of
Amicus, a bimonthly magazine pub-
lished by the National Center for Law

and the Handicapped, from
February 1978 to September 1979.

In October 1979, McMillan joined
Randolph-Macon as director of
public relations. He held that position
until 1983, when he was named
associate director of development.
He was named director of develop-
ment at Randolph-Macon in 1986.

McMillan is a member of the Coun-
cil for the Advancement and Support
of Education and the Virginia
Association of Fund-Raising Ex-
ecutives.

Active in civic and church affairs,
MeMillan served as chairman of the
parish council and taught Sunday
school at St. Ann’s Church in
Ashland, Va. He was a member of the
Ad Hoc Train Station Committee in
Ashland, the Hanover Arts and Ac-
tivities Center, and the 125th An-
niversary Committee of the town of
Ashland. McMillan was also a mem-
ber of the parish council of St. Mat-
thew’s Cathedral in South Bend, Ind.

Alumni gather
for reunions

 

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

An ‘Early Bird Fun Run’ with
Coach Norman F. Lord and the ded-
ication of a portrait of Supreme Court
justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., a
graduate of Washington and Lee’s
undergraduate and law schools, are
among the many activities planned
for academic and law alumni classes
this Alumni Weekend.

Approximately 530 alumni from 10
reunion classes, beginning in 1937
and ending in 1982, are expected
throughout the next several days.

The weekend of partying, mingling
and more partying begins tonight at
8:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel with an open-
ing reunion assembly speech given
by Parke Rouse Jr., titled ‘Robert E.
Lee, Francis P. Gaines, and Herb the
Dog Man.”’

Rouse is a member of the Class of
1937 and currently a columnist for the
Newport News Daily Press. The
speech is open to the entire W&L
community.

On Friday at 10:00 a.m. on the
Front Lawn of Lewis Hall at the law
school, W&L graduate Lewis Powell
Jr. will be honored with the dedica-
tion of his portrait, which will hang

outside of the Moot Courtroom. More
than 400 people are expected at the
ceremony, including Justice Powell
and an entourage of family and
friends.

A half hour of music will follow at
1:30 that afternoon when the Glee
Club, University Chorus and
Southern Comfort perform on the
Front Campus in front of Lee Chapel.
From 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. tomorrow
night in Twombly Pool, alumni
challenge the varsity water polo
team.

Early risers looking for a fun and
interesting morning activity can join
Coach Norman Lord Saturday morn-
ing in an ‘‘Early Bird Fun Run’’ that
begins at 8:30 on the track on Wilson
Field. Members of the W&L com-
munity are invited to join alumni and
Coach Lord in an_ invigorating,
healthy morning workout.

For the not-so-early risers, the
W&L Instrumental Ensemble will
present a half-hour of sax and violins
on the Front Lawn at 10:30 a.m. The
concert will be followed by an alumni
reunion assembly in Lee Chapel, at
which time the distinguished alumni
awards and reunion gifts will be
presented, accompanied by remarks

C) See Alums, page 4

tan ote

 

.

By Perry 8. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

now on to Ohio

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Sports Editor

The Roanoke Maroons won when it
counted, but the Washington and Lee
Generals won when it counted even
more.

Yesterday on Wilson Field, in the
opening round of the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association’s Divi-
sion III lacrosse tournament, the
Generals avenged last week’s dou-
ble-overtime loss to Roanoke, and
they did so in a resounding fashion.
The win advances the Generals to the
second round, where they will face
the Ohio Wesleyan Bishops this Sun-
day, May 10, at Ohio Wesleyan.

Last week, you recall, the Maroons
thwarted a big Generals comeback

when Roanoke’s Rich Paulik scored
just seven seconds into the second
overtime. That victory gave the
Maroons their seventh consecutive
Old Dominion Athletic Conference ti-
tle.

This week, however, was a dif-
ferent story. Thanks to strong second
half performances by senior goal-
tender John Church and the entire
Generals defense as well as
sophomore attacker Neill Redfern
and junior attacker Pete Smith, the
Generals easily handled the Maroons
by a 19-11 score.

Despite the lopsided final score,
the first half was very close, with the
Generals holding a slim 8-7 lead at
the intermission.

The game opened with the
Generals jumping off to the early
lead, piling up a 4-1 advantage
halfway through the first period

before the Maroons stormed back to
tie the game at four by the end of the
initial quarter.

“We didn’t get behind, and that
was important,” said W&L head
coach Dennis Daly. ‘‘In our last two
games [losses to Washington College
and Roanoke] we fell behind early.
Even though they tied it after we
jumped off to a lead, we weren't
behind, and that was a big dif-
ference.”

The Generals began the second
quarter in much the same fashion as
they did the first. W&L built an 8-4
lead, but again Roanoke stopped the
Generals momentum with three
goals and cut the halftime lead to a
slim 8-7,

It was in the second half, however,
that the Generals really started to

C See Lax, page 6

Convention is a ernque experience

 

From Staff Reports

 

Legislation that would prevent the
federal government from with-
holding appropriations from states
as a way of forcing those states to
comply with federal policy was ap-
proved Saturday at Washington and
Lee’s mock constitutional conven-
tion. The states’ powers act was the
only bill out of five proposed amiend-
ments to the United States Constitu-
tion approved by the more than 500
delegates at the convention.

The mock constitutional conven-
tion is believed to be the only exer-
cise of its kind in the United States
during the year of celebration in
honor of the bicentennial of the U.S.
Constitution. Rather than reenacting
the original constitutional convention
of 1787, Washington and Lee students
and students from the surrounding
women’s colleges debated contem-
porary issues.

“The Washington and Lee conven-
tion is probably as close as this na-
tion will come to a real constitutional
convention in the forseeable future,”’
said Fred Graham, the former CBS
legal affairs correspondent who
delivered the convention’s keynote
address. Graham warned the dele-

gates that although the U.S. Constitu-
tion gives them the power to do so,
they would be unwise to consider
completely changing a document
that has withstood the various and
strenuous tests of 200 years.

“This convention has the authority
to throw out the whole document”
and start over, Graham said. ‘‘The
constitution isn’t perfect, but it has
lasted 200 years.”’

The convention was gaveled to —

order at 9:30 a.m. by Chairman Peter
Bennorth. Following welcoming
remarks by W&L President John D.
Wilson and Graham’s keynote ad-
dress, the delegates got down to
serious debate.

The first issue, the call for a
balanced budget, fell short of the re-
quired 357 delegate votes at 338 votes.
Following a prolonged and heated
debate, the right-to-life amendment
was overwhelmingly rejected by 343
delegates; 128 delegates voted in
favor of the amendment.

The states’ powers act received 377
votes in favor, while 96 delegates
voted against the amendment. An
amendment calling for a line item
veto received 283 votes in favor, but
well short of the 357 required for

0 See Mock, page 4

Jackson scheduled

for campus speech

 

From Staff Reports

 

Jesse Jackson, a candidate for the
Democratic nomination for president
in 1984, is scheduled to deliver a
speech at Washington and Lee
University at noon, Wednesday, May
13, on the Front Lawn.

As of press time, Thursday, of-
ficials with the Mock Convention had
not received a signed contract.

Jackson’s speech, sponsored by the
1988 W&L Mock Convention is free
and open to the public. In the event of
rain, Jackson will deliver his speech
in Warner Center. W&L students will
be on a shortened class schedule on
May 13 to allow them to attend the
Jackson lecture.

A native of Greenville, N.C.,
Jackson graduated from the North
Carolina Agricultural and Technical

Sheepskin’s days are not numbered

By DANA J. BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

Are the days of sheepskin diplomas
at Washington and Lee numbered?
That is a question that almost every
senior and third-year law student
asks each year.

Well, there is good news for future
graduates, according to university
registrar D. Scott Dittman. W&L has
signed a contract with a company for
about 450 of the sheepskin diplomas
through 1989.

“We must order the diplomas a
year ahead of time in order for them
to age,” said Dittman. Every year

one mene:

State University in 1964.

Jackson played an important role
in the civil rights struggle of the 1960s
and helped recruit for the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference
headed by Martin Luther King Jr. In
1966 Jackson became head of the
SCLC’s Operation Breadbasket, a
systematic boycott of businesses that
exploited blacks.

In 1969 Jackson left the SCLC to
form PUSH, People United to Save
Humanity. He recruited several pro-
minent black economists and politi-
cians to develop a concise blueprint
for attacking poverty and estab-
lishing greater equality of wealth in
the U.S.

Jackson has remained a visible

figure in national politics since his
unsuccessful bid for the Democratic
nomination in 1984. He formed the
National Rainbow Coalition, an

the university signs a two-year con-

tract for the sheepskins.

At the present time the only known
manufacturer of these diplomas is a
man in England. This year the
university has agreed to pay an
estimated $14,000 for the hides. After
this contract expires, the price is ex-
pected to rise by about $2,000.

Although some would consider this
a high price to pay for diplomas, Ditt-
man says that as far as he knows no
one at W&L has complained about
the cost of the skins. Students at
other colleges — Davidson, for exam-
ple — must pay out of their own
pockets for sheepskins.

There are, however, about eight
other colleges that still award their

 

 

Delegates talk at the convention

 

Jesse Jackson

organization of political, labor and
civic leaders dedicated to economic
justice and peace.

Jackson has played an active role
in the family farm crisis, traveling
across the country to speak in behalf
of family farmers and their need for
political clout.

In other Mock Convention news, a
kick-off party will be held next
weekend. More information will be
available next week.

diplomas on sheepskin, including
Virginia Military Institute, Williams
College and Emory University.

What some students don’t realize is
that these diplomas are destroyed
when they get wet, which can cause
problems when it rains during com-
mencement exercises. In order to
prevent the diplomas from being
destroyed, the university places
them in mailing tubes along with the
following message: THE DIPLO-
MAS ARE SHEEPSKIN PARCH-
MENT AND IF STRETCHED,
GLUED OR MOISTENED IN
FRAMING THEY WILL BE
DAMAGED. WE SUGGEST YOU
CONSULT A PROFESSIONAL
FRAME SHOP.

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L

Powell
portrait to

be unveiled

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

 

At 10:00 a.m. this Friday, W&L will
honor one of its most well-known and
distinguished alumni, Lewis F.
Powell Jr., with the unveiling and
dedication of his portrait in front of
Lewis Hall at the Law School.

Powell, a Supreme Court Justice
and former president of the Amer-
ican Bar Association, graduated
from Washington and Lee in 1929 and
from the law school in 1931.

According to law school Dean
Frederic Kirgis, two years ago the
Law Council, the governing body of
the law association, commissioned a
portrait of Powell by the same artist
who painted his Supreme Court por-
trait.

The portrait will hang outside the
Moot Courtroom in the law school.

Considered by many to be one of
the most important justices on the
Supreme Court, Powell is also
rémembered for his tenure as chair-
man of the Richmond school board
during the years the Richmond
public school systems were being
desegregated. His handling of the
transition was widely praised for its

propriety.
The dedication is open to the
public; the ceremony is scheduled

for the Moot Courtroom in case of in-
clement weather

 

 

wen mewn asi
be
tt +
2? DEVIL With A

 

o

OPINIO

resis ¥

~Ae-.

VE DRESS ON:.

  
  

 

Apathy, again

Frank Parsons, Executive Assistant to President Wilson,
was at last Monday’s E.C. meeting to discuss the new univer-
sity theatre. Not including the B.C. or the reporters, there
were under 10 students at the meeting. Shayam Menon, presi-
dent of the E.C., posted fliers around campus about the
discussion, so it was not that students weren’t informed. Stu-
dent apathy once again rears its ugly head.

The E.C. has begun having open discussions at each Mon-
day meeting in an effort to improve communication between
students and the E.C. and, in turn, between students and
President Wilson. A different issue is discussed each week,
and all students are encouraged to attend and express their
views. The E.C. meets with President Wilson on the following
Wednesday to report the opinions of the students.

This is an excellent opportunity for students to make
themselves heard. With the exception of stopping President
Wilson on campus, this is perhaps the most direct channel to

those who make the decisions.

Next week’s discussion is about W&L’s admissions policy.
Judging from the letters in the Phi lately, there are some peo-
ple with very strong opinions about the policy. Let’s hope the
turn out is better than at last week’s meeting.

Sometimes fair,
sometimes flawed

 

MY VIEW
By Chris Carter

 

In September of 1983 I was sitting
in Lee Chapel for the upteenth time in
four days. Then President of the Stu-
dent Body Bob Jenevine was speak-
ing to the new Freshman Class:
“Gentlemen (remember, this was
1983), some of you will not be with us
by December — history teaches us
this.” This solemn statement in
mind, Mr. Jenevine proceeded to ex-
plain the history of the Honor System
and to discuss our relationship to it.
History has borne Mr. Jenevine out
— every year there are some who
sever their relationship with the
University and fail to live up to the
tenets of the system. More than once,
I have spoken with people, some-
times close friends, whose friends
have had to leave the University
under circumstances related to
Honor. If the penalties exacted by the
Honor System sometimes seem
harsh for those forced to leave (not
that I would argue against the single-
sanction), they are equally harsh, if
not more so, for those who don’t leave
— the friends of the accused who find
themselves in the unenviable position
of having to reconcile themselves to
the fact that either their friend was
not who they thought he was, or that
the System which we all tout so
highly is flawed.

“The thing is, you see, that before,
whenever I saw one of those notices — A
member of the Student Body has been
found Guilty ... — I thought to myself,
‘Good! There's another one of them out
the door!’ Now I feel like a hypocrite —
I only fault the E.C. or question the
system when I know the person involv-
ed, How many others might have been
innocent? I mean, this is really bother-
ing me.”

NEWS STAFF

BUSINESS STAFF

is otherwise independent.

definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

Ne tT CER Te oer
O wereld MAMAS. occ ccccccccccccccs

Doubts like this are probably in-
evitable in our Honor System. And it
would be foolish to think that there
has never been anyone who suffered
wrongly at the hands of the Honor
System. But what then? I know some
who have allowed their distrust of the
System to consume them, who as-
sume that all those found guilty of
Honor Violations are actually inno-
cent and that justice is never served
but miscarried; I have known others
who refuse ever to think about or to
acknowledge their relationship with
a former student. Obviously, both
methods of coping actually avoid the
issue — that one’s friend might have
behaved in such a way that others
would consider dishonorable and
therefore repugnant or that the
System sometimes doesn’t work as it
should.

I can’t pose any answers to the kind
of dilemma into which this problem
throws one; rather, I feel sorry, truly
sorry, for those so thrown. There’s a
wish to play Polyanna and claim that
everything will work out for the best.
That’s unrealistic at best, unfair to
all involved at worst. What shall we
do when hurt by a System which we
whole-heartedly embrace, when forc-
ed to doubt that in which we had com-
plete faith? Address the issue. We
can become more involved with the
system itself to insure that is is work-
ing as well as is possible. And we
should recognize the complexities of
human nature Sometimes, for a vari-
ety of reasons, even those whom we
know well can act in unpredictable
and seemingly inexplicable ways.
But finally we have to keep our faith
in the System and recognize that
painful as it is sometimes, it does
serve us and generally does so well.
And those of us here, friends, frater-
nity brothers, even professors, can
say a prayer for the person who’s
gone — that maybe everything will
work out for the best in the end.

: :
Che Ring-tum Phi

£5006 4015 040604 SV eKeevanbeein Sean Bugg

Cha eeues John Pensec
Michael Tuggle

LeldiprasedevrekiaGobeceus David Emrich

ess Rhona Hughes
Seaeceedececetebecedveseece Robert Jones

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court

 

Applications
sought

Applications for the positions of
editor and business manager of
the Calyx and The Ring-tum Phi
and editor of the Ariel and
Political Review are still being ac-
cepted. Turn in your application
to Carol Calkins as soon as possi-
ble.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 7, 1987

2

 

Beach ettiquette outlined

 

MY VIEW
By Abb Jones

 

Usually this column consists of the
writer giving his/her opinion on some
topic of vital importance (and in-
terest, of course) to the W&L com-
munity. But, with it being Spring
Term and all, it’s difficult to concen-
trate on schoolwork, much less have
an opinion on anything...

At least anything but the beach.
After all, it is Spring Term, where
GPA’s fall as alcohol tolerances rise.
With the advent of intense sun, blue
skies, coconut-scented suntan lotion
and lazy Sunday afternoons comes
the unyielding desire to go to the
beach.

However, before you load up the
car for a week of FITS (‘‘fun in the
sun’’) there are a few things of which
you should take note. Since there is
no existing book on Beach Etiquette
(that I know of), some friends and I
composed a list of what we call Rules
for Beach Etiquette. (You can thank
us later.)

Here are a few printable excerpts:

1. Large middle-aged men (over 30,
I guess) are prohibited from wearing
Speedo swimsuits on the beach. [This

rule could be extended to cover (no
pun intended) large middle-aged

women in two-piece swimsuits as
well. ]

2. Persons with vast amounts of
body hair (male or female) are re-
quired by law to wear clothing on the
beach, even if it requires extra effort
while swimming.

3. Persons with extremely pale
skin (requiring suntan lotion with
SPF 20) are prohibited from public
areas until what etiquette calls a
“safe”’ tan exists. (The intense glare
from pale skin could result in severe
eye damage to other beachgoers. )

4. Obnoxious children who kick up
sand (accidentally, of course!) on
others are strongly encouraged to
play with the jellyfish that frequently
wash ashore. (Just think — there
could even be forced kiddie boxing
matches with jellyfish used as boxing
gloves.)

5. Burying friends or relatives in
the sand is discouraged unless the in-
dividual in question really wants to
be buried. (It is helpful and fun to
bury the person near the shoreline if
possible, so as to get a dazzling array
of reactions and facial expressions as
the tide rolls in to the neck-deep in-
dividual.)

6. Public displays of affection are
allowed but not encouraged. (You go
to the beach to get a tan, not to ex-
change carnal knowledge.) Of
course, state of undress and time of
day have a great deal to do with
degree of etiquette.

7. Popping towels out on the beach
to remove sand particles is punish-
able by torture (via bamboo
steamers, Ginsu knives, and other
associated Ronco products).

8. Surfer types who know only the
phrase ‘“‘Hey dude, ‘sup?”’ will not,
under any conditions, be tolerated.

9. Middle-aged men who wear jams
and Vuarnet sunglasses in a des-
perate (and futile) attempt to recap-
ture their youth should be avoided at
all costs. Like bad gas, they too will
pass with time.

10. Dogs and frisbees (and their
owners) should be neutered on the
spot, especially if the dog (or owner)
leaves surprises on the beach for un-
suspecting beachgoers to step in.
(Bet you’ve never seen a neutered
frisbee, huh?)

Well, I guess that should cover
some of the beach basics. In the
meantime, when at the beach, watch :

yourself. You never know when you'll
run into someone who is familiar
with proper Beach Etiquette.

 

 

 

LETTERS

Underachievers address admissions policy

To the Editors:

We were surprised to read only one letter last
week concerning the “‘Admissions”’ articles ap-
pearing in the prior week’s Phi. We, therefore,
respond on behalf of many students:

We were stunned to read the articles about Mr.
Hartog and his admissions policy, and we
understand Mr. Hartog’s fear of sounding ar-
rogant. However, it could be argued that it is an
accurate description. We were appalled and em-
barrassed to read the article that easily could
have appeared in the parody issue. At least the
truth’s out about the policies of the Admissions
Office. Unfortunately though, our worst fears
are realized.

Mr. Hartog et al, Washington and Lee is not a
refuge for pencil-pushing, perfect-scoring, and
straight A-making students. Rather, it is an
academic environment where intelligent well-
rounded students can get an education in life, so
they can succeed in it. Your beliefs that
achievers do not make many C’s and that
students with high ability scores and spotty
grades are underachievers are ludicrous and in-
sulting to our intelligence (although our in-
telligence may not be up to W&L’s new stan-
dards). We all have made C’s both in high school
and here at W&L. We regrettably confess to be-
ing underachievers and wish you luck in your at-
tempts to keep W&L from being stuck with
underachieving, ‘‘mental midgets” such as our-
selves.

Sincerely,

Peter Bennorth ’87 — Cold Check Chairman
(2yrs), Constitutional Convention Chairman
Sean Bugg ’89 — The Ring-tum Phi Chief Editor
Andrew Caruthers ’87 — Executive Committee

(4yrs.)

Lester Coe ’88 — Tri-chairman of 1988

Mock Convention

Marie Dunne ’89 — Gaines Hall Head R.A.,

Phi Editor

Dennis Francis ’87 — Calyx Editor, Vice Pres. of
Pub. Board

Richard Hobson ’87 — Vice President of Class of
87 (2 yrs.)

Shayam Menon ’87 — President of Student Body,
Dorm Counselor

John Pensec ’87 — Phi News Editor, Political
Review Editor

Margaret Pimblett ’89 — WLUR News Director,
Sigma Delta Chi President

Brad Root ’88 — President-elect of Student Body
Chris Saxman ’87 — IntraF raternity Council
President

Brandt Surgner ’87 — Vice President of Student .

Body, Dorm Counselor
Brandt Wood ’88 — Junior and Senior-elect E.C.
representative

MBC lady prefers ‘guys’

To the Editors:

After reading Ms. Fowler’s “‘best definition of
a gentleman” in last week’s LETTERS, I feel
very privileged to have never met one of these
cardboard cutouts at W and L, although I do
know quite a few nice ‘“‘guys’’ from that fine
school.

Andrea Spear
Class of '88
Mary Baldwin College

‘Honorable’ equals ‘flawless’?

To the Editors:

I believe that the way our system of honor is
being applied is seriously flawed. Don’t get me
wrong, I believe that our Honor System is great.
But I believe that ine student body has lost sight
of what our Honor Code stands for and what our
current White Book is designed to do.

Our Honor System was designed to protect the
members of the Washington and Lee community
from dishonorable people. Yet I believe it has
been transformed into a mechanism that is used
too often to punish honorable, trustworthy in-
dividuals for minor mistakes and infractions.
This is why it scares so many good, honorable
people.

The single sanction of expulsion should be the
only recourse we have when we determine that
an individual is dishonorable. However, our
criterion for determining whether an individual
is not worthy of our trust has become seriously
distorted. We have all made mistakes; we’ve
told the police that we weren’t speeding when we
were, that we’ve only had two beers when we’ve
had six, we’ve told that Hollins girl that we would
call her back when we had no intention to, that
we were a high school basketball star when we
were second string. We’ve told the fraternity
president that we wouldn’t be available for
cleanup because we had a conflict, when in fact
we didn’t, that we were old enough to drink,
when we weren’t. The question we must ask is if
these human frailties render us, or any one,
dishonorable. I think not.

It seems that in our desire to protect all the
good things the Honor System does for us that
we've turned the Honor Code into a punitive
device by interpreting it so strictly that it no
longer protects us. It now frightens a great many
people by the possible misuse of the original pur-
poses of the Honor Code.

Originally the input of the student generation
was supposed to be a check on this abuse. How-
ever, the students’ perception of what the Honor
Code is, is now defined for them by the current
E.C. and we feel that we are duty-bound to ac-
cept their interpretation of what the White Book
stands for, when this is the very evil that student
input is designed to check. The E.C. is not to
blame for this, because this role has been handed
down to it with no real guidance. The mistakes
simply perpetuate themselves.

A lot of law students disagree with the single
sanction; not because they want a dishonorable
person to stay in school, but because they
perceive that in many instances the E.C. or stu-
dent jury applies the sanction to punish
trustworthy people for mistakes that are not true
indications of a person’s character. I don’t think
anyone wants to fraternize with someone they
cannot trust. Not even law students.

The first question we should ask when there is
a possible honor violation is: ‘‘If this person real-
ly did this, does this render this person unworthy
of my trust? If true, would this act be compelling
evidence that this person is inherently dis-
honorable?’’ Once that question is answered in
the affirmative, then we ask, ‘‘Did the person do
it?” Too often we hear someone say, “‘Well, it’s
not that bad, I’ve done it (either while in school
or before), but she or he got caught, and you’ve
got to pay the piper.’’ Well, that’s just plain
wrong. We’re not supposed to be exacting a price
for a wrong, we're supposed to be maintaining a
community full of decent, trustworthy, and
honorable people. There are not degrees of
honor, but I believe we need to redefine what an
honorable person is in more human terms. It
seems that theft would almost always indicate a
flaw in a person’s character that is unacceptable
to our community. It is evidence of a mental
State (a disregard for others) that is intolerable.
Cheating also evidences a lack of respect for
others, as well as for oneself, that renders an in-
dividual unworthy of trust. Lying in any form is
wrong; however, it is not always a per se indica-
tion of dishonorable conduct. It is up to the stu-
dent generation to define whether a
misrepresentation automatically renders a per-
son untrustworthy. The great majority of the stu-
dent community has misrepresented themselves
at one time or another. Are we all dishonorable?
If not now, does this mean we were dishonorable
at one time, but now we have rehabilitated
ourselves? I don’t know the answer, but the
answer should not come in the form of a policy
statement from the E.C., rather, it should come
from an independent student body, free from
E.C. pressure.

I love this school, and I’m proud of our Honor
System and our long tradition of honesty and
fairness. I strongly encouraged my brother to
come to school here. I spoke to him with pride
about our Honor System, I told him not to be
afraid of it, and that it was here to protect him. I

hope that his generation applies it fairly and just-
ly. I hope they realize that honorable people can
make mistakes, and that our Honor Code is only
designed to protect us from dishonorable, not
foolish, persons. If applied correctly, honorable
people have nothing to fear from our Honor
System.

Paul A. Morrison, 87L

Check policy irks student

To The Editors:

A Washington and Lee University student

casually pulled into the Stop-In mart, across
from The Hodge-Podge, Monday the 4th at 4:30
p.m. Getting out of his car he proceeded to pump
gas into the car’s tank. After pumping the gas, he
entered the mart to pay. Upon entering, the stu-
dent was roughly received with the vicious words
of: “We don’t accept student checks after May
ist.”” The student then told them that the check
was the only monetary source he had. Where-
upon a phone call was made, and the student
soon found himself in the hands of a plain-clothed
and a uniformed officer. They were called, for
the manager believed that they could escort him
to his bank, but they soon discovered that it was
in Milwaukee, WI. Also, being now 4:50, the
banks were closed. The police further inter-
rogated the student to find out that it was still
true that he had no other money. Then, not to be
left without a good comment, the plain-clothed
asked, “‘How are you going to get back to
Milwaukee without money?’”’ Whereupon the stu-
dent informed them of these new-fangled little
pieces of paper called checks and a convenient
little bookstore/co-op that cashed them (along
with “real” stores). Then they said that they
would take him there, but seeing how it was now
5:10, it was closed. While everyone stood there,
the student stated that they had accepted his
check on Saturday — which was the 2nd — and on
his calendar that was after the ist. Then the
cashier informed him that they weren’t supposed
to, Then a brilliant idea formed and the student
asked if they could “trust” him until tomorrow
for the entire amount of $4.04 — yes four dollars
and four cents. Whereupon everyone debated un-
til they agreed and now the Stop-In has more in-
formation about the student (birth, age, social
security number, etc.) than does the United
States government. After an hour’s haggle, the
student was let go with the reminder that they
had his check, number and more. Also, the
manager made sure that the officers got a good
look at his face and confirm that they could easi-
ly identify the culprit. When leaving, the student
had visions of arrest, fingerprints, and the “big
house.” So much for the CONVENIENCE
MART!

Christian Hunter

Thanks to volunteers

To the Editor:

I would like to publicly thank the brothers of
the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and the
members of the Alpha Phi Omega service frater-
nity and the Alcohol and Health Awareness Com-
mittee for their help with the 1987 Cancer Runs,
“A Run with George Cunningham.”

The brothers of Pi Kappa Phi served as timers
and monitors for the 5 kilometer and 10
kilometer courses. The members of Alpha Phi
Omega and the Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee assisted with registration.

This year the event raised more than $1,500 for
the American Cancer Society. The race would
not have been a success without the help of these
three organizations.

Sincerely,

Patti Ryan-Mandel
Race Director

 

 
OPI

ae

Greek Week

’ enlightenment.

rearrange my consulting work for

“That, too, is good,’ Cranius

But do not become complacent.

‘| within the gates.”

‘ we when the Flood of '85 hit?”

two colleges?’’ Cranius continued.
“Yes,’’ the two said.

* fraternity. Write for the Phi.”’

 

your school and your community.
“And let the games begin.”’

ig ye

not enough
By Steven Pockrass

You'll never believe what happened on the way to the formal last
weekend. These two Greeks met Cranius Maximus, god of all

“Cranius, have you heard about the wondrous week of events that
has been planned to please the gods atop Hill Olympus?”

“Ah, yes. ‘Tis almost like the start of a renaissance,”’ Cranius said.
| “And with all the advance notice we were given, I had enough time to

NOCIRC, the anti-circumcision peo-

ple, so that I might participate in the festivities.”
“Good,” they replied, beaming broadly. ‘‘We are looking forward to
performing acts of charity while engaged in manly competition.”

replied. ‘‘It is important that the

Greeks build unity through competition, that we make non-Greeks pay
(twice) the price for being GDIs, and that we perform charitable acts.

Learn from the errors of Monty

Python, and do not count your Trojan rabbits until you are safely

“‘Whatchutalkin’bout, Cranius?”’ they asked.

‘“‘What I mean is this. Wallowing in the mud for money does not
make you rounded in the truest Greek sense. Not only must you
develop yourself intellectually, culturally, physically and emotionally.
You must develop your soul and your heart through acts of charity and
kindness. Become a little more human.” ;

“But that’s what we’re doing,” they pleaded.

“But are you?’’ Cranius asked, as a German-engineered chariot
roared past. “Whose money are you collecting, yours or your
parents’? And what sort of benefits are you receiving? Are you seeing
others smile? Are you holding their hands, helping them climb moun-
tains, making full use of your talents and abilities?”

“No,” they admitted, shaking their heads.

“Sure, we're collecting money now,”’ Cranius said. ‘‘But where were

“We gave $5,000, and ROTC did some physical labor.”’
“Yes, $5,000 from the president’s discretionary funds. And while the
* ROTC must be commended, where were the rest of us?

“Do you remember the recent town and gown meeting, which
—despite being held during VMI’s vacation — was supposed to pro-
; mote improved relations and communications among the town and the

“Was it any coincidence that W&L’s director of development was
the one who spoke about how the school contributed to the community?
His tone seemed to me almost apologetic, for all he could cite were
figures showing how much money students paid to local merchants. Is
that the best we can do, pay local merchants? Let’s hope that not
everything we buy comes from an L..L. Charybdis catalog.”

, “So what do you propose we do?” they asked.

“It’s simple,” Cranius said. “Get involved in a group such as Roger

Hildreth’s. Get involved in Alpha Phi Omega, the school’s service

, “The Phi?” they asked. ‘‘Why the Phi?”

“Because the Phi should serve as a bulletin board, an educator, a
watchdog and a forum for opinion at this university. And each week, a
skeleton staff works its coccyx off to put out the paper.”

“Isn't it too late to get started now?”

“Don’t be sophomoric,” Cranius said. “Or should that be
freshmanic? Use the spring term to help you decide what you’ll be do-
ing in the fall. Find a balance between serving yourself, your family,

 

 

Parsons
discusses
theatre

*

News Editor

, The proposed university theatre
will complement Gaines Hall and
‘could possibly form a new gateway to
Washington and Lee, according to
Frank Parsons, executive assistant
‘to the president.

« As part of a continuing effort to in-
crease communication between
‘students and the administration,
Parsons discussed the new theatre at
Monday’s E.C. meeting after the
‘committee viewed a promotional
wideo of the theatre starring Univer-
sity president John D. Wilson, alum-
nus Roger Mudd and Professor Al
‘Gordon of the fine arts department.

, Construction of the $9 million
theatre, scheduled to begin in mid-
2988, will take approximately 30
months to complete, according to
Parsons.

* The new theatre complex will in-
glude a 450 seat theatre and a 100 seat
experimental or black box theatre.

* The Troubador Theatre, used by
the University since the 1930s, seats
about 135 persons, but it was never
tntended to be used as a theatre.

« During the video, the theatre was
described as a_ university audi-
torium, but Senior E.C. Rep. Andrew
€aruthers noted that the 450 seat
theatre cannot seat the entire student
body.

« Parsons said existing facilities
such as the Warner Center are suffi-
cient for the number of times the en-
sire student body gathers.

Parsons was also questioned about
parking problems at W&L, problems
likely to increase since the theatre
will be built over existing parking
fots. He said he didn’t know of any
eollege that has dealt with the park-
ing problem successfully and that the
University plans on improving some
parking lots this summer.

According to Parsons, the Univer-
ity is also looking at improving
ether facilities over the next few
years, including the Co-op and
Bookstore and the science depart-
ments. Plans are also being discuss-
ed to convert the Troubador into a
liniversity cinema.

:

 

By JOHNPENSEO Danae.

NION/NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 7, 1987

 

Council honors two W&L profs

From Staff Reports

 

 

Two Washington and Lee pro-
fessors have received Outstanding
Faculty Awards from the Virginia
Council of Higher Education.

Philip L. Cline, associate professor
of administration and economics,
and Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology, are among the 13 faculty
members from public and private
colleges and universities throughout
Virginia chosen for the honor. The 13
winners were selected from a field of
108 teachers nominated by their
respective institutions. W&L was
allowed to nominate two candidates,
and both nominees won.

This is the first time the awards
have been made. The 1986 Virginia
General Assembly established the
Oustanding Faculty Awards to
recognize excellence in teaching,
research, and public service.

The awards were presented at a
banquet May 5 in Richmond. Gov.
Gerald Baliles was the featured
speaker at the ceremony.

A graduate of Washington and Lee,
Cline received his M.S. and Ph.D.
from Oklahoma State University. He
joined the Washington and Lee facul-
ty in 1975. He has served as a consul-
tant to the United Nations, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, and
various private agencies and com-
panies.

He has published several articles
in professional journals and_has
received two grants from the Na-
tional Science Foundation to develop
computer-assisted instruction for
economics courses. He has been a

 

 

‘Outstanding professors Jarra

    

member of many campus commit-
tees and serves as faculty adviser to
about 40 students each year.

Jarrard received his bachelor’s
degree from Baylor University and
his master’s and doctorate from
Carnegie Institute of Technology. He
joined the Washington and Lee facul-
ty in 1959. He left W&L in 1965 for a
one-year National Institutes of

Kirgisresigns as dean

From Staff Reports

 

Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of
Washington and Lee’s School of Law,
has announced his resignation from
that position to devote his full time to
teaching and research.

Kirgis’ resignation is effective
June 30, 1988, unless a successor is
appointed to the position prior to that
date.

“The demands of the dean’s posi-
tion simply do not leave much time
for serious scholarship, and I gen-
uinely miss the opportunity both to
pursue my research and to teach,”’
said Kirgis, who became the law
school dean in 1983.

W&L President John D. Wilson
said that he accepted Kirgis’ resigna-
tion “reluctantly and with a most
sincere expression of gratitude for
his effective and loyal service to the
university and “the School ‘of Law

 

 

   

er

4 “4 ] f ‘eA!
: oy As

....Dean Kirgis has contributed enor-
mously to the strengthening of the
School of Law.”’

Wilson added that a committee will
be appointed to conduct a national
search for Kirgis’ successor.

Kirgis came to Washington and
Lee in 1978 when he was named the
first director of the University’s
Frances Lewis Law Center, es-
tablished at W&L to conduct
research into topics on ‘‘the frontiers
of law.”

A specialist in the area of interna-
tional law, Kirgis was responsible for
creating several important pro-
grams in the Lewis Center, including
major colloquia that drew scholars
from throughout the country to W&L
campus to discuss such issues as
uranium mining and international
terrorism.

As dean of the law school, Kirgis .

has been involved in a two-year study

 

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

W&L Greeks playing ‘‘oozebali” (volleyball in the mud) as part of W&L’s
Greek Week. The week is being sponsored to raise money for charity.

Stoutland to speak

on Buddhism

From Staff Reports

 

Frederick Stoutland, philosophy
department chair at St. Olaf College
in Northfield, Minn., will deliver a
public lecture Thursday, May 14, at
Washington and Lee University.

The lecture, ‘Morality, the Self
and Buddhism,”’ will be at 8 p.m. in
the University Library’s Northen
Auditorium. A reception will follow
at the Morris House.

Stoutland’s visit to the campus is
sponsored by the Washington and
Lee department of philosophy and
the university lectures committee. In
addition to his public lecture, Stout-
land will meet formally and infor-
mally with students and faculty for
two days

On Friday, May 15, Stoutland will
lead a discussion of his paper, ‘‘On

Not Being a Behaviorist,”’ at 2 p.m. in
room 8 of Newcomb Hall. Copies of
the paper are available in advance
from the W&L philosophy depart-
ment,

Stoutland received his B.A. degree
from St. Olaf College and his Ph. D.
from Yale University. He has taught
philosophy at St. Olaf since 1962, and
has chaired the philosophy depart-
ment since 1977.

Stoutland is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, the American Philosophical
Association, the Minnesota Philo-
sophical Association, the Society for
Values in Higher Education and the
Society of Christian Philosophers.

He is the author of numerous ar-
ticles and a forthcoming book titled
‘“Truth,"’ to be published by
Routledge and Kegan Paul in their
series ‘‘Problems of Philsophy.”’

wre hn aeilll tne

Neville Richardson, a lecturer in
the department of religious studies at
the University of Natal in Pieter-
maritzburg, South Africa, has been
named the Philip F. Howerton
visiting professor of religion for the
1987-88 academic year.

Richardson replaces religion pro-
fessor Harlan Beckley, who will be
‘on sabbatical for 1987-88. Beckley
will be doing research on the concept
of justice in American Christian
theology.

Richardson visited W&L last year
to participate in a symposium titled
“Ethics from a Theocentric Perspec-
tive,’ based on a work by James
Gustafson. While in Lexington,
Richardson delivered two lectures on
the state of affairs in South Africa,
“Being the Church in South Africa,”
and ‘South Africa’s Cry and the
World’s Response.”’

According to Beckley, a fortunate
combination of circumstances led to
the naming of Richardson as visiting
Howerton professor. “At the sym-
posium last year, Mr. Richardson ex-
pressed an interest in teaching in the
United States, having done much of
his work in connection with Ameri-
can theologians,”’ said Beckley.

‘Almost simultaneously, the
Board of Trustees decided to set
aside funds to bring South African
scholars to Washington and Lee,”
continued Beckley. “As a religion
professor would be needed anyway to

Health fellowship at the University of
Florida College of Medicine. From
1966 to 1971 he taught at Carnegie-
Mellon University and returned to
W&L in 1971 as professor of psy-
chology and head of the department.
For the past 20 years he has receiv-
ed continuous funding from the Na-
tional Science Foundation for his
research on a primitive part of the

   

Frederick Kirgis

to develop a new curriculum. His
tenure as dean has also increased ef-
forts to attract students to the School
of Law and to bring law firms from
throughout the United States to

recruit Washington and Lee. law
graduates.

a : South African prof
q to replace Beckley

fill my position while 1 am on sab-
batical, we invited Mr. Richardson to
teach and continue his research on
Christian ethics at W&L.”’

Mr. Richardson’s appointment
coincides with the Board of Trustees’
decision to increase awareness of the
South African apartheid problem on
campus. In deciding not to divest, the
Board issued a statement that read in
part, “...the Board has authorized
supplemental funds for the purpose
of enhancing our program of visitors
who by experience and scholarship
can shed light on current devel-
opments in South Africa.”

Richardson, the author of a 1977
book titled ‘“‘The World Council of
Churches and Race Relations:
1960-69,” will teach four courses dur-
ing the 1987-88 academic year. Two of
the courses, Christian Ethics and
Moral Problems, and Contemporary
Christian Theology in Ethics, are
courses currently taught by Beckley.

The Religious Struggle in South
Africa, and Modern Theology and
Political Oppression (Religion 215
and 216 respectively), will be offered
only in conjunction with Richard-
son’s visit.

“We are hoping that, through
Richardson's presence, awareness
and discussion of the apartheid pro-
biem will continue on the W&L cam-
pus, said Beckley. A strong opponent
of apartheid, his lectures, courses,
and informal talks on and off campus
should prove interesting, enlighten-
ing, and instructive for the entire
W&L community.”’

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L

brain called the hippocampus. He
has published numerous articles in
research journals, including many
papers co-authored by W&L stu-
dents. He has received awards from
the Southern Society for Philosophy
and Psychology, the Virginia
Psychological Association, and the
Virginia Academy of Sciences and is
listed in ‘“‘Who’s Who in America.”’

Series
to feature

Heaney

 

The Glasgow Endowment Pro-
gram at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity will present a reading and lec-
ture by poet Seamus Heaney May 11
and 12. Both will be open to the
public.

Heaney’s lecture, ‘‘The Interesting
Case of Nero, Chekhov’s Cognac and
a Knocker,”’ will be Monday, May 11,
at 4:30 p.m. His reading will be Tues-
day, May 12, at 4:30 p.m. Both will be
in the University: Library’s Northen
Auditorium.

Heaney was born on a farm in
Derry, Ireland, and now lives on the
outskirts of Dublin. Each spring he
teaches poetry writing at Harvard
University.

He has published several books of
poetry, including ‘‘North,’’ ‘‘Winter-
ing Out,”’ “Door in the Dark,” and
“Death of Naturalist,’’ which are
available in one volume from Farrar,
Straus and Giroux — under the title
“Poems, 1965-1975’’ (1980). Other
books include ‘‘Field Work’ (1979)
and “‘Station Island’ (1985); his col-
lection of essays, ‘‘Preoccupations:
Selected Prose, 1969-1978’’ (1980) ;
and ‘‘Sweeney Astray’’ (1984),
Heaney’s version of an Irish legend
in verse and prose.

“The Haw Lantern,” Heaney’s
latest book of poetry, will be publish-
ed in the fall/winter of 1987-88.

Heaney graduated from Queen’s
University, Belfast, with first class
honors in English language and
literature. After 10 years of teaching,
he worked as a free-lance writer and
presented a weekly book review pro-
gram on Irish radio, and broadcast
regularly on BBC radio and televi-
sion.

He then returned to teaching,
heading the English department at
Campfort College in Dublin and then
taught a year at the University of
California in Berkeley. He began lec-
turing at Harvard in 1981, where he is
currently Boylston Professor of
Rhetoric and Oratory.

Awards and prizes presented to
Heaney include The Somerset
Maugham Award, The Duff Cooper
Award, The E.M. Forster Award,
The P.E.W. Translation Prize, and
The Irish Academy of Letters Award.

The Glasgow Endowment was es-
tablished in 1960 by the late Arthur G.
Glasgow to bring distinguished
novelists, poets, dramatists and
critics to the Washington and Lee

campus.

Admissions house proceeding smoothly

 

BY MARGARET PIMBLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Work on the Gilliam Admissions
House is progressing smoothly, with
the admissions and financial aid of-
fices expected to move into new
quarters there in September, accord-
ing to Frank Parsons, the assistant to
the president.

“September is a fairly slow admis-
sions month,”’ Parsons said, which
would allow the admissions staff
time to make the switch from offices
in Washington Hall to the renovated
house next to dupont Hall.

The building is one of four houses

ee eS

built in the 1840s as faculty
residences. The others are now the
Lee-Jackson House, the Morris
House, and the Reeves Center.

The space to be vacated by the ad-
missions office and financial aid of-
fices will allow the development of-
fice to move out of the Howard House
(the white house next to R.E. Lee
Episcopal Church) and into Washing-
ton Hall.

The office switches will, however,
resemble a game of ‘musical
chairs,’’ Parsons said, with other ad-
ministrative departments currently
in Washington Hall being moved
elsewhere in the building or into
other spaces.

With some renovation and im-
provement, the Howard House will
remain administrative office space.

In addition, the university recently
acquired the red house behind the
Episcopal church and plans to create
new offices and seminar rooms
there.

Parsons said that the projected in-
crease in the size of the student body
to 1,500 will necessitate the hiring of
several new faculty members.
Rather than creating faculty offices
in the red house, some seminar
rooms in the academic buildings may
be converted into offices, with the
seminar rooms in the red house being
used for the displaced classes,

_— seo = x wont esereeeraw mere CENT er =
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 7, 1987

 

MOCK

 

continued from page 1

ratification.

The equal rights amendment was
soundly defeated, with 398 delegates
voting against the amendment. A
sixth amendment, sponsored from
the floor by the delegates of the
states of Oklahoma and Texas, called
for a bill that would make English the
official language of the United
States. The amendment fell narrowly
short of the required 357 votes at 339
votes

The convention adjourned for the
final time at 9:30 p.m,

The atmosphere of the constitu-
tional convention was much like that

at one of Washington and Lee’s mock
political conventions, but on a
smaller scale. Students carried
placards and other items represen-
ting their states. The delegation from
Tennessee carried a velvet painting
of Elvis Presley.

Debate between the delegates was
often lively. The student delegates
spent hours studying the positions on
the issues their states supported.
Many delegates, although not actual-
ly from the states they were repre-
senting, spoke knowledgeably of
their state’s positions.

A written analysis and interpreta-
tion of the convention and the issues
debated will be sent to various
universities, commissions, and in-
vididuals who have expressed an in-
terest in the mock constitutional con-
vention.

Pettus indicted on

distribution

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Assignments editor

 

 

Thomas R. R. Pettus, 19, a
Washington and Lee sophomore from
Keysville, Va., was indicted by a
Rockbridge County grand jury Mon-
day ona felony charge of distributing
amphetamines.

Pettus was arrested following the
indictment, and was released on
$1,500 bond.

Tonight at Pavilion

Concert, Skip Castro Band

charge

Pettus allegedly distributed
methylenedioxy amphetamine, a
Schedule I Controlled Substance, in
Lexington on or about July 28, 1986.
His case is scheduled to be heard in
Rockbridge County Circuit Court,
although a court date has not yet
been set. Commonwealth’s Attorney
Eric Sisler, who will be prosecuting
the case, could not be reached for
comment Wednesday afternoon
about the severity of the alleged
crime.

and The Limit. |

$5.00 for guests and independents

free for Greeks

College I.D. required /driver’s license

| 8 p.m.-1a.m. |

Murph knows what’s going on

 

By JOHN PACKETT
Staff Reporter

Charles F. Murray, better known
to the Lexington and Washington and
Lee communities as Murph, is the

man, who knows just about every-
thing that happens on the Washington
and Lee campus.

Since taking the job as proctor of
W&L, Murph has seen just about
every college prank, stunt and crime.

Now, after 18 years on the job,
Murph, who turns 65 this year, has a
tough decision to make.

“Well, I thought that I might retire
at the end of the year, but I don’t
think I could stand the idle hours,”’
said Murph.

“Dean John and President Wilson
keep trying to get me to stay for one
more year,” he said. ‘I asked what
they were going to do at the end of
next year, aske me to stay one more
year? And they said yes.”

Murph was born in Lexington and
spent the first 10 years of his life
here. Then, with the death of his
mother, he moved to Lynchburg
where he graduated from E.C. Glass
High School.

After high school, Murph served in
the Marines from 1942 to 1946 aboard
Navy ships in the invasion of Africa
and Italy. From the Marines, he
returned to Lexington and worked as
a lieutenant on the police force from

1946 to 1958.

“The police force is where I got a
lot of experience and met people that
would be helpful in the future,” said
Murph.

“T only had to pull a gun on some-
one once in my life,’’ said Murph. “A
guy had stolen a car and we had been
searching for him all night. After my
shift, my partner was taking me to
my neighborhood, the only area I
hadn’t searched, and across from my
house I saw the stolen car parked,
and there was someone asleep in the
driver’s seat. So I pulled out my gun
and approached the car and arrested
the man.”

According to Murph, it turned out
that the man had escaped prison in
Louisiana and had more than 30
charges on his record.

“Being a police officer taught me
what to do and not to do in certain
situations,’ said Murph.

In December of 1959, Murph
answered an advertisement in the
paper for the job of proctor at
Washington and Lee. He was chosen
for the job and started work on Fancy
Dress weekend 1959. For 10 years he
was the only security on the campus
except for a night watchman.

Since coming to Washington and
Lee, Murph has patrolled the dorms,
written parking tickets and tried as
hard as he could to keep the students
out of trouble.

 

department. Lee Chapel.

Law school examinations end.

 

ALENDAR| —

Tuesday, May 12

4:30 p.m. — Glasgow Endowment Reading: Poet Seamus Heaney.
Northen Auditorium, University Library.
8 p.m. — Concert: George Jacob Mintz, pianist. Sponsored by music

Wednesday, May 13

4 p.m. — Math colloquium: ‘‘When to be Greedy,’’ Thomas Brylawski,
U.N.C. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3:30 in room 21.

Thursday, May 14

3 p.m. — LECTURE: “On Truth and Meaning,” Frederick Stoutland,
philosophy department, St. Olaf College. Room 7, Newcomb Hall.

5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: The 13th Annual Department Fry.
Room 401, Howe Hall. Tea at 4:30 in room 402.

7 p.m. —SHAKESPEARE ON FILM: “‘Othello.”’ Room 203, Reid Hall.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: U.S. Air Force Tactical Air Command Brass
Quintet. Sponsored by music department. Lee Chapel.

8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘Morality, the Self and Buddhism,”’ Frederick
Stoutland, St. Olaf College. Northen Auditorium, University Library.
Reception to follow at Morris House.

 

 

AT COURTESY MOTORS
|witH PRE-APPROVED CREDIT
FROM FORD CREDIT
3 THE DIFFERENCE
1 BETWEEN THIS...

 

Your college degree is @ move up. And now
you can move up to a new car with pre-
approved credit from Ford Credit and
Courtesy Motors. if you are working on an ad-
vanced degree or graduating with a
Bachelor’s Degree between October 1, 1986
and September 30, 1967, you may qualify for

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

you a $400.00 check after the purchase or
lease. The money is yours whether you
finance or not.

The amount of your credit depends on
which of these qualified vehicles you choose:
Mercury cars: Tracer,

Cougar, Sabie.

Lynx, Topaz,

He is aware of everything on cam-
pus, he said, because he is around all
the time and he knows most of the
students and the faculty on the cam-
pus,

“Whether people know it or not,
‘I’m here most of the time, especially
on Wednesday, Saturday and Sun-
day,” said Murph. ‘‘I will work from
8:00 a.m. to about 4:30 p.m., go home
to eat dinner, and then come back to
check on things in the evening. I've
seen some weekends where I only got
ten hours of sleep.’’

“T think, if I’m around, I can see
trouble ready to happen, I usually
can tell when it is going to happen,
and I can stop it before it does.”

Once Murph saw about 300 students
gathering outside of Graham-Lees to
get ready for a panty raid at
Southern Seminary. ‘They didn’t
notice me so I took off to Buena Vista
to head the guys off,”’ he recalled. ‘I
got there and with the help of some of
the Buena Vista Police Department
kept a fiasco from happening.”

His wife of 42 years doesn’t under-
stand his commitment to his job.

“T feel that these kids would do
anything for me, so I want to try and
do anything I can for them,” said
Murph. “I don’t want any of them to
get into trouble. Most of the kids are
pretty honest when they do some-
thing wrong and they turn them-
selves in,” he continued. ‘‘I think that

Mintz to
perform Liszt

From Staff Reports

 

Franz Liszt’s crowning master-
piece for the piano, Sonata in B
Minor, and three of his most
beautiful works, the Petrarch Son-
nets, will highlight the program per-
formed by pianist George Jacob
Mintz Tuesday, May 12, at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

Sponsored by the music division at
W&L, the concert will be at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel and is open to the public,

Mintz teaches piano at Brenau Col-
lege in Gainesville, Ga. He holds a
B.A. degree from Eckerd College and
M.M. and Ph.D. degrees from
Florida State University. While at
Florida State, Mintz studied piano
under Edward Kilenyi.

For Quality Accommodation

& Dining Call
Quality In

 

Raphine

ROUTE 1, BOX 438, RAPHINE, VIRGINIA 24472

703-377-2604

Midway between
Lexington & Staunton.
Take exit 54 off 1-81

 

Large House
For Rent

5 bedrooms, 2 baths, living room,
kitchen, dining room in Lexington.

$625/month.

Call Jim 463-3697 evenings

 

SNACK BAR
WELCOME ALUMNI

Ford cars: Escort, Escort EXP, Tempo,
Mustang, Thunderbird, Taurus.

Ford trucks: Aerostar, Bronco |!, Ranger.

So hurry. If a vehicle is not in dealer stock
you must order by June 1, 1987, and you must
fake delivery of any vehicle by August 31,
1967.

this specia! college graduate purchase pro-
gram.

if you do, you'll receive a $400 cash
allowance from Ford. Make your best deal on
any qualifying vehicle and use the money
toward your down payment, or Ford will sand

  
 
 
  
 

Ford Motor
Credit
Company

Open 9-3 p.m. Saturday

 

SPECIAL OF MONTH:

 

GET ALL THE DETAILS TODAY AT Milkshakes
COURTESY MOTORS 209 Forest Ave. ; (nights only)
* FORD MERCURY pasa Video = i Hot Fudge Sundaes

 

is honorable and what this school is
all about.”

In the criminal part of his job
Murph does everything from writing

out parking tickets to finding
students or others who have stolen
things from the dorms.

“‘I’d say since I have been here,
there has been well into the
thousands and thousands of dollars
worth of merchandise and cash
stolen,”’ he said

He believes the biggest crime
around here is probably breaking in
to cars or lifting merchandise from
rooms.

“‘T always hope it is not the students
that are causing the trouble, because
I don’t want to have to do anything to
them. Most of it I could recover by
just knowing the nature of the crime.
I guess it’s just a matter of being
around the community for so long.”’

Because he is not a sworn law of
ficer, Murph can approach those who
he thinks are guilty and ask them if
they have done something wrong
without reading them their rights.

It is hard to avoid the eye of Murph
He has recovered most of the mer-
chandise stolen on the campus. He
knows all that happens because he is
around all the time.

Maybe this is why students and
faculty always say: ‘If you want to
know what goes on at Washington
and Lee just ask Murph.”’

ALUMS

O continued from page 1

 

 

by President Wilson.
W&L’s own Heinsohn and Day will
give a concert on the Colonnade lawn

from 12:30 to 2:00 p.m. Following the ,

concert, alumni will have a chance to

view the newly reconstructed Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity in open

house tours lasting from 2 to4 p.m.

 

GENERAL
NOTES

 

Senior info

Senior index information sheets
for the Calyx must be turned in by
Friday, May 15th. Pick up and
return in Carol Calkins office in
the University Center,

Senior pics

Senior photo proofs will be in the
Calyx Office, University Center
from Tuesday, May 12 to Thurs-
day, May 14th from 2:00 to 5:00
p.m. Come by to choose the one
you want to be in the Calyx.

Hurry up

Applications due Sunday, May
10 for E.C. sub-committee posi-
tions should include name, grade,
position desired, and brief
qualifications. Applicant should
check E.C. door on Monday, May
11, for interview time. Interviews
will be held Tuesday, May 12 and
Thursday, May 14, beginning at 7
p.m.

Do it now

Friday is the last day students
can register for Fall Term. The
deadline is 4:30 p.m. Corrected
GPAs will be given out at this
time, and class ranks are also
available.

Have fun

For all psychology majors and
prospective majors, the annual
spring psychology picnic is this
Sunday, May 10 at 2 p.m. Food,
volleyball, and lots of fun. See the
psych department for details.

Found

Items lost at the W&L Constitu-
tional Convention can be picked
up either in Carol Calkins’ office
in the University Center or in the
Security Office in Graham-Lees
dormitory.

Some more

Lost & Found — University
Center. Navy Blue sportsjacket,
Volvo car key on banana key
chain, check pickup Bob Drake, T.
J. Finnerty.

Vote your gender

Elections for Women’s Forum
Officers will be held Tuesday,
May 12 at 7:00 p.m. in Fairfax
Lounge. All undergraduate
women are encouraged to attend.

 

4

 

 
SPORTS

 

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

NOTE: The ITCA poll used for
this analysis was released on
4/27/87, the final poll conducted
for the season. Several teams
have played matches since then,
and this explains why the eight
teams selected for the champion-
ships were not the top eight teams
in the poll.

KALAMAZOO
Kalamazoo, Mich.
Record; 12-6
Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches’
Ranking; No. 1

The Hornets have four players
returning from last year’s cham-
pionship squad... Record is
deceiving, having played top-
notch Division I competition in-
cluding Vanderbilt, Rollins,
Florida, Florida St., Miami of
Ohio and Notre Dame... Rap
against Kalamazoo is that it
doesn’t play enough top-ranked
Division III schools, but nothing
could be further from the truth —
beat up on Emory (9-0, ITCA No.
14) and Wheaton (8-1, ITCA No.
24)... Also captured 8 of 9 flights in
tournament with Depauw, Deni-
son and Wooster —all of which are
ranked in the Top 20 of D-III ten-

Lakes region...

Kalamazoo is loaded with great
players including Alex Palladino
(ITCA No. 3), Jim Burda (ITCA
No. 57) and Jack Hosner (ITCA
No, 58)... Palladino has not lost a
singles match since the team’s
spring trip and has defeated a
bunch of D-I players... Palladino
also teams with Burda for the
doubles competition, and they are
ranked No. 1 and are the defen-
ding national doubles cham-
pions... “It took 24% hours to pick
the field,’ said head coach George
Acker. “That’s how close the

 

nis... Rated the best in the Great .

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The si rs
Sophomore Robert Haley is a key player for the Generals.

teams are. That’s the beauty of
competition — you never know the
outcome.”

Odds: 2 to1

WASHINGTON AND LEE
Lexington, Va.

Record: 16-4

ITCA Ranking: No. 2

The Generals are looking for
revenge after last year’s 6-3 loss
in the finals to Kalamazoo...
Finished 8th in the tournament in
1985... The Generals’ schedule
was not one of the most difficult...
D-I victories include James
Madison (6-3) and Davidson
(5-4)... One weekend, 8-1 wins
over Emory (ITCA No. 14) and
Swarthmore wrapped up the
championship bid for W&L... Con-
ference champions for third con-
secutive year and ranked No. 1 in
South Atlantic region...

Four players return from last
year’s 2nd-place squad... West
Point-transfer Robert Haley
(13-10, ITCA No. 9) beefed up an
already intimidating singles
lineup of Bobby Matthews (ITCA
No. 27) and David McLeod (ITCA
No. 59)... Haley’s record is
misleading due to slow start...
Matthews and McLeod (17-1, IT-
CA No. 3) are the pair the
Generals rely on heavily in
doubles competition... Are

~ undefeated-in D-lflaction:.: “Last
year we needed a good draw,”’
said head coach Gary Franke,
“but this year it is not as impor-
tant. I have no preference of who
to play in the first round.”’

Odds: 2 to1

WASHINGTON COLLEGE
Chestertown, Md.
Record: 26-4
ITCA Ranking: No.3

This is only the second time the
Sho’men have had the opportunity
to play for the national title...
Three of their losses came at the
hands of D-I programs... Key D-

 

By! « SHA
Assistant Sports Editor

 

The regular season is over. The
reservations are booked. The bus is
packed and fueled up. It’s time to get
down to business.

On Sunday, for the third con-
secutive year, the Washington and
Lee men’s tennis team officially
received its invitation to the National
Collegiate Athletic Association Divi-
sion III Championships at Salisbury,
Md., on May 11-17. Now all that re-
mains for the Generals, ranked 2nd
in the nation by the Intercollegiate
Tennis Coaches’ Association, are the
final preparations and tuneups and
the actual matches for the national ti-
tle.

“I’m encouraging our team mem-
bers to play as much tennis as possi-

The Ring-tum Phi, May 7, 1987

Tennis ready for Nationals

ble,”’ said head coach Gary Franke.
‘“‘We went to Staunton on Monday to
play indoors just in case the tourna-
ment has to be played indoors.”

Franke said he pushed the team
hard Monday and Tuesday and then
gave the players a rest on Wednes-
day before a practice match today.
The Generals travel to Richmond to
face Hampton Institute, a Division II
school that is also in the midst of
preparing for a national tournament,
before embarking for the champion-
ships at 5 p.m. on Friday.

One of Franke’s main concerns
these last two weeks has been the
condition of sophomore Bobby Mat-
thews’ right hand. Matthews injured
his hand on the trip in Florida and did
not play in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championships. Franke,
however, was extremely optimistic

 

ANALYSIS
Parity describes field; could lead to upsets in first round

Ill wins were Swarthmore (8-1),
Rochester (5-1), Emory (7-2, IT-
CA No. 14) and Wheaton (7-2, IT-
CA No. 24)... Also handed losses to
D-I UNC-Charlotte (6-3) and
Depaul (8-1)... Ranked 2nd behind
W&L in the South Atlantic re-
gion...

Alejandro Hernandez (ITCA
No. 10 as a singles player) returns
for Washington; he has lost only
one D-III match this season... Not
to be outdone, Larry Gewer (24-2,
ITCA No. 28) went undefeated in
D-III competition... No. 3 singles
player Claudio Gonzalez has also
been extremely tough... Gewer
and Hernandez (ITCA No. 15)
team up to give the Sho’men some
strength in doubles... ‘‘I hope we
can use some of the experience we
gained from playing last year,”
said head coach Fred Wyman. “I
hope we feel at home [in Salis-
bury]. It’s kind of like playing in
our own backyard.”

Odds: 3 to1

UC-SANTA CRUZ
Santa Cruz, Calif.
Record: 15-6

ITCA Ranking: No. 4

The Sea Lions have not lost a D-
III match all season long and their
schedule is challenging... Check
out these wins: Claremont (9-0),
Principia (6-3), Redlands (5-4, IT-
CA No; 7), Whitman (73, ITCA
No. 10) and UC-San Diego (8-1, IT-
CA No. 13)... Schedule also con-
tained five D-I teams and one D-II
school...

Ron Ward (ITCA No. 4) and
Chad Andrews (ITCA No. 15) pro-
vide plenty of firepower in the
singles department for the Sea
Lions... Doubles team of Mark
Cassell and Jordan Einbinder
(ITCA No. 8) is also one to watch
out for... Santa Cruz is somewhat
of a mystery, especially when
looking at its unusually close
score with Redlands and then its
blowout of Claremont... ‘We

played five of the top twelve

teams,” said head coach Bob

Hansen. ‘‘Any team in there [the

championship] can winit all.”
Odds: 4 to1

PRINCIPIA

Elsah, Ill.

Record: 19-6

ITCA Ranking: No. 5

The Panthers mixed up their
schedule with an even balance of
D-I and D-III opponents... D-I vic-
tories over St. Louis, Bradley and
Eastern Illinois were most im-
pressive... Have played two of the
eight tournament teams, defeat-
ing Claremont, 5-4, while losing to
Santa Cruz, 3-6... Other notable D-
Ill wins came over St. Thomas
(ITCA No. 23) and Wheaton ITCA
No. 24)...

Principia has the No. 1-ranked
D-III player in the nation in Toby
Clark, who won the singles title in
1985, and other fine singles
players in Tom Kollock (ITAC No.
16) and Chris Caldwell (ITAC No.
46)... Doubles tandem of Caldwell
and Kollock are ranked No. 2...
The Panthers have been in a sur-
prisingly large number of 5-4
matches, which has led some to
believe they lack depth at the No.
4, 5 and No. 6 singles and No. 3
doubles... ‘‘We’ve had good close

.-matches,”’ said head ceach Larry ~*

Gerber. “‘[No one team] seems to
be dominating this year. The field
appears to be more balanced.”

Odds: 6 to1

CLAREMONT
Claremont, Calif.
Record: 20-11
ITCA Ranking: No. 6

The Stags are back in the tour-
nament after not being invited
last year, despite hosting the
championships... Have played the
most difficult D-III schedule of all
the teams competing... Went 7-5 in

about Matthews, the No. 2 singles
player, being ready for nationals.
“We think he’ll be 100 percent,”’ he
said. ‘‘He was hitting overheads and
serving. Most of the pain is gone.”’

Matthews’ availability will be key
if the Generals want a chance to
avenge last year’s 6-3 loss to
Kalamazoo in the finals. Kalamazoo
in once again perched on top, holding
the No. 1 ranking throughout the
season. The other six teams selected
to play in the championships were
Washington College, the University
of California Santa Cruz, Principia,
Claremont, Rochester, and Swarth-
more.

According to Franke, this year’s
field is much more balanced from top
to bottom. One example can be seen
in the W&L-Swarthmore match earl-
ier in the year, in which W&L won by

12 matches versus the top teams
in the nation with wins over
Rochester (5-4), Swarthmore
(5-4), Washington University (8-1,
ITCA No. 22), and Carleton (5-4,
ITCA No. 15) and Redlands twice
(ITCA No. 7)... Lost a close 5-4
match to Principia... 12-0 con-
ference record, first time
undefeated in 23 years...

Frank Hinman (18-8, ITCA No.
5) and Paul Scholtz (18-8, ITCA
No. 39) are the big guns for Clare-
mont... Three of Hinman’s losses
were at the hands of higher-
ranked players in D-III... Scholtz
is 11-1 in last 12 matches and won
the conference singles champion-
ship... Hinman and Scholtz (ITCA
No. 4) are also the team’s best
doubles pair. .. ‘We've played
more top teams than anyone,”’
said head coach Hank Krieger.
‘“‘We know what it’s like to be ina
close match, and it could be an ad-
vantage.”

Odds: 5 to1

ROCHESTER
Rochester, N.Y.
Record: 13-6
ITCA Ranking: No. 8

The Yellowjackets’ solid
schedule and crucial win over
Swarthmore secured them the bid
to nationals... Defeated Swarth-

more (5-4), Emory (7-2, ITCA No.

14) in D-III portion of season and
Colgate (6-3) in D-I... Narrowly
defeated by Claremont and
Redlands (ITCA No. 7) by 5-4
margins... Also beaten by Wash-
ington College (5-1) but did not
play doubles...

Singles player Joachim Ham-
mer (5-5, ITCA No. 8) is
Rochester’s top gun... Has scored
wins over Jimmy Strauss (ITCA
No. 14) of Emory and Washington
University’s Duncan Seay (ITCA
No. 13)... Eric Lipton (8-5, ITCA
No. 60) and Mark Frisk (10-6, IT-
CA No. 61) are the other notable

the deceiving score of 8-1. Swarth-
more could have very easily held a
3-3 tie after the six singles matches
(the Little Quakers lost two in tight
three-setters) and made the match
much closer.

W&L will also have at least four
and possibly all six players com-
peting in the individual segment of
the championships that begin on
Thursday. Sophomore Robert Haley
(ranked No. 9 by the ITCA), Mat-
thews (27th-ranked), junior David
McLeod (59th-ranked) and senior
Roby Mize will compete in the
singles. Matthews and McLeod
(ranked 3rd in doubles) and Haley
and Mize will participate in the
doubles competition. The doubles
tandem of junior Chris Wiman and

OC See Tennis, page 6

 

players in the lineup... Frisk has
been especially impressive,
beating both Paul Scholtz of
Claremont and Claudio Gonzalez
of Washington College... Frisk
and Hammer (8-3, ITCA No. 9)
team up to give some power in
doubles... ‘I think the top four is
definitely going to survive the
first round,” said head coach Pete
Lyman. “The semifinals and
finals are going to be very in-
terestang matches, though.”’
Odds: 14to1

SWARTHMORE
Swarthmore, Pa.
Record: 10-14

ITCA Ranking: No. 9

The Little Quakers play one of
the most challenging regular
season schedules one could im-
agine... Were competitive in D-I
matches against Temple, Prince-
ton, University California -Santa
Barbara, San Jose St., Penn St.
and University of Penn... D-III
schedule reads even more dif-
ficult with wins over Redlands
(ITAC No. 7) and Emory (ITAC
No. 14), as well as tough 5-4 losses
to Rochester and Claremont...
12th straight year the Quakers
have been invited to nationals...

* “Won team championship in 1985....

Swarthmore will rely on singles
player Andy Mouer (ITAC No. 35)
and doubles team of Mouer and
Vivek Varma (ITAC No. 20)... Not
much firepower in terms of
highly-ranked players but do have
good depth... Was some question
as to whether or not Swarthmore
would be selected... ‘‘I feel we are
deserving of going,” said head
coach Mike Mullan. “‘It was close.
The field is not as top-heavy as
last year. I feel that our team does
have the potential to be suc-
cessful.”’

Odds: 11 to1

 

 

 

 

‘Fourth Annual
‘W&L Triathlon

" From Staff Reports

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occastions

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

Aluin-Bennis

Welcome Alumni

R. Sheridan PHONE 703-463-2022

 

 

 

The Fourth Annual Washington
«and Lee Triathlon will be run on
: Armed Forces Day, Sunday, May 17.

Apartments For Rent

Reasonable Rates

Call 463-3521 or Stop By

* The Triathlon, which will begin at 8
, a.m., will consist of a %4 mile swim in

Washington and Lee University’s
* Twombly Pool, a 13-mile bike ride,
, anda3.1 mile run.

 

Pres Brown’s Inc.

115 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.

Alumni Special
Suits 20% Off

¢ Sponsored by W&L’s Army ROTC
, department, the Triathlon is open to
all individuals and teams from Lex-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sport Coats and Suits
by Haspel, Gant & Oritsky
Sero Shirts
Bass Weejuns & Topsider Shoes
Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek
Duck Head Cotton Pants
Bermuda Shorts plaids & solids
Jams, OP & Birdwell Swimsuits
W&L - Belts - Ties - Key Chains

¢ Priazzorm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. /A0%.-
Fri., and any time Sai. &
Sun.

‘ington and surrounding commun-
, ities, including Washington and Lee
and Virginia Military Institute. -
=a non-refundable registration fee PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
of $10 for students and $15 for adults
*is due on or before May 11. Applica- OR DELIVERED
, tions can be picked up in W&L’s
Warner Center or ROTC department.
" ¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
All contestants will receive a Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy®
. Washington and Lee Triathlon T- Pizza, served anytime.
» shirt, and all finishers will earn a cer-
, tificate. Division awards will be
” presented to the top man and top
* woman ineach category.
In case of rain, the Triathlon will
+ be held on Sunday, May 24.

« Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 13:00
aimi-4;00 pm (Mon.-Fri,).

* Plus.,.Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

House For Rent
*87-'88
4-5 Students

¢ Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to

Call go.
2 ¢ Each Wednesday night,
463 6828 §:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
Mon.-Thurs, salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only $3.49. Children under 6
years-99',

 

© 1985 Pizza Hut, Inc.

(Since 1963)
MasterCard
9-5:30 Monday-Saturday

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington

463-7000

Choice Student Charge

pizen
Hut.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, May 7, 1987

 

 

 

LAX

 

C continued from page 1

pull away. The Generals stepped up
their play a notch on both ends of the
field and began to pull away from the
Maroons.

The third quarter has been good to
the Generals all year long. W&L
outscored its opponents 53-18 in that
quarter during the regular season,
and yesterday they added to that
statistic.

At one end of the field, Church and
the rest of the W&L defense shut out
the Maroons for the entire third
quarter (as well as the first two-
thirds of the fourth period). At the
other end of the field, the Generals
peppered the Roanoke defense for
five goals. Leading the assult were
Redfern (four goals, four assists on

 

 

the afternoon) and Smith, with his
best game in a W&L uniform (five
goals on the day).

“Pete [Smith] is one of four guys
we call the muckers,”’ said Daly. The
others are seniors Joe Krastel, Bill
Garavente, and Bill Garret. ‘‘We
rotate them in at the third attack
spot.

“Sometimes things are working
better for one than the other, maybe
a certain guy saw something when he
was on the sidelines. We certainly
aren’t afraid to use any one of them.”

W&L’s outstanding third quarter
built their lead to 13-7, but, with last
week’s W&L comeback fresh in the
mind’s of everyone, nobody counted
the Maroons out.

The Generals continued to work
hard both offensively and defensively
to keep the Maroons from mounting
any type of comeback. Church con-

 

asalidiiiiiimmidiiiienensiniiicaaiie sca
tinued to shut the Maroons down in
their offensive end, not allowing th:
Maroons to score until there wer
under six minutes remaining in the
game.

Late in the game, with the
Generals victory assured, Churcl
came out in favor of junior Pau’
Burke. Church, on the afternoon
made 18 saves, several of them in
one-on-one situations. In addition, his
outlet passing set up many offensive
opportunities for the Generals.

Said Daly of the game, “I didn’t
think that this team deserved to lose
three in a row.”

“We controlled the midfield and
did a great job defensively.”

‘I don’t think we could have played
any better in our transition game.
which is the kind of game we like to
play.”

 

 

 

GENERALS 19

GENERALS (11-3)

 

Roanoke ll

 

Ohio Wesleyan 12

 

Ohio Wesleyan (13-2)

 

 

Washington College 3
ed

 

 

 

 

 

 

RIT 14

RIT (12-2)
St. Lawrence i
Hobart a .

Hobart (8-4)
Cortland State 7

 

 

Generals battle Bishops next

 

 

 

Lake praises lax team’s success

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

 

Talk about success. The Washington and Lee lacrosse
team, under head coach Dennis Daly, owns an 11-3
record and is competing for the national championship.

“So what? So are three other teams,’’ you may point
out. But there are a few other things to keep in mind,
things that make W&L’s presence in this field a truly
outstanding accomplishment, one that shows how able
and talented Daly and his athletes really are.

Success at Washington and Lee has been slow in com-
ing for Daly. The Generals’ 11th lacrosse coach started
out with three losing seasons. Daly’s teams were 5-9 in
1984, 3-8 in 1985, and 5-8 in 1986.

The shift to Division III, however, has allowed Daly’s
skills as a coach to shine through. For three years, he
has tried to out-coach scholarship athletes with student
athletes, leading to a 13-25 overall record.

As Daly commented after this year’s season opening
loss to the University of Virginia, if a Division I school
doesn’t have stronger, quicker and faster athletes than
a Divison III opponent, then the D-I coach isn’t doing his
job as a recruiter. Any large school is bound to have
more coaches, more trainers, better facilities, and bet-
ter name recognition than a small program, and this
puts the smaller institution at a disadvantage before the
rules about financial grants-in-aid are even considered.

In recent years, as the financial backing by the fans and
alumni for Division I lacrosse has increased, those
schools which are allowed to award scholarships ob-
viously have been able to recruit more and more of the
nation’s best athletes.

Now, Daly is able to compete with schools under the
same financial restrictions as W&L, and it certainly
didn’t take long for the coach to take advantage of the
newfound parity. But there’s a catch: even with finan-
cial equality, W&L remains at a disadvantage.

W&L’s rigorous admissions standards have a pro-
found effect on the number of high school graduates
available to a coach, in that his pool of recruits is
significantly smaller than the number of graduating
high school seniors in any particular year. Thus
Washington and Lee coaches are at a disadvantage.

Furthermore, the time demands and pressure placed
on W&L student athletes by their first priority,
academics, are, in many cases, more strenuous than
those carried by the Generals’ opponents. Thus
Washington and Lee student athletes are at a disadvan-
tage.

Nevertheless, Daly’s 11-3 reccrd shows that, with
hard work and dedication, W&L students can compete
with comparable athletes, despite heavy academic re-
quirements.

So congratulations, Coach Daly. No matter how far
W&L goes in the tournament, you and your players
deserve it. Just being competitive is an accomplish-
ment; anything else is gravy.

Sita i a el Ratt it i acti ia ee Rn is

 

 

 

By DAVID EMRICH
Sports Editor

 

The next opponent the Generals
will face in the National Collegiate
Athletic Association’s Division III
lacrosse tournament is the Ohio-
Wesleyan Bishops.

Earlier this year, the Generals
defeated the Bishops by a 12-9 score
in Lexington, but that was the last
loss for Ohio-Wesleyan. Since that
setback on March 12. the Bishops
have gone 12-0, running their record
to 13-2, and in the process ascending
to the No. 1 spot in the United States

poll. The Bishops currently share the
top spot with Hobart, the defending
national champion.

The Bishops have two tournament
opponents in common with the
Generals. Both teams played
Roanoke and Washington College.
Ohio-Wesleyan won both games,
whereas the Generals lost both
games.

According to Ohio-Wesleyan head
coach Mike Pressler, the Bishops like
to play an aggressive transition
game. He said they like to push the
ball upfield.

“We like to force the fast break,”’
said Pressler, ‘‘and take it away

from the other team.”’

According to Pressler, the key
players for Ohio-Wesleyan are junior
attackman Rob Alvino, the team’s
leading scorer and an all-American
last season, junior midfielder Charlie
Blanchard, who had 35 goals this past
season, and junior goaltender Don
O'Neill, a third team all-America last
year whom Pressler called ‘‘as good
as anyone out there’’ and ‘‘the key to
our team.”’

Going into the tournament Pressler
seemed optimistic. ‘‘We’re healthy
and we’re coming off a big win
against Denison, our big rival out
here.”

 

for your convenience

Saturday, May 9, 9 a.m. — 3 p.m.

Welcome Alumni! :

The W&L Bookstore will be open

 

Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association

 

 

 

TENNIS nee
Furniture Dealers
115 S. Main St., 463-2742
C continued from page 5 “For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”
a John Morris may also get a
id.

 

 

The road to Salisbury began for the
Generals way back on March 3 when
they defeated Division I foe James
Madison 6-3 and then crushed Mil-
lersville 8-1. A 7-2 setback at the
hands of Virginia Tech saw W&L
struggling, especially Haley, who
was having difficulty breaking into
the win column. The Generals
defeated Slippery Rock and then
grabbed a great victory from David-
son, 5-4, a win Franke called ‘my
biggest at W&L.”’

A loss to Furman only seemed to

FOR RENT

Summer Storage Space
Rates start at $15.00 per month
Call 463-3521 or stop by

Pres Brown’s Inc.
115 W. Nelson St.

 

 

Lexington, Va.

 

infuriate the Generals as they reeled
off seven consecutive wins before
spring break, pasting nationally
ranked Emory and Swarthmore by
the score of 8-1 along the way.

Spring break meant a trip to
Florida and the Generals retained
the momentum they had captured in
the win streak. Two shutouts of St.
Leo and Stetson were followed by two
close 5-4 losses to Rollins and
Flagler. W&L then assured a suc-
cessful trip by nipping N. Florida,
5-4.

Domination is what best describes
the Generals’ final week of the
season. Without Matthews, W&L
scored easy wins over Christopher
Newport and Averett before storm-
ing into the ODAC championships.

THE WASHINGTON & LEE
BOOKSTORE
VISIT US FOR...

reading for fun & profit
necessary textbooks
photoprocessing
gifts for your mother
(or significant other)
ubiquitous W&L ties
books for little kids
Prints of the campus
birthday cards

 

 

The Generals had little difficulty cap- en
turing all nine flights on route to their etewhaaias
third-consecutive conference crown. tenis
film
e tapes
Silver Jewelry thank you notes
pencils
& notebooks
; running shorts
Porcelain Jewelry patione
Unique designs by pennants
. postcards
loca la rtists. advice . ..
Artists in Cahoots '
Old Main St. Mall Welcome Alumni
Lexington, VA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

© 1986 ArtCarved Class Rings

 

 

 
