 

[Biddin’

 

page 4

 

Check out the dates
in the Career Corner

 

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 16

 

Kickin’

 

 

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

page 6

 

Georgia Satellites
raise the roof

Che King-tum Phi

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your Weekend Weather

Cloudy all weekend;
chance of snow Friday

  
 
   

JANUARY 29, 1987

 

>

~

~

~+

~

=

=

y

 

GENERAL
NOTES

 

Phone

Anyone who wishes to speak
with a peer counselor may call the
Peer Counselor Hot Line. The
number is 463-8593. The line is
open 7 p.m. - 11 p.m., Sunday
through Thursday and 8 p.m.
-midnight on Friday and Satur-
day. Peer Counselors may also be
reached through Carol Ann
Calkins (ext. 8590) Monday
through Friday during normal
business hours,

Home

The Washington and Lee Film

'| Society is pleased to announce the

presentation of “The Return of
Martin Guerre” (France, 1982),

| directed by Daniel Vigne.

Showings will be at 8:00 p.m. on

| Friday 30 January and Saturday

31 January in Lewis Hall Class-
room ‘‘A.”’ The film is in French,
with Englsih subtitles. There is no
charge for admission.

Hole in one

The Association of Collegiate
Entrepreneurs will meet this
Monday at 5:00 p.m. in Room 121
of the Commerce School. All in-
terested entrepreneurs are en-
couraged to attend.

Baby

The Admissions office is now ac-
cepting applications for the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee’s
chairmanship positions. Stop by
Washington Hall, 2nd floor, and
see Mrs. Hunter for details.
Deadline is Friday, February 6.

Doc

DOCTOR ZHIVAGO (US, 1965,
dir. David Lean, 197 min., from
Boris Pasternak’s novel, starring
Alex Guinness, Rod Steiger, Omar
Sharif, Julie Christie, Geraldine
Chaplin, Tom Courtney) will run
Wed. - Sat., January 28-31, 7:00
p.m., Room 203, Reid Hall. Prais-
ed for its authenticity by the late
Pasternak’s son, it is one of very
few serious American treatments
of Sovietization. The ultimate
testament of what we become
when ‘‘the private world is dead!”

All work

The rowing club of Washington
and Lee will be holding a meeting
in the Classrooms on the 500 level
of the P.E. Building next Wednes-
day at 7:00 p.m. We will be
. discussing workout times on the
* new rowing machine as well as
funding for the purchase of a 4-
man shell. New members are
* welcome. Those who haven’t paid
, their dues are encouraged to bring
their checkbook.

No play

, Giacomo Puccini’s opera
“Manon Lescaut”’ will be broad-
’ cast live from the Metropolitan
, Opera Saturday, January 31, at 2
p.m. over W&L’s radio station
* WLUR-FM (91.5).
, Leona Mitchell will sing the title
role, and Ermanno Mauro will be
. heard as Des Grieux, with Brian
' Schexnayder as Lescaut and Italo
_ Tajo as Geronte. Julius Rude! will
" conduct.

- Honor

The Washington andLee
, Chapter of the Society of Profes-
sional Journalists/Sigma Delta
’ Chi will honor hostage Terry A.
, Anderson on Wednesday.
Anderson, chief Middle East
* correspondent for The Associated
. Press, was kidnapped in Beirut,
Lebanon, by Iranian-backed ter-
‘ rorists on March 16, 1985.
The chapter will make available
petitions calling for Anderson’s
‘release and a_ videotape for
,students to view attheir conven-
ience. People are encouraged to
"wear yellow ribbons.

 

 

 

Big snow
blankets
Lexington

By GEORGE G. SPARACIO
Staff Reporter

 

More than 24 inches of snow fell on
Lexington this past week, immobiliz-
ing some, but changing this small
southwestern Virginia town into a
winter wonderland for others.

The snow was an excuse to have
unexpected fun. Students could be
seen bumper riding down the street
or riding sleds or toboggans.
Snowball fights and wrestling mat-
ches in the snow were not rare sights.
Dogs were also playing in the snow.

The snow inconvenienced many.
Snowed-in cars, icy roads and large
snow banks made driving treach-
erous, and on top of all this, the local
hardward store ran out of snow
shovels. In addition, many girls were
stranded at Washington and Lee for
as many as three days.

Stonewall Jackson Community
Hospital handled the snow quite well.
Many staff members had to stay
over-night so as to accommodate the
patients. The roads leading up to the
hospital were kept clear. There were
no deaths due to the snow.

James Arthur, the superintendent
of buildings and grounds, said that in
the case of such a large amount of
snow, all the members of the
buildings and grounds department
work on clearing the snow, from elec-
tricians to plumbers to janitors.

Arthur went on to say that there
will only be minimal delays on the
Gaines Residence Hall project due to
the snow and and cold weather.

Throughout all of the snow, W&L
did not close down. Frank Parsons,
executive assistant to the president,
said that the last time the university
closed was in 1960. President Fred
Cole, from Alabama, closed the
university after only a few inches of
snow fell. The accumulation was so
minimal that many of the students
went to the newly opened Homestead
ski area for a fun filled day.

Parsons went on to say that most of
the students live within walking
distance to the university. Those peo-
ple who live out in the country should
be somewhat prepared. The universi-
ty’s position is that if a faculty
member or a student cannot make a
class because of snow, he can deal
with that on an individual basis. Due
to the W&L trimester, if classes were
cancelled, they would definitely be
made up ona Saturday.

Traditionally, W&L does not close
due to inclement weather. Although
the snow was heavy most of the
students attended classes during the
snow.

 

   

New addition

Apparently filled with class pride,

 

 

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

someone made an addition to old

George during the past week. The recent snow seems to have delayed at-

tempts to remove the graffiti.

Superdance

gets license

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

Seniors Tom Thagard and Jim
Barker, chairmen for the Feb. 7-8
Muscular Dystrophy Association
Superdance, had been promoting the
dance as an alcohol-free event up to
this point, hoping people would join
them on the basis of the dance being
an extremely enjoyable and worthy
cause.

However, with the approval of the
Alcohol Beverage Control (ABC), the
Superdance will be able to sell beer
this year, attracting those that may
not have come to the dance for
aesthetic enjoyment.

According to Barker, the beer
license is an “‘added attraction” to
the already busy event, now in its
ninth year at Washington and Lee.
The license is contingent on the crea-
tion of a beer garden similar to the
ones used at recent SAB concerts. In
accordance with the change in the
legal drinking age, beer will be sold
only to students age 21 and older who
show positive identification.

“We plan to rope off an area on the
right side of the pavillion,” said
Barker, describing the set-up of the
beer garden. ‘‘There will be two en-
trances into the area: one for
dancers who can legally drink, and
one for non-dancing participants.”

‘Of course, students who will drink
must present their students iden-
tification and drivers license.’’

Though chairmen Barker and
Thagard are counting on the dance
drawing people purely for enjoy-
ment, the license is another attrac-
tion to a fun-filled and very active
Superdance schedule.

According to Greg Knapp, co-
chairman of the special events com-

Sorority symposium gets mixed

 

 

By VALERIE PIERSON
Staff Reporter

Approximately sixty
undergraduate women trudged

through snow and ice Saturday morn-
ing to attend “Sororities and Alter-
natives.”’ The symposium was held in
the Moot Courtroom of Lewis Hall.

Along with representatives from
the administration and the Inter-
fraternity Council, the women dis-
cussed the pros and cons of national
sororities, local sororities, and eating
clubs.

Speaking on behalf of national
sororities was Lissa Bradford, a
member of the National Panhellenic
Conference and advisor for all

Sampson on probation

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Assignments Editor

 

A Washington and Lee freshman
has been placed on social probation
for the rest of the term and conduct
probation for the rest of the year for
shooting a 15-year-old girl in the
shoulder with a blowdart two weeks
ago.

Phillip L. Sampson Jr., of Houston,
also will have to perform an
unspecified amount of community
service for the act.

“T’m just thankful that it didn’t end
up worse than it did,”’ said Sampson,
citing the seiousness of the case.

He could have been expelled.

The girl, a local high school stu-
dent, is the daughter of W&L
Associate Dean of Students Leroy C.
‘“‘Buddy”’ Atkins. She was not injured
seriously.

The Student Conduct Committee, a
13-student disciplinary body, held a
hearing on Sampson’s case Tuesday
night. Because ‘“‘inflicting death or
bodily inury’” is a major offense
under SCC rules, the only was Samp-
son could have been found guilty and
not been expelled or suspended was if
the case involved ‘‘unusual extenua-
tion.”

Michael R. McAllister, chairman
of the SCC, said he could not com-
ment on what the extenuating cir-
cumstances were.

Sampson said Wednesday that he
thought the punishment was fair and
that he would not appeal.

Social probation prohibits him
from attending any fraternity or
university-sponsored social func-
tions. Conduct probation is a warning
that if he appears before the SCC
again, then his case will be viewed
more harshly.

All SCC decisions are reviewed by
the Student Affairs Committee,
which is made up of teachers,
students and administrators. The
SAC was to have reviewed the SCC
decision this afternoon, according to
Dean of Students Lewis G. John,
chairmanoftheSAC.  ,

John said the SAC either could ac-
cept the SCC decision or send it back
to the SCC for further consideration.

Sampson told the Phi last week
that he did not shoot Atkins’ daughter
on purpose, that he had not meant to
hit anyone with the dart and that he
didn’t find out that the girl had been
hit until the next day.

He wrote her an apology.

University Proctor Charles F.
“Murph” Murray said the dart was
at least four inches long. It hit the girl
in the back of the shoulder, Atkins
said, penetrating about a half-inch in-
to her skin.

The dart might have gone in deeper
had it not hit the seam of the teen’s
denim jacket. She also was wearing a
heavy sweater

nationally-affiliated sororities in
Virginia.

Bradford had planned to simply
moderate the symposium, but repre-
sentatives from Dickinson College
were unable to attend due to incle-
ment weather, and she briefly talked
about the umbrella structure of na-
tional sororities.

Explaining the framework of local
sororities at the University of the
South were Dean Cushman and
E’lane Carr. They emphasized the
fact that their status as local
sororities afforded them much
greater autonomy and enabled them
to have much lower-key rush.

Allison Bartell, an administrator at
the University of Richmond, spoke
about the situation on her campus
where national sororities are col-
onizing. She explained that one of the

 

primary reasons for choosing na-
tional sororities was the network of
resource people available to assist
them in their efforts.

National sororities differ greatly
from national fraternities in that
they are more structured, have more
guidelines, and are more involved in
the direct administration of in-
dividual chapters, she said.

Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins, asso-
ciate dean of students, explained the
eating clubs at Davidson College.
Students from Davidson backed out
at the last minute. He said that some
of the clubs are single-sex, and others
are co-ed. Methods of joining the
clubs vary from being chosen to
simply signing up.

Reaction to the symposium was
mixed. ‘I think it went really well
because we had a good turnout from

Sure it’s pretty, but...

As the snow fell, Washington and Lee students amus-
ed themselves with snowballs, and other cold weather

ing.

mittee with senior Tom Knight, the
pie-throws will be one of many ex-
citing events lined up for the 18-hour
dance.

“Several administrators and facul-
ty members have already volun-
teered their time and faces to the
MDA cause,”’ Knapp said. Dean
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins and Coach
Daly are scheduled to be victims,
among others.

“The way the pie-throw works,”’
Knapp continued, ‘‘is that all those
present at the dance, dancers and
non-dancing participants alike, bid
on the pies that are to be thrown. The
pleasure, in effect, goes to the
highest bidder.”

In addition to the numerous special
events, several popular bands are
scheduled to play at various times
during the dance. Spiedel, Goodrich,
and Lille, a band originally formed at
the University of Virginia, will per
form 1-4 p.m. Saturday afternoon.
Covacus will perform at 7 p.m. that
evening, followed by the White
Aminals at approximately 10 p.m.

Tickets for attending all three per-
formances will cost $8.50, and can be
bought at the door.

During the interludes between
bands, taped music from WLUR dise
jockeys will be played on the air and
at the dance.

‘We're very excited at the overall
interest in this year’s dance,’ said
Barker. “Numerous student organi-
zations, from Kathekon to the frater-
nities, have already pledged their
S| :
‘“‘We’re counting on a great deal of
participation,’ continued Thagard.
“We hope to double the number of
dancers from last year’s total of 150,
and while there is no guarantee that
we'll reach this number it does look
promising.”

reactions

both the freshman and sophomore
classes. Everyone there was really
interested and raised questions that
had not been raised before,’’ said
Alston Parker, a sophomore and
president of the Women’s Forum.

“It wasn’t just one-sided, either.
Even though some of the people were
unable to come, the ones who did
spoke very honestly about sororities,
both local and national ones. They
brought out both the pros and cons,”
she said.

“If I hear one more time that
sororities will make women more in-
dependent, I think I’ll be sick. That's
what really aggravated me about it,”’
said Sophomore Margaret Pimblett.
“It’s not that I’m for or against
sororities; I, personally, don’t see the
need for them,”’ she said

 

By Perry S. Haves/The Ring-tum Phi

activities such as sidewalk sledding and highway ski
 

 

 

OPINION

 

Sunday blues

One of the primary foundations of our country is the
separation of church and state. The first amendment ex-
pressly states that ‘‘Congress shall make no law respecting
the establishment of religion, or the free exercise thereof.’’

Recently, several stores have had to close their doors on
Sundays because of the enforcement of the so called ‘Blue
Laws”’. According to an article in The Rockbridge Weekly on
Jan. 12, David Mertz, manager of Maxway, has estimated
that in Rockbridge County, $900,000 worth of sales will be lost
and employees will lose $78,000 in wages as a result of the

Sunday closings.

The laws that dictate that stores that carry only “‘nonessen-
tial items” should close on Sunday seem to be breech of the
separation of church and state. If a particular shop owner
chooses not to open his store on Sundays because of his own
religious beliefs, that’s fine. The constitution was designed to

give him that perogative.

However, a law that is designed to force all citizens to
“rest” on a particular religion’s sabbath is not only
presumptuous, but goes against the very beliefs that helped
form America. It seems reasonable that any religion could
ask that stores close on their sabbath as well, and con-
ceivably the work week could be cut in half.

To area business in particular, the blue laws spell bad
news. Because of certain exemptions to the laws, stores such
as Kroger and SuperX may stay open, and therefore may get
increased business on Sundays, while other stores that carry
mostly items that can’t be sold on Sunday must close. As
Maxway manager Mertz predicted, the area is bound to lose
money because of the enforcement of the laws. Mertz said the
ability of the local store keepers to serve the needs of
tourists, students, and those who use the horse center will be

inhibited.

We respect the rights of those who choose to revere Sunday
as the sabbath and a day of rest. However, they should
respect the rights of their neighbors, and should not support a
law forcing a belief upon a mass community.

A small town’s
fond memories

 

MY VIEW
By Susan Lewis

 

This is the time of year that many
W&L students begin to complain
about the monotony and boredom of
Lexington. One has to admit that this
stretch between Christmas and
Washington Holidays seems rather
long. It is of course much shorter
than the long haul between the start
of classes and Thanksgiving, but
mentally is does at times seem to last
much longer.

It is almost assuredly all in the
mind, but it is true that there are no
major social ocassions in January
and February. On the other hand as
soon as classes resume after vaca-
tion in February, everyone’s mind
immediately turns to Fancy Dress.
After that (although of course with
much less anticipation) students
have to buckle down in preparation
for finals. It only adds greatly to the
boredom that it is cold and there can
be none of the fall or spring trips to
Goshen or Panther Falls.

So, it is in this six-week time period
that many people, in the midst of the
mid-winter blahs, begin planning
long, elaborate road-trips to places
where “surely there must be more
going on than in Lexington!” Cars
suddenly become a hot commodity
and long-lost high school friends are
suddenly remembered--in such
places as Georgetown-in the hopes of
finding a free place to crash for the
night.

These road-trips do indeed serve as
a great relief from boredom and the
resulting tension and frayed nerves,
but I thought-although it may be
presumptuous — that perhaps by

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF

HOMO. occ crccccccccccvcvscccvcscceens

Sparta BAO wc ccc ccccesscsstsess
Photography Editor...............00006
Assistant Sports Editor.................
Assignment Editor ..............ccee0

EDITORIAL PAGE

Editorial Page Editor ...............44.

BUSINESS STAFF

Advertising Mamager .................45
Clreulation Mamager...........cccccceee

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24458. This newspaper observes current court

definitions of libel and obscenity.

Trirttriee i Ce
CUR REES 0000 dscdsssbedatii ews John Pensec

COWEN CLC Osea eae ee enbaeeeeds Perry Hayes
UAPERRUN C0 ces cas eeeecedevees Mike Shady
Caer eeredestrecescesceccs MOOVOE WEIMOS

FUERTE bib G eed ences secnes tenes Marie Dunne
SE REV LC Re bes eee een cend Chris Bowring

Bawah eek 000) bbs iosseccienedeel Robert Jones
Ob beCK ses eereeereecoenes Mathew Horridge

relating a little bit of what life is like
in the town I’m from, people would
know that there are indeed towns
smaller and with less to do in them
than Lexington. Yes, I know that
many people have just now exclaim-
ed, ‘‘What, she’s got to be kidding!”’,
but I’m not. I never can help but
smile to myself when people moan
and groan about how horribly small
Lexington is. Here are the slightly
stunning statistics — the town of
Wachapreague, Virginia has slightly
over 400 year-round residents. There
are no movie theatres in town. The
two within a reasonable driving
distance are about twenty minutes
away, and are open only on
weekends, with only one showing
nightly, Friday, Saturday, and Sun-
day. The only bowling alley ‘‘near
by” is an hour’s drive. The closest
cities are each over an hour away,
with the added, inconvenience shall
we say, of paying a nine dollar toll
each way to cross the Chesapeake
Bay to goto Virginia Beach.

Needless to say, there is not much
todo there. I’ve lived there all my life
and of course I’ve moped around the
house many times, complaining to
my parents that there was nothing to
do, But when it comes right down to
it, I would not have exchanged my
hometown for any other place in the
world. And I really believe that that
is the way most W&L students feel
about Lexington. Sure, it gets boring.
There are times when we simply
have to get out of here, and when our
four years are over, most of us will
leave, But in looking back on our col-
lege years, we’ll treasure Lexington
dearly, and the memories of the bor-
ing times will fade. We only need to
realize now that there are places
smaller than Lexington and that
someday we’ll remember only the
good times — and we wouldn’t trade
it for any other college in the world.

 

 

 

eS
U

TU

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 29, 1987

 

Sami
SANE,

(= N= NWS

7 oH SMSO.

 

 

 

 

ose AFTER A BRIEF WAIT IN THE CASHIER'S LINE, THE YouN@ STODENT

LOOKS AROUND THE. CO-OP FoR AN EMPTY BOSTH.

 

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

Student advocates ‘shifted week’ for Easter

To The Editors:

I agree strongly, Mr. Pensec, with your
editorial about the vexing conflict between
Easter and the beginning of Spring Term. I ex-
tend particular praise to your mention of
“bureaucratic red tape.” Very amusing.

More importantly, I agree with your position
emphatically! Just how vexing is this problem of
the calendar when, as you observed, there is a
recent precedent for sidestepping such a con-
flict? I’m perfectly willing to go to classes on
Tuesday through Saturday. We did it in 1984, and
it was NO BIG DEAL. I’m sure others would be
willing to comply with such a shift.

Apparently, however, the faculty and ad-
ministration would prefer to éondone students’
absences on Monday, April 20. This is implied by
the alternatives mentioned in the front page arti-
cle about the calendar. Personally, if I lived far
away (which I don’t), I’d rather go to class dur-
ing a shifted week than miss class because the
schedule couldn’t be changed. Yet because some
hardheaded administrators feel our calendar is
etched in concrete, I am permitted to waste
some of the extensive tuition fee that my parents
pay to the business office. Thanks a lot.

I ask in closing: how tough is it really to shift
the calendar? If it stays as is, I suppose we’ll
deal with it. But I hope I don’t hear any pro-
fessors griping about their students’ failures to
catch up because of inconvenient travel plans,

John Prescott Rowe ’87

Readers voice opinions

To The Editors:

Last fall we wrote a letter to The Ring-tum Phi
that aroused interest in the administration and
faculty. To recapitulate the contents of our let-
ter, we are providing a brief summary. We ques-
tioned the new push by the administration for
professors to publish, the increasing size of the
student body, the apparent hostility of the ad-
ministration toward the fraternities, and the at-
tempt to imitate small northeastern schools by
the administration. As a result of our letter, we
were called in by the administration to discuss
our grievances.

This is a synopsis of the discussion. The ad-
ministration contended that the increase in the
size of the university is owed to two factors. The
first is to ensure that fraternities are protected
from declining numbers of men from which to
choose. The second is to guarantee that athletic
teams can be fielded. To respond to this increas-
ed enrollment, more professors will be hired,
maintaining the 11 to 1 student-teacher ration.
Publishing was explained as a means for pro-
fessors to be judged by their peers in their
academic field. And following small north-
eastern colleges where the student body lives,
studies, and socializes as a unit, the administra-
tion also seeks to bring W&L students back to
campus, and to centralize most aspects of
university life.

In response to the assertions of the administra-
tion, we would like to make these points. In
regard to fielding athletic teams, an increase of
300 in the student body has little impact in regard
to quality. For example, Sewanee (University of
the South) has less than 1,200 students, yet their
football teams, which are drawn from a small
student body, manage to beat ours. Centre Col-
lege also successfully fields athletic teams with
less than 800 students. In response to the hiring of
professors to maintain the ratio, we would like to
point out that students will be less familiar with
individual professors, and the increase in the
number of students will reduce the familiar at-
mosphere of the campus. Maintaining the ratio
addresses only part of problem associated with
an increased enrollment.

Concerning publishing, it should be recognized
as only one means of measuring the ability of a
professor — especially at a school which pro-
fesses to be a teaching college. There are pro-

fessors here who stay abreast of their field
through research, which, unlike publishing,
benefits students directly. The ability to teach
should be the main criterion for judging a pro-
fessor at W&L. For example, all candidates for a
position in the history department will lecture to
a class to see how well they teach, a move we
like. Teacher evaluations administered by
students would be another effective way of infor-
ming the W&L community of faculty strengths
and weaknesses.

Bringing students back to campus by building
residence halls is an act by the administration
that will weaken the fraternities. This policy is
inconsistent with the announced pro-fraternity
intent behind increasing the size of the student
body, This administrative direction threatens
the autonomy of fraternities, by placing their
social functions under tho watchful eye of the
hill. While regulations are necessary, total
regulation is not. If the honor code is to be more
than a slick marketing technique, students must
be free to choose, for better or for worse.
Students living off-campus are forced to make
their own decisions and accept the conse-
quences, while those living in university housing
are denied this opportunity. The sacrifice of a
perfectly-behaved student body is worth the
freedom for growth and maturity.

Our purpose in writing this letter is to bring
these issues out into the open, maintaining the
lines of communication between students, facul-
ty, and administration. All opinions should have
a share of the floor in order for the most produc-
tive change to result. Decisions should be made
by all parts of the university, not just the ad-

ministration.
Paul E. Giles 87
Gregg W. Kettles ’88

Lost late nights at Lloyds?

To The Editor:

The recent sign that has been posted in Lloyds
of Lexington that says ‘For Sale’ has come as a
great shock to me.

Lloyds has always been a place to go for late
night food after studying and partying. The video
games provide relief to students during exam
time and weeknight evenings.

To me Lloyds has become an institution in the
Washington and Lee community. When alumni
come back they even speak of the familiar say-
ing ‘‘Let’s go to Lloyds”’ for some late night food.

I think it would be a shame for Lloyds to be
sold and turned into a restaurant that would
serve beer and close at 11 p.m. Lexington needs a
place that provides food (like Lloyds) that is
open for 24 hours.

As I understand it the reason Lloyds is to be
sold is because the actions of students (including
myself) who catch a buzz and go to Lloyds and
throw food and make a mess. The employees at
Lloyds are sick and tired of having to put up with
this behavior. We of the W&L community should
be considerate of their feelings and straighten
our act before we lose this late night eating
establishment.

Tommy McBride '88

Senior dislikes gym’s ‘slime’

To The Editors:

I am writing this letter to complain about the
terrible conditions in the locker rooms and
bathrooms in the University gymnasium.

These places are real pits. There is some
serious slime growing on the floor of the men’s

showers, half of which don’t work to begin with
(why doesn’t someone fix the over one dozen
showers that don’t work?).

The sauna area is another place that has not
seen a mop for the better part of the last decade.

The conditions of these facilities reflect poorly
on the University, especially to anybody who is
visiting.

I don’t think it is asking too much for someone
to go in and clean these places up. The filth in the
locker rooms pose a serious health hazard and I
think it is the responsibility of the University to
do something about the situation.

I think I have also discovered a solution to the
basketball court shortage that Mike Shady men-
tioned in his column last week.

You will remember that Mr. Shady (and he is
rit thé ofly 6ne fo notice this problem) told us
that because the women’s volleyball team was
using Doremus gym for practice that there is no
longer anyplace for students to play pick-up
games.

Well, why don’t we let the women’s volleyball
team practice out at that great investment we
call the pavilion? All you have to do is tape down
some lines and put up a net and Bingo! — an in-
stant volleyball court.

This way the women can practice, the long
tradition of pick-up games will continue and we
will get some use out of that big tin shed where
we sometimes hold concerts. This way every-
body gets a chance to make the most of the the
athletic facilities.

Samuel J. Foley IV ’87

Who asked whom?

To The Editor:

In your January 22 issue, the front page
featured a news story by George G. Sparacio
with the headline ‘Easter clashes with class.”’
Referring to the fact that classes for the 1987
spring term start on Easter Monday, Mr.
Sparacio asserted that ‘‘the feeling of students in
general is one of indifference.”

Upon reading this sentence, two questions oc-
curred to me. First, whom did Mr. Sparacio
survey in making this assessment? Personally, I
am adamantly opposed to the start of classes on
Easter Monday, because it will force me to miss
Sunday worship and Easter dinner with my
family. Also, he must not have asked his own
editor, who objected to the current calendar on
page two of the same issue. Furthermore, I con-
ducted a random, unscientific poll and found that
all of those students with whom I spoke would
prefer to have Easter Monday off. Based on all of
this, I seriously doubt the accuracy of Mr.
Sparacio’s assertion.

My second question deals with the more
general subject of journalistic ethics. Again, I
wondered, whom did Mr. Sparacio question
before asserting that ‘‘the feeling of students in
general is one of indifference?” I know that he
did not ask the entire student body, because Mr.
Sparacio never asked for my opinion. Further-
more, try as I might, I could not find a single stu-
dent whom Mr. Sparacio had asked.

This, then, is my second question: What basis
does Mr. Sparacio have for making this broad,
sweeping generalization? How many students
did he survey? What exactly did he ask them?
Were his subjects representative of the student
body as a whole? Were any of them practicing
Christians? How many? Clearly, a survey in
which many or all of the participants were Jewis
would not accurately represented the opinions of
W&L “students in general.’’ What were the
specific numerical results of his poll? In fact, did
he ask any one at all, or did he simply turn an ap-
parent news article into an editorial?

I hope that Mr. Sparacio can refute my objec-
tions with solid, numerical evidence. If not, he
owes the readers of this newspaper an apology, I
await his response.

James B. Lake ’99

 

 
OPINION/NEWS

r

«“

 

frozen, too.

and one thing only — ice cream.

cherry?

summer confection, right?

coction to melt.

a Lexicon topic yet.

different perspectives.

the top vote-getter.

 

LEXICON

By Steve Pockrass

Emperor of ice cream

The days are cold. The nights are long.
Women from down the road get stuck in Lexington. They have but
one thing on their minds. Men notice these women. Their thoughts are

Yes, at times like these, most of us seem to scream for one thing,

What else gets you blood flowing like some soft serve in a sugar
cone? Or a big boat with a banana, some whipped cream and a

“‘Now wait,”’ you’ll say. Just who am I trying to kid? Ice cream’s a

Wrong. There are lots of advantages to eating ice cream in the
winter. You don’t have to worry about your teeth hurting from the cold
ice cream because they’re already chattering. You don’t have to
worry about sticky fingers because it’s too cold for this creamy con-

Yes, it’s definitely ice cream season.

So in the spirit of the season, I’ve been surveying people by phone to
determine their favorite flavors of ice cream. The survey is by no
means scientific, especially since I didn’t make any calls. I just left a
message on the old answering machine asking for the caller’s name,
phone number, message and favorite flavor of ice cream.

Of course, I didn’t say I was polling people. I didn’t even know I was
taking a survey until this past weekend when I realized I hadn’t chosen

Although the votes still are pouring in, the preliminary results may
be startling, even exciting. For those of you scared that Lexington is
too conservative and traditional, I’m pleased to inform you that there
was only one W&L vote for plain old vanilla, and that came from a cer-
tain Ring-tum Phi editor, who shall remain nameless.

Chocolate and chocolate almond fudge both got votes. So did
raspberry. It’s technically sherbet, not ice cream, but who am I to ex-
plain food to one of the dining hall folks?

The people at Sweet Things should be happy. There was one vote
each for amaretto almond, creme de menthe, Heath and Oreo. My
girlfriend likes vanilla fudge, I discovered, and someone else likes
chocolate ripple, which sound to be like the same flavor viewed from

One caller voted for chocolate chocolate chip. Does that make you a
chocoholicatholic, Margaret Mary?

Now although all I had to do was record the answers, conducting this
survey was no easy task. Some (boring) people didn’t respond. One
friend aplogized because he feared that his flavor of choice—which
would be in poor taste to print, and worse in ice cream—would make
me think he was calling me names.

One person told me I had a nice message. Another said that my
machine hurt, my message hurt and I hurt. I had to drink a whole fifth
of milk just to numb my senses after that one.

But the real coup de grace (or coupe de glace, if you will) was the
death threat I received a few Sundays ago. It always makes my day to
hear such a friendly voice tell me that hell is going to rain down on me,
and that not only will I be dead, but I’ll be f-ing dead.

I must admit, despite his poor taste in phone messages — worth one
year in prison and/or a $1,000 fine — he did have good taste in ice
cream. He was one of four people who voted for mint chololate chip,

Next week’s survey topic—fish heads.

 

 

By MARGARET PIMBLETT

~ Staff Reporter

 

The lecture by J. Stewart Bryan
which was originally scheduled for
Jan. 26 has been postponed until next
Monday, Feb. 2, because of the snow.

+ Bryan, the publisher of the Rich-

mond Times-Dispatch and News-
Leader, will be speaking in duPont

+ Auditorium, not Lee Chapel as
, originally scheduled.

Bryan is the 1987 recipient of the

’ First Amendment Award, which is
. given annually by the Washington

.

and Lee chapter of the Society of Pro-
fessional Journalists, Sigma Delta

» Chi.

Bryan is being honored for his
leadership role in the Richmond
, Newspapers’ litigation that resulted

in a landmark decision by the United
" States Supreme Court. The Rich-
+ mond newspapers case established
; that the closing of a criminal court

Interviews by
; SYDNEY MARTHINSON

 

      
     
   

Bryan’s lecture is
‘moved to Monday

trial in the absence of overriding
counter interest was invalid under
the First and Fourteenth Amend-
ments.

Bryan graduated from the Univer-
sity of Virginia in 1960 with a B.A.
degree in philosophy. He began his
career in journalism after spending
two years with the U.S. Marine
corps. He served as a reporter for the

Tampa Times and the Richmond

Times-Dispatch until 1968, when he
was named vice-president of the
Tribune Company in Tampa.

He became executive vice presi-
dent of the Tampa papers in 1971 and
was named publisher in 1976. In 1978,
Bryan became publisher of the two
Richmond papers. Elected to the
board of directors of Media General
in 1974, Bryan was named vice chair-
man in January 1985, and executive
vice president in October 1985.

Bryan joined Sigma Delta Chi in
1967 and is a member of the board of
directors of the Associated Press and
the Virginia Press Association.

    

 

 

Tonya Pergola,
| Eastern, Conn.

“Hopefully, I don’t want it to
start until maybe five years from
now because they’re too few of us
and cliques will form.”

freshman,

 

Anna Hampton, sophomore, Dal-
las, Tx.

“T would like to see sororities or
some sort of women’s organiza-
tion at W&L next fall so that the
freshmen and sophomore girls
can get to know each other bet-
ter.”’

 

 

Shortage

chafes
student

MY VIEW

By Clement Edward
Klank III

 

 

Baltasar Gracian once said, ‘“‘The
greatest wisdom often consists in ig-
norance, or the pretense of it.’’ Just
the other day, I came across a pro-
blem on campus, one which presents
a case of blatant discrimination. I
would like to present this problem to
you (the reader) by an adaption of
my experience. All names have been
changed and/or withheld in order to
protect the innocent.

On a weekday afternoon, I was
spending some time in The Book-
store/Food Cooperative. After trying
a free sample of tasty frozen yogurt,
I sat down and ate some french fries.
I did not put any of the co-op’s ket-
chup on them — it looks like watered-
down tomato paste. After I finished
eating, I decided to go into the
bookstore and see if they had any
new plaid, “party animal’’ boxer
undershorts. It appeared to me that
they still have the same inventory as
they did at the beginning of the year.
I cannot imagine them not selling
alot of them. I then decided to see
what new stuffed animals they had. A
new “Garfield” caught my eye. At
that moment, a male coed, wearing a
silk/satin sweatsuit, made his en-
trance. On the back of his shirt,
“Flash” was spelled out. On his right
sleeve he had a David Lee Roth pat-
ch. For purposes which will become
evident later, I referred to him as
“Rash.” As he approached the sales
clerk, I noticed he was in much pain.
Exasperated, he finally made it to
the sales desk. I knew he was suffer-
ing greatly. ‘‘Rash’’ explained to the
clerk that he had been jogging. Dur-
ing his run, he had rubbed himself
raw, and he desperately needed some
type of antifungal ointment. The
clerk turned and looked at the shelf of
toiletries. She couldn’t find any groin
ointment. She told ‘Rash’ that they
had toothache medicine, Midol, and
an extensive selection of feminine
protection, but surprisingly no groin
medicine. Finally, after accepting
the fact that the bookstore had no
ointment for his potentially serious
problem, ‘‘Rash”’ painfully exited,
his future uncertain.

The potential implications of this
problem should be obvious. Although
the bookstore carries a rather com-
plete line of toiletries for the females’
personal needs, it does not begin to
meet all of the male’s medical needs-
case in point, jock rash. Don’t get me
wrong, I have been in favor of
feminine protection from the very
beginning, but, I also feel it is very
important that the bookstore keeps a
supply of antifungal ointment. Just
imagine, if all the male students at
Washington and Lee were joggers, it
would be possible that their groins
could rot away, just because the
bookstore does not carry any rash
ointment. I am upset and shocked. I
hope something can be done before
the problem becomes irreverisible.
Equality for all! The bookstore must
realize its mistake. Groin ointment
must arrive on campus. For now,
however, we can only sympathize
with “Rash” and other victims. In
conclusion, a Japanese proverb:
“Don’t take a gilded sword to cut a
radish.”

    

The Ring-tum Phi, January 29, 1987

 

 

Bringing
MY VIEW
By Mark Farley

 

 

The construction of the Gaines
Residence Hall suggests that
students are being encouraged to
leave their Lexington apartments
and country houses and return to the
fold of the W&L community. Many
would like to see an increase in the
number of students living on campus
in a dorm or in the Wood’s Creek
Apartments. This is not a good idea.

Don’t get me wrong; the building of
a new dorm in itself is not a bad
thing. As almost all would agree, the
residence hall is sorely needed. But,
as the administrators of the Universi-
ty plan for the school’s future, they
should resist the temptation of trying
to make Washington and Lee a self-
contained entity surrounded by the
Lexington community.

There are definite advantages to
attending a university that, because
some students life off campus, isn’t a
prisoner to its own boundaries. W&L
and its students are insulated enough
from the outside world as it is.

    

 

Already people view college as a
monastic life in an ivory tower (well,
not exactly monastic, but you get the
idea...). The development of a stu-
dent body residing directly on the
campus would only intensify this
perception. Students need to be away
from the idyllic environment of the
University, even if it is just so they
can experience mean landlords,
greedy utilities and the frustration of
daily commuting.

College is a time when students are
weaned from the protection and
guidance of an entity ‘‘in loco paren-
tis.”’ Living away from the Universi-
ty forces us to acknowledge that the
campus and Washington and Lee will
not always be the center of our lives.

More importantly, living off cam-
pus gives the students some sense of
their role in, and their respon-
sibilities towards, the city and people
of Lexington. Living in dorms only
heightens our feeling of isolation
from the community. Renting a
house or an apartment requires us to
learn to be good neighbors and
tenants, not just guests.

Granted, living off campus does
distance the students from the

Roe v. Wade prompts

RRR TEATAER N ilEATI
By MARGARET PIMBLETT and

MARIE DUNNE
Staff Reporters

The Rockbridge Valley Chapter of
the National Organization for Women
held a demonstration Friday in the
Courthouse Square to commemorate
the 14th anniversary of the Supreme
Court decision in Roe v. Wade which
legalized abortion in the first
trimester of pregnancy.

About 15 people carried signs in
favor of legal abortion on demand
and walked through nearly a foot of
snow in the square.

Chapter Coordinator Pamela
Simpson said, ‘‘We felt the need to do
this locally because there has been
recently a right-to-life group that has
formed. We felt it was really
necessary for us to take a public
stand right now to say that there are
lots of people, in fact we feel a ma-
jority of people, who support the
Supreme Court decision.

Simpson listed several points
which she said indicated that the na-
tional consensus supports a woman’s
choice. Among these were results of
a Peter Hart & Associates pool show-
ing 74 percent of Americans suppor-
ting the Roe v. Wade decision. She

 

Anne Large, sophomore, Rich-
mond, Va.

“They’d provide an opportunity
for all the girls to get together and
havea place where they can meet,
and for them to have a social op-
tion other than fraternities.”’

Benny Savage, sophomore, Pied-
mont, Calif.

“Tt’s too new for us to have it. I
went to the sorority symposium...
we'd only be able to have three
sororities because of our small
number. If you had one building
and all the sororities were
together it wouldn't be too cliquey
and that way I'd be for it.”

also said that 21 of 22 attempts to
pass state level anti-abortion
measures have failed, and that the
one which passed was a Colorado rul-
ing limiting ‘‘state funding for health
care for women.”’
The irony of al] of these right-wing ef-
forts is that what they do is take the
right away from the women who
can’t afford to have them (abor-
tions),’’ Simpson said. ‘‘It’s just the
way the Reagan administration is
trying to take away the right of
women to control their bodies, while
they’re also at the same time taking
away funding for nutrition. They’re
forcing poor women to have children
and then taking the right away from
them to support them and let these
children grow up and be healthy.”’
Hazel Bernard, co-coordinator of
the NOW chapter, said that the rally
had originally been scheduled for
Thursday afternoon, the actual an-
niversary of the Supreme Court deci-
sion, but was postponed because of
the snow. “A major reason for our
being here was so that the people in
the community could see visible
evidence that there is support for the
decision, and we obviously thought
that there wouldn’t be that many peo-
ple out on the streets yesterda

 

 

Rick Norris, junior, York, Penn.

“I really don’t see it as affecting
the fraternity situation very
much. I actually don’t see it as a
necessity for a couple of years. It
will be a lost closer to reality with
a few more number of girls.”’

Ma er ae yw
ational Student News Se

us back home

 

 

 

diverse extracurricular oppor-
tunities and activities that are of-
fered on campus. It seems unlikely,
however, that a student who is un-
willing to walk or drive for five
minutes to see a Contact lecture,
would even bother to leave his dorm
room and go across campus to see
the speaker. Anyway, most students
who live off campus stay in the even-
ing to study at the Library.

In addition, the creation of more
university-sponsored housing would
place an added stress on the fraterni-
ty system. All of the fraternities must
fill their rooms in order to be cost ef-
fective; and one of their principle at-
tractions has always been their prox-
imity to the Hill. A glunt of campus
housing would make it more difficult
for the fraternities to fill their rooms
without requiring their members to
live there.

Some students will want to live on
campus. They should not be denied
that right. If more campus housing is
needed, it should be built. Yet, on the
whole, the students and the school
will be better off if they are directed
out into the community and not back
on themselves.

local vigils

(Thursday),”’ Bernard said.

Constance R. Harvey, 82, a resi-
dent of Rockbridge County, said,
“When I was young and at risk I
would never have had an abortion.
But I have lived long enough to feel
deeply that it is very immoral to
bring a child into the world who has
no real prospect of a decent life and a
future. I think this is something that
people nowadays have to consider
very seriously.”

“Tt is a dreadful thing to have to
have an abortion, but it is very wrong
to have anyone impede a woman's in-
dividual choice,” Harvey said.

“Recently a local anti-abortion
group has organized in Lexington.
We felt the need to take this public
stand to assure that both sides of the
issue are heard,”’ read a statement
handed out at the NOW demonstra-
tion.

The anti-abortion group the state-
ment refers to is the Rockbridge
Christian Action Council, which held
a prayer vigil for the unborn at the
Grace Presbyterian Church in Lex-
ington Thursday evening. The vigil
had originally been planned to be
held at the Lexington Courthouse

C See Roe v. Wade, page 4

Photographs by
JOSEPH GEITNER

 

Marty Smith, freshamn, Houston,
Tx.

“T think they would give the
girls a chance to be more unified
like the guys do in fraternities.”

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 29, 1987

 

Otey inspires lectures

 

Staff Reports

 

“The women’s movement has as
its goal political and economic
equality for men and women. Equal
rights will bring equal duties and
women may neither shirk nor dodge
their responsibilities. In the
economic field equal pay for equal
work must be the slogan. When
women seek competitive positions
they must be equally as efficient as
men applying for the positions, nor
dare they, because of sex, underbid
men competitors and so lower the
standards of living for both sexes.”’

The author of those words, written
in 1929, is Elizabeth Lewis Otey who
set forth her personal views in a
Lynchburg newspaper in a story en-
titled “What Women Must Do To
Reach The Goals Feminism Has
Set.” The writing stands as a
testimonial to Otey’s political ac-
tivism in the women’s movement in
the first half of this century and to the
timelessness of the issues in that
movement.

Washington and Lee University
will inaugurate a lecture series in
Otey’s honor at 4:30 p.m., Monday,

February 9, when Colorado Con-
gresswoman Pat Schroeder will
deliver the first Elizabeth Lewis Otey
Lecture. The lecture, in Northen
Auditorium in the University
Library, is free and open to the
public.

Otey, who died in 1974 at the age of
93, was among the first suffragettes
who marched on the White House in
support of the women’s rights move-
ment. A graduate of Bryn Mawr Col-
lege in 1901, Otey studied at the
University of Chicago and took her
Ph.D. at the University of Berlin in
1907.

Upon returning to this country, she
became a special agent of the Bureau
of Labor where she was engaged in
the federal investigation into the con-
ditions of employment of women and
children, and wrote the sixth volume
of the report titled ‘The Beginning of
Child Labor Legislation in Certain
States.”

In an interview with the ‘‘Roanoke
World-News” shortly before her
death, Mrs. Otey said she was “‘born
believing’ in the women’s rights
movement. She was the daughter of
one prominent Virginia suffragette,

Elizabeth Lewis, and the niece of
another, Orra Gray.

“We had a splendid suffrage move-
ment in Virginia and all of us were
there — Mary Johnston, a novelist,
and Lila Valentine and Ellen
Glasgow, another novelist of great
distinction,’ said Otey in the inter-
view.

Otey was one of the first women in
Virginia to run for public office when,
in 1921, she unsuccessfully ran as the
Republican nominee for superinten-
dent of public instruction. She said in
the interview that she accepted the
nomination ‘scared to death” and hit
the campaign trail where one polit-
ical meeting was hastily called off
when it was announced she was com-
ing.

Otey, the interview said, ‘scowls
at the idea that women need protec-
tion. And she approves of today’s ac-
tivists who are fighting such outdated
notions. Women’s lib? ‘I don’t even
know what they men by ‘lib’. Liberty,
I suppose. But certainly women
ought to exercise their political
obligations and duties — just as men
do.”’

Arby’s re-opens in town

By STACY MORRISON
Staff Reporter

 

Arby’s, on Main Street in Lex-
ington, has reopened after closing
this summer due to financial
troubles. The fast-food chain
restaurant opened again on Monday,
November 20 for a one-day trial-run
and has remained open since.

Jon Markley, a co-owner of the
restaurant, said that he decided to
close Arby’s because of “financial
gymnastics and confusion.”’ In Oc-
tober of 1985, he and his brother, Don,
bought the Lexington Arby’s and two
others in Lynchburg. Then, the
Manor Hotel, the central business in
the building that houses Arby’s, went

bankrupt in February of last year.
The hotel had a long lease with high
rates, and the financial burdens were
passed onto the other merchants of
the building, including Arby’s and
Lexington Lighting and Electric Sup-
ply.

Eventually, Markley decided to
sell Arby’s back to the First Virginia
Bank in Roanoke, he said. However,
the bank returned at the end of the
summer and offered to renegotiate
the terms of the lease. The bank
“really went out on a limb to help,”
Markley said. The new lease includes
a “retail clause” that allows the
lease terms to fluctuate in accor-
dance with the business that Arby’s
receives. The lease period has been

Third-year convicted

By JEFF HARWOOD
Staff Reporter

A Washington and Lee third-year
law student was found guilty on the
charges of petit larceny and conceal-
ment of merchandise under $200 in
Lexington General District Court on
Tuesday, Jan. 13. Deborah Lynn
Montgomery, 25, of Renick, W.Va.,
was fined $50 and sentenced to six
days in jail or 24 hours of community
service.

Montgomery had been charged
with two counts of petit larceny on
Dec. 7, but one of the charges was
reduced to concealment of merchan-

ROE v. WADE

 

— Continued from page 3

Square, but had to be moved because
of last Thursday’s snowstorm.

Scott Dittman, secretary of the
Christian Action Council, led the half-
dozen people who braved the weather
through the prayer vigil ceremony,
which included Scripture readings,
silent prayer, and hymn.

“Obviously, the Roe/Wade deci-
sion had a big effect on the way the
United States does things. We
thought (the anniversary) was an ap-
propriate day to get together and use
about the only power any of us have,
and that’s the power of pray-
er..hopefully, to change the law,”
said Dittman about the ceremony.

One of the long range goals of the
Rockbridge Christian Action Council
is to establish Crisis Pregnancy
Center in this area. Dittman said the
center would provide not only

dise. David Mertz, manager of the
Maxway department store in Lex-
ington, called police after he saw
Montgomery leave with a full black
purse that he had not noticed when
she entered the store.

Officer J.R. Knick of the Lexington
Police Department arrested her at
the nearby Mick-or-Mack super-
market on Walker Street and charg-
ed her with two counts of petit
larceny.

Montgomery has appealed her
case to the Rockbridge County Cir-
cuit Court. The next misdemeanor
hearing is tentatively scheduled for
March 9 at 9a.m.

ministry during the unplanned
pregnancy, but will hopefully offer
material assistance in the form of
maternity clothes and baby needs to
those women who need it.

 

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

1/2 OFF
WINTER CLEARANCE

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Gifts for all occasions

R. Sheridan

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

 

* Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy®
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

* Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
airi-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

° Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

 

e Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.
¢ Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 6:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
jarlic bread you can eat tor
nly $3.49, Children under é
years-9%.

 

 

Pizza
~Hut.

© 1985 Pizza Hut, Inc.

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington

463-7000

 

reduced to a five-year lease with a
renewal option, as opposed to the
twenty-year lease under which Ar-
by’s had been leasing before.
Markley finds that the new leasing
plan is ‘‘much better and more sensi-
ble.” Ask about the bank’s actions
and employees, Markley said ‘They
are super people — did a real nice job
of saving the businesses in the
building.”

Arby’s is no longer offering the stu-
dent discounts that they had before
they closed. Markley said, “It ended
up creating a lot of problems for us
more than anything else.’’ But,
Markley added, they plan to offer
coupons to Washington and Lee and
the community of Lexington instead.

 

 

Seasonal problems

 

& By Mathew Horridge/The Ring. tum i

Some Washington and Lee students try to figure out how to help a stranded car get free in front of the

Gilliam-Davis quad.

ICAREER CORNER

North Carolina National Bank, February 3, 39 interview slots
Stouffer Foods, February 3, 26 interview slots

Bank of Virginia, February 4, 13 interview slots

Varnett Banks of Florida, Inc., February 5, 13 interview slots
First Jersey Securities (Richmond), February 5, 13 interview slots
The Upjohn Company, February 5, 13 interview slots
Kayser-Roth Hosiery, Inc., February 10, 13 interview slots
Sovran Bank, February 10, 26 interview slots

Lord and Taylor Information Session, February 10, Alumni House,
7:00-9:00 p.m. All seniors welcome

Lord and Taylor, February 11, 39 interview slots

Best Products Company, Inc., February 12, 13 interview slots
Dominion Bank, February 12, 13 interview slots

The B.F. Goodrich Company, February 12, 26 interview slots
Northwestern Mutual Life, February 13, 13 interview slots
ASGO Manufacturing, Inc., February 25, 13 interview slots
Britches of Georgetowne, February 25, 26 interview slots
Merck Sharp and Dohme, March 13, 13 interview slots

NCR Corporation, March 17, 13 closed (resumes mailed 2-24-87)
Milliken, March 20, 13 interview slots

Hertz Corporation, April 7, 13 interview slots

 

-

 

Vienneau
to perform

Staff Reports

 

 

 

 

The

 

WALKER

 

includes:

potatoes or rice.

 

Early Evening Specials Offered

5:30 - 7:00 p.m.
$10

© Choice of our selected entrees with

© Soup or house salad or fresh vegetable.
© Rolls and butter, :
© Coffee, tea, milk or soda.
Lunch 11:30-2:30 Tues.-Fri.
Dinner 5:30-9:00 Tues,-Sat.
Closed Sunday & Monday

 

30 N. Main
Lexington, Virginia
463-3020

Stress management
Relationships

00 Work overload

 

 

 

     
   

Aluvin-Bennis

Selective Outerwear
14 Price

  

waiters,

 

     

Corduroy Pants
1 Price

 

 

WINTER _ SPRING

Scholarships Available for
Superior Students to Study and

INTERN
in LONDON and
WASHINGTON

Students may earn up to six semester credits (three in
Summer) in Academic internships with added credits
for courses in Politics, Journalism, Economics, Law
and International Relations.

Credits are transferred through

Hampden- Sydney College, founded in Virginia by
James Madison in 1776.

STUDY AT OXFORD ————_+

Students may also apply to study for one or
two terms at several colleges of Oxford University.
Graduate Study is an option.

   
 

SUMMER _ FALL

5

ski period.
art time.

° ag
to l1OP

 

 

 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE WRITE TO:
Washington International Studies Center
Room 713A, 901 Sixth Street, S.W.
Washington, DC 20024

EO/AA

are available

 

 

) Private Counseling

(2 blocks from campus)

Call for information

Lorae L. McDonald, L.C.S.W.

463-4927 or 348-5020
SNC NC INC IE NK NEC ONE NC HIE NC AC EE

SPANKY’S

HELP WANTED: Full or part time
waitresses, deli workers,
bartenders.

Apply in person

87 COLLEGE DAYS

Washington and Lee University
senior Robert A. Vienneau will give a
solo piano recital Tuesday, February
3, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel on the W&L
campus. The concert is free and open
to the public.

Vienneau is well known to Lex-
ington audiences, having given solo
performances annually since 1984, as
well as performing at various univer-
sity functions. He is also accom-
panist for the university choral
groups, the Glee Club, Chorus, and
Southern Comfort.

A native of Montreal, Vienneau
studied piano with Irving Heller and
is continuing his studies with
Timothy R. Gaylard, instructor of
music at —— and Lee. :

Depression
Anxiety
Loneliness

 

8
i
i
i

 

Lift
Ticket

$

  
 
 

Ski
Rentals

For the Class of ’87 (And those who follow)
Massanutten has lift rates you won't need a
college degree to appreciate.

¢ Come for any Monday or Friday Twilight
¢ Present your valid college student ID, full or

uy a lift ticket for just $8. Rentals for $7.
a 9¥, hours on the slopes from 12:30

Special College Days lift ticket and rental rates
: Twilight Skiing on Monday

and Friday only. Other special rates and dis-

counts may not be applied to these rates.

Gl MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

 

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 29, 1987

 

Hampsters halt Generals’ win streak at three

 

By MIKE SHADY
_Assistant Sports Editor

In college basketball, those who
can handle pressure situations usual-
ly succeed while those who can’t
“break down and crumble. Tuesday
night, the Washington and Lee
basketball team turned into powder
‘as it blew a ten point lead with less
than three minutes left in the second
half and lost ot Hampden-Sydney,
81-78.

Unfortunately, the loss marred
what should have been a glorious mo-
ment for Jefferson Harralson. The
senior forward became only the four-
teenth player in W&L history to
reach the 1,000 point plateau in
career points.

The defeat also stopped W&L’s
winning streak at three, after a 80-78
‘overtime win at Emory University
last Saturday.

The Generals had a 75-65 advan-
‘tage with 2:51 remaining when the
Tigers mounted their comeback.
‘Juniors Gary Schott and Steve Han-
‘cock missed the front end of one-and-
one free throws and two quick

buckets by Griff Morris and a three-
point shot by Mike Wheeler brought
Hampden-Sydney to within three,
75-72.

“Our kids lost concentration,” said
head coach Verne Canfield. ‘They
assumed that they had won. You just
do not do that.”’

Senior Rob Spencer provided some
breathing room as his three point
play with 1:13 left bumped the lead
back up to six. However, with 33
seconds showing Ralph Baker hit a
three-point play of his own and the
Tigers had a 80-77 lead.

The Generals still had a chance
when with 15 seconds left Hancock’s
layup attempt spun out. W&L retain-
ed possession but a turnover and
subsequent foul shot by Baker gave
Hampden-Sydney its final margin of
victory. Sophomore Manny Klump
hit a three-point shot at the buzzer
but the officials ruled he was fouled
before he released the ball. So with
one second left, Klump went to the
line and the Generals’ chances had
slipped away once again.

Lately, W&L’s down falls have
usually been a result of a struggling
offense. This time it was the defense

that faltered as the Generals ripped
the chords to the tune of 59 percent.

“We didn’t play a good defensive
game,”’ said Canfield. ‘‘We let them
penetrate. We also let one young man
hit five three-pointers. That bothers
me.”’

The lone highlight of the contest
was Harralson’s individual perfor-
mance. With exactly 10:52 remaining
in the first half, Harralson nailed a
10-foot jumper for career points 999
and 1000. He finished the evening as
the leading scorer with 25 points, 11
rebounds and seven assists. Har-
ralson now ranks 12th on W&L’s all-
time scoring list.

‘He played an excellent basketball
game,” said Canfield.

Despite the adverse weather condi-
tions this past week, the Generals
were able to travel to Emory, nar-
rowly escaping with an overtime win.

Sophomore Lee Brading was high
scorer for both teams, tossing in 20
points before fouling out of the
ballgame. Support was provided by
Hancock and Harralson who scored
19 and 16 points respectively.

“I was pleased with Lee,” said

Swimmers down Div. | foe

 

By WILLIAM GEORGE
Staff Reporter

 

‘ Snow and bad weather conditions
that developed late last week turned
what the Aquatics program had
hoped to be their best weekend yet
this season into just another swim
meet.

, Plans that included leaving early
Friday afternoon and swimming
Johns-Hopkins that evening were
cancelled for both the Men’s and
Women’s squads.

However, the roads were clear
enough that they could travel by bus
to Towson State, in Maryland, early
Saturday morning, returning to the
Washington and Lee campus later
that night.

, The Men’s team had prepared all
week long for Division III top-five
Hopkins with what they felt was a
successful taper period.

Senior
Are you people-
oriented?

Are you looking for an
exciting way to spend
your last summer be-
fore entering a full-
time job?

The A Bar A guest
Ranch has 140,000
acres and is surround-
ed by national forest
and wilderness area, in
‘ the Medicine Bow

i Mountains of southern
» Wyoming. We have

| openings in all areas

   

»and would like to talk

. with you about the

. possibility of working
_with us. Call
,(307)327-5454, or write
,Bob Howe, A Bar A
_Ranch, Encampment,
WY 82325 for informa-
tion and an apniicati

eS ee ee See eee Gee Gee ae oe

Be sure
_ to check out
, the General Notes

   

 

Also a great selection of wooly socks,
warm gloves, handwarmers, and waterproof

jackets.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
 

COLD FEET?
WET FEET?

BOOT SALE

ON ALL BOOTS AND
4 WATERPROOF FOOTWEAR

Through this Saturday Only!

Browning® , Tony Lama® , Abilene® ,
ee American Footwear® , and

By dropping the yardage swum
every day, W&L head coach Page
Remillard allowed his men to rest
their bodies and become healthy, in
an attempt to upset their long time
rival. Careful roster work and
scouting of Hopkins’ times consumed
a major part of the coaching staff’s
week.

After a phone conversation with
the Johns-Hopkins coach, Remillard
seemed confident that the Generals
would have gained the victory they
were looking for. Hopkins had put
their strongest swimmers in the
events that W&L predicted they
would, and Remillard had concen-
trated on other events. “We would
have fooled them,” he said before a
hastily scheduled Friday afternoon
practice.

The Women’s team was not taper-
ing for the Hopkins meet, but they
were equally excited about the trip.
Since they were not scheduled to
swim on Saturday, they saw their

competition weekend go totally down
the tubes.

Towson State, a Division I pro-
gram, had no idea that the Generals
had rested for the weekend, and from
the first event, the 400-yard Medley
Relay, it was obvious that there was
no threat from the home team.

Although the Generals didn’t leave
smoke on the water, there were some
good swims this weekend.

Sophmore Moose Herring and
freshman Adam Morgan came from
20 yards back to out-touch their 200-
yard Butterfly opponent at the wall.
Morgan said that he had swam
against the Towson butterflyer
before, and he “knew that he would
die.”

Both the Men’s and Women’s
teams finally get a homestand this
weekend, with the two squads swim-
ming Shepherd on Friday night (7
p.m.) and Gettysburg on Saturday
(at noon).

 

Canfield. ‘‘He really took the bali to
the hole. (Freshman) Wes Boyd
came off the bench and did a good job
and the big men up front played well
also.”

Tied at 72 all at the end of regula-
tion, the Generals could have won the
game easily if it wasn’t for their dif-
ficulty at the foul line. W&L shot a
stellar 13 for 28 and Canfield explain-
ed the problem as a case of ‘‘one of
those games that they didn’t drop.”

The Generals’ record now stands at

9-6, 3-4 in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference. The team will play
Emory and Henry tonight at the
Warner Center. Tip-off time is
scheduled for 7:30.
HOOKSHOTS: The Generals are now
a combined 22 out of 46 from the
charity stripe in their last two
games... Senior guard Fred Bis-
singer didn’t make the Emory trip
because he had to partake in the
MBA exams. .. Canfield still has of-
fensive woes as the team is ‘‘still hav-
ing trouble consistently scoring from
the inside’’.... Junior Lou Trosch is
leading the Generals in field-goal ac-
curacy, hitting an incredible 67 per-
cent of his attempts...

dies to 408k es
W&L’s 1000-point Scorers |

Player Points Years

1. Dom Flora 2310 1954-58
2. Jay Handlan 2002 1948-52
3. Mel Cartwright 1800 1966-70
4. Mike Daniel 1665 1968-72
5. Skip Lichtfuss 1592 1970-74
6. Lee Marshall 1561 1954-57
7. John Lee Graves 1441 1980-84
8. Pat Dennis 1428 1974-78
9. Brian Hanson 1338 1979-83
10. Mike Neer 1289 1967-70
11. Rob Smitherman 1034 1977-81
12. JEFFERSON HARRALSON 1015 1983-87
13. Jim Rich 1005 1951-54
14, Dave Levnig 1005 1975-79

With 25 points on Tuesday night, senior forward Jeffer-
son Harralson joins the scoring elite by obtaining over
1,000 points for a career. At his present pace (21.3
pts./game), Harralson has a chance to become one of the
top 10 scorers in W&L history.

 

 

 

[ W&L Athlete of the Week]

 

 

efferson Harralson

   

 

ing 21.3 points and 7.3 rebounds

By JOHN PACKETT
each game.

Staff Reporter

 

Harralson said the team has
been playing well and hopes the
player’s confidence can build for
the end of the season and tourna-
ment time.

He feels the team needs a big
win to build confidence even
more.

“We play Emory & Henry
Saturday which would be a big
win,” said Harralson.

Emory & Henry was 16th in the
nation last week and Harralson
said he hoped fans would come out
and support the team in its try for
the win.

Harralson is a business major
from Princeton, Kentucky.

He was a_ basketball team
member at Caldwell County High
School where he earned honors on
the all-Kentucky team.

Senior basketball co-captain
player Jefferson Harralson
scored the 1,000th point of his
career in Tuesday’s game at
Hampden-Sydney. For that he has
been named the W&L Athlete of
the Week.

“It was a feeling of relief,” said
Harralson. ‘I’m just happy to
have reached it.”’

He needed 10 going into Tues-
day’s game and got them early. “I
scored 10 of the teams first 16
points, but didn’t know it until
later.”’

Harralson’s 25 points increased
his career total to 1015 which plac-
ed him 12th on the Washington and
Lee career scoring list.

Harralson leads the team in
scoring and rebounding, averag-

 

 

 

 

 

"”" Friday & Saturday Nights
January 23 & 24
in the

Reaper Room Lounge

Live and in person

KEVIN REYNOLDS

Dance to the Top 40 Music
Enjoy Kevin Reynolds’ tribute to - ELVIS,
JOHNNY MATHIS, and (believe it or not)
TINA TURNER
$3.00 Cover Charge

AT THE
QUALITY INN -RAPHINE

Midway between Lexington and Staunton take Exit 54 off I-81
For information and reservations phone (703) 377-2604

 

Raphine

ROUTE 1, BOX 438, RAPHINE, VIRGINIA 24472

 

 

 

 

Rubber Stable Boots.

 

 

aye JUN

 

TERGHUNTRESS,

18 E. Nelson St., Lexington
463-1800
Mon.-Sat. 10-5 Fri. 10-7

  
 

  

ae

sand and surf.

endurance.

 

 

BERMUDA
OLLEGE WEEKS -

When you break away this year,

Your College Week in Bermuda is more than just sun,

Right from the first outrageous “College Bash”
at Elbow Beach, it’s an unrelenting test of your

Spectacular seaside buffet luncheons. A calypso
and limbo festival like none other. Smashing dance-til-
you-drop beach parties, featuring Bermuda's top rock,
steel and calypso bands. Even a “Party Cruise and
Private Island Extravaganza” All compliments of the
Bermuda Department of Tourism.

Bermuda is all of this—and much, much more

UNIGLOBE EXECUTIVE TRAVEL CENTER, INC.

March 1to April 4,1987 9

  
   

do itwith styl
‘“
O it with style.
It's touring the island on our breezy mopeds
(Do remember to keep left!)

It's jogging on quiet country roads—includinig an
early morning 2-k “Fun Run” from Horseshoe Bay. t's
exploring the treasures in our international shops,
playing golf on eight great courses, and tennis on over
100 island-wide courts

But most of all, it’s the feeling you get ona tiny,
flower-bedecked island, separated trom everywhere
and everything by 600 miles of sea

rhis year, go wild. in style. See your Campus

Travel Representative or Travel Agent for details

Equitable Bank Center, Mezzanine Level
Columbia, Maryland 21004
(800) 247-7898
(202) 596-5473 (in D.C.)

(301) 964-8466 (in Md.)

TESTE SST Ts

 

 
 

:BACK PAGE

 

Satellites kick some butt

By CHARLIE GAY
Staff Reporter

 

Georgia Satellites self-titled first
album is not progressive, it covers no
new ground, and indeed, sounds
almost suspiciously familiar from
beginning to end. Despite this (or
perhaps because of it) ‘Georgia
Satellites’ lays down some of the
best damn rock ‘n’ roll put to vinyl in
years.

Though some have said that famil-
iarity breeds contempt, Satellites
dispells that cliche’ on its first listen.
From the Skynyrdesque crunch of
“Keep Your Hands To Yourself” to
the early Stones influenced ‘‘Nights
of Mystery,” you'll be wondering
where it was you heard all this
rollicking stuff before. And you'll be
stomping your foot the whole way, it
not giving the nearest broom the old
air guitar workout too.

Georgia Satellites is Dan Baird
handling lead vocals and guitar,
Mauro Magellan on drums, Rick
Price plunking on bass, and Rick
Richards wielding lead axe. Four
pretty rough lookin’ dudes, but
authors of a thoughtful as well as ass-
kicking record.

The Satellites themselves hail not
from a shack in the hills of North
Georgia complete with still and bare
feet (as you may have guessed from
the ‘Keep You Hands to Yourself”’
video) but the sprawling metropolis
of Atlanta. That’s important, be-
cause it gives a hint that they’re not
quite the grinning good ol’ boys they
may come off as initially. And if you
need a second clue, a close listen to a
few of the tunes, specifically the
lyrics, should do the trick.

The mere title of the first side’s
closing, “The Myth of Love’’ should
be some indication that something
beyond the standard jam session is
going on here. Baird daydreams,
“The Myth of Love, like some new
best friend/the bright promise of
tomorrow, and tomorrows without
end” and then reminds himself ‘‘but I
should know by now’”’ that its not ex-
actly all its cracked up to be.

In the end though, he admits “‘it
could save us, one and all.” Both
“Myth of Love’’ and its companion
piece, ‘Nights of Mystery’’ employ
the same, stripped down riffs that
made John Cougar Mellencamp’s
“Scarecrow” album s¢ popular. Only
the Satellites add about three extra

   
 
  
     
 
    
    
     
      
       
   
   
      
    
   
 
    
     
  
    
     
    
      
      
     
   
   
   
 

     

Safe:
Fast:
Powerful:
Complete:
Moveable:
Full Screen:
Built-in:
External Monitor Port
Serial & Parallel Ports

MS DOS 2.11
SideKick by Borland.

Available Options:

256K RAM Version:
List Price: $1,999

or $56.87 per month*

640K RAM Version:
List Price : $2,399

or $64.00 per month*

Headquarters:
Charlottesville, Va.
(804) 296-7560

Fully IBM compatible.
8086 7.2Mhz Processor

256KB or 640KB RAM

2 built-in 720KB 3.5" disk drives.

Runs up to 8 hours on built-in nicad battery.
640 x 200 resolution, 80 x 25 lines.

Battery backed clock, Calendar
External 5,25" Disk Drive Port

Internal Hayes Compatible Modem
External 5.25" Disk Drive

T1100+ to PC Floppy Link
Expansion Chassis holds 5 PC boards

W&L Price: $1,595

Georgia Satellites

helpings of volume and about five of
energy

There is also a strong element of
rural morality at the core of the
album which surfaces on the first
single, ‘Keep Your Hands To
Yourself,’ and especially what will
presumably be the second, ‘‘Bat-
tleship Chains.”’ In the former, a tale
of a lusty country boy and his coy
lady friend, Baird sing, ‘‘then she
tole me a story, ‘bout free milk and a
cow/and said no hugs and no kisses
until I get a wedding vow.” “Bat-
tleship Chains”’ is an even clearer ex-
ample, both the chorus (“you got me
tied down with battleship chains/
fifty-foot long with a two-ton an-
chor’’) and the lyrics (‘‘I can’t move
my arms to hug nobody/hug nobody
but you.””) These anecdotes and col
loquialisms appear because Georgia
Satellites are Southerners, probably
with rural ties, and unabashedly so.
Such touches add a not only regional,
but personal aspect to the album.
And by not overdoing it, the Satellites
come off as sincere, and not silly gap
toothed rednecks.

But enough about lyrics. The songs
themselves are grinding yet melodic

ORDER ONE PC COMPATIBLE --

TO GO:

TOSHIBA T1100 PLUS

W&L Price: $1,795

Now at a special price for students, faculty and staff of Washington and Lee University only. Come see the
Toshiba T1100 Plus at our new satellite location at the University Bookstore.
available the first and third Fridays of each month

DYNA

 

fe
Computer Products

*17% APR approved credit, 36 mo. Prices do not

 

 

 

straight from the spring rock ‘n’ roll.
And while some of it undeniably
sounds familiar, this works to the
bands advantage. ‘‘Can’t Stand The
Pain” could be the Allmans fused
with Thorogood, plus a dash of vin-
tage Rolling Stones. ‘‘Golden Light”
is R.E.M. with a blood transfusion,
and the quickened Southernized
cover of Rod Stewart and Ron Woods
“Every Picture Tells A Story’ is a
perfect response to the heads down
“Nights of Mystery” and an ap-
propriate close to the album. The
Satellites distill the best of various
artists to churn out a new brand of
eighties Southern rock. Listening to
the album, you can’t help but wonder
why somebody didn’t think of each
song already. ‘‘Georgia Satellites’ is
the obvious conclusion to the
Southern Rock question. They simply
threw out the country rock hang ups
and cranked out their own style of
straight-ahead rock ‘n’ roll.

If you couldn’t guess, I love this
album and you should, too. And

remember, you don’t have to be
Southern to
Satellites,” y’all.

praise ‘‘Georgia

 

   

A Dynabyte representative is

University Bookstore
Lexington, Va.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 29, 1987

CALENDAR"—~”_

| cosneenseuemememesninenstonetnmesteensne!

Thursday, January 29
4:30 p.m. — LECTURE: “The Judiciary in Times of
Crisis,’’ John Dugard, University of Witwatersrand,
Johannesburg, South Africa. Moot Courtroom, Lewis
Hall, Public invited.
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINARY: ‘‘Too Many Mc
Cooks Spoil You-Know-What,”’ Peter J. McCook °87
Room 401, Howe Hall. Tea at 4:30 in Room 402. Public
invited.
7 p.m. — Mock Convention '88 Informational Meeting
Northen Auditorium, University Library
Refreshments to follow in Boatwright Room
7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: “Doctor Zhivago.’’ Room
203, Reid Hall
7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Emory &
Henry. Warner Center

Friday, January 30
7 p.m, — POLITICS FILM: “Doctor Zhivago.’’ Room
203, Reid Hall.
7 p.m, — SWIMMING (M&W): Generals vs. Shepherd
College. Twombly Pool.
8 p.m, — FILM SOCIETY FILM: “I he Return of Mar
tin Guerre.”’ Classroom A, Lewis Hall.

Saturday, January 31
11 a.m. —INDOOR TRACK: V.M.L. Relays

 

i p.m. — SWIMMING (M&W): Generals vs. Get
tysburg. Twombly Pool.

1 p.m. — WRESTLING: W&L Triangular. Warner
Center. z
2 p.m. — OPERA BROADCAST: ‘Manon | ut
WLUR-FM (91.5) Z

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘Doctor Zhivago.”” Room
203, Reid Hall.

7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Lynchburg
College. Warner Center.

8 p.m, — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘The Return of Mar
tin Guerre,’ Classroom A, Lewis Hall

Monday, February 2
3 p.m. — CAREER WORKSHOP: Resume writing
Room 109, University Center.
7:30 p.m. — SLIDE LECTURE: “Our Search for the
True Columbus Landfall,” Joseph Judge, senior editor,
National Geographic Society. Lee Chapel. Public in
vited.

Tuesday, February 3
5 p.m. — BIOLOGY FORUM: “Ecology of Oak Disper-
sal by Blue Jays,” Dr. Curtis Adkisson, V.P.I. Room
305, Parmly Hall. Refreshments at 4:30. Public invited.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Robert A. Vienneau ’87, pianist
Lee Chapel. Public invited.

 

Junior Class Party is ‘paid for’

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

“It’s your party. You've already
paid for it.”

That is the sentiment of Junior
Class President Mike Henry, concer-
ning next week’s Junior Class Party,
the first such event in several years
here at Washington and Lee

The party will be held next Friday
night, February 6, at Zollman’s
Pavillion. Flipside, a six-piece band
that specializes in classic rock and
roll, will be the featured band. Open
only to Juniors and their dates, ad-
mission and beer will be absolutely
free of charge.

The money for the party came
from class dues collected during fall
matriculation.

“Most of the juniors paid five
dollars at the beginning of the year,”
Henry said. ‘“S’o be fair, we're going
to ask people at the door if they paid
and if they didn’t, we’ll put their
names on a list and collect the five
dollars later. These new dues will go
toward next year’s senior class par-

ty. That way, we can really doit up.”

Because it is a closed party, Henry
and Junior Class Vice Preisent Doug
Elliot were not requried to obtain a
banquet license. However, in order to
provide a communal source of alco-
hol, the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board stipulates that no money be
taken up to pay for the alcohol.

Henry said he and Elliot had a
$1,500 budget to work from. Flipside
cost them $800, rental for Zollman’s
Pavillion cost $200, and the rest went
toward invitations, beer, et. al. In a
nutshell, the whole show is paid for.

“T didn’t do this last year because |
was new and just getting used to the
job (of class president),’’ Henry said.
‘But people started coming up to me
and saying, ‘What do you do besides
sit on the Student Control Commit-
I wanted to do it this year
because this will be the first time the
whole class has gotten together since
our freshman year.”

Henry added, ‘“‘When the seniors
were getting together last year for
their senior dinners and so forth, a
bunch of them told me that I should
really try to get the class together for

tee ? :

something before it comes time to
graduate.”

Flipside hails from Richmond and
they feature former W&L student
Rob Crosby on guitar. This six-piece
outift also boasts two drummers and
a repetoire that includes cover ver-
sions of classics from the likes of the
Grateful Dead, the Rolling Stones
the Who, the Beatles and the Doors.
They will kick-off the music at 10 and
are set to play well into two o'clock in
the morning.

Henry he plans to have sober
drivers at the party who will provide
rides back to campus for those party;
goers perhaps too tipsy to get behind

he wheel. Non-alcoholic beverages
willalso be provided.

Henry asks that all party-goers
please have their college I.D.’s ready
at the door in order to avoid any con*
fusion.

He feels the experiment will be a
success.

“Pve tried to talk it up with the
fraternity members, the indepen«
dents — everybody — and most of the.
peple seem to be excited about it.
Like I said, this is your party.”

GRE-GMAT-LSAT-MCAT-DAT

HOUTA

| Waaitlaarlit
, you can excel ®

Your true abilities, even your grade point average,
HVACR ec ee cSOM LM OE CRON Os Oe 0g
unfamiliar with, or “freeze up" during your

HOME STUDY ENTRANCE EXAM PREPARATION . .. FROM G.A.P.S.

Build the confidence that comes from thorough, effective preparation. Test strategy and content orientation can make
the difference. Home study course consists of lecture tapes and written materials that cover every topic area you ll be
expected to know. Practice exams indicate areas of strength and those needing additional review, and all the practice
test questions are fully explained. While designed for rapid review, the sections permit you to move at your own pace,
MCCS R CUTE OF eR LL cmn OP RCUVTO ae AOU LMU A ane Oe eee Graduate Admissions Preparation
Service courses, selected for use by more than 100 major colleges and universities, will give you the knowledge and
mee SLC cme te om FEA tM Once ec ¢ RO Ae Utlct\em tale A tsa

MONEY BACK GUARANTEE. While no one can guarantee you a specific exam score, GAPS does guarantee complete
satisfaction with all course materials. \f you are not satisfied, return your course within 10 days for a full refund

GRE*GMAT-LSAT:MCAT:DAT

YES, I'm interested, please send me the complete

preparation course checked below
GRE ©$14900 MCAT $350.00 ‘a
GMAT 5 $1790 .
13 soc DAT $28
LSAT 1 $15

] Please send me more information

geceeeeecePeeecereeceeeeeeeeeeee
ne

222222 POLSALA2®TAAADLAVVA ZA OAAAVOV LAA AAVOAADOCLLALAAALO LAA: PLOZZZVIWVPAPVRVOD,

5
2
E
Send to G.A.P.S., 500 Third Ave. W., Box 34057, Seattle, WA 98124-1057 &
Call Toll-Free 1-800-426-5537 ext. 1241 (Alaska, Hawaii and E
Washington State Residents cal! (206) 281-1241) ‘
a
1 -
t
e
; =
=
2
; 5
Jents add / 9° Sales tax i
9 $7 rea 2 weeks} or $14 Rush Au Delivery — No MCATS or
See ee a " 2757 E

jn me eee ee eee ee ee ee ee oe os

Pel ISct ER sy Ce lLAMOIAU(O MUUCH VAN C0 201610
graduate training alone may
not be adequate to prepare
you. That's where GAPS
comes in

PLU:
ADMISSIONS
PREPARATION
bla aalG:

 

   
 

\

  
