 

+ Rock solid

 

 
     
    

 

 

ceases

 

VOLUME 8, NUMBER 2

Houston memorial

| urveiled on Sunday
Page 3

Che King

 

Water tight
Water polo
takes second

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 
 
   

sia WVIIVEABIIT LIDRARY
WASMINGTON & LEZ UNIVERSIT:
LEXINGTONy VA: 24430

 

‘Your weekend weather:

 

 

 

Mostly cloudy;

Chance of rain

 

“tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 18, 1986

 

 

 

 

Yeah! —

‘ . .
Seer pep mbt ene -

ne en tae OA hem ela tes

 

eee ee ee

Two Generals celebrate an interception at the season
yener against Emory and Henry. See page 6 for details.

Read disbarred|,

iji case

over F

f STEVEN POCKRASS
cial to the Phi

 

# The Virginia State Bar last week
asbarred former Rockbridge County
fCommonwealth’s Attorney Beverly
K *John’’ Read for misconduct in
ipe controversial 1984 Phi Gamma
Delta murder-arson trial.
Felronically, if Read had not appeal-
fed.a private reprimand he received
Nir his handling of the case, be
almost definitely would not have
heen disbarred. The News and Coun-
ff Press reported Wednesday that
fs ad would appeal the disbarment.
Also last week, a three-judge panel
suspended Read’s license indefinite-
yon sexual misconduct charges
Iwhile he undergoes psychiatric treat-
; ent. Read agreed to be hospitalized

ita a Richmond psychiatrist testi-

 
 
   
  
   
    
   
    
   
 

e two disciplinary actions were
related, although both were the
esult of investigations conducted by
tate bar.
A special committee of the local
_began investigating the ad-
stration of justice in the
Mockbridge area in March 1984,
Mortly after Read began a special
fand jury probe of area drug use
aid trafficking.
in November 1984, the committee
fled a report with the state bar ac-
cusing Read of making uninvited sex-
lai advances on female clients and
alleging a number of other improper
H8ctions.
The state bar also investigated
#eports that Read had withheld infor-
Mation from defense attorneys at the
441 of alleged murder-arsonist Scot
Aanner Mesner, then 19, of Roanoke
axinty, in the 1984 Phi Gamma Delta

ternity fire,

"During W&L’s spring vacation in
uA, W&L sophomore Thomas John
wellin, 19, of Weston, Pa., was killed
Ie "1 an early-morning fire swept
5 48h the Fiji house on Preston
mreet. An outstanding student and
wersity baseball player, Fellin was
resident of the fraternity and had
=~ asleep on the second floor when

bfire broke out.
Son of a Hollins College

reference librarian and history in-
structor, Mesner allegedly started
the blaze because he wanted revenge
after a former girlfriend from
Hollins began dating a Fiji at W&L.
County Circuit Judge George E.
Honts III threw out the case against
Mesner on the third day of the
December 1984 trail. Honts said that
investigators had violated Mesner’s
Mesner’s due process rights by with-
holding information from the

defense.
Under the law, a prosecutor is re-

quired to tell defense lawyers about
evidence that might show a defen-
dant is innocent. But two witnesses
who originally had identified Mesner
as one of the people watching the
blaze later changed their minds, and
Read did not tell this to Mesner’s at-

torneys.

A state bar district committee
gave Read a private reprimand — its
mildest disciplinary action for his
handling of the Mesner case, said
Michael L. Rigsby, counsel for the
state bar.

Read was given 10 days to appeal
the reprimand. If he hadn’t done so,
the case would not have gone any fur-
ther, said Rigsby, who added that he
had never before seen an appeal of a
reprimand lead to disbarment.

The serious consequences of a
reprimand are that it becomes more
difficult to get malpractice insurance
and that it could be used against an
attorney in a future disciplinary
case, Rigsby said.

Read appealed that reprimand to
the state bar’s disciplinary board, a
12-lawyer panel appointed by the
chief justice of the state Supreme
Court, Rigsby said. The board held a
hearing on July 24 and signed Read’s
disbarment order last Thursday, the
same day Read’s sexual misconduct
hearing resumed in the Rockbridge
County Courthouse. Rigsby said he
showed the order to Read’s attorney,
Joseph M. Spivey III of Richmond, on
Friday.

Read appealed that reprimand to
the state bar’s disciplinary board, a
12-lawyer panel appointed by the
judge of the state Supreme Court,
Rigsby said. The board held a hear-
ing on July 24 and signed Read’s

CD See Read, Page 4

¢'| ‘Extravagant’ number of

freshmen taken to hospital

 

By SEAN BUGG
Editor

 

A number of Washington and Lee
freshmen were taken to the Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital this past
weekend for alcohol poisoning and
other alcohol related incidents.

According to Associate Dean of
Students Leroy C. ‘“‘Buddy’”’ Atkins,
at least 3 freshmen were taken to the
hospital emergency room Friday
night, along with 3 upperclassmen.
One freshman was taken there Satur-
day night.

Head dormitory counselor Jeff
Mandak said that he knew of three
freshmen who were treated at the
hospital Friday night, although only
two were there for alcohol poisoning.
The third, which was probably
alcohol related, had punched through
a window and cut his hand.

According to Mandak one of the
freshmen experienced stomach
bleeding and other symptoms that re-
quired an overnight stay at the
hospital. The others were treated and
released to the Washington and Lee
infirmary.

Saturday night a student was in-
jured at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity house, and was taken by
ambulance to the hospital.

Henry Hawthorne, a freshman

SAE house after making the rounds
at a number of other fraternity par-
ties. Hawthorne said that he and his
friends drank some punch at one par-

ty and““‘didn’t realize how potent it
was.”,

Hawthorne said, “From what I’m
told I fell over the end of the rail” of
the SAE staircase.

Hawthorne said that he only
scratched up his face some, ‘‘pretty
much like a skinned knee.”’

According to SAE president Cooper
Crawford, Hawthorne was walking
up the stairs at the front of the house
when he turned to vomit and fell over
the railing to the ground.

“T didn’t actually see him fall off,”’
said Crawford, who cited reports
from members who were at the front
door of the house, keeping the porch
clear and checking people entering
the party.

“T got there as soon as I could,”
Crawford added.

According to Crawford, there was
a small crowd of people around
Hawthorne, including two Virginia
Military Institute students, who
already had the situation under con-
trol.

Crawford said that shortly there-
after, one of the SAE brothers called
an ambulance for Hawthorne.

One student witness, who wished
not to be identified, related a slightly
different version of the story. “They
thought it was, like, killing their par-
ty,” he said, and they wanted him
gone.

The student said that the SAE
“brothers were just standing around

- fron Wilmington, NC; arrived at the:-doing-nothing.”’. However, ‘the: VMI -

cadets that checked Hawthorne for
injuries ‘‘did a good job.”

O See Frosh, Page 4

 

 

as

my LN a

 

Workmen restore Fiji house.

1

J
es

Nes ee Paes

 

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

 

- Parties result in rule changes

Four houses are fined

for Rush violations

 

By SEAN BUGG

Editor

 

A number of fines and new Rush
regulations were given out at Tues-
day’s meeting of the Interfraternity
Council, according to IFC president
Chris Saxmon.

Four of Washington and Lee’s
seventeen fraternities received fines
of $300 for Rush violations. Two of
these four fraternities had a previous
violation.

One of these two fraternities was
given a week of social probation also,
while the other faces possible proba-
tion. This probation period would
begin Oct. 5 at 7:30 p.m. and end Oct.
12 at 7:30 p.m. :

Saxmon declined to release the
names of the fraternities involved in
order ‘‘to protect their names during
Rush.”

To combat the breaking: of Rush
rules, a new set of regulations was
set up governing the no contact time
that begins at 7:30 p.m. on
weeknights.

If a freshman is found at a fraterni-
ty house during no contact he can be
deprived of his Rush privileges for a
year, depending on the situation.
This means that the freshman could
not go through Rush and join a house
until next year.

A house that is caught violating
Rush rules cam be fined, and possibly
put on social probation.

Saxmon said that any action taken
by the IFC would depend on the situa-
tion. For example, if a freshman

Rebuilt F

walks into a house uninvited and is
found there just after his arrival, the
house may be found innocent of
breaking any rules.
situation.

Another new rule bans any alcohol
other than beer from being served at
parties during the Rush period.

Saxmon said that this new rule
made the Rush period more fair for
all the fraternities and safer for the
freshmen going through Rush.

“These actions had to be taken for
the safety of the freshmen,’’ Saxmon
said. He added that many of the
freshmen, none of whom are legal to
drink any alcoholic beverage, did not
drink hard liquor before college and
are not aware of the effects it may
have. =

Associate Dean of Students Leroy

 C, “Buddy” Atkins said in an earlier

interview that the IFC should be con-
ducting an investigation of the past
weekend’s events. Even if no Rush
violations are found, he said, some-
thing should be done. :

Commenting on what would hap-
pen if a fraternity is labeled responsi-
ble for the weekend incidents, Atkins
said, “It’s highly likely a punitive ac-
tion could be taken.”

Atkins also added that during the
past weekend, the chances of finding
a fraternity doing nothing wrong
were “not very likely.”

Atkins went on to say that the

-«~freshmen should find out as much as*~

possible about the responsible use of
alcohol, but that the fraternities are
providing the exact opposite, which
he calls “‘unfortunate.”’

house

iji

nears completion

 

By DEBORAH HATTES
Staff Reporter

 

After almost two years of
rebuilding, the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity house is nearly finished.

According to Phi Gamma Delta
President Jim Cockey, a local con-
tracter will completely finish
rebuilding the 12,000 square foot
house by Oct. 31. Located on 112 West
Preston Street, the house for Phi
Gamma Delta (known as Fiji) was
destroyed by fire in April, 1984.
Rebuilding began that summer,
Cockey said.

The second and third floors are
totally finished, but the lower floors
are not yet completed, Cockey said.
The basement will be finished by
Sept. 20, and the first floor, including
the kitchen, by Oct. 31.

For the first time in three years the
Fiji house will handle Rush like other
fraternities, Cockey said. While the
house was being rebuilt, Fiji Rush
activities and parties were held at 108
Henry Street, where six brothers liv-
ed.

The 22 brothers living in the house
are leading nearly normal lives,
Cockey said. ‘‘The only thing we
can’t do is eat here,” he said. A
telephone will be installed this week.

Cockey termed the new Fiji house
“state of the art’’ since it was built
specifically as a fraternity house,
rather than being a converted family

home. The house has a staircase ris-
ing from the basement to the second
floor, a large dining room, and pay
laundry facilities and a guest
bathroom.

Another special feature of the
house is its basement party room,
with two-foot thick walls, a bar, and
special drains to help in cleaning the
floor. Fiji House Adviser Richard B.
Sessoms said the thick walls ‘really
did help minimize the noise”’ at a par-
ty last Friday night.

The Phi Gamma Delta House Cor-
poration, a 10-person limited partner-
ship attempted to rebuild the house
with a new interior while leaving the
exterior as similar to the original as.
possible. He described the original
house built in 1891 as ‘‘an important
neighborhood landmark which really
anchors one of Lexington’s 19th cen-
tury neighborhoods.”

Cockey said the reconstruction was
financed by $400,000 of insurance
money and $275,000 from the Phi
Gamma Delta House Corporation.

To protect its investment in the
new Fiji house, Sessoms said, the
house corporation has hired Carrole
Vogat as a house mother. Now living
in Roanoke, she will move into a cot-
tage in a wing of the house after con-
struction is finished.

Vogat will be the first fraternity
house mother at W&L since the late
1970’s, according to Dean of Students
Lewis G. John. They were required
until the University Council voted to
make them optional in March, 1972.

Students glad to see Calyx on time

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

While reactions to the content of
this year’s Calyx, the Washington
and Lee yearbook, are mixed, at
least one thought was unamimous
among the student body: at least it’s
on time.

This year's volume, edited by
seniors Charles Nusbaum and Dennis
Francis, arrived from the printers
Sept. 8, in time for distribution to up-
perclassmen during matriculation.

The 1985 Calyx was delayed more

than four months, and was not passed
out until this February.

This year’s copy has sections on all
the activities of the school year, from
orientation week to graduation.

Nusbaum, who along with Francis,
stayed in Lexington until after
graduation and corrected proofs of
the book throughout the summer,
says it is possible to produce a com-
plete yearbook in a short time.

“It can work as a year-round book,
if a sophomore or junior does it, and
is willing to put a little time over the
summer into it,” he said.

Currently, no editor for this year’s

book has been selected, but Nusbaum
says that’s not a problem. ‘‘The first
deadline isn’t until April, so as long
as someone keeps on top of it, it’s not
crucial yet.”’

“We've gotten a lot of compliments
on the book. People have liked the
color photos and the picture on the
front cover,” he said. ‘‘Mostly, peo-
ple liked the fact that it was out on
time.”

Although reactions to the book
were generally good, students found
things wrong with it. John Metz, a
junior, said he thought the yearbook

was too plain. ‘‘Last year’s had a lot
of interesting sections,” he said.
“This year’s was too straight-
forward. I was also bugged that there
wasn’t an index.”

Jodi Ringland, a senior, also said
the book needed something more. ‘“‘It
looks good on the outside, but it lacks
something inside. It needed more
social events, more candid shots.”

Cathy McCubbin, a sophomore,
thought, however, that the book had
turned out well. “I liked this year’s
book better than last year’s,”’ she
said.

pe

 

 

 

 

ei

 

'
;

 

 
 

 

 

OPINION
Covering

This weekend, at least four freshmen were sent to the
hospital to have their stomachs pumped. They were diagnos-
ed as having ‘‘alcohol poisoning.”’

On Saturday night there was a case of a student, a
freshman, who had had too much to drink. The freshman fell
down the steps in front of a fraternity house, and was lying
there unconscious with blood oozing from his ear. None of the
party goers interrupted their reveries to get medical aid for
the student. Many said he was just drunk and complained
how the whole incident was ‘“‘bumming out’’ their party.
Finally, two VMI cadets, who were putting themselves at
risk to even be on fraternity property, gave the student
medical aid. (The cadets were later thrown off the property
without so much as a thank you. )

The incidents Saturday night and the new freshman dor-
mitory regulations on drugs and alcohol raise a question. At
what point do the fraternities or the University become
responsible for or have the right to tell students when, where,
or how much they can drink?

To answer this question, one must look at several factors.
The most obvious reason for the University’s new dormitory
regulations on alcohol and drugs is that most of the students
who live in the freshmen dormitories are too young by
Virginia State Law to drink alcohol, and for them to do so is
illegal. It would seem that an institution of higher learning
would want to teach its students to be law abiding, productive
citizens. Therefore the University should set a good example
and support the laws of the state. However, we don’t think the
University’s reasons are that pious.

What would have happened at that party if the cadets had
not been there? If the student had had a concussion and died
because no one got him medical help? You can be sure that
everyone including the Board of Trustees, the IFC, the
fraternity, and everyone at the party would have been sued.
(If an accident at a party bums you out, we wonder what ef-
fect being sued for everything you own would have on you.)

It’s commonly referred to as ‘‘covering yourself.’’ The new
dormitory regulations on alcohol and drugs seem to be a way
for the University to lessen the likelihood that it could be suc-
cessfully sued. If a student is breaking the rules by drinking
in the dorms, and later is injured as a result of his
drunkeness, it is improbable he could sue the University.

The four people who were sent to the hospital were
freshmen. The incidents that occurred during the weekend
seem to be a freshman phenomena. There are generally a
few cases of people testing their limits and inadvertantly ex-
ceeding those limits each year. Yet there have been lawsuits
recently in which an owner of a bar and the bartender were
sued by a customer who was served while he was obviously
intoxicated and was later injured as a result of his intoxica-
tion. It seems that fraternities and members of fraternities
could be named in similar suit as a result of this weekend’s
incidents. It would be in the fraternities’ best interests to find
a way to lessen their chances of being sued.

Perhaps the members of a fraternity could refuse to give
obviously drunk people another drink. To allow someone who
is on the verge of passing out even though it is still relatively
early in the evening to continue to drink is ridiculous. It may
be a drag to have to refuse someone another drink, but cover-
ing yourself now is better than being named in a lawsuit
later.

We are not advocating dry fraternity parties, nor are we
trying to be “‘holier than thou’’ with those who drink frequent-
ly to excess. It may be cliche, but the whole point is to drink
responsibly. No one should have to end a party night in a
hospital room.

Covering it all

The Ring-tum Phi is the student newspaper of Washington
and Lee. It is run completely by students. We have no faculty
advisor. The Ring-tum Phi (the name, by the way, is from a
nonsense football cheer that became extinct long ago) brings
you the latest campus and local news, sports, music and
movie reviews, and tries to discuss issues that are of interest
to W&L’s students.

We are not the opinion of the whole student body. When an
editorial appears in the Phi unsigned, it is the opinion of the
editorial board, namely, Jason Lisi, Sean Bugg, and Marie
Dunne. If the editorial is signed (-MED appears at the bottom
of the column), it is the opinion of editorial page editor, Marie
Dunne.

Part of the purpose of an editorial page is to get people
thinking about and responding to the issues. The best way to
make your response known is to write a letter to the editors.
Letters let us know what our readers are thinking and are
concerned about and what we can do to improve the Phi. So
the next time you start to mutter about how off base (or on
target) the editorial is, write in and tell us what you think and
why.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF

REP DOE nar er RAT Ur nn Tom nue ney Tar aren Fe" Jason Lisi
ii ica Ce GAG ba Vek OU PS TONER Ue Vas 0b eae ae een en eee esa bene Sean Bugg
Managing Editor, Entertainment Editor..................600eeceeee Marshall Boswell
I a is 5a Bi Ca hic oink Whe h ch Lc denes ee cans Obs eG charade David Emrich
IRS chk ak 0059 CheN COE RC ricaaiibcee CoV eibs + cad caee Perry Hayes
RU OWE CIE Cc cui ceubeeecccieieedecticebvepelinaieias Mathew Horridge
RETA UTS ERIE 00s osc con etbeteeesecccectececesetseebeetosevens Mike Shady
EDITORIAL PAGE

PN OT TCT RT COTE Teer re, Cae he a rere Marie Dunne
CE cep W kaki R ace CONE CEM RE Ce Et Nie Cy tes Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF

OE TERED PUNT PEE N ire creer Teer yen Ten eT eT Greg Turley
I NN ici oc ces he ere Ub eis trey eusciael Robert Jones
CHORIATOR MAMIIE i cbc ccs Seeder vcore becertnecedusierdaaerrs Mathew Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee, The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 18, 1986

“AND SOMEDAY... | SHAKL TURN INTe a Real Live poy //”

 

 

 

Can the Hill and frats get along?

MY VIEW
By Mark Farley

Arather dismal situation confronts
the new Dean of Fraternities, Mr.
Leroy C. “‘Buddy’’ Atkins, and the
Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) as
they assume their duties this fall.
The fraternities at Washington and
Lee are experiencing hard times:
some, with the declining number of
men enrolled, are failing to recruit
enough new members; many are
burdened with financial problems;
the newly passed Alcohol Beverage
Control laws bring with them a
plethora of regulations and heart-
aches; and last Spring when the IFC
was asked to adopt a strict anti-drug
policy, it was implied that the frater-
nities were at the center of W&L’s
drug woes.

Unfortunately, Dean Atkins is not a
magician; he cannot make these pro-
blems just disappear. The difficult

 

times will continue. More likely than
not some fraternities may be forced
to close in the coming years.

There is one task to which the new
dean and the IFC should devote
themselves: alleviate the heighten-
ing sense of antagonism developing
between the fraternities and the Hill.
Increasingly, fraternity members
perceive an anti-fraternity sentiment
echoing down the Colonnade. This
bitterness, stemming primarily from
the weekday and other social restric-
tions imposed in the past four years,
does nothing to help the fraternity
system.

Both the Hill and the fraternities
are stuck with each other. Dean
Atkins should help them realize this.
The students have to accept that
their houses are affiliated with the
University and, as a result, must
agree to a certain degree of control.
Furthermore, no matter how disrup-
tive the faculty may view the frater-
nities’ social reveries and other hi-
jinks, it must accept the view stated

by the Board of Trustees in its Policy
Statement on Fraternities: ‘Social
fraternities at Washington and Lee
are a valuable and integral part of
both the University and Lexington
communities.’’ One reason for this is
that without the national fraternities
on campus the social lives of many
students would be abysmal, most
certainly diminishing the Universi-
ty’s attractiveness to prospective
students.

Also, the administration should
concede, as most parents do, that
young men and women are capable
of making decisions on their own - in-
deed should be encouraged to do so.
The IFC must be allowed to function
and act without undo pressure from
the Hill. Dean Atkins should help
both sides to understand and even-
tually compromise on the important
issues presently facing them, such as
the concepts of deferred Rush and an
eventual IFC drug policy. In addi-
tion, he should function as the frater-
nities’ advocate on the Hill, stressing

the importance of maintaining the
fraternity system’s autonomy.

The IFC must then be prepared to
deal quickly and effectively with the |

issues at hand. Slowness on the part
of the IFC will only serve to ag-
gravate already sensitive issues.
This would also risk having key deci-
sions made by the Hill instead of by
the council. Ignoring a glaring pro-
blem is not an effective resolution.

Lastly, the IFC and the fraternity
members themselves must be willing
to accept and sometimes carry out
recommendations and advice offered
by Dean Atkins and his colleagues.
Not to do so would be most foolish
considering their collective ex-
perience as well as their knowledge
of the current situation.

Given the critical role of the Greek
system at W&L, as well as the impor-
tance this institution places on stu-
dent government and independence,
it should be the hope of the entire
Washington and Lee community that
Dean Atkins and the IFC succeed.

Student recounts unusual friendship

 

MY VIEW
By Paul J. Smith

 

I dedicate this article to Igor,
Arkadi and George. These three men
were studying Chinese language in
China at the same time I was. What
made our relationship special was
that it defied political restrictions
and cultural boundaries. It was of-
ficially forbidden.

My three friends were from
Russia, Igor was from a city in cen-
tral Siberia, Arkadi from Moscow
and George from Leningrad.

I met them at Fu Dan University in
Shanghai where they were studying.
Igor and Arkadi were in their mid-
thirties, had wives and children and
were dedicated to the system from
which they were begotten. George
was in his mid-twenties, and clearly
headed for a career in the Soviet
diplomatic service.

Scene: Shanghai train station, ear-
ly February. I take bus No. 61 to Fu
Dan University. Igor is surprised to
see that I have taken up his offer to
stay with them at Fu Dan. That night
he buys a bottle of Chinese rum
(which is horrible). I take out my bot-
tle of Johnny Walker which I bought

in Hong Kong. They are curious
about Hong Kong as they are restrict-
ed by their government from visiting
there. I try to describe it as best I can
with my Chinese (only George could
speak English).

Scene: The foreign student cafeter-
ia at Fu Dan. They take me to the
cafeteria and introduce me to their
friends. I shake everyone’s hand and
greet them in Chinese. A few of them
can speak some English. We all eat
together. In the other part of the
cafeteria, I spot students from all
parts of the world — Europe, Africa,
the Middle East — all chatting
among themselves. But the Russians
eat together as a separate group, as
though a large family impenetrable
from the outside.

Scene: A dormitory sitting room.
The Russians bring vodka, the
Chinese rum and peanuts. I bring my
JW and my Chinese dictionary. After
all, it is five Russians and only one
American. I’ll have to hold my own.

They first hit me with Reagan. Do
people in America really like that
man? I tell them they do. He makes
them feel proud. I ask them what
they think about the concept of
democracy. They say they like it, and
quickly produce a book which they
claim is compiled of criticisms of the
communist party, and at the same

time is produced by the communist
party! If I could only read Russian!
They tell me about life in the Soviet
Union, Tranquil. Peaceful. If you
don’t want to go anywhere, you will
feel comfortable there, they tell me.
For the ambitious, it can be another
story. We then drink more vodka.
Then I hit them with the Korean
Air Line mishap (I thought I would
cut them off with this question, but
somehow they seemed to be prepared
for this one). How can your country
shoot down a passenger plane over
international waters? It was ‘‘a spy
plane!”’ they reply emphatically.
“The CIA was involved!’’ they say.
Then they talk to themselves in Rus-
sian. I pour some of the Johnny
Walker. They drink it. Then one looks
at me and says in Chinese, ‘‘We
might have screwed up on that one.”’
And then I laugh at the absurdity of
their answer, then they laugh. I know
we should not laugh. But then I
realize that we are laughing only at
the absurdity of who we are, and
where we are from. We are supposed
to be enemies, so how can it be that
we can sit here and talk like old
friends who have not seen each other
in ages? How can it be that our
governments have ICBMs pointed at
each other’s home cities? They tell
me the Soviets are peace-loving peo-

LETTERS

ple. I tell them the Americans are as
well, So why do we live in the precar-
ious world that we do?

And then I realize the truth might
lie in the fact that exchanges such as
this one, the one I was experiencing
with Igor, Arkadi, and George, are so
rare. How often can Americans (who
are not diplomats, reporters, etc...)
meet with their Soviet counterparts?
Why is it that the only exchange be-
tween the two countries seems to oc-
cur only with the big media cover-
age, such as the Geneva Summit and
the Turner Olympics, which tries to
commercialize relations between the
two most powerful nations on this
planet? 1 have always thought that
the best diplomats are not the pro-
fessional diplomats, but the plain,
everyday ones like you and me.
Hopefully, for the sake of world
peace, this sort of exchange will
become more and more possible in
the future. But it seems that under
the present political climate, one
marked with increasing hostility and
mistrust, this is becoming more and
more improbable...which only makes
me cherish the memories of my Rus-
sian friends. The friendship between
us may not bring about world peace,
but at least it could be a start...a
flicker of hope in the growing
darkness of global tension.

Alcohol Awareness Comm. seeks counselors

(eee

 

 

To the editors:

The Alcohol and Health Awareness Commit-
tee, which is beginning its second year, is respon-
sible for the overall coordination of alchol, drugs
and other health-related awareness programs at
W&L. Its purpose is to establish goals and objec-
tives geared toward the promotion of health and
total wellness.

An off-shoot of this committee is a volunteer
peer counseling program, which will be initiated
this fall. The goal of a peer counselor is to have
trained students, knowledgeable in the areas of
alcohol and drug abuse, who can advise W&L
students in this regard. With improved commu-
nication skills and the ability to recognize a de-
veloping drug or alcohol problem, the peer coun-
selor can either work directly with students or if
desirable make an appropriate referral to other
counseling resources. Peer counselors may also
talk with students having other kinds of personal
issues as well, such as difficulties in a personal
relationship or academic problems.

The training program will begin in early Octo-
ber. There will be a half-day retreat followed by
weekly one hour sessions throughout the semes-
ter. One or two brief evening training sessions
may also be required in the beginning of the
training.

The selection committee is seeking volunteers
who are interested in helping others. Students
are asked to complete a questionnaire to include

a letter of interest. The counselors will be chosen
on the basis of a review of the questionnaire and
successful completion of the training process.
Questionnaires are available in room 104 of the
University Center. Any questions may be direct-
ed to Mrs. Calkins or Dr. Worth at EXT. 8590.
Carol Calkins

Mandak thanks APO

To the editors:

On behalf of the dormitory counselor staff, I
would like to thank Steve Pockrass and the other
members of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity
for their help during freshmen orientation week.
In addition to helping the freshmen move in, they
were also called upon to direct the “R&R”
events on Wednesday and they took over opera-
tion of the refrigerator rental system. APO truly
performed up to expectations this past week. We
appreciate their assistance and look forward to
working with them again in the future.

Jeff Mandak ’87
Head Dormitory Counselor

GHQ rules’ irks reader

To the editors:

Mr. Gerald Darrell hurled another thunderbolt
from the Cockpit/GHQ. This one really hurts, but

misses the target completely. Citing ‘problems
with people passing pitchers around”’ to minors,
Mr. Darrell will strike a blow for lawfulness
every Wednesday by banning pitchers of beer.
Only 14-0z. cups will be sold.

Now there’s logic for you, boys and girls. Next,
Mr. D. will explain just how good bathtub gin
really is.

Yes, there are underage drinkers in the
Pit/GHQ on any night of the week. Pitchers
facilitate - but do not cause - the problem. Go for
the bull’s eye, Mr. D.! Enforce Virginia's drink-
ing laws by clearly marking the underage with a
bracelet, not by changing our beer’s size. The
same people who would survey for illicit sipping
from little cups could easier spot marked of-
fenders sidling up to a ‘‘big boy”’ for a quick gulp.
Then, Mr. D., kick the youngsters out who can’t
party by the rules. Your older patrons won't take
offense.

Wednesday nights at the Pit/GHQ (yes, its a
silly name for a pub, but I’m stubborn) are
already hot, costly, and crowded. Making us
stand in line every time we want a drink won't
help. There’s only so much a mortal can take.

Jonathan Scott Miles
Class of '87
Beer Drinker

 

 

t
V EWS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 18, 1986

 

Wilson speaks at

Houston

=
By JASON LISI
Editor

*

 

Biore than 400 spectators heard
speeches. listened to a military band
and watched the unveiling of a
runite and bronze momument
narking the birthplace of a man call-
d ‘The George Washington of Tex-
is” Sam Houston.

fhe ceremony took place at the
sam Houston Wayside at Timber
2idge, a small settlement five miles
1oFth of Lexington.

The 90-minute ceremony on Sun-
jay included speeches by Wash-
ngton and Lee President John
ViJlson and Virginia Military In-
Uitute Superintendent Gen. Sam
Vdlker. Other speeches were given
3¥Charles Wilson of the 2nd Congres-
sional District of Texas and Diana
Hobby. the wife of Texas Lieutenant
yOvernor William Hobby. Jr.. as well
iS, a written greeting from Texas
yovernor Mark White Jr.

9

marker

“Sam Houston probably was the
most remarkable politician in the na-
tion,” said Texas State Treasurer
Ann Richards, a speaker at the
ceremony. Houston served as the
president of the Republic of Texas,
U.S. Senator and governor of Texas
and Congressman and Governor of
Tennessee.

The monument is a 38,000 pound
piece of pink Texas granite shipped
by railroad from a quarry in Marble
Falls, Texas. A bronze plaque bear-
ing a 200-word history of Sam
Houston and his achievements is at-
tached to the front of the stone. A
cast-iron fence around the monument
was donated by the Sam Houston
Rurtarian Club, a Virginia group.

The monument replaces one
dedicated in 1927 and vandalized in
1979. :

A 60-piece band from VMI played
the state songs from Virginia, Ten-
nesse and Texas in Sunday's near-
perfect weather. Flag-bearing honor
guards form VMI and Texas A&M
University also stood at the
ceremony.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. ac
“ “a 4
—- oS.
‘ait. 4) =e
_ = : : se
= nares il
7%
. — és
‘ “Eta
*
3
SS
Sis re,
SE RAP Ph
Sf
HER <
{ m ; {tt ttt = ~
rit
he . :

 

More than $9,000 was raised for the
new monument, by Don Kennard, a
former state senator, Texas politi-
cians, lawyers and businessmen.
“We have a very deep feeling about
Sam Houston and what he did in Tex-
as, and he’s always been a great hero
to many of us,”’ he said. Kennard said

he started the fund drive a year anda
half ago when he heard about the
damage to the old monument.
Kennard said Houston’s plea for
statehood for Texas and against
southern states seceding from the
Union showed his vision and courage.
“He always seemed to be right and

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi
going against the tide,’’ he said. ‘“‘He
just fought overwhelming odds at
almost every turn and usually won.”’

The monument was unveiled by the
great-grandaughter of Sam Houston,
Charlotte Williams Darby of
Houston, who dedicated the original
monument in 1927.

New faculty at W&L represents broad range

,» Washington and Lee has appointed
18 new undergraduate teachers for
this year.

‘There are four new members of the
School of Commerce. Economics and
Politics and 14 in the College of Arts
and Sciences.

"The new faculty members bring a
diversity of education and profes-
sjonal experiences with them to
Wel.

Biewener ‘ economics) holds a B.A.
degree from Rutgers University. and
expects to complete his Ph.D degree
at the University of Massachusetts in
Jan. of 1987. She has taught at the
University of Massachusetts.

‘Connelly (politics) has a. B.A.
degree in political science from

\ssumption College, an M.A. degree
from Boston College. and a Ph.D.
degree in American Government
irom the University of Virginia. He
iias recently been a Congressional
Fellow in Washington. D.C. and has
taught at Clemson University.

Catholic University, and U.Va.
Peppers received his B.A. degree
from Grinnell College and his Ph.D.
degree from Vanderbilt University.
He comes to Washington and Lee
from Creighton University where he
was chairman of the department of
economics and finance since 1981.
Smitka (economics) earned his
A.B. degree in East Asian Studies at
Harvard University and expects to
complete his Ph.D. degree in
Economics at Yale University this
year. He is fluent in Japanese and
worked for three years with the Bank
of Tokyo in New York. In addition to
teaching economics, he will also
teach courses in the East Asian
Studies program. degree from the
University of Kentucky and is com-
pleting the course work for his M.A.
in Spanish from U.K. in 1987. He has
taught in Colombia and in Kentucky
and also served as_ instruc-
torranslator for the Foreign
Language Services in Kentucky.

Bishku (history) received his B.A.
from the University of Florida, and
his Ph.D. from New York University.
He comes to W&L from Edison Com-
munity College in Fort Myers, Fla.,
where he has taught since 1981.

Campbell (music) received her
B.A. in music education from Lynch-
burg College and her M.A. in music
from the University of Maryland. She
has been a private voice instructor
and ahs performed with the Ash
Lawn Opera Company in Charlot-
tesville.

Desjardins (chemistry) received a
B.A. in chemistry and philosophy
from Clark University and a Ph.D. in
Chemistry from Brown University.
He has just completed a_ post-
doctoral fellowship at the University
of Texas at Austin.

Dempsey (Bert) (mathematics)
received his A.B. from Davidson Col-
lege and his M.S. in mathematics
from the University of Virginia. He
has taught at U.Va. and at the Blue

Reeves center displays porcelain

=

Reeves Center
<NERETT E. HAMILTON, JR.

staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee is known for
ts picturesque Colonnade, excellent
.cademic reputation and unwaver-
ng dedication to George Washington
ind Robert E. Lee. But many people
\o not know that it also has one of the
tiost comprehensive collections of
‘hinese export and 18th century Eur-
ypean porcelain on any college cam-
dus.

The Reeves Center, tucked away
tween Tucker Hall and the Gilliam
jouse, is a restored faculty
.ome that now serves as a research
rfuseum. On any given day you can
ind people touring the center or
tudents researching the histories
onnected with the porcelain.

(“To many students, this place
‘oks like a storage house for bowls
yd plates,” said Baxter Sharp, a

 

junior who has worked in the center
for three years. ‘‘Actually, we have
several rare and historical pieces.”’

Sharp pointed out the center’s priz-
ed possession, a Hong bow] — nearly
180-years-old — showing interna-
tional trade from the port of Canton,
China on its sides.

W&L received the collection from
Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves, of
Providence, R.I. Mr. Reeves was a
1927 graduate of the Law School. The
couple acquired so many pieces they
had to find another home.

Mrs. Reeves was also a painter,
but her work went undiscovered until
1968, when workers brought along
dust-covered frames with the
porcelain collection. Once the dust
was removed, they found paintings of
exceptional quality. Among the
works were scenes from Paris, her
porcelain collection and several pic-
tures of her Aunt Lizzie.

Today, over 2,000 pieces of porce-
lain, furniture and paintings fill five
major exhibit rooms, reflecting

several themes and periods in
history.

One room has pieces that date to
the infancy of this country. Various
plates and cups show the signing of
the Declaration of Independence with
the faces of the founding fathers hav-
ing a distinctive Chinese look. Other
pieces show religious and mythologi-
cal events and personalities.

Throughout the year, several
students work on research projects
and give tours to visitors. David
McDowell, a sophomore from Green-
ville, Miss., is researching the dif-
ferent coats-of-arms painted on the
porcelain.

James Whitehead, secretary to the
board of trustees, was involved with
the development of the gift and decid-
ed to continue his association with
the collection by running the Reeves
Center. Whitehead, who knew very
little about porcelain when he began
with the center, is now an expert on
the art form and has given lectures
across the country using samples
from the center.

Ridge School.

Dempsey (Molly) (mathematics)
received her B.A. from Bowdoin Col-
lege and her M.S. in mathematics
from U.Va. She has also taught at
U.Va. and at the Pingree School.

Lillie (drama) received both B.A.
and M.A. degrees from Morehead
State University and comes to W&L
from Muskingum College where he

was instructor, designer, and
technical director for the department
of speech and theatre.

Lyle (English) received her B.A.
from Hollins College and her M.A.
from Johns Hopkins University. The
author of five novels, Lyle was
formerly head of the English depart-
ment at Southern Seminary Jr. Col-
lege and has taught there since 1960.

Miller (English) received both her
B.A. and M.A. degrees from the Col-
lege of William and Mary and her
Ph.D. degree from U.Va. She was a
teaching assistant at U.Va. and most
recently visiting assistant professor

 

a = 7? =
——_ e . 7 wy <> .
~ dor’ ~
Fd Re
\e oe
OO: FO: a
< * 4

ty S = ~
* =)
oe =

at Wake Forest University.

Spike (philosophy) received his
B.A. from Beloit College, his M.A.
from the University of Chicago, and
another M.A. and Ph.D. degrees
from the Johns Hopkins University.

He has previously taught at Loyola
College, Towson State University,
and Johns Hopkins University.

Stickley (physical education)
returns to Washington and Lee where
he had served as assistant coach in
football and baseball from 1982-84.
Most recently, he was head football
coach at Lexington High School.

Van Ness hysics and engineering)
holds a B.S. degree in p sics from
Bucknell University and a Ph.D. in
materials science engineering from
Rutgers University.

Wingard (military science), a cap-
tain in the Adjutant General’s Corps,
USAR, comes to W&L with over 14
years of military service.

Bo a

4p {Police find

handgun in
automobile

By MATHEW HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

 

Junior David Montgomery, of Po-
quoson, is suspected of discharging a
handgun and setting off several
firecrackers after a Sept. 11 incident
at the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity
house, police said Tuesday.

A police report states that two of-
ficers responded to a complaint that
firecrackers were being discharged
at 110 W. Preston St., the location of
the fraternity.

After the officers received permis-
sion to search the suspect’s auto-
mobile, they found a 22-caliber
revolver.

The police report said Montgomery
may be charged after police discuss
the case with the commonwealth’s
attorney.

In other police news:

eMary Baldwin College freshman
Jennifer Welburn reported that a duf-
fle bag she had placed in a room at
the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity house
was stolen Sept. 13.

The duffle bag contained $150 in
cash, a gold locket valued at $450 and
$250 worth of clothing.

«Junior Sean Hickey reported that
$680 worth of his stereo equipment
was taken from the Kappa Sigma
fraternity house on Washington
Street.

A receiver, tape deck and a pair of
speakers were removed from the
house sometime over the summer.
The police have no suspects or
witnesses in the case.

*A pair of Infinity 1500 speakers
was taken from the room of junior
Garfield Prebor at 11 N. Jefferson St.

Prebor reported that someone re-
moved the combination lock from his
door sometime over the summer and
stole the speakers, valued at $500.

eLambda Chi Alpha fraternity
president John Cummings reported
that $1,000 pair of Bose 901 speakers
was removed from the fraternity
house this summer. The police have
no suspects or witnesses in the case.

 

 

 

 

NEWS BRIEFS

 

nr te
mb dig
|
es
x = /4
4. Mes
= OE ae 3c

 

 

 

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

EC sets dates for budget requests and election petitions

The Executive Committee released the dates budget
requests and election petitions are due at its first
meeting Monday night.

Budget requests are due at next Monday night’s
meeting, EC Vice President Brandt Surgener said.

The elections for freshman class officers will be held
Oct. 20 and petitions are due Oct. 13, according to EC
President Shayam Menon.

Menon said petitions for the first-year law officers’
election on Oct. 29 are due Sept. 22.

The orientations for first-year law students and
freshmen ‘‘went well,’’ Menon said.

John to work with students

Dean of Students Lewis G. John will serve as pre-law
advisor this year

Previously held by Michael A. Cappeto, this position
entails advising undergraduates who are considering a
career in the legal profession.

John will be working with representatives from the
Law School, focusing his attention of seniors who are
taking the LSAT in order to apply to law schools this
year

Several important activities have already been plan-
ned for the upcoming months, including a thirty-two
hour LSAT preparatory course sponsored by the Na-
tional Center for Educational Testing. The LSAT will
given on Sept. 27

W&L will host a Law School Day Nov. 11 at which ad-
missions representatives from approximately thirty
law schools will be present.

—Valerie Pierson

Davis papers at Law library

A collection of memorabilia associated with the
career of lawyer and advocate John W. Davis went on
display in June in the Washington and Lee University
Law Library.

The collection was presented to the university this
spring by Davis’ daughter, Mrs. Julia Davis Adams,
and includes a variety of prints, presidential proclama-
tions, drawings, photographs, plaques and books col-
lected by Davis during his lifetime.

Davis was born in West Virginia in 1873 and received
his B.A. and B.L. degrees from Washington and Lee in
1892 and 1895. He served as a Congressman from West
Virginia and as Solicitor General under Woodrow Wil-
son’s presidency. In 1922 he turned down an appoint-
ment to the Supreme Court and in 1924 ran unsuccess-
fully for President against Calvin Coolidge.

During his career Davis argued 141 cases before the
Supreme Court, including the steel seizure cases and
Brown vs. Board of Education.

The W&L Law Library also has in its collection,
Davis’ papers, including the briefs of the cases which he

argued. Davis Dormitory, which opened in 1959 and is
_ one of the three major buildings housing W&L
freshmen, was named after Davis.

Herrick evaluates Guatemala

Bruce Herrick, head of the Department of Economics
at Washington and Lee, recently returned from Guate-
emala where he spent three weeks evaluating economic
and financial aspects of Guatemalan health care.

Herrick was invited to perform the evaluation by the
U.S. Agency for International Development. While in
Guatemala he served as health economist on a five-
member team.

The team sought to gather data and assess the cur-
rent condition of Guatemalan health care.

While Herrick’s research was conducted largely in
Guatemala City, he also toured rural health posts and
clinics, interviewing paramedical personnel and mid-
wives. Many of the country’s health problems, Herrick
said, are associated with the lack of roads in the moun-
tains and jungles, low levels of literacy, and the
absence of safe water and sanitary facilities.

Herrick received his A.B. degree from Carleton Col-
lege in Minnesota. He received his Ph.D. in economics
from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1964,

the same year he joined the faculty of the University of
California at Los Angeles.

Herrick came to W&L in 1980. He is the co-author of
several books and has contributed numerous articles
and chapters in professional journals and anthologies.

Political commentator to speak

_Dr. Norman J. Ornstein, resident scholar at the
American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy
Research, will be visiting lecturer at Washington and
Lee University September 25-26.

Sponsored by the Phi Beta Kappa ‘Visiting Scholar
Program, Ornstein’s visit is designed to enable
undergraduates and faculty members to meet formally
and informally with noted scholars in diverse disci
plines for two days on the campus.

Ornstein’s visit will be highlighted by a public lecture
entitled ‘‘Can the Constitution Survive the Third Cen-
tury?’ at 8 p.m. Thursday, September 25, in the Moot
Courtroom of Lewis Hall, the W&L law school.

Prior to his tenure at the American Enterprise In-
stitute for Public Policy Research, Ornstein was pro-
fessor of politics at the Catholic University of America,
where he began teaching in 1972. He is a regular con-
tributor to ‘‘The MacNeil/Lehrer New Hour,” series
editor of “‘Congress: We the People,” a 26-part public
television program, and election consultant to CBS
News.

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, September 18, 1986

 

Read

Continued from Page |

disbarment order last Thursday, the
same day Read’s sexual misconduct
hearing resumed in the Rockbridge
County Courthouse. Rigsby said he
showed the order to Read’s attorney,
Joseph M. Spivey III of Richmond, on
Friday.

On the sexual misconduct charges,
Read had his choice between a pri-
vate board hearing and a public hear-
ing before a three-judge panel. He
chose the public hearing, which
began on July 9 and 10.

A Republican with strong family
ties to Rockbridge County, Read tem-
porarily stepped down as the area's
chief prosecutor July 11. He quit July
18, after serving as commonwealth’s
attorney for more than 10 years.

At the first day of the hearing on
July 9, seven women who had sought
Read’s advice as a private attorney
said that he had fondled them, strok-
ed himself, rubbed his stocking feet
on their legs or made lewd comments
to them. One said Read had exposed
himself in his office and had tried to
force her to have oral sex with him.
All of the alleged acts were said to
have occurred between 1977 and 1984.

An eighth woman, who had worked
with Read in the local court system,
testified that during phone conversa-
tions about court cases, Read would
describe in crude terms the sexual
acts he wanted to perform on her.

The defense did not present its case
on the second day of the July hearing.

 

Instead, Spivey asked for a continu- part of his pancreas, and parts of his _ believes he did not have anything to be involved seems to be ex- ing things they do not know about, ; z
ance of up to six months to prepare _ intestines, hip bones and stomach. drink at the SAE party, and in fact travagant.”’ on are not prepared for. gg onl oe
‘‘mitigating evidence.”’ Read would not comment to the never madeit to the door. Huntley plans to talk to the Mandak said, ‘The problem is the Room 104 of the University Center
Thursday’s resumption of the hear- press following the hearing. Spivey fault but mine,” said Hawthorne, ad- freshmen involved sometime this  frats push getting drunk too much.” or call ext. 8590. The first meeting
ing was brief yet emotional. Once a did release a prepared statement ding that he did not want tosingle out week. When asked what the fresh- He added, ‘The purpose of Rush is to is to be announced shortly!
dominant figure in that courtroom, from Read: ‘This obviously has been ding that he did not want tosingle out ~men would be questioned about meet people and they just get :
Read did not walk with his usual a difficult time for me and my fami- _ one or more fraternities as responsi- Huntley said that he has “no prear- everybody drunk.” aaa
quick and confident gait. His feet ly. However, I am determined to get _ ble. ranged game plan.” Mandak thinks it is unfortunate Certified lifeguards are needed
dragged. His voice was almost in- the help I need and, with the help of Once Hawthorne was at the hospi- Huntley said that there is no that many freshmen make their Please came Coach Page
audible. He sobbed. my wife and friends, return as a bet- tal, he was treated and released to evidence so far that any particular Rush choices on the basis of alcohol, Rewnillard at or 0693 - oe
On July 16, Read had undergone a__ter person to serve a useful role in the W&L infirmary, where he stayed _ fraternity is responsible. instead of the actual quality of the , * :
psychiatric examination arranged by — this community.” the night. After a doctor examined Any findings of Huntley’s concern- _ house.
®

Spivey. On Thursday, Dr. Martin N.
Buxton, a Richmond psychiatrist,
presented some of his findings.

Buxton said that when Jane G.
Read was dying, John Read, then 14,
tried unsuccessfully to resuscitate
her. Buxton also noted that while
Read was recuperating from his war
wounds, “his company apparently
was wiped out,” leaving Read with
“survivor's guilt.’’

A narcissistic personality disorder
is one ‘‘in which there is a grandiose
sense of self-importance or unique-
ness,” according to the ‘‘Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders’’ by the American
Psychiatric Association. People suf-
fering from the disorder have a need
for constant admiration and atten-
tion, and their ‘‘exaggerated sense of
self-importance may be manifested
as extreme self-centeredness and
self-absorption. Abilities and
achievements tend to be
unrealistically overestimated. Fre-
quently the sense of self-importance
alternates with feelings of special un-
worthiness.”’

Read’s mother died of an overdose
of barbituates in 1958, according to
an Indiana death certificate. A later
state record recorded her death as an
accidental drug overdose.

Buxton said that when Jane G.
Read was dying, her 14-year-old son
tried unsuccessfully toe resuscitate
her. Buxton also noted that while
Read was recuperating from his war
wounds, ‘“‘his company apparently
was wiped out,” leaving Read with
“survivor’s guilt.”’

Read’s wounds in Vietnam includ-
ed the loss of a kidney, his spleen,

Surely, There’s

More To A
Record Store
Than This.

IT’S FINE WITH US IF YOU WANT TO ROCK.
BLT IT’S ALSO OK IF YOU DON'T. NO ONE
ELSE SAYS THAT.

Look, anybody can sell records. And sometimes it seems
everybody is selling records. The difference at FLIPSIDE is,

we're got something else up our sleeves.
SWING ¢ FOLK ¢ BLUEGRASS ¢ CLASSICS ¢ COUNTRY ¢
AND JAZZ. LORD. DO WE HAVE JAZZ.

Of course, you can still rock with FLIPSIDE. Better, faster, and 703-463-6055
cheaper. But we like to think that at FLIPSIDE, you aren't hurting ‘ or the price of one.
for options. exposure $966 24 exposure 29
FLIPSIDE FLIP Homemade OID io sicseceepess 3 MI isis, $7
. 25 W_Neison 15 exposure $429 36 exposure >
Ice Cream nau REE ROE (T2prints) ............... $999

AIN'T YOU GLAD

IT AINT A MALL?

463.14

SIDE

 

 

 

Kappa Sigma

 

Underage drinkers in dorms
could face fines if caught

 

By JASON LISI
Editor

 

The arrival of the class of 1990, a
group of students almost entirely
under the alcohol drinking age in
Virginia, are subject to a new for-
malized set of penalties for drinking
and drug use in the dormitories.

The new dorm rules set a standar-
dized system of punishment for
freshmen who possess alcohol or
drugs on first, second and third of-
fenses. After the third offense, the
policy says, a freshman may be ex-
pelled from the dormitory indefinite-
ly.

The rule says, simply, that there
will be no alcohol or drugs allowed in
the dorms at any time by freshmen.
The only alcohol in the dorms can be
in the possession of the dorm coun-
selors who are above the legal drink-
ing age.

Frosh

 

 

Continued from Page |

Hawthorne, as well as Crawford,

     
   
  

  
     
       

3 West Nelson Street,

 

Lexington Shoe Hospital
Downtown Lexington

(Expert Shoe Repair )

Open 8:00-6:00 Mon.-Sat.
Would like to welcome back all W&L students
and special welcome to W&L Coeds.

The reason formalized rules had to
be applied, Head Dormitory Coun-
selor Jeff Mandak said, was because
of problems that arose due to dif-
ferences in the way last year’s dorm
counselors punished freshmen who
possessed or used alcohol or drugs in
their dorm rooms.

The punishments in the new policy
are a combination of fines and refer-
rals to Dean of Freshmen H. Robert
Huntley, and get more serious with
each additional offense.

A freshman caught possessing
alcohol or drugs once will be fined
five dollars and sent to Huntley. A
freshman breaking the rules twice
will be fined $15 and sent to Huntley,
who will notify the student’s parents
of the violation. At the third offense,
a student will be fined $25, sent to
Huntley and the student’s expulsion
from the dormitory will be con-
sidered.

The new policy was written by a
subcommittee of the Alcohol and
Health Awareness Committee, a

him in the morning, he was allowed
to leave.

Dean of Freshmen H. Robert
Huntley had no definite figures on ex-
actly how many freshmen were
taken to the hospital over the week-
end, but said ‘“‘The number...said to

Lexington, Va

106 West Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia

Made Daily

Washington and Lee group dedicated
to teaching responsible and legal
drinking in the W&L community. The
subcommittee, the Policy and Ad-
ministrative Committee, drew the
rules up last spring, which were put
into effect when the members of the
freshman class attended hall
meetings Sept. 7.

Mandak said that this policy makes
the dorm counselor’s job an easier
one because there is a set way the
counselors must treat alcohol and
drug possession, rather than last
year when the severity of punish-
ment was due largely to the discre-
tion of the individual counselor. ‘‘It
was difficult for us to work with each
other because we were being incon-
sistent,’”’ Mandak said.

Third-year Law student and dorm
counselor Dandrea Miller said, with
time, inconsistency of the punish-
ment has ill effects on both the dorm
rules and the counselors. “After a
while, the regulation is no longer
taken seriously,”’ she said.

ing fraternities will be sent on to
Dean Atkins.

“Alcohol’s a dangerous substance
and people need to learn to use it
without abusing it,” Atkins said. He
believes some of the weekend’s pro-
blems are a result of freshmen drink-

apm EaenNT PERRIN
GENERAL NOTES:

 

Mu Beta Psi Honarary Music
Fraternity invites you to a get ac-
quainted cookout for all singers,
and instrumentalists Sept. 18 at
duPont Hall at 6:00 p.m. Any per-"
sons interested in playing in the,
W&L Jazz Lab Band or Brass
Ensemble should call Professor’
Stewart at 463-8851. é

Applications now being ac- ‘
cepted for the position of Calyx ,
Editor. All applications must be in
Carol Calkins office by Monday, °
Sept. 22. ‘

—_e ee
‘

Alpha Phi Omega, a co-educa-
tional service fraternity, will hold
a general meeting on Tuesday, +
Sept. 23, at 7:30 p.m. in Room 109 |
of the Student Center. This is an
introductory meeting, and all °
students are invited to attend.

4

There will be auditions for
“Roscius,” an original play by
Rose Gordon, Thursday and Fri-
day nights at 7:00 in the Universi-
ty Theatre.

Help promote responsible drink-
ing in moderation by joining the
Alcohol and Health Awareness

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pires 9/30/86.

 

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Rees baa
110 W. Prest iio
W. Preston Street Study Lamps, Lampshades
Extension Cords, Light
463-2512 Bulbs

 

115 S. Main St.,

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

  
       
     

 

It’s The Bottom Line!

Now at CRAFTS PLUS — the latest in board games. High stake gambl-
ing, money manipulation, life in the financial fast lane. It’s the Bottom
Line, developed by Trevor Pepperell (who was serving time for money
manipulation when he invented the game). By Maruca Industries, Inc.

  

 

     
 
      

Open Monday through Saturday 10:00 to 5:00
31 South Main Street, Lexington

$32.95
CRAFTS PLUS, INC. onne
GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES basil Yo. tase

463-3355

Never Do Laundry At School Again!

ae?
Two quality Colorwatch prints

C-jl process only for Disc & 35mm, full frame. Special prices for 110, 126, Offer ex-

Bierer’s Pharmacy

1N. Main St., Lexington

 

 

 

    
   
  
  
   
 
  
 

Lexington Lighting
& Electrical Supply

 

Telephones and Accessories

   
 

(703) 463-2833

R.L. Hess & Bro.

William L. Hess, Jr.

 

 

 

Staunton Steam Laundry Service

takes pleasure in an-

nouncing a new laundry and dry cleaning service for the

students at Washington and Lee University

Through the Valet Laundry Service, Staunton Steam

=< © © Se ~e O@t =

CALL Leer aan ata wonaiie CALL
203 E. Washington VALET — We sil PICK UP AND DELIVER vou wary WALET
| i LAUNDRY: LAUNDRY
463-4 709 S E RV 1 Cc E Bulk Laundry Our Price University Cleaners Ss E RV | [ E
469-2955 heme EG 463-2955
Jon Hedgepeth FOR PICKUP wii" ie FOR PICKUP
Peter Partee sctuveny Go SC & DELIVERY
Rush Chairmen OF ALL YOUR OF ALL YOUR
LAUNDRY S mater miseme stm, LAUNDRY &
DRY = eaten eoeageae DRY
CLEANING  Biiviaundry pickedupanddeiverediovouaer" CLEANING

463-2955
”

*

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 18, 1986, Page 5

 

 

=*
-%

Spies Ins

as te

a ear
POM des cae

ag 38%
5

an en tanaka’

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

When I was a freshman, I can
recall going through Rush without
any idea, whatsoever, of what I was
actually doing. I was continually ask-
ing myself, ‘‘What comes next?’’ It
was rather like agreeing to play a
couple of hands of poker without ever
having played the game before.
Because, when you get right down to
it, how many freshmen can honestly

Peeeecerreererrer er

t

eral ezat}

eae eee semn mmm conocer senna

Beta Theta Pi

say they’ve been through Rush
before?

So, to lessen the amount of risk in-
volved in the process, here is a
simplified, by-the-week, account of
“How Rush Works.”’ It is quite sim-
ple, as you’ll soon see; the key is
knowing, beforehand, what you are
getting yourself into.

For starters, keep one thing in
mind: the cards are in your hand.
The fraternities want you to join
them, and they’ll certainly let you
know about it. So relax; you have

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

      
    
    
     
     

 

 

 

 

Phi Delta Theta

uide to Rus

plenty of decisions to make and there
is no need for anxiety and worry.

Secondly, be yourself. Let the real
you show through. The only impres-
sion you need to worry about making
is an honest one. Now, here is how
this whole thing works. This Sunday
will be the official start of Rush. At
11:00 a.m., every fraternity on cam-
pus will set up a table in the Gilliam-
Baker-Davis quad. There you will be
able to sign up for Open Houses.
These are usually coat-and-tie affairs
which let the brothers in a house get
to know you better. If you remember
a few faces from a house, recall a
particularly fun evening last week-
end, whatever — then put your name
down on that house’s sign-up sheet.
The brothers will come to your dorm
and get you. They will escort you to
their house and there you can begin
meeting the brothers in a relaxed
social atmosphere. There will be soft
drinks served, more than likely, but
no alcohol is allowed.

At the Open Houses, brothers
might ask you to come back. In
Washington and Lee lingo, this is
usually, ‘‘We got ya’ comin’ back?”
You’ll probably end up hearing this
phrase in your sleep. What this

 

    

Photos by Perry S. H

 

 

ay
4

means is simply that the brothers
have taken an interest in you. What
you will be “‘comin’ back”’ to is, in
W&L’s Rush-talk, a ‘Rush Date.”
These are longer than open houses
and even more relaxed, since every-
one there is a return visitor.

By now, you should be getting a

good idea where you might or might.

not fit in. The key to joining the right
house is finding the right people.
That is what the Rush Dates and
Open Houses are are for. It’s as sim-
ple as that.

Now, if there is still some doubt in
your mind, there are weekend par-
ties and get-togethers to see each
house better. Remember this: every
house on this campus is, for better or
for worse, a social organization. It
can be hard sometimes, but try to
remember at which house you had a
fun time and at which you did not.

Now, beginning Oct. 1, bids can be
given out. A bid is exactly what you
might think it is: it is a house telling
you that they want you as one of their
brothers. Most of the houses on cam-

‘pus are one-ball houses. This means

that it only takes one person in the en-
tire fraternity to disagree with a

es/The Ring-tum Phi

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

ey
.

ySe

ree
war

ser

“Delta Tau Delt

 

 

Sigma Al

986

perspective and that perspective
does not get a bid. So if you get a bid,
it means, generally, that the entire
house likes you and wants you to bea
brother.

Beginning Oct. 3, bids will be ac-
cepted. When you accept a bid — that
is, agree to joing a certain fraternity
— you are doing what is called ‘“‘tear-
ing.”’ If you go to a house where
you’ve been given a bid, and you
want to join, you tell a brother, usual-
ly the Rush chairman, if the house
has one, that you ‘‘want to tear.’”

pha Epsilon

This is a big decision and remember,
you are holding all the cards. A bid is
good for a year. Don’t let anyone
pressure you; join when and where
you want to join.

So that is how all of this nonsense
works. It is not so complicated as it is
mysterious. One last thing: Rush is a
lot of fun. Otherwise, there really
isn’t any reason to go through the
trouble. So, enjoy yourself, think
about what you're doing, and, good
luck.

 

2
a

i Pg t i =
a ts
a

 

   
     
      
 
     
     
     
    
   
 
    
     
   
   
   
   

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Zeta Beta Tau

 

 

 

Sig

 

 

    

 

 

ma Chi

 
 
        

 

Kanna Sioma

Pi Kappa Phi
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 18, 1986

 
 

 

Polo team places second

Sophomore Reavy scores 20 on weekend

 

 

pressive second place in last week's

scored four goals apiece against

The General's only loss came from

chemistry on the squad, a lot of

about the season and the team’s

 

 

By ERICK KIECKHEFER Hopkins. Then Reavy and Perez ex- spirit." The team has been working : 4
Staff Reporter ploded to combine for twelve goalsin hard and often find themselves [*» > ¥ ee teeth a ;

the 24-4 romp over Dayton. scrimmaging outside of practice |. =e rei een “ = ane

Varsity Water Polo scored an im- time. “Everyone is really excited Be. i eter oe eS <n ge a?

"1986 Fall Classic’ meet. The
Generals dominated the six team
tournament with four commanding
victories in which they outscored
their opponents by an average of ten

their first two opponents, destroying

tournament champion University of
Arkansas at Little Rock. UA-LR sur-
prised W&L with a much improved
team from last year and defeated
the Generals by a mere two goals.

potential.”’

Head Coach Page Remillard prais-
ed the brilliant play of Kevin Lederer

 

goals each. The team was lead by “They added a few new impact and goalie Martin Radvancy who "Pr ; a {
sophomore Dave Reavy who scored _ players who would be an asset on any gave up only a handful of goals in the - ~ Soa
20 goals in five games. He was close- team in the country,’ commented weekend's five games. “They were yi iy : ia win ’
ly followed by teammates Simon Remillard. But no excuses were two of many key factors in our suc- a ee
Perez and David Dietz who tossed in made, Remillard was happy with cess,” said Remillard. ws ik Mita eget one ne, eos — ae”
5 y Syn PS he ES * ~

19 and 15 goals respectively. second place but knows his squad has ee. a" ce ofl ss =. x

Washington and Lee blew past the ability to be first and beat any — phic weekend the team will travel . " ai fo en ee

team they come up against this sea- org me es

to Annapolis to play in the Southeast

 

 

 

Lynchburg 20-4 and George Washing- $8. “‘I’m optimistic about our sea- Varsity Invitational where they will —s

ton 17-5. Dietz and Reavy each had $0n. We have talent and the right atti- face Navy, Browm, and Iona, three aepteras  aa

four against Lynchburg, and Reavy tude. teams ranked in the top-20. Lederer Ser =

led all scorers with five, Saturday says, “It'll be a good test for us, Iona Cc. 2 car ER =,

morning against George Washington. “Second place is nice, but only for _ is one of the top teams in the country = + = is

; The Generals’ victories over John so long. We have been second fora _ and it’s going to be a challenge.” “age
ie

Hopkins and Dayton were equally as
| impressive, defeating the two teams
combined score of 39-8. W&L was
lead by a balanced attack as senior

long time, now it’s time to be number
one and the guys are ready for it,”
stated Remillard. The players
believe that as well. Captain Kevin

Although the team will be away this
weekend, the players and Coach

Remillard look forward to a home-
stand the weekend of the 27th and

The water polo team in action at Cy Trombly pool.

 

 

Lederer noted that “‘there’s a real hope toa good crowd at the game.

.. Football falls to E&H for second straight year

Kevin Lederer and Dave Reavy both

Deja vu .

 

Tied ia =) 8 ) al : ’ S ‘ missing extending his streak of eight
cae’ se . % *e p , 1 Awe “bas dea ee Zz] 6By JIMLAKE consecutive 100-yard games.
a - Z a ; a 3 Ep , Staff Reporter The Generals have an open date

 

pe .
a . a a ; = 3 Me ’ this Saturday, and Fallon is glad to
F eo at ‘= F \ ‘ A Se fg a . have the extra time. ‘‘[The week off]
' a ; : wae Sauna = worked to our advantuge last year,
Weaver to an injury one week before and it should give us some valuable
time to improve for our next game.

their season opener. In response, : :
We must do a better job passing the
ane Came Gey Tee Hevempes ball and protecting the passer and we

the entire Generals’ offense, in- ;

stituting an all-out passing attack. must ate =, performances on
. . the specia teams.

The Generals were shut out in their HASHMARKS hn aed

first game, 904, at Emory and about any injuries sustained last

Henry. W&L took a week off, re- 7
‘ : week, Fallon said the Generals sur-
grouped, won seven of their next vived their opener with only ‘the

eight games, and tied for the Old = :
7 : _ . usual bumps and bruises,” allowing
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham everyone a full two weeks of practice

plonship. hi before the next game.... At Centre
ania y wadaane tnad o- Weaver will be attempting to surpass
champions, Wasp running back San- three more milestones in his fabulous

career, The senior running back ‘is
only seventy-seven yards short of
second place on W&L’s all-time
career yardage list. He needs only
eight points to become the Generals’
all-time scoring leader and two |
.touchdowns by the potential All-
;.American. will set a new school
record for touchdowns scored ina |

dy Rogers gained 216 yards and
scored twice to lead Emory & Henry
to a 31-9 victory over the Generals at
Wilson Field.

Despite a spectacular day for
Rogers, Fallon was pleased with
parts of the Generals’ defensive ef-'
fort. ‘“We played some Solid defense, *
limiting them to just three pass com-

 

: {
pletions and forcing six fumbles, but ‘@T@er. ~
we made some mistakes that killed Peer seer 8 te 0 2

us,’’

W&L started the scoring with a Bill
Crabill field goal in the first quarter.
The Wasps quickly responded, scor-
ing 13 points in the second quarter
and claiming a lead they would never
-¥ relinquish.

w Fullback Jim Barker scored the
Generals’ only touchdown in the
fourth quarter on a 20-yard run. Split
end Bobby Wilson led all W&L

WEL
E&H
E&H
E&H
E&H

FG Crabill 29
Cassell 1 run
FG Ginn 35

Rogers 5 run

 

(Ginn Kick)

(Ginn Kick)

Safety Thornton (intentional grou-
nding in the end zone)

FG Ginn 27

Rogers 56 run (kick failed)

Barker 20 run (pass failed)

E&H
Esk
WEL

 

 

First Downs
Rusnes-yaras

Tailback Kevin Weaver (40) turns upfield as Jim Barker blocks. Weaver gained 99

 

 

: ; . Passing yards 9
| yards against Emory and Henry on Saturday. receivers with five receptions for Return yaras ete
y g 7 7 y forty-eight yards, and Weaver gained punts” isa 6-154
99 yards on 29 carries, narrowly furtifsjiest 3 So4. Or0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

 

 

 

  

 

SERVIOTAR. THANKSGIVING and
23 S. Main Lexington, Va. 24450 CHRISTMAS Reservations
Lexington Hardware
463-2242. should be made NOW!! FOOTBALL ODAC Conf All Games
| er SPACE IS LIMITED on
Handcraft 3
afted all 30-Day Advance Fares. W L T Pts Op. WL T Pts Op.
Jewelry
Unique designs in silver, agg & Henry 1 0 0 31 9 2 0 0 38 5
old and porcelain a Bri gewater 0 0 0 0 0 a Oo 17 6
“a — Travel Unlimited Hampden-Sydney ee § 3 (ss 2 oS
rtist’s in Cahoots Maryville 2 6 . ss : <5
Gallery 21W. Washington Street Randolph-Macon 0 0 0 0 0 l 0 0 41 13
in Old Main St. Mall 463-7174 Washington & Lee ' s 8 » 3s se Ze 9 31
at Main and Henry Streets
Mon.-Sat. 10a.m. to5 p.m.
iN egestas Men's e#eoccra
iN
| Welcome (through 9/16/86) ODAC Conf. All Games
x mf f Ge Ga W ou 7 2@F = GA
\ To East. Menn. Sey ya eo ee ee
K Hampden-Sydney . e 8 0 0 . 3 3 a 49
K ° Lynchburg Y @ @g 0 0 ‘ @ § s
x Lexington Maryville ee 3 Ss i). oe
K Roanoke . G @ 0 0 : 3 4 = <2
'N eo Wash. & Lee . = 3 0 0 o 6.3% 0 0
N . SPARCO r
{| the most complete sports store in town. VINYL RING BINDERS nn eee
i & = 3-ring binders for 11" x 8'» sheets :
I We have Nike, Adidas, Converse, aT ~ 11 West Washington Street
A ° ey ° 1" CAPACITY 2s “ ~" iaanad Lexington, Virginia 24450
} a og Levi's, sponta eets, Bcaiees” (703) 463-9166
. (men and women), Calvin Klein for women cae | “y c
\ ( ), : 2.20:. | T 3.59:, Welcomes Your Business
N and many, many more lines. | re
N Binct 164840, | ~ oa We accept charge accounts to your parents.
‘ Or ~~ 6444) Dr 8 we 001
N — Z Red 164497 We will make special orders to
, P B 9 IT 4.49:, | Pad = 6.95:. get your brand of merchandise.
| Pres Brown's, inc. mee

G Gt 4 J la
I é B Oye Suppl

23 West Washington St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

(703) 463-3432

Decimeeiccn Sale ends October 31, 1986

10% off on original purchase.

115 West Nelson St., Lexington, Va.

Prescriptions
Phone: 463-3521

Hair care products
Dental needs
Berson Rr IF Sa aA a a et

Contact Iens care products
Shaving products

Better colognes and after shave lotions
ee

 

 

 

Ny
N
‘
N
N
N
NS
N
N
N
N
NY
>
N
N
N
N
N
N
NY

7 naaacdiai

Ti dadddddbdaaiiddddaaadadacracdcadidddicccicaavcccccccccdddddddcccdddccdddccciddddaaaddadddddaddidddidadiadiiddidadidiéia

 
The Ring-tum Phi, September 18, 1986, Page 7

soccer looks sharp,

 

SY

David Emrich

‘downs Shenandoah, 3-1 Dedication & Sacrifice

 

/
;
:
'
,
'

 

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Most of today’s sports teams are
cast in the role of underachievers,
This year’s Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team will not fall in that
category.

Yesterday, the Generals scored an
impressive 3-1 victory in its season
opener at Shenandoah. What made
the win so surprising is how sharp
W&L looked this early in the fall
schedule.

The Generals drew first blood
when sophomore Johnny Sarber
found the net at 19:38 of the first half.
Ten minutes later, it was Sarber
again as he gave W&L a comman-
ding 2-0 lead going into halftime.

Early in the second half, Shenan-
doah remained within striking
distance and cut W&L’s lead in half
to 2-1. The Generals appeared some-
what sluggish and this threw a scare
into Piranian.

“We didn’t come out playing too
well in the second half, and I became
nervous,” said Piranian. “It was a
good test of character.”

The Generals finally put the game
out of reach when they closed out the
scoring, giving W&L that all impor-
tant first game win. Piranian, who is
in his ninth year at W&L, was “‘pleas-
ed with the overall effort” as his
team continues its preparation for
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference with two games this weekend
in the North Carolina Wesleyan tour-
nament.

“IT was really surprised as to how
well we played in our first game,”
said head coach Rolf Piranian. “I
didn’t expect to do that well.’’

On the ODAC, Piranian feels that
Lynchburg, in view of its early
season record, is the ‘‘team to beat,”’
but feels that W&L is under a han-
dicap due to its late start.

“Yes, it’s a disadvantage, but I feel
that in a couple of weeks we will be
able to catch up,” said Piranian.
“That’s why we start our ODAC
schedule so late. It’s the school’s
schedule so there is really nothing we
can do about it.”

 

 

Piranian;: “I was...surprised how well we played in our first

game.”’

Harriers look strong as preparation continues
Many more women are participating this year

By ELIZABETH PARKINS
Staff Reporter

 

The men’s and women’s cross
country season doesn’t officially
begin until September 27 when the
two teams meet Mary Washington
and Washington at home. However,
they are not waiting around for the
season to start. Both teams have
been running daily around and
through Lexington. This past week
the women’s team began running on
the official 3.1 mile course. Although

times were not kept, the run gave the- -

 

: ite. ll oe es

ji
Ed

 

Rugby anyone?

women a chance to develop a sense of
what the course would be like.

“Some of the women really like the
hilly course but others were not so

agreeable,” said Sophomore Tracy
Williams

This years women’s team has
grown consideralbly in size since last
year, Where there was once only four
or five women running there are now
between thriteen and sixteen. In ad-
dition to these thirteen to sixteen, two
women from the law school have
been participating in the team’s
workout. While most of the new
members are freshmen several
sophomores have joined the team for

the first time. Copeland Kapp, Benny -

Savage, and Williams, along with
Anne Geary, and Kim Eadie who
were both injured last year, round
out the team. Yet all the news is not
good, top runner from last year,
Carolyn Abrogast will not be running
this year due to a knee injury.

One final change for this year is the
chance for the team to compete for
the ODAC title. Since last fall three
other schools in the ODAC con-
ference have added cross country
programs enabling an official con-
ference to be formed.

The men’s cross country team
seems to be coming together fairly
well. Again, Coach Miller does not

season except to say they will be
looking at each meet as it comes
along. The team will be built around
a strong core of returning seniors,
Captain Ted Meyers, Michael Freid-
man, and Ash Andrews. Also running
will be Junior Scott Rippeon and
Richard Moore and Sophomore
Michael Watson. The top runner last
year Scott Rippeon, will again be the
leading runner this year. Rippeon
last year ran a 27:50 in the 8,000
meters and finished 6th overall in the
NCAA South Regionals.

This fall the men’s team will host
both the ODAC. championships and
the NCAA Division 3 South Regional

want to speculate.on the upcoming-.Championships. ,
{

The Rugby Club is beginning to hold practices. Anyone interested in
joining the Club is encouraged to contact Capt. John Atkins.

  
 

 

Want to work for
The Ring-tum Phi?

Come by room 200
in the University Center

Thursday nights at 7:30.
iii ll

 

 

 

Imagine yourself being jolted from that safe, warm bed of yours at 6
a.m. by the harsh buzz of an alarm clock. Next, see if you can feel the
cold of the floor on your feet as you stumble toward the dresser, at-
tempting to find some suitable clothing. Then, visualize walking up to
the Warner Center for your morning workout.

Now, picture attending a whole day of classes. A pretty full
schedule, uh? I’m sure you can now fantasize about heading back to
your room to relax for a little while. Wait, not yet.

Conceive going back to your dresser at 3:15 p.m. and putting on your
bathing suit, this time for the afternoon workout.

And, following the afternoon workout, which ends at six, imagine go-
ing to the library to do all your homework and preparation for the next
day’s classes.

Does it sound like something that you would do? It certainly isn’t
something that I would want to do. But it is something that about
18 Washington and Lee students do each day as a part of their train-
ing program for the water polo team, and, since all water polo players
are also members of the swim team, these same students/athletes
continues this type of schedule during the winter swim season as well.
For those of you who were counting, that’s about six months of that
type of schedule.

Water polo has been at Washington and Lee for around 13 years and
W&L Head Coach Page Remillard has been in charge of both the water
polo and swimming programs for the last nine years. In that time he
has produced All-Americans in both polo and swimming.

As one could probably guess, the water polo players are a very
dedicated group of men. How dedicated? The 6 a.m. workout is op-
tional, yet according to Remillard, the great majority of the team at-
tends. “I don’t even go,” said Remillard, ‘“‘just to re-inforce the idea
that it’s not required.”

“These guys are willing to go the extra mile,”’ said Remillard. “Ata
lot of schools players will get scholarships and the coach will use that
to motivate his players but here it’s different.’’ Remillard continued,
“‘We have a bunch of guys who are self-motivated.”

Their self-motivation shone through two weeks ago when the team
went out to Buena Vista in order to run The Mountain.

Beginning at the edge of Buena Vista, the team ran on Route 60 to
the Skyline Drive, almost four miles, all of it uphill. This unusual
adventure was an aquatics tradition until last year, when the team
didn’t make the run. This year some of the players came to Remillard
and asked him if they could do it this year. Imagine, asking if you
could do something like that. That’s sort of like asking your history
professor if you could write a 15-page term paper just because you
want to prove something to yourself.

And while on the subject of the classroom, you might expect the
player’s grades to suffer as a result of all this intense training (not to
mention the actual competitions). Guess again.

The polo team had the fourth highest GPA of any W&L athletics
team in the most recently available figures with an average of 2.799.
This is well above the all-student average of 2.686.

“Their academic production in season is superior to their off-season
production,” noted Remillard. “It might be they just don’t pro-
crastinate during the season.”’

Oh, and yes, not only do they train extremely hard, and not only do
they perform in the classroom, they also win.

They opened the 1986 season in fine fashion by taking second place in
the eight-team field at the Fall Classic, held right here at Cy Trombly
pool last weekend.

What does all this mean? Well, not much to you and me, but I know it
would mean a lot to the athletes on the polo team if we could get out
and show some support. Just look around the school, there’s always
posters announcing all the matches. I hope to see some of you at the

~poel in thefuture.

 

 

 

SOME COLLEGE COURSES

ARE MORE EXCITING
THAN OTHERS.

 

 

 

How many college courses
teach you how to shoot the rapids?
Or rappel a cliff? Or find your
way out of a forest with nothing but
a map and compass to guide you?

At least one does— Army
ROTC.

And you could find your-
self doing any one of a number
of exciting serve training
activities lik > these in the Army
ROTC program.

Activities that develop your
stamina. And your self-confi-
dence.

But adventure training isn't
the only way you develop.

You'll ps learn the basics of
leadership and management by
attending ROTC classes, along
with the subjects in your major.

And you'll be excited
about two other benefits Army
ROTC offers. Financial assis-
tance. Up to $1,000 a year for
your last two years of Army
ROTC. And the opportunity to
graduate with both a degree
and a commission in today's
Army — including the Army
Reserve and Army National
Guard

ARMY ROTC.
BE ALLYOU CAN BE.

CONTACT CPT

463-8485, FOR

RANDY HILL,
INFORMATION

 

 

 
“<BACK PAGE

Theatre raises curtain on new season

 

 

By EVELYN M. FAHY
Staff Reporter

 

"he University Theatre, a quaint
building next to Sigma Nu fraternity,
is permeated with a sense of tradi-
tion. Despite its cracked walls and
grafitti adorned shop walls, the
theatre conveys a sense of intimacy
invaluable to theatrical production.

At last Tuesday’s annual open
house, while guests mingled and en-
joyed a wine and cheese reception,
slides of past productions rotated on
& projection screen to the tune of old
world music. Director of the theatre,
Al Gordon, called the guests’ atten-
tion to summarize the events sched-
uled for the 1986-1987 school year.

lhe season will open Oct. 17 with a
musical cabaret put on by a troupe of
singers and dancers known as the
‘Mixed Minks.’’ The group’s aim is
to celebrate coeducation through
musical comedy and, according to
sophomore Elizabeth Fowler, a
member of Mixed Minks, the troupe
is seeking new members. Auditions
will be held Sept. 23 at 8:00 p.m. in
duPont 102.

The highlight of the season will un-
doubtedly be the Oct. 31 world
premiere of ‘“Roscius,”’ a play writ-
ten by Rose Gordon, concerning the
life of 18th century Shakespearean
actor David Garrick. The play,

which, Rose Gordon terms “retro-
spective,” will delve into the ‘‘mean-
ing of his Garrick’s life, coordinated
with his stage life. It asks the au-
dience to evaluate.”’

“Roscius” will star W&L alumnus
Paul Norwood, ‘73, who has worked
extensively with the much respected
Folger Shakespearean Theatre in
Washington, D.C. Many other roles
need to be filled, though, and audi-
tions will be held Thursday, Sept. 18,
and Friday, Sept. 19, at 7:00 p.m. in
the University Theatre on Henry
Street.

On Dec. 2, a one-man touring show,
“Oh, Mr. Faulkner, Do you Write?,”’
will come to the University Theatre
to wrap-up the fall season. Other pro-
ductions slated for the remainder of
the year are the musical ‘‘Cabaret,”’
a senior major’s production, and a
play based on Carson McCuller’s
“Ballad of the Sad Cafe.”

Gordon introduced the newest ad-
ditions to the theatre faculty and
staff. Replacing Thomas Ziegler,
who is on sabbatical, is Don Lillie,
designer, and replacing Skip Ever-
son is technician Gary Huminston.
Also new to the University Theatre is
secretary Katrina Alderson.

Gordon went on to encourage as
many people as possible to par-
ticipate in the University Theatre
and he noted that ‘‘building up the au-
dience”’ is a main goal for the upcom-
ing season.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 18, 1986

WLUR’s 1986-87 weekly schedule

Mon-Th

Fri

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MORNING MAGAZINE: 6:30-9 a.m. MORNING MAG: HORIZONS:
9 a.m. - Noon 10 a.m. - Noon
AM OVERTURE: 9- 11:30a.m.
PREGAME PARTY: SOUND ADVICE:
NOVELS: 11:30 - Noon Noon - 1:30 p.m. Noon -2p.m.
NEWS: 12:30 p.m.
a GENERAL’S FOOTBALL: JUST PLAIN FOLK:
“COMMON GROUND:”’ 12:30-1 p.m. 1:30-4p.m.~ 2-4p.m.
JAZZ IS A5-LETTER WORD: 1-3p.m. SHADES OF THE BLUES: TWO BY THE AISLE:
BREAKTHRU RADIO: 3-5:30 p.m. 4-5:30 p.m. 4-6p.m.
NEWS: 5:30 -6 p.m. SCOREBOARD: CLASSICAL SHOWCASE:
5:30-6 p.m. 6-9p.m.
CLASSICAL SHOWCASE: CLASSICAL SHOWCASE:
6-10p.m. 6-8p.m. PSYCHEDELIC REELING IN THE YEARS:
SATURDAY: 6-8p.m. 9p.m.-12a.m.
SKYLINE: 10a.m.-N REELING IN THE YEARS:
7 poe 8-10p.m. ANTI-HEADACHE
MACHINE: :12-2a.m.
THIRD EAR: 12-2a.m. ROCK CLASSICS - 8 p.m. -12a.m. on oo
10 p.m. -12a.m.

The Smiths: Love ‘em or leave ‘em

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Liking the Smiths is basically a
question of whether or not one likes
the group’s lead singer, Morrissey.
His monotonous whine, pompous
British foppishness, and frequent
forays into the Sylvia Plath school of
self-absorption have put off many
listeners. Add to that his alledged
homosexuality (although he now
swears he is celibate), his odd stage
presence and his general eccentricity
(he wears a hearing aid even though
his hearing is perfect), and one can
see why he might be a difficult per-
son to swallow.

 

 

But Morrisey likes it that way. He
is proud of the fact that people either
love or hate the Smiths. He even
sings on their new album: ‘“‘She said,
‘I know you and you cannot sing’/I
said, ‘That’s nothing, you should hear
me play piano.’ ”’

So, here is basically the word on
this new Smith’s LP: if you love the
Smiths, you are going to adore ‘‘The
Queen is Dead,” and if you hate
them, well, you just don’t know what
you’re missing.

Oh, Morrissey is pure Morrissey,
all right, but he also has one of the
most acute senses of humor in cur-
rent pop music — a distinction his
detractors often overlook. Try these

Subscribe To

Send form below to:
Ring-tum Phi

lines, from “Big Mouth Strikes
Again:”’ ‘‘And now I know how Joan
of Arc felt/when the flames rose to
her Roman nose/and her Walkman
started to melt.’’ Or this from the
Kinks — like ‘Frankly, Mr. Shank-
ley:’’ I want to live and I want to
love/I want to catch something that I
might be ashamed of.”’

Moreover — and, certainly, more
important — Morrissey is a pro-
digious lyricist. His subject matter
on the new LP - loneliness, stardom,
the monarchy, the creative muse,
Oscar Wilde and Transvestisism—is
as intriguing as it is varied. His lyrics
are about as close to poetry as
anything in pop music. (Sorry, Bruce
Springsteen...) His best moments

 

The Ring-tum Phi
W&L’s Student Newspaper

For $25.00, you get weekly issues of the
paper delivered to your home.

 

 

 

 

Box 899
Lexington, VA 24450
—— se ee ee oe a a
| NAME
ADDRESS
CITY STATE
Zip

 

Enclosed please find $25 for a One Year Subscription
ee a CS AR RE AS OE ee ees ees eam ce ea creep a AT SR UN CR a SG a

come in brilliantly concise couplets,
like, “‘As you crawl into an empty
bed/Oh well, enough said,” and “‘I’ll
meet you at the cemetery (sic)
gates/Keats and Yeats are on your
side/but Wilde is on mine.’’ He has
problems — too wordy, too self-
indulgent—but this is only pop music.
And the music? Well, that is what
the Smiths are overlooked for more
than anything else. Mark my words:
Johnny Marr is the most underrated
guitarist in pop music today. His
psychedelic cacaphony on “The
Queen Is Dead’’ is riveting, his
Townshead-influenced acousitc
guitar strumming on “Big Mouth
Strikes Again’ is powerful and his
lush chord arrangements on
‘Cemetery Gates” and “I Know Its
Over” are warm and passionate.

So, if you hate the Smiths, then you
don’t know what you’re missing. And
if you love’em (like me), then ‘‘The
Queen Is Dead’ is your platter du
jour. Self-indulgence has never been
this sasy to dance to.

 

House. Until 7 p.m.

7 p.m.
Theatre.

tional.

 

» 4

Sy
a

.

By Hank Mayer/The Ring-tum Phi

 

CALENDAR

Thursday, September 18
5 p.m. — NEWCOMER’S WINE AND CHEESE RECEPTION: Alumni

7 p.m. — AWARD-WINNING AUTHOR: Katherine Paterson to speak
at Rockbridge Regional Library. Public invited.

7 p.m. — THEATRE AUDITIONS: For ‘‘Roscius,”’
Rose Gordon, University Theatre.

an original play by

Friday, September 19
— THEATRE AUDITIONS: For ‘“Roscius,’”’ University

7 p.m, — AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: Water Polo, S.E. Varsity Invita-

Thursday, September 25
8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘‘Can the Constitution Survive the Third Cen-
tury?’’ Norman Ornstein, Phi Beta Kappa visiting scholar. Moot
Courtroom, Lewis Hall. Public invited.

 

 

‘Aliens’ combines sci-f

with old war classics

 

By JIM BENNET
Movie Critic

 

Contact is lost with a distant space
outpost. Colonial Marines are dis-
patched to investigate. Would you go
with them, knowing full well what
you were going to face? Certainly not
the audience this reporter was with,
but none of us has the guts of junior
flight officer Ripley, played by the at-
tractive and intelligent Sigourney
Weaver.

“Aliens”, directed by James
Cameron of ‘Terminator’ fame,
takes the original horror/science fic-
tion ‘‘Alien”’ and turns it into a futur-
sitic platoon combat romp reminis-
cent of old John Wayne films. The in-
teresting, and relieving, twist,
though, is that this film does not
wallow in the current genre of big-
bicep machismo, but rather shows
that sensitive emotions can be more
powerful than brute force. Cameron
models his doomed marine platoon
on the Vietnam example of superior
technological firepower not stopping
a determined enemy,

“Aliens” picks up with Sigourney
Weaver being rescued from her
space shuttle after hibernating in
hyper-sleep for 57 years. No time is
lost, however, in sending her back to
the newly inhabited planet — a planet
with an alien vessel filled with eggs

pite Front Mar

Ce

167 S. Main St., 463-3106

Students

only a alien mother could love. In-
deed, Freud would have a heyday
with the maternal emotions por-
trayed in the film as Sigourney
Weaver becomes attached to a cute
girl-the planet’s sole surviving col-
onist. Meanwhile, all the hulking
marines meet their doom to aliens
whose intelligence is fatally under
estimated.

Supporting performances are
given by Michael Biehn (‘‘The Ter-
minator’’) as Hicks — the cool and
level-headed marine corporal — and
Paul Reiser as Burke — the company
representative and space yuppie who
will literally sacrifice anything to
make money for himself. Lance Hen-
nleson portrays Bishop, the android,
who shows much improvement over
the murderous android of the earlier
film.

Other performances are _inten-
tionally cliched and amusing, such as
the ‘“‘by the book’’ lieutenant, the
tough veteran sergeant, and Buc
Paxton (‘‘Weird Science’) as Hud-
son, the cowardly private who ex-
presses the audience’s ‘‘get the hell
out of there’ attitude.

So if you were one of the few
Americans to miss ‘‘Aliens’’ this
summer, definately take advantage
of it this coming week, but do try to
remember the ideas of the original so
as to fully appreciate this worthy se-
quel, sorare in modern film.

 

Welcome Back

We offer student charge accounts. We can send the bill to
you or have it sent home to your parents. We offer a com-
plete line of fresh produce and meat products. This year,
we have added a line of deli meats for your convenience.
We also carry a complete line of imported and domestic
cheeses and wines.

Stop By And See Us Today!

Serving the W&L Community for over 30 years.

 

 

i gil gig ee sm

owe

eam gg gg ge,

 

eg eR pin. agra

« ~ we

gag, a, a: ig
