 

  

Music to

 

The “ittle Saints
play the GHQ

  
 

 

Study by
New carrel policy
started in library

 

 

 

VOLUME 8, NUMBER 3

 
   

Page 6

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Page 3

 
   

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV

(Ty

LEXINGTON VA -

SEP 2¢ 1986

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your Foxfield weather:

Partly cloudy and
warm through Monday

 

SEPTEMBER 25, 1986

 

Committee
suggests

new lights

By MATHEW HORRIDGE
Assistant News Editor

 

 

The Washington and Lee Athletic
Department is considering the idea
of lighted tennis courts, the Ex-
ecutive Committee said during its
meeting Monday.

Senior representative Baltzer Le-
Jeune said he brought the suggestion
of lighted courts to Director of
Athletics William D. McHenry last
week.

McHenry told LeJeune that al-
though lights for the lower tennis
courts had been considered in the
past two year’s budgets, no money
was set aside this year due to the ex-
pense of the new athletic fields near

Liberty Hall. McHenry estimated the
cost of lighted courts at $20,000, said
LeJeune.

LeJeune said McHenry suggested
students give their requests for
lighted courts to University Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, a move which
may attract more attention from the
administration.

EC President Shayam Menon ask-
ed EC members to poll for student’s
opinions about lighted courts.

In other EC action:

Fifteen organizations turned in
budget requests for consideration at
next week’s budget hearing.

The budget hearing will be at 6:20
p.m. on Tuesday, according to EC
Vice President Brandt Surgner.

The Student Activities Board, after
returning over $5,000 to the EC last
year, has requested $7,000 less than it
did last year. The Political Review
has asked for $1,000 less than last
year’s request. The Hockey Club,
Contact and the Film Society also
have decreased budget requests.

The Ring-tum Phi, the Journal of
Science and the fencing team have
increased their budget requests over
last year’s.

Four new organizations — the
Rowing Club, the East Lex Lacrosse
Club, Club Lacrosse and the
Women’s Forum — have submitted
budget requests.

Four organizations were granted
extensions for their budget requests,
according to Surgner. The Calyx, the
Independent Union, the International
Club and Mock Convention were
given until Monday to submit their
requests.

 

Coke habit

 

 

ank Mayer/The Ring-tum P

By

Freshmen drink soft drinks and get acquainted with the brothers at Sigma Nu’s first Rush date Wednesday night.
Rush dates three and four will be held Friday night.

Junior class president
arrested on misdemeanors

 

By MATHEW HORRIDGE
Assistant News Editor

 

Junior class president Michael
Henry was charged with assault and
battery and obstructing justice after
throwing a cup of beer on a Lexington
police officer this weekend.

Officer Phil Joines was struck with
a cup of beer at 1:45 a.m. while he
and another officer were standing on
the porch of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity house on East Washington
Street, according to police reports.

“T was standing by the window and
Saw cops...and for no reason in the
world, I did it [threw the cup of
beer],’’ Henry said.

When he went to bed later, Henry
said he ‘‘started thinking about what
I'd done,”’ and realized the act was a
“mindless, disrespectful thing to
do.”’

That evening SAE president

Cooper Crawford and Henry went to
the police station to advise Joines
that Henry was responsible for
throwing the beer.

“We talked for about 20 minutes,”’
Henry said. “I told him I was very
sorry.”

Henry was arrested Sunday night
and charged with the two misde-
meanors. He was released on a sum-
mons and has a trial date set for Nov.
18.

“I do agree with them that it is
something that needs to be handled in
court,” Henry said. “‘I just screwed
up.”

In other police news:

eSenior Nicholas Komas reported
that someone took his wallet contain-
ing $160 in cash from his room in the
Woods Creek Apartments Sept. 13.

Joclyn Wilson, who was visiting
Komas at the apartment, saw a male
suspect in the apartment that morn-
ing.

University Proctor Charles F.
“Murph” Murray showed Wilson a
Lexington High School yearbook and
she identified a juvenile male.

The wallet was replaced on Komas’
dining room table Sept. 19 without the
cash.

eFreshman Ben Lett reported that
someone entered his unlocked
Graham-Lees dormitory room and
removed an $800 Cartier watch.

The watch was reported taken
Sept. 13 sometime between noon and
6 p.m. from the top of Lett’s
refrigerator. Police have no
witnesses or suspects in the case.

Sophomore John Maxwell re-
ported that someone took two tapes
and a wallet containing vehicle
registration papers from the glove
box of his 1973 Scout.

The items were valued at $20.
Police have no suspects or witnesses
in the case.

IFC meets —
with police

 

By ERICK KIECKHEFER
Staff Reporter

 

Fraternity presidents and other
representatives met with Lexington
Chief of Police L.O. Sutton and City
Manager Joseph King to discuss
noise violations, underage drinking
and fraternities’ role in the com-
munity at last Thursday’s Inter-
fraternity Council meeting.

Some of the same fraternities at
this meeting were warned and later
cited for breaking noise violation
rules last weekend.

A meeting between the city and the
fraternities is held annually for the
city to explain its expectations of
fraternity conduct throughout the
school year.

Sutton explained the city’s rules on
noise permits. ‘‘Amplified sound,”
such as bands and loud stereos, is
prohibited without a noise permit,
Sutton said. Although most permits
are valid only until 11:00 p.m., Sutton
said he has been issuing ones that
last until midnight with the under-
standing it ‘‘takes time for the band
and noise to wind down.”’

Sutton outlined other Lexington
policies regarding noise violations.
“Continued unnecessary or unusual
noise or sound cannot become an an-
noyance to others,’’ Sutton said. The
noise from horns, signals and radios
must not travel more than 50 feet
from where it originates, he said:

Sutton also talked about the new
Alcohol Beverage Control Board

INSIDE

Opinion, page 2:

rules making only those born after
July 2, 1966 legal to drink. He said he
does not approve of underage drink
ing and voiced his concern to the
students. ‘‘Fraternities need to keep
it under control and use caution; they
should be aware of their respon-
sibilities,” Sutton said.

The regional ABC representative,
Roger Stevens, did not come to the
meeting as expected. Sutton said a
meeting between himself and the
representatives from the fraternities
was designed ‘‘to help guide them to
a problem-free year.”’

Washington and Lee has seventeen
fraternities, most located near
private residential homes.

Several parties with bands were
shut down Saturday night because of
noise complaints about fraternity
houses on Washington Street, Sutton
said.

Police officers started shutting
down parties at 12:30 a.m. Sunday
morning on Washington Street, Lee
Avenue and in the Henry Street
fraternity area called ‘‘Red Square.”’
Warnings and citations were given to
several houses.

Alan Scarisbrick, president of Kap-
pa Sigma fraternity, said he under-
stood the police action this weekend.
“Chief Sutton was just doing his job;
it’s the law and he has an obligation,”
he said.

Despite the problem of the
weekend, Sutton said he thinks the
year is off to a good start. ‘It could
be better, but it could be worse,’’ he
said. After Rush ends next week, Sut
ton does not anticipate any more pro
blems, he said.

The frustrations of trying to park at W&L.

 

News, page 3:

New carrel policy in library causes some conflicts.

 

Sports, page 5:

team.

 

Water polo misses big upset against the nation’s number 10 ranked

 

Lexington offers new hotel and ‘fun’ ideas for tourists
Visitor Center offers guide

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Who says there’s nothing to do in
Lexington?

Not us. Why, not only can one im-
merse himself in the rigors of study
in this town, but one can also im-
merse himself in the rigors of
tourism. This, if you’ll remember, is
Historic Lexington. Robert E. Lee,
Stonewall Jackson ... Let’s face it,
Lexington has fun written all over it.

There are some people, however,
who need a little help finding fun
things to do. When it comes to fun,
the place to go is the Lexington
Visitor Center on Washington Street.
There, one can find information con-
cerning tours, carriage rides, direc-
tions to Lee Chapel — you name it.

But for those cynics who say, “Aw,
I’ve seen all that’? — don’t despair.
The Visitor Center also offers a
pamphlet for the Exquisitely Bored
called ‘109 Ways To Enjoy Yourself
In Lexington and Rockbridge County
Virginia.”

And I bet you didn’t even know
there were 109 ways to have fun in
this town.

Some of the brochure’s suggestions
are related to Washington and Lee
and others mention Lexington’s
history, festivals and other features.
The brochure can be picked up at the
Visitor Center if you are really
curious. But if you want only the
highlights, we present a sampling, in

the brochure’s words’ of the more
unusual ways to find fun in Lex-
ington.

¢ Eat with the college students at
either Washington and Lee Universi-
ty or Virginia Military Institute.

e Explore the ruins of Liberty
Academy. It was the predecessor of
Washington and Lee University.

¢ Take your children to the Natural
Bridge Zoo and let them pet a wild
anima!

¢ See the National Historic Land-
mark cadet barracks at Virginia
Military Institute and wander the
campus where Ronald Reagan’s
movie “Brother Rat’ was filmed.
The movie was premiered at Lex-
ington’s State Theatre.

¢ Find the watering trough that
once refreshed General Robert E.
Lee’s horse, Traveller, and General
Stonewall Jackson’s horse, Little
Sorrel.

e See the wonderful texture of the
statue done by Edward Valentine of
Robert E. Lee at Lee Chapel and be
surprised by the size of his boots.

¢ Watch the precision of a horse
show on the Southern Seminary
Junior College campus.

e Attend a meeting of the Rock-
bridge Arts Guild and find out how
artists doit.

« See if you can march around the
12-acre parade ground on the campus
of Virginia Military Institute. It is the
oldest state-supported military col-
lege in the nation.

e Join the students and play your
favorite video game at a local
resturant.

 

ieee

ed

 

 

 

 

 

The new Comfort Inn Hotel is on Route 11.

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

New hotel
debuts in

Lexington

 

By STACY MORRISON
Staff Reporter

 

Lexington’s active tourist industry
and college weekends have promptec
a company to build another hotel ir
the small college city.

The Comfort Inn, located on Route
11, opened in the last week of Augus
and is doing business now

Craig Andersen, general manage
of the Lexington Comfort Inn said the
decision to build another hotel in Lex
ington was based on two factors: the
future opening of Interstate 64 anc
the large weekends at the area col
leges, such as Homecoming at Wash
ington and Lee and the Virgini:
Military Institute.

Although the opening of the ir
terstate had been set for this year, i
appears that the highway will n
open until next year.

But the college weekends ar
continuing as always. The Comfo:
Inn was booked for Parent
Weekend, Nov. 7, 8, and 9, thre
hours after opening. The inn wa
booked for Homecoming, Oct. 17 a1
18, the day after opening

See Hotel, page 4
OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, September 25, 1986

  

 

No parking

While shopping for cars this summer, one of my major con-
siderations was to find a very small and narrow car. Why? I
knew I would be returning to Lexington and W&L and the
land of no parking.

This is certainly not a new problem. The lack of spaces for
student parking and the vigor with which the Lexington
Police hand out traffic tickets are legendary. Several alumni
from my hometown warned me of the parking problem
before I came to W&L. In fact, one of my first memories of
W&L was trying to negotiate the Corral, that bizarre parking
lot at the base of the hill, desperate to park so I wouldn’t be
late for my interview.

Returning to W&L this September (in my new small and
narrow car), one of the first greetings heard from the faculty
was not the typical ‘‘Hi! How was your summer?’’, but “Oh
no! The students are back! There goes all the parking!”’

With the added obstacle of the new dorm construction, the
parking is more confusing than ever. Access to lower lots has
been heavily curtailed. Students parking behind the gym or
near the old train depot should be issued maps to navigate the
gaping holes and constuction equipment. When the freshmen
and their parents arrived, the construction created a
nightmare. Several parents parked by the Commerce School
only to find that their son or daughter was to move into Davis
Dormitory. The W&L security was called upon to direct traf-
fic so parents wouldn’t run head on into one another on the
one lane area that spans the constuction ditch.

Another parking obstacle is the infamous Corral. I know
several students who have dented their cars on the concrete
and wood contraptions that line the Corral. (Just what pur-
pose do those things serve other than to batter your car?)
Creative parking should be offered as an elective, or at least
aP.E.

The Lexington Traffic Police is a force to be reckoned with.
I’ve seen more than one student running down the Colonnade
to move his car. The police in their outboard motor “‘traffic-
mobiles” mercilessly hand out traffic tickets. (The Lex-
ington City budget must contain a large allotment for chalk.
The revenue is generated, no doubt, from traffic tickets. )

The upperclassmen and faculty do have a hard time find-
ing a parking spot, it’s true. But the worst parking by far is
that for freshmen. ‘‘Where do I park?’’, asked one freshman
during orientaion. An upperclassman answered vaguely,
‘Over that’a way,” waving toward Natural Bridge. During a
storm last year, a tree fell on a freshman’s car, but wasn’t
jiscovered until later the next day by a security officer
scouting what is referred to as the “‘back forty.” It’s common
0 hear among freshmen ‘‘I’m going to get my car. I’ll meet
/ou in twenty minutes.”

There is a problem with parking space. There isn’t enough
ind what there is isn’t accessed very easily. I hope after com-
letion of the new dorm (which will result in more students
rying to park near campus), that some consideration will be

iven t nding parking facilities.
iven to expa g parking ‘MED

ee ee eed

There’s a spot!
| can make it!

| WASH NGTOr

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PERS

 

   

 

 

Reader sees the University as home

 

MY VIEW
By John Pensec

 

It was with mixed emotions that I
returned to Lexington almost three
weeks ago. I was certainly glad to
start my senior year, but with that
commencement there was the reali-
zation that, in a short time, another
commencement would send me out
from the world of academia. That
thought is enough to send my
stomach plunging.

While only the passage of time will
give us the objectivity to judge our
years at Washington and Lee, I think
we are each in a position to judge, to

some degree, the University itself. It
is a rare student that becomes an in-
delible part of this university, but
Washington and Lee does become, to
a greater or lesser extent, a part of
each one of us.

The University is guided by the
Honor System. If that system works
the way it should, not only are our
four years guided by it, but our entire
lives as well. It is a comfort to think
that the ideals present in the White
Book are also present across the
country, from boards of directors of
corporations to the United States
Supreme Court.

The Honor System is one way the
University touches our lives; there
are others.

Those of you who were here last

year may remember a column I
wrote shortly before Christmas. In it
I said that Washington and Lee was
not home. I was wrong. Using the
definition of home given in grammar
school, I thought a person could have
only one home and only one family.
This is not true. A home is wherever
one feels comfortable and at ease,
and a family is people with whom one
feels at home. The Washington and
Lee community fits both definitions.

But just as I was wrong in defining
home, it is easy for one to mistakenly
define a university. It is not just a
group of buildings in which classes
are taught. A university is comprised
of people, teachers and students,
each of whom love what they are do-
ing. There are some professsors

LETTERS

Fraternity protests facts of Phi editorial

whose love of their subject is match-
ed only by their love of teaching and »
of passing their love of specific sub-
jects on to their students. Students
are also teachers in the sense that
they bring fresh ideas to those sub-
jects.

I don’t know how much I have
taught people over thé past three
years, if anything. I do know,
however, that I have léarned a lot. As
I witness autumn in the Shenandoah
Valley for the last time, I will think
about Washington and Lee and how
much I will miss this university. But
I will also think of ways in which I
can pass on to others what I have
learned here and thereby live up to
the ideals on which this university is
based.

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

  

NEWS STAFF

TIE oie scsi thier sccteccssencies seeesessegyiesissieeeis iii Jason Lisi
TR 655 66s anes cages ech vcessns dees: csecsiteceinsssshisccss cul, Sean Bugg
Managing Editor, Entertainment Editor...................... . Marshall Boswell
5 Gi Se David Emrich
Te iia ies Perry Hayes
Da isi ivi isha sike aa Mathew Horridge
SR icin ime aia Mike Shady
EDITORIAL PAGE

I i conc eck hed hati Marie Dunne
COI Gis veivecceesi cei dasesecscebessiceeccsscuusnl Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF

PE UNO oo vecccce cscs kavees staetuscinssi enc Greg Turley
AAVIETIE IMAI 05 ios eae csticc atime ke Robert Jones
CORON MINN oo i ihe Mathew Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
s otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
he Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run, Or send them to The
ting-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
lefinitions of libel and obscenity.

 

To the editors:

|under this year.

handle an emergency that the “apathetic”
fraternity ignored. This was not the case.
In a meeting with the Phi editors, last week,

claimed that the editorial was “her opinion.”
Granted, an editorial is an opinion, Miss Dunne,

her free rein to execute a rather melodramatic

Opinion. Most readers who were here the week-
end before last can discern the lack of in-
vestigative skills involved in assembling the
editorial; unfortunately, those who were not here
probably couldn’t have the same perspective.
For the sizable number of parents, teachers and
alumni who read The Ring-tum Phi, the editorial
presents a shallow, indictment of a “callous”
fraternity that refused to help a severly injured
freshman. A readable editorial is a desirable
goal, a goal so desirable to Miss Dunne, it seems,

 

In an unfortunate accident last week, a
freshman fell at the SAE house. His injuries
were minor, but the repercussions from the inci-
dent were a cause for concern for many mem-
bers of the W&L community. The purpose of this
letter is threefold: to clarify the facts of the inci-
dent, to question the Phi’s handling of it and to
ask for some understanding of the pressures that
all fraternities here are finding themselves

The facts of the front page story are accep-
table. The editorial, however, leaves much to be
desired. The ffeshman did fall and scrape his
head. No blood ‘‘oozed”’ from his ear, however.
The cut was a small one about two inches in front
of his ear. The parties did ‘interrupt their
reveries”’ to help. Several SAE’s furnished
blankets and called the ambulance. The editorial
suggests that the VMI students were the fresh-
man’s saviors. In actuality their help was of-
ficious, condescending and for the most part un-
necessary. Their overbearing presence was a big
reason for SAE’s seeming apathy. After the am-
bulance arrived, the VMI students were thanked
and sent on their way. Rush parties are closed to
all but the W&L community and their guests. All
fraternity parties are closed to VMI students
without written invitations. Finally, the VMI
students were not putting themselves at risk to
be on fraternity property. When they first saw
the fallen freshman they came from the adjacent
fraternity’s front yard approximately three or
four minutes after the accident. The editorial
makes it seem as if the VMI students witnessed
the fall, and then placed themselves in danger to

Miss Dunne, the author of the editorial in ques-
tion, refused to run a correction of the facts. She

however, was not there. Absence, it seems, gave
piece of muckraking by assembling the bits of

gossip she heard on the Hill into a “‘story.”” SAE
asked only that she correct her facts, not her

that she is willing to engage in National Enquirer
type journalism to achieve it. The W&L com-
munity does not deserve this kind of writing, The
Phi mishandled its representation of the inci-
dent.

This mishandling should not be ignored. This
year marks the culmination of several years of
pressure on fraternities. The new drinking laws
make it hard for fraternities to continue
anything resembling the social life that they are
used to. In this time of transition, the last thing
W&L’s strong fraternity system needs is a
crusading overzealous student newspaper
waiting to twist the knife in any vulnerable
fraternity’s back. The W&L community has
every right to be informed. Scandal sheet jour-
nalism however, does not qualify as information.
The Phi owes it to the W&L community at large,
and especially the fraternity system to refrain
from such tactics in the future.

Rob Gresham
Class of 1986, ’89L
The Brothers of Sigma Alpha Epilon

Student reacts to Honor System

To the editors:

When I arrived at Washington and Lee two
weeks ago, I immediately came face to face with
the University’s Honor System, To someone who
is first making contact with the system, it can be
a curious experience. I wondered if I could truly
leave my possessions unattended. Each time |
locked my dorm room, I wondered if I was doubt-
ing the Honor System by worrying that my
stereo, etc. might not be safe.

Last Sunday I inadvertently left two shirts
hanging in the laundry room. When, on the
following Thursday, I realized they were miss-
ing, I hurried to the laundry room and found
them there, untouched. This incident inspired
me to be proud of my new school and the people
here. I eagerly told my parents and friends at
other colleges that the Washington and Lee com-
munity really was made up of honorable people.

That pride later turned to dismay and anger
when I found that a pair of stereo headphones
had been stolen from my carrel in the University
Library. (Because I purchased the headphones
abroad, I can neither replace them nor provide
information about the foreign brand name. Thus,
it is useless to report the theft.) I was disillusion-
ed and embarrassed that the ideal community |
had held up to parents and friends was not so

"ideal after all.

After placing everything in perspective, I still

am proud of the W&L community; I believe that
the Honor System is highly successful and that
the vast majority of the people in the Washington
and Lee community are honorable. I am writing
this letter, however, with hopes that others
might learn from my experience and consider
ae precautions to protect their personal pro-

Stephen S. Mattingly
Class of 1990

Reader corrects ‘Rush Guide’

To the editors:

I would like to make a fairly significant correc-
tion to Mr. Marshall Boswell’s article, ‘A Guide
to Rush 1986.”’ In his article, Mr. Boswell stated
that, ‘A bid is good for one year.” This state-
ment is simply incorrect. The length or duration
of which a bid is considered ‘‘good”’ is solely up
to the decision of each individual fraternity. Bids
vary greatly from house to house. The best way
to find out about bids is to question the houses
that interest you.

Jon Solomon
Class of 1988

Student finds cartoon correct

To the editors:

Congratulations on the cartoon carried on the
Sept. 18 edition’s Opinion page. It presents im-
portant insight into the recent rash of alcohol
abuse by some members of the freshman class.

The depiction of those students as puppets is
accurate; many of them are Puppets of peer
pressure who seek acceptance from upper-
classmen and a chance to prove their “sophis-
tication.”’

Unfortunately, few of these students realize
that they need not capitulate to peer pressure in
order to be accepted. At several frat parties, I
politely refused the offers of alcohol, and I was
not derided for my decision.

Hopefully, more people will come to under-
stand that drinking is not proof of sophistication.
There are students at Washington and Lee who
do not feel that intoxication is fun and who
believe in standing by their convictions, No one
should allow themselves to be pressured into
drinking if they do not wish to do so.

Stephen S. Mattingly
Class of 1990

 

 

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 25, 1986

 

 

Gift

Washington and Lee University President John D. Wilson (second from right) accepts Chinese brush painting enti-

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

 

tled “Young Bamboo and a Rock,” from Grand Justice Herbert H.P. Ma of Taiwan (second from left).

Ma presented this painting and a calligraphy, both done by his father, artist Shou-hua Ma of Taiwan, while he was on
the W&L campus to deliver a lecture on “Law and Social Change;

Taiwan” on Sept. 11.

Standing at left is Frederic L. Kirgis, dean of the W&IL law school; at far right is I-Hsiung Ju, professor of art and

artist-in-residence at W&L.

From Releases

The Budweiser Clydesdales, official symbols of
Anheuser-Busch, Inc. for more than 50 years, will visit
Lexington Oct. 2 for appearances on behalf of the Multi-
ple Sclerosis Fund Drive at Virginia Military Institute
and Washington and Lee University.

The eight-horse parade will travel through VMI
beginning at 10:30 a.m., ending up at Lee Avenue in
front of Washington and Lee around 2:30 p.m.

The Budweiser Clydesdales are also scheduled to ap-
pear in Harrisonburg, Waynesboro and Staunton during
their visit to the Shenandoah Valley.

Since April 1933, when the world’s leading brewer ac-
quired a team of Clydesdales to celebrate the repeal of
Prohibition, the Clydesdales have been traveling

 

——————————————————————
Budweiser horses to appear

America from coast to coast.

In their 52-year history, the Clydesdales have travel-
ed nearly 1.3 million miles and appeared in nearly 7,000
parades and events from the annual Tournament of
Roses and Macy’s Thanksgiving Day parades to small-
town celebrations.

There are three traveling eight-horse Clydesdale
hitch teams, based in St. Louis, Mo.; Merrimack, N.H.;
and Romoland, Calif. The three teams log approximate-
ly 90,000 miles and make more than 300 appearances an-
nually.

To be selected for one of the three hitches, a horse
must be at least three years of age, stand approximate-
ly 18 hands high, be bay in color, have four white stock-
ing feet, a blaze of white on the face and have a black
mane and tail.

 

The Experience of the Republic of China on

 

 

 

Staff Reports

 

Junior Rodger Reynolds and sophomore Christian
Blessey have been chosen to be co-editors of the 1987
Calyx by the University Publications Board.

Reynolds, from Wynnewood, Pa. and Blessey, from
Metairie, La. were interviewed during the past week
and were chosen on Tuesday night to co-edit Wash
ington and Lee’s yearbook.

The University Publications Board is composed of the
editors and business managers of the Ring-tum Phi, the
Political Review, the Calyx, and the Ariel, past editors
and business managers of those publications and three
advisors.

Reynolds and Blessey both mentioned what they
would change in the format of the Calyx and gave their
experience during their interviews.

Former Prime Minister to speak

Edward Heath, former Prime Minister of Great Bri-
tain, will present the third H. B. Johnson Distinguished
Leadership Lecture in Cameron Hall at 8 p.m., Oct. 1.
This event offers an extraordinary opportunity to see
and hear in person one of the world’s current political
leaders. No tickets or reservations are required.

Paintings to displayed

The recent paintings of John Borden Evans will be ex-
hibited in duPont Gallery between Sept. 23 and Oct. 23.

Evans will discuss his paintings with students in the
gallery on Friday, Sept. 26, at2p.m. On Friday evening
at 7 p.m. there will be a reception for the artist.
Refreshments will be served and the public is invited.

Evans’ works of textural paintings have been includ-
ed in the “Recent American Works on Paper 1985” ex-
hibit (Smithsonian Institution SITES Tour), ‘‘22
Southeastern Artists From SECCA”’ exhibit in Chapel
‘Hill, N.C., and other group exhibitions. He has had solo
exhibitions in the Margaret Heath Gallery in Charlot-
tesville and the Davidson College Art Gallery in David-
son, N.C.

Guild announces concerts

The Washington and Lee University Concert Guild
will offer six concerts during the 1986-87 series.

Among the concerts scheduled for the series are the
Vienna Schubert Trio, the Masterplayers of Lugano,
Music for A While, pianist Grant Johannesen, mezz-
soprano Jan DeGaetani and pianist Gilbert Kalish, and
the Stradivari String Quartet.

All concerts are scheduled for 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The concerts are free to the University community.
Season ticket prices are $18 for adults and $8 for non-
W&L students and senior citizens. Single concert ad-
mission is $5 for adults and $2 for non-W&L students and
senior citizens.

The Concert Guild series opens Tuesday, Oct. 7, with
the Vienna Schubert Trio. Since its debut at the Vienna

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Two chosen as Calyx co-editors

Festival in June 1984, the Vienna Schubert Trio has ap-
peared at several international festivals. The trio offers
a repertoire of the major works of piano literature,
works from the time of Schubert, and compositions
from the first half of the 20th century.

The Masterplayers of Lugano, a chamber orchestra
of 17 of Europe’s finest musicians, will perform on
Tuesday, Oct. 21.

Directed by the distinguished Swiss conductor
Richard Schumacher, the ensemble has given over
1,000 concerts in Europe and North and South America.
The group features a string section whose members
play exclusively on instruments of the old famous
Italian lutteur school — Amati, Stradivarius,
Guarnerius, and Grancico, among others.

Renaissance music will be featured on Wednesday,
Nov. 19, when Music For A While performs. Founded in
1970, Music For A While is one of America’s most ac-
claimed ensembles devoted to the performance of
Medieval and Renaissance music. The group’s three
musicians are artists-in-residence at Sarah Lawrence
College and have performed throughout the United
States and Canada.

On Tuesday, Jan. 20, Grant Johannesen, one of
America’s finest pianists, will give a solo recital. In a
career which spans 40 years, he has performed fre-
quently with the great American orchestras, being the
only soloist chosen for two tours each of the New York
Philharmonic and the Cleveland Orchestra. His many
tours abroad have prompted the U.S. State Department
to comment again and again on his superior abilities as
a cultural ambassador of the United States.

In continuing its varied program, the Concert Guild
will present Jan Degaetani, mezzo-soprano, and Gilbert
Kalish, pianist, on Tuesday, Feb. 24. Their pro-
grams, which have brought them such renown, cover
four centuries of music. They have performed together
for 20 years.

Ending the season on Tuesday, Mar. 17, will be the
Stradivari String Quartet. No strangers to Lexington,
the quartet has performed in Lexington on several oc-
casions following extended international tours.

Professor does Maine research

Gerard M. Doyon, professor of art history at
Washington and Lee University, spent part of the sum-
mer in Maine conducting research funded by the
Museum of Art of Ogunquit on the coast of Maine.

Doyon’s research concentrated on the drawings and
paintings of Henry Strater. The results of Doyon’s work
will appear this winter in the Bulletin of the Museum of
Art of Ogunquit.

In addition to his research, Doyon also gave an il-
lustrated slide lecture at the museum. The lecture was
entitled “The Realistic Art of Henry Strater: Selected
Paintings and Drawings from 1922 to Present.”’ Doyon
organized a show of Strater’s drawings and paintings at
W&L’s duPont Gallery during the last academic year.

A graduate of St. Anselm's College with a Ph.D. from
Boston University, Doyon has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1968.

 

New carrel

 

By VALERIE PIERSON
Staff Reporter

 

Many upperclassmen can recall
the days when simply placing a book
or belongings on a certain University
Library carrel meant it was claimed.
But after a number of disputes last
year over ownership of specific car-
rels, a librarian developed a system
whereby students and librarians can
determine just who has claimed
which carrel.

The new carrel-claiming system
requires a student to read and sign a
set of conditions on numbered forms
which were placed on each carrel,
according to Peggy Hays, the public
services and reference lirarian who
developed the system. With these
forms, Hays said, she can keep a
record of who uses a specific carrel.

These claim forms were placed on
every carrel in the library on the
morning of the first day of classes,
when claiming could begin. When the
rush of eager carrel-claimers
entered the library, they were in-
structed to fill out the forms and
return them to the librarians.

According to Hays, a crowd of
more than 50 students, both up-
perclassmen and freshmen, were
waiting outside the library’s doors to
claim a carrel. Freshman Gena
Hauser, who was in the crowd, said
when the doors were opened, people
ran in search of the carrel of their
choice. By 8.a.m., she said, it was dif-
ficult to determine which carrels, if
any, were still available.

Hays said that there was no need
for the morning’s rush and that there
were over 200 carrels left unclaimed
the next day.

 

 

The conditions on the claim form
restrict the freedom some students
exercised with carrels in the past.
Moving the carrels is prohibited and
the carrels must be used somewhat
frequently to show that the carrel is
being put to use. If a carrel looks as if
it has not been used in three con-
secutive weeks, it may be assigned to
someone else, Hays said.

Several problems arose in the first
few days under the new carrel-claim-
ing policy. Some students picked up
the forms from the carrels but failed

rules enacted

; 2

 

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi
Erick Rock and Jane Lee Joyce study in their carrels.

to return them to the librarians.
These carrels may have been assign-
ed to another student.

Some upperclassmen did not know
about the new policy despite the
notices on each floor of the library.
Heated arguments arose when these
upperclassmen found students work-
ing at the carrels they thought they
had claimed. Many of these argu-
ments occurred Monday night, when
the day librarians had left without
giving instructions to the night
librarian.

Student interest fuels W&L Jazz Ensemble

 

By EVELYN M. FAHY
Staff Reporter

 

The Jazz Ensemble is a little-
known, but nevertheless vital music
organization here on campus. The
ensemble plays all types of jazz,
ranging from Aaron Copeland to Diz-
zie Gillespie.

Formed about 15 years ago, the

Jazz Ensemble’s membership sur-
vives on student interest. In the past,
the group has had as many as 22
musicians. Currently, the Jazz
Ensemble has, according to director
Robert Stewart, many excellent
musicians, but is in need of a bass
player and brass players.

Those interested should sit in on
rehearsals, which are held every
Thursday at 5 p.m. on the third floor
of duPont Hall.

While no firm schedule has been

prepared for the coming season, the
Jazz Ensemble will play at Parents’
Weekend and will most likely per-
form at the Robert E. Lee birthday
dance held at the Greenbrier in White
Sulfur Springs, W.Va.

In addition, the group traditionally
travels during spring break. These
travels have included Caribbean
cruises, trips to Miami and an ap-
pearance at the 1984 World’s Fair in
New Orleans. The Jazz Ensemble
also holds concerts on campus.

 

Did you find that

having only beer

and no liquor had

any effect on the

fraternity parties

this past weekend?

Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
MATHEW HORRIDGE

 

Jessica Reynolds, sophomore,
Tennessee: ‘“‘No. You can get just
as drunk on beer as you can on li-
quor. I think people drank more
beer to compensate for the lack of
liquor.”

 

 

TALKBACK

 

Doug Mullenix, sophomore,
Missouri: ‘Yes it did. I think peo-
ple got just as drunk, just not
sickening drunk, not throwing-up
drunk. There was more control.
Having liquor makes Rush more
fun ”

 

Melanie

Brent, freshman,
Maryland: “‘I think it would have
been more fun if there had been
alcohol.”

 

John Scannapieco, senior, Tex-
as: ‘Not having liquor at the par-
ties took out some of the exotic-
ness of the Rush parties. Usually
you have Bahamas parties or
those kinds of parites. It put the
fraternities on an equal level,
because now one can’t go out and
spend a lot on liquor.”’

 

 

Sloan Farrell,
sylvania: ‘‘No. I didn’t find any
difference atall.”

junior, Penn-

 

 
Page 4,

The Ring-tum Phi, September 25, 1986

 

  

 

 

ae

 

 

Andersen. Today, there are more |GENERAL NOTES|
he ot e than 300 Comfort Inns throughout the
United States. The Washington and Lee Row- This first meeting of the year is discuss topics for articles and the federal, state, or local levels are
- 2 2 , lc indivl i ill its fi i a i icati invited to apply for a 1987 Harry S.
Each Comfort Inn is individually ing Club will have its first meeting an informal get-acquainted ses parameters of the publication and pply for.
Conti owned, although still a part of the of the school year tomorrow. It is _ sion. New members are invited! will also cover the process of Truman Scholarship for outstand-
Quality chain. The Lexington Com- important that all interested at- selecting an associate editor. The ing U.S. students with potential
= fort Inn is owned by Namron Inns, tend. The meeting willbeheldin 828 ====—= meeting will be on Tuesday, Sept. leadership ability to prepare for
The Comfort Inn has 80 rooms, Ine., which also owns Best-Western the 500 level classroom in the gym 30, 7:00 p.m. in Parmly Hall, third careers in government service.
making it one of the larger hotels in Inns in the area. Namron has bought at5p.m. All are welcome, On September 30 there will be a floor lecture hall. W&L can nominate three stu-
the area. All of the Lexin hotels several hotelsfrombothchainsinthe | | oo party in the GHQ for all under- dents for the 1987 competition.
— mos in surrounding a _ — area: Best-Western Keydet, Lex- esti ee ; ae dae ae phot -<---- The scholarship award covers
veen Hooked for Parents Weekenc ington: Comfort Inn, Lexington; irst meeting 0! year 0 :30 p.m. w ani i igi xpenses U to 500
since early August eral Inn, Roanoke: fone: the Washington and Lee Film party where the women can meet ID Photos to be taken in Rm 108 cacdue Gesu oy sage
Inn, Troutville; Best-Western, Rad- Society will take place at 7:15 on each other and discuss what they of the University Center Friday year, and two years of graduate
The Comfort Inn is part of the ford, and others. Tuesday, September 30 in the want, need or don’t want to go on Sept. 26 from %12 a.m. and 1-4 study
three-tier Quality Inn chain which is Alumni House. The Film Society here at W&L. All women are p.m. ID cards will be returned at a :
composed of Quality Inns. Comfort Namron Inns Inc. found the Best- is a group of students and faculty strongly urged to come. later date. Interested students should see
Inns and Quality Royale Hotels. The Western Keydet to be so successful eae ee Oe ge eee ee Dean Lewis G. John, Truman
idea for Comfort Inns was conceived _ that it decided to build a Comfort Inn (23S Se ee Scholarship Faculty Represen-
four years ago with the goal of inthesamecity. Films and in the presentation of Washington and Lee sopho- tative or Dean H. Thomas Wil-
creating a modern chain of hotels So far, the new hotel has been doing such films here on the W&L cam- The Journal of Science will have mores interested in a career in liams, Associate Dean of the Col-
with “all-new, comfortable lodgings excellent business and is expected to pus. an organizational meeting to government service at the lege, no later than October 10.
with lower prices according to continue, Andersen said.
OoOoOoooONNoOoOoOoOoOoCoOoooDooOoOooOooo0ooo0oo000000000

    
   
  

 

Lexington Lighting
& Electrical Supply

Pipe Den

DON FRAVEL G

Supervisor

  

r wo ®
wr XK
' Arway Kirby

49304438

       
    
  
  

112 Statler Square
Staunton, VA 24401
703-886-3177

We specialize in pipes, custom
blended tobaccos, gourmet
coffee and teas, imported
cigarettes and cigars.

New Arrival!!

Track Lites - for your dorm or
apartment. Bring this ad in and receive
10% Discount
Other items in stock:

Study lamps, lampshades, extension
cords, light bulbs, telephones

and accessories.
ONO00OCoOoO00000O00000000000000000

Sharing

on sale.

Hoodoo o00000o0o0000000000000000
Ooo0oo000000000000200000000008

OO0O0000000

 

 

 

 

NOW WE CAN DEVELOP |
AND PRINT YOUR FILM IN ‘
JUST ONE HOUR! ‘
Overnight is too long to wait =|’

for your photographs. Now ‘
you can have them back in

Point Cards just ONE HOUR. With sparkling color prints made | ,
on the finest Kodak paper. All that, and i
we can Save you money, too. Bring in 48 |.

Now Accepted your film today for top quality, on-site

 

service—disc, 110, 126 and 135. 1.

Two quality Colorwatch prints Fast Slide Processing ;

or the price of one.

Try our daily nighttime

12 exposure $3 66 24 exposure $729 and daytime specials. Now Available :
(24 prints) veoees (46 prints) .. 2.32... :
15 exposure 36e

(30 prints) ves $479 (72 cia Coe een eeresaars $999 ey me eo i

Photographist - Frame Shop - Kis Mini Lab
7 North Main Street
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

WE WANT YOU
TO PHOTOGRAP

PARTY PICS!

C-41 process only fo
pires 9/30

r Dise & 35mm, full frame. Special prices for 110, 126. Offer ex-

" Bierer’s Pharmacy

1N. Main St., Lexington

SOME COLLEGE COURSES
ARE MORE EXCITING
THAN OTHERS.

How many college courses
teach you how to shoot the rapids?
Or rappel a cliff? Or find your
way outof a forest with nothing but
a map and compass to guide you?

At least one does— Army
ROTC.

And you could find your-
self doing any one of a number
of exciting adventure training
activities like these in the Army
ROTC program.

Activities that develop your
stamina. And your self-confi-
dence.

But adventure training isn't
the only way you develop.

You'll ae learn the basics of
leadership and management by
attending ROTC classes, along
with the subjects in your major.

And you'll be excited
about two other benefits Army
ROTC offers. Financial assis-
tance. Up to $1,000 a year for
your last two years of Army
ROTC. And the opportunity to
graduate with both a degree
and a commission in today's
Army —including the Army
Reserve and Army National
Guard.

* Night Special 8 p.m.-11 p.m. through Oct.
31. Milk Shakes 70°

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Photographers needed at local campuses this semester!
Campus Manager needed also!

 

Great Money!
Fun Time!

(Need good 35mm camera & strobe)

CALL TODAY
OR WRITE:

MATHIS STUDIO
Attn: Randy Mathis
7124 Forest Hill Avenue
Richmond, VA 23225
Phone (804) 320-0580

CONTACT CPT RANDY HILL,
463-8485, FOR INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

i TSR

Di i a a aaa aia ae aes,
sane

—=
i

—

4

:

t) |
i DAVID EMRICH

 

* Last weekend the water polo team
, |, took a road trip of sorts, and,
Y although it wasn’t a complete suc-
| ¥ cess, head coach Page Remillard did
4 » not regret any aspect of the weekend.
At the Southeastern Varsity Tour-
; Mament in Annapolis, Md., the
+ Generals went 1 and 3, but mere
| digits in the won and lost columns
” don’t reveal the full story.
« W&L took Brown, the 10th ranked
team in the nation, into double over-
. time before succumbing by a score of
15-12. Compare that with the score of
‘ last year’s meeting of the two teams
~ (W&L lost 22-2) and you can see why
Remillard was excited about the
2 ¢ weekend's events.
, “There's a big difference between
: 9 this year and lasi, I think that we're a
much better team,” said Remillard.
: d “But,” he added, “‘we’re not used to
_ that yet, we still have to learn to bea
} ie team.”

i

|r By

|, Sports Editor
|

ho

va

 

 

 

* Remillard explained himself, ‘It’s
( like when you get a new car, it takes
,| ®a couple of days to get used to the
| brakes and steering.” He continued,
s “Its like that with us, the athletes
;have worked hard to improve but
‘were just not used to the level at
which we're playing now.”’
({ This was evident by the incon-
,/Sistency of the General’s perfor-
=mances this past weekend. Although
(Fthey played Brown tough and beat

   

(By JIM LAKE
‘ Staff Reporter

if Washington and Lee head football

) oach Gary Fallon is optimistic
“) tabout. the upcoming game against
3 peu College, despite the Generals’
e

  
  

 

son-opening loss to Emory and
nry.
6 When asked about the 31-9 loss at
Wilson Field, Fallon said that both he
and the players have reviewed films
Geir game and believe that many of
ir mistakes can be corrected. He
called the first quarter of that game
“about as impressive as [that of] any
_pffensive team going into the first
game, or just about any game.”’
' “We totally dominated”’ early on,

SPORTS

Polo just misses upset

unranked Harvard 9-1, they lost to
No. 11 Navy, 15-5, and to No. 15 Iona,
10-4.

Against Navy, their first game in
the tournament, Remillard said that
the team “did not come ready to
play.”’ He said that the team did not
get into Annapolis until 40 minutes
before match time. But he added, “I
had no problem with that because we
stayed [at W&L] until classes were
done.”

In the Iona match, despite the loss,
the team showed marked improve-
ment over last year’s performance
when they were beaten soundly, 17-2.

“There will be peaks and valleys
for a while,” said Remillard. ‘‘But,
that’s what a young team is going to
be like. It’s my job to flatten out those
peaks and valleys at their highest
point. :2 J

Looking ahead to this weekend, the
Generals will be hosting the Virginia
State Championships. At the tourna-
ment will be W&L’s chief rival, the
University of Richmond.

Last year, Richmond defeated the
Generals 13-4 in the championship
game of this same tournament.

“Richmond is a team with mostly
seniors,’ said Remillard. ‘‘We have
a lot of respect for them, it’s a big
rivalry, but we’re still good friends.”’

But Remillard added, ‘I think it
will be Richmond vs. W&L in the
championship game.” He continued,
“We're a much improved team, we
can hardly wait to play Richmond.”’

said Fallon, pointing out that the
Wasps had only five plays from
scrimmage in the entire first period.
“Our offense has got to feel very good
about being able to do that against a
good defense.”’

Fallon also praised the Generals’
aggressive defensive effort, noting
that the Wasps fumbled six times.
Fallon observed that, were it not for
“a few great runs” by Wasp back
Sandy Rogers, the score could have
been considerably closer.

“The score wasn’t really indicative
of how well we played, and I hope our
{players} can rebound from the
loss,”’ said Fallon. ‘‘You have to put
that loss behind you...and get ready
for your next opponent.’’

Looking ahead to this week’s game

The Ring-tum Phi, September 25, 1986

 

 

 

Shades on sports

by Mike Shady
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

 

Page Remillard

allon optimistic as team heads

at Centre, Fallon respects the Col-
onels on both sides of the football.
Centre lost only one of last year’s of-
fensive starters to graduation. Their
offensive scheme is based on the op-
tion, said Fallon, with a sprint draw
and an occasional pass off of play ac-
tion.

Defensively, Fallon said the Col-
onels remind him of Emory and
Henry. “‘They are not quite as large,
and maybe not quite as fast, but they
do swarm to the ball.” They are a lit-
tle young, he added, but ‘‘have done
well against both of their opponents
so far.’’ Centre defeated Rhodes,
14-9, in their season opener and
crushed Maryville last week, 36-14.

Last year, the Generals defeated
Centre 7-3, scoring the only touch-

, | Soccer shutout three consecutive times

 

 

es this past weekend at the North:
, y' ‘€arolina Wesleyan Tournament. The
- * Generals were shut out in both

+ games, losing 1-0 to East Carolina on
‘Saturday and 40 to host North

Phone: 463-3614

eee Ee

Place ads

US 11 North

sees

Natty Bo tong necks—case............
Oympia Cola 6 px.—1202. cans ....

 

®
bg
4
4
5
Ed
i .
| | i Cigarettes pack..........
=
*
i
®
®
7
A

Carolina Wesleyan on Sunday.

“Our offense may take some time
to become productive. We played
well in Shenandoah, [a 3-i win last
Wed.] but seemed to wilt a little in
the heat in North Carolina,” said
Piranian.

“Against East Carolina we played
well but one mistake beat us,” con-

“RRR RRR RRR HHH HH
*

Lat a ee eae

tinued Piranian. ‘I also thought we
played well in the first half of the
North Carolina Wesleyan game.”

The General traveled to Mary
Washington yesterday and came
away with a 3-0 loss. W&L returns
for their home opener Saturday,
Sept. 27th against the University of
the South at 1:30PM.

to Centre

down of the game on a 25-yard pass
on fourth down. ‘‘Little did we know
at the time that that was going to be
enough” to win the game, said
Fallon.

HASHMARKS-—Senior __ Kevin
Weaver is recovering from a deep
deltoid muscle pull, which has
restricted his arm movement
somewhat. But Fallon says that no
contact and extensive treatment last
week enabled the Generals’ primary
ball carrier to be back in uniform on
Monday and working hard to prepare
for Centre. Fallon looks forward to a
good ball game on Oct. 4, when the
Generals will return home to face
Randolph-Macon. The Yellow Jack-
ets won their first game, defeating
Swarthmore 41-13.

CORRECTION)

In last week’s cross country ar-
ticle Michael Freidman and
Michael Watson were said to be
running with the team this year.
They are not. The Phi regrets the
error.

 

 

 

Repossess the Fridge

There comes a time when someone must be put in their place. You
know what I’m talking about. That certain situation in which someone
becomes just too cool for their own good.

Defensive end William Perry (ah yes, the Fridge) of the Chicago
Bears is that certain someone who comes to my mind. The scene is St.
Louis’ Busch Memorial Stadium and the Cards and Bears are fighting
it out ina PRESEASON game. The Fridge has just put the clamps on
the Cardinal’s quarterback Neil Lomax. Cool, a sack for Fridge and
some high fives on the way back to the huddle. But hold on just a sec-
ond. Perry is not content with holding Lomax until the whistle blows.
Instead, he twirls the defenseless QB in his arms and (get ready
Hulkamania fans) body slams Lomax onto (or should we say ‘‘into’’?)
the artificial turf.

What's that you say? What are you Shades, a wimp? Don’t you know
that football is a violent game played by violent people? The fans want
to see bodies flying and helmets crashing and players smashing each
other into oblivion.

Well, I agree (not that I’m a wimp but that football is not a sport for
the timid). I get fired up just like the next guy when someone gets
knocked on his butt. However, what Perry did brings back to mind the
Jack Tatum-Darry] Stingley tragedy from a few years back (for those
of you who have forgotten, look in Webster’s under ‘“‘paralyzed’’).

Take this other example into consideration. Two weeks ago, the
Bears and Philadelphia were tied late in the fourth quarter. Eagles’
QB Ron Jaworski faded back, passed the ball and then got smothered
by the Fridge. The result? No flag; Jaworski doesn’t know what city
he’s in; and Chicago wins in OT, 13-10.

I used to like William Perry. There’s a certain sense of anticipation
in wondering if the Fridge will line up at running back, receiver, or
even QB (head coach Mike Ditka has entertained the idea — see Super
Bowl XX). When he concentrates on playing football, Perry’s size,
strength and speed make him one of the dominating defensive linemen
in the game. But it’s when I see him shoving, taunting and pointing
fingers at opposing players that I’m not impressed.

It is fun to laugh at his weight, his nickname and that Letterman-like
grin. He has risen from being labled a ‘‘wasted draft choice” to
becoming one of the most recognized and admired athletes around. I
enjoy viewing him in advertisements and on TV talkshows, but I would
much rather see him slamming down McDLT’s than other human be-
ings.

Cheap shots and unnecessary roughness are just that; unnecessary.
Rules are rules and are there for a reason. It is those few in-
dividuals who think they are above the rules who can ruin the fun for
the rest of us. NFL football is a dangerous game and players get hurt
every week; but it would be a shame if someone was seriously injured
because of the overaggressiveness of another.

When William Perry first arrived on the scene, the media and the
fans thought the Fridge was the best thing that could happen for the
sport, and I agree. Now I’m not so sure.

NOTES: NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle fined Perry $2,500 for his
unnecessary slam of Lomax, small change for a guy who grosses over
1.5 million a year. I wonder what Rozelle would have done had Lomax
been laid up in a hospital bed with spinal injuries?... From Sports Il-
lustrated: University of Georgia offers a course entitled ‘Psychology
of Satisfaction.’’ According to some athletes who have taken the class,
you have to only show up once or twice in order to obtain an A: thus the
title... A Philadelphia newspaper listed the NFL teams in alphabetical
order along with their preseason roster cuts. The list went something
like “‘Minnesota, New Orleans, Oakland?”’... Another tidbit from the
wonderful world of sports journalism. A Washington Post sportswriter
recently wrote a story on Walter Payton and ended one of Payton’s
quotes with ‘‘said Sweetness.’’ Give mea break...

 

Alvin Bennis

Please stop and look over our Fall merchandise, such as...
Sero Shirts * Duckheads Pants ¢ Bass and Sperry Top
Siders Shoes ¢ Sweaters ¢ Woolrich Shirts and Outerwear

Izod Shirts and Sweaters ¢ Sport Coats and Suits «

W&L Belts and Ties.

Choice

MasterCard

 

 

LIME KILN ARTS

 

Student Charges

 

Being a Marine Corps Officer can open the door to opportunities
you may have thought were beyond your reach. It helped Marine
Officer Charles Bolden become a NASA astronaut. And if you're
willing to make the commitment, it could help you also. You can
get started while you're in college with our Platoon Leaders

& Juniors train in one ten-week summer session and earn
more than $2100
& Free civilian flying lessons
® A starting salary of more than $18,000
Immediately upon graduation you could become a Marine

Sr

Officer. It's your choice.
Maybe you're the kind of
man we're looking for.

 

® $100. month while in school
& Freshmen and Sophomores train
during two six-week summer ses-

si We want yo
(o go as bar

presents

lin the Phi

 

 

RO ADSIDE THE ATER’ S sions each paying more than $1200 Were looking fora kw good men,
. LEXINGTON eee AS YOU can.
|; ists cana RED FOX/
| f WELCOME CLASS AGENTS! SECOND F GI .

THIS SATURDAY ONLY,
SEPTEMBER 27

aL ii i ne ae
a ean ah TT ay Mae aia ae a ge aa ae ee

|
appdgaWo |

Naame”

8:00 p.m. at the Kiln

 

10% OFF

——— RT Ne

 

’ Art Supplies ‘,..genuine Americana at its best.’’
' Las Vegas Sun
: STUDENTS!! Show

.|, | ‘your W&L 1I.D. and ‘...the most strikingly original show...”’

jo |) receive 10% off
‘\+ |) artsupplies at
“re J.B. Office Supply

San Francisco Chronicle

‘*...with no pretensions whatever, but with

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'|* | 93 West Washington St. talent and charm.”’
ole e
Z a The New Yorker
7 7 — For information call 463-3074. Admission $9.00. oe
eer eer Berger at the University Co-op on Sept 30th.

See Capt.

 

 
 

 

‘BACK PAGE

 

See it to believe

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Got this record here by these guys
named the Casuals. Seems there’s
this fella in the band, calls himself
Johnny Sportcoat or something. Spif-
fy little name they got: Johnny Sport-
coat and the Casuals. Or is it The
Casuals, featuring Johnny Sport-
coat?

Don’t matter, really. I seen these
guys live a buncha times. Good band.
Had a great time — drank a little
beer, talked to some chicks, even got
to dance with a few of ’em. Ole
Johnny Sportcoat always sez, ‘‘Hey,
the drunker you get, the better we
sound!’’ Some bands are just like
that, you know?

Now this record of theirs, ‘‘State-
wide Joyride,” is something else en-
tirely. See, the first time I listened to
it, I knew there was something
wrong; thing was, I just couldn’t
seem to place it. These fellas can
play all right — hey, Bryan Yates’s
about as good a guitarist as yer gon-
na find, anywhere. No, that wasn’t it.
The songs weren’t all that bad, either
— nothing that’s gonna earn ’em a
Nobel, you know, but nifty enuff, I
guess. It just sounded like there was
something, someone... missing...

Yup, that was the whole problem.
There was no crowd, you see? No

beer to drink, no girls to talk to,
nobody to dance with. I mean, these
guys need a roomful of people to
sound really good. Listening to this
album is kinda like listening to MTV
with the picture turned off.

Okay, what about the songs, right?
Weil, like I said, there ain’t anything
wrong with ‘em. It’s just that I kept
getting the feeling I’d heard ’em all
somewhere else. “Under Pressure’
is the best original 'cos it rocks the
best. Second in line is one called
“Man Smart (Woman Smarter)”’ —
which oughta make a coupla W&L
fellas squirm.

What do the songs sound like? Aw,
I don’t know... Kinda like Elvis
Costello in a good mood, I guess. Or
Buddy Holly after a coupla drinks.
Real classic Doo Wop, fraternity par-
ty stuff.

So, that’s about all I can say about
“Statewide Joyride.’’ I would have
really liked to have fallen in love with
this album on account of I really
get a bang out of the Casuals. All this
means, of course, is that the record is
not nearly as good as the real thing.
Now, if ya get a chance to see these
guys live, don’t miss ‘em. Johnny
Sportecoat can milk a crowd like
nobody’s business. Put simply, the
Casuals are one terrific rock and roll
band. Ya just gotta see it to believe it
is all. Some bands are just like that,
you know?

Refrigerators
For Rent

New Hotpoint®
Refrigerators

Dorm Size

$42 Per Academic Year
463-3622

 

 

 

 

SINCE [941

463-3622

 

CLEANERS

 

See us for all
your alteration needs.

7N. Jefferson

corner

 

 

 

 

 

 

the office listed below.
DATE:

 

     

Pepperdine University :
School of Law

wishes to announce that an admission officer will be on campus
to speak with anyone interested in pursuing a legal education.
To arrange for an interview or to attend a group session, contact

Tuesday, November 11, 1986
CONTACT: Career Planning & Placement Office

———

—

 

 

 

   

 

By Perry Hayes

Saints ‘n sinners

The Little Saints, a popular local new music group, played a smoldering
set last night at the GHQ. Because of fraternity Rush dates, the crowd was
made up primarily of girls, even though all juniors were admitted free.

e Ri

The Ring-tum Phi, September 25, 1986

CALENDAR

Thursday, September 25
5:45 p.m, — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Opening Day Picnic. Sign up in

Room 306, Howe Hall.

Class Agents Weekend

duPont Gallery. Public invited.

Center.

mission charge.

University Center.

 

8 p.m. — LECTURE: “Can the Constitution Survive the Third Cen-
tury?” Norman Ornstein, Phi Beta Kappa, visiting scholar. Moot
Courtroom, Lewis Hall. Public invited.

Friday, September 26
2 p.m. — GALLERY TALK: John Borden Evans will discuss his paint-

ings with students, duPont Gallery.
7 p.m. — RECEPTION for John Borden Evans. Refreshments served,

Public invited.

Tuesday, September 30
4 p.m. —MEETING: Washington and Lee KAYPRO users. Room 25,
Robinson Hall. For information, contact Ken Lambert (8809)

Wednesday, October 1
7 p.m. — RESUME WRITING WORKSHOP: Room 109, University

9 p.m. — CONCERT: Spiedel, Goodrich, and Lille GHQ Tavern. Ad-
Thursday, October 2
3 p.m. — WORKSHOP: Identifying Career Alternatives. Room 109,

4-6p.m.— University Women’s Group Annual Tea at the Lee House.

 

 

 

g-tum Phi

Folk tale at

STAFF REPORTS

 

 

 

THE FUTURE IS IN
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

A representative will be on campus
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1986
i OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
GLENDALE. ARIZONA 85306

to discuss
Interviews may be scheduled at

GRADUATE STUDY
CAREER DEVELOPMENT & PLACEMENT CENTER

THUNDERBIRD

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL

 

 

  
 

 

A BEAUTIFUL BEGINNING
TD HEALTHY-LOOKING ENDS,

Tame those ends that have been
abused by perms, colour, pollu-
tants or the sun with THICK-
ENDS" a leave-on conditioner
that contains special proteins to
give ends renewed thickness,
pliability and shine.

Caper’s in.

25 N. Main St.
Lexington, Va.
463-2566

Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-9 p.m.
Sat., 10a.m.-2 p.m.

 

> :

SEBASTIAN

Thick-Ends is a trademark of Sebastian International
© 1986 Sebastian international, inc. Woodland Hills, CA 91367

 

If folk tales - and good ones at that -
are your forte, then don’t miss the
story of “‘Red Fox/Second Hangin’,”’
to be performed under the stars this
Saturday in a one-night-only produc-
tion at Lime Kiln Arts’ Theatre. Show
time is 8 p.m.

Red Fox was an outlaw, lawman,
preacher, ladies’ man and maybe
murderer. For the past decade his
story, told by Don Baker, Gary
Slemp and Frankie Taylor, has cap-
tured the imagination of audiences
all over America — from tiny towns
with funny names like Grundy and
Slap Out to huge cities with not-so-
funny names like New York, Wash-
ington and Las Vegas.

Don Baker, Lime Kiln’s producing
director who co-authored, directed
and acts in the show, said the show is
coming to town by popular demand.

“There are a lot of people who
wanted to see it who thought it would
be back this summer,’’ Baker said.

Lime Kiln

“I’ve always wanted to perform the
show outdoors in the fall, when the
clear stars and crackle of wood
smoke in the air carry you back to
the days when families gathered
around the campfires and stoves to
listen and tell tales of long ago.”’
“Red Fox/Second Hangin’ ”’ tells
the story of Doc Taylor, a relative of
Baker’s who was the second man

 

,

gli

sg ll

ever hung in Wise County. The .

meticulously-researched story draws
upon musty old court records,
photographs, newspapers and the
recollections of old-timers to weave
the story not only of Red Fox, but
also of a vanishing way of life in the
mountains.

“The show casts the same kind of
breathless spell that a masterful
teller of ghost tales can induce,” said
the Atlanta Journal.

The New York Times said it is, ‘‘as
stirring for its historical detective
work as for the vanishing art of fron-
tier yarnspinning.’’ -

A limited number of seats is avail-
able for the show. Admission is $9.
For tickets, call 463-3074.

 

siemens BOE We

WILLSON-
WALKER

 

 

   

You mean

ts.3 DADDY LIED?

 

 

 

 

if { the diamond begins to wear into a chisel-like point...a point that can
| ! : gouge and permanently damage your records, before you even know
| it’s happening!
All Diamond needles are sold at 25% off list price every day
Some Questions Q: How do 1 go about replacing my
needle?
n nswers. A: Flip Side has a complete line of
And Answers:

: Q: I don’t know how many hours of play-

ing time my diamond needle has now.
When should I replace it?

: Now. The cheapest insurance you will
ever provide for your valued record
collection investment is a brand new
needle before it’s too late.

: keep my records and needle clean,
but I’m starting to hear some minor
distortion, Will a new needle correct
that?

: Sorry. If you are hearing distortion,
that record is already damaged. A new
needle will prevent damage to your
other records.

obi

YY <ioKi i:
4

>

Diamonds Are Not
Forever

Did you know that the tiny tip of your phonograph needle can exert over
50,000 pounds of pressure per square inch on the grooves E
of your records? And phonograph needles - even diamond tipped needles
- are not “‘forever’’.
The useful life of a diamond needle is 400 to 600 playing hours, or about
| : 1200 to 1800 plays of a 33% R.P.M. record. After that amount of time,

FLIP

25 W. Nelson

463-1944

 

SIDE

© Your old needle.

© The brand name and model number of
your cartridge (the part into which the
needle fits).

© The brand name and model number of
your stereo. a

© The brand name and model number of
your last replacement needle.

HOUSE

Restaurant =

&D>

 

aa |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ly

 

Enjoy our continuing 1986
Wednesday dinner.

Prime and Wine Special

8 oz. prime beef rib and glass of house white or red wine. House
salad, fresh vegetable, potato or rice included.

2 dinners for $19.86

 

 

 

 

Reservations requested for dinner
Closed Mondays

30 N. Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-3020

 

 

 

 

Pfanstiehl and other Diamond
needles. Since there are over 900
varieties of phonograph needles
available, you will need to provide us
with information to insure our finding
the proper replacement for you. The
more of the following you can bring to
Flip Side with you, the better:

3

(iii

 

 

1a hi 4
PUTUMAYO

22 West Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

LEXINGTON

we’re ready!

For our fall habit with:

Happy Putumayo and Organically
Grown for school.

Adorable Norman dresses for parties.

Beautiful Ha: ve’

Benard and Sal Antony

suits and dresses for the office and

after hours.

Incredible IB Diffusion and Henry
Grethel sweaters, sweater skirts and
pants for football games.

 

Terrific Pour Le Sport leather jackets
pants, and skirts for college weekends.

—

‘
