.

  

 

 

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 25

Winning album
U2 regains edge
with Joshua Tree

 
     

*;

. rs
“3 WA.

 

Winning teams

Track and tennis
are ODAC CHAMPS

 

[Your Shipwreck Weather

 

Weather will be good
for your constitution

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Che King-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

APRIL 30, 1987

 

Tsuxma to perform
Japanese Noh theater

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

The meeting of East and West
comes alive in Lexington and at W&L
this weekend when Tsuxma, a
Japanese Noh Theatre troupe, ar-
rives in Lexington for the second stop
of its first concert tour in the United
States.

Composed of six professionals,
Tsuxma will present a performance
at 8 p.m., Saturday in the Lime Kiln
Theatre in Lexington. The troupe will
present a free lecture/demonstration
at 8 p.m. Sunday in Lee Chapel.

There is an admission charge for
the Lime Kiln performance.

Noh Theatre, dating back to the
14th century, is the world’s oldest
professional theatre tradition still be-
ing performed. Despite its age, it is
not unlike Western theatre in its use
of musical, dramatic, and dance
elements.

“There is a major difference,
however, in that, by stressing the
music and dance involved with per-
formance, Noh tends to be less
realistic than contemporary

drama,” notes Minor Rogers, pro-
fessor of religion at Washingtor and
Lee.

According to Rogers, Noh’s
avoidance of reality reflects on the
Buddhist influence in Chinese and
Japanese popular and _ classical
dance. “The beauty striven for in
Noh is not an objective aesthetic
quality, but one which can only be
achieved through the viewer’s par-
ticipation and appreciation of the
symbols,’ said Rogers.

“The beautiful costumes and
delicate masks are designed not to
convey reality, but to add to the emo-
tional impact of the actions,’’ Rogers
said. ‘‘Pure emotions are the heart
and soul of Noh.”

The activity in Noh plays largely
involves dancing accompanied by
singing of chants by a chorus and in-
strumental music performed by the
Noh Hayashi orchestra. Tragic loves
and heroic deeds of the ancient past
are the subjects of the songs and
chants.

The instrumental music of Noh is
called “hayashi’’ and consists of a

C1 See Noh, page 3

 

lL) Se

Tsuxma member performs.

   

Rockin’ Rick highlights the Stones

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Assignments editor

 

“GIDAWFFF!!”

Although many people use the
phrase ‘‘get off,” no one growls it out
quite like gravel-voiced Rick Pierce.
And for the next four Saturdays,
while most Washington and Lee
students are still asleep or just stag-
gering out of bed, ‘‘Rockin’ Rick”’
will be gettin’ off in a big way.

Pierce will be capping off four
years on the staff of WLUR-FM,
W&L’s campus radio station, with a
series of Saturday morning specials.

From 8:30 until noon this Saturday,
Pierce will broadcast a 25th anniver-
sary tribute to the Rolling Stones.

 

GENERAL
NOTES

 

Shreds

“Confettis’’ Spring formal
tickets will go on sale May 4 from
10. a.m, to 12:30p.m.

Get work

Any student interested in a fall
term internship with the Presi-
dential Advance Office in
Washington, D.C., should come by
room 108 of the Commerce School
any weekday between 2 and 3 p.m.
before Wednesday, May 6.

Get dressed

NEXT THURSDAY & FRIDAY
(MAY 7 & 8) those who ordered
Fancy Dress t-shirts or those who
want extra ones may pick them up
in front of the co-op between 10
and 2. Remember, it is the 7th and
8th, and this is your last chance to
get what you ordered.

Charleston

Washington and Lee’s popular
singing group, Southern Comfort,
will perform a medley of tunes
from the Roaring Twenties with a
newly formed pop ensemble from
Hollins College Monday, May 4 in
Lee Chapel.

The Hollins group, which is
under the direction of Oscar Mc-
Cullough, will perform a number
of selections alone in addition to
the joint medley ‘‘Twentiana.”
Members of Southern Comfort
will also sing a number of songs
from their own repertoire.

Both groups invite the public to
attend.

 

 

 

1 hh AMIE Ute DAE Bae ss vusaatenperntn ate Bn s

And for the following three Satur-
days, from 9 til noon, he’ll be deejay-
ing a countdown of the top 92 rock ‘n’
roll hits ever.

The Stones special will be a
chronological mix of music and talk,
with much of the emphasis on the
early years, 1963-71. Pierce has the
show all scripted, although he ex-
pects to ad-lib much of it.

Considering his extensive
knowledge of the Stones, Pierce pro-
bably could ad-lib the whole show.
Red-haired Rick has been a loyal
Mick Jagger fan since he was a stu-
dent at Cumberland Valley High
School in Mechanicsburg, Pa.

He owns all the Stones’ American
releases — about 35 total — and some
imports. He has numerous books,

photos and posters. He’s seen three
Rolling Stones movies, has a collec-
tion of their videos and saw them in
concert in Philadelphia in 1981.

“Tt was just a knockout when I saw
them,” Pierce said. ‘The air was so
electric. Everybody on the field was
going wild.

“They didn’t even sound that
great,” Pierce said, but it was ex-
citing just to be there.

He said he was impressed by the
Stones’ stage show and special ef-
fects, especially compared to
another rocker he’s seen in concert
— Bruce Springsteen.

“It (Springsteen) had to be the
most boring show that I’ve seen as
far as special effects,” Pierce said.
“He stands there and sings.”’

But that doesn’t mean the Boss
won’t get any airplay when Pierce
counts down rock’s best on May 9,
May 16, and May 23. In fact, Spring-
steen is tied for number 91 with a
song that Pierce would describe only
as ‘‘very popular”’ with teens in June.

ft has been suggested to Pierce
that since WLUR operates on a fre-
quency of 91.5 megahertz, he should
play 9112 songs. Instead, he decided
on a tie for number 91, just so he
could add an extra tune.

Unlike most countdowns, Pierce’s
includes both album-oriented rock
— your Led Zeppelins and Lynyrd
Skynyrds — and pop hits by the likes
of Madonna, Michael Jackson and

© See Rockin’, page 3

Greeks will help local
charities with special week

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

 

Go Greeks! is the theme for next
week’s first annual Washington and
Lee Greek Week. The Interfraternity
Council has a series of events plan-
ned for next week that will raise
money for charity and provide the
fraternities with a chance to have a
great deal of fun.

Greek Week begins on Monday
with an “‘Oozeball”’ tournament to be
held behind the Phi Kappa Psi frater-
nity house.

What is oozeball? Well, according
to former IFC President Chris Sax-
man, it is volleyball that is played in
mud, The tournament will last two
days and will be a double-elimination
tournament. When asked about
where the idea for oozeball origi-
nated Saxman just smiled and said
he had read about it somewhere.

On Wednesday there will be a
series of bedraces_ tentatively

scheduled to be held outside of the
Woods Creek Apartments. Prizes will
be awarded to the finishers and to the
team with the best design.

A double-elimination softball tour-
nament will be held Thursday after-
noon, Saxman explained that in order
for the tournament to be finished in
one day four fields will be used at
once.

Thursday evening there will be a
concert at the Huntley. Pavilion
featuring the Limit and Skip Castro.
The party is being billed as a toga
party and beer will be served.

The IFC is offering incentives for
people to wear togas. Fraternity
members who wear togas will get in-
to the concert for free. Fraternity
members who do not wear togas will
be charged a $5 admission fee.

Those who do not belong to frater-
nities but do wear togas must pay $5.
Non-fraternity members who go sans
toga will pay $10 to get in.

On Friday and Saturday the frater-
nities will take turns soliciting funds
for the United Way and the Lexington

Completion

Gaines Hall is expected to be finished by the fall

By MARGARET PIMBLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Despite a harsh winter and near-
flooding over spring break, construc-
tion of Gaines Hall should be com-
pleted in plenty of time for next
year’s residents, according to Frank
Parsons, the assistant to the presi-
dent.

The new residence hall at the cor-
ner of Washington and Nelson streets
should be completed by July 31, Par-
sons said.

““As of two weeks ago, the contrac-
tor felt the project was running three
weeks behind schedule because of the

(eta ana SRE ena Re

snow and other weather considera-
tions,’’ Parsons said.

Parsons said he sat in on a job con-
ference last Thursday among the
general contractor, J.M. Turner and
Associates of Salem, and the various
subcontractors working on the build-
ing.

“I was impressed at the conference
with the understanding and the spirit
of cooperation of the contractors and
subcontractors,”’ Parsons said.

The companies were aware of the
need for the building to be completed
on schedule and expected to make
the deadline, Parsons said.

“They know of no reason, barring
unforeseen disaster, why Gaines Hall

ee

shelter for the homeless.

On Monday, May 11, the IFC will
sponsor a golf tournament at the Lex-
ington Golf and Country Club in order
to raise money for the American
Cancer Society.

Each house is sponsoring a four-
some, and a foursome will also be
sponsored by the administration,
featuring President Wilson.

The IFC has ordered T-shirts and
hopes to create a great deal of excite-
ment for the whole week. ‘The en-
thusiasm is the key to the entire
week. Hopefully, it will improve rela-
tions between fraternities and the
community and raise money for
charity while having a good time,”’
Saxman said.

The winners of all the events, in-
cluding the winners of the golf tour-
nament and the house that raises the
most money on Friday and Saturday,
will receive 17 points, the second-
place finisher 16, third place 15 and
so on. The overall points champion
will win the First Annual Washington
and Lee Greek Week Trophy.

will not be completed,”’ he said.

The residence hall will be ready for
occupancy for the fall, although some
landscaping and finishing work may
remain to be done, Parsons said.

Interior work may not be com-
pleted on the rotunda area before fall
term classes start, according to Par-
sons.

He added, however, that any work
still in progress will not disturb the
residents.

Parsons said that although the out-
side of the building is under construc-
tion, work on the interior has begun
and will continue while the exterior is
completed

In order to allow the interior work

 

Covention
will begin
on Saturday

From Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee’s mock con-
stitutional convention, believed to be
the only exercise of its kind in the
United States during the bicentennial
year of the U.S. Constitution, will
convene at 9:30 a.m. Saturday at
Warner Center.

More than 1,000 W&L students and
students from the area’s women’s
colleges are expected to participate
in the convention, The event is open
to the public.

The W&L constitutional convention
differs from other events honoring
the U.S. Constitution in that it is not a
reenactment, but an actual conven-
tion in which five different amend-
ments will be debated and voted.

Following the call to order by
Chairman Peter Bennorth, a W&L
senior from Wyckoff, N.J., and the
invocation, W&L President John D.
Wilson will deliver a welcoming ad-
dress. Fred Graham, former CBS
chief legal correspondent, will then
deliver the keynote speech at 10 a.m.

Debate on the first issue, the call
for a balanced budget amendment,
will begin at 11 a.m. John Gunn,
associate professor of economics at
W&L, will speak in faver of the
amendment; John Winfrey, pro-
fessor of economics, will speak
against the amendment. The conven-
tion will then adjourn for lunch at

 

 

St ae

12:30 p.m.

Debate on the second issue, the
right-to-life admendment, will begin
at 2 p.m. Samuel Calhoun, associate
professor of law, will speak in favor
of the amendment; Pamela Simpson,
professor of art history, will speak
against the issue.

The third issue, the states’ powers
amendment, will be debated at 3:30
p.m. Markham Pyle, a second-year
law student at W&L, will argue the
pro perspective; Mark Grunewald,
professor of law, will speak against
the amendment.

Following adjournment for dinner,
the convention will reconvene at 7
p.m. for debate on the fifth and final
issue, the Equal Rights Amendment.
Lewis LaRue, professor of law and
director of the Lewis Law Center at
W&L, will speak in favor of the
amendment; Roger Dean, associate
professor of administration, will
speak against the issue.

The convention will adjourn at 10
p.m. A concert featuring Little Saints
is scheduled for the student pavilion
following the convention.

Registration will be held Friday
from 1-4 p.m. in front of the Co-op and
in room 113 of the University Center,
and also Saturday morning, 8-9:30, in
the Warner Center. Registration is
open to both those who are already in
a delegation and those who want to
join a delegation.

 

 

 

 

George’s new coat

By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L.

“Old George’ (Washington, that is) gets a fresh coat of white paint from
Washington and Lee University buildings and grounds painters Kenneth
Swink (left) and Dennis Smith. The statue of Washington, which sits atop
Washington Hall on the Front Campus, has been painted more than 100

times.

to proceed, the underroofing is being
reinforced to prevent any rain
damage.

The main roof requires more time
to install, Parsons said, because it is
a virtually maintenance-free copper
roof that must be built by skilled
workers.

Parsons said that another reason
the building appears less complete is
because the work progresses in
stages, with the Washington Street
wing to be finished first, then the
Nelson Street wing, and finally the
wing next to St. Patrick’s Church.

The upper floors will be completed
first in each wing so that the con-
struction workers will not need to

enter finished floors to reach their
work areas,

When completed, Gaines Resi-
dence Hall will supply 248 beds, 13 of
which will be taken by the eight resi
dent assistants.

Of the remaining 235 beds, 159 have
already been contracted, with 10 law
and 149 undergraduate residents. Of
those students, 97 are women

Parsons said he is not surprised by
the 67 percent occupancy rate, and
would be concerned if Gaines were
full next year.

“If we had a 100 percent occupancy
rate, we'd have to start looking at
where to build the next dorm,” Par
sons said.

 

ce eR A TN oN a Sa a lie thle etn ee ep 6 1 pe setae aie So a
OPINION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“You MEAN AFTER FOUR YEARS, ALL YOU CAN SAY 1S, ‘IT LOOKS LIKE A ROCK’ ?”

Positive

Often fraternities complain that only the negative things
they do make the headlines of The Ring-tum Phi. It’s true
that often the news pages mention fraternities only when a
student has fallen out of a house window or when the IFC has
decided to ban kegs at parties or some similar landmark
decision. Happily, this week we can mention a positive activi-
ty in which hopefully all of W&L’s fraternities will partici-

te.
ee the coming week, W&L will hold its first an-
nual Greek Week. The festivities will include ‘oozeball,’ bed
racing, separate golf and softball tournaments, as well as a
toga party. The money raised from the activities will be
donated to the local United Way and to the local shelter for
the homeless.

It’s commendable that W&L’s fraternities are making a
unified effort to raise money for charity. Certainly, this
seems to be a perfect example of the good fraternities can do
for the community, and the adininistration, as well as the stu-
dent media sources, should take note.

No, fraternities are not all bad. Fraternity activities do not
always end in police reports. The Ring-tum Phi is pleased to
be able to mention something the fraternities are doing that
positively affect the community. We hope to see Greek Week
become a time-honored tradition and look forward to seeing
more positive fraternity activities.

Opportunity

Now’s your chance! If you’ve been belly-aching all year
about the Phi, put your money where your mouth is and apply
to become editor for 1987-88. The Publications Board is look-
ing for a few good men and women to run the University’s
student newspaper. The positions of editor and business
manager are chosen by the Publications Board. Students in-
terested in the position should turn in an application listing
qualifications to Carol Calkins’ office as soon as possible. Ap-
plicants will be interviewed by the Publications Board ina
meeting next week.

If you are interested in working as an editor of a specific
section of the Phi (news, sports, entertainment, editorial
page), you should apply in the Phi office. Next year’s editor
makes appointments to these positions, so these editors won’t
oe chosen until next year’s editor has been selected.

The Calyx is also looking for an editor and business
manager for next year. Students interested in that position
should also turn in applications to Carol Calkins.

Now’s your chance. Don’t miss it.

300d job

While the results of yesterday’s lacrosse game against
Roanoke were heartbreaking, the team and coaches
leserve to be commended for a great effort. It was par-
icularly encouraging to see so many fans in the stands.
{opefully, in years to come such a large crowd turnout will
ecome a regular sight. W&L’s student atheletes work hard
nd devote a large part of their free time to their sport. They
eserve the fans’ support.

asian eam eae ene

Che KRing-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF

ee ee Sean Bugg
re err TP terry ier re John Pensec
eg ee er ee Michael Tuggle
ee et Tr err David Emrich
2 Le ee Perry Hayes
ee re rie ore ree Mike Shady
pe er ee Steve Pockrass

EDITORIAL PAGE

Editorial Page Bier... ccc ccccsecccccccccccsesescccvecsecesecvoees Marie Dunne
at "ASA rrr rrr rier er Teere Tie ee ed ee Chris Bowring

BUSINESS STAFF
WG MAMIE once ccc cece se ccccteseccestenecsesssstonicetes Rhona Hughes
Advertising Mamager .........ccccccesccsstececeeessesreeseesvesenees Robert Jones

The Ring-tum Phiis published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1987

 

To The Editors:

I want to express my thanks to the Phi for bringing re-
cent articles from the Roanoke paper concerning the ad-
missions process here to the attention of the W&L com-
munity. It was certainly interesting to see that local jour-
nalism views the Admissions Office in the same way as
many students have come to see it: an almost mythic
summit where Olympian forces of great power casually
decide the fates of men (and, yes, women). The “ar-
rogance,”’ which Mr. Hartog made a point of disputing,
certainly did come out of the description of his office,
which lent itself well to a parallel with the posse of swag-
gering cowboys who inhabit the smoke-filled rooms of the
National Security Council. That is not to say that the pro-
spective ‘‘gentlemen”’ (and “‘ladies’’ — no, too much like
a restroom — how about “‘gentlewomen’”’?) favored by
Mr. Hartog’s admissions criteria are in any way com-
parable to the moral equivalent of Washington, Jeffer-
son, and, I guess, Lee, to be found in the Contras of Lt.
Col. North. The real question seems to be whether Mr.
Hartog’s gleeful triumphal procession of numbers —
SATs and grades — might not crush some potential
scholars under its rude wheels.

If I were the slave placed on Mr. Hartog’s speeding
chariot to remind him of mutability of all fame, I would
whisper to him not that admissions standards could some
day drop, but that after a while of his new-and-improved-
W&L, admissions standards would be the only thing of
importance here. But, would he care? In his numerology

 

 

LETTERS

Admission ‘summit’ galls student

of comparable, objectitiable standards, individual poten-
tial seems to have little place: what emphasis, for exam-
ple, does Mr. Hartog put on an admissions essay, or
recommendations (I know that he considers the latter
dishonest fluff to bolster a ‘‘weak”’ candidacy)?

I personally would not have gotten into the new super-
popular W&L — my high school record was bad; yet I
won't aplogize for it. Not to include myself in their
number, I know good students here — honors and Phi
Beta Kappa — who would also probably be excluded from
Mr. Hartog’s Elysian Fields. On the other hand, I have
seen smug new W&L’ers (obviously “strong can-
didates’”’) who can barely handle the work geared to
those of us who “snuck in’ when admissions were
“‘slack.”’ I like coed and a better reputation for the school,
but I don’t like to have false judgments of value shoved in
my face, so as to make me, and all my pre-coed class-
mates, feel how just plain lucky we are to be at a place’so
nifty — a place that repudiates us by placing its bets on
freshmen yet unborn.

But what triumphant general ever listened to a slave? I
realize, too that Mr. Hartog is not Zeus, but just a func-
tionary doing his assigned job, just following orders. I ad-
dress myself, then, to those who have a real stake in
liberal education — the students, the faculty, and Dr.
Wilson, a scholar in his own right: is expediency a good
enough excuse to replace a college with a cross-section of
respectable automatons?

Erik Curren ’87

 

 

Reader notes ‘The Code of Gentlemen’

To The Editor:

In looking over old Ring Tum-Phis from the
past few months (yes, there are a few of us out
here who do still read it) I have noticed that what
seems to be an inordinate number of LETTERS
TO THE EDITOR and MY VIEWS that are solely
dedicated to defining ‘‘a gentleman.”’ It’s an im-
portant issue when you consider our entire Honor
Code was founded upon Lee’s definition of a
gentleman. Therefore, if you can stand just one
more letter on the subject, I'd like to offer you
The Code of Gentlemen. It’s the best definition of
a gentleman I have ever seen...

Without a strict observance of the fundamental
Code of Honor, no man, no matter how ‘“‘polish-
ed,’’ can be considered a gentleman. The honor
of a gentleman demands the inviolability of his
word, and the incorruptibility of his principles.
He is the descendent of the knight, the crusader,
he is the defender of the defenseless and the
champion of justice — or he is not a gentleman.

A Gentleman....

DOES NOT discuss his family affairs in public or
with acquaintances.

DOES NOT speak more than casually about his
wife or girl friend.

DOES NOT go to a lady’s house if he is affected
by alcohol. He is temperate in the use of alcohol.
DOES NOT lose his temper, nor exhibit anger,
fear, hate, embarrassment, ardor or hilarity in
public.

DOES NOT hail a lady from a club window.

A Gentleman NEVER discusses the merits or
demerits of a lady.

DOES NOT mention names exactly as he avoids
the mention of what things cost.

DOES NOT borrow money from a friend, except
in dire need. Money borrowed is a debt of honor,
and must be repaid as promptly as possible.
Debts incurred by a deceased parent, brother,
sister or grown child are assumed by honorable
men as a debt of honor.

DOES NOT display his wealth, money or posses-
sions.

DOES NOT put his manners on and off, whether
in the club or ina ballroom. He treats people with
courtesy, no matter what their social positions
may be.

DOES NOT slap strangers on the back nor so
muchas lay a finger ona lady.

DOES NOT “‘lick the boots of those above him”’
nor “kick the face of those below him on the
social ladder.’’

DOES NOT take advantage of another’s help-
lessness or ignorance and assumes that no gen-
tleman will take advantage of him.

A Gentleman respects the reserves of others, but
demands that others respect those which are his.
A Gentleman CAN become what he wills to be...

The authors of this piece (I hesitate to say ina
W&L newspaper, for fear of diminishing the im-
pact the piece might have otherwise made) were
cadets — their exact names unknown. You can
find it hanging on the second floor of LeJeune
Hall at VMI and in old copies of the ‘‘rat bible”
(a booklet that all the first-year students are re-
quired to carry around and memorize). The
CODE was supposedly a class gift to the school
compiled by several cadets.

Lisabeth E. Fowler
Class of 89

Darrell thanks lip synch-ers

To the Editors:

It was great — a hit. If you weren’t one of the
150 who attended, you missed a great time. The
first annual Lip Synch contest to benefit Multiple
Sclerosis was an overwhelming success. Sixteen
groups consisting of 58 performers had a ball.
The standing-room-only crowd was equally en-
thusiastic (as evidenced when they spontaneous-
ly joined in on the Executive Committee’s ver-
sion of ‘‘You’ve Lost that Lovin Feelin’ ”’).

On behalf of those afflicted with this crippling
disease, thanks go to the committee members
who contributed their time for the past six
weeks, to the performers who were the highlight
of the evening and to the members of the aud-

ience who gave their zealous support. We will
definitely be doing this again.

Jerry Darrell

MS Volunteer
P.S. The T-shirts did not arrive in time due to a
strike at the plant. The first 40 registrants will be
informed when the shirts arrive.

Course requirements outlined

Dear W&L students:

During registration for the Fall Term, ALL
300-level history courses, except History 375,
Chinese Civilization to 1800, will require permis-
sion of the instructor prior to enrollment.
BEGINNING MONDAY, MAY 4, ANY RISING
JUNIOR OR RISING SENIOR may obtain this
permission by visi i g the instructor’s office and
signing the instructor’s list. Some history in-
structors may accept selected rising sophomores
into a 300-level course; therefore, ALSO ON
MONDAY, MAY 4, rising sophomores may also
visit the instructor and sign up for the course.
Regardless of which day you are supposed to
register, signing up for the course on MONDAY,
will reserve space for you in the course. It is
essential, however, that a student get his name
on the instructor’s list; therefore, please visit the
instructor in his office; please DO NOT stop the
instructor on the campus since he may forget a
student’s name before he can put it on the list.

For most courses, the purpose of requiring
permission is to limit the size of the class. The
History Department regrets the necessity for
this; we are willing, indeed, eager to teach as
many students in a class as can profit from that
experience but, in view of the damage to teach-
ing and learning that occurs from excessively
large classes, we simply must impose some
restriction on our enrollments.

Students interested in History 364 — European
Intellectual History from Renaissance to Kant
(Jarrett) or History 367 The Growth of Imperial
Russia (Bidlack) should see Professor McAhren.

sincerely yours,
Robert W. McAhren
Acting Head of Department

Discrimination protested

To the Editors:

When I first read the headline it seemed too
unreal to be true, and definitely worse than any
Soviet propaganda ploy I had ever heard of in my
life. “Employers may promote women and
minorities ahead of white males—without evi-
dence of prior discrimination.’’ Legalized
discrimination is what I call it. Yousee, lamina
real predicament. I am a white male about to
graduate from college and seek employment in
this great country of ours, where all men and
women are created equal, and where no one is to
be judged based solely on race, sex, or religion.
The problem is that these presumptions of
equality have just been overruled by the
Supreme Court. Incredible to think that such an
injustice could occur in this nation.

Or is it? Discrimination is nothing new in this
country, but legalized discrimination is. I read
the other day that women were still only making
about 70% of what men were for the same job.
This too is an injustice. I also see where blacks
are being discriminated against as they have
been in the past. This too is an injustice. And now
the Supreme Court has decided to try and right
these injustices with one of their own. Legalized
discrimination against white males is the
greatest injustice of all. Not because it is against
my gender and race, but because it is an abuse of
the law against a huge minority of this country.

The answer to the problem is quite clear and
simple. It has been around for over 200 years. All
men are created equal and cannot be judged
solely on race, sex, or religion. When this
sentence says ‘‘all men,”’ I translate that as
meaning all homosapiens, women included. In
other words — Equal pay for equal work, and no
discrimination against any man or woman,

Where there is discrimination, it should be
treated justly by the law. It seems so simple an
answer to such a volatile problem, but perhaps
those in the Supreme Court are so used to mak-
ing a rather simple problem quite complex that
they felt it only natural to right a wrong with
another wrong. My congratulations to you
members of this elite legal system, who have
suceeded in making the American dream a bit
harder to grasp for all of us.

Etienne D. Cambon
Political Science Major
Washington and Lee University

Student life surveys needed
To the Editors:

A final decision will be made in the upcoming
weeks based on the Student Life Survey which
was distributed to all W&L women in early
March. This survey dealt with the possibility of
sororities, a women’s center of some type, or the
combination of both being established on cam-

pus.

Not enough women have responded to the
survey to draw any conclusions or to make any
final decisions based on a majority of the
women’s requests.

I think it is important for all W&L women to
realize that a decision of this magnitude can not
be made effectively without their response. A
final decision about the sorority/women’s center
question will be made soon after May 4. This
decision will ultimately affect the development
and progression of women on campus. Now is the
time to speak out about what you, as W&L
women want to see happen during your 4 years
on campus. It does no good to voice an opinion or
file a complaint after the final decision has been
made. I urge you to turn in your surveys to Carol
Calkins’ office in the University Center by Fri-
day, May 8.

Additional copies of the survey are available in
her office.

Your response can make a difference. Please
speak out and voice your opinion. This is our last
chance!

Clare Kaye ’87

Circumcision opinions sought
Dear Editor:

We are a non-profit resource center organized
in 1986 by physicians, nurses and parents to pro-
vide up-to-date information on circumcision,
America’s unique and leading unnecessary
surgery.

The U.S. is now the only Western or Eastern
nation left in which over half of baby boys are
still circumcised at birth without a medical or
religious reason. Over 85 percent of the world’s
males are intact (non-circumcised).

In recent months we have received many let-
ters from American males who are dissatisfied
with their circumcisions and who have sought
medical advice from us on foreskin restoration.
The problems range from surgical scars to tight-
ness and pain to sexual dysfunction because of
the loss of the protective foreskin.

Because these problems may be more wide-
spread than previously thought, we are soliciting
letters from your readers, either signed or
anonymously, on the issue of circumcision. All
responses will be held in the strictest medical
confidence. Specifically, we ask: (1) describe
problems which you believe are related to the
fact that you are circumcised; (2) how old were
you when you learned you had been circumcis-
ed; (3) how did you feel when you realized that
part of your body was cut off; and (4) would you
prefer to be intact and would you consider fore-
skin restoration if available to you? We also
solicit comments from intact males and females.

This subject is sensitive and serious. Crank let-
ters are not appreciated. Your responses should
be sent to N.O.C.I.R.C., 731 Sir Francis Drake
Boulevard, San Anselmo, California 94960.
Readers interested in learning more about cir-
cumcision should send a stamped, self-address-
ed envelope to that address.

Sincerely,
Marilyn F. Milos, R.N.
Director

 

 
OPINION/NEWS

26 cadets honored in ceremony

Te
Rush: put it off

for a while

By Steven Pockrass

One day, a large white sign with big black letters was posted in the

orphanage:

ORPHANS, TAKE NOTE! FOR THE NEXT TWO WEEKS, EACH
OF YOU WILL BE INTRODUCED TO A DOZEN FAMILIES WHO

WILL WINE YOU AND DINE YOU AND HAVE ALL SORTS OF PAR-
TIES IN YOUR HONOR. IF ONE OF THESE FAMILIES DECIDES

* THAT IT WANTS YOU AS A SON OR DAUGHTER, YOU WILL HAVE
, ONE WEEK TO SAY “YES” OR “‘NO.”’

No, it’s not a true story. But it’s not much worse than the truth 2f

‘ Washington and Lee’s current fraternity Rush system.
, | W&L needs a deferred Rush. About the only thing that’s forced upon
freshmen faster and more furiously than Rush is that silly algebra test
* that’s used to place students in beginning or advanced calculus.
Many members of the W&L community, from freshmen to faculty,
are in favor of a deferred Rush, a concept I suggest the Interfraternity
* Council and Student Affairs Committee consider for next year. I'd like
_ tocite five major reasons to support this position.

First, instead of having rules that are passed in the spring and
forgotten (or ignored) by September, the rules could be passed during
, the Fall Term. This would end a lot of confusion.

Second, Rush would be more fair, giving smaller houses (such as my
r own) a better chance to compete with the larger, more wealthy
, houses. Students would have a chance to see all of the houses at a more

leisurely pace and would be able to make much wiser choices about
:* which houses to visit once Rush actually begins. Thus, Rush would

, become more efficient.

Third, we would better allocate our social resources. How much
‘* money do we waste on 17 band parties on a single weekend in
, , September, only to have bandless parties in October and November?
How much do we spend on those first-impression bashes the first week
'* of school, only to become bashless in January?

', Fourth, freshmen would have the chance to explore other social and
extra-curricular opportunities before joining fraternities. Can an
:* educational institution truly claim to have its priorities straight or to
, mold the entire individual when its first role of business is to pressure

" people into time-consuming, four-year social commitments?
Fifth, the freshman year would become much easier and more
, rewarding. Should our first “schoolwide activity’’ of the year be one
- that for the most part excludes women? Should it be one that im-
-’ mediately labels some students as “‘social misfits’? Should it be one
:, that forces some students to be pledges (i.e., scum) for six or eight

‘ months of their freshman year?

A deferred Rush probably should have been instituted here long ago,
| «but what is most important is that we push for it now. After all, what

, are we afraid of?

' Are we scared that fraternities will be unable to live within their
'. budgets for the first six months without pledge dues? Are we scared
_that the frat system will lose its campus dominance if freshmen are
given the chance to make friends on their own and find other ways to
' spend their time? Are we scared that frats may have to adapt toa new
: system or that freshmen will think more carefully about where to join
' when they have a more informed opinion about each of the houses?
:* Ifo, then we should bag the fraternity system.

'¥
‘

ROCKIN’

 

1 Continued from Pagel
‘hers. Selections range from Elvis
Fresley to current Top 40.

“No commercial station would
caré do that,”’ Pierce said, because it
vould break format.

' Piert: developed the countdown
: net ‘Only by judging record sales and
ti airplay but also by considering
py influence on society and
the music industry. If there is
anything that bothers him about the
survey, it is that racism in the music

  

_ Brom Staff Reports

lyan book revised

 

‘“American Rhetoric from
sevelt to Reagan,” edited and
ibuted to by Halford Ryan, pro-
essor of speech at Washington and
| |Leé, has been revised.
The book, which contains 33
speeches and 10 critical essays,
overs FDR’s First Inaugural Ad-
| }dréss to Reagan’s Apologia on Ira-
ae sales.

“Ryan contributed a new essay,

“LBJ’s Voting Rights Address: Ad-

‘Assault charge against Henry dropped

By JOHN PENSEC
News Editor

“he charges against junior class
\(president Mike Henry have been
| dropped.
|. Henry was arrested in September

after throwing beer on a Lexington

police officer. He later turned
| himself in and was charged with
assault and obstructing justice.

‘The assault charge was under ad-

visement provided that Henry use his
position as a class officer to promote
positive P.R. between fraternities
andthe police.
yCOme Saturday night, Henry rode
with a sergeant of the Lexington
police force to see how the police had
‘to deal with fraternities and to try
and: think of some way to promote
better public relations between the
itwogroups.
'*After discussions with Bruce
Beard, chief of police, Chris Saxman,
formser IFC president, and Leroy C.
“Buddy” Atkins, associate dean of
students, it was decided that at least
once a semester, each fraternity
we'd have one or two police officers
over for dinner with a question-and-
aaswer period following the meal.

| Tpe program finished last week.

 

industry seems to have lessened the
influence of some good black musi-
cians who Pierce thinks deserved to
be in the top 92.

These black artists were not in-
cluded because their songs were not
considered influential at the time
they were recorded. ‘‘It’s a shame,
but that’s the way our society’s
been,”’ Pierce said.

Although the Rolling Stones special
will be all live, Pierce has pre-
recorded some of the countdown, in-
cluding guest introductions by
members of the W&L community.

Despite being pestered by a
reporter, he was reluctant to give out

justing Civil Rights to the Congress
and the Congress to Civil Rights,” for
President Johnson’s famous civil
rights speech in 1965. Ryan con-
ducted research in the Lyndon B.
Johnson Library in Austin, Texas, on
a grant from the Maurice Mednick
Memorial Foundation.

Ryan’s book is used nationally for
courses such as rhetorical theory,
speech criticism and American
public address. The first edition was
published in 1983.

 
    
   
  
   
 

 

From Staff Reports

 

John T. Wiltse, a Washington and
Lee senior from Bradford, N.H., is
one of 20 cadets nationwide to receive
the National Defense Transportation
Award,

Wiltse received the award at the
Army ROTC President’s Awards
Day Ceremony in Lee Chapel on
Tuesday when W&L President John
D. Wilson recognized Wiltse and 26
other cadets.

The award is given to a cadet who
is in the top 25 percent of his class in
academic and ROTC subjects and
who is recommended by both Luke B.
Ferguson, professor of Military
science, and John W. Elrod, dean of
the college, as an outstanding stu-
dent.

Paul G. Schlimm, a senior from
Baltimore, was awarded the univer-
sity saber as he received the
Washington and Lee Outstanding
Cadet Award. Schlimm was elected
by his peers for his exceptional
Jeadership ability, devotion to duty
and outstanding service to the
University’s Corps of Cadets.

The Major Ronald 0. Scharnberg
Memorial Award, recognizing the
cadet who most nearly typifies the
W&L tradition of the citizen-scholar-
soldier, was presented to senior An-
drew M. Gibson from Atlanta. The
award is a memorial to Major
Ronald Oliver Scharnberg, a 1963
W&L graduate who was killed in ac-
tion.

Senior Matthew J. Waterbury from
St. Petersburg Beach, Fla., received
the George C. Marshall ROTC Award
for demonstrating leadership and
scholastic qualities which epitomized
the career of Gen. Marshall.

Other awards presented to
members of W&L’s ROTC unit were:

Department of the Army Superior
Cadet Decoration Awards: senior
Paul A. Youngman, Rochester, N.Y.;

Director of placement named

From Staff Reports

 

N. Rick Heatley, director of the
Career Planning and Placement Of-
fice at Wake Forest University, has
been named associate dean of
students and director of career ser-
vices at Washington and Lee.

The announcement was made by
Lewis G. John, dean of students at
W&L. Heatley will assume his post
July 1.

As director of career services,
Heatley will provide leadership for
the policy development and program

much information about the cuts that
would lead the countdown.

“The number one song is probably
unexpected,” although “it was a
number one hit at one time,”’ Pierce
said. “It registered really big on in-
fluence and requests, It’s “the type
of tune everyone’s gonna like.”’

Pierce did say that his top pick was
not a Rolling Stones’ song, which
may come as a surprise to those who
know him well.

But considering that he worked
about six hours on the Rolling Stones
special before putting in about 20 on
the countdown, perhaps it’s no sur-
prise at all.

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1987

:

 

fae... A aye

 

Wilson and Ferguson with award-winning cadets.

junior Craig O. Garneau, Glaston-
bury, Conn.; sophomore Samuel H.
Melton, Falls Church, Va.; freshman
Joseph B. Topinka, Riverside, Ill.

Reserve Officers Association of the
United States ROTC Medals: sopho-
more Pietro M. Petino, Springfield,
N.J. (bronze); junior John E. Veat-
ch, Alexandria, Va. (silver); senior
Thomas J. Boyd, Winchester, Va.

The Daughters of Founders and
Patriots Award: sophomore Philip A.
DuPont, Topsham, Maine.

American Legion Awards: junior
Christopher H. Beckert, Madison,
Conn.; senior John L. Brownlee,
Fairfax, Va.; junior Ivon H. Lowsley,
Springfield, Mo.; senior Edwin W.
Parkinson, Columbia, Md.

administration of a comprehensive
program of career counseling and
placement. His responsibilities will
include individual and group counsel-
ing, career information, job hunting
workshops, management of recruit-
ing, outreach activities, and service
as pre-law adviser.

Heatley received his B.A. degree
from Baylor University and his M.A.

and Ph.D. in classics from the *-

University of Texas at Austin. In 1971
he was awarded a Fulbright-Hayes
Fellowship to Italy. He is a member
of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership
society.

By JOHN PENSEC
News Editor

 

Student body officers and universi-
ty administrators will meet once a
week for lunch to discuss student con-
cerns, it was announced at Monday’s
E.C. meeting.

The move comes after months of
complaints that university president
John D. Wilson and other ad-

Association of the United States Ar-
my Military History Award: sopho-
more Clifford L. Deal, Virginia
Beach, Va.

Association of the United States Ar-
my ROTC Gold Medal Award: junior
John B. Gentry, Daphne, Ala.

The Local Virginia Frontier
Chapter Daughters of the American
Revolution Award: senior John R.
Maass, Fairfield’ Va.

Sons of the American Revolution
Award: freshman Brian C. Snedeker,
Westport, Conn.

American Veterans of World War
II Award: junior Emerson B. Robin-
son, Jackson, Miss.

General Society of the War of 1812
Award: sophomore Martin R. Burl-

Among his professional associa-
tions, he is a member of the College
Placement Council, the Southern Col-
lege Placement Association, and the
Association of Pre-Law Advisers.

Active in community service,
Heatley is a Boy Scout leader, a
United Way university coordinator,

_and a deacon and choir member of

the Wake Forest Baptist Church.

At Wake Forest, Heatley served as
associate of academic administra-
tion from 1977 to 1983 and taught
classical languages. He was ap-
pointed to his current position in 1983.

ministrators were not aware or sen-
sitive to student concerns.

Wilson and Deans John, Elrod and
Peppers met last week with the big
three E.C. officers for both this year
and next year. At that meeting it was
decided that the best solution would
be for Wilson and John to meet with
the students once a week.

At that meeting the administrators
recognized the E.C. as the vehicle for
student communications, but E.C.

Private libraries in exhibit at library

From Staff Reports

 

“Early Virginia Private Libraries
from 1700 to 1830,” a traveling ex-
hibit, will be on display in the
Washington and Lee University
Library May 1 through May 22.

The exhibit will be in the lobby of
Lower Level I, which is open 24 hours
a day, seven days a week.

Funded by a grant from the
Virginia Foundation for the

 

 

 

Dinner at the Beta Theta Pi fraternity house.

Humanities and Public Policy, the
exhibit includes 20 photographic
panels featuring examples from the
libraries of 10 Virginians: William
Byrd (1674-1744), Landon Carter
(1710-1788), George Washington
(1732-1799), Ralph Wormeley V
(1744-1806), Thomas Jefferson
(1743-1826), Jean Miller Skipwith
(1748-1826), St. George Tucker
(1752-1827), John Randolph

(1773-1833), James Mercer Garnett

 

Fe fo
aa

By Perry 8, Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

(1770-1843) and Joseph Carrington
Cabell (1778-1856).

The exhibit has been developed by
Mildred Abraham, librarian for
readers’ services at the Rare Book
Department of the University of
Virginia’s Alderman Library.

Designed by the firm Beyond Ex-
hibits of Newport News and
photographed by Francis Rockett,

 

 

By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L

ingame, San Gabriel, Calif.

The National Sojourners Award:
sophomore Richard P. James,
Amelia, Va.

Veterans of Foreign Wars of the
USA Award: senior Michael D.
Bowen, Lexington, Va.; junior
Robert V. Williamson, Davidson,
N.C.; sophomore Anthony G. DeMar-
tino, Brooklyn, N.Y.; freshman Scott
C. Babrke, Livingston, N.J.

Military Order of the World Wars
Award: freshman Paul W. Miles,
Montgomery, Ala. (bronze);
sophomore John Legters, Fairfax,
Va. (silver); junior Jon D. Missert,
Roanoke, Va. (gold).

 

HEATLEY

EC officers and Wilson to meet

members noted that their meetings
are often poorly attended. Usuaily
only the Phi reporter and students
giving budget reports attend the
meetings that are open to the student
body.

It was also announced that the E.C.
would pick one student concern to
discuss at the weekly meeting. The
first discussion will be about the pro-
posed university theatre.

the traveling presentation is based on
an exhibit titled “‘Formerly in the
Possession Of’ at the Rare Books
Department of UVA's Alderman
Library in 1983.

The state tour of ‘Early Virginia
Private Libraries from 1700 to 1830”
began March 1 at the University of
Virginia’s Rotunda, and will move to
a series of libraries around Virginia
for 13 months.

 

NOH

QC Continued from Page 1

 

flute and three different drums,
among which is included the shoulder
drum (or ‘‘Kotsuzumi’’), believed to
be the only type of drum in the world
that is struck from the bottom by the
performer.

Controlling the musical direction of
the performance is frequently the
responsibility of the performer of the
Otsuzumi, or hip drum, as there is no
conductor in Noh.

Noh differs from contemporary
Western theatre in other ways as
well. Professional Noh performers do
not receive diplomas or papers at-
testing to their skill in Noh Theatre.
Instead, Noh performance skills are
passed down from father to son in a
line unbroken since the 15th century
in what is known as the “Iemoto”’
system.

The only other way to become a
professional performer is to spend
many years living with and learning
from a headmaster of a Noh school of
a family of Noh.

And unlike the Western traditicn of
performance dress rehearsals, Noh
performers train and rehearse on
their own, and there is only a brief
meeting a few days fore the actual

performance to review details.

“The six professional performers
in Tsuxma are noted in Japan for
presenting traditional Noh Theatre in
non-traditional surroundings as a
way of introducing the theatre tradi-
tion to wider audiences,’ Rogers
said.

The traditional Noh stage should
prove an interesting complement to
the Lime Kiln’s outdoor theatre when
the group performs there 8 p.m
Saturday night. It consists of a raised
square platform that reaches out into
the audience. There are posts at each
corner that support a peaked thatch-
ed roof

The only stage decor is three small
pine trees along a bridgeway that is
used for exits and entrances, and a
painting of a large pine tree on the
upstage wall.

The troupe’s lecture/demonstra-
tion at 8 p.m. Sunday in Lee Chapel
will include ‘‘scenes’’ from the Satur-
day performance, as well as explana
tions of many of the symbols used.

“Those unfamiliar with Noh
Theatre or the Japanese tradition
will find that Noh cannot be defined
by our normal conceptions of time
and space,’’ Rogers said. ‘In attemp-
ting to bring out one’s deeper con-
sciousness, Noh uses fantasy in a
way that often defies common sense.
This denial of logic is often hard for
Westerners to grasp.’
 

 

 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1987

 

Generals comeback
falls short in 2nd OT

DAVID EMRICH
ris Editor

 

Except for two minutes, the
Washington and Lee lacrosse team
would like to forget all of last week.

The Generals dropped a 15-14 dou-
ble overtime game to Roanoke that

ost them the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championship. They also
dropped a 12-9 decision to Washing-
ton College that cost them their No. 1
ranking. But the final two minutes of
regulation play in yesterday’s ODAC
title game against Roanoke took
some of the rough edge off the week.

To be honest, W&L had no right to
even be in a position to win yester-
day’s game. The Maroons outplayed
the Generals for all but the last 1:51
of regulation.

Those last few seconds, however,
made all the difference in the world
in terms of the game, and might have
even been important in terms of a na-
tional tournament bid.

The Generals were ranked first by
the United States Intercollegiate
Lacrosse Association as late as last
Saturday. Then the loss to
Washington College dropped them
from that spot. That loss, combined
with the lackluster performance they
were turning in against Roanoke,
might have cost them their bid to the
National Collegiate Athletic Associa-
tion’s post season tournament. After
all, with the exception of Ohio-
Wesleyan, the Generals hadn’t really
played any top-ranked teams. Then
when they finally did face tourna-
ment teams, they played two unim-
pressive games.

Roanoke’s defense was having an
xcellent day against the Generals.
rhey were keeping W&L’s two main
offensive weapons, sophomores John
Ware and Neill Redfern, in check.
"hey were forcing the Generals to
ake bad shots and harrassing W&L
s soon as they got the ball.

Meanwhile, on the offensive end,
the Maroons were also controlling
the tempo of the game. Roanoke had
possession for the great majority of
the first half, and led 8-4 at intermis-

sion,

W&L appeared ready to mount
runs at the Maroons on several occa-
sions, but in each instance Roanoke
would score to squelch any chance of
a comeback.

That’s why, when the Generals
were down 14-10 with under two
minutes to go, the fans started filing

out of the stadium. However, Ware
brought most of those fans back with
two quick goals.

Ware scored, unassisted, from the
left side of the goal, to bring the
Generals to within three, 14-11.

Ware then scored again, from the
same spot, exactly one minute later
to make the score 14-12.

At this point, everybody in the
stadium was on their feet. The
Generals had scored twice in one
minute. Suddenly the game didn’t
seem out of reach.

“The kids started to believe in
themselves, it was tremendous. It
was great to come back,”’ said W&L
head coach Dennis Daly

Junior Sandy Harrison won the en-
suing faceoff, and W&L got the ball to
their second leading scorer, Redfern,
who went in on the goal, untouched,
and scored with 31 seconds remain-
ing in the game to cut the Roanoke
lead to one, 14-13.

Roanoke suddenly wasn’t doing the
things they had kept them in control
of the game earlier. They didn’t seem
to be as aggressive defensively.

The Generals took advantage of
Roanoke’s loss of concentration, and
won the next faceoff. Ware then took
a shot that dribbled wide and out of
bounds. It was still W&L’s ball with
11 seconds left.

Senior Bill Garrett handled the in-
bounds and passed the ball to Robbie
Stanton who took a shot from 30 feet
that bounced right past the Roanoke
goalie and tied the score with 0:08
showing on the clock.

The Generals had scored four
times with less than two minutes
remaining to tie the score. With 1:51
of excellence they had almost erased
the 58:09 of mediocrity.

“We got the ball to our shooters,”’
said Daly. ‘We were working,
screening well. I thought we had all
the momentum in the world.”

The teams then went into the first
four-minute sudden death overtime
period.

The Generals had two excellent op-
portunities to win the game, but
came up short both times. Once
because of a great defensive play by
Roanoke, and once because of plain
bad luck.

In their first opportunity, the
Generals had Redfern behind the
defense, all alone, breaking in on the
goal. All they had to do was get the

0 See Lax, page7

 

Action from yesterday’s lacrosse game: (top) junior Pete
Smith scores early on, and (bottom) senior Bill Garrett knocks

a Roanoke player out of bounds.

Men’s tennis sweeps every flight

 

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

The perfect scenario would have
been for the Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team to capture its third
consecutive Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship by win-
ning a tie-breaker in the third set of
the final and decisive doubles match.
Well, it didn’t quite happen that way.

Instead, the Generals, still ranked
No. 2 in the nation by the ITCA Divi-
sion III poll, won all 27 matches in
breezing through the ODAC’s nine
flights (six singles and three
doubles); had their No. 1 singles
player, sophomore Robert Haley,
named ODAC Player-of-the-Year;
and had their head coach, Gary
Franke, awarded ODAC Coach-of-
the-Year.

All of this was accomplished
without the services of W&L’s No. 2
singles player, sophomore Bobby
Matthews, who was unable to play
due to an injury to his right hand.

‘We pulled Matthews,’ said
Franke, ‘‘because his hand was still

sore,

Matthews’ spot was filled by
freshman Matt Ormiston, who
played No. 6 singles and No. 1
doubles with junior David McLeod.

According to Franke, Ormiston’s
performance was nothing short of ex-
cellent.

“| was pleased with the way he

iyed. In his first match, he was

e to hold off three match points
before he won 7-6 in the third set.
Then he got on track [for the re-

mainder of the tournament]. He also
performed well with McLeod.”

The winners for W&L were: Haley
at No. 1 singles; McLeod at No. 2;
senior captain Roby Mize at No. 3;
junior Chris Wiman at No. 4; fresh-
man John Morris at No. 5; and Or-
miston at No. 6. The winning doubles
teams were: Ormiston and McLeod
at No. 1; Haley and Mize at No. 2;
and Morris and Wiman at No. 3.

It was the first time that W&L has
ever swept all nine flights in the
ODACs, and Franke called it a
“great achievement and team ef-
fort.” It was also the third con-
secutive year in which Franke was
named the conference’s Coach-of-the
Year.
ginia match cancelled, the Generals
will now continue to practice in an-
ticipation of receiving an invitation
to the NCAA Division III National
Championships, to be held May 11-17
in Salisbury, Md. The selections will
be made on Sunday night. The Gen-
erals have participated in the cham-
pionship tournament the past two

years, finishing 8th when it was held
at W&L in 1985, and ending up in 2nd
place in 1986 after losing in the final
match to Kalamazoo, Mich.

Franke sees the top four spots
secure with No. 1-ranked Kalamazoo,
W&L, No. 3-ranked UC-Santa Cruz
and No. 4-ranked Washington College
all assured of receiving bids. The bot-
tom four spots, however, are still in
question, with Principia, Redlands,
Claremont, Rochester, Whitman,
Gustavus Adolphus and Swathmore
all still in the hunt, said Franke.

VOLLEYS...Matthews started hit-
ting this week and, according to
Franke, his injury is a “day-to-day
thing” and only ‘‘a matter of time’
before it is totally healed. Franke
was optimistic that Matthews was
going to be ready for nationals... The
Generals will play Hampton Institute
in a match on May 7. Hampton is
ranked No. 2 in Division II and, like
W&L, is in preparation for its na-
tional tournament.

 

Lexington Lighting
4 and Electric Supply

V

oped

Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.

aQoe ajo

Lexington’s Main Street Lighting Shop k
[{*~ m~. ; ‘i Q
> (> Ve NG

A Large Group of Light Bulbs
Special Prices

With this ad receive 15% off on in-stock
Lamps & Fixtures
Days

EO 9
()

26S. Main St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

Silver Jewelry
&

| Porcelain Jewelry
| Unique designs by
local artists.

Artists in Cahoots
Old Main St. Mall

 

 

 

| Lexington, VA

U——--—

House For Rent
‘87-88
4-5 Students

Call

463-6828
Mon.-Thurs.

 

W

Milkshakes

(Nights Only)

B

 

ARNE HEH
&L

Snack Bar

May Special
of the Month

Hot Fudge Sundaes

anana Splits...

aes SRNR ced

15° or 3/4 pt.

89°

$] 29

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum P!

hi

 

   

Track team tramples
ODAC competition

 

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

 

The members of the Washington
and Lee track team have apparently
decided that they like blowouts. Hav-
ing routed the competition in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Indoor
Championship Meet in February,
they graced the ODAC with a repeat
performance in Saturday’s outdoor
title meet at Bridgewater College.
The Generals crushed the rest of the
conference, easily out distancing
runners-up Roanoke and _ Bridge-
water by a 55-point margin.

W&L took at least one of the top
four places in every event but one,
sand took at least two of the top six
places in eight events. The Generals
won nine of the day’s 17 events, in-
cluding six of the 10 running events,
where the Generals ‘‘really
dominated”’ the rest of the con-
ference, according to head coach
Norris Aldridge.

The weather for the conference
championship was not a major pro-
blem for W&L, although Aldridge
said the cold and wet conditions at
Bridgewater did affect the times in
the sprint events and may have
hindered performances elsewhere,
particularly for the other schools.
‘“‘We were mentally prepared for the
weather, and really didn’t let it
bother us,”’ said Aldridge.

W&L was led by junior Andrew
White, who won the 110-meter high
hurdles in 15.2 seconds, won the 400-
meter hurdles in 57.1 seconds, ran on
the winning 1600-meter relay team,
and was named ODAC Runner-of-
the-Year by the conference coaches,
the same award he received in indoor
track.

Freshman Wes Boyd had “an ex-
cellent day,” said Aldridge. Boyd
took first place in the 100 (11.2
seconds) and 200 (22.9 seconds)
meter runs. Boyd also took third in
the long jump, even though he was a
last-minute entry in that event as a
replacement for injured senior John
Burlingame, and ran on W&L’s gold-
medal winning 1600-meter relay
squad.

In the shot put, senior Tom Murray
took the conference title with a throw
of 49 feet, setting a new ODAC out-
door record to go along with his in-
door record in the same event.

W&L distance runners also had an
excellent meet, according to

FOOD

STORES

 

Open 24 Hours
Country Deli

 

ate

re

BBQ Beef Spare-ribs ... $3.89

or Your Late Night Snacks!
\

Hoggie Sub
Kahn’s Hot Dogs

Nachos w/cheese
\

F
S

Fresh Made Deli Sandwiches

Salads

\
\Ee: 800 N. Main St.

Lexington, VA 24450

ones ene lerereosorlsrele sielslsle reels eleleecelerslecslleleleselare ereleoslere'e s elarene e-#1e'e-s'e"4léles4le™e's'elsessvelselé.e000006005004°6.008.6.8.0.4.6.9,0,5.9,6.9.0,000,06,4.4,9,0,0,0,08

Aldridge. Junior Richard Moore took
first in the 1500-meter run (4:05.9)
and was third in the 5000-meter rur
(15:36.3), and sophomore Jamie Urso
finished second in the 800 with a time
of 1:55.6, a new personal best and just
four-tenths of a second behind Roa-
noke’s Robbie Anderson.

In the pole vault, W&L took three of
the top six places and scored 20
points, with seniors John Carder and
Matthew Steilberg finishing first and
second and junior Joseph Fisher tak-
ing fifth. Carder cleared 13’6’’, with
Steilberg finishing at 13 feet and
Fisher at 12 feet.

The Generals also took two of the
top four places in the high jump.
Sophomore Fray McCormick over-
came knee trouble and a wet runway
to win the conference championship
in that event, clearing 6’2’’, and
Steilberg was second at 6’0”’.

W&L’s 1600-meter relay team of
Urso, Boyd, Andrew White, and
junior John White came from behind
to win the conference title, finishing
in 3:28.4. W&L took second place in
the 400-meter relay with a time of
43.9 seconds, just one-tenth of a sec-
ond off of the pace set by
Bridgewater.

MILEPOSTS... The team totals for
the meet were as follows: W&L, 157,
Roanoke, 102; Bridgewater, 102:
Lynchburg, 78; Emory & Henry, 49;
Eastern Mennonite, 37. These scores
are very similar to those of the indoor,
championship meet, which W&L won
by 48-point margin... The 55-point
margin of victory was the largest
spread in the ODAC Outdoor Cham-
pionship Meet since 1983, when
Lynchburg defeated runner-up
Roanoke by 69 points... A tribute to
this year’s seniors: In the past four
years, W&L has never lost a regulan
outdoor season meet, compiling a
27-0 record, and has placed no lower
than second in an ODAC Champion-
ship meet, winning two of those four
contests... Aldridge was named the
1987 ODAC Outdoor Track Coach-of-
the-Year after Saturday’s meet; ‘in
February, he received the same
award for his indoor team’s perfor-
mance... The season continues for,
several W&L athletes at this
weekend’s James Madison Universi*
ty Invitational. This meet and the.
Virginia Invitational on May 9 will
give Murray, Boyd, Moore, Urso, and
several others two more chances to
qualify for the NCAA Division III Na-
tional Championships.

Bp |

Desserts

 
 

 

By STUART SHELDON
Staff Reporter

 

Like any other sports team, the
Washington and Lee baseball squad
was hoping to close out its regular
season with a couple of wins, in order
to keep team morale high during
tournament time. Unfortunately, this
was not the case for the Generals this

?
year.

«

Yesterday, in the opening round of
the Old Dominion Athletic Confernce
tournament, the Generals were
eliminated by a 7-4 score by
Bridgewater. The General’s record
fell to 6-16, 4-11 in the conference.

The Eagles led by one run, 5-4, in
the seventh inning. They then scored
two more to clinch the victory.

“A couple of early errors hurt us in
the ballgame,” said W&L head coach

_ Jeff Stickley. He said that the good

" pitching was held back by fielding er-

 

rors,

When asked how he could
decrease the number of errors,
Stickley said, ‘In such a short
season, we only have a few things we
can work on.”’

After losing to the Bridgewater
Eagles on Thursday, Apri! 23, the
Generals ended their Old Dominion
Athletic Conference season with a
record of 4-10. Their overall record
fell to 6-14 with that loss.

Bridgewater ‘ook control of the
game early, getting six runs in the
top of the first inning. Many of these
runs came off of fielding errors by
the Generals, who could only manage
one run in the entire game. The
Eagles, however, got eight more
runs, to make the final 14-1.

Junior Carter Steuart, who has
been pitching well in these last few
weeks of the season, gave up only
three earned runs in the game.

The Generals, who went 1-3 for the

5th-place finish for women

.

,

.

id

By GARY McCULLOUGH
Staff Reporter

 

Finishing up their second season,
the Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team road tripped to Sweet-

.. briar College this past weekend and
. took fifth place in the Old Dominion

Athletic Conference Championships.
Although there were some mixed

,. emotions before the ODAC cham-

pionship, it was generally agreed

*. that the team had made great strides
~ Since their first season. Entering into
- the tournament with a 5-3 record,
“ there was hope that the team could

finish as high as second.
The Generals, however, ended up

«in fifth place but were still hap-
» py with their performance. There

-was a tie for third and fourth, and the

“team was a scant four points from
» finishing second.

..-, Four of W&L’s nine flights got as
far as the semi-finals of the tourna-

+. ment. They were Valerie Pierson at

No. 5 singles, Benny Savage at No. 6

"singles, Savage and Martha Chris-
«tian at No. 2 doubles, and Teresa
, Southard and Laura Eggers at No. 3

doubles.

 

LAX

 

40) Continued from Page 4

' Roanoke’s Charlie Walker made an
* excellent play to knock the pass down
, and keep the ball from Redfern.

In the second opportunity, the

“Generals asked for a timeout and
4 called a set play. According to Daly,

the Generals first option was not
so W&L waited. When senior

« Bil? Garavente managed to sneak in

behind the defense, the Generals got

"the ball to him and he took a shot

*from point-blank range. The ‘shot
, beat the Roanoke goalie but, unfor-
tunately for the Generals, bounced

* off the crossbar and back into play.

. Nogoal.

“We got the play we wanted,” said
* Daly. “It [the shot] just hit the pipe.”’
. Roanoke started the second over-

time with possession because they
‘held the ball at the end of the first
» overtime, They immediately passed
out front and took a shot that beat
* senior W&L goaltender John Church
» along the ground. Roanoke won the
game, and their seventh consecutive
“ODAC championship, 15-14, just
* seven seconds into the second four-
minute overtime.

“T’d like to thank the fans for com-
«ing out to support us,” said Daly.
, “They were tremendous. It meant a

lot to the players to get applause
* from the fans even though we come
, up a goal short.”

* Last Saturday, the Generals took a

, very costly trip to Chestertown, Md.
Not only did the Generals lose, but

* they also dropped from first to third

, in the USILA Division III lacrosse
poll.

The Sho’men of Washington Col-
* lege ‘came out hungry” according to
» Daly, and blitzed the Generals for
three quick goals. W&L managed to
* score once to make it 3-1, but then the
, Sho’men rattled off five straight
goals to make the score 8-1 early in

’ the second quarter.

+

“T guess we are just used to start-
, ing at 2:00 [the game started at

1:30],”’ joked Daly of the team’s slow
" start.

W&L then scored five straight to
make the score 8-6 at the half, but the
” team never got any closer.
“Tt was a situation where they got
seme momentum, and then they
started to take off,”’ said Daly.

As far as the national playofts go,
‘the final selections and sites will be
announced on Sunday. It is a safe bet
“that, after yesterday’s game, both
» W&L and Roanoke will be included in
the field.

As expected, W&L had to play
Emory and Henry many times. Un-
fortunately, they had to face the
eventual ODAC champions earlier
than they had hoped.

“We did seem to run into Emory
and Henry quite a bit,’”’ said W&L
head coach Bill Washburn. ‘We also
ran in to Randolph-Macon Ashland a
good bit.”’

R-M Ashland finished very closely
behind E&H and presented more pro-
blems for the Generals.

Reiterating the strength of E&H’s
team, Christian said, ‘‘Every time
we won a big match we would have to
play Emory and Henry in the next
round.”” The most disappointing
aspect of the tournament seemed to
be W&L’s inability to steer clear of
E&H in the early rounds.

The tournament, as well as the
season, however, were regarded pro-
udly by the team. This was only the
Generals second season, and they
made tremendous strides by posting
a winning record as well as
fifth place in the conference tourna-
ment. Said Christian,’ ‘‘Last year we
were in ninth, and this is only our se-
cond year and we came in fifth.”

      
 

program and you

   

ROUTE 1, BOX 438,

Midway

   

PIZZA SERVED

TUITION ASSISTANCE
FOR YOU

We have an excellent tuition assistance

hour while saving!
through the summer for Fall semester.
Come and Catch the SPIRIT!

ca DOMINO’S Pizza
463-4375

For Quality Accommodation
& Dining Call

Quality Inn"

703-377-2604

Lexington & Staunton.
Take exit 54 off I-81

week, took what Stickley called ‘‘the
hardest loss of the season”’ from the
Eastern Mennonite Royals.

The Generals trailed 7-1 after three
innings, but managed to rally back,
scoring nine runs during the last four
innings of the game.

With two out in the bottom of the
ninth inning, the Royals blasted a
three-run homer to tie the game, sen-
ding the teams to extra innings.

A run in the eleventh inning once
again put the Generals on top, and
soon they were again only one out
away from the win. The Royals
scored two in their at-bats, however,
to snatch away the victory, 12-11.

Extra-inning heart-breakers have
played an unenjoyably big role in the
Generals’ season, and they will need
to improve in this area in order to be
a winning team. The best asset to
have is experience, and the Generals,
who lose only a handful of seniors,
will probably be winning more of
those close games next season.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1987, Page 5

‘Baseball and golf turn in disappointing performances

Bridgewater eases by Generals, 7-4

 

Gammage grabs all-ODAC honors

 

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

There is nothing that can replace
actual competition. Practice can be
made to simulate real-game situa-
tions, but it doesn’t come close to be-
ing a substitute for the pressure one
faces in the heat of battle. For the
Washington and Lee golf team, this
fact was never more evident than in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference championship at the
Roanoke Countryside Club on Mon-
day and Tuesday.

Trailing by only two strokes after
the first round, the Generals wilted
on the second day of play and finish-
ed a disappointing fifth out of the six
teams competing. W&L’s two-round
total of 654 was a full 12 strokes
behind winner Lynchburg’s score of
642.

“That was only our ninth com-

petitive round this season,” said
head coach Buck Leslie. ‘‘That’s a
minus for us. These other teams have
played 18 to 20 rounds.

“It’s no excuse. We could have
played all those rounds and still
came out and shot the way we did,
but it put us ata disadvantage.”

“When you don’t play this game
often enough, you can’t expect to be
consistent.’’

Consistent was how junior co-
captain Chip Gist was playing before
spring break. Gist was the lowest
scorer in ODAC play heading into the
final ODAC regular season match.
Gist shot an uncharacteristic 88 in
that tournament and backed that per-
formance up with a just as sluggish
168 total (85-83) in the championship.

“Chip was a lock for NCAA’s [the
national Division ITI tournament] go-

ing into the break,”’ said Leslie. ‘He
led the ODAC in scoring and then he
just never got it back.”

The Generals did get an outstand-
ing performance from junior John
Gammage, who carded a 157 (78-79),
good enough to earn him all-ODAC
honors.

“John has an outside chance to go
to Nationals,” said Leslie. ‘‘His last
three outings have been very good.
He played very well.”’

Other scorers for the Generals
were junior Gary Campbell with a
163 (78-85) and sophomore Pete Cole-
man with a 167 (80-87). Paul DiPaolo
of Lynchburg was the medalist with a
149 (75-74).

Roanoke finished second in the
team standings, while Hampden-
Sydney and Randolph-Macon tied for
third. Bridgewater ended up in last
place, some 48 strokes off the pace.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| —i(s«CWWL Athlete of the Week

Ee eS RE SAME IRL RMSE PEER EEL BERR TT EN ENE
By JOHN PACKETT
Staff Reporter

 

Freshman Wes Boyd has been
named Washington & Lee’s Athlete of
the Week for his performance at
Saturday’s ODAC Track Champion-
ships.

Boyd won the 100-and 200-meter
dashes and ran the third leg of the
first place mile-relay team on his
way to helping the Generals win the
championship by 55 points.

He also took third in the long jump

and helped the 400-meter relay team
place second.

His performance in the 100 and 200
also kept him undefeated in the
ODAC for the two events.

“] thought I ran really well con-
sidering the weather conditions dur-
ing the meet,” said Boyd.

“T also felt the whole team had a
clutch performance that enabled us
to win the championship.”

By placing first in the 100 and 200
Boyd has a chance to compete at

qualifying meets for the Division III
championships. The meets are held
in the next two weeks at James
Madison and UVa.

Boyd’s time in the 100 was 11.2 and
he feels that if he has a good start and
the weather is nice he could make the
National qualifying time.

“I think I have a better shot at
making the Nationals in the 100 but I
could also make it in the 200; it all
depends on my start,” said Boyd.

Boyd didn’t just run track for the
Generals this year. He also played
guard on the basketball team.

“T started running track in junior
high school and was also playing
basketball. In high school I gave up
track to concentrate on basketball,”
said Boyd.

In his senior year in high school,
the track coach asked Boyd to come
out and run for the team and he did.

Boyd said that he came to W&L as
a basketball recruit but also talked to
track coach Norris Aldridge. This
made him decide to compete in both
sports at the collegiate level.

 

can earn $5-$9 per
Work now and

yhety

Raphine

RAPHINE, VIRGINIA 24472

between

HERE, TO GO,

OR DELIVERED

   
       
   
 
  
     
       
    
        

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy®
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mor.-
Fri., and any time Sai. &
Sun.

¢ Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri,).

* Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

he en

¢ Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

¢ Each Wednesday night,
§:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only $3.49. Children under 6
years-99',

 

 

Pizza
Hut.

 

© 1985 Pizza Hut, Inc

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington

 

463-7000

 

work faster
0 640K RAM
on your eyes

o Up to seven expansion slots.
0 Dual floppy configuration

Retail $2,905
W&L price $1,495

or $53.30 per month*

Headquarters:
Charlottesville, Va.
(804) 296-7560

 

o Clock, calendar, color graphics support--all standard
o Exceptionally high-resolution. 640 x 400 graphics make it easy

0 RS232C serial and Centronics parallel ports standard

0 Optional 20 Mb hard disk system available

If you are a student,
and you have a major credit card,
and you have a part-time job,

you have credit with ATT.

USE YOUR CREDIT

FOR

THE AT&T PC6300:
COMPATIBLE. EXPANDABLE.
FLEXIBLE. AND SALE PRICED.

0 Powerful 8086 16-bit processor executes at 8 MHz; lets you

Cw)

——"

ATs

Now at a special price for students, faculty and staff of Washington and Lee University only. Come see the
AT&T PC6300 at our new Satellite location at the University Bookstore. A Dynabyte representative is available
the first and third Fridays of each month.

DYNABYT:

Computer Products

*17% APR approved credit, 36 mo, Prices do not include tax and are subject to change without notice.

 

 

 

 

 

University Bookstore
Lexington, Va.

 

 

a
 

BACK PAGE

    

U2 ready to

conquer world

By CHARLIE GAY
Record Critic

 

“The Joshua Tree,’’ U2’s follow-up

to 1984’s commercially successful but
artistically disappointing ‘‘The Un
orgettable Fire,’ is a_ brilliantly
evocative album that atones for the
failures of its predecessor. Although
this cut, the band’s second venture
into the studio with producer Brian
Eno, is much in the same polished
style as ‘The Forgettable Album”’, in
contrast, “‘The Joshua Tree’’ does
not choose to drown out guitars with
swirling keyboards in the tradition of
‘“Promenade’.”’ Essentially, U2’s
atest release is ‘‘The Unforgettable
ire’ with testosterone.

At first listen, the album’s initial
track ‘Where the Streets Have No
Name’’ may send shivers down your
spine — it recalls one of ‘‘The Forget-

table Album’s’’ most abysmal
failures, ‘“‘MLK’’, with its opening
notes. The song soon evolves,
however, into a _ hopeful tune

highlighted the Edge’s pulsing, fu-
sion guitar work. The balance of the
first side is equally impressive. ‘I
Still Haven’t Found What I’m Look-
ing For’ and the current hit single
“With Or Without You”’ are much in
the same, emotionally evocative
vein. “With Or Without You” might
also scare at first earful, as it sounds
like it lacks the necessary
testosterone content early on. By the
climax of the song, however, the
edge’s slashing guitar is in full force,
meshing perfectly with the rhythm
section of bassist Adam Clayton and
drummer Larry Mullen Jr. “Exit” is
another fine melody off the second
side.

Despite these steller tunes, the
masterpiece of ‘‘The Joshua Tree”’ is
undoubtedly ‘Bullet The Blue Sky,”
which marks a momentary return to
U2’s raw early days. Here the Edge’s

biting guitar work is reminiscent of
that off “Boy's” classic “Electric
Co.’’ But the standout feature of the
cut, as well as most of the album, is

U2’s ‘‘The Joshua Tree”’

sono’s breathtaking vocals. They
are, in turn, emotional, firey,
sincere, and hopeful. They are also
probably his finest album perfor-
mance to date.

In sum, “The Joshua Tree” suc-
ceeds in the same country that ‘“The
Unforgettable Fire” failed in — it is

Roger and Eric come home

By MICHAEL TUGGLE
Entertainment Editor

 

lhe chapel was quiet, a little
solemn maybe. The stage lights
criss-crossed onto the stage, illum
nating the solitary pair of stools sit-
ing there. Shadows from the lights
sat on the walls as if waiting for
omeone to come home.

Slowly, people, friends trickled into
the chapel pews and, like the
shadows, waited for someone to

ome home. It would not be a world-
class pianist, or an international
orass ensemble, or a winner of the

chaikovsky competition — No, not
ionight. Only family could ever come
‘ome to the hallowed chapel.

Just as I looked down to check the
ume, a single clap came from some-
one in one of the back pews, followed
by another, and another, and
another. Two men dressed in tuxedos

approached; guitars in hand. As the
clapping subsided, the two caught
each other’s eye, breathed in, and
sang.

“Amazing Grace, how sweet the
sound...’ cut into the silence as the
sweet a capella melody rolled over
the chapel gathering. “I once was
lost, but now am found. Was blind,
but now I see.”

Silence filled the chapel as the final
notes floated into the pews, and Eric
Heinsohn and Roger Day grinned as
if tosay, ‘“‘Isn’t it great to be home.”’

In the coming years there will be
more grins, and more ‘‘thank you’
nods of the head, just as there were
tonight. Yet it is questionable
whether or not Heinsohn and Day will
ever give a performance that is any
better, or more memorable than
Monday night’s; their first in Lee
Chapel.

As “Jenny” started things running,
it was obvious that everyone present

was in store for a truly special even-
ing of music. ‘‘Alabama in the Morn-
ing,” ‘‘After the Snowfall’, “Along
the Road,” and the other twelve
original compositions were so good,
and so reminiscent of Jim Croce,
Harry Chapin, James Taylor, and
Simon and Garfunkel that one
wonders why Heinsohn and Day are
not already signed to a major record-
ing label.

They played together beautifully,
each following the other’s lead, and
then they broke, each one playing a
solo section to showcase hits in-
dividual talent. Day’s ‘“‘Goodbye to
the Game” was only overshadowed
by his instrumental on guitar, while
Heinsohn’s exceptional Mississippi
Blues composition using both guitar
and harmonica left no doubts about
his ability to handle a guitar.

As the duo finished up ‘‘Mudpack,”’
their encore about a not so beautiful
woman, the glances and the smiles

Police Academy bombs

By MICHAEL TUGGLE
Movie Critic

 

When I saw Emilio Estevez’s
Wisdom in the fall, | was almost sure
that it would be the worst film of the
year. It was poorly written, poorly
acted, and the Rambo-Robin Hood-
Bonnie and Clyde premise of saving
the poor by blowing up mortgages at
banks across the country was in-
credibly sophomoric. If you are ques-
tioning how I could call Wisdom the
worst film of the year, then ponder no
longer because there is one that’s
worse

Police Academy 4 in all truth should
never have been released. It is by far
cand after Wisdom, Shanghai Sur-
prise, and Howard the Duck this is

saying a lot) the worst film of the
year and an embarrassment to any-
one associated with it.

The first Police Academy was
relatively funny. Steven Guttenberg
stole the show as the screwed up
Mahoney, but the supporting cast of
David Graf (Tackleberry), Michael
Winslow (Jones), and Leslie Easter-
brook (Callahan) put in solid back-up
performances to help make the film a
commercial success. Police Academy
2 was almost as bad as 4, but did in-
troduce Tim Kazurinsky and Bob
Goldthwait into the series.

The third film rivaled the first in
terms of being funny, but still seem-
ed to be missing something, and
didn’t reach the public like the first
one had. If Police Academy 3 was
missing something, then Police
Academy 4 is missing everything.

Guttenberg, who has been one of
the constant sources of humor in past
films, is scarcely in the frame. Tim
Kazurinsky, who was hilarious as
“Dr. Tim” on the ‘Saturday Night
Live’ newscast a few years ago, is
dull and totally lifeless. Bob
Goldthwait gives the only decent per-
formance in the film, yet even he
fails to display any of the comic
genius that we witnessed in his HBO
special, ‘Share the Warmth.” As for
the other characters, they belong on
the cutting room floor along with the
rest of this film.

There is absolutely nothing worth-
while to say aboutPolice Academy 4 .
It’s lifeless, it’s boring, it has ab-
solutely no plot, and it’s only an hour
and ten minutes long. If you go, you
deserve what you get.

TUG’S TAG — BOMB

Applications now being accepted
for editor and business manager of
The Ring-tum Phi and Calyx, and
editors of the Ariel and Political
Review. Turn applications in to
Carol Calkins by Tuesday, May 5.

Greek Week ’87

May 4-11]

Benefiting the United Way
and the Homeless Shelter
Come out and support the Greeks

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 30, 1987

an evocative mood piece, yet it is not
hindered by commercial concerns or
just plain lack of bite. Yet, unlike
some “mood” albums, individual
songs aren’t largely forgettable. I ad-

vise that you go out and buy this

album, or better yet, go out and
charge the CD at the bookstore.

returned to their faces. They bowed,
they grinned, and bowed again as the
applause held them on the edge of the
stage. After two or three minutes, the
clapping and whistling finally subsid-
ed and Heinsohn and Day, Eric and
Roger, came down into the audience
to talk with their friends, professors,
and old classmates. Some of the
gathered listeners winded their way
around clumps of conversation, and
wandered out into the night air,
where quicker admirers were buying
Heinsohn and Day cassettes brought
down from the bookstore.

After twenty minutes or so, the
security guard flashed the lights
signaling everyone that it was time to
lock up. The evening of original com-
positions was over, but not really.
Roger and Eric started here and
they’ll soon return -for another visit
home. Maybe they’ll do a 4th of July
concert in Glen Maury Park — or is
that Central Park?

 

 

CALENDAR

Thursday, April 30
4:30 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘‘Noncognitive Variables in Minority Student
Retention,’’ William Sedlacek, director of Cultural Center, University
of Maryland, College Park. duPont Auditorium. For information, call
Dean Anece McCloud, 463-8766.

 

Friday, May 1
8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘America’s Fascination with the West,”’ Sarah
Boehme, curator, Whitney Gallery of Western Art, Buffalo Bill
Historical Center, duPont Auditorium. Reception to follow in duPont
Gallery. Public invited.

Saturday, May 2
ALL DAY — MOCK CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION. Warner
Center. Public invited.
7 a.m. — BIRDWALK: Woods Creek parking lot (near W&L law
school). Led by Dr. Peter Bergstrom.
8 p.m. — Noh Hayashi Music and Dance Performance. Lime Kiln
Theatre. Admission charge.
8 p.m, — JEWISH STUDENT UNION FILM: “Garden of the Finzi
Sontinis.”’ Public invited. (Contact Richard Marks, 463-8788. )

Sunday, May 3
Law School reading days end.
8 p.m. — LECTURE/DEMONSTRATION: Noh Hayashi Music and
Dance. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Monday, May 4
Registration for Fall Term begins.
3 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘Particle Physics and Cosmology,” Dr. Max
Dresden, Suny-Stony Brook. Room 201 Parmly Hall. Coffee at 2:30.
7 p.m. —SHAKESPEARE ON FILM: “‘Hamlet.” Room 20? Reid Hall.
8 p.m. — LECTURE: ‘‘Scientific Personalities,” Dr. Max Dresden,
SUNY-Stony Brook. Room 327 Commerce School.
8 p.m. — SLIDE LECTURE: “Sedimentological Investigation of a
Suspect Terrance,” Mike Follo '79, geology dept. UNC-Chapel Hill.
Rom 206 Howe Hall.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Southern Comfort and Hollins College pop
ensemble. Lee Chapel.

Tuesday, May 5
4 p.m. — WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Hollins College.

 

TE cnnnnnnrrrlnernnrckeeerccc0ccccccclliittddaa

IL.

 

Want to write for
The Ring-tum Phi?
Come by room 200 of

the University Center
and sign up!!!

aaa
oe

Canterbury Fellowship

R. E. Lee Memorial Church
123 West Washington Street

Lexington, Virginia 24450

(703) 463-4981

The South American Missionary Society of the
Episcopal Church (SAMS) is in need of sum-

mer ’87 help at their headquarters in Union
Mills, NC for about a week around the 11th of

July.

The work would

involve general

maintenance or construction work and some
instruction in missionary projects that could
be taken on by a group the following summer
in Central or South America. Transportation
to plus meals and sleeping accommodations
at Union Mills would be provided. This would
be a great opportunity to learn of your
church’s mission projects in Central and
South America. If interested, please call
Steven Riethmiller, VMI Chemistry Depart-
ment, 463-7749 (H) or 6244 (QO).

 

 
