 

 

Run it

 

* VOLUME 8, NUMBER 23

W&L track team
continues undefeated

 
   
    
  

Page 4

he Ring-tum Phi

 

Sing it

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Rockers fake it
to help raise money

Page 3

  

r

IVA
he tty bea "Es

ee

" i &@ Loe >

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Your get-your-act-together weather
Highs this weekend in 60s;
cooler Sunday

 

MARCH 26, 1987

 

‘Keeling
speaks
frankly

'

» By JOHN PENSEC
News Editor

 

,

“We have to talk about things that

are sometimes embarrassing,” said
* Dr. Richard Keeling, chairman of the
Task Force on AIDS for the
American College Health Associa-
* tion.
AIDS is one of those things.
Keeling told a large Lee Chapel
t audience last Thursday night that
risk groups don’t matter anymore,
risk behavior does.
> On a risk scale, with 1.0 equalling
no risk, Keeling gave risk factors for
sexual practices commonly associ-
> ated with AIDS.

Passive anal sex carries a risk fac-
tor of 2.1, while active anal sex car-
' ries a risk factor of 1.3. Combined ac-
, tive and passive practices carry a

risk factor of 2.5.

* Anal sex is the most common mode
of transmission of the AIDS virus,
but the virus is not limited to the
‘ homosexual community.
, Oral sex on a male carries a risk
factor of 1.01, he said, although it is
' difficult to prove if there is a risk at
» all.
Keeling said that oral sex on a

Liberal
activist
to speak

"From Staff Reports

 

 

,

Abbie Hoffman, a political activist
for more than two decades, will
' deliver a lecture at 7:30 p.m., Thurs-
#day, March 26, in Lee Chapel on the

campus of Washington and Lee
" University. The lecture is free and
*# open to the public.

j Hoffman’s appearance is spon-
sored by Contact, a joint effort of the
* Washington and Lee Interfraternity
» Council and the student body Ex-
ecutive Committee.
‘ Hoffman began his career as an ac-
, tivist in the early 1960s when he work-
ed in the civil rights movement
' organizing voter registration drives
; inthe south. He began demonstrating
against the Vietnam War in 1964. Hof-
“fman came to national prominence
» during the 1968 Democratic National

Convention when he helped organize

* a demonstation that resulted in the

t

~

~

By CHRISTIE CHAMPLIN
'| Staff Reporter

 

 

 

 

Dr. Richard Keeling

woman probably carries little, if any
risk. Any risk it carries is heighten-
ed, he said, during the woman’s men-
strual period.

Keeling distinguished between
casual kissing and deep kissing, with
casual kissing carrying no risk. The
problem with deep kissing, Keeling
said, is how to tell ‘when kissing
becomes deep.’’

He added that deep kissing is like
nausea. ‘‘You know it when you have
=e

After discussing risk factors Keel-
ing spoke of more ideological issues.
He said it is important not to think of
AIDS as a moral agent, nor as a
“Tightning bolt from Lynchburg,”’ as
some people think of it, referring to

 

the Rev. Jerry Falwell. AIDS, Keel-
ing said, is ‘‘an accident of history.”
Keeling explained that people can
have the virus for up to 10 years
without experiencing any effects.
The age group with the most number
of AIDS cases is the 30-39 year old
group. With the incubation period
lasting up to 10 years, many in that
age group contracted the disease
during their young adulthood.

The sicker the virus makes people,
the less likely they are to spread the
virus. Conversely, Keeling said,
those who are infected with AIDS and
do not show any symptoms are usual-
ly unaware they have the disease and
are therefore more likely to spread
AIDS.

  

 

 

Chicago Seven conspiracy trial.

In 1973 Hoffman went underground
but still managed to remain political-
ly active. When the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers proposed a year-round
barge canal for the Thousand Island
region where he was living, Hoffman
organized a successful grass-roots
campaign against the project.
Without knowing his identity, both
the governor of New York and U.S.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan
publicly praised Hoffman’s leader-
ship. He was appointed to a federal

 

writers a break.

tion of the series.

ing before,”’ said LaRue.

she said.

Random House is doing something rare these days — they’re giving

The publishing house is printing a series featuring “writers who are
young, for the most part, or who have been writing for the past few years,”
‘| said Sue LaRue, the general books buyer for the Washington and Lee
+] Bookstore. These novels, however, are not necessarily just off the presses.
Some have been in publication for a few years; however, they fit the descrip-

‘| The writing is ‘‘good writing’’ and ‘‘new writing that people weren’t notic-

She also said that Random House thought these books were good and
>| would be bought by people if they saw them.
“They are packaged so they are immediately noticeable as a concept,”

, The packaging format used by Random House represents a new concept in
publishing. Random House is also trying to exercise a type of quality control
over the writers present in the series. It wants to prevent people from being
»| turned off, hopefully yielding a purchasing continuity. If a reader buys and
likes one of the novels, he should buy more of them.

This series featuring ‘exciting new writers’’ has been selling well. ‘‘They
+ | have been doing the series for at least one year, but this is the first
tume they have offered it to us in a display,” said LaRue. Some of the books
offered are A Fan’s Notes, by Frederick Exley, Bright Lights, Big City, by Jay
‘ | McInerney Bushwacked Piano, Something to be Desired, and Nobody's Angel,
by Thomas McGuame, and Cathedral, by Raymond Carter.

A Fan’s Notes, ‘‘an underground classic,”’ is one of the novels that has been
available for a long time. “It fits the series so they (Random House)
repackaged it to look like the rest of them, even though it had looked dif-
ferent before,’”’ explained LaRue. Bright Lights, Big City is one of the best

» | sellers in the series, while the three novels written by Thomas McGuame

were being bought before the new packaging and display. Raymond Carter
performed readings from his works on campus earlier this year. His novel,
+ | Cathedral, is read by a lot of students in the English classes, said LaRue.

LaRue added that there is another series published by Penguin similar to
Random House’s Vintage Contemporary Series that she is beginning to buy,
1 | but these novels are not displayed like the Vintage series.

Abbie Hoffman

water resource commission while
still a fugitive.

Hoffman is the author of seven
books. His latest, Square Dancing in
the Ice Age, is now available in paper-
back. Recent magazine articles have
appeared in “‘Parade Weekly” and
“Esquire” magazines.

Hoffman currently works with en-
vironmental groups throughout the
Great Lakes and the Northeast. He
has just returned from Nicaragua
and is working to mobilize opposition
to U.S. policy in Central America.

y

BIG

Paw
ie

R A

 

Court dismisses
VMI cadets’ cases

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

 

Four of the six Virginia Military In-
stitute cadets arrested for disorderly
conduct after a brawl at the Phi Kap-
pa Psi fraternity house on March 1
have had their cases dismissed in
Lexington’s General District Court.

Cadets Raphael Barsamian,
Michael Balao, William Cario and
Allan Stoneman had their cases
dismissed Tuesday afternoon
because according to Judge Joseph
E. Hess, ‘‘There has to be more than
presence at an unlawful gathering
for there to be a charge for disorderly
conduct.”

Judge Hess said that the cadets
have been charged with failure to
disperse, but there was no cause for a
charge of disorderly conduct.

Cadet Pablo Antonio Martinez, who
chose not to have an attorney, pled
guilty to the charge of disorderly con-
duct and was fined $25.

 

By TIMOTHY McMAHON
Staff Reporter

 

Although the size of the average
class section at Washington and
Lee has remained stable at 15 the
past two years, there has been a
slight increase in the number of
classes with more than 30 stu-
dents.

According to figures provided
by University Registrar D. Scott
Dittman, the winter term increase
is nearly 3 percent over last year.
Dittman added, however, that
there was a dropoff in the number
of sections with 31 to 40 students
last year, and that figures from
the previous year indicate the in-
crease actually could be closer to
one percent. He could not explain
last year’s dropoff.

Dean of the College John Elrod
attributes increases in class size
to three things: the General
Education Requirements, a high-
er total credit requirement than in

 

The charges stemmed from an in-
cident that occurred on the evening
of March 1. Two cadets were denied
entrance to a party at the Phi Psi
house and said they were beaten
after identifying themselves as VMI
cadets.

They returned to the barracks and
word of what happened spread. A
group of approximately 75 cadets left
the post and proceeded to Phi Psi.

Sergeant T. H. Pedersen, in his
testimony at the trial, said that the
cadets were, ‘Running and jogging
in a very defined column. Several of
them had their hands taped to protect
their knuckles.”’

The group of cadets circled around
the back of the fraternity house and
were met by several members of the
fraternity. The police were on the
scene and were trying to keep the two
groups apart.

According to Capt. Harold Will-
cockson, the deputy commandant,
none of the approximately 75 cadets
who were at the scene, besides those
that were arrested, received any
punishment. ‘‘We couldn’t find them

-\Sgs ese ee atapenen iene iki: orca er ae nee creer ee,

Classes remain stable

the past, and a higher than op-
timal number of history pro-
fessors on leave thisterm. >

Indeed, a January 20 memo
from Dittman to Elrod shows one-
fourth of the sections with more
than 40 students are in the history
department, and this term three
history professors are on leave of
absence.

Also, since 1984 the University
has required students to graduate
with 121 rather than 115 credits.

Elrod further noted that while
the former distribution credit
system required students to take
only about one-quarter of their
classes for distribution, the
General Education Requirements
make up more than one-third of a
student’s credit load. With more
students required to take specific
classes, Elrod said, those classes
will tend to increase in size.

Elrod said the administration is
concerned that increased class
size will mean decreased stu-

and couldn’t identify them so we
couldn’t do anything to them,’ he
said.

These cadets managed to return to
post without being seen by guards
who had been placed on duty with
orders to identify cadets who were
trying to sneak back in. None were
caught.

Phi Psi president John McDonald
said he was upset by the decision and
that Phi Psi now has a policy pro-
hibiting cadets from their parties.
“Just as long as they understand
they can’t come back. They ruined it
for everyone else over there.”’

Interfraternity Council President
and Phi Psi member Chris Saxman
was very annoyed with the decision.
“You have got to be kidding me!
That is absolutely ridiculous! They
come over to our house and do that? I
can’t believe they got off.”’

Six cadets and one Washington and
Lee student were arrested. The two
remaining cases, W&L junior
Michael McEvoy and cadet Brand-
ner Lawrence, will be heard April 28.

dent/teacher interaction. But, he
added, the administration is look-
ing into ways to maintain such in-
teraction.

Another administration concern
is how the planned increase in the
undergraduate student population
from the current 1428 to a max-
imum of 1500 will affect the stu-
dent/teacher ration. Ideally,
Elrod said, the University would
like to maintain close to a 10-1
ratio.

Increased class sizes and the ex-
pected increase in the student
body over the next few years
could be offset by increasing the
number of professors. Elrod,
University President John Wilson
and Associate Dean of the College
H. Thomas Williams currently are
meeting with departmental repre-
sentatives to discuss questions
such as class size and office
space, but as yet there are no
definite plans to increase staff
size or office space significantly.

 

 

   

MY tc
BRIGHT LIGHTS

 

Vintage

Series promotes novels

rN y

 

cit F

 

‘

‘Arambunctious, deadly funny novel that goes
right for the mark—the human heart.
Y MOND ‘

te ee ee a

 

Financial aid
is threatened

By MARIE DUNNE
Editorial Page Editor

 

 

 

 

 

Students who have student loans
may no longer be eligible for those
loans due to changes in federal laws,
said John DeCourcy, director of
financial aid for undergraduates at
Washington and Lee University.

In October of 1986 Congress
reauthorized the higher education
bill of 1965 and enacted several key
changes to the bill.

“Congress made some very signifi-
cant changes as to who can get aid
and who can’t and their status, and it
made changes beginning in January
of ’87, in other words in the middle of
anacadamic year,” said DeCourcy.

The biggest change concerns the
Guaranteed Student Loan program.
Previously, families that made less
than $30,000 a year could borrow
their estimated contribution to their
education expenses rather than take
it out of their own pocket, said
DeCourcy.

Students find out what their
estimated contribution should be for
each year by filling out a Financial
Aid Form and sending to the College
Service in Princeton. After eval-
uating the financial information sup-
plied by the student and the family,
the College Service states how much
the family can afford to put toward
educational costs.

Because of the recent changes in
the financial aid regulations, no
students may borrow their estimated

contribution through a Guaranteed
Student Loan, said DeCourcy.
Guaranteed Student Loans are still
available to students to cover educa-
tional expenses that exceed their
estimated contribution.

“(Families) made an educated
decision. They sat down and com-
pared costs and whatnot and
methods of payment, and said, ‘okay,
we can handle W&L.’ Now all of a
sudden the GSL rug has been pulled
right out from underneath them,”
said DeCourcy.

DeCourcy believes the changes in
financial aid regulations may affect
student enrollment.

“T think because of costs we've
always had trouble competing (with
other schools), and this just makes
that gap wider,” said DeCourcy.

Fortunately, some students who do
qualify for Guaranteed Student
Loans will de eligible to receive more
money in loans, because the loan
limits went up, said DeCourcy.

Students who are under 24 and
make less than $4,000 a year will
automatically be considered depen-
dents of their parents even if they
support themselves and do not live at
home, according to the new financial
aid rules.

DeCourcy said many students,
especially law students, are finding
their status changing from indepen-
dent to dependent and vice versa

‘‘What this means is that we’ve had
people change status in the middle of

See Change, page 3
 

 

OPINION
Help?

The government has done it again.

The changes in financial aid regulations has made an
already difficult system impossible.

Under the changes, some students who supported them-
selves are being declared dependents of their parents.

Students previously eligible for Guaranteed Student Loans
are no longer able to count on such loans.

The banks sponsoring the loans are being told by the
government that after a few years, interest rates on in-
dividual loans will change. Loans under one interest rate will
automatically change to another interest rate. This will
Cause major problems in paperwork for the banks, and many
banks will no longer be a part of the Guaranteed Student
Loan program, making loans harder for students to get.

The timing of the changes is another questionable move of
the government. The changes came into effect halfway
through an academic year. Students eligible for loans in one
half of the year may not be eligible in the second half.
Students independent during the fall semester may be con-
sidered dependent during the winter and spring terms.

Why? Congress seems eager to crack down on students
who manipulate the financial aid system in order to get loans
and aid, when they can afford to pay for college.

However, in the making the system tougher to cheat, Con-
gress has made financial aid unavailable to students who
need it.

Congress needs to cut it’s expenditures. But to cut financial
aid programs outright would cause a flurry of lobbying and
public outcry, and would prompt time-consuming arguing.

So instead of cutting the programs, Congress makes finan-
cial aid so difficult to receive and the application process so
confusing that students (especially students applying to com-
munity colleges or state universities) will forget about col-
lege before they wade through the mountain of paperwork in-
volved. Thus, funds for financial aid may not be used.

Conceivably, 20 years from now when there is a shortage of
people with college degrees, the government will criticize to-
day’s leaders for making financial aid difficult to receive.

However, that isn’t much comfort for the student strug-
gling to pay college costs today.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 26, 1987

 

 

acscbilaaaen

“Well req,if you bought the textbook to
you 3 till have a week 1 study te

before firals... ;

 

 

 

 

 

Jim and Tammy
prayin’ for pennies

 

MY VIEW

By Jeff Kelsey

 

The massive invasion of television
into the American living room since
the 1950s has produced audiovisual
classics alongside the worst artistic
endeavors civilization has ever seen.
But we realize the fact that not all
television can be good television, so
we accept impeccably bad shows like
“Silver Spoons,”’ ‘‘BJ and the Bear,”
“The Dukes of Hazzard”’ and “The A
Team” as long as we get a weekly fix
of “Cheers,” “‘MASH”’ or ‘Monday
Night Football.”

But without a doubt one of the
worst results of this age of mass com-
munication has been the TV evan-
gelist. That never-ending procession
of Billy Bob Smiths who announce in
a Southern twang, “Friends, I had a
vision last night. And the vision came
unto me and said Billy Bob raise me
some money. So, I ask you to send me
your money.”’ Most of the time these
modern-day prophets don’t even war-
rant consideration, but lately they
have succeeded in gaining my atten-
tion, if not in prayer then at least ina
good laugh.

Let’s take for example Jim and
Tammy Faye Bakker (pronounced
ba’ker, as in rolling in dough),
founders of the Praise The Lord Club
(PTL). In case you are not familiar
with Jim and Tammy, I’ll give a brief
description. Jim, well he’s pretty
much your typical yuppie evangelist
while Tammy has a lot of blond hair

and even more mascara that even-
tually ends up on her face because
she invariably cries on every show.

Anyway the PTL was running
along like a greased pig at a county
fair, pulling in around $130 million
per year. Not bad for a non-profit
organization. Jim’s latest project, a
$10 million ‘‘Water Slide for God’’
(a.ka. Heritage USA) had just been
completed and Jim and Tammy’s
his-and-her Mercedes were just back
from the shop and purring like kit-
tens. But, alas, all good things must
come to an end and Jim and Tam-
my’s world came crashing down. Jim
was forced to resign his position as
head of PTL to Jerry Falwell be-
cause of some undisclosed sexual im-
proprieties. Tammy Faye admitted
an addiction to prescription medica-
tion and checked into a rehab.

Now, I’m not one to gloat over
another man’s misfortune, but let’s
look at this ridiculous situation. Here
is a man who for years has gotten
rich through a form of spiritual
blackmail, and whose victims are
mostly the poor or elderly who can-
not afford to lose any of their income.
Things would be bad enough if Jim
were simply a con artist type, like a
modern day Elmer Gantry, but he
probably really has good intentions
so the term hypocrite seems ap-
propriate. The whole scene really is
ludicrous: this so-called man of God
guilty of sexual misconduct and his
wife a drug addict. It seems obvious
that P.T. Barnum’s addage ‘‘No one
ever lost money underestimating the
intelligence of the American public”
still holds true. Only in America.
“Praise the Lord.”’

Computer registration creates correctable problems

 

three classes. The margin for error is
much smaller then.

The first big problem with the
system was that too many students
felt they had to line-up excessively
early and skip classes to get the
schedules they wanted. Look here,
this is registration, not a rock concert

MY VIEW —
By Jennifer Spreng

 

I think the new On-Line registra-

 

 

tion system is good. I’m not going to
pretend that it worked perfectly, and
no one should have expected it to do
so. One of the cruel truisms of data
processing is that no system works
properly the first few times it is used.

However, just because computeriz-
ing scheduling may be well-advised
in the long run doesn’t mean that the
system as used for Spring term
registration is satisfactory. There
are at least 3 changes that will have
to be made, or registration for Fall
and Winter next year could get really
out of hand. After all, Spring term is
relatively simple, because most
students only register for two or

ticket line! If students feel they must
miss class to register, the system is
wrong. That type of first-come-first-
served system gives enormous ad-
vantage to students who take only
afternoon classes, especially if those
morning classes have attendance re-
quirements. I also have to question
any University policy that en-
courages class-cutting.

This problem wouldn’t be difficult
to solve. All the registrar’s office
would have to do is to schedule
registration for times when there are
no classes — like a couple Saturdays,
or four evenings from 7:00 to 11:00.
Very few students actually

 

 

 

Cee ee eee wee ee ee
EDITORIAL COMMENT

The Midwest is known as the breadbasket of the United
States because it provides much of the nation’s food. It also
provides Washington and Lee with a large number of its aa-
ministrators.

Shari Anderson, W&L’s new director of personnel, joins a
long line of administrators, including Deans Elrod and Pep-
pers, University Librarian Barbara Brown and last, but cer-
tainly not least, the president of the University himself, com-
ing to W&L from the Midwest.

Surely this influx of midwesterners is a coincidence. But if
the University wants a diverse community, the best place to
start is with the administration. —JFP

registered after lunch anyway, so
three or four hours could probably
get each class registered.

The second problem is that too
many students had to spend upwards
of two hours waiting in line. I’ll grant
that computerization probably saved
the Registrar’s office staff unbe-
lievable amounts of time, but I can’t
believe that the student body didn’t
waste between ten and twenty times
more just standing in line. What does
it matter whose time is being used,
anyway? Time is time, and too much
got wasted during Spring registra-
tion.

That problem becomes worse if
you imagine Fall term registration.
The terminal operators will take
longer to prepare each schedule,
because there will be physically
more to key and print. Unless several
more terminals are added for the
Fall, registration will become a

Black Hole for everyone’s time.

The third problem probably
bothered students who encountered it
more than any other disadvantage of
the new system. I want to preface
this by saying that I realize that not
every student can take every class he
wants, even at a _ school like
Washington and Lee. I also realize
that classes close.

However, this Spring term, too
many classes closed! Worse yet,
after some students changed their
plans new sections opened leaving
those students in the cold.

This problem was exacerbated by
the fact that the majority of the
students getting hosed were
freshmen because the new system
makes them register last. Freshmen
have a problem Spring term, because
they are severly limited in the course
offerings from which they can pick.

They can’t take upper division

courses, because often they don’t
have the prerequisites or class stand-
ing. Potential Commerce School ma-
jors are discouraged from taking too
many courses there until they are
sophomores or juniors. Most in-
troductory courses in the sciences,
mathmatics, fine arts, and numerous
other areas just aren’t offered Spring
term.

Juniors and seniors whodon’t get
the classes they want ‘can dip down
and take 100 and 200 level classes.
Then they push freshmen and sopho-
mores out of the only courses they
can take.

A two-pronged partial solution does
exist, based on the first-come-first-
served concept. Students ought to
have the option to sign ‘waiting
lists” after they register in case new
sections of closed classes open, or
other students drop. This way every
student will have a schedule when he

 

leaves registration, but if the classes -
aren’t his top choices he has a chance
of getting the ones he wants if they
open.

The second part of the solution is to:
offer a limited drop-add period
before the term closes. That way
students who lack credits or are on
waiting lists can settle those pro-
blems early so that students wishing .
to change classes for more caprici-
ous reasons don’t bump them.
This will also take some of the in-
evitable hassle from the Registrar’s .
office out of drop-add week, and they
can solve the serious problems early.

I feel sorry that I abused the
system here, because I like it. I like
being able to pick the sections of a
course I take. Also the computer is
ultimately likely to be more accurate ,
and efficient in the future. However,
in the meantime we have to live with
it, and we should make it as painless .
as possible.

 

“In last week’s issue of the Ring-tum Phi, a letter from three
undergraduates, C. Martin, J. Missert, and T. Bullotta, responded to a Fan-
cy Dress article in the Law Review.

A sentence mistakenly read ‘‘We feel that a 3rd year law student, would
have watched to the extent that blatent rascism, name calling, and
shallowness could be disguished a little better.” The sentence should have
read ‘‘that a 3rd year law student would have matured to the extent...’’ The
Phi regrets the error.

CORRECTION

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

 
 

NEWS STAFF

MOOG Ais vis cecicc ccs ccccrecdeseeseceseueseesuceteccstisvesescceseee Sean Bugg
WOWE TAME, 60. ccccccccccrcectacccenssserevecsinccccevcecesseeneres John Pensec
Managing Editor, Entertainment Editor. ... Marshall Boswell
David Emrich
Photography MOMer.... 6 ccc ccceccccccccsssscetecccccessssscscoseveens Perry Hayes
ASstatant Operte MAMET... csc c cece ccc cececccceccccsccccscecevcesesess Mike Shady
Assignment Editor .............cceeeeceeeeeerereeereecceesesensens Steve Pockrass
EDITORIAL PAGE

Editorial Page Editor .........cccccccsccccsccreseccesceseesvesvecnees Marie Dunne
Cartoomist......cscccsccccccscvccccccsvessscscescccsscvesveresreees Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF

pe ee eer Rhona Hughes
Advertising Manager ..........0ccceccccccccccccccccscssccssscseeeees Robert Jones

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ringtum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

Gentlemen,

As I consider what John D. Wilson and the
Board of Trustees have done to this university in
recent years, I get furious and sad. Then I
wonder when their madness will end.

When faced with a declining applicant pool, the
Board of Trustees took the easy way out and
turned to coeducation, instead of undertaking
more aggressive recruiting efforts. They knew
that by becoming ‘‘mainstream’’ they would in-
crease the applicant pool. In doing so, they
overlooked the tragic costs which they would in-
cur.
It used to be that a W&L grad was easily
distinguishable from a UVA grad, a Williams
grad, or anybody else for that matter. What set
him apart from those other men? First and
foremost he lived by Robert E. Lee’s code of
gentlemanly conduct. This key underlying prin-
ciple was instilled in him during his years at
Washington and Lee. Judging from Standard and
Poor’s poll, W&L also instilled in him the for-
mula for success. Those W&L alumni who put us
in the number eight position of corporate and
business leaders were obviously products of an
all-male W&L. They were the well-rounded
gentlemen that this university produced in years
gone by.

It seems as if Wilson and the Board of Trustees
have decided that to focus on the well-rounded
graduate, both academically and socially, is a
thing of the past. To educate in such a manner
would be to alienate W&L from the mainstream
of American colleges. Is that so bad? President
Wilson, clear your mind of SAT scores and a vi-
sionary nationalized W&L for a moment and
TRY to give me one good reason why W&L
should not preserve its uniqueness and endeavor
to produce the well-rounded W&L Gentleman of
the past.

Juniors and Seniors, many of you have noticed
the drastic changes in the average individual in
the incoming classes. Some of them would be at
home in our classes, but many of them would be
much more at home at a state school. At the rate
these changes are going, the only significant dif-
ference between W&L and schools like UVA will
be size. Is that in the best interest of the universi-
ty? I think not. We may have increased our SAT
scores, but look at the average graduate of the
future and tell me that R.E. Lee would have been
proud to call them Washington and Lee Gentle-
men.

 

 

LETTERS

I still believe that the W&L Gentleman can be
brought back to this campus, even if John D.
Wilson does not understand or approve of such
individuals. The first step towards restoring this
is to phase out coeducation. The second step is
for the Admissions Office to clear their heads of
excessive SAT scores and foolish visionary goals
of a national drawing pool (if potential W&L
gents are residing in the West or even the North,
they will find us.) And finally, we must whole-
heartedly embrace the concept of fraternal
renaissance. No longer can we _ tolerate
ungentlemanly behavior within our fraternity
houses. We, as members of the student body,
must take the initiative to restore Lee’s code of
gentlemanly conduct.

For those of you gentlemen who still believe in
the ideals of the Traditional W&L, you will be
presented with a tremendous opportunity begin-
ning this Thursday at 8:00 p.m. in the Co-op,
where you may add your signature to the petition
demanding that the Board of Trustees phase out
coeducation completely by June of 1991.

Sincerely,

Richard B. Robins, Jr.
All-Male W&L ’88

Prejudices are ungentlemanly

An open letter to the men of Washington and
Lee:

I am outraged by the treatment Ms. Pierson
received as a candidate for Secretary of the Ex-
ecutive Committee. The attacks against her
gender were both unfair and in bad taste. In light
of the events of the election, I must commend
Ms. Pierson for the strength she demonstrated,
and I sincerely hope that she and others will not
be discouraged from pursuing elective office in
the future.

Just because we are no longer an all-male in-
stitution does not excuse us of our obligation to
conduct ourselves as gentlemen. Whether we
agreed with coeducation or not, the fact is that
women have been here since 1985, and are here
to stay. As students of Washington and Lee, they
are entitled to the same privileges we would

Robins calls for return of all-male W&L

claim for ourselves — including the right to be
judged on the basis of merit. In 1987, gender,
ethnic background, or religious creed should
never be considered as a qualification for
holding any office or attaining any honor on this
campus. To taint our judgements of others with
petty prejudices is an insult to ourselves as in-
dividuals and our community as a whole.

While I have been informed that the cry for a
return to the days when “‘men-were-men-and-
women-were-here-for-the-weekend”’ emanates
solely from a ‘‘vocal minority’’ of students, the
“silent majority’ has been silent for too long.
Certainly we feel threatened and alienated by
the attention the women have received from the
administration, as a child feels threatened upon
the arrival of a newborn baby — but we are no
longer children. If, indeed, we are men and our
love for this university and the virtues of honor it
represents are more than just rhetoric, our
challenge is to extend our hands in friendship to
our women classmates and welcome them as
members of this community to make coeduca-
tion work. It is a challenge we must accept, for a
“house divided against itself cannot stand.”’

Sincerely,

Michael D. Webb

Black history exhibit featured

To the Editors:

While I greatly appreciate Dana Bolden’s
remarks in last week’s Ring-tum Phi about the
exhibit ‘Don’t Grieve After Me’’ which was at
the University Library February 20 - March 10, I
would like to point out that the most exciting ex-
hibit and the one which required the most work
to put together, ‘‘Lexington’s Black Communi-
ty,”’ was done by my colleague Erin Foley. This
exhibit can be seen in the Boatwright Room of
the University Library from 9-5 Monday through
Friday until June and should not be missed.

Peggy Webster Hays
Public Services and Reference Librarian

 

 
NEWS

Contest
‘helps
charity

By STEVEN POCKRASS
+ Assignments Editor

 

* Not everyone who suffers from

» multiple sclerosis is a child. But
perhaps those who do should be refer-
* red to as “‘Jerry’s Kids.’’ ‘‘Gerald J.
, Darrell’s kids,” that is.
The director of the W&L Food Ser-
* vice, Darrell has been a National
, Multiple Sclerosis Society volunteer
for about seven years. During that
+ time, he’s helped organize fraternity
, Pieeating contests and other events
to help fight MS.

‘But he could outdo himself if next
, Friday's lip-syne contest in the
General Headquarters is successful.

+ Darrell decided to pursue the pro-

ject just after Christmas because he
‘ knew lip-syncing had been a suc-
+ cessful fund-raiser and fun-raiser at
other schools. The event could draw
‘ plenty of laughs and smiles from par-
, ticipants and spectators, and at the
same time could raise a large

 

University

 

 

LIP IT

for

Washington & Lee M S March 27
SY

487

 

 

amount of money, Darrell said.

He said it was especially important
that there be plenty of spectators at
the event.

“There is a concern about apathy
on this campus,”’ Darrell said. The
lip-syne contest will allow students,
faculty members, administrators
and alumni all to get together and
have a good time for a good cause.

The fee for both participants and
spectators is $2, and the first 40 com-
petitors to register will receive free
T-shirts compliments of Pepsi. Par-
ticipants are to pay when they
register and may enter as many
times as they want.

Darrell said people had begun sign-
ing up for the event, and “‘a lot of peo-
ple seem to be talking about it.”’

Originally, the committee that
Darrell formed to organize the con-
test did not want any props at all to
be allowed onstage. Now, however,
there will be three brooms that may
be used as guitars, two drumsticks
and a mock piano, Darrell said. But
no sounds may emanate from the
stage.

The contest starts at 8 p.m. ‘“‘We’ll
go as long as it takes,” Darrell said.

The competition is being sponsored
by WLUR-FM and Pepsi. First prize
is $60, second prize is $40, and third
prize is record albums donated by
WLUR.

Darrell said that if successful, he
would love to make the lip-syne con-
test an annual event.

‘Publisher to give keynote address

»

' From Staff Reports

 

 

, John Seigenthaler, publisher of the
Nashville Tennessean and editorial
* director of USA Today, will give the
, keynote lecture for Washington and
Lee University’s annual Journalism

” Ethics Institute on March 27.
The lecture, entitled, ‘Ethics
Issues in Journalism,’ will be

"presented at 8 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium of Washington and Lee’s
University Library. It is free and
open to the public.

+ The Journalism Ethics Institute is
part of Washington and Lee’s pro-
‘gram in applied ethics, ‘‘Society and
ithe Professions.’ During the three-
day institute, Washington and Lee
students and faculty will be joined by
‘practicing journalists in a series of
seminars on current topics in jour-
nalism ethics.

> Anative of Nashville, Seigenthaler
,began as a cub reporter on the
Tennessean in 1949. He has held
‘almost every news and editorial

position on the newspaper,
including beat reporter, general
‘assignment reporter, feature

magazine writer, copy editor, city
editor, editor and publisher. As a
reporter, Seigenthaler covered
crime, local government, the courts,
the state legislature, and national
politics.
* Seigenthaler attended Peabody
College. He was a Niewman Fellow
at Harvard University, a com-
‘munications fellow at Duke Universi-
ty, and was an associate professor of
public policy at Duke during the 1980
academic year. He is vice chairman
and a member of the executive com-
ittee of the Media and Society
minars of the Columbia University
Journalism School and is a member
pf the University of Tennessee Col-
lege of Communications board of
Visitors.
, Seigenthaler is a member of. the
School of Communication Disting-

Business club planning

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

’

t The development of a speaker pro-
gram and the formation of an invest-
*ment club are two possibilities open
sto students interested in joining the
finance-oriented student-run chapter
‘of the Financial Management Asso-
ciation (FMA), says Joseph Gold-
Sten, professor of business ad-
ministration and advisor for the
‘group.

, Speaking to approximately 15
students at the group’s organiza-
‘tional meeting last Thursday,
.Goldsten discussed the history of the
17-year old group, as well as some of
‘the advantages available through the
group to students interested in
finance.

' Formed in 1970, the Financial
»Management Association is a profes-
sional organization of students, pro-
‘fessors, and practitioners interested
,in finance. The group, said Goldsten,
offers a mixture of academic
‘research and pragmatic application
,that is unique among professional
organizations of its type.

Money

Securities

{

By STEVEN POCKRASS
y Assignments Editor

 

’

If you’ve got an interest in business
and a good all-around record, the
‘Securities Association of Virginia
,Inc. might have $1,000 for you.

The Richmond-based securities
‘association is a non-profit organiza-

r

uished Advisory Committee of the
American University. A _ First
Amendment Chair of Excellence has
been established in his name at Mid-
dle Tennessee State University. The
chair was created to seek ways to in-
crease understanding of the First
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

Seigenthaler is a member of the
Board of the American Society of
Newspapers Editors and serves as
chairman of the society’s bulletin
committee. He is a member of the
Kappa Tau Alpha honorary jour-
nalism society and of Sigma Delta

“One of the tradeoffs students
make in coming to a liberal arts
school like Washington and Lee is
that they don’t get as much exposure
to the field as they would at a more
specialized, business-oriented
undergraduate  school,’’ said
Goldsten. ‘‘This group offers
students the chance to expand their
financial base in an academic set-
ting, which could well prove advan-
tageous to them down the road.”’

Goldsten added that such a group
would help students develop a career
focus within a financial framework.
“Many students interested in the
field of finance are just not aware of
the many dimensions of the field,
having not explored their posbibili-
ties. While banking is an excellent
way to enter the field, for instance, it
is by no means the only option
available to students,’ Goldsten
said.

Several years ago, says Goldsten, a
commerce fraternity was formed
that met once a month, inviting
speakers to talk to students on an in-
formal basis. “A student-run FMA
chapter here could be run in a similar
fashion, serving as a forum for the
common interests and needs of the

John Seigenthaler

 

Chi, the Society of Professional Jour-
nalists. He serves on the board of
directors of the World Press Institute
and on the board of the Committee to
Protect Journalists, an organization
concerned with the imprisonment of
journalists in foreign countries.

Seigenthaler’s books include A
Search for Justice, which he co-
authored with the late John Hem-
phill, Frank Ritter, and Jim Squires,
and An Honorable Profession, which
he co-authored with Pierre Salinger,
Frank Mankiewicz, and Ed Guth-
man.
students,’ Goldsten said. He men-
tioned the recent interest in the area
of mergers and acquisitions as an ex-
ample of a topic not in the school’s
curriculum which, given sufficient
student interest, could be addressed
by the group.

Field trips are another possibility,
Goldsten said. ‘‘Interesting, local ex-
cursions could easily be arranged
Which would hopefully enhance the
professional insights of students in-
volved.’’

The formation of an investment
club would also be possible through
the group. According to Goldsten,
such clubs exist nationwide, and are
highly successful in themselves and
in nationwide investment competi-
tions.

But perhaps the greatest asset
such a program would produce would
be the contacts arising from the per-
sonal contact available between
students and speakers. ‘‘Such one-to-
one contact has in the past proved
beneficial to students applying for
jobs. The knowledge and guidance
such speakers can provide would cer-
tainly be advantageous to students

embarking upon a career in
finance,”’ Goldsten added.

association offers scholarship

tion comprising persons engaged in
the securities industry.

Applicants for the group’s first an-
nual scholarship must have com-
pleted at least one semester at an ac-
credited Virginia college and should
be taking a curriculum that em-
phasizes business. Candidates will be
judged on grade point average,
awards, extra-curricular activities

and academic honors.

Students interested in applying for
the scholarship or who want further
information should leave their names
with John H. DeCourcy in the W&L
Financial Aid Office as soon as possi-
ble. The list must be sent to the
association by April 1. The award is
scheduled to be made at the begin-
ning of June.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 26, 1987

 

Personnel director hired

 

From Staff Reports

 

Shari L. Anderson, former
associate executive director of the
College and University Personnel
Association, has been named direc-
tor of personnel services at
Washington and Lee University.
Anderson, the first person named to
the newly created position, will begin
work June 1.

“‘We are pleased that someone with
Shari’s knowledge and experience
will be joining our staff,’ said
Lawrence W. Broomall, treasurer of
Washington and Lee, in announcing
the appointment. ‘Her skills and
talents will be invaluable in the crea-
tion and operation of a Washington
and Lee personnel office.”

At Washington and Lee, Anderson
will be responsible for the develop-
ment and administration of non-
faculty personnel policies and pro-
cedures. She will also oversee ser-

vices provided to university
employees, including fringe benefit
administration and counseling,
recruitment and employment pro-
cesses for non-faculty positions, and
position and salary classification and
administration.

Anderson joined the College and
University Personnel Association in
1984 and most recently served as
associate executive director. From
1975 to 1984, Anderson held various
positions with the Medical College of
Wisconsin, including assistant direc-
tor of personnel staff assistant, and
public relations editorial assistant.

Prior to joining the Medical Col-
lege of Wisconsin, Anderson served
as public relations assistant for St.
Luke’s Hospital in Milwaukee.

A native of Valley City, N.D.,
Anderson attended the University of
Wisconsin at Milwaukee and Mount
Mary College. She also studied in the
College and University Personnel
Association/Central Michigan

University Masters Program in per-
sonnel management in higher educa-
tion.

Long active in professional and
civic affairs, Anderson is a member
of the American Society of Asso-
ciaiton Executives, the Washington
Personnel Association, the College
and University Personnel Associa-
tion, the American Society for Per-
sonnel Administration, the
Personnel-Industrial Relations
Association, the International
Association of Personnel Women,
and the Administrative Management
Society. She has served on the United
Way Health Allocations Board, the
Future Milwaukee Community
Leadership Program, the personne]
committee for the YWCA of Greater
Milwaukee and the board of directors
of the YWCA for Greater Milwaukee.

Anderson is the mother of two sons,
Dean, a junior at Bethel College in St.
Paul, Minn., and Peter, who will be a
junior at Lexington High School.

Four students avoid run-offs

 

By MARGARET PIMBLETT
Staff Reporter

 

Four students were clear winners
in Monday’s class elections and did
not participate in today’s run-off.

Sophomore Chris deMovellan and
junior Brandt Wood were both re-
elected to the Executive Committee
with a majority of the votes cast.

DeMovellan received 167 of the 301
votes cast by the class of 1989, while
Wood received 123 of the 143 votes of
the class of 1988.

Juniors Mike Henry and Doug
Elliot were re-elected a second time
to their positions of class president
and vice president, respectively.

Henry defeated Norm Sigler by
nearly six votes to one, while Elliot

received 121 votes. Although 212
ballots were cast by rising seniors,
there were 152 no-votes for vice presi-
dent.

Three vice presidents are elected
for the senior class. The four can-
didates in the run-off for the remain-
ing two spots are Richard Norris,
Tommy McBride, David Jordan and
Ted Willard.

The closest race was for vice presi-
dent of the class of 1989. David Burns
led with 55 votes, while Lucy Ander-
son and Hugh McCormick tied with
52. All three were in today’s run-off.

Sophomore Mike Caroll missed the
run-off by one vote, with 51 votes.

The run-off candidates for Ex-
ecutive Committee representative
were Tom O’Brien and Mike Suttle
for the remaining senior position,

Wright Ledbetter and John Mc-
Donough for the second junior slot,
and Chris Giblin, Jud Parker, Mary
Alice McMorrow and Thomas
Sheehan for the two sophomore
representative spots.

Scott Jules, this year’s freshman
E.C. representative, did not receive
enough votes to enter the run-off.

The presidential candidates in the
run-off were Richard Zuber and Billy
Tunner for the rising sophomore
class, and Jim Ambrosini and Mike
Forrester in the rising junior class.

Freshmen Chris Pennewill and
Mason Van Sciver entered the run-off
for rising sophomore vice president.

A total of 910 votes were cast Mon-
day — 316 freshmen, 382 sophomores,
and 212 juniors.

 

Change

O Continued from Page 1

 

the academic year,” said DeCourcy
of the financial aid law, which took
effect in January. :

DeCourcy said many problems
were created when the changes took
effect halfway through the academic
year.

“It was pretty difficult figuring out
how to deal with this thing in the mid-
dle of the year. It’s a profound
change of rules in mid-stream,”’ said
DeCourcy.

DeCourcy explained that the
government is not giving financial

aid directors any specific directions
or clarifications on the changes in
financial aid regulations.

“The government is really hanging
back on giving us any guidance on
(the changes in regulations),” said
DeCourcy. ‘‘They usually run six to
nine months behind in terms of
clarification, in my experience.”

DeCourcy said the changes in the
financial aid regulations have
noticeably affected law students, but
he doesn’t really expect the changes
to hit undergraduates until next
academic year.

Another impact of the new regula-
tions are changes in the actual Finan-
cial Aid Forms. Combined with last
year new verification program, this
results in a tremendous increase in
paperwork for financial aid offices
and recipients.

The new tax laws passed last year
include the potential for more
changes in the financial aid regula-
tions. Previously, financial aid direc-
tors governed the formula by which a
student is judged in need of aid.
Through the new tax laws, Congress
now decides the needs-analysis for
mula. What was formerly decided by
the financial aid community is now
subject to lobbying, said DeCourcy.

DeCourcy stresses that while some
students are no longer eligible for the
Guaranteed Student Loan, there are
other loans available, usually at a
higher interest rate than the GSL.

“A significant number of people
will be affected in their loan sources.
They need to get their applications in
early, no surprises. Don’t wait until
July,”’ DeCourcy advises students.

 

Pretty trio

Members of the Washington and Lee University flute
trio are (left to right) Kathleen Morrison, a freshman
from Seaford, Va., Stephanie Smith, a sophomore from
East Brunswick, N.J., and Tanya Pergola, a freshman

Minority recruitment

weekend is successful

 

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

This past weekend students may
have noticed a few minority high
school students attending their
classes. These students were here
because of the minority recruitment
weekend sponsored by W&L’s admis-
sions office.

According to Mimi Elrod, assistant
director of admissions, ‘‘We (the ad-
missions office) invite minority
students from the continental U.S.
who are admissible to spend the
weekend on campus.”’ She said the
students’ admissibility depends on
their credentials.

During these weekends, the stu-
dents attend three classes in their
areas of interest, talk with professors
and coaches in out-of-class situations
and meet with Elrod and Dean of
Minority Affairs Anece McCloud.

The admissions office will sponsor
another of these events during the

weekend of March 27. The Lip-Sync
Contest will be on the list of activities
for the prospective students.

Elrod added that the admissions of-
fice has been sponsoring these
weekends for about 10 years.

For next year, the office is con-
sidering hiring someone whose sole
responsibility will be to work with
minority recruitment.

Members of both Student Recruit-
ment and the Minority Recruitment
Committee were essential in making
sure the wekend was a success.
“Everyone in both organizations did
a wonderful job,”’ said Elrod.

When asked to evaluate the
weekend, Elrod responded, ‘‘I think
it’s gone very well. They (the pro-
spective students) seemed to be im-
pressed with the school and the
students.”

“We received a lot of positive feed-
back from these students,” added
Tom Brickel, co-chairman of MRC.
“It seems some will definitely re-
turn.”

 

 

    

By W. Patrick Hinley/W&L

from Easton, Conn. They will be performing with three
other W&L instrumental ensembles in a concert in Lee
Chapel Thursday, April 2, at 8 p.m. The concert is free
and open to the public.

Free rides

offered

From Staff Reports

 

Alpha Phi Omega will be offering
rides to and from the Roanoke
Regional Airport for spring vacation.

The rides will leave from the
University Center at 2 p.m. on Thurs-
day, April 9, and at both 9 a.m. and 2
p.m. on Friday, April 10. Return
rides will leave the airport at 3 p.m
on Sunday, April 19. The round-trip
fee will be $5.

Students wishing to take advantage
of this service must sign up with
Carol Ann Calkins, the University
Center receptionist, by Monday,
April 6. Those who plan to use the
return service should include their
flight number and arrival time with
the sign-up information.

Anyone who needs a ride and has a
conflict with the times listed should
give that information to Calkins.
APO cannot promise that it will be
able to provide rides for people with
conflicts but will try to accommodate
everyone.

 

 
By DAVID EMRICH
Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee lacrosse
team has accomplished something
that hasn’t been seen at W&L since
1982.

For the first time in four years,
W&L lacrosse will post a winning
record.

The Generals went three of three
last week, including an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference win over
Randolph-Macon, to put their overall
record at 7-1 (2-0 in the conference).

Yesterday at Randolph-Macon the
Generals beat the Yellow Jackets
15-11, yet the game was not as close
as it might seem.

W&L pulled senior goalie John
Church after building a 11-5 lead.

“We felt we were in command of
the game,” said head coach Dennis
Daly.

Sophomore Neill Redfern and
junior Sandy Harrison both had hat
tricks for the Generals.

“We didn’t play a great defensive
game,” said Daly. ‘ ‘We would slack
off and then come back.

‘We played well enough to win but
we'll have to improve to face the next
three teams on our schedule [Dart-
mouth, Middlebury, and Hampden-
Sydney.].

 

SPORTS

Finally, a winning
season for lacrosse

“But I’m happy,” continued Daly,
“we're 7-1 and we have a winning
season — there’s a lot to be optimistic
about.”’

On Monday the lacrosse squad
made sure that its lengthy bus ride to
VMI wasn’t all for naught, drum-
ming out the Keydets by a score of
15-9.

The game was close most of the
way, with the teams exchanging
goals for the entire contest.

“We were executing, but our

shooting wasn’t sharp,’”’ said head
coach Dennis Daly.

Luckily for the Generals, soph-
omore John Ware was sharp.

Ware almost singly handedly kept
the Generals in the contest. He either
scored or assisted on the Generals
first 11 goals. He went on to set a
school record for points with 12 (5
goals, 7 assists) for the afternoon.

Yet, despite Ware’s great in-
dividual effort, the Generals could
not seem to pull away from the
Keydets, who the Generals beat 20-2
last year.

“They played a notch up,”’ said Da-
ly. “They were a team ready to upset
us ”

Finally, late in the fourth quarter,
the Generals turned on the prover-
bial afterburners and smoked the
Keydets for 6 goals, putting the game

C See LAX, Page 5

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Richard Moore cruises over the finish line in Tuesday’s track meet.

Baseball drops doubleheader during

 

By STUART SHELDON
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
team is in the middle of what head
coach Jeff Stickley called ‘“‘the
toughest schedule in the ODAC (Old
Dominion Athletic Conference).”’

With yesterday’s home stand
against Hampden-Sydney called off
due to rain, the Generals’ overall
record stands at 2-6, with a 1-3 ODAC

In action last week, the Generals
played on the road in a doubleheader
against Randolph-Macon. The
Generals dropped both ends of the
doubleheader, 12-1 and 8-6, but
Stickley was pleased with the play of
his team.

He said that Randolph-Macon
‘“‘was one of the top two teams in the
conference” and that W&L played
well in the second game. We did not
let ourselves drop after the first
game.” In fact, the Generals were
leading the Yellow Jackets 6-4 up to
the fifth inning.

Women’s tennis starts
off season at 3-0

By GARY McCULLOUGH
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team started off the 1987
season with three straight wins.
Leading the varsity team in these
matches were Sophomore Caroline
Hopper, Freshmen Theresa South-
ard, and Sophomores Dana Anstine,
Valerie Pierson, Catherine Nelligan,
Martha Christian, Laura Eggers,
and Benny Savage.

After edging past Hollins College
and Lynchburg College by equivalent
scores of 5-4, the Lady Generals
defeated Southern Seminary College
by a convincing 8-1 margin. Although
the team’s first two matches were

very close, their full capabilities
were not displayed in two of their
matches. “The sccond one we won
without three of the top five players,”
said Southard, and against Sem. we
were without two of the top five.”

The Women’s tennis team will be
facing Randolph-Macon Women’s
College at home on Friday. Head
coach Bill Washburn is fairly confi-
dent that it will be a good match-up.
He said that, from last year’s
statistics, Randolph-Macon would be
slightly favored, but he also said that
the Lady Generals had “greater
strength overall than last year.”

The key to the women’s success so
far has been the depth of their ladder,
and, hopefully, this will help them
surpass Randolph-Macon tomorrow
afternoon.

However, a bloop hit and a balk by
W&L allowed the Yellow Jackets to
pull ahead for the 8-6 win.

On March 20th Washington and Lee
hosted Eastern Mennonite in another
ODAC game. This time the Generals’
had the hot bats needed to win, and
they pounded E. Mennonite 21-8.

“We hit well and kept scoring
throughout the game,” Stickley said.
“This is a good sign.”’

The scoring was led by sophomore
shortstop Harry Halpert, who was 3
for 5 with a three-run home run, and

The Ring-tum Phi, March 26, 1987

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum P

 

Track is victorious — again

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

 

Less than two weeks into its out-
door season, the Washington and Lee

track team already owns a 6-0 dual
meet record, including victories over
Eastern Mennonite and Newport
News Apprentice College Tuesday
afternoon. The Generals, winners of
three meets thus far in 1987, have not
lost a regular season meet since 1983;
W&L has a 27-0 record, dating back to
the first meet of the 1984 season. And,
judging from W&L’s performance
Tuesday, head Coach Norris
Aldridge can be fairly certain that
his team’s winning streak will not
end anytime soon.

Tuesday’s meet at Wilson Field
saw the Generals coast to another
victory, taking first place in 14 of the
day’s 17 events and scoring more
than twice as many points as the
second-place team from Newport
News.

For the second time in as many

meets, junior Andrew White won
both the 110 and 400 meter hurdles,
finishing with times of 16.6 and 59.8
seconds in those events. His
classmate John White also won two
events, the triple jump and the 400
meter run, and took second place in
the long jump and high jump.

The distance events saw junior
Richard Moore take first place in the
1500 meters with a time of 4:15.5.
Senior Ash Andrews was right behind
him at 4:20.7. In the 5000, the
Generals swept the top three places,
with Andrews winning the event with
a time of 16:42.2. Junior Scott Rip-
peon was second at 16:52.8, and
senior Steve Pockrass finished a
tenth of a second later to take third
place. And sophomore Jamie Urso
won the 800 meters with a time of
2:03.4. i

The Generals took two of ‘the top
three places in the 100 meter dash.
Freshman Wes Boyd edged out
senior Kevin Weaver for second
place in that event; both were clock-
ed at 11.8 seconds. Boyd also took

most difficult portion of

sophomore third baseman Tom
Skeen, who went a perfect three-for
three and knocked in three runs.
Three other Generals had at least
three hits in the game.

As the Generals move into the sec-
ond half of their ODAC schedule, they
find themselves plagued by injuries.
This is very apparent in the pitching
department, which Stickley cited at
the beginning of the season as ‘‘one of
our strong points.”

Senior pitcher Bill Schoettelkotte,
who broke his foot in a pick-off at-
tempt earlier this month against

 

Sophomore Bitsy Hopper nails a forehand.

 

By Mathew Horridge/
The Ring-tum Phi

Netmen ready for crucial weekend matches

By MIKE SHADY
_Assistant Sports Editor

Yesterday was just a warmup for
the Washington and Lee men’s tennis
team. Friday and Sunday are when
the matches really count.

The Generals destroyed Lynch-
burg yesterday in the minimum 18
sets required for the 9-0 victory. The
win follows an impressive 7-2 defeat
of Division I William and Mary on
Saturday and bumps W&L’s match
record up to 7-2. But it’s the upcom-
ing weekend that is of most concern

nerals.

The team takes on two preseason

nationally-ranked Division III
schools. On Friday at 3 p.m., W&L
plays No. 5 Emory and, on Sunday at
noon, the Generals go up against the
Little Quakers of No. 3 Swarthmore.

“We played very well in beating
William and Mary,” said head coach
Gary Franke, ‘and we will have to
play equally as well, if not better, in
these two crucial matches.”

Both Swarthmore and Emory par-
ticipated in the Division III national
championships last year in Clare-
mont, Ca. and Franke feels that these
matches will be instrumental in ob-
taining an invitation to this year’s
championship in Salisbury, Md.

“These are key matches, especial-
ly for ranking purposes,’ he said.

‘Both of them have just completed
successful Western swings against
numerous Division III schools in
California.”’

Against W&M, the Generals won
all three doubles and four singles
matches to pull away from the Tribe.
In the fall, W&L led 4-2 going into the
doubles matches, only to drop all
three of then and lose 5-4.

“{ Junior] Chris Wiman, at number
five and [freshman] John Morris at

number six, and all three of our
doubles teams really came through,”’
said Franke.

VOLLEYS ...Sophomore and No. 1

player Robert Haley continues to
struggle. Haley’s individual record
stands at 2-7 with his only two wins

‘coming in the teams’ shutout vic-

tories... The No. 1 doubles team of
junior David McLeod and sophomore
Bobby Matthews, however, continues
to roll along. Their record presently
stands at 8-1... Franke said he was
“just pleased to get the matches
{against} Lynchburg in.’ The
Generals were forced to play indoors
because of the rain... Not much is
known about this year’s version of
either Swarthmore or Emory besides
the rankings... Said Franke, ‘you
hear a little bit about them, but that’s
about it...”

-Bridgewater, is out for the rest of the

season, and another starter, sopho-
more Richard Grace, is out until at
least the end of Spring break with
pulled muscles in his side sustained
against Randolph Macon. ‘He will
miss at least four games,’’ said

A National

By STUART SHELDON
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men’s
swim team sent five swimmers to the
Division III National Championships,
held in Canton, Ohio for the second
straight year, last weekend. The
Generals finished as one of the Top 20
teams of the meet.

The swimmers, who had to swim as
fast or faster than established cut
times in order to qualify for the meet,
included Seniors Jay Reville and
Marty Radvany, sophomores Jeff
Bercaw and David Reavy and fresh-
man David Olson.

Olson led the way in scoring,
finishing seventh in the 200 yard
backstroke (1:56.0) and twelfth in the
100-yard backstroke with a time of
54.6.

Jeff Bercaw finished eighth in the
50-yard freestyle event with a time of

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

Think college basketball has pari-
ty? Check out the golf action in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

In the first three tournaments
featuring only ODAC teams, three
different schools captured first-place
honors including Washington and
Lee’s victory on Tuesday at the Lex-
ington Country Club. Coupled with a
near win at the Ferrum Invitational
this past weekend, the Generals are
playing some solid golf.

The flip-flopping in ODAC play
began in a match on March 18 when
Bridgewater came out on top, while
the Generals managed to finish 10
strokes behind in thirid. W&L im-
proved to second place on Friday in
the Ferrum Invitational with a team
total of 327, but it was Lynchburg
stealing the win with a 323, The
Generals finally broke into the win-
ners circle on Tuesday with a 321,

second in the 200 meter run, finishing
with a time of 24.2 seconds.

Washington and Lee’s runners also,
won both relays, taking first in the
400 with a time of 44.7 seconds and in’
the mile at 3:40.4.

In the field events, the Generals
were just as successful. Sophomore ’
James Ambrosini won two events
and took second place in a third. He
won the javelin with a throw of
151’2”’, and threw the discus 132’3’’ to
take first place in that event. Am-
brosini placed second in the shot put,
right behind senior Thomas Murray,
the W&L and ODAC indoor record-
holder, who won the event with a
throw of 47’5”’.

The Generals swept all four places
in the pole vault. Senior John Carder
took first place by clearing 13 feet, :
and senior Matthew Steilberg and
juniors Robert Williamson and
Joseph Fisher took second through
fourth at 12’6’”. Sophomore Fray Mc-
Cormick won the high jump at six
feet, and John White was second at
510”.

schedule

Stickley.

The Generals will host Lynchburg
College today at 3 p.m. and travel to
Emory and Henry Saturday for a
doubleheader that Stickley feels ‘“‘we —
can win if we play as well as we can.”’
All three games are ODAC contests.

Report

21.1 seconds. He also swam the 100- ‘
yard freestyle (48.8) as well as the ,
100-yard butterfly, where he placed
13th with a time of 57.7, his fastest yet
at W&L.

Another sophomore, David Reavy,
swam the 50-yard freestyle in 22.2
seconds and also the 100-yard free ,
(48.6). His best time, however, came
in the 200-yard free, where he finish-
ed in 1:45.5.

Senior Jay Reville placed 16th in
the 400-yard individual medley
(4:12.0) and went 1:58 in the 200-yard
ILM.

The 400-yard medley relay team of
Olson (back), Radvany (breast),
Bercaw (fly) and Reavy (free) plac-
ed 14th with a time of 3:32.6. This
time included Radvany’s third 100
yard breast time of under one minute
(59.7) and was the attainment of a
season-long goal.

en Generals finished 19th over-

Golf faces ODAC parity

beating out Lynchburg’s 329 and
Bridgewater’s 335.

“This is a good win,” said head
coach Buck Leslie. ‘“‘The guys work-
ed real hard.”

Junior co-captain Chip Gist was the
medalist with a 77, and he received
help from sophomore Pete Coleman
(80) and senior co-captain Mark
Zavatsky (81). Gist was the only per-
son in the match to break 80 on the
round.

“Chip’s playing real tough,” said
Leslie. “‘We’re getting some help
from the lower part of the batting
order. We’re starting to pick each
other up.”

Gist was also the medalist (with a
78 at Ferrum) on the challenging
Waterford Golf Course. According to
Leslie, W&L was just one good round
away from winning the whole thing.

“That was a tough PGA champion-
ship course and only two of the 35
players broke 80,’ he said. “If we
had another low score we would have
won it.”
%

Sea ae oR et

 

LAX

 

QO Continued from Page 4

beyond VMI’s reach.

“We were playing well,” said Daly.
“It was only a matter of time until we
punched some through.”

The Generals were certainly
“punching some through’’ last Satur-

day at Gettysburg.

W&L clobbered the Gettysburg -

squad by a score of 20-10.

“In the Notre Dame game [which
directly preceded the Gettysburg
contest] we didn’t execute well, we
just stood around,” said Daly.

‘“‘We expected them [the players]
to treat that game differently than
they did.”’

“They took Gettysburg very
seriously,’’ said Daly. ‘And we ex-
ecuted well as a team.”

In the first quarter of the game, the
Generals were whistled for six per-
sonal fouls, resulting in three occa-
sions when W&L was two men down.

The Bullets took advantage of their
good fortune by cashing in on all
three chances. But on each occasion,

 

By JOHN PACKETT
Staff Reporter

 

When junior varsity lacrosse was
dropped two years ago because of a
lack of interest, there was no team
for undergraduates or law students
who couldn’t play varsity lacrosse.

Thanks to the efforts of students
Jeff Mandak and Mark Whiteford,
there is now a school club team,
General Headquarters Tavern
Lacrosse.

Two years ago they went to Dean
Lewis G. John to ask for advice on
getting a club started. He gave them
the names of Mike Stone, who works
at VMI, and Stuart Thomas, who also
wanted to form a club team.

Those four started last year’s East
Lexington Lacrosse Club team.

“Last year’s team was _ less
organized and there was less interest
than we are having this year,” said
Mandak and Whiteford.

“This year we are more of a real
team as compared to last year, and
this has lead to an increase in par-

 

the Generals scored within seconds
to negate any advantage Gettysburg
might have gained.

“We totally dominated them in
everything,” said Daly. ‘We took the
game away.”

Total domination might be too mild
an appraisal. The Generals held the
Bullets without a goai for nearly thir-
ty minutes in the middle of the game.
And W&L was leading 19-4 when,
with 11 minutes remaining in the
game, the Generals substituted for
their starters.

Looking ahead to this weekend, the
Generals will face Dartmouth on
Wilson Field.

“They are one year older,” said
Daly, ‘‘and they have a large number
of people returning.

“They have a new coach and they
won their first game.” ‘‘So, they are
a confident team.”

“They will provide our most severe
test since UVa,” he said.

LAX FACT ...The Generals have
beaten five previously undefeated
teams this year. Lynchburg, Ohio
Wesleyan, Notre Dame, V.M.I., and
Randolph-Macon were all undefeated
before they met W&L.

ticipation,” said Whiteford.

“The year before we barely had
enough people to play in two of our
games and we only had one prac-
tice,” said Mandak.

“This year we practice at least
twice a week and have 38 members
on our team,”’ said Whiteford.

The team is open to any under-
graduate or law students who attend
Washington and Lee.

Last year the club wasn’t officially
recognized by the school but now the
club is, and according to Mandak, the
recognition makes it easier to have a
team.

This makes the team eligible to
receive money and support from the
Executive Committee and the GHQ.

Mandak and Whiteford said they
have received a lot of help and sup-
port from many different people, in-
cluding students and faculty and
even people in Lexington.

They went to Gerald Darrell,
Director of University Food Service
and the person responsible for the
GHQ, and asked if the GHQ could
sponsor the team. He agreed and
they named him coach of the team.

 

 

Although Darrell doesn’t actually
coach the team, he does things such
as having schedule cards printed.

The money for uniforms comes
from the Executive Committee and
the GHQ, according to Mandak.

According to Mandak and White-
ford, they receive a great amount of
help from lacrosse team coach Den-
nis Daly and Athletic Director
William McHenry.

Daly helps them with the schedul-
ing of teams and letting them use the
practice field.

“Anything he can help us with he
will. He hasn’t turned us down yet,”
said Whiteford and Mandak about
Daly’s contribution to the team.

McHenry is the club’s faculty ad-
visor and is very suggestive and sup-
portive of the team.

“He is at all the games and very
supportive of our efforts,”’ said Man-
dak.

The team currently practices on
the Law School field and plays its
home games on the varsity practice
field. In case they need another field,
the city has offered one on which they

 

> Ring-tum F

By Pe: yes/T

Sophomore John Wave reaches high for the ball.

GH@Q lacrosse provides another alternative

can play.

Daly gives them names of possible
teams to play and reccommends the
team to any teams asking for com-
petition.

The schedule consists of local col-
leges or their junior varsity teams
and club teams.

‘Most away games are within an
hour and we provide our own trans-
portation,” said Mandak.

The basic philosophy behind the
team is to have fun and everybody is
there because of their love of
lacrosse, according to Whiteford and
Mandak.

The team is also very serious about
what they do and this is a big help for
Mandak and Whiteford, who serve as
the coaches for the team.

‘Mark decides who plays defense
and I decide the lines for the midfield
and attack,”’ said Mandak. ““Every-
one gets to play.”

“‘Coaches have told us it is a well
run student team,”’ said Whiteford.

The team has played four games
already and is 3-1. They resume their
play after spring break and have five
games remaining on their schedule.

 

 

 

 

   

 

David Olson _

 

 

SPE LR CTRL A FARR NO eT BLL TINIE
By JOHN PACKETT
Staff Reporter

 

Freshman David Olson is
Washington & Lee’s Athlete of the
Week for his efforts at the Divi-
sion III National Swimming
Championships in Canton, Ohio.

Olson was named an all-
American, in the 200-yard back-
stroke. To be an all-American, a
swimmer must place i nthe top
eight of an event.

Olson placed seventh with a
time of 1:56.43.

During the time trials Olson set
the school record in the 200-yard
with a time of 1:56.23.

“T was happy with my times in
the 200-yard,” said Olson. “I
thought they were really good.”’

“Being in the nationals was a
whole lot of pressure,”’ said Olson.
“It was a lot more than I had ex-
perienced before.”

Olson was also named an hon-

orable mention all-American in
two other events.

He placed fourteenth in the 100-
yard backstroke with a time of
54.3.

“I was hoping to do better in the
100-yard, but I think I can im-
prove.”

He was also part of the 400-yard
medley relay team from Washing-
ton & Lee, which finished thir-
teenth with a time of 3:32.63.

Olson said that the relay team
did a good job. The members of
the relay team were senior Marty
Radvany and sophomores David
Reavy and Jeff Bercaw.

Olson has been swimming since
he was 10 years old and likes the
competition.

“In high school, swimming was
more of an individual sport, but in
college it is more of a team
sport,” said Olson.

Olson was swim and soccer cap-
tain of the Robinson High School
teams.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 26, 1987, Page 5

 

Shades on Sports [
By Mike Shady
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lloyd Daniels

Whose fault is it?

Let me tell you the story of a great basketball player. Let me tell you
the story of a young man (boy?) who is 20 years old and yet can’t even
read this column. Let me tell you the story of greed, money and ex-
ploitation. Let me tell you the story of Lloyd Daniels.

Daniels has been heralded as the “second coming of Magic
Johnson” and the best player to come out of New York since a scrawny
big fella named Lew Alcindor. According to a story in the Washington
Post, Daniels is currently enrolled at the University (ugh) of Nevada-
Las Vegas and could possibly play for the Runnin’ Rebels next season.
Daniels has never graduated from the 11th grade.

It’s the same old story of an athlete being given every break just
because he can put a little rubber ball in a metal hoop better than
anyone else. But there is one hitch in this scenario that makes it dif-
ferent. Daniels could possibly be the best basketball player ever to
play the game and that fact alone is what separates him from most or-
dinary superstars.

People refuse, rightly or wrongly, to give up on this young man. He
has been enrolled in four different high schools (twice at Virginia’s
Oak Hill Academy) during his life, most of the time with all his tuition
and extra expenses paid for by someone else. Scouts say he is so good
that he could have jumped to the pros and forgone college altogether.
Because of his extraordinary talents, Daniels has been given
numerous chances to succeed and yet continues to fail in the
classroom. He says he is not stupid but his reading ability is at about
the third-grade level.

What bothers me about the whole situation is not the fact that so
many people are pampering this guy, but Daniels’ attitude toward
everything provided him. Daniels knows he is great and he knows he is
going to make megabucks in the NBA. But is he willing to work for it?
Believe it or not, playing at the professional level is a job that requires
discipline, motivation and just plain hard work. Talent is not enough to
get you by (ask Chris Washburn if you think I’m wrong). More than
once Daniels has exasperated coaches with his laziness and poor work
ethics.

Does this guy have the desire it takes to be great? Right now, the
answer is no. Obviously he doesn’t have it in the classroom. What
Daniels needs to do is a little ‘soul searching” and figure out exactly
what he wants to do with his life. He is so far behind academically that
help is necessary, but only to a certain point. Daniels has to start earn-
ing his way through the system.

In the Post’s story, one teacher tried to explain Daniels’ passing
grades by asking if a kid goes to class and tries, should he fail the
course? Are you kidding me? If he can’t handle the material that you
are teaching him now, what good is it to pass him along to the next,
more difficult grade of school? This doesn’t teach Daniels anything ex-
cept that all he has to dois put forth some effort in order to pass.

I hope things work out for Daniels. I really do. Reading the com-
ments from the people associated with him, I feel that he is not a mean
person. Daniels is just a basketball player who, when he was very
young, found out that his talents on the court more than made up for
his disabilities in the classroom. Mr. Daniels, I wish you the best of
luck.

Notes...What ever happened to team play? It seems that lately all
anybody cares about is personal statistics and not about whether the
team won or lost. If all you worry about is the number of points or
saves you got then why don’t you go play one of those individual sports
— like squash...

A surprise Final Four — Take Providence and UNLV in the
semifinals, and the Runnin’ Rebels in the championship final... Auto
racing is a very exciting sport. Then again, watching a matchbox car
on a spinning turntable is also entertaining...

 

 

 

 

wae
KITE!

from

 

 

HUNTERGHUNTRESS,
18 E. Nelson St., Lexington
463-1800

 

'( 422%. ST. GEORGE'S UNIVERSITY
| [3 SCHOOL OF MEDICINE

    

<4 GRENADA
“_ §T. VINCENT

TESS

Affiliated Hospitals in
New York State

New Jersey

United Kingdom

 

A Few Spare Hours? Receive/forward mail from home.
Uncle Sam works hard - you pocket hundreds honestly!

Details,

send self-addressed,

stamped envelope.

BEDUYA, Box 17145, Tucson, AZ 85731.

 

 
 
   
   

George’s
Hairstylist
Walk-in or Phone

Mon.-Fri., 8:30-5:00

 
 

  

  

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occastions

11 W. Nelson St.

R. Sheridan PHONE 703-463-2022 Lexington, Va. 24450

ROUTE 7, Box 66 703-463-1782
COLLEGE SQUARE SHOPPING CENTER

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

MERLE NORMAN STUDIO

Wolff System Tanning Bed

Sculpted Nails STUDENT RATES
Ist Session — Free
5 Sessions — $29-60 — $25.00

10 Sessions — $49-00 — $35.00

EAST LEX

25% Off On
Selected Jeweiry

 

 

  
   

¢ Approved February 4, 1987 by the New York State Education Department for the
purpose of conducting a clinical clerkship program in New York teaching hospitals.
¢ St. George's received a similar approval in 1985 from the New Jersey Board of
Medical Examiners; this establishes St. George's as the only foreign medical school
with instruction in English that has state-approved campuses in both New York
and New Jersey.
¢ Over 700 students have transferred to U.S. medical schools. St. George's has
graduated over 1,000 physicians:
They are licensed in 39 states;
They hold faculty positions in 20 U.S. medical schools — 25% have been Chiet
Residents in 119 U.S. hospitals (according to a 1986 survey).
© St. George’s is entering its second decade of medical education. In the first decade,
we were cited by The Journal of the American Medical Association (January 1985)
as ranking number one of all major foreign medical schools in the initial pass rate
on the ECFMG exam.
¢ St. George’s is one of the few foreign medical schools whose students qualify for
Guaranteed Student Loans, Our students also qualify for the PLUS/ ALAS loans
and, under certain conditions, VA loans. St. George's grants a limited number of
loans and scholarships to entering students.
St. George's University School of Medicine /6 23
c/o The Foreign Medical School Services Corporation
One East Main Street ¢ Bay Shore, New York 11706
(516) 665-8500

For information
please contact
the Office of
Admissions

 

 

A

For Quality Accommodation
& Dining Call

Quality Innit

ROUTE 1, BOX 438, RAPHINE, VIRGINIA 24472

 

703-377-2604

Midway between
Lexington & Staunton.
Take exit 54 off I-81

 

 
 
 

Imported Steinlager ............. $2.99 6 pk.
White Mountain Cooler ......... 1.49 4pk.
Ue Wh isiisicise chi dieses 48° each

 

U.S. 11 North

Summer Maids
Needed!

June 9 — August 5

Housing Provided, Plus Salary

A inquire at the office of

Summer Program

Washington Hall 34
463-8723

 
 

 

 

®
£
-BA

 

 

Drive-In conjur

rs

 

By MICHAEL TUGGLE
Movie Critic

What does the last week of March
mean to you? To most of us,it means
that spring is finally here and that,
with only one week of classes left
before exams, we are probably
behind in our work.

To Sebert Hull, however, the last
week of March means it’s time to
polish the candy case, hook up the
fountain, cut the grass and oil the
projector. Because this Friday night,
the lights come up and the cars roll in
for the 37th opening of Hull’s Drive-In
Theatre.

For over 30 years, Hull has been
providing entertainment from the
last weekend in March until the last
weekend of October and looks for-

ward to starting another year Friday
night.

“Tt’s fun!” Hull gipped, an excited
anticipation in his voice. “I just want
people to come out and have a good
time.”’

While Hull expressed that last year
there were occasional problems get-
ting films from the overbooked rental
companies, he doesn’t foresee any
difficulties this year at all.

“Last year the company cancelled
Top Gun twice before I finally got it.
This year they had problems with
Crecedile Dundee, but more prints
have been made.”’

Daylight savings time and the
development of the VCR have been
major setbacks for the drive-in
theater, according to Hull. In reality,
the drive-in theater has nearly
vanished as a component of the film
industry in the United States. In the
bigger cities such as Roanoke, the ex-
tinction has arisen due to property
values. When the theater could no

longer make more than its value
price, development companies took
them over. What was once an in-
tegral part of our parents’ youth has
more or less become a nostalgic
memory.

Sebert Hull is dedicated to keeping
the Drive-In on Route 11 open. With
nearly excessive room, Hull anxrous-
ly awaits the customers that will fill
the 300 vehicular seats up to an hour
before viewing time. This week’s
double feature, Tough Guys, starring

CK PAGE

es nostalgia

Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster,
and The Color Of Money, staring
Oscar nominees Paul Newman and
Mary Elizabeth Mastrontonio, will
begin at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, Satur-
day and Sunday nights.

Starting April 5th, the films will
begin at 9:00 p.m. due to Daylight
Savings Time, but until then, all
showings will begin at 8:00 p.m. Ad-
mission is $2.00 a person and the
snack bar is fully stocked with soft
drinks, popcorn, candy and sand-

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

wiches.

For future reference, the following
films are being shown later this
spring: April 3-5 — The Golden Child
and Firewalker; April 10-12 — Star
Trek IV and Space Camp; April 17-19
— Crocodile Dundee and Trading
Places; and April 24-26 — Over the Top
and Heartbreak Ridge. At a dollar a
movie, how can you afford not to go?
Come out to Hull’s Drive-In (about 2
miles past the Holiday Inn on Rt. 110
for a piece of American nostalgia.

Anticipation hovers over Oscars

By MICHAEL TUGGLE
Movie Critic

 

Federico Fellini commented after
winning his fourth Academy Award,
“In the mythology of the cinema,
Oscar si the supreme prize.”

In reality, no other prize in the
entertainment industry is as coveted
as the golden twelve inch statuette
we call Oscar. For the last month, ac-
tors and actresses, producers and
directors, cinematographers and
sound technicians have been waiting
in anticipation to see who will take
home the coveted prize this year.
Now, the waiting is over and the part
is set to begin Monday night, as the
59th Annual Academy Awards are
presented in Beverly Hills.

This has been an excellent year for
film. We have experienced history,
comedy, tragedy, a trip to Viet Nam,
a man-eating plant, a trip to the past,
one to the future, and the best, most
expensive navy recruitment film in
history. All of these will join together
Monday night in anticipation to see
just who is the best of 1986.

Here is a list of the nominees, along
with my picks for this year’s Oscars:
Best Picture: Children of a Lesser
God, Hannah and Her Sisters, The Mis-
sion, Platoon, A Room With A View.
*TUG’S TAG - The Mission.

* Best Actress: Jane Fonda,
Marlee Matlin, Sissy Spacek,
Kathleen Turner, and Sigourney
Weaver.

* TUG’S TAG - Marlee Matlin, for
Children of a Lesser God.

Best Actor: Dexter Gordon, Bob
Hoskins, William Hurt, Paul
Newman, and James Woods.

* TUG’S TAG - Paul Newman, for

The Color of Money *

Best Supporting Actress: Tess
Harper, Piper Laurie, Mary
Elizabeth Mastrontonio, Maggie
Smith and Diane Wiest.

* TUG’S TAG - Mary Elizabeth
Mastrontonio for The Color Of Money.
*

Best Supportng Actor: Tom
Berenger, Michael Caine, William
Defoe, Denholm Elliot and Deenis

Hopper.
* TUG’S TAG - William Defoe, for

Chorus warms up

From Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee University’s
three choral groups, the Glee Club,
Chorus, and Southern Comfort, will
present a concert in Lee Chapel on
Tuesday, March 31, at 8 p.m. The
concert is free to the public.

The groups will perform the full
repertoire from their upcoming tour
including sacred and secular pieces
by the Glee Club and the Chorus and

3/26 ,3|27
DATE

eo an

 

lighter entertainment by Southern
Comfort.

The groups will leave Friday, April
10, the first day of spring vacation for
Washington and Lee undergradu-
ates, for a 10-day tour that will begin
in Philadelphia and end in Montreal.

The group of 55 members will be
accompanied by Gordon P. Spice,
associate professor of music, and
conductor of the groups.

Bookstore
PLACE

©1988 ANCarved Class Rings

Platoon. *

Best Director: David Lynch,
Woody Allen, Roland Joffe’, James
Ivory and Oliver Stone.

* TUG’S TAG - Roland Joffe’, for
The Mission.*

This year, the Oscar race will be

tighter than ever. Each film and each
actor or actress nominated has a
good chance to win. There will be sur-
prises, and disappointments. But by
Monday night, winners will be chosen
and we will know who is the best for
1986.

Senior presents thesis

From Staff Reports

 

Steven D. Sandler, a Washington
and Lee University senior from
Miami Beach, Fla., will present
“Strange Snow,” a dramatic comedy
by Steve Metcalf. The play is
Sandler’s senior thesis project. The
play will run for three nights, March
26 through 28, at 8 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Theatre.

“Strange Snow’’ focuses on the ex-
periences of two Vietnam War veter-
ans. One continues to feel guilt over
the death of a friend duirng the war.

Starring in the play are Eric
Hager, Frank King and Delia Ford.

Reservations for the play may be
made by calling the theatre box of-
fice (463-8637) from 9:30 to 1:30, Mon-
day through Friday.

The Washington and Lee Universi-
ty Theature will present an evening
of one-act plays April 1 through 3 in
the Boiler Room Theatre, which is
located in Old Main Street Mall in
downtown Lexington.

The two student-directed plays to
be featured are ‘‘The Tiger” by Mur-
ray Schisgal and “‘The Lesson’’ by

“The Tiger,’’ which will be
directed by Craig M. Smith, a junior
from Lexington, Va., is a comedy
relating the story of a middle-aged
postman who kidnaps a suburban
housewife to prove to society that he
is better than his job will allow him to
be.

Starring in ‘“‘The Tiger’ are Greg
Lunsford, a senior from Brownsburg,
Va., and Susan Crouse, a sophomore
from Miami, Fla.

“The Lesson’ will be directed by
Brandon Davis, a senior from Myrtle
Beach, S.C. and focuses on the absur-
dity of communication and domi-
nance, particularly in  student-
teacher relationships.

Starring in ‘The Lesson’”’ will be
Sandra Boozer, a sophomore from
Trevilians, Va., John Boller, a
sophomore from Oak Ridge, N.J.,
and Burton Wright, a freshman from
Kingston, Tenn.

The one-act plays will begin at 8
p.m. and seating will be general ad-
mission at $2. W&L faculty, staff, and
students will be admitted free.
Reservations can be made by calling
the box office (463-8637) between 9:30
a.m. and 1:30 p.m., Monday through
Friday.

ALTERATIONS!

Get Ready For Shorts Weather

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

Available
at

J&B Office Supply

23 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 26, 1987

 

CALENDAR

Thursday, March 26
$ a.m. - Noon — SYMPOSIUM: “‘Virginia’s Death Penalty Represen
tation Project.’’ Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall
3 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. Lynchburg. Smith Field.
3 - 4:30 p.m, — Ice cream sundae reception for student art exhibit. du

Pont Hall.

5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “‘Alzheimer’s Disease,’”’ Matthew
B. Upton '88; ‘Life Among the Amish,” John S. Kirchner ’88. Room
401, Howe Hall. Tea at 4:30 in room 402. Public invited.

7:30 p.m. — CONTACT LECTURE: Abbie Hoffman. Lee Chapel.

Public invited.

8 p.m. — SENIOR THESIS PLAY: “Strange Snow,” directed by
Steven D. Sandler, ’87. University Theatre. For reservations, call

theatre office, 463-8637.

Friday, March 27

Journalism Ethics Institute

3 p.m. — COGNITIVE STUDIES LECTURE: “Computational Func-
tional Psychology: Problems and Prospects,” Dr. Kim Sterelny,
Australian National University.

Library. Public invited.

3 p.m, — MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Emory University. Varisty

Courts

3:15 p.m. — WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon

Woman's College. Varsity Courts.

8 p.m. — SENIOR THESIS PLAY: “Strange Snow,” directed by
Steven Sandler ’87. University Theatre.

8 p.m. — MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS BENEFIT: W&L Lip Sync and Air
Band Competition. General Headquarters, University Center. Public

invited.

Saturday, March 28

Journalism Ethics Institute.

2 p.m, — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Darthmouth. Wilson Field.

2 p.m. — OPERA BROADCAST: Turandot. WLUR-FM (91.5).

8 p.m. — SENIOR THESIS PLAY: “Strange Snow,” directed by
Steven Sandler ’87. University Theatre.

Sunday, March 29
Journalism Ethics Institute
Noon — MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Swathmore. Varsity Courts.

 

Northen Auditorium, University

 

 

Students exhibit art

From Staff Reports

 

Washington and Lee University art
students will exhibit their works in
duPont Gallery from March 23
through April 3.

The student art exhibit will include
charcoal, ink, graphite and pastel
drawings as well as oil and acrylic
paintings. Advanced sculpture
students will exhibit soapstone pieces
and a series of large wooden cutouts

in a figurative vein. Additional
sculpture using a series of mixed
media will be exhibited.

The exhibit features works by
studio art students of Professors I-
Hsiung Ju and Larry M. Stene of the
W&L art department.

Admission to duPont Gallery ex-
hibits is free to the public. Gallery
hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday
through Friday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Saturday, and 2 to 4 p.m. Sunday.

otbideeusmoneuumeprrnion
Soom nem aeuteiey

 

FOR SALE!

‘84 Camero - fully equipped 30,000
miles.

‘81 Toyota Terrel - excellent condi-
tion, AM/FM stereo. Call 463-2488.

 

 

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

OR DELIVERED

 

Se

 

e Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin 'N Crispy®
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

* Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 11:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri,).

e Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

e Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

¢ Each Wednesday night,
5:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only $3.49. Children under 6
years-99,

 

 

    

»
Hate

© 1985 Pizza Hut, Inc

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington

463-7000

 

 

ASCOT Ae ees eeeeae
