+

 

Shorts writer

Carver to speak
on Wednesday

    
   
    

Page 3

ii om
bay | ist

iw

 

Sports writer

pie and dreams

 

Shades on sports:

 

 

ill

 

Your weekend weather:

 

 

 
    

 

 

 

 

Page 5

Sunny on Saturday
Chance of rain on Sunday

 

Che King-tium Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 5

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 9, 1986

 

IFC discusses Rush
and beer gardens

 

By SEAN BUGG
Editor

 

, The Interfraternity Council met
Tuesday and discussed a number of
issues facing the Washington and Lee
fraternity system.

, IFC president Chris Saxman
brought up the possibility of new
University guidelines at the pavilion
for concerts and other functions. Sax-
man asked for the group’s feelings on
having a ‘“‘beer garden’,’’ a section of
the pavilion roped off and accessible
only to those of legal drinking age.

, One IFC representative mentioned
that he had seen the “‘beer garden” in
use at mixers at some of the
surrounding women’s colleges, and
did not feel that it was the best thing
for W&L. Saxman pointed out that
the issue may come down to either a
beer garden or no beer at all.

' Saxman asked the group how they
felt Rush went this year. Saxman
said he felt that there were ‘‘too
many guys blatantly breaking rules
to get more pledges.”

Many of the fraternities represent-
ed felt that the Rush period this
year was too long. Associate Dean of
Students Larry C. Atkins urged the
fraternities to evaluate their Rush
system and find ‘‘what is right and
‘wrong.”’

Atkins said that some faculty ad-
visors are pushing for a deferred
Rush, and the fraternities need to

figure out their position on the matter
in an objective fashion.

Saxman asked the representatives
to give the Council their suggestions
for next year’s Rush.

Many fraternities have been ask-
ing where the money the IFC collects
from fines is going. Saxman told the
group that the money is being held
for use later in the year for some-
thing like a charity organization or a
Greek Week.

One fraternity suggested the IFC
hold an “air guitar’’ band contest in
GHQ, with proceeds going to a
chosen charity, as a way of improv-
ing the fraternity system’s reputa-
tion.

All fraternities are being required
to turn in a copy of their pledge
education programs to Saxman, in-
cluding information such as the func-
tion of big/little brother systems.

Dean Atkins asked the fraternities
to ‘‘abandon the ways of the past,”
concerning hazing. ‘Organized
drinking functions are included in
hazing,”’ Atkins said, ‘‘and in fact are
the worst thing you can do.”’

The Council also discussed the rule
that bars women from being in the
fraternity house of a fraternity that is
on social probation.

A large number of representatives
said the rules were unfeasible since
the fraternity houses double as
residences for some members, and
those who live there often have

Psychologist proposes
trial support group

By VALERIE PIERSON
Staff Reporter

 

University Psychologist James
Worth suggested the formation of a
support group for students accused of
honor violations at the meeting of the
Executive Committee Monday night.
This group would help those accused
of honor violations deal with the
stress of the honor proceedings,
which Worth termed ‘‘sufficiently
great to warrant supportive efforts.”

Worth explained to the committee

hat students had observed a need for
such a group and asked that he pre-

ent the proposal to the EC. Worth
ted a case in which he thought the
used student did not deal effec-
ely with stress during the pro-
ding and withdrew from the
versity.
axisting support groups are inade-
ate for the needs of the student ac-
ed, he said. Most advisors to an
cused student are not bound to con-
fidentiality regarding the discussions
of the student’s case.

The proposed support group would
consist mainly of peer counselors
who have been acquitted on charges

~t, EN

 

in previous cases, Worth said. These
students, specially trained by Worth,
would provide emotional support to
students being tried. All information
regarding the case, including admit-
ted guilt or innocence, would be con-
fidential within the student-counselor
group.

This proposal has met with resis-
tance from several members of the
EC. Vice President Brandt Surgner
expressed his concern that there
could be a breach of confidentiality
by the counselor. ‘It’s hard enough
now to keep everything confidential.
If you bring in others, then there will
just be more problems,”’ he said.

Surgner also questioned the quali-
fications of peer counselors to deal
with the emotional stress of another
student. The University already has
trained professionals who would be
better equipped to handle a student’s
stress, he said.

Senior representative Andrew
Caruthers said he agreed and that
the EC should not ‘“‘sponsor a group
which may potentially contradict the
Honor System by hearing confes-

() See Worth, page 4

: ag - :
‘ae «Ae BS
- “yy a : 5

ee

ey *.

     

 

| We’re tied up!

girlfriends who visit at various times
during the week.

Dean Atkins said that the rule was
structured that way in order to take
away all social aspects of a fraternity
during the probation period.

The IFC will have a chance to
change the rule if they want at the
next meeting, when amendments to
the Council’s constitution will be con-
sidered. For an amendment to pass it
must receive a two-thirds vote and be
passed at two consecutive meetings.

Saxman told the representatives to
read over the constitution and think
out any problems they have with it.
Proposed amendments must be
brought up at the next meeting.

This Saturday there will be a
Fraternity Symposium at the Moot
Courtroom in the Law School from 9
a.m, to4p.m. Saxman told the frater-
nities to send five representatives, in-
cluding the president. Represen-
tatives from all the W&L frater-
nities’ national organizations will be
present.

In other IFC business:

The Pi Kappa Phi fraternity
received a week of social probation,
which has not been assigned pending
a possible appeal by the fraternity.

The Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity
are currently under investigation for

a possible Rush violation during the
past weekend.

 

This is dedicated...

 

 

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

University President John D. Wilson speaks at the dedication of the newly restored Joella and Stewart
Morris House on the Front Campus. Wilson alse participated in the Symposium on the Art and Architec-
ture of Washington and Lee University in the 19th Century. See story, page 3.

 

 

 

Chow down

The freshmen of Eric Turner’s hall enjoy a catered roast beef dinner at the dining hall last Thursday
night. The hall won the Banner Contest held during the W&L Emory and Henry game on Sept. 13th.

=a Auction gives view of

ae

:

: &
pa > | -~’

EY

E
F

 

r We shin tage

By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Randolph-Macon wide receiver Lance Herring splits the General Defense to tie the score of last Sun-
day’s game at 20-20 with seconds left, See complete story, page 5.

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

 

A SEAT RRR NEM
By CHRIS MUNSEY

Staff Reporter

 

Every other Saturday night, the Sam Houston Ruritan
Club holds an auction in a long silver building a mile
down Route 645, just off Route 11. The parking lot is
crowded with pickup trucks, the hall filled with local
families sitting patiently in long rows of battered seats.

The auctioneer stands behind a white desk on a raised
platform at the front of the hall, almost like a preacher
exhorting his congregation as he breathlessly conducts a
rapid-fire bidding on goods displayed by several assis-
tants.

One of the men working with the auctioneer holds up a
hair dryer being sold, doffs his Cat diesel hat and runs the
dryer across his shiny bald head. Another cranks away at
a ragged yellow chainsaw, which coughs noisily but
refuses to start. The interest of the audience is kept by
alternating from boxes of junk to more expensive pieces
such as beds, refrigerators, chairs, dressers, washing
machines and wooden tables.

Sometimes a story goes with the sale, as the auctioneer
explains the appearance of a washer and dryer in good
condition upon the stage. ‘‘The preacher that lives up
over on that hill moved to Florida and couldn't get’em on
his truck.”” The washing machine is sold for $160, after a
fierce bidding war between two women on opposite sides
of the hall.

What will sororities do to
W&L’s social life? Read
what students think, in Talk
Back, page 3.

 

A new art exhibit is opened
at the library. See page 4.

 

Generals lose to Randolph-
Macon in the final seconds of
game. Get the full story on
page 5.

 

How about that Ferris
Bueller? See our fearless
critic’s review, page 6.

 

 

 

 

2°
FRR
1g Ngee

Bidding for the first time is an exhilarating experience
for the novice. A fadéd Persian rug is dragged to the
display area, ahd this reporter decides to join the fray.
The dizzying speed of the bidding is confusing, and a
woman across the hall gets the rug for $14. A rheumatic,
elderly assistant shuffles up and hands it to me by
mistake.

A short, squat woman swoops down and grabs the rug
as I fumble for my checkbook. ‘‘You’ve got my rug’’ she
says with a faintly menacing smile. I agree and hand it to
her quickly.

The Ruritans have held auctions around the Rock-
bridge area for the past 20 years, according to John Cash,
a 1948 Washington and Lee graduate who has worked at
the auctions for several years. ‘‘The money is used for
worthwhile charities, things like kids’ tuition and camp.”

The auction season lasts from May to the early weeks
of November, and different lots of goods are fenced off
for each auction on both sides of the hall. The Ruritans
take a 25 percent commission if they hauled away the
merchandise, and 15 percent if someone else brought it to
the hall.

About three more auctions are planned for this season.
During the winter, the seats that fill the hall will be stack-
ed upon the stage, and the main floor will be used as a
storage area. Anyone short on cash and hungry for a bar-
gain should attend at least one of the final auctions,
before winter arrives and the hall is silent, holding only
memories of the auctioneer’s cries.

 
OPINION
Supportive

‘ At last Monday’s EC meeting, Dr. Worth, the school
‘psychologist, asked for the EC’s reaction to the idea of a sup-
‘port group of students for students who are undergoing an
‘honor trial. Dr. Worth suggested that this group could be

‘made up of students who had either gone through an honor

_: trial themselves or had a friend who went through an honor
“trial, as well as other students who are interested in helping

‘others. These students would receive special training in

counseling and they would be under the close supervision of

“Dr. Worth.

Dr. Worth explained that the primary function of this group

“would be to provide emotional support, not to provide legal

“counsel. A student who is undergoing an honor trial is ob-

-” S viously under great stress from the moment he hears he is to
“.: be charged until the time of the final decision. Often, under
“such stress, it is hard to keep up with the day to day aspects

-of living, such as getting homework done, or doing laundry. A

--:- support group could offer someone to talk to at 3 a.m., when
~-- an accused person might have trouble keeping his wits about

| ces him, .
cc The EC raised several valid points about this support
“group. During a session in which the support group members
- are talking with the accused student, it is likely that certainly

the name of the accused and the details of the alleged offense
would be discussed. The EC has traditionally kept these
details secret as a defense for those students who are later
proven innocent and who remain in the W&L community. The

-"-more people who know these details, the more likely it is that

they could be told to someone of the general public.

Dr. Worth suggested that the support group members
could make it known from the start that they did not want to
discuss details of the trial. This seems to be the best way to
handle the issue of confidentiality. Dorm counselors, legal
advisors, and friends to whom the accused student may con-
fide details of his case or even confess his guilt or innocence
are under no obligation to keep those facts confidential.

Many of these people do, mainly because they have given

their word to the accused student, but it really is a judgement

: call on the part of that individual counselor, legal advisor, or

~ friend.

. The EC questioned the neutrality of these support group
students in regard to the advice they might give on obtaining

-.. Jegal representation or handling themselves in front of the

EC. Perhaps the member of the support group didn’t think

his legal representation did a very good job, or thinks he
: "might know how particular members of the EC are likely to

vote. —
There was also a question raised about the liability of the

"group. If an accused student later feels he made some bad

-_ decisions as the result of the advice he received from the sup-

 

Tet
«aN ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HI 2 Ww ater.

 

 

 

 

 

:' It seems that a support group wo
‘System to function more effectively, in that a student who
‘* handles the stress of an honor trial better could also explain

°
-
°

We

port group, could the individual members of the group be

sued? Because the group is under the supervision. of Dr.
_ Worth, and Dr. Worth is an employee of the University, could

_ the University be sued? ~

We agree with Dr. Worth that a support group for students
undergoing an honor trial would be a valuable asset. There
seems to be a real need for such a group. Dr. Worth stated
several students he has been in contact with, who themselves

-~had been through an honor trial, have said they would have

ve ‘benefited from such a group. Several students expressed in-
¢:. terest in becoming a member of the support group.

Pp
ould allow: the Honor

‘his defense more clearly and coherently. The EC wants to

bs _-find out the truth, not have the student leave before the truth
"ean be determined because the stress is too much to handle.

Ideally the Honor System is not something to be afraid of,
and if an accused student is innocent, then he need not worry.
Yet realistically, being accused of an honor offense is very
tramautic whether you’re innocent or not (especially if you
are innocent). =

Yet the idea of a support group is also a good ideal. To have
a group that would offer support without playing judge or
without leaking privileged information would be great, but is
it a realistic expectation? Everyone on the W&L campus
knows how fast gossip travels, especially news as juicy as

honor violations. It seems that the EC is only right to try to
__ limit possible ways that this information could leak out.

The EC and Dr. Worth should work to reach a compromise.

The idea of a support group is a valuable one. Perhaps the

students in the support group could sign cards saying they
.. would not discuss what they hear while counseling an accus-
. ed student nor would they testify against that student with in-

formation learned from those counsultations. While signing
these cards is not legally binding, it is better than nothing. Or
the support group members could, as Dr. Worth suggested,
let the accused student know from the onset that the student
should not discuss the facts of the case. We hope that the EC
-...and Dr. Worth can come up with some satisfactory com-

“promise for the support group. To reject the proposal
“: altogether would be to throw the baby out with the bath

    

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

KS NEWS STAFF

i* CII oo cccrecccccndnecerspceseecereeseenssceccecescscnenecceees Jason Lisi
Sean Bugg
Managing Editor, Entertainment Editor. ,...........seseseeseeeeess Marshall Boswell
ss Gperts WAGE... cc ccccccccccssssccccccccccescsessssoccccesssencese David Emrich
ss Photography Editor. .........csceccscceseeccccsscccsccceesessssscenes Perry Hayes
ss Pam III ooo 0 5c Zac sis cans ccccvaerscciyeveascsscseces Mike Shady

“3 EDITORIAL PAGE
\"e Editorial Page Editor .......ccsccccsccccccccccccccecscesscsescceseees Marte Dunne
I: Cartoonist. ........ccccesecerceccnsensseceeenseesserseesesssessenes Chris Bowring

} iS BUSINESS STAFF

Ie Business Manager ...........ccccsceceeereecesessssespassaseceeuesens Greg Turley
le Advertising Mamager .........0.scccccseseceeceecrsceneessesseeeeeees Robert Jones

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 290 of
the Student Ceuter/byS):tn Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity. :

 

YO) BETTER BRAND THESE

PLEDGES NOv) , JOHN...

WE'RE HAVING A HARD

 

WE CAN’T LET ANYBODY KNOW

TIME FLUNG OUR Quota |!”

The Ring-tum Phi, October 9, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MY VIEW
By Chris Carter

As I reflect upon my four years
here at Washington and Lee, the
repercussions of the Board of
Trustee’s decision of the summer of
1984 are becoming increasingly
distressing. I am not referring to the
addition of women to the ranks of
W&L men: I have been an ardent
supporter of coeducation from the
beginning. I am thinking rather of
the far more important (in my opi-
nion) decision to increase the size of
our undergraduate student body
from 1350 to 1500.

I recall hearing several dishearten-
ed people say on the anniversary of
Bastille Day in 1984 that “W&L just
wouldn’t be their university any
more — it would never be the same!”
I think that they may have been right
— but.for the wrong reason. When I
first walked the Colonnade as a
freshman I was one of a class of 360.
Almost everybody had single rooms.

There was no need to register for a
carrel in the library. The biggest
class I had was forty-five, and the
department concerned offered to pay
the drop/add fee for leaving the
course in order to get the class down
to a more manageable size. Now that
there’s well over 400 in a class, one
must “register” for carrels and
make sure that they look “‘lived in,”’
and we’re going to have to start giv-
ing the freshmen courses in how to
cope with claustraphobia. ("You
mean that’s a closet? I thought it was
a mini-fridge!”’)

So what’s the problem — just build
a new dorm (we’re doing that but it’s
for upperclassmen and won’t ease
the Graham-Lees crowding a bit),
put more carrels in the library, and
hire more profs, right? Wrong!
There’s no place to put any of the
above. We are fresh out of dorm
space unless you want to live out past
Liberty Hall (and you thought the
walk from KA was already too

long!.), the library is such a pleasant’:

place to study because it is roomy
and uncluttered (been to VMI lately,
anyone?), and professors have to

have offices, of which we are in
precious short supply. Not to mention
that all of the above cost money and
tuition goes up enough every year
itis. .
With regard to professors and their
offices, consider the plight of the
Romance Language Department.
Due to increased number of fresh-
men and the new general education
requirements, there are four more
Romance Language professors here
than there were my freshman year.
In order for them to have a place in
which to bleed on our quizzes, room
403 was converted into offices. That’s
fine except that now (due to increas-
ed numbers of students) there are so
many classes in that department that
a French class is being taught in Du-
Pont and Spanish is being taught in
Newcomb — not that there is any-
thing wrong with such cross-fertili-
zation, but if we continue like this we
will quickly reach a saturation point.
Just since I’ve been here I've notic-

ed that increasing ‘numbers of ~

classes are being taught at the ex-
treme ends of the day; it’s eight in
the morning or four in the afternoon,

Larger undergrad body bothers studen

especially when that class still
twenty-five people in it. In such a1
mosphere, the ‘‘personal learning
perience” of which the Admiss
Office waxes so eloquently just is
taking place.

When the Board of Trustees
nounced that class size would
crease, I think most of us were th
ing about their other decision of
same day. We have dealt rather
with coeducation, I think, so we 1
now to confront the numbers
blem. Why was the change mad
thought 360 was a very nice class
and one to which the physical pla:
this university was geared.
students is too small a differenc
attract prospective students or fz
ty who are daunted by our small:
but it is a huge number to those «
who came here because of it!
English professor recently men
ed to me, as she marked paper:
one of her classes of 30, that she

ling to think it was a myth,
talk of small classes and intin
learning experiences at W&L: I c
think it is a myth, but somet
must be done lest it become one.

ls the War Between the States over?

 

MY VIEW
By Abb Jones

Personally, I’d like to know when
this whole North vs. South thing is go-
ing to end. I mean, the way some peo-
ple at this university act, you would
think the Civil War is scheduled to
resume later this century. Occasion-
al kidding about a Texan’s pronun-
ciation of the word ‘‘oil business’’ as
“all business” is understandable,
just as joking with a Bostonian about
visiting ‘‘Hah-vad University in Bah-
stan’ rather than visiting “‘Harvard
University in Boston” is sometimes
acceptable. It’s when people refer
negatively to the people of a certain
area because of firmly imprinted im-
pressions of WHAT-THEY-THINK-

THEY-KNOW that problems arise.
Stereotyping people according to
outdated geographical aspects is not
only bizarre but ridiculous. It
especially frustrates me when I hear
someone who has never even been
past the Mason-Dixon Line try to

geographical regions based on the
few perceptions they have gained
from a limited number of people they
have met either at W&L (which, by
the way, is not necessarily a total
composite picture of either the North
or the South) or elsewhere. You
would think that, this being an
academic institution filled with in-
telligent people and all, people would
realize just how senseless and untrue
these unfounded yet overly-repeated
myths are. Contrary to popular
-belief, people from the South are not
all bigoted, shallow idiots who talk

funny, and people from the North are
not all unfriendly, backstabbing
jerks who talk funny. (Yes, I’m
afraid it’s true. We ALL talk funny.)
Granted, there are people who fit into
these categories, but let’s not judge
the whole barrel by a few bad apples.

Just because there are distin-
guishing aspects of these two regions
does not mean they are wrong or bad.
Isn’t it better to learn about and
understand the unknown rather than
to ridicule it? When I first came to
Washington and Lee, one of the
things that fascinated me most was
the extremely diverse demographics
of this school. People from practical-
ly every state in the union, not to
mention several countries, attend
W&L. Shouldn’t we at least make an
effort to learn about each other
rather than be satisfied with staying
within our closed, confined (and

LETTERS

limited) groups from our
regions?

In today’s times especially,
people moving throughout the U!
States due to jobs or other reaso
is becoming more evident that
ple’s preconceptions about ce
parts of the country are beco)
more realistic. Therefore it si
essential for us to realize that |
have changed. Besides, how d
know we won’t end up working
living in one of these regions thi
so often criticize because we fi
take the time to understand
other? All I’m saying is this: |
an effort not to stereotype peop.
‘North/South criteria. The w:
over, folks. Let’s put an end to tl
misconceptions of the North
South too. After all, we’re A
cans, not Northerners and Sou!
ers.

 

 

Reader upset by inconsistencies in SCC rules

To the editors:

I address this letter to Washington & ‘Lee
because so many different committees are in-
volved that I feel addressing the letter to
Washington and Lee as a whole is necessary. I
would like an explanation of not one, but several
inconsistencies on the part of three different
committees — teachers, deans and students
—which I feel constitute Washington and Lee as
a whole. z

First, maybe someone from the SCC could tell
me why a convicted cocaine dealer was given a
one term suspension and I, who was found guilty
of two minor conduct violations (mainly “‘goof-
ing off in the dorms’’) and also found guilty of
breaking social probation was suspended for two
terms. I was told last year that the SCC deals
with cases on an individual basis, and that com-
paring the cases was “irrelevant.” Well, irrele-
vant or not, I don’t think anyone in their right
mind can say that what I did deserves a stiffer
punishment than dealing cocaine.

Then after explaining that case, maybe some-
one could give me an explanation for the follow-
ing. After I had received social probation for two
minor conduct violations, another student
received the same (social probation) for a major
conduct violation. I know that there’s no set rule

that two minor violations equals a major viola-
tion, but seeing that we received the same “‘sen-
tence’, one could say that the two violations
were not far from being different. Well, ironical-
ly, myself and the other student broke our social

probations on the same night, by doing the same
thing: entering a fraternity. Well once again in-
consistency prevailed, and I received my two
term suspension while the other student was
given extended social probation.

I appealed the decision to the SAC, thinking the
committee consisting of deans, teachers and
students would see the unfairness. When I
brought up the other two incidents involving the
other two students, I was told once again that it
was “irrelevant.”

Then I received another “‘slap in the face”’
when I learned that the student who broke his
social probation, as did I, was allowed to remain
at W&L, and was suspended for having a 1.4GPA
at the end of his freshman year. But he
appealed the decision and was allowed to
RETURN to W&L!!! So I guess when looking at
the bottom line, W&L saw two students who com-
mitted the same conduct violations and one hada
1.4 GPA and the other (myself) had a 3.0 GPA,
they saw it fit to keep the one student and sus-
pend me.

And there’s more. Finally before leaving W&L,
I was forced, as any W&L student, to report an
honor violation. It involved a senior who held a
high reputation for character and honor at W&L.
But he committed a honor violation. There was
no question about it. I witnessed it as did another
person. Both of us were questioned by the EC as
were other students. Again inconsistency pre-
vailed as the student was allowed to graduate. I
guess the EC figured since he was a senior close
to graduation and that he was well respected by

many, that it was o.k. for him to break |
“honor code.”’

I came to W&L for several reasons. Two i
portant ones were justice and honor. I’m not s:
ing that justice and honor don’t exist at Wé
they just don’t exist all the time. I regret hav:
to bring up the other cases involving the ot!
students but it was the only way to reveal the
justice and unfairness. I am expecting
response from any of the aforementioned cc
mittees or anyone involved in these incident:
usually get responses like, “‘if it’s honor, talk
the dean.” That's funny, I was under the impr
sion that justice and honor was everybody's bi
ness at W&L and that everybody must try
uphold these values.

Richard Gri
Ex-member of Class of 1

Darrell thanks volunteers

To the editors:

I wish to thank Tom Maurer and the brot!
of CHI PSI fraternity for their volunteer eff
in assisting with a Multiple Sclerosis fund rai:
project. This project was held in conjunc
with the appearance of the Budweiser Cly
dales in Lexington. Approximately $200 was 1
ed in the fight against MS.

Jerry Dai
MS Volun

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 9, 1986

 

Morris House events
honor its dedication

 

By SEAN BUGG
Editor

 

The Joella and Stewart Morris
House dedication took place Wednes-
day afternoon on the Front Campus,
bringing to an end the restoration of
the house originally built in 1842. The
4| dedication was held along with a
=| Symposium on the Art and Architec-
§} ture of Washington and Lee Universi-
im} ty in the 19th Century.

a ©. Students who usually park their
cars along Washington Avenue found
notes on their cars before the begin-
ning of the dedication, asking them to
move their cars to make room for the
visitors.

The arriving guests began register-
ing for the event Tuesday at 1 p.m. at
the Reeves Center. After that, they
were given a tour of the Front Cam-

and Glee Club.

until 12:30.

@| Tuesday night President and Mrs.
John D. Wilson held a reception for

j

q An open

This past summer, newspaper columnist George Will
contended that “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off” was the greatest
movie of all time, that it was “the one most true to the
general spirit of movies, the spirit of effortless escapism.”
On Saturday, | saw “Ferris Bueller” a second time and
wrote the following letter to Mr. Will.

Dear fellow Bruce Springsteen fan,

In June of this year, you wrote that ‘‘Ferris Bueller’s
Day Off’’ was the greatest movie of all time. Although
movie criticism is by nature subjective, I take offense
at the above assertion.

It’s not just that ‘Ferris Bueller” is neither the most
original nor the most funny movie I’ve ever seen. What
truly bothers me is your opinion that it lacks any
seriousness. I’ve seen “Ferris Bueller” twice and have
concluded that its serious undertones, as exemplified
by some of Matthew Broderick’s into-the-camera solilo-

ng ‘quies, destroy its “spirit of effortless escapism.” Put
lop

a

6h

the guests at Lee House.

After the reception, there was a
19th century dinner in honor of those
responsible for the restoration of the
Morris House. Held in Evans Dining
Hall, the dinner was followed by
songs from the University Chorus

The Symposium began Wednesday
with a morning session at 9 a.m. in
Lee Chapel. That session continued

The actual dedication of the Morris
House took place on the Front Cam-
pus after the morning session of the
symposium was complete.

A dedication luncheon followed the
dedication. It was held on the Front
Campus, and lasted until the begin-
ning of the afternoon session of the
symposium, which began around 2
p.m. and ended with a summation of
the events, sometime after 4 p.m.

Those participating in the sym-
posium were: Mr. J. Jackson Walter,
president of the National Trust for
Historic Preservation; Dr. Wilton S.
Dillon, Director of Symposia and
Seminars for the Smithsonian In-
Stitution; Mr. Jack W. Warner,
Chairman and Chief Executive Of-
ficer of Gulf States Paper; Miss
Christine Meadows, Curator for the
Mount Vernon Ladies Association of
the Union; Mr. Daniel P. Jordan,
Director of Monticello; Mr. John
Frazier Hunt, president of the
Decorative Arts Trust of America;
and Mrs. Leslie Cheek, Jr., member
of “y Board of Directors of Stratford
Hall.

Washington and Lee faculty and
administration participants were:
University President John D.
Wilson; Mr. James M. Ballengee,
Rector; Dr. Pamela H. Simpson,
Professor of Art History; and Mr.
James Whitehead, Secretary.

 

 

7
.

uf

ae |
pee
te

ty
'

4

5) g.*

 

By W. Patrick Hinley/WaL

The newly restored Morris House, which was dedicated during ceremonies on

Tuesday and Wednesday.

 

|LEXICON

letter to George Will from Steven Pockrass

simply, ‘Ferris Bueller” is too serious a movie.

I doubt that Ferris is a symptom of the “self-
absorption of youth corrupted by the complacency of
the Reagan years,” but he is an ass. He uses people,
especially his buddy Cameron, who seems more his
chauffer than his friend. Arguments can range about
whether Ferris is a likeable ass, and if Cameron is bet-
ter off at the end of the movie than at the beginning. But
regardless of how good you think the movie is, you can-
not deny that when Ferris tries to help Cameron loosen
up and not let life pass him by, he does so at Cameron’s
expense. The red Ferrari. symbolizes the danger of al-
lowing materialism to overpower human relationships,
yet isn’t it a materialistic day off for Ferris, his
girlfriend and Cameron?

Such arguments might make you think I am a stick-
in-the-mud, but believe me, I’m not. You think Ferris
goes too far with foul language. I didn’t mind the lan-
guage but thought Ferris went too far with his uncaring
use and abuse of other individuals.

 

NEWS BRIEFS

‘Student’s tape deck stolen from fraternity

A $300 cassette deck was taken from the Zeta Beta
nit’} Tau fraternity house Sunday morning, police reports
sft -

Py oe cassette deck was removed from the unlocked
PE house between 3 a.m. and9a.m., the report said.
_ Inother police action:

|” Senior Charles Browne was arrested Saturday morn-
MF ing on a charge of drinking in public and cursing and
PEt abusing a police officer, according to police reports.

~~ Police gave sophomore Ian Thompson a summons for
+ trespassing at the Lexington Post Office on Saturday

orning, reports said.
junior James Newton was charged with drinking in
public Saturday night.
~ Junior Richard Robins’ truck was attacked while out-
side the Sigma Phi Epsilon house this weekend.
Damage to the truck included scratches on the side and

|
| was estimated at $100.
|

ms

—By Peter Boatner

Blood drive Wednesday

   
   
  
  
     
 
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 

~ On Wednesday Oct. 15 the Rockbridge County Blood-
mobile will be sponsoring a blood drive in Doremus
Gymnasium, from 11 a.m. until 5 p.m.
: Two participation prizes will be awarded: one for the
= with the highest number of members, and
fone for the organization with the highest percentage of
members donating.
/» Campus organizations such as clubs, fraternities, and
dormitory halls may compete for the prizes, a keg of
beer for each category. In the event an underage
organization, such as a freshman dorm hall, wins, a
Supply of Domino’s pizza will be the alternate prize.
| Area blood supplies are low right now, and the Blood-
mobile urges everyone to participate.

  

=

PY NETO OE a ne LO ee OR oa eel inden

Pes

=@ mily business lecture

The co-director of the Program for Women in Family-
Dwhed Business at the Wharton Applied Research Cen-
pr will present a lecture, ‘‘The Dynamics of Managing
he Family Business,” at 8 p.m. today in room 327 of the
vommerce School.

‘Barbara Hollander, a consultant to such organiza-
ions as Mellon Bank, Westinghouse Electric Corp.,
Pennsylvania Hospital Association — as well as to
amilies who own businesses — will give the lecture as
of a two-day planning session for a summer con-
erence that will take place on campus in June, 1987.
‘Washington and Lee's Office of Summer Programs is
pponsoring the planning session for the development of
ne Family Business Institute, the newest addition to
hers tithe office's seven-week summer schedule.

ortsiRTA faculty committee for the Institute, comprised of
sing Dean Peppers and Anne Schroer, Professors
tion eeteger Dean, John DeVogt, Joseph Goldsten, and Larry
des: mont, and Summer Programs Director Robert Fure,
‘ais-Hpwill attend the lecture. Five alumni advisers — Scott
er, 69; John Boardman, Jr., '51; William Cooper,
rel e768; Greence, '64; and Bertram Schewel, '41 —
teer Will also attend the lecture.

88 sh@si8 Fes

  
 

+

The faculty committee and alumni advisers will con-
tinue the meeting on family business with Hollander
Friday morning. The group will discuss the concept of a
Washington and Lee Family Business Institute, a for-
mat for such a program, the issues that could be
studied, the resources available to the program and a
comparison to similar programs at other institutions.

Hollander earned a doctorate degree in Specialized
Professional Development from the School of Educa-
tion at the University of Pittsburgh in 1983. She trained
in the Family Therapy Clinic at the Western Psychia-
tric Institute and Clinic.

Culler to speak on criticism

Jonathan Culler, professor of English and com-
parative literature at Cornell University, will deliver
the fifth annual Shannon-Clark Lecture in English at
Washington and Lee University.

The lecture, entitled ‘‘Structuralism, Post-Structural-
ism, and Cultural Criticism: The Role of Contemporary
Literary Theory,” is scheduled for 8 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium in the University Library. The public is in-
vited. :

An authority on contemporary literary criticism,
Culler holds degrees from Harvard University and St.
John’s College, Oxford University. He is the author of a
number of books, including ‘Structural Poetics, The
Pursuit of Signs’ and ‘“‘On Deconstruction.’’ In addi-
tion, Culler is on the editorial board of New Literary
History, Diacritics, Publications of the Modern Lan-
guage Association and other prominent periodicals.

The Shannon-Clark Lectures in English were created
in 1982 to honor the memory of Edgar F. Shannon,
chairman of the Washington and Lee English Depart-
ment from 1914 to 1938, and Harriet Mabel Fishburn
Clark, a grandmother of the donor whose gift establish-
ed the lecture series.

VMI hosts conference

Among the panelists for Virginia Military Institute’s
upcoming Conference on space Oct. 16 and 17 is ABC
News Science Editor Jules Bergman.

Bergman, who holds the distinction of having covered
every manned spaceflight in the U.S. program, will be
on the Thursday night panel session called ‘‘Projects
Mercury, Gemini and Apollo Revisited.” He will be
joined by astronaut Donald K. ‘‘Deke’’ Slayton and Gen.
Sam Phillips, who was Apollo program manager. Their
panel is set for 8:15 p.m. in Jackson Memorial Hall, site
of all the panels.

The VMI conference, called ‘‘The Future of the Space
Program,” will include panel sessions at 4:30 p.m. on
Thursday as well, plus three more on Friday. All ses-
sions are open to the public without charge.

A 33-year veteran of ABC News, Bergman was the
first full time network science editor when ABC created
that post in 1961. After writing for Time magazine, and
a period of time with CBS, he began to concentrate on
science news when he joined ABC in 1952, He has won
numerous awards, including and Emmy, and has com-
pleted much of the.same training astronauts go
through.

 

“Star Wars,” the original ‘“‘Rocky’”’ and ‘Animal
House” are just a few of the many flicks more true to
the “general spirit of movies” than ‘Ferris Bueller.”
They may have had some foul language or debauchery,
but none had the serious undercurrents that dragged
down “Ferris Bueller.”

According to noted educator, author and speaker Leo
Buscaglia, MGM has taught that love is a man chasing
a women for six reels and finally catching her. Busca-
glia’s excellent point may be applied to much of life. Is
popularity and coolness the art of using people, of hav-
ing complete disregard for the property and lives of
others?

Even you seem to think that ‘Ferris Bueller” is not
really a cut above, when you write, ‘Oh, carry me back
tothe olden days, when almost all movies were like Fer-
ris Bueller — no nonsense about seriousness.”’

I don’t know about the olden days, but I do know that I
would rather fantasize about being a Luke Skywalker or
a Rocky Balboa thana Ferris Bueller any day. Give this

discerning moviegoer a good guy who steals the
enemy’s fire, not his friend’s father’s car.

Granted, ‘‘Ferris Bueller’ was a funny movie, but not
an overly memorable one. Perhaps you chose to over-
look its serious aspects, but they do exist. Please see it
again and see what you think. I’m using this letter as
one of my weekly columns for the student newspaper at
Washington and Lee University, and if you wish to res-
pond, I’d be honored to take a week off and allow you
equal space.

Sincerely,
Steven F. Pockrass
W&L ‘87

Lexicon is a sometimes humorous, usually opinionated
column about issues, events and people of interest to the
Washington and Lee community. A senior journalism ma-
jor from Indianapolis, Ind., Steve Pockrass encourages stu-
dent input and suggestions for future Lexicon tonics.

TALKBACK

 

How would
sororities affect

the social life

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sweatshirts.

 

 

Tim McMahon, senior, Milwau-
kee, They'd be an enhancement to
fraternity life by relieving some of
the party burden, but I don’t know
that we have enough girls yet.

 

 

Cynthia Walton, freshman, Little
Rock, Ark, It would help the boys
get to know the girls and think of
us more as females, instead of
buddies.

 

pt ae < =
re . ee ; ee : s b-
a" 6 + se
i + re
ae se
Interviews by David Battelstein, senior, Rhona Hughes, sophomore, York,
SYDNEY MARTHINSON Houston. I swear it would make Pa. It would be good for thé girls
girls competitive, backstabbing b- to have a sense of sistefhood.
—-es. I went to a school where I ex- They need an organizatior{: that
perienced sororities, and it’s like they can call their own. ve
Photographs by fraternities. They'll be known by ie
MATHEW HORRIDGE the three Greek letters on their :

 

 

(reshman,
Bethesda, Md. I don’t know that
they would. I can’t imagine guys

Ashley Tredick,

going there, because they

have
fraternities. :

 

 

    

Se
te

 

 

 
 

 

SiaAnnen heen me

rw

ete eaasaeeie

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 9, 1986

 

Art exhibit displayed at library

 

By VALERIE PIERSON
Staff Reporter

 

An art exhibit titled ‘(Cheek and
the Arts” will be on display in the
lower lobby of the Washington and
_ University Library through Nov.

"the prestigious collection traces
the career of Leslie Cheek Jr., who
planned. and constructed W&L’s
Skylark Farm retreat.

Consisting primarily of water-
colors, pencil sketches, architectural
plans and stage designs, the exhibit
contains not only works from Cheek’s
undergraduate years at Harvard
University in Cambridge, Mass., but
also those from his 20-year director-
ship of the Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts in Richmond. The chronological
display of his works shows the
maturation of his dramatic style of
museum installation.

Born in Nashville, Tenn., Cheek
demonstrated artistic talent at an
early age. He traveled widely and
developed a keen visual sense that
would prove valuable in later years.
Hoping to become an engineer,’
Cheek enrolled at Harvard in 1927,
but he soon was drawn to the fine
arts. After graduating from Har-
vard, he earned a degree from the
Yale University School of Architec-

Point cards now valid in W&L Co-op

By STACY MORRISON
Staff Reporter

 

Now, even the cheeseburger, fries
and Coke that you buy in the Co-op
can be charged home to Mom and
Dad. :

Users of the point card system now
can use their cards in the Co-op as
well as in Evans Dining Hall and the
General Headquarters, according to
Director of Food Services Gerald J.
Darrell. The point card, which can be
purchased or charged home at the
food service office in the University
Center,: contains 100 points that
cashiers mark off for the value of
food purchased.

Darrell said that he decided to of-
fer the point system in the Co-op due
to numerous suggestions from the
students,

Sophomore Mike Washington said
he thinks the point card is useful
because: ‘it is more convenient than
cash. ;

Darrell decided six years ago that
the school needed a meal plan for

    

ture, in New Haven, Conn.

He completed his education in 1935
but found himself in a somewhat un-
fortunate situation: it was the midst
of the Depression, and he was unable
to find a job with an architectural
firm.

So he started teaching architec-
tural history at the College of
William and Mary. During this time,
he was responsible for the organiza-
tion of one of the first fine arts
departments in the South. After
World War II, Cheek began his ste-
wardship at the Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts, which became one of the
region’s foremost art museums.

Under his leadership, museum mem-
bership steadily increased on a state-
wide level, and the collection was ex-
panded to include works by Renoir,
Poussin, Calder and Picasso.

In addition to its 31 watercolors and
pencil sketches, the exhibit also in-
cludes a 12-minute slide show that
provides an insightful overview of
the multi-talented Cheek. His wife,
Mary Tyler Freeman Cheek, is the
daughter of Pulitzer prize-winning
biographer Douglas Southall Free-
man. She was scheduled to be a guest
of the university during the dedica-
tion of the Morris House on Tuesday.

system is ideal, he said, because
students pay only for what they eat.

Also for the first time this year,
point cards were made-available to
faculty members. Darrell said that
approximately 12 faculty members
have purchased the point cards.

Darrell started the point card
system in GHQ two years ago, due to
student demand. Point cards are
honored in GHQ for most items ex-
cept beer and cigarettes. _.

Darrell said there are many basic
advantages of the point card system.
If a student eats fewer than 12 meals
a week in the dining hall, it is ‘‘the
most economical plan” — it’s less ex-
pensive than paying cash for each
meal bought, and it can be used for
more than one person at each meal.

The point card is also valid for the
big theme meals the “ining hall of-
fers throughout the year, such as Oct-
oberfest, Thanksgiving Feast and
Christmas Smorgasbord. These
theme meals, as well as all daily
meals, are purchased at reduced
prices for users of the point card.
“For example: the Christmas Smor-

those who ate fewer than 12 meals a __gasbord costs $7.50 cash but is only 7
week af the dining hall. He then points or $5.60,” according to an in-
started the point card system, fash- formation bulletin from the Food Ser-
ioned after similar meal plans inuse vices Department.

at larger: universities. The point card Another benefit of the point card is
F@ ae
; ha |
+c | Merle Norman é
af : College Square Shopping Center

3 463-1782

Na “October Specials’’

: Bring this ad in and receive discount prices on Wolfe System

a tanning bed sessions.

= § sessions withad ......... psisasian $25 .00

; 19 sessions withad ................ $45.00

# 20 sessions withad .............6- ‘ $85.00

i :

3 Solar Nails withad.............. ci $30.00

i ;

Sculptured Solar Nails

BERS are ees

_ Make your next party an

event to remember
MM A Oh

Have A Fireworks Display!
XM

Pyro-Technique, Virginia’s largest fireworks display company +
can provide spectacular fireworks shows in any price range. 2
For information call Bruce Buskey after 5:00 p.m. at 463-4519.

 

WHEKKKKKKYK . agence

 

30 N. Main Street

703-463-3020

 

 

——_ The,

WILLSON- as
Lexington, Virginia 24450 WALKE R}
HOUSE mj

Restaurant|

Enjoy our continuing 1986
Wednesday dinner.

Prime and Wine Special

8 oz. prime beef rib and glass of house white or red wine. House
salad, fresh vegetable, potato or rice included.

2 dinners for $19.86

BUMMER RARER RAR
———EE

  
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
     
  
        
     
     
      
    

     
 

  

 

 

a2 z Cais

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tom Phi

A painting from the Cheek exhibit.

 

 

 

 

oe 6-8 + 8 8 6 8 8 8s
a“ & 4 SD 4 48 SB EOS UM
o** & 8S BS 8 8 SS -
W&L FOOD SERVICE ;
a
Purchase Date .......... Name
a a a ee ee Yo % 4%
ao a ee = Ss. es eS S -
. = y 2 3 2
> & 6.4: s @ 2 *
A W&L Food Service Point Card
a.
a discount on daily specials at GHQ work it creates for cashiers and

and ‘‘point specials” that are offered
around the campus.

Point cards can be purchased. at
Evans Dining Hall for $90 for $100
worth of points. So far this year, says
Darrell, 483 point cards have been
purchased.

One disadvantage of the point
system is the great’ deal of manual

checkers. Points used anywhere
other than the dining hall must be
carefully recorded for food service
records.

The food services department will
be requesting an extended budget so
that next year it may. computerize
the point card system and reduce
manual work.

 

115 S. Main St.,

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

Stop by and open a charge account for all your
grocery needs. We will be glad to send your bill
home. We carry a complete line of fresh meats and
produce with a full line of name brand and generic
grocery items. Also, we have added a new deli line of
meats we carry for you in our butcher shop.

Prego Spaghetti Sauce, N.Y. Strips, Etc.

Serving the W&L community for over 30 years.

London Leather
Boot Shoppe Ltd.

Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center near D.M.V.
One day Service on all work—
and all leather work!
Excellent Shoe Repair!

 

Worth

 

CQ Continued from Page 1

sions”’ of an accused student and not
being able to report the confession.
He said that a student who hears an
confession and is sworn not to reveal
the facts is put in an uncomfortable
and undesirable position.

Caruthers questioned if a salaried
employee of the university should
take part in the administration of the
Honor System, which is mostly stu-
dent-run. Dr. Worth said the group
would not attempt to interfere with
the EC’s jurisdiction or role in the
Honor System.

'
ELEN EE LIE DEEN ELISE LLL LLL LEELA LEN LLL LEE LEILA LLL ILL ALLS LOLS SIL

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current
undergraduate senior class for
selection to Who’s Who Among
Students in American Colleges
and Universities may do so by
submitting the name and qualifi-
cations of that student to the Of-
fice of the Dean of Students in

The EC tabled the suggestion
gather student opinion and furth
discuss the issues. The commit
will vote on the group at its next Mo
day meeting.

In other EC action:

The EC welcomed David Nave, the}
new first-year Law representative]
Nave is a 1986 graduate of Washing:
ton and Lee and is from Oak Ridge,
Tenn.

A comittee has been formed to
review several Student Conduct
Committee rules. The committee is
composed of Andrew Caruthers, the
senior representative, Brandt Wood,
the junior representative, SCC chair-
man Mike McAllister and two other
members of the SCC.

Payne Hall 6 by October 15, 1986.

Criteria for selection to Who’s
Who include (1) scholarship, (2)
participation and leadership in
academic and extracurricular ac-
tivities, (3) citizenship and ser-
vice to Washington and Lee, and
(4) potential for future achieve-
ment.

 

Petitions for freshman offices
(Executive Committee represen-
tative, president, vice president
and University Council) are due in
the EC Room Oct. 13, 1986 at 6:45
p.m. Petitions may be obtained in
Carol Caulkins office in the
University Center. These will be
the only Petitions accepted.

MEETINGS

Squash Club—Organizational
Meeting: Thursday, October 9,
7:00 Room 113 in Student Center.
No experience . W&L is
a member of the United States
Squash Racquets Association.

Outing Club will hold a meeting
Friday at 7:00 p.m. in front of
GHQ, and its first day trip to
House Mountain Sunday at 1:00
p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Call 463-6694
-Rob or Jenny.

“The Law School Experience”
will be the subject of a panel
‘discussion led by four current
Washington and Lee Law Scheol
students, three of whom were
undergraduates: Tom Mack ’86,
Powell Starks ’83 and Dan Fetter-

man ’82. The panel is completed
_ Lori Ciarrocca ’88L. All
undergraduates interested in the
study of law are urged to attend on
Tuesday, October 14 at 7:00 p.m.
in Room 114 of the University
Center.

Foreign Study and _Inter-
collegiate Exchange Programs
Information Session. (Sponsored
by Foreign Study Committee. Call
Prof. Jim Williams for informa-
tion). Room 114, Tuesday, Octo-
ber 21, 7 p.m. University Center.

SERVICES

Need help with your writing?
The Writing Center will re-open
next week. Senior writing tutors
will be in Payne 2-B on Tuesday
and Thursday evenings from 7:00
p.m. to 10:00 p.m.

 

[GENERAL NOTES | NOTES

Resume Writing Workshop in |
room 109 of University Center at
3:00 p.m., Tuesday, Oct. 14.

FILMS

The Russian Film Series
presents ‘“‘DERSU UZALA”’
(USSR/JAPAN, dir. Akira
Kurosawa, 1975, color, 70 mm, 137
min.) on Friday, October 10, 7:30
p.m., 203 Reid Hall. This work in-
augurated the latest career-phase
of perhaps the greatest living film
director—a phase that also yield-
ed KAGEMUSHA and RAN. This
work represents Kurasawa’s
closest approach to a truly univer-
sal, culturally unbound film-form,
affirmed by winning both the
USSR’s Moscow Film Festival
Grand Prize and the USA’s Oscar
for Best Foreign Film in 1975. To
date, this is the only Soviet col-
laboration with foreign film-
makers. The result is a
cinemascopic saga of conflict bet- !
ween history and modernity, man
and nature, organization and in-
dividuality.

MISCELLANEOUS

Make up date for student ID
photos will be Oct. 22nd, 1 - 4 p.m.
in Room 128 of the University
Center, sideman t

Unclaimed pictures taken by
roving photographers at 1985’s
Fancy Dress can be claimed in
Carol Calkin’s office (RM 104 of
the University Center.

aH ei ef

 

 

Applications to take the U.S
Foreign Service Examination can
be picked up at Professor Covins’s
Office (Commerce 308). Deadline
for receiving the application is
Oct. 24th. Exam will be held on
Dec. 6, 1896.

   
 
    
    
    

It has come to the attention of
some of us that students are using
the Chessie Trail (the trail which
goes along the edge of the Maury
River) for motor use. This trail is
for those who like to jog or walk.
Use of motor vehicles is pro-
hibited and violators will be fined.
Please protect the trail.

 

 

This week’s specials:
Coke, Pepsi, Spaghetti,

 
 

 

;

eS
7
;

    
    

y

oan?
Pa |

 

SPORTS

 

Eo ee
ae ee

Fn Pe ee

Washington and Lee QB John Thornton (7) holds up the ball after scoring in

 

 

om

 

By Mathes

Saturday’s game against R-MC Thornton’s touchdown, which came early in the
fourth quarter, put the Generals up 14-7.

‘Soccer wins two;
: record above .500

 

By GARY McCULLOUGH
Staff Reporter

With two wins last week, 1-0 over
Roanoke yesterday and 3-1 over
Greensboro on Saturday, the
Washington and Lee men’s soccer
team vaulted over the .500 mark to
put their record at 4-3.

Yesterday afternoon, the soccer
Generals went down to Roanoke Col-
lege and won a close 1-0 contest.

The defense for both teams was ob-
viously very impressive, and no one
scored until junior John Coll found
the back of the net with the winning
goal, late in the second half.

“It was a pretty evenly played
match,” said head coach Rolf Pira-
nian.

The Generals continued their win-
ning ways this past Saturday by
defeating Greensboro College by the
score of 3-1.

“Defensively, we had some pro-
blems,”’ said Piranian. Piranian was
slightly disappointed that the team’s
defense wasn’t as sharp as it was in

X-country splits again but looks ‘encouraging’

 

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

It was an encouraging weekend
trip to Norfolk for the Washington
and Lee men’s cross-country team.
Coming away with a split, the
Generals (31 points) posted a 36 point
blow-out of host Norfolk State (67
points) and narrowly missed upset-
ting Roanoke (29 points), who are
the defending Old Dominion Athletic
Conference champions.

The women’s team was not as for-
tunate and ended up losing to Norfolk
State, 18-37.

Junior Ash Andrews was the first
General across the line, finishing in
third place with a time of 27 minutes

Water polo still hasn

 

By MATHEW HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The water polo team seems to have
developed a pattern of play in tour-
naments this fall; blow out two or
three teams and then drop a close
game to finish second.

At the first round of the Southern
League Tournament this weekend,
the Generale ‘idn’t come in second
place — but: .sn’t exactly a tour-
nament,

The tournament is played in three
rounds with the third of the three be-
ing the championship round. The
results of the first two rounds are us-

the game against Sewanee. ‘‘It was a
test of character as I saw it,” said
Piranian. ‘The flow of the game
went against us when they tied it up,
pi we kept pressing toward the

this

.The score wasn’t indicative of
these problems as Greensboro was
only allowed one goal. The main dif-
ficulties were between the backfield
and the midfield, but the defense,
especially junior goalie Chris Gareis,
responded well when it had to.

“We seem to have established our
defense pretty well,” said Gareis. He
also commented that the team
members are starting to get more of
a feel of where everyone is on the
field and a steadily improving team
coordination is a result of this.

While W&L was struggling defen-
sively, goals by senior Peter Von Son
and freshmen Scott Levitt and Rick

Silva provided the scoring punch.

sas

Gareis, as well as Piranian, was
very optimistic when discussing the
General’s chance at a successful
season.

and 37 seconds over the 5.2 mile
course. Following close behind were
senior Scott Rippeon (fourth-place,
27:52) and senior captain Ed Myers
(fifth-place, 28:02). Junior Richard
Moore and senior Doug Turrel, ninth
and tenth-place respectively, closed
out the scoring for W&L.

What made the meet so encourag-
ing was the impressive showing the
Generals turned in against the
Maroons, who return all their run-
ners from last year’s championship
squad.

“The ODAC may be a lot tighter
this year,’ said head coach Dick
Miller. “We made [the race] close
and may have won it if we ran just a
little better.”

The Generals were helped out
largely by a gutsy race from Moore,

ed to determine the seedings for the
championship round.

On Friday and Saturday, the
Generals romped against Mary
Washington (winning 21-2), the
University of North Carolina—
Wilmington (14-5) and Lynchburg
(18-4). Only the host team, George
Washington University, managed to
keep its losing score close, 11-6.

And, for the second week, the
Spiders of the University of Rich-
mond proved to be the spoilers for an
otherwise perfect weekend.

Richmond, ranked 19th in the na-
tion, beat the Generals 10-7 in the last
game of the weekend.

“We came out flat in the first
quarter,”” sophomore Matt Brady
said. Richmond established a 7-1 lead

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 9, 1986

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee football
team only trailed for one second in
last. Saturday’s Old Dominion
Athletic Conference contest against
Randolph-Macon. Unfortunately, it
was the final second of the game.

The Yellow Jackets scored with
one tick left on the clock capping a 58-
yard drive on a tipped 21-yard
touchdown pass which gave Ran-
dolph-Macon a hard fought 21-20 vic-
tory. It was the Generals’ third
defeat inas many games.

The Generals scored the only

points of the first half on a 17 yard

pass from senior quarterback Jon
Thornton to tight end Garfield
Prebor. Kicker Bill Crabill added the
extra point with 3:55 remaining in the
first half.

The Yellow Jackets tied the game
on a 41 yard interception return by
linebacker Todd Rogers. Thornton
“probably couldn’t see him coming,”
said head coach Gary Fallon, poin-
ting out that Rogers was moving out
from his middle linebacker position
as the ball was released. The conver-
sion attempt by Macon kicker Lance
Hering tied the score at seven with
four minutes left in the third quarter.

W&L started the scoring explosion
in the fourth quarter with a one yard
run by Thornton, capping a drive
which could be the first half of the
senior quarterback’s career high-
light film. Thornton completed key
throws to seniors Randy Brown and
Bobby Wilson in a drive which gave
the Generals a seven point lead with
11:12 remaining.

Starting Yellow Jacket quarter-
back Rick Kline left the game late in
the third quarter with six comple-

 

Junior Goalie Chris Gaeris deflects a shot against
Greensboro on Saturday, Gaeris also shut out Roanoke yester-

 

day afternoon as the Generals won both their games last week.

who was sick before the race even
started.

“Apparently,” said Rippeon, “‘he
[Moore] was ill, but he still ran a
great race. Ash Andrews also ran
very well.”

WA&L is “looking better as a team,”
said Rippeon, as the all-important
depth was much more evident at
Saturday’s meet. Only 1:45 se-
parated the General’s top five run-
ners. The displacers, junior Greg
Casker and freshman Joe Geitner
are now only a little more than 3
minutes off the pace.

“We ran well and I was very en-
couraged,”’ said Rippeon. “It was a
flat course and we are more used to
running hills. It should be very close
at the ODAC championship and I
think we have a chance to beat
Roanoke,” he said.

Senior Steve Pockrass, who was
running at the sixth or seventh spot,
has been sidelined with an ankle in-
jury and will hopefully be back in
about two weeks.

The W&L women’s team, in just its
second year of operation, was led by
the fourth-place finish of freshman
Catherine Baillo (23:37) and the
sixth-place effort of Patsy Sciutto
(24:11) over the 3.1 mile course.

Miller, also the women’s coach,
was pleased with what he saw. “I
was impressed with the women. They
are much improved over last year,”
he said.

This Saturday the men’s team will
run against Catholic University in
Washington, D.C., and the women
will participate in the State Cham-
pionships at Liberty University.

‘t solved the Spiders

in the first quarter.

“Richmond built up a 7-1 lead and
coasted home with the win,’’ head
coach Page Remillard said.

“On the whole we did not play that
well, but I was pleased with a few of
our players,’ he added. Remillard
said freshman Adam Morgan and
sophomore Tom Rawls had good
games against Richmond.

Co-captain Simon Perez said he
was unsure why the team has not
been able to beat the Spiders.

“‘We have good practices all week”’
before Richmond games, Perez said.
“We haven’t been able to put a good
game together.”’

The Generals will face Richmond
again Homecoming weekend at Cy

Twombly Pool in the second round of
the Southern League Tournament.

This weekend the Generals travel
to Brown University to participate in
the Northeast Varsity Invitational.
The Generals will face Army, Buck-
nell, Fordham and MIT.

Perez predicted victories over Ar-
my and MIT. W&L have never played
Fordham but Perez said game films
showed Fordham to be sloppy.

Bucknell may prove to be the
Generals’ toughest opponent. Perez
said Bucknell is the only team on the
East Coast that a Remillard team
has not tied or beaten.

“Bucknell is missing some key
players,’ Perez said. ‘‘We plan on
going 4-0 this weekend.”’

tions for only 38 yards, and sopho-
more Paul Dillard came in to put ona
show. In less than 25 minutes, Dillard
completed 7 of 12 passes for 145 yards
and two touchdowns and left the
crowd of 2700 wondering why Kline
had even been on the field.

The Generals responded with the
second half of Thornton’s highlight
film. Once again, Thornton “‘thread-
ed the needle,” according to Fallon,
leading the Generals to a first-and-
goal situation on the Randolph-
Macon one-yard line. On third down,
running back Kevin Weaver scored
to give W&L the lead and set a school
record for points scored in a career
with 158. With only thirty-two
seconds left in the game, no one
realized that the block of Crabill’s
conversion attempt would end up be-
ing the deciding factor, except
maybe Fallon, who told one of his
players that “‘It’s not over yet!”’

The box score of the game reported
that the winning touchdown came on
a 2l-yard pass from Hering to
Dillard, but even the Yellow Jackets
would have to admit that the play
didn’t even resemble the diagram in
Coach Blackburn’s playbook.

At least three players touched the
ball after it left Dillard’s hands, and
two of them were wearing blue
shirts. But Hering came down with
the ball, and the Yellow Jacket bench
poured onto the field. After order was
restored, Hering kicked the extra
point to complete the scoring.

After the touchdown play, the
Yellow Jackets had been assessed
two 15 yard unsportsmanlike conduct
penalties on the TD, so Hering had to
kick off from his own ten. Chris Cof-
fland was tackled at midfield, and
the Generals fell by one point for the
second week in a row.

By Mike Shady

Shades on sports

Assistant Sports Editor

2

 

Football falls to R-MC in final seconds

The loss left the Generals looking
ahead to Maryville, the only other
winless team in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. At first glance,
the Generals would appear to have.
an edge, Centre crushed Maryville,
36-14, while W&L lost to Centre by on-
ly a point, But Fallon is reluctant to
draw such comparisions, saying that
the Generals will try to play “with
the same intensity and the same en-
thusiasm and the same eagerness to
win that we had (last) Saturday.”

This will be Maryville’s home
opener, and Fallon expects the vic-

tory to go to “‘the team that wants it.
the most.” :

Fallon said the Scots feature a’’
passing offense with ‘‘super
receivers,” two talented quarter-
backs, and capable runners. Defen--
sively, Maryville’s main asset is
quickness, said Fallon, although the
Scots do have some size. ‘“The most:
frightening thing about it is that
they’re going to be hungry,...but I>
have to think that we’re going to be
just as hungry.”’ a

HASHMARKS—Fallon was glad to~
see Weaver as the
Generals’ all-time scoring leader,
but he is certain that the senior run-
ning back ‘‘would have traded in any
kind of individual honors” for a vic-
tory on Saturday. ‘‘That’s the kind of,
individual that Kevin is,” said’
Fallon... Kickoff is set for 1:30 Satur-
day afternoon at Honaker Stadium in
Maryville, Tennessee. W&L leads the
series, 5-4, and won last year, 42-17...
Head Coach Larry Stephens, a 1972.
graduate of Maryville College, is in.
his first year with the Scots... Mary-
ville lost last week to Cumberland.
College, 34-17... ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

It’s only a dream

«« the pie in the sky turned out to be miles too high...”

—Roger Waters

I was sitting around the other day (avoiding work as usual) just
listening to some tunes, when those words caught my attention. They
brought back to mind visions of my younger days on the playing field
and, suddenly, I realized that this simple phrase summed up my entire
athletic life.

Almost every athlete dreams of becoming a professional or olympic
star at some time or other during his youth. I remember
hours on end down in my basement, imagining that I had just thrown a
perfect game in the deciding game of the World Series, or had rushed
for three hundred yards as my team won the Super Bowl. When I was
ten years old, I wouldn’t believe that I would never make it profes-
sionally in one of the many sports I participated in. My goal was to ob-
tain the ultimate pinnacle in athletic competition — superstardom at
the professional level — and then live happily ever after.

I’m sure that many people have felt the same way that I did (come
on, admit it) and also have felt the same foolishness that I feel now
when recalling those past experiences. Hell, I still go up to the gym to-

day and pretend that I’m Larry Bird or Charles Barkley and play out
my fantasies.

Well, get to the point, Shades. What’s all this garbage you’ve been
feeding us really mean anyway?

Look at the quote. “The pie in the sky” is the athlete’s dream.
“Turned out to be miles too high’’ is the realization that the dream will
never come true.

As I got older, the competition got better. I no longer was the star.
Accepting this fact can be difficult, probably the toughest thing I have
ever had to face. Nothing hurts your pride more then someone telling
you that you’re not good enough, especially when that someone is
yourself.

Take a glance at today’s sports figures and it becomes obvious that
even the few who make it big are still posed the identical problem. Do
the names Steve Carlton, Phil Neikro, Pete Rose and Reggie Jackson
ring a bell? These guys refuse to believe that they can’t perform at the
same level at which they once did. The words ‘“‘hanging on”’ and “‘fool-
ing themselves’’ describe these washouts that should retire. But their
dilemma is the same as mine; it’s just not that simple to give up and
pack it in, Their dreams were attained, but they want them to last
forever.

Deep down in my heart I know that I will never become the great
baseball or basketball player that I strived to be, but I don’t think it’s
all that terrible when I ‘forget”’ and relive the dreams all over again.

Does this mean that all athletes should quit when they realize that
they don’t have chance to play professionally? I think not. ‘Being the
best one can be” has always been one of my favorite sayings, and it
really holds true for what an athlete can still accomplish.

So don’t be disappointed if your dreams won’t come true. Work hard,
hustle, and enjoy the sport to its fullest. And hey, being a ‘‘pretty
good” Division III player ain’t all that bad.

NOTES: Big round of applause for all of you who stayed and sup-
ported the football team at their tough loss to Randolph-Macon, Wilson
Field almost sounded like the Orange Bowl...Instant Replay Watch
The system just isn’t working (see last Sunday’s Chiefs-Raiders game
in which a communication problem led to a L.A. touchdown that was
ruled no good by the replay ref). Either revise it or chuck it, because
this way is worse than before... Some baseball predictions: Angels
over the Red Sox in six; Mets over the Astros in seven; Angels win the
Series in seven... More picks to leave you laughing —MVP award

* auld go to Mike Schmidt in the NL and Don Mattingly in the AL;
se Scott (NL) and Roger Clemens (AL) should be awarded the Cy’

 

 

 

Write for the Phi —

lf you are interested there will be a
meeting tonight at 7:30 in room 200

of the University Center

 

 
 

 

 

INTENTIONAL SECOND EXPOSURE

Xe

eeonaaeat

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 9, 1986

 

Art exhibit displayed at library

 

By VALERIE PIERSON
Staff Reporter

 

An art exhibit titled ‘‘Cheek and
the Arts’’ will be on display in the
lower lobby of the Washington and
Lee University Library through Nov.
‘.

The prestigious collection traces
the career of Leslie Cheek Jr., who
planned and constructed W&L’s
Skylark Farm retreat.

Consisting primarily of water-
colors, pencil sketches, architectural
plans and stage designs, the exhibit
contains not only works from Cheek’s
undergraduate years at Harvard
University in Cambridge, Mass., but
also those from his 20-year director-
ship of the Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts in Richmond. The chronological
display of his works shows the
maturation of his dramatic style of
museum installation.

Born in Nashville, Tenn., Cheek
demonstrated artistic talent at an
early age. He traveled widely and
developed a keen visual sense that
would prove valuable in later years.
Hoping to become an engineer,’
Cheek enrolled at Harvard in 1927,
but he soon was drawn to the fine
arts. After graduating from Har-
vard, he earned a degree from the
Yale University School of Architec-

Point cards now valid in W&L Co-op

By STACY MORRISON
Staff Reporter

 

Now, even the cheeseburger, fries
and Coke that you buy in the Co-op
can be charged home to Mom and
Dad. ;

Users of the point card system now
can use their cards in the Co-op as
well as in Evans Dining Hall and the
General Headquarters, according to
Director of Food Services Gerald J.
Darrell. The point card, which can be
purchased or charged home at the
food service office in the University
Center,: contains 100 points that
cashiers mark off for the value of
food purchased.

Darrell said that he decided to of-
fer the point system in the Co-op due
to numerous suggestions from the
students.

Sophomore Mike Washington said
he thinks the point card is useful
because: it is more convenient than
cash. :

Darrell decided six years ago that
the school needed a meal plan for
those who ate fewer than 12 meals a
week af the dining hall. He then
started the point card system, fash-
ioned after similar meal plans in use
at 7 universities. The point card

   

tanning bed sessions.

Sculptured Solar Nails

OO ROM ROR MM

Www wwe

]

§ sessions withad ......
10 sessions withad ............
20 sessions withad .....

Solar Nails withad.....

Make your next party an

event to remember
4 MM

_ ® Have A Fireworks Display!
MM

“ <x Pyro-Technique, Virginia’s largest fireworks display company
can provide spectacular fireworks shows in any price range.
For information call Bruce Buskey after 5:00 p.m. at 463-4519.

Ea at xO OO Ct

ture, in New Haven, Conn.

He completed his education in 1935
but found himself in a somewhat un-
fortunate situation: it was the midst
of the Depression, and he was unable
to find a job with an architectural
firm.

So he started teaching architec-
tural history at the College of
William and Mary. During this time,
he was responsible for the organiza-
tion of one of the first fine arts
departments in the South, After
World War II, Cheek began his ste-
wardship at the Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts, which became one of the
region’s foremost art museums.

Under his leadership, museum mem-
bership steadily increased on a state-
wide level, and the collection was ex-
panded to include works by Renoir,
Poussin, Calder and Picasso.

In addition to its 31 watercolors and
pencil sketches, the exhibit also in-
cludes a 12-minute slide show that
provides an insightful overview of
the multi-talented Cheek. His wife,
Mary Tyler Freeman Cheek, is the
daughter of Pulitzer prize-winning
biographer Douglas Southall Free-
man. She was scheduled to be a guest
of the university during the dedica-
tion of the Morris House on Tuesday.

system is ideal, he said, because
students pay only for what they eat.

Also for the first time this year,
point cards were made available to
faculty members. Darrell said that
approximately 12 faculty members
have purchased the point cards.

Darrell started the point card
system in GHQ two years ago, due to
student demand. Point cards are
honored in GHQ for most items ex-
cept beer and cigarettes.

Darrell said there are many basic
advantages of the point card system.
If a student eats fewer than 12 meals
a week in the dining hall, it is ‘‘the
most economical plan’’ — it’s less ex-
pensive than paying cash for each
meal bought, and it can be used for
more than one person at each meal.

The point card is also valid for the
big theme meals the ‘ning hall of-
fers throughout the year, such as Oct-
oberfest, Thanksgiving Feast and
Christmas Smorgasbord. These
theme meals, as well as all daily
meals, are purchased at reduced
prices for users of the point card.
“For example: the Christmas Smor-
gasbord costs $7.50 cash but is only 7
points or $5.60,”’ according to an in-
formation bulletin from the Food Ser-
vices Department.

Another benefit of the point card is

- Merle Norman

College Square Shopping Center
463-1782

“October Specials’’

Bring this ad in and receive discount prices on Wolfe System

Lesveeecees seine”

.. $45.00

WHA HK

 

30 N. Main Street

703-463-3020

 

aD |
nium t 0 ta : ar i =
WILLSON- Lo

Lexington, Virginia 24450 WALK ER y

Restaurant

Enjoy our continuing 1986
Wednesday dinner,

Prime and Wine Special

8 oz. prime beef rib and glass of house white or red wine. House
salad, fresh vegetable, potato or rice included.

2 dinners for $19.86

visio

a |

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

‘

ye
4

\ So
y

\
=
a

"ENTRANCE - 10: ra GREAT ZO)

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

A painting from the Cheek exhibit.

 

 

oe 8 88 8 8 8 bt 8s
“nH uae & & HH HM
Pe
. W&L FOOD SERVICE -
Card No. 06.2... jctesctaeshicncaaatasilicsauneahadiinets w
Purchase Date .......... Name
Ya Ya Va VY V2 VY Ya V2 VY V2
= <
e445 4 4 $4444 4%
. *s 2

 

 

A W&L Food Service Point Card

me
a discount on daily specials at GHQ
and ‘‘point specials” that are offered
around the campus.

Point cards can be purchased at
Evans Dining Hall for $90 for $100
worth of points. So far this year, says
Darrell, 483 point cards have been
purchased.

One disadvantage of the point
system is the great deal of manual

work it creates for cashiers and
checkers. Points used anywhere
other than the dining hall must be
carefully recorded for food service
records.

The food services department will
be requesting an extended budget so
that next year it may computerize
the point card system and reduce
manual work.

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

 

London Leather
Boot Shoppe Ltd.

Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center near D.M.V.

One day Service on all work—
and all leather work!
Excellent Shoe Repair!

Stop by and open a charge account for all your
grocery needs. We will be glad to send your bill
home. We carry a complete line of fresh meats and
produce with a full line of name brand and generic
grocery items. Also, we have added a new deli line of

    

 

1678. Mi ain SM.

Worth

 

Continued from Page 1

sions’ of an accused student and not
being able to report the confession.
He said that a student who hears an
confession and is sworn not to reveal
the facts is put in an uncomfortable
and undesirable position.

Caruthers questioned if a salaried
employee of the university should
take part in the administration of the
Honor System, which is mostly stu-
dent-run. Dr. Worth said the group
would not attempt to interfere with
the EC’s jurisdiction or role in the
Honor System.

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current
undergraduate senior class for
selection to Who’s Who Among
Students in American Colleges
and Universities may do so by
submitting the name and qualifi-
cations of that student to the Of-
fice of the Dean of Students in

The EC tabled the suggestion tg
gather student opinion and further
discuss the issues. The committeg
will vote on the group at its next Mo
day meeting.

In other EC action:
The EC welcomed David Nave, the
new first-year Law representative,
Nave is a 1986 graduate of Washing
ton and Lee and is from Oak Ridge,
Tenn.

A comittee has been formed to
review several Student Conduct
Committee rules. The committee is
composed of Andrew Caruthers, the
senior representative, Brandt Wood, @
the junior representative, SCC chair-
man Mike McAllister and two other
members of the SCC.

Payne Hall 6 by October 15, 1986.

Criteria for selection to Who’s
Who include (1) scholarship, (2)
participation and leadership in
academic and extracurricular ac-
tivities, (3) citizenship and ser-
vice to Washington and Lee, and
(4) potential for future achieve-
ment.

 

Petitions for freshman offices
(Executive Committee represen-
tative, president, vice president
and University Council) are due in
the EC Room Oct. 13, 1986 at 6:45
p.m. Petitions may be obtained in
Carol Caulkins office in the
University Center. These will be
the only Petitions accepted.

MEETINGS

Squash Club—Organizational
Meeting: Thursday, October 9,
7:00 Room 113 in Student Center.
No experience necessary. W&L is
a member of the United States
Squash Racquets Association.

Outing Club will hold a meeting
Friday at 7:00 p.m. in front of
GHQ, and its first day trip to
House Mountain Sunday at 1:00
p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Call 463-6694
-Rob or Jenny.

“The Law School Experience”’
will be the subject of a panel
‘discussion led by four current
Washington and Lee Law Scheol
students, three of whom were
undergraduates; Tom Mack ’86,
Powell Starks ’83 and Dan Fetter-
man ’82, The panel is completed
by Lori Ciarrocca ’88L. All
undergraduates interested in the
study of law are urged to attend on
Tuesday, October 14 at 7:00 p.m.
in Room 114 of the University
Center.

 

Foreign Study and _Inter-
collegiate Exchange Programs
Information Session. (Sponsored
by Foreign Study Committee. Call
Prof. Jim Williams for informa-
tion). Room 114, Tuesday, Octo-
ber 21,7 p.m. University Center.

SERVICES

Need help with your writing?
The Writing Center will re-open
next week. Senior writing tutors
will be in Payne 2-B on Tuesday
and Thursday evenings from 7:00
p.m. to 10:00 p.m.

 

GENERAL NOTES

Resume Writing Workshop in
room 109 of University Center at
3:00 p.m., Tuesday, Oct. 14.

FILMS

The Russian Film _ Series
presents ‘‘DERSU UZALA”’
(USSR/JAPAN, dir. Akira
Kurosawa, 1975, color, 70 mm, 137
min.) on Friday, October 10, 7:30
p.m., 203 Reid Hall. This work in-
augurated the latest career-phase
of perhaps the greatest living film
director—a phase that also yield-
ed KAGEMUSHA and RAN. This
work represents Kurasawa’s
closest approach to a truly univer-
sal, culturally unbound film-form,
affirmed by winning both the
USSR’s Moscow Film Festival |
Grand Prize and the USA’s Oscar
for Best Foreign Film in 1975. To '
date, this is the only Soviet col-
laboration with foreign film- |
makers. The result is a
cinemascopic saga of conflict bet-
ween history and modernity, man
and nature, organization and in-
dividuality.

MISCELLANEOUS |

Make up date for student IDf
photos will be Oct. 22nd, 1 - 4 p.m,
in Room 128 of the University
Center. This is your last chance!

Unclaimed pictures taken by
roving photographers at 1985’s
Fancy Dress can be claimed in
Carol Calkin’s office (RM 104 of
the University Center.

Applications to take the U.S
Foreign Service Examination can
be picked up at Professor Covins’s
Office (Commerce 308). Deadline
for receiving the application is
Oct. 24th. Exam will be held on
Dec. 6, 1896.

It has come to the attention of
some of us that students are using
the Chessie Trail (the trail which
goes along the edge of the Maury
River) for motor use. This trail is
for those who like to jog or walk.
Use of motor vehicles is pro-
hibited and violators will be fined.
Please protect the trail.

 

463-3106

meats we carry for you in our butcher shop.

Prego Spaghetti Sauce, N.Y. Strips, Etc.

Serving the W&L community for over 30 years.

 

This week’s specials:
Coke, Pepsi, Spaghetti,

 
wll.

Ee a ee re

et all ag

— ee EE lf

SPORTS
Football falls to R-MC in final seconds

 

 

af ES ot ie ee ee ae,

A
3k

 

oe

et
aoe? 4
By Mathew Ho

 

Washington and Lee QB John Thornton (7) holds up the ball after scoring in
Saturday’s game against R-MC Thornton’s touchdown, which came early in the
fourth quarter, put the Generals up 14-7.

Soccer wins two;
record above .500

By GARY McCULLOUGH
Staff Reporter

With two wins last week, 1-0 over
Roanoke yesterday and 3-1 over
Greensboro on Saturday, the
Washington and Lee men’s soccer
team vaulted over the .500 mark to
put their record at 4-3.

Yesterday afternoon, the soccer
Generals went down to Roanoke Col-
lege and won a close 1-0 contest.

The defense for both teams was ob-
viously very impressive, and no one
scored until junior John Coll found
the back of the net with the winning
goal, late in the second half.

“It was a pretty evenly played
match,” said head coach Rolf Pira-
nian.

The Generals continued their win-
ning ways this past Saturday by
defeating Greensboro College by the
score of 3-1.

“Defensively, we had some pro-
blems,”’ said Piranian. Piranian was
slightly disappointed that the team’s
defense wasn’t as sharp as it was in

X-country splits again but looks ‘encouraging’

 

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

It was an encouraging weekend
trip to Norfolk for the Washington
and Lee men’s cross-country team.
Coming away with a split, the
Generals (31 points) posted a 36 point
blow-out of host Norfolk State (67
points) and narrowly missed upset-
ting Roanoke (29 points), who are
the defending Old Dominion Athletic
Conference champions.

The women’s team was not as for-
tunate and ended up losing to Norfolk
State, 18-37.

Junior Ash Andrews was the first
General across the line, finishing in
third place with a time of 27 minutes

the game against Sewanee. “It was a
test of character as I saw it,’ said
Piranian. ‘The flow of the game
went against us when they tied it up,
but we kept pressing toward the
end.”

The score wasn’t indicative of
these problems as Greensboro was
only allowed one goal. The main dif-
ficulties were between the backfield
and the midfield, but the defense,
especially junior goalie Chris Gareis,
responded well when it had to.

“We seem to have established our
defense pretty well,” said Gareis. He
also commented that the team
members are starting to get more of
a feel of where everyone is on the
field and a steadily improving team
coordination is a result of this.

While W&L was struggling defen-
sively, goals by senior Peter Von Son
and freshmen Scott Levitt and Rick
Silva provided the scoring punch.

Gareis, as well as Piranian, was
very optimistic when discussing the
General’s chance at a successful
season.

and 37 seconds over the 5.2 mile
course. Following close behind were
senior Scott Rippeon (fourth-place,
27:52) and senior captain Ed Myers
(fifth-place, 28:02). Junior Richard
Moore and senior Doug Turrel, ninth
and tenth-place respectively, closed
out the scoring for W&L.

What made the meet so encourag-
ing was the impressive showing the
Generals turned in against the
Maroons, who return all their run-
ners from last year’s championship
squad.

“The ODAC may be a lot tighter
this year,’ said head coach Dick
Miller. ‘‘We made [the race] close
and may have won it if we ran just a
little better.”’

The Generals were helped out
largely by a gutsy race from Moore,

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 9, 1986

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee football
team only trailed for one second in
last Saturday’s Old Dominion
Athletic Conference contest against
Randolph-Macon. Unfortunately, it
was the final second of the game.

The Yellow Jackets scored with
one tick left on the clock capping a 58-
yard drive on a tipped 21-yard
touchdown pass which gave Ran-
dolph-Macon a hard fought 21-20 vic-
tory. It was the Generals’ third
defeat in as many games.

The Generals scored the only
points of the first half on a 17 yard
pass from senior quarterback Jon
Thornton to tight end Garfield
Prebor. Kicker Bill Crabill added the
extra point with 3:55 remaining in the
first half.

The Yellow Jackets tied the game
on a 4i yard interception return by
linebacker Todd Rogers. Thornton
“probably couldn’t see him coming,”
said head coach Gary Fallon, poin-
ting out that Rogers was moving out
from his middie linebacker position
as the ball was released. The conver-
sion attempt by Macon kicker Lance
Hering tied the score at seven with
four minutes left in the third quarter.

WA&L started the scoring explosion
in the fourth quarter with a one yard
run by Thornton, capping a drive
which could be the first half of the
senior quarterback’s career high-
light film. Thornton completed key
throws to seniors Randy Brown and
Bobby Wilson in a drive which gave
the Generals a seven point lead with
11:12 remaining.

Starting Yellow Jacket quarter-
back Rick Kline left the game late in
the third quarter with six comple-

 

Junior Goalie Chris Gaeris deflects a shot against
Greensboro on Saturday, Gaeris also shut out Roanoke yester-

 

By Mathew Horridge/The F

day afternoon as the Generals won both their games last week.

who was sick before the race even
started.

“Apparently,” said Rippeon, “he
[Moore] was ill, but he still ran a
great race. Ash Andrews also ran
very well.”

W&L is “looking better as a team,”
said Rippeon, as the all-important
depth was much more evident at
Saturday’s meet. Only 1:45 se-
parated the General’s top five run-
ners. The displacers, junior Greg
Casker and freshman Joe Geitner
are now only a little more than 3
minutes off the pace.

‘“‘We ran well and I was very en-
couraged,” said Rippeon. ‘‘It was a
flat course and we are more used to
running hills. It should be very close
at the ODAC championship and I
think we have a chance to beat
Roanoke,”’ he said.

Senior Steve Pockrass, who was
running at the sixth or seventh spot,
has been sidelined with an ankle in-
jury and will hopefully be back in
about two weeks.

The W&L women’s team, in just its
second year of operation, was led by
the fourth-place finish of freshman
Catherine Baillo (23:37) and the
sixth-place effort of Patsy Sciutto
(24:11) over the 3.1 mile course.

Miller, also the women’s coach,
was pleased with what he saw. ‘I
was impressed with the women. They
are much improved over last year,”’
he said.

This Saturday the men’s team will
run against Catholic University in
Washington, D.C., and the women
will participate in the State Cham-
pionships at Liberty University.

Water polo still hasn’t solved the Spiders

 

By MATHEW HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The water polo team seems to have
developed a pattern of play in tour-
naments this fall; blow out two or
three teams and then drop a close
game to finish second.

At the first round of the Southern
League Tournament this weekend,

the Generals ‘idn’t come in second
place — but: .sn’t exactly a tour-
nament.

The tournament is played in three
rounds with the third of the three be-
ing the championship round. The
results of the first two rounds are us-

ed to determine the seedings for the
championship round.

On Friday and Saturday, the
Generals romped against Mary
Washington (winning 21-2), the

University of North Carolina—
Wilmington (14-5) and Lynchburg
(18-4). Only the host team, George
Washington University, managed to
keep its losing score close, 11-6.

And, for the second week, the
Spiders of the University of Rich-
mond proved to be the spoilers for an
otherwise perfect weekend.

Richmond, ranked 19th in the na-
tion, beat the Generals 10-7 in the last
game of the weekend.

“We came out flat in the first
quarter,’ sophomore Matt Brady
said. Richmond established a 7-1 lead

in the first quarter.

“Richmond built up a 7-1 lead and
coasted home with the win,’ head
coach Page Remillard said.

“On the whole we did not play that
well, but I was pleased with a few of
our players,’ he added. Remillard
said freshman Adam Morgan and
sophomore Tom Rawls had good
games against Richmond.

Co-captain Simon Perez said he
was unsure why the team has not
been able to beat the Spiders.

“We have good practices all week”’
before Richmond games, Perez said.
“‘We haven’t been able to put a good
game together.”’

The Generals will face Richmond
again Homecoming weekend at Cy

Twombly Pool in the second round of
the Southern League Tournament.

This weekend the Generals travel
to Brown University to participate in
the Northeast Varsity Invitational.
The Generals will face Army, Buck-
nell, Fordham and MIT.

Perez predicted victories over Ar-
my and MIT. W&L have never played
Fordham but Perez said game films
showed Fordham to be sloppy.

Bucknell may prove to be the
Generals’ toughest opponent. Perez
said Bucknell is the only team on the
East Coast that a Remillard team
has not tied or beaten.

“Bucknell is missing some key
players,’’ Perez said. ‘“‘We plan on
going 4-0 this weekend.”’

tions for only 38 yards, and sopho-
more Paul Dillard came in to put ona
show. In less than 25 minutes, Dillard
completed 7 of 12 passes for 145 yards
and two touchdowns and left the
crowd of 2700 wondering why Kline
had even been on the field.

The Generals responded with the
second half of Thornton’s highlight
film. Once again, Thornton ‘‘thread-
ed the needle,” according to Fallon,
leading the Generals to a first-and-
goal situation on the Randolph-
Macon one-yard line. On third down,
running back Kevin Weaver scored
to give W&L the lead and set a school
record for points scored in a career
with 158. With only thirty-two
seconds left in the game, no one
realized that the block of Crabill’s
conversion attempt would end up be-
ing the deciding factor, except
maybe Fallon, who told one of his
players that ‘‘It’s not over yet!”

The box score of the game reported
that the winning touchdown came on
a 2i-yard pass from Hering to
Dillard, but even the Yellow Jackets
would have to admit that the play
didn’t even resemble the diagram in
Coach Blackburn’s playbook.

At least three players touched the
ball after it left Dillard’s hands, and
two of them were wearing blue
shirts. But Hering came down with
the ball, and the Yellow Jacket bench
poured onto the field. After order was
restored, Hering kicked the extra
point to complete the scoring.

After the touchdown play, the
Yellow Jackets had been assessed
two 15 yard unsportsmanlike conduct
penalties on the TD, so Hering had to
kick off from his own ten. Chris Cof-
fland was tackled at midfield, and
the Generals fell by one point for the
second week in a row.

By Mike Shady

Shades on sports

Assistant Sports Editor

 

The loss left the Generals looking
ahead to Maryville, the only other
winless team in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. At first glance,
the Generals would appear to have
an edge, Centre crushed Maryville,
36-14, while W&L lost to Centre by on-
ly a point. But Fallon is reluctant to
draw such comparisions, saying that
the Generals will try to play ‘‘with
the same intensity and the same en-
thusiasm and the same eagerness to
win that we had (last) Saturday.”

This will be Maryville’s home
opener, and Fallon expects the vic-
tory to go to ‘‘the team that wants it
the most.”’

Fallon said the Scots feature a
passing offense with ‘‘super
receivers,’ two talented quarter-
backs, and capable runners. Defen--
sively, Maryville’s main asset is
quickness, said Fallon, although the
Scots do have some size. ‘‘The most
frightening thing about it is that
they’re going to be hungry,...but I
have to think that we’re going to be
just as hungry.”’

HASHMARKS—Fallon was glad to
see Weaver recognized as_ the
Generals’ all-time scoring leader,
but he is certain that the senior run-
ning back ‘‘would have traded in any
kind of individual honors” for a vic-
tory on Saturday. ‘‘That’s the kind of-
individual that Kevin is,” said:
Fallon... Kickoff is set for 1:30 Satur-
day afternoon at Honaker Stadium in
Maryville, Tennessee. W&L leads the
series, 5-4, and won last year, 42-17... :
Head Coach Larry Stephens, a 1972
graduate of Maryville College, is in
his first year with the Scots... Mary-
ville lost last week to Cumberland
College, 34-17...

 

 

we

S

 

 

 

 

It’s only

a dream

‘the pie in the sky turned out to be miles too high...”’

—Roger Waters

I was sitting around the other day (avoiding work as usual) just
listening to some tunes, when those words caught my attention. They
brought back to mind visions of my younger days on the playing field
and, suddenly, I realized that this simple phrase summed up my entire
athletic life.

Almost every athlete dreams of becoming a professional or olympic
star at some time or other during his youth. I remember spending
hours on end down in my basement, imagining that I had just thrown a
perfect game in the deciding game of the World Series, or had rushed
for three hundred yards as my team won the Super Bowl. When I was
ten years old, I wouldn’t believe that I would never make it profes-
sionally in one of the many sports I participated in. My goal was to ob-
tain the ultimate pinnacle in athletic competition — superstardom at
the professional level — and then live happily ever after.

I’m sure that many people have felt the same way that I did (come
on, admit it) and also have felt the same foolishness that I feel now
when recalling those past experiences. Hell, I still go up to the gym to-
day and pretend that I’m Larry Bird or Charles Barkley and play out
my fantasies.

Well, get to the point, Shades. What’s all this garbage you’ve been
feeding us really mean anyway?

Look at the quote. ‘‘The pie in the sky’’ is the athlete’s dream.
“Turned out to be miles too high’’ is the realization that the dream will
never come true.

As I got older, the competition got better. I no longer was the star.
Accepting this fact can be difficult, probably the toughest thing I have
ever had to face. Nothing hurts your pride more then someone telling
you that you’re not good enough, especially when that someone is
yourself.

Take a glance at today’s sports figures and it becomes obvious that
even the few who make it big are still posed the identical problem. Do
the names Steve Carlton, Phil Neikro, Pete Rose and Reggie Jackson
ring a bell? These guys refuse to believe that they can’t perform at the
same level at which they once did. The words ‘“‘hanging on’’ and ‘“‘fool-
ing themselves” describe these washouts that should retire. But their
dilemma is the same as mine; it’s just not that simple to give up and
pack it in, Their dreams were attained, but they want them to last
forever.

Deep down in my heart I know that I will never become the great
baseball or basketball player that I strived to be, but I don’t think it’s
all that terrible when I ‘forget’ and relive the dreams all over again.

Does this mean that all athletes should quit when they realize that
they don’t have chance to play professionally? I think not. “Being the
best one can be’’ has always been one of my favorite sayings, and it
really holds true for what an athlete can still accomplish.

So don’t be disappointed if your dreams won’t come true. Work hard,
hustle, and enjoy the sport to its fullest. And hey, being a ‘“‘pretty
good” Division III player ain’t all that bad.

NOTES: Big round of applause for all of you who stayed and sup-
ported the football team at their tough loss to Randolph-Macon. Wilson
Field almost sounded like the Orange Bowl...Instant Replay Watch
The system just isn’t working (see last Sunday’s Chiefs-Raiders game
in which a communication problem led to a L.A. touchdown that was
ruled no good by the replay ref). Either revise it or chuck it, because
this way is worse than before... Some baseball predictions: Angels
over the Red Sox in six; Mets over the Astros in seven; Angels win the
Series in seven... More picks to leave you laughing —MVP award

~ auld go to Mike Schmidt in the NL and Don Mattingly in the AL;
Mike Scott (NL) and Roger Clemens (AL) should be awarded the Cy’
Young... y

 

 

 

Write for the Phi

If you are interested there will be a
meeting tonight at 7:30 in room 200

of the University Center

 

 
-BACK PAGE

 

Carver: spare, stunning art

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Raymond Carver writes about the
kind of people most of us ignore. His
characters (and frequently his nar-
rators) are out of work, out of luck,
out of booze, or some variation of the
three. They speak a language that is
incapable of expressing what they
are going through. And that, more
often than not, is the point. Out of
these elements, Raymond Carver
creates stunning, powerful art.

Carver will give a reading next
Wednesday at 8 p.m. at Lee Chapel
and the event is cause for celebra-
tion. His sparse, unforgettable short
stories have earned him a huge,
dedicated following and have in-
fluenced a generation of young
writers. Tom Jenks, in the October
1986 issue of Vanity Fair, wrote that
Carver has been instrumental in pro-
mpting what some have called ‘‘a
short story renaissance in this coun-
try.”

Because Carver is also a poet,
much of his prose takes on the
cadence of poetry. He is at his best
when he writes in the first person,
allowing his hapless narrator to pain-
fully describe, in a language so real it
is startling, what exactly went
wrong. (In Carver’s stories, some-
thing always seems to go wrong.)

His imagery is memorable because
he takes elements from the everyday
and makes them special, horrifying,
jolting. In ‘Why Don’t You Dance?”’
a man whose wife has left takes all
the furniture from his bedroom and
sets it up, to scale, in his front yard.
In ‘‘Preservation,’’ a man loses his
job, ‘‘freezes himself’’ on the couch,
and finally ‘‘thaws out’’ with a hor-
rific image of spilled water surroun-
ding his bare feet. And in ‘“Cathe-
dral,’’ a young man experiences an
unexplainable religious moment
when his wife’s blind friend
“teaches” him to draw the cathe-

drals which are being featured on one
of those dull, late night television
documentaries.

Carver knows this world well. In an
essay called ‘‘Fires,’’ he reveals that
he has been a janitor, delivery man,
sawmill operator, service station at-
tendant, and an alcoholic. Carver is a
relentless prose stylist, but his
stories also go straight to the heart of
the experiences. If Carver ever needs
to defend his spare, stylized tragi-
dramas, his best response, it seems
to me, would be, ‘‘Hey I’ve BEEN
there.”’

He was born in Oregon in 1939 and
attended Chico State University.
There, he met novelist John Gardner,
who encouraged Carver to pursue his
immense talent. He was married and
had a child at a very early age and he
consequently had to hold a series of
odd jobs to make his way. During this
period, he managed to squeeze in
time to write. This is why he became
a short story writer, he writes in
“Fries :" there was simply no time to
devote toa novel.

He began to appear in magazines
like Esquiree and Harper's in 1971.
His first collection of short stores,
“Will You Please Be Quiet,
Please?,’’ was published in 1976 and
earned Carver the National Book
Award.

Since then, he has published three
more short story collections:
“Furious Seasons’’ (1977),’ ‘What
We Talk About When We Talk About
Love”’ (1981) and ‘‘Cathedral’’
(1983). In addition, he has published
five volumes of verse, a screen play
and a drama. His most recent pub-
lished work was ‘‘Intamacies,” a
short story that appeared in Esquire
last summer.

Carver was a Guggenheim Fellow
in 1979, has been twice awarded
grants by the National Endowment
for the Arts, and has taught at the
University of lowa, the University of
Texas, and the University of Califor-
nia.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Raymond Carver will give a reading this Wednesday.

Other awards that Carver has
received include the Mildred and
Harold Strauss Living Award (1983)
and the Carlos Fuentes Award

The same old sick routine?

 

By ALANE JAMES
Movie Critic

 

Practically everybody has faked
he old “‘sick routine”’ to avoid going
oschool. Ferris Bueller, on the other
iand, takes it one step further, rais-
ng it toanart form.

While funny at times, ‘Ferris
3ueller’s Day Off’’ is, for the most
vart, a rather poor attempt at com-
‘dy. Ferris Bueller (Mathew Broder-
ck) is the epitome of the over-con-
ident jerk who has never gotten
aught — at anything. Liked by
Imost all the different clique at
chool, he is the apple of his mother’s
ye. You know, the boy next door. So
vhen he feigns illness to skip school,
he only two people who catch on to
im are his sister, Jean, and the
vean of Students, Ed Rooney.

Thus we have the premise for this
e-working of the Tom Sawyer myth.
‘ecause, in the end that’s exactly
‘hat Ferris Bueller is: Tom Sawyer

 

 

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver,
China and Crystal

Wm. L. Hess, Jr.
Owner

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

.703) 463-2833

 

 

 

for the MTV generation. Instead of
going fishing with Huck, however,
Ferris commandeers a 1961 Ferrari
and embarks on an unrealistic quest
for a good time.

The journey starts off innocently
enough — he manages to spring his
girlfriend from class by posing as her
father. From this point, the movie
progresses from the unlikely to the
ridiculous. For instance, in a town
the size of Chicago, are we really to
believe that Ferris runs into his
father three times during the course
of the afternoon without getting
caught? And exactly how did he
manage to worm his way onto a par-
ade float?

As in other John Hughes’ teen epics
(“Breakfast Club’ and ‘‘Sixteen
Candles’), adults are reduced to
bumbling idiots. Dean of Students Ed
Rooney is no exception, for it is he
whom Ferris must outwit. Rooney’s
obsession with catching Ferris drives
him to the point of attempting to
break and enter the Bueller house-
hold, where he provokes the wrath of

  

Prints from

The Jackson Barber Shop

13 W. Nelson St.
(The Valley's Oldest)

covered by PHI

photographers
are available.

 

Committed to global mission and con-
cerned about hunger round the world,
the LEXINGTON PRESBYTERIAN
CHURCH invites you to share in our
“worldwide communion” service on
Oct. 5, at 11 a.m. During the service,
we will collect a quarterly offering
(part of a year-round 2 per meal pro-
gram) for hungry people in Africa!

 

 

Join us! Take and share!

s saceeall

 

the family dog. Granted, he takes
things to the extreme; but c’mon,
he’s just trying to do his job. The au-
dience never hates him enough to
really enjoy all of the bad things that
happen to him.

The film’s saving grace is the
subplot involving Ferris’ friend,
Cameron Frye. Only Cameron grows
during the course of the movie. At the
outset, he is an insecure rich kid
dominated by an overbearing, ma-
terialistic father (a typical ‘“Hughe-
sian” effect). By the end, however,
Cameron has metamorphosed into a
secure individual ready to deal with
his father. This one aspect of the film
is treated with affection and grace
and seems completely out of place in
this shallow romp.

In the final analysis, ‘Ferris
Bueller’s Day Off” tries too hard to
be funny. The film seems prepared to
take off at any moment, but instead
flounders around in mediocrity. Ser-
iously — I can get this kind of enter-
tainment on ‘‘Family Ties’,”’ and it’s
free.

 
   

ALL events

Pe
Vwweweeeeewe eee ewe eee eee

 

AOS.

FOR SALE
1979 Small Dodge Truck.
Excellent condition, 5 spd.,
463-2422 or

AM/FM cassette.
885-4513.

 

 

(1981). Lastly, he was a first place
winner in 1983 in William Abraham’s
short story annual, ‘Prize Stories:
The O. Henry Awards.”

 

 

 

ONCAMPUS

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9

Noon- 4 p.m. Morris House Community Open House. W&L Front Cam-
pus. Public invited.

2-4:30 p.m. Interviewing Techniques: Mock Interviews. Room 103,
University Library.

5 p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “Railroad Preps in the Real World.”’
William D. Deep. Room 401. Howe Hall. (Tea at 4:30 in Room 402.)

7:30 p.m. JOURNALISM FILM: “Manahatta”’ and ‘The Plow that
Broke the Plains.”’ Room 203, Reid Hall.
8:00 p.m. SHANNON-CLARK LECTURE: ‘“‘Structuralism, Post-
structuralism, and Cultural Criticism: The Role of Contemporary
Literary Theory.’ Jonathan Culler, Cornell University. Northen

Deadline.
Campus. Public Invited.

Public invited.

Center.

Room 114, University Center.

Hall.

 

Auditorium, University Library. Public Invited.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10
Challenge ’87 (Liberal Arts Career Fair in Lynchburg) Registration

10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Morris House Community Open House. W&L Front

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11
All Day Washington and Lee Fraternity Symposium.
10 a.m. -4 p.m. Morris House Community House. W&L Front Campus,

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13
Yom Kippur.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14
Noon General-Lee Speaking Sports Luncheon. Evans Dinning Hall.
3 p.m. RESUME WRITING WORKSHOP. Room 109, University

7 p.m. Law Student Panel Discussion: ‘“The Law School Experience.”’

7p.m. W&L Newcomers Dessert and Coffee. Alumni House.
7 & 9 p.m. JOURNALISM FILM: Tol’able David.’’ Room 203, Reid

7:30 - 9:30 p.m. COMPUTER CLASS: Introduction to the Prime Com-
puter. Room 322, Commerce School.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Southern Comfort serenades a parent in the audience.

 

Eight new members join
popular Southern Comfort

 

Staff Report

 

Southern Comfort, Washington and
Lee University’s popular singing
group, added eight new members
after holding auditions September 28.
They join nine returning members to
form this year’s edition.

The new members are freshman
Benjamin Todd Belveal of Garden Ci-
ty, N.Y., sophomore David S. Grove
of Herndon, Va., Thomas B. Brickel

 

Lexington Shoe Hospital
Downtown Lexington |

(Expert Shoe Repair)

Open 8:00-6:00 Mon.-Saft.

I need your shoes.
Repair is my business.

3 West Nelson Street,

 

Lexington, Va

of Brenwood, N.Y., Michael G. Her-
rin of Valdosta, Ga., Christopher L.
Callas of Point Marion, Pa., S. David
Burns of Shepherdstown, W. Va., and
Fray McCormick of Halifax, Va.;
and second year law student Murray
O. Stanton cf Rochester, N.Y.

Performing everything from
barbershop to Beach Boys and lots in
between) Southern Comfort will ap-
pear in Lee Chapel on Saturday, Oct.
18, at 10:30 a.m. in a_ special

Homecoming Concert. Joining them
will be the University Chorus and
Glee Club.

The three groups will also present
a Fall Choral Concert Tuesday, Oct.
8, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Both con-
certs are open to the public.

After fall performances at Salem
College and Southern: Seminary,
Southern Comfort will again be per-
forming nightly at the Greenbrier
Dec. 27-31.

See You Neighbors at the

VMI Keydet Bookstore

Lejeune Hall

for

Cliff's & Monarch Note Needs

Aliso available - Schaun’s Outlines
Mon.-Fri. 8:30-4:00

 

463-4921

 

 

 

 

MEN'S & WOMEN S HAIRSTYLING

MANICURES COSMETICS TANNING
( 4
agers Ine.
WHEN ON cy THE BEST Wit DO
Wednesdays Wet Cut Day
$7.00
(Reg. $8.00)
2 N MAIN SI
Le KING N VA 24450
isa & MasterCharge Accepted ee

 

 

 

 

23 N. Main St., Lexington, VA 24450

LEXINGTON SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing and Accessories
NEW STORE HOURS: Mon.-Sat. 10:00-5:30 p.m.

Sunday 1:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m.

 

 

(703) 463-5988

Our ‘‘Team’’ Handle All

 

Your Typing Needs
Karen Wallace JANET CUMMINGS Brenda Wilhelm
Sandi Hartless 463-2790 463-2721
(after 5 p.m.)

(1) IBM Electronic & Memory typewriters.
(2) Variety of large & small type.
(3) Know ‘Blue Book”’ form.
(4) Telephone Answering Service - 463-2790.
(Call anytime during the day and leave message, name &
number.) Calls returned promptly.
FAST — DEPENDABLE — REASONABLE RATES

 

 

 

 
