 

‘

 

 

 

   
   
   
   

 

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 4

Big horses
Budweiser horses
parade in Lexington

Page 3

 

General Public to play
at Homecoming

Page 6

 

 

Your weekend weather:

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Temperatures in the mid-80s;
chance of thunderstorms

 

OCTOBER 2, 1986

 

‘Students

injured in

accident

 

By SEAN BUGG
Editor

 

At least three Washington and Lee
students were injured this weekend
as a result of a Sunday evening
automobile accident, according to

_ Amblemare Police department re-

ports.
The students, junior Porter Davis,

.. sophomore Julia Kirk, senior Russell
_ Peck and junior Jay St. John, were

involved in the accident while return-

' ing to Lexington from a Charlot-
 tesville restaurant after attending
_ the Foxfield Races earlier that day.

The report said the driver, Peck,
lost control of the 1981 Honda on a

' sharp turn and hit a highway sign on

a median strip. The accident oc-
curred at 9:40 p.m. at the intersec-

' tion of Routes 250 and 240. The car

came to rest on the embankment on
the side of Route 240, the report said.

“It was a one-vehicle accident,”
said police.

Police said that Peck had been
drinking but his ability to drive had
not been impared.

Peck was charged with reckless

, driving, according to police.

Passengers Kirk, Davis and Peck
were injured, police said. The report
made no mention of St. John.

Kirk, Davis and Peck were taken to

_ the University of Virginia Medical

Center. Kirk and Davis were admit-
ted and later released. Peck was
treated and released.

All the passengers were wearing
seat belts, according to the police
report.

Kirk said there were four pas-
sengers in the car at the time of the

" accident. “I think all four occupants

were taken to the hospital to make

’ gure that everything was all right.”’

“None of us sustained very major

" injuries,” she said. “It looks like I

just have some bruises.”’ She said it

’ appears that her bruises were a

result of wearing a lap belt.
Kirk said that Davis stayed over-

night in the medical center, and that
’ she stayed for three nights.

Sd

TT

“TI would like to make this point
that Russ Peck was not drunk, and he
did not receive a DWI,” Kirk said.

Kirk said she thinks the cause of
the accident was ‘“‘wet roads.”’

She said ‘‘of course”’ her professors
were being cooperative as a result of
her situation.

Peck declined to be interviewed on
Wednesday evening.

Kirk said she had experienced car
accidents before. ‘I wouldn’t recom-
mend it,”’ she said.

[INSIDE]

Should there be sororities
at W&L? See Point/Coun-
terpoint, page 2.

The Wrath of Centel. See
Lexicon, page 4.

New music from Talking
Heads reviewed on the Back
Page.

 

 

 

Demand for court lights rises

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

 

If coach Gary Franke and Ex-
ecutive Committee Representative
Baltzer LeJeune could have it their
way, tennis on the Washington and
Lee campus would not have to end
when the sun sets.

At the last meeting, LeJeune sug-

"gested that lights be installed on the

tennis courts so play could continue
into the evening. ‘Even as a fresh-
man I remember being surprised
that W&L didn’t have lighted tennis

+ courts,” he said.

LeJeune said the idea has been
very well received by the students
and “there has been no adversity at
allsofar.”’

Tennis coach Gary Franke would
like to see the courts lit., ‘I think

  
   

a 6
By Perry Hay’

Former British Prime Minister Edward Heath speaks at Virginia
Military Institute, as part of the Distinguished Leadership Lecture
Series. Heath served as Prime Minister from 1970 to 1974, after 20

years in Parliament.

es /The Ring-tum Phi

 

By JASON LISI
Editor

 

The Executive Committee this
week announced its budget alloca-
tions for student organizations for the
1986-87 school year.

The committee showed how much
each group received out of the
$133,650 total student body alloca-
tions.

The Student Activities Board
received by far the most money, net-
ting $46,000 to use throughout the
year. ‘The purpose of the Student
Activities Board is to provide social,
cultural and recreational activities
aimed at the needs and interests of
the student body,’’ according to the
current Student Handbook.

Second in line for the top alloca-
tions is the Student Bar Association,
which received $22,000. SBA’s func-
tion is ‘‘to serve as liaison between
students and faculty on all matters
relating to activities and operations
of the School of Law,” says the hand-
book. The group also helps to fund the
various Law School publications and
bring speakers to the Law campus.

The Ring-tum Phi, the student
newspaper, and the Calyx, the year-
book, received respectively $18,000
and $15,250.

Two accounts, labeled Executive
Committee Expense and Executive
Committee Fund, received respec-
tively $4,500 and $1,500.

 

Organizations
get budgets

In other EC action:

eDarrin McCullough and David
Nave have qualified for a runoff in
the election of First Year Law
Representative to the EC, the com-
mittee reported. The two will face
each other in the runoff today.

eJunior representative Brad Root
said he is investigating the possibility
of a walkway throught the bushes
near the Omicron Delta Kappa circle
outside the Co-op.

Organization
budgets

Here is what the other clubs and
organizations received from the
Executive Committee:

*Contact: $9,000

eAriel: $2,200

Political Review: $2,200

Mock Convention: $2,200

ePublications Board Reserve:

$2,000

The Film Society : $1,400

Rugby Club: $1,000

*Fencing Team: $1,000

eJournal of Science: $1,000

International Club: $800

*Hockey Club: $700

*Rowing Club: $600

*Minority Students Association:

$600

¢Ski Club: $500

eIndependent Union: $500

¢Squash Club: $300

¢East Lex Lacrosse Club: $300

eWomen’s Forum: $100

 

 

 

Students paint rooms despite rules

 

ESS
By CHRISTIE CHAMPLIN
Staff Reporter

 

Although it is against university housing policy,
students are making changes in their school-
owned rooms.

Painting, building and the removal of furniture
are prohibited in any of the University Housing
facilities, including Graham-Lees, Gilliam, Baker
and Davis dormitories, the International House,
Chavis House, the Minority Student Association
House, Lee II and Woods Creek Apartments.

Students living in University Housing at W&L
pay a $100 room and security deposit which is
returned at the end of the year if the room passes a
final inspection by the Department of Buildings
and Grounds.

The return of the deposit can be forfeifted by
many violations. However, the largest percentage
of deductions is made for damage to walls which
requires patching and/or painting, replacing
discharged fire extinguishers or the cleaning of
stoves, refrigerators and other kitchen equipment
in the Woods Creek Apartments, said Rober
Mohler, the Director of University Housing.
Damages which necessitate patching and painting
include nail holes, dirt, writing and residue from
tape. Building lofts is also prohibited. University
housing is used in the summer for many summer
programs making it necessary for all of the
restrictions, Mohler said.

This year, students in Woods Creek Apartments
and some dormitories have built lofts and painted
rooms, violations of University rules. The reasons
for these actions include a need for more space

and a dislike for the color scheme.

Sophomore Amy Smith, a resident of Woods
Creek, has built a loft in her room because she
says that there was not enough room without one.
“The rooms are small and I wanted a double bed,”’
says Smith. Friends of hers who lived in Woods
Creek before graduating last year built lofts in
their rooms and did not have to forfeit any of their
$100 deposit.

One sophomore Woods Creek resident said she
thought repainting rooms does no harm to the
apartments. ‘‘We chose to improve the room,” she
said.

“T don’t think there is anything wrong with
painting as long as it is painted tastefully,” said
one of her roommates. They say they keep the
apartment in much better condition than last
year’s residents who left it with badly stained
floors and cracked countertops.

Painting or changing the color of a room is not
allowed because people’s tastes in colors vary so
much, said Mohler. The University does all of the
painting and picks “satisfactory colors which are
adequate for the students’ needs,”’ he said.

If a room is painted by a student, the room will
be repainted during the summer and the student
responsible will be billed. If damage occurs in a
double room the Honor System requires that the
guilty student claim the responsibility and settle
the account.

In Woods Creek Apartments students are re-
sponsible for their individual rooms and the group
is responsible for the common areas, such as the
kitchen and living room.

Many schools, for example, Washington Univer-
sity in St. Louis, Mo., allow their students to

there is a need to light the courts. If
we could just light courts one and
two, we could finish matches that
start or run late. It would also extend
practice time for players with
schedule problems and _ increase
recreational use,”’ he said.

Athletic Director Buck McHenry
said that the athletic department has
requested the lights in its budget for
the last four years but has been told
that the lights do not command a high
enough priority

McHenry added that, ‘Anytime
students exercise their rights in re-
questing things the powers that be
sometimes sit up and take notice.”’

McHenry and Coach Franke both
agree that the lights would be a
benefit to the recreational players
who cannot use the courts during the

tennis team’s practice hours. but

McHenry feels that the university
should light more than just the two
courts if they are going to light any at
all.

It was also suggested that pay
boxes with timers be installed on the
lights so that students who want to
use the courts after dark can insert
quarters and the lights would stay on
for a set period of time.

“I don’t think it would be too much
to ask for players to spend a couple of
quarters to play at night,’”’ Franke
said.

LeJeune agreed, saying he had
seen this done at several other
universities,

LeJeune said the next step for the
idea was for him to present it to EC
President Shayam Menon and from

there it will likely go to University
President John D. Wilson

 

The W &L soce

remodel their rooms. Washington University will
provide the students with paints, brushes, etc. for
the student to paint his room, however, he wants
it, within reason. This type of policy allows the
current resident to paint his room whatever color
he wants and the next occupant is free to paint
over it if he chooses. The school does not fine the
students for the painting.

Mohler also said that there hasn’t been much
trouble with students repainting their rooms in the
past. A few students make requests to change the
color of their rooms and when the requests are
denied some go ahead and pay the fee at the end of
the year.

The majority of students repainting their rooms
occurs in the Woods Creek Apartments. Three
people painted their rooms last year and one re-
quest to paint this year has been denied. The
Superintendant of Buildings and Grounds, J.L. Ar-
thur, commented that the rooms last year were
generally in fair condition and showed improve-
ment over the previous few years.

Lofts are also prohibited except for those which
were built by the University this summer in Davis
dormitory. All of the rooms in Davis, except the
corner rooms, have built-in lofts. If a loft is seen
during an inspection it will be taken apart and the
lumber will be confiscated by the Department of
Buildings and Grounds. There are two inspec-
tions: a spot inspection around Christmas and the
final inspection in the spring. The addition of
small convenience items such as lamps or small
tables is allowed; however, the University feels
that the furniture provided — a bed, a study table,
a chair and a chest of drawers — is adequate for
any student’s needs.

er team on their way to an 8-0 win over the Universi-
ty of the South. See story, page 5.

k , ee ee
The cost

of living

By CHRISTIE CHAMPLIN
Staff Reporter

 

 

Living in University housing
can be costly if you don’t follow
the rules. Here are some of the
things the University looks for
during inspection and what the
charges are:

eThe charge when the Universi-
ty repaints one wall — $25, two
walls — $40, three walls — $60, en-
tire room — $80.

Missing towel bar — $10.

eMissing or discharged fire ex-
tinguisher — $25.

Missing shade — $20.

Torn shade — $10.

¢Missing mirror — $15.

¢Broken mirror — $10.

Missing chair — $57.

Missing dresser — $190.

Missing study table — $171.

¢Missing mattress — $55

Missing bed — $114.

eAdditional general cleanup

 

 

 

      

Perry Hayes
/The Ring-tum Phi
 

 

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 2, 1986

 

Apathetic

One of my biggest pet peeves is apathy, particularly stu-
dent apathy. Student apathy is most notable at football
games. The stands are filled for the first half, yet the only
fans who remain for the whole game are the fans from the op-
posing team. The football team spends many hot afternoons
training for these games. Their only reward seems to be the
recognition they receive from their classmates and the en-
joyment they receive from playing the game. To not care
enough to support your fellow classmates or school seems
pathetic enough, but to get up and leave as one huge mass is
downright rude. It seems to me that the parties could wait
another hour. (Often Saturday night parties after football
games are somewhat of a let-down, most often because
party-goers, who started drinking early in the day, are pass-
ed out by the time the party gets into full swing.) I really
can’t believe that students at W&L don’t care about our
athletic teams (for student apathy is present at all athletic
games, but is most noticable at football games) or the im-
pression our apathy must make on visitors to W&L. I believe
we have reason to be quite embarrassed.

It seems a shame to me that many of the opportunities
W&L provides are wasted. Only at school of this size is it
possible to have an author give more than a typical reading,
that is to say, actually hold a discussion in a classroom set-
ting. Rather than speculate on symbolism, you can actually
ask the author. Unfortunately, very few people attend
readings or lectures (and those who attend usually do so only
because it is required for a class). Despite the fact it is expen-
sive for University to hire the people to speak, it’s just plain
embarrassing to for them to speak to an empty room. Many
plays are presented and various musical groups perform
each year and admission is usually free to the W&L com-
munity, yet it’s considered a big crowd if the place is half full.

Aclosely related aspect of student apathy is the general un-
willingness of anyone on this campus to say what they think
for fear that someone will think worse of them. Often people
come up to me to tell me how they disagreed with my opinion,
yet very few of these people are willing to be quoted or be
held accountable for their opinion. It is highly unlikely that
you will be exiled to Siberia just because your opinion differs
from someone elses. During the past week someone referred
to me as one ‘“‘who b------ the loudest’. Although I do have opi-
nions, I don’t feel I am as vehement in my opinions as com-
pared to many W&L students, and it always surprises me
when someone hesistates to say what they think. It seems
many people want to try to please everyone else and gain
universal acceptance (if such a thing is possible, ) at the sake
of their own individualism.

The problem of student apathy can be changed. I can only
hope that in the coming years it becomes more popular to
support our school and its athletic teams. It would be wonder-
ful to see the kind of school unity and participation that is
generally seen only during Parent’s Weekend or at those
games versus Roanoke College, when the infamous Unknown
Fans make their appearance, at every game. I hope more
people take advantage of the speakers, theatrical produc-
tions, and musical presentations that the University offers.
But most of all, I hope that people will have enough con-
fidence in themselves (and their friends) to realize they
won’t be ostracized if their opinion doesn’t happen to match
everyone else’s.

Enlightening

It was wonderful news to hear that Washington and Lee has
come a step closer to bringing the tennis courts out of the
dark ages with the installation of lights for night play.

One of the only problems with the lights is the suggestion
that players pay for the lighting if they wish to play at night.
Now, it is understandable that there is a large cost involved
installing the system. However, one of the major reasons the
system is needed is that student players do not always have
access to the courts during the day, due to such things as
classes and tennis team practice.

Students playing racquetball, squash, handball or basket-
ball in Warner Center are not charged a quarter or two per
hour to keep the lights on. Students using the track at Wilson
Field are not charged by the lap. So in all fairness, should
tennis players be charged to enjoy their sport? Tennis coach
Gary Franke said that it should not be ‘‘too much to ask”’
from players “‘to spend a couple of quarters to play at night.’’
For some students living on a shoestring budget, though,
those quarters might translate into clean clothes for the next
few days. Should they be left out of a recreational activity
just for that reason?

Basically, the idea of lights for some of the tennis courts is
an excellent one that has been long overdue, with or without
the moneyboxes controlling the lights. We only hope that
those in charge realize some of the contradictions involved in
charging students for the use of lights.

— MED

— WSB
EE AEE A RTT NT TED AOA

Che Ring-tum Phi

 
 

NEWS STAFF
ed ee eee Jason Lisi
Sean Bugg
Managing Editor, Entertainment Editor......................6.0005 Marshall Boswell
MA TN ggg noc cccctncsccsecs - David Emrich
a ke ee ar ... Perry Hayes
SR. «isi i ihe Mike Shady
EDITORIAL PAGE
ng er ee Marie Dunne
I oink tsi sinc dete Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
rr Greg Turley
oe ee Robert Jones
CO I ao 5h 6 kas nnn bck c sgn cc ecih ives viviaees Mathew Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity,

 

 

",...but hardly the last balls with CLASS."

 

COUNTERPOINT

Sororities : ‘what’s the bigrush??

By Susan C. Lewis
with Keri Hinricks
and Alexa Salzman

As the school year progresses, it is
inevitable that more and more atten-
tion be focused on the question of
whether or not sororities should be
established at W&L. Unfortunately,
many people do not know there is a
group with the opinion that the ques-
tion should be “‘Is now the best time
for sororities?” rather than “How
soon can they be established?”’

After attending a meeting about
sororities last year, some people left
feeling almost dizzy from the
statements that had been made.
Many who indeed do want sororities
sometime in the future felt pressure
and a sense of bewilderment in hear-
ing talk of a Winter Rush. But the
breakneck pace has already been set,
although some people are beginning
to come forward now and say, ‘Wait
a minute. Why the big rush? Maybe
we need to sit back and really talk
this issue through and give everyone
achance to think about it.”

One of the first questions that
comes to mind has to be: ‘‘What le-
gitimate need has been shown for
sororities?”” Any needs shown for
sororities, such as housing, com-
munity service and social events, can

be met just as well - and indeed bet-
ter - by the Women’s Forum. There
are many opportunities for leader-
ship and service to the W&L com-
munity yet to be developed in this
new organization which promotes
unity and cooperation among the
women at W&L in a non-competitive
atmosphere. If sororities are
established, it seems almost certain
that the Women’s Forum will be
much less effective. Until the oppor-
tunities presented by it are fully
taken advantage of, is it fair to aban-
don the Women’s Forum so soon
after its establishment? E
200 women at W&L. Even if all were
involved in the Women’s Forum
-which seems highly unlikely - surely
this small number of women can
work together as a group. After all,
surrounding schools have many
more women than W&L, yet they do
not have sororities. Hollins,
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College,
and Sweet Briar all have about 800
students, and they seem to be able to
work together quite well without
sororities.

Another factor which has to be con-
sidered is how sororities would lead
to an alienation of the surrounding
women’s schools. This shock would
almost seem too much to ask of the
present W&L social system, which
has seen enough change in the past

two years.

Sororities would also seem to
divide women at W&L itself, even as
we strive to get to know and form
bonds with the new freshman class.
They would even serve to increase
the competition which already exists
socially.

It seems only fair to ask, too, what
other school has seen sororities
develop in the second year of
coeducation. Do we now have so
soon, not only the need, but the
means, power, or perhaps even
privilege to ask for sororities so
quickly? Only if the necessary work
and great responsibilities of begin-
ning a sorority are fully understood
can this question be answered.

At first glance, the recent polls con-
cerning sororities appear to be
almost overwhelmingly in favor of
them. But if one looks more closely at
the questions themselves, it becomes
clear that there was little room left
for indecision in these polls. The
questions dealt more with ‘‘Do you
think there should be sororities?”
and not with ‘‘When do you think they
should be established?”’ or simply ‘‘I
haven’t decided yet.”” Probably the
majority of women answered in the
questionnaire that they would partic-
ipate in Winter Rush this year. But
from this simple fact, one cannot
deduce that this is because all women

LETTER

Reader questions Phi’s professional ethics

 

2
POINT
Students

want
sororities

By Caroline Boone
Elizabeth Cummins :
Eleanor Nelson ¢
°
We are in favor of having national RP
sororities at Washington and Lee |
because we forsee the many benefits
and opportunities that they could pro- « *
vide. ; =
Some people have certain precon- . :
ceptions about what sororities could « f
be such as beer drinking clubs, ex- , :

clusive cliques, and barriers to
women’s unity. The national ‘
sororities that have contacted W&L ; ‘
encourage the immediate benefits of
scholarship and leadership and the
future advantages of national net-
working and career contacts. Em-
phasis is placed on academic ex-
cellence by requiring the main-
tenance of certain grade point
averages for Rush and membership.
Sororities would increase women’s
leadership possibilities on campus
through their elected offices.
Sororities can further promote
motivation by involving its members
in such ways as athletics, community
service, and campus activities. In ad-
dition to making new friends with
varied interests and experiences,
sororities also provide a support
system of peers. The big sister/little
sister program encourages friend-
ship throughout the classes. Sorori-
ties could diversify the social life on {
campus by allowing the women to

plan and sponsor social functions.

We recognize the reservations that _
people have about sororities coming
too soon or even at all. Weare nottry- ‘
ing to get sororities overnight, but we |
need to begin laying a strong founda-_
tion in order to enjoy the benefits of
belonging to a sorority before grad-
uating from Washington and Lee. We
are willing to work with these reser-
vations in mind. We therefore en- , ;
courage everyone to channel their in- \
put in a positive way. Sororities can
be what we, the women of W&L,
make them. It’s up to all of us.

 

feel the school is ready for sororities

or rather they may fear being left out

if they do not participate from the

start. Surely in this case indecisionis . , ,
neither acquiescence nor apathy, but ¢
rather a definite position of slowing

the pace down a bit so that sororities
develop more on their own and with a:
majority’s initiative.

Indecision does not necessarily —
lead to the idea that there should «
never be sororities at W&L. It should ;
lead, on the other hand, to people
stepping back from the situation and:
looking at it objectively in regard to
need and responsibility, not as ‘the
in thing to do.”

No one should feel pressured into
deciding one way or the other before
they are ready. Perhaps this is one
situation in which sitting on the fence
for a year or two is the best thing for ;
both individuals and the W&L com-
munity as a whole.

In the meantime, everyone - re-
gardless of their opinion - should stay
informed of the developments, and
perhaps most importantly, speak out
with their views. Attend all meetings
of the sorority steering committee.
Only in this way can it be discovered
exactly how everyone feels about
sororities. And after all these ques-
tions have been examined, the sorori-
ty issue can be settled - all in due ‘ |‘

me. ’

 

tla tl,
~~ oreo ce a,

 

 

 

Letter to the Editor:

Is the concept of professional ethics dead at
Washington and Lee? Come on—‘‘SEE IT TO
BELIEVE’’—how much did Marshall Boswell
and his Sigma Chi buddies pay for last week’s
ad? That is just the type of managerial behavior
that has been keeping the really talented writers
of Reid Hall from working on the Phi for years.
Will it ever change?

I am also curious about why the Phi didn’t
spring for a full-page color photo of the brothers
of Sigma Nu. It’s about the only thing you, the
editors, have not done for your ‘‘up-and-coming”’
house. Was it rejected because the Phi can’t af-

ford color printing? You could increase the an-
nual fee paid by the other fraternities to cover
printing costs. I don’t see why you don’t take the
final step and change the name of the Phi to
‘‘What’S Nu”.

Any other ethical questions? Yes...When 17
fraternity presidents and their representatives
unanimously agree to ban even the presence of
hard alcohol at rush parties, to say nothing of
rush dates, are they committing an honor offense
(and I use the term loosely) when they disregard
that agreement? Sorry, I guess I’m just old
fashioned, but I make every effort to keep my
word. Dirty rush tactics should not be part of the
game-plan.,

I'm ashamed that journalistic integrity and
the merit of a verbal contract are no longer alive
at W&L. In the scramble for a pledge class
which, as of yet, has no idea what real “‘fraterni-
ty” is all about, W&L frat-men are covering
themselves with mud to look more attractive. I
don’t understand why using school media posi-
tions for the benefit of personal interest is so
blatantly pursued. Is this type of behavior in-
tended to be more attractive to the new W&L
gentleman? If it is, then we can no longer call
ourselves gentlemen.

J.C. Cummings
Class of ’87

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 2, 1986

 

 

 

Good times

 
 
   

a
a —

 

seams rene te aletaiadimame
By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Ph

A group of University of Virginia students enjoy the Foxfield Races in a hearse

complete with a coffin cooler.

Clydesdales parade here

 

By SEAN BUGG
Editor

 

The Budweiser Clydesdale horses
and beer wagon appeared in Lex-
ington today, beginning their parade
at Virginia Military Institute and en-
ding in front of Washington and Lee.
The appearance is part of a series
throughout the area to benefit the
Multiple Sclerosis Fund Drive.

The Clydesdales are staying at
Newmarket Stables in Stuart’s Draft.
Glenn Eickhoff, assistant driver for
the horse team, said that people were
welcome to come look at the horses.

Eickhoff is a member of one of
three travelling Clydesdale hitches;
his team is based in Merrimack, N.H.
David Pike is supervisor and lead
driver for the team.

There are two other travelling hit-
ches in the nation, one based in St.
Louis, Mo., and the other in
Romoland, Calif.

Eickhoff, who has been with the
team for five years, said ‘‘I’d worked
with horses all my life,’ so when a
position opened, he took the job.

“They really treat their horses and
people well,” said Eickhoff.

Eickhoff said that he had never had
any real problem with the
Clydesdales. “‘They’re very good-
natured and easy to work with,’’ he
said, adding that ‘‘they all know their
job.”

There are ten horses to each team.
The horses are rotated so that eight
horses pull the wagon on one stop,
while two of them rest. The horses
names are Pete, Craig, Pat, Sandy,
Scotty, Chief, Matt, Blue, Barney,
and Colonel.

Some of the horses’ positions on the
hitch are determined by their size.
Pete and Colonel, the two biggest of
the Clydesdale team, are hitched
closest to the wagon, due to the great
amount of strength it requires to pull
the large load.

The front members of the team
usually are Pat and Sandy, two of the
small horses. The front horses need
more agility than strength to make
the turns in a parade.

The horses normally retire from
their work around the age of fifteen,
depending on their health and other

factors, according to Eickhoff.

Also a member of the team is
Frank, a blue-eyed Dalmation who
recently came to the team, replacing
the former mascot. “He’s a young
dog,’ Eickhoff said. Frank, who is
one year old, will work for six to eight
years with the team.

The antique Budweiser wagon that
the Clydesdales pull around the East
Coast was build by Studebaker

before they began making
automobiles. This original wagon has
been completely restored.

Commenting on the care of the
wagon, Eickhoff said, “It’s touched
up everytime we go home.’’ The
wagon needs a total paint job only
once every six to eight years.

The wagon has been free of major
troubles, such as broken wheels.
Eickhoff called the wagon “pretty
heavy duty.”

During appearances by the
Clydesdales, Ejickhoff said they
mostly “drive them around and let
people take pictures of them.”’

The horses “‘usually get a lot of
response,” Eickhoff said. ““We do a
lot of colleges.”’

 

Fraternities warned:

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Police warned four fraternities for
noise violations Saturday night, said
Lexington Police Chief L. O. Sutton.

Also this weekend, five W&L
students were charged with violating
Virginia’s state alcohol laws; three
for drinking in public and two for
underage possession of alcohol.

Phi Kappa Psi, Pi Kappa Psi, Kap-
pa Sigma and Sigma Alpha Epsilon
each got written warnings from
police for not controlling noise after
12:00 midnight.

Junior Markham Healey and
seniors William Rice and Joseph
Phoenix received summonses for
drinking in public. Sophomores

Carolyn Hopper and Mark Robertson
were cited for underage possession of
beer.

Despite the noise problems, Sutton
said fraternities were under better
control this weekend than last.

“Tt usually takes the house
presidents a little bit of time at the
beginning of the year to get their peo-
ple under control,”’ said Sutton, who
added ‘‘we’ve been fortunate with
cooperation from fraternity pres-
idents so far.”’

Sutton said he talks to the fraterni-
ty representatives each week when
they come in for party noise permits.
“Tf there is a problem, I speak to
them individually and explain what it
1877

“If we go to a house and don’t get
any cooperation from the house of-

ive students charged

ficers, then they may jolly well not
get a noise permit for the next
week.”’

Rules governing noise permits are
not “hard and fast,”’ he said, but are
generally based on cooperation re-
ceived from houses in the past.

If the police find the house officers
are trying to cooperate in controlling
noise and guests, Sutton will take this
into consideration.

“Our enforcement is done in a way
to foster voluntary compliance,” ad-
ded the chief:

In other police news:

*Senior Richard Hobson reported
his car speakers stolen from his car
sometime between Friday and Satur-
day night. The car was parked in
front of the Pi Kappa Phi house at the
time.

 

 

When asked who like the horses the
most, he said, “I think everybody
does, especially the kids.”’

Eickhoff has never seen any trou-
ble between the horses and the
crowds. However, they ‘‘always have
someone to walk alongside of them.”
That helps ensure that no one tries to
excite the horses.

The Clydesdales, pictured here in a publicity photo, cam

eee

The travelling team spends 10 to 11
months per year on the road. ‘“‘We do
basically everything,” Eickhoff said
of his and his co-worker’s job. That
includes taking care of the horses,
the wagon and the trucks.

Eickhoff said that there was no
specific training needed to work with
the Clydesdales.

e to Lexington today.

      

File Photo

Seven grooms are on the team to
prepare the horses for appearances.
Although groomed daily, the horses
are groomed for about five hours for
an appearance.

Although on the road for long
amounts of time, members of the
team “‘have vacations and that sort
of thing.” Eickhoff said.

 

NEWS BRIEFS TALKBACK

 

Staff Reports

 

Opening enrollment at Washington and Lee Universi-
ty for the 1986-87 year is at the highest point ever in the
university’s 238-year history.

Enrollment stood at 1,804 students when classes
began earlier this month, according to Scott Dittman,
university registrar. Dittman said it was the first time
enrollment at W&L had exceeded 1,800 students.

According to figures released from the registrar’s of-
fice, the total undergraduate student body at the
University stood at 1,429, an 8.4 percent increase over
the student body size at the end of the last academic
year. Of those students, 1,176 are enrolled in the College
of Arts and Sciences; 253 are enrolled in the School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics.

In its second year of admitting women under-
graduates, W&L had a total of 228 undergraduate
women and 1,429 undergraduate men. Ninety-six per-
cent of the women who enrolled during the 1985-86
academic year returned this year.

The W&L Law School had a total of 364 students
according to the registrar. Of that number, 140 are
women and 244 are men.

Symposium on W&L planned

The 19th century art and architecture of Washington
and Lee University and the university’s commitment to
its restoration will be the topic of an all-day symposium
at the University.

“Art and Architecture at Washington and Lee in the
19th Century”’ is the title of the symposium on October 8
that will bring together some of the nation’s leading ex-
perts in art history, preservation and restoration. The
morning session of the symposium is scheduled to run
from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.; the afternoon session will
begin at 2:05 p.m. and end at 4:15 p.m, The symposium
is open to the public.

The symposium is being held in conjunction with the
dedication of the Morris House, one of four antebellum
houses on the W&L campus build in 1842. The restora-
tion of the Morris House, which will serve as the univer-
sity’s guest house and conference center, was made
possible through a gift to Washington and Lee from
Joella and Stewart Morris of Houston, Texas.

The Morris House will be dedicated during
ceremonies between the morning and afternoon ses-
sions, The dedication will begin at 12:30 p.m.

John D. Wilson, president of the university, and his
wife, Anne, will host a reception and dinner in honor of
the dedication on October 7.

Career fair set for November

Forty-five companies have registered for
CHALLENGE ’87, a liberal arts career fair that will be
held on Wednesday, Nov. 12, 1986 at the Radisson Hotel
in Lynchburg. This event is sponsored by Hampden-
Sydney College, Hollins College, Longwood College,

_ Lynchburg College, Mary Baldwin College, Randolph-

 

W&L enrollment at highest point

Macon Woman’s College, Sweet Briar College and
Virginia Military Institute as well as Washington and
Lee University.

Seniors who wish to participate must register by Oct.
10 in the Office of Career Development and Placement.

Throughout the day, the employers will have tables of
information about their organizations set up in a central
area. Workshops will be offered and individual inter-
views may be arranged.

Library receives memorabilia

The Washington and Lee University Library’s collec-
tion of theatre memorabilia is growing.

George W. Ray, professor of English at W&L, recent-
ly gave 80 autographed letters by fifty-five famous ac-
tors and playwrights to the University Library’s
Special Collection. These letters expand an existing
theatre collection the library received many years ago.

The letters were purchased by Ray in London last
spring while he was on sabbatical. They had been part
of a collection of theatre memorabilia belonging to the
late Alec Clunes, a leading actor and director in British
theatre who managed the Arts Theatre in London. Ray
was able to obtain the letters from Mrs. Clunes, who
serves on the Board of the London Academy of Music
and Dramatic Art. Hence, the gift has been ap-
propriately named ‘‘The Clunes Theatre Autograph
Collection.”’

Included in the collection are letters from leading
British actors and actresses such as Charles Kemble,
Fanny Kemble, Charles Kean, William Charles
Macready, Ellen Terry, Sir Henry Irving and Johnston
Forbes-Robertson. The earliest letter, dated 1807, is
from John Philips Kemble, successor to David Garrick.
Included also are letters from playwrights H. J. Byron,
James Robinson Planche, Arthur Wing Pinero,
Matheson Lang and Tom Taylor, author of ‘Our
American Cousin,”

Ryan to co-edit oratory books

Halford R. Ryan, professor of public speaking at
Washington and Lee, has been named co-editor of a col-
lection of books on American oratory.

Ryan and Bernard Duffy of Clemson University will
co-edit a series titled ‘Great American Orators:
Critical Studies, Bibliographies, and Speeches.”’

The series will treat important contributions by
Americans to politics, law and preaching through 300
years of American oratory. Each volume will be ap-
proximately 60 percent essay, 20 percent biblio-
graphical materials and 20 percent significant speech
texts.

A member of the W&L faculty since 1970, Ryan is a
graduate of Wabash College. He received his master’s
and doctorate degrees from the University of Illinois.
He is a member of the Speech Communication Associa-
tion and is past president of the Virginia Forensic
Association.

 

lf you were

president of

what change,
if any, would

you make first?

Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
MATHEW HORRIDGE

 

 

Debi Hurtt, Chestertown, Md.,
sophomore ‘‘Something has to be
done about the apathy of the

students
events.”’

regarding sports

 

Washington and Lee,

 

Andrew Caruthers, Shreveport,
La., senior “Make it so that
women must have 1600 on their
SATs, but they would never let me
be president.”’

 

Travis Wilhite, Austin, Texas,
freshman “‘I’d put an elevator in
Graham-Lees dorm, up to, like,
the fourth floor.’’

 

Victor Vesely, Montreal,
Canada, junior “I’d probably
make none, and just allow things
to follow their own course.”’

 

 

Matt

Richmond,
senior ‘‘I think I’d try to promote
more harmony between the facul-
ty and students, between the stu-
dent organizations. In the four
years I’ve been here I've seen that
decrease.”’

Steilberg,

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 2, 1986

The voice on the other end of the phone was not Pat-
ty’s, and I was not happy.

“Who is this?”’ I asked.

“It’s the operator,”’ was the reply. ‘““Were you two
talking?”

“Oh no, of course not,” I said. ‘‘Whenever I make
long-distance phone calls to Wilmington, Del., it’s to
communicate in sign-language with my deaf-mute girl-
friend.”’

Okay, so maybe I didn’t say that to the operator who
cut off my conversation a couple of weeks ago. She’s
just lucky I hadn’t hit the old milk bar earlier in the
evening, or I might’ve cussed her out.

Those of you who are returning to Lexington probably
have had similar experiences with the operators. For
you newcomers, welcome to the wrath of Central Tele-
phone Co., the business most responsible for maintain-
ing the Shenandoah Valley’s historic — or perhaps pre-
historic — authenticity.

As a dorm counselor, I realize the mental anguish
Centel can cause. That’s why I thought it would be im-
portant to provide a step-by-step explanation of how to
make an operator-resisted phone call in Lexington.

Metro Lex is the only city I know of where you can
dial 0 and not get an answer. At Centel Central, the
switchboard lights up, and all the operators yell, ‘‘Tele-
phone!”’ but none of them bothers to find out who’s call-
ing.

Don’t worry. They’re just testing you and usually will
answer if you call back a second ortthird time.

Perseverance is a must. You can’t use a calling card
or make a toll-free call on a Centel pay phone without

LEXICON

By Steven Pockrass

the operator’s (cough) help. The first step, once the
operator answers, is to talk to him or her. Pray they
speak English.

The operator either will ask you for your calling card
number or the number you wish to call. Make sure you
know which is which, and speak slowly and clearly
— Centel operators love to scold people. “I didn’t ask
for your calling card numer. I asked for the number you
wished to call,” they’ll say.

‘Whoa, sorry. Didn’t mean to lay such a heavy load
on you.”

Then the operator will dial the number for you, reduc-
ing the possibility of your injuring a digit while punch-
ing digits. To test your reflexes and recall, the operator
will wait until the phone is ringing before asking for the
number from which you’re speaking. So when your.
hometown honey, parental unit or probation officer
answers the phone, you'll still be snarling with the
operator.

But finally, you will be hooked up. You'll converse.
You'll be psyched. Then IT will happen.

The operators will listen in. They always do. I’m sure
of it. Right when you're at the really good part of the
conversation, wham, they’ll throw on the static.

Or else, boom, they’ll somehow put another conversa-
tion on the same line, like a telephone orgy. But most
likely, you’ll just get the big whammy and be cut off.

Then the operator will ask you a brilliant question,
such as, ‘‘Oh, were you two having a conversation?”

And you'll be able to look forward to making your call
all over again. The wrath of Centel is never-ending.

 

 

 

 

SERVIDTAR.

23 S. Main Lexington, Va. 24450
Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

NELSON STREET

424 E. Nelson Street

   

115 S. Main St.,

Chevron
Specializing in Brakes, A.C. and Tune Ups

10% Off Total Labor Bill
No Gasoline

* ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE * EXPIRES 5/31/87 *
1 oO A

      
      
   
 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers
463-2742
“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

SERVICENTER

Lexington, Virginia

SAFEWAY

 

Ome meee eee ee eee eee ee OES

eee eee eee ee eee eee eee)

eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee

 

 

All We Have ’

In Store

We have an incredible selection of gifts,
Western boots and hats, guns, ammo,
hunting clothing, archery, saddlery,
jewelry and lots more — all at great prices.

Come See Us

 

 

 

 

 

For You,

=

uti ts!

The Computer Center will be of-
fering the following free classes
during October:

Beginning Word Perfect on the
IBM/PC: Each class will cover
basic word processing functions,
such as underlining, moving text,
centering text, footnotes, printing,
and formatting diskettes. Mon-
day, October 6 — 7:30 p.m. - 9:30
p.m. Reid Hall, 3rd Floor, News
Room. Tuesday, October 7 - 7:30
p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Reid Hall, 3rd
Floor, News Room.

Introduction to the Prime Com-
puter: Each class will cover disk
files and directories, logging in
and out of the system, using the
screen editor, and basic user com-
mands. Tuesday, October 14
—7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. (place to be
announced). Thursday, October
16 — 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. (place to
be announced).

Introduction to Tell-a-Graf on
the Prime: This class will cover
the use of Tell-A-Graf, an interac-
tive graphics program available
on the Prime computer system. A
working knowledge of the Prime
computer is prerequisite. Tues-
day, October 21 — 7:30 - 9:30 p.m.
(place to be announced).

To register for any class, please
contact Joanna Meade in the Com-
puter Center, Tucker Hall, ext.
8844, from 8:30 - 4:30, Monday
-Friday.

The Washington and Lee Film
Society has announced its ninth
season: Our first presentation of
the year will be ‘‘Confidentially
Yours” (‘“‘Vivement Dimanche’’;
France, 1984) directed by Fran-
cois Truffaut. Showings will be at
8:00 p.m. on Friday 3 October and
Saturday 4 October in Classroom
“A” in Lewis Hall (the Law
School). There is no charge for ad-
mission. The film is in French,
with English subtitles.

Other films scheduled are ‘‘The
Boat is Full’’ (German/
Switzerland, 1981) on October
24-25, ‘“Cal’’ (Ireland, 1984) on

 

November 14-15, and “Colonel
Redl’’ (Hungary/Germany, 1985)
on December 5-6.

“‘Confidentially Yours’’ is the
great Truffaut’s final film, com-
pleted shortly before his untimely
death. Based upon a thriller by
Charles Williams (The Long
Saturday Night), this offbeat
detective story, filmed in black-
and-white, is an homage to
American films of the genre. Fan-
ny Ardant is wonderful as a
secretary determined to clear her
boss (Jean-Louis Trintignant) of
the murder of his wife and her
lover. Reminiscent of ‘Shoot the
Piano Player’’, this is a purely
Truffaut blend of comedy,
suspense, and romance.

At about 7:15 p.m., before each
night’s showing of ‘‘Confidentially
Yours’’, we will present an infor-
mal reception in the Lewis Hall
lobby, outside the Moot Cour-
troom. We will provide cookies
and coffee, and we hope to use this
occasion to make new friends and
to meet those of you who have
been with us for a while. We look
forward to discussing our series
with you and to receiving your
suggestions.

The support of many friends has
enabled the Film Society to bring
to Lexington — without admission
charges — recent films of quality
which have been unavailable in
local theatres. The Law School
has kindly provided the facilities
and numerous individuals have
contributed generously. While the
student Executive Committee and
the University provide partial
support, we continue to depend
upon your generosity to continue
the series at its recent level.

While we welcome all dona-
tions, we particularly solicit your
contributions in one fo the follow-
ing categories: ‘‘Sponsor’’ ($25 a
year); ‘“‘Patron’’ ($50 a year); or
“Angel” (over $50 a year).
Students may become Sponsors
with a contributions of $10 or
more. The program notes

[GENERAL NOTES | NOTES

distributed at each showing list all
contributors in these categories.

The Washington & Lee Rowing
Club will meet Friday at 5 p.m. in
the P.E. classroom in Doremus
Gym. All interested persons are
welcome.

The Office of Career Develop-
ment and Placement is sponsor-
ing sessions titled Identifying
Career Alternatives on Oct. 2 at 3
p.m, These are designed to help
upperclassmen consider their op-
tions. Students will learn how to
match their interests, values, and
skills to the world of work. Ses-
sions will be held in Room 109 of
the University Center and will last
approximately one and a half
hours. Advance sign-up is not nec-
essary.

The Office of Career Develop-
ment and Placement has released
a schedule of workshops for the
coming week,

Monday, October 6—7 p.m.—
Apply to Graduate school—Room
109 of University Center.

Tuesday, October 7—4 p.m.—
Resume Writing—Room 109 of
University Center.

Wednesday, October 8—3
p.m.—Interviewing Techniques—
Room 109 of University Center
followed by videotaped mock in-
terviews on Thursday, October
9—2 - 4:30 p.m. in seminar room
103 of the University Library.

Learn how to write a resume
that is attractive and effective.
Learn the value of presenting
yourself succinctly and in an in-
teresting way. Attend an early
workshop if you intend to have
your resume ready for the Book of
Resumes which goes to press on
October 24, 1986. Sessions will be
held in Room 109 of the University
Center and will last approximate-
ly one hour. Advance sign-up is
not necessary.

 

 

Artist speaks to W&L students

 

By EVELYN M. FAHY
Staff Reporter

 

Artist John Borden Evans
presented a gallery talk to the W&L
community last Friday in the duPont
Gallery. Evans’ talk and discussion,
attended by mostly art stulfents
focused on his style and the practical
aspects of an artist’s life.

Evans said the paintings on display
in duPont were recent ones that
marked a change from his earlier
abstract ties. While not actually sur-
realistic, the paintings are the result
of an “‘action-reaction’’ method in
which Evans writes phrases that
come to mind on primed canvasses.
Often, the shapes of the words lend
themselves to shapes which evolve
into a finished painting in a time
period of six months to two years.

Since he is “not satisfied with
anything but the best,” he often
paints over paintings a number of
times until he achieves what he con-
siders to be good. This process
results in the thick, textural look
characteristic of Evans’ work.

Evans’ paintings range from small
works on paper, such as “Dripping
Cones,” to the massive ‘‘Yuki Man,”
whose Japanese title means
“‘snowman.”’ Evans declines to give
specific meanings to his paintings,
which he says come from his “gut”
rather than his head. He wants his

| viewers to get their own unique ideas

of what each painting means.
Evans also talked about his
lifestyle. A ‘‘househusband”’ with two
children, Evans follows a schedule in
which he paints on Mondays,
Wednesdays, and Fridays and
babysits on Tuesdays and
Thursdays. As the title of one of his
works emphasizes, ‘‘painting is hard
work.’’ Therefore, Evans stressed,
an artist must get into the habit of
painting on a regular basis, whether
he or she is in the ‘‘mood’’ or not.
Evans is a 1979 graduate of David-
son College.

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Interior” by Evans is in duPont Gallery.

Prescriptions
Hair care products
Dental needs

 

 

 

 

FIUNTER@HUNTRESS

18 E. Nelson St., Lexington
463-1800
Mon.-Sat. 10-5 Fri. 10-8

 

       
 

 

LEXINGTON PRESCRIPTION
CENTER

11 West Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9166

Welcomes Your Business
We accept charge accounts to your parents.

We will make special orders to get your brand of merchandise.
10% off on original purchase.

Better colognes and after shave lotions

 

 
   
     
     
     
       
     
   
     
     
   
         
   
         
      
       

Contact lens care products
Shaving products

 

George’s Hairsty

for men and women
136 Varner Lane

463-3975

Redken - Nexus -

Paul Mitchell - Sebastian

Directly behind the Leggett Store

Free Parking

Hairstylists — Rita, Debbie, Donna, Mary, Jessie, Sandra, George

Mon.-Fri., 8:30-5:00

  

 
  
  
   
     
 

 

 

SS ee
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 2, 1986

 

Soccer ends skid with 8-0
shutout of Univ. of South

 

By GARY McCULLOUGH
Staff Reporter

 

After coming off a three game
downswing, in which the team failed
to score a goal, the soccer Generals
kicked back into action last Saturday
by overwhelming the Sewanee Tigers
in their own 8-0 shutout.

After defeating Shenandoah 3-1 in
the first game of the season, the
Generals suffered three disappoint-
ing losses to East Carolina, N.C.
Wesleyan, and Mary Washington.
Head coach Rolf Piranian said that
he was still very optimistic after the
string of losses. He said that although
the team was playing pretty well as a
whole, some defensive problems, es-

Generals

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

 

 

When the Generals’ Kevin Weaver
scored on a one-yard dive play with
1:10 remaining in the fourth quarter
Saturday against Centre, pulling
W&L to within one, there was no
doubt in head coach Gary Fallon’s
mind about the subsequent conver-
sion attempt.

‘“‘We worked too darn hard all week
trying to prepare ourselves to win,
and, given that opportunity, there’s
no question in our minds that we’re
going to go for the win.’’ The
Generals flooded a corner of the end
zone with three receivers, hoping
quarterback Jon Thornton could find
an open man. But a Centre corner-
back reached up and swatted away
Thornton’s pass and, with it, all hope

Sports Editor

pecially in the midfield area, kept
them in the hole.

However, these defensive pro-
blems are now a thing of the past. De-
nying the Tigers of any goals what-
soever, the Generals took advantage
of what Piranian called ‘‘an explo-
sion.” This is, of course, referring to
the eight goals scored by the General
offense.

Despite the impressive offense the
Generals displayed, they could not
have won without the solid defensive
effort which ruled out any chance of a
Sewanee goal. Piranian was very ex-
cited about the ‘good, solid team ef-
fort” which he saw on Saturday. The
impressive offensive-defensive coor-
dination was the key to the victory.

When asked about personal scor-

fall short

for a Generals’ victory. The loss left
W&L winless in its first two games
and very concerned about next
week’s game with undefeated Ran-
dolph-Macon.

Fallon noted the effectiveness of
the Colonels’ defense, which had shut
out the Generals for 58 minutes.
“They swarm to the ball quite well,”’
said Fallon, pointing out that the Cen-
tre defense changed fronts often and
used stunts and slants to confuse the
Generals offensively, particularly
during the first half.

Fallon also praised his own de-
fensive corps. “Overall, I was really
pleased with their hustle and at-
titude.’’ The Generals’ defense was
surprised by changes in the Colonels’
offensive scheme, said Fallon. Key
injuries forced Centre to go to a dou-
ble tight end formation, using
crossbacks and traps rather than the

s s |
The First String
By David Emrich

 

drug use.

+ among our most pure citizens.

 

his virtue?

Hero Worship?

eThis past summer two athletes, one a professional, the other
about to turn professional, died sudden deaths. Apparently, both had
been using some form of the drug cocaine shortly before they died.

eLast November, the goaltender of the Philadelphia Flyers, and
winner of the Vezina Trophy as the best goalie in the National Hockey
League, died in an alcohol related car crash.

°A little over a year ago, during baseball’s drug trials the names of
several baseball superstars were splashed over the headlines on every
sports page in the country. These men admitted to, or were accused of,

To these few examples of the major moral transgressions of our
athletes I’m sure you could think of many more, both major and
minor, you’d like to add. Athletes, after all, are not always counted

And therein lies the point, why should they be?
Who are we to decide that because a man (or a woman) is a flawless
| performer on the athletic field that he should be similarly flawless in

Why is it that we expect a person that can run a little faster, throw a
football a little farther or hit a baseball a little harder than the average
human being to be a role model for our youth?

That person, after all, is only doing what he (or she) does best. They

themselves? No, certainly not.

are making a living in the best way they know how: through athletics.

We wouldn’t expect those who can predict the stock market better,
or who can write more clearly, or can design an engine more efficently
to conduct themselves in a manner which is 66/100 of a percent more
pure than Ivory soap. That would be unreasonable.

Sure, athletes are in the public eye and therefore must lead public
lives. But again, who is really to blame for that—the athletes

These women (and men) are doing a job, and they are getting paid

 

for their work. We should expect them to do their jobs, no more, no
less. It is our decision to watch them work, not theirs. How, then, can
we hold the athletes responsible for a decision that we make? (When a
professional athlete says that he would play even if he weren’t getting
paid it must be taken with the proverbial grain of salt. Please see the
recent rash of strikes, holdouts, contract squabbles, and free agent
bidding wars for proof.)

And yet, if an athlete does something imperfect (human, if you will)
off the field, we act as if we’ve been betrayed.

This past April, Dwight Gooden got into an argument with a clerk at
the rental car desk in an airport. Nothing major. We’ve all been in
arguments of that type. Why, then, was this little disagreement in
every major newspaper in the country?

The man was 20 years old at the time and the only thing that made
him different from others of the same age group was his occupation.
You see, because Dwight Gooden can throw a baseball at 95-plus
miles-per-hour we expect superhuman perfection from him and then
become very indignant when he doesn’t or (can’t) deliver.

Then, despite all this unreasonable pressure we heap upon our
athletes, despite all the outrageous demands we make of our athletes,
despite all the scrutiny to which we subject these people, we are still
bold enough to become offended when an athlete receives special
treatment.

This is not to say that I think athletes should get preferential treat-
ment. I’m just pointing out that while we heap an extreme amount of
responsibility on athletes we refuse to give them the corresponding
amount of privilege. I believe that they should not have to shoulder the
responsibility and therefore would not deserve the privilege. —

On one hand we demand that these people be paragons of virtue for
our children to admire and imitate; on the other hand we despise these
men and women when they ask for a break because of the pressure we
put on them.

These are impossible demands to make of someone, and certainly
not ones that should be made of anyone. Not athletes, not politicians,

not newscasters, not anyone.

 

 

ing, Piranian said that the scoring
was pretty spread out. Once again he
stressed ‘‘team effort.’’ A score does
not occur without an assist, and an
assist does not occur without a
previous assist. By the time one adds
up all the assists, it is obvious that an
individual does not score without the
all-encompassing ‘‘team effort.”

The first string took Tuesday night
off while the remaining members of
the team took on Newport New Ap-
prentice, but the team will return to
face Greensboro College this Satur-
day.

Saturday’s win provided the
Generals with much needed momen-
tum and should give them a boost for
this weekend’s match-up.

at Centre

option attack for which the Generals
had prepared themselves the pre-
ceding week, The change in align-
ments caused recognition problems
for W&L’s linebackers. ‘‘We had to
play a guessing game as to where
they were going to take their
strength,” said Fallon.

Weaver, whom Fallon called ‘‘our
work horse,”’ had another great
game, gaining 121 yards on 35 car-
ries, placing him second on W&L’s
career yardage list. In 29 games, the
senior running back has gained 1,927
yards on nearly 400 carries and has
scored 24 touchdowns. ‘‘We’ve got to
get the ball to him as often as we
can,” said Fallon.

”

Fallon also praised the play of
Thornton, who completed 9 passes on
17 attempts for 106 yards. ‘(His
passes) had to be thrown hard and
zeroed in between defenders, and we

 

 

 

Sophomore Harry Halpert (20) goes for the ball against Sewanee.

, /-6, aS Fallon goes for win

thought he did a pretty good job in do-
ing so.” But an effective pass rush by
the Colonels led to incompletions and
occasional sacks. On one play,
Thornton was sacked for an 18 yard
loss, stalling a crucial second half
drive and giving the Colonels’ good
field position. Nevertheless, Fallon
called the senior quarterback a very
hard worker and said that the
coaches “look for better perfor-
mances (from him) each week.”’

This Saturday, the Generals return
home to face Randolph-Macon, a
team which the Generals defeated
last year, 31-19. “I’m sure they
remember that,’’ said Fallon, ‘‘and
they’re certainly going to come (to
Wilson Field) to avenge that loss.’’
The Yellow Jackets have won their
first three games this year, including
a 41-13 rout of Swathmore and a 21-7
win over Washington & Jefferson, a

 

 

 

 

Photo by Oliver J. MceGuillicuddy/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Jeff Bercaw takes a shot during last weekend’s

action.

Harriers split first meet

Prepare for Sat. race at Norfolk State

By ELIZABETH PARKINS
Staff Reporter

 

Over the weekend, the Washington
and Lee men’s cross country team
began their season with a win over
Washington College and a loss to
Mary Washington. Overall the team
scored 32 points in comparison to
Washington College’s 82 and Mary
Washington’s 24.

According to head coach Dick
Miller the team ran as expected but
was hampered by a lack of team
depth.

We are not very deep this year, in
terms of quality, (and) when some-
body has a bad day it hurts us in
terms of team performance,’’ said
Miller. ‘‘This is about what happened
to us on Saturday.”

Although Miller felt no one par-
ticularly stood out, several team
members did place well in the eight
kilometer race. Junior Scott Rippeon
placed second overall with a time of
28 minutes, 31 seconds, Ted Meyers

was fourth with a 29:11 and Richard
Moore was sixth with a 29:43.

Saturday, both the men’s and
women’s teams will travel to Norfolk
State. The men will compete against
Norfolk State and Roanoke College.
Last year, the Maroons were the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pions. The men’s team will not be
preparing in any special way this
week mainly because the course they
will be running on is slightly different
than W&L’s home course.

“The course is probably much flat-
ter than ours and we don’t always
know anything about our opponents,”’
said Miller.

The women’s team did not compete
this past Saturday when Emory and
Henry cancelled. This week, how-
ever, the team continued to practice
for their upcoming meet against Nor-
folk State. This week the team com-
peted against themselves in time
trials.

“The women’s team performed
well and the team is much improved
over last year,”’ said Miller.

school which Fallon praised as ‘“‘a
tournament-type team.” The Yellow
Jackets definitely ‘pose a real
threat,” he said.

Offensively, Fallon called Macon
ball carrier Remon Smith ‘‘one of the
finest backs we'll face. If he gets into
the secondary, and has a little bit of
running room, he can score from any
place on the field.... Given the oppor-
tunity, he can totally dominate a ball
game.” Fallon also praised quarter-
back Don Farmer. We’ve seen him
on film and have a great deal of
respect for his ability.”

The Yellow Jackets have a “really
sound”’ defensive squad, said Fallon,
noting that their defense has return-
ed interceptions for touchdowns and
recorded a safety already this
season. ‘‘They have a knack for put-
ting pressure on other offenses, get-
ting the ball turned over, and putting

 

 

i
By Perry 8. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

their offense in good scoring position.
We look for a really tough game for
our offensive because of this,” said
Fallon.

HASHMARKS—The Generals es-
caped from Centre without signifi-
cant injuries, according to Fallon....
Kickoff against Randolph-Macon will
be at 1:30. The Generals lead the
series, 18-14-2, including last year’s
31-19 win.... Macon QB Farmer has
been recently diagnosed as having
hepatitis and is listed as questionable
for Saturday’s game.... Because of
this touchdown against Centre,
Weaver is only two points shy of
Chris Cavalline’s school record for
career points, and only one touch-
down short of the school record for
career touchdowns, which Cavalline
also holds. Weaver has gained 100
yards or more in nine of his last ten
games....

Richmond edges Polo

 

By MATHEW HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team placed second in the Vir-
ginia State Championships held at Cy
Twombly Pool last weekend.

The Generals crushed Mary
Washington, 22-3, Friday night and
blew by the University of Virginia
Saturday morning, 29-3.

The University of Richmond also
defeated Mary Washington and
U.Va., setting the stage for yet
another W&L - Richmond showdown.

The Spiders edged the Generals,
13-11, in what head coach Page
Remillard called ‘‘a one-goal game.”’

Remillard said the Generals’ game
came apart in the third quarter.

“We had three guys just not get the
job done,”’ he said. “‘That changed a
lot of things.”’

The fourth quarter featured
spirited play with the Generals
matching points with the Spiders.
With less than 1:30 left in the game
and two goals down, Remillard put
sophomore Moose Herring in the
goal.

The strategy behind this move was
that Herring would allow W&L to
move a defensive player to the offen-

       
   
   
    

ewe ewww AAD ADA AAA DTZ ADA ZD LLL Z AZO LLL LL LO LLL DLE

Refrigerators
For Rent

New Hotpoint®
Refrigerators

Dorm Size

$42 Per Academic Year
463-3622

sive end of the pool.

“It’s like pulling the goalie in
hockey,”’ Remillard said. ‘It was a
great game, we just didn’t win.’”’ He
credited sophomores David Dietz
and David Reavy with outstanding
performances over the weekend.

Remillard emphasized that W&L is
gaining ground on Richmond. Last
year, the Spiders beat the Generals
in the same tournament 13-4.

“We plan on beating them (Rich-
mond) this weekend” at the first
round of the Southern League Tour-
nament, Remillard said.

Though the team has been improv-
ing, Remillard continued, crowd sup-
port ‘is worth at least two goals.”

He said the gallery carpet has been
changed and is no longer ‘‘an eyesore
and a danger to people’s clothing.”’

The Generals are scoring over 80
percent of their man-advantage
goals this year, Remillard said, up
from 60 percent last year.

Junior Craig Garneau designed a
T-shirt for the water polo team that
says ‘‘Sleep Tight Richmond” as a
light-hearted warning to the Spiders.

The Generals travel to George
Washington University this weekend
to compete against five teams in the
first round of the Southern League
Tournament.

 

30 N. Main Street

703-463-3020

 

 

The "
WILLSON- we
Lexington, Virginia 24450 W ALKER
HOUSE samt. Sess pay ni

Restaurant

i Enjoy our continuing 1986
Wednesday dinner.

Prime and Wine Special

8 oz. prime beef rib and glass of house white or red wine. House
salad, fresh vegetable, potato or rice included.

2 dinners for $19.86

t

 

 

oo

I.
t
bi] a
revere eh

 

 

 

 

 

 

sailed thaiaeeesaiaseiateiadameatiammaaianemsiemnbaiummretan emma ieee
 

 

 

 

“BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 2, 1986

 

General Public set to play Homecoming

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

British pop group General Public
has been signed as this year’s main
attraction at the annual Homecom-
ing concert, according to Student Ac-
tivities Board Chairman Glynn Alex-
ander. The concert will be held at the
Student Activities Pavillion on Oc-
tober 17 and tickets will be $8.

The Buddy System, an up and com-
ing band from Boston, is the tentative
opening act, although Alexander said
that this was still ‘‘up in the air.”’

At this time, it has not been decided
whether or not beer will be sold at the
concert, Alexander said.

“We're meeting with the ABC
(Alcoholic Beverage Control Board)
this week,’ Alexander said. ‘I’m not
really sure how the Administration
will stand on this. They might just not
let us do it. Right now, we’re kind of
in limbo.”

ABC law maintains that anyone
born on or before July 2, 1966 can
drink beer. Anyone born after this
date cannot purchase beer until he or
she turns twenty-one. Alexander said
that approximately fifty percent of
the student body is legal, and this will
have a bearing on the ABC’s decision
to grant the SAB an alcohol license
for events at the pavillion.

“If we can’t sell beer, it will
definitely hurt our business,’”’ Alex-
ander said. ‘‘The people who don’t
like the band and who would normal-
ly go just to drink and have a good
time probably won't go this year.”’

General Public consists of two
former members of the popular ska
band, the (English) Beat. Both Dave
Wakeling and Ranking Roger handl-
ed most of the lead vocal work in the
Beat, while Wakeling was, by and
large, the band’s principal song-
writer (although the songs were
credited to the band as a whole).
General Public picks up where the
Beat left off, concentrating on the
bright, lush pop of the Beat’s
“Special Beat Service’ LP and shy-
ing away from the leftist politics of
the ‘‘Wha’appen?”’ and ‘“‘Just Can’t
Stop It”’ records.

General Public will feature songs
from their forthcoming record,
which, Alexander said, was recently
previewed in New York and received
enthusiastic response from critics.

Alexander said the SAB is looking
into signing up-and-coming comed-
ians for performances at the Student
Activities Pavillion.

In addition, they are also looking
into the possibility of attracting bet-
ter known performers such as Steven
Wright, Sam Henison and Billy
Crystal. Because of the larger price

these comics demand, Alexander
said these performances might be
held at the Virginia Military In-
stitute’s Cameron Hall. The tickets
sales would be split with VMI.

held five years ago for a perfor-
mance by the Atlanta Rhythm Sec-
mance by the Atlanta Rhythm Sec-
tion. Since then, nothing of this
nature has been attempted.

Alexander said he doesn’t forsee
any problems as of yet. ‘“‘Just so long
as people don’t get too rowdy,”’ he ad-
ded.

The SAB hopes to liven up Friday
afternoon Happy Hour at the Gen-
eral’s Headquarters by providing
live entertainment, Alexander said.
Ideally, there would be no cover
charge, although a ‘‘minimal’’ cover
may be required.

Moreover, Alexander plans to book
a jazz band for Parent’s Weekend in
hopes of offering students an oppor-
tunity to take their parents to the
GHQ.

Thus far, attendance at Wednesday
GHQ performances has been good,
despite the new drinking laws, Alex-
ander said. However, he maintained
that this was probably due to the
popularity of Heinsohn and Day and
the Little Saints.

As far as the rest of the year is con-
cerned, Alexander said, ‘“‘We’ll just
wait and see.”

 

 

 

 

By David Bailey /Rolling Stone

Dave Wakeling (left) and Ranking Roger of General Public.

Talking Heads: Great expectations?

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

Perhaps my expectations of Talk-
ing Heads have been blown complete-
ly out of proportion. Or perhaps the
Heads have spoiled me. With each
new record, they surprised, intrigued
and challanged us. In the space of
five or six years, they went from New
Wave Nerds to artsy African funk-
sters and ended up pushing that
fragile bubble we call American pop
music past limits no one even knew
existed. They pioneered the pop
video revolution, were largely
responsible for the current
black/white crossover status of to-
day’s Top 40, and made the best con-
cert film known to man. So, we right-
ly expect a great deal; the question is
whether we expect too much.

Their new record, ‘‘True Stories,”’
is admittedly a very polished, well-
crafted effort that, by any other ar-
tist, would be something to be proud
of. Why then does it sound like such a
disappointment?

Primarily because it is nothing for
a talent like Talking Heads to churn
out well-crafted ear candy. ‘‘True
Stories” is nothing more than a flex
of the muscle for this band — a testa-
ment to their keen commercial
sense, if nothing else. Much of this
music seems to pick up where last
year’s highly successful “Little
Creatures” LP left off, the main dif-
ference being that the quirky eccen-
tricity of ‘‘Creatures” has been filed
away in favor of a more straight-
forward approach.

The album’s first single, ‘Wild
Nild Life,” is the most glaring exam-
dle of this. The track is basically a
‘eworking of last year’s ‘And She

Was,”’ right down to lead singer
David Byrne’s charateristic yelps
and yodels. It is all hooks and nifty
little guitar figures. There is nothing
particularly interesting, however,
about the whole affair; nothing that
makes the listener stop and wonder,
‘Now why did they do that?”’ Which
was not the case in ‘‘And She Was.”

“People Like Us” is another foray
into country music, but unlike last
year’s ‘‘Creatures Of Love,”’ this new
track isn’t funny, goofy, or wise. In-
stead, it seems to be regrettably
straight-forward. It even opens with
the lines, ‘‘In 1950 when I was
born/Papa couldn’t afford to buy us
much.”’ Where’s Dolly Parton when
you need her?

Side one does have its moments,
though. “Love For Sale” is a jaunty
rocker with enough weird vocal in-
flections from Byrne to keep it in-
teresting. It also signals one of the
record’s primary themes in its open-
ing line: “‘I was born in a house with
the television on.” “Papa Legba”
sounds like an out take from the ‘‘Re-
main In Light” album, although the
African influences has been brighten-
ed considerably in order to maximize
sales potential.

Most of the tracks on “True
Stories’ explore the world of
dreams, the place of history, and
children’s view of the world (another
hold-over from “‘Little Creatures’’).
“Puzzlin’ Evidence” is a gospel-
influenced romp that examines,
among other things, the media, while
“Hey Now” is a_calypso-tinged
number that has Byrne playing the
part of a young, wide-eyed child.
These tracks entertain, but they cer-
tainly don’t challenge. Whatever im-
portant ideas Byrne seems to be try-
ing to get across are lost in the over-
entusiastic arrangements.

Apparently, the songs on ‘True
Stories” were written for a movie of
the same name, although the ver-
sions on the record are not the ver-
sions that will appear in the film.
Perhaps these songs will gain new
power when they are reinterpreted
by the actors in the film (and thus
freed from the confines of the Heads
new commercial sense). And, again,

perhaps I am expecting too much.
Whatever the case may be, “True
Stories” is the first Talking Heads
album that does not usher in a new
standard and it is also the first Heads
album that I did not find fascinating.
And is it not strange that “True
Stories” will probably be this band’s
biggest seller? Apparently, it is time
to go back to the underground.

WLUR rock playlist

Top 10 albums

1. The Smithereens ‘‘Especially For You”’

2. Woodentops ‘‘Giant”’
3. James ‘‘Stutter’’

4, Easterhouse ‘The World By Storm”
6. Timbuk 3 “Greetings From...”
7. Gene Loves Jezebel ‘‘Discover”’

8. R.E.M. “Lifes Rich Pagaent”

9. The Smiths ‘‘The Queen Is Dead”’

10. The Cure ‘‘On The Beach”

Top 10 tracks
1. Timbuk 3 “The Future’s So Bright I Have To Wear

Shades”
2. The Cure ‘“‘Boys Don’t Cry”

3. Red Lorry Yellow Lorry ‘‘Walking On Your Hands”
4. The Housemartins ‘‘Happy Hour’

5. Doctor and the Medics ‘‘Spirit In The Sky”’

6. Smithereens ‘‘Behind The Wall of Sleep”’

7. Gene Loves Jezebel ‘‘Heartache”’

8. James “So Many Ways”’

9. Three Johns ‘‘Demon Drink’

10. The Smiths ‘‘Big Mouth Strikes Again”’

As of the week ending 9/28/86

Compiled by JOHN KALITKA — WLUR

 

 

 

Geta

 

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 2
3 p.m. — WORKSHOP: Identifying Career Alternatives, Room 109,
University Center.
4-6 p.m. — UNIVERSITY WOMEN’S GROUP Annual Tea at the Lee
House.
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: “Computer Simulations in
Chemistry: Keeping up with the Leonard-Joneses.” Dr. Steven G.
Desjardins, W&L Chemistry Dept. Room 401, Howe Hall. Tea at 4:30in
Room 402.
7:30 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: Nanook of the North. Room 203,
Reid Hall.

Friday, October 3
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: “‘Confidentially Yours.” Classroom
A, Lewis Hall. Public Invited.

Saturday, October 4
1:30 p.m. — FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon, Wilson
Field.
3p.m. — SOCCER: Generals vs. Greensboro College, Smith Field.
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Confidentially Yours.” Classroom
A, Lewis Hall. Public invited.

Monday, October 6
7 p.m. — WORKSHOP: Applying to Graduate School. Room 109,
University Center.
8 p.m. — TELFORD LECTURE: “Beyond the Measurig Rod of Mon-
dy.” Mancur Olson, professor of economics, University of Maryland.
Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

Tuesday, October 7
4 p.m. — RESUME WRITING WORKSHOP. Room 109, University
Center.
7&9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: The Gold Rush. Room 203, Reid
Hall.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: Vienna Schubert Trio. Lee Chapel (W&L Con-
cert Guild).

Wednesday, October 8
ALL DAY — SYMPOSIUM: “‘Art and Architecture of Washington and
Lee University in the 19th Century.”’ Lee Chapel.
12:30 p.m. — The Morris House Dedication. Front Campus.
1p.m. — Dedication Luncheon on the Lawn, Front Gampus.
3p.m. — WORKSHOP: Interviewing Techniques, Room 109, Universi-
ty Center.
9 p.m. — CONCERT: Boneshakers. GHQ Tavern. Admission charge.

     
   
  
 

CLASSIS S ISS SSIS SS SS SSI SI IN -« =

go to the Phi

Write for the £90:
Q. office at 7:30

(SLLLLLSLLLSLLLLSLS ALLS LSS SSL ILS LSILVSIDISLSSSSLSSS ISA

am interested? Then

Hee ne

 

 

 

 

Call NOW about holiday travel -
we accept major credit cards and
will bill home.

60-minute
KIS,

 

Lexington Lighting
and Electric Supply
Robert E. Lee Hotel

=

1964 Corvette Stingray converti- :
ble. 327/300 4-speed. Original.
Numbers match. Mechanically
sound, needs paint and carpet.

ARORA

S

ALL SERVICES ARE FREE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Building S 463-7932 after 6:00 p.m.
_ 26 South Main St. :
21 W Washington St Lexington, Virginia 24450 S
. . 463-9338
463-7174 Arway Kirby, Jr a

 

 

 

   
 
   
   

 

"©
yo

corner

CAL y GRIVERS 7,
X CLEANERS
| 463-3622
CLASS See us for all
PICTURES

your alteration needs.
will be taken the week

 

No more waiting days for your prints to come.
Bradshaw gives you picture-perfect prints in just 60
minutes. Extra prints and enlargements take just
minutes. We use Kodak paper exclusively. What’s
more, we doit all in our store with the revolutionary
new Kis 1-Hour Photo Processor. In only 60 minutes,
it turns your 110, 126, 135 and disc film into memories
that last a lifetime.

 

7N., Jefferson

EAS7 LEX

 

 

 

 

 

 

f O t b 13 18 Phone: 463-3614 US 11 North ‘til midnite
x or UCToper 1[3-18. ,
THOMAS C. BRADSHAW II RTD Hitt iach soa esc ck ves oeses dee s7%
rr an ace” Mini Lab Natty BO tong Necks—Case .........00cccceeeeeeeees $577
is a e e i $
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 : ate Times will be posted later. Olympia 6 pk.—1202. cans... cccessccscceees a

 

 

 

ee

 
