 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Frat charade

 

Page 4

Atkins speaks
to the IFC

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 13

 

Yee WMIVErsi YT
4 @® LEE LU
LEXINGTON, VA.

WAGHINGTO!

AN

 

Record parade

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The ten best
albums of ’86

he Ring-tum Phi

 

   

 

Your Weekend Weather

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Partly cloudy Fri.-Sun.;
Chance of precipitation

 
   

JANUARY 8, 1987

 

 

GENERAL
NOTES

 

I’m only a bill

All those interested in becoming
a delegate to the 1987 Washington
and Lee Constitutional Convention
should contact the appropriate
state chairmen no later than Fri-
day, January 16. Lists of state
chairman are posted around cam-
pus.

Sittin’ here on
Capitol Hill

Students interested in a six
credit internship course with con-
gress please contact Professor
Connelly in the Politics Depart-
ment, Room 108 of the Commerce
School. The deadline for applica-
tion is January 16.

Executive intern

Students interested in an intern-
ship with The Presidential Ad-
vance Office during the spring
term or the summer with the
Presidential Advance Office con-
tact Professor Connelly in the
Politics Department, Room 108 of
the Commerce School by January
26th.

Risky Business

The Association of Collegiate
Entrepreneurs will conduct a
meeting on Monday, Janiiary 12 in
room 121 at 5 p.m. in the Com-
merce Building. We will be
discussing potential profitable
projects for those who have in-
itiative. We must also develop re-
lationships with the other ACE
chapters in the region. Meetings
will be held every Monday from
now on.

Foreign film

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of ‘‘Erendira”’ (Mex-
ico/Brazil, 1982), directed by Ruy
Guerra. Showings will be at 8:00
p.m. on Friday 9 January and
Saturday 10 January in Classroom
“A” in Lewis Hall. There is no
charge for admission. The film is
in Spanish, with English subtitles.
This fantastic and colorful tale is
both terror and black comedy,
and the film features a truly
monstrous performancy by the
great Greek actress Irene Papas.

Barbell talk

There will be an organizational
meeting of the Barbell Club Tues-
day, January 13 at 7 p.m. in the
gymnasium classroom.

Not just a job...

Scholarship applications are
now being taken for 2 & 3 year full
tuition ROTC Scholarships. For
more information see Capt. Ran-
dy Hill, MS Dept. 8485.

Banner support

Freshman are encouraged to
participate in the Freshman hall
banner contest for this Saturday’s
basketball game. Support the
Generals in the W&L Invitation.
The hall with the best banner wins
a free catered dinner in Evans
Dining Hall.

Smile!

Senior pictures begin next
week. Sign up schedule and in-
struction sheets are in the Co-op.
Sign up early.

Apply now

Anyone interested in applying
for a dormitory counselor position
can pick up an application in Dean
Huntley’s office.

 

 

 

Cn IES pgs “Svante Senet om nt

 

By JOHN
News Editor

 

Washington and Lee ranks high
among the 550 educational institu-
tions around the United States for
providing leading business ex-
ecutives.

In 1985 The Financial and Ecnomic
Information Company in conjunction
with Standard and Poor’s released
their ‘Executive College Sur-
vey’’which listed the number of
leading business executives coming
from each edcucational institution. A
leading business executive is defined
as presidents, vice presidents and
directors of companies. No other
demographic data was included in
the survey, according toa release put
out by the company.

“The present study represents an
effort to provide an accurate ranking
of the institutions in the “Ex-
ecutive/College Survey’ based on
the ratio of their business leaders
with undergraduate degrees and
average numbers of bachelor’s
degrees presented yearly. This ratio
will provide a more realistic and

statistically sound method of assess-
ing an institution’s contribution to the
business community than provided
by the Poor’s Register (which did not
account for the size of an institu-
tion).”’

The business-to-graduate ratio was
found by dividing the number of ex-
ecutives listed in the 1985 survey by
the average number of bachelors
degrees presented between the
1972-73 and the 1982-83 academic
years for each institution. The center
for Education Statistics has no data
prior to 1972.

W&L ranks eighth in the survey,
directly following M.1.T. and directly
preceeding California Institute of
Technology and Cornell University.

The Virginia Military Institute, the
only state school on the list ranks 23
and Hampden-Sydney College ranks
52; no other Virginia college or
university was ranked in the top 56
schools.

In the 1985 survey, W&L is ranked
fourth among private, four-year, pri-
marily undergraduate institutions
with undergraduate enrollment less
than 3,000.

Pseudo student
arrested for theft

 

By ABB JONES
Staff Reporter

 

Ending a crime spree that ap-
parently lasted for almost three
months, the Lexington police depart-

|.ment recently apprehended a
suspect. On Decemeber 17, Perry

Hayes, 19, of Lexington, was ap-
prehended for questioning and subse-
quently arrested on charges of Grand
and Petty Larceny, regarding the
thefts of belongings of numerous
Washington and Lee
undergraduates. Wallets, cassette
tape players, cassette tapes, cash,
clothing, binoculars, and pen and
pencil sets were among the items
confiscated by officers following
Hayes’ arrest.

According to arresting officer
Lieutenant Bruce Beard, Hayes now
faces four charges of larceny;
several other charges are still pen-
ding. The police first became aware
of the connection between Hayes and
the thefts after receiving matching
descriptions from students. Beard
said that he believed the reason
Hayes escaped detection for so long
was that he ‘‘appeared like a fellow
student,” and was therefore largely
unnoticed on campus.

Hayes apparently had been living
on-campus during the time the
crimes were committed; several
students spotted him sleeping in the
library, Reid Hall, and the dormitory
lounges, and eating in the dining hall,
where he apparently had presented
himself as a freshman. One person
who noticed Hayes frequently in the
Reid Hall library was sophomore
Mike Shady, who said, ‘‘When I first
met him, I knew something was sus-
picious.”

Head Dormitory Counselor Jeff
Mandak said he first became sus-
picious of Hayes’ presence in the
dorms when he discovered Hayes
sleeping in the Graham-Lees Dor-

mitory television lounge. Mandak
claimed that upon asking Hayes if he
was a student at Washington and
Lee, Hayes replied that he was atten-
ding the university on the GI bill, a
program by which the federal gov-
ernment funds the combined educa-
tion of those who attend college after
leaving the armed forces:

Two weeks later, during Fall Term
exam week, Mandak discovered that
one of the freshmen residing on his
hall had let Hayes move into his
room. When a sudden increase in
thefts appeared in the dorms, Man-
dak and another dorm counselor, Jay
Gorlowski, inquired with the reg-
istrar about Hayes.

Hayes claimed he was just waiting
for Dean Huntley to get him a room.
Mandak and Gorlowski, upon visiting
the room Hayes was occupying, dis-
covered such items as ROTC equip-
ment, stereo equipment, cassette
tape players, cassette tapes, and
clothing, in addition to others.

Mandak alerted University Proc-
tor Charles ‘Murph’ Murray, who,
along with Beard, questioned Hayes,
and after his arrest, confiscated the
merchandise. According to Mandak,
prior to the arrival of the police,
several students, upon learning the
whereabouts of the stolen belongings,
reclaimed them before the police
reclaimed them from the room.

Hayes will be arraigned on
January 27, ‘‘to allow all of the
students who were prosecuting to be
present,” according to Beard. At this
time, Hayes and attorney David Nat-
kins will enter his plea of either
“guilty” or ‘‘not guilty.”’

Lieutenant Beard and Proctor
Murray have both noted that many of
the stolen articles have yet to be
claimed, and they have encouraged
all persons who have noticed missing
articles since late September to con-
tact the Lexington Police depart-
ment.

  

By JOHN PENSEC
News Editor

Washington and Lee, which is
among the nation’s ‘‘choosiest col-
leges,”’ according to a survey
released by USA Today, is enjoy-
ing a record-setting year in ad-
missions for the class of 1991.

One month before the final
deadline for application, the W&L
admissions office has received
more than 2,662 applications.
William Hartog, director of ad-
missions, expects to receive in ex-
cess of 3,000 applications by the
February 1 deadline for the 410
freshman places.

Last year the admissions office
received a total of 2,417 applica-
tions, 222 applications less than
the record-setting 2,639 applica-
tions received during the 1985-86
academic year.

It was data from the 1985-86
academic year that was used by
USA Today in its survey. In the
report, released December 15,
W&L ranked 23rd among the na-
tion’s colleges and universities
that accepted less than half of the

 

 

USA Today says W&L ‘choosy’

applicants and had and average
freshman SAT score of 1200 out of
1600.

W&L accepted 33.6 percent of
the 2,639 students who applied for
admission to the class of 1989, the
first class in which women were
enrolled at W&L as undergrad-
uates. W&L was also the second
least expensive private institution
included in the survey.

W&L’s appeal to seniors is also
reflected in the number of
students who have applied for ear-
ly admission. The admissions of-
fice received 301 applications
from 30 states and two foreign
countries for early decision, a 40
percent increase over last year.
For the class of 1989, the admis-
sions office received 210 applica-
tions for early decision.

“We are doing well in admis-
sions because our current
students are positive about all
aspects about the education of-
fered here,” Hartog said. ‘“‘There
is a direct correlation between the
popularity of the school and the
experiences of its current

WéLranked 8th in national survey

students.”

Hartog pointed to the high
percentage of students who re-
main at W&L after freshman year
as an indication of the school’s
popularity with students. Accord-
ing to Scott Dittman, university
registrar, 392 freshmen of last
year’s class of 410 returned for
their sophomore year at W&L, a
retention rate of 96 percent.

“IT tie it to the favorable ex-
periences of the coeducated
classes,’ Hartog said. “The high
retention rate says to counselors,
parents and students that ‘Coedu-
cation is working at Washington
and Lee.’ ”

In addition to the large increase
in the number of applications, the
admissions office has interviewed
more students on campus this
year than ever before. Through
December 1 the admissions office
had interviewed 1,470 high school
students. That compares with
1,170 during the same period last
academic year and 981 interviews
for the first coed undergraduate
class.

 

 

 

4

  

Does

Marion G. ‘‘Pat’’ Robertson has his picture taken by
Time magazine photographer Michael Evans for a
story on potential presidential candidates. Robertson is

 

Z E Soe aa
a Pe ; can it

he have a praye

Lee, graduating in 1950. Claudia Schwab, a photograph-
er for the News-Gazette, records the scene for the local

r?

paper.

a native of Lexington and attended Washington and

Concert nets huge loss

 

By VALERIE PIERSON
Staff Reporter

 

At the Executive Committee
meeting Monday night, Student Ac-
tivities Board treasurer Greg Knapp
reported that the Spinners concert
resulted in a net loss of $17,000. Poor
student participation was cited as the
primary reason for this loss.

Executive Director Sean Coyle
stated that the SAB selected the best
band available for the weekend.
However, he explained that in a
previous appearance at W&L, the
Spinners only played for a short

ee
FALL TERM GRADES

 

re aw

+2.

re 1.0

Juniors 2.627

 

 

 

Seniors 2.873

*
a

Sophomores 2.699
Freshmen 2.569

 

 

 

2 Flies GEIS <i dee I? TSS

Fraternity 2.582
All students 2.682

 

 

Non-fraternity 2.865

Ti aa TS - Wsous

 

a...ount of time. As a result, Coyle
believes many upperclassmen were
not interested in seeing them per-
form again .or fear of another short
concert.

Jay Markley, also a member of the
SAB, said that the SAB has sponsored
two of its best concerts recently, and
student turnout has been minimal.
He stated, ‘‘We’ve had fantastic con-
certs, and nobody has come.”’

Markley added that more promo-
tion and better publicity might be
possible solutions for successful con-
certs in the future. He explained that
it is difficult to obtain the more well-

     

known bands because most of the
time the SAB has to work with just
one date, and available bands are
very limited.

SAB Chairman Glynn Alexander
told the EC that he is considering
several options in planning any
future concerts. Included among
these would be to attract more
popular bands which would appeal to
more people. These bands would cost
more, so there would be fewer con-
certs.

At the request of the EC, the SAB
will re-evaluate its financial situation
and submit a revised budget next
week for approval by the EC.

GPA’s increase
from previous year

 

y CHRISTIE CHAMPLIN
Staff Reporter

 

The grade point average last term
for all students increased slightly
over last year’s fall term, moving
from a 2.640 to a 2.682. Both indepen-
dent and fraternity GPA’s were
higher this year.

The GPA for fraternity members
this term was 2.582 as compared to
2.572 last year; comparitively, the in-
dependent GPA rose from a 2.766 toa
2.865. The seniors led the class GPA
with 2.873. Next were the non-degree
students with 2.859; sophomores,
2.699; juniors, 2.627; and freshmen
2.569. The seniors decreased from
last year’s 2.913 while all other
classes increased.

Of the thirty three GPA’s equalling
or exceeding 4.0, seventeen were

SE SI

ieee
<LjS A

from the sophomore class. School
Registrar Scott Dittman said that
there had been a problem with the
calculation of the Honor Roll and
Dean’s List this term so more
students might be added in the
future.

There were many’ changes in
fraternity GPA’s from last year. The
top five GPA’s are Lambda Chi
Alpha, 2.797; Zeta Beta Tau, 2.762;
Kappa Alpha, 2.724; Chi Psi, 2.681;
and Phi Kappa Psi, 2.674.

The remaining fraternities are Pi
Kappa Alpha, 2.643; Sigma Nu, 2.636;
Pi Kappa Phi, 2.613; Phi Gamma
Delta 2.584; Sigma Chi, 2.560; Phi
Delta Theta, 2.541; Kappa Sigma,
2.528; Beta Theta Pi, 2.508; Phi Kap-
pa Sigma, 2.496; Sigma Phi Epsilon
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 2.486; and
Delta Tau Delta, 2.194.

a SSS eee Sa ae

eb oe eS
 

 

OPINION
Big names

At Monday’s E.C. meeting the SAB reported a $17,000 loss
from the Christmas concert featuring the Spinners. SAB
Chairman Glynn Alexander explained that the SAB has two
choices in scheduling concerts. It could schedule smaller
name bands that cost approximately $8,000, attract smaller
crowds and lose about $3,000 per concert. The other alter-
native is to engage more well-known bands costing roughly
$30,000 each, pack the pavilion and lose $12,000 per concert. It
is a choice of having many small concerts or a few big ones.

In this case, the old cliche that bigger is better holds true. It
is better to bring ‘‘big name” bands to just a few concerts
that the majority of the university will attend, than many
sparsely attended concerts.

“Bigger name”’ concerts will benefit students is by pro-
viding a chance to see these bands in a beiMing smaller than
an arena or civic center. The pavilion may be crowded when
filled to capacity, but it is still possible to see members of the
band, rather than just dots on a stage.

There is a drawback in that students will inevitably pay
more for tickets after standing in longer lines. However, both
the prices and the lines will probably be smaller than they
would be for the same groups when they appear off-campus.

The SAB should take the suggestion of Sophomore EC Re-
presentative Christopher De Movellan and schedule concerts
for weekends that aren’t big fraternity weekends. This would
liven up some weekends during which everyone laments
“There’s nothing to do!” Scheduling concerts for usually

magenta weekends would probably increase ticket sales as

The SAB expects to take a loss when it puts on a concert.
However, it seems reasonable to expect the receipts of a con-
cert to cover at least half of the costs. Fewer concerts featur-
ing bigger name groups will hopefully ensure that the SAB
doesn’t suffer a loss similar to the one incurred from the re-
cent Christmas Concert.

Be aware

The recent arrest of a young man who had been living in

and allegedly stealing from the dorms is enough to give dorm

residents insomnia. This person managed to live for three
months, sleeping in the library and dorms and eating in the
dining hall, before being detected. How could this have hap-
pened? Are the residents really so blind or involved in classes
or extracurricular activities not to notice a strange man
hanging out in the dorms?

A few months ago, another man roamed around Baker Dor-
mitory. One woman resident saw him coming out of another
resident’s open unoccupied room. The student called security
who came and removed the man who was trespassing. The
scary aspéct of the whole incident was that the man had
browsed the resident’s room long enough to learn the
resident’s name. It appears he had been through the dorms
on several seperate occasions.

Our Honor System, allowing W&L students so much
freedom, also has the unfortunate effect of leaving us quite
vulnerable to those outside of the system. Dorm rooms are
regularly left unlocked, and doors are often left standing
open with valuables in plain sight. Students seeing a strange
person in the dorms often assume the best and suspect the un-
familiar person is a pizza delivery person, one of the workers
from the Gaines Hall construction site in search of a soft
drink machine, or perhaps some out-of-town visitor in search
of a resident.

Security could be increased in an attempt to take care of
this problem. Perhaps students should carry a pass key to get
into the dorms, or show their student i.d. to a guard at the
door, but attempts to solve the problem create greater pro-
blems of their own. Students at universities that use such
systems often end up with many students locked out of their
dorms. This is very likely a greater hassle than it’s worth.

W&L security may be somewhat limited in manpower, but
they do an exceptional job. There is always someone at the
switchboard. A security officer arrives promptly, even when
it is only to open a locked door.

The only way to prevent persons not of the W&L communi-
ty from taking advantage of students is for students
themselves to become more conscious of stragers around the
dorms. If someone is behaving suspiciously, call security.
From the recent arrest of the young man who was allegedly
stealing from the dorms, we must all realize it’s better to be
safe than sorry.

 

 
  

For The Record

The Ring-tum Phi takes responsibility for all editorials appearing in its
editorial column. An unsigned editorial, one that is not followed by any in-
itials, is the opinion of the entire editorial board, namely Sean Bugg, John
Pensec, Marie Dunne. A signed editorial is the opinion of a particular
the editorial board and is followed by the writer’s initials

The Ring-tum Phi, January 8, 1987

 

IVs

|

 

 

 

{yy
Ww

Ny
WY
Hy
WY)

ATU
ih; rN
LAA M INVA ys
reid Wy

|
}

YY

¢

i

Yh iy

 

 

 

et Inatantly Metamorphosed Banker?

 

 
   
    

 

 

 

NEWS STAFF

Wins ici sakes cede iis cusnnssscecscveses0dtdeUlCicbasstuseaceeteies Sean Bugg
POTN I nnn ccccccaspnerccccacccscaccescvecrecquesscesessocessecs John Pensec
Managing Editer, Entertainment Editer................6..000cedees Marshall Boswell
GPR NE obese ccetbrcscndscesdevcasccecesesccsovevscsesosecee David Emrich
We IIIs o 5 coivis cheer c tac cc tscccitedieds iceedcnsacdves usher Perry Hayes
pT eee Ee er ere errr Mike Shady
PEN 5 sv bei eeisciredectecesssthenivisiicieveGesra Steve Pockrass
EDITORIAL PAGE

gg ae Marie Dunne
MN oie rs cb Rae ssh ck cei hc i ccseee FERN EA Reid ee cett ed Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF

a Greg Turley
PAVE AIAG voce ster ieccerccsccccccnscvenevcescesocvesrvous Robert Jones
COOMMUE MEONEENE. 6 oc occccccccvcesedcsccccsccveccceccesseseces Mathew Horridge

The Ring-tam Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Beard elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
ts otherwise independent.

Letters te the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 890, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

W&L coed reacts to Smith’s stereotyping

To The Editors:

Paul Smith’s My View that ran under the
headline ‘‘Coeds are not liberal”’ in the last edi-
tion of the Phi should be a lesson to us all on the
evils of the dreaded stereotype. Mr. Smith seems
to be quite an authority, if only self-proclaimed,
on the typical W&L student and particularly on
the typical W&L coed, I find the latter claim par-
ticularly interesting considering the fact that
none of the twenty or so coeds with whom I
discussed Mr. Smith’s opinion in the two days
after it was published had ever heard of him,
much less met him. I confess I am interested in
meeting the person who knows so much about
my psyche and those of my female classmates
that he is able to assert that we are ‘‘insecure,”
“characterized by a burning desire to succeed”’
and motivated ‘‘not so much by a passion to
learn as by (our) ambitions to compete alongside
(our) male counterpart(s)”’.

This characterization is so insulting that it
almost does not warrant response. Who is Mr.
Smith to pronounce our motives unfit or even to
pronounce them at all? Any woman who came to
W&L to ‘‘prove”’ herself would undoubtedly be
unhappy as she would be anywhere else. She
would be an immature and poorly-adjusted in-
dividual. In general I find W&L women, and I
seem to know more of them than Mr. Smith does,
very well adjusted to the academically stimu-
lating environment that some people seem to
forget was academically stimulating before
coeducation.

I resent being stereotyped. I was taught the
fallacy of stereotypes in an eighth grade class. A
group of women as small and diverse as the
women at W&L cannot be stereotyped with any
accuracy, especially if one does not even know
them.

In addition, Mr. Smith stereotypes the typical
W&L student whose ‘“‘life is one big bow] of cher-
ries’. He decries an environment in which ‘‘the
greater issues of our day never get debated, the
bigger questions...never get asked.” Although I
will grant that many students at W&L are privi-
leged enough not to have to worry about financial
considerations, I do not believe that financial
security breeds moral unawareness. College is
not the real world: it is the training ground upon
which, one hopes we acquire the skills to allow us
to improve the state of our world after we leave
college. I, too, wish that certain segments of the
W&L community were less apathetic but pro-
jects such as Superdance and the Mock Conven-
tion not to mention our student government and
the honor system could not succeed without the
student support that they receive. In proportion
to the size of our student body, I would be willing
to bet that W&L students are more active in ex-
tracurricular activities than the students at most
other universities.

As far as the record after college is concerned,
the accomplishments of a long line of distin-
guished alumni stand in contrast to Mr. Smith’s
implication that material wealth is the only goal
of the typical W&L alum. I would hope that the
average alumnus of W&L is distinguished above
the average graduate of many colleges. Ethics is
a very important part of any education, and
ethical considerations arise in many classes out-
side of the Religion and Philosophy departments.

Finally, Mr. Smith ends with what I would
label a call to arms, a cry for action. Does he
want every W&L student to sign 5 petitions this
term? A much more realistic approach to im-
proving the world’s problems is to study the
situation in college and after joining the ‘real
world” to try to have an impact on the issue(s)
concerned. Results may not be immediate, but
actions, not words, solve problems. Decrying the
“hideous price-fixing schemes by our own book-
store’ in the same breath as ‘immoral decisions
by our Board of Trustees” is not going to im-
prove anything.

In addition, Mr. Smith is premature in judging
the impact of the Class of 1989 on the university.
The success of coeducation has been largely a
measure of the willingness of the students and
faculty to assimilate women and of the will-
ingness of W&L women to be assimilated. No
doubt the University would not have benefitted
from the addition of a bunch of militant ‘‘liberal”
women, I know that many women in my class
consider themselves liberal, as do many men,
and it is their perogative to doso.

Sometimes the best change is gradual change
through the status quo. At least give us four
years, not one, before judging us. A university is
not a static institution — it reflects the composi-
tion of its student body which is not always what
it appears to be at first glance. W&L will pro-
bably never be stereotyed as a “‘liberal’’ univer-

sity, but neither should it be stereotyped as Mr.
Smith has characterized it.

Holly Williams
Class of 1989

Darrell comments on Coke

To The Editor:

In spite of the information published in the Phi
there still seems to be some confusion about the
availability of canned Coca Cola on campus.
There are Coke machines located across cam-
pus; in the Warner Center, Parmly Hall and the
University Theater. In addition, I had written in-
to our agreement with the Pepsi Cola Company
that if I determined there is sufficient demand to
warrant it, we have the option of placing Classic
Coke in a couple of Pepsi machines on campus.
Classic Coke is now available, in addition to the
three locations aforementioned, in the Pepsi
= located in Reid Hall and Washington

Finally, I would like to clarify one of my
remarks as reported by Tom Brickel (Cola
Change 12/4) regarding the number of com-
plaints I had been receiving about vending
machines: What I said was, ‘By far and away, I
receive more complaints about malfunctioning
vending machines than I do about the food in all
three of our campus food service locations, com-
bined”’,

—Jerry Darrell
Director of Food Service

Easter Day travel criticized

To The Editor:

I don’t know if most of the student body is
aware yet, but the last day of our April break
falls on Easter Sunday. I don’t think the decision
to end break on that particular Sunday was made
with evil intentions on the part of the administra-
tion, but I am dissatisfied with the situation
nonetheless.

First, Easter Sunday is undeniably an impor-
tant religious holiday. An opportunity to worship
or observe Easter should not be restricted by the
time limitations imposed by the necessity of
returning to Lexington.

From personal experience, I believe Easter to
be a time when families and friends gather
together and visit, a sometimes infrequent op-

portunity.

Also, on holidays the frequency of plane flights
and rail and bus trips are generally reduced.
Transportation might pose a great hardship to
some members of the geographically diverse
student body.

What do we do about this issue? The most ob-
vious answer is to press the administration to
start Spring Term on that Tuesday. If anyone
else has any ideas on this matter it would be a
good idea to voice them now, before it is too late.

Steven R. Doran ’87

United Way drive successful

To The Editur

Your readers may have learned by now that
the Lexington-Rockbridge United Way met its
goal, by raising $111,292. At Washington & Lee
we not only met, but surpassed our goal of $21,500
by raising $23,029. Many individual volunteers on
campus made a special effort this year in help-
ing us reach our goal. On behalf of those who are
recipients of the generosity of the W&L com-
munity, we thank you. It does work — the United

Way!
Jerry Darrell
J. David Parker

Christmas tree appreciated

To the editors:

The Christmas tree in the lobby of the University
Library and the lights in the trees along the en-
trance plaza were much enjoyed and apprecia-
ted by the faculty and students according to com-
ments passed along to the library staff.

I would like to thank Alpha Phi Omega, and
specifically Douglas Harvey, Doug Turrell and
John Wiltse from that group, for the hours they
spent in searching for, chopping down and bring-
ing in the tree as well as hanging the lights. It is

such a pleasure to work with students who enjoy
contributing to the whole of the University com-
munity.

Sincerely,

Peggy Webster Hays
Public Services and Reference Librarian n

Senior laments destruction

To The Editor:

Recently a great deal of damage has been done
to the University owned lot on Nelson St. This is
the open ground behind fraternities on Washing-
ton St. The damage has been incurred by the
habit of driving over that ground for parking, to
turn around, for fun and to go from the top of the
hill to the bottom. Unfortunately there is no road
there. Unfortunately our students care less for
the property of others, which our tuition bills
maintain, than they do for their own cars.

Strangely, rather than expend effort to im-
prove the situation, the University has remained
blind, even unaware of the problem. We see con-
stant reminders of the University’s efforts to
control the student body and shape them in the
nice sort of W&L boys everyone wants to know.
This is most apparant in the school’s efforts to
curb student chemical use. We are barraged
with committees on drinking, and warnings
about drugs. Fraternities are repeatedly urged
to discourage drinking, to have parties only on
days allowed by the school, not to have beer in
kegs, and even to close their parties entirely.

Yet despite the harping about the morality of
drugs, the effort to make the student acceptable
and the effort to maintain some vague moral
standard, the school does not seem interested in
the hard fact of destruction of its property. A
close look will show that this sort of nonsense
goes on wether it is a sanctioned party night or
not. A closer look shows that student chemical
consumption, parties and personal life cannot be
enforced even by the Cheka, KGB and CIA to-
gether. A clear headed look suggests that the
school should cease trying to inject others with
its own strain of moral virus and look to protec-
ting its own property. Respect for private and
community property is a public matter and it
might be a lesson worth teaching. It might also
be enforcible.

W.W. Baber ’87

Klank’s view irks students

To Whom it may Concern:

Bob Dylan once wrote: “I can see that your
head has been twisted and fed by worthless foam
from the mouth.” Mr. Klank’s self-righteous
view of public affection has captured the essence
of ‘‘worthless foam.’’ His article stated, ‘“‘At an
institution of higher learning, one would think
that the learning process would be the student’s
primary concern.”’ We find it quite ironic that
Mr. Klank’s “primary concern’’ seems to be
catching people in the act of being human rather
than using his time to reap the benefits of this in-
stitution. It is sad to hear that a person could be
so offended by human emotion, especially if he
lets himself be so offended by continuing to
watch closely and long enough to notice “french
style tongue kissing.” We cannot deny that
public displays of affection exist on campus, but
we have never been offended as though we had
some foggy notion of nineteenth century morali-
ty. We think that Mr. Klank should spend his
time worrying about and concentrating on his
education, which he says he is here for, and not
about harmless displays of emotion. If Mr. Klank
“knows pitiful rednecks who have more class”
perhaps he should be among them.

Clay Burns ’87
Vaughan Boone ’89
Pete Winfield ’87

More comment on Klank

To The Editors:
If ignorance is bliss, Ed Klank III must be a
happy guy.
Paul Schlimm ’87
Mike Carter ’87
Charlie “Flash” Groh ’87

 

 

Le RO RR aa UN MN, Aeraeth vies Casati 4%,

he

_—

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 8, 1987, Page 3

 

Take one of those little
Christmas candy canes, stick the
straight end ina pencil sharpener,
and crank that baby a few times.
Your finished product will resem-
ble one of Milton Colvin’s letters
to the Phi — short, sweet and to-
the-point.

Okay, so maybe that was a
weak attempt, but it’s true. In the
past few years, Colvin has laid
down class rules in the Phi. He’s
told us that the only time a lady
can chew gum and remain a lady
is on an airplane.

And on October 23, the 62-year-
old politics professor and foreign
policy expert dipped his candy
cane into a little Tabasco. ‘‘Why
doesn’t the Student Government
get the Students to pick up the lit-
ter; or buy a large playpen?” he
wrote.

At that time, party-related
trash had become a serious pro-
blem at Washington and Lee.
Even Brian Shaw, whose job it is
to bear good tidings from W&L to
the news media, mentioned that
on certain Sunday mornings, the
town looked like a junkyard
because of fraternal overin-
dulgence.

Throughout the fall term, trash
even became common on campus.
Just before break, I remember
picking my way past shattered
glass and empty beer cans around
the freshman dorms. Surely, it

 

SES RESET |

 

LEXICON

By Steve Pockrass

‘Tabasco tainted candy spear’

must’ve been the dreaded yeast-
and-hops fairy who dropped them
there, as beer isn’t allowed in the
quads under any circumstances.

In an interview just after his let-
ter was printed, Colvin had harsh
words for some students, calling
them ‘‘spoiled brats.’ He stressed
that it was not the majority of the
students who were trashing the
community, but those who did
were making a most unfavorable
impression in the community.

A second-generation W&L pro-
fessor and a Zeta Psi fraternity of-
ficer while a student at Yale, Col-
vin said the W&L campus had
changed in his years here. House
mothers are almost non-existent.
Few seniors live in the frat
houses. And there is a seeming
lack of pride or sense of decorum
among the fraternities, he said,
especially when they thoughtless-
ly ruin their own property.

“T think that my generation was
the Depression generation. We
can’t understand the destruction
of property,” Colvin said. ‘“‘And
the idea that you can pay for it is
no excuse.”

The drinking situation seems to
have changed, too, said Colvin,
who’s been teaching at W&L for 25
years. Just as a lady knows when
to chew her gum, a gentleman
knows how to hold his liquor. He
drinks and may even get drunk,
but he knows his limit. And cer-

tainly, a gentleman remembers
that as a guest, even if he’s
trashing himself, that doesn’t
given him a right to trash his com-
munity.

In an interview this week, Col-
vin said the trash problem had im-
proved. Perhaps he made an ef-
fective stab with his Tabasco-
tainted candy spear, although it
may have been that just as Rush
tapered, so did the frat money.

Personally, I’ve never been a
king of neatness. Many people can
attest to that. But I’ve never pitch-
ed my milk cartons in the street,
either, and many people can at-
test to that, too.

Keeping our community clean is
a problem we all must address.
The answer is not a new guideline
in the Interfraternity Council
bylaws requiring all frat mem-
bers to use personally engraved
mugs so we can trace the culprits.
It’s not a guideline requiring that
all beer mugs be tied with string
to the front doors of our frat
houses so we can pull them back
in after we pass out on the front
lawns, in the street, on the traffic
medians, or wherever.

The answer is for us — we, who
often refer to our campus as one of
the nation’s most beautiful —
police ourselves. That would be a
mighty fine New Year’s resolu-
tion.

 

 

Senior gets sentimental,
looks ahead to bright future

SR RN RR
MY VIEW

By Chris Carter

 

Living in Oklahoma and going to
school in Virginia, like most anything
I suppose, has its advantages and
disadvantages. On the minus side
there’s the twenty hour drive which
has the market on tedium completely
cornered. On the plus side there’s a
series of great rock stations along I-
40 that I always enjoy tuning into (in
the lingo of the 80’s ‘‘re’’ generation,
their music is referred to as
“classic” rock, but we all remember
what Billy Joel said about such
musical fads). With the long drive, I
can catch up really quickly on what
the nation is listening to. Even this
generally enjoyable attempt of mak-
ing the best of it has its problems,
however, since inevitably a song
that’s really great when you first
hear it in Little Rock is intolerable by
the time you get to Bristol. The worst
drive ever was when ‘‘Let’s Hear It
for the Boy”’ was setting the country
on fire — I thought we’d never get to
Oklahoma!
All the above is a rather round-
about way of getting around to what
will be a reflective piece by an overly
sentimental senior who realized
while he was at home over break that
he probably won’t spend so much
time (just two weeks?) at home
again for a long time — if ever. One
' of the big songs on the radio right
+ now is Bruce Hornsby’s piece with
_ the lines, “Some things never

change/That’s just the way it is.’’ No

 
 

Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

 

doubt Hu. asby is right, especially in
the context of his song, but as I
thought about the fact that I’ve less
than six months left here in Lex-
ington, his words were just the op-
posite of what I had been thinking.

They call it Reality Shock. Facing
the Real World. After four years of
parties and term papers, all nighters
and Fall Weekends, it’s time to hit
the daily grind of commuting and car
payments. Or else. it’s three or. four
more years of study.:— but this time it
really counts. Whether it’s torts or
cadaviers, keg parties and all-night
B.S. sessions go out the window.
What Christmas Break? If you’re
lucky you get Christmas Eve off. The
closest you may get to Mom and Dad
is a pushbutton phone.

So much for Senior fears. There’s
bound to be life after commence-
ment, but I suspect there’s several
like me who are some-what skeptical
of the whole affair. Except that what
senior isn’t also just dying to get out?
Things have already changed too
much in the last four years. When
you go home and find that your mom
now stores her out of season dresses
in your closet and that you can’t open
your dresser because your brother
has hidden your Christmas present in
there — that’s where I used to hide
his — you've already realized that
Home isn’t what it used to be. When
you rediscover curfews and family
schedules (I do laundry on Tues-
days!), you wonder if you want it to
be. Things may be changing more
than you thought, Bruce.

It’s not just at home though. Things
have changed here on campus as
well. I don’t mean things like
coeducation or the Honor System (for

an excellent essay along these lines I
heartily recommend Dr. Coulling’s
introduction to the new W&L Photo
Album); I’m talking about more per-
sonal things. Everything from get-
ting just a little bit bored with the old
party scene to wanting something a
little permanent in the way of one’s
love life to being really tired of hav-
ing to ask Dad for money. A large
number of your friends have grad-
uated and, all ofa sudden you find
that half the people you hang out with
don’t share your memories of
freshman and sophomore years.
They talk in psychology about some
stimuli which cause an ap-
proach/avoidance conflict. Welcome
to independence.

Some things don’t change — like
seniors who start getting sentimental
about graduating. W&L_hasn’t
changed that much; on the nine-
teenth of this month everybody will
gather in the Chapel for Founder’s
Day the way they have been doing
since the 1870’s. But I’ll bet the
seniors there will think just a little
sadly about how much things have
changed in the last four years while
wishing it didn’t have to be over so
soon. And then we'll all get over it
and go about our business, interview-
ing, applying, and not being able to
wait to get out, and generally making
plans for all kinds of changes. And I
realized this also when I was listen-
ing to the radio on I-40. One of the
other songs I heard expresses the
perfect counterpoint to Bruce Horn-
sby — Timbuk 3 sings “‘The future’s
so bright, I gotta wear shades.’’ One
of the things I’d been intending to do
with some of my Christmas money
was buy a new pair of sunglasses — I
think I'll get extra dark.

 

 

i
POM wih
OAM my ta

 

vg me. anes

 

 

National Student News Service

Naw York racism appalls student

 

MY VIEW
By Tom Brickel

 

Reality in this world continues to
amaze me. Events from Rio de
Janiero to Peking leave me dumb-
founded, for as open-minded and ‘‘ex-
perienced” as I try to convince
myself I am, so many things will jar
me in the course of ten pages of
newsprint. My astonishment runs the
gamut from natural disasters and
starvation, to terrorist tactics (one
must credit terrorists — the skill and
bravery which it takes to kill unarm-
ed, innocent citizens is unsurpassed
in this age of vanishing heroes).

However, when events meriting
considerable negative media atten-
tion occur in one’s own backyard,
cursory glances no longer suffice.
Disbelief and shock reign, and the
event’s stranglehold on a community
may last well beyond election
coverage.

Howard Beach, in New York City,
is no exception.

This community, nestled in Queens
near one of the country’s largest air-
ports, has been synonymous over the
past two weeks with hatred, racism,
and photo opportunities. The New
York Daily News, a terrible news-
paper in its own right, has been one of

many New York papers getting the
most out of coverage of the event in
which a black man was killed by a
car in an attempt to escape the
beatings of white youths.

I imagine coverage was limited in
other parts of the country, but that
would not diminish the tragedy, and
significance, of what transpired.
Michael Griffith was one of several
black men who had the misfortune of
eating pizza in a hostile white
neighborhood after their car broke
down- Upon leaving the pizzeria, the
men were set upon by a motley gang
of white teenagers who, armed with
baseball bats and sticks, chose to
creatively express their racism by
beating the men.

Griffith ran away, but due to the ef-
forts of his attackers to continue their
game, he escaped through a hole in a
fence and ran onto the Belt Parkway,
one of New York’s finest highways.
He was hit by a car and killed.

While time may reveal a connec-
tion between the highway accident
itself and the events which preceded
it, the beatings cannot be taken out of
context. Horrible in themselves, they
resulted in a murder. Ironically,
Griffith's death may not have been in
vain, for coverage given to the
beatings would have been extremely
curtailed had they not resulted in a
death.

Defenses for the three youths
charged with manslaughter rose to
the occasion. One defense placed | the

blame on the community of Howard
Beach. Howard Beach, being 98%
white (why does this percentage
seem familiar?), and harboring
some ill will towards non-whites, was
responsible for the beatings, and not
the youth, who was most certainly a
victim in his own right. Showing a
passing knowledge of current affairs,
the lawyer also suggested that the
defendant’s actions were influenced
by his South African ancestry.

A scarier defense was given for
another defendant: it proposed that
the black men were looking for trou-
ble when their car broke down in a
white neighborhood (this defendant,
incidentally, was alleged to have
stated in the pizzeria, “Let’s go kill
the niggers.” He later explained that
the term “‘kill’’ was meant loosely, in
spite of Griffith’s strict interpreta-
tion).

The community of Howard Beach,
as well as neighboring communities,
will probably spend much time ex-
amining themselves, for their local
media will not let the issue rest in the
near future. Time will not remove the
shock of the event, an event so close
to home when compared with remote
murders and stabbings in distant
boroughs and countries. It is a shame
that it takes a given proximity before
people truly feel the tragedy of tragic
events, whether caused by nature, or
by other men.

Howard Beach is reeling from the
_blow.. as should we all. a

esPii may cart «see

PE requirements called excessive

 

MY VIEW
By Abb Jones

Well, so begins another year,
another school term, and yet another
opportunity to ponder why Washing-
ton and Lee requires each student to
take five physical education courses
(the total of which equals one whole
credit) in order to graduate. I mean,
other schools don’t require 5 P.E.’s to
obtain a degree. (Not that we would
want to be like other colleges and
universities, but isn’t this a tad bit
excessive?) I am fully aware of the
fact that W&L is a college of liberal
arts, meaning graduates are ex-
pected to be educationally well-
rounded, having been exposed (at
least minimally) to science, math,
social sciences, art, and literature. I
can only assume that by having
students exposed to five P.E.
courses, they will have as much well-
roundedness physically as they do
educationally, even if it means tak-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Liz Smith, sophomore, Bassett,
+ Va.
“Someone who will uphold rules
while still tempering justice with
mercy.”’

 

Paul Abbott, senior, Richmond,
Va.

‘Maturity enough to guide the
freshman through their first year
at W&L.”’

 

Roth Kehoe, senior, New Orleans,
La.
“T think they should be men,”’

 

John Riordan, senior, Rhinebeck,
NY,

‘Maturity, willingness to
devote time to freshmen, ability to
handle problems. I think that sec-
ond one is the most important.”’

ing everything from cross-country
running, golf, and soccer, to canoe-
ing, basketball, and handball. Fine,
but isn’t requiring five pushing it?
W&L students already have a multi-
tude of requirements to worry about.
Why not ease up and require only,
say, three. (Sounds pretty good to
me.)

This first idea I propose is simple.
Less course requirements in P.E.
would lighten the load for everyone,
students and P.E. teachers (who
could concentrate more on the varsi-
ty team sports), without causing ir-
reparable damage to the physical
well-being of the student body. (I
seriously doubt that having two less
P.E.’s is going to cause the downfall
of the university.)

Second, why not allow students to
repeat some of the courses they en-
joy, rather than force them to choose
courses in which their only interest is
getting a big ‘“P’’ on their report
cards. I know this may go against the
well-rounded student theory, but why
not allow a student to become profi-
cient in one sport, rather than merely

 

 

 

 

 

familiar with five? I’m not proposing
that all P.E. courses should be
repeated, just the ‘‘lifetime sports”’,
such as running, swimming, golf,
tennis, weight lifting, and racquet-
ball. (It would be ridiculous to allow
someone to repeat a course such as
water life-saving once they’ve passed
it and become certified lifeguards).

Finally, why not allow students the
option of taking P.E. courses through
independent study, whereby they
would pledge on their honor to devote
a specified amount of time each week
to the sport of their choice? This
would allow students to fit physical
education into their schedules, rather
than vice versa. This would also
allow (or require, however you may
see it) students to cultivate self-
discipline, which is a pretty essential
part of growing up. Furthermore, I
believe this would, in addition to eas-
ing up on the burden of five P.E.
courses, allow and possibly en-
courage students to choose one sport
and perhaps become more proficient
at it than just being present during
five other courses.

  
  

 

Photos by
HANK MAYER

 

 

 

 

Lucy Anderson, sophmore,
Houston, Texas.
“Someone who's stable and

mentally balanced.’

Brad Waters, freshman, Kansas
City, Mo.

“Sound role models, but not
anti-social, conformist, spineless,
study-mongers that will reflect
negatively on W&L.”’

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 8, 1987

 

 

The IFC makes a canned food donation.

 

By W. Patrick Hinely/W&L

 

Atkins cites frat ‘charade’

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

 

In its last meeting before the
Christmas break the Intra-fraternity
Council ratified the bylaws to its con-
stitution. This ratification is subject
to the approval of the Student Ac-
tivities Committee, but the IFC
President Chris Saxman said he saw
no reason why the bylaws should not
be adopted and at the IFC’s meeting
Tuesday night he urged the frater-
nities to begin to operate under them,

The ratification process went
smoothly through the first ten bylaws
until bylaw eleven was reached. This
section deals with the “Rules for
Regulation of Fraternity Social
Functions”. This was the main point
of the dispute in the meeting and is
took over two hours for the bylaw to
be amended and passed.

The source of the conflict in bylaw
XI was how much control will be ex-
ercised over the individual frater-
nities in regards to their social ac-

LaRue enjoys government position

By CHRIS MUNSEY
Staff Reporter

 

“There are some things I put off
thinking about. Like sewage treat-
ment. It’s not high on my list,”’ says
Susan LaRue, who has served on the
Lexington City Council for six years.

LaRue first ran for city council in
1978, placing fourth in a field of eight
candidates. She ran again in 1980 and
was elected, after visiting hundreds
of local voters. ‘‘I saw a lot of people,
and I think people started to say, hey,
she’s serious about this. I was the on-
y choice people had for a change.”’

LaRue said she ran for office
yecause local politicians weren’t
»aying attention to issues such as the
2qual Rights Amendment. ‘I decid-
xd maybe the problem was there
vere no woman politicians in local
sovernment. I wanted to vote.”’

LaRue said she enjoys par-
icipating in local government for
everal reasons. “It’s fun to know
vhat’s going on, and saying some-
hing about an issue you feel is im-

portant.’’ Local government, accord-
ing to LaRue, does have some nega-
tive aspects.

“The scary part is having a vote
you know so little about. I don’t like
voting that makes people angry and
unhappy, against people I know and
like,” said LaRue, adding that hiring
and firing employees also bothers
her.

“Sometimes you just don’t know
the right answer.’’ LaRue thinks
some problems in the community
have not been met by the city council.

“You miss issues, don’t ask impor-
tant questions that should be asked,
because of a lack of time, lack of
knowledge, and lack of input from
other people,’’ said LaRue.

“Some days I’m sorry I’m there.
You get bored and don’t think it
makes much difference, but you have
to keep a sense of humor.”

The meetings of the different com-
mittees LaRue isan mber of usual-
ly demand one and sometimes three
evenings a week. ‘‘That’s why I like
the fifth week of the month, because

there aren’t any meetings,” said
LaRue.

LaRue has worked at the Washing-
ton and Lee bookstore for four years,
and is responsible for ordering the
general interest books. ‘‘Blood and
guts sell the most, and war and
humor books,’ said LaRue. The
bookstore sold $75,000 worth of
general interest books last year, and
LaRue says she orders the books bas-
ed on reviews and student requests.

“It’s fun to look at small presses
and out of the way academic titles. I
usually have in mind someone who
might buy the book. There’s all sorts
of interesting titles stashed away on
the shelves,’’ says LaRue, adding
that she tries to maintain the tradi-
tional intellectual seriousness of the
bookstore. ‘‘When we have our mid-
night madness sales, I’m really
pleased at the way students buy good
intellectual stuff.’’

LaRue grew up in Washington,
D.C., and majored in zoology at Duke

University, graduating in 1962. She
met her future husband Lewis on a
blind date. Lewis LaRue graduated
from W&L in 1959, and went on to
study law at the Harvard Law
School. ‘‘I thought he was going to be
a hotshot Washington lawyer, but we
moved to Lexington in 1967 when he
got an offer to teach at the law
school,” said LaRue.

“The town has gotten spiffier,
especially since they placed the elec-
tric wires underground on Main St.
The city has to develop tourism,’’
LaRue said. “‘The main problems in
the city are size and money. Our
taxes don’t go far enough, and the
school system gets less money than it
really deserves.’’

LaRue says similar types of
students go to W&L every year.
“There’s a consistent politeness
about students here, students willing
to be patient. I think they develop a
good deal of self-confidence and han-
dle life in a congenial, competent

”

way

W&L introduces a new summer program

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Assignments Editor

 

Some Washington and Lee students
and their parents may be attending
school together this June at W&L’s
rewest summer program, a family
dusiness institute.

The purpose of the institute is to
1elp family members learn about the
special problems associated with
‘unning a family business, according
0 Robert Fure, a director of summer
yrograms at W&L.

“The issues that dominate the life
of family-held corporations are not
itrictly financial,’’ Fure said.
‘Family business is woven through
vith many sociological and psycho-
ogical issues of family culture, sibl-

Jorm counselor applications now being taken

 

sy STEVEN POCKRASS
\ssignments Editor

 

Applications are now available for
students wishing to become fresh-
man dormitory counselors or Gaines
Hall resident assistants for the
1987-88 school year. Forms are
available in the Dean of Students’ Of-
fice, which is in Payne Hall.

Re-application forms from current
counselors are due Friday at noon.
Application forms and recommenda-
tions for other students are due at
noon Monday.

Dean of Freshmen H. Robert
Huntley said that applications would

ing rivalry, parent-child rela-
tionships and the pursuit of in-
dividual destinies.”

Topics to be examined at W&L’s
first annual Institute for Family
Business will be divisions of manage-
ment responsibilities among family
members, generational fragmenta-
tion of business ownership, com-
peting objectives among family
members, competing demands of
home and family, transfer of owner-
ship and employee relations.

The institute faculty will include
Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer and Professors Roger Dean,
John DeVogt, Joseph Goldsten and

Larry Lamont, all members of
W&L’s School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics.

be accepted from rising sophomores,
juniors and seniors, and only from
law students who currently are dorm
counselors. This likely will be the last
year that applications are accepted
from rising sophomore men or
women.

Huntley said the decision not to let
other law students apply was made
“simply because of the time de-
mand.”’ He said rising sophomores
would not be allowed to apply after
this year because there would be
enough women in the junior and
senior classes to sustain the pro-
gram.

“It isn’t that they haven’t worked
out,” he said.

Two national authorities on family
business will serve as adjunct pro-
fessors on the institute staff. Barbara
Hollander is a senior fellow in the
Program for Women in Family Busi-
ness at the Wharton School Office of
Executive Education. John L. Ward,
author of ‘Keeping the Family
Business Healthy,” is the Ralph
Marotta Professor of Private Enter-

prise at Loyola University in
Chicago.
Three other universities — the

Wharton School at the University of
Pennsylvania, Yale University and
Oregon State University — conduct
programs on family business. Simi-
lar programs not affiliated with
business schools include the Cleve-
land-based Center for Family

Application’s must include a dor-
mitory counselor’s recommendation.
Preliminary interviews will be held
Jan. 23-Jan. 27. Final interviews will
be held Jan. 29 and 30. Announce-

Business and the research-oriented
Family Firm Institute of Pittsburgh.

Fure said that the institute would
include a number of forums and that
the W&L staff expected to learn a lot
from the participants. From the in-
stitute, the school may develop a
regular-term course dealing solely
with family businesses.

Fure said W&L was starting its
program to serve a public need. As
many as 3,000 of W&L’s 15,000 alum-
ni, or 20 percent, are directly involv-
ed in family business, he said.

The institute is scheduled for June
28 - July 2. Enrollment is not limited
to alumni and will be first-come,
first-serve. The maximum enroll-
ment will be 45 individuals from as
many as 20 different companies.

ments of the selections should be
made by the end of the first week of
February.

More information may be obtained
from Huntley’s office, Payne Hall 6.

Designer drug lecture

 

Staff Reports

 

Dr. Daniel O’Donnell, director of
medical services at Mountain Wood,
a center for the treatment of alcohol-
ism and drug abuse in Charlottes-
ville, Va., will lecture at Washington
and Lee University Monday, January
12, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Superdance shooting for $34,000

 

By TOM BRICKEL
ftaff Reporter

Experiment is the unofficial theme
for this year’s Superdance, accord-
ng to its chairmen, James Barker
and Tom Thagard.

Barker, a senior and past worker
on the Superdance’s special events
zommittee, and Thagard, senior and
‘raternity coordinator the past two
years, refer to the recent change in
che dance’s format.

This is the first year since the
jance’s inception at Washington and
ee that the dance has been shorten-
2d. Previously 30 hours, several fac-
ors influenced their decision to
shorten the dance to 18 hours.

“The impetus for the change in-
tially came when Fontanne (Fon-
anne Bostic, Superdance advisor)
raveled to Las Vegas to present last
vear’s check to Jerry Lewis on the
MDA Telethon. While there, she had
he opportunity to speak with
‘epresentatives from other muscular
lystrophy Superdances,’’ said
Sarker.

- “Basically,” he added, “she learn-
d that shorter superdances at other

 

schools were as successful in bring-
ing in pledge money as the longer
superdances were, if not more suc-
cessful.”’

The result of this change should be
a more compact, exciting Super-
dance, according to Thagard.

“In the past, the length of the
dance meant that we had to hire two
big bands to attract people for Friday
and Saturday nights. This year, we
will have the money to not only hire
bigger and better bands, but we'll be
able to keep them playing for almost
the entire 18 hours. There will be
very few lulls in the dance this year,”
Thagard continued.

Covacus and the White Animals
are two of the many bands scheduled
to play this year.

Attrition has been another major
problem in past Superdances. ‘‘Get-
ting dancers to remain on the dance
floor for the scheduled 30 hours was
difficult, and many dancers would
leave before or after the break. Some
didn’t even come back until the
Saturday night band played,” said
Debi Hurtt, female coordinator for
the Superdance and a dancer last
year.

The shortened dance length will

have perhaps it greatest effect on the
amount of pledge money brought in.
Thagard and Barker pointed out that
in order to keep pace with the
amounts raised in past dances, a
large turnout will be necessary.

‘“‘We hope to double the number of
dancers which we had participate
last year which was about 160,’ com-
mented Barker. ‘‘Because that dance
was 39 hours, it had the opportunity
to make money from people who
came to watch the Friday night band.
It is an opportunity we lack this year,
but hopefully, with a large turnout,
plus attendance from the bands
througout the day, we'll be able to
equal, if not surpass, last year’s total
of $30,000,”’ he said.

The goal for this year is $34,000,
Thagard added.

As great as that goal may seem,
Barker and Thagard feel that it can
be reached. The W&L Superdance
last year was one of the country’s top
money earners per capita among the
nation’s schools for the Muscular
Dystrophy Association. And with
prizes such as a trip to the Virgin
Islands, this year’s Superdance pro-
mises to be the biggest ever. But this
depends on school participation

The topic of O’Donnel’s lecture is
“The Agony and the Ecstasy — De-
signer Drugs.’’ The lecture is open to
the public.

The lecture is being co-sponsored
by the Alcohol and Health Awareness
Committee at Washington and Lee
and the Mountain Wood Treatment
Center. For further information call
Carol Ann Calkins at 463-8590.

tivities. Many representatives
thought that the n>w bylaws were too
restrictive and interfered too much
in what they felt whould be their own
business.

On the other side of the issue was
Dean Buddy Atkins who supports the
restrictions on fraternity social
events. ‘‘The obligation of a specific
fraternity is to get as many people as
possible to stay in Lexington and
study. What the hell do you want to
do, party five days a week?” he ask-
ed the representatives, ‘“You’ve been
playing this stupid charade for
years,”

Many of the representatives saw
the final version of the bylaws as a
compromise or new and even stricter
regulations would be forced on them
by the school. Pi Kappa Phi Presi-
dent Jimmy Holmes said, “If we
didn’t accept these (bylaws) some-
thing worse would be forced on us by
the school. It was only a matter of
time. I think it will force us to be
more responsible.”

The new bylaws contain many new
mandatory ‘Guidelines for Safe
Partying.’’ Some of these guidelines
are: have a sober officer in charge of
the event, admit only members and
invited guests, collect car keys from
intoxicated people and designate
sober drivers to provide transporta-
tion for anyone who becomes intox-
icated.

Both Dean Atkins and Saxman said
that if all the houses adhere to these

guidelines they will become like sec
ond nature and seem less retrictive

The bylaws stress that all fraterni-
ty parties must now be closed with
only members, their dates and in-
vited guests allowed to attend.

In addition fraternities will be fore-
ed to register their social events with
the Council Social Chairman no later
than mid-day the day before the
event.

Police Chief Beard appeared at
Tuesday’s IFC meeting to discuss
some new procedures involving noise
permits.

Beard said that a new permit form
will be used stating the name of the
person in the house that is responsi-
ble for the event. In addition an
Amplified Sound Card would be given
to that person to be posted on the
front door of a house so that if an of-
ficer has come to that house he knows
who to ask for. Beard said this would
help solve the problem of officers just
entering a house without first asking
for a person in charge.

Atkins said that this new system
would make enforcement more con-
sistent and help the houses and the
police.

Before Beard left the meeting he
said, ‘‘I want you to know we are not
here to harass you. I am willing to
meet you more than halfway.”’

Saxman also annouced that 81 per-
cent of the men in the freshman class
pledged a fraternity this year.

 

welcome.

seniors welcome.

seniors welcome.

7:00-9:00 p.m., all seniors welcome.

 

[Career Comer]

Hecht’s Reception, Jan. 8, Alumni House, 6:30-8:00 p.m., all seniors
Wachovia Reception, Jan. 12, Alumni House, 7:00-8:30 p.m., all
First Union Reception, Jan. 13, Alumni House, 7:00-9:00 p.m., all
North Carolina National Bank Reception, Jan. 14, Alumni House,

BID DAY No. 1, Jan. 14, for companies on Jan. 20, 21 and 22.

Central Fidelity Bank Reception, Jan. 15, McCampbell Inn, The Great
Room, 7:00-10:00 p.m., all seniors welcome.

BID DAY No. 2, Jan. 19, for companies on Jan. 26-Feb. 5.
First Union Corporation, Jan. 20, 52 interview slots.
Procter and Gamble, Jan. 20, 8 open slots, 6 closed.
Westvaco, Jan. 21, 13 open slots, 13 closed.

Bank south, Jan. 21, 26 interview slots.

 

 

30 companies to
interview oncampus

By JOHN PENSEC
News Editor

 

With only five months until gradua-
tion, seniors who have not already
done so, are beginning to enter the
search for post-graduate employ-
ment. To help them in their endea-
vors, the Office of Career Develop-
ment and Placement has scheduled
30 banks and corporations to inter-
view on the Washington and Lee
campus between January 8 and April
7. The process differs from previous
years in that a bidding system is be-
ing used for the first time, a system
designed to give a student ‘personal
control over the sign up for on-
campus recruiting and to assure ab-
solute fairness,’ according to a
release from the career office.

According to the bidding system
each senior is given 400 points with
which they can make their bids for
individual organizations. Each
organization has a limited number of
interview slots and those students
turning in the highest bids will be
allotted a chance to sign up for an in-

terview. In the case of a tie, a lottery
will be held, and there will be waiting
lists for each organization. .uon.

There are a number of meetings
designed to orient seniors to the bid-
ding system and attendance is man-
datory for any senior planning on
participating in the recruitment pro-
cess. The meetings will be held on-
Friday January 9 at 4 p.m., Monday,
January 12 at 5 p.m. and Friday,
January 16 at4p.m.

In addition to the bidding system,
the career office has scheduled a
series of workshops during the
Winter term similar to those offered
during the Fall. These workshops are
open to all students. On January 13 at
4 p.m. Shannon W. McFayden. Assis-
tant Vice President and Manager of
College Relations for First Union
Corporation will speak on interview-
ing and job search techniques

Trey Mamo, '84 will speak on
January 16 at 3 p.m. on Information-
New York Investment and Commer-
cial banks. Both Mamo and McFay-
den will speak in Room 114 of the
University Center.

 

File Photo

hitachi

meme

—

re emg oe my

—

~~

Lh, 1 a ar.

NNR N AN OE 8 gg 2 ag NINN
rT

 

SS men nst Aen eam 6 @

 

ee ee eee ee
a ee ee ee Oe ee ae ee
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 8, 1987,

 

zenerals win at the buzzer

y MIKE SHADY
ssistant Sports Editor

 

Call him ‘‘Mr, Clutch. :

With six seconds remaining,
ophomore Lee Brading grabbed the
asketball and decided to take mat-
‘rs into his own hands, Brading
'eaved his way through traffic on
1e left wing and from two feet
ehind the three-point line pulled up
nd released the basketball in that
ear perfect Spalding Guide form.
he shot nicked the rim as it settled
1 the net and it gave the Washington
nd Lee basketball team a thrilling
1-68 victory over Cortland State
‘uesday night in the Warner Center.

“I wasn’t sure how much time was
“ft when I got the ball,” said
irading. ‘‘We were running out of
ime, and I had to get it off.”

Brading scored the General’s final
even points in a game that started
ut looking like a junior high school
lame and not at all like Division III
ollege basketball. The first half was
narred with sloppy play as both
eams appeared rusty after the
‘hristmas holidays. The General’s
vere particularly cold from the out-
ide, shooting only 35% from the
ield. Cortland State fared better
rom the floor with a 48% clip but lost
nany scoring opportunities by turn-
ng the ball over an alarming 13

times. A late scoring run at the close
of the half provided Cortland State
witha slim halftime lead, 32-29.

W&L was faced with two problems
at the onset of the contest, both of
which were a result of the team’s
vacation trip to Europe. One was the
overall condition or stamina of the
players. W&L’s solution was to
substitute frequently throughout the
entire game.

“We were not in the shape we
hoped to be in after the trip,” said
head coach Verne Canfield. ‘‘We are
a little weary from all our traveling.”

The other problem was what Can-
field referred to as ‘a family mat-
ter.” Three General starters, senior
Rob Spencer, and juniors Harmon
Harden and Steve Hancock, watched
the game from the bench in street
clothes.

“Three people were not able to
play so we had to go with odd lineups
all night,” he said.

Canfield was specifically talking
about the lineup he put on the floor
for the stretch drive. W&L went with
senior Jefferson Harralson, who led
all scorers with 20 points, as the lone
big man and put Brading, sophomore
Manny Klump, freshmen Wes Boyd,
and senior Fred Bissinger around the
perimeter. ‘‘Shooters,”’ Canfield
said, ‘They were simply outside
shooters.”

 

The First String
By David Emrich

Sports Editor

a

 

 

Too many questions

Last Friday undefeated Miami and undefeated Penn State squared
off in a matchup of the first and second ranked college football teams
in the nation. The game was, without a doubt, one of the most exciting
in recent memory. Imagine, the National Title coming down to one
play. You couldn’t have written a better scenario.

Wouldn’t it be just as good to end every season with an all-or-nothing
game just like this year’s Fiesta Bowl? Wouldn’t you like to see a Na-
tional Championship Playoff system for Division I Football?

Well, I think a National playoff system is a good idea. It’s just the
narticulars of the proposal that bother me. What would happen to the
Bowls? How would you pick which teams would participate in the
playoffs? How would the extra games affect the players and coaches?

iirst, what would happen to the Bowls? The bow! system has given a
lot to college football over the years. It has generated huge amounts of
excitement (not to mention huge amounts of revenue) for the sport.
Naturally, when someone comes up with a good thing (in this case the
bowls) other people pick up the idea. Hence, the 18 bowl games we
have today. Since I don’t think that it would be right to discontinue the
bow! system cold turkey, how would we include the Bowls in a playoff
system? Would it be fair to give all the Bowls (the newer bowls and the
New Year’s Day Bowls alike) an equal chance to host the National Ti-
tle Game? Would it be fair not to? How do we include all 18 bowls
anyway? If 16 teams are invited to the playoffs, that still leaves two
bow! games out in the cold. Which bowls then would be annointed for
survival by the NCAA? How would they decide fairly?

Second, how would you pick the teams to participate in the playoffs?
For that matter, how many teams could you invite? This isn’t like the
NCAA Basketball Tournament, you couldn’t invite everybody with a
winning record. Would you give automatic bids to certain conference
champions? Wouldn’t that perpetuate the bias towards the large
southern football factories? If that were the case, what about the
smaller schools and conferences, and what happens to the in-
dependents like Miami of Penn State? Would these teams be
systematically excluded from the Playoffs? If you use the wire service
rankings to decide who gets a tournament bid, isn’t that just as ar-
bitrary as the present system? Which wire service ranking would you
use? As it stands, the team with the best record generally wins the Na-
tional Title. In a playoff system, would the teams with the best records
get tournament invitations? What incentive is there then to play a dif-
ficult regular season schedule? What would stop Oklahoma (or any
team for that matter) from playing a schedule of Division 1-AA
schools to pad their record and assure themselves of a tournament
bid?

Third, what effect would the extra games have on the players and
coaches? These aren’t professional football players (for the most
part) that were dealing with here. How would the extra games affect
the players mentally? Traditionally a bowl game has been a reward
for a good season, would the playoffs become the object of the season?
With the playoff system, the teams will be forced to play extra games,
which means extra expenses, which means extra money must pe
given to the praticipating teams. The idea of even more cash cir-
culating around Division I Football makes me uneasy, but I suppose
Division I Basketball has been able to handle the extra money, there’s
no reason to think that Division I Football wouldn’t be able to control
the extra cash.

Maybe now you can understand my dilemma. I like the idea of a
playoff system to decide the National Title, but there are a lot of
details to work out yet. Maybe someday, someone will solve all the
problems and I would feel better about the whole idea. Until then
however, I can’t answer even half the questions that occur to me when
I start to consider a playoff system.

 

 

The Generals fell behind,
58-46,with 11:42 left in the second
half. But a 13-1 spurt over the next
five minutes erased the deficit and
knotted the score at 59 with 6:12 re-
maining. W&L was playing excellent
basketball at both ends of the floor.

“Offensively we slowed down,”
said Canfield, ‘‘Before we were
rushing. We put the people in the
areas (on the court) where we
wanted them to be in.

“I’m so proud of them that they
didn’t quit and kept pecking away
This was a game in which everybody
contributed.”’

With under 45 seconds left to play
and the score deadlocked at 67, Cort-
land State sent Klump to the line for
the one-and-one. Klump missed the
front-end and Cortland State had its
chance to either win the game or
send it into overtime. However, with
head coach Bill Williams instructing
his team to hold for the final shot,
Mark Wainright inexplicably decided
to take on three General defenders
and crashed into Brading for an of-
fensive foul. Brading hit one of two
from the line so W&L led briefly
68-67.

After Wainwright’s stupidity, the
General’s returned the favor when-
with six seconds showing on the
clock, Bissinger fouled Harry Barr in
the act of shooting. Barr could

 

 

 

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore guard Manny Klump launches a shot against Cortland State on Tues-

day.
manage only one of two and that set
the stage for Brading’s game-ending
heroics.

“I thought (the shot) was going
right,” admitted Brading.

It sure did go right. Right into the
basket.

HOOKSHOTS: Klump and Brading
contributed 14 points apiece. Klump
was especially accurate from
three-point range, shooting four for
seven... Brian Hoyt and Mike
Grabosky of Cortland St. teamed up
on the play of the evening. Off a
fastbreak, Hoyt alley-ooped the ball

up from the left wing and Grabosky
grabbed it with two hands and slam
bam jammed it home... The Generals *
will host the W&L invitational this :
weekend at the Warner Center...
Brading, on the General’s success in: -
tight ballgames: “I can’t remember
the last time we won a close game’””...

Hoopsters travel, get a taste of ‘euroball’

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee basket-
ball team travelled to Europe over
the Christmas holidays to play teams
in Belgium, the Netherlands, and
Luxembourg. The Generals were 1-2
on the trip, including a win over
Sportlife of Amsterdam and losses to
Mercurius of Antwerp and A.B. Con-
tern of Luxembourg.

The first game of the series started
with an excellent first period, but the
Generals fell apart in the second half,

according to head coach Verne Can-
field. Senior Jefferson Harralson and
junior Harmon Harden were the
leading scorers for W&L in a 91-72
loss to Mercurius.

In their second game, the Generals
blew out Sportlife, 101-67. Sophmore
Lee Brading and Harden both had 14
points in that game, and both Har-
ralson and junior Steve Hancock had
12 each.

The final game of the trip was the
only close one, a narrow 72-70 loss to
A.B. Cotern, a team with one profes-
sional player who led all scorers with
30 points. Harralson scored 23
points to lead the Generals. Sopho-

Grapplers hope to be

healthy for weekend
quadrangular meet

 

By MATHEW HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team hopes to be healthy enough to
turn its season around this Saturday
in a quadrangular meet in the
Warner Center.

“We hope everyone will be back”’
to wrestle, head coach Gary Franke
said yesterday.

Five wrestlers did not wrestle in
the Generals’ last match — a 33-17
loss to Virginia Tech on Dec. 10
—because of injuries. Sophomore
Mark Robertson will undergo

surgery to correct his injured knee
and will not compete for the rest of
the season, Franke said.

Franke said he was not sure
whether or not junior Dan Fales or
sophomore Richard Redfoot would
be able to compete this weekend.

Last weekend, three Generals
— seniors John Lowe and Tim
Walker and sophomore George
Loupassi — wrestled in the Maryland
Open. Walker was the most suc-

* cessful of the three, winning three of

his five matches.

The Generals will face Johns
Hopkins, Loyola and Hampden-
Sydney in the meet Saturday. Match-
es start at noon.

Van Son and Gareis

named to All-South
soccer team

 

From Staff Reports

Two players from the Washington
and Lee men’s soccer team were
named by the National Soccer
Coaches Association to the All-South
Team,

Senior forward Peter Van Son of
Lloyd Harbor, N.Y. made the first
team while junior goalie Chris Gareis
of Atlanta garnered second team
honors.

“I am very proud for both of

them,’’ said head coach Rolf Pira-
nian. ‘‘They had outstanding seasons
and really deserve this prestigious
honor.”’

Van Son scored five goals during
the season, two of which were game
winners. Garcis had three shutouts
en route to establishing a school
record for career shutouts and allow-
ed just 14 goals. Both players were
key performers for the Generals as
W&L captured its first Old Dominion
Athletic Conference title.

more Manny Klump has 13 points and
junior Lou Trosch added 10.

All three games were piayed under
international rules, which create a
much more fast paced game than
American rules. For example, when
an offensive violation occurs, the
team which gains possesion can put
the ball into play immediately; the
clock continues to run, and the of-
ficials do not touch the ball. Also,
goal tending is rarely called, and this
rule, said Canfield, created a real
problem for the Generals against
A.B. Contern, whose big men blocked
several General shots after the ball
was already on the way down.

But basketball, according to Can-
field, was only a secondary reason
for the trip. The primary goal uf the
trip, said Canfield, was to provide an
educational experience for his
players. ‘‘I would want to go even if
we didn’t play a single game,” he
said.

Canfield, who is in his 23rd season
at W&L, is already planning a return
trip in 1990 and hopes that the Univer-
sity will consider awarding academic
credit to the students who par-
ticipate.

The games.do not count towards
the General’s regular season record.

 

Senior forward Jefferson Harralson (34) penetrates the Cortland State
defense as Freshman center Del Clark (50) looks on.

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers
115 S. Main St.,

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

463-2742

SEASON’S FIRST
CLASS FIREWOOD, split
to size and delivered; also,
bundles of kindling wood.
Phone 348-5862.

Herring Travel Services

or

  

41 South Main

 

sfor Spring Break

Sea from $299.00 up
Caribbean and Hotel and Air

— Ski from $459.00 up
Colorado includes Hotel and Air

 

463-2194

 

27605.

 

Dane SEMBULL
TCAMP SEAFASER

CAMP COUNSELING - for those who love children. Sea Gull and
Seafarer are character and health development camps on the coast of
North Carolina serving children ages 7 - 16. Recruiting staff for sail-
ing, motorboating, aquatics, golf, tennis, riflery, archery, canoeing,
basketball, lacrosse, soccer, nature studies, arts and crafts, nursing,
office, food services and horseback riding (Seafarer only). Qualifica-
tions: interest in children, ability to instruct one phase of the camps’
programs and excellent references. For further information write to
Don Cheek, Director, Camp Sea Gull (Boys) or to Judy Bright, Direc-
tor, Camp Seafarer (Girls), P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina

Representatives will be at the

CO-OP
January 14, 10:00 - 3:00

 

 
3. £.23... er 'iwoe

<~sFWes ar

SEAR R

_
a

 

 

EBACK PAGE

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 8, 1987

A ‘Little Shop’ of suprises!

 

By MICHAEL TUGGLE
Movie Critic

 

* * *xTUG'S TAGS« «x

* x x x Excellent-Don't miss it

* «x x Good-Solid Flick

* * O.K.-Good for Study Breaks

* Bad-Better Things to Do

BOMB A waste of Time and Money.

“Little Shop of Horrors" is one of
the most enjoyable movie: musicals
and certainly one of the finest Broad-
way adaptions to come to the big
screen in years. It combines solid
performances with exceptional spe-
cial effects and a plethora of musical
numbers that will excite you and put
a smile on your face.

The show opens in Mushnik’s Skid
Row Florist shop where Mushnik
(Vincent Gardinia) announces to his
two employees, Seymour (Rick
Moranis) and Audrey (Ellen
Greene), that due to poor business he
is closing the shop. In desperation,

Audrey suggests that ‘putting that
strange and interesting plant that
Seymour has been working on in the
window might attract customers.”
Strangely enough, when Seymour
puts the ‘‘Audrey II" (in honor of his
secret crush on Audrey) in the win-
dow, customers start pouring in.

As the three attempt to leave for a
celebration dinner that evening, the
“Audrey II'' droops in Seymour's
hands. With visions of losing his sud-
den wealth, Mushnik confines
Seymour to the shop to care for the
ailing plant. While trying to discover
the cause of the plant's sickness,
Seymour pricks his finger on a thorn.
Suddenly the “Audrey II" stands up
and attempts to suck his finger. As
Seymour moves his finger closer to
the plant, the ‘‘Audrey II’ snaps at
his finger as if to bite it off. To do
what he thinks will save the plant,
Seymour squeezes a few drops of
blood into the plants mouth and begs
it to grow.

Grow it does! The cannabalistic
“Audrey II" continues to grow until
it grows larger than Seymour himself
with total transformation climaxing

as the ‘‘Audrey II" begins to speak.
From here on the film takes twists
and turns involving Seymour's crush
on Audrey, her relationship with
boyfriend Orin Scrivello, the sadistic
dentist, and the ‘Audrey II's’ true
origin that dead end in an explosion
of music and laughter at the end of
the film.

‘Little Shop of Horrors’’ has a
multitude of solid performances that
complement each other well. Rick
Moranis’ performance as Seymour is
reminiscent of the ‘‘Ghostbusters”’
role that propelled him to comedic
stardom. His relationships with
Audrey and the ‘‘Audrey II"’ are both
humerous and touching in a ‘‘sappy
Broadway kinda way,"’ once again
demonstrating that Moranis is one of
the funniest, most talented actors in
film today.

Ellen Greene’s dizzy blonde por-
trayal of Audrey is the finest perfor-
mance in the film. Her airhead
delivery and brassy singing voice
bring the same electricity to her
screen role that enabled her to steal
the show in the off-Broadway
original. Steve Martin is hilarious as

the demented dentist while Bill Mur-
ray, John Candy and Jim Belushi
provide cameo appearances that are
quite funny, In addition, Tichna Ar-
nold, Michelle Weeks, and Tisha
Campbell are wonderful as a
‘‘Supremes’’-style background
chorus that repeatedly appears at
dramatic moments in the film.

Perhaps the most important
member of the cast is never seen.
Levi Stubbs of the original ‘Four
Tops’ provides the voice for the
‘Audrey II’’ and makes the monster
mound of singing foliage a character
you'll be quoting and humming after
as you leave the theater.

From an overall perspective, ‘‘Lit-
tle Shop of Horrors” is in its own
right one of the year’s best. Good
casting, riveting performances by
the characters, a wonderful 50s-60s
doo-wop score, and exciting, realistic
special effects make this film a fun
experience and a possible sleeper for
the Oscars this spring. If you enjoy
Broadway musicals or music in
general, then don’t miss “Little Shop
of Horrors.”

Irateita «& % x.

Critic choses ten best records of year

 

By MARSHALL BOSWELL
Entertainment Editor

 

This was the year the Monkees
became famous. Again.

This was also the year that Madon-
na, like any other good Catholic girl,
quit talking about her virginity and
started worrying about getting preg-
nant. Boston released a record that
took longer to record than it took
Thomas Pynchon to write all 820
pages of Gravity’s Rainbow. Janet
Jackson convinced everyone that she
wasn't fat, Duran Duran almost
dwindled down to nothing (a bit of
wishful thinking? ), and Dweezil Zap-
pa became a household name.

But there have been worse years.
Honest.

Amid all of this stupidity—and
stupid was certainly the key word for
this year of Space Shuttle disasters
and Irangates—there were some
very good records released. Honest.

In fact, The Ring-tum Phi has
chosen the 10 best pop records of the
year—some you might have heard,
others you might have had no idea
even existed. Nonetheless, they are
all out there, begging to be bought.

Before we unveil the list, a few
things must be cleared up. Bruce
Springsteen's ‘‘Spruce Goose’’ did
not make it since all of the per-
formers listed put in a bit of work this
year. Sitting behind a digital remix
board for a couple of weeks hardly
counts as a major acheivement.
Sorry Bruce. Also, sales had nothing
to do with the selection.

The number ten album of the year
belongs to the Lucy Show. Their sec-
ond effort, called ‘‘Mania,”’ is almost,
as perfect a pop record as one could
find. Great melodies, tight playing,

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     

and exquisite production by producer
John Leckie make this one of the
year’s best. Watch for this one to
make some waves in the coming
months.

Husker Du’s major label debut,
“Candy Apple Grey,” certainly
wasn't their best, but it was easily
one of the best record of the year. The
Woodentops get the eighth best
release with ‘‘Giant’’ a kinetic, ex-
uberant showcase of pop smarts and
good feelings. Lead singer Rollo Gen-
try is on the verge of becoming a -
star. Mark those words.

Coming in at number seven is
R.E.M., with “Life’s Rich Pageant.”’
Don Gehman, John Cougar Mellen-
camp’s producer, gives this record
an AOR punch that would lead on to
scream ‘‘Sell out!”’ if it weren’t for
the fact that the songs were so damn
good. (Ironically enough, this record
contains ‘“‘Superman,”’ R.E.M.’s big-
gest hit so far and a song that was
probably intended as a B-side. But
what with the Monkees and all...)

Easterhouse-a five man English
group-released a stunning debut
record of strident politics and teeth-
grinding rock n’ roll called
“Contenders.”’ Not since the Gang of
Four has a band mixed socialism and
pop music this well. Their music is a
cross between Joy Division and Big
Country; their lyrics fall somewhere
between Das Kapital and the Clash,

The Smiths get the number five
album with “The Queen is Dead.”
Ten songs about the monarchy,
poetry, loneliness, big mouths,
transvestite vicars and love make
this an interesting journey. So far,
this is the Smith’s best yet.

Coming in at number four is XTC
with their brand new Ip, ‘“Skylark-
ing.” Some of the songs on this

STUDENTS.

 

eh a,

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

Games, Hobbies, Craft Supplies

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5
Lexington

463-3355

 

Open Mon.-Sat.,

Ft me ae ee ee arena en

The Sandwich Shop

Old Main Street Mall

To Go Orders!
Phone 463-2595

11 a.m.-5 p.m.

el

breath-taking record are truly
sublime—all the others are simply
wonderful. This lush, pastoral record
is this group’s eighth release. A hun-
dred years from now, historians arc
going to look back on popular culture
in the 80s and wonder why XTC
weren't hugely successful.

Paul Simon's ‘Graceland’ comes
in at number three. Everything about
this record is beautiful: the music,
the lyrics, the production. Hey, even
the record cover is pretty sharp. Paul
Simon continues to be the John Up-
dike of pop music, putting us keenly
in touch with out society and our-
selves, and doing it beautifully and
tastefully.

Peter Case’s first solo effort was
almost the best record of the year.
Great songs, great singing and great
playing — it’s all here. Case’s fusion
of blues, folk, Beatle-esque pop and
flat-out rock n’ roll is stunning: it is
like listening to a paradigm of
popular music. Pick this one up if you
ever see it.

And the best record of the year? No
doubt about it, the Church’s ‘Hey
Day” takes top honors. This is
joyous, uplifting music, lush, power-

 

 

Sun Your Buns For Free

LUV Tours is actively searching for in-
dividuals, groups, fraternities, clubs, efc., to
join our Springbreak getaways. Our group
leaders receive FREE trips, commissions, and
excetient marketing and sales experience for
resumes. If you are outgoing, energetic, and
LUV springbreak, please check us out:
Daytona Beach from $99, Ft. Lauderdale from
$129, and Key West only $165. Call now toll free
1-800-368-2006.

= OV To

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SENIOR PRE-MED

Could you use a scholarship for medical
school? Why not investigate the Armed Forces
Health Professions Scholarship Program,

with sponsorship by the U.S. Air Force. Current
senior premedical students of medicine or
osteopathy may now compete for Air Force
scholarships. The scholarships provide full tuition,
all authorized fees plus a $550 + monthly
stipend. We want to help you continue your
education. Contact your local Air Force health
professions representative, for details. Call

Capt George Berberich MSgt Ed Blevins
(804) 276-0459 (703) 552-8472
or Collect
=
we PA E'S
7 wreee: §

ful and emotional. Someday,when
the world is perfect, all rock music
will sound like this.

And that’s it. Ten performers,
eighty dollars worth of records, six
and a half hours worth of music. As
Pee Wee Herman sez: ‘I mean, you
know, that’s sooo cool.”’

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
   
 

Aluin-Bennis

Winter Clearance

       
     
     
     
       
     
        
    
     
     
     
    
    
   
       
     
     
     
    
       
       
       
       
       
      
        
   

The incredible chase of a nuclear
Odd domestic life of a travel writer

Madcap genealogical

television production

A collection of four of his earliest

personal reflectons me
From Sea to Shining Sea, by James

Lewis and Clark expedition.

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. Bloom County Babylon, by Berke Breathed. (Lite, Brown,
$12.95) Bloom County comic strips.

2. It Came From the Far Side, by Gary Larson. (Andrews, McMeel
& Parker, $5.95.) The latest cartoons from the Far Side.

3. The Far Side Gallery 2, by Gary Larson. (Andrews, McMeel &
Parker, $9.95 | Collection of Far Side cartoons

4. The Hunt for Red October, by Torn Ciancy. (Berkley, $4.50.)
5. The Accidental Tourist, by Anne Tyler. (Berkley, $450)

6. Galapagos, by Kurt Vonnegut (Dell, $4 50)
adventure

7. West With the Night, by Bery! Markham. (North Point, $12.50)
Flying in East Ainca and across the Atlantic in the 1930's

8. Secrets, by Danielle Stee! (Dell, $4.95.) Behind the scenes of a

9. Women who Love too Much, by Robin Norwood. (Pocket,
$4.50.) How to avoid the pitialis of unhealthy relabonships.

10. The Bachman Books, by Stephen King. (NAL/Signet, $5.95.)
works.

EMRE Ne OO Oe EcRcamOr Lom ARO ERON RGR De COREG Rar Progra Fe carey Ceceron |S 8

New & Recommended

4 persona! salecon of Caruine Miter Brown Ureversty Bookstore

The Solace of Open Space, by Grete! Ehrlich. (Penguin, $5.95.) Life in
the open spaces of Wyoming - part travelogue and part

(Ba llantine, $4.50) Based on te Ives ol he Clark tami and the

Always Coming Home, by Ursula K. LeGuin. (Bantam, $4.95)
The story of the Kesh, @ peaceful people of the far future,

wen

submanne

Alexander Thom

 

writing for The Ring-tum Phi.

Whether you’re experienced or not,

So please attend a brief meeting

for old and new reporters

Sunday, Jan. Ll

8 p.m.

in the Phi Office

(University Center Room 200)

If you can’t attend but want to write,

please contact Steve Pockrass

Don’t pollute.
Forest Service, U.S.DA.

It’s A New Year

and a fine time for you to be

  

       
        
         
   
   
  

Woodsy Owl says

Injuries Hurt!
Give a hoot.
