om

~

;

'

 

 

 

Flash back
Homecoming ’86

remembered

 

VOLUME 8, NUMBER7

Page 5

Che King-tum Phi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Fall back

back Sunday

 

Set your clocks

   
   
   

 

 

Your weekend weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Chance of rain; lows in mid 40s
highs mid 60s to mid 70s

 

OCTOBER 23, 1986

 

 

 

 

Cast your vote

Freshmen place their votes Monday in the Gilliam-Davis
quad for class offices including freshman EC represen-

Delt plans
benefit

 

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

tative, class president and vice president. Run-offs will
be held today.

IFC bans the press
from its meetings

 

By STACY MORRISON
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

THE SNAG

After only limited discussion, the
Interfraternity Council voted 11-1
Tuesday night to prohibit Ring-tum
Phi reporters from attending its
meetings. Five fraternities abstained
from voting.

IFC President Chris Saxman said
the negative attitude toward the
press was the result of ‘‘bad press up
until this date. None of the guys want
negative stuff about their fraternities
printed on the front page.”’

But Saxman said that because the
vote was taken after relatively little
discussion, the topic would definitely
be raised again at next week’s
meeting. ‘‘It was probably too much
of a cut and dry vote. We didn’t have

4 too much of a discussion on either

side,’ Saxman said.

Tuesday’s vote occurred one week
after Saxman told a Phi reporter and
editor to leave at the beginning of an
IFC meeting. The action was chal-
lenged, but the reporter and editor
left peacefully.

1. Kappa Alpha - 30 “10. Sigma’ Chi-"T2
concert
By STACY MORRISON 2. Sigma Alpha Epsilon - 27 11. Sigma Phi Epsilon - 12
Staff Reporter

 

Final plans for the Delta Tau
Delta/United Way benefit concert
were revealed at the Interfraternity
Council meeting Tuesday night, ac-
cording to IFC President Chris Sax-
man.

All door proceeds will go to the
local chapter of the United Way. DTD
decided to sponsor the benefit con-

4.

cert to “improve public rela- °
tions...and do something for the com- 6. Beta Theta Pi - 15 15.
munity,’ said sophomore Delt
brother Bill Webb. - ‘
Four bands are scheduled to play | 7. Pi Kappa Phi - 14 16.

the concert. Wildgrass starts the
show at 8:00 p.m., followed by the
Tim Eddy Quartet. The Stains will do
their set at 10:00 p.m., and The Con-
vertibles will finish up the concert,
scheduled to end at midnight. Each
band will play an hour.

The $3.00 cover charge will go to

9.

 

3. Pi Kappa Alpha - 19

Phi Delta Theta - 17

Kappa Sigma - 16

Phi Kappa Psi - 13

12.

13.

14.

17.

Phi Kappa Sigma - 13

Chi Psi - 12

Sigma Nu - 10
Lambda Chi Alpha - 8
Delta Tau Delta - 7

Phi Gamma Delta - 5

Zeta Beta Tau -4

 

 

the United Way. Refreshments are

included as part of the concert. At. the

Auditorium Wednesday night.
meeting,

getting out of hand. Fraternities

fraternity were warned of possible liabilities for

The IFC has actively promoted
Alcohol Awareness Week. According
to Saxman, eleven pledge classes
were told to attend the “Law and
Alcohol” lecture held in the Northen

representatives were urged to main-
tain strict control of their weekend
parties. Only brothers and invited
guests should be admitted, said Sax-
man, to limit the chance of a party’s

which they could be held responsible,
added Saxman.

In other IFC business:

The Thanksgiving canned food

drive has been moved to the

Christmas season, said Saxman. He
felt that more time was needed to ef-
fectively plan such a time-consuming
activity, for it to be a success. Cann-
ed foods will be collected during the
drive and distributed to needy
families in the area.

Until this time, Phi reporters had
been attending the meetings regular-
ly for more than a year.

Three hours after the meeting,
Saxman told Phi co-editor Jason Lisi
that he and the reporter had been
kicked out because nothing in the IFC
constitution states that the meetings
had to be open to the press and
public. He also said that they were
asked to leave because of negative
news about fraternities constantly
being printed in the paper, said Lisi.

Lisi said that at the end of their
conversation, Saxman told him that
the reporter would be allowed to at-
tend the meetings. But when the
reporter arrived at this week’s
meeting, Saxman told her that she
would not be allowed to enter. With
her out of the room, the IFC voted
against admitting reporters.

The fraternity that voted for the
admission of a reporter said that it
could be a benificial action for the
IFC. Sigma Nu President David
Barnes said, ‘‘I think that the Ring-
tum Phi would make the IFC much
more responsible if they were there.”

Saxman said that he views a
reporter at the IFC meetings as an

unnecessary action, because he
thinks that many of the items
discussed at IFC meetings are not
newsworthy, Saxman agreed to
speak with a reporter after every
meeting to release the information
discussed at the meeting.

After the meeting, Saxman spoke
with the reporter and stressed that
the topic was not closed. When asked
why they decided to hold the vote, he
said there were a lot of negative com-
ments concerning last week’s inci-
dent. He felt that the IFC was
generally not receptive to a
reporter’s being present at the
meeting, so he decided to a hold a
vote.

Saxman said in a phone conversa-
tion last night that he felt that this
was a minor topic that is not resolv-
ed. When told that the Phi would be
running this story, he expressed con-
cern that the issue would become
blown out of proportion. He said that
he would no longer attempt to deal
with the Phi concerning this topic,
and expressed dissatisfaction with
the fact that the Phi found this stery
so important.

EC rejects new
HV trial proposal

By VALERIE PIERSON
Staff Reporter

 

In its meeting Monday night, the
Executive Committee considered a
proposal by James Humphreys, the
third year law representative. The
proposal called for the formation of
an ad hoc committee which would
evaluate two specific areas of the
Honor System.

The first issue to be discussed was
that of discovery, which is the means
by which an accused person learns
what the witnesses against him are
going to say. Humphreys stated that
the present system allows for a trial
by surprise because many times the
accused has no idea of what certain
witnesses are voing to say; there-
fore, he is unable to prepare an ade-
quate defense for his case.

The second issue was whether the
closed hearings of the Executive
Committee should be more adver-
sarial in nature. Humphreys said
that he was concerned because pro-
secution evidence is commonly
presented in a confused manner due
to the format of the closed hearings.
He argued that an organized prosecu-
tion could better present the facts
surrounding a potential honor viola-
tion.

Humphreys explained that his
main concern was to provide an ac-
curate hearing. He therefore propos-
ed that an ad hoc committee compos-
ed of a law student, two under-
graduates, a law school EC member,
and two undergraduate EC members
be formed to examine his concerns.

The proposal immediately met
with strong opposition. Sophomore
representative Christopher de
Movellan argued that an ad hoc com-
mittee was unnecessary because the
Executive Committee members
themselves were the most familiar
with the inner workings of the Honor
System. Therefore, he suggested that
the EC settle the matter itself.

Executive Committee President
Shayam Menon challenged the idea
that the accused has no means of
discovery. He stated that he is able to
give the accused a brief synopsis of
what a specific witness is going to
say.

Furthermore, he added in an inter-
view that every benefit is given to the
accused, and extensions are granted
if legitimate reasons are given, suck
as the need to obtain documents frorr
various sources.

C See EC, page 4

Students work off-campus

 

By CHRISTIE CHAMPLIN
Staff Reporter

 

Although students are kept more than busy by the
academic and social activities at Washington and Lee
University, many find time for part-time jobs in the Lex-
ington community. Alvin-Dennis, The Palms, The Col-
lege Town Shop, and Spanky’s are just some of the local
stores which employ students.

The majority of the employees of Alvin-Dennis are
members of a fraternity since they ‘draw people from
their houses into the store,”’ said owner Alvin Carter. The
employees work part-time and do not go through a set
training program. Many of the students who start work
continue to do so through graduation, while some even
continue to work after graduating, before continuing
school or changing to another profession.

Steve Morris, a senior, has been working at Alvin-
Dennis since May, 1984. Morris works three days a week
because it gives him many good opportunities to meet
people. His earnings are used for pocket money and are
applied toward bills. His responsibilities include sales
and inventory at the store. The hours are ‘‘very flexible,”’
Morris said, adding that one can work ‘‘whenever you
want to,”

He does not think that his job is interfering with his
academic or social life. The wages consist of a varying
commission and a credit toward a personal bill.

Other W&L student employees at Alvin-Dennis are
Wright Ledbetter, a sophomore; Reese Lanier, a junior;
Tem Myers, a sophomore; David Dunn, a junior;
Christopher de Movellan, a sophomore; Johnny Alford,
2nd year law; Powell Starks, a junior in the law school.

In order to work at the Palms students must be at least
18 years old; however, it is preferable to owner Wade
Leslie if all of his employees are 21 so they can work
behind the bar. The age requirement cuts down on the
number of students working at the restaurant. The lack

of flexibility in student’s schedules also hinders their
working.

“Students aren’t as flexible as we'd like them to be,”’
said Leslie. There is a need for help on the big weekends
such as Homecoming Weekend and ‘‘students have their
social lives, too,’’ said Leslie. The necessary training is
usually completed within a week.

Students sometimes continue working through gradua-
tion. For example, last year an employee who had work-
ed in the kitchen for two years graduated. Due to the age
requirements students usually do not begin working until
their junior or senior years.

The students work predominately evening shifts. W&L
students working this year are Greg Barrow, a junior;
Mark Chiapparra, a junior; Will Graham, a sophomore;
and Bobby Fitts, a senior who is working for his second
year.

Mike Henry and Quinn Barton, juniors, work at The
College Town Shop. Henry is working to ‘make a little
extra spending money,’ while Barton is working to gain
“good experience.” They work two or three times a week
for about ten hours. Their earnings, a set wage and a
commission, are used to pay for their bills, recreational
activities and the necessities of life. Their responsibilities
are to sell clothes and watch over the store when the
manager is not there. The hours are arranged depending
on the employees’ schedules, The part time job does not
interfere with academics because ‘‘you learn to budget
your time’’ and ‘‘make a routine,” said Barton.

Friends who come into the store offer a ‘‘good change
of pace,’’ provide a chance to socialize while working and
can usually be persuaded to buy something.

Spanky’s hires students on the basis of their availabili-
ty. They must hold to their commitment of at least two
shifts per week. The W&L students do not differ a lot from
other employees at the restaurant except that they tend
to be ‘more mature, more intelligent, and more adapt-

See Students, page 4

 

Work that magic!!!

Professor Keith Shillington gives his annual Homecom-
ing kiss to the newly crowned queen, Colleen Bradley, a

Hi)!

rr th,

Ni\\,

i,

 

eee : ee

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

sophomore from Sweet Briar College during the halftime
festivities on Saturday.
 

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 23, 1986

 

Half-ring circus

There was a proposal brought before the EC at last Mon-
day’s meeting that asked to form a committee that would ex-
amine two issues, namely discovery of evidence for the stu-
dent accused of an honor violation and the possiblility of hav-
ing the EC play the role of a prosecutor during an honor trial.

Through discovery, an accused student finds out what
evidence each witness will be presenting against him. An ac-
cused student needs to know this information in order to pro-
perly prepare his defense. It also allows the student to obtain
documents that may be helpful in his defense.

Under the present system, information about and honor of-
fense is often brought out in an unorganized manner during a
trial, according to third year law representative, Jimmy
Humphreys. EC members are free to ask questions, and the
information comes out in bits and pieces. If an EC member
would act as a prosecutor, he could draw out information in a
certain order.

However, the real issue is not whether the EC will adopt
these ideas. The EC voted down the idea of forming the com-
mittee. This seems, in the words of EC representative Louise
Phipps-Senft, “‘very narrow-minded.”’ The EC didn’t seem to
give the proposal a chance. It certainly couldn’t hurt
anything to have a committee just examine the ideas.

Some EC members seemed to make up their mind in the
first few minutes, and desregard any discussion after that
point. There was a complete disregard for parlimentary pro-
cedure (Robert’s Rules of Disorder). Some EC members
were passing notes during the discussion, and at one point
there was a dispute between Humphreys and Andrew
Caruthers over who had been at more honor trials (’’My dad-
dy’s bigger than your’s! Is not!’’).

Particularly disturbing was Caruther’s decision to abstain
from voting on the proposal, after he opposed it so strongly.
He also abstained on the vote to have several EC members
examine the proposal’s ideas and make a presentation at a
special EC meeting. His comment: “‘I can’t vote against hav-
ing additional EC meetings, but I won’t vote for it.’’

The EC needs to remember how important its job is, and
start treating their meetings accordingly. Not every topic the
EC deals with is of earth-shattering importance (the ODK
walkway) and levity has its place, but not during discussions
that may result in revisions of the White Book.

 

      
  
  

"Watch this proposal fly, Brandy.
I named it *Discovery'."

y

 
 

ANDY .
BRANDY”

SHOW

Lived!

AT THe

SS30—0Oq>O“$—0—=$mua

 

* EC >

.
.
7 ae 4

   
  

 

 

Right to know Are we too removed from the real world?

At last Tuesday’s Interfraternity Council meeting, a mo-
tion was passed barring Ring-tum Phi reporters from atten-
ding future council meetings. Eleven fraternities supported
the motion while five abstained; only one opposed it.

The decision came one week after a Phi reporter and editor
were removed from a meeting. After that meeting, a verbal
agreement was reached between IFC President Chris Sax-
man and the editor, which was to allow a Phi reporter to be
present at the next meeting.

At this week’s meeting, Saxman stopped the reporter and
told her that the members were going to vote on whether or
not she could attend the meeting. She was subsequently bar-
red from it.

The Phi realizes the IFC is a private organization, and as
such, is not required to have newspaper reporters cover its
proceedings. However, the IFC represents over 60 percent of
the student body, and even a portion of non-Greek participate
in the social aspects of fraternities. It seems that a council af-
fecting such a sizable amount of students, would understand
the newsworthiness of the business they conduct.

One of the reasons cited for the reporting ban is ‘‘bad
press.”’ First of all, the Ring-tum Phi does not make the
news; it merely reports it. When a fraternity or a brother
gets into trouble with the police, it cannot be brushed aside
for fear of creating a bad name for those involved. The IF'‘C
should be concerned with those responsible for creating the
“‘bad press”’ and not with the reporters covering its meeting.

Secondly, if the Ring-tum Phi is kept from attending
meetings, how can the paper report anything the IFC feels is
important and constructive? The actual meeting should be
one of the primary sources of news for the paper concerning
fraternity business. Banning reporters forces them to rely on
outside sources that may ignore the constructive activities of
fraternities.

Saxman claims the Phi can get everything that happened
in the meetings from him after they are over. What this
amounts to is Saxman controlling what the student body
hears concerning fraternities.

Factual errors happen in every newspaper. They are un-
fortunate but they occur. For those errors that have ap-
peared in the paper, the Phi apologizes.

Hopefully an agreement can be worked out between the
IFC and the Ring-tum Phi. The Phi is not asking to be includ-
ed in every aspect of the IFC meetings; it is only asking that
reporters be allowed to attend some portions of the meetings
in order to assure fair and accurate coverage of an extremely
important aspect of W&L life.

Che Ring-tum Phi

   

NEWS STAFF
COMBMIIATS onc cccccccccccrecrcccccceseccesvocccccesccsescenessserceces Jason Lisi
Sean Bugg

Managing Editor, Entertainment Editor. ........-+++ss++ssseeereees Marshall Boswell
Sports EOF... .... ce eeeceeceeeecscepenesionneneeesenesesssesees David Emrich
Photography Editor..........sccscseseeeecseeeesereresesesssssessenses Perry Hayes
Assistant Sports Editor. ..........sscccceeeceeneerrersreeeeeeeseneseees Mike Shady
EDITORIAL PAGE

. Marie Dunne
Editorial Page Editor .........6:ccceeeceecereeeeneneeeseenesersseses Mai
Capteamlat...vccccccsveccccevcccccscecvccssececcscerscccsocceerones Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Mamager ..........:cceceeseeeceererecneeeeesnrssereceeceees Greg Turley
Advertising Mamager ..........-ssecceeeserceeeeeseescnenssereecesess Robert Jones
Circulation Manager. ........60ccccecceen eee eeeeeeneeeereeeeeseee Mathew Horridge

‘The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450, This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

MY VIEW

By Susan Lewis

 

College students quite often joking-
ly refer to life after graduation as
“the real world,” implying that col-
lege life is a world set apart from a
nine-to-five steady job. And surely
college life is different, but when it
comes right down to the basic ideas
of personal integrity and a sense of
right and wrong, how different can —
or at least should — college life be
from the “real world’’?

Unfortunately it seems that some
people view college as a cover from
both the responsibilities and the laws
of the outside world. With this view
they feel that they should be able to
get away with actions in college that
they would be severely punished for

 

in any other circumstance.

This problem can be clearly seen in
the attitude some students at W&L
have towards drugs. It seems that a
few people believe that the use of
drugs by students should not be

by the Student Conduct
Committee. Instead the use of drugs
is something that should be a stu-
dent’s own business if it is done on a
student’s own time.

Granted, drug use may be a per-
sonal issue or problem up to a certain
point, but when it reaches a level
where someone else gets hurt by it.
or the person gets caught, one has to
face up to the consequence of his ac-
tion. In a situation where the Univer-
sity itself might have to deal with the
problem first before the authorities
are notified, the University cannot let
the problem slide by without action
and still retain its image of honor and
dignity.

Of course college is a unique ex-

perience, and in many ways it cannot
at all be compared to everyday life.
Students are exposed to some situa-
tions only in college and at the same
time totally isolated from ex
periences other people must deal
with daily

But certainly a line must be drawn
somewhere as to where “real life’
stops and the sometimes idealized
college life picks up. It is true that
college life does need to be set
somewhat apart from the nine-to-five
work force so that a student may con-
centrate on studying and learning.

But as in all things, extremes can
be harmful. It seems only logical that
the farther apart the two worlds sit,
the harder it is going to be for
students to adjust upon graduation.
After hearing some of the horror
stories some people like to tell about
how difficult it is both to adjust and
find a job after leaving the realative
safety of W&L, I know that I don’t

 

want to have to deal with any more
problems than I have to.

So the question is one of whether or
not a person should be able to get
away with something (ie. drug
usage) at college that they wouldn’t
be able to get away with elsewhere.
There are a few options. One, the
University could tend to “turn the
other cheek” and pretend not to see
the problem. Second, the University
itself could take action agains he of-
fender. Third, the problem could
simply be turned over to the proper
= authorities for them to deal
with.

A university needs to be a place in
which we learn to the best of our
abilities, but at the same time, a
place from which we leave able to
survive and get along with the “real
world.”’ Thus, while enjoying college,
we need to try not to distance our-
selves too far from the world we’ll be
facing in all too short a time.

 

 

[LETTERS |

 

Outing club offers more than camping equipment

To the Editors:

Have you reached the point in your academic
career where all you can think about is getting
away from campus? And although you would
like to get far away and forget your academic
pressures, you don’t have the time or the money.
Well then, maybe it’s time to think about joining
the OUTING CLUB.

For many years the outing club was a student
run organization that took fellow academians out
to the ‘‘wilderness.’’ In recent years, due to lack
of student interest, the club has turned into a
check out counter for camping equipment.
Although the equipment available is of outstand-
ing quality, the club was intended for more ac-
tive pursuits; it was intended to help generate
student interest in the surrounding natural
areas.

This year an attempt has been made to regen-
erate interest in the club and the great outdoors.
Under the leadership of Rob Lutz and Jenny
Newmark the club is trying to establish a
membership. Last week a small expedition, con-
sisting of Rob, Jenny, Prof. Pemberton, Delia
Ford, Jesse Butfacie and the club mascot, and
myself, hiked up Big House Mountain. Braving
all sorts of terrors of the ‘‘wilderness”’ such as: a
very steep climb without escalators, icky spider
webs in our faces, large unseen animals follow-
ing us, natives shooting off guns, and a thick
mist that penetrated clothing and shut out the
sun, we stoically pushed on to the top. We reach-
ed the top after two hours. This feat would have
proved impossible, without the steady watch-
fulness of Jesse and the wisdom of Prof. Pember-
ton’s guidance. Pemberton, who on reaching the
summit of the goal, pointed out that looking into
the fog gave a visual clue to Nirvana, an in-
teresting analogy, indeed. The whole trip took all
of four hours out of a Sunday afternoon, and
although the group was small everyone had a
good time walking and talking in the woods.

If you are tired of staying around school or just
like the outdoors, check out the Outing Club.
There are no membership fees, transportation is
usually provided, and it will not take a lot of im-
portant time away from your usual weekend ac-

tivities, what ever they may be. Look for notices
on Outing Club activities on the student activities
boards, there’s one right outside the Co-op.

Will Kubly

Alumni grateful to APO
To the Editors:

On behalf of the Alumni Office I would like to
extend my thanks to Steve Pockrass and Alpha
Phi Omega for all your help in making Home-
coming Weekend so successful. I cannot say
enough about how important the APO drivers
were to the University’s efforts. While it may
seem like an insignificant detail to most people,
the transportation of our older alumni to and
from the weekend activities was critical in mak-
ing Homecoming so successful for everyone. I
know that the Five-Star Generals and their wives
appreciated it.

Alpha Phi Omega provided a much needed ser-
vice for the University, and we are grateful to
its members. Thanks to Steve Pockrass for his
efforts on behalf of Washington and Lee.

James D. Farrar, Jr.
Assistant Alumni Secretary

Professor upset by trash
To the editors:

Why doesn’t the Student Government get the
Students to pick up the litter; or buy a large
playpen?

Milton Colvin
Professor of Politics

Pyle distrusts Soviets

To the editors:

As alumnus and as merchant, I have hesitated
to respond to even the more egregious follies of

the new W&L. But young Smith’s last two “My
View”’ columns require that some voice of the
Old (Real) W&L be raised in protest.

It might have been excusable, even in a senior
and an ROTC cadet, for Mr. Smith so wildly to
mistake the Administration's position in Reyk-
javik. But coming atop his ‘Bambi-in-the
Orient” plea for US-USSR touchy-feely contact,
his attack on Regan-tactics was too much for this
Byrd Democrat to stomach.

One would rather think that any student of
politics would be aware that the Soviet misgov-
ernment’s diplomatic history consists solely of
seven decades of dishonor. Only twice have they
abided by the terms of any treaty into which they
entered: Brept-hitorsk, 1917, and the Ribben-
trop-Mototor Pact which allowed the rape of
Poland. Apparently, Smith is not cognizant of
how little ‘‘Soviet good faith” means. I say, ap-
parently: for only on this supposition is Smith’s
criticism fo the President’s negotiation strategy
explicable.

Well, there is one other explanation. Last time
‘round, Smith recounted his boozy attempt at
detente with a couple of KGB goons — yes, KGB:
janitors don’t go abroad to study, nor are they
safe to make such contracts with citizens of
Glavniy Vrag, the Great Enemy, the USA. His
actions are consonant with the theory that the
man’s an idiot, truly an ‘innocent abroad.” But
it could also point to knavery. Of the two, I am
more inclined to suppose that young Smith falls
in the class of those Lenin labeled ‘‘useful fools.’’
In either case, this thought that men of your col-
umnist’s caliber are being churned out by my
alma mater, and, words, that such are being of-
fered communications in the US Armed Ser-
vices, is horrifying. If Smith and those like him
refuse to learn the lessons of political history, my
advice to the rest of you is ample: LEARN RUS-
SIAN. You’ll need it.

Sincerely,
Markham §. Pyle, ’84
Lexington, Virginia

 

 
NEWS
LEXICON
By Steven Pockrass

LT tas te, et Ne ty i ra r~-— Kw

el et ll eli tial heal el

Does Washington and Lee really
benefit from having a student-run,
or perhaps miss-run, campus?

Three years ago, our seemingly
megalomaniacal Executive Com-
mittee president considered ap-
pearing on national television to
argue that W&L students should
have been required to wear ties to
class. Also that year, this same
EC president was found guilty of
“tampering with the jury’’ before
an open honor trial.

Last year, the Calyx, our year-
and-a-halfbook, arrived six
months late. The Ariel, our
literary magazine, included
photos cut out of a university
library book.

On Saturday night, just one
week after a daylong symposium
on issues facing fraternities at
W&L, a freshman with a .29 blood-
alcohol level was struck by two
cars on Washington Street.
Earlier that evening, he pledged a
fraternity whose members in-
clude the president of the student
body, the president of the Inter-
fraternity Council, a handful of
dorm counselors and other stu-
dent leaders. No one was responsi-
ble enough to get that student
back to his dorm room safely.

The Phi has had problems, too.
A few weeks ago, senior John
Cummings lambasted this paper
for violating simple conflict-of-
interest rules. As he pointed out,
many of Reid Hall’s better jour-
nalism students have been scared
away by poor personnel manage-
ment at the Phi the past few
years. This year’s editors have
done the best job they could, given
their limited experience.

Recently, some changes have
occurred at the Phi. I hope these
will result in a more exciting
paper that focuses on student opi-
nion and the effect of national
issues on campus, and includes
probing investigations about
topics of importance to W&L.

You can assist in this effort by
volunteering to write about sub-
jects that interest you. You can
help the Phi find more news by
calling 463-8581 to report story
ideas and breaking news.

You can make this a better
paper.

More student responsibility is
needed if we are to make this a
better school. But this is not
enough. We need a more active
faculty adviser system. If the EC,
which should really be named the
ELJC (Executive, Legislative and
Judicial Committee), were to take
a student survey, I bet the results
would show that most of us think
that students have too much
power on this campus, too much
responsibility. As the above ex-
amples show, we have not been
responsible enough to warrant
maintaining such a high level of
student power.

What often seems to separate
the strong and weak organizations
on this campus is the quality of the
edvisers. Students come and go,
but advisers provide experience
ard continuity.

Some of you may argue that ad-
visers are not better than student
leaders simply because they are
older. After all, who would want
“Tricky Dick” Nixon as an ad-
viser? You may contend that the
only way for us to learn is from
our own mistakes.

How many thousands of student
tax dollars must we continue to
waste to learn that these
arguments do not hold water?
How long can we continue under a
system lacking in checks and
balances? Haven’t all the
mistakes we’ve made taught us
that our current system is not the
best?

Or will we need a publicized
abuse of the honor system, a libel
suit, a liability suit, or a year
without a campus publication to
teach us a costly lesson?

 

 

 

3

 

 

  

Dedication

The Chavis House at 10 Lee Avenue was dedicated Satur-
day afternoon. Taking part in the ceremony were Anece
F. McCloud, (left), associate dean of students for minori-
ty affairs at Washington and Lee University and Dana

Senior arrested on

assault charge

 

aa
i tly

By W. Patrick Hiniey L

Jon Bolden (right), W&L sophomore and vice-president
of the Minority Student Association. The Chavis House
serves as cultural center and residence for minority
students at Washington and Lee.

He gave chase and the two culprits Ring-tum Phi co-editor Jason

iV discarded his bike, which Kubly | Lisi resigned from his position on

recovered. No arrests have been the student newspaper Tuesday at

. : made in the case. a meeting of the University
Police arrested senior Randy — Ajso, junior Tom O’Brien reported Publications Board.

Brown on a charge of assault follow-
ing an incident early Sunday morn-
ing, police record said.

Brown allegedly struck Earl R.
McClanahan, 26, of Alexandria, at a
Phi Delta Theta fraternity party.

McClanahan received four stiches
above his right eye following his in-
jury.

Senior Will Kubly foiled a robbery
attempt at his house at 701 N. Main
St., said police.

Kubly reported he came across two

young men removing his $600 ‘‘Trek”’

last Thursday.

Street.

his Volkswagen Jetta was damaged
sometime early Friday morning.

The driver’s door, hood and a
brake light suffered an estimated
$350 damage. The car was parked at
201 E. Nelson Street.

Mary Baldwin student Jeanette
Andrews reported almost $500 worth
of items stolen from her car early

Missing were a Walkman, $250; a
35mm camera, $300; and miscellan-
eous items totaling about $35. An-
drews left the car at 106 N. Main

Lisi, a junior from Hockessin,
Del., was appointed as co-editor of
the weekly newspaper with
sophomore Sean Bugg last May.
Bugg will remain as the sole
editor.

Lisi had worked for the paper
since his freshman year and is a
member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon
social fraternity. His professional
experience includes work for the
Associated Press, the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, and the Daily
Local News (West Chester , Pa.).

 

bicycle from his porch, _

 

NEWS BRIEFS

Symposium discusses role of Greeks

 

Staff Reports

 

The maintenance of a strong fraternity system at
Washington and Lee and the role the system plays at
the university were among the topics discussed at a re-
cent symposium on fraternities at W&L.

The symposium, sponsored by the Alumni Fraternity
Council, brought together representatives of the 17
fraternities on the campus, faculty advisers, members
of the administration, and representatives from the na-
tional headquarters of several national fraternities.

The purpose of the symposium, according to Paul
J.B. Murphy, president of the Alumni Fraternity Coun-
cil, ‘‘is to give broad visibility to the alumni’s interest in
the renassiance of the fraternity system and the main-
tenance of that system in such a manner as to best sup-
port university and fraternity goals.”

Among the topics discussed during the symposium
were the impact of fraternities on a student’s quality of
life at W&L, university regulations, the goals and ex-
pectations of individual students upon joining a frater-
nity, liability, insurance, legal and alcohol issues facing
fraternities, and the rehabilitation and maintenance of
fraternity houses.

The Alumni Fraternity Council may issue a “white
paper’’ containing findings and recommendations on
how best to ensure the survival of a vibrant and con-
structive fraternity system at Washington and Lee.

Former KGB official to speak

Stanislav Levchenko, the highest-ranking KGB of-
ficer ever to defect to the United States, will speak in
Lee Chapel on Thursday, Oct. 30, at 7:30 p.m.

Levchenko’s appearance is being sponsored by Con-
tact, a joint project of the W&L Interfraternity Council
and the Executive Committee of the student body. The
lecture is free and open to the public.

A native of Moscow, Levchenko went to work in 1965
for Soviet organizations affiliated directly with the in-
ternational department of the central committee of the
Soviet Communist Party.

The KGB Foreign Intelligence Service recruited him
as a staff operations officcr. He was stationed in Japan
from 1975 to 1979 under the cover of bureau chief of the
Soviet international affairs weekly magazine ‘New
Times.” In that capacity he was involved in gathering
political information and implementing large-scale
Soviet convert actions in Japan and other countries in
the Far East.

In 1979 he was promoted to the rank of major in the
KGB and was appointed chief of the convert action
group of the KGB’s Tokyo residency. In October of that
year he sought political asylum in the United States.

Author to visit campus

Robert Pinsky, award-winning poet, critic and
author, will visit Washington and Lee October 29-31 to
give a series of lectures and a reading from his works.

His first lecture, “American Poetry and American
Life,”’ will be Wednesday, October 29, at 4:30 p.m.
“Freneau, Whitman, Williams” will be the topic of his
second lecture, to be given Thursday, October 30, at
4:30 p.m. That evening, Pinsky will lecture on ‘Some

Passages of Isaiah’”’ at 8:30 p.m. All lectures will be in
Room 327 of the Commerce School.

Pinsky will give a reading from his works Friday,
October 31, at 4:15 p.m. in the Northen Auditorium of
the University Library. The lectures and the reading
are open to the public.

“History of My Heart’’ (The Ecco Press, 1984), Pin-
sky’s most recent book of poems, was awarded the
William Carlos Williams Prize of the Poetry Society of
America. His earlier works include ‘Sadness and Hap-
piness” (Princeton, 1975) and “An Explanation of
piness” (Princeton, 1980) and ‘The Situation of
Poetry,” a book of criticism.

Pinksy is also co-translator of ‘The Separate
Notebooks,” poems by Nobel Prize winner Czeslaw
Milosz. His poems, essays and translations have ap-
peared in publications ranging from ‘‘The New Yorker”
and ‘“‘The New York Times Book Review’ to “Critical
Inquiry” and “Ironwood”. His works have also ap-
peared in many anthologies including ‘‘The Norton An-
thology of American Literature’ and ‘The Harvard
Book of Contemporary Poetry.”’

Pinsky holds a B.A. degree from Rutgers University
and M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Stanford University.
He has taught at Wellesley, Harvard and the University
of Chicago. Until recently, Pinsky served as poetry
editor of ‘‘The New Republic.’’ He now teaches creative
writing at the University of California, Berkeley.

Pinsky’s visit is sponsored by the Glasgow Endow-
ment, a bequest made in 1960 by Arthur Graham Glas-
gow “to promote the art of expression by pen and

tongue.

Hoosier paintings to be displayed

An exhibit of 41 prints created by Indiana University
graduate students over the last 13 years will be on
display in Washington and Lee University’s duPont
Gallery from October 27 to November 19.

The traveling exhibition is comprised of lithographs,
intaglios, screenprints, woodcuts, computer prints,
silver prints and other media. The diversity of the
works serves to emphasize the experimental atmos-
phere encouraged by faculty members at Indiana Uni-
versity.

DuPont Gallery hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday
through Friday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday, and 2 to 4
p.m. Sunday. The exhibit is free and open to the public.

Project |.D. protects property

The Washington and Lee Security Department is con-
tinuing a program it hopes will discourage thieves on
and off campus.

Project I.D. is a program which valuables are per-
manently marked with an engraving tool with the
owner’s Virginia Driver’s License or Social Security
number. The identification numbers help police when
stolen goods are recovered. They provide a reference
for locating the rightful owner.

William C. Datz, assistant proctor at W&L, said any
number of items from bicycles, cameras, and stereos to
sewing machines, typewriters, and sporting goods can
be engraved.

Project I.D. continues through November 21. It is
open to all members of the University community.

 

 

 

Student
struck

by cars

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Freshman Mike Nunan was struck
by a car crossing Jefferson at
Washington Street on his way home
from a fraternity that he had pledged
earlier that evening.

Nunan said he was running to keep
warm and tried to make a yellow
light at the corner, but did not beat
the oncoming traffic.

He struck one car, rolled off of it,
and was struck by another that had
just started to move.

Nunan received several cuts to the
head and “a pretty banged up”
knee, he said, but tests showed no
serious damage.

Slow reactions by Nunan following
the accident had doctors at Stonewall
Jackson Hospital worried, and he
was transferred for tests to the
trauma unit of a Roanoke hospital,
which released him midday Monday.

No charges have been filed against
either Nunan or the drivers of the
cars involved, according to police
records. 5

 

Lisi resigns as Phi
co-editor due to grades

Lisi said his grades were suffer-
ing too much from his duties on
the newspaper and if he were to
continue, his plans to attend law
school could be jeopardized. “I
cannot fail out of college and still
edit the paper,”’ his resignation
letter said.

The Ring-tum Phi is
Washington and Lee’s only
student-run newspaper. The
paper’s circulation is 3,000 and
about 400 copies are sent to
parents and other outside
subscribers in the United States.
Funding for the paper comes
primarily from advertising and
from a portion of the student ac-
tivities fee.

 

 

What was the best

or the worst aspect

of Homecoming

last weekend?

Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

Photographs by
MATHEW HORRIDGE

 

 

Chrisopher de Movellan, Sopho-
more, Lexingotn, Ky. ‘I didn’t
have a date on Friday, and I had
three on Saturday.”’

TALKBACK

Jim Barker, Senior, Tampa, Fla.
“Well, that’s obvious, the football
game. We made that team look
unbelievable.”’

 

Leigh Anne Netterville, Fresh-
man, Baton Rouge, La. ‘‘Probably
all the alumni coming back, and
everybody getting more excited
about all the sports and things.”’

 

Corky Parkinson, Senior, Colum-
bia, Md. ‘‘I didn’t have to go to the
bathroom as much, but I wish
there had been beer.”’

 

 

 

 

Mike Suttle, Junior, Abilene, Tx.
“The importing of good looking
girls and the good afternoon cock-
tail parties.”’

 
 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 23, 1986

Caruthers also questioned whether

- C it would be better for these issues to

be handled by the White Book Revi-

sions Committee, which could make

a recommendation at the end of the

year. Any changes could be im-

plemented at the beginning of the

Menon continued by sayingthatthe following school year so as to avoid
EC tries to avoid an adversarial confusing the student body.

situation. Rather it attempts to serve

as a fact-finding body. He stated that : :
an orderly presentation of the facts defeated in a 3-8-1 vote, a second mo-

results from careful selection of the 1 was made to schedule oe
order in which the various witnesses of the EC for the Perpese & Gacuse-
wecoited ing these very issues in greater
= detail. The motion passed, and the

Senior representative Andrew Executive Committee decided to ap-
Caruthers pointed out the factthatan point four members to serve on a
orderly presentation of the facts is committee which will closely ex-
not necessarily the best method aS amine these issues and lead the
long as all of the facts eventually un- discussion at the November 3rd
fold. meeting of the EC.

“Orderliness is not always prac- In other EC action:
tical,” he commented in a telephone
interview. Caruthers explained that Second year law representative
members of the EC may return to David Nave reported that he checked
certain points several times so as toon the situation in the Woods Creek
clarify them in their own minds. stom 3 lot. After consulting a.

. posed ; eable sources, it was apparent to
ee ne oe Nave that the best option available to
ag the the EC was to take no action at the
serving as a prosecutor on + tee ed th istin
grounds that it would be, in effect, Presen i nae @ existing
“stacking the deck” against an ac- Space was being to its max-

, : Performing Arts is synonymous
sytem, the enie commitee a5 dune ee with culture which is all too often
system, the entire committee asks He added that the EC might wish to

 

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

A Foreign Study and Inter- af
collegiate Exchange Programs in- ‘f
formation session sponsored by
the Foreign Study Committee,
will be held Tuesday, Oct. 21 at 7 a
p.m. in the Student Center, Room
114. Information presented will in-
clude: foreign study and inter-
collegiate exchange programs in
genoral; specific information
about the Seven College Exchange
Program (Hollins, Sweet Briar,
etc.), African and Asian studies in
London, and about WLU pro-
grams during spring term in
France, Germany, Great Britain,
Japan, Mediterranean area,
Spain, Taiwan (Spring and Sum-
mer), Galapagos Islands, Sum-
mer Study at Oxford, and acade-
mic-year programs in Hong Kong,
Oxford, and Tokyo and a
semester-long program near
Kyoto.

Continued from Page 1!

af

¢
After Humphreys’ proposal was

a

 

-——_>_1+_$-s_t-4- 4 4 2 24 2

 

 

 

- = =
ae. eens een Deel

 

 

 

synonymous with expensive.
relevant questions, without one par- re-evaluate the situation after the h | By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi Because of the university’s sub- Y
licular member serving as the lead new parking lot at Piney Wods is AICOHOl awareness gumlsarendiencmndge | +
prosecutor. completed. A special panel discussion, ‘‘The Law and Alcohol,” Andrew W. McThenia, Jr., District Court Judge Joseph Concert-Theatre Series, W&L ‘
was held Wednesday night in Lee Chapel, in conjunc- | Hess, Commonwealth’s Attorney Caroline Watts, and students, including law students,
tion with Alcohol Awareness Week, which continues Chief of Police L.O. Sutton. may attend RCTS performances
until Oct. 23. Included in the panel were law professor at no charge.

$8 d t 2 This is an ideal eppertuity to
extra spending money. He works ten V Mi | : t ane gee

t u e n S to eleven hours a week split between a n e a rl Uu : ] } ro fa m ly. RCTS offers a diverse series of
a Wednesday afternoon shift and one five events, this year including

Continued from Page 1 or two shifts on the weekends. Sarat, Os:

. . > S sous .
able,’’ said manager Matt Morris. food, Sous com A ends. “I i 00 ks at S pace d i scove rl es reg gt Me dae

There is a 2-6 week training period rarely eat in the dining hall,” says

=-3— FS

 

=

Ae SG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
      
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
   

 

  
  

 

 
 
  
    

 

/ , The schedule is:
for new employees. ‘They must be Lewelling, ‘‘so I need extra money years ago, by an amateur astronomer in Rockbridge Oct. 26, 3 p.m. — Ballet Gran
responsible for the job they are hired for food.”’ The hours are flexible aan ~epieaae County. DuPuy uses his own telescope for instructing his Folklorico de Mexico — Lexington | ,
to do.”” said Morris. Sometimes because waiters sign up for the shifts oe “—. t | tind Viti ‘atta High School ie
students say they can work and then they prefer. Any conflicts are decid- tee ae SS Bagh Nov. 18, 8 p.m. — Eugene Fodor, ,
do not stick to the commitment. This _ ed by seniority. Earlier this month residents had a close encounter with _ noon, is entitled The Military Role in Space,” and its Violin Virtuoso — Lee Chapel lb
year student employees include Lewelling says that he likes to wait objects from outer space. members include Lt. Gen. James A. Abrahamson, Di- Dec. 7, 3 p.m. — Joffrey Il le
Thomas Maurer, a senior; Chris on his friends, even though it is a lit- No aliens materialized on Main Street and no flying _ rector of the Strategic Defense Initiative popularly call- Dancers — Lexington High School
Brand, a sophomore; Graham tle awkward ‘because they are “‘ac- Saucers were spotted. Instead, the scene was the Sale ed “‘Star Wars.’’ Robert Walquist of TRW, Dr. Lou Mar- Feb. 11, 8 p.m. — Dirty Dozen
Loomis, a sophomore; Jack Moore,a_ cepting of ‘mistakes” and ‘they Planetarium at Virginia Military Institute. quet of SDI, and John Watterson, a shuttle astronaut. Brass Band — JM Hall, VMI
senior; and Jeff Lewelling, a always leave a big tip.” He will pro- VMI's astronomy department presented a 15-minute The panel follows the opening remarks, a keynote ad- April 22, 8 p.m. — AMADEUS — .
freshman. bably continue to work through Program on the discoveries of the spaceship Voyager 2 at dress at 3:55 by Dr. Jay Sculley, Assistant Secretary of Southern Sem
Lewelling began working as a graduation because, he says, “it’s a the planet Uranus. An introduction to the constellations _ the Army for Research, Development and Acquisition. The price is right, theeventsare |
waiter at Spanky’s last week to earn _blast!”’ of the fall sky followed the slideshow. At 9 Friday morning, the 17th, a panel on “Interna- fun, the locations are close. What
Col. David L. DuPuy, professor of astronomy at VMI, tional Space Cooperation” features Ian Pryke of the more could you ask for?
s conducted the program, which was followed by a trip to European Space Agency, James Morrison of NASA ’ I
The Phi needs YOU | A the VMI observatory where space rarities such a8 Headquarters, and Louis Laidet of the French Em- a
s ee globular clusters and exploding stars were pointed out to bassy. See eee tle
: : q ' ‘ the audience, half of which were children. = th The 10:30 panel, ‘‘Man in Space: Then and Now,”’ in-
lf you are interested in working as a The show, including the observatory trip if wea re cludes Maj. Gen. James W. Humphreys, who was Dean Anne C.P. Schroer is of- | gly
a be art at . oa 23. TI NASA’s medical director for the early manned space fering two Choice of Major 1
ser tngenee tytn Sement of Freston Library, With rogram, and the nation’s first Black astronaut, Maj. Workshops for sophomores who
reporter, photographer, proofreader vr ee anal rab oie ee suid i ei Guion Bluford. may be contemplating a change of ‘
‘ : ‘ . : major or are ready to confirm a f
layout designer, we would welcome throughout the school year, introducing seasonal con- The final panel, at 1:30-on a: naan ae of major setae 1 vanlatre- x
stellations and discussing recent discoveries in space. Future Directions in Space Commercialization. tit for Winter / Spring terms {
: ’ ‘ lley’s Comet Will be manned by Robert Brumley of the Department . the
Ou to our staff He said last year’s excitement over Halley asa The Workshops are scheduled
y : spurred his largest crowds in the four years he’s been at Of Commerce and three representatives of major com- for Monday, October 27 from 3:00 "
VMI. More than 100 people waited in line for a chance to mercial space engineering firms. They include David -5:00 p.m. and Tuesday, October | ‘¥
Hannah of Space Services, Inc.; John Egan from the a ee yy
glimpse the comet. Center for S d Advanced Technology: and Lt 28 from 3:00 - 5:00 p.m. in Room h
The average crowd for the planetarium, which seats 35, €Nver for space and Advan echnonogy; & . 109 of University Center. Because
: : ‘ Gen. Bruce K. Brown, USAF (Ret.), now with BDM In- a ,
is approximately fifteen. ested taf hich i iat the ‘en of limited enrollment, students
The VMI planetarium was built about 30 years agoand © rnational, the firm which is sponsoring , are asked to sign up by calling ,
is now used mostly for local school groups. A telescope, ‘erence. 463-8590 or by stopping by Mrs.
HERRING TRAVEL said DuPuy, is much more important for teaching col- = At 2:55 there will be a closing session for final Calkins’ desk in University
. lege-level students. remarks. The Corps of Cadets will parade at 4 p.m. in Center.
SERVICES INC The telescope itself in VMI’s observatory was built 20 honor of the guests.
4 e
LEXING P are
e =
Lexington Shoe Hospital

For Special Thanksgiving FOR PAPPAGALLO

 

  

Downtown Lexington — a, Clothing Pn ee Collegiate

i __andAccessories __ ntrepreneurs will meet Tues-

! (Expert Shoe Repair) ( .) day, October 28th, 7:00 in Room

and Christmas fares, | students and faculty are urged to
Op attend,

       
   

see Herring Travel now. We have a complete stock of Vibram Sole Sets—

for hiking and foul weather
3 West Nelson Street,

|
a | 221 of the C-school. All interested
|

   

    

Lexington, Va

463-2197 41 S. Main St.

 

 

 

 

 

Ten W&L men will meet ten
Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-
lege students for a daylong series
of discussions and structured ac-
tivities relating to communication
skills and self-awareness. Thé
program will originate at the
University Center at 9:30 a.m.,
Sunday, Oct. 26th. W&L students
will carpool to the beautiful
Skylark estate on the Blue Ridge
Parkway. Lunch will be provided.
The return to campus will be com-
pleted by 5:00 p.m. To participate
please contact Mrs. Carol Calkins,
the University Center recep-
tionist, at ext. 8590 (or stop by in
person). Inquiries are welcome;
there is no cost for this program.

 

   

As a Marine Officer, you could be in charge of a or junior, ask about our Platoon Leaders Class
Mach 2 + F/A-18A, a vertical take-off Harrier or program. If you're a senior, check out our Officer
one of our other jets or helicopters. And you could Candidate Class programs. Starting salaries are
do it by the time you're 23. But it takes a special from $18,000 to $24,000. And you can —
commitment on your part. We count on going

 

demand leaders at all levels. farther . . . faster.
We teach you to be one. If Go farther, oe

you're a freshman, sophomore,

Were looking for a few good men.

faster.

   
   

The second and most important
meeting of the Journal of Science
will be held on Monday, Oct. 27, at
7:00 p.m. in Parmly 305. Topics to
be discussed include article for-
mat requirements, due dates for
articles, funding, and the selec-
tion of editors for 1987-88. Contact
Craig Monroe for further details.

Wy
rt

, ll. ;
HOW FAR WILL YOUR TALENT TAKE YOU? | ,e"congane.on tt campes wil

be conducted next Wednesday,
October 29th. The American
Graduate School of International
Business — Thunderbird Campus

Apply for the TIME College Achievement profiled in a special promotional section of
Awards and find out. TIME Magazine is search- TIME. Eighty finalists will receive $250 each.

 

ing for 100 college juniors who have distinguished —_ All 100 students will be given first consideration | and Independent Educational Ser-
themselves by their excellence, in academics and, _ for internships with participating corporations. vices (private school teaching)
den 2 EE = more importantly, exceptional achievement out Deadline for applications is December 31, | Will be represented from 9:00 a.m.
d ; side the classroom 1986. Details at your dean’s office or call 1-800- | Until 4:00 p.m. Seniors who want
The top 20 winners will be awarded $2,500 and — 523-5948. In Pennsylvania, call 1-800-637-8509. to sign up, please see Mrs. Hen- Pe

neman in the office of Career
Development and Placement in
University Center,

The College Achievement Awards

 

 

See Capt. Berger at the University Co-op today.

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 23, 1986, Page 5

 

 

 

Homecoming 1986

   

   

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum P

General Public’s Dave Wakeling (left) and Ranking Roger (right) played for a crowd of approximately 1,100 people Friday

 

 

 

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum F

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

General Public’s saxophone player, Saxa.

 

       

“ c
ie ae Ae ~
pe Be phe age S
ind ie

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Colleen Bradley,
sophomore from Sweet Bri:
College, was named Hom
A W&L varsity player scores against alumnus John DiDuro. The Upper Field hosted the Oktoberfest before the game. coming Queen.

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi ee ee eee : By Perry Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi
 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 23, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sophomore Tom Rawls stops a Richmond shot in the first period. Rawls had nine

saves on the day.

Squids deep six the Generals

Hampden-Sydney spoils Homecoming

 

by JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

 

Generals head coach Gary Fallon
was assured of his first losing season
in seven years Saturday, as
Hampden-Sydney rolled to a 45-14
victory over Washington and Lee.
The Tigers spoiled W&L’s homecom-
ing by outgaining the Generals in
total yardage by a 3-to-1 margin, and
Fallon said after the game that
Hampden-Sydney was “the best
team we’ve played, both offensively
and defensively.”’

The Tigers led 7-0 after only three
minutes of play on a touchdown pass
by quarterback Robby Waldrop to
tight end Dan Newell. Later in the
period, Jimmy Hondroulis added a
24-yard field goal, his ninth suc-

cessful kick in as many attempts this
season. Hampden-Sydney exploded
with three touchdowns in the second
quarter, the first coming on a 4-yard
run by Waldrop. Less than two
minutes later, Waldrop hit tailback
David Kelley from three yards out
for a 24-0 lead. But the Tigers weren’t
through yet, as fullback Willie Fobbs
scored on a 1-yard dive play with 2:35
remaining in the half, giving the
Tigers a 31-0 lead at the intermission.

Through the first two periods, the
Tigers crushed the Generals in every
statistical category, including first
downs (16-4), rushing yards (263-47),
and passing yards (93-7). Hampden-
Sydney outgained the Generals in
total offensive yardage by a seven-to-
one margin. The Generals led in only
one category: they out-punted the
Tigers, 3-0. Fallon later called the

first two periods ‘‘as poor a first half
as we’ve ever played.”’

But things didn’t get any better for
the Generals in the second half. With
Kevin Weaver out because of a possi-
ble ankle injury, the Generals offense
soon completed the collapse it had
begun in the first two periods. Quar-
terback Jon Thornton completed only
1 of 8 passes in the first half, and he
completed only three more in the sec-
ond before Fallon pulled his starters.
For the day, Thornton threw as many
as interceptions as completions.
Three of his passes were picked off
by defensive corner Jack Barber,
and two of those interceptions were
made in the end zone. The fourth in-
terception was returned 58 yards by
defensive back Tommy Graziano for
the only scoring in the third period.

C) See Football, page 7

 

By Mathew Horridge/The Ring-tum Phi

 

  

WE WANT YOU
TO PHOTOGRAPH

PARTY PICS!

Photographers needed at local campuses this semester!
Campus Manager needed also!

 

 

 

Great Money!
Fun Time!

(Need good 35mm camera & strobe)

MATHIS STUDIO
Attn: Randy Mathis
7124 Forest Hill Avenue
Richmond, VA 23225
Phone (804) 320-0580

CALL TODAY
OR WRITE:

Polo swats Spiders

Team to ready itself for championships

 

By MATHEW HORRIDGE
Staff Reporter

 

The Generals finally have snared
the elusive Spiders — the Spiders of
the University of Richmond’s water
polo team.

Washington and Lee downed the
Spiders, 6-4, in Twombly Pool on Sun-
day for the first time in two years.

“We got the monkey off our back,”
said head coach Page Remillard.

The Generals matched up against
the Spiders Sunday afternoon in the
final game of the second round of the
Southern League Championships.

“TI knew we could beat Richmond if
we played up to our potential,” said
Remillard. ‘‘We were healthy and
prepared.”’

The Generals came out of the
locker room ready to face their ar-
chrivals and stormed out to a 2-0 lead
in the first quarter.

The first half ended with the
Generals holding on to a one-goal ad-
vantage at 3-2.

In the third quarter, W&L
established a two-goal lead over the
Spiders which they never relinquish-
ed.

Ch

“That was the biggest win I’ve had
in three seasons,’’ said co-captain
Simon Perez, who threw in two goals
against the Spiders.

Sophomore David Reavy scored
three goals and senior Kevin Lederer
tossed in one goal in the Generals’
winning effort against Richmond.

“That was one of the better team
games I've seen played in my eight
years at W&L,”’ said Remillard.

Remillard said if he had to pick a
most valuable player, it would be his
shallow-end goalies, both the one who
played the Richmond game and the
one who did not.

Sophomore Tom Rawls stopped
nine Richmond shots and allowed but
one goal in the shallow end. The
Generals use a different goalie when
they are defending the net in the deep
end of the pool.

Senior Jeff Cohen, who didn’t play
against Richmond, also received
praise from Remillard.

“Both those guys had intense prac-
tice sessions last week and pushed
each other,’’ Remillard said. ‘Rawls
may have gotten the glory but Cohen
deserves a lot of credit, too.”

“He [Rawls] was fantastic,’’ Perez
said. “That got everyone inspired.”

The Generals beat Mary Washing-
ton 23-0, George Washington 9-1 and
the University of North Carolina-
Wilmington 11-10, on Saturday,
Before the afternoon showdown with
Richmond, W&L beat Lynchburg
College, 18-4, Sunday morning.

Remillard said the UNC-Wilming-
ton game was not as close as the
score indicated because the team lost
much of its intensity after the first
string players were pulled in the first
quarter.

The Generals have this weekend
off to prepare for you know who
— Richmond.

W&L will face the Spiders Satur-
day, Nov. 1 at 7:30 p.m. at the
University of Richmond in the final
round of the Southern League Cham-
pionships.

Richmond defeated the Generals in
the first round of the tournament two
weeks ago.

Richmond is going in to the final
round as the first seed and W&L is
the second seed.

“We must keep up our intensity
and high level of play in order to win
again,” said Remillard.

0 See Polo, page 7

 

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Tom Waskiewicz throws a halfback option pass in Saturday’s 45-14
loss. Waskiewicz was intercepted on the play.

Cross country jogs past Division | VCU

 

By ANN STEWART
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
cross country team brought its
record for the 1986 season to 5-2 on
saturday.

They won over the Division I
Virginia Commonwealth team 25-32
in Richmond.

Senior Ted Myers led the men’s
team to victory with a time of 26.29
for the five-mile course.

The Generals also had the third
through fifth place finishers. Junior
Scott Rippeon placed third with a
time of 26:46, senior Ash Andrews
ran fourth at 27:02, and junior
Richard Moore finished fifth at 27:15.

A mere 35 seconds separated the
General’s top four runners. ‘We are
winning with our top three or four
men, whose times are very close,”’
said head coach Dick Miller.

Meanwhile, the women’s team lost
to VCU by a score of 15-45, dropping

its record to 0-2.

Sophmore Stephanie Smith, the top
finisher for W&L, placed seventh on
the 3.1 mile course with a time of
23:32. Coach Jim Phemister says of
the womens team,” The team is
working hard and getting a lot out of
its workouts and the race experience.
I am proud of the way we are pro-
gressing.”’

Both teams will travel to Bridge-
water for a tri-meet including West
Virginia Tech this weekend.

 

 

 

Come to the Phi office tonight at 7:30

and you are guaranteed an assignment

 

 

  
     
         
     
     
 
      
      

 

WEET BRIAR COLLEGE

College |.D.
&
Valid Driver’s License

REQUIRED

 

   

London Leather
Boot Shoppe Ltd.

Lexington-B.V. Shopping Center near D.M.V.
One day Service on all work—
and all leather work!
Excellent Shoe Repair!

 

 

 

  

 

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver,
China and Crystal

Wm. L. Hess, Jr.
Owner

121S. Main St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

(703) 463-2833

 

 

 

presents

WAXING POETICS

Sat., 9 p.m.-1 a.m., *3°° Cover Charge

and

INN-O-VATION IN THE DELL

Sunday, 1 p.m.-5 p.m.

  

=
The Ring-tum Phi, October 23, 1986, Page 7

 

 
   

 

> .
ee

4,%

=

nae
"

  

 

(==: By GARY McCULLOUGH
io Staff Reporter

 

Se
i
,

After skating smoothly past six
“consecutive opponents the soccer
* Generals hit thin ice last week.

’ Washington and Lee was shut out
by a powerful Gettysburg squad, but
rebounded to score a narrow over-
* time victory against Eastern Men-

 

te Oe
ee Jt

ne

Sophmore Jamie Urso (18) heads the ball against Gettysburg on Saturday as
<::senior Peter Van Son (4) looks on.

nonite.

, The Generals began the week at
home, facing Gettsysburg on Smith
Field last Saturday.

Although the Generals have been
scoring well recently, Gettysburg, a
team that has been ranked in the
Division III Top 20 for most of the
year, iced the Generals offense en
route toa 2-0 victory.

Head coach Rolf Piranian termed
the performance ‘‘midterm depres-
sion,’’ but senior team captain Peter

Senior Randy Brown shares a pass in Saturdays loss.

Football

 

Continued from Page 6

back Chris Smythe scored four
minutes later from one yard out, pro-
viding the final murmur of protest
from the Generals ina 45-14 rout.
: Evaluating the game as a whole,
s Fallon was extremely disappointed
; with his team. ‘You can’t play that
kind of football against a good foot-
pall team,” said Fallon. “What was
/ really concerning to me was the fact
that we weren’t playing aggressive
football. That bothers me more than
anything,’ he said.

Consequently, Fallon says that
changes in personnel for this week’s
game against the University of the
South at Sewannee are not unlikely.
If, in reviewing film of the Hampden-
. Sydney game, ‘we feel that some
* — people aren’t performing up to their

 

capabilities, we’re going to make
some changes. My job is to find some
football players who really want to
win,”

Looking at Sewanee, Fallon is con-
cerned that the Generals will take ‘‘a
wait-and-see” attitude, in which case
W&L “will be in for another long
afternoon.”’ Sewanee “‘is a scrappy
outfit,”’ he said. “‘They throw the ball
all over the place.”’ The Tigers have
two quarterbacks, both of whom
have good mobility as well as good
arms, said Fallon. ‘‘We’re going to
have our hands full. If we don’t get
some intensity, we will be beaten
again.”

HASHMARKS—Running _ back
Kevin Weaver played virtually the
entire first half against Hampden-
Sydney, but gained only 13 yards on 7
carries... Sewanee lost to Maryville
last week, 49-30. W&L fell to the Scots
two weeks ago by a score of 35-28...
The Generals defeated the Universi-
ty of the South last year in Sewanee,

36-21, and lead the series, 18-15...
a Sa Sy

ad hit? agi, ohana Panel er ae

?
eM
a a gt ee es

Van Son added that he thought the
momentum the team had built up
would not be too badlv affected. “In
the second half of the loss,” he
said,’’we played pretty well.”

On Tuesday the Generals erased
the chill of the earlier loss with a 2-1
victory over Eastern Mennonite. The
Generals trailed 1-0 at the half but
senior Jim Tucker tied the game in
the second half and junior John Coll
put it away in overtime.

“Tt wasn’t the prettiest of matches,

Emory & Henry, ranked seventh in
Division III last week, clinched at
least a tie for the ODAC title by
trouncing Randolph-Macon, 45-7. The
Wasps now own a 7-0 overall record,
with four ODAC wins. Wasp tailback

Polo

 

 

‘ ah
eA | ae ae, eee

4

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

‘Soccer loses on Sat., then slides by ODAC foe

but I was quite proud of the way the
guys came back at them,”’ said Pira-
nian.

The soccer Generals record now
stands at 8-4 with the bulk of its Old
Dominion Athletic Conference con-
tests still to play.

On Saturday the Generals will
travel to Farmville to face the Tigers
of Hampden-Sydney.

Following that game, the team will
return for a three game homestand
that will complete the scheduled por-
tion of the season.

Sandy Rogers, who gained 107 of
Emory’s 512 yards in the Macon
game, has already gained 1,110 yards
this season... The last time a W&L
football team held an 0-5 record was
in 1978.

travel to Richmond to negate the
Spiders’ home team advantage.

Perez supported Remillard’s view

 

() Continued from Page 6

Remillard said W&L traditionally
has done very well against the
Spiders in their home pool.

“We've defeated Richmond more
at their pool than in our pool,” he
said.

“The crowd factor will be a plus for
both sides,’’ Remillard added,
because the team responds to crowd
noise, whether positive or negative.
He said, however, that he would like

of Richmond’s fans: ‘‘The crowds
usually haven’t been that much of a
problem.”

The team will have ‘‘two weeks of
specialty practice,’ Remillard said.

“‘We’re not resting on our laurels,”’
Perez said. ‘Our most important
games are still tocome.”’

The Generals have won the
Southern League title three of the
last five years, but have not won in
two years.

Guess who has — Richmond.

 

ae a. ee,
The First String

By David Emrich
Sports Editor

 

 

 

 

something Different

I’m going to try something a little bit different this week.

In general, the only time a person will write a column, send a letter
to the editor, or give his opinion is when something (or somebody)
causes his blood pressure to begin an upward spiral. This time I’m go-
ing to break that pattern.

Today my column is devoted to things in the sports world that I like,
things that I enjoy.

To borrow a line from Julie Andrews: ‘‘These are a few of my
favorite things.’’ To coin a new phrase: ‘‘Bear with me, there might be
a thing or two here that you like.”’

eThere is something about watching live baseball that can’t be beat.
I love going to Veterans Stadium to watch the Philadelphia Phillies.
The best time to go (I think) is in June or July before the pennant races
start to heat up. This way, you avoid all the people who come to the
park just because the Phils are in first place (admittedly not a pro-
blem this year) or because they’re playing a first-place team.

eWhile at the ballpark I always buy at least one of the stadium hot-
dogs, and I always buy it from a vendor as opposed to buying 1t at tne
snack bar. While this may not seem to be a major undertaking to most,
a closer look reveals the almost sublime pleasure that one can receive
from this fairly simple exchange.

The hotdogs themselves are almost always terrible and always
overpriced. In fact, you could buy a pack of 10 franks at the grocery
store for the same price as just one of the stadium hotdogs. Obviously
the joy lies elsewhere.

I think I like the hotdogs so much because of the vendors who sell
them. These people are always the most interesting in the ballpark.
Despite the lousy pay, terrible hours, and rude fans, I get the feeling
that these people love their work. Maybe they enjoy baseball, maybe
their fathers before them were hotdog vendors, maybe they have day
jobs and just sell hotdogs on the side — I dont know. Whatever the
reason I’m sure that they’re enjoying themselves at work, and there
are millions of people who can’t say the same.

eJust one more thing about baseball — I promise. I like the way that
baseball has refused to cheapen the regular season by instituting a
“come one, come all”’ playoff system. I think that the present system
is very fair, especially since the league championship series has been
lengthened to the best four out of seven. This forces teams to show
their fourth starter, maybe go to their third or fourth reliever, play the
23rd and 24th man on their roster. In short, it makes sure that the
whole team is tested, not just the first string.

Despite all the fights, and the meaningless regular season, I like
professional hockey. My favorite team (if anyone is interested) is the
Philadelphia Flyers. Hockey is fast, rough, and exciting—sort of like
lacrosse with skates. Because I have always liked hockey, I started to
watch lacrosse when I came to school. Maybe it works the other way,
too.

That was just a short trip through some of my favorite things in
sports. Maybe there were some things that you liked too; maybe you
hated everything I mentioned. At any rate, thanks for indulging me.

 

.

 

 

    

CONTACT
LENSES

a

*complete package

 

 

 

 

Includes:

* Exam and Fitting

- Brand-Name Lenses

* Follow-Up Visits

* Starter Solutions

* 31-Day Trial

Our reputation in Southwest Virginia

assures you of quality. And now this
special price assures you of savings.

“Blum

 

 

 

' Valley Trve Value Herdwere

HARO

E. Nelson Street
463-2186

 

 

 

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

 

Mon.-Sat. 8:36-6:¢¢
Sun. 1-5

 

 

 

 

 

Ay

 

to see as many people as possible

MEN'S & HAIRSTYLING

MANICURES

WOMEN S

COSMETICS TANNING

WHEN ONLY

 

 

Visa & MasterCharge Accepted

Capers Jur.

THE BEST Wit

Wednesdays Wet Cut Day

$7.00

(Reg. $8.00)

25 N MAIN ST
24456
(703) 463-2566

LEXINGION VA

BO (yp

Lexington-Buena Vista Shopping Center
112 Walker St., Lexington
463-1600

Nobody in Southwest Virginia
sells more eyewear.

*Daily wear lenses. This special package price is not
good in combination with any other discounts or
special offers

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

‘BACK PAGE

 

  

 

 

 

Steve King at home.

 

By MARK FARLEY
Staff Writer

 

It could serve as a perfect word
association test: Horror? Stephen
King. Macabre? Stephen King. Best
seller? Stephen King.

This actually is not too far from the
truth. Stephen King has written more
than 20 books (mostly novels, but
some short stories as well) and has
grossed more than $20 million by sell-
ing 60 million copies of them around
the globe. Not too shabby for some-
one writing specifically in the horror
genre.

Washington and Lee students def-
initely enjoy reading King. Susan A.
LaRue of the W&L bookstore is cer-
tain that among the authors
available on the shelves, King is one
of the most popular and is a steady
seller. In fact, she says that King
“sells like no one else.”’

King was raised, fatherless, ‘in
Durham, Maine. He remembers him-
self as being an angry child who
sought and desired some form of
revenge for his difficult childhood. It
is not surprising, then, that many of
King’s protagonists are odd, feel left
out, and seek revenge as well.

King went on to attend the Univer-
sity of Maine where he majored in
English. After he was graduated, he
worked as a prep-school English
teacher. When he wasn’t working, he
wrote, and wrote. And finally, it paid
off.

King’s steady rise began with the
novel Carrie in the early ’70s. Until
that point, he had been scraping out a

The Ring-tum Phi, October 23, 1986

living by his teaching and by submit-
ting stories to men’s magazines of
questionable quality. After Carrie,
the titles, most of them best sellers,
can be read off straight from the card
catalog: Salems Lot (1975), The Shin-
ing (1977), The Stand (1978), The Dead
Zone (1979), Firestarter (1980), Cujo

(1981), Danse Macabre (1981), Chris-
tine and Pet Sematary (1983).

In fact, King’s publishers began to
fear that since he was writing so
much (about two books a year) he
would exhaust his audience. Rather
than slow down, King submitted five
novels under the name Richard
Bachman. These sold all right on
their own, but when people found out
that Bachman was King, sales took
off. The novel Thinner by
Bachman/King became an almost in-
stant best seller.

In addition to his own novels, King
collaborated with Peter Straub, the
author of Ghost Story, on the novel
The Talisman (1984), which was
greedily consumed by King enthus-
iasts. Collections of King’s short
stories have been published in the
books Night Shift and Skeleton Crew. It
is amazing how tightly written and
horrific these brief tales can be.

But, if you still don’t believe, try
this. On some cold, gray day this Oc-
tober, buy The Shining or Salems Lot
or any other book by the Master of
Horror, and set it on the nightstand
by your bed. That night, turn out all
the lights save one and pick up the
book. Then, with the wind rattling
your windows and with the shadows
of leafless and barren trees dancing
on your walls, let Mr. King talk to you
and show you what fear is all about.

Viexican folk ballet to invade Lex

 

 

\FF REPORTS

 

‘he Rockbridge Concert-Theatre Series’ first offer-
of its forty-first season is the Ballet Gran Folklorico
Mexico, who perform a two-hour extravaganza of

. nging and dancing and have been hailed by ‘‘The New
rk Times”’ as ‘‘One of the most beautifully costumed
ince companies to appear in...recent memory.’’ Ac-
rding to the ‘‘Times,”’ the Ballet Grand Folkorico had
he audience clapping and humming along several
iutes into the program.”

Surely one of the most spectacular offerings in RCTS
‘story, the Ballet Gran Folklorico de Mexico is a pro-
“ram of Mexican folkdances including such northern
‘xican offerings as the polka, chottis, redova and
Itz (introduced to Mexico by Europeans and adapted
native villagers), as well as songs and dances from

» Yucatan where Mayan culture had its beginnings.
\'so performed are the ancient music of the Chiapas
, tribe formed by a mixture of Indian and Spanish
peoples — the eastern dances of the Oaxaca region
10se melodies are played by Marimba bands, and the
‘amiliar fandago and Mexican Hat Dance. And the au-
ence will be thrilled by the world famous Mariachi

nds.

‘he authentic native folk dances and music are per-
‘formed by genuine folk artists as well as professional
susicians, under the direction of Theo Shanab, who led
1e Ballet Gran Folkorico to first prize in folklore in the
‘orld Folklore Festival in 1976. The rhythmic, joyous
isic and dance is enhanced by the stunning native
costumes garnished with feathers, ribbons, and hand-
ewn flowers in a rainbow of vibrant colors.

Washington and Lee students are admitted free by
showing their identification cards at the door. Other
tickets may be purchased prior to the concert at the
‘oor. For more information, call Lee RiCharde at
463-9670.

Dit t hee eee eee eee

EAST LEX

Phone: 463-3614 | US11 North _Open ‘til midnite

Class Pictures

will be taken
Oct. 27 - Oct. 31 in
Room 113 of the
Student Center from

9 a.m.-12 noon and
1 p.m.-4:30 p.m.

    
 
 
 
    

ip’ ,

    
   

a 2

7m

 

 

 

 

THE FUTURE IS IN
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

A representative will be on campus
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29,

to discuss

GRADUATE STUDY

THUNDERBIRD

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL
OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
GLENDALE, ARIZONA 85306

Interviews may be scheduled at

CAREER DEVELOPMENT &

1986

PLACEMENT CENTER

 

 

 

 

Campus Music

117 W. Nelson
INVENTORY REDUCTION SALE!

Albums & Cassettes

Compact Discs

_....... from $10.00 to $16.00; most priced at $12.00

Singles

Jats hice 0s eee ee every single in stock just $0.25
Pivs $2.00 off on all regularly priced

albums, cassettes, and compact discs in stock
And with any purchase, register to win
one of three $50.00 gift certificates redeemable on any
merchandise in stock through October 31, 1986
Prices Good Through Sunday, Oct. 31, 1986

Open Monday-Thursday: 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.

Friday-Saturday: 10:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m.

Sunday: 1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.

No Limits

from $.50 to $6.00; $8.00 priced below $4.00

 

 

 

A big biTe

 

By JIM BENNETT
Book Critic

 

Bill had produced his father’s Walther
again...Richie watched this, fascinated,
and then looked under the porch again.
He saw something else this time.
Broken glass. Faintly glinting shards of
glass. His stomach cramped painfully.
He was not a stupid boy...splinters of
glass on the moldering leaves under the
porch meant that the window had been
broken from inside. From the cellar.

“Wh-What?” Bill asked again, look-
ing up at Richie. His face was grim and
white. Looking at that set face, Richie
mentally threw in the towel.

“Nothing.” he said.

“You cuh-cuh-homing?”

“Yeah.”

They crawled under the porch.

It has been said of Stephen King’s
novels that they are the literary
equivalent of a Big Mac and french
fries. If so, then Stephen King’s new
work, IT, must be a Double Whopper
(over 1,100 pages).

Obviously the originator of this
remark questions the quality of
King’s achievements. However, he
does not appreciate the simple
pleasures in life—like a good ham-
burger or a Stephen King horror
story, for example. The problem in
IT, however, is that King tries to ac-
complish too much and the story
becomes contrived and confusing.

IT, situated in the fictional town of
Derry, Maine, involves a creature

 

into King’s

new Double Whopper

that eunforms to its young victims’
nightmares and fears. It appears
most often as a leering parody of
Bozo the clown/Ronald McDonald.
This, understandably, sounds far-
cical, but King has accurately cap-
tured how subconsciously sinister a
clown can be to young children.

Hunting “It” in the sewers under
this rural 1950s town is the stuttering
Bill Denbrough (who grows up to
write horror novels) and his six
young friends, known as The Losers.
Their strength against ‘‘It’’ is their
childhood innocence and understand-
ing of each other’s problems.

But wait! It’s suddenly 1985 and we
discover that somehow The Losers
defeated “‘It’’ in 1958 and have since
grown up, separated, and have tried
to forget their frightening experi-
ences, ‘‘It,” however, has started yet
another reign of terror and The
Losers must fulfill an old oath to
reunite in order to save themselves
and the children of Derry. Here King
has erred by trying to run two plots at
the same time, and the reader is sore
pressed to keep track of which time
frame each chapter is in. King, also,
does not stay simple with “It”; he
tries to make “‘It’’ into mythological
creature/space  visitor/giant
spider/evil cosmic deity all wrapped
into one. ‘It’ also becomes less
frightening ince we know it was
defeated before in 1958. While these
aspects of IT are disappointing, most
King fans probably won't mind. IT is
the sort of book that horror fans will
want tostay up late with.

A Novel

<ing: Scaring money out of your pocke

 

 

of Spain. Room 203, Reid Hall.

8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM:
Lewis Hall.

Field
Jackson Memorial Hall, VMI.

Lewis Hall.

8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM:

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, October 23
3 p.m. — WORKSHOP: Interviewing Techniques and Mock Inter-
views. Room 103, University Library
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘‘New Jersey and Me — Perfect
Together,”’ Jeffrey S. Mandak, ’87. Howe 401. Tea at 4:30 in Howe 402.
7:30 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: The Spanish Earth and the Heart

Friday, October 24

“The Boat is Full’. Classroom A,

Saturday, October 25
1:30 p.m. — FOOTBALL: Generals vs. University of the South. Wilson

8 p.m. — FAIR CONCERT: The Rockbridge Symphony and Chorus.

“The Boat is Full. Classroom A,

Sunday, October 26
2 p.m, — ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: Ballet
Gran Folklorico de Mexico. Lexington High School.

 

 

   
   
     

Se eee eee

The Ring-tum Phi
Subscriptions for the rest
of the year: $20

Call (703)-463-6878 for information.

 

i a le a a i oii a a ln ellie

 

      

-

> te & @

CRSA it ih lg yg

li tl, hein

ne er ae

aaa
