 

For Your Health

 

 

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 28

Dean John talks
about health care

Che Ring-tum Phi

Page 3

  
 
   

 

 

For Your Fun

Three band weekend
offers big party

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Page 6 |

  
 
   

 

 

Your It’s Almost Over Weather

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Sunny skies; go out
and get some rays

 
   

MAY 21, 1987

 

 

~~ oe

bt

   

Bob Fitts, public relations chairman for the
Washington and Lee University Interfraternity Coun-
cil, presents a check to Anne Coulling, a representative

, es s - =
Donation with a smile
looks on. The W&L IFC sponsored a golf tournament

last week at the Lexington Country Club to raise more
than $600 for the American Cancer Society.

i)

of the American Cancer Society, as Gib Davenport

Reaction to Jackson is constant

 

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

It may go down in W&L history as
the day donkeys and elephants tussl-
ed on the Front Lawn.

Behind the podium stood the
liberal, idealistic Democrat the Rev.
Jesse Jackson. Listening to his words
was part the of Washington and Lee
student body, a group of students
considered a bastion of conservatism
by many, including themselves.

Jackson’s appearance was the
kickoff for the 1988 Mock Democratic
Convention. Currently a front-runner
in the race for the Democratic
presidential nomination, Jackson
spoke for 40 minutes to a Front Lawn
audience estimated at 2,000.

Student reaction to the speech was
decisive.

“His speech was idealistic and

euphoric, but frankly, not very
Trustees will meet this weekend

By MARGARET PIMBLETT
Staff Reporter

 

At its spring meeting this
weekend, the Washington and Lee
Board of Trustees will attend the
latest production of the University
Theatre, view a collection of
Western art and conduct its
regular business.

The trustees and their spouses
are set to see ‘‘The Ballad of the
Sad Cafe,’ a play based on the
novella by Carson McCullers, Fri-
day night at the University
Theatre.

Earlier that evening they will
attend a reception in honor of the
Stan Kamen Collection of Western
Art, which is on display in the du-
Pont Gallery.

Kamen, a 1949 W&L graduate,
was associated with the William
Morris Agency, the largest and
oldest talent agency in the world.
He displayed the pieces that
became the Kamen Collection in
his Malibu, Calif., home and his
Beverly Hills office.

The collection was bequeathed

realistic,’’ said Dorothy Mills, a
sophomore from White Plains, N.Y.

“It was a moral pep rally, not a
serious political speech,’ com-
mented Craig Davis, a freshman
from Spartanburg, S.C. ‘He con-
tradicted himself several times, the
foremost being his argument that
we've got to ‘take care of our own,’
then going on to talk about taking
care of Nicaragua in the form of
economic aid,” Davis said.

Mark Canon, a_ senior from
Jacksonville, Fla., agreed. ‘‘Not only
did his presentation seem tired, but
his subjects jumped without cohe-
sion. His whole speech was highly
rhetorical.”’

“His platitudes, though mean-
ingless, were delivered effectively,
more so than the ‘Great Com-
municator’ and the Democratic
milksops currently on the political
scene,’ said Erik Curren, a senior

to Washington and Lee following
Kamen’s death in 1986.

Farris Hotchkiss, vice president
for university relations and
secretary to the board of trustees,
said the reception will give the
board the ‘‘opportunity to express
the university’s thanks to the
Kamen family.”

Hotchkiss also said he thought
the evening would entertain while
“at the same time . lallowing.1
the board to recognize that the
university is working very hard on
the center for the performing
arts,’ which is to be built within
the next few years.

Among the regular business
that will be discussed by the board
is the approval of the faculty pro-
motion and tenure appointments,
which have been recommended
by the president’s advisory com-
mittee.

Those recommendations were
the result of departmental sugges-
tions.

Financial matters to be on the
agenda incLude the approval of
the 1987-88 budget, review of the

 

 

from Chicago, home of the Jackson-
founded Operation PUSH.

“For saying nothing, he did it well,
and with spirit,’ Curren added.

When asked what comments they
specifically disagreed with, students
pointed to a number of things.

“His argument regarding the
farmers was off-base,,’ said Damon
Fensterman, a freshman from Lyn-
chburg, Va. ‘“‘Those farmers in trou-
ble are economic individuals who
made a killing in 1979 playing the
economy. Now that the market is
bad, I don’t think an exception should
be made for them.”

“His comments about redis-
tributing the wealth as if people who
made money should be punished for
it were absurd,” said Robert Mould,
a freshman from Columbia, S.C.
“The man who doesn’t work as hard
or work at all shouldn’t receive the
same benefits as the one who does.”

endowment investment perfor-
mance, and review of the univer-
sity’s progress with fundraising
and physical development. That
includes the Annual Fund, capital
requirements such as those re-
quired for the new theatre and
physical improvements, including
construction of Gaines Hall.

The board of trustees meets
three times a year, once during
each of the academic terms. The
meetings are generally held in
mid-October, late January or ear-
ly February, and late May.

Hotchkiss said that this
weekend’s meeting is ‘‘special to
a certain extent in that it is the
first time the new student body
president meets with the board.”

The members of the old and new
student Executive Committee and
the Interfraternity Council
Judiciary Board will have lunch
with the trustees.

In addition, the board will meet
the new president of the Alumni
Board of Directors, John W.
Folsom of Columbia, S.C.

 

 

 

GENERAL
NOTES

 

Do it soon

No students will graduate or
receive grades with cold checks
outstanding. See the list in Carol
Calkins office-for amounts or call
Peter Bennorth at 463-2203.

Have a heart

Any student interested in work-
ing as publicist for the local unit of
the American Heart Association
for the 1987-88 academic year,
please leave your name and
where you can be contacted with
Carol Calkins in the University
Center

 

 

Sponsors

By STACY MORRISON
Staff Reporter

 

 

Although the Women’s Forum’s
first spring weekend, Confettis, was
deemed a success by those in charge,
the event did run into problems con-
cerning a noise violation and the
policy on serving alcohol.

Participation in the weekend’s ac-
tivities was high. Alston Parker,
president of the Women’s Forum,
believes that the entire weekend
went well.

She was “‘very pleased’’ with ticket
sales. A total of 167 tickets were sold

140 to Washington and Lee
undergraduate women, and 27 to
female guests of the women students.

pleased

Approximately 60 percent of W&L
undergraduate women _ bought
tickets. ‘‘I had hoped for that kind of
a figure,”’ Parker said, ‘“‘but I did not
expect it.”

Although the Women’s Forum has
not finished paying bills for Confettis,
Parker is sure no profit was made.
“Tf anything, we lost a little money,
but I expect to break even after all
the bills have been paid,’’ said
Parker.

Saturday night's dance was com-
pletely paid for through ticket sales,
Parker added

Although the dance was held out-
side city limits, Lexington City police

closed down the band at 11:30 p.m
after they received noise complaints
from people in town. The first band,
Not Shakespeare, began to play at

Students arrested
on drug charges

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

 

Three Washington and Lee
students were arrested over the
weekend for possession of marijuana
with the intent to distribute, a class 5
felony carrying a punishment of one
to 10 years in prison and a $1,000 fine.

Senior Robert Lutz was arrested
Saturday at approximately 1:30
a.m., and the arrests of senior
William Kubly and junior DuBois
Thompson followed on Monday after-
noon. The three students lived
together at 701 N. Main Street in a
house commonly referred to as
“Fishbait.”’

According to Sgt. G.P. Joines,
about one-half pound of marijuana
was found at the house and was
valued at approximately $450-$500.

One of the things students did like
about Jackson’s speech was his en-
couraging students to register to
vote. In a reference to the Mock
Democratic Convention, Jackson
called unregistered students ‘‘mock
Americans.” He then asked those
who had raised their hands in-
dicating they were not registered to
walk to the podium, where registra-
tion packets were being distributed.

“T loved his. attempt to make
students vote,” said Fensterman.
“As a school that supposedly
educates the soon-to-be political elite
of this country, I was surprised at the
amount of W&L voter apathy.”

Senior Ron Wilhelmsen, one of the
students who approached the
podium, also thought it was a good
move to get people to vote. ‘‘So many
people are unrepresented other-

(See Jesse, page 3

Student to

y MARGARET PIMBLETT

Staff Reporter

 

A Washington and Lee sophomore
is planning to spend her summer in
Europe, but she won’t be seeing the
Eiffel Tower, Buckingham Palace or
even the Colisseum in Rome.

Instead of touring the grand areas
of the continent, Melissa Anemo-
janis, 19, will be working with Teen
Missions International, a _non-
denominational Christian missionary
program for young people from 13

Joines said that in addition to the
marijuana there was a large quantity
of drug paraphernalia present.

Joines said that possession over a
half-onnce is considered a felony and
implies the intent to distribute. When
asked about the penalties involved if
the students were convicted he said,
“Tt’s heavy penitentiary time.”’

Commonwealth’s Attorney Eric
Sisler said that the crime can result
in a sentence of one to 10 years in the
penitentiary or 12 months in jail and
up to a $1,000 fine. ‘‘The jury has a lot
of discretion in a case like this,’’ he
said.

This latest series of arrests follows
closely on the heels of the arrests of
two other W&L students, Thomas R.
Pettus and Todd Young. According to
published reports, both of the
students were charged with
distributing MDA, a hallucinogenic

designer drug. MDA is a Schedule I
drug, which means it has no known
medical uses. A conviction for
distributing MDA can carry a prison
sentence of five to 40 years and a fine
of $100,000. Both Pettus and Young
have withdrawn from the university.

According to the rules of the Stu-
dent Conduct Committee, ‘‘posses-
sion with intent to distribute, or
distribution, of an illegal form of an
opiate, amphetamine, hallucinogen,
or cocaine,” or the “‘sale of mari-
juana for profit’ is a major offense.
A major offense can be punished by
expulsion or suspension from the stu-
dent body. In all likelihood those
students arrested this weekend will
have to appear before the SCC.

These two sets of arrests have
brought a new Drug Enforcement

(See Drugs, page 3

 

Jesse Jackson on campus last week.

mission in Poland

years to college age

“T’ve always been interested in
community service and church youth
organizations,’ Anemojanis said.
“This sounded like it fit the ticket for
both.”

Anemojanis will be a member of a
30-person team working in Swinou-
jscie, Poland, a small town near
Krakow. Their project is to build a
center for the needy and elderly, she
said.

About 2,000 teenagers work with
the program each year, traveling to
63 countries, Anemojanis said.

Teen Missions divides its
ministries according to the primary
focus of the teams. Evangelical
teams primarily preach and spread
the Gospel.

The function of the Teen Missions
Dial-a-Teen service, according to the
group’s literature, is ‘‘sharing Christ
through a 24-hour-a-day, teen-geared
telephone ministry in major U.S.
cities.’’ Work teams, such as the one
Anemojanis will join, construct chur-
ches, orphanages, schools, airstrips,

(See Teens, page 3

Weaver, Krastel win top honors

 

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

Seniors Kevin Weaver and Joe
Krastel captured the top athletic
honors at the Washington and Lee
All-Sports Barbecue and Awards
Ceremony, held yesterday in the
Warner Center.

Weaver received the Preston R.
Brown Memorial Award, presented
annually to the university’s most
valuable senior athlete. A four-year

letter winner in varsity football,
Weaver’s 158 career points make him
the highest scorer in the history of
Washington and Lee football.

Weaver also owns the school
record for the longest run from
scrimmage, an 89-yard carry in his
final game on Wilson Field, and is se-
cond in all-time rushing, with more
than 2,000 career yards. He led the
NCAA in scoring during his junior
year with an average of 13.8 points
per game.

“Kevin has just been a fantastic
performer for us in football for the
four years he’s been with us,”’ said
head football coach Gary Fallon.
“‘He’s going to be a tough young man
to replace.”

Weaver was also a sprinter on both
the indoor and outdoor track teams
for three years and was named to
five all-conference teams.

Krastel was named the recipient of

See Awards, page 5

with Confettis weekend

9:30, and the Connells were only five
songs into their set when the pclice
arrived.

After speaking with Lexington
Police Chief Bruce Beard, Associate
Dean of Students Anne Schroer
disclosed that there had been four
phone calls Saturday night complain-
ing about the music.

‘Apparently, there was a pocket in
town where the music was obnox-
ious,”’ said Schroer. ‘“‘The band must
have carried on the wind.”’

Two phone calls came from
residents of Main Street, and two
others were from _ neighboring
streets, Schroer added.

The Women’s Forum had not ob-
tained a noise permit for the event,
Parker said, because Chief Beard
had told the women such permits
were not issued for events held out-

side Lexington city limits. The
women urged Beard to allow them to
get a permit, but he asserted that it
was unnecessary, Parker said.

The Women’s Forum did send 45
letters out to neighboring residents
notifying them of the possible in-
convenience caused by the volume of
musre. Letters of apology are to
follow.

Although alcohol was served at
some of the weekend’s events, no
school policies were broken, Schroer
said, because “‘the dance was not a
school-sponsored event.’ There were
kegs at Zollman’s Pavilion on Satur-
day afternoon, as well as a tag bar at
Sunnyside that evening.

‘Alcohol was not served per se,”’
explained Parker. ‘‘We knew there
was no way to avoid people bringing
alcohol, so we _ supplied the

bartenders (Saturday night[ to keer
people from running out to their cars
and hurting themselves. We tried tc
avoid a messy situation.”

The dance at Sunnyside was a
private party conducted under an in:
surance policy that was completely
separate from the university. Since
the event was held off campus, it was
further removed from schoo
policies. An individual purchased the
kegs for the party at Zollman’s, anc
that pavilion has its own insurance
policy and is private property.

Plans are already being for
mulated for Confettis ‘88. Because 0}
the noise problems associated witt
this year’s event, the Women’s
Forum is investigating other possible
locations for the dance. The
weekend's events will, however, be
similar to this year’s, Parker said.
OPINION

 

 

 

 

—_—

 

 

—p

(A YOUNG WEL STUDENT TRIES HIS HAND AT COMMERCE.

 

z

The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1987

 

‘Older, wiser’ student clerk
defends admissions policy

 

MY VIEW
By Steve Baldridge

 

Can you believe it? All this fuss
over admissions. You’d think some-
one’s mother had been insulted!

What really bothers me is the lack
of intelligent argument behind all the
criticism. If someone could bring out
somethine tangible to show that the
post-coed classes were undermining
the ‘“‘W&L Experience” you’d find an
ally here. Lacking that, let’s cut out
the histrionics.

I applied to W&L and was accepted
into the freshman class of ’82-'83.
Yes, imagine, those golden years of
masculine camaraderie untainted by
female scholars — except for a few
on exchange from the women’s
schools. After a three-year leave-of-
absence I’m back. Older, wiser,
more observant and more involved.
Both years, I have worked as a clerk
in the admissions office. Far from an
expose, I give them my commenda-
tion.

W&L, in that lapse of time, has
seen notable changes. Some in par-
ticular: coed presence reflected in
sports, politics and the performing
arts; beefing up of the sciences; and
heightened conflict between the law
and irresponsible social activities.
But academic competition is intensi-
fying on a national level, in both
public and private schools. Any
school that attempts to attract the
cream of the crop has put itself in a

cc mpetitive market.

The question facing us, then, is
whether this will be a school of
substance or pretense. The trustees
obviously think drama is important
and have allocated $9 million to sup-
port it. But let’s leave posturing and
pretense in the performing arts
center and dedicate the rest of our
time to reality. This is Washington
and Lee University, not the W&L
Youth Club.

Since we are here for an education
and not just good times, let’s
recognize that demonstrated
academic ability is the first quality to
be addressed in the applicant pool.
Wonderful! We find 70 to 80% of our
applicants capable of doing the work
here. So they select. Eyes hungrily
scan file after file searching for
honor-oriented people who have
distinguished themselves by
academic achievement and extra-
curricular activities which will con-
tribute to the ‘‘W&L Experience.”

The task is carried out by people
who take seriously the trust they
have been given. The process is, on
the whole, performed professionally
and meticulously. I can vouch for
that. I have been there. Of course
there’s stress and of course people
laugh and joke. And heaven forbid,
you can sometimes even find a
homemade cake or cookies to be
shared. Birthdays are even cel-
ebrated. Can you imagine?! The ad-
missions staff is human.

But let’s return to the results. Next
year’s class is composed of 64 student
body or class presidents and VP’s, 97
varsity team captains, 84 major club
leaders, 63 newspaper or yearbook

editors, etc. They average 1220 SAT’s :
and th percentile in their class
standing. If you could look at the
folders of people coming, you’d have
to be happy with their caliber and
breadth. That many good applicants
were rejected in a necessary fact of
life. Faced with so many well-
rounded applicants, those who have
demonstrated their excellence in and
out of the classroom are most deserv-
ing of admission. That’s only obvious
and fair.

To those who complain that stan-
dards are rising too high, I reply,
“Piffle.” I researched the mean
SAT’s back through ’61 and found the
five-year average high of 1230 from
63 to 67 with ’65’s being 1251. The
five-year span of lowest mean SAT’s
was from '77 to ’81 at an average of
1131 with '79’s only 1125. There’s still
room to go before anyone has a right
to call “‘outrageous!”’ If you’re in-
timidated by the new arrivals maybe
you should look up a Peer Counselor
to help you accept the reality that
there are people better and worse
than each of us. And realize that
W&L’s higher reputation and stan-
dards will make all of our diplomas
worth more and attract others from
throughout the nation, and hopefully
the world, who are looking for a place
with a tradition of honor and ideals,
not just a good time.

Still unconvinced? Rest assured
that somehow the E.C. chairs always
get filled, albeit at times better oc-
cupied than others. Newspapers are
written, teams play, performances
go on, and guys join frats. These
precedents are remorselessly re-
peated among Wé&Lers although
some would have us think otherwise.

 

Improvements

As the Board of Trustees meets this weekend, many topics
important to the Washington and Lee community will be
discussed. However, there are a few things we think the
board should look at very closely.

Lack of space for both offices and classrooms has become a
major problem. Professors are being shoved into tiny offices
that do not allow them enough room to work in. At the same
time, departments with heavy enrollments, history for exam-
ple, are being forced to hold classes in buildings that house
other deparments . With the increased class sizes that have
come with the revision of the core curriculum and the hiring
of new administration members, something must be done
about overcrowding.

This is a difficult problem for a campus as steeped in
history as Washington and Lee. A new building cannot be ad-
ded to the Colonnade, and the back of campus with its steep
hill, would pose construction difficulties. Also, it would
detract from the closeness and cohesiveness of the campus if
new classrooms were to be built far away, such as the propos-
ed performing arts center.

When the trustees look over physical improvements for the
university, they should keep their eyes open for the many
small things that need to be done, which add up to a large
whole. The interior of the statue of Old George atop Washin-
ton Hall has become a nesting place for birds, certainly not a
dignified function for a historical landmark. The tennis
courts at W&L are completely without lights for night play-
ing, which severely limits time available for students to play,
particularly when the tennis teams are in season. The park-

ing situation on campus is ridiculous; the Corral has become
a too-small piece of asphalt covered with double-parked cars
and trucks parked on the grass, making huge ruts in the land.
The co-op needs to be remodeled, and although this is a
rather large project, it is an important one in light of the
overcrowding occuring in that building.

The list of things that could stand improvement could go
on, but the board can see what else needs to be done, if they
take the time to look. They, as well as the students and facul-
ty, know that W&L is a special place deserving of much atten-
tion and work to keep it that way. It would be a travesty to see
W&L decline in quality because everyone was looking to the
grand projects of the future and not paying attention to the
immediate problems in the present.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
cemesh( ee et ee Sean Bugg
THUG IIE, foc vcicescceccccccccdveectereecssecverscessisisetesrire John Pensec
eee sneha actcasae od OL OL ee Michael Tuggle
is cise bccisitssi FL a ieee David Emrich
PR Riis icdsccciieteieisies Oo pisictes ssl cus Perry Hayes
WT IIR ooo ccs hci be cence cccs ce tideccicccisiesesesecns Mike Shady
PI NE i Skis scseeiec hii erin Steve Pockrass
EDITORIAL PAGE
ig Marie Dunne
Ce ee Cen Te eric er Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
pT re reer ee Rhona Hughes
Adivertlning MOMOGOP «o.oo sess ccccccceccsssescccccsccssenessecccesess Robert Jones
Cipemintion MORO GOF ... ccs csccccscccsccccccccccccscsssececccecess Edward Klank

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

 

 

(LETTERS

Reader disagrees with Jackson's platform

To the Editors:

Last Wednesday at noon, I joined hundreds of
my fellow students to hear Rev. Jackson speak in
front of Lee Chapel. I’ve never seen so many
idealists in one place, outside of Massachusetts.
‘The question and answer period was especially
amusing, as Jackson skillfully avoided answer-
ing questions not to his liking. Like most of my
fellow students, I was just as interested in hear-
ing what Jackson had to say as I was with seeing
the man in person. Not to my surprise, he
delivered a speech typically Democratic:
nothing new, just the same old misguided gripes
of a crestfallen, liberal idealist, though I was cer-
tainly glad the divestment garbage was mer-
cifully held toa minimum.

Jesse widely misses the mark in several areas
of his cloudy political reasoning. Jesse does not
like what is happening in agriculture today. The
foreclosures and economic plight of the Mid-
western growers are frequently featured in
newspapers and the evening news. Jackson said
that if we can bail out Chrysler and other
American industries, we can help the farmer,
the poor, the unfortunate working man down on
his luck, a victim of Reaganomics. Having
grown up on a large farm and having over half a
brain, I can quickly point out how naive
(especially for a potential candidate) Jackson’s
vision of this issue is. How many farms does one
see being foreclosed in Virginia each year? On
the East Coast? Very few, indeed. Ever wonder
why this is so?

Well what’s the fuss out in Kansas? Many
farmers are truly hard pressed because of fall-
ing prices, from Carter’s grain embargo (nice
move, Jimmy), among other things. But the
great number of farmers in the Midwest, those
now screaming for the help they ‘‘deserve,”’ are
suffering from their own greed. In the mid ’70s,
land was cheap out there, and many farmers
bought more land than they could ever effective-
ly maintain, purchased with easy credit from
reckless bankers in that region. Now, things ain’t
so good, and the ‘‘farmer,”’ who is now no longer
a toiling agriculturalist but a land baron, has to
come up with the dough to pay the frantic banks,
which lent far too much in the first place. We’re
supposed to bail them out? Sure. If everyone in
the electronics business did the same thing,
would the government tell each T.V. store, ‘‘Hey,
you speculated and lost big time, but that’s OK,
we're going to subsidize you?’’ I think not, so
why make an exception for the farmer? Opera-
tors of well-managed farms all across America,
particularly in Virginia, aren’t yelling for sub-
sidies, despite what Dan Rather ‘“‘reports.”’ If
people knew how much the Fed gives in
agricultural price supports as it is now, they’d
ask many more questions. Jackson’s call for help
(and farm votes obviously) is childishly super-
ficial.

Jackson displays his sadly misguided (liberal)
politics most notably regarding Central
America. If he were president, so he told us, he
would pull U.S. troops out of this region, giving
the Soviets free reign to build their base in
Nicaragua, only 1,000 miles from our southern
border. This is sound judgment? Of course not.
Every effort should be made to support and
assist the Contras in their fight against the brutal
Sandinista regime. Nicaragua under the San-
dinista government is a state in which the
military conscripts more young men than any
other Latin American country; in which the na-
tional income is now 40 percent of what it was 10
years ago; in which civil rights have been of-
ficially discarded; in which the native Indians
have been the victims of a genocidal program
launched by President Ortega; in which no, op-
position newspaper is tolerated; in which Cuban
and Soviet military advisors play a prominent
role, and soon.

The Contras are a desperate people, battling
against a tyrannical oppressor for their natural,
human rights, using whatever they can to do so.
We must help them, as friends of democracy and
liberty, which we hold so dearly. I would hate to
see what Ameriea would be like today if the
French had adopted the same policy toward our
fledgling nation i 1779, that American liberals
have shown toward the Contras. We've got a few
things incommon.

Sincerely,
John R. Maass, ’87

APO dunk tank is a success

To the Editors:

On behalf of the Washington and Lee chapter
of the Alpha Phi Omega national coeducational
service fraternity, I would like to thank everyone
who helped with last week’s dunk tank.

Special thanks must go to everyone who
volunteered his or her body for the tank, which
was set up at the Dining Hall cookout on Friday.
And I’ve never seen so many young men stick
their heads out a dorm window to look at a young
lady in a white T-shirt.

Thanks, too, to all the people who tested their
throwing arms. Because of your efforts, we are
donating $75 to the local hospice. We also ap-
preciate the help we received from Rick Norris,
who trucked the tank out here from beautiful
Buena Vista and back.

At this time, I think it’s appropriate to thank
everyone who made this year a successful one
for APO. I would encourage all students who are
interested in making their college years more
full and meaningful to consider joining this
organization.

Sincerely,
Steven F. Pockrass ‘87

Hart caused his own fall?

To the Editors:

In her May 14 ‘‘My View,” Ms. Jennifer Spreng
asks the depressingly naive question ‘‘What’s the
big deal with Gary Hart?” Ms. Spreng adverts to
Hart's “sexual indiscretions,’ but concludes
that Hart’s exit from the campaign is a “larger
bummer,” wondering whether ‘archaic ideas
about morality and appearances play a bigger
role in picking candidates than merit.’’ For
many, however, honesty and fidelity are not ‘‘ar-
chaic ideas’”’ and certainly not irrelevant con-
siderations in the election of perhaps the most
powerful man on earth. Hart himself took what
Ms. Spreng undoubtedly would term an “ar-
chaic”’ position when he agreed that adultery is
immoral (although he did refuse to define
adultery — Hart is a lawyer, and presumably he
refuses to issue a legal opinion before conducting
extensive research). The big deal, Ms. Spreng, is
not Hart’s libido, but his apparent inability to
control it, and what that inability reveals about
his character.

When Hart announced his candidacy, he
chastised the current administration for its
alleged failure to live up to the standards of
honesty and integrity Americans rightfully de-
mand of their public servants. In fact, the cur-

rent Administration is in some trouble because
there is widespread suspicion that its members
have been less than honest about the so-called
Iran-Contra affair. Gary Hart’s candidacy was
mortally wounded by a similar suspicion. No one
cared that Hart changed his name — Hartpence
is an ugly name — but many had difficulty
understanding why he was so evasive about the
name change. No one really cared about his age
— he is obviously younger than Reagan — but it
was revealing that he lied about his age. When he
announced that he was pulling out of the race,
Hart admitted that he has always had trouble
talking about himself. But what hurt Hart was
the suspicion that he had trouble talking honestly
about himself, a suspicion Donna Rice turned in-
toa scandal.

The Miami Herald did not create the image of
Hart as a skirt-chaser; Hart did. Since his days
as George McGovern’s campaign manager, Hart
has had a reputation as a philanderer. One of
Hart’s own aides warned in a Newsweek profile
that there was concern over whether the can-
didate could keep his pants on. Even as he
withdrew from the race, the Washington Post
revealed that it had documented evidence that
Hart had been involved in a long-term affair. So
what? As Ms. Spreng ingenuously asks: ‘“‘[ What
does any of this have to do with Hart’s ability to
be President [sic]?’’ Naturally, Hart’s alleged
philandering has nothing to do with his ability to
lead, but it does offer some evidence of how he
would lead. As noted above, the current ad-
ministration is in trouble because there is a
perception its members have not been honest.
One of the primary character traits voters de-
mand of would-be leaders, especially after Viet-
nam and Watergate, is honesty. If Gary Hart has
routinely committed adultery during 15 years of
public life, I submit that this datum reveals a
great deal about his capacity for deception. Ms.
Spreng may find this exercise an example of
“depressing small-mindedness,”’ but I believe a
candidate’s honesty is a material consideration
in the election of a president.

Sincerely

Ed Graham
Law Class of ’87

Cancer Society gives thanks

To the Editor:

On behalf of the American Cancer Society, I
would like to thank the individuals and
businesses who helped make the first
Washington and Lee University Interfraternity
Council Open a tremendous success. Those peo-
ple and businesses who helped with the tourna-
ment are: Grover Smith of the Lexington Golf
and Country Club, Jim Bowen of the East Lex-
ington Store, Jerry Darrell of the W&L Food Ser-
vices, Bob Fitts and the entire Interfraternity
Council, and Pres Brown’s.

The tournament raised more than $600 for the
Cancer Society. With the success we enjoyed this
year, we are hopeful we can sponsor another
such event during the next academic year.

Sincerely

Brian D. Shaw

Secretary, Rockbridge Unit
American Cancer Society

 

 
OPINION/NEWS

 

Fourteen points,
condensed to 7

By Steven Pockrass

Although our esteemed Dr. J.D. Futch has described former U.S.
President Woodrow Wilson as a Stauntonian who dealt in the cloudy
cuckooland of idealism, I’d like to chance venturing into the world of
strange birds and present my own version of the 14 Points.

Actually, I’ve only seven points, but my four years here have not
been nearly as bloody as World War I. Rather than fall into what M.
Shaw Pyle might refer to as the ‘‘NelPat syndrome,”’ I'll make my
controversial points — for our own President Wilson and the rest of
y'all — while there’s still a chance to respond.

1) Trust must be improved here. We pride ourselves on our Honor
Code, yet students, faculty and administrators don’t trust each other.
Neither do fraternities. And as Jim Crutchfield noted last week, towns-
people accept our checks not because they trust us, but because they
know Cold Check will pay if we don’t.

2) Once trust is re-established, then dialogue can begin and com-
munications can be strengthened. Students need to know where to turn
when they have problems. We need to know where we can and cannot
post notices. A real campus mail system is a must if we are to improve
communications and save time and money.

3) Fraternity membership needs to be de-emphasized. Twenty-five
years ago, Rush had to be held in the fall because there was no dining
hall, Students had to join houses if they wanted a regular place to eat.
But those days are over. What sort of a message do we send when our
determination of social acceptability is based on cocktail party-type
banter and Animal House-type exploit

Rather than start sororities, which surely will be the downfall of
W&L, let’s see some activities that bring the school together. Then the
Greeks won’t feel the need to support the entire social life of W&L and
the five women’s colleges.

4) We need to open our eyes to the world. Rather than live in isola-
tion, we need to promote the study and understanding of current
events. And we also must learn from the lessons of other schools to im-
prove our own. How have other colleges dealt with the increased
drinking age and other issues facing us?

5) A greater respect for this university must be fostered. Why aren’t
there any history classes — and I’d make them mandatory
—specifically about the lives of Generals Washington and Lee? Why
do we smash beer bottles and throw litter onto a National Historic
Landmark? Why aren't we maintaining the speaking tradition and the
other traditions that once made this school unique?

At the same time, we kid ourselves into believing that myths such as
a student-run campus are traditional here. We fight to maintain
sovereignty, never considering the possibility that a student-run cam-
pus works better with an advisor system, that the two are not mutually
exclusive. After all, if everything needs to be student-run, why do we
have professors and coaches?

6) We must enroll a more diverse student body, as well as encourage
and develop more well-rounded, responsible students. President
Wilson last week asked us to look carefully at the Phi staff, the radio
station and other campus groups. The Phi staff is virtually non-
existent. Although the management of WLUR does an excellent job,
many of the DJs misfile records, if they bother to file them at all.
Records and equipment disappear. If the proof is in the pudding, as
Bill Hartog has said, then we’re not even talking watered down Cost
Cutter here. We students must set an example of excellence. And the
faculty and administration must encourage students to develop
beyond the classroom.

7) Financial responsibility must be improved, both among ad-
ministrators and students. Many questions need to be answered. Why
does Buildings and Grounds seem to have so many supervisors? Why
should I have to call B&G in mid-May to get the heat turned off in my
dorm hall? Why are there a dozen deans? Why must every student pay
$25 a year for a rarely used green airplane hangar? Why are we charg-
ed class dues? At the same time, we need to spend more on campus
security. Other costly but necessary improvements also must be

. made.

If you notice, I’ve included nothing in here about coeducation. Like it
or not, it’s here. It’s a dead issue. It should be viewed neither as a
panacea nor as armageddon. It’s not the women who are letting tradi-
tions die. It’s all of us. Nor is it just the women who could be more well-
rounded. It’s all of us.

Only by striving for improvement can we prevent our school from
backsliding. Resting on our laurels is the same as digging our own
grave. Cuckoo ideas, I know, but then again, democracy still exists in
the United States, doesn’t it?

 

 

DRUGS

[ if Continued from page 1

Unit into the public eye. According to
Sgt. Joines, the Lexington Police
Department, the Rockbridge
Sheriff’s Department and the
Virginia State Police have pulled
together in an effort to curb drug
trafficking and use in the Lexington
and Rockbridge area.

, This is a pilot program which
began Jan. 1,” Joines said, adding
that ‘more is happening in the last
few months than we can keep up
with. We do the best we can.”’

‘ : :

The new program is designed to
facilitate drug investigations. Joines
explained that now if officers in other
departments get information on drug

 

use or distribution, they contact him
directly so the information can be us-
ed promptly and effectively.

If on the other hand he gets infor-
mation that is pertinent to other
departments, there is now someone
he can contact directly.

In addition to sharing information,
the three separate law enforcement
agencies also help each other in the
actual arrest of suspects and the issu-
ing of warrants.

For example, last Friday a war-
rant was iseued to search 701 N. Main
Street. Sgt. Joines, along with Officer
Miller and officers from both the
sheriff's department and the state
police, served the warrant.

Chief Beard has high hopes for the
program. “I think it’s great,’ he
said. “I think it will help us control
drug traffic and usage in the city.”’

 

By LEWIS G. JOHN
Dean of Students

 

I commend the editors of the
Ring-tum Phi for the initiative
they have taken in providing this
column as a source of information
and opinions from various mem-
bers of the administration and
faculty. If indeed there is a ‘‘com-
munications gap’’ on campus, this
is certainly one important way to
help bridge that gap. This weekly
forum should be viewed as part of
an ongoing dialogue on matters of
importance and concern to the en-
tire university community, and
student response is encouraged.

I wish to use the space this week
to talk about the nature and scope
of medical care and health ser-
vices provided students at Wash-
ington and Lee. I do so for several
reasons: (1) A subcommittee of
the Student Health Committee,
chaired by Professor Nye of the
Department of Biology, has been
engaged in a year-long study of
our health services and has made
a number of recommendations for
next year; (2) Students often
grumble in vague ways about
their treatment at the health
center, although we receive very
few specific complaints; (3) Many
colleges across the country are
cutting back drastically on the

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1987

 

FROM THE HILL

health services they provide and
are requiring students to rely
much more extensively on com-
munity medical facilities.
Washington and Lee, I hasten to
add, is not among those institu-
tions.

Unlike many colleges, we do not
charge students a separate health
fee. The cost of our student health
services, as for other services pro-
vided by the university, is includ-
ed in the comprehensive tuition
fee paid by all students. Com-
pared with other institutions of
our size and character, the scope
of our health services is very ex-
tensive indeed. Few colleges or
universities with a student enroll-
ment of under 2,000, for example,
have a 12-bed infirmary, a clinic
which is staffed by registered
nurses 24 hours a day during the
academic year, and physicians’
availability on campus for 17%
hours (to be increased to 20 hours
next year) per week.

On the other hand, students
must have realistic expectations
of what services can be provided.
We assume the obligation to pro-
vide the best possible facilities
and medical services for the
short-term treatment of non-
critical illnesses and injuries, but
we obviously cannot offer a wide
range of specialists and provide
long-term treatment of critical
conditions. Lexington and the sur-

Dean John addresses health care

rounding area offer a number of
specialists, as well as excellent
hospital facilities for a communi-
ty of this size, and we must rely
heavily on them. Beginning next
fall, we will require that each
entering student is covered by
some form of family or individual
health and hospitalization in-
surance to supplement the medi-
cal care provided by Washington,
and Lee.

The Student Health Committee
this year studied various pro-
posals to participate in some form
of agreement with Stonewall
Jackson Hospital whereby hos-
pital personnel and facilities
would be utilized more extensive-
ly for student care. We decided,
however, that for reasons of quali-
ty of care, convenience and cost,
the university should continue to
maintain, support and administer
its own student health center. In
addition, physician hours will be
increased, facilities will be im-
proved to permit greater privacy,
the patient waiting area will be
enlarged, and much more em-
phasis will be placed on a coor-
dinated program of preventive
medicine and wellness education.
We believe that the health service
must go beyond the short-term
treatment of students to play a
more active and creative leader-
ship role in the education of all
members of the university com-

munity on
issues.

With the retirement of Dr. Fed-
deman, Dr. Robert M. Pickral will
assume the directorship of the stu-
dent health center next year. In
past years we have had at least
two university physicians so that
students could exercise freedom
of choice in selecting their doctor.
We shall continue that practice in
1987-88 with the addition of a
female internist, Dr. Jane Horton-
Marcella, as the second university
physician.

important health

In contrast with the trend on
many other campuses, Washing-
ton and Lee is increasing rather
than decreasing tbe level of health
services provided its students.
But we need to hear from mem-
bers of the student body in order
to ensure the highest possible
quality of health care. Let us have
your specific complaints,
criticisms and suggestions. The
Student Health Committee is sup-
posed to serve as a continuing
avenue of communication be-
tween the university health ser-
vice and the student body, but it
was very disappointing this year
when only one student applied for
membership; there are three stu-
dent positions on that committee.
Please use the Student Health
Committee, as well as my office,
to make your views known.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hi Ho Silver AWAY!!!!

This statue is part of the Stan Kamen Collection of
Western Art, which is currently on display in the du-

Pont Gallery. The collection was bequeathed to

Washington and Lee in 1986 after Kamen’s death.
Kamen was a 1949 graduate.

 

TEENS

 

()Continued from page 1

camps and other structures, but they
also spend time praying and sharing
their beliefs.

For the 11 weeks of the program,
the participants are allowed to carry
one duffel bag weighing less than 32
pounds. Because of space and weight
constraints, they may carry no books
other than their Bible, and no music,
even by Christian artists.

The summer begins June 11 with
two weeks of training at Teen Mis-
sions headquarters on Merritt Island,
Fla. This “Boot Camp,” as the par-
ticipants call it, includes classes in
bricklaying and Bible memory, steel-
tying and personal evangelism. For

Anemojanis, as a member of a work
team, boot camp includes physical
training.

Following this intense preparation,
the individual teams travel to their
work sites to spend seven weeks on
their projects.

Anemojanis, who is Greek Or-
thodox, transferred to W&L this year
from Northeastern University in
Boston, where she was president of a
church youth group.

“Leaving a group of 100 Greek Or-
thodox and coming to Lexington
where there are three has been quite
a change,”’ she said.

She added that she has visited
nearly every church in Lexington,
but prefers the non-denominational
Virginia Military Institute chapel.

Anemojanis said she first heard of
Teen Missions from W&L freshman
Cathy Williams, who spent the sum-

 

JESSE

~

}Continued from page 1

 

wise.”
* Wilhelmsen added, “I didn’t ac-
tually pick up register forms. I was
too busy jockeying for a position in
line to get a picture with Jackson.”
+ Freshman Tina Vandersteel
thought differently about Jackson’s
tegistration request. ‘His attempts
fo make students vote were
ridiculous. In Virginia, you’ve got to
be a resident before you can vote
locally, in spite of his ‘vote where you
live’ message.”’
* According to Mock Democratic
Gonvention media chairman Tim
Bolling, the packets Jackson
distributed did not actually include
negistration forms, but they did con-
tain information on where to
register. The packets also included
information on how to join the Rain-
bow Coalition, Inc., a political coali-
« tion formed by Jackson.

=

‘“‘When the Mock Convention con-
tacted Jackson’s organization
members of the coalition wanted to
give students the opportunity to
register. Unfortunately, Virginia
state law prohibits such public
registration unless permission is
received 10 days in advance, permis-
sion which we didn’t have,” said Boll-
ing.

Bolling estimated that 145 packets
were handed out.

In addition to their reactions to
Jackson’s voter registration drive,
students also had strong opinions
about Jackson’s actual political pro-

spects.

“He’s got maybe a snowball’s
chance in hell of winning, but he
should try all the same,’ said
freshman Terence Wynne of
Westchester, N.Y.

“IT doubt he’d be elected for the ug-
ly fact that America won't vote a
black into the executive office at this
point in time,’’ Curren said.

Mould agreed, adding that ‘‘as
America is currently going through a
conservative stage, chances are that
his liberalism would defeat him.”

Some saw Jackson’s background
as a member of the clergy — he is an
ordained Baptist minister — as a
stumbling block to being an effective
president, though students for the
most part felt it was a minor pro-
blem.

“Being a minister isn’t the pro-
blem. I think being underqualified
is,’’ said Davis. ‘If he had been a
senator as well, that would be dif-
ferent.”

“There might always be the poss-
ibility that he’d make a decision as
an idealogue rather than a pragmati-
cian, which might become a
drawback,’ said Joel Miller, a
sophomore from Sacramento, Calif.

Miller added that as a Southern
Baptist, he recognized similarities
between Jackson’s encouraging
students to ‘‘come on  wn’’ to the
podium and pick ' _ registration

packets, and the end of certain Bap-
tist services where ministers en-
courage worshippers who are not
members of the congregation to
“come on down and join the church.”

“The connection between
Jackson’s speech and the Mock
Democratic Convention was strong,”
said junior Chris Munsey of An-
napolis, Md. ‘Jackson used the event
as a theme throughout his speech,
showing both the Convention and the
school respect in his taking them
seriously.

“Unfortunately, many people
treated his speech as a side-show to
be forgotten,’ Munsey said.

“It’s hard to measure the worth of
a speaker,’’ Mills said. ‘“‘But there
were more people on the Front Lawn
than there have been for any speaker
in recent memory.”’

He added, “‘If it helps students be
more politically aware, that alone
was worth the Mock Democratic Con-

vention’s effort to bring him to
W&L.”

mers of 1983 and 1984 with teams in
France and Norway.

“T wouldn’t have traded the sum-
mers for the world,” Williams said,

Williams and Anemojanis will give
a slide show and presentation on the
work of Teen Missions Wednesday at
7 p.m. ata site to be announced later.

The cost of participating in this
summer’s program is $2,000, Anemo-
janis said, which she is responsible
for vaising through sponsorships.

According to information furnished
by Teen Missions, about half of the
cost goes toward airfare and bus ex-
penses. Six percent pays for food, 3.3
percent for buses, 4.4 for surface
travel and 4.8 percent for building
materials. The remainder covers ad-
ministration, publicity and printing
costs.

Anemojanis said she has raised
about $500 so far, including equal
donations from W&L and VMI.

Deighan

named
associate

From Staff Reports

 

Christopher J. Deighan, a
Washington and Lee senior, has been
named alumni staff associate at
W&L for the 1987-88 year. He will
assume the post July 1.

As alumni staff associate, Deighan
will work closely with Kathekon, the
student alumni association, con-
tribute to the W&L Alumni Magazine,
and help coordinate on-campus
alumni functions such as homecom-
ing and alumni reunions.

While a student at W&L, Deighan
has been business manager of the
Glee Club, a member of Southern
Comfort, the popular singing group,
and a member of the University
Chorus. He has served as treasurer
of the Lampost, the off-campus
Christian house. In addition to
writing for the student newspaper,
Deighan served as editor of the stu-
dent handbook.

“I’m delighted to have someone of
Chris’s experience. His work with the
W&L Alumni College and the News
Office will make him an invaluable
addition to the alumni office staff,”
says Richard B. Sessoms, W&L
director of alumni programs.

Magazines
donated
to school

From Staff Reports

 

 

Gilmore N. Nunn, a 1931 graduate
of Washington and Lee, has given the
university a complete collection of
original ‘‘National Geographic’’
magazines.

The collection consists of more
than 180 volumes, beginning with the
magazine’s first issue in 1888 and
continuing through 1985. The collec-
tion, which will be housed in W&L’s
library, is valued at $27,500.

New anti-coed shirts are
a way to pocket money

 

By DANA J. BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee University
has been coeducational for almost
two years but that hasn’t stopped
some students from displaying their
dissatisfaction with the switch. Tony
Mitchell, a W&L sophomore, has
given students another way to show
their disapproval.

He has created a T-shirt that shows
definite disapproval. On the front it
says ‘Say no to (W&L) crack’’ and
the back displays a picture of a half-
nude woman with a slash (no can do
sign) through her private parts and
the words ‘‘Repeal coeducation.”

When asked where he got the idea,
Mitchell responded: ‘‘Todd (Young)
and I were sitting around one day
drinking some beers and we wanted
to do something to put money in our

pockets, so we decided to sell T-
shirts.’’ Added Mitchell, ‘‘I personal-
ly have nothing against coeducation.
I’m just an entrepreneur; it was
strictly a business venture.”

Mitchell said they have sold about
150 of the shirts, with most of them
being sold during alumni weekend.
“Those guys just ate them up,’’ he
added. According to the creator,
some have been sold to females, from
the women’s colleges and W&L.
“With the shirts, we tried to put a
smile on their (the women) faces,”’
said Mitchell.

He said they plan to order about 150
more of the shirts and sell as many as
they can this year, and the shirts will
be available during matriculation
next year.

Although there are mixed feelings
about the shirts, Mitchell says no one
from the faculty or student body has
expressed any disapproval to him or
Young.
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1987

 

 

 

   

$19.87

QUIET

Exam time is no time to
be surrounded by noisy
roommates and distrac-
tions. For only $19.87
plus tax, one or two peo-
ple may study in peace
and quiet at the Comfort
Inn! We’ll keep the cof-
fee comin ... . even
remove the TV if you’d
like. Advance reserva-
tions and a valid college
ID are required. Call us
for reservations or in-

Effective 5-24-87 thru
5-31-87.

 

FOR RENT

Summer Storage Space

Rates start at $15.00 per month
Call 463-3521 or stop by

Pres Brown’s Inc.

115 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.

 

 

W&L SNACK BAR
OPEN FOR EXAMS!

 

Canterbury Fellowship
R. E. Lee Memorial Church

ea seem me

 
 
     
     

123 West Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-4981

| formation at 463-7311.

Pes
. Ae OE

Lexington
463-7311

Friday Night -8-12AM
Saturday -8-2PM
Sunday - 8-11AM

 

 

 

The South American Missionary Society of the

 

Episcopal Church (SAMS) is in need of sum-

_. FREE COFFEE AT NIGHT mer ’87 help at their headquarters in Union
Mills, NC for about a week around the 11th of

it in the Phi. McQuicks - 1 Pt. July. The work would involve general

 

 

maintenance or construction work and some
instruction in missionary projects that could
be taken on by a group the following summer
in Central or South America. Transportation
to plus meals and sleeping accommodations
at Union Mills would be provided. This would §
be a great opportunity to learn of your §
church’s mission projects in Central and §
South America. If interested, please call
Steven Riethmiller, VMI Chemistry Depart-
ment, 463-7749 (H) or 6244 (O).

 

 

 

 
       
   
     
     
 

co sda > vt a ad Oa a Sd So aa aa ~ ea ed ail at, ‘wi

 

George’s Hairsty

for men and women
136 Varner Lane

463-3975

Redken - Nexus -
Paul Mitchell - Sebastian

  

Directly behind the Leggett Store
Free Parking

- - eet as am Pa

Hairstylists — Rita, Debbie, Donna, Mary, Jessie, Sandra, George
Mon.-Fri., 8:30-5:00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD
AND
CELLAR DOOR PRODUCTIONS

 

 

 

 

 

PRESENTS

GUADALCANAL DIARY
LOVE TRACTOR

DREAMS SO REAL

FRIDAY, MAY 22

AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES PAVILION
DOORS OPEN AT 8:30 P.M.
ADMISSION: $5 AT THE DOOR
OPEN TO W&L STUDENTS AND INVITED GUESTS
PROPER I.D. REQUIRED
‘ae

*

se ee

* > *»> *

-

$0 % «

¢ e's

es se ae eee eee a

(4
ee

ae

a I

WM VEN EX Nal,

YeMeNaVe%e alg GX
a a

eee

¢
«es

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1987

 

Athletes honored

 

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

 

Twenty-nine individual awards
were presented to Washington and
Lee athletes by their coaches for
their performances in individual
sports as part of the ceremonies at
yesterday’s All-Sports Barbecue.

In baseball, outfielder Chris Talley
was awarded the Captains’ and
Coaches’ Trophy for “unselfish
dedication and contribution.” Talley
hit .305 and led the Generals in runs-
batted-in.

The Captain Dick Smith Award
was presented to junior pitcher
Carter Steuart, who appeared in 12 of
W&L’s 22 games and ended the
season with a 3.58 earned run
average.

Senior Jefferson Harralson was
presented the Leigh Williams
Memorial Award, given annually to
the basketball team’s most valuable
player. Harralson ‘‘is by far one of
the finest [players] I’ve ever coach-
ed,” said head basketball coach
Verne Canfield. 1.

Junior Steve Hancock received the
Coaches’ and Captains’ Award for
outstanding defensive play. The
team’s second-leading scorer, Han-
cock had 43 steals during the 1986-87
season.

The Forest Fletcher Trophy went
to senior Ted Myers for outstanding
contribution to the Washington and
Lee men’s cross country team. The
Captains’ and Coaches’ Trophy for
dedication in men’s cross country
was awarded to senior Ash Andrews.

In women’s cross country, the Cap-
tains’ and Coaches’ Award for
outstanding dedication and perfor-
mance went to sophomore Stephanie
Smith.

Head football coach Gary Fallon

AWARDS

C)Continued from page 1

the Wink Glasgow Spirit and Sport-
smanship Award. A member of the
lacrosse and football teams for all
four of his years at W&L, Krastel was
‘“‘a tremendous role model for the
team and a tremendous team

 

 

presented the C.J. Harrington
Memorial Award for outstanding
defensive play to senior Joe Krastel,
who had 63 tackles and two intercep
tions in 1986. The Dan Ray Justice
Award for excellence on offense went
to senior Randy Brown. The ODAC’s
leading receiver in 1986, Brown
caught 42 passes for 705 yards and
two touchdowns.

Junior John Gammage won the
Felix Smart Memorial Award,
recognizing him as W&L’s most
outstanding golfer. The Cy Twombly
Memorial Award, presented to the
most improved golfer, went to
sophomore Peter Coleman.

Awards in lacrosse went to senior
co-captains T.J. Finnerty and John
Church. Finnerty won the T.W. Mar-
tin Memorial Award, which is
presented in recognition of ‘‘spirit,
desire and dedication.’’ Church won
the Wheelwright Memorial Award,

presented to the team’s most
valuable player.

The Jim Trundle Trophy was
awarded to junior John Coll,

recognizing him as W&L’s most
outstanding men’s soccer player.
The Coaches’ and Captains’ Trophy,
given to the male soccer player who
best exhibits “unselfish play, dedica-
tion, and contribution,’ was
presented to senior Tom Pee, and the
Outstanding Women’s Award went to
freshman Sarah Allen.

In swimming, sophomore David
Reavy «von the Memorial Award,
given annually to W&L’s outstanding
male swimmer. The Twombly-
Eastman Trophy for ‘‘outstanding ef-
fort and teamwork’’ was awarded to
junior Darrin Denny.

The Coaches’ and Captains’ Award
for “‘commitment and performance’
in women’s swimming went to
sophomore Nancy Whalen, and the

leader,’ according to head lacrosse
coach Dennis Daly.

The 1987 Scholar-Athlete Award
went to senior Jon Thornton, a three-
year starter at quarterback for the
football Generals. Thornton, who
received Honorable Mention recogni-
tion in the 1987 Academic All-
America balloting, has been the reci-
pient of numerous academic honors
during his four years at W&L, in-
cluding the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Scholar-Athlete Award,

 

Varner & Pole

Furniture Dealers

115 S. Main St.,

463-2742

“For Your Extra Pieces Of Furniture”

Apartments For Rent

Reasonable Rates
Call 463-3521 or Stop By

Pres Brown’s Inc.

115 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va.

We welcome the new

class to

Spanky’s

Your favorite

downtown restaurant

Wanted:

Good home for cat. Female, all black cat.
Spayed and has all shots. Very lovable indoor

cat.

If interested call:

Vicki Hunton
at 463-5662

or

463-2406-ZBT

or

come by the house to see her

 

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

‘“‘Murph’”’ Murray received the Yeakel Service Award.

Outstanding Women’s Swimming
Award was presented to sophomore
Elizabeth Miles.

Head men’s tennis coach Gary
Franke presented the Memorial Cup,
the team’s outstanding player
award, to sophomore Bobby Mat-
thews. The all-America selection
played number two singles for W&L
and played on the number one
doubles team with junior David
McLeod.

The Washburn Outstanding
Freshman Award went to John Mor-
ris, who compiled a 21-5 record as the
Generals’ number six player. In
women’s tennis, head coach Bill
Washburn presented the Coach’s
Award to senior Sydney Marthinson.

The Forest Fletcher Memorial
Trophy for “‘overall excellence and

the National Football Hall of Fame
and Foundation Scholar-Athlete
Award, and state finalist status in the
Rhodes Scholar competition.

The R.E. “Chub” Yeakel Service
Award for outstanding service to
Generals athletics went to Charles F’.
Murray, university proctor.

The 1987 Outstanding Freshman
Athletic Awards went to Wes Boyd
and Sarah Allen. Boyd won the ODAC
Championship in the 100- and 200-
meter runs in outdoor track and also

sportsmanship” in track and field
was presented to junior Andrew
White, the ODAC Runner-of-the-Year
in indoor and outdoor track.

The Captains’ and Coaches’
Trophy for ‘‘dedication and loyalty”
was presented to senior Thomas
Murray, the ODAC and W&L indoor
record holder in the shot put.

In water polo, Reavy received the
Burt Haaland Award as the team’s
outstanding offensive player. Senior
Kevin Lederer was named the water
polo team’s Outstanding Defensive
Player.

The A.E. Mathis Memorial Trophy
for excellence and leadership in
wrestling went to senior Jeff Mazza,
and the J.C. Peebles Memorial
Award went to junior Steve Castle as
the wrestler who best exhibited
“spirit and thrill of competition.”

played varsity basketball.

Allen, recipient of the Outstanding
Women’s Soccer Award, played on
Washington and Lee’s developmental
women’s soccer team, which will
have its first full varsity season next
fall.

Sophomore Esther Huffman
received the J.L. ‘“‘Lefty’’ Newell
Award, which is given in recognition
of ‘‘outstanding student service’’ to
athletics at W&L.

Matthews, McLeod and

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

From the team’s perspective, the
national men’s tennis championship
tournament in Salisbury, Md., May
11-17 was a disappointment. From an
individual standpoint, however, the
tournament was an extremely suc-
cessful one.

The Generals had three players
earn all-America honors and head
coach Gary Franke was named Divi-
sion III Coach-of-the-Year by the. In-
tercollegiate Tennis Coaches
Association. Sophomores Bobby Mat-
thews and Robert Haley advanced to
the quarterfinals of the 64-man
singles competition and the tandem
of Matthews and junior David
McLeod reached the semifinal round
of the 32-team doubles bracket.

“The Coach-of-the-Year award
should be considered a team achieve-
ment,’ said Franke. “Players win
those awards for coaches.”

Matthews did not lose a singles or
doubles match throughout the entire
team competition. Returning to ac-
tion after missing the last two weeks
of the season with a broken bone in

 

Haley are all-Americans

his playing hand, Matthews was easi-
ly the Generals’ most consistent
player during the year as he finished
the season with a 21-4 singles record.
Equally impressive was his 22-2
record with McLeod in the doubles.

Haley, a transfer from West Point,
compiled a 17-13 singles record.

W&L will lose only one player to
graduation, Roby Mize, as five of the
six singles flights will return for next
season.

“Roby had an outstanding career
at W&L. He was instrumental in br-
inging a team that finished third in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference in his freshman year to se-
cond place in the NCAA’s,” said
Franke. ‘‘He should be proud of that
accomplishment.

“It was a very gratifying season.

The players worked hard and had
some fun.”

Matthews was selected W&L’s
Player-of-the-Year and John Morris
garnered Freshman-of-the-Year
honors. McLeod and junior Chris
Wiman will be captains of next year’s
team as the Generals will once again
be on a quest for that elusive national
championship.

 

Incoming Students

THE
W&L

COLLEGE
REPUBLICANS

Welcome You

Look for us in the matriculation line

 

 

TARRING

 

= STANLEY KUBRICK MICHA

IN VIETNAM

THE WIND DOESN'T BLOW

iT SUCKS

Stanley Kubrick's

FULL METAL JACKET

WARNER BROS

in

 

HERA GUSTAV HASFORD = A8.oN

weer GUSTAU HASFORD
acto STANLEY KUBRICK “ster @azsx,

. wis OTANLEY KUBRICK'S FULL METAL JACKET
MATTHEW MODINE ADAM BALOWIN VINCENT C'ONOFRIO LEE ERMEY DORIAN HAREWOOD ARLISS HOWARD KEVYN MAJOR HOWARO £0 o'Rass

ee PHILIP HOBBS Pacouce® JAN HARLAN

   

 

 

 
aod
2.
a

 

By MICHAEL TUGGLE
Entertainment Editor

 

Progressive Music Quiz
1. ‘Love Tractor”’ is:

a. A fetish for farm equipment

b. Chevrolet’s new line for farmers

c. One of the hottest progressive
bands around
2. ‘‘Guadalcanal Diary” is:

a. A team of female ditchdiggers

b. A Philippine soap opera

c. One of the hottest progressive
bands around
3. ‘Dreams So Real” is:

a. A Freudian psych class using

electric shock

b. That date you woke up with Sun-

day morning

c. One of the hottest progressive

bands around

O.K. Check your score. If you
answered ‘‘a”’ or “‘b’’ on any of the
questions you get no points and you
are excused from the rest of this arti-
cle.

If, however, you answered ‘‘c’’ on
all three, you are entitled to attend
the concert of the year, tomorrow
night, when the Student Activities
Board brings you Love Tractor,
Guadalcanal Diary, and Dreams So
Real, in concert at the Student Ac-
tivities Pavilion.

“This is an incredible combina-
tion,”’ said Jim New, S.A.B. opera-

tions director. ‘It should be the best
concert of the year.”

Indeed it should be. Dreams So
Real and Love Tractor are.both com-
ponents of the phenomenal wave of
progressive musicians coming from
the musical megalopolis of the South,
Athens, Ga.

As unlikely as it may seem, this
college town of 40,000 has become the
breeding ground for progressive
music. The B-52’s burst on the scene
first with “The B-52’s’’ and ‘‘Wild
Planet,’’ but were upstaged fast
when R.E.M. got to town. ‘‘Mur-
mur,” “Reckoning” and “Fables of
the Reconstruction” quickly became
what people wanted to hear from
Athens, and while R.E.M.
skyrocketed, other bands struggled.

But this is all slowly beginning to
change. After playing fraternity por-
ches, clubs and college gigs up and
down the East Coast, success is final-
ly beginning to shine down on ‘‘other
bands from Athens.”

All three bands will be bringing the
shows from their new albums to Lex-
ington tomorrow night. Dreams So
Real will open the concert at 9 p.m.
with tracks from ‘‘Father’s House,”’
the follow-up album to their hit single
“Everywhere Girl.”’

It’s difficult to sum up the music of
Barry Marler, Trent Allen and Drew
Worsham in concrete terms. Accor-

R.E.M. moves in new
‘Dead Letter Office’

By GREG UNGER
Music Critic

 

I’m taking only one course this
term, so I find myself with plenty of
time on my hands. Naturally, I’m
spending my spring term pursuing
many worthy endeavors — going to
Goshen, playing golf, and sitting in
the sun on my front porch drinking
cheap beer and pondering the
mysteries of the universe. One great
mystery is whether or not R.E.M.
will ever produce bad (or even
mediocre) music. I highly doubt it.
Indeed, my firm belief in the musical
genius of Athens’ (Ga.) finest re-
mains unshaken after listening to
their new ‘‘Dead Letter Office’ L.P.
The album itself is new, though the
songs are mainly B sides of previous
releases as well as tunes borrowed
from earlier extended plays that had
been available only to radio stations.

P.L.O. starts with “Crazy,’’ a fine
song with the uncanny ability to
make you want to listen to it again
and again — perhaps due to the tune
itself, but I suspect due more to a
return of Michael Stipe’s semi-
undecipherability, reminiscent of
their “Reckoning” L.P. “The Voice
of Harold’ is a clone of ‘Seven
Chinese Brothers,” another track off
“Reckoning,”’ the second of R.E.M.’s

‘Sad Cafe’ opensFriday

By MICHAEL TUGGLE

Entertainment Editor

After meeting Carson McCullers in
Lexington in the early 1960s,
American playwright Edward Albee
adapted her novella ‘‘The Ballad of
the Sad Cafe” for the stage in 1963,
Now, nearly 25 years later, that col-
laboration will again come to life
from May 22 to May 27 on the stage of
Lexington’s Henry Street Playhouse.

“The Ballad of the Sad Cafe”
centers around three misfits caught
up in a triangle of love, power, and
control; yet more than anything, it is
an examination of human character.
Director Joseph Martinez agrees.

“The real genius of Carson Mc-
Cullers,’’ he said, “was that she
understood the very essentials of
human conflict.’’ Nowhere is that
more evident than in this production.

“The Ballad of the Sad Cafe” is an
excellent, powerful drama, yet one
that is quite hard to prepare. With on-
ly six weeks to work with in the
Washington and Lee spring term,
preparation of a production such as
this would seem almost impossible.
However, Joseph Martinez has a uni-
que program that enables him to
undertake major projects each
spring.

Total theatre (Drama 139) is a
course offered in the spring term at
W&L whose central premise is to
create a theatre company patterned
after a professional theatre com-
pany. Students put in a minimum of
eight hours a day, five days a week
doing everything from research, to
production, to building the sets, to ac-
ting. The result: a highly successful,
professional performance of a major
theatrical work, and an educational
experience not found in many under-
graduate or graduate programs in
the country.

While the production is spearhead-
ed by the Drama 139 class, there are
other people who participate as well
Lexington resident Hunter Mohring
plays “‘the perfect Miss Amelia,’ ac
cording to Martinez; while Lexington
High School student Elizabeth Beard
will take on the role of diminutive

six albums. ‘Burning Down’”’ and
“Burning Hell’? are both ‘‘hot”’
songs, roughtly up-tempo and raw,
yet pleasant reminders of R.E.M.’s
younger days.

R.E.M. can still croon slower songs
with the best of them, though, as
evidenced by ‘‘Pale Blue Eyes’’ and
“Femme Fatale,”’ two highlights of a
generally more relaxed second side.
As Stipe says after ‘‘Pale Blue
Eyes,”’ ‘‘that was real good....’’ Yep,
I agree with you, Mike.

The album wraps things up with
‘“Walter’s Theme”’ and a remake of
the classic ‘‘King of the Road.”’ I’m
told that these tracks were recorded
by Mike and the boys after a serious
alcoholic binge. Some background
babbling on both tunes leads me to
suspect that this might be true, yet
still doesn’t tarnish the quality of the
songs. “Dead Letter Office’ is
classic R.E.M. packed with 15 songs
that resemble the ‘“‘Reckoning”’ L.P.
— or even “Chronic Town.” Not sur-
prisingly, all of “‘Chronic Town,”’ the
band’s critically acclaimed mini-
L.P., is included on the compact disk
version.

Ear Value: * * * *
Best Songs: ‘Crazy,’
Down,” “Femme Fatale.”’

“Burning

cousin Lymon. Geology professor
Odell McGuire and technical director
Gary Humiston provide live tradi-
tional music on banjo, guitar, and fid-
dle. The highly colorful and com-
plicated set was designed by
Associate Professor of Drama Don
Lillie.

Tickets for performances of ‘“The
Ballad of the Sad Cafe’’ are available
for Saturday night May 23 through
Wednesday night May 27. All perfor-
mances begin at 8:00 p.m. For reser-
vations, call 463-8637.

BACK PAGE

Athens bands ready to rock

ding to Marler, ‘“‘There’s a definite
understated momentum running
through the music.”’ It’s just the kind
of music you want to listen to over
and over.

Love Tractor will crank up around
10:30 p.m. with cuts off its ‘‘This
Ain’t No Outerspace Ship” LP. This
album, unlike the primarily in-
strumental LPs ‘Around the Bend”
and ‘Til the Cows Come Home,”’ is
full of vocals, eight to be exact. ‘‘We
made the big leap,’’ Love Tractor
guitarist Mark Cline told the ‘“Birm-
ingham News.”

Now that its music has vocals,
however, part of Love Tractor’s uni-
queness is gone, and comparisons to
other Southern bands are likely to
surface. If they do, Cline will take
care of them.

‘*We don’t consider ourselves part
of. that Southern guitar revival
American crap,’’ Cline commented
in a March interview with “Spin”
magazine. ‘“‘The conservativeness of
the old Southern bands gave us
something to react against and the
boredom gave us a space of time to
fill.””

Somewhere around midnight, after
more than two hours of today’s best
progressive music, the “Jamboree”
will begin when Murray Attaway,
Jeff Walls, Rhett Crowe and John
Poe take the stage as Guadalcanal

The Ring-tum Phi, May 21, 1987

Diary.

“Rolling Stone’ says of ‘Jam-
boree,” ‘‘...The potential on display
is cause for some celebration,” while
“Billboard” calls the band ‘‘superbly
versatile.” If there was ever a ques-
tion, there isn’t one now.
Guadalcanal Diary is racing toward
the forefront of progressive music,
and it’s almost there.

“Watusi Rodeo” started things off
in the fall of 1983. Then, when ‘‘Walk-
ing in the Shadow of the Big Man’”’
was released a year later, the group
began to get some of the exposure it
had wanted.

A national tour, followed by a
European tour in 1985, further in-
creased Guadalcanal Diary’s
popularity, and suddenly success
was in reach. In May 1985, that suc-
cess finally came in the form of a
recording contract with Elektra
Records, and Guadalcanal was off.

Tomorrow night’s concert could
very well be the biggest concert
Washington and Lee has seen in the
past two years. S.A.B. chairman
Glynn Alexander said “the concert
should be a really big show. The
bands know each other and they are
really looking forward to playing
here.”’

The doors will open tomorrow night
at 8:30 p.m. and tickets will be $5 at
the door.

 

Hamric & Sheridan Jewelers

Gifts for all occastions

R. Sheridan

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

3-bedroom house with living room, kitchen, bath,
laundry room with washer and dryer.

Being restored for upcoming school year!

$375/mo. 214 Lewis Street

Call 463-2514

House For Rent

'87-'88
4-5 Students
Call

463-6828
Mon.-Thurs.

For Sale

Suzuki GS450L 1980
$650 w/helmet and cover

Call Rob
463-6043

 

For Quality Accommodation
& Dining Call

Quality Inn ms

Raphine

ROUTE 1, BOX 438, RAPHINE, VIRGINIA 24472

703-377-2604

Midway between
Lexington & Staunton.
Take exit 54 off I-81

 

Large House
For Rent

5 bedrooms, 2 baths, living room,

kitchen, dining room in Lexington.

$625/month.

Call Jim 463-3697 evenings

 

 

CALENDAR

Friday, May 22
Board of Trustees Meeting. Medical Ethics Institute.
7:30 p.m. — MEDICAL ETHICS INSTITUTE LECTURE: “Dealing
With Catastrophe: The Patient’s Ordeal,” William F. May, Southern
Methodist University. Classroom “‘E,’’ Lewis Hall. Public invited.
8 p.m. — PLAY: The Ballad of the Sad Cafe. University Theatre. For
reservations, call theatre box office (463-8637).

Saturday, May 23
Board of Trustees Meeting. Medical Ethics Institute.
7 a.m. — BIRDWALK: Woods Creek parking lot (near W&L law
school).
8 p.m.— PLAY: Ballad of the Sad Cafe. University Theatre.

Sunday, May 24
2:38 — Law School Commencement. Front Lawn. Commencement
speaker. The Hon. Sol Wachtler, Chief Judge of the State of New York
Court of Appeals.
8 p.m.— PLAY: Ballad of the Sad Cafe. University Theatre.

Monday, May 25
7 p.m. — SHAKESPEARE ON FILM: King Lear. Room 203, Reid Hall.
8 p.m.— PLAY: Ballad of the Sad Cafe. University Theatre.

Tuesday, May 26
8 p.m. — PLAY: Ballad of the Sad Cafe. University Theatre.

Wednesday, May 27
3:30 p.m. — JOURNALISM HONORS PRESENTATION: “Reporters,
Readers, Subjects and Sources: Understanding the Social Contract.”
Steven F. Pockrass, '87. Room 203, Reid Hall.
4:15 p.m. — POETRY READING: Dabney Stuart, W&L professor of

English. Autograph party for Don’t Look Back to follow reading.
University Bookstore.

6:30 p.m. — SENIOR NIGHT. Lee Chapel.
8 p.m. — PLAY: Ballad of the Sad Cafe. University Theatre. |

 

 

PIZZA SERVED HERE, TO GO,
OR DELIVERED

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy®
Pizza, served anytime.

   
 
        
 
    
     
  

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. //o7.-
Fri., and any time Sai. &
Sun.

   
 
    
 
   
   
   
  

* Personal Pan Pizza for
lunch. Available from 13:00
am-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

© Phus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sa~ Jwiches, Beverages.

e! ¢ved to your table, or
uvered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have |
your order hot and ready to
go.
¢ Each Wednesday night,
§:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only $3.49. Children under 6
years-99°.

     
  
 
  
 
  
 

© 1985 Pizza Hut, Inc.

 
 

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington

463-7000

a.
Aut.

 
   

 
 
    

 

 

  

 

 

purchase program.

 

TODAY’S SMARTEST LENDING OUTFIT:
FORD MOTOR CREDIT COMPANY

Courtesy Motors explains why...

Getting college grads the pre-approved
credit they need is smart business. Ford Credit
and Courtesy Motors know that. And
if you are working on an advanced
degree or graduating with a Bachelor's
Degree between October 1, 1986 and
September 30, 1987, you may qualify
for their special college graduate

If you do, you'll receive a $400 cash
allowance from Ford. Make your best deal
on any qualifying vehicle and use the money
toward your down payment, or Ford will send

eee | weeee_yeee eee.

 

you a $400 check after.the purchase or lease.
The money is yours whether you finance or not.
The amount of your credit depends

COLLER -
‘> “Ce on which of these qualified vehicles

 
  
  

CO;
STF ws % youchoose:
i y.
= 2 Ford cars: Escort, Escort EXP,
2 > Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird, Taurus.
9 ™ — Ford trucks: Aerostar, Bronco II,
+ x Ranger. Tracer, Lynx, Topaz, Cougar, Sable.

Ne

% CS So hurry. !f a vehicle is not in dealer
“IAS pro~

stock you must order by June 1, 1987, and
you must take delivery of any vehicle by
August 31, 1987.

 

ACM Clg
Credit <..

Company

 

 

MAKE THE SMART MOVE. GET ALL THE DETAILS TODAY AT

COURTESY

Ford An Mercury Cee
~ . v
2019 Forest Ave., i Maii2
Buena Vista ‘ny, Kas “ OL 1916

)

 

 

 
