cortege

ina

eel

 

The way it is

 

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 12

Virginian Hornsby
scores a hit

Che KRing-tum Phi

   
 

page 6

   

 

 

The way it was

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Talkback asks
about Coke v. Pepsi

page 3

  
 
   

 

Your Christmas weekend weather

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Fair, highs in the 50’s,
lows in the 30’s

 

DECEMBER 4, 1986

 

 

GENERAL
NOTES

 

 

See you

next year

This issue of The Ring-tum Phi
will be the final issue for the fall
term. Publication will resume the
first week of the winter term, with
the next issue appearing Thurs-
day Jan. 8. The Phi wishes every-
one good luck on their final exams
and a happy holiday season.

Executive intern

Students interested in an intern-
ship with The Presidential Ad-
vance Office during the winter
term or the summer with the
Presidential Advance Office con-
tact Professor Connelly in the
Politics Department, Room. 108 of
the Commerce School as soon as
possible.

Legislative intern

Students interested in a six
credit internship course with con-
gress please contact Professor
Connelly in the Politics Depart-
ment, Room 108 of the Commerce
School. The deadline for applica-
tion is January 9.

Oxford intern

Students interested in spending
a year at University College Ox-
ford should contact William J.
Watt, professor of chemistry. The
program is designed for students
in their junior year, but in excep-
tional cases, a senior may be con-
sidered. Nominations for students
by faculty members are due by
January 15. A letter of reommen-
dation should be included with the
nomination and should be ad-
dressed to William J. Watt, Chair-
man, Univ. Student-Exchange
Committee, Howe Hall.

Food for help

There is a collection box for can-
ned food at the library and collec-
tion box at the university center
for clothes. Donations will be
given to T.A.P., an organization in
Lexington which provides help to
the poor in the county.

Food for thought

The W&L Journal of Science is
still accepting articles for our
spring publication. Articles are
due the week before February
break. Contact Craig Monroe
about the topic of your article as
soon as possible.

IFC drives

The Interfraternity Council food
drive will end Wednesday, when
they will be collecting food in
Fairfax Lounge from 6 to 6:30

p.m
Redl, set, go

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of ‘Colonel Redl’’
(Hungary/West Germany, 1985),
directed by Istvan Szabo.

Showings will be at 8:00 p.m. on
Friday, December 5 and Satur-
day, December 6 in Lewis Hall
Classroom A. There is no charge
for admission. The film is in Ger-
man, with English subtitles.

“Colonel Redl’’ features the
great German actor Klaus Maria
Brandauer, who earlier col-
laborated with director Szabo in
the Academy Award-winning
“Mephisto” (previously shown by
the Film Society). ‘Colonel Redl”’
is a complex and powerful drama
of ambition, intrigue, and betray-
al. Brandauer portrays the title
role, a high-ranking military com-
mander of the Austro-Hungarian
Empire whose mystery-shrouded
suicide in Vienna in 1913 prompted
rumors of treason and sexual
duplicity

 

 

Jammin’

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

The Rev. Billy C. Wurtz plays for a crowd at General Headquarters last Friday night.

Spinners return to W&L

 

By JOHN PENSEC
News Editor

 

Friday night’s Spinner’s concert
will be different from previous con-
cert’s in that there will be a beer
garden, according to Tem Myers,
concert co-ordinator for the Student
Activities Board.

“From every indication we have,
the ABC will be at this concert in
force,” he said, adding that this con-
cert is going to be a ‘‘test case’ for
future concerts. ‘‘Depending on how
we do this, we may or may not get a
beer license for the next concert.”

Myers added that this could affect
Fancy Dress in March.

The beer garden will be located to
the left of the pavilion’s entrance and
will extend to the sound board. Two

rows of tables will separate the
garden from the rest of the pavilion.
The empty area in between the tables
is to ensure that beer is not passed to
those outside of the garden. Security
officials will patrol this buffer zone.
Myers said that only students of
legal age to drink will be allowed in-

side thé garden; braceléts will be us-~"

ed to distinguish them from the other
concert-goers.

Other changes require concert-
goers to present two forms of iden-
tification before entering the
pavilion. Myers said that required
forms of identification are a college
id. and a driver’s license. The
driver’s license was chosen as the
second form of identification because
there is less of a chance of a driver’s
license being forged.

All guests must be accompanied by

a W&L student.

“T think the beer garden is a good
idea as long as they can enforce the
law. It will help boost attendance at
similar events,” said Mae Gibson, a
senior from Atlanta.

The Inter-Fraternity Council is
sponsoring free round: trip shuttle
service to the concert with departure
from four sites in Lexington. The
sites and times of departure are:
ZBT and KA, 9:00 p.m.; S.A.E., 9:30
p.m.; Delta Tau Delta, 10:00 p.m.;
and the street side of Graham-Lees
Dorm 10:30 p.m.

Indecision will open for the Spin-
ners at 9:15 with the Spinners ex-
pected to begin at 10:45. All tickets,
whether purchased in advance or at
the door, are $8. There was a mistake
on the posters which said that tickets
purchased at the door would cost $10.

ola change
hits campus

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

In a region where the name ‘‘coke”’
is synonynous with soda, the recent
switch-over by the W&L food service
to Pepsi has been pure blasphemy in
the eyes of die-hard Coke fans. But
for numerous business reasons, the
parting with Coca Cola, Inc. was an
inevitable and necessary business
move, said Gerald Darrell, director
of the university’s food service.

Problems with Coca-cola first sur-
faced with the inoperability of food
service vending machines selling
Coke and other brands of soda. Com-
plaints were received about products
being out and change not being
returned to such an extent that
“these complaints soon far outpaced
complaints about the Dining Hall
food,”’ said Darrell.

“It became evident that the cause
of these machines breaking down
was not the result of prolonged
beatings by frustrated, thirsty
students, but rather of faulty equip-
ment in the machines themselves,”
he said.

Billing procedures presented pro-
blems for the food service as well.
Darrell explained that because a
local bottler handles all billing for
campus vending machines, and the
parent company handles billing for
all fountain sodas, two bills were sent
each month to food service. In the
spring of last year, bureaucratic
oversight from this complex billing
procedure resulted in over-charging
for several months straight.

“The complexity of the invoices, in
addition to Coca-Cola's inability to ef-
ficiently deal with problems due to
the size of the company, led us to
believe that ensuing problems would
continue along these lines, despite
Coca-Cola’s assurance that they
wouldn’t,’”’ Darrell commented.

“A friend of mine, who happens to
be food service director for Roanoke

College, brought it to my attention
that Pepsi was offering a more effec-
tive, and far easier way of hooking up
the syrup cannisters for the soda
fountains in the Dining Hall, the Co-
op, and the GHQ,” he said.

“Called ‘Bag-in-the-Box’, it is a
syrup container that is much easier
to hook up than the bulky and heavy
steel cannisters we were using. When
empty, these containers are easy to
move and dispose of, and are left
with absolutely no syrup in them. The
system is so much more effective,”
he said.

But perhaps the greatest motiva-
tion for the switch came when price
savings were considered. ‘Pepsi of-
fered a savings 38% beyond what
Coke could offer. When one considers
a 38% savings on the 7,000 gallons of
syrup we use each year, with an up-
front savings of a dollar at the
minimum on each gallon, we are con-
sidering a savings of over $7,000,”
Darrell pointed out.

As much of the furor over the
change-over to Pepsi has been with
regard to the replacement of Coke
vending machines with those from
Pepsi, Darrell points out that one ad-
vantage to the move will be far better
service by these machines. “Our
agreement with Pepsi means we will
service the machines ourselves. Con-
sequently, the frequency of sold-out
soda and lack of change will be
almost eliminated,’’ he said.

Darrell pointed out that in addition
to the increased number of brands of
soda offered, suggestions are con-
sidered for other brands. ‘Even
though there are Coke machines on
campus still — those in Parmly and
Doremus Gymnasium are not run by
food service — we are taking into
consideration the possibility of offer-
ing Classic Coke in the present ven-
ding machines.”

A petition hangs outside of the
Commerce school mailroom with
over 150 names signed, requesting
bringing ‘Coke back to campus.’

Journalism professor attacks press arrogance

 

By STEVEN POCKRASS
Assignment Editor

 

You'd think that after 45 years as a

professional reporter, Clark R.
Mollenhoff would be very quick to de-
fend his profession.

But in the most recent issue of Quill
magazine, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s booming-voiced journalism
professor lashes out as strongly at
the media as he’s wont to do against
corrupt politicians.

Their crime, he writes,
rogance.

“This is the position I’ve taken con-
sistently,’’ Mollenhoff said in an in-
terview. ‘‘The public image of the
press as ‘arrogant’ is the biggest pro-
blem the press has in retaining its
First Amendment rights,’’ he wrote
at the start of his article.

“The problem is really with big
media as with big government,”’ Mol-
lenhoff said. Although he accused on-
ly a small minority of the nation’s
practicing journalists of being ar-
rogant, the 1958 Pulitzer Prize win-
ner did cite 10 common journalistic
sins dealing with disregard for the
rights, reputation and privacy of
others, as well as for the nation’s na-
tional security.

Journalists who do not have
legitimate reasons for printing
stories are ‘‘likely to strike viewers
as needlessly macho, callously ar-

is ar-

rogant and just plain destructive,”
Mollehnoff wrote. He said that a
University of lowa study showed that
70 percent of the nation’s libel cases
would not have been filed if there had
been any sympathy shown for the
subjects, such as through the simple
correction of errors. This is why polls
rate journalists no higher than used
car salesmen in terms of honesty and
ethical standards.

Mollenhoff said the guts of the arti-
cle came from a speech he delivered
at the University of Virginia, in
Charlottesville. Using the recently
publicized libel suits against Time
magazine and CBS as examples, he
argued that the media needed to
strive harder for accuracy and fair-
ness instead of who got the facts first.
“Truth is still a rather complete
defense” in libel suits, he wrote. But
just as a woman cannot be ‘‘sort of”
pregnant, a journalist cannot be
“sort of” right.

A former Washington bureau chief
who went from covering an Iowa
county courthouse to the White
House, Mollenhoff argued in the arti-
cle for a return of the double- and
triple-checking that he said were
standard Operating Procedure
before the Watergate affair. In the in-
terview, he said niany media pro-
blems were the result of what he
termed the “Deep Throat syn-
drome.”

Mollenhoff’s arguments will be

Photographer shows

By JOHN PENSEC
NewsEditor

 

President Ronald Reagan once ad-
dressed a group of photographers by
stressing the importance their form
of journalism has on life. They are
able, he said, to capture the essence
of a subject whereas writers are
limited by words. He could have had
two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning
photographerWilliam Strode in mind
when he said this

Strode, co-owner of Harmony
House Publishers, has just published
‘‘Washington and Lee,’ a
photographic celebration of the beau-
ty the University affords all who are

exposed to it.

The book, priced at $33, has passed
the $60,000 mark in sales. There is a
special, limited edition signed by the
photographer, available for $100.

According to Frank Parsons, ex-
ecutive assistant to university Presi-
dent John D, Wilson, Harmony House
approached the University about put-
ting the book together. In the past
they have published similar volumes
about Sewanee, the University of the
South, and Kentucky’s governor’s
mansion.

The difference between those
books and the one about W&L is, ac-
cording to Helena Roller, manager of
the W&L Bookstore, the vibrancy and

 

 

 

CLARK R. MOLLENHOFF

familiar to anyone who has taken one
of his journalism classes. In the arti-
cle, he cited the seven rules for sound
investigative reporting that he codi-
fied as a beginning professor at W&L
10 years ago. Although the recent
disinformation scandal has been a
major topic in his classes this year,
the scandal broke after he wrote the
article and could not be included.
Mollenhoff called ‘‘disinformation”’ a
bad choice of words and said the
scam was ‘‘an indictment of those
members of the press who get used.”’

The article, titled ‘‘An epidemic of
arrogance,’’ is the cover story in the
November Quill, the monthly publi-
cation of the Society of Professional
Journalists/Sigma Delta Chi. The ad-
viser to W&L’s chapter of SPJ/SDX,
Mollenhoff said he received only
positive comments about the article
at the SPJ/SDX national conference
in November. He has received lauda-
tory letters from Charlie Thompson
of ABC’s ‘20/20’ program and
Virginius Dabney, former editor of
the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

 

 

Executive
call to
Mollenhoff

By SEAN BUGG
Editor

 

 

On the last Friday before
Thanksgiving break officially began,
a special phone call came for jour-
nalism professor Clark R. Mollen-
hoff. As he was in class, however, the
secretary of the journalism and com-
munications department, Florence
G. Cook, took a message.

So when Mollenhoff finished with
his class, he tried to return President
Ronald Reagan’s call.

When he called, the President was
busy with some business, so
Mollenhoff left a message.

A while later the President called
back and the two finally had the
chance to converse.

Mollenhoff said that Reagan’s call
was in response to a letter Mollenhoff
had sent to him. In the letter Mol-
lenhoff told Reagan that he was ‘‘sup-
portive... and understanding of his

_) See Call, page 4

 

 

‘vibrance’ of W&L in new book

life Strode captured in his photo
graphs of W&L and the surrounding
area. The pictures in the other books
have the same richness and depth as
the ones of W&L, but they are devoid
of signs of life, she said.

Strode photographed W&L over the
course of a year and captured most
aspects of the University. Fancy
Dress and commencement are pic-
tured, but fraternities, which play
such a large part in the University’s
social life, were noticeably absent
from the book. The one exception is
the Kappa Alpha house. KA was
founded on campus in 1865

But the book, which includes pic-
tures from the university's archives,

contains quotations about W&L
which add a dimension to the book

Meredith Nicholson wrote, for ex-
ample, in A Virginia Impression:
W&L, written in 1906, that the
“college to this day puts a mark on
its alumni which is as indelible as it is
indefinable.”’

In the preface to the introduction to
the book, it is said that ‘‘So much
good and true endures at Washington
and Lee that it permits the Universi-
ty to exist apart from time, even as
changes in clearly perceptible ways
from one student generation to
another. Virtually all the color
photographs in this book were made
within the past year, yet they span

decades in their evocative imagery.”’

But perhaps the most beautiful
quotation in the book is by Jonathan
Daniels. In 1942 he wrote, ‘‘I brought
you this way only because I wanted
you to see the South at its most
beautiful: the green sloping campus
to the red brick buildings with the tall
white porticoes of Washington and
Lee University. I wish it were the pic-
ture of the South. I wish, indeed, it
were the picture of America.”’

While the university may not be the
picture of America, this book gives a
new perspective, through pictures
and words, to Washington and Lee
University

a > mes

”

a a
OPINION
Dean surplus

Has anyone noticed the number of deans Washington and
Lee employs? Eleven deans at a university with a student
body population of 1,814 students is simply too many.

The lineup of deans includes a dean of the college, an
associate dean of the college, a dean of students, an associate
dean of students, an associate dean of students for minority
affairs, an associate dean of students for Greek Affairs, a
dean of freshmen, a dean of the school of commerce, eco-
nomics and politics, a dean of the law school, an associate
dean of the law school and an assistant dean of the law
school. When a replacement for former Dean Capetto is
hired, he or she will be called associate dean of students and
director of career services. C’mon! What’s next — an assoc-
iate dean of students for food services?

Dean of the College John Elrod said that while the image of
a dean one conjures up is that of an academic dean, tradi-

tionally there have been deans for student programs as well.
Elrod explained that the associate deans of students are

given those titles because they are closely related to the dean
of students. While many of those now called associate dean of
students are excellent in doing their duties and deserve
thanks and appreciation for jobs well done. However, the
quality of their work is not being questioned, their titles are.

Does a person deserve the title of dean simply because he
or she caters to specific groups of students? The answer is a
resounding NO!

As enrollment increases, the university should seek ways
of limiting students into a cohesive group. Having a dean for
specific areas of student life or for specific students does not
do this. The university, however, should be commended for
resisting with the advent of coeducation, the urge to create a
dean of women. There is, after all, no dean of men.

The title of dean is a special one and indicates what should
be a unique place in the structure of any university. It should
only be given to those who earn it through distinguished ser-
vice to the university.

In urging the university to examine it policy in giving out
titles, it is suggested that the university consider the title of
assistant to the dean of students for specific areas. It may not
cut the number of people employed by the university; it is not
meant to. It would, however, add prestige to the title of dean.

Coke v. Pepsi

POINT

Since returning from Thanksgiving break, students have
been bantering back and forth about the benefits of Coke
versus Pepsi. (Coke’s better!” “Pepsi is!” “Is not!” ‘Is
too!’’) The Co-op is reminiscent of John Belushi on the old
Saturday Night Live: ‘“‘No Coke. Pepsi. Cheeseburger,
cheeseburger, chips....’’

The base of all these arguments seems to be this: the stu-
dent body has finally found something worthy of their time
and attention. No worrying about nuclear annhiliation, the
starving people in Africa (and America) or even student con-
duct for this affluent, cosmopolitan student body. Nope, they
want their Coke.

Just imagine what could be accomplished on a major issue
if the students put in the amount of work they have on the
Coke-Pepsi controversy. Why not a petition to the Board of
Trustees for divestment from South Africa? for nuclear
disarmament? or even for the opposite of these two issues?
The energy can be directed toward something more con-
structive than what soft drink is offered on campus.

 

—WSB
COUNTERPOINT

The people of the United States, and of Washington and Lee
in particular, take their drinking seriously, and they should
be allowed to drink what they choose.

in explaining why he chose to switch from providing Coca-
Cola to providing Pepsi Gerald Darrell, director of the
university’s food services, cited the fact that ‘Pepsi offered a
savings 38% beyond what Coke could offer.’’ He went on to
explain that the savings works out to over $7,000. That
amount is $600 less than the comprehensive tuition fee as
listed in the 1986-87 university catalog. The university should
admit one more student and apply his or her tuition to the
cost of maintaining the coke machines. With the way each
freshman class is growing no one will notice one more stu-
dent.

The battle between Coca-Cola and Pepsi will continue as
long as the two exist. One would think, however, that with tui-
tion as high as it is, students would be provided with their soft
drink of choice or consulted on what is offered, something
that did not happen in this case.

There is a petition in the C-school to bring Coca-Cola back.
The efforts of those who have already signed it are to be com-
mended. If such action accomplishes nothing else, it proves
beyond a reasonable doubt that students at Washington and

Lee are not apathetic when an issue means something to
them.

4 =

She Ring-tum Phi
NEWS STAFF
GNOR is sci vee ers dieceswededneerebedecscencnsenesbeuececuscuceneuns Sean Bugg
OWED ncn ciccscrccecendc seas sssvecenoueseuesscunesscecsied John Pensec
Managing Editor, Entertainment Editor. ..............000eeeeeeeees Marshall Boswell
BOOT Te 5 occ cea r sh kescccecscccecceticessevesestssatessdises David Emrich
PPO FI 555 «00.05 hu Ehin bao 6c ccc hace ss hetde rece deceteases Perry Hayes
Asalotant Bperts TGMG. oo... ccc ccsccesssccesccccccecccccsesssceceses Mike Shady
RBM II 55 ods cacessocrccrsssc identities iene Steve Pockrass
EDITORIAL PAGE
i ig See Tee ee oer Marie Dunne
re ee Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
oi ee ee Greg Turley
REVORUSINE UREIET oo ici siv cba csc es ceticcccdccctecesecescsietsss Robert Jones
Circulation MAROGOR. 6 c5scsciccrccececscsscccesccscnsooccceeeececs Mathew Horridge

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of

 

he Student Center, by 5 p.m. Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
t Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450, This newspaper observes current court
| finitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi, December 4, 1986

 

 

 

 

2

 

 

Shocking

MY VIEW

By Edward Klank III

 

 

Washington Irving once described

 

   

T

am ee

col

 
 

tt 7

   
 
  

ec
see HERE WITH WASHINGTON AND Lee STUDENTS
WHO ARE CLEARLY INVOLVED IN THE SERIOUS
POLITICAL ISSVES OF THE 2305.”

affection as ‘‘a woman’s whole life.”
Unfortunately, this statement seems
to be true for many students of our
university, both male and female. At
an institution of higher learning, one
would think that the learning process
would be the students’ primary con-
cern. However, many of our students
are making physical exhibitions of
attraction, on campus during the
academic week, which, in good taste,

displays of affection between

Some of these physical activities

downright repulsing. A simple
to exchange greetings,
cassion, possibly, maybe, once in a

haven’t seen each other for y*ars.

style tongue kissing, which at times

wonders whether this group of per-

Examples of this lewd behavior

the guy’s right hand in her back

 

QQ eeeEeEeEeE——EE———E————e———eE—eeEEe
Exams and Honor
Principles of privilege

luckily a guy. If she had time would
she have given him a hickie? Did s’ >
try to charge admission to the ¢. ... |
“moviegoers?” An upperclass ROTC

together (literally) all day “ne ' ues-
day. Finally, they stoppea, turned ;
around, looked into each other’s ,
beady eyeballs, and tightly embrac- ,
ed each other. Final'y the brave |
young cadet, in his camotii ‘ace
utilities, leaned over and {{/-
tionately kissed the young dam

this guy ever ends up in a cor
situation, rest assured he wili

should remain behind closed doors. |
The result is disgusting, sloppy, wet :

students (male and female). which '
are not only tasteless, but also offen- '
sive to bystanders. ’

which can be seen on campus are’
somewhat humorous, but also can be,

“hello” is an effective enough means '
even to:
members of the opposite sex. On oc- ,

while, a friendly hug may be accept- '
able, but it should try to be liniited. ,
Instead, it seems that many students ,

Guys and gals, lacking any type of '
self-control, greet each other with :
powerful hugs, which lead to french ,

reaches the point 6f being softly por- '
nographic. These actions exemplify ‘
not only a lack of character, but also ,
a great lack of etiquette. One,

verted individuals ‘are ignorant to ‘
that fact that they are being very :
disrespectful to other students. ,

can be seen on campus during the '
academic week. One couple insists on '
walking to class arm-in-arm, with ,

pocket. Do they have to hold each '
other up? Is it a quarter, or a dime, '
or something else he is looking fe: in '
her pocket? I*know pitiful rednecks ‘
who have more class than this. Dur- ,
ing a politics movie, a coed, who ,
could pass for a grown man, leaned ,
over and kissed another student,

‘student and his girlfriend walked ’

te eaaBhmncseni - Se

a

oe Resco

 

As exams loom around the corner,
students, especially those in the
freshman class, should be aware of
the Honor System now more than
ever. Perhaps at no other time dur-
ing the year is it more apparent than
during exams. The freedom of stu-
dents to make their own exam
schedule and to take exams without a
proctor present is a previledge that
few universities provide.

The Honor System states that W&L
students will behave honorably, and
will specifically not lie, cheat, or

steal. The Class of 1990, taking exams
for the first time at W&L, have been
repeatedly told that the Honor
System is not something to be afraid
of. It is not something to fear, but
they should be aware of it.

From 2 p.m. December 13 through
5 p.m. December 19, exams are
“hot.” Students are not allowed to
discuss any aspect of the exams with
any other student. This practice
prevents students from learning
what is on an exam and gaining an
unfair advantage. Talking about a

“hot” test could be considered
cheating and may be investigated as
a possible honor violation.

If the student body at W&L
becomes complacent about the
Honor System, the system is in
danger of becoming extinct.
Although the exam period provides
an excellent example of how the
system works, the ideals of Robert E.
Lee should stay in student’s minds
throughout the year.

—The editors

bably have his face shot off. T?:
are just a few isolated examples. ,

I doubt open displays of affecti. .
on campus were a problem hefore
coeducation. Meanwhile, somethi
must be done to terminate these ¢:.-
tivities as soon as possible. A foot.
properly placed in someones r
would be a great start. These pec °
must realize that public affectio:.
tasteless, disrespectful, and insult
to those that have to witness tl
shows. In conclusion, a little thou
from Nicolas Chamlet: ‘He who °....
no character is not a man; he (or

 

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

she) is a thing.”

Alum praises Phi, chides ‘arm chair editors’

To the Editors:

As a somewhat distant graduate of Washington
and Lee, I usually note items that I see in the Phi
with some interest, but am not compelled to res-
pond. However, in the few issues of the paper
that I have seen this year, I have noted a very
disturbing trend which I feel deserves some com-
ment. This has to do with the large amount of
criticism which has been focused on the Ring-
tum Phi itself.

I have a hard time believing, as Mr. Root
asserts, that ‘‘Nobody”’ likes the Phi. I am sure
that students are still eager to thumb through
their copy on Thursday night at the dining hall,
or to read a copy somewhere on campus. To
make a general assertion that the whole student
body, or even a large part of it, does not like the
Phi seems to be irresponsible — if not completely
ridiculous.

My suggestion to these arm chair editors who
have been assaulting the paper this year would
be to keep a few basic things in mind: 1) The peo-
ple who put out the Phi are students like you, who
give a great deal of time and effort to produce a
product. 2) The paper seems willing to allow any
student to come forward and make a contribu-
tion — if they feel they can do a better job. 3)
They don’t make the news, they report it. If
someone or some institution does something to
embarass themself, the Phi should not lose sleep
over reporting it. And 4) Human beings are not
perfect.

I think the staff can be proud of the papers that
have come out this year, and I wish them the best
of luck. Their product is far superior to other col-
legiate newspapers that I have seen. I’m tired of
seeing this criticism. Do the editors really need a
freshman to tell them the “fraternities do not
represent Nazism, Fascism, or the Ku Klux

Klan’’?! C’mon! Put up or shut up, it’s as simple

as that. Either make a personal effort to change
and improve the paper, or be quiet about it.

Sincerely,

S. Trent Palmer, II ’81

Tappahanock, Virginia

Classes say Tucker is too hot
To the editors:

It’s 38 degrees outside but you could have fool-
ed us! We just came out of the hottest classroom
on campus, and would like to know when the de-
signers or architects who built Tucker Hall are
going to come back and fix that disaster. The
classroom that holds all the introductory psy-
chology classes has the poorest ventilation
system built by man - and there’s no way even
the most interested students can stay awake ina
class that’s 80 degrees on a winter day. Won't
someone please find a way to put a window in
that place before we all die of heat stroke?

Members of psych 111, 112, 113

Burke responds to Lexicon

To the Editors:

In your November 20th edition of the Ring-tum
Phi you asked the readers a very bold question
—‘What is wrong with the Ring-tum Phi?” I
would like to take this time to comment on one of
the major problems with the paper, the column
entitled “Lexicon.”

The opening paragraph in the latest colum:
stated that my first letter, which appeared in the
Phi on October 30,” proved the columnist’s point
better than the columnist ever could’. Mr.
Pockrass, if you truly believe this, at least it
makes one of you.

As far as my letter being a “‘personal attack”
Mr. Pockrass, if you can’t take the heat get out of
the kitchen. Surely a person who comes to the
conclusion that a student run campus at W&L is
not working could not expect to receive an ova-
tion from adoring fans. Mr. Pockrass, let me
assure you that writing on such contraversial
issues will generate some criticism, and if you
feel personally slighted with every letter, may I
suggest that you become the food or entertain-
ment editor to relieve some of the pressure.

Nevertheless Mr. Pockrass I must commer.
you on your answer to my question — “How
would you have handled the situation?” Indeed
once your fraternity house holds a party like the
one you described, it will serve as the model for
all of us, congratulations.

Mr. Pockrass, instead of trashing the student
run campus at W&L, making this university ju: t
like every other one, why not occasionally com
ment on what the system does right, as well as
suggesting how alterations within the estab-
lished framework might make this a better
place. Do not always be willing to throw away all
that we have accomplished simply because the
number of failures with the student run campus
continues to mount. That fact is inevitable It is
not the student run campus at W&L that needs to

change, but the hasty critique of Students who , |
;

see just the bad that needs to change.

If the columnist and the other writers
understand this, the ills of the Phi ae
decrease.

Paul A. Burke ’88

 

 

 

!

 

4

‘

ves
OPINION/NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, December 4, 1986

 

 

Coeds are not liberal

 

MY VIEW
By Paul J. Smith

When Washington and Lee chose to
admit women in the Summer of '84,
many professors and students hailed
the decision as the beginning of the
end of conservatism’s grip on the
campus. ‘‘Alas’’, one professor ex-
claimed to me, ‘‘Washington and Lee
will enjoy a rise in academic and
political liberalism’’. He reasoned,
as many people did, that women,
traditionally the more liberal, social-
ly conscious of the sexes, would
revolutionize this campus, culti-
vating a new academic environment,
manifested by creativity, open
mindedness, idealism, and of course
liberalism.

Having returned from a Junior
year abroad, I have concluded based
on my observations that the W&L
woman, contrary to many’s expecta-
tions, is just as conservative, if not
more conservative than her male
counterpart.

Characterized by a burning desire

 

, to succeed, she seems locked within
herself, her motivation for work fuel-

, €d not so much by a passion to learn
"as by her ambitions to compete
” alongside her male counterpart. She

, is insecure. Thus, she clings to con-

servatism, just as her male counter-
part; her role is not to innovate,
change, or pioneer so much as it is to
prove herself in a man’s world, to
compete, to triumph.

In her new role, the W&L woman
forfeits her natural idealism, her

’ tions-social,

liberalism, her naturally endowed
sense of altruism and selflessness.
Instead of waking this campus to the
realities around it and saving it from
the decay of complacency and con-
servatism, she only confirms it,
enhanccs it, solidifies it. But I cannot
blame the new W&L woman. She has,
after all, reacted naturally. She has
learned what the W&L man has
known all along — conservatism and
complacency let one achieve his or
her own personal goals without in-
terference from impending reality.
She has quite naturally succumbed to
its compelling grip, its enticing
rewards. Its only demand — ‘‘Don’t
rock the boat. Blindly support the
status quo, and I will reward you.”’

And how it rewards! achievement,
satisfied ego, status, security, and
after graduation, material wealth. It
teaches one to be cold, how to be in-
different: to overlook the poverty
beyond the gate, to ignore the om-
nipresence of injustice. Regardless
of the impending issues of today — in-
creasing liklihood of nuclear conflict,
terrorism, apartheid, an incompe-
tent leader of the Free World, a
planet Earth, ecologically ruined,
unable to support its human popula-
tion — he or she doesn’t flinch.

The typical W&L student thrives,
myopically, in a world of parties,
BMW's, country clubs, G&T,s, Fox-
field, Fancy Dress Balls, Duckheads.
Life is one big bow] of cherries. And
understandably within this environ-
ment, the greater issues of our day
never get debated. the bigger ques-
political, moral-never
get asked. The result is a student
body afraid to rock the boat, afraid to

question the system, afraid to get in-
volved.

The price of this reticence is high;
unreasonable annual increases in tui-
tion; hideous price-fixing schemes by
our own bookstore at which we are
obliged to buy textbooks; immoral
decisions by our Board of Trustees,
such as its resolve not to disinvest in
companies conducting business in

, South Africa (this one will be difficult

to reconcile morally). Even more
significant is the impact of this at-
titude on our society, on our nation —
political and societal apathy; disin-
interest in the national and interna-
tional situation; general aloofness
from reality.

Complacency and Conservatism
will not save today’s precarious,
crisis-ridden world, tetering on the
brink of disaster. Old ways and old
solutions simply will not work. Hope
lies in new, unprecedented, revolu-
tionary ideas — ideas promulgated
by selfless, altruistic leaders groom-
ed in an academic environment of
enlightenment.

In 1984, we looked unjustifiably to
women to bring about such an en-
vironment — to dispell complacency
and save Washington and Lee from
the dregs of conservatism.

But in 1986 we realized that this ex-
pectation was unreasonable, that if
there is going to be change, it must
come from within — not from one
part of the student body, but from all.
Reality is waiting, knocking patient-
ly at our door. Are we going to let it
in?

The Phi needs confidence

 

MY VIEW

" By John Prescott Rowe

 

Let me say first that I’m not a crank

' out to tear down the Ring-Tum Phi.

This campus would be lost without a
student newspaper. On the Novem-
qber 20th editorial page, however,
“there were some issues concerning
stylistic points that caused problems
for me, and they make the Phi look
vad wi y.
By the editorial entitled ““Misbehav-
”’ there is a sentence which ob-
le escaped thorough _ proof-
wile eading. “While it is a breech of

“‘segulations,” the sentence stated,

he

.

‘students sneaking cups of coffee
and candy bars into the library
seems more justifiable than throwing
«4 keg party.” The word “breech” is
“ defined by the Pocket Oxford Dic-
tionary as the ‘‘back part of a gun or
.Tifle or rifle barrel.” The homonym

n oes the editorial’s context required

, was “breach,” meaning an infrac-

tion of a rule.

On the surface, this error appears
as a spelling typo, but to me it is slop-
py! Come on, y’all, I know there’s a
dictionary in the Phi office for clari-
fying this kind of thing. But since the
checking went undone, the result is a
glaring error in what some perceive
as the most respected, refined por-
iion of the paper: the editorial page.
And you wonder why so many people
have criticized errors in the Phi this
year when the staff cannot even iron

the eg.out of its editorials?
But ithé, problem is deeper than
mere gram or spelling. I noticed

an absence of confidence and back-
bone on the editorial page in this
issue. In the sentence above from
‘‘Misbehavin’,’’ why did the
writer(s) need to waffle on the issue
of bringing refreshments into the
library? I thought the point of the
editorial was to denounce improper
behavior, not to reference a double-
standard about food in the library.

In the third paragraph of the
editorial, the writer(s) concluded
that these students could have par-
tied somewhere else besides the

library. Ho Hum. My, what a revela-
tion! Were the editors afraid of tak-
ing a firm position against the party-
ing academics, perhaps for fear of
reprisals? I thought that an editorial
was intended to take a position on an
issue and support that stance. Ap-
parently, the Phi thinks an editorial
ought to be a glorified recollection of
the facts coupled with some mild
finger-wagging.

As an informed member of the
university community, I would like to
see an editorial page have the conyic-
tion to make statements and have a
staff to support these statements. I
think the Phi has become overly con-
ciliatory to outside influence on mat-
ters that it alone should decide. Most
great newspapers have a strong
editorial vein, and that vein earns
them the respect that makes them an
established part of their community.

This article may be tedious, but it
really is written more out of concern
than out of criticism.,I hope some of
these suggestions take hold, and I
look forward to a strong Phi for the
rest of the year.

“DC Internships available

 

'STAFF REPORTS

 

i Any student interested in working
in Washington D.C. should take note.
W&L is offering a new six credit
“Washington semester” program
during the spring of 1987. Students
must hurry, however, because the
deadline for application is January
9th.

The program is being directed by

’ Dr. William F. Connelly, Assistant

Professor of Politics. A recent addi-
tion to the Washington and Lee facul-
ty, Connelly is familar with Capital
Hill. He worked as a congressional

   

| eS a SE OE RITTER EEN OS
Interviews by
SYDNEY MARTHINSON

 

fellow during the 1985-86 year.

Connelly describes the Washington
Semester as an ‘extraordinary op-
portunity for students.’’ During the
spring term, approximately ten
students will live and work in
Washington D.C. Students will work
four and one half days in an assigned
congressional office. Students will
serve in both democratic and
republican offices. Wednesday morn-
ings will be devoted to a class on Con-
gress, representative government
and the legislative process led by
Connelly which will feature outside
speakers.

The goals of the program are to
enlarge ‘‘the student’s understanding
of national politics and governance.”
Prerequisites for the six credit
course are that the applicant must be
a junior or senior and taken Politics
102. Candidates will be choosen by
the Department of Politics and judg-
ed on the following criteria: acade-
mic achievement, evidence of in-
terest, interviews, and _ personal
qualifications essential to successful
participation. Applications for the
program are available in the Direc-
tor’s office, Commerce school (Room
108). The completed application must
be in by January 9th.

dd

pres

 

 

 

Artwork

Washington and Lee University artist-in-residence I-
demonstrates painting
techniques to (left to right) Christopher Reavis, a W&L

Hsiung Ju (second from left),

senior, Larry M. Stene, associate professor of art at

Pierson named secretary

 

 

By SEAN BUGG
Editor
At the Executive Committee

meeting Monday night, the EC pass-
ed a motion to accept the steering
committee of the 1988 Mock Demo-
cratic Convention’s nomination of
Valerie Pierson as Secretary of the
Mock Convention. The position had
been left vacant after the previous
secretary, Russ Shearer, left the
position to become Head of Political
Research.

As secretary, Pierson is on the Ex-
ecutive Committee of the Mock Con-
vention. The Executive Committee of

the student body appoints the
members of the Mock Convention
EC, known as the steering commit-
tee.

Pierson, who is a dormitory
counselor, a member of the women’s
tennis team and a member of student
recruitment, considers it an honor to
be the first woman appointed to the
committee.

“The women of W&L are trying to
get involved in all aspects of the
University,’ Pierson said. “It’s
always encouraging to see that you
(women) are making progress.”

George Gist, a member of the
steering committee, told the EC that
Pierson was chosen from a group of

“til . ee
cE om

By W. Patrick Hinely /W&!

W&L, and Dorothy Blackwell. Ju and Stene will be ex-
hibiting their recent work along with the work of their
students in duPont Gallery Dec. 2-17.

about 11 candidates.

Gist is one of three co-chairmen 0
the Mock Convention appointed las!
spring. The other co-chairmen ar‘
John Gammage and Lester Coe. Als:
appointed in the spring was treasurer
J.J. Buquet.

Others appointed to positions with
the Mock Convention include: Mike
Hassinger, administrative assistan!
Tim Bolling, media chairman; Fr
Lake, media vice-chairman; Mai
Gordon, speakers chairman; Josep!
Topinka, speakers vice-chairman
and Jim Metcalfe, Brad Watkins and
Brad Preston, finance chairmen
and Jim Metcalfe, finance vice
chairman.

if?

Oratorio premieres Tuesday

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

Behold the days will come
When the ruler of eternity shining with
full joy will pardon man’s sins
He will grow luminous

So begins ‘“‘A Christmas Oratorio:
The Sibylline Oracles,”’ a 14-part pre-
Christmas oratorio being written by
W&L professor of music Robert
Stewart. The first chorus from the
work will have its world premiere on
December 9 in Lee Chapel by the
Glee Club and the University Chorus.

Entitled ‘Behold the Days Will
Come,”’ the chorus, originally scored
with full orchestra, has been reduced
to organ, synthesizer, 3 flutes, and a
6-piece percussion ensemble for the
Tuesday night performance.

The oratorio is based on the 14
books of the Sibylline Oracles, books
predicting the coming of Christ.

According to Stewart, Orlando di
Lasso, a famous Renaissance com-
poser of the 16th century, is probably
the only other composer to have used

the text of the oracies as the subject
for a musical work, having composed
from it his choral work ‘‘Prophetiae
Sibyllarum.”’

Stewart’s interest in the work was
stimulated by several subjects:
‘Lasso’s ‘musical interpretation
caught his initial attention, but the
direct style and subject matter of the
Sibylline Oracles also interested him
as well.

“The style of this text is highly un-
poetic, perhaps, but it captures the
style of the oracles as they were
originally written in Greek. In addi-
tion, it’s subject is a foretelling of
Christ, rather than a description of
Jesus’ birth or death, as many ora-
torios depict.”’

In this difference alone, the
Stewart piece is an interesting con-
trast to Handel’s Messiah, an
oratorio written about the birth,
death, and resurrection of Christ,
which will be performed after the
Stewart composition. But even more
interesting is the contrast of musical
style and tradition in next Tuesday
evening’s program. Handel, a baro-

que composer, writes in a style we
are generally familiar with, with th:
organ as the only accompaniment to
the chorus.

Stewart, on the other hand, is a 20th
century composer whose style most
people are unfamiliar with. It is a dif
ferent style of music for people to
understand — many come awa;
hating it for what they interpret is a
lack of form or tonality.

The emphasis of the piece ‘is on
vocal line — it is a chorus that
technically could stand alone,
without instrumental support. Many
singers in the Glee Club and Univer
sity Chorus have found the piece dif-
ficult to sing, due to the difficulty of
these musical lines, plus the fact that
the instrumental parts rarely help
the singers by doubling their vocal
parts.

“It really is pretty interesting,’
said Meg Gilkeson, a freshman
soprano in the University Chorus. ‘!
knew it was going to be different, but
once I got used to singing it, I tried to
understand what Mr. Stewart was
trying to do musically.”’

Two debators awarded a trophy

 

STAFF REPORT

 

Two members of the Washington
and Lee debate team were awarded a
trophy at the Randolph-Macon Col-
lege debate tournament recently,
while two others received honorable
mention.

 

TALKBACK

Freshmen Jennifer Spreng of
Owensboro, KY., and Patsy Sciutto
of New York were awarded a quar-
terfinalist trophy in the novice divi-
sion of the competition.

Damon Fensterman, a freshman
from Lynchburg, Va., and Robert
Owen, a junior from Gainesville, Va.,
were given honorable mention at the

What do you think of the campus switching over to Pepsi?

 

 

 

 

t David Emrich,
Westchester, Pa.

 

 

Sophomore,

“T think it’s kind of cheesy that
people are so upset about the
change. I worked for Pepsi all
summer long and I saw nothing

wrong with it.”

Valerie Pierson,
Greensboro, N.C.

sophomore,

“Tt’s not that big of a deal, but
personally, I’d rather have Coke.”’

Ga.

of Coke
Thing,
same

tournament in the junior varsity divi
sion.

The W&L debate team will travel
to George Mason University in earl
January for its next debate tourna
ment.

Halford R. Ryan, professor of
public speaking at W&L, is coach of
the debate team.

De
Photographs by
HANK MAYER

 

 

Todd Barton, junior,

“Pepsi's an artificial imitation
and without the Real
the co-op’s just not the

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dunwoody, Dallas

Nashville,
‘Worse things have happened.”

Hagewood,

freshman,
Tenn,

David Grove, sophomore, Oakton,
Va.

“I want Coke. Something as
important as this —
should have been consulted first

 

the students

 
 

DH--¢
rade

Rina-tum Phi, December 4, 1986

 

i ‘tars donated

BEF
-

SNe Se

 

ne University

Creek, at Gettysburg and in the Val-
ley of Virginia.
After the Civil War, Turner said,

 

 
  
  

 

   
 

Hardware, Paint & Related items

 

 

 

 

   

 

University ;
than 300 Pettit embarked on a legal career E. Nelson Street Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:60
1. William that eventually took him to the 463-2186 Sun. 1-5
so dilaes. Gelailiind presidency of the Virginia Bar. Pettit {
tent tae also served as a delegate to the

iven to the univer-

yb srandson
he vhich are housed in the
lections section of the
will be edited by
r, professor emeri-

ee 1910 law class at Washington and Give a hoot.
eee Lee
m at later ; ’
si dos Turner retired from the faculty of Don t pollute. 136 on ane
tes ne Washington and Lee in 1982. He is a . gs
tten from 1856 to fn]
1905. \ by Pettit re his family 1937 graduate of the University of Forest Service, U.S.D.A.

said the letters
ng Pettit’s service in the
vil W re of special interest to

War enthusiasts.

and friend Nuorner

ritter il

Virginia Constitution Convention of
1901. Turner said Pettit’s ties to
Washington and Lee are through two
relatives — Benjamin Ancel, an 1895
graduate who later served as a mis-
sionary to China, and Nathaniel
Claybrooke Harris, a member of the

Richmond. He received his master’s
degree from the University of North
Carolina and a doctorate from the
University of Minnesota.

Tuned engines .. . less air pollution.

PEK EK REC EK NK NEC I NEC RE EEC IC NE

 

 

     
   
 

 

George’s Hairstylist

directly behind Leggett’s

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ra in Fluvanna In addition to publishing several
ithe service as books, Turner has served as histor- Pri t C 4 4 e i lin LAST
the rank of col- ian, on" and geneologist for the » va e O se
f the Civil War. Rockbridge Historical Society and
net | Pettit’s letters from that has edited and published the letters scetasaaabairchuenecne C H A N C E !
time provide details of the battles of a large number of Civil War-era
round Richmond, at Antietam Rockbridge County residents. i
“ak ih Reagan had called to thank g ©>-'eSS Management Depression Collector's Item
C A i L Mollenhoff for his support, and also " Relationships Anxiety
to comment on another section of his 0 i
a letter. Mollenhoff said that in his let- ‘ Work overload Loneliness
i from page 1 ter he had “‘also mentioned that I had Call
a ee been a persistant critic of his ad- 8 Call for information
lin and of tne I-  ministrati def THE BEGINNING g
cn'shaingdi hestuatontnte poles neemerr=wenes!  Lorae L, McDonald, L.C.S.W. eeeeare
e of ‘hostile press questioning.”’
Mollenhoff \ oa quick to add that — told prewesio bt there OF AN ERROR! to preorder.
the letter ‘didn’t mean I agreed” 4S good news a ut that subject: a 463-4927 or 348-5020
with his policy. He said he felt the ship had just been completed ahead

 

 

of schedule and under budget.

 

decision was ‘reasonable.’’ Mol- ; :
lenhoff told Reagan that as long as Reagan hoped that this was a sign of
no attempt at a cover-up or improvement in that area. TRAVEL FIELD POSITION
on, then the whole incident The conversation only lasted five WMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE Best wishes

ually fade away. or six minutes, said Mollenhoff. Good commission, valuable work experience,
travel, and other benefits. Call Bill Ryan (Toll
Free) 1-800-433-7747.

For a complete information mailer

 

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Wishes You A
Safe and Happy
Holiday

apy yon te eyyreant enough to mastet
ae and Fortran.

on your exams

 

 

STUDY
FOR $19.86
FLAT!

We guarantee you peace
and quiet while you study
for exams! Only $19.86 plus
tax buys you a room for the
night at the Best Western,
plus coffee to keep you
awake. Offer is good
December 10th through
20th, 1986, advance reser-
vations and a valid college
ID are required. Call us at
463-2143 for reservations or
information.

 

from the staff of

The Ring-tum Phi 21 W. Washington

463-7174

 

 

 

 

SKI JACKSON HOLE 4

Feb. 13- 19 ‘
Meeting tonight - Payne Hall -7 p.m.

6 nights slopeside condo
5 day lift ticket

 

 

 

 

TLL aaa AAR Cowboys to party with
saoanansnanalile Pahl 4,100 ft. vertical drop
CR AFTS PLUS, INC. oar i (largest am the U.S.) ‘
Games, Hobbies, Craft Supplies 468 o148 Cia ae we

- all Brad Thompson

 

Open Mon.-Sat., 10-5
| Main St., Lexington

 

 

463-3355

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

Advent Services and Programs
LEXINGTON PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH

Dec.5— 8p.m.
Dec.7— 9:45a.m.

 
 

      

Messiah Sing-a-long, Sanctuary

Special Christmas Sunday School
Program, Dunlap Auditorium - adult hand-
bell choir

Church Service - ‘‘With Justice for All”
Ecumenical College Student Service and
Reception - nine lessons and carols -

R.E. Lee Episcopal Church

Church Service - ‘‘Do You See What I See”’
Joy Gift Luncheon (college students
especially invited as guests of the church)

DEA NO AM 3145895 PHONE (703)463-23239
ve fede) at Law protabels transtor al this diug tu any person other than patent for whee

et OLD MAIN STREET
Christmas Craft Show

Handmade works by local artisans:
jewelry, knitwear, leather, quilting,
dried flowers and more.

E PRESCRIPTION DELIVERY, FREE GIFT WRAP

BILLS SENT HOME
WE HONOR COLONADE CARD

| SPRINGBREAK ‘87

11:00a.m.
5:30 p.m.

Dec. 14— 11:00 a.m.
12:00 noon

 

 

 

 

i Old Main St. Mall - Main St. & Henry St. Dec. 21 — 11:00a.m. Nine lessons and carols (worship through
3RUARY SEMESTER BREAK Friday & Saturday, Dec. 5-6 ee cas eadakewe)

Dec. 24— 7:30p.m. Christmas Eve Candelight Service

10-5 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

mopus Rep. Organize Sailing Charters
et, Lauderdale to Bahamas
Commission & Free Cruise

Call Captain Williams
23rd Terrace, Ft. Lauderdale 33312
(305) 583-0202 Anytime

 

   

  
   
   
   
 
     
   
     
        

< : FS GR SOS IN Ry SPS TON Ie GP OPS SI GIS

 

 
   

. 4 all through the store |
¥ 5 \ Twas The Night Before Christmas °
8 iO K Through The City Streets Not A Person Was Stirring . ; We have candy and jewelry and
2 Not Even A City Alley Cat Shoes, Clothing, Accessories isan allaniak
e So Dark; That's Why You Can Not See! Shop For Christmas 8 : &
:y Now And Shop By Day, Our list could go on.
You May See!! ‘
eard Him Exclaim As He And we ll gift wrap
ye Out Of Sight, Happy Christmas To All °

\nd Some Night... It Might Be Bright! and mail free :
' for you anywhere At Hodge Podge there’ll be presents
ie White A, in the U.S. for everyone.
” AW Le . ou if over $10.00 Come by and see
7 ANN ‘t nay Ail’ RZ 7 (i)

HODGE PODGE

116 N. Main St.
Monday through Saturday 10-5 p.m.

Lexington Pappagallo
23 N. Main St.

   

mn ran) ( Calf
ghting °

ithMain Street R.E. Lee Hotel Building 463- 3.9338,

se ee ee ee ee ee

Mon. - Sat. (10-5:30) Sunday (1-4)

 

Pe OS OL Se ee en en us E

 

 

Saeed Win sheets Wes ete eihets
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, December 4, 1986

 

Cold shooting hurts Generals
as Tigers coast to victory

 

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

In less than spectacular fashion,
the Washington and Lee basketball
team opened up its Old Dominion
Athletic Conference schedule with an
87-77 loss to the Hampden-Sydney
Tigers this past Tuesday night at the
Warner Center.

“‘We got our butts whipped,”’ said
head coach Verne Canfield. “I am
totally disappointed with our play,
and you can underline totally.”

The Generals came out strong in
the first half, picking apart the
Tiger’s man-to-man defense with
some backdoor cuts and solid team
play. Senior forward Jefferson Har-
ralson, who led all scorers with 22
points, and junior forward Gary
Schott made some key layups as the
Generals built an eight point advan-
tage with eleven minutes remaining ,
in the first half. It was at this point in
the contest that head coach Tony
Shaver of the Tigers decided to make
some changes.

Pulling back into a 2-3 zone
defense, the Tigers took away W&L’s
inside game and forced to Generals
to shoot from the outside. Needless to
say, the Generals were unable to con-
vert on their perimeter jump shots
and subsequently, W&L’s lead
evaporated.

At halftime, the Tigers held a four
point advantage, 43-39, and the
statistics showed an even greater

by Mike Shady

Shades on sports

Assistant Sports Editor

edge. The Tigers shot 19 free throws,
making 16 of them, while the
Generals never did manage to get to
the free throw line. W&L had com-
mitted 15 personal fouls and had
three players, senior forward Rob
Spencer, junior center Harmon
Harden and Schott, on the bench in
foul trouble.

The poor outside shooting con-
tinued to plague the Generals in the
second half. Junior guard Steve Han-
cock, the General’s second leading
scorer last year, had a particulary
vold shooting night going 3 for 16
from the field. W&L shot just 40% for
the game, compared with 57% for
Hampden-Sydney.

Some spirited play from Spencer
and Harralson kept the Generals
within striking distance, but Spencer
collected his fifth personal with just
over ten minutes remaining in the
ball game and was lost for the rest of
the evening. W&L managed to tie the
ball game on several occasions and
were definitely in the game with
plenty of time showing on the clock.
Again, however, the Generals ran in-
to some problems.

“There was a total lack of maturi-
ty, poise and leadership,” said Can-
field. ‘Some seniors didn’t play very
good basketball.”

The lack of poise Canfield was
referring to came at the six minute
mark of the second half. Some
critical turnovers had allowed the
Tigers to take a comfortable nine

 

 

 

 

 

 

point lead. The Generals, however,
played like there was two minutes re-
maining instead of six and seemed to
panic. The offense became hurried
and the resulting turnovers and poor
shot selection provided the Tigers an
opportunity to pad their lead to thir-
teen points.

Sophomore guard Ralph Baker,
who led the Tigers with 18 points,
tossed in three important shots and
freshman guard Jim Molster scored
seven of his thirteen points from the
free throw line as Hampden-Sydney
cruised down the stretch to the ten
point victory.

“We didn’t play well at anything
tonight,’ said Canfield. ‘‘I’ll tell you,
we are not going to play that poorly
again.”

The General’s record now stands at
1-2, 0-1 in the ODAC, after an im-
pressive showing in the W&L Tip-Off
Tournament on Nov. 21-22. W&L
finished in second place, losing to
Ithaca in overtime, 84-82. The
Generals gained the berth in the
finals after blowing away Johns
Hopkins in the opener, 67-37.

The Generals led Ithaca through-
out most of the game until the
Bombers tied it up with 1:52 left in
regulation. Harralson erased a three-
point deficit in OT with a three-point
shot, but Kermit Moyer buried the
game winner from the baseline with
just five seconds left.

“Ithaca is one of the best teams in
the East and if it were not for some
untimely fouls down the stretch, we

 

 

THE LINE forms here

With four minutes remaining and the University of Las Vegas trail-

 

ing Western Kentucky by five points, Fred ‘‘In the’’ Banks took the
outlet pass and started dribbling swiftly upcourt. Crossing the
halfcourt line, Banks’ confidence could be seen all the way from the
nosebleed seats in the upper regions of the arena. You see, Banks was
approaching THE LINE and the word ‘‘pass’’ had suddenly lost its
way from his vocabulary. Cool as a cucumber. Freddie pulled up at
the top of the key and let it fly. Count it! Nothing but the bottom of the
net. And for THREE POINTS no less. ,

Oh, those crazy guys on the NCAA Rules Committee have really
thrown a curve into that wonderful game of college basketball. From
19’9” and beyond, the little guys have risen from the land of the assist
and 0.3 rebounds a game, and have become - an offensive weapon (I
shudder at the thought).

Okay, the shot is too short. The pros heave it from 23’9’’ and the
shooting percentage (28%) speaks for itself. But 20 feet? I can make
two out of five from that distance and the people who I’ve played with
compare me to a young Jim Brickowski. But the whole idea behind the
new rule was to provide the guards throughout the country a chance to
become more important than the seven-foot lug who can dunk on his
tippy-toes.

Case in point. My main man, Jesse “The Rev” Jackson of the
University of Alaska-Anchorage measures about 5’10’ according to
the program (yeah, right - try maybe 5’8”). Yet ‘The Rev” lit up the
scoreboard in front of the hometown folks in the season opener to the
tune of 37 points. That’s right, you guessed it. THIRTY-THREE of
those points came on three-point field goals (that’s a total of eleven for
you math majors). And the thing was, it was absolutely great. Prac-
tically every player over 6’5’’ can slam, but how many of those players
can bomb away from 21 feet with two players in their face and still hit
nothing but cords?

Without the three-pointer, UNLV and Western Kentucky is just
another ordinary basketball game. However, with THE LINE, I ac-
tually watched the whole game — and even enjoyed it (UNLV came
back from 19 points down to win by one point in double overtime when
Banks hit for three with six seconds left).

The most important facet of the sport of basketball is the art of
shooting. Now, those who shoot the ball the best will finally be reward-
ed for it. And who knows? Maybe it might even be exciting.

Reggie “The Filler” Miller of UCLA boasts that the shot is just ‘‘a
layup” for him. That'’s the kind of confidence only a mother or a true
basketball fan could love. Gentlemen, the guns are fully loaded. Fire
when ready.

NOTES: Are my ears deceiving me? Was that applause I heard the
other day for John McEnroe? Eat it up while you can Mac, because I
have a feeling these fans just want to see you become great again so
they can enjoy your defeats even more... Adios SMU. You were a great
football team (I don’t know whether or not to label them ‘“‘college”’ or
“‘pro’’). And to think this program once felt they were robbed of a na-
tional championship a few years back... While on the subject, some
football predictions to send you on your merry way. Fiesta Bowl -
Penn State 22, Miami 17; Rose Bowl - Who cares?Cotton Bowl - Who
cares? I think you get the idea.

 

SERVIGTAR.

23S. Main Lexington, Va. 24450
Lexington Hardware
463-2242

 

 

 

 

 

QUIET

Exam time is no time to be
surrounded by noisy
roommates and_  distrac-
tions. For only $19.86 plus
tax, one or two people may
study in peace and quiet at
the Comfort Inn! We'll keep
the coffee coming. . . even
remove the TV if you’d like,
and you can take a dip in the
indoor pool during breaks.
Advance reservations anda
college ID are required. Call
us for reservations or infor-
mation at 463-7311.

 

Lexington
463-7311

 

MERRY LEXIN tN

HOME OF TRVE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT

 

Enjoy the holiday season in Lexington. the feahve activihes,
decorations, and toads during December in the historic Downtown
provide 3 unique atmosphere for chopang Youre sure to find
special gift for family and frends. Come Jan ue
for 3 Cup of holiday cheer at ine daily stove

open houses

 

 

 

 

Jefferson Harralson looks for an open shot.

may have won the game,”’ said Can-
field.

Harralson averaged 27.5 points and
9.5 rebounds over the weekend earn-
ing him all-tournament honors along
with teammate Hancock, who
averaged 18 points per game.

 

 

 

 

John Packett

HOOK SHOTS: Sophomore for-
ward Lee Brading played in his first
game of the season against H-S after
being sidelined due to a case of
pneumonia. The pre-season pro-
jected starter scored six points com-
ing off the bench before fouling out of

By Perry 8. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

the ball game... The Generals at-
tempted 16 three-point field goals,
connecting on six of them for a 38%
shooting accuracy. Harralson and
sophomore guard Framp Harper led
the bomb squad as both combined for
12 of the 16 shots...

Football player Packett
named an all-American

ee

Staff Reporter

 

The American Football Coaches
Association has named Washington
and Lee junior John Packett to the
1986 Kodak All-American team.

Packett is a 6-5, 275-pound offen-
sive tackle from Salem, Virginia. His
selection indicates that he is one of
the best offensive linemen in the Col-
lege Division, an AFCA classification
which includes all NCAA Division III
and NAIA Division II colleges and
universities.

W&L head football coach Gary
Fallon called Packett.‘‘an outstand-
ing football player, who really work-
ed hard to win this prestigious
award.”

The fact that Packett was able to
achieve all-America status as a

junior makes the award even more
impressive. ‘“‘He’s one of the bright
spots coming back next year,” said
Fallon. The Generals’ head coach
predicted that Packett ‘‘will have a
super year”’ as a senior. Packett will
be a tri-captain on next year’s team.

Last month, Packett was named to
the Old Dominion all-Conference
team, along with W&L receiver Ran-
dy Brown. This was Packett’s second
year on the all-Conference squad.

Packett is the third W&L football
player to reach all-America status
during Fallon’s nine years with the
university. According to Fallon, ‘If
(Packett) has a good senior year,
there’s a good possibility’ that he
will become the first player in the
history of Washington and Lee foot-
ball to repeat as an all-American
selection.

Sweet Briar Social Commitee

features

Steve and Tim Ryall

Thursday, December 4th

8:30 to 11:30

Coffeehouse at the Bistro
FREE! !

I.D. Required

(ARE YE NY YS AY YS TS YS YR TN TS YR AE A SE YN SS I,

Aluin-Benniz

Do your Christmas shopping at Alvin-Dennis
and avoid the big city crowds.

 

 

 

SPECIAL OF THE WEEK

SUITS - 20% off

 

 

 

é

VISA
IEE TAS RBA A SE A AN

FREE GIFT WRAPPING

Choice

MAKE YOUR CHRISTiv:

SHOPPING EASY!

We have a great gift & card selection:

W&L Knife -

 

M.C.

DRS ES SP ET DTN TP

 

Featuring The

Stainless steel with logo-made exclusively

for us by Buck.

We wrap & ship, all major credit cards accepted.

 

HUNTER@HUNTRESS

18 E. Nelson St., Lexington

 
 

 

 

EBACK PAGE

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, December 4, 1986

 

Joffrey Il Dancers

Ballet at Lex High

 

STAFF REPORTS

 

Just in time for Christmas, The
Rockbridge Concert Theatre Series
presents the Joffrey II Dancers of the
Joffrey Ballet in a three-act ballet en-
titled “Tales From Hans Christian
Andersen,’’ December 7, 3 p.m., at
Lexington High School.

The ballet, which brings to the
stage two of Andersen’s best loved
fairy tales, ‘“The Little Mermaid”
and ‘‘The Nightingale,”’ was created
and choreographed by Donald
Mahler and premiered in July of
1985.

One critic called it, ‘‘An expensive
piece of reproduction furniture-
vintage style, executed with beau-
tiful new material.’’ Others have
Called it “evocative,” and, “‘a finish-
éd, lyrical piece, danced with finesse
and vivid personality.”

-. The Joffrey II is comprised of four-
teen young dancers between the ages
of sixteen and twenty-two, handpick-
ed by Robert Joffrey ai.d director of
Joffrey II Richard Englund from
dancers across the country. Founded
in 1969, the Joffrey IT prepares young

 

File Photo

dancers for the Joffrey Ballet, pro-
vides performance opportunities for
emerging choreographers, compo-
sers, costume designers and lighting
designers, and allows communities
unable to support a large ballet com-
pany to view professional dance.

The two stories in ‘Tales from
Hans Christian Andersen’ are per-
formed to the music of Edward
Elgar, and united by a prologue and
epilogue that one writer said
“reminds one of ‘“‘Andersen’s vision
and great love of children.” This
magical ballet is a holiday treat for
the entire community.

Local dancers will have the oppor-
tunity to participate in a master class
with Joffrey II Dancers following
their performances this Sunday.

The master class in ballet techni-
que will be held from 6:00 to 7:30 p.m.
at the Southern Seminary dance
studio. The fee is $15 and registration
must be made by calling Lee
RiCharde at 463-9670.

Because of the substantial support
given to RCTS by Washington & Lee
University, W&L students are admit-
ted at no charge.

W&L musicians play tonite

 

By MICAEL TUGGLE
Staff Reporter

 

For those wanting a “‘taste of
culture” and an enjoyable evening,
come to Lee Chapel tonight, at 8:00
p.m. Professor Robert Stewart’s
Music 113 students will present a
recital of chamber music complete
with pieces performed by the horns,
winds, strings, and percussion.

“They are all very accomplished
players’ said Professor Stewart.
Each of the performers has previous
training and participates in the
music program to sustain his or her
talent. This is the first year that

Washington and Lee has had a con-,
cert such as this one featuring in-
strumental ensembles. This concert
is a result of extreme student interest
according to Stewart, ‘‘They want to
play, and they want to play in
ensembles.”’

The program for tonight’s perfor-
mance showcases three pieces by the
dynamic Saxophone Quintet featur-
ing one ‘‘Ragtime’’ selection,
“Concerto in A minor for Two
Violins’ performed by freshmen
Karen Dash and Jennifer Spreng,
and ‘‘Variations on a Gavotte,” a
piece for strings adapted for sax-
ophone and piano by Sigurd Rascher,
one of the foremost saxophone

Native son scores big

 

By GREG TURLEY
Music Critic

 

 

As New Jersey has Bruce Spring-
steen and Indiana has John Cougar
Mellencamp, Virginia may now have
a rocker to call her own. Bruce Horn-
sby, a native son from Williamsburg,
has been a session keyboardist in Los
Angeles for years, playing in such
great bands as Sheena Easton’s.
Now, he and his own band, the
Range, have their first album, ‘‘The
Way It Is,” and we may be hearing
more from these guys in the future.

Hornsby’s keyboard talents are
clearly evident throughout the record
(On both piano and synthesizer).
What is appealing about his music is
the way he mixes both instruments to
form tight and clear melodies. Huey
Lewis helped to produce three of the
songs, and he gives the album a little
more depth than it might have had if
Hornsby had done the whole thing
himself. ‘The Long Race’, “Down
The Road Tonight’, and ‘‘The River
Runs Low’”’ all share Hornsby’s con-
cern of being far away from someone
or someplace. These songs have
more of an edge to them than some of
the record’s other tracks.

Hornsby’s Virginia horitage mani-
fests itself in his biggest hit, “‘The
Way It Is.’ He sees the country as
still being inherently prejudiced.
Talking about the Civil Rights Act of
1964, he says, ‘“‘The law don’t change
another’s mind/ When all I see at the

hiring time/ Is the line on the color

bar.” He is walking a fine line that

 

 

 

 

DRS SRE YRS RR YR WOES SE SE 2 ZR RETR TT PR OS
No Sugar—Plum Fairies Here, No, Sir.
; \, arian 1 J es { } Aye
5 "Ay | ‘ : “ : Bey) 7
hi |

 

 

 

 

 

order.

did,

Records
Tapes
Reindeer

Mel Torme. Pavarotti. And

going, we can have Burl Ives
Oh, it’s going to be

Lexington Christmas. Like

Is Flip Side ready for Christmas?. Does Santa get soot in his beard? You
better believe it, folks. Between now and the Midnight Clear, Flip Side will
be getting some great stuff in. Lessons & Carols. The George Strait
Christmas Album. Bruce Springsteen.

 

an earlier America. With the heritage of Lee and Jackson, and Sam
Houston, walking behind the carolers. Basselopes playing in the snow.
And if angels need an extra trumpet, we’ve plenty of Wynton Marsalis on

So come by the Flip Side, and get your shopping down. Whoever’s on
your list, we can help. ‘Is Flip Side out of options’? Do elves unionize? We
can help, believe me. So come see us. And look for our OPEN HOUSE in
December, to which all our friends are invited. Stop by. You'll be glad you

FLIP

25 W. Nelson

if Bill can get his beard
Look -Alike Contests.

fun this year. A real Merry
President Reagan’s vision of

Compact Discs
Jolliness
Nutcracker
Suites

  

   

Bisiaisivioiaiaiaiaiwe

 

would scare off other less qualifed
songwriters.

But Hornsby is an able songwriter,
and it is evident while listening to the
record. His lyrics, which he co-wrote
with his brother John, display an
understanding of the emotions of be-
ing somewhere far from home. On
“Every Little Kiss,’ arguably the
best song on the album, his piano at
the beginning leads into the song’s
melody, fitting to his situation of be-
ing all alone with only the phone to
help him get through the night.

With this effort, Bruce Hornsby
and the Range show that they are
willing to concentrate on some of the
problems of Virginia and the South.
Everybody writes about New York
and L.A., but it takes a little more ef-
fort to concentrate on the more deep-
ly rooted social problems of the
South. Let’s hope that Hornsby can
use his talents to focus more directly
on this theme in the years to come.

ABA AAABAAA

 

eat

a

players of the twentieth century.
Craig Cheney, who Stewart describes
as ‘‘exceptional’’ will provide the sax
solo with accompaniment by Cathe-
rine Williams.

The second half of the evening
begins with two pieces by the flute
trio comprised of Kathleen Morrison,
Tanya Pergola, and Stephanie Smith.
They will perform a ‘‘Trio”’ by Tulou
and ‘‘Allegro Concertante’ by
Mozart. The Brass Sextet will per-
form a series of American Revolu-
tionary marches and an “‘Allergo’’ by
Muozynski. The percussion ensemble
will close the recital with ‘‘Nails’’

_ and ‘‘Bravura.’’ They too were hailed

Pont Gallery. Public invited.

203, Reid Hall.

Law classes end.

Hall. Public invited.

Law School reading days begin.
Hall. Public invited.

Dancers. Lexington High School.

Center.

Hall.

Law School reading days end.
Center

Law School examinations begin.

 

 

ONCAMPUS

Thursday, December 4
3:30 - 5 p.m. — GALLERY RECEPTION: Student/Faculty Show, du-
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR:: “A Seminar in Stereo — two
Mikes,” Michael S. Blackwood '87 and Michael F. Morris ’87. Room
401, Howe Hall. Tea at 4:30 in room 402. Public invited. :
7:30 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “Harland County, USA”. Room

8 p.m. — CONCERT: Chamber Music by the W&L Instrumental
Ensembles. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Friday, December 5

8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Colonel Redl’’. Classroom A, Lewis

Saturday, December 6
8 p.m, — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘Colonel Redl.” Classroom A, Lewis

Sunday, December 7
3 p.m. — ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT THEATRE SERIES: Joffrey II

Monday, December 8
7:30 p.m. — BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Bridgewater. Warner

Tuesday, December 9
7 & 9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “Breathless”. Room 203, Reid

8 p.m. — CHRISTMAS CONCERT: W&L Instrumental Ensembles,
Glee Club and Chorus. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Wednesday, December 10
7:30 p.m. — WRESTLING: Generals vs. Virginia Tech. Warner
Thursday, December li

by Stewart. “They are percussion-
ists’’ he said, ‘‘and very good.”

Though the ensembles will be
presenting concerts at Southern Sem
this winter, this will be one of few
chances the Washington and Lee
community gets to hear these accom-
plished musicians before they depart
for their tour of the Bahamas this
spring. While there, they will present
performances at the College of the
Bahamas and at sea aboard the
cruise ship ‘‘Mardi Gras.”

Don’t miss this opportunity to hear
our fellow cohorts perform. The
evening will truly be an exciting pre-
sentation of music that no one should
miss.

 

 

Canterbury
Fellowship

Advent Service

of

Lessons and Hymns

Sunday, December 7

9:30 p.m.

Followed by reception — all invited

R.E. LEE MEMORIAL

See EE EE ee Ee Ee ee RE NE I IO

‘

    

  
  

4

SiVsiaiaaea

Bi

EPISCOPAL CHURCH

SIS SSSeas
~SSewVeni

4

ka?

463-1944

SIDE

er

al G

s
@

Bi

ws

 

Bist
Si

CUCM Meryery rhe ne)

x
«

&

SE EE ee ee ee ee a Me NN Ne eee
