 

Wuat
EVERYONE
SHOULD
KNow

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 86, NUMBER 22

MIDS Special section

AIDS and the
W&L campus

Page 4

  

he Ring-tiun Phi

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

brand new album

Page 8

 

CURA
cx UNVERS

 

1987

 

[Your weekend weather

Cloudy Fri.-Sat. and cold;
chance of rain Sunday

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 19, 1987

 

Big Three
election
results

By JOHN STARKS
Staff Reporter

 

When the speeches were finished,
the posters taken down and the ballot
boxes put away until next election,
three of the candidates emerged as
President, Vice-President, and
Secretary of the EC. As each of these
contemplates the tasks ahead and
realizes his responsibilities, he
begins to prioritize his goals. Brad
Root, Pat Schaefer, and Mark Chiap-
para know that as the Big Three of-
ficers for 1987-88 they must plan
ahead to get started on the right
track.

For all three the foremost concern
is the welfare of the Honor System.
Vice-President-elect Pat Schaefer
says the Honor System is the chief
responsibility of the EC. He adds, “‘I
can’t change the personal honor of
students, but I can instill in them the

  

Students vote for the Big Three.

importance of the single sanction
Honor System.”

President-elect Brad Root, while
noticing a challenge of the single
sanction from the law school, says,
“The most important thing to do is to
clear up the misunderstanding that
this is the EC’s Honor System. It is
the students’ Honor System.’’ Root
plans to further strengthen the orien-
tation of freshmen and first-year law
students into the W&L environment
by use of an “honor symposium,”’ in
which direct interaction between new
students and the EC can take place.

Incoming secretary Mark Chiap-
para claims, ‘‘All officers must
make an impression on freshmen,
because they need to know how im-
portant the Honor System is and that

 

 

But Root wants to change the ‘‘per-
ception that the Honor System is
something to be feared. It’s there to
help us as long as we're willing to
work for it.”

Schaefer hopes that by his duty as
technical advisor to the accused he
can make sure that those accused of
a possible honor violation understand
their rights and privileges, thus
eliminating some of the fear that the
System engenders. He also replies
that attempts to codify the System
must be quelled. The Honor System
is set and practical.

Root also extends Honor System
education to new faculty, who may be
unfamiliar with such a_ situation.
Such faculty orientation was attemp-

— See Three, page 3

 

Dittman defends

By TOM BRICKEL
Staff Reporter

 

Two weeks after the storm, pro-
blems and solutions are still being
debated with regard to the new
registration system. Begun for the
first time two weeks ago, it is still
unclear whether the on-line com-
puter system produced the problems
so many have complained about in
recent weeks, or was simply the vic-
tim of circumstances beyond its or
the University Registrar staff’s con-
trol.

The new procedure, which allowed
students to find out their schedule
within minutes of registering, gave
top priority to seniors to sign up for
classes, without the worry of being
closed out of classes with limited
enrollment.

But the system did have one side
effect, according to a large number

 

GENERAL
NOTES

 

Get Dr. Suess

The Mock Constitutional Con-
vention on May 2, 1987 is in-
terested in having teacher par-
ticipation. We are looking for a
few who will give a 5-7 minute
speech on line item veto, balanced
budget, states rights, or ERA.
Any teachers interested please
contact Alex Bryant as soon as
possible.

Duck!

“Shoot the Piano Player’
(France, 1960, dir. Francois Truf-
faut, from David Goodis’s novel
“Down There,” 84 min.) runs at
7:00 p.m., Wednesday - Thursday,
March 18 & 19, room 327, Com-
merce, sponsored by Politics
Dept., in English with French sub-
titles. Consciously eludes artistic
norms just as its criminal
characters elude legal norms
while the main character eludes
any social contract — thus mak-
ing this film a eulogy to anarchy
and a slap at the ethic of engage.
Like Dostoevksy, Truffaut’s
“crime story” is a profound
metaphor on the human condition.

Finders keepers

The University Center Lost and
Found has the following items:
ladies dress watch, quartz,
Helbros; Ford car key; 6 keys on
key ring with red madallion with
Loewe inscribed on back. If these
may be yours, stop by Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center.

Road trip!

This Saturday at 9:30 a.m. ten
W&L students will meet in the
University Center and travel to
the Skylark Estate on the Blue
Ridge Parkway. There they will
meet with ten Randolph-Macon
women for a seminar to discuss
issues relating to the two schools,
especially with regard to social
life. Lunch will be served. There is
no charge for this program. If in-
terested please contact Mrs.
Calkins or Dr. Worth. We will
return to campus by 5 p.m.

Chocolate treat

Anyone interested in sending an
“Easter-gram’’ to students at
W&L or any of the five women’s
colleges, please contact any
member of the Women’s Forum.
Messages are on sale from now
until Friday, March 27th for 50
cents. Your Easter-gram will be
delivered on April ist with a
chocolate bunny to the lucky
recipients.

 

violation of it is a serious matter.”’

Farley elected
IFC president

new registration

of students, in that it unfairly closed
those courses to underclassmen,
especially freshmen.

“The system basically worked the
way it was supposed to,” said
University Registrar D. Scott Ditt-
man. “It was not only designed to
reduce the work done by my staff and
by students, but also to provide a
benefit in the form of an immediate
schedule.”’

The system previously used by the
registrar’s office would enter infor-
mation from students’ registration
forms into the computer, which
would then assign sections of classes
with no regard to the section requests
of students. ‘‘In this way,’’ said Ditt-
man, ‘“‘the new system is saving my
staff from a lot of duplication of ef-
fort.”

Dittman admitted that the new
system was not entirely without its
faults, as was the previous system.
“Lines in the mornings were a pro-

blem with the old system, but not to
the extent of there being students
camping out overnight near the line
in order to ensure themselves of cer-
tain classes.”’

“In addition, a wedge was placed
between students and faculty ad-
visors in the new system when
students began changing their
schedule and entering it into the com-
puter without first consulting the ad-
visors,’ continued Dittman. ‘‘This
became a means of bypassing ad-
visors, losing out on the input
students, faculty, and myself believe
advisors should have.”’

Dittman added that because of the
number of courses with limited
enrollment, many upperclassmen
would drop down into lower level or
less popular course, “shutting out
underclassmen and_ especially
freshmen, who seemed to bear the

C) See New, page 3

 

 

By SAMUEL FOLEY
Staff Reporter

 

~ Junior Mark Farley was elected

Intra-Fraternity Council _presi-
dent Tuesday evening in the first
election that used the one house-
one vote method.

Farley, a member of Sigma Chi,
won the election 10-6 in a runoff
against Phi Delta Theta junior
Brad Watkins.

“T am very excited about being
elected,’ Farley said, ‘‘Chris Sax-
man and the other executive
board members did an excellent
job this year and I think the IFC is
in a good position for next year.”’

I the other elections, George
Early, of Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
was elected vice-president. Kappa
Alpha John Markley was elected
treasurer and Richard Norris, of
Pi Kappa Alpha, was elected as
secretary for next year.

This was the first use of the new
election system for the IFC. Sax-
man said the one house-one vote
system was incorporated into the
bylaws in order to make the pro-
cess easier. In order to win a can-
didate must receive a simple ma-
jority. If there is no clear majority
on the first ballot the top two vote
getters are put into a runoff to
determine the winner.

The process was certainly made
easier as the whole election took
less than twenty minutes. Kappa
Sigma was the only house that did
not attend the meeting and neither
did either of its two candidates for

 

office.

place this year.

said,

held next week.

 

 

 

Mark Farley

“Next year the IFC can focus on
other things than being a police
organization. I would like to see it
become more service oriented,”
Farley said. He also indicated
that he thought the fraternities
had compromised enough in the
rewriting of the bylaws that took

In other IFC business Dean
Buddy Atkins urged the frater-
nities to enforce a policy on allow-
ing cadets into their parties.
“They require a written invita-
tion. If they come and don’t havea
written invitation ask them to
leave. If they don’t just call the
police or the commandant,” he

Nominations were taken for
judicial board members Tuesday
evening and those elections will be

 

 

 

 

 

By PETER BOATNER
Staff Reporter

 

Once again, the young men of
Washington College are dressing in
grey and butternut, taking arms and
a few meager provisions, and
descending on towns with names like
Shiloh and Manassas to uphold the
honor of the South.

Yes, the Liberty Hall Volunteers
are back in action, and looking for a
few good men,

Under the direction of law students
John Williamson, Ernie Shaver, and
Steve Hammond, about 15 W&L men
interested in the Civil War are trying
to re-form one of the Confederacy’s

 

 

 

 

AIDS threat continues to grow

 

By PAUL SMITH
Staff Reporter

 

Everybody knows that pestilences have a way of recurring
in the world; yet somehow we find it hard to believe ones
that crash down on our heads from a blue sky. There have
been as many plagues as wars in history; yet always plagues
and wars take people equally by surprise.

From THE PLAGUE by Albert Camus.

When it first appeared six years ago, it was thought to
be nothing more than a medical curiosity, a disease
manifesting itself in the form of rare cancers, of un-
conventional infections caused by very common
miscroscopic organisms with which healthy humans
could and did live in harmony. But, to individuals with
depleted immune systems, what would seem to be inoc-
cuous viruses became lethal harborers of certain death.
As the number of cases spiraled, so did the possibility
that this phenomenon would become a major public
health issue.

And so it has. In recent years, Acquired Immune Defi-
ciency Syndrome (AIDS) has emerged as one of the
most significant and devastating diseases of the twen-
tieth century. Presently, in the United States alone,
there have been more than 32,000 reported cases of
AIDS, with over 18,000 of those having succumbed to its
deadly grip. Additionally, several million individuals in
the United States are presumed to be carriers, able to
pass on the virus but unaware of their perilous condition

Outside of the United States, Africa remains the single
most devastated area in terms of the number of AIDS
cases. According to recent articles in The Times of Lon-
don, over a million people in Africa are expected to die

from AIDS in the next few years, and several more
million are carriers of the virus which causes AIDS.

The AIDS-causing virus, HTLV-III (the third known
human T-lymphotropic virus) is suspected to spread via
body fluids such as blood and semen. It is believed to be
most commonly spread via sexual intercourse and the
sharing of needles, a practice common among IV-drug
users. The virus is believed not to be spread by casual
contact such as shaking hands, hugging, casual kissing,
although deep mouth kissing is believed to pose greater
risk.

Whereas AIDS has been viewed by the medical and
scientific community as an affliction limited to certain
risk groups, notably homosexuals, bisexuals, hemo-
philiacs and users of intravenous drugs, recent evidence
suggests that the disease is oblivious to sex, race or any
other considerations. In fact, heterosexuals comprise
the largest potential risk category as evidenced by re-
cent warnings of the Surgeon General of the United
States, and other health officials across the nation.

One such official, known for his emphatic assertions of
the risk of AIDS to heterosexuals, is an infectious
disease specialist at Walter Reed Hospital in Bethesda,
MD. Robert Redfield has conducted extensive research
on AIDS among military families which have one or
more members infected with the virus. Moreover, he
has studied young military recruits who test positive for
the AIDS antibody upon entering the Armed Forces. The
results he has gathered on modes of transmission are
profound and compelling. They indicate only one thing

AIDS affects everyone, regardless of his or her sexual
preferences.

See Research, page 4

Liberty Hall volunteers, ready for action.

Volunteers seek new recruits

greatest units.

Part of the Stonewall Brigade,
Company ‘I’ of the 4th Virginia,
known as the “Liberty Hall Volun-
teers,’’ was made up almost entirely
of Washington College students.

The unit fought for state’s rights
from Ist Manassas to Appomattox,
and was known as one of the best-
drilled units in the army.

Stonewall Jackson was so impress-
ed with the unit’s marching ability
that he often made them his camp
guard.

This favoritism often arounsed
jealousy for ‘‘Stonewall’s Pets,” as
the college boys were called.

To alleviate the envy, the Volun-
teers were often the first unit sent in-

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

to battle.

The new Liberty Hall Volunteers
are trying to recreate this proud
heritage.

The three law students found they
shared the hobby of taking part in
Civil War battle reenactments, and
decided to form a unit of authentical-
ly equipped W&L men to travel to up-
coming reenactments.

Shaver, for instance, took part in
this summer’s 125th anniversary re-
enactment of the battle of 1st
Manassas.

Several members of the group also
plan to travel to a reenactment of
Shiloh in April, where 7,000 weekend

() See Rebels, page 3

 

   

Paul Smith. and will lecture tonight

Cy
ih, v

 

Richard Keeling, chairman of the Task Force on AIDS, was interviewed by

Keeling to lecture on AIDS

From Staff Reports

 

Dr. Richard P. Keeling, associate
professor of internal medicine and
director of the department of student
health at the University of Virginia,
will give a lecture at Washington and
Lee on “AIDS and Other Sexually
Transmitted Diseases’ Thursday,
March 19,

The lecture, which is open to the
public, will be at 7:30 p.m. in Lee
Chapel and is sponsored by the office
of the Dean of Students at Washing
ton and Lee.

Keeling received his B.A. degree

with honors from the University of
Virginia, and his M.D. with honors
from the Tufts University School of
Medicine.

He is currently chairman of the
Task Force on AIDS for the Ameri-
can College Health Association and a
member of the Ad Hoc Advisory
Committee on AIDS for the US.
Public Health Service. He serves on
the Advisory Committees on AIDS
for the Charlottesville City Schools,
the Medical Society of Virginia and
the Episcopal Diocese of Virginia,

Keeling also serves as consultant
to many colleges and universities
regarding AIDS

 

seep erin RE ay pes ov -vy toe

 

4

ill
n-
ey
at
ial

its,

ing
en-

iad
2 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

iscussion

Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is a
disease affecting every socio-economic group. Regardless of
many to still consider it the ‘“‘gay plague,” it affects
heterosexuals as well as homosexuals. While it has yet to
reach epidemic proportions, there are 30,000 reported cases
of AIDS in the United States alone.

The only medicine available to control the spread of AIDS
is preventive medicine in the form of education. People need
to know that they have to use discretion in their sexual and
drug-related practices. This is not a situation where one can
say “‘It can’t happen to me,”’ because it can.

And even though the Student Health Committee has yet to
address the issue of AIDS, Dean of Students Lewis John
predicts it will. Presently the committee is trying to educate
the community by having information on AIDS at the infir-
mary.

This is not enough, and given the openness of the infirmary,
it is doubtful that many students are comfortable enough to
pick up a pamphlet. The first step toward educating the stu-
dent body can be taken by the physcial education depart-
ment.

Instead of requiring student taking gym classes to watch a
boring and out-of-date drug film, a film on AIDS would be
better.

AIDS is not a pleasant topic to discuss, but it should not be
one people are afraid to discuss.

Good P.R.

Lexington residents and merchants complain regularly
about the noise and litter that come with college parties and
about how loud/drunken/obnoxious W&L students can be.

The police ledger is filled with cases of W&L students driv-
ing while intoxicated, disturbing the peace and being drunk
in public.

W&L students, it seems, could use a little good P.R. as far
as the Lexington community is concerned.

Fraternities are willing to, and often do, do service work.
The IFC sponsors canned food drives. APO has a service pro-
ject going almost every weekend.

At last week’s Kathekon ‘‘town meeting,” community
residents suggested that a ‘‘clearing house”’ be set up so that
fraternities that want to do service work may be matched
with community groups needing help.

Fraternities and other student groups need to be their own
P.R. directors and notify newspapers and radio stations, and
The Ring-tum Phi of the good things they do. It would go a
long way to improve the image of W&L students in the com-

   

munity. —MED
* : Pa

he Ring-tum Phi
NEWS STAFF
BAER. occ cccccccccccsorveccssctessescseestecseressseessscesseeerice Sean Bugg
SED RN ES rrr rr John Pensec
Managing Editor, Entertainment Editor. ..................0cce eens Marshall Boswell
| eee ee ..»- David Emrich
Photography Editor.......... .. Perry Hayes
Assistant Sports Editor...........-++++ ... Mike Shady
Assignment Editor .........5-00cee cece eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseneeeees Steve Pockrass
EDITORIAL PAGE
Editorial Page Editor ...........00eeceece reece eeceeeeeeeeeteeeeeeens Marie Dunne
WIN, cons cs vcvneeeees cee ts Chris Bowring
BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager .............0+ee eee ce eet eeeesseeccsesesseeecass Rhona Hughes
Advertising Manager ..........005+s2 sce ece cere seeeeeteseeneeeesanees Robert Jones

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent. :

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office, Room 200 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Tuesday of the week they are to be run. Or send them to The
Ring-tum Phi, Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1987

2

 

LEXICON
Revolution: a call to arms

By Steven Pockrass

A small band of revolutionaries was among the smat-
tering of people scattered in Lee Chapel for last week’s
Phi Beta Kappa convocation.

It had been tough fighting against the lunch crowds
that obliviously pushed their way toward the dining hall,
but we made it.

And for that. Washington and Lee should be thankful.

For until we heard guest speaker Thomas Pressly, we
had been planning to rock this university until the Colon-
nade’s mighty white columns came crashing down. It

But Pressly changed our minds by citing examples of
how the U.S. Constitution had been flexible enough to
Pressly said. Riots and dissention could have led to
revolution.

In the late '60s and early ’70s, “‘there was polarization
and confrontation everywhere”’ due to the Vietnam War,
Pressly said. Riots and dissention could have led to
revolution.

In the depths of the Great Depression during the 1930s,
there was widespread fear and questioning of what was
to come,” said the esteemed history professor. There
were calls for revolution from the ‘‘Marxist left’”’ and the
“authoritarian right.”’ But the Constitution provided ‘‘a
framework in which substitutes for revolution could be
found.”

Whether we were on the right or the left as we sat in the
chapel really is of little concern. What is important is that
we realized that there were substitutes for revolution
here at W&L, and before we razed Gen. Lee’s college, we
were obliged to at least give them a try.

Pretty radical, huh?

Now you may be saying to yourself, ‘‘Steve, (which is a
funny thing to say to yourself), have you been nipping at
the old milk bottle? What’s all this pachyderm poop about
smashing the Colonnade into splinters?”

Well, I'll tell you. There are a lot of people around
here—students, faculty, administrators, alumni—who
think there are some grave problems at this school. Yet
despite all we’ve heard about a fraternity renaissance,
why doesn’t anyone talk about a total university
renaissance?

With all this banter about traditions and lost traditions,

why aren’t we doing anything positive to make W&L into
what we claim it to be—a national, liberal arts institution
that produces thoughtful, well-educated gentlemen. (And
I use that term in the neutered, although certainly not
emasculated, sense. )

So before the walls come tumblin’ down, we all need to
work toward the goal of improving this university. What
this means is that we must through away our old modes
of thinking and come up with some new ideas. After all,
isn’t that what college is all about?

Individual students must look at where we place our
priorities and decide what personal changes we must
make to more truly fit the Greek model of the well-
rounded person and Robert E. Lee’s model of the
gentleman.

Faculty members must continue to be accessible to
students and must provide positive reinforcement
whenever possible. They must remain knowledgeable in
their respective fields and actively support the develop-
ment of well-rounded students.

As Chris Carter so articulately pointed out in last
week’s Phi, administrators must find ways to improve
credibility and communications with students. The ad-
missions office needs to start worrying more about poten-
tial involvement in school activities than about high test
scores.

Isn’t it time that the school found a better way to con-
tact students than by sticking those stupid index cards
outside classroom doors? Isn’t it time that the SAB con-
sidered making Fancy Dress a costume ball again, and
that the EC considered making the Honor System more
open so people would understand why thievery in certain
circumstances no longer seems to be considered an honor
violation?

Isn’t it time that the faculty started posting the minutes
of its meetings so that students could find out more about
what’s going on? Isn’t it time that all of us made a con-
scientious effort to maintain the speaking tradition in-
stead of whining about its death?

I could go on, but I think you get the idea. We
revolutionaries did as we sat in Lee Chapel last week.
Let’s hope we can keep this revolution bloodless.

 

 

 

LETTERS

Underweenies respond to law goose’s opinion

To the Editors:

A couple of underweenies would like to offer a
critical review of the critical review by Charlie
Shaffer on the S.A.B.’s presentation of F.D. for
1987. Mr. Shaffer has nothing nice to say about
F.D., except of course, for the law school excur-
sion to Bean’s Bottom.

In chronological order:

Wednesday

While he didn’t catch their act, he did opine
that New Potato Caboose’s name stunk. Are we
to derive from this that because the name stunk
so did the band? Doesn’t the law school teach
that judging a book by its cover can be mis-
leading?

Thursday

The name of the opening act was indeed Con-
crete Blonde but they hail from L.A. not Ireland.
He used to think the Irish were cool until now. We
hope Mr. Shaffer is not representative of West
Virginians (or law students) else we should feel
the same way.

Friday

Your characterization of all ‘road chicks’ is
incorrect, A bunbette is a bimbo under the age of
18 (watch “Flamingo Kid’’ and learn). Most
“road chicks” are at least 18 years of age and
will, no doubt, enjoy receiving a copy of his arti-
cle.’

In closing, we feel that a 3rd law student, of at
least 25 years of age, would have watched to the
extent that blatant racism, name calling and
shallowness could be disguised a little better.
Since we're only 20 we aren’t, so listen you nasty
little law goose, fly over our house and we'll
shoot you down.

C. Martin ’88
J. Missert ’88
T. Bullotta ’89

APO brings order to library

To the Editor:

I would like to thank Bob Slappey, Brent
O’Boyle, Jon Deighan, Dean Nuckols, Steven
Pockrass, and Doug Harvey, members of Alpha
Phi Omega, who gave of their time and talents
by volunteering at the Rockbridge Regional
Library on Sunday afternoon, March 1, from 1:00
to 5:00 p.m., under the able direction of volunteer
coordinator Marion Chappell.

These men worked very hard to shelf read the
collection, putting books in the right places,
straightening, and bringing order out of chaos in
the library stacks. We had had many complaints
about the condition of the stacks, and although
staff members and volunteers work away at the
job as time permits, with this team effort and
with this many expert man-hours at one time,
our library has truly been transformed over-

t.

The library staff and users have marvelled at
this sudden improvement, and want your
readers to know how much the tireless efforts of
APO have meant to the library and to the com-
munity. Thank you!

Linda L. Krantz
Library Director

GHQ ID policy outlined

To the Editor:

I am writing this letter in response to Thom
Randolph's letter and the editorial in last week’s
Phi regarding valid I.D.’s. As head of security
for the G.H.Q., I would like to make it clear that I

work for Mr. Bill Torrence, manager of the
G.H.Q., and that I ultimately answer to Mr.
Jerry Darrell, the Director of Food Services,
which means that security at the G.H.Q. is in no
way under the control of the SAB. Early in the
school year, at the request of Mr. Torrence, I
met with representatives of the A.B.C. to discuss
issues such as “‘carding”’ procedures.

I was told in this meeting that college I.D.’s
were not considered by the A.B.C. to be valid
proof of a persgn’s age, and that allowing per-
sons to drink alcoholic beverages based solely on
this would put our beer licenses in serious
jeopardy. Upon asking what constitutes a “‘valid
I.D.,” I was told that a valid driver’s license with
a picture or a military I.D. would be the best
defenses if we had to go before the A.B.C. Board.
I was also told that it would be in our best in-
terest to check two forms of I.D., each with a
clear picture.

In the past it has been the responsibility of the
SAB to card at the door. The week before the in-
cident with Mr. Randolph, however, I personally
observed between 15 and 20 freshmen and soph-
omores drinking with stamps on their hands
showing them to be of legal age. This puts the
G.H.Q. ina compromising position, as a violation
of the A.B.C. rules could result in the loss of our
beer license. It is now the responsibility of
G.H.Q. security to card all G.H.Q. patrons.

Mr. Darrell, after recently conferring with the
area A.B.C. representative and the E.C.,
developed a new carding policy for the G.H.Q.,
which is as follows: if you are of legal drinking
age and wish to drink, you must present two
I.D.’s at the door, one of which must be a picture
license or a military I.D. (area college I.D.’s will
be accepted as a second I.D. only); if you are
under age, you must present an area college I.D.
to gain entrance (this is to keep high school
students out). Non-students of drinking age will
be permitted only if they show two I.D.’s at the
door, and no intoxicated persons will be admitted
regardless of I.D. This new policy will be strictly
enforced at all G.H.Q. functions. Let me also add
that we may admit anyone whom we know or be-
lieve to be of legal age without checking their
I.D. This saves us time in that we do not have to
card people who appear to be 45, or friends we
know to be 21; so in the future, Mr. Randolph, do
not get bent out of shape when we admit a buddy
of yours without checking his I.D.

The new procedure is not meant to keep
anyone from having a good time, it is merely an
effort on our part to retain our beer license.
Drinking at the G.H.Q. is a privilege, not a right,
and may be taken away by the A.B.C. at any
time. So save yourself a hassle, Mr. Randolph,
and bring your W&L I.D. and your driver’s
license if you wish to drink.

John G. Mitchell, III ’87
Head of G.H.Q. Security

Darrell discusses ID policy

An open letter to the student body:

Since the responsibility for the ABC license in
the GHQ tavern is mine, I am responding to
Thom Randolph’s letter and the editorial in the
March 12 Phi. The GHQ Tavern is licensed by the
state of Virginia to sell beer on premises.
Licenses are not available for the asking.
There is quite a lengthy and detailed process in
making application. Once approved, however,
the licensee is bound by the laws of the state of
Virginia. If the laws are not enforced by the
licensee, the license is history, and the privilege
of serving beer is revoked. We then have a dry
tavern. It’s that simple. It happens all the time.

The state of Virginia requires an official docu-
ment with a picture, date of birth and signature
as a first form of identification and “strongly
suggests’ a second I.D. with a picture and/or
signature (I have every indication that this se-
cond I.D. will soon become law). This identifica-

tion is required of anyone who wishes to pur- |

chase alcoholic beverages. The state no longer
recognizes a college I.D. as a valid form of ABC

identification (because it has been so blatantly

abused at other colleges across the state).

What would our student body have us do? We
can request that the ABC Board, because of the
special circumstances here at W&L (the honor
system) allow us to accept the W&L I.D. (and I
would recommend the VMI I.D. as well), at GHQ
as identification; that the students would in fact,
be stating that ‘under my honor I am of legal
drinking age in the state of Virginia.” The penal-
ty for violating this trust is obvious. The ABC
people have warned us that this measure will
greatly endanger our license. History has shown
in the GHQ that it sometimes does not work. Ask
any of our GHQ student security people (not to be
confused with the SAB ticket sellers) about their
problems in attempting to enforce the law!

Effective this date the following policy is in ef-
fect in GHQ: On Wednesdays and other band
nights, only students with college I.D.s will be
admitted. Only those with a valid driver’s license
will be permitted to purchase beer. Other non-
students, over 21 years of age only, will be admit-
ted with two form of identification.

Jerry Darrell
Director of Food Service

MSA praises history exhibit

To the Editors:

I would like to sincerely thank Peggy Hays at
the University library for her work with the
black history exhibit ‘‘Don’t Grieve After Me.”’
Not only did she arrange for this exhibit on her
own, but she chose a very appropriate place for
the exhibit. With registration being moved to the
lower level of the library this year, all students
got a chance to view the exhibit. Hopefully,
many students took some time to view the entire
display. The members of the Minority Student
Association thank Peggy Hays for the work she
has done, in addition we think she should be com-
mended.

Dana J. Bolden
V.P., MSA

Frat conducts charity drive

To the Editor:

I and the members of Lambda Chi Alpha would
like to thank the generous people of Lexington
and Rockbridge County for their support in our
project to supply clothing for the needy. We were
able to collect more than $2,500 worth of clothing.
When reported to the government, our bene-
ficiary, TAP Community Outreach, will receive
matching funds for additional aid. Thanks for the
most part to the generousity of the residents of
Lexington and the county, the gift is worth $5,000.

John B. Cummings III
President, Lambda Chi Alpha

 

 

mare

ME EN tS AOR HN NR SE A RP NSS A NA mS ee

ss
~

NEWS/OPINION

 

The site of the planned University Theater.

Train station to house theater

By STACY MORRISON
Staff Reporter

 

The new University Theatre pro-
ject is now halfway through it’s fund-
raising stage, said Albert Gordon,
professor of fine arts.

The project was started approx-
imately five years ago. The ad-
ministration decided that the old
train station on route 60, just beyond
the gym, would be a good site for the
new theater, said Frank Parsons, ex-

By DANA BOLDEN
Staff Reporter

 

Both the English and History
departments are offering awards to

qualified undergraduate students

this year.

In the spring of this year, the
department of history is offering the
Vann Prize. This is a cash prize of
$750 and is open to any W&L junior or
senior, regardless of academic ma-
jor, who submits a superior paper in
the fields of modern European his-
tory or modern European architec-
ture.

According to Professor Robert
McAhren, “‘The prize was a gift given

ecutive assistant to the president.

The train station was acquired by
the university in 1970 in the after-
math of hurricane Camille, said Par-
sons. The hurricane washed out
many of the tracks and some of the
building, rendering the station
useless.

Currently, about half of the funding
for the nine-million-dollar project
has been raised, Professor Gordon
said. He is optimistic that ‘‘the fund-
raising should be finished by the

to the University last fall and will be
awarded annually in memory of Jim-
my Vann, W&L ’61, distinguished
historian of modern Germany. Vann
died in the summer of 1986.

The History Department en-
courages (but does not require) that
the winner of the prize use the money
to defray the cost of graduate ex-
penses or on European travel.

The deadline for submission of
papers is April 20 and more informa-
tion can be obtained from Professor
Cecil in Newcomb Hall 1.

The Mahan Awards in creative
writing are being offered by the
English department. The award is
named for George H. Mahan of Han-

Hattes to study

From Staff Reports

 

Deborah E. Hattes, a Washington
and Lee sophomore from Harland,
Wis., has become the fourth W&L stu-
dent in as many years to win a full
scholarship for a year’s study at Rik-
kyo University in Japan.

Hattes will attend Rikkyo in Tokyo
from September 1987 to July 1988.
W&L has had an exchange program
with Rikkyo since 1977 and is one of
four American institutions with
which Rikkyo has an exchange pro-

gram.
At W&L, Hattes is a member of the
International Club, the Chinese-

Japanese Club, and the Alcohol and
Health Awareness Committee. She is
a reporter for The Ring-tum Phi, the
student newspaper, and serves on the
constitutional convention committee.

Hattes, the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Neil R. Hattes of Fairview
Court in Hartland, Wis., is a graduate
of Arrowhead High School.

The East Asian Studies Program at
Washington and Lee is interdisci-
plinary in nature and introduces
students to the languages, literature,

 

at Rikkyo in Tokyo

 

 

 

 

Deborah Hattes

and culture of China and Japan
through extensive offerings in
various fields.

Rikkyo University, one of Japan’s
top-ranking private universities, was
founded in 1874 by a missionary of the
Anglican Episcopal Church. The
university has five colleges, each
with a graduate division, and seven
research institutions.

AP President Boccardi

to give lect

From Staff Reports

 

Louis D. Boccardi, president of the
Associated Press, will deliver a lec-
ture titled “‘Press Responsibility” at
Washington and Lee.

Boccardi’s lecture will be at 7:30
p.m., March 20 in the Moot Court-
room in Lewis Hall on the W&L cam-
pus. The public is invited.

A graduate of Fordham College
and the Columbia University
Graduate School of Journalism, Boc-
cardi began his career as a reporter
for the New York World-Telegram &
Sun. During his seven years with the
newspaper, he rose through various
news and administrative positions to
become assistant managing editor.

Boccardi was named president of
AP in 1985 after serving for one year
as executive vice president and chief

NEW

 

(continued from page 1)

brunt of the problems.”

However, the problems associated
with limited class enrollment were
not products of the new system, says
Dittman, but merely coincided with

iat exacerbated the
situation.

Professor Robert McAhren, chair-
man of the history department,

ure

operating officer. Before that, Boc-
cardi served for 10 years as ex-
ecutive editor in command of a staff
of more than 1,400 reporters and
editors in more than 215 bureaus
around the world.

In addition to serving as a Pulitizer
Prize juror, Boccardi is a member of
the Research and Marketing Com-
mittee of the American Newspaper
Publishers Association. He is a
member of the ANPA’s Industry Af-
fairs Committee, the advisory board
of the Gannett Center for Media
Studies, and the board of governors
of the Media and Society Seminars of
the Columbia School of Journalism.

Boccardi’s visit to W&L is part of a
small national conference of the
Mass Communications and Society
Division of the Association for
Education and Journalism in Mass
Communication.

agrees. ‘‘The two factors — the new
on-line registration, and the limita-
tion in class sizes — unfortunately
combined in making the registration
system more arbitrary and inflexi-
ble. The new system, however, did
not cause these problems.”’

The problem, says McAhren, in-
stead lies in the restrictions placed
on enrollment. ‘For example, the
difficulty we encountered this year in
the history department was that we
did not anticipate the need to reserve
spaces for different classes. We did
set limits, but assumed a propor-
tional number of students would be
rewarded these places,’’ said

   

 

By Perry 8. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

summer of ’88 and is going pretty
well,”’

The building will not be used en-
tirely for the purpose of the theater,
Elrod said. It will also be used for
“office space, storage, and possibly
classrooms,’ he added.

The plans for the train station were
designed by the Ford, Powell and
Carson architectural firm of San An-
tonio, Texas, said Gordon. However,
the outside of the building will
“essentially remain the same,”’ add-
ed Elrod.

Cash competitions underway

nibal Missouri, a ‘‘Lee student’’ who
died in 1936.

The contest is open to all students.
Students can submit either prose or
poetry entries, but if submitting a
prose entry they must be registered
for the class in which they compete.

There are four awards of $150 each
for prose entries and one prize of $200
for a poetry entry from an under-
graduate. Decisions on the entries
will be reached during the spring
term, and awards will be announced
on the commencement program.

The deadline for entries is April 27
and more information can be obtain-
ed from the English department in
Payne Hall.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1987

Elections draw 56 candidates

 

By MARGARET PIMBLETT
Staff Reporter

The onslaught of campaign posters
has begun—it’s time for class elec-
tions.

Elections for president, vice-
president and Executive Committe
representatives for the rising
sophomore, junior and senior classes
will be held next Monday.

Fifty-six candidates submitted
petitions and attended the Voting
Regulations Board meeting last Mon-
day. Of those candidates, 15 are ris-
ing seniors, 16 are rising juniors and
25 are rising sophomores.

Twelve students are competing for
president of their classes, 19 for vice-
president and 25 for E.C. represen-
tative.

The most-hotly contested race is
for rising sophomore Executive Com-
mittee representative, with 13 cand-

candidates.

Six women are running for class of-
fices, including four freshmen and
two sophomores. Of the women can-
didates, one is vying for class presi-
dent, two for class vice-president and
three for E.C. representative.

Scott Yancey, vice-chairman of the
VRB, explained the election rules to
the candidates in the abscence of
VRB chairman John Scannapieco,
who was in Florida at the time of the
meeting.

Yancey said that each candidate is
limited to 15 posters on campus—the
Colonnade and other academic
buildings, the library, the bookstore
and snack bar, dormitories, the
University Center and the dining
hall.

Woods Creek Apartments and fra-
ternity houses are not included in the
poster limit, Yancey said, because
the VRB considered them off-campus
living areas.

Posters cannot be placed on

 

 

 

THE MORAL EQUINENT
OF OUR FOUNDING
FATHERS...

m 4
i =

i.
hy ee

\ \ : if
Ay
Lat \\\ \
We

HI y mi) =

 

painted surfaces such as doors or col-
umns, Yancey said, and no bedsheet
campaign posters may be hung.

In addition, the candidates are
limited to spending $25 on their cam-
paigns.

The ballot boxes for Monday’s elec-
tions will be located in the Davis Dor-
mitory quad, outside the library.

In case of rain, the boxes will be
moved under the overhangs of the
library and Commerce School, and
into the Baker Dormitory breezeway
between the quad and the dining hall.

Students will be able to vote for one
candidate for their class president
and vice-president, and two for their
E.C. representative.

Two candidates for president and
vice-president of each class will pro-
ceed to the run-off if no one candidate
receives a majority of the votes cast.
For E.C. candidates in each class
will be listed on the run-off ballot.

The run-off elections will be held

next Thursday.

ASQ
vA

National Student News Service

 

 

Convention Sicaiaers underway

By OLLY WILLIAMS

Staff Reporter

 

Preparations for Washington and
Lee’s Mock Constitutional Conven-
tion to be held May 2, 1987 are well
under way. The five issues that will
be debated have been announced.
The proposed amendments include a
balanced budget, right-to-life, state’s
rights, line-item veto, and equal
rights.

According to Deborah Hattes,
Chairman of the Rules and Regula-
tions Subcommittee of the Conven-
tion Steering Committee, ‘‘What we
are holding is a Mock Article V na-
tional constitutional convention.’’
Although a convention of this nature
has never been held in the history of
the United States, it is one of the two
constitutionally mandated ways to
amend the constitution.

Hattes reiterated that “‘it is hard to
know exactly what would be done
because it has never been done.”’

The steering committee is trying
“to simulate what would happen at a
constitutional convention if one were
held this year.”

The issue of a convention has
arisen in light of the bicentennial an-
niversary of the U.S. Constitution
and because 32 of the necessary 34

states have petitioned’ Congress to
call a convention to consider a
balanced budget amendment. °

Hattes explained the process used
to determine what issues will be
debated.

“What we did is to follow the same
procedure the states would do. We
asked state chairmen to turn in peti-
tions calling for a convention and for
specific issues.”’

One method used by state chair-
men to collect information from their
states was contact with state officials
and elect representatives.

Hattes explained that the Rules
and Regulations Committee decided
to take five pre-selected issues to the
floor.

Thirty three states submitted 98
petitions. Two additional states turn-
ed in petitions late that are not in this
official talley. The top five issues
were: Balanced Budget Amendment
with 25 states, Right-to-life Amend-
ment with 15 states, States’ Rights
with 10 states. An amendment allow-
ing a line-item veto tied with the
Equal Rights Amendment with both
proposals receiving endorsements
from 6 states.

Hattes said that ‘a lot of in-
teresting issues did not receive
enough votes to be considered.’’ Ex-
amples include making English the

 

THREE

(continued from page 1)

 

ted this year but only in one meeting,
with no follow up to the ‘‘one-shot”’
process. Root intends to change that.
Clearly the Honor System is at the
top of the new Big Three’s goals.

On more particular matters, Root
cites the importannce of student
viewpoint and the solicitation of stu-
dent concerns in which he ‘‘won't
back down before administrative
proposals that students don’t like.”
However, he does want to bridge the
gap between the administration and
student body.

Schaefer notes that Student Control
rules will be up for review, and he
will work for a middle ground be-
tween the sentences of social proba-

McAhren.

“The problem can probably be
remedied by reserving spaces for all
students,”’ continued McAhren. ‘‘The
cost would be that fewer juniors and
seniors would be able to take desired
history courses.”

In the past, students could avoid
limits in class sizes by getting per-
mission from instructors early,
enabling majors and _ interested
students to enroll early in the courses
they desired. To retain the advan-
tages of this, says McAhren, the
history department is considering
maintaining the restrictions imposed
by the new system, but allowing per-

tion and suspension for violations.
One is a ‘‘slap of the wrist” the other
“very extreme.’’ He also notes the
“minor” problem of parking in the
“corral” which can be solved by
elimination of medians. On the issue
of the budget, he says he will keep a
sharp eye on funds of large organiza-
tions like SAB.

Chiappara says he intends to
quicken the distribution of the EC
minutes and honor reports because
“it’s important that students know
our actions as soon as possible. We
owe them that.’’ He also urges
students to attend the EC meetings
Monday evenings at 7:00 PM.

All in all, the Big Three have big
ideas for next year’s EC. They all
look forward to working together for
the betterment of W&L, while main-
taining the individuality for which
they were elected. As the cornerstone
of the EC, their goals are paramount
to the smooth running of student
government. They have a lot ahead.

mission for early enrollment. ‘‘This
would retain the flexibility of the old
system, but would probably elim-
inate some of the advantages of the
on-line system.”’

“But again, limited class sizes is
the real problem we have to get
around,”’ said McAhren. ‘‘We have to
restrict enrollment to a certain ex-
tent for more student-teacher in-
teraction to be possible. It’s a pro-
blem that will continue to exist under
any system used.”’

“We are hoping that we can retain
the on-line system, changing it to
make it more valuable and less pain-
ful,” said Dittman. ‘“‘The relative

official language, changing the
Presidential term and dismantling
the Electoral College.

Now that the top five issues have
been decided, issue committees are
in the process of meeting. Each issue
is being addressed by a committee
composed of representatives from
ten states. The issue committee has
the job of ‘‘taking all the petitions on
a particular issue and putting those
into one proposed amendment, writ-
ten in constitutional language that
will be put before the convention of
May 2nd,” said Hattes.

Julie Sheppard, Rules and Regula-
tions ad hoc member to the Balanced
Budget Committee explained how
her committee has followed this pro-
cess. ‘‘We held a meeting last week,
and we identified the differences
among the proposals of 27 states for
the Balanced Budget Amendment,”’
she said. ‘We are holding a second

REBELS

 

(continued from page 1)
Rebels and Yankees are expected.

Most of the participants in these
battles come in well-organized units,
and the group is hoping to recruit
enough members to be able to attend
events as the “Liberty Hall Volun-
teers.”

In the meantime, though, the
reenactors have to join with other
groups.

Participants in these renactments
are very serious about creating the
same atmosphere that a real Civil
War soldier would have felt, accord-
ing to Williamson.

The minimum a new recruit would
need to attend a reenactment is a full
uniform, a haversack, and a weapon.

The weapon is the most expensive
part of the set-up, with a replica of a
Civil War Enfield rifle costing over
$200, according to Williamson.

Used uniforms, he said, are easy to
buy at reenactments.

“This can be a fairly expensive
hobby, with guns and rifles,” he
noted.

To help with costs, the EC supplied
the group with money to buy two
rifles, and more money is expected
for weapons next year.

newness of this system lent itself to
problems, but problems that can be
ironed out in time. The question
students unhappy with the system
should ask themselves is whether the
benefit of an immediate schedule,
with the desired time slots and pro-
fessors, is worth sacrificing some
personal contact with faculty. It is a
question I myself am trying to find
out,”’ Dittman continued.

Dittman asked that question at
Monday’s meeting of the Executive
Committee. At that meeting, he
heard both positive and negative
views of the current system, and
went on to take a ‘‘grass roots’ poll

meeting to.debate the relative merits
of the various suggestions to for-
mulate a final amendment pro-
posal.”’

“We'd like to publicize them so
state delegations can firm up their
state’s positions and so that pro and
con sides can start formulating their
debates,” said Hattes. She added
that the Rules and Regulations Com-
mittee will not coordinate either side
— it is up to the states themselves to
develop pro and con debates.

More than 500 students have
already joined delegations, but the
steering committee hopes to involve
as much of the student body as possi-
ble in the convention. Lists of state
chairmen can be found around cam-
pus, particularly in the Student
Center. Students may join a delega-
tion by simply contacting a state
chairman.

The plan, then, is for the unit,
through the school, to purchase
weapons, and for the individual
members to supply all the ac-
cessories.

Because the school is helping with
finances, Williamson said the unit
would be “more than happy’’ to
assist at school ceremonies as a sort-
of honor guard.

VMI has a well-equipped, school
sponsored reenactment group, and
Williamson hopes to get together
with them for local reenactments,
such as Hunter’s raid on Lexington.

“We could burn VMI,”’ he said,
citing one of the results of that Civil
Warn raid on Lexington.

Also, Williamson wants to attract
people who are just interested in
black powder weapons.

The rifles used by the unit are
black powder guns, and firing prac-
tice is available at the VMI rifle
range.

Women can take part in the re-
enactments as well. They attend in
the role of nurses, wives, or “camp
followers.”

In the meantime, ‘‘We are just like
the Confederate Army,” Williamson
said, ‘‘we need two things: men and
equipment.”’

If you are interested, the Liberty
Hall Volunteers will be drilling at
Liberty Hall on Sunday at 2:30 p.m.

Drop by, or contact John William-
son.

of the general opinion of the students
present.

Responding to Dittman’s inquiry,
some students expressed concern at
the loss of closeness associated with
on-line registration. ‘‘Students
sometimes felt they were treated like
a number, rather than a person,”
commented Andrew Caruthers,
senior class representative on the

Executive Committee.

The general concensus of the poll
was that a majority of students
favored having their choice of

classes over having their choice of
sections, professors, or days, even
when known in advance.
 

CAMPUS

(continued from page 4)

 

is pure as the driven snow, that’s not going to assure that
by Thanksgiving we don’t have a certain number within
the population who have been to Charlottesville,
Roanoke, Atlanta, and have experimented (sexually).”

“I think screening would offend everybody,’ adds
Schroer, “It would offend parents and alumni. I think
Washington and Lee would be the last school to come
down with that sort of regulation. It would be in every
other school in the state of Virginia before we even begin
to talk about it here.’’

Although the very mention of AIDS can conjure up
images of innocent individuals ravaged by a physically
devastating disease, the psychological impact is often
overlooked. Depression and solitude are two emotions
experienced by many victims of AIDS, both those who
have been infected by the virus, and those who have not.

Describing one phenomenon associated with the AIDS
epidemic, Worth recalled one student who feared aids,
yet had no rational reason for his fear. “I’ve already
seen one case of AIDS phobia,”’ says Worth, ‘‘...the guy
hadn’t even had intercourse with anybody. I think we
will see a lot more of that. I think counseling students
who have unreasonable fears about AIDS is going to be
one thing (we must consider).”’

But students who face a positive antibody test must
face the real test — the depression, the frustration, and
the sense of isolation brought on by a stigmatic disease
which society does not accept.

“Counseling a victim (of AIDS) is a very special
thing,’’ says Worth. ‘‘You’re counseling the terminally
ill, or that person in limbo who has the positive an-
tibodies; they’re sitting on a ticking time bomb. I think
that’s going to be a very special kind of counseling situa-
tion. I’ve never counseled anybody in that position.”’

Keeling explains that people who test positive on the
AIDS antibody test ‘‘eventually integrate that into their
lives, but they typically have a period of time where it’s
real hard and they get very depressed. They question
their priorities; they worry about their current relation-
ships — sexual partners, previous sexual partners, who
might they have infected...they lose their trust. They
often do feel isolated.”

“That's the reason for all this counseling (counseling
before and after the blood screening test), because if
they are left to deal with all that with no reference point,
suicide is a real problem. And people with AIDS commit
suicide at an alarming rate. What we try to help people
do is to live with this rather than run away from it, either
by ignoring it or committing suicide,” Keeling says.

Worth agrees, noting that this is common among per-
sons with incurable diseases: ‘‘I think some people who
get AIDS will probably commit suicide just as people
with incurable cancer. When someone has an incurable
disease, there is a certain natural thought — ‘Do I want
to just let the disease play its course or do I want to take
control and at least time my death when I want it to be,
and how I want it to be, with perhaps more dignity, with
less pain, with less expense.’ I can see a person with a
terminal illness such as AIDS making a rational argu-
ment for suicide. I’m not saying I recommend that. I am
not saying I would do that myself.”’

As AIDS spreads deeper into our society both medical-
ly and psychologically institutions and individuals will
have to respond accordingly. Since there is no cure for
the disease, individuals should follow basic safety prac-
tices. According to the American College Health
Association these include reducing the number of sexual
partners, knowing your sexual partners, avoiding the
exchange of body fluids by using condoms all of the time,
avoiding the use of intravneous drugs and finally
avoiding the mix of alcohol and sexual encounters which
could cloud one’s judgement.

“Ellen Goodman wrote a recent piece in the Wash-
ington Post that I felt was very good,” explains Worth,
“If you recall the last point, that it would be a great
tragedy if the AIDS virus proves to be more adaptive
than the human beings that are victimized by it. I really
agree with what she says.”

“T just hope that it won’t have to get to the point when
all of a sudden 47 W&L students come down with AIDS
and are dead within a year,” says Worth. “The hope is
through education it won’t have to get to that point,
before students start taking precautions.”

A pestilence isn't a thing made to man’s measure,
therefore we tell ourselves that pestilence is a mere bogy of
the mind, a bad dream that will pass away. But it doesn’t
always pass away and, from one bad dream to another, it is
men who pass away, and the humanists first of all, because
they haven't taken their precautions. -Albert Camus.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1987, Page 5

 

a

HEAL Th

x

 

INFORMATION
SERIFS

 

Wauat

EVERYONE
SHOULD

AMERICAN -COLLE-GE
4° HEALTH -ASSOCIATION,

{

—

t

a2,
ae

f le

 

KNOW

 

 

This pamphlet on AIDS, available in the Student Health
Center, explains facts and answers questions about the

diseases and how it is spread.

 

Wa&L staff
conducts

lab survey

From Staff Reports

The staff of Washington and Lee’s
laboratory of anthropology recently
completed a Phase I archaeological
survey of a sewage treatment im-
provement area in Radford, Va.

Under contract with Anderson and
Associates of Blacksburg, Va., the
archaeologists implemented a sys-
tematic testing method designed to
identify cultural resources within the
site area.

Two prehistoric areas and one
historic activity area were identified
and assessed with respect to the
criteria for eligibility for inclusion on
the National Register of Historic
Places. Although the assessment
concluded that the three areas were
not significant, the archaeologists
recommended that the two prehis-
toric areas be monitored during con-
struction.

Their survey was published in a
report by Dr. John McDaniel, direc-
tor of the laboratory of anthropology
and principle investigator, and Kurt
Russ, research archaeologist who
served as project director. Field and
lab assistants included W&L under-
graduates Bill Londrey, John Metz,
Rob Merritt, Frank Kannapell, Bill
Gossman and Rick Rodius.

 

Magazines,
yearbook
: working

'.» By STACY MORRISON
©» Staff Reporter

 

 

- Currently, Washington and Lee
‘+ University’s many campus publica-
- tions are working busily to meet their
- collective deadlines.
Sean Butler, President of the
. Publications Board, said, ‘‘Most of
the campus publications come out
two times a year.” This includes the
Ariel, the Washington and Lee
Political Review, the Washington
and Lee Journal of Science. The
Calyx, the student yearbook, is
issued only once a year.

Butler is also editor of the Ariel,
the student literary magazine. The
fall/winter issue of the Ariel came
out in mid-January, and the spring
issue is slated for late May, accor-
ding to Butler. The Ariel publishes
solicited contributions of original
writings from the student body. This
includes poetry, short stories and
essays. The Ariel also publishes
drawings and photography. Submis-
sions for the next issue of the Ariel
need to be submitted to Carol
Calkin’s office in the University
Center by April 15.

The Washington and Lee Political
Review also comes out twice a year.
The fall/winter issue came out last
week and was filled with varied ar-
ticles concerning political issues, as
is usual for the Review. Unlike other
college reviews, the Review does not
have a certain ideology. However,
the Political Review will have its
first theme for the spring issue of this
year, said co-editor John Pensec. The
other co-editor is Alex Bryant. Ar-
ticles in this issue will concern the
Mock Constitutional Convention and
the surrounding _ bicentennial
celebration, Pensec said. Submis-
sions are accepted from all members
of the W&L community.

The Washington and Lee Journal of
Science is a publication of the W&L
Biology Forum, instead of the Pub-
lications Board. All other campus
publications are supervised by the
Board, which is composed of the
editors and business managers of
these publications. The Pub Board
also decides the budgets of and
supervises each publication to insure
that they are serving the best in-
terests of the W&L community.

The W&L Journal of Science pub-
lishes articles concerning current
science-related topics. All students
and faculty are allowed and urged to
submit articles. One need not be a
science major to participate. The
Journal of Science has not put out an
issue yet this year.

The Calyx, is still working on
schedule, said co-editor Christian
Blessey. The other co-editor of the
Calyx is Roger Reynolds. Last year’s
Calyx came out on schedule, during
orientation week, but the ’85 Calyx
was issued six months late. Blessey
said that they are working with a
staff of fifteen to twenty members
who are “really hard workers.” He
expects that the yearbook to come
out on time this year.

Try advertising
in the Phi

 

 

      

© 1987 AT&T

 

 

WHAT IS THE BEST REASON TO
CHOOSE AT&I?

a) Because AT&T has been providing you with easy
dialing long distance service all along, even if you

didn’t know it.

b) Because it’s easy to spell.

) Because AT&T lets you call any place, any time.

d) Because you can continue to benefit from
AT&T's technological leadership.

e) Because because because because because...
because of the wonderful things he does.

AT&T. Three capital letters and a nifty little ampersand that

you’ve probably never thought about. In fact, you’ve probably never
thought about which company provided your long distance service

at all. You didn’t have to. AT&T has always provided you with

exceptional value, clear connections and reliable, consistent service.
Sometime in the near future, though, your local phone company
will be sending you a ballot, and you're going to have to choose your

long distance company. If you don’t choose, one will be chosen for
you. But it may not be the Right Choice.

So if you want to continue receiving the same outstanding long

distance service you’ve grown accustomed to, look for your ballot
in the mail and return it promptly. And most important, make
sure you've checked the box marked AT&T. (It’s spelled just like

it sounds.)

For more information about AT&T Long Distance Service,

call 1 800 222-0300.

a
—— AN
——__———a.
-—_——2
—<$<<$$—_——
—————
——————aa
—— —
i
AOE IES
=e
nell

Afsl

 

The right choice.

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1987

 

Lax defeats nation’s third ranked team

By DAVID EMRICH
Sports Editor

Last week the Washington and Lee

lacrosse team proved that a drop in

divisional Status can certainly pro
vide a rise in excitement.

They won three times to raise their
record to 4-1.

Given the opportunity to seriously
compete for a national title for the
first time in several years, the
lacrosse team proved that they
belonged at the top of the Division II]
heap with a win over the Ohio
Wesleyan Battling Bishops — the
third ranked team in the Preseason
D-III poll.

Last Thursday’s 12-8 home victory
over the Bishops was keyed by a
number of factors, including senior
goalie John Church's 15 save day and
junior Sandy Harrison's excellent job
in the faceoff circle, but mostly by
the superior team play of the
Generals.

“My feeling is that the team is do-
ing what it needs to win,”’ said head
coach Dennis Daly. ‘We're playing
together as a team, and everyone
feels a part of the goals.

“There is a real sense of team
play,’’ said Daly.

In the first quarter, the Bishops
spent a lot of time in the General’s
defensive zone, but could only score
once, with 8:35 remaining in the
period.

“One of the big points of the
game,” said Daly, ‘‘was that they on-
ly got one goal [in the first quarter]
even though they controlled the ac-
tion

“We controlled them offensively,”
stated Daly.

The score remained 1-0 in favor of
Ohio Wesleyan for nearly eight
minutes until the Bishops were
whistled for slashing. Senior Bill
Garravante cashed in on the extra
man situation to tie the score with
0:49 remaining in the opening
quarter.

“We felt very good at that point,”
said Daly. ‘‘We controlled them in

our end, only allowing them one goal
and then we take the ball down and
score on our first or second shot of
the game.”

The Generals continued handling
the Bishops defensively while at the
same time putting the ball into the
net themselves.

W&L lead widened to 4-1 when
sophomore Neill Redfern scored in
an extra man situation with 4:48 re-
maining in the second quarter, but
Ohio Wesleyan fought back.

The Bishops scored twice before
the half to trim the lead to 4-3, and,
after the goal that put Ohio Wesleyan
within one, Daly decided to call a
time out.

“It was a momentum stopping
time out,’’ said Daly.

“We felt that their last two goals
were our mistakes and we told our
players to calm down and play really
tight.”

“The worst thing that could have
happened,” said Daly, ‘‘was if they
had tied it.”’

“If that had happened we would
have gone into the locker room with
our heads hanging and there would
have been some finger pointing.”

But that was not to be the case as
the General’s Redfern made an ex-
cellent play to widen the Generals
slim lead, and the half ended with
W&L holding onto a 5-3 lead.

‘We got the momentum back right
before the half,’’ said Daly.

The two teams traded goals for
most of the third quarter and the first
third of the fourth quarter when, with
the Generals leading 8-6, Redfern
and junior Robbie Stanton each
scored twice in a three-and-one-half
minute span to put the game away
and claim a position for the Generals
among the D-III elite.

Daly, however, was not so pleased
with yesterday’s 13-10 win over Divi-
sion I Notre Dame.

The Generals fell behind 1-0 in the
first five minutes of the game, but
stormed back to take the lead, 2-1 on
sophomore John Ware’s first of five
goals.

The lead was short lived through,

 

   

ee

 

Sophomore Mike Jones jars

as the Irish tied the score in 55
seconds and continued to score—
putting in four unanswered goals to
build a 6-2 lead with just under 11
minutes to go in the first half.

Making matters worse for W&L,
during this entire time the Generals

couldn’t seem to mount any type of
sustained offensive threat. They
were taking poor shots and weren’t
getting second chances.

“You have to give them [Notre
Dame] credit for their early play,”
said Daly.

vi : oe
the ball loose against Ohio Wesleyan.

“They played tough defense.”

Then the Generals seemed to find
their game a little. They slowed the
tempo down and took their time on of-
fense. The result was two goals
before the half to narrow the Irish
lead to 6-4.

      

¥ fr
ude Yaa
Chie, Ps obede o
FOO les a?
ee | heey

 

= 4 . : . :
we fh WO i
7 te Eb,
+ ae , :
ree 7 gt e Re
+ - oh * . ee
,* * a
. >? Des *
~% iw Pe Ags
% eter. * ”
: =.
ig oe Rk Ar art Cas
ME age ~ . ae
. > ¢
i =¥ai «if ia
3 edits

* =

 

By Perry S. Hayes/The Ring-tum Phi

If they seemed to find their game a
little by the end of the first half, then
they found their emotions for the sec-
ond half.

W&L scored twice in the first

C1 See Lax, page 7

Tennis teams trounce foes; both post important wins

Davidson match called
‘Franke’s biggest win’

 

By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

Okay. Maybe we were a little rough
on the Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team last week. But like a true
great team, the General’s responded
and put together a week that included
a win that was head coach Gary
Franke’s best since his arrival at
W&L.

The Generals went 3-1 over the six-
day stretch with wins over Division II
Slippery Rock (8-1) and Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference member
Emory and Henry (9-0). But it was
Friday’s 5-4 win over Div. I Davidson
that Franke said was ‘‘my biggest
win since I have been at W&L.”’

“Tt was a big match,’’said senior
captain Roby Mize. ‘‘ Davidson came
down to our invitational tournament
in the fall and pretty much cleaned
up.
“The win was a surprise to us as
well as a surprise to them. For coach
Franke, it was probably his biggest
win here.”

Winners for W&L were: Mize at
No. 4 singles; junior Chris Wiman at
No. 5; freshman John Morris at No.
6; and the doubles teams of
sophomore Bobby Matthews and
junior David McLeod at No. 1 and
Wiman and Morris at No. 3.

The Generals’ only loss of the week
came on Saturday against Div. I Fur-
man, 7-2. W&L hoped to score
another big upset with the momen-
tum created by the Davidson victory,

but this time it was not in the cards.

“We were coming off the high of
beating Davidson,’ Mize said, “‘but
Furman was just too tough for us.
There were a couple of three-setters
and the score could have been dif-
ferent, but they handled us pretty
solidly.”

“We are playing well,” said
Franke, ‘‘against some top competi-
tion and even in our losses we have
looked good.”’

There was no surprise on Tuesday
as an overmatched Emory and
Henry posed little problem for the
Generals. W&L has been the ODAC
champion in three of the past four
seasons.

The win also marked the first time
this year that newcomer Robert
Haley has won at No. 1 singles. Ac-
cording to Mize, Haley, a sophomore
transfer from West Point, has not
been able to “‘find his groove.”’

“Haley’s capable of being a
superstar,” Mize said, ‘‘but it’s going
to take some time.

“‘We’ve had that problem [No. 1
singles losing] for the past few years.
It seems that our No. 1 always runs
into a great player on the other
teams.”

VOLLEYS...Matthews, Mize,
McLeod and Wiman all share the top
spot for individual records with 4-2
marks.... The doubles team of
McLeod and Matthews has been
stellar so far in posting a 6-1
record.... The team’s record now
stands at 4-2.

 

 

By Skip Bertram/The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Robert Haley rips a backhand vs. Slippery Rock.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Neill Redfern

By JOHN PACKETT
Staff Reporter

 

Lacrosse attackman Neill
Redfern scored 10 goals and had
three assists in three games, mak-
ing him Washington and Lee’s
Athlete of the Week.

Last week’s effort raised Red-
fern’s season total to 16 goals and
eight assists.

With Redfern’s help, the Gen-
erals beat Notre Dame, Swarth-
more, and Ohio Wesleyan to up
their record to 4-1.

“I was happy with my effort last
week but feel that there are a few
minor areas in which I can im-
prove my play,”’ said Redfern

Last Thursday’s win over Ohio
Wesleyan, who was at the time
third in the nation in Division III,
was a big win for the Generals, ac
cording to Redfern. In that game
Redfern scored five goals and had

k

one assist.

“The win was our biggest so far
and it sets the tone for the rest of
the year,’’ said Redfern.

“The win put us in a good posi-
tion in Division III,”’ said Redfern.

According to Redfern, though
the Generals have played well this
year, they haven't reached their
potential as a team.

“T think we have the ability to
do great things,” said Redfern.

“If we can keep our concentra-
tion we could be 12-1 and have a
good shot at being in the Division
III tournament,”’ said Redfern.

Redfern said that his goal for
the season is to play in the finals of
the Division III tournament.

“T think it would be awesome,”’
said Redfern.

Redfern is a sophomore from
Norfolk, Va. There he attended
Norfolk Academy where he was
captain of the lacrosse and wrestl-
ing teams.

Women surprise Hollins
with 5-4 win; will be without

3 for matchup with Hornets

 

By MARGARET PIMBLETT
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team avenged last year’s 9-0
loss to Hollins College by opening
their 1987 season with a 5-4 victory
Tuesday over Hollins on the road.

Singles winners were sophomores
Dana Anstine and Benny Savage and
freshman Theresa Southard. They
were joined by the doubles pairs of
sophomores Martha Christian and
Valerie Pierson and Southard and
fellow freshman Laura Eggers.

“I’m delighted with the win,”’ said
head coach Bill Washburn. ‘‘Hollins
has always been in the top echelon of
the ODAC.”

Last year’s W&L team wound up
its season with a 1-8 record and ninth
place out of ten teams in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

The team was in its initial season,
with one sophomore player and all
the rest freshmen. This year, nine
players returned with a year of col-
legiate tennis experience under their
skirts.

Five of the top six seeds are

sophomores. First-seeded Bitsy Hop-
per retains her position, followed by
Anstine, Katherine Nelligan,
Southard, Christian and Savage.

Other returning members of the
team are sophomores Courtney
Coyle, Leeann Flood, and Jennifer
Newmark.

Washburn said Tuesday’s win over
Hollins was particulary gratifying
because it showed that the team had
“developed some degree of con-
fidence and experience.”’

“The team showed a certain
amount of determination and gut-
siness,’’ he said.

That gutsiness should help the
team in its match today at Lyn-
chburg, which will be played without
three of the General's top five
players.

Neither Anstine nor Nelligan will
participate because of academic
commitments. Christian has an
ankle injury.

Their positions will most likely be
filled by Eggers, Newmark and one
other member of the team.

Washburn said he expected the
competition from Lynchburg to be
“not as stiff’’ as what the team faced
in the match against Hollins.

Schoettelkotte injured
during baseball’s loss

 

By STUART SHELDON
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Baseball
team travelled to Bridgewater Col-
lege on Tuesday to play the first
game of their Old Dominion Athletic
Conference season. Bridgewater is
the number one seed in the ODAC
this season.

Bridgewater defeated W&L by a
score of 10-3. The Generals’ overall
record fell to 2-4 with the loss, and
their ODAC record stands at 0-1.

Although the Generals lost, head
coach Jeff Stickley said that the 10-3
loss ‘‘really wasn’t that bad. We were
down by one, 4-3, in the sixth. They
put together a lot of hits,’’ and ‘‘we
made some costly defensive errors”
late in the game.

One disadvantage put on the Gen-
erals late in the game was the injury
of Senior pitcher Bill Schoettelkotte,
who damaged his ankle in a close
play at first base.

Schoettelkotte was diagnosed as
having a broken ankle. He will be out
for an indefinite amount of time.

The Generals’ usually strong offen-
sive also faltered late in the game. In
the first five innings, W&L had eight
hits, while the last four innings only
produced two hits. Stickley mention-
ed this as an area needing improve-
ment.

“We need to improve our ability to
put together hits, (concentrate them
in an inning or two) as well as our
ability to hold onto a lead,” he said.

The ability to hold on was also lack-
ing last Saturday, when the Generals
travelled to Christopher-Newport.

Washington and Lee led 4-3 going
into the ninth inning, but a series of
three walks managed to push the
winning run across home plate.

Stickley felt that the pitchers,
Schoettelkotte and Cunningham, ran
into some problems with control that
allowed these walks to occur,

Although the Generals do not sport
a winning record, ‘‘we are by no
means down,” said Stickley. ‘“‘We
need to play more...we are still mov
ing people around”’ in an attempt to
discover their abilities. ‘‘We are get-
ting better,”’ he summarized.
 

Even outdoors, track continues domination

 

By JIM LAKE
Staff Reporter

 

Following right on the heels of a
championship indoor season, the
Washington and Lee track team has

" already won two outdoor meets. In
the first, a dual meet last Saturday at
Wilson Field, the Generals blew

' away Roanoke College, 99-43. In the

. Second, a four-team meet in
Bridgewater Tuesday afternoon, the

' Generals were just as successful,

, Tolling over Bridgewater, Heidelberg
and Eastern Mennonite.

Against Roanoke, W&L won 11 of

, the day’s 17 events and took second
place in 14, giving the Generals more

' than enough points to coast to an easy

_ Victory. In fact, W&L swept five
events, taking all three places in the

: long jump, javelin, shot, pole vault,
and discus.

' The Generals were led by junior
John White, who won the triple jump
and the 400 meters, and by junior An-

‘drew White, who took first place in

, both the 110 and 400-meter hurdles.

In the field events, senior John

' Burlingame won the long jump, and

, Senior Thomas Murray took first

place in the shot put. Sophomore Jim

Ambrosini won the discus, and junior

Joseph Fisher took first in the pole
vault.

* The running events were
highlighted by victories by both of
the Whites, as well as sprinter Wes

a

_ By MIKE SHADY
Assistant Sports Editor

 

 

Spring is finally here and that
means two things, girls in shorts and
’ 18 holes at your local golf course. Un-
, fortunately for the Washington and
Lee golf team, getting in that crucial
time on the links has been somewhat
of a problem.
The Generals placed third out of
‘five teams in yesterday’s round-
robin tournament in Staunton and
18th out of 24 in this past weekend’s
James Madison Spring Invitational.
Not great, but according to head
coach Buck Leslie, all the team needs
is more time on the course in order to
iron out its wrinkles.
“I was pretty pleased,” Leslie
said. “Allin all it wasn’t that bad. We
, just need to get more work in.
“That week [of warm tempera-
tures] was really the only good week
» of work we were able to get in. We
lost another day on Monday because
- of the snow.”’
In the round-robin tournament,
, Which featured only Old Dominion
Athletic Conference teams, W&L was
* led by junior Gary Campbell who

Boyd, who won the 100-meter dash in
11.8 seconds, and the Generals’ 400-
meter relay team, which took first
with a time of 46.1 seconds.

Tuesday afternoon in Harrison-
burg, the Generals scored 80 points,
taking first place in eight events.
Heidelberg College, a Division III
school and a member of the Ohio
Athletic Conference, finished a dis-
tant second with 50 points. “We ran a
really good meet,” said head coach
Norris Aldridge. ‘The times were
really good for a meet this early in
the year.”

Looking at the sprints, “Kevin
Weaver and Wes Boyd both ran well
in the 100 and 200 meters,” said
Aldridge. Boyd took second place in
the 100 with a time of 11.2 seconds,
and Weaver finished in 11.5 seconds
and placed fourth in the same event.
In the 200, Boyd’s time of 23.4 seconds
was good enough for second place,
and Weaver finished right behind
him at 23.8 seconds.

Once again, Andrew White won
both hurdle events. He finished the
110 high hurdles in 15.3 seconds and
the 400 intermediate hurdles in 59.8
seconds. John White took second
place in the 400 meters with a time of
52.3 seconds, his fastest time ever in
that event.

In the distance events, junior
Richard Moore won the 1500 meters
in 4:08, ‘‘one of his faster 1500 times,”’
according to Aldridge. Moore also

shot an 80 (38-42), senior co-captain
Mark Zavatsky (82), junior John
Gammage (83) and sophomore Pete
Coleman (83). The General’s total of
328 was 10 strokes behind winner
Bridgewater and trailed only 2nd-
place Roanoke by three.

The JMU invitational saw W&L
tied for tenth after the first day, but
some shaky play in the second round
cost the team a higher finish.

‘‘We had four players on the verge
of having [second] rounds in the
70’s,” Leslie said. “The course
played awfully tough and a lot of the
teams were coming up from the
warmer weather down South.

“That second day really left a bad
taste in my mouth.”

The reason for Leslie’s displeasure
was the fact the Generals held a
seven-stroke advantage over Lynch-
burg after round one, only to end up a
full ten strokes behind, 658-668, after
round two. W&L, however, did finish
ahead of three other ODAC teams;
Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-Macon
and Bridgewater.

The Generals next match is the
Ferrum Invitational in Ferrum, S.C.
on Friday.

CRAFT PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Special on Pledge Paddles

Open Monday through Saturday 10:00 to 5:00

31 South Main St., Lexington

     
         
  

HIRING TODAY! TOP PAY!
WORK AT HOME

No experience needed.
Write: Cottage Industries

140712 Jenkins
Norman, OK 73069

St. Patrick’s Church Lenten Seminar:

 

om

 

     

won the 5000 meters, finishing with a
time of just over 16 minutes.
Sophomore Jamie Urso took second
in the 800 meters, finishing in just
under two minutes.

“We had some good times on the
track, and we also had some good
performances on the field,’’ said
Aldridge. Once again, Murray won
the shot put, this time with a throw of
over 47 feet. Ambrosini won the
discus with a throw of 1357”, and he
also won the javelin. ‘He picked the
javelin up for the first time [Tues-
day} and threw over 160 feet,”’ said

LAX

 

 

(continued from page 6)

minute of the second half to tie the
score and then rode that momentum
to the win.

“It’s nice to come out of a game
like that with a win because you don’t
feel so bad,” said Daly.

“T guess you could say we won ug-
ly.”

Last Saturday on Wilson Field, the
Generals easily handled Swarthmore
18-2.

W&L put the game away early,
scoring nine goals before the Little
Quakers got on the board, and
leading 14-1 at the half.

Aldridge.

MILEPOSTS:The total scores of
Tuesday’s meet at Bridgewater:
W&L 80, Heidelberg 50, Bridgewater
48, and Eastern Mennonite 3.... Next
week’s meet at Liberty University
has been cancelled. Instead,
Aldridge said that “about 14 or 15
people”’ will make the trip down to
the Hampton University Relays. The
Generals next full meet will be held
Tuesday afternoon at Wilson Field
against Eastern Mennnonite and
Newport News Apprentice College...

“IT was as pleased with the
Swarthmore game as I was with the
Ohio Wesleyan game,” said Daly.

“Ohio Wesleyan showed us what
our capabilities were, and Swarth-
more showed us we could be consis-
tent. Our starters were totally
prepared for the game mentally, and
when the reserves got in, they played
a super game.”

“There was no drop in intensity,”’
said Daly. “No peak for Ohio Wes-
leyan and then a dropoff.

“That’s what made me feel so good
about the game. We played as a
team.

“T can’t say enough about our two
assistants,’ continued Daly. ‘Bill
Pilat and Brian Corrigan are doing a
great job getting the kids ready for
the games.”’

Golf on course, but not as much as Leslie would like

 

 

ks
—-

WA&L Sports Informatio

Senior Mark Zavtsky lines up a putt.

 

A Few Spare Hours? Receive/forward mail from home.

Uncle Sam works hard - you pocket hundreds honestly!

Details,

send self-addressed,

stamped envelope.

BEDUYA, Box 17145, Tucson, AZ 85731.

Seawlc & Sheridan Seshane

Gifts for all occastions

R. Sheridan

PHONE 703-463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

ROUTE 7, BOx 66

703-463-1782

COLLEGE SQLARE SHOPPING CENTER

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

MeRle NORMAN STUDIO

Wolff System Tanning Bed
STUDENT RATES
Ist Session — Free
5 Sessions — $29-60 — $25.00

Selected Jewelry

10 Sessions — $49-00 — $35.00

20 Sessions — $89-00 — $65.00

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1987, Page 7

The First String

by David Emrich
Sports Editor

 

 

 

Tournament time

New division brings
renewed excitement

Guess what. The tournament has dropped into our lives again and,
as usual, it has brought pageantry, hype, and excitement with it.

Now, I must admit, the closest I’ve ever come to the actual tourna-
ment was when it was played in Philadelphia. Then, at least I could
say that I was in the same state as the Final Four.

And, the only time I’ve ever really had enough interest in a team to
follow it throughout the entire tournament was when Villanova won it
all in 1985.

But all this doesn’t mean that I can’t see how exciting it is for the
students of a particular school to have their team participating in the
tournament.

I’ve always wished that I could be a part of one of those rowdy
crowds you always see at Duke or Kansas. The fans there are cheering
for their team. Booing the opposing team. Yelling at the officials.
Generally having a great time.

Well now I may get the opportunity.

This year the University is fielding a team, in a major spectator
sport, that has a legitimate chance to compete for the National Cham-
pionship.

I’m talking about, of course, the lacrosse team.

I know that there have been other teams in W&L’s recent history
that have competed for the National Title, and they have every right to
be proud of themselves, as the University should be proud of them. But
this is the first time in at least five years that one of the more popular
sports has mounted a serious run at the NCAA Championship Tourna-
ment, and people are noticing.

People ask me where the Generals are ranked nationally. When
their next game is. What I think of their chances. There is a genuine
excitement about one of our sports teams.

And, all of this interest was spurred by a long overdue decision made
by the Trustees last spring—the decision to change lacrosse to Divi-
sion III status.

I’m sure most of you know the story, but for the benefit of those
who’ve been living in a cave for the past year, here’s the abridged ver-
sion.

The lacrosse team, which used to be the school’s only Division I pro-
gram, had suffered through four straight losing seasons. The problem,
as almost everyone saw it, was that, without scholarships, the team
just couldn’t compete with the Division I powerhouses anymore.

There were several ways to change the situation, but the only solu-
tion that would have restored W&L to lacrosse prominence without
compromising the academic integrity of the University was the drop
in divisional status. The rest, as they say, is history. Well, maybe not
quite history.

Last year, I think it was Mike Stachura, then Sports Editor of the
Phi, who said, ‘‘A winning program at any level breeds excitement.”’
The change in student’s attitudes brought on by the change in the
classification of W&L lacrosse certainly proves him right.

The difference between this year and last is striking. There are
more fans at the games, and, more importantly, a higher percentage
of those fans are actually there to see the game.

Now, of course I couldn’t prove any of that but I just have a different
feeling about the lacrosse games this year than I did last year. Instead
of looking for bright spots in close General’s losses, I’m seeing the
team win the tight games. Instead of watching people filing out of the
stadium at the half, I’m noticing more and more people sticking
around to watch the fat lady sing.

There is student interest in athletics at W&L, it just took the right
team in the right situation to bring it out. It will be two weeks until the
first regular season Division III poll comes out, and there’s no
guarantee that W&L will even be ranked highly, but just the fact that
we're waiting for it says something.

Like W&L Sports Information Director Mark Mandel said, “It’s
been a long time since anyone around here has been interested in
polls.’’

 

 

 

 

 

Shaffer will lead a seminar on the Catholic
Bishop’s latest pastoral letter, . Economic
Justice For All. This seminar will be a
dialogue on the pastoral and will be held in
three sessions on consecutive Sundays - March
15, 22, and 29 in St. Patrick’s Church from 9:15
to 10:15 a.m. Abreviated copies of the letter
can be picked up in the church vestibule. All
are welcomed.

LENTEN DAILY MASS SCHEDULE

 
  
 
 
 
 
     

The Sandwich Shop

One of the Nine Shops in the
OLD MAIN ST. MALL
appreciates your business.

Try Our Deluxe Italian Hero
only $2.75

ATTENTION

Candy Lovers

FREE CANDY

 

   

FOR ST. PATRICK’S CHURCH TO GO
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
ee er 5:90pm. 12:15 p.m, Old MainSt.Mall 463-2595 = Mon.-Sat. 11-5 p.m.

 

 

 

   

 

 

HERRI

Last Call For
Spring Break!

ins
& kN
mx Y \
ES

For Quality Accommodation
& Dining Call

Quality Insi®

ROUTE 1, BOX 438, RAPHINE, VIRGINIA 24472

Buy Two Bars
At Regular Price
Get a Third Bar
FREE

See us NOW for your

travel fantasies

703-377-2604

Midway between
Lexington & Staunton.
Take exit 54 off I-81

Offer Good through March 27, 1987

  
v
&
a

BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, March 19, 1987

 

Poetics keep up reputation

 

By BRAD SHAW
Special To The Phi

 

Allow me to wax nostalgic. Almost
three years ago, I watched an
obscure little band play in a small
bar to a packed house. It was the first
time I had ever seen or heard of Wax-
ing Poetics, and it was one of the best
live performances by any band that I
had ever seen.

A hefty reputation tends to latch on
to a band that makes such a memora-
ble first impression, and Waxing
Poetics is no exception. They have
proven to audiences all over the East
Coast that when you book the
Poetics, you'll get your money’s
worth. Crowds have been known to
scream for so many encores that the
band had to start playing some songs
for a second time in one night.

Several weeks ago, the Poetics
released their long-awaited debut
album, Hermitage. It would have been
easy for Waxing Poetics to simply
recreate that well-known live at-
mosphere in each song on the new
LP. Instead, with the help of pro-
ducers Mitch Easter and Mike Mills
(of R.E.M.), the Poetics have shaved
down, refined and refurbished eleven
of their own songs to create one of
this year’s best albums.

Easter and Mills have added a lit-
tle something to each song on
Hermitage to make it instrumentally
more complex than its live version.
Tampering with a song that sounds
great live can often result in gaudy,
pretentious trimming, ruining the
band’s reputation. (Just look at the
Alarm) Easter and Mills, however,
have made changes to the Poetic’s
songs that sound as if they should
have been part of the songs all along,
and leave the nuances that tell you
this album in Waxing Poetics the
first time you hear it.

Stallone is just an arm-wrestling Rambo

By MICHABL TUGGLE
Movie Critic

Sylvester Stallone has made quite
a name for himself as Hollywood’s
new tough guy on the block. In the
past decade he has either beaten or
destroyed the world boxing cham-
pion (twice), Mr. T., the Russians,
the Vietnamese, the Germans, and a
small northern town. While it is
doubtful that Stallone will ever reach
the ‘‘stud’”’ status that John Wayne
and Clint Eastwood have attained, he
still gets an E for effort. His new
film, Over The Top, adds the World
Arm Wrestling Championship to the
Conquered list, but unfortunately
does little else. Instead of a rich
movie, all we get is a rehashed rags
to riches Rocky plot involving father
and son.

Stallone portrays Lincoln Hawkes,
a truck driver/arm
wrestler/runaway father. The film

 

   
  
  
   

   

Waterbed. . ea SOR e
Waterbed kits...... $79.99

Night Moods Furniture
3328 Williamson Rd., N.W.
Roanoke, VA 24012

eee

 

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories
Winter
Clearance
continues
23 N. Main St.
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-5988 a

 

 

 

 

 

 

David Middleton's lead vocals
have weathered the transition to
vinyl well throughout the record and
the backing vocals have made a vast
improvement. Paul Tiers shreds his
guitar on most of the songs with
Peter Buck-esque impunity and Bil
Shearin’s drumwork has clearly
stepped out of the shadows. The most
impressive performance is logged in
by Sean Hennessy and his thwapping
bass. The bass line in ‘‘Hermitage’’
drives the song as if it had its own
heart and his plucking on ‘‘Distine-
tion’’ makes your whole body feel
like twitching

The LP captures your attention
from the very beginning. The
acoustic intro to the album’s first
song, ‘“‘Beauty and the Beatitudes”’
explodes into Tiers’ wailing guitar
and you’re hooked. From that point,
the album doesn’t slow down until
“Friday's Child,” then immediately
cranks up again with “Distinction.”
Side two keeps up the pace with
“Walking on Thin Legs,’’ which
reminds one a little of R.E.M.’s ‘‘We
Walk” without sounding anything
like it. Ironically, one of the best
songs on the album is one that few
have heard live. The last song, ‘‘A
Year By Air,” is an excellent, haun-
ting tune that would be at home on
side two of Abbey Road, yet has not
been included in many of the poetic’s
live performances.

Hermitage is an album whose alter-
native sound seems to have gained
acceptance throughout Virginia and
North Carolina and is even appearing
on college radio playlists as far north
as New York. It has been released on
compact disc, and there is even talk
of a video for “If You Knew Sushi.”
All of the recent attention given to
Waxing Poetics has not gone to their
heads, though. I saw them about a
week ago and they still had to play a
few songs twice.

opens as he shows up at his son’s
military school commencement at
the request of the boy’s mother.
Hawke’s left the boy and her when
the child was a baby but has kept in
touch with her over the years and
now obeys her request to make peace
with his son. Standing sternly over
the entire situation is the rich, ar-
rogant grandfather who lives for con-
trol. He loathes Hawkes and has done
everything in his power to keep the
boy seperated from his father since
the time Hawkes left the family.
Plain and simply, what we have is
a simple stock plot with innovative
characters. There is the stern grand-
father trying to control the boy, and
the boy who must choose either to
give his father a second chance, or
reject him. However, there has to be
a pot of gold at the end of the rain-
bow. If indeed, the boy goes with his
father who has virtually nothing,
what will happen to them? Hey, at

CALENDAR

Thursday, March 19

 

 

 

 

3 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. Eastern Mennonite. Smith Field.

7 p.m. — POLITICS FILM: ‘‘Shoot the Piano Player.’’ Room 327, Com-
merce School.
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: “AIDS and Other Sexually Transmitted
Diseases,” Dr. Richard Keeling, University of Virginia. Lee Chapel.
Public invited.

Friday, March 20 :
7:30 p.m. — LECTURE: “Press Responsibility,’’ Louis D. Boccardi,
president, Associated Press. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall. Public in-
vited.
8 p.m, — FILM SOCIETY FILM: “‘And the Ship Sails On.’ Classroom
“*A,” Lewis Hall.

eS ee eee

Saturday, March 21
1 p.m. — MEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. William and Mary. Varsity
Courts.
2 p.m. — OPERA BROADCAST: “‘Carmen.”’ WLUR-FM (91.5).
8 p.m. — FILM SOCIETY FILM: ‘‘And the Ship Sails On.” Classroom
“A,” Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — FAIR CONCERT: The Rockbridge Ballet and Dance Ensem-
ble. Lexington High School.

 

 

 

 

Waxing Poetics, clockwise from left: Middleton, Hennessy,

Shearin and Tiers.

this point in the game, who really
cares? This is a Stallone flick,
remember? If it ain’t
the Russians or the Vietnamese, who
can Stallone single-handedly topple
with one swipe of his greased bicep
this time?

The answer: The World Arm
Wrestling Champion, who else? In
Las Vegas, no less.

Over The Top really tries hard to be
a sincere film about unbreakable
love and the quest for the gold, but
really: haven’t we seen this a million
times before? Perhaps his ‘“‘exper-
tise’”’ in this type of film is what con-
tinually lands him in these roles. Or
maybe it is the frighteningly large
number of faithful who line up at the
box office every time the guy’s name
winds up on the marquee. At any
rate, Over The Top simply does not
say enough to be a worthwhile film.

The cross-country scenery is

 

 

PIZZA SERVED

OR DELIVERED

HERE, TO GO,

 

¢ Try our fresh baked Pan
Pizza, Thin ‘N Crispy”
Pizza, served anytime.

¢ Priazzotm Italian Pie,
served after 4 p.m. Mon.-
Fri., and any time Sat. &
Sun.

« Personal Pan Pizza for
tunch. Available from 13:00
> ami-4:00 pm (Mon.-Fri.).

¢ Plus...Pasta, Salad Bar,
Sandwiches, Beverages.

* Served to your table, or
delivered to your home, or
call ahead and we'll have
your order hot and ready to
go.

¢ Each Wednesday night,
§:30 until 8:30 p.m., all the
salad, pizza, spaghetti, and
garlic bread you can eat for
only $3.49. Children under 6
years-99*.

 

 

 

Pizza
“Hut.

1985 Pizza Hut, Inc

600 E. Nelson St.
Lexington

463-7000

 

 

Monday, March 23
Law classes resume.
3 p.m. — WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Southern Seminary. Var-
sity Courts.

 

Tuesday, March 24

1 p.m. — GOLF: Generals vs. Bridgewater, Hampden-Sydney, Lynch-
burg, Roanoke. Lexington Country Club.

3 p.m. — TRACK AND FIELD: Generals vs. Newport News Appren-
tice, Eastern Mennonite. Wilson Field.

7 & 9 p.m. — JOURNALISM FILM: “Autumn Sonata.” Room |
Reid Hall. :

 

Wednesday, March 25
2- 5:30 p.m. — SYMPOSIUM: “‘Virginia’s Death Penalty Representa-
tion Project.” Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall.
3 p.m. — WOMEN’S TENNIS: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon/
Ashland. Varsity Courts.
3 p.m. — BASEBALL: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney. Smith Field.

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘cn
“aN

  

Thru March 21.
Quantities Limited.

 

FISHING

We've Got The Cure!

Trout Season Specials |

Deen meee... ii ae
OP Bs sis hii castaeoat

~ PIUNTERGHUNTRESS,

 
 
  
 
  

aa?

   

Canvas (eer. =.
Hip Boots.

3,43 i
maar. . a A; ) nee" 3
eet ead fe
Sat Nip Ga Te RPI Ot - ise
r\* wea te a ® ‘ ’
$ ‘ - ,. * ¥

a : 2 gh ’ /

oie . eo
. ‘ ;
— Come see our complete selection

of fishing equipment!!

vee. 82.99
$24.95

 

18 E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-1800
Mon.-Sat. 10-5 Fri. 10-6

 

 

beautiful, and the tournament se-
quences are relatively exciting
(though no one has ever accused
Stallone of making boring films), but
they can’t come close to carrying this
film. If you’re a Stallone fan, see the
film. You probably have already.
However, I’d rather wait for Rambo
111 due this spring.

TUG’STAG «1/2

 

Give a hoot.
Don't pollute.
" Forest Service, U.S.D.A.

eed to
Open 24 Hours
Country Deli

 

BBQ Beef Spare-ribs .. $3.89
For Your Late Night Snacks! Qe
ey

 

 

 

Hoggie Sub
Kahn’s Hot Dogs
Nachos w/cheese

 

sc®

.
Salads Desserts

\
JE" 900 .N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 
