 

 

  

FRIDAY
Edition

Volume LXI

Dr. William Webb Pusey has been

* named Dean of the College at Wash-

ington and Lee University by Pres-
ident Fred C. Cole. Dean Pusey fills
the administrative vacancy created
by the resignation of Leon F. Sensa-
baugh as Dean of the University.
Dr. Pusey is also professor of Ger-
man on the Thomas Ball Founda-
tion and head of the German de-

: _ partment.

The appointment reflects a change
in W&L’s administrative organiza-
tion. Previously, the Dean of the
University directed the College of

 

_ Arts and Sciences and was respon-

«Che Ring-tumn Phi

sible to the president for affairs
of all W&L’s academic divisions.
Dr. Pusey while being the Univer-
sity’s principal academic officer, will
not exercise direct authority over
the deans of the School of Law and
the Schoo! of Commerce.

“Because of W&L’s traditional and
continuing emphasis on the liberal
arts, I think it is appropriate that
the university have a dean devoted
exclusively to this area of learning
and that this officer be a man whose
training and experience stem from
the liberal arts,” President Cole
said.

 

President Cole described Dr. Pusey
as an “eminently qualified” choice
for the college’s deanship.

Dr. Pusey is a scholar of the first
rank, a respected teacher, and a
man of excellent experience in ad-
ministrative matters through his
valuable service on many and varied
faculty committees.” President Cole
said. “By appointing him Dean, we
will not be losing one of our best
teachers, for he will continue to
teach, but I feel that Washington
and Lee will benefit all the more
from his leadership.”

Under the new

 

administrative

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 16, 1960

alignment, Dr. Pusey, commerce
school Dean Lewis W. Adams, and
law school Dean Charles P. Light
will hold equal administrative sta-
tus, a situation “best suited to the
particular needs of Washington and
Lee,” President Cole said. Dr. Pusey,
however, will normally act in the
President’s behalf in his absence.
Dr. Pusey holds a Bachelor’s de-
gree from Haverford College, a
Master’s from Harvard, and his doc-
torate from Colombia University.
His major field of study has been
German impressionism, and he has
also specialized in American-German

 

Dr. Pusey Named New Dean of College

literary relations. He is the author
of two books and numerous reviews
and articles in scholarly journals.
During World War II, he served in
the United States Naval Reserve,
being cited for this work as an in-
terpreter in interrogation of the Ger-
man Naval Command at the end
of the war.

The father of two teen-age daugh-
ters, he has been a member of the
Lexington and Rockbridge county
school boards. He is regional asso-
ciate for Western Virginia of the
American Council of Learned So-
cieties.

FRIDAY
Edition

Number 1

 

W&L Fraternities Pledge 247 Freshmen

 

Mrs. duPont Donates

Half Million Dollar
Fund To University

A fund of more than half a million dollars honoring Thomas
Ball, the late brother of Mrs. Alfred I. duPont, has been
transferred to Washington and Lee University through the
terms of a trust established by Mrs. duPont, President Fred

C. Cole announced today.

Valued at $587,663, the fund will be designated the

*Thomas Ball Scholarship Fund and

 

represents the largest single addi-

By GEORGE HONTS

The 247 members of the Class of
1964 who pledged to W&L’s 18 fra-
ternities marked a decline of 22 from
the number who pledged during the
1959 Rush Week.

Percentage wise, 82 per cent of
the Class of 1963 pledged during
their Rush Week, while only 76
per cent pledged this year.

The immediate reason for the drop,
which halted a four-year period of
increased pledging by freshmen, is

22 Fewer Freshmen Pledge This
Year, Causing 6 Per Cent Drop
From 1959; Names Are Listed

Officials had expected a decline in
fraternity pledging in 1959, accord-
ing to a September, 1959, Ring-tum
Phi article. However, the full impact
of the changing academic and social
scene at W&L was not felt during
that Rush Week.

The loss of revenue from lack of
freshmen boarders in the fraternity
houses last year caused most, if not
all, houses to raise their bills to meet
increased costs. Whether fraternity
bills will rise again this year or
not, remains to be seen. Some treas-
urers have taken the viewpoint that
costs have reached a plateau and

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Sigma Nu
Phi Gamma Delta
Kappa Alpha
Delta Tau Delta
Lambda Chi Alpha....
Kappa Sigma
Beta Theta Pi
Phi Kappa Sigma
Phi Kappa Psi
Delta Upsilon ....
Zeta Beta Tau
Phi Delta Theta ....
Pi Kappa Phi
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Sigma Chi
Pi Kappa Alpha ....

Rush Week Box Score

This is the complet list of fraternities and men pledged by each:

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

  

Dr. Allen Is
First Guest
Lecturer

A professor of American history
at the University of London will be
the first guest lecturer to visit the
Washington and Lee University cam-
pus this year.

Dr. Harry C. Allen, Common-
wealth Fund professor of American
history at University College, Lon-
don, will discuss “The Myth of
American Materialism” in a talk here
Monday, Sept. 19. Dr. Allen will
speak at 8 p.m. in duPont Auditor-
ium.

Dr. Allen came to the United States
for an international conference of
Anglo-American-Canadian historians
who are interested in the Ameri-
can Revolution. The conference was
held in Williamsburg earlier this
month.

An honors graduate of Oxford
University, Dr. Allen has studied
at several American universities. In
1959, he was a member of the Insti-
tute for Advanced Study at Prince-
ton University. He has also been a

Commonwealth Fund Fellow at
Harvard University.
Dr. Allen has studied at Johns

Hopkins University. He was a lec-

turer-in-residence at the University

of Virginia in 1957.

From 1938 until 1945, Dr. Allen
served as a major in the British

Army.

Dr. Allen is the author of several
historical volumes, including Great

Britain and the United States, British

Essays in American History and

 

tion to endowment for scholarship
purposes in Washington and Lee’s
history, President Cole said. In-
come from the fund will be used
“for the education of worthy boys
selected by the university,” ac-
cording to terms of the transfer.

September, 1961

President Cole said he expects
Washington and Lee to grant the
first Thomas Ball Scholarships in
September, 1961.
Mr. Ball, who attended Wash-
ington and Lee’s School of Law in
1902-1903, died May 24 at his home
in San Marino, Cal., near Los An-
geles, where he had practiced law
lince 1906. Born in Jacksboro, Texas,
Mr. Ball grew up in Northumberland
County in Virginia. He attended the
College of William and Mary prior
to enering Washington and Lee.

Deeply Grateful
“This gift, honoring a distinguish-
ed alumnus of Washington and Lee
and the brother of one of its most
devoted friends, adds significantly
to the university’s capability to ex-
tend its educational opportunity to
promising young men who need fi-
nancial assistance to come _ here,”
President Cole declared. “The need
for continued strengthening of our
scholarship program is one of the
matters of greatest significance to
this university, and we are deeply
grateful that Mrs. duPont chose
to help Washington and Lee in such
an important phase of its work.”

Mr. McDowell
Is Bradford

 

not easily discernible. Few frater-
nity men who knew of the drop laid
the reasons at the doorstep of the
new commons or dormitories. Instead
they listed finances, desire for aca-
demic excellence and caution, cau-
tion by the rusher and the rushee,
as the major reasons for fewer
pledges.

It appears that many men will be
going deferred rush. Seventy-six
men are eligible for deferred rush
which will begin four weeks from
now.

SAE Has 22

Sigma Alpha Epsilon gathered the
largest pledge class with 22 fresh-
men going their way. Sigma Nu
pledged the second largest number,
21. Phi Gamma Delta netted 18
men while Delta Tau Delta, Lambda
Chi Alpha and Kappa Alpha each
pledged 17 men. A complete listing
of the number of men pledged to
the houses is made below in the
Rush Week Box Score.
The 247 pledges this year is fewer
than the total which pledged in
1956 and began an upward spiral in
fraternity pledging which ended this
year. In 55, 265 men pledged from
a class which had fewer members
than the Class of 1964.

Little Change
Politically, the University Party
which contains 10 of the campus’s 18
houses pledged 140 men as com-
pared to 107 for the Independents.
The figure shows little change from
last year when the University party
held a 3l-man edge on freshmen.
Last year, Phi Gam and Kappa Sig-

the pledging with 27 and 24 respec-

ma, both Independent Houses, led

will remain at their present level,
temporarily at least. Others do not

Phi Epsilon Pi

 

1959 1960
a
a6 ah
ass0ee 27 18
+ 17
17 17
il 17
24 16
13 15
22 15
14 15
19 13
ae
il il
12 il
15 10
15 8
11 7
(ai caneuaananaie 2 4

 

 

seem so optimistic.
Nevertheless, those who have
pledged will soon begin the annual
round of introductory dances and
mixers at the neighboring women
colleges. Many Minks will be going
“over the hill” Saturday night as
actives and pledges set out to get to
know each other.

Listed below are the names of
the freshmen and transfer students
who pledged during Rush Week.

Beta Theta Pi— 16
George Craddock Craig Crockard,
Whit Fitzpatrick, Martin Galt, John
Ganong, Jeames Haley, Phillip
Lemon, Stanley Leydig, John Madi-
son, John Mendell, William Ogilvie,
Richard Roberts, John Roy, Bill
Rugg, William Wilkinson.

Delta Tau Delta—17

Ken Brandenburg, John Bridge-
forth, Joe Burkart, W. C. Erickson,
George Freeman, Brice Gamber, G.
W. Grossman, K. E. Jansen, Bruce
Lawton, John McDaniel, John Mich-
aelson, John Pearsons, S. Wesley
Pipes, Cotton Rawls, Fred Schaf-
fer Stephen Walsh, Eric Wilson.

Delta Upsilon—13

W. Dan Bell, Robert L. Cafferata,
Richard C. Colton, Robert Y. Foers-
ter, Paul A. Gilbert, H. Warren
Holden, John C. Lundy, John Mc-
Coy, Bruce W. Moss, Peter K. Noo-
nan, Douglas M. Powers, Samuel B.
Preston, Richard A. Litkenhans.

Kappa Alpha—17
D. C. Black, UI, A. E. Broadus,

 

tively.

 

T. M. Brumby, IV, P. M. Candler,
WL. Cawden, Jr. it. S. Croft, IH,
P. R. Farnsworth, Jr., K. E. Greer,
R. W. Henley, Jr., F. H. Jones, W. H.
Kidd, III, J. H. Morrison, III, H. P.
Smith, W. D. Suggs, III, M. G.
Thompson, G. M. Underhill, Jr., J.
E. Wilkerson.

Kappa Sigma—16
Benjamin Low Chapman, Richard
Ray Cruse, John Marion Dean, Jr.,
William Hall Fitz, Thomas Tyler
Goar, William Munroe Gotten, Rich-
ard Charles Heard, Bill Haywood
Kinsey, Henry Dumesnill Ormsby,
III, Thomas Synder Pace, Jr., Rob-
ert Dean Smith, II], Richard Atkins
Sult, Jr.. Herman Gordon Taylor,
William Melton Wallace, Jr., John
Walter Watts, III.

Lambda Chi Alpha—17
Alonze Atkins, Robert B. Barganz,
David M. Barr, Bruce T. Chosney,
John M. Dixon, Alfred E. Ekes,
Lynn R. Hammond, Scott R. Hard-
wick, Jay Jacot, E. Raymond Kid-
well, John F. Lackey, Thomas C.
Lewis, Richard W. McEnally, Dennis
R. Morgan, Robert C. Mettley, Don-
ald Palmer, William B. Petty.

Phi Delta Theta—11
James Cassidy, John McDowell,
George C. Wick, William Noonan,
Robert Carlson, Charles Gaines, Ran-
dy Wooten, Augustus Walton, Ken-
neth Lane, Mickey Bright, Roveet
Karn.

Phi Epsilon Pi—4
Alvin Hutzler, Mike Levin, Kenny
Rozenzwug, John Sarnet.

Pi Kappa Alpha—7

Breck Alexander, Robert Edward
Lee, James Strawbridge Maffitt,
Clarence Vaughan Nalley, Consider
Willett Ross, George Thomas Sisler,
Richard Taylor Spencer.

Pi Kappa Phi—i1
Philip S. E. Booth, Frederick Wil-
liam Boye, Allan John Brinton,
Frederick E. Cooper, Joseph Rich-
ard Couch, Timothy Walter Dols,
Robert Cloudman Farrar, Bruce
Thompson Houghton, Charles Daw-
son Kimbell, Walter Edward Steves,
Paul Freeman Van Avery.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—22
Roger Ear] Allen, Jr., John William
Baker, A. J. Barranco, Jr., Sydney
Johnston Butler, Harry Preston Hen-
shaw, Smith Hickenlooper, John
Michale Jenkins, Harvey Ellis Jones,
Donald B. McFall, Sidney Walton
Maurras, Edward Mower Norton,
Fred Miller Ridolphi, UI, Henry
Moseley Sackett, III, Charles Brit-
ton Savage, Michael Wollman Shef-
fey, Jo Cowin Tartt, Peter Dowie
Trelogan, Jerome Turner, Samuel
Gwathmeny Tyler, Ernest Williams,
Jack Yarbrough, Jr.

Sigma—Chi—8
Bob Aylin, Jim Dunlap, Bob Ken-
nedy, Butch Kroos, George Paul,
George Priggen, Sonny Rayder, Rex
Wooldridge.

Sigma Nu—21
John Frederick Bartlett, Robert
Hall Brewer, Lester McLure Foote,
Thomas Robbins Green, Michael

 

 

 

 

 

| Bush and Backwoods. His latest Harrison, William Bradbury Hnkley
— | book, published this year, is entitled L P f : 7 : Hig
| The pena ect arly allteteg aw ro essor Fil Gamma Delte—I6 ee a eee
R. I. H. Belser, R. N. Bright, E. p.| Crawford Humphreys, Karl Kroeger,
. Professor Charles R. McDowell, a Browning, J. W. Clark, C. J. Clark Harry Landsiedel, Hollie Irwin
Record Number Of Dance | member of the Washington and Lee iil, W. &, Resex, dr, J. D, Bure, Jr, oe Sees Lanier Neal, Rabert
; University law faculty since 1927, T. Gardner Je. W. P. Ho kins J enry Powell, William McClure
Set Plans Have Been Sold has been named Bradford Professor H. Kirkley, J. B. eter’ D. Mc-| Schildt, Nicholas Ray Simmons,
D oe in we : of Law, according to Charles P. Dowell, W. H. Martin, dr, J. d. Jim T. Sylvester, Anthony James
ance Board president Jimmy | right, Dean of the School of Law. Smith, Jr, W. L Walker, Samuel Gwathmeny Walker,
Vann reports today that more dance th, Jr., . Van Dyke, J. :
a es — sold this year His appointment to the endowed Volpe. Pennington H. Way, Frank W.
em on hin : chair is effective immediately. Wright, Norman Edgar Youngblood.
A total of 820 plans have been ech teen — held by : ro uaheeseacy gay ; Sigma Phi Epsilon—10
sold to Washington and Lee stu-| Professor Clay ton Williams until his Peter H. Alford, David W. Britt, ; ;
a deste on few: Lash your nestle 70 retirement this year as Dean of the Ernest D. Levering, Walter L. Mc- Richard Winston Cooke, Christo-
ae plans had been sold after the first School of Law. Manus, Albert Tom Owen, Charles pher T. Conyers, Jr., Jere Davies
three months of the semester. Professor McDowell, who received C. Owen, James N. Powers, Judson eggs ——— sonar sane
Vann save thet the plans ere a| his LLB. degree from Yale Univer- P. Reis, James C. Smith, Burton| David Blalock Harrison, William
tremendous saving to students who| sity in 1924, has served on the Wash- Staniar, Spencer Stouffer, James N. England Pardington, Albert : M.
plan to attend the dance sets. The| ington and Lee law faculty contin- Wearn, Jesse F. Williams, John T, Taneye, | Bruce werwiek muder,
a oc Gt cat Gee wously since 1927, except for three Winebrenner, Hughston G. Wright, Thomas Edward Thielocke, Hobart
student to enter all of the dance| years duty with the U.S. Navy be- Jr. wee.
: sets and concerts. Without the plans| tween 1942 and 1945. | Phi Kappa Sigma—15 Zeta Beta Tau—I1
each dance cost $5, and each con-| He received his B.A. degree from | David J. Andre, Robert A. Bolen,| Jay Caplan, Nick Cohen, Richard
cert, $10. Centre College in 1915 and his M.A. | Austin Bray, Daniel J. Crumlish,| Coplan, Brian Dorsk, Barry Greene
7 Vann also urged the remaining| from Columbia University in 1920. Edward H. Hollman, Charles G.| David Hyman, John Raphael Bill
\ students to buy a dance plan, say~ He also holds a Doctor of Law de- Johnson, Lewis McNeace, Bruce R.| Solmson, Peter Trager, Jim Wallen-
ing that the additional revenue will] gree. = | MacDonald, William H. Marmion,) stein, Stuart Yoffe.
v4 make it possible to secure better| The endowed chair is named for | Jim Mell, Allan G. Paterson, Scott} Most of the formal pledge cer
a and more famous dance bands for| Vincent L. Bradford, a Washington | Dr. Fred C, Cole, president of Washington and Lee, addresses the opening | P. Pearce, Leslie C. Rucker, Wil-| monies will oa aie wate grr ae
and Lee benefactor. day convocation held last Wednesday. —Photo by Renshaw ! liam P. Tedards, John W. Wescoat.! and will include a pledge banquet,

the W&L sets.
Page 2
Che KRing-tum Phi
Negative Thinking

(Editor’s note: The following editorial appeared in the
Friday, Sept. 9, 1960 edition of The Washington Post)

“Despite efforts to ignore or to stifle it, the religious issue
remains a major factor in the current political campaign.” So
begins a statement issued by a group of Protestant clergymen
and laymen which styles itself the National Conference of
Citizens for Religious Freedom. These churchmen themselves
do not appear to have taken any part in the efforts to ignore
or stifle the religious issue. On the contrary, the Conference
is representing it as the dominant issue in the campaign.

The argument advanced by the conference amounts to this:
Because the Roman Catholic Church is a political as well as a
religious organization of its communicants, a President of the
United States who professed Catholicism might be subject to
the discipline or pressure of the Church’s hierarchy. This is a
kind of lace curtain anti-Catholicism which is at least more ra-
tional than some of the fundamental fears being circulated by
the Know Nothings.

The error of this argument seems to us to lie in its assump-
tion that John Kennedy is a priest rather than an ordinary
layman, that he is a member of the Church hierarchy commit-
ted to the advancement of its doctrines rather than an American
who happens to worship God in accordance with the Roman
Catholic ritual and who is committed to the advancement of
democratic doctrines. Mr. Kennedy has stated plainly and un-
equivocally that he is not governed by the Church in political
and other affairs. There is no more reason to believe that his
course as a public official would be dictated by the tenents of
the Church hierarchy on, say, birth control or censorship than
there is to impute to a man who worships with the Society of
Friends the tenents of faith on, say, disarmament and defense.

In light of the fact that its leader is the Rev. Norman Vin-
cent Peal, the Conference of Citizens for Religious Freedoms is
offering, we think, a curious example of the power of negative
thinking. It professes to be in favor of the separation of church
and state; but it is doing its utmost to inject the consideration of
religion into politics of the Nation. It professes to be in favor
of religious freedom; but it argues that if a man belongs to a
particular church he is not free to become President of the
United States.

In a country which has said as a part of its fundamental
law that “no religious test shall ever be required as a qualifica-
tion to any office or public trust,” would it not be a good idea
to judge candidates for the Presidency exclusively on their past
political performance, their political programs and their capaci-
ties for leadership?

Reality And Challenge

The spirit of the class of 1964 is a reality. The way in which
they as students of this university meet the demands of a good
education will differ widely from those who have been a part
of Washington and Lee’s past. They are witnesses to the pres-
sure of their times upon the educational complex in general
and W&L in particular.

“The challenge of the sixties” is a slogan rapidly becoming
a cliche. Yet, when related to the life of this college, its context
seems justified. The coming decade is a challenge to Washing-
ton and Lee in every phase of university life. The academic
and social life of this school is undergoing an accelerating trans-
ition to meet this challenge. An administration of modern
ideas and a heritage of cherished ideals has fused into a pro-
gressive policy of high education. The provocative “status quo”
no longer restricts the element of change, and progress is synon-
ymous with Cole.

To you the class of 1964 the challenge is directed. How you
meet it as men of Washington and Lee and as individuals will
play a strong part in determining the future of this university.

 

In Memoriam

Washington and Lee deeply feels the loss of two of its
beloved instructors. Charles Harrington was at home on the ath-
letic field and in the hearts of those who knew him. His con-
tribution to this university and to its ideals was paramount.

Ralph Dufhe provided that extra element of dedication that
became very much a part of the military instruction of the
college. But even more his warm personality and contributions
to the athletic department as chauffeur and supporter leave a
vacuum in our university family.

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

Practicing Lawyer To Be
W&L Lecturer On Torts

A practicing attorney in Lexington
has been appointed lecturer-on-torts
for the first semester in the School
of Law at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

The appointment of William O.
Roberts, Jr., 37, was announced to-
day by Law School Dean Charles
P. Light.

The new lecturer received his
LL.B. degree in 1958 from Washing-
ton and Lee. He was graduated
magna cum laude. He has been on

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878. . =

National Advertising pagronsminive:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Managet............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board

Managing Editor............. piasorge Honts

   
   
 

 

Assistant Managing Editor................... : . 3 :
ae assosessonnnses ney, Goodwin the physical education staff at Vir-

News Editor.... Andy Nea a ots : :

Sports Editor... ‘Bil Outman | ginia Military Institute since 1946.

Associate Editor. ..Tom_ Rains Roberts, who is a member of the

a ef! eee ee Tom Jordan (Continued on page 4)

Photography Editor..Clarence Renshaw

THE RING-TUM PHI

Six men have been added to the
Washington and Lee University
faculty.

Their appointments were effective
September 1. The additions involve
the department of history, fine arts,
religion, English and military sci-
ence and tactics.

The new men include: Dr. Cecil O,
Smith, Jr., 28, assistant professor of
history; Dr. Cecil B. Jones, 30, as-
sistant professor of fine arts; Lewis
Wendell Hodges, 27, assistant pro-
fessor of religion; William W. Chaf-
fin, 29, instructor in speech; Jack
B. Moore, 27, instructor in English;
and Capt. George W. Miller, 31,
assistant professor of military sci-
ence and tactics.

Dr. Smith, a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, received his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees in history from Harvard
University in 1956 and 1959, respec-
tively. He received his B.A. degree
from Wofford College in 1955. In
1957-58, Dr. Smith did research for
his doctorate in France under a
French Government Fellowship.
This past year he was an instructor
in humanities at Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology.

Dr. Jones, who is a native of
Nashville, Tenn., received his B.A.
degree from Vanderbilt University
in 1951. He received his M.A. in the
Theater from Northwestern Uni-
versity in 1952. He was awarded his
Ph.D. in 1951 from the University
of Illinois. Dr. Jones has been a
member of the fine arts faculty at
Lamar State College in Beaumont,
Tex., for the past two years.

A graduate of Duke University in
North Carolina, Hodges comes to
Washington and Lee from a gradu-
ate assistanship there. He has been
working on his Ph.D. at Duke. He is
a 1954 graduate of Millsape College
in Jackson, Miss., where he received
his B.A.

Chaffin, who has his B.A. and
M.A. degrees from the University of
Richmond, is currently a teaching
associate at the University of Indi-
ana. He is working on his Ph.D.
there. He has taught at several pre-
paratory schools in Maryland and
Virginia. He has also been a part
time faculty member at the Univer-
sity of Virginia and Madison Col-
lege.

Moore joins the Washington and
Lee faculty after spending a year as
a graduate assistant at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, where he
was doing research for his Ph.D. He
taught at the University of Vir-
ginia from 1956 until 1958. He re-
ceived his B.A. from Drew Univer-
sity and his M.A. from Columbia
University.

Capt. Miller is a graduate of the
U.S. Military Academy at West
Point, N. Y. He comes to Washing-
ton and Lee’s Reserve Officer Train-
ing Corps unit from the Officers’
Advanced School at Ft. Benning, Ga.
He is assigned to the Army Infan-
try.

Two Return
Two Washington and Lee Univer-
sity professors have returned to their
teaching posts after two-year leaves
of absence.
Dr. Edward D. Myers, chairman of

Thirteen New Men
Join W&L Faculty

 

 

the university’s department of phil-|
osophy, and Thomas E. Ennis, Jr., |
assistant professor of accounting, |
resumed their teaching duties when |
Washington and Lee began its 212th |
academic year September 14.

Dr. Myers has been in Bonn, Ger- |
many, for the past two years as/
cultural attache for the United States |
Information Agency in the West |
German Federal Republic. He serv-
ed in the American Embassy there.

Prof. Ennis has been studying at)
the University of Michigan under al
Ford Foundation grant. He has been |
working on his Ph.D. degree at!
Michigan. His first year at Michi-
gan, Prof. Ennis studied on a South-
ern Regional Fellowship.

Dr. Myers, who aided world his-
torian Dr. Arnold Toynbee in his
writing of “A Study of History,”
joined the Washington and Lee fac-
ulty in 1949. Prof. Ennis came to
the university in 1955.

Also added to the faculty were
seven men whose appointments were
announced last May in the Finals
Edition of the Ring-tum Phi. These
men are Dr. James S. Patty, 35, as-
sociate professor of Romance lan-
guages; Dr. Cecil D. Eby, Jr, 33,
assistant professor of English; Doug-
las T. Day, 28, instructor in Eng-
lish; James Boatwright, III, 27, in-
structor in English; David B. Dick-
ens, 27, instructor in German; Clar-
ence E. Roberts, 24, instructor in
geology; and H. Gordon Williams,
Jr., 27, instructor in mathematics.

President Cole
Names Two
As Assistants

President Fred C. Cole has named
two members of the Washington and
Lee administrative staff to newly
created positions of assistants to the
President.

James W. Whitehead, 38, has he-
come assistant to the president for
administration, and Frank A. Par-
sons, 32, has become assistant to the
president for institutional research.
Their appointments were effective
Sept. 1.

Whitehead will continue as direc-
tor of university relations, and Par-
sons will continue as director of in-
formation services.

President Cole said Whitehead will
gradually assume administrative re-
sponsibility for business affairs of
the university except those directly
related to the office of the univer-
sity treasurer.

 

Fact-gatherer

Parsons will assist the President in
a program of continuous study and
fact-gathering concerning all phases
of the university’s operation, Pres-
ident Cole said.

Whitehead joined the Washington
and Lee staff in May, 1958, and since
then has been involved primarily in
the direction of the University De-
velopment Program for new science
and journalism facilities.

Parsons, a 1954 graduate of Wash-

(Continued on page 4)

 

day session,

 

A group of freshmen at Freshman Camp are shown here listening to one |
of the many speeches given. Some 318 W&L freshmen attended the three-
—Photo by Renshaw!

|

   

i

 

|
|

 

 

Dr. Winter Royston examines the new IBM machines with J. Baine Fox
who is the university’s new supervisor of statistical records and in charge

of the machines.

—Photo by Renshaw

IBM Machines Making
Record Keeping Easter

Many Washington and Lee stu-
dents were surprised to find during
registration that the familiar pink
schedule slips have been replaced
with a new white and efficient look-
ing slip. The reason for the change
is due to the installation of several
International Business Machines.

Installation of the new machines—
six in all, each performing a dif-
ferent function—was completed
shortly before registration began,
according to J. Baine Fox, 23, the
university’s new supervisor of sta-
tistical records and the man in charge
of the new machines.

The first application of the data
processing equipment came on Sept.
10 when some _ 1,200 Washington
and Lee students began matricula-
tion. The IBM equipment was ex-
pected to simplify certain registra-
tion procedures.

The new machines have been added
to university operations to increase
clerical efficiency and accuracy, ac-
cording to President Fred C. Cole.

Leased from IBM

Leased from International Busi-
ness Machines, the data processing
equipment will be used initially for
student registration and then gradu-
ally applied to other university ad-
ministrative functions.

Registration was chosen first be-
cause it is a repetitive process and

 

a good test for the new equipment.

Information concerning students’
ages, academic classes, grades, course
sections, home addresses, parents’
names and other pertinent facts will
be recorded on specially-prepared
cards for use in the IBM equipment.
The machines will in turn interpret
the information on the cards and
produce the information on forms for
use by faculty, administrative officers
and students.

Once the data processing system
is cleared of “bugs” or operational
problems, plans call for application
of the machines to records now
used by Washington and Lee’s Alum-
ni and development offices. Special
reports may also be prepared by
the machines in the future. Flexibil-
ity of the equipment allows for
such additional work requirements,
Fox says.

Planning Began Last May

Planning for the installation of
the IBM data processing equipment
began last May at the suggestion of
President Cole. A preliminary study
of the university’s records and cler-
ical problems was made and the
present equipment recommended.

Fox, who operated similar equip-
ment for the Shell Oil Company in
New Orleans, came to Washington
and Lee in late June to begin a de-
tailed study of the proposed opera-
tion. He then designed the necessary
cards and forms for the university’s
new equipment.

 

Water Bombs, Inflation, And
Rush Week Greet Irving Gilch

By TOM LUTHY

Irving Gilch hopped off the bus
and trudged quickly up the hill,
bearing his footlocker on his back.
After several near accidents with
some semi’s on Route 60, he found
his way to the scenic, fire-proof
freshman dormitory.

“What a swell place to spend my
first year at college,” thought Irving
as he ducked a speedily descending
water bomb thrown from a _ third
floor window facing the quad.

Irving peeked into his spacious
room on the fourth floor and marv-
eled at the beautiful view of the
world’s longest footbridge which
could be seen from his single win-
dow. The first person he met was
Light Horse Harry, one of the friend-
ly custodians, who immediately
conned him into purchasing a $10
lamp. “I wonder if the Co-Op has
better prices?” mused Irving.

He donned some Ivy League garb
for fear of being assimilated, and
rushed over to the Student Union to
see about signing up for Freshman
Camp. A nice old man met him at
the door and handed him a fresh-
man list for the name game at camp.
Irving winced as the old boy pinned
the name tag on his shirt, for the
pin had severed his proudest posses-
sion, a singleton hair on his chest
which he had been cultivating for
the drop-the-hanky contests at
camp. “The fellows will never like
me now,” lamented poor Irving.

However, Irving soon was feeling

 

better as he and several other frosh

shot the bull over a pitcher of beer
at Doe’s. Irving had noticed a sign
reading “Relief is just a swallow
away” above Doc’s door and wond-
ered if Doc was receiving financial
aid from the Alka-Seltzer Company.
“How silly to imagine such a thing!”
thought Irving when he remembered
that all subsidization on the W&L
campus went with the winning ath-
letic teams. Unwittingly Irving and
his newly acquired buddies made
it to Doe’s door without paying for
their brew. They were swiftly appre-
hended by Frances the Talking
Waitress, who forced them to cough
up the correct amount of change.
“That sure was lucky,” sighed Irving,
“I almost violated the Honor System
without even attending my first
class.”

Somehow Irving struggled through
the first few weeks of school and at
last felt in the swing of things. He
chuckled to himself as he grabbed
two six-packs of Country Club, re-
membering what the brothers had
told him at one of the frat lodges
during Rush Week, “Take two,
they’re small.”

“This certainly is a wonderful
university,” reflected Irving, now on
his sixth lager, “I wonder if they'll
let me go to Freshman Camp again
next year?”

 

NOTICE

The Assimilation Committee will
hold its regular meeting Tuesday

at 7 p.m. in the Student Union
: ide...

 

 

 

 

 

paca ale sonenay Peuwe 29 961 -ate>

 

 

RABIES SHOT

d=

Q SH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"on

asian

 

e
 

id

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Tennis Tournament To Begin Next Weekend

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cc ach Washburn pressed the hope that all men i can of balls for his next match. that player shall be considered as| will be considered as having de-| court priority except as they con-
° had not received a letter or anum-| (3) Each match must be played| having defaulted. Should both play-| faulted . flict with the intramural tennis
To Head Contest eral and who plan to try out for the| by the specified date posted. Should| ers fail to report and the match not} (4) All matches will be the best| schedule. (Note: Two courts are
varsity squad will participate. The| one player fail to report for the| be posted by 7 p.m. of the final} two out of three sets. available even during the intramur-
The University Fall Tennis Tour-| freshman are especially urged to en-| match at a previously agreed time,| date for that match, the entire match} (5) Tournament matches will have | al schedule.)
nament will get underway right ter this contest. 1 ie ce yf en ey nny ames RN TTT
away according to tennis coach, im This year Thomas Ltd. will award {fp \
Washburn. Play is expected to be-| 4 trophy to the winner. Rocky Gaut,
gin Friday, September 23, and Var-| jact year’s winner, was a graduating
sity Captain, Billy McWilliams, ex-| .onior, leaving a wide open scramble
for a winner and the trophy.
Offer Special Price Eligibility =
On VMI Games Here All W&L students of both Aca-
demic and Law schools who have
The VMI Athletic Department has] not received either a Varsity letter
offered to W&L faculty and stu-|or freshman numeral are eligible,
dents a special offer of $1.50 for] and if interested in playing in the
each ticket to games that are played| tournament should cut out the en- =
on W&L’s Wilson Field. The first] try blank below, complete the form S G od
game is on October 1 with the Uni-| and turn it in to the Alumni Office, i? porting O S
versity of Richmond, and the other| bottom floor of Washington Hall. [|
will be on November 5 against Le-| Telephone entries can be made by
high. Anyone interested in securing | calling HO 3-3414. Deadline for en- , G l h
tickets for these games must get| tries is 4 p.m. Wednesday, Septem- ym C ot es
them at the VMI Athletic Office by| ber 21st.
4 p.m. Thursday during the week of] Drawings will be posted by noon
the games. Tickets at this price will September 22 on the gymnasium
not be sold at the gate. bulletin board and play may begin
immediately. Complete Camera Dept.
Golf Deadline Sept. 21 (1) Each Player is responsible for
All students interested in trying contacting his opponent to arrange
out for the W&L golf team should| to Play the match.
check with coach Cy Twombly by| (2) Each player will purchase one G ft
Wednesday, Sept. 21. This includes| can of tennis balls, with the winner 1its
freshmen and upperclassmen. of the match retaining the unused
SNORT SE.ANE Toys—Novelties
s—Novel
1960 W&L FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT 7
(Please Print)
FRRIG!  asniiiisesisrnncnct sae ni isenniesutieneiauarineensitias .
es ee ae College Gifts
(Freshman) (Sophomore) (Junior) (Senior) (Law)
Tay ih PONNNED) ce iin: tae eee as
Dorm Room No. Phone
Mail or bring this entry blank to W. C. Washburn, Alumni Office, Skii >
Washington fal ung Equipment
All entries must be in by 4 p.m., Wednesday, Sept. 21st.
Sportswear
Best in the book for ~«
air travel...
=
Welcome freshmen—come in and open your charge account
eget ne noth .
serves the Top of the South wit W | b k Id d d
fast frequent flights . . . offers connecting e come ac 0 stu ents come in an use yours
_._ Service to all parts of the world. Call Piedmont .
Airlines or your Travel Agent for reservations, information.
14 W. Washington Street
SOUTHERN PINES
: L
... Along the Route of the Pacemakers (\S J
© 00000000000000000 00000000 0000000000000000000000 000000000 lee e CeCe CeCe eee eC OOOO CLO O OOOO OOOO COCO OOOO OCLC COCO COCO OOOCCS 0000000080000 0000000C00 00S
$5.0990000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000900000000000000000000000000000000 000000000000 0000 00 EONS OOOO EONOONOSNSOOOO00R8
ae ee
oe Men’s Suits and Jackets thoughtfully tailored for the most exciting 23
ee : ; ‘ ee
ee fit in carefully selected imported fabrics and patterns ee
$8 $8
ee SWEATERS Hopsacks—T weeds—W hipcords—Flannels—Corduroys TOPCOATS ee
ee . ee
heviots—Shetlands
38 “os ani C WOOL SLACKS ee
te Ab d taste wl ! oe
ee TWEED CAPS oast to your good taste when you wear one: REPP TIES 38
$3 Th 3
ee WOOL SOCKS é VESTED SUITS oe
$3 WV $5
ee KHAKIS op BAY RUM ee
a ee
oe FELT HATS ll ad , OXFORD SHIRTS ee
se We cordially invite you to stop in to select your clothing and shoes where you +4
oe ; ‘ ‘ as
3 WALLETS will find the same friendly atmosphere that prevails on the campus of W&L RAINCOATS oe
se
ee :
ee UMBRELLAS Also, Complete Formal Wear and Accessories W&L BUTTONS se
ee
ee ee
36 UNIVERSITY CREST JOCKEY UNDERWEAR 33
$3 ENGLISH CORDOVANS y im ILLOV 33
S2 CORDOVAN 4 Gh i) f PULLOVER SPORTSHIRTS +4
ee 4 UOT LIGA | ee
a ee
ee e Rae) hse | ee
ee ee
ae ee
ee ee
oe se
eocecesescoccsoossessosee
sSossssssesssssssssssseeeessssesseesssssssssesssssssssssssessssssssccessssssssessccssssss sessssessccscsessssssscesssssssccessessssccccceseecscccccecs
Page 4

University Exhibiting
Art Collection Loaned
By Guggenheim Museum

A group of paintings on loan from
the Solomon R. Guggenheim Mu-
seum in New York will be placed on
display this week in Washington
and Lee University’s year-old dining
hall.

The paintings are scheduled to
hang for six months, according to
Dr. Marion Junkin, chairman of the
university’s department of fine arts.

With Prints

The display of the Guggenheim
collection will coincide with the
exhibition of a group of Italian mod-
ern prints in the duPont Gallery on
the Washington and Lee campus.

Both displays were ready in time
for the beginning of Washington and
Lee’s 212th academic year this

 

Notices

There will be a meeting at 8
p.m. Monday, Sept. 19, for all
freshmen who are interested in
working on the staff of the Ring-
tum Phi.

All students who have not yet
picked up their 1960 Calyx may do
so on Tuesday Sept. 20, from 2-5
p.m. in the basement of the student
union.

There will be a meeting of all up-
perclassmen who are members of
the business and editorial staffs of
the Calyx on Tuesday, Sept. 20 at
5 p.m. in the Student Union.

There will be a reception for all
students interested in working with
the Troubadour Theatre this year, on
Wednesday, Sept. 21, at 7:30 p.m.,
in the theatre.

 

Lecturer On Torts

(Continued from page 2)
Virginia Bar Association, received
his B. A. degree from Springfield
College. He is a native of Champlain,
N.Y.

During World War II Roberts serv-

 

week. The Guggenheim collection,
for which the university has been
waiting for more than two years,
will hang in the east parlor of the
Letitia Pate Evans dining hall.

The New York display will in-
clude the painting of such people as
Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Al-
bert Gleizes, Harry Bertoia and
others.

One of 15

Washington and Lee’s extended
loan from the Guggenheim is one
of 15 to American colleges and uni-
versities. These exhibits are being
sent out by the Solomon R. Guggen-
heim Museum as a part of a pro-
gram of extended loans to areas
where good examples of contempor-
ary arts by pioneering artists of the
twentieth century are not readily
available to the public.

Displays were begun in the Evans
dining hall last year in an effort
to acquaint the whole student body
with art, and the displays are open
to the public.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Rowe Is Assistant
(Continued from page 2)

ington and Lee, became director of
the university’s information serv-
ices in September, 1954. Before join-
ing the staff at Washington and Lee,
Parsons was employed by the Clifton
Forge Daily Review as editor fol-
lowing his graduation.

Rowe Named

President Cole also named A.
Prescott Rowe to the position of
Assistant Director of Information
Services this summer. His appoint-
ment was effective immediately.

A June graduate of Washington
and Lee, Rowe will assist Frank A.
Parsons, Director of Information
Services, in university relations.

Rowe, 22, a native of Fredericks-
burg, Va., is a former employee of
the Fredericksburg Free-Lance Star
where he was a news reporter. While
a student at Washington and Lee, he
served as editor of the Ring-tum
Phi, and as a member of the Publi-
cations Board. He was also a Fresh-
man Dormitory Counselor and held
a Robert E. Lee Scholarship. He
holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in
Journalism.

Rowe is also a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, a national honorary
leadership fraternity which was
founded at Washington and Lee.

 

she he he he ale Mele le he he he he che the te the he a hehe he che th

 

ts ate ite ate ate he Mette tere
7eererrerre Fe

 

Se Be Be Be Be Se Ste Be Be Se St, Ste Se St We Se Se Be Be Be Ge Be We Be Be Se He Be Be Me te he he she she he ha a he ie Ma Be Be Ba
OE EE EE EE EE SS Se SS eS Se Se ee ee ee ee Se Se eS

she teats
Pee ee OO Oe CT eC eee Tee Oe

SHIRTS DONE
THE WAY YOU LIKE THEM

Fine Cleaning

and Pressing
ey
Your Campus Neighbors
*k

University Cleaners

CHARGE ACCOUNTS INVITED

he ate she the she ae ale he ale ale he ae he he ae he he ae he he Ne he Ba he Ma he Be Ma Me Be Ba Ba Ba te Be Ba te te te Bate te te the te ite
LL EE ES EE SE Se Se ee eS ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DIXON'S

Esso Service Center

 

ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the new White Top Restaurant

HO 3-4214

 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS

+

 

 

Wash
Grease

Lube
Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

 

 

 

 

he the he she he he he ale te he he he he ha he ace
7

ate te he tee
Oe ee ee ee errr

he ste she ahs ate he he he te he he he he he he a le he he he te te Be ee
eee

ee eee eee

 

 

Announcing:

=

5

UOUUUUUVOONUOAVEOUUUEOASUEEUAEUAUEAAOEEEAUUAUEAAAN AAA

Chomas, Lt.

(Successor to Earl N. Levitt, Lexington)

Fine Clothing, Shoes, Formal Wear
Bass Weejuns, Baracuta Rainwear

Charge Accounts Welcome

TOM BAKER, Keeper of the Tweeds
Class ’55

UUVAUUVUGUOUUOAUNUOGUOOGUOGUEOUGEUGUOAAE AYE

Te

I
