 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 21, 1961

Number 44

 

 

 

El Pauling and his Royal Rockers, who will perform along with the Five Royals at the spring cocktail party
to be given in honor of Spring Dance president Bill Outman. The group will play from 4-6 on the afternoon

Deadlines Set

 

of April 14, in Red Square.

Five Royals, New York Group,
_ To Play At Spring Cocktail Party

By RICHARD CRUSE

The “fabulous” Five Royals will
play for the Spring Dance cock-
tail party to be held April 14 in
honor of the president of the dance
set, Bill Outman.

Bo DuBose, PiKA from Atlanta,
Ga., and vice-president in charge
of the cocktail party for Outman,
said today that the Five Royals
have been contracted for the party
to be held in Red Square Friday,
April 14, from 4-6 p.m.

DuBose told the Ring-tum Phi to-
day that the singing group will be
backed by El Pauling and his “Royal
Rockers” Orchestra.

Both groups, he said, were con-
tracted through Universal Attrac-
tions in New York City.

DuBose believes that the cocktail
party and Spring Dances will be a
great success, and that the week-
end as a whole will be one of the
more memorable events in recent
years at Washington and Lee.

Mahan, History Contests Nearing End

By HAL McCLANAHAN

Deadlines for the Mahan Awards
and the Virginia Colonial History
Essays have been set for April 3
and May 25 respectively. By these
dates students participating in the
Mahan Awards contest must turn
in a typewritten copy of their work
to Dr. A. R. Borden, Jr., of the
English Department; students enter-
ing the Virginia Historical Essay
contest, must submit their essays to
Dr. C. W. Turner, W&L chairman
of the contest.

At present, four students have
signed up for the history essay
contest; and several more people
have said that they would like to
enter, but have not chosen a topic
yet. The following students have
already chosen their subjects: Tom
Dols, “Eastern State Mental Hospi-
tal”; William Patty, “Virginia Colon-
ial Post Office”; James Camel,
“Colonial Episcopal Church,” and
Jack Wilson, “History of the Waller
Family.”

In last year’s history essay com-
petition Charles Via, a Kappa Sig,
won the Cincinnati Society’s campus
award of $50; and Joe Smith won
the Virginia Colonial Dames’ state-
wide prize of $200 with his essay,
“Colonial Tobacco Regulation in
Virginia.” He was the fourth man
in nine years from W&L to win
the Colonial Dames’ contest.

As in the past, the essays must
be at least 4000 words with foot-
notes and bibliography. The theme,
which can be submitted for both
historical contests, must be on an
original topic dealing with some
aspect of Virginia colonial and mil-
itary history. Some suggested topics
are “Dale’s Codes,” “Virginia Min-
ute Men,” “Governor Berkley and
Reform.”

‘Heads Or Tails’
Goes To Hollins

Dave Lefkowitz, president of
SWMSFC, has announced that the
musical Heads or Tails will make a
road trip to Hollins April 21 to give
a performance there. Lefkowitz feels
that the road trip, which has been
approved by both the Hollins and
W&L administrations, will be quite
successful, partially because of the
promised support of the Roanoke
Chapter of W&L alumni.

As the audience will be composed
of both W&L alumni and Hollins
students, there will be two prices
for tickets: $2.00 for alumni and $1.25
for students.

John Refo, Sigma Chi sophomore,
and Bill McWilliams, Phi Delt sen-
ior, will serve as managers for the
road trip.

Lefkowitz added that arrange-
ments to have the musical go to
Lynchburg are currently underway
with the Randolph-Macon adminis-
tration. The possible date for the
’Macon trip is April 19.

Tickets for the show perfor-
mances to be held in the Troub
Theater April 10 through April 15
are on sale now in the W&L Co-op.

 

 

 

Dr. Turner made the following
comment on the participation in the
contest: “Not only are more stu-
dents entering the contest than ever
before, but they are also choosing
entirely different topics. I am very
pleased with the number of con-
testants so far, and I hope that some
more students will sign up.”

The 1959-60 Mahan Awards, which
consisted of four prose and one
poetry award of $100 toward tuition
or $60 in cash, were presented to
two freshmen, two sophomores, and
one junior. Stephen Henry won the
freshman prose award with his
story, “So Dark the Shadow,” while
Mac McClung and Scott Iacone won
the sophomore prose division with
their stories, “The Weakness” and
“The Man with the Gray Flannel
Head.” Malcolm Brownlee, a prose
winner in his freshman year, won
the junior prose division with his
story, “The Hunters and Me.” Ches-
ter White, a freshman, won the poetry
division with his series of poems,
“Reflections.”

The prose selections, which must
be pledged and contain at least 1500
words, can be short stories, literary
criticisms, biographical studies, one-
act or longer plays, or informal
essays. A bibliography, and footnotes
must be used in a literary criticism,
and no purely factual prose will be
accepted.

All entries in the poetry division

 

ROTC Review

Lt. Col. Jeffrey G. Smith, Com-
mandant at Virginia Military Insti-
tute, will review the Washington
and Lee cadet corps at 4:45 tomor-
row afternoon.

Tomorrow’s activities will mark
his second visit to the W&L campus
within the past ten days, as he
spoke to the International Relations
Club last week on the subject of
the functions of the United Nation’s
Commission in Korea.

 

must contain a minimum of 30 lines,
and the work can be one or more
selections.

Ordinarily two prose awards are
given to freshmen, one to a soph-
omore, and one to a junior with
the poetry category left open to all
three classes. An award will not
be given in a class, however, if the
material does not meet a standard of
excellence set by the English de-
partment. The award may be shift-
ed from their classes but no more
than five can be given in a year.

“There have been more inquiries
this year by more students, which
we of the English Department are
glad to see.” Dr. Borden, head of

 

the English department, went on to
point out, however, that they will
not know exactly what students are
competing since everyone has to
use a pen-name.

Anyone who is interested in enter-
ing the Mahan Awards competition
of the Virginia Colonial History Es-
says should contact either Dr. Bor-
den or Dr. Turner as soon as pos-
sible.

The winners of the literary contest
will be announced in either late
April or early May, and the names
of the Mahan Awards winners and
the history essay winners will be
given in the commencement exer-
cises.

 

duPont Radio-Television Awards
Announced Monday; Morgan
Receives Individual Recognition

Television station KDKA-TV of
Pittsburgh, radio station WAVZ of
New Haven, Conn., and American
Broadcasting Company commenta-
tor Edward P. Morgan were an-
nounced yesterday as 1960 winners
of the Alfred I. duPont Radio and
Television Awards.

President Fred C. Cole of Wash-
ington and Lee University, chair-
man of the Foundation’s awards
committee, said leaders of the radio
and television industries will join in
honoring the winners in a formal
presentation of awards in Washing-
ton, D.C., on March 24.

The event will mark the 19th year
that the duPont Foundation has
singled out stations and individuals
for “excellence in broadcasting in
the public interest and meritorious
service to the American people.”

For WAVZ, it is the second time
the New Haven 1000-watt station
has won the duPont Award given to
stations of relatively smaller broad-

 

Tucker Law Lectures Scheduled,
Prettyman To Speak Next Month

The Honorable E. Barrett Pretty-
man, formerly chief judge of the
United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia circuit, will
deliver the 1961 Tucker Lectures
in Lee Chapel on April 21 and 22.

In his lectures, two of which will
be given on Friday the 21st at noon
and 8 p.m. respectively, and one at
noon on Saturday, Judge Prettyman
will talk on “Some Modern Prob-
lems in Criminal Law Concerning
the Indigent, the Juvenile, and the
Incompetent.”

Born in Lexington, Va., in 1891,
Judge Prettyman took his M.A. de-
gree in 1911 from Randolph-Macon
College. In 1915 he received his LL.B.
from Georgetown University, where
he later earned his LL.D. in 1946. In
his judicial career Judge Prettyman
has served as a special attorney
to the Revenue Department from
1919-1920 and again as a general

 

counsel to the Bureau of Internal
Revenue from 1933-1934: He has
served with the law firms of Potter,
Prettyman, and Fisher, Hopwell, Va.,

1909-1917; Butler, Lamb, Foster, and | “m

Pope, Chicago and Washington,
D.C., 1920-1933; and Hewes, Pretty-
man and Owalt, Washington, D.C.,
and Hartford, Conn., 1936-1945. In
1945 he became a judge of the United
States Court of Appeals. He was a
professor of taxation at the George-
town University Law School and
has served as chairman of the Pres-
ident’s Conference on Administra-
tive Procedures.

Judge Prettyman will be the 13th
person to speak for the Tucker Law
Lectures. The first lecture was
delivered in 1949 by the Honorable
John W. Davis, a member of the
New York Bar and Law Class of
1895. The John Randolph Tucker
Lectures are delivered annually and
published in bound form.

 

casting power. WAVZ won first in
1950.

The award for KDKA-TV is the
first television division of the Pitts-
burgh station of the Westinghouse
Broadcasting Company, although
KDKA radio was the 1945 winner
among stations of relatively larger
power.

The commentator award for Mor-
gan is the veteran radio and tele-
vision newsman’s first duPont rec-
ognition.

Winners will receive engrossed
plaques and checks for $1,000 at
the annual awards banquet on March
24 at Washington’s Mayflower Hotel.

A panel of five judges, including
Mrs. Jessie Ball duPont, who es-
tablished the awards in 1942 in
memory of her late husband, Alfred
I. duPont, selected the winners from
nominations submitted by the broad-
casting industry and the general
public. In addition to President
Cole and Mrs. duPont, the judges’
panel included Mrs. E. Lee Ozbirn,
president of the General Federa-
tion of Women’s Clubs; Clifford J.
Durr, Montgomery, Ala., attorney
and former member of the Federal
Communications Commission; and
W. McNeill Lowry, director of the
Ford Foundation’s program in the
Humanities and Arts.

The judges cited KDKA-TV for
anagement policies which seek to
enlarge the station’s understand-
ing of the interest, activities, and
needs of the community and region
served, as well as for a responsible
programming policy resulting in a
wide variety of cultural, scientific,
editorial, educational, and public af-
fairs programs, superior in produc-
tion quality, and often broadcast at
prime time.”

WRVZ was praised for “active and
helpful participation in the political,
economic, and cultural life of the
community, resulting in editorial in-
vestigation and advocacy, aggressive
reporting of public affairs, and such
meritorious projects as the series
of programs designed to acquaint
young people with the problems of
young people in other lands.

 

The Five Royals have recorded
such hits as “Think,” “Please, Please,
Please,” and “It’s Just What I
What.” They have recorded on the
King label for the past few years,
but their latest record has been re-
leased on the Old Towne label.

The group has appeared on a
number of rock and roll shows
over the past few years, and has rec-
ords listed on the “Top Ten Hits”
poll a number of times.

DuBose said that gin and juice
will be served at the party and
that the mixture will be “potent”.

Outman, a junior at the PiKA
house and a resident of Bethesda,
Md., was this year selected in
the ODK elections. He was chosen
president of the Spring Dance in
last year’s campus elections.

The dance bands for the week-
end have not been announced as
yet, but James Vann, president of
the Dance Board, said that all ar-
rangements should be completed by

 

the time the students return from
the holidays.

The theme of this year’s dance
will be “Shangri-La.” President
Outman feels that the decorations
are coming along ahead of schedule
and that plans for the set are pro-
gressing in a suitable fashion.

 

Notices

Tickets for the Spring Musical,
“Heads or Tails” are now on sale
in the Co-op. For the week im-
mediately after Spring vacation
the price will be raised by fifty
cents per ticket. All door tickets
will be $2.50.

There will be a meeting of the
Assimilation Committee tonight at
7 p.m. in the Student Union.

This is the last week during
which graduation invitations may
be purchased. They may be bought
in the co-op each afternoon.

New Zealand Debate Team
Meets Buice And Shepherd

Two outstanding New Zealand
debaters will join a Washington and
Lee University team here tonight
to debate the assertion “That Amer-
ica needs more men like Robinson
Crusoe.”

The debate is scheduled for 8 p.m.
in duPont Auditorium.

James Hugh Cassidy Larsen and
Hector Charles MacNeill, graduate
students at Victoria University of
Wellington, New Zealand, are rep-
resenting their university on a tour
of the United States, under the
auspices of the Institute of Interna-
tional Education in New York.

One of the debaters from “down
under” will join W&L’s William
Buice, a SAE senior from Charlotte,
N.C., on the affirmative side and
the other will argue the negative
with Robert Shepherd, a senior law
student from Richmond.

Larsen and MacNeill both are in-
terested in law and politics. Larsen
holds a B.A. degree and a LL.B.
and presently is studying account-
ing. McNeill holds a M.A. degree
and is taking the final examinations
for a LL.B. degree.

The New Zealanders are exper-

 

ienced debaters. Both have partici-
pated in the inter-university Joynt
Scroll Debate Teams meets. Mac-
Neill has won the Union Prize for
the best University Debater, Larsen
has five years of debating experience
at the university and in community
debating clubs.

Buice captured seventh place
among 64 debaters in the recent Mi-
ami University (Ohio) Invitational
Debate Tournament. Shepherd is a
member of the university’s Law
School Moot Court team. Richard
Kelly, a Pi Phi junior from Balti-
more, Md., and John Lackey a
Richmond, Ky., Lambda Chi fresh-
man, also represented the university
at the meet.

The Washington and Lee debaters
have compiled an impressive rec-
ord this season. They captured the
state championship in the annual
Tau Kappa Alpha tournament in
November. At recent Temple Uni-
vesity competition two debate teams
compiled 4-0 and 2-2 records in
debates with leading Eastern uni-
versities.

William W. Chaffin, an instruc-
tor in English, is the debate team
coach.

 

Alumnus Donates $25,000 Grant
For Recognition Of W&L Faculty

A Washington and Lee University
alumnus has made an initial gift of
$25,000 to the university to be used
to reward and stimulate excellence
in teaching among faculty members,
President Fred C. Cole announced
Sunday.

The gift is the first of four such
benefactions totaling $100,000, which
James H. Clark of Dallas, Texas,
will make to Washington and Lee
over a four-year period, President
Cole said.

In accordance with Mr. Clark’s
wishes, President Cole said the uni-
versity will use the funds to in-
crease salaries of “those faculty
members who possess distinguished
records of teaching service in Wash-
ington and Lee’s classrooms and
laboratories.”

“It is Mr. Clark’s wish that his
gift not only serve as measure of
recognition for past service, but that
it help create added incentive for
Washington and Lee professors to
develop still further their talents
and abilities as teachers of under-
graduates,” President Cole declared.

President Cole said the first salary
increments from the Clark fund will
be made for the 1961-62 school year.

“It is especially significant that
Mr. Clark recognizes the vital need
for Washington and Lee and higher
education in general to provide
proper compensation for its teach-
ers,” President Cole said. “His gen-
erous support enables Washington
and Lee to make further progress in
its continuing program for improv-
ing faculty salaries. We are deeply
indebted to Mr. Clark, not only
for the monetary value of his gift,
but for the encouragement and in-
centive it brings to our faculty.”

President Cole said Washington

 

and Lee will continue to seek im-
provements in its salary levels un-
til its teachers “can expect the same
range of compensation that is open
to similarly qualified and similarly
trained men in government, busi-
ness and industry.”

“In some degree, the role of the
scholar who is a dedicated teacher
has not been given proper recogni-
tion in the last few years,” President
Cole pointed out. “Mr. Clark and I
agree that economic considerations
should not deter scholars of highest
qualifications from devoting their
time and attention to the signifi-
cant and formative years of educa-
tional development of our young
people.”

Clark, a Dallas businessman and
corporate executive, attended Wash-
ington and Lee from 1927 to 1929.

 

Lexington Lawyers Take
Bench At Student Trials

Ten Rockbridge County and Lex-
ington attorneys, including Town
Mayor Paul A. Holstein, will sit in
the judge’s seat at Washington and
Lee University’s Moot Court Room
this week to hear oral arguments by
freshmen law students.

The courtroom activities, part of
the instruction program in_ the
course on brief making and oral

arguments for freshmen, will last
five days.
Each local attorney will act as

chief judge in the hearing of an
appelate case. Two senior law stu-
dents will act as associate judges
in each case.
Besides Holstein, other lawyers
taking part will be Charles S. Glas-
(Continued on page 4)
Page Z

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

THE HONOR SYSTEM EXPLAINED

We as editors of the Washington and Lee University news-
paper feel that it is incumbent upon us to present a clear ex-
planation of the spirit, the procedure and the mechanics of our
Honor System. In light of current controversy as to the nature
of the system we feel that such an explanation is warranted to
eliminate any misunderstanding on the part of the student body
at large.

First, may we make it clear that our comments do not
necessarily represent the opinion of the Executive Committee
of the Student Body upon which we sit. Our obligation to this
University as editors of the University paper demands that we
present, in good faith, our arguments for the validity of the
present system.

Washington and Lee’s Honor System is not a detailed code;
it is not a formalized set of rules and regulations, nor a series of
prohobitions leveled at specific areas of student life. Rather it
embodies a massive spirit of honor—a spirit which is not forti-
fied by codification. However, there are necessarily certain
basic principals with which the spirit of this system is associ-
ated—namely, that lying, cheating, stealing and failing to
report a suspected violation are negations of this spirit.

Before we begin a detailed explanation of our sys-
tem, we feel that it is necessary to eliminate a possible
ambiguity in the student’s mind resulting from a con-
fusion of terms. First, it should be understood that the
Executive Committee does not “prosecute” an alleged
offender of the Honor System. Rather, an Executive
Committee trial is an attempt to uncover evidence per-
taining to the “‘guilt” or “innocence” of the individual
involved, and to arrive at a decision based upon this evi-
dence. To obtain this evidence it is necessary to question
both the witnesses and the accused.

The decision arrived at by the Executive Committee after
the admission of evidence is in no way final. For, if the accused
feels that there has been a miscarriage of justice, he has every
right to a public trial (the procedure for which will be ex-
plained below). This right of appeal must be waived by the

accused before the Executive Committee’s decision is consid-

ered final.

Purpose

The Honor System assumes that every student is a gentle-
man and requires that he shall act honorably in all phases of
student life. Lying, cheating, stealing or knowing of and failing
to report a suspected Honor System offense are infringements
of the Honor System. The result of a conviction in such cases
is dishonorable dismissable from the University. The written
pledge in classes on quizzes, examinations, written problems,
and exercises is a symbol connoting that the work which the
student hands to his professor is his own, which he himself has
done in accordance with the requirements of the course as laid
down by the professor. The written pledge is as follows: “On
my honor I have neither given nor received aid on this exami-
nation.” The faculty will cooperate in establishing a clear un-
derstanding of these requirements.

In any case of doubt as to the nature and/or extent of a
pledge the student should immediately request that the pro-
fessor in charge make the requirements perfectly clear to the
entire class. The pledge should be regarded as a reminder of
the trust reposed on the individual student; however, it should
be noted that the written pledge is not essential to bring the
individual within the obligations of the Honor System.

The Honor System requires in the second place that, when
a student sees another student in suspicious circumstances, he
shall further observe the matter, requesting another individ-
ual (s) to act as witness (s), and if they find evidence of guilt,
to notify a member of the Executive Committee. It is impera-
tive that everyone recognizes this duty of protecting the Hon-
or System and the student body. He who accepts the benefits
of the Honor System is morally bound to report any suspected
violations. This can in no way be construed as spying or tale-
bearing. It is the finest expression of loyalty to a cherished tra-
dition of honor among a community of self-governing students.

If a student leaves the University to avoid facing the Honor
Trial, jurisdiction is retained by the student body to investigate
the case, and, after making every effort to induce the suspect
to return and face the charges, to report to the proper dean
and to the Registrar that such absent student is not entitled
to an honorable dismissal, if his guilt is determined.

One of the greatest dangers to which an Honor System
can be exposed is that of being ‘“‘overloaded.”’ To avoid this,
and preserve inviolate a precious heritage, it is essential that
the Honor System shall concern itself solely with those offenses
which are classified as dishonorable by the public opinion of
the student generation involved. Hence there must be many
things, reprehensible and heartily condemned by the Executive
Committee and all good citizens, which still cannot be brought
under the Honor System. Numerous examples could be cited
but it is sufficient to mention a few such as sexual immorality,
breaches of administrative regulations, and failure to pay honest

debts.’

New students especially should take every opportunity of
acquainting themselves with the working of the Honor Sys-
tem in detail, as well as these general principles. The Executive
Committee will cooperate with anyone making such inquiry.

Procedure

The following is an analysis of the procedure followed by
the Executive Committee in investigating and trying an alleged
honor violation.

When an alleged violation is reported to a member of the
Executive Committee, the President of the Student Body
in the company of the investigators and the committeeman
thoroughly investigates the circumstances surrounding the
suspected violation. Should this group feel that there is suf-
ficient evidence of a possible honor violation, the President of
the Student Body shall immediately refer the case to the
Executive Committee.

If the Executive Committee feels that there is sufficient
evidence of an Honor System violation to justify a trial, they
may by a majority vote of the standing committee vote to go
to trial. This empowers the President of the Student Body to
present the accused an opition of voluntarily withdrawing from
the University before facing trial. Accompanying the President
are a member or members of the Executive Committee selected
by him and, where possible, known to the accused. The Presi-
dent advises the accused of his rights and warns him of the
consequences of conviction by the Honor Court.

After the President and the accompanying members have
answered those questions to which they can in propriety re-
ply, the accused shall be given two hours to decide whether
to stand trial or take the option.

If the accused elects to withdraw from the University,
rather than face trial by the Honor Court, he is required to
sign a statement witnessed by two members of the Executive
Committee, forfeiting his right to a trial and his right of appeal
to the Student Body in public trial.

However, if the accused elects to stand trial, he is placed
in an ante-room and the questioning of witnesses begins.

We feel that the maintaining of secrecy in every as-
pect of trial procedure is of the utmost importance to
insure the maximum protection of both the witnesses
and the accused. Also, unless the accused requests to
face his accuser(s), they will remain unknown to him.

During the initial phase of questioning before the Honor
Court, the accused and/or witnesses are questioned only by the
investigators and the President. Upon the termination of this
initial round of questioning, each individual is escorted back
to the ante-room and informal discussion may follow the ini-
tial round pertaining to certain points in the case.

All testimony is given before the Committee except in
cases of extreme inconvenience. This stipulation includes mem-
bers of the faculty, administration and out of town residents.

Subsequent to the initial phase of the questioning by the
Honor Court, an individual is questioned by members of the
Committee pending recognition by the president. The presi-
dent for good cause may allow or disallow their particular
questions.

After thorough questioning, both of the accused and all
witnesses, there follows an informal discussion of the points
in the case. If it is apparent that nothing further can be gained
from questioning the individual involved in the case, and if
there is no further discussion desired by the committee, the
president calls for a summary of the trial.

At this time he appoints two members of the committee
who will, in turn, summarize evidence pointing to the guilt
and innocence, respectively, of the accused. The president then
declares a brief intermission during which time, the resume of
pertinent facts and law bearing on the case is prepared. Special
pains are taken to set forth an unbiased summary of the
evidence.

After the presentation of these summaries, the president
presents further instructions to the committee if he deems it
necessary. There is no discussion as to the guilt or innocence
of the accused after the presentation of the summaries of the
trial prior to the vote by secret ballot.

In the event that two-thirds of the members of the standing
committee vote guilty, the accused is found guilty of a breach
of the Honor System.

Following the taking of the ballot, the president pro-
nounces the verdict of the committee. If the vote is guilty, there
is no appeal to the court in regard to the committee’s decision,
but the convicted person has the option of resigning from the
university at once, or demanding a public trial by a jury

 

 
 

ITS RATHER
FRIGHTENING TO
SEE THE DAYS GO
BY SO FAST..

   
    

TD SAV THAT GRASS IS GREEN ,
YOU KNOW, |S NOT SAVING NEARLY
ENOUGH,..ACTUALLY, IA VERY
GRATEFUL FOR HAVING NATURALLY
CURLY HAIR...1 REALLY AM...

  

 

    

 

 

 

 

SOMETIMES MY DADDY CALLS ME
LADYBUG" ..I USED TO READ A
LOT, BUT LATELY I JUST DON'T
SEEM TO HAVE TIME...

FRIEDA SITS BEHIND MME IN
SCHOOL... HAVEN'T HEARD A
WORD OUR TEACHER HAS SAID
| THIS WHOLE SEMESTER! —_|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

chosen from members of the student body above the freshman
class. If he elects to resign, he signs the aforementioned waiver
of a public trial. He remains under the purisdiction of the
Executive Committee and is accompanied by a minimum of
two members of the committee until his departure from the
town of Lexington no later than twenty-four hours after his
conviction. Strict secrecy is maintained to assure his protection.

Public Trials

The following is the procedure for public trial:

In a public trial, the President of the Student Body or such
other member of the Student Body as he shall appoint, with
the consent of the Executive Committee, shall act as judge.
The judge may request the presence of a member of the faculty
or of the Student Body to sit with him for the purposes of as-
sisting him in the conduct of the trial.

The secretary of the Student Body shall act as Clerk of
Court; the Sheriff shall be appointed by the President from
the Student Body; there shall be two prosecuting attorneys
chosen by the Executive Committee from the Law School;
the accused shall have the privilege of two attorneys chosen
by him from the Student Body.

The procedure shall be substantially similar to that in
criminal cases in the State Courts of Virginia, freed from tech-
nicalities, and strict rules of evidence shall not prevail. On
questions of evidence, the decisions of the judge shall be final,
but previous sworn testimony, recorded or otherwise, shall be
freely admitted.

No person shall be put upon public trial for a suspected
Honor System violation unless a complaint in writing shall have
first been served upon him by the Executive Committee.

The person to be judge of public trial shall set the date and
the place for the trial. He will make such announcements and
orders as may seem proper. The trial shall in no wise be set
for a date later than 15 days after service of the complaint
upon the accused, day of service, Sundays, and legal holidays
excluded.

The judge shall order a jury to be chosen from the mem-
bers of the Student Body above the freshman class. Fifty
names shall be chosen by the Registrar, by lot, from a list of all
students in good standing above the freshman class. This shall
be done by the Registrar, or someone in his office not connect-
ed with the accused or the two prosecutors, and in the presence
of two senior students of the University selected by the judge.
The names of the jurors shall be listed as they are drawn and
the list shall be signed by the person who drew the names, the
two senior students, to the effect that they have complied with
the procedure herein. The list shall contain the class, major,
fraternity, and home address of those persons chosen. The list
shall be given to the Clerk of the Court.

From the list of 50 students, the first 20 shall constitute the
panel, from which the prosecutor may strike four and the ac-
cused four, and the remaining 12 shall constitute the jury for
the trial. Striking shall be done alternately, beginning with the
prosecutor. No other challenges shall be allowed except for
cause. The judge shall determine a challenge for cause. If less
than eight be striken off the panel, 12 of those remaining there-
on shall be selected by lot and shall constitute the jury. If the
panel is reduced by challenges to less than 12 the pane! shall
be replaced from the remaining 30 students in the order in
which they appear on the list.

A witness in an honor system case shall be obligated to at-
tend upon being summoned by either the prosecutor or the
accused. The Sheriff shall be responsible for summoning
witnesses.

The accused may be sworn and examined in his own behalf,
and if so sworn and examined, he shall be deemed to have
waived his privilege of not giving evidence against himself, and
shall be subject to cross examination as any other witness;
but his failure to testify shall create no presumption against
him, nor be commented upon before the judge or jury by
the prosecutor.

On public trial of a suspected Honor System offense be-
fore any evidence on either side, counsel for prosecution and
for the accused, respectively, shall have the right to make an
opening statement of their case to the jury.

In case of conviction in the trial, the convicted man shall
be officially advised by the President of the Student Body to
withdraw at once from the University.

If any student to whom an oath is given on any occasion
willfully swears falsely on such occasion touching any material
matter or thing, he shall be guilty of perjury and the Honor
System violation of lying.

Contempt of court shall consist of misbehavior in the pres-
ence of the court; the judge may refer such cases of contempt
to the Executive Committee which shall have power to recom-
mend to the Administration such punishment as the Execu-
tive Committee may deem necessary for such misbehavior.

There shall be no appeal from the decision of a trial by
jury of an honor system conviction and the decision rendered
shall be final.

It has been our purpose to outline what we feel to be the
essentials of Washington and Lee’s Honor System. At a later
date, we will analyze the relative merits of this procedure. Let
it suffice for us to say at this time that the principle of honor
and the procedure discussed above are the necessary and prac-
tical ramifications of a spirit of honor at Washington and Lee.

Rosewell Page, III, Nathan P. B. Simpson
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

comer

 

Carpenter throws batting practice in preparation for Friday’s game.

Generals Face Dartmouth,
Hit South For Spring Trip

Washington and Lee’s baseball
team opens what its coach calls “the
toughest schedule in the South”
here March 24 against Dartmouth,
the Ivy League’s defending cham-
pion.

But Coach Lyles isn’t particularly
worried. In fact he is looking for
an improvement over last year’s 3-16
record.

Lyles, who has been pleased
with the team’s showing in two
intra-squad games, plans to pick
his regular line-up during W&L’s
annual “spring training trip.”

On this trip during the annual
college spring vacation, the Gen-
erals meet Elon, East Carolina,
and North Carolina State, and play
Fort Gordon, Ga., three times.

Besides the spring trip, W&L
has eight games with Southern Con-
ference teams, and eight games
with teams of the Mason-Dixon

Qeecooressreoereeerrerrrs

: IDEAL
* BARBER SHOP

: QUICK SERVICE

-
“le

4
Werke rfeofe re ne ofe fe she ne ofonfe she ofende ole ale oho ofe she ae ole shee

 

Se he he Ye Bese Bo Bede
a ee le ie ie ae

 

"are

Conference.

The Generals will be strong down
the middle with returning lettermen
at all key positions. Jim Russ is
catcher, Park Gilmore at second
base, captain Ned Hobbs at short-
stop and Robin Wood in center-
field.

Lettermen Roy Carpenter and
Phil Sharp, who won all of W&L’s
games last year, head a strong
General Mound staff. Both are
righthanders.

Three freshmen lefties give depth
to the pitching corps. Brice Gamber,
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

le Me Be Me Be Be Be te Ba Se Be Be Be Be Be Me Ba Ba Be Be Ba Be Be Be Be Be Be Bo Be Be Be Be te Be Be Me Be le Be Be Be Ue Bo Be ee

 

Be Me ste ae te Sa Me Me Me Be Be te Be Ba Ba tte Ba Be Ba Be te Bare Shade Be Ba te a tte te Be Bete
Bl la lh ee he a he a ae ee he ie le ee ae

EE Se TE eT Tee eeeeerrrrrrrrrrrrrrere eee

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

k
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

othe Be she Be ihe ale Me Me ale Me ate ale Me dhe ae le Be he Bo he Be Be Me Ma Me Be Me Ba Be Be Be Ba Be Be Be Be Be Bede Bee debe dee

Se Mo Ma Be ole Me Mle se Be he Me dhe a Be Be Be Me Bee te Me Be Ba dle Be the a te he tla Bate Bade
MHP GP PGT PEt PG MEP MEY PGT EY MGT PES PES MR MES OES PGS PEO ES ES OES PGS PES PGS PRY PET PT RS PRY PRY Mat MRP PY a RY

 

 

te te
Se

ee eR eS eS SST SSS Se eee eee eee

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F.D. LC.

 

 

Fort Gordon Strength

 

WEL Nine Face Service Squad
In Southern Barnstorming Trip

By BARRY GREENE

In Florida, under warm sunny
skies the major league baseball
teams continue to train vigorously
in preparation for the opening of
the 1961 season. In icy, wind-blown
Lexington, the Washington and Lee
Generals heartily brave the cold
and continue to prepare for their
season which opens Friday, and then
commence a southern swing that
will include seven games between
Friday and April 1.

Three of these games will be
played at Fort Gordon, Georgia,
against the army base. These three
games should prove to be the hard-
est games of the season for the Gen-
erals. Just a look at their last year’s
record and personnel is enough to
convince the heartiest skeptic of this
fact. Last year the Fort Gordon team
won the Third Army championship
for the second successive season, de-
feating Ft. McPhearson, Ga., 13-5
in the finals.

While the Generals boast of their
big three pitchers: Carpenter, Gam-
ber and Sharp, the Fort Gordon, Ga.
team also boast of three big pitchers.
Mal Warren, property of the Balti-
more Orioles, hung up a 17-3 record
for the Signalares, including two
victories in the Third Army tour-
nament. The 23-year-old right-
hander possesses a sizzling fast ball
and a good curve. Bob Angel, of
the St. Louis Cardinal chain, pitched
two no-hitters and posted a 15-4
record. Angel, a 23-year-old south-
paw, is most effective with his wide
sweeping curve. Bernie Van Rem-
men, a 19-year-old right-hander
with no pro experience and a hop-

 

ping fast ball, caught the eye of Red
Sox scout Willard Nixon. Another
pitcher, Percy Carter, a_ right-
hander, is the product of the Chicago
White Sox farm and specialized in
relief for the Signalares.

In addition, Jack Adeits, first base-
man was the team’s leading hitter
with 380 over the regular season
Adeits, a converted pitcher, played
for Dothan in the Alabama-Florida
League. Lou Mrowcynski, played
third, outfield and caught for the
Signalares. He played with San An-
tonio, Texas League, in 1958. Catch-
er Joe Theis, who played for Al-
bany, Eastern League, before service,
made four all-star teams in five
years of minor ball. He hit over .300
for the Signalares. Bobby Davis, 19-
year-old shortstop of the San Fran-
cisco Giants farm, was leading hit-
ter, .450 in the Third Army tour-
nament.

There is no doubt that the Gener-
als are up against a team that could
probably fair well against any col-
lege team in the country. Coach
Lyles and the bunch have been
training hard for four weeks now,
and the weather, although cold, has
allowed the team to get outside
almost every day.

 

Coming Events

Friday, March 24

3:15 p.m.—Lacrosse. W&L vs. Uni-
versity of Maryland.

3:15 p.m.—Baseball.
Dartmouth.

W&L vs.

 

Ticket Sales
Lagging For

Lacrosse Game

By RANDY COLE

The Washington and Lee lacrosse
team is now making final prepara-
tions in anticipation of its coming
schedule this week which includes
games with the University of Mary-
land on Thursday, and the combined
Cambridge-Oxford team on Friday.
Coach Bob McHenry feels that the
team has come along very well in
the past few weeks and that the
boys are in fine physical condition.
As of late, the boys have been prac-
ticing every day in an effort to be
fully prepared for those two teams.

Maryland, after its loss a week ago
to the Mt. Washington Lacrosse Club
by a score of 15-7, should be up for
the game and will be gunning for
the Generals. The Terrapins have
lost many of their star performers
from last year’s squad but expect
great things from Ray Altman at
attack, and Buddy Beardmore and
Wall Durigg at midfield. All three
of these boys have been mentioned
for possible All-American berths.

The Cambridge-Oxford team will
arrive in Lexington on Thursday in
time to view the W&L-Maryland
contest and will tackle the Generals
the following day. At present, ticket
sales for the game, which will be
the first that any foreign team has
played in America, have fallen be-
low expectations. As publicized, the
team has been promised a nominal
gate figure to pay for its traveling
expenses, and any deficiency will
have to be made up by the athletic
department. Coach McHenry is
hopeful of selling 300-500 more tick-
ets to the game, since only 150 have

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

e
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

Golfers Play
At Greenbrier

With the opening tournament right
around the corner, the W&L golf
team continues to work. On April 1
and 2 the Generals will travel to the
Greenbrier where they will partici-
pate in the Invitational Intercol-
legiate Tournament with seven
other college teams. The other teams
include Virginia, West Virginia, Col-
gate, Ohio, George Washington,
Davidson and Dennison. On April
5 the Generals take on MIT here.

The team consists of two return-
ing lettermen: captain Jack Varda-
mand and Grantham Couch, juniors.
Ronnie Stuart, Steve Henry, and
Willie Lee, all sophomores, have
improved considerably. The remain-
ing position is held by freshman Jack
Neal.

All tournaments will be 36 holes,
medal play. In college tournaments
all six boys’ scores count. This makes
it all the more important for a team
to be well-rounded, and not just
boast of one or two standouts.

Coach Twombly said yesterday
that most of the good college scores
are in the low 70’s. “Although not
many golfers break seventy we hope
to have a team average in the low
70’s. Just last week Ronnie Stuart
fired a seventy-one.”

Last year captain Jack Vardaman
was the State Intercollegiate Cham-
pion. He also won the Green-
brier tournament, in addition to
three other tournaments won at
home.

rrr eee

 

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
+

erie toote

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Terre ee ee ee ee ee ee re ee

 

4
*
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
q
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

re
feos oho fe of oke oho oho oho fe shee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHAT SORT

Sure to take

Cameras

14 West Washington Street

PRES BROWN’S

A YOUNG MAN

Golf Clubs

Tennis Rackets

and all other sporting equipment

and Gifts from:

PRES BROWN’S

OF MAN SHOPS

at

the lead buys his

Fishing Gear

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Frosh Prospects
Brighten Scene

(Continued from page 3)

who has. been nicknamed “the
Pretzel-Bender,” has claimed the
third starting spot behind Carpenter
and Sharp. Ed Norton and Bill Mar-
mion will team with third baseman-
pitcher Chuck Lane to form what
Lyles hopes to be a good relief trio.

Joining Wood, who is termed
as “one of the best college de-
fensive centerfielders in the coun-
ty” by Lyles, are lettermen Bob
Williams and Wis Silver.

First base, the team’s biggest
question mark, is being manned by
6-5 freshman Howie Martin.

Carpenter, who plays third base
when he isn’t pitching, is the club’s
leading hitter, carrying over a .304
average from last year. Lyles is
looking for Wood and Hobbs to help
Carpenter carry the hitting load
this year.

“Hitting was our problem last
year, but after only two weeks
this year we are hitting 75 to 100
per cent better,” Lyles said.

Lyles will play his usual run-
ning game this year with Wood
and Hobbs, who stole 40 bases be-
tween them last year, supplying
the speed.

“We have an average club, but
we’re ready to start winning,” Lyles
said in summing up his outlook on
the season.

 

 

| STANLEY WARNER

STAT

LEXINGTON, VA.
L_MOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

NOW SHOWING

ww HOLDEN

Starks THE WORLD OF

SUZiE WONG
RANCY

   

edt SYLVA SYMS MICHAEL WILDING
JOHN PATRICK: RICHARD QUINE
witcha TECRIICOLOR®- "ss"

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

 

; Bebe oe hee of oho oho oe oe re nfo fe ofe oe heehee oe ofefe fede

White’s Music

Store

4

he

.

’

.

\

e

4

:

; (Opposite State Theater)
.

k

° . .
+ Phonographs—Hi-Fi
grap

Expert Repair Service
.

; i

%

e
\
.
%
.
.
%
.

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

HO 3-3522

 

4
q
4
4
4
4
4
q
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
q
rf
4
4

fob obo obe oho obo ere obese oe ofe she voodoo ofr ofe oe fe rleoheote

 

 

For SPRING and EASTER
Vacations

& ;
SPECIAL COLLEGE RATES |

GEBILTMORE

IN NEW YORK

$525 per person

(3 to a room)
$G25 per person

(2 to a room)

$Q00 single

For information or reservations
address Mr. Ralph Schaffner,
The Biltmore, New York 17, N. Y.
Madison Avenue at 43rd Street
MUrray Hill 7-7000
“WHERE EVERYONE MEETS
UNDER THE CLOCK”

W@&L Meets English Team

(Continued from page 3)

been purchased thus far. The game
certainly promises to be an inter-
esting and exciting contest, and stu-
dent support is earnestly desired.

In anticipation of these two con-
tests, the boys have been practic-
ing real hard. Coach McHenry feels
that “morale is good, and if we
hustle, play smart lacrosse, and get
the groundballs we stand a fine
chance of coming out on top.”

He feels that the team could sur-
prise a lot of people during the
forthcoming season.

Following these two games, the
squad will journey to Baltimore
where it will begin spring training,
meeting every day during vacation.

 

Moot Court Lawyers
(Continued from page 1)

god, D. Allen Penick, William M.
A. Romans, Jr., Shuler A. Kiser,
Charles W. Gunn, Jr., Henry J.
Foresman, Daniel W. McNeil, and
William O. Roberts. A tenth at-
torney is yet to be named.

Be Re

 

 

 

 

Tues. and Wed.

   

‘A Derry F. Zanoch Prod. nc. Picture

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi is gatas Tues-
day and Friday durin

It is printed We the

atory Press, a
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va.,

8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Che Ring-tuon Phi

he college year.
purnalisen Labor Editorial Board

shington and Lee Uni-

News Editor....... a
Sports Editor

under the act of March| Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler.

Photography Editor.

Advertising Manager...

  

ervice, Inc.,

EE sstetencnnnn Rosewell Page,
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Ill

Managing Edito®............0000 Bill Roberts
Assistant Managing Editor...............
e

 

Bill
Smith, Ronnie King

e
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto

 

 

 

BROWN’S Green Valley Motel
CLEANING
One Mile North on
WORKS U. S. Highway No. 11
We call for
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
and deliver
HO 3-2195
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

Be Me sMe Be Be Be Be Me he Be Be Me Be Be Be Be Me Be Bs Ze Be Be Be Be Se Be Bs Be Be Bo Bo Be Bo Be BeBe Bo Bede Bode hoch ee ee

 

@, H, Ss Se Be Be Me Me Me a he le he Me le te te tle a te ate
Tee re ee ee ee

OE ET EE ET eee. eeeeoeeerrorrr___'_ovovovvevvevneene

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

ae she she ae the Me Be he Be Be he Be Be Be Be Be Be Be BeBe BeBe Be Bo Be Be Be Be BeBe BeBe Be BeBe Bo Be BeBe BeBe Bee BeBe Bade

Be Se oe ee, Se ee ee
HS eS ee SS eS eS ee eee

 

 

 

: MYERS
* HARDWARE :
* COMPANY 3

OE eS ee Te See. eeeeeeeeerrrrr_r__nn,,,r,ree

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

 

 

a

 

 

Decidedly not. In fact most executive jobs are on
the ground. Of course, all officers may apply for pilot
and navigator training if they meet the eligibility
requirements. There will always be a need for piloted
aircraft. And it is foreseeable that in your working
lifetime, there will be piloted spacecraft—piloted and
navigated by Air Force officers,

But right now, there is also a big future for college-
trained Air Force officers on the ground. New and
exciting technical jobs are opening up. Important ad-
ministrative positions must be filled as World War II
officers move into retirement.

How can you—a college student—become an Air
Force officer? First, there’s Air Force ROTC. Then
for college graduates, men and women in certain
fields, there is Officer Training School. The graduate
of its three-month course wins a commission as a sec-
ond lieutenant. Other ways are the Navigator Train-
ing program, and the Air Force Academy.
Some benefits that go with being an Air Force
officer. Starting salary plus allowances compare
with the average in equivalent civilian jobs. Then
there’s free medical and dental care, thirty-day vaca-
tion, the chance to win graduate degrees at Air
Force expense, and liberal retirement provisions.
No, Air Force officers do not need wings to move
up. There’s plenty doing on the ground. Perhaps you
could be one of these young executives in blue. Ask
your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write, Officer
Career Information, Dept. 8C13, Box 7608,
Washington 4, D.C., if you want further infor-
mation about the navigator training or Officer

Training School programs.

U.S. Air Force

There’s a place for
professional achievement on the
Aerospace Team

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

   

 
 
   

Cciene wll lfindey

 

On Campus se! ic0
g

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many

Loves of Dobie Gillis’, etc.)

   

BOOM!

Today, foregoing levity, let us turn our keen young minds to the
No. 1 problem facing American colleges today: the population
explosion. Only last week four people exploded in Cleveland,
Ohio—one of them while carrying a plate of soup. In case you’re
thinking such a thing couldn’t happen anywhere but in Cleve-
land, let me tell you there were also two other cases last week —
a 45 year old man in Provo, Utah, and a 19 year old girl in
Bangor, Maine—and in addition there was a near-miss in
Klamath Falls, Oregon—an eight year old boy who was saved
only by the quick thinking of his cat Walter who pushed the
phone off the hook with his muzzle and dialled the department
of weights and measures. (It would perhaps have made more
sense for Walter to dial the fire department, but one can hardly
expect a cat to summon a fire engine which is followed by a
Dalmatian, can one?)

   
  

  
 

   

i
F It
oes

  

“aie

I bring up the population explosion not to alarm you, for I
feel certain that science will ultimately solve the problem. After
all, has not science in recent years brought us such marvels as
the transistor, the computer, the bevatron, and the Marlboro
filter? Oh, what a saga of science was the discovery of the
Marlboro filter! Oh, what a heart-rending epic of endless trial
and error, of dedication and perseverance! And, in the end, what
a triumph it was when the Marlboro scientists after years of
testing and discarding one filter material after another—iron,
nickel, lead, tin, antimony, sponge cake—finally emerged, tired
but happy, from their laboratory, carrying in their hands the
perfect filter cigarette! What rejoicing there was that day!
Indeed, what rejoicing there still is whenever we light a Marlboro
and settle back and enjoy that full-flavored smoke which comes
to us in soft pack or flip-top box at tobacco counters in all
fifty states and Cleveland!

Yes, science will ultimately solve the problems rising out of the
population explosion, but in the meantime the problems hang
heavy over America’s colleges. This year will bring history’s
greatest rush of high school graduates. Where will we find class-
rooms and teachers for this gigantic new influx?

Well sir, some say the answer is to adopt the trimester system.
This system, now in use at many colleges, eliminates summer
vacations, has three semesters per annum instead of two, and
compresses a four year course into three years.

This is good, but is it good enough? Even under the trimester
system the student has occasional days off. Moreover his nights
are utterly wasted in sleeping. Is this the kind of all-out attack
that is indicated?

I say no. I say desperate problems call for desperate reme-
dies. I say that partial measures will not solve this crisis. I say
we must do no less than go to school every single day of the
year. But that is not all. I say we must go to school 24 hours
of every day!

The benefits of such a program are, of course, obvious. First
of all, the classroom shortage will immediately disappear be-
cause all the dormitories can be converted into classrooms.
Second, the teacher shortage will immediately disappear because
all the night watchmen can be put to work teaching calculus
and Middle English poetry. And finally, overcrowding will
immediately disappear because everyone will quit school.

Any further questions?

RFit LS

© 1961 Max Shulman
+ * *

Yes, one further question: Have you tried Marlboro’s newest
partner in pleasure—the unfiltered, king-size Philip Morris
Commander? If not, by all means come aboard. You’ll be
glad you did.

 

 

 

 
