‘ If E Jli
  No~ Hdlo ? r
Scott Centorino laments that the

speaking tradition is dying.
OPINIONS / page 4

WASHINGTN AND LEE UNIVEkSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, JANUARY 26,2009

./ .
ix

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER/1."1V..’

., . 

BY THE STUDENTSAND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

Twelve students
march for life

Two days after the Presidential
inauguration, thousands march on
Washington to protest abortion

By Victoria Taylor
s TA FF w R I T E R

The inauguration of President Obama was not the only event
that crowded the streets of Washington D.C. this week.

Twelve Washington and Lee University undergraduate and law
students took to the streets of Washington Thursday to participate
in the annual March for Life. They were part of the almost 200
thousand anti-abortion advocates who marched from the National
Mall to the U.S. Supreme Court to protest the Roe v. Wade deci-
sion legalizing abortion.

Members of both (the) Washington and Lee Students for Life
and (the) Generals Christian Fellowship (GCF) traveled to D.C. to
take part in the peaceful, pro-life demonstration.

Junior Jessica Makona, president of Students for Life, said that
this year’s march was unique because it was held in the spirit of
the inauguration.

“President Obama says he is for change and we want to see
change being extended to the way our society treats human life,”
she said. “We want to see legislative change in the next four years
in the spirit of our mission and are hoping that Obama will lis-
ten.”

“President Obama says he is for. change
and we want to see change being extended
to the way our society treats human life.

We want to see legislative change in the
next four years in the spirit of our mission. ”

Jessica Makona, a junior who joined the March for Life
 

This was Makona’s third march with the Students for Life.

“Every year, the excitement of people from all walks of life
walking and rallying under the same cause is just electrifying,”
she said.

Thursday was the second time in three days that sophomore
Alex Sweetser, who is a member of both Students for Life and
GCF, made the trip to D.C. She said seeing so many pro-life ad-
vocates standing where she was a few days before for the inaugu-
ration was “quite an experience.” I '

“Walking up Constitution Avenue and looking back at the
thousands of people holding pro-life signs is a sight I will always
remember,” she said. “I am proud to say that I was a part of such
a visual protest against abortion.”

Although the two groups traveled separately, they did meet up
for a while at the march, according to GCF staff worker Steve
Tamayo. Tamayo said the GCF participants, including seniors
Chris Tutor and Hilary Craig, sophomores Sweetser and Sam
Gillerain, and ﬁrst years Carl Wolk, Matt Simpson and John Cal-
vin Young, had to get back to campus early for a meeting.

Tamayo said that the march sounded like it would “put some
legs on some things we have been studying in scripture.”

“It was good to pray and to think and hear and talk to people
about what it would look life for the church or the Christian com-
munity to make a contribution, and to hear from women and chil-
dren who have maybe had the struggle of deciding whether or not
to get an abortion, so there was a tie-in there,” Tamayo said.

The Students for Life group included alumnus Jameson Gaber,
second year law students George Davis and Sam Huang, third year
law student Nate Smith and juniors Makona and Dalena Moser.

The members who remained on campus set up a table in the
Elrod Commons living room to raise abortion awareness on the
36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. Students handed out lifesaver
hard candies and displayed posters encouraging the signing of the
Fight F OCA petition.

The Freedom of Choice Act, more commonly referred to as
FOCA, will eliminate restrictions on abortion nationwide once it
is signed. During a speech this past summer to the Planned Parent-
hood Action Fund, Obama said that, as president, he would sign
the bill into effect once it was passed by Congress. There has not
been much emphasis on F OCA since the inauguration.

The future of abortion laws and restrictions in the United States
remains unknown. On Friday, Obama reversed the Bush admin-
istration’s ban on federal aid to international groups that provide
abortions or give abortion information.

“In the coming weeks,” Obama told the Associated Press, “my
administration will initiate a fresh conversation on family plan-
ning, working to ﬁnd areas of common ground to best meet the
needs of women and families at home and around the world.’’

go

CATHERINE CARLOCK / Staff Photographer

A view of the Capitol building and inauguration stage from the National Mall in Washington, D.O.

W&L students join millions of others in C.

By Diandra Spicak
smrr wmrsa

As they stepped out into
the early morning chill in
Washington D.C., 77 W&L’
students braced themselves
against the biting breeze that
hit their faces.

At 6 a.m., the city streets
were already bustling with
throngs of army men and
women and echoing with
the sounds of police sirens.
Amid the buzz and excite-
ment, there was a common
purpose as the mass of hu-
manity streamed forward to

VMI cadets

By Jacob Geiger
surr warm:

Long before sunrise on
Inauguration morning, the

A barracks at Virginia Military

Institute was swarming with
activity.

Cadets raced from their
rooms to Crozet Hall to wolf
down French toast, eggs and
bacon before grabbing their
full~dress uniforms and riﬂes
and climbing aboard one of
26 charter buses.

For the 13“‘ time in the
institute’s history, the corps
was headed to Washington,

VDC. to march in an inaugu-

ral parade.
The convoy was mov-
ing by 5:15 a.m., and as the

watch the historical inaugu-
ration of the 44“‘ president,
Barack Obama.
Passersby and students
“We sat and
watched literally
thousands of peo-
ple walk by. ”
Jeanine Bailey: ﬂrst-year

alike were visibly excited
to be there. Dean Tamara

Futrell said the trip the trip
was not only a chance to be
part of history but to come
closer together.

“At ﬁrst we were only
going to have one bus but

then we started to realize.

how many students actually
wanted to go to the inaugu-

ration, so we hired another

one,” she said.
“On the buses, a lot of

A students didn’t know each

other...but because of the
bus ride in the morning, a lot
of friendships formed over
this event. Everyone just

seemed so excited.”

First-year Jeanine Bailey
detailed the events of the
day.

“When we got off the bus,
it was so cold, it was almost
fn"gid...Peop1e were stand-
ing around, asking ‘What do
we do? Where do we go?’
When we got in our groups,
we felt a bit more comfort-
able. Then I realized that
there was going to be a lot of
walking. When we got to the
corner and saw the Capitol, I

See “Inauguration” on page 2

marchin their 13th inauguration

cadets settled in for what
would be a long and grueling
day, many knew the signiﬁ-
cance of their mission.

’ “Its going to be busy, but
we’re a part of history,” 2"“
classman Brian Cvengros. .

By the end of the day,
‘when they ﬁnally marched
past the reviewing stand a
few minutes before 7 p.m.
as the next-to-last unit in the
parade, the cadets had made
quite an impression on Presi-
dent Barack Obama and‘First
Lady Michelle Obama.

As the band passed the
reviewing stand in front of
the White House, televi-
sion cameras captured the
ﬁrst lady leaning over to the

president.

“Wow!,” the ﬁrst lady
appeared to say. “That’s
amazing.”

It was a historic day for

“Itfs something
down the road I ’ll
be able to...say I

/‘

took part in. '
Alex Doseff, VMI cadet

the whole nation, but also
for the Corps of Cadets. This
year marked the 100th anni-
versary of their first appear-

ance in the parade, when the
corps helped William How-
ard Taft kick off his term in
March 1909.

By 8 a.m. on the mom-
ing of the inauguration, the
buses were roaring down an
unusually deserted Interstate
66, taking advantage of spe-
cial bus routes and police as-
sistance to race toward the
Pentagon. And then the wait-
ing started. The cadets had
nearly 10 hours to kill until
their 1.6 mile march down
Pennsylvania Ave.

The Inaugural Parade is
far more complicated than
most. The cadets had to en»
dure long periods of sitting

See “inaugural parade" on page 3

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

TM! 9

VITIV A: (J 

9 "mm;

MONDAY,

JANUARY 26, 2009

 

ODK znducts 30 new members; Jack Goldsmith reﬂects on B ush administration
By John Henderson tion dictates, due to concerns over slippery , “The central irony is, the agenda to ex-
" EW 5 E D ' T o R conditions. pand presidential power will end up weak-

Many of Lee Chapel’s pews were oc- ening the presidency in the foreseeable fu-
Twenty-eight Washington and Lee un- cupied for the induction ceremony, in ture,” Goldsmith said in his 2007 speech.
dergraduate and law school students were which all 30 inductees came on stage to Now Goldsmith argues that while the

inducted last Monday into Omicron Delta be “tapped” into ODK with a ceremonial Bush administration sacriﬁced trust in the I

Kappa (ODK), a national leadership honor cane. Audience members also came to effort to consolidate its powers, President

society founded at W&L in 1914. hear Jack Goldsmith, W&L class of 1984 Barack Obama is on his way to restoring

Students were selected from both and a member of ODK , deliver the key- trust with the American people.

schools out of the 2009 and 2010 graduat- note speech, "‘The Presidency in the Age Quoting Abraham Lincoln, whose

ing classes. The majority of the inductees of Terrorism.” name frequently crops up with Obama’s

were undergraduate seniors, 15, followed Goldsmith gave a similar speech to in the media, Goldsmith said to his W&L

by ﬁve undergraduate juniors, ﬁve third— W&L faculty and students in December audience, “Public sentiment is everything. ‘

year law school students and three second— 2007, shortly after the publication of his With public sentiment, nothing can fail.

year law school students.

‘WT :1::a;n’3?;:iat::n‘:”g’::1: “Public sentiment is everything. With public sentiment,

H‘"“’°°d- Dmma“ was W&L‘ ﬁrs‘ Var" nothing can fail. I/Wthout it, nothing can succeed. ”

sity volleyball coach from 1987-1993,

director for the Center for Suicide Preven-

E:b::: §:?::1:o;‘:?‘:d2:?g-$33gone Jack Goldsmlth, W&L Class of 1984, quotlng Abraham Llncoln

bridge Area Occupational Center.

Harwood, W&L class of 1974, founded book “The Terror Presidency,” an inside Without it, nothing can succeed.”

the news department of local radio station look at the Bush administration during Goldsmith made two predictions con-

WREL, was an editor of the Buena Vista Goldsmith’s tenure as assistant attorney ceming the current presidency. First, that

News, and since 1992 has been the edi- general from 2003-2004. the threat of attack will not pass as Obama

tor and publisher of The Rockbridge Ad- Goldsmith offered a fresh perspective steps into power. Rather, Obama will be

vocate, a local independent newspaper. on former President Bush’s role in the in the same position as Bush of needing

Harwood has also taught journalism at the “war on terror” arguing that the Bush ad- to shore up American security, but his tac-

Virginia Military Institute and serves on ministration is to thank for its “unceasing tics will likely be very different. Already,

the board of directors of the Rockbridge efforts” to prevent a second major terrorist Obama has ordered the closure of the 

Regional Fair.

Class schedules were adjusted Monday
to make room for the 11:45 a.m. convo-
cation, which was held in Lee Chapel.
Organizers opted not to process from
Washington Hall to Lee Chapel, as tradi-

attack after September 11, 2001.

He went on to reiterate some of the
themes from last year’s speech, speciﬁcal-
ly the Bush presidency’s failure to consult
Congress on key decisions and its general
lack of transparency.

prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where
allegations of human rights abuses stained
the Bush administration.

of

Celebrating diversity

Law school hosts cultural lectures and ﬁlm

By Valaree Tang
surr wnmsn

The week of January 19
through the 23 marked Diversi-
ty Week at Washington and Lee
University’s School of Law. The
week featured an event each day
that helped to educate students
on both the undergraduate and
law school campuses about di-
versity and culture.

Hilary O. Shelton, the Direc-
tor of the NAACP Washington
Bureau, spoke on Monday, Jan-
uary 19 in the Millhiser Moot
Court Room.

Sponsored by Sponsored
by the Federalist Society and
American Constitution Society,
guest speakers Gail Heriot, Pro-
fessor of Law, University of San

Diego School of Law, Roger topic “From Terrorist to Free— he had told his torturers all the The screening of “War ‘‘It just goes to show you that  ’
Clegg, President of Center for dom Fighter: One Man’s Fight information he had. Today, Ma- Child,” sponsored by the Jour- everyone has purpose and a des-
Equal Opportunity and w&L’S To End Apartheid” on Wednes- baso is proud of how far South nal of Civil Rights and Social tiny in life.”
own Ted Delaney’ history pro_ day and talked about his expe— Africa has come. He referred to Justice, is a documentary that The screening of the ﬁlm
rience in the liberation move- Martin Luther King Jr.’s“I Have followed Emmanuel Jal’s life, was followed by a question and
Inauguration and colder. Basically we were ‘“Wow.’ That was my ﬁrst Futrell said. “We’ve come leaps _
stalled, and we tried to reunite that thought,” Bailey said. and bounds since that time of
contlnued from page 1 the group. We ended following “He’s a very great orator, his turmoil, and there I was watch-
the giant crowd.” words were very moving...I ing the inauguration of a black
thought to Ihyselh ‘Okay= After two hours, the trek end— kept thinking, wow, I’m here for president. It brought tears to my
this is real how-m ed as the jumbo-trons came into this. I’m one of the million[s] eyes.”
The groups fouhu themselves sight. Groups staked out spots that showed up here today.” Bailey said she was look-
oaught up ih the erowo aho and began to wait in the brisk Chants of “Obama” and “Yes ing forward to the inauguration
pushed down the street’ People 20 degree temperatures for the We Can!” were audible over the since the start of Obama’s can-
were peeked ih everywhere’ inauguration, the reason why mass of humanity. Strangers didacy.
pushihg through erowds’ raeihg over 1 million people crowded held others in embraces, includ- “I just couldn’t pass up the
others to hho a spot oh the Na‘ into D.C. to witness the swear— ing one woman handing out chance when it came  Even .

tional Mall. What started off as
a large group of W&L students
and faculty was broken into
small, separate groups which
had difficulty reconnecting.
“Our group split up, and it
slowly started getting smaller
as more people went different
ways,” Bailey said. “We sat
and watched literally thousands
of people walk by. As we sat
there, it seemed to get colder

fessor, explored the topic of
“Afﬁrmative Action and Higher
Education: Help or Hindrance?”
on Tuesday. The speakers of-
fered their views on afﬁrrnative
action. Clegg described the term

I “aﬂelnnative action” as initially

being designed to “casting a
wide net” where the application
process was open to everyone.

But Delaney sees affirma-
tive action as the best option for
diversifying educational institu-
tions. “We want students who
make the campus richer. We
want students who give the uni-
versity wide appeal. Aﬁirmative
action is not an ideal solution
but, it gives us direction,” said
Delaney.

Thulani Mabaso spoke on the

ing in of Ame'rica’s ﬁrst Afri-
can—American president.

“After walking there and
getting on to the mall, it really
didn’t hit me until I saw Presi-
dent Obama on the big screen,”
Futrell said. “I was jumping and
screaming, but once he started
talking, it was like I was in
shock. I suddenly got quiet, and
I began to cry. It was, for lack of
a better word, amazing.”

ment in South Africa. In battling
apartheid, Mabaso spoke about
alienation in his own country.
He ran away from home and

eventually trained to ﬁght as‘

part of the liberation movement
as the “spear of the nation”. He

a Dream” speech, saying, “The
country belongs to all of us who
live in it regardless of color. In
South Africa, we don’t look at
your color. We look at how you
perform.”

Mabaso’s speech was geared

“We want students who make the campus

richer. We want students who give the univer-

sity wide appeal. Aﬁirmative action is not an

ideal solution, but it gives us direction. ”

Ted Delaney, Assoc. Professor of Hlstory

was later arrested, put in solitary
conﬁnement and suffered brutal
torture that continued even after

“free hugs for America.”

“People of all racial and eth-
nic backgrounds had come to-
gether. It was really the United
States,” -Futrell observed

She said America has made
signiﬁcant progress just in her
lifetime.

“I grew up in this age where
my parents had to sit on the
back of the bus, where they
couldn’t eat in certain places,”

toward students of the law
school, calling for lawyers to
ﬁght for justice.

though it was a long, tiring jour-
ney, and my feet were freezing
and my face numb, it was all
worth it.”

CATHERINE CARLOCK / Staff Photographer

An Amerlcan ﬂag ﬂutters
In front of the National
Monument, where mII-
llons gathered for the
Presldentlal Inauguration

r

from his involvement in the Su-
danese liberation movement and
his escape from oppression to
becoming a world-famous mu-
sician. He is currently involved
in a musical group called Lost
Boys that educates listeners
about the situation in Sudan. J al
is also giving back to those who
helped him by helping to found
and build the Leer School in Su-
dan.

‘“War Child’ was absolute-
ly captivating. It amazes me
how Emmauel was able to rise
above of his unimaginable cir-
cumstances as a starving child
soldier in Sudan and succeed to
become a major hip—hop star in
Europe,” said Joan Oguntimein,
who viewed the ﬁlm for a class.

 

y1est9§§a,Pee ‘

answer session with the director
and producer of “War Child,”
C. Karim Chrob0g,. who spent
four and a half years making the
film. .

On Friday, Amul R. Thapar,
U.S. District Judge for the East-
em District of Kentucky spoke
on the topic of “Diversity of
Thought: An Old Challenge
for a New Millennium” in the
Millhiser Moot Court Room,
followed by a Q&A session.
The lecture was sponsored by
the South Asian Law Students
Association, the Asian Paciﬁc
American Law Students Asso-
ciation, and the Latin American

. Law Students Association.

 

  

 

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

MONDAY,

news

 Macado’s makes a start in Lex

. The new bar and restaurant has had no problem attracting students and locals

LENORA NUNNLEY / Staff Photographer

An outside view of Macado’s, which is located in the old Wilson Walker House

on North Main Street.

By Llzz Dye
s TA F F w R I T E R

In a town like Lexington,
something new and exciting is a
rare commodity. Freshmen have
probably exhausted all dinner
options in town already, and
it’s only been ﬁve months since
school began.

Domino’s, although always
satisfying, has lost its original
allure (there are only so many
cheese pizzas one can eat), and
restaurants like the Southern
Inn and the Bistro, although ex-
cellent, can only be visited so
many times on a college budget.
With pledgeship, teeth-gritting

Inaugural Parade

continued from page 1

on the bus, thorough security
screening, long waits and bitter
cold. And,_ of course, there were
the hours of practice before they
ever left Lexington.

“We’ve been practicing
all week in the afternoon, just
marching around the parade

cold weather, and schoolwork
piling up in full force, some-
thing new would certainly take
the edge off Winter Term.

The recently opened
bar and restaurant on North
Main Street, Macado’s, is the
answer to any Winter Term
slump. Macado’s is part of a
chain started in 1978 that has
14 other restaurants at locations
in Virginia, West Virginia, and
North Carolina.

This is the second time the
restaurant chain has made a go
of it in Lexington. In the eighties
a Macado’s occupied the space
currently held by Malone’s, but

lion people who had jammed the
District were on their way out
of town. But the Corps still de-
livered a ﬁlll dose of pomp and
circumstance as they passed the
White House.

The band struck up “Shenan-
doa ,” the corps’s ofﬁcers
snapped their sabers to attention,
and all 1,300 cadets delivered an
“eyes-left” salute as they passed
the reviewing stand.

“I ’ll tell my grandkids about a young me

who was sitting around a very long time

in the cold...and ﬁnally getting to pass the
President, our first black president. I ’ll tell

them I felt honored and privileged. ”

Hunter Davis, a third-ciassmen at VMI
 

deck,” Cadet Alex Doseff said
at breakfast Tuesday mom-
ing. They were nervous about
making a good impression and
ensuring that days of practice
weren’t wasted.

“My role is to march at the
back of the formation, since I’m
on the regimental staff, and try
not to screw anything up,” Cadet
Jonathan Price said that mom-
ing. “But it’s a pretty cool day;
it’s not every day you get to sa-
lute your commander-in-chief.”

Cadets said their reward — a
chance to march just feet away
from Obama — was well worth
the practice and the waiting.

“It’s something down the
road I’ll be able to look back and
say I took part in,” said Doseff.
“Not many people get to do it.”

When the cadets turned left
from 15th Street onto Pennsylva-
nia Avenue, it was already dark,
and many of the almost two mil-

They were a dramatic sight
as they continued up Pennsylva-
nia Avenue: the long, perfectly
arrayed ranks in full dress uni-
form, marching in step behind
the American, state and institute
ﬂags.

VMI was the only military
academy selected to bring its
entire student body. Other ser-
vice academies sent only a few
companies. The Corps of Cadets
was by far the largest single unit
to march, and the cadets made
up about 10 percent of the esti-
mated 13,000 people who par-
ticipated in the parade.

The parade was scheduled
to step off at 2:30 p.m., but Sen.
Ted Kennedy’s seizure at the
Senate’s inaugural luncheon de-
layed the march. President and
Mrs. Obama, after walking long
stretches of the parade route,
did not reach the White House
until well after 4 p.m., and the

the restaurant ceased to exist
when the company transitioned
and split apart in 1993.

Brian Turpin, one of two
managers at Macado’s, said the
chain wanted to come back be-
cause Lexington is like “a sec-
ond home”. The draw of two
colleges in the same town was
also an incentive because one of
the franchise’s goals is to cater
to college students.

Macado’s is located in the
old Wilson Walker House. The
lower level is the “bar” area,
and boasts both bar seating
and table seating, with four big
screen TV’s that run sporting

 

events day and night and pro-
vide a view for the costumers.
The upper level has more of a
restaurant feel, with booth and
regular table seating, and also
has two large screen TV’s fea-
turing the athletic game of the
hour.

Turpin said they had to do
a total overhaul of the build-

ing, but because it is a histori- ,

cal building, they had to keep
all the original walls and ﬁx-
tures intact. A majority of the
expensive work was facial
reconstruction of the building,
making it a “ﬂoor to ceiling”
operation. _

Macado’s has been ex-
tremely successful in its ﬁrst
weeks in business.
a Wednesday evening around
5:30,, there will already be a
few people seated upstairs,
downstairs and at the bar. By
6:30 there is a long line form-
ing and by 7 almost every seat

in the house downstairs will be
occupied, while more costum-
ers continue to ﬁle upstairs.
Emily Fix, a waitress, has
been training to work at Maca-
do’s since December. She com-
mented that during the week-
day, clientele include mostly
VMI cadets, W&L students and
younger locals in the evening.
On weekends, Fix’ sees “famil-
iar faces” both Friday and Sat-
urday, and a large mixture of
W&L and VMI students, espe-
cially later in the night. Lunch
brings a very different crowd,
mostly people on their lunch
breaks, older patrons, students,

Even on

and soldiers interning at VMI.
Getting a seat is difﬁcult
on any evening, but especially
the weekends if one comes af-
ter 6:30. Because Macado’s is
so new, few of the waiters and
waitresses have gone through
full training, so the wait for
food or the check can be long.
That is made up for by the de-
licious food and desserts, and
there is a variety of alcoholic

and her son were not so up-beat
about their experience. Marisa
said that she used to work at the
Macado’s in Roanoke when she
was in high school, and that they
had to memorize every item on
the overwhelming menu.

At the Lexington Macado’s,
it is preferable for the waiters
and waitresses to memorize
the menu, but not mandatory.

-Marisa also said that this Maca-

“[Having Macado ’s in Lexington has been]

fun and crazy at the same time. I think that
if we continue to cater to VMI cadets, W&L

students and locals, we will be just ﬁne. ’

J

Russ Putney, Macado’s General Manager
 _

and non-alcoholic beverages to
choose from.

Jack Ivy, a sophomore at
W&L, enjoyed “The Honey-
mooner,” a sandwich that has
ham, melted Swiss, bacon and
tomato on a hot buttered crois-
sant. Jack gave Macado’s two
thumbs up, saying, “Sunrise
Sandwich. . .two dollars; dinner
at d-hall. . .ten dollars; ‘the Hon-
eymooner’. . .priceless.”

Jack also tested the “Cin-
namon Sensation”, which is
a huge, warm cinnamon roll
topped off with vanilla ice
cream, and he said that it was
“something you can’t get any-
where else! Awesome!”

Marisa, a Lexington resident,

do’s “caters more to alcohol
rather than food, anyway.”

Her son did not like his
cheese pizza, but they both en-
joyed the mac and cheese, one
of the items for which Macado’s
is renowned. While Marisa’s
sandwich was not as warm as
she would have liked, she said it
was still good and she is excited
about having somewhere differ-
ent to go in Lexington.

Russ Putney, the general
manager, said having Macado’s
in Lexington has been “fun and
crazy at the same time. I think
that if we continue to cater to
VMI cadets, W&L students and
locals we will be just ﬁne.”

JACOB GEIGER / Staff Writer

The entire VMI cadet core marched In the Inaugural parade; It was their thirteenth inaugural appearence

since 1905.

Cadets did not start marching
until about 5:15, the time they
had originally planned to pass
the reviewing stand.

By the time they turned off
Pennsylvania Avenue and re-
ceived permission to un-shoul-
der their riﬂes and remove their
bayonets, they looked both tired
and cold, as temperatures had
dropped to 26 degrees Fahren-
heit with a wind chill of 16.

In such a ﬂuid situation, the
cadets said patience ~— and a will-
ingness to follow orders — was
required.

‘‘I’m a corporal, so I’m pret-
ty much just going to be doing
what everyone else tells me to
do,” third classman Cam Rush-
ton said before getting on his
bus at/ 5 a.m. “Just line up and
go with the ﬂow.”

The cadets handled the cold
and delays with their good hu-
mor intact, laughing and joking
as they walked down 20th Street
back to their buses. They were
also excited to describe the ex-
perience of being so close to
their commander-in-chief.

“It was a pretty cool expe-

rience,” Ryan Buell said as he
got back on his bus. “I mean,
of course it was pretty cold and
we had to walk a long time, but
that’s one of those things we’re
always going to remember. It
was a pretty surreal experi-
ence.”

Hunter Davis, a third-class-
man, said he was surprised at
how smoothly things went.

“It was amazing, and it
pretty much went off without a
hitch,” he said.

But beyond the logistics,
Davis, of Houma, Louisiana.,

said the experience of passing
the president was deeply mov-
ing.

“I’ll tell my grandkids
about a young me who was sit-
ting around a very long time in
the cold  and finally getting
to pass the president, our first
black president. I’ll tell them I
felt honored and privileged.

“This memory will go down
as one of my most powerful:
passing by the president, listen-
ing to that hymn and marching
in uniform.”

 

 

JANUARY 26, 2009

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 4

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2009

opinions

 

It is time to start speaking to each other

Centorino wonders why we ’ll spend thousands for FD, but won

By Scott Centorlno
c o L u M N I s T

We at Washington and Lee value
traditions, or so we claim. Most of us
do ﬁnd comfort in the strong founda-
tion of this university. Most of us be-
long to fraternities or sororities.

We live by a century-old honor sys-
tem. We look forward to Fancy Dress
and the Mock Convention. We hang
pictures of those who came before us
on the walls of our dining hall. When
we walk along the Colonnade, we no-
tice how generations of students have
worn the steps beneath our feet. We
wonder what they thought about this
place or whether they knew how many
would follow and admire their steps.

Without a doubt, Fancy Dress will
take place this March. And, despite
our recent false prediction, the country

waits for our next Mock Convention.
We will spend hundreds of thousands of
dollars to keep these traditions alive.

Yet, one tradition still fades - the
free tradition. When we walk out the
doors of Fancy Dress, or meet strang-
ers at the Mock Convention, we will
pass each other in silence. We have for-
gotten this tradition. We have lost the
speaking tradition. _

In 1893, John B. Collyar of Nash-
ville, Tennessee wrote of his experi-
ences as a student here during Robert
E. Lee’s presidency. Collyar describes
General Lee in his oﬂice as being
“gentle, kind, and almost motherly,
in his bearing.” Although expecting a
hardened warrior, Collyar found him to
emanate warmth.

Although Collyar described the
General has having a “broken heart,”

looking “as if the sorrow of a whole
nation had been collected in his coun-
tenance,” Lee still knew every student
by name.

Having just lost the bloodiest war in

come General Lee. In fact, perhaps his
unattainably lofty standard of civility
has doomed us to fail and we should
simply settle for above average civility.
Perhaps we should surrender and be-

T he speaking tradition is so simple and so salvage-

able...It remains one of the few traditions which bring

us together, rather than dividing and categorizing us.

We must not relegate [it] to the prison of the past.

American history, Lee borrowed from
his fountain of strength the ability to
remain cordial and humble with stu-
dents not unlike us.

We could not possibly aspire to be-

come just another liberal arts college.
In doing so,’ we would turn our
backs on our past and cheat ourselves
of what distinguishes us from others.
The speaking tradition is so simple and

’t speakfor free

so salvageable. Its fragility is obvious.
If one generation of students ignore
it, the tradition will die. However, its
strength is contagious.

The speaking tradition, despite its
fading, remains one of the most Visible
traditions on campus. The speaking tra-
dition does not discriminate. It remains
one of the few traditions which bring
us together, rather than dividing and
categorizing us.

We must not relegate inconvenient
traditions to the prison of the past. All
traditions, big and small, should liber-
ate us and guide us into the future.

Traditions, embraced correctly, act
not. as burdens, but as reminders of
those who came before us and suc-
ceeded in the challenge of keeping
such fragile memories alive.

When it comes to food, :Si se puede!

Stockton Bullitt

By Stockton Bullitt
C0 LU MN IST

I had wrapped up my morning
classes and could smell it all the way
from Huntley.

Today was fajita day at the Market-
place, and the hope smelled wonder-
ful.

I rushed down the stairs, knocked
over a couple of Thetas, and edged my
way to the front of the fajita line.

All of my ingredients were perfect-
ly measured to make the perfect Larry
Fitzgerald of fajitas: beef to accentuate
my masculinity, onions and salsa to
spice up the party, cheese and guaca-
mole to sober drive.

However, when I ﬁnally sat down
to eat my beloved fajita, there was a
small problem: my tortilla completely
fell apart and ruined the Mexican dish

 

4

says its time for the Dining Hall to start buying

I had so fastidiously prepared. I was
heartbroken.

I love the Dining Hall. The people
are nice, the selection is great, and
99% of the food is more than up to my
standards of eating, but, alas, they have

Now, you may be asking yourself
why do I have such a problem with one
piece of food, or rather, why am I wast-
ing your precious reading time talking
about tortillas?

Well, there is a simple answer to

If the Pillsbury Dough Boy and Cesar Chavez had a
love child, it would no doubt be some kind of tortilla.

The combination of freedom and ﬂuﬁiness that comes

from eating a tortilla cannot be substituted...

sadly disappointed me in their choice
of tortilla.

It is thin, weak, and tastes like plas-
tic, none of which are all that appealing
to eat. I

totheetilior 
Hazing is unacceptable

Alumni argue that hazing is damaging to fraternities

that: tortillas are arguably the most vi-

tal food piece that you will ever have at‘

Washington and Lee.
First and foremost, tortillas are im-
portant because they tie together the

best ethnic food in America.

Without tortillas, there is no fajitas,
enchiladas, burritos, breakfast burritos,
quesadillas, tacos, or gyros, if you get
tired of our friends to the south. They
make all Mexican food worth eating
because they provide one thing that
other foreign foods‘ cannot offer: con-
venience.

When was the last time you could
eat mu shu pork inside your sesame
noodles? Tortillas bring together all of
Mexico’s dishes into one place.

They make eating democratic.

Tortillas’ standing in the culture of
food are explained by the cheap com-
fort people enjoy from Taco Bell and
the overall essence of Mexico. There is
no better comfort to a distorted mind
and empty tummy than a micro waved
quesadilla. Just try and take tortillas out
of that equation, and you no doubt have

better tortillas

some major issues on your hands.

The best part of tortillas is probably
the only thing that is missing from the
Dining HalI’s version, and that is most
deﬁnitely the love.

Thereis something about the Mexi-
can hamburger bun that just screams
cuddly.

If the Pillsbury Dough Boy and
Cesar Chavez had a love child, it would
no doubt be some kind of tortilla.

The combination of freedom and
ﬂuffmess that comes from eating a tor-
tilla cannot be substituted from my life
or any.

So with a new administration being
sworn in this week, I ask that we call
for change, no matter how big or how
small. '

Let’s change the tortillas. Yes we

can!

  HEYYOU!

Got a bone to pick? Really like arts and
life? Enjoy writing? Huge fan of Generals
sports? Write for the Phi!

Also needed: copy editors, designers
and photographers

Contact phi@wlu.edu

 

 

To the Inter-Fratemity Council and all
fraternity presidents.

Gentlemen:

Many alumni care deeply about the
Greek system at W&L. The members of
the Alumni Board certainly do, and we
want to share our thoughts on the issue of
hazing.

good fraternity system. It doesn’t make
you like or feel better about the house you
have joined, and it gives strong ammuni-
tion to those who wish to criticize or sanc-
tion fraternities.

In the last several years, the well
known zero tolerance policy has been
tested. Unfortunately, ﬁve fraternities
have been punished, including some sus-
pensions from campus. In ‘each instance,

There is an institutional belief in a good and positive

Greek system, and there has been real progress... [we]

ask you to accept our challenge that 2009 be the year

when there is no hazing.

All three of us, and most male alumni,
belonged to fraternities here. They did
and do like the fact that fraternities are a
key part of the active social component of
student life at W&L. _

Freshman ‘beanies’, mandatory coats
and ties to classes, and an ‘assimilation

committee’ which punished fraternity
pledges on a whim, all existed previously
at W&L. That sounds crazy now because
time changes. The most pro-Greek alumni
feel strongly that hazing is not part of a

the conduct was admitted, the IFC per-
formed properly, and the Greek national
organizations were actively involved.
Despite these well—publicized punish-
ments, some hazing took place again last
year, and it should not have surprised any-
one when strong penalties were imposed.
Alumni leaders who do care deeply about
fraternities are n_ot going to defend anyone
or any house if hazing occurs. It threatens
the continuation of Greek life here.
Based on our work as volunteer lead-

ers, we do not believe that the University
is ‘anti—Greek.’ It is, however, adamantly
and correctly opposed to hazing, and so
are we. In the mid l980’s, W&L invested
about $18 million refurbishing your fra-
ternity houses when the overwhelming
trend at other colleges was to shut them.
Vice president for Student Affairs Dawn
Watkins has written and spoken nation-
ally in support of our Greek system. Beta
is returning to campus alter a suspension,
and a sixth sorority has been launched.

There is an institutional belief in a
good and positive Greek system, and there
has been real progress on many fronts. We
congratulate you on that progress, and ask
you to accept our challenge that 2009 be
the year when there is no hazing, so that
W&L fraternity life is not jeopardized.
Help us preserve the long and proud lega-
cy of fratemities.

Thanks for leading, and good luck
completing a successful year for fratemi-
ties. If we can help, please ask us.

For the Alumni Board,

Dan Einstein, ’83, Alumni Board presi-
dent

David Proctor, ’8l, Alunmi Board vice
president

Beau Dudley, ’74, ‘79L, Executive Direc-
tor of Alumni Affairs

PSYCHOLOGY IN THE
WORKPLACE:
Alumni-In-Residence Series

 

FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. BUSINESS
CONSULTING. EDUCATION AND COUNSELING.
NON-PROFITS. PRIVATE PRACTICE.
SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY. RESEARCH.
UNIVERSITY TEACHING.

February 5th Beth Stutzmann ‘9O
February 12th Scott Miller ‘92

Individual Meetings 10- 12
Lunch 12: 15-1: 15
Call 458-8595 for Reservations

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREERSERVICES

careers@wlu.edu

458-8595 careers.wlu.edu

 

  

3.

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0

5

 

pinions

I Corrections

The editors of the Ring-tum Phi wish to express
our sincerest apologies for the misprints in
last weeks article, “Professor crosses cultural
lines ’’ by Becky Guynn. A number of errors
weré mistakenly left in the version of the story
that went to print. The article describes Prof

_ Indira Somani is ﬁlm, “Crossing Lines, ” which

was screened on Jan. 15 in Stackhouse Theater
on the Washington and Lee campus.

“Crossing Lines” tells the story of an Indian-American

woman, Somani, on her journey to stay connected to India ’

after the death of her father. She describes the ﬁlm as “a
unique story about the relationship of an Indian father and
his American-born Indian daughter.” In the ﬁlm, Somani
explains how she has struggled to stay connected to her In-
dian heritage as a second generation Indian-American.
During the development of the ﬁlm, which took four
years to make, Somani wanted her extended family to know
that women could ‘be accomplished and happy without be-
ing manied. Her friend, Seema Goyal, traveled with her
throughout India and was also the producer of the ﬁlm

there.

During the post-ﬁlm discussion on Jan. 15, Somani ex-
plained that her pariants never pressured her to have a con-
nection to her faith and culture. Before receiving her Ph.D.,
Somani worked as a news producer for ten years at various
stations, including CNBC where she produced the around-
the-clock post-9/ ll coverage. Her extended family in India
loved that she was involved in television, but also respected
that she wanted to follow in her father’s footsteps into aca-

demia.

“Crossing Lines” served to strengthen Somani’s connec-

tion to India through her family and the love she found in
them. Somani’s father had always enjoyed making home
videos, and footage from these videos has been weaved into
her own ﬁlm. She explained how much her family appreci-
ated the ﬁlm and how it “was a way for her family to keep

[her father’s] memory alive.”

Corrections written by Michael Morella

 ~ ~ - WASHINGTON no Ln: Umvsasmr

   R1Nc:ruMPH1 

MANAGING Eoiron
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
sronrs EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE

CRIGHTON ALLEN
STOCKTON BULLITT
SCOTT CENTORINO
JEAN CHAPMAN
LIZZ DYE

JACOB GEIGER
KATIE HATFIELD

IFINDLEY MERRITT

MICHAEL MORELLA
HANK NATHAN
DIANDRA SPICAK
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
KIMBER WIGGS

LARA JORDAN
CATHERINE CARLOCK
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately. truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RlNG—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT

MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.

THE MEDIA BOARD

IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

LEE CAMPUS.

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN

CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES I
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-TUM PHI I
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Rick Warren insulting

By picking Rev. Warren to pray, Obama oﬂended the gays

By Jean Chapman
COLUM NIST

I was absurdly excited on
Tuesday morning. I woke up,
sent some jubilant texts to my
friends, went to class, then
curled up in front of the TV to
watch the inauguration.

My ecstatic enthusiasm
lasted right up until Rick War-
ren took the podium to give the
benediction. Major downer.

Why on Earth would Obama,
the demigod of the Democratic
Party, choose to bring along a
heel like Rick Warren on the day
of his arrival at Olympus?

He who seemingly could do

no wrong made a seriously er- -

roneous choice.

For those of you not famil-
iar with Rick Warren, he’s the
somewhat slimy, uber—popular
conservative preacher and au-
thor of “The Purpose Driven
Life.” When he isn’t creating
mega-churches and meeting
with rock stars, spends his time
gay-bashing and supporting the
right wing unwaveringly.

Apparently, Obama and he
met several years ago and, in the
words of Mr. Obama, struck up a
relationship in which they could
“agree without being disagree-
able and then focus on those
things that we hold in common
as Americans.”

I hate to sound like a pessi-
mist, and I hate to sound intol-
erant, but while Obama may get
along well with Warren, and I
would love to live in a country
where we all could agree with-

 

out being disagreeable, that’s
not America right now.

Fact of the matter is, Rick
Warren is one of those antago-
nists who apparently cannot dis-
agree politely without forcing
his opinions on others.

The pulpit, no matter whose
pulpit it is, is no place for agen-
da, no matter whose agenda it
is.

Rick Warren abuses his posi-

to form, Obama tried to balance
the controversial pick of Rick
Warren by also inviting the Rt.
Rev. Gene Robinson, Episcopal
bishop of New Hampshire.....
who just happens to be the ﬁrst
openly gay bishop to be elected
in America. Gee, wonder why
he picked him.

Obama, as much as I admire
you, you have got to realize
that choosing two controversial

Why on earth would Obama, the demigoa’ of

the Democratic Party, choose to bring along
a heel like Rick Warren on the day of his ar-

rival at Olympus?

tion and, furthermore, he uses it
to preach intolerance and close-
mindedness. His prayer at the
inauguration, however polite,
was distinctly and unilaterally
Christian, a sharp contrast to
Obama’s open and all-inclusive
speech in which he mentioned
every major religion and non-
believers.

Obama is typically known
for having tolerant, open-mind-
ed inclinations and for favoring
a Lincoln-esque “Team of Ri-
vals” mentality.

Obama allegedly seeks to
bring the best of the best to-
gether to forge a better Amer-
ica, regardless of whether he
agrees with them or not. True

etiliorid

characters does not imply your
neutrality. .

They imply your hypocrisy.

An openly gay bishop and
an ultra-conservative preacher
may represent the two extremes
of the nation’s political-reli-
gious beliefs, and they may in
fact be good as advisors to the
president, but by choosing these
two ﬁgures for his inauguration
Obama only succeeded in send-
ing mixed messages and ticking
off a lot of Americans as well.

This time, Obama made a
newbie’s mistake. Either he is
too naive, or he is too optimistic
to realize that not everyone is as
open-minded as he is.

Issues of faith have long

been amongst the touchiest in
American history, and the issue
of homosexuality still stirs the
most heated debates in every
forum. Combining these two is-
sues and forcing extremes onto
the American public is not the
way to make friends.

On the day of the inaugura-
tion, the Human Rights Cam-
paign issued a statement saying
that “the pendulum has swung
away from the anti-gay forces
and toward a new president and
vice president who acknowledge
our [gay and lesbian] equal-
ity...our community and many
others are looking at a new day
of welcome and great promise.”
Here’s hoping that’s true.

Here’s hoping that Obama’s
dedication to political inclusion
does not hinder his self-pro-
claimed role as “a ﬁerce advo-
cate for equality for gay and
lesbian Americans.”

Because, frankly, Obama’s
actions aren’t matching up to
these words anymore. He barely
mentioned GLBT issues on the
campaign trail, made no state-
ments about Proposition 8, and
then promptly chose Rick War-
ren to bless his inauguration.

As much as I like Obama, my
enthusiasm for his progressiv-
ism is turning into trepidation.
I know there is no way a presi-
dent can achieve all he prom-
ises he makes on the campaign
trail, but there are some things
that just shouldn’t be forgotten.
Here’s hoping this isn’t what he
chooses to forget.

uit spilling that juice

We 7ve run out of patiencewaiting for W&L to grow up

For a few months, we held
our tongues. After all, what
people in their right minds would
want to speak poorly about
JuicyCampus?

None that don’t want their
names posted within the week.

But enough is enough.

Despite rush being ﬁnished
for the year; despite hundreds
of red-herring posts that mock
the very website; despite the
broadcast email earlier in the
year from student leaders con-
demning it—JuicyCampus is
still thriving at W&L.

Need proof? As of press time,
the 20 latest topics on the W&L
page had a total of 10,164 views
between them, meaning each
topic averaged over 500 views.
There were 305 replies to the
topics, for an average of over
15 each.

Let’s assume that out of
all these views, only half are
“original views,” meaning that
it was someone who hasn’t al-
ready looked at that topic. But
let’s also recognize that gossip
is something that’s wickedly
fun to do with other people. So
let’s say that 20% of the aver-
age views involved at least two
people reading the screen. Once
the math is done that means
around 355 actual people view
any given topic, on average.

There are 1,780 undergradu-
ate students at W&L. Let’s

assume that a meager 5%—89
students—are studying abroad

or are off campus for some

. other reason. That leaves 1,691

students on campus. All of this
means it’s entirely reasonable
to assume that around 20% of
the undergrad body sees any
given topic.

That’s unacceptable, “ladies”
and “gentlemen.”

Let’s assume that 10% of
all the comments made on an
average topic are positive (an

assumption that is ludicrously

generous). That means that, on
average, there are 13.5 libelous,
petty, mean, insulting, and de-
grading comments against any
person named on JuicyCampus.
To put two and two together,
that means if someone wants
to smear your good name, they
not only can, but an average of
12 other students will join in,
and a ﬁfth of the student body
will see it.

Assume only half of all those
people actually believe what
they read (again, we think this
is being generous to JuicyCam-
pus’ defenders).That means if
someone were to get on JuicyC-
ampus today and write “Reader
X is a slut with herpes,” when
you walk down the Colonnade
tomorrow a tenth of the students
you pass will think you have- an
STI. And that you’re a slut. And
you have little recourse except
for stoic acceptance.

It’s pathetic how little W&L
has done to protect its stu-
dents——itself—from this pow-

erful weapon against character,
honesty, and civility. It’s time
for the school’s leadership, both
student and non, to step in. What
is being written on the site is
getting worse. and it will be a
mark of shame for the Ruscio
years as well as this generation
of students if ‘we don’t act.

President Ruscio, it’s time for
you to step in, sir. You have the
moral authority to call personal
attacks on JuicyCampus what
they are—honor violations. You
must do so. You must do so
forcefully and often. Consider
also, sir, that you also have the
authority to ban the site from the
campus networks.

For us as journalists, this
is more problematic. No true
journalist wants to call for ban-
ning media. We’re a bit queasy
when it comes to censorship,
for understandable reasons. But,
considering that W&L already
blocks p2p engines like Bear-
Share, Kazaa, and Limewire,
we’re open to your thoughts.

Perhaps the idea of you play-
ing net-nanny gives you as
much pause as it gives us. But
as President of this school, your
priorities must be to protect your
students, even if the means for
that give you some personal
qualms. After all, consider the
following. ’

Last year you responded so
eloquently and forcefully when
only 64 students faced public
defamation in the “Bracket.”

If JuicyCampus is not
stopped, will those 64 will be
nothing compared to the years
of attacks absolutely anyone on
campus could face? Will more
than 64 students be smeared?
Will the cruelty be more forth-
right‘? Will the record be more
permanent and more available to
future employers?

Get back to us, sir. You’re
in the same company as Robert
E. Lee. Whether or not you like
it, you share his burden as an
arbiter and protector of what’s
honorable.

Students—ﬁght back. Who-
ever is posting all the hilarious
fake topics that spam the site
and make the whole thing seem
dumb, keep it up. At least one
Phi editor would love it if you
could explain the rules of cricket
to us. For all you loyal friends
who post comments defending
those who are attacked—you are
true W&L ladies and gentlemen
and not enough good can be said
about you.

IuicyCampus users~—grow
up. Hiding behind a wall of
anonymity while you attack your
peers, or homosexuals, or other
Greek houses, or minorities, is
repugnant to the extreme.

The other day, W&L’s Juicy-
Campus page saw its ﬁrst topic
with over 2,000 views and com-
ments in the triple digits.

For the sake of us all, let’s
make it the last.

  

 

  

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

 

MONDAY,

JANUARY 26, 2009

 

rts&|ife

 

Candidate tells her story

English applicant reads a portion of her memoir, audience members mark her as a favorite

By Findley Merritt
STAFF WRITER

Jasmin Darznik, as part of the
application process for a position
in Ethnic American Literatures
and Fiction, read part of her
memoir to faculty and students
Friday afternoon.

Darznik is the last of the three
ﬁnal candidates for the position.

Leslie Wheeler, English de-
partment head, said that out of
hundreds of applicants, this was
the ﬁnal phase.

Darznik stayed two days to-
tal, opting to teach one sample
class earlier before her reading.

She read the prologue and a
short section from her memoir,
“The Good Daughter”.

It is a story about her grand-
mother’s family, who lived in
Tehran, Iran during the 1920s.

The piece was about Iranian
customs and culture.

The narrative shifts back and
forth from Iran to the West Coast,
speciﬁcally San Francisco Bay.

In the story, Darznik explores
the evolution of her Grandmoth-
er’s name, “Cobra.”

Then, the narrative switches
to her grandmother’s days work-
ing as an Iranian seamstress.

Upon ﬁnding an old photo of
her grandmother and husband in
the prologue, she likens them to
“Elizabeth’s Taylor’s Cleopatra
and a sheepish version of Rich-
ard Burton.”

She recounts both the details
of her grandmother’s wedding
then switches back to her own
move to San Francisco.

Darznik ended her reading
there. She said that the memoir
continues in that fashion, criss-
crossing between two time peri-
ods and places.

A question and answer pe-

riod followed the reading.

Darnzik said that her mother
was the major source of infor-
mation for the memoir.

Her grandmother died before
writing the book, so Darznik had
to rely on accounts from other
family members.

When asked about her prepa-
ration for writing the memoir,
Darznik explained that her dis-
sertation on Iranian American
women was a starting point.

She relied on oral histories
from her family as well as multi-
volume encyclopedias.

The entire research process
took her six months. Then, she
avoided looking at her notes in
order to ﬁnd “her own voice,
rhythms, and aesthetics.”

When asked about the authen-
ticity of her work, she quickly
responded “It’s all true!”

Darznik said that because

most of her work came from mother’s veil.

family accounts, they would not
let her make something up.

Apparently, there were sever-
al of great stories that she did not
put in the story in order to avoid
those kinds of problems.

As for her mentor in writing
memoirs, Darznik quoted An-
nie Dillard. “In writing mem-
oirs, you don’t want to act like
a drunk.”

The turnout at the reading
was a good size, and majority of
the room was ﬁlled. — -

There were a lot of English
professors and mostly English
majors.

The students and faculty
members in the audience seemed
to really enjoy the reading.

There were laughs and
chuckles, especially when Dar-
znik demonstrated the “string
of blinking lights” on her grand-

Junior Catherine Carlock
said that “Of all the candidates
for the position, she was by far
my favorite.”

When asked about writing
in the future, Darznik said she
wanted to focus on novels and
possibly write a travel book.

However, both of these proj-
ects will also deal with Iranian
customs and traditions.

She is also currently working
on a historical novel that Ran-
dom House is publishing.

Iran has a fascinating history
that’s compelled me to do the
work I do,” she added at the end
of the reading.

“In the novel, Darznik tries to
construct the details of a famous
Iranian poet’s life using only her
poetry.

Darznik said that “her poetry
has been suppressed due to the

political situation. Therefore,
I have to frame her story using
my research and the work she’s
left behind.”

Jasmin Darznik earned a PhD
in Ethnic American Literature
from Princeton in 2007 and a JD
from UCSF in 1997.

Her dissertation concerned
literature by women of the Ira-
nian diaspora.

She is now a Steinbeck fel-
low in creative writing and an
adjunct professor at the Cali-
fornia College of the Arts. Her
ﬁrst book, a memoir called The
Good Daughter, is forthcom-
ing in 2009 from Grand Central
Press (and simultaneously with
several publishers in other coun-
tries.) She ‘is currently working
on a historical novel.

Jazz orchestra’s performance ﬂoods Wilson hall’

Knoxville Jazz Orchestra concert ‘blends the sounds of the old and new; includes pieces by W&L music professor

By Kimber Wiggs
STAFF WRITER

The second concert of the
SonoKlect music series took
place Saturday night on the Wil-
son Hall stage.

The concert was given by the
Knoxville Jazz Orchestra and
featured jazz compositions from
Stan Kenton’s Progressive Jazz
as well as original compositions
by W&L music professor Terry
Vosbein. Vosbein himself direct-
ed the concert, which was well
attended by members of both the
Washington and Lee and Lex-
ington communities.

The Knoxville Jazz Orches-
tra is led by trumpeter/arranger
Vance Thompson, who formed
the group in 1999. It consists of
ﬁve saxophones, ﬁve trombones,
ﬁve trumpets, and a rhythm sec-

Don’t eat the art!

Art exhibit features some delectable pieces  , 3 , , , ,, ,  ., - ,0 ,. ,2 ,, .,
I With l6-Across and 59-
By Katie Hatﬁeld  it was foimded in 55 if’ 17
STAFF WRITER 6 PM pm“ ,3 1., 2;;
Artists will often use daily life as an inspiration for their work. Some will 1’ M"‘“"?v""l‘ ‘ml’ ""“‘" 3; 33 33 2.;
photograph their children at play while others choose to capture a vibrant sun- 15 R““~"‘ I“ “""‘"‘§
set. Cleveland Morris, whose work is currently on display in Holekamp Hall, I5 5“ l‘-‘\C*°55- ““d- Will‘ 35 36 3" 21‘ 3‘? ‘"
wanted her audience to see an ordinary part of daily life in an entirely different .35‘f,"f"""ls 3"“ l3‘A°.'l’S”’
_ it was founded in I813: «H 33 33 34 35
“gm 17 Look into" i A ‘
Morris’ works focus primarily on normal, household objects: fruit slices 18 Take‘ umiomw meter ,6 37 A. 3,, 4,, 4,
tied up in neatly in bags, bright camations whose petals stand starkly against " I S -
neutral backgrounds, and various fruits intertwined with the wrinkles and folds 19 Ife chunks 42 4.» 44 45
of tissue paper. 29 (int, as an apple V ~
“They were really yummy,” said freshman Lauren Barden. 21 “slrclchcd K’ the hm“ .. 4‘ ‘*7 4“
The collection’s title, “In the Right Light,” was inspired by and based off of 23 R‘'m°‘''“ 3 hr” ,1 Q _ V?
a quotation from contemporary artist Aaron Rose: “In the right light, at the right 25 P““”d“““‘l° P"’P°“3’l°“ W S” 5! 5" A 54 )3 W 5'
time’ everythingis extraordinaryf’ 26 Go from second to third 58 59 M M 62
“My goal was to create drawings that shimmered above the surface of the 23 A““l.‘-"1-*5
paper, rather than grabbed on to it,” said Morris about the collection in his 3‘ T‘camtha%i=1aysinfh«* 65 M 65 66
Artist’s statement on display at the exhibit. _ l“°‘i C“‘"““” I
Through these mediums, Morris shows that even day-to-day objects can be 33 Bl¥h“'”‘l°d““5‘ 67 "3 I”) ‘ll’ 7‘
beautiful depending on the way light is captured and reﬂected in them. 34 MOM" 30°31“ 7, ,1 ,4
“When the light is right, the eye alert, and the mind open, the world is a - 35 3”“ ”"""“"*$ H 1' V
constant source of wonders,” said Morris. 35 T003‘ W’ €**l“"3’ 75 .76 7?
The artist actually created the collection with the McCarthy gallery setting 33 Orinoco. for one
in mind for its effective use of both natural and artiﬁcial lighting. 40 Be nuts about
Cleveland Morris, a still-life painter, exhibits his works mostly throughout I 42 l-Across, 16-Across, and
the mid-Atlantic region. He has been featured in 16 solo shows within the last ‘*3 -“met 75 Bucks and mm 13 WW “mam Wm mg“ 45 ‘mm

tion that includes piano, bass,

drums, guitar, and bongos. In

addition, both alto saxophon-
ists also play the ﬂute, which
was featured in several of the
night’s pieces. Though none of
the evening’s pieces were part of
the KJO’s usual repertoire, they
still brought to the music a pal-
pable energy and excitement.

The concert was divided into
two halves, separated by an in-
termission.

The first half of the program
consisted mostly of pieces ar-
ranged or composed for band
leader Stan Kenton’s Progres-
sive Jazz era, which reached
its height (and ended) in 1948.
Kenton’s band was known in the
‘40s for being experimental and,
at times, controversial, but still
achieved considerable success.

decade and several more group exhibitions.

“I am fond of his still life very much. The way the light hits the tissue and
fruit; you stand back and it is so real,” said Lynda Bassett deMaria, the special

events coordinator and special programs liaison for the Williams School. “He 43 "p~v¢h" n~»iwoi'I>: Fwis
really is an approachable artist.” 49 T’ :1 [d if ._

The artist, who resides in nearby Staunton, VA, got his undergraduate de- 0 Pf‘ h°'h"l”‘ Down
gree from Yale University, before continuing his studies at the West of England 5 '1“ W’ "ml I missy
College of Art, and the Delaware Center for Contemporary Art. He currently 52 l:"“l‘"“d‘ 2 Stick It)
teaches part-time at Staunton’s Beverley Street Studio School and Stuart Hall, 54 ”"“'l" “"5" 3 plum, mm
as well as at Southern Virginia University located in Buena Vista. {I8 w““‘ PM”? 4 g.md,,y _,~e,,L,>

.Morris’ works have earned him honors including the Nell Cook-Byers Merit 6" Relaled 1“-Wmﬁllt‘ 5 Bwbs
Award in 2002. He was also the recipient of both Judge’s Choice and Honor- 61 l‘3m'~‘“‘"5-’ Abbﬁ 5 R,,hem_,,;m_,
able Mention at the Bath County A.rt.S.how this past year. . .  -"-P1?-‘tics’ imd Nlwne 7 guildmg addition

In addition to teaching and exhibiting, Cleveland Morris has also judged at 65 It was founded m 1869 8 Tap
the Bridgewater College Annual Student Exhibition and the Nelson Fine Arts o7 Dry as a bone 9 -,,A“d  came Maude,
Gallery 5 Annual Paint Out Invitational. 69 Attack 1 0 Gﬁdc aim“: Qmnmﬁousgy

The collection will hang in the McCarthy Gallery of Holekamp Hall from 7) Dick (';ravsaii's aIIer—ego .

. . . , ' I 1 Natiimals, oiicc

January 15th until June 10th. The gallery is open Monday through Friday from 72 Nap

8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The paintings, which are available for purchase range in 13
prices from $150 to $950.

Some of the most controversial
scores 'were composed by Bob
Graettinger, though most of the
music was written by Pete Ru-
golo, Kenton’s chief arranger.
Both Graettinger and Rugolo
experimented with an “Afro-
Cuban” sound in some of their
works, as did Vosbein in one
of his new pieces, “Ahora es el
Tiempo.”

The concert’s nine original
Vosbein pieces, three of which
were performed before the inter-
mission, make up A Tale of Two
Cities. Vosbein composed this
collection over the past year,
while living concurrently in
Paris and Copenhagan. He was
inspired to return to big band
music after having spent three
months studying the Stan Ken-
ton Archives at the University of

North Texas. The ﬁrst half of the
concert was organized such that,
for the most part, the pieces al-
ternated between fast and slow,
culminating in Vosbein’s “A
Slow and Fast Blues.” The ap-
propriately-titled piece was an
excellent way to end Act I and
ﬁt well with the Progressive
Jazz pieces.

The seven works of Act II
were all of Vosbein’s composi-
tion except for the last. Many of
Vosbein’s works featured solo
trombones, which he expressed
as one of his favorite solo instru-

, ments.

The last three of these piec-
es also prominently featured
the electric guitar and electric
bass. Vosbein made a point to
feature several members of the
Knoxville Jazz Orchestra and

to acknowledge each of them
numerous times throughout the
performance. His gratitude to
group was unmistakable. As he
informed the audience, notes
on paper do not make a sound,
so to have his music performed
by such talented musicians was
very gratifying. His own ex-
citement about the works was
evident in way he threw himself
into his conducting.

The ﬁnale of the night was
not an original work by Vos-
bein but by Stephen Sondheim.
After completing the music for
this concert, Vosbein set to work
arranging Sondheim’s Sweeney
Todd for big band. “Johanna”
is the ﬁrst completed song and,
thus, completed the evening. If
Vosbein’s arrangement of “Jo-
hanna” is any indication, his big

band version of Sweeney Todd
will be very exciting. Hearing
the ballad in the big band setting
brought a whole new dimension
to the piece and once again re-
affirmed Vosbein’s love of the
trombone, which carried lovely
“Johanna” melody.

Before the concert began,
Vosbein described what was to
come as a “bath of music.” In-
deed, the concert was akin to a
musical ﬂood washing over the
packed house. The» trumpets
screamed, the trombones wailed,
and everyone in the Concert Hall
felt the years melt away in the
melding of old and new big band
sounds. The audience awarded
the KJO with a standing ovation,
and at least one enthusiastic fan
greeted the evening with a quiet,
yet triumphant “yes.”

"Tl‘i€”

45 I969 Simon and _
Gzxrfriiik-21 single, with 70

«-67 Fine-grained wood

See I6-Across
74 “Silas Marner" author

Founding Brothers by Neville L. F ogarty

Head over to ringtzimphicrossword.biogspot.com to check your solution to this week's puzzle!

many waterfalls
7’? Eighties band ________ __for

-
l~J

Site ofzi steamy 1383
even:

Game that can result iii

cut

14 Tum black. iiiaybe

I 22 C‘hai'lie of ”’l‘wo and 21

Hall" Men"

24 Hugh Jackman will host
them in Febinazy

27 Strength

29 i’v1z\tei‘iaE measurement

30 Autlmr Grafton of the
Kinsey Millhone series

32 Old (.“iei'maii ducky name

34 (:)ui's opposite

37 Ilamnguc

39 Sliawn Johnson or Herbert
Hoover

41 "‘I3iteiius ‘‘‘‘‘‘‘ H‘‘

42 .»\par1’mem type

43 Eiiiiilaie Fatlier Damien
Kui'i':is frotria l97I novel

44 Where to get 2: W(.)]‘l\‘l‘ﬂIf

46 Clear the tablrxs

si Subsidiary imuiidas
53 Shells and bow ties

55 Lixwreiicds land

56 Near-graduate

57 "Fear Factor" challenges
59 See l-Across

60 City near Diisseldorf
61 Everglades wader

64 A.s"litoii‘s wife

V 66 ABC.‘ reality sliow. with

67 Append _
68 1973 Suprexne Court

70 roll

vrrrhclt

decision nzime

9

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26,2009 THE RING-TUM PHI ° 7

sports

  Lady Generals crush Emory & Henry  

 

Women is basketball beats the Wasps 78-46 behind 25 points from Meghan Ingram

By Wlll Dorrance

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
basketball team hosted Emory & Henry
(E&H) to a Saturday afternoon ODAC
game. The Generals trampled all over
their opponents, winning 78-46.

Entering the game Saturday, W&L
was 6-8 (6-4 ODAC) and in a three-
way tie for fourth place in the confer-
ence while the Wasps sat at 3-10 (2-7
ODAC) with a ninth-place ODAC
ranking.

 

It never really was a game as W&L
scored the ﬁrst basket and didn’t look
back. The home team led at the break,
44-23, and increased that lead to as

many as 35 points in the second half.

The Generals were paced by ﬁrst-
year guard Meghan Ingram’s 25 points,
her third highest scoring output of the
season. Ingram went 8 for 13 from the
ﬁeld including 5 for 7 behind the three-
point arc.

Of her success Saturday night, In-
gram said, “I had a lot of open looks
because they had to help off inside so
much to guard our taller post players.
I was also in a shooting slump for the
previous two games, so it was a relief
to ﬁnally have some shots go in.”

One of those post players, sopho-
more center Felice Herman recorded
her ﬁrst double-double of the season,
scoring 14 points and 10 rebounds.

Junior forward Alex Lyons was the
only E&H player in double digits with
15 points. The 46 points that E&H
scored on Saturday was the team’s
lowest total in any conference game
all season. The Wasps shot just 35.8
percent from the floor and committed

“I had a lot of open looks because they had to help

oﬂ inside so much to guard our taller post players.

I was also in a shooting slump for the previous two

games, so it was a relief to ﬁnally have some shots

1

go in. ’

Meghan Ingram, ﬂrst-year guard

27 turnovers.

W&L also ‘edged E&H on the
boards, 38-30. Ingram found this to be
an important factor in the team’s win.
“The thing we wanted to improve on
the most at this point in the season was
our defensive rebounding. We were
able to hold them to 46 points because
we made a point to box out and get re-
bounds, which really cut down on their
opportunities to score,” she said.

W&L still trails in the all-time se-
ries against E&H, 12-18.

Now at 7-8 on the year, W&L hosts
neighboring Southern Virginia on
Tuesday for a 7:00 p.m. tip-off. The
Generals will be looking for their ﬁrst
non-conference win of the year.

According to Herman, the team will
enter Tuesday’s game with a similar
mindset to Saturday night. “We need
to focus on improving our rebound-
ing and maintaining our defensive
presence. Again, playing relaxed and
together is the key to our success as
well as belief in our team unity,” she

President of the Panhellenic
Council, Pi Beta Phi Sorority,

A President/ Captain W&L Polo
Team, University Scholar,
Peer Tutor, Staff Writer for
"The Spectator", Phi Eta
Sigma, Order of Omega,
ODK

Profiles
in

Leadership:
jackie DiBiasie

What energizes you about taking on the respon-
sibilities of campus leadership? “I think the greatest
power of universities is their ability to change students. ‘ We
come to college not only to learn about academic subjects,
but to become greater people. I am energized about the
organizations I am involved in because of the difference they
can make in the lives of students of W&L. We are so lucky
to attend a University that values student self—governance so
highly. This is a blessing and a great responsibility.”

What has been one of the most rewarding as-
pects of leadership at W&L? “My experience in Pa.nhel-
lenic rewarded me in several ways. Before taking office, I
didn't really pay attention to women's issues. Now, I am
very involved in gender issues and how to improve life for
women at Washington and Lee, which has even impacted
and directed my thesis. I also discovered that I really enjoy
leadership of this nature and now look forward to pursuing
University Administration in the future. Watching initiatives
I have helped to start slowly begin a positive change is the
most rewarding aspect of leadership.”

Tomorrow’s Leadership Seminar:
Emotional Intelligence
12:15 and 6:30 PM, Room 214 Eltod Commons
Explore three fundamental facets that contribute to the lead-
ership dynamic: consciousness of context, self & others

I 9
gméa 4 Qzataamnt
PEDAL CAR DINER &. TIN Tor Cm‘.

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfar one afour ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffers.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Fat Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar ‘iopm-Zam
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Weekﬁam-11am
Daily Hot Country Ear item-tepm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar tlamdﬂpm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

Home Cooked Meals & Souzltem .lIospitaIiIy.’
Located at

IIIIIIMIIIIIIZI

l~8l {st I-64. Exit. $95, 25 I6 North Lee llwy, l..c:scingt<m_, VA

5-’l(l~463-3478

Eran? food at a great collection of
Antique Pedal Cars at Tin Toys?

 

said.

After hosting the SVU Knights
Tuesday, W&L will begin a nine-game
span of conference opponents to end
the season, beginning with Guilford
on Friday. The Generals have already
faced all nine of these ODAC teams
this year.

“We are very excited about seeing
these teams again for the second time.
We lost a lot of games by single digits,
which proves we’re capable of compet-
ing with any team in the ODAC,” said
Ingram.

Herman echoed her teammate’s
comments. “We feel very conﬁdent
going into the second half of confer-
ence play. We just need to continue
to play relaxed and have fun because
that is when we [play] at our best. We
don’t need to prove anything to other
teams because the second half of the
season is about us and improving our
game,” she said.

Colts coach Tony Dungy retires

Allen argues that Dungy will go down as one of NFL 3 greatest

By Crlghton Allen
c o L u M N I sr

On Jan. 12, 2008, the world of sports
lost a great man to retirement, a ﬁgure at
the height of his professional prowess that
possessed a character beyond reproach.
This man accomplished things that none
in his profession ever had before, shat-
tered a racial barrier and accomplished it
all with a quiet strength and dignity that he
proudly attributed to his Savior.

Who is this man, a man that command-
ed the unﬂinching loyalty of his players,
the deep respect of his opponents and adu-

Smith, were the ﬁrst two African-Ameri-
cans to coach in a Super Bowl, he replied,
in typical Dungy fashion, that he was
more proud of the fact that both men were
Christians.

Dungy’s accomplishments have done
much to further diversity among the
coaching ranks; three other of the league’s
minority head coaches, Mike Tomlin,
Lovie Smith and his successor at the Colts,
Jim Caldwell, all coached under Dungy.
Dungy was instrumental in the establish-
ment of the Rooney Rule, a rule instituted
in 2003 that requires NFL teams to inter-
view minority candidates for head coach-

What the game of football has lost with his retirement, the

world at large has gained, as Dungy will now commit the

huge amounts of time he has poured into football all these

years back into the community he cares so much about.

lation from almost anyone who followed
sports? What can one man have done to
be so great?

This man is named Tony Dungy, and he
is a teacher. Tony Dungy served as a head
coach in the National Football League
for twelve years, from 1996-2008 with
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and the In-
dianapolis Colts. Over that time span, he
accumulated a resume that compares fa-
vorably against those of the all-time great
coaches with names like Shula, Parcells,
and Walsh.

In thirteen years, he had twelve win-
ning seasons. He became the ﬁrst head
coach to defeat all 32 NFL teams. ‘At 25,
he became the youngest assistant coach in
NFL history and at 28 the youngest coor-
dinator. The crown jewel on his resume
came in 2007, a World Championship gar-
nered with a victory in Super Bowl XLI
over the Chicago Bears.

With that victory, Dungy became only
the third man ever to win a' Super Bowl
ring as both a player and a coach; he
played defensive back on the 1977-1978
Championship Pittsburgh Steelers team.
With his victory, Dungy made history,
becoming the ﬁrst ever African American
coach to win a Super Bowl. While this is
undoubtedly very signiﬁcant, Dungy him-
self made the point that he hopes for a day
when mentioning and celebrating the race
of the coach will not be needed.

Indeed, when asked if he was proud
that he and his coaching opponent, Lovie

I
ing vacancies.

Dungy speaks frequently about his
coaching philosophy, one in which he says
that a coach is ﬁrst and foremost a teacher.
He stresses the importance of priorities;
in his own life, he placed his faith and
his family ahead of football and encour-
aged all his players to do the same. Dungy
teaches that coaches should be models of
calmness, never screaming at or belittling
players.

He believes in the value of all 53 play-
ers on the roster; he takes pride in giving
the 33rd player on the roster the same at-
tention as the third player in order to foster
a sense of common purpose and unity, re-
gardless of what personnel happens to be
on the ﬁeld. This philosophy made Dungy
one of the most respected names in the
coaching world, and his strategy has be-
gin to be adopted by many other coaches.

As much as Dungy has done for and in
the game of football, his character has won
him the most respect. In 2005, the sports
world stood by in respectful awe as Dungy
bore the unimaginable tragedy surround-
ing the suicide of his eldest son James with
quiet dignity, holding fast to his great faith
that has deﬁned his life since the begin-
ning. Indeed, his faith resonates in all as-
pects of his life. He has given generously
of his time and resources to a variety of
outreach ministries, including the Fellow-
ship of Christian Athletes, Family First
and foster parents organizations. .

Most important in all of these, and
what led Dungy to walk away from coach-

V 1

ing at the height of his prowess, has been
a prison outreach ministry. Dungy has
spoken numerous times on how he feels
drawn to this higher calling, to share the
Gospel with the imprisoned. For all his
involvement in the community, in 2007,
President George W. Bush bestowed upon
Dungy a high honor, that of membership
on the President’s Council on Service and
Civic Participation.

Dungy, throughout his whole life, has
truly personiﬁed the cliche’ of being an
ambassador for the game. To Dungy, faith,
family, patience, duty and honor are more
than talking points; they are principles
around which Dungy has built a life wor-
thy of the highest respect. What the game
of football has lost with his retirement, the
world at large has gained, as Dungy will
now commit the huge amounts of time
he has poured into football all these years
back into the community he cares so much
about.

Dungy is, without a doubt, a Hall of
Fame coach. Yet, more importantly, he
belongs in the hall of fame of life for all
he has done and what he plans to do. I
wish Tony Dungy the best of luck in his
future endeavors. No matter what chal-

lenges his new career as a prison minister
may pose, Dungy will bear them with the
same quiet strength that saw him through
the the toughest times of both his private
and professional lives.

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26,2009

  sports

 

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

 
   

            

Mon Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT

  

 

. vs
Men's a"d°"”" Randolph
M
Basketball 7 ac;n 2 mm
vs t
a
w0m9n's Southern
Basketbal Vlrglnla Gumord
7 P m 7 p.m.
at
Menis Johns
Swlmmln Hopklns
~11 a.m.
at
wolnenrs Johns
swimmlngr Hopkins
’ 11 a.m.
at
¥'I_°a':: A Bucknell
3:30 p.m.
I at
Women's
Track Bucknell
' 3:30 p.m.
at vs
wresulng Southern Johns
Virginia Hopkins
7 p.m. 10 a.m.

 

61

The number of years since the Arizona Cardinals franchise (Chicago,
St. Louis, Arizona) has been to the NFL Championship. The Cardinals
will face off against the Pittsburgh Steelers in Super Bowl XLl|l on Sun-
day. The Chicago Cubs are the only team in the four major profession-

al sports leagues to have a longer championship drought (100 years).

11

The record-setting number of NFL head-coaching changes from the
2008 until the 2009 season. Most recently, the Kansas City Chiefs

fired Herm Edwards after three years.

100-0

The score of a Texas high school girls basketball game last week as .

the Covenant School crushed Dallas Academy.

$18 million

The salary request of Philadelphia Phillies ﬁrst baseman Ryan Howard
in arbitration Tuesday. This is the third highest arbitration request (be-
hind Roger Clemens and Derek Jeter) since MLB began the process
in 1974. Howard helped the Phillies win the World Series last season

with a major-league leading 48 home runs and 146 RBIs.

29th

Seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong's finish in the Tour

Down Under, his first professional stage race since coming back to cy-

cling affter a three—and—a—half year retirement.

box

“I won’t cheer. I ’m going to stay objective. I ’ve

 

come too far to suddenly show up in the press
box with pompoms. But if you could put a moni-
tor on my insides, you’d ﬁnd a whole fan club in
there.”

Minnesota Spokesman-Recorder sportswriter Larry Fitzgerald Sr. on
covering Super Bowl XLlll—ln which his son, Arizona Cardinals all-pro
wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald Jr., will be playing. courtesy of ESPN
The Magazine. 1

“I'll wash the dishes and take out the trash, what-
ever you want me to do, dear.” I

Seven-time NBA all-star Alonzo Mourning at his retirement press
conference Thursday after his wife asked from the front row what his
retirement plans were. Mourning, who played 15 NBA seasons, turns
39 next month. Courtesy of the Miami Herald.

W&L wins third

straight

MOGRAN HARRIS/ Staff Photographer

Senior forward Ben Heller tries to mantain his balance as he grabs one of his seven rebounds in a home
game against Hampden-Sydney Saturday. The Generals beat the Tigers, 73-60, behind junior forward

Zac White’s 19-point performance.

Men is basketball breezes by Hampden—Sydney Saturday

By Hank Nathan
STAFF WRITER

The Washington & Lee men’s basket-
ball team beat the Hampden-Sydney Ti-
gers 73-60 on Saturday night.

One game after head coach Adam
Hutchinson won his 50th game as the
W&L coach, the team improved its
Coach
Hutchinson attributes camaraderie for the
success of the team midway through the

winning streak to three games.

season.

“Our strengths are our resiliency and
our faith in each other,” said Hutchinson.
“I have never been around a team with
chemistry as good as this one.”

At the same point in time last year,
the Generals were 11-5 overall. After the
win against Hampden-Sydney, this year’s
squad is now 12-4, and this without two
of the program’s best players in Greg Bi-
enemann and
F emi Kusimo
who gradu-
ated last year.
Senior guard
Isaiah Good-
credits
the next man up philosophy for the team’s
ability to replace those players.

“It’s been really cool to see how the
team has evolved in the past year,” said
Goodman. “It wasn’t as much of a loss of
Greg and Femi, as it was an adjustment of
other guys stepping up  I think that is
the mark of a good program; when all the
seniors are gone next year, it won’t be a
loss, just another step in the evolution.”

Team chemistry and players stepping
up was on perfect display against Hamp-
den-Sydney Saturday night.

Early in the game, the Tigers took
a small four-point lead, but sophomore
guard Jason Cimino came off the bench
and ignited the Generals with a pair of
three-pointers. Then, with 13:58 left in
the ﬁrst half, W&L took its ﬁrst lead of
the game on a shot from behind the are by
senior guard Chris McHugh to make the
score 12-11. In total, the Generals went 9
of 18 from three-point land.-

Senior forward Ben Heller also came
off the bench and helped spark the team
with his low—post presence. At the 12:50
mark in the ﬁrst half, Heller grabbed an
offensive rebound after two W&L misses
and cleaned up the garbage with a layup
of his own. On the next possession, Heller
was fouled while down on the right post
and knocked down the foul shots to ex-
tend the Washington & Lee lead to 16-11.
In thecontest, Heller totaled 16 points and
added 7 boards.

 

man

“We are going to get tested over this next stretch of A

games. Winning at this time of year comes down to

whether we dowhat we do better than they do what they

do. I really like our team and our chances. ’

Adam Hutchinson, head coach

)

 

Hampden-Sydney battled back to knot
the score at 20 with 4:50 to play in the ﬁrst
half. However, the Generals took control
from then on and never relinquished the
lead for the rest of the game.

Although the score was within six
points at the end of the ﬁrst half, 31-25,
the Generals extended the lead early in
the second frame and maintained a com-
fortable cushion throughout. W&L’s wid-
est margin was 15 points when senior
forward Kirk Jones banked in a layup off
of the glass while being fouled. The team
went in cruise control for the rest of the
game.

One of the biggest improvements in
this year’s team has been its defense. The
play that demonstrated this commitment
to defense the most came from W&L’s se-
nior captain Goodman. With 3:56 remain-
ing in the game and the Generals up 13,
Goodman out-hustled a Hampden-Syd-
ney player to a loose ball at mid-court and
wound up with the steal.

“We wear teams down by playing a
physical, relentless man-to-man defense
for 40 minutes,” said Cimino.

One of the major subplots of the game

was the battle between the ODAC’s
leading scorer Turner King (21 points
per game) and W&L’s leading scorer ju-
nior forward Zac White (11.2 points per
game). But this one was a no contest as
White tallied 19 points with 17 coming in
the second half, while King did not score
a point.

“We knew he was a great scorer, so all
week we had been studying their offense

I trying to ﬁgure out how to limit his touch-

es,” said White. “Also, he was in foul
trouble during the game, so that may have
something to do with it. He was clearly a
little frustrated.”

‘On Wednesday at 7:00 p.m., the Gen-
erals host Randolph-Macon, the ﬁrst place
team in the ODAC.

“We are going to get tested over
this next stretch of games,” said Coach
Hutchinson. f‘Winning at this time of year
comes down to whether we do what we
do better than they do what they do. I re-
ally like our team and our chances”.

 

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

Senior forward Ben Heller goes for two of his 16 points Saturday
night in an ODAC victory over Hampden-Sydney. The Generals are
now 12-4 overall and 5-2 in the conference.

 

