  

 

NEWS / page 2

WASHINGN LEE UNIVERSITY

HE RING-TUM PHI.

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII,

NUMBER 22

Q;

’ Rockbridge Rapids to open season

Brand new baseball team, including W&Lfs Chuck Davidson, starts on June 5; will play home games at W&L

‘I

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

After many months of plan-
ning, the Rockbridge Rapids, a
new team in the Valley Baseball
League, are set to begin their in-
augural season on June 5. The
Rapids will play all their home
games at Washington and Lee’s
Captain Dick Smith Field.

Founded in 1923, the Valley
Baseball League (VBL) is de-
signed to give top-level college
baseball players ‘ an opportunity
to play competitive baseball dur-
ing the summer.

The Rapids will play in the

South Division, along with the
Covington Lumberjacks, Har-
risonburg Turks, New Market
Rebels, Staunton Braves and
Waynesboro Generals. The teams
comprising the North Division
include the Fauquier Gators,
Front Royal Cardinals, Haymar-
ket Senators, Luray Wranglers,
Winchester Royals and Wood-

stock River Bandits.

Jim Crothers, a 1966 W&L
graduate, serves as the team’s
president. He explained why the
team joined the league. “The Val-
ley League is very prestigious, is
well-established, and has good
credibility and history,” he said.

Known as the “Gateway to the
Majors,” the league has devel-
oped far more than l,000 profes-
sionals in its extended history.

In January, the team an-
nounced the hiring of Mark
Mace as the head coach. Mace,
currently the head coach at East-
ern Mennonite, is a Rockbridge
County native. He said he is
excited for the season to begin.
“It’s just a wonderful opportunity
for me on the coaching end and
having an extra bonus of being
home,” he said.

Mace, Crothers and general
manager Ken Newman jointly re-
cruited all 32 players on the ros-
ter. Mace shared his strategies
throughout the recruiting process.

“My goal was to recruit a young
team and a team that was fast,”
he said. “That’s what the Rapids
are going to look like.”

A 1971 W&L graduate, New-
man said they considered more
than baseball talent when search-
ing for players. “We were looking

summer, he said, “It was an op-
portunity I couldn’t pass up. It
allows me to keep playing com-
petitively over the summer, play
with some of the top players
around the nation and contribute
to a top-level organization.”
Each Rapids player will be

“It allows me to keep playing competitively

over the summer, play with some of the top

players around the nation. ”

chuck Davldsoni W&L Iunlor rlﬁht-hander and Rapids player

for good ballplayers, individuals
who represent themselves. We
feel very strongly that we want to
have the right type of players on
and off the field.”

W&L’s junior right-hander
Chuck Davidson is the only Rap-
ids player from a Division III
school. Looking forward to the

paired with a host family for their
two-month stay in Lexington.
According to Newman, in addi-
tion to nullifying lodging costs,
the housing program serves other
beneﬁts for the players and the
organizations. ‘

“It’s an important part of the
program because with having our

players stay with families, they
learn a lot about our community,”
he said.

On the ﬁeld, the team expects
to be vying for a top spot in the
VBL standings. Mace said his
goal for the season is to be one
of the eight teams to make the
playoffs. “Once you get into the
playoffs, then you have a second
season. You can worry about that
then,” he said.

Crothers agreed with this
comment. “We were at a team
meeting on Thursday, and...
everyone talked about wanting
to ‘kick each others’ butts,’ and
that’s what we want to do.”

He continued, “We plan to be
competitive, and we think we’ve
got some really good players. We
recognize, on the other hand, that
we don’t have the long-term con-
nections with the big boys in col-
lege baseball, such as Miami and
LSU.”

Mace is excited to start the
team’s ﬁrst season. “The Rapids’

being an expansion team is an
advantage for us because the tone
we set this year will kind of be
echoed for years to come. I think
the kids are going to buy into the
responsibility of the Rockbridge
Rapids. Hey, the way we play is
going to be the way the Rapids
are,” Mace said.

Crothers and the rest of the
Rockbridge Rapids are ready
to ﬁnally get the season under
way. ‘‘I anticipate it’s going to be
fantastic. The buzz on the street
and the word from community
groups, from sports fans, families
throughout the community has
been outstanding. We’Ve had ter-
riﬁc support from our sponsors,”
he said.

“I’ve said this many times:
[baseball] belongs in places like
Lexington.”

 

UNIVERSIW LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE umveasnv
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

   

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

TUESDAY, MAY 26,2009

MAY 2 8 Zillﬂ

 

Goshen

continued from page 1

the economy of the selected location” because
of the number of visitors it attracts.

The Lexington City Council voted in April to
support the BSA’s efforts to move to Goshen be-
cause of the potential for positive economic im-
pact.

To confront some of these issues, the Rock-
bridge Area Conservation Council (RACC) held
an informational meeting and community forum at
Rockbridge County High School on May 13. The
meeting allowed representatives ﬁom the BSA to
speak and community members to voice their opin-
ions.

The meeting brought up the major concerns of

Rockbridge County residents and the BSA: the
safety of the dam, availability of water, water qual-
ity, sewage, trafﬁc and emergency evacuation.

The development will also require the construc-
tion of several roads and a system for trash remov-
al, among other necessary facilities.

One community member at the meeting was
especially concerned with the problem of dealing
with an emergency during the Jamboree. He does
not think the area will be properly prepared. “My
fear is that Scouts are going to die as a result,” he
said.

But Kary Smout, an English professor at W&L
who helped organize the forum with RACC, em-

phasized there are lots of mixed opinions on both
sides of the issue and that no decision has been
made yet. The BSA will spend time studying the
area before deciding how to act, and if the prob-
lems cannot be solved, the Jamboree will not be
held at the chosen location.

Goshen may be the BSA’s top choice, but Sm-
out said the decision is “absolutely not a done deal”
and “very much still in process.” He acknowledged
that Rockbridge County residents have reason to
be concerned, but he said there is nothing to panic
about yet.

The Jamboree has previously been held at Fort
A.P. Hill in Caroline County, near Richmond.

The next Jamboree after the location change is
scheduled for 2013, but the BSA said the date will
probably be pushed back because of the criticisms
being raised.

Recognizing outstanding Generals

Five seniors win the Ring-tum Phi award for their leadership and contributions to the Washington and Lee community

By Findley Merritt and Jessica Strait
STAFF wrursns

An involved recruiter

Dima Slavin displays W&L pride through several
activities; read an interview with this devoted and well-
rounded tour guide and fraternity brother

What do you think you have contributed to W&L?

My contributions are varied. I don’t think I have done a single thing that the school couldn’t have
found someone else to do. However, it would have taken a lot of different people to do all that I’ve
done, since I have been involved in so many different things. Someone from my fraternity would
have had to take up the massive work, stress and time commitment of being president. Someone
from the SRC would have to take on the work commitment of being a co-chair, along with com-
mitments in various other organizations. I am sure that those people could be found, but by being
around, I managed to ﬁll all those roles and keep many diﬂerent wheels at this University turning.

What are your plans after graduation? Where else were you accepted?

I am going to Yale Law School next year where hopefully I can continue a lot of
what I have been doing at W&L (especially theater). My acceptance list is long (14 law
schools) but I chose Yale most immediately over Harvard and Columbia Law Schools.

What have you learned at W&L?

It would take pages to describe everything I’ve learned in my four years. To sum it up in one word:
service. I have been amazed by the willingness of W&L students to help each other, the school, the com-
munity and the world. In every class I have taken and activity I participated in, there have been people
willing to step up to leadership positions because they felt like working for others. A lot of these people
- whether they are recruitment chairs or house managers of fraternities or secondary leaders of our many
charitable organizations - never get any kind of recognition around campus. I have never been around so
many such people, and I think I picked up a lot from my fellow students and professors of this mindset.

What else are you involved in on campus?
I have gotten involved in W&L Theater this year after being amazed with the work that our actors
and actresses and crew do. I love being around them, and I hope my performances are as enjoyable

“I think the most important quality for a leader to have is selﬂess-

ness. I have always taken as role models people who prefer to stay

1

out of the limelight but manage to change lives. ’

as theirs have always been for me. As for being president of my fraternity, I did it because someone
had to, and I was willing to take on the responsibilities. I have also been involved with both Hillel
and Reformed University Fellowship, embracing both my parents’ religion. Being a tour guide, and a
leader in the SRC, is, like theater, a way for me to combine my love of talking with my love for W&L.

What do you think makes a leader? Who do you look up to, on campus or off?

As I said earlier, I think the most important quality for a leader to have is selﬂessness. I have
always taken as role models people who prefer to stay out of the limelight but manage to change
lives. Any professor who, rather than writing a letter to the editor, encourages a student to take
action falls under this category. So do stage managers of shows and chiefs of staff of politicians.

You’re involved with Student Recruitment Committee. What do you do for that, and why did you
decide to become involved?

I was, until a month ago, Co-Chair for Attendance and Special Tours. As such, I had to make sure
that our tour guides showed up for their tour times, or found substitutes if they could not. I would also
schedule tour guides for special tours such as school visits, Johnson Scholar week, Admitted Students
Day, etc. Before that, I served for a year as Co-Chair for Special Projects. In both of those positions, I
had the honor of being part of the team that chose new tour guides, and I am very proud of the guides we
have chosen so far. Of course, I have also been a tour guide the entire time and that is the part of the job
I have enjoyed most. Being such a small school, it is rare to meet new people at W&L, but being a tour
guide, you always get to meet people new to Lexington and show them everything is wonderful at W&L.

How has W&L changed you?

Surprisingly, after four years of studying hard and doing the most concentrated learning of my career
as a double major, my biggest changes is that I am more well rounded. I came in to W&L as a bit of a nerd,
my only hobbies outside school were hockey and debate. Now I head to law school worrying that I will not
be able to set aside enough time for academics with everything else I hope to do. My friends freshman year
did a great job pushing me out of my shell, and not even Yale Law is going to be able to put me back in it.

Becoming more aware

Regina Mills seeks to shine light on sexual assault and
women is health issues on campus

You’re part of KEWL on campus. What do you think Love Your Body week helped to accom-
plish?

I have been a member of the executive board of KEWL since sophomore year. I have been a member
since I ﬁrst arrived.. Love Your Body Week has helped increase increase awareness and anger people
about the things students, especially women, feel they must hide, namely the ubiquitous experiences of
sexual assault, body image problems, etc. Students on this campus didn’t start asking about sexual ha-
rassment - I’ve seen a couple of opinion pieces recently which have used that term and that is incorrect.
they asked about the real problem of sexual assault. [Over 20 percent] of women on this campus have
experienced “unwanted sexual touching,” which is not harassment. It is assault. I think we made people
aware of the issues of reporting and made students think about where victims have to turn.

“Those who make change care very greatly about the endeavors
they undertake and I think they cause others to care about them
and look for change as well. They are not aﬁraid to have their

voices heard. ”

What made you decide to become involved with KEWL?

I received a letter in the mail over the summer from the KEWL leadership. Even though at the time I
did not do anything or know anything about the status of women’s rights on this campus or in society in
general, I was pulled to the idea of being surrounded by strong women who wanted to change things.

Do you think the issues raised led to campus issues involving the EC and sexual harrassment?
Does KEWL plan to do this again next year?

A lot more questions have been asked about SFHB, CAIR, and other means by which the school
deals with sexual assault. Thus, when the student body meeting was held, these issues dominated the
discussion because they had been on people’s minds for a long time. I think some very important things
were revealed, some uplifting, but many disheartening. I hope that the combination of LYBW and the
student body meeting spurred some students to act. I know that I often feel like I got started on these
issues too late because I didn’t know enough and didn’t know where to look until senior year. KEWL
and the student body meeting helped some leaders on this campus by making sure they can skip these
inforrnation-gathering steps and get to ﬁxing the problems. LYBW is deﬁnitley planned for next year
and I hope to hear about it - even when I’m in Phoenix.

Do you hold any other leadership positions on campus?

I’ve been on the Ladies’ Club Board as Health and Fitness Chair, served as the ﬁnancial and corre-
sponding secretary of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., served as vice president and president of KEWL
, been the Culture and Education Director of WLUR 91.5 as well as a host of She Speaks radio show
since spring term freshman year and volunteered at Project Horizon.

What have you learned at W&L, and how has it changed you?

I found my passion at W&L, which is dealing with issues of gender equity in every area of society.
I never thought I’d ﬁnd that passion here, since being a feminist or being an activist for pretty much
any cause seems to raise eyebrows here. I didn’t come here either of those things, but I’m glad to be
both now. I have learned that if you wait for someone to change something, you can’t expect anything
to change. Also, very rarely can you get something done solely on your own. You need to build support
systems and make people see how these issues affect themselves and those they care for.

What did you major in, and what are your plans after graduation?
English, Sociology and Anthropology, concentration in Women’s Studies. I will be leaving for Phoe-
nix shortly after graduation to teach in underresourced schools through Teach for America.

What do you think makes a leader?

Passion and an activist spirit. Those who make change care very greatly about the endeavors they
undertake and I think they cause others, though certainly not everybody, to care about them and look for
change as well. They are not afraid to have their voices heard.

Who do you look up to, on campus or off.’

I look up to so many people, especially on this campus: the professors in the English department,
Professor Mayock in the Spanish department, the leaders (and ﬁiture leaders) of KEWL. Our campus
has many admirable people.

What changes do you hope for in future years at W&L?

I hope that we create a campus climate more conducive towards reducing and reporting sexual as-
sault. I hope we have a better system to deal with them, since right now the systems we have in place
seem woefully inadequate. I hope that more women run for and are elected to the EC and that alcohol
offenses, especially DUI’s, are taken more seriously and punished more justly than they currently seem
to be. Of course, these are big changes -- but they are not impossible.

 

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

3 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Bringing and sharing laughter across the campus

Morgan Harris ’s work with GAB, Wednesday Night Live and other organizations helps cheer W&L, community

The trademark curly ‘fro is gone, but Morgan
Harris still remains a household name around the
Washington and Lee Community.

The Ring-Tum Phi has decided to honor him
with a “Phi Award” for his work starting GAB
Comedy and Sig Ep, improving gender relations,
and his involvement with Wednesday Night Live.

A native of Maine and politics/sociology double
major, Harris began his unwavering involvement
with student life at the beginning of his freshmen
year.

With the promise of re-established Sigma Phi
Epsilon, Harris decided to make the fraternity a
“creative hub on campus.”

“My friends and I had this wonderful opportuni-
ty to bring something fresh to Greek life,” he said.

Fresh and creative it is. The fraternity had the
ﬁrst student band night and continues to have mul-
tiple members play in and form bands.

Harris also took the initiative to bring other

forms of entertainment to W&L.

He single-handedly began GAB Comedy, which
is responsible for bringing comedians, recently Bo
Burnham, to W&L.

“When I ﬁrst arrived at school, I was confused
as to why there were no comedy acts and only con-

“My friends and I had this
wonderful opportunity to bring
something fresh to Greek life. ”

Morgan Harrls, Phl Award wlnner

certs for entertainment,” Harris said.

He relentlessly petitioned for money, and by his
sophomore year, he was able to get three to ﬁve
comedians, all of which have now become big-time

comedic writers.

But Harris has also been involved in correcting
structural issues throughout campus, most notably
working to improve gender relations by starting
plans for the ﬁrst co—ed ﬂoor as an option for ﬁrst-
year students.

“We are one of the few schools that still have
segregated ﬂoors,” Harris said.

He developed the idea of a co-ed ﬂoor after rec-
ognizing that gender relations could not be com-
pletely ﬁxed by simply organizing events.

“We’re putting Band Aids on something instead
of going to the source,” he said.

The source, Harris thinks, is the living system.

Therefore, he met with President Ruscio, Dean
Watkins, Dean Leonard, among others in a series
of meetings in which he lobbied for a “pilot” co-ed
ﬂoor.

Next fall, he will get his wish.

But Harris is not without theatrical attributes.

He’s been involved with the Theater Depart-
ment, most recently Wednesday Night Live.

“I’ve wanted to do theater,” said Harris, “but up
until now, I haven’t had the time or opportunity. So,
I made a resolution to perform this year.”

As for next year?

“I am 90% sure that I will be working in the
Washington and Lee Communications Office for a
student voice website, with the plan of developing a
communication structure between the student body
and various student organizations’ events.”

It is just another way Harris is starting impor-
tant dialogues, ﬁxing problems, and bringing out
W&L’s creative side.

Building a sense of community from the dorms onward

 

F our—year Gilliam resident Wesley 0 ’Dell ensures that freshmen and upperclassmen have a good stay

You’re the head of the Resident Adviser (RA) program. What
were your responsibilities?

I’m responsible for overseeing staff operations for all 50 RAs
in the ﬁrst-year and upperclassmen residence halls. In that capacity,
I’m a resource for RAs who need assistance or advice in carrying
out their roles as counselors and university ofﬁcers. One of my most
important duties is planning and executing an intense, two-week
training program in mid—August that combines classroom instruc-
tion, ﬁeld exercises, and leadership and team building training for
the Residence Life Staff.

Why did you choose to be an RA?

I chose to be an RA, then called a DC, because it seemed the most
direct path I could take to help build and protect the sense of com-
munity that makes W&L a wonderful place to go to school. One of
the things I got involved with very early on campus was the Student
Recruitment Committee; it occurred to me one day when I was giv-
ing a tour that I was making a lot of promises -- promises about a
welcoming, open campus that was united by a common respect and
decency that cut across secondary distinctions like Greek aﬁiliation
or class year. I ﬁgured the best way to keep those promises was to
work with freshmen to ensure that respect was built early on the hall
level.

What’s the best thing about being an RA?

The best thing about the job is the people -- you get to be of
some beneﬁt to a new batch of fresh faces every year while working
with a collection of some of the best and brightest our campus has
to offer. The worst thing is seeing, year after year, new members of
our community make the same mistakes that negatively impact their
time here.

Do you have any funny stories or experiences you’ll always re-
member from your time spent as an RA?

Funny stories? Well, there was the resident who got it into his
head that his end-of-year goal was to take a picture with me while
he was butt naked. I spent quite a few weeks dodging a large, nude

freshman on my hall. All in good fun. Mostly. Of course, there are
a bunch more that I can’t talk about. Hot pursuit of Health Center
escapees is always a hoot.

Move-in days are always interesting. Once I was carrying a
young woman’s luggage up to her room and it slipped, spilling
her bras out onto the floor and holding up the line of movers. I
bent down to pick them up but I found that I couldn’t force them
back into their drawer. So I started pushing down on them to cre-
ate space. It was at this point that I heard a voice from behind me
in the line: “Having trouble?” It was Dean Watkins. Watching me
squeeze some girl’s bras. If I remember correctly, I stood and walked
back downstairs in shame. The very next thing I randomly pull out
of the car’s trunk in the quad: tampons. A giant box of tampons.

Were you involved in any other leadership positions on campus?
What do you think makes a leader?

I served as Chairman of the Student Recruitment Committee
for about a year and a half. As for what makes a leader, I’d say
empathy and loyalty. You have to be able to put yourself in the

“I ’ve learned that the greatest education

‘ you ’ll get in life is from the people around

you and that the greatest privilege in life is

1

that of being around them. ’

 
shoes of those you’re leading. You also have to learn to be loyal
to them, to those that lead you, and to earn their loyalty in return.

What do you think makes you a leader? Who do you look up to,
on campus or off?

My ﬁrst answer is the kind respect and patience of those who
work with me! Their trust is absolutely vital.

Changing student life through an
array of positive inﬂuences

Extremely involved in Traveller, residential life and theater, Rebecca
Koval commits to improving student life through leadership

You may know her as the girl who can
really scream.

But despite the YouTube links and Face-
book groups dedicated to her booming vocal
cords as displayed at Mock Convention last
year, the Washington and Lee student body
recognizes Rebecca Koval for her inﬂuen-
tial impact on the quality of student life.

Koval gets a Ring-tum Phi Award for her

knew it was the place for me when I visited
and saw how this university was so unique
and charming,” Koval said.

Indeed, her love for the W&L community
has been reﬂected through all of her lasting
impacts on campus.

Koval became an RA her junior year be-
cause she wanted to connect more with un-
derclassmen. She had the “perfect freshmen

“When I read about it, I was so skeptical of the Honor

system. However: I knew it was the place for me when I

visited and saw how this university was so unique and

' 1)
charming.

Rebecca Koval Phl Award wlnner
 

work serving ﬁrst-year students as a Resi-
dent Adviser (RA) and Rho Gamma, lead-
ing Traveller and being active in the W&L
Theater Department.

Now a graduating senior, Koval is an
English major from Buffalo.

She chose W&L because it was too
“freakish” to be real.

“It’s true. When I read about it, I was so
skeptical of the Honor System. However, I

year” and wanted to guide students through
that transition so that they could have a sim-
ilar experience.

Closely linked to her work as an RA,
Koval also became a peer counselor because
she wanted to become more committed to
student life. And by her senior year, she had
been promoted to head peer counselor.

The Rho Gamma position enticed Koval
because it gave her the opportunity to have

an even more open relationship with under-
classmen on her hall.

“Rush can be both terrifying and excit-
ing. When I was completely disafﬁliated, it
was much easier for girls to communicate
with me and not feel awkward,” she said.

She began working with Traveller at the
end of her freshman year, and she was pro-
moted to a leadership position this year.

“This program is such an incredible asset
to our school. It just helps shed light on our
campus’ uniqueness,” she said.

Koval has also either been in or worked
with a theater production every year. She’s
performed in numerous “One Acts” as well
as “Play it Again, Sam” and most recently,
Wednesday Night Live.

Clearly, her versatility and commitment
to student life has made her worthy of this
award.

Her plans for next year?

Koval will be volunteering with Ameri-
Corps for one year living as a surrogate par-
ent and residential life advisor for l2 other
girls in a safe house.

Something tells us she’s pretty qualiﬁed
for that position.

Who do you look up to, on campus or off.’

I look up to President Ruscio here on campus; he was the Head
DC while he was here, and he’s always spoken to me about the job
with the kind of understanding that you can only get from having
done it yourself.

What are your plans after graduating W&L?
I’ll be spending next year at the University of Cambridge com-
pleting a master’s degree in Modern European History.

What have you learned from attending W&L?

l’ve learned that the greatest education you’ll get in life is from
the people around you and that the greatest privilege in life is that of
being around them.

Any RA habits you’ll carry along with you after graduating?
An unshakable hatred of move-in days.

What dorm that you lived in was your favorite?
I have only lived in Gilliam, so...Yes, that’s all four years. Never
been done before. I take a sick pride in that.

             

Celebmﬁng “:1 pin are like no o.tFser""

  

 

tulates the  lass of      

 

  longrv

    

 ccalaureitte iewice
Wednesday, June 3

10:00 am.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

 

    duation
Thursday, June 4

10:00 am.
Colonnade in front of the Lee Chapel

 

celebrate this aoeoniplisllltlent
with
 special remembrance giftl

    
   

                         
Satur ay,1vlay 30, 10:00 am. — 5:00 pm.
Sunday, 1vlay31, 10:00 a.n1—5:00p.n1
Monday, June 1 through Thursday, June 4, 8:00 ELl'I'1. — 71:00 pm.

 

Thank you for helping the University
hwy using your UNIVERSITY STORE!

All revenues go directly lLOWEI.t'[1S University scholarships, salaries and
e  W'asl1in,crton and Lee on eratina budget

 

  

‘ Senior farewell: behave yourself

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

opinions

In his ﬁnal Phi article, Jacob Geiger talks W&L—Lex Po relations and frat fears

By Jacob Geiger
COLU M NIST

I’ve spilled a lot of ink
in these pages over the last
four years, and I’m proud the
work and coverage the Phi has
provided to the school in the last
four years.

I’ve hit every section at least
once: front page news, sports, a
bushel of editorials and even a
theater review. Yeah, I still don’t
know if that theater review was
any good or not.

We’ve covered changes in
fraternity life, the Pi Phi ﬁre,
dam safety at J ordan’s Point, the
ﬁrst open hearing in 12 years,
the Bracket controversy and
now the effort by W&L students
to ﬁnally push the Executive
Committee down the path to
more open government.

These are all key issues, and
they’ve all been talked to death
at one time or another.

As I head towards graduation
and—gulp—the real world, there
are two pressing issues that our
student body needs to address
next year.

The ﬁrst issue is student
relationships with the local
police. Frankly, there is no
relationship right now except
one of mutual disdain and
dislike.

Both sides are to blame
here. Too many of the younger
ofﬁcers are jerks who are rude
and arrogant around students.
Ofﬁcer Condry, I’m looking at
you speciﬁcally. And it seems
like the Lexington Police
Department has been on some
sort of no—tolerance kick,
breaking up partiers earlier
and clearing out houses more
aggressively.

The real shame of this
behavior is that it obscures the
wonderful work of ofﬁcers like
Lt. Bucky Smith, who has been
going out of his way to be a
friend to W&L students since
most of us were in elementary
school.

The students share half the
blame, of course. We’re too often
loud, rude and disrespectful. We
yell at the oﬂicers when they
break up parties and some bozos
even enjoy throwing beers at

their squad cars.

I’m not entirely sure how
the student—police relationship
went so sour in Lexington. I
just know that if anyone wants
to see things improve, it’s up
to ordinary students to start
building relationships with the

relationships will hurt us far
more than they hurt the police.
The other issue that students-
and note that I didn’t say
“students and administrators”-
must address is the rash of
fraternity suspensions we’ve
seen in the past two years: Kappa

Here is the potential problem. If fraternities

are afraid that any parties in their house

could land them in hot water, things will

move out to the country increasing the risk

of drunk driving.

police. Groups like the Campus
Community Coalition have
certainly made a big impact
around Windfall and the Pole
Houses, but in town a one-
group approach isn’t going to
work. If things don’t change,
relationships are only going
to get worse, not better. And
since the cops are the ones
with the handcuffs, worsening

Sig in summer 2007, SAE last
spring and now Phi Psi this
winter. During that same span
both KA and FIJI came right to
the brink of being thrown off
campus.

There is no misunderstanding
the school’s message. If you get
caught hazing, you’re probably
on your way out. If you can’t
keep a close reign on parties,

you’re going to get busted.

Here’s the potential problem.
If fraternities are afraid that any
parties in their houses could land
them in hot water, things will
move out to the country. That
means putting more strain on
Traveller and increasing the risk
of drunk driving. After working
so hard in the past decade to
dramatically cut down on drunk
driving, we cannot afford to see
those trends reverse themselves.

And it would also be a
shame to see some of the nicest
fraternity houses in the nation
wasted or kept empty. W&L
didn’t spend millions of dollars
on renovations to have two or
three houses empty all the time.

This year the university
scrapped the much-despised
Student Affairs Committee and
allowed appeals of IF C decisions
to be heard by the University
Board of Appeals, which is
made up of an equal number of
students and faculty.

That was a small step in the
right direction, but it was still
disheartening to see the school
appeal the reasonable IFC

decision in the Phi Psi ease up
to the UBA, which voted for
suspension. I wasn’t in either
the IFC or UBA hearings, but
it is clear that the school does
not ﬁllly trust the IFC to police
the fraternity system, hence the
appeal.

These are important issues,
ones worth debating about and
caring about. And the Student
Body meeting this spring showed
that you can actually get results
if you get students to overcome
their apathy. But whether or
not these problems solved in
the next year, it’s important to
realize that W&L isn’t perfect.
Never has been, never will be.

Despite the inevitable ﬂaws
and imperfections, however, this
is still a wonderful school and
one I’m proud to be graduating
from. I ’m glad that I’ve had the
chance to write about the key
issues facing this school, both
as a reporter and as a columnist.
Mostly, though, I’m glad you’ve
taken the time to read my work.
Thanks for reading.

Senior farewell: challenge yourself

In her ﬁnal Phi article, Grace Andrews shares what she wishes she knew earlier

By Grace Andrews
COLUM NIST

When I was asked to write
an article for the senior farewell
of the Phi, I wanted to write
something articulate, deep, and
moving. I wanted to enlighten
readers while bidding them
adieu for the ﬁnal time in the
appropriate amount of hilarity.

That was an unsuccessful
mission. I decided to abandon
that completely and just offer
some advice that I wish I would
have gotten along the way.

So, for starters, respect the
speaking tradition. Just say hi;
it really is not that diﬂicult.
When you do say hello, it makes
someone’s day. It makes mine,
and then I’m a happier person.

Second, do not take seats that
are not yours. When you are in
a class and you know that little
Gracie Lou Freebush sits in the
second desk left of the professor
every Tuesday and Thursday, DO
NOT take her seat. That is rude
and should violate some sort of

unspoken classroom regulation.
1 don’t know how many times
this has happened either to me,
or to someone in a class of mine,
and the result is always the
same—~unhappiness!

Next, clean up after yourself.
No matter where you are, if you
make a mess, clean it up. Do
not leave it around for others to
clean because, once again, that is
rude. This extends for the dining
hall and into real life as well. If
I see another plate or cup in the
Marketplace for the workers
to clean up, I may have to start
ﬁnding those responsible myself.
Leaving your trash behind is not
sexy, nor is it the latest new fad.
CLEAN UP!

Following cleaning up for
yourself, do not break in line. It is
one of my biggest pet peeves and
makes me extraordinarily upset.
When I see people breaking, it
makes me want to turn big and
green like the Hulk and throwing
things around.

Also, be sure to volunteer.

Helping others helps you feel
good about yourself. Sometimes,
this is extremely beneﬁcial,
especially after midterm or ﬁnal
grade time. Instead of deﬁning
ourselves by our GPA, maybe
we should deﬁne ourselves by

in a book and paint something
extraordinary for myself. Some
may say you don’t have time; I
say make the time.

‘ Next, uphold the honor
tradition and become young
activists. Honor and civility are

Instead of deﬁning ourselves by our GPA,

maybe we should deﬁne ourselves by the

service work that we do and the people that

we help.

the service work that we do and
people that we help.

Get a hobby. My four years
here have consisted of minimal
leisure reading and painting,
which are my hobbies. My
life IS NOT better for it. I
should have made the time to
let my imagination run wild

vital in daily life, but kindness
and humility also go just as
far. As we attempt to remain
honorable, may we shake off the
bonds of apathy and really begin
to care about our fellow students
and humans. If you care about a
topic, let people know (in a polite
way) and discuss it accordingly;

that is the only way to learn

Speaking of caring, read the
news every day. The world is a
big place, and small important
things happen to people halfway
across the world daily. You
should know about it. Also,
learn something new every
day. Whether it’s through
Wikipedia or some random
local encyclopedia, look up
everything that comes to mind,
and remember as much of it as
you can.

My last piece of advice is to
enjoy life at W&L. Whether you
are miserable or happy, try new

activities and make new friends.

I played volleyball in high school
and was extremely involved in
my high school theater. When
I got to W&L, I decided that I
would take a different path to
graduation. I joined the track
team and started doing volunteer
work. I decided to tweak high
school Grace and make her new
and improved for college. I
maintained my personality while

doing something I’d never had
the opportunity to do before.
This is exactly what I would
recommend for those reading
this article. Every day that you
are alive is precious, so treat it
so. Live outside of your comfort
zone and don’t be afraid to do
something that you may be bad
at. The worst that could happen
is that you’re no good at it—and
who cares about that, as long
as you try? Track and Field
has been stressful, difﬁcult and
downright challenging for me.
BUT, it’s been such a reward.
The things I learn about myself
are invaluable, and now, I can
call myself a “thrower.”

Put a pep in your step and
challenge the opinions you
don’t believe in (respectfully,
of course), make friends with
students you do not know, and
don’t be afraid to fail.

Failure only happens when
you stop trying to succeed!

Keep your friends close, your enemies closer

Obama shows ruthlessness,

By Abel Delgado
corummsr

If there are people out there
who still do not recognize
President Obama’s political
genius, then they obviously
have not been paying attention.
Regardless of who you voted for,
you should give the man his fair
share of credit—not for turning
the country around, but for doing
his best to dismantle any and all
opposition.

When he saw a leadership
vacuum in his opposing party,
he made sure it was ﬁlled by
someone who would keep
independent voters away. Thus,
he crowned Rush Limbaugh
the Republican leader. When
he saw an increasing divide
between center-right pragmatists
and conservative idealists, he
recruited moderate Republicans

to his cause. He also made sure
his own party offered viable
moderate alternatives such as
Kristen Gillibrand. When he
is confronted with a polarizing
issue like abortion, he tries to
“tone down the rhetoric” in a
way that is condescending to
both sides and still makes him
look like a peacekeeper. And,
ﬁnally, when he realized there
was a young, likable centrist who
could actually have a chance of
putting up a ﬁght in 2012, he
exiled him to China.

Okay, so appointing Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman, Jr.,
as U.S. Ambassador to China
is not exactly the same thing
as exiling him~but for political
purposes it might as well be. As
Ambassador, Hunstman will do
an exceptional job of solving
crucial issues involving trade, to
the environment, and concerns

over North Korea and Taiwan...
while receiving absolutely no
limelight or credit.

The fact Huntsman accepted
the job speaks to his character.

aisle can agree that Hunstman is
the most qualiﬁed person for the
job.Alongwithbeingasuccessful
two-terrn governor, Hunstman
has served as Deputy Commerce

We would be naive to think President Obama
picked [Republican Utah Gov. Jon Hunts-

man] just because of his qualiﬁcations.

Since when has President Obama cared much

about experience?

He is a faithful American public
servant before he is a faithful
Republican. In this situation
where those two roles contradict,
he chooses the former.

Those on both sides of the

Secretary, U.S. Ambassador to
Singapore and Deputy US. Trade
Representative. He speaks ﬂuent
Mandarin Chinese and served as
a missionary in Taiwan.
Hunstman’s sense of duty

would not allow him to turn down
the job. “When the president of
the United States asks you step
up and serve in a capacity like
this,” he said, “that to me is the
end of the conversation and the
beginning of the obligation to
rise to the challenge.”

But we would be naive to think
President Obama picked him just
because of his qualiﬁcations.
Since when have President
Obama and his entourage cared
much about experience?

The Obama team recognized
that the Utah governor was
quickly becoming the popular
leader of the moderate wing
of the Republican Party. The
Obama team does not want there
to be a moderate wing of the
Republican Party. This is why
they worked to convince Senator
Specter to switch sides. This is
why they planned a photo op

savvy in recruiting moderate Republicans to help him

with Florida Governor Charlie
Crist to infuriate conservative
Floridians. This is why they
did not want the hugely popular
and chieﬂy pragmatic Governor
Huntsman to present a viable
Republican alternative to
Obama’s policies.

The Obama teams knows
it will have a much easier time
defeating the far-right than it will
defeating the center—right, and an
even easier time defeating both
by driving a wedge between the
two.

If only our president was
as good at uniting our country
in order to actually solve our
problems and restore our nation’s
economy as he is dividing and
dismantling the Republican
Party. Then one party rule would
not seem as frightening as it
does now.

 

    

- 5

 

 

 

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

opinions

 

............................................................ .. WAsHLqG*j0N AND LEE Umvgpsuy 

THE RING -T UM 

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

ALLISON CHOPIN
DIANDRA SPICAK
CODY BEAUCHAMP
WILL DORRANCE
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
KATHERINE ROBERTS
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS GRACE ANDREWS
PATRICK CONLEY
KEVIN CORN

ABEL DELGADO
JACOB GEIGER
NEVILLE FOGARTY
KATIE HATFIELD
FINDLEY MERRITT
JESSICA STRAIT
LEVI THROCKMORTON
ALDEN WICKER

DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

BUSINESS MANAGER STROCK MOORE
DISTRIBUTION MNGR. ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS

THE RING-TUM PHI Is PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI Is A MEMBER or THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR coNcERNs ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDREssED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIAIaoARD@wLu.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
Is AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS oN THE wAsHINGToN &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI wELcoMEs
ALL LETTERS. WE REsERvE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
sUBMIssIoNs FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADvERTIsING Do NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION or THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER oBsERvEs CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Don’t bash Bo Burnham

Although some take offense at Burnham, he is still funny

By Levl Throckmorton
c o LU M N I sr

Last Monday night, one of the hottest
young comedians in the world today gave a
memorable performance at W&L.

Bo Burnham, whose upcoming Comedy
Central special will make him the youngest
comedian to have one, performed to a packed
Marketplace——he’s too big to put in Stack-
house.

The root of the problem, however, does not
lie in Bo’s irreverence, for Bo does not re-
strict his impudence to any one group.

His “racist” jokes hit “rich white people”
as well as black people; his “sexist” jokes are
directed towards both men and women with
equal bite and satire.

The problem arises when people refuse to
understand that comedy is just that—-com-
edy. Bo Burnham’s jokes are not meant to be

Bo Burnham is jokes are not meant to be taken as expressions

of his own belieﬁs, but rather as pure, unadulterated entertain-

ment: satire at its best. ...Bo is simply very good at ﬁnding

ridiculous situations in life and exaggerating the insanity.

For most of the audience, Bo could do
no wrong. Every joke was delivered with
aplomb, every wink and sideways glance
perfectly timed; in short, Bo Burnham was at
his peak.

For some crowd members, however, Bo’s
performance was memorable for the wrong
reasons.

Bo Burnham’s comedy is extremely ir-
reverent. From poking fun at Christianity in
general and Catholics speciﬁcally to making
light of the fact that his “whole family thinks
[he’s] gay,” Bo Burnham knows no taboo
subject. Any topic can be turned into a song
full of intricate puns and witty banter.

Some people have problems with that. The
level of irreverence cuts too close to home.

taken as expressions of his own beliefs, but
rather as pure, unadulterated entertainment:
satire at its best.

If I may use myself as an example, the
song “I’m Gay For Jesus” should prob-
ably cause me (someone who believes in the
Christian doctrine of Jesus) to explode with
rage. “How dare he suggest that he have
homosexual feelings for the Savior of the
world?”

When I realize, however, that the point
of B0 Burnham’s comedy is to exploit the
ridiculous in order to make ﬁm of it, I can
at least enjoy Bo’s lyrical cleverness if not
laugh along with it.

The question that the offended audience
member raises is then: “Why do we laugh

at the racism jokes? Why do we laugh at the
sexual assault jokes? After all, racism is not
ﬁmny, nor is sexual assault.”

This is the message that our school has
pounded into our brains since we arrived on
campus, and they’re completely right. The
point is, we know this. We don’t think racism
is funny; we don’t think sexual assault is fun-
ny. We laugh at the idea of someone actually
being that racist, the idea of someone actually
justifying sexual assault.

As previously explained, it is absurd to
suggest that Bo Burnham is either a racist or
a sexist.

(By the by, if we want to argue that we
shouldn’t hire racist comedians, then Jasper
Redd, whose routine was laced with racist
jokes, should never have been on this cam-
pus.)

B0 is simply very good at ﬁnding ridicu-
lous situations in life and exaggerating the
insanity.

In a sentence, my point is simply this:
when it comes to comedy, lighten up.

Stop taking every joke that you don’t like
as a personal attack, and don’t assign attri-
butes to a comedian who doesn’t possess
them.

Great comedy is meant to be entertaining,
not inciting.

Bo Burnham is a great comedian.

What’s so funny about rape, the Klan, homophobia and B0?

The GAB shouldn ’t have used E C-allocated funds to bring a comedian who mocks issues W&L struggles with yearly

 

By Stephanie Hardlman
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Everyone likes a good joke.
“Good” being the key word in
that statement.

After all, that’s why I went
out to B0 Burnham last Monday.
I didn’t know anything about
him—I just went on the sugges-
tion of a friend—and I dragged
my roommate along. She hap-
pens to be black.

I apologized to her about
three minutes into Bo’s act be-
cause of how embarrassed I was

that her race and people ’s history
were mocked.

The song about the “Klan
Cookout” was awkward to say
the least. Jokes about Holocaust
victims made me cringe. And
laughing about sexual assault
didn’t seem right either.

We all know there’s a line
when it comes to comedy, and
I think most of us know when it
has been crossed. I, and I’m sure
countless others besides the peo-
ple that actually had the nerve to
walk out, am pretty sure that line
was crossed.

I couldn’t help but look
around at the people laughing
at the joke about how the adage
“Do unto others as you would
have done unto you” was really
about rape. And I couldn’t help
but think that there were a lot
more people there to laugh about
rape than there were to question
the operations of the Student
Faculty Hearing Board at the
student body meeting just a few
weeks ago.

Sexual assault and rape are
two issues that our campus deals
with daily. I didn’t think it was

very funny to laugh about it, and
I’m sure the one in four women
who are harassed on our campus
didn’t think it was ﬁmny either.

There were some witty quips
that I did enjoy—-smart ones that
made me think and didn’t neces-
sarily make anyone uncomfort-
able. I think Bo’s lyrical prow-
ess is commendable.

But I didn’t understand why
high school sex humor and ver-
bally bashing Christians, Jews,
blacks and everyone in between
to a bloody pulp had to take cen-
ter stage.

Maybe it’s because he uses
shock value to make up for the
fact that he’s not really that fun-
ny?

So who made Bo’s visit pos-
sible? It was the General Activi-
ties Board—-an Executive Com-
mittee-funded club on campus.
So essentially school funds paid
to have someone mock the is-
sues that our campus struggles
with and causes pain to many of
your friends, sorority sisters and
classmates.

As incoming chair of the
Contact Committee, another club

(or another Phi columnist) isn’t
going to tell me how to spend
my group’s EC-allocated ﬁmds.
And that’s not what I’m trying to
trying to do to GAB.

However, if Contact brought
a speaker to campus that nega-
tively affected and perhaps exac-
erbated the pain and tribulations
of fellow students ——-and perhaps
of the University community as
a whole,- then I hope someone
would take me aside and set me
straight.

 

I agree wholeheartedly with
Chris Tutor that enacting policy
changes would only be a start to
ﬁxing the dishonorable conduct
of many W&L students.

It’s of course striking that
our statistics for alcohol abuse
and sexual assault are signiﬁ-
cantly higher than the national
average.

This leaves us with two op-
tions——either the students came
into W&L already exhibiting
such behavior, or it was learned
since being at W&L. I’d like to
assume that our students aren’t
naturally more inclined to em-
ploy this unhealthy and dishon-
orable deportment than students
at other schools of our caliber,
so that leaves us with the sec-
ond premise—that this behav-
ior is created. If our school’s
infrastructure is such that when
left to reign free, it produces
these kinds of problems, then
we need to make fundamental
changes to the institution as a
whole.

It is obvious that the two
most pressing infrastructural

problems facing W&L are lack
of adequate on-campus housing,
and overabundance of fraterni-
ties. It’s a potent combination
that signiﬁcantly detracts from
the overall college experience
of many students.

Much of our gender relations
issues come from the fact that
men and women are completely
separated after freshman year.
Without the organic daily in-
teraction provided by a residen-
tial community, men are much
more inclined to treat women
as objects. Also note that W&L
has roughly the same number
of fraternities as it did when
we were an all—male institution.
Now we have half the amount
of men due to co-education,
which has artiﬁcially doubled
the supply of fraternities rela-
tive to the number of males.

This, combined with the
changing student demograph-
ics, leads to a situation that
causes many students to join a
system they never would have
been part of otherwise. I’d es-
timate that only about half of

totheetitor The Greek life is suffocating us

Senior Morgan Harris suggests scaling back the number of fra/ts is needed

each class’s ﬁrst-year males
are 100 percent sure they want
to join a fraternity. The rest of
those who join do so “just be-
cause [they] have to.” It’s a
self-fulﬁlling cycle that ensures
an almost complete void of al-
ternative life on campus.

As a liberal arts university,
Washington and Lee says in
its very mission statement that
it seeks to develop “engaged
citizenship in a global and di-
verse society.” The potential for
diverse cultural and intellec-
tual cross-pollenization exists
within the student body, but our
ﬂowers are trapped in conﬁne-
ment due to the stratification
caused by an overabundant
Greek system, single-sex on-
campus housing, and isolating
off-campus housing.

Building up—to-date co-ed
dorms that students actually
wouldn’t mind living in (unlike
the ancient pieces of junk cur-
rently available) and requiring
students to live_ on campus for
three years would allow much
greater interaction between stu-

dents of varying cultural and in-
tellectual persuasions, and cre-
ate a refreshingly vibrant and
exciting campus community.
Isn’t that the goal of a liberal
arts university?

Let me be clear—I am not in
favor of weakening the Greek
system or restraining the party
scene. The changes I propose,
in fact, would only strengthen
the Greek system and make
partying easier. Having every-
thing in closer proximity would
ensure more time spent actually
partying and less time spent
waiting for and riding Traveller
or, worse, driving drunk. (But
don’t fret; staples like the Pole
Houses and Windfall would
still of course be available).

And by lowering the amount
of fraternities to under ten, only
those students who truly want
to be part of Greek life would
participate. Each fraternity
would have a signiﬁcantly larg-
er and more committed and ac-
tive membership, and the Greek
community as a whole would
be more cohesive. At the same

time, an equally active and com-
mitted non-Greek population
freed from the time constraints
of fraternal life would bring
fresh air to a previously suf-
focating campus. And the few
houses that used to be fratemi-
ties could be turned into co-ed
social houses. This would help
both Greek and non-Greek stu-
dents interact together in cam-
pus-centric and fraternity-cen-
tric events, enabling everyone
to enjoy the greater diversity
and strength of extracurricular
pursuits available to them.

The tough part is actually en-
acting these changes. There are
many potential ways of going
about it, but before it happens
the students must be aware and
supportive of the rationale-
which, as outlined above, is
simply to make the university
a better place for a wider vari-
ety of its bright and passionate
students.I don’t claim to have
any guaranteed tactics, and in-
deed there won’t be a pain-free
solution.

I understand why many in

the /W&L community are so
fervent about not letting W&L
change. Change is always a
scary proposition, as venturing
into the unknown means leav-
ing the familiar comfort of the
status quo.

But when we speak of tradi-
tion, we must bear in mind the
true ideals of George Washing-
ton and Robert E. Lee. Both of
these men were leaders of mon-
umental change, and ultimately
did what was in the best interest
of the people and institutions
they served. In the spirit of our
founders, it’s time to ﬁx the
widely acknowledged problems
plaguing our beloved school.

Sincerely,
Morgan G. Harris, ‘09

 

TUESDAY, MAY 26,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI - 9

 

sports

' Crowning of King James

Conley argues that Lebron James is the King of the NBA

By Patrlck Conley
c o L u M N zsr

This NBA postseason has given
us numerous storylines: how the
Houston Rockets managed to push
the Lakers to seven without two All-
Stars and without a player above
6’9”; how the Celtics and Bulls
turned in what may be the greatest
ﬁrst round series we have ever seen,
with Derrick Rose and Raj on Rondo
battling for the status of “next great
point guard”; even the unfortunate
feud between Kenyon Martin and
Mark Cuban, ﬁlled with enough
“blogged” apologies and racial slurs
for everyone.

The major story so far, however,
has been the play of LeBron James
and his Cleveland Cavaliers. Play-
ing with Magic’s vision (averaging
over 6 dimes a game through 10
games in the playoffs), Pippen’s
defensive intensity (guarding the
other team’s best player and reject-
ing Dwight Howard’s Game 1 dunk
in such a nasty fashion that Super-
man asked for his cape back), and
Jordan’s ability to will the outcome
of each game (34 ppg, as well as a
few backbreaking dunks and maybe
even a game-winning shot), James
makes it appear as if it is only a mat-
ter of time until we ﬁnally crown our
new King and his dynasty begins.

This is not to say that he has had
no challengers. While the Cava-
liers made the Detroit Pistons and
Atlanta Hawks look like a bunch
of lost AAU teams (sweeping each

series in four games while winning
each game by at least 10 points), the
Magic have been giving James a run
for his money. They took Game 1
of the series (at the Q, where Cleve-
land was previously 43-2 this sea-
son), and took everything the Cavs
threw at them; James may have had
the most complete game of his post-
season career, dropping 49 points (a
career best and on 60 percent shoot-
ing no less) on the league’s best
defense. The Magic drew James
away from the team concept that has
made Cleveland so successful, and
the Cavs paid the price when they
could barely get a shot off at the end
of regulation.

With one second left in Game 2,
the Cavs looked about//done. Hedu
Turkoglu had just hit what should
have been a game-winner, and
Cleveland could only hope to ad-
vance the ball and put up a prayer.
This, however, is where James
showed that Jordan-esque tendency
we’ve all been waiting for, his refus-
al to lose a game. James ran to the
top of the key and launched a high,
arcing shot that splashed into the net
long after the buzzer sounded, giv-
ing his team the victory.

“The Shot”? What Shot? The
only “Shot” Clevelanders are going
to remember from now on is LeB-
ron putting his team on his back and
bringing them right back into the
mix. Whether or not the Cavs lost
home court, they have sent the se-
ries back to Orlando with the Magic

shaking their heads. It’s the kind
of psychological warfare that we
expect from the best player in the
game.

Assuming that the James gang
wins 3 of the next 5 games against
Orlando, they’l1 face competition
from either the Nuggets or the Lak-
ers, two teams battling it out in their
own heavyweight series. Neither
team is going to roll over and die in
the Finals, either.

On the one hand, you have the
Lakers. You have Kobe trying to
prove himself to still be the best
player in the world, trying to prove
that he doesn’t need Shaq to win the
Larry O’Brien trophy (although Ga-
sol and Odom aren’t exactly chopped
liver). You have the Zen Master Phil
Jackson trying to get one for his oth-
er thumb, the elusive 10th ring that
even Red doesn’t have. And both
of these men, along with the rest of
the Lakers, are playing with a sense
of urgency that cannot be underesti-
mated. Kobe, now in his 30’s, has
weathered the storm of D-Wade,
LeBron, Carmelo, CP3 and all the
other young guns for a while, but he
doesn’t have much time left in his
prime, and these young players are
about to enter theirs. Phil’s mind is
the same as it ever was, but his hips
and back have become so bad that
he has to sit in special chairs on the
bench to keep pain from affecting
his judgment.

The Nuggets are a different story,
less glamorous but no less interest-

ing. It took the addition of Mr. Big
Shot Himself to get these Nuggets
out of the ﬁrst round, but so far it
has worked wonders; you have
Nene cleaning up the glass and not
missing shots, the Birdman swatting
shots into the ﬁfth row, and K-Mart
providing the swagger. And, of
course, you have Carmelo. Some-
one who has gotten into a ﬁght on
the court (at MSG no less), who
has told Baltimore youth to “stop
snitchin’.” This often overlooked
anti-hero of the class of 2003 has
been brilliant thus far in the play-
offs. Melo has scored at will during
the ﬁrst 10 games, garnering praise
for his tough defense and growing
up in front of basketball fans every-
where.

Either team would present a
tough and exciting matchup for the
Cavaliers. However, when it comes
down to it, you just cannot over-
look what James has done this sea-
son. Playing in fewer minutes per
game, he has upped all of his per-
40-minute averages while shooting
at a better percentage in all three cat-
egories; now in the playoffs, James
has turned his speakers to “eleven.”
He plays with the kind of two-way
intensity that makes teams want to
roll over and die. His help is better
than it has ever been. To top it all
off, James is hungry. When a 6’9”,
275 pound man is hungry, you don’t
get between him and his meal. The
rest of the league will ﬁgure that out
sure enough.

W&L plays
in NCAAS

Tabb, Caire fall to
Denison in quarterﬁnals

NCAA Division III Women’s Tennis
Individual Championships

Collins Hill Athletic Club
Lawrenceville, Ga.

Friday, May 22

Doubles:

Senior Katie Tabb and Junior Lauren Caire
(W&L) def. Junior Brittany Berckes and
Sophomore Natasha Brown (Amherst)

6-4, 6-2

Singles:

Senior Katie Tabb (W&L) def. Junior Brittany
Berckes (Amherst) -

6-0, 6-1

F irst-year Amanda Wu (Carnegie Mellon) def.
Senior Katie Tabb (W&L)
6-3, 0-6, 0-6

Ploy Suhijindawong (St. Scholastica) def.
First-Year Ellen Yeatman (W&L)
3-6, 2-6

Saturday, May 23

Doubles:

Sophomore Kristin Cobb and Junior Marta
Drane (Denison) Senior Katie Tabb and Junior
Lauren Caire (W&L)

2-6, 6-3, 4-6

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Q’ University Store Q’

Celebrating “ct place like no other”

U ndergraduute Students

DO YOU WANT
CASH FOR SUMMER?

Finished Exams? Before leaving campus,

bring your books to the UNIVERSITY STORE!

. . . Get cash (up to 50% of value of book)!
. . . Help your store have more used and cheaper books for future semesters!

6 Dzws in the Coimnons’ Atrium
Thursday F1*i(la};?, M:1y28 & 29, 9 ani. — 6 pm.
Saturday & Sunday, Nliljy’ 30 & l\»tIay 31, 1021.m. -5 pm.
Monday & Tuesday, June 1 & 2,] 9 am. — 6 pm.

Textbook Buyback!

 

  

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2009

10

  

- THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

‘ numbers
108

The number of career doubles wins for senior tennis player Katie
Tabb. She tied the school record on Saturday when she and junior
Lauren Caire beat an Amherst team to advance to the NCAA quarterfi-

nal round. Tabb and Caire lost to Denison Sunday.

0

The number of times before the Orlando Magic and Cleveland Cava-
liers match-up in the Eastern Conference finals that the first two

games of a NBA playoff series have both been decided by one point.

4th

Senior Stacy Doornbos's finish at the NCAA track and field champion-

ships in the women's heptathlon, naming her an All—American.

.195

Boston Red Sox designated hitter David Ortiz's batting average enter-
ing Monday. While Ortiz hit his ﬁrst home run Wednesday since Sep-
tember 2008, he has gone O-for-12 since then. Manager Terry Fran-

cona benched Ortiz May 15-17 against the Seattle Mariners.

sbox

 

“If I could handpick a replacement of a football
guy, I would cast a net and drag in Jon Gruden.
He is the two things you most want — smart and
funny -- and has the two things I don’t — good hair
and a tan.”
Former Monday Night Football commentator Tony Kornheiser on
ESPN’s decision to hire former Tampa Bay Buccaneers coach Jon
Gruden as his replacement. Kornheiser resigned after three years,
citing his fear of ﬂying in planes. Gruden was ﬂred by the Bucs after

going 9-7 and missing the playoffs In 2009. Courtesy of cbssports.
com.

“That was the biggest shot l’ve made in my ca-
reer.”

Cleveland Cavaliers forward Lebron James after he hit a game-winning
three-pointer at the buzzer Friday to beat the Orlando Magic 96-95
in game two of the teams’ NBA Eastern Conference finals. Courtesy
of espn.com.

“If he plays well, he’ll have more time.”

Los Angeles Lakers coach Phil Jackson on center Andrew Bynum’s
criticism of the team’s defensive schemes. Bynum was pulled at the
start of the second half of game two of the Western Conference finals
for a play where he lacked intensity. Courtesy of nba.com.

“I don ’t feel the need to go, actually. I don't feel
like it’s that big a deal to me.”

Pittsburgh Steeiers linebacker James Harrison on the team’s visit
Thursday to the White House for winning the Super Bowl. Harrison
also skipped the Steelers’ 2006 visit to Washington when they won
Super Bowl XL. Courtesy of cbssports.com.

“I'm done. I’m retiring. I miss being with my fam-
ily every day. I knew when the season ended, but I
wanted to leave and get home first, and not make
a big deal of it. A player is what I was. Now I'm a
husband and a father.”

New Jersey Devils center Bobby Hoilk on his plans to retire after an
18-year NHL career. Courtesy of nhl.com.

582 P1 IL’ 3l]],E

W&L’s year in review '

Dorrance counts down the year is top 10 W&L sporting events

By Will Dorrance
sporzrs EDITOR

With the conclusion of the
track and tennis seasons this
past weekend at the individual
NCAA championships, the
year in Washington and Lee
sports has come to a close.

And with that, my time as
sports editor of the Ring-Tum
Phi also ends. I have wit-
nessed and reported on some
unforgettable moments in an-
other exciting year of Gener-
als’ athletics. With so many
games to remember, I count
down the top 10 best W&L
sporting events of the school
year:

1 Sept. 27, 2008: The
° women’s soccer team
fell to then nationally
ﬁrst-ranked Messiah 4-3 on a
goal with just eight seconds
left in overtime. The Gener-
als led for much of the game.
Afterwards, head coach Neil
Cunningham said, “The game
was by far the best game I’ve
been involved with coaching
wise  you can’t get any one
as good as this game for the

spectacle of soccer.”
9' the ﬁrst-ever night
game at W&L, the
football team topped neigh-
boring Southern Virginia
35-28. Senior running back
Stuart Sitterson tallied two
touchdowns in the ﬁnal 5:57
to give the Generals the lead.
The Knights then put together
a nice drive in the games ﬁnal
minute, but junior defensive
back Donavon Sawyer ended
the game with an interception
in the endzone. Sawyer re-
called catching the ball, “For
some reason I was zoned out,
and it was somewhat of a sur-
real experience. I seriously
didn’t realize what happened
until I reached the sideline.”

Sept. 20, 2008: In

8 Feb. 15, 2009:
' Amassing 1,010

points, the women’s
swimming team crushed its
ODAC competition, winning
its 19th conference title. See-
ond-place Randolph-Macon
ﬁnished with 303 less points
than the Generals. Senior
Lindsey Strachan was named
the ODAC Swimmer of the
Year for the second straight
season. Senior Jule Miata
spoke of the team’s accom-
plishments. “Winning the
19th ODAC championship my
senior year was a great way to
ﬁnish, and only added to the
bittersweetness of a college
athletic career ending. The
girls all swam fantastic, and
we proved to everyone once
again, that one champion-
ship taken away 2 years ago,
will not leave us sour for too

long.”
7' women’s cross coun-
try team came in ﬁrst
place in the ODAC champi-
onship for the ﬁfth consecu-
tive year. The team outscored
Roanoke, the second place
team, by 25. Senior Jess
Shaw won the race and was
named ODAC Runner of the
Year. Referencing the team’s
national ambitions, senior
Elizabeth Webb commented
on the conference race, “We
made sure not to lose sight of
the fact that we needed to de-
fend our ODAC title ﬁrst. Ev-
eryone truly came through and

contributed in a big way.”
beating Bridgewa-

6.

ter earlier in the day,
the volleyball team defeated
Lynchburg 3-0 in the ODAC
championship for its eighth
straight title. The Generals
did not lose a game in the
three-match conference tour-
nament. Senior right-side hit-

Nov. 1, 2008: The

Nov. 8, ‘2008: After

ter Jess Ulrich said she was
conﬁdent throughout the tour-
nament. “There was no doubt
in my mind that we’d win the

championship again.”
women’s track and

5.

ﬁeld team won the
ODAC indoor championship
with 120 points, just four
points ahead of Roanoke. It
was the program’s ﬁrst-ever
indoor ODAC title. On the
day, the team garnered seven
conference champions and
three championship meet re-
cords. Senior Stacy Doombos
recounted the race’s ﬁnal mo-
ments. “We were in third go-
ing into the last three events.
We did well in the shot put,
rocked the 5,000 and brought
home the 4x400 relay to win.
I run the last leg of the 4x400
relay, and it was an incredible
race. Everyone was crowded
around the track screaming
and yelling.”

Feb. 27, 2009: The

4 April 20, 2009:
' Coming into the last
day down six strokes,

the golf team stormed back
to shoot its best round of the
ODAC tournament in rainy
conditions to beat Guilford
by ﬁve strokes. It was the
Generals’ second consecu-
tive conference crown. Junior
Brad Watts later commented
on the team’s strategy heading
into the ﬁnal round. “Being
down six, we really wanted to
get off to a good start and put
pressure on the rest of the ﬁeld
from the beginning. [Senior]
Andrew Green did a tremen-
dous job of this by posting a
great score (75) early that re-
ally set the tone for the rest of

the team.”

3 ° men’s basketball
team advanced to the

ODAC ﬁnals for the ﬁrst time

Feb. 28, 2009: The

since 1989 when the Generals
beat Bridgewater 77-67 in the
conference semiﬁnals. Senior
guard Chris McHugh compli-
mented his team’s response to
adversity all season long, in-
cluding the playoffs. “If I’ve
learned anything about our
team over the last four years,
it is that we will never quit.”

May 3, 2009: The men’s la-
2 crosse team beat Ro-
0 anoke 15-14 in over-
time of the ODAC
championship. After blowing
a three-goal lead with three
minutes to go, W&L scored
just 38 seconds into the extra
frame when senior midﬁelder
Harry St. John found the back
of the net. St. John later said,
“I’ve always dreamed of scor-
ing a goal like the one against
Roanoke. I’m so happy our
senior class can graduate with
an ODAC title. Hopefully, it

is just one of many in the next
several years.”

April 26, 2009: The baseball
team won its ﬁrst-ever ODAC

1 championship by
C

beating Virginia

Wesleyan 10-6. The
Generals came into the touma-
ment as the lowest seed. Ju-
nior pitcher Chuck Davidson
was named the tournament
Most Outstanding Player after
giving up no earned runs in 15
innings. Third baseman Jim
Plantholt recalled the moment
W&L won it all. “It was the
best feeling in the world after
that last out. The pile-up in
the middle of the ﬁeld was like
a dream — unlike anything
else I’ve ever experienced in
sports.”

Doornbos places at NCAAs

Doornbos ﬁnishes fourth in heptathlon, namea’All-American

By Kevin Corn
STAFF warren

While in Marietta, Ohio,
over the weekend, Washington
and Lee senior Stacy Doom-
bos managed an impressive
fourth place ﬁnish at the 2009
NCAA Division III track and
ﬁeld championships in the
women’s heptathlon.

With 4,764 points, Doom-
bos earned All-America hon-
ors, as well as a new school
record. Added to her ﬁnishes
at the 2008 outdoor champi-
onships in the same event and
the 2009 indoor champion-
ships in the pentathlon, Door-
nbos completed her career
with earning these accolades
for a third time.

“It was great to ﬁnish my
track career as an All-Ameri-
can,” commented Doombos.
“The NCAA meet is always
an exciting atmosphere to
compete in and so to have it
be my last meet was a great
experience.”

This great experience be-
gan with strong ﬁnishes dur-
ing the ﬁrst day of the hep-
tathlon, when the competitors
completed four events. In the
100 meter hurdles, Doombos
set another school record with

éiiﬁroup

I0/13/08 18393 "

a time of 14.82. Then in the
high jump, her leap cleared
1.55 meters. In the shot put,
Doombos tossed 10.38 meters
and then crossed the ﬁnish
line in the 200 meter dash in a
time of 26.22.

With so many events in-
cluded in the heptathlon,

order to do my best I need to
concentrate on each event one
at a time.”

Doombos maintained this
concentration and her mo-
mentum during the second day
with equally strong ﬁnishes in
the remaining three events. In
the long jump, she leapt 5.24

“The time I spent practicing and compet-

ing during my four years here at W&L

has been a huge blessing in my life.  It

is so sad to see it coming to an end, but]

have so many awesome memories ﬁom my

W&L track years. ”

Stacy Doombos, senior

combined with the fact that
it is stretched over two days,
Doombos was able to show
true athleticism not only with
her results but also with her
mental preparation.

“Staying focused and
motivated during the seven
events and two days is part of
the multi-event,” commented
Doombos. “I know that in

meters. Then in the javelin,
Doombos tossed 30.23 me-
ters. Lastly, in the 800 meter
run, Doombos ﬁnished the
race in a time of2:23.15.
Always a gracious athlete,
Doombos wanted to recognize
those who came out and sup-
ported her through the meet.
Apparently, her team made
sure to express their support

by any means possible over
the course of the meet.

“I would also love
to say thank you to all my
coaches and teammates,” re-
marked Doombos. “It was so
great to have teammates call-
ing me, e-mailing me, and
some even driving up to Ohio
to watch me compete. It was
motivating to have everyone
cheering me on.”

Looking back on her career,
Doombos expressed gratitude
and nostalgia for her experi-
ences on the track team.

“The time I spent practic-
ing and competing during my
four years here at W&L has
been a huge blessing in my
life,” commented Doombos.
“I have made life-long friends
and learned so much through
my experiences on the track
team. It is sad to see it coming
to an end, but I have so many
awesome memories from my
W&L track years.”

 

 

