  

  

 

 

  Drink UP!     
Smartwater proven to make
    Sratrow cheers.      I  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

Pi Phi not
the same
as...Pi Phi

Confusion over stickers and ‘

mixers ﬁnally cleared up

By Katrina Rogers
3 TA F F w R I T E R

Pi Phi and Pi Phi are two distinct Greek-letter
organizations, according to anonymous sources
within Panhellenic and the IFC.

This conﬁrms the recent rumors that the Pi
Phi to which men belong is not the same as that
to which women belong, which were fueled by
the tendency for Pi Phi men not to buy the pink

and blue, arrow-covered picture frames and I

post-it notes at the bookstore.

“I just felt like the sticker with the light blue
stripes and the curly lettering didn’t look right
on my laptop,” a Pi Phi man said in defense of
hisrejection of the really cute sticker he could
have bought. “It didn’t accurately reflect, to me,
what it means to be a member of Pi Phi.”

Similarly, Pi Phi women were conspicuously
absent from Pi Phi’s recent mixer with ADPi.
When questioned, they said no mention had

been made of the mixer in chapter meeting the

week before. 7

Some have suggested that, in the wake of the
fire at the Pi Kappa Phi house, the two organiza-
tions merge; others have refused to believe they
were ever anything but one and the same.

One prospective student who recently stayed
for an over-night confused matters by swearing
on his life he’d been “to the coolest Pi Beta Phi
house - Thunderlodge baby!”

However, the explanation of Pi Phi and Pi
Phi being separate organizations clears up sev-
eral other conundiums, such as the two Pi Phi
houses-and the mysterious middle letters.

I Pi Phi women identify themselves as mem-
becs of Pi Beta Phi, while Pi Phi men are in Pi
Kappa Phi.

These middle letters are rarely used and prob-
ably:don’t mean anything important, but the dis—.
parity was a telling clue that there is more than
one Pi Phi on campus.

“Yeah, we’re totally not the same,” said a Pi
Phi. “One is for girls and one is for guys.”

This news follows the recent revelation that
Sigma Chi and the Lodge are indeed one frat:
Sigma Chi Psi. At least, judging from who are
the last 20 guys on the Late Nite dance ﬂoor
they’re the same.

 

W&L to be
renamed in 2010

Ruscio docsn ’t expect much will change, actually.

By Mltch “The M|ss|le” McDonogh and
Ryan “wrlnger” Wllllams
STAFF WRITERS

In 1749, what would eventually become
Washington and Lee University was established
roughly 20 miles north of the little city of Lex-
ington in Rockbridge County, Va.

Its purpose was to teach the lost arts of hon-
or and integrity and to insure that the handful
of men who graduated were the best southern
gentlemen in the nation.

They succeeded.

But on September 9, 2010, Washington
and Lee University will be renamed “Top Gun
University,” after a unanimous decision by the
Board of Trustees, the deans of the College and
the Williams School and Paramount Pictures.

“We’re up there with the best of the best, we
might as well let ‘em know it,” said Aviator-clad
University President Ken “Cobra” Ruscio.

“Today, we call it Washington and Lee. To-
morrow, we call it Top Gun.”

University ofﬁcials say the proposed change,
which will take effect beginning the 2010-2011
academic year, will cost an estimated $15 mil-
lion. The cost will include construction of a
new ﬂight school, Cougar Hall, to support sev-
en new major programs, including Flight Stud-
ies and Insubordination.

“For those less academically inclined, the
Maverick major will provide ample preparation
for students who hope to hone their skills at us-
ing good looks and charm to get ahead in life,”
said Professor Sam “Merlin” Wells, before ex-
ecuting a sick double high ﬁve.

The athletics department will retire its “Gen-
erals” apparel as all university sports teams
adopt their new title — the Wingmen.

“A good Wingman is compelled to evalu-

ate what’s happened, so he can apply what he’s
learned,” said men’s lacrosse coach Tom “Ice
Man” Kazansky ’86.

“Up there, we gotta push it. That’s our job,”
he said.

Changes will occur in all aspects of campus
life. The university’s new Johnson Scholarship
Program will be renamed the Bradshaw Schol-
arship Program, in honor of Lt. Nick “Goose”
Bradshaw ’86, the best damn pilot this place has
ever seen.

adopt the military alphabet. Organizations such
as Sierra Alpha Echo and X—Ray Oscar will re-
main a hallmark of the TGU social landscape.
New Member Education programs will now in-
clude mandatory sessions with towel whips and
awkward shower moments.

Student response to the broad—sweeping
changes has been overwhelmingly positive,
mostly because this school is stuck in the ‘80s.

“Real slick, my man,” high—ﬁved Tripp
“Danger” Douglass IV ’ll. “Real slick.”

“The Maverick major will provide ample preparation for students

who hope to hone their skills at using good looks and charm to

get ahead in life. ”

Sam “Merlln” Wells, professor

 

In Bradshaw’s memory, Lee Chapel will be
rechristened Goose Chapel. The new Goose
Chapel attire will call for sunglasses and leather
jackets for men and string bikinis for women.

The Traveller Safe Ride Program will be
renamed Tomcat, the W&L Swing will be re-
placed with Kenny “Stinger” Loggins’ “Danger
Zone.” Aviator sunglasses will become a man-
datory part of the Williams School curriculum.
Oh, wait...done.

All intramural sports will be fused into a
yearlong beach volleyball round-robin touma—
ment, with winners getting the girl and losers
biting the dust. Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity greet-
ed the news with enthusiastically before book-
ing Snackbar Jones for the 80th time this term.

The Greek System, one of the purest and
proudest traditions at what is now W&L, will

All courses in the humanities, including art,
music, theater, English, religion, and philoso-
phy, have been ejected. This will afford profes-
sors the opportunity to incorporate new courses,
such as “The History of Top Gun” and “Motor-
cycle Fashion.”

Professor Mike “Viper” Metcalf sees noth-
ing but opportunities in the revised course of-
ferings. In preparation for the transition, Viper
will teach a course this fall entitled “Too Close
For Missiles, I’m Switching to Guns: A Com-
prehensive Survey of Instinct and Aerial Com-
bat Tactics.”

“You don’t have time to think up there,” he
said. “If you think, you’re dead.”

Also, the Williams School will also intro-
duce it’s “Risky Business” term abroad starting
in 2010.

 
 
  

 

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 18

. Student challenges Cadavers

Senior Briana Gapsis demands payment for catching a member of the society

By Jeremy Halllson
uuozncovenunrsnn

Briana Gapsis hopes unveiling more
Cadavers will help pay for medical
school.

Gapsis, a senior at Washington and
Lee, has publicly stated her intention to
“take on” the Cadavers, a secret society
at W&L, for a second chance to have her
medical school tuition paid for.

“I just think it sucks that I unveiled
a Cadaver once already, and so far, they
have yet to make good on their sup-
posed obligation to make me a member
and pay for my medical school tuition,”
Gapsis said in an exclusive interview
with the Ring-Tum Phi. “That’s why I
plan to take them on a second time.”

Gapsis claims she successfully
chased down and unveiled a member
of the Cadavers society two weeks ago
with the help of a friend, sophomore

Sam Gilleran, who put down the masked
man with a blunt blow to the sternum.
“It’s not like I play football, but
when I saw that guy coming at me like a
freight train I just followed my instincts
and stiff-armed him,” Gilleran said. “It

veiling a Cadaver, whom she did not
recognize but claims she could identify
in a line-up. Despite posting two cam-
pus notices on March 17 and 18 an-
nouncing her successful unmasking of a
Cadaver, Gapsis said she did not receive

“I will unmask one of their members each week until

I am either inducted or compensated... This is a small

campus, and I ’m a pretty fast runner: I caught them

once, and I can do it again. ’

I

Brlana Gapsls, senlor pre-med student
 

was pretty sweet until the other Cadav-
ers ganged up on me and started pum-
meling me.” Gilleran said he still has
the bruises to prove it.

Now Gapsis wants her due for un-

so much as a bird’s skull from the secret
society. That’s why she plans to send
them a message they will hear.

“If I do not hear from the Cadavers
soon, I will unmask one of their mem-

bers each week until I am either induct-
ed or compensated. Even secret societ-
ies should honor their commitments,”
Gapsis said.

Though Gapsis is confident she can
take down one Cadaver a week, she is
keeping her methods a secret to main-
tain the element of surprise. She did
indicate the ambush would happen at
night, when Cadavers tend to roam the
W&L campus drawing their distinctive
skull logo on sidewalks and cars.

“This is a small campus and I’m a
pretty fast runner. I caught them once,
and I can do it again,” Gapsis said.

In support of her crusade, Gapsis’
friends have created a Facebook group,
“To Catch a Cadaver,” which will pro-
vide updates of Gapsis’ raids on mem-
bers of the secret society.

Philosophy professor James Mahon,
dean of students Dawn Watkins and di-
rector of religious life Burr Datz are all

backing Gapsis’ cause.

“That girl has spunk—if anyone can
do it, Briana can,” Mahon said. “But
she’ll have a hard time of it, to be sure.
Those Cadavers are elusive, like lepre-
chauns, only they don’t make ridiculous
offers to lead you to pots of gold when
you’re trying to get home after a late
night out. Jerks.”

Watkins said the deans are collec-
tively behind Gapsis: “We think that
this kind of proactive attitude is exactly
what the W&L student body needs to
see. You go, gir .”

For his part, Datz has personal rea-
sons to support Gapsis. “Those punks
stole my Martin back in 1974,” he said.

President Ken Ruscio, Provost June
Aprille and the board of -trustees have
remained silent on the issue. Figures.

 
 

lW!\¥ﬁ3ll*?tlHM.!V
WASHINGTON & use umtytasjisv,
LEXINGTON, VA, 24459.
APR 0 1 mg

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

 

Male student could be a Vampire

Students spot a mysterious blood-thirsty, attractive man around campus, but maybe he is just weird

By AnnaBella Bach
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR

Rumors circulating last week report
sightings of a pale-skinned, angry male
student at Washington and Lee who, ac-
cording to several women on campus,
must certainly be a vampire.

“There aren’t any emo or goth kids
at W&L,” an unidentiﬁed sorority mem-
ber was overheard saying during dinner
this week. “The only other option is a
vampire.”

Other students provided what they
claim is concrete evidence that a vam-
pire is attending school here.

“I see him at parties, standing in the
comer and staring at girls,” said a stu-
dent who was reluctant to indentify her-
self and only gave her name as Jessica.

“He’s creepy, but he’s really at-
tractive! I just wish I wasn’t scared of
him.”

Jessica described this man’s appear-
ance as tall and thin, with a fair com-
plexion, dark piercing eyes and tousled
dark hair.

“Pale, skinny guys are hot,” she

added.

Sources could not provide a name
for this mysterious ﬁgure. “Does he
even go here?” asked another student.
“He only wears black. Like, who does
that?”

Others recalled having seen him, but

without approaching them. She said his
expression turns angry and frightened
whenever someone tries to talk to him.
“Once I saw him on the hill. He was
yelling at this girl for no reason,” she
said. “She must be afraid that he is go-
ing to kill her or turn her into a vam-

“He 3 creepy, but he is really attractive...I ’ve never

seen him eat real food, and he looks too young to be

in college...hasn ’t anyone read “Twilight?” Its all in

I

there. ’

Jesslca, anonymous student

they couldn’t give speciﬁc details when
asked.

“I think he might be in my fraterni-
ty, but I’m not sure,” said junior Blake
Harris.

Jessica claims this man must be a
vampire because she has witnessed
him looking longingly at other people

Trident moves
to Twitter

Lack of money, writers and any real interest in
reading news forces staﬁ’ to post one-sentence

By Allce charlottes
STA F F W R IT E R

pire.”

Other students are less sure that this
man is actually a creature of the under-
world.

First-year Elizabeth Carter said she
thinks he is probably just depressed.
“He’s not a vampire,” she said. “He’s
just really weird.”

By Wyatt Heaton
STAFF WRITER

But others hold that this person has
displayed nearly all of the deﬁning fea-
tures of a typical vampire.

Jessica reported that she and oth-
ers have witnessed him staring at her
friends nervously, lifting heavy objects,
driving too fast down Main Street and
even walking around in the woods be-
hind campus.

“I’ve never seen him eat real food,
and he looks too young to be in college,”
she said. “Clearly he is only pretending
to age. Hasn’t anyone read “Twilight?”
It’s all in there.”

Another anonymous female student
claims to have seen his eyes change
color from day to day. She suspects this
happens because he is thirsty for blood.

“He’s in one of my classes, and
sometimes he disappears for days at
a time,” said this same source. “No
one knows where he goes, but I know
he must be hunting. He probably kills
animals to drink their blood. I’ve never
heard of him killing a human, but I’m
still afraid of him.”

Harris said he doesn’t think this man

ever sleeps, and other sources conﬁrmed
that this too is a vampiric trait.

“I’ve heard he is a really good musi-
cian, and everyone knows that Edward
Cullen plays the piano,” said Jessica.

Sophomore Nicole Allen said she
has seen this man surrounding by a
group of similarly pale, good-looking
young people on campus and at parties
two or three times.

“They’re the only ones I’ve ever seen
talking to him,” she said. “They must be
his vampire family, like the Cullens in
‘Twilight!”’

While most students admitted they
are glad they have never had to talk this
student, Allen said she regrets he is shy.
“I wish he would talk to me,” she said.
“My friends make fun of me, but I think
he’s really cute.”

No one would comment who has
actually been in contact with this per-
son, and the admissions office refused
to state whether there is a policy against
admitting students who are vampires.

Two poverty    
majors face arrest ~

With charges of assault and kidnapping, two
unnamed students face up to 29 years in prison

  

A few weeks after the editors of the Trident
decided to move online because of overwhelm-
ing debt, the paper may be forced to abandon
the Web site and turn to Twitter to deliver the
news.

The staff was optimistic about moving to the
Web the ﬁrst time around, but it turns out that
there aren’t even enough money, resources or
staff members to maintain the Web site.

So instead of producing full-sized news
stories and photos, the editors will simply post
brief headlines and lead paragraphs to the Tri-
dent’s page at Twitter.com, where readers can
easily “follow” the updates and stay informed.

This may seem like a bizarre solution to
the newspaper’s troubles, but editor Alexandra
Scaggs said she thinks it’s the perfect idea.

“I don’t know why we didn’t think of it be-
fore,” she said. “We’ve just been wasting time
and the money We didn’t have putting out a
newspaper and then a Web site. It’s so much
easier to just post a sentence or two from my
Blackberry.”

Some traditional news consumers may be
outraged by the idea that they will not be able
to read full news stories, but a member of the
journalism department said that this old-fash-
ioned perspective is just not practical for the
fast-paced media world we currently live in.

“People want news on demand, and they
don’t have the attention span to open a news-
paper, click through a Web site or even read a
whole paragraph,” said this professor.

“The industry has to change to meet these

new needs, and the Trident’s got the right idea
by switching to Twitter.”

Junior Jake Richards, a writer for the Tri-
dent, is relieved that creative thinking, outlining
and actual writing will no longer be needed for
him to report on the news.

“No one reads it anyway, so why should we
bother?” he said.

Scaggs agrees that she and her staff are only
keeping up with the demand, or maybe even
staying ahead of the game.

“When the nation’s newspapers are folding
and moving to the Web, it’s obvious that we
need to be constantly adapting to a new me-
dium,” she said. “When’s the last time that any
college student actually read a newspaper any-
way? Print is obsolete.”

So are complete sentences, it seems. If the
we’re keeping up with the need for speed,
what’s next? Some suggest that information
projected directly into consumers’ minds is the
industry’s next goal.

As for the Trident staff, if Twitter doesn’t
work, the editors will resort to sending news
reports as text messages to approximately nine
readers each week. They ﬁgure no one will re-
ally notice.

The Ring-Tum Phi has learned the Lexington
Police Department will make two arrests of Wash-
ington and Lee students this week.

The two students facing arrest are Shepherd
Poverty Program majors, but are yet to be named.

The announcement of the names and arrests will
be covered exclusively by W&L’s Rockbridge Re-
port which aires on local channel 18. The inforrna—
tion is expected to be made public around 2 p.m
today.

The arrests will result from two assaults and kid-
nappings which took place on the night of March 2.
Two government insiders have conﬁrmed that the
kidnapping began outside Parrnly Hall and ended
in the Doremus Gyms saunas, where two students
were eventually found and then hospitalized for
three and four days.

Alyson Chalmers was the W&L Facilities Man-
agement employee who found the two beaten stu-
dents, Chip Gordon II and Kate Elizabeth Arnold,
with their hands and feet bound in the sauna.

“When I found them they were shriveled to rai-
sins and beaten like stray dogs. It was horriﬁc to
come upon. I’m still unable to get the image and
the smell out of my head.”

The two sources intimate with the case agreed
to speak to The Phi on record but refused to allow
attribution to their names. The sources work for the
Lexington Police Department. Other sources con-
ﬁrmed the story off-the-record.

The Phi would always prefer to give name at-
tribution but cannot in this case due to the sources
proximity to the case.

The incident stemmed from when Gordon II and
Arnold insulted the social prevalence and validity
of a school-wide Shepherd Poverty display dealing
with rural homelessness, according to Gait Cum-
mings, a friend of Gordon 11 and Arnold.

Rural homelessness is a rampant problem in
Rockbridge and the surrounding counties. 2008 US
Census Estimates indicate that there are as many
as eight thousand men, women and children living
amongst nature in this portion of the state.

Cummings conﬁrmed that his friends questioned
the display in the Commons, where they publicly
ridiculed the student leaders responsible for the
Shepherd Poverty display.

Cummings and other students present at the lam-
basting affirm that some of the Shepherd Poverty
Program members became livid with raged and
vowed for revenge.

It is at that point that the details become less
clear. At some point on the night of March 2, Gor-
don II and Arnold were subdued outside of Parrnly
Hall. They were found 7:37 a.m. the next morning
by Chalmers.

Gordon II is a member of Phi Kappa Theta, Wil-
liams Investment Society, Sigma Society and the
Men’s Basketball Team. Arnold, who has since
transferred, was a key player for the Women’s Ten-
nis Team, a C-School Major, a Peer Counselor and
a Fancy Dress Chair. She was, of course, a Kappa
Kappa Gamma.

Both refused to comment due to their role in any
possible trial.

Phi cancels A ril Fools’ issue

Editors cite having real news for the ﬁrst time, ike, ever, with apathy as reason for cancellation

By chrls Bukkakuson
DOES ANYONE EVEN READ THESE?

In an editorial decision sure to draw
sharp criticism from Washington and
Lee’s eagerly waiting student body,
Ring-tum Phi Managing Editor Allison
Chopin announced today that the Phi
will not be creating its annual “April
Fools’ Issue.”

The issue, usually considered to be
the most anticipated social event of
W&L’s school year, was scrapped last
minute due to staff apathy say sources.

In an unprecedented moment, the Phi
also conﬁrmed they had actual news to
report. Chopin conﬁrmed that the two
factors were the basis for her decision to
cut the issue.

The Phi’s “April Fools’” issue, which
ALWAYS falls on April 1st, has not
missed a yearly appearance since, like,
2003 probably. Phi Business Manager
Strock Moore was unavailable to help
us sort through the back issues to ﬁnd
out, and all the other editors were “too
clueless” about “how to sort through

this stuff,” report insider sources.

When reached for comment, Opin-
ions Editor Cody Beauchamp expressed
outrage that the editors were being de-
nied their one opportunity to foist bad-
pun-riddled headlines and only mod-
erately bemusing jokes about W&L’s
frattiness upon the student body.

“Dammit. I guess I’ll go back to
assigning stories for next week,” said
Beauchamp before picking up a dart
and throwing it at a board with sections
labeled “Attack Frats,” “Praise Frats,”
“Administration,” and “Diss D-hall /
Co-Op.”

News Editor John Henderson ex-
pressed disappointment at the news,
but also noted that “without those fake
pages, I might actually get to spend a
little of Sunday outside of that office.
Wow...I...I wonder what that’s like...
free time. . .wow. . .Henderson out!”

Arts & Life Editor Celeste Cruz-
Carandang did not respond to repeated
phone calls seeking comment, prob-
ably because she was too busy taking
as many pictures of random C-School

photo galleries as possible in the hopes
of actually getting people to read her
section.

Sports Editor Will Dorrance was un-
available for comment, as he was sin-
gle-handedly covering a women’s ﬁeld
hockey game, both lacrosse games, the
Phi Kap—FIJI IM basketball game, foot-
ball spring training, a competitive ping
pong match, two baseball tournaments,
some kind of swimming thing, a 1,023-
cup game at Fallout and SAE’s weekly
Sunday trip to golf.

Design Editor Lara Jordan was also
unavailable for comment. Sources con-
ﬁrm she simply walked out of the Phi’s
oﬂices after the twentieth time an editor
asked her to change a page’s design.

She was last spotted heading towards
Goshen like a normal person.

The Phi has no Copy Editors to con-
tact (anyone want a resume stuffer?).

The cancellation came as a huge dis-
appointment to administrators, who are
conﬁrmed to wait for each year’s issue
with great anticipation.

“Oh, I love it,” said President Ruscio

in an exclusive interview. “I just love
it when undergrads make up ridiculous
quotes I’m supposed to have said, all
in the name of satire,” Ruscio said be-
fore screaming “f"‘** tha police! Eyze
tha mayne dawg, doncha be forgettin it
thug!” and hanging up the phone.

Provost June Aprille said she will
miss the jokes about the University of
Richmond taking over W&L. “I’ve
been hiring no one but old U of R peo-
ple all year,” Aprille said. “C’mon Phi!
I was looking forward to see another
round of those jokes.”

One journalism professor who
wished to remain annonyrnous stated
that the cancellation came as a “huge
blow to fans of dry humor every-
where.”

Rumors are also circulating that the
cancellation has something to do with
next year’s freshmen class. One rumor
held that they are so damn cool they’ve
actually already bought the Phi so that
they have the media on their side when
they arrive on campus in the fall. They
are the best class ever. Like, of all time.

They make the rest of us look like the
four week spring terrn--not as ﬁm,
pointless, though still pretty hot.

Director of Greek Life Clay Coleman
has reportedly been considering resig-
nation following the Phi’s announce-
ment. “I simply don’t know how I can
keep doing my job without the once-a-
year gag article saying the frats have
all been kicked off,” Coleman said in a
statement to the Phi.

When asked whether next year
would see the return of the April Fool’s
edition, Chopin expressed doubt.

“The reality is that issues like that are
usually just excuses for over-worked,
under-funny people to make a bunch of
in-jokes because they’re secretly jeal-
ous of the Trident’s complete disregard
for any kind of quality,” said Chopin.

“And those kind of self-referential
in-joke ﬁlled, unfunny articles will nev-
er run in the Phi,” she added. *Smirk*

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

 

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 18

Blazing
the career

Jobs may be scarce
but W&L students have
a competitive advantage,
Career Services says.

By Holly Suthers
STAFF WRITER

The job market is more competitive

than ever, but W,&L, students are _wel_l_ ‘.

positioned to get offers, Career Services
director Beverly Lorig said.

Because of this year’s economic cri-
sis, fewer job positions are open to grad-
uating seniors. From areas of ﬁnance to
social work, landing a job is competitive.
Not only are college graduates compet-
ing with each other, but also with more
experienced applicants.

The National Association for Col-
leges and Employers has reported that
companies are hiring 22% fewer gradu-
ates this year than in 2008. They found
that the largest drop off was in ﬁnance
with a 71% decrease in job openings.

Students majoring in ﬁnance and
journalism may have a particularly
hard time ﬁnding a job. Both markets
have been signiﬁcantly affected by the
economy, making large cuts to both job
forces.

Laura Sanders is a senior journalism
major hoping to work in television news
as a reporter or a producer. At this point,

Sanders said she is willing to take the
ﬁrst offer she gets. She has sent resumes
to 10-15 different stations and plans on
sending out more.

"“My philosophy is, beggars can’t be
choosers. In this economy I’ll probably

Washington and Lee’s strong alum-
ni network is aiding students in leads,
placements and recommendations.
Some students have said that the sup-
port from alums and professors is part of
what makes W&L unique.

“Do not lose sight of your senior year. Continue to

make the most of it. Make good connections with fac-

ulty, focus on close relationships and have a good time.

You are going to be in the job force for a long time and

will always need this support. ”

Beverly Lorlg, Dlrector of Career Servlces
 

be more inclined to take whatever is of-
fered to me first,” said Sanders.

While times are touch, getting a job is
not impossible. According to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, the areas of health
care, biosciences and technology will
create the most new jobs this year. The
government is also creating thousands
of jobs targeted towards students.

“The professors and alums have been
really great! They all want me to sue-
ceed. It has been really nice to utilize
some of the connections they have in the
business world, too,” Sanders said.

Beverly Lorig, W&L’s Director of
Career Services, said seniors ought to
know that jobs are available, and that
career services has the resources to help.

According to Lorig, alums this year are
volunteering to help and support students
more than ever. Even the alums that are
working in volatile areas continue to be
supportiveand encouraging.

Walter Robertson, class of 1976 and
President and CEO of Scott & Stringfel-
low, spoke to a group of students several
weeks ago in Richmond. He encouraged
students to be persistent and productive
when applying for a job.

“Every hire that a company makes
this year is going to be signiﬁcant,” said
Robertson.

Robertson believes that while the
job market is very competitive, W&L
students are up too the task. He said
the caliber of W&L students continues
to get better each year and that they are
some of the most educated and prepared
students in America.

For some of the seniors that met with
him in Richmond, his words served as a
comfort to them. Some said the gloom of
the lack of jobs has prevented them from
recognizing that they are among the best
college graduates in the job market.

For students looking to prepare for
a job interview, Lorig believes demon-

 

LENORA NUNNLEY / Staff Photographer

Career Services director Beverly Lorig talks to first-year Amber Cooper in the career services office.

strating oral and written skills, the abil-
ity to work collaboratively, and the abil-
ity to quickly learn new information is
very important. ‘

“Motivation and determination is
going to be important in students who
assume new jobs. Employers will have
higher expectations from the start,” said
Lorig.

Lorig advised students to be realis-
tic when searching for a job and to use
the W&L outlets to help create multiple
plans. The job search could take longer
than expected, she said.

“Students are saying why should I
bother, well you are going to have to
ﬁnd a job one way or another. Prepare
now or suffer later,” she said.

Lorig also had this advice:

“Do not lose sight of your senior
year. Continue to make the most of it.
Make good connections with faculty, fo-
cus on close friendships and have a good
time. You are going to be in the job force
for a long time and will always need this
support.”

, Camille Allen ‘O7 battles cancer

Despite a serious diagnosis, Allen puts her best foot forward with help from friends

 

By Vlctorla Taylor
surr wnnzn

Camille Allen, Washington and Lee
class of 2007, has been diagnosed with
stage four squamous cell carcinoma of
the tongue, the second"-most common
form of skin cancer.

Since Allen’s diagnosis in February,
current and former W&L students have
shown their support by starting a scarf
and ponytail drive on campus to raise
awareness for Allen and other women
battling cancer.

Her personal story has been a driving
force behind the effort. Allen was ac-

tively involved in many aspects of cam-
pus life during her time at W&L. She
was president of Kappa Kappa Gamma,
head Peer Counselor, a tour guide, a
Volunteer Venture leader and a member
of the College Republicans.

After graduating from W&L in 2007 ,
Allen moved to Washington D.C. to
work for Cvent, an event planning soft-
ware company. In January, she went to
the company’s Indian office on a tem-
porary assignment to mentor and train
other sales personnel.

While overseas, what was once a
small ulcer on her tongue turned into a
larger, painful sore. A doctor in Gurga-
on, India performed a biopsy and found
that Allen had squamous cell carcinoma
of the tongue, a type of skin cancer. A
pathologist in her hometown of Jackson,
Miss. conﬁrmed the ﬁnding and Allen
was diagnosed with cancer.

Squamous cell carcinoma is a type
of skin cancer that forms in the ﬂat cells
that make up the skin’s surface. Accord-
ing to the National Cancer Institute, it is
the second most common form of skin
cancer.

Allen has already undergone one
round of chemotherapy at the M.D. An-
derson Cancer Center in Houston and is

scheduled for ﬁve more rounds before

i having surgery in May.

In response, Allen’s friend and soror-
ity sister Katherine Shell launched the
Crush Chemo website on March 22 to
help raise awareness for Allen as well as
the scarf and ponytail drive.

“Camille is an amazing,
amazing person. She has
always been such a good
friend to me and everyone

that I know. ”

Katherlne Shell,
Crush chemo creator

Shell recently sent out a campus
notice through dean of students Dawn
Watkins with information regarding
these efforts.

“I’m just really trying to get the word
out,” Shell said. “Just raising awareness
and expressing interest means a lot.”

Shell said Allen is the type of person
who is able to “reach across groups.”

“Camille is an amazing, amazing per-

son,” Shell said. “She has always been
such a good friend to me and everyone
that I know.”

Allen is helping to raise awareness
by making regular contributions to her
online journal on a Web site set up by
her sister, Courtney.

“I talked to her today and she’s sick
but she still has a good attitude about it,”
Shell said on Wednesday.

Cruch Chemo represents a joint effort
to help women undergoing chemo treat-
ments by organizing scarf and ponytail
donations. The hair donations are set up
through the Pantene Beautiful Lengths
campaign, which encourages women to
grow out, cut and donate their hair to be
used for wigs for cancer patients.

In addition to Shell, who cut off her
ponytail on Wednesday, eleven other
women have pledged to donate their
locks in honor of Allen. The group in-
cludes a mother and daughter from Lou-
isiana who were touched by her story
without knowing her personally.

Shell is also encouraging people to
donate large scarves and hats. She said
that those that do not go to Camille will
be donated to the American Cancer So-
ciety.

On campus, students have already

started getting involved with the ef-
forts to help and support Allen. Emily
Whipple, the president of Kappa Kappa
Gamma, said the sorority is planning on
doing a scarf drive during Spring Term.
The seniors in the sorority sent Allen a
care package with letters and magazines
to show their support. Kappa also reg-
istered a Relay for Life team in Allen’s
name.

“Since Relay for Life is alumni
weekend, we are hoping to get some ad-
ditional support from Camille’s friends
and pledge sisters and really make our
part in that event special for Camille and
her ﬁght against cancer,” Whipple said.

Allen’s sister Courtney has set up
a page on the CaringBridge website,
which is designed to help friends and
family stay connected to loved ones
during critical illness, treatment and
recovery. The site includes a blog that
Allen’s family updates almost daily and
guestbook in which visitors can leave
messages. The site already has almost
40,000 hits. '

For more information, visit the
Crush Chemo website at http://sites.
google.com/site/crushchemo/Home or
visit Allen’s CaringBridge page at http://
caringbridge.org/visit/camilleallen.

 

 

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

MARCH 30, 2009

By Monica Chlnn
FROM THE ROCKBRIDGE REPORT

Associate Supreme Court Jus-
tice Clarence Thomas told Rock-
bridge County residents Monday
to “eam the sacriﬁces” of their
forefathers and “preserve liberty
for future generations.”

Thomas, the nation’s second
black Supreme Court justice,
urged students and community
residents gathered at Washington
and Lee University’s Lee Chapel
to hold tight to their optimism
to achieve that goal. Thomas’
March 16 speech was sponsored
by the the Contact committe.

“This is a challenging time.
All times are challenging, really,
but somehow you’ve got to be
positive,” Thomas said. “Treat
people the way you want to be
treated. Be humble — we’ll all
be a bit better off.”

i ‘It was a rare speech for Thom-

as, who is known for refusing in-
terviews and shying away from
public appearances. Following a
messy and lengthy conﬁrmation
hearing process in 1991, which
included allegations by a former
co-worker of sexual harassment,
he faded from the limelight, be-
coming one of the high court’s
quietest members.

But what most listeners took
away from the conservative jus-
tice’s hour-long remarks was not
what he said, but how he said it.

“I was just so impressed with
what a sense of humor he has,”
said Lauren Santabar, a W&L se-
nior. “He’s so warm  not what
you think of when you hear ‘Su-
preme Court justice.’ ”

Thomas prompted laughter
in the chapel as he cracked jokes
several times throughout the
night.

On judges’ opinions: “They
just make them up.”

On amicus briefs: “They
should just call them the ‘Let’s
just get ourselves involved
briefs.’ ”

On his college days: “I don’t
have an iconic view of the ’60s.
I’mjust glad I survived.”

An “originalist” interpreter of
the Constitution, Thomas con-
siders the words of the document
with the framers’ intentions in
mind. While a staunch support-
er of this approach, he admitted
that he did not have answers to
tough issues such as abortion or
the death penalty.

That impressed Jacque Lin-
ton, a W&L senior.

“He is obviously smart
enough to know to say that he’s
not an expert," Linton said.

Contact, a W&L student-run
committee that invites speak-
ers to campus, brought Thomas
to Lexington. President Robin
Wright said committee members

set their sights on the justice be-
cause his position in the judicia-
ry system attracts international
renown.

He arrived at Lee Chapel to
ﬁnd a waiting audience that in-
cluded many local supporters.
County resident Loretta Simp-
son called Thomas one of her
heroes. She said she admires the
justice’s dedication to standing
up for what he believes in and
would be happy to hear “any-
thing out of his mout .”

Another local admirer who
braved the rainy weather was
Natural Bridge resident Wil-
liam Mack. Mack, who had read
Thomas’ best-selling book “My
Grar1dfather’s Son,” made his
way to the chapel on crutches, to
hear what the justice had to say.
Mack said he once traveled to
Washington, D.C. to see Thomas
on the bench.

“I sat listening to cases all

day,” Mack said. “He spoke, but
only one time.”

Thomas talked to his audi-
ence about the importance of
seeing the big picture, which he
said involves observing people
from afar. That quality was
something he said his grandfa-
ther, Myers Anderson, stressed
to him when Thomas was a boy
growing up in Georgia.

Thomas described how his
grandfather told him to see op-
portunity amid racial ridicule
while attending primary school
in Savannah and during his time
at both the College of the Holy
Cross in Worcester, Mass., and
Yale University Law School. He
said he attended both schools
during the era of Affirmative Ac-
tion begun by presidents John F.
Kennedy and Lyndon B. John-
son. » v -r - l
Today, Thomas said, he keeps
the big picture in mind by tak-

ASHINGTON AND 

‘H Ur1iver.s  

  

O

celebrnmzg "a place like no arisen’

DO YOU T
 FOR BREAK?

Store ‘H

[l11¢le1*g1*:atluate Students

F ire 17.-111.91! .Ex:rr:u.s'? Bgforrr Zatifi.‘-Piiilg’ crarrgms;

bring _)3'01H’ banks to the ITNIVERSITY STORE

Textbook

 

Buyback!

. . . Get caizli (up to :Fi)‘?~*t» of 'v:;rl1.1e ofibookﬁ
. . . Help yollr St.0l‘i3§l'l:1'V£E Inore 1_1serl and cl1eape1r*books for fliture selnestersi

8 Days in the Elrod Commons’ Atrium
Tl1111*sday' &. Frirlay', April 2 & 3, 9 a.m. — 6 p.m.
Satiirdajs, April -1, 10 a.m. —  p.m.
Monday - Friday, April 6 — 10, 9 a.m. — 6 pm.

Preserving the
Constitution

S. C. Justice Clarence Thomas
draws a crowd of students and
local residents to Lee Chapel

Photograph courtesy of university photographers
Patrick Hineiy and Kevin Remington.

Supreme court Justice Clarence Thomas, who Is thought to be the most
private of the justices, made himself acceslbie to students during a re-
ception in the Hotchkiss House following his speech In Lee Chapel.

ing annual trips to the Civil War
battleﬁeld in Gettysburg, Pa.,
with his court clerks. The visits
remind his team that while they
spend all day trying to discern the
intention of the men who wrote
the Constitution, they play just
a “bit part on the big stage in the
preservation of liberties.”

Thomas said he uses that
sense of humility whenever he
hears a case. While the public
often gloriﬁes the justices’ work,
they are not special, Thomas
said. They are not all-knowing
and they are not charged with
deriving new truths from the
Constitution, only interpreting
what is already there, he said.

“I’m not going to cook gour-
met meals with your Constitu-
tion,” he said.

 

 

 

.3

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 30,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

 

opinions

 

totheetilior

Loved “Love Your Body Week”

The President of Knowledge Empowering Women Leaders sense gender relations change is close

Love Your Body Week began as a
mere idea, thrown out at of one of our
meetings by Senior Jackie Burns two
winters ago.

As a group, KEWL has grown quick-
ly from its modest beginnings. Though
perhaps not one of the most well-known
organizations on campus, our e-mail list
currently includes 95 members. As a
group, we are ﬁercely-committed and
intelligent female students who per-
ceive injustices in our community and
strive to ﬁx them with action. We seek
to empower women to become leaders
in the community, both at W&L and in
greater society.

Our vision for Love Your Body
Week was two-fold: to empower and
create solidarity among women, and to
educate and galvanize our school into
addressing issues which are so crucial
to our being, but which are continually
swept under the rug and forgotten — is-
sues of body image and self-esteem, re-
productive health, and sexual assault.

Despite the continued efforts of
the administration and various student

groups, people too rarely stop to ponder
the negative consequences facilitated
by the social climate at this school.

Upon enrollment as a ﬁrst-year,
one is almost force-fed the unique cul-
ture that has been characterized by the
Princeton Review as “Major Frat and
Sorority Scene” and “Lots of Hard Li-
quor.”

True, some students may have cho-
sen W&L because of its “Work hard,
party harder” attitude; but a lot of us,
myself included, were initially over-
whelmed with the social scene, and
completely oblivious to the underlying
problems embedded in such a culture.

Students’ quiet acceptance of the
warped social scene, especially of the
degrading hook-up culture and exces-
sive under-age drinking, is extremely
disturbing. This apathetic mentality,
which is shared by so many, perpetuates
a culture which erodes the slightest sem-
blance of a normal male/female interac-
tion, objectiﬁes both males and females
to unacceptable levels, and brews feel-
ings of inadequacy. As we well know,

Leadership team for Campus Kitchens ;

these feelings of not being gorgeous or
skinny enough pave the road for much
graver problems, such as eating disor-
ders, anxiety, and depression.

These deeply-entrenched self-image
problems are difﬁcult to dislodge, but
not impossible. We hope that our post-
ers, games, cut-out women, and Post
Secret campaign shed light on the dark-
er recesses of college life in a meaning-
ful and productive way. We hope that,
as a result of our eﬂbrts and those of
SPEAK and Voices for Choice, we have
stimulated introspection among W&L
students and that discussion about these
core issues will continue even when
Love Your Body Week has ended... We
also hope that the positive, life-aﬂirm-
ing secrets that we shared as a campus
serve as a beacon of hope and begin the
healing process, both individually and
collectively.

This process, however, has not been
easy. Our efforts were met with shock
and resistance at the beginning of the
week. Some believed that content de-
picted on our Post Secrets were too

graphic and offensive to visitors of the
university, particularly prospective stu-
dents and children. There was discus-
sion as to whether our “Sex and the me-
dia” poster displayed in Cafe’ 77 could
be interpreted as pornographic, though
the pictures were cut out of Cosmopoli-
tan Magazine, which can be purchased
in the Bookstore.

Sexual assault posters were torn
down and thrown away by our peers.
The tour guides were informed not to
enter the library through the front en-
trance because we had displayed W&L’s
sexual assault statistics. The admis-
sions ofﬁce was afraid that these sober-
ing statistics would frighten prospective
students and their parents away, and not
give the university a proper chance to
explain. And although they eventually
realized the error of their ways, a larger
message was sent regarding what we
value on this campus: silence.

However, thanks to support and en-
couragement from faculty members,
most notably Dr. Robin Le Blanc, our
faculty adviser, and the administration,

we were able to keep our posters and
Post Secrets alive and up for all to see.
Public announcements were made to
elicit support for our campaign and its
objectives. Provost Aprille even offered
to help sell KEWL t-shirts! The contin-
ued applause of our campaign and en-
couragement to pursue and unveil these
uncomfortable realities only makes me
more optimistic that W&L may be “be-
hind the times” in some ways, but is
now on the brink of change.

As I stood over the staircase this
week and witnessed my own peers pon-
dering the proclamations of sexiness,
dark insecurities, and other never-been-
told secrets of real W&L students, I
could not help but think that there was
an energy in the air, which was very
different. A fundamental impasse had
been torn down, and I am so proud to
have been a part of it all.

Grace Wang
President of KEWL

What is the cost of rape, sexual Violence?

 

 

Profiles

Student Consulting and currently work-
1n ing with a group on a project for Hoof-
_ beats riding center; Outing Club trip
 leader for the past three years; Service

. Chair for Kappa Alpha Theta.
E11111)’ Deddens ODK member and volunteer as a men-

tor in the Lexington community.

What energizes you about
taking on the responsibilities of
campus‘ leadership? “I have enjoyed
taking positions which allow me to more
fully become a member of the community
at Washington and Lee and in Lexington.
To me, being a community member en-
tails participating in activities which bene-
fit the community at large.”

What has been one of the most
rewarding aspects of leadership
at W&L? “Leading Appalachian Adven-
ture trips has been one of my most re-
warding activities in college. Being part of
their experience as new freshmen enter W&L each year is always excit-
ing and helping to introduce them to the school has been very reward-
ing for me.”

What legacy of leadership do you hope you've left for
others at W&L? “I hope I have shown people that it is not enough
to simply enjoy the benefits of the community in which you live but
that you must also do things to continually improve that community.”
Any words of advice for those who follow? “I have found
that participating in a few carefully chosen activities is both more en-
joyable and more meaningful than trying to do everything, even if this
means giving some things up.”

Tuesdays with Leadership:
Leadership Without Easy/Answers

12:15 and 6:30 PM, Room 214 Elrod Common:
Adaptive leadership requires revitalization of civic life, such

that technical solutions to complex issues no longer suffice

Career Services

Quick Questions
comes to you...

Stop by

The Fitness Center,
Commons Living Room.
or Leyburn Library

to have your resume, cover letter,
interview, networking, internship, and
job search questions answered.

March 30"‘ - April lO*"
2-3 pm
Tuesdays in the Marketplace
ll:30am-lpm

KVASHINLTETON .M'dl)I.l31"-L UNIVi§RSIT’i”

CAREER®SERVICES

Reactions to shocking sexual assualt stats show W&L is hypocrisy

I am an English major.

I feel the need to state this
up front because I do not deal
with emotions. I deal with the
thoughtful and reﬂective articu-
lation of emotions. Thus, it is a
great aberration for me to utter
“repugnant,” “deplorable,” and
“unconscionable” with red face
and wildly gesticulating limbs.

Such was my reaction to in-
formation I received regarding
responses to KEWL’s “Love Your
Body Week” in conjunction with
SPEAK’s Take Back the Night
rally designed to give voices,
strength, and solidarity to those
of us who have been judged and
abused by a culture that applauds
the merits of men while degrad-
ing the value of women.

Then I overheard the follow-
ing from my seemingly well-edu-
cated ﬁrst-year male peers:

“Dude, what are
cards?”

“They’re so fat chicks with
low self-esteem can feel better
about themselves.”

The responses to the cards and
the posters on display through-
out campus have ranged from
concerns over the welfare of the
Common’s walls to pomograph-
ic displays to the reputation of
W&L in general.

To these ends, I question the
following: How does the cost
of repairing the shattered con-
ﬁdence of a woman raped by a
trusted friend compare to the cost

those

of a coat of paint? How can one
oppose vehemently the “pomo-
graphic” display of women’s bod-
ies cut from the pages of Cosmo
and defend the sale of Maxim in
the University Bookstore? How
does one remain mindful of the
future with a provincial attitude
that endorses sweeping issues
under the rug to retain the appear-
ance of gentility rather than sup-
port students actively engaged in
making the campus a better and
safer place to live?

And to those of you concerned
about the supposed material in-
appropriate for children, I would
like to remind you, as my good
friend so eloquently phrased it,
that the Commons is not a civic
center. If we cannot express
ourselves freely in a building de-
signed to bring our community-
not the greater Lexington com-
munity—together, will there ever
be a safe place for the necessary
albeit controversial discourse of
students hoping to enter the real
word as free-thinking adults?

I am sure no one would coun-
ter me in stating W&L is hardly
a campus of activists; therefore,
it amazes me how a few posters
commenting on the reality of
life at W&L can cause such an
uproar. To enact real change re-
quires provocative ideals along-
side incontrovertible fact, both of
which were embraced in the con-
struction of this campaign.

From an institutional stand-

point, W&L expects to be taken
seriously by peer colleges, and I
completely understand the neces-
sity of maintaining strong public
relations. But does anyone really
believe that the way to do this is
to hide behind a facade of student
eﬂicacy when, in reality, our at-
tempts are thwarted?

Yes, these statistics and im-
ages are terrifying and offensive.
But what is even more offensive
is the unwillingness to accept
the empowering message behind
them all in an effort to make
W&L safer, not just for women,
but for everyone. If we are to
deny these realities, then let us
stop pretending to be anything
other than an apathetic and rep-
rehensible student body.

No well-rounded, intellectual,
and innovatively—minded pro-
spective student would make a
decision on an institution of high-
er education without ﬁrst gather-
ing all the information pertaining
to his or her future safety.

Although a subsequent apol-
ogy was issued, tour guides were
commanded at the beginning of
the week to avoid the front doors
of the library at all costs because
parents would become alanned,
and the guides just would not
have the time or the infom1a-
tion to explain everything. Of
course.

How does one explain a rate
of sexual assault that is two times
the national average on a campus

that professes slavish devotion to
honor and accountability?

I am bound by conﬁdential-
ity as a result of my position as a
Peer Counselor, but I can tell you
that W&L’s rate of sexual assault
is not twice the national average.

It is much greater than that,
but we will never have a conclu-
sive statistic to validate my asser-
tion because ours is a culture, like
everywhere else in America, of
underreporting. It is demoraliz-
ing to see those around me dem-
onstrate such hostility to women
struggling for validation to over-
come the wrongs that have been
done to them simply because they
did not have the good fortune of
being born a man.

To those of you as enraged as
I have become this past week, I
urge you to initiate the ongoing
dialogue that the uninformed
among us have tried so imma-
turely to stymie. Why? Because
the outline of my body is now
strapped to a tree with statistics to
which the traumas of my friends
have contributed. Because my
story is on one of those cards that
you, dear ﬁrst-year male, derided
with such swift dismissal. I will
not be belittled. I will not be ig-
nored. And I will certainly not be
silent.

Yours,
Rebecca A. Koval
Class of 2009

W&L must act to curb sexual Violence

The time to create student-lea’ anti-sexual assualt policies is now

In the turbulence and excite-
ment of the aftermath of Love
Your Body Week, a campaign
that would have been impos-
sible without the wide-ranging
encouragement and support from
numerous student organizations,
concerned students, faculty, and
staff, I am left wondering: what
next?

As I have walked up and down
the stairs in the Commons, I have
been saddened, angered, empow-
ered, and inspired — but most of
all, I was impassioned. In one
short week, we were forced to
confront the statistics, the cold,
hard facts about our nation and
most importantly, our commu-
nity.

Through the secrets that we
shared, we brought these facts to
life. We saw that the jokes about
the hook-up culture are not jokes
to many of us, men and women
alike. That, although the SFHB
hardly ever hears a sexual assault
case, members of our community
have been indeed been assaulted

and raped by our peers and only
felt comfortable exposing it
anonymously. As a community,
we recognized our problems,
and many of us refused to be si-
lent about these crucial issues for
any longer. As I stood in a room
of at least 20-25 people making
outlines of their beautiful bodies,
I think we crossed a threshold.
It was painful, it was hard, and
some of us had to be pushed. But
we did it.

But what next? Those secrets
on the walls are only a step in the
healing process, both for each
survivor and for our university.
We cannot choose to stay com-
placent any longer... We should
not ask to hear more stories like
these before we act. Once should
be the last straw. We cannot only
engage in meaningful, produc-
tive conversation and action one
week a year. If we truly love and
respect ourselves, we will act and
we will act now.

I have never seen our campus
so vibrant as it was March 23“-

27“‘. I never felt more alive, more
powerful, and more conﬁdent in
myself and in the student body. I
can honestly say that I loved my-
self and everyone else who real-
ized the importance of the Love
Your Body Week message.

As a senior leaving in only
two months, I am hopeful. How-
ever, the road is long and we have
just begun the journey. As a
school that supposedly prides it-
self on self-govemance, we must
reassume our power. We must
institute student-created policies
on sexual assault and the danger-
ous substance abuse, which feeds
into our deplorable rate of sexual
misconduct.

When I and the rest of the
class of 2009 leave, this is your
campus. While the administra-

tion and admissions have a vested
interest in our campus image, it is
we, the students, who are raped
and perpetrate those rapes. It is
our responsibility to bring honor
into the system in a way that we
have frankly been unwilling to in

the past.

We must look beyond Post
Secret to our future. Let’s go be-
yond being “not unrnindful of the
future” — let us be active partici-
pants in our future, shaping it, not
being shaped by it.

My ﬁrst year, I vowed to help
leave this school better than I
found it. I believe I have fulﬁlled
that goal. As I prepare to leave
W&L, I hope to be leaving my
alma mater in capable hands. Be-
cause I refuse to come back to a
campus where the rates of sexual
assault and rape are higher than
the national average across the
board (for both women and men).
I will not tolerate an apathetic
student body. I will not toler-
ate more of the same. There are
some traditions that are simply
not worth keeping and our collec-
tive inaction is one of them.

We’ve recognized the prob-
lems, but that is not enough. We
must search for solutions.

Regina Mills ‘09

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI

0 inions

 

Hffman two-faced

New EC President shows his beliefs in campaign e-mails

By Jacob éelger
C 0 LU M N I S T

When Eric Hoffman, a second—year law student at
Washington and Lee, campaigned for the post of Executive
Committee president, he told undergraduates that he was
just another W&L student, albeit one who happened to
attend classes on the other side of Woods Creek.

The message was clear. Hoffman wanted undergraduates
to understand that he would conduct EC business in an
evenhanded way, not favoring one side of campus or the
other.

Over on the Hill, Hoffman ran as someone who could
relate to all members of the student body. Sadly, he was
running a very different campaign over at the law school.

In a campaign E—mail forwarded around by law
students, Hoffman outlined three reasons those students
should vote for him.

The first was budgeting for the Student Bar Association,
far and away the most important organization on the law
side of campus. Hoﬁman said law students should help
elect him so he could “make sure that the SBA gets as
much money as possible.”

The SBA is a worthy, important organization, of course,
and it deserves to be fully funded. But shouldn’t Hoffman
be running because of a desire to protect and promote the
Honor System, not so he can become appropriator-in-chief
for a law student organization?

Sadly, things go downhill from there in points two and
three. Hoffman wrote that he should be elected so the law
school could control ﬁve of the 13 seats on the EC. “This
would make a huge difference when it comes to Closed
Hearings, because the law students can provide a more
informed and mature point of view,” Hoffman wrote.

Wonderful! The incoming EC President thinks
undergraduates are immature and incapable of providing
a fully informed perspective on honor cases!

The third plank of Hoffman’s platform is quite simple.
If he’s elected, he thinks the law delegates can make sure
nothing will be passed by the EC that he and other law
delegates don’t think is in the law school’s best interest.

Sadly,'the arrogance over on the law school side of
campus doesn’t stop there.

Rick Hallenback, the SBA treasurer, urged law students
to elect Hoffman so that there would be “a more mature and
more tempered voice on the issues facing our school.”

~Again,7 the insinuation is clear: undergraduate leaders

"are not“mature enough or experienced to handle the

weighty issues of student self-govemance.

Ryan Germany, the EC’s outgoing third-year law
representative, added that having a law student as president
would help with SBA budget allocations and ensure that
major issues facing W&L “are deliberated maturely and
thoughtfully.”

Let’s stop and examine this whole question of maturity

An explanation is needed, Eric

If Hofﬁnan can tjustzﬁz his e—mails to the undergrads, he should resign

and thoughtfulness. The current EC is led by President
Rich Cleary and Vice President Ellie Hanson. Cleary was
a ﬁnalist for the Rhodes Scholarship, one of the most
prestigious graduate awards in the entire world and one
that looks heavily at a student’s leadership skills and ability
to deal with deep, complex issues. Hanson is a Boren
National Security Fellow. The fellowship helps facilitate
research and analysis of important issues surrounding
American national security.

Yep, those don’t sound like thoughtful undergraduates
to me. And we don’t need to stop at the academic
qualiﬁcations of our current EC leadership. I’ve dealt
extensively with both Cleary and Hanson over the last four
years, and they — like every other EC undergraduate leader
I’ve ever met or worked with — put an enormous amount of

I ’m not sure whats more disappoint-
ing: Hoﬂman s arrogance, or the fact
that he ran such different campaigns

on the two halves of our campus.

thought and consideration into their jobs on the EC.

W&L has had strong EC leaders come from the law
school before. Last year Josh Payne and Jane Ledlie, two
law students, provided excellent leadership as the student
body president and secretary, respectively.

But Payne and Ledlie treated undergraduates like
valued colleagues. They made real, _honest efforts to
build meaningful ties on both sides of campus rather than
focusing on what was best for the law school.

It’s possible that Eric Hoffman will manage to ﬁgure out
that his job is to rise above issues like getting more money
for the Student Bar Association. It’s possible that — in his
third year on this campus — he’ll ﬁnally drop his arrogant
belief that law students are necessarily more thoughtful
and mature when it comes to ruling on the fate of a student
or discussing the key issues facing our community.

It’s possible, but I’m not holding my breath.

I’m not sure what’s more disappointing: Hoffman’s
arrogance, or the fact that he ran such different campaigns
on the two halves of our campus. '

Hoffman told undergraduates that he was running as a
leader for all of us. But he told law students that he was
running to get them more money and protect them from
immature undergraduates holding the reins of power.

W&L students aren’t supposed to lie. But who was
getting the truth about Hoffman’s plans during the
elections? The undergraduates, or the law students?

Transcripts  Hoffman campaign emails .
From Eric Hoffmamseeond year law representative on the EC, candidate for presi-
dent: S ’ '

The BC serves as the student government and administers the Honor System forthe
entire University —~ so the BC is in charge with budgeting for ali student crganiia-
tions appointing students to student-run committees, meeting with faculty, the ad-
ministration and alumni, and overseeing any investigation or Closeﬂearing related’ I
to any alleged Honor Violation. If the EC President is a law student this is beneﬁciai
to the law school in a few ways: . I "5 I

l. SBA Budgeting: The EC decides how much money SAB gets for their entire bud-I _
get every year, and it would be very helpful and beneﬁcial for this process to V
have a law student at the helm, to make sure that the SBA getsas much money
as possibie. A I ‘ ’ ‘ I t

2. Greater representation for the law school. Ifl am elected EC president, that leaves
s I another spot open for our class to have a representative position. Because Bili I
Larson,.a first-year law student, won for EC Secretary, that would mean that a
Win for me would bring total law school representation on the EC to ﬁve out of ‘
13 (the rest being undergrads), instead of three out of 13. as we have now. This I
. can make a huge difference when it comes to Close[d] Hearings, because the
law students can provide a more informed and mature point of view - and since
we’re talking about expulsion ﬁ'om school, this can be a pretty big deal.

3. Great awareness of Law School issues on the BC: In the same vein, having-more
law students on the EC means that every decision that the EC makes affecting
student life will be fully aware of how it would atfcct the law school, and I think ,

; this would. mean that itwould most likely beiu the Law School ’s best -interest, 

or it wouldn’t pass.

From Rick Hallenback, Student Bar Association Treasurer
To:.Law Class of 2009, Law Class of 2010

You may not realize it, but everything the SBA does depends very heavily on the
EC for funding. In the spring, our new President and Treasurer will attend the EC’s "
budget hearings to ‘secure funding for all of the events sponsored by the SBA,,the
individual classes, and the law school’s organizations. It’s sometimes‘ easy to see the
EC as an undergraduate entity, but makes decisions that truly affect the live of all of
W&L’s students, inciuding law students. I

.1 ur[g]e you all, therefore, to take this opportunity to have an active rolein shap-

ing the EC. It is important that law students participate in the process because we '
have a more mature and more tempered voice on the issues facing our school. It is
imperative that we have effective and strong representation on the EC to make that
voice heard. ‘ . .. More representation on the EC means our concerns and interests are
more adequately addressed. I ure you all to come out and support your fellow law
students, your SBA, and the EC by voting today. s I I I i

From Ryan (irennany, 3rd year law representative on the EC
To: Law Class of 2009

  Having a_ in student as ac rresidem is obviously greatfor“the‘»law scseoi 4 it .

ensure that issues facing the law school get the attention they deserve and it also
helps with SBA budget allocations. In addition to representing the law school well,
Eric has shown that he puts just as much time and thought into issues facing just I
the undergrad campus or the University as a whole. Having a law student moderate
the discussion of these ensure that they are deliberated maturely and thoughtfuliy.
Thanks for your time, and please remember to vote today. I f

 

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS aonon

It’s time for Eric Hoffman to consider
one of two courses of action.

Our new EC President either needs to
explain some of the emails that originated
from his campaign for president, or it’s time
for him to resign.

Yes, you read correctly—-resign.

I won’t belabor the point and re—explain
the predicament Mr. Hoffman is in.

If youare unaware of what has happened,
I’d encourage you to read Jacob Geiger’s
excellent piece on this page entitled “Hoff-
man Two-Faced”

I agree with Geiger that, when he was
campaigning, Hoffman had tried to convey
that he “was someone who could relate to
all members of the student body.”

I also agree with Geiger’s sense that
“Hoffman wanted undergraduates to under-
stand that he would conduct EC business in
an evenhanded way, not favoring one side
of campus or the other.”

All the more reason for why Mr. Hoff-
man absolutely owes the undergraduate stu-
dent body an explanation for his emails and
those written on his behalf.

Both the transcripts of the emails and
Jacob’s article give you the emails’ ‘great-
est hits.’ Ungrads aren’t “mature” enough
to helm the EC. The Student Bar Associa-
tion should receive “as much money as pos-
sible.” If a policy proposal is not in the law
school’s best interests, it shouldn’t pass.
Eric Hoffman is the candidate for all these
problems, etc., etc., etc.

To be fair, let’s not rush to conclusions.
I can speak from experience—experience
as a columnist for this paper, in fact-—when
I say that words can be misunderstood.

Something written with harmless intent
can be takenout of context. I’ve been ac-
cused of being everything from racist to so-
cialist because people have misread unclear
writing of mine in the past (I’d like to think
I’m neither racist nor socialist, by the way.
I certainly don’t intend to be either).

So I don’t want to accuse Mr. Hoffman
of being a “carpetbagger,” as one friend la-
beled him upon reading his emails, at least
not yet.

But my patience and hesitation to judge
will be limited. All of us undergrads should
expect an explanation from Hoffman soon.
If we don’t get it, we should become ac-
cordingly upset.

If you’re reading this, Eric, I’ll even
make you an offer——use the Phi’s opinions
pages. I’ll even set aside some prime space
above the fold. Feel free to get into touch.
I’m sure a lot of my fellow undergrads are
looking forward to your response. We’ll at-
tempt to be patient and mature about this.

Of course, if an explanation for these
emails doesn’t materialize soon, all of the
undergraduates should be upset. The emails
were, frankly, very patronizing. Jacob used
the word “arrogant” to describe their tone.
It ﬁts.

I’m not saying that Eric Hoffman isn’t
mature, maybe even just as mature as the
other candidates he ran against.

One of Hoffman’s opponents that I
spoke with (who has been granted anonym-
ity due to the delicate nature of this issue)
said that Hoffman was “one of the brightest,
most articulate people I ever worked with
on the EC.”

Candidate X even said he wanted Eric to
win the position if he didn’t (which, obvi-
ously, happened).

But simply being bright and articulate is
no excuse for also being arrogant and pa-
tronizing, especially not when the person in
question holds such a powerful and influen-
tial position.

Hoffman is the figurehead of a system
based upon mutual respect and trust. His
emails suggest that he neither respects,
nor trusts the undergraduate population of
Washington and Lee.

The Honor System is also one which
should not be political. Some politicking
is necessary to get elected, of course. That
politicking is‘ distressing I suppose, but
only, for instance, in the same way the poli-

ticking that goes into electing a new Pope
is distressing.

What I mean is, you kind of want to point
out that the nature of the job should prohibit
anyone who would desecrate its purpose by
making it something political.

And all of this completely ignores the
other distressing portion of Hoffrnan’s
emails—the money. Hoffman, I can only
believe, will have tremendous sway in de-
termining where EC funds get allocated.
And I believe he actually will stick to his
campaign promise to bring the pork home
to the Student Bar.

Not that the Student Bar doesn’t serve
a great purpose, and not that they couldn’t
justiﬁably use greater funding. But that
type of one-minded allegiance to the Law
School disturbs me because I have to won-
der if Hoffman can say “when” when it’s
enough.

Or will equally valid organizations like
Students for Life, K.E.W.L., G.A.B., the
G.S.A., and others suffer ﬁnancial cutbacks
in the name of more SBA events?

The bottom line is that Hoffman needs
to justify what he and his advocates said on
one part Woods Creek to the people on the
other side. The undergrads Hoffman has not
expressed much respect for compose 4/5ths
of his constituency. He is responsible to us,
whether he particularly likes us or not.

So if he cannot justify what he said—if
he has no excuse for implying that under-
grads are immature, or planning on bring-
ing all the pork he can back home to Lewis
Hall, he needs to resign.

It’s nothing personal, of course. It’s just
that it would be shockingly hypocritical to
have someone who doesn’t respect most
of the school at the head of its Honor Sys-
tem (remember that whole mutual respect
thing?).

If Hoﬁman cannot explain his seemingly
condescending views of 4/5ths of Washing-
ton and Lee, he should at least prove he’s
mature by stepping aside and letting some-
one who actually respects both sides of our
University have a shot.

 
   

 

: TH E HEN
ii invites you to enjoy  
2 TWILIGHT DINING 

'€£"Monday through Thursday evenings until 6:30 p.m.
enjoy three courses of inspired Shenandoah cuisine for $35
 reservations strongly recommended

11 E. Washington Street Lexington 540-464-4401

www.redhenlex.com
OPEN Mon. - Fri. fbr lunch £9 dinner Saturday dinner 8 Sunday brunch

gecéy it Qectcwmt

P.El)Al. CAR DINER &. Tn: Tor Carr;

Order from our complete menu
Ur Join usfor one of our.-<iI;L YOU CAN EAT Buﬂizts.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 1tam~9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm-2am
Breakfast Bar ‘F Days a Week 6am~i tam
Daily Hot Country Bar ‘Ham-10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar iiam—iOpm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week?

Home C0t?k£’dfi’1c‘.’tifS & Srmiizern Hospitality!
mated at

ill Illmlil Plﬂl

l-81 & I-64. livit 193, 2516 l\il)fl'll Lee llwy., Lexington, VA

540-463-3478

Erent food & a great coltection of
Antique Pedal Cars 8: Tin Toys!

 

    

O

 

 

  

O,

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

THE RING—TUM PHI 0 5

 

opinions

———-~—-«H WASHING’1‘0N AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE

LIZ BLACKWOOD
ALEISHA BUTLER
MONICA cnmgr
MEGAN DAILY
NEVILLE roenrv
mcos GEIGER
WYATT HEATON
FINDLEY MERRITT
MICHAEL MORELLA
KATHERINE ROBERTS
BROOKE SUTHERLAND
HOLLY SUTHERS
VALAREE um:
VICTORIA TAYLOR
ROBERT WASON

LARA JORDAN
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is -the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully. and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students. faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to 'look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHl@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT

MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.

THE MEDIA BOARD

IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT—RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

LEE CAMPUS.

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN

CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING—TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
-C_OURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY,
THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059

exual assualt silenced

The University s reactions to Love Your Body Week were shameful »

By Alelsha Butler
COLU M msr

This past week KEWL spon-
sored a weeklong event entitled
“Love Your Body” (“LYBW”).

The purpose of the week was to
create a dialogue about women’s
bodies, to raise awareness about
the issues that affect women and
their self-images.

Part of KEWL’s mission was
to provide PostSecrets, a way of
anonymously expressing an inner
pain, embarrassment, or betrayal
that no one else knows about.

Another part of KEWL’s mes-
sage entailed posting statistics all
around campus about sexual as-
sault, and some of those posters
discussed the (abnormally high)
sexual assault statistics here at
W&L.

When we were gearing up for
LYBW in the days beforehand,
I myself thought that maybe the
week shouldn’t put so much focus
on the sexual assault statistics. I
thought that it really wasn’t re-
lated to KEWL’s message about
loving your body.

However, when I saw the in-
credibly negative reaction that
some of the faculty, staff and stu-
dents were displaying toward the
sexual assault posters, I had an
epiphany. Loving your body is
not just about being comfortable
in your own skin; loving your
body involves speaking up and
speaking out on its behalf.

Within the very ﬁrst day of,
KEWL’s campaign, several staff
members expressed concern over
the “potential offensiveness” of
some of the PostSecrets and post-
ers being displayed around cam-
pus. One administrator sent an
email saying, “there are people
in the W&L community that have

as offensive, particularly by folks
on campus tours, etc.” Thisstaff
person advised moving all the
PostSecrets to the display case of
the second ﬂoor of the commons.

They would make such an im-
pact on the staggering number of
people who walk by that display
case, wouldn’t they?

Another staff member from
the admissions office sent out an
email to the tour guides explicitly
ordering them to avoid the front
doors of the library where KEWL
had posted signs displaying some
of W&L’s less prestigious statis-

people were doing their best to si-
lence the statistics and the secrets
being presented to the public eye.

1. The “negative” and “offensive”

cards and posters around campus
seemed to be revealing an aspect
of the truth that people don’t want
to hear.

While I was talking with an-
other female student about the
reaction to LYBW, she said “well
this is a time of year that a lot
of prospectives come for tours.”
My answer to that statement is: so
when is a good time to talk about

the negative aspects of W&L’s

If administrators are uncomfortable with some

of the [sexual assualt] statistics they saw then

they should be motivated to act...not sweep

them under a T rident-emblazoned rug.

tics. She said, “We do not want
this to be the lasting image stu-
dents have of W&L... This has
nothing to do with the campaign
or with the mission of KEWL but
has everything to do with parents
freaking out without us having
time to explain ourselves and the
mission.”

In a later apology email the
same administrator said “but I
thought it hard for parents or
prospective students to have per-
spective on the issue without be-
ing a part of the larger campus
conversation that is going on this
week.”

My response to those last
comments is: what conversation?
What explanation can the school
possibly give for the high num-
bers of sexual violations we see

culture? When is there going to
be a time that no outsiders are on
campus?

Truthfully, if administra-
tors, students, faculty and staff
are uncomfortable with some of
the statistics and cards they saw
then they should be motivated to
action. They should be inspired
to change those statistics, not
to sweep them under a Trident-
emblazoned rug. You can’t be
shocked by our statistics and then
do nothing more than tear down
the posters.

The overall conservatism at
this school masks a gendered
power dynamic in which wom-
en’s sexuality, health and social
status is secondary, and this con-
servatism was evidenced by a
complaint that was made about a

sexually-charged images“ that
could be found in any fashion
magazine. It incorporated words
that were meant to raise questions
about the messages promoted by
these types of images. What do
children and adolescents learn
about sexuality via airbrushed im-
ages of muscular men dominating
delicate, pale women?

The complainant misinterpret-
ed the poster, saying “In a build-
ing such as the Commons where
the University hosts visitors, pro-
spective students, parents of pro-
spective‘ students and even CHIL-
DREN of the community I cannot
imagine that this is something we
want to display as portraying the
values of this place.” All I have
to say to that is if that bothers you
get off your high horse, because
the illustrious University sells
Cosmo and Maxim in the book-
store.

Gender inequality’s partner in
crime is silence. If some of the
images and messages displayed
this past week offended you,
then you should be motivated to
change them. The fact that sexual
assault is still not a formal honor
violation speaks volumes to the
permissiveness of our culture here
at W&L. Isn’t a sexual attack the
ultimate in violation?

Further, the attempt by sev-
eral people to “tone-down” and
avoid the realities put forth by
the LYBW posters was shameful.
That reaction does nothing but
translate a message to female stu-
dents that their health, safety and
peace of mind is less important
than the University’s image.

Why do we hide from the
truth? It may not be pretty but if
we ever want it to change it has to
be exposed, discussed and defeat-
ed in an open atmosphere where

 

EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

 Iaoiheetibr

already commented that some of
the secrets could be interpreted

here?

It is very clear that several

poster hanging in the co-op this
past week. The poster depicted

conversation is encouraged, not
stiﬂed.

Phi Kappa Psi suspension unjust

Former Phi Psi president Bruno calls on the University to correct the University Board of Appeals I

Members of the Student Body and
University Administration,

On Wednesday, March 11 the Uni-
versity Board of Appeals determined
that the IF C’s previous sanctions on Phi
Kappa Psi were “not appropriate given
the circumstances of the hazing viola-
tion,” and since Phi Kappa Psi “was al-
ready on Critical Social Probation when
the hazing incident occurred” the UBA
decided that suspension until January 9,
2010 was the more appropriate sanction
for the fraternity.

In order to expose the ﬂaws and in-
justices that occurred during the Phi Psi
hearing, we ﬁrst must go back to last
year when Phi Psi was put on Critical
Social Probation.

Aﬁer sitting in the SAC hearing
where the IFC’s sanction of Critical So-
cial Probation was created and upheld
by the SAC, I spent my tenure as Presi-
dent of Phi Kappa Psi ensuring that the
chapter complied with Critical Social
Probation; as a result, I have a unique
knowledge of the sanction that most on
campus do not share.

The UBA inappropriately misled
when they stated “if Phi Kappa Psi
violated University or IFC standards
during the subsequent calendar year it
would be considered for suspension or
dismissal from the University.” Rather,
Critical Social Probation was created
for our unique case during the Johnson
Scholar incident and pertained only to
open social events under University and
IFC standards. At the end of the hear-
ing, I speciﬁcally asked how this would
affect New Member Education and even
posed the question of how this would
affect a hypothetical hazing violation if
one occurred in the future; I was assured
by the SAC that Critical Social Proba-
tion is different from Critical Probation

and hazing violations would be looked
at separately from our Critical Social
Probation.

It is clear, then, that the UBA did not
follow this procedure. Following the
SAE precedent and others on campus,
one hazing violation typically leads to
Critical Probation, not suspension. So
at most, since Critical Social Probation
should not have been related to the hear-
ing, Phi Kappa Psi should have received
one year Critical Probation.

However, Phi Kappa Psi leadership
was not allowed to properly explain

View of the IFC sanctions and their jus-
tifications — not a rehearing of the case.
As a result, Phi Kappa Psi could only be
heard as a witness for the IFC. Yet this
was not the case, as the appeal turned
into a rehearing of the incident. Since
the UBA has the power not only to over-
turn the IFC ruling — the only power of
an appellate court — but also can make
decisions de novo — issue sanctions of
their own as if it were a hearing of the
case - then shouldn’t the defendant be
present and allowed to present an appro-
priate defense?

If Phi Psi had had the ability to provide a defense, the
[University Board of Appeals] would have learned
the dijference between Critical Social Probation and
Critical Probation...the UBA failed to ensure a just

outcome...

Critical Social Probation, and because
the UBA called Critical Social Proba-
tion by “Critical Probation” in its jus-
tiﬁcation, it is clear that the board was
not aware of the differences between the
two sanctions.

That leads me to the fundamental er-
rors that occurred during the UBA Hear-
ing. First, it is odd that the IFC’s sanc-
tions were appealed in the ﬁrst place.
Mike Young, acting as an‘agent of the
University, appealed the IFC sanctions
citing “insufficient penalty.” In accor-
dance with due process, isn’t it the de-
fendant who has the right to appeal, not
the judge, not the prosecution?

However, the appeal went forward
and Phi Kappa Psi was informed by all
those involved that thehearing was a re-

If Phi Psi had had the ability to pro-
vide a defense, the UBA would have
learned the difference between Critical
Social Probation and Critical Probation.
In this regard, the UBA failed to ensure
a just outcome and did as little as it pos-
sibly could have to execute any sort of
a fair trial.

The UBA needs to ﬁgure out if they’
want to be a judicial body or an appel-
late body because you cannot be both
and still maintain integrity.

Yet, interestingly enough, the UBA
should not have heard the case in the
ﬁrst place. After issuing the ﬁrst report,
the IFC went back and revisited the
case and found that Phi Kappa Psi, in-
deed, had committed a hazing violation
and issued a new report. According to

UBA rules, since new information was
presented to the UBA in the form of the
IFC’s new issuance, the UBA should
have remanded the case back to the IFC
for reinvestigation and re-sanctioning.

Overall, procedural errors in the sys-
tem have rendered student governance
ineffective and obsolete. Under the
guise of an appellate board, the UBA is
actually just another judicial body to ap-
ply pressure to student governance. Cit-
ing the zero tolerance policy on hazing,
the UBA and Mike Young argued that
suspension was the only appropriate
sanction for Phi Kappa Psi, especially
when considering the Critical Social
Probation. I counter this: a) Critical
Social Probation has nothing to do with
hazing but rather open social events and
b) zero tolerance does not mean one
sanction, it means that an appropriate
and constructive sanction is necessary.
Being the only hazing violation for Phi
Kappa Psi in recent history, the most
constructive and appropriate sanction
would have been Critical Probation for
a year.

If the University is actually serious
about Student Self-Govemment ~ I call
on them to make an appeal process that
actually serves the students, engages the
students, and allows the students to ap-
propriately participate.

The UBA suspended a chapter that
aims to help the IFC improve risk man-
agement in the Greek Community. Af-
ter receiving the Critical Social Proba-
tion sanction, as President, I wrote and
implemented a new risk management
policy that strengthened our on-cam-
pus risk management procedures and
brought many of them to off-campus
parties. While following this new pol-
icy, Phi Kappa Psi managed one of the
strongest recruitment efforts, gaining 20

new members. We proved to the Greek
Community that you can successfully
recruit, have fun, and still follow a strict
risk management policy. Following
the hazing investigation and the IFC’s
original sanctions, the Phi Kappa Psi
leadership rewrote my risk management
policy to include New Membership Ed-
ucation. The IFC even approached the
SAE leadership with our policies upon
their return to campus, and they subse-
quently adopted many parts of our risk
management strategy.

Phi Psi acting inappropriately is not
the question here any longer; that was
adequately addressed by the IFC. The
appropriate question concerns how the
UBA handled itself during the appeal
and how it proved that injustices in the
system not only exist, but blatantly af-
fect the results.

As I end my time at Washington and
Lee, I have realized that errors in a new
system do occur. While it’s unfortu-
nate when you or your organization is
the guinea pig to expose those errors,
the errors do need to be ﬁxed. I have
the utmost conﬁdence that Phi Psi will
survive suspension next year and return
on January 9 a stronger house — but no
one — not Dean Dotson, not Dean Wat-
kins, not President Ruscio can hide be-
hind a ﬂawed system without losing the
respect and trust of many great alumni
and students.

I challenge the school - I challenge
the student body to do what’s right and
improve the system and put full judicial
power back in the hands of the students
and create an appropriate appellate sys-
tem that follows due process and ren-
ders constructive sanctions.

Thank you,

Carson J.F. Bruno ’09

 

    

0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

arts&|ife

 

I Blown away

. ' Wind Ensemble Spring Concert is a hit

By Llz Blackwood
STAFF WRITER

On Tuesday, March 24, the Washing-
ton and Lee University Wind Ensemble
had its spring concert in Wilson Hall. The
program, selected by visiting conductor
Peter Del Vecchio, included a wide range
of songs that varied from the quick and ex-
citing to the slow and grand. “It’s a lot of
pieces I’ve loved through my career,” said
Del Vecchio.

His career has been a long one. Del
Vecchio has over 40 years of American
wind band experience under his belt and

- is an accomplished performer himself. He

currently serves as founding conductor of
the Southern Virginia University Wind En-
semble and director of the SVU Pep Band
in neighboring Buena Vista. Luckily, this
semester, he spent his time at Washington
and Lee, holding laborious practices with
the ensemble to make Tuesday the perfect
performance.

“Long and intense is how I would de-
scribe them,” said Henry Harris ’l2, a six
year percussion player, when asked about
the 7:30 to 10 pm practices.

Del Vecchio admits that practices were
“torturous,” but the effort obviously paid
off.

The concert was thoroughly enjoyable
and 1, although completely unfamiliar with
classical music, thought the ensemble did
an impressive job. My personal favor-
ite “Festivo” by Vaclav Nelhybel was an
upbeat, and strong piece featuring brass,
Woodwinds, and percussion in a textural
juxtaposition.

“It’s the most fun to play,” explained
Pete Rathbone ’ll, a seven year eupho-
nium player.

The ensemble, comprised of 60 people,
also features community members in ad-
dition to -students, who hold the majority
at 70 percent. Ranging from local Rock-
bridge high school students to Washington
and Lee faculty, the ensemble has 27 dif-

ferent instrumental sections. During the
concert, Del Vecchio advertised to the au-
dience that the ensemble is always looking
for more communityhnvolvement. He also
mentioned afterward to Dr. Barry Kolman,
the founder and conductor of the Univer-
sity wind ensemble, that he was excited for
incoming freshmen to join the group next
year. Five seniors performed in the con-
cert on Tuesday.

In addition to conducting, Del Vecchio
also showed off his composing skills with
his own piece “Trimurti.” Written when
he was only 23 while a “cloistered swami”
of the Sivananda Yoga Ashram in Reeders,
Penn., “Trimurti” is the symbolic musical
combination of the religious Hindu trium-
virate of Creation, Existence, and Destruc-
tion. Although “Trimurti” is close to his
heart, Del Vecchio admits that his favorite
piece of the evening was Gustav Holst’s
“First Suite in E-Flat major for Military
Band.”

“The ensemble exceeded my expecta-
tions,” said Del Vecchio. “It’s hard mu-
sic.”

Another piece performed during the
concert was the familiar “Irish Tune from
Country Derry,” or better known as “Dan-
ny Boy,” by Percy Aldridge Grainger. The
song featured a vocal performance by Mat-
thew Amling ’09, a member of the Univer-
sity Chamber Singers. ‘The lyrics of the
tune, written by English lawyer Frederick
Edward Weatherly in 1910, were origi-
nally intended as a parting message from
a-woman to a man, although now they are
widely interpreted to be the farewell of a
parent to a son heading off to war.

With a strong attendance and stirring
performance, the concert was most deﬁ-
nitely a success. Although not a frequent-
er of classical music concerts, I certainly
enjoyed the performance and look forward
the University Wind Ensemble’s next per-
forrnance.

It’s one class act

One Acts 2009 brings both laughs and tears

By Katherlne Roberts
STAFF WRITER

One Acts took place on March 26,
27 and 28. It featured ﬁve different
plays directed by theater students.

4 The plays provided a variety of fast-

paced, hysterical entertainment and
intense soul-searching drama.

Baby Food, directed by Junior
Marquita Robinson, told the humor-
ous story of an eerily protective cou-
ple trying to do what they think is
best for their newborn child and find

the perfect godparents. Their search_

for the ideal couple includes serving
the placenta or the umbilical cord to
potential godparents.

It featured Melissa Szumlic,
Francis McWilliams, Sophie Xiong
and Greg Zimmerman. Xiong, a
relative newcomer to the W&L the-
ater scene, successfully took on the
role of the discontent (and drunken)
wife. Zimmerman, who also made
his debut in One Acts 2009, made
the audience roar with laughter at
his rendering of Sophie’s somewhat
bumbling and awkward husband.
Szumlic and McWilliams pulled
off their strange, placenta-serving
characters with a comical grace. the
gravity with which the actors pre-
sented this terrifyingly ridiculous
premise made it all the more enter-
taining. That poor baby.

Senior Matt Harkins directed the
second play, There Shall Be No Bot-
tom. It parodies the traditional play-
within-a—play technique by including
actors whose motives include every-
thing but acting. Kimber Wiggs, as
Jane, simply wants to ﬁnd a date
from the audience. Jeff, played by
Wyatt Heaton, cannot understand
his lines. Nevertheless, he will stop
the action until he has said them cor-

Spring Is Here by Nevilie L. Fogarty

Head over to ringtumphicrosswordblogspot.com to check your solution to this weelds puzzle!

Across
1 Mediterranean city
7 F31! Out Boy's genre

10 Cause of intlation?
13 Little girl’s

plaything, maybe

14 1997 Ice Cube film
16 Horse trainer's

equipment _

17 Notable building
with twice as many
bathrooms as
necessary

18 French l0l yerb

19 Letter opener‘?

 

21 Stand for
something?

22 Cry outfor
24 Brainiac

26 Former House
Majority Leader
Tom

   

28 What to do to seeds
30 Guinness and others 69 - 7o
32 Webmaster‘s
creation
33 "Eureka!"
35 W59?“ b03’5 Wm be 63 Califomia dessert 9 The pianets. for 39 One face of a
503“ wine example dodecahedron
37 PC ‘3"ml3°"°m 65 Joyful hymn word 10 "Rugrats" roie 40 Party sort
33 5'39 l4‘D°W3 67 Blind devotion ii The second 41 Far from festive
42 L3“5in8"°‘Fiim di“ 68 Like haunted houses, §°mf“a‘}d"‘°"i 42 Subculture with tight
43 Round number? compared to imbltls 1‘ shirts and pants
44 "Baby" met by 8r’er °rdm31’Y h0U5¢5 32 (_)P‘°~‘mi"-fl 46 Chart holder
Rabbit 69 Sought a seat 14 See 38-Across 43 La Ema goo
45 Challenge for a 70 Nonetheless 35 They might be 50 "A11 in the Famijy"
barber 71 says g;$@_x springdoaded’? rage
47 One of two 20 "Take on Me" band 51 More spjne-ting1ing
armament control Down 23 Swget P33 52 Agrees to be 3
“cams: abbr‘ 1 g“lV”_5il§' mm’ 25 Home ( in on) witness, in a way
‘*9 S*°““~‘ “;°'g“‘ °'”‘ » 27 To this day 54 F-ilibuster
S3 teiam,  Afternoon service 29 Zoom . 56 net fads
55  eky K k , 4  top if 31 Shaker contents 59 Something to build
lms - 0l"S3 0V‘ S X remc su. ' IX . . , . _
«The -rage Qfmw 5 Gmm bmm 34 I hey re often bitter 0“
saltan" 6 S d i ‘d 36 Peter, for one 63 Played the m~1m¥33l
re‘ ' r "ill ,_ . ,
57 Screwed up 7 C: d_ dim‘ ff 38 But Fonda amt got (‘3 W... -lmdan
. . _ , ‘ ~ ’ emlca 5” ‘X a motor in the back 64 TV screen
58 lrayelers stopovers 8 L _ . _)
OCR: in El barns of her Honda — my (,6 Bonanza ﬁnd
60  b§'0VV'ﬂ """""""" "sq _  NIix_a_L0t
62 Kind of deposit

rectly. Ashton Sullivan plays Joe: an
actor who is probably drunk during
the rehearsal. Lastly, Jed, played by
Dima Slavin is not even part of the
cast: he ’s just a tech guy ﬁlling in for
an actor stuck in traffic.

All of the actors somehow pulled
off bad acting quite well. Wiggs,
Heaton, Sullivan and Slavin worked
particularly well as an ensemble
cast. Although each of their char-
acters was hilarious, the audience’s
attention was never focused on one
ﬂawed artist for too long. The plot
of this play isn’t made entirely clear
because the actors are just having so
much trouble. Parts of the set fall
over, sound cues sound off cue, and
the actors are trying to remind each
other of their lines.

Jenna Worsham, a junior, devi-
ates from the comical trend by se-
lecting a dramatic piece. The Ris-
ing of the Moon is set during the
tumultuous 20th century Ireland.
The characters are forced to ques-
tion their morals and decide exactly
which side of the law they are on.
It tells the story of an Irish sergeant
who has to choose whether or not to
arrest a wanted revolutionary.

The cast performed the entire
play in authentic Irish accents. Brian
Devine and Dave Curran, who play
the Sergeant and the outlaw respec-
tively, worked well as men who may
have been in the other’s place had
life taken a different turn. Their work
was far more introspective than the
other plays, compelling the audience
to question rather than chuckle.

Junior Markheavens Tshuma fea-
tured a small cast in his rendition of
Answering the Echo. Echo follow
the lives of a couple who may (or
may not) have hit a rut. I knew Echo
would be good when I saw the bed

with red silk sheets in the middle of
the stage. Appropriately, it’s a wom-
an’s attempt to ﬁnd out whether or
not her husband is cheating.

She writes the word “cutie” on
his back is astonished to ﬁnd the
word “pie” written next to it the next
day. Driven crazy by the prospect
of there being another woman she
keeps seducing her husband in order
to communicate with this woman
via his back.

Helen Coupe was captivatingly
crazy as the potentially-wronged
wife. Morey Hill, who played along-
side Coupe as her husband, gave the
play a heartfelt level. Shiri Yadlin,
my fellow theater goer, described it
as precious.

The Mystery of Twickham Vicar-
age, directed by Kevin Mannering
’10, closes out the show. Twickham
satirizes the histrionic tendencies of
the Sherlock Holmes style British
mystery.

Complete with piercing shrieks
and femme fatales, the over—exag—
geration brought tears to the au-
dience’s eyes. Over cocktails, we
learn, the murder victim criticized
the mundane nature of the conversa-
tion and the party: “We’re pathetic,
toothy, boring creatures with ridicu-
lous accents.”

And as the inspector ﬁnds out
through overdramatized revelations,
the man who was murdered has been
sleeping with all the suspects: his

S wife, the couple at whose house they

were having dinner, and the sofa.
Everyone has a motive, and every-
one is absolutely hysterical in both
senses of the word. To give away the
ending would be cruel... but suﬂice
it to say that the sofa is not entirely
innocent.

What did you do on
Fancy Dress?

Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity sponsors an
initiative led by Habitat for Humanity,

By Flndley Merrltt
STAFF WRlTER

On Saturday March 21 Washington and Lee students participated in a Habitat

for Humanity project.

Fancy Dress aspirations aside, the brothers of Phi Beta Sigma as well as a va-

riety of other students came together in Glasgow, Virginia.

Members of the fraternity included Chris Rucker, Marcus Newsome, Zaq La-

wal, and Bena Tsishiku._

However, students not afﬁliated with their greek organization also joined. “It

was deﬁnitely more of a collaborative effort,” explained junior Zaq Lawal.

The project was mainly orchestrated by Phi Beta Sigma member, Marcus New-

SOIIIC.

The initiative was part of their fratemity’s community service requirement, in

which they select a nonproﬁt organization to aid every so often.

Newsome worked with Nabors organization, who put him into contact with

Habitat for Humanity.

They gave him the location, contact information, and then volunteers came

running.

Habitat for Humanity is a nonproﬁt, ecumenical Christian housing ministry.
Essentially, they invite people from all backgrounds to work in partnership with
families in need. Through volunteer labor, Habitat builds and rebuilds houses
with the help of the homeowner families. Habitat houses are then sold to partner
families at little or no proﬁt and affordable loans.

As Lawal explained, “Low income families have the opportunity to get af-
fordable housing. However, they have to work so many hours on the house for
improvements in order to get it for free.”

The group worked from 9:30AM to 2:00 that aﬂemoon.

Their jobs were simply laying the foundation for the house, leveling the ter-
rain, and creating a perimeter. “We mainly worked on the foundation, but it was a
multiple step process,” explained Rucker.

The group did not get to meet the family they ‘were working for because they
were not present throughout the process.

However, the group did get to meet some of the board members from Habitat
for Humanity. ‘

Although s Newsome initiated the project, a Washington and Lee alum was
in charge of the overall process. Leo Decanini, class of ‘95, oversaw most of the
work. “He was incredibly impressed by our work and our attitudes. He kept saying
that,” explained Lawal.

When asked who the natural at construction work was, they responded Leo
Decanini. “He’s been around construction and handling machinery since he was
ten. He put us all to shame,” stated Rucker.

When 2:00 rolled around, the tired group packed up their stuff and reﬂected
on the work they’d just done. “There was deﬁnitely an air of satisfaction,” said
Lawal.

And the best part about the experience? “The lunch break,” joked Lawal. “No,
I’m kidding! The think I liked best was how well the group came together. Nobody
whined, despite the fact that it was FD morning, and the weather was amazing.”
Rucker agreed stating “It was the feeling of satisfaction I got from working for
someone else.”

Habitat for Humanity succeeded once again in providing families and students
with an experience they will remember.

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 30,2009

THE RING-‘TUM PHI 0

9

 

arts&|i e  

" They won’t give you the “Run-around”

ﬁ.

 

Activities Board.

others.

Blues Traveler concert is a
huge success for the GAB

John Popper is the lead singer and harmonica player
for Blues Traveler, the band that played for a large,
enthusiastic crowd in the Student Pavilion Friday
night. The concert was sponsored by the General

The most anticipated song of the evening was the
band’s well-remembered hit “Run-Around” from
1994. But the group also entertained the crowd with
a variety of other songs, such as selections from their
newest album, and a few improvisational moments.
From New Jersey, Blues Traveler was founded in
1987. Their sound has been described as taking from
the genres of blues-rock, folk, Southern rock and

KEVIN REMINGTON / for W&L

A darker side of campus culture  

Love Your Body Week surrounded by controversey, administration rumored to thwart KEWL is efforts

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee has often been
criticized for the gender dynamic on
campus. With nationahstatistics regard-
ing sexual assau1£’ﬁear1y‘d5iib1e thejiial
tional average, the criticism is all but
unwarranted. The organization, Knowl-
edge Empowering Women Leaders
(KEWL) launched a week-long cam-
paign in an effort to educate women and
prevent them from becoming another
statistic.

Love Your Body Week was a ﬁve-
day campaign sponsored by KEWL held
on March 23-27. KEWL worked along-
side other campus organizations such
as SPEAK and l-in-4 in order to raise
awareness about issues such as sexual
assault, gender relations, body image,
and eating disorders.

The campaign began with KEWL
members putting up posters with en-
couraging statistics about women in
various scattered locations throughout
the campus.

Tuesday focused on sexual health and
was co-sponsored by Voices for Choice.
The day featured a “Sex Wheel” that
asked its spinners questions regarding
sexual health. Condoms and brochures
concerning sexual health were also dis-

tributed.

Dr. Novack, from the Sociology De-
partment, collaborated with his wife,
who is a psychologist at Mary Baldwin
College, gavea ‘lecture entitled “Who

;CQnttOlS;v;W0mQﬂ’$ Bodies?: How. the H

Media Affects Female Body Image” on
Wednesday. In addition, KEWL began
implementing the white board compil-

; «

allowed women to realize that beauty is
not solely attributed to outward physical
attributes. Complimentary home-baked
goods were also provided at a table in
the Commons Living Room.

_,' The campaign included a PostSecret
campaign, which mimicked the move-
ment in which participants mailed con-
fessions to an address to be published in

“There are many different ways to educate people,

and a broad variety is sometimes necessary. In the

case of PostSecret, it provided a platform to talk

about different topics important to W&L ”

Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students

ing women’s favorite body parts.

Take Back the Night, promoted with
SPEAK, was held on Thursday and fea-
tured speakers that talked about their
traumatizing experiences with sexual as-
sault. KEWL members also put up more
posters about sexual assault statistics re-
garding women at W&L on Wednesday
in preparation for Take Back the Night.

Friday, Indulgence Day, gave women
the opportunity to “dress down” in pa-
jama pants and wear no make-up. This

a book that compiled their secrets. Love
Your Body Week gave students the op-
portunity to submit anonymous cards
to boxes located throughout campus
with confessions about body image and
sexuality. While the campaign aimed to
show women that they were not alone
in their problems regardingself image
and sexual health, the index-sized cards
caused a commotion among the student
body as well as within the University’s
administration.

Some submitted cards had “crude,
disempowering or insulting” messages,
according to Catherine Kruse, a member
of the KEWL executive board. Rumors
spread that the administration directed
campus tour guides to avoid the areas
that exhibited these offensive PostSe-
crets and daunting statistics about sex-
ual assault because it “revealed some
of the dark aspects of campus culture,”
said one administrator. In an email writ-
ten to a concerned student, Provost June
Aprille clariﬁed that the decision to re-
direct campus tours to avoid campaign
materials was made by a young staffer,
and was not sanctioned by administra-
tion. In addition, it was also reported
that Commons staff did not like the
image that the cards portrayed about
W&L. “These individuals were speak-
ing for themselves, and I hope you will
not jump to the conclusion that they
speak for the units and organizations in
which they happen to work,” said Pro-
vost Aprille in the same email.

Dean Dawn Watkins, Dean of Stu-
dents, said in an interview that she be-
lieved that “there are many different

, ways to educate people, and a broad va-

riety is sometimes necessary. In the case
of PostSecret, it provided a platform
to talk about different topics important

to W&L.” She also noted that there is
complete support for KEWL’s Love
Your Body Week campaign. A
A campus-wide email was sent by
Bob Strong, Chair ofggthe University

‘ Committee, o:;j1ng1usivéne’sé"an‘d Cam-

pus Climate. In the email, he wrote that
his committee “supports the efforts of
KEWL to raise campus awareness of
critical issues about body image, sexual
misconduct, sexual assault and violence
against women.”Further, he acknowl-
edged that the committee also is in dis-
agreement with illicit removal of Post-
Secret cards.

Despite the controversy that came
along with Love Your Body Week,
many students and administrators agree
that the campaign was a success. “To the
extent that they were trying to get us all
talking about women’s bodies and the
way in which they are shaped and used
by larger public discourses on what con-
stitutes femininity and sexiness, I think
the LYBW campaign has been an unde-
niable success,” said Professor Robin
Le Blanc, Acting Head of Women’s and
Gender Studies and advisor of KEWL.
She also said that the campaign has had
“real power.”

Announcement of a Fellowship for Members of the
Rising Senior and Junior Classes

Members of the Classes of 2010 and 2011 are invited to apply for the S. Cullum Owings, Jr.

Job Opening

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

Fellowship for the Academic Year 2009-2010. The holder of this fellowship will receive a credit of $1250
toward each term’s tuition and will be expected to make several visits to secondary schools around the
country to promote the Initiative for Academic Integrity under the guidance of the Washington and Lee
Institute for Honor. Together with most such visits, the Owings Fellow may also visit the local chapter of
the Washington and Lee Alumni Association to discuss the state of the University from a student’s point of
view, with particular regard to the Honor System.‘

Cullum Owings was a member of the Class of 2003, an exceptional individual from Atlanta,
Georgia, who died tragically in an automobile accident during his senior year.

The Fellowship is administered by the Campus Committee of the Washington and Lee Institute
for Honor. Criteria for selection of Owings Fellows are, ﬁrst of all, that the applicants should possess
outstanding personal integrity. They should be good scholars, but the fellowship is not limited to students
with exceptional grade-point averages. They should be articulate, with some grace and poise in demeanor,
while at the same time being sensitive to the values and opinions of others. They should be students who
show promise of developing into community leaders of high standards.

Applicants may submit their applications to Professor Emeritus Lewis G. John, Department of
Politics, through campus mail. There is no application form, but the application should include:

(I) A copy of the student’s transcript

(2) A resume of activities and special talents

(3) An essay of approximately 250 words with the heading, “How my personal values and
experience qualify me to represent Washington and Lee as a Cullum Owings ’03 Fellow”

(4) A statement of willingness to make the off-campus visits as described above

(5) Names of two or more members of the faculty from whom the selection committee may seek
recommendations

Applications are due by Friday, April 10, 2009. The selection process will include interviews early
in the spring term with those applicants judged most worthy on the basis of their written applications.
Questions may be addressed to Professor Lewis John at johnl@wlu.edu

The Washington and Lee Ofﬁce of Undergraduate Admissions announces
an opening for Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities include managing
a recruitment territory and travel schedule, conducting group information
sessions and interviews, and evaluating admission applications. Other
duties will be assigned based on the selected candidate’s background and
skills. Evening and weekend work is expected during the academic year,
especially during peak application reading and travel seasons.

A Bachelor’s degree, a valid driver’s license, and the willingness to
commit to the position for a minimum of two years are required. Strong
communication skills and demonstrated organizational abilities are
expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and able to work
as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet will be capable of
creative self-direction. Preference will be given to W&L graduates.

Interested candidates should apply for the position through W&L’s Human
Resources website (go.wlu.edu/jobs) no later than Sunday, March 29,
2009. A W&L Employment Application, a cover letter, resume, and the
names of three references are required. '

  

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2009

10 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

deck

 

Mon Tues WED Tnuns FRI SAT SUN
vs
vs
Baseball tynchburg shenam
h
(X2) doa
3 pm_ 3 p.m.
Golf
VS
Men’-9 Guilford
Lacrosse
5p.m.
- at VS
WOIIIOIIIS I-ynchburg Homns
Lacrosse 7 p_m_
4 p.m.
Men's
Tennis
at
Women's Randolph
Tennis 430 P m
Riding

 

numbers
0

The number of times before this year that all one, two and three seeds

made it to the Sweet Sixteen NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament.

7

The number of overtime periods in the Virginia-Maryland men’s la-
crosse game Saturday. Virginia beat Maryland 10-9 in the longest

game in NCAA men’s lacrosse Division I history.

25

The number of consecutive seasons that Arizona has made it to the
NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament. The longest active streak, Ari-
zona is two seasons behind the record held by North Caroiina (1975-

2001).

 box

“In a 508-page manual, a mistake could have

 

been made. Do I know that any have been
made? No, I’m not making judgments one way or
the other.”

Connecticut head men’s basketball coach Jim Calhoun on the
possibility that the team could have committed a recruiting violation.
In a report Wednesday Yahoo! Sports claimed that former Connecticut
manager Jo h Nochimson illicitly provided Nate Miles with hotel stays,
meals and raveling expenses when he was a recruit. Courtesy of the
Connecticut Post.

“Somebody said that we’re not in President
Obama’s Final Four, and as much as I respect
what he’s doing, really, the economy is something
that he should focus on, probably more than the
brackets.”

Duke head men’s basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski after President
Obama picked Duke to lose to Pittsburgh in the Elite Eight round on a
Sportscenter special on March 18. Duke ended up losing to Villanova
77-54 Thursday in the round of sixteen. Courtesy of foxnews.com.

“You hear all the speculation, and you talk to the
owner of the team, and he reassures you, you're
not going anywhere and then, out of left-ﬁeld and
you get blindsided. "

Wide receiver Terrell Owens on how team owner Jerry Jones told him
that he would be back in 2009 and then later released him. Owens
also said that he thinks Cowboys executives pressured Jones Into
making the decision. Courtesy of espn.com.

W&L and VMI host track carnival

Generasl ’ track teams ﬁnish strong, Andrews breaks a school record

By Kevin Corn
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee hosted a track
meet with Virginia Military Institute called
the W&L/VMI Carnival this weekend.

Despite the cold and the rain, W&L had
a strong meet, and the men’s and women’s
track teams held their own against a large
ﬁeld of participants. Senior Grace Andrews
was even able to break a school record in
the hammer throw with a distance of 33.46
meters.

The women were also led by senior
Becca Taylor who took ﬁrst in the 3000
meter Steeplechase after crossing the ﬁn-
ish line in a time of 11:37.98. Seniors
Elizabeth Webb and Jessica Shaw also had
strong showings as each captured third in
their events. Webb ran a time of 17:51.39 in
the 5000 meter race, while Shaw’s 4:51.69
came in the 1500 meter run.

Taylor said, “It felt great! And I’m ex-
tremely excited to be able to say that I won
the very ﬁrst steeplechase run on our new
track.”

Shaw also shared her excitement: “I
was really stoked about my race. I don’t
usually run the 1500, but I had a blast. The

atmosphere was competitive and exciting.
The girls in my heat really pushed me, and
in the end, that’s what we all needed.”

Junior Sallie Armstrong notched ﬁrst
in the Heptathlon with 2,190 points, while
senior Stacy Doombos had two top ﬁve
ﬁnishes in the 100 meter hurdles and the
100 meter dash. Her times were 15.40 and
12.92, respectively.

“It was nice to be competing against
women from schools other than the usual
ODAC crowd,” said Armstrong after her
event.

On the men’s side, junior Ben Goetsch’s
leap of 1.88 meters in the high jump gave
him a second place ﬁnish. Junior Billy Bil-
lington had a strong day in the ﬁeld, as
well. Billington ﬁnished ﬁfth in the Ham-
mer Throw after a toss of 45.34 meters.
Then, in the discus, his throw of 39.34 me-
ters was good enough for seventh.

Sophomore Jeff Giordano took second
in the 100 meter dash in a time 11.20, and
fourth in the 200 meter‘ dash after a time
of 27.60. Senior Vance berry once again
had a strong meet as he ﬁnished seventh
in the 1500 meter run with the fast time of
4:02.83.

“I’m really excited about the quality of

training we have been getting from Coach
Tucker” commented Berry. “The distance
squad has a long-range plan that should
keep us on a steady improvement curve
from here to ODACs, and it seems to be
working to perfection.”

With so many teams present, the Gener-
als had strong competition.

“I think that having such a large pool of
people forced us to push ourselves more,”
commented Andrews. 1 know that I looked
at the number of participants and was in-
timidated, but then I realized that amongst
such great competition, I had the chance to
do better then I normally do.”

“I thought the large number of competi-
tors provided us with a good chance to mea-
sure our performances against other solid
division one and division three teams,”
added Goetsch. “If anything, I am sure it
provided additional energy and motivation
that might not be there with a small meet.”

“This meet was our ﬁrst home meet in
2 years. Combiningfacilities with VMI at-
tracted a variety of high quality competi-
tion,” concluded Webb. “I think our team
really rose to the occasion and put out all
sorts of stellar performances.”

Lax defeats Virginia Wesleyan

Team comes out [6-6 with a 5-0 lead early in the game on Saturday

By Megan Dally
STAFF WRITER

The Men’s Lacrosse (9-1, 1-0) team had
a great showing this past Saturday against
Virginia Wesleyan. The General’s won the
contest, 16-6. Washington and Lee jumped
out to a 5-0 lead early in the game and nev-
er slowed down.

Last year the Generals split with Vir-
ginia Wesleyan. Wining 9-6 at home but
then losing 12-13 away. The Marlins also
ended last year’s season in a heartbreaker.
This year however, the Generals used this
opener against ODAC competition to make
a statement. A ten-goal victory means busi-
ness. The Generals are gearing up to make
a run in the ODAC tournament.

In the ﬁrst half, ﬁve different Generals
found Marlin net. The Marlins scored late
in the second half, but then senior attack-
man Seth F ishman scored three straight
to push the score to 8-1. Right before the
1st half ended, Virginia Wesleyan scored
2 goals, however with seven seconds left,
sophomore midﬁelder Drew Koeneman
fed a pass to junior attackman Will Keigler
who upped the score to 9-3.

Women’s tennis on top

By Brooke Sutherland
STAFF WRITER

The number two ranked Washington
and Lee University women’s tennis team
proved it deserved to be among the top
teams in the country this weekend with a
strong showing in the Fab Five Tourna-
ment at Emory University in Emory, Geor-
gia. The Generals, -now 12-3, took a 5-3
win against #13 Middlebury College and a
7-2 win over #12 DePauw University be-
fore falling 5-4 to #1 Williams College.

“The Fab Five was created because
women in Division III tennis did not have
an ITA [Intercollegiate Tennis Association]
indoor championships,” said head coach
Eric Ishida. “The men in Division III have
it and of course the Division I teams. It’s
meant to get highly ranked teams together
to compete. It’s deﬁnitely a way for teams
to prepare themselves for the end of the
year. “

In its ﬁrst match-up against Middlebury
Thursday morning, the Generals com-
pletely swept the doubles. Senior Katie
Tabb and junior Lauren Caire knocked off
Middlebury’s Elizabeth Stone and Chandra
Kurien at 8-3 in the #1 doubles spot, fol-
lowed by a hard-fought win by ﬁrst year
Ellen Yeatman and senior Meg Spalitta
over Middlebury’s Anna Burke and Clare
Burke at 9-8 (12-10) at the #2 doubles
spot. The Generals’ #3 doubles team, ﬁrst
years Trelsie Sadler and Ann Morris held
their own against Middlebury’s Alexandra
Guynn and Victoria Aiello with an 8-3 vic-
tory.

“Going into the Middlebury match, we
knew they were going to be better indoors,”
Ishida said. “We also knew that they were
strong at doubles so we really focused on
doubles and starting the doubles off well.
All of our doubles played well. They deﬁ-
nitely stepped it up.”

The Generals struggled in singles,
however, winning only two of its six
match-ups. Tabb fell to Aiello, 6-4, 6-4,
at the #1 singles spot while Yeatman was
knocked off by Kurien at 6-1, 1-6, 6-4 in
the #2 singles spot. First year Jen Snyder
lost in #4 singles to Stone at 6-3, 6-3. #6

In the 3rd period, Virginia Wesleyan
scored an unassisted goal, but the Generals
not to be outdone ripped 3 past the Mar-
1in’s goalkeeper in the third period. Then
for added measure, the General’s went on
another 3-goal spree to put the game out
of reach.

Overall the General’s displayed domi-
nance in all aspects of the game. W&L
held the advantage in shots taken over the
Marlins 52-32, in ground bails 41-34, and
in faceoffs 17-8. Because of their on-ﬁeld
focus and execution, W&L was able to sail
to a ten-point victory.

Ten different Generals scored on Satur-
day. Fishman and Keigler scored 4 goals.
While Senior attackmen Tim Skeen, senior
midﬁelder Harry St. John, sophomore at-
tackman Spence Daw, sophomore mid-
ﬁelder Mark Wachtmeister, freshman Scott
Meehan, junior midﬁelder Kevin Feeney,
junior midﬁelder Deets Hoffman and soph-
omore midﬁelder Gerard Savarese all net-
ted one goal.

Some great assists catalyzed the Gen-
eral’s offense. Daw and Keigler both con-
tributed three assists. Koeneman and Skeen

singles player Spalitta was unable to ﬁn-
ish her match against Anna Burke due
to restrictions on court time. With those
loses, the match looked like it might fall
to Middlebury’s favor, but two ﬁrst years
stepped up to bring Washington and Lee to
victory. Sadler claimed #3 singles with a
1-6, 6-2, 6-4 win over Clare Burke and ﬁrst
year Laura Patillo contributed a 6-4, 1-6,
6-3 victory over Whitney Hanson at the #5
singles spot.

“We lost four of the ﬁrst sets in our sin-
gles matches,” Ishida said. “You just can’t
do that. But I’m glad we rallied to win
those #3 and #5 matches.”

“Our match against Middlebury was in-
side so it took a lot longer,” Ishida said. “I
think we were on the court for about six
hours. It just wears on you both mentally
and physically and then you have to get up
the next day and play again.”

The Generals showed no sign of fatigue
though as they once again swept the dou-
bles against DePauw. Tabb and Caire de-
feated DePauw’s Greer Mackie and Kayla
Smith 8-6 in the #1 doubles spot and Yeat-
man and Spalitta racked up another vic-
tory with an 8-3 win over Janelle Arita and
Kelly Gerbert in the #2 doubles spot. In #3
doubles, Sadler and Morris held out for an
8-4 victory over Kristine Lewry and Tricia
Wilks.

“We were able to start the doubles
quickly and get a quick lead like we did
against Middlebury,” Ishida said. “We
were ready for them and we were able to
pick apart their doubles teams and frustrate
them. But we didn’t want to see the same
let down in singles. We wanted to get a
more solid victory.”

And the Generals did not disappoint.
Tabb claimed #1 singles with a 6-4, 6-4
win over Arita, followed by an easy 6-1,
6-1 win by Yeatman over Mackie for #2
singles. Sadler and Patillo, the lone singles
winners from the Middlebury match, both
struggled. Sadler lost 6-3, 6-2 to Gerbert
in the #3 singles spot and Patillo fell to
Wilks 6-1, 6-3 in #5 singles. But the Gener-
als quickly recovered their losses. Snyder
claimed #4 singles with a 6-1, 6-0 victory

each added two assists. While sophomore
attackman Drew Mancini, junior defense-
man Garrott McClintock and freshman
midﬁelder Richard Schoenfeld all contrib-
uted an assist.

Senior goalkeeper Connor Locke played
53:41 minutes and had ten saves. Sopho-
more goalkeeper Ned Lundvall played 6: 19
and had 3 saves and did not allow a goal.

Washington and Lee returns to action
on Wednesday, hosting another ODAC op-
ponent, Guilford College. F ishman had this
to say about the upcoming game, “Every
game for us is a chance to show the rest
of the ODAC and the country what we are
about as a lacrosse team. Against Guilford
our focus is to play 60 minutes of sound
lacrosse. We have to take what we did well
against Virginia Wesleyan and use it to
move forward. I don’t think we will have
any problems doing the same things to
Guilford that we did to Virginia Wesleyan.”
Washington and Lee’s Men Lacrosse team
will be facing ﬁve important ODAC games
in a row in preparation for the ODAC tour-
nament.

Team ﬁnishes strong
tournament this weekend

over Smith and Spalitta rounded out the
Generals’ victory with tough 6-1, 7-6 (7-2)
win over Lewry.

“Against DePauw, we played as well as
we’ve played in the tournament,” Ishida
said. “It was much better than the match
against Middlebury. With your second
match, you kind of step up your game a
little bit and work out the bugs.”

And the Generals wanted to make sure
they had worked out all the bugs for their
next match against #1 Williams who had
defeated Washington and Lee last year in
the ﬁnals of the NCAA championships.

“With Williams, you have to make them
play,” Ishida said. “You have to make them
hit a lot of balls. You can’t hurt yourself;
you have to make them create their mis-
takes and capitalize on the opportunity to
ﬁnish points.”

Unfortunately, the Generals fought their
hardest, but just couldn’t pull out a win
against Williams. After sweeping doubles
against its previous two opponents, Wash-
ington and Lee won just one doubles match
when Tabb and Caire defeated Williams’
Cary Gibson and Nicole Reich 8-3 in the
#1 doubles spot. Yeatman and Spalitta fell
to Taylor French and Grace Baljon 8-2 in
the #2 doubles spot and Sadler and Morris
lost 8-2 to Kristin Alotta and Genny Loo-
mis in the #3 doubles spot.

In singles, Tabb defeated Baljon 6-4, 3-
6, 6-4 for #1 singles and Yeatman defeated
Gibson 2-6, 6-3, 6-1 for #2 singles. Spalitta
also contributed a win in #6 singles with a
6-3, 4-6, 6-1 victory over Annie Hancock.
But the Generals struggled in their other
singles matches and ultimately fell just
short of a revenge victory over Williams.
Sadler lost to Reich 6-4, 6-2 in #3 singles
and Alotta defeated Snyder 6-3, 6-3 in #4
singles. Patillo was defeated 6-4, 4-6, 6-0
by Ashley Parsons in the #5 singles spot.

Despite the loss to Williams, the Gen-
erals remain positive. After their strong
performance at the Fab Five Tournament,
the team is already looking ahead towards
the national championships and hoping to
claim another banner to sit alongside their
prize from 2007.

‘)

 

