O
2;
C‘ I
in
4 .
N
ls.
/\.l

 

  1-1 Weekend

Read the highlights of the women’s

basketball games]
SPORTS / page 6

  

WASHINGTON AN LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXILNUMBERI4

Wide open
spaces

Leyburn Library is main
ﬂoor opens for business
after extensive renovations

Trident goes online

Past debt prevents the  rident from continuing to print

 

By John Henderson
N EWS EDITOR

Spacious, bright, good colors, great comput-
ers and lots of places to sit-- these are some of
the words students have used to describe the
newly renovated Leybum Library main ﬂoor,
which was officially opened at 9 am. last Mon-
day.

By 1 p.m., clusters of students were already
at work around the library. Some were sitting in
the front of the library wherecouches and arm-
chairs are arranged in Various conﬁgurations for
group studying.

Some students had spread out their books on
the long tables or the shorter booth—style tables
in the reference section in the middle.

Still others occupied the group study rooms
in the back and the new computer stations that
ﬂank the glass-fronted offices used by library
staff.

In addition to those who were quietly work-
ing, rnany Visitors walked around to explore
the new space, which includes a centrally-lo-
cated infonnation desk where stylish cylindrical
lights overhead give the clear plastic desk-top a
translucent glow. ‘

For newcomers, there is a sense of awe
at seeing how the old main floor, a poorly lit
labyrinth of shelves and oﬁ‘ices, has been trans-
formed into abright, inviting work place.

“It feels like a normal college library should
 not like a dungeon,” said sophomore Lauren
Skerrett, who had set up shop by the new com-
mons-side entrance to do work last Thursday.

“It used to be the last resort, like, if you can’t
do work anywhere else then OK, I ’ll go to the
library. But now it’s like, ‘Oh, let me go to the

See “Library Opens” on page 2

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

The Trident, one of Washington and
Lee’s student newspapers, has made a
transition from print to web publication
due to issues with funding.

Because of prior debt , the Trident has
been struggling to fund print editions of
the newspaper.

“We are choosing to cut costs and
publish strictly online,” said Editor-in-
Chief Alexandra Scaggs. “We think that
we can reach the student body and alumni
better this way.” ’

While the EC has never provided
funding for the Trident in the past, writ-
ers for the Trident approached EC mem-
bers to request funds for coverage of old
expenses. The EC did not provide fund-
ing to the Trident for reasons which one
EC member said were conﬁdential.

Nonetheless, the Trident has been
receiving a steady stream of income
from advertisements this school year

“When you take the news-
paper aspect out of a
campus newspaper, you ’re
bound to lose some reader-
ship.

John Scully, back page columnist for
the Trident

that should cover old costs, according to
Scaggs. The debt that the Trident owed
was incurred prior to Scaggs becoming

ticles online on Feb. 3 and should con-
tinue to put out articles exclusively on
the lntemet for the rest of the school
year. Scaggs is hopeful that the Trident
will serve the student body with breaking
news via email. A blog for commentary
will also be available.

The Trident will be publishing weekly
issues, with about five news stories, four
sports stories, and the same writers in the
Distractions section each week. The Tri-
dent will feature breaking news updates
that can be accessed by registering at
www.thetrident.org. The Trident is cur-
rently seeking a Web master to improve
the appearance and layout of the web-
site.

While the Trident has not advertised
its transition from print to web, writers
remain conﬁdent that the changeover will

the Editor-in-Chief.

The Trident started publishing its ar-

See “Trident" on page 2

Recyclemania: bring your bottles

Recycling initiative designed to create sustainable waste disposal begins

VICTORIA TAYLOR / Staff Writer
7

John Coffey, a facilities management grounds worker, loads
mixed paper onto a truck to be taken to the recycling center.

By Victoria Taylor
STA F F W R IT E R

Make sure that you prop-
erly, dispose your plastic cups
because Recyclemania is un-
der way.

Washington and Lee Uni-
versity is participating in the
10-week collegiate compe-
tition to increase recycling
awareness and promote waste
reduction.

The Recyclemania compe-
tition started on Jan. 18 and
continues until March 28. It
is a project of the College and
University Recycling Coun-
cil and is administered by the
National Recycling Coalition.
This year, there are over 500
participating schools.

Washington and Lee’s par-
ticipation complies with Presi-
dent Ruscio’s Climate Com-

toward achieving climate neu-
trality that he signed in 2007.
It is one of the many aspects
of the campus’ sustainability
initiative to become more en-
vironmentally friendly.
Participating schools weigh
and measure the amount of
trash and recycling that they
collect and then report their

 

mitment, a pledge to work.

data by using a forum on the
Recyclemania website. The

data is then ranked to deter-

mine which school has col-
lected the least non-recyclable
waste per capita, the most re-
cyclable waste and the highest
recycling rate.

As a member of the bench-
mark division, W&L’s results
are reported but are not in-
cluded in the official rankings.
Therefore, W&L is not eligible
to win the competition.

Environmental manage-
ment coordinator Chris Wise
explained that Washington
and Lee is not in the competi-
tion division this year because
of the changes caused by the
campus’ incorporation into
Lexington’s curbside recy-
cling program.

In the past, everything
that was recycled on campus
was measured and weighed
separately, Wise said. Now,
aluminum bottles, cans, plas-
tic bottles and cardboard can
be placed into the city’s blue
dumpsters on campus and be
collected as part of the pro-
gram.

Although W&L cannot win
Recyclemania, Wise said that
the campus is involved in the

waste management aspect of
the competition. He explained
that the goal of waste manage-
ment is to not only reduce the
quantity of trash sent to land-
ﬁlls but to cut back on recy-
clables as well.
“Recyclemania is about
trying to see how many tons

“I would hope we
can keep people is at-
tention long enough
to instill lasting
habits of green life-
styles. 

Kara Fitzgibbon, Student

Environmental Action
League co-president

of plastic water bottles you
can recycle,” Wise said, “but
the fact is that there are other
ways that you can drink water.
Any time you recycle some-
thing you actually purchased it
in the ﬁrst place.”

Although the Student En-

vironmental Action League
(SEAL) has taken a lesser
role in Recyclemania this
year, sophomore co-president
Kara Fitzgibbon said the or-
ganization will continue to
raise awareness on campus.
She mentioned that SEAL is
responsible for the eco-facts
in the daily Campus Notice c-
mails and that its members are
working on posters with easy
tips on how to be green.

Fitzgibbon said she is
pleased with W&L’s efforts
toward sustainability.

“I deﬁnitely feel there is
an increased awareness of re-
cycling on campus,” she said.
“With this new fad of going
green it seems that the issue
is at the very least out in the
forefront, and I would hope
we can keep people’s attention
long enough to instill lasting
habits of green lifestyles.”

Wise agrees.

“I think that there has been
more interest on the part of
students,‘ fraternities and so-
rorities thisyear to try to talk.
about recycling and other sus-
tainability-type issues like re-
ducing the amount of energy
and eating local foods,” he
said.

  

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

LEXINGTON, VA 24450
FEB 1 0 2008

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

 

Where did we go Wrong?

Economist writer Greg Ip reviews past mistakes, forecasts economic future

By Anne Vesoulis
STAFF WRITER

Students and faculty alike
crowded room 327 in Huntley
Hall to hear Greg Ip, a writer
and editor for the Economist,
talk about America’s ﬁnancial
future last Thursday evening.

In his speech, “Economic
9/ ll,” Ip explained how Amer-
ica has reached its current eco-
nomic nadir. Ip described the
approximately ﬁve year period
leading up to today’s ﬁnan-
cial crisis as the “great mod-
eration”—a period of time with
low interest rates during which
America’s perception of risk
greatly declined.

“We had our houses to fall
back on,” Ip said. “We looked
to our houses as ATM’s. We
had this idea that home prices
wouldn’t decline, so we bought
houses instead of stock. We
didn’t question lower income
families receiving mortgages.”

In terms of the global econo-
my, America is “the best house
in a bad neighborhood,” Ip said.
With the economic downturn
causing a global panic, Ip con-
siders the United States to be the
most fortunate.

In a question and answer pe-
riod, Ip explained the possible
geopolitical changes that could
take place due to the economic

downturn.

“It’s going to be hard to make
a case [for other countries] to
adopt free capital,” he said.

Ip began his business jour-

worked at the Wall Street Jour-
nal for over ten years and began
working for the Economist in
July 2008.

His opinions and insight re-

“We had our houses to fall back on. We
looked to our houses as AT M is. We had this

idea that home prices wouldn ’t decline, so

we bought houses instead of stock. ”

Greg lp, writer and editor for the Economist

nalism career at the Vancouver
Sun in 1989. He then trans-
ferred to the Financial Post and
the Toronto Globe and Mail. Ip

Library opens

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

Michael 0’Brien (left) and John Ditore take advantage of the new work space on
the Leyburn Library’s main floor.

Trident goes out of print

continued from page 1

go over with little to no complications.

“The Trident is still trying to work on the transition and
hopeﬁilly it will go as smoothly as possible,” said Markheav—
ens Tshuma, writer of the column'“Lex and the City” and for-
mer distribution manager. “Students, alums and parents alike
are very dedicated to the Trident so we foresee the majority of
our readers coming along with us to this new chapter.”

Some readers look forward to the switch from print to web

publication.

“I’m excited to read the Trident online,” said sophomore
Becky Guynn. “I think that it’s great that the staff of the Tri-
dent have found a way to continue to publish stories despite

their ﬁnancial situation.”

While the Trident is now available to anyone with a com-
puter, it will still be written for the W&L community.

“I am getting really positive feedback from alumni on our
website,” said Scaggs. “We welcome any more comments or

suggestions people have.”

The Trident is the only student web publication at Wash-
ington and Lee other than the Rockbridge Report, a faculty-
advised student publication in the journalism school.

Not everyone is as positive about the transiton. “When you
take the newspaper aspect out of a campus newspaper, you’re
bound to lose some readership,” said John Scully, a Trident

writer.

Scaggs remains conﬁdent that the Trident’s success from
the print editions will carry over to its Web publication.

“I’m pretty excited about taking the paper online. We have
great staff members and writers, and I can’t wait to see where
we can take the website,” she said.

garding the current state of the
economy are respected by pro-
fessionals across the country.

“I thought Mr. Ip was incred-

ibly interesting,” said junior
Katie Boiles. “His lecture was
probably the most concise, well
though-out description of what’s
going on. He really did an amaz-
ing job of providing all of the

historical background necessary I

to understanding our current
problem. . .I never got bored.”

Professor Brian Richardson,
head of the journalism depart-
ment, thought Ip’s ability to ap-
peal to non-economists made
his lecture a success.

“I’m not an economist, but
from what I do understand, he
is very knowledgeable,” Rich-
ardson said. “He speaks Eng-
lish--he has a rare ability to of-

fer a sophisticated analysis in a
language everybody can under-
stand. That’s hard to do.”

Toward the end of his talk, Ip
provided insight regarding the
future of America.

“There need to be some pro-
found ‘changes, and I’m pes-
simistic, but there are tentative
signs of a turnaround,” he said.

Ip thinks consumers will
have to practice purchasing re-
straint, increase long-terrn sav-
ing and think about “retirement
sustenance.” Through
things, “we have the opportimity
to press forward,” Ip said.

these

FEBRUARY 9,2009

continued from page 1

library to do my work.’ I just think it works for
a lot of people,” she said.
“This week already I’ve been here more times

than I was last term,” added her friend, sophomore I

Catherine Guilbaud.

The renovation of the library’s main ﬂoor
was one of the_,university’s top priorities but had
to compete with other projects for funding. For
years, librarians recognized that the shabby ﬁ1rni-
ture and interior design needed to change. Even-
tually the school committed $2.5 million, allow-
ing architects to draw up plans for a new main
ﬂoor last April.

As work went ahead this fall, students and oth-
er visitors were directed past the temporary ply-
wood walls by the entrance down to the circula-
tion desk, which was moved to the ﬁrst ﬂoor. The
circulation desk and the help desk had to share the
Northen Auditorium, but employees managed to
assist students despite their cramped quarters.

Without the use of the main ﬂoor, tables and
chairs in other buildings such as the commons
were in constant demand. Now, students have an
alternative, whether it’s studying at one of many
tables in the back or socializing in the Bames-and-
Noble-style cafe’ at the front.

Skerrett and Guilbaud are among many stu-
dents who have discovered the comfort and ﬂex-
ibility that the main floor of the library offers.

Junior James Dick said the good lighting, vari-
ety of seating and openness are all reasons he will
be using the library more in the future.

“I used to come to the library to escape from
people because I thought no one goes to the li-
brary because it’s so ugly,” Dick said. “But now
I think that more people will be here and I would
deﬁnitely want to come here more to study.”

Summer Sterling, a junior, said she would be
using the library as an alternative to the com-
mons.

“A couple of my friends, we always hang out in

the commons to study, and now it’s like de facto,
like, we’re all just coming here because  it just
kind of feels like a big living room,” she said.
The library has attracted students and non-stu-
dents alike. On Thursday a local freelance writer
did work on her laptop at a table near the coffee
and vending machines at the front. In the back of
the library, journalism professor Doug Cumming
sat on a bench-style sofa reading a journalism

A magazine.

Cumming, who estimates his ofﬁce in the jour-
nalism school is the closest one toxthe library, said
he would be using the main ﬂoor as an alternative
to the J-school. Cumming eruditely described the
neutral putty tones and simple furniture as “con-
servative modern.”

“It doesn’t look like a designer was calling at-
tention to him or herself,” he said. “I’m pleased
with it. I know the librarians are happy.”

One library staff member, Carol Karsch, said
she is very pleased with the new arrangement.
Karsch, a data and statistical support specialist,
helps students do research on the brand-new Ma-
cintosh computers and Dell Precision PC’s. Her
ofﬁce is one of six glass-fronted ofﬁces on the side
facing the science building.

Karsch, who used to work behind the circula-
tion desk, said there are more students using the
library now than in the past.

While some features leave room for improve-
ment-—some students say the new furniture is a bit
stiff--the reaction to the new main ﬂoor has been
overwhelmingly positive.

“I like how much light there is. I like all the
open space. I like how there are so many different
styles of study areas,” said James Dick. “There’s
the high chairs, there’s the high-backed couches,
there’s table space. There’s also a lot of space for
group work which I think is really good.”

“I feel like no matter what I’m studying or who
I’m studying with I could come to the library and
ﬁnd some space.”

ALL STUDENTS INVITED

Alumni-in-Residence
SCOTT & TRICIA
MILLER

Scott Mi||er‘92 is Staff Psychologist
at Regents’ Center for
Learning Disorders

Tricia Miller '93 is Head Registrar
at the Georgia Museum of Art,
University of Georgia

Thursday, February 12

Have lunch or individual
conversation with either alum.
Reservations required.
Contact Career Services for info.

careers.w|u.edu

540 458 8595

— 1
gang ¢ featemowt
Pizim. CAR {mas & TIN Tor cm

Order from our complete menu
Or Join usfar one ofmzr ALL FIJU C1451’ EA T Brijfers.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffetwith Crab ‘Legs 5pm-iiipm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~iDpm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, St Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar %€Ipm’~2am
Breakfast Bar ? Days a Week Bemvl 1am
Deity Rot Country Bar tiamdiipm
Daily Soup, Saiad, 8. Fruit Bar iiarmﬁpm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours a day, 7 days a week!

Harm: Canker! Meats & Szmtiieriz Haspitizlitjr.’

in ii mm min

1-83 32; I-(vi. Exit $235. 2316 Noah Lee 1-Iwy, I.eXingion, VA

éreqt food & :1 great cuiieetion of
Antique. Pedui ﬂare 8: Tia Toys?

l..o<:ated at

540-463-3478

 

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ‘ 3

 

opinio

I15

G

 
 
 

Former Phi editor wishes online Trident well

Geiger says going online was the smart move for the Phi is rival and hopes it makes it a better paper

By Jacob Geiger
CO LU M NIST

When the Executive Commit-
tee announced last month that
it would not give any money to
the Trident, I’ll admit that I had
mixed feelings.

It seemed odd — and unfair
— to grant InGeneral more than
$600 while the Trident got noth-
ing. And it ‘seemed strange that
EC members would invite the
Trident to apply for funds only to
leave them out in the cold.

But at the same time, it was
tough to see a campus newspa-
per asking for money from the
student government. It seemed
like a step back, an admission of
failure after several years when
neither the Phi nor the Trident
received a penny from the EC or
the administration.

The EC allocation process
obviously does a lot of good in
our community. For evidence,
look no further than what Cam-

On rooﬁes, gentlemen, ladies

In part two of a series on men and women at W&L, Aleisha

By Alelsha Butler
C 0 L U M N I S T

Lets set a scene.‘ Its cold,
dark and wet. The puddle of
light from the streetlamps stops
short of where you ’re standing.
This discussion didn ’t start well,
and now you ’re stuck on the
sidewalk with him. He is scream-
ing so close to your face that
ﬂecks of spit are hitting your
cheeks and your eyelids. When
you try to push past him and
run home he grabs you under
the arms, lifts you ojf your feet,

' shakes you till your head snaps

back and forth on your neck and
tells you you ’re not going any-

where... you ’re not done talking
yet... tears are squeezing them-

selves from your eyes and your
breath is dragging in and out of
your chest because this guy just
wont let you go... you 're alone
and exposed and you ’re not sure,

but it really looks like you might
get hit tonight...

Did that scare you?

pus Kitchens is doing with EC
money.

I just don’t think journalists
should be relying on the student
government for a handout.

The Trident has basically been
running on a break-even basis for
the last six months. They were at
least managing to pay the bills.
But what ﬁnally sunk their hopes
of continuing in print were large
debts left over from last year.

They’ve moved on-line now,
restoring their old Web site and
sending out weekly e-mail up-
dates. But the printed product
appears to be gone for the time
being.

I know the Trident’s staff
must be disappointed that past
debts are keeping them from see-
ing their work on campus news-
stands. And I also understand that
many of them think the mistake
of last year’s Bracket continues
to hamper their operations this
year, even though the two writ-

It should have, because it’s
happened before and it will hap-
pen again. To your friend, your
sister, your daughter, your wife;
violence against women is com-
mon, and will remain so in a
culture that values male domi-
nance and female. submission.
That uneven structure comes at
a cost: girls are taught from birth
to fear.

“Don’t walk alone at night.”
“Go out with a group.” “Don’t
leave a drink unattended.”
“Keep your car key in your
hand.” “Don’t draw attention to
yourself.”

“Don '1‘ ask for it.”

From the time that we are
very young, we are taught to be
careful, be suspicious, be guard-
ed... and it’s infuriating.

Women and men are evenly
matched when it comes to intel-
ligence, character, and “moral
virtue,” if there is such a thing.

However, women aren’t as
physically brawny as men; our
muscles just don’t get as big (al-

Obama, not Simba
Stockton Bullitt would like to remind
everyone Obama is not the messiah

By Stockton Bullitt
C0 LU M N I ST

On November 4, when Scar
and his neo-con hyenas were
expelled from Pride Rock, I of
course celebrated.

That celebration lasted for
about two months. During that
time, I had the fortune of listen-
ing to all the formerly disenfran-
chised. Now that Obama was
elected, racism was over; toler-
ance would be widespread; there
would be enough money for ev-
eryone; etc. Among liberals at
least, the Bolsheviks had beaten
the Mensheviks all over again.

Then January 20 came and we
got to get drunk before noon!

But now it’s February, and I
am starting to grow weary with
some of the gripes that I have
been hearing for the last decade.

I expected these complaints
to come from the traditional hy-
enas. I expected to feast on the

bitterness of Fox News. Howev— '

er, these guys, and Republicans
for the most part, have taken the
whole losing thing pretty well.

Of course they complain that
the stimulus plan is too much
spending, and that we should
instead focus more on tax relief.
But then again, they are Repub-
licans. I wish they would have
spoken up more when we were
dishing out $18.7 billion to John
Thain and Bank of America. I
do not take issue with any Re-
publicans so far during Obama’s
term.

Instead of the far right, the
people that are really starting
to be a problem is the far left.
These are the people that even

MSNBC is frightened to broad-
cast, the people that shame Keith
Olberrnan. These are the people
who made the “Hope” posters,
who were so quick to canvass
and put the bumper stickers on
the back of their Priuses.

They were essential to the
campaign because they were a
candidates’ favorite kind of de-
mographic: people who do not
know what in the hell they are
voting for. ,.

Two weeks ago, I read an
article in this very newspaper
about one writer’s outrage at the
choice of having Rick Warren
preside over the inauguration
ceremony [Editor’s note: see
Jean Chapman’s “Rick Warren
insulting,” in the January 26“‘
2009 edition].

The writer took issue with
Warren’s stance on homosexual-
ity and gay marriage. She also
mentioned that it was blasphe-
mous of Obama to choose some-
one who opposes gay marriage
as his invocator.

There are a couple of issues
with this outlook on Rick War-
ren.

For one, he did not in any
way impose his views upon oth-
ers in the inauguration, "and he
is not the Antichrist for the gay
community.

Gene Robinson, the only ho-
mosexualjbishop in the Episco-
palian church, mentioned in an
interview with the Daily Show
(Since I am not a serious jour-
nalist, I refuse to watch serious
television), that he was ﬁne with
the choice of Rick Warren and
had even had a conversation

ers have graduated.

Even though I spent some
time as the Ring-Tum Phi Editor,
and competed against the Tri-
dent, I want them to survive and
do well. I think this campus will

Let s face it: when
one paper dominates
a market...its easy

for that paper to get
lazy.

be a better, more informed place
to live, work and study if we have
two papers instead of one.

Let’s face it: when one paper
dominates a market ~ whether
it’s a small college campus or a
giant city — it’s easy for that pa-

though we can debate pain toler-
ance all day long).

That physical inequality com-
bines with the patriarchal norms
of our culture to create a con-
stant, inherent threat of harm.
The awareness of that threat is
drilled into females’ heads from
the day that we start wondering
about the differences between
boys and girls. Sadly, even the
nicest guys in our society, those
who would never consider hurt-
ing a woman, are completely
unaware of women’s constant
awareness. A male friend of

What, may I ask, is
acceptable or arous-
ing about dropping
a drug in a girls

drink?

with him during the inauguration
that did not involve the issue of
homosexuality in anyway.

Secondly, Rick Warren is a
seriously good preacher. His
supposedly “suspect” book “A
Purpose Driven Life” has sold
over 30 million copies, so may-
be it has one or two things going
for it.

The last two reasons are what,
more or less, is wrong with the
far left right now.

Refusing Rick Warren, who
is arguably one of the most im-
portant religious ﬁgures in the
United States right now, to do
the invocation based solely on a
view that is not pertinent to the
situation at hand is ridiculous.

Obviously, Rick probably
should not do the invocation for
the Gay Rights Parade, but this
is an inauguration ceremony.

I am thankful that pro-lifers
give me the time of day to talk,
even though to them, I am for
killing babies. Having differing
views on controversial issues
does not exclude someone from a
conversation. Obama constantly
talks about how he wants people
around him who disagree with
his views. In fact, Obama’s en-
tire campaign was about coming
together for a common cause.

It is unfair to say “Yes, we
can, but no, they can’t.”

Rick Warren represented
the important evangelical de-
mographic, who will need to
somehow accept the atheists if
they want something done. But
conversely, the atheists need the
evangelicals to be on board if
they want to make progress.

_ That is an idea that some of
us liberals need to accept: the
Republicans have just as much to
bring to the table as Democrats,
and progress is only made when
both sides can come to some
sort of coalition. And if you
don’t agree with me, just read

per to get lazy. The Trident was
founded for that very reason; in
the mid-1990s, the Phi had got-
ten lazy and was no longer serv-
ing its readers as well as it should
have.

But the Trident needs to suc-
ceed on its own, in the free mar-
ket. It shouldn’t rely on the Ex-
ecutive Committee for support.

When it’s all said and done, I
think it’s better for them to op-
erate as a web-only outﬁtand be
free of EC money than to keep
putting out a print edition on the
student government’s dime.

Journalists must serve as
watchdogs over those in power,
making sure their actions are eth-
ical, appropriate and correct. Our
publications also serve as a com-
munity forum open to all voices.
Even if those voices can include
the administration or student
government, how can a paper ef-
fectively watch over those insti-
tutions when they receive money

from them? It’s tough.

Even if there is no overt at-
tempt at censorship or pun-
ishment for what’s published,
wouldn’t a paper that takes
money from the school naturally
be more reluctant to criticize the
people who fund their opera-
tions?

One of the Phi’s biggest rea-
sons for striking out on our own
was an attempt by the EC to cut
our funding after we ran stories
about EC misuse of money. That
happened more than a decade
ago, and the Phi is now in its sixth

year of ﬁnancial independence. ‘

It’s given us the conﬁdence to
report things that we may have
hesitated about in past years.

I don’t think it’s a coincidence
that our work has improved since
we started paying our own way.
We know that unless we produce
quality work .that engages and
informs our readers, our adver-
tisements and subscriptions will

dry up.

Making the ﬁnances work
isn’t easy. Our business staff
spends countless hours talking
with advertisers, e-mailing sub-
scribers and — each week — stuff-
ing envelopes sothe papers can
be mailed out.

, I hope the Trident can follow
this path on the web. By cutting
out inost of their ﬁxed costs, I’m
hopeful they can focus their time
and energy on producing good
reporting and strong writing.

The Trident has some excel-
lent editors; I think they’re up to
the challenge of keeping the pa-
per going.

A strong Trident will encour-
age the Phi to work harder as
well. Competition breeds excel-
lence.

I’m just glad I’ll be reading

a Trident this term that isn’t be-'

holden to the EC.

and why they shouldn’t mix

Butler questions the culture of fear W&L is women live in

mine once told me that I have “a
way too active imagination.”

Here at Washington and Lee
we claim to have a tradition of
honor and respect and, for the
most part, we feel like our party
scene is safer than that of a big-
ger school’s.

However, the 2008 National
College Health Assessment de-
termined that while 6% of W&L
men reported being sexually
touched against their will, 20.6%
of W&L women reported the
same. That number is double
the national college average;
Washington and Lee’s statistics
for rape and attempted rape are
also almost double the national
numbers.

Following some depressing
statistics like those, I have to
wonder: does a gentleman cause
someone else to fear?

What, may I ask, is accept-
able or arousing about dropping
a drug in a girl’s drink? Is it hot
and sexy to take a limp, uncon-
senting vegetable home with

Obama’s keynote address at the
2004 Democratic Convention
because, apparently, he does.

The ﬁnal issue I have a prob-
lem with comes from the idea
that this action was somehow
against Obama’s earlier preach-
ing.

During the primary cam-
paigns, Obama was maligned
for being the most socially con-
servative Democratic candidate
among the ﬁnal three in regard
to homosexuality. While he sup-
ports civil unions, he has never
been for gay marriage.

So by choosing Rick War-
ren and not immediately sign-
ing an act demanding universal
gay marriage, Obama is actually
staying in line with what he said
he would do all along.

This is probably the biggest
problem we liberals have with
Mr. Obama: we spent so much
time placing him somewhere
in-between Simba and Jesus
over the last couple of months,
we forgot that he is just a regu-
lar politician who happens to be
pretty good at his job.

Look, Obama will not man-
date universal healthcare. Why?
Because he never said he would.
Neither will he legalize mari-
juana.

Or completely pull out of the
Middle East.

Or even ﬁx racism.

Politically, he is pretty mid-
dle of the road. If you wanted
a bona ﬁde liberal, you should
have voted for Hillary.

The thing that made Obama
so awesome was not that he was
an African-American or even a
liberal; it is that he is a good pol-
itician, who is willing to listen.

Maybe some of us liberals
should follow our pariah a little
more and start to listen to some-
one who is not exactly like us.

Then, maybe we can hope for
some real progress.

x

i you?

90% of assaults are commit-
ted by someone known to the
victim; I can only assume that on
a campus as small as ours, where
everybody knows almost every-
body, that that kind of violation
can only occur when a woman
becomes an object, and sexual
pleasure becomes a goal, an end-
point, a score to be achieved.

I know that there have been .

a few nights that I’ve only had
a drink or two and ended up
spending the entire night on
the bathroom ﬂoor. What was I
drinking?

The same can be said for most
of my friends, and the only rea-
son that my closest friends and
I have managed to avoid some
very bad situations is because
we vigilantly watch out for each
other. “No woman left behind”
is our policy, and at the end of a
night, even if one of our group
isn’t quite ready to leave, we
take her with us.

W&L parties are small and

exclusive. Rarely are outsiders or
non-students allowed in. There-
fore, I can only conclude that the
suspicious drinks my friends and
I have had were mixed by fellow
Washington and Lee students.

What gives someone the right
to incapacitate another person
and take whatever they want?
Why is it necessary for girls to
travel in packs, constantly vigi-
lant, always aware? At W&L we
claim to maintain the traditions
of honorable conduct, but we
seem to be lacking severely as
soon as the sun goes down.

We should consider making
mutual respect and compassion
prerequisites for “honor.” After
all, that girl who’s passing out on
your bed right now with her skirt
around her waist has a mom, a
dad, a gray-haired old dog who’s
been around since she was ﬁve.

She’s got major, goals in life,
and by slipping a muscle relax-
ant into her drink you just took
away her ability to say “yes” or

44 39

I10

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UMVERSITY ................................................................ ..

 RING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT

SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.

LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RlNG—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

LEE CAMPUS.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANOE

CRIGHTON ALLEN
STOCKTON BULLITT
ALEISHA BUTLER
JACOB GEIGER
DIANDRA SPICAK
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
ANNE VVESOULIS
RUSS WEEMS
KIMBER WIGGS

LARA JORDAN
RYAN ELSEY
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

THE MEDIA BOARD

 

 

4 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

FEBRUARY 9, 2009

arts&|ife

 

Poignant play  
shows that magic
can happen

‘Vaclav Drda ’ by alum Christopher
Cartmill examines value of art

By Kimber Wlggs
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The Washington and Lee theater department welcomed back
alumnus Christopher Cartmill for the annual Floumoy Playwright
Festival this weekend. As part of the Festival, Cartmill directed his
The Apotheosis of Vaclav Drda. The show ran Thursday through
Sunday in the Johnson Theater in the Lenfest Center.

The Apotheosis of Vaclav Drda tells the story of a rag-tag group
of theater people ~ none of whom are getting paid — trying to pro-
duce a play with limited funding and even less hope of success.
That play is a powerful commentary on war and oppression in
1938 by the ﬁctional Czech author Vaclav Drda.

Early on, there is obvious tension between the actors in this
play within the play. Gabriel, played by junior Kevin Mannering,
is a self-involved egomaniac who continually boasts about the fact
that he has an agent and a manager. Lisa Reppell’s character, Jo-
anna, is the passionate female lead who fears this production may
be her last chance to “make it” as an actress.

Trying to maintain peace between these two ﬁery personalities
is Nick the director, portrayed by sophomore Johnny Coyle. Nick
means well, but his attempts at pep talks generally deteriorate into
clichés and unﬁnished thoughts. To provide comic relief are the
wise-cracking stage manager Cecily, played by Marquita Robin-
son, and Steve, a happy-go-lucky, sweet-hearted simpleton, ador-
ably portrayed by sophomore Dave Curran.

The ﬁrst half of the show revolves around the conﬂicts between

“In a way, theater is more real than...what

we do day—to—day. ”

Marqulta Roblnson, actress

characters who just do not understand one another, as Cartmill
later put it. They butt heads on almost everything, from the terrible
translation of the Czech script to Nick’s casting to Steve’s amateur
ideas about theater (he calls it “play practice”). Everything seems
to go wrong for this bunch, and the tension builds up until Joanna
breaks down.

After a long break in the rehearsal, and after one of Gabriel
and Joanna’s many arguments, the two leads seem to ﬁnd a real
connection to the work and to each other through a particularly
poignant scene, beautifully acted by Mannering and Reppell. Sud-
denly Joanna asks to stop, inexplicably withdraws into a comer,
and asks everyone to leave. Gabriel explodes at her for stopping
the rehearsal yet again and then storms out. It is a testament to the
actors’ abilities that there was a sense among the audience of just
having witnessed a very awkward public confrontation.

Eventually Joanna is left alone to weep for her dubious future
in the theater. Her grief lasts only a short while, however, as she is
interrupted by a mysterious custodian, played by Brian Devine.

The peculiarly insightﬁil stranger helps Joanna to realize that
“recognition” is not a true test of greatness, and he restores Joan-
na’s faith in theater and in her own hopes of success. '

With the help of this Czech janitor (who just so happens to be
named Vaclav), the rest of the cast and crew also discover the true
meaning of their work and ultimately achieve a theatrical mind-
meld that reveals the ﬁnal image of the play: Jenna Worsham as
an angel who is holding a clock and “is saying to me, ‘get on
with your work, do what you have to do while you have time to
do it.”’ I

Following the performance, Cartmill and the cast engaged in
a talk-back session with the audience. They ﬁelded questions that
ranged from where Brian Devine got his Czech accent to the, ad-
mittedly baﬂiing ﬁnal image of the angel.

Cartmill’s response to the latter query was that the pantomime
angel represented the characters’ renewed faith in the meaning of
the play and their belief that magic can happen.

Theatrically, the image was made even more interesting by the
fact that the “roof” of the acting space was mechanically raised
to reveal Worsham’s angel. That ﬁnal image met varied reactions
from the audience, but Cartmill made a good point that it is for
each member of the audience to decide what that image meant.

On the whole, Christopher Cartmill’s The Apotheosis of Vaclav
Drda was a deeply thought-provoking exploration of the mean-
ing of theater in today’s society. Lisa Reppell commented that,
in many ways, theater has become a consumer industry, which is
unfortunate. But hopefully, talented actors performing a profound
work, such as these W&L students did Friday night, can still give
audiences a meaningful experience.

When asked why she acts, Marquita Robinson spoke of the
emotions she must explore when she steps out on the stage. She
said that “in a way, theater is more real than, sometimes, what we
do day-to-day.” So no matter what audiences think, these seven
students choose to perform because it is still a meaningful experi-
ence for them.

Art exhibit is edgy

Photographer is art includes display on Ku Klux Klan

By Dlandra Splcak
STAFF WRITER

The Staniar Gallery will
open its doors to an exhibition
of William Christenberry’s work
called “William Christenberry:
Site/Possession” on Monday.

Christenberry, a renowned
photographer, is most noted
for his photos of his childhood
home of rural Alabama, but this
exhibit focuses on much more.
The exhibit will feature paint-
ings, photographs, construc-
tions, “dream buildings” and the
“Klan Room Tableau.”

The exhibit offers a glimpse
into the artistic process of
Christenberry, including one of
his earlier drawings from 1959,
when he had just begun to hone
his skills, and also a more re-

cent drawing from 2006, which .

employs the techniques he has
gleaned from his years of work.

The drawings feature a range
of subjects, from Southern gourd
trees to tenant houses to dream
buildings, and each drawing
shows the scope of Christenber-
ry’s 40-year career.

On the more controversial

side, the exhibit also houses the
“Klan Room Tableau,” a mixed-
media display which includes
dolls costumed in Ku Klux Klan
regalia, miniature efﬁgies, pho-
tographs, drawings and signs
that all evoke the KKK’s ritu-
als. '

Christenberry began to as-
semble the Klan Room in 1962
as “a public exorcism of the
demons that have haunted him
ever since he attempted to enter
a Klan meeting more than 40
years ago.”

According to those who
help host the exhibit, while the
exhibit is, no doubt, “in your
face,” the material is meant to
challenge the viewers, causing
them to draw their own conclu-
sions.

“What the Staniar Gallery
does is to try to make Washing-
ton and Lee talk,” publicity and
marketing intern for the Staniar
Gallery, senior Mallory Ruy-
mann, said.

“This exhibit is really edgy,
seeing as it deals with the KKK.
Different people will react dif-
ferently to the material, and see-

.RedHenLex.com

ing as W&L is rather ‘southern,’
parts of the exhibit may be hard
to stomach.”

Though critics have ques-
tioned Christenberry’s creation
of the Klan Room, Christenber-
ry, in his defense, has said the
work is a way for him to come
to terms with the Klan.

During a 1996 interview,
Christenberry was cited as say-
ing, “The Klan is a manifesta-
tion of evil, and‘it’s hurtful to
me as a Southerner, as someone
who in most instances is proud
ofwhere he comes from, to be
identiﬁed with something so
terrible.”

The exhibition is curated by
Dr. Andrea Douglas of the Uni-
versity of Virginia Art Museum.
She will present a lecture on the
exhibition on Monday, Feb. 9,
at 6 p.m. in the Staniar Gallery.

Christenberry will also‘ visit
W&L to give a lecture about
his work on March 11 at 6 p.m.
Both lectures will be in the Con-
cert Hall in Wilson Hall and are
free and open to the public. A
reception will follow each pro-

gram.

Christenberry majored in art
at the University of Alabama
and has taught at the Corcoran
School of Art since 1968. His
art is owned and featured by
many museums, including the
Whitney Museum of American
Art, Museum of Modern Art,
National Museum of American
Art, Smithsonian Institution
and San Francisco Museum of
Modern Art. He is represented
by Hemphill Fine Arts of Wash-
ington.

While the nature of the
Christenberry exhibit in the Sta-
niar Gallery is controversial, the
main point of the exhibit is to
showcase talent and to get the
W&L student population more
involved with the artistic pro-
cess and with art in general, said
Ruymann.

“Art should get you think-
ing, and that’s what this exhibit
does,” she said.

“Hopefully, people will
come to appreciate the works in
the gallery, and understand that
it is more than just a edgy topic
— it’s art.” ‘

Profiles

Leadership:

] uli e Petersen

 

Volunteer at the Manor of Natural Bridge;

Chamber Singers; ODK; Senior Voice
1n Recital with Matt Amling; a role in the
upcoming Bentley Musical, The Secret

Garden; RUF worship music leader
and member of Chi Omega

What energizes you about taking on
the responsibilities of campus leader-
ship? “To live in excess while others live without
does not fit with my personal commitment to love
my neighbor as myself. I think the ability to bring
people together across racial, political, and socio-
economic divides is one of the most inspiring ex-

This Valentineis Dag
treat Ljourselves
to the Most Romantic

dinner in Lexington

at the Red Hen

\
A la carte menu, or a

special seven~course tasting menu

Two seatingsz 6_and 8:50 C

Call 464.4401 now for a reservationl
ll E Washington Street '

 

pericnces I have found. People often get so caught
up in being right, that they fail to see how much common ground we
all share. I have been drawn to the Shepherd Poverty Program and the
music and theater departments specifically for their tendency to attract
people from all walks of life and unite them behind a common goal.”
What has been one of the most rewarding aspects

of leadership at W&L? “Organizing and leading a book study of
]im Wallis’ The Great Awakening last Spring gave me the opportunity to
bring together a group of surprising diversity in age, race, academic ‘
focus and socioeconomic background to discuss how religious faith can
be utilized to unite people behind a just cause, rather than as a divisive
partisan tool. We tackled issues that often prevent deeply partisan
politics from effectively addressing the needs of our society's most
vulnerable members. Facilitating group members of different races and
political persuasions as they found common ground on previously in-
compatible issues was one of my most exciting and humbling experi-
ences at W&L.”

Any words of advice for those who follow? “Find what

you are passionate about and go all out. It takes a lot of work to max"
out life!” V

Tuesdays with Leadership:

Conflict Resolution Part II
12:15 and 6:30 PM, Room 214 Elrocl Commons
Utilizing role plays, experience the challenges of resolving

conflicts using the theories presented last week. ..

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

 

sports

A A tainted reputation

Crighton Allen discusses A—Rod is alleged steroid use

By Crlghton Allen
COLU M msr

According to a report by Sports Illustrated,
the national pastime of baseball has received yet
another horrible soar to its already beaten image.
According to the report, Alex Rodriguez tested
positive for anabolic steroids in 2003, when he
was with the Texas Rangers and won the AL home
run title and MVP award. Rodriguez, the 275 mil-
lion dollar man, the face of not only his club, the
New York Yankees, but of arguably all of baseball
allegedly tested positive for testosterone and Pri-
mobolan, an anabolic steroid.

Since his teenage years, Rodriguez has been
hailed as the man that might one day rewrite all
the record books. Blessed with tremendous size,
talent and an incredible drive, he had all the tools
needed to one day go down as the greatest base-
ball player ever. Alas, he, like so many others,
has apparently fallen victim to the allusion that he
needed an artiﬁcial boost in an effort to stay atop
of his profession.

As much as I don’t want to believe this report,
Sports Illustrated bears the most respected name in
all of sports journalism. This isn’t some random
fan rambling on his blog; SI possesses the ﬁnest
reputation in the ﬁeld and would not run the report
and risk its reputation were they not very certain
of its validity.

What a sad, sad day for anyone who calls him-
self a baseball fan! In 2006, when Barry Bonds
broke Henry Aaron’s all-time homerun record
amid cloud of steroid allegations, many took com-
fort in the fact that in all likelihood, Bonds was
only renting the space atop sport’s most hallowed
record. Most everyone assumed that one day,
the Golden Boy, Rodriguez, would one day pass
Bonds and restore the integrity of the record.

Right now, A—Rod stands at 553 homers, need-
ing only 211 more to pass Bonds. At only 33,
Rodriguez has at least another ten years of good
ball left in him, and if he hits, conservatively for
his standards, 25 dingers each year, should com-
fortably pass Bonds. If indeed that happens, I am

left wondering: so what? Will the record mean
anything?

Can it mean anything when so many of base-
ball’s great sluggers of the past 15 years, Sammy
Sosa, Mark McGuire, Rafeal Palmero, and, of

course, Bonds, have all been convincingly linked ,

to steroid scandals? Even pitchers like the great
Roger Clemens have been on the juice as well.

Baseball has always been a reﬂection of the
American mentality. In the days when the Ameri-
can spirit was characterized by gritty determina-
tion, hard work and humility, the great ball play-
ers of the day, think Ted Williams for example,
manifested these traits heroically. Yet, as America
has morphed into a nation obsessed with its im-
age and determined to achieve the desired ends at
cost, baseball players have unfortunately demon-
strated that shift, too. Now, drama queens that tear
apart locker rooms and play for salaries that would
make a big—oil CEO blush have come to dominate
the game. \

Maybe I was naive, but I really thought Rodri-
guez was different. In him I saw a humble hard-
working guy that played the game the right way, a
man that through his honest actions could restore
the game back to its once proud origins. It ap-
pears that I, and the nation, have been duped once
again by someone we thought we knew so well.
It seems the only thing stronger and more fervent
than our hope in the ideal is the harshness of the
reality. A-Rod looked around. him and saw his
great contemporaries cheating and saw no other
recourse but than to join them if he wanted to con-
tinue to compete at his usual high level.

I can only hope that I and Sports Illustrated are
wrong. 1 want A-Rod to be clean, the game of
baseball needs A-Rod to be clean, but it appears
that neither I nor the game can continue to live
under that assumption. It pains me to see baseball
endure yet another scandal, but it looks like we are
in for a long off-season of continued accusation as

speculation about the fundamental integrity of the

game. And I could not be the sorrier.

Swimming conferences

continued from page 6

pared this year’s team to the 2007-2008 squad.
“This year’s team has much more depth in the
strokes. While we miss Alex and Tim, the desire
of each team member this year to race is stron-
ger,” he said.

Shinoﬁeld and his team hope that they can
match and even improve‘ on last year’s success. In
November, the head coach said, “The guys have

- set their goals very high. They want to re-capture

the conference championship and ﬁnish in the top
ten at NCAAS for the third straight year.”

In order to ensure that his team is rested for
conferences, Shinoﬁeld has decreased the difﬁ-
culty of his practices since the Hopkins meet. He
said, “Really for most people it’s just a ﬁne-tun-
ing period. We deﬁnitely back off on the volume
quite a bit. Most of the guys are at about 40 per-
cent of their max volume during the season. And
then the intensity level is down signiﬁcantly as
well. Really most of its just about making sure
the technique is perfected and that they are pre-
pared to go fast.”

The Bluegrass Mountain Conference has 17

I men’s swimming teams in both Division II and

III. Three teams in the conference are in the top
16 of Division 11 teams in the nation, according to
collegeswimming.com.

Shinoﬁeld recognizes the stiff competition that
his team will be up against this weekend. “We
could have a great meet and still ﬁnish fourth in
our conference,” he admitted.

The team’s head coach said his team is anx-
ious for the start of the meet. “I think they are
prepared, but 1 think that if you care about some-
thing, you’re going to be nervous. So I think they
have that nervous energy about them, but I deﬁ-
nitely believe they can do it.”

The team leaves for Charlotte on Wednesday
afternoon.

On the other hand, the women’s team is 9-6
overall and 2-0 in the ODAC. Although they
have had fewer meets against conference teams,
the Lady Generals currently sit at the top of the
ODAC standings.

Head coach Kami Gardner said, “We’ve had
an outstanding season. The freshmen have really
contributed; put that together with our great lead-
ership, and we’ve had a very good year.”

At the beginning of the season,‘ Gardner said,

“As a whole, I want the women to develop into a
great team that is supportive of each other’s goals
and obviously to succeed at the ODAC and na-
tional level.” I

Gardner thinks that the team has indeed ac-
complished the ﬁrst part of that goal. She said,
“[The team] has been very "supportive of each
other and knows what everyone is doing in the
water. They are very invested in the program this
year.”

In 2007-2008, the team went 13-6 including
a 7-0 conference record. In addition, the women
ﬁnished ﬁrst at the ODAC Championships last
year.

W&L is looking to repeat as conference cham-
pions this year, but Randolph-Macon will likely
provide some pretty tough competition. The Yel-
low Jackets are currently ranked second in the
conference with an overall record of 11-3 and a
6-1 ODAC record. Its sole conference loss was
to W&L on Nov. 7 (156-102).

While Gardner recognized that Randolph-Ma-
con is probably the biggest threat" to prevent W&L
from being back-to—back ODAC champions, she
also hopes her team doesn’t focus on their com-
petition. “I think [ours swimmers] are very conﬁ-
dent in that they are going to swim fast. We can’t
control Randolph-Macon. We are looking to fo-
cus on what we can control,” she said.

Just like the men, the women over the past

' week have been tapering for conferences this

weekend. . Gardner said, “Since [the Hopkins
meet], we are really looking to develop speed and
give them rest. I think that we are very healthy,
mentally and physically.”

Senior captain Jule Miata thinks that her
c0ach’s program has worked in preparing the
team for conferences. She said, “I deﬁnitely feel
the changes in my body with the lower yardage
and extra rest time that we have in practices.”

Feeling rested, Miata is conﬁdent for the con-
ference championships. “We have what it takes
to win another ODAC title,” she proclaimed.

W&L women’s swimming team leaves for
Radford Thursday afternoon.

 

C2C College To Career Fair

WHEN: Wednesday, February 25
10:00 am-4:00 pm

WHERE: Greater Richmond Convention Center

Richmond, Virginia

WHO: All W&L students

WHAT:An opportunity to talk with employers about internships and full-
time, post-graduate options
www.col|egetocareerfair.com

WHY: Why not? Explore all of your options!  

Visit the C2C web site to register, and contact Career Services if you are
interested in transportation. ,
There will be space with internet access reserved for your use throughout
the clay.

 

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2009

  

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

ports

 

tdeck

 

MoN Tues WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
at vs vs
M°"'3 Randolph. Lynchburg: BC
Basketball Macon »
7 p.m. 2 p.m.
7 p.m.
at at
womenvs Emory & Randolph-
Ba5kCtba" Henfy Macon
7 p.m. 4 p.m.
Men's 3‘
swlmmlllﬁ Bluegrass Mountain championships
Women's at
lswlmmlngi ODAC Championships
at _
Mews Lafayette/
Track Rider
4 p.m.
at
womows Lafayette/
Track Rider
4 p.m.
VS
_, at
pp: lye
wresﬂlng school McDaniel
’ 7 Mm 11 a.m.
at
Riding 39
lnvlte
at
Mews Emory &
Tennis Henry
1 p.m.
vs
w°“‘°“’5 Radford
Tennis
4 p.m.

 

The number of points scored by Lebron James in the Cavaliers’
107-102 win over the New York Knicks at Madison Square Garden

Wednesday. He also tallied 11 assists and ‘was originally credited with

10 rebounds. The NBA later decided his last rebound was mistakingly

A credited to him, causing James to lose what would have been the first

50-point triple-double since 1975.

$500,000

Center ﬁelder Andruw Jones‘ 2009 salary after he agreed to a mi-
nor league contract with the Texas Rangers organization. He made

$14,726,910 last year but hitjust .158.

box

“It’s not my decision. It’s theirs. I have nothing
to say, but if that’s they want to do, that’s their
choice. It’s something that USA Swimming came

 

up with. It’s fair. Obviously, for a mistake you

should get punished.”

Fourteen-time Olympic gold medalist Michael Phelps after USA
Swimming suspended him for three months. A photograph of Phelps
inhaling from a marijuana pipe was released last weekend. Courtesy
of espn.com.

“She said make sure that doesn't hurt me on
Valentine’s Day.”

Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers expresses his wife’s hope that his
recent ﬂne won't affect her Valentine's Day gift. The NBA fined Rivers
$15,000 for verbaling abuslngthe referees In the Boston Celtics’
110-109 overtime loss to the Los Angeies Lakers Thursday. Courtesy
of cbssports.com.

‘‘You’ll have to talk to the union. I'm not saying
anything.”

New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez after Sports
Illustrated released a report Saturday that he had tested positive for
two anabolic steroids In 2003, the year he was named the American
League MVP. Courtesy of mIb.com.

“I love the fact that Urban had to cheat and still
didn't get him.”

Tennessee head coach Lane Klfﬂn accusing Florida head coach Urban
Meyer of a recruiting violation at a signing day breakfast celebration
Thursday. Kiffin said that Meyer called recruit Nu’Keese Richardson
during his visit to Tennessee’s campus. Richardson signed his letter
of intent Wednesday to Tennessee. The SEC later said that Meyer's
calling Richardson did not violate any SEC regulations. Courtesy of
espn.com. '

W&L goes 1-1 on weekend 1

Women is basketball falls to Lynchburg, beats Randolph

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

TOP: Sophomore center Felice Herman attempts a shot over
Randolph's Michelle Brockman in the Generals’ 55-46 vic-
tory Saturday. W&L also played Lynchburg Friday night but
lost that game, 70-73.

BOTTOM: First-year guard Meghan Ingram goes for two of
her 16 points Saturday afternoon. Ingram leads the Gener-
als this year with 15.0 points per game.

By Russ Weems
STAFF WRITER

This weekend, the Washington and Lee wom-
en’s basketball team took on two ODAC oppo-
nents, Lynchburg and Randolph, losing one and
winning the other.

Lynchburg came into its contest with W&L at
'7-12 overall with a 5-9 ODAC record. Randolph
was 3-15 and 2-13 in the ODAC before they faced
the Generals. W&L came into the weekend 10-8
with a 9-4 ODAC record.

The team opened up the weekend Friday at
Lynchburg. The Generals came out strong, con-
trolling most of the ﬁrst half. The Generals’ lead
got up to seven points at one point. However, the
Hornets rallied at the end of the half with a 6-2 run
to tie the game at 40 going into half.

Lynchburg carried their momentum into the
second half as they scored the ﬁrst 13 points of
the half. This run was carried on by a shooting
slump from the Generals. W&L missed its ﬁrst 14
shots of the half. This streak was ﬁnally broken
by a Bethany Ridenhour lay-up with 11:31 to play
that brought the score to 53-42. '

The Generals began to chip down the lead
from this point. Ten minutes later, with 1:37 left,
the Generals regained the lead at 69-68 on a free
throw by ﬁrst-year guard Meghan Ingram. The
Hornets went ahead once again with 1:12 left as
junior forward Tamara Snead sank two key free
throws. Clutch free-throw shooting by Lynchburg
sealed the game leaving the ﬁnal score at 73-70
for the Hornets. The loss snapped a ﬁve-game
winning streak for the Generals.

W&L was led by Ingram’s 20 points. First-
year forward Rebecca Bolton added 17 points and
a career-high 12 boards. Ridenhour contributed
15 points.

Saturday, the Generals took on the Randolph
WildCats. Randolph got out to an early six-point
lead over the Generals, but W&L quickly recov-
ered to tie the game at 16. Randolph ﬁnished the
half on a 10-6 run that left the Generals with a
22-26 halftime deﬁcit. -

The Generals started the second half strong,
scoring nine of the ﬁrst 11 points. This run was
capped off by an Ingram three-pointer with 16:15
left that gave W&L its ﬁrst lead of the game at 31-
28. Over the next six minutes, the game was back
and forth with four lead changes. With 10 minutes
left, the Generals started to pull away. They out-
scored the WildCats 18-10 in the last 10:51 to the
earn the win. Lockdown defense for the Generals
created this run. ‘Randolph only made four shots
in the ﬁnal 13:51 of the contest. The ﬁnal score
was 55-46 for the Generals. The victory gave
"W&L six wins in their last seven games and a 10-
5 ODAC record.

The Generals were against paced by Ingram
with 16 points, ﬁve rebounds and four steals.
Ridenhour matched Ingram’s 16 points and also
had seven rebounds. Senior forward Kara Nadeau
had a well-rounded game with six points, seven
rebounds, four steals and three assists.

W&L’s defense was a big part of the win. The
Generals scored 24 of their 55 points off of 30
Randolph turnovers. The Generals also held the
WildCats to 40.0 percent shooting including 30.0
percent from beyond the arc.

The team returns to action on Tuesday as it
travels to Emory & Hemy for a 7:00 pm. con-
test.

 

Generals await championships

Men is and women is swimming teams prepare for conferences

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

Both the Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams will
compete in their respective conference
meets later this week. The men are set
to race in Charlotte, N.C., for the Blue-
grass Mountain Championships this
Wednesday through Saturday while the
Lady Generals will swim in the ODAC
Championships this Friday, Saturday and
Sunday in Radford, Va.

Both teams’ last meet was on Satur-
day, Jan. 31 at Johns Hopkins. The men
lost 119-143, and the women also fell to
the Blue Jays, 97-156.

Since then, they have been conserving
their energy in preparation for what will
be, for most swimmers, their last meet of
the year. Those top few that qualify for
nationals will swim at the NCAA Cham-
pionships March 18-21 at the University
of Minnesota.

On the men’s side, the Generals sit
at 9-2 on the year with their only losses
coming to Wingate and Johns Hopkins.
According to collegeswimming.com’s
national rankings, Hopkins is the ﬁfth

best men’s team in Division III while
Wingate is ranked 14th in Division II.
The website put W&L at 13th on its Di-
vision III rankings.

Head coach Joel Shinoﬁeld, who is in
his sixth season at W&L, seemed to be
pleased with his team’s performance in
the regular season. “I think [the season’s]
gone really well considering the number

history. Sweet ﬁnished ﬁrst in the 50 free
at nationals, broke the Division-III record
for that event, and swam in the Olympic
Qualiﬁers this summer. McGlaston was
also a ﬁrst-team All-American and ﬁn-
ished seventh in the 50 free.

Last year, the Generals went 9-2, ﬁn-
ished second at conferences and eighth at
nationals. The only team to ﬁnish ahead

“I think they are prepared, but I think that if you care

about something, you ’re going to be nervous. So I think

[our swimmers] have that nervous energy about them,
but I deﬁnitely believe they can do it. ”

Joel Shinofieid, head coach

we graduated last year and having to rely
on a number of freshmen this year.”

The W&L men’s swimming program
lost eight swimmers to graduation last
year. Alex Sweet and Tim McGlaston,
both members of the Class of 2008, were
two of the better swimmers in the team’s

of them at the 2008 Bluegrass Moun-
tain Championships was Wingate, who
earned 821 points as compared to W&L’s
638.

Senior captain Chris Diebold com-

A See “Swimming conferences" on page 5

 

