   

‘D

 

 

 

 

Columnists Cody

Sarah Palin: ,
tent? i or a campaign ’s fatal flaw?

Beauchamp and Abel Delgado debate
McCain’s bold choice

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII,

Identity crisis

W&L aims to revamp graphic
ID, student facebook group
says, “If it ain ’t broke, don ’t'
ﬁx it! ”

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

‘The unveiling of Washington and Lee’s pro-
posed redesign of the “graphic identity” in July
has created quite the uproar among students.

The university hired North Charles Street De-
sign Organization (NCSDO) of Baltimore, charg-
ing the ﬁrm with “an assessment of the various
graphic elements used to represent W&L and sug-
gestions for improvements, with the goal of creat-
ing a strong, cohesive identity system to serve all
units,” according to the website.

Dennis Cross, Vice President for University
Advancement, explained in an e-mail to the univer-
sity community that W&L will not be eliminating
its current symbols, namely the Crest, the Trident
and the Seal. The university and NCSDO aimed to

“Its not even the way [the de-
sign] looks. Its the lack of stu-
dent input... It seems to me to be
a bit of a wasted resource. We

could do this internally. ”

JONATHAN WRIGHT, 3rd year law student
 

review and redesign the “wordmark/logo,” which
is used for stationery, business cards, the website,
and similar publications.

The current wordmark/logo was designed in
2006 and features “Washington and Lee Univer-
sity” with an image of the Colonnade. The last
review of the identity before 2006 occurred in
1987. I

“We want to return to the goals of the success-
ful 1987 review, because we have strayed from
them,” Cross said in his e-mail.

“The current situation--more than 30 different
logos in use-—is unacceptable, not to mention con-
fusing,” he added. “The vast majority agree that
we need to discard the current identity, which was
created in 2006 with neither an inclusive process
nor wide support.”

NCSDO’s proposed wordmark/logo features a
blue circle or coin shape around the letters “W&L.”
According to the website, the ﬁrm examined the
university’s archives and “found many University
identiﬁers placed within circles or on coins.” The
ﬁrm also “thought it would be an advantage to
give ‘W&L,’ our widely known nickname, a for-
mal presence.”

After the results of NCSDO’slreview and re- _

design were made public, students responded im-
mediately. The majority of reactions were not of
approval.

Law student Jonathan Wright, creator of the
Facebook group bemoaning W&L’s proposed
graphic identity and boasting over 400 members,
pointed to what he sees as faulty decision-making
on the part of the university.

“It’s not even the way it looks,” he said. “It’s
the lack of student input.”

Through the honor system and other forms
of student self-govemance, students at W&L are
treated as adults who can make their own deci-
sions and shape the image of the university. Thus
Wright asks why students were not involved in de-
veloping the new graphic identity.

Wright further objected to the fact that W&L
chose to “outsource” the project to a design ﬁrm.
“It seems to me to be a bit of a wasted resource,”
he said. “We could do this internally.” _

As Wright and the members of his Facebook
group suggest, an overwhelming number of stu-
dents have been willing to share their thoughts on
the future of W&L’s logos. Many believe that the
blue circle is too similar to images used by other
universities and even corporations, and thus they
would prefer something that is more unique.

See Graphic Identity on page 2

  
 
   
    

By Brett Holton
STAFF WRITER

Is 21 still a viable minimum
drinking age? That’s what the Am-
ethyst Initiative hopes to ﬁnd out.

The initiative, launched this July,
aims to “rethink the drinking age."
W&L President, Kenneth Ruscio,
joined 128 other university presi-
dents around the country in support-
ing the initiative, which calls for
open, dispassionate debate about the

United States’ minimum drinking
age of 2 1.

“Like the other presidents who
have signed the Amethyst Initia-
tive, I believe that the signiﬁcant
problems created by some college
students’ abuse of alcohol demand
thoughtful consideration of whether
or not public policy in this area has
worked, and what alternatives we
might consider," Ruscio said in a let-
ter to the W&L community.

The initiative began this July af-

ter John McCardell, W&L class of
’71 and now President Emeritus of
Middlebury College, was invited to
speak at a meeting of the Annapolis
Group, comprising roughly 120 lib-
eral arts colleges. McCardell con-
tacted several Annapolis presidents
to see what they thought of the cur-
rent drinking age, and they found
a common desire to reopen public
debate on the matter. The initia-
tive signatories hope this debate will
cause elected ofﬁcials to reconsider

/

W&L joins
debate over
minimum
drinking age

about the effectiveness of current poli-
cies regarding alcohol.

CODY BEAUCHAMP / Qpinions Editor

current alcohol legislation and invite
new, safer alternatives to drinking
amongst young adults.

A statement on the initiative’s
website claims that by limiting
drinking to people ages 21 and over,
dangerous binge‘ drinking habits
emerge, particularly on college cam-
puses, among those deemed not old
enough.

“Adults under 21 are deemed

See Amethyst initiative on page 2

Changes to Traveller routes

New stops added, but some oﬁ’-campus houses cut out of service

By Joel Poelhuis
smrr WRITER

Changes designed to improve ser-
vice on the Traveller safe ride pro-
gram will limit access to within ﬁve
miles of campus.

Traveller Dispatch. which pro-
vides transportation for students go-

, ing to and from parties off campus,

will continue to serve 165 of the 173
off-campus houses on record with
the program, according to Traveller
Chair Rebecca Koval. The houses
that are no longer receiving service
include Cedar Creek, Compton,
Hooterville, Lazy River, the Mill,
Pink Palace, Sex Panther and Upper
Toad Run.

Koval said the changes are intend-
ed to cut down on wait times for stu-
dents by eliminating long loops that
strain the system’s limited resources.
She also cited increased safety for the
Dispatch drivers, who previously op-
erated without phone service or radio
contact with the dispatcher on long
runs in the county. The lack of com-
munication combined with poor road

’ conditions and signage put stress on

the drivers, Koval said.

Dispatch drivers George Gelinas
and Eddie Rodriguez agreed.

“If you didnftknow where you
were going and got lost, you’re in

trouble,” said Gelinas, who said he
has been lost for over an hour on
country roads due to poor directions
from passengers.

Rodriguez said he has had several
close calls with deer on unlighted
roads.

To students who live outside
the five-mile radius, the new policy
comes as an unpleasant back-to-
school surprise. Tucker Lawrence, a
resident of Pink Palace, said he feels
the school is forcing distant residents
to “fend for ourselves” in an environ-
ment where taxis and other forms of
public transportation are scarce or
nonexistent.

Will Lewis, Lawrence’s house-
mate, said the residents affected by
the changes were left out of the de-
cision-making process. Lazy River
resident Austin Colpini agreed,
saying that the policy was not an-
nounced until students had already
signed binding leases which place
them outside the service area.

Lawrence said that while the situ-
ation is tough for himself and other
residents of country houses, it is
harder on large groups of partygo-
crs.

“We hire sober drivers, but a lot
of people use Traveller,” he said.

Colpini said those living outside

the service area are considering how
best to petition for a reversal of the
policy. Hesaid that while he un-
derstands the rationale behind the
change, he believes it runs counter to
Traveller’s mission of providing ser-
vice to those living off campus and
was done with an irresponsible lack
of input from the student body.

Koval said that the Traveller
board is open to discussion. Inter-
ested parties should contact her via
email with comments or complaints.
She said in the future, funding for
GPS in the‘Dispatch vehicles could
make driving on the back roads safer
and more efﬁcient.

While the Traveller Dispatch ser-
vice is reigning in its range, the Trav-
eller Express bus lines have expand-
ed with several new stops. The new
blue line will follow the approximate
route of last year’s regular Traveller
line and the red line will go to areas
previously served by the Country
Express.

New steps include the Log Cab-
ins and increased service to the law
school. Koval said that during the
evaluation period it became clear
that law students needed more con-
venient stops. Other changes to the
service will include training drivers
to deal with hostile passengers.

OPINIONS / page 3

NUMBER 1

  

UNNERSHY usnmy

2 - THE RINGLEliIIGToN,vA2445g

SEP 1 0 2993

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8,2008

Feeding the hungry

Jenny Sproul becomes new Campus Kitchens coordinator

Photo courtesy Jenny Sproul

campus Kitchens coordinator Jenny Sproul and volunteer Rosemary Kelley prepare meals at Beta fraternity house.

By Jamie Klm
smrr wanna

Washington and Lee alumnus Jenny Sproul
has started her postgraduate career by return-
ing to W&L as the coordinator of the Campus
Kitchens Project.

Campus Kitchens, a hunger relief project in
connection with W&L’s Shepherd Poverty Pro-
gram, collects unused food from the school’s
dining hall and makes nutritious meals for
Rockbridge County’s needy.

Sproul took over the Campus Kitchen from
another W&L graduate, Robbie Turner ‘02,
who is now the coordinator for the Bonner Pro-
gram, which is part of the Shepherd Poverty
Program.

Sproul said she has two main goals for the
year ahead: expanding into parts of the county
that aren’t currently being reached by Campus
Kitchens and carrying out a work release pro-
gram with the Natural Bridge Juvenile Correc-
tion Center.

“We are going to expand further out into the
County where it’s less accessible, like Goshen
and Glasgow,” she said.

Sproul has already organized the work re-
lease program, which will allow a cadet from
the correction center to come to W&L to work
in the Campus Kitchen, recently relocated from

the Beta fraternity house to Kappa Sigma, start-
ing in October. There will be one cadet working
at a time, and he will be paid the equivalent of
work study wages for 20 hours a week.

“After a few months, if our cadet graduates
the program, we will hopefully receive a new
placement,” Sproul said. “The cadet should
learn valuable skills in the kitchen and admin-
istrative duties.”

The Campus Kitchens has been and will
continue to take every precaution to ensure that
safety is a priority, she said. Sproul said the ca-
dets would wear GPS ankle bracelets.

Majoring in politics and sociology and par-
ticipating in the Shepherd Program, volunteer-
ing has always been appealing to Sproul. The
ﬁrst time she became interested in the Campus
Kitchens was when she visited the Magnolia
Center by her friend’s invitation.

After visiting the Magnolia Center, a day
program for developmentally-disabled adults in
Buena Vista, she realized how much she enjoyed
the interaction with the community. Sproul said
delivery is her favorite part of the job.

She remembers serving one of the residents .

at Magnolia Center who was hostile at ﬁrst. “By
consistently coming to visit and sharing meals,

we’ve built a friendship,” Sproul said. “So now
we look forward to our time together on Fri-
days.”

Ever since then, her college life has been

ﬁlled with various volunteering activities. She -

volunteered for Campus Kitchens her entire ju-
nior year and she was on the leadership team.
She participated in the Department of Social
Services Foster Care Program, tutored and
mentored in Rockbridge County schools, and
led Young Life camp.

Since it started in August 2006, Campus
Kitchens has delivered over 23,000 meals,
worked with eight partner agencies and has had
over 650 volunteers. Anyone can join the Cam-
pus Kitchens Project, Sproul said. After prepar-
ing meals in the kitchen, volunteers deliver the
food to people in Lexington, Buena Vista and
Rockbridge County, taking time to eat and talk
with them.

“One unused tray of food from the D-hall
can feed about 40 people in the county,” Sproul
said. “Food mostly comes from the D-hall, but
we also get donations from Kroger and other
organizations.”

Now the head of Campus Kitchens, Sproul
intends to work in the project for two years.

Grant will fund new courses

Environmental studies gets $600, 000 for Chesapeake _Bay research

By Victoria Taylor
surr wnman

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity recently received a four-year,
$600,000 grant from The Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation to further
expand its Environmental Studies
program, which gained approval in
May 2007 to move from a concen-
tration to a major.

The grant will allow the de-
partment to create a place—based
program in the Chesapeake Bay
watershed. This will add a domes-
tic counterpart to the study abroad
program in Brazil.

“[The Chesapeake Bay water-
shed] is a very important environ-_
mental resource,” said Professor
James Kahn, John F. Hemdon Pro-
fessor of Economics and head of
environmental studies, “and also a
very stressed resource because of
all of the urban growth in the mid-
Atlantic.”

Nutrient pollution, , chemical
contaminants, air pollution, land-
scape changes, erosion and over-
harvesting of ﬁsh and shellﬁsh are
also harming the Bay and water-
shed, which arc home to more 3600
species of plants and animals.

Assistant professor of biology
Robert Humston will be teaching
courses related to Chesapeake Bay

and watershed management as well
as developing research and other
co-curricular opportunities for stu-
dents interested in ecology, conser-
vation and management.

“This program has
some great beneﬁts...
the opportunity to
examine one of today ’s
most important envi-
ronmental issues right

in our backyard. ”

ROBERT HUMSTON, biology

Professor Humston, who has
background in ﬁsheries ecology
and management, is developing
three courses directly related to
the program. The ﬁrst is an aquatic
ecology course through the Biol-
ogy department in which the labs
will focus on monitoring a new

stream restoration effort in Rock-
bridge County. The others will be
a two-course watershed sequence
containing a winter term course in-
tended to be a broad introduction to
watershed issues for students from
a variety of disciplines, and a spring
term ﬁeld course for students who
are interested in getting “up-close
and personal” with the material.

“The winter term course will
consider watershed management
from a broad perspective, consid-
ering the scientiﬁc and cultural
underpinning of current conserva-
tion issues,” Humston said. “The
Chesapeake Bay will provide the
context for most of these topics,
but the course will also consider
other systems for comparative pur-
poses.”

The ﬁeld course will look spe-
ciﬁcally at the habitats and stress-
ors within the Chesapeake Bay
watershed and give the students a
chance to see how the fundamen-
tals they leamed during the win-
ter term appear and “play out at
ground-level.” .

“This program has some great
beneﬁts, with the biggest being the
opportunity to examine one of to-
day’s most important environmen-
tal issues right in our backyard,”
Humston said.

“The Brazil programs give the
opportunity for place—based leam-
ing in Brazil but we didn’t have a
good domestic counterpart to that,
so the Chesapeake Bay Program
was a natural way to incorporate
that with the rivers up here and the
Chesapeake Bay watershed,” Kahn
said.

Thanks to the U.S.-Brazil Pro-
gram, a grant competition run by
the governments of the two coun-
tries, W&L has a strong exchange
program with two Brazilian uni-
versities: Universidade Federal do
Amazonas in Manaus and Univer-
sidade Federaldo Rio de Janeiro.
Interested students take intensive
Portuguese, followed by classes at
one of the Brazilian universities:
two interdisciplinary environmental
studies courses, a directed research
project with a Brazilian professor
and an elective.

The formation of the Chesa-
peake Bay program will allow
those Brazilian students studying at
W&L as part of the exchange to be
eligible for funding to do research
or internships with agencies in the
Bay areas.

“It’s a very exciting program
to be part of, especially as it is just
getting started,” Humston said.

continued from page 1

Amethyst Initiative

capable of voting, signing contracts, serving on juries
and enlisting in the military,” the statement says, “but are
told they are not mature enough to have a beer.”

The effort does not, however, call for a lower drinking
age, a widely held misconception that has challenged the
Amethyst Initiative since its outset.

The initiative garnered negative attention in the media
after its ﬁrst appearance in the Associated Press, when a
ﬂurry of inaccurate stories came out regarding the initia-
tive as a proposal to lower the drinking age to 18.

W&L’s new executive director of communications and
public affairs Jeff Hanna knows that is not the case.

“In some ways it was unfortunate that it got a little bit
ahead of itself so that there was an immediate and fairly
sharp reaction from opponents of lowering [the drinking
age],” he said.

Hanna has been tracking the initiative since its incep-
tion and has been keeping Ruscio abreast of its develop-
ments in the media.

Hanna said that people both in favor of, and opposed
to, lowering the drinking age have signed on to the initia-
tive. .

“It’s clear people want to have a conversation about
it,” he said.

Sophomore Merritt Poling is glad that these debates
are being held, but remains skeptical as to their outcome.

“I ﬁnd it interesting and encouraging that they are 
concerned about so many things that [students] are con-
cerned about . . . but ultimately it’s a national law, and very
diﬂicult to change,” he said.

“I don’t think anything startlingly new is going to come
from this,” Poling added. _

Lucy Hundley, a junior at W&L, said though she sup-
ports the initiative’s motives, she does not see it as a way
to reduce risky drinking behavior amongst students.

“[Drinking] is not going to be safer, it’s just going to
be legal. If it were legal, most people would be drinking’.
I don’t think that’s bad at all, but I do think that drinking
is something that tends to develop as a habit more often
than not,” she said.

Nevertheless, Hundley applauds the University for
participating in the Amethyst Initiative.

“Overall I deﬁnitely support it because if anything
it’s dialogue, and having communication with students is
important. Students don’t give the administration enough
credit sometimes. Their spearheading this is a vote of
conﬁdence in the student body,” she said.

Ruscio joined the other signatories in hopes of further-
ing the debate.

“I want to explore a variety of efforts to address the
problem of irresponsible and dangerous drinking on our
campus,” he said.

“I am committed, ﬁrst and foremost, to ﬁnding an ef-
fective way to educate college students--especially W&L
students--about their responsibilities when it comes to al-
cohol.” 

continued from page 1

Graphic Identity

“Most students that I’ve talked to think the Crest is the
way to go,” said Wright. “It’s a symbol worthy of repre-
senting the ﬁne institution that is W&L.”

Other members of the W&L community, though
smaller in number, applaud the university’s decision to
review its graphic identity.

“Washington and Lee’s graphic identity was muddled
at best,” said Lisa R. Miller, graduate of the Class of
2005, in an e—mail. “It was unclear, messy, and not stan-
dardized.” ,

Miller also explained the importance of developing a
clear identity. “The basic idea of any branding effort is
to clean up and clarify communications with the external
community,” she said.

“What would Coca-Cola be without that red and white
symbol we know so well? This can only help the Univer-
sity’s status as a premier university on a national stage.”

By the end of the fall, W&L and NCSDO plan to draft
guidelines detailing the use of the university’s new imag-
es. These guidelines will be in the form of a short manual
that “will codify the elements of the identity” and suggest
rules for their implementation.

The Graphic Identity Working Group welcomed com-
ments from students and others over the surmner, but it
is unclear as to how student input has actually shaped or
altered the process of redesigning the graphic identity.

Dennis Cross, member of the Working Group, could
not be reached for comment this week.

1 987: -

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY '

The last major redesign of the graphic
Identity produced this wordmark/logo and
gggrlles of guidelines for use of Images In

2006:

  
   

I‘ 1 t , WASHINGTON  Lea
Iiil UNt.V’£R:SI’!‘Y

-W&L updated the wordmark/logo In 2006

but did not revise the guidelines for use of
the graphic Identity.

2008:

Washiiigton and Lee Uriiversity

NCSDO proposed this new wordmark/logo '
In July.

M

  
 

* Pa1in’s Problem

 

 

.7

THE RING-TUM PHI -3

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

opinions

Was McCain crazy to pick Palin?...

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS EDITOR

John McCain has lost his ever-lovin’ mind.
That’s all there is to it.

How else could you explain his pick ofAlaska
Governor Sarah Palin as his running mate?

There are so many problems with Sarah Palin
being the second highest executive in the land, it’s
mind-boggling.

Let’s begin, my friends, with experience.
McCain’s greatest asset this campaign was his
impressive resume. He beat Obama’s resume no
matter how eloquently the Illinois Senator tried to
argue otherwise.

McCain’s best bet strategy was to make this
election about experience, his over Obama’s lack
thereof.

But when Obama picked Biden as his run-
ning mate, he went a long way towards blunting
McCain’s edge. McCain decided to go ahead and
completely throw it away by picking Palin.

Technically, yes, Palin has more executive

experience than any of the other three — Mc-

Cain, Obama, Biden — but you can’t claim with a
straight face it’s any kind of experience that quali-
ﬁes her for the Vice Presidency.

Her time as mayor of Wasilla, Alaska (pop.
7,025) compromises the bulk of her ‘executive
experience,’ at six years.

I know this — Palin claiming she’s ready for
the Vice Presidency because she was executive of
a population that is 1 / 42,704th that of the United
States’ is ridiculous.

Using that kind of logic, my fraternity pres-
ident is ready, right now, at this moment, to be
Governor of a state with 1.1 million residents.

To be fair to Palin though, she is a governor
~ her resume is slightly better than just mayor of
a tiny town.

So what’s her record for two years as Alaska’s
governor‘? Is this the sweet spot where she gains
military experience (as commander of the Alas-
kan National Guard), foreign policy experience
(as Governor of the only state save Hawaii to ac-
tually see combat on its soil in the last century),
and executive experience that trumps Obama, and
more accurately Biden?

As for military experience, the Alaskan Na-
tional Guard has only been called into duty once
by Palin. To battle forest ﬁres. And, might I point
out, her command of the Guard is ceremonial; just
like all the other 49 governors who technically
‘command’ their state’s guards.

How about foreign policy experience? In 2000
then-Govemor Bush had a marginally valid claim
to have gained some foreign policy experience
from Texas’ dealings with cross-border Mexican
states —- can Palin make a similar claim?

Hardly. She’s never been to Russia. She’s also
never arranged any kind of government deal with

the Yukon, Alaska‘s Canadian neighbor, though
she has helped broker a few deals between US
and Canadian oil companies that have led to, as
McCain would gleefully put it ifPalin were Dem-
ocrat, a ‘greater dependency on foreign oil."

She does have a hell of biography though,
and I love the idea ofa ‘hockey mom’ becoming
the new symbol of the common American voter.
‘Soccer moms’ were becoming passe anyway.

But she’s got so little experience that Obanias
resume looks downright amazing by contrast. Bi-
ographies be damned, Obama‘s experience heats
hers (his biography tool).

And lest we forget, Biden is more accurately
her rival, and his experience slaughtcrs hers like a
grizzly going at salmon.

But beyond the fear that McCain’s potential
Veep has the least experience out of any of the
four, let’s examine for a second the most cliill—
ing thing of all - Sarah Palin could realistically
be President of the United States if iVlcCain is
elected.

John McCain loves to trot out his 95-year old
mother, Roberta, and point to her as sign Ion-gc\—
ity runs in his family. Not so fast Mac.

McCain’s father was Admiral John 5. McCain.
Jr. He died at age 70, from a heart attack. Ve-
Cain’s grandfather was Admiral John S. McCain.
Sr., and he died at age 6 I, again of a heart attack.

Neither of the two of them ever suffered six
years of torture at the Hanoi lliltoii. I’m not a
physiological expe1't. but I in willing to bet that
McCain’s stint as a F-.C.W. took years olliliis life.

So you’ve got a man Wllii :1 familial history
of heart trouble, who spent years in brutal captiv-
ity, and who — according to family medical liisilmy
— is already defying odds to still be alive running
for the most stressful job on the planet.

The person he’s picked to be a heart-heat away
from the Oval Office has essentially no rneanii;g-
ful experience.

McCain’s choice of Palin for running mate
isn’t insane because she’s a woman.

Don’t let Republicans happy to ha ve a claim to
‘diversity’ for the first time in their party’s history
fool you on that count.

Ferraro already sliattcretl that glass, ccilin and
Hillary not a year ago did much to pi'o\'e were
moving into a post‘-gender political world.

McCain’s choice of Palin for running mate is
insane because in an election where he’s saying
experience is the thing you base your vote on. his
ticket is suddenly the most inexperienced.

Now McCain has not only lost his most effec-
tive tactic against Obama (short of racism), he‘s
allowed his running mate to highlight just how
screwed we’d all be if his considerable age gets
the best of him.

Still don’t think McCain’s lost his cver—lovin‘
mind?

Palirfs Promise

...or was it a choice

By Abel Delgado
COLU M NIST

The latest ridiculous twist in a presidential
campaign too strange for comparison was not John
McCain’s choice of Governor Sarah Palin as his
running mate - it was the Obama Campaign’s reac-
tion to it.

Democrats who defend their candidate by say-
ing judgment is important and experience is not
say that Palin does not have enough experience to
be a 'heart-beat‘ away from the presidency.

They spent most of their convention on biog-
raphy and very little on record and now want you
to ignore Palins’ amazing biography and focus in-
stead on her lack of foreign policy experience.

Did I miss something or did the Democrats just
become the ‘Republican Attack Machine‘ they
have told others to ignore?

The attacks on Palin are so similar to the ones
Republicans used on Obama that they look copied
and pasted.

Robert E. Lee would call that an HV. He cer-
tainly wouldn’t think the media’s treatment of her
and her family is 'gentlemanlike' either.

Critics say that Palin is just the Republican ver-
sion of Obama.

Palin is actually the Republican version of what
Obama wants us to think he is.

While 'post-partisan’ Obama was voting with
his party over 90% of the time, Palin was unseat-
ing a Republican Governor, forcing out a corrupt
Republican Attorney General, and naming Demo-
crats and Independents to her cabinet.

While 'anti-big oil’ Obama was voting for tax
breaks and subsidies for oil companies and receiv-
ing more political contributions from Exxon than
John McCain, Palin was battling the oil compa-

nies by opening up competition, increasing pro- .

duction taxes, and using the extra money to give
Alaskans a tax refund so they can pay for rising
energy costs.

So critics charge she has no experience. They
don’t mention that she has more executive ex-
perience than Obama, Biden, and even McCain

of sheer genius?

have. . .combined.

This is important considering the four of them
are running for the two highest executive posts in
the land.

Palin-critics remind us that Alaska lia:-: a small-
er population than Austin, Texas.

They forget it also provides us with 20% ofour
oil - 10% more than the Middle East. This is im-
portant considering the energy crisis we are cur-
rently in.

No doubt many people questioned whether
Palin could handle the pressure when she was
picked.

After her acceptance speech, the more press-
ing question is how Democrats are going to handle
her.

Obama claims he has more executive experi-
ence that Palin because of running his campaign.
If running a campaign is all the experience you
think a President needs, then vote for Obama.

One of the more disgraceful arguineiits being
made by Democratic operatives is that Palin is a
gimmick’.

Of course this is insulting on so many levels
and ignores the records both Mc(‘:iiii and Palin
have of caring more about people than politics.
Would she be the VP if she were a inan‘."lVIaybe
not. Would she be called a gimmick it she were a
man? Of course not.

These people would have called former Demo-
crat and long-time Senator Joe Lieberman a gim-
mick if he had been the VP choice. and they would
have said the same of the reform—niinded Gover-
nor Bobby Jindal.

According to them if you‘re not white, protes-
tant, Republican, and male, supporting John Mc-
Cain makes you a gimmick.

The DNC apparently thinks the most important
experience required of women and minorities is a
(D) behind their names.

Sarah Palin may not be experienced enough
for their liking, but she is certainly experienced
enough to expose them as frauds.

 

‘editorial

Applause for Amethyst

Ruscio commits to the kind of honest debate we need

It’s not often that these pages bear praise for
administrators. I

Which is why the Phi is so excited to say ‘a
hearty ‘good call’ to any and all who had a hand
in Washington and Lee’s recent decision to join
the Amethyst Initiative.

The Initiative, which as of press-time has 129
signatories, is one of those movements Washing-
ton and Lee couldn’t not be a part of. I

Alcohol and its effects on individuals and
— more importantly — society is a "pillar of the
W&L zeitgeist. There is nothing hyperbolic in
the claim that alcohol has affected absolutely ev-
ery single person’s life at this school.

For our money, alcohol is a chief factor be-
hind the University’s decision to not cooperate
with the Princeton Review. Whether or not our
failure to be listed at all in the publication’s Best
368 Colleges’ will haveiany fallout in the long-
tcrm is yet to be known. -

But it’s clear that our administrators weren’t
pleased with W&L continually earning top marks
for beer consumption, hard alcohol consumption,
partying, and Greek life.

Alcohol’s effects on gender relations at this
school cannot be understated either.

Last year, the Interfraternity and Pan—Hellenic
councils ﬂirted with an initiative aimed at poten-
tially drastic changes for Greek life at W&L.
Then—lF C President Andrew Duckworth said to
an IFC meeting that the troubling number of so-
rority womeh getting the morning-after pill from
the health center following last year’s tear night
was a huge factor behind the initiative.

Let’s re-phrase that for clarity. Two bodies
governing 80% of the student body felt parties

alcohol-fueled parties — were placing a disturb-
ing nuinber of W&L women into very real sexual
crisis.

And the problems with our image or our
Greek life due to alcohol are only the tip of the

sponsibly.

Lee.

’ on US.

booze iceberg.

An inordinate and chilling number of students
need medical care, even hospitalization every
month because of drinking. I ‘

An expensive safe—ride network is, sadly, nec-
essary at Washington and Lee. ‘

’ While plenty of other colleges have Traveller-
like systems in place, we at the Phi doubt many
receive the near-universal and overburdening use
Traveller does. '

If there was ever a school that needed to have
a frank discussion on the drinking age its Wash-
ington and Lee. If there’s a college in America
where the students need to have a voice in deter-
mining what alcohol consumption and responsi- -
bility should mean, it’s W&L. ' I

Not because‘we’re the best at it'— we aren’t.
But because (if last year’s Bracket and DTF ﬁ-
ascos prove anything) we’vé seen the price of
ignoring social problems. , ‘

Washington and Lee is a tight-knit commu-
nity, and we know our own problems well. Last
year proved the college has the capacity for talk-
ing through problems and moving forward re-

Thc Amethyst Initiative proves President
Ruscio is committed to responsibly addressing
drinking at Washington and Lee. Whereas he’
and the administration could have ignored the is-
sue until problems came to a head (no beer pun
intended), they opted for the pro-active course
and committed W&L to honest and open debate.

Because make no mistake, that’s what the
Amethyst Initiative will do for Washington &

Ruscio not only threw W&L’s name behind
a national call for a debate on drinking respon-
sibly, he committed his administration to a like-
wise frank conversation herc on campus.

For that, we say cheers! Keri, the next round’s

--  --—-—-~ WASHINGTON an LEE UMVERSITY —-—4--

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MANAGING EDITOR

. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
WILL DORRANCE
CELESTE CRUZ-'
CARANDANG
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS CRIGHTON ALLEN
ADAM CANCRYN
JEAN CHAPMAN
KEVIN CORN
ABEL DELGADO
BRETT HOLTON
JAMIE KIM

JOEL POELHUIS
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
KIMBER WIGGS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
CHARLES PERSONS
STROCK MOORE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE .
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully. and
thoroughly report news affecting the‘/w/ashington
and Lee community for students, aculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON 8:
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE’ THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING~TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
‘ COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

Flowers &
Things

F reshﬂowers,
balloons, gift & fruit
baskets and birthday
cakes all delivered! I I

Call 261-6300

Solid wood kitchen
sets and 4 chairs-
$300

to see call Flowers
and Things-261-6300

We deliver!

Local & Organic Food
Downtown

HEALTHY-
FOODS
CO-OP

LOCALLY GROWN
PRODUCE ° SMOOTHIE
BAR

CARRY our OR EAT IN

Freshly Prepared Meals
Daily —
Healthy. Fresh &
Delicious

MON.- FRl.9AM - 6 PM;
SAT.9AM - 5 PM

I l0WestWashington
Street I
Downtown Lexington,
across from W&L 463.6954

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

 

arts&life*

 

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer
Baton Rouge-based Benjy Davis Project performs on Cannan Green.

pizza.

solos.

 

Going above and beyond the call
of duty, this year’s FOC (First-Year
Orientation Committee) kicked 0-
Week into high gear by inviting Ba-
ton Rouge’s The Benjy Davis Project
to perform last Monday night. The
Louisiana group is gaining popularity
and momentum in the music world.
First—years and upperclassmen alike
came out for rocking tunes and free

At nine o’clock, a ﬂood of ﬁrst-
years burst onto Cannan Green. They
were met by the funky sounds of the
Lalai Damas, whose set was already
in progress. Singer Malcolm Hines
was joined by bassist Robert Wason,
guitarist Spencer McElroy, and drum-
mer Keith Friend. As the winners of
last year’s Battle of the Bands, the
Lalai Damas did not disappoint.
Their cover of Outkast’s “Roses”
showcased the house band’s award-
winning talent.

Following the Lalai Damas was
an all too brief set by W&L’s resi-
dent folk troupe Rikki Tikki Tavi.
Singer, songwriter, keyboardist, and
a modern day Jill-of-all-trades, Ju-
lie Slonecki, started the set off with
a little Rilo Kiley. Singer-songwriter
Michael Morella ﬁnished the set off
with his own “Postcards from Aus-
tralia.” Drummer Morgan Harris kept
the beat while guitarist Will Stewart
wowed the crowd with his ﬁery guitar

By the time the headliners tookthe
stage, the free pizza had diminished

and the crowd had somewhat thinned,
but a strong contingent of music lov-
ers had remained. It is a testament-
to the Benjy Davis Project that they
were able to hold of a respectable
crowd of_ W&L students when most
of the school’s population was prob-
ably taking advantage of the fourth
consecutive night of O-Week parties.
A few ﬁrst-years, when asked, admit-

Benjy Davis Project rocks Gweek ’
        Baton Rouge band performs at W&L

By Kimber Wiggs
STAFF WRITER

sic, an independent label that has also
represented such acts as Sister Hazel
and Reel Big Fish. Being signed will
mean a lot of important things for
the band, including the re-recording
of their album Dust. The new release
will include three new songs, Rusnak
told me, so fans of the band should be _
on the look—out.

Noting the band’s Dave Matthews-

esque sound, I asked Matt about his

I think I speak for

everyone present that

pus.

night when I express
the wish that we could
all go aboard the BDP

rock boat.

ted that they had not known about the
Benjy Davis_Project before the con-
cert, but they thoroughly enjoyed the
show. The band’s brand of alternative
jamming was a good ﬁt for the cam-

Sadly, a city ordinance governing
noise on a school night meant that the
BDP was forced to end their set just
before 11 p.m.

I had a chance to talk with bass-
ist Matt Rusnak. This newest member
of the BDP gave me a scoop that will
surely delight fans of the band both

musical inﬂuences. Grinning, he re-

vealed that a better question would
be to ask what he does not listen to.
(Old-school country is one genre.)
He said he likes anything with a good
bass line and a good heat — he ad-
mires the band’s own drummer Mic
Capdevielle. He also cited southern
rock as a major inﬂuence.

When asked why the Baton

Rouge-based band came all the way

to Virginia, Rusnak revealed that

W&L would not be their only port of

call in the area. He also told me that
the group had just ﬁnished a short run
in the Midwestand Chicago area. For
fans of the Benjy Davis Project and
water, the band will soon be perform-

ing on a “rock boat.” The term means

new and old: after six years of try-

ing, the Benjy Davis Project has been
signed. The label is Rock Ridge Mu-

exactly what is sounds like: a few
bands, one cruise ship, and endless
rocking.

I think I speak for everyone pres-
ent that night when I express the wish
that we could all go aboard the BDP
rock boat.

Big Brother Big Sister luncheon a big success

University Big Brothers and Sisters help welcome the Class of 201 2, forge friendships with ﬁrst-year students

By Valaree Tang
STAFF warren

The Freshman Orientation
Council (FOC) organized its
annual University Big Brother/
Sister event. In order to welcome
the new students, upperclassmen
were paired with freshmen for a
luncheon on September 2.

Like past years, many frater-
nities hosted cookouts. While
many University Big.. Brothers
and Sisters took the new students
to fraternity barbeques, some
chose a different option. ‘‘I look
my freshmen to the Kwan last
year for a barbeque, which was
really fun, but this year, I took
them to the Bistro for dinner,”
said Farrell Ulrich, who has been
participating in the program for
two years.

The event allowed upper-
classmen to introduce freshmen
to student life. The older students
were able to answer any of the
questions and quell the fears of
the members of the class of 2012.
“ [They can] give ﬁrst-years ad-

vice about scheduling, academ-
ics, and social life, as well as any
other questions the may have,”
said FOC Big Brother/Sister co-
chair Eric Hamscher.

The event gave freshmen the
opportunity to meet upperclass-
men and learn more about aca-
demic life. “I got a chance to talk
about teachers, and it was helpful
to learn about majors and profes-
sors. Everyone found someone
who knew about what they were
interested in studying," said
freshman Sarah Offutt.

While the FOC program in-
formed the ﬁrst-year students
about life on campus, it also of-
fered another asset for the new
students. “It gives the freshmen
an upperclassman they can rec-
ognize when they’re on the Hill,
as opposed to being totally lost.
In my involvement with campus

activities, I’Ve already seen my '

Little several times just random-
ly. If they have questions about
classes or Greek stuff or religious
life, they have an -additional re-
source,” said Sam Gilleran.

For some, lasting relation-
ships were built at one of these
luncheons. ‘‘I think the program
is really effective in introducing
freshmen to W&L, especially for
those who do not know any up-

friendships among students, it
was a chance for upperclass-
men to give back to the program
as well. “It was really great for
me this year to experience the
Washington and Lee Big Brother

“ t gives the freshmen an upperclassman they

can recognize when they ’re on the Hill, as op-

posed to being totally lost...If they have ques-

tions about classes or Greek stuﬂ or religious

life, they have an additional resource. ’

SAM GILLERAN, sophomore

}

1

perclassmen at ﬁrst. It gives the
freshmen a chance to connect
with upperclassmen from their
hometown or home state, which
is really beneﬁcial,” said Ulrich
whose university little sister
ended up being her sorority little
sister as well.

While the program helped
to answer questions and formed

Program from the other side of
the spectrum. As a freshman last
year, I was able to utilize my Big
Brother to ask questions about
the Rush process, residential life,
and academics,” said Jack Pan-
do]. “After spending all year ex-
periencing the school for myself,
it was great to be able to pass that
information on to a new class of

freshmen.”

Like Pandol, Hamscher also
had a very different experience
this year compared to last year.
“Last year, I was never actually
contacted by my assigned Big,
so I wanted to get involved this
Fall to ensure that everyone was
placed and hopefully contacted
by their assigned Big,” said
Hamscher who felt that his expe-
rience on the Freshman Leader-
ship Committee helped him in
planning a successful luncheon.

Pandol also stated that the
FOC program is a vital part of
student friendships on campus
and is more than just a chance
for upperclassmen to share their
prior experiences with freshmen.
“The program allows for fresh-
men to have a much more acces-
sible and personalized ﬁrst-year
experience than any other uni-
versity I know. One of my favor-
ite things about Washington and
Lee is the tight-knit community
that we share around campus,
and this program is an integral
part of that community,” said

Pandol.

He believed that the Big
Brother/ Sister Luncheon pro-
gram was a success. Yet, the
acliievement came at a price.
The Big Brother/Sister chairs
of the FOC, Eric Hamscher and
Ted Kingsbery, put in numer-
ous hours. Following the ini-
tial task of pairing the siblings,
both Hamscher and Kingsbery
were responsible for resolving
any problems that may have oc-
curred. According to Hamscher,
“Every ﬁrst-year was paired with
a Big Brother/ Sister...any and
all complaints from participants
were addressed... I believe that
the majority of students enjoyed
Tuesday’s luncheon,” said Ham-
scher.

Though Hamscher considered
the event a success, he stated
that improvements could still be

"made to the program. “We have

come up with new ideas on how

to make next year’s program

more successful for everyone in-'
volved,” promised Hamscher.

Open-mic night student performances entertain audience

University dance troupe hosts a night of diverse performances, including comedy, dancing, singing and beat-boxing

By Jean Chapman
sr/arr warren

Some of the most talented
musicians and shower singers at
Washington and Lee came to the
annual_Open-mic Night hosted by
the KLASICZ, a student dance
troupe. The event was held in the
Marketplace. The promise of free
ice cream drew a small but very
enthusiastic crowd. Rasaq La-
wal, a member of the KLASICZ,
said that his group hosted the
event last year, and “it was a hit,
so when the opportunity came up

7 again we basically leaped at it.”
Throughout the night, a vari- ,

ety of musical styles were pre-
sented, ranging from hip hop

to 1980s pop rock. Lawal com-
mented that even though he had
thought that “there would be no
talent and it would just be a night
of karaoke and fun...there turned
out to be a lot of good perfor-
mances from a female rapper,
guitar and harmonica player and
a beat boxer.”

First year student Jasmine
Jimenez of Chicago opened the
show with an original Christian
rap. Jimenez ﬁrst became inter-
ested in performing around the
age of 12. She explained that be-
cause she was never very talented
with singing, she became drawn
to composing and performing
rap. Jimenez said that most of her
raps are inﬂuenced by Christian

themes or center around God, but
as the crowd’s positive response
showed, the songs maintained a
broad appeal.

Michael Morella, a junior,
performed second. Morella be-
gan his act with an acoustic ver-
sion of Rihanna’s “Take a Bow”.
He followed his interpretation of
the chart-topping pop ballad with
an original composition entitled
“Patch” which included both
acoustic guitar and harmonica
solos.

Following Morella’s perfor-
mance,- co-host Isaiah Goodman
gave a beat-boxing performance.
Goodman included a little audi-
ence participation that truly high-
lighted the diversity of talent at

Washington and Lee.

Morgan Harris, a senior and
a Residential Advisor, also per-
formed two acoustic songs as
well as delivering some stand-up
comedy. i

After the original perfor-
mances, the karaoke repertoire
that followed ranged from funk
to 80s pop to 905 hits, and was
performed by ﬁrst years, upper-
classmen, and groups of both. As
Lawal put it, “we were off to a
slower start this year but once
we started off the karaoke with
‘Brick House’ and some other
rocking tunes there was no resist-
ing the fun and laughs.” Towards
the end of the night, Kimber
Wiggs delivered a show-stop-

ping rendition of “Total Eclipse
of the Heart” which she had per-
formed previously as a member
of General Admission. Members
of the audience accompanied her
as backup singers while others
danced interpretively to the emo-
tional song. '

The ﬁnal performance of the
night was, appropriately enough,
“Bye, Bye, Bye.” A courageous
group of men sang and danced
to the notorious 90s melody. The
act wasireceived with a number
of cheers, laughs and the sponta-
neous participation of audience
members.

Over all, the Open-mic Night
drew together people of both
genders and all classes for a night

of fun and frivolity. A ﬁrst year
student said that the event was
“really funny...it was a good
idea” and also added that she
“would come again” if another
such event were to be held. An-
other audience member said that

he enjoyed the event, but that “it!

would have been great to have

even more people attending.”
Undeniably, Open-mic Night

was enjoyed by all who did at-

tend, and co-host Lawal said that -

“I think this event is a great, clean
and fun alternative to the barrage
of parties during ‘O’ Week and
it is a good testament to the fact
that there is more to do than just

party.”

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

  

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI

 

sports

Ballistreri, Katherine Fenwick, Dorothy Todd M V   _ _ I M 
Key Losses: The 2007 Generals did not have a senior among their‘ 7 best

  Fall sports preview
Sport: Men’s Cross Country I - 1 ‘ , . it ' It
2007’ Post-Season: Placed 15‘ in the ODAC Championship meet; placed_’4?" f

in the South/Southeast Regional meet
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 1

— South/Southeast Regional Preseason Ranking: 4 7- V

A. Key Returnees: Michael Welsh, Vance Berry, Alex Jackson

 Key Losses: Tom Brower, Andrew Friski ’ . . . ‘ I — I M_ '
Previous Results this Season: Finished first out of 11 teams at the.W&L,

I Invitational on Sept. 6 I ‘ ’ I ‘ _ 1 V,_
Coach John ’Iucker’s Expectations: “Being competitive inthe "Old Do-

. minion Athletic Conference is certainly one of our top priorities. We woul

“like to be in a position to compete for that top spo .” I s 6

9 Sport: Women’s Cross Country

2007 Post-Season: Placed is‘ in the ODAC Championship meet; placed 3*“
in the South/Southeast Regional meet '
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 1

South/Southeast Regional Preseason Ranking: 2

National Preseason Ranking: 32

Key Returnees: Kat Telfeyan, BeccaTaylor, Elizabeth Webb, Christine

runners. ,
Previous Results this Season: Finished ﬁrst out of 12 teams at the Virginia

M Wesleyan Invitational on Aug. 30; ﬁnished ﬁrst outof 10 teams at the W&L M
- Invitational on Sept. 6 A v

Coach Kris Hoey’s Expectations: “It is energizing working‘ with 17 worn»

1 en as talented as this. Each memberof the team will have a hand in blazing
. the trail. to Hanover [NCAA Championships] in November. They all have

different strengths, and we need every single one of them to get theref’

Sport: Field Hockey
2007 Record: 11-7 (5-2 ODAC)

;_2007 Post-Season: Did not compete in postseason -
LI ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 3

Key Returnees: D Emily Mathews,iF Sallie Armstrong, D Liz Garson M

Key Losses: M Kendall Korte, GK Tara Rubenstein 9
Previous Results this Season: Lost 2-1 to Centre on Sept.‘6; lost 3-2 to
M Rhodes on Sept. 7 I . ,

. Coach Wendy Orrison’s Expectations: “I am extremely excited about this It
year’s team. My senior leadership is solid and the teamiis showing a level

of commitment and mental toughness that is top notch; I’m excited and
privileged to work with this stellar group of athletes.”

Sport: Football
2007 Record: 6-3 (4-2 ODAC)

M2007 Post-Season: Did not compete in post-season

ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 4

Key Returnees: OL Greg Kurkis, RB/WR Stuart Sittersoh, DL Tommy-

Matteo

Key Losses: DB Kyle Luby, OL Alex Skotnicki, LB Bryant Fulk, DB Mark
Snoddy, WR Jack Martin, LB Kyle Harvey I

Previous Results this Season: Losfto Franklin & Marshall 24-0 on Sept.
6

Coach Frank Miriello’s Expectations: “We have had 4 consecutive sea-
sons with 6 or more victories and want to perform at a level that will give us
a shot at doing something that has never been done in the history of W&L
football -— _5 consecutive seasons with 6 or more victories.”

‘Sport: Men’s Soccer 7 i

2007 Record: 12-3-3 (6-1-2 ODAC

2007 Post-Season: Lost 2-0 to Roanoke in the ODAC Championship
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 5

Key Returnees: D Fletcher McCraw

Key Losses: M Josh Dodds, F Jack Palmer, GK Ted Sheedy
V Previous Results this Season: Beat Shenandoah 2-0 on Sept. 6; beat Pied-‘
,mcnt2-1onSept.7 ‘ M A . , -  7

Coach Rolf Piranian’s Expectations: “I think we’re going to get better as
I the season goes along. We have come uncertainties about the team that will

be worked out as we face competition.”

Sport: Women’s Soccer . M
2007 Record: 16-4 (9-2 ODAC) B *

-2007 Post-Season: Lost2~1 to Roanoke in the ODAC Semi-Finals B ‘
‘ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 4 _
Key Retnrnees: F Anne Van Devender, M Roz Klann, D Marisa Van -

Brunt

' Key Losses: D Haley Bunting I I - M M . .
Previous Results this Season: Beat Centre 3-1 on Sept. 6; Lost 3-1 to Tran-

sylvania on Sept. 7 ,
Coach Neil Cunningham could not be reached for comment.

Sport: Volleyball

2007 Record: 29-6 (9-1 ODAC) *

2007 Post-Season: Beat Bridgewater 3-0 in the ODAC Championship; lost
3-0 to Southwestern in the ﬁrst round of the NCAA Championships
ODAC Coaches Preseason Poll Ranking: 1

Keyketurnees: OH Laura Maurer, OH Rachael Phillips, RS Jessica Ul-
rich " ‘
Key Losses: RS Jess Huddock

Previous Results this Season: Won the W&L Invitational by beating Dick- "
inson 3-0 and Mary Baldwin on Sept. 5 and then also beating Southern’

Virginia 3-0 and Marietta 3-0 on Sept. 6

Coach Bryan Snyder’s Expectations: “I feel that we have a lot of talent 9
at all of our positions, and this is the most experienced team we have had in V
. probably four years. We have set very lofty team goals for ourselves, and if

everyone works hard all year, I believe we can accomplish them. I am very
excited about this season and can’t wait to see what we can do.’,’ _

. «;,:. .g

XC teams start Well

Both teams place ﬁrst at W&L Invitational

By Kevln Corn
STAFF WRITER

The Men’s and Women’s Cross
Country teams were victorious at
home Saturday as they competed in
the Washington and Lee Invitation-
al. The men took ﬁrst out of eleven
teams, while the women were ﬁrst
out of ten teams. With high-ranking,
individual ﬁnishes and fast times,
there is no doubt that the cross coun-
try teams are ready for another great
year.

on the men’s side, the team was
led by senior Vance Bony who ﬁn-
ished third with a time of 29:34.
Close behind him was ﬁrst-year Matt
Gossett whose time of 29:38 was
good enough for fourth. Senior Alex
Jackson snatched sixth with a time
of 29:55, and junior Stuart Vassey
rounded out W&L’s top ﬁnishers
with a ninth place ranking after run-
ning the course in 30:03.

“It’s great to come out with a win
in the ﬁrst meet, but we know that the
competition we saw today is nothing
like what we will be s'eeing the rest
of the year,” commented Gossett. “It
was a great opportunity to see where
we’re at though, and the fact that we
have such great depth this year is re-

 
  
  

PLAYITAGAIN, SAM
M0n., Sept. 15, 2008

ally going to help us win ODACS.”

Speaking of Gossett, Vassey com-
mented on how the ﬁrst-year “was a
nice surprise today ﬁnishing 2nd for
the team and 4th overall.”

The men’s team was able to se-
cure a ﬁrst-place ﬁnish even without
two of its top ﬁve runners compet-
ing. Both Michael Welsh and An-
thony Ives were unable to race be-
cause of injury. Coach John Tucker
“was very pleased with the team’s
performance” even without these
two important runners for the team.

Senior Elizabeth Webb led the
women, not only for the Generals,
but all other teams as she ﬁnished
ﬁrst in a time of 24:12. Junior Kat
Telfeyan was close behind in second
with a time of 24:36. Senior Becca
Taylor ﬁnished the course in a time
of 24:48, which put her at fourth.
Meanwhile, junior Dorothy Todd
ﬁnished sixth with a time of25:08.

“The 2008 Women’s Cross Coun-
try team is one of the best in the his-
tory of W&L” commented Webb
after the meet. “We come into the
season ranked 32nd among all Di-
vision III teams, our ﬁrst national
ranking — ever. This year we’ve re-
ally clicked as a team. Coming into
preseason, it became very clear that

Performance Dates
Nov. 13, 14, 15, 16,2008

For more information, Contact mcclhannonc@wlu.edu

theater.wlu.cdu

woL REPERTORY DANCE COMPANY

Cloomons FOR.’
STUDENT SHOWCASE zoos

 

W&L REPERTORY
DANCE COMPANY

everyone on the team had put in the
miles over the summer. That really
showed today as weput four Gener-
als in the top six ﬁnishers.”

“Winning this weekend on our .

home course was so great!” added
Todd. “Before the race, Coach [Kris]
Hoey really encouraged us to try to
run in groups so that we could push
each other and encourage each other
during the tough parts of the race.
We are so lucky this year to be able
to work together with our teammates
not only during practice but in the
meets as well. We really do have the
strongest women’s team that W&L
has ever seen! It really is so much
easier to make it up the hills or catch
the girl in front of you when you
have your teammates telling you that
you can do it.”

“The best compliment I heard
after the meet was that our team,
unlike the rest of the competition,
didn’t have looks of death or fatigue
on our faces once we came up [the
infamous] F anghom hill,” men-
tioned Taylor. Instead we all looked
determined and ready to push it to
the end. And we are ready...ready to
have an amazing rest of the season.”

    

MMwithM

Tues.,Sept.16,2o0s  6-ssoaswér
7 - 10 pm. wed, Sept. 17,2008
Johnson Theatre / Lenfest Hall Thurs” Sept 18, 2003
7 - 10 p.m.

Johnson Theatre / Lenfest Hall

Performance Dates
Oct. 17 & 18,2008

    

  

ADITIONS
for:

    
  
 
    
  
 

Tues., Sept. I6, 2008
4:40 - 6:30 p.m.
Keller Theatre
Lenfest Hall

For more information,
contact
daviesj@wlu.edu

 
 

.-53'

,-.;»a'-vb...

 

 

 
  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

asdeck

Mon Tues WED Tiiuns Fm SM SUN
at
Football 5°Wa“°°
1:30 pm.
at vs. Johns
FIG” McDaniel Hopkins
Hockey 2 p m 11 a m
at
Men’; Maryvllie
Soccer 1 p_m_
vs.
W0m°||’3 Roanoke
soccer
1 pm.
ys_ VS.
Eastern Randolph &
Noileyball Averett
Mennonite 11 a_m_ g,
6:30 pm. 39-!“-
Women's
xc
at
Men’s xc James
Madison
Invite
Women's:

Tennis

'“°"" ODAC individual Tournament
Tennis

 numbers

 

13

The number of consecutive years that the New York Yankees have

made the playoffs. As of press time Sunday night, the Yankees were

9.5 games back in the American League East and 7.5 games back in

the Wild Card.

0

The number of winning seasons in Tampa Bay Rays history prior to the

2008 season. With 85 wins this season and 21 games left to play,

the Rays have already clinched a winning season. They also currently

sit atop the American League East standings.

1255

The number of career regular season games played by quarterback

Brett Favre for the Green Bay Packers. After being traded to the New

York Jets this offseason in a retirement controversy, Favre played for a

team other than the Packers for the ﬁrst time Sunday since his rookie

A season with the Atlanta Falcons.

I32

Washington and Lee women’s cross country team’s national pre-

season ranking, according to th?.-‘U-.8. Track_8‘=ie|d and Cross Cory

Coaches Association. The team is also ranked second in the South/

Southeast region and ﬁrst in the ODAC.

 

“It’s something I don’t think anyone has ever

done before. Have I ever had a reason for why!

do what I do? I’m having fun.”

Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver formerly known as Chad Johnson
on iegaliy changing his name to chad Javon Ocho Clnco, courtesy of

bengals.com.

‘“‘I got the bags back-—empty. So he’s [Tatum

Bell] got a bunch of my underclothes. WhatShe’s
going to do with that, I don’t know. He's got some

socks and boxers.”

Detroit Lions running back Rudy Johnson on Tatum Bell's returning
Johnson’s Gucci bags without any of their contents. Bell reportedly
stole the belongings out of the team locker room after he was cut

from the team, courtesy of yahoo.com.

 

Recapping the Olympics

Allen reviews highlights, controversies of Summer Games

By Crighton Allen
S TA F F W RITE R

I have a word for you. Just one.
Olympics. Perhaps you heard about it.
If you’re like me, you probably feel like
Bob Costas is a part of the family.

I had my wisdom teeth taken out right
in the middle of the Games, so I ﬁlled
most of my time for a week lying on the
couch, milkshake close at hand, watching
Team USA. The ﬁnal verdict on these
Games is still years away from being
ﬁnally delivered. Beijing delivered mo-
ments of oddity, scandal and triumph, all
in equal proportions. All these episodes
blended together to create an event unlike
any humanity has witnessed ever before.

I myself still -don’t quite know how I
feel about it all. When I_close my eyes, I
can see Michal Phelps’ crooked smile ra-
diating the pride and joy he must surely
feel at winning an epic eight gold med-_
als. But I can also see the bitter irony of
China, a nation that in many respects has
yet to accept even basic standards of hu-
man rights, hosting an event that is sup-
posed to bring the world together in an
atmosphere of peace and mutual respect.
Therefore, I can only offer you my overall
impressions.

For starters, how about the Opening
ceremony? The imagination of Zhang
Yimou, the director of the event, is un-

V real. He makes Stanley Kubrick look like
a cloistered monk. The lights, drummers,
the acrobat seemingly ﬂoating through the
air to light the torch, and the ﬁreworks all
blended together to create an atmosphere

that seriously toed the line between spec-
tacular and trippy. It wasn’t my style, but
it was Zhang’s gig, so it gets a pass.

Here’s what doesn’t get a pass: the
age controversy surrounding Chinese
gymnast Yang Yilin. The International
Olympic Committee stipulates gymnasts
must be or reach sixteen years of age in
an Olympic year to compete. Take a look
at this girl; there is no way she is sixteen.
My ten-year-old brother looks like he
could be her grandfather.

Time and time again Chinese ofﬁcials
insisted she and all other their athletes
were of legal age and provided the cor-
responding documentation. Normally, I
would take a government ofﬁcial’s word.
However, China’s government has, what
the folks in the PR business like to call
a little “credibility problem.” China still
jails journalists whose writing are viewed
as unacceptable, their human rights re-
cord is, I don’t want to say abysmal, but
when the horrors of Darfur are backed by
the Chinese government, forgive me if I
don’t nominate Wen Jiabo, the Chinese
Premier, for Man of the Year. Bottom

line, if Yang Yilin is sixteen, I’ve got abs .

like Dara Torres.

But at the end of the day, the Olym-
pics are fundamentally about celebrat-
ing the men and women who take upon
themselves the great honor and privilege
of competing for their respective nations
on sport’s grandest stage. And how much
there was to celebrate.

A word about Michael Phelps. What
we witnessed for that week in the Water
Cube was the single greatest athletic ac-

complishment in history. Period. Better
than Jordan in any Finals, Lance Arm-
strong in any Tour de France, better than
Roger Bannister on that magical day he
broke the four minute barrier in the mile.
Usain Bolt, the great Jamaican sprinter
who himself had a dominate Games
proved the only thing faster than his legs
may be his mouth when he quipped “I am
an athlete. Michael Phelps is a swim-
mer.” The man swam seventeen races in
nine days. Experts say that is the equiva-
lent of running nine marathons in as many
days. The physical toll that presses on a
body is extreme, equaled only by the psy-
chological stress placed upon him by« the
eyes of the entire world. He got every
competitor’s best shot and rolled with all
punches. True, a Herculean effort by his
teammate Jason Lezak in the 4xl00 meter

_ freestyle made his record eight gold met-

als possible, but that aside, the man owns
16 gold medals, the most by far of anyone
else in history.

Phelps was not the only American
who shone in Beijing. The grace and el-
egance of Nastia Liukin and the athletic
explosiveness of Shawn Johnson brought
gymnastics home to many Americans in
a way never before seen. The aforemen-
tioned Dara Torres won three silver med-
als at the age of 41. Her Olympic career
began at the 1984 Games in Los Angeles,
a year before Phelps was even born. Did
I mention her six-pack?

Beijing, through good and bad, en-
thralled the world for a magical two
weeks. London 2012: good luck with the
follow-up.

Men’s soccer kicks off season

Team beats Shenandoah 2-0 Saturday and Piedmont 2-1 Sunday

By Adam Cancryn
smrr wrmsn

One small ﬂick of the head from mid-
ﬁelder Drew Crowley turned a frustrating
Saturday afternoon into a hard-fought ﬁrst
win for the Washington & Lee University
Men’s Soccer team.

Receiving a comer kick from forward
Whit Larkin, Crowley re-directed the ball
into the back of the net, ending 64 minutes
of scoreless play and lifting the Generals to
an eventual 2-0 victory over Shenandoah
University.

“We wanted to get the ﬁrst goal and pin
them down,” said Crowley of his team’s
strategy. On the comer kick opportunity,
“the goalie froze and the ball just kind of
plopped in.”

While the strategy was simple, for
much of the game the execution proved
much tougher.

Already three games into their season,
Shenandoah came in prepared and hungry
for their ﬁrst win. And at points, it seemed
the visiting Hornets would take advantage
of W&L’s ﬁrst-game jitters.

Despite playing the ball almost ex-
clusively in their end in the early going,
Shenandoah broke through with the ﬁrst

real scoring chance of the game. Taking
advantage of a W&L defensive misplay,
midﬁelder Karim Kamara ﬁred an open
shot from the right side that ﬂew past the
keeper’s outstretched arms. Luckily for the
Generals, the ball glanced off the inside of
the left post and back into play, saving an
early goal.

Following the initial scare, W&L settled
into its possession play and took back mo-
mentum.

They started to methodically work the
ball into the Shenandoah zone, getting their
best chance on a James Pymm breakaway
that forced the keeper to make a spectacu-
lar sliding save. While, according to head
coach Rolf Piranian, Shenandoah was “the
more athletic team,” the Generals were
neutralizing them by “playing smarter. ”

Coming out of the half tied 0-0, W&L
showed a marked difference in intensity
and tempo.

Using the accelerated pace and in-
creasing physicality of the game to their
advantage, the Generals immediately put
Shenandoah on its heels. It was not long
after that Crowley headed in the team’s
ﬁrst goal, putting them in the lead.

With about 25 minutes still left to play,

W&L hunkered down and turned away a
number of Shenandoah challenges, uti-
lizing their team depth to keep everyone
fresh.

“Sometimes you (the team) start to lag,
and we go in there to pick up the intensity,”
said ﬁrst-year midﬁelder Stiles Harper on
the role of a sub.

Shenandoah tried frantically to equal-
ize, but in the end it was the Generals who
got the break.

With the Hornets goalie coming out.to
handle a long ball, pressure from forward
Huntley Johnson forced him to botch the
catch. A quick tap of the ball into the open
goal sealed the game.

Following the match, Coach Piranian
said he felt play was sloppy overall and in-
sisted the Generals would and could play
much better in the future. Yet, in what he
called a “gut check” game, W&L came
away with the best possible result: a “W”
in the books and a positive start to the new
season. . '

The Generals continued their week-
end homestand on Sunday against Pied-
mont College. Crawley’s early score and
Harper’s sudden-death overtime goal gave
W&L the 2-1 win over the Lions.

SENIOR MEETING

Tuesday, September 9
Szllllll p.m.

Commons Theater

This meeting is for ALL seniors!

Meet the staff and get information
about the job Search process.

Learn about the procedures
for on-campus interviews.

Hear from ’08 grads about their
job search experiences.

W

HINC-TON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

AREER©SER-VICES

i . A
aaayizaaaaaa
l’l~IDAL CAR DINER & Tm 'l‘0r Cm‘.

Order from our complete mam:
Or Jain usjbr one r2faurALI. YOU CAN 1:14TBaﬂéts.*

Friday Night Seafood Sofie: with Crab Legs 5pm.-10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm-10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast 11am-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm~2am
Breakfast Bar 7 Days a Week 6am~1 lam
Daily Hot Country Bar liamflupm
Daily Soup. Salad, & Fruit Bar Ham-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours 3 day, 7 days a week?

Home Cooker! Meals & Sriutiiern Hospitality!

ill liilﬂmli

l~8l & I-64. Exit i‘/>5. 2516 ?\ior1h Lee I-lvry, lexingiori, VA

ﬁres? food 3: :2 gram‘ coilection of
Antique Pedal Cars 8: Tia Toysi

.ot:ated at

540-463-3478

 

B

