 

Arch

'*7s.v;§
pail
v. tI2_
m0 J:

co?»

  

The men's

  CouIdn’t beat the odds

basketball team loses in
V ODAC finals.

A SPORTS / page 8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

E RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXII, NUMBER 15

clai

cs team  

5 Victory

W&L web site

W&L team beats Shenandoah College in the
Ethics Bowl, becoming the ﬁrst host team to win

W&L team members, center, hold the Ethics Bowl trophy. From left: Roger Mudd, a 1950
graduate of W&L and former journalist for CBS; Alex Weber, ‘O9; Alisha Laventure, ‘O9; Me-
lissa Caron, ‘09; Alexandra Scaggs, ‘09; Juan Austin, representing event sponsor Wachovla.

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

With the argument that it is permissible
to use deceit as a last resort in obtaining
information that is in the public interest,
Washington and Lee University’s ethics
competition team won the 10th annual
Ethics Bowl. They were the ﬁfth W&L
team to do so.

The topic of the ethics bowlpthis year

was “Ethics and Journalism.” On the com- .

petition team were seniors Alex Weber,
Alisha Laventure, Melissa Caron and Alex-
andra Scaggs. Weber is majoring in politics
and physics while Laventure, Caron and
Scaggs are journalism majors.

A second exibition team competed
throughout the tournament, including

The ﬁnalists debated a case on whether it
would be ethical for an editor to publish an
article in which a reporter posed as a morti-
cian to investigate a military case in which
deaths, which were due to friendly ﬁre,
were being called “training accidents.”

The teams each took a side of the argu-
ment, with W&L representatives support-
ing the actions of the reporter and Shenan-
doah College representatives opposing the
reporter’s actions.

W&L team members argued that the
editor’s actions would be justiﬁed by a
“journalistic responsibility to truth in dem-
ocratic society...as a watchdog and check
on governmental abusive powers,” said
Weber who made the opening statement.

The team argued their way to victory

.“T he journalism majors were able to use material from

their...ethics classes to great eﬂect in giving responses. ”

James Mahon, philosophy professor

sophmore Beth Valentine, senior Robin
Zheng, sophmore Granvil George and se-
nior Gayle Hubbard.

The competition was held in W&L’s
Stackhouse Theater on Feb. 9. President
Ken Ruscio, Provost June Aprille and fac-
ulty members from the Philosophy and
Journalism departments attended the de-
bate.

This was a rare opportunity for mem-
bers of the university since the competition
team typically attends competitions off-
campus. The W&L victory over Shenando-
ah College made W&L the ﬁrst host school
to win the championship.

“Winning the competition outright was
very special for us this year, because for the
ﬁrst time in its 10-year history, the Ethics
Bowl was held on the W&L campus,” said
James Mahon, a philosophy professor who
has been the debate team advisor for six
years. “The ﬁnal debate in Stackhouse was
even more exciting foreveryone to watch,
because the home team was in the ﬁnal.”

The event spanned two days and fea-
tured representatives from 15 private col-
leges and universities in Virginia. Teams
were split up into two divisions in which
the winners from each division would com-
pete for the championship.

with Caron proving that the deception was
used as a desperate remedy in disclosing
information. Laventure argued that ob-
taining accurate information sometimes
necessitates deciept. Scaggs explored the
concept of transparency, arguing the pub-
lisher shouldexplain how the information
was obtained. Weber, who made the open-
ing statement, focused on how democratic
principles applied to the case.

“The Journalism majors were able to
use material from their journalism ethics
classes to great effect in giving responses
to the questions," said lvlahon.

The W&L debate team has won ﬁve of
the ten competitions held. Assistant advisor
professor Paul Gregory attributed the on-
going victories to the pool of academically
gifted students at W&L, but believes that
this team possessed special qualities that
warranted the triumph over Shenandoah
College. “I "think that this year, we just
had the right combinatiorr of knowledge,
speaking ability, and chemistry among the
students,” said Gregory.

“The victory itself was historic,” Weber
said. “This win adds another history-1nak-
ing accomplishment to the rich history of
W&L’s successes.”

TV’s Bob Schieffer

CBS correspondent says Obama used TV

and rallies to great eﬂect in campaign

H By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

ii The 2008 presidential campaign

was a turning point in America’s his- .

tory, Bob Schieffer of CBS told stu-
dents on Monday. A

“There were moments during the
campaign that made you really proud
to be an American,” Shieffer said in
his talk in the Stackhouseffheater.

Schieffer is the chief Washington

‘ correspondent for CBS, and he cur-
rently hosts “Face the Nation,” a po-
litical program that airs on Sunday. In
his own words, he has been a “reporter
for 52 years.” He is the winner of sev-
en Emmy Awards. ‘ '

He spoke as a guestlecturer for the
journalism class entitled “Can Televi-
sion News Be Saved?” The class is
taught by Tom Mattesky, a visiting
professor and veteran of CBS News. ,

Shieﬂer told his audience that the
tactics of last year’s campaign were
like nothing he had seen in a long time.
While other recent campaigns were
waged through the medium of televi-
sion, focusing on debates and ads, this
one brought back something from the
distant past in theform of large public
events and rallies.

“For the ﬁrst time in 'a long time,
we saw crowds,” Schieffer said. “I
think crowds do count, and as we saw
in this election, they count a lot.”

. He said that the most successful
politicians and presidents are those

who know how to dominate the medi-
um of their time. Hecited examples of
Franklin Roosevelt’s use of radio and
John F. Kennedy’s mastery of televi-
sion with his live press conferences.
Effective presidents must know how
to reach and “charm” the public.

But this campaign moved beyond
the boundaries of these traditional me-
dia outlets by making use of rallies,

moving public speeches, the Internet

andgother more specialized media.
Schieffer emphasized that it was

not the media that won the election. J

Barack Obama’s success was that he
was able to charm his audience and
catch the “mood of the country,” he
said. ‘

“This election was not about the
media,” he said: “It was about change
in America. We were there just to
write it down.”

The campaign also focused on the
issues. “The ﬁrst thing that this elec-
tion proved is that people are interest-
ed in politics,” said Schieffer.

The success of Obama’s campaign
may haverelied on his ability to boost
the morale of the nation rather than his
reliance on mass media, but Schief-
fer does not discount the importance
of journalism for America’s political
success.

“You cannot have a democracy
without a free press,” he-said.

  Tuition goes up

With 4 percent hike, tuition will be over $3 7,000

By Queenie Wong
STAFF WRITER

While some students will beneﬁt
from Washington and Lee’s enhanced
ﬁnancial aid program next fall, others
might have to dig a little deeper into
their wallets to pay for the university’s
rising tuition, room and board rates.

Last week the university announced
a unanimous decision by the Board of
Trustees to raise undergraduate tuition
by about 4 percent, the lowest annual
increase in a decade, University Trea-
surer Steven McAllister said. The in-
crease brings the tuition to $37,990 for
the upcomingtacademic school year.
Room and board rates will increase 5
percent and'4 percent respectively.

The university will also expand
its ﬁnancial aid budget by about
$3.2 million, McAllister said. Added
onto the $31.3 million budget is a
$974,000 contingency fund to help
families whose ﬁnancial situations
have changed because of the global
ﬁnancial crisis. I

McAllister said that he hopes that
the new fund will be sufﬁcient enough
to address the anticipated increase in
ﬁnancial need brought on by the eco-
nomic recession and the current tu-
ition hike.

“The students who are here are
going to be effectively held harmless
relative to their change in need,” he
said. ’

But many students — including the
948 undergraduates who do not cur-

rently receive any aid from the univer-
sity — could still be hit by an additional
$1,465 next year.

“I guess it is going to be a relief, es-
pecially for my parents, not to have to
pay that tuition on top of other things
ﬁnancially,” said senior Sarah Ratzel.
She said she receives no ﬁnancial aid
from the school.

“I think [my parents will]
be kind of upset about it...
but the economy is so bad
that it is kind of expected
for it to go up. ”

Ellzabeth Starnes, first-year
 

About 801 students, less than half
of the enrolled undergraduate popula-
tion, currently receive some form of
ﬁnancial aid, according to the univer-
sity’s Common Data Set (CDS). The
CDS provides a standard format for.
supplying data to the higher educatf on
community for various surveys.

“It will deﬁnitely affect my parents.
I think they’ll be kind of upset about
it and I’m sure they’ll complain about
it a lot, but the economy is so bad that
it’s kind of expected for it to go up,”
said ﬁrst-year Elizabeth Stames.

Other students said they weren’t as
concerned about the increase.

“My parents are paying for my col-
lege [education] so it’s not really an
issue,” said freshman Reed Ehrhardt.
“This is an expensive school anyway.
What’s four more percent?”

The rising cost oftuition, room and
board is the university’s latest move
after trimming its annual non-person-
nel operating budget by roughly 4
percent to respond to its shrinking en-
dowment. The operating budget does

' not include salaries and beneﬁts.

Academic departments will have
to cut costs in discretionary spending.
This includes cuts in travel, entertain-
ment, printing and publication, library
acquisitions, postage and subscrip-
tions, McAllister said.

University President Kenneth Rus-
cio, in an e-mail distributed to faculty
and staff earlier this month, said that
the school is ready to deal with the
harsh economic conditions and the ef-
fect on its undergraduates.

“I am conﬁdent that all of us who
ﬁnd ourselves fortunate to be in an
institution that will fare better than
most during these times, stand ready
to provide the moral and emotional
support that some of our students may
need because of changes in their own
personal situations,” he said.

  
 

U.‘.""""‘A.,“-.lW LIBRARY

 

TC'.‘.l Pi LEE UNlVERSlTY

 '—.M£Ri‘l,(yA5242ﬁeB I

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

pinions

 

True beauty: only body parts deep?

In the age of Victoria is Secret and SI swimsuit babes, beauty is (sadly) all about parts

By Alelsha Butler
C 0 L U M N I ST

Let’s set a scene:
You ’re 14 years old and big
for your age. There have been
commercials for the Victorias
Secret Fashion Show on T V for
a few weeks now and you really
want to see it, but your mother
tells you that you can ’t watch it
without her there. “Why not?”
you think to yourself as the ﬁrst
of the ‘ glittering, luminescent
goddesses glides into view on
the runway. You ’ve been think-
ing a lot about your own rela-
tively ﬂat chest lately, but seeing
those lofty, slim, incandescent
women on the stage gives you
hope: your boobs will deﬁnitely
look like that someday, you just
need a little time.
Flash forward six years and
you ’re surrounded by a group of
guys salivating over the latest is-
sue of Sports Illustrated.‘ Swim-
suit Edition. You ’re no longer
big for your age but you ’re not
small either. A little wiser than
you were at 14, you look at the
pictures in the magazine and
have to ﬁght back a few tiny,
persistent little “I wishes... ”

and “tfonlys... ” Ifonly I went
to the gym more often, if only I
cut out sweets. I wish my boobs
/ butt/ waist/ arms / thighs / face
were bigger / smaller / trimmer
/ ﬁrmer / smoother / better. You
shake your head, sigh and keep
turning the pages...

German designer Woolfgang
Joop recently said that Heidi
Klum is “simply too heavy” to
be a runway model and that her
big smile is “commercial” and
not at all “avant-garde.” Heidi
Klum is 5’9.5” tall and weighs
roughly 130 pounds, give or take
a few, and she is in no way the
skinniest model on the runways.
Keeping those stats in mind,
now think about the fact that
the average American woman is
5’5” and weighs 150 pounds.

Our culture’s preoccupation
with size and weight leads to a
narrow, constricted deﬁnition of
beauty and creates an unattain-
able ideal for the girls and wom-
en whose lives are saturated with
images of airbrushed angels and
photoshopped fembots.

Just the other day one of my
housemates eloquently dubbed
the present body ideal as “tits-

on-a-stick.” The saddest part
about this cultural phenomenon
is that the advertising industry
plays upon people’s desire for
“perfection” by making it seem
as if anyone can achieve these
unrealistic looks and body types
if they just work hard enough,
buy the right products and take
the right pills.

The Dove Real Beauty Cam-
paign recently completed a mas-
sive national study analyzing
women’s relationships with the
word “beauty” and their percep-
tions of themselves. Surprising-
ly, the results of their research
revealed that while 90% of
American women feel that their
looks are average or above, only

Rather than starving ourselves and dying at

the gym in the hopes of being the hottest girl

at the party...we need to start broadening our

deﬁnition of beautiful.

The unreachable goal of
physical perfection leads to frus-
tration, competition and lowered
self esteem, and women break
themselves down into parts,
wishing for different legs, arms,
boobs, butt or thighs. Women
admit that pieces of themselves
are attractive, but you hardly
ever hear someone refer to her-
self as “beautiful” and really
mean it.

18% were willing to rate their
beauty as above average.

The aversion to the word
“beauty” seems to come from
several different sources, how-
ever. I surveyed a group of
guys about what the word
beautiful means to them, and I
was surprised that they did not
have immediate answers. They
skirted around actually calling
something beautiful; instead

‘An EC (anti) endorsement

Geiger is troubled by Richard Saum is EC candidacy

By Jacob Gelger
COLU M N I ST

In my four years“‘vvith’ the ‘

Phi, I’ve shied away from mak-
ing endorsements during Execu-
tive Committee elections-

For one thing, I don’t always
know all the candidates. For an-
other, I think the community re-
lies on us more for strong cover-
age of student government than
for endorsements.

But this year, there’s once
EC campaign that deserves our
attention.

I’m doing this for one sim-
ple reason: a student who was
forced off the EC in an unprec-
edented action is now running
again for office.

Richard Saum was elected
last spring as one of two sopho-
more representatives. But ear-
lier this winter, he was uncere-
moniously forced out of his post
when the other members of the
committee voted to ask him to
resign.

At the time, EC President

 

leave him well-placed to run
for president a year from now.
Saum is being challenged by
Bill Larson, a 2008 undergradu-
ate alumnus who is now a ﬁrst-
year law student.

Saum was accused of vio-
lating the White Book’s con-
ﬁdentiality rules. For those of
you unfamiliar with the White
Book, it essentially serves as the
constitution for W&L’s student
government, especially the EC.

“All information about an
Honor Violation or an Execu-
tive Committee hearing is high-
ly conﬁdential,” the White Book
says on page four.

The section on conﬁdentiali-
ty goes on to say that the EC can
take action against any student,
student witness, honor advocate
or EC member who violates the
rules.

Smaller violations by EC
members can be punished by a
temporary suspension from the
committee. Lesser punishments
were available, but Saum’s

campus deserves a leadership
role on the EC.

Saum, said that he learned a
lesson from his mistakes this
year, but I ﬁnd it diﬁicult to
believe if he’s only willing to
spend six weeks on the sidelines
before running for an EC lead-
ership position.

I spoke with an EC member
about Saum’s case. (Because
EC members are reluctant to
speak publicly about‘ each oth-
er, and because the investiga-
tion into Saum is covered by the
same conﬁdentiality standards
he was accused of violating, the
person was granted anonymity
in order to speak freely.)

“I ﬁnd it somewhat disturb-
ing that someone who had been
asked to leave by the EC would
run again for a leadership posi-
tion,” the source said.

I wholeheartedly agree.
Saum was willing to act contrite
and apologetic, but his cam-
paign signs have made no ref-
erence to his dismissal or to his

When asked about Saum’s

they mentioned qualities such
as attractiveness and hotness
as attributes that cause them
to take notice. One young man
even said that for him, beauty is
not really a term that applies to
people, but instead more to “art,
or something.” Another guy
said that the closer you get to

someone and the more involved »

you become, the more willing
or able you are to see them as
beautiful.

To me, this statement implies
a link between beauty and emo-
tion; as if, by admitting that you
ﬁnd someone truly beautiful you
admit a sentimental attachment
as well. .. and Heaven knows we
can’t admit weakness or attach-
ment to anyone.

I propose that here at Wash-
ington and Lee, where competi-
tion is the not-so-secret password
for success, we begin to redeﬁne
beauty. Rather than starving
ourselves and dying at the gym
in the hopes of being the hottest
girl at the party, instead of toss-
ing all of our segmented body
parts onto the mercy of the 1-10
scale, we need to start broaden-
ing our deﬁnition of beautiful.

We need to rebel against the
porcelain skeletoniprototype the
media tells us is best. I’m not
saying that Victoria’s Secret and
Sports Illustrated models aren’t
sexy (because they deﬁnitely are,
they’re the most adored models
in the world because they have
curves); I’m saying that they are
just one version of sexy.

There are so many other
types of beauty to be had in the
world. Isn’t it hot just to be alive
and vibrant and full of possibil-
ity and talent? Isn’t it beautiful
to feel your strong, healthy body
boogying across a dance ﬂoor?

We need to begin thinking
of beauty as multifaceted but
at the same time as a cohesive
whole. True beauty is emotion-
ally engaging, and maybe if men
and women saw one another as
beautiful, whole people instead
of as a hodgepodge of parts we
would be able to respect each
other a little more.

After all, that mythic, lami-
nated, 2D woman on a magazine
page is about as warm and com-
pelling as a sculpture behind
glass.

resignation, the source was un-

able, to reveal exac_tly,__w_hat the ,

charge was but did say the mat-
ter was extremely serious.

“As far as I know he’s the
ﬁrst person to ever be asked to
resign,” the EC source said. “So
you can extrapolate that what he
did was pretty egregious.”

I’m usually a fan of second
chances in life. But the honor
system doesn’t believe in sec-
ond chances. At W&L, it’s one
strike and you’re out — gone for
good.

If the honor system — and
the EC — hold students to a
one-strike policy, then the same
policy should apply to its mem-
bers.

Once you’ve lost your spot
on the committee, there should
be no going back.

Editors note.’ As with all
opinions articles, this article re-
ﬂects only the writer is opinions.
The Ring-tum Phi does not of-

Psychology in the Workplace -
Alumni-in-Residence Series
Open to ALL students

March 5: Ben Grigsby ’72

Over 30 years of experience in investment banking and
international capital marketsgcurrently principal of
Rockbridge Advisors, an advisory and consulting practice

March 12: Bernard Lewis ’74

Licensed clinical psychologist, specializing in forensic

psychology

March 19: Elizabeth Spencer ’99

Director of Hospital Services & Professional Education with
the Washington Regional Transplant Community

March 24: Dan Birdwhistell ’01

Founder and CEO of Bigsight Media Group, specializing in
creativity theory and human development

March 31: Michael Burns ’77

Director of the Intuitive Collaboration Department in Bell
Labs, inventing and developing web-based applications and

software tools

Individual Meetings: 10-12
Lunch: 12:15-1:15
Call 540-458-8595 for Reservations

‘WA 5 ll 1 N C} TC! N‘ A N I) E... F2  1.3 N l V  R S I TY

CAR,EiER@sSERVliCES

   

 

Richard Cleary Said he could conduct was apparently serious misconduct. ﬁcially endorse or oppose any ' .
. . enough to merit his total remov- If he insists on running, he candidate for EC, SJC or class P  B°““” Lcaderi Presldmt °_f Ch‘ 9
110i thlnk Of another _instance _ _  1  Omega, 2008; Shepherd Alliance ‘
. . . , al from ofﬁce. owes the students — who Wlll officer elections.
like this one in the school- s re- , , , , . Intern; was a member of the
Cent history. Frankly, I don t think a per- decide whether he s elected - a 1n Mock Trial team for two years
NOW Saum,S running for  who lhas xgiolited conﬁfdflrlr mgr: hco(p1(plete explznljitionl of L d h o .
Secretary’ a position that would ia ity ru es‘ a ou some 0 e w a e 1. wrong-an ow e s ea e1"S 1P _
most sensitive matters on our changed his behavior.
Kelbr Bun dy
V What energizes you about
I I taking on the responsibilities
ed   au ’ of campus leadership?
' “Possibility! The possibility to make
good things even greater, the possi— I‘
 e S a . bility of making positive changes,
‘y 0 and the possibility of growing and
~ V I becoming a different person than I was yesterday all inspire me. I
We don’t want to be con» wish them all luck. EC President W SJC Chairman think everyone has a desire to find their niche and to set them-

dgscendjng" No one at W&L Your candidates for EC Of. selves apart here, and taking on one of the many leadership roles at

is so stupid they have to be ﬁcers are listed to the right. James Dick Crighton Allen 7 W&L Offers 3 W3)’ to ‘*0 Just that _

told about the virtues ‘of vot- or course, we would be Eric Hoffman What has beer} one of tile“ mést rewarding as-

ing.i . amiss not to remind you the Kenneth Hopkins S.ICSecretar_v .- Peas Bf 1eade‘”5h1P at W&L- Seelflg the gTea'‘1mP*{°'‘lhat

’ So we won’t belabor the SJC are also holding elections Denis O’Leary 1:ad’3IrSh1P 3ttV:’h&L Can have 0“ tt1}1]€tC°mm“t“1t{}v*‘}11‘Ca‘: h3PP1(1i>’:a>’ .
point. Instead, we’ll just" for their next year’s oﬂicers. John Twomey Caitlin Cottingham  y::,sn:g0 :5 S:nf:_::::nn mid C1ar}::;eOtru1:zS1:;:1%n:Idavx:hate£
say that we’re pretty excited Your candidates for SJC oi‘ﬁ- Matt Hutton ’ . ,,
‘ - . 1 . means to serve—as a volunteer, as a leader, and as a sister.

about having the most packed cers are also tothe right. I EC Vice President ‘ Any Words of advice for those who follow? «Learn

and Varied ﬁeld of candldates Congratulations to Cngh' to say no and to respect your own boundaries! When you love the

for the EC Ofﬁcefshipﬁ in re‘  (Weill go ahead and can Scott Cemorlno work that you do, it becomes so hard to say no, and Consequently,

cent memory. S , that race), and best of luck to Grant Russell you end up biting off more than you can chew. just because you

It seems like a lot of our all the candidates. can’t do everything all of the time doesn’t mean that you’re any less I

best and brightest are down- W&L, we’ll see you at the‘ EC Secretary of a person!” V

right enthusiastic. about hav- polls! I - p 4, Tuesdavs with Leadership“

mg the most precious respon- Lindsay Grant 1

sibilities at W&L. Bill Laurson Servant Lea dershl p

That’s awesome, and we Richard Saum l 2:1 5 and 6:30 PM, Room 2.14 Elrod Commons
' Explore Robert Greenleafs theory of serving first and the
ten characteristics that best contribute to effective service. .\
I

 

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0

3

 

opinions

Pop the frat bubble

If your only male friends are in your house, that is sad

By Di_andra Spicak
c 0 L U M N I s T

Let’s talk Greek. More spe-
ciﬁcally, let’s talk student rela-
tions.

We all know of (and most of
us accept) the strong Greek sys-
tem at Washington and Lee. As
a new member myself, I know
I’m contributing to the huge
Greek population. Yet, even as
a recent addition to a sorority, I
still have kept my eyes open as
to what “pledging” has done to
my freshman class.

No, I’m not complaining
about pledgeship, and no, I’m
not complaining about fratemi-
ties and sororities.

But by keeping my eyes open,
I have noticed now (with pledg-
ing reaching the home stretch)
that the freshmen boys have be-
gun to hang out in groups based
on their frats. What is most
startling is the demolishment of
friendships created before join-
ing a certain Greek organization
— or, what I like to call “the frat
bubble.”

.Essentially, the frat bubble
is the lack of inter-fraternity

relations. It seems that because
of the large number of frats on
campus (along with a mix of
smaller pledge classes per frat,
pledging, and the like), the op-
tion to befriend others in dif-
ferent Greek organizations gets
overlooked.

And, it’s not so much as
befriending others in different

these rivalries? Is it because cer-
tain frats rush the same guys and
thus, feel embittered if a certain
individual pledges differently
than expected?

The biggest problem, it
seems, is the large number of
frats — perhaps W&L would
function better with a smaller
number of frats.

What fuels these [frat] rivalries?...T he big-

gest problem, it seems, is the large number
of frats — perhaps. W&L would function better

with a smaller number of frats.

 

frats as it is maintaining friend-
ships from different frats. Varied
discussions with others have led
to conclusions that by joining
a frat, a male tends to reinvent
himself ~ or become so attached
to the frat that he does not tear
himself away from his brothers.

Also, one must factor in the
bitterness some frats bear to-
wards other frats. What ﬁiels

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

A _ OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS) & LIFE mm‘

SPORTS EDITORL

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY .

THE RING-’I‘UM PHI.

and alumni. Our goal is to

Through our reporting,

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the misston of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty, parents

affecting campus life and hold leaders accountable.

discussions that lead to discovering information
that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS DURING
THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR. THE RING-
TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA BOARD,
BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT. QUESTIONS OR
CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI SHOULD BE ADDRESSED
TO THE EDITORS AT PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE

MEDIA BOARD AT MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.
MEDIA BOARD IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-
RUN EDITORIAL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING
WITH ALL MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON
8: LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH. LETTERS
AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT
THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI STAFF.
THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT COURT
DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.

V THE RING—TUM PHI
 UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
_ FAX: (540) 458~4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

ALLISON OHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
convaasucunmr
CELESTE I”
CRUZ-GARANDANG
WILLDORRANCE

ALEISHA BUTLER
JEAN CHAPMAN
KEVIN CORN
MEGAN DAILY
ABEL DELGADO
NEVILLE FDGARTY
JACOB GEIGER
KATIE HATFIELD
HANK NATHAN
DIANDRA SPICAK
BROOKE SUTHERLAND
VALAREE TANG
QUEENIE WONG
RUSS WEEMS

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK-MOORE
ROB GEORGE

look deeper into news

we aspire to spark

THE L

In so far as what I’ve wit-
nessed as a srat new member,
the relations between different
sororities are pretty strong — and
deﬁnitely friendlier than that
between different frats. Could
this be attributed to the rotat-
ing dinners at different houses?
Or can this be attributed to the
small number of srats on cam-
pus? I have no idea — remember,

I’m still a new member. What I
glean of srat-relations could be
all wrong.

But it does seem easier for

different sororities to get along

better with their counterparts.

Activities that push fraterni-
ties to interact with other frats
may strengthen the bonds be-
tween each organization, and
push inter-frat relations in the
direction of popping the frat
bubble. I’m not asking for there
to be a decrease In the number
of frats, nor am I asking that
pledgeship be thrown out.

Instead, why not try stepping
out of the comfort zone?

Pop the frat bubble, I dare
you.

Rise above petty rivalries and
bitter sentiments ~ brotherhood
does not have to be conﬁned
just to your fraternity. Hang
out outside of parties, establish
bonds of friendship that do not
have certain Greek letters bound
to them, continue friendships
started before pledging and ini-
tiation.

Greek life is huge here, but
don’t let Greek life dictate life.

32/Ida; 4 Razatm
PEDAL CAR 'l)1ni:_R & TIN Tor Cart.

Order I‘rom our complete menu
Or Join usjlor one afoot .<t.I;I, FOL” (RN EA T Buffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Blzitetwiiiz Crab Legs 5pm-éiiipm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5;>m~l0pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast Iiamepm
Friday 8: Saturday Late Night Ereakfasi Bar iiipmﬂam
Bteakfasi Bar Iv’ Bays 3 Week Sam-I lam
iiiaily Hot Country Bar iiazniopm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar i‘iam—i0pm

(ﬁnder BreaI<_f2ist 24 .I‘I{_ii.1.I‘S 3 day, 7 days a w::el<!

Hattie Crzoiied Meats & Soriiizern Ifrispiiality.-’
Located at
III II RIIII MO

I-31 & I-64. Exit‘ 195, 2526 North I..eeIiwy., l,exingi<in, VA

54Il~«463~3478

évreat food & a great coiizction of
Antique Pedal Cars 6: Tie Toys?

  

FREE BOOK

“Freedom”
by Patrick Henry

at juanjustice.com

' Good Read

  

' THE RED HEN
invites you to enjoy M

 TWILIGHT DINIl\IG 

l;'Monday through Thursday evenings until 6:30 pm.
enjoy three courses of inspired Shenandoah cuisine for $35
reservations strongly recommended

11 E. Washington Street Lexington 540-464-4401
www.redhenlex.com
OPEN Mon. - F?‘I.f0?‘ lunch 6* dinner Saturday dinner 8 Sunday brunch

 

Mr. N o-Responsibility

goes to Washington

Abel Delgado decries Obama ’s
first joint congressional address

By Abel Delgado
c 0 L u M N I s T

Inyhis ﬁrst address to a joint session of Congress, President
Obama once again showed his mastery of the teleprompter, his
disregardxfor the importance of details, and his impressive abil-
ity to minimize obvious contradictions between his rhetoric and
reality.

Apparently the “Era of Responsibility” involves Americans
expanding the government’s list of responsibilities, and hoping
government ofﬁcials fulﬁll those responsibilities despite all the
evidence pointing to them doing the contrary.

In an effort not to sound as gloomy as he and his adminis-
tration has been accused of sounding the past few weeks, the
President went from pointedly describing a dreadful present,
with the word “crisis” mentioned in the third sentence and
constant mentions of the words “deﬁcit” and “recession,” to
promising a rosy future with clean energy, the world’s highest
graduation rate, and even a cure for cancer. How can anyone
argue with that?

Of course, I would absolutely love a car that doesn’t runion
a gas, for my brother to get a free college education, and not
tojhave_ to worry about anyone in my family suffering from
cancer.

I would also love to know how exactly this is all going to

happen and who exactly will pay for it?
The sad truth isthese wonderful promises will probably not

I ’m usually not the one to be pessimis-
tic in the face of Americans dreaming...
But how on earth can we call ourselves
responsible when we are dreaming at the

cost of generatiosn to come?
 

be kept but our generation, and our children’s generation will
be saddled with the costs of government expansion.

I’m usually not the one to be pessimistic in the face Ameri-
cans dreaming of achieving great feats. But how on earth can
we call ourselves responsible when we are dreaming at the cost
of generations to come?

“The cost of inaction” is far greater, the President says.

That is true as long as we are acting correctly. But if our
choice is between inaction and acting incorrectly, then inaction
would be much cheaper.

If we did such simple things as have Congressmen read over
gargantuan spending bills before voting for them, and posting
the bills online before they come up for vote, an idea origi-
nally advocated but subsequently ignored by our transparent
leaders, I’d be much more inclined to believe we were going
to act correctly instead of just throwing money we don’t have
at problems we need more speciﬁc solutions for. I still don’t
know what the speciﬁcs of Obama’s solutions are after sitting
through over ﬁfty minutes of applause lines.

It’s not that I refuse to trust our President. It’s that I cannot
bring myself to take his calls for responsibility seriously. Not
when his mortgage bailout would punish the responsible 92%
of homeowners, many of whom are indeed struggling, for pay-
ing their mortgages on time and reward those who moved into
homes they couldn’t afford.

Not when he talks about the responsibility we have to place
a “market-based cap on carbon pollution,” and doesn’t even
mention nuclear energy, the most realistic non-carbon produc-
ing energy source we have.

Not when he surrounds himself with people who fail to act
responsibly in their personal ﬁnancial matters and fail to see
how their grim public comments make the stock market nose
dive on a regular basis. ‘

Presidents Obama’s speech is being praised as the most ex-
pansive agenda in decades. Funny how not even his most ardent
supporters are calling it the most responsible.

 

Write for
the Phi.

Photographers, designers
and copy editors also needed.
Contact phi@wlu.edu

5r"ts&Iife S
Bands battle it out

Studentbands perform in annual “Battle  on Saturday; Lalai Damas win

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

KEVIN REMINGTON / for W&L
TOP: Robert Wason, Michael Morella and Will Stewart are three members of Rikki Tikki Tavi, the folk rock band that placed second in this year’s .
Battle of the Bands on Saturday night in Doremus Gym. The Lalai Damas won first place for the second year in a row, and The Velva Bar Lights placed
third.

B01TOM: CJ Boyd and Will Stewart of Agent Flynn face off.

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 2,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 5

 

arts&|ife

Oil, mindbugs and books

Third SSA research conference hits diverse topics

By Katle Hatﬂeld
surr wansn

Washington and Lee hosted
the “Science, Society and the
Arts” conference on Friday.

This is the third year that
W&L has hosted the undergradu-
ate and law student-based re-
search conference, and this year
proved to be just as successful as
it has been in the past.

Those participating in the
conference gave panel presenta-
tions of their own research papers
covering a wide variety of top-
ics, conducted poster sessions,
gathered among faculty for book
discussions, showed art and gave
demonstrations of theater, dance
and music.

All undergraduate classes
were suspended in order to both
boost attendance and encourage
students to present. Though all
students were able to present,
many juniors and seniors in
particular took the opportunity
to present their theses.

“I thought it was a great op-
portunity for students to interact
with each other academically
outside of the classroom,” said
Mathew O’Sullivan.,

O’Sullivan, who presented on
China and the European Union’s
manipulation of oil pipelines to
gain geopolitical power in their

respective regions, was just
one of many student presenters
during the conference that took
place in Various locations across
campus.

As an added treat to the con-
ference, students and faculty
were invited to dine in Evans
Dining Hall and hear the keynote
address. This year’s keynote
speaker was Dr. Brian Nosek,

Nosek is also the co-founder
and director of Project Implicit,
a virtual lab for research in social
and behavioral science and more
speciﬁcally for implicit social
cognition.

To those who wanted to be
involved without presenting
an original research or creative
work, there was also the oppor-
tunity to be involved in a book

“I thought it was a great opportunity for

students to interact with each other aca-

demically outside of the classroom. ’

Matthew 0’Sullivan, presenter

I

an associate professor of psy-
chology at the University of
Virginia.

Dr. Nosek, who received his
Ph.D in Psychology from Yale
University, spoke on the topic of
“mindbugs,” or the ways people
ﬁlter their perceptions of stimuli
in their environment to develop
biases, whether consciously or
subconsciously.

Among other things, Dr.

colloquium reading. Like a book
club of sorts, members of the
W&L community were invited to
read one of twenty—seven books
and then participate in a round
table discussion

The book selections were
diverse in topics. Some of the
selections that were included
were “The Way of the Cham-
pion” which discussed tips and
goals for athletes by sports psy-

chologist Dr. Jerry Lynch and
“The Mind-Body Problem,” a
coming-of—age novel by Rebecca
Goldstein.

“I deﬁnitely would do it again!
It’s a great way to meet people
and it’s nice to do something like
that when it isn’t required for a
class,” said Jessica Strait who
participated in the “Mind-Body
Problem” discussion. “It was a
rewarding experience.”

“I got to meet mostly other
athletes and faculty members
and hear their discussions,”
said Megan Daily, a participant
in the “Way of the Champion”
reading.

The ﬁrst conference was held
in 2004 and similarly attracted
a wide gamut of participants
from the W&L community who
discussed such topics as geology,
politics, anthropology, history
and management. That year, over
140 people attended the luncheon
with the keynote speaker, re-
nowned physicist and novelist,
Alan Lightman.

Crossword of the week

Washington... Washington... by Neville L. Fogarty

Head over to ringtumphicrosswordblogspotcom to save children, but not the British children.

Across

I Took on

6 Type of party

10 "Glengarry __

Ross"

1.4 Related maternally
I5 Frau's partner

16 Greek liqueur

17 Ed of "Lou Grant"
18 Crucifix inscription
19 Bern's river

20 WASHINGTON...
22 WASHINGTON...
24 _ Tome

25 New Testament idea

foreshadowed in the
Old Testament

27 Watson or
Thompson of "Harry
Potter" films

29 Mouselike animal

30 "Reduce, _,
recycle"

. 34 Ancient Andean

36 Oread who loved her
own voice

38 Role for Sally -Fi.eld
or Dame Maggie
Smith

39 WASHINGTON...

142 WASHINGTON...

44 Citrus drink

45 2005 film "___
Flux"

47 Option offered by
Howie Mandel

48 James of "Psych"
50 Charged particles

52 Jodie F oster‘s alma
mater

55 Feature of some bars

58 Score for Nadia
Comaneci

59 WASHINGTON...

62 WASHINGTON...

64 LaBeouf of
"Transformers"

65 Los __ de los
Muertos

67 F in music?

68 Look like a wolf‘?

69 Marine eagle

 

 

 

 

1 2 3 4 5 o 7 3 9 10 11. 12 13
14 I5 16
17 18 19
20 21
29
36
41
44 45 46
48 49 To
5 56 57 58

62 63
64 65 66 67
68 e9 70
71 72 73

70 Facebook

10 Attribute of Lenin or 41

application "Pieces Chekhov 43
Of ___" I 1 Molokai meal
71 Effortless I2 Poet Pound 46
72 Super Smash Bros. 13 Coward of note?
Ch0iC€ 21 Blitz 49
73 Uses eBay, perhaps 23 Revolted 51
Down . . 26 _g_ support 53
1 Vehicle that doesn't 28 Sarita , = 54
. automatically Cahfomla 56
qualify for the HOV 31 One-Sided 57
lane 32 Good name for a 59
2 Clothing line? la“’Y€r‘? 60
3 Like a Settlers of 33 >Lt.'S inferior. in the
Catan gameboard Navy 61
4 French summers 35 "Hamid and the 63
5 "Team America: Pumle —~—~—"
World Police" word 37 §3‘-“t J_am°S'
6 Japanese religion ' lV_lC;l\,:[1“an and 66
7 Kind of strength Wife constar
8 Ai tmonitor 39 "Why Can't We Be
IP01" . u
abbrv Friends? band

40 Courtroom

9 I - .
n need Ofa affirmation

scrubbing

Gardener's purchase
What every kiss
begins with

They had conquests
all over Europe
Bee colony
Gallows loops
Soup choice
Comes in

Ilumorist Nash
Drops the ball
Man, for one
Perlman of
"Matilda"
Contends

Question Anderson
Cooper once asked:
"Who is the ?"

Fury

If your Vagina,

could speak

Performances of “The Vagina
Monologues ” engage crowd with
thoughts on women 3* issues

By Jean Chapman
surr wrmsn

“The Vagina Monologues,” presented by the Women’s
Law Student Organization last week, drew sold-out crowds
to witness one of the most unique theatrical works of this
century.

Watching “The Vagina Monologues” is an experience like
no other: it is awkward, it is unsettling, it is laugh-out—loud
hilarious and it is moving.

“The Vagina Monologues,” however, is not just about the
audience. The monologues were presented by a nation-wide
organization called V-Day, which uses performances of Eve
Ensler’s award-winning work to promote awareness and raise
money in order to prevent violence against women.

Eve Ensler, author of “The Vagina Monologues,” is also
the founder of the V-Day movement. Each year, performances
of the monologues, typically arranged somewhere in the
vicinity of Valentine’s Day, draw in millions of dollars, and
the performance here on the campus of Washington and Lee
certainly did its part.

Both performances on Wednesday and Friday were sold‘
out, and the Women’s Law Student Organization raised even
more money by rafﬂing items donated by local organizations
and businesses. .

Each year, V-Day chooses one national or international
cause to which all the money raised by the nation-wide
performance of Eve Ensler’s work. This year, the V-Day
movement’s international spotlight falls on the women and
girls of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where rape
is being used as a weapon of torture and fear on thousands of
women and children.

Particularly in the culture of the nation, victims afterwards
suffer from stigma and ostracism if they were to speak out
against the violence.

Unicef, as well as the UN, are partnered with V-Day to
raise awareness of this ongoing atrocity and get resources and
aid into the area to help victims and prevent ongoing violence
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

“The Vagina Monologues” represent the multi—faceted
nature of the V-Day movement. V-Day proclaims that it is a

For any men in the audience, “The
Vagina Monologues " must have been
somewhat unsettling but certainly en-

lightening.

demand that rape, incest, battery, genital mutilation and sexual
slavery must end around the world. It is also a vision in which
women everywhere can live safely and freely, but perhaps
most importantly it is a spirit, a belief that women should live,
create and thrive rather than survive or suffer.

This belief is conveyed not only in the more poignant

segments of “The Vagina Monologues” but also in the more >

humorous.

Drawing from approximately 200 interviews of
women from every age, race, region and ethnicity, “The
Vagina Monologues” shows the full spectrum of female
experience.

For any men in the audience, “The Vagina Monologues”
must have been somewhat unsettling but certainly enlightening.
In one of the ﬁrst monologues, women share the answers to
the burning, yet revealing questions of “If your Vagina got
dressed, what would it wear?” and “If your vagina could
speak, what would it say?” (the most popular answer to the
latter being “SLOW DOWN.”) Later, the audience sees the
perspective of a woman over the age of 65 and a girl at the
age of 6.

Though every individual who performed a segment of the
monologues gave a stunning performance, three monologues
stole the show: Jenna Worsham in “The Vagina Workshop,”
Tabitha King in “My Vagina Was My Village” and Jen Lake
in “The Woman who Loved to Make Vaginas Happy.” Though
the ﬁrst and last of these three were fall-out-of-your-chair
funny, the second was the poignant and saddcning story of one
woman from Bosnia who was raped during wartime.

The audience on Friday night was nothing if not responsive.
Though the DuPont theater was packed, the audience warmed
up to each other and to the monologues, cheering, laughing
and falling into revered silence as the monologues twisted
and turned through every emotion. -

Worsham, a junior, commented that the campus received
“The Vagina Monologues”-well, so much so that she hopes
they may be performed again this year.

 

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

sports

 

O
) u o 0 o o o
, Men s team ﬁnishes third while Lady Generals earn ﬁrst place at conference championship F rzday
By Kevin Corn time. “We were in third going into
STAFF WRITER the last three events,” commented
s r _ Doornbos. “We did well in the shot
On rrrdayt rhe Waehrngren and put, rocked the 5,000 and brought
Lee rnenis and Wernenis rndeer home the 4x400 relay to win. I run
rrnek reams were in Lynehburg’ the last leg of the 4x400 relay and
V3‘? at Lrberry Unrvererry rer the it was an incredible race. Every-
ODAC rndeer Traek Charnpr°n' one was crowded around the track
ships. The men ﬁnished third with screaming and yelhrrgu
76 pernrsr but were only 3 heart’ For the men, the distance med- Q
erenkrng rwr’ Pernrs away rrorn ley relay team of seniors Chip Mc-
second. Meanwhile, the women Coy and Michael Welsh and soph_
reek home the eharnprenehre hne omores Davis Franklin and Jack
for the ﬁrst time in W&L’s history Ivy ran a school and championship
nnergarnering r20 points‘ meet record time of 10:39.21 to
The two teams together pro- Claim ﬁrst place '
duced stellar results in the form of “It felt great to beat Lynoh_
20 elreehrerenee eharnprenshrpsr burg in the distance medley relay
seven eenrerenee eharnpr°nShrpS> and to break their previous ODAC “ _ _
‘W0 SC1}°°“€°°‘dS and ‘me Chm" meet record in the event,” reported It felt great to beat Lynchburg in the distance
pronship meet record. Lastly, head Franklhr “They usually have a t .
wornenis Coach Nate Hoey was Very successful distance program,    [0    
named ODAC Coach of the Year. and I think we made a statement _
The women were led by senior with our perforrnancet Mlehael meet record in the event. They usually have a very
Elizabeth  WhO ﬁnished ﬁrst Welshss tremendous effort in the t t
in both the 800 meters and the 1600 meter leg was the main ree_ successful distance program, and I think we made a
mile with times of 2:20.92 and f vs _ _ ,
5:10.59, respectively. In the 5,000 Sonsghlfrﬁrnrsrrecesiett Giordano statement with our performance. Michael Welsh S
meters, Webb ﬁnished second after 1 d d ~ th 200 t ,
c,,,nl,lcm,g the race in a time of gtfeere rjﬁﬁﬁhg  ae time  tremendous eﬂort in the I 600 meter leg was the
18:24.54. Webb was also named h k- t th h l _ . ,, l
the ODAC Farm Bureau Scho1ar- 00:31.i;1lgte1'}i):aI'(::0Glf)Ifd:i:10i‘(2:n:lT€ "W" ’e"S0”f0” 0”’ Success’ 2 3
Athlete of the Year for the second 55 meters rrra time of 6_64 to take
eeneeeunve year‘ third. Giordano was then joined
senior Jessica Shaw ﬁnished by Mccoy junior Ryan Castle and Davis Franklin, sophomore track runner
nrsr in the 5>000 rnerers after ﬁrst-year Tyler Grant on the 4x400
eressing the ﬁnish hhe in a time meter relay team that grabbed third
or rererrz‘ She was reurrh rn the after ﬁnishing in a time of3:32.38.
rnne Wnh 2‘ rhne or 513041’ and Castle also took second in the high
ran with the winning team of se- jump at l_90 meters.
nior Tara Hildenbrand, S0pl'l01’I10I'€ Junlor Billy Billington excelled
Katherine Fenwrck and ﬁrst-year in the shot put alter wlrmlrlg ﬁrst
Casey Ernstes, 1n the distance med- with a throw of 1390 meters He
ley relay team that ﬁnished ﬁrst in then went on to the weight throw
3 rhne or 1332213" where he ﬁnished second after a
Another Senior leading the Gen’ toss of 15.67 meters. Billington
erals to victory was Stacy Doorn- was also named the ODAC Farm
hes who reaped hne a hrsepraee Bureau Scholar Athlete of the Year
ﬁnish in the long jump after clear- award
ing a distance of 5.32 meters. She Meanwhile, senior Vance Berry
also ran the 400 meters in a time and Welsh rounded out the top ﬁn_
Ol 60.61 t0 take fourth 11112116 CVCIII. lshes  their runs in the 5,000
In the 55 meter hurdles Doornbos meters Berry crossed the ﬁnish 

again ﬁnished fourth with a time of
8.79. Doornbos joined juniors Sal-
lie Armstrong and Maggie Suther-
land and ﬁrst-year Natalie Stier, on
the 4x400 meter relay that ﬁnished
third after completing the race in a
time of4:08.83.

Other top performances in-
cluded senior*Becca Taylor’s third
place ﬁnish in the mile in a time of
5:27.70. Sutherland’s leap of 1.53
meters in the high jump was good
enough for second place, and she
then took fourth place in the triple
jump after leaping 10.37 meters.
In the shot put, Armstrong ﬁnished
third after throwing 10.64 meters.
Meanwhile, senior Grace Andrews
took second in the weight throw af-
ter a toss of 1385 meters.

The meet was close the entire

line in a time of 15:34.19 to place
second, while Welsh ﬁnished soon
after in third place with a time of
15:44.10.

After the meet, Billington com-
mented on the team’s ﬁnish, “It felt
great to have a strong team perfor-
mance at ODACS but was frustrat-
ing to ﬁnish only two points out
of second place. We had a lot of
people step up and perform better
than we were anticipating.”

Both the men’s and women’s
W&L teams return to action this
Saturday as they compete in the
Virginia Tech Last Chance Meet
beginning at 10:00 a.m.

 

 

MICHAEL KEENAN / Guest Photographer

Junlor Sallie Armstrong hands the baton off to fellow junior Maggie Sutherland in the 4x400 meter .‘
relay at the ODAC championships Friday. The Generals finished third in this event enroute to winning Q
the conference crown.

Men’s lacrosse starts off season 2-O

Picked 3rd in ODAC preseason poll, Generals beat Mary Washington 6-5 and Colorado 9-7

By llllegan Daily
STAFF warren

The Washington and Lee’s men
lacrosse team improved to 2-0 on the
year, with a 9-7 victory over Colorado
College Saturday. This year’s team has
high expectations for the season.

Last year the Generals went 9-6
and posted a 5-1 conference record
but ended up losing in the ﬁrst round
of the ODAC tournament to Virginia
Wesleyan. The team returns seven
starters from last year including senior
midﬁelder Harry St. John, a preseason
honorable mention All-American.

In the annual preseason ODAC
coaching poll W&L was picked third
behind Roanoke and Lynchburg.

~ Senior goalkeeper Connor Locke
said about this team, “We have a strong
group of 10 seniors, all with signiﬁcant
playing experience; however, there is a
lot to prove.” ’

In the men’s ﬁrst game of the season

against Mary Washington Wednesday,
they used a ﬁrst half six-goal run to
win the game, 6-5. Locke tallied ﬁve
saves on the say. Senior attackman Seth
Fishman, sophomore midﬁelder Drew
Koeneman and St. John all ﬁnished
with two goals in the victory. Koene-

Generals lost 11-15. But this year, play-
ing on the new Wilson Field, the Gen-
erals had an explosive offensive ﬁrst
half and played good enough defense
to contain the Colorado Tigers.

In the ﬁrst few minutes of Satur-
day’s game, it appeared to be an offen-

“We have a strong group of I 0 seniors, all with sig-

niﬁcant playing experience; however, there is a lot to

prove. ”

Connor Locke, senior goalkeeper

man, senior captain midﬁelder Tim
Skeen and junior attackman Will Kei-
gler each registered an assist as well.
W&L outshot the Eagles 28-20 but
trailed in ground balls, 23-27.
Last year at Colorado College, the

sive showdown. The Generals traded
goals with Colorado and the score was
locked at two apiece seven minutes into
the contest. But then W&L reeled off
ﬁve consecutive goals to push the score
to 7-2 at the end of the half. Junior at-

tackman Will Keigler contributed two
goals during the Generals’ run.

W&L gained an 8-3 advantage in
the third period by a Skeen goal off a
St. John assist. Down ﬁve, Colorado
managed to mount the start of a come-
back. The Tigers went on a 3-0 run
in the third to cut the Generals’ lead
to two. However, with three minutes
to play, W&L sophomore attackman
Spence Daw scored off an assist from
sophomore midﬁelder Drew Koene-
man, which once again established the
Generals’ control.

Locke was able to provide a total of
seven key saves in goal for the Gener-
als. Colorado’s sophomore goaltender
Scott MacArthur blocked 11 shots on
the day.

In the second half the Tigers made a
run, but the General’s were able to keep
a two-point edge with a ﬁnal score of
9-7.

The home team led Colorado in
shots, 35-22, and ground balls, 30-26.

W&L next returns to, action to im-
prove upon their 2-0 record, on Wednes-
day when DeSales comes to Lexington
for a 5:00 p.m. game. The Generals
then round out the week ahead with
a 1:00 p.m. bout with Washington on
Saturday in Chestertown, Md.

    

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 2,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

 

sports

Men’s tennis Wins again

Generals’ beat Salisbury in close match, roll over Bridgewater

By Brooke Sutherland
surr warren

The Washington and Lee men’s ten-
nis team pulled down two solid victories
in a double header against Salisbury and
Bridgewater Saturday. The Generals
defeated Salisbury 5-4 and knocked off
Bridgewater 8-1.

The day began with a tough
morning match-up against 23rd ranked
Division III Salisbury, whom the 19th
ranked Generals defeated 5-4 last year.

“Going into this match, I
knew they would have revenge on their
minds,” said head coach David Detwil-

» er. “They are always good and always

vocal. They create a good atmosphere.
I’m just glad it was a home turf instead
of a visiting turf.”

The usual quietness of tennis match-
es was nowhere to be found as the W&L
fans made a strong showing even with
the early 9 a.m. start time. Even senior
captain James McCardell’s dog made it
out to cheer on the Generals.

W&L grabbed an early lead in dou- ~

bles with wins at the number two and
three spots. Junior Brent Meyers and
ﬁrst-year Jonathan Gaffney defeated
Salisbury’s team of ﬁrst-year Daniel
Bamas and sophomore Andrew Nottage
9-7 in the number two doubles spot.
First-year Jeremy Becht and junior Alex
Brooke defeated sophomore David Lu-
pinetti and junior Marcus Robinson 8-2
in the number 3 doubles spot. McCa-
rdell and sophomore Tim Watson lost to
juniors Evan Thomas and Scott Burtz-
laff in number one doubles, 8-5.

Up 2-1, the Generals headed into
singles play. After a long, tough three-
set match, McCardell fell to Burtzlaff 6-
7 (6-8), 6-1, 6-2 in number one singles.
The second singles line proved another

toughumatch as Gaffney fell 6-3, 6-1
to Thomas. Meyers countered, how-
ever, defeating Salisbury’s Lupinetti at
the number three singles spot 7-5, 6-
4. Becht fell to Barnas 6-3, 3-6, 6-2 at
number four singles, but ﬁrst-year Ben
Fass then went on to an easy 6-3, 6-1
victory over Nottage at the number ﬁve
spot.

The match score was now tied at 4-
4 and the Generals’ victory was in the
hands of ﬁrst-year number six singles
player Michael Freeman. With all eyes
watching, Freeman gritted his teeth
and despite some minor net disputes,
smoothly delivered a 6-2, 6-4 victory
over senior Sasha Felikson.

“This was our ﬁrst true test in D-III,”
Detwiler said. “We played a D-I school
over Feb break when we played F urman
and we did well, but this match really
shows us where we stand in D—III. I’m
really happy with our doubles play and
our singles.”

Detwiler speciﬁcally cited the play
of Meyers and Fass in singles.

“Meyers had a hard fought match
that really showed his maturity,” he
said. “Fass just played really solid and
didn’t have a lot of errors, which is what
we really needed.”

“I felt like I was a little tight at ﬁrst,”

Fass said. “But I ended up playing well.
I’m pretty happy with how I played.”
' The elation over the victory was
short-lived, however, as play against
Bridgewater began immediately after
the conclusion of the match against
Salisbury.

Two matches in one day can be a real
grind, but Detwiler had no doubts about
his team’s endurance heading into the
next match.

“The NCAA limits us to 20 play dates
so we really have to double up in order

to play more matches,” Detwiler said.
“It can be tough on the guys that have
to play both singles and doubles in both
matches, but I feel like we’re in good
enough shape to handle two matches.”

Added Fass: “I feel like our teams
are in really good shape, all thanks to
[assistant coach] Pristach.”

The Generals made a clean sweep
of the doubles. Watson and McCa-
rdell set the tone with an 8-4 win over
Bridgewater’s seniors Ryan Radke and
Brian Remsch in number one doubles.
Gaffney and Meyers followed with an
8-2 victory over junior Chris Radke and
sophomore Brad DeWitt on the second
line. Brooke and Becht closed out the
Generals’ domination, taking the num-
ber three doubles match 8-2 over sopho-
more Teddy Callow and senior Andre
Thornton. ‘

In singles, the Generals were equal-
ly as strong. Gaffney defeated Ryan
Radke 6-3, 6-4 in number two singles
while Becht defeated Chris Radke 6-2,
6-1 at number three. Freeman pulled
off an easy 6-2, 6-1 victory over Cal-
low for number four singles. First-year
Brian Roberts took 6-0, 6-4 victory
over DeWitt at the ﬁfth spot, followed
by Brooke’s 6-3, 6-2 victory over ﬁrst-
yearBrent Floyd in the number six spot.
The Generals’ only loss came in the top
singles match where McCardell suffered
from cramping issues and lost 6-4, 5-7,
10-7 to Remsch.

_ “Both of these wins were really im-
poitant for our conﬁdence,” said Detwil-
er. “A win against Salisbury really gives
us a boost and Bridgewater is deﬁnitely
one of our tougher ODAC opponents
we’ll face all year.”

W&L is now 4-1 overall and 3-0 in
ODAC play.

Season over

Women ’s basketball falls to Bridgewater in playoffs

By Russ Weems
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
basketball team faced Bridgewater
this Thursday in the first round of the
ODAC Tournament. W&L came up
short, losing the game, 65-77. The Gen-
erals came in as the ﬁfth seed to face the
fourth-seeded Eagles in the Salem Civic
Center. It was the second meeting of the
two teams in a week.

W&L and Bridgewater tangled last
Saturday, with Bridgewater getting
the best of the Generals in a close 76-
72 contest. In the game, the Generals
forced 27 turnovers but allowed the
Eagles to shoot nearly 60 percent from
the ﬁeld. W&L got a shot a revenge on
Thursday.

The game started with neither team
able to gain a sizeable advantage. After
a jumper by sophomore center Felice
Herman with 14:05 to play in the ﬁrst
half, the game was tied up at eight.

After that point, Bridgewater staged
the ﬁrst run of the game. They scored
the next ten points, leaving the score at
18-8. First year forward Becca Bolton
stopped the bleeding with a lay-up with
10:32 left in the half. The lead extended
to twelve, but the Generals battled back
to close the margin to four with :13 left
in the half. A couple of late Bridgewa-
ter free throws left the half time score
at 38-32.

The second half started as the ﬁrst
half did. W&L wasn’t able to cut into
the lead much, but Bridgewater did not
extend it either. Bridgewater’s margin
of six was unchanged with 14:50 to
play. However, a key three by Bridge-
water’s junior forward Kristin Bosser-
man with 13:59 to play started a big run
that would ultimately decide the game.

mmpaeaeou

  
 

    

 

  OLLEGE

   
  

SATURDAY MARCH 14TH

 

  MARCH’ 125151.11,

kewnuscnnrs wnsrmtaworc 

SPRING BREAK 2009

THREE NIGI-ITS LODGING THREE DAYS OF TICKETS
I-‘REE TICKETS ON DAY OF‘ ARRIVAL

S299 PER PERSON*

CALL 866-865-5885 FOR RESERVATIONS.

sear-ran 3333331 on notnam occupancy in A s-numaan saoxza noon.
an-rs: noas nor-—n:c:..una nmanva-non paocassnw ran on wax.

OFFER SUBi’EGT_ TO AVAILABILITY AND MAY CHANGE  ANYTQEE.

rm »    ______ . .... ..,..333..33r_5_53i3_:_=-’,Wi
  WWW.sNOWSHOEMTN.GOm

  

.~ .0‘

 

    

   

 

Bridgewater outscored the Gener-
als 19-7 over the next 6:49 to take a
commanding 65-47 lead with 8:01 left
to play. W&L fought to close the lead
to seven (68-61) on a lay-up by senior
guard Bethany Ridenhour with 3:45 re-
maining. However, that was as close as
the Generals would get as Bridgewater
claimed a 77-65 victory.

This was the Generals’ third defeat
at the hands of the Eagles this season.
Bridgewater won again Saturday to ad-
vance to the ﬁnals but ended up falling
to second-seed Randolph-Macon, 69-
65, in the ODAC championship game.

Two ﬁrst-years led the Generals in
the contest. Bolton had a game-high 21
points and grabbed nine boards, while
guard Meghan Ingram added 15 points
and ﬁve rebounds. Senior guard Beth-
any Ridenhour also had a strong perfor-
mance in the last game of her career. She
had seven steals along with 14 points.
Sophomore center Felice Herman added
10 points with seven rebounds.

Senior forward Jennifer Saunders
led Bridgewater with 16 points. Sopho-
more guard Jordan Burkholder was not
far behind with 14 points and ﬁve as-
sists.

The Generals were plagued by poor
shooting, going only 33.9 percent from

' the ﬂoor including 19.0 percent on

three-pointers. However, the Generals’
defense was strong. W&L forced 24
turnovers including 14 steals and also
outrebounded the Eagles.

The loss ends The Generals’ 2008-09
season with a 14-12 overall record with
a 13-8 ODAC mark.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2009

8 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

rdeck  

 

MoN Tues WED Tuuns FRI SAT SUN
l
1 Men's TBD
Basketbai NCAA announces post-season schedule Monday
l
3 Men's
Iswimmln
l
Women's
swimming
at
t Mews Vlrglnla
Track Tech
1 10 a.m.
at
lwomews Virginia
Track Tech
10 a.m.
vs - vs
, Hampden- Virginia
 Baseba" Sydney Wesleyan
3 p.m. 12 p.m.
at
Golf Callaway Collegiate
invite
 Vs at
3 ""°"'5 Desaies Wash-
Lacrosse
5 p.m. 1 P-m-
vs
vs
lwomems A BC Franklin &
1 Lacrosse 4 Marshall
. p'm' 1 p.m.
l at
, Menrs vlfglnla
 Tennis Wesleyan
2 p.m.
at
‘womenrs Vlfgllllﬂ
. Tennis Wesleyan
 2 p.m.

numbers
.20

The number of years since the last time W&L men’s basketball team

 

advanced to the ODAC finals. The team lost in the conference champi-

onship Sunday to Virginia Wesleyan, 62-66.

8

The W&L men’s basketball team’s seed in the ODAC tournament. The
Generals beat the ninth-, first-, and fourth-seeded teams but ended up

falling to seventh—seeded Virginia Wesleyan in the championship.

0

The number of NFL players besides quarterbacks to sign for a $100
million contract before defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth agreed to

a seven—year, $100 million deal with the Washington Redskins Friday.

12096

The self-assigned chance that 42-year-old pitcher Curt Schilling will
return for the 2009 season, as he told ESPN Friday. Schilling, who
is currently a free agent, missed the 2008 season after undergoing

shoulder surgery.

 

box

“My best advice to you is, shut up. Quite frankly,
we bring in $12 million to the university.  Get

 

some facts and come back and see me.”

University of Connecticut head men’s basketball coach Jim Calhoun
after a reporter asked him at a press conference why the coach of a
public university was making $1.6 million during these tough economic
times. Connecticut governor later called Calhoun’s comments an
“embarrassing display.”, Courtesy of cbssports.com.

“it’s an emotional decision. It saddens me. But!
feel it’s in the best interest of two of the things I
love the most, and that’s the Washington Nation-

als and baseball. ”

Former Washington Nationals general manager Jim Bowden in a press
conference Sunday announcing his resignation. Bowden is under
federal investigation for allegedly skimming signing bonuses given
to Latin American prospects. Courtesy of cbssports.com.

 

Senior guard Chris McHugh goes for three of his game-
& Henry 84-81. The team went on to beat Guilford in t

falls i nls

nals but lost to Virginia Wesleyan in the ODAC finals Sunday.

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

high 21 points on Tuesday as W&L beat Emory
he "quarterfinals and Bridgewater in the semifi-

Virginia Wesleyan beats Generals 66-62 in ODAC championship

By Hank Nathan
STAFF WRITER

After a rollercoaster ride in the regular
season, the Washington & Lee men’s bas-
ketball team saved its best basketball for
last in the ODAC Tournament. The eighth-
seeded Generals turned its disappointing
second half of the year into a Cinderella
story by defeating Emory & Henry, Guil-
ford and Bridgewater in postseason play
to advance to the ODAC championship
game Sunday.

The team took on seventh-seeded
Virginia Wesleyan in the conference ﬁ-
nal. After falling behind by as many as
16 toward the end of the ﬁrst half, W&L
mounted a comeback but fell just short,
losing to the Blue Marlins 66-62. Junior
forward Ben Goetsch had a chance to tie
the game with three seconds togo, but his
contested shot inside the paint did not fall.
Goetsch led the Generals with a career-
high-tying 19 points and ﬁve rebounds.
More information was not yet available as
of press time Sunday. ,

But the magic ﬁrst started during the
play-in round against number nine seed-
ed Emory & Hemy at the Warner Center
Tuesday. W&L started out on ﬁre and cre-
ated a 17-3 lead with 12:34 to play in the
ﬁrst half. However, the teams switched
roles as the Wasps went on a 23-7 run
over the next six minutes. By halftime,
E&H created an 11 point lead and the
score was 41-30.

Facing elimination, the Blue and White
were not deterred in the second half.

“This team is all about persevering,”
said sophomore guard Jason Cimino.
“We’ve been through so much as a team,
mentally and physically, that everyone
knows we have each other’s backs.”

And persevere is exactly what the
Generals did as the team mounted a
comeback. With 10:19 remaining in the
game, senior guard Chris McHugh nailed
a three-pointer from the left side to cut the
lead to one. Less than two minutes later,
senior forward Ben Heller took the ball
from the top of the key and drove through
the lane for a layup with a defender in his
face to knot the game at 56.

The game went back and forth down
the stretch before the Wasps extended its
narrow lead to three points with less than
one minute to play. McHugh, who helped

‘ lead the comeback with several shots from
behind the are, added in one more pivotal
3-ball with 33.5 seconds left to send the
game to overtime.

“If l’ve learned anything about our
team over the last four years, it is that we
will never quit,” said McHugh who ‘scored
a career-high 21 in the game. “I knew that
when we were down, all we would do is
continue to ﬁght.”

In overtime, W&L struck ﬁrst with
some foul shots and the team never lost
the lead after the 3:31 mark. The ﬁnal
score was 84-81 as the Generals won its

" ﬁrst postseason game since 2000.

Head coach Adam Hutchinson praised
his squad’s effort after the game.

“Senior leadership has played a rolein
every win we had this season, [but] what I
found really encouraging about this game
was that everyone on our team‘ exhibited
leadership,” said Coach Hutchinson.

Following the thrilling overtime vic-
tory against Emory & Henry, the Gener-
als traveled to the Salem Civic Center to
face the number one seed and nationally
ranked Guilford College in the round of
eight.

Prior to the game, at the ODAC’s an-
nual banquet, two W&L players received
conference awards. Heller was selected as
the ODAC/F arm Bureau Scholar-Athlete,

sions to re-gain the lead.

The game continued to remain close in
the waning moments of the contest. With
less than 20 seconds to go, the Quakers
sank two foul shots, giving the team a
slim one-point lead at 66-65. Zac White,
who did not score a point all game, drove
to the basket on the next possession and
was fouled with 6.2 seconds left. White
knocked down the ﬁrst shot from the
charity stripe, but the second one rattled
around the rim and would not go down,
sending the game to overtime.

In the extra stanza, the Generals car-
ried the lead throughout, but could not
preserve it as the Quakers netted in a la-
yup with ﬁve seconds left to force another
overtime. This time, Guilford took the

“If I ’ve learned anything about our team over the last

four years, it is that we will never quit. I knew that when

we were down [against Emory & Henry], all we could do

is continue to ﬁght. ”

Chris McHugh, senior captain guard

 

and junior forward Zac Whitewas tabbed
as honorable mention All-ODAC.

While the game against Emory & Hen-
ry may have been classiﬁed as a thriller,
the Guilford contest even surpassed that
and was elevated to instant-classic status.

Throughout the match, both teams bat-
tled and neither could separate from one
another; the largest lead of the game by
either team was seven points. In the ﬁrst
half alone, there were eight lead changes
and four ties.

The Generals were carried by senior
guard Isaiah Goodman in the ﬁrst stanza
who was getting it done on both the offen-
sive and defensive sides of the ﬂoor and
set the tone for the game. The ﬁrst half
was marked by defense as W&L forced
the Quakers into turning the ball over 12
times.

“With our team, it’s all about a uniﬁed

‘ defensive attack [with] constant commu-
nication and giving it your all until you
can’t give anymore,” said senior forward
Craig Sauers about the team’s defensive
effort.

Despite the sloppy game by Guilford,
the score was 30-28 at half in favor of the
Blue and White. In the second half, the
Generals jumped out to a quick start and
extended the lead to seven, but Guilford
thwarted the run and immediately chipped
away at the lead. With 8:50 left in regula-
tion, junior forward Andrew Payne was
called for an intentional foul which re-
sulted in the Quakers re-taking the lead.
However, right after that, Goodman car-
ried the team for the next stretch by scor-
ing on the Generals’ next three posses-

early lead, but the resilient W&L squad
answered when McHugh hit his ﬁfth 3-
pointer to give the team the lead once and
for all at 3:57. The ﬁnal score was 82-76.

“We put everything on the line [in the
Guilford game] and it feels great to come
out with the victory,” said Goodman after
the game. “It shows how good our team
can be if we give it our all.”

The Generals’ win over Guilford was
just the second time in ODAC history that
the number eight seed has knocked off the
top seed in the conference post-season
tournament.

W&L then matched up against fourth-
seeded Bridgewater Saturday in the semi-
ﬁnals of the ODAC Tournament.

Fresh off of two emotional wins, the
Generals remained up to the task in an
effort to get to the conference champion-
-ship.

Just like in the E&H game_, the W&L
squad came out ﬁring and took an early
11-point lead with the score 16-5. Once
again, the lead dwindled and, by halftime,
the team narrowly maintained a one-point
lead at 36-35.

At the 6:30 mark left in the game, the
Generals took a two-point lead and did
not look back. The ﬁnal score was 77-67
as W&L would not be denied its ﬁrst birth
in the championship game since the 1988-
1989 season. In the effort, Goetsch led the
way with a career-high 19 points.

W&L ﬁnished with 16 wins on the
year, the most since the 1988-1989 sea-
son.

 

