f\TCl-\

*.-.va.'r«:.~u
IQ gag.-is
 Hf-

 

  Growing a musical

 

 

   

ﬁg?

 

 

e eeret arden,” 

is irteeltend     
ARTS 8. LIFE / page

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MAY 18,2009

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1397

VOLUME CXII,

Securing the

nation

F ormer head of CIA and
FBI speaks at Lee Chapel

By Diandra Spicak
NEWS EDITOR

Sponsored by the Contact Committee, Judge
William H. Webster, chairman of the Homeland
Security Advisory Council and the only American
to serve as director of both the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA) and Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI), spoke at Lee Chapel last Tuesday.

Webster’s untitled speech focused on many
topics, but the overall theme of security rang
throughout.

“I didn’t want to provide a title for the speech,”
he said. “I wanted to keep the atmosphere lighter,
rather than giving it a serious tone right off the
bat.”

“I said this once before, and it
still holds true. Order protects
liberty, and liberty protects or-

der. ”
Judge William H. Webster, chairman of

Homeland Security Advisory Council

Divided into three sections, Webster hit many
a controversial topic stemming from national
security. His speech detailed his career as a
judge, director of the FBI and director of the
CIA, along with providing slight histories of both
organizations.

His illustrious career in public service began
with his appointment as a judge of the United
States of District Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri. In 1973, he found himself elevated to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.

In 1978, President Jimmy Carter appointed
Webster as the director of the FBI, where he served
until 1987 when President Ronald Regan chose
him as director of the CIA due to his successful
coups against the New York maﬁa. He led the CIA
until retiring from public ofﬁce in 1991.

Due to his status, Webster took opportunities
throughout his speech to talk about national
security issues ranging from the Patriot Act to
Homeland Security. His devotion to security
shone through his answers, as he responded to
the hotly contested issues: Webster repeated
throughout that security is essential to the
populace, citing Lincoln’s suspension of the writ
of habeas corpus.

“I said this once before, and it still holds true,”
Webster said. “Order protects liberty and liberty
protects order. It is up to local, state and national
headquarters to keep our citizens safe and secure.

Webster practiced law at the Washington ofﬁce
of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. Although
he retired in 2005, Webster remains active in
the practice of law. Judge Webster was named
in 2006 as the chair of the Homeland Security
Advisory Council which provides advice and
recommendations to the Secretary on matters
related to homeland security.

In 1991, Webster was presented the
Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the Presidential
Medal of Freedom and the National Security
Medal. He is the recipient of the 2001 Justice
Award of the American Judicature Society and the
2002 ABA Medal, its highest honor. He is listed
in “The Best Lawyers in America” and has also
received NASA’s Distinguished Public Service
Medal.

Webster earned bachelor’s degrees in history
and political science, as well as an honorary
Doctor of Laws degree, from Amherst College.
He received his law degree from Washington
University. He served as a lieutenant in the United
States Navy in World War II and again in the
Korean War.

But for Webster, security cannot come from
the national organizations alone. He advised all
of the undergraduates in the audience to “set aside
time for service for your country -- for duty, for
honor, for security.”

EC aﬂirms sexual violence breaches community ’s trust

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING eonon

Following ongoing concerns from
students that the Executive Commit-
tee holds and ambiguous position on
sexual assault cases, the EC released
a statement condemning sexual vio-
lence as an act that undermines the
trust of the entire community.

According to a press release sent
to campus publications on May 6,
the EC voted unanimously to pass
the following statement on Tuesday,
May 5:

“Sexual violence is unacceptable
in society and is especially discor-
dant with Washington and Lee’s cul-
ture of honor and civility.”

At the student body meeting on
May 4, several students who spoke
before the EC said they did not un-
derstand why sexual violence is not
explicitly called an “honor viola-
tion” and why a separate judicial
body, the Student-Faculty Hear-
ing Board (SFHB), exists to handle

these cases. ‘

“The Executive Committee re-
tains jurisdiction over all activities
that the Student Body deems dishon-
orable,” the statement reads.

The statement also says that the

The SFHB can impose various pun-
ishments, including dismissal. Dis-
missal from the university is the only
sanction when forced sexual inter-
course is found to have happened.
EC Secretary Bill Larson said in

{K

t was clear..that students are interested in gain-

ing a better understanding of the SFHB and work-

ing to reduce incidents of sexual violence. I hope

our statement will be a step forward in meeting

1

those goals. ’

Bill Larson, EC Secretary

SFHB is “a specially trained forum
with speciﬁcally designed proce-
dures to adjudicate such matters.”
Moreover, the statement explains
that when alleged sexual violence
cases are brought before the EC, the
EC can choose to either hear these
cases or refer them to the SFHB.

an e-mail that the EC decided to pass
this statement because ﬁghting sexu-
al violence is a priority of the EC.

He said that the EC has been
working on this statement for at
least four weeks, so the student body
meeting was not the only reason for
its release.

The statement was passed the day
after the student body meeting, but
this was a coincidence, according to
Larson.

However, he added that the EC
was happy to ﬁnd support in some of
the students who attended the meet-
ing.

“It was clear from the student
body meeting that students are inter-
ested in gaining a better understand-
ing of the SFHB and working to
reduce incidents of sexual violence
on our campus,” he said. “I hope our
statement will be a step forward in
meeting those goals.”

This statement will be posted on
the EC bulletin boards and Web site,
and ﬁrst-year students will receive a
copy during orientation.

Learning how to live well

W&L hosts ﬁrst annual national Women is Health Week

By Eleanor Kennedy
STAFF WRITER

This past week, Washington
and Lee played host to the national
Women’s Health Week. The Tau
Omega Chapter of Delta Sigma The-
ta Sorority, Inc., which is comprised
of women from W&L, Ronaoke Col-
lege and Hollins University, spon-
sored the week.

The theme was “It’s Your Time.”
Events throughout the week focused
on promoting healthy living through
physical ﬁtness and mental well-
ness.

Junior Beri Ndifon, one of the co-
ordinators of Women’s Health Week,
has been a member of Delta Sigma
Theta Sorority Incorporated for six
months. According to Ndifon, this
was the ﬁrst time Washington and
Lee hosted a week like this one. Ndi-
fon said that she and the other mem-
bers of Delta Sigma Theta “hope to

continue to celebrate the week every
year.”

Ndifon said that since the week’s
events were taking place on a col-
lege campus, the events “focused on
issues that were most pertinent to the
female college demographic.” In or-

Jane Horton MD, the director of Stu-
dent Health and Counseling Servic-
es, gave a talk entitled “Your Body,
Your Life, Your Choice: Exploring
the Correlation Between Drug and
Alcohol Use and Sexual Health.” On
Tuesday, students wishing to partici-

“[ T he week] focused on issues that were most per-

tinentto the female college demographic. ’

I

Beri Ndifon, Iunlor

der to celebrate the week, Delta Sig-
ma Theta coordinated both speakers
on important issues and fun physical
activities to bring a needed focus to
women’s health issues.

The week kicked off with a
speaker in Stackhouse Theater. Dr.

pate in this celebration of women’s
health attended “Zumba With the
Divas: ‘Ditch the Workout, Join the
Party!” in the Warner Center.

Dr. Jennifer Sayre, clincial psy-
chologist and university counselor
spoke in Stackhouse on Wednes-

day night. Her speech, “Mind Over
Matter: Surmounting The Pressures
of An Academically Competitive
Atmosphere,” dealt with the stress
students may face in their academic
lives and how they might overcome
it. The dance studio in Doremus
Gym hosted “Chillaxation Time” on
Thursday, a time for female Gener-
als to take a break to relax without
being disturbed by the pressures of
collegiate life.

The week concluded with a char-
ity cookout hosted by Delta Sigma
Theta on Canaan Green. Donations
were collected at the event for the
Rockbridge Area Free Clinic. The
clinic is a non-proﬁt healthcare pro-
vider for uninsured and underinsured
residents of Rockbridge County.

 

NUMBER 21

umvrasrrv Llaailﬁli
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24460

JLITAY '5 ‘:3 “mi?

 

2 - THE RING-"I"IJM PHI

MONDAY, MAY 18, 2009

 

Responsibility is key

SJC leadership calls for new responsibility system

We talk a lot about honor at Washington
and Lee.

We advertise it to prospective students.
We discuss it amongst ourselves, in semi-
nars and in journals such as this one. More
importantly, the student body elects stu-
dents, and students alone, to guard it. It is
the “moral cornerstone” of our University.

Our commitment to this cornerstone
guarantees the primacy of ordinary morality
in the conduct of our affairs ~ in our school-
work, our extracurricular commitments and
our personal lives.

Despite our emphasis on honor, we do
not always live up to its demands. We have
little lying, cheating or stealing (despite the
dramatic increase in the Executive Commit-
tee’s caseload this year), but there are many
incidents of drunk driving, sexual harass-
ment and other dishonorable behaviors.

Unfortunately, they appear to be on the
rise. The number of conduct incidents re-
ported to Dean Brandon Dotson by local
law enforcement, Residential Life staff and
Public Safety has risen this year. Addition-
ally, incidents brought to the Student Judi-
cial Council have in increased in number
and seriousness, most notably drunk driv-
ing. The prevalence of these behaviors is
incompatible with the essence of honor and
its signiﬁcance to our community.

Honor, normally deﬁned, is similar to
integrity; it is a commitment to ordinary
morality. According this deﬁnition, lying is
dishonorable. The same goes for cheating
and stealing — traditional dishonorable be-
haviors within our system. As noted above,
drunk driving, sexual harassment and phys-
ical assault also easily qualify as dishonor-
able under this deﬁnition.

However, within our System, we do not
consider such behaviors technically dis-
honorable. The reason is one of deﬁnition.
According to the White Book, we deﬁne a
dishonorable behavior as a “breach of the
Community’s trust.” Traditionally, the Stu-
dent Body has not considered such behav-
iors breaches of trust. Thus, conduct policy,
rather than the Honor System, adjudicates
such cases.

Of course, almost all conceptions of
ordinary morality acknowledge that drunk
driving, sexual harassment and physical as-
sault are just as immoral (or dishonorable,
per the normal deﬁnition) as lying, cheating
or stealing. In fact, they are probably worse
in many instances. Drunk driving endangers
lives, whereas academic cheating does not.
Yet they are not accorded the same stigma
in our community because they are not in-
terpreted as breaches of the community’s
trust. Why do we have this dichotomy?

The stigma surrounding traditional hon-
ot violations is a principal reason why there
is relatively little lying, cheating and steal-

Don't miss this last week !
Choose the day that works for you.

"S UR VI VAL KIT"

Everything you always
wanted to know about
getting and keeping a

ing. The stigma supplements our ordinary
moral aversion to these behaviors and de-
ters members of our community who may
otherwise feel tempted to engage in them.

This isn’t merely wordplay: institu-
tions can reafﬁrm, even change, values. We
hold each other accountable in this regard.
Furthermore, the promotion of the Honor
System attracts prospective students who
appreciate our commitment to honor. The
heavy emphasis placed upon the Honor
System during First-Year Orientation fur-
ther entrenches our commitment.

Because drunk driving, sexual assault
and physical assault are just as destruc-
tive to our community, we should accord
them the same stigma. If the values of our

ity would include most behaviors that are
prohibited by current conduct policy and
which are inconsistent with our common
values. The SJC would hear these Personal
Responsibility violations and the EC would
continue to hear traditional HVs.

In fact, the SJC often charges accused
students with “Conduct Unbecoming of
a Washington and Lee Student.” The SJC
would retain its option of multiple sanctions
(rather than the single sanction) to properly
adjudicate its diverse caseload. Addition-
ally, it would gradually gain more indepen-
dence from the faculty and administration
as students acclimated to the maintenance
of the Personal Responsibility System.

To the naysayers of student self-gover-

By establishing a System of Personal Responsibility, we can

signiﬁcantly discourage behaviors such as drunk driving and

sexual harassment that unfortunately ﬁgure so prominently

0l’l OLII” campus.

 

namesakes George Washington and Robert
E. Lee offer any guidance, such behaviors
should be as discouraged as much as tradi-
tional HVs.

Some have proposed that the EC should
hear such behaviors as HVs, but this is
both problematic and insufﬁcient for sev-
eral reasons. F irst, it would be difﬁcult (and
unpopular) to interpret many dishonorable
behaviors as technical breaches of the com-
munity’s trust (e.g. vandalism and physical
assault). Second, the single sanction is not
adept at adjudicating certain cases. It seems
unjustiﬁable for a student to be dismissed
for a .10 BAC DUI, despite the egregious-
ness of such behavior. Third, the EC is al-
ready very busy.

Therefore, to avoid said difﬁculties, re-
solve the false dichotomy and truly safe-
guard honor at our University, I recommend
the establishment of a System of Personal
Responsibility parallel to the Honor Sys-
tern.

Along with honor, personal responsi-
bility (although encompassed within the
aforementioned normal deﬁnition of honor)
should be raised to a moral cornerstone of
the University. This is not a radical idea, as
personal responsibility is already coupled
with honor throughout documents such as
The White Book or the Student Handbook.
We must further incorporate this value into
the ethos of our university.

Under the proposed System, honor
would continue to bear its narrow deﬁni-
tion, and violations of personal responsibil-

nance, the century-long administration of
the Honor System has incontrovertibly dem-
onstrated our competence. Furthermore,
our advertisements to prospective students,
the language in our documents, and the
structure of Freshman Orientation would
incorporate the dual Systems of Honor and
Personal Responsibility. Importantly, the
Executive Committee would continue to
serves as the Student Government.

This proposal is not merely an attempt to
semantically reconcile the language of val-
ues at our University, nor is it a challenge to
the authority of the Executive Committee or
the primacy of the Honor System. By estab-
lishing a System of Personal Responsibility,
we can signiﬁcantly discourage behaviors
such as drunk driving and sexual harass-
ment that unfortunately ﬁgure so promi-
nently on our campus. The incorporation
of personal responsibility as a cornerstone
of our community is paramount. A policy
change is insufﬁcient to radically affect be-
havior. However, it’s a start.

By Chris Tutor ‘09 (fmr. SJC Secretary)
Signed,

Chris Tutor ‘09
Crighton Allen ‘ll (SJC Chair)
Caitlin Cottingham ‘ 10L

(SJC Secretary)
Riley Barnes ‘09 (frnr. SJC Chair)

Prcfiles in Leadership:

A sincere and special thanks to these seniors for their
many leadership contributions to our community:
Garrett Clark for his work with Campus/ Community Coalition
jennifer Lysenlzo for serving as president of ODK; jenna Walls and
Hunter Branstetter for their unsung kindness; Regina Mills for her
work with KEWL and women’s issues; Grace Andrews for her
abundant energy and wit; Hammond McEver, Chris Tutor, David
Vaught andjulie Petersen for their witness of faith; Melissa Caron
and jacob Geiger for their journalistic excellence; Morgan Harris
and Dana Statton for their photographic eye; Riley Barnes for his
work on the Student Judicial Council; Alex Utsey, Ellie Hanson,
Rich Cleary and jack Stanton for their service on the Executive
Committee; Allison Gionta andjenniferjanes for their service on
the Student Faculty Hearing Board; Helen Coupe for her dra-

—— ———————————— ——~ WASHINGTON up Lu: Umvsxsm 

THE RING -TUM 

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITOR

ALLISON CHOPIN
DIANDRA SPICAK
CODY BEAUCHAMP
STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
WILL DORRANCE
KATHERINE ROBERTS
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS ANTHONY BALLOR
MEGAN DAILY
RACHEL DENNISTON
LIZZ DYE

NEVILLE FOGARTY
ELEANOR KENNEDY

DESIGN EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

LARA JORDAN
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &
LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

 *
éierzég e  
I’i~:n..«.L {Lian X}H'~Z‘f<‘,R & ‘tars: ”i"m's' (if.-s.:'»‘té:

{"}r'de.r frtlill usrr ::r>n1g".x§ei'e rnssrtnu
(Jr .1’0it.v iorsjfor cane ofozar A LL 1131.! (..‘..-2N if/sﬁ St‘ Bs.g,rj,'f&3r.s.’

Friﬁzay Night Seafood 5.i3u'f'fe'; with t’3r'&l.\. ixaggs .‘f>;3m-"lﬁgam
Saturday Nigtzt. Prérne Ritz IT)irmr.=;-5' 23pm-10pm
Sunday Baked (3h';L*.§<en. F”r.>rI«.‘ l,,r.7in, 3, Prat R::;asS'. “E ‘I.arn-:~3pm
Friday & Saturday i..ate: Night Breakfast Bar ‘trilpm--2am
Earezakfasszt Bar T Says a Xﬁleek tiéam-»t “Earn
Daily Mot Country Bar Mam--‘ii3g:im
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit B;-39“ ‘E ”I2;2rri-1€.};'>rx'a

{”)2°clz-.‘,r Bre:a.l-;t”:15~:r 24 ‘l~{<>t.u':-.; rs cizsy. 7 dz};/;< at x\=acel«'.§

1'Imme <I:'.‘mr.u?::ed .»M’er:ur/s A’: »S°:‘}IN.*}':z2*rII i:‘1r.v;zir(zii;f;,.~,’

l..ru:zx§es'l at
§—1~{I .1:-_ I—t'»~3, }>:','~.it 39:3, 7.51%.» N:'<z'§.§‘s ﬂue Iiwj, . I. <*'>~.im.<.1<m. \//\
546)--/§{§3w3«§°?’t55i

Great “food 6‘: :2 gran? z::t:aI3a:£:‘Hon of
Antique Peeler! (Bars «Si Tin Toys?

 

 

103 or INTERNSHIP

Tuesday, May 19 — 1:25 PM
Wednesday, May 20 — 11:15 AM

Location: Career Services
Commons Third Floor
Contact us for details

‘W.é’liSPII?‘€{3’l‘{)?~5 ANI) IQEZF. I.3NI"v"IiR.:iiT‘:”'

CAREEReSERViCES

matic work with Pieces of the Puzzle;]ess Shaw for her purity of
heart and optimistic spirit; Rebecca Koval and jule Miata for their
service to Traveler; Harryjohnson for his service to the Interfrat—
ernity Council; Allie Boyat for serving as Key Staff in the Outing
Club; Chris Ruclzer for his service to MSA and The Gentlemen’s
Club; Isaiah Goodman for his work initiating SAAC at W&L and
serving as chair of SAAC for the NCAA, Division III; Liza
Njuguna andjamila Seaton for their smiles and kindness to oth-
ers; Anna Pendley and Wes O’DeIl for their service on behalf of
Residential Life; Tabi King for her work with Caribbean Society
~ and a very special thanks to Micaela Coffey for her service as
21 Peer Counselor and for her invaluable assistance as a leader-
ship development intern for these past four years.

Best wishes to all of you in your future endeavors!!!

Tomorrow’s Leadership Seminar:
“Ministry Amidst Genocide”
Rev. Lauren Stanley
Rev. Stanley, Episcopal priest, is a missionary, lecturer and

chaplain at Renk Theological College, in Sudan
6:30 PM ~ Room 214 ~ Elrod Commons

W&t Theater & Music Departments present
A Robert 0. and Elizabeth II. Bentley Musical IEYIBIII

 DY IIOISIIO NOIIIIOII
LIIIZY SIIIIOII
FIOIICOS IIIIIIQSOII BIIIIIIBII

"II MISII ’76
IIOIIIIOII

WIISIIINGTIIN ANII LEE IINIVEIIS

TSP’

 

   

Q”

G,

 

MONDAY, MAY 18, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI - 3

 

arts&life

Corey Smith performs for fans on Friday

at Lime Kiln Theater.

LIZZ DYE / Staff Writer

Fun and tunes for charity

F irst-ever Kappa Alpha charity concert ﬁghts muscular dystrophy with Carey Smith

By Llzz Dye
STAFF wnmzn

Corey Smith on a Friday night?
Helping a worthy cause? Sounds like
a good time! And it was.

Smith performed on Friday at
the Kappa Alpha Charity Concert
at Lime Kiln Theater. All proceeds
from the concert went to the Mus-
cular Dystrophy Association which
aims to conquer neuromuscular dis-
eases that affect more than a million
Americans.

Smith is a Georgia native whose
music is part Jimmy Buffet, part Ja-
son Mraz. He has gained most of his
popularity through the Internet and
avid touring.

Shane Hines and the Trance
warmed up the crowd. But when

Smith took the stage, the crowd went
wild. It was truly what everyone had
been waiting for. While enjoying
a beer, Smith played favorites such
as “Drinkin’ Again” (to which he
yelled, “This is the most sober crowd
I’ve ever sung this to!”) along with
“F*ck the Po-Po.”

A colorful character to say the
least, Smith got the crowd dancing,
singing, and screaming for more.
Just when it was over, the shout for
“encore!” sounded and Smith hap-
pily gave the people more.

The opening act was composed
of two main members, Shane Hines
and Mr. Thumbs. The alternative
rock band, summing up its style as
“blending aggressive arrangements
with hook-ﬁlled melodies,” played

songs from its new CD, “The Glory
Journal.” Most of the band’s funding
comes directly from its fans’ pockets;
in fact, the last CD, “Team Trance,”
was totally fan-funded. Shane Hines
and the Trance played a variety of
music, from true rock songs to seem-
ingly-country-inﬂuenced ballads.
When asked how they came to
tour with Smith, Hines said that it
“just kinda happened...we got‘ to-
gether and it was good and fun.”
The two acts will continue their tour
to South Carolina next weekend.
The concert was quite good as
a whole. A merchandise table sold
Corey Smith paraphernalia, includ-
ing signed posters, t-shirts and CD5.
There was barbecue galore and a va-
riety of drinks. However, one down-

side for those twenty-one and up was
that alcohol was not allowed on the
premises nor sold on-site.

Melissa Powell ‘ 12 had not seen
Smith before in concert before, even
though he often plays in her home-
town.

“I was so happy that I ﬁnally got
to see him, and when he walked off
stage and gave me his guitar pick,
it was the happiest moment of my
life,” Powell said.

Many people would agree with
her sentiment that the Corey Smith
concert was a success.

“The Secret Garden” blooms this weekend at Lenfest

By Anthony Ballor
STAFF WRITER

The house lights are on for
this year’s Robert O. and Eliza-
beth M. Bentley Musical, Tony
Award—winner “The Secret Gar-
den.”

As author Frances Hodgson
Burnett said, “As long as one has
a garden, one has a future; and
as long as one has a future one
is alive.” This is the lesson that
Mary Lennox, played by Hannah
Kate Mitchell ’l0, learns in the
musical.

Based on the novel by Bur-
nett and with a powerful score
by Lucy Simon, it follows Mary,

Dreamers include several of

Cast is set, ready and waiting to take the stage, a ﬁrst for many and a ﬁnal W&L performance for Matt Amling

awesome.”

India after her parents and ev-
eryone she knows die of cholera.
Mary must live in Yorkshire,
England with her reclusive uncle
Archibald, played by senior Matt
Amling ’09, and his invalid son
Colin, played by Erika Rest ’09.

She soon learns from the
friendly, humorous gardener,
portrayed by Markheavens Tshu-
ma ’ 10, that the estate contains a
mysterious locked garden. Mary
gradually realizes that opening
the garden and unlocking the
magic within is the key to saving
her new-found family.

The cast is completed by
people from Mary’s past, known
as the Dreamers, who have died
from the cholera outbreak. The

an 11-year old girl orphaned in

Last Lectures

What to say zfiz‘ were the last?

By Rachel Denniston
smrr wrmen

University photographer and former professor Pat
Hinely urged the Washington and Lee community to be
open to different ideas and perspectives because they just
may hold some truth.

He encouraged students to live with, what he called,
the “and, also” approach to life~one that recognizes the
possibility of more than one right answer to life’s many
unanswered questions.

Given how little we know in the universe, we just can’t
be sure of anything, Hinely said.

A 1973 graduate of W&L, Hinely is well-known for
his photos from the University calendar and Web site. He
is also one of two photographers for “Seen on Campus,”
W&L’s online slideshow photo gallery.

Hinely spoke Thursday as the second of four lectur-
ers in the Last Lecture Series, a project created by senior
Eddie Rodriguez. Every Thursday in May a professor
presents a speech as if it was his last one ever. The topic
and format of each lecture is not revealed until the lecture
itself.

The series was based on the famous September 2007
last lecture of Randy Pausch, a professor diagnosed with
pancreatic cancer at Carnegie Mellon University

Pausch’s lecture focused on achieving one’s childhood
dreams and has been viewed by nearly ten million people
online.

Rodriguez said he was inspired by Pausch’s story and,
as a graduating senior, was curious to hear the hypotheti-
cal last words of several of his favorite professors.

Hinely showed the many ways that photography and
life parallel each other. He said that in both, one must
learn from mistakes.

Photography is an “all or nothing package,” he said.

“There is no way to not take bad pictures. As you prog-
ress, you may get more good ones, but you will also get
bad ones... [and these] bad ones must be studied,” Hinely
said.

He also reflected upon the nature of time.

“If there’s a certain thing you wanna do, start sooner
rather than later,” he said. “The light will be different to-
morrow.”

Rodriguez anticipates a good student response to the
lectures. He said that students already seem to be re-
sponding well; the event even has its own Facebook page,
where many students have RSVP-ed to attend.

According to Rodriguez, a video of each lecture will
be posted on YouTube for those unable to attend.

This Thursday, Dick Kuettner, professor of Romance
Languages and director of the Tucker Multimedia Center
will give his lecture. Thursday, May 28, Professor of Eco-
nomics James Casey will give his.

The lectures begin at 7 p.m. in Huntley Hall 221. They
are free and open to the public.

Mary’s servants from India, such
as including Fakir, played by
Tim Kirby ’ 10, and Ayah, played
by Blanton Cohen ’12 . Though
they exist only in Mary’s mind,
they are crucial to the plot, re-
vealing the living characters’
motivations. .

The cast comprises a wide
range of vocal talent and expe-
rience. Archibald’s long—dead
wife, Lily, is played by Stepha-
nie Shaner, a community mem-
ber with a great talent and expe-
rience in many singing roles. But
for much of the cast, “The Secret
Garden” is their debut on the col-
lege stage.

The cast is directed by Rob

Mish ’76 and coached by Josh
Harvey ’00, vocal coaches Larry
Evans and Christine Schadeberg,
Sarah Warsco ’ ll and Jenna
Worsham ’ 10. They have been
helping the students understand
the true meaning of the script
and songs, Harvey said. During
winter term, the cast was strong-
ly encouraged to keep a journal
of observations about the weath-
er for that day, in order to attune
themselves to nature.

Both Amling and Harvey
spoke of the challenge of putting
on this show. For Amling, the dif-
ﬁculty lies both in his character’s
songs and the emotional style of
acting required for his role.

“There are several instanc-

es where l...must portray the
character’s thoughts and feel-
ings without words and song and
using very little movement,” he
said.

Harvey commented on some
of the difficulties of coaching the
singers.

“The mutual challenge comes
in trying to bring everyone to the
same understanding. . investing
energy and presence fully during
all aspects of rehearsal,” Harvey
said.

Both men are optimistic
about the show’s future.

“Despite these challenges, the
show is coming along well, and
things are really beginning to
click,” Amling said. “It will be

The Theater and Music De-
partments at W&L have an
impressive track record with
musical productions, from the
Student Showcase in the fall to
last year’s musical “Little Shop
of Horrors,” and this year’s mu-
sical will prove to be no excep-
tion.

The production runs Thurs-
day through Sunday this week.
Tickets are available at the Box
Ofﬁce, campus phone extension
8000, Monday through Friday
from 9 to 11 a.m. and 2 to 4 p.m.,
or online at http://lenfest.wlu.
edu.

Across
1 Shark with a Maori
name

5 Cleans the poop

10 Roswell sightings

14 Mimicker

I5 Wine-niaking grape

I6 Hephaestus’ mother

'27 George and Bob
with sitcoms

20 Some ice chests

2! Inheritor, often

22 "Goilyl"

23 Chi Psi follower

26 Turn like a dervish

28 Dork with glasses

30 Request at the
barbershop

32 A&E spinoff, brieﬂy

33 Muscat native

36 Denver, for one

39 George and Bob
with universities

42 Not blabbing

43 Judd or Caznpbeli

44 Santa WW,
California

45 TV‘s Barbara

47 Bro

51 Religion with the
Horned God

54 Spud 

57 C heck for accuracy

58 Unliealthy looking

60 Say with certainty

62 George and Bob
with Inu.lti»plati.m.2:n
albums

65 Language mm

66 intestine section

67 Bounce, in slang

68 Makes a 605 shirt
69 Wait with

indifference
70 Tennis scoring units

George and Bob by Neville L. Fog-arty

Head over to ringtumphicrossword.blogspot.com to check your solution to this weeks puzzle?

 

E 2 3 4 5 (5 7 3 n in ll :2 13
:4 is in
E7 ix W
I
2e 27
3: 22
34 37 3x
4? as 49 so
55 56 57
{iii at
(:3 ()3 at
(:5 66 0?
68 {+9 7:;
Down 24 Sicilian mount 48 Punching bags, in
1 Defame 25 Betrayed satisfaction C3”°°“5
2 Orbital point 27 His wife became salt ‘*9 T"lCi"~9*3"

3 Studier of 2»Down, 29
among other things 3;

1

4 Cookie in cookies ‘in

cream 34
5 Involuntary fit
6 Ta.k.e the pennant 35
7 Common 37
conjunction
8 Tree in an office 38
9 Dance with African
roots 39
19 "Yeah"
11 Fitting the ‘
parameters 40

12 Some planetariums 41
13 Took a load off 42
18 Bronx attraction

19 "omoz" 46

Two tablets, perhaps 50
"Powerpuff Girls“

"llead of the Wm

—C2H5 funct ional
groups

«I

U

( "Aladdin" song)
"Moons  my
,,,,,,,,,, N" (_i)e:rny‘s dish’)
Female gametes
1989 film "The
Adxrentnres of Milo

Ii

Marbles and such

Lcpidopterisfs need
l{erecord audio

villian 52

"Hey WW?" (What 53 upmlcc
they say in Jamaica)

Beilum lead~in 55

Jamie L nn "' 

now y Sp“ C 56

199?. Barenakeci 59

Ladies single

MW of Magic A and rm
(“Harry Potter” 51
’m1reat:.cracy) 62 Dttawn
Way to order 63

SNIJS Carvey 64

2004 film with

cassette tapes
A fesitvat oflights

  

MONDAY, MAY 18, 2009

  

4 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

  
     
 

            

Tuss WED Tuuns FRI SAT
at
Wome_n’s NCAA Indlvldual
Tenms championships
Men's 3*
hack NCAA Championships
Women's at
Track NCAA championships

 

numbers
33

The number of consecutive matches Rafael Nadal won on clay courts
before Roger Federer beat him (6-4, 6-4) in the championships of the

Madrid Open Sunday.

2

The number of pitches thrown by Angels starting pitcher John Lackey
in his season debut Saturday, after he was ejected for hitting Rangers

second baseman lan Kinsler. The Angels lost the game 3-5.

.333

Tampa Bay Rays starting pitcher Andy Sonnanstine’s batting average
after a pregame lineup mistake forced him to bat in the Rays‘ 7-5 win
over the Indians Sunday. Manager Joe Maddon submitted a lineup
card that listed Evan Longoria and Ben Zobrist as thirdbasemen and

excluded a designated hitter.

 

box

“I think he was comfortable with the people he

was around. But I think the circumstances made
him uncomfortable.  There was a little uneasi-
ness on both sides.”

Los Angeles Dodgers manager Joe Torre on Manny Ramirez’s visit to
the team’s hotel to apologize for his 50-game suspension for violating
MLB’s drug policy. Courtesy of espn.com.

“We feel great about that. l’ve been on those
Knicks teams where he had some predictions. 
But the Patrick prediction makes me feel better.”

Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers after Orlando Magic assistant

coach Patrick Ewing guaranteed a win for the Magic in game seven

gt the teams’ NBA playoff series Sunday. Courtesy of the Orlando
entinel.

“The hiring of A.J., I thought, was a poor decision.
 He doesn.’t have any credibility between the
lines as a manager. That, for me, just wasn’t go-
ing to work.”

Former Arizona Diamondbacks pitching coach Bryan Price, who
resigned after the Diamondbacks fired manager Bob Melvin, on the
hiring of 35-year-old A.J. Hinch two weeks ago. Courtesy of the Marin
independent Journal.

“Who wants to be playing baseball when there
are streamers everywhere? It wasn’t funny. It
wasn’t fun. It was brutal. When was the last time
you’ve seen that at a baseball game? I under-
stand having a pompom giveaway, but you need
to get the right kind of pompoms that don’t fall
apart.”

Florida Marlins second baseman Dan Uggla after a game Saturday in
which strands from a pompom promotional giveaway covered Land
Shark Stadium. The Marlins broke a five-game losing streak, beating
the Dodgers 6-3. Courtesy of yahoo.sports.com.

W&L falls in NCAAS

Baseball loses to Salisbury, Washington & Jeﬂerson to end season

By Megan Dally
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball
team fell to Salisbury 2-3 on Wednesday
and Washington & Jefferson (W&J) 3-8
to Thursday in the double-elimination
NCAA Division III tournament.

Coming off the baseball team’s ﬁrst-
ever ODAC championship, the Generals
were hoping to keep their momentum
rolling. F irst-year outﬁelder Brian Sellier
said the team was not nervous to start the
tournament. “It’s a special opportunity
for the team since we have never been
this far before. As soon as we got here,
we have all been really loose because we
know that we belong,” he said.

On the opening day of South Region
play on Wednesday at Arthur W. Perdue
Stadium, the eighth-seeded Generals
were matched up with the top-seeded and
nationally third-ranked Salisbury.

W&L grabbed a 2-0 lead in the third
inning on a two-run single by junior
catcher Will Lewis. This drove in junior
third baseman Jim Plantholt and senior
centerﬁelder Terrence McKelvey.

In the bottom half of the third, the Sea
Gulls loaded the bases with no outs. They
amassed two runs tying the game at 2.
And then in the fourth inning on an RBI
double, Salisbury took the 3-2 lead.

“We just didn’t pull it together,” Plan-
thold said. “We didn’t just have a chance;
we should have won. It was so close, 3
to 2. We played well, but there was still
some left in the tank.”

W&L outhit the Sea Gulls 7-2 and re-
ceived a great showing from junior right-
hander Chuck Davidson, who held the
nation’s most productive offense to just
two hits and three runs. Salisbury went
into the tournament having scored an av-
erage of 10.8 runs per game.

McKelvey led W&L, going 3-for-4
at the plate with two doubles and a run
scored. Lewis was 1-for-3 with a pair of
RBI, and Plantholt was 1-for-3 with a run
scored. Davidson gave up just one un-
earned run and two walks in eight innings

but took the loss.

The Generals returned to South Re-
gional action on Thursday taking on ﬁfth-
seeded W&J.

W&J bats were hot in the ﬁrst inning
as they took a quick 5-0 lead. They piled
up three singles, a pair of walks, a hit bat-
ter and one General error to amass their
runs. The Presidents extended their lead
to 7-0 in the fourth inning on an RBI
single.

runs batted in (28) and Peyster ﬁnished
second with 27.

The loss ends the Generals’ season
at 22-15, the seventh time in the last ten
seasons that W&L has posted at least
20 wins. As four senior baseball players
graduate this spring, they have set a new
expectation and standard for the future of
Generals’ baseball.

Senior pitcher and ﬁrst baseman An-
drew Henderson gave his ﬁnal thoughts

“Everyone truly loved playing on that ﬁeld with one an-

other It was a season players and fans will remember for

years to come. It was the best team I ’ve ever been a part

Of!)

Andrew Henderson, senior pitcher/first baseman
 

In the eighth inning, W&L ﬁnally re-
corded a run. McKelvey singled Plantholt
home to make it 7-1. After W&J scored in
the top of the ninth to make it 8-1, W&L
scored a pair of runs in the bottom half
of the inning on an RBI single by se-
nior second baseman Byron Peyster and
a sacriﬁce ﬂy by sophomore rightﬁelder
Anthony Cardona to account for the ﬁnal
score of 8-3.

Senior righthander Brendan Clark
started and took the loss (4-3) for the Gen-
erals. He allowed seven runs (3 earned)
on seven hits and four walks in ﬁve in-
nings of work. He struck out ﬁve.

At the plate, McKelvey once again
paced the Generals, going 1-for-4, with an
RBI. McKelvey also ﬁnished the season
leading the Generals in batting average
(.421) and slugging percentage (.643).
First-year outﬁelder Mike Decembrino
added a pinch-hit single, and junior ﬁrst
baseman Hunter Serenbetz had a double
in his four at bats. Peyster and Cardona
both ﬁnished 1-for-3 with an RBI. Car-
dona ﬁnished the season with the most

on the 2009 season. “It was great to see
the team come together throughout the
entire season. Of course no one really
considered us a contender coming into
the season, but we worked extremely hard
up until the last day of the tournament to
become a cohesive team.

“Everyone truly loved playing on that
ﬁeld with one another. It was a season
players and fans will remember for years
to come. It was the best team I’ve ever
been a part of.”

Wednesday's Score ‘
W&L 2»
Salisbury 3

Th ursday’s Score
wan. , 3
war 8

Golf places 17th at NCAAs

Gibson, Watts leaa’ Generals with 5 1 st place ﬁnish

By Will Dorrance
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee golf team
ended its 2009 season with a 17th place
ﬁnish at the NCAA tournament this past
Wednesday through Saturday. Thirty-six
teams participated in the four-day nation-
al tournament at the PGA Village in Port
St. Lucie, Fla.

The Generals qualiﬁed for the NCAA
tournament by winning the ODAC tour-
nament April 18-20.

Oglethorpe earned ﬁrst place by
shooting a +12 overall (301-284-290-
289-1164). Oglethorpe’s sophomore
Olafur Loftsson won the individual title
(75-73-68-69—285) after beating La
Veme’s junior Mitchell F edorka in a one-
hole playoff.

Juniors Joe Gibson (73-70-83—79—
305) and Brad Watts (77-75-75-78—-305)
led the Generals, tying for 51st overall at
+17. Junior Robert Womble was next in

line for W&L, ﬁnishing in a tie for 76th
place at +22 (75-83-75-77~3 10). Junior
Matt Langan was +33 on the four-day
tournament, tying for 108th (84-77-78-
82v321). In his last collegiate tourna-
ment, senior Andrew Green carded a
+35 for a 114th place tie (78-80-83-82—
323).

After the ﬁrst day of the tournament,
the Generals were tied for 19th place with
a team score of 303. On Thursday and
Friday, W&L fought ‘its way up to 15th
place with scores of 302 and 311, respec-
tively. On Saturday, the ﬁnal day, the
team dropped to 17th place after shooting
its worst collective round, 316.

The team ﬁnished this year’s NCAA
tournament one spot behind its 16th
place ﬁnish last season. And the Gener-
als distributed the workload more evenly
this year as they lost their star Nathaniel
James to graduation; James, a current as-
sistant coach for the team, tied for third at
last year’s national tournament.

Watts, Gibson and Langan, the three

players who played in both the 2008 and
2009 NCAA tournaments, all improved
on their individual ﬁnishes. Watts tied
for 70th last year (51st in 2009); Gibson
tied for 87th last year (5lst in 2009); and
Langan tied for 110th last year (108th in
2009).

Before NCAAs, Watts spoke of the
team’s goals against the stiff competition.
“In any tournament your goal is to win,
but with a 16th place ﬁnish last year, we
are looking to improve on that and hope-
fully ﬁnish in the top 10."

Although the team did not meet
Watts’s goal, W&L ends its season with
a top-20 ﬁnish in the NCAA tournament
for the second consecutive year. The
Generals have also now won the confer-
ence crown two years in a row.

W&L will only lose two seniors from
this year’s team, Green and Beau Allen.
With a roster full of underclassmen talent
to return for next year, the team seems to
have a bright future ahead of itself.

  
 

 

9'

