  

  

Cast of “ Play it Again, -Sam” ‘
captivates audience in the
comedy by Woody Allen '

ARTS & LIFE / page 4  

  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17,2008

BY THE

STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME GXII, NUMBER 9

China after
the Beijing
Olympics

Panel discusses effects
of 2008 Olympics on
Chinese infrastructure
and liberties

By Llzz Dye
STAFF wrmzn

A panel of students and teachers discussed
how China has changed since the Beijing Sum-
mer Olympics last Thursday. “What’s Up With
Asia?” was led by Chinese history Prof. David
Bello and East Asian art Prof. Joan O’Mara.

O’Mara was staying in Duanhang last summer
with a group of art historians when the torch was
scheduled to pass by. When O’Mara tried to leave
the building to watch the event, she encountered a
lock on the front door and an attendant who told
her the group was not allowed to leave.

Instead, O’Mara andtlie -rest of the group--~~ 

were shipped out of town to a hotel three hours
away where they viewed the event on television.
Despite the positive aspects of her trip, includ-
ing lavish Olympic decorations and beautiful art,
O’mara’s lasting impression was being locked in-
side, for fear that she and other westerners might
cause a scene.

Bello focused on the stereotypical western
views of China and discussed his personal ex-
periences in China. Bello has spent about two
months each year since 1988 in China learning
about their culture and observing the changes in
culture, politics, the economy and other aspects
of Chinese life.

Bello said the 2008 Olympics were positive
in that they led to improved infrastructural trans-
portation in Beijing, including the construction of
many new subway lines, which should decrease
the city’s notorious air pollution.

With an authoritarian government, China is
able to act quickly and efﬁciently and make rapid
decisions, such as transforming Beijing for the
Olympics, Bello said. The construction of the
Beijing Olympic Stadium, the world’s largest
steel structure, was begun in 2005 and ﬁnished
just three years later.

Although the government is authoritarian, it
tolerates a much wider range of dissidence than
it once did, Bello said. He showed two pictures
taken by artist Ai Weiwei. In one, a hand ﬂicks
off ‘the White House and in the other is the same
gestured directed at Tiananmen Square.

The panel demonstrated that China is neither
“an absolute dictatorship nor a democracy. China
appears to have more lenience towards certain

forms of dissidence and more freedom for its
peoples, but the government still has a great deal
of control and is not hesitant to use it to further
its agenda.

 

 

  ADPi arrives

Some women concerned, Panhellenic tries to ease woes

By Allison Chopin
MANAGING EDITOR

Sorority recruitment will be a
little different this year with the in-
stallment of Alpha Delta Pi, Wash-
ington and Lee’s newest sorority, but
Panhellenic and the Ofﬁce of Greek
Life say there’s no reason to worry.

The Panhellenic Council voted

unanimously to welcome a sixth ‘

sorority to campus last year, accord-
ing to Teri Cugliari, Assistant Direc-
tor of Student Activities and Greek
Life and the advisor to Panhellenic.
She thinks this should be evidence
enough that ADPi is a good thing for
W&L.

There have been murmurs that
sorority women are afraid that ADPi
will disrupt the current social sys-
tem. But Cugliari said this opinion is
not the majority.

“People in the sorority system
view it as a good thing,” she said.
“Overall, the attitude is very posi-
tive.”

She said that upperclassmen
women recognize that the new so-
rority will allow the sororities to
have smaller pledge classes and
therefore develop a stronger bond of
sisterhood. Many feel that the cur-
rent sorority size is too big.

She also shared that there does
not seem to be an abundance of neg-
ative talk about ADPi between cur-

rent sorority women and ﬁrst-years.

“We. have a really positive Pan-
hellenic community,” she said. ‘‘It
is against recruitment regulations to
talk badly about any sorority.” And
this year, there has been extra sup-
port for ADPi and the Greek com-
munity.

But Cugliari didn’t deny that
many are nervous about recruitment
this year, particularly ﬁrst-year stu-
dents.

“It’s hard to understand some-
thing you’ve never been a part of,”
she said. And since ADPi is new, no
one on campus quite understands it
yet.

Some ﬁrst-year women may be
concerned that ADPi will create a
different experience from the exist-
ing sororities.

But Cugliari said that ADPi’s
new members will enjoy a “sur-
prisingly similar experience.” For
example, plans are being made to
ensure that the members will have a
common place to live and meet for
chapter meetings, just like the other
ﬁve sororities.

Many ﬁrst-year women recognize
the advantages of becoming part of
ADPi’s ﬁrst’ pledge class at W&L,
according to one ﬁrst-year.

“l have heard a lot of girls talking
about ADPi and mostly in a posi-
tive light,” said this ﬁrst-year. “They
are excited to be able to ‘start’ the

new sorority and sort of deﬁne it in
a way.”

Another ﬁrst-year said, “Most
halls recently had a meeting. . .about
all the exciting opportunities of be-
ing a charter member, and it seems
like some girls are starting to con-
sider ADPi a very exciting option.”

But some are still concerned, par-
ticularly if they would rather pledge
another group.

I “Some girls heard that ADPi will

“I have heard a lot of
girls talking about ADPi
and mostly in a positive
light. ” '

First-year female student
 

be able to take a lot more girls than
the other srats, so they are afraid of
being ‘forced’ into joining,” said
one student. “[They are afraid] they
won’t get a bid from their ﬁrst choice
because ADPi needs a full pledge
class.”

It’s true thatADPi will be allowed
to have a larger pledge class. Cugli-
ari said that the new sorority will be
allowed to give bids to up to half of

the potential new member class——
this means half of the women going
through formal recruitment. But she
said that ADPi will not necessarily
extend this many bids.

She also emphasized that while
the existing sororities will have
smaller pledge classes, there is not
yet a number for how many new
members each one will take. This
number cannot be determined until
the night before Bid Day.

“I really want to stress that,” she
said. “There are no numbers yet.”

Cugliari also explained that ju-
niors and seniors wishing to join
ADPi will not have to go through
formal recruitment in January, but
ADPi has chosen not to give these
bids until Bid Dayéthe same day
ﬁrst-years and sophomores going
through recruitment will receive
their bids.

Recruiting for a new sorority is
obviously difﬁcult since there are no

— existing members at W&L. But Cug-

liari is pleased with the way ADPi
has made a presence on campus dur-
ing informal recruitment this term,
such as with a recent philanthropy
event. Arepresentative of ADPi, Vic-
toria Moger, has frequently been on
campus. Moger could not be reached
for comment this weekend.

“They have taken advantage of
all the opportunities to inform peo-
ple about ADPi,” said Cugliari.

The Wild, Wild Web

Law school hosts symposium on challenges of free speech in digital age

By Queenie Wong
STAFF WRITER

The unﬁltered nature and speed
of the Internet has changed how
journalists gather news, how law-
yers and judges interpret free speech
and how politicians conduct their
campaigns, a group of law and jour-
nalism experts said last week at an
annual symposium.

The two-day event entitled “The
Wild, Wild Web” highlighted the
challenges facing free speech in a
technology driven era. It was a joint
effort by Washington and Lee’s De-
partment of Journalism and Mass
Communications and the School of
Law.

“The Internet is inherently differ-
ent than all other media that preced-
ed it. There is a need to have radical
changes in the law in the developing
community,” said Erwin Chemerin-
sky, dean of the University of Cali-
fornia at Irvine Law School.

Other speakers included Jeanne
Cummings and John Harris of P0-
litico.com, Jim Brady of Washing-
tonpost.com and Chief Judge Alex

Kozinski from the U.S. Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals. University faculty
also participated in the discussions.
Students and faculty began the
symposium Friday at the Millhiser
Moot Court Room with a mock Su-
preme Court exercise led by Dean
of the Law School, Rodney Smolla.
In the “user generated lecture,” au-

“The Internet is inher-
ently different... There is

a need to have radical

I

changes in the law. ’

Erwln Chemerinsky, Dean of Law
Schol, Univ. of Calif. at Irvine
 

dience members debated and dis-
cussed the fate of a make-believe
college gossip site called sleazycam-
pus.com.

Harris, Politico’s editor-in-chief,
and Brady, executive editor of Wash-
ingtonpost.com, highlighted the
challenges journalists face as they
try to balance speed and accuracy in

a 24-hour news cycle.

Chemerinsky noted in his speech
that the deﬁnition of a journalist has
become unclear in recent years with
the emergence of blogs. Today any-
one can be a journalist, he said.

Judge Kozinski also pointed out

that the traditional mainstream me- '

dia is being replaced by anonymous
bloggers, whose identities are dif-
ﬁcult to unveil. Once information
reaches the Internet, there is very lit-
tle courts can do to contain speech in
a viral environment, he said. The so-
lution to these problems won’t come
from the court or the First Amend-
ment, he argued.

“May it rest in peace,” said Koz-
inski of the First Amendment.

Smolla disagreed, arguing that
mainstream media outlets are still
vulnerable to being sued.

“To some degree in terms of ac-
countability it’s only the big players
that matter anyway,” he said.

On Saturday, the focus of the
event shifted to political speech on
the web in a morning panel discus-
sion.

Cummings, Politico’s Chief Lob-

bying and Money Correspondent,
Politics Prof. Bob Strong and Dean
Smolla were the panelists. Each
raised questions about the future of

journalism, politics and law, discuss-

ing the media coverage of the 2008
presidential election.

“There’s absolutely no question
in my mind that this election was in-
ﬂuenced by. . .the bias of the media,”
said Betsy Gibson, a part-time resi-
dent of Lexington.

Cummings disagreed with the
argument that the media favored
Barack Obama.

“At a certain level you just got to
cover the car wreck in front of you
and if it’s not good. . .there’s just not
a whole lot you can do about it,”
she said, referring to John McCain’s
campaign.

Brian Richardson, head of the

journalism department, moderated

the panel discussion.

The Donald W. Reynolds Foun-
dation, a national philanthropic or-
ganization, funded the event with a
$50,000 grant. The total cost of the
symposium hasn’t been fully calcu-
lated yet, said Richardson.

 

 

 

 

metre‘?

 Y
‘WASMNGTON & LEE utwﬁittift

uzxmeronve 24450
HQV Z 9 2038.

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

MONDAY,

Conditions in Eastern Europe

Speakers highlight political and social issues in the Balkans and Chechnya

By Vlctoria Taylor
8 TA F F W RITE R

Lectures on Muslim refugees
in Poland and political progress
in the Balkans offered Washing-
ton and Lee students two very
different views on current Euro-
pean social and political issues
this week.

Both events were open to the
public and were well attended,
with both nearly ﬁlling their lec-
ture classroom venues.

Ola Chrzanowska, who

‘. works for the Polish Associa-

l

tion for Legal Education in the
Warsaw and provides legal and
psychological aid to ‘Chechen
refugees seeking government
protection, spoke on Wednes-
day about the cultural clash and
problems of assimilation for
Muslims in Poland.

Poland is the home to the
largest group of Chechen refu-
gees,‘who make up over 90 per-
cent of the nation’s total asylum
seekers.

However, gaining status as
a political refugee is difficult as
Polish authorities are very strict.
Each person must provide evi-
dence that they are or were at
risk of being persecuted.

Those not granted asylum

can only stay in Poland for
twelve months, so many try
starting new lives in other Euro-
pean countries.

Chechens have a distinct
culture that values tradition, re-
spect and pride and the Chechen

‘refugees try to maintain their

identity.

Chrzanowska said that the
pride the Chechens have for
their homeland cannot be ex-
pressed verbally and that they
feel that to be Chechen is a type
of vocation and a way of life.

According to Chrzanowska,
many Chechens ﬂee to Europe
because they believe that it is
impossible to live and raise their

families in the divided political .

environment in Chechnya.
Almost all of the refugees
Chrzanowska interviewed plan
to return to their homeland once
they feel it is safe.
Chrzanowska said that
Chechen family friends brought
her into their lives and intro-
duced her to their culture. From
there, she saw that there were a
lot of problems that “no one had
really tried to go into.”
“I didn’t plan it,” Chr-
zanowska said. “When it. came
time to write my thesis, I saw

INEENTIVE

As a recent college glad, you may
be eligible for a. $400 Incentive
on any new Toyota of your choice

» in addition to other incentives.“
 See your Toyota dealer for details

+-

ta.com

for additional offers

the opportunity.”

Chechnya is located north of
Georgia on the southern border
of Russia. It declared its inde-
pendence from Russia in 1991,
causing then Russian president
Boris Yeltsin to send in troops.

Russia reﬁised to recognize

ership in Chechnya. The current
president, Rarnzan Kadyrov, has
the support of former Russian
President Vladimir Putin.

Anna Brodsky, the direc-
tor of the Russian Area Studies
Program, said that many people
are not as aware of the problems

“The truth of the matter is that we are very

close to it. The American government was

not just an impartial observer [in the Second
Chechen War]. It took sides. ”

Anna Brodsky, professor of Russian Area Studles

Chechnya as an independent
nation and tried to stop the se-
cession in the First Chechen
War, which lasted from 1994 to
1996.

The Second Chechen War
started in 1999 when Russian
federal forces tried to reestab-
lish control over the area. They
were met with a great deal of
resistance but the Russians were
able to create pro-Russian lead-

in Chechnya as they should be.
She said that the Clinton admin-
istration supported the billions
of dollars in loans to Russia that
Yeltsin used to wage war on
Chechnya and that the United
States endorsed the genocidal
Second Chechen War, which re-
duced the population by nearly
half.

“It seems that it’s out there
but the truth of the matter is

that we are very close to it. The
American government was not
just an impartial observer. It
took sides,” she said.

Ambassador Hans Ola
Urstad, a Norwegian diplomat
who is the head of the Organiza-
tion for Security and Coopera-
tion in Europe, spoke on Thurs-
day about what he feels have
been positive developments in
Serbia and the Balkans after the
communist Milosevic presiden-
cy ended in October of 2000.

The area was devastated in
the years leading up to and af-
ter the end of Milosevic’s reign,
which was characterized by ter-
ror campaigns and genocide, re-
ferred to as “ethnic cleansing,”
to clear non-Serbs from Bosnia.

The people worried about
rebuilding a positive image.
Hospitals had barely enough
equipment to function. The un-
employment rate was between
40 and 45 percent and“the inﬂa-
tion rate was sky high.

Urstad seemed optimistic
about the current state of Serbia,
which he feels is “in the process
of normalization,” as it tries to
join the European Union.

He said that Serbia is recov-
ering from the economic dev-

astation that it faced during the
90s. The unemployment rate has
gone down to 17 percent and the
inﬂation rate is under control
plus or minus 10 percent.

According to Urstad, Serbia
has also captured all but two of
the major war criminals from
the Milosevic era and is moving
more towards capitalism. The
country’s main goal is to have a
stable government. He also said
that the OSCE has been working
to reestablish the public trust in
the once corrupt law enforce-
ment agents by training those
who train the police oﬂicers and
by creating a new police acad-
emy.

Urstad is happy with the
progress that has been made, de-
spite the complications caused
by Serbia’s refusal to acknowl-
edge Kosovo as an independent
nation, even though it declared
its independence from Serbia in
February.

“All in all I would say that
we are seeing huge develop-
ments,” Urstad said.

®rovorA

moving forward

  lluyatoyotacom

  

NOVEMBER 17, 2008

 

‘y.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI ' 3

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2008

opinions

 

letter to the editor

‘Bookstore’ a ﬁction

Professor Adams thinks the bookstore
should have more, you know, books

I understand that ﬁnancial requirements have been imposed
upon the W&L “bookstore” by the administration and trustees.
Even so for years W&L had a tiny little bookshop squeezed into the
old Co-op that managed to have a ﬁne selection of important older
books in many ﬁelds along with a tempting array of new publica-
tions. It then moved to an impressive new space—and promptly
entered upon a steady decline of replacing books (go look at what
were planned as bookshelves) with clothes, candy, make-up and
the like.

I long ago gave up on the intellectual embarrassment of this
ever sorrier space. Still today I was saddened yet again when, re-
alizing I needed a new edition of Dickens’s Great Expectations,
I foolishly thought it reasonable to expect a standard Oxford or
Penguin paperback of this old standby to be there. Where a few
months ago there had been a shelf with Dickens on it—that same
shelf was now crammed with shot-glasses and combo corkscrew
cigarette lighters.

The now even smaller “literature” section with less Dickens and
no Pip had been shunted off to the side as a kind of freak show from
a quaint past. Here is an important face and symbol of W&L——one
we deliberately present to ourselves, to visitors, and to prospective
students and their families. Now I understand that I shouldn’t be
“shocked, shocked” to see the proﬁt-motive at work.

Clearly, from one perspective it’s a good thing for W&L to put
money in its pocket by actually selling drug paraphernalia (some-
times to underage students) with its logo on it than not to sell books.
But I would submit that it’s still something of a disappointment that
we no longer even try to promote reading through our university
“bookstore.”

I also realize that there are many rationalizations and arguments
by which one can resist ﬁnding any larger symbolism in this sorry
parable of how shot glasses ousted Great Expectations at W&L.
Indeed we may all choose optimistically to see the glass half full
with cash, and avert our eyes from how completely full it is with
Southern Comfort. But I do think it fair to discern in this bottom
line acumen a symbol of something disturbing and true about the
institutional priorities of W&L. We hear a lot these days about
leading a national conversation on the liberal arts. One can only
hope that as things stand now that never comes true—not that I
have any great expectation that it will.

Sincerely,

Edward Adams
Associate Professor of English

Not Hillary  

Please don ’t make her
the Secretary of State

By Cody Beauchamp
OPINIONS EDITOR

The best election sketch of
the year - hands down - was
Tina Fey and Amy Phoeler’s
SNL opener where Fey’s Palin meets Phoeler’s Hillary Clinton.

The sketch perfectly hit on the frustrations that have to be going
through Hillary’s mind every time she sees, thinks about, or hears
about President-elect Obama.

If only I had wanted it a little more...she mutters.

It seems cruel, given how close she came to being this year’s
historically important candidate de jour, to attack or deny Senator
Clinton anything else.

She’s already been denied a pretty enviable spot in history as
the ﬁrst ‘minority President’ of any stripe, and she probably won’t
go down in history as the ﬁrst female President either.

She’ll be a footnote somewhere next to Geraldine Ferraro and
Jessie Jackson, with an asterisk also putting her somewhere near
Laura Bush and Chuck Schumer.

Big whoop.

So why not - the current Washington rumor mill seems to be
thinking - reward the good Senator with an important role in the
Obama cabinet?

It seems like a graceful way to recognize her importance as a
liberal voice of leadership. But it’s a terrible decision.

Let’s hope President-elect Obama doesn’t make it.

One need look no further than the vetting ‘application’ Obama’s
transition team is having nominees for executive branch posi-
tions ﬁll out to see why Clinton is a risky pick for the Secretary
of State.

Google the questionaire online and take a look for yourself.

Question No. 8’s a doozy - “Brieﬂy describe the most contro-
versial matters you have been involved with during the course of
your career.”

No. 12 will be living hell for some poor Clinton staffer: “Please
identify all speeches you have given...identify any recordings of
speeches of which you are aware.”

No. 62 is a great one: “Do you know anyone or any organiza-
tion, either in the private sector or government service, that might
take steps, overtly or covertly, fairly or unfairly, to criticize your
nomination, including any news organization?”

How many pages in do you think her staff will get before they
start summarizing and skimming?

That’s the point, really. Simply put - while Clinton has be-
come, deservedly so, a very important Senator, she’d be a terrible
pick for Obama’s Secretary of State.

Picking her would be picking a radioactive candidate. Even
with a Democratically controlled Senate, she’s the kind of nomi-
nee that would give even the most liberal approvals committee
pause.

Besides which, if Obama picked Clinton he would be passing
over a number of more qualiﬁed possible picks in the interests of
making a tactless and unnecessary political gesture.

That doesn’t seem like a good idea to me. It also doesn’t seem
like the kind of political move Obama would make.

Let’s all hope he stays true to form and keeps Clinton a senator.

Election from abroad

Dane Davis tells how London watched Obama ’s win

By Dane Davls
COLUMNIST

Growing up, one of my favorite holidays I

came every year during November. I am
talking, of course, about the great Ameri-
can holiday of Election Day. Going back as»
far as I can remember, my mom would take
me after school to our local precinct. After
getting her ballot, she and I would vote to-
gether. She made all of the actual decisions;
I merely punched in the chads.

Needless to say, it was a bit bittersweet
that the ﬁrst presidential election in which
I had a say occurred while I was studying
abroad in London. Voting by absentee bal-
lot doesn’t even come close to the experi-
ence of voting in a voting booth. I wasn’t
discouraged though, since being abroad

» during a major political election was a once

in a lifetime opportunity. I took it upon my-
self to do some investigative journalism to
see what the world thought of America and
its election. Geraldo Rivera, watch out.

Whenever I talked with someone who
wasn’t an American, the subject would
always come up. “What do you think of
Baiack Obama?”, “Do you think he can ac-
tually win?”, and “Are you excited for the
election?” were questions always asked.
Sometimes, I didn’t even have «to say any-
thing for discussion of the American elec-
tion to become the conversation topic. In at
least three classes out of four, the profes-
sor would reference Barack Obama and the
election. In one student’s outline that she
passed out to the class, the top of the paper
has a small smiley face with the comment
“Congrats to Obama!” next to it. The Unit-
ed Kingdom, I quickly discovered, had a
case of Obamania. Not surprisingly, I never
once heard a reference to John McCain. He
was “that one,” to borrow his own words,
that was running against Obama.

On the night of the actual election, the
school hosted a viewing party in the com-
mons. My friends and I were shocked to
discover thousands of students standing to
watch CNN. As the early returns trickled in,
shouts of praise or jeers of booing accom-
panied CNN’s projections of the winner
of each state. It was as if the crowd were
watching a football game instead of an
election. I was further surprised to see that
a majority, or at the very least a plurality,
of the students there were not Americans.
Students from every comer of the world
packed together in the cramped common

emment, economic system, culture, etc.
But what explains this strong passion, posi-
tive and negative, the rest of the world has
with America?

It could be our immense economic, po-
litical, cultural, and military power. Every-
one watches the lone superpower, since its
decisions affect billions. The dollar remains
the world currency and English is the‘ de
facto language of global politics. American
entertainment reaches the radios and tele-
visions of people from across the world. I
think, however, that it is something more
than that. America’s ongoing experiment

On the night of the actual election, the school hosted a

viewing party in the commons. My friends and I were

shocked to discover thousands of students standing to

watch CNN. ..

 

room, eyes glued till 4 a.m., eagerly watch-
ing the results.

With the recent economic crisis, there
have been talks of a loss of America’s glob-
al leadership. Sitting in the midst of people
from all over the globe intently watching
in on our elections, I found these claims of
a post-American world hard to believe. I
couldn’t imagine hundreds of college stu-
dents, even at the very political London
School of Economics, staying up till mom-
ing to see the election results of Germany,
Japan, or India. I was amazed to witness
ﬁrst hand how the rest of the world watches
the United States. To be certain, not all of
the attention on America is positive. Most
Europeans are quick to list a series of com-
plaints they have with the recent U.S. gov-

with democracy is a bold statement to the
rest of the world. The United States stands
for the simple but profound proposition that
men and women can govern themselves
without tyrants or monarchs to achieve
prosperity, peace, and liberty. The world
watches America, to see not only if this
declaration is possible but also if America
and her citizens can live up to it. Can 300
million persons of diverse interests, beliefs,
races, and creeds stay together and remain
free? For if so, then there is real hope for
the rest of the world. Looking across the
pond from London, viewing a invigorating
election that drew out millions, I have to
say that America continues to be the “last,
best hope of earth.”

Write for thelPhi s
Opinions section!

Do you want to be a voice of W&L’s students?
is something really getting under your skin?
Do you want to get great writing experience?

Write what you're passionate about.

Write for the Phi!

Contact Opinions Editor Cody Beau-
champ at beauchampc@wlu.edu or

phi@wlu.edu

WASHINGTON AND LEE UIWERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

“Io
the Re!  [ 

/ DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

111?.
Washington
Street

Local lood Progressive cuisine.

Serving dinner Monday through Saturday and
Lexingtonls he-st Sunday Brunch.
Lunch from IIOO to 2 weekdays

Great wines, heers, and cocktails served with

lighter lare until ll Thurs.-Sat.

Reservations are recommended

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING-TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT
MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU. THE MEDIA BOARD
IS AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO EDIT

SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE RING-TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS OF LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

LEE CAMPUS.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELEST CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE
BRETT HOLTON
MICHAEL MORELLA

CRIGHTON ALLEN
DANE DAVIS

RACHEL DENNISTON
LIZZ DYE

STEPHANIE HARDIMAN
WILL MAYS

BROOKE SUTHERLAND
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR
KIMBER WIGGS
QUEENIE WONG

LARA JORDAN
RYAN ELSEY
STROCK MOORE
CHARLES PERSONS
ROB GEORGE

 

  

 

   

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

M 0 N DAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2008

arts&|ife

 

Cast makes
Woody Allen Proud

Allen is “Play it Again, Sam ” tells
story of neurotic romance

By Kimber Wiggs
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee welcomed “Play It Again, Sam,” a com-
edy by Woody Allen, to the Keller stage in the Lenfest Center
for the Arts this weekend.

Woody Allen’s play follows the misadventures of Allan
Felix, a neurotic ﬁlm critic and Humphrey Bogart enthusiast,
who is thrust back into the dating world after his wife leaves
him. Uncomfortable wooing woman, Allan asks himself “What
would Bogart do?” What follows is a series of comical journeys
into Allan’s imagination, in which “Bogey” continually appears
to give him dating advice and in which the women he desires
fall at his feet.

Unfortunately, when Allan emerges from his imagination,
the results of Bogey’s advice and his ability to follow it fall far
short of the mark. Living in the early 1970s, Allan ﬁnds himself
unable to use Bogart’s hilariously womanizing techniques to
woo the independent women he meets. Allan’s inability to con-
nect with blind dates and women from bars leads him to acci-
dentally fall in love with the only woman with whom he shares
a real friendship: his best friend’s wife, Linda Christie.

Though Linda shares Allan’s feelings and they consummate
the romance while her husband Dick is away on a business trip,
the relationship is ultimately doomed, and the play ends with a
parody of the ﬁnal scene of “Casablanca,” as Allan explains to
Linda why she has to get on a plane with her husband instead of
staying behind with him.

“Play It Again, Sam” came to W&L as part of the senior the-
ses of Theater majors Helen Coupe, Matt Harkins and Tabitha
King. Directed by Coupe, the show starred Harkins and King in
the roles of Allan Felix and Linda Christie, both insecure and
unstable neurotics.

Also in lead roles were junior Kevin Mannering, who por-
trayed Dick, and sophomore Abigail Urquhart, who played
Allan’s ex-wife, Nancy. Mannering’s Dick was memorable for
being comically businesslike and unlikable for the majority of
the show and then intensely sympathetic at the end when he is
faced with the possibility of losing his wife.

The show also featured an ensemble of supporting char-
acters, many of whom were portrayed by actors making their
debut on the W&L theater scene. Most notable of these debut
performers was senior Ashton Sullivan, who portrayed Allen
Felix’s imaginary dating doctor, Humphrey Bogart. Sullivan’s
parody of Bogart as a constantly smoking and drinking woman-
izer was in perfect contrast to Harkins’s nervous, pill-popping
neurotic.

Bogart’s movies, particularly “Casablanca,” being the im-
petus for the play’s forays into Allan’s imagination, some of
the technical aspects of the show took on feel of watching a
movie. The play itself began with a giant projector screen play-
ing the ﬁnal scene from “Casablanca” that Allan recreates at the
end of the play. As the scene neared its end, the video switched
from the huge screen above the stage to the screen of the set’s
functional TV, in front of which Harkins’ reclined, watching the
ﬁlm. At the end of the play, the projector returned to scroll the
credits. The costuming totally captured the feel of the early 70s,
complete with hippies, go-go boots and leisure suits. The set de-
sign included a working refrigerator, in addition to the TV, and
gave the exact impression of the apartment of a 1970s bachelor:
a bachelor who decorated the place himself.

Overall, “Play It Again, Sam” offered an enjoyable night
at the theater. Several standout roles were particularly well-re-
ceived by the audience, including Gozi Egbuonu’s surprisingly
conservative sex ﬁend and Ellie Duvall’s adorable Allan Felix
fan whose praises--and lips--ease the sting of losing Linda.
The play had the look and feel of the 70s as Harkins and King
perfectly captured the essence of neurotic city dwellers, totally
dependent on medication and their analysts. In short, the play
was exactly the kind of thing Woody Allen would write, and‘ the
actors did an effective job of conveying Allen’s vision.

I JUNIORS/SENIORS
SAVE THE DATE

    

DINING ETIQUE
Thursday, Jan. 22, 2009
M Co—sponsored by
The Oﬁice of
Multicultural Aﬂairs

and
’WASI*lING'l‘€)N AND ’¥..I*Z.f*:1 UNIV'ERSI'.l‘Y

CAjREEReSERVICES

Mark Gordon, real—life pirate, speaks in Stackhouse

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

Mark Gordon, president of Odyssey Ma-
rine Exploration, who was invited by the
Contact Committee, spoke in the Stackhouse
Theater on Thursday regarding the rare in-
dustry of treasure hunting through underwa-
ter salvages. '

The Contactc Committee Chair Robin
Wright selected Gordon to give a presenta-
tion because she considered him to be “an
example of someone who found a way to
make a living while pursuing his passion.”

“He’s a living example of what makes
America so great.”

A pioneer in his industry, Gordon invent-
ed his corporation by fusing business and ar-
chaeology. His vision began as a childhood
dream. “As a small child I became enthralled
with the ocean explorations of Jacques Cous-
teau and began snorkeling and metal detect-
ing at the beach,” said Gordon.

The premise of his business model was
comprised of the knowledge that billions of
dollars lay at the bottom of the ocean, the
technology exists to ﬁnd the treasure and the
belief that archaeology and business can co-
exist. Gordon considers his passion to be a
“quest of discovery” and believes that trea-
sure is only one of the many things that his
explorations yield in addition to “stories of
cultures and people long lost to history.”

Students admired Gordon in his innova-
tive business endeavors. “He followed his
passion. Even though it didn’t seem possible
to make a living with it, Mr. Gordon created
a career for himself,” said Sarah Warsco,
who attended the presentation because she

was fascinated with treasure hunting.

“I hope that someday, my passion can be
my living too.” Gordon also related begin-
ning his business to that of the oil industry.
His company also follows the same principle
of the oil companies: “ﬁnd, keep, monetize”.

Odyssey Marine Exploration also recent-
ly discovered a sunken ship codenamed the
Black Swan. The ﬁnding of the Black Swan
yielded 17 tons of treasure that amounted to
nearly half a billion dollars. The treasure was

“As a small child I became
enthralled with. . Jacques
Cousteau and began snorkel-

ing and metal detecting. ”

Mark Gordon, President of Odyssey
Marine Exploration

found off the coast of Portugal in the Cape
of St. Mary.

Odyssey Marine Exploration is currently
involved in a court battle with Spain in re-
gards to the Black Swan. While legal battles
do not ﬁt into Gordon’s dream of treasure
hunting, Gordon considers them to be part of
reality.

“Unfortunately in our litigious society
anytime there is a lot of money at stake, there
always seems to be someone who views this
as an easy opportunity to enrich themselves,”
said Gordon.

Spain’s claim is based upon the concept _

of sovereign immunity. The Black Swan is
currently being investigated. It may be a

ship called Mercedes that was bringing back
goods from South America, which sovereign
immunity protects. The ship is predicted to
have sunk in the early 1800s.

Gordon is conﬁdent that Odyssey Marine
Exploration will win the case. If won, sover-
eign immunity will not apply, and all Spanish
ships will be free to others to salvage.

Starting Odyssey Marine Exploration
also came with unintended business conse-
quences. The company acquired a TV deal
with Discovery as well as three shipwreck
deals. In addition, Odyssey Marine Explora-
tion engaged in coin marketing deals.

Contact Committee members also found
Gordon’s presentation interesting.

“I thought Mark Gordon’s presentation
was fascinating and reached a variety of
academic ﬁelds, including history, science
and technology, business, economics, and
accounting, politics and law.” said Katie
Bean. However, Bean wished the more stu-
dents had attended in order to experience the
unique and far-reaching presentation.

Wright considered the event to be a suc-
cess.

“Anyone interested in business had some-
thing to learn from his business model, any-
one interested in law was fascinated by his
up-and-coming ﬁeld in deep-water shipwreck
recovery and its legal implications, and any-
one who simply had a fascination with ship-
wrecks and the deep sea got to enjoy hearing
from a pioneer in the ﬁeld,” she said.

Bond comes up short

“Quantum of Solace ” not as good as “Casino Royale ”

By Will Mays
smrr wrmsn

There are few characters in cinema that
have had such longstanding success as one

Mr. James Bond, and 2008’s “Quantum of

Solace” is sure to be no exception. After
2006’s “Casino Royale,” most Bond fans
across the world were relieved and excited
to see that the franchise still had fresh life in
it and could still compete with all the other
action ﬂicks Hollywood was willing to churn
out. With “Quantum,” though, viewers won’t
necessarily be disappointed, but they might
wonder what happened.

“Quantum of Solace” is by no means
a bad ﬁlm. It is a potentially ﬂawed ﬁlm,
but there is still much to be enjoyed. As
a ﬁlm, not much is actually wrong with
“Quantum,” but as the successor to “Casino
Royale,” there leaves much to be desired.
The biggest ﬂaw with 007’s newest venture
is that it’s almost as if it is a general action
ﬁlm that just so happens to feature a rug-
gedly smashing British superspy who goes

by James Bond. There are plenty of “Bond
moments” throughout the ﬁlm, but, on the
whole, there’s something altogether run of
the mill about the ﬁlm. Daniel Craig is still
electrifying, but it’s almost as if the world
around him has suddenly gotten a hearty
dose of bland, an ironic fact considering di-
rector Marc Forester, who’s never directed
an action ﬁlm, has decided to replace Casino
Royale’s cool suave with an imminent desire
to blow stuff up.

“Quantum” focuses on Bond’s desire for
revenge after the events of “Casino Royale,”
yet this tale of revenge lacks the sophistica-
tion and taut energy of direction that made
the earlier ﬁlm so outstanding. It’s almost
unfair to compare the two, yet the viewer
must. Bond simply doesn’t do much spying
in “Quantum,” but he almost gets away with
it. If anything, the blame lies with the ﬁlm-
makers. The screenplay lacks much of the
polish and pizzazz previously seen in Bond’s
last outing, and the direction is plagued by
bad pacing and too busy visuals. The new

villains lack the menace that has come to be
expected, and much of the ﬁght scenes are
so hard to follow that they could potentially
induce dizziness.

Still, “Quantum of Solace” is an enjoy-
‘able ﬁlm in its own way, but it does lack
many of the subtleties and intricacies that

helped make Bond’s redeﬁnition and reboot ‘

in “Casino Royale” so exciting. Whereas

I “Casino Royale” was almost a cerebral Bond

experience, “Quantum” has more explosions
than most every ﬁlm this side of the Michael
Bay collection. It will excite and delight, but
it will also leave the viewer wanting some-
thing more.

“Quantum of Solace” is still a better
Bond entry than most everything produced
since Roger Moore left the role, and it is a
solid Bond entry on the whole, but it does
having the misfortune of following one of
the strongest entries into the canon since the
glory days of Sean Connery. Regardless, go
see the ﬁlm, and know that the series still has
plenty of life in it.

Exhibit inspired by home

Dave Anderson is photography reminds him of his hometown

By Rachel Denniston
STAFF WRITER

Photographer Dave Anderson spoke to the
Washington and Lee community Wednesday
in the Wilson Concert Hall about his exhibi-
tion, “Rough Beauty,” now on display in the
Staniar Gallery at the Lenfest Center.

Rough Beauty is a collection of pho-

' tographs documenting life in the town of
Vidor, Texas and will remain on display
through Dec. 12. In addition, Anderson has
been working with students in the Art De-
partment this week as a Visiting Artist.

Anderson’s fascination with Vldor origi-
nated from its reputation as a “Klan Town.”
Anderson tries to help Vidor shake this out-
dated reputation in which he refers to as its,
“scarlet letter” and ﬁnally create a new iden-
tity for itself. In Rough Beauty, Anderson
captures the subtle beauty of Vidor through
what has been described as “haunting yet
powerful images.” ,

Most of the photographs in “Rough
Beauty” are portraits of the people who live
in Vidor.

As Anderson clicks through his slides of
photographs, he recalls stories about many if
not all of the subjects including “Little Miss
BBQ” and the “Red Neck Brady Bunch.”
Anderson says he has developed many valu-
able relationships with the people in Vidor.
There is a “sense of rock solid dependability
in people I got to know there,” he said. De-
pendability, Anderson said, “is something I
aspire to with the people in my life.”

Ever since Anderson left home for board-
ing school in ninth grade, he has deeply iden-
tiﬁed with the place he calls home, a place
in which he hasn’t lived in 25 years. From
this experience, Anderson became interested
in places with a strong identity and “Rough
Beauty,” he said, “is about such a place.”

Before becoming a photographer, Ander-
son worked for the Clinton administration

in the communications and media depart-
ment, MTV’s “Choose or Lose”'bus and an
independent movie studio called Madstone.
Anderson says he has always had interest in
photography but it was not until he was in-
spired by the work of another photographer,
Keith Carter, that Anderson began to pursue

it as a career.

Anderson’s work is largely inﬂuenced
by the Andrew Smith Gallery in Santa Fe,
photographer Fazal Sheikh and his teacher,
Michael Kenna.

Anderson and “Rough Beauty” have
received widespread acclaim. “Rough
Beauty” is winner of the Santa Fe Center for
Photography 2005 project competition and
has been proﬁled on National Public Radio.
He has been recognized as “one of the shoot-
ing stars of the American photo scene” by
Germany’s fotoMAGAZIN and named on
the “PDN 30,” a list of 30 emerging pho-
tographers as the “ones to watch,” by Photo
District News.

Anderson’s work has been featured in
Esquire, Stern, ESPN, Photo District News,
British Journal of Photography, B&W and
the New York Sun. In addition, his work is
in the collections of various museums such
as the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Art
Museum of Southeast Texas,Worcester Art
Museum in Massachusetts, George Eastman
House and Ogden Museum of Southern Art
in New Orleans.

  

Treasure hunter at W&L *

O:

 

 
   

0 WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY STORE

“ﬁt ANNUAL THANK YOU ’@*  
HOLIDAY SALE

In time for that special holiday gift!
9 DAYS

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday-Friday Saturday
Dec. 5”‘ Dec. 6”‘ Dec. 7”‘ Dec. 8”‘ — 12”‘ Dec. 13th
8 a.m. — 7 p.m. 10 a.m. - 5 pm. 10 a.m. — 5 p.m. 8 a.m. — 7 p.m. . 10 a.m. — 5 p.m.

     
       
 

 
   
  

      

     
  

  
 

All Dolo 0 “"9”
Wm. 104 OFF “:§::i;:.‘::”  

   

ENTIRE 5 TORE  0"

V (except textbooks, sundries, some technology, and selected items)

50% - 75% OFF

SPECIALLY SELECTED ITEMS
Free gift Wrapping.’
Sale applies only to purchases in the Store

    
   
       
   

  

   WAHINGTON AND LEE  
   UNIVERSITY S TORE Q)

UNDERGRADUATE & LAW STUDENTS
DO YOU WANT

CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS?

A Fz'm'5/yea’ exam? Before /yeczdzhg /907776,
Bring your book: io #96 UN] VFRSI TY S TORE/

CASH for your books!

(up to 50% of Value of book)
help your schoolprovide
more used, lower priced books for the next term!

   
     
    

 
   
     
     
  

Buyback will be going on for 15 days in the Common’s atrium!

   
 
 
 

 
  

Starting Thursday,_ December 4"“, ending Friday, December 19”‘
(buying will occur also on Saturdays and on Sunday, December 7)
9:00 a.m. — 6:00 p.m. during Week
10:00 a.m. — 4:00 p.m. on Saturdays
10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. on Sunday, Dec. 7

 
   
   

 

» I
.32:
Q x;‘1.b.'x .

»

mmrjnu 2pm TIIIIRSIIAY me 18?

re Igms lmlging, “mice Bays at i kets,
v at Arrival Eiclets ~ $I35uer person  m  

  *Basedon six guests in a three-bedroom condo.
Ratedoes not include reservationprocessing fee artax

 

 

    

THE R|N'G-TUM PHI 7

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2008

 

sports  

W&L Volleyball

ends season

Lady Generals swept by Mount Saint
Joseph in ﬁrst round of regionals

By Stephanle Hardlman
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee volleyball team ended its season on
Thursday afternoon after being swept by Mount Saint Joseph in
NCAA Division III Great Lakes Regionals.

The tournament was hosted by Wittenberg College in Springﬁeld,
Ohio. W&L lost in three straight sets (25-22, 25-18, 25-23).

The Generals came into the match 31-6, fresh off of their ODAC
Championship win last weekend, their eighth consecutive title, that
left them 10-0 in the conference.

W&L beat Mount 3-1 (26-24, 20-25, 25-16, 25-16) in their Nov. 1
match-up at Centre College in Danville, Ky.

The Lions Head Coach Michele Benoit posted her 400th career
win with the victory over W&L Thursday. Mount went on to lose
against defending national champions Washington University-St.
Louis who was ranked third. Washington then ended its run for a
second consecutive title with a loss to Ohio Northern, ranked eighth,
on Saturday.

Junior outside hitter Rachael Phillips managed 11 kills and nine
digs but added six attacking errors. Phillips was named the ODAC
Volleyball Player of the Year last Monday.

Phillips is just one of three Generals added to the All-Conference
Team. She and senior right-side hitter Jessica Ulrich made the team
for the second consecutive year. Junior setter Megan Steinhardt was
named as an honorable mention selection.

Ulrich won the title of tournament MVP at the ODAC Champion-
ship Nov. 8. She added seven kills, eight digs and two service aces to
the team’s match Thursday.

Steinhardt put up 28 assists and 18 digs, a game high.

For the ﬁrst time in four years, senior outside hitter Laura Maurer
did not make the All—ODAC Team. Maurer was out of commission
most of the season for illness and injury. Against Mount, Maurer
chipped in 10 kills and nine digs but also four attacking errors.

The Generals team prides itself on playing a difficult non-confer-
ence schedule. Throughout the season, they traveled to play Juniata,
Christopher Newport, and Emory, all nationally ranked powerhous-
es.

In 2006, the team advanced to the “Sweet Sixteen” of the NCAA‘

Tournament after beating New York University.

The Generals end their season 31-7 overall. The team posted a 13-
0 home record and for the season more than tripled their opponents’
kills and service aces.

Head coach Bryan Snyder (’95) completed his ninth season with
the Generals. His W&L career record stands at 266-61 (.813) overall
and 89-3 (.967) in the ODAC.

With only four seniors (Ulrich, Maurer, Alex Scaggs and Kassie
Bagley) leaving this year, the team will be left with many experi-
enced players.

Looking to next year, the Generals will surely be led again by
Phillips and Steinhardt.

Junior Kristi Stevens and sophomore Jenna Finger can be expect-
ed to help out in the setter ’s position. Sophomore middle hitter Lou-

ise Brooks will develop as the key player on the net with ﬁrst-year .

Lindsey Dee being worked in as well.

Sophomore Marah Schmitz saw a lot of playing time early this
year in the outside hitter and libero positions. A talented player with
good court awareness, Schmitz will be an asset next season as well to
play opposite Phillips.

In the back row, junior Kelly Harrison may continue wearing
the libero jersey or possibly ﬁll Ulrich’s empty position on the right
side.

Sophomores Summer Goldberg and Meredith Townsend will add
leadership experience along with ﬁrst-years Megan Daily and Megan
Tomlinson.

am, it Peatacmat

PEDAL (Luz DINER & TIN Toy Cm‘.

Order from our complete menu
Or Jsizz asfor om: afmrr ALL YOU CAN EA T Buffets.’

Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5pm~10pm
Saturday Night Prime Rib Dinner 5pm~10pm
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & ?ot Roast Mam-9pm
Friday & Saturday Late Night Breakfast Bar 10pm-2am
Breakfast Bar '2' Days a. Week 6am~t tam
Daily Hot Country Bar Mam-10pm
Daily Soup, Salad, & Fruit Bar Ham-10pm

Order Breakfast 24 Hours 3 day, 7 days a Week!

Home: Cooked Meals & Soutltern Hospitality.’
Located at

151 llﬂllﬂl NM

14%! at I-64, Exit R35, 2:3l6North Lee l-lwyt, lmington, VA

540~463~3478

Exreut food 8: a great reflection of
Antique Pedal Cars 6: Tin Toys!

 

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

Junior forward Ben Goetsch dribbles past a Musklngum defender ln W&L’s flrst game of the season.
For more on the men's basketball W&L Classic thls weekend, see page 8.

Predicting the unpredictable

Allen picks Florida and Texas Tech for national championship

By Crlghton Allen
C 0 L U M N I ST

As the college football season enters.

its concluding and most important weeks,
I’d like to offer my thoughts on what has
already‘ transpired and what we can look
forward to in the weeks to come.

First off, no truly dominant team that
stands above all others has emerged this
season. Looking at the standings, there are
no less than seven teams — Alabama, Tex-
as Tech, Florida, USC, Oklahoma, Texas
and Penn State — that could lay claim to a
right to play in the national championship
game.

Judging by momentum right now, it
appears to me that the two teams that,will
battle for the national championship in Mi-
ami will be Florida and Texas Tech. The
way these two teams score points, coupled
with huge bursts of momentum coming
from several important victories for both
programs lately, leads me to believe that
neither of these teams will lose by January.

The Florida Gators remain an offensive
powerhouse, captivating the college foot-
ball nation with how well they have played
in the past several weeks. In their six-game
winning streak, the Gators have scored 49.5
points per game and beat teams by an aver-
age margin of 39 points.

The Gators’ offensive triggerman, ju-
nior quarterback Tim Tebow, looks com-
pletely in control of his coach Urban Mey-
er’s spread-option offense and possesses
enough weapons around him to make any
choice he makes with the football a poten-
tial touchdown. He can pass, hand off or
run it himself and teams have a devil of a
time stopping any of the three.

The Red Raiders of Texas Tech are no
slouches either. They remain undefeated
while playing in what can arguably be
called the toughest division in football, the
Big 12 South. The offense’s lowest scoring
output this season is still a huge 35 points.
How absurd! Texas Tech scores points like
the guys in “Animal House” partied —— re-
lentlessly and with no regard for those on
the other side.

Graham Harrell, the Red Raiders senior
quarterback, puts up stats every game you
couldn’t even dream up on Xbox, let alone
real life. In his last game against Oklahoma
State, a very good team in their own right,
Harrell completed 40 of 50 passes for 456
yards and six touchdowns. A

These gaudy numbers, though, are just
another day at the office for quarterbacks
playing under Mike Leach, Texas Tech
coach and architect of the offense that puts
up points and compiles yards against any-
one. However, Red Raiders quarterbacks
never get any love; they are labeled as
system quarterbacks, unworthy of any seri-
ous consideration. That is ridiculous and I
want it to change.

On that note, gentle readers, the Ring-
tum Phi (or at least me) now endorses Gra-
ham Harrell for the Heisman Trophy, the
award given out annually to the nation’s
best football player. Tebow won the honor
last year and arguably has a chance to re-
peat, but no one i11 America plays as well
right now as Harrell. ,No one. If you re-
main dissuaded, next weekend, watch Har-
rell against the Oklahoma‘Sooners. You
will join the ranks of those who believe,
included in those are the defensive coordi-
nators of every team Texas Tech has played
this season, that there is no throw Graham

Harrell cannot make.

As good as Florida and Texas Tech are,
they don’t play much defense. Texas Tech
especially, coming out of the Big 12 where
defense seems to be optional. Therefore, in
the national championship game, look for
the Florida Gators to defeat the Texas Tech
Red Raiders 38-28. The Gators play in the
SEC, the home of the world’s best athletes
that don’t practice their craft on Sundays.
Speed kills and Texas Tech will ﬁnd that
out the hard way.

Other items of note, how bad has Au-
burn been this year? Picked by many to
win the SEC West, the Tigers have looked
anemic for most of the season, struggling
to ﬁt into the new spread offense of the
much-ballyhooed coordinator Tony Frank-
lin. Auburn now stands 5-6 and Franklin
stands jobless, ﬁred midway through the
season. If the Tigers don’t have a winning
record at the end of the season, head coach
Tommy Tuberville may be shown the door
as well.

On a surprising note, the resurgence
of the Penn State Nittany Lions has taken
many aback. Running their new offense,
the Spread HD, the Lions look like they
may send their beloved coach Joe Patemo
out on a high note as he enters into the twi-
light years of his storied coaching career.

As every college season always does,
this season has produced heartbreaking
losses and triumphant victories in equal
portion. Every game is played amongst the
unique pageantry of college football that no
other sport can create. The athletes play for
their schools, not dollar signs like they do
in the pros. As the season comes to its ﬁnal
stretch, stay tuned for further excitement
from this, the best sport in the world.

 

   

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2008

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

 

Mon Tues WED Tiiuns FRI SAT SUN
Men's
xc
NCAA
women»; Nationals
X6 — (Ind. Only)
' 11 a.m.
iiloileyball
t
at W3 h
Men's 35 -
Basketball cathonc (Md_)
7 p.m.
2 p.m.
Mat a‘
Women’: 3'5’
Basketball wash Dlcklnson
Tournament
7 p.m.
at
MQn’§ Franklln &
s""“‘“"“g Marshall
11 a.m.
at
women.‘ Franklin &
Swlmmlns Marshall
11 a.m.
Wrestling

numbers
I 28  

Troy's blown third-quarter lead against LSU Saturday in the Tigers’

largest ever comeback win. LSU, then ranked 19th, scored 30 points

in the fourth quarter to win 40-31.

111

The number of points scored by VMl’s basketball team in the Keydets’
111-103 upset victory Friday over perennial powerhouse Kentucky. It
was the most number of points the Wildcats have surrendered since

1989.

13-13

The ﬁnal score of the Cincinnati Bengals-Philadelphia Eagles game
Sunday. it was the ﬁrst tie in an NFL game since the Atlanta Falcons
and Pittsburgh Steelers tied 34-34 on Nov. 10, 2002. The Bengals

are now 1-8-1 on the year while the Eagles are 5-4-1.

  box

“It sounds like they’re overbidding. If the specula-
tion is true that we’ve offered CC $100 million,

 

why would you offer $140 million. Why wouldn’t
you offer $110 million?”

Milwaukee Brewers general manager Doug Melvin after the New
York Yankees reportedly offered pitcher cc Sabathia approximately
$140 million over six years in response to the Brewers’ offer of $100
million over ﬂve years. The Yankees boast the MLB’s highest payroll
of over $207 million compared to the Brewers’ payroll of just under
$75 million. Courtesy of espn.com.

“Yes, absolutely.  I certainly do feel we're going
to be a team that plays well enough to be thinking
about the playoffs.” ’

Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones Thursday when asked If he thinks
that his team would make the playoffs. The Cowboys, considered
by many to be a Super Bowl favorite at the start of the year, were
5-4 and tied for last place In the NFC East before Sunday. Courtesy
of espn.com. ~ g

"This was a tough decision to make. Barry is a 2
good man and we have a great deal of respect

for him. We wish him nothing but success; how- I
ever, the results were unacceptable and the play-
ers have to understand that we need to be bet-

ter. Hopefully this change helps push them.”

Tampa Bay Lightning executive vice president and general manager
Brian Lawton after ring head coach Barry Meirose Just 16 games
(5-7-4) into his ﬂrst season coaching since 1995. Melrose, who was
an ESPN analyst for 13 years before being hired by the Lightning in
June, was replaced by Interim head coach Rick Tocchet. courtesy
of the Tampa Bay Busines Journal.

W&L splits weekend series

  Men is‘ basketball beats Muskingum, falls to F erram

Junior forward Zac
White drives to the
hoop for two of his
14 points in the
Washington and
Lee men’s basket-
ball team’s first
game of the sea-
son. The Generals
beat Muskingum
66-57 Saturday in
its first game of
the W&L Classic.
Senior. forward
Ryan Owens led
the home team
with a career-high
15 points and
eight rebounds.

In its second game
of the W&L Clas-
sic, the Generals
iost to Ferrum
44-59 Sunday.
Senior guard Chris
McHugh scored
10 while senior
forward Ben Heller
and White chipped
in nine.

Looking ahead

to the rest of the
season, senior
guard and captain
Isaiah Goodman
said, “Our team’s
goals for this year
for this year are
simple: defend,
rebound, take
care of the ball.
We know that if
we do that every
game, we will have
a chance to win
every game. When
you win a lot of
games, then you
start talking cham-
pionships.”

RYAN ELSEY / Staff Photographer

XC tea ms race at NCAAs “

Men 3* and women is teams ﬁnish in top I 0, Shaw and Webb advance

By Brooke Sutherland
8 TA F F W R lT E R

It was a cold and windy day, but the
Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
cross country teams still ﬁnished strong in
the South/Southeast Regional Champion-
ships at Texas Lutheran University in San
Antonio this weekend.

Coming off a victory in the ODAC
championship the week before, the wom-
en’s team ﬁnished third, just one spot short
of a guaranteed trip to nationals. The team
found out Sunday that it had not been se-
lected as an at-large bid for nationals.

“It’s deﬁnitely a little bittersweet to
ﬁnish third knowing that we might get
news...that we might not make it,” said
head coach Kris Hoey Saturday before the
national selection committee’s decision.
“The waiting is very difﬁcult because the
top two teams get instant gratiﬁcation. I
deﬁnitely think we deserve to go to [na-
tionals], but of course I’m a little bit bi-
ased.”

Nonetheless, W&L will have two run-
ners at nationals in Hanover, Indiana, next
weekend with seniors Jessica Shaw and
Elizabeth Webb qualifying as individu-
als. Shaw ﬁnished 11th overall out of 169
runners with a time of 22:57, and Webb
was close behind with a 14th place ﬁnish
at 23:14.

“These girls work so hard. Jess and
Webb have come so far. I’m so proud of
these girls,” Hoey said. “This was Jess’
ﬁrst year running [cross country]. What a
neat thing for her to go to nationals. Eliz-
abeth just missed going to nationals last
year, so this has been a long time coming
and she deﬁnitely deserves this honor.”

Walking the streets of San Antonio
with her parents after the race, Shaw was
nothing short of exuberant on the phone.

“This is so exciting,” she said. “Run-
ning has always been something I wanted
to pursue, but I’d always been too busy
with swimming. “

Added Webb: “Being the last one not
to go last year was pretty tough. It ended

up that I got the same place I got last year,
but the way things worked out with the
team qualifying, I got to qualify this year.
It’s nice to ﬁnally be in the mix. “

Texas Lutheran’s tough, hilly course
posed some challenges for both runners,
but they managed to battle through.

“I went out way too fast,” said Webb.
“My body started hurting halfway through.
I realized we might not make it as a team,
and my boach started yelling at me that to
guarantee a trip to nationals, I would have
to qualify myself. That really helped me to
ﬁnish the race strong.” ‘

“A lot of things were going through
my mind,” Shaw said. “The last half I
struggled a lot mentally, but I prayed for
the strength to ﬁnish. In the home stretch,
I got passed by this girl we were trying to
beat. It was frustrating, but each race is a
new experience, and I think as a team, we
learned a lot today.”

The Generals’ other runners also pulled
out strong ﬁnishes with senior Becca Tay-
lor and junior Kat Telfeyan coming in at
16th and 27th place respectively. Sopho-
more Christine Balistreri came in 38th
with a time of 24:27 and junior Dorothy
Todd ﬁnished 54th with a time of 24:56.

“I’m so proud of our girls,” Hoey said.
“I’m so proud of the people they are and
their accomplishments. This season is re-
ally a reﬂection of all the hard work they
put in. “

The team’s regional success comes on
the heels of a season ﬁlled with ODAC ac-
colades and awards. Shaw received Run-
ner of the Year and Senior Becca Taylor
was named Scholar Athlete of the Year.
Hoey was named Coach of the Year as
well.

“It was great to be named Coach of
the Year,” Hoey said. “But it’s really only
because of how well the girls did. This is
the best team in Washington and Lee cross
country history. We’ve done some amaz-
ing things with really talented individu-
als.”

On the men’s side, the team ﬁnished '

eighth with no individuals qualifying for

nationals, but three runners qualiﬁed for
the all-regional team. Senior Michael
Welsh ﬁnished 17th out of 151 runners
with at time of 26:25, followed by senior
Vance Berry in 20th with a time of 26:31
and sophomore Jack Ivy in 35th place with
a time of27:02.

“It was a lower ﬁnish than we were
shooting for,” said head coach John Tuck-
er. “We wanted to be top ﬁve, but we had
some super performances. Almost every-
one had their best race.”

Washington and Lee’s top ﬁnishers
were rounded out by senior Alex Jackson
who came in 48th at 27:24 and ﬁrst-year
Matt Gossett who ﬁnished 80th with a
time of 28:09.

“We were pretty strong all around,”
said Berry. “You can always point ﬁngers
at something. There were 30 mph winds,
which played a role in everyone’s strategy,
and traveling is always tough. Air travel
really takes a toll on you, but I’m pretty
pleased with our overall performance.”

Tucker put the season into perspective.
“The last three races we’ve performed bet-
ter than last year when we won the ODAC.
The difference this year is that ODAC is
just way more competitive,” he said.

“I was disappointed we ﬁnished eight
points back from Lynchburg, “ Berry said.
“That’s the same margin we lost to them
at ODAC, and I was really looking to im-
prove on that.”

Despite his disappointment, Berry
walked away from the race with a positive
experience.

“I’ve seen improvements every year,
and this is the culmination,” he said. “This
is it for me, and it was my best time for my
four years. This is what you dream of do-
ing, making it happen when it counts.”

Both teams are now preparing for the
upcoming track season with high hopes
and determination to improve on their
success.

“I think we’re set up really well,” said
Hoey. “We’re just going to get everyone
ready to go and show up strong.”

 

