1
I ' wt .-

 

Praises for fire safety

, Good planning and lessons learned from past
tragedieskept Thursday’s fire at Pi Kappa Phi from
being fatal. I

  

OPINIONS / page 4

WAIIIGTN AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

1897

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009 VOLUME cxn,‘ NUMBER 17

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

  Averting

 

MORGAN HARRIS / Staff Photographer

Most of the damage in Thursday’s fire was done to the front porch and doorway of the house.

Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house is still standing and students
are safe after porch ﬁre, residents move to Kappa Sigma

By Joel Poelhuis
3 TA F F w R IT E R
Five days after a ﬁre destroyed
parts of the Pi Kappa Phi house, the
17 former residents are settling in
at the empty Kappa Sigma house.
“Three kids lost just about ev-
erything,” said sophomore Da-
vid Coriell, who was treated for
smoke inhalation he suffered dur-
ing the ﬁre.
“We don’t have any furniture
or anything yet,” he said Saturday.
Yet Coriell said the transi-
tion to the new house has been

“Three kids lost just
about everything...we
don ’t have any furni-
ture or anything ﬁor

the new house] yet. ”

David Coriell, sophomore
PI Phi

made as smooth as possible
thanks to support from school
administration. He said President
Ken Ruscio, Dean David Leonard
and Clay Coleman, director of stu-
dent affairs and Greek life, were
all on the scene less than half an
hour after the ﬁre broke out.

Leonard personally drove Cori-
ell back from the hospital.

The cause of the ﬁre, which
started shortlfy after 4 am. Thurs-
day morning, has not been conclu-
sively determined.

Jimmy Swink, assistant ﬁre

chief of the Lexington ﬁre depart-
ment, said the ﬁre began under
the porch in the mulch. It took the
ﬁreﬁghters about 20 minutes to
control the blaze.

The department will release
their report to the school early this
week

Swink said the department
receives numerous calls ev-
ery spring about ﬁres that start
in ﬂammable fresh mulch.

Coriell said the school has pro-

See “Fire" on page 3

  dis aster

Safety ﬁxes ﬁromi ‘fraternity
renaissance ” may have
saved Pi Phi ﬁom blaze

By Jacob Geiger
5 TA F F W R I I E E
On April ll, 1984, Ed Bishop and several other
alumni from Washington and Lee’s Phi Gamma Delta

, fraternity peered into the smoking ruins of their fra-

ternity house.

A ﬁre had started early that morning. Thomas Fell-
in, a sophomore who had recently become the frater-
nity’s president, was dead, overcome by smoke just
feet from the door. Almost all of the other students
had been gone that night, home on spring break. Fellin
had arrived back in town just hours after the ﬁre, re-
turning from a trip with his baseball teammates.

The university was in a time of transition. Applica-
tions had been dropping sharply over the last several
years, and just three months later, the Board of Trust-
ees would vote 17 to 7 to begin admitting women to
the undergraduate portion of campus. I

“We just took it upon ourselves to rebuild,”
said Bishop. “There were a lot of ideas about
bulldozing it, but we wanted to rebuild. It cost
$800,000 dollars, which is a lot of money.”
Insurance would cover about $300,000, but the alum»
ni and undergraduate brothers would have to raise the
rest.

The rebuilding would take years, but the result was
a house that preserved the historic exterior architec-
ture but had a modern feel inside.

In the aftermath of the ﬁre, the alumni decided to
have the interior built almost entirely out of steel and
concrete, reasoning that this would limit the damage ‘
of any future ﬁre. They also had a sprinkler system
and extensive fire alarms installed.

Like most W&L fraternity houses in the 1980s,
the FIJI house was not in great shape before the ﬁre.
Each house was owned by the individual chapters,
and maintenance efforts were often put off longer than
they should be. Bishop and other FIJI alumni decided
that they would need to make some changes before

1 they could seek donations.

They set up a Housing Corporation, a group of
alumni who would oversee the fraternity ’s operations,
especially ﬁnancially. They set about hiring a house
mother, something FIJI and other W&L fraternities
had done away with a decade before because of ﬁnan-

' cial difficulties. And they decided to put some rules

see “Fire safety” on page 2

Fraternity sentenced to year off

Phi Kappa Psi is supended for a year after violating hazing policy on tear night

By Valaree Tang
STAFF WRITER

Phi Kappa Psi fraternity has
been found guilty of violating
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty’s hazing policy and has been
suspended for one year.

Acording to a release from
Brandon Dotson, Associate Dean
of Students, an incident report
was submitted by an anonymous
source to the ofﬁce of Greek life
on tear night. The ofﬁce then an
investigation of the fratemity’s
operations.

The ﬁndings of the Interfra-
temity Council (IFC), as well
as Phi Psi’s violation and the
University’s policy on hazing
were reviewed by the Univer-
sity Board of Appeals (UBA), a
panel consisting of students and
faculty.

The fratemnity was put on
a one-year period of “critical
social probation” by the IFC in
March of last year after an inci-
dent involving a visiting Johnson

scholar who was hopsitalized af-
ter attending a Phi Psi off-cam-
pus party.

This ruling stipulated that
if the fraternity were to violate
university or IFC standards, it
would be considered for suspen-
sion or dismissal from the Uni-
versity.

In January the IFC issued an-
other statement saying that Phi
Psi had breached the Univer-
sity’s hazing policy. The UBA
then reviewed an appeal based
on the IFC’s earlier decision to
place Phi Psi under social proba-
tion.

In a unanimous vote (4-0),
the UBA overturned the IFC’s
original ﬁnding that Phi Psi in-
fringed an alcohol policy ac-
cording to the University’s Ini-
tiatives on Alcohol and Other
Drugs. Instead, the UBA found
that the fraternity breached the
University’s hazing policy.

In another unanimous vote
(4-0), the UBA deemed the IF C’s

sanction inappropriate given the
circumstances of the violation of
the hazing policy.

According to Dotson, who is
chair of the UBA, the IFC and
Phi Psi agreed that the fraternity
violated the alcohol and hazing

He did not vote in the UBA’s
hearing. Dotson said the UBA’s
decision was ﬁnal.

In a majority vote (3-1), the
UBA imposed three separate
sanctions on Phi Psi. The frater-
nity will be suspended for one

“When an organization is found responsible

for hazing, they will be held responsible and in

this case it resulted in suspension. ’

1

Brandon Dotson, Associate Dean of Students

policy, but they disagreed with
the suspension.

Dotson said in an interview,
“Consistent to University policy,
when an organization is found
responsible for hazing, they will
be held responsible and in this
case it resulted in suspension.”

year from W&L, with the earli-
est readmission as a recognized
Greek organization on January
9, 2010.

The fraternity also must work
with its national headquarters to
revise its new member education
program and risk management

practices.

In addition, the newly revised
new member education program
must be submitted to the ofﬁce
of Greek life and the IFC by the
end of the fall 2009 semester
for approval by the University’s
director of Greek life and the
IF C.

Robert Claiborne, president
of Phi Psi and Carson Bruno, co-
chair of the Greek Vision Coun-

.cil and a member of Phi Psi, both

declined to comment on the is-
sue.

“We don’t want to talk about
it yet,” said a member of Phi
Psi. ‘

While hazing is a criminal
offense in Virginia, Phi Psi will
not be held legally rezpoirsible.
The fraternity will be held under
disciplinary action by the Uni-
versity.

When asked how the suspen-
sion of Phi Psi will inﬂuence
campus and fraternity dynamics,
Teri Cugliari, assistant director

of student activities and Greek
Life, said, “I think that it reiter-
ates that people are being held
accountable by peers, and that
student governance is alive and
well and people are held respon-
sible for their actions.”

Phi Psi will remain in their
chapter house until the end of
the 2008-2009 academic year.

Although the ﬁrst—year mem-
bers have already been initiated,
they will be unable to live in
the fraternity house in the fall
semester of next year. No com-
ments were made by members
of Phi Psi regarding the details
of where the new members will
live.

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

   

2 ° THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009

MAR 1 7 mg

 

pring forward

New spring term holds exciting opportunities

By Victoria Taylor
STA F F W R l T E R

The reduction of the traditionally six-week
spring term to four doesn’t just mean less time to
tube down the Maury.

The 2009-2010 academic year will debut the
new four-week spring term. During this short se-
mester, students will be “fully engaged” in one
course. According to English professor Marc
Conner, who is the director of the Quality En-
hancement Plan (QEP) leadership team which is
guiding the transition, students will only be able
to take one other credit-bearing activity, such as a
physical education or music class. Overloads will
not be permitted and the Pass/Fail option will no
longer be available for spring term.

This change means that, starting with all

“As of any change, especially
here, it 71 take a while, but even-
tually [the reception] will be

positive. ”

Sam Gilleran, sophomore
 

classes on campus in the fall of 2009, 113 credits
will be necessary to graduate as opposed to previ-
ous requirement of 115 credits.

On Monday and Tuesday, Conner held an in-
formation session for students on the logistics of
the new Spring Term in Commons. He said that
the faculty has been working for nearly a year
to develop 140 new courses, each of which will
require an average commitment of 30 to 35 hours
per week. Class meetings will account for eight
to 10 of those hours and many classes will in-
clude some kind of travel component.

There are currently 100 courses in varying
stages of development. New courses include Pro-
fessor Gregory Dresden’s Mathematics of Cryp-
tography and theater Professor Owen Collin’s
Design & Performance: Properties, Puppets and
Masks.

The reduction of spring term by two weeks
will also bring changes to the academic calendar.
Commencement will be one week earlier, putting
it at May 27, 2010. Holiday break will now be a

full three weeks, with the winter 2010 semester
beginning on Jan. 11.

But the changes don’t end there. Registration
for spring tenn will also experience drastic chang-
es. Course descriptions of spring term courses
will be available online in the fall and students
will preregister for their top three choices late in
the ﬁrst semester. Registration will take place in
late January and students will be assigned their
classes before Washington Break. Once spring
term has begun, there will be a two-day drop/add
period.

The new spring term will still provide students
with some of the unique study abroad opportuni-
ties that have characterized the short semester. A
few programs, like Washington term and Con-
ner’s program in Ireland, will remain six-weeks
in length.

The QEP is the main component of the reaffir-
mation of accreditation by the Southern Associa-
tion of Colleges and Schools (SACS), a process
that colleges and universities go through every
ten years. The “revitalization” of spring term is
the subject of Washington and Lee’s QEP.

Conner said he became involved with the QEP
program because he feels developing the program
in Ireland and the term in general have provided
him with the most valuable teaching experience
of his career.

“I really believe in the spring term,” said Con-
ner. “I don’t want to see it lost or diminished for
the students or the faculty.” ‘

He reassures that the administration is “not
trying to kill spring term,” citing the huge under-
taking by the faculty and staff of creating the new
courses as well as the administration’s commit-
ment of $500 thousand to the project.

Sophomore Sam Gilleran said he thinks the
new spring term is an improvement and has the
opportunity to be effective.

“As of any change, especially here, it’ll take a
while,” Gilleran said, “but eventually [the recep-
tion] will be positive.”

Corrections

In last week’s story, “Election, 2009” on
page J.-
The EC presidential run—oﬂ° was between second-year law student Eric Hoffman and

junior John Twomey. The SJC secretary-elect Caitlin Cottingham is also a second-year
law student, not an undergraduate junior.

NEEDED:
Writers, layout designers
and copy editors for the Phi

contact Alison Chopin at
phi@wlu.edu

Fire safety

continued from page 3

in place that were aimed at controlling what
Bishop called the “Animal House atmosphere”
so prevalent at W&L fraternities in those days.

“The school took notice and school said, ‘geez
if it works there maybe it’ll work elsewhere,”
Bishop said.

So a group of alumni from each fraternity on
campus began meeting. In 1988, the Trustees
unanimously approved what became known as
the Fraternity Renaissance. The program would

“It was a unique undertaking.
Most schools were trying to get
rid of frats, so it was a big de-

1

parture from the norm. ’

Ed Bishop, Phi Gamma Delta alumnus

renovate 17 houses, and the Cadaver Society
made an immediate splash by donating $100,000
in support of the plan.

Construction began on the Red Square houses
in June 1990 and continued to Davidson Park in
subsequent years.

“It was a unique undertaking,” Bishop said.
“Most schools were trying to get rid of frats, so it
was a big departure from the norm.”

One of the people leading the effort was
Frank Parsons, an alumnus and long-time uni-
versity employee who worked in President John
Wilson’s office. Parsons was the university presi-
dent’s point man on all building matters, meeting
with architects and engineers.

“We in the president’s oﬁice, the alumni and
the board of trustees knew we had to do some-
thing about the houses that were growing deeper
and deeper into decay,” Parsons said. “There was

enough food on the walls of Beta [Theta Pi} to
feed a small nation from all the food ﬁghts. They
were eating on homemade picnic tables there.”

Discussions about what to do began even be-
fore the FIJI house bumed. When the fraternity
was restored in such successﬁxl fashion, Parsons
said the school realized they had a model they
could follow.

As the school purchased and renovated the
fraternity houses, each building was brought up
to match the new ﬁre code. Bishop and Parsons
said most of the houses had been grandfathered in
previously and had not met ﬁre code regulations.
Now all of the houses got code updates, including
sprinkler systems and new smoke detectors that
would trigger loud alarms.

The school’s meeting with alumni led to a set
of standards for the fraternity, including regu-
lations on the physical condition of the house.
But the school quickly realized most fraternities
would never have enough money to repair their
houses and meet the standards.

“All of this came at a time when fraternity
interest at W&L was at its lowest ebb ever,” Par-
sons said. .

The plans had to wind their way though Lex-
ington’s bureaucracy, winning approval from the
planning commission and City Council. The city
manager at the time wanted approval for the reno-
vations to be tied to the imposition of an automo-
bile tax on students who had cars in Lexington.

“President Wilson told the planning commis-
sion that they must not care if W&L ﬁxed up the
derelict houses in town,” Parsons said. “The next

thing we knew the tax was out of the way and

other things fell into place.”

Parsons, who still lives in Lexington, retired
from W&L about a decade ago. It’s been years
since he had anything to do with the fraternity
houses, but he was still relieved to hear that the
measures put in place 20~years-ago worked last
week. ’

“We were very concerned in the Pi Phi house
about ﬁre safety,” he said. “One of the best things
I’ve ever heard was the news that the ﬁre alarm
and sprinklers worked as they were supposed
to.”

There will be a free

NOLS

(National Outdoor Leadership School)

presentation held at Washington & Lee University
in the

Outing Club Meeting Room
(114 Elrod Commons)

on March 25 @ 7pm.

This will include a
slideshow and talk.

Also, from 1 1:00 - 1 pm
there will be an information
booth in the Commons.

This is a great opportunity if you do not
have an internship for the upcoming summer
or if you are just interested in the outdoors.

Please feel free to stop by.

 

ﬁx

 

O

 

 

C)

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009

 

COURTESY OF SHANE RAMEE

TOP LEFl': The fire is believed to have started on or near the front porch around 4 a.m.
Thursday morning. The damage is worst along the front of the house, near the door and

porch.

TOP RIGHT: Firefighters knocked a hole in the roof of the house, allowing smoke and
flames to escape by creating a natural chimney. This room on the third floor housed two
students, though at least one of the students was not in the room when the fire broke out.
BOTTOM LEFT: The upstairs of the house also suffered damage.

BOTTOM RIGHT: Though the damage is severe, President Ken Ruscio said there does not
appear to be any major structural damage and that the school hoped the house would
reopen in the fall for the start of the next school year.

RIGHT: Most of the house's 15 residents were able to salvage their clothing, which the
school paid to have dry cleaned. Insulation fell out of the ceiling and was scattered

throughout the upper floors.

Fire

continued from page 1

. vided toiletries and bedding for the beds in Kappa
Sigma and is dry cleaning clothes damaged in the
ﬁre. I

The Kappa Sigma house has been empty since
the fraternity was removed from campus in 2007.
In recent years the house has been used as head-
quarters for Campus Kitchens, an organization that
provides free meals to local residents.

Jennifer Sproul, coordinator of Campus Kitch-
ens, says ‘she expects to continue to use the kitchen,
but that no arrangements had been ﬁnalized.

“We’re waiting to see exactly what’ll happen,”
she said.

Campus Kitchens’ oﬂices are being removed to
accommodate Pi Phi’s house director, who must
also move out due to ﬁre damage and reconstruc-
tion efforts.

The Pi Phi brothers are now eating their meals in
the campus dining hall, but Coriell said they hope

to have their regular cook back soon for meals at
Kappa Sigma.

A wooden sign reading “Pi Phi West” sits on
the table in the kitchen at Kappa Sigma. Coriell said
the brothers have been trying to strike a balance
between making the house feel like their home and
not intruding on Kappa Sig’s heritage.

According to Coriell, the senior former members
of Kappa Sigma have been supportive, even offer-
ing suggestions about room assignments.

Coriell said he is optimistic about Pi Phi’s house
being ready for the new sophomore class in the fall.

_-.’;-

THE RING-TUM PHI

IIGWS

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 16,2009

THE RING-TUM PHI

    

-4

opinioﬂ

 

Fire safety saves lives

How a 25-year-old tragedy saved students at Pi Kappa Phi

By Jacob Geiger
C0 LU M N I ST

As students and administra-
tors pick up the pieces from
Thursday moming’s ﬁre at Pi
Kappa Phi fraternity, one truth is
emerging: a combination of good
planning and good luck helped
everyone make it out alive.

The fratemity’s sprinkler
systems and alarms worked like
clockwork.

The reason the defense mech-
anisms in Pi Phi’s house — like all
other Greek houses on campus —
were able to protect the residents
is rooted in another fraternity ﬁre
at Washington and Lee.

In April 1984, the Phi Gamma
Delta (FIJI) house was mostly
empty. It was spring break, and
only a few baseball players were
home. One was Thomas Fellin,
a Pennsylvania sophomore who
had just taken over as the frater-
nity’s president.

When the house caught ﬁre in
what investigators later said was
arson, Fellin was killed, over-

come by smoke just a few feet
from the exit.

The house was almost totally
destroyed; only the exterior walls
- made of virtually indestructible
stone — survived.

The house was then owned by
the fraternity chapter. FIJI, like
other houses at Washington and
Lee in the 19805, no longer had a
house mother, having abandoned
the system in the mid-1970s.

When the members and alum-
ni of the fraternity decided to re-
build, a group of alums cut a deal
with the school. If the alumni
group could raise the roughly
$500,000 in repair costs that
weren’t covered by insurance,
the school would buy the prop-
erty and then lease it back to the
chapter.

Among the more practical
amenities were improved ﬁre
exits and an extensive sprinkler
system.

The chapter also agreed to
hire a house mother and abide
by some new rules governing be-
havior in the houses.

The beautifully redone house
opened a few years later, and the
school liked the setup so much
that it launched a fraternity re-
naissance, buying up and reno-
vating virtually every fraternity
house on campus. As each house
was redone, ﬁre exits were im-
proved and sprinkler systems
were installed.

The program wrapped up
more than 10 years ago, and stu-
dents have been enjoying the top-
of-the-line houses ever since.

About 99.99 percent of the
time, we focus on the beautiful
building, nice dining rooms and
spacious bedrooms.

This week was the other 0.01
percent, the time when we re-
member that the school’s deci-
sion to remodel the frat houses a
decade ago gave us top-notch ﬁre
protection.

When the school embarked on
its fraternity renaissance, most
universities were trying to dis-
tance themselves from fraternity
life. Many schools considered
frats deadweight, groups that

could only lead to bad publicity
while contributing little to their
campuses. Thankfully, the alum-
ni and administration of W&L
knew better.

W&L is blessed with some
of the nicest fraternity houses
around. There’s no doubt that a
few individual chapters at vari-
ous schools around the country
might have nicer houses, but
I challenge you to ﬁnd a single
campus that has a whole system
of houses as nice as ours.

Colleges around the country
have learned from bitter experi-
ence that fraternity ﬁres are all
too common. We learned the
same deadly lesson at W&L in
1984.

Thursday morning’s ﬁre could
have been a worst-case scenario.
It came hours after a major party,
meaning students were likely
tired and groggy.

Thank goodness our school
learned the right lessons after
Thomas Fellin’s death. Those
lessons helped save lives Thurs-
day morning.

The celebrity round-up

Grace Andrews talks Chris Brown, Joaquin Phoenix, and more...

By Grace Andrews
c o LU M N I ST

Today’s article is going to be
about pop culture, or better yet,
what is currently happening in
popular culture.

Let’s start with our resident
pop-tart, Britney Spears. Ms.
Spears‘s much talked about tour
has begun and she’s managed to
lip-sync without teetering across
the stage or forget to move her
lips all together. I think this
means that her comeback is of-
ﬁcially a success. Good for her!

I’m not going to lie; I’ve
been worried about the so-called
Princess of Pop and am happy
to see that her life is getting on
the right track. I still don’t think
she has any real vocal talent, but
she sure can make a catchy tune
(starts humming the beat for
Womanizer).

I guess that’s why it’s been
reported that she’s been lip-syn-
ching all of her songs during the
“Circus” tour. I must say, I’m
not opposed to that, her voice
isn’t great and it’s especially
rough when she’s out of breath
from running around on a stage.
I just want Britney to add a few
more dance moves to her reper-
toire. If she does one more body
roll with a front head dip and leg
pop, 1 may have to pop her in the
front of her head with my leg.

Speaking of pop, the King
of Pop Michael Jackson and
his protégée, Chris Brown have
been in the news (read: frivo-
lous magazines as well as other
media outlets) for very different
reasons.

Apparently, Mr. Jackson will
be having a series of farewell
concerts in the UK, or some-
thing like that. I didn’t really pay
attention to the article, because I
didn’t really care.

I actually think that’s how
most people will feel. I love old
school Michael and I’m the ﬁrst
one pulling my pants up to ex-
pose crisp new thick white cot-
ton socks with freshly polished
black dress shoes while moon
walking and spinning in public
places. However, Michael has
not lived up to his level of ﬂyness
in a long time. It seems like ever
since Free Willy’s soundtrack,
he just hasn’t been able to make

a truly remarkable single.

Maybe this will be differ-
ent and his 200'“ comeback will
have some staying power. With
the riffraff noise playing on the
radios nowadays that tries to
pass itself off as music, I’d love
to sit down and hear a real artist
sing. Best of luck to MJ!

Now let’s talk about the little
one that wanted to follow in
MJ’s footsteps, the young and
talented Chris Brown. It seems
that he’ll be following his idol
all the way to court.

I was never a big fan of Mr.
Brown’s, but I respected his

I know that such private mat-
ters are none of my business (or
you, the readers either), but I
hope to see our judicial system
bring him to justice and pro-
vide the mental help he clearly
needs.

I also pray that Rihanna ﬁnds
the strength to do what is best
for her. I happen to think that
leaving Chris Brown may be the
most favorable option, but as of
recently, the two stars are back
together and apparently “hap-
py,” that is until something sets
him off again.

As more news of the attack

I ’d be lying if I said that I didn ’t want Chris
Brown to go to prison for what he did to Ri-

hanna, but it would also be unfair of me not

to acknowledge the fact that his mother was

physically abused by his stepfather and that

he is a product of an abusive home.

drive to be an amazing singer,
dancer, and actor. I was just as
shocked as everyone else to learn
about the Rihanna situation. The
situation concerning these two
young and up-and-coming stars
is extremely saddening.

I refuse to make excuse for
either party, or pretend to un-
derstand truly, since I’ve been
fortunate enough never to have
been on either end of a domes-
tic violence dispute. I think that
such a sobering situation shows
the public that stars are humans
too, ﬂawed and prone to mess-
ing up, just like the rest of the
world. ,

It makes us realize that vio-
lence against women is a shock-
ingly commonplace problem
that deserves to be discussed in
public forums, so that people
can receive help.

I’d be lying ifl said that I
didn’t want Chris Brown to go
to prison for what he did to Ri-
hanna, but it would also be un-
fair of me not to acknowledge
the fact that his mother was
physically abused by his stepfa-
ther and that he is a product of
an abusive home.

becomes public, Chris continues
to lose credibility as a person
which has been affecting his
credibility as an artist.

He recently pulled out of
Nickelodeon’s Kid Choice
awards due to controversy sur-
rounding his nomination. Ironi-
cally, some people wanted Ri-
hanna to withdraw her name
as well. I know why Chris was
asked to withdraw, but I’m still
confused about Rihanna.

The whole debacle just
worries me; apparently it wor-
ries Oprah, Jessica Simpson,
and a slew of other celebri-
ties. Oprah’s having a show for
abused women and dedicating it
to Rihanna. Jessica S. most re-
cently announced to an audience
oat one of her concerts that she’d
been in an abusive relationship
and that women should leave
any situation where a man hurts
you physically or emotionally.
It sounds like EVERYONE has
something to say to Rihanna.

But I’ve actually got a few
choice words for Mr. Brown. It
seems that despite all this talk-
ing people aren’t actually step-
ping in to help either of these

two stars. Maybe it really isn’t
our business and we should let
them make their own “adult” de-
cisions about their relationship.
I will again reserve my criti-
cisms and judgments, but I’m
sure that those of you who know
me can only imagine what I’m
thinking.

On a happier note, Joaquin
Phoenix has decided to become
a rapper. The actor recently re-
tired to pursue a career in mu-
sic. I’m not sure what part of his
new disheveled look, full bibli-
cal beard, incoherent speech,
and obvious mind loss have to
do with that, but when I ﬁgure it
out, I’ll be sure to let you know.

His recent life choices and
behavior even received the unso-
licited opinion of a medical doc-
tor who called Joaquin crazy.

I’m neither trained medical
professional, or close friend of
Mr. Phoenix’s but I’m inclined
to say that the man’s most re-
cent shenanigans are an indica-
tion that he may need a good ol’
fashioned talking to.

He’s acting a fool and needs
to be told about himself (that’s
southern dialect for “someone
tell him he’s being stupid and
should stop acting in such a
manner.”

I nominate my mother. She
has an afﬁnity for getting to the
point and making you feel small-
er than an ant without saying
one mean word. I’m sure she’d
whip his Hollywood behind in
shape quicker than I could read
this article out loud.

On a more relevant note, it’s
Daylight Savings and we’ve
sprung forward.

This means that you and
I both lost an hour of our ever
precious time. I’m actually
quite devastated and heartbro-
ken about this. When I think
of the sleep I’m losing and the
time I’ve already wasted I can’t
help but want to smash a clock
in with my ﬁsts. Yet, I’ll restrain
such aggressive urges and be
thankful for more hours of sun-
light, and walk away.

Maybe I should teach Chris
Brown about my positive cop-
ing mechanisms for when I get

angry...

By Jean Chapman
COLUMNIST

only scratch the surface.

Gender relations here at Washington and Lee suck.
We have a sexual abuse rate twice that of the national average,
men and women seldom interact outside of class or parties, and
we keep blaming all of our problems on the Greek system.
Somehow, it’s easier for all of us to pretend that the bubble of
fraternity and sorority life causes all of our issues than face up to
the fact that something else is going wrong at this university.
Admittedly, women are pretty new on this campus compared
to other universities. W&L only went co-ed about 20 years ago
and, frankly, women on this campus have had an uphill battle.
The good ol’ boys southern mentality that brought us the honor
system and the speaking tradition also brought a sense of chau-
vinism to campus that hasn’t really gone away yet. Don’t get me
wrong, I haven’t had any problems as a woman here on campus.
What remains from that old fashioned system, though is the sense
that men and women live in somewhat diﬂerent social worlds
from each other and have to act by different standards.
Yeah. I bet a lot of you just rolled your eyes. “Is she seriously
going to complain about double standards?” Well, I just want to
point a few things out. First, ever notice that women dress up to
parties, when men dress down? Women spend serious time and
effort on makeup, clothes, hair, the whole nine yards, and men
don’t usually waste their time with it unless they’ve been forced
to come up with a good costume.

It doesn’t really end with going out to parties, either. On any
given day walking around campus, take a look around at every-
one around you. I’m willing to bet that more of the women that
you see will be dressed up than the men. A man who goes to class
in sweats is barely noticed, but if a woman goes out dressed that
way, it tends to be remarked upon. I don’t mean to imply that one
should not try to look one’s best, but it makes me wonder if we
women on this campus feel that we have something to prove. We
dress up, we work hard, and we try to be taken seriously.

I don’t want to lecture and I don’t want people to start being
less fashionable, but I do want to point out some discrepancies.

Perhaps the reason why we have issues connecting to each
other is not because we get separated sophomore year by the
Greek system. Perhaps we still have different expectations from
men and women on this campus. These expectations might not be
academic, but they are certainly social.

I don’t mean to limit my examples to clothing and appear-
ance. Those just happen to be the most easily visible examples of
double-standards on our campus. My larger point here is that men
and women on our campus need to work a little harder to under-
stand each other. A few good ideas have been proposed recently
to improve gender relations, including mixed gender lunches and
the possibility of co-ed housing for freshmen, but those really

The gender gap *

OI; why W&L women have to dress up

To be honest, people, we need to start acting like adults in-

stead of seventh graders at a dance.

Members of the opposite sex aren’t aliens or different species

so we should stop treating them that way. We need to learn to treat

each other with respect, understanding, and real honor. Gentle-

men and ladies do not have to be separated from each other and
“honor” does not have to mean different standards or behaviors.

‘E

M WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ----—---—

RING -TUM

PHLF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGER
DISTRIBUTION MNGR.

ALLISON CHOPIN
JOHN HENDERSON
CODY BEAUCHAMP
CELESTE CRUZ-
CARANDANG

WILL DORRANCE

GRACE ANDREWS
ALEISHA BUTLER
JEAN CHAPMAN
MEGAN DAILY
NEVILLE FOGARTY
JACOB GEIGER
KATIE HATFIELD
JOEL POELHUIS
KIMBER WIGGS
VALAREE TANG
VICTORIA TAYLOR

LARA JORDAN
MORGAN HARRIS
STROCK MOORE
ROB GEORGE

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately. truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI IS PUBLISHED MONDAYS
DURING THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL YEAR.
THE RING—TUM PHI IS A MEMBER OF THE MEDIA
BOARD, BUT IS OTHERWISE INDEPENDENT.
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS ABOUT THE PHI
SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITORS AT
PHI@WLU.EDU OR TO THE MEDIA BOARD AT

MEDIABOARD@WLU.EDU.

THE MEDIA BOARD

Is AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN EDITORIAL
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WORKING WITH ALL
MEDIA OUTLETS ON THE WASHINGTON &

LEE CAMPUS. ALL INQUIRIES WILL REMAIN
CONFIDENTIAL. THE RING-TUM PHI WELCOMES
ALL LETTERs. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT To EDIT
SUBMISSIONS FOR CONTENT AND LENGTH.
LETTERS AND ADVERTISING DO NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE OPINION or THE RING—TUM PHI
STAFF. THIS NEWSPAPER OBSERVES CURRENT
COURT DEFINITIONS or LIBEL AND OBSCENITY.
THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

A

 

 

 

  

° Do you want to talk?

O»

 

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009

  

THE RING-TUM PHI

- 5

 

opinions

In relationships, gendered understandings of speech cause problems

By Alelsha Butler
c o L u M N I s T

A young woman and a young
man are cooking dinner As the
girl finishes preparing the food
she gestures toward the sink
and asks the guy, “Do you want
to do some of those dishes? ”

“No, ” he answers ﬂatly.
Instantly the girl is irritated,
and the guy grins impishly as
he says, “But I thought you al-

.ways wanted me to be honest?

Isn ’t honesty one of the building
blocks of our relationship? ”

“Yea well...”

“Well what? ” He 3 still grin-
ning.

“That was the wrong an-
swer, ” she growls.

“Just tell me to do them,
then.”

She sighs. “I don’t want to
sound like a shrew. ”

Many linguistic studies have
found that 55% of communica-
tion is body language, 38% is
tone of voice and 7% is the ac-
tual words you say.

Therefore: when you text
someone you’re only using 7%
of your communication abili-
ties, and the phone isn’t much
better, leaving you with only
45% of your communication
powers. Not being able to hear
the inﬂection associated with
someone’s words or read the
sapréssilpns on t19¢itifééi;tmark-
edly reduces the efﬁciency of
conversation. As convenient as
modern technology canbe, mis-
communication abounds when
people try to use it to discuss
important, heavy topics.

Silence can say a lot, and
when it stretches between text

messages or IM’s the people on
each end, being unable to read
facial expressions, are left won-
dering what is going through
the other’s head.

When these waiting periods
are laid side-by-side with the
gendered forms in which men
and women speak a communi-
cation barrier springs up.

Linguistic anthropology
studies have determined that
when men and women com-
municate, women use qualiﬁers
like “would” or “could” and use

tions are from each other, from
our education, from our lives?

Are we speaking to each
other or are we talking at one
another? Are we simply play-
ing out the gendered roles that
were handed to us at birth?

If we resolve conﬁicts based
on gender assumptions, we
might not really be solving any-
thing.

If, like the couple in the
scene above, we continue to
ask the wrong questions and be
unhappy with wrong answers,

Are we really communicating? When we con-

verse with members of the opposite sex do we

really make clear who we are, what we want,

and what our expectations are... ?

open-ended questions and state-
ments that invite further conver-
sation.

Men tend to use clipped an-
swers and questions that shorten
communication. Neither gender
uses these strategies in a con-
scious way; they merely speak
in the manner in which they
were raised. Women are taught
to be polite; men, to be direct.
However, when a woman is di-

«rect and a- man is soft-spoken,
she is a bitch or a shrew and he
is weak. How enlightened.

This phenomena leads to
my true question: are we re-

When
we converse with members of
the opposite sex do we really
make clear who we are, what

ally communicating?

we want, and what our expecta-

we’re never going to get any-
where or understand each other
at all.

Who, in a ﬁght, is “sup-
posed” to -say sorry ﬁrst? Does
it depend on the subject of the
conflict at hand? Does it depend
how “important” the issue is?
What do we do when a member
of the opposite gender answers
a direct query with a word that
throws focus away from the true
topic?

For example, we’ll look at
the word “ﬁne.” An elusive
little creature, it carries layers
of meaning in its current cul-
tural context. It can mean that
someone is very sexually attrac-
tive; it can carry a general posi-
tive connotation, a fairly neutral
connotation or, most frustrat-

ingly, it can mean that there is
a lot to more to be said. The
problem with this word is that
when men use it, they generally

mean they’re feeling positive or .

neutral, but when women use it
they mean to imply that they’re
upset or dissatisﬁed; the reason
they’re not voicing their con-
cerns is that they feel they can-
not or should not.

Men tend to misunderstand
women’s implications when
they use “ﬁne” and then women
feel as if the men in their lives
aren’t trying hard enough. Fol-
lowing such an interaction, cha-
os and mayhem usually ensue
until someone ﬁnally expresses
themselves in a clear and articu-
late way.

Why then, if we all know of
words like “ﬁne”, do we con-
tinue to speak to each other in
unclear and frustrating half-
truths?

I think the problem is that
members of each gender fully
believe in the clarity of their
speech because in homogenous
groups it is completely clear.
Here at Washington and Lee,
modern technology .is rampant
and genders are pretty severely
segregated after freshman year.

We are rarely forced to use
cross-gender conversation skills
and we forget that certain words
have different connotations in
different settings.

If things are ever going to
change here, if we’re ever go-
ing to really communicate with
each other, we just have to keep
in mind that words have mul-
tiple meanings, and the value of
body language is priceless.

  
 
   
   
 
 
  

Profiles
in
Leadership:
Harry St. john

What energizes you
about taking on the re-
sponsibilities of campus
leadership? “Every day I have
the opportunity to try and moti-
vate my teammates, which is an
extremely challenging task, given
the length of a season. Luckily I
have two other captains, and ten
seniors, that are just as inspiring
and dedicated to lead this team.”

What has been one of
the most rewarding as-
pects of leadership at

University Scholar, Tri—captain of the

Lacrosse Team and member of Phi

Kappa Sigma

 

VV&L? “The most rewarding aspect of being a captain of the lacrosse

tea.m is the way in which I was elected. Anytime your teammates en-

trust you to represent themselves is an honor.”

What legacy of leadership do you hope you've left for others
at W&L? “We still have a long way to go, but I hope my teammates
will remember me as Completely dedicated member of this team, will-

ing to sacriﬁce absolutely anything for our betterment. Being a part of

the lacrosse team will be my greatest memory at Washington and Lee.”
Any words of advice for those who follow? “I'm still learn-
ing as I go — I'll get back to you on that one because there’s always room

for improvement.”

Tuesdays with Leadership:

Vocation and the Ethics o_fAmb1't1'on

12:15 and 6:30 P/ll, Room 214 Elrod Commons
Explore the concept of vocation in its relationship with both

a job or a career, and the importance of reflection

It ta lees more than

6.000! Locate
to get ajob!

 

Visit Career Services for:
Resume and Cover Letter Help
Practice Interviews
Job and Internship Resources
Networking Advice

Quick Questz'0ns  70-7 7am and 2-3pm
After Hours (T, U7, Th): 4-7 pm

VVJKSI-IINGTGN A=.\”I’.) I/IEF; I..lNl"¢'l:'i'lt2iiiT’t"’

CAREER@SERVICES

SOUTHERN INN
RES TA URAN T

A Downtown Lexington Tradition Since 1932

 

Now Serving

Brunch on
Saturday &
Sunday
Starting at
10:00 AM!

540-463-3612

Www.southerninn.com

37 S Main St
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

6 ' THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY,

MARCH 18, 2009

arts&|ife

 

 

    

 

Geoff Tate is improvisation and
creativity made the theater
Dubyuhnell by Neville L. Fogarty , ,
Head over to ringtiimphicrossword.biogspot.coni to check your solution to this week's puzzle! vlbrate wlth laugh ter
gﬁcross 9 {(3 ll 12 H  Khnbef 
1 "Freedom" food of STAFF WRITER
2003 '5
6 M ichael of in The General Activities Board gave students the oppor- .
"A‘”“’3‘e’‘l " tunity for a real laugh with Comedian Geoff Tate.Although
Dgevelolnnem 23 new to the scene, Tate has earned fame from several suc-
10 10"D°w"’ 53‘ 28 cessful shows as well as an appearance on Comedy Cen-
14 Bﬁmkfbrs _ tral. He graced the stage of the Stackhouse Theater on
15 Vs alkietaikie word Wednesday night
16 mm 0 S {Post cereal} ‘ _ ‘ _ Tate is relatively new to the world of professional com-
'l7 l8(), so to speak 3’ "4 35 "" - - - -
edy. He began his career in February 2003. Despite this,
18 Om ofmany in at Tate delighted and entertained everyone who made it out
many Monets to his Show.
20 Fonower amok“? 46 47 48 His erfoimance was uite well-attended It seems that
22 Sound Ofdeught 5; the Werdnesday night rejelries did not prevent students
23 Alt. to Chicago or fr . t th t
.I.umbim 55 om coming 0 e even .
24 Lesbian mm h The shotxlav had a bit of a rocky start, as feedback from
27 Gmmmous  e microp one disrupted‘Tate s opening remarks. Luck-
,, _ ily, technical difﬁculties did not stop Tate’s hilarious ﬂow
29 Desperate V’ ( ‘ M {,5 , , , _ _
Housewivesn locale 9- M > ) of humor. Like an expert, he took it in stride, using the
31 Ketchum 0f 6% opportunity to chastise the audience for avoiding the ﬁrst
"pQkem0,;" three rows and to poke fun at various attendees. .
32 christian name-\_) 69 70 71 Once the show got underway, the laughs did not stop.
33 Light sensitive
meinbraiie “ ,
3., Hardly mrming I thought he was more engaged with
39 Sarcastic 905 68 "Family Guy" father 12 "'I”wilight“ 43 Atkinson who the audience than most comedians who
sentence add~on 59 yam Clancy hem protagonist played Zazu in "The
41 Do It cashiers job Jack 13 Sort of flush 1-19“ King" come to L ”
42 Lincoln's Secretary 70 Be reicaseci, as an 19 Swissxfrencli river 44 Ready 70 E0 0”‘
ofState album 21 spelling of-‘"BeVcr[V 46 Turkish horioritic Joel Poelhuls Iunlor
45 Some are green 71 Kind of preview Hills 90210" 47 Goofs
48 A °"“.‘l’*“’3" hopes to Down 24 Cleans the geek 50 He Worked Em “There were literally moments when I could not breathe,”
keel’ ll black 25 One ofinaiiy in Z: TYCM 373419 . -
, _ 1 Winm. Wm, , said one amused audience member.
49 What 3 businessman supermarket 5} Like a women's bars , .
, ., , . , , _ _ Tate s humor was both topical and anecdotal. He ad-
may ha“? 3'‘ "00" 2 De“) ”1°“Iy 26 "Get outta here! " 52 Kitten at times
. _ _ _ - - _ H ‘_ , ‘ dressed such issues as the economy, international affairs,
52 50”“? Of tmﬁml 3 Sh? In 3 pm 2'7 l\'l£1j0]' artery 53 lower in Song of .
55 D00’ Pans 4 All “mghl up 28 Primes a new watch S"l°m0“ and college life. . . . .
56 Adams madam 5 Put audio and video 30 + or _ item 54 Stepping Stone in R The latter was something Tate admits to knowing little
. . to rethgy _ _ .. f about, as he did not attend college. However, his outsider’s
57 N11‘? T691119 E’ 34 Cake in greclicnt pm‘) . . . . . . .
58 Sticky Stuff 6 Milk dispensers? 35 Vice idem john 58 COOKS measy interpretation was hilarious, as were his theories regarding '
59 Movement with a 7 S’paceW‘E‘lk‘ 3'3‘ WW Ganier 0 Sufﬁ-X Whh Caesar the ecollomyi
second wave starting 8 Turn :1 film into a 36 Egyptian Symbols of 61 Half of a Mardi Gras Pamculary’ Tate asserted that the people who saved
in [kg 603 TV" show, perhaps life‘ song title money for college and those who spent that money on
62 punching bag in 9 Tissue type 38 Josh Harmm mm (,3 Beehive state native cigarettes are pretty much in the same boat.
cartoons 10 Eanhiink competitor "Black WW Down" 64 Grazing locate Tate also shared an absurdly comical story about when
66 llumorist Bonibeck 11 Cap features 40 [-iatfg more 55 [)e1uge refugg he once fought a Storm Trooper. He then wrapped up the
67 Responses to mice night with a joke he “literally wrote in the car” about what
the jingles would be like if Elton John opened a breakfast
restaurant.

Tate’s prepared jokes were very funny, but some of the
real gems of the evening were those he clearly made up
on the spot.

His interaction with the audience, in particular, stole

Q ’ . “ z‘ ‘( ‘ \{ the show. He bantered with a few people who arrived late

~ j 3.  A ‘ or left early, but he really hit his stride when he brutally

é e¢  E '\ tongue-lashed two young men who will remain anony-

mous.
‘PEDA§J CAR D"N'ER & Tm? T03: Am]: These late arrivals entered the theater about twenty .

minutes into the show, yelling in Russian. Tate’s reaction

. . " tfZ hGl'ﬁ k’ buk' hkl,

Order tram our complete menu ;:1a:i:ev’:‘;:3:::S:nw‘:aini:g‘ 3“ ‘S re mg a e° er

9’ Jam usfbr WW Ofawi ALL YOU CAN E’4TE“ﬂ €13‘, Junior Joel Poelhuis, who attended the event, said “I
, V thought he was more engaged with the audience than most

Friday Night Seafood auftet with Crab Legs 5pm~t0pm comedians who come to W&L”
Saturday  Prime  Dinner 5pm-10pm After the show, Tate shared a bit about his career. He
Sunday Baked Chicken, Pork Loin, & Pot Roast Ham~9pm cites Bill Cosby and Mitch Hedberg as his inﬂuences, but
Friday & Satorday Late Night Breakfast Bar tOpm~2am 116 aflmitted that before aétually Starting t° become a 00-
Breaktast Bar "Z Clays 3 Week 6am»? 1am “‘°d“‘“’ he “d}d“" k“°“’ 1‘ W“ ‘T ‘ea‘J°‘°‘”

Daiiy HQ: Country Bar ,3 1am_.§ mam . Once he.disco(\1/Zred that crucial Eict, l'(1:e S'CaI'c:6dC2lttet:1d1.

, . in 0 en mics an as now a eare on ome en a .

Dally Soup‘ Salad’ & Fruit Bar 1 iamui Opm Gfofl‘) Tate is married (sorrypl)adies) lives in Cincinnati

A . z‘nm'i€S Wu to enjoy  and owns a cocker spaniel.

l)l'd§3l" Bfﬁﬂkliiﬁl  l‘.lC§l.ll.‘$ 3 day,   3. Wﬁeltll ‘E 4 5% Those who missed the show can ﬁnd him on Youtube,
   or in L.A. and Minneapolis, where he will be perfonning

,, . , _ i, v in the coming weeks. Tate’s ﬁnal message to the W&L

Home Loziked Meals‘ & Sozdtzern .Ho.rpi!tzlzi[v.« TUESDAY WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY EVENINGS UNTIL 630 community was about Success. “if you do,” quit, evenm .
Lacateﬁl at ' ’ ' ally it’ll be alright.” Also, he wants everyone who didn’t
W   PM enjoy three courses of Shenandoah cuisine for $35 attend t° feel really bad-
. reservations strongly reconzniended
1431 Se l~64_. Exit 195, Z5lf3North Lee t-in-3:, ioexiagtoii, VA
540-463-3478  11 E. Washington Street Lexington 540-464-4401
Great food 3: a great coflectiort of www'ledhenIex'wm
Antique Pedal Cars 11'! Tl?! T6ySi OPEN TUESDAY’ FRIDAY FDR LUNCH AND DINNER SATURDAY EOR DINNER
U

 

  

 
 

M 0 N DAY, MARCH 16, 2009

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 7

 

arts&life

~ Artist talks about controversial exhibit

Christenberry addresses “Site and Posession ” including his KKK exhibit

 

0;

By Katie Hatﬂeld
STAFF WRITER

There is a new addition to
the Stanair Gallery and it’s not
a new exhibit. Since the open-
ing of William Christenberry’s
“Site and Posession” and the
“Klan Tableau,” work-study stu-
dents can be found guarding the
entrance to the exhibit. Clearly,
Christenberry’s work has gar-
nered a considerable amount of
controversey.

In an attempt to explain the
nature of the exhibit as well as
the thought behind it, the Staniar
Gallery staff has held a number
of discussions about the contro-
versial exhibit.

On Wednesday the Stanier
Gallery hosted an artist’s talk
and reception with renowned
photographer, painter, and sculp-
tor William Christenberry, in the
Concert Hall of Wilson Hall.

Several students as well as
local supporters of Christenber-
ry’s work turned out to hear him
discuss the many eclectic pieces
featured in his exhibit, Site/Pos-
session.

Christenberry’s lecture is one
of several in this series. Prior to
this event was the gallery’s open-
ing which included an introduc-

tion to the exhibit and a panel
discussion mediated by Art His-
tory Deparment Head George
Bent. Washington and Lee Pro-
fessors Pamela Simpson, Ted
Delaney, Marc Conner and VMI
professor Rob McDonald were
members of the panel.

Christenberry’s presentation
was peppered with many of his
own interesting and captivating
anecdotes.

Not only did these offer back-
ground on the slides projected,
they added a frank view of how
a photograph can capture more
than just an image, but a memo-
ry, a lifestyle, and a culture.

The key focus of Christenber-
ry’s works is that his photographs
are almost all taken from around
his hometown and the surround-
ing villages within Hale County,
Alabama. A place Christenberry
described as a “rusted worn out
bullet-ridden place.”

Christenberry’s works were
mostly focused on photographs
of vintage Southern Americana,
not unlike the works of Norman
Rockwell, just of a different gen-
eration. Though unlike Rockwell,
nothing was artiﬁcial within his
works; he was not an illustrator.
In his photographs, the lighting
was never forced, and the sub-

jects were never altered.

“I was not contented with
total abstraction in my paint-
ings as a student,” Christenberry
explained about how he got his
start in the medium of photogra-
phy.

Christenberry who received
a B.A. and Masters in Fine Arts

had just a shutter an a release and
no focus. However, though there
are very few left in existence
with the advent of high tech digi-
tal technology, the Brownie is a
medium he still utilizes, along
with an 8x10 View camera.
Though Christenberry is very
accomplished as an artist, fame

“I was not contented with total abstraction

in my painting as a student... [I was ] consid-

ered a pioneer of color photography. I don ’t

know why... [I] have somewhat of a reputa-

tion as a photographer. ’

William Christenberry, artist

) .

from the University of Alabama
at Tuscaloosa, is a fan, to this
day, of the Crimson Tide. “Ob-
sessively so,” he admits.

Christenberry, at the begin-
nings of his career, took pictures
of the “landscape of my child-
hood” with a Kodak Brownie
Camera.

Incredibly rudimentary as an
instrument, the Brownie camera

has not appeared to have gone to
his head. Explaining sincerely,
“[1 was] considered a pioneer of
color photography. I don’t know
why.” And adding, ‘‘[I] have
somewhat of a reputation as a
photographer.”

Though he often did not know
the purpose of a unique looking
building or those who may have
dwelled inside, he developed a

kind of relationship with what he
described as “vemacular archi-
tecture,” often returning annu-
ally to photograph it again.

One photograph in particu-
lar, of a sun bleached barbeque
hangout, he returned to often for
twenty years until the building
was knocked down and all that
remained was the cement plot on
which it once stood.

Christenberry aims to pre-
serve such architecture with
his photographs, drawings, and
sculptures because, “the most
cookie cutter kind of things go
up in their places,” he explained.

The locations he was particu-
larly fond of he turned into min-
iature sculptures.

Christenbeny, though ver-
bose, provided a very entertain-
ing and enlightening experience
to those enrolled in arts courses.

“I have to say it was the best
lecture by a visiting artist that
I have attended so far, “ siad
Sophomore Jack Pandol of the
presentation.”

“As a student in Photography
2, I really appreciated his docu-
mentarian approach to photog-
raphy, as well as the funny and
interesting stories he was able
to present with almost every im-
age. Christenberry himself was

a true Southern gentleman, and
his Southern drawl really accen-
tuated the narrative style that he
presented his work wit .”

Kate Gibbs added, “William
Christenberry was a really great
speaker. He really brought mean-
ing to his beautiful exhibit.”

Though, even those not en-
rolled in arts courses could iden-
tify with his avuncular attitude
and friendly narrative tone.

To the disappointment of
many audience members, Chris-
tenberry was quite evasive when
it came to questions about his
Klan Tableau.

Sometimes failing to answer
questions and in other instnaces
telling a somewhat distracting
anecdote, it seemd that the art-
ist did not want to talk about the
deeply personal exhibit.

Christenberry’s exhibit, Site/
Possession, will be on display
in the Stanier Gallery until April
10.

Those in the art department
are also fortunate enough to en-
tertain Christenberry for a week
as a visiting artist during his ex-
hibition.

ie;~s.:..5:  :—2‘* i..~-4;.-3.
me . ' "

E; _\.(:)VE OUR N .1

Emily Ackerman

Christina Benedetti
Lauren Borden
Anna Kathryn Clark

Melissa Dahl

Lizz Dye
Casey Ernstes
Dana Fredericks
Tricia King
Ashley Leinweber

Ali Longobardo

if 

Annie Martin

Anne Masich
Maddie McKaig

Claire Moryan

Eva Rofﬁs
Ellen Rogers
Gillian Sacks
Katie Salvati
Alex Shabo

Corinne Smith

Brooke Sutherland

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2009

  

8 ° THE RING-TUM PHI

sports

 

 

       

       
  
 

TUES WED Tuuns FRI

 

SUN
V5

vs
Southern ;: PSU-
Basebau Vlrglnla 3 m Kenslngton
3 mm. p' ' 12 p.m.
at
If
G° Jekyll Island collegiate
vs vs
M°“’5 Sewanee . *
Lacrosse
7 p.m. 4 pm-
vs vs vs
womenvs Trlnlty Sweet Vlrglnla
I-BI-T0550 (conn.) Brlar Wesleyan
4 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 1 p.m.
vs vs
vs
Many; Hampden-~ carnegle
Tennls Rzndolph Sydney Mellon
pm‘ 3:30 p.m. TBA
Vs vs vs at

1 women’; R°;"a‘;k° James carnegle Emory &
: Tennls R_Mc Madison Mellon Henry

, 4 p_m_ 4 p.m. 12 p.m. 2 p.m.

‘ at

‘ Menrs Lynchburg

' Track lnvlte

j 9 a.m.

l at

1

‘women’s Lynchburg]

i T|'a¢K lnvlte

, 9 a.m.

  

  numbers
6

The number of overtime periods in the Syracuse—Connectiout Big East
tournament quarterﬁnals Thursday. After never leading in the ﬁrst five

overtimes, Syracuse won the game 127-117.

0

The number of W&L women track and ﬁeld athletes to earn indoor All-
American accolades before Stacy Doombos placed fourth in the pen-

tathlon at the NCAA Indoor Championships this weekend.

551

The number of career regular season wins by New Jersey Devils goalie
Martin Brodeur after the Devils beat the Canadiens Saturday. Brodeur
is tied with retired goalie Patrick Roy for the most all-time victories.

The Devils take on the Chicago Blackhawks Tuesday.

9,507

The number of career points scored by Miami Heat guard Dwayne
Wade. Only 27 years old, Wade passed retired center Alonzo Mourn-
ing as the all-time franchise scoring leader in a win Saturday over the

Utah Jazz.

 box

“I was only wearing two things when I hit the

 

shot: my jocks and my golf glove. Shirt, trousers,
socks, shoes, hat, the lot was off. Obviously, play-
ing in Florida I didn’t have any rain gear in the
bag, so that option went out of the window.”

Swedlsh golfer Henrlk Stenson after he took of hls clothes to hlt
a ball near the edge of a water hazard Thursday at the WGC-CA
Champlonshlp at Doral. Stenson ﬂnlshed tied for 77th place at +11
on the weekend. Courtesy of sports.yahoo.com.

“I don’t anticipate it this season. Obviously we will
do it. We’ve made that commitment. He deserves
to have his number retired. I just think both sides

need some time.”

Green Bay Packers team president and CEO Mark Murphy Saturday
vowing to retire Brett Favre’s]ersey at some point. There was tenslon
last summer between Favre and the Packers when the future Hall of
Famer declded he wanted to return from retirement but the Packers
did not want hlm back. courtesy of espn.com.

Generals race at N CAAs

Stacy Doornbos and Elizabeth Webb place fourth and ninth, respectively

By Megan Dally
smrr want»:

This past Friday and Saturday, almost
450 track and ﬁeld athletes from 134 dif-
ferent schools competed in the NCAA
Division III Indoor Track and Field Na-
tional Championships at the Rose-Hu1-
man Sports and Recreation Center in
Terre Haute, Ind.

The Washington and Lee women’s
track team had two athletes qualify to
compete this year. There had previously
only been one woman in the history of the
Generals’ indoor track and ﬁeld program
to qualify for indoor nationals.

The women’s track team had an in-
credible season. From the very beginning
meet at VMI, W&L posted strong results.
The team kept building throughout the
year and garnered impressive results.
Several school records were shattered,
and it culminated in the team’s winning
the ODAC indoor championship.

Senior Stacy Doombos, who is a three-
year letterwinner and a team captain,
qualiﬁed for the meet at the University
of Wisconsin-Whitewater Last Chance
Pentathlon with a school-record setting
performance and a facility record of 3395
total points for the pentathlon earlier this
season.

Senior Elizabeth Webb, who also is a
three-year letterwinner and a team cap-
tain, qualiﬁed for the meet at the Lafay-

ette-Rider Winter Games with a record
setting mile time of 5:00.91. Webb has
really shown consistent improvement
throughout her career. She was named the
ODAC Farm Bureau Scholar-Athlete of
the Year for the second consecutive year
and was the Co—Athlete of the Meet at the
ODAC championship.

Looking back at her career, Doombos
said, “Running for the Generals the past
four years has been awesome. My senior

shot put, leaped 5.47 meters in the long
jump and had another personal-best of
2:27.08 in the 800 meters. With this out-
standing performance Doombos became
the ﬁrst W&L woman track athlete to
achieve All-America honors in the indoor
season.

Webb competed in the mile and ran a
time of 5:01.36 in the preliminary round
on Friday. This seventh-place preliminary
ﬁnish was good enough to advance to the

“Running for the Generals the past four years has been

awesome. My senior year has been great because I don ’t

take any race for granted knowing that it is one of my last

here at W&L. ”

Stacy Doombos, senior

year has been great because I don’t take
any race for granted knowing that it is
one of my last here at W&L.”

Doombos certainly did not take the
indoor ﬁnals for granted; she competed
Friday and placed fourth in the pentath-
lon. For a combined total of 3,390 points,
Doombos ran 8.81 in the 55 meters,
cleared 1.48 meters in the high jump,
tossed a personal-best 10.43 meters in the

ﬁnals. Webb completed the race with a
time of 5:03.90 for a ninth-place ﬁnish.

After such a successful indoor track
campaign, expectations are set high for
the outdoor season. The Washington and
Lee men’s and women’s outdoor track
and ﬁeld teams begin their 2009 seasons
on Saturday at the Lynchburg Invitation-
al.

Men’s lacrosse tops F&M

Generals use fourth-quarter comeback to beat the Diplomats

By Wlll Dorrance
sponrs EDITOR

The nationally 10th-ranked Wash-
ington and Lee’s men’s lacrosse team
downed Franklin and Marshall (F&M)
7-6 Saturday on rainy Wilson Field.

Last year, the Generals fell to F&M
7-8 in overtime on March 15, but Satur-
day’s game proved to be different.

W&L’s junior midﬁelder Chris Wash-
ington opened up the scoring with 5:53 to
play in the ﬁrst quarter off an assist from
junior attackman Will Keigler. Behind
two goals from Keigler, the Generals
then alternated scores with the visiting
Diplomats to seemingly tie the game at
three as the clock was winding down in
the second quarter.

With just one second left in the half,
though, W&L senior attackman Seth
F ishman found the back of the net on an
unassisted goal to put the Generals ahead
4-3 going into intermission.

The Diplomats took over in the third
quarter scoring three goals compared to
the home team’s zero. Down 4-6 heading

into the game’s last 15 minutes, W&L
scored three goals in three minutes and
blanked F &M to secure the 7-6 non-con-
ference victory.

Talking of the difference in the team’s
play from the third to the fourth quarter,
Fishman said, “I think that their was a
collective feeling on this team that we
were not going to lose this game. We had
a tough loss to F&M last year, which left
a bad taste in our mouth. It was a game
that we felt we let slip away and refused
to let it happen again. We knew what we
needed to do going into the fourth quarter
and refused to let their third-quarter run
get us down.”

Keigler paced the Generals with two
goals and three assists. F ishman netted
two tallies while senior captain midﬁelder
registered one goal and one assist. Senior
captain Conor Locke played the entire
game in goal, recording nine saves.

The Diplomats were led by senior at-
tackman Mark Hild’s two goals and one
assist. Junior Chris Marcozzi stopped 14
shots in between the pipes for F &M.

The Generals outshot their opponents

35-24 and collected 14 more ground
balls.

While W&L did come out on top, the
rain did not allow the Generals to play
their best lacrosse.

Fishman said, “I don’t think that we
really executed the X’s and O’s like we
thought we would in this game, but our
comeback revealed a lot about the nature
of our team. Even though it was not the
prettiest win, we toughed it out and got
the W.”

W&L now sits at 6-0 on the year and
faces off against Sewanee in a home
match-up Wednesday at 7:00 p.m.

The team is heading into its last three
non-conference games before it begins
its ODAC schedule March 28.

“We just need to keep getting better.
Every game for us is another step towards
our goal of winning an ODAC champion-
ship and of playing in the NCAA touma-
ment. We can’t take any team for granted
and need to make sure that we play four
good quarters of lacrosse in each game in
order to prepare us for ODACS.”

ODAC Standings

As of Sunday
Baseball Men’s Tennis
Em Conf. Oiill Tam Conf. Oﬂall
1. Virginia Wesleyan 2-0 11-4 1. WASHINGTON & LEE 5-0 8-2
2. Lynchburg 2-0 1 1-6 2. Hampden-Sydney 2-0 2-2
3. Hampden-Sydney 2-1 7-8 3. Randolph-Macon 1-1 2- l
4. Guilford 1-1 10-5-1 4. Bridgewater 1-1 2-3
5. Roanoke 1-1 6-7 5. Emory & Hemy 0-1 3-5
6. Eastern Mennonite 1-1 6-9-1 6, Lynchburg 0- 1 1-3
7. Bridgewater 1- 1 6-9 7. Randolph 0- 1 1-4
8. WASHINGTON & LEE 1-2 9-4 8. Roanoke 0-1 0-3
9. Randolph-Macon 0-2 4-8 ‘ 9. Virginia Wesleyan 0-1 0-5
10. Emory & Henry ,0-2 2-8 10. Guilford 0-2 0-3
Women’s Lacrosse Women’s Tennis
Tj C0_I1f- E111 M Conf. L

1. Virginia Wesleyan 2-0 3-3 1. WASHINGTON & LEE 2-0
2. WASHINGTON & LEE 1-0 3-2 2. Virginia Wesleyan 1-0
3. Sweet Briar 0-0 3-0 3. Emory & Hemy 1-0
4. Lynchburg 0-0 3-1 4. Sweet Briar 1-1
5. Hollins 0-0 1-1 5. Bridgewater 1-1
6. Randolph-Macon 0-0 1-1 6. Hollins 1-1
7. Roanoke 0-0 3-3 7. Lynchburg 1-1
8. Guilford 0- 1 2-4 8. Randolph-Macon 1-2
9. Bridgewater 0-2 1-3 9. Randolph 0-O

NOTE: The ODAC has yet to begin Its ‘°~ R°a“°ke 0*’

men’s lacrosse conference schedule. 11. Guilford 0-3

0

 

 

