 

THE WEATHER

Tonight: Partly cloudy; low near 50,
Saturday: Chance of showers; high in
80's.

Sunday: Fair and cooler,

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

Convention
Edition

 

Volume LXVII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 3, 1968

Number 50

 

Gov. Kirk Keynotes Mock Convention Opening

i

Citizens of Lexington Display
Convention Spirit In Parade

Washington and Lee’s 14th Mock
Convention for the party out of power
opened at 1:30 this afternoon with
the traditional Convention parade.

The parade route started at Lex-
ington High School, went down Route
11 through Main St. and then out
Route 60 to Liberty Hall ruins, The
mayor of Lexington issued a procla-
mation marking today as “Mock Con-
vention Day.” The local merchants

 

Mahan Awards Presented
For Student Manuscripts
Of Creative Writing

The Mahan Awards consist of a
one-hundred dollar exemption from
college fees during the year following
the one in which the award is made,
or the option of sixty dollars cash.
There are five awards—four in prose,
and one in verse.

The four prose awards are divided
into three catagories. There are two
freshman prose awards, one sopho-
more prose award, and one junior
prose award, The verse award may
be submitted by men from any class
in the college except seniors.

The judges may decide to depart
from this distribution, but under no
circumstances will more than five
awards be made. This year only one
freshman prose award was given.

The winners of this years Mahan
Awards in Prose were freshman
Michael Hasty, Delta Upsilon from
Alexandria, Va., “Caution: Cigarette
Smoking May Be Hazardous to Your

(Continued on Page 6)

Admiralty Law
To Be Subject
Of Greer Talk

By DOWNS LITTLE

Mr. Frank Greer, presently affili-
ated with the law firm of Williams,
Worrell, Kelley and Worthington of
Norfolk, will be the guest lecturer in
“Admiralty Law” of the W&L School
of Law and the Student Bar Associa-
tion in the third-floor east room of
Tucker Hall, Tuesday, May 7 at
4:00 p.m.

A native of Newport, Tennessee,
Mr. Greer pursued his undergraduate
studies at Georgetown University and
his legal education at the W&L
School of Law where he was a
member of Phi Delta Phi law fra-
ternity. Following his graduation in
1951, Mr. Greer entered the Norfolk
law firm.

Among Mr. Greer's various activi-
ties are memberships in the Norfolk
and Portsmouth, Virginia State and
American Bar Associations; Virginia
Board of Bar Examiners (1963-—);
International Association of Insur-
ance Counsel,

Actually the full title of his lecture
is “Law of Admiralty and Maritime
Jurisdiction.” Essentially Admiralty
Law cases encompass personal injury
cases involving merchant seamen and
longshoremen as well as collisions
between vessels. Recently, these cases
have become increasingly complex,

(Continued on Page 6)

 

 

decorated the parade route with flags
and banners, and the crowds lined
Main St.

Republican Representative William
E. Brock III from Tennessee, a Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus, headed the
parade as marshal. There were ap-
proximately 30 floats from the various
states in the parade, as well as the
elephants, symbols of the GOP.

A number of state beauty queens
graced the state delegation flats. They
include a former Miss South Carolina,
Miss Nancy Moore of Aiken, the 1965
titlist; Miss Texas, Miss Molly Grubb
of Tyler, and the first alternate Miss
Pennsylvania 1967, Miss Kathy Ann
Reeder.

Featured attractions included a
1919 Duesenburg and a 1928 Isetto
Fascheni. The cars, both collectors
items formally featured at the Natural
Bridge Museum, were used to trans-
port the various dignitaries.

The reviewing stand was located
on the lawn of President Huntley's
house.

 

 

History Marked by Off-beat Moments

Hot Tempers Decided Past Conventions

From its beginning 60 years ago,
the Washington and Lee Mock Con-
vention has had its share of off-beat
moments.

The first Convention in 1908, be-
gun as a class project under the
inspiration of political science Prof.
W. Jett Lauck, erupted into near
chaos. A fight broke out in the
Kansas delegation, and elsewhere
things became so heated several
delegates offered to retire outside to
settle their differences.

The National Democratic Party,
convening later in Denver, confirmed
the WAL choice of William Jennings
Bryan, the first of nine successes in
13 attempts.

A student who preferred tennis to
politics had a profound effect on the
1936 outcome, when the students
erred and picked Arthur Vanden-
burg for the Republicans.

After early balloting produced
only deadlocks, a shift began among
the larger delegations toward Vanden-
burg. Pennsylvania delegates twice
were polled and had their vote count
reversed until—according to a con-
temporary account—“an errant dele-
gate (was) brought in from the tennis
courts and voted for Vandenburg.”

Vandenburg won the nomination on
that ballot by only seven votes.

In 1940, the New York delegation
bolted the Convention because, they

Delegations Sponsor
Convention Parties

Maryland Delegation—noon to 2:00
p.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Saturday. Clams, oysiers, and beer.
Closed.

Mississippi, Florida, West Virginia,
Tennessee and Alabama delegations

8:00 p.m. to midnight Saturday.
Closed.

Texas Delegation—Afier final ad
journment Saturday. Back yard of
the Phi Kap house. Closed.

WEEKLY CALENDAR

May 3, 1968 to May 8, 1968
TODAY—May 3

4.00 pom
7:30 pm

Mock Convention Opening Session
Mock Convention Platform Session

TOMORROW—May 4

100 a.m.—tHalloting Session

Department of Journalism and Communication presents a film,

Reid Hall 203

rally Law.” Sponsored by

drawings. prints and sculpture

duPont Gallery. Opening and reception today. (Through May 31)

2:15 p.m.—Balloting Session
MONDAY—May 6
4:30 p.m.—Faculty Meeting. New Science 305
7:30 pm
“Band a Part” Uean-Lue Godard)
TUESDAY—May 7
4:00 p.m—lack FE. Greer will speak on “Adm
SHA. South Reom, Law School
4:00 p.m.—Exshibition of student paintings,
WEDNESDAY—May 8
$:30 p.m.—Senior Banquet. Reception at the Alumni House

7:00 p.m.—Senior Banquet. Dinner

Fvans Dining Hall

 

said, their chairman was actually from
South Carolina. Pennsylvania also
walked out in sympathy, but all were
persuaded to return when the chair-
man sent a telegram stating he had
an apartment on Fifth Avenue and
“spent the majority of his time there.”

A shortage of adding machines
changed the 1960 outcome. Unoffici-
ally, Adlai Stevenson was well over
the necessary majority on the fourth
ballot, but the lack of adding ma-
chines caused a delay in announcing
the official total.

—

Several states quickly switched, re-
ducing Stevenson's total below the
necessary majority. Two ballots later
—after more adding machines were

Work Began Four Years Ago

By CHIP HARRIS

Fhe coming weekend will transpire
for the great majority of the Wash-
ington and Lee community as a
pleasant interruption—both different
and interesting, but for a few, it will
also mark the culmination of months,
and, in a few cases, years, of effort
and time spent to insure the week-
end will merit the national acclaim
bestowed upon it.

Planning for the 1968 Mock Con-
vention was initiated in October of
1964, when the Interim Coordinating
Committee was established under the
direction of H. Davis Mayfield and
Steve Saunders, whose terms expired
the following year. In 1965, Mayfield
was appoinied sole chairman of the
Interim Committee until his with-
drawal from the University one month
later. To fill the vacaney created by
Mayfield’s departure, Steve Saunders
was again appointed chairman of the
Commitiee, a position he was
appointed to until May of 1967, when
he was made permanant chairman.

The Interim Commitiee was orga-
nized into regional managers who
presided over districts which coincid-
ed with the districts served by the
Executive Commitieemen of the Re-
publican National Committee. The
imterim bedy maintained ties with
Republican leaders and followed the
various issues confronting the party

Fe

The present Secretariat was created
upon Saunders installment as perma-
nent chairman. Composed for the
most part of members of the Interim
Committee, the Secretariat immedi
ately began formulating plans for
this weekend's activities

The posi of Secretary to the Con-
vention is held by James Lowe. As
mainiains the Conven-
handles all correspond
efice, position of
chairman with the Secretariat

Mike Miles. as Director of Finances
is Fesponsibile for bookkeeping and all

secretary he
fon records

and correlates the

monetary matters, as well as fund
raising
Ihe chairman of the National

{ ommitice

Stafford Keegan, presides

over the opening sessiofis of the con

Gov. Claude Kirk of Florida

brought in—John F. Kennedy captur-
ed the nomination.

In 1964, the leader of the Scranton
forces was downcast after students
picked Barry Goldwater over his
candidate. “What happened here isn't
going to happen in San Francisco,”
he told a Washington, D.C. reporter.
He was wrong.

The greatest guess, of course, came
in 1924, when the students solved
the marathon deadlock between Smith
and William G. McAdoo by compro-
mising on alumnus John W. Davis
on the 23rd ballot. The real con-
vention in New York hit the same
stalemate and took 104 ballots be-
fore coming up with the same choice.

 

i

vention and serves
| fifty state chairmen.
Andrew Colclough, chairman of
the Platform Committee, is in charge
of drafting the Convention's platform
and presenting it to the convention
for admendment and acceptance.
Colclough is aided by a platform
staff, comprised of Christopher Chan-
dor, Ronald Gates, Brad Shufflebarger,
Sieve Wittmann, David Oliver, Jeff
Fox, Roger Clarke, Dick Gordon,
Dick Tanner, and Ed Armentrout,
Ronald Kessler, former co-director
of State Delegations, has assumed the

 

ao

DECORATORS have been working since carly this week to prepare De

*the Convention,

 

as adviser to ™

 

Gov. Bellmon, Rep. Brock

Also Serve As O

Gov, Claude R. Kirk of Florida
will set the pace for W&L’s 14th
Mock Convention this afternoon in
the session beginning at 4:00 p.m,

Although various parts of the
organization have been meeting for
months, the parade through Lexing-
ton earlier today began the Re-
publican Mock Convention for the
general community and for most of
the University,

The Opening Session will be called
to order by Stafford Keegin, Chair-
man of the Republican National Com-
mittee. Mayor Douglas E, Brady of
Lexington, who has declared this
“Mock Convention Day,” will speak
prior to the normal Convention busi-
ness, with Congressman Bill Brock
of Tennessee serving as temporary
chairman.

W&L alumnus Linwood Holton of
Roanoke will introduce Gov. Kirk,
whose speech officials predict will
elicit demonstrations on the floor of

The Platform Session will convene
at 7:30 p.m. tonight. A new feature
in the Mock Convention, Drew
Colclough’s Platform Committee has

 

made an effort to predict accurately

 

the platform which will be adopted
at the real convention in Miami. De-
bate is expected on several planks
after the document is read by former
Gov. Henry Bellmon of Oklahoma.
Permanent Chairman Steve Saund-
ers will convene the Balloting Ses-
sion at 10:00 a.m. tomorrow, and it

 

Registration

Registraiton for the fall semester
of next year will begin Puesday, May
7, and will continue through Thurs-
day, May 9. Students should register
with their Freshman Advisers or with
a professor in the department of their
major.

A fee of $25.00 should accompany
the registraion forms.

duties of Director following the death
of his Co-director, Tom Baremore. He
coordinates the Secretariat with the
state chairmen, and ascertains the
completion of delegation duties,

Directory of Publicity is Ed Allen,
whose post entails publicizing the
Convention and preparing for the
press.

Val McWhorter, as Chief of Proto-

 

col, coordinates arrangements and
accommodations for visiting digni-
laries.

(Continued on Page 6) *

Se gene ce ee

 

remus Gym for the

e

 

 

co °
icials

is at this time that the state chair-
men, after consideration of state-by-
state polls taken earlier this year, will
try and maintain W&L’s record for
correct predictions which has won it
nationwide acclaim as the “most
realistic and accurate” of any col-
lege mock convention. The Mock
Convention has successfully predicted
the Presidential nominee for the
party out-of-power nine of thirteen
times and is currently hoping for an
unprecedented fifth straight correct
prediction,

 

 

The Convention has not been wrong
since it picked Vandenburg over
Dewey in 1948,

The final Balloting Session will con-
vene at 2:15 tomorrow afternoon and
will continue until the Mock Con-
vention has selected a nominee for
both President and Vice-President. A
simple majority of 667 votes is need-
ed to nominate.

 

 

Class asilens

Set For Monday

Elections for offices in the rising
senior, junior, and sophomore classes
will be held Monday from 8:25 a.m.
until 2:00 p.m. Juniors and sopho-
mores will vote at Washington Hall,
while the ballot box for freshmen
will be placed in the quad.

A primary Wednesday narrowed
down the field of candidates for the
offices of senior president and science
school vice-president and sophomore
vice-president and EC representatives.
The four top EC candidates and two
leading presidential and vice-presi-
dential candidates will be on Mon-
day's ballot.

In the senior class presidental pri-
mary, Worth Blackwell and Bucky
Cunningham beat Bob Matthews,
Jerry Perlman, and Garland Tucker.
Blackwell led the slate with 60 votes,
with Cunningham only one vote be-
hind. Jay Thiemeyer with 17 votes
and Steve Larson with 12 beat Tom
Blanton in the race for vice-president
of the science school. The final tally
showed that 139 votes were cast in
this contest,

Other candidates for senior class
offices are Rob Bauer, Bill Brown,
Jeb Brown, and Herb Crenshaw for
EC; Mark Eaker for vice-president of
the Commerce School; and Luke
Coleman for vice-president of the
School of Liberal Arts.

The sophomore primary left Staman
Ogilvie and Joe Tompkins with a
strong lead, polling 156 and 149 votes
respectively. John McCardell with 79

(Continued on Page 6)

  
 

 

2 aii ay
Mock Convention.
photo by Pdwards

- — ee
 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday, May 3, 1968

 

Can Rocky Stop Nixon?

The Washington and Lee Republican Mock Convention,
which gets under way today, suddenly gained in importance
Tuesday when New York Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller

officially entered the race for his party’s nomination for Pres-

ident of the United States.

It is unfortunate he has entered the race so late. Right
now it appears that the bandwagon for former Vice-President
Richard M. Nixon has rolled to just short of the necessary
number of delegate votes needed to nominate him for Presi-
dent. However, it should be realized that a victory for Rocke-
feller at our Mock Convention, which will be followed care-
fully by the national press and by the party leaders, as well
as by the candidates themselves, will provide him with an un-
paralled boost and put him back into the race.

Whether Rockefeller can win the nomination or not re-
mains to be seen. What is certain, however, is that our Mock
Convention has again been thrust into the limelight and will
be used as an indicator to determine whether Nixon can be
stopped short of the nomination in August.

—N.S.K.

Open Housing In Lexington

Everyone seems to have become much more racially con-
scious after the death of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. How
is this consciousness affecting the girl’s schools neighboring

Washington and Lee?

We notice that Sweet Briar took a poll of approved hous-
ing concerns in Lexington to determine how many of the
hostesses would keep Negro girls in their homes. The results
showed that there are only three hostesses available for Negro
students here. In addition, when two hostesses on the regular
approved list were asked if they would take a Negro student,
the first said she did not think her husband would let her, and
the second said she was afraid the white girls would object.

The latter comment seems to be holding up less and less.
As of April 23, 472 Sweet Briar students had signed a petition
in which they expressed a desire to remedy the above situation.
Hollins and Randolph-Macon Woman’s College have also
threatened to boycott any home in Lexington which will not
allow Negro students to stay there. What should be formulated
is one approved housing list for each of the schools for all

girls, regardless of their race.

This may seem far removed from some of us now, but as
Washington and Lee and our neighbors accept more Negro
students (at least five were accepted here this year) this may
become a real problem. Maybe it can be nipped in the bud.

—N.S.K.

 

i
'

Candidates’

Hopes

 

RICHARD M. NIXON

Nixon: Strategy Changed;
Victory Still Is Expected

By CHIP DAY

Governor Nelson Rockefeller’s re-
cent re-entry into the Republican
race for the Presidential nomination
will alter the Nixon campaign staft’s
Convention strategy. Prior to Mr.
Rockefeller’s announcement Tuesday,
our only problem was how to have
Mr. Nixon nominated on the first
ballot. Now that Michigan has an-
nounced George Romney as its fav-
orite son and Rockefeller is now back
in the race, a first ballot victory for
Nixon is virtually impossible. That
is the only hurdle, however, that the
New York Governor has placed in
Nixon's path.

While Rocky was still in the race
during early March, Nixon had enough
votes, disregarding favorite sons, to
win on the first ballot. Some of these
votes shifted from Rocky to Nixon
in February because of the former's
reluctance to take a stand. Surely,
the Rockefeller camp cannot now ex-
pect these erstwhile Rocky delegates
to come stampeding back to the
Rockefeller cause. Politicians do not
favor in-again-out-again candidates,
and the Governor will surely suffer
because of his political “minuet.”

Nixon On First Ballot?

Why cannot Richard Nixon gain a
first ballot victory? There is a plethora
of favorite son candidates in line for
nomination in tomorrow's balloting
session. Some of them will be legiti-

| mate nominations; others will be ques-

tionable. If Claude Kirk were not

 

Campaign Promotes ‘Creative Society’

Reagan: Let A Winner Lead The Way

By CRAIG DESBOROUGH

The Reagan for President Commit-
tee has set as the theme of its cam-
paign: “Let a Winner Lead the Way.”
This theme denotes the winning cap-
ability of Governor Reagan as dem-
onstrated in his gubernatorial race in
California doing what two nationally
prominant Republican candidates
could not do: win over former gov-
ernor Pat Brown and by a one
million vote plurality, further dem-
onstrating his ability to win Democrat
and independent voters, as well as
keeping a united Republican Party
behind him.

The Reagan campaign is promot-
ing the concept of a “Creative So-
ciety” as opposed to the Great Society
welfarism as the solutions to the prob-
lems which face America today, The
Creative Society places emphasis on
the roles of the independent sector,
private enterprise and state and local
governments in solving the problems
which confront our society.

The Reagan campaign is placing

 

 

special emphasis on Governor Rea-
gan’s strong stand in favor of law and
order and against crime and civil
disobedience. His promotion of local
law enforcement agencies, plus his
application of the Creative Society
concept (getting private enterprise to
provide job training and jobs for the
unemployed; thus, getting jobs for
17,500 of the 25,000 unemployed
under the Brown administration in
the Watts area alone, at no cost to
the taxpayer) kept California calm
and peaceful, unlike the rest of the
nation which erupted in civil turmoil
at the death of Martin Luther King.

The Reagan campaign feels of
special interest to students and all
young people in Governor Reagan's
stand against the compulsory draft.
Governor Reagan has stated: “I have
often wondered why we couldn't, with
the brainpower and know-how we
have in this country, evolve a pro-
gram of inducement to enlistment,
incentives to enlist, to see if we could
not switch to the voluntary system.”

The Ring-tom Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesdays and Fridays during the college
year, It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879,

Subscription rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

MICHAEL R. DUNN
Editor-in-Chief

EDITOR-ELECI
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
EDITORIAL CONSULTANI
NEWS EDITOR

EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
ADMINISTRATIVE EDITOR
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
ASSOCIATE EDITOR
STAPF REPORTERS
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR
INTRAMURAL EDITOR

GREGORY E. PARKER
Business Manager

Neil Kessler

Ron Kessler

Jerry Perlman

Bob Entzminger
Lawrence McConnell
Charlie Freret

Chip Harris

Herb Griffith, Frank Rose
Bill Jacobs

Harry Mitchell, Downs Little
Roy Carlton

Thunder Thornton

The Reagan for President Comit-
tee is making a special effort to get
Governor Reagan's overwhelming
record of executive and administrative
experience prior to his becoming Gov-
ernor of California before the con-
vention delegates. Ronald Reagan
served as president of the (15,000-
member-strong AFL-CIO Union)
Screen Actor's Guild for six terms and
a member of its Board of Directors
for 14 years. Further, he served as
President of the Motion Picture In-
dustry Council for two term sand
a member of its Board of Directors
for 10 years

The Reagan for President Commit
tee hopes Governor Reagan will an
nounce his candidacy for the Presi
dency officially in the near future, It
respects the professional polls which
show him with over 350 first-ballot
votes with his declared candidacy.
In the WAL Mock convention, the
Reagan committee expects sirong and
solid first ballot support from West-
ern states and Southern States, as well

(Continued on page 4)

 

RONALD

 

=

   

the keynote speaker and the Governor
of Florida, he most likely would
not be nominated as a favorite son
in either Lexington or Miami; not-
withstanding his colorful political
ambitions as a leader of the Re-
publican party. It is also questionable
whether Governor Love of Colorado
will receive a speech in Miami.

And it is curious that the Hawaii
delegation will nominate Senator
Hiram Fong of that state as they
have not received a single response
to inquiries on how to distribute their
votes. Of course several of the fav-
orite son nominations will have some
foundation. Maryland’s Spiro Agnew
will be thrown in, as will George
Romney, in an attempt to stall Mr.
Nixon on the first ballot and thus
give Rockefeller (both Agnew and
Romney are Rocky fans) at least a
sporting chance. Conversely, however,
at least two states may sacrifice a
favorite son nomination and cast their
Nixon votes on the first ballot in
order to receive the vice-presidential
nod from Nixon. Notably among
these are Illinois (Percy) and Massa-
chusetts (Volpe).

Strategy Secret

The Nixon campaign strategy has
been altered slightly in view of Rocke-
feller’s big-step-forward earlier this
week. As Nixon supporters, we are
heartily pleased that Mr. Nixon finally
has an opponent whom he can utilize
to destroy his press-created loser’s
image.

As to our strategy—we realistically
prefer to keep that confidential until
the Saturday morning session on the
Convention floor. One aspect of our
plan that we have already revealed
is our intention of having the noisiest,
most exuberant, and colorful post-
nomination speech demonstration the
WAL Mock Convention has ever
seen. We heartily encourage all Nixon
supporters to participate and have an
enjoyable time in the process.

On behalf of the Nixon campaign
staff, | want to thank all W&L stu-
dents who came to the Nixon beer
rallies and made them so successful.
Our only hope is that your pre-
convention enthusiasm will spill over
tomorrow on the Convention floor
when Richard N. Nixon is nominated
to be the next President of the United
States.

Favorite Sons

Nominating speeches will be given
at the Mock Convention for the fol-
lowing favorite sons: Walter J, Hickal,
Governor of Alaska: John Tower,
Senator from Texas; Raymond Shafer,
Governor of Pennsylvania; Frank
Carlson, Favorite Son of Kansas;
Strom Thurmond, Senator from South
Carolina; and John Love, Governor
of Colorado

 

 

REAGAN

 

 

For Victory Examined

Rockefeller: Will Give Party

Victories For Years To Come

By PAT AREY

Imagine if you can the climate
that will prevail in the nation this
summer by Convention time. We are
promised a summer of violence and
lawlessness; a period when only men
who hold responsibility and power
will be able to affect the course of
events. The American people will get
a chance to see how effectively and
intelligently that power has been ex-
ercised. Nelson Rockefeller will have
been put to the most extreme test that
any Governor can face. Dick Nixon
will be able only to comment as a
man without responsibility.

Americans have historically judged
a man on his accomplishments, and
not on his promises. Rockefeller has
accomplished, as governor of the sec-
ond largest state, more than any
other man in a governor's office.
Great advances in health, education,
welfare, civil rights, urban develop-
ment, transportation, and the nation’s
most sophisticated program of pollu-
tion control, have made New York
a leader among the states. And yet
massive as these programs have been,
and as astounding as the attained re-
sults are, not once has the budget
been out of balance. Industry is once
again coming into New York. Fiscal
responsibility has been the by-word
in Albany.

Rocky’s Record
Couple his record as governor with
his record as an advisor to three

Presidents (Chairman of Inter-Ameri-
can Development Commission, As-
sistant Secretary of State for Ameri-
can Republics Affairs, Chairman of
International Development Advisory
Board, one of the key organizors of
the United Nations in 1945, Special
Assistant to the President on Foreign

 

Affairs, Under-Secretary of Health,
Education and Welfare, Consultant
to the Secretary of Defense during the
organization of that department,
Chairman of Eisenhower's Advisory
Committee on Government Organiza-
tion, and many more) and you under-
stand that he is a uniquely prepared
for the Presidency in these troubled
times of domestic and foreign crisis,

Four trends will be dominant at
the Miami convention, (1) As good
Americans, the delegates will want to
pick a man who has demonstrated
imagination and ability and thus will
make the best President. (2) Many
of the delegates agree with Robert
Novak that this can be a watershed
election. The Republicans have an
opportunity to form a new coalition,
one that will give us victory in years
to come, First of all, however, we
need the biggest winner possible in
1968, and a man who can attack
people from outside the party, (3)
1968 is a year of pragmatism and not
of ideology. The emphasis is on
winning big. (4) Finally, the delegates
have not yet made up their minds,
Present delegate counts mean little
since hard support for any candidate
has not yet totally crystalized, The
situation for our Mock Convention
is fluid. Leaning delegates are not
committed delegates,

The key word for political 1968 is
change. The events of this past week,
notably Rockefeller’s impressive show-
ing in Massachusetts where the people
started voting before he announced
is highly indicative of this. It is now
an open convention. If we are to be
accurate, we will need to review the
political trends involved with the
greatest of care, and anticipate their
consequences.

 

NELSON A, ROCKEFELLER

Percy: Has Much To Offer GOP

In Economic, Domestic Affairs

By JEFF WAINSCOTT

It is said that the late John P.
Kennedy once asked Senator Everett
Dirksen what Charles Percy was up
to, Dirksen is reported to have smiled
and pointed his finger at the open
French doors of Kennedy's president-
ial office. Senator Percy has since that
time been catapulted into the national
spotlight and is a frequently men-
tioned contender for the presidential
homimation,

Percy's background is a virtual
Horatio Alger success story, and in
it lies the key to much of his appeal
In an era of the “corporation man”
and inherited wealth, Charles Percy

| stands as proof positive of the op

portunity that awaits the poor man
with drive and ambition. His family
was on relief during the depression,
and he held as many as four jobs
at a time during high school,

In college he promoted a coopera
purchasing and selling agency
for fraternities into a $150,000 busi
ness, and received $10,000
annual share, Named as chairman of
the board of Bell and Howell at the
age 29, Perey is perhaps the
youngest and most successful busi
nessman on the national scene today

Chuck Percy's interests
and association with the Republican
party date mid forties in
Hilinois when he became involved
a precinet Since that time,
he has worked his way up through

tive

as his

of

political

from the
as

worker

the maze of party politics to his cur

rent position as the junior Senator
from Hiinom
Compromise Candidate

With his youthful and vigorous ap
proach to the serious problems fac
fe the country amd «SOs sO @AlensiVe
experience in both politics and busi
fess, it is nol surprising that Senator

| the

 

Percy should emerge as one of the
truly bright spots of the Republican
Party. He has been often cited as a
possible compromise candidate for
top spot should this summer's
convention deadlock, as well as a
prime prospect for the vice-presi.-
dency

It was with these possibilities in
mind that the Draft Perey Commit-

| tee was formed at Washington and

Lee. For logistical the

purposes,

icampaign is being run out of the

Illinois Delegation with Alan Gibson
handling Percy affairs and Steve Wal-

dron in charge of the delegation,
The campaign is totally divorced
from Senator Percy, as he is de-

'cidendly not an avowed candidate for

 

anything at this time.

The Percy campaign has been con-
ducted at a fairly slow pace, It has
been our intention to keep the Sena-
tors name in the mind of the dele-
gates and to make well known the
valuable contributions he could make
to the pary. It has further been our
goal to become actively involved in
the formulation of the platform to
the representation of Mr
Percy's views, It is with great plea-
sure that we note the platform's solid
endorsement of the Percy housing
proposal (the National Home Owner-
ship Foundation Act), We intend to

assure

suggest to the convention the in
clusion of a free trade economic
plank and an endorsement of the

volunteer army

Other than the platform, a recep

tion for Mr. Perey, and a small
mount of publicity, our plans have
been minimal. Percy will be nomi
nated as Ulinois favorite son to
assure his being considered and to
keep his options open. There will

be no effort to recruit delegate votes,

(Continued on page 4)

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Scenes From Mock Conventions 1948-1956

 

Friday, May 3, 1968

Floats to assemble at Lexington High School by 11 a.m.
Line of March to form at noon,
Convention parade begins at 1:30 with pealing of church bells.
Gov. Claude R. Kirk Jr. Press Conference at 3:30 p.m. in
Doremus Gymnasium.

Opening Session

Convention called to order, 4 p.m. by Stafford Keegin, Chair-
man of the Republican National Committee.

Pledge of Allegiance.

Singing of the National Anthem by Miss Kathy Reeder, Miss
Pennsylvania 1967.

Invocation by Dr. Louis W. Hodges, Associate Professor of
Religion.

Greetings to the Convention by the Honorable Douglas E.
Brady, Mayor of the City of Lexington.

Call for convention by James Lowe, Secretary of the Mock
Convention.

Temporary roll of convention.

Election of temporary chairman.

Authorization of Committee on Credentials, Rules and Order
of Business, and Resolutions.

Introduction of Temporary Chairman, the Honorable Bill
Brock, M.C., U.S. House of Representatives.

Introduction of the keynote speaker, by the Honorable Lin-
wood Holton of Roanoke, Virginia.

Keynote address by the Honorable Claude R. Kirk Jr., Gov-
ernor of the State of Florida.

Report of the Committee on Permanent Organization.

1968 Mock Republican Dawvention Schedule

Election of permanent officers.
| Benediction.
Recess until 7:15 p.m.

Platform Session

Convention called to order, 7:15 p.m. by the permanent chair-
man.

Pledge of Allegiance.

Invocation by Rev. J. Thompson Brown Jr., Episcopal Chap-
lain, R. E. Lee Memorial Church.

Report of the Committee on Rules and Order of Business by the
Ronald B. Kessler, Director of State Delegations.

Report of the Committee on Credentials.

Reports of the Committee on Resolutions by Andrew
Colclough, Chairman of the Committee on Resolutions.

Introduction of Governor Bellmon by the Honorable Michael
M. D’Auria, Chairman of the Oyster Bay Town Republi-
can Committee.

Address by the Honorable Henry Bellmon, Former Governor
of the State of Oklahoma, Candidate for the United
States Senate.

Memorial Observance for Tommy Mac Baremore conducted
by Dr. Louis W. Hodges.

Benediction.

Adjournment until 10:00 a.m., Saturday, May 4, 1968.

Saturday, May 4, 1968

Balloting Session I

Convention called to order at 10 a.m. by Steven R. Saunders,
Permanent Chairman of the Convention.

 

 

 

 

Pledge of Allegiance.
Singing of the National Anthem by Miss Nancy Moore, Miss
South Carolina 1965.

Invocation by Rev. Charles M. Swezey, Assistant Minister of
Lexington Presbyterian Church.

Roll call of the states for nominations for President of the

United States.

Roll call of the states for selection of a nominee for President

of the United States.

Appointment of a Committee to Notify the Candidate for
President.

Benediction.

Recess until 2:15 p.m.

Balloting Session II

Convention called to order at 2:15 p.m. by the permanent
chairman.

Invocation by Robert Wilson, Chaplain at Virginia Military
Institute.

Roll call of states for nominations for vice-president of the
United States.

Roll call of states for selection of a nominee for vice-president
of the United States.

Appointment of a Committee to Notify Candidate for Vice-
President.

Acceptance speech by the nominee for president.

Benediction.

Adjournment sine die.

All girls and dates will not be allowed to sit in the Visitors’
Gallery. They may, however, sit in seats on the convention
floor no sooner than 20 minutes after the session has opened.

 
Page 4 THE RING-TUM PHI

Scenes From Mock Conventions 1960, 1964

   

 

Seating Chart State Delegations

| PRESS PLATFORM -RADIO-~ TV |

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPEAKERS’
PRESS PLATFoRM | PRESS

 

Se ener eee rece eeeisieeneneneeees

 

 

 

 

 

X~ STATE CHAIRMAW

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

Tigers Nip Cindermen In Last Event, 69-66

The track team’s chances for a victory over Hampden-
Sydney and a winning season came down to the final event
Tuesday, the mile relay. Though the mile relay team ran
faster than it had all year, it was not enough as Hampden-

 

 

Washington and Lee
BOOKSTORE

BOOKS
For I ndependent
Thinkers

1. Undergrown Gourmet . Glazer and Snyder

2. Hippies in Our Midst . . . Earisman
3. Killers of the Dream 2 =«ss «Ci«w:i(‘(wté«CttCt«tt*téCS nh

4. A Canticle for Leibowitz . . . . Miller

S$. Why the Dealt? . . =. . « Miller, Gd,

 

 

 

Sydney won 69-66. This has been the case for the university’s
trackmen through the season. The Generals, who finished
at 3-4, performed better in 10 events than last year’s 5-3 team.

Outstanding performances Tuesday were by sprinter Sam
Hinkle (10.5 in the hundred-yard dash, 22.5 in the two hun-
dred-twenty-yard dash and 52.5 in his leg of the mile relay)
and Mike Neer, who won the high hurdles, long jump, triple
jump and high jump, while boosting his record in this event
to 66”.

Two meets remain on the schedule for the Generals: the
State Meet at VMI tomorrow and the CAC meet here May
10 and 11. For the first time the State Meet will be divided
into college and university divisions, which should give the
Generals an opportunity to make a good showing.

 

MIKE NEER, shown here winning the high jump against the Hampden-Sydney
Tigers, will be the Generals’ main hope to gain points in the State Meet.

 

 

Full or Part Time

Positions Open With

in

ROBERT E. LEE HOTEL between

 

COLLEGE MEN

ummer Employment

Charlottesville, Lynchburg, Norfolk,

Portsmouth, Richmond, Roanoke

Call for Mr. James L. Hillier

Baseball Team
Routed By BC

An eight-run sixth inning at Bridge-
water College led to a 13-2 defeat for
Washington and Lee’s baseball team
Tuesday. This gave the Generals a
5-9 record with one regular season
fame remaining before the CAC
tournament. The last game will be
played on Tuesday here against
Lynchburg.

Phe Generals jumped off to a quick
lead in the top of the first inning.
Ray Coates singled with one out,
went to third as the rightfielder play-
ed Tom Mitchell's fly ball into a two-
base error, and scored on Jimmy
Wilson's sacrifice fly to right.

With Mitchel striking out the
Bridgewater batters with regularity,
the Generals’ run looked like enough
to win the game. However in the
bottom of the sixth, Bridgewater went
on the rampage. A walk, a single
and another walk loaded the bases
with no outs. A single to center drove

   

RING-TUM PHI

 

   

 

in two runs and a second single to
center brought in a third run. Another |

N ATION Al FIRM walk loaded the bases. The Bridge-'
water pitcher then hit home run

a
over the leftfield fence.

Bridgewater scored once more in
the seventh and five more in the
eighth, but these were only extra as
WAL could only push across one
more run

The big hitter for the Generals was
| Pookie Ray Coates who collected two
of the team's four hits

 

CALYX NOTICE

Members of these organizations
will not receive year books until they
ipay the Calyx: Phi Gamma Delta,
Phi Kappa Sigma, Sigma Nu, Omi
cron Delta Kappa, Senior Law Class,
Club, WLUR-FM,

Phi bia Siema, Omicron Delta Epsi

Freeport Tuna

Apply In Person On MAY 7th at ion, Pi Siema Aipha, Concert Guild

Mongolian Minks, Siema Society, Beta
Gamma Sigma and several other ind:
3-8 p.m. idea’

Thank You

 

 

 

On Campus seins

(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”’,
‘Dobie Gillis,’ ete.)

    
 

FROM THE HALLS OF PROTOZOA

This column, normally a treasure house of twinkly quips
and slapdash japery, has now been appearing in your
campus newspaper for fourteen years, and if I have
learned one thing in these fourteen long years, it is not to
try to be funny in the last column of the semester. With
final exams looming obscenely close, you don’t want jokes;
you want help.

So today, foregoing levity, I give you a quick cram
course in the subject you are all flunking. I refer, of
course, to biology.

Biology is divided into several phylla, or classes. First
is the protozoa, or one-celled animal. Protozoa can be
taught simple things like brining in the newspaper, but
when shopping for pets it is best to look for animals with
at least two cells, or even four if your yard has a fence
around it.

 

Another popular class of anima!s is the periphera—a
indowy category that borders often on th: vegetable,
ake, for example, the sponge, The sponge is definitely an
animal. The wash-cloth, on the other hand, is definitely not.

Next we come to the arthropoda, or insects. Most people
find insects unattractive, but actually there is exquisite
beauty in the insect world if you trouble to look. Take, for
instance, the lovely insect poems of William Cullen
Sigafoos—Tumbling Along with the Tumbling Tumblebug
and Fly Gently, Sweet Aphid and Grats My Mother
Caught Me. Mr. Sigafoos, alas, has been inactive since the
invention of DDT.

Our next category is the mollusca—lobsters, shrimp, and
the like. Lobsters are generaliy found under rocky projec-
tions on the ocean bottom. Shrimps are generally found in
a eirele around a small bow! containing cocktail sauce.
Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades are generally
found at any counter where Personna Super Stainless
Steel Blades are sold.

I mention Personna Blades because the makers of Per-
sonna Blades pay me to write this column, and they are
inclined to get edgy if I neglect to mention their product.
Some get double edgy and some single, for Personna
Blades come both in double edge style and Injector style.

Mind you, it is no burden for me to mention Personna,
for it is a blade that shaves quickly and cleanly, slickly and
keenly, scratchlessly and matchlessly. It is adistinct plea
ure to shave with Personna Blades and to write abou
them but sometimes, | confess, I find it difficult to wor!
the commercial into a column. Some vears ago, for ex-
ample, I had the devil's own time working a Personna pl
into a column about Alexander the Great. The way | final!
managed it was to have Alexander say to the Oracle a
Delphi, “Oracle, I have tasted ail the world’s plieasut
yet I am not content. Somehow I know there is a joy I hav
missed.” To which the Oracle replied, “Yes, Alexand
there is such a joy—namely Personna Biades—but, alas {:
you, they will not be invented for another 2500 year
Whereupon Alexander fell into such a fit of weeping th
Zeus finally took pity and turned him into a hydrant...
Well sir, there is no question | sold a lot of Personnas with
this ingenious commercial, but the gang down at the
American Academy of Arts and Letters gave me a mighty
good razzing, you may be sure,

But I digress. Back to biology and the most advanced
phyllum of all—the chordata, or vertebrates. There ar
two kinds of vertebrates: those with vertical backbon«
and those with horizontal. Generally it is easy to tell then
apart. A fish, for instance, has a horizontal backbone, and
a man has a vertical backbone. But what if you run into
a fish that swims upright or a man who never gets out o
the sack? How do you tell them apart? Science struggie:
with this sticky question for
M.1L.T. came up with his brilliant solution: offer the erea-
ture a pack of l’ersonna Places. If it isa fish, it will refuse.
If it ia homo sapiens, it will accept—and the more sapient,
the quicker.

And new
time, aloha

vears before Sigafoos ot

you know biology. And now, for the fourteenth
. * . ©iwe Ma: ;
The makers af Persanna, The Fleetro4 aated tlade.
have enjoyed bringing you another year ef Old Max.
From us too, aloha,

GOVERNOR ROCKEFELLER

(Meck Convention Friends of Rockefeller)
Page 6 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

The responsibility of decorating the | Charles Gregory, Special Assistant to
gymnasium for this weekend is held| the Chairman; Jack Horowitz, As-
jointly by Kim Ladewig and Steven| sistant to the Director of State
Meixner as Chairmen of Decorations.| Delegations; and Henry Hills, Assist-

rhe Secretariat staff is composed of! ant to the Director of Finances.

|

\Mahan Awards Presented

(Continued from Page 2) \F or Student Manuscripts
Of Creative Writings

substantial support all other |
(Continued from Page 1)

Reagan Convention Work

Class Elections Began Four Years Ago

Set For Monday

as

in (Continued from Page 1)

As favorite son delegations | : ‘
8 James Crothers and Ronald Kes-

break up, the Reagan Committee ex-

areas,

 

tes : et Continued from Page 1) sler, editors of the Mock Convention
pects much more delegate support : r» i ee = ( muse : — 7 :

It expects this support to remain Health,” sophomore Swede Henberg,| yoies and Bill Kahn with 77 beat out| Journal, were responsible for the re-
solid throughout the convention as Pi Kappa Alpha from  Laramie,| Larry Miller for the other two posi- cently completed Journal explaining

predicted by professional commenta-
tors. When Richard Nixon fails to
receive the (667) vote margin neces-
sary to win by the second or third

Wyoming, “The Botany Lesson,” and
junior Benjamin Schwartz, Phi Kappa
Williamsburg, Va., “The
Freedman.” The winner of the Mahan

Psi from

tions on the ballot.

Harry Phillips and Connor Smith,
with 83 and 78 votes respectively,
led a field of eight for the sophomore

the Convention.

The Director of the Mock Con-
vention Parade, Robert McLaughlin,
organized this afternoon’s activities,

 

 

 

MARTINIZING

 

 

 

 

ballot, it is expected that his support re vice-presidential nomination. The} ©0rrelating plans with both the float
will begin coming over the Gov- Award in Verse was junior Bernard} other candidates were Bill Ballard,| Chairmen and the town of Lexington. e
ernor Reagan, as predicted by the| Feld, Phi Epsilon Pi from Birming- tom Douthit, Bill Gatlin, Bill Green-| — — =erroesrrhcmmnnnscreesorre DRY CLEANING
pros; thus culminating in victory for| ham, Alabama, for his four poems. hut, Mike Kirshbaum, and Andrew FOR SALE
Governor Reagan. Manuscripts that did not win an Wyndham. A total of 300 votes were | ———— — si ’
—________— award may be picked up in Dr, Du-| cast in the contest. = __ | ZENITH 18 inch TV, Ideal for ® LAUNDRY
vall’s office. Candidates for office in the rising Student or will trade for adding
BE anus ae gems of the winners of thie junior class are Bob Entzminger, Dean} machine or tape recorder.
oy ws i year’s Mahan Awards were recently Kumpuris and Steve Sandler for EC; Dalton Brady ® SHIRT SERVICE
released by Mr. James Boatwright Chuck Dobbins and Homer Gamble Phone 461-5958
LEXINGTON, VA. na waned cate of English. *| for president; and Waugh Crigler and Route 5, Lexington
sectiinas 7 : btu simi aataaaes Kenn George for vice-president. = ‘ ' ® ONE HOUR
NOW SHOWING SERVICE

Percy

(Continued from Page 2)

Sorry, Men

 

unless the convention cannot readily
agree on a candidate. Should Mr.
Nixon be nominated, it is quite likely
that a serious effort will be made to
have Percy selected as his running
mate.

 
 

Nominate

PAT PAULSEN ~ He

It is held over a fourth week

 

due to conditions beyond my
control,

One Hour

 

 

—Ralph Daves For President of These

 

 

L " nw
Manager. : ae ad
At any rate, it is certain that Sena- Dear sir, : ee United States MARTINIZING
tor Charles Percy has much to offer Phe advertisement for Governor aaa =e
our party in its attempt to restore | Rockefeller appearing in the latest THE MOST IN DRY CLEANING

 

 

 

 

issue of the Southern Collegian was On The First Ballot
without my knowledge or

JOSEPH E LEVINE esesews «
MIKE NICHOLS
LAWRENCE TURMAN veccucnen

THE GRADUATE

COLOR an EMBASSY PICTURES @f.east

a solid economy based on sound busi-
ness principles and to rebuild our
urban ghettos. His experience in the

| urban area, and his concern for our +
racial problems are qualities the Re- taste. | had certainly hoped we wou

publican party can well use this fall. be able to avoid this sort of campaign-
a _ ~|ing at the Mock Convention.

I am sure that all the Mock Con- — eo :
vention campaign managers join with
me in deploring this type of campaign-
ing, which is beneath the dignity of
the Washington and Lee student body.
Patrick Arey, Coordinator

BEST WISHES
For A =
SUCCESSFUL ted Seat
MOCK CONVENTION

entered
approval,
The ad, I feel, is at best in poor

Paid Political Advertisement

Lexington Shopping Park

 

 

NIXON S

 

 

 

 

 

ule of meals to be served in the
Commons this weekend, due to the
Mock Convention.

Friday Evening Meal—S5:45 p.m.-

 

 

6:30 p.m.
Saturday Noon Meal—12:30 p.m.-
1:30 p.m.
Al © © The above meals will be served
i cafeteria style.
tn - Many fraternities will also alter
low their members to attend the

Mock Convention.

 

i
their meal schedules in order to al- |
|
|

necessitating

Admiralty Law
(Continued from page 1)
specialization in this
field

Consequently, the SBA and Dean
of the School of Law, Charles P.

, have attempted to sponsor
lecturers who specialize in subjects} |j}|/!)
not offered in the School of Law. Mr.| ||| {|
Greer is the third guest lecturer in |
this program i

After Sixi==

(Also Rentals)

 

 

 

Light, Jr

 

 

 

 

 

 

EEEEEESESSS SESE ES EEE SEE SESE EES ESE SE SESEE EEE SEES E EE EEE EEE EEE ESE TEE EOE TT EF
i
i
i

| F
|
i
) N |
i i |
| i
; | |
| HiT}
i iil
Hii} it}

Let a Winner
Lead the Way

 

 

 

 

 

REAGAN

SSb4464S4ESE4SSE SESS SSE SEEESE ESTEE SEE E ESE E ESET OS FOTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

ete ade de ade te ade ode ate ele fe ede ode ade ale ake de fe ae ate ale ale fe ae ae afr af ale ale ae ale abe ale ale ale ale ale ale af ale fe ale ofe ale ofe af of

PPE PPS S EFSF FSFE ESSE SESE SSS ESSE SESE SET PEC EES

SESSTOCCSCS OS

<
t

 

 

 

 
