 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WEEKEND WEATHER

Tonight: light showers, low around 30.
Tomorrow: showers, high around 40.
Sunday: clearing and cooler,

Volume LXVII

Go To Classes
Wednesday Or
Be...

The Thanksgiving Holidays begin
on Wednesday, November 22, at 1:00
p.m. Classes resume on Monday,
November 27, at 8:25 a.m.

Absences before and after holidays
are limited to:

(1) Students on the Dean's List and

semester and mid-semester honor rolls. |

(2) Seniors in their last semester, who

are applicants for degrees, if they do

not need more than fifteen semester
hours and thirty grade points to be
graduated, and if they have a cumula-
tive grade-point ratio of at least 2.00
and a grade-point ratio of at least
2.00 on the work of the preceding
semester.

Important: Any student not in the
above categories who, without valid
excuse, absents himself from his
classes or laboratory periods on the
last day of his classes preceding or
the first day of his classes following
the Thanksgiving or Christmas holi-
days or spring vacation thereby severs
his connection with The University.
Reinstatement may be made only on
conditions to be determined by the
Absence Committee.

Neo’s Now Closed:
Reopening Of Cl
Planned In Future

Neo’s House of Beef served its last
meals last week before closing up
and wailing to be replaced by the
new Holiday Inn Motel which is
scheduled to be built there in the
near future.

Peter Neofotis, owner and opera-
tor of Neo’s said that he will reopen
the College Inn on Main Street in
Lexington and that it will have two
dining rooms and be redecorated.

Neofotis said that he hopes the
College Inn will be open by the first
of next month.

Three PhiEps
Walk To R-M

 

Three Washington and Lee stu-
dents are making a road trip to
Randolph-Macon—on foot.

Clayton Spann, Rich Juterbock, and
Bruce McQueen, all Phi Eps, set off
this morning alt approximately 3 a.m.
on the 45-mile trek to Lynchburg,
where they are exepeceted to arrive
and pick up their dates at around
7 p.m. tonight,

A number of well-wishers were on)
hand for their departure

The three hikers, who are following |
the old C&O towpath along the river, |
were not immediately available for |
comment, but a spokesman for WLUR |
radio said this morning that efforts)
will be made to obtain a radio in-|
terview in time for this evening's of
Saturday's broadcasts

WEEKLY C

 

| Speaker

Che King-tum Ph

 

Dr. Delos Hughes (left) Semen graduate schools during a panel held by the
Commerce School Tuesday night. Other professors who participated were
~ * Johnson, Mr. John M. Gunn, and Mr, Andrew McThenia.

Dr. I

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 17, 1967

 

Wesley Foundation Provides
Many Services For Students

Coordinated and advised by the
Methodist Church and the University

Federation of Christian Concern
(UFOCC), the Wesley Foundation
offers to W&L and VMI students

both mental and physical recreation.

This organization functions _ pri-
marly with the purpose of present-
ing a popular Sunday night program
on political, social, and economic
concern of the present, removing it-
self from the religious implications
of the church.

One such program was a five-week
symposium, held earlier this semester,
on the war in Vietnam. Discussions
on the draft, conscienious objectors
an dthe war itself were held and sup-
plemented by speakers from the Lex-
ington Local Draft Board, the Lexing-
ton Committee on Vietnam, and Mr.
John H. Fielder, instructor in philo-
sophy and against the war in Vietnam,

Next semester, during February
and the first half of March, another
program will be presented by the
Foundation, this one concerning racial
prejudice. Mr. Bud Coiner, a local
minister, is setting up this symposium

now and plans to center it around
audio-visual aids. Movies are being|~~
scheduled and speakers are being

arranged to complement the focus of
the discussion. Highlighting the meet-

Capt. Kauffman Discusses

Vietnam With Lambda Chi

Capt. Robert Kauffman, assistant
professor of military science, spoke
last night to Lambda Chi Alpha fra-

ternity as part of the fraternity’s

| weekly discussion groups.

Kauffman was the first
in a two-part discussion on
“Civil Action in Vietnam.” His talk,
which favored civil action, was sup
plemented by slides

After the Thanksgiving holidays, the
other side of the topic will be reveal
ed by a speaker yel to be named

ings will be representatives from Lex
ington Negro groups, Black Power

ALENDAR |

Capt.

(Today, November 17, through Thursday, November 30)
TODAY (November 17, 1967)

& p.m.—Concert Guild presents Richmond Little Symphony. Lee Chapel
& p.m.—Basketball scrimmage against Fairmont State. Doremus Gymnasium
TOMORROW (Saturday, November 18, 1967)

2 p.m.—HBasketball scrimmage against Fairmont State. Doremus Gymnasium

2:25 p.m.—WLUR-FM Broadcast of WAL football at Washington Univer
sity, St. Louis, Mo. Pregame show at | p.m

SUNDAY (November 19, 1967)

6:20 p.m.—The University Federation of Christian Concern presents Dt
James Leyburn, who will speak on “The Puture of Christianity
Followed by discussion. Supper at $:30 p.m. Wesley House

WEDNESDAY (November 22, 1967)

1 p.m.—Thanksgiving Holidays begin

MONDAY (November 27, 1967)
&:25 p.m.—C lasses resume
TUESDAY, (November 28, 1967)

5 pm Department of History presents Andrew Andrew Gyorgy, Professor
of International Affairs at George Washington University, who!
will speak on “Recent Developments in Soviet Foreign Policy
duPont Auditorium

WEDNESDAY (November 29, 1967)

Rom Student Concert Society Program presents Martha Anne Verbit

Pianist. Lee Chapel
THURSDAY (November 40, 1967)
np.—IFC Paculy Coffe Lvans Dining Hall

 

advocates from Virginia Union Uni-
versity in Richmond, and Dr. Louis
W. Hodges, who will lecture on “The
Nature of Prejudice.”

Sunday night's program will pre- |
sent Dr. James Leyburn, who will |
speak on “The Future of Christianity.
rhis program, as do all of the others,
will begin with supper at 5:30 p.m.

Along with these activities the)
Wesley Foundation provides other |
relaxing features for students at the
neighboring schools. It annually spon-
sors a picnic for its participants and
also sets up joint programs with the
area girls’ schools. Facilities include
TV, a ping pong table, a pool table,
a library, and a record player at its
headquarters on Lee Avenue. In addi-
tion, several students live in the head-
quarters.

Mr. George McFarland, Methodist
minister to students at Southern
Seminary, V.M.L, and W&L, aids
UFOCC in planning and organizing
the Wesley Foundation. UFOCC is
composed of interested students and
faculty, who sponsor numerous activi
ties a religious | concern.

 

W&L Mises
Whittle Dies At 76

An alumnus of WAL Law School
and a former member of its Board of
Trustees died last Friday at 76

Kennon C. Whittle, a former justice
of the Virginia Supreme Court and
the trial judge in the “Martinsville
seven” case, was appointed to the
high court in March, 1951

While he was serving on the 7th
Judicial Circuit bench, he drew na
tional attention by presiding over the |
trial of Negro men
with rape of a white woman in Janu
ary 1949, Despite numerous appeals,
all were convicted, sentenced to death
and electrocuted. Higher courts de
clured they could find no reversible
on the part of Whittle
or his court

He retired from the bench to his
home in Martinsville in February 1968
and from his the WAI
Hoard of hav
ing verved for

WAL awarded him
LLD 1954, fifty
received his law degree

He was also a director of Martin
ville radio station WMVA, the Amer
can Furniture Co., the First National
Bank of Martinsville and Henry
County and a member of Richmond's
Commonwealth Club

Whittle Southside
last Supreme Court
former Gov, Albertis
sworn in last month

seven charged

error Justice

position on
1964

years

 

Trustees in after
1?

honorary

he

an

n years atte

V ieinia
until

was
pUsiice

Harrison Wis

 

Moliere’s “The

School for

a. Museum to$ Stage French Comedy

I hye

the 4

School for Wives

enteenth-centurs

+ comedy
by
playwright Moliere
the al

French
presented
p.m. Monday
School

will be
RIS
His h

to public

in the Lexington nid

i torn

ticket
Washington

Although regular
for $3.00
V.M.1
it a reduced rat
ell for $1.50 at
inal ut \ M1 Lejeune

lhe p '
theater Al SO

on
Lee

them

if¢
ind
students may buy

Student tickets will
WAL Bookstore
Hall

Ry nied b
of Virg

sule

ind

the

ite

ety n nial

FRIDAY
Edition

LIBRARY OF

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA,

Number 17

Committee Approves Rental
Of New Advanced Computer

W&L Computer Center has approved
the rental of an 1130 computer, ac-
cording to Lee Dudley of the uni-

versity’ Ss computer center.
The 1130 is a_ third generation
computer, and is more sophisticated

than the 1620 computer,
use by the university.

Saunders Outs
Commuttee Post

Steve Saunders resigned Thursday
as chairman of the Assimilation Com-
mittee, after serving two years in
that position.

currently in

He gave as his reasons the pres-
sure of academic work combined
with his obligations as chairman of
the Mock Convention.

Saunders was first appointed to the
committee in May 1965 and was
named chairman one year later. As
chairman, he revived “The Student
Handbook,” which he edited both
years, and established “Organization
Week” for freshmen.

Explained Saunders,
it would be fair to continue as chair-
man when | knew that the amount
of time I would be able to devote to
the committee this spring would be
severely limited by the Mock Con-

vention. -

 

Cebit To Talk.

At YR Meeting
Dr. Milton Colvin, professor of
political science, will address more

than 200 college students from West-
ern Virginia this weekend when the
Shenandoah Valley Conference meets
in Natural Bridge.

Dr, Colvin will be speaking in de-
fense of American policy in Vietnam
to the symposium sponsored by the
Virginia College Young Republican
Federation.

‘Troubs Read ‘Tumult’

 

 

More than 50 WAL Y oung Repub- |

licams are expected to attend.
will constitute the largest delegation
at the conference

The featured speaker of the con
ference will be Donald E. “Buz”
Lukens, a Republican congressman
from Ohio. He will speak at a ban
quel Saturday night.

as »*

a

et |

battalion,
Parlier this week,
along with Lt. Col, Steve Shepherd, toured the V.M.1. campus and barracks. |

WAL's ROTE

weapons recenily.

New

Shepherd, liewtenant colonel; Rolly

W ives”

Museum of |
il cust intf
o Lexane
Miseun
public

ni prote fi
nit ihc hi

Vir

proc
of ite
rn
Mondu
mipanied By
Monday
high
ind

fi a part
ttt i
if
Kk

bein

Wifliet

OwWwiflf nieni

Iree mat

| ue

a

ne ind
day
den n
( oun

The play being | nted

perform ifice

ifiernoons for school

aingion Rockbride

This |

W@L Show Delayed

I didn’t think |

Before the can be Lee with

new computer a central processor in
rented, approval must be made by| Bethesda, Md.
the university Board of Trustees. The tie-in, if adopted, would be

Frank Connally, a systems analyst
from General Electric, will be on the
W&L campus November 29 to dem-
onstrate the possibilities of a tie-in
of the computer | at t Washington and
= ?

on a shared time basis.

A tie-in with a larger processor
would, according to Dudley, allow
use of the computer for more compli-
cated problems in business simulation,
advanced physics, or in the humani-
ties,

The link with the large General
Electric processor in Bethesda will be
made by telephone lines.

Another possibility for a tie-in is
with a central processor under con-
struction at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute in Blacksburg.

In acquiring the new 1130 comput-
er, the center will have to reprogram
all its work for the more sophisticated
system.

 

Political Science Tests

Students who are now enrolled
in, or have completed, Political
Science 101, may take a two-hour
examination on American govern-
ment on Monday, December 4, at
7 pm. Those who pass may take
the courses for which Political
Science 102 is a prerequisite. See
Dr. Milton Colvin for further in-

formation. Presently the university computer

is used for scheduling of students and
grade reports. Other uses include data
processing courses, and physics and
chemistry labs.

 

 

 

At Mary Baldwin;

rhe business statistics course, Com-
j merce 201, will also make use of the
computer for the first time this year.

he debut of Mary Baldwin girls st
in Wal 8 Troubadour Theatre pro-
ductions has been postponed

until | |
after the Christmas holidays. 1]
Because of a conflict with the Rich-|
mond Litthe Symphony Concert, the
reading of “Tumult,” a new play,
will not take place here tonight as
scheduled. However, it was performed
Thursday night at Baldwin.
“Tumult,” the story of a Roman
court martial, a new script and
had never been done before, accord-

is

ing to Mr. Lee Kahn, instructor in
fine arts.

He said that the reading will in-
clude four Mary Baldwin girls and

will be directed by Mr.
lins, who manages the
matic productions
Several members of the cast for
the reading offered enthusiastic com-
ments both about this particular pro-

Fletcher Col-
Baldwin dra-

 

} duction and about the prospects of
siaging future productions in con- GYORGY
junction with the girls’ school in the
vicinity .
The cast includes Laurence Me Anderw Gyorgy Will Speak
Connell, who held the lead in “The|Of Recent Developments
| Empire Builders.” the Troub’s pre

i vious production. Other members are

’ Maloney

| ROTC Weapons Issued

 

4 +
including a number of freshmen,

 

several members of the battalion staff,

officers holding the rank of maior or above

ii- | 3
ii

In Soviet Foreign Policy
Ken
Mike

Fink,
Dunn,

Mike
Mike

John
Jim

Freeman,

andre we >
Nation and Andrew Gyorgy, professor of politi

cal science at Boston University, will
discuss “Recent Developments in So-
viet Foreign Policy” on Tuesday.
November 28, at 8 p.m. in duPont
Auditorium.

Gyorgy’s qualifications include be
ing a Lecturer for the National War
College and serving as a professor of
International Affairs for the Institute
for Sino-Soviet Studies at George
| Washington University
} As an author, Gyorgy has publish
j ed seven books including “Commu
; ism Perspective,” Ideologies in
| World Affairs,” “Eastern | uropean
Government Politics.” and “Issues in
World Communism

 

2

in

is under the aegis
Scholars Program of
Center Richmond,

Ciyorgy s lecture

of the
the

\

Visiting
University mn
emia

here on Tuesday
iit Mary Washington
of William and Mary
Sweet Briar
ind University of Virginia in a three

da

Greek T ragedy
At Sweet Briar

Besides sp hing
Giyore will ¥
College, College
Hampden-Sydney College

y

tour of Virginia colleges

began carrying

are ws follows: Steve

 

Jacobs, Edmund Hewe, and Phillip | \ classic Greek tragedy, The Tro
Thempsen, majer. } jan Women, will be presented as this
years first production by Paint and
| Patehe drama club at Sweet Briar
| Colleg on Friday md Saturday
| evenings, Nov. 17 and 18, The pub
ilic is invited to attend the perform
mmces al 8:30 p.m. in Babeock Aud
forium

Palit! Humillon imsiutiion of
nt i urt and favorie of | Puripik masterpiece first performed
lou AT\ Although had been tin the Sth niury HA heine

trained to i¢fal prot u ito h production
he gave up h mnbition thy { Ih line feminine rol will ty
it und spen i in plaved t Syl Wederath, of Cur
tor touring provincial Fran helo oO lowa Hiecuba, wile of Trojan
heineg hed perto helo the Ain Piram mi mother of Hector
kine nal Par Sherilvn Klaerner, Darien
This prod ) f Conn Andromache, Hector's wife
i ne pre f | : m ? th i Mary Cant ( vien, S. ( i
Virgin Miseum th r. Othe ( ral dauvehter of H itu and 4

i r hy , 7 phoph vw oa rT}
. i SI j Pie Sail
: Al p m Uy il i flu

i ye i | “a iH ital
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University's T'wice-Weekly Newspaper

Friday, November 17, 1967

An Aside To Tuesday

While we don’t like to disagree with our colleagues on the
Tuesday Edition, we have to take exception to some of the
opinions they presented in last Tuesday’s editorial, “An Ex-
cess of Stupidity.”

 

Granted, “the weekend’s series of homecoming-display-
burnings is one of the most irresponsible things anybody on
this campus has done in a long, long while.’ Granted, “‘it
showed an infantile disregard for the efforts of others.”
Granted, ‘we are glad nobody thinks highly at all of students
who find their kicks burning houses, not just displays.” We
will even agree that it was “An Excess of Stupidity.”

Unfortunately, there were also conclusions drawn in the
editorial which we can not agree with. Its basic assumption
seems to have been that a given fraternity is responsible for
the actions of every one of its members, however much it may
condemn those actions itself. Guilt apparently spreads to the
innocent by association, and the sins of the few are to be visited
upon the many. If we admit this principle, then hereafter we
may require fraternities to pay parking tickets, fine them for
overdue libray books, and put their entire memberships on
trial for honor violations.

Since the Tuesday edition made this assumption, of course,
it is not surprising to find them making a similar one, which is
that the fraternity system is responsible for the actions of every
fraternity member. “...We’re not glad of the inevitable
effect such senseless viciousness has on fraternities as a whole,”
says the editorial. That’s nice to know, but we disagree with
the assumption made in that statement. We do not think that
such an effect is or should be “inevitable.” And we do not
think that those in positions of responsibility will consider it
“inevitable.”

The fraternities in question cannot be made responsible for
what one or two of their members have done or said they would
do or are alleged to have done. The fraternity system can not
be made responsible for the actions of the members of any
particular fraternity. It is the kind of misconceptions which
appeared in Tuesday’s editorial, not the incidents this weekend,
which harm the fraternity system—and harm it unjustly.

No, Thanks

We were glad to hear that the EC, after successfully initiat-
ing action which led to the reform of the semester exam
schedule by the faculty earlier this month, has taken on the
problem of that old horror, mid-semester grades. Explaining
that “administrative C” to your parents has been justly likened
to serving up spinach to cannibals—their attitude is usually that
you've gotta be kidding. (“Er, Dad—on my report card there'll
be a C. It doesn’t mean anything. Honest.”’)

So we wouldn’t mind seeing the end of administrative
grades. And the proposal that a covering letter be sent out to
the parents explaining the nature and significance of mid-
semester grades would be an excellent innovation. We certainly
endorse both of these excellent proposals.

But we do have some misgivings about the idea of a mid-
semester exam schedule, and to judge from the vote on it in the
EC (5 for, 3 against) at least some of the EC members must
think so, too. The purpose of such a schedule would be to
spread mid-semester exams out over a two-week period, one
day being alloted to each block hour. In this way it would
be impossible for any student to be caught with four important
mid-semester exams in two days.

The idea has its merits. On the other hand, students who
have that many tests all at once (and they are very much in
the minority) can usually prevail upon professors to change
one or more of them to a better time. And the establishment
of a schedule would probably have the effect of encouraging
the giving of mid-semester tests—something we can certainly
do without. Besides that, the importance of tests seems to be
in direct proportion to how official they are: as was remarked
at the EC meeting, a mid-semester exam schedule would prob-
ably lead to a mid-semester “little exam period.’ No, thanks.
We don’t want it.

 

The Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tuesday and Friday during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450

Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia, under the act of March 3, 1879

GREGORY FE. PARKER
Business Manage!

MICHAEL R. DUNN
Editor-in-Chief

Neil Kessler

Ron Kessler

Jerry Perlman

Pat Arey

Boh Entzminger

Bernie Feid

Reed Hyrum, Herb Griffith, Bill Jacobs
Downs Little. Frank Rove
George Hemperley
Thunder Thornton

Mark Faverman

News Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor

Senior Writer
Assistant News Editor
Features Editor

Staff Reporters

Photography Editor
Sports Columnist
Cartoonist

BUSINESS STAFF
Joel Fulmer. Glenn Moore

Advertising Managers
Harry Hill, Gerry Weedom

Circulation Managers

Those old grey professors ain’t what they used to be...

By MIKE DUNN JAHAB GRAHAM, Instructor, c.

1805. When prankster students put
the saddle on his horse backwards,
“he mounted in all seriousness with
| his face toward the tail of the horse,
and for a time was at a loss to
/comprehend the peculiarity of the
situation,”

(“Because of Washington and
Lee’s emphasis upon undergraduate
education,” proclaims our cata-
logue on p. 35, “its faculty is es-
sentially a body of highly quali-
fied, highly-trained men whose first
interest and first responsibility is
teaching.” Hm. Everyone’s heard
about the great teachers and ad-
ministrators of W&L’s past, it seems
to us, but who ever hears any-
thing about the not-so-successful,
the losers? Fortunately, their stories
are preserved in the reference room
of McCormick Library, in a volume

JOHN (JOCKEY) ROBINSON,
Horse trader, whiskey manufacturer,
Trustee of the College (1819-1826).
Made his fortune bilking numerous
Revolutionary War veterans out of
| what they thought were useless pay
certificates. On the occasion of the
'laying of the cornerstone of Wash-
entitled “Historical Papers,” a col- ington Hall in 1824, he unexpectedly
lection of histories and memoirs | arrived with a 40-gallon barrel of 15-
published between 1890 and 1904, | year-old whiskey, which he broke
For example .. .) | open on the lawn for the delight and

 

J i \ oo
'

ON

James Coburn dines on an apple, et al. in a scene from “Waterhole No. 3,”
now playing at the State.

 

Coburn Stars In ‘Waterhole 3;
Western Spoof Now At State

By RON KESSLER

In the mid-1940's, the vogue in
motion pictures was gangster movies
in which the anti-hero, usually Jimmy
Cagney wound up very dead either
by electrocution or by having many
holes in various parts of his body.

3 is found by Coburn and the sheriff.
who arrests and is kidnapped by
Coburn several times. They eventu-
ally have a shoot-em-up with one of
the original gold-robbers at, of all
places, a Ponce-like establishment,
members of whom appear in the
photograph above. In the end, every-
body is happy, except the sheriff. his
daughter, the other gold robbers. the
army and come to think of it, every-
body save James Coburn.

Bumbling Sheriff

The movie tends to fluctuate inex-
plicably between serious satire and
the sublime, although when the mood
is finally established, the latter pre-
vails. The bumbling, mumbling, leer-

In the 1950's, the straight western
was most popular, many of which
were filmed three weeks,
and starred such masters of the screen
as William Boyd, Gene Autry, and
Roy Rogers and the Sons of the
Pioneers.

in two of

In the early ‘60's, James Bond, et

al. was prevalent, ad nauseum,

Western Spoof

Now, it appears we are entering
the period of the western spoof. Cat
Ballou was a tremendous hit, result-
ing in an academy award for Lee
Marvin. Waterhole No, 3, now play-
ing at the State Theater is somewhat
lacking the former, but still most
enjoyable.

James Coburn, playing an “Our|
Man Flint” goes west part is very)
much like James Coburn always is,
Le. a grinning, “hooray-for-me-the-
hell-with-you,” gun-toting, most lk-
able character, in spite of the fact
that he commits murder, rape, armed
robbery (a number of times), breach

closer to the stereotype western law-
man than any such clean-cut character
as Matt Dillon.

James Whitmore, playing the cav-
alry captain was evidently attempting
to depict the corn often used by such
characters as Rip Masters (a la Rin-
tin-tin).

The double ententes, now almost a
necessity for any movie to succeed,
were excellent, and will probably be
quoted behind the poolhalls for years
to come. In one situation, Coburn
has been arrested for rape, and at-
tempts to explicate the situation by

 

of promise, and various stages of pleading. “assault with a friendly
trespassing and malicious mischief weapon
The plot follows something to this Although Waterhole No. 3. will

probably be a box-office flop in every
city save Lexington, it is most attuned
to the tastes of the WAL student,
and what it is lacking in “skin,” it
makes up in lines.

effect: Coburn finds a map for stolen
gold and goes after it, locking the |
sheriff in jail and raping the sheriff's
daughter on the way. The gold, buried
at (would you believe) Waterhole No

Arthur Silver, Local Proprietor,
Discusses His Philosophy of Life

SKY LININGER , Were worth $10.00. If hed known
i he he would have taken them

i up to Chicago and sold them. “Prob

By
Says,
Arthur Silver operates a small men's

 

shop in the city he has lived in for) apiy would have been robbed,
forty vears, The spry and sassy pro though,” he adds
prictor of Silver's Shop neither looks
nor acis his 77 vears Styles in Vogue

Operating the store by himpsell Silver also pointed owl an early
hind ef tough, he admit but then issue of the Calyx, dated 1929. If
ihe added he really enjoved doing i.) you ask, hel! tell you all about past

 
  

   

Out to Lanch Fancy Dress Balis and the styles that
if vou go to see Mr. Silver and were in vogue in those days
| there's sign in the door sayine Silver has definite opinions on vari
OUT TO LUNCH. don't wait! Hes ous current topics. For example
been known to pui that sign in the On miniskirts \ man can see
window and then tike inp up to what hes gelling
Philadeiphia for a few day On sisters-in-law \ man came into
For any interested WAL students. my store the other day ifmd =toid
Silver maintains a collection of vin me his sister-in-law was an angel. |
age Fequire Magazines. His pride and told him, “Youre lucky, mine aint
joy mete Numer one lhumbineg dead vet
through it, hell point oul the old His final comment doesnt need
limiers wearing tab s, which he elaboration he allowed as how he
notes are currently in style liked “peanut-butier legs on girls
He says that the dresses since then Arthur Silver has a wealth of '
have changed a little bit. Silver used he'll willingly spout to any nierested
Ce ee of mene number onc tudent semmne from hm vainlevill
ifor $5.00 apiece, fol Knowing they) day up to flow \n imleresiing fian

ing, dirty-old-man sheriff is probably |

entertainment of the spectators, who
reveled until two gentlemen, “rolling
on the ground like swine,” knocked
over the barrel.

DR. GEORGE BAXTER. Although
a remarkably successful and much-
beloved president, had “an aversion
to details of all sorts,” a phrase to-
day translated as “out to lunch.”

“His normal conditions,” states the
Historical Papers was that of ab-
stract thought, in which he was un-
Observant and oblivious of college
regulations, bad recitations, and mis-
chievous boys. He was just one of
those grand, supramundane men who
deserve to be released from the cark-
ing cares of earth .. .” He is said
to have lost a large landed estate
simply by forgetting about it for long
periods of time.

COL. J. T. L. PRESTON, Profes-
sor of Belles Lettres at W&L (1884-
85) and VMI. Before the Civil War,
always refused to own slaves. Was
so impressed by Uncle Tom’s Cabin,
he immediately bought a number of
slaves, just in time to lose them all
in the war.

MR. HENRY VETHAKE., Became

 

By SANDY PADWE
Columnist
The Philadelphia Inquirer

On the wall of Dana Swan’s office
in the Haverford College gymnasium
is a depth chart of
the school’s foot-
ball team. There
are 32 names
spread over Ii
positions.

“Is that the of-
fensive platoon?”
a visitor asked.
Swan, the school’s
young football
coach, laughed.
“The what?” he
replied. “We don't
have platoons here, What we do is
run our offensive team off the field,
run them around the bench and send
them back on as the defensive team.”

Of the 32 persons on the chart, 24
actually play for the Haverford Col-
lege football team. The other eight
are either injured or simply too in-
experienced.

Of the 24, seven are freshmen.
Their names — appropriately — are
marked with a green pencil. “And
they're all regulars,” Swan said,

The coach moved away from the
depth chart and returned to his desk.
From the window behind him, you
caught a glimpse of the magnificent
Haverford campus which was getting
its annual coat of falling leaves.

 

Ex-Coach Swan

Football practice was an hour
away, sO Dana Swan had a few
minutes.

He always has a few minutes. It's
not like Ara Parseghian, Dave Hart
or Bill Elias, who communicate with
the public daily through a dull, com
puterized tape recording.

Of course, not that many people
want to talk to Dana Swan. First of
all, he has a name that sounds more
attuned to ballet than football. And
second, he coaches the lowest rated
football team in the United States
(1.0 in the latest Dunkel Ratings com-
pared to 112.2 for top-ranked South
ern California)

Haverford is 0-4 this year with a
good chance of finishing 0-7. Last
weekend the team lost 69-0 to Wilkes
the Middle Atlantic Conference small
college champion

“| know it sounds strange,” Swan
said, “But those kids passed a big
test for themselves in that game

They hit, hit hard, They sent two of

 

~~

Haberdasher

 

 

president, Feb, 1835. Of German

Ex-Lacrosse Couch Swan
Now Leads Worst Team

 

 

Profs: There’s One Born Every Minute

origin, he typified the absent-minded
professor. On an arithmetic exam, he
asked the question: “If 20 turkeys cost
50 cents apiece, what would be the
cost of a hogshead of tobacco?” He
was later attacked in his office by a
disgruntled student, sent a friend to
announce his resignation, Total term
of office: 18 months,

DR. LOUIS MARSHALL, Brother
of the famous Chief Justice, John
Marshall, he was named president in
November, 1830. Inaugurated  ex-
tremely modern educational ideas by
abolishing classes. Students were told
to study individually or in groups, as
they wished. Also took to playing
marbles with his Latin pupils, Since
students were allowed to wander in
and out of class all day long, “his
class room was furnished with a large
arm chair and also a bed, which en-
abled him to assume a great variety
of comfortable postures” while lectur-
ing for hours on end. He became ob-
sessed with the subject of biblical
prophecy, eventually announced to
his admiring students the imminent
end of the world. Disappeared dur-
ing summer vacation, 1834, without
resignation or explanation. The col-
lege survived,

Wilkes’ starting backs out of the
game in the first quarter.
“With five minutes left in the

second quarter it was only 14-0. Then
it became a matter of manpower
We have eight kids who play both
ways. Wilkes has a huge (57) squad
and even when Wilkes would substi-
tute they would be fresh and we
were too tired.”
aS + z

Swan admits he sounds like Don
Quixote in football shoes. The scorn
and laughter that goes with it, does
not bother him.

“IT came here from Washington and
Lee which has the same attitude to-
ward college football,” he said. “This
is the type of program I wanted to be
involved in. It’s a fine opportunity.

“Don't misunderstand, I'm not
knocking big-time football. | have a
lot of respect for the Parseghians and
Daughertys as men and tacticians, But
they are dealing with a product which
starts at one goal line and ends at
the other.

“If the football program fits in
with the philosophy of their organi-
zation then that's fine. Those people
are involved in business. If a coach
doesn't deliver, he's fired. If a
player doesn't produce, he might
lose a scholarship.

“At those schools, the academic life
of the player limited. But they
understand this when they take the
scholarship. They are getting what
they want from college. And they
most certainly are better off for
getting what education they do re-
ceive.

“At Haverford, of course, we have
none of that. Here. the alumni are
concerned, too, with what the team
does. But they are concerned with the
disparity between the over-all excel-
lence of the school and the showing
of the football team

is

“We are going to have a better
football team. Those kids lost, 69-0)
Saturday but they were out on the

practice field Monday eager to start
again. They are living this season on

hope. They know things will get
better

“This week we have a chance to
beat Franklin & Marshall. At least

they have names we can pronounce.”
Iwo floors below Swan's office, the
Haverford players were dressing for

practice
One of the ends is a junior named
Bill Bickley. He is a blond, serious

(Continued on page 4)

Arthur Silver
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

Washington and Lee University’s
State small college football champions

go looking for at least a share of

anther title Saturday when the Gen- _ _ Sobering Thoughts Simply put, W&L can't afford

erals meet Washington University in Optimistic as McLaughlin is Now| another blunder like that, esepcially 259 S. Main St.

Reale in on ceeded Cab, that his outfit finally has broken back after coming so far in what must be ee

a : rhea into the winner’s column after three |‘ . ; z LUNCHES — SUNDRIES

lege Athletic Conference game.

If W&L, already assured of its first
winning season since 1963, wins, then
head coach Lee McLaughlin’s team
will finish 6-3-0 over-all, 3-1-0 in the
CAC to tie Sewanee for the league
title. The Tigers already have finished
their season, winding up 5-3-0 over-
all and 3-1-0 in the conference.

If the Generals lose, McLaughlin’s
squad will have to settle for an in-
glorious three-way tie for second
with Washington and Centre of Ken-
tucky. To date, the St. Louis club is
4-4-1 over-all and 1-2-0 in the CAC,
while the Colonels, 6-2-0 for all
games, have completed their league
schedule with a 2-2-0 mark.

“We're not expecting to lose,” says
McLaughlin vehemently. “We haven't
won a CAC football championship

Fullback BILL MeDAVID, who finishes his W&L football career tomorrow,
is the Generals’ leading rusher with 304 yards and two touchdowns,

 

Charlie Freret’s Amazing Year

 

   

By THUNDER THORTON
Friday Sports Columnist

As the collegiate football

season
comes rapidly to a close, once again
fans across America wait expectantly

Ranks As 1967 Comeback Story

on Charlie Freret would have been

cruel.

Radio

but will supply a pleasant anti-climax
to the various parades in Pasadena,

 

since 1962, and we're too close now

to let all our efforts go down the| or else get caught flatfooted just like

drain.

seasons of frustration, there are some
sobering things about Washington
that easily could dash W&L’s hopes
for a share of the league crown,

One is that the Battling Bears have
not lost a game to the Generals since
1961, only three times since the
series started in 1939,

Another is the varied Washington
offense, featuring sophomore left half-
back Steve Morgan, that operates from

» Bear Season’ Opens Tomorrow;
CAC Crown Hinges On Outcome

pro-l, shotgun, and other formations, |

Ihe multiple offenses are characteris-
tic of head coach Dave Puddington,
and the Bears’ pilot never fails to
throw a batch of them against W&L.

“He’s a fine athlete,” says Mc-
Laughlin of Morgan, “one we'll have
to watch carefully. He does just about
everything but shine shoes.”

In fact, the Generals will have to

Thunder’s Theories

 

» Post-Season Bowl Policy
Shortchanges Spectators

two reasons. First, the bowls like to
insure a good turnout at the stadium
while correctly assuming that the
television audience will be substantial
no matters who plays. For this reason,
Southern teams year after year play

over-all strength of the Southeastern
Conference is undeniable,

but when |

 

463-6202

watch everything Washington does,

Serving Food and Beverages

SSS 9SSOSSSSS9OSSSSSS

B & F LUNCH

SESS PSESSE SS SSS SS SS OSSOSS

 

 

they did at Sewanee two weeks ago.

 

 

termed an unusually successful come-

G & E Restaurant

 

 

 

 

back year.

 

PARAMOUNT INN

Diagonally Across from Alvin-Dennis
LUNCHES — FOUNTAIN SERVICE

 

 

 

 

   

“Dobie Gillis,” ete.)

 

(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”,

 

 

FOOTBALL FOR SHUT-INS

At next Saturday’s football game while you are sitting
in your choice student’s seat behind the end zone, won't
you pause and give a thought to football’s greatest and,
alas, most neglected name? I refer, of course, to Champert
Sigafoos.

Champert Sigafoos (1714-1928) started life humbly on
a farm near Thud, Kansas. His mother and father, both
named Walter, were bean-gleaners, and Champert became
a bean-gleaner too. But he tired of the work and went to
Montana where he got a job with a logging firm. Here the
erstwhile bean-gleaner worked as a stump-thumper. After
a month he went to North Dakota where he tended the
furnace ina granary (wheat-heater). Then he drifted to
Texas where he tidied up oil fields (pipe-wiper). Then to
Arizona where he strung dried fruit (fig-rigger). Then
to Kentucky where he fed horses at a breeding farm (oat-

for New Year's Day bowl match-ups. | each other in New Orleans’ Sugar toter). Then to Long Island where he dressed poultry
ated tetas As is inevitable, these pairings will and Dallas’ Cotton Bowl, despite (duck-plucker). Then to Alaska where he drove a delivery
ee This time last year, a feature story | go a long way toward proving nothing, sometimes lackluster records. The van for a bakery (bread-sledder). Then to Minnesota

where he cut up frozen lakes (ice-slic +). Then

where he determined the odds in a gambling house ( dice-

o Nevada

 

 

 

quite perfect—one of her legs was shorter than the other

(blimp-gimper)}—she was nonetheless ravishing, what

with her tawny hair and her eyes of Lake Louise blue and

her marvelously articulated haunches. Champert, smitten,
ran quickly back to the hog-iloggery to plan the wooing.

To begin with, naturally, he would give Graffa a pres-
| ent. This presented problems, for hog-flogging, as we all
know, is a signally underpaid profession. Still, thought
Champert, if he had no money, there were two things he
did have: ingenuity and pigskin.

So he selected several high grade pelts and stitched
them together and blew air into them and made for Graffa
a perfectly darling little replica of a dirigible. “She will
love this,” said he confidently to himself and proceeded to
make ready to call on Graffa.

First, of course, he shaved with Personna Super Stain-
less Steel Blades. And wouldn’t you? If you were looking
to impress a girl, if you wanted jowls as smooth as ivory,

dewlaps like damask, a chin strokable, cheeks fondlesome,
upper lip kissable, would you not use the blade that
whisks away whiskers quickly and slickly, tuglessly and
nicklessly, scratchlessly and matchlessly ? Would you not,
in short, choose Personna, available both in Injector style
and double-edge style? Of course you would.

14 South Randolph ball in his own end
a South- |

(Continucd on page 4)

FRERET

zone for

+
~ %
% *
: * = . oo
% * And this time} Miami, and Dallas. The television net-| four or five of its teams are spread | pricer). Then to Milwaukee where he pasted camera
% %| last year he had} Works and stadia proprietors will reap | across the country, some of the bow! | lenses together (Zeiss-splicer).

® y ' ‘ . ‘ veo 7 ile — she P . . a : :
% Hos ital * capped it all with| 4 huge profit, while the armchair fan) game potential fan appeal is lost. Finally he went to Omaha where he got a job in a tan-
x p ‘ a truly horrend-| Will sit back late New Year's night-| Another cramp in the bow! selec- nery, beat#ng pig hides until they were soft and supple
% . ous day against after it’s all over and reflect upon tion system is the custom of auto- (hog-flogger). Here occurred the event that changed not
x : % Southweste at| the battle he just saw between two matically naming conference champ- only Champert’s life, but all of ours.
. Sales and Service | enw 8 6 h 7-3 record ; , :
% of a Memphis. teams with /-5 records. ions to some of the most prestigious Next door to Champert’s hog-floggery was a mooring
. y Thi Seee net m weese fae oat fae Aisiai _ ’ ‘ £ oof 7 aw : >
‘. | This situation seems to occur for (Continued on page 4) mast for dirigibles. In flew a dirigible one day, piloted by
% . . ‘ Besides bobbling ; : : ; : .
% Radio, TV, Appliances * oa se _ pe a girl named Graffa von Zeppelin. Champert watched
% ¥ | =" -—"a Graffa descend from the dirigible, and his heart turned
% 463-3531 s punts, Charlie : on z ; ea
e * over, and he knew love. Though Graffa’s beauty was not
° es once downed the
* s
es |
* s*
«*

.
.

A a ae ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

CF FF Oct rt ttt ttt tt tt lal et ett

4.
CSL LLL LLLP LEE PF?

‘,

LLL

 

 

OS

Washington and Lee University
Hnnkstore

A gallimaufry of fine books
TAIL-PAN
THE HOBBIT
THE AFFAIR
FORTILLA FLAT

‘
.
S9S9S9960"" |

CLAUELL
TOLKIEN
Cc, P. SNOW
STEINBECK

TRILOGY

SSSSSSS SSO

|
LEE EE EEE LEE APA AMAL MLA ALLELE OLSPELES:

C

 

Yep, it's that time of the year again. EARL EDWARDS (with ball), JOHN
CARRERE, NORWOOD MORRISON, STU FAUBER (lower right corner),
an unidentitiable roundballer, and the rest of the Five-Star Generals, are
readying themselves for the defense of their CAC title. The Big Blue see

ee ee eee
action this weekend in a pair of scrimmages with Fairmont State, Game

 

 

 

 

Ever-Pressed | times are 8:00 p.m, tonight and 2:00 p.m. tomorrow, The public is invited,
i
NOTICE
SS ‘ A . K S Red Front Gro. Ihe WAL-Washington§ ( game
will be broadcast on WLUR-FM to
ABC LICENSE 2269 OFF morrow afternoon, The pre-game
by FOOD — ICE show begins at 1:00, and the kick-off
on N, Main is slated for 2:25 p.m
WRIGHT secvccccoooooooooooooecs
——/_$ .
POOOOSOSS OOS SOSOS SOOO? ° Hill's Barber Shop °
' ' 2 WE AIM TO PLEASE 2
Never Needs lroning : Below the Lyric :
Lots of Colors . . So Champert, his face a atudy in epidermal elegance,
SOC SSeS COREE ECE E EES rushed next door with his little pigskin dirigible. But

Graffa, alas, had run off, ala
cialized in dropping lim«
lages (fruit-chuter),

Champert, enraged, started kicking his little pigskin
blimp all over the place. And who should walk by just
then but Jim Thorpe, Knute Row kne, Walter ( amp, al d
Pete Rozelle!

s, with a bush pilot who spe-
to scurvy-ridden Eskimo vil-

 

Just the Pants

Take a break from
for School |

your studies

 

Thunderbird Club

5124 Hilldebrand Rd., NW

$8.00 Roanoke, Virginia

COME TO

Whi Tl DANCING EVERY FRIDAY They walked silently, heads down, four discouraged
ite op AND SATURDAY NIGHTS pee, St Ape vy had be 7 trving to 7 ‘ ry eo

. y . I su ry couldn € seem to find the right kind of ba he
J. Ed. Deavet & Sons, nec, R t t Available for tried everything hockey pucks, badminton bird bowling
> en es auran Private Parties balls, quoits—but nothing worked, Now seeing Champert

MAIN STREET kicking his pigskin spheroid, their faces lit up and ‘

Route 60 Doors Open At 8:30 P.M. man they hollered “Eureka!” The rest is histor
> * >
Phone 142-3624 Speaking of kicks, if vou've got any about vour pres

|
|

ent shave cream, try Hurma-Shave, re gular or menthol,

 

 

SOCCER HHH e eee eee eee eee eeeee SPER Re eee

 

SESSSSSSSSSSSESSESESESEHEHSE SOSH SHSSSSSSSHSEESSSSSSESEHSEEHSSHSAEHSESESEESEHEHESSSSSEHSHHEESEHSEHHSEHSESESESEHEHEESESESEHEHH ESSEC ESE ESE EEEEEEEEES

THE

FIRST NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK

—— =. ee feet ee em

 

SESSSSSSSSSESESESSEHHEEEEEESESSHSHSSESSSSSESESSSSSSSSSESSHSSESSSHE HEHEHE SESESEHEEEESESEEEEEEHSESESESEEEEEESEEEESESESESESESEHESEEEE EEE HEE EEE EHEC EES
Page 4 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Concert Tonight

The Washington and Lee University
Concert Guild presents the Richmond
Little Symphony tonight at 8 p.m, in
Lee Chapel.

The symphony orchestra consists of
thirty members and is conducted by
Edgar Schenkman, conductor of the
regular Richmond Symphony.

This is the first time in the last three
years that a symphony has appeared
at Washington and Lee.

The concert is free to all students.

   

 

 

 

 

. ; = : : |
| might bring in a equal number of| Oklahoma in an intersectional battle} If this is not to be the case, then
/fans. But then perhaps the T-V net-| potentially filled with interest, Can|let’s make a few changes—like re-

works like to keep their viewers un- Dewey Warren outmaneuver Gran-| naming the Sugar Bowl the LSU-
Bowl Polic | excited and stable in front of their| ville Liggins, etc? | Mississippi Bowl, and giving Bear
y i screens, rather than trying to catch

| By matching teams from different} Bryant a permanent key to Miami
areas and with different styles, while | and its Orange Bowl. America’s foot-
avoiding the monotony of an almost! ball fan is not so naive as to believe
rch inevitable selection year in and year] that three quarters of the best college
the Rose Bowl contract, for instance,| hit upon the obvious solution with} out, the bowls can best uphold their | football is played in the Southeastern

Dana Swan’s Coaching Woes

|
|
(Continued from page 2) score was, but they really tried.

 

youngster, He sat with his head low-]| Monday, I asked the coach if I
cred, speaking softly and explaining] could get my uniform back.” }all the action by switching channels.
why he decided to rejoin the lowest Bill Bickley started at the floor. (Continued from page 3) | It seems that only the Orange Bowl
rated college football team in the] He probably felt a litthe embarrassed | bowls. This, coupled with clauses in|} and some of the smaller bowls have
United States, telling a story like that.

“IT lost interest earlier this year,”
he said, “and asked the coach if I
could become the manager instead.
He said all right. So I took the movies
on game day.

“Last weekend against Wilkes I
was up there watching those guys.
I don’t know,” he said, groping for
the correct words, “. . . it’s hard
to explain, but for the first time
that I've been associated with the
team, I saw something out there
that I wanted to really be part of.
They were in there without any
chance of winning but they kept at
it, all game. I know what the final

NOTICE
On the recommendation of the
Executive Committee of the faculty,

the faculty at its meeting on Novem-
ber 1, 1965 suspended for the next

three years the custom of allowing
students excused absences to leave
school early to work before the

Christmas holidays.

 

KENNEY’S

Chicken and Burgers

 

 

Perr

R. L. Hess and Bro.

Because this is the era of the O. J.
Simpsons and Terry Hanrattys. It is
the era of the National televised
games and the lavish recruiting pro-
grams. It is the era of college football
serving as a farm system for the pro-
fesionals.

Bill Bickley stared at the floor
cause he knew it sounded strange to
say that he was learning something
about football at Haverford that QO.
J. Simpson and Terry Hanratty
couldn't learn at Southern Cal. or
Notre Dame.

And it all sounded so very square
to an intelligent kid from one of the
Nation's finest academic institutions.
But it wasn’t. Dana Swan knew it.
That's why he gave Bill Bickley
another chance.

(Editor's note: Haverford College
won its first game of the season
last week, defeating Ursinus Col-

lege, Collegeville, Penna., 20-7,

Haverford plays Swarthmore this

week, and is favored by two

Dunkels).

 

that prohibit repeat performances, cas)

lead to mismatches,

A case in point is this year’s |

able Rose Bowl match-up. The Big
ren will send Indiana in all prob-
ability, against either Southern Cal
or UCLA, Purdue, the most logical
candidate from the Big Ten, cannot
go because they went last year when
Michigan State couldn't go because
they had gone the year before. Indiana
admittedly is undefeated, but those
fourth quarter miracles can’t hold up
forever, as the Boilermarkers will
probably prove on November 25. Yet
the potential of a Purdue vs. USC
UCLA game is ruined by this illogical
rule.

Such rules as this, and bowl selec
tion procedure on the whole, have
become increasingly dictated by one
factor—money. The Big Ten policy
itself is, in reality, merely a “share-
the-wealth” plan.

In seeking to assure gate profits
it seems that the bowls are overlook-
ing the fact that more exciling games

Charlie Freret’s Comeback

(Continued from page 3)

western safety, and another time ac-|

cidentally touched a bounding 75

yard Lynx punt, giving the opposition |
the ball on the W&L eight, and a|
| was nothing but skill involved in the

touchdown on the next play.
Needless to say, Charlie felt ter-

tain—of the W&L All-Opponents’

Admittedly, his four interceptions
against Southwestern involved a mea
sure of luck—two of them were de-
flected in his direction, and another
was thrown right at him. But there

three thefts he pulled off earlier this
fall against Hampden-Sydney, especi-

ed, did a somersault, landed on his

 

any _ regularity, This year’s Miami! obligations to the fans and earn ajand Southwest Conferences, as bowl
classic will probably pit Tennessee and | few dollars at the same time.

 

 

pairings usually indicate.

4| rible about his performance as the .
; JEWELERS } Generals lost, 30-14. Nor was he| ally the second one. i?
> 4} amused when some of his teammates, On that occasion, Charlie leapt u ,
| » a ‘ asion, p apt up }
—- oe ¥| in an obvious effort to cheer him Up, over the receiver's shoulder, grabbed
7 ; told him they had elected him cap-| the ball in mid-air with his back turn-

witd

 

in lt cl Alte ll lll ll lat tle tll

——e_—e_ 1 DORs back and knocked the wind out, but
What a difference a year makes! still held on to the ball
Last Saturday, WAL played South-| Charlie can’t explain the 180-de
western again, And Charlie Freret—| gree reversal in his performance-
it really was the same one-—inter-| neither can anyone else. “I guess it’s
cepted four Lynx passes—his seventh] because our defensive unit has been
eighth, ninth and tenth steals of the] getting quite a bit of work this year,”

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelery Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

 

 

 

 

 

 

163- '
season, as W&L avenged last year.) says Freret. “And Coach (Gordon)
30-13. Gay has helped me a lot, too. Every-
OCCA LEER AAA A” thing has just sort of happened.”
* S| Ironically, he almost didn’t get the
« ;
‘Si chance to redeem himself. At the
s
% NOTICE x beginning of the year he was injured
x @| and relegated to the ranks of the
% Royers Townhouse Restaurant S| reserves, but earned his way back to
‘ S|} a starting post with his magnificent
% la Beene Vista x ies & pos s ignifice
m | pli
‘
‘ a
: : —_— o . ‘ Charlie is really having a fine
NOW HAVE A CAFETERIA SERV ING FOOD % year,” McLaughlin added in an wun
AT POPULAR PRICES @ | derstatement. “He's just a natural

Avoid The Rush of Lexington on Big Weekends oe ae,

‘ Chances are, Charlie Freret will be
We Are Only 6 Miles Away Plenty of Parking Free %| placed on quite a few all-opponents

teams this year. And if Southwestern
. . . »
SEE LEE LL SLL LLL LEE LLL doesn't name him captain of theirs,

SCOSSESEEEEEEEEESEEESESESESEESESSESES OE HEEEESESEES its just sour grapes

MARTINIZING

 

 

PLS PSSA FO
“

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA

I won't
go into business when
I graduate because:

a. I'd lose my individuality.

   
  
   

 

EXPLOSIVE!
HELLS

® DRY CLEANING

* LAUNDRY

our Bell System teammates, the Bell telephone

   

 

 

 

 

 

® SHIRT SERVICE b. It's graduate school for me neanies, TI : of
{ " is takes a lot of thought, deci
c. My mother wants me to be a doctor trong stands for our convict (and
© ONE HOUR sometimes some mistakes were human,
Cant argue with c), but before you check eve 1.000 of us)
SERVICE 1) or b)—pencils up! There have been some | luality pays off, Not only in raises
SE _ ' ees : . » ie '
changes. Drastic changes in the t usiness | in personal reward as well. Like an engi
att A a THE scene. But changes in the vox poepuli attitud ho knew deep down that there was a
LES Tha regarding business specially on Campus better way to make a certain wire connector
Pr a renee just haven't kept pace ind did, Or a WE gal who streamlined time
3 Take the belabored point that busines con ollice proced res. and saved ws
F : turns you into a jellyfish. The men who run some $63,000 a year
| rhoval i th ' ' . seafii " i ‘ j
¢ neue ! i t ‘ nati is : ccesstul firms didnt Rew ‘ds nd accolad be ne “No
- On nl i nel i trusting in Gi | hinking creatively and nividuall For
ifd by agreeing with their bosse \ dom
:
i the i\ ell-modulated No vas Sai Not every hour is Fun Hour, but if you y
e And backed up with the savvy and guts to ot mation and individu \ Ve cot
THE MOST I® DRY CLEANING | day's busin demands it made, With a business like Western Electric
- | ' sh rt, duality is highly prized in We'll even help you answer 6) with our Tui
Bnoting much the siness worid—the successtul tion Refund program, Come on in and go
COLOR | much. Even when the business is big. Like for President!
. - ‘ FOR marune | W tern Electric, tl manul fu 1g at up
Lexington Shopping Park aovs re omy \ nee, anufacturing a rd suf
| | 1¢ +t : em

Ate we ee TOM |
* ’ ‘ i

We provide communic ations equipment for

 

 

 

@) Western Electric

 
