 

The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Universit

y’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

SIPA
Special

 

Volume LXVII

Miller First, Kinney Second

In Current E

By PE’

William Miller of Norfolk Catholic High School, Norfolk, Va., won
yesterday's S.I.P.A, current events contest with a score of 64 points out

of 100.

Second place went to Richard Kinney, Annandale High School, An-

nandale, Va., who scored 61 points.
School, Falls Church, Va., captured
Fourth place honors went to two dele
Douglas S. Freeman High School, R

High School, in Staunton, Va. Blair Gardner of Patrick Henry High, Ash-
land, Va., won fifth place with a 53 tally. And sixth place was won by Pat

Kenig of Greenville Senior High, Gre

About 70 delegates reported to R

Holler and Linwood Davis administered the test. Among the answers given

on the test were:

“Mass in F Minor” (Electric Prune
funeral;” and “term used in physics.”

Moshe Dayan (Israeli Defense Minister); “New leader of Republic of

Congo.”

Mexico City (Site of 1968 Olyn
sometimes to get out of the draft,” an
than Reno.”

F-111-A (New U.S. fighter); “Dr;
those in special fields to be drafted.”

Dick Gregory (Negro Comic); “Pop singer of ‘Hollies’ group.”

Bump Ball (New teenage game); “

Victor Mlambo (African
Most Reverend Terrence J.
“Wanted students to burn draft cards.
Charles Evers (Defeated candidate
of deflecting positronic beams.”

DNA (Recently synthesized genetic compound); Regulars of North Viet

Nam's Army.”

 

 

 

McDowell Says Racial Problems
Will Take A Political Solution

By DON HUSAT

Charles R. McDowell, Jr.. Wash-
ington correspondent for the Rich-
mond “Times-Dispatch and syndi-
cated columnist, said yesterday that
the ultimate solution to the racial
problems in this country iwil be
found in the political system. Speak-

ing before delegates to the 39th an-—
Press |
McDowell |

nual Southern Interscholastic
Association convention,

made reference to the death of Dr.

Martin Luther King, Jr., saying that |

his death “has more tragic dimensions
than have yet been realized.” He said
the former Nobel Peace Price Win-
ner was an apostle of non-violence,
holding desperately “to control the
potential chaos of the irresponsible.”

*

McDowell said that for the present
time, he would be willing to settle
for remembering the incredible things
Martin Luther King did for his peo-
ple, and the ideals for which he
stood. “For those who don't agree
with King’s goals, he said, “we can
try to imagine what he meant to
his people.”

Referring to the civil rights move-|
ment in general the 1948 Washing.)
ton and Lee graduate said there has/|
been great progress made since 1954,
with two qualifications: the criminal
can

or ifresponsible fool that set

President Bill Harris
Thomas Miller, Johan Crow, Dennis G

Gomez Elected New SIPA'/Presid

   

 

 

 
 

terrorist
in South America as Nazi war criminal.”

Cooke (New Archbishop of New York);

vents Contest

rE HOLLER

Rebecca Fox, of J. E. B. Stuart High
the third place award with 56 points.
gates with 54 points; Thomas Tokartz,
ichmond, Va., and Tom Bell of Lee

enville, S. C., with 52 points.

eid Hall Friday afternoon where Pete

8 hit); “Musical combo at Archbishop's

ipics); “State or city where boys go
d “known for quicky divorces, moreso

ifting class enabling collegians except

lype of narcotic used to stay awake.”

executed in Rhodesia); “Picked up

”

in Mississippi); “Invented new method

 

 

Charles BR. McDowell, Ir.

 

i back all the progress that has been
made; and secondly, the great danger |
of retribution that follows urban
riots,

Concerning the 1968 Presidential
race. McDowell said the main issues
will be Viet Nam and the racial issue
Viet Nam is perhaps the more im

 

(Continued on page 4)

  

welcomes and tatks with candidates for SIPA president 1968-1969, They are,

omez. Gary Salyers. and Doug Sessoms.

 

      

  

 

Dennis Gomez won the election for] Hill, §. ¢ Doug Sessoms
president of SIPA with a 127-vote| Kings Mountain. N. ¢ liom
margin over Gary Salyers from Chapel Hill, N. ¢

Gomez wound up with 195 votes Dennis Gomez
il Salyers 68. They were followed) High Schoo! in
by John Crow with 28, Doug Sessomne |
with 12. and Thomas Miller with & nok

Gomez is from Floyd E. Kellam | numerou

Schoo! n Virginia Reach. | He
rs from Hristol, Va.. where’ Beach
tiends Vir i High School. paper and
row ‘ publica Gar ( 7 f Yy
it Kock | i, Rock High & H \ ha

  

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 6, 1968

Number 44

Distinguished Service Awards
Presented To Advisers, Judge

Cecile R. Goodall

 

Mrs. Ruby L. Norris

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Commentator’

Three Others
Win Trophies

The Commenator of Douglas South-
all Freeman High School (Rich-
mond, Va.), The Blue and Gray of
Statesville (N.C.) Senior High School,
High Notes of Hartsville (S.C.) High
School, and The Owl of Big Creek
High School, War, W. Va. were nam-
ed state press trophy winners at to-
day’s 39th annual SIPA awards lunch-
eon.

High Notes also took top honors
in its newspaper catagory, schools
with an enrollment of 601 to 900.
The Commentator was in the First
Place Award grouping of schools with
an enroliment exceeding 1500. The
Blue and Gray and The Owl were
both in the Honor Award group in
schools with an enrollment of 601
to 900,

 

In winning the Virginia Press As-
sociation’s 20th annual award The!
Commentator was cited “for its wide |
range and balance of coverage: for!
its leadership and depth of thought of
its editorials; for its journalistic ex-
cellence in layout, headlines and writ-
ing; and for its effective advertising
presentation

The Blue and Gray, winning the
isth annual Winston-Salem Journal

cited for “its enthusiastic support of
the school's programs; it promotion

of a good relationship between the
school and the community; for its
excellent photography; and for its

effective program of advertising sales
and display...”

The South Carolina Scholastic Press
Award presented by the Greenville
News-Piedmont for the 9th time in

 

ent

 

nbher of fia High's
( ooperalive Association |
| and its Honor Council. He!
worked Orts edilor and bus
nm manage ior the newspaper
Lite Vir ; | = lettered
y iwoe
High
He
‘ Heat
teal ihilor } new
pup ia oe"

Carolina

 

Richard L. Tobin, managing edi-

tor of the “Saturday Review,” pro-
posed television programing to cor-
respond to the front page service of
the newspaper in a speech at Lee
Chapel today.

Fobin said American newspaper

 

Richard L. Tobin

memory of David A. Tillinghast cited
High Notes
school life, for its high quality edi-
and Twin-City Sentinel award was|'
content and writing.

for its leadership in

orials, and for excellence in makeup,

In winning the 12th annual West
Virginia Scholastic Press Award of
the Charleston Press Club The Owl
was cited “for its acceptance of its
vital role of keeping the student body
and faculty informed of school activi-

ties; for its well-balanced coverage of |

a wide variety of subjects: and for its
successful business operation...”

Statesville High School not only
had the winning newspaper in The
Blue and Gray but also won the
group IV yearbook class with its
publication Trial.

Last year five Richmond area
schools won group titles, but this
vear the judges awarded no more than
one title to any one locality Repre
sentatives from North Carolina, South

Washington, D«
and Virginia all won group titles

Georgia

The Aueusts Milita Ac ilenmy
“Recall” won the second Frank |

Gillam Award for the outstanding
left to right. | yearbook of SIPA
The special judging committee cited
ihe “Recall” for sound application
of yearbook fundamentals in layout

ind copy and for outstanding creative

| photography

Ihe

judge

  

Uni
iman High
Mra. Cecile
W Va ind

BR chmond

 

 

v of
J. Gilliam of W
i nm i woene
ph ann ul i fn Hl

Tohin Proposes TV Programming
Provide Front-Page Type Service

front pages have educated the ordi-
nary American. He would set aside
prime time for programming toward
the same goal by networks,

Whether from 6 to 8 or 7 to 9
p.m., networks could offer public ser-
ice programming, the day's headlines,
in-depth articles, top level govern-
ment reports, spot pick-ups, reading
of the classics, fundamentals of Eng-
lish and other languages.

“Such a public adult educational
service would encourage a great ad-
vance in this country,” said Tobin.
This would be on a “higher level than
the PBL regarding production be-
cause of the resources and talents
available to the networks.”

Richard L. Tobin, author, news-
paperman, and commentator, con-
cluded two days of speeches, short
courses, and criticism clinics for SIPA
delegates in a speech at Lee Chapel
today.

Tobin served for more than 26
years as a reporter and assistant city
editor for the New York “Herald
Fribune.” In adidtion he would write
editorials and deliver news broad-
casts.

His father was an editor of news-
papers, magazines and books for more
than 50 years. Tobin's first job was
on his father's paper in Niles, Mich-
igan. He was managing editor of the
| University of Michigan daily news-
| paper.

Following service on the “Herald
Tribune” Tobin was News Director
for ABC. As Director of Public Af-
fairs for the “Tribune” he ran its
Forum on Current Issues. From 1940
to 1952 he lectured at Columbia Uni
versitys Pulitzer School of Journal
ism.

In 1955 he served as Public Rela-
tions Director for the National Citi
zens for Eisenhower. In 1959 he was
similarly involved with the Nixon
campaign

In 1960 he
tions editor
view.

 

became a communica
for the “Saturday Re
In 1961 he became the manag
He is an author of books
and articles for national publications

ing editor

and syndicates and has lectured in
every state in the continental United
States

School

winhict

Richmond, the

past

( olegiile

trophy of the

in the schools category and

private

 

ineligible for rward this

lhe “Rec
vearhook
winning the 5. KR. Smith Hook Covers
Award. This

scholarship for a stu

in yeal

chosen the

 

Was

 

lop

 

country at Columbia

award is a

Company
full

dent

four year
the winning
Charlies I

ud isef

school
Save
He has
er alt SIPA th
ul year row
¥ Girady H gh Scho

714 Was t

 

yea

iF

 
   

nha

  

ie

runner-up

 

Last vear im anonymous donor
i trophy be named fer
Washington nd Lex University’s
Dean Emeritus Frank I. Gilliam. The
al unmisial im tha i in Pe

} iTHoOOK en iif

    

 

 

two years |

By ANDY LUPTON

Prof. O. W. Riegel presented three
Distinguished Service Awards at the
39th annual SIPA Awards Luncheon
today. The tradition of awarding ad-
visers and other outstanding journ-
alists certificates was initiated in 1954
but was discontinued in 1963, Many
outstanding names are on the perma-
nent plaques and include several per-
sons still active in scholastic journ-
alism and in SIPA. The keynote
speaker, Charles R. McDowell, Jr.
was awarded a Distinguished Service
Award as was Charles E. Savedge,
one of this year’s judges.

In awarding Mrs, Ruby Lee Norris
one of this year’s certificates Prof.
Riegel cited her as “a symbol of the
enormous usefulness of the dedicated
Virginia teacher who extends her in-
fluence beyond the classroom and,
through her interest and skill in
scholastic publishing, becomes a warm
friend and wise counsellor of our
young people.” Mrs, Norris was gradu-
ated from Mary Washington College
and has taught English at several Vir-
ginia high schools. While at John
Marshall High School she was the
adviser to the Marshallite and when
at George Wythe High School she
was adviser to The Chancellor. Under
her guidance The Chancellor won the
top awards given by all of the ma-
jor press associations.

In addition she has helped with
SIPA throughout her career both as
a judge and as a member of the
Executive Council.

The second Distinguished Service
Award was presented to Cecile R.
Goodall. In making the presentation
Prof. Riegel cited her for her out-
standing service to high schools in
Kanawha County, West Virginia. Not
only is she an outstanding teacher
but she also has served as a “per-
ceptive critic of yearbooks for the
Southern Interscholastic Press As-
sociation.” Prof. Riegei ended by cit-
ing her “as a progressive force and
contributor to the civic life of her
community and state.”

The final Distinguished Service
Award went to Abe D. Jones, Jr.
Mr. Jones is a member of the editorial
staff of the Greensboro News-Record,
Mr. Jones graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee University in 1951 and
was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in
that year. He is a member of the
North Carolina Editorial Writers’
Conference, and he chaired the con-
ference in 1963. He also is a mem-
ber of the National Conference of
Editorial Writers. Professor Riegel
cited him for his help in organizing
and running the Southern Inter-
scholastic Press Association

SIPA presents the Distinguished
Service Award an a attempt to
recognize the unselfish efforts of the
many advisers to scholastic newspap-
ers and yearbooks. The efforts of
these individuals are largely extra-
curicular, but through their guidance

as

they not only bring honor to their
school but they start many young
journalists off on the right foot. Not
all those who deserve awards are
recognized, but these three awards
afe symbolic of the appreciation of
the Southern Interscholastic Press

Association to all of those who have
worked so hard over the years for the

Association and for their respective

schools

‘Recall’ Takes Gilliam Award

jideime of SIPA
In previotis years Ny Veurhook
which had won the trophy in its
classification for two years was if
eligible for the trophy in the third
competition. In the addition of the
Gillam trophy it is eligible for at least
that trophy
win the award

    

nan High School
ihe award is

ichmond
Dean Gill
Recall 1180

famed in

 

“won ih

 

   

irbook tale

    
  
  

ife
Acad ha vo
es? th yea ih i del
i io SIPA f lackson
Preniice. R hat Pas
‘ Fox, Lal kK 8 k Ih
| David Kirkpa *
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

The Ring-tum Phi

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

SIPA SPECIAL

 

Judges Too

Suffer Mixed Emotions

By COL, CHARLES E, SAVEDGE,
(The role of the SIPA judge as seen by Col. Charles E, Savedge,

yearbook judge and adviser to the

is used here as an introduction to a judge’s eye-view of SIPA.—Ed.)

Too often when 9:20 rolls around on Saturday mornings at SIPA, judges
for the “contests” end up feeling as if they are a breed apart from the rest
of mankind, But judges are human. And this means that they suffer when
they have to give low grades just as teachers do when their students fail

to live up to the mark.

SIPA sets guidelines for judges a
books according to these guidelines.
five hours in going over each book,

drawing diagrams, and really sweating over the most diplomatic way of say-
ing that a book can be done better—better for the school, the students, and

the faculty.

And judges are human when they see books which have received care,
nurture, affection, and enthusiasm from their staffs. They are quick to note
the book which stands out because of the use of the English language and
there are several books which are entered at SIPA which would make any
“All American” team for the way in which they have been written. Gen-
erally those books which have good copy, body, captions and headlines, are
the ones which also have layouts which are modern, exciting, and clean
and they are the books which feature imaginative photography.

In ten years of judging, there have been fantastic changes. The most

noticeable is the dropping of “who's
will and testaments. In several groups,

in others, only one or two are now still clinging to these old fashioned trivia.
Photography has improved at least 100 per cent as staffs try to use the
lens as a photo-journalistic device. But the greatest advance has been in the
copy field. Yearbooks now are truly history books of one full year and as

such, they are mirroring the vitality,

for the period. Even ten years ago staffs seldom bothered about covering
the faculty except with outdated “mug” shots. Today, the faculty are shown
y outstanding books, copy is used to
. they actually emerge as flesh and blood, interesting

in their surroundings and in the trul
humanize them
humans.

Even today there is a movement towards more fluid layouts, more clean-
cut lines. Copy is more colloquial, capturing the essence of the late 1960's.
And cameras are used wisely and with zest. Judges and contest officials
. for eventually new rules will emerge as the
imaginative staffs and advisers use graphic arts with even more intelligence

have to stay on their toes. .

in making THE YEAR spring to life.
a person seek the new, the trend, and
fail to live up to their potential.

Books in SIPA do not have to take a backseat to any section of the
country. Just as parts of Indiana, Texas, Arizona, and Michigan are hotbeds
of good modern journalism, so are books from Virginia, North A arolina,
Georgia, and Florida. So judges go on, gaining gray hairs, worrying about

how to tell staffs the way to make

wondering if they have been fair, and praying that they have done some good

FEATURE PAGE

 

Are Human,

Augusta Military Academy “Recall”

nd each judge works on grading year-
Frequently, judges spend as much as
taking notes, analyzing, commenting,

who,” “senior superlatives,” and last
judges never see any of the above and

the young spirit, and the enthusiasm

Judging doesn’t become dull. It makes
it makes that judge suffer when staffs

their books as great as they can be,

 

 

 

in SIPA 1968.

Director O. W. Riegel Serves Final Year

Professor Oscar Wetherhold Riegel
steps down this year as Director of
SIPA. The position is held ex-officio
by the Director of the Lee Memorial
Journalism Foundation (department
journalism and communications) at
Washington and Lee.

Professor Riegel, 65, has reached
the retirement age for department
heads. He will remain on the faculty.
the 1969 SIPA director will be Pro-
fessor Paxton Davis.

Riege! has headed the department
since 1934. An analyst of central
European affairs and of methods of
propaganda, Riegel has held Full-
bright, Glenn, Ford Foundation, and
Rockefeller Foundation research
grants,
~ One of his books, “Mobilizing for
Chaos,” a study of the causes, effects,

and probable results of government

control of the press and other mass
media won the first Sigma Delta Chi
Research Award in 1935.

During World War Il, Riegel was
Co-ordinator of Information and
principal propaganda analyst for the
government. He was a regional speci-
alist for central and southeast Europe
in the Office of War Information and
chairman of the
Hoard

He was also OWI general repre-
sentative for Htaly and the Balkans
in 1945 stationed in Rome, cultural
attache for the State Department and
chief public affairs officer in the
American legation of Budapest. He
was aA visiting lecturer at the Uni-
versity of Budapest in the 1946 spring
term where he was presented with a
medal equivalent to an honorary de-
gree

From
curator
Awards
lelevision

He is a trustee and current secre
tary of Science Service, an organiza
tion for the popularization of science

He i« a charter member of the
Overseas Press Club in New York,

1966 Riegel was
Alfred 1. duPont
for Radio and

1980
for the
Foundation

a

New York Review |

SIPA Depends
On Secretaries
For Efficiency

Without Mrs. W. M. Hinton and
Mrs. Jay Cook SIPA would be much
less efficient and might even fail to
come off. Mrs, Hinton is secretary
for executive director of SIPA Pro-
fessor Charles Winston, and during
the SIPA convention she acts as an
administrative assistant. Mrs. Cook is
a newcomer to the full SEPA staff,
but she took over the housing depart-
ment and has done a magnificant job,

Pre-Registration

Mrs. Hinton has been connected
to SIPA for several years, and with-
out her the entire convention might
be in a shambles. She keeps track of
all of the delegates and advisers who
are coming. She gets their name tags
ready and eliminates the numerous
errors that appear on entrance forms
by writing countless letters and ob-
taining the correct information. Be-
cause of her experience she is the
person the student staffers turn to
when things get out of hand. Mrs.
Hinton has the correct answer and
a smile to get the staffer back to
work confident of the fact that he
has the right solution.

Mrs. Cook took over the housing
department from Mrs. Paxton Davis
this year. She has found that it is
quite a problem but she has man-
aged to find all of the delegates
accomodations that seem to suit
them. Mrs. Cook also serves as secre-
tary for Professor O. W. Riegel,
director of SIPA since 1930. She has
been corresponding with the potential
judges and speakers since September,
and continued to get out last minute
communications until the convention
ended this afternoon.

Reception

Both Mrs. Hinton and Mrs. Cook
have worked for years with arrange-
ments for adviser facilities. Mrs. Cook
is the menu expert when it comes to
selection of menus for the two meals
served. She also is director of the
Advisers’ Reception held concurretnly
with the SIPA dance each year.

Last year Professor Winston credit-
ed Mrs. Hinton with “carrying” him
because he was a novice and she
was an experienced administrator of
SIPA. Even though he has a year's
experience under his belt Mr. Winston
said, “Mrs. Hinton is considerably
more than an administrative assistant.
Her patience, advice, and sincere in-
terest in SIPA contribute to an en-
thusiastic and well organized atmos-
phere in which to work.”

SIPA works well because of a lot
of hard work by a lot of people and
there is no denying that two of the
most important are Mrs. Hinton and
Mrs. Cook.

 

 

Davis To Head J

Two promotions and a novel ac-
count for significant changes over
last year for three SIPA directors.
Professor Riegel has reached the
age of compulsory retirement as de-
partment heal. Professor J. Paxton
Davis has beeen appointed to suc-
ceed him. And instructor Charles E,
Winston has been appointed to the

 

Professor J. Paxton Davis

newly created post of full-time sta-
tion manager of WLUR-FM. Both
appointments are to become effective
in the fall,

Professor Davis, director of short
courses for SIPA, teaches classes of
introductory journalism, reporting,
advertising, and creative writing. His
latest novel, “The Seasons of Heroes,”
was well reviewed in the New York
“Times” as well as in local papers.
It is the story of a Scotch Irish fam-

Huntley New

 

 

 

  

 

Pres. Robert E. R. Huntley

 

 

a member of the National Press Club,
the Overseas Writers Club, the Cosmos
Club of Washington, Siema Delta Chi
and Pi Delta Epsilon journalism fra

ternities, Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron
Delta Kappa and Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity

He is an honorary life member of
Quill and Scroll, winner of a Gold
Key from Columbia Scholastic Press
Association, member of the Wash
ington Literary Society, National Con
ference of Editorial Writers, trustee
of Trends Research Assoc., and recipi-
ent of a plaque from the Virginia
Press Association for service to Vir-
ginia newspapers through journalism
education,

His wife was Jane ( ordelia |
Buttterworth of Philadelphia. They)
have four sons and a daughter: Kurt)
Wetherhold, 29, professor of radio/

astronomy UCLA; Cordelia Jane, 26, |
‘instructor in studio and art history, |
department of art, Hollins College
| Robert Hunt Keeler, 23, instructor in
i special education with the Norfolk

i{Va.) School Sysiem: Mark Bui

 

| porter

 

   

UVa. John

19, student at
16, student at the

terworth,
Quentin Melcher,
Westiown School,
syivania

Westtown, Penn-

Professor Riegel began his journ-
alistic Career as a paper boy. In 1918
he worked for a Neenah, Wisconsin
paper. Then he was a reporter for
the Reading “Tribune” of his home
town in Pennsylvania. He was a fe
and desk editor for the Paris

the Chicago “Tribune” and
New York “Daily News” and special
writer for the Lancaster (Pa.) “News
Journal.”

Helore

stall of

coming to Washingion and

 

 

|
|

Lee in 1930 he was an instructor in
literature at Dartmouth College.

He attended Lawrence College, was
graduated from University of Wis-
consin with a BA in journalism, did
graduate study at the Sorbonne (Uni-
versity of Paris) and received an MA
in American Literature from Colum
bia University

He has travelled in Europe many
limes, in communist satellites as well)
Western countries. He also has|
visited North Africa, Ceniral Ameri
ea, Canada, Mexico and the Carrri
bean i
In 1957 he was a visiting lecturer}

the University of Strasburg}
(France). Many of his published art-/
icles deal with Central Europe today.
as fesearched during his travels. His
articles have appeared in “New Re

As

al

public.” “Annals of the American)
Academy of Political and Social
Sciences Public Opinion Quart-!
erly, Quill.” “Christian Science
Monitor” and “The Nieman Reports.”
Riege! is listed in “Who's Who in
America.” ; ta

i eral

| Mote speaker
currently a school administrator

| Many ways the council has
administration
years

 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   

Professor O. W. Riegel

ily in the Shenandoah valley through
three generations of challenge. The
period is the ante-bellum, war, and
reconstruction South and ends with a
race riot in 1912. Since 1961, Davis
has been the Book Page editor for
the Roanoke (Va.) “Times.” He has
had several books published.

~ Professor Riegel will remain in
his capacity as professor of jour-
nalism. He teaches courses on law
and communications, propaganda,
film, editorial, public relations and
psychological warfare. He will be
serving SIPA as director for the last
time this year,

Winston, acting executive director
of SIPA, last year and this year, is
taking Professor John K. Jennings’
place in the clasroom as well. He
teaches reporting and radio and tele-
vision courses,

Professor Jennings will return this

W&L Dosidiens

Robert E. R. Huntley, president of
the university, was picked after a
seven-month investigation by the trus-
tees for a permanent successor to
Dr. Fred C. Cole. His administration
began with the start of the second
semester,

As those delegates welcomed by
Huntley know, he is a very young
and capable man. Washington and
Lee has been his educator and he
has been an educator at Washington
and Lee.

An honor student in both the
college and law school, he has been
a professor in the law school and
was raised from the dean of the law
school to the presidency. At the
same time he was the University’s
legal adviser and secretary of the

Board of Trustees.

Born in Winston-Salem, N. C., he
was graduated from R. J. Reynolds
High School. At WAL he was editor
of the Law Review, and vice-presi-
dent of the student body,

Huntley is a menvber of Phi Beta
Kappa, Order of the Coif, and Omi-
cron Delta Kappa. He received the
distinguished service award as a grad-
uatling senior.

President Huntley practiced law in
Alexandria before joining the law
faculty in 1958. He is married to the
former Evelyn Whitehurst of Virginia
Beach. They have three children.

Advisers Assembly

Has First Mecting
Al the sugges the Area

Executive Council SIPA held a Gen

Assembly of Advisers yesterday
li was the first attempt to convene all

ion of

the advisers for suggestions and ideas
on improving the of
SIPA,

Mrs. Marie N. Morris wa sthe key
A

eflectis eness

and
Mrs
Morris told of publication problems,
how administrations catch them and
how they handle them

Mrs. Ruby L. Norris,
the Area Executive Council presided
Mrs. Norris Douglas §
Freeman High School in Richmond
She Area

( ouncl year

former adviser

represents

i}

headed the

im its first

has b xectitive

oF admin
sifation. The planning of a

Meeting of all advisers

general
of

aided the

monly one

of SIPA in its first

    

ournalism Dept., SIPA

fall. He is currently doing graduate
work at Stanford University in Cali-
fornia in the field of journalism and
communications.

Professor Daivs attended Virginia
Military Institute and was graduated
from John Hopkins University. He
worked on newspapers in his home
State of North Carolina and on the
Richmond “Times-Dispatch” before
coming to Washington and Lee in
1953,

17 Judges Rate
SIPA Entries

The substance of the honors be-
stowed today depend directly on 17
judges. No matter how distinguished
the sponsors of SIPA may be the
entire worth of SIPA rests on the
quality of its judges.

Who are they?

Dr. Regis Boyle is chairman of
the department of journalism at
Catholic University. She founded the
department in 1942; she also directs
its Journalism Institute for High
School students each July. She is the
adviser to the University’s student
publications and to the school news-
paper at Walt Whitman High where
she teaches English and journalism.

She holds an AB from Trinity Col-
lege and has been a lecturer in
journalism and adviser to its paper.
Her MA and PhD are from Catholic
University. She has done post-doc-
toral work at Columbia University.
Last year she was a Newspaper Fund
Fellow in photo-journalism at West
Virginia University.

She is the recipient of the Free-
doms Foundation Medal for outstand-
ing educational service in the de-
velopment of American ideals, She
holds a Gold Key from Columbia
University and an award from
Washington and Lee for service in
journalism education.

She is listed in Catholic “Who's
Who” and in “Who's Who in Ameri-
can Education, in “Who's Who
Among American Women,” and
“Who's Who in the South.” She is a
member of Pi Gamma Mu, Delta
Kappa Gamma and Pj Delta Epsilon
honorary fraternities.

Dr. Boyle is a former member of
D. C. Commissioners’ Youth Coun-
cil, a former vice-president of the

 

 

 

 

Journalism Education Association,
and former president of Quill and
Scroll National.

Clark Chism is the assistant news
editor of the Chattanooga “Post.” He
has served on the faculty of McCallie
School in Chattanooga as instructor
in English and adviser to the news-
paper and as director of public re-
lations.

He was for a while part time staff
member of the € hattanooga “Times”
On sports, cily room and copy desk.
A graduate of Mississippi State he
holds an MA in English from the
University of Missouri,

He has been on the staff of the
hewspaper workshop at the University
of Tennessee and four years ago
helped to found the Summer Journ-
alism Institute at the University of
Chattanooga,

Chism has chaired the SIPA Ad-
visory Committee and is a recipient
of the Distinguished Service Award.
He holds a Gold Key from ¢ olumbia
Scholastic Press Association,

Father Augustine Cunningham
teaches English and public speaking
at Benedictine High School in Rich-
mond. He has been the yearbook
adviser for seven years. He is a
graduate of Belmont Abbey College
where he worked on the newspaper
and heiped organize an on-campus
radio station. He also worked with
radio stations in the area.

William H. Fishback, Jr. is the
Director of Information Services at
the University of Virginia. From his
graduation from Washingion and Lee

 

chairman of

in 1956, to 1966 he worked with
the Richmond “Times-Dispatch” and
held the position of assistant state
editor

Miss Cecile R. Goodall teaches at
Charlesion High School, Charleston,

| West Virginia where she is the year

book adviser. She is a member of the
SIPA Advisory Council. She holds
a BA in English and an MA in social
studies and political science from
the University of Wes! Virginia
She fraduate work
Miermational law at Oxford
Oxtord, Engiand. She
(Continued on page 4)

has done

in
Uni

versity sha

The Ring-tum Phi

SIPA SPECIAL EDITION

 

mbBers: Don Husa,

Ann Chaffin
The SIPA Spe bd
A ind I lt nive y ra

mi af

      

Donald R. Filis, Jr
Linwood Davis
Andy Lupton, Jack Chaffin.
Parl Edwards

the Ring-tum Phi i« published by the Wash
pier of Sigma Delia Ch

fhalional professional

m ami Lee lournalicn

Lahor Hory

 

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Trophies Go To 22 Publications Out Of Field Of 346 Entries

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP I (Enrollment 1500 or more)

Trophy Winner: The Chatterbox, George Washington High School, Dan-
ville, Virginia.

First Place Award Group: The Wildcat, New Hanover High School,
Wilmington, North Carolina; The Hi-Times, Henry Clay High School, Lex-
ington, Kentucky; The Jeffersonian, Thomas Jefferson High School, Rich-
mond, Virginia; The Sentry, Yorktown Senior High School, Arlington, Vir-
ginia; The Commentator, Douglas S. Freeman High School, Richmond, Vir-
ginia; The Monocle, John Marshall High School, Richmond, Virginia;
Raiders’ Digest, J.E.B. Stuart High School, Falls Church, Virginia.

_ Honor Award Group: The Highlander, McLean High School, McLean,
Virginia; Fair Faets, Fairfax High School, Fairfax, Virginia; Wood Post,
James Wood High School, Winchester, Virginia; Krabba Highlight, Hampton
High School, Hampton, Virginia; Le Journal, Huguenot High School, Rich-
mond, Virginia; The A-Blast, Annandale High School, Annandale, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: The Star, Halifax County High School,
South Boston, Virginia; Tribal Tales, Kecoughtan High School, Hampton,
Virginia; Jaguar Journal, Falls Church High School, Falls Church, Virginia;
The Roundtable, Floyd Kellam High School, Virginia Beach, Virginia; The
High Times, E. C. Glass High School, Lynchburg, Virginia.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP II (Enrollment 1201 to 1500)

Trophy Winner: Lanetime, Lane High School, Charlottesville, Virginia.

First Place Award Group: The Shipmate, Cradock High School, Ports-
mouth, Virginia; Greenville High News, Greenville High School, Greenville,
South Carolina; The Gavel, J. R. Tucker High School, Richmond, Virginia;
Wythe Ledger, George Wythe High School, Richmond, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: The Muckraker, Thomas Dale High School,
Chester, Virginia; The Falconer, Fauquier High School, Warrenton, Virginia;
The Communique, Manchester High School, Richmond, Virginia; Panthia-
nette, Hermitage High School, Richmond, Virginia; The Sabre, William
Fleming High School, Roanoke, Virginia; Hi-News, Edmunds High School,
Sumter, South Carolina; The Hickory Twig, Claremont Central High School,
Hickory, North Carolina; North Star, North Mecklenburg High School,
Huntersville, North Carolina.

Achievement Award Group: Mann-U-Script, J. L. Mann High School,
Greenville, South Carolina; The Earle, Warwick High School, Newport News,
Virginia; The Statesman, Patrick Henry High School, Roanoke, Virginia;
Talon, East Forsyth High School, Kernersville, North Carolina; The Albe-
marle Highlight, Albemarle High School, Charlottesville, Virginia; Indian
Scripts, Gar-Field High School, Woodbridge, Virginia; Blue Star, Avondale
High School, Avondale Estates, Georgia; Spokesman, Andrew Lewis High
School, Salem, Virginia.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP III (Enrollment 901 to 1200)

Trophy Winner: Cavalier, East Rutherford High School, Forest City,
North Carolina,

First Place Award Group: The Cavalier, Dorman High School, Spartan-
burg, South Carolina; Colonial Courier, Colonial Heights High School,
Colonial Heights, Virginia; Stinger, Herndon High School, Herndon, Virginia;
Southerner, Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia; Ye Royal Scribe,
Prince George High School, Prince George, Virginia; Loudoun Raider,
Loudoun County High School, Leesburg, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: The Eyrie, Airport High School, West Columbia,
South Carolina; The Yellow Jacket, Osbourn Senior High School, Manassas,
Virginia; Highland Fling, Highland Springs High School, Highland Springs,
Virginia; The Barker, Martinsville High School, Martinsville, Virginia; The
Little Virginian, Virginia High School, Bristol, Virginia; Talon, York High
School, Yorktown, Virginia; Viking, Loudoun Valley High School, Purcell-
ville, Virginia; Oriole Chirps, Pulaski High School, Pulaski, Virginia; Smoke
Signals, Henrico High School, Richmond, Virginia; Leeword, R. E. Lee High
School, Staunton, Virginia; Knight Letter, Cave Spring High School, Roa-
noke, Virginia; The Ambherite, Amherst County High School, Amherst, Vir-
ginia; Behind The Pines, Pine Forest High School, Fayetteville, North Caro-
lina: Rocketeer, Roxboro High School, Roxboro, North Carolina.

Achievement Award Group: The Franklin Eagle, Franklin County High
School, Rocky Mount, Virginia; The Bridge, Great Bridge High School,
Chesapeake, Virginia; The Mountaineer, Kings Mountain High School, Kings
Mountain, North Carolina; Jefferson News, Jefferson Senior High School,
Roanoke, Virginia; Sentinel, Liberty High School, Bedford, Virginia; The
Hilltopper, Rutherfordion-Spindale High School, Rutherfordton, North Caro-
lina; Crest, Northern High School, Durham, North Carolina; The North
Winds, Northside High School, Roanoke, Virginia: The Pioneer Post, East
Bank High School, East Bank, West Virginia; Hudsonian, Hudson High
School, Lenoir, North Carolina.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP IV (Enrollment 601 to 900)

Trophy Winner: High Notes, Hartsville High School, Hartsville, South
Carolina.

First Place Award Group: The Talon, Abingdon High School Abingdon,
Virginia; The Gamilacad, Woodward Academy, College Park, Georgia; The
Pepergram, Culpeper County High School, Culpeper, Virginia; The
Tunstall High School, Dry Fork, Virginia; The Trumpet, Hillsville High
School, Hillsville, Virginia; The Cyclone, Chester High School, Chester, South
Carolina: The Royal Dan, Dan River High School, Ringgold, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: Top Hat Tales, Dublin High School, Dublin, Vir-
ginia: Wa-Co-Hi-Lights, Warren County High School, Front Royal, Virginia;
Den Echoes, Orange High School, Hillsborough, North Carolina; Scarletter,
Lexington High School, Lexington, Virginia; The Stinger, Forest Hills High
School, Marshville, North Carolina; Defensor, Norfolk Catholic High School,
Norfolk, Virginia; Demon Tales, Northfork High School, Northfork, West
Virginia; The Acorn, Southern Garrett County Jr.-Sr. High School, Oakland,
Maryland; The Hoofprints, Orange County High School, Orange, Virginia;
The Blue and Gray, Statesville Senior High School, Statesville, North Caro-
lina; Marionette, Marion Senior High School, Marion, Virginia; The Owl,
Big Creek High School, War, West Virginia; The Spark, Patrick Henry High
School, Ashland, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Blazer, Cedar Grove High School, Cedar
Grove, West Virginia: The Trojan Trumpet, Olympic High School, Charlotte,
North Carolina: Touche, Fieldale-Collinsville High School, Collinsville, Vir-
ginia; Indian Smoke Signal, Stafford High School, Falmouth, Virginia; Blue
Print, Harrisonburg High School, Harrisonburg, Virginia; The Southerner,
Lee-Davis High School, Mechanicsvilie, Virginia; Medallion, Meadowbrook
High School, Richmond, Virginia; Demon Highlights, Christiansburg High
School, Christiansburg. Virginia; Byrd Echo, William Byrd High School,
Vinton, Virginia; True Relations, Varina High School, Richmond, Virginia,

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP V (Enrollment 401 to 600)

Trophy Winner: The County Crier, Floyd County High School, Floyd,
Virginia.

"lest Place Award Group: The Tornado, MoCallie School, Chattanooga,
Tennessee; The Gold and Black, Carrollton High School, Carrollton, Georgia;
The Colonel, Altavista High School, Altavista, Virginia; The Vista, Parry
McCluer High School, Buena Vista, Virginia: The Kablegram, Staunton
Military Academy, Staunton, Virginia; The Rebel, Louisa County High
School, Mineral, Virginia,

Honor Award Group: Wren Echoes, Wren High School, Piedmont,
South Carolina; The Acorn, Radford High School, Radford, Virginia; The
Cheraw High School, Cheraw, South Carolina; The Shield, River-
heads High School, Staunton, Virginia: Green Wave Spotlight, Williamston
High School, Williamston, North Carolina
Achievement Award Group: The Peanut Picker, Suffolk High School,
Suffolk, Virginia; The Thistle, Glenvar High School, Salem, Virginia; The
Monitor, Bluestone High School, Skipwith, Virginia; The Statesman, Ran
dolph-Henry High School, Charlotte Court House, Virginia; The Bridge

Hulletin, Natural Bridge High School, Natural Bridge, Virginia; The Trojan |

Trumpet, Midlothian High School, Midlothian, Virginia: Viger Tales, Blix

Ridge High School, Greer, South Carolina,

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP VI (Enrollment 400 or fewer)

Trophy Winner: St. Albans News, St. Albans School, Washington, D, C.

First Place Award Group: The Crossette, Holy Cross High School,
Lynchburg, Virginia; The Match, Collegiate Schools, Richmond, Virginia;
Fluco Hi Quill, Fluvanna County High School, Carysbrook, Virginia; Hill
Topics, Rock Hill Academy, Charlottesville, Virginia; Greenway Grapevine,
St. Anne’s School, Charlottesville, Virginia; The Shearings, St. Agnes School,
Alexandria, Virginia; Windsock, Eastern Mennonite School, Harrisonburg,
Virginia.

Honor Award Group: E.H.S. Chronicle, Episcopal High School, Alex-
andria, Virginia; The Meteor, Virginia Episcopal School, Lynchburg, Virginia;
The Round-Up, Rich Valley High School, Saltville, Virginia; The Chevron,
Benedictine High School, Richmond, Virginia; Pig’s Tale, Smithfield High
School, Smithfield, Virginia; Bayonet, Augusta Military Academy, Fort De-
fiance, Virginia; Green-Briers, Greenbrier Military School, Lewisburg, West
Virginia; Spartan Spirit, The Webb School, Knoxville, Tennessee.

Achievement Award Group: Focus, Prince Edward Academy, Farmville,
Virginia; The Gazette, John S. Mosby Academy, Front Royal, Virginia; The
Oak Leaf, Carolton Oaks School, Norfolk, Virgina; Per-Co-Hi-Tattler, Per-
quimans High School, Hertford, North Carolina; The Devils’ Tales, Lan-
caster High School, Kilmarnock, Virginia.

NEWSPAPERS, MIMEOGRAPH

Trophy Winner: Roundtable, James River High School, Buchanan, Vir-
ginia.

First Place Award Group: Patriot, Alleghany County High School, Cov-
ington, Virginia; Tornado Times, Richlands Senior High School, Richlands,
Virginia; The Jay Journal, Joelion High School, Joelton, Tennessee.

Honor Award Group: The Ram’s Horn, Blackstone High School, Black-
tone, Virginia; Zephyr, West Forsyth High School, Clemmons, North Caro-
lina; The Gardner, Garden High School, Oakwood, Virginia; The Chieftian
Rural Retreat High School, Rural Retreat, Virginia; The Dispatcher, Crewe
High School, Crewe, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: The Talon, Staunton River High School,
Moneta, Virginia; Vox Ducis, William Campbell High School, Naruna, Vir-
ginia; G. E. Voltage, Graham-Eckes School, Palm Beach, Florida; Black and
Gold, Buffalo Gap High School, Swoope, Virginia.

MAGAZINES, GROUP I (Enrollment 1200 or more)

Trophy Winner: Penman, Washingion-Lee High School, Arlington, Vir-
ginia.

First Place Award Group: The Labyrinth, T. C. Williams High School,
Alexandria, Virginia; The Bumblebee, Lane High School, Charlottesville,
Virginia; The Squire, Thomas Dale High School, Chester, Virginia; Cadence,
J.E.B. Stuart High School, Falls Church, Virginia; The Critie, E. C. Glass
High School, Lynchburg, Virginia; The Plough, Warwick High School, New-
port News, Virginia; Educator, Douglas Freeman High School, Richmond,
Virginia; Quill, Patrick Henry High School, Roanoke, Virginia; The States-
man, George Wythe High School, Richmond, Virginia,

Honor Award Group: Cardinal Talent Scout, George Washington High
School, Danville, Virginia; Matrix, Fairfax High School, Fairfax, Virginia;
Leaves, Claremont Central High School, Hickory, North Carolina; Tartan,
McLean High School, McLean, Virginia; The Log, Cradock High School,
Portsmouth, Virginia; Listen, Huguenot High School, Richmond, Virginia;
The Hearing, J. R. Tucker High School, Richmond, Virginia; The Galaxy,
Halifax County High School, South Boston, Virginia; The Signature, Ed-
munds High School, Sumter, South Carolina; The Erudite, Edison High
School, Alexandria, Virginia; Torch, Kecoughtan High School, Hampton,
Virginia; The Seroll, Hermitage High School, Richmond, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Bits O'Lit, Greenville High School, Green-
ville, South Carolina; Inkslinger, Andrew Lewis High School, Salem, Virginia.

MAGAZINES, GROUP II (Enrollment fewer than 1200)

Trophy Winner: Eboracum, York High School, Yorktown, Virginia.

First Place Award Group: The Review, Altavista High School, Altavista,
Virginia; The Argonaut, McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tennessee; Les Belles
Lettres, Si. Anne's School, Charlottesville, Virginia; Skald, Northside High
School, Roanoke, Virginia; Launchings, Newport News High School, New-
port News, Virginia; The Lemon Tree, Osbourn Senior High School, Ma-
nassas, Virginia; Seribe, Herndon High School, Herndon, Virginia; The

Scroll, Great Bridge High School, Chesapeake, Virginia; Spectrum,
St. Agnes School, Alexandria, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: Horizons, Carolton Oaks School, Norfolk. Vir-
ginia; Highland Scops, Floyd County High School, Floyd, Virginia; Idylls,
Cave Spring High School, Roanoke, Virginia; The Sleeping Giant, Amherst
County High School, Amherst, Virginia; The Academe, Salem Academy,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina: Peneillings, Hartsville High School, Harts-
ville, South Carolina; Ex Cathedra, Virginia Episcopal School, Lynchburg,
Virginia; Flame, Collegiate Schools, Richmond, Virginia; Acorn
Jefferson Senior High School, Roanoke, Virginia; Periscript, Stuart Hall,
Staunton, Virginia; Summer of The August, Woodward Academy, College
Park, Georgia.

Achievement Award Group: The Heather, Highland Springs High
School, Highland Springs, Virginia; Orator, Patrick Henry High School, Ash-
land, Virginia: Record, R. E. Lee High School, Staunton, Virginia; The Gar-
den Gates, Garden High School, Oakwood, Virginia; Scimitar, Staunton
Military Academy, Staunton, Virginia; Crossed Sabers, Loudoun County High
School, Leesburg, Virginia: Paradox, Varina High School, Richmond, Vir-
ginia; Royal Nonesuch, Prince George High School, Prince George, Virginia;
Collage, Henry Grady High School, Atanta, Georgia; Dux Seribit, William
Campbell High School, Naruna, Virginia.

Trophy Winner: Hanoverian, New Hanover High School, Wilmington,
North Carolina.

First Place Award Group: The Cavalier, George Washington High School,
Danville, Virginia; Chancellor, George Wythe High School, Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

Honor Award Group: The Marshallite, John Marshall High School, Rich-
mond, Virginia: Fare Fae Sampler, Fairfax High School, Fairfax, Virginia;
Aurora, 1. C. Williams High School, Alexandria, Virginia; Faleon, York
High School, Yorktown, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Tomahawk, Kecoughian High School,
Hampton, Virginia; Krabba, Hampton High School, Hampton, Virginia; The
Haliscope, Halifax County High School, South Boston, Virginia; The Crest,
FE. C. Glass High School, Lynchburg, Virginia; Grenadier, Yorktown Senior
High School, Arlington, Virginia; Sabre, 3.6.8. Stuart High School, Falls
Church, Virginia;

YEARBOOKS, GROUP II (Enrollment 1101 to 1500)

Trophy Winner: Clan, McLean High School, McLean, Virginia.

First Place Award Group: The Chain, Lane High School, Charloties
ville, Virginia; The Warwick, Warwick High School, Newport News, Virginia;
Historian, Douglas Freeman High School, Richmond, Virginia; Colonel, Wil
liam Pleming High School, Roanoke, Virginia: The Challenger, Floyd Kellam
High School, Virginia Beach, Virginia; Talismann, J. L. Mann High School,
Greenville, South Carolina

Honor Award Group: The Peer, Albemarle High School, Charlottesville,
Virginia: Nautilus, Greenville High School, Greenville, South Carolina;
Hickory Log, Claremont Central High School, Hickory, North Carolina;
Hightander, Highland Sprines High School, Highland Springs, Virginia; The
| Viking, North Mecklenburg High School, Huntersville, North ¢ srolina: Talen,
| Huguenot High School, Richmond, Virginia the Memoir, Manchester High

 

 

YEARBOOKS, GROUP I (Enrollment 1500 or more)

 

School, Richmond, Virginia; The Skyliner, Rutherfordton-Spindale High
School, Rutherfordton, North Carolina.

Achievement Award Group: The Causeway, Great Bridge High School,
Chesapeake, Virginia; Aleova, Alleghany County High School, Covington,
Virginia; Jaguar, Falls Church High School, Falls Church, Virginia; Anchor,
Newport News High School, Newport News, Virginia; The Admiral, Cradock
High School, Portsmouth, Virginia; The Tornado, Richlands High School,
Richlands, Virginia; Patriot, Patrick Henry High School, Roanoke, Virginia;
The Pioneer, Andrew Lewis High School, Salem, Virginia; Leeway, R. E. Lee
High School, Staunton, Virginia; Hi-Ways, Edmunds High School, Sumter,
South Carolina; Witness, J. R. Tucker High School, Richmond, Virginia.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP III (Enrollment 801 to 1100)

Trophy Winner: Orator, Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia.

First Place Award Group: The Reflector, Thomas Dale High School,
Chester, Virginia; Indian Legend, Stafford High School, Falmouth, Virginia;
Lord Loudoun, Loudoun County High School, Leesburg, Virginia; Peerage,
Prince George High School, Prince George, Virginia; North Star, Northside
High School, Roanoke, Virginia; The Animo, Franklin County High School,
Rocky Mount, Virginia; Rocket, Roxboro High School, Roxboro, North
Carolina; The Skyline, Waynesboro High School, Waynesboro, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: The Heritage, Liberty High School, Bedford, Vir-
ginia; The Virginian, Virginia High School, Bristol, Virginia; Cronus, West
Forsyth High School, Clemmons, North Carolina; The Cavalier, Fieldale-
Collinsville High School, Collinsville, Virginia; Omnibus ’67, Colonial Heights
High School, Colonial Heights, Virginia; Retrospect, Hartsville High Schol,
Hartsville, South Carolina; The Hi-Jacket, Osbourn Senior High School,
Manassas, Virginia; Mavahi, Martinsville High School, Martinsville, Virginia;
The Highlander, Southern Garrett County Jr.-Sr. High School, Oakland,
Maryland; Oriole, Pulaski High School, Pulaski, Virginia; Totem Pole,
Henrico High School, Richmond, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Voice, Patrick Henry High School, Ashland,
Virginia; Pow Wow, Blacksburg High School, Blacksburg, Virginia;Trails,
Cedar Grove High School, Cedar Grove, West Virginia; Polaris, Northern
High School, Durham, North Carolina; Milestones, Kings Mountain High
School, Kings Mountain, North Carolina; Acorn, Jefferson Senior High
School, Roanoke, Virginia; The Vanguard, Dorman High School, Spartan-
burg South Carolina; Aquila, Airport High School, West Columbia, South
Carolina; Hornet, Hudson High School, Lenoir, North Carolina.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP IV (Enrollment 601 to 800)

Trophy Winner: Trail, Statesville Senior High School, Statesville, North
Carolina.

First Place Award Group: Mirror, Warren County High School, Front
Royal, Virginia; Puffs and Patches, Covington High School, Covington, Vir-
ginia; Black Swan, William Byrd High School, Vinton, Virginia; Varinian,
Varina High School, Richmond, Virginia; Legend, Fort Defiance High School,
Fort Defiance, Virginia; The Buzzer, Brookville High School, Lynchburg,
Virginia; Chieftain, Hillsville High School, Hillsville, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: The Colonnade, Culpeper County High School,
Culpeper, Virginia; Bison, Floyd County High School, Floyd, Virginia; The
Hiad, Tunstall High School, Dry Fork, Virginia; Cestrian, Chester High
School, Chester, South Carolina; Sceptre, Meadowbrook High School, Rich-
mond, Virginia; Devilpup 1967, Lejeune High School, Camp Lejeune, North
Carolina; The Spartanian, Drewry Mason High School, Ridgeway, Virginia;
The Confederate, Lee-Davis High School, Mechanicsville, Virginia; Hurri-
cane, Marion Senior High School, Marion, Virginia; Saga, Loudoun Valley
High School, Purcellville, Virginia; The Beacon, Abingdon High School,
Abingdon, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Hornet, Herndon High School, Herndon,
Virginia; Le Sabre, Southern High School, Durham, North Carolina; Re-
flections, Orange High School, Hillsborough, North Carolina; Memoirs, Big
Creek High School, War, West Virginia; The Core, Louisa County High
School, Mineral, Virginia; Crystal, Lexington High School, Lexington, Vir-
ginia; Arehway, Dan River High School, Ringgold, Virginia; The Yellow
Jacket, Forest Hills High School, Marshville, North Carolina; The Crusader,
Glenvar High School, Salem, Virginia; Maple Leaves, Dublin High School,
Dublin, Virginia.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP V (Enrollment 401 to 600)

Trophy Winner: Colosseum, Riverheads High School, Staunton, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: Nuntius, Altavista High School, Altavista, Vir-
ginia; Castletonian, Castlewood High School, Castlewood, Virginia; The Oak
Leaf, Radford High School, Radford, Virginia; Leaves of Memory, Park
View High School, South Hill, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: The Log, Randolph-Henry High School,
Charlotte Court House, Virginia; El Dorado, Blue Ridge High School, Greer,
South Carolina; Golden Link, Bluestone High School, Skipwith, Virginia;
The Peanut, Suffolk High School, Suffolk, Virginia; The Echo, George
Wythe High School, Wytheville, Virginia.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP VI (Enrollment 400 or fewer)

Trophy Winner: Trojan, Midlothian High School, Midlothian, Virginia.

First Place Award Group: The Duke, Cumberland High School, Cumber-
land, Virginia.

Honor Award Group: The Ivy, Blacksione High School, Blackstone,
Virginia; Fluvannaual, Fluvanna County High School, Carysbrook, Virginia;
The Ham, Smithfield High School, Smithfield, Virginia; The Garden Echo,
Garden High School, Oakwood, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Choo-Choo, R. B. Worthy High School,
Saltville, Virginia; The Lasse, Rich Valley High School, Saltville, Virginia;
Ruralvalee, Rural Retreat High School, Rural Retreat, Virginia; Kileocanen,
Perquimans High School, Hertford, North Carolina,

YEARBOOKS, PRIVATE

Trophy Winner: Recall, Augusta Military Academy, Fort Defiance, Vir-
ginia,

First Place Award Group: Torch, Collegiate Schools, Richmond, Vir-
ginia; The Cadet '67, Benedictine High School, Richmond, Virginia; Quill
Pen, Salem Academy, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Honor Award Group: Lamb's Tail, Si. Agnes School, Alexandria, Vir-
ginia; The Pennant, McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tennessee; The Acorn,
Carolton Oaks School, Norfolk, Virginia; Blue and Gold, Staunton Military
Academy, Staunton, Virginia; Inlook, Stuart Hall, Staunton, Virginia.

Achievement Award Group: Pinnacle, Rock Hill Academy, Charlottes-
ville, Virginia; The Saimt, St. Anne's School, Charlottesville, Virginia:
Grenadier, Woodward Academy, College Park, Georgia: The Rebel Yell,
John S. Mosby Academy, Front Royal, Virginia: The Brier Pateh, Green-
brier Military School, Lewisburg West Virginia: Ne Oublie, Graham-Eckes
School, Pulm Beach, Florida, Special Mention; The Vestige, Virginia Episco-
pal School, Lynchburg, Virginia

RADIO

Trophy Winner: Krabba Karavan, Hampton High School, Hampton,
Virginia

First Place Award Group: Scholastic Scoops, Marion Senior High School,
Marion, Virginia: Greenbrier Radio Program, Greenbrier Military School,
Lewisburg, West Virginia

Honor Award Group: Lee Journal, R. EF. Lee High School, Staunton,
Virginia: Wolverine Turntable, Andrew Lewis High School. Salem, Virginia
Warrior Tom Tom, Kecoughtan High School, Hampton, Virginia; We Are
The Bison, Bullalo Gap High School, Swoope, Virginia

Achievement Award Group: Hickory High Speaks, Claremont Central
High School, Hickory, North Carolina; AHS-67, Altavista High School,
\ltavista, Virginia: Raider-Oin-The-Air, Loudoun County Hieh School, Lees
burg, Virginia
Page 4

THE RING-

TUM PHI

 

Winston Directs SIPA,
Teaches, Manages WLUR

The operation of SIPA for the past |
two years has rested mainly on the
shoulders of Charles E. Winston.
Mr. Winston is an instructor in the
school of journalism, manager of the
university radio station, WLUR-FM,
as well as executive director of SIPA.

Winston came to Washington and
Lee in the fall of 1966. He is a
graduate of the University of Mis-
souri where he received his bachelor
and Master’s degree in Journalism.
His home is in Denver, Colo,

Winston also spends much of the
day devoted to the programming
for station WLUR. It has just been
recently announced that he will re-
main at the university next year
with responsibility only for the sta-
tion. Professor John K. Jennings will
resume the post of executive direc-
tor of SIPA when he returns from
study at Stanford University in the
fall.

The operation and planning for
SIPA is not easy. As soon as one
convention is over, plans are made for
the next meeting. The meeting of all
members of the staff brings out points
needing improvement and further dis-
cussion. Thus one can say Mr. Wins-
ton has been working on SIPA since
last year’s convention ended. Dur-
ing the summer much of the litera- |
ture sent out in October and Novem- :
ber must be planned and printed. | South African Attends
Judges must be found and plans made |
to handle the great influx of materials
coming to Lexington.

In late November and December,
papers, yearbooks, magazines and
tapes come flowing in for criticism.
These must all be sorted, catalogued
and packed to be sent to the judges.
In this aspect as well as planning for
all parts of SIPA, Mr. Winston is
aided by Mrs. William Hinton.

After Christmas vacation the work
really begins in earnest. The activ-
ities are too numerous to mention.
Plans for entertainment, speakers,
classroom assignments, delegate hous-
ing, registration all must be made.
The little things must all be thought
of and accomplished. He really be-
gins to spend every moment with
SIPA at that time.

The planning is a difficult task and
ultimate responsibility rests with the
executive director. It is not a petty
job, but it must be done, Winston
does this as well as teaching a course
in television with one laboratory a

 

Charles E. Winston

week in Roanoke. The day is not

long enough.

The operation of an efficient and
smooth convention is his responsi-
bility, and the past three days have

 

out a spring vacation of any kind.

 

 

Ae
Ensor Transfeldt, a South African
foreign

exchange student represent-
ing Hickory High School, Claremont,
N. C. at SIPA, finds Americans ex-
ceptionally friendly. Transfeldt, who

come from Mafeking 200 miles west

East And West
Meet At AMA

Europe, Israel and Jordan.
Transfeldt says the American image

formed by exposure to

cans underestimate South Africa's in-

 

| ages. He believes the press in South
Africa and the United States distort |
each other's racial conflicts

(Continued from Page 2)
member of Phi Beta Kappa
tor of the “West Virginia History”
magazine, she life member and
former national vice-president of
Quill and Schroll

Miss Goodall in “Who's
Who Amone American Women.’
"irs. Pohert G. Holland has taught

The edi

ma

is listed

   

journalism and creative writing in

high schools in Richmond, Arlington

and Hanover County. She has been|

= adviser to magazine and newspaper:

Charlie Pascale and Larry Reed,| staffs and has organized one news

juniors at Augusta Military Academy,| paper and two literary magazines

 

 

Augusta, Va.. are both Americans She holds a BA in English from
who list their homes abroad. Pascale's| the College of William and Mary and
father works with an oil company in] has taken graduate courses in journ
Djakarta, Indonesia Reed's father); alism at the University of Texas. In)
works with a nfitrate company in| 1965 she was named a “Wall Street
Antofagasta, Chile. Reed is editor in| Journal” Newspaper Fund Fellow
training for AMA's yearbook “Re Following eraduation she worked
call Pascale is co-editor in training | 45 publication editor in medical
for the “Reeall.” science for “Public Health Reports
a magazine published by the Public |
Health Service of the Department
of Health, Education and Welfare.
She is the wife of the education
editor of the Richmond “Times Dis
patch
of Richmond has been adviser
to the Magazine and Newspaper al
} : Mirs. Elizabeth Jacks i a craduate
Nominate of the University of Arizona with a)
’ +r \ major in journalism and a minor in|
PAT PAULSEN English. She has been on the edi-|
lorial slafl af national magazine |
For President of These based in New York City, a reporter |

   
  

 

 

        

     

for a Tuscon (Ariz.) newspaper and
i member of a San Francisco ad-
United States vertising agency ee
Abram D. Jones, Ir he Edi
lafiai page I ir:reens

Paid Political Advertisement 4 a
-_ CHueS GYErisemen boro (N. ¢ lhe son of
i fewsp.upel raduate
1of Washin r wal
ii imaging a BR ine-tum

i Ph

irs. Henrietta Kinman « co-ord:
itor for the fimanitec fi the Rich
ion! public school system. A gradu
sie OF We hampion Col “« in

What do delegates and advisers

sample of opinion drew such com-
ments as “I’ve really enjoyed it”;
“It's really been great”; and “I’ve
learned so much.”

ed thought the short courses and the
program in general were “very good,”
complaints and suggestions for im-
provement were numerous,

Overcrowding, especially in the
short courses, was the most common
complaint. One delegate remarked,
“I went to five sessions and only got
to sit down at two.” He was far
from the only one with tired feet.

Advisers and short course instruc-
tors suggested that this problem might
be reduced if more courses were
offered at a given period or if very
popular courses were scheduled more
than once.

One adviser blamed the crowding
to poor planning. He said advisers
should sit down with delegates and

 
  
 

  

Non-Violent Life
Ends In Violence

The opening of the conven-
tion of SIPA was marred by
the death of an American in
pursuit of the ideals of the

  
       

 

 

shown what can be done even with-

 

of Johannesburg, South Africa, has |
traveled throughout Africa, Western!

 
 

Constitution we hold asthe
basis of our nation.

The SIPA edition of the
Ring-tum Phi does not usually
comment on topics outside of
the realm of our convention,
but, we feel the death of Dr.
Martin Luther King demands
some comment to a convention
of journalists,

The mood of the nation at
this time is very tense. The
feeling of the public is influ-
enced by the actions of what
seems to be a single man. The
ideal of non-violent protest is
in great challenge at this
moment. The non-violence
which Dr. King stood for is
lost in the expressions of griefs.

The role of the journalist
at this time is very important,
especially the role of the scho-
lastic journalist, The role of
non-violent demonstration is
formed in the teen year, and
we must guide the philosophy
for which Dr. King died.

We mourn the death of a
great American who had the
courage to stand for what he
believed. We will always re-
member with great warmth the
ideal which he brought forth

 
 
         
  

 

* i
in South Africa is one of affluence;

American |
movies and tourists. He thinks Ameri- |

dustrial, scientific and technalogical |
advancement, and think of South
Africa in terms of safaris and sav-

of the fulfillment o fthe Consti-
tution through non-violent
means. We appeal to all who
feel as we, that they follow the
road he set out. Violence is not
part of the American ideal. Dr.
King felt rightly that the road
fo fulfillment is peace. The
memory of his ideal should be
his greatest memorial,

| EI.

Seventeen Judges Criticize SIPA Publications

MA in English from the University
George Wythe H. S. where she taught
journalism.

Mrs. Marie N. Morris is director
of information services for the Chest-
field County School Board. From
1950 to 1963 she taught journalism
H. S. in Richmond
adviser to the newspaper

‘

it Manchester
She

was

; and for a time to the yearbook

The paper won the SIPA trophy
for mimeographed newspapers in 1952
md 1953. She then organized the

| school's first printed paper which won

the Virginia Press Association Award
it SIPA in 1984, 1985. and 1956

She has been a judge at SIPA
since 1956. is a recipient of the
SIPA Distinguished Service Award

ind of the Columbia Press Gold Key
Donald F, Murray is the Radio

imd Television News Director for
WDHI in Roanoke. He was assistant
mews director and an announcer for
the station before his promotion in
1045s
In 1982 he received a citation for
comprehensive news broadcasting
i'from the Virginia AP Broadcasters
He | past secretary of the Southwest
Virginia professional chapter of
Sigma Delta Chi, professional journ
alistic society

Delegates Feel Crowded at SIPA,

; try to send representatives to each
think of SIPA? A very select random | short course or discussion rather than

Although most of those interview- | criticism of the j

 

picking the most attractive offering
at any given time and sending sev-
eral delegates to it.

An adviser suggested that the
udges be given at the
first of the convention instead of on
Saturday morning as is done now.
While saying she understood the rea-
soning behind having it at that time
(surprise, holding the delegates for
the whole program), she added “You
hear a general criticism in one of
the courses, and you dont know
whether he’s talking to you or not.”

Praise was far more frequent than
criticism. Most delegates expressed
approval of the mixer Thursday and
the dance Friday, and the friendli-
ness of everyone involved was noted.
Delegates didn’t miss Washington and
Lee students who are on spring vaca-
tion, and advisers who have attended
SiPA conventions when students were
on campus strongly favored having
it during W&L’s spring break.

One criticism was confined to the
advisers. Most thought the band
Friday night was a little noisier than
necessary. One, as far away from the
band as cozy Doremus Gymnasium
would permit, shouted, “Do they have
to play so loud?”

 

Charles McDowell Says
Campaign Will Focus On
Race And Viet Nam War

 

 
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
     
        
   
   
   
    
       
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
           
     
   

 

Robert Norling the managing

editor of the Staunton (Va.) “Leader
From 1951 to 1964 he was a re
porter and city editor for the Ports
mouth (N.H.) “Herald.” He was also

reporter for the Haverhill (Mass)
Gazetic.”

Tim O'Keefe working on a
PAD in journalism at the University

of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, He
has an MA in journalism from UN¢
BA in journaliem from Wash
mgton and Lee

Joseph L. Presbrey, Ir.

public relations

ind a

a
at Virginia
Lexington. He
posite t Middl

lults

the

fec-ior a i<
Military

Institute in

iin simular "
College in Vermont and

bury

 

(Continued from Page 1)

portant for the long-run history of
the world, McDowell said, but at the
moment, the racial issue is far more
emotional. He predicted that Hubert
Humphrey is perhaps the man who
may be able to put the country back
together again, saying that he is not
the “raving liberal” he has been
made out to be.

Concerning the candidacy of Rich-
ard Nixon, the columnist said he can
be admired very much for his ex-
perience and ability, but because of
Over-exposure since 1951, there just
isn't very much enthusiasm for him.
Furthermore, McDowell contended
that the Republican Party is a third

party in this country, behind the
Democrats and the uncommitted in-
dependents,

McDowell also touched on various
phases of high school and profession-
al journalism. “To go into the news-
paper business and stay there, you
have to like it a lot,” he said. He
emphasized the importance of going
to a college that teaches more than
practical journalism, saying that one
needs a proper background in history
and political science with which to
work,

In learning to write, McDowell
noted, one must have faith in himself
and his reader. One should let his
own natural style develop, and one
should not “write down” to his read-
er and his intelligence as though he
were a twelve-year-old.

University in Masachusetts.

He served on a Vermont daily be-
fore entering college public relations
During summers he has assisted on
state desks, and done free lance work
for the wire services and as a news
cameraman for television. He
graduated from Boston University

Col. Charles E. Savedge has been
adviser to the Augusta Military Aca-
demy yearbook for the past 12 years
He is a graduate of WAL and has
taken graduate courses in journalism
at UVa.

He has been

since 1947 and

a teacher at AMA
has taught night
courses at Stuart Hall. This summer
he will conduct a yearbook short
course at Lake Junaluska, N. C., June
30-July 6. He is a recipient of

Columbia Gold Key

Albert H. Smith the assistant
principal of Kecoughtan H. S. in
Hampton. He has been the yearbook
adviser for five years. He holds a BS
in business education from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute

Bruce C. Souders is the chairman
of the English department and year
book adviser at Shenandoah College,
Winchester, Va. He has been an
instructor English, a newspaper
adviser and a director of public re
lations and publications at
Valley College, Annville, Pa
Mater

He also holds a BD from
Theological Seminary, Dayton
and an MA from Columbia
When a student
Valley College he was on the year-|
book staff, the of news
paper and a student assisiani in pub
lic relations

the

is

in

Lebanon
his alma

Linon
Ohio
Un

Lebanon

versily al

 

editor the

Al the same time he was |

 

a feporter for the Lebanon “Dai
News

Souders worked as a prootreadet
compositor and stone man al a com
mericial printers while at the Semi
fal He has written for varion

s of the Evangelical Union |

 

 

The Turner Sisters entertain the delegates on Thursday evening with a folk
music concert. Thursday’s entertainment just opened the door to a busy
convention experience,

i

 

SIPA is made up of many faces,
but the lighter moments outside of
the class and lecture can be the
most memorable. From the long
wait in the registration line, to the
tension of the Awards luncheon,
the light moments set the mood.

 

“And the beat goes on... .”

WAS Be

NW 4
The registration line and ali its mayhem is the first sicht for many delegates.
It may be chaotic, but it has the excitement of a child's first visit to the circus.

 

The annual dance on Friday evening is one of the most appreciated aspects

of the convention. Last evening the delegates were ined by students of
Washingion and Lee and the freshmen from Virginia Military Institute for
the dance.

 
