 

he Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
EDITION

 

Volume LXVII

IFC Approves
Pledge Reform

Pledging may be begin at any time
next fall, the IFC voted last night.
This reform of last spring’s rush rules
passed for the second vote with the

needed two-thirds majority, which
means it is now a_ constitutional
amendment.

Sigma Nu law student Bill Schildt
presented the fraternities a report
made to the Student Affairs Com-

mittee by a subcommittee consisting
of himself, IFC President Ellis Zahra,
and Dean of Students E. C. Atwood
Jr.

“Positive Support”

In the form of a three-page set of
“guidelines,” the subcommittee out-
lined what it hoped would be helpful
suggestions for the fraternities to be-
come more integral parts of the Uni-
versity community.

The recommendations concerned
physical facilities, membership, schol-
arship, social activites, and advisors.
Evaluation on a regular basis was
urged,

Ball System

In the section dealing with mem-
bership, a clause which Schildt said
“simply suggests that the system
should be examined” reads “Each
chapter should examine its one or
two ball bid system with a view to
making admission to fraternities less
restrictive.”

M. R. DUNN NAMED
1968 VALEDICTORIAN

Michael Raley Dunn was named
valedictorian of the class of 1968
by the faculty in its meeting yester-
day.

Dunn's election was based on his
having attained the highest cumulative
grade-point average in the senior
class—3.789. In doing so, Dunn re-
ceived A’s in 95 hours of courses,
B's in 16 hours and C in four hours.

Dunn is editor-in-chief of the Fri-
day Ring-tum Phi, president of Mu

 

Psi
member
Kappa, of Phi Beta Kappa and of the |

honorary
of

Beta
and

music fraternity,
a Omicron Delta
Concert Guild. In addition, he
recognized last month by the Wood-
row Wilson National
Foundation
pective teacher

Dunn, who lives in Newport News,
is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon

He will represent the graduating
class at Commencement June & in
delivering the valedictory

Kis, Hungarian Journalist,
Will Speak Next Tuesday

Csaba Kis Washing
ton bureau of Hungarian
Agency (MTI) be the
speaker at a colloquium of the
partment of Journalism and
munications next Tuesday
Library of Reid Hall at 4

Kis,

pourtaliats

chief of the
the
will guest
De
com
im the
pm
ot

was involved in the unde

who comes from a family
vround during the German occupation

Hungary and was imprisoned for

several months

ol
Following his gradua

tion from Eotvos University, he work

ed as a free-lancer for Mil, varius
student newspapers, and the Hungar
ian radio until he jomed the Mtl
in 1952

(Continued on page 4)

wis

Fellowship
as an outstanding pros |

News|

Moss |

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 5, 1968

Phi Beta Kappa has selected 23
W&L students and recent graduates
to membership in the oldest national
fraternity and honorary society. The
23 include six juniors, two law stu-
dents, who graduated in February,
14 academic seniors, and one senior
graduated in January.

The six juniors are Joseph Thomas

 

 

BROCKMAN

Concert Pianist
To Play Piece
By Prokofieff

Thomas Brockman, distinguished
concert pianist, will perform tomor-
row night in Lee Chapel.

The concert will begin at 8 p.m.
and is being sponsored by the Con- |
cert Guild.

The highlight of his performance
will be Prokofieff’s “Eigthth Sonata,”
which Brockman himself introduced
to many European cities for the first
time.

The program that has been chosen
by Brockman for his performance at
Washington and Lee is identical to
that which he gave in New York and
on one of his European tours.

Although the Prokofieff sonata,
written during World War Il in Rus-
sia, was introduced to the United
States by Vladimir Horowitz, it was
Brockman who gave it its first per-
formances in such cities as Vienna,
Berlin, Munich, Amsterdam, Oslo,
Copenhagen and Stockholm in addi-
tion to England's “Third Programme”

Of Executive,

The EC last night voted against the
proposed split of the EC into two
committees with separate executive
and judicial functions, The vote was
10-1 iwth Jody Kline the only mem-
ber not voting with the majority.

The rest of the night was spent in
hearing reports from the various stu-
dent body committees.

 

Curriculum Committee

Lane Steinger submited a written
report from the Curriculum Commit-
tee, which stated that work was con-
tinuing on the pilot study and evalua-
tion of the Political Science Depart-
ment. He also said that the committee
had become involved in other studies,
including some consideration of the
5-day week proposal.

Baremore Is Top Speaker
In Invitational Tourney

At Annapolis Academy

fom Baremore won the first place
trophy as the best speaker at the
Naval Academy's Invitational Debate

 

on the BBC. Tournament which took place last
The Spanish composer, Albeniz, weekend in Annapolis.
will be represented by one of his| Over 100 debaters participated in
best works—"E] Albaicin” from the| the tourney that drew teams from
suite, “Iberia.” 54 schools throughout the nation.
The program also will include two Mills Is Seventh
sonatas of Scarlatti, “Bunte Blatter,
= : Baremore artner, Chris Mills, |
Opus 99” by Schuman, Handel's ee ee : a

“Suite in D Minor,” Debussy’s “L’isle
joyeuse,” and “Laudler, Opus 171” by
Schubert

the tournament
The Baremore-Mills team won § of
& Debates with victories over the

LaSalle,

Losses

and Si
Oberlin,

Fordham,
were against
burgh, and Emory

Professor From Brown U.
Will Be Visiting Lecturer,
Discussion Group Planned

Dr. Edward A. Mason of the De
partment of Engineering and Chem-
istry at Brown University will conduct
lectures here on Thursday and Friday

Pitts

 

On Friday night at 8 p.m., he will}
deliver a public lecture on “Molecu
ilar Rainbows and Glories—Waves

and Particles.” in Room 201 of the]
New Science Building

Dr. Mason will also conduct a
Thursday afternoon physics seminar
ifor students and faculty. Informal}

| meetings with faculty members and
students concerning curriculum and |
problems be in
Dr

native

research will also

cluded
\ of Atlantic ( Dr
| Mason received his B.S. degree from
Virginia Polytechnic Institute in 1947
and his Ph.D. from M.LT. in 1981
He Coffin Fellow at M.11
from 1950 and a Research
1950 to 19482
Mason hus held
professorships at Penn State and the
| niversity of Maryland

In 1962, Dr. Mason
Scientific Achievements
Washington Academy

in Mason's visit

ity

was '
1949 to
there

During his career, Dr

Associate from

eceived h
Award of the
of Sciences =

 

was chosen the seventh best speaker at |

University of Virginia, John Carroll, |
John’s. |

Small, Jr., Virginia Beach; Michael
Walter Pustay, Bergenfield, New Jer-
sey; Christopher Henry Mills, Denver;
Samuel Duncan Hinkle, IV, Shelby-
ville, Kentucky; Marion Lee Halford,
Jr., Richardson, Texas; and William
Morrison Christie, Jr., Germantown,
Maryland,

From the Class of 1968, the follow-

EC Rejects Proposed Split

Honor Roles

Steve Saunders reported on the
progress that the Mock Convention
had made for the May convention.
The lack of general student interest
would hopefully decrease as time for
the convention approached, accord-
ing to Saunders. The crucial problem
of student behavior was considered,
and the EC decided to talk to the
Student Control Committee about
possible ways to enforce its rules
during the convention.

Saunders said that the convention
had begun to recruit students to serve
as sargents-at-arms during the con-
vention. He hoped that these students
would be given the power to report
students to the Student Control Com-
mittee and that Student Control be
given the power to fine in addition
to placing potentially rowdy students
on conduct or social probation.

Cold Check

Emory Waters reported that the
new system of cold check regulation
| was working well and that the Cold
| Check Committee had had little
| trouble in buying the bad checks of
| (Continued on page 4)

 

|

Two Clarifications . . .

| The following mistakes in Vol.
| LXV, Number 34, of the Ring-
| tum Phi, Friday Edition, have been
brought to our attention:

1) Under Mock Convention
| Notice: For “3:30 p.m,” read “5:30
pam.”

2) For Phi Eta Sigma picture:
For “Row 1, left to right” read
“Row 1, right to left;” and for
“Row 2, left to right,” read “Row
| 2, right to left.”

 

ing were selected: Corbet Franklin
Bryant, Jr., Dallas; Robert Noel
Clinard, Jacksonville; Charles Richard
Davis, Hampton, Va.; George Joseph
Dover, Shreveport; Michael Raley
Dunn, Hampton, Va.; John Robert
Fort, Trenton, New Jersey; Donald
John Godehn, Hendersonville, North
Carolina; Frank Roland Greer, Fort
Bragg, North Carolina; Hal Ford
Higginbotham, Jr., Shreveport; Curtis
Willard Isley, Martinsville, Va.; Rich-
ard Van Johnson, Chesapeake, Va.;
Charles Corling Lewis, Mertinsville,
Va.; Wesley Warren Murfin, Decatur,
fll.; and Henry Gilbert Smith, Jr.,
Charleston, S.C.

Clarence Bond Manning, a Janu-
ary graduate, was also selected. Man-
ning is from Manakin-Sabot, Va.

Law Students

From the law schol two January
graduates were selected. They are

 

Hollins Instructor Exhibits
Art Work In duPont Hall

A retrospective show of the works
of artist Cordelia Jane Riegel will
Open tomorrow at Washington and
Lee in the duPont Art Gallery.

The exhibit of her works will con-
tinue until March 31.

Miss Riegel is instructor in art at
Hollins College. She conducts a studio
course and teaches art history. Also
she is the instructor in the basic paint-
ing course at the Roanoke Fine Arts
Center.

Miss Riegel is the daughter of Pro-
fessor O. W. Riegel, head of the
Department of Journalism and Com-
munications at WAL.

Lexington H., S.

She is a graduate of Lexington
High School and Mary Washington
College. Last year she received her
master’s degree in fine arts at The
School of the Art Institute of Chicago.
She has also studied at the American
School of Paris in France, the Uni-
versity of Virginia and The Art Stu-
dents League in New York.

Her paintings have won several
first prizes in shows at Mary Wash-
ington College, Fredericksburg and
Williamsburg.

A reception for the
4-5:30 p.m. will mark
opening of the show.

arust
the

from
official

 

He Drove Mae Marsh To Suicide...

   

 

 

Number 36

23 Named To Phi Beta Kappa;
Convocation Planned For April

William McClure Schildt, Hagerstown,
Maryland and Bobby Wayne Tucker,
Long Island, Virginia.

Phi Beta Kappa was founded at
William and Mary in 1776, It has
since become a national honorary fra-
ternity for scholastic achievement. The
criterion for the selection of mem-
bers is based on overall academic
achievement and moral character.

The Phi Beta Kappa—Society of
the Cincinnati Convocation is planned
for April 18. A speaker has not yet
been selected. The initiation and a
formal banquet are being planned for
later in the day.

Saturday Study
Group Named

At its regular monthly meeting on
March 4, the faculty voted that an
appropriate committee be named by
President Huntley to study proposals
for a five-day week. According to
Dean W. W. Pusey the committee is
expected to be named “shortly.”

The committee is to submit to the
faculty for vote no later than its
regular October 1968 meeting a plan
for a five-day week. Such a plan will
entail amendments of the rules and
regulations of the faculty as will
effectuate a schedule of classes for a
five-day week.

Plan Proposed
Included in the plans to be con-
sidered is one for all classes and

laboratories to be held between 8:00
am. and 4:00 p.m., on the days of
the week Monday through Friday. By
this plan assemblies, lectures, home
athletic contests, and extra-curricular
activities should be scheduled at times
other than those set aside for regular
class and laboratory meetings.

Others Considered

According to Dean Pusey, the com-
mittee would also consider other plans
submitted for a five-day week. For
the results of yesterday's poll con-
ducted by the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi
in regard to Saturday classes, see the
article on page two of this edition.

Wycherly’s ‘Country Wife’
Performed In Troubadour
Theater On March 13-16

On the nights of March 13-16, the
lroubadours plan to present their lat
est production, “The Country Wife.”
“That said Lee Kahn, “if God
wills we still have our theatre then.”

What Mr. Kahn was referring to
was the recent flooding within the
theatre coupled with the collapsing
of a large tree against one wall of the
theatre

Aside from headaches about
conditions of the  threatre,
Baker, the student director of the
play, is faced with directing a play
which requires the stylized perform
ance of the Restoration Era in theatre
drama. “Don has quite a job on his
hands in teaching his cast individual
gestures and movements while hav
ing to work with the action of the
play as a whole,” noted Mr. Kahn

Mr. Kahn went on to explain that
Baker is the first in
dent directors which he plans to have
direct one full length Troub produc
tion each year. “I want to allow one
student a the chance
to direct Directing is

is,

the
Don

a series Of stu

year to have

his Own show

his many outstanding contributions the only area in which students can
to the molecular theory of gas prop-| not readily work here alt WAl
| ertic Since then, he has served as Both veteran Troubs and newoom
Associnie Paditor for the two scien ers to the theatre Compose Haker's
lifle publication Phy of Pluds cast, The cast includes: Robin Sweeney
from 1963-65 and the Journal of is Horner, Noel Clinard as Harcourt
Che Phy mm 1964 0 Jim Settle as Sparkish, Evan Jeffries
1966. Dr. Mason | he au is Pinchwife, Carlisle Landreth a
ol numerous journal artichk Su Jasper Hob Harody ss (Quack
Curreniiv, he € ornsultiat f Compton Currin as Margery, Champ
Oak Ridee Nation Luborat . ; 2 | Leary as Alithea, and Chi Mor
Institute of Defense Ana —* © - ss Luey
the G.E. Space Sciences Laborator oe oe. : 2 * ; " | The Red Legs’ job one of th
Dr, Mason 1 frequent contribu-| A film on D. W. Griffith, noted film director of the early era, will be presented next Monday night in Reid Hall 203.) Restoration conventions which Bake

tor to numerou cientifie journals, |

All are invited to attend,

including in the play

Saturday Classes Poll--See Page 2
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Twice-Weekly Newspaper

Tuesday, March 5, 1967

 

A small disagreement

We wonder whence originates the passion for joining the Vir-
ginia Association of Student Governments—or, frankly, for
even spending much time and effort in keeping a continual
watch on its development.

The fact that both Dean Atwood and Junior Senator
Spong addressed the recent VASG meeting leads to no con-
clusion at all. Dean Atwood spoke, moreover, in his capacity
as president of the Virginia Association of Student Personnel
Administrators, not as ““W&L’s own dean of students” per se.
If Robert E. Lee himself rose up to speak to the VASG, that
would in no way indicate that the group would be one whit
more careful with what it attached W&L’s name to. And that
has been our argument all along. Washington and Lee Uni-
versity would possess two per cent of the vote in the VASG
(being the exact equivalent of the vote of, say, John Tyler
Community College). The other 98 per cent would be free
to do with our name what it wanted.

Of course nobody can “prove” that VASG membership
would hurt W&L. But with our name appearing on its letter-
head and with no veto over what goes below, the possibility
is there. Let’s face it: Washington and Lee does not have a
great deal in common with a good many other colleges in
Virginia—not, at least, to the point where we could always
feel comfortable being a minority of two per cent among
them. Call it snobbishness if you will (we prefer “‘pride’) :
but we have, in our name, something to protect that a lot of
schools simply don’t. The VASG knows so. That’s why the
group has been inundating the Executive Committee with
wild-eyed propositions, invitations and the like without num-
ber. (To say the EC is “arbitrarily ignoring” the VASG is
erroneous. Even if it wanted to, it couldn’t. The VASG won't
let it.)

We don’t intend this to imply absolute closemindedness
against the VASG. But we can’t agree that the EC’s posture
in this matter is “not wise . . . not honest.’”” The VASG must
come to us, not us to them. And the VASG must guarantee,
not just reasonably assure, us that our school’s prestige and
name will be used judiciously—from our point of view, not
theirs.

 

Staff Editorial

Tintinnabulation

Near me bung Trinity's loquacious clock,
Who never let the quarters, night or day,
Slip by him unproclaimed, and told the hours
Twice over with a male and female voice.
—The Prelude, Book Third
William Wordsworth

# * Fy

The chimes of Lexington’s Trinity Methodist Church are
perhaps of a quieter nature than those at Cambridge, but the
problems of life at W&L are further compounded by bells for
Washington’s Birthday, bells for Lee’s Birthday, bells for
classes, bells for deceased faculty members, etc.

The cacaphony is further heightened by noon whistles, fire
sirens, and, on Sunday mornings, a number of bells that ring
for no apparent reason as if they thought to get students to
church by mere persistency.

Twelve o’clock noon is a dangerous time to live in Lex-
ington. But the worst part is that the bells are never right. The
noon whistle (which used to indicate noon in more stable eras)
now rings at 11:58.

The only remedy is to wear ear plugs or join Quasimodo
as a bell-ringer and escape your pain by giving it to someone
else.

—W.R. W.

WEL Student In France
Surveys Gaullist Strength

By RICHARD WATT le President again: ‘vous  parlez

serieusement, ou quoi?’ she said. I

Everybody is wondering about de) j.jked to one priest; he raised his
Gaulle, including the French. They | eves io the heavens, crossed himself,
are asking themselves how, when, (Continued on page 4)
where, who and why. How does he
maintain that freshly exhumed look
for public appearances? When will
he collapse and die under the weight
of all those medals he has awarded
himself on gloomy days? Where did
he find the time to take the Carnegie
course in “How to win friends and
influence people”? Whe manicures his
nose? Why does he wear his full
dress uniform to bed instead of pa-
jamas?

These are the more obvious of the
questions that are haunting the minds
of the civilized world these days, I
had occasion during my semester in
Paris last fall to question some of |
my French acquaintances on their
opinion of their leader Some said
est un grand homme’ with a broad
others said ‘C'est un idiot’ with

 

grin
a similar grin
One lady detailed the virtues of

Mme. de Gaulle until I finally inter-
asked for her opimon of

Jardin des Tuileries

Watt in the

i upte dl ind

 

Five-Day Week?----Resounding “Yes!”

By LARRY HONIG

The largest turnout for any ballot-
ing in W&L history voted an over-
whelming “no” to Saturday classes.
Eighty per cent of the student body
cast votes—1168 out of 1461 en-
rolled—and 84 per cent of these
were in favor of eliminating Saturday
classes (67 per cent of the total num-
ber of students.)

Of the 80 per cent, 73 per cent
(988) favored adoption of the plan
proposed by a faculty member, as
outlined in the Tuesday Ring-tum
Phi. Eight per cent opted for after-
noon classes.

Briefly, the plan consists of no
afternoon classes except labs and
seminars. The school day begins at
8, ends at 1:20; classes are 1 hour
long (there is a 5-minute break be-
tween classes), meeting alternate
weeks on MWF, then TTh.

Educational Aspect

In further criticism of the plan,
one high administrative official point-
ed out—correctly—that there is no
educational benefit to be derived from
the change, and that there are many
associated problems not mentioned
previously,

These difficulties have to do with
jaboratory courses, whose continuity
would be disturbed, various non-3-
hour-courses (Computer Program-
ming, etc.), possible increased frater-
nity expenditures on social activities,
and myriad others.

We feel, however, that as these have
been worked out in most other instiu-
tions, the burden here should not be
extraordinary.

A Relative Question

While we concede the point that
there may be no educational advant-
age, it is not necessarily true that the
change would be disadvantageous—it

 

The faculty yesterday voted to
form a committee to study plans
to convert to a 5-day week, con-
sidering any and all plans. The
faculty action, however, was not
believed to have been prompted
by this referendum. See related
story, page 1.

 

seems as though after all is consid-
ered, matters of convenience and pref-
erence remain the deciding factors.

Hopefully, this plan will be sub-
mitted to the yet-to-be-appointed com-
mittee for consideration; we are sure
they will use the results of this
referendum as some indication of the
student body's opinion.

vote at the ballot boxes. “Stuffing,”
though probate at some point was
not likely to be any more in
evidence than in other similar votes.

We express our thanks, first to the
faculty for its decision to set up a
study committee, then to those whose
criticism or encouragement helped
this be a fair referendum.

Ballot Comments

A new criticism noted on several
of the ballots in the comments sec-
tion questioned what would happen
in Lexington during the weekends if
the five-day plan is implemented. It
is believed by some that most of the
students would leave Lexington to
enjoy the pleasures of Washington,
New York and other “fun cities.”
This would cripple social activities for
the students unable to leave and the
school would lose much of its spirit.

This criticism accompanied — the
Other standard criticisms of chang-
ing the status quo. And finally a
sympathizer for the Friday Ring-tum
Phi feared if the plan were enacted
it could no longer be late and come
out on Saturday, which is a rare
occasion of course.

 

 

By STEVE SAUNDERS
Vitriol Editor

Of all the so-called “campus is-
sues” raised every year, the most
pointless revolves around the dual
responsibilities of the student Execu-
tive Committee as honor court and
legislature. A proposal to split the
Executive Committee into separate
legislative and judicial units some-
how materializes at the beginning of
spring every year, and this perennial
pattern of regularity suggests some
connection with either the vernal
equinox or massive doses of milk-of-
magnesia in the drinking water. In
either case, the proposal is a bad
one and, as a threat to the Honor
System, it needs to be refuted.

Partisan Claims

The partisans of such a split point
out that the legislative end administra-
tive duties of the EC are often so
heavy that the additional burden of
acting as an honor court endangers
the academic standings of the EC

 

members as well as impairs their

In answer to charges that (right- | efficiency in both roles, and vice-
fully) arise after any such referendum, | versa. Further, they claim an honor
we defend its accuracy. There was no| court with none but judicial duties
electioneering by those taking the! could dispense justice that is some-

Fulbright Scholar at W@L

how fairer than that handed down
by the Executive Committee now.
Likewise, the EC would have the
time, if freed from their work as an
honor court, to achieve more as a
deliberative and legislative body.

Viewing the EC as tainted by the
tar-brush of politics, these advocates
insist that a separate honor court
would be more respected by the stu-
dent body, and thus the Honor Sys-
tem would function more effectively.

To all of which, we reply: balder-
dash!

Not So Great

In the first instance, the volume of
legislative work and the number of
honor trials is not so great that the
EC has been forced to limit its ef-
fectiveness in either area. To do so
would be an admission of incompe-
tance, since in a school of 1400 stu-
dents the amount of student legisla-
tive, administrative, and judicial
work needed is very small.

Responsibility for official student
life is divided between the Interfra-
ternity Council and the EC. The IFC
quite possibly has more direct power
and a heavier load of sheer drudgery
to plough through every year than
the EC, albeit on a less grand scale.

 

Student Criticizes Conservatism

Editor's note: Klaus Eder is a
special student at W&L from Burgo-
berbach, Bavaria. He has attended
the University of Frankfurt and ar-
rived in the United States last
September as a Fullbright Scholar,

By KLAUS EDER

My remarks will be very critical;
my arguments might be exaggerated.
But I believe in the functional neces-
sity of radical critique (probably a
part of my German educational herit-
age).

The Graveyard

1) Compared with what was going
on in Frankfurt University when I
left it last summer, the W&L campus
appears like a graveyard; but I also
know this is not typical for American
campuses; | have visited some other
campuses (in the North) where I
could ascertain that people there are
stirred by the same ideas as they
are in Germany, Spain, England etc.
Everywhere students try to locate and
identify the place of the university
and of themselves in an—in_ their
eyes—irrational society.

But nothing (7) like that here (at
least | could never experience an
articulation of such an intellectual
concern)! The Shenandoah Valley
seems to be something like a “glass
cave” where (conservative) “thought”
is protected or rather rendered im-
mune from the outside world and its
challenges. In simple words: the
quiescence of this campus is its basic
characteristic,

Political Conservatism

2) This state of affairs is reflected
in the mentality of most students, |
admit, they are—for a part—interest
ed in politics; but most political ac-
tivity occurs within the framework of
narrow party politics, While trying to
find out the reasons for that I got
mostly one stereo-typical answer
(which sounded like an excuse): we
are conservative, Conservatiem as an

 

ekcuse, an excuse for non-existeni

     
 
  

political ideas which are worth dis-
cussing; students are captured by a
prefabricated frame of reference,
called conservatism,

3) That this campus is fraternity
dominated. They are necessary; for
they have to play the role of a refuge
for social which Lexington itself can-
not provide. But that situation is

worsened by the fact that social life
in fraternities is quite restricted; there
are some—imposed by the University
administration —- house-rules which,

 

Klaus Eder

for example, do not allow girls up
The consequence: privacy in
one important aspect of my social life
is taken away. In Germany we got
rid of all that kind of paternalistic
restrictions a long time ago, Even
student dormitories supported by the
| Catholic Church could not resist that
sway

stairs

| There it would be impossible today

that students would tolerate such a
severe restriction of their own right
Of freedom to mold their private so-
cial life. I can never comprehend why
| the faculty feels itself compelled to
control—at least indirectly—the sex-
ual life of students! That regulation
becomes ridiculous, realizing the dif-
ferential treatment of the sophomores
living in fraternity houses and those
living in their apartments. The con-
sequences of that is, that living in
a fraternity house is equal to a kind
of punishment.

Intolerance

4) | was disturbed to see how non-
conformist or radical minorities are
treated on this campus, This deep-
seated, negative, intolerant attitude
toward all that does not agree with
generally accepted values, opinions
and habits seems to be a great danger;
hostility toward non-conforming
groups is a symptom for artificial
exclusiveness: thus students become
| even more the prisoners of their own
system.

What keeps the system going is
only the paternalism exercised by the
faculty. In looking at its conse-
quences, the concept of the faculty in
loco parentis has a lot of negative
side-effects. | believe that in order to

 

give up this concept. Only after that
will the “spirit” of the campus change:
today a static spirit to which students
had to adjust and conform, tomorrow
maybe a dynamic spirit students can
icreate in a

= this campus, one has first to

vivid “intellectual”

“eae
demic community. If that does not
j happen, the campus will remain
| “backwards”: moreover its backward
i fess will increase

I am not ungrateful to those who

made it possible for me to study
here for one year. | rather think,
| have made some criticisms that

}
will help much more than a bunch

of shapely words and
; seniences

nice sounding

 

Saunders Questions The Validity
Of Dividing EC Responsibilities

The Executive Committee has del-
egated much of its power and duties
to student body committees: Assim-
ilation, Cold Check, Library, and
Student Control. The Dance Board
Operates in a world of its own, re-
sponsible to nobody but a student
public devoid of passion and there-
fore unlikely to complain in any
meaningful way. The EC has noth-
ing to do with the Dance Board,
except for retaining nominal appel-
late jurisdiction that enables it to
“reverse any order” of the Dance
Board, whatever that means. The
same is true for the University Publi-
cations Board, which is autonomous,
but which has its budget approved
by the EC.

It seems fairly obvious that the
number of specific activities the EC
must undertake, aside from admin-
istering the four student body com-
mittees, is small if not nil, The argu-
ment for greater efficiency still has
only tangenial pertinence when ap-
plied to the long laborious process
of interviewing candidates for and ap-
pointing members to the several stu-
dent body committees, since this is a
ritual only undertaken by an incom-
ing EC during the month after their
election, and therefore prior to actual-
ly beginning their term of office.

Dearth of Enthusiasm

The dearth of talent or enthusiasm
for student government at our school
is tragic, and should of itself be
enough to silence those who jabber
about splitting the EC. Where would
we find more men for the honor
court, when we cannot now ade-
quately fill existing vacancies? It is
an unhappy reality, but very con-
crete. At best, we could hope to re-
cruit more second-rate men, and that
we most assuredly do not need.

A separate honor court would at-
tract a type of candidate so fanatically
dedicated, so sincere, and so im-
pressed with his own fine, up-right
true-blue character that there would
be no room in his deliberations for
compassion, nuance, or a reasonable
doubt. As long as the honor court
consits, as it does now in the form
of the EC, of men with a good grasp
on reality, and not of a sanctimon-
ious panel of Pharasaical goody-
goodies, we can expect what Mackin-
lay Kanto once called, “An Honest
Man's Legal Justice.” According to
the Anglo-Saxon legal tradition, we
have the right to be judged by a
jury of our peers. This means, in an
admittedly narrow Lexington conteat,
being judged by real people and not
by a special caste of “honorable men”
whose pedigree seems based on their
ability to see the world in crisp, easily
differentiated blacks and whites.

And this result would be inevitable
if we have a separate honor court

WAL “Beau Ideal”

At Washington and Lee, our beau
ideal is the honorable man, the
gentieman, A gentleman can just as
fairly render justice as he can vote
on # political question. To split the

Executive Committee would in a
sense declare that we tolerate some
men who are less honorable than
others, and these men would be on
the legislatively-oriented EC while
the chosen ones, the Elect of God,
would sit in glory on the honor

court, untouched by those they judge
and removed from the mucky confu
sion of campus life. Washington and

(Continued on page 4)
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

A Sneak Preview Of Things To Come This Spring

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

    
    
   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Varsity Baseball i. ial Nia ti Si BA a a Varsity Lacrosse
Mar. 25—Ohio Univ. Here ; hi Q eae Mar, 30—Hofstra There
Mar. 29—Castelton State Here “A "4 oe Apr. 1—Loyola There
Apr. 1—Spring Trip Apr. 13—U. N. C. Here
April 10—Oneonta State Here Apr. 18-——-Notre Dame Here
Apr. 12—Lynchburg College ... There Apr. 20—Towson State Here
Apr. 15—R. P. 1. Here Apr. 27—Washington Here
Apr. 17—Elon College There May 2-—Roanoke Here
Apr. 19—Bridgewater Here May 11—Duke There
Apr. 22—Hampden-Sydney Here May 15—U. Va. Here
Apr. 25—Old Dominion There :
Apr. 30—Bridgewater Col, There Varsity Golf
May 10-11—C. A. C., Here Apr. 11—Hampden-Syd. | Boonsboro
Apr. 15—Old Dominion Col.
Varsity Tennis William & Mary _ Norfolk
Apr. 9—Richmond Here Apr. 17—Lynchburg Col. There
Apr. 10—V. P. I. There Apr. 29—State Tournament
Apr. 11—Eastern Mennonite .. There Hot Springs, Va.
Apr. 12—Morris Harvey Here May 2—Roanoke Col. Here
Apr. 15—Duke There May 7—Madison Col. rhere
Apr. 19-—Randolph-Macon There May 10-11—C. A. C. Here
Apr. 22—Lynchburg Here ————
Apr. 26—Frederick Here i ee i MU Orth gle MR Ree eee eee ”
Apr. 27—Old Dominion Here ,
May 1—Univ. of Va. There HICKMAN’S ESSO ;}
May 9—Madison There en ,
May 9—Centre Here :
May 10-11—C. A. C. Here US. 11 SOUTH
4
Hheeeeeennennenensesesns i)
LEXINGTON : bs!
HARDWARE ae te dt ey re ee a SUL Oe omds "eee | EAST LEXINGTON
| a GROCERY
SS a SSS SS —— Ss |
Varsity Track and Field CUMULATIVE BASKETBALL STATISTICS FOR 25 GAMES | Beer — Ice — Gas
IDEAL Mar. 29—Richmond Here | ra FC ae Goals Free Throws Rebounds Points | Shirt Service.... |
; wilt Be . spe | Player ‘G! ‘GA Pet. FTM FTA Pet. No. Avg. No. Avg! As You Like I
t Sho Apr. 9—E. Mennonite Here |" : s You Like It Open
Barbe P Apr. 13—Colonial Relays | Cartwright ~~ wf WH He hus OU 17.8|] Quality Cleaning and Pressing 7 Days A Week
QUICK SERVICE Williamsburg | Neer 188 6338 SS) $7) «131 43) «90S «(120 433 17.3] i.
Age. 1?~Lgnchbure ee Wesselink 142-295 48 36 66 $4 173 69 320 128 University Cleaners 8 a.m.-10 p.m.
——— ———--— | Apr. 19—Roanoke Here a = 131 $2 4 45 6 85 ae 165 7.5]
POGGIO’ SOOO, Apr. 23—Elon Col.* ere} a” re = z - a rr Hy : ee — - —
DP ai ' - “~ ; . “ —- =
LEXINGTON Apr. 27-016 Dominion Here! Morrison "we + £22 28 &
Apr. 30—Hampden-Sydney There | Edwards ? 53 41 2? 34 64 9 36 66 (3.0!
CLEANERS May 4—State Meet at V. M. 1. | Bauer 22 41 53 2” 27 (+14 24 2.0 64 53 De an = ate’
1 Hour Dry Cleaning May 10-11—C. A. C, Meet ....... Here] srone - £2 © 2S 2S & 6 Oe
Complete Shirt Service * Tentative | Rhyne 12 2S 48 ' ee 2 eS 2
a {|} —__—— -- ——| TEAM 2078.3 |
saleanaaledietae —e , eeeeeeceseeeoveeeeeeeeoe@ Own Team 796 1677 47 388 660 S58 1396 $558 1980 79.2)
: $|Opp.’s Team 639 1758 36 354 $20 68 1042 $17 1632 683
il’ ber °
Thunderbird Club :  Hill’s Barber Shop ° INDIVIDUAL HIGHS (Own Players)
° WE AIM TO PLEASE e|
° te tim Reis ° Player Opponent Date No,
Phone 362-3624 e y e| Total Points: Neer Milligan 1-5-68 34 (FG: 15 FT: 4)
5124 Hilldebrand Rd., NW : *| Neer Maryville 12-9-67 29 (FG: 11 FT:7)
Roanoke, Virginia Soecesereseoosoosesesees Wesselink Emory & Hn. 2-20-69 29 (FG: 13 FT: 3)|
Cartwright E.Carolina 2-21-68 28 (FG: 11 FT: 6)
DANCING EVERY FRIDAY PPP P PP PPPP PPI Field Goats: Neer Milligan 1-$-68 15 (Att: 23)
AND SATURDAY NIGHTS Wesselink Emory & Hn. 2-20-68 13 (Att: 20)
ROBERT E. LEE Cartwright RPI 12-5-67 14 (Att: 19)
Available for | Free Throws Scored: Neer RPI 1-8-68 21 (By Tm: 74)
Private Parties BARBERSHOP | Rebounds: Cartwright Greensboro 1-16-68 20 (By Team: 76)
p oO At &:30 P.M OPEN from 8:00-5:30 SCORES OF ALL GAMES PLAYED
WaL
SOOO a ae WEL Opponent
| Bridgewater 6 79 Southwestern 58 53
i RPI 61 40 Won CAC Tournament
| Lycoming 70 78
BLOSSER & FLINT, INC. Muarvville 10? 6?
iskey St Lynchburg 68 44
me Frent of Ge _ oo | Asheville-Bilimore 85 72 ROCKBRIDGE
FURNITURE — APPLIANCES — RADIO — N. C. Methodist 91 71
STEREO — TV — NEW and USED N. C. Wesleyan 89 61 LAUNDRY &
UNC-Charlotte RS 65
Milligan o4 4s CLEANERS
UNC -Charlotte oI 60
RPI 64 46 . .
FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECE OF FURNITURE Bridgewater 86 M4 Try Our Flail Dry Service
See CGireensboro 6 s7 -
Mars Hill 79 ss —— ———
Varner & Pole oe ~ ° 463-3141
4 wninion o » ran ret
| Greensboro 103 68 The Traditional
: | Lynehbure RI sO i
i i » . »
PPLPLPLPPPPPPPPPAAA as a va 64 BS Deansgate Plaid Suit
i a Fespyterian 71 74 i |
| Emory & Henry 110 6s || CENTRAL LUNCH » decent
: i. : ; i « & doesn't shout—it talks in an articulate manner—
; ' : Past Carolina ; 100 j
Washington and Lee University ‘Wa eetion t 6s a 2 positive, but never loud, And the Deansgate natural
Bookstore TRY OUR FAMOUS shoulder tailoring makes its point in the same quiet
LM ROUNDUP SWISS BURGERS and distinctive manner, In varied colorings,
&
By GEORGE Mac ARLAND Serving Food and Beverages
IF e e . . . . . o . Sixteen points by a fellow named A Wide Variety of Domestic
Armstrong omens a ae coal and Imported Beer Served ° >
- . man-to-man defense and sent P
CAN SPRING BE FAR BEHIND!!!) na™iouman defense and sent PKS and Delivered pin- Prints
% basketball finals. Unh ippily for SAI Telephone 463-2844
* PRS had cieht other eood men an _
ROO LE PLL LAPP AR RM LLL _ MS ' (Continued on page 4)
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Student Visits
France

(Continued from page 2)
and game me 50 centimes, mumbling
some sympathetic Latin. The most
philosophical response came from a
man who was digging a hole in the
road near the Are de Triomphe. He

said ‘Il fait son voulot, moi le mien.
Alor on est content’ (He does his
work and I do mine. Everybody's

happy that way).

Nobody really wanted to elaborate,
however, on his opinion, good or
bad: perhaps too embarrassed by vis-
ions of an England ‘au naturel’, a
fractured Canada and a defoliated
dollar.

France’s Press Agent

All these observations on le Presi-
dent’s style, public image and great
humility leave the crucial question
unanswered, however: who is he and
what is he after? De Gaulle is France’s
press agent, an undercover PR man.
He has enough intelligence to realize
that France must have tourists, tour-
ists, tourists and he uses the best
method to get them—publicity, pub-
licity, publicity. We must admit that
de Gaulle has an eager and prolific
press, and France has been turning ”
in the most unlikely places.

De Gaulle glories in the free cov-
erage of all his chauvinistic outbursts,
for he knows that no matter how un-
acceptable the words of him mouth
and the meditation of his heart may
be, the medium is the message. Some
people think that tourism will slack
off as a result of Gaullist gall, but
I think not: did you ever see people
flocking to the scene of a grisly acci-
dent?

General de Gaulle is a 19th cen-
tury man who is following in the

 

Napoleonic tradition that is so dear
to very Frenchman. The French are |
ambivalent about the present leader |
because he represents la Grande |
France which long ago died with the |
rise of the Super-powers. The awken-
ing to changes in the world power
structure has already come to the
other European countries, de Gaulle
hangs on.

Saunders Discusses Split

‘Continued from page 2)

Lee has preserved its character (or
what's left of it) by denying this
dichotomy of politics and honor, by
compelling students to elect honor-
able men to the EC because, in addi-
tion to acting as a representative
body, they might someday be judge
and jury in their honor trial. There
is no reason to change that now, The
Honor System does not need it, and
quite possibly could not survive it.

With so much pressing business
begging for attention, the EC would
be unwise to rehearse the well-worn |
arguments for and against this ill
conceived proposal. It ts not a campus |
and should not become one. |

 

Isstie,

HUNGARIAN TO SPEAK
(Continued from page 1)

He has served as Moscow corres-
pondent, head of the foreign news
desk, and now head of the Washing-
ton bureau. He has appeared frequ-
ently on the Washington TV program
“Meeting of the Minds.”

Kis is the third speaker in a 1967-68
colloquia series devoted to the foreign |
press and the United States, and the |
problems of politics and international
two-way communicalions

NOMINATE
PAT PAULSEN
For President of These
United States
Paid Political Advertisement

 

 

STATE

ee ere ae)

 

 

STARTS WEDNESDAY
THAT NO-NAME MAN

LEE VAN CLEEF |
ELI WALLACH | |

 

 

 

 

Intramurals Wrap-Up

(Continued from page 3)
the court at various times to run a
determined and balanced attack. The
SAE’s record slumped to 0-3 for a
tough last place finish. Their reign of
terror on the I.M. hardwood is now
decidedly ended,

A new reign of terror has begun;
at least for NFU it has as_ they
absorbed a 49-30 beating from a hust-
ling PDT team. PDT’s Dozier had
his way and put out NFU’s hopes in
the first five minutes. Murphy gave
him much help with 17 points and 6
rebounds from the guard position,

Now for the all IM. team. At
guards PDT’s Dozier and PKS’s
Cunningham. At forwards it has to
be Baker of NFU, T. McJunkin of
PDT. Center was the weak point of
the tournament, but NFU's Lohrman
did the best over-all job. Two other

 

 

 

 

 

Sign up for an interview at your placement office—even if
you're headed for graduate school or military service.

Maybe you think you need a technical background to work

for us.
Not true,

Sure we need engineers and scientists. But we also need
liberal arts and business majors, We'd like to talk with you even
if you're in something as far afield as Music. Not that we'd
hire you to analyze Bach fugues. But we might hire you to

 

guards deserve special mention, When
PKS won it was on the hot hand of
their dead-eye guard, Armstrong.
PDT’s Murphy also was an inconsist-
ent, but high scorer and deserves all
tournament selection,

Outstanding player of the tourna-
ment was PDT’s Joe Dozier. He was
by far the best defensive player and
he also had the best shooting per-
centage of any player in the league.

Oh yes, PDT and NFU lead the
field after the first round of IM.
bowling. Next week we will have a
fearless prediction of who will win the
I. M. bowling 3 championship.

 

25 Years Ago

It was learned today that the
rumors of a WAVE or WAC school
at Southern Sem are definitely false.

wind
,cou™ atv
ea nine nN genirsist’

analyze problems as a computer programmer,

What you can do at IBM

The point is, our business isn’t just selling computers.
It's solving problems, So if you have a logical mind, we need
you to help our customers solve problems in such diverse areas

 

EC Rejects Split
By 10-1 Vote

(Continued from page 1)

students from local merchants, The
problem of non-students cashing
checks while appearing to be W&L
students was referred back to the
Cold Check Committee for further
discussion.

Assimilation Committee

Mike Pustay reported the work had
begun on the Student Handbook for
next year as well as planning for an
effective assimilation program.

In other matters, Thomas A.
Schultz, the founder and president of
the Virginia Association of Student
Government, offered, in a letter, to
visit Lexington to talk to the EC
about its rejection of membership in
the VASG. The EC decided to allow
Schultz to come to a Monday meet-
ing at his convenience.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi—Tuesday

The Ring-tum Phi is published ‘Tuesday and Friday during the college
year. It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879.

Subscription rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

ROBERT S. KEEFE GREG PARKER
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
De es 5g lk ce ee

Edicorial-Page Editor . «wl tlle Joe Wilson
Sports Editor . . . « Steve Mason
Associate Editorial- Page Editor Larry Honig

Associate News Editors . Reeve W. Keley, Robert Yevich
Assistant News Editor . . . .  . Andy White
OO ee rll Ce
Advertising Managers . . Joel Fulmer, Glenn Moore

1h bete, '
Ve .

If your major
is listed here,
IBM would like

to talk with you

March 12th.

as government, business, law, education, medicine, science,
the humanities.

Whatever your major, you can do a lot of good things at

IBM. Change the world (maybe). Continue your education

(certainly, through plans such as our Tuition Refund Program).
And have a wide choice of places to work (we have over 300

locations throughout the United States).
What to do next

We'll be on campus to interview for careers in Marketing,
Computer Applications, Programming, Research, Design and

Development, Manufacturing, and Finance and Administration,
If you can’t make a campus interview, send an outline of your

interests and educational background to Mr, ¢
IBM Corporation, 1447 Peachtree St., N.E.,
Room 810, Atlanta, Georgia 30309,
We're an equal opportunity employer.

. EK Cammack,

8
