 

  The Libs: a place for p

procrastination? 4   

   F .OPll\llONSii/page 4

roductivit); or V

  Go back in time...again. ,
Check out this other oldie but goodie from

Sports Illustrated.

SPORTS / page 6

 

THE RING-TUM PHI. ,

MONDAY,NOVEMBER14,2011ITIHiE stuagnrs gunirnl’ THE SIUBEIIIS SIIIEE I897 VOLUMECX,NUMBERlS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSl'l‘Y

...~. .

By Allie Weiss

STAFF WRITER

Reformed international conman
Frank Abagnale will pay a visit to Wash-
ington and Lee Tuesday, Nov. 15.

Abagnale’s name is one that many as-
sociate with success. The fonner conman
now divides his time between delivering
lectures worth $27,000 to the institutions
that hire him and working closely with
the FBI. He owns a company on which
more than 14,000 organizations rely to
protect them from the dangers of fraud.
He has also published four books, one of
which was turned into a ﬁlm by Steven
Spielberg.

But his is also a name that went un-
used during an infamous period of his
life, replaced by aliases and seated atop
federal lists of wanted criminals. With
the name comes the story of one '
of the world’s most brilliant
and elusive conmen.

According to Abagnale,
when he was 16 years old,
he was taken out of school
and driven to a courthouse.
There, a judge asked him to
choose which of

 
   
   
   
 
   
    
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
   

from that day on. Up until that point, he
hadn’t even known they were getting a
divorce.

Abagnale ﬂed the courtroom. Over
the next ﬁve years, he accrued an esti-

mated $2.5 million, over $15 million in

today’s world.

During his years on the run, Abagnale
worked as a Pan Am pilot, a pediatrician,
a lawyer in the state attorney general’s
oﬁice, a stock broker, and a FBI agent.
By the time he could drink, he’d seen
eighty six countries and ﬂown more
than one million miles for free. And he’d
done all of it without even ﬁnishing the
tenth grade.

In a recent interview with Fox News,
Abagnale described his ﬁrst scam,
which he carried out using his
, father’s credit card. “I would
-. simply go around to the gas sta-
tion and I would say to the gas
"V  station attendant that I’d like
four tires. And he’d take them
down off the rack and I’d give
him the credit card. He’d call it
in and get an approval, and then

his two he’d get ready to put them on.
parents I said, ‘Tell you what. I re-
he’d ally don’t want those
like to tires, so I’ll sell you
live those 4 tires back
with for $100 cash.

You’ll get the

  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
 

money from Mo-
bile, you keep the
tires, I get a hun-
dred dollars [to]
take the girls out.’”
“I think I was
just very creative,”
Abagnale said in
that same interview.
“It wasn’t that I was

brilliant, I was just very_much an entre-
preneur. I saw things that other people
didn’t see. Isaw weaknesses by observ-
ing things that other people probably
paid no attention-to.” 1
Among Abagnale’s many cons, per-
haps one of the most cunning was the
time he opened a bank account with his
last $100, and ﬁnished the week 400
times richer. As he was leaving the bank
after opening his account, he picked up
a stack of blank deposit slips. The next

day, he wrote his account number on all ~

of the slips using the same type of mag-
netic ink that banks used. He put the
slips back in the lobby of the bank, and
everyone who used them that day was
effectively depositing their checks into
Abagnale’s new account. He withdrew
$40,000 that same day and walked away
scot-free.

In an interview with PM Magazine in
1980, Abagnale described how he made
his way into the state attorney general’s
ofﬁce. “When I was about nineteen years
old, I came to Baton Rouge and 1 ap-
plied to take the bar. I presented a phony
transcript from Harvard and told them I
was 28 years old, and a ‘law graduate. I
took the bar the first time. ﬁunked it. The
second time, ﬂunked it. The third time, I
passed it, and was licensed by the state,
and not only became a lawyer, but an ad-
ministrative aid in the attorney general’s
ofﬁce, where I practiced law for about a
year.”

When he was 21 years old, Abag-
nale settled for a short time in Montpel-
lier, France. Not too long afterwards, an
Air-France stewardess recognized his
picture on a wanted poster, and told the
French police where he was living. He
was brought to trial in France, convicted,
and spent six months in a French prison.

During his time there, where he was re-
ported to have been held without inter-
ruption in a dark cell and given access to
neither toilets nor a mattress, Abagnale
stated in an interview with Don Tennant,
“The truth is, as harsh as the French pris-
ons were, I thought they were the most
effective ofall. No one ever came in and
beat me up or physically abused me, but
what they were literally saying is, ‘You
don’t know how to live in society, so
we’re going to take you out of society.
You acted like an animal, so we’re going
to treat you like an animal. We’re going
to put you in this box, and you can think
about what you did.’” This he compared
to his time spent in an American prison.
“I played miniature golf, I watched mov-
ies on the weekend, I had the best of
food. Someone took care of every need
I had—medical, dental. It wasn’t a bad
life,” Abagnale said.

However, despite such pampering,
Abagnale accepted the offer that came
from the government when he was 26,
4 years into the 12-year sentence that
he’d been given after his extradition to
America. He would be released on- pa-
role under two conditions. The ﬁrst was
that he move to Houston. Texas. The
second was that he serve the remainder
of his sentence helping the government
solve crimes related to forgery and coun-
terfeiting.

After prison, he took small jobs,_but
was always ﬁred once his employers
discovered his status as a convicted con-
man. Finally, he approached a bank staff
and offered to demonstrate the tricks that
scam artists use so that the bank could
avoid being subject to them in the future.
If the staff found his expertise useful,
they would owe him $500 and a recom-
mendation. Both parties ended up ben-

 TOMORROW at 7
 You Can” TODAY 

    

eﬁtting from Abagnale’s experti‘se,‘a,nd,
that day was the ﬁrst of _a thirty—seven
year career‘ in. ‘arming organizations-
against the dangers of fraud. ,  . "

Abagnale eventually founded Abag-
nale & Associates, a company dedicated
to such a service, as well as authored
several books detailing common tricks
of the conman’s trade. One of these
books, Catch Me if You Can, was made
into a ﬁlm featuring Leonardo DiCaprio
and Tom Hanks.

“I would be lying ifl said it wasn’t
fun,” Abagnalehas said. “I would be ly-
ing if I said it wasn’t an incredible life
that I have lived.”

Today, after having worked for more
than 35 years with the federal govern-
ment, Abagnale lives with his wife and
three sons. His oldest son is currently an
agent with the FBI. Upon being asked
about his son’s choice to join the very
organization that had hunted Abagnale
throughout the l960’s, he replied, “At 63
years old, I will never experience again
what was the proudest moment of my
life when my son crossedthe stage at the
FBI Academy and became an FBI agent.
He’s in the 6th year at the Bureau and
living his dream.”

When PM Magazine asked if he was
reformed, Abagnale replied, “No, just
retired. I decided to take all the talents
I had, and just redirect them in a very
positive way and do something positive
with my life.”

The Contact Committee, W&L’s
student-run organization dedicated to
bringing remarkable people to campus,
is hosting Frank Abagnale at 7:30 p.m.
on Nov. 15 in Lee Chapel. Before his ar-
rival, students are welcome to see Catch
Me if You Can at 8:00 p.m.-. on Nov. 14.

  
 
  

Campus Kitchens gives back

Hunger and Homelessness Week raises awareness

By Neil Haggerty
COPY EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Campus Kitchen and Na-
bors Service League are localizing their efforts to help
deal with problem hunger and homelessness through this
week’s Thanksgiving Turkeypalooza and Hunger and

Homelessness Week.

“The goal is to ensure each of our clients gets to enjoy
a Thanksgiving meal,” said Jenny Davidson, coordinator

of student service-leaming.

The Turkeypalooza is a national program for all Cam-
pus Kitchens. The W&L group will bring Thanksgiving
meals to local clients including Glasgow Concerned Citi-
zens, Habitat for Humanity homeowners, Magnolia Cen-
ter, Rockbridge Area Occupational Center, the Manor at
Natural Bridge and the Lexington Ofﬁce on Youth.

These Thanksgiving meals include individual meals
for homeowners as well as congregation meals, where the
Campus Kitchen volunteers are able to enjoy a mealwith

their clients and their clients’ families.

“My favorite part of Turkeypalooza is meeting some

Yadlin said a lot of extra volunteer shifts have been
added for the Turkeypalooza, in order for people to get
a chance to work with the Campus Kitchen.

“These meals mean a lot to the people...it is

good to step back [and volunteer] and take a bet-

ter look at the bigger picture,” said Yadlin. The
Turkeypalooza can be a “very minimal time . »

commitment, but very rewarding," added

Yadlin.

lin.

Because the Nabors Service League’s
Hunger and Homelessness Week is also  ' _ ‘
this week, students will be able to learn I ‘ I I
about the speciﬁc problems with pov- I ,
erty in Rockbridge County and then :3 I
make a difference by participating in‘  t
the Turkeypalooza, according to Yad-  -

 

This year, Yadlin said, “We are try- I if ' I
ing to make [Hunger and Homeless- ”

amvus

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

ofthe families of our clients. At both the Magnolia Center
and the Office on Youth, families are invited to the event,
and it is great to extend the relationships we’ve already
developed with clients to their families,” said Davidson.

Senior Shiri Yadlin, coordinator of campus outreach,
said a central part of Thanksgiving is the abundance of
food that most families share and “that this is not a reality
for some people.”

The ﬁrst event for the Turkeypalooza was Bring Your
Turkey to Work Day last Friday. Turkeys were collected
from students and faculty members on the parking deck.

For the remainder of this week, students interested
in getting involved can sign up for cooking and delivery
shifts on the Campus Kitchens website.

“Turkeypalooza is our big Thanksgiving push. Each
year it might look slightly different, but in general the
structure remains the same year to year,” said Davidson.

ness Week] locally focused [because] 
it is a really serious problem in Rock- ":4
bridge County.” She said that there are '
about 35 homeless people living in the
Rockbridge County Area, over 100 houses
with no indoor plumbing as well as
many overcrowded homes.

The schedule for Hunger and
Homelessness Week includes an ad-
vocacy event Monday, a panel on home- less-
ness, housing and security in Rockbridge Coun-
ty on Tuesday, a documentary about hunger issues on’
Wednesday and a ﬁnal campout on Canaan Green on
Thursday “to experience what it is like to be home-
less,” Yadlin said.

    
 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 

NOV 2 1 2011

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011

news

 

Winkler warns of technology

Bloomberg editor—in—chief addresses the 52nd ethics institute; technology is good he says, as long as its not a crutch

By Logan Nardo
STAFF wmrea

Technology is good for the joumal-
ism industry as long as it doesn’t become
a crutch, says Matt Winkler, Editor-in-
Chief of Bloomberg News.

Winkler delivered this message dur-
ing his keynote address, titled “Truth in
the Age ofTwitter_,” during the ﬁfty-sec-
ond Journalism Ethics Institute Friday,
Nov. 11 in Stackhouse Theater.

Winkler’s speech centered on the ac-
tions he has taken at Bloomberg News
to be sure the business does not publish
any inaccurate stories. For Winkler, the
focus on accuracy at Bloomberg cannot

falter because they serve “those with the

_ most at stake.” Bloomberg news gives

many Wall Street brokers the latest ﬁ-
nancial news from around the world.

According to Winkler, Bloomberg fo-
cuses on the ﬁve “F’s.” Being the most
factual word is ﬁrst, but they also must
have the ﬁrst word, the fastest word, the
ﬁnal word and the future word.

“I don’t think any news organiza-
tion today can succeed without the ﬁve,
‘F’s,’” said Winkler. “I don’t think it’s
possible.”

Winkler said that he knows they can-

not always have the absolute ﬁrst word,
or the absolute deepest coverage, but
they are the best at always doing all ﬁve
well.

Winkler says Bloomberg has “report-
ers operating in... a very traditional way
when doing the best journalism as we
know it is actually enhanced by technol-
ogy, not diminished by it.” ,

There was a time, Winkler said, when
anything published was factually veri-
ﬁed, edited and ﬁnally released to the
public. Now, he says, that time is passed.

Today, people can publish their every

thought on a matter online. He referred
to today’s media as a “freefall of sponta-
neous expression.” Anyone can publish
anything they want and it is accessible
to the globe.

Ed Wasserman, Washington and
Lee’s Knight professor of ethics called
Bloomberg to be a bright spotin the
journalism industry.

“At a time when the news busi-
ness has splintered into various mutant
forms mixing celebrity gossip, opinion,
crowd based aggregation, thinly sourced
reports of indeterminate reliability,

Bloomberg under Matthew Winkler has
ﬁercely insisted on standards of accura-
cy and reliability that are the strictest in
the industry,” said Wasserman,

Winkler closed his speech with a sim-
ple quote from Mark Twain "‘A lie will
travel halfway around the world before
the truth laces its shoes.” According to
Winkler, Bloomberg is doing its best to
counter that.

Students learn to network

Career services holds program for mulitcultural students, as part of an eﬂort intiated by

By Drew Carlos
STAFF wmrea

Networking is beneﬁcial to all stu-
dents, but the key is to know how to do
it right. On Saturday, Career Services
offered a program to teach students just
that.

The ﬁrst ofﬁcial “Building Profes-
sional Networks: Connecting Washing-
ton and Lee’s Multicultural Alumni and
Students” was held Saturday Nov. 12.
The program was aimed at the multicul-
tural sector of W&L.

Beverly Lorig, director of Career
Services, called the program a “joy” to
plan. Everything began, she said, with a

conversation with alumni Mike Webb,
who wanted to make this event happen.
Webb, Lorig said, was the main person
who helped in “keeping this event alive.”

William Toles, ’92, gave the keynote
address. His speech focused on maxi-
mizing the W&L experience.

He said even though going to W&L is
a sacriﬁce, there are plenty of opportuni-
ties to make the place special, because,
Toles said, it is a special place.

Toles advised students to get involved
on campus, reach out to alumni and help
with student recruitment. By doing all

of these things, Toles said, students can
maximize their time on campus and get
involved more. “To get involved, get in-
volved,” Toles said.

After Toles’s speech, Dean Sydney
Evans talked about why students don’t
network. She said networking is not
normally perceived as a good thing,
which should not be the case. The only
thing students need to do is to get coin-
fonable with it, she said.

Dean Tammy Futrell said alumni are
here and want to contribute and help
students, but students have to put forth

the effort.

Lorig talked about the importance
of using the phone. In an age where ev-
ery form of communication is through
email, Twitter, Facebook and text mes-
saging, the current generation does not
necessarily use the phone to their advan-
tage, but Lorig said the purpose of the
program is to help the students develop
these skills. She told the students, and
the alumni agreed, you have to use the
phone to reach out.

After the keynote speaker, the stu-
dents broke off into groups focused on

alum Alike Webb

certain topics so they could have a one-
on-one conversation with the alumni and
ask them questions. The students were
given a choice to attend two breakout
sessions in the ﬁelds of Legal, Business,
Communications/Media, and Education/
Non-proﬁt/Healthcare.

President Ken Ruscio called it a
“great event” that allows students to
see how those who came before have
weighed the choices all undergraduate
students are about to face.

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14,2011

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

opinions

  . Reﬂections on the Real Madrid

Columnist Francesca Wilson describes how gender relations in Spain compare to those at W&L

 

1 During my
second week-
end in Spain, I
accompanied a
Spanish fam-
ily friend to a
posh soiree for
20-somethings
in Barrio Sala-
manca, Ma-
drid’s version of
the Upper East
Side. We ar-
rived around 11-
ll:30, Spanish
cocktail hour,
and I noticed upon my entry into the
apartment that there were no other girls.
There, surrounded by upwards of
20 “pijos” (yes, there’s a Spanish word
for preppy), decked out in their mono-
grammed Ralph Lauren oxfords and
Tod’s drivers, I acted as any well-adjust-

I

 

ByFianoe9:a'M
CULUHHIST

ed female abroad would: I politely prac-
ticed my espaﬁol while explaining why I
had decided to study abroad in Madrid. I
sat, perched on a settee for an hour chat-
tingaway (it was as ifthey’d never seen
blonde highlights), before any glamor-
ous “pijas” entered the apartment.

Immediately, the girls took up resi-
dence on the far end of the living room
and formed a tight little circle ofjust fe-
males. It was as if the girls were there
to be marveled from afar, like beauti-
ful, distant objects. And, for an hour or
so the group proceeded in this polarized
manner. I, of course, sat, thoroughly en-
tertained, feeling both fascinated and a
little bit like an international harlot from
all the quizzical stares I was receiving
from across the room.

Once the boys’ “gyntonics” ﬁnally
set in, they embarked on their mission
to conquer the seemingly impenetrable
wall of females. With signiﬁcant effort

and some crouching next to the girls, the
males began to break into the females’
circle. By the time my amusement had
turned to boredom, the “pijos” and “pi-
jas” were ﬁnally interacting.

It goes without saying that Washing-

“Patriarchal,” and quite honestly,
“parochial,” are possibly the best words
to describe the Spanish upper-middle
class of Madrid. Within this small, close-
knit society Catholicism and conserva-
tism reign supreme and given this envi-

In my time at Washington and Lee, I have never wit-

nessed such awkward tension between the sexes as I

did during my ﬁrst “pijo ” gathering.

ton and Lee has gender relations issues.
As a (relatively) newly co-educational
institution, it will still be many years
before the undertones of the “Good Old
Boy” that subtly persist will truly be cast
aside. Nevertheless, in my time at W&L,
I have never witnessed such awkward
tension between the sexes as I did during
my ﬁrst “pijo” gathering.

ronment, it is no surprise that the young
women of this society are hesitant to in-
teract with males. If girls are too forward
they are ridiculed through malicious gos-
sip that spreads within their social circle
thus sullying their reputation. . .how me-
dieval.

A few weeks ago, I was sipping on
a delicious “gyntonic” and chatting with

a “pijo” acquaintance when he conﬁded
in me that he doesn’t have any female
friends. For example, the concept of
going to get lunch with a girl that he
doesn’t have any romantic interest in is
practically ludicrous. In his world, boys
hang out with boys and girls hang out
with girls and they only mix in semi-
formal social gatherings. It was in this
conversation that I realized how much
I appreciate the male friends I’ve made
at W&L. Although, I despise certain
fraternity traditions, I feel that genuine
and equal friendships between men and
women can exist on our campus. While
I adore Spain for all of its beauty, I ﬁnd
myself continuously irked by the patri-
archal nature of the society. I am look-
ing forward to returning to a culture in
which women command a presence that
extends beyond physical beauty and ro-
mantic possibility.

Interested in dancing like a star?

Looking to impress that special someone at formal ? Columnist Brandyn Churc

For the past
two weeks,
students and
professors
alike have
been brush-
ing up on their
dance skills
in preparation
for last Sat-
urday’s Gala.
The recently
formed W&L
Ballroom,
coordinated
with profes-
sional dancer Edwin O. Roa, offered two
Swing workshops before the big night.
The workshops, which were held in the
Doremus Dance Studio, drew an average
of 25 participants each lesson. Partici-
pants learned a variety of basic steps and
styles; ranging from the Charleston to
Single-time and Triple-time Swing.

As the founder of W&L Ballroom, I
will now take this time to shamelessly
promote my club. I had been dancing for
a little over four years when I arrived at
W&L freshman year. There is not a huge

   

Byﬁrandyn Churchill
cutumusr

ballroom/social dancing community in
Lexington (hopefully that will change
soon), so I soon came into contact with
Dr. Melina Bell. While attending law
school at Boston University, Dr. Bell
started taking ballroom lessons; She then
proceeded to compete on the ballroom
teams at Tufts University and the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, while working
on her masters and PhD. After hearing

her stories about dancing in college, I —

decided that this was an experience that
could add value to any W&L student’s
college career. After a year of tossing
the idea around, I asked Dr. Bell if she
would serve as the club’s adviser, to
which she agreed.

Dancing is a fun activity and a life
skill. How often have you heard’ some-
one worry about not being able to dance?
I regularly receive requests, before for-
mals and other events, asking for a crash
course in “how to dance well enough that
I don’t look like an idiot in front of my
date.” The purpose of W&L Ballroom is
to develop and promote a social danc-
ing community at W&L. Social dancing
and ballroom dancing are very similar;
they tend to draw on the same moves and

styles. However, ballroom dancing tends
to imply a choreographed routine per-
formed at a competition (think “Dancing
with the Stars”), whereas social dancing
is what an individual would do if one
went out to a Salsa club. Social dancing
has room for ﬂexibility and expression,
in that there are no patterns or routines.
While we are certainly open to the idea
of competing, if students are interested,
the immediate goal is to get students ac-
quainted with theidea of partner danc-
ing.

We are fortunate because as we de-
cided to form the group we discovered
that Lexington has a professional ball-
room dancer in town two days a week.
Edwin O. Roa was born in Bogota, Co-
lumbia, and grew up experiencing the
nightclub scene. For the last seventeen
years, Roa has been formally study-
ing social and ballroom dance, and has
traveled across continents to further his
knowledge of partner dancing. Having
held a Salsa workshop for the Depart-
ment of Romance Languages, Roa was
thrilled with the opportunity to offer
additional workshops at W&L. As we
continue, throughout the year, Roa will

 

W&L students learn how to dance before Moc Con

serve as our primary instructor.
Currently, we are ﬁnishing our se-
ries on Swing and strongly encourage
anyone with a mild interest to come to
the remaining workshops. They will be
held on November 15th and December

hill invites you to join W&L Ballroom

   

BRANDYN CHURCHILL

6th and will take place in the Doremus
Dance Studio. The instructional hour
is from 8pm-9pm and an hour of open
dancing follows. Cost $5 per person.
For more information, contact me at
churchillbl4@mail.wlu.edu.

Infant Legislators Debate Abortion

Interested in Barack Obaby is thoughts on abortion? Take a look at Columnist JP Beall s satirical spin on the debate

Despite sig-
niﬁcant pro-life
_forces among
constituencies
between one
and three tri-
mesters, a bill
has passed the
infant House of
Representatives
this last week
in support of
parental abor-
tion, marking a
signiﬁcant shift
leftward in baby

 

ByJohn Paiulﬂe-all
cmuumsr

government policy.

Debate became heated while the bill
was in utero, resulting in tears, squirm-
ing and occasional kicking between op-
posing sides ofthe fallopian tube parties.
The leftist Crybaby Party was divided
between more radical Screamers, and
moderate Blue Puppies.

Screamers, like California Embryon-
ic Rep. Maxine Vitro-Waters, argued that
it is a sacred constitutional right for an
infant to abort his or her parents should
he not be ready to interact with them, es-
pecially since the mother is biologically
proven to be a part of an infant’s body
and shares blood and nutrition.

Blue Puppies like “Fighting-Joe”

or life of the infant, the infant has a right
to a parental abortion. Baby representa-
tives cited cases of drug abuse during
pregnancy, and whether said parents
were considering taking on an abortion
themselves.

Polls showed that more liberal babies
tended to come from more liberal con-
stituent parents, while conservatives al-

Conservative senatorial tykes threatened to ﬁlibus-

ter. A leak poses the possibility that diapers may be

involved

Baby-Baca, also of California, acknowl-
edged that although infant science has
yet to ‘prove at what point parents feel
pain (since some studies show that moth-
ers respond to fetal movements), should
the parent become a danger to the health

most always came from aconsewative
parental district.

Conservative Neonatal-cons and the
Religious Right opposed such measures,
blaming biotech lobbyists, hungry for
harvestable stem cells, for inﬂuencing

their fetal opponents from across the am-
niotic sack. Conservatives maintain that
a parent’s right to life is sacred from the
moment of fertilization, and that this is-
sue would not be considered, if parents
were not disenfranchised demographics
in infant Congress. Neonatal-con Fox
News journalist and former Presidential
candidate, Mike Huckababy, publically
denounced the bill.

Other measures discussed during
debate were whether or not the same
rights applied should a child decide to
euthanize aged parents regardless of
health, dubbed “Pull the Plug on Par-
ents Clause.” Another measure, called
the “Deadbeat Dad Clause” would allow
an egg, while still in the ovary, to inﬂu-
ence eugenic thought in their mother.
Yet much milk drinking between par-
ties formed a consensus, and these items
were tabled until alter birth and elemen-
tary schooling.

The ﬁnal legislative obstacle is the

Tiny-Tot Senate, where the bill could
go either way because of a tenuous lib-
eral majority with a large faction of Blue
Puppies. President Barack Obaby has
come out in favor of parental abortion
reform, brieﬂy holding a press confer-
ence and then quickly returning to ﬂying
around the country holding high-dollar
fundraising dinners.

Neonatal opposition is gearing up for
the ﬁght. Conservative senatorial tykes
threatened to ﬁlibuster. A leak poses the
possibility that diapers may be involved.
On top of this, conservative govemesses
have established a coalition to bring the
law before the infant Supreme Court,
where Ruth Baby-Ginsberg is the only
staunch proponent of the bill. If the bill
is nurtured successfully, the new Paren-
tal Abortion Act (Jr.) will be due some-
time next month.

Testing Tebowing: does it really work?

Columnist Sally Platt describes Tim Tebow is famous practice, “Tebowing, ” and her experience tryingit at W&L

Tim Tebow
can never be the
President of the
United States.
He was born in
the Philippines.
Luckily, he
probably never
. wants to be.
Being the quar-
V terback of the
Denver Broncos
is a lot more
fun than having
to run a big old
country like the
United States and worry about nasty

   

5?‘

BySal|yPlatt
cnLuumsr

subjects like a bad economy.

Tebow, as an NFL quarterback, cer-
tainly doesn’t have to worry about his
own economy. His multi-million dol-
lar contract takes care of that. Yet while
many would probably choose to spend
this wealth indulging every minute of
their free time purchasing the perfect
cars, houses, vacations, yachts, and
trophy wife (s?), Tim Tebow has a dif-
ferent mission. He is out to evangelize
the world. No, really. Tebow, the son
of strict evangelical missionaries who
homeschooled him through high school,
takes his Christian faith to a whole new
level. He may play professional football,
but off time he visits prisons,» goes on

missionary trips to the Phillipines and
prays.

Tim Tebow is famous for his praying,
especially when he prays and in what
position he prays. He is famous for get-
ting down on one knee, ﬁst on forehead,
and praying at the most inoportunte mo-
ments (aka, during crucial periods of a
football game). During the overtime of
the Broncos improbable win against the
Dolphins, while all his fellow players
were freaking out, Tebow was “Tebow-
ing.” That is the official name that has
been given to this action. It has sparked
quite a following. Originally started by
teenager Jared Kleinstein with a picture
posted on Facebook, it has grown into a

franchise. There is the official website,
where fans can post pictures of them-
selves “Tebowing” (the toddler and dog
pictures are especially epic), T-Shirts,
XouTube videos, and much more. It’s
like planking, but way cooler.

This led me to try it. As if my life
weren’t interesting enough as it is, I de-
cided it was time to embarass myself.
I tried it ﬁrst in the Coop. Sitting with
people around a table, I suddenly got
down on one knee ---and then realized:
I didn’t know how long you were sup-
posed to “Tebow.” I decided one second
was enough and quickly got back up to
explain to my friends that I was not, in-
deed, crazy.

Next I tried somewhere a little more
adventerous. Wednesday night. The cab-
ins. Middle of the dance ﬂoor. This was a
bit of a fail, as everyone simply thought
I had drunk too much and --- slipped or
something? Oh well, still counts.

Suffice to say, Tebowing is fun.
No matter what you think of the guy,
whether a freak, a weirdo homeschooler,
an overrated quarterback, or all of the
above, you have to admit he spices up
the NFL. So if you feel inspired, snap
a pic and post it to tebowingcom. And
who knows, maybe one day soon Pres-
Pres Obama will appear on there too ---
Tebowing along with the best of them.

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

  opinions

I Learning through
French cinema

     

In this world, we all are mirrors and reﬁections——of each
other, ofeverything. This concept may be agonizingly pain-
ful to accept, but this anguish is crucial to endure and cin-
brace for the sake of self-growth. Three months ago, I un-

covered an image ofinyselfthat was capable ofravaging my

 

entire essence. Because of this image, I became committed
to a path which demands that I explore, practice and reﬁne
my personal truths in order to become authentic. I found this

 

piece ofmy soul within the French ﬁlm “Tous les Matins du

 

Monde,” speciﬁcally within the character of Mann Marais.
This movie involves a story which contrasts the choices
ofa famous commercial musician, Mann Marais, with those

  
  
  

of his reeiusive nienton Monsieur de Sainte Coioinhe__hoth be honest, if you’re China but you don’t know how to turn your try bus at the quad, walking to the library, I.
involved in the nth eentury Freneh nonuiar inusie seene_ trying to avoid see- phone on silent? I ﬁnd this hard to believe. and taking the elevator down to the 4th ﬂoor

_whi|e describing Mnrnisa ‘iourney from inusieian to true mg someone, the li- The dude who wants everyone to rather than facingta drunken stumble down

artist. Sainte—Colombe lives quietly with his music, until By Campbeﬂ Bu" brary IS not the place know he’s stressed out— We get it, you’re Lex1ngton’s version of “The Exorcist”

a young Marais appears at his door’ heggiiig for vioi ies_ opmmus Euirag to go. Everyone who stressed out...and you want attention. stairs. This may not be as scary as it is for

sons. He nityingh, deeides to take Marais int and the iessons danced with you, hit Screaming the f-word and smacking the the sober studiers because with your level of

i_,eein_ Marais iearns__in then his ski“ beeoines t~oriniduhie_ on you, and ﬁlled your cup will be studying table is one way to get it, I guess. intoxication, you may think a bearded man

_bJt he is too young to understand the niusiet too inexne_ I next to you. The big dipper- It’s okay, that water lying on acouch in the comer is ahallucina-

rieneed to seareh for rneanind within it, too tvearr~ui to thee Here are some scenarios to which every bottle of murky brown liquid doesn’t gross tion.

e-the iaek ofeternit)/_v too ignorant to reeognize the pain oi‘ W&L student can relate. We’ve all pulled me out at all. Wish the custodial staff good morn-
eXistenee_ And so, he hears only the ehords whieh serve his that all-mghter, sat next to the person who The sick one——Cough, cough. Ew, cover ing-—

ainbition, he sees only the gold which his gift will providc_ is oblivious to how noisy she is, and felt your mouth or I will force you to wear a You wake up to the sound ofa vacuum, t.

Colombe, disgusted with Marais’ motives, rejects him, re-
fusing to further his musical education. Mann is soon hired

 

by the King’s Court, and becomes the most popular cellist of

  
 

    
 

saw light."

the l7th century. Yet, later, as a iniddle-aged man, he begins
to feel remorse for his previous actions and he scratches on
Sainte Colombe’s shed door in hopes of attaining “one last
lesson.” A poignant conversation ensues in which the master
attempts to convey to the popular musician the true meaning
I of music: “Music is a glass for the dead. A refreshment for

   
  
   
   

those who have run out of words. It is for lost childhood. It
is for the time before we were born, before we breathed or

Marais redeems himselfwith a last song laden with the voice
of experience and understanding. As he is playing, he has a
vision, in which his teacher, Coloinbe, appears to tell him,
“I am proud to have been your teacher. Please play for me.”

With these words, with these scenes, with this message,
this ﬁlm has pushed me into undergoing an excruciatingly
desperate process—but one with a luminous conclusion: an
elevation of self. Like Marais, I have played the chords of
life as a person ignorant of their meaning~but I was only
able to appreciate this by realizing that my essence was mir-
rored in Mann Marais’. I was reflected in Marais’ shameless
actions--his shallow intentions in playing music, his hollow

I The ﬁlm then shifts to a later time, in which the dying

  
  

lating reasons for commercializing his talents. I therefore
allowed this ﬁlm to become my o\vn “Sainte Colombe,”
and have embarked on ajourney to become an artist of my
destiny in order to attain ultimate redemption; and to begin
proverbially playing life‘s chords, not for personal gain or
for ambition, but in order to allow myself an expanded per-
spective of synchronicity with the world. I have thus real-
ized that we are all connected, we are all mirrors, we are
all reﬂected within each other

furthered my connection with my surroundings. And I hope,
when I reach my end, that I will experience the knowledge
that a master ofhis own life will look to mine and say to me,
“I am proud...Please play for me."

 

because ofthis ﬁlm, I have

By Andrea Siso

Why do

  

I achievements and successes as a popular cellist, his calcu-

THE

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF CARTOONIST
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

 PHI.

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
JAYNA JOHNS

NEIL HAGGERTY
ERIN SCHWARTZ
JOHN PAUL BEALL
JAMES BIEMILLER
DREW CARLOS
BRANDYN CHURCHILL
CYNTHIA LAM
LOGAN NARDO
DESSIE OTACHLYSKA
SALLY PLATT
ANDREA SISO
ALLIE WEISS
ANGELA WILLIAMS
FRANCESCA WILSON
JULIANNA SATTERLY
GREG USSERY

MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RlNG~TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.TI-IE RlNG—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of

libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011

It
At W&L, you

spend 20 percent of
your time in class,
10 percent of your
time in bed, 10 per-
cent of your time in
a dining hall, and 60
percent of your time
in the library. Let’s

 

stressed. Here is a list of the types of people
who may distract you and what you may
ﬁnd yourself doing when work takes you
longer than expected.

People who may distract you:

Your crush-

There is nothing more distracting than
having the boy you like sit next to you when
you have a lot of work. You will probably
be consumed by how your proﬁle looks, or
how adorable it is that he tears up when he
reads “Romeo and Juliet.” We all struggle
with this.

There are a couple of scenarios that can
happen that will make the experience worse.

Scenario: He walks in when you are eat-
ing something that cannot be eaten graceful-
ly, such as a banana. Even Kate Middleton
could not chew a banana without it sound-
ing disgusting.

Scenario: You have a cold and are either
snifﬂing or blowing your nose the entire
time. Who wants to make out with someone
who is sick? Ew, not I.

Scenario: Your friend walks up and with-
out realizing that said crush is sitting next

- to you, says, “Well I saw you ﬂirting with

[crush’s name] last night. I know you two
will totally hook soon!” Urr.

The girl who can’t take hints—

Sometimes I think that there is a sign on
my back that says, “If you want to complain
about work or talk about nothing, talk to
me.” My study spot is the Mecca for fraz-
zled students.

You probably have had a few run-ins
with these creatures; the ones who spend
their nights moving from one innocent
victim to the nexticomplaining about how
much they have to do. If only they were as
good at doing work as they were choosing
people who want to hear about their prob-

lems the least, they may get something ac-»

complished.

The two nerds attempting to ﬂirt—

Resist the opportunity to offer advice to
the challenged individuals. It can sometimes
take a lot of will power not to say, “Girl,
stop cracking your knuckles and yawning
when you have nothing to say. Boy, stop
avoiding eye contact and saying ‘frat.’ You
sound like a tool.”

If only I could do this, the couple may
decide to spend time together somewhere
other than the library. And then, I could fo-
cus again.

The ice chewer- I can’t think ofa more
obnoxious sound. Tell the iron-deﬁcient
cruncher to pipe down.

Mr. Hungry- We all love the smell of

specialty fries, except for when we can’t eat
them! Unless you are willing to share, keep
the fries at Co-op. Studies show that eating
while you work will cause you to consume
more.

The texter who refuses to turn off his
volume- Beep, beep beep- beep, beep...
ding ding---really? Really? You know how
to play chess with your best friend from

SARS mask and plastic gloves.

The person who listens to headphones
with the volume on the highest level——
Want to listen to a little T-Pain? Hah, you
have no choice. I don’t know how “Chopped
and Screwed” is a good study song, but ap-
parently it is.

Thanks to these people, your work

Lex and the Library

es it take you so long to finish the simplest assignments? Take a 00

go to the school was not scary enough...

You take a creaky elevator ride to the de-
serted fourth ﬂoor dungeon and swear you
hear a Leybum ghost from behind a shelf.
Your heart isbeating louder than the late-
night rap they play in Co-op.

This may also apply to you Woods Creek
residents on your way home at night. You
may prefer getting off of the Traveler coun-

shake your head and realize that you are not
in your bed; your head is on a keyboard and
you are drooling across your books. Your
dying phone reads 4 a.m. What? 4 a.m.? So
much for a ten minute snooze! You have
ﬁve hours to ﬁnish your project, which
would seem doable if you were not com-
pletely delirious.

You probably have had a few run-ins with these creatures—

the ones who spend their nights moving from one innocent

victim to the next complaining about how much they have to

do

may take longer than planned. The re-

sults? Later nights and extra stress."

These may cause you to:

Burst into tears——

Boys, don’t pretend this doesn’t happen
to you. Eveniyou tough guys who claim they
will never shed a tear about anything school-
related after going through pledgeship have
experienced that moment of panic when it
feels like your life is spirally out of control.
This may happen 30 minutes before class
when you learn the project worth half your
grade is due, or when you check your Sakai
Gradebook and learn that you received a C
on the paper you skipped formal to ﬁnish.

The tears well up and before you know it,
there are two waterfalls coming from your
eyes—tears of panic, frustration, and every-
thing else you have been holding in. Even
that ounce of anger towards the clumsy oaf
who stepped on your Sperry Saturday night
may spill out. You head to the bathroom to
blow your nose and ‘wipe the eye make-up
from under your eyes.

“Do I look okay?” you ask that friend
who you know will tell the truth.

“If Rudolph with a black eye on crack is
‘okay,’ then I guess,” she responds. Oh well.

Make scary late night trips to the 4th
ﬂoor-

You are in the library on a Saturday night
because you have a paper due on Sunday at
5 p.m. Why teachers make this a deadline, I
do not know. You’re on Annie, the library’s
search engine, trying to prove to your teach-
er that your generation does not depend on
Wikipedia and the intemet for all of its an-
swers. A quick Annie search reveals that the
one book you need for your paper is...on the
fourth ﬂoor. As if studying on the main ﬂoor
alone with a bunch of kids you swear do not

_ .

Then, a member of the custodial staff
appears, a kind older man who resembles
a white—haired version of Frankie Avalon
when he sings “Beauty School Drop Out”
in “Grease.” He gives you the kindest smile
you’ve ever seen in your life and for a sec-
ond, you feel optimistic that you will ﬁnish
your work. I

You decide that a dwarf-sized serving of
caffeine is just what the doctor ordered. You
head up to the Book Nook and help yourself
to a 5Q-cent cup of tea that is way too small
to satisfy a normal-sized human being.
After downing it in a gulp, you buy some
overpriced Swedish Fish from the vending
machine (thank you swipe card fee), type a
couple of words, and let the vacuum lull you
back to sleep. Well, so much for that paper.
Worst Case scenario: your teacher mistakes
your paper for the fourth grader’s he tu-
tors...big deal. ,

Soak your hands in sanitizer to recov-
er from a study sesh in a ﬁshbowl-

As nice as it is to have your own space
and silence, ﬁshbowls on the 2nd, 3rd and
4th ﬂoors freak me out a bit. They remind
me of McDonald’s PlayPlaces; they smell
questionable, seem germy, but are made
off to be sanitary. I’ve heard tales of people
hooking up in them, so I avoid the ones with
small windows at all costs.

Even though library distractions some-
times result in wasted time and last-minute
stress, they make studying a lot more enter-
taining. I mean, would you really want to go
to the library if no one was there? (If yes,
check out Leybum on a Wednesday night).
So next time you think that going to the li-
brary will allow you ﬁve undisturbed hours
of work, think again.

    

/.:'in.1-ii»-I’*-Niliuwi

  

£30-Mrfxr--I-.+ 1'-'3. Ila:
lit e i, ..,._,.,'~rl-~,i'$..,v.I"I....

   
 

UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

GREG USSERY/ staff cartoonist

 

v

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14,2011

 

S - THE RING-TUM PHI-

arts&|ife

Mock C

on Gala right on!

The event marks the halfway point between Spring Kick— ]? and the actual Mock Convention in February

By Neil Haggerty
copv EDITOR

Students danced the night away this
Saturday at the Mock Convention’s
Presidential Gala. It only happens every
four years; once in every Washington
and Lee student’s college experience.

With about 1,700 students participat-
ing in this event, the Presidential Gala
brought all parties together for a night to
remember.

According to social committee chair
Victoria Mercer in a promotional video

for the Gala, “The Presidential Gala is
sort of a spin-off of the Presidential In-
augural Ball. It sort of marks the half-
way point between Spring Kick-Off and
the actual Mock Convention in Febru-
ary.”

“It’s primarily a fundraising event,
on the scale of Fancy Dress, designed
to bring the undergraduate and law stu-
dents, faculty, alumni parents and lead-
ers of the Lexington community togeth-

er,” said Kelli Jarrell, Mock Convention
Communications Chair.

After many state delegations joined
together at parties in preparation for the
Gala, students came together and wore
formal attire in black ties and cowboy
boots, an idea sparked by the theme of
George W. Bush’s Inaugural Ball.

The full package for this election’s
Gala included tickets for t-shirts, tervis
tumblers, stemless wine glasses, a low-

ball cocktail glass, and a cork screw all
in theme of W&L’s Republican Mock
Convention. For students ages 21 and
over, there was a beer and wine garden
addition at the Gala.

In the promotional video, Tricia
King, the general chair of Mock Con,
said that she is excited for all of the
students involved in the convention to
“own the convention as their own,” since
participation in the event has increased

from the 150 students involved in Mock
Con at the time of Spring Kickoff.

“Spring Kickoff did a great job of
bringing the students body together with
the leaders of the Lexington Community
and Fancy Dress is a rare opportunity to
interact with professors outside of the
classroom. The Gala serves both these
purposes and since it only happens once
every four years, you know we’re going
to do it big,” said Jarrell.

Registration and WebAdVisor woes

Many students woke up early to beat the 7 a. m.

By Cynthia Lam
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Just like cramming for midterrns and
gaining the Freshman 15, registering for
courses is one of the many rites of pas-
sage every W&L student experiences.
For some people, however, the stress of
securing the perfect schedule is nearly as
nerve-wracking as getting a date for the
Presidential Gala.

Winter course registration ofﬁcially
opened at seven a.m. on Nov. 1, allowing
students to select two classes for the up-
coming terrn, with staggered dates giv-
ing special preference to upperclassmen.
While this system generally worked for
seniors, juniors, and sophomores, it gen-
erated feelings of anxiety and concern
among many freshmen.

“My main worry was that most of

. level

the classes I wanted would be full either
because most of the upperclassman had
taken it, or they had, like, three spots or
less left,” said ﬁrst-year Julia Lang. “It
was like a race, two of my hall mates ac-
tually went to the library at 6:30 a.m. to
make sure that they would have a good
intemet connection, because that one
second can make all the difference.”

The competition for introductory-
classes was especially ﬁerce
among science majors and students on
the pre-med track.

Said ﬁrst-year Grace Lee: “There
were very, very few spots for the entire
Chemistry ll2 section, and all the stu-
dents were trying to get in at the same
time. Like everyone else, I woke up half

an hour before registration happened,
because I knew that it was the only
hope of getting the two classes I wanted.
Even though I clicked “register”.at 7 am,
I didn’t get into either of them. It was
really concerning that I didn’t get into a
chemistry class, because I want to be a
biochemistry major.”

This conﬂict was resolved later that
morning, however, when the department
head sent an email to all the Chemistry
lll students, explaining that they had
reserved spaces for current students and
they were committed to ﬁnding a spot
for everyone in Chemistry 112.

“It all worked out,” said Lee.

Other freshmen experienced simi-
larly stressful situations, often due to

unforeseen consequences.

Said ﬁrst-year Matthew Moore, “I
timed it down on the atomic clock that
I had pulled up, so I waited until it was
6:59 am and 58 seconds, and then I
pressed “register” at what I thought was
exactly 7 o’clock, but I realized I had a
business oﬁice hold because my mom
hadn’t paid off my $40 swipe home.”

“My heart just dropped,” added
Moore. “I had to wait until it opened at
8:00 am, call them, have the hold lifted,
and then I registered for what was left.”

“I feel like it was better when we
all had different times to register, just
because it wasn’t a mad rush of people
all trying to register at the same time,”
said Lang. “WebAdvisor is a good thing;

deadline and struggled securing the few slots in primetime class times

there’s just some technical diﬁiculties
that need to be worked out.”

Under the old system, registration
times used to be staggered for each stu-
dent. *

According to sophomore Kelsey Mc-
Clary, course registration becomes less
stressful once students declare their ma-
jor.

“As a freshman, you have to ﬁnish
the rest of your FDRS, but once you
know what you want to do, you can actu-
ally focus on the classes you want,” said
McClary. “I think that this is the fairest
way to do it; I can’t think of a system
that would be more successful for every-
one to use.”

College Dems and Republicans go head-to-head

Mock Con sponsors a debate between the two politically motivated clubs, debaters will cover taxes, jobs and other issues

By James Biemiller
STA F F wn ITE R

Mock Convention 2012 will spon-
sor a debate between the W&L College
Democrats and College Republicans this
Thursday, Nov. 17 at 7 p.m. in Lee Cha-
pel.

Each team will consist of four mem-
bers. Half of the debate will feature pre-

« pared answers to questions distributed

beforehand to the teams. The other half
will be open for audience members to
ask questions of the teams.

Republican debate team members
include Tyler Grant, Tim McAleenan

Jr., Connor Perkins and Matt Simpson.
Democratic debate team members are
Robbie Day, Leah Gose, Zain Raza and
Todd Smith-Schoenwalder

Issues to be debated include taxes,
deﬁcit reduction, education, jobs, im-
migration, energy, and national security.

“It’s going to be both extremely in-
formative and entertaining. There are
some excellent individuals on both sides
of the debate who will make it fun while
providing insight on the ideologies and
policy perspectives of their respective

party,” said Perkins.

Team members have been preparing
their best arguments for weeks.

‘‘I read three newspapers a day,” said
Gose. “I’ve been trying to become a
little more well-read in the going—ons of
the House and Senate. I know the party
platform well, but I’ve been trying to
learn more about what’s going on in the
now, not the 2012.”

Both sides are conﬁdent in their abili-
ties to defend their positions.

“I think each side is going to be ﬁr-

ing on all cylinders in an effort to outdo
the other, and in the end it will just come
down to who can best convey their views
and their reasoning for those views,”
said Perkins.

About the outcome of the debate,
Gose said “Conﬁdence is key but arro-
gance is a downfall. . .I expect both sides
to give good opinions.”

“It’s great that we can have debates
like this and that people are open to hear-
ing ideas that aren’t their own. It shows
a growing tolerance on campus,” added

Gose.

Both organizations hope to see a
strong turnout to support their debate
members and learn about current politi-
cal issues.

“We’re on the cusp of becoming in-
formed voters and this is a good chance
for'students to hear both side of the ar-
gument and see W&L students express
their opinions,” said Gose.

 
 
  
  

 

  Wa nt    rage?
   ow!

phi@w|u.edu  
spicakd1 2@mai|.w 
gancep13@maig

   
  
 
 
 

 

 

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011

sports

 

 
  

  The Generals Have Gone Amateur .

On December 15, 1958, Sports Illustrated ran a story on W&L ’s basketball program. In honor of the basketball
seasons beginning this week, the Phi decided to run it again.

Written by Jeremiah Tax

In the hoopla surrounding the open-
ing ofthe college basketball season last ,
week, little attention was focused on a
game played in a small gym in Lexing-
ton, Va. before an audience of only 500.
Even the ﬁnal score excited few people
outside the state of Virginia, though
probably the longest-odds team any-
where in the nation that night had appar-
ently put on a remarkable performance.
The team was Washington and Lee, the
first group of “amateur” Generals since
the school dropped athletic subsidiza-
tion in 1954. Last spring, the few re-
maining holders of athletic scholarships
had been graduated, and W&L, rich in
traditions going back to 1749, looked
apprehensively to its athletic fortunes.
As is often the case, an appreciation of
the past illuminates these current events.

George Washington still contributes
$12 toward the education of every stu-
dent at Washington and Lee. The money
comes from the earnings of 100 shares
of stock in the James River Naviga-
tion Company, which Washington gave
to the school, then called Liberty Hall
Academy, in 1796. Grateful trustees
promptly changed its name to Washing-
ton College. More than half a century
later, after General Robert E. Lee had
served as president, his name was added
and the school became a university.

Today, a statue of Washington,
carved out of a single pine
log and thickly crusted
with layers of white
paint, stands atop

W&L’s oldest build-
ing and faces, across
campus, the simple,
sedate ex- A terior of Lee
Chapel, ,  ‘ designed and
built it‘ by the gen-
eral also as a gift

to the school.

Inside the
‘_ chapeh
"9" where Lee

and his family
are buried, is
the famous re-
cumbent marble
statue of

Lee,

 

ﬂanked by Confederate battle ﬁags—
still the goal ofthousands of tourists.
For these and other visitors there
is much else to please the eye on this
picture-book campus tucked into’ a
hilly, wooded corner of Virginia’s lush
Shenandoah Valley. It is a friendly place;
the stranger is greeted warnily by stu-
dents and faculty alike as he strolls the
ancient brick walks~a custom which
once brought the school a million-dollar
endowment and a new gymnasium. In
the early 1920s, a tourist from the North
was so impressed with the courtesy
shown him that he willed this sum and
provisions for a ﬁne athletic plant.

MANY SCHOOLS Now BIGGER

If only because of age, W&L has ac-
quired its host of social and academic
traditions~not the least of which is
a record of sports rivalry with other
southern schools that goes back to the
origins of intercollegiate competition.
Many of these schools, the universi-
ties of Virginia, Tennessee and Ken-
tucky, for example, have long
since outgrown W&L in both
size and athletic prowess.
Lee Chapel will still ac-
commodate nearly the
whole student body

(all male and

‘ less
than

1,000),
and W&L has
never enlarged its

scope beyond that of encom-
passing the liberal arts. There came,
inevitably, that summer day in I954
when W&L’s trustees were forced _to
make a decision about athletic policy;
they did, and students, alumni and fac-
ulty have been debating it heatedly ever
since. The decision to drop subsidiza-
tion meant, simply, no more scholar-
ships and competition that would elimi-
nate most, if not all, traditional rivals
while including others closer to the size
and athletic ambitions of W&L. It will

  

be a few more
all sched-
ﬁect
this

years before
ules re-

  
 
 

search
for a

   
  
  
   
    
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  

new level,
but meanwhile insistent
voices and petitions

condemning the poli-
cy continue to bom-

bard W&L’s
trustees.
Dr. Wil-
liam M.
Hin- ton,
chair-
man of
W&L’s ath-

letic committee,
professor of psy-
chology and education,
a rabid and knowledge-
able sports fan, explains

the administration‘s position
thus: ‘‘I’m a W&L man myself,
class of ‘29, and l’vc been on the
campus practically ever since. No one
is prouder ofour athletic traditions. But
it had been apparent for years that we
could no longer compete on our past
level, except at serious cost both aca-
demically and financially. The compe-
tition for good athletes had grown to
the point where, if you wanted to play
in our league, you had to accept some
boys who were poor academic risks.
At the same time, you were subsidiz-
ing boys who were poor or average
students, and were unable to offer help
to top-grade students. Each year the
cost grew bigger. Football got all the
money it needed, and the minor sports
had to be content with splitting up the
rest, often less than enough for adequate
equipment. We can't draw large, paying
crowds from the Lexington area, so we
were playing away from home, putting

  
 

on a show for strangers instead of our
own people. Some friends of mine say
we ought to drop intercollegiate compe-
tition altogether. I can’t agree. I like to
see those good-looking, hard-nose boys
who want to play football and basketball
and lacrosse walking around our cam-
pus. They add something important to
your student body. And we’ll continue
to get them. This year 80 boys turned
out for football, more than ever before,
even under subsidization. And we darn
near beat Sewanee, a good single-
wing team. All we need is a few
wins in a few sports and this furor
will die down. When I was a stu-
dent, we were already having trouble
in football, but we had a ﬁne wrestling
team. And our attitude was—if we
couldn’t beat the Wahoos in football, we
could at least wring their necks.”

ALUMNI STILL PROTEST

These views have thus far failed to
win over a substantial number of inﬂu-
ential alumni groups and at least a ma-
jority ofthe undergraduates, all ofwhom
ﬁnd it hard to accept such names as Se-
wanee, Wittenberg and Centre on W&L
sports schedules. The prevailing view of
this opposition is that a limited number
of athletic scholarships would still en-
able the school to compete against the
Virginias, VPIs and Richmonds. Prob-
ably the trustees are the realists. Today,
no school that offers 20 athletic schol-
arships can compete successfully for
long with another that offers 100. This
involves nojudgment ofthe morality of
athletic scholarships but a recognition
of the open-market bidding for athletes
Ofall kinds.

Nevertheless, when the Generals
opened their basketball season last week
with the very ﬁrst all-amateur team, still
playing a Southern Conference sched-
ule, the overwhelming undergraduate
sentiment was that W&L’s athletic tra-
ditions were being disgraced and that
the players, disgruntled themselves,
would fail to arouse any school spirit.
True enough, the team, to a man, was in
favor of some program of athletic schol-

arships, especially (understandably) for
basketball men. On the other hand, their
coach~crew-cut, earnest Bob McHen-
ry, only 24 years old and himself an
amateur starting his ﬁrst season—could
honestly say he was for the amateur pro-
gram: “Under subsidization, I wouldn’t
be the coach.”

Well, neither McHenry nor his play-
ers disgraced anyone. They faced a
strong William and Mary team, com-
posed almost wholly ofscholarship men,
three of whom were inches taller than
W&L’s biggest player, and they were
conceded little chance to put on even a
reasonably close game. But McHenry
had scouted William and Mary well and
was able to use his boys with maximum
strategic effect.

In the ﬁnal analysis, however, it was
the very quality they were supposed
neither to have nor evoke—spirit~that
proved their greatest asset. They hustled
endlessly, actually rebounded on even
terms with William and Mary despite
the vast difference in height. Under the
sure hand of Mal Lassman, their attack
was relentless and intelligent, rarely los-
ing the ball through amateurish errors.

At the end of regular time, the score
was 52 all. At the end of the ﬁrst ﬁve-
minute overtime period, it was 56 all.
They lost, ﬁnally, 63-60, never having
abandoned their poise, and to student
cheers such as have seldom greeted
winning W&L teams. Rather than dis-
gracing, they surely enhanced a proud
tradition.

George Washington, it appears, in-
vested that stock wisely.

 
   

Tired of your sport not being
represented?  

Write for the Phi.
  Problem solved.

Feel free to email us at phi@
wlu.edu, spicakd12@mail.wlu.
edu or johnsj 12@mail.wlu.edu.

 

g

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

I ill.lEXANl)l§l{ MARAGIIS

Job security in sports is almost exclusively measured on
wins and losses. This emphasis placed on the on-ﬁeld results
is most prominent in professional sports’, but it undoubtedly
trickles down to the amateur levels as well. For better or worse,
this straightforward barometer dictates nearly all personnel de-
cisions in the business of sports. Yet over the last week and
a half at Penn, State, job security was measured in something

  

HI-.',l‘...

S'l‘El’llE1 I PECK

  

Joe Paterno has been the head coach of the Penn State Nit-
tany Lions football team since 1966. He has amassed a Divi-
sion I record of 409 career wins. He has won two national
championships, is a College Football Hall of Famer, and has
even been a Sports Illustrated Sportsman of the Year. His list
of accolades is only rivaled in length by the list of stories of
Patemo affecting a person’s life positively.

considered foreign to modern athletics. This measurement is
neither new, nor complicated, but so oﬁen hidden from View
that its prominent re—inclusion into decisions at Penn St. almost
came as a shock.

What’s the measurement? Right and wrong.

Unfortunately, basing ‘decisions off of what is right and
wrong is usually implemented when something terribly wrong
has occurred, like the child abuse charges against former Penn
St. Defensive Coordinator Jerry Sandusky. It might be seldom

The colle e football world was rocked
last week w en allegations of child sexual
abuse came out against a former Penn State

. coach. Long time head coach Joe Patemo
was dismissed, leading many to ask, did the
school do the right thing by ﬁring him so
quickly?

Stephen and Alex give their takes.

But when faced with the opportunity of bringing a close
friend to justice for sexual assault, Paterno stood by.

Paterno is a legend. He is a titanic ﬁgure in college football
-and is revered like a god in Happy Valley. People listen to Joe
Paterno.

But when informed of the atrocities committed against a
young boy by former assistant Jerry Sandusky, Paterno shrunk.
It was a deciding moment in the life of the man known as Joe
Pa, and he failed.

According to the horrifying grand jury report, when in-

used, but thank God someone decided to apply it in Happy Val— A

ley. Right and wrong has the former President of Penn State Graham Spanier and several
other prominent former university officials looking for new jobs (and likely never ﬁnding
them). Right and wrong also has thousands of students from Penn St. organizing a candlelight
vigil on campus to show support for the victims of this sex-abuse scandal.

So where is Joe Patemo’s place on the right and wrong spectrum? Didn’t he do the right
thing? Well yes...and no. He reported once heir—apparent Sandusky’s alleged crimes to his
superiors, assuming they would be dealt with in the proper manner, and that’s it. Yes, that
was one of the right things to do. But it wasn’t enough in the eyes of The Pennsylvania State
University Board of Trustees or in the eyes of many in the general public. The board decided
that the best course of action was to -ﬁre the face of the school before he had the chance to
coach the Nittany Lions in what would have been his 549th game.

Two Saturdays ago, Patemo and the Nittany Lions defeated The University of Illinois 10-7
to place Patemo atop the all—time college football wins list--a truly remarkable accomplish-
ment in what was widely considered before the scandal to be his ﬁnal year on the sidelines.
His iconic career at Penn St. was ﬁlled with dozens of accolades that now appear hollow in
the wake of such a dark period in the school’s history. In the end, Patemo was ﬁred because
he didn’t do enough to stop the alleged abuse. I agree that he should have been ﬁred; he didn’t
do enough right to keep his job. Still, Patemo getting the ax before he had the chance to coach
the last home game of the season does not seem ﬁtting. He’s not accused of sexually abus-
ing anyone. I just don’t think that the punishment ﬁts the crime. He did not commit so much
wrong to warrant an immediate and graceless dismissal.

I say that PSU should let the man who has become the face of the university go out with
some deserved dignity. He has donated millions to the school and is consistently mentioned
as not only a molder of great football teams, but a molder of great men. Nearly all who have
played under him since his ﬁrst year 1966 admire his passion, leadership and integrity. So in
a situation caused by one man doing so much wrong, I think Penn St should have let “JoePa”
coach just one more game. It seems like the right thing to do.

formed by a graduate assistant that Sandusky was found mo-
lesting a young boy in the showers, Patemo simply reported it to the Athletic Director. Pa-
terno did his legal obligation, but not his moral obligation. He could have made one phone
call to the police. He cou1d’ve gone out of his way to bring Sandusky to justice. People
would have listened to Joe Paterno. But he did no such thing.

Perhaps he stayed relatively silent because Sandusky was a friend. But more frighten-
ing is the thought that he stayed silent because he wanted to keep Penn State competitive.
Perhaps he feared that if this news broke, his program would be shot to pieces. They would
lose recruits, scholarships, and precious sponsorship money and be a step behind other
programs. But ifvwe have got to the point as a society where the win-at-all-costs mentality
in college sports is chosen over reporting a sexual offender to the police, then the system is
broken and I fear for our future.

Sports are my escape. I idolize my athletic heroes and will schedule my day around
watching a game. But at the end ofthe day, that is all sports are. A game. So if college foot-
ball has become so competitive, so tainted, that all moral obligation to do what is right is
thrown out the window, then I want no part of it. As said by a few national pundits, I miss
the days where the worst thing we heard about was Jim Tressell turning a blind eye to his
players selling memorabilia.

It was right to ﬁre Paterno immediately, for the simple reason that he could have done
so much more. Paterno and Penn State covered for a monster instead. of bringing him to
justice. Instead of caring for the eight victims whose childhoods are ruined, who are perma-
nently scarred, they tried to protect one of their own. There is no way he should have been
allowed to ﬁnish out the season as the head coach of Penn State.

It’s a shame that such a tremendous coach, such a beloved ﬁgure at Penn State, and by
all accounts a wonderful person could leave in such disgrace. But it is ajust, albeit unfor-
tunate, punishment.

“I wish I had done more,” Patemo said when he stepped down last week.

I’m sure the victims do too.

Wimmers start season on ﬁre

The Generals have won all ﬁve of their meets, including only the second win over Mary Washington in school history A

ByJayna Johns
sponrs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
swim team is off to a hot start this sea-
son. The Generals have won all ﬁve of
their meets this season and also placed
ﬁrst out of nine teams in ODAC relays.

The women added to their wins on
Friday when they defeated Sweet Briar
121-78. The team won nine of the day’s
11 events, and three races saw the Gen-
erals clinch the top three spots.

The Generals came out strong, ﬁn-
ishing ﬁrst and second in the opening
race, the 400 yard medley relay.

The Generals “A” team of seniors
Jocelyn Cassada and Dana Fredericks,
ﬁrst-year Caroline Hamp and sopho-
more Meredith Hardy ﬁnished solidly in
ﬁrst with a time of 4:10.48. They were
followed by senior Katie Salvati, ﬁrst-
year Hannah Melkun, and sophomores
Lauren Kasoff and Rebecca Lawrence,
who ﬁnished second in 4:19.92.

W&L captured each of the top three
places in three individual events: the
200 free, the 400 individual medley and
the 200 fly.

In the 200 free, senior Joanie Hudak
came in ﬁrst with a time of2:05.85, fol-

lowed by junior Kelly Mae Ross with a
time of 2:07.36. Junior Izzy Brassﬁeld
touched in a breath later at 2:07.81.

S_alvati continued her succesful day
by winning the 400 IM in 4:51.06,
and Kasoff followed her lead, coming
in second in 4:55.47. First—year Kate
Feeser came in third in 5:01.93.

In the 200 ﬂy, junior Delaney Rolfe
touched in ﬁrst in 2:18.12, while Hamp
and Hampton came in second and third
with times of 2:22.54 and 2:28.80, re-
spectively.

Fredericks had another winning
swim, capturing the 200 breast stroke
in 2:32.20, and Cassada took the 500

. free in 5:25.87. '

In the 100 free, Lawrence brought
home the win in 58.46, Hardy won the
50 free with a time of 26.21. Finishing
up the General’s wins of the day was
senior Elizabeth Stames, who took the
1000 free in 11:18.40.

The Generals will be back in the wa-
ter on Nov. 19, when they head to Cam-
egie Mellon. There, they will face CMU
and Allegheny beginning at 11:30 am.

  

«'5

o . _.. .111  - V? I V 7 M3‘ ‘ p ‘
W&L women are off to an unde eated start to th r seaso after
solidly winnin all oftheir meets, includin
against eight

g a conference relay
DAC foes. :

ourtesy generalssportscom

8 - THE RlNG-TUM PHI -

Sports

 

MONDAY, ‘NOVEMBER 14, 2011

ondeck

 

MoN‘ TuEs A WED THURS FRI SAT
W&L Fall
Wrestling Classic
-. 12 pm
Men’s 3‘ 1 at at
Dickinson ‘ Elms Amherst
Basketball 7 pm 5 pm TBD
Women's Mg},
Basketball WaS7h;:gt°r
, at
Me” 5 _ Carnegie
Swimming Me“°n
11:30 am
at
W0m9n'S Carnegie
- - Mellon
Swimming 1130 am
, NCAA
Men 5 Na“
X—Country Champ
12 pm
NCAA
Women's Natq
_ Champ
X Country 12 pm

 numbers
1950

This was the year the last time Penn State football played a

inth

 

game without Joe Paterno as a coach on the sidelines. Paterno

began working as an assistant coach that year and became the
team's head coach in 1965.The Nebraska Huskers beat the

Nittany Lions 17-14 in the ﬁrst game without Paterno in almost

62 years.

902

The number of wins Duke head basketball coach Mike Krzyze-
wski has had in his college careerfollowing a 96-55 win over
Presbyterian on Saturday. This mark ties Krzyzewski with his

former coach Bob Knight on the career wins list. He will have a

chance to break the record on Tuesday against Michigan State.

69

Tennis superstar Roger Federer has won this many tournament
titles in his career. His most recent win came on Sunday when
he defeated Jo—Wilfried Tsonga 6-1, 7-6 in the Paris Masters. The
win also marked his 18th Masters title, putting him right be—

hind all-time leader Rafael Nadal, who has 19. . ,.  - 

Never.

Well, until now anyway. The Oklahoma State football
team is 10-0 for the ﬁrst time in history after knocking off
Texas Tech 66-6 on Saturday. Only one OSU team has ever

had an undefeated season — the 1945 team ﬁnished 9-0.

soapbox

"I didn’t know if! was going to get out of it
alive. It was very hard for me. It was very
hard for my family. ”

--washIn¢Ior1NaIlonaIsmherwIlaonRamos,.whowas
lddnappedwhlleathornolnvenezuolqoommenlndontho
ordealaﬂierhIsriasouoonSaurrdqy.RarnosvrasmIasln¢for

Undue-

“He ’d say hello, but I was looking for, ‘Hey,
do this’ or ‘Watch out for that.’ He knew
everyone was comparing me to him. He
knew better than anyone what I was up

against, but he gave me nothing.”
--In hIsnawbook,baskatbaiI1e¢ondshaquIIIoo'NeaI

‘lasliesoirfatfonnerplqyars, lno1udIn¢KnraemAbdu|-Jabber,

whomeshaqlsriaferrlngtolnthlscommontwdul-ilabbar
raspondedlio1horarnarl<sonh|sFaoebookpa¢o,:Iqy|rI¢that
hewas'naverunfrlendly'toShaqandshaqwas‘doIrr¢It
hls[awn]ww.'

Ridersshine

W&L women have placed

third out of 1] teams in

each of their last two meets

By Angela Williams
STA F F w RITE R

The Washington and Lee riding team took
home a third place ﬁnish after competing
against 10 other teams last Saturday at the
Sweet Briar IHSA Invitational.

Senior Tamara Morse and ﬁrst-year Sarah
Ward paced the Generals, each winning one of

their classes at the meet. Morse took home the
blue ribbon in the open ﬁat, and also added a
third-place ﬁnish over fences in the most ad-
vanced level, while Ward won the walk-trot-
canter. ‘

Senior Camille Cobb ﬁnished fourth in the

  
  

walk-trot event, and sophomore Maia Rob-
bins had a ﬁfth-place showing in the interme-
diate ﬂat. ,

The women will be out of action’ for the
rest of the term. They will return to the ring on
February 3 at the Randolph 1HSA1nvitational.

Rough day for wrestling

The Generals struggled in a Pennsylvania tournament, dropping all four meets

STORY COURTESY OF
GENERALSSPORTS.C_OM

The Washington and Lee wrestling team
was in action on Saturday afternoon, compet-
ing in the Electric City Duals hosted by th
University of Scranton. ‘

The Generals ﬁnished 0-4 on the day, fall-
ing to Penn State-DuBois (34-12), Apprentice
School (33-12), Scranton (39-7) and the Uni-
versity of Maryland-Baltimore County (36-
15).

Seniors Sam Campbell and David Den-
nis both led the way by ﬁnishing 4-0 on the

day. Campbell produced a 6-3 win over Penn
State-DuBois’ Joshua Kunig, defeated Ap-

prentice’s Dwayne Roes, 8-3, knocked off

Kevin Williams of Scranton, 5-3 in overtime,
and won by forfeit against UMBC.

Dennis began by pinning PSU-DuBois’
Garrett Singer in 2:34, then he pinned Antho-
ny Damico ofthe Apprentice School in 1:24.
He then earned a major decision over Paul Ra-
jan of Scranton (11-1), before ﬁnishing with a
pin ofa competitor from UMBC.

First-year Conor Duffey also logged a 2-2
record for the afternoon. He opened with a
6-1 win over PSU-DuBois’ Garrett Zarecky,
then fell to Sterling Briscoe of the Apprentice
School, 6-5. Duffey then dropped a 10-8 deci-
sion to Vinny Signoriello of Scranton before
ﬁnishing his day with a 6-5 win over a wres-
tler from UMBC. ,

Washington and Lee (0-4) returns to action
on Saturday as it hosts a tri with Liberty and
East Tennessee State beginning at 12:00 pm

1' 2'3

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSPORTSCOM

 

D

Seasons end for runners 

The seasons for the men 3 and women s cross country teams end after Regionals

By Dessie Otachlyska
5 TA F F w R l r E R

The Washington and Lee men’s cross
country team concluded their 2011 season on
Saturday at the NCAA South/Southeast Re-
gional meet, which took place at Texas Lu-
theran University.

‘The Generals ﬁnished in 17"‘ place out of
23 participating teams. Matt Gossett led the
team with a time of 28: 16.2, ﬁnishing 54"‘ out
174 runners.

Robert Wameford-Thomson also repre-
sented W&L. He ran the course in 28:51.6
and was the 80"‘ overall ﬁnisher. Thomson
was followed by Tyler Gehrs, who came in
83'" with a time of 28:59.5. Ryan Henner

was right behind him, running for a time of‘

29:08.9.
Michael Bronst'ein, a ﬁrst-year student
from Canton, Mass., ﬁnished in 104"‘ place

with a time of 29:41.9. He was followed
by James Grasso, who recorded a time of
30:36.4 for a 117"‘ place ﬁnish.

The women’s cross-country team also
competed in the NCAA South/Southeast
Regional meet on Saturday, ﬁnishing in 7"‘
place out ‘of 29 teams. This year marked the
women’s cross-country team’s ﬁrst NCAA
qualiﬁer since 2009. ‘

Junior Lauren Schultz led the way for the
Generals, ﬁnishing 12"‘ out of 193 runners
in a time of 23:16. This performance earned
Schultz all-region honors for the second time
in her college career. In addition, Schultz
earned a spot in the national championship
ﬁeld.

W&L was also represented by sophomore
Brandie Huffman, who ﬁnished in 34"‘ place

with a time of 24.28. Junior Molly Ortiz ran
the course in 25:19, good enough to earn her
a 615‘ place ﬁnish. Ortiz was followed by
sophomores Ashley Gerard and Katie Driest.
Gerard ﬁnished in 75"‘ place with a time of
25:50 Driest ﬁnished in 815‘ place. _

First-year Tori Andrews and junior Teresa
Soley ﬁnished up the ﬁeld for the Generals,
coming in in 91?‘ and 128"‘ place respectively.
Andrews recorded a time of 26:14, while
Soley ﬁnished in 27:20.

Lauren Schultz managed to qualiﬁed for
the NCAA Championships as an individual. ‘
She will compete in Oshkosh, Wisconsin
next Saturday.

