 

‘I

 

 

 

 

1.}; g.~',V9!' A V'V‘1‘.ﬂw'.r").:"

Sad MockCon is over?

OPINIONS / page 5

Have more reasons to party!
Take a break, kick back and discover a new

holiday to celebrate.

ARTS&LlFE / page 6

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsi'n'

 TI-IE RING-TUM P1-11. 

MONDAY,FEBRUARYl3,20l2 I"! IHE STUDENTS AID FOR THE SIUDEIIS Sli||EE 15!? VOLUMECXV,NUMBER14‘-I

By Neil Haggerty
STAF F WRITER

After years of planning and meticu-
lous research, the Washington and Lee
Mock Convention predicted Saturday

‘that former Massachusetts Governor

Mitt Romney will run against Barack
Obama as the Republican candidate for
president.

Romney’s won the nomination with
1,781 delegates over Newt Gingrich,
Rick Santorum and Ron Paul after In-
diana gave all 46 of its delegate to the
former Massachusetts’ governor.

Not only did the 2012 Mock Conven-
tion have the ﬁrst—ever interactive web-
site with live streaming, this convention
also set the record for the most money
raised in the history of Mock Conven-
tions at W&L. The organization ‘col-
lected about $200,000 from over 650
donors.

At the start of the weekend, Mock
Con faculty advisor Professor William
Connelly said that this year’s convention
leaders were “poised to produce the best
Mock Convention in the history of Mock
Conventions at Washington and Lee.”

These leaders of the executive com-
mittee included the ﬁrst female general
chair in Mock Con’s history, Tricia King,
as well as political chair Zach Wilkes,
personnel chair Tucker Pribor, execu-
tive secretary Laura Ball and executive
treasurer Brandon Allred, as well as the
steering committee and state chairs.

These leaders helped to elevate the
convention to being the most accurate
convention in Mock Con’s history at
W&L.

King led the convention asking stu-

dents to be ready for the “phenomenon ’

and national storm that [Mock Con] is.”

“W&L is a school like no other...
[Mock Con] deﬁes the nation’s expecta-
tions ofyoung people,” said King.

On the day of Romney’s nomination,
keynote speaker and former Mississippi
Governor Haley Barbour said, “I can’t
wait until the afternoon is over, because
I know you are going to get it right.”

Romney’s ability to lead America out
of the major budget deﬁcit was a major
theme throughout the speeches during
the convention as well as the need for
Americans to come together behind a

Republican candidate.
Carville v. Coulter

Mock’ Con weekend kicked off with
a debate between popular right-wing
political commentator Ann Coulter and
successful liberal campaign coordina-
tor James Carville, who is the ﬁrst out
of party speaker in Mock Con’s history.
This debate was moderated by W&L
graduates Mike Allen ’86, the chief
White House correspondent for POLIT-
lCO, and Kelly Evans ’07, a W&L Busi-
ness Journalism major and reporter for
the Wall Street Journal.

During the debate, Coulter said Rom-
ney is the most electable candidate for
president in the Republican party “but
it’sjust hard to take out an incumbent.”

Along with Obama’s incumbency,
Coulter said, “He’s charming, he’s got
the mainstream media.”

Carville also said that he believes
that Romney is going to be the nominee
for president, but “Romney cannot beat
Obama...because Romney is just a bad
candidate.”

“Mitt Romney is a generic Republi-
can. He’s kind of a square....After four
years of [Obama] wrecking the country,
square is going to be very appealing,”
Coulter said.

On the other potential Republican
leaders, Carville said that he would love
to see Newt Gingrich win the nomina-
tion.

Coulter responded to this comment
saying that Gingrich’s candidacy would
be a 49-state landslide. However, she
said that New Jersey Governor Chris
Christie would be a very strong candi-
date and a good running mate for Rom-
ney.

“Chris Christie is a once in a lifetime
politician,” said Coulter.

The issue ofObamacare and the cov-
erage of contraception in insurance was
also discussed in the debate.

Carville said, “I am for women hav-
ing contraception at every junction.”

Coulter said, “This is madness that
insurance will have to cover contracep-
tion,” calling Obamacare “communism.”
W&L hearts Huckabee -

Following the debate between Car-

ville and Coulter, former Republican
primary candidate and Arkansas Gov.
Mike Huckabee opened the convention
saying, “The accuracy is reason enough
why any politician wants to be [at Mock
Con].” .
Huckabee said to students that “the
best government we will ever have...
is self-govemment” and that “lowering
taxes is an effect of self-govemment.”

Huckabee described self-government
as an aspect of the Republican party’s
platform that allows people to move up
in society on their own.

“I am the ﬁrst male in my entire fami-
ly lineage to graduate from high school,”
said Huckabee. He added that “unless
something drastically changes starting
with this election,” young people today
won’t live better lives than their parents.

“What a terrible kind of legacy,” said
Huckabee.

H uckabee said that the current gradu-
ated tax system of the Obama adminis-
tration will prevent the current genera-
tion from living better lives than their
parents because it “punishes people who
are trying to be productive.”

Huckabee said, “It is not the govem-
ment’s job to referee” and that the gov-
emment’s job is to make sure that the
winners are the ones who are responsible
and the losers are the ones who live reck-
lessly. '

Huckabee closed his address asking
students to elect someone that will chal-
lenge Americans. “I want your world to
be every bit as good, if not better, than
the one I have. . .It is our responsibility to
do unto others as we would have them do
unto us,” said Huckabee.

Session One

Mock Con began with two video
calls from Speaker of the House John
Boehner and Ohio Sen. Rob Portman,
followed by several politicians who em-
phasized the need to elect a Republican

"president to bring back constitutionality

to the federal government.

“Exercises such as the Mock Conven-
tion can provide people a special insight
on how we choose our leaders,” said
Boehner.

Portman added that conventions are

COY FERRELL/ staff photographer

Thousands of students, parents, alums, faculty and interested
visitors turned out for the ﬁnal sesion of the 2012 Republican

Mock Convention at W&L.

“one of the most exciting and important
traditions in ‘all of American Politics”

, and that it is “time for the government

to stop spending more than it can pay.”

Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell fol-
lowed Coulter as one of the many poli-
ticians who spoke during the weekend-
who supported Romney as the candidate
for the Republican party. McDonnell
said, “[Romney] is the right guy at the
right time for America”

According to McDonnell, Republi-
can governors like Romney have been
able to cut $65 billion in deﬁcits and that
they govern 7 out of l0 ofthe states with
the lowest unemployment rates.

McDonnell also pointed to the uncon-
stitutional healthcare system under the
Obama administration and failed entitle-
ment and environmental policies as as-
pects of the current federal government’s
work that Republicans can improve.

Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuc-
cinelli followed McDonnell’s speech
emphasizing that if the federal govern-
ment breaks the law, people need to push
back.

“The president seems to think that his
agencies will follow the law whenever
he likes the law. . .we are fulﬁlling the vi-
sion- about how federalism should work
in the real world” by pushing back, Cuc-
cinelli said. ‘

West Virginia district Congresswom-
an Shelley Moore Capito did not point
to a speciﬁc candidate that she supports
but said a strong conservative needs to
ﬁll the “vacuum of leadership” in Wash-
ington.

House Majority Leader Eric Cantor
closed the ﬁrst session. He reflected on
the traditions of honor, mock political
conventions and national unity at W&L
as a model for the rest ofAmerica to fol-
low.

. Cantor said that the Mock Conven-
tion is an opportunity for students to
learn the Republican party’s platform.

“[Mock Con] reﬁects the traditions
here at W&L that support young leader
involvement...we are a party of ideas,”
said Cantor.

Cantor said the Republican party’s
system of freedom can bring back the

American Dream, in which generations
improve upon generations.

“As the president has co-opted how
we Republicans talk, he has not co-opted
how we Republicans walk,” said Cantor.

He added, “The President’s concept
of a fair shot and mine differ...if you
work hard and play by the rules, every-
one in America should have a fair shot.”

Cantor said that wealth distribution
is an aspect of Obama’s policy that does
not give everyone a fair shot. He said
that the poor should receive a “hand-up,
not a hand out.”

Session Two

Session two of the 2012 Mock Re-
publican Convention included speeches
by Michigan Congressmen Thaddeus
McCotter, former Republican Presiden-
tial primary candidate and Governor of
Utah Jon Huntsman Jr, and former Okla-
homa Congressman J.C. Watts. These
speeches emphasized the need for Amer-
icans to come together in the face of an
adverse economy.

‘‘I’m happy to be with young peo-
ple...[people] don’t necessarily respect
the fact that wisdom comes with no age,”
said McCotter.

McCotter added that in the current
times" in which we face, the Democratic
party failed to recognize the need for
self-govemment.

“Why would you let the federal gov-
ernment choose your doctor and tell
you what kind of healthcare you should
have?...This is why [the democrats] are
not progressive, they are regressive,”

"said McCotter.

He told students that they must ﬁght
against the current govemment regula-
tions. “You are wide awake and you will
make a difference,” said McCotter.

After a video call from l98O W&L
graduate Chris Burnham, in which stu-
dents were commended for their com-

. mitinent to service, Huntsman spoke to

students about focusing on America, not
partisan politics.

Continued on page 2

 & l.-BE unzvensrrv
u~;xmar__oN, VA 24450
2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY,

FEBRUARY 13, 2012

FEB 1 5 2012

 

What’d you
think?

Students, alums and parents

sound oﬂ on the weekend

ByTommyKent
STAFF WRITER

First Session

Dick Warren ‘53: “Mock conventions are always won-
derful and terribly interesting due to the devoted ef-
forts over a long period of time by W&L students. The
speakers were marvelous. They were inspiring, includ-
ing some of the students.” »

Juhi Amin ‘I3: “I think [the speakers] were able to

_ represent a wide range of different viewpoints. They

make you think. It wouldn’t be exciting if they said
everything you wanted to hear. You want speakers who
will invoke thought. Even though they were all from
the same party it was interesting to see how they had
different views.”

Second Session A ‘
Mark Sowimski ‘I4: “I really enjoyed it. J.C. Watts
told some really moving stories.”

Tyler Grant ‘I2: “ I’m ﬁred up. I like what J.C. Watts
said: ‘We need an American campaign, not a Republi-
can campaign.’ I think the generalmessage is: We can’t
be divisive. We need to look at the bigger picture. The
speeches were really bold. I really liked the speeches.”
Lauran Lukas ‘I2: “I thought [the speakers] were very
enthusiastic. They had a lot of energy. A lot of repeated
themes: self-govemance. Self-govemance was the key
message. It was a good one. I really liked how Hunts-
man incorporated our motto.”

Liz Bell ‘12: “I loved [Thaddeus McCotter]. I thought
from his facial expressions, that we were just supposed
to laugh at everything. As a Democrat, I would say
leaving the convention, I’m a little more open to the
Republican party’s platform.

Mary Decembrino (mother of ‘I2 graduate): “I thought
it was great. I would say I ﬁnd J .C. Watts very inspir-
ing. John Huntsman had a lot of great things to say. I
could relate to a lot of the issues he was referring to. It
was engaging and informative.”

Third Session

Amanda Dixon ‘I5: “I think we had really impressive
speakers who had a lot of personal insight. Thompson
gave a lot of personal insight.”

Gordon Leggettl ‘54 (Board of Trustees Emeritus):
“My impression was that the speakers with the ex-
ception of Dick Morris, were awful, especially Fred
Thompson. I did enjoy McMaster. He was the second
best. Fred Thompson was just too long and just too
dry. It is a great tradition at W&L and this has been
one of the best I have ever attended. I came all the way
down from Philadelphia to hear this. I’m very curious
who they are going to nominate. One of the things that
puzzles me, is why there has been so little mention of
Gingrich or Santorum. Strong Republican platform
that has very little mention of Gingrich or Santorum
is surprising.”

Fourth Session
Clarke Morrison ‘12: “I think it was well done but pre-
dictable.”

Tommy Joe Bednar ‘I5: “I thought it was going to be
Romney all along. I was surprised by the margin we
gave him and the choice of vice president.”

Gary Franke, wrestling coach (attending his 10th
Mock Con): “I think they are always different, because
the student body always changes. It is always excit-
ing.”

Continued from “Mock Con...”
“What this evening is about is
your motto...not unmindful of the

duty and an obligation and a respon-
sibility to give back.”

tician’s goal of gaining the heart of
America and not to be political.

“it’s an intimidating deal when
you look somebody in the eye and
say ‘I want your vote,’” said Hunts-
man.

Although he talked about his po-
litical past, he said politicians and
citizens must remember what’s really
important.

“We must regain conﬁdence...I
am an American before I am a Re-
publican. We are Americans ﬁrst and
foremost.”

Watts’s speech, which closed the
night, echoed Huntsman’s point that
Americans need to be united.

“This is not your American, it’s
not my America, it’s our America,”
Watts said. “We are part of an Amer-
ican campaign, not a Republican
campaign.”

Session Three

The third session speakers includ-
ed Dick Morris. political commenta-
tor and former White House advisor
to Bill Clinton, South Carolina Attor-
ney General Henry McMaster. Vir-
ginia Congressmen Bob Goodlatte,
former Virginia Governor George
Allen and former Tennessee Sena-

By Drew Carlos
STAFF warren

A banned books display in Leyburn Library was set up to raise awareness.
. bout a new law in Airzona eliminating programs that promote ethnic. , _ _ . . p,
i_   , Gavaler» said students; 'pr_fofe§~....-

solidarity.

future,” said Huntsman. “You have a ,

Huntsman, emphasized the poli-,

tor and actor Fred Thompson. These
speeches reiterated the necessity of a
Republican president at this time in
our country.

Dick Morris kicked of the ses-
sion three speeches, saying: “I used
to work for Bill Clinton. I know what
it takes to re-elect a president and
Obama doesn’t have it.”

Morris reflected on the need for
a true conservative president like
Ronald Reagan, because “[Obama]
inherited a disaster and created a ca-
tastrophe.”

“[Obama] borrowed so much
money that he tipped the entire world
into what is called debt implosion...
Obama literally declared war on.the
upper income tax payers,” said Mor-
ris.

Morris said that Romney is cur-
rently the candidate with the best
ability to beat Obama in November,
but that he needs to make people be-
lieve that he is a conservative. Mor-
ris added that both Rick Santorum

and Newt Gingrich would also beat’

Obama.

“My head is for Romney, my
heart is for Gingrich, and my gut is
for Santorum...Obama will be a bad
dream,” said Morris.

McMaster followed asking stu-
dents to push themselves, ask ques-
tions'and be proud of America, in
order to live in the light of some of
the greatest people in America like
W&L’s namesakes, George Washing-

ton and Robert E. Lee.

Following a video call from
W&L grad Congressman Joe Wilson,
Goodlatte continued the sentiment
that the debt caused by Obama needs
to be erased by a Republican Presi-
dent.

“The reality is that the Obama ad-
ministration has 4000 regulations...
[Republicans] are committing to en-
acting a meaningful tax reform” to
decrease the burden on taxpayers,
said Goodlatte.

Goodlatte said, “We need a bal-
anced budget and an amendment to
the U.S. Constitution.”

The amendment that Goodlatte is
supporting is one that does not accept
the federal government running tril-
lions of dollars in debt.

A convention like the Mock Con-

vention at W&L is a great opportu-
nity for students to learn about the
political process and realize a party
platform, according to Goodlatte.
I “You’ve spent months studying
how the process works...you have
the same feel [of a real convention],”
said Goodlatte.

While most of the speakers either
supported the W&L convention’s
nominee or did not choose a candi-
date, Thompson said that he support-
ed Newt Gingrich.

“The way we view these candi-
dates has to do with the way we view
our country. . .the fact that [Gingrich]
may not play well with others who

9 :3
iziz.-.ra~u;:ri~.ic_‘; wumrs 7' 

is

Books banned iri

Law eliminates Mexican-American studies prog

District. - : . > I 

I Tales class would be diﬁicult:

resentment or emotions
their readers. " V. j ~

. reader?” Miranda saidfjwf '

a.  

     
   

. W&L] professors ‘say aria.
were shocked‘ iana -upset by"tl;e .
law, especiallyiits broad" scope;.1;.:

English Professor ‘Christopher 5 j

. ' Gavaler said if. he were in, T_7u‘c-7 F T

son, Ariz., teaching his-Thrilling  1}» I

 

Associate: Professor ’~cf—EiIigr"”  ’ .. A
lish ‘Deborah -Mirandajivsaid-.‘tha}r».‘.l
the real sliock:set jin7once;fsheg~ _ A M _
_conﬁnn_ed; the reports” that books, jihad chang'_edtour lives, ‘and,
were being. banned‘-‘because they ‘ 4

, were on tl1e'?Mexican'-American‘
Studies Program reading list.‘  M A
Books arelbeitig takengpoft‘ the _:

a shelf , because theyf m‘ay'v.create. 

4

V “Isn’t good “literature.  ..
posed to arouse emotion inthf

are working in Washington doesn’t
disturb me a bit,” said Thompson.

“The process now rests with our
candidates. Somebody needs to take
the lead... and have the courage to
speak straight with the American

' people,” said Thompson.

Session Four

Before the ﬁnal state roll call and
the announcement of Mitt Romney as
the Republican nominee for the 2012
election, keynote speaker and former
Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour ad-
dressed the crowd. '

“Nominate the right candidate for
our party who will be the next presi-
dent and who will change our poli-
cies,” said Barbour. “Who has got the
best chance to beat Obama?”

Barbour also said that the incum-
bent president is always the favorite
and that we are not looking for per-
fection in a Republican candidate.

“Even when you disagree with
him, your job is promoting what
unites us as Republicans,” said Bar-
bour

Following Barbour’s speech was
the state roll call. After Indiana gave
all 46 of its delegates to Romney, he
was announced as the nominee for
the Republican party and Virginia
Gov. Bob McDonnell was announced
as the nominee for Vice President.

Romney’s wife, Ann Romney, ac-
cepted the nomination via video call.

Said Romney: “We are truly ﬁght-
ing for the soul of America.”

4; ENCE 1908"

COY FERRELL/ staff photographer

‘An Arizona ' law jbanning _ " A F
books has unsettledrmany people‘,
across the country, including pro-J 
fessors at.Washington.and Lee." 

» . Recently,The  Post «
reported, a stateflawi was passed»; 
that will ban ethnic-.'s’tudies—gin;” I
Arizona’s TucsoniUniﬁedgSchoo

is"sue‘."f;  . .V 4 
»  “Many 1I5¢0p’l§.:;_t"l1iiIll{*31;1I1l\.l_?‘
,!sities’are-osovmehoyi.  _e—’ 

  

  
 

_  oflaws could‘
feet everyone,fMiranda said." — A

 

.,on“ tihéi‘ bar1ned..,1'ist;. a» ’b<.>ok%

* has: also 1 “changed ftlief lives" .6’

  
 

. augiitpshesad; - »

    

   
   

Studies. Pfograrn  haite 
-bannedi,‘ j .  I

rams and othe_rS,.l .  ' 1  _;

   
 
   
 
 
  
      

“Every professor; has atg‘leastﬂ*
one",book;thjey loved I that ‘was’ s

the Sti1dents_::veach'professorl 
I .,:_T_1m_e is,currentl,y;a'disp1ay§i1r-ff

 that[featur'es ﬂteibcoksgrgzs
among ‘f from ‘,the;g: Mexican. _ American‘-‘I

   

  
   

O

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARYl3, 2012 -THE R|NG-TUMPH|-

_;' . $r;,;,ﬁ._'~“" __  '
. >3‘ ‘ V . - ~ '

y1Ee_rre‘

w-\..

 entsrep sfgatesxin parae  

_ ‘tween ltheser ous business in ’
x  the Warner Center, W&L students had a
{bit of fun Friday morning with the Mock
onvention Parade.
_ "You can kind of see how everyone was
, inspired to take part in this convention and
 show their pride for their country and their
: ;.states,” said sophomore Emily Crawford. '
g ‘V The delegation from South Carolina took
" home ﬁrst prize in the ﬂoat contest, but all
tates represented themselves well in the
tudents’ eyes.
’’I was really surprised by how everything
ame together. I was here last night to
gabout midnight, and there were still a few
~ ﬂoats without anything on them,” said ﬁrst-
ear Amira Hegazy. _  ,_  V V ,
For many students,.the parade was just as
mpor.tant a part of the convention as the
essions. V  o ‘ .
’’I think it is just a chance to be creative.

-Ir

 Illinois

mi»: sHr~n¢

  

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13,2012

opinions

 

tothe editor.

Dear Rachel,

Thank you for your letter.

As a regular reader of the Phi, you
have probably noticed that one of my
goals is to entertain. I frame my obser-
vations of W&L‘s campus, the Greek
system, weekend nights, and gender re-
lations in a humorous light because some
occurrences on our campus are so ridicu-
lous, they are funny (i.e., the “I kinda
saw her bra” reference).

I could not be more opposed to up-
perclassmen encouraging undcrclassmen
to objectify women. As disgusting as
the scenarios I describe may seem, they

happen. I believe it is most effective to
draw attention to these gender relation
and Greek system issues in an easy-t0-
read article rather than an easy-to-ignore
pamphlet, a threatening, accusatory let-
ter, or a vague statistic. Additionally, it
is important for girls to understand what
goes on behind fraternity doors—infor-
mation is power. The group that per-
forms “Sex Signals,” a show brought
to campus by SPEAK and One in Four,
uses the same technique to raise aware-
ness for sexual assault.

You took my “They have been
through a lot and deserve our respect,

but beware that they may be a bit big-
headed” quote out of context, and made
it seem as if I applaud boys for treating
women disrespectfully. This comment
was made in reference to the difﬁcul-
ties of pledgeship. Fraternity pledges
run the W&L social scene; whether plan-
ning and setting up parties, giving sober
rides, or cleaning up houses the fol-
lowing morning, they are constantly on
call. This is a lot for anyone to handle,
let alone an 18-year-old boy in his ﬁrst
year away from home. Imagine juggling
pledgeship with your course load and ex-
tracurricular activities. Sounds difﬁcult.

I do not think that it is unreasonable to
applaud their mental strength and perse-
verance.

Additionally, it is silly to pretend that
a two-hour cookie baking party will have
the same effect as a round-the-clock ser-
vitude stint with a group of peers. Soror-
ity bonding involves going to a comfort-
able house, talking to a couple of best
friends, and avoiding interactions with
girls you would rather not “bond” with.
Pledgeship, on the other hand, forces co-
operation and cohesion. It entails work-
ing with every member of your pledge
class, regardless of how well you get

along. It means putting older brothers’
priorities ahead of your own and sacriﬁc-
ing every ounce of free time. As a mem-
ber ofa sorority, I can assure you that the
level ofunity within fraternities is higher
come March than within any other group
on campus.

In conclusion, my articles are meant
to be funny, not offensive! I hope I have
cleared up any misunderstanding.

Sincerely.

  

Campbell Burr

arning: people do not change

Camp

  
 

 

; February
‘ break is just
around the cor-
ner. Over breaks,
I sometimes
spend a less-
than-busy day
going through
old scrapbooks.
Last time I was
home, I discov-
ered letters I had
written home
from camp when
I was 10. The
stories I shared
and the way I reacted to events mirror
my mindset today. These statements
could be mistaken for texts I send my
mom from college.

Exhibit A: “At the dance I danced

 

By Campbell Burr

GPINIOHS EDITOR

with two people. One of them was from
Illinois. With my two partners I just
talked and tried to bring up a conversa-
tion.” (Is this a text I sent my mom after
the Mock Con party in the Pavilion?)

Exhibit B: “The food isn’t that good.
Some of it probably isn’t healthy.”
(We’re talking about food from a soror-
ity retreat, correct?)

This does not only apply to me. In a
camp letter my sister wrote home at age
12, she asked my mom to send her some
items she had forgotten. At the end, she
added, “PS. I’ll take care of S&H charg-
es!” Would I have ever thought about re-
imbursing my parents for shipping and
handling charges in the sixth grade? She
remains very conscientious today.

You can also look at the way that peo-
ple spend their free time. My sister and
I spent our free time differently when

to the editor

On Friday afternoon, I decided not to
go to Session ()nc of Mock (‘on (a con-
troversial decision, I know!) in favor of
getting all my work done to attend the
other sessions. I was walking back to
my house when I received a text inform-

ing me that General Admission, one of
W&L‘s a cappella groups, had been in-
troduced at session one as being “W&L‘s
only co-ed a cappella group."

T is was soon followed by a flurry of
texts from others informing me of what
had happened, each with a different level
of annoyance. Why?

Because were the Washingtones.
W&L‘s other co-ed a cappella group.

We’re not that new; Washingtones
has been active on campus for ﬁve years.
We were founded by Neville Fogarty
(of Phi crossword fame), and have been
spending at least an hour a week singing
together ever since. We perform fairly
regularly at things like WLUR‘s Open
.»’lirirares. We‘ve been at Relay for Life
and the Parents‘ Weekend a cappella
concert. We’re an official organization
and we have a webpage on the Perform-
ing Arts section of W& US website.

MANAGING
NEWS
OPINIONS
ARTS&L|F.E EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

'£i.s;eu-:.~.r»;asD1r.£I.1in%'r .

THE RING-TUM PHI.

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE

LEIGH DANNHOUSER
CYNTHIA LAM

DREW CARLOS
ANNA DIBENEDETTO
NEIL HAGGERTY
TOMMY KENT
STEPHEN PECK
ANDREW RENALDO
CATHERINE TINNEY

JULIANNA SATTERLY

COY FERRELL
MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON

DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

‘MISSION STATEMENT: it is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

we were growing up, which accounts
for the differences in our personalities
today. My sister realized that the Easter
Bunny and Santa Claus were nonsense
unacceptably early. She enjoyed tack-
ling very advanced puzzles and invent-
ing her own artistic hairstyles (ask her
about “the unicorn”). At age 12, she read
Reader ’s Digest cover-to-cover.

Rather than sitting in my room read-
ing about New York’s crime rate, I spent
my time teaching my dolls how to add
and subtract, sitting in the driver’s seat
of my mom’s parked car with a mug of
coffee pretending to wait in the carpool
line, and betting boys in the neighbor-
hood that I could school them in soccer.
On the rare occasions when I opened
Reader ’s Digest, I turned only to one
section: Jokes.

Today, these differences are clear

But apparently we don‘t exist — and
that attitude is starting to grate on the
20 members of the group who come to
practice and enjoy performing. Every
year is an uphill battle for us, because we
are rarely, if ever, invited to perform at
W&L events. Everything we do, we do
because a group member has taken ini-
tiative and tracked someone down to get
us on the roster.

Mock Con has really put this into per-
spcctive. There were four sessions and
four renditions ofthe national anthem to
be sting. Every a cappella group was in-

through conversations around the din-
ner table. While my sister is sharing her
views on world events and discussing her
interpretations of complex philosophi-
cal statements, I am mimicking people,
imagining ridiculous scenarios, and tell-
ing embarrassing stories (on the first day
of school, I tripped down an entire ﬂight
of stairs and almost fainted). The differ-
ences in our favorite childhood pastimes
mirror the differences in our personali-
ties and interests today.

Serial cheaters are further proof that
people don’t change. You know that
partner who cheats once, promises to
never do it again, and cheats again‘? My
high school lacrosse coach told us that
the same boy who cheated on her in high
school cheated on his wife years later.
Think about how many marriages would
be intact if people did not stay with part-

vited to sing except us.
Let me be absolutely clear when I say
that I have nothing against the other a

cappella groups. l‘m friends with a lot of

the people in them and I enjoy listening
to them sing. But I’m not going to lie — it
hurts to be told several times a year that
GA, JubiLee and SoCo were invited to
sing and we weren’t. It‘s frustrating that
no matter how hard we work or how of-
ten we send emails. we cannot achieve
some level of acceptance.

We don’t feel like we‘re asking for a
lot. We don‘t want sympathy. but we do

bell Burr advises that voters look at candidates ’ past actions when deciding who deserves their vote

ners who had been dishonest with them.

This idea may seem obvious, but
when you’re casting a vote this elec-
tion season, remember that people don’t
change. ,

Take the Newt Gingrich-Freddie
Mac scandal. Is it safe to trust Gingrich
with the presidency? Look at Joe Biden.
He has been caught plagiarizing in the
past—will he do'it again? I would not
be surprised if he began his next speech,
“Four score and seven years ago.” Just
saying.

Based on my observations of the can-
didates and a thorough analysis of their
pasts, there’s only one thing I can say.
I’M WIT MITTI

want a chance to prove ourselves. We'd
love to share our music and fun-loving
spirits with everyone at W&L. We love
entertaining our audiences.

We are W&L‘s fourth a cappella
group and we want everyone to know
that we are worthy of receiving the same
opportunities as the other campus a cap-
pella groups...

...and that above all, we will keep
singing.

-Danielle Maurer, Class of ‘I2 and
President of Washing

 

”Pure Eats is  

Lexington’s

newest

A slice of heaven.”

I07 N Main Street
462-6000

-The Washington Post (I2/30/ll)

Premium local burgers, fresh doughnuts,
fries, Homestead Creamery milk shakes,
daily soups and stews...only the good stuff.

  facebook.com/PureEatsYum

" for menu updates and news

taming soon: beer!

 

   

 

 

   

   

MONDAY, FEBRUARYl3, 2012 S.THE RlNG~TUM PHI-

 

o pi n io n s

    
      
   

 

       
     
 
  

Impressions of Mock Con

i ‘ W&L ’s Mock Convention was a HUGE hit! Thank you to everyone who was involved inputting together such a
fabulous, memorable weekend. Take a look at what students are saying about the event:

 .,
.1“? ' ‘kn
V , ’ ‘ l 3.. H

   

”-.  /’

 Class , 2072

Best speech: Huckabee . _;z/
A Three words to describe Ann Coulter: Smart, sexy, opinionated
Three words to describe James Carville: Personable, l_i,ve'iy, incorrect
Favorite socialevent of the weekend: Parade 

Most attractive speaker: Huntsman M *

Person you wish had come to campus: Ron Paul... riding an elephant
Favorite float in the parade: Vermont

Funniest state fact during roll call: Hawaii’s pineapples _
If you were a speaker, what song would you want played as you walked on stage? “Welcome to the Jungle”
Do you agree with the prediction? Yes

Would you rather vote for Mitt Romney or Obama? Ron Paul, but Romney if i HAD to pick one

  

\

Best speech: Tie between Jon Huntsman and Eric Cantor‘
Three words to describe Ann Coulter: Sassy, bold, jaw-dropper

Threewords to describe James Carville: Hi|arious,_engaging, snappy

Favorite social event of the weekend: Pavilion Party

Most attractive speaker: Jon Huntsman (nix the tan)

Person you wish had come to campus: Senator John McCain

Favorite float in the parade: Kentucky... you can’t go wrong with something as preppy as the Derby
Funniest state fact during roll call: Maryland (especially because Kirsten Kyne rocked the costume!)
if you were a ‘speaker, what song would you want played as you walked on stage? “Never Let You Go” by Jakaranda (The Parent Trap
soundtrack) V ' i -
Do you agree with the prediction‘? You bet! Mock Con’s “getting it right” in 2012! ’

Would you rather vote for Mitt Romney or Obama? Haven’t decided yet, but I was very persuaded this weekend‘!

Three words to describe Ann Coulter: Ravishing, insightful, clever
Three wordsto describe James Carville: imposing, comedic, philosophical
Favorite social event: The band party ‘ .

Most attractive speaker: Ann Coulter

Person I wished came to campus: George W. Bush

Favorite Float: Oregon . '

Funniest state fact during roll call: Guam

Do you agree with the prediction: Yes

Would you rather vote for Mitt Romney or Obama: Mitt “The Sh*t” Romney

Best speech: Rep./Bob Goodlatte’s rhetorical questions‘ got me all riled up
Three words" to describe Ann Coulter: F**k, marry, kill

Three words to describe James Carville: Looks like Gollum

Favorite social event of the weekend: VIP Dinner on Friday night

Most attractive speaker: Kelly Evans wins it in a 49 state landslide

Person youhwish had come to campus: THE HUNTSMAN DAUGHTERS
Favorite float in theparade: Kentucky . :
Funniest state fact during roll call: “Michigan, home to Detroit, where the temperature isn’t the only thing keeping you from going
outside.”

Do you agree with the prediction? Sure, but i don’t think it will be that kind of blowout
Would you rather vote for Mitt Romney or Obama? Ron Paul_ ’

Best speech: My favorite speech of the weekend was Huckabee. Although he’s idealistic, I really thought he was a" great speaker, and ljwould
1 love to live in his version of America. * ‘ "
Three words to describe Ann Coulter: Hot, bold, strong-willed

Three words to describe James Carville:’Understands his audience

Favorite social eventof the weekend: Parade! j

Mostattractive speaker: Huntsman _ . _ . ;
Person you‘wish had come to campus: Marco Rubio would have been interesting to hear, especially since his name has been tossed around
as being the VP candidate. . ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘
Favorite float in the parade: Puerto Rico obviously!

Funniest state fact during roll call: Puerto Rico!!! Those girls were hot. _

If you were a speaker, what song would you want played as you walked on stage? “Party in the USA” , - 

Do you agree with the prediction? As a state chair, I completely agree at least on behalf of my territory. Zach is so smart, and he really
knows what he’s talking about, so i respect his opinion on the prediction. It will be interesting to see if Romney does win. ‘

   
  
 

444

Best speech: Eric Cantor’s speech was phenomenal, but i would still have to say that Congressman Thad McCotter’s was my V

favorite. It really made me think about“the times in which we live.” , »
Three! words to describe Ann Coulter: Uncompromlsing, pragmatic, sexy
Three words to describe James Carville: Ragin’, engagin’, cajun v
Favorite social event of the weekend: I loved being in the parade. Fun for the whole family!
Most attractive speaker: Jon Huntsman. impeccable hair. , ' ‘
Person you wish had come to campus: Herman Cain! I was really looking forward to seeing him speak. Too bad he couldn’t make it.
Favorite float in the parade: My own float, Ameri-can Samoa ' ' i ‘ V
Funniest state fact during roll call: Oregon, the beaver. state _ - - .

if you were a speaker, what song would you want played as you walked. on stage? “I am a Real American” by Rick Derringer

Do you agree with the prediction? Absolutely. Mitt will surely get the nomination. ‘

Would you rather vote for Mitt Romney or Obama? Since Romney won’t continue to run up our national debt and run our economy
into the ground, he’s Am‘erica’s only real choice. _4 ' :

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PH! -

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2012

arts&|ife

 

February got you down‘?!

...Cynthz'a Lam has the cure, several little—kn0wn holidays to get excited about

By Cynthia Lam
COPY EDITOR

Oh. It’s February. This dreary real-
ization immediately brings to mind gm-
eling midterm exams and chubby, half-

the holidays you might have overlooked
last month in the hazy blur of January:
,SquirreI Appreciation Day (21st) —

naked cupids. After the hype of the New G’ tready to go nuts! Show some love

Year, the rest of the season pales in com- ,

parison to the excitement of the holi
Instead, we are left with stale Superbowl
wings, barely-existent snow ﬂurries, and
stubborn leftover pounds as we lazily
drag ourselves through winter term.
Luckily, the Ring-tum Phi has found
the cure for these Winter Blues, with
our innovative ways to celebrate lesser-
known national holidays. Forget about
Valentine’s Day — these wild and wacky
festivities will ﬁll each day with thrills
and excitement! Here are just a few of

or your favorite furry friends by wear-
ing plastic buckteeth and fuzzy brown
clothing from head to tail. For a truly
authentic wildlife experience, scurry
up oak trees, nibble on acorn cookies,
ﬁght off chipmunks, and dig random
holes in the back trails of the Blue Ridge
Moutains to bury your precious nuts.
After one day as a squirrel, you’ll never
want to go back to being a stressed-out
human college student again.
Measure Your Feet Day (23rd) — Go
all out by measuring your feet length,

width, size, surface area, and volume.
For extra fun, measure your friends’ feet.
Better yet, stop random people heading
to class on the Colonnade and measure
their feet. Footsie competition, anyone?

Belly Laugh Day (24th) ~ Do you
get annoyed when people laugh obnox-
iously loud? Well, today is your chance
to laugh just as loud by showing off
your deepest, rowdiest belly laugh. That
means throwing your arms up in the air,
doubling over in laughter, and shak-
ing uncontrollably on the ground every
chance you get. But don’t stop here —
text LOL!!!, ROFL!!!, and LMAO!!! in
bold, size 36 font all day long to share
your belly laugh with everyone. Laugh-

ing out loud has never been more fun.
Bubble Wrap Appreciation Day
(25th) — Pop. Pop. Pop. We’re excited.
Are you? Line your dorm halls with
bubble wrap, and you’ll always be able
to tell when people come and go.
Thomas Crapper Day (27th) — As
the inventor of the toilet, Thomas Crap-
per is deﬁnitely one of our most under-
appreciated geniuses. Without him, life
would be pretty messy... but let’s not
even go there. To make it up, show Mr.
Crapper some love by singing “Happy
Birthday” to him every time you go to
the bathroom. , Thanks to him, we can
literally ﬁush our “troubles” away.
Insane Answering Machine Day

(30th) — Admit it. We’ve all been tricked
by those ridiculous messages. Well, to-
day it’s your turn to have some fun. Try
out these classic lines for a good laugh!

“Hey, this is WLUR, you’re on air.”

“Hello, this is the Rejection Hotline.
How can I help you?”

“Hi, I’m probably here, just avoiding
someone I don’t like. Leave a message,
and if I don’t call back, it’s you.”

Now that you’ve seen all the enticing
holidays you missed in January, keep an
eye out for the ones in February. Beans
(Dried and Fresh) Month, anyone?

Director relates prisoner’s tale

F ilm director Alexandra Sviridova spoke to students about the terrors of Gulag Labor Camps

By Anna DiBenedetto
STA F F wn we R

Renowned Russian ﬁlm director Al-
exandra Sviridova told Washington and
Lee students the story of a Gulag Labor
Camp prisoner who survived frigid win-
ters and cannibalistic fellow inmates.

In Leybum Library last Tuesday,

Sviridova recounted the experience of
Varlam Shalamov, a Russian writer who
was placed in the Gulag Labor Camp in
the Kolyma Region of Germany in 1937.
Kolyma is known for its six-month cold
winters with average temperatures of-10

degrees Fahrenheit. _

Shalamov’s wrote a book about his
time in the camp, Kolyma Tales. In it he
recalls how some prisoners were called
“pigs.” Pigs were veteran prisoners who
would befriend new prisoners by taking

them under his wing and looking out for
him. He would feed him extra pieces of
bread, and then in the winter, when there
food was scarce, the “pig” would kill the
less-experienced prisoner and feed on

his body.

Sviridova was born in Moscow in
1951 and has received numerous awards
for her work as a ﬁlmmaker and as an au-
thor. She was brought to campus on be-
half of the Russian area studies program.

  

 

' MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2012

p0 

S'l‘EPIIE1 I PIECK

 

 

'3 ANDREW 1:I:1\fAI.Iu)

Jeremy Lin, the new point guard extraordinaire for the New
York Knicks, has been the hottest topic in the NBA for the past
week. The “Linsanity” keeps growing with each game, as Lin not
only continues to put on stellar performances, but has also led the
Knicks to ﬁve straight victories—despite missing marquee players
Carmelo Anthony and Amar’e Stoudemire. The fact that Lin has

 
 

"LAD

 

There are two Jeremy Lins. There is Jeremy Lin the player.
And there is Jeremy Lin the phenomenon.

Their combined effects have instilled life in New York bas-
ketball and have clearly shown that the formula for the Knicks’
success should rely on a heavy dose of number 17, and not
their overpaid superstars, Carmelo Anthony and Amar’e Stou-
demire.

 

galvanized the team with these two stat-happy stars on the bench
has led some to believe that the Knicks may be better when Lin
is the focal point. However, while Anthony and Stoudemire do
need to adjust their playing style upon returning to the lineup, ana-
lysts should not get carried away. Lin will remain integral to the
Knicks’ success, but the team should still revolve around Carmelo
and Amar’e.

For those who missed it, Jeremy Lin emerged from obscurity

I iAlf€. the .Knicks better off with Jeremy Lin in
tth‘e;;-lineup, or Carmelo Anthony and Amar’e
  '~ 1  - Stoudemire?

‘Stephen: Andrew give you their two) cents.

Lin’s style of play is not overpowering. He doesn’t overwhelm
with a single skill. It doesn’t matter. Jeremy Lin, the player, is
exactly what this Knicks team needs to win.

Head coach Mike D’Antoni’s. up-tempo system relies on fast
breaks and pick-and-rolls. D’Antoni wants to force the defense
to run around, then exploit the split second when they are off
balance. D’Antoni’s system needs a point guard who is patient,

last week to lead a struggling Knicks’ team back to relevance.
Some may remember him from his days at Harvard or from his ”
brief stint with the Golden State Warriors, but most knew little about him until he recently cata-
pulted to Tebow-esque levels of fame and popularity (if you need proof, he’s already the first sug-
J gested search when you type “je” into Google). In addition to distributing the ball well, Lin has
shown an incredible scoring touch. After scoring 25 points against the Nets, he added 28 points
(and a blue-gatorade—tinged-tongue-out celebration) against the Jazz, and a whopping 38 points
against the Lakers. With each game, Lin convinces more fans that his rise is no fluke.
The Knicks have succeeded over the past ﬁve games due to Lin’s ability to fulﬁll his team’s
needs from the point guard position rather than his ability to replace Anthony and Stoudemire.
Knicks coach Mike D’Antoni prefers an up-tempo style that puts a premium on the point guard’s

play that utilizes his decision-making skills. Lin offers D’Antoni a point guard with the desired
poise and versatility to control games. This attribute, and not his scoring, has helped the Knicks
the most. Despite Lin’s impressive numbers, his performances should be kept in perspective.
Without detracting from his amazing run, Lin may not be able to maintain his scoring pace
against the Eastern Conference’s best teams. The Knicks will need an elite, crunch-time scorer
like Anthony to compete with the Miami Heats of the world, even if his shots translate into fewer
scoring opportimities for Lin. Lin has excelled against a few bottom—dwellers as well as several
good teams, but the Knicks need extra offensive ﬁrepower to beat the best.

Many think Anthony’sstyle of play will not ﬁt with Lin’s, but there’s reason to believe Lin’s
game will complement both Anthony’s and Stoudemire’s skill sets. Prior to his injury, Anthony
had been scoring loads of points, but inefficiently. He took lots of shots and slowed the Knicks’
pace by demanding the ball in half-court sets. In fairness to Carmelo, though, he had to assume
an unaccustomed role of point forward during the Knicks’ search for a competent point guard.
When he returns, Anthony will have to be content with having less of a creative role and allowing
the ball to be more oﬁen in Lin’s hands. In return, Lin’s ability to penetrate defenses should give
Anthony more open looks on kick-outs. Even more enticing is the prospect of Lin combinin
with Stoudemire on pick-and-rolls (Stoudemire’s favorite). During their time in Phoenix (wit
D’Antoni as their coach), Steve Nash and Amar’e ran pick-and-rolls to devastating effect. Lin
may not quite be at Nash’s level, but his style is similar and should keep Stoudemire happy with
a steady supply’ of alley-oops.

To succeed, then, the Knicks need Lin, Anthony, and Stoudemire to adjust their styles in order
to suit each other’s strengths. Although easier said than done, this collection of players can deﬁ-
nitely thrive together. Lin has starred during the latter two’s absence, but the Knicks will need all

, three to be in top form to contend for an NBA championship.

command of the game. While Lin is not a fast-break machine, he excels at the pick-and-roll, a .

who is a supreme ball handler, who is constantly looking for
the open man, and who can hit the open jumper when it is
there. _ . ' ‘

He had Steve Nash in Phoenix. He now has Jeremy Lin in New York.

Granted, the former is a seven-time all star, two-time MVP, and sureﬁre Hall of Famer,
and the latter has only started four NBA games. But the similarities are there. And the suc-
cess when the system works is there as well. ‘ -

Lin can score on his own. His drives to the hoop are whirling, spinning, works of art in
which he usually ﬂies-into the paint, absorbs contact and ﬁnishes with a ﬁnger roll layup.
He makes it look easy. i

But what makes Lin.so important to this revitalized Knicks team is his ability to distrib-
ute. Instead of crawling into a half court set, and waiting for Carmelo to break down his
defender one on one, the rest of the Knicks are involved. Tyson Chandler is on the receiving
end of a handful of alley oops from Lin each game. Iman Shumpert of all people is suddenly
a viable offensive option. Games are now a team effort for the Knicks. ‘

And the rest of the Knicks are excited. They seem to love to play with Lin because he gen-
uine_ly seems to enjoy himself on the court. Which leads us to Jeremy Lin, the phenomenon.

Lin is a walking Disney movie. He is an Asian-American from California and was lightly
recruited coming out of high school. He ended up at Harvard and went undrafted coming
out of college. He was picked up and cut by Houston and Golden State and was toiling in the
D-League before an injury to Chauncey Billups gave him a chance in New York.

Four games, four wins, and 109 points later (the most points scored in a player’s ﬁrst four
starts ever), Linsanity has gripped America.

He’s hard not to like. He plays with enthusiasm. He’s humble, soft-spoken, and deeply
religious. He scores. He passes. He wins.

So many people are rooting for him. And that includes the rest of the Knicks. The team
appears simultaneously energized and relaxed. They seem involved in every possessionnow,
instead of sleepwalking down the court and letting Carmelo and Amar’e force up shots.

Carmelo and Amar’e are supreme talents, but the Knicks are better off with Lin running
the show. Because the reality is, as cliché as it sounds, teams are better than individuals.

Jeremy Lin won’t lightup the scoreboard every night. He was outplayed by Ricky Rubio
when New York played Minnesota on Saturday night.

But the-Knicks are winning. And they are winning the right way with the right player on
the court. And that players last name is Lin, and not Anthony or Stoudemire.

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2012

sports

 

ondeck

  

 

in the numbers

The number of personal bests for the women’s track team in

Total number of points New York Knick Jeremy Lin has scored in

1

1

back—to—back meets.

1(H9

his ﬁrst four career starts. This is an NBA record.

Total number of golfers with 40 career PGA tour wins after Phil

Mickelson won the Pebble Beach National Pro—Am on Sunday.

Total number of goals scored in the African Cup of Nations title

game. Zambia defeated Ivory Coast 8-7 after penalty kicks..

"We’re a poor road team, and that’s what
we need to turn around. If we couldﬁgure

9

1

~soapbox

5

out a way to win games on the road, our
record would be much, much better. ”

—- LaliarKoboBryanta1'lnrtheLalorswon]usttheIr1Il'ﬂi

madnmoofuioseaeon.11ieLakarsara16-12on1he
season,fiomsl.com

“It's certainly [Boehim’s] deepest team.

 

Women's T&F strong at Naval Academy

F ugate, Macldisorz, and Schultz lead team at Navy Sweetheart Meet

vsil.‘ '

MON Tues FRI SAT E¥AC:=ti:,VeRn,r;EEiRT'nney
I The women’s track and ﬁeld team had sev— First-years Janey Fugate, Jillian Katterhagen, in the meet. _

Men 5 EM eral strong performances at the Navy Sweet- sophomore Annelise Madison, and senior Nat- Schultz took fourth in the 3,000 by running
Basketball 7‘°°p'“ heart Meet this past Thursday. alie Stier combined to place fourth. a time of 10:44.38. The next day she, along
Womenis vs vs vs The meet consisted of two other Division Other strong performances include Madi- with sophomore Brandie Huffman, was hon-
Basketball ‘E&H Lynchburg Randolph 111 track programs and three Division I track son in the mile, Katterhagen in the pole vault, ored by United States Track and ‘Field and

7009"‘ 7-°°P'“ 4'°°Pm programs. James Madison University, Johns and junior Lauren Schultz in the 3,000 meter Cross Country Coaches Association. They
Menrs Fe:/ram at CNU Hopkins University, Navy, Loyola, and Mc- run. . . both are Division III All-academic honorees
Lacrosse 5:00pm 1:00pm Daniel all brought their women s teams to the Madison ran a time of 5:15.35 to place sec- for their performances during the cross coun-

all-female meet. ond. It is the fastest mile run in the Old Do- try season.
W0men'S Action for the Generals was highlighted by minion Athletic Conference all season. The women’s track and field team will be
Lacrosse a new school record. The Generals established Katterhagen also leads the ODAC in her back in action at the ODAC championships on
the sprint medley relay with a time of 4:28.40. event. She vaulted 3.15 meters to place fourth February 24.
Men’; Bluegrass Bluegrass Bluegrass I l , l I J 
S _ , Mountain Mountain Mountain I - 
W'mm”‘9 Champs Champs Champs »
Men's L ncfburg 3:.” . Iv . - . 4. .. ’.  1  :_  _
Tennis 3:30 pm 2=00pfn  ~_  ‘ - * . . . . . ,1.  I”
vs Bridge— _.,W W agz , Hi I >3 "‘  ‘
1 women’s Racilfsord . isaii/iiioaim   -9- -— - 1 L i 0 '+-'.': ".. IL- _  
Tennis 4:30pm 1:00pm ii 1 2  4 l 
.. A « '  .‘=‘i“' r  i’ ’ Y —
. WT‘-' T ' """ '” t,   -

LEIGH DANNHAUSER / Sports editor

Tallman runs into record books

Generals continue to break records as the ODAC championships loom closer

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s men’s track and ﬁeld
team continues to break records on its way to
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionships.

Two more records fell yesterday at the
Bucknell Winter Classic, the last meet before
the ODAC championships.

Sophomore Zander Tallman broke both the
200m record and the 400m record, en route to
placing ﬁrst among Division III competitors in

both events. Tallman also placed ﬁrst overall
in the 400. »

Tallman ran the 400m in a time of 49.06.
Not only was this a school record, but the time
places him among the Top 10 for all Divi-
sion 111 runners in the event this season. He
also holds the top ranking in the ODAC in the
event.

In the 200, Tallman ran a time of 22.31 to
place third overall. First-year Aaron J eong ran

a time of23.34 in the same event to place third
among Division III competitors.

Other notable performances include Matt
Gossett’s mile time of 4:25.67 _to place fourth
and Kane Thomas’ 800m time of 1:59.09 to
put him in the ODAC.

The Generals return to the track on Febru-
ary 24 when they compete for the ODAC title.

Women's swimming leading ODACs

After 2 days of competition, the Generals boast a lead of almost 200 points

By Leigh Dannhauser
spoars EDlTOR

After two days of competition and three
broken school records, the women’s swim
team headed into the last day of the ODAC
swimming championships, leading with a
score of 658 points. Randolph-Macon was in
second with 489 points, and Sweet Briar was
in third with 244 points.

The ﬁrst day of the three-day meet was
highlighted with a new school record in the
400 medley relay. Seniors Jocelyn Cassada
and Dana Fredericks teamed up with sopho-

more Meredith Hardy and ﬁrst-year Caroline

 

Hamp to swim a time of3:59.44. The astound-
ing performance set a meet record.

The Generals also won the 200 free relay
and the 500m freestyle. The 200 free relay
team consisted of Cassada, Fredericks, Hardy,
and junior Izzy Brassﬁeld. Junior Delaney
Rolfe won the 500m free.

Two more records were broken on the sec-
ond day of competition as the girls surged for-
ward, smashing the 800 free relay and the 100
breast times.

The 800 free relay team consisted of Rolfe,
tr; :1 .1 - ' ;,,. - .. 

Hardy, senior Elizabeth Stames, and sopho-
more Lauren Kasoff. They swam a time of
7:49.1 to break the school record, the meet re-

. cord, and the ODAC record.

Fredericks broke the 100 breast record with
a time of 1:07.47.

The Generals continued to compete on
Sunday with preliminaries in the morning
and ﬁnals at night. Results from either session
were not available.

  

  

 

Whether or not it’s his best team, rest of
the season will tell you that. I have not seen
one of his teams be deeper than they are.”

-Uoonnhslstantﬂead coach Geome Blaneyabouulm
Boohlmandthosymcusobaskalbelltaamafiiaruieomnao
beatthoHusldesonSaundqy,fromS|.oom

PHOTO COURTES OF GENERALSSPOTSCOM

 

