 

I.

 

xvi |."f(!qw"‘l- -. qt;
1 » .

“n - 3 ,. .’i'4

I     Know nothing about Knox?   P

  

or>iNioNst/pégelzsltfilji

Rock Against Rape
Concert at Davidson Park promotes
education and prevention of sexual assault
‘ on campus.

ARTS & LIFE / page 4

MONDAY, OCTOBER 10,2011

WASHINGTON min LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

IT IHE ‘SIIIJDEHTS RID FIJI THE SYUIIEIIS SIIIEE I59? VOLUMECXV,NUMBER5

Remembering
R.E. Lee

Virginia Tech professor

commemorates Lee is life

By Tommy Kent
5 TA F F w R IT E R

In honor of Robert E. Lee, Dr. James 1. Robertson
Jr., Alumni Distinguished Professor of History Emeri-
tus at Virginia Tech, will give a lecture Monday titled
“Lee and the Mobilization ofVirginia Forces in 1861”
in Lee Chapel.

Robertson’s address will focus on both the sesqui-
centennial anniversary of the Civil War and the 141st
anniversary of Lee’s death, which occurred on Octo-
ber l2, 1870.

Linda Donald, the manager of Lee Chapel and mu-
seum, helped coordinate the address and planned for
the arrival of Dr. Robertson.

Donald said, “There are fewer and fewer Lee schol-
ars. For many years, Lee was an American icon. Over
the past 15 years, that has begun to change. He is not
viewed as highly as he once was.”

Lee was the 11th Presidentof Washington College
and accomplished a great deal. During his ﬁve year
term, Donald ‘said, Lee increased the student body
from 40 to 400 students, introduced the honor system,
started the speaking tradition, increased the faculty
ﬁve-fold, and ordered the construction of Lee Chapel
and Lee House.

Reﬁecting on Lee’s one rule, that every man must
be a gentleman, Donald said, “He required of himself
and others: discipline, honor, duty, and civility. If we
had a country that operated on those principles we
would have a different world to live in. He led by
example.”

Several students also thought about what remem-
bering Lee might mean.

“He brought the honor system to W&L‘ and the

. school wouldn’t be the same without it. We celebrate

and commemorate a lot of things here but Lee is prob-
ably the most important. I don’t know ifpeople really
understand the history of Lee,” said Weining Bai ’13.

“It is important to remember Robert E. Lee because
he embodies the honor and traditions that we hold in
high regard. By remembering him, we can make the
intangible idea of honor something concrete that plays
a real role in our lives,” said Cort Hammond ’ 15.

One student commented on how Lee might view
W&L today:

“He would be happy that the honor system is trea-
sured so highly. He would probably not be impressed
by the large consumption of spirituous liquors and the
way that some men treat women,” said Zan Reed ’ 15.

Donald commented on the legacy of Lee and
whether or not he would want to be remembered.

“I don’t think Lee would really care. He was a
pretty humble human being. I don’t think he ever
knew why he was held to such a high level. During his
last 5 years he created a legacy for himself,” she said.

In addition to the lecture, Dr. Robertson will have
a book signing for the October 18 release of his new
book entitled “The Untold Civil War”. Admission to
the lecture is free and open to the public.

Remarking on how Lee was viewed bystudents
during his days as President, Donald said, “Most stu-
dents wrote that he was demanding but also a father
ﬁgure. You wanted to do better. You wanted to please
him. Hejust inspired people.”

Donald said that it was fairly common for small
private liberal arts schools to fail. She said, “If Lee
had not come here it is quite possible that the college
would not have survived.”

ehind the crackdown

Student shares her 0- Week experience with the Lexington police department

By Kelly Mae Ross
5 TA F F w R IT E R

It was Orientation Week at Washington and Lee,
and that meant it was time for the annual O-Week
parties at Old House, the Lambda Chi Alpha off-
campus house located a few doors down from the
local police station.

It was a party night like any other for one W&L
junior, except shefd heard rumors that the police
had been busting more parties than usual lately and
arresting more students for alcohol-related offens-
es. This was in the back of her mind as she walked
down Washington Street towards Old House, the
music from the party becoming clearer and clearer.

The student got to the party, had a few drinks,
and was having a great time. Then the police
showed up and told all of the students inside not to
leave the house.

After about 30 minutes of waiting, ofﬁcers told
the students to exit the house single-ﬁle and load
onto the Traveller buses waiting outside.

This particular student, however, never made
it onto Traveller. Because she was underage and
drunk v as are many partygoers at W&L — she was
arrested and had to spend the night injail.

“I totally own up to the fact that I was doing
something illegal. I was drinking and I’m underage
— okay, ﬁne. But it was the way that they handled
it and their conduct, like how they were treating all
the kids, it was just absurd,” said the student, who
asked that her name not be used.

According to an article written by Courtney
Ridenhour and published in The Rockbridge Re-
port, 43 partying students were arrested during the
ﬁrst 19 days students were back in Lexington this
year, including O-Week.

The article said arrest numbers from the ﬁrst 19
days of last year were not available, but “only 65
students were charged for similar violations the en- -
tire calendar year.”

Members of the campus community have taken
notice of this string of arrests, including Woodie
Hillyard, president of the W&L Interfratemity
Council.

“After all of the interactions with the local
law enforcement during the ﬁrst week I felt like it
would be a good idea to meet with them, and I’m
trying to form more of an ongoing relationship with
them,” said Hillyard.

The higher number of arrests was a topic ad-
dressed speciﬁcally at the IFC’s Sept. 19 meeting,
according to the meeting minutes. The minutes
state that Dean Sidney Evans has scheduled week-

ly meetings with the local chief of police. Hillyard
will also be having regular meetings with local law
enforcement ofﬁcials. i

The Ofﬁce of Student Affairs, the IFC and the
Student Judicial Council are all taking steps to cre-
ate a more open line of communication between
students and law enforcement. '

Hillyard said the police have expressed willing-
ness to come talk to members of each fraternity, but
it is up to the presidents to establish contact with
the police and schedule a time for a meeting.

A mandatory meeting was recently held in Lee
Chapel where members of the local police and
sheriff’s oﬁice spoke to ﬁrst-year students about
rules and expectations. SIC Chair Matt Simpson
also spoke at the meeting.

Sarah Scaﬁidi, a ﬁrst-year student who attended
the meeting, said, “[The members ofthe police de-
partment and sheriff’s ofﬁce] were just trying to
emphasize that this year because they’ve been out
more we tend to think that they’re out to get us but
they’re really not~they’rejust here to protect us.”

Scaﬁidi said that the atmosphere ofthe meeting
was “pretty relaxed.”

At one point someone asked all of the students
in attendance that were 21 or older to raise their
hands. The only one who raised his hand was
Simpson, proving the point that almost everyone
in the chapel at that time was under the legal drink-
ing age.

“They said they were going to treat us like
adults and they want us to respect them as well,"
said Scafﬁdi.

Both students and law enforcement ofﬁcials
have mentioned a lack of respect as something that
is fueling the tension in the two groups relationship
with each other.

According to the article from The Rockbridge
Report, local law enforcement officials and W&L’s
director of public safety agree that there has been
more disrespect by students towards ofﬁcers this
year than there has been in the past.

Hillyard said that most of the students he talks
to tend to deny allegations of disrespect, but that
doesn’t mean the issue isn’t a concern for him.

“I really would love to get more interaction be-
tween the police and students because if they can
get to know us in a sober environment they’ll know
that we’re all respectful people and they’ll think
twice about arresting a student if they know that
there are some great students at W&L,” said Hill-

yard.

Hillyard also said that he became a bit more
skeptical of some of the O-Week horror stories he
has heard after meeting with Police Captain A.M.
“Bucky” Miller. Hillyard said Miller has been in
Lexington for a long time and he knows “how the
system works” with students, partying and the po-
lice.

Both Hillyard and the student who was recently
arrested at Old House have ideas for improving the
relationship between the police and W&L students.

The IFC is making a big push this term to en-
courage fraternities to hold more of their parties in
town (as opposed to in the country), said Hillyard.

But the recently arrested student said that she
believes that an increase in arrests by police will
lead to students wanting to party farther away from
town, which means farther away from the police.

“People are going to want to get out to the coun-
try. And that could be even more dangerous, like
going out there and you don’t have a ride and then
are people going to drink and drive more?” she
said.

Moving parties back into town and encourag-
ing fraternities to meet with members of local law
enforcement are steps that the IFC and the Ofﬁce of
Student Affairs are supporting, but there is a bigger
initiative that Hillyard said students should keep in
mind when they decide to go out.

“I think the average student just kind of needs
to live up to the expectations set forth by being a
member of our school. Be respectful. Carry your-
self as a lady or a gentleman. I think if we all kind
of followed that, that relationship will improve a
lot,” he said.

As for the student who was arrested at Old
House during O-Week, she is still in the midst of
sorting out just what her punishment will be. The
school placed her on 52 weeks of academic pro-
bation, ﬁned her $100 and had her take the online
AlcoholEdu course again.

She has a court date later this month, and she
hopes that the judge will allow her to participate
in something called the First Offender Program,
which would ultimately erase this underage drink-
ing charge from her record after a completion of
community service hours and a probation period.

“There have to be improvements,” said the ar-
rested student. “I know what I did was wrong 
but I think there [are] issues on both sides.”

Simpson remembered

Passing of art professor reminds students of her effect on Washington and Lee

By John Paul Beall
STAFF WRITER

As the ﬁrst female professor at Washington and
Lee, Professor Pamela Simpson had a lot of obsta-
cles to overcome.

According to Professor George Bent, Art De-
partment Chair, Simpson had no women’s bath-
room in the building where she worked. She was
one of the ﬁrst faculty member that had to balance
raising children with teaching.

But Simpson overcame and stuck with W&L for
almost 40 years.

By the time W&L went co-ed in 1984-1985,
Simpson had been here for 11 years, received ten-
ure, chaired the Art Department and served as the
Assistant Dean of the College. She was the ﬁrst
woman to do each.

As Associate Dean, she was charged with chair-
ing the Coeducation Committee, the body that con-
sidered and implemented all the changes that need-
ed to be made in order to accept women to W&L.
This included changes in curriculum like how to
include female vocalists in choir, women’s athlet-
ics, student life, parties, theater and music, extra-
curricular activities, infrastructure for all academic
buildings, dorms and sororities.

“Every woman on our campus today owes a
debt of gratitude to Pam Simpson,” Bent said.

Simpson was also active in the community. She
chaired the Lexington Historical Society, and was
a board member of Project Horizon and an active
member in the Rockbridge Chapter of NOW, the

National Organization for Women. She was an ac-
tive historic preservationist, even for communities
she had never seen.

In art department, Simpson played an integral
part in building up the departments for the arts,
Bent said. He called Wilson Hall and the Lenfest
Center “the house that Pam built.”

One of the programs Simpson spearheaded cel-
ebrated its thirtieth anniversary this year. Simpson
helped found and coordinate the Virginia Program
at Oxford, which sends students from six Virginia
colleges to England every summer.

Although Simpson’s illness prevented her from
attending that program’s celebration, she didn’t let
her cancer stop her academic career. She was teach-
ing three classes this term with the assistance of a
grad student even though, according to Professor
Ted Delaney, she did not expect to live past the end
of the year.

In addition to all she was doing here on campus,
she continued her work with her charities. When
she celebrated her 65th birthday this September,
she asked that her friends make a donation to one
of the charities she supported.

Delaney said, “There must have been half of
Lexington there at the party.”

Simpson kept her ties strong with both past and
present students. lane Lee Forster, one of the first
female generals, said Simpson was like a mother to
her and she was one of the reasons that she and her

family decided to move back to Lexington.

At this fall’s convocation, Simpson took the op-
portunity to speak and deliver a little more moth-
erly advice to the W&L community.

Though she could not stand for prolonged peri-
ods of time, she wanted to deliver her convocation
speech“Reﬁections on White Columns” so badly
that she sat on a stool at the podium rather than
decline to participate.

She told the students and professors there:-

“What can we learn from all this? One lesson is
that what we so value today came together over a
period of several hundred years. Each generation
built on the past. What resulted was not only a col-
lection of historic, distinguished buildings, (which
we are now working hard to restore) we also ended
up with a symbol. This is who we are. When we
think of our most deeply held value's~—academic
excellence, collegiality, civility, and most of all,
honor, all of them are embodied here.

...We might take our lesson from the Univer-
sity motto that while not unmindful of the future,
we also are also not unmindful of our past. You
stand on the shoulders of giants as well as ordinary
people and as you begin this academic year, you
should think about your role in continuing and con-
tributing to that legacy. What will you do in these
sacred spaces? How will you continue to shape its
meaning?”

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011

up

  

0C'III201I

inions

 

Amanda Knox’s return to freedom

After four

_  years in an Ital-
‘  ian prison, twen-
ty-four year old
Seattle native
Amanda Knox
returned state-
, side on October
’  4th to the comin-
I‘ . gled cheers and
horror of all who

 

 

had followed

g the Meredith

"  ’ Kercher murder
Bymhewlelss trials. A brief

C D L U M N I S T
pI‘E3SS conference

took place upon Knox’s arrival, in which
she stated, “I’m really overwhelmed
right now. I was looking down from the
airplane, and it seemed like everything
wasn’t real.”

The grim reality of the past four years
tells the story of a girl who traveled to
Italy to study language. Amanda Knox
was a student at the University of Wash-
ington before she decided to attend the
University for Foreigners in Perugia for
one year. In September of 2007, Knox
moved into her new Italian apartment.
It was then that she met her new room-
mate, Meredith Kercher.

What happened next was what one
"might expect of a young woman study-
ing abroad. Knox became a waitress to

‘pay for her new Italian lifestyle. She

earned top grades. She became fast
friends with her roommate, and, while
attending a concert with Kercher, she
met a man named Raffaele Sollecito,
Meanwhile, as Knox began to spend
time with her new boyfriend, Kercher
started to associate with the men who
lived in the apartment beneath hers. A
friend of these men, Rudy Guede, took
an interest in Kercher. Guede had a his-
tory of breaking into private property
and had lately been doing so while armed
with a knife. What happened next would
begin the four-year long saga of how an

American student became involved in

one of the most publicized murder trials
of ourtime. '

On the night of November lst, 2007,
Meredith Kercher was at a friend’s
home, and Amanda Knox was supposed
to be working at Le Chic Pub. Twenty
minutes after eight o’clock, Amanda
received a message from her boss, Pat-
rick Lumumba, which excused her from
work that night. Shortly after she replied

to that text, Amanda turned her phone
off. Just before nine o’clock, Meredith
left her friend’s residence in order to re-
tire to her apartment, and Amanda was
spotted at Sollecito’s apartment. After
that, the fragmented facts point out that
Sollecito also turned his cell phone off
for the night, that Sollecito researched
bleach on his computer, that Rudy Guede
was in Kercher’s bedroom, and that, at
some point, the apartment belonging to
Kercher and Knox was ransacked and
one of the windows was shattered.

Returning home the next afternoon,
Amanda found the front .door of her
apartment open. She called Kercher, but
there was no answer. She walked around
for a bit, perusing the damage done to
the apartment. After an hour, Sollecito,
who was with Knox at the time, got
around to calling the police. When the
Carabinieri arrived, they found the pair
waiting outside of the apartment with a
mop and a bucket. Rudy Guede, it was
later discovered, had already boarded a
train to Germany.

Meredith Kercher’s body was found
beneath a bloody duvet in her bedroom.
Signs of struggle and sexual abuse were
present. She bore 47 injuries. Not sur-
prisingly, the ofﬁcial cause of death was
blood loss.

The next few days yielded an in-
tense period of investigation, the fruit of
which included a signed statement from
Knox that she had been at her apartment,
and had seen her boss, Lumumba, enter
Kercher’s bedroom. During that initial
questioning, Knox was high, and insist-
ed upon doing yoga in the interrogation
room. When one of the officers asked if
she could do _a cartwheel, she proved that
she could.

The next day, Knox changed her
mind, claiming that she had been abused
during interrogation and had made un-
true statements. The fact that she had
lied was later veriﬁed when an eyewit-
ness testiﬁed that Lumumba had been at
the pub all night. .

Knox’s next story was that she had
spent the entire night at Sollecito’s apart-
ment, smoking marijuana and sleeping.
For this reason, she couldn’t “fully re-
call” the events that took place that
night. Sollecito, acknowledging thatlhe
and Knox had been at his apartment that
night, admitted that it was possible that
Knox could have left the apartment that
night while he was asleep.

MANAGING
NEWS
OPINIONS
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

‘I£i.autcn1¢.uoI£iLbnr.as:n'

THE RING-TUM PHI.

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
JAYNA JOHNS
ERIN SCHWARTZ
JAMES BIEMILLER
NEIL HAGGERTY
CHAUNCEY BAKER
DANIELLE HURLEY
JOHN PAUL BEALL

Meanwhile, Guede had left word
that he knew he would be a suspect, and
he had only left in order to make time
to clear his name. Before he could ac-
complish his task, however, he was ap-
prehended and extradited to Italy.

After his extradition, Guede testiﬁed
that he was at Kercher’s apartment on
the night of the murder, and that the two
had been having consensual sex. Later
that night, Amanda had come home,
and he had excused himself to go to the
bathroom. Kercher began to argue with
Amanda, claiming that Knox had sto-
len money from her. In order to avoid
listening to the argument, Guede turned
on his iPod, and continued to listen to
music until he heard a scream. When he

Allie Weiss describes how Amanda Knox is return to the United States has brought a mix of applause and horror

with the murder of Meredith Kercher,
as well as staging the break-in to cast
suspicion upon others. Knox received a
25 year sentence; Sollecito received a 26
year sentence.

In the months that followed, Knox
claims that she was sexually abused by
prison guards. This statement hasn’t
been met with much doubt, as Knox’s
beauty was a large part of what made
the trial so highly publicized. Journalist
Nina Burleigh asserts, “Our obsession
with female evil, our fascination with
the possibility of a depraved criminal
hiding behind a pretty face, drove the
coverage of this case, eliciting innuendo
as fact, and excluding at least half of the
narrative.” Indeed, Knox’s beauty isn’t

Some reporters have referred to the college student

as a sort of femme fatale, whose virtuous face masks

a more sinister personality. Others have painted her

as an angelic victim of circumstance, a lovely young

girl who was simply in the wrong place at the wrong

time.

 

ran to Kercher’s bedroom, he was struck
by an unidentiﬁed man, and fell. It was
then that Amanda and the man ran away.
After that, Kercher, who was bleeding
on her bedroom floor, tried to speak to
Guede. But, knowing he’d be suspect in
her murder, he ﬂed.

However, despite his argument that
he did not kill Kercher, Guede elected
for a Fast-Track trial, which allowed
an immediate decision to be made con-
cerning his guilt based on the evidence
provided at the time (Guede’s DNA
was found on Kercher’s body and pos-
sessions, and his bloody handprint was
found on her pillow). This kind oftrial is
reserved for those who, if found guilty,
will be entitled to a shorter sentence. He
was found guilty of the murder of Mer-
edith Kercher, and sentenced to 16 years
in prison.

Knox and Sollecito, meanwhile, de-
cided to undergo a standard trial. The
evidence against them included a knife
found at Sollecito’s apartment which had
Kercher’s DNA on the blade and Knox’s
DNA on the handle, Kercher’s bra clasp
which had Sollecito’s DNA on it, and
bloody footprints which were matched
to Knox and Sollecito that, authorities
discovered, had been scrubbed clean
(Luminol, a substance which reveals
bloodstains even after they have been
washed away, revealed the prints). In
October 2008, the couple was charged

something that has gone unnoticed by
the world. Some reporters have referred
to the college student as a sort of femme
fatale, whose virtuous face masks a more
sinister personality. Others have painted
her as an angelic victim of circumstance,
a lovely young girl who was simply in
the wrong place at the wrong time.

In fact, Knox’s looks were a key
player in her success at the appeals
courts. After U.S. DNA experts voiced
their skepticism and called for a reex-
amination of key evidence, Knox’s case
was reopened. Such facts were admit-
ted to seriously call into question the
strength of the DNA evidence. Some
of the evidence was not admitted until
a month after the murder, during which
time the crime scene was riddled with
investigators who weren’t always cau-
tious about contamination. According
to the New York Post, there were sev-
eral main -reasons for discarding the
evidence: the knife with Kercher’s and
Knox’s DNA contained such a miniscule
amount of DNA that it couldn’t deﬁni-
tively be matched to Kercher, Kercher’s
bra clasp had been admitted into evi-
dence too late for it to be viable, Knox’s
DNA hadn’t been located in Kercher’s
bedroom (though, in light of her having
been found with a bucket and a mop the
day after the murder, it might be perti-
nent to point out that her DNA hadn’t
been found in her own bedroom, either),

Looking for love

and the testimony produced from the ini-
tial interrogation had been the result of
physical abuse. But none of this amount-
ed to the deciding factor of one juror: “I
saw the faces of these two kids and they
couldn’t bluff. They didn’t bluff. My
point of view is that these kids weren’t
guilty.” Apparently, one look at Knox’s
face was all the juror needed to decide
that she would be acquitted that day.

After eleven hours of deliberations,
the jury ﬁnally released Amanda Knox.
Though the most recent examination
of DNA did not deﬁnitively exonerate
Knox, it weakened the evidence enough
to earn Knox her freedom.

Perhaps the truth about what hap-
pened that night will never become'pub-
lic knowledge. Authorities still suspect
that Guede had accomplices in killing
Meredith Kercher. The fact that Knox
has been cleared of all charges certainly
does not elicit forgiveness from those
who doubt her less-than-unchanging

tale. Nancy Grace reports, “I was very 

disturbed, because I think it is a huge
miscarriage of justice. I believe that
while Amanda Knox did not wield the
knife herself, I think that she was there,
with her boyfriend, and that hedid the
deed, and she egged him on.” Mean-
while, Burleigh disagrees, stating that
the only reason Knox was convicted in
the ﬁrst place was because of her “ap-
palling” treatment, and because of the
Italian court’s use of “evidence [that]
didn’t exist” which lead to the jury’s
“rubber-stamped conviction.”

Such speculation extends to Knox’s .

personal character. While her family is
quick to describe her as an honest per-
son and a dedicated student, her Italian
friends call her openly promiscuous and
drug-crazed. And though Knox’s school-
mates know her as the self-disciplined
vegan whose name was ever-present on
the dean’s list, Knox admits to having
had a bit ofa drug habit, even being high
on the night of the murder.

Now that Knox has returned home,
she states, “My family is the most im-
portant thing right now, and I just want '

to go and be with them.” In a later state— .

ment, her lawyer was heard saying, “We
are appreciative, thankful, and ever so
grateful to the appellate jurors for their
willingness to reopen and reexamine the
facts, to conduct a thorough and search-
ing inquiry into the true facts, which we
believe can only be characterized as pro-
foundly absent. It has been a trying and
grueling, nightmarish four-year mara-
thon that no child or parent should ever
have to endure.”

DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
STAFF CARTOONIST
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

and Lee community for

accountable. Through our
information that pr

THE RlNG—TUM PH_l is publi
the undergraduate school
PHI is a member of The
can be reached at media
welcomes all letters. We

edit submissions for conte
and advertising do not

WASHINGTON AND L

SUBSCRIPTION

KELLY MAE ROSS
TOMMY KENT

ALLIE WEISS
ANDREA SISO

ALI GREENBERG
STOCKTON BULLITT
JAMES BIEMILLER
SAMANTHA O'DELL
COLLEEN MOORE
ANGELA WILLIAMS
DESSIE OTASHLIYSKA
JULIANNA SATTERLY
COY FERRELL

GREG USSERY

MATT GOSSETT
DAVE WILSON

KANE THOMAS
DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington

students, faculty,

parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders

reporting, we aspire

to spark discussions that lead to discovering

ompts change.

shed Mondays during
year. THE RING—TUM
Media Board, which
board@wlu.edu, but

is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI

reserve the right to
nt and length. Letters
necessarily reflect

the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341

EE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540)458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU

RATE $45

  

The key to a satisfying life? Andrea Siso says following your passions

I saw a ﬁlm to-
day called “A French

  

 I»

P  Gigolo.” '
i There was a
woman, she was

_ ﬁfty. She was beau-
tiful/successﬁ1l/
divorced. She was
cynical, too. Tired of
men. Tired of love. ..
didn’t believe in it,
actually.

To stave off her
loneliness, she called
upon escorts, “once
or twice a month, at
most.”

She meets one escort, by chance, at a park

Byilndrea Siso
CCILUMNIST

them.

She ﬁnds his number through ‘one of the
escort services and calls him later, not know-
ing that it’s the same guy she shared her pre-
cious cigs with.

And she never realizes it. And he doesn’t
either, until he recognizes her. And they start
seeing each other regularly, after a ﬁght (she
treated him like, well, a gigolo. He didn’t like
that).

She kind of falls,.but doesn’t really let her-
self. He falls, too, but he’s married. It’s com-
plicated. It doesn’t end well.

I don’t want to end up like that — paying
for love, for company, for escaping that void
of Lack. And no, I don’t believe relationships
solve anything. But I believe love does.

I want to ﬁnd something that I truly love.

I have realized that] want to live so fully, so much, so bril-

liantly—I want to taste my days with a palate so honed, so

open, so...sensitive that it detects all the ﬂavors.
 

bench in Belle Paris. She doesn’t know what
he actually is, at the time. He asks her for
cigarettes (because, of course, they smoked
every ﬁve seconds in this movie).
Anyways, that’s how it started between

Something in life that I am passionate about,
that I stick to, that will ﬁll me. I don’t want to
end up crying over a proverbial gigolo.

But, it is difﬁcult.

John Mayer is now singing to me. He is

asking me, “What you gonna do about it?
What you gonna do about it? Don’t give up,
give up. Don’t give up, give up.” And really,
what will I do? ,

I have realized that I want to live so ﬁilly,
so much, so brilliantly — I want to taste my
days with a palate so honed, so open, so...
sensitive that it detects all the flavors. I ﬁnd
that I won’t be satisﬁed otherwise.

And I know where my passions lie — writ-
ing, reading, acting, dancing.

And I know where they should be — career,
career, career, career.

And I ﬁnd that_ it is easier to tell others to
pursue their own treasured loves, rather than
take that dive myself.

Sometimes, I sleep to dream - and in my
dreams, I call to Future. I ask her, “What will
become of me?” She’s ‘not yet answered.

"And I try to imagine what I would truly
wish for in the glimpses of knowledge I have
asked Future to relinquish.

Please, happiness. Please.

I wish I could ﬂip to the end of this chap-
ter, read those pages — like I could do in the
books I so voraciously devour. I wish I could
tell you the beginning to this end, as well.
But I am currently stalled in the midst of an
ocean.

But I have a paddle, it is resting on my
open palms. A map, a compass...

All I need is resolution.

 

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

  
   

 

 

opinions

, Opening nht, opemng up

From behind the scenes to center stage, Ali Greenberg leaves her comfort zone and ﬁnds the experience liberating

Lights go
out. Music goes
up. Spotlight.
Action. Break a
leg.

I have never
V acted before,
unless you
» ’ , count my brief
‘ stint as a tulip in
my kindergar-
' 7 ten play, or skits

   

_‘. . g I for Spanish
‘ . I class. But you
g:m'“G:::_1bErg shouldn’t count

either of those.

I have never been one who likes to be
in front of people and while I may write
loudly, I am actually really shy. If you
know me this may shock you, and if you

don’t you may wonder why someone
who is shy would write for the school
paper. I wonder myself sometimes.

So what you didn’t know about me is
that I have social anxiety. It has plagued
me my entire life, and despite being rela-

sit back and watch- hyperobservant it is
called. Just another one of my quirks I
guess.

But again, if you know me, then you
know I am not exactly quiet. My anxiety
goes away as soon as I have a buddy or

We all have fears, things we aren ’t good at, and things

we want to try. We only live once, so just go for it

tively cool by middle school standards,
I still stood alone at my l5—kid bus stop
for every day of 6th-8th grade, all be-
cause I was too nervous to talk to the
other students.

Growing up I was always quiet. Ob-
servant. Not scared but deﬁnitely cau-
tious. This persists today, as I tend to

if it is my job, like working in a restau-
rant or giving a tour. But throw me into a
situation where I have no familiar faces
and it really is sink or swim. I manage to
stay aﬂoat, but I can just barely doggie-
paddle. '
Knowing this, every year my resolu-
tion is the same. Push myself, leave my

comfort zone, talk to new people with-
out someone having to hold my hand.
Don’t be scared.

So when my friend asked me to be in
his play, I threw caution to the wind and
said I would audition. I got the part and
the next three weeks were a whirlwind.
Rehearsals just about every night, leam-
ing to act, meeting new people, typical
new experience stuff.

I suffered through improv warm-ups
where I conﬁrmed the fact that I don’t
have the comedy gene. I had to develop
a character that was “frumpy, immature,
annoying and a loser.” To top it off; she
was supposed to be a bird. And ﬁnally, I
got on stage night after night and made a
fool of myself in front of strangers.

It was scary, but I didn’t want to let
my friend down. I giggled once opening

Getting the MR degree

Is the stigma of being a “stay-at-home dad” worse than supporting a family? Columnist Stockton Bullitt thinks not

Life is hard
for the male
college student.
Classes are get-
ting more de-
manding. There
is the constant
balancing act of
chaying one’s

brains out and
‘ appeasing the
parents’ GPA
demand. Throw
in the sports
and other extra-
curricular ac-
tivities, and life gets even more difﬁcult.
Finally, there is the omnipresent future
job hanging over ones head. Ifthe male
college student doesn’t perform well
in college, then he surely will not land
a prestigious job, and therefore he will
not be able to one day support the family
that his mother more or less demands he
get. But does it necessarily have to be
that way? '

Like it or not, women are starting
to run shit. Look at Iceland: men ran
the government and the economy for
1,100 years and somehow bankrupted
the country from 2002-2008. Now the
mostly female Social Democrat party is
running the show, and by all accounts,
the lesbian Prime Minister, Johanna Sig-
uroardottir (yep, that’s her actual name),
is doing quite well running the country.
So while they are beginning to run shit
in the real world, they also run shit sta-
tistically. Women are proven to be better
managers of money than men (see: Ice-
land), and they have better SAT scores
across thecountry, not to mention a bet-
ter GPA on this campus. In other words,
the fairer sex is starting to look like the
superior sex.

So, what can we males do about this?

BySto-clcton Bullitt
cmumusr

We can either rely on our inherent su-
periority as males or we can embrace
it. The relying on our inherent superi-
ority worked for the first 35 years after
women got their “rights.” We still make
more money for doing the samethings,
and our sports matter more (unless you
are a diehard Minnesota Lynx fan). Not
only is that changing, but ever since the
2008 ﬁnancial collapse, it’s starting to
change more quickly. So, we’re left with
no decision other than to embrace these
smarter, more capable women.

Luckily enough, this rise of power-
ful women that will only keep growing
beneﬁts us college men in a direct way.
It gives us a way out.

Why worry about getting good
grades, a good job and supporting a sta-

games all day. I mean, when you look
at it, being a stay-at-home dad is just
pledgeship with cooking involved. You
need to sober drive the kids around, and,
as Louis CK. has already aptly pointed
out, toddlers act just like your drunk
friends. You need to clean the house and
make beds, which is much easier with-
out so many beer cans and features the
same proportions of throw up and poop
everywhere. And really, how hard can
cooking be? Just watch a couple hours of
the Food Network to cook for the wife,
and learn how to reheat chicken nuggets
and french fries for when the kids come
home. Boom. And that leaves multiple
hours for HBO and XBOX Live. Plus,
you don’t need to be embarrassed to tell
your friends about your livelihood be-

T his way, you can live the sweet frat life for ﬁfty

more years, and all you need to suﬂer is the stigma

of being a “stay-at-home dad. ”

ble family, when you can just piggyback
off of someone who is already statisti-
cally more capable of doing so? That is
why I think that instead of getting your
B.A. or B.S. degree at Washington and
Lee, you should instead focus on what’s
more lucrative in the long run: getting
your M.R. degree. While you’re in col-
lege, just ﬁnd a woman who will support
you throughout your adult life, and you
are golden. This way, you can live the
sweet frat life for ﬁfty more years, and
all you need to suffer is the stigma of be-
ing a “stay-at-home dad.”

But is being a stay-at-home dad re-
ally all that bad? The strategy seems to
work for Will Amett in NBC’s new “Up
All Night.” All he does in that show is
take care of an infant and play video

cause all you need to do is use Fantasy
Football to give you job titles. You can
tell them that you are a trader (because
how else is Fred Jackson going to get
onto your team), an analyst (dissecting
three hours of watching “Fantasy Focus”
and reading Matthew Berry deﬁnitely
takes some analyzing) or in mergers
and acquisitions (what else would you
call the genius move of picking up Da-
vid Nelson on the waiver wire in Week
Two?).

But how do you go about ﬁnding and
holding onto the golden ticket that is
the SL1CC€SSﬁ.ll wife that you can piggy
back off of for decades‘? Well, I may not
know all the answers yet because 1 am
still doing plenty of research, but I do
have some quality answers to a couple

of questions you might be asking.

I. How do I get an heiress?

An heiress is a pretty bold move, but
if you have enough game, there might be
a future in it for you. First, you need to
ﬁnd out which girls are heiresses. First
start with the cars. If you see a BMW,
Lexus or Mercedes, you know that you
have a good chance of ﬁnding an heir-
ess. Don’t get distracted by ﬂashier
models because those might just be inse-
cure dads trying desperately to buy their
daughter’s love with a single purchase.
A BMW, Lexus or Mercedes shows that
the car purchase was just another in a
line of many. Next, look at the clothes. If
they come in Nieman Marcus bags only
and they all are made by names and not
companies (e.g. Ferragamo is a name,
Macy’s is a company), then you know
you are on the right path. Last, Google
her last name and “executive” and do
a little background research. If you get
enough hits, you know you have an heir-
ess.

After you know what you are looking
for, you will need to change majors to
a respectable C-School major, and start
dressing in outﬁts that could be featured
in a Brooks Brothers catalogue. After
that, all you need to do is to_ have the
heiress completely fall for your game,
and as long as you sufﬁciently impress
her father and don’t cheat, then you are
in the gold. Literally.

2. How do I get the girl with the most
future income?

Determining one’s future income
is always a hard task. It’s like picking
which horse will win the Triple Crown
next. But, you can help your task by tak-
ing a few economics classes and build-
ing up your own econometric equation
for future income of girls at W&L. If
that’s too much for you, just start at the
top of the honor roll and work your way

night, and missed a line during the last
show, butoverall I did ﬁne. I laughed a
lot, tried something new, and put myself
out there, despite my stage fright.

We all have fears, things we aren’t
good at, and things we want to try. We
only live once, so just go for it.

There is something to be said for
trying new things; writing articles was

‘ scary the ﬁrst few times aﬁer all. While I

have not found a new passion for acting
by any means, at least I can say that I
gave it a shot.

And if nothing else, it gave me an ex-

cuse to wear an absurd dress that was an F

Israeli impulse buy last December and
left me less 800 shekels.

down. The key with the future high net
worth girls is that they usually don’t
fall for conventional game techniques
because they spend your Windfall time
studying in the library or writing compli-
cated dissertations. So, you will need to
get them to fall into your trap using other
methods. Try using big words like “mi-
sogyny” or getting interested in things
like the Italian Renaissance. I know that
it’s not as fun as Sunday Night Football,
but it can certainly help you in the long
run.
3. What ifthe girl I’m with is f***ing
crazy?

Congratulations, you are not alone.
Stereotypes aren’t always true, but one
that I’ve ﬁnd most helpful in my life is
“Guys are stupid; girls are crazy.” That
is 100% true, and I challenge anyone
to prove me otherwise. Guys are stupid
enough to watch Spike TV; girls are cra-
zy enough to give Oprah her own tele-
vision network. Girls are crazy enough
to believe that “Bridesmaids” was actu-
ally funny, and guys are stupid enough
to give “The Expendables” a sequel. It’s
science.

So what do you do when you ﬁnd
out that your golden ticket is clinically
insane? Do what every other guy in the
history of mankind has done: appease,
appease, appease. If worse comes to
worst, always break out the “I’m sorry,”
or “You know, when you look ‘at it from
that way, you are completely right,” or
even, “You are clearly better than me/
her.” If that doesn’t work, just put your
head down sheepishly and nod while try-
ing to appear sony. And, if you follow
that up with an “Is that a new dress?” or
a “Wow, you look really great tonight,”
then you will get to hold onto that golden
ticket while playing “Gears of War” well
into your forties. Grades be damned.

     

604. a~r'\.-1
cms om ems’?

  

GREG USSERY / staff cartoonist

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
CAREER SERVICES

STUDENT ACTIVITIES
CORDIALLY INVITE YOU To A

NETWORKING RECEPTION

ETIQUETTE DINNER

Thursday, October 27, 201 1
5:30 — 8:00 p.m.
Sheridan Livery

35 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia

Register in person at Career Services
by October 20th
$15 for dinner and

instructional materials

® Careerservices

AND

AND

 

 

fl - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011

 

arts&life

 

Rockin’ out to support awareness

Student bands and artists ﬁll Davidson Park with music to educate others about sexual assault and help preventit

By James Biemiller
co P v E D I TO R

Even some alums came out to participate in
Rock Against Rape, spreading awareness abou
sexual assault and It's prevention on campus.

  

6 E "" 
COY FERRELL / staff photographer °

Students willing to support sexual as-
sault awareness at W&L ﬁlled the Da-
vidson Park lawn Saturday afternoon at
the Rock Against Rape concert.

Rock Against Rape was ﬁrst orga-
nized two years ago by End It, a student
organization dedicated to raising aware-
ness about sexual assault and prevention
strategies.

End It grew out of a Women’s and
Gender Studies upper-level sexual as-
sault prevention seminar class two years
ago taught by Professor Melina Bell of

q the Philosophy Department.

End It participated in “consciousness
raising, publishing articles, putting up
posters, and spreading facts about the
statistical prevalence of 'sexual assault
on college campuses nationwide,” said
Bell.

End It member Eric Gehman ‘ l2 said
that the group “started writing regular
editorial letters to the Phi... and started
an anonymous stories project, where we
collected and published stories from as-
sault victims at W&L.”

The culmination ofthe sexual assault
prevention class was a concert, Rock
Against Rape, which brought together
student bands to raise awareness about
assault and to show that sexual assault is
an issue that both male and female stu-
dents care about.

Bell said that the concert helped show

that “men and women support sexual as-
sault prevention together, because it was
a joint effort between SigE’p and KEWL
(Knowledge Empowering Women Lead-
ers).”

“A lot of people think that sexual as-
sault is a battle ofthe sexes or a women’s
issue,” said Bell, “but most men never
sexually assault anybody...they are
more likely to be allies in preventing
rape.”

Junior End lt member and concert
organizer Nate Reisinger said that this
year’s Rock Against Rape had two main
goals: “Education...we want to make
resources available to victims of sexual
assault” and “to show how serious the
community takes sexual assault and
show compassion and support for the
victims.”

The concert offered students a chance
to sign a banner pledging to ﬁght rape
and sexual assault. T-shirts were given
to all pledgees, who were also given an
opportunity to sign up to receive infor-
mation about End lt’s efforts on campus.

Rock Against Rape featured perfor-
mances from student and alumni per-
formers including Copyist Crisis, Time
Ghost, D.O.P., and Beth Wellford. Drew
Martin and the Limelights headlined the
concert.

Wellford, a junior, was excited to
perform a mix of covers and originals to

support sexual assault awareness. “lt’s a
great cause and something that everyone
should be aware of, especially here,” she
said. “lt’s a great way to get attention in
a positive way.”

Students who attended the concert
were impressed and entertained by the
various acts. “The concert was quaint,
yet personal,” said ﬁrst-year attendee
Mark Farley. “The artists performed
well and the crowd responded appropri-
ately.”

“The concert displayed the talents of
several great artists who all came togeth-
er to support a great cause.” ‘said ﬁrst-
year Sarah Ward. “The weather couldn’t
have been better and it was a great way
to spend a lovely afternoon with my
friends.”

Attendees were well informed about
the issue ofsexual assault at W&L.

“No campus is immune to sexual
assault,” said Ward. “While W&L ob-
viously has a wonderful student body,
incidents still occur. Anything that can
be done to limit the prevalence of these
incidents should be at the forefront of
our minds.” '

“Sexual assault happens every day,
whether we accept it or not,” said Farley.
“We need to raise awareness so that no
one has to go through the pain associated
with sexual assault.”

Mindbending Productions presents...

“Gambling and Graveyards, ” written and directed by W&L students, starring students and costumed by students

By Samantha O’De||
STAFF warren

During Gambling and Graveyards
talkbacks, an opportunity for audience
members to comment and ask ques-
tions about the production, one woman
remarked that she had found both plays
disturbing.

“Thank youl” said senior Ben Oddo,
writer and director of the first play, Vul-
tures.

Gambling and Graveyards, a Mind-
bending Productions show, featured Vul-
tures and The Players, written by junior
Jack Burks and directed by senior Jeni
Pritchett. The production premiered last
Thursday, Oct. 6 and ran through Satur-

» day, Oct. 8. Admission was free and the

plays were held at Johnson Theater in
the Lenfest Center.

Vultures, a one-act play, revolves
around the hilarious and macabre dis-
course between two vultures overlook-
ing a ﬁmeral. The two vultures, played
by senior Morey Hill and junior Jay
Stephens, banter back and forth in
good spirit until they realize they aren’t
squawking over another old “bag of
bones,” but a young girl, only 9 years
old. The mood becomes somber, yet hi-
larious, while both buzzards experience
an “existential crisis” over their fear
of the beyond. When they listen to the
dead girl’s loving brother Peter, played
by sophomore Brian Clarke, recount the
last moments of his young sister Ruth-
ie’s life, they scream in anguish. This
causes the audience to laugh until their

sides hurt while tears form at the sad tale
of Ruthie’s demise.

A dove, played by junior Ali Green-
berg, hears their grief and ﬂies down to
talk to them. She introduces herself~“l
am a dove!”—and, as the audience gig-
gles, offers advice to the two distraught
birds: “The present is a gift. That’s why
they call it the present.” In the end, the
vultures never resolve their existential
crisis, unless you count planning to be-
come a squash farmer resolution. Still,
the piece raises the unanswerable ques-
tions of life and death and leaves the
audience wondering where it is we go
when we die and where we were before
we were born.

After Vultures follows The Players,

a 10-minute play with only three actors.
They all sit around a table playing cards.
A fourth seat is ﬁlled only with clothes,
but the majority of the chips on the table
sit in front of the absent player. As the
play goes on and the three wonder about
the missing fourth, their words reveal
that they are in the middle of the desert.
Each speaks exclusively in one tense.
Past, played by junior Jesse Mozingo,
seems upset with the other two and an-
gered by their situation. Present, played
by junior Elizabeth Lamb, focuses on
what is happening in the here and now.
Future, played by senior Chris Veddern,
is incredibly optimistic and looks for-
ward to what good things he thinks may
come their way. They play ends as it be-

gan, with the three sitting around their
table playing cards. Little happens be-
cause the person who past, present, and
future “belonged” to is dead. Without
the fourth, within whom the three united
into a whole, they have little power to
change anything. ‘

Mindbending Productions is an en-
tirely student-run group that puts on
plays for the Washington and Lee com-
munity. Everything for the two plays,
fromthe scripts to costumes to sets to
actors, was supplied by W&L students.
Pritchett, director of The Players, is also
the president of Mindbending Produc-
tions.

W&L celebrates real beaut

Stacy Nadeau, one of Dove is “every-day beauties, ” shared her story last Thursday at the Hillel Houge

By Paige Gance
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR

33

Stacy Nadeau, one of the “every-day
women who appeared in the unique 2005
Dove Campaign for Real Beauty adver-
tisements, came to W&L last Thursday
to share her incredible story.

Her journey began when she was
Sophomore at DePauw. She was ran-
domly picked by talent agent who was
looking for “real people, real curves” to
model for a‘ Dove campaign.

Though Nadeau was certainly skepti-
cal of the whole thing and bothered by
someone calling her curvy, she took her

mom’s advice to accept the offer.

Six months, numerous callbacks,
and multiple photo-shoots later, Dove
chose six real women to appear in their
underwear in the Dove Campaign for
Real Beauty. Men and women alike may
have been shocked by the photographs
of women practically naked without any
airbrushing or perfecting, but the pur-
pose of the campaign was to get people
talking about “real beauty.”

Though the campaign has received
negative and positive attention, its goal

is to “widen the deﬁnition of beauty.”
Nadeau is convinced that the campaign
has, and will continue to, serve that pur-
pose.

Aside from telling touching stories
of success and recounting moments
of heartbreaking public humiliation,
Nadeau urges women to feel beautiful as
they are.

Dove surveyed women worldwide
with the sole question “Do you feel com-
fortable calling yourself beautiful?” and
only 2% answered ‘yes.’ As surprising as

that statistic may be, Nadeau uses imag-
es from the media to explain that society
prohibits women from feeling beautiful
if their bodies do not resemble those of
models and celebrities.

There are ways to change the percep-
tion of beauty. First, be a friend to others
and to yourself. Help a friend that strug-
gles with self-image, and you may even
be doing yourself a favor by boosting
someone else’s self-esteem. Stop “Fat
Talk” — Nadeau explains that women
should stop using phrases like ‘‘I’m big

boned” or “Do these pants make me look
fat?”

Lastly, Nadeau says that our rela-
tionships are incredible important, we
should surround ourselves with people
to lift us up, not bring us down.

Active Minds, Panhellenic Coun-
cil, and the Ofﬁce of Health Promotion
sponsored Nadeau’s talk.

‘till Dawn sends letters for St. Jude

Near y 80 students mailed oﬂ8I2 letters to help raise money for the Children is Research Hospital

By Colleen Moore
STAFF WRITE R

Participants at this year’s Up ‘till
Dawn charity event mailed twice as
many letters as last year. They stayed
up all night last Tuesday and signed and
addressed 812 letters.

Ofﬁcially named Student for St. Jude
Event, the event raises money through
mail appeals for St. Jude Children’s
Research Hospital. It is a national pro-
gram on many college campuses where
students stay up all night to write letters,
pledging themselves to raise money for
the hospital. President Molly Roun-
tree and Vice President Olivia Kantwill
worked with St. Jude’s representative
Erica Baca to make this event the best
yet at W&L.

As a letter writing campaign, Up ‘till
Dawn encourages students to sign their

names and the name ofa St. Jude’s child
on a form written letter. Not only do they
promise to raise money, but they are also
required to give a $5 donation to cover
free t-shirts and food at the event.

To help raise awareness for the event,
this year’s Up ‘till Dawn organized a
penny war among chosen W&L male
students to shave their heads. Decided
by the student body, the participant who
received the most pennies in his jar was
required to shave his head.

The penny war raised $269.70, nearly
half of which was injunior Isaac Webbs’
jar. He was shaved at the event on Tues-
day to symbolize the hair loss in chemo-
therapy patients.

The 70 to 80 students whojoined the
festivities in Doremus gym throughout

the night were provided with music from
the JubiLee and General Admission
a cappella groups, pizza and Sunrise
Sandwiches, as well as lots of candy.

A student from W&L Law spoke
about how the treatment her brother re-
ceived at St. Jude saved his life after he
was diagnosed with heuroblastoma at 17
months.

Up ‘till Dawn also organized a Mr.
St. Jude pageant in which four male stu-
dents walked the runway in superhero
costumes and answered questions. One
participant even split his pants practicing
his routine.

Kantwill became involved her fresh-
man year at the Activities Fair when Up
‘till Dawn was just being introduced to
the W&L campus.

“The hospital costs over $1 million
a day to run, and what is a more wor-
thy cause than children who are ﬁghting
terrible disease, and the doctors who do
research to save them?” said Kantwill.

She said students who want to be
involved in the future should make a
team with friends for the event, sign up
to perform, be involved in the activities
that raise money, or join the Executive
Board.

Kantwill also said she understands
how schoolwork and classes can over-
whelm college students.

“Students for St. Jude give you a
chance to step outside that realm, and
into something entirely different where
all of your time that night is beneﬁtting
others,” she said.

We may not know or ever know the
people we write the letters to, but many
of us are connected in some way to can-
cer patients. “To be able to know you did
something that could help cure cancer
one day in the future, is an amazing feel-
ing”

Last year, the event raised $6,000
from 400 letters. Kantwill is eager for
an even better outcome this year. “We
are hoping to mail about 1200 in total,
which, based on last years return rate and
average gift, could raise over $10,000.”

  

 

 

   

‘MONDAY, OCTOBERl0,20ll 5 -THE RlNG-TUM PHI-

po rts
sports update

riding
  . I ‘ event date result

 

 

Randolph IHSA Invit. 10/07 7th- of 11

opponent date result

0   1

Virginia Wesleyan 10/07 L 2-1 . 

Liberty 10/08 ‘L 4-0
event 0 date result
Virginia State Intercollegiate 10/09 7th of 10

. General’s defense still stiﬂingm

The W&L women have allowed only one goal in 12 games this season as they move to 9-1-2 after posting two shutouts I

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR
The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team als undefeated in conference play when she made
7 remains unbreakable on defense after shutting out a crucial save on a Lynchburg penalty kick in the
Hollins 3-0 on Tuesday and tying Lynchburg 0-0 109th minute. The game ended with a double over-

_ on Saturday. time 0-0 draw.’
Q The Generals are now 9-1-2 for the season and The teams were evenly matched through the ﬁrst
5-0-2 against ODAC competition and have given halfofthe game with each side getting offsix shots.
up only one goal in 12 games. The Hornets outshot the Generals 8-2 through the

Against Hollins, W&L scored all of its goals in second half and ﬁrst overtime, ﬁnishing the game
the ﬁrst half and kept HU scoreless to pull out the with a 16-10 shooting advantage.
win. In the net, Leary recorded four saves while again
First-year midﬁelder put the Generals on the playing the entire game.
board early. Five and a halfminutes into the match, The women will be back in action when they
she took an assist from fellow ﬁrst-year Emily Scott travel to Virginia Wesleyan on Wednesday. The
for her ninth goal of the season. A little over six match is set to begin at 3:30 p.m.
minutes later, Katherine Rush, ‘another ﬁrst-year
midﬁelder, netted the ball off a rebound to add to
W& L’s lead. 0
With just a minute left before half time, senior
0 forward Allie Espina ﬁnished off scoring for the
day. In the ﬁrst half, the Generals outshot Hollins
15-1 and also held the advantage in comer kicks,
6-0.
W&L’S dominance continued in the second half,

but none ofthe team’s eight shots made it into the S . E .| L div f r S a . t
net. HU was again only able to get off one shot. Legucﬁrburpl  in Egxicagatoavgn 
Senior keeper Emily Leary played all 90 min— Lkllday Aidged by Lear ,5 play the Generals

Utes 1“ the “Bl 3'“ 5‘°PPed 0”‘? Shot have shut out 11 ort eir 12 opponenents . T
Leary’s play in Saturday’s game kept the Gener- this Season ' ‘

. Men win ﬁfth in a row now 6-4-1

T lze_Generals ’soecer team posted two shutouts last week to add to its winning szeak after opening the season [-4-]

By Angela Williams
STA F F w RITE R
The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team it into the goal. By the game’s end, however, the after taking an assist from junior midﬁelder John The Generals outshot the Knights 29-2 for the

courtesy of generalssportscom

extended its winning streak to ﬁve games over the teams had each taken 10 shots. Stallé. Three minutes later, TenBrook again con- day and also held a 7-0 advantage in corner kicks.
weekend with a 1-() victory over Virginia Wesleyan Senior keeper Ben Petitto played the entire game nected on a shot from Stallé, this one coming offa Petitto split time in the net with first-year Al-
on Saturday, improving their record to 6-4-1 on the in the net to ﬁnish the day with ﬁve saves. corner kick, to give the Generals an early 2-0 lead. bert Civitarese. Each recorded one save while Pe-
season and 4-2-1 in ODAC play. Earlier in the week, the Generals took down Sophomore Parker Wolﬁnger scored on a pass titto earned the win. SVU’s keeper stoppedl2 shots
Junior forward Dave Phillips scored the only Southern Virginia 4-0, aided by two goals and an from TenBrook under four minutes later, bringing while playing all 90 minutes.
goal of the game_only 23 minutes into play, which assist, all in fewer than seven minutes, by sopho— the score to 3-0, which would take the teams into The men will return to the ﬁeld on Wednesday
proved to be all the Generals needed for the win. more midﬁelder Justin TenBrook. the half. A free kick from junior defender Conor when they travel to Bridgewater. The game is set to
The Marlins held a 5-4 shooting advantage TenBrook scored his ﬁrst goal, both ofthe game Starr in the 78th minute gave the Generals their ﬁ- begin at 4:00 p.m.
.. through the ﬁrst half. but none of their shots made and of his college career, just 1:56 into the match nal goal ofthe game.

  T   0  
‘   H EAR   Q

SOMETWNC   sewn YOUR BEST
REALLV FUNNY   j °}’6[‘§T§:::'§’;:%§‘.»‘;{eJ°
LAST N15”-E? MAlL.wLU.€DJU!

 

THEY MIGHT
€ND UP IN THE
VPHI!

, WANT we
  POWER To MAKE
I600 PEOPLE LAUGH
ABOUT IT?

 

      
 

MON Tues WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
at l
Randolph-
Football Macon
1 pm
Men's at V5
Bridgewater Guilford
Soccer 4 pm 2:30pm
I at , vs VS
 wV;;9.;:i:. ‘:2:.°.'::.** 
' Soccer 3:30 pm 12pm 1 pm
VS
at at
Volleyball  Randolph Lynchburg
7 pm 6:30 pm 1 Pm
I ITA Nat’l ITA Nat'| ITA Nat'l
Women 5 Small Small Small
Tennis College College College
Champ. Champ. Champ.
Field SJ/get at Eastern
Hockey Briar Mennonite
' 4 pm 7 Pm
A at
Swimming centre
11 am

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

sport

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011

ondeck

in the numbers
13

The number of undefeated FBS teams left in college football.
__Ninth—ranked Oregon is the highest ranked one—|oss team,
while No.21 Texas A&M and No.24 Auburn are the only ranked
two—loss teams. No.25 Houston is the lowest ranked of the un-

defeated teams.

0

The number of teams from the state of Florida currently ranked
in the AP Top-25 Poll.This is the ﬁrst time since Dec. 6, 1982
that no teams from the Sunshine State were among the top 25.
Both Florida and Florida St. fell out of the rankings after suffer-

ing losses on Saturday.

19

The number of straight regular—season home games the New
England Patriots have won, the longest active streak in the NFL
and currently tied for the ﬁfth—|ongest streak in NFL history. The

Patriots extended their streak on Sunday, defeating the New

York Jets 30-21.

4,496

The number of yards Philadelphia quarterback Mi-

chael Vick has rushed in his career after a 53-yard run.
That total makes him the NFL's a||—time leading rush-
ing quarterback. Vick also threw a career-high four

interceptions in the 31-24 loss to the Buffalo Bills.

soapbox

“I could hear the security behind me.

I was still bent over my putt. And when I
looked up (the hot dog) was in the air. (The
fan) wanted to be in the news. Iguess he is

now.”

--1'l¢?arwoodsramar1dn¢onan unldenulled manwhoran

orrtothegreenshoullmwooddsnamoanduienprooeeded
tnihrowa hotdogathlm, bun and alI.Thomanwasqulckly
subduedandwoodsmsnavarlndanaar. ‘

“They think his presence, his attitude out
there, sometimes is like a phony attitude.
And then he yells at people. He just stares
people down and stuff. And most pitchers
iust don ’t do that, and when guys do, I

guess some hitters get mad.
-—Ml|wau|eeBrawBr3p|tcherZackGnaln|0onSt. Louls
card|naIsp|lnherchr|scarperIInn11Io1ieamshavoyattoplay
InthoNational Leacuochamplonshlpserles, butthetanslon
botwaenuieplayarslsalready high.

 

Volleyball keeps rolling

W&L is now 22-2 on the season after going undefeated in the Maroon Classic

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
volleyball team extended its
winning streak to nine games
with a 4-0 run through the
Roanoke Col1ege’s two-day
Maroon Classic. The Generals
ﬁnished the Classic with a 3-0
win over Ferrum on Saturday,
25-11, 25-4, 25-15.

The Panthers have yet to
record a win in 21 matches,
while the Generals moved to
22-2.

Sophomore outside hit-
ter Allison Rouse led the
team with nine kills, while
four players tied for second
most with ﬁve. Senior out-
side hitters Megan Tomlinson
and Megan Daily, sopho-
more blocker Emily Hudson
and ﬁrst-year blocker Katie
Toomb each contributed to the
offensive effort.

The Generals real domi-
nance came from the service
line as the team recorded 20
aces, eight of which came
from ﬁrst-year Shelby Flores, _
marking the most the Generals have had in a
single match since recording 23 in a win over
NYU in the NCAA Tournament on Nov. 1 1,
2006.

On defense, ﬁrst-year specialist Kelly Mc-
Manus led the team with nine digs.

Earlier that day, W&L took on Southern
Virginia, coming out on top with a 3-0 win.
After a close ﬁrst set, the Generals improved
as the match went on, winning 25-23, 25-21,
25-14.

Daily, senior Lindsey Dee and sophomore
M.A. Boles all recorded 10 kills to lead the
Generals’ offensive effort, while junior libero
led the defense with 13 digs. Boles also had

eight digs andthree blocks, and Dee contrib-



uted four blocks.

Sophomore setter Meghan Meleski moved
to 10th place all-time at W&L for number of
assists in her career after recording 32 against
the Panthers, which gave her 1,402 total.

W&L took on Averett and Methodist in the
ﬁrst day of the Classic, winning each match
3-1. The Generals beat Averett in their third
meeting this season, 25-13, 20-25, 25-17, 25-
23,‘ and then returned to the court to defeat
Methodist 25-16, 15-25, 25-18, 25-14.

Against Methodist, Boles led the team on
both sides ofthe game, recording 18 kills and
16 digs in the match. Dee contributed with 13
kills and Daily added nine. First-year defen-

 

courtesy of generalssportscom ‘
sive specialist Kelly McManus came in be-
hind Boles with nine digs.

Earlier in the week, the Generals record-
ed a 3-0 sweep of Emory & Henry, winning
the sets 25-14, 25-20, 25-22. In the third set,
W&L came back from a 13-7 deﬁcit to pull
out the win.

Boles and Daily paced the team with 11
kills apiece, while Dee added nine kills and
three blocks.

Hill led the defense with 11 digs and also
added four service aces, while Boles recorded
10 digs and an ace to go along with her kills.

The women will be back at home on Thurs- .

day when they take on Randolph-Macon. Play
is set to begin at 7 pm.

Field goal lifts Generals

PeterAlston 3‘ 40-yard ﬁeld goal as time ran out helped W&L take down E&H 1 7-14

By Dessie Otashliyska
STAFF warren

Senior placekicker Peter Alston connected
on a game winning, last second 40-yard ﬁeld
goal on Saturday to give Washington and Lee
football its second conference win, a 17-14
victory over Emory & Henry.

The Generals moved to 5-1 for the season
and are now 2-0 in ODAC play.

After a scoreless ﬁrst quarter, W&L got on
the board ﬁrst three minutes into the second
quarter when junior running back Brett Mur-
ray found the end zone off 'a four-yard rush.
The Generals took that 7-0 lead into the half.

The score remained unchanged through the
third quarter, but the Wasps tied it up at 7-7
with 12 and a half minutes left to play.

W&L got the lead back less than two min-
utes later when senior quarterback Charlie
Westfal connected with junior running back
Russell Steward for a 55-yard touchdown.
The Wasps weren’t ﬁnished ﬁghting, though,

.1

 

as they came back with 61-yard touchdown
pass with just under six minutes left to play,
tying the game back up at 14-14.

Stewart fumbled the ball on ensuing kick-
off, giving Emory and Henry the ball on the
W&L 27—yardline. The Generals’ defense
stepped up and forced a fumble by Wasp quar-
terback Kyle Boden two plays later. Sopho-
more safety Mitchell Thompson recovered the
ball on the 21-yardline with 4:47 left to play.

The Generals then drove down the ﬁeld,
covering 56 yards in 12 plays and taking 4:43
off the clock. With four seconds remaining,
Alston made the game-winning ﬁeld goal.

W&L’s offense racked up 506 yards for
the day, overcoming an average starting ﬁeld
position ofthe 15-yardline. Westfal completed
13 of his 18 passing attempts to throw for a
season high 214 yards and one touchdown,
along with one interception — his ﬁrst since the

.9 .

third game of last season. The Wasps picked
him off in the end zone in the third quarter. He
also lead the team on the ground, rushing 20
times for a career-high 121 yards.

Junior running back Luke Heinsohn picked
up 77 yards with 18 touches, and Murray had
61 yards and a touchdown on 13 carries.

Through the air, Murray also caught ﬁve
balls for 40 yards while Stewart went for 58
yards and a touchdown on his two receptions.
Sophomore tight end Alex Evans led the team
in receiving yards, though, catching three
passes for 69 yards.

The defense was led by senior linebacker
Rob Look and junior safety Jake Pelton, who
each ﬁnished the game with 11 tackles.

The Generals will travel to ‘Randolph-Ma-
con on Saturday for a 1:00 p.m. kickoff.

 

courtesy of generalssportscom

 

