W

” Baseball hits it out the park  
The Generals had luck on their side when

they swept the Quakers on St. Patty's Day,

with two ninth—inning comebacks.
" ‘ SPORTS/ page6

 

9   d Srat girls’ newest addiction.

IOPINIONS / page 3

WASHINGTON mm f'_.i:i: UN1vERs11'i'

HE RING-TUM PHI.

‘IRE $lllUEHlS Allll FDR TIIE SIUIIEIIS SINCE 18!?’

. PBK discusses rising to the top

Princeton sociologist speaks about pursuing goals without losing sight of reality
By Ryan Scott

MONDAY,MARCH 19,2012 I1‘ VOLUME cxv, NUMBER 17

 

STAFF WRITER

The Gamma of Virginia Chapter of
the Phi Beta Kappa academic honor so-

.~ ciety inducted 46 members of the junior

 senior class at its annual convoca-
_tion last Wednesday. The Phi Beta Kappa
honor society accepts the top ﬁve percent

Angel Harris was this year’s keynote
speaker. His speech was entitled “Prob-

ability vs. Possibility: Pursuing Goals

without Losing Sight of Reality.” He de-
tailed his own life story, explaining how
while growing up in New York he "failed

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

dents who demonstrate personal scholar-
ship and improve the intellectual life of
the University. ..

The PhiiBeta Kappa academic honor
society was founded in 1776 at William
and Mary to provide students with a fo-

Class .l 2011

Jean Chandler
Glass Chapman

Edward William Malachosky
Nicole Rose

. P ‘ of the junior class, as well as any seniors ‘ several classes and had no_ intention of rum for debate and to improve intellectu- Cl 1
' who were not inducted the year before going to college, and yet he not only al growth. Phi Beta Kappa is also famous ass 0  2
‘but have since risen to that threshold, graduated college, but earned a. Master’s for being the first collegiate Greek letter _
Beyond current students, Phi Beta Degree and a Ph.D as well. He said that fraternity. Lauren 1- Acker Samuel M_erCad°'Ri°5
Kappa also inducted Rupert H. Johnson his success was a direct result of “having The convocation was held not only Hannah Agard Ann.M°m5
Jr., a member of the Washington and friends to push him to excel, and he chal- by the Phi Beta Kappa honor society but ‘enthony J‘ Ballor Patrick Anthony oley
Lee class of 1962 as an alumnus mem- lei-i d st dents to s'milarl h 1 those i also re resented the Socie of the Cin- aur-en Ann Borden Barbara SoRe"e Peat
, 86 U 1 Y 3 P . P W
her An 61 Hams the Pﬁncet . 1 _ d h h. h . . 1 . . Th S . f h C. . . . Camille Morgan Cobb Melissa Mc_Rae Powell
. . . g , onsociod aroun t  ac ievet eir potentia . cinnati. e _ociety o.t e incrnriati is Mlchael Decembrmo Jr_ ohvla M_ R"-ﬁe
gist who gave the address at this year s In addition to the induction of new a philanthropic organization originally Nichojas Amen Gioioso David seve.-Son
convocation, was also inducted into the members, the convocation also conferred created for Veterans of the American Che|5ea Elizabeth Carter Gloeckner Kuan Si
1 honor society. other honors upon students who exem- Revolutionary War, and ‘donated a sig- Brad Harder Roger Strong
_ Speaking to the Convocation, Presi- ,p1ified the society’s values of excellence niﬁcant amount to the University in the David Benjamin Hosler Lauren Ashley Tipton
dent of the Gamma of Virginia Chapter both in academics and in personal in- days of Liberty Hall Academy. The do- Jasmine Maifie Jimenez Ei'i_ka i-eign Vaughn
, . Timothy Diette stressed how much of an . _. tegrity. The J. Brown Goehring Award, nation came with the stipulation that the Eleanor Patricia KennedY Raisa Velasco casted‘)
‘ A‘ V honor induction is, saying that only those which recognized the sophomore with University always offer a class on mili-

6

students who exemplify the society’s ide-
als of outstanding scholarship and strong
moral character are allowed to become.

the highest scholastic. average, was giv-
en to Andrew Seredinski. Senior Chris
Washnock received the Edward Lee Pin-

A by the Math Department.

 
  
 
    

tary bearing, which is still offered today

Class ol 2013

members.

ey Award, which is bestowed upon stu-

 
 
   
    

Megan Elizabeth Bock
Max Laitman Chapnick
Aubri Kaitlin Charnigo
Violette Ruth Chartock
Upol Ehsan

Amanda Marie Grywalski
Ali Hamed

Clark L Hildabrand
Maggie Lynn Holland .
Joseph R. Landry

Joe Lasala

Kerriann Elise Laubach
Andrew Channing Martin
Hang Nguyen

Tamar J. Oostrom

Jina Park

Rachael Petry

Lauren Schultz

Kathryn DeArmon Stewart
Beryl Tran .

Robert Grifﬁn Vestal
Kayla Welch

COY FERREL/ staff photographer

Angel Harris tells his life
story of failing classes in
high school to eventually
earning a Ph. D, while 46
members of the Junior
and Senior classes are
inducted into Phi Beta
Kappa.

Reviving old juriali piriciples

Keynote speaker discusses traditional principles in Journalism connecting with new technology

ByTommyKent
STAFF WRITER

Dan Gillmor, the founding director of
the Knight Center for Digital Media En-
trepreneurship, gave the keynote address
in the. Stackhouse Theater for the 53"‘
Media Ethics Institute last friday. The
title of his talk was “Media Ethics in a
Digital Age: Traditional Principles Col-
lide with New Tools and Tactics.”

In introducing Gillmor to the stage,
Professor Wasserman, a Knight Profes-
sor for Journalism Ethics at Washing-
ton and Lee, said, “Every ordinary per-
son with internet access can get his/her
hands on more information than the most
resourceful journalist could have a gen-
eration ago.”

Wasserrnan described Gillmor, whose

lecture and the realities of an internet
where all can participate, Gillmor said,
“This is going to be a shared responsibil-
ity to get the ethical issues right, notjust
for the journalists.”

Elaborating on the appearance of this
new media and distinguishing it from tra-
ditional print journalism, Gillmor said,
“In the past we created stuff, we made
media, then we distributed it. Now, we
create it and we stick it someplace online
and then people ﬁnd it and come and get
it. Consumers are now creators and col-
laborators.”

Gillmor attempted to make clear what
constitutes journalism on the internet.
Using his own credibility scale, Gill-

tant to return to principles in addressing
these issues, these principles being both
the communities’ responsibility, for all
individuals who use the internet, those
formally known as the audience who are
now collaborators, and also for the jour-
nalists who create the media. Gillmor
said, as an overarching principle, that it
is important to use media, not consume
it.

The ﬁve principles for consum-
ers include skepticism in everything,
judgment, research, free thinking, and
techniques for creating media and un-
derstanding how the media persuades.
Gillmor elaborated on the principle of
skepticism by stating, “We have a new

While describing the free thinking
principle, Gillmor stressed the impor-
tance of “going outside your comfort
zone in politics and culture” and “chal-
lenging your own assumptions.” Gill-
mor said, “When I started getting sure
about things, was when I was most likely
to be wrong.”

Gillmor stated that what used to be
called the 24-hour news cycle is now
more aptly title 14,400 second news
cycle, signifying how quickly news ap-
pears on the intemet to the satisfaction
of consumers who are wired for fast.
One of the downsides to this fast-pace is
that major news stations can sometimes
get things widely wrong, for instance in

of a certain article to receive an e-mail if
corrections were made.

Gillmor said that journalists should
be independent of their work, to not
have conﬁict of interests, and cited I.F.
Stone, an investigative reporter from
the l950’s, as a model of independent
journalism. Gillmor also said journalists
should tell readers “how you are doing
the reporting” and “when you make a
mistake, to say it loudly,” highlighting
the transparency principle.

In closing, Gillmor departed from his
lecture on ethical principles to remind
the audience that “liberty is fragile.”
Gillmor said, “The world of new me-
dia, of democratization of production

.'  resume includes the title of author, work mor placed YouTube toward negative 30 regime in political advertising by so- reporting Joe Patemo’s death before he and access, is so important that we need
’ for several newspapers, investment in and BBC at the top on the opposite end. called third parties who don’t disclose actually died. Gillmor stated, as expan- to remember that there are some prob-
new media companies, the position as Blogs were not identiﬁed as journalism, who they are. It is totally untrackable sion on the technique principle, that as lems.” Gillmor, mentioning SOPA, the
board member for the First Amendment . though Gillmor did state that informed money. lfyou’re not willing to statewho a technique, consumers need to slow the Stop Online Piracy Act, said that govem-
Coalition, and much more, as having an blogs written by experts in their ﬁeld be- you are, you should not be believed.” process down, increase fact-checking, ments, even in democracies, are realiz-
“unusual breadth of knowledge,” well- gin to blur the line. Gillmor stated how » As a condition to this skepticism, and not assume the truth about anything ing the power of the intemet and want
equipped to discuss reimagining news there is a tremendously more supply of Gillmor said that one does not have to until it becomes clear. to control it.
media as democratized and civic-based. media on the internet due to the lack of be equally skeptical, a “common fallacy Gillmor said that the ﬁve principles Gillmor said, “I’m very concerned
Gillmor said, ‘‘I’m insanelyjealous of barriers to entry, speciﬁcally citing the people make.” A ' for consumers ofmedia also apply to the about where we are going. [The inter-
you students right now. You are starting case of the Japanese Earthquake/Tsuna- As an example, Gillmor again cited creators. In addition to these principles, net] is ours. Not theirs. You have to de-
out in a time of media that, yes, is prob- mi as the most captured/recorded natural his credibility scale in determining and creators should strive for thoroughness, fend free speech all of the time.”
lematic, but that has so much opportu- event in history. judging what constitutes reliable journal- accuracy, fairness, independence, and In taking questions, Gillmor began to
nity.” Having cited one ofhis own failed What emerges from all the media out- ism. Gillmor, in explaining how some transparency. discuss the overall future path ofjour-
. entrepreneurial attempts, Gillmor, in lets on the Internet is a “diverse ecosys- forms of media can exist below the zero In describing the thoroughness prin- nalism. Gillmor said, “Whether you are
reference to further innovation in news tern”. Gillmor stated that this “emerging mark, said, “Some things are lacking in ciple for creators, Gillmor mentioned ajournalist or not, you can take part in
media, said, “Do things, try things, ex- media ecosystem” is a “great thing be- such credibility that they suck credibility the supremely ethical nature of placing this.” Gillmor said that he encourages
periment. Don’t worry if things fail. its cause diverse ecosystems are much more out ofthe atmosphere.” hyperlinks within news stories, which students to “invent business model im-.
okay.” sustainable and better in the long-run.” In reference to the research principle, “add authenticity and facts.” Gillmor provements, to see our way through, not
Throughout the lecture, Gillmor Acknowledging all of the sources of me- Gillmor stated the importance of con- also said, “We should be more forthright just new ways to get out information.” V
showed a PowerPoint presentation and dia, Gillmor said, “I’m not worried about sumers asking their own questions, espe- about the mistakes we’ve made.” Beck- Gillmor said, “You folks, this is your
listed ﬁve principles for consumers and supply. I’m worried about demand.” cially when making big decisions about oning the audience to “think about what time. You know more about changing
ﬁve principles for creators in regards to Among Gillmor’s worries are those news. Gillmor said, “Wikipedia is the we could do with mistakes on the inter- media than anyone.”
improving the current state of media. concerning the blurred ethical issues of best place to start, and the worst place to net,” Gillmor mentioned the possibility
. Underscoring the main message of the this new media. Gillmor said it is impor- ﬁnish” in the middle ofresearch. of a cookie that would allow the reader

 

  

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON 8. LEE Limvggsmz

“’ll3if’9"IVtoI‘2“5°

2 - THE RING—TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH 19,2012

opinions

 

Looking for a class that rocks?

Need to fulﬁll your science requirement? Columnist Sally Platt suggests a geology class with Professor Low

Professor
Low kind of
rocks. He is my
favorite geol-
ogy profes-
sor. (Teehee,
“rocks,” get
7 it?) He is also
" my only geol-
ogy professor.
S I, along with all
my fellow C-
School students,
are not creatures
of the science
center. But for
some reason the powers have dictated
that before we graduate we must take at
least two science courses.

Decisions, decisions. How
could anyone possibly choose between
studying bugs, rocks, diseases, mental
illness, or whatever other lovely subject
falls under the name of “science”? It is
quite a decision. I suggest you choose
geology. While rocks may not seem the
most interesting of things, at least you
won’t be spending hours and hours mix-
ing chemicals in lab every Tuesday and
Thursday. (Note: chemistry is not like
potions class in Harry Potter.) In any

Social

Rac

.,»

 

 4

BySa;lIyPIatt
cDLuIIII~IIsT

 

. I Packing
‘ I ‘T -“*1 your bags
' ' and heading
to college is
usually seen
as the time
- for leaving
your comfort
zone and ex-
panding your
horizons —
a time for
trying new
things and
encountering
other walks of
life. Since Washington and Lee is such
a small, liberal arts school, it should be
easy to meet new people from different
backgrounds and to learn more about
what it is that makes you unique, right?
Unfortunately, this is not always the
case. Although it might not be apparent,

    

Byﬂachel Urn '

CDLUIIHIST

case, if you take geology, I suggest tak-
ing it with Professor Low. And more
speciﬁcally, if you get the chance, taking
his economic geology class.

There are several reasons for
this. For one, he is young, which means
he knows about computers and technol-
ogy. I think everyone has been in the
situation of watching an elderly profes-
sor, on the overhead, attempt to locate
the “go” or “sound” button while the
class looks on in embarrassment. Fi-
nally someone raises their hand, “Um,
professor, I think you might want to try
unplugging the earbuds?” Anyhow, no
one will have that problem in Professor
Low’s class as almost everything is elec-
tronic. r

We don’t even have a text-
book. Instead we just read articles online
and a blog that he writes. The blog con-
tains such gems as, “The EIA is smoking
crack if it thinks that crude oil will sell
for $50/barrel in 2035.” Amusing and
educational, now that’s winning.

Oh, and did I mention we
roasted someone in class the other day?
Apparently there is this magazine that
the area electric company sends to their
customers. It contains such cutesy things
as “How Things Were in the Good Old

SO

within the first year of an undergradu-
ate’s time at W&L, a student undergoes a
form of “sorting” that prescribes him or
her to a speciﬁc walk of life for the fol-
lowing years. The fact that the spheres of
student life on campus are so conﬁning
for students has created a strong system
of segregation that is not immediately
obvious. ‘

This is especially true for sorority
women — and while I will readily admit
to having a lack of knowledge about the
inner workings of the sororities since I
am an independent, the following views
were expressed by many sorority women
at the W&L Women’s Leadership Sum-
mit taking place this past weekend. Once
you join a speciﬁc sorority, your life be-
gins to revolve around this identity: you
eat at the sorority house, go to sorority
meetings, and attend social functions
with your sorority sisters. Even your
Greek letters are on much of your cloth-

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
STAFF CARTOONIST
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

ANNA DIBENEDETTO
JENNY FUGATE
HAILEY HARLEY
TOMMY KENT
ANNIE PERSONS
SALLY PLATT

ZACK RICHARDS
RYAN SCOTT
ANDREA SISO
CATHERINE TINNEY

JULIANNA SATTERLY
COY FERRELL
ANTHONY KIRBY
MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty.
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering

information that prompts change. -

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@w|u.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length: Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

ing, readi-
_ ly labeling
——~« WASHlNGl‘ONANDIEEUNlVERSI’l‘Y —j——~— 3'0“ K? a
respective
THE RING -TUM PHI  
' there are
alsostrong

MANAGING EDITOR DIANDRA SPICAK Stm°‘
NEWS EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY types that
OPINIONS EDITOR CAMPBELL BURR are ”“f°"

ARTS&L|FE EDITOR PAIGE GANCE tunately
SPORTS EDITOR LEIGH DANNHOUSER placed on
COPY EDITORS KATHERINE ROBERTS women in
their re-

Days,” “When Grandma and Grandpa
Came to Visit,” and instructions on ﬂo-
ral arrangements. It also has a “Letters
to the Editor” section. Apparently, an
individual named Elaine Neal from Bea-
versdam, Va. took issue with an article
on coal energy that the magazine had
written. She wrote what she thought was
a scathing rebuttal. But apparently she
had no idea what she was talking about.
Prof. Low proceeded to take us through
every line and show us just why she was
such a complete idiot. It was great.

Professsor Low is also Very pa-
tient with the non-science oriented. Our
ﬁrst homework assignment involved
making graphs from Excel data. I had
heard of “Excel” before, like the name
sounded familiar. I had no idea how to
use it. So I went to Prof. L0w’s oﬂice to
ask for help. I told him I had just been
thinking of plotting the little points on
graph paper but could he tell me how to
openéthe Excel thing ﬁrst? He proceeded
to show me how there were thousands
and thousands of data points and there
was no way I could possibly plot them
all. And he said all of this without laugh-
ing at all. I was very impressed.

Our last homework assignment
was my favorite. Apparently, it is a com-

egation

hel Urban encourages W&L s udents to leave their comfort zones

spective sororities. And whether or not
you actually fulﬁll these stereotypes
does not always factor in how other
people identify or interact with you.
Women from other sororities (and even
independents) will oftentimes judge a
woman depending on the sorority she
is in, which discourages strong relation-
ships between women of differing social
spheres.

Fraternity men face a similar situa-
tion but differ in some regards. There are
more fraternities represented at W&L
compared to sororities, and the frater-
nity houses are very spread out around
Lexington. Men also eat at the fraternity
houses everyday like sorority members,
and a fraternity member’s daily deci-
sions are strongly dictated by the fra-
ternity and its members — pledgeship

.being a great example. Because of this

set—up of student life, fraternity men and
sorority women mainly interact during
classes and social functions like parties.
This makes it harder for women to de-
velop non-romantic relationships, which
would really help the gender divide at
W&L.

Furthermore, independents are of-
ten placed into their own category by
default. For example, I was in an orga-
nization wherein the female members
wanted to have a meeting over dinner
in one of the sorority houses. This idea
was soon dropped since I am restricted
from eating meals at any of the sorority
houses because of my non-Greek affili-

mon saying in the oil and gas industry
that “Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabia of
oil,” meaning that Saudi Arabia, easily
the greatest producer of oil, is, well, the
largest producer of oil. This has spawned
other sayings along the same lines, such
as “Canada is the Saudi Arabia of tar

who actually won but, honestly, with a
homework assignment like this you’re
really all #winning. '

So if you’re trying to decide
what foreign hall of the science center
to venture into I would highly suggest
the geology one. It’s interesting, and

The blog contains such gems as, “The EIA is smok-
ing crack if it thinks that crude oil will sell for $5 0/ _

barrel in 2035. ” Amusing and educational, now

that s winning.

sand,” etc., etc,. Well, our homework
assigmnent was to make up anything,
anything using “ is the Saudi
Arabia of .” The winner would
get extra credit. Mine lost. It was, “Pro-
fessor Low is the Saudi Arabia of bald-
ing men.” On second thought, offend-
ing the teacher is probably not the best
tactic. Some of my favorite entries were:
“Taco bell is the Saudi Arabia of higher
viscosity.” “Exell is the Saudi Arabia of
uselessness.” And “Tiger Woods is the
Saudi Arabia of cheaters.” I have no idea

ation — even if sorority members can
eat at other houses besides their own
(which is an option not always taken ad-
vantage of). And even though indepen-
dents choose not to be aﬁiliated with any
Greek organization, they still receive the
labels of “independents” and “GDI”

plus you might even fall in love with the
subject, become a geology major, and
make a huge fortune working for an oil
company instead of, say, working as an
underpaid Hill staffer which is probably
where a politics degree will get you. And
take Professor Low. I’m telling you, he
really is the Saudi Arabia of fun, inter-
esting, FDR-fulﬁlling geology classes.

I encourage you to step outside of
your comfort zone during your time
here. If you’re a Greek member, try go-
ing to an event that mostly independents
attend. And if you’re an independent, try
participating in a philanthropic Greek
event. Do not miss the opportunity to

Although it might not be apparent, within the ﬁrst

year of an undergraduate is time at W&L, a student

undergoes a form of “sorting” that prescribes him or

her to a speciﬁc walk of life for the following years.
 

and the preconceived notions associated
with them.

The result of this system of student
life is that W&L students have a ten-
dency to get “stuck” "in their walks of
life here, rarely venturing outside of the
sphere they inhabit. It’s amazing that, at
such a small university, I really interact
with only a small portion of the people
here. But when we stay in our comfort
zones, we’re really stunting our own
growth as individuals. There are so many
great people on campus, whether Greek,
independent, male, or female, and they
come from so many walks of life. Get-
ting to know all sorts of people can real-
ly push the boundaries of our own ways
of thinking, and we can learn more about
ourselves through the process.

talk to someone, even if it might be awk-
ward at ﬁrst. Just remember those won-
derful meet-and-greet skills you honed
as an entering freshman.

Just don’t let stereotypes dictate your
views about other men and women.
When we place others into a speciﬁc cat-
egory or identity, we’re unfairly hurting
them as well as our social atmosphere on
campus. We should work towards mak-
ing the word “acceptance” synonymous
to student life at W&L. And that ac-
ceptance shouldn’t be limited to certain
individual groups but rather across the
spectrum of the student body. It’s hard
to combat the segregation that seems to
happen naturally on this campus, but if
we are aware of the issue, we can deﬁ-
nitely change it. *

ANTHONY KIRBY/ staff cartoonist

 

  

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 19,2012

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

\

opinions

~ Ready to lose your ‘pinnoeence?’

Looking for a new distraction? Sick of F acebook and Twitter? Check out Annie Persons ’newest addiction: Pinterest!

This week-
end, I shattered
the innocence
of .two of my
closest friends.
Hold on—I
know how that
sounds, so let
me back up:
when I say that
I corrupted my
friends, what
I mean is that
I invited "them
into a shiny new
_ world, an undis-
covered level of virtual entertainment
that, once entered, they will ﬁnd nearly

impossible to ignore. I invited them to
Pinterest, and I took their pinnocence.

   

By Annie Persons
CO LU M N I ST

    

. our
Ll
our

Can't wan to way these this spr‘ngl'
.r
19;’ Satly Nansen we Lauren

L A .' Reich .’.f".»’.‘ Fashion
Ir

 

. '>‘~.-erg-,s»~-.=~.sr~';’  >-s—'.r-:_am-.-.:

Pinnen you follow » Everything ' - Videos ~ Popular - Gifts '

 

For those of you (males) reading
this that are unaware, Pinterest.com is a
self—described “online pinboard” where
one has individualized thumbtack-like
boards onto which she can virtually
“pin” the link to the website of whatever
strikes her fancy. These links take the
form of images that appear in a virtual
feed of other people’s pins, or rather,
one’s “followers” and those they are
“following.” The mechanism of Pinter-
est allows the pinner to take a cyber pic-
ture of anything they see online, whether
it be clothes, recipes, or my (personal fa-
vorite) wedding paraphernalia, and dis-
play it for their followers to see.

This idea appeals to the core of the
common female in two ways: not only
does it allow her to publicly display how
possibly cute and trendy her interests

are, but it allows her to do it in a neat
and organized way. Not to mention the
exclusivity principle of the site, being
that one must be invited by a current
member to join. The world of Pinterest is
literally a mecca for the future or current

their whimsical fancies and share these
fancies with their friends. Let me pause
to put my addiction in perspective: fre-
quently, when opening my laptop, I have
found myself checking my Pinterest feed
prior to my4Facebook feed. *shivers*

Let me pause to put my addiction in perspective:

frequently, when opening my laptop, I have found

myself checking my Pinterest feed prior to my F ace-

bookfeed. *shivers *

housewife, interior designer, fashion de-
signer, chef, bartender (yes), even writer
lore

7%"ﬁ‘

  

  

"II

,WamIt

1 (spin

Vicky Costa: we Omar
Wllson onto Cum

 

 

.Vloky Coatos ». :1); Tyler
- - ~ *~ '--- Andorxa rwtaotfreur

 9. ‘l .
 

 do

 

rvadewell spring

H Yaylor Parls 9-  style & chic

 

rryadewall spring

a Taytor Paris '."‘:. style 8. chic

     
    

All of that being said (and despite
my obvious personal obsession with
Pinterest), recent mental examination
of its deeper implications about my own
behavior and that of society at large has
lead me to some slightly disturbing con-
clusions. The underbelly of Pinterest,
you might call it. That is, I have started
to wonder...what does it say about me
as an independent and conﬁdent woman
that the only time I feel comfortable
enough to exhibit my personal interests
is on a website?

Furthermore, the irony of the site is
that its basis in individuality and per-
sonal expression derives from the indi-
viduality and expression of other people.
Picture the average pinner, hiding behind
the shield of their computer screen, ob-
serving a continuous feed of pins and
eagerly “re—pinning” the ones they take
an interest in. I myselfhave said on mul-
tiple occasions what an “ego boost” it
gives me when I get that little email hap-
pily informing me that someone has re-
pinned one ofmy pins. Wow, that person
must like me and think I am pretty neat!

No. What they like is my recycled ex-
pression of the image that someone else
originally recycled, and so on. While the
combination of pins and boards do cre-
ate a collage of inspiration and personal
expression, I would be pressed to ﬁnd a
pinner who genuinely explores or even
visits the links to the items they pin. Per-

Smothered

sonally, the website has led me to a few
useful or entertaining online nooks, but
the majority of my -pins remain idly on
their boards gathering virtual dust as I
constantly replace them with different

' images ofthings I like in the moment.

Another subtly disturbing aspect of
the site is the sheer wordlessness of it.
When trying to convince my friends
to get a Pinterest account, I- have been
known to compare Pinterest to “Tumblr,
but without the hipster vibe and angsty
posts” (forgive me, Tumblr goers). The
merit to this is that, to put it bluntly, no
one really cares about reading someone
else’s virtual diary. Or at least no one
cares about reading the average Joe’s
(or Annie’s). In this way, Pinterest al-
lows for self-expression without the fear
of being judged for revealing too much.
But what does that say not only about us
as Pinterest users, but as readers? Are
we so self aware that we think people
will judge our thoughts and emotions
if we put them out there boldly, off the
Internet, for the world to see? What will
become of a society where the written
word is shunned or feared?

I feel I should wrap this up by admit-
ting that, despite these dark thoughts, I
will continue to remain a self-confessed

Pinterest addict. I do not regretitaking the

“virpinity” of my friends this weekend. I
just hope that my fellow pinners and I
will begin to pin more consciously ofthe
fact that we may not be as individual as
we seem, and will not get too wrapped
up in the ephemeral nature of the site. Be
selective with your pins, my friends—
don’t pin something you wouldn’t ac-
tually use your powers of creativity to
design, and, perhaps, even pin your own

version of one day. More than dreamers,

we must be doers. More than re-pinners,
we must be pinners.

Favorite class: Psychoactive
Drugs and Behavior

Favorite mixer theme: PiKA
NFL Draft

One thing every student must
do before graduation: You have
to go on some sort of hike or take
advantage of all the beauty

One thing you would change
about W81 L: More women on the EC
If you could redo your time
at W&L, what would you do

 differently? Nothing! I have

loved every moment

Lindsey Dee

Favorite class: Travel and

Transformation

Favorite mixer theme: 70's
disco

One thing every student must
do before graduation: Eat
dinner at the President's house
One thing you would change

about W&L: More fans at every 

At times, this town traps me. Ifeel it on the hill, when
I look down into town. And rather than an endless
horizon, I'm confronted with ﬁnite lanes of stacked
red brick.

(I can't move).

I was given hydrangeas two days ago. I put them in a
vase of water. Yet, they wilted and died--

They weren’t cared for in the right way.

I’cl like to plead,

”Can I step out of this square?”

50 I could belong to a ﬂoating bubble
(not a staid one).

I would lightly clrif --

turn to color and sun,

take time to swallow the air

(it is breathed in and out by everyone,
you see),

and grow-

I tried this once, not long ago;

Tf;h)If)ttICcfbJIIITccliOf]edo your time IBe(:g.erIy tofk 
at W&L, what would you do u mana"/ew Ir’
differently? Go to more Lee Iwasseen.
Chapel speakers , _
, » — ' Their ﬁngers ended me.
LEXINGTON LIMOIISINE C. TRANSPORTATION LLC
. www.IexinglonIin_m.net IexingtonIi|no@gaIm_o.com 'A"d’ea 5'30
(S40) ll6I-llll (S40) lllxll-LIMO
SERIIING ALL AIRPORT, AMTRACK (. BUS LOCATIONS
WE ARE THE ONLY LOCALL‘I OWNED I; LEGALLY OPERATED
‘ TRANSPORTATION BUSINESS IN THE AREA

Insured Ilomlerl DMII# 829

Licensed

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH i9,2'o12

I

arts&|ife

 

Students, faculty Take Back the Night ~

At the 5th annual event, community members came together to makestand against sexual violence at the Cohen Amphitheater

By Cynthia Lam
copv EDITOR

SPEAK and One in Four hosted
the 5th annual Take Back the Night at
7:00 p.m. in the Cohen Amphitheater
last Thursday. The campus-wide event
brought students, faculty members, and
the entire W&L community together to
celebrate the resilient strength of sexual
assault survivors and take a powerful
stand against sexual violence.

According to incoming SPEAK
President Johanna Cho: “The main goal
of [Take Back the Night] was to show
campus support for survivors of sexual
violence, assault, and rape, as well as
give a voice to those who have gone
through such experiences. While it sup-
ports survivors by giving them a chance
to tell their personal story, it also serves
to raise awareness about sexual assault
and rape on campus.”

The night began with an opening

speech by SPEAK President Chelsea‘

Gloeckner, who talked about the impor-
tance of breaking the silence and raising
awareness about dating violence and
sexual assault, which are prevalent is-
sues here at W&L.

“Our statistics prove that we have
twice the national average of sexual as-

' saults on our campus. I have had many
‘ people ask if those statistics are real, or

if we just make them up. Why would
we ever want to make them up? Too
many people are sexually harassed, as-
saulted, and raped at W&L, and that is
why these organizations that stand up to
ﬁght against this violence and assault or
so important,” said Gloeckner, a senior.
This was followed by poetry and
prose readings from members of SPEAK.
They gave voice to victims of sexual as-
sault, who had all too often gone unheard
due to the silence surrounding this issue.
This silence, according to Cho, is one of
the most devastating forces contributing

to the problem at W&L.
“Incidents go unreported all the time.
One of the ﬁrst things you hear as a

. freshman is, ‘This campus is so small.

Everyone knows everyone’s business.’
When sexual assault is that ‘business,’
a victim’s struggle with rape or sexual
assault is tremendously harder in such a
tight-knit community, one where assault-
ers can be friends [or] your classmates,”
said Cho, ajunior. “The combination of
the small size and

“I thought I was going to easily keep
it all together and ﬂy through the speech
with all smiles... that didn’t happen,”
said Cho. “But I’m glad I did it because
it was a challenge to talk to a huge au-
dience about something I almost never
talk about with anyone, and being able to
accomplish that, being extremely honest
and open with my peers, gives me hope
that people will care more about these
issues. And I hope my story served as

happening on our campus,” said ﬁrst-
year Amira Hegazy.
Added ﬁrst-year Catherine Elder:
“I came...because I wanted to hear and
support everyone. I was expecting to be
very moved by the speakers, but I was
pleasantly surprised at how well it was
planned out to make the experience that
much more meaningful.”
The night continued with an uplifting
performance from Jubilee of “Signed,
Sealed, and Delivered.”

the prevalence Afterwards, it was fol-
of these issues ,, , ', _ . lowed by a candlelight
makes everything I m not one to cry a lot in public, or ever But Vigil along the COL
harder-” every time I hear that a girl has been assaulted at Omade as SUFViV0rSe

Coordinator of friends, and members

Violence Preven-
tion Dr. Jennifer
Sayre, who spoke
about the resound-
ing impact of sex-
ual violence, also
addressed this is-
sue by urging au-
dience members to look beyond the im-
mediate consequences.

“Students are profoundly affected by
[sexual assault] in terms directly and in-
directly,” said Sayre. “The direct effects
of violence can be devastating incfuding
marked anxiety, problems with sleep, at-
tention, concentration, and a broad range
of trauma-related challenges. When
someone’s friend, roommate, or roman-
tic partner is coping with violence it can
also be devastating. There is a ripple ef-
fect across our entire community.”

These daunting truths set the stage for
the most empowering part of the night, as
students took turns going up to the mike
to share their personal stories as survi-
vors of sexual assault. For most, this
was the ﬁrst time they had ever talked
about their experiences aloud in public.

W&L, I ’m stunned and, [it is] cliché I know, but my
heart breaks. I think our whole campus needs less of
those heartbreaks. ”

JOHANNA CHO,junior and incoming SPEAK president

encouragement for students who are still
going through their recovery process.”

The powerful, often heartbreaking
stories left a lasting impact on the au-
dience, who listened respectfully and
offered their support for the survivors
throughout the night. Some students
cried during the stories, while others
hugged and held on to each other for re-
assurance and encouragement.

“I haven’t been to anything like Take
Back the Night before, but I was really
glad I decided to go. It was really pow-
erful and emotionally charged, whether
you know someone who has been sexu-
ally assaulted, if you are a victim or not,
[because] the girls’ stories take hold of
you and really bring to light how crush-
ing sexual assault can be and how we all
need to take a stand to prevent it from

of the W&L community
walked together and lit
up the night.

Said ﬁrst-year SPEAK
member Maggie Voel-
zke: “SPEAK organizes
Take Back the Night as a
visual reminder that sex-
ual assault is a real and present problem,
even on our wonderful campus... [We]
work to ensure the discussion on sexual
violence doesn’t end with the closing of
the night. SPEAK strives to keep this is-
sue in the minds of W&L students not
only to raise awareness, but so that our
community can become a safe haven for
survivors.”

After attending Take Back the Night,
students discovered a newfound respon-
sibility to themselves and their peers.
Said Hegazy: “As a female, I feel like I
need to go to [these] events so I can learn

how to better help myself and my friends’

ifthey become victims. It really could be
me or any other woman on campus on
that stage telling a horriﬁc story of rape,
it is our responsibility to go listen and
respect them as survivors to learn what

more we can do to secure our campus.”

With the large turnout this year, many
are hopeful that more students will step
up in the ﬁght against sexual violence.
Said Sayre: “Our community will be
safer when enough individuals make the
choice to do their part to be actively and
visibly intolerant of violence. Individu-
als can educate themselves about how
to be proactive bystanders, look out for
their friends, and let everyone in their
lives know this matters to them.”

Added Cho: “We need to open up our
dialogue. We need to talk to each other
as friends and not as us being solely edu-
cators but just another student who cares
about the problems of sexual assault and
rape. I’m not one to cry a lot in public,
or ever. But every time I hear that a girl
has been assaulted at W&L, I’m stunned
and, cliche’ I know, but my heart breaks.
I think our whole campus needs less of
those heartbreaks. SPEAK is in no way
trying to scare girls with these stories.
We just want to better prepare them with
the realities of our campus.”

, In order to fully eliminate sexual as-
sault from campus, students must work
together to take a stand. Said Voelzke:
“The reality is that by the time you have
graduated someone you know will prob-
ably have dealt with this in some way. I
want W&L to be a community in which
victims can be open with their experi-
ences and be supported not only by close
friends, but by students en masse.”

Added Gloeckner: “I wanted to be-
come part ofthe movement to end sexual
assault at W&L. I felt like I could be a
voice for those who couldn’t speak about
it... No matter what relationship you
[have] with sexual assault, you can still
be extremely moved and inspired to ﬁght
sexual violence alongside your peers.”

It’s a case of Spring Fever?

Certain ﬁosh donned costumes, threw glitter and made sandwiches last week .. but none were harmed

By Anna DiBenedetto
STA F F w RITE R

Spring Fever is here and it has come
in with a bang. Oddly enough, the fever
seems to have only infected 29 ﬁrst-
years in the Phi Kappa Psi ﬁatemity.
They showed signs of extreme energy
and excessive happiness starting last
Tuesday. —

One young man, Albert Civitarese,

' showed his concern for the safety of his

fellow undergraduates by suiting up in a
cop uniform, whistle and all, and direct-
ing the student pedestrians outside of El-
rod Commons.

Another young man, Matthew How-
ell, decided to teach some of his friends
the art of yoga on the lawn, while an-
other friend, Nick Biumi, chose to play
T-ball by himself next to them.

An avid lover of Disney movies, Ste-
phen Moore decided to live out his life-
long fantasy of being Peter Pan. Moore,
dressed in black tights, a green shirt and
armed with a short sword, ran through
campus sprinkling “fairy dust” on stu-
dents and shouting, “To Neverland! To
Neverland!”

Christian Kennedy, dressed in a black
cape, took on the role of Death. Said one
student: “Kennedy likes to walk behind
the smokers on campus and follow them.
Then he will write down their names in
his little black book. He is trying to raise
awareness of lung cancer.”

The absurdity intensiﬁed as the week
continued. In commemoration of the
15th anniversary of Nintendo’s Poke-
mon, Morgan Moskal decided to cel-
ebrate by dressing up as Ash Ketchum,
the lead character from the TV show.

The entire week, he enjoyed searching
for the Pokemon he had always heard
about as a child. When asked if there
was a certain character he was trying to
catch, he responded, “If I can catch Ab-
sher Puff, then I’ll be the world’s great-
est Pokemon master. But right now, I’m
just trying to catch ‘em all.”

David Robinson, after studying me-
dieval architecture in his spare time, ex-
pressed his love for the Middle Ages by
acting as a gargoyle. Robinson, with a
painted grey face and attachable wings,

during the writing of this article

perched himself on the bench outside of
Graham-Lees dorm.

Also outside on the lawn was aspir-
ing sandwich chef, Ian Hooley. Hooley,
known for his specialty P_B&J’s, decided
to share his talent with fellow students
by giving away free sandwiches.

Unfortunately, Spring Fever seems
to have burnt itself out, as the Phi could
ﬁnd no more signs of unusual behavior
by the end of the week.

l\/Iinstrels travel to Elrod Commons

Baul mystics take Islam, Hinduism and Christianity and “sing it, ’

By Jenny Fugate
STAFF WRITER

Barefoot, white chalk on his fore-
head, and dressed in a striking orange
robe, Babukishan Das Baul ﬁlled Elrod
Commons with Bengali fold music and
enlightened the audience on the Baul
tradition.

This Bengali Indian is one of the last
followers of the Baul tradition — an an-
cient brand of spirituality that has been
passed down and kept alive through oral
tradition for centuries.

His wife Trishula summed up Baul
mysticism, saying: “The Bauls take

/

the best of Muslim religion, Hinduism,
Christianity... etc, grind it into a juice,
and then sing it.”

The Bauls are travelling minstrels
that use their unique form of folk music
to communicate to their audience their
concept of spirituality based on love and
a relationship with God.

The strange instruments he played,
such as the iconic “ektara,” with his lilt-
ing, rich voice combined with his repeat-
ed admonitions to the audience to close
their eyes or dance intentionally created

from an alum

When The Uni\‘crsit_\' was in the
midst of the last debate over co-cduca-
lion (there \\ ere several) there were bum-
per stickers that objected to the histori-
cal possibility that W&L would change
course. The bumper stickers cynically
read “\\"./\SlllN(iT()N AND Ll-Il(ill"

and were popular with our friends at
Hampdcn-Sydney whom we would see
when we went “down the road“ at Sweet
Briar. Mary Baldwin and Hollins. We
all should know that tradition fell hard
as a close votc changed the course of
our wonderful school. Many years later

an almost otherworldly atmosphere.

As Babukishan transitioned from one
song to next, he explained more about
the tenets of the Baul philosophy. He
was quick to dispel any preconceptions
of himself as a gypsy; rather he identi-
ﬁed himself and the Bauls as mystics, or
“spiritual messengers.” I

Heiexplained that one of the funda-
mental beliefs of the Bauls is that reli-
gion is merely a human creation, not
something ordained by God himself.

“Before we were born into a Muslim

I find myself reading The Ring-tum Phi
mainly because I married the right girl
who raised my boys to work hard enough

to compete with the girls to attend W&L.
I take note ofall this because the March
5th Phi had articles written by Cynthia

Lam, Tommy Kent, Allie Weiss, Fran-

family or a Hindu family we had no re-
ligion. And when we leave this earth we
will return to God with no religion,” said
Babukishan. _

A large part of Babukishan’s per-
formance was audience interaction. He
repeatedly exhorted the crowd to close
their eyes and “let your soul dance” in

order to create a more energetic ambi- I

ence. He alsoallowed several people to
accompany him using some ofhis instru-
ments.

“I could deﬁnitely see-that as he went

ccsca Wilson, Sally Platt, Campbell
Burr, Gabrielle Tremo. Colleen Moore.
Julia Lancaster, Ann Burton Gerhardt
and Leigh Dannhauser. On top of that
the Washington and Lee women‘s ten-
nis team win a National Championship!
Tommy Kent, you need to ﬁnd a few

’ as Bengali Babukishan Das Baul shared with W&L

. I
on people were opening up more and

buying into it,” junior Wade Marsh said.

After watching Babukishan, Marsh,
who has studied Indian mysticism in his
religion class, said, “You can read about
it and think you know it but when you
are in some type of discourse you are go-
ing to realize that it is a lot more com-
plex than it appears in a textbook.”

good men to help these talented ladies
put out the Phi.
Steve Scully
class or 76

 

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 19,2012

 

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

sports 

, Tennis kicks ace

White leads the way as the Generals defeat two ranked opponents over the weekend

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

The men’s tennis team defeated two
ranked teams at home this weekend. On
Saturday they upset 23"‘ ranked Case
Western University and they defeated

16”‘ ranked Mary Washington.

On Saturday the Generals were led
by the strong performances of junior
Hayden White and ﬁrst-year Taylor
Shamshiri. They teamed up in the ﬁrst
match of the day to defeat Case West-

em’s doubles team of Kyle Gerber and
John Healey. White and Shamshiri also
won each of their singles matches. White
defeated Will Douglas of CWU while
Shamshiri defeated Sean Carr.

For the Generals, Christopher Hu and
Michael Freeman also posted wins in
singles competition.

Hu teamed up with Jeremy Becht to
win the second game of doubles compe-

  

\\ \\I|I\(.|()\ \\I)l I I l \|\ I I{\Il\
llciiirlalimri \lml\i nII\\‘|ll|UlI

MOCK CONVENTION CONGRATULATES

WINNER OF THE
2012 STOREFRONT DECORATING
COMPETITION

FINE MEN’S AND LADIES’ APPAREL
TUXEDO RENTALS & SALES
STUDENT CHARGE ACCOUNTS
CARRY BARBOUR LINE & MORE

www.a|vindennis.com

540.463.5383

Thanés to ailcontest articiantsl

aemtiaa, glue-

102 W. Washington St.

tition.

White also led the Generals to victory
on Sunday over Mary Washington.

White and Shamshiri teamed up to
defeat Mary Washington’s doubles team
of Riley Baver and Kaleb Nguyen.

It looked like it was going to be a
quick win for Washington and Lee after
they had won all three matches of the
doubles competition.

However, Mary Washington fought
back, winning four of the five next
matches. Freeman had the sole singles
win for W&L until the ﬁnal match of the
day.

The ﬁnal match of the day was be-
tween the number one singles playerseon
each team. Representing the Generals
was White, while Evan Charles repre-
sented Mary Washington. White defeat-

 

Career Services
Upcoming Programs

Explore Your Career Options Through
Informal Conversations with Professionals

Tuesday, March 20
Alana Deloseph ‘92

Conversations with Environmentalist and
Film Producer

Wednesday, March 21
Shane \X/ilson ‘O8

Summer Opportunities in Latin America

Tuesday, March 027

Julia Burdajewicz
Conversations with a Paintings Conservator

Monday, April 2

Davis Franklin ‘ll
Succeeding as a Classroom Teacher

Call or come by to register for

 

I07 N Main Street
462-6000

Commons

ed Charles in straight sets, 6-4, 6-2.

With the two victories, the Generals
move to a 10-3 record including a win
streak of eight matches. They return to
the court on Wednesday when they trav-
el to Bridgewater for a 4 p.m. contest.

American Bison have undergone a decline
from 30 million to less than 5,000 wild

and healthy animals. -www.defenders.org

Help the Student Environmental Action League

protect the future of the planet’s threatened fauna.

Tuesday-Thursday March 20-22  Elrod

Enter a raffle for a lineup of prizes from local & organic
purveyors from around Lexington.

”Pure Eats is
Lexington's newest

slice of heaven.”
-The Washington Post (12/30/11)

Premium local burgers, fresh doughnuts,  
fries, Homestead Creamery milk shakes,
daily soups and stews...onIy the good stuff.

Individual Appointment or Lunch

CareerServices

facebook.com/PureEatsYum

for menu updates and news

 

coming soon: beer!

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

sports

 

MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012

in the numbers
25-0  

The run that the Florida Gators went on in the ﬁrst half in their

- game versus the Norfolk State Spartans. The Gators won their

second game of the NCAA tournament 84-50 on Sunday.

4

The total number of points that VCU scored in the ﬁnal 12 min-

utes of their game versus Indiana in the second round of the

NCAA tournament on Saturday. VCU lost the game 63-61.

31.3

The shooting percentage ofthe Kansas State Wildcats in their

game versus the Syracuse Orange in the second round of the

NCAA tournament. The Wildcats went 21-67 from the ﬁeld

while losing to the Orange 75-59.

6

The total number of No. 15 seeds that have defeated No.2

seeds in the history ofthe NCAA tournament. Two of them have

occurred this year with Lehigh’s upset of Duke and Norfolk’

State's upset of Missouri. None of the previous teams has ever

won the next game of the tournament following the upset.

Baseball sweeps doubleheader

Pitchers Smith and Shaw both have strong outings on the mound

By Zack Richards
STA F F W R I T E R

The Washington and Lee Generals had the
luck of the Irish today, as they swept the Guil-
ford Quakers with a pair of ninth inning come-
back victories at Captain Dick Smith Field,
extending their home win streak to six games.

On this St. Patrick’s Day, the Washington
and Lee squad won two vital Old Dominion
Athletic Conference games with solid pitching
and clutch hitting deﬁning the play.

Pat Smith, the senior pitcher from New Jer-
sey started the ﬁrst game of the double header.
He surrendered one unearned run on four hits
in nine innings, allowing the Generals to stay
close until the offense could provide some
support.

Luke Deary, the junior starting catcher of
the ﬁrst game, knocked in the winning run on
a double. CJ Thompson scored after reaching
on an error and advancing when Alston James
was hit by a pitch.

Michael Decembrino scored in the eighth
frame to tie the game, when Jonathon Stutts
took Ryan Lindsay’s pitch for a single. Lind-
say relieved Will James after seven scoreless
innings.

After the ﬁrst ninth inning rally, Ian Shaw

took the mound in hopes of winning his fourth
game in a row, yet he would not get the win on
his 21 st birthday.

After the game, despite pitching well in
seven and a third innings and surrendering
three earned runs, Shaw said, _“Today I would
have liked to have kept a few runs off the
board.”

Like Smith in the ﬁrst game, Shaw allowed
Washington and Lee to stay close until the of-
fense could come though, as they did in the
seventh and ninth innings scoring two and one
runs, respectively.

Alex Mait knocked in Will Salley to score
the Generals’ ﬁrst run in the bottom of the
fourth inning on a single. The hit gave the’
team a short lead, until the Quakers scored
three runs between the ﬁfth and sixth innings.
Mait went three for three in the second game
with the one RBI.

Catching up with him after the game, Mait
said, “I had lots of conﬁdence today. I came
back from the SVU game and was feeling re-
ally good at the plate,” after his ﬁrst collegiate
perfect game at the plate.

It wasn’t until the bottom of the seventh

that Washington and Lee would strike again,
tying Guilford with two runs off of singles
from both James and Decembrino.

Junior pitcher Eric Wisotsky replaced
Shaw in the seventh, pitching an inning and
allowing one hit. It was the hit given up in the
eighth that led to Jake Rudolph coming out of
the bullpen to throw a single pitch and record
a double play.

Commenting on his outing Wisotsky said,
“Despite not having my best stuff, I was able
to work around everything,” which summed
up both of the Generals’ victories.

After solid pitching from the bullpen,
Washington and Lee used another clutch hit
from Stutts to win the second game. After
walking and stealing second, Decembrino was
able to score Stutts’ blooper to right ﬁeld.

Rudolph earned the victory, as the Quak-
ers’ Micah Winterstein recorded a loss in two
and a third innings in relief of starter Borja
Jones-Berasaluce.

Since starting the season with ﬁve losses,
the Generals have won eleven of their last
fourteen.

Women’s track starts offwell

F ugate breaks the school 400m hurdle record in the outdoor season opener

By Catherine Tinney
STA F F W R I T E R

In the ﬁrst-outdoor meet of the season, the
Generals had some very strong performanc-
es in a meet with competitors from all three
NCAA divisions.

The women’s track team was led by the
ﬁrst-place performances of Janey Fugate and
Annelise Madison.

Fugate broke the school record in the 400
meter hurdles. She ﬁnished the race in 64.24
and currently has the second fastest time in the
nation in the event.

The 400 meter hurdles was the strongest
event for the team as a whole. The Generals
took home ﬁrst, fourth, and ﬁfth places. Along

 l with Fugatek ﬁrst Place ﬁnish» senior Natalie

soapbox

"This team, in spite of whatever downs
we've had and losses like today, has been a
really special group. We haven’t always had
success, but it's a group that all year fought
for each other and cared for each other. I’m
proud to be associated with these guys.

-GoomslnwnooachJohnThompeonllIaﬂnr1hoHqasIost
to1.1.thIanItadNorI:l1GarollnaSIatio66-Bslntlrosocond
roundoI'1heNCM1numament.FtomSl.com

“Ever since I was growing up, they never ,

forced it on me. It was just something that I

fell in love with.”

-Bqylorguardmadyﬂesllptalldngabout his famllyaniar
Bavlordotbauadooloradoao-sslntheseoondmundofihe
IKMAumnnnnnLHadmnmenqﬂwwatﬁuumpﬂmmnm
hunammhkwnhmmuwmu27pdmsmuxuumMM12

mmbehInd1hoaIc.Fromsl.oom

 

WE WOULD LIKE TO WISH THE MEN’s SWIM TEAM
GOOD LUCK As THEY HEAD TO INDIANAPOLIS
FOR THE NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS THIS WEEK.
THE NATIONAL MEET BEGINS WEDNESDAY
MORNING AT 11 AM AND THE FINAL SESSION
BEGINS SATURDAY AT 5:30 P.M.

ondeck

Stier took home fourth place and ﬁrst-year Jil-

lian Katterhagen took ﬁfth place in her ﬁrst
ever 400 meter hurdle race.

Madison was the second event-winner of
the day for the Generals. She won the 800 me-
ter run in a personal best time of 2:18.46.

The Generals also had nine other top ﬁve
ﬁnishes in a variety of events. The Gener-
al’s scored in the ﬁeld events, the relays, the
sprints, and the longer distances.

Katterhagen placed second in the pole vault
in one of the ﬁrst events of the day. Her vault
of 3.12 meters (l0’2.75”) was the top height
in Division III.

The 4x100 meter relay team of Fugate,
Stier, and sophomores Julia Murray and Lau-
ran Woodie ran a time of5l.55 to place fourth

overall.

In the longer distances, junior Lauren
Schultz placed third in the 5,000 meter run.
Sophomore Brandie Huffman added a fourth-
place ﬁnish in the 10,000 meter run.

In the sprints, Woodie placed fourth in the
400 with a time of 1:01.48. This was the fast-
est time among Div. III competitors.

The Generals return to the track as they
host the annual Washington and Lee Track
Carnival this weekend. Action starts on Fri-
day at Wilson Stadium at 1 p.m. Saturday’s
events start at 9 a.m at VMI. The full schedule
of events can be found at www.generalssports.
com under the women’s track and ﬁeld page.‘

Women’s Lax defeats Catholic

They take an I] -5 lead in the second half and hold 0]?’ a late comeback attempt

By Hailey Hartley
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The l4th ranked women’s lacrosse team
beat 17th ranked Catholic on Saturday in a
critical matchup at home by a score of 1 1-10.

Both teams played with a sense of urgency,
but the game was plagued by turnovers; Wash-
ington and Lee and Catholic had 22 turnovers
each and several of Catholic’s ﬁrst half goals
could be directly attributed to Generals’ mis-
takes.

Despite the turnovers, W&L went into

Tuesday Wednesday

halftime tied at four. After a quick second half
goal by Catholic, W&L gained momentum
and scored seven unanswered goals. Sopho-
mores Greta Witter and Margaret Klein had
two goals each during the run. Witter ﬁnished
the game with three goals scored.

Catholic’s attempt at a comeback late in
the second half was cut one goal short when
senior Christina Benedetti forced a turnover in
General territory that allowed W&L to run out

Thursday

the 1:44 remaining on the clock.

First-year goalie Cara Mulligan had sev-
eral spectalar saves during the game, tallying
11 saves while playing the entire 60 minutes
in the net.

The women’s lacrosse team will return to
Watt Field on Wednesday as they face fellow
Old Dominion Athletic Conference team Roa-
noke at 4:30 pm..

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

Saturday Suday

 

Women’s Tennis

vs Sweet Briar 4:30

vs Williams 4 pm

vs Emory 10 am

Men’s Lacrosse

at Guilford 7 pm

at Lynchburg 7 pm

Women’s Lacrosse

vs Roanoke 4:30 pm

B a s e b a I I at Bridgewater 4 pm VS AVe'ett 3 Pm at H-5 12 and 3 Pm
Men’s Ten n is at Bridgewater4pm at H-Sipm
T r a c k vs Carniva|1 pm vs Carnival 9 am
G o If at C&F Bank Invite

vs Mary Wash.2 pm

 

/Q.

 

