   
  

Arch
“B7 8.755
R55?-

F

  

\= i5.’

 

   A   Track&He|d record breakers.

‘ SPORTS/page6

/

R-E—S-P—E{I—T.

All columnist Francesca Wilson is askin‘for...

.//

OPINIONS/page6

MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012

WASHINGTON AND I

THE RING-TUM Pi-11-

BY IHE SIUDEHYS AND FUR YHE SIUDEIUISSIHCE III? VOLUME‘CXV,NUMBER;l'2fy

LEE UNIVERSITY

’,.

:

Carville, Cantor, Coulter & more

Convention speakers announced, Carvilleﬁrst non-party member to speak at a Washington and Lee Mock Convention

By Neil Haggerty
C o P Y E D IT 0 R

With only two weeks until the Wash-
ington and Lee Mock Convention, nine
more inﬂuential political ﬁgures, along
with Keynote Speaker Haley Barbour,
have been conﬁrmed for the convention.

Communications Co-Chair senior
Kali McFarland said the convention or-
ganizers wanted speakers to make the
convention as realistic as possible.

“We strive to make Mock Con as
close to an actual nominating convention
as possible. So, just like the real party
organizers use the convention as a plat-

‘ fonn for prominent or rising members of

the party to speak. . .we bring speakers to
our convention to do the same,” McFar-
land said. '

On Feb. 9, New York Times best-sell-
ing author and Republican political com-
mentator Ann Coulter and Democratic
political consultant James Carville will
kick off convention week by going head-
to-head in a debate. Coulter has suggest-
ed on her website that “Romney is the
most electable candidate” and Carville
has had long running success in manag-

at

 C()l,!fc]~  HlI(‘/{(11786

ing democratic political campaigns. Car-
ville is also the first out-of-patty speaker
in Mock Convention’s history.

According to senior Sorelle Peat,
Mock Convention Speakers Chair,
i“When selecting [Coulter and Carville]
‘we had a debate in mind. Knowing this
high energy Republican-Democrat pair-
ing would inevitably be both entertain-
ing and educational, we thought it would
be a great way to start off Convention
weekend.” *

This debate will be moderated by
Mike Allen ’86 and Kelly Evans ‘O7.

According to mockconvenfirm.com,
Allen “is the chief White House cor-
respondent for POLITICO” and Evans
is a Wall Street J0llI'I7(l/ Columnist and
“recently moderated the fiery Fox News/
WSJ Republican debate in South Caro-
lina.”

Following this debate will be an
opening speech by Mick Huckabee, the
former governor of Arkansas and Re-
publican pesidential primary candidate.
According to nzikeliuc/icabee.com, he is

S/re/ly C apito

the host ofa “number one rated weekend
hit” on the Fox News Channel.

“Huckabee seemed like an ideal
candidate for an opening speech for the
2012 Mock Convention because of both
his experience on the campaign trail and
as governor as well as his insights into
the Republican Party and the upcoming
election,” said Peat.

Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell

will also be speaking at the convention.
“McDonnell has gained national atten-
tion in recemt months as an inﬂuential
member of the Republican Party,” ac-
cording to moc'kconvention.com.

Republican House Majority Leader
and representative of Virginia’s seventh
Congressional District Eric Cantor has
been conﬁrmed to speak on the day of
the convention.

"His role in the House of Representa-
tives and his leadership in the Republi-
can Pany give him a different perspec-
tive than some of our other speakers.
We’re excited to see what his Congress-
oriented outlook will bring to the table,”

I.
James. C arvil/e

Peat said.

Another Virginia congressman, repre-
senting the sixth Congressional District,
Republican Bob Goodlatte, will also be
speaking at the convention. Goodlatte is
in his tenth term representing a district
with "more colleges and universities
than most other congressional districts in
the country,” including W&L, according
to good/afte.11oz1se. gov. »

Goodlatte is a W&L Law School
graduate and “has been incredibly sup-
portive of Mock Convention and W&L
in the past,” Peat said. ,

Republican Shelley Capito, also con-
firmed to speak at the convention, rep-
resents West Virginia’s second congres-
sional district. “She is currently the only
woman in West Virginia’s congressional
delegation,” according to capiro./vozise.
gov.

"Capito serves on our advisory board-

and has been a great supporter of W&L
and Mock Convention....Not to mention,
she has many proud West Virginia con-
stituents who are excited to see her [at

Haley Barbour Kelly E vans

the convention].”

While the goal of the W&L Mock
Convention is to predict the out-of-pow-
er part candidate for president, speak-
ers are an important part of the event.
“We’ve also got a track record for pre-
dicting who the party’s up-and—comers
are, based on who we_’ve brought in the
past,” said McFarland.

“Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter both
spoke her before they were elected_presi-
dent, and Newt Gingrich spoke at Mock
Con in 1996, towards the begin-
ning of his ca- ‘ reer
as speaker
of the

 
  
  

McFarland.

Mike A //en

 

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

2 - THE RING-TUIVI PHI - FEB 01 2912

  opin I

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012

  

The future of health care policy

Columnist Yates Wilburn critiques Obamacare and takes a crack at sh

On March
26th of this year,
the Supreme
Court will hear
arguments
from lawyers
of the Obama
administration
and those of 26
states regarding
the constitution-
ality of the Pa-
tient Protection
and Affordable
Care Act, aka
Obamacare (for
convenience I’ll
call them the Dems and GOP, respec-
tively). Speciﬁcally, the case revolves
around the “individual mandate,” requir-
ing all Americans to purchase health in-
surance or face a ﬁne amounting to 2.5%
of a violator’s income. If this provision
is struck down, all the other provisions
of this law, Obama’s nation-saving/so-
cialist propagating achievement (pick
your poison) will be crippled at best and
destroyed at worst.

So, it’s a pretty big deal.

For kicks, let’s assume that the GOP
is successful, the Supreme Court rules
the individual mandate as unconstitu-
tional, and that all of Obamacare is, in
name and practice, repealed. Well, that
means we return to the old ways of doing
things. This means that while small 50-
employee businesses won’t go bankrupt
providing their workers with health in-
surance, the negatives of the old system

By Yates Wilburn
COLU M N l sr

‘ will also return. That includes spending

caps, pre-existing conditions, etc. No
one wants that, so the GOP will have to
come up with an" alternative, a reform
bill so bold, revolutionary, and awesome
that it solves our healthcare problems
and doesn’t bankrupt the country at the
same time.

What is that going to look like? Con-
sidering the GOP’s tactic of using the
10th amendment to torpedo Obamacare
from the start, the GOP will more than
likely do little more than push federal
Medicare money to the states, include
something about people being able to
buy insurance across state lines, and call
it a day.

Just doing this and nothing else is
a bad idea. I can’t rely on the govern-
ment of my beautiful South Carolina to
do much of anything right, and I’m sure
everyone reading this would say some-

thing similar about his or her state. What
makes the GOP think the state govem-
ments will run things any better? The
South Carolina DMV gave me my per-
manent license 6 months early (leam-
ing drivers get it early if they have a
clean record) despite the fact that I had
2 speeding tickets and a ticket for roll-
ing through a stop sign! In fact, when I
checked later, those tickets weren’t even
on my record anymore (made me happy,
then horriﬁed). How is an entity like that
supposed to come up with healthcare
laws and reforms to beneﬁt its citizens
any more effectively than the federal
government?

I’m not saying we should stick with
Obamacare (oh please, God, in the name
of- small business nol), nor am I saying
that we should rely on a GOP Congress
to come up with an equally complicat-

doesn’t happen to be based in SC.

3. Disallow insurance companies
from using “pre-existing conditions” as
a shield. Not only is this a problem for
people changing insurance companies
for whatever reason, it’s also a major
obstacle for people who have been in
the same company for their entire lives,
who just happen to be born with some
condition that makes them more prone to
some illnesses.

4. Now forced to insure people with
pre-existing conditions, allow insurance
companies to charge people who smoke,
eat poorly, don’t exercise, and have adult
onset diabetes more for their unhealthy
behaviors to make up for the new costs.

5. Allow the states to keep their
Medicare dollars and spend them string
free; if the states are inept when it comes
to this issue, the federal government is

Under “Yates Wilburn is Salvation for American

Healthcare ” (patent pending, arrogance and self-

satisfaction included with purchase), you are re-

warded for having health insurance.
 

ed and horrifying government run plan
(aargh!!!). What I’m saying is that we
can’t have 50 different sets of healthcare
laws and regulations that health insur-
ance companies have to follow indepen-
dently. The paperwork and lawyer fees
alone would cause costs to increase even
faster. There has to be a very basic set
of rules that insurance companies (note
I said nothing of requiring businesses of
over 50 employees to do anything, prob-
ably the worst part of Obamacare) every-
where would have to follow, if the states
want to add something on, they are more
than welcome.

IfI had to come up with a plan to ﬁx
healthcare in America, it would be very
simple, and it would include the follow-
ing and only the following:

1. Cap malpractice lawsuit damages
at $1 million plus health costs as a result
of said malpractice. This is more than
enough to cover the physical, legal, and
emotional damage caused by a case of
malpractice.

2. Allow (or force, pick your poison)
health insurance companies to compete
nationally. Meaning, ifl live in SC, I can
shop around like I would for car insur-

lltiaammmlulhvan

THE RING-TUM PHI.

ance and
purchase
an insur-
ance pol-
icy I like
even if it

MANAGING EDITOR

DIANDRA SPICAK

both clueless and inept.

6. Finally, and I’ll probably get
kicked out of the College Republicans
for this, you’ve got to create an incentive
for everyone in America to get health in-
surance. I’d suggest a tax credit for peo-
ple with insurance, and people without it
don’t get said credit.

My fellow Republicans would call
this a mandate. That’s ﬁne. They’ll have
to call tax credits and subsidies for fu-
el-efﬁcient cars, natural gas powered
vehicles, energy efficient appliances,
“Cash-for-Clunkers,” bio—fueIs (a com-

plete joke), and forced ethanol infusion

in gasoline mandates as well.

“But that’s different,” you’re shout-
ing to yourself. “You can avoid purchas-
ing those items! You aren’t forced to do
anything in those instances!” Same here,
nothing changes for people without in-
surance, it’s just people who have it that
get a tax credit. You are perfectly free to
kick death in the kneecaps when you are
healthy, and then go crying and sniﬁiing
to the ER when you aren’t. This is exact-
ly how the “mandate” was implemented
in Massachusetts under Mitt Romney.

What’s that? You say it’s just like
Obamacare? Wrong again, faceless op-
ponent. This is the exact opposite of
the Obamacare mandate. Under Obam-
acare, you are penalized for not hav-
ing health insurance, much like you are
for not wearing your seatbelt. Under

“Yates Wilbum’s Salvation for Ameri-
can Healthcare” (patent pending, arro-
gance and self-satisfaction included with
purchase), you are rewarded for having
health insurance. That isn’t unconstitu-
tional in my opinion.

Just so we don’t get mixed up, let’s
call my version (which I totally stole
from my choice for president, Mitt Rom-
ney) the “individual bonus.”

Call it what you want, it’s what is
needed. You can’t solve the problem of
thousands of people without insurance
running to the emergency room for free
care without this clause. People like this
cost hospitals and state governments bil-
lions of dollars every year, and force in-
.surance companies to pay higher prices
for medical care to make up for it. This
is passed on to policyholders, who are
forced to pay higher and higher prices
for insurance each month. Furthermore,

if you want to maintain a private, capi- 

talist healthcare system, you can’t ask
insurance companies to take everyone
who’s got the cash without giving an ex-
panded pool of potential customers.

Surprisingly enough, many of my fel-
low GOPers are (or at least were) sup-
porters of the “individual mandate,” as it
stands in Obamacare. Including:

Newt Gingrich, post-Congress right
up until he felt like running for President
(Washington Post, “Newt’s Changing
Stance on Healthcare Mandates”).

He even said in a speech in 2008,
“The third thing I think you have to do,
which is for a conservative a little con-
troversial, is I think you’ve got to require
everybody to either have insurance or to
post a bond,” and that it is “immoral” for
someone to gamble with their healthcare.
There are a half a dozen other instances
where he supported the idea of an indi-
vidual mandate (The Blaze, “2008 video
surfaces of Gingrich supporting health-
care mandate”).

The Heritage Foundation, in com-
petition with a Democratic reform plan
back in the 90’s (ProCon.org, History of
the Individual Health Insurance Man-
date).

Sponsors of the Health Equity and
Access Reform Today Act of 1993
(Washington Post, “A Lot of Repub-
licans Supported the Individual Man-
date”).

Orrin Hatch (R-UT)

Charles Grassley (R-IA)

Robert Bennett (R- UT)

Christopher Bond (R-M0)

Bob Dole (R-KS)

Arlen Specter (R-PA)

Ted Stevens (R-AK)

John Warner (R- VA)

William Cohen (R-ME)

aping health care policy for the United States

Oh, and thesponsors of the Con-
sumer Choice Health Security Act of
1994 (Washington Post, “A Lot of Re-
publicans Supported the Individual
Mandate”).

Robert Bennett (R- UT)

Daniel Coats (R-IN)

Bob Dole (R-KS)

Charles Grassley (R-IA)

Judd Gregg (R-NH)

Orrin Hatch (R- U7)

Kay Hutchison (R-TX)

Richard Lugar (R-IN)

Alan Simpson (R- WY)

George HW Bush while he was in
the White House (Washington Post, “A
Lot of Republicans Supported the Indi-
vidual Mandate”).

And of course Mitt Romney sup-
porting the “individual bonus” in 1994
and today (Washington Post, “A Lot of
Republicans Supported the Individual
Mandate”).

The tactic of using the courts and the
10th amendment against Obamacare is
not rooted in ideology (at least not that
of the GOP), but nothing more than
the realization that it was the only way
in hell that they could knock down the
law. I’d bet you next term’s tuition that
if you were to sit every Republican law-
maker down in a soundproof room and
inject them with truth serum, at least
75% percent would say they don’t actu-
ally care that the individual mandate as
written in Obamacare violates the 10th
amendment (which it totally does in my
opinion). The “individual bonus” on the
other hand, does not because it does not
force anyone to do anything at the fed-
eral level.

To be clear, I am not out to get the
Republican Party (my party), nor am I
out to get the Democratic Party. Due to
the fact that no one really cares what I
say or think, I get to tell the truth about
the “individual mandate” without conse-
quences (minus the likelihood of losing
my run for Junior Class Representative
in the College Republicans, of course),
something that Republican lawmakers
today must not do in the name of po-
litical expediency. Still, of all of them
I think Mitt Romney and Ron Paul are
being the most honest about this issue,
considering Mitt Romney refuses to
apologize for the “individual bonus” in
his state (though he has suffered for his
previous support for a nationwide ver-
sion), and Ron Paul has always been a
constitutional perfectionist.

So, the next time you see Mitt Rom-
ney, Newt Gingrich, or Rick Santorum
call someone else on that stage a ﬂip-
ﬂopper on this issue, remember that only
Ron Paul has been consistent enough to
make that charge free of hypocrisy.

ELEANoR KENNEDY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
LEIGH DANNHOUSER
NEIL HAGGERTY
CYNTHIA LAM ,
ERIN SCHWARTZ I 1

NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

COPY EDITORS

CHRISTINA BENEDETTI
ANNA DIBENEDETTO
RYAN JOHNSON
EVELYN NORTON
STEPHEN PECK
SALLY PLATT
ANDREW RENALDO
ANDREA siso
TRAVIS WAKEMAN
YATES WILBURN
FRANCESCA WILSON

STAFF WRITERS

JULIANNA SATTERLY
COY FERRELL

MATT GOSSETT
DAVE WILSON
DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, weaspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

 

ByFI'anoesII:a'WI‘ n
cI:ILuMHlsT
Everyone loves to
point out the under-
tones of sexism on
Washington and Lee’s
campus. In many re-
spects the power of
the fraternities and
the lingering tradi-
tions of a Southern,
“Good ‘Ole Boy” in-
stitution do maintain
a chauvinistic culture
at our university. The
system of fratemi-
ties is gloriﬁed and
the men’s houses‘ are
largely responsible
for the school’s suc-
cessful social events.

DESIGN EDITOR’
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

THE RINGWUM PH4 is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RlNG—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This

Many of the fraternities at W&L
have been around for dozens of
years and have become institutions
with powerful alumni and passion-
ate actives.

his living situation and the pack-
like dynamic of his fraternity for
their relationship problems. While
I believe there is a huge amount of

A look into W&L’s “Gender Game”

Francesca Wilson encourages girls to command more respect from boys

in order to balance out the skewed
gender dynamics that have come to
characterize W&L’s social world.
For example, many chauvinistic
traditions

A strong Greek
system fosters a cul-
ture of cliques. In
terms of sororities,
girls become irra-
tionally competitive
during recruitment
and often times this
sentiment colors the entire aca-
demic year. As far as the fraternities
go, the boys seem to have slightly
less obsessive competition com-
plexes yet they certainly put eﬂbrt
into one-upping each other with
themed parties and the most ridicu-
lous pledge tasks. However, many
boys seem to change when they are
in the presence of a large group of
their fraternity brothers. Fraternities
seem to inspire a particularly strong
group mentality that can inﬂuence
its members. Throughout my time
at W&L. I have heard the phrase,
“pledging such and such a frat
completely changed him,” when a
newly pledged or initiated frater-
nity boy suddenly changes the way
he is acting towards a girl. Girls are
constantly blaming a boy’s friends,

Girls are constantly blaming a boy is friends, his liv-
ing situation and the pack—like dynamic of his fra-
ternity for their relationship problems.
 

validity in these statements, the cul-
ture of chauvinism is so ingrained
within this community that it isn’t
worth the female students time to
try and re-write the history of the
university. Sexism is an established
current within W&L and only time
will tell if the institution will ever
truly be able to shake this negative
reality.

Therefore, I implore the female
community of W&L to both stop
making excuses for and to stop
blaming the “gentlemen” of our
campus for all of our own trials and
tribulations. We’re giving them too
much credit. If we blame men for
our problems we’re automatically
handing them authority and control.
Instead, there needs to exist an even
split of authority on this campus

are far too
accepted by
the women
of W&L,
such as the
annual Jello
Wrestling
Competi-
tion. As far as I know, the females
who participate in this crude event
sign a consent form. .. but seriously,
why on earth are sorority women
pledging their support of such a
crude and degrading event?

In essence, boys treat girls badly
on our college campus (and proba-
bly every other campus in America)
because girls allow them to. Sure,
the fraternity system has many sex-
ist qualities, but that’s something
we already know and it isn’t going
anywhere. Therefore, it’s up to the
women of this community to make
the changes, to disregard the male
hyperbole, and ultimately to com-
mand more personal respect.

newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

classilieil

Student Housing

‘Midland Trail, (2012-2013), 6 bdrms. 3 baths, kitchen,

living rm.,

d. rm., huge rec room, sun porch, gas fireplace, electric heat,
commercial dishwasher, off street parking. (804) 380-0645

Or

vawi ldflower@verizon . net

 

 

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 30,2012

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

 

   
   
  
   
      
   
 

Want to get ﬁt and have fun? Columnist Sally Platt recommends W &L ’s Group Exercise classes

I am here to
tell you about
Group Exer-
cise. Now usu-
ally things that
start with the
word “group”
are rather decid-
 edly unpleasant.

V Take “group
, g 7, . ‘ therapy,” “group
. v projects” or
I $4? 3 “groupies” for
' le. But

By Sally Platt examp .
COLUMN“ Group Exercise

is different. For
those of you_who are uninitiated, Group
Exercise is a service offered by W&L.
It consists of exercise classes offered at
various times during the day in variotis
physical disciplines. There are a lot of
reasons forjoining.

For one, it makes you just one step
closer to actually fulﬁlling your New
Year’s Resolutions (remember those‘?).
Even just swiping home the $100 fee for
a semester is a great conﬁdence booster.

You don’t even have to attend the classes
-- just the intention to do so makes you
feel like a better person.

But then, there actually are reasons
for wanting to go to the classes. First,
the instructors are great. They range
from the very upbeat (see: Sport Circuit
and Body Sculpt) to the earthy and hip-
pie (see Pilates and Yoga). Then there is
Rob. Rob Benevento. Rob makes these
classes so much better. He is Italian and
young and buff He plays the unedited
versions of all the best songs. His classes
are very popular.

One ofthe classes Rob teaches is Cy-
cling. Cycling class takes place on the
landing above the gym. It also happens
to take place at exactly the same time the
boys’ basketball team practices down
below. Contrary to popular opinion, we
women do not go to this class simply to
watch the boys practice. Just thought I
would clear that up.

That wouldn’t be such a bad reason
for going though, as boys are very rare
in Group Exercise. I guess the idea of
doing jumping jacks in unison to Mi-

ley Cyrus somehow just doesn”t appeal
to the male sex. I know of only three
brave souls who have broken this tradi-
tion. There is Professor Velasquc/.. who
regularly attends yoga. If you know Pro-

\\ orkout suit clad male who, we assumed
correctly. was a pledge. I love this time
of year.

The third male visitor is a bit of mys-
tery. He only goes to yoga classes. He

The consistent part oft/7e class is that hefrequently,

at least twenty times a class, reminds us to “blos-

som our buttocks ” when doing poses.

 

fessor Velasquez, this will come as no
surprise. It brings me great pleasure to
see him struggling to ﬁt his body into a
“pretzel pose" and be able to tliinl<._ “"r't:s.
I am ﬁnally better at soiiietliing than Pio-
fessor Velasquez!”

Zumba class was also graced with a
surprise male presence this past week.
For those of you who don‘t know.
Zumba is an intense dance class done to
popular hip-hop beats. It is yer-y popu-
Iar with women. This past 'l'litirsday the
class had a visitor in the form of a neon

is actually quite good at it. He appears
to be a normal W&L guy. What, a nor-
inal, straight, W&L guy who does yoga?
Does this exist‘? Like I said, he is a bit of
a mystery. Iﬁitlier way. he certainly must
liavc balls.

' Yoga is actually a bit of a mystery
itself. I had never gone until this past se-
mester. It was a bit unnerving. First the
iiistriictor or “guru” turned out the light.
(Um. ok.) Then he proceeded to take us
through a series ofcontoitions that make
my body htirt just to think about. The

opinions

  A step towards a six-pack

consistent part of the class is that he
frequently, at least twenty times a class,
reminds us to “blossom our buttocks”
when doing poses. Those are his exact
words. I have never ﬁgured out exactly
what this means, and am not sure I care
to know. A

Regardless, Group Exercise is a lot of
fun. The only downside? Unless you’re
a real exercise freak, you don’t get to
do the people-watching that naturally

accompanies any trip to the gym. What .

a shame. I too once thought grunting
loudly while lifting heavy objects would
attract members of the opposite sex.
Still, Group Exercise is worth it. It is
fun. lt’s a way to get ﬁt. You get to watch
the basketball team. (Ok, it’s not why
we go but that doesn’t mean we don’t
occasionally glance down.) So whether
male or female, you shouldjoin. Iimean
what other chance are you going to get to
“blossom your buttocks” in public?

How to extinguish a red dot

How do you stop a friend from making a decision she ’ll regret?Burr suggests slick ways to send her home alone I

It is a Satur-
day night. While
. searching for a
clean bathroom
on Windfall (a
hopeless endeav-
I or), you glance
across the room
and spot one
of your friends
holding an emp-
ty bottle of wine
and struggling
to stand. She is
attempting to ﬁt

' her entire ﬁst in
her mouth, most likely to impress the
male suitor grabbing her hips.

You laugh, and then realize that what
you are seeing will not be funny the next
day, when your friend is wishing she
could erase the memories of an entire
fraternity. The ball is in your court to
step in and stop her from doing some-
thing she’ll regret.

But let’s be honest. Nobody wants to

aycampbeiin

OPINIONS EDITOR

' be the “fun-killer,” the mom away from

home, the lame one who’s afraid of a
good time. Replace physically pushing
the offending couple apart and scream-
ing, “Make room for the Holy Spirit,”

with one of these tactics. I have put to-
gether a list of ways to extinguish those
red dots while remaining cool.

1. Make your friend think you need
to be taken home

If you can’t stop ‘em, join ‘em. Your
friend is clearly doing something she
should not be doing, so go ahead and
do something you should not be doing.
Something so bad, so embarrassing, so
jaw dropping, that she leaves her suitor
and pulls you onto Traveller.

Options include making out with a
wall, opening a beer and pouring it on

home and you pull your books out for a
little late-night studying!

2. Make both parties feel so awk-
ward that they havc no choice lint to
separate

Try one ofthese:

“Oh my gosh, Sarah. he I00!-(S just
like the dude who shacked \\ itli you last
night! You really know your type. . 

“Sarah, is THIS the boy you‘\e been
talking about‘?! (disgusted glance at inale
half of offending pair) I wouldn‘t say
he’s ‘Sexiest Man /\live‘—iiizitei’ial like
you’ve been claiming all week.“

It may consist ofmaking out with a wall, opening (1

beer and pouring it on your own head while a’o1'ng

the “Stanky Leg, ” or lapping beer out of your So/o

cup with your tongue and barking

your own head while doing the “Stanky
Leg,” or lapping beer out of your Solo
cup with your tongue and barking.

She probably thinks you’re blotto.
Joke’s on her when the two of you get

othe editor

Dear itor,

While reading the last edition of the
Ring-Tum Phi, I was pleasantly sur-
prised to ﬁnd the article, “Analyzing
Gender Relations,” in which Francesca
Wilson calls attention to issues of gen-
der relations on the W&L campus. While
she ends her article with the promise of
future discussions about these issues in
her column, I would like to call attention
to some of the causes of gender discrimi-
nation on campus. The gender divide at
W&L exists, and I feel that W&L women
are oftentimes actively participating in
perpetuating negative gender roles and
stereotypes. I often read articles in the
Phi that exhibit underlying gender is-
sues, and this past weeks Phi was not an
exception.

I was quite shocked after reading
the aiticle from Campbell Burr entitled.
“From free beer to slavery: four stages of
brotherhood,” which is clearly written to
W&L women so that they will know how

GREG USSERY/ staff cartoonist

 

they "should expect to interact with the
boys at each stage” ofjoining the Greek
system. While the article is intended to
impart a description of the changing at-
titudes of freshman boys before and after
pledgeship. it says far more about per-
petuating gender roles that W&L women
often enforce themselves.

The description in the article about
how freshmen try to win the respect of
upperclassmcn displays blatant objec-
tification of women as a means to win
merit in the Greek system. Burr imparts
that boys will get points for “the number
of girls "ve hooked up with," or ifa

, oinething along the lines of,
‘I like k ida saw her bra’.” While that
may be considered an objective portrait
_- I ip. Burr imparts an important
en she tells her female audi-
iey ha\-'e been through a lot and
deserve our respect, but beware that they

may be a bit big-headed.”
I must wliolelieartedly disagree.

, ll?! 4'.L§l‘. ‘ ‘

x,_  « 1 ,.,

 

 

“Sarah, you silly girl, combining
Pepto and alcohol will not help the upset
stomach.” lfthat doesii’t destroy sexual
chemistry, I don‘t know what does.

These are not the type of men that de-
serve our respect. W&L women should
not place their respect in men that sexu-
alize women to get ahead in a fraternity,
nor should they offer the “occasional
laundry service” to boys who will be-
come cocky and bigoted once they end
pledgeship. Giving respect to these men
is telling them that they can treat women
however they want, thus enforcing gen-
der discrimination.

Also, saying that “pledge brothers
become absurdly close. closer than they
could become singing songs and baking
cookies together” undermines relation-
ships that W&L women build with one
another just because women do not un-
dergo pledgeship. Women can have ex-
tremely close relationships without hav-
ing to be subjugated to what Burr calls
“slavery.”

On the flip side, ﬁrst-year boys
are entering a place where these stereo-
types persist, and pressure is placed on

     Hum of
~ By Andrea Siso
COLUMNIST

Clandestine hu
Tenderly grazej o
magnificent C
Reflections. .
Thick as thieves in the late"
Light, we I ‘ ' ‘ ' ‘‘
Run through l-lallo
. Puddles;
Splashing about

3. Add your phone number to your
own contacts under a celebrity’s name

I-Ivcryone has that certain celeb-
rity \\ ho they listen to no matter what.
Maybe it‘s an ex-president, maybe it’s
a reality TV star. maybe it’s a rapper.
Type yotir number into your contacts
and save it under said celebrity. Then
write a message that communicates that
the celebrity thinks your friend is mak-
ing a bad choice. Iftliat celebrity is‘Kris
Iliiniphries. adapt the writing style of a
fiyc-yeai‘—oId, communicating simple
ideas and misusing a couple of words.
Then run over and show it to her.

I New Message

Kris Iliimpliriesz No girl should do
something with a random dude, even if
he‘s as whipped as one ofthe Kardashiaii
men. That could get real bad and awk-
ward.

(Yes. using a direct quote from the
show will raise the text’s authenticity.
Also throwing “awkward” somewhere
random in the sentence will "legitimize
the text I00"/o).

At this she'll sprint to Trav, deter-
mined to please Kris by heading to bed
solo.

them to conform. Burr’s article describes
freshmen boys as being coddled by their
mothers: “they... had their rooms deco-
rated by their mommies, who sent them
with extra blankets, in case they get cold.

‘and a nightlight...” The transition to fra-

thood is expressed akin to a transition
into adulthood — that these freshmen
are not “men” until they join a fraternity.
But women should not respect a system
that produces egotistical men that hold
gender biases.

Also, in Rooney and Zuroski‘s
article, W&L girls after tear night are
described as “rounding everyone up
and hashing out the night to ﬁnd out
who scored the best DFM (Dance Floor
Make-out).” This illustrates how coin-
inon it has become for girls to objectify
men on campus. Objectiﬁcation creates
a value system that is based on outer. su-
perﬁcial appearances rather than quali-

oties like loyalty, integrity, and respect. If

women objectify men and coerce them

Distilled countrvsideki ;: j
Temptation.  

theNight 

In of the! night!
in-.ch ’c’l:s we

. sets



4. Use the double-dog dare

We all know that drunk people love
a good challenge. Your friend is already
determined to prove to herself that she
can get with this boy. If you dare her to
do something even crazier, she may for-
get about the boy and focus on her new
challenge.

Approach the couple and turn to Sal-
ly. “Hey Sally, I double-dog dare you to
prgpose to the Traveller driver.” When
she gives you the bring-it-on-look, add,
“And, Sally, if you do it in the next ten
minutes, I’ll order us _Papa John’s.”
Chances are Sally will head to -the door,
determined to prove to you how crazy
she is.

Yes proposing to the'TravelIer driver
is weird, but much more harmless than
going home with a creep. Anyway, the
Traveller driver has seen enough weird
things (a boy and girl throwing up in a
trashcan one second, and making out
with each other the next...yes this hap-
pened). I think he’ll understand.

So next time you’re at a party and you
spot a friend on the verge of doing some-
thing she’ll regret, put one ofthese to the
test! She’ll thank you in the morning.

into the long-established gender rol "
campus, how can women expect differ-
ent treatment?

I must iterate that I am not con-
demning fraternity boys or the Greek
system. I know many people in frater-
nities aiid St orities who are genuinely
great people. However. I am strongly
emphasizing the need to reevaluate \ io
gets our respect and the reasons for it
as well as the institutions that perpetu-
ate gender discrimination. W&L women
have the power to address the current
issues by being aware of how we talk
about men and other women on campus.
Burr‘s article is not the only, nor the ﬁrst
article that I have read in the Phi that
expresses underly gender issues on
campus. Nevertheless, awareness about
these issues need to b piesscd iftliere
is ever going to be c ge.

Sincerely,
Rachel Urban, Class of2()|3

 

,.vy

 

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI ~

arts&|ife

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012

Dancers gracethe stage

River North Chicago Dance company brings the best. of dance to Washington and Lee Universityfs Lenfest Center

By Cynthia Lam
C 0 P Y E D IT 0 R

Mesmerizing music, colorful cos-
tumes, and captivating choreography
swept audiences away as the interna-
tionally renowned River North Dance
Chicago Company captured the spot-
light with a packed performance at the
Keller Theater. The sold-out produc-
tion attracted students, faculty, and local
community members for an evening of
vibrant acts and rousing pieces this past
Tuesday.

The night featured a variety of differ-
ent works and styles, ranging from the
powerful arrangement, Sentir em Nos
(Even for Us), to the bold, saucy ﬁnale,
Habaneras, the Music of Cuba.

Said dance professor and head of the

Acrobatics and ﬂai

The annual competition beneﬁts local food banks; Pi Kappa Phi wins this year ’s competition

By Anna DiBenedetto
5 TA F F w R IT E R

New members of Pi Kappa Phi
ﬂipped their way to ﬁrst place at the an-
nual Lip Sync competition. A Chi Ome-
ga group took second place, dancing to a
mash up of popular songs.

Andrea Siso, part of the Chi 0 group,
said, “we had a lot of fun dancing for a
good cause.”

Proceeds from tickets and group
entry fees beneﬁt the Students Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger, the event

dance program Jenefer Davies: “This
performance was unique in that each
dance piece offered either a scenic el-
ement with some sort of set piece or
strong visual elements with lighting.
Bold, saturated colors were used, light
was formed into speciﬁc shapes, gobos
were used to create designs on the stage.
The layering of the visual effects gave
the show a rock concert type aura.”

The highlights ofthe production were
Beat and Train, two numbers speciﬁcally
selected from the company’s repertoire.
Beat,» a startling, fast-paced percussion-
inspired solo, featured a series of spir-
ited movements paired alongside a back-
ground of structured improvisation.

sponsor. SARAH raises money for local
food banks.

Washington and Lee students packed
into the pavilion on Friday night to cheer
on the teams. mostly composed of ﬁrst-
year sorority women and fraternity men.
Student dance companies and other
campus organizations also participated.

The groups, ranging around eight
people per team, were asked to choreo-
graph a two-minute routine to a song of

Train kicked off the second act with
a dynamic piece starring six performers
as warriors in an abstract ritual dance
blended with contemporary beats.

Said ﬁrst-year Austin "Pierce: “Train
was my absolute favorite. Its upbeat na-
ture, in juxtaposition to the lull of inter-
mission and the slower pace of the dance
Fixé, which came after it, really helped
to reengage the audience.”

Founded in 1989 by four dancers and
choreographers, River North Dance Chi-
cago has grown extensively under the
vision of artistic director "Frank Chaves,
performing in theaters all over the nation
and around the world. By fusing ele-
ments ofclassicjazz with modern styles,

their choice. Students took their groups
to the extreme with matching outﬁts and
synchronized dances. Costumes includ-
ed pink tutus, Hawaiian shirts, cheetah
leggings. and “jorts” (jean shorts).
When it came to song choice, it was
clear that most of the participants grew
up in the 90’s. Aaron Carter, Spice Girls
and the Backstreet Boys were well rep-
resented. Other decades were marked
by a Michael Jackson mix, Trace Ad-

r at Li

the troupe has brought a new twist to its
pieces.

“River North Dance Chicago is a
company of eclectic form,” said Davies.
“They consider themselves contempo-
rary jazz dancers but their style ranges
from classical and contemporary ballet
to classical jazz and more contemporary
hip hop styles. Most companies do have
a signature style. The thing that makes
RNDC unique, and maybe is part of its
success, is that it offers a diversity of
style and therein something for all audi-
ences.”

As a dance student, Pierce was able
to draw inspiration from the production,
discovering many new techniques which

kins’ “Honky Tonk Badonkadonk,” Wil-
low Smith’s “Whip My Hair,” Justin
Bieber’s “Baby,” and Men Without Hats’
“Safety Dance.”

The judging panel consisted of W&L
professors, who got to see another side
of their students. Pi Phi’s ﬁrst-place
team consisted of Ryan McNally, Jack
Powers, Micah Fleet, Brandon Tay-
lor, Joseph Taylor and Craig Shapiro.
Dressed in jeans and white undershirts,

P

he hopes to apply to his own works.
Said Pierce: “I found the use of what I
call “counter-canons” quite intriguing,
and I plan to use such motifs to enhance
the overall thematic quality of my future
dance compositions.”

This was the ultimate goal of Davies,
who required all her students to see this
production to broaden their exposure
to the dance ﬁeld. “Seeing live perfor-
mances is so important,” said Davies.
“The immediacy of the audience-per-
former experience is unparalleled and
can’t be reproduced.”

C

the boys danced to “Bump Bump Bump”
by B2K. The boys also threw some ﬂips
into their routine, rousing a cheer from
the crowd. McNally said of his group’s
act, “We only live once.”

SAIL update on foreign aid

$2000 goes a long way in Kyrgyzstan, a county ravished by recent ethnic conﬂict and perpetual poverty

By Travis Wakeman
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Last year Student Association for In-
ternational Learning sent $2000 in relief
aid to Kyrgyzstan for ethnic conﬂicts
suffered June 2010. On Friday, Bermet
Zhumakadyrkyzy ‘ 11 returned to Wash-
ington and Lee to tell how the funds
collected by SAIL were spent and offer
more information about the current sta-
tus of her country.

The contributions from W&L were
given to the Unity Fund, part of the
American Council for International Edu-
cation (ACTR/ACCELS). Bermet said,
“They were so surprised. . .they basically
got money from somewhere they didn’t
expect to get it. They were so grateful.”

Two grand might not seem like a lot
of aid, but with the exchange rate (1 USD

= 46 SOM) and the lower cost of living
in Kyrgyzstan, SAlL’s donation went a
long way. The majority of aid was used
to purchase medical supplies for a chil-
dren’s treatment center in the city ofOsh.
A modest remainder of funds was used
to help buy prizes for a children’s soccer
tournament at a reformation school.
Most of the children become petty
criminals to help feed their families.
Bermet explained, “They thought they
would organize the soccer tournament as
a symbol that you can win in a fair game.
You don’t have to lie, cheat, or steal.”
Belek lbraev, another Kyrgyzstan
citizen studying at W&L. talked about
his personal reaction to the killings.
“When‘I saw my country on the news, I

was already sure that something was go-
ing wrong. I never saw signs of ethnic
clashes.”

The violence is closely tied to the
forced removal in April 2010 of the sit-
ting Kyrgyz President, Kurmanbek Baki-
yev. He was forced to resign after popu-

' lar demonstrations against him turned

violent. A provisional government was
established but couldn’t control the vio-
lence that ﬂared up for several days in
the southern regions between the Uzbek
and Kyrgyz ethnic groups. Ofﬁcial re-
ports estimate 3000 people were killed.
Actual fatalities were probably higher
because the statistics fail to include those
laid to rest by their own families.

Belek pointed out how poverty might

have also been a factor.

“Many people have asked me who is
responsible for it and whose fault it is. I
would never blame any of the sides be-
cause most of the people who live there
are desperate. They live in poverty 24
hours a day, they work for ten dollars or
less than that a day, so they are constant-
ly in deprivation,” said Belek. “In any
society during harsh times it is easy for
people to blame other people with differ-
ent backgrounds.” ‘

Fortunately there is some hope for
a brighter future with the ﬁrst peaceful
transition of presidential power in Kyr-
gyz history. Roza Otunbayeva became
Central Asia’s ﬁrst female president in
history in 2010.

For Belek this is very signiﬁgantf
“For me this was a sign of Kyrgystan be-
coming a true liberal democracy, a mod-
em state. Whenever I would have talks
with my friends I would emphasize that
she is a woman.”

Bermet said he hopes that with this
transition the future will be brighter for
her people, “People I think are a bit tired
of expecting or hoping, they are just
waiting to see what happens, but at the
same time, people want something good
to happen. We are not all skeptical, we
are optimistic, but not over optimistic...
In any country you always hope for the
better.”

Pop art prevails in Staniar

Andy Warhol and works inspired by the well-known artist are part of an extensive art donation to serveral universities

By Ryan Johnson
5 TA F F w R l T E R

Staniar Gallery kicked off 2012 with
an ambitious collection of works by
Andy Warhol. “In the Event of Andy
Warhol” is a collection of Warhol Pola-
roid’s and works inspired by the artist,
including a ﬁlm by the Washington and
Lee Student Arts League.

W&L invited Warhol scholar Stephen
Petersen to speak Wednesday night on
the history of the art. Peterson chronicled
the photographic methods of Warhol.

Though he took up photography late
in his life, Warhol made tens of thou-
sands of photographs. He enjoyed work-
ing with simplistic , auto-focus and Po-
laroid cameras because of their universal
appeal.

“I think anybody can take a good pic-
ture,” Warhol once said. A

Some of his most impactful pho-
tographs are his Polaroid portraits of
famous celebrities; movie stars, poli-
ticians, and athletes. In each case. he
would take hundreds of pictures, subtly
adjusting for light and angle, of celebri-
ties. With these Iportraits he was aiming
for a uniform glamour; “I try to make
everybody look great.” Ironically, these
portraits are often likened to yearbook
or passport photos. He did thousands of
these photography sessions, charging as
much as $25,000 for the opportunity.

Warhol also made about 20,000
prints from 35mm ﬁlm, some of which

are on display in the gallery.

These photos are often simple, and
Warhol printed 21 photo multiple times to
form grid-like structures, just as in some
of his famous screen prints.

He was obsessed with the automation
involved with point-and-shoot cameras,
buying the newest models as they ar-
rived.

Many of his photographs would
have gone unseen but for the Andy
Warhol Photographic Legacy Program,
launched in 2007. The program donated
more than 28,000 Warhol photographs
to various galleries, museums, and uni-
versities across the country.

W&L, Roanoke College, and Hollins

each received more than 150 photos and
a collaboration of the three collections
is on view. The high-proﬁle donation is
a treasure to students and faculty alike.
Sophomore Hank Hill said that he is,
“thrilled to have the works of a modern
master” in the gallery.

W&L students have a presence in the
exhibition. The Student Arts League put
together a “screen test” video like those
of Andy Warhol, in which participants
would sit facing a camera for several
minutes.

Other works in the exhibit are in-
spired by the work of Andy Warhol.
Shepard Fairey, the famed street artist
behind the Obama “HOPE” posters, is

the creator of one piece and is featured
in another by California artist Piper Fer-
guson

Junior Anthony Kirby said he was
impressed by the “sheer amount of work
that went into Warhol’s photographs.”

“In the Event of Andy Warhol” will
be «showing through Feb. 4, and gal-
lery hours are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday
through Friday. A modiﬁed version of
the show will be on view at Roanoke
College beginning in March and at Hol-
lins beginning in May.

  

O

O

i

”Pure Eats is
Iexington’s newest

slice of heaven."

107 N Main Street -The Washington Post (12/30/11)

462-6000

Premium local burgers, fresh doughnuts,
fries, Homestead Creamery milk shakes,

daily soups and stews...only the good stuff.

lacehooktom/PureEotsYum

for menu updates and news

only nmburl

 

 

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 30,2012

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

ANDREW REL 'ALl)0

Super Bowl XLVI should be a close, even, and entertaining
game. A case could be made for either side to emerge victori-
ous, and so I feel compelled to turn to unconventional analysis
to decide my winner. In short, the New England Patriots will
win Super Bowl XLVI simply because they have Tom Brady.

First things ﬁrst: Tom Brady has returned to short-cropped
hair and the Patriots are back in the Super Bowl. Coincidence?

 

  

ports  

S'l‘EPIlEl ’ PECK

I’ve given up trying to ﬁgure out who the New York Giants
really are.

They went a mediocre 9-7 in the regular season, and were
swept‘in their season series with the lowly Washington Red-
skins. They have a below-average secondary (albeit decimated
by injuries), a thin linebacking corps, and a pedestrian running

' game. Put the Giants in most other divisions in football and

After tearing ligaments in his knee and missing the 2008 sea-
son, Brady began tapping into his inner Fabio in 2009. His hair
continued to grow, culminating in an egregiously long mane
during the 2010 season that can only be described as a ﬁrst-
quarter-of-life-crisis. The hard-working folks in Fall Rivuh and
Charlestown began wondering if their franchise quarterback
had gone too Hollywood. Alas, Brady did the sensible thing in

Who will win Super Bowl XLVI?
Sports writers Andrew and Stephen debate
the repeat rivalry

PATRIOTS v. GIANTS

they don’t even make the playoffs.

And yet they have won ﬁve straight games, all of the “win-
or-go-home” variety, dating back to week 16 against the Jets.
In their past two games, the Giants have beaten the NFL’s best

all the way and had to come from behind. They played on a
frozen tundra and a rain-soaked mud ﬁeld.

2011 and returned to the shorter hair with which he won three
Super Bowls. Bostonians rejoiced, and the Pats are back in the big game.

Brady’s knee injury brings me to my next point: Brady is exorcising the Patriots” demons
this season. To book their place in the Super Bowl, Brady and the Pats beat the Ravens, a
team featuring Bernard Pollard. Pollard, as all Pats fans know, was the player who crashed
into Brady’s leg in "2008, ending the franchise quarterback’s season. This happened in the
Pats’ ﬁrst game after Super Bowl XLII, in which the New York Giants-wthe Pats’ Super Bowl
XLVI opponent-ruined their perfect season. These two events cursed the franchise, as the
team failed to win a playoff game until this season. Now, after beating Pollard and the Ra-
vens’ tough defense (Ravens fans, which was more likely? Billy C undiff missing a 32-yard
chip—shot, or Joe Flacco leading the Ravens to Super Bowlglory while earnestly sporting a
foo—manshu? I’d say the former.) Brady is ready to overcome the Giants’ fearsome pass rush
featuring Jason Pierre—Paul, Osi Umenyiora, and Justin Tuck’s facemask. That this Pats sea-
son coincided with the release of that creepy new exorcism movie must be a sign, and Brady
will bring his team’s cathartic journey full—circle by beating the Giants.

Some may argue that Giants’ quarterback Eli “Earl” Manning is playing better than Brady
right now, but Brady is still the best QB of our time. Manning may have a Super Bowl ring,
but Brady has three. Manning may have a few humorous ads with his brother Peyton, but
Brady is regularly featured in People magazine. Manning may have ﬁnally cemented his
claim to “elite” status, but Brady is still polishing his decade-long legacy. And as for their
prestigious WAGS—Manning may be married to a girl you can probably find in a Delta Delta
Delta composite on the Ole Miss campus or heading to a Junior League near you, but Brady
is married to an intemationally-acclaimed supermodel. Brady edges Manning in just about
any statistical or shallow/superficial category. So while Manning may be in the form of his
life, I am still choosing Brady to win a one-off game for all the marbles.

Even using more conventional analyses, the Patriots still look like a safe bet to- win. Be-
sides Brady, the Pats have Rob Gronkowski and Aaron Hernandez, two of the best and most
athletic tight ends in the NFL. The NFL is about matchups, and these guys create matchup
problems for every team. The Pats also have Bill Belichiek, likely an evil genius, as their
coach. Their defense worries me, but they still have the force that is Vince Wilfork on the
defensive line. Brandon Spikes is playing better at linebacker despite his poor decisions on
Chat Roulette, and Devin McCourty headed up a secondary that contained the great Ravens
receiver Anquan Boldin in their last game. Throw a dash of these elements in with a big help-
ing of Brady mystique, and I think you’ll see why the New England Patriots will win Super
Bowl XLVI.

They suddenly have an unstoppable pass rush, playmaking
wide receivers, and a red-hot quarterback who has proven time
and time again that he has earned the mystical distinction of being called “elite.”

The New York Football Giants look like world—beaters now. And they could not be peak-
ing at a better time.

The G-Men match up exceptionally well with New England. Both teams are going to
throw the ball. It’s what they do. And even going against the immortal Tom Brady, I think
the Giants will be able to throw it better.

, Eli has better weapons at his disposal. With teams (ﬁnally) making concerted efforts to
slow down Victor Cruz, Hakeem Nicks has stepped up in a big way. Throw in Mario Man-
ningham as the third receiver and the speedy Ahmad Bradshaw out ofthe backﬁeld, and the
Giants have a passing attack to be reckoned with. Match them up against a New England
secondary that ranked second to last in terms of opponents passing yards and the Patriots
could be in for a long day. New England’s defense has had the beneﬁt of facing two quar-
terbacks so far in the playoffs, Tim Tebow and Joe Flacco, who aren’t anywhere near the
talent level of Manning. They could be in for a long day.

On the other side of the ball. it’s no secret that Tom Brady will throw and throw some
more. And as we saw in Super Bowl XLII, the Giants pass rush was all it took to knock
Brady offhis game.

Can’t you see this year’s Super Bowl play out exactly the same way as the last time
these two teams met in the Big Game? Can’t you see Osi Umenyiora and Justin Tuck harass
Brady into a few key turnovers? Can’t you see Eli engineering a late scoring drive to ce-
ment his status as the premier clutch quarterback in the league? Can’t you see Eli grab the
Super Bowl MVP award and yell “Peyton Who?!” into the mic?

The last one may be wishful thinking, but the fact of the matter is we have seen this
scenario play out before.

As Peter King pointed out, in 2007 the Giants beat an NFC South opponent in the wild
card round. They beat the number one seed in the divisional round. And then beat the num-
ber two seed in the conference title game when the opponent turned the ball over and set up
Lawrence Tynes for a game winning kick to send the G-Men to the Super Bowl against the
Pats. And we all know how that game turned out. '

This year? The Giants beat an NFC South team in round one, beat the number one seed
in round two, and beat the number two seed in round three when San Fran turned it over in
overtime. '

At this point it’s not even a prediction, it’s destiny. Giants 24-Patriots l7.

—.

H

     

  

offense (Green Bay) and defense (San Francisco). They’ve led '

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

ondeck

 

MON TUES WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
at
Wrestling W34-
11:00am
, vs vs vs.
Men S Vawes Randolph R-M
basketball 7:00pm 7;o({pm 2:00pm
' I at g VS. V5-
Women S Hollins ’ Roanoke Bridgewater
basketball 7;oopm 7:00pm 4:00pm
Men's , V5-
Limestone
lacrosse 11.-ooam
Riding at
Randolph
at
Track CNU
Invite

in the numbers
5353

The amount of time that it took Novak Djokovic to defeat
Rafael Nadal to win the Australian Open on Sunday. It was

Djokovic's third major title in a row.

16

The number of x-games medals that Shaun White has. 11 of

them are gold. He also has 2 Olympic gold medals.

.29

How many free—throws that Derrick Rose had made in the
fourth quarter this season until the game versus the Heat on
Sunday. He had been shooting 100% in the fourth quarter from

the line until that point.

21

Number of goals scored in the National Hockey League A||—Star

game. Marian Gaborik scored 3 of the goals in 6 shots on goal.

 

soapbox

  sports

“Obviously the ultimate goal is to win and
I didn’t win. I played well enough I thought
to win the golf tournament. Unfortunate/yl

just didn’t get it done.”
-1HerMoods,aﬂarbo¢ayIng3ofUIennal15hoIastoﬂnlsh
thlrdln theAbuDhabH-lsacchamplonshlp, ﬂomESPN.oom

1 "This is so surreal right now knowing that
I had a chance to win the game. And this

time it didn’t work out.”
-Derrldrkoeomtterhembsodthopotonﬂalanmo-M11:

_IumperwlUi3.7secondsIeﬂ.'ln thoﬂme. 1boBullsIo'etto
theHeat97-93.FromESPN.oom

 

 

 

elsétnackvamd ﬁe_l'
e lgggrers  

Myers, T allman, and Madison all place their names in the record books

By Eleanor Kennedy
N EWS E DITO R

Washington and Lee’s men’s and women‘s
track and ﬁeld teams ﬁnished strongly at Sat-
urday’s meet at Liberty University. The men
were led by record-setting performances by
sophomores Dillon Myers and Zander Tall-
man while sophomore Annelise Madison
broke a record on her way to the highest ﬁnish
for the women.

Myers set a school record in the two-day

heptathlon with 4,394 points. Myers earned
his victory with at 3.45 meter pole vault, a
2:46.44 l0O0m and a 9.06 60 meter hurdles.

Tallman’s school record came in the 200m.
Tallman ﬁnished fourth among Division III
athletes with a time of 22.77 seconds.

On the women’s side, Madison ﬁnished
ﬁrst among all competitors in the l0O0m with
a time of3:08.89. She beat the previous school

MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

record in the event by 4 seconds.

Sophomore Leigh Dannhauser also had a
strong day, clearing 1.53 meters on the high
jump and ﬁnishing second among Division III
competitors. V

Both teams are back in action Saturday at
the CNU Vince Brown Invitiational.

Women's hoops fall to VA Wesleyan 67-58

Free throws and turnovers hinder the Generals ’attempt catch the Marlins

By Christina Benedetti
STA F F W R I T E R

Virginia Wesleyan’s reserves contributed
26 points to the 67-58 win over the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s basketball team on
Tuesday night in Lexington.

The Marlin’s bench ran deep with 10 out
of 1 1 players adding points to the score board
and all players contributing signiﬁcant play-
ing time. The Marlins shot 18-19 from the
free throw line and outhustled the Washington
and Lee Generals by converting 21 points off
of the Generals’ 21 turnovers.

In the beginning of the game, the Marlins
and the Generals battled back and forth ﬁght-
ing for the lead. Atjust 9:41 into the half, the
two teams were tied 18-18. Virginia Wesleyan
went on a run putting the Marlins ahead 26-

21. Senior guard Meg Ingram responded with
a three—pointer pulling the Generals within
two points of the Marlins.

Sarah Seipp, a first year guard for the Mar-
lins, was fouled on a layup and took advan-
tage of the opportunity for a three-point play.
Senior guard Kari Ann Pfannestein added a
layup for the Generals, but the Marlins sank
two more from the foul line before the half
ended, giving Virginia Wesleyan a 31-26 lead
over W&L.

The Generals were able to close the score
to a two point game at 7:31 in the second half
off of a layup from junior forward Katy Wil-
son. However,’ the Marlins’ fast paced game
allowed them to keep the lead.

The Marlins outrebounded the Generals
38-35 and shot 94.7% (18-19) from the line
while the Generals had only 44.4% (4-9) suc-
cess from the line. Three members of the
Marlins lineup contributed points in the dou-
ble digits. »

Becca Bolton, a senior forward for the
Generals, netted 13 points, ﬁve assists, and 11
rebounds while Ingram led the Generals with
21 points. 1

The Generals return to action this Saturday
at 4:00 pm on the road as they face Emory &
Henry in an ODAC contest for their ﬁrst meet-
ing this season.

Men's b—bal| takeit in the second half

Strong performances by Whitaker, McLean, ana’ Ey leaa’ W&L over E&H

By Evelyn Norton
STA F F W R l T E R

Sometimes delivering a beating on a Satur-
day makes winning on the following Wednes-
day that much harder, especially when statis-
tics reason this one will be a shoe-in.

Last Wednesday night would be the 61st
time in history the Washington and Lee Gen-
erals would gently set the Emory and Henry
Wasps back into their cribs and say good
night. Lights out.

It would mirror the last ﬁve meetings ofthe
two programs—all ﬁve wins for the Generals.

Or would it‘?

As the seconds ticked away to half time
no one was sure, not sure enough to put any
money on it at least.

So far W&L’s defense was consistently
one step behind, allowing Emory and‘Henry
the extra second to get shots off. Fortunately
in the second half there was a new team, one
who relieved the crown from continuously

crying out, “whose man is that?”

Larry Whitaker came out to ﬁght, secur-
ing the ﬁrst basket in of the second half and
bringing the lead back to the Generals’ hands.
Whitaker went on to drive again at the 16:14
minute marker and brought the Generals up
to a seven-point lead, the largest of the night

-posted by either team.

Just over a minute later Emory and Henry
was forced to call a timeout while the Wash-
ington and Lee students took a dance break,
waving their arms to the YMCA.

Turns out the Generals did want it, and as
for the fans, well, who doesn’t want to dance?

Whitaker was not the only man grabbing
the crowd’s attention; Clay McLean was
fouled on the made basket and an elderly gen-
tleman behind the Generals’ bench exclaimed,
“McLean, you animal!” McLean went on to
lead the Generals in scoring with 15 points,

with Whitaker and JD. Ey closely behind
posting 14 and 13 points, respectively.

With less than ﬁve minutes to play in the
game, Malcolm Green delivered a foul that
sent Ey into the Wasps bench. The crowd
exploded, demanding an intentional foul that
they would never see called. Suddenly every-
one cared, all dancingjokes aside. This was an
occasion for yelling (unless you were the girl
in the white l0ng—sleeve shirt in love with your
phone—you know who you are). \

Goat noises emerged from an unknown
source amongst the students as the Wasps
tried to at least get a free throw in, but they
could not handle the barnyard any longer. The
Generals gallantly galloped away with a 67-46
win, outscoring the Wasps 33-1 1 in the second
half.

PHOTO COIURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

 

Q

