  

 

  #winning

The Jerz crew is coming to Lex?

V Threewords: A
  Gym.Tan. Laundry.

OPINIONS / page 2

MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2012

  wisiiimro~i_~n_

 

JEE umsm

 THE RING-TUM PHI.

ll.‘ IRE SIIIIEHTS AID FBI THE STUDENT! SIIIICE Ill? VOLUME CXV,NUMBiER16

SPEAK Day embraces Green Dot  

Kathekon works with the Green Dot strategy by encouraging students to speak up against sexual assault

By Happy Carlock
STAF F wn ITE R

As students walk between classes on
March 15, they will make the conscious
effort to speak to one another and ex-
change friendly smiles. Although these
are already daily occurrences on cam-
pus, the Speaking Tradition will be ac-
tively celebrated this Thursday as a part
of SPEAK Day.

Washington and Lee’s student alum-
ni organization, Kathekon, organized
SPEAK Day as a way to uphold Rob-
ert E. Lee’s ideals of civility and honor,
manifested in the Speaking Tradition.
Beau Dudley, Executive Director of
Alumni Affairs, has helped Kathekon
promote this event over the years.

“The Alumni Affairs Ofﬁce started
this tradition some years ago, and we’ve
been in a partnership with Kathekon
since it started about ten years ago,”
Dudley said. “One day a year we have
identiﬁed as SPEAK Day, and the Kath-
ekon members act as on-campus am-
bassadors for the Speaking Tradition.
Historically, they have given a sticker to
recognize anybody who simply speaks
that day on campus as part of that pro-
gram.”

This year, Kathekon decided to in-
volve the Green Dot Strategy in SPEAK
Day as a way to create awareness about
its cause and about sexual abuse. Dudley
originally came up with the idea of inte-
grating the two organizations.

“We got the idea in a conversation
that I had with Jen Sayre, the head of the
Green Dot Strategy, who deals with is-
sues of sexual violence and awareness,”
Dudley said. “I went to a presentation
that she put on about Green Dot, and she
went around the room and asked every-
one to think of one or two ways that they
could help embrace the program.”

Christina Lawrence ‘I2 and Thomas
Meric ’l2, Co-chairs of Kathekon have
been involved in organizing this event
and advertising the integration of Green
Dot.

“This year, we decided" to integrate
Green Dot into SPEAK Day as a way to
bring together old traditions with current
issues on campus,” Lawrence said. “We
thought Green Dot would be a good out-
let for this, and rather than just focusing
on speaking on campus, we have added
an element of ‘speaking up’ so that it ap-

plies to the Green Dot program.”

As on-campus leaders, Kathekon
members will show their support of the
Green Dot Strategy by actively encour-
aging students to speak up.

“One of the core principles of Green
Dot is simply to speak and not remain
silent when you see or hear something
that is headed in the wrong direction,”
Dudley said. “SPEAK Day is basically
going to be a subtle yet powerful way to
do two things at once: Number one, we
will absolutely continue with the Speak-
ing Tradition, but also, while we’re at it,
by having a sticker that says ‘SPEAK’
that is green and, quite literally, a green
dot, we will be promoting the Green Dot
program.”

Assistant Director for Alumni En-
gagement, Jen Utterback, sponsors
Kathekon and helped with the planning

' of SPEAK Day and its involvement of

Green Dot.

“I am so happy Kathekon has cho-
sen to show support for Green Dot on
SPEAK Day,” Jen said. “They are a
wonderful group of students.”

Along with the Kathekon members

Speaker connects mind

ByTommy Kent
smrr warren

John D. Dunne, an associate profes-
sor of religion from Emory University
and founder of the Center of Healthy
Minds at the University of Wisconsin-
Madison, came to Washington and Lee
to speak on the topic of “Contemplative
Science” last Thursday in Parrnly 307.
Contemplative Science, as explained
by Dunne, attempts to bring together a
scientiﬁc approach of study of the mind
with the ideas of Eastern religion, specif-
ically those concerning Buddhist medi-
tation.

“Understanding the nature of the
mind comes from many perspectives.
Those different perspectives give us
different roots into the mind and cogni-
tion,” said Dunne. Throughout the lee-
ture, Dunne elaborated on the Buddhist
concepts of mindfulness and reiﬁcation
in the context of scientiﬁc study. Ac-
cording to Dunne, mindfulness empha-
sizes paying attention in the moment in a
particular way while reiﬁcation refers to

' a presentation of conceptual content as

salient and real. V

Advanced Tibetan monks, some of
whom have meditated for 30,000 hours
in their lifetime, self-induce high-am-
plitude synchronized gamma waves in
their left pre-frontal cortex when they
meditate. Dunne said that when the sci-
entists who were testing the monks saw
the data, “they literally almost fell out of
their chairs, the signal seemed so high.”

Dunne, who emphasized that he is
not a scientist but a member of an inter-
disciplinary team, said there is currently
a lack of an operationalized method to
study contemplative science while there
is also a lack of understanding of medita-

tion in general. “Clearly it has generated
a lot of excitement, but there is a little bit
of the emperor without its clothes, a bril-
liant vessel that is hollow on the inside.
The problem is we have no idea what it
means,” said Dunne.

The method that Dunne advocates
is that of neurophenomenology. This
method would align ﬁrst-person reports,
highly reﬁned phenomenological data
gathered from the meditators themselves,
with third—person analysis of data, scien-
tiﬁc tracking of gamma signals through
electroencephalography. When these
studies have been performed, a high
correlation of .69 is shown between the
verbal reports of the meditator with the
gamma wave data.

In the lecture, Dunne said he wants
to represent all of the different styles of
mindfulness which “has no univocality
in religion.” The primary dimensions
of mindﬁilness include object selec-
tion, meta-awareness, which refers to a
simultaneous awareness of the cognitive
background and the sensory foreground,
and reiﬁcation. The secondary dimen-
sions include effect, aperture, and clar-
ity/intensity.

According to Dunne, the study of
mindfulness and meditation can be ap-
plied in varied ways to improve the
health of minds. Mindfulness can be
applied to human perception, interpreta-
tion, intention, and action, with the effect
of reversing our own distortions on real-
ity. For example, a clinically depressed
person may view another person’s look
as an affront. In actuality, this view is a
faulty interpretation of experience. Us-
ing mindfulness, our own interpretations

can become more accurate, our actions
will cease to be dysfunctional, and our
minds will become healthier,

Dunne mentioned how color itself is
a product of our own perception. Dunne
said, “Color is not a thing in the world, it
is a phenomenon, an entity that occurs in
experience. Stuff is not blue; it is pho-
tons of a certain wavelength that causes
us to see blue.”

Through sensory experience, we con-
vert the non—conceptual into conceptual
schemes in our mind, ﬁtting things into
general “universals”. Dunne said the
capacity to use concepts is even pres-
ent in pigeons, demonstrating that such
concepts are not high-level. Using the
act of exclusion, we differentiate the
non—conceptual in the construction of
concepts, recognizing sameness. Dunne
also mentioned two additional features
of this process: the idea of approach
and avoidance as the framework for all
concept formation, and the identiﬁcation
or fusing of the image with the object is
supposed to represent, referred to as im-
putation or “making one”.

Dunne said, “Conceptual cognitions
need to seem real to us.” Dunne said
our ability to “skipthrough the repre-
sentation to the object itself” could be
evolutionarily beneﬁcial as it enables us
to quickly make inferences on the sense
data around us. If the philosopher mouse
paused to consider the misinterpretation
of the lion’s roar as being the lion itself,
he would already have been eaten. It is
only because the mouse can recognize
a roaring sound as a representation of a
lion, that the mouse can be saved.

Dunne said, “Our capacity for rep-

and Alumni Affairs directors, many
alumni have also inﬂuenced the celebra-
tion of SPEAK Day because of their
dedication to the Speaking Tradition that
has extended past their days at W&L.

“They are the ones asking us, once
they graduate, ‘How is the Speaking Tra-
dition? I’ve heard it’s dying. What do you
think?’” Dudley said. “They care a great
deal about it, and that’s one reason why
we’re so happy to promote a program
like SPEAK Day because, although it is
cultural and it’s been around for a long
time, with the advent of cell phones and
people being busy and marching from
class to class, we think it is smart to do a
few things to raise the proﬁle and remind
people that we speak to each other here.”

On Thursday, students can get in-
volved simply by acknowledging one
another on campus, while Kathekon
members will hand out green stickers
that say, “I Spoke.”

“SPEAK Day does not require much
from students but for them to continue
to spread the Speaking Tradition and be
honorable members of the community
by speaking up when they ﬁnd it neces-

sary,” Lawrence said.

SPEAK Day also coincides with the
Kathekon application process, which is
taking place from now until March 23.

“We would certainly be glad to get
applications from any rising juniors or
seniors who think they want to take a
more active role in SPEAK Day and oth-
erwise,” Beau said.

Above all else, SPEAK Day is essen-
tially a reminder of respect that serves as
a founding ideal of Washington and Lee
and is constantly upheld bye the com-
munity. _

“I’m anxious to tell you more from
the heart that the best description I have
heard of the Speaking Tradition came
from a senior professor not long ago,
and he described it as the ﬁrst step on
the road towards respect,” Dudley said.
“No matter who you are, what you look
like, where you came from, how old you
are, or anything else, if we are being civil
and speaking to each other, we’ve taken
the ﬁrst step towards a welcoming place.
That rings true with all of our alumni,
and I hope with today’s students.”

and meditation

resenting the world conceptually has
developed so much that we can project
ourselves far and beyond.” We pay at-
tention to anomalies in our environment
by attaching salience, produced in terms
of approach and avoidance.

An experiment directing individu-
als to push a button to send away im-
ages of delicious food framed in red and
to push a button to bring closer images
of delicious food framed in green was
performed. At ﬁrst, the difference in
reaction time was great, as the partici-
pants hesitated to send away the image
and quickly reacted to bring the image
closer. Dunne said that this difference
was drastically reduced when the par-
ticipants were simply told to “remember
that what you are seeing are pictures and
not food,” demonstrating how they had
set-aside their “effectively charged sa-
lience”.

Dunne mentioned how eliminating
this attached salience could help to make
minds healthier. The process of de-rei-
ﬁcation, the capacity to drop one line of
thought in favor of another and remove
the salience, “is an innate human capac-
ity that can be trained further.” Dunne
said that the approach/avoidance frame-
work could be reconﬁgured through
compassion. Dunne asked the question:
“Can the ‘story’ be retold?” '

When the discussion opened up to
questions form the audience, Dunne
was asked by visiting philosopher Andy
Clark whether or not “we are dealing
with two levels of experience.” Clark
asked, “Would you story change dramat-
ically if that two level was available?”

Dunne mentioned other practices tar-

geting reversal of the distortion of per-
ception. Dunne said the processing of
the philosopher mouse locating himself
in spatial/temporal terms is a false claim
and thus distortion. Dunne said that
stories about the self, the future and the
sense of agency are illusions and he then
began to discuss mind-wandering and
the moment of de-realization upon snap-
ping out of a daydream. Dunne added
that mediation could be furthered to the
extent that practices could be designed to
enable one to see through the illusion of
subjectivity.

Dunne’s responses to questioning
got to such a point that he said, “I can
see I’m losing you. I’m losing myself
already.”

More of an explanation into the role
and origin of contemplative science can
be seen by the work of Dr. Francisco
Varela, a prominent Chilean neuroscien-
tist, who, according to mindandlife.org
helped to create “the unique form of in-
depth dialogue between Buddhism and
science that has grown into the Mind &
Life Institute.” The Dalai Lama and also
Dunne have attended the Mind and Life
Institute biennial conferences, which ex-
plore various questions concerning the
mind and new areas of research.

Dunne is currently working with oth-
ers to prepare an article on the neurosci-
ence °of mindfulness, which will attempt
to elaborate on the neurophenomenolog-
ical approach. Dunne said, “Part of the
reason we are trying to write the article is
to settle on one term. Is there an experi-
mental program?”

Peer tutors offer aid in writing centers

By Drew Carlos
STAFF warren

Help in writing is readily available to
Washington and Lee students. '

The Writing Center, located in Ley-
bum, gives students the ability to talk
with a student tutor about their papers.

The center does not edit work. In-
stead it helps students to, as the Center
website states, “recognize and correct
their own errors.”

Professor Kary Smout said that the
main goal is to “help the students gain
conﬁdence, write better papers, and get
higher grades.”

Students can either sign up to work
with a tutor on the website or simply
show up.

The tutors, two or three per night, are
junior and senior writers from a wide
variety of majors that “love to help [stu-
dents] succeed,” Smout said.

Even though the Center currently
stays busy, according to Smout, he
would love to see more students utilizing
it. “We have an amazing satisfaction rate
among students who have come,” Smout
said.

The Williams School Communica-
tion Center is another place where stu-
dents can ﬁnd the help they need.

“I like the Williams School Commu-
nication Center because every time I go
my writing improves,” said sophomore
Victoria Bell. “In each session, we re-
view the structure of my paper and talk
about ways to make it better.”

Bell also pointed out that this center
is a great place to utilize if a student is
struggling in a class.

However, WSCC is only available for

students working for a Williams School
course, whereas the Writing Center is
available to all students.

WSCC, as stated on the frequently
asked questions section of their website,
is helpﬁil because, “The consultants can
help you to say what you have to say as
well as you can, show you strategies for
better revising and self-editing, and re-
fer you to appropriate sources for help
on matters that aren’t solved during the
appointment.”

Bell said that the best part of the ses-

sion for her is reading the paper “aloud
with the staff.”
Like the Writing Center, WSCC will

‘not proofread papers.

“It’s deﬁnitely an on-campus aca-
demic asset...that more people should
know about and use!” said Bell.

The Writing Center is open Sunday
through Thursday nights from 8 to 10.

The Williams School Communica-
tion Center is open Monday, Tuesday
and Thursday nights from 6-10 in Hunt-
ley Hall 118.

,.»-

\

 

uuivsnsmr LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & us: umvsnsmr
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

%lIARl

n

run
‘T’ (UTE

opinions

 

MONDAY, MARCH 12‘, 2012

 

 

The best Sunda stress relief  

Feeling stressed, incapable, frustrated? Katie D ’Innocenzo ows one person who will always make you feel better

You wake
up and swear
the Sahara
desert has re-
located into
your mouth.
Your head has
an odd rhyth-
mic drum-
ming and
your mud-
caked cow-
boy boots are
still on your
feet as you
swing out of
bed. Ok, now the drumming has turned
to pounding as you attempt to stand. But
you can’t think about ﬁnding Advil, you
need water. Now. As the desert in your
mouth becomes impossibly drier, you

 

By Katie D’lnnocenzo
co L u M N I sr

Hydrocarbon security in Asia

ﬁnally ﬁnd a cup of water and choke
it down like you’ve been deprived for
years. Eventually you make your way to
the medicine cabinet and take some Ad-
vil, brush your teeth and wash your face
(the last two are optional depending on
how hungover you actually are). After
meeting up with some friends for brunch
(preferably in D-hall of course, since
you can get breakfast and lunch out of
the way in one sitting), you think about
starting that pile of homework you’ve
been cleverly avoiding all weekend with
some “therapeutic” day parties. But you
just don’t wanna. This is about the time
you would convince your friend to watch
a movie/drive to Roanoke/do anything
with you so you don’t have to start that
problem set, but she’s already halfway
through it.
Bitch. .

What you need is a stress-relieving,
motivational and semi-long distraction.
You need to call your mom. Trust me-

you can tell anything ~ so take advan-
tage. You can bitch about how your pro-
fessors don’t understand the importance

Your mom is the one person to whom you can tell

anything-- so take advantage.

I know, you normally only call home if
you need money (No seriously, mom, I
NEED to get this movie from the 5-dol-
lar binl), but your mom is the best person
to talk to on a stressful Sunday aftemoon.
Especially on those lucky Lexington
Sundays when the weather is perfectly
balmy, calling your mom can be a great
excuse to spend some time in the sun.
My suggestion? Grab your laptop and
ﬁnd a sunny patch of grass and Skype.

Your mom is the one person to whom ,

of a quality social life, how ﬁnding a date
for formal is too hard and you don’t want
to try, and how the workload at W&L is
quite literally endless. Besides basking
in sun, which in itself is a pick-me-up,
your mom can probably make you feel
much better about all the stuff going on
right now. She’ll remind you that you’re
a smart, capable student and that while
your looming biology test may feel im-
possible, you can study and do well.
She’ll also remind you that no matter

Columnist Yates Wilburn describes a conﬂict of economics, politics, and interests

The rapid
economic
growth ex-

perienced by
the economies
of East Asia
(particularly

China, South
Korea, and Ja-
pan) has cre-
ated a need for
energy that is
greater than
ever before. In
a region where
uncontested

hydrocarbons are more difficult to come
by than in most, these three economic
powerhouses must search abroad and in
diplomatically gray areas close to home
(most notably the South China Sea) to
compete for hydrocarbon resources us-
ing whatever means at their disposal. The

By Yates Wilburn
co LU M N I sr

resulting dynamic has created a poten-
tially dangerous political and economic
situation as the governments of these
nations look to hostile and/or less-than-
reputable sources for the energy they so
desperately need, placing their various
economic and diplomatic interests (most
notably those with the US and Europe) at
odds with their energy interests.

All three nations have placed a large
amount of their hopes and faith regard-
ing energy in questionable players and
regions (again, the South China Sea) in
the international arena, with Japan im-
porting 9% of its oil from Iran, and South
Korea importing 7% from the same, as
well as a signiﬁcant amount from Ven-
ezuela, both regular international an-
tagonists.

China, steadily moving to pass the
United States as the world’s lead im-
porter of oil and natural gas since 1993,
has taken the greatest risk in the com-

MANAGING EDITORS

NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

Wanumluolnunusrn

THE RING-‘-'I‘UM PHI.

JULIANNA SATTERLY
DIANDRA SPICAK
NEIL HAGGERTY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
LEIGH DANNHOUSER

JP BEALL

HAPPY CARLOCK
DREW CARLOS
KATIE D’INNOCENZO
HAILEY HARTLEY

pany it keeps. With more than a third
of its oil imports coming from countries
like Angola, Sudan, Iran, Venezuela, and
Kazakhstan (governments whose actions
toward its people and the international
community and/or stability regularly
places them at odds with the intema-
tional political and economic system),
China’s energy strategy places it’s en-
ergy interests ﬁrmly at odds with various
international human rights and security
efforts, not least of which is the preven-
tion of Iran from acquiring a nuclear
weapon. This is a huge risk for political,
economic, or even (in the most pessimis-
tic and extreme scenarios) military con-
ﬂict as China attempts to protect these
regular enemies of international peace
and stability in an understandable effort
to ensure energy security.

These countries are engaged in their
own unique balancing acts. On one end,
the Asian governments’ attempt to avoid

So with all ofthis
hype circling Snoo-
ki and her unborn

pounders away from all of the same girls who
could be found at Aruba Tan who are now all greased up and ready to go, putting on ev-

future political/economic risk and to sat-
isfy the diplomatic needs of the United
States and Europe (the key to their eco-

who you ask to formal, they’ll want to go
because you are just SO pretty and awe-
some (Ok, she kind of has to say that,
but it’s still nice to hearl), that you are
in fact not a total loser for falling every
5 minutes in geology lab (no one even
noticed, I’m sure!), and that no matter
how stressed you are about whatever is
going on, you can ﬁgure it out and ﬁnd a
few hours to watch that movie with your
friend.

After she gives you a much-needed
pep talk, you will feel ready to tackle that
calculus, ﬁnd a formal date, and even
throw in a load of laundry. Being outside
will also help your mood, and before you
know it you’ll be done with your work
and laughing uncontrollably at Will Fer-
rell in “Anchorman” before heading to
bed at (wait for it) a reasonable hour (i.e.,
midnight).

oil and gas, regardless of their moral and
political cost. Until the Asian economies
protect themselves with less risky energy

The resulting dynamic has created a potentially danger-

ous political and economic situation as their govern-

ments look to hostile and/or less-than—reputable sources

for energy

nomic success the Chinese govemment’s
“most important economic and political
relations”) by diversifying their energy
portfolios away from countries they ﬁnd
undesirable (US and EU), most recently
Iran (in favor of more stable, though
not necessarily morally superior, pro-
Western sources). On the other, they are
forced to take advantage of any and all
opportunities to develop new sources of

portfolios, these conﬂicting dynamics
have the potential to end poorly (given
Japan’s past record for breaking away
from US diplomatic strategies) for the
US and EU when the Asian governments
are forced to choose between diplomacy
and economic survival.

Snooki comes to Lex

What happens when the Jersey Shore gang visits Lex Vegas?

are ready to hit the town. Naturally, they get

little meatball/Juice-
head Gorilla, we
ﬁgured we would
write about one of
the ﬁnest cultural
institutions of our
time — Jersey Shore.
So we’ve seen them

country club?
 

Snooki wants to know two things: what the hell is a Barbour
and why is everyone dressed like they are old people going to a

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

TOMMY KENT
STEPHEN PECK
ANDREW RENALDO
BRIDGET ROONEY
ALLIE WEISS
YATES WILBURN
BELLA ZUROSKI

COY FERRELL

MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community"for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@w|u.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

work their magic
in Seaside, Miami,
and even Italy, but

 

Bella lzumslii and

there’s one metrop-
Bﬁdget R°‘°'”eY olis they haven’t
C D L U II III 5 TS

visited yet — Lexing-
ton, Virginia. What
would happen if the crew came to Rockbridge
County? One can only imagine...

It’s pretty obvious where they’d stop ﬁrst~
Aruba Tan. One of the highest class beauty
institutions in Rockbridge County, it’s hard to
imagine them skipping out on this hot spot. If
they can manage to sneak an appointment in
between the herds of girls running there be-
fore Fancy Dress and Spring Break, a quick
encounter with the tropical rays of Aruba in
the city limits of Lex will ensure they get that
perfect golden glow for their visit.

Next, the juiceheads will need to get swole
at the nearest gym — Doremus. Hopefully
Coach Schall will have his heaviest weights
ready for Ronnie, and can steal some ﬁve

“toning” their arms in preparation for FD
(gotta look good in that strapless dress!) for
the Situation, Vinnie, and Pauly-D (and now
that we think about it, maybe J-Woww too).
If we’re lucky, we may even be able to catch a
glimpse of Snooki on the stair stepper! We’ll
be able to ﬁnd Sami whining in the co-op.

They’ve already hit two out of the three
components of GTL, and they need to look
fresh for their night out, so they head to the
laundry rooms around campus. Everything’s
going smoothly until they come to the awful
realization that absolutely none of the dryers
work - a problem they’ve never encountered
in Seaside! Ronnie has to be restrained by se-
curity guards, Larry and Mrs. Datz, due to his
immense rage.

After all of that hard work, the gang is
bound to be hungry. At this point, the big
question is Frank’s or Salemo’s? After realiz-
ing the undeniable superiority of the calzones
at Frank’s, the choice is clear. Mangia!

Night falls, and the kids from the Shore

ery piece of Ed Hardy clothing within a ten-
mile radius. Vinnie goes to armounce that the
“cabs are heahhh,” but is confused when a
white mini bus pulls up instead. As they go to
get on Traveller, they notice they are receiving
a hefty amount of judgmental looks. Snooki
wants to know two things: what the hell is
a Barbour and why is everyone dressed like
they are old people going to a country club?
Alter a full night out, our esteemed guests
are ready to call it a night. This is where they
start encountering some problems. Deena is
having some trouble keeping her balance (as
usual), and the LexPo aren’t having it. How-
ever, after a beautiful, intelligent, and elo-
quent display of reasoning by Snooks and J-
Woww, they decide to cut their girl D a break.
The next morning, the cast stops at Niko’s
for some breakfast and swings by the Cabins
to pick up Snooki’s underwear before heading
out of town. They had fun, but they’re glad to
be headed out of the land of pearls, Barbours
and blazers and back to the Dirty Jerz. '

LEXINGTON LIMOUSINE 6. TRANSPORTATION LLC

www.IexingronIimo.net

(SIIO) lI6|-IIl7

IexingIonIimo@gaIIoo.com

(SIIO) 464-LIMO

SERUING ALL AIRPORT, AMTRACK C. BUS LOCATIONS

WE ARE THE ONLY LOCALL‘l OWNED (.1 LEGALLY OPERATED
I TRANSPORTATION BUSINESS IN THE AREA

Licensed

|IISlIl'E(| BDINIEU

DMlI#g829

  

 

  

 

MONDAY, MARCH l2, 2012

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

pinions

Hank: the purr-feet candidate‘?   e

The Virginia

- race for the U.S.
Senate is on,
with one of the
youngest can-
didates in his-
, tory running for
V  election. This
‘ _ candidate is nine
V“ years old, an in-
dependent, and
a ﬁrm proponent

  
   

i‘ I _ W of the belief that
By Amewdss dreams should
COLUMN!“ not be limited

by age, appear-
ance. . .or species.
Hank is a cat from Fairfax, Virginia.

He is running against Tim Kaine (D, hu-
man) and George Allen (R, human). His
platform is focused on job creation, be-
cause Hank knows what it is like to be

ter; however, with no prospect of being
saved, they faced every day with the fear
that they would be killed. Fortunately,
Animal Allies, a volunteer rescue group,

Finally, the ad asks, does Virginia really want an-

other fat cat in politics?

homeless in America. Before he clawed
his way into the gritty world of politics,
Hank was a kitten of a broken home.
According to his Facebook page, Hank
was born to a single mother, and lived
his earliest days on the harsh streets of
Virginia. It wasn’t long before he and his
family were brought to an animal shel-

saved Hank, and he was eventually ad-
opted by a loving family.

His campaign has made Hank a You-
Tube sensation. His 35-second ad centers
on the American dream of unlimited op-
portunities and family values. Recently,
though, his good name has been dragged
through the mud by catty opponents.

A smear campaign has been launched,
claiming that Hank has never released
his birth certiﬁcate or his tax returns, and
has furthermore never responded to the
claim that he is a long—time user of cat-
nip. Hank has claimed that he’s gone to
the vet, but, as this ad points out, there is
no record of his services in any military
branch. Finally, the ad asks, does Virgin-
ia really want another fat cat in politics?

To add to his troubles, it appears that
Hank cannot serve in Congress, as there
are blatantly speciesist regulations which
prevent animals from being elected. But
there is hope for Hank yet, as America
has been making progress in recent years
towards eliminating its prejudice against
pets. In a small Kentucky town called

Who is Tim Kaine and George Allen s_ furry competitor in the Virginia Senate race? ColumnistAllie Weiss tells all

Rabbit Hash, Lucy Lou serves as mayor.
Lucy Lou is a border collie who is vehe-
mently opposed to the small-mindedness
that keeps animals out of office and out
of stores. Her first step towards making
a change has been to lift the ban against
animals in the General Store. With such
an inspiration leaving her paw print in
history, animals like Hank can now as-
pire to bigger things than the shiny coats
and youthful energy that superﬁcial ad-
vertisements have limited them to in the
past. These days, it seems like feline lib-
eration is in the air. ‘'

Evaluatin the tax system

Columnist JP Beall reviews the Unite

There is
no point more
sorely abused
in x politics
than taxes. I
can hear the
readers now,
moaning and
asking them-
selves why in
the name of all
that’s good and
holy would I
decide to bore
Washington
and Lee with
what some consider to be a ﬂat topic.
Not to worry, reader on the Right, certain
incumbents’ ideas will still get ripped to
shreds, and to the reader on the Left,
there will still be a discussion of what can
be considered a social issue tied to rights
that all humans are born with naturally.
To the Occupiers out there, go directly to
jail, do not pass the Social Security Of-
ﬁce and do not collect $200. Truthfully
though, it is, or should be, pretty hard
not to have an opinion about an issue so
closely tied to the concept of liberty in
this country. Liberty, now there’s a word
American government has forgotten! By
the end of this article, I hope all of you
will ﬁnd yourselves questioning what it
means to be an American, and what the

 

ByJP Beall
COLUMNIST

concept of taxes mean to you.

Over the past one hundred years, the
idea of taxes has been attached to a sick-
ening amount of qualities, not among the

we see very little of that money come
back to us in the form of relevant servic-
es. The fact is that what once was a sim-
ple acknowledgement that nothing, even

I ’d like to know what [Obama] thinks is his fair

share, because it seems the “change” he promised .

has not left his wallet yet.

least being that it can be used as a tool
for some high-minded moralistic pur-
pose and as a regulation. At base though,
a tax as the founders long ago and many
Americans still today understand it is
as the basic responsibility that every
American has to keep the government
that secures our freedoms and provides
us with safety operating smoothly. As
W&L alum and 1924 Presidential candi-
date John W. Davis said, “Taxation can
justly be levied for no purpose other than
to provide revenue for the support of the
government. To tax one person, class or
section to provide revenue for the ben-
eﬁt of another is none the less robbery
because done under the form of law and
called taxation.” Status check folks, for
all the money we spend in taxes, the gov-
ernment can barely stay solvent much
less concentrate on protecting our liber-
ties. For all the money we spend in taxes,

our liberties and government, is free has
now become a legally sanctioned form
of redistributive theft, and all that began
with the Constitutional Amendment for
income tax. '

From that point on, it seems that the
public sector needed no justiﬁcation to
take money from its citizens. That is a
pretty dangerous notion anywhere, in a
person or a government.

To be fair, we can all acknowledge
that there are those among us in this
country that are in need, but in systems of
redistribution, alleviating ﬁnancial need
in one place only creates need someplace
else in a land where all are supposed to
be equal before the law. Indeed, it is a
system that forces dependence little by
little in a land where independence was
once valued. It is a system that can so
vastly distort someone’s work schedule
to remain in a favorable bracket in a land

where “Protestant work ethic” is some-
thing everyone shared in regardless of
religion. Here I can hear the reader on
the Left cry out in shock, terror, and in-
dignation, that no one should be trying to
dodge taxes, that we should all be pay-
ing our oft—cited “fair share.” But my re-
sponse is simple. Where does anyone get
off deciding what exactly someone’s fair
share is? Queen Elizabeth I remarked
that it is unﬁtting and impossible to cut
windows into men’s souls. Is it any dif-
ferent to cut into men’s pocketbooks? To
quote Abraham Lincoln in a way he usu-
ally isn’t, “You cannot help the poor by
destroying the rich. You cannot strength-
en the weak by weakening the strong.

You cannot brifig about prosperity by

discouraging thrift. You cannot lift the
wage earner up by pulling the wage pay-
er down. You cannot further the broth-
erhood of man by inciting class hatred.
You cannot build character and courage
by taking people’s initiative and inde-
pendence. You cannot help people per-
manently by doing for them, what they
could and should do for themselves.”
Ultimately the construction of the
income tax system is flawed, and it is
completely impossible to ﬁx. It is based
on a completely un—American premise
that has altered the mindset of American
individuals. Come April 15, the free citi-
zens of this country become the hunted,

tates tax system and encourages classmates to do the same

frantically scurrying to ﬁnish the paper-
work and smearing lamb’s blood on the
doorpost before the IRS Angel of Death
spirits away their ﬁrst-bom in the night.
Rule by fear is not the American way;
it’s what built Lenin’s unholy kingdom
brick by brick. The Left can justify itas
a good cause all they want, but this has to
be the only charity I know of that accom-
plishes its goals with threats, because the
ones that do go out of business. be-
fore Obama will ever convince me other-
wise, he’s going to have to lose his hard
earned distinction as the President who
hosts $35,000 per plate fundraising din-
ners while Rome bums. He has hosted
I91 fundraisers already, more than any
other President. Personally I’d like to
know what he thinks is his fair share, be-
cause it seems the “change” he promised
has not left his wallet yet.

The stakes are high on this issue and
on several others, and the important
thing is that regardless of party, we are
involved in discourse. Think about what
America means to you, and honestly ‘ask
yourself if that idea is being acted out.
Even more important, we must vote. If
you don’t, than you have no one to blame
but yourself.

Job Opening

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

The Washington and Lee Office of Undergraduate Admissions
announces an opening for Admissions Counselor.
include managing a recruitment territory and travel schedule,
conducting group information sessions and interviews, and evaluating
admission applications. Other duties will be assigned based on the
selected candidate’s background and skills.
work is expected during the academic year, especially during peak

application reading and travel seasons.

A Bachelor’s degree, a valid driver’s license, and the willingness
to commit to the position for a minimum of two years are required.
Strong communication skills and demonstrated organizational abilities
are expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and able to
work as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet will be capable
of creative self-direction. Preference will be given to W&L graduates
and to candidates with proven writing skills and social media savvy.

Interested candidates should apply for the position through
W&L’s Human Resources website (http://go.wlu.edu/jobs) no later
than Sunday, March 25, 2012. A W&L Employment Application, a
cover letter, résumé, and the names and contact information of three

references are required. EOE.

Responsibilities

Evening and weekend

Premium lotul burgers, fresh doughnuts,
fries, Homestead Creamery mill: shakes,
daily soups and slews...on|y the good stuff.

"Pure Euls is

lexinglon’s newest

slice of heaven."

mnuasm -ll» llfasbingtmfast (Imam:
«mun

lucehouluzom/Pureinlsium

luamuupiiuulmu-1

unique: hurl

 

Career Services
Upcoming Programs

Explore four Career Option: Though
Informal Conversations with Professional;

Tuesday, March 20 a
Alana DeJoseph ‘92

Con versarrians with En virvnmenralirr and
Film Producer

Wednesday. March 21
Shane Wilson ‘O8

fummer Opportunities in Latin America

Tuesday. March 27

Julia Burclajewicz
Con versan-‘on: with a Painting: Conservator

Monday. April 2
Davis Franklin ‘ll
fucceeding as a Classroom Teacher

Call or come by to register for
Individual Appointment or Lunch

Careerservices

 

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH 12,2012

inions

 

  Words from the wise

Opinions Editor Campbell Burr asks seniors to reﬂect on their four years at W&L and oﬂer underclassmen advice

 

The seniors
‘V are less than 100
‘i '. days from grad-
uation, moments
away from kiss-
ing goodbye the
best four years
oftheir life.

The real
world is dif-

ferent from Lexington. One-bedroom
apartments will replace country houses,
cubicles will replace Carrels, and Star-
bucks will replace LexCo. Regardless
of how hungover you feel, spandex and
an oversized-tee will not be acceptable
work attire. If you leave your apart-
ment door unlocked, you are one word:
screwed. When you go to parties, don’t
expect 90% of the attendees to be excel-

     
 

By Campbell Burr

OPINIONS ElZllTDll

Favorite class: Field Botany
Favorite mixer theme: Rep Your
Hometown (Nu Joisey!)

One thing every student must
do before graduation: Tube the
Maury River

One thing you would change
about W&L: LexPo- Upwards of 40
citations during 0-Week is out of
hand!

If you could redo your time
at W&L, what would you do
differently? Uppercut a punkass
[Editor’s translation: get in a ﬁght]

Favorite class: Philosophy of time
travel (Spring ‘10)

Favorite mixer theme: 205 Speak
Easy

One thing every student must
do before graduation: Streak the
Colonnade!

One thing you would change
about W&L: I would make the EC
gender ratio the same as on campus
If you could redo your time
at W&L, what would you do
differently? Been honest with
myself and majored in theater from
the start. I would have had time for
so many other interesting classes!

Favorite class: Brain & Behavior
Favorite mixer theme: Caveman
One thing every student must
do before graduation: Streak
the Colonnade

One thing you would change
about W&L: We need Five Guys,
Chipotle and Chick—ﬁl-A

If you could redo your time
at W&L, what would you do
differently? Drop the books and
go out more

 

 012 5

www.alvindcr1nis.com
I-1-ll£llll¢:5~[L| i:tIl_LLn1u:sl

lent swing-dancers (unless these parties
are W&L weddings, of course), or the
majority of 20-somethings to be conser-
vative. After a fun night out, don’t make
the mistake of boarding a public bus and
requesting that the driver play a song, or
stop in the middle ofthe highway so that
you can get off in front of your house.
Bummer. Public transportation is not
nearly as cool as Traveller.

Patrick Smith Matt Gosse

I lllllillll ll .il’llJl:lill

.
'51 1‘-lll'\(.lH"~ \'\l'tIll |. "slltll-l‘~nll'i

l-is. piitwlu .m Elm Ll mi"--. lll|nl!«'

Dirt - ﬁertrtia, glut-

WINNER OF THE
TOREFRONT DECORATING
COMPETITION

FINE MEN'S AND LADIES" APPAREL
TUXEDO RENTALS 3: SALES
STUDENT CHAF-EGE INC-COUN’liS
CARRY FEARROUF? l INF K: Ml")F?F

540.463.5383

 

Do-vwon ~.........,  _. _. . .

When you enter the real world, you
will be surrounded by muggles, who do
not understand the magical worlds of
Graham-Lees and Windfall. So when
your obnoxious coworker (the one
with retainers and acne) asks you—for
the ﬁfth time— to describe your favor-
ite class at “William and Mary,” take a
deep breath and remind yourself that he
couldn’t have gotten in ifhe had applied.

Take a look at seniors’ reflections of
their time at W&L. We love the senior
class and will miss them. They better re-
turn to Lex over Alumni Weekend!

102 W. Washington St.

'Itu'l1'ti ‘Innis!

   

Favorite class: Latin Dance
Technique

Favorite mixer theme: Chalupas
and Cholos

One thing every student must
do before graduation: Eat at
Taco Bell

One thing you would change
about W&L: Taco Bell on campus
If you could redo your time
at W&L, what would you do
differently? Have eaten more
Taco Bell

Favorite class: Lincoln Seminar,
Orthodoxy & Heresy, Pov. 101
Favorite mixer theme: 905
One thing every student must
do before graduation: Go
hiking somewhere besides House
Mountain

One thing you would change
about W&L: Make cross—country
travel easier— a private airport

If you could redo your time
at W&L, what would you do
differently? I wouldn’t have
double majored

Favorite class: Hist 397: The
Freedom Ride

Favorite mixer theme: Rep Your
City

One thing every student must
do before graduation: Get a
strike and/or go to Das Klub
One thing you would change
about WSIL: Outlaw bowties and
pastel colored clothing

If you could redo your time
at W&L, what would you do
differently? Do less homework

  
  

 

 
  

    

 
   
 
      
    
     
  

  

 

  

 
 

MONDAY, MARCH_12, 2012

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

arts&|ife

Scholarship ﬁnalists ﬂood W&L

Candidates for the Johnson scholarship con/zpete for a full-ride

By Cynthia Lam
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Snowmen and sunshine were just a
few of the many pleasant surprises of the
annual Johnson Scholarship Competi-
tion, which brought I62 students from
all over the country and around the world
to campus from Sunday through Tues-
day. During these jam—packed days, the
ﬁnalists led busy schedules ﬁlled with
interviews, classes‘, open house sessions
and receptions.

According to WLU Admissions, the
finalists were chosen from a pool of
nearly 2650 applications in a highly se-
lective review process. Many boasted
4.0 GPAs and top SAT scores, in addi-
tion to impressive resumes and extracur-
ricular activities. The group of ﬁnalists
were comprised of class valedictorians,
all-star athletes, student body presidents,
award-winning musicians, published au-

thors and talented researchers.

Over the course of their visit, the
students had interviews with faculty
members, current Johnson Scholars and
admissions officers to compete for the
generous full-ride merit scholarship. At
the same time, they were given the op-
portunity to experience dorm life, attend
classes, talk to professors and meet cur-
rent students. Each ﬁnalist was paired
with a ﬁrst-year or sophomore host, who
facilitated the stay by offering a ﬁrst-
hand glimpse of W&L.

Said ﬁrst-year Lisa Stoiser: “I signed
up to host a Johnson for two reasons:
number one, my ﬁrst W&L experience
was hosted by... the perfect host: hos-
pitable, helpful, not-too-motherly. [She]
let me learn what W&L meant ﬁrst-hand;
I wanted to offer that same kind of ex-

wI.un VlllI'l'EII no I 2 OPEII AIH
wAv£s VIIIIIIEHS

GIIAIID PRIZE

'l'anner llewsy

. . ,

Ist Place,-_'lanner llewsy
:   Honorable; Mention - 'l'he
Vlashinstones

, SOLO MIISIG
I st Place - Scotty Groth ‘I 3 '
  I  :2 ntIfPlace**:-itSara-lane Mclbonaltl
3r¢lPlace (tie)- Lucille l.ancry
3rd Place (tie) - Richard I

I   Marmorstein ‘ I 4
Honorable Mention - Alex Minor ‘ I 5

srouan wonb

Ist Place - Drew Martin ‘ I 3
Honorable Mentions - Amira
Hegazy ‘ I 5,, Ben Odclo ‘ I 1

perience to a new prospee. Number two,
recruitment is fun baby! I love meeting
new people and seeing fresh faces.”

First-year Austin Pierce said, “I want-
ed to host a Johnson so that I could of-
fer them a good first impression of W&L
and to aid the Johnson program, which
has given me so much liberty. It deﬁnite-
ly fulﬁlled my expectations... I felt ex-
hilarated to have such an amazing group
of kids on campus, and they constantly
impressed me.” '

In addition to the regularly scheduled
activities, many hosts took this chance to
really get to know their prospective stu-
dents through insightful conversations
about college life.

“The highlight of the experience had
to be the chats that [we] had after we
came home from Old House,” said Stois-

er. “After a day of experiencing both the
classroom and social scene, the Johnsons
had a lot ofquestions about what it really
meant to be a part of this campus... The
honest discussions that took place about
the pros and cons of W&L really made
me appreciate my place here.”

For many of the ﬁnalists, this was
their ﬁrst time visiting and staying on
campus, which was an eye-opening ex-
perience. “My favorite part of W&L was
the active thinking that seemed to go
on in every classroom and every social
group... [but] I was surprised that Lex-
ington had so much partying going on!”
commented Paul Crookston, a ﬁnalist
from Tampa, FL.

Said Dani Rosenthal, a ﬁnalist from
Berkeley Heights, NJ: “I come from up
north, near New York City, where you

Wish you were doing this...

...instead of this?

cannot leave anything" in public and
strangers are entirely indifferent to you.
At W&L people couldn’t be more polite,
helpful or honest. I had at least 6 people
who stopped and helped me around cam-
pus when I was hopelessly lost, and ev-
eryone said good morning and held open
doors for each other. The environment
was beyond what I hoped for!”

Several students also noted the won-
derful surprise of the snow storm. Noted
Eli Kresta, a ﬁnalist from El Campo, TX:
“The highlight of the trip was waking up
to snow on Monday and getting to make
snowmen and run around the campus. I
love how everyone walks around with a
smile on their face and seems genuinely
happy to be here.”

 
 
      
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 

Time fora cheerme-up... Official Spring Term countdown: 42 days! Getready for Derby
Days, tubing, streaking, going abroad and band parties!

  

   

6 - THE R|NG~TUM PHI - R MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2012 F

r  Congratulations to the Class of 2012! 

GRAD FAIR

3-DAY ANNUAL U.G. GRAD FAIR

Wednesday, March 14"‘ — Friday, March 16"‘
9:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.

Atrium, Elrod Commons

The time to celebrate the end of your four year journey is fast approaching! 5‘

From the moment you first stepped on campus, you knew you were entering a most special place. The
deﬁning traditions of Washington and Lee University.‘ academic rigor, student self governance and lives
measured by truth and integrity will mark you as honorable men and women and leaders of the future. As
your journey comes to a close and as you celebrate your graduation day on May 24th, enjoy the memories
of campus life, afternoons spent at Goshen, hikes up House Mountain, Fancy Dress and the many
friendships you have made. Celebrate with family and friends this special day!

ORDERING YOUR ‘

CAPS & GOWNS!

This is the ONLY opportunity to be
A ﬁtted for your environmentally

1 “green ” caps and gowns!
:. . (Purchase price is $50.00)

   

Washington and Lee
University

Engraved Chairs
Arm Chair or Rocker
“a lasting memory ”

   

2012 Graduation photos
(Each graduate will be photographed as they

receive their diploma from the University

. I . V Pres ‘dent. Photos may be purchased at
The Ofﬁclal Class Rlng lPhotoStore after graduation)
Seniors! Quality  , lined _
order in‘ time to wearfor gmduationj with a mat embossed with the University

name and crest are available at the Grad
Fair and the Washington and Lee

A B l i t’ 'll b . .
a four representa zve wz e Umverslty Store

available to fit you for this handsome
ring.

 

if

pholmdu

\ \ \ ‘

\\ 
\\ R \
\_/

 

   

MONDAY, MARCH12, 2012 7 .THE R|NG—TuM pm.

sports

S'l‘EPIlEN PECK

ANIDREW RENALIIO

At a tearful press conference last week, Owner Jim Irsay and Peyton
Manning jointly armounced that the star quarterback would not be back
next year for the Indianapolis Colts.

It was the end of an era in Indy. Since 1998, Manning racked up 141
, had hinted that such a move was imminent, yet it still came as a iegulaf 5935011 Vl°t°Tie5» Passed f0? 55,000 Yards and 399 t0\1°hd0WI1S,
shock. Peyton Manning is a lock for the hall of fame, and quar- won a Super Bowl, and collected four NFL MVP awards.
terbacks of his caliber are rare; when a team gets its hands on one, For many years, Peyton was the face of the League. Number 18 was,

The Indianapolis Colts recently released franchise quarterback
Peyton Manning, signaling their intent to rebuild the franchise
around (presumably) Andrew Luck. Jim Irsay, the Colts’ owner,

::.‘:;tq:;S:.:;"*t g“".‘i‘5..f;“%.¥LS.f.;’.i.‘;‘:‘:‘.“‘..ii The Colts recentlrreleased Peron infavor ?:i‘.t‘.?;.i?:.’::g:‘:::tiEi.i’.?:‘::°:::f“
, nrn p a _ _ - g ~ - , .

does not seem ‘right. Peyton Manning should have remained an ofthe upt   was It Professional sports are a business.

‘I Indianapolis Colt until heretired.  ra eglc or lus P an S P1 ‘ It’s one of many overused cliches in sports today, but it was the de-

lrsay’s main reasoning for releasing Manning was his question- . J. , _ - _ _ I g _ ﬁning characteristic in regards to the Peyton-Colts situation.

able health. Manning missed the previous season with a damaged 1 3tePh€f1 and Andrew glVe You their takes-1 Here are the variables that factored into Irsay’s decision to let Pey-
nerve and underwent several neck surgeries in an attempt to ﬁx the V _ ton go.
problem. He had a single-level cervical fusion in September after ‘ ’ I ’ Manning recently had his fourth neck surgery, an operation that
experiencing weakness in his right arm. Doctors have since cleared sidelined him for the entire 2011-12 Colt’s campaign. With Manning

Manning to play, saying the chances of sustaining a serious injury are actually pretty low, The on the sidelines holding a clipboard, Indy trotted out a hilarious rotating cast of hapless quarterbacks
issue, then, is that Manning may not fully recover the strength in his right arm, and may lack the (household names like Curtis Painter and Dan Orlovsky). Not surprisingly, the team went 2-14. Now by
same range of motion in his neck. losing so incredibly, the Colts won. By owning the worst record in the NFL, they receive the ﬁrst pick

Manning’s release is therefore defensible, but it still comes across as very cold. Manning’s in this year’s draft. And it just so happens that Andrew Luck, the most hyped quarterback coming out of
Colts were consistently among the best teams, in the NFL for a full decade and ran one of the most college in a while, will be available for Indy to draﬁ ﬁrst overall. And one more thing; Peyton was set to
. impressive offenses. Manning became the archetype for quarterbacks seeking to control the game receive $35 million in Salary next year if he played.
at the line of scrimmage by reading defenses and making pre-snap adjustments. Though he did And since Peyton had no interest in retiring and riding off into the sunset, Irsay could either keep
not win as many Super Bowls with the Colts as people expected, his consistent dominance of the Peyton, draﬁ Luck, and have around $50 million tied up in the quarterback position. Or he could release
regular season was incredible. And the fact that the 2011 Colts, largely unchanged since the 2010 Manning, and hand over the reigns to Luck immediately for a much more manageable sum of something
team that posted a 10-6 record, went 2-14 without Manning speaks to the man’s enormous impact. like 10 to $12 million next year. '
Manning spent 13 seasons with the Colts and never missed a game before missing the 2011 season The jury is still out as to whether or not Peyton can even perform at the same Pro-Bowl level he did
with a scary neck injury. And the woeful Colts, clearly indebted to his services over the years, re- for so many years prior. He is 36 years old, playing in a league that does not treat aging quarterbacks
spond by cutting him? I get it. Football is a business, This was not personal, It is time to rebuild, _ very kindly. And do not forget the fact that he has had four(!) neck surgeries to repair damaged nerves.
But Irsay made his decision in the moment and conveniently avoided the broader context. The A report came out a few months ago that Peyton was barely throwing at half of his former level of arm
decision to stay or go should have been Manning’s, as he had earned his tenure with the Colts. That strength. All this is incredibly disconcerting for me, and I can’t imagine how disconcerting it must be for
Irsay made the decision for him reeked of disrespect and ingratitude. Irsay, who would potentially be paying Peyton $35 million next year for damaged goods.

Besides leaving Manning in a predicament, Irsay has crushed Colts fans’ spirits by getting rid Some team desperate for a quarterback will pay money like that for Peyton’s services next year, but
of the star that was supposed to spend his whole career in Indianapolis. The NFL’s fairly equitable the Colts are fortunate. They have a ready-made replacement in Andrew Luck at a much lower price tag,
revenue sharing makes it easier for a small-market team like Indianapolis to retain its best players, just waiting to start throwing passes for Indy. Luck could very well be a colossal bust, but scouts haven’t
but it still seems like a special, idyllic situation when an elite player remains with a small-town been this high on a quarterback prospect in a long while. If Luck turns out to be even a poor-man’s ver-

.' team Just like Brett Favre had a unique relationship with Green Bay (before ruining it through sion of the signal-caller he is compared to the most, John Elway, then the Colts will be in very capable
his own poor judgment), Manning had a special connection with Indianapolis. And for sports fans hands.
in general, it is awkward and depressing to see a great athlete play for a different team. Michael Nowada)/S, F00l<le quaﬂerbacks 3“? being thrown into 300011 35 S0011 35 they are draﬂed (5993 Matt

Jordan never felt right with the Wizards. Joe Montana played for the Chiefs? What ifthe Boston Stafford, Andy Dalton, Cam Newton, etc.) and seem to be maturing much more quickly than the tradi-
Celtics had shipped Larry Bird to the Milwaukee Bucks? Like reading a novel and being disap- tional process of waiting a few years before even seeing the ﬁeld. Even Peyton Manning took every snap
pointed at characters’ portrayal in ﬁlm, seeing great athletes end their careers with different teams as a rookie back in 1998, and he turned out all right.

is frustrating and discouraging, We formulate the ideal image of an athlete based on our most It was simply time to move on in Indianapolis. Franchises change and the players change with them.
memorable experiences watching him or her, and when reality presents us with a different image—— The Peyton Manning era Was Wildly Successful, but now, it’S Andrew Luck’S time.

say Manning in a Dolphins uniforrn—-—it is a major let-down.

Peyton Manning may not be able to recapture his prime form, and Andrew Luck may reinvigo-
rate the Colts’ franchise, but Jim Irsay’s decision to release Manning exempliﬁes mismanagement
if not illogic. Manning deserved to continue in Indianapolis if he so desired. Irsay should have left
the decision to the player. By making his decision all about business, Irsay neglected Manning’s
q‘ dignity and deprived fans of watching Manning end his exemplary career in Indianapolis.

=""1<it§’l\‘E)lﬁEss   —

We helped y ’all out with the opening bracket, now ﬁll in the rest!

 

  

 

 
   

. UK
.. MVS/WK

~ u IOWAST
_: UCONN



4 mo
:1 NM sr

. !.....,........,_..!.’.'2£.';.lL...-.....- _
I1 ,_ _. C0!-0   _ g A
1 BAYLOR ; rsu
L____ NDAME ' ’ 1 GONZ
!g......_...,..,.£:‘t\!LE.EL-.....,   I e in wvu
1 DUKE I : omosr
I MICHST ’ . . »- , 1 .  1 UNC
3 MEM- | CREIGH
s SLU 1 u ALA
as NMEX V n TEMPLE
 . . .. u must. a u
   ”‘-—-—*“ 0 - Mica
.!.!.______. ovosor__.;._.1-—~—--4 
1- MURRAY '  F e ’ u sosu
I1 C01-057 l  I  ‘ 1| M NCST

Q‘ 1 MARQ ' a GTOWN
n BYU/ION . , n BELMNT
I FLA ' e '  :
!_.-...._.-._...!lﬂJ.Z..Z9...$!..-._...,. ’
ll _ NQRFLK , il*~——-—— 

. ., .DET,R.0.|,.  

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MARCH 12,2012

Sports

ondeck

 

MoN TuEs WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
, vs 1 MV5 vs vs
‘ » Stevenson 3')’ Guilford
Baseball 3:00pm Washjngto  pn. -TUftS
3:00 pm (DH) 1-00pm
Men's _"5' at
Salisbury H-S
Lacrosse 4:00 pm 1:00pm
W I at V5
omen S Hollms Catholic

Lacrosse 4:30 poo pm

M , at vs vs

en 5. , Randolph Case Mary
Tennis 4:00pm Western Wash.
Reserve 1:00 p
8:00 am
women’s VS Rand.
- _ 4:00pm
Tenms vs Lynch.
(5:30 pm)
at Roanoke
(4:00pm)
at
Track and Lynchbmg
Field ‘ 0136"
I 0W“ at owu
Golf Day 2 Day 3

inthe numbers
The total number of years since the last time Vanderbilt won
the championship game of the SEC basketball tournament.
1951 was also the last year that Vanderbuilt had made it into
the tournament championship game.
The total number of points that Deron Williams of the New Jer-
sey Nets scored against the Carolina Bobcats in a 104-101 win

on March 4. The performance is a personal record as well as a

franchise record.

11’

The total number of holes that Tiger Woods played in the Ca-
dillac Championship on Sunday before withdrawing. Woods

pulled out because ofa sore left. Achilles tendon. Last year he

injured his left Achilles tendon, which caused him to miss two

majors.

$120.6

The NFL salary cap in millions of dolalrs. This ﬁgure is
$225,000 more than last year. NFL teams must be under this

cap by Tuesday, which marks the beginning of free agency.

isoapbox

“It’s a great accomplishment just because
their history is so rich. Not only to beath
them, but to have an opportunity to play
those teams on this stage and in this game
was really important to us.’’’’

--FIor1dasubSomInoIes¢iarcILuloLoucIcafIarmo
171hranIodFsUdel'oatod4tInan|odUNcInuioA0c
1nunIamontchampIonshIpgamoonsundqy.Thoywon85-82
andynroIodbytrour|amentMvPMlcInaelSnear(18poIrns).

“Maybe now everybody realizes we’re not
invincible. We’re like everybody else out
there. We're going to have to execute, play
hard and with some aggressiveness and

intesnity or we will get beat.

-KonuiciqbaskuIbalIooaohJohncalIpanafharKanuicI:yIost
lnvandorblltlnihoﬁctountameritchamplonshlpgannoon

1 Sundqy.KarItuoky,wholost71-64,hadnatloota¢amoslnoo

Dooernbor10andwasundefeaIndlnthosEcunuI1hatpolnt.

 

    

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

Generals split doubleheader

Baseball loses a heartbreaker in the niglztcap

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee (5-8, 2-1 in the ODAC)
won the ﬁrst game 8-3 and then lost to fellow
Old Dominion Athletic Conference team Roa-
noke (8-8, 1-1 ODAC) in the nightcap, 8-7.

In the ﬁrst game, the Generals outhit the
Maroons 13-4 en route to victory. First-year
third baseman Nick Biumi led the Generals at
the plate going 3-3 with a walk.

Junior Ian Shaw got the win for the Gen-
erals, allowing 3 hits and 2 earned runs in 7
innings.

The Generals took the lead for good in a
3-run sixth inning. With two men on and one
out, junior Alex Mait singled up the middle.
Junior Will Salley and Biumi scored on the
play. Mait scored one batter later when sopho-
more Josh Josephson, batting as the designated
hitter, sent a double to center ﬁeld.

The Maroons scored one in the bottom of

the sixth in an attempt to respond, but did not
score again for the remainder of the game.

The Generals had the lead early on in the
nightcap. They scored two in the ﬁrst inning
when Josephson doubled to right center.

The Maroons fought back by putting runs
up on the board in both the second and third
inning. They took the lead in the third in-
ning when senior Matt Wallman hit a two-run
homerun over the left ﬁeld fence.

The Generals responded with a 4-run fourth
inning. Junior Chris Nault hit an RBI single to
center ﬁeld and then scored when junior Jona-
than Stutts tripled. Junior Luke Dreary also
scored on the play. Stutts went on to score on a
single by Biumi.

Roanoke scored a run in the sixth and
Washington and Lee tacked on another run in
the ninth.

Men's lax falls to

Meehan and Dabir each score 3

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

The men’s lacrosse team lost to Franklin
and Marshall on Saturday 12-1] on the neutral
ﬁeld at St. Paul’s School in Brooklandville,
Maryland.

The game was tightly contested from the
beginning. In the ﬁrst quarter alone the game
was tied at three separate scores. The game
was also tied entering the ﬁnal quarter of play.

Washington and Lee struck ﬁrst on an un-
assisted goal by ﬁrst-year Garrett Paglia with

11:21 remaining in the ﬁrst quarter. Sopho- .

more Andrew Setian of Franklin and Marshall
responded just seven seconds later with an
unassisted goal of his own. The scoring went
back and forth for the next few minutes until
F&M went on a three goal streak to lead 5-3 at

the end of the ﬁrst quarter.

F&M fourth goal in a row was scored by
sophomore Sean Kenny. The Generals were
able to respond by scoring two back-to-back
goals to ﬁnish up the half. The Generals en-
tered halftime down 6-5. ,

The Diplomats struck ﬁrst coming out of
the half on a goal off of sophomore Tristan
Miller. The Generals came back to score four
goals in a row to take their ﬁrst lead since the
ﬁrst quarter. After two more goals for the Dip-
lomats, the score was tied entering the ﬁnal
quarter of the game.

W&L was able to score two more times
in the fourth quarter but F&M was able to re-
spond again. Junior Kevin Kilpatrick scored

—In the bottom of the ninth, the Maroons
were able to load the bases and score a run on
a single by sophomore Jacob Clifton.

Senior Jody Davis came in to replace
sophomore Mike Palicz on the mound. He got
the next batter to groundout, but a run scored
and the runners advanced. After intentionally
walking junior Caylen Blaire to load the bases,
the Maroons scored on back-to-back singles to
win the game.

Palicz picked up the loss for putting the
eventual scoring run on base. He allowed four
runs on two hits without recording an out.

The Generals will play this week on Tues-
day and Wednesday as they face Stevenson
and Mary Washington respectively. They also
have a double-header versus Guilford on Sat-
urday. Each of these games is home.

the winning goal for F&M with 2:27 left to
play. Junior Mac Means got off the only Gen-
erals’ shot in the ﬁnal ﬁve minutes of play but
it went wide.

Shot differential was one of the main dif-
ferences between W&L and F&M. The Gener-
als took 12 less shots than the 40 attempted by
the Diplomats. Generals’ goalie, sophomore
Patrick Jennings, made 10 saves out of the 22
shots that were on target. Diplomats’ goalie,
ﬁrst-year Cameron Setian, made just 4 saves
out of 15 shots that were on target.

The Generals return to the ﬁeld when they
face top-ranked Salisbury on Wednesday. The
home game will be at 4:00pm on Wilson Field.

Van Sant leads the Generals to victory

Women is lacrosse defeats Haverford 14-12

By Hailey Hartley
STAFF WRITER

The 13th ranked women’s lacrosse team

' beat Haverford 14-12 on Wednesday on the

W&L Turf Field by taking an early lead and
stalling a Haverford comeback attempt.

The Generals started the game quickly by
scoring four unanswered goals in just over four
minutes. They extended their lead by as many
as six in the ﬁrst half.

After the Generals strong ﬁrst half, Haver-
ford answered with the ﬁnal three goals short-

Wemen’s Tennis

opponent date score
Emory & Henry 3/4 5-0
Guilford ’ 3/4 5-0
Hollins 3/10 8-1

ening the W&L lead to three.
The Generals were able to keep control

' of the lead during the second half even with

Haverford’s repeated attempts at a comeback.
Sophomore Alex Van Horn helped W&L con-
sistently keep the momentum up with four
draw controls.

Haverford was unable to score more than
two consecutive goals in their attempts to gain
the lead and the game came to a close with the

Men’s Laeresse

opponent date score
Swarthmore 3/7 14-8
Frank. & Marsh. 3/10 11-12

Generals getting the win by two goals.

Despite the close score, the Generals’ of-
fensive attack was relentless. First-year Julia
Van Sant led the Generals’ offense with four
goals. Sophomores Meade Brewster, Margaret
Klein and Senior Alli Shearin each tallied two
goals.

The Generals will return to the ﬁeld at Hol-
lins on Tuesday, March 13th at 4:30.

sports update

Basehal

W 9 L opponent date score
 S  Roanoke (1) 3/ 10 8-3
opponent date score Roanoke (2) 3/ I 0 7-8
Haverford 3/7 14-12 Albertus Magnus 3/11 3-2
Salisbury '

3/10 3-19

   

‘C

U

 

