 

  

 

work while you Walk

I

ifARTS&I.lFE/pagl‘eS I

Volleyball 12 — 09

Following Saturday's win, the Generals
streak isthe best in the program's history.

SPORTS / page 8

WASHINGTON AND ‘

Liza UNIVERSITY

THE RINo—TUM PHI.

MONDAY,SEPTEMBER19,201131’ THE STUDENTS AID FOR THE STUDENTS 3||ll'.‘E1B97 VOLUME CXV,NUMBER2

Washington and Lee security oﬁicers receive special training for handling sexual assault cases
Editors’s note: There have been many stories dealing with the issue of sexual assault in this newspaper

over the years, met with varying levels of enthusiasm. Some on campus are tired of reading stories full of
terrifying anonymous accountsof sexual assault and endless statistics. This Phi story isn’t like ‘the others.

By Kelly Mae Ross
STAFF WRITER

Three Washington & Lee campus
security oﬁicers were sent to the town

Need Help?

Student Health Center
540-458-8401
University Counseling
540-45878590
W&L Public Safety
540-458-8999
CAIR resources
540-458-5800
CAIR.wlu.edu

Educational Programming

540-453-4501

Violencetlntervention-Prevention

go.wlu.edu/VIP

 

of Normal, Ill. last month to attend.a
two-day training seminar that focused
on different aspects of
handling sex crime in-
vestigations. 4

The three ofﬁcers-—
Larry Stuart, Lisa Datz
and Kay Bostick—at-
tended two eight-hour
sessions in which they
learned how to better
help victims go through
the process of reporting
a sexual assault.

Members of Campus
Safety and the Student
Affairs Office specu-
late different reasons as
to why sexual assault
seems to be underreport-
ed on campus. Whatev-
er the reason, Sidney Ev-
ans, the dean of student

life, decided it was time for the school
to be more proactive in addressing sexu-
al assault crimes on campus.

“Knowing the [Student Faculty
Hearing Board] procedures had been ad-
dressed, we sort of felt like it was time
to make sure we were looking at our
educational efforts but that we were also
looking at how people get into the sys-
tem,” said Evans. “Because no matter
how good your procedures are, if people
aren’t reporting [crimes], your proce-
dures are never even going to come into
play.”

Mike Young, director ofpublic safety
at W&L, said he hopes that providing
easy access to these specially trained of-
ﬁcers will encourage more people who
have been sexually assaulted to come
forward. '

Young said he hopes to have at least
one of the trained ofﬁcers working dur-
ing every shift throughout the day. The

officers will be doing their jobs just as
before, but they now have another tool
in their arsenal that they can use to help
students should it become necessary.

While Youngsaid he believes that
those who commit acts of sexual vio-
lence “need to be in jail,” he encour-
ages people to report a crime through
the school if they are more comfortable
with that.

“For nine months this is your home
and we want you to be comfortable
here,” said Larry Stuart, one of the
trained officers and a 28-year veteran of
W&L Public Safety. '

W&L is not the only organization
pursuing new and innovative ways to
combat sexual assault. In July, Vice
President Joe Biden, Health and Human
Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius
and the White House Ofﬁce of Science
and Technology Policy announced a
new “Apps Against Abuse Technology

‘Logistics, cost and storage issues force e-cafe to eliminate meat options from its menu

By Leigh Dannhauser
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Returning students may have been
surprised over the past two weeks when
they headed to the Hillel House excited
for their favorite bagel, only to realize
that it’s no longer on the menu.

Hillel House’s new menu, imple-
mented on Sept. 5, is now dairy-kosher
instead of the kosher menu that they
-have used in the past. Translation: no
more meat.

With the removal of meat comes the
removal of some of people’s favorite
Hillel House meals.

Eight items, including the Reuben-
stein, the twisted chicken salad, and the
hot dogs, are no longer available in the
cafe.

‘‘I’m mad because I liked the Shenan-
doah Turkey. It was a good source of pro-
tein” said sophomore Meredith Lavin.

“The only other option is ﬁsh, which I
don’t like.”

Many in the W&L community have
yet to hear about the changes. Sage Um
is one ofthese people.

“No meat, at all? What?” Um said.

Samantha «Rosier, an officer of Hillel,
knew about the changes early but is still
not pleased.

“I am very upset but I understand it.
We weren’t making money,” Rosier said.

Amenie Mitchell, the head of the e-
cafe’, said that there were two main rea-
sons for the menu change.

“One, the logistics, time and effort
involved with maintaining our kosher
status by keeping meat, pareve, and dairy
separate ' was unsustainable” Mitchell
said. V

“The second reason for changing the

menu was the cost and storage issues
involved with sourcing certiﬁed kosher
meat,” added Mitchell.

Meat and dairy have to be stored in
separate places, and workers cannot -.
work with both items at the same time. 
Also, kosher meat is not readily avail- I
able nearby. To reduce the cost of ship-
ping, meat must be ordered in bulk but
there is not enough storage space readily
available.

Although meat is no longer available,
there are vegan, gluten, and dairy free
options. Ten new sandwiches and four
new salads have been added to the menu.

And students can still ﬁnd some of
their favorites elsewhere. Hot dogs, for-
merly provided in the e—café, are now
available in the co-op.

-1

 

 Eiusi add i . 
: ,g.Al.l kosher meats are “kosheredf’ (salted); ..

Shootin

Butchering 101 .

Only certain cuts are kosher.  l<'n" K

i sure your butcher does
salt .

Go Fish . .,
. *-‘All ﬁsh (assuming they

 , :...That_means- no eel’ or_shelIﬁsh
 ‘Segaagation is a good thing
. o ai

d is cute orized into

r ;
. thumb: no airy or meat in flh

Bring in" the Rabbi
 ' osher F

_ ood isn't necessarily “blessed”  rﬂifb
;.supeif;vise to make sure all guidelines 

«.v._- .-.r:.z ,..—:'.-.: v.’

N? Pork 1 1 P.‘ * 5: a . 
Disregard the _2nd iéimendmenti . ,
animals is never koshe
Transla ion: no wild game — “

ave ﬁns an_d7scaIes)i are kosher

meat and pareve.FRule
e same meal. Ever:

- A new Weapon in an oldbattle

Challenge”#a competition to design
the best app that will somehow help pre-
vent sexual assault and dating violence.

The winner of the challenge will be
announced in October, but the Vice Pres-
ident doesn’t want Americans, particu-
larly college students, to wait until then
to do something about sexual assault.

“Start talking about this on campus
 let me know what else we should be
doing,” Biden said in a video message
posted on the “I is 2 many” section of
the White House website (whitehouse;
gov/I is2many).

W&L would also like to hear stu-
dents’ opinions about its campus sexual
assault policies, preventive or otherwise,
and ideas of ways that the school might
improve upon them.

“If students have thoughts,” said Ev-
ans, “boy, we would really love to hear
them.”

t- Hillel says ‘shalom’ to meat

 
 
   
    
      

“g.

5*}

in ' 4

GABRIELLE ESPY/staff photographer Students enjo bagels, sandwiches and salads in the e—cafe at the Hillel House. Logistical dif-
ﬁculties force the organization to cut meat from its menu.

. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

50

"”"§E°2"U*l@I\‘

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2011

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

pinions

 

   

Courtney Stodden: Christian turned Nympho .

 I Curvier than
‘ the ride to Pink
I Palace; long,
golden ringlets;
self-described"

“Model, Re-
cording Artist,
Actress, Danc-

 

er, T.V Show

Hostess, & 

. Doug’s.. Girl;”

SCVCTITCCII years

By Campbell Burr Old; lmsband’
OPINIONS EDITOR D°l‘g> Calls

God her “plas-
tic surgeon;” virgin...until her recent
wedding. Ladies and Gentlemen, meet
Courtney Stodden.

If you have not seen her in the news,
and by news I mean E! TV or a cheap
tabloid, you are missing out. Courtney
Stodden, a 17-year-old recently made
famous by her marriage to former Lost
star, 51-year-old Doug Hutchison, is
Ho1lywood’s newest wannabe-“It Girl.”
Key word: wannabe. It appears that
Courtney will do whatever it takes to be
famous, includingdying her dogs hair
pink, pretending that she never thought
that her marriage to a man 4 years older
than her father would capture public at-

tention, and pretending to be a devout
Christian while simultaneously acting
like a...(thinking of a nice way to put
this—oh well)...slut. Courtney is will-
ing to bare and share every inch of her
body and detail of her relationship to the
public. She began her quest for fame by
advertising herself as a devout Chris-
tian. Look how far she’s come.

The way a woman uses 140 charac-
ters to communicate with the world tells
a lot about her, especially when she is
aware that 28,668 people are following
her. Anyone who thinks that Courtney
Stodden has an ounce of self-respect
should check _her twitter (@Court-
neyStodden) and reconsider. She misus-
es words (i.e. “the sultriness of the day
gently begins to heighten”), uses terms
she thinks are sexual in ways that don’t
make sense (i.e. “a lush creamy ﬁlling”)
and attempts to use alliteration (i.e. “en-
twining my body playfully in white wil-
lowy sheets as I wildly wallow on top of
the wondrous bed”), but fails miserably.
She alternates between tweeting passag-
es from the Bible and tweeting details
about her sex life. It’s confusing, to say
the least. '

Please explain how the same person
who tweeted this on August 2nd 

“It is the blessing of the LORD that
makes rich, And He adds no sorrow to
it. ” Proverbs l0.'22*

could tweet this on August 28th. ..

While 1 lie beneath this sizzling-sun,
the popsicle that I am sweetly sucking
on begins to melt & drips irresistibly all
over my moist body!

Or this on September 16th. ..

Sensuously straddling this pillow as
sweet fantasies tenderly ﬂutter like but-
terﬂies throughout my entire being. ;-)

(Complete with a link to a profes-
sionally taken picture of her holding a

terday. Furthermore, Courtney pretends
to have saved sex for her husband, but
she shares half-naked pictures with the
whole world. This poor, misguided girl
needs parents, but now that she is mar-
ried, maybe their job is done. Is Doug
the new enforcer‘? I wonder if Courtney
still has a strict “bedtime?” Hmmm.
Watch any of Courtney’s interviews
and you’ll be wondering if her vocabu-
lary is big enough for her to understand
the interview questions. When asked
how she knew that Doug was the “one
for [her],” she took a long pause and

She alternates between tweeting passages from the
Bible and tweeting details about her sex life. It is

confusing, to say the least.

pillow and a rose in her mouth. #riiiight)

Another way that Courtney tries
to play good girl is by advertising that
she saved herself for marriage. Good
for Courtney for waiting, but give me a
break, she wed at age 16. She probably
learned about the birds and the bees yes-

then began describing his physical at-
tributes. “Because of his face, of his
body, of his sexy hair. I mean, talk about
seducing, he seduced me! Immediately.
And I knew off the bat that he was the
one for me and that was it. You know,
and when you ﬁnd that one man that

Opinions editor Campbell Burr calls the I 7-year-old newlyweds quest for fame hopeless and her behavior ironic

you know you love and you know you
love everything about him—his face, his
body, his hair—go for itl” Wow, Court-
ney, thank you for the modem-day deﬁ-
nition oftrue love!

Apart from offering a dependable
form of entertainment for the work-
place, Courtney’s service to the com-
munity is her anti-bullying campaign.

, Please look up her hit single, “Don’t Put

It On Me,” and her informational video,
“Cyber Bullies and Cyber Victims,” so
you can appreciate all she is doing for
middle school girls: making them feel
flat-chested and pale.

Since Courtney’s singing and speak-
ing abilities do not seem promising, it’s
safe to say that she has already had her
ﬁfteen minutes. It’s time to turn our at-
tention to real women with beauty and
brains, like Meg Whitman, Laura Ingra-
ham, and Oprah Winfrey. Of course by
writing this article, I’ve only succeeded
in giving Courtney what she wants: a
few more Twitter followers and some
more YouTube views.

The modern-day Value of comic books

Columnist/lli Greenberg describes the thrill of escaping into a world of superheroes where anything is possible

As sum-
mer winded
down and
the tem-
peratures
didn’t let
up, I found
> myself es-
" ‘. caping the
heat by
heading to
the movies.
Or to go see
a “picture” as my grandparents say.

It was about 11:30 a.m., I was riding
solo and I was seeing “Captain Ameri-
ca: The First Avenger.” This scene may
sound kind of sad, but it really wasn’t. I
had been psyched about this movie all
summer and had had a similar day in
June when “X-Men: First Class” came
out.

And then, somewhere during the

 

By All Greenr I I
COLUMNIST

opening credits, it hit me like a ton of
bricks, or a punch in the face from Jean
Grey. 1 don’t know how I hadn’t truly
realized it before, but I am a geek.

The Harry Potter obsession is one
thing, still playing Pokemon on my
Gameboy is another- but what really
steals the cake is my love for superhe-
roes. It was 9th grade when I was ﬁrst
formally introduced to their world. All
it took was the ﬁrst X-Men movie on
DVD and I was hooked.

Soon I was comparing the ﬁlm ver-

my mutation would be before ﬁnally set-
tling being multilingual with a lightning
speed metabolism. A girl can dream.

Before long I was dissecting story
lines, frustrated that so many different
outcomes were written for the same
character. Marvel doesn’t seem to care
much for logistics or timelines, explain-
ing why Cyclops and Prof. X had never
met before in the ﬁrst X-Men set in the
2000s, but somehow worked together in
‘First Class’ set around the Cuban Mis-
sile Crisis in the early 60s.

I feel like I have never really known a world that

didn ’t need a superhero or two.

sion of Rogue to her clearly superior
comic book version and debating what

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF



THE RING-TUM PHI.

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
JAYNA JOHNS
CHAUNCEY BAKER
NEIL HAGGERTY
DANIELLE HURLEY
EMILY LEVENTHAL
JOHN PAUL BEALL
STOCKTON BULLITT
LEIGH DANNHOUSER
ALI GREENBERG
RYAN JOHNSON
STEPHANIE KRASNOV
ALEXANDER MARAGOS
STEPHEN PECK
SALLY PLATT
BRIDGET ROONEY
KELLY MAE ROSS
ANDREA SISO

ALLIE WEISS

BELLA ZUROSKI
JULIANNA SATTERLY
GABRIELLE ESPY
MATT GOSSETT ,
DAVE WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAS
BRIAN SIMPSON

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450,
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

And while I am still on that tangent,
what is going on with the fourth Spider-
man movie? Am I the only one who
watched the ﬁrst one? You can’t just
completely change the beginning of the
story a decade and two sequels later.

But apart from the minutiae and
inaccuracies, I came to love the super-
hero universe. It started with X-Men,
but grew to include “Spider-man,” Iron
Man, and eventually The Watchmen.
And yes, I read the graphic novel ﬁrst

Fashion Without passion

thank you very much.

Soon the midnight premieres became
routine as more and more superhero
movies came out to satiate the hunger
and craze that has developed for the
genre in recent years. At least I know
it’s notjust me.

But what is it about this universe that
appeals to us? I think there are a few ex-P‘
planations with the simplest being that
it is entertaining, colorful and full of ac-
tion; exactly what sum1ner_ blockbusters
and easy reads are supposed to be.

But, there might be something else
there. Something more sentimental.
Something less shallow than pure enter-
tainment.

Comic books, like any other book of
fiction, are escapes and I think our gen-
eration needs an escape. Beyond ‘Jersey
Shore’ and ‘Gossip Girl’, we seem to
need something to believe in. As silly
or farfetched as it sounds- comics and
superheroes provide hope, and also pro-
vide some pretty gripping social com-
mentary if you just know where to look.

We grew up in an age of uncertainty:
one of high alerts and school shootings
and wiretaps. We were in 3rd through
6th grade when the planes hit, and I feel
like I have never really known a world
that didn’t'need a superhero or two; a
Spider-man to clean up the streets of

New York, an Ironman working on Mid-
dle East relations, or Professor Xavier
mediating world conﬂicts and promot-
ing acceptance.

We love superheroes because they
are fun and kill bad guys. What more
could we ask for in a movie. But I also
think we love them because we need
them, the idea and hope that they repre-
sent. There is realness in their flaws that
lends credibility to our hopes that good
does, or could, exist and prevail.

Maybe I am stretching it, but for me,
comics are that much needed escape.
One that leads to a world of endless pos-
sibiIities- where people climb walls and
read minds and their bipolar disorder
leads to the ability to conjure up energy
ﬁelds and destroy lakes.

The X-Men stand for tolerance, ac-
ceptance of oneself and of others. Bat-
man watches over Gotham. The Green

Lantern ﬁghts evil in brightest day and’

blackest night.

We could dissect every series or
movie to ﬁnd societal references or de-
bate the merits of DC vs. Marvel for-
ever. But atthe end ofthe day, we don’t
have to ﬁnd hidden meanings. Maybe
deep down Superheroes give us hope,

but if not at least Tony Stark has some

great one-liners.

Do W&L students lack individuality when it comes to clothing choice?

September
8th, 2011; most
people would
regard this day
as the start of
the school year,
I was more con-

’ cemed with the
start of the new
fashion calen-
dar.

For the
third year in a
row, Fashion s Night Out took over the
shops and streets of New York City and
kicked off Fashion Week, while I sat in
my room, reading 40 pages in my new
textbook. FNO is a global initiative to
help boost the shopping economy by
bringing together fashionistas all over
the world in support of full price retail:
essentially, it’s the event to be at if you
are like myself, and refer to the Vogue
on your nightstand as the Bible.

So while I was hitting the books
and putting my tuition money to work,
all I could think about was how much I

 

By tephanie Kasnov
CO L U M N I ST

_ would rather be in NYC (ignore the fact

that I have no connections to even get
me into the tents). I spent the summer
interning in the city, and leaving behind
that wondrous place for rural Lexington
' was difﬁcult, to say the least.

As I ﬁnd myself back on this campus

of less than 2,000 students, I cannot help

I but realize the lack of personal style. I
emphasize the word “personal” because
the people here deﬁnitely have style, but
it generally falls under the category of
Lilly Pulitzer, Jack Rogers, and Ralph

Lauren. One look into Lee Chapel dur-
ing O-Week and you can see that the
kids here know how to “dress to im-
press,” but not dress to stand out.

There is nothing wrong with the clas-
sic preppy look that many a man and
women sport on campus, but there is
something I crave to see in one’s style,
and that is the individuality ofit. It’s all

ment.

Although I often feel overwhelmed
by the amount of polos and khakis I see
around me, every now and then I get a
taste of what I miss most about New
York. It’s a rock n’ roll tee tucked into
a leather mini, or a ﬂoral dress paired
with neon orange combat boots, and I
am reminded that some students here do

One look into Lee Chapel during 0- Week and you

can see that the kids here know how to “dress to

impress, ” but not dress to stand out.
 

too easy to ﬂip through Elle and ﬁnd an
outﬁt that is fashionable, but true style
comes from taking that outﬁt and mor-
phing it into something of your own.

-Walking to class is like walking through

a J. Crew catalogue that Jenna’ Lyons
never had time to style.

Yes, Lexington has about one-mil-
lionth the number of residents that NYC
does, but it is not just the numbers that
limit the person style I see here. It also
lies in the fact that we live in a rural
southern town that does not exactly leap
to accept diversity. Since I do not see
this quality of Lexington changing in the
near future, in the meantime, I quench
my fashion thirst online by spending
countless hours clicking through Spring
2012 slides.

Fortunately, we are not completely
hopeless in the personal style depart-

express themselves through fashion.

Not everyone may feel comfortable
ﬂaunting an avant-garde style, but for
the most part, the students on campus
dress impeccably. The colonnade will
not look like the Chanel runway this fall,
but it would be an understatement to say
that as a student body, we will look any-
thing less than really damn good as we
walk down it.

 

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER I9, 2011

3 ~ THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

opinions

How to raise that participation grade

Stockton Bullitts words of advice... or, at least,

You
have
probably
noticed
by now
that there
are two
certain-
ties about
going to
Washing-
ton and
Lee. The
first is that
if you are drinking on private property at
a Friday or Saturday night party, LexPo
will pull you into the street and charge
you for an alcohol offense related to
drinking in public. The other is that you
will have a participation grade in every
class you take this term.

I’ll get to this year’s problem with
the werewolves of Lexington in another
issue. But, let’s be honest, only a class
action lawsuit will do anything to cur-
tail the needless arrests, so I’ll focus on
something that you can affect, participa-
tion. Whether you are taking a biology,
music or economics class, somewhere
between ﬁve and twenty percent of your
grade is based on how much you add to
class discussions. When you were ap-
plying to this school, you were probably
tricked into liking this aspect of liberal
arts schools. It puts less pressure on your
exams, and how hard is raising your
hand once or twice a class anyway?

Well, it’s tougher than you think. You
may be all smiles now. The reading may
actually seem interesting and class dis-
cussion may seem vaguely interesting.
However, once the class honeymoon pe-
riod is over, that participation grade will

   

By Stockton Bullitt
coLu M N 1 ST

be a much bigger burden. There will be '

days when you have the ﬂu, didn’t do
the reading last night because you sim-
ply had to watch the “Pretty Little Li-
ars” ﬁnale, or are simply too hung over.

These are the days when you glance at
the clock and tell yourself that there are
only 2460 seconds left of class time.
This is when you will curse the day
Robert E. Lee invented the participation
grade. But, if you simply remember this
article, your participation grade will be
the only thing you’re not worried about
come mid-December.

The key to the participation grade
is developing a strategy. Let’s be hon-
est, simply doing the work on time and
being interested in the subject isn’t go-
ing to happen. You are going to need to
get the grade without being the perfect
student, and to do that, you need to ﬁll
a certain role in the classroom. This is
important because when the professor
goes to the grade book at the end of the
year to divvy up par-

some steps for every student when it comes to class-time discussion

the real world, but in college you can
never go wrong with other people think-
ing that you are incredibly inept but,
gosh darn it, do you work hard. Whether
on the playing ﬁelds, picking up girls, or
in the classroom, I have found the most
success when people are certain that I’m
a well-meaning dumbass. This deﬁnitely
works with professors, who like parents,
want to believe in their ability to captain
your ferry from childhood to adulthood.
So you should do your best to help them
believe that they are changing you pro-
foundly over the course of the semester.
Start out with a couple of idiotic com-
ments in the beginning of the year. You
know the ones where the professor has
to struggle to bring what you said into
the narrative of the lecture. You’ll know

for the entire semester because he or she
wants to take credit for your progress.
Sure, the students who see right through

/your‘ shameless ploy will probably hate
you for manipulating the education sys-
tem so badly, but you’ll have an A, so
screw them.

If you have more of a conscience
but still don’t want to actually do all the
work every day, there are other methods
to getting your participation grade up.
You can be the Annoying Commenta-
tor. If you are already knowledgeable
in a subject, then you are perfect for
this position. Whenever anyone makes
a comment that you remotely disagree
with, simply correct him and pon-
tiﬁcate on your point of view. Raising
your hand or waiting your turn to talk

is for the plebeians

ticipation points, he
or she needs to see
your name and think,
“Oh, that’s the
student.” Even if it
conjures up a nega-
tive image in the pro-
fessor’s mind, as long
as the professor can
think of you as doing
something in class,
you will get a good participation grade.
So, here are the different ways you can
become that student in class.

Disclaimer: if .you are a professor,
this has no basis in reality, and you
should probably skip over to the sports
section. By reading ﬁction in a newspa-
per, you are doing your part to under-
mine the true beneﬁt that newspapers
add to society. And by undermining
newspapers, you are basically support-
ing the terrorists because terrorists don’t
like newspapers, especially Dutch ones.
So, professors, just do your part and stop
here.

My favorite method is the ,Gee Whiz
student. I don’t know how things are in

Even if it conjures up a negative image in the pro-
fessor ’s mind, as long as the professor can think of
you as doing something in class, you will get a good
participation grade. I

you are doing well when the professor
nods a little too vigorously when you are
putting forward a comment, and you’ll
know you are golden when the profes-
sor gives you the “Jenny talking to For-
rest Gump” smile whenever you say
something particularly dumb. Your next
step is the improvement phase. Starting
around Oct. 10 or so, you should start
making the “quoting text and saying
‘I think I know what this means, but
I’m not positive’” kind of comments.
Finally, around November start actu-
ally trying in class and contributing
real thoughts. When this happens, the
professor will be more impressed than
if you had simply said smart comments

who have to take
this class to actually
learn something. All
you need to do is call
out whenever you
feel like it and share
your omniscience
with the rest of the
class. Sure, profes-
sors will hate you,
but there’s no way
they can dock points from your partici-
pation grade because you are constantly
talking.

If you still like to pontiﬁcate but you
aren’t conﬁdent enough in the subject
material to do so every ﬁve minutes,
then you should be the Speech Maker.
All you need to do is know about ﬁve
percent of the material and have an
opinion on it for every class. This is
perfect for you if homework is a bore.
Just do ten minutes of reading and think
about it, then when the material comes
up in class, all you need to do is take the
reins and lecture the class for a solid ﬁve
minutes. After ﬁve solid minutes of talk-
ing, you won’t need to raise your hand

one more time for the rest of class. The
only challenge is to make sure that no-
body else beats you to the punch when
your subject is brought up.

If sharing original thoughts is too
much for you then you should deﬁnitely
be the Repeater. For some reason pro-
fessors have never caught onto this in-
furiating, yet effective trend. When an-
other student answers a question, all you
need to do is raise your hand and say the
exact same thing but in different words.
The key to never getting noticed is you
need to put emphasis on your state-
ment like you just discovered penicillin.
For example, if someone else answers
“Christopher Columbus sailed the ocean
blue in 1492,” you need to raise your
hand and say, “You know, if you really
think about it, a little before 1500, this
guy, Christopher Columbus, well, he
sailed across the ocean. An entire ocean.
Wow.” Cheap and manipulative? Yes.
But, also wonderfully effective.

Lastly, if you are too shy to talk in
class, you have two ways to get over
being the token Quiet Student. Either
harass the professor with questions af-
ter class and during office hours or send
paragraph long emails to the professor
trying so you can “understand the mate-

.rial a little better.” As long as the con-

tact is regular and you appear to sound
interested in the material, you are free
to zone out and think about what’s for
lunch during the entire class.

There are other methods to getting
that participation grade up, but those are
the big ones. Yes, it takes a little. more
effort than doing absolutely nothing,
but, trust me, ‘it’s much easier than actu-
ally being a quality student all the time.
Just remember, if these methods don’t
work out, kissing some good ole ass
never hurt anyone.

A touchdown for any class schedule  

The homework for PE 3 01 may beat getting drunk at the cabins, or so columnist Sally Platt believes

By Sally Platt
C o L U M N l s T V

This past Wednesday as my fellow
W&L party lovers were out having a
good time I was stuck in’ my house on
the couch. As I imagined them listening
to frat-tastic music with cups of Natty
Light in their hands (Natty Light? Since
when has anyone missed that? Only the
truly party-desperate), I was having a
bit of a pity party. Could this homework
take any longer? I mean seriously, I’ve
been watching ESPN for hours and I
still don’t know why A-Rod and Cam-
eron Diaz broke up. Did ‘I say watch-
ing ESPN? Oh yeah, that’s right, that’s
my homework. Somehow I, the most
un-spoitsknowledgeable person in the
world, ended up in PE 301, Philoso-
phy and Techniques of Coaching. Also
known as the-coolest-class-at-W&L.
Our homework consists of watching
ESPN and keeping up with football and
other major sports. Frat lords, be jeal-
ous. Oh, except for the insanely hard
tests every Tuesday.

I had just failed the ﬁrst test (30%).
It was still Wednesday, so if I wanted I
could drop the class, go out to the cab-
ins, and have a fantastic night. But I
knew that was not a possibility. For one
thing, I wanted to push this whole lib-
eral arts idea to its limits and see where
it could take me. Isn’t the point of liberal
arts to learn at least a bit from disciplines
across the board? And isn’t sports as far

.that I had subjected

from history, my major, as possible? Ac- -

tually, that is just the reason I told my-
self because I thought it sounded cool.
The real reason I was in the class was
because I had made a mistake at regis-
tration. I assumed any PE class could

I be used to fulﬁll the

just get arrested for? What sport would
you associate the term “Phillies” with?
Ok, that wasn’t one, but I still didn’t
know the answer. I didn’t know the an-
swer to any of these. Panic. But luck-
ily this was just a practice test. l..did,

time I came back to take ‘the ﬁrst Tues-
day test.

This proved harder than I expected.
As I sat and watched my ﬁrst football
game since, I think, that one Superbowl
that the Eagles were in, I kept on get-
ting distracted. Tom

required four classes
needed to graduate.
Never again was I go-
ing to take the 8 AM
weight training (with
the football coach!)
myself to last fall .16‘
term. Oh how cute, I
thought as I looked at
the list of options, a
coaching class. I bet all we do is have a
little talk about who our favorite coach-
es are and then go mess around in the
gym for awhile (kind of like how all you
do in Self-Defense is learn a few moves
and then congratulate yourself on never
having gotten raped). Easy stuff. (Only
later did I learn it did not actually count
as a PE and would, all two credits of it,
end up in my GPA.)

I walked into the class on the ﬁrst
Friday and --- wow, these are all guys.
Oh wait, one other girl. Whew. Still, this
was different than I expected. We began
with a practice test. Who is in the NFL
top rankings? What did Manny Ramirez

I was so busy learning why linebackers have to be
fat that I forgot to memorize the exact expletives

Serena uttered on her rampage against the evil line-

however, know the answer to the next
question the professor (oops, “coach”)
asked. We were discussing “Coaching
Philosophy.” “So what, class, does the
word philosophy actually mean?” My
hand shot up in the air in true Hermione
Granger style. “It means: love of leam-
ing.” A typical test-book answer, right?

The coach looked at me quizzically’

with a “wow, this one’s a real retard”
look on his face and quickly moved on

’ to Mr. Football Dude beside me who,

of course, knew the right answer. Cha-
grined and embarrassed I walked away
from the class detennined to do better. I
would learn all this “sports stuff’ by the

Brady just looks
so good with long
hair. He kind of re-
minds me of a “lax
bro.” Actually, he
kind of reminds me
of a Phi Kap. Oh
wait, I mean “re-
. minded.” (Too soon,

too soon, I know.)

Anyhow, after I had
to ask my RA how many points a “ﬁeld
goal” counted for, I realized just how
much work was ahead of me. (Then,
of course, the Spanish TA walked in
and after staring at the screen for a few
minutes, asked me what the biggest
football game ever was. I told her about
the Superbowl. When she then politely
inquired whether I thought the Generals
would be in it this year, I knew I was in
good company.)

So, despite my best efforts to learn the
rules of football, basketball, NASCAR,
baseball, and tennis in one weekend (oh
and why, by the way, do they have so
many scores in tennis? Couldn’t they

just condense it all into one?) I failed
my ﬁrst test. I was so busy learning why
linebackers have to be fat that I forgot
to memorize the exact expletives Ser-
ena uttered on her rampage against the
evil line-judge. Or, for the matter, what
quality of, um, product Michael Phelps
so famously imbibed in a few years ago.
(Pineapple express I bet, those athletes
really got the dough.)

There was no dropping this class. I
won’t feel like a true American until I
know, at least, who won the last Super
Bowl. Plus, now I have something to
prove to all those guys (did I mention
I tied for the worst grade in the class?
And that the grades are posted for every-
one to see?). And, of course, there is the
fact that PE 301 is, after all, the coolest-
class-at—W&L. I highly suggest you take
it next term. (This is supposed to be the
thesis of this article in case you haven’t
noticed.) There will always be more
Wednesdays. And there will always be
the cabins (especially if they keep on
building more of them). And there will
deﬁnitely always be more Natty Light.
But there will not always be a game be-
tween the Colts and the Browns, so now
it’s time to go watch ESPN.

Party foul: O-Week disappoints  

F irst-year Andrea Siso describes how her impressions of the W&L social scene did not meet her expectations

To start
this off, I’d
I like to men-
 tion that I’m a
Big City girl.
You know the
. ,. type—some-
J times into
 just going to
 a concert, or

, to the art gal-
lery, or to a
Woody Allen

movie. And maybe, if the feeling’s right,

a nightclub here or there. I went to a high

school that never had parties. Mostly
because we were all busy cramming for
the next big test. Yes, it was one of those

.

    

By Andrea Siso
COLUMNIST

schools—where no one really does any-
thing, because it just so happens that a
high concentration of dorks, like my-
self, went

ones given through watching movies
and TV shows. And of course, I realize
that perhaps the party environment de-

much crestfallen with disappointment.

This is what the whole build-up was all

about? A party broken up by the police
at 11 p.m.? Really?

there. Ex-
cept usu-
ally the
reason
why peo-
ple want-
ed to go
to my school was because they wanted
to be doctors. Not because they wanted
to speciﬁcally be Meredith Grey, like I
did in the eighth grade.

Anyway, I’m not used to the whole
“party” environment—'no experience
in the matter, unfortunately, besides the

This is what the whole building up was all about? A C
party broken up by the police at 11 p.m. ? Really?

picted there is just the result of Holly-
wood smoke and mirrors, but a girl can
dream, can’t she?

So when I ﬁnally decided to kick my
homebody habit and go to a party dur-
ing O-Week (do you really have to guess
what I’m about to say?), I was pretty

And of course I directed the
rage internally. Oh, naivety,
you seem to always get me into
trouble. I don’t know why I set
my mental standard so high—I
was basically setting myself up
for the enormous let down I ex-
perienced.

So after that, I decided to save my-
self from any potential displeasure by
staying in, which is an entirely differ-

ent problem (hey, na'1'vite'! Ol’ buddy, ol’l

pal!)
I want to push this stifling sentiment

aside and just open my mind to any sort
of possibility. Of course there will be
bad parties, but they will just make the
good ones even better. Whatever comes,
comes~que sera, sera, right?

And so, readers, guess what I’m go-
ing to be doing this Friday night?

 

4-THE RlNG-TUMPH|- MONDAY, SEPTEMBERl9,20ll

 

    

  

ing to put it away for ﬁfty years.” Today,
half a century after President Kennedy’s
inauguration, Caroline has decided to
release these tapes—unedited.
Jacqueline Bouvier was working
as a photographer and was engaged to
a stockbroker when she ﬁrst met John
Kennedy. She describes the young Jack

A glance into the W0

A favorte YouTube vide

 

By Bridget Rooney & Bella Zuroski
CO LU M N I STS

After observing countless YouTube
videos during “study breaks” in Ley-
bum Library freshman year, we are fair-
ly conﬁdent that the majority of students
at this school are familiar with some of
the comedic gems that YouTube can
provide between a lab write up, calculus

ing to look like the First Lady. “I always
remember watching Mr. Ed,” Caroline
says, “and the women on Mr. Ed were
always trying to look like Mama, and I
thought it was so hilarious. I mean, ob-
viously she wanted to look nice, but [the
clothes] weren’t what mattered the most.
I think they were important for what she

homework, and a term paper. Although
we watch them for pure entertainment
and they appear, on the surface, to be
completely ridiculous, if one takes a
deeper look into the framework behind
the comedy it is very easy to ﬁnd paral-
lels between daily life here at W&L and
the lives of these YouTube sensations.
The following is our ﬁrst installment of
YouTube videos. DISCLAIMER: To
fully understand, it would be best if you
watch the video before reading this ar-
ticle. We promise. '

Boys Will Be Girls, by the Harvard
Sailing Team. »

Boys — have you ever wondered
what girls actually talk about behind
closed doors? Although it may seem
ridiculous, this depiction by the sketch
comedy group, Harvard Sailing Team,
(although a bit exaggerated) provides a
frighteningly realistic representation of

 

had only begun to feel like a home. “I
think a woman always adapts, and es-
pecially if you’re very young when you
get married [Jacqueline Bouvier was
only 24-years—old when she married
the 36-year-old John Kennedy]. When
you’re, you know, unforined, then you
can really become the kind of wife that

“girl talk.” When girls at W&L retire
for the day back to the comfort of the so-
rority house, dorm, apartment, etc., they
often do some of the following:

I) Overanalyze situations, such
as running into someone in the daylight
who you have only ever seen when the
sun is down. “Oh my God, they totes
saw me comingout of co-op so I obvi
ran the other way.” ‘

2) Obsessing over meaningless
texts (or lack thereof). “Should I text
him? Should I wait? What time should
I text him? What do you think this text
means? Do I seem too needy?”

3) Getting overly invested into
the emotional world of reality televi-
sion. While watching who shed the
most pounds on “The Biggest Loser” or
which “Real Housewife” (from Beverly
Hills or New Jersey or New York or At-
lanta or Miami or DC or Orange County

Since the release of the tapes, Jacque-
line Kennedy has been cast in a slightly
less tactful light, especially with regard
to issues such as feminism.

Jacqueline Kennedy is remembered
to have said in one controversial state-
ment, “I get all my opinions from my
husband... How could I have any po-

or any other woman on Bravo) is get-
ting divorced, we feel as though our
own emotional state depends on how
Bethenny Frankel is feeling today.

4) Talking obsessively about
food. Whether we are looking up the
sorority menu for the day (OMG, which
house has taco bar today?!?!) or saying
that our new lifestyle starts tomorrow
when we buy our ﬁrst fruit cup from the
co-op (“our diet starts tomorrow”), we
usually ﬁnd ourselves returning to our
old habits of Buﬁalo Bites, Sunrises,
and Pink Hut (our version of Pinkberry).
To make ourselves feel better, we return
to our old friend (see Number 3) “The
Biggest Loser.”

5) One of the most important as-
pects of being a girl is having a “good
group” to share everything with. And
when we say everything, we mean ev-
erything. “Wait, can you read that text

It was ﬁlled with adventure and wisdom,
laughter and love, gallantry and grace.
So farewell, farewell.”

rid of girls

0 is not only entertaining, but also a frighteningly realistic depiction of female interactions

out loud again? I couldn’t hear you over
Bethenny. He said what!?” Boys be-
ware: when you think you are texting a
girl, your messages could be read aloud
to the entire third ﬂoor of a sorority
house or hall. Big Sister is watching...
literally.

We are not saying all girls are one
hundred percent like this. We know that
they (ourselves included) are not. Ob-
viously, this school is ﬁlled with intel-
ligent, bright, responsible women whose
minds have much more to worry about
than Bravo Television and boys, and
who are going to go on to accomplish
much bigger things than analyzing text
messages. However, one must admit
that this is an occasional part of every
girl’s life — and you know it. So in con-
clusion, if you haven’t seen this video,
where have you been living — under a
stupid rock?

0 0 °
F ° 1' y B 1 13°
0 egnpo C shakes onxeec on ,
Columnist Beall describes how President Obama is treatment of Israel compromises the Democratic Party is strength
A radical newspapers, because of Obama’s treat- “unique opportunity to ‘send amessage’ how it happened. The result is an even more solidly
foreign policy ment of Israel. to President Obama.” Since Obama’s Turner, a New York businessman, Republican Congress, bringing the
decision that Earlier this year, Obama exhorted Is- talks with Netanyahu, many are con- was very critical of Obama’s neglect numbers to 241 Republicans, 192 Dem-
Obama made raeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanya— cemed that Obama is shifting Ameri— in general, but in particular, his poor ocrats and 2 vacancies, but it means
in May has_ hu to reduce Israel’s borders to pre-1967 can support away from Israel. This is treatment of the US-Israeli Alliance. more than this. Even in the more liberal
come back to lines through “mutually agreed swaps.” why Koch endorsed a Republican in a This combined with his support for the districts in the United States, there is not
bite the House Now, in the wake of the Anthony Weiner district that was considered invincibly Defense of Marriage Act made him ap- yet swing-back against the Republican
Democrats in a scandal, New York was given a chance held by the Democratic Party, which is pealing to many local religioiis leaders. Party. In fact, Democratic Party miscal-
New York spe- to tell Obama what they thought, when why there was not much support for the The two local newspapers, the local As- culations have only further placed it in
cial election, they elected Bob Turner, who won the further electoral trouble and point to a
'.,_ in what some election with 54% of the vote. ‘ ‘ general weakness of the Obama Presi- .
  might say is an- The 9th New York Congressional The diﬁference’ New York newspapers Say’ was the dency. Whether these new Republican
‘,  other sign of the District, in general, has a rather high voters will remain with the GOP is dif-
By john pau| Bea” decline of the election turnout, and a Democratto Re- Support ofthe Jewish community that would have ﬁcult to tell, but now is clearly not the
coLUMN.g'T Obama Admin- publican ratio of about 3 tol. The dif— time for another Bar Harbor vacation
istration’s eﬂ"i- ference, New York newspapers say, was generally voted Democrat in that area, for the president, because if this election
cacy. The New York 9th Congressional the support of the Jewish community makes one thing clear, it is that Obama
District, former Rep. Weiner’s district that would have generally voted Demo- has plenty more work to do, particularly
covering areas of the Bronx and Queens, crat in that area. . when it comes to his most outwardly
has elected its ﬁrst Republican in 100 Former New York Mayor Ed Koch, Democratic opponent.ADemocratic an- semblyman Dov Hikind (D), and former loyal voter base. This coming election
years. This earthquake of political sup- a Democrat, said to the New York Sun alyst, in a statement to The Washington mayors Giuliani and Koch all came out will be one for the history books.
port took place, according to New York on September 14 that he found this a Post, states that he still does not know in support of Turner. .
O O
Gettin g to know Jae 1e - O
The Jacqueline Kennedy tapes give the world a look into the heart of a favorite ﬁrst lady, for better or for worse
V W _ It had been as the “most unselfconscious” man she was trying to accomplish.” you can see your husband wants.” Upon litical opinions, you know? His were
-<7  " _i an era of youth had ever met, and goes on to describe In fact, much of what Kennedy had further thought, she continues with an going to be the best.” With the release
‘ ’ '  and opportuni- the near instant dedication that she felt previously considered to be ﬂaws in her example. She speaks of a certain night of the tapes, similar statements have
-'5 ty. After eight towards him. She recalls the late sum- characier quickly became political tools. _when she brought up the Vietnam War surfaced. She can now be heard say-
7 years of having mer nights she would spend translat- The president was not shy about hav- during a conversation with her husband. ing, “One reason I'think women should
 . a senior citi- ing French books simply because he ing his wife speak for him in the native “It was at the end of the day, and he said, never be in politics. They’re just not
zen in the role asked her to do so. When Jacqueline’s language of people whom he addressed. ‘Oh my God, kid, I’ve had that on me all suited to it,” implying later that they are
of President, mother found out about such chores, she » too emotional. Furthermore, Kennedy 
43-year-old insisted that Jack marry her daughter remembers asking her husband once
John F. Ken— immediately. The two announced their St . . 1 th ti. ht h a; about rising feminists of the day, South
nedy delivered engagement on June 25, 1953, and were eppmg m 0 8 SP0 lg may ave appeare Vietnam’s Madame Nhu and famous
his famous married three months later. - - playwri ht Clare Boothe Luce. “Once I
inaugural ad- On January 3, l960,'John F. Kennedy Seamless for Jackle ,Kennedy’ Who’ wlth her grace asked higm why these women, who obvi-
 “ 2 dress, demand- announced his intention to run for Presi- and eve,,._p},.eSeni Smile, iooked more  a movie ously are attractive to men, why do they
By A le Weiss ing that citi- dent of the United States. Stepping into ' have this queer thing for power. And he
Cow M N , ST zens empower the spotlight may have appeared seam- Star ihan a politician 3. wife. said, ‘It’s strange, but it’s because they
themselves to less for Jackie Kennedy, who, with her resent getting their power from men. So
do more for their country. For the ﬁrst grace and ever-present smile, looked   they begin hating men.’ Whatever you
time, the United States would hear a more like a movie star than a politi- call that. And I wouldn’t be surprised if
promise that would nine years later put cian’s wife. Only now, when her voice they were lesbians.” gt
a man on the moon. The Berlin Wall drifts through time on the static records, She could often be heard speaking Span- day.’ And I just felt so criminal. And I - Caroline comments, “That’s obvi-
would crumble beneath the failure of are we able to get a glimpse into what ish, French, and Italian to those who decided that everyone should be trying ously not the mother that I remember ’.
communism. Women would set out to she really felt. “I was always a liability would otherwise require a translator. to help Jack in whatever way they could. later on, who was a huge booster of
abolish wage inequality. Martin Luther to him-. ‘Everyone thought I was a snob “People came up [to me].... They used And that was the way I could do it the women in the workplace.... Of course
King, Jr.‘ would carry out the March on from Newport who had bouffant hair to be surprised that I could speak Eng— best, by making it always a climate of time has moved on and it shows you that
Washington. And, in the White House, and French clothes and hated politics. lish!” Kennedy speaks of a certain trip affection when he came home.” there are really timeless things in here,
there would be a young woman who, And he’d get so upset with me when to Paris, in which she and her husband One particularly striking example of but it really is a snapshot of a world that
with gentle manner and a soft voice, something like that came out. And I’d met Charles de Gaulle, a major partici- her devotion took place during the Cu- we barely recognize.” In fact, towards
would prove to shape the world. say, ‘Oh, Jack, I’m so sorry for you that pant in World War II. “De Gaulle was ban Missile Crisis. “I said, ‘Please, don’t the end of her life, Kennedy would be-
Four months after her husband’s as- I’m such a dud.’ And he knew I loved my hero when I married Jack. And he send me away to Camp David. Please, come an editor and aproponent of wom-
sassination, Jacqueline Kennedy sat him and did everything I could.” really sunk down, because, I think, he don’t send me anywhere. If anything en’s rights. ‘
down with a cigarette and a tape record- When the news came on November was so full of spite. I loathe the French.” happens, we’re all just going to stay As the eight and a half hours of tape
er, and quietly began to tell her story. For 8 of the same year that John Kennedy Despite Kennedy’s hatred, however, she * right here with you. Even if there’s no run out, Kennedy remembers those last
a woman who made a point of declin- had defeated Richard Nixon, Jacqueline managed to charm de Gaulle to such an room in the bomb shelter in the White moments of her husband’s life. “I al-
ing to be interviewed after leaving the Kennedy may have feared that the coun- extent that, upon the Kennedys’ depar— House, then I just want to be on the lawn ways think of our whole married life
White House, such an action could have try’s distaste of her style would amplify. ture from France, he admitted to have when it happens. I just want to be with as renewals of love,” she says warmly. .
diminished the mystery that seemed to However, almost overnight, the young reevaluated his opinion of the president. you. I want to die with you.”’ “Once I asked him, if he could have one
_ surround her. However, Jackie Ken— debutante had become an idol of the John would later be heard making the Of course, it is not unknown that wish, what would it be, if he were look-
nedy knew what she was doing when American public. She remembers, “Sud- public statement that he was “the man President Kennedy was less than faith- ing back on his life. And he said, ‘I wish I
she agreed to record an oral history with denly everything that had been a liability who had accompanied Jacqueline Ken— ful when it came to his marriage. There I had had more good times.’”
lfstorian Arthur Schlesinger. The whole before, your hair, that you spoke French, nedy to Paris. And I enjoyed it.” -was much speculation that he had shared Jacqueline Kennedy’s voice fades
process was carefully planned, down to that you didn’t just adore to campaign, Throughout the tapes, there is an on- an ongoing relationship with entertainer away, disappearing once more into the
the time that the tapes could be released. that you didn’t bake bread with ﬂour up going thread of the loyalty and tender- Marilyn Monroe. But when asked about folds of time. In 1994, the woman who
In an interview with George Stepha- to your amis.... Well, Jack never made ness that the young Mrs. Kennedy felt such things, his wife replied simply, once influenced a nation was diagnosed
nopoulos, Kennedy’s daughter, Caro- me feel like I was a liability to him. Butl for her husband. “I always thought with “Whoever they were, the others, I was with non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, a dis-
line, says, “This wasn’t an interview was. And then when we got in the White Jack...that once he was in control, any- the one he loved. I always knew that.” case that would prove to be fatal. At the
that was accidentally recorded.... She House, all the things that I’d always thing, all the best things, could happen. Kennedy’s daughter had a similar end of her life, a friend read one of the
sat down with Arthur Schlesinger, who done suddenly became wonderful.” In this childish way, I thought I wouldn’t statement, telling ABC in a recent in- cultural heroine’s favorite poems. It was
_ was the preeminent historian of his day, Kennedy’s daughter laughingly recalls have to be afraid.” terview that she “wouldn’t be [J acque- Constantine P. Cavafy’s “Ithaka,” which
and this was for the Kennedy Library. . .. watching cartoons as a child, in the days Kennedy recollects those early days line’s] daughter” if she shared what she he ﬁnished by saying, “And now the ,
And she always told us that she was go- when even the Flintstones were attempt— of her marriage, when the White House knew. journey is over, too short, alas, too short. .

 

 

MONDAY.

SEPTEMBER 19, 2011

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&|ife

. Staniar 0 ens Wlth“AbaI1dOI1”

Barbara Duval is artwork explores t e mysteries ofthe human ﬁgure, utilizing negative space to make a statement

 

 

By Ryan Johnson
STAFF wmrsn

Mysterious ﬁgures populate the art-

work in Barbara Duval’s “Abandon,” J

the Staniar Gallery’s latest exhibit. Her
works provide a fresh and accessible
start to the 2011-2012 gallery season.

“The ﬁgure tells a story, whether
you are aware of it or not,” said Duval
at a lecture for students and faculty last
Wednesday. Her career has consistently
revolved around the human form, from
early drawings and etchings of models
to obscure shapes that she leaves open
to interpretation. ,

Most of the works in the exhibit are
either etchings or limited palette paint-

ings of groups of ﬁgures.

Mystery and layers of meaning are
constant forces in her art, she said, and
help to develop her artwork into a multi-
faceted narrative.

Anthony Kirby, a junior art major,
said the exhibit, “allows you to connect
to art on a more personal level.”

First-year Brian Morrison said, “the
gallery evoked a sense,of suffering in
me.” Christian Kennedy, also a ﬁrst-
year, was “amazed by the way Duval
used simple shadows and silhouettes to
portray the vivid emotions of mankind.”

Kathleen Olson, a W&L studio art

professor, agreed by saying, “Our stu-
dents can learn a lot from studying Du-
val’s powerful imagery and energetic
mark-making.”

The typical work by Barbara Duval is
an abstract, analysis of either a ﬁgure or
group of ﬁgures against a very intention-
al negative space. To Duval, this nega-
tive space — what she called “air” - is just
as important as the subject itself.

It interacts with the subject to create
the visual mood of the entire piece. She
also said the technique of mark—making
was important in creating a “web of sta-
bility” that compositionally anchors her

pieces. This stability holds in place the
ﬁgures that she often depicts in move-
ment.

Though most of the examples she
presented were etchings, she said she
enjoys repeating her compositions in
other media like charcoal or paint. Not
only do you have to “do something a lot
before you get a handle on it,” she said,
but also “different media inform each
other” and give a new lens to the same
subject.

In all of her media, her use of color is
subdued, though she said that “pink is an
underrated color.”

Paintball extravaganza!

Students and stay?’ ﬁre paintballs during

By Paige Gance
A&L EDITO R

Students and staff ﬁred 56,000 paint-
balls last weekend at the campus recre-
ation sponsored paintball tournament.
On Call Paintball provided the equip-
ment needed for the 230 participants,
who all played multiple matches.

RA’s brought their halls, fratemi-
ties and sororities organized teams,
and friends came in groups to face off
against each other in 3 v. 3, 4 v. 4, or 5 v.
5 games. On Call said they preferred to

limit the action to three on three or four
on four because the size of the arena was
not ideal for larger matches.

But often the line grew so long that
ﬁve on ﬁve matches were necessary to
allow everyone a chance to play. For
twelve hours total on Friday and Satur-
day, the pop of paintball guns and the
yelps of hit players echoed off the back
of the science building and library.

The rules were simple, if you get hit

once, even on your gun, then you are
out. One catch is if the paintball fails to
burst, it may hurt more, said one referee,
but you can stay in the game.

Each player seemed to have a differ-
ent strategy. Some sat behind the same
barrier the whole time, attempting to
snipe opponents across the ﬁeld, while
others made mad dashes through the
center, spraying shots haphazardly.

Many participants had never played

the campus sponsored activity on Friday and Saturday

paintball before, but the employees of
On Call would give out advice before
the match started or coach inexperi-
enced players who found themselves in
a tight spot.

— The company, based out of northern
Georgia, brings all the necessary guns,
safety masks, paintballs, and course ob-
stacles. Their inﬂatable barriers dotted
the basketball court-sized playing ﬁeld
located between Woods Creek and the

Duval named Seurat, Picasso, and
Rembrandt as her inﬂuences, among
others. Duval completed her B.A. at the
Pratt Institute and M.F.A. at Yale Uni-
versity. A current studio art professor at
the College of Charleston, Barbara Du-
val has exhibited numerous times and is
included in such collections as the Fogg
Art Museum and Contemporary Art and
Culture Center in Osaka, Japan. “Aban-
don” will be on display through Oct. 6.

science center.
“It was a great space to host this

event,” said Ray Ellington, assistant L

director of campus recreation, “we’ll
deﬁnitely try and utilize it more in the
future.”

Washington and Lee has it’s own
paintball club, headed by senior Robert
Uhlman, which organizes paintball out-
ings throughout the school year.

Staff works While Working out

T henew T rekDesk, a desk on a treadmill, can help W&L employees work on their ﬁtness while getting their work done

By Kelsey Cotter
STAF F wmren

Employees at Washington and Lee
can now work and walk simultaneously
thanks to a combination work station
and treadmill called Trekdesk.

This innovative idea began with Dr.
James Levine of the Mayo clinic and has
trickled down to Washington and Lee’s
campus under the supervision of Mary
Katherine Snead, assistant director of
human resources for work/life Initia-
tives and director of W&L’s wellness
program.

The desk itself costs $479.00 and the
treadmills used for them at W&L come
from the ﬁtness center.

Snead said there are currently three
onvthe W&L campus and that “people
are lining up for them”. The desk will
rotate to different employees so that
more people can try out the set up.

Catherine McElhannon, administra-
tive assistant to the theater department,
made room for the structure in her office
after hearing about the new device.

McElhannon began using the Trek-

   

 ertothe edi:or

 2 the sentiment behind Ali Greenberg’s '9/12' article is awesome, can we
’—  addressing “girl-on-girl crime” without blaming oppressed groups for their own
iioppression? Negativity and competition between W&L women, -- and women all .
ijovergtlie world - can certainly end with us, but it sure as hell doesn’t “start” there.
 Wiuydo you think invented the terms “bitch” and “whore” in the first place? (Hint:
‘ E iit.'wasn’t us, especially since we’re not. usually the ones who get all het up about
' ‘members of our gender “daring” to be aggressive or sexual.) Let’s make a concerted
iteifort to be positive and supportive toward other girls, but let’s not pretend that the

Desk in June aﬁer a simple installation
process. A sleek white structure atop a
regular treadmill, the TrekDesk now
stands next to her regular ofﬁce desk so
she can go back and. forth between the
two.

Her TrekDesk supports a computer,
phone, and other ofﬁce supplies. She
wears regular work shoes on the tread-
mill while carrying out her normal tasks
and plans to walk four miles a day at a
2.4 mile per hour pace, which she says
is a comfortable pace that allows her to
work efﬁciently.

Shana Levine, associate director of
athletics at W&L, also decided to make
the TrekDesk part of her routine begin-
ning in August. Her office ﬁts both the
structure and a regular desk for larger
projects.

Levine says she uses her TrekDesk
when she knows she has at least a ﬁf-
teen minute window available away
from her regular work desk. During this
time she makes conference calls or reads

root of the problem is anything other than everyone’s BFF, the patriarchy.

‘ , anonymous
\*9‘3‘§o_’ s
V, (S
V03’ 0V‘ P‘ -(0 0‘ 0-
. ev v\ 0 2.9 
«W99 x "' c)4~“" 05' 03“
0”‘ g (50 «ya ho Q0? 93 ‘ﬁe’
X, .o.e««,3., “*\.3a\;, aw“ w
5% E‘ 3' 2.6” ‘Log, V0!’ /00’ 9
10”‘ we“
:50‘ \;¢'('

long emails at about a 1.5 mile per hour
pace. Both McElhannon and Levine say
they are pleased with their TrekDesks
and Levine says that in January, when
the TrekDesks rotate to other employ-

ees, she might even buy a treadmill and ‘K

TrekDesk of her own.

IMAGE COURTESY OF GOOGLE

O.‘

IMAGE COURTESY OF SUSAN WAGER

 

    

 

And ma an be   4 +
weekly magic.

  

 

  he Ring-fum Phineeds dedicated .
and dependable wriferstoacover f
ome games, events on campus and
hard-hiﬂing new '
Or, you can come hang out _
with the Phisfaff Sunday

 

nighfs.

   

Because, admit if.fHePhi is  
Hoe one thing you lookforward   *

 

+0 on MondaY,5'      ” 

 

   

THE RING-TUM PHI

07' ' I .

MONDAY,

sports

SEPTEMBER 19, 2011

- 'ALl3XANl)_lEl{ MARAGCDS ~

   

This year’s list of candidates in the American League appears
deeper than in years past, forcing fans to think twice before rushing
to select an obvious winner. A decade ago, fans were able to choose
among the usual suspects like Frank Thomas, Manny Ramirez,
Ivan Rodriguez and Ken Griffey Jr. among a few others. Pick any
name out of that group and it was easy to make a case for him to
win MVP.

":39

S'l‘EPHE1 ’ PECK

“N0 hitter for Verlander through 7,” the text read from my Dad.

It was June 14th. The Tigers were playing the rival Cleveland Indi-

. / ans. And Detroit Tigers starting pitcher Justin Verlander was spin-
ning yet another gem. .

His no-hit bid was broken up with one out in the eighth that

night, but that did nothing to take away from his masterpiece. JV

So what’s changed? There are no usual suspects. What about
Mark Teixeira, David Ortiz, Vladimir Guerrero or Alex Rodriguez?
Can’t they claim that title for the last half decade? No. And that
reason makes it so hard to pick this year’s winner.

The difference lies in the numbers that MVP candidates put
up 10 years ago. They were gaudy. No, beyond gaudy—«obscene.

Sports writers Stephen Peckand Alexander
Maragos go head to head to determine
which Maj or Leaguer deserves to be the
American League MVP this year:

Gonzalez or Verlander?

ﬁnished with a complete game shutout, only giving up two hits
while striking out 12. ’

“The most dominant performance I’ve ever seen,” my old man
said once the game was in the books.

That kind of praise may seem a little over the top, but to those
who have witnessed JV pitch this year, it is entirely justiﬁed. Ver-
lander did not throw a perfect game versus the Indians that night, or

These men who tore apart pitching staffs for the better part of a
decade found themselves a part of a very exclusive club. They were
the only players perennially producing with such obscenity. Such a club no longer exists.

Gone are the days where our MVP candidates churn out a .333, 43 HR, 137 RBI season. I’m

_ looking at you, 2000 award-winner Jason Giambi. You can blame it on the decline of steroids, bet-
ter pitching, new bats, or whatever else you like. This much is clear, the playing ﬁeld is leveling
out. Instead of picking from a group of eight to 12 players in the race, the drop in production forces
the voter to consider as many as 15 to 20 players.

After much self-deliberation, my pick is Adrian Gonzalez. 1 know this might be the year (or
era) of the pitcher, but if Pedro couldn’t win the MVP in 1999, I don’t see a hurler taking it this
year .

Gonzalez has been as steady as they come at the plate, making 201 1 the ﬁfth straight year in
which he drove in 99 runs or more. As of Friday, he was hitting .337 with 26 HR and 111 RBI.

For a little perspective: in 1998, Albert Belle hit .328 with 49 HR and 152 RBI. He ﬁnished

' eighth in the AL MVP race. l’l1 say that again-—eighth! Even if Gonzalez reaches 30 HR and 120
RBI by the end ofthe season, there will be 13 players projected to be within 20 RBI of each other
at the top of this year’s RBI list.

In 1998, that number doubled as the top 13 run producers covered a difference of 40 RBI.

1 think you get ‘my point. Here’s why Gonzalez is this year’s AL MVP...

If the season ended today, Gonzalez would be among the top ﬁve in the league in six major
offensive categories including ﬁrst in batting average and RBI. He is also tied forﬁrst place in
AL Fielding Percentage with “Bargain of the Year” Casey Kotchman at .998. He has produced
throughout this up and down season for the Red Sox. ,

Boston lost its ﬁrst six games of the season on their way to an 11-15 April. They hit .243 asua
team that month, but Gonzalez kept Boston’s head above water, hitting .314 and accounting for 10
ofthe team’s ﬁrst 48 doubles. He then hit his stride in May, batting .341 with nine HR and 31 RBI,
propelling the Red Sox to a 19-10 month. The Red Sox knew that they couldn’t win the champi-
onship in the ﬁrst two months, but they could sure lose it. Gonzalez kept Boston from stumbling
into the dead of summer, and hit .404 in June to fuel a run to the top ofthe American League East.

Gonzalez put up stellar numbers month after month, even when free-agent dud Carl Crawford
was unable to get on base ahead of Gonzalez in the lineup. It’s fair to say that if Crawford had hit
like the Red Sox paid him to, Gonzalez would be blowing away the other AL MVP contenders.
But that’s what MVPs do: when things don’t go as planned, they ﬁnd a way to help the team win.

no-hit them, but he did redeﬁne dominance as the ability to make
major league hitters look foolish.‘It’s something he has done all year
and is one of the main arguments for his MVP worthiness. Verlander has electric_ stuff. He owns a
repertoire of 100 mph fastballs and otherworldy breaking pitches, all of which he can locate with
pinpoint control. And this year, he is simply and spectacularly untouchable. He is far and away the
most dominant player in professional baseball.

Every adjective in the book has been used to try and sum up what everyone is already seeing.
Overpowering. Nasty. Workhorse. Dynamic. Unfair. Perhaps that last one is the most telling. Ver-
lander has been like Danny Almonte in the 2001 Little League World Series: a man amongst boys.
And ifthere is one player in baseball you can say that so easily about then he clearly is MVP.

If you want to look at stats we can do that as well. Verlander has all the numbers to satisfy the
sabermetric nerds (he leads the league in wins, ERA, strikeouts, win-loss percentage, walks and
hits per innings pitched, hits per 9 innings, innings pitched, and games started), but I still don’t
think that’s the leading reason why he should win MVP. It is because he is asked to do so much as
the ace of the Detroit staff, and he always answers.

Detroit is a decent baseball team with some big name players and some even bigger holes. They
should be a .500 baseball team. Instead, they are the ﬁrst team in baseball to clinch their division
and are only three games behind the Yankees for the best record in the American League. They
have Justin Verlander to thank primarily for that.

Every time he takes the mound, Verlander is expected to win. With a 24-5 record, he pretty
much always delivers. 15 times Verlander has started a game following a Tigers loss. 15 times he
has won. Even more impressive is the fact that he has gone at least 6 innings in every single one of
his starts this year. He gives the Tigers a feeling ofinvincibility every time he is scheduled to start.
And that conﬁdence is invaluable. I _

Take Adrian Gonzalez or Jacoby Ellsbury away from the Red Sox and they are still a playoff
team. Take Curtis Granderson away from New York and the same can be said. But'take Verlander
away from the Tigers and you have a mediocre non-contending baseball team. It is as simple as
that. I

The detractors will simply whine that starting pitchers do not deserve MVP recognition. But
when you have a guy who qualiﬁes as the most exciting player to watch this year, a guy who has the
ability to throw a no-hitter every outing, a guy who can throw 100 mph in the ninth inning, a guy
who makes opposing hitters look as ifthey are swinging toothpicks, a guy who has 24 wins and a
guy who has lifted a middling ball club to the AL Central title, then I do not know what an MVP is.

Generals outranked by Colonels  

Football is loss to Centre College Saturday marks the end of a nine game winning streak

By Jayna Johns ,
SPORTS EDITOR

Despite jumping out to a 14-0 lead
just six and a halfminutes into the game,

_ the Washington and Lee football team

fell to Centre College 42-35 on Saturday
evening in Danville, Kentucky, moving
to 2-1 on the season and ending its streak
of nine consecutive regular season wins.‘

The shootout included a combined
891 total yards on offense. The Gener-
als accounted for 450 of those, including
338 rushing yards

W&L found the end zone on the ﬁrst
drive of the game after taking the open-
ing kickoff and moving 67 yards on
seven plays. Senior quarterback Charlie
Westfal found sophomore tight end Alex
Evans with a 19-yard pass to give the
Generals a 7-0 lead only 2:44 into the
game.

The defense held strong on the Col-

onels opening possession, forcing a
3-and-out and giving the ball back to the
offense. W&L put together another solid
drive, this time covering 44 yards in six
plays and capped by a nine—yard touch-
down run by junior running back Sean
Pattwell to put the Generals up 14-0 with
8:34 left in the ﬁrst quarter.

The Centre offense found its engine
in the second quarter, reaching the end
zone for the ﬁrst time 50 seconds into
the second quarter off a one-yard touch-
down run.

The Generals responded with another
touchdown of their own, this one a six-
yard run by junior running back Luke
Heinsohn with just under nine minutes
left to play in the ﬁrst half.

A 40-yard touchdown pass by Cen-
tre put the Colonels back in striking

distance with less than two minutes be-
fore the break, and a 37-yard ﬁeld goal
attempt with seconds remaining on the
clock came up short, sending the teams
intotthe half with the Generals holding
on to a 21-14 lead.

W&L again scored ﬁrst to start the
second half when Heinsohn took off on
a 24-yard touchdown run to put the Gen-
erals up 28-14 with 10 minutes left in the
third quarter.

Centre responded with a four-yard
run into the end zone, and an ill-timed
fumble by the Generals on the ﬁrst play
of their next drive gave Centre excellent
ﬁeld position and the opportunity to tie
the game.

The Colonels capitalized on the Gen-
erals’ mistake, putting seven more on the
board with a one-yard run.

5”‘? I‘

.41 

Tied at 28 with 3:50 left in the third,
the Generals regrouped and marched
down the "ﬁeld with an eight-play drive
that covered 80 yards. Junior running
back Brett Murray broke into the end
zone off an 11-yard run to give W&L its
ﬁnal lead, 35-28, of the game with 43
seconds left in the third quarter.

The Colonels tied the game up again
with a 67-yard run into the end zone with
1 1 minutes left to play, and the Generals
fumbled again on their next possession.
Centre returned the fumble to the W&L
36-yard line, and eight plays later, took
its ﬁrst lead of the game after a ﬁve yard
run put them up 42-35 with 5:43 left on
the clock.

A strong defensive effort by Centre
forced the Generals to go 3-and-out on
their ensuing drive, and the Colonels

"xii "R4/,“.'

. at   .
t  9,,
“iii: 

were able to run out the clock to hold
onto the win.

Murray lead W&L’s rushing attack,
carrying 18 times for 137 yards.and a
touchdown, and also caught three passes
for 45 yards. Heinsohn ﬁnished with 59
yards on 12 carries and found the end
zone twice.

Westfal was 7—of—16 for 112 yards"

and a score through the air while add-
ing 95 yards on 17 rushing attempts. De-
fense was led by junior defensive back
Jake Pelton who ﬁnished the day with 10
tackles.

The Generals will be back on the ﬁeld
this Saturday to take on Alma College in
Lexington. Kickoffis set for 1:00 pm.

Shoot us an email.  
phi@wlu.edu
spicakd I 2@mail.wlu.ed

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19.2011

  sports

ondeck  

MON Tues WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
Football ‘'5 Alma
1 PM
V H b H >ridg:3s\Nater Pioneer Pioneer-
° 9)’ 3 Cl ‘ ‘
6:30 PM aS5IC Classic
Men,S at Eastern V5 Hampton
Mennonite Sydney
, Soccer 4 PM 1 pM
VS
Womenrs at Eastern
Randolph Mennonite
Soccer 4 PM 12 pm
Field - "5
Bridgewater
Hockey 7 PM
Cross Dickinson .
C t ' Invitational
0”” ry 11 AM
Golf /,

 

in the numbers
16  

The age of Lexi Thompson, making her the youngest player to
ever win a LPGA Tour event. Thompson won by ﬁve strokes at

the NAvistar LPGA Classic, shattering the previous age record

that was set in 2005 by then—18-year-old Paula Creamer.

61

The age of Alan Moore, the newest member of Faulkner Univer

sity’s football team and the oldest collegiate football player in
history. Moore played football as a freshman in the 19605 be-
fore heading off to Vietnam for a year. A kicker, Moore has one

year of eligibility left.

1(H3

The number of straight AP Top 25 polls the Ohio State Buckeyes
had been ranked in, a streak that ended Sunday when the team
dropped out of the rankings for the ﬁrst time since Nov. 20,

2004, following a 24-6 loss to Miami.

03h35

The time Sunday morning when the Oklahoma State—Tu|sa
football game ended.The game, which originally was sched-
uled for a 9 p.m. kickoff, was postponed more than three hours
due to rain and lightning. The teams ﬁnal|y'kicked off at 12:16

a.m., and no. 8—ranked OSU pulled out an easy 59-33 win.‘

soapbox

“You know what I'm going to do? Because you never give
me a fair shake, you know that? So I'm going to let you talk
to Victor Ortiz, alright. I'm through. They can put somebody
else up here to give me an interview...You never give me a
fair shake! HBO needs to ﬁre you! You don’t know (expletive)
about boxing! You ain’t (expIetive)l”

-Aﬂarwlnnlngthewacwaltarwawitchaniplonshlpby
controvarsIallvIaiocldr1goutVlau>rOruz,Ha_wMqynraatlier
tumedhlsattarrtlonuaao-year-oldandlong-urneHBO
oommentatorLanyMerclIant.MemharrtstoodhIsground,
aridlrnotibrodiaswhopulledﬂiemapartmieromqyliava
beentwonmtsthatnuit.

"Ribs are tough. It's just hard to breathe,
and talk really. You have to talk loud,
especially on the road.”

-Dallas Oowbws quamrbaokTonyRoIno broken rib

durlmSundq's¢amoa¢alnstthosanFrancIaco49enyI!t
manaaadtnoonunuo playing, loadlnghlsuamtna 27-24

 

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPOR_TS.COM

 

Volleyball continues winning streak after defeating Maryville College Saturday

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

_The Washington and Lee volleyball team
remains unbeaten this season with 12 straight
wins, marking the best start in the program‘s
history — and they are making it look easy.

Ten of the team’s victories have been 3-0
shutouts; the Generals have dropped only two
sets out of the 38 they have played. 1

Their most recent win came against
Maryville College Saturday afternoon in
W&L’s Warner Center. W&L won in straight
sets 25-20, 25-2 1 , 25-16.

Sophomore outside hitter M.A. Boles con-
tinues to dominate the nets, leading the ODAC
conference in kills (162) and coming in third in
hitting percentage (.342). Against Maryville,
she tallied l3 kills.

Senior outside hitter Megan Daily was
right behind her with 12 kills in the game.

The_team recorded 10 service aces, three
of which came from ﬁrst-year setter Corinne
Hemmersbach and another two came from
Boles.

Third in the conference for digs (156),

Field hocke

junior libero Cameron Hill tied Boles for
the team high with ll, and sophomore setter
Meghan Meleski,,who leads the conference in
assists. accounted for 10 digs in the game.

Meleski has 361 assists this season after
adding 32 on Saturday.

Conference play began last Tuesday when
the women travelled to Guilford College.
W&L made easy work of the Quakers, win-
ning the sets 25-l3, 25-20, 25-12.

The Generals hit .257 in the match; Guil-
ford, in contrast, was limited to a .07l hitting
percentage. '

Senior middle blocker Lindsey Dee, who
leads the conference in hitting percentage
(.403), recorded 10 kills while Boles added
nine more. Junior right side hitter Taylor Max-
ey contributed with six. .

On Friday, Hollins University travelled to
Lexington and, like so many others, left with
a 3-0 loss. The Generals took a quick lead and
never looked back, winning the sets 25-6, 25-
l 1, 25-21.

Boles was again a force on offense, notch-
ing 15 kills while also leading the defensive
side of the game with l4 digs and two solo
blocks. »

Senior outside hitter Megan Tomlinson
served up seven aces and contributed eight
digs. ‘

Saturday morning before facing Maryville,
the Generals took down Roanoke College,

also members of ODAC, 25-21, 25-8, 25-11.‘

Roanoke hadjumped out to a 20- l 3 lead in the
ﬁrst set, but W&L pulled togetherjust in time.

The Generals’ dominating defense and of-
fense continued, as the team recorded a .302
hitting percentage while limiting the Maroons
to a .01] percentage.

With the win, the Generals move to a per-
fect 3-0 ODAC record.

W&L will look its 13th win on Tuesday
when Bridgewater College comes to Lexing-
ton. The match is scheduled to begin at 6:30
p.m.

wins, 6 - 2

W&L defeats F rostburg State on Sat., season record even at 3 wins, 3 losses .

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey team
brought its season record up to an even 3-3
with a 6-2 win over Frostburg State at W&L’s
Turf Field on Saturday aftemoon.

Leading the offensive attack was senior
midﬁelder Christina Benedetti, who scored a
goal and assisted on two Others.

The Generals’ opening goal came offa pen-
alty comer when Benedetti and sophomore de-
fender Lauren Boone assisted senior defender
Lizz Dye to take a l-0 lead less than two min-
utes into the game. .

First-year forward Candice Stefanie ex-
tended W&L’s lead to 2-0 after 22 and a half
minutes, but the Bobcats quickly responded by
nettin a enalt stroke two minutes and I2

 

 

seconds later. W&L was able to add to its lead
with an unassisted score by junior midﬁelder

Chelsea Stevenson to take the Generals into‘

the break with a 3-1 advantage.

Frostburg threatened early in the second
half, putting in an unassisted goal after just
over two minutes of playing time. That would
prove to be the Bobcats last goal, however, as
the Generals added three more scores and the

Bobcats were unable to get off another shot for

the remainder of the game. _

Benedetti scored ﬁrst in the second half for
the Generals at the 41:46 mark, and sopho-
more defender lziar Moure further extended
the lead with an unassisted goal just four
minutes later. For the ﬁnal score of the _

Benedetti found sophomore forward Taylor
Zusi to put W&L up 6-2 with nearly 22 min-
utes of play left.

Junior goalkeeper Kirsten Kyne was in
goal for the ﬁrst half and pulled in four saves
while allowing only one shot to get by. Fellow
junior Caroline Sutherland played the second
half.

F rostburg State keeper Maggie Edwards
played all 70 minutes in the net and managed
to record six saves.

The Generals will return to action on Fri-
day" when Bridgewater College visits for a
7:00 pm match.

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

.,

