 

  Uhc6“8ored. I I

OPINIONS/Pa9e?t 

  

prices’.

Scarecrows should be afraid.

I According to one professor, corn is evil
and we should all stop whining about gas

A&L/ page 6‘

 WASHINGTON AND Lisis UNIVERSITY

” THE RING-TUM PHI,

MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS

SINCE

1897

4.

VOLUME CXV,NUMiBER1/6'

W&L’s Beautiﬁc tion Initiative

W&L Oﬁice of Admissions reveals the real reason all applicants are required to submit a headshot

ByCampbe|| Burr
OPINIONS EDITOR

On Sunday, the W&L Ofﬁce of Ad-
missions admitted to implementing a
“Beauty Initiative” four years ago. The
plot was uncovered after suspicion from
other top liberal arts and Ivy League
schools who realized that their incom-
ing students had the same achievement
levels as W&L’s, but were a lot less
attractive. W&L admissions officer,
Howie Looking, created the project after
W&L alums expressed concern that the
school’s increasingly competitive admis-
sions process would compromise the at-
tractiveness of the student body.

The “Beauty Initiative” requires all
applicants to submit a headshot along
with test scores, transcripts, and essays.
In addition to reviewing applicants’ aca-
demic achievements, ofﬁcers rank each
applicant from I to I0 on a “beauty
scale.” Though beauty rankings are not
weighed as highly as grade point aver-
age, admissions officers have admitted
that in the last two years, beauty rank-
ings have had as much weight as high
school extracurricular involvement in
some cases.

Yale admissions ofﬁcer, Anita May
Kover, led the investigation of W&L’s
admissions process. She hired an under-
cover detective to pose as a W&L student
fulﬁlling her work-study requirement at
the admissions oﬁﬁce. While “ﬁling,” the
detective found beauty scales inside each
applicant’s folder. She stole a few and
brought them to her boss. Kover emailed
the W&L admissions team, “We have

Happy Derby Games

“Philanthropy ’’format to rave reviews and staunch criticism

Sigma Chi revamps its

By Frances Everclear
STAFF WRITER

The popularity of the Hunger Games
series, which includes The Hunger
Games, Catching Fire, and Mockingjay,
has exploded on the Washington and Lee
campus, especially within the sorority
community. Deciding to capitalize on
the excitement surrounding the series,
Sigma Chi spent the winter giving a mas-
sive overhaul to their traditional week-
long charity event: starting this year, the
Derby Days will feature a ﬁght to the
death with one sorority ﬁrst-year
crowned Champion of the
Derby Games.

The overall

format

 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

copies of your beauty scales. You’re
busted.”

The W&L team responded, almost
immediately. “We’re busted?'Hope you
put those beauty scales to use!”

Williams’ admissions officer, Hugh
lass, was asked to comment. He defend-
ed the Williams admissions process as
“need-blind and beauty-blind.” He con-
tinued, “We may not have the best look-
ing campus in the nation, but at least we
don’t have the shallowest.”

The W&L admissions team denied
accusations of having a “shallow” pro-
cess, claiming that students are happier
when they are surrounded by prettier
people. “At W&L, students’ happiness
is ﬁrst and foremost,” said May Beeshal-
low, a W&L admissions officer.

To avoid future trouble, the W&L ad-
missions team has decided to announce
all other “secret” initiatives in the works.
The team revealed that in coming years,
they may require applicants to ﬁll out an
additional form to determine whether
they would ﬁt in at W&L;

Washington & Lee University’s Ap-
plication for Admission, Part II would
request basic information, as well de-
tails regarding beer chugging and swing
dancing abilities, and political affiliation.

Even after the huge backlash, the
W&L admissions team has no intention
of doing away with the Beauty Initia-
tive. Ms. Beeshallow commented, “We
are satisﬁed with our process. We look
for students with a ‘good head on their

for the new Derby Days is known, but
some of the details will remain closely
guarded secrets before the Games. The
event will start, much like the previ-
ous version, the ﬁrst Monday of Spring
Term. Four members of each sorority’s
pledge class will be chosen through
what is being called a “mutual selection
process.” First-years will be picked at
chapter meetings and provided a Sigma
Chi mentor to coach

them through

the pre-

 
 
 
 
 
 

shoulder,’ literally and ﬁg-
uratively. The only adjust-
ment we’re considering is
giving the beauty rank-
ings more weight in the
admission decision.”

GPA -

Games. The 24 sorority women will
represent their sorority in a pre-Games
public interview and pre-Games train-
ing before being put into the arena on
Wednesday afternoon. After the start of
the Games, Derby Days will become
a free-for-all; much like the original
Derby Days, rules that arise during the
Games are temporary or will be disre-
garded. Obstacles for the participants
are undetermined as of yet, but frater-
nity members have hinted that skills in
baking themed desserts, keg stands, and

handling greased waterrnelons would

be helpful to survival. Sigma Chi has
decided to keep upperclassmen and
members of other fraternities and
organizations involved by allow-
ing them to cheer on the side-
lines and send care packages
to the ﬁrst-years, which
may include anything
from lettered sweatbands
to emergency Redbulls.
The actions of the ﬁrst-
years will be covered
on WLUR, several live
webcam feeds, and on
Twitter on @theder-
bygames. The money

. e _
Class 1  catholic?
Are you a R I I

ePu 
- es

No

raised by entry fees and structured gam-
bling will be split between the winner’s
sorority’s national philanthropy and the
host’s beer fund.

The reaction to the new Days has
been decidedly mixed. In general, frater-
nity members have responded well to the
idea. “It’s just like the powderputf game
on steroids. I don’t see what everyone’s
getting so upset about,” reasoned junior
Peter Meriwether, while senior Gates
Harkness said, “Everyone loves watch-
ing it. Did you see the Kappa-KD game
last year? Sick, am I right?” Sophomore
Kathryn DeWitt agreed. “I loved Derby
Days last year! Plus, my sorority has the
best class of freshmen. Somebody we
pick is going to win. Ijust might vol-
unteer my little...she’s a champ. The
people complaining are just jealous
they didn’t join a sorority of winners.
Sorry ‘bout it.” F irst-year Ellery Spald-
ing, looking visibly upset about the an-
nouncement, expressed a much different
view. “I’m really nervous about the new
format. I love all the books, but I didn’t
think this would happen in real life. And
I was really looking forward to bond-
ing with my whole pledge class.” When
questioned if she would decline to par-

    
     

    

  
 

ticipate in the Derby Games, Spalding
said, “Well, obvs I’ll do it. It’s real death
or social death so...I guess real death
will be ﬁne.” Fellow ﬁrst-year Mary
Margaret Coleridge added, “I’ve been
training for this since February. I haven’t
eaten in, like, two days and I can still run
for miles without stopping. I hope I get
picked. Plus, you get wear to wear cute
tanks and Norts! Still, the whole dying
thing is kind of terrible. Whatever.”

The drastically altered format has
come under ﬁre from the Panhellenic
Council as well as school officials. Pan-
hel released a statement referring to the
restructuring as “detrimental to the spirit
of sisterhood” and “unfair to sororities
with smaller new active pledge sizes.”
One dean was quoted as saying, “How
were they able to clear this event in the
ﬁrst place? Surely this can’t be legal?”

A representative for Sigma Chi re-
sponded to the controversy with, “The
Games will be regulated by Sigma Chi
brothers to ensure the utmost level of
fairness and respect between competi-
tors. Good luck to all ﬁrst-years, and
may the odds be ever in your favor. Kid-
ding. You’re all screwed.”

I

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
wnsnmsrou & LEE uurvensmr
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2012

IIEWS

 

. the same BOLDNESS

Unemployment’: the ﬁnal solution

Economies Professor introduced lz

By Ernesto Superbius, Ph.D.
G U E s T w R IT E R

Ernesto Superbius received his Ph.D.
in 1985 from the University of Santiago
in Chile. Upon graduation, General Au-
gusto Pinochet and Prof. Milton Fried-
man personally bestowed upon him the
coveted Von Mises Prize in Economics
for his dissertation on “The Enforcement
of Free Markets.” Now a U.S. citizen,
Dr. Superbius holds the Ronald Reagan
Chair in Advanced Economic Theory
and Remedial Arithmetic at Northern
South Dakota Community College. He
recently gave the following lecture at a
joint meeting of the Lexington Libertar-
ian League and the local chapter of Mor-
mons and Evangelicals United for Big
Business, Small Government and Vari-
ous Wedge Issue.

According to the New York Times,
the electronics giant, Apple, has cre-
ated 700,000 manufacturing jobs in
China and other foreign countries, but
only 43,000 here at home. Just before
he died, Steve Jobs bluntly told Presi-
dent Obama that the positions Apple has
moved to China will NEVER return to
America. Another Apple executive add-
ed “We don’t have an obligation to solve
America’s problems.”

From ’my own libertarian perspective,
I think Apple has it right. By having no
obligations to America, the company
made over $108 billion last year—more

- than the budgets of the states of Michi-

gan, New Jersey and Massachusetts put
together. The company’s CEO took
home $427 million in company stock-
-in addition to his $1.7 million salary.
Not a bad Apple!

Like Apple executives, we liber-
tarians don’t have to solve America’s
problems either—unless, of course, they
get out of hand. Mitt Romney recently
said he’s not worried about the poor. He
clearly was thinking of Marx’s Lumpen-
proletariat, the low-class parasites that
live on charity, disability payments and
food stamps. If that’s what he had in
mind, Romney is absolutely right. Our
Lord Himself said we would always
have the poor among us. (He obviously
had in mind the malodorous defectives
who hang out in the restrooms of Grey-
hound bus stations and public libraries.
You’ll never get rid of all of them--not
“even with buekshot,” as we say out
West). = .

What we libertarians and Mormons-
and-Evangelicals-United SHOULD
worry about is the unemployment of the
SUPRA-lumpens, the stratum one level
above the parasites. Why? Because
these people, the cream of the proletari-
at, VOTE! And we want those votes to
support our big business-small govem-

ment agenda.

What we need today is a FINAL SO-
LUTION to unemployment of the supra-
lumpens. In their wisdom, America’s
ﬁnancial leaders have sold off the better
part of our manufacturingbase to China
and other countries~something the elite
of other countries would never DREAM
of doing. We have DARED to move
into the post-industrial age. You have
to admit that that took REAL GUTS
and REAL COMMITMENT to
FREE TRADE! Our leaders
must now be equally gutsy about
solving the resulting problem of
post-industrial unemployment.

Unlike de facto unemploy-
ment, STRUCTURAL UNEM-
PLOYMENT is something
that demands the libertar-
ian’s attention. I am con-
vinced that we can bring

and CONSISTENCY
to this problem that we
have brought the na-
tion’s other social and
moral issues. We just
have to stick to our AB-
SOLUTE ECONOMIC
PRINCIPLES.

According to the
economic theory "of
“comparative advan-
tage,” countries that
want to prosper from in-
ternational trade should
do what they’re really
good at. But what IS
the United States good
at now ‘that we‘ have
given up manufactur-
ing?

The answeris staring
us in the face: WAR, or,
if you like, KEEPING
THE PEACE. Every-
one knows that the U.S.
has the most powerful

military machine in the world. Every
year, we spend roughly $680 billion on
defense, more than the military budgets
of the next ten nations combined. We
have between 900 to 1,100 bases in
foreign lands, outposts that cover some
29,819,492 (rented) acres. Writing in
the “Asia Times,” Nick Turse says that
“the US military maintains an empire of
bases so large and shadowy that no one-
-NOT EVEN AT THE PENTAGON--re-
ally knows its full size and scope.” This
huge investment makes it possible for us
to ﬁght two or three wars whenever and
wherever we please.

Instead of just SPENDING money
on defense, why not use the military to
MAKE money—AND SIMULTANE-
OUSLY SOLVE THE NATION’S UN-
EMPLOYMENT PROBLEM? Here’s
what I propose: Let’s turn the U.S. mili-
tary into the world’s largest, most lethal
MERCENARY FORCE. Yes, let’s rent
out our troops to countries around the
world—and make war proﬁtable for a
change.

In the American Revolution, the Brit-
ish rented 30,000 Hessian soldiers from
Landgrave Frederick 11 of Hesse-Kassel.
This was a win-win situation for every-
one. It saved gallons of British blood
and poured thousands of golden ducats
into the coffers of the German princes.
What were the British doing? They were
OUTSOURCING their war in America-
-just what we did when we hired Black-
water and other private contractors to
help us out in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Unfortunately, political correct-
ness and pseudo-patriotism blind some
people to the UTILITY of mercenary
warfare. Most of our recent wars have
resulted in a horriﬁc loss of blood, trea-
sure and national reputation. It’s time
to let someone else call the shots. At
least then we won’t be blamed for cost-
overruns, friendly-ﬁre, lost battles and
other screw-ups. My mercenariﬁcation
program will transform the army into a
LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY that
will create a much-needed ZONE OF
IMMUNITY around our military and
political leaders.

Here are some mercenariﬁcation’s
other pluses: ’

Mercenary warfare doesn’t have to
be “just.” Once Congress adopts my
plan, a “just war” will become just a
war. Those of you who know something
about the history of economic develop-
ment know that the same thing happened
to the medieval idea of the “just price.”
In today’s capitalist world, a “just price”
is just a price. Thanks to mercenariﬁca-
tion, the old idea of “causus belli” will
be relegated to the history of theology.
Once our mercenaries hit the road all we
have to do is collect the rent!

Like all economists--from Adam
Smith to my own dear teacher, Milton
Friedman--I worry a lot about monopo-
lies. Because a monopoly, by deﬁnition,
is a business with no competition, it is
inefficient and inﬂationary. A

“natural mo-

nopoly,” on the other hand, is some-
thing else. Take your public utilities. It
would be counterproductive to have two
or three electric, gas, water, or sewage
treatment companies serving the same
city. So we choose just one and grant
it a monopoly over a speciﬁc service.
Your local police force is good example.
You wouldn’t want Lexington to have
two or three police departments just so
they could “compete” with each other.
Because competing police forces would
invite corruption and even bloodshed,
they wouldn’t bring costs down. Just
imagine a shoot-out in downtown Lex-
ington between competing police units!
For the same reason, we wouldn’t want
to have competing national armies. We
don’t need THAT kind of “competi-
tion!”

Since the military is a natural mo-
nopolyﬂone that the government must
have and pay for in any case--WHY
NOT MAKE IT AS PROFITABLE AS
YOUR LOCAL SEWAGE DEPART-
MENT?

Many cities are already outsourcing
jobs and applying free-market models
to government. Your city manager, for

(Mubarak didn’t have any oil money to
spend on mercenaries,.but a savvy U.S.
administration could have pried the Suez
Canal away from him in return for a few
battalions).

The much-maligned DICK CHENEY
was actually onto something when he
predicted that, once we had our hands on
the spigots of Iraqi oil, the war against
Saddam Hussein would pay for itself.
Unfortunately, the liberal, nice-guy
Obama administration forgot to send
Nouri al-Maliki’s government the bill!
That’s why we’re still out the $1 trillion
we spent on that war (not to mention the
$9 billion unaccounted for, and the $6.6
billion that was stolen).

TRUTH BE TOLD, CHENEY
DIDN’T GO FAR ENOUGH. We need
wars that not only pay for themselves;
we need ones that will turn a proﬁt. True,
the government would have to put some
“seed money” into mercenariﬁcation.
But doesn’t China subsidize its state-
owned industries? Didn’t Japan and the
“Asian Tigers” do the same thing‘? And
just look how well they are doing!

Critics worry that mercenariﬁca-
tion will result in a high toll in human

Instead of just SPENDING money on defense, why
not use the military to Ill/IKE money—AND SI-
MULTANEOUSLY SOLVE THE NATION’S UNEM-

PLOYMENTPROBLEM?

example, is a good example ofoutsourc-
ing. He is simply a private contractor
paid to do what mayors and other elected
ofﬁcials are supposed to do. The wide-
spread use of city managers makes the
astute libertarian wonder why the rest of
government can’t be outsourced. Elimi-
nating elected positions makes perfect
economic sense. It would maximize ef-
ﬁciency, cut government spending and
expand the private sector.

State universities show how public
institutions can'be used to attract foreign
capital. In recent years, state legislatures
have slashed university budgets by more
than a half. Some have cut back admis-
sions to in-state residents in order to ad-
mit more foreign students whose tuition
is often THREE TIMES HIGHER than
that of in-state students. Some foreign
students even pay an annual surcharge
of up to $2,500. Every year, these
students add some $21 billion to our
economy. If the Grand Poobahs of the
Chinese Communist Party are willing
to pay this much to educate their kids,
think what they would pay to put down a
political uprising! Beleaguered leaders
like Syria’s Bashar al-Assad would be
delighted to rent the Marines for a few

weeks. Muammar Gaddaﬁ, Slobodan
Milosevicand Hosni Mubarak ended
up in the dustbin of history just
be- cause we couldn’t

af- ', ford to help

them.

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

life, that the public will sour on the idea
when the body bags start to come home,
or that people will treat returning veter-
ans poorly.

These objections must be handled
with great sensitivity--but with hard
heads too.

The answers can be found in con-
temporary attitudes toward the military.
Civilians no longer look at soldiers the
way they did years ago in the days of the
draft. In effect, the all-volunteer army
has lifted an enormous burden from the
shoulders of the public. No longer do
we have to fret about veterans’ personal
lives—their post-warjoblessness, home-
lessness,_drug-addictions, post-traumatic
stress syndromes, amputations, suicides,
criminality and sexual perversions. To
put it blunt1y~and we libertarians are as
BLUNT as we are CONSISTENTI--the
responsibility for what happens to sol-
diers has ALREADY BEEN SHIFTED
TO THEIR OWN SHOULDERS.

Think about it! Under mercenariﬁca-
tion, no one will be compelled to enlist.
Mercenaries will sign up because they
want the excitement of ‘foreign travel,
as well as the training, pay and respect
that come from wearing the/U.S. uni-
form. They are the ones who want the

 

is solution to unemployment and American defense spending in his lecture last Friday

ones who will be signing the service
contract--not your average tax-payer!
As everyone knows, A CONTRACT IS
A CONTRACT.

So who IS responsible for what hap-
pens to the soldier? THE SOLDIER
HIMSELF! We’re talking here about
PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY-
-something that all of us libertarians,
conservatives, Mormons and Evangeli-
cals ﬁrmly believe in. This is what made
America great. Taking personal respon-
sibility for our lives is the ONLY way
out of the economic morass created by
our liberal past!

I predict that as our mercenaries be-
gin deploying abroad, the unemployed
will enlist in droves. I also predict that
the mercenaries will have a “multiplier
effect” on the whole economy. Taxes
will come down and incomes will go
up. The middle class, now threatened
by Obama’s paciﬁsm, will ﬂourish once
again. As the business picks up, tax
revenues will pour into the Treasury-
-just as gold poured into the coffers of
those Hessian princes during the Ameri-
can Revolution. The wimps now"call-
ing for cuts in defense spending will
be silenced once’ and for all. Liberal
tax-hikers will be stopped dead in their
tracks. Gratuitous amenities like Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid can
be dismantled. School teachers can be
rehired--even the music teachers. State
parks that were closed during the Great
Recession will be reopened (and then,
hopefully, privatized). The national
debt will not only shrink; I predict it
will disappear altogether. Since foreign
countries will be relying on U.S. forces
to maintain law and order, military bud-
gets around the world will shrink. This,
in turn, will result in greater global sta-
bility and higher proﬁt margins for all.
In short, mercenariﬁcation will result in
what President Ronald Reagan called
“moming in America.” Indeed, the sun
will rise on the whole world!

There’s nothing wrong with being
the world’s cop--if, like doctors, you’re
paid on a fee-for-service basis. But to
police the world without being paid at
a11~THAT’S SHEER MADNESS!

If mercenariﬁcation is NOT adopted,
I’d like to know how we are going to
pay for the world’s most expensive mili-
tary, the world’s most costly health sys-
tem, Social Security and the rest of our
socialist system? What are we going to
do about the national debt? How can we
pay for these things with the paltry tax
revenues generated by the low wages
and chronic unemployment of our new,
post-industrial economy?

It’s high time we conservatives, lib-
ertarians and members of Mormons-
and-Evangelicals-United all started to
think‘ about these things. If we don’t,
the liberals, socialists and fascists will
use them as grist for their own

gov- ernment to pay for their dark, sa- tanic mills. And
col— lege education once that we don’t need!
i they are out. Most \\ Thank
' important: you and
they

are
the

   

   

O

 

 

r.1“t>“""

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY   

REAL ‘PHI.

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS

 Wolfe seminar

AND F0

THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897‘ VOLUMECXV,NUMBERl6

features McCann

Featured author Colum McCann discusses how the voices of Tom Wolfe and many others have inﬂuenced his writing

By Tommy Kent
5 TA F F w R I T E R

The 9th Annual Tom Wolfe Week-
end Seminar, sponsored by the Class of
1951, brought alumni back to Washing-
ton and Lee for a weekend ﬁlled with
literary discussion. This year the event
featured the author Colum McCann who
discussed his award-winning novel Let
the Great World Spin.

For the opening event, Colum Mc- ‘

Cann gave a lecture in Lee Chapel en-
titled “The Art of Knowing the World
through Fiction.” Wolfe, in introducing
McCann, said, “[The weekend seminar]
really is a great honor. I’m trying to think
of a word ‘for it... posthumous. It makes
me feel posthumous.”

While speaking of the merits of Mc-
Cann’s writing, Wolfe said, “I want to sit
down with [McCann] after this and learn
about all of his reporting techniques. I
was spell bound and greatly surprised.
If there is anyone who hasn’t read Let
the Great World Spin, you are in for a
marvelous time.”

McCann followed Wolfe and began
his lecture by describing his childhood
and how he came to be a writer. Mc-

 

COY FERRELL/ staff photographer

Cann said: “So much of everything goes
back to our fathers. My dad was a news-

~ paper editor in Dublin. He used to come

home with books.” These books, includ-
ing those written by Wolfe, inspired Mc-
Cann to experiment with reporting.
McCann said, “As a teenager I knew
somehow that [Wolfe] in particular was
shifting my world view sideways.” He
cited Wolfe’s Bonﬁre of the Vanities as
a specific inﬂuence. “We get our voice

from the voices of others. So much of ‘

my voice has come from the great Tom
Wolfe and my father and other authors,”
said McCann.

Relay raises
over $15,000

By Neil Haggerty
NEWS EDITOR

Students, faculty and members of the Lexington community
walked in the ﬁght against cancer at Relay for Life this weekend
at the Canaan Green. The 394 participants at the event helped

...generate $_l5,l 19'for the American Cancer Society.

Nineteen teams of organizations on campus, including fac-
ulty departments, clubs, fraternities and sororities, raised money

by soliciting donations and setting up food stands and activities

at the  V

 three tearns atthe event were Pi Beta Phi, raising
.-;s,2,49y9,. Keeping HOPE Alive, raising $2,119 and Sigma Nu,
 isirfg $1,907,. Top participants were Robert Uhlman from Sig-
 Nu aI1d‘Ch,ristina and Chuck Winschel from Keeping HOPE
‘ Alive, 0 '
 event lasted from 5:30 p.m. on Friday until 5:45 a.m. ..
I on Saturday and included Zumba activities,‘ rafﬂes, children’s‘
 activities, a Professor shaved head contest won by Mathemat-
 S Professor, Carrie Finch, inﬂatable slides and pillow bashes,
M11sicand' performances by General Admissions, Southern
‘fort, Jubilee, Drew Martin an'd‘the_ Limelights, Washing-

  

  
    
   
 

es and “The Gatehouse.”

The; event also included the tradition of lighting luminaries at
. ,  in honor of loved ones who lost their lives to cancer and
‘hope for those continuing to battle cancer. L

McCann added: “It seemed to me that
the art of knowing the world was not
only in the art of telling, but in the art of
imagining. I began to realize at an early
age that creative reading isjust as impor-
tant as creative writing.”

In a gesture toward Tom‘Wolfe, M'c-
Cann said, “We are an accumulation of
voices. I would not be here but for the
generosity of this gentleman here.”

McCann emphasized the importance
of experimenting with writing and tak-
ing on obscure characters. McCann, in
describing the writing process, quoted
Kurt Vonnegut, who said, “You should
be continuing to jump off cliffs and de-
veloping wings on the way down.”

McCann. said: “I’m somewhat sick
of the world. We need stories. Stories
create what is yet to come. Literature
proposes possibilities and then makes
truth of them. In literature, we are given
evidence of being alive. It is a moral ar-
gument for living in the world and for a
sustained imagination at the same time.”

Returning to the democracy of voices
message, McCann said, “When we en-
ter a story
we enter out
most stun-
ning de1noc-
racy. Every-
body has a
story. Every-
body has a
deep need to
tell a story.”

Since Mc-
Cann cited
his happy
chﬂdhood
as the worst
possible
thing that a
writer could
want, he has
attempted to
live his life
on the edge,
similar to
Wolfe’s rep-
resentation of “leaving the study.”

He has spent months living with the
homeless and working withjuvenile de-
linquents. Inspired by Wolfe’s The Elec-
tric Kool-Aid Acid Test, McCann sug-
gested to his friends that they take a bus
across America when he was in college.
McCann’s friends were all for it, but due
to worrying mothers and other obstacles,

' most of them couldn’t take the trip. Mc-

Cann said, “It went from a bus, to a van,
to a bicycle,” riding 1200 miles across
the U.S. for more than a year.

McCann said: “I had to learn to be at
that edge. In the course of the [the'jour-

.7  - ""}"§.’-“*??*'i‘*‘..

ney], I began to understand the idea of
the democracy of others. The act of get-
ting to know the real world is the art of
losing oneself. It makes me feel acutely
alive.” ’

McCann added: “You don’t write
what you know. You write towards what
you want to know. Tom Wolfe has done
this majestically. You learn things that
you knew but that you weren’t entirely
conscious of in the ﬁrst place. We all
have access to it. When we read a book
we empathize with characters. You can
cry and laugh, and the wonderful thing is
that you can wake up without any scars.”

Later in the speech, McCann shifted
to describe the background behind his
novel, Let the Great World Spin. Mc-
Cann, who has dual Irish and American
citizenship, lives in New York City and
was there when the planes crashed into
the Twin Towers.

On September 11, 2001, McCann’s
father was in one of the towers but was
able to get out. When McCann’s fa-
ther returned home, McCann’s young
daughter saw him. and told McCann,
“He’s burning.” McCann at ﬁrst thought
she meant that his clothes smelled like
smoke until she said, “'He’s burning from
the inside out.” McCann said that it was
at this point that he knew it would be his
job to write a story about 9/1 I.

Let the Great World Spin combines
the “image of creation” of Philippe Petite
walking aitightrope between the Twin
Towers on August 7, 1974, and the im-
age of destruction that is 9/1 I. McCann
said that he wanted to use the tightrope
walk as a sustained image in the novel.

“lfl could do it properly, maybe it
could be about who we are. I was tak-
ing this non-ﬁction event and manipulat-
ing it, just like I did when I was a boy. I
wanted to write about the symphony of
the city,” said McCann.

McCann read three passages from his
novel throughout his speech. From one
passage, he read:“We are all torn be-
tween the promise of doom and the dis-
appointment of the ordinary. We all live
on a tightrope.”

In the novel, McCann’s list of char-
acters includes prostitutes and an Irish
monk. McCann said he enjoys taking up
the lives of his characters. He said: “I
don’t really want to be myself. I wake up
in the morning and look at myself in the
mirror and say do I really have to spend
24 hours with this guy. It is so much fun
to roll away and be other.”

McCann said: “The beauty of lit-

’erature, like Joyce’s Ulysses, like ev-

erything I learned from my father, is its
ability to last. Fiction doesn’t lie. Fiction
shapes things. Literature reveals truth.

1-: -x-.--_-v..-A

Imagined comes from real, and real is
shaped by imagined.”

In application to writing, McCann
said:' “There is a degraded discourse
around ideas of literature and optimism.
I believe we have to go through the dark
to recognize the light. The best optimist
should be a cynic ﬁrst.”

The speech ended and several ques-
tions were asked before those regis-
tered for the seminar weekend departed
to attend the reception outside the Lee
House, followed by dinner in Evans
Dining Hall. The weekend continued on
Saturday morning with breakfast in the
Commons, discussion by W&L English
professor Marc Connor and Sociology
professor John Eastwood in Stackhouse
Theater, 21 book signing and ﬁnally lunch

, in the Lenfest Center lobby.

Professor Connor, speaking of Let
the Great World Spin, said during his
lecture, “The main character in the book
is the city itself, like Ulysses. Time and
history unify. McCann gives expression
to the things that go on beneath the sur-
face.”

Connor, described as the “best lectur-
er at Washington and Lee,” drew com-
parisons between Ralph Ellison and Mc-
Cann’s novel. Connor mentioned how
one ofthe characters in the novel makes
God into a human foe, but that the theol-
ogy of the novel is the opposite: God is
the mystery.

Professor Eastwood described mod-
ernization, our age-segregated society
and how it gives the sense of disconnec-
tion from each other. Eastwood said that
as a sociologist he sees connections that
are hidden from view and that McCann
really exposes this concept in the novel.

Eastwood said, “People experience
535   iii

themselves as disconnected and yet we
are all very closely connected.” "East-
wood mentioned social network charts,
which show the aggregate data of ties
between people, stating that happiness,
depression, political attitudes, religiosity
and obesity in one person increase the
chance of such characteristics in the next
connection. "

Eastwood, linking his speech to the
novel, said, “The vision of people cross-
ing paths does not seem so fantastical,
but seems to mirror reality. Emergent
forms of connectivity in social science
dovetail what the novel does.” Eastwood,
stating that he has no knowledge of the
aesthetics of the novel, said, “Novel and
sociology may be twins but they are not
identical twins.”

After the two professors concluded
their presentations, McCann joined them
to form a question and answer panel. At
one point, a person in attendance asked
how McCann discovered his characters.

McCann said, “I like the idea of the
novelist as an explorer. You set out in
a boat and you have no idea where you
are going. Many times you might ship-
wreck, or head right back to shore with
the wind. But sometimes you find a
Galapagos, full ofa diversity of charac-
ters.”

At the end of the panel, Wolfe, who
was in attendance for all of the week-
end’s events, said, “This has been an
extraordinary weekend. [Professor Con-
nor’s] address was peerless. So Colum,
you should be floating away from here.
You don’t even have to catch a plane.
God bless you all.”

YASHNA NAIDU/0 staff photographer

 

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2012

opinions

 

 

Greek review: Fraternities from a female perspective

Fraternity stereotypes taken to a new level. Ladies and gentlemen, an introduction to the brotlzerlzoods at W&L

By Georgia Robgrtson
c o LU M N I ST

Whether or not you are a part of the
large percentage of the Washington &
Lee community directly involved with
Greek life, you are bound to attend at
least a few fraternity parties during your
four years at this school. With sixteen
different fraternities, there are unique
traits you can ﬁnd within each brother-
hood. So, in Greek alphabetical order, I
present an uncensored female perspec-
tive on all IFC fraternities on campus.

Beta Theta Pi

Frat House Location: Red Square

Off Campus Assets: Pole 1, County
Seat '

Big Parties: Das Klub '

Review: Beta takes brotherhood to
a whole new level. Described as being
“one huge bromance,” they deﬁnitely
take interest in their own. While they
tend to be in emotional relationships with
their fraternity brothers, Betas are gener-
ally nice guys who can hold their own
at a party. They have good cocktail par-
ties on big weekends and welcome pret-
ty much everyone to their parties. They
also give off somewhat of an athletic

vibe with a signiﬁcant amount of basket-
ball and soccer players, as well as repre-
sentation from a few other sports teams.
While they don’t host too many big an-
nual parties, Das Klub is a must and is

pulled off nicely year -after year. While
there are a fair share of jerks in any frat,
Beta seems to keep a low concentration
while.stiIl maintaining fun party guys
who aren’t overly cocky, weird or nerdy.

Chi Psi ‘

Frat House Location: Behind the
BDG Quad

Off Campus Assets: None

Big Parties: Late Night

Review: As a freshman, you are gen-
erally warned to steer clear of Chi Psi,
especially their infamous late night. And
while anonymity may be their biggest
adversary in the social ladder, they sure
can throw one hell of a party where shit
is always guaranteed to get weird. The
fraternity is making a decent comeback
from near extinction but still tends to
send out creepy vibes. Their house is
in the most convenient location since
it’s essentially on campus, making Late
Night all the more accessible. The truth
about Late Night is this: ifyou’re trying
to get weird, you’re going to go, and so
everyone there is down for a good time.
lt’s generally a crazy blackout experi-

ence since I’m positive no one wants
to go there sober. Chi Psi draws crowds
from every nook and cranny of campus.
Kappa Alpha
Frat House Location: Davidson Park

—~——7——-—4~ WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY -~- -—~T—-—

THE RING=TUMPHI-  

MANAGING EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

NEWS EDITOR.

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly_report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
i'nto news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering *
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu. but
is otherwise independent,THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to _

' edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
CYNTHIA LAM

ERIN SCHWARTZ

LAUREN HOWRY
TOMMY KENT
COLLEEN MOORE
STEPHEN PECK
ANNIE PERSONS
SALLY PLATT
ANDREW RENALDO
ANDREA SISO
ERIC WISOTSKY

cov FERRELL
’YASHNA NAIDU

MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

Off Campus Assets: Huffmans, Cab-
ins

Big Parties: Dirty South, Shit Kick-
ers, Beach Party

KA is often not considered among the
infamous “Big 3” fraternities, although
they always seem to be knocking on
the door. While each pledge class has a
handful of Phi Kap/Phi Delt/SAE rejects,
they tend to be your typical meathead-
athlete frat bros. Don’t be fooled by their
lack of country houses, their big draw
parties are always in their basement with
a great band and a gazillion people. As
one student put it, “You are guaranteed
to make out with at least one person at
their parties — although it may be a town-

ness. Having admitted looks is a factor
in their rush process, it’s no surprise that
they generally house most of the heart-
throbs from each grade. They’re another
athletic frat with representatives from
baseball, basketball and football. Their
pledge class this year was deﬁnitely on
the small side, but as long as they don’t
repeat that next year it shouldn’t be a

. real factor. While the Sweet Delts tend to

come off as complete assholes, generally
speaking they are actually nice guys — if
you can get them away from their pledge
class.

Phi Gamma Delta ,

Frat House Location: Jackson Ave
(block behind Post Ofﬁce)

-They don’t throw any particularly mem-

orable parties and tend to have a handful
of hard drug users in every pledge class,
but are generally good for a hang out.
They have a lot of big guys since they
draw from both football boys KA didn’t
want and rugby. Into J a Rule.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Frat House Location: Davidson Park

Off Campus Assets: Hooterville,
Most of Windfall Hill

Big Parties: Toga Party, Paddy Mur-
phy’s, Tequilaville ‘

Review: SAE will hold a pennanent
spot in the Big 3 because they are always
able to ﬁll a pledge class with attractive,
well-off, southern guys — a triple threat

ie or a Veemee”. While
some of them are the
aggressive/predator
type at parties and
they are certainly not
shy about taking you
upstairs for a “tour,” a
decent amount of their fraternity consists
of genuine guys that know how to have
a good time - although they tend to lack
the ability to sweet talk
girls. Also, their fonnal is
Old South. Enough said.

Kappa Sigma

Frat House Location:
Davidson Park

Off Campus
None

Big Parties: Basement
Parties

Review: Luckily for
Kappa Sig, Phi Kap got
kicked off last year and
their fraternity lived to
see another pledge class.
Rumor has it the founding
members and new pledge
class have tried to mesh
but with little to no success
since they are essentially
polar opposites. No great
off-campus houses yet
since they’re still up and
coming, but a would-be-
Phi Kap pledge class is a
promising sign for the fratemity’s social
future. They’ve had a few basement par-
ties this year, which have been success-
ful and met with positive reviews from

Assets:

. girls. However, if they do end up being

the next Phi Kap, the stereotypical ass-
hole lax bro will still have a place to call
home. Joy.

Lambda Chi Alpha

Frat House Location: Davidson Park

Off Campus Assets: Old House

Big Parties: O-Week Old House,
Tropical

Review: Every freshman starts their
W&L career at Old House. lt’s the ﬁrst
off-campus (even though it’s basically
on campus) house that every freshman
can name, know the frat and be able to
navigate to within a week. While they’re
deﬁnitely not at the top of the food chain,
they are really nice, smart guys who
genuinely want you to have fun at their
parties. They’re deﬁnitely host to a large
number of guys with political aspira-
tions, and while some describe them as
nerdy, that’s the extent of bad comments
associated with Lambda. Tropical is by
far their biggest party and always turns
out an absurd goldﬁsh-hungry crowd,
but as the year goes on they don’t follow
through with on-par parties and become
socially indifferent. Although I hear Old
House is always welcome to host those
wanting to party.

Phi Delta Theta

Frat House Location: Red Square

Off Campus Assets: Pumptown, Hog-
back

Big Parties: Jell-O Wrestling, Hal-
loween (Real and Phi Delt)

Review: If you’re looking for a good
party, Phi Delt is usually a fair bet. And
luckily what they lack in the nice guy de-
partment they make up for in attractive-

If you ’re trying to get Weird, you ’re going to go, and
so everyone there is down for a good time.

Off Campus Assets: Sloop

Big Parties: Fiji Islands, Dirty Jersey

Review: Fiji by far has the nicest fra-
ternity house, although it’s underutilized
because it’s off by itself and they don’t
throw any big or memorable parties.
Largely composed of cross country run-
ners and Phi Psi rejects, they are deﬁnite-
ly quirky to the point of bizarre but are
sincerely sweet guys ‘that just don’t get
the social scene at W&L. They deﬁnitely
house their fair share of exceptions, but
for the most part aren’t much to write
home about. Although they don’t have
any big country houses or yearly par-
ties, you can always manage to have a
good time and meet a few nice guys you
wouldn’t have otherwise.

Phi Kappa Psi

Frat House Location: Davidson Park

Off Campus Assets: Cabins, Bush-
wood

Big Parties: Rave, Phi Psi-cadellic

Review: Easily most-improved af-
ter this year’s rush since they got a big
pledge class composed of great guys.
Generally throw good parties and are
easy to talk to and fun to hang out with,
but even their biggest parties of the year
are average at best. Another big draw
back is the amount of petty drama with-
in the fraternity. Still, you will be hard
pressed to ﬁnd a socially awkward ‘Phi
Psi, and if they keep their formal at the
Greenbrier, they are sure to continue
moving up in the ranks.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Frat House Location: Red Square

Off Campus Assets: 9 Tucker

Big Parties: Brights & Tights

Review: PiKA is one of the few fra-
ternities on campus that is hard to stereo-
type. There is deﬁnitely a faction within
the frat of nice, fun guys who just hap-
pen to either.be a little weird or friends
with people who are a little weird. But
an even larger amount of them tend to
be losers who think they are much cooler
than they actually are. With little to no

respect for girls and a drug-related disci- I

plinary past, PiKA is quickly becoming
socially irrelevant. For the handful of de-
cent guys, I’m sorry to lump you in with
the rest since you are worth thirty times
over the collective worth of the rest of
your fraternity.

Pi Kappa Phi

Frat House Location: Davidson Park

Off Campus Assets: Landing Strip

Big Parties: Face Fuck, Bombass

Review: Pi Phi is sort ofa misﬁt mix,
but it strangely "works heavily in their fa-
vor. On nice days you almost always see
them out on their lawn playing corn hole
and just day chayin’ the day away wheth-
er it’s a Tuesday or a Friday afternoon.
They are chill, easygoing guys who are
a blast to hang out with and get to know
without any pressure which stems from
their enthusiasm surrounding drinking
games, such as thunderstruck, which are
easily inclusive and great icebreakers.

almost no girl is im-
mune to. They project
a social elitist attitude
that is either genuine
or a front for their inse-
curities. However, they
throw good parties and
will always be considered “cool”. One
last thing: Coke.

Sigma Chi

Frat House Location: Davidson Park

Off Campus Assets: Cabins, Pole 3

Big Parties: MTV Grind, Filthy Rich,
Derby Days

Review: Although in recent years
their numbers have signiﬁcantly de-
clined, believe it or not, Sigma Chi used
to be a good fraternity. Luckily with
consistently good annual parties and the
tradition of Derby Days they probably
aren’t in danger of extinction, especially
since the guys they do have generally
know how to have a good time. This year
has solidiﬁed their social downturn, and
while Pole 3 parties used to always guar-
antee a fun night, they are now just a sad
turnout of girlfriends and groupies.

Sigma Nu

Frat House Location: Red Square

Off Campus Assets: Wasteland

Big Parties: Shipwreck

Review: SNu is your typical nerdy
nice guy frat. They are in no sense of the
word “bros,” for better or worse. They
put a lot of effort into mixers, which is
always appreciated, and are always ap-
proachable and talkative. Every girl
loves to be treated like a princess, and
at SNu you will.be treated like a queen.
Shipwreck is a fun party and they are
deﬁnitely working towards having a few
more big mixers to draw crowds. You
will also always, without a doubt, ﬁnd
the best drinks here.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Frat House Location: Davidson Park

Off Campus Assets: None

Big Parties: Paint Party

Review: One Question: What the
ﬁick‘? I honestly could name probably
two Sig Eps and have never attended
or known someone who has attended
a party. Probably nice guys, if you can
meet one.

“Skull Society”

Frat House Location: N/A

Off Campus Assets: Pole 4, River
House, Downwind

Big Parties: Miami Vice

Review: Stereotypical frat/lax star.
Skulls are full of themselves, but not
without reason. Although they are
mostly huge douche bags, they are in-
telligently witty and have an uncanny
ability to entertain. They have a multi-
tude of “-isms,” which allows them to
make fun of people to their face without
them knowing. They also have a strong
preference for anything that is “dank.”

-Although not oﬁicially recognized by

the school (or anyone not in the society
itself), they are extremely dedicated to
advertising themselves i.e. turning off
the lights and music at every party and
chanting “skulls” for an uncomfortable
amount of time. Really only two words
come to mind: Douche. Bag.

LEXINGTON LIMOIISINEC. TRANSPORTATION LLC

www.IaxingIoIiIimo.n(-.I

’ (SIIO) lI6|-I||7

IaxingIonIimo@gahoo.com

(SIIO) lI6lI-LIMO

SERVING ALL AIRPORT, AMTRACK I; BIIS LOCATIONS

\

WE ARE THE ONLY LOCALLY OWNED (.1 LEGALLY OPERATED
TRANSPORTATION BUSINESS IN THE AREA

I.icenst'.(I Insurml Iiomlt-.(I

DMII# 829

  

  
 

   

MONDAY,

APRIL 2, 2012

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

opinions

    

_YC)L(): Thank you, Drake

Is an important message becoming a joke? Persons suggests taking Drake is motto to heart and living life to the fullest

“Tell me.
what is it you
plan to do with
your one wild
and precious
/ife?”-Mary
Oliver

“You only
, live once, that ’s
 the motto, ni--a
‘ Yolo >

We bout it
every day, «every
day, every day

Like we sit-
ting on the
bench, ni-—a we don't really play

Every day, every day, f—-k what any-
body say

Cant seem ‘em cause the money in
the way"-Drake

Yolo. “You only live once.” This
phrase, coined by Drake in his recent
song, “The Motto,” has become a com-
mon vernacular phrase almost overnight.
And why shouldn’t it? “Yolo” is essen-
tially just another version of the cliche

By Annie Persons
co LU M N I ST

that urges one to live their lives to the
fullest, because “each day is a gift, that’s
why they call it ‘the present,” and “you
never know if today could be your last.”
These phrases are cliches for a reason,
too—-despite sounding trite and over-
used, it is true that we as humans have
no real control over our ultimate living
or dying. . .so why not live life to the full-
est while you can?

What is disturbing is that rather than
be simply added to the vault of afore-
mentioned cliches, the phrase “Yolo”
has become almost a joke in youth cul-
ture. For example, the other day I was at
a party and overheard a friend wonder-
ing if she should take one more shot...
the response of the person next to her
was “Do it, YOLO!!”...I, for one, am
a proponent of living life to the fullest,
don’t get me wrong, but where does one
draw the line between living vivaciously
and living recklessly? Likewise, there is
even a twitter account now in existence
called simply @YOLOjokes. Examples
of tweets include “reenacting the titanic
scene with rose and jack in a bathtub.

#YOLO” and “trick or treating even
though it’s not Halloween #YOLO.”
While these tweets are certainly intended
as jokes, if someone wants to do some-

thing silly that would perhaps break a so- ~

cial nomi, why shouldn’t they? IfI want
to wear a fanny pack out to a frat party
(seriously though, why did those things
go out of style?) why should I let fear
of judgment by people I honestly don’t
know or care about, or even people I do,
affect me? Yolo has become a sarcas-

_ tic phrase tacked onto the proposal that

someone do something stupid. It is used
to justify in a humorous way an action
that has been deemed by the public as
unacceptable or even just insane. But in
all seriousness, what has happened to so-
ciety when the notion ofliving one’s life
to the fullest has been reduced to joke
form? Am I missing something, or do we
not really only live once?

I’m not saying that people should
live by following their every whim, and
of course common sense is a factor. I am
admittedly the last person you will ever
see shirking responsibility for the sake of

doing something without abandon. But it
is this rigidity within me that makes me
pause to reconsider the notion of YOLO.
Instead of looking at life in such a black
and white way, crazystupidYOLO or
so called ‘reality,’ we should think of

gations to the people in my life and so-
ciety at large. As a freshman in college,
living to the fullest should incorporate
respect for the opportunities offered to
me here—academically as well as so-
cially. In other words, while I won’t go

I, for one, am a proponent of living life to the full-

est, don ’t get me wrong, but where does one draw

the line between living vivaciously and living reck-

lessly?

every act as an opportunity to live life
to the fullest in a way that satisﬁes the
demands of day-to-day life and the de-
mands of enjoyment. I would shudder
to look back on my life and see only an
endless parade of grey days ﬁlled with
studying and nights ‘stayed in.’ Howev-
er, I would shudder equally as much if I
felt I squandered my life away by acting
selﬁshly and without regard to my obli-

Adventures of an au pair

Let’s face
it, the summer
after freshman
year is really
the last year
you can af-
ford to mess
around. After

it’s into the big
' world of intern-
‘  ships, CV-pad-

.é~  .

       

  ‘, q . ding summer
By‘ 53 My i=- an "“P"“‘*'?CeS
COLUMMST and the like. So
what to do with
the last three months of pure freedom?
Well, you could sit around your parents’
house and hang out with your old high
school friends or.....
You could go to a foreign

sophomore year 4

country and have a fun adventure! Spe-
ciﬁcally, you could become an au pair.
Now some would argue that “au pair” is
just a fancy way of saying “nanny” that
is supposed to make the job of watching
small people appear a bit more enticing.
I would disagree. I spent the last sum-
mer in Madrid, Spain, hanging out with
a Spanish family. It was literally the best
summer of my life. Being an au pair is
more than just watching kids for a few
hours a day. If you’re lucky, it can be
educational, fun, and party-ﬁlled. So if
you don’t have plans for the summer yet
here are a few reasons to check it out.

Firstly, the application process can
be really fast. Agencies differ, but it is
totally possible to apply and be accepted
and matched with a family within two
to three weeks. Plenty of time from now
until May.

Secondly, kids actually kind of rock.’
I got matched with a family with one
3-year-old. His name was Marco. I seri-
ously can’t overstate how cute this kid
was. He had huge brown puppy dog

. eyes, was about a foot tall, and didn’t

speak any English. Adorable. Needless
to say he had me wrapped around his
ﬁnger in no time and I actually came to
love playing kid games again. It was like
second childhood. That being said, com-
ing back to school after having spent all
summer with crayons, bubbles, and rub-
ber duckies was a bit of an adjustment.
Location, location, location. This
matters so much when choosing where
to be an au pair. Big cities are the way
to go. While a family may own a love-
ly villa in the country-side this place is
likely to be isolated. So unless you never
want a break from the fam (which you

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
       
 
  

      

   
  

iiliair. =   

I cuinm2.ni,efiwmiii-iiilea2eiliaims;l 

. 

   
 

inane  

 
   
  
  
  
   

 

 

 

  
  
 

 
    

By Andrea Siso I /I
COLUMNISTN

 

 

 

   
   
  
 
      
 
        
   
   

._ ‘I Whereveryou’re going
 for Spring Break,
this is way cooler. /

Christmas in the lfhumbu
A trek to Everest Base Campin Nepal

December 14 -- January 2

’/ I , I07 N Main Street‘
462£000

”Pure Eats is
Lexington’s newest

slice of heaven.”
-The Washington Post (12/30/11)

Premium local burgers, fresh doughnuts,
fries, Homestead Creamery milk shakes,
daily soups and stews...only the good stuff.

-\

wwwchristmasinthekhumbu.com

lacebook.com/PureEatsYu_m

for menu updates, and news

coming soon: beer!

will, naturally), cities are the way to go.

As long as you have that you are pretty-

good to go; most families who get au
pairs are rather wealthy. I lived in a high
rise apartment in the middle of Madrid.
There was a pool right outside our door.

as far as to suggest “laying in a puddle
and screaming ‘I’m drowning!’” or “us-
ing white paint on my teeth so you never
have to brush them again,” I urge you to
find a balance in your daily life, and con-
sider the true meaning of YOLO, jokes

aside. Wear your fanny pack out. Aﬂer

all, you do only live once.

Looking for a summer of travel, child care, and partying? Columnist Sally Platt thinks you should be an au pair

time I stayed out till 6am, congratulating
me on “ﬁtting in” and “adjusting to the
Spanish way of life.”

All this being said, this is not for men.
Agencies don’t accept them because
families just don’t want them. I guess

My family was ecstatic the ﬁrst time I stayed out till

6am, congratulating me on ‘ﬁtting in” and “aajust-

ing to the Spanish way of life.

It was a ten minute walk to Sol, the Pra-
do, Retiro, and the Royal Palace (basi-
cally the highlights of Madrid).

Another great reason to go au-pairing
is the language factor. Countries all over
the world have au pair agencies (al-

though they are more common in Eu-
rope). So whatever language you are
trying to learn, you can become really
ﬂuent from a summer of doing this.
Many families will speak little to no
English so picking up on the language
is really an imperative. That being said,
you hear it non-stop so it isn’t hard. I
came back practically ﬂuent in Span-
ish. '

Families in Spain, Europe, and I
hope everywhere else love vacations.
This means you go on a lot of vaca-
tions. I went to the Mediterranean coast
one week, Santander for another, and
even made it down to Africa for a bit.
Luckily for me all the aunts and uncles
of the kid, Mafco, came along too.
While they were all oohing and awing
over how cute their little nephew was
I got loads of free time torlie on the
beach and sample the ample nightlife
that Spain is so famous for.

People in Europe love partying.
Even old people. There is absolutely no
taboo over drinking or staying out all

night. My family was ecstatic the ﬁrst

 iIIIll=l£l=l=Ii ll 

aprons haven’t quite made it across the
gender divide yet. The only male au pair
I met was, shall we say, a little more than
south of pink.

So if you want a sweet summer ﬁlled
with new people, parties, and adorable
small people you should apply to be an
au pair. You’ll have your language re-
quirement in the bag and not be bothered
by your parents telling you to “get a job”
all summer. Adventure is there for the

taking!

7

\\ \\lll\lilll\ \\l) I ll l\l\l l\'\| l)
Rclviil-li\.iii \l(|«l'\l i-|\\\'|ilHill

www.alvindennis,.com

MOCK CONVENTION CONGRATULATES

WINNER or THE
2012 STOREFRONT DECORATING
COMPETITION

FINE MEN’s AND LADIES’ APPAREL
TUXEDO RENTALS & sALEs
STUDENT CHARGE AccouNTs
CARRY BARBOUR LINE & MoRE

540.463.5383
‘Thanks to all contest

102 w. Washington St.

 

  

 

 

   

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

APRIL 2, 2012

  arts&|ife

 

MONDAY,

0

Energy issues, addressed

Professor lectured last Tuesday on the future of energy and how we can invest now

By Colleen Moore
5 TA F F w R I T E R
“The IQ of people drops about 20
points when they are talking about en-
ergy,” joked Professor Jim Kahn at the
opening of his lecture last Tuesday night.
Kahn said a coordinated policy to ad-
dress future energy use should be based
on four ideas:
1. Quit crying about gasoline prices
2. “Drill baby drill” is not an energy
policy
3. Corn is evil ,
4. End the use of coal in the next ten
years

Energy use is one of the most press-
ing problems of the 21*‘ century and we
must begin making difﬁcult and compro-
mising choices for the long run now.

In order to begin to frame the discus-
sion about energy policies, Kahn said, we
need to recognize the role of government
in facilitating research and development

as well as technological innovation.

“With a problem as vexing as the
energy problem, with solutions as com-
plicatedas the energy problem, we need
policy,” said Kahn.

’ Kahn’s comprehensive plan to ad-
dress our energy problem rested on sev-
eral issues.

First, with any change we make or
any technology we improve upon, there
is a possibility ofirreversibility.

“We are stuck with the negative con-
sequences of the old technology, even
if better technology comes along,” said
Kahn. One example of this is the “drill

baby drill” policy, which results in ir—'

reversible increases in atmospheric con-
centrations of greenhouse gases. Even
sources of alternative energy, including
hydro-power and nuclear power, have
long lived environmental costs.

The second issue is diversiﬁcation.

There will always be capacity con-
straints with any policy. Kahn suggests
diversifying our energy portfolio to re-
duce this limitation.

The third issue Kahn talked about
revolved around extemalities, which are
the unintended consequences of our en-
ergy use. Unfortunately, these extemali-
ties are huge — global climate change,
environmental problems and even na-
tional security. For every $500 billion
dollars spent on the military, the social
cost per gallon of gas increases about ten
additional dollars.

The other points Kahn spoke on were
the directionality of wealth and car-
bon, greater innovation potentials, the
sequence of the effects of our choices
and ﬁnally, alleviation of poverty. Kahn
pointed out that in the last five years we
have doubled our estimates of solar en-
ergy limits, but we still need to be aware

of the consequences of our decisions.

“Our choices in the short—run are go-
ing to affect our options in the medium
and 1ong—run, and our choices in the
medium run will affect our option in the
long-run,” said’ Kahn.

Professor Kahn’s recommendations
for a policy that addresses each of these
points involves correctly pricing fossil
fuels, investing in alternative technolo-
gies and developing partnerships with
other countries. “The future of the global
planet depends on what the rapidly in-
dustrializing countries are doing,” said
Kahn. The United States can’t simply
deal with these issues domestically — the
energy problem is a global problem.

More speciﬁcally, Kahn believes that
moving to biofuels is a real possibility.
United Airlines and TAM Airlines have
both experimented with this recently.
We also need to invest in rechargeable

hybrid cars and penalize the destruction
of ecosystems while rewarding carbon
cycling and sequestration. Kahn argues,
“We need to make it costly for people to
convert ecosystems.”

The key is to think long-tenn and
not expect immediate payback of en-
ergy investments. Many of our energy
actions have social costs that we don’t
fully recognize. Moving forward with a

structured and coordinated policy plan ‘'

requires the aid of the government to
sponsor research and development for
technological innovation and for expan-
sion our energy options.

How can we afford to do all this?
Kahn responds, “How can we afford not
to?”

Spotlight on a student director

Student directed “Two Rooms ” involves Mindbending and the entire W&L Theatre department

By Lauren Howry
5 TA F F w R IT E R
For the first time ever, the Washington
and Lee theater department and Mind-
bending, a student organization, have
joined together to present a play. “Two
Rooms” by Lee Blessing will show to-
night and tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the
Maslansky Rehearsal Hall.
Mary Rodriguez ’l3, theater major
and vice president of Mindbending, di-

rects the play with a crew and cast made
up of both faculty and fellow students.

It is atypical to have a student direc-
tor, because it’s like trying to juggle with
no hands. Mary said, “Directing is a lot
of responsibility. You are in control of
every aspect of the play, but not directly.
So you have to ﬁnd a way to shape it all
without stifling it.”

But Mary isn’t putting on a one-
woman show. She has a cast of talented
actors to help bring Blessing’s work to
life: Jeni Pritchett ‘l2, Jesse Mozingo
‘I3, and two ﬁrst-years, Nick Lehotsky
and Caroline Crichlow-Ball. They have
all contributed hours of effort to bring
this production to fruition.

It is a play that tugs at the audience’s

nerves as it delves into the emotional

I fallout of a hostage situation in Beirut.

As Mary describes, “The show is very
sad--but cathartic--and very relevant to
what’s happening in the world today”.
The plot is wrapped in political motiva-
tions thatspeak to a broad audience.
The entire show is a collaborative
effort by the Theatre Department to

show support and openness to hands-
on learning experiences. All the behind
the scenes action, including costumes,
lighting and publicity, is being done by
pairs made up of faculty members and
students.

No tickets are necessary to attend the
show.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

  UNIVERSITY STORE

UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS

need more

CASH FOR SPRING BREAK?

Finzlr/eed exams? Before /vending /eeme,
bn'ng_)/our books to dye E/rod Commons Atrium

CASH for your books!

Saturday,April7..............
Monday thru Friday, April 9 — 13.

I (Walk away with up to 50% of of thenew price in CASH.)

Help W&L provide more used, lower priced books for future terms.

. Buyback will be available in the Elrod Commons Atrium for 8 days!

Thursday  Friday, April 5 & 6. . . . . . . . . ~ 9 a.rn. — 6 p.m.
 10a.m.—4p.rn.
9 am. — 6 pm. I '

>'\

 

 

I

  ' Men's swim coach

0

 

MONDAY, APRIL 2,2012

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

ANDREW RENALIDO

Between ﬁnishing term papers and preparing for ﬁnal exams,
this is one of the busiest times of the year for students. In addi-
tion to caffeine and the promise of an upcoming break, sports are
keeping me going. That’s because April is thankfully the best
sports month of the calendar year.

Let’s start with March Madness. After watching our brackets
go to shambles during the hectic and always enjoyable ﬁrst few

 
 

E

sports

S'l‘El’llEN PECK

For a sports fan, I don’t know how much better it can get than the
month of October.

It’s an interesting argument. On one hand, and as Ricky Renaldo
so eloquently put it, you have April with the Masters, the NFL draft,
MLB opening day, and NBA and NHL playoffs. Being from Michi-
gan, April is also the month where the sun actually begins to show its
face after another dismal and seemingly endless winter. So that’s nice.

rounds of the tournament, we are ready to a crown a tournament
winner in April. We look forward to the best players cementing
their one-year legacies and laying the groundwork for Nike to re-
release their college jerseys as cool collectibles from their “ama-
teur” days. The ﬁnal contestants will hopefully treat us to some
spectacular plays that will feature prominently in future YouTube
compilations set to epic music. This is April’s appetizer.

What’s the best sports month of the year?

Andrew and Stephen debate which month is
better in terms of sports, April or October.

But the month of October is the one time of the year when you
physically do not have enough TV’s to watch every sporting event
that is on.‘

First off, October belongs‘-to Major League Baseball. Baseball
usually manages to cram all three rounds of its playoffs in October,
resulting in some of the sport’s most memorable moments when the
games matter most.

We then move to the Masters. Cue CBS’s commercials with
sappy piano chords and Jim Nantz reminding us that this is a tra-
dition unlike any other. The history, azaleas and green jacket make the Masters the best golf
event of the year and a reminder of why sports and beautiful spring weather are a great match.
If golf is not quite your thing, the major league baseball season also starts around the same
time. With everyone starting the year on level ground in the standings, opening day is always
full of excitement and optimism. The start of baseball season is also a reminder that summer and
lazy days in the nearest ballpark are just around the corner. It means that SportsCenter will be-
gin to feature an obnoxious amount of baseball highlights as well, but this is a small concession.

knows that the playoffs are like a new season with higher stakes and chippier action. The best
players start performing at the peak of their powers, the most rugged players start growing the
gnarliest beards (in hockey’s case), and coaches start doing more awkward in-game interviews
with Craig Sager (in basketball’s case).. It’s incredibly’ entertaining, and there are games to
watch every night.

Unfortunately there’s no football in April, but we do get treated to the NFL draft. Besides
being Mel Kiper’s piece de resistance, the draft is also a well of hope for fans of every franchise.
Will that quarterback that your team is drafting lead his teammates to greatness, mediocrity, or
ruin? We usually never know the answer until several years down the road, but we still love
digesting analysis that less than half of the time proves to be correct.

If that’s not enough for you, the Champions League of European soccer plays quarterﬁnal
and semiﬁnal matches in April. If you’re not familiar, this competition features the best club
teams in Europe. The ﬁnal is the Super Bowl of club soccer. The possibility exists this year that
Barcelona will play archrival Real Madrid in the ﬁnal. This would be like Duke playing UNC
for the national championship in basketball, if Durham and Chapel Hill were cosmopolitan cit-
ies that fought on opposite sides of a civil war less than 100 years ago.

April thus brings not only a multitude of sports action, but very meaningful sporting events.
It marks the culmination of some sports’ seasons and the exciting beginning of others. So as
you get back to your mountain of schoolwork, rest assured that the best sports month of the year
is here to help you cope.

As we get further into April, the NBA and NHL playoffs begin. Any fan of these two leagues!

Don Larsen’s perfect game. Kirk Gibson’s hobbled pinch-hit
home run. Bill Mazeroski’s walk-off bomb to lift the Pirates over the
Yankees. All iconic October moments. .

Reggie Jackson’s heroics in the 1977 and ’78 playoffs earned him the lifelong distinction of Mr.
October. Mr. April just doesn’tihave that same ring to it.

October also owns four (sometimes ﬁve if we are lucky) weekends of professional and college
football. For a nation that decidedly revolves around football, this is nirvana, and something that
April lacks. -

Last October, we saw the Lions beat the Bears on Monday Night Football and start 5-0 for the
ﬁrst time since I956. We saw surprisingly hot starts by the Bills and 49ers. We saw the Packers roll
through the entire league. We saw Jim Schwartz and Jim Harbaugh almost get in a ﬁstﬁght. And we
saw the emergence of some guy named Tebow.

In the collegiate ranks, last October gave us a host of upsets (Auburn over South Carolina, Wake
Forest over FSU, UVA over Georgia Tech, GT over Clemson, Texas Tech over Oklahoma) and memo-
rable games (Michigan State’s hail mary to beat Wisconsin, Oklahoma blows out Texas in the Red
River Shootout, Stanford’s epic triple-overtime win over Southern Cal).

And of course with all this football, -comes tailgates, fantasy football, endless Tim Tebow talk, Lee
Corso swearing on the College Gameday set, Erin Andrews, and NFL Redzone.

Just for good measure October marks the beginning of the NBA season, allowing us as fans to
once again direct our unwarranted but wildly intense hatred at LeBron James, listen to Charles Bark-
ley destroy the English language, and watch Javale McGee do something unbelievably dumb.

The NHL season also begins, but the good people here in Virginia are probably more excited about
the four NASCAR races in October than they are about watching Canadians and Russians ice skate.

Although October marks the end of summer, it also brings us the best holiday of the year: Hal-
loween. '

Although W&L may not celebrate it as well as other larger state schools do (for reasons that the
gentlemen ofthis school understand), Halloween at its very essence, is an incredible holiday.

What other time can you dress up as a superhero and get free candy from neighbors‘?

Never. The answer is never. -

There is nothing like October.

resigns

' Coach Shinoﬁeld intends to pursue other professional opportunities

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

 

Washington and Lee’s men’s swim

I’ team coach Joel Shinoﬁeld ofﬁcially re-

signed last week.

Shinoﬁeld ﬁrst came to W&L as a
student. He graduated as a biology major
in 1994. He returned less than ten years
later after becoming W&L’s men’s swim
coach and the director of aquatics.

Shinoﬁeld told Generalssports.com, “I
am grateful to Athletic Director Jan Ha-
thom, former Athletic Directors Chuck
O’Connell and Mike Walsh, as well as
President Ruscio for giving me the op-
portunity to coach the sport I love at my
alma mater.”

Shinoﬁeld has made the most of his

I opportunity since his return in 2003. In

his very ﬁrst year he won the Bluegrass
Mountain Conference Coach of the Year.
Other accolades include being a recipient
of the American Swimming Coaches As-

sociation Award of Excellence in 2008,
as well as coaching W&L to Bluegrass
Mountain Conference championship vic-
tories on four occasions. I

This season his team placed fourth at
the BMC Championships. Many of his
athletes moved on a qualiﬁed for nation-
als. That group placed 16'‘ overall in Indi-
ana two weeks ago. Three athletes earned
four separate individual All-American
certiﬁcates while three separate relays
teamed ‘up to earn All-American certiﬁ-
cates as well.

Shinoﬁeld has said that he has been
honored to coach his athletes at W&L for
nine years.

_ “They have had a great deal of success
in and out of the pool,” Shinoﬁeld told
Generalssports.com. “I’m proud of the
way that they achieved their goals.”

enema went: tum:
animate, t7".aa.m.t 

Have you stopped by
Career Services
forhelp with:

Plans for Summer
Practice Interviews
Résurnés 8 Cover letters

Career Services

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

sports

 

MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2012

in the numbers
6 /

The total number of weeks that the New York Knicks expect
Jeremy Lin to miss due to a meniscus tear. Lin, who injured his
knee in a recent game versus the Detroit Pistons, is going to
have surgery next week. He is expected to miss the rest of the
regular season and is only expected to return this season if the

Knicks make a run in the playoffs.

#

The total number of ﬁrst place votes out of a possible 40 that
Baylor women's basketball player Brittney Griner received to
win The Associated Press’ women's college basketball Player of
the Year award. Second place went to De|eware’s Elena Delle

Donne who received two of the remaining ﬁrst place votes. The

voting occurs before the women's NCAA tournament begins.

3:48

The total amount of time that the Kansas Jayhawks were lead-
ing in their Final Four game of the NCAA tournament on Sat-
urday night. They defeated Ohio State 62-59 and will face the

University of Kentucky in the ﬁnal on Monday.

105

The age of Allene Wynn who celebrated her birthday by being
a guest of the Los Angeles Lakers at their game versus the New

Orleans Hornets.

——————+
soapbox  

“This is my 10"’ world championship and I
can’t really describe how it ﬁnally feels to
reach that dream. Deep in my heard I knew
I had a chance to win. I trained so hard and
I have beautiful programs, my main goal
was to show how much I love ﬁgure skating.

- 25year-old Carolina Koslnor afinrmnnlngthe wom'en's
woridflgunskaﬂnguuo. Lastyaarshepiaoedthird and In
2008shewonihesliwrmedal,fmmS|.com

“I am 100 percent committed to building
the Bobcats into a contender and have no
plans to sell the team. ”

— Michael Jordan, maiorlly ownder of the
Chanotte Bobcats, after it was reported on
Sunday that he is thinking about selling the
team due to their poor perfonnance this
season. So far they have the NBA's worst
record at 7-43.

SPORTS EDiTOR

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team allowed just two goals on their way to
defeat ODAC opponent Randolph at Wildcat
Stadium on Saturday.

The Generals led in nearly all aspects of
the game. They outshot the Wildcats 54-12,
grabbed 24 more ground balls, and won 18 of
27 faceoffs.

As a result the Generals led on the score-
board after 60 minutes of play. The ﬁnal score
was 2 1 -2.

Washington and Lee struck ﬁrst with two
early goals by junior attackman Mac Means.

By Eric Wisotsky
5 TA F F w R 1 T E R

The Washington and Lee baseball team
came out on the losing end ofa pitcher’s duel
on Wednesday, falling to Bridgewater College
by a score of 2-0.

Despite allowing only one run through sev-
en innings on the mound, senior pitcher Jody
Davis was charged with the hard luck loss.
The 22"‘ ranked Eagles pushed across their
run in the top of the sixth inning. Two singles
and a walk loaded the bases for Christian
Armstrong, who lifted a ﬂy ball to left ﬁeld to
score Jonathan Mason from third base.

Bridgewater would add an insurance run in
the top of the ninth by way ofa two out single
by senior catcher Devin Snow.

The Generals’ bats were quieted by
Bridgewater starter Jonathan Lucas. The se-
nior southpaw allowed only two singles in
seven innings of work. He was followed by
freshman lefthander Corey Armentrout, who
earned the save by pitching the ﬁnal two
frames. Armentrout held the Generals without
a hit and surrendered only one walk.

At the plate, the Generals were led by ju-
nior third baseman Chris Nault and senior
center ﬁelder Mike Decembrino, who each
went 1-3 with a single. Junior shortstop Jona-
than Stutts ﬁnished the game with three walks.

The Generals returned to action on Satur-
day afternoon as they squared off in a double
header against Randolph-Macon. The ﬁrst
game began at 1:00 p.m.

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse
team went 3-0 this week in ODAC play. They
played both Sweet Briar and Randolph on
Tuesday and then won at Virginia Wesleyan
on Saturday.

The Generals traveled to Sweet Briar for
an afternoon contest that they won 23-2. They
were led on the scoreboard by three who
scored three goals apiece. Sophomore Mer-
edith Lavin and seniors Maddie McKaig and
Alli Shearin each got three past Sweet Briar
goalies ﬁrst-year Caroline Baker and sopho-
more Megan Link. Four other Generals also
found the back of the net multiple times.

Sophomore "Olivia Hurt and junior Jessie
Edington scored the lone goals for the Vixens.

For Washington and Lee senior Jennifer
Linder and ﬁrst-year Cara Mulligan split time
in the net,,allowing one goal in 30 minutes of
play apiece. A

Immediately after the victory, the Generals

ondeck

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday

Women’s Tennis

The Wildcats responded with a goal from ju-
nior midﬁelder Jon O’Hara in the ﬁrst quar-
ter, but they were unable to answer any more
of the Generals’ assault until another goal by
O’Hara in the fourth quarter. Between Wildcat
goals, the Generals scored 18 goals over the
about 47 minutes of play.

Means led the way for the Generals. Means
scored ﬁve goals and grabbed six ground balls.

' Just 3 of the shots for the Wildcats were on
target. First-year goalie Warren Berenis made
the sole save for the Generals while playing
the ﬁrst half. Sophomore Dylan Florig did not

re-boarded the bus and rode to their 7:00 pm
game against Randolph.

The Generals won handily again for the
second time of the day. They beat Randolph
21-2.

Washington and Lee scored 15 in the ﬁrst
half, before cooling a little bit and netting six
in the second.

First-year midﬁelder Taylor Klevenz
scored one in each half for Randolph to be the
lone Wildcat to score. -

Six Generals found the back ofthe net mul-
tiple times. Shearin led the way with four while
sophomore Katie Hagen scored three times.
Senior Christina Benedetti, McKaig, sopho-
more Margaret Klein, and ﬁrst-year Catherine
Klienedinst scored two goals apiece.

The Generals continued ODAC play on
Saturday when they traveled to Virginia Wes-
leyan and won 16-5. After the third ODAC
victory of the week, the Generals are now 5-0

Generals slay Wildcats

Means scores ﬁve en route to victory
By Leigh Dannhauser '

face a shot while playing the third quarter and
fellow sophomore Patrick Jennings allowed
one goal while playing the fourth quarter.

For the Wildcats, senior Kevin McCracken
played the full game in goal. He stopped 17 of
38 shots that he faced.

The Generals are now 6-6 overall and 2-2
in the ODAC. _

q Washington and Lee will play their next
game at 7:00 pm on Wednesday when they
host 13th-ranked ODAC opponent Roanoke.

Washington and Lee outdueled by Bridgewater

Generals get just two hits in pitchers ’battle

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

W&L stays undefeated in ODAC

Women 3 lacrosse wins three in one week

in the conference and 9-3 overall.

Washington and Lee ﬁnished the ﬁrst half
up just three, but the team was able to score
ﬁve unanswered goals en route to scoring ten
in the second half.

Mulligan allowed three in the ﬁrst half and
just two goals in the second as Washington
and Lee took a commanding lead.

Once again the Generals were led by the
strong performances of Benedetti, who scored
two goals and had game—high four ground
balls, McKaig, who scored a game—high four
goals, and Lavin and Shearin, who scored
three goals apiece.

Junior Taylor Harding scored a team-high
two goals for the Marlins. Senior Michelle
Mace spent a little over 40 minutes in the

net, allowing ten goals and saving four. Se- '

nior goalie Brittany Macknew saved two and
allowed six goals in a little less than twenty
minutes of play.

 

Men’s Lacrosse

vs Roanoke 7 pm

B a s e b a I l at Bridgewater 4 pm

vs Ferrum 5 pm

vs EM 5pm

Men’s Tennis

Riding

ODAC Champs

iHSA Zones

G o l f at Piedmont Spring invite

t Piedmont Spring invite

Women’s Lacrosse

at Bridgewater 4:30 pm

 

O

 

