  

'\V/‘ ii».
'\‘,'”\'«.r_)s"I

"1
,1

if

   

    traditidn mater?    

I

“OPINIONS/pagez  

1-‘

More Americanthan apple pie.

I  Generals swimmers left the Division III
I    NCAA Championships as All-Americans. 7

SPORTS / page 6

  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY    

THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS AND*FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECXV,NUMB_ER18

Liberal Arts connects with Ads

AdLibs oﬂers students an outlet to build careers in advertising, marketing and PR with a Liberal Arts education

By Neil Haggerty
N E w 5 E D ITO R

With careers in Advertising and other
related ﬁelds increasing in popularity
with students, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity will be hosting its second AdLibs
conference to connect a Liberal Arts edu-
cation to these careers from March 29-30.

According to the AdLibs website, the
conference will allow students to learn
about-advertising and other careers in-
volving persuasive communications.
Students will have the opportunity to
hear from alumni working in advertising
related ﬁelds and learn about the courses
at W&L that are related to these careers.

“Not everyone is cut out for a job at
a big bank or ﬁnancial ﬁrm and I think
W&L students have become more aware
of this and have started to consider other
options,” said Katie Hatﬁeld ’l2. “The
conference aims to bridge the gap be-
tween majors and show that careers in ad-
vertising, Public Relations and marketing
are not speciﬁc to those with majors in the
C-School.”

“Perhaps most importantly, students
from all classes and majors across cam-
pus will see reflected in alumni how a
strong liberal arts educations will prepare
them for success in persuasive communi-
cations and consumer engagement,” ac-
cording the to W&L AdLibs website.

C-School Professor Amanda Bower
said, “Mass Communications and Busi-
ness Administration are probably obvious
examples of majors suited to possible ca-
reers in advertising. However, I do think
students would be surprised to ﬁnd out
the types of majors and expertise suited
to advertising.”

These other majors that are all poten-
tial building blocks for advertising ca-
reers include psychology, sociology, an-
thropology, religion, philosophy, english,
theater, music and studio arts, according
to Hatﬁeld.

“Ad careers require critical thinking,
an ability to assimilate new information
and form original ideas based on that new

information. Given our small environ-
ment [at W&L], you are also used to lots
of criticism and getting better,” Bower
said.

Bower said that the idea for the con-
ference started with students asking ques-
tions about how to build connections
between their education at W&L to both
professors and alumni who are involved
in ﬁelds related to consumer engagement
and persuasive communication.

“It had started to reach a point where
I couldn’t handle all of the needs of our
students, so last year we had a few alums
come back and sit on a panel about what
agency life is like,” said Bower.

At last year’s conference, small group
interviews were conducted with agen-
cies including Euro RSCG, which hired
alumni including Courtney Berry ’05 and
“realized the quality of our students and
was interested in perhaps hiring more,”
added Bower.

The schedule for the 2012 AdLibs con-
ference includes career navigation panels,
where students will learn how to appro-
priately plan out their careers while at
W&L as well as panels on speciﬁc careers
in advertising and the types of agencies
that graduates can work for. The confer-
ence will also include career development
workshops to help students “package and
present their resumes, cover letters and
job interview and networking skills,” ac-
cording to go.wlu.edu/adlibs.

Speakers at the conference include
Keynote Speaker John Zamoiski, Chair-
ment and CEO of Bottlerocket Marketing
Group, Hunter A. Applewhite of Domin-
ion Resources, Don Hogle and Stephanie
Mansey from Euro RSCG, Brad Haugen
of Scooter Braun Projects and Silent Me-

dia Group, Gerardy McKee of Starcom ' ,

MediaVest Group, Will Chamberlain of
Condé Nast, and Mary Tomkins Ritter
and Sarah Helms from the Martins Agen-

cy.

I!

Merchant gives Stein lecture

History Professor uses his dissertation on Laurence Keitt as a starting point for a lecture on his wife, Sue Keitt

ByTommy Kent
STAFF WRITER

History Professor Holt Merchant
gave an endowed lecture on the topic
“Sue Keitt: Real Life Scarlett O’Hara?”
in the Northen Auditorium last Thursday
at 8:00 p.m. ‘

President Ken Ruscio said that “the
faculty are the core of what W&L is
about” and that Martin ‘74 and Brooke
Stein set up the endowment in order to
recognize an accomplished scholar and
exceptional teacher.

Professor Ted Delaney, the introducer
and head of the history department, de-
scribed Merchant as “one of the truly
beloved professors on W&L’s campus.”

Merchant said he arrived at his lec-
ture topic as an extension on his disserta-
tion on Laurence Keitt, a South Carolina
congressman who served from I853 to
1860 and “ﬁre-eater” whose “rhetoric
got him ‘in a lot of ﬁghts.” Laurence
courted Sue Keitt, who became the topic
of his lecture.

Merchant said: “If you historians
are expecting a historic point, there isn’t
one. I ’m not here to reverse the claims
of previous historians. I think it is good
social history. It is a good story.”

Sue came from a prominent, wealthy
family that owned 120 acres and 150
slaves. As gathered from the only exist-
ing photograph, Merchant said, “[Sue]
was a remarkably attractive person.
Flashing eyes. Magniﬁcent form. Ac-
knowledged beauty.” . .

Merchant added, Sue wasn’t “at all
eager to ﬁnd a husband, and especially
not Keitt.” Merchant said that part of
the evidence suggests that she had had a
previous engagement, but that she even-
tually married Laurence Keitt.

After Sue and Laurence had been
married for only 6 months, Sue was al-

ready complaining and writing long let-
ters expressing her fears and frustration
about life in Washington D.C. She said
in a letter sent back home, “I don’t like
Washington. I want to rest, ride, and
fatten up and keep you and father com-
pany.”

Merchant said it was clear that her-
“transformation from sought-after
Southern Belle to dutiful wife was far
from complete.” By mid-December
1859 Sue was writing, “I detest Wash-
ington. I have never fancied politics. I
am tired ofold John Brown and the black
Republicans.” - I

According to Merchant, during their
courtship, Laurence Keitt had pursued
her “aggressively”; she only accepted
after his ﬁfth try with the condition that
he resign his seat in Congress and travel
throughout Europe with her. When they
got back, Laurence would become a cot-
ton planter.

iMerchant said that Laurence “re-
markably agreed,” even while Sue had
called off the marriage several times.
It was during the “furor caused by the
caning of Sumner, that she broke off her
engagement” completely and didn’t see
Laurence for two years, Merchant said.

Merchant described how Laurence
tried to forget his lost love back in D.C.
by his attendance of endless balls with

‘ an endless number of beautiful belles.

However, Sue _did not forget about Lau-
rence and after two years wrote to him
and eventually married him. After trav-
eling Europe for ﬁve months Merchant
said Sue “was ready to settle down in
Paris for serious study.” Merchant said
that Sue thought Laurence should avoid
the “little disputes” that were taking
place at the capital and did not want to

go back to D.C.

Merchant, prompting laughter from
the audience, said, “The country was
blowing itself to bits at this point, and
she called these ‘little disputes’?”

Back in Europe, Merchant said that
Laurence offered to let Sue stay but
she refused and returned home, bitterly
disappointed for having sacriﬁced her
dreams to the “god of politics” as she
phrased it. “The life of a wife of a ﬁre-
eating Congressman was anything but
pleasant. She complained of boredom.
She hated D.C. She refused to visit Con-
gress because she said, ‘I fear I’ll catch a
bullet in the head,”’ said Merchant.

Merchant said, “Sue was not your
stereotypical Southern Belle. She was
beautiful, but she did not have a head
full of fluff. She was intelligent.” Mer-
chant said that she encouraged Laurence
to write about more moving matters, and
that she “invariably tried to get [Lau-
rence] to be more careful.” Laurence
himself wanted to write a history of co-
lonial South Carolina.

After declining an offer for a meet-
ing with the President, Sue said, “I have
no fancy for the story-telling old man.”
However, Sue later met President Bu-
chanan and said he had “one of the most
quizzical faces,” having an eye disorder
that caused him to cock his head.

The President described Sue as “the
most cultivated, fascinating woman in
Washington,” said Merchant. He added
that Sue “absolutely loved her conquest
of Washington society,” even though
she described the city as “full of rowdy
congressmen and insipid dancing young
men.” ‘

According to Merchant,,Sue even-
tually visited the Capital building, and

said: “Was this disorderly mob really the
Congress of the United States, the as-
sembled wisdom of a nation?” Sue did
eventually develop an interest in poli-
tics to the extent that she endorsed her
husband as the ideal running mate with
Stephen Douglas. Merchant said Sue
believed that “Douglass could win back
the South only by putting an ultra on the
ticket.”

Merchant said that like Laurence, Sue
wanted not to save the Republic but to
break it up. Sue wanted Keitt to be on
the Democratic ticket as a springboard to
be president ofa new Union.

None of her hopes, however, came
to fruition. The Democratic Party split,
giving Lincoln a presidency that “made
secession unavoidable,” Merchant said.

Laurence became bored by his posi-
tion in the Southern government, said
Merchant. Spurred by his desire for
“glory on the battleﬁeld,” Laurence
formed an infantry division and defend-
ed Charleston harbor for a large part of
the Civil War until he was called to ﬁght
at Cold Harbor where new battle tactics
did not work well with his idealized vi-
sion of “drawing a sword on horseback
and charging,” Merchant said.

However, Laurence lined his brigade
in battle formation, charged straight
ahead, and was mortally wounded. After
Laurence’s death, Sue disappeared from
the record except" for two instances, ac-
cording to Merchant.

Merchant said the first instance was
after she was forced to swear an oath to
the Union in order to keep her land. He
said that he stumbled upon the second
instance in a major collection of letters
in the South Carolina library 35 years
after having written his dissertation on

Laurence. Merchant said, “Siie was alive
again.”

In 1878, after Sue’s father died, she
became determined to hold onto the fam-
ily land. Merchant said that it is at this
point that the “Scarlett O’Hara bit comes
to the fore.”

Sue borrowed money from a nouveau
riche Irish businessman and bought back
the house at an auction. Merchant said
that she “set off to restore [the land] to
its antebellum prosperity before Sher-
man came and destroyed everything ex-
cept the house.” The Irishman, however,
loaned her the money at l8 percent inter-
est and Sue began to miss her payments.
When the Irishman pressed her, Sue told
him, “I will kill myself and I will come
back to haunt you into your grave.”

Merchant said that amazingly Sue
persevered and even increased the pros-
perity of the land. She borrowed money
to lure black tenets and became an un-
usually good plantation owner, treating
the black tenets well. She even some-
how found money to educate her daugh-
ter and almost married her daughter off
to Glover Cleveland, a “fate worse than
death” Merchant said, describing him as
the most boring President in history.

Merchant said that Sue Keitt’s estate
came to be worth a quarter of a million
dollars, which is remarkable when con-
sidering that she had been penniless be-
fore the Civil War and later, as a result of
the war, became a widow.

“She made herself into a real life
Scarlett O’Hara and I she proved she
didn’t need Rhett Butler to do it,” said
Merchant.

 

 

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

opi

I1

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012

Why should you go to AdLibs?

Interested in advertising, marketing, or public relations but not a business major? Sounds like AdLibs is for you

By Katie Hatﬁeld
COLU M N IST

AdLibs is the Advertising and Liberal
Arts Conference here at W&L on this
coming Friday, March 30"‘.

This conference will showcase sever-
al alumni that have returned to talk about
the advertising, marketing, and public
relations industries and the many career
paths that are available within them as
well as workshops in which students can
meet with alums one—on-one for career
advice and resume/cover letter review.

The main goal of AdLibs is to show
that you don’t have to be a business ma-
jor to get involved in these fascinating
and rapidly growing industries. Agen-
cies don’t just want to hire a room full of
marketing majors (which is a good thing,
since we don’t even have one at W&L).

They look for people of all majors and
skill sets in order to understand the con-
sumer and create better advertising.

I think it sounds awesome, and here
are the top ﬁve reasons why I’m going
to attend and why I think you should too:

1. Find out more about the market-
ing, advertising, and public relations
industries through firsthand experi-
ence.

There’s nothing better than Ieaming
about the ins and outs of a career from
people who actually are a part of it. This
is the kind of information that you can’t
get out of a textbook or a class.

2. Meet and network with alumni.

Almost all of the AdLibs present-
ers are W&L grads, and because we are

W&L students, you know we can never
get enough of networking with the alum-
ni. Beyond that, however, the lineup is
stacked with cool people, cool jobs,
and cool life experiences. I mean one ‘of
them worked for the circus for six years.
That’s pretty neat.

3. Disband the myth of“Oh, you’re
a slightly unconventional major other
than Business Administration. What
are you going to do with that?”

AdLibs will allow those who at-
tend to explore different career options
other than the ones that seem obvious.
It can be difﬁcult to answer the skepti-
cally asked “what are you going to do
with that?” question. Especially if your
answer isn’t ‘graduate school’ or ‘teach-

ing.’ But AdLibs is here to help.

4. Participate in‘ something that
brings the entire campus together.

Who doesn’t love a little camarade-
rie? Since Mock Convention ended, I
know I’ve been hankering for something
else that would bring everyone on this
campus together more than Leybum on
a late Sunday afternoon. AdLibs will
bridge the gap between majors so that
those who haunt the science center,
C-School, or Lenfest can all mix and
mingle with one another. It’s a beautiful
thing.

5. Make your Friday productive.

Meet some talented people. Learn a
few things about fascinating industries.
Talk to some kids in your grade you

wouldn’t normally talk to. Get valuable
career advice. F eel fulﬁlled this coming
Friday.

I know I feel good about myself any
time that I’m actively doing something
for a few hours that’s not planning my
outﬁt for that night or poring over Pinter-
est for the umpteenth time.

Check out the website, go.wlu.edu/
adlibs, to sign up and ﬁnd more inforrna-
tion, the schedule of events and a list of
presenters.

Join the event on Facebook: Wash-
ington & Lee University Advertising
and Liberal Arts [AdLib] Conference.

&L was cooler ﬁve years a O

Minus the implementation of the Cinderella rule and the dubstep-craze, Bullitt argues W&L has undergone ew changes

For the most
part, Washing-
ton and Lee
has a weird re-
lationship with
tradition. Stu-
dents, faculty,
and alumni all
see tradition
A as a part of the
Washington and

 

Lee existence.
g ’ j _ K It’s a ‘ selling
83; Stocltton Bullrtt pom to new
CD L” H N I 5 1, members of our

prestigious club,
and it’s a personal point of pride for
the majority of current members. How-
ever this inherent allegiance to tradition
among W&L members causes some con-
ﬂict within the school.

Everyone who has any relationship
with any college institution loves com-
plaining about stuff. Professors and ad-
ministrative members bemoan the mor-
als of their clients, and anyone who has
met an eighteen - twenty-two-year-old
knows that he or she loves whining about
everything from the Nnamdi Asomugha
signing to Invisible Children’s frighten-
ingly close ties with the Ugandan gov-
ernment to the quality of the drank at
parties. It’s just what we do. So, if you

talk to pretty much every member of the
W&L community, he or she will ﬁnd
something that is wrong with the way
W&L currently functions. "At the same
time, pretty much every member of the
community will agree that W&L’s rich
and vibrant tradition makes it superior to
most other schools in the country. Here’s
the problem, most of the things people in
this community complain about (frater-

— nities, the party scene, the fourth ﬂoor of

Graham-Lees, etc.) are direct products
of W&L’s rich tradition. Basically, we
want things to change for the better, but
we also believe that tradition at W&L
has made everything good the way it is
now. \

Since this is by no means an exclu-
sive phenomenon to W&L and it’s been
going on for quite a while, humanity has
developed a pretty nice ﬁx to this con-
flict. All you have to do is say that things
were better way back when before the
new members came in and screwed ev-
erything up. By using this form of think-

ing, you can still complain about how .

rotten your surroundings are while also
honoring Tevye’s favorite word.

Using this form of thinking is espe-
cially vibrant at W&L and is most com-
monly used by seniors and directed to-
wards freshmen. During rush in 2008,
I was led to believe that W&L around

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RlNG—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty.
parents and alumni. Ourgoal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting. we aspire.
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RlNG—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu. but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450.
TELEPHONE: (540)458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

2004 and
2005 was
~——}—— WASHINGTONANDLEEUNIVERSITY ——?— a magi-
cal place
THE RING-TUM PHI- 
~ hazing
(a.k.a.
MANAGING EDITOR JULIANNA SATTERLY boys be-
NEWS EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY ing boys)
OPINIONS EDITOR CAMPBELL BURR was ram-
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR PAIGE GANCE pant,
SPORTS EDITOR LEIGH DANNHAUSER ciasses
COPY EDITORS ERIN SCHWARTZ andhome-
" workwere
STAFF WRITERS :'/l'\$|CEKi1D'(,)|lr\\I”\lB(;lé|E.l\lTZTO Optional’
JANEY I=u_GATE  ‘Eire
KATIE HATFIELD
TOMMY KENT spectacles
COLLEEN MOORE *0 be‘
ANNIE PERSONS h01d um‘)
ANDREW RENALDO them-
PATRICK SMITH selves
CATHERINE TINNEY most
RACHEL URBAN c1ose]yre-
semblin
BUSINESS MANAGERS MATT GOSSETT Baccha_g
DAVID WILSON n-a1,a.The
DISTRIBUTION STAFIF EFIJI/|;(r3lNS|MMYPESROSN fun level
KANE THOMAS °f.th.e 1”"
strtutron
wassome-
' thing that

CLASSIFIEID

we freshmen could only imagine. How-
ever, since those glorious years when
“no seriously you could’ve hooked up
with any chick you wanted,” the admin-
istration has enacted its Top Secret Plan
to systematically rule out fun at W&L.
As a result, the fun levels at W&L have
seen logarithmic declines over the past
few years only to level off at Davidson
or even worse, Swarthmore levels of fun
sometime in the next two or three years
(i.e. around-the time the current fresh-
men are seniors).

When I became a senior, I Started tell-
ing this same story to younger students
at parties. As a senior, it’s easy to see the
change for myself. I was here three and
a half years ago, and so I’ve had a large
[enough range to View substantial change
in this institution. Professors have been
here longer, and I’ve heard many “this

tended three years ago, not because the
W&L itself is all that different, but rather
because you are the one that’s changed.
Obviously, this is self-evident and me
explaining it makes this column seem a
lot like the end of a Nickelodeon show.
Still, I think it’s a relatively important
point. This school has not profoundly
changed in the time that I’ve gone here,
and it’s strikingly similar to the school
that many alumni attended. It’s just that
our viewpoint of the whole situation has
changed.

Take the Speaking Tradition at W&L
as an example. Alumni and professors
constantly lament the death of the speak-
ing tradition on W&L’s campus. To them,
back in the day, students would always
go out of their way to say hello to each
other on campus regardless of social

statute or animosity between members. I

This school has not profoundly changed in the time

that I ’ve gone here, and its strikingly similar to the

school that many alumni attended. It s just that our

viewpoint of the whole situation has changed.
 

place isn’t the same as it used to be”
rants from them as well. I was all ready
to express these feelings in a nice little
comeback article. It had a pretty catchy
title: “How admissions and administra-
tion are changing W&L from a good
school on Forbes to a good school on
US News & World Report.” Trust me,
it would’ve made you totally forget that
I completely skirted writing a fraternity
rankings article this year. Only when I
started really thinking about writing this
article, I kept ﬁnding holes in my argu-
ment. Although I would really like to be-
lieve that this current freshmen class is
a bunch of bland goodie two shoes who
don’t really know how to throw down
and hang out, that’s simply not the case.
Like most senior members of this com-
munity, I was blinded by having a differ-.
ent relationship to the school than I did
when I was a freshman.

Since all of us students are going
through some form of puberty, it makes
sense that our lives drastically change
during the four years of college. Further-
more, the point of college is to change
or at least challenge you in some way,
so there’s bound to be a difference be-
tween your senior self and your fresh-
man self. So, by the time you become a
senior, of course you are going to see a
different institution than the one you at-

Nowadays, students can’t look up from
their damn cell phones to even acknowl-
edge the presence of other human beings
in the institution. That’s a fun thing about
which to complain, especially if you’re a
big Rodney Dangerﬁeld fan, but in real-
ity, the Speaking Tradition has arguably
gotten better at W&L over the years that
I have attended. Despite the fact that stu-
dents have wonderful gadgets in which
to stay in tune with everything that is
happening in the world while still play-
ing Draw Something, students at W&L
actually are better than most other kids
our age at saying hello to each other on
the Hill, and in my experience, it’s the

professors and administration who are

usually the most reluctant to return a
greeting on the hill. Only it’s much more
convenient for adults on campus to com-
plain that student aren’t living up to the
tradition that they themselves don’t re-
ally have to abide by.

The same goes for students though.
Parties aren’t much less chill then they
used to be. If someone still wants to rage
on Friday night, he or she still can. The
one or two fraternities getting in trouble
per year rule has stayed relatively con-
stant. Classes don’t seem to be that much
harder or easier than they used to be.
Yes, all these situations aren’t identical
to what they were in the past, but they

are not so radically diﬂ°erent that they
bear constant complaint.

There are only two real changes that
I have observed in student life over my
time at W&L. The ﬁrst is that parties
tend to end around midnight instead of
two in the morning. This is a direct result
of the town of Lexington’s 2010 effort to
make parties end at midnight, and, hey
look, they won that ﬁght pretty easily.
Once LexPo decided that it was neces-
sary to start raising hell once the clock
struck midnight, the Cinderella rule
started going into effect quickly. I’ve
already written about this plenty, so it’s
not worth going into the whole morality
of the deal, but over the last few months
as a result of this Cinderella rule, LexPo
has been relatively fairer in their arrests.
Now, when I say relatively, I mean rela-
tively, and they may just be making up
for the egregious acts they committed in
the ﬁrst couple of weeks of this school
year, but I have been hearing many less
complaints about LexPo lately. Yes, the
Cinderella rule did kill off Wednesday
night party nights and ragers can’t go
as late as they did a few years ago. That
has changed, but there are still late night
options, and you can now safely register
for classes on Thursday morning and ex-
pect a passing grade. It’s not great, but
there are worse things.

The only other real change in the stu-
dent body I have seen is in music choice.
Most parties throw in the obligatory pop
and country songs throughout the night,
but outside of those songs, mostly elec-
tric and dubstep music is played. Back
in the day, rap was the music de jour of
most parties. We have inserted Skrillex,
Avicii, and Coyote Kisses over the vi-
sionary minds of Kevin Rudolf, Kardinal
Ofﬁshall, and Jay Electronica. I’m pre-
posterously offended by the way these
new dubstep head have no respect for the
calming melodies of hip hops ﬁnest like
Lil B the Based God and Waka Flocka
Flame, but that’s just me.

Still, other than music and party
closing times, the school has not really
changed that much. The students are
relatively similar, although we do have
a better football team, and the social and
academic life is a lot like it has always
been. Parties are fun, classes are hard,
people get away with cheating when
they bring a case to an open trial, etc.
Life will go on in a pretty similar fashion
at W&L to the way it did ﬁve years ago.

So, in the end, things change, but they
don’t really change. You’re welcome for
wasting your time with this article. But,
remember, if Payton Manning can go
to Denver, causing Tim Tebow to go to

HOUSE FOR RENT

3 BR, 3 private BA house, 107 E. Preston
Street, Lexington, available 6/1/12, W/D,
deck, parking, walk to W&L/town, $1,320 +

utilities per mo, 1-yr lease, 1 mo. sec
(540) 383-7035 Marc Gingerelli (W&L ’98)

 

I

 

 

 

9

MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012

 

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

opinions

 W&L student fashion: who’s calling the shots?

Rachel Urban encourages women to wear what makes themecomfortable, rather than whatthey see in advertisements

   
    

Barbour

I jackets, rain
boots and leg-
gings. Fash-
ion trends are
widespread

on the W&L
campus, and
I have fre-
quently heard
people com-g
plain about
the lack of
fashion di-
versity as a
result. How-
ever, there are more stressing issues un-
derlying our wardrobe uniformity than
what you simply see on the surface level
at W&L. To bring these to light, I en-
courage us to take a step back and look
at a larger cultural context. Inaddition
to these complaints about a lack of fash-
ion diversity, I frequently hear assertions

Byﬂachel Urban 4

CDLUIINIST

Are environmentalists and economists at a stando .

Not according to Katie D ’Innocenzo. She argues that the renewable energy ﬁeld oﬂers opportunity for job creation

This sum-
mer, while
sitting around
a game of
Monopoly
with my fam-
ily in Cape
May, NJ,
the topic of
the environ-
ment versus
the economy
came up. As I
viciously col-
leoted an ob-
scene amount
of rent from my 16-year-old sister (I’ve
always had a knack for Monopoly), my
dad chuckled and said, “This is why l’ve
always said you would make a great
economist.” I smiled triumphantly and
left it at that. Then my older brother
chimed in, asking how I was planning

Anal zin
Do opposigb attracg

Recently, I
was browsing
Pinterest with
a friend and
found a link to
a picture of a
grandiose wed-
ding cake. The
cake was dis-
played with a
piece already
cut and posi-
tioned sugges-
tively toward
to camera to
provide optimal
viewing of its layers of thick, rich butter-
cream countered by what was undoubt-
edly moist, ‘liuffy yellow cloud of cake
within. Being college girls, a discussion
of weddings and craving for a piece of
cake naturally followed the discovery of
this enticing link. I casually mentioned
that my favorite part of the cake is the
lfrosting; in my mind the perfect ratio of
frosting to cake would be around 3:1.

ByKatie D"|nnooenzo
ccuumusr

 

Byhnnie Persons
CCILUMMIST

eating

Hard to say.

that other cultures outside of the US
are terribly oppressive, since they force
women to wear more modest clothing.
While this might seem alien to us, I must
ask, is our culture so very different from
others?

In all cultures, there are speciﬁc so-
cial inﬂuences that affect what people
wear. Whereas in other countries it
might be harder to wear less clothing, it
is often the case that it is harder to wear
more clothing in our current fashion cul-
ture —just look at the images in adver-
tisements. The media often show images
of “the perfect woman.” She is tall, tan,
super skinny, and wearing clothes that
show off her body in the sexiest ways
possible. Because that’s what the mar-
ket says, right? “Sexy sells.” But while
very few can live up to this standard in

real life, the average woman is trying to

emulate her — buying the clothes, the
makeup, and planning the diet.
Eventually,vthose fashion trends reach

on being an “environment hating econo-I

' mist” with my double major in environ-

mental studies and economics. Just a
side note: He swims at Texas on a schol-
arship, so he’s not the brightest light on
the tree, but he made a statement I think
a lot of people tend to believe: that sav-
ing the economy and saving the environ-
ment are two opposing ideals and cannot

us at W&L and become norms. For ex-
ample: “the leggings trend.” During my
sophomore year, many people started
wearing black leggings without anything
on top of them. When women wear these
leggings, you can really see all aspects
of their lower bodies —— I mean every-
thing. As this trend became widespread
on campus among women of all body
types, I had the unfortunate experiences
of seeing women who do not realize
their leggings are not thick enough as
well as women drawing unwanted atten-
tion from male students, I often wonder
if these women really do like this fashion
trend, or if they are just going along with
the rest of the student body.

In reality, the vast majority of women
are not stick—thin models, and they do
not need to feel pressured into wearing
sexy, tight, or revealing clothing. But
since we place expectations on ourselves
and each other to conform to fashion
norms, peer pressure becomes a huge

activist, but even I know that this isn’t
true. Let’s take the example of energy.
Coal is a major source of energy for our
country as well as the world. The bum-
ing of coal to produce energy emits CO2
into the atmosphere, a major component
of global warming. I’m going to assume
you will at least go with me on this glob-
al warming deal here, since I’m not writ-

Emissions enrage the environmental community

since they are a primary reason for global warming.

be achieved simultaneously.

As a humble sophomore with an of-
ﬁcially declared economics major for
only a few short weeks, I ﬁnd this com-
mon train of thought almost disturbing. I
can safely say I am far from being either
a great economist or an environmental

Let’s just say I like the sweeter things
in life. Anyways, my friend was taken
aback and exclaimed how she herself
was much more of a cake person and
would prefer only a slight smear of the
stuff. I
Trite as it may seem, our simple con-
tradiction in taste got me thinking on a
deeper level: what does it say about a
personality if one would rather eat the
frosting then the cake? Most would con-
tend that the distinction is scientiﬁcally
taste bud driven, or perhaps effected
somehow by the mother’s diet in the
womb (here I must disagree, though, as
my mother admits to eating nothing short
of oatmeal and pickles while pregnant
with me). I, however, was drawn to the
deeper question presented by the cake
versus frosting issue: when enjoying a
piece of cake such as the one on the site,
maybe even at my own wedding, would
I rather be sharing it with someone who
also only liked the frosting? Or ‘would I
prefer that my eventual husband and I
be able to ‘conserve’ cake, and share a

ing this article to debate that fact. While
the U.S. is not the largest consumer of
coal (and therefore the largest offender
in releasing CO2 into the atmosphere), it
is my understanding that our initiatif 
to move towards renewable energy “fill
encourage if not force other countries to

piece with him eating the cake and me
eating the frosting, in front of a crowd of
doubtlessly oohing and ahhing guests?
The real question I stumbled upon is
this: how important is compatibility in a

problem when we can’t live up to unre-
alistic standards. If this gets out of hand
and becomes unhealthy, eating disorders
or exercise addictions may develop. And

it’s your own choice, then more power to
you! But if you want to wear clothes that
cover up more parts of your body, then
you also deserve much respect. Wearing

If this gets out of hand and beaomes unhealthy, eat-

ing disorders or exercise addictions may develop.

And that is the worst form of fashion oppression in

my opinion.

that is the worst form of fashion oppres-
sion in my opinion.

Next time you choose your outﬁt,
make sure your clothing makes you feel
comfortable with your body. Nothing is
better than an informed decision —— are
you choosing these clothes to ﬁt in or
do you really like them? If you want to
wear tights because you love them and

follow suit. Here is where the economic
and environmental worlds can unite.

‘ A large component in the upcoming
election is the need for jobs. Professor
Goldsmith frequently noted how every
candidate was the “jobs” candidate in his
macroeconomics course last semester.
To me, the answer seems obvious, but
because I feel like postponing my home-
work a little longer, allow meito spell it
out for you: jobs need to be created in
the renewable energy ﬁeld. Research and
development to perfect alternative forms
of energy such as wind and solar could
lead to an entirely new industry allow-
ing for an abundance of new jobs. Eco-
nomics, however, is not (completely)
political, but rather a focus on achieving
equilibrium and, therefore, efficient mar-
kets. On a basic level, both economics
and environmental activism agree that
the coal industry is bad. The marginal
social costs are much greater than the

tracted to the fact that you had that weird
habit in common? Or would you simply
take comfort in the fact that you were
not alone in your weirdness habit? She
was, of course, perplexed. I coaxed her

Or would I prefer that my eventual husband and I be

able to ‘conserve ’cake, and share a piece with him

eating the cake and me eating the frosting, in ﬂont of

a crowd of doubtlessly oohing and ahhing guests?

relationship? Do opposites really attract?

Take another example. One of my
bestlfriends is known for her unique
way of eating PopTa1ts. She delicately
picks off the surrounding portion from
the fruit (?) ﬁlled center and munches
on their crumbly, shortbread like edges
instead. I asked her—if you saw a boy
at breakfast also picking off the edges
of his PopTart, would you be more at-

to picture two scenarios: one where she
and her husband split a package of Pop-
Tarts for breakfast, casually pinching off

the ends (feeding them to each other?) '

and sharing a chuckle over the discarded
middles they leave behind before they
kiss and depart for work. In the second,
she and her husband exchange a'look of
mutual understanding as they split apart
only one Pop-Tart, she breaking off the

more clothing doesn’t mean that you’re a
prude or you’re uncomfortable with your
body. You can still look “sexy” when
you’re clothed — it’s a matter of conﬁ-
dence. It might be hard going against the
grain of cultural standards, but as long as
you yourself are calling the shots, you’re
greatly empowering yourself and will
get the respect of those around you.

Hf‘)!

marginal private costs since ﬁrms do not
have to pay for the negative extemality
of emissions they place upon society.
These same emissions enrage the envi-
ronmental community since they are a
primary reason for global warming. Both
ﬁelds would conclude that emissions
need to be, at the very least, signiﬁcantly
reduced in order to achieve equilibrium
and save our environment. While this is
only one example, I have found in my
short time studying both ﬁelds that there
are many crossovers like this one where
economists and environmentalists are
ﬁghting for the same thing. Environmen-
talists and economists are not at a stand-
off - except for in Washington, where
they collectively continue to ﬁght for
regulations on CO2 emissions that politi-
cians seemingly love to shoot down.

habits to determine com atibility

nnie Persons encourages readers to keep an open min when choosing partners

edges and he asking casually, “can I have
your middle?” in a morning routine.
Both situations certainly have the “cute”
factor, but which would truly be the bet-
ter marriage?-

I believe it is our nature as humans
to seek out people who are similar to us
as we form friendships and relationships.
However, the old adage that opposites at-
tract is an old adage for a reason. While
I still have not found an answer to this
question of compatibility versus similar-
ity in relationships, I can conclude that
when seeking out a partner in life, it is
crucial to not rule anyone out due to ei-
ther a shared trait or an opposing one.
After all, how cute are both the couple
who shares the Pop-Tart ‘and the one who
discards the middles? I urge you to keep
an open mind to the possible pros and
cons of both types of people in relation
to yourself. I’m also not ruling out the
idea of carrying a slice of cake with you
next Wednesday night, just to see what
you’re really getting into before you take
that “first bite” of love.

The rise and fall of W&L: time to say farewell to fun?

Is W&L changing for the worse? Columnist Patrick Smith says fun levels are

Washing-
ton and Lee’s
class of 2012
has had the
opportunity to
see some of
the amazing
things this in-
stitution once
offered. As a
senior about
to graduate, I
sit and ponder
about the old
days. Ithink
about a six
week spring term that wasn’t labor inten-
sive in the slightest. About the Buffalo
Creek music festival, which consisted of
several D-list bands, but no one seemed

 

§yPatrick:Smith 
CDLUMNIST

to care.

It is clear that over the course of my
stay at Washington and Lee, the fun
levels have gone down considerably.
During my freshman year, going out on
Mondays, Wednesdays or Thursdays
was not a big deal. If you happened to
have a slow night of work, or just felt
like having a little fun, you could talk
to the people on your hall and ﬁgure
something out. Now, a campus notice
couldn’t help you ﬁnd a buddy to hang
out with during the week.

A lot of the ‘decreased fun action
stems from local enforcement. Fresh-
man year, I never remember police be-
ing an issue. Now, if you fart, you are
thrown in handcuffs and begging for a
ﬁve minute phone call. Officer, you can
tow my car, but you can’t take my soul; I

don’t have one, I’m a ginger.

The school cracking down on frater-
nities seems to be the leading contributor
to decreased fun levels. Administration
says they want to move more parties on
campus, yet they still hand out ﬁnes for
a few stray beer cans lying around the
house. Contact hours for “new mem-
bers” has gone from 17 hours a day to 15
hours a day. To top it all off, pledgeship
for all fraternities will be six weeks in-
stead of eight weeks in the coming years.
With the strict punishments to fratemi-
ties and the recent disbanding of a lead-
ing chapter on campus, it is clear that the
university is cracking down.

Soon, parties off campus will be
scarce. Windfall Hill will be a residen-
tial neighborhood in 2-3 years, thus low-
ering Lexington’s fun levels by 30% (I

ran the numbers myself). Since partying
in town-is such a risky thing nowadays,
and without Windfall hill, WnL’s off

ding straight downhill

ment like a swift gazelle. If Washington

and Lee’s fun levels were to be plotted ~

on a line graph, it would look like a dou-

Windfall hill ‘will be a residential neighborhood in
2-3 years, thus lowering Lexington is fun levels by
30% (I ran the numbers myselﬂ.

campus options are limited to the pole
house area, the cabins or way out in the
country.

Now is my time to stop complaining
about the present and start reminiscing
about the good days. The days when I
could hotwire a Chevy in less than 10
seconds, or when I was young and nim-
ble enough to run from local enforce-

ble black diamond, straight downhill.
Comic relief.

-Once upon a time there were two
muﬂins in the microwave. Suddenly, one
of the muffins says: ‘

“Man it’s hot in here!!!!”
The other mufﬁn exclaims,
“Look, a talking muffin! ! ! l”

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY,MARCH 26, 2012

arts&|ife

 

  

Danae performance provokes thought _

The Repertory Dance Company appeared last week in an emotional and artistic Show

By Janey Fugate
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Last week, the Repertoryv Dance
Company performed its biannual dance
show for faculty, parents, and the student
body. Rehearsing for an average of four
hours every night for two weeks before
the show, the dancers put forth one of the
highlight performances of the academic
year

According to the dance company’s
artistic director Jenefer Davies, the
show offered “a wide range of dance
types from contemporary modern dance,
cutting edge styles to more traditional
pieces.” The breadth and variety of the

dances was further diversiﬁed through
the eclectic music selection such as Alice
in Wonderland themed music, the more
obscure Icelandic artist Sigur Ros, to Si-
mon & Garfunkel.

The performances were not only
meant to entertain but also to provoke
thought and an emotional response from
the audience. For example, the ﬁrst
dance juxtaposed three slow, synchro-
nized dancers with two wiggling, ﬁdget-
ing dancers sitting to the side of them.
The dancers switch roles throughout the
piece, moving from very strict choreog-

raphy to a looser, strange state of impa-
tience.

Regarding this artistic goal to connect
with and engage the audience, ﬁrst-year
Mary Kamp said, “I liked the fact that
each dance had a story you had to ﬁg-
ure out — more interesting to follow. I
thought overall it was really beautiful.”

Perhaps one of the most memorable
dances of the show was “Veil of Igno-
rance.” In this piece Jennifer Ritter ’l3
and Jillian Katterhagan ’l5 performed
a slow, sexually charged dance in front
of a lava-like drape in which neither of

them ever stood completely upright.

Though many of the dances were
student choreographed, Davies choreo-
graphed this piece with very personal
interests and experiences _ in mind. “It
was a very emotionally rooted piece
for [Davies],” said Katterhagan, “which
made it an honor and a challenge to try.”
She described the experience of striving
to create one body with two dancers say-
ing, “It was a unique experience to be so
aware of another person while you were
dancing.”

For some of the dancers, this show

also functioned as a rehearsal for the
Dance Company’s trip to Scotland this
coming August. W&L is sending a
group of its most talented performers to
dance in the annual Fringe Festival — a
multicultural celebration of the visual
and performing arts held in Edinburgh.
There, the dancers will represent W&L
by performing several of the pieces they
exhibited last week.

Alum calls for a return to the earth

Alumna Alana DeJoseph went to Mali and came back with a new approach to nature and community

By Colleen Moore
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Conservationist and father of wildlife
management Aldo Leopold wrote “The
Sand County Almanac” in 1949, and it

. still serves as a timeless inspiration for

American environmentalists.
Washington and Lee University
alumna and cinema producer Alana
Deloseph ’92 helped create a tribute to
Leopold’s legacy with the ﬁlm “Green
Fire: Aldo Leopold‘ and a Land Ethic for

Our Time.”

Graduating in 1992 with degrees in
Theatre Arts and Business Administra-
tion, Deloseph began searching forjobs
in a time of high unemployment. Her de-
cision not to attend graduate school for
business did not help her prospects.

Her life outlook changed with a
course she took titled “Food, Population
and Poverty.”

“It was the ﬁrst glimpse I had that I
was part of something larger than my-
self,” said Deloseph. With the guidance
of a professor, Deloseph entered the
Peace Corps and was sent to Mali. There
she found that Malians had a more direct
connection with their environment and a
much stronger sense of their role in their
community.

Similar to the way Malians ap-

proached daily life, Leopold’s land ethic
asks us to see the natural world as a com-
munity to which we belong. Deloseph
said, “It is an ethic that requires us to
see beyond our species. The individual
is a member ofa community of different
parts.”

Today, Delospeh hopes Green Fire
can pass along Leopold’s land ethic to a
21*‘ century population.

“It is one of the crucial remedies to
connect everybody back to the land,”
she said. To embody nature in a way the
Malians did — seeing ourselves a part of
the whole that has a responsibility to the
larger community — is one way to ad-
dress the ecological challenges we are
facing today.

“It would be nice to recapture what
we used to have," said Deloseph.

SOCIOLOGY‘,

  
 

MARCH 29-3o,i2oI2.
 ~ go.wlu.edu/adlibs

matter

start.

It doesn’t

where you

 

' 0'
Washington and Lee University.

A£?’lE.7'.T‘SlNG AND LIBERAL ARTS CONFERENCE

    
    
 

ib'oN HOGl‘.E.’.75
,<;o'r'rv MI‘I.I.,ER ’67

E  to our sponsors... . , A  _ 
;I3fIG RIVER ADVERTISING, FRED MooRE,.2ao‘;.l?,".‘:‘
Bo'r'rI.ERocI<E'r MARKETING GROU

_RlSP|N_,P9RTER + BOGUSKY I   T
.o,oMIN.IoN RESOURCES

l?,_]-_OiE,jIN4 zAMoIsI(I '74_

 

Get high during Holiday Break .

Kala Patthar-18,192 ft

Everest Base Camp - 17,598 ft

Gorak Shep - 16,863 ft

Lobuche - 16,109 ft

Dingboche - 13,976 ft a

Christmas in the Khumbu

A trek to Everest Base Camp in Nepal
December 14 — January 2
www.christmasinthekhumbu.com

Itk never too late]!

1 Check out

W&L JobLink  

on the Career Services website

New
full-time jobs

and internships
are posted daily.

Questions 9

Talk to Career Services

CareerServices

l.ic(-.nsr.d

I07 N Main Street
462-6000

LEIIINGTON L|M()l|SlNE C. TRIlNSP()RTIlTl()N LLC

www.lr.IIingtonlim(I.net
(S40) Mal-llll
SERVING [ILL AIRPORT, AMTRACK I. BUS

LOCATIONS
WE ARE THE ()NL‘I L()CIlLL‘l OWNED (L LEGALLY

l(-.IIingtonlimo@galIoo.com
(S40) lllxll-LIMO

OPERATED

TRANS|’()RTIlT|()N BUSINESS IN THE AREA
|l|Slll'ﬁ(| BOINEEJ

DMll# 829

”Pure Eats is
Lexington’s newest

slice of heaven."
-The Washington Post (12/30/11)

Premium local burgers, fresh doughnuts,
fries, Homestead Creamery milk shakes,
daily soups and stews...on|y the good stuff.

focebook.com/PureEatsYum
for menu updates and news

coming soon: beer!

 

P

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 26,2012

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

sports

 

MarchMadnessmayhem

Andrew Renaldo discusses upsets and how they affect the tournament

By Andrew Renaldo
STAF F WRITER

After a handful of upsets in the ﬁrst
round of NCAA tournament games,
the top teams have restored order head-
ing into the Final Four. While everyone
loves a good Cinderella story this time
of year, I am personally glad that the
best teams remain.

A crucial part of March Madness’s
allure is its unpredictability. The tour-
nament would be boring without a few
upsets, and winning it all would not
seem as signiﬁcant without a few re-
minders of elites’ vulnerability. I worry,
though, that there is a point at which
too many shockers diminishes the
quality of basketball.

Anyone who suffered through last
year’s national championship game can
understand my point. UConn won de-
spite scoring 19 points in the ﬁrst half,
outlasting a Butler team who lost two
crucial players from its fairy—tale sea-
son the previous year. Watching UCo-

nn’s Kemba Walker was always fun, but
it seemed anticlimactic to see them
beat a Butler team that did not seem to
have any business playing for a national
championship.

The difference between Butler’s 2011
and 2010 teams gets at my point: I like
Cinderella teams, but if they are going
to make a long run in the tournament,
I want to feel like they belong with the
best. Butler’s 2010 squad was versatile
and could contend with anyone in the
country. Their run to the title game was
somewhat improbable but still justiﬁ-
able. Had their best player, future NBA
player Gordon Heyward, made his tan-
talizingly close half-court heave (which
would have been the most memorable
shot in college basketball history, I’m
convinced), they would have been wor-
thy champions. '

The 2011 Butler team, in contrast,
was not the same caliber. Although

any run that deep into the tourna-
ment cannot be considered a ﬂuke, an
element of luck certainly aided Butler.
Most notably, they played VCU in the
Final Four. I have family in Richmond
and VCU’s run excited me, but I had a
hard time convincing myself they were
better than Kansas, their elite 8 oppo-
nent. Two upset specials led to Butler
vs. VCU in the Final Four. Despite its
charming novelty, this matchup could
have easily been a ﬁrst—round game. In
the end, too many upsets lead to un-
derwhelming games late in the tourna-
ment.

1 think teams in the tournament
ﬁeld are analogous to individual play-
ers on a team. Great teams often have
the quintessential “underrated” big
man who does all the dirty work—sets
screens, rebounds, takes charges, estab-
lishes a physical presence in the paint,
etc. Analysts love to point out this

Records fall at the Car

Athletes break 14 meet records and 4 school records over the weekend

By CatherineTinney
STA F F WRITE R

Washington and Lee co—hosted the
W&L/Virginia Military Institute Track
and Field Carnival this weekend. 17
schools from all three NCAA divisions
attended with over 1,200 athletes partici-
pating.

Day one took place with most events
taking place at Wilson Stadium while all
events of day two took place at VMI’s
Foster Staduim. The javelin was the lone

- exception, with the throwers utilizing

the runway at VMI beginning with the

Wamm '6. .4x—.400r.n

Women, A 

. so



.7751; '6 //Om./zuzdéa

Wmfo «400»-. .

ﬁrst ﬂight of girls at 9 am.

The winner of the women’s javelin
was senior- Lauren Butler from Allegh-
eny. She threw the javelin a meet record
distance of42.66m (l39’l1”).

The women’s javelin was just one of
many meet records that got broken over
the course of the two day meet. Athletes
broke an additional 13 meet records. A
full listing is below.

Multiple school records were also
broken over the weekend. The men’s

42.34/72, //36’ '77 ' '/

/

and women’s teams broke two records
apiece. V .

Sophomores Zander Tallman and
Dillon Myers broke the school 400 me-
ter and decathlon records, respectively.

Tallman ran a time of 47.66 breaking
not only the school recordbut the meet
record as well. It is also the fastest 400
meter time in Division III yet this sea-
son.

Myers scored a total of 6,480 points
in the decathlon to place second. Myers’

player, as it shows they appreciate the
ﬁner points of basketball. Eventually,
everyone praises this player so much
that he paradoxically becomes over-
rated for being underrated. He does
his job—and it’s an important one—but
when push comes to shove, he strug-
gles to score, does not have great ball-
handling skills, and is an abysmal free
throw shooter. Teams cannot win with
only these types of players; they need a
few stars too.

From this year’s tournament, Nor-
folk State and Lehigh are like these
underrated players. Their upsets over
Missouri and Duke, respectively, were
understandably fun for some people
to watch. They highlighted the talent
that can be found in mid-major con-
ferences, which the media tends to
overlook. Yet I do not doubt that Mis-
souri and Duke were better teams, and
their losses prevented fans from see-

ival

score was also good enough to beat the
previous meet record. Junior Antonio
Wood of VMI, the only competitor to
beat Myers with a score of 6,657 points,
is the new decathlon meet record holder.

On the women’s side, ﬁrst-year Jil-
lian Katterhagen was a part of two
school record-setting performances. On
Friday she broke the pole vault record
with a jump of 3.60m (l1’09.75”) to
place sixth overall.

Later in the day, Katterhagen teamed

.sas, which seemed about right.

ing games between storied programs
that featured the nation’s top talent. To
have a great tournament, you need star
teams to stick around. At some point,
an underrated team is overly appreci-
ated for being a good story rather than
a truly great team.

The 2008 tournament was my favor-
ite because the balance was just right.
Davidson was a legitimately good Cin-
derella team that progressed to the
elite 8 behind Stephen Curry’s magic.
They lost to eventual champion Kan-
The
two best teams, Kansas and Memphis,
squared off in a memorable ﬁnal, and
harmony prevailed in the college bas-
ketball world. Too many upsets disrupt
this order, and although a little chaos
can be fun, it can easily be unjust. I
hope that in every tournament the best

. teams prevail.

up with senior Natalie Stier, sophomore
Lauren Woodie, and ﬁrst—year Janey
Fugate to break the 4x400 meter record
with a time of 4:06.46 to place third
overall.

Both the men’s and women’s teams
return to the track this Saturday as they
head to Christopher Newport University
for the Commonwealth Duals Meet be-
ginning at .12 pm.

 

39

The age of Andy Pettitte, whom the New York Yankees bought
out of retirement for a price of $1.5 million. He turns 40 in June.
The total, number of points that Kentucky freshman Michael ’
Kidd-Gilchrist had scored with 5:03 remaining in the ﬁrst

half. At this point Baylor had scored just 17 points as a team.

The Wildcats won the NCAA South regional game 82-70.

 

soapbox

"Nothing hurts more than not being able to
physically help your team, but I'm here with
them spiritually now more than ever.”

I

-UNc¢uanIKendalIMarsIia|ItinioeIad1hlsaboutnatbo|mv
ablo1npIqylnthoM|dwastRa¢Iona|1|mla¢alnstKansas.

        
   

with a two goal streak on their own.

The Generals went into halftime leading
6-4 on a two goal streak. "

Washington and Lee opened up the sec-

two goals, the ﬁrst unassisted and the second
on a free position shot, began short scoring
streaks for the Generals. '

The Generals continued to.look good as

The Generals return to action on Tuesday
as they head to Sweet Briar for a 3:45 p.m.
contest.

Tennis dro 5 two

Women s tennis falls to two ranke opponents in Fab Five Invite

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Third-ranked Washington and Lee lost just
their fourth match of the outdoor‘ season to
fourth-ranked Emory on Saturday 5-2 during
the Fab Five Invitational hosted by W&L.

The match was moved inside to the Duch-
ossois Tennis Center due to the weather. Space
limitations of the facility led to the match ‘only
being played to ﬁve points.

W&L found themselves behind early ver-
sus Emory after losing two of three doubles
competitions.

The Generals lost the ﬁrst doubles compe-
tition but was able to tie it back up after win-
ning the number three game. First-year Patri-

cia Kirkland and sophomore Cameron Dorsey
teamed up to defeat ﬁrst-year Catharine Harris
and junior Jordan Wylie in the second com-
pleted doubles game.

The Generals lost the ﬁnal doubles com-
petition, the number two game, when sopho-
mores Malavik Padmanabhan and Brenna
Kelly of Emory defeated senior Lauren Lukas
and ﬁrst-year Meghan Buell of W&L.

W&L won just one of four singles compe-
titions. The lone victory came when ﬁrst-year
Allison Hupalo defeated ﬁrst-year Lauren
Pinsky in a tight contest. The game went to
a third set and after many tied scores, Hupalo

won the set 15-13 to win.

Earlier in the tournament the Generals
faced both ﬁrst-ranked Williams and seventh-
ranked Tufts.

The Generals lost to Williams 7-2 on
Wednesday, but defeated Tufts 6-3 the follow-
ing day. Before the weekend, the Generals had
won 12 matches in a row. They had not lost
since February 18”‘ when they faced James
Madison, a Division I program.

W&L returns to the court on Saturday
when they travel to Carnegie Mellon for a
12:00 p.m. match.

Gennies leave pool as All-Americans

6 ’ Generals earn All-American honors at NCAA Division III championships

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s men’s swim team
ﬁnished 16"‘ after competing for four days at
the Division III NCAA Championships in In-
dianapolis, Indiana.

Day one consisted of two All-American
performances by the Generals. The 200 med-
ley relay team of juniors Wayde Marsh and

 

  

The Generals continued to earn All-Ameri-
can honors as the competition went on.
On day two the Generals ﬁnished in the top
16 in the 100 ﬂy, the 200 yard freestyle relay,
the 400 medley relay, and the 400 individual
medley.
I Stirling placed ninth in the 100 ﬂy, break-

  

All-American 400 medley relay. Marsh,
Sykes, and Dexter joined Stirling in the event.
Their time of 3:24.93 was good enough to
place l5"‘.

Senior Chris Washnock earned the team’s
second individual All-American accolades of
day two. Washnock placed 14"‘ in the 400 in-

  

 

6 -THE RING-TUM PHl- ‘ ' MONDAY, MARCH 26,2012
‘ I 0
O
i“ the "“'"b°'5 Lax  ITS  
  O
7 2 Brewster leads Gennies in victory over Roanoke and loss to Mary Washington
By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR V
The total number of tournaments that Tlger Woods has Won Women’s lacrosse opened up play this 0nd half continuing their streak to four goals. the second half opened. Brewster scored unas-
. .. k 'th ' fll OldD '- R k bl d t'l" ‘d’ ‘ ' ' .
              
.. . . .‘WddWh' dLdfd'h. lkhW .
Inwtanonal on Sunday‘ It I-5 the ﬁrst Wctory for Woods m 30 Rjarildlje a1y2-8. as mgton an 6e C eats m tR:§f11b1k: was unable to put together anoth- sf/)§LLSt(lii:cEl1 nttatastcorf :g:i(i1u1f:1)rnt0h[er::§’t0:g ttli)e
th The Generals, 6-2 and 2-0 in the ODAC er streak and was not able to catch up. W&L half and lost the game 13-5.

mon 5' after the game, were led on the scoreboard by won the game l2-8. One of the factors that led to the ﬁnal score
sophomores Greta Witter and Meade Brewster W&L retumed to Watt Field on Saturday was the shots on goal discrepancy. W&L took

and ﬁrst-year Sammy Yates. Each of the three to face sixteenth-ranked Mary Washington. one more shot than Mary Washington did over ,

6 contributed two goals to the ﬁnal score. Witter W&L lost 13-5. the course of the game. W&L took 21 shots, 0
and Brewster each additionally contributed an The ﬁrst half was tightly contested. Mary nine of which were in the ﬁrst half. Mary
assist. ‘ Washington scored the ﬁrst two goals of the Washington equaled W&L’s ﬁrst half shoot-
The tmal number of Weeks that New YOrkYankeeS General W&L was down early after a goal by soph— contest, but W&L was able to respond with ing, and took ll shots in the second half.
Mana er Brian Cashman ex ects itcher Joba Chamberlaws omoreAll1son Bonanno ofRoanoke just three two goals of their own. Out of the 21 shots that W&L took, only
9 p p and a half minutes into the game. Bonanno Mary Washington then went on a three- 11 were on target. Mary Washington goalie ju-
I t b . t Ch b H . d. I t d h. r. ht kl scored a game-high 3 goals on 8 shots. goal streak and led W&L 5-2 with just over nior Kathryn Stiltz only had to face ll shots.
eg 0 e m a Cas ' am e am '5 Oca e '5 '9 an e Both the Generals and the Maroons scored ﬁve minutes to play in the half. Before the half W&L goalie ﬁrst-year Cara Mulligan faced 19
b . t I. .th h. n 0 Th r d d S i in the following ten minutes. ended, W&L was able to score two goals and shots out of the 20 that Mary Washington at-
ouncmg on a ampo me WI '5 S0 n U’ S ay an Iwa n The scoring went back and forth for the rest were downjust 5-4 entering halftime. tempted. ‘
th h .t I f th d ft rh . r ‘of the half, with the Generals scoring three in First-year Julia Van Sant ‘played a large With the loss W&L fell to 6-3 overall,
e mm C3 or ree aysa e avmg 5” gery' a row followed by the Maroons responding role in keeping the game close. Each of her while Mary Washington rose to 6-2. .

HE "33 "N599" ‘"919 Hwsmx mﬁldnl hltﬂgltwﬂgt Rick Sykes and seniors Ian Dexter and Brian ing his own school record that he set at the dividual medley with a time of 4:00.26. 
lﬂllﬂablﬂﬂbn on March 1931. KBIISBS ddﬁhd UNC80- Stirling swam a time of 1:32.14 to place tenth Bluegrass Mountain Conference Champion- Washnock earned the only All-American
37 on Sunday, from SI.com overall and break the previous school record. ships with a time of 49.07. honors for the Generals over the course of the
Sykes additionally placed 13"‘ in the 50 Stirling then teamed up with twin brother ﬁnal two days. On the last day of competition,
meter freestyle with a time of 20.67 in his Jeff Stirling, Sykes, and senior Ian Dexter in Washnock placed 12*“ in the 200 yard back-
second All-American performance of the day. the 200 medley relay. They swam a combined stroke with a time of 1:49.39.
It - Athletes who place in the top 16 of their event time of 1:23.22 to ﬁnish ninth. The season is now over for the swim team
-Nowadays’ so many players play the game earn All-American honors. Brian Stirling was also a member of the and they will return to the pool next year.
for the 15’ and 15"’ [pay days], but I never
have. Certainly, I want to be compensated _
fairly for what I do, but I wasn’t going to j.
hold the organization over a barrel. And I D 1
never wanted to be a player who makes so I
» much money that we can’t stay competitive
on the ﬁeld. That was my main concern.”
-AﬂanIn‘Bra\rechlpperJoneswhonslmIruwhatIsnowh|s
lastoontnctln 2009. He noonuyannounoeduiatuilswlll
bohIs1InaIseason.0var1hospanofhls18yaarcarararwlIh
1hoBruvashohashItavar.300and454hon|emns,1hoonIy
such plqyarslncesun Muslaltndothatforaslngioteam,
from SI.com ‘Q
Senior Chris Wash nock competing earlier in the season. PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTS‘ OM
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
women.s Tennis vsEmory10a.m.
M e n . S L a C r 0 S S e Vs Williams 330 p_m_ at Carnegie Mellon 12 p.m.
B a S e b a I l at H-S land 4 p.m. vs Bridgewater 5 pm. at R-M 1 and 4 P-m- .
M e n ' 5 Te n n is at Carnegie Mellon TBA
T r a c k at Commonwealth Duals
G o I f at C&F Bank Invite at C&F Bank Invite
at_Sweet Briar 3:45 p.m ' , tV_ _ W I 3 30
I1 2 .m.
Women’s Lacrosse atRa”d°'ph7p-m- a "gma eseya p

 

