 

O‘

 ‘-- ‘J «‘(~pvw »!"\w.:'Irq§(
voters‘: « ‘f s
u.‘.;m-;- A:

i,-

iv,‘-~,y'9gvy.‘

.‘__,"

  T Let’spig out, i

    iARTs&uFE / pageiss C

  

Who's been nau hty or nice?
Pat Smith knows whic sports ﬁgures are
getting presents or coals in their stockings
this year.

SPORTS / page 7

MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2011

WASHINGTON AND I

' THE RING-TUM PHI. ,

1
‘I
2

IV‘ ILHE SIUIEHTS AID FE! IOlE SIUDEIIS S‘l|Il'.!E1ﬂ!7 VOLUME CX,NUMBER1,5/I

LEE UNIVERSITY

/.

Don’t get SAD, get healthy

Colder weather and ﬁnals stress can lead to “winter blues” or seasonal affective disorder

By Tilden Bowditch
STAFF warren

As the weather gets colder and
stress levels get higher, students might
ﬁnd themselves experiencing the win-
ter blues. ‘

People often mistake the winter
blues for Seasonal Affective Disorder,
a form of clinical depression that usu-
ally occurs in the fall and winter.

The shorter days and long, dark
nights of the winter season can cause
anyone to experience the winter blues.
Symptoms of the winter blues include
depression, tiredness, weight gain and
social withdrawal - not to mention
anxiety as ﬁnals and rush week loom
ahead.

Seasonal Affective Disorder, or
SAD, occurs when a person experi-
ences these symptoms intensely for
at least two consecutive weeks, says
Director of Health Services Dr. Jane»
Horton. According to Horton, students

prone to depression are more suscep-
tible to SAD.

Depression at Washington and Lee
University is not uncommon. In last
year’s National College Health As-
sessment, 35.6 percent of W&L stu-
dents reported feeling so depressed
it was difﬁcult to function at some
point during the year. Senior Lauren
Ashley Tipton, who runs student men-
tal health organization Active Minds,
says she notices student depression
more obviously during exam week
every year.

“People become so overwhelmed
with their work that any preexist-
ing tendencies towards depressive
thoughts are exasperated by the iso-
lation that one typically experiences
during exam week,” Tipton said.

Active Minds hosted a panel on
mental health Thursday, Dec. 1 in

Stackhouse. The panel consisted of
two staff members, one law student
and three undergraduate students who
spoke about their personal experienc-
es with mental health issues.

Topics discussed included depres-
sion, self-injury, relationship violence
and substance abuse. Staff member
Kelsey Goodwin shared about losing
a friend to suicide last year.

“It was really intense, powerful
stuff. I don’t think there was a dry eye
in the room,” Goodwin said.

This season, students might con-
sider being aware of their own well-
being as well as their. friends’. As
exam week draws closer, students
often sacriﬁce their physical health
for a few extra hours of studying. Dr.
Barongan, a clinical psychologist at
the University Counseling Center and
the Active Minds advisor, says pulling

an all-nighter actually hurts more than
it helps a student’s academic perfor-
mance.

“Yes, you have more time to study
but you’ll be working longer and
harder because you won’t work as ef-
ﬁciently,” Barongan said.

Instead, she suggests students take
the extra time to exercise, sleep, and
eat so when they do study, they’ll be
more productive.

Maintaining a daily routine and pri-
oritizing a healthy lifestyle is key for
battling seasonal depression, says Dr.
Horton. Horton says students should
prioritize eating well, exercising, and
sleeping at least 7 hours every night.

She also suggests an hour of light
exposure every day. Light therapy
boxes are available in all three cam-
pus libraries, including the science
and law libraries.

   

Avoid all—nightersi
Exercise ' - '
Eat healthy
. Get light exposure
Maintain a routine

Wys t stay ’
sane during

ﬁnals

  
  
 

    
 

Are you ready for recruitment?

End of fall term signals beginning of formal recruitment for bothﬁrst years and upper classmen

By Leigh Dannhauser
STA F F WRITE R

As the fall term comes to a close, first
years and upper classmen alike are get-
ting ready for the excitement of fonnal
recruitment.

Here’s a breakdown of the rus pro-
cess on both sides.

Fraternity Rush

A few weeks ago all male potential
new members met with the lnterfrater-
nity Council. Each PNM ranked their top
six fraternities, out ofthe 14 total.

Each PMN will receive an invite
from four of the six houses that they
ranked in November. PNMS visit the
four houses over the span of two days.
They attend what are called rush parties.
On Tuesday and Wednesday PNMs can
only attend one rush party per house they
are invited to.

At this point houses can choose
whether or not to invite the PNM back to
the rush parties on Thursday and Friday.
Those receiving invites back to those
parties are automatically given a bid to
that house.

According to Clay Coleman, director
of Greek and resident life, this process
will not be affected too much by the larg-
er ﬁrst-year class. Only eight more boys
are registered to rush this year compared
to last year.

“I wouldn’t say it’s statistically sig-
niﬁcant,” says Coleman.

There are no caps or quota systems in
fraternity rush.

Coleman says that the golden rule in
the rush process is to respect other or-
ganizations. He says he expects honor,
integrity and civility during the rush pro-
cess.

“We’re a community that respect one
another,” Coleman says.

With Christmas Weekend just passing
there are not really any more opportuni-
ties for fraternities in terms of rushing.
Coleman says that this week is a dead
week with ﬁnals coming up, and then its
winter break.

Fraternity brothers can talk to PNMs
all the way up to through rush without

Career Services
would like to
wish you
good luck; with exams

and

 

Stop by and see us with
Last minute questions
before you lease.

restrictions. Fraternity rush does not
have a no-contact period.

Sorority Rush

Sorority recruitment is much differ-
ent than fraternity recruitment.

Female PNMs do not rank the sorori-
ties before January. Also unlike frater-
nity rush, PNMS cannot talk to sorority
girls during winter break. This time pe-
riod is called no contact. This contin-
ues throughout rush week, except for at
night during rush.

On the first night of rush, PNMs go
to all six houses. Afterwards they head
to the D-Hall to rank the sororities. Girls
rank ﬁve sororities as their number one
and one sorority as their number two.

As the days of rush week pass,
PNMs can attend fewer and fewer
houses, which they are invited back to.
On Thursday PNMs can only visit two
houses and then on Friday they receive
their bids to one house.

Throughout the week the rush parties
that female PNMS attend get longer and

less frequent.

This year, with the larger ﬁrst-year
class there are more girls rushing. As
of last Thursday, there were 220 female
PNMs.

The large number of PNMs is just
one aspect as to how rush is different
this year.

“The large number of women reg-
istered will likely result in larger new
member classes,” says Katie Salvati,
Panhellenic council recruitment chair.
“We are excited that our sorority com-
munity continues to grow.”

The main difference to rush week of
2012 is that the Alpha Delta Pi house has
been completed. This year PNMs will
stay on sorority row during the night.
Last year ADPi had their rush parties in
Evans Dining Hall. A bus shuttled girls
from Evans to sorority row and back af-
ter each party had been completed.

“It is wonderful to have all of our
chapters recruiting out of a house on so-
rority row,” says Salvati.

This process can be stressful for some
girls.

Head Rho Gamma Alexandra Frazier
says that it should be a positive experi-
ence instead.

“Be honest with yourself, and pref-
erence the house where you best ﬁt in,”
Frazier said. “That may or may not be
where you thought you were going in
September, where your roommate is go-
ing, where you’re a legacy... but it will
be where you’re happiest for the next
three and a half years.”

For those who are overwhelmed by
the process, Rho Gammas are a valuable
resource. They have been through the
process already and give unbiased sup-
port. ‘

“They have training. They know
things,” says Frazier. “lt’s better to ask
a Rho Gamma directly if you have ques-
tions than to ask other PNMS.”

    

_—--—-~~ »;_.._.r,..-_._

(I 5041-_l'l_ Ca: r‘I, 

IJHC  e:r~¢_-xi 'i_ ‘I

r”‘“'~—

“TL--:::i"""-'"*'j:: _.
'~.I H ,- :__r_...-‘
. E} é !I ' J :'_._,:__:~'‘‘‘
*9’

_.--‘J’

I ,.‘-~' '.
GREG ussiznir / staff cartoonist if
f

r“. 13*. J

'2
i
i

.1.

/

/‘ff
_ ‘___..-1___ _-»_-.., -

/

 

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY
WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI ~

DEC 1 3 20ll

MONDAY, DECEMBER 5,2011

opinions

 

Shacking 101: a guide to a night out

Planning on spending the night out? Take a look at the top ten misconceptions and misdemeanors of sleepovers

 

ByTucker Willow
. co um N I sr

10. Kiss and Tell

It’s no secret that at a small school
every millisecond long DFM is a public
affair. After laughing aboutit with your
friends, you come up with a catchy nick-
name that successfully hides the identi-
ﬁcation of your hook-up from everyone
but your friends so you can publicly
discuss and harass them without being
outwardly rude. While childish and im-
mature, at least this method of sharing
your story saves some face. In general,
a classic, classy move of not kissing and
telling is preferable.

9. Hickeys

From cold spoons to unused tooth-
brushes, there are a million hilarious
quick ﬁxes every shacker has tried,
and failed, at least once. The “Vacuum
Hookup” is a classic source for social
embarrassment, and these people should
be publicly humiliated ten times over
for each of their victims. Your best bet
in hiding your Saturday night shack is to
rock a pashmina to class, but in the event
of a Lexington heat wave, I’d say do
your best to avoid the vacuum hookup.
Unless you want to look like you sur-
vived a bear attack.

8. Activity Volume

Everyone’s been on the wrong side of
a screamer. There’s nothing worse than
having to swallow your pride to stay
in and study... until you encounter an
over—enthused lover. Granted, the ﬁrst
20 seconds are hysterical once you re-
alize what’s going on, but after that it’s
just annoying. Congratulations on get-
ting laid,~I’ve got a voice recording of

what sounds like a murder on my phone
and you can bet I’ll be sharing it with
all of my closest friends. So please, keep
it down. That way everyone around you
gets a good night sleep - and you get to
keep your dignity.

7. IDing Your Victim, Location, etc.

There’s nothing quite like waking up
in a strange, unknown location...except
for waking up in a strange, unknown lo-
cation with a strange, unknown person
beside you. A common misdemeanor
in the shack attack is not remembering
every exact detail. It’s safe to say that if
you don’t at least know someonels ﬁrst
name, you probably shouldn’t be shar-
ing his/her bed. But never fear, not all
hope is lost. After ﬁnding your clothes
and phoning a friend for a ride home
(if your location is unknown just start
shouting that once they ﬁnd a car you
can get them an address), quickly sweep
the room for a wallet or swipe. This is
the easiest way to ﬁgure out whose room
youjust slept in. If you can’t ﬁnd an ID,
look for a phone. Check their latest texts,
calls, etc. to try and determine who it is.
This is a shot in the dark - maybe their
phone is locked, maybe they only put
contacts in their phone with ﬁrst names,
maybe they only talk to their mom...
who knows. So don’t rely on this one.
In a state of complete desperation, you
can always resort to photographic evi-
dence. This is best done while the victim
is still sleeping, but then you can utilize
your friends in IDing your shack. Do not
send this around—you will look like a
freak. At this point, hopefully your ride
is outside, but if not, be sure to book it
outside, there’s nothing worse than‘ an
awkward morning (see no. 5). Once out-
side, hopefully you will recognize your
surroundings and be able to inform your
driver where to get you. If not, hopefully
you’ve got an iPhone and you can just
try maps.

6. Sexile Island

Everyone’s worst fear entering col-
lege is the dreaded roommate. Will he be
an avid Dungeons and Dragons player‘?
Will she constantly black out and puke
in our room? Will they steal my shit? lt’s

htumcmamlnllnﬂstﬂ

THE RING-TUM PHI.

a never-ending game you play of worst
case scenario until you Facebook stalk
them and discover they are at least mild-
ly normal looking. But you’re not free
yet — a good-looking roommate could
lead to the worst roommate of all: the
sexiler. For those who don’t pay atten-
tion to the outside world, a sexiler is a
cruel and unusual person who puts their
own sexual needs above the common
courtesy and respect for other human be-
ings. Maybe it’s been a long night out at

of the bed. The next series of events de-
pends on who you’re with but it all ends
the same — they’re trying to kiss you. As
appealing as a make out sounds while
you reek of Natty and shame and your
mouth is as dry as the Sahara, you’re just
not that into it. This misconception is all
too common, and a little hard to swallow
so let me just say it: Don’t try to relight
the ﬂame in the morning. Most likely
I’m ready to go home and shower, alone,
so please don’t touch me. And just be-

The opposite of the silent treatment, the Delusional Dater

immediately begins planning a wedding, mapping out the

nursery, and searching for vacation homes after getting the

hook. I

 -

the poles, or maybe you’rejust returning
from a hard night’s study at the Leybs
when you ﬁnd the locked door. The
giggling from within taunts you as you
hopelessly knock and bang on the door
trying to gain entrance. You have been
sexiled. Once you’ve realized your mis-
fortune you have a few options:

1. Unlock the door. Immediately start
apologizing and pretending you had no
idea, but then refuse to leave and quickly
show the unwanted third party (as well
as your roommate if you so choose) the
door :

2. Sleepoverll Quickly make your
way to the nearest safe-haven friend’s
room and make yourself comfortable on
the shag rug.

3. Call as many friends as you can,
roam around rousing them from their
sleep and camp outside your door. Even-
tually someone is going to have to leave,
and when they do, break into a roar of
applause and snap a candid shot of the
shacker leaving. Sucks to suck.

5. Morning Makeout

You open your eyes to an unfamiliar
ceiling. You roll over to an even more
unfamiliar bed. As you try to determine
your location and escape route you hear a
gravelly “hey” come from the other side

cause I make polite, even friendly, con-
versation does not mean I’m interested.
Unless you’ve woken up with this per-
son before, assume they’re over it until
after they get some breakfast.

4. Walk of Shame

Everyone’s seen the occasional ﬁrst
year try to sneak up the stairs to their
own room or run across the quad in their
Halloween costume, but for off-campus

H shacking there is a whole new set of

rules. One of the worst, and most com-
mon, misdemeanors that can be com-
mitted during a Shack Attack is actually
what doesn’t happen. When you don’t
give your overnight guest a ride home,
you’re simply rude. This especially ap-
plies after 7am when the walk is ten times
more likely to encounter friends or pro-
fessors as you scurry through downtown
Lex. This rule also especially applies if
you live in a frat house not in/close to red
square. I’m sorry, but the mile walk back
from KA is not pleasant in the morning,
particularly as you dodge churchgoers in
your Dirty South outﬁt.

3. The Silent Treatment

The Speak Tradition is one of the
things that sets W&L apart. Another one
of those things is the Non-Speak Tradi-
tion effective immediately following

a shack. Maybe you have a legitimate
reason to avoid eye contact with some-
one who just days ago you were shov-
ing your tongue down their throat, but
probably not. Another common mis-
demeanor on the hook-up circuit is the
silent treatment. We’ve all experienced
a little awkwardness following a shack,
but complete silence isjust rude. I’m not
asking you to marry me (see no. 1), but
you could at least wave and acknowl-
edge that you know me.

2. There’s no “sleep” in sleepover

While some of our campus thrives on
the hook-up culture of the party scene,
there’s no law that says you have to get
down when shacking up. In fact, your
reputation, dignity and self-worth are
more likely to stay intact if you don’t.
We’ve all read the posters in the dorms,
and we all passed 7th grade health —
don’t do what you aren’t comfortable
doing. Just because you’re taking half
the bed doesn’t mean you have to return
any favors. So roll over and snore away,
your only obligations are to yourself.

1. Delusional Dater

Here we are, number one. The top
misconception of the shack culture: the
Delusional Dater. Everyone knows one,
is one or has been with one and some
might even argue a Delusional Dater
starts their sexual life out as a Morning
Make Out artist. Whichever way you
slice it, this person is all wrong. The
opposite of the silent treatment, the De-
lusional Dater immediately begins plan-
ning a wedding, mapping out the nurs-
ery, and searching for vacation homes
after getting the hook. They frequently
refer to their shacker as their “boy/girl-
friend” and tend to fabricate, expand on,
and just plain make up ridiculous facts,
stories and situations to go along with
their new “relationship”. Shacking is not
dating, and while the occasional shack
can turn into something beautiful, it is
important to remember the golden rule:
You are the rule, not the exception. Un-
less, of course, you arethe exception.

A Question of Honor

Beall describes the importance of honor inside and outside of the classroom

MANAGING EDITOR DIANDRA SPICAK
NEWS EDITOR ELEANOR KENNEDY

OPINIONS EDITORCAMPBELL BURR

ARTS&L|FE EDITOR PAIGE GANCE
SPORTS EDITORJAYNA JOHNS
MORAL SUPPORTANTHONY KIRBY

STAFF WRITERSJOHN PAUL BEALL
TILDEN BOWDITCH
STOCKTON BULLITT
LEIGH DANNHAUSER
STEPHANIE KRASNOV
ALEXANDER MARAGOS
STEPHEN PECK
PAT SMITH
TODD SMITH.-SCHOENWALDER
ANGELA WILLIAMS
TUCKER WILLOW
v FRANCESCA WILSON

DESIGN EDITORJULIANNA SATTERLY

STAFF CARTOONISTGREG USSERY

BUSINESS MANAGERS MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON
DISTRIBUTION STAFF DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: it is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty.
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

  

“You must study
to be frank with the
world: frankness is
the child of honesty
and courage. Say
just what you mean
to do on every oc-
casion, and take it
for granted that you
mean to do right.”

These are the
words of Robert E.
Lee, and they sum
up the importance of
honor at Washington
and Lee. For a con-
cept that surrounds
W&L students everywhere, there is nothing
more nebulous than the deﬁnition of honor.

This article will explore some ofthe deﬁn-
itive issues in the Honor System, from where
it applies, its broadness of scope, and some
grey-area situations. Ultimately, the student
body deﬁnes the concept of honor, so take
some time to think about what honor and the
honor system mean to you.

 

ByJoI'inPaulB-eiall
COLUIMIIST

Most everyone can agree that the Honor
System is present “on the hill.” Lying, cheat-
ing, and stealing are the Holy Trinity of honor
violations, demonstrated by verbose tour
guides through open doors, unattended lap-
tops, and the famous “take-home” tests. By
extension, honor has its place in dorms, Greek
houses, and into the community, if at least
through stealing and academic cheating. The
situation gets more difﬁcult with social cheat-
ing and lying, which are harder to pinpoint.

What about in the community? Consider a
situation where a police ofﬁcer asks an intoxi-
cated person if he or she is sober. Should this
person lie to the police oﬁicer, or moreover, is
this grounds to visit the Executive Commit-
tee? What if a person lies to a student govern-
ment body like the Student Faculty Hearing
Board or the Student Judicial Council about
something they did out in the community? Is
that conduct unbecoming or an Honor Viola-
tion? Depending on the degree or type of vio-
lation, should different sanctions be admin-
istered besides permanent removal from the
W&L community?

Some may wonder if certain questionably

dishonorable acts could be considered HVs or
be held subject to the single-sanction policy,
but the threat of punishment is not what hon-
or is about. Honor means doing the morally
conventional and right thing, regardless of
beneﬁts or consequences. Honorable people
do not need sanction as a deterrent from ac-
tion. The chance that someone is less likely
to report a cad at a party than a cheater in the
classroom should not make the difference in a
person’s actions. Is the threat ofsoiled reputa-
tion enough in social cases?

To close, one last Robert E. Lee quotation:
“The trite saying that honesty is the best poli-
cy has met with the just criticism that honesty
is not policy. The real honest man is honest
from conviction of what is right, not from
policy.” The true strength of our honor sys-
tem is not in policy and codiﬁcation, but in the
people who adhere to it. So, it is up to us all
to perpetuate it, especially by talking about it.

I challenge everyone who reads this to take
a short study break and think about the Honor
System for a few minutes, to ensure that our
community of trust will always remain.

Tips on all-nighters

All-nighters are
sometimes a fact of
college life. There
is no avoiding them.
There is that ten
page paper you for-
got about, that group
N project that somehow
turned into a you-
project, or just those
- painful-but-neces-
sary all-night cram-
 ming sessions.

Not that this is all
bad - sometimes it’s
easier getting all your

work for the week done in one night. Plus, the
adrenaline rush from having a three thousand
word paper due in ﬁve hours can be quite ex-
hilarating. Yay for dates with Leybum! lt’s the
day after that you have to worry about. Life,

 . . I ;
I.  ‘I
By SalIyPIatt

CDLUMNIST

 

class, and people don’t stop happening just
because you spent the last twelve hours glued
to a computer screen.

So, how do you avoid acting and looking
like a tired, washed out zombie the next day?
There is no real answer to this, but here are
some things that can help...

1. Don’t wear the same clothes that you
wore yesterday. The temptation is to go
straight from Leybum to class but trust me -—-
people will notice. (Actually, they probably
won’t notice but you will be so paranoid that
they will that you won’t be able to concentrate
at all).

2. ...on that note, trade the hoodie for the
Barbour. Dressing nicely can be a great mood-

booster - aka how you dress is how you act, or r

so the idea goes.

3. Buy a 5-hour Energy! Just when the ﬁrst
cleaning crew hits Leybum, around 4 AM,
you need to start getting energized up. (Just

, Sally Platt is quick list on how to survive ﬁnals week and staying up all night

don’t go overboard, energizer bunnies are not
attractive).

4. Resist the urge to speak in class unless
you have fully formulated your ideas. The
sleep deprived brain has a tendency to go on
long rambles and bunny trails - fun, but not
always the most useﬁil thing if you are trying
to look vaguely intelligent.

5. Listen to Christmas music! Even one lit-
tle “Holly Jolly Christmas” or “Jingle Bells”
before class can have the best effect. (And
have a candy cane, too. Why not?)

Finals week is almost upon us. All-night
dates with Leybum will be happening. Just
make sure you’re not that kid who comes
stumbling into class looking like a wreck
(teachers read this as: hung-over). So, change
out of your sweats, take a 5-hour Energy, and
survive ﬁnals week! Christmas is almost upon
us.

 

  

MONDAY, DECEMBER 5,2011

3 ~ THE ‘RING-TUM PHI-

 

opinio

 

(S

  

    

 

Making the most outoflinals week  

Stressed out about exams? Senior Stockton Bullitt oﬂers advice for n

Although

. I would love
to explain to
you the ﬁner
gift to give this
holiday season,
Tim Tebow has
proven that we
should be more
_ focused on the
religious aspect
of the holiday

   

. r K .9 season. The
By Stu-con B-ullitt °°'““‘e‘°i“" "a"
CDLUMNHT ture of Christ-

mas is always
appealing, but Santa didn't have a 154
quarterback rating against the Vikings.
During this holiday season, students
at Washington and Lee should be fo-
cused on the most important “F.” No,
not friends or family, but ﬁnals! The
only way students can truly appreciate
the holidays is by getting all of their fall
semester classes off their backs. And
the only way your parents will actually
step up and get you the presents that you
really want is for them to see you over-
achieve on your report card. Basically,
you need to crush ﬁnals these next two
weeks to have any semblance of joy over
the next month. No pressure though,
because I have some advice that should
help you dominate ﬁnals the same way
LSU dominates everyone else who plays
football.
Use the Saturday Final Exam slot
This is probably the most impor-
tant strategic advice you can take for
the ﬁnals period. Assuming you have
three exams and a paper due during ﬁ-
nals week, you can make your week
much more manageable by simply tak-
ing a Saturday exam. This allows you to

Khan?

Wear some-
thing ﬂashy, pop

a little cham-
pagne, kiss
that handsome
stranger when

the clock strikes
12, and make
a resolution. I
can’t help with

the ﬁrst three
(unless you need
a good line),

but I can guide
you through the
fourth. If you
are looking for a New Year’s resolution,
you’re in the right place.

There are many activities we engage
in everyday that could harm us in the
long run. Why not save our futures and
give up one of these habits? You’ll thank
me at our 50th reunion when everyone is
wrinkle and hearing aid- free.

1. Give up loud music—Do you
want to hear when your 40? That’s what
I thought. And by hear I mean without
hearing aids. The solution? Turn down
the music!

Here are the places where you prob-
ably listen to loud music the most:

a. The gym—I understand. I convince
myself that I can only run fast when my
music is loud. Instead of eliminating
music altogether immediately and work-

By Campbell Bu

OPINIONS EDITOR

space your exams and papers over two
day spans rather than having to do two
exams on back to back days. I promise
that by Wednesday, you will be burnt out
by exams, and there is no way you can
crush two exams after you are already
burnt out.
. That being said, nobody likes study-
ing that much on Friday nights. You are
ready for the weekend, and you will be
easily distracted by anything and every-
thing. So, make sure you take your easi-
est exam on Saturday. You can crush it,
and you won’t need to worry about it lat-
er in the week. Plus, once you are done
with the Saturday afternoon exam, you
can successﬁilly...

Celebrate Saturday Night

This is an absolute must. Taking ﬁnal
exams is like taking a girl on a dinner
and movie date: you can’t be successful
if you don’t have anything to look for-
ward to. You won’t put as much effort
into a date if you know you won’t be get-
ting a happy ending, and you won’t put
as much into studying if you know that
once you are done, you will only have
to study more. So, reward yourself for
a hard day’s work by enjoying Saturday
night. I’m not saying that you should
get plastered because you want to have
enough energy to study on Sunday, but
you should still have a good enough time
to say things like “Woah, it’s already De-
cember 2011; time goes by fast.”

Take Your Hardest Final on Mon-
day Afternoon

Under no circumstances do you want
to put off taking your hardest ﬁnal. You
will be close to mentally checked out by
mid-week, and if you have another ﬁnal
hanging over your head, the health cen-
ter might put you on suicide watch. Plus,
all the best study groups and review

sessions meet on Sunday night in the
library. At this point, most students are
focused on studying and not complain-
ing about how hard their week has been.
Plus, you need to take the exam in the af-
ternoon because you will need the extra

strategy is to take coffee in the mom-
ing, a caffeinated beverage (like Moun-
tain Dew Amp!) in the early afternoon,
a 5-hour Energy right after dinner, and
then a beverage of your choice late at
night when the 5-hour starts wearing off.

Taking final exams is like taking a girl on a dinner

and movie date: you can ’t be successful if you don ’t

have anything to look forward to.

 

half day to study for your hardest class.
Furthermore, since you probably slept in
on Sunday, waking up early on Monday
will be that much harder.

Caffeine! Caffeine! Caffeine!

There is signiﬁcant worldwide news
that has gone under the radar in 2011.
Neither the Ring-tum Phi nor the Rock-
bridge Report has given adequate men-
tion to arguably the greatest threat to
grades at Washington and Lee. Accord-
ing to the FDA, there is a nationwide
shortage of Adderall. This means that
around mid to late December, profes-
sors will start complaining that students
at Washington and Lee don’t work as
hard as they used to because the average
test score went down considerably from
the last semester. Due to this panic, the
supply will dwindle even more because
sellers will worry about the possibility of
actually getting their next prescription,
and prices will most likely go through
the roof. And don’t think that Ritalin and
Vivance aren’t getting the same treat-
ment.

Therefore, you will need to take as
much caffeine these next two weeks as
humanely possible ifyou want to survive
the Adderall Armageddon. The basic

Yeah, it’s not exactly a 12-hour amphet-
amine cycle, but what are you going to
do? Not take drugs?

Stay the whole week

I know the prospect of ﬁnishing all
of your exams early and getting out of
school by Tuesday afternoon seems ap-
pealing, but by rushing exams, you won’t
get the grades you ultimately want, and
by leaving early, you miss the best part
of exam week: playing defense against
your most stressed friends. There is noth-
ing quite like drinking a beer and turning
up the television to ﬁill volume on your
off night while your roommate is busy
writing a paper. The passive aggressive
comments and the repeated, “Please, just
stop doing that!” will provide you with
ample entertainment for the night. There
is nothing as beautiful as Schadenfreude.

No F acebook or Twitter

Just deactivate the accounts now. If
any of your tests require online mate-
rial, you know that you will spend way
too much time looking at needless news
feeds instead of studying. Nothing in-
teresting socially happens during ﬁnals
week, and the only people using Face-
book during ﬁnals week are the good for
nothings who are addicted to it and have

avigating through ﬁnals week

nothing better to do. The only social as-
pect of your life that you should be wor-
ried about is staying single. You do not
need a relationship to be distracting you
from your studies at this point.

More importantly, you should not be
tweeting during ﬁnals week. Let’s face
it, you are only going to use it to write
things like “Two exams down, two to go
#mylifeishard #pleasepityme.” You are
only drawing needless attention to your-
self, and your blatant narcissism is only
going to distract you from your studies.
For that matter...

No Video Games

Let’s say that you partied a little too
hard on Saturday night, and as punish-
ment, your roommates locked away your
television and XBOX 360 for a couple
of days. You can either be angry and ag-
gressive at the move, or you can look
at it in a positive way. Maybe, you can
use the time you would spend watch-
ing “Breaking Bad” or playing “Modem
Warfare 3” to do some extra studying.
Just something to think about.

Look, the key to ﬁnals week is mini-
mizing distractions while keeping pro-
ductive incentives intact. If you can do
quality work while watching a marathon
on ABC Family, then by all means go
ahead, but don’t be that kid talking about
fantasy football on the morning of your
history exam, or you’ll be writing essays
about how bullshit it was that Adrian Pe-
terson and Fred Jackson both got injured
on the same weekend when they were
clearly the best running back duo in your
league. By the way, it is total bullshit.

Don’t be a scrub

You’re in college now. You know
what works for you and what doesn’t.
Just don’t be a scrub, and you’ll be able
to successfully enjoy this holiday season.

201 1 and a habit goodbye

ealthy at your college reunion

ing out VMI style, turn down your Ipod
a couple of notches each time you work
out so you gradually become less depen-
dent on it. With the amount of use our
work out room gets, it will be Ipod-free
in no time.

b. Your car—We get it, you think
your sick beats will pick up chicks. But
will you be able to hear when it really

speakers to turn the music down. You’ll
be the coolest dude at the party.

Or...you can just say screw it, turn
the music at parties even louder, invest
in hearing aid manufacturers, and make
bank off of your deaf classmates.

2. Give up Diet Coke—I know, girls,
don’t even get me started. I can’t imag-
ine anything worse. I am addicted.

skinnier because the sugar gives you a
lower tolerance for sweetness than an
artiﬁcial sweetener so you don’t eat as
much. Also, if you give up dark sodas
altogether, you will not have stained
teeth. Drinking a beer while you do your
homework is probably a lot better for
you than throwing back a Diet Coke.

3. Give up using your cell phone-
The cell phone: the easiest way to

Foxy girlfriend: Oh Darwin, I think I should get a new job.

communicate and the easiest way to
avoid communicating to that certain

DeafDarwin.' A b00l)j0l)? Sounds like (1 great idea/(Slap) someone you pass between classes

(convenient that “your mom” just hap-

  pened to call. '  We“, hate to break 

matters? ‘

Foxy girlfriend: Oh Darwin, I think I
should get a new job.

Deaf Darwin: A boob job? Sounds
like a great idea!

(Slap. )

c. Parties—Whether it’s a band party
on Windfall, a basement party with a
DJ, or a late-night dubstep dance sesh,
you are putting your hearing in danger.
You obviously are not going to stay in
to avoid doing damage to your ears, so
you could do one of the following. (1)
Dance at least 20 feet from the speak-

, ers. (2) Stick a little bit of lamb’s wool

into each car. You won’t have any game,
but at least you won’t have to be cued on
when to say “I do” at your wedding. (3)
Tell the band or person controlling the

Over the summer, I chugged cans of
Diet Coke upon returning from runs.
Every day of high school, I bought a
44-ounce fountain soda on the way
home from school and drank additional
cans while I worked. Now I cannot even
keep track of how much I drink out of
the sorority house spout, and I don’t re-
ally want to know.

We are all addicted, but unfortunately,
aspartame—the sugar substitute in Diet
Coke— is dangerous. So be brave and
give it up! I once did for three months,
before I rebounded.

Think about the positives! What is
one of the reasons why we drink Diet
Coke? Because we think it will keep us
skinny. This is false reasoning—drink-
ing regular coke is said to make you

to you, cell phones are like freshmen:
not as cool and innocent as they look.
They may cause brain cancer.

You could plug a home phone into
your off-campus house (“Darnet, Pump-
towns line is giving me a busysignal
AGAIN”), but considering that many
male residents don’t bother ﬁxing the
plumbing or getting rid of the skunk
living under the house, I doubt this will
ever happen.

4. Give up painting your nails—
Scientists suggest that the phthalates in
nail polish may cause infertility. I heard
this when I was 12 and obsessed with
painting my nails, so I began wearing
a facemask while giving myself mani-
cures. Always knew there would be a
second use for mom’s anthrax mask!

5. Give up drinking—Your liver is

s? Campbell Burr oﬂers New Year ’s resolution ideas to help you!

screaming at you every time you drop
your cup back into that grain bucket, ev-
ery time you throw back that Jello shot,
and every time you shotgun that beer...
but what good will ordering a bunch
of kids at College Prowler’s number
two “Most Raging Party School” (West
Virginia beat us...I thought they said
“school”) to stop drinking? Waste of my
time. On to the next one.

6. Give up tanning—You make
think golden skin looks better now, but
wrinkles and cuts where skin cancer has
been removed won’t look" better when
your 50. There’s Botox and faceliﬁs, but
they do not look the same as naturally
taut skin. Don’t forget that skin cancer
can kill you.

But, let me guess, this does not apply
to you because you are seasonally de-
pressed, vitamin-D deﬁcient, white as a
ghost, preparing your skin for your tropi-
cal winter break vacation. . .I don’t want
to hear the excuses. Pale is the new tan!

Now that I have made you aware of
all the self-destructive behaviors you en-
gage in on a daily basis, do not have a
panic attack. Maybe make some adjust-
ments, or maybe just enjoy being young,
hot and functional and forget about the
future. Ignorance can be bliss.

Breaking out of the W&L bubble

In Francesca Wilson is ﬁnal article from Spain, she explains how studying abroad has helped her grow

‘ With just
, over two and
‘ a half weeks
left, my semes-
ter in Madrid
is drawing to
a close. Three
months could
not have ﬂown
by any faster. I
have to admit
that when 1 ar-
rived in Spain
at the beginning
of September,
I was nervous
about living alone in a foreign country
for such an extended period of time.
Nevertheless, as I fell into a routine of
going to classes at the Middlebury insti-
tute, going to Bikram yoga and hanging
out with my newly acquired (and quite
international) friend group, I found that
my stay here is quite limited. While the
past three months have been short, they

ByFranoescaWison
cutumusr

have undoubtedly been the largest period
of personal growth in my life.

In my ﬁrst article, I discussed the im-
portance of feeling uncomfortable. Dur-
ing my freshman and sophomore years
at Washington and Lee, I was rarely un-
comfortable and always well cared for.
For example, if I was ever feeling sick,
the health center was a few minutes
away. If I was working on a research
paper and I needed a speciﬁc source,
Leybum was bound to have it and in
all honesty, Inter-Library Loan requires
very little personal effort besides ﬁlling
out a fonn. And, let's not forget that in
Virginia there isn't a casual language
barrier to deal with.

Here in Spain, I've had to go to the
doctor's office and deal with pesky in-
surance companies, trek twenty-ﬁve
minutes out of my way to look for re-
search sources and had to converse in
Spanish almost the entire time almost
entirely on my own. Ironically, speak-
ing in Spanish provides me with much

less stress than ﬁling insurance claims
and travelling to the other end of Madrid
in search of a particular source. During
these moments of stress, I've broken
down, laughed in irony and gritted my
teeth, all the time trying to remind my-
self that the‘tough moments are the mo-
ments that undoubtedly build character
and personal strength.

It isn't until the end ofa particularly
long day, when I ﬁnd that I'm still stand-
ing, that I realize how much I've grown. I
did not know how to be alone six months
ago, when I packed my bags and depart-
ed sorority row. While I traveled west
to east for university, I've been lucky
to be surrounded by many people with
whom I identify and always had friends
to reach out to if I was ever in need. Dur-
ing my two-year tenure at Washington
and Lee, I never once felt entirely alone.
Throughout my semester abroad not
a day has gone by where I haven't felt
lonely in one sense or another, whether
it is because I feel physically isolated

in my homestay or emotionally isolated
by the language barrier. While this real-
ity may seem daunting, I believe it has
fundamentally changed my character for
the better. Feeling lonely has forced me
to get to know myself and to learn what

(makes me happy because I haven't had

best friends to run to when I've felt in
doubt. I've learned how to make time for
myself and honestly, to solve my own
problems. I have never felt more self-
sufﬁcient. In addition, I've learned how
to live in a big city. I'm comfortable with
the metro, 1 function without a car and
large crowds of people no longer stress
me out. Although this semester has been
a_ period of major life transitions, I ﬁnd
that as it draws to a close I am content,
tranquil and grown-up.

My main goal with these articles has
been to shed some light on my experi-
ence in Spain in the hope that my words
will inspire more Washington and Lee
students to explore past the Lexington
city limits. While W&L has a tremen-

dous amount to offer on campus, I be-
lieve that our school is no match for
what awaits each of us in Europe, Asia,
Latin America, Africa, Australia and the
Middle East. I realize it's easy to get into
the groove of W&L and the idea of leav-
ing our cozy campus is daunting, but I
bet that by the end of sophomore year,
most students could do with a break
from Windfall parties and may be a little
bit sick of alternating between Blue Sky,
Hillel and the occasional Bistro lunch.
Choosing to be uncomfortable for a little
while will only make you fully appre-
ciate what you have to come home to.
Although I have another semester left,
in London, I have to say that my tum-
my started to grumble when I typed the
words "Blue Sky" and I may be in the
mood for a good band party right about
now. With that said, expect to hear from
me in the near future because...London’s
Calling...

 

  

4 .

 

THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2011

opinions

 

 

Reviewing the White Book

Suggestions to the EC: make your work more accesible and transparent to students

By Todd Smith—Schoenwalder
co NT R I B u TO R

“Ifmen were angels, no government
would be necessary.”

Recognizing the truth of Madison’s
assertion, the Washington and Lee stu-
dent body has elected an Executive
Committee that serves as enforcers of
the Honor System. The White Book, our
equivalent of a constitution, essentially
guides the lZC’s procedures, thereby
establishing a relative “check” on its
power. Every several years, the EC ap-
points students to a White Book Review
Committee. Recently, I applied for a
position on this board. In my applica-
tion, I suggested some modiﬁcations to

Book by a two-thirds vote of the quo-
rum present in two consecutive votes,
provided that such votes are at least
one week apart.” Curiously, the White
Book describes the only direct amend-
ment process of itselfto be in the hands
ofthe EC. Notice that there is no equiv-
alent ofa public referendum.

Suppose that you conceive a brilliant
improvement to the White Book. You
create a petition supported by hundreds
of signatures. You initiate a school-wide
vote, and your idea garners the major-
ity of votes! Unfortunately, this changes
nothing. Even though the students,

Honor means doing the morally conventional and right

thing, regardless of beneﬁts or consequences.

our charter document, which were not
well received. I am certain, however,
that those chosen for the White Book
Review Committee will respectfully
carry out their duty in the manner our
EC envisions.

As a student who lives by our Honor
System, I believe it is my duty to write
this article in order to stimulate proac-
tive discussions concerning the White
Book as it presently exists. I deem it to
be deﬁcient in two ways. Therefore. I
offer the following suggested reforms.

The ﬁrst of these ideas relates to
the following passage from the White
Book: “The Executive Committee may
adopt such an amendment to the White

True Life:

Students and
faculty mem-
bers reported
multiple sight-
ings of Santa
Claus at Vari-
ous locations on
campus and off
school grounds
during the past
week.
accounts have
been conﬁrmed
by the Division
of Student Af-
fairs, which has
recorded 12 individual incidents to date.

The ﬁrst sighting took place on Nov.
28, when ﬁrst-year Buddy Elphe report-
ed seeing a man dressed in a red wool
suit, velvet cap, and black buckle boots
running down the Colonnade.

“It was the ﬁrst day back from
Thanksgiving break, and I was sitting in
the middle in my writing seminar when
all of a sudden I see this random guy lit-
erally booking it down the Colonnade,”
said Elphe. “At ﬁrst I thought he was

 

By Cynthia Lam
COLUMNIST

These 1

those truly upholding the Honor Sys-
tem, embrace the amendment, the White
Book states that only the EC can alter
our legal statutes. Essentially, we’ve
given total judicial, executive, and leg-
islative power to a few elected ofﬁcials.
Madison argues that such encompass-
ing power is the “very deﬁnition of tyr-
anny.” However, I cannot in good con-
science deem any member of the EC as
tyrannical. But, the ﬂaw still exists. Let
it be rectified by adding an amendment
to the White Book that provides:

If a student submits a petition of at
least ﬁve hundred signatures to the Ex-
ecutive Committee regarding an amend-
ment to the White Book, a vote will then

be held among the student body in a
timely fashion. If either two-thirds of
those voting or the majority of the stu-
dent body polls in favor of the amend-
ment, then this student body-led process
amends the White Book, thereby by-
passing the Executive Committee.

Undoubtedly, such an amendment
process would modestly reduce the
EC’s highly centralized power over the
Honor System, and grant due voting
rights to the student body.

The second idea involves a concept
regarding both accountability and trans-
parency. The EC‘s initial “closed trial” is
one shrouded in mystery. All involved
are bound by vows of secrecy, allow-
ing the EC’s actions to go unchecked.
Nowhere in a civilized courtroom does
this “black box” method exist. Even the
US. Supreme Court produces video of
its proceedings.

Transparency allows for citizens
to become more involved with legal
procedures, thus producing a more en-
gaged body ofcitizens as a whole. They
can access the dissenting and majority
opinion of the Court itself, as well as
documents that help to shape the ﬁnal
opinion, such as briefs ﬁled by amicus

' curiae. If the student body is to be le-

gitimately involved in the implementa-
tion oftheir own system, the present re-
strictive construction ofour White Book
must be altered.

Clearly, it is critical that this new,
participatory Honor System have a
foundation of pellucidity. Yet surface-
level implications arise from this argu-
ment. Does one publish the votes of

I go to Dubyunhell

Students report Santa Clause sightings on Washington and Lee campus

going to streak or something, but then
I remembered that it was 3 in the after-
noon, and who would do that in broad
daylight? He was also wearing way too
much to do that.”

According to Elphe, the mysterious
‘man was also carrying a giant burlap
sack over his shoulder.

“He had this enormous bag on his
back - I have no idea where he got
it from - but I’m pretty sure I saw the
sleeve of a blue W&L sweatshirt hang-
ing out, and some Vineyard Vines bags
and a couple of bow ties in there, too,”
Elphe said, noting that she reported the
suspicious activity to authorities imme-
diately that day. “It looked like he had
the entire school store stuffed inside that
sack. Call me crazy, but I know what I
saw.”

Elphewho rln fact, the thought that
this individual could have been Santa
Claus did not occur to him until offi-
cials at the Division of Student Affairs
suggested the possibility, after creating
a character sketch of the man based on
Elphe’s descriptions.

“This person did seem rather famil-

tothe editor

I am a silent reader ofthe Ring-Tum-
Phi, an advocate for honesty and fair-
ness, and subscriber to Christianity. But,
I cannot remain silent any longer about
the hypocrisy that has entrenched itself
in media, politics, and students minds.

I would like to use a recent article,
“Defending Gay Marriage” by Ali
Greenberg, to illustrate my point. Cer-
tainly, I am not advocating one way or
another on gay marriage, however, the
language Ms. Greenberg uses is indica-
tive of a growing social problem — the
use of demeaning, condescending, and
utterly useless language to attack the
opposition by liberal thinkers. To be
sure, both sides ofthe proverbial politi-

cal aisle use wildly unfair characteriza-
tions of one another, but this nuanced
attacked is different.

Ms. Greenberg writes: “At the end of
the day, [gay marriage] is a moral issue,
but not the kind that the religious zealots
would like you to believe.”

This is the type ofargument structure
that Liberals love to use. Rather than
make a cohesive argument, they resort
to attacking individual‘s backgrounds
or religious beliefs. The argument for
abortion, gay marriage, and many other
issues are played out this way.

Many Christians believe in Creation-
ism or Intelligent design. Liberals call
this idiotic or Bible thumping. Many

iar, especially because it is not the ﬁrst
time we’ve had to deal with something
like this,” said Director of Student Af-
fairs Nicholas Carol. “As a matter of
fact, we’ve had several encounters with
Mr. Claus in the past, which usually in-
volved him showing up on campus and
making some sort of appearance.
actually become quite a tradition. The
reason we do not normally draw atten-
tion to this is because we do not want
students to be distracted from their stud-
ies, especially in the weeks leading up to
ﬁnal exams.” .

While Carol welcomed the festive
visits from Santa, he expressed his con-
cern about the timing of the most recent
encounter: “I am a little surprised with
how early Mr. Claus showed up this
year... normally students report seeing
him during the ﬁrst week of Decem-
ber, but never in November. Hopefully
this development will not interfere with
scheduled campus activities.”

According to the Division of Stu-
dent Affairs, the number of sightings
increased steadily throughout the week,
becoming progressively more public

conservatives do not believe in gay mar-
riage. Don't tell a liberal or you’ll be
called a “bigot." Many conservatives
believe in cutting spending to certain
entitlement programs. Well, be careful
or you'll be called a fascist or worse,
a “racist." So we have an abundance
of conservative or Christian Americans
who remain silent for fear that voicing
our moral beliefs will lead to verbal at-
tacks.

A recent example shows the height of
this hypocrisy. Two weeks ago, Repub-
lican candidate for President Michele
Bachmann went on the .limmy Fallon
show. The walk on song chosen was en-
titled “Lyin‘ A**  with offensive

Good lu
exams, y

It’s a

each closed trial? No, the votes are use-
less without the case itself. What if a
detailed account of the trial, with names
of those involved stricken out, is pub-
lished alongside the votes? No, the ac-
cused could be easily identiﬁable within
our small community merely from the
other details of the case.

Therefore, I propose the following:
allow the accused the option to open his
or her “closed” trial to the student body.
All current aspects of the closed trial
would remain the same, except students
could sit in for the entire trial. The EC
would still act as adjudicators; however,
now some light would be shed on their
otherwise clandestine practices. We
must realize that the option of a trans-
parent legal system is a fundamental
civil right among advanced societies
such as ours.

The notion that a governing docu-
ment precludes the accused from having
this right is perhaps the most inherently
unjust of all. By decreeing that ano-
nymity is in each student’s best interest,
the White Book patronizes the entire
student body and certainly the accused
student. Proponents of this method
claim that an aceused’s identity must
be kept anonymous, as the student’s
reputation would be tarnished merely
because of the accusation itself. I ar-
gue that if a member of our community
wants his or her EC trial accessible to
the student body, then a refusal of this
simple request is a mockery of any no-
tion of due process. The EC disagrees
with my core belief that the closed trial
should offer open doors to all, but refut-

   
 
 
  

with each new encounter.

“I was grabbing coffee from the
Co-op when this bearded guy suddenly
comes in whistling ‘Jingle Bells,’ and
orders a glass of wann milk and a platter
of sugar cookies. Like, who "even gets
that?” said junior Cindy-Lou Hoo. “And
then he walks out laughing, saying ‘Ho,
ho, ho, and to all a good night! ’ in this gi-
ant booming voice. I was so confused.”

Students also reported feelings of be-
ing observed by an unidentiﬁed man in
D-hall.

“l was just eating my breakfast one
moming, minding my own business,
when I felt a pair of eyes boring into my
back, like someone was watching me. I
turned around and there’s this grandpa
staring at me and scribbling furiously
into his notepad. He was mumbling
something about ‘naughty’ and ‘nice.’
Not gonna lie, it kind of creeped me
out,” said ﬁrst-year Kris Kingle.

The most prevalent number of sight-
ings happened on Wednesday night,
when nine different students described
separate encounters with the same man
in the countryside.

lyrics characterizing women as “sluts“
numerous times. Members of the band
tweeted that it was a “perfect ent ong
for her” that they had clued viewers in
on the song choice prior to the show on
Twitter. This situation is utterly reptil-
sive and offensive. A woman running
for president was given this sort oftreat-
ment on TV. Yet. very few people have
reported on it. No apology was issued.
I lypocrisy abounds.

I can guarantee that if Nancy Pelosi
went on FOX News and a similar cir-
cumstance occurred, the media would
be up in arms about the bigotry and 
ism. But not when it‘s a Christian eon-
servative.

ing the right of the accused to make this
so infringes on a civil liberty.

Finally, consider what the accused
student stands to gain from opening his
or her closed trial to the public. Hon-
or Advocates will be better prepared
knowing they are being scrutinized not
only by the EC but also by an intelli-
gent and discerning student presence.
The EC, now removed from secrecy,
will more carefully reach its ﬁnal ver-
dict when acting before its constituents,
the student body. Finally, the EC itself
can gain from this amendment simply
because its members can now publicly
demonstrate how engaged and compas-
sionate they are in the case before them.

The underlying premise of these two
ideas is both practical and philosophi-
cal. We must learn to challenge a sys-
tem unopposed, if only because history
shows that government will not chal-
lenge a structure to which it answers.
Therefore, is it not strange that we hold
our current Honor System to be perfect
and sacrosanct?

No system, even one based upon
“time-honored tradition,” can be ﬂaw-
less. I implore you to actively seek

these changes and produce conversa-
tion among your peers concerning the
validity of the current White Book. In
order to foster an open discussion of
these issues, I ask the EC to respond to
my concerns through a public forum.

swear I saw Santa.
Everyone was wearing these

tacky holiday sweaters and red suits, but
this dude was the real deal,” said senior
Ebenezer Scott. “Trust me, I know what
I saw. I swear I ran into the Three Wise
Man, it was such a crazy

Men, too.
night.”

On-site campus staff also noted vari-
ous incidents which may be related to

the recent Santa sightings.

“All of the holiday decorations and
ornaments just randomly showed up in
the Commons one day... it literally hap-
pened over night. I had no idea how the
wreaths and Christmas trees got there,
but this explains it,” said Student Life
Coordinator Jack Frost. A

According to Carol, the encounters
should continue until the beginning of
ﬁnals week.

“For some reason, the sightings’ al-
ways stop once they reach 25 times... so
expect Santa to keep on appearing until
then. Who knows where he could show
up next?” he said.

Ce iii v the rhetoric on both sides
of the at. e can be toned down. But dis-
counting individuals using loaded terms
like bigot, zealot, or racist is wrong. The

act that I omit my name from this
emanates that same fear of criti-
cism from the left that I will be called a
bigot or a crazy Christian. Ms. Green-
berg, tell me why my moral beliefs
should be changed, don‘t tell me that I
am misguided simply because I am reli-
gious. Its time have reasoned debate
and honest discussion.

Deo Adiuva nte

  

‘a

  

CI

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2011

- THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

arts&|i

fe

New “noms” in LeXVegas

John Blackburn is second restaurant, Pure Eats, features burgers, doughnuts and locally-produced foods

By Stephanie Krasnov
STA F F W R IT E R

A new restaurant occupying the blue
roofed cottage of 107 North Main St.
is thriving by selling mouth-watering
burgers and decadent doughnuts. Pure
Eats opened during September of this
year, and owner John Blackburn plans to
make his second restaurant a hit.

As a small town that relies heavily
upon the business of college students,
restaurants in Lexington come and go
quickly. Blackburn, who also co-owns
the Red Hen in Lexington, seems to
know how to keep his restaurants thriv-
ing.
“I’m a big believer in the purity and
integrity of the food,” Blackburn said.
Although their menu may be small (12
items), the quality of the food is the
highest.

Many restaurants may offer larger
menus, but this is why Blackburn thinks
they may have failed in the past.

“You can’t do everything,” he said.
Instead, Pure Eats has radically simpli-
ﬁed a menu, “to things we can do excep-
tionally well.”

Their menu includes burgers, veggie
burgers, sweet potatoe and regular fries,
chips, deep fried potato salad, dough-
nuts, milkshakes, coffee, and soft drinks.

The name Pure Eats originates from
an old oil company named Pure Oil.
Pure Oil used to be one of the largest oil
companies in the country, and in the late
1920s, they began building service sta-
tions in what is known as the “English
Cottage Style.”

The Pure Eats building is one of the
best examples remaining in the U.S. of
the English Cottage style Pure Oil sta-
tion. It still has the original roof on it,
“that crazy, blue enamel tile.”

The iconic Pure Eats logo was ad-
opted from the old Pure Oil logo as well.

Pure Eats is open from 7:30 a.m. until
8 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and
11 a.m. until 8 p.m. on Sundays.

Doughnuts are baked each morning
by chef Katrina Ulrich. She comes in at
5:30 a.m. and bakes fresh cake dough-
nuts. Ulrich, who grew up in a doughnut
shop, invents all of the ﬂavors, ranging

from classic cinnamon sugar to Oreo
chocolate dipped, and even margarita.

“Her passion is doughnuts,” Black-
burn said.

The ﬁrst restaurant that Blackburn
opened was the Red Hen, also located in
Lexington. Washington and Lee junior
and Red Hen waitress Ali Greenberg re-
ferred to Pure Eats as the “younger sis-
ter” of the Red Hen. They both share the
same philosophy on local ingredients yet
cater to different crowds.

Blackburn says that one of the things
he loves most about Pure Eats is that it’s
open all the time and the following they
have generated. Its sort of “anybody and
everybody, and at Red Hen it’s a certain
clientele.”

The pricing of the menu and casual
atmosphere is what makes Pure Eats ap-
pealing to a much wider audience than
the Red Hen.

“I like having a place where anybody
feels comfortable coming in,” Blackburn
said.

Although Pure Eats has a seemingly

W&L dancers take

Students to perform this Tuesday and Wednesday, showcasing their own

By Paige Gance
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR

The Theatre and Dance Department
will present W&L Dancers Create...,
an entirely student choreographed, de-
signed, and performed production,‘at 7
p.m. in the Keller Theatre this Tuesday
and Wednesday.

The show will feature ll different
student pieces and a guest composition
from Zaq Lawal ‘I0, which will include
a number of duets and group works
staged by troops of eight to 13 dancers.
These selections will exhibit various el-
ements of dance, ranging from jazz to
rock & roll to Kathak, an Indian classi-
cal dance.

Jenefer Davies, Assistant Professor
of Dance, organized the program and
said every student contributed an aver-
age of 70 hours toward the show, taking

on tasks normally completed by faculty
and staff.

“The purpose of this production is
to highlight student work. It was cre-
ated to celebrate our student dancers and
the amazing talent they contribute to the
W&L campus. It’s also a very practical
outcome of a semester’s worth of creat-
ing, critiquing, rehearsing and refining
student dance works,” said Davies. “In
addition to creating and performing the
dances, students researched and edited
the music, are stage managing, working
lighting and sound as well as backstage
and marketing it.”

Junior Jennifer Ritter, a student cho-
reographer, said, “[This] really allows
us... to explore and experiment with
dances that we have been thinking about.

The purpose is to expose all of the cho-
reographers and dancers to working with
their peers and learning to adapt to each
other’s different styles. And plus, it’s
just fun for us to be able to perform and
show each other’s choreography for the
W&L community.”

Ritter developed two individual cre-
ative pieces, The Experiment and Wan-
derings, which delve into the lyrical
movement of time and space.

“Choreographing is always a scary
experience at ﬁrst for me, because I never
know how things are going to go... how-
ever, it is always so much fun getting to
know and work with the dancers and in
the end, it all works out and a dance has
been made,” said Ritter. “The best mem-
ories are made in rehearsals where we

equal following among the community
and college students, Blackburn said
they realized just how important stu-
dents were over Thanksgiving break.

“When the students went away
last week we realized how much a
part of business our students are,” he
said.

Washington and Lee senior Eliza-
beth Stames says that the reason she
chooses Pure Eats over other restaurants
is because “The food is fresh and of a
good quality, and the establishment is 10-
cally owned.”

Some think that the prices are a bit
steep, but as Stames noted, “If I wanted
to get a cheap burger and fries I would
go to Wendy’s or McDonalds.”

“We serve our meet fresh,” Black
burn said. “We pick it up from Charlie
Potter, the man who «raised the cattle,
three or four days a week.”

For anyone still caught up on the size
of their menu, Pure Eats plans to expand
this winter. Blackburn is looking forward
to introducing soups and stews as the

 
 
 
  
  
        

weather
gets cold— er, and even
possibly a breakfast biscuit.
When walking into the restaurant
today a patron commented, “It’s a great
place! People seem to really like it!”
But don’t let him be the only judge,
go to Pure Eats today and try it for your-
self. Blackburn aims to please, “I want
everything to just blow your mind”

the stage

choreography and designs

just get to become better friends while
sharing our passion for dance.”

According to Susan Wager, Assis-
tant Director of Lenfest Center, W&L
Dancers Create... began last year as an
opportunity for the W&L Repertory
Dance Company members to perform
and preview their choreographed works
in anticipation of the upcoming grand
production in March, which will feature
professional pieces in addition to student
compositions selected from this concert.

“Last year the performance was
packed by an overwhelmingmajority of
students and dedicated dance patrons,”
said Wager. “This year we anticipate an-
other full house.”

Davies stated that the ultimate goal of
the concert was to raise awareness about

the talent and creativity of the student
dancers throughout the school-wide and
local community. Davies said, “I hope
that audiences take away something that
changes their perception, makes them
think or challenges them in some way.
I hope they have a great time and feel
compelled to attend a dance concert
again. Eventually, it is my hope that they
realize the necessity of the arts in our
lives.”

Admission is free and opento the
public, although there is a suggested do-
nation of $10 to defray costs of partici-
pation in the American College‘ Dance
Festival.

FRIDAY
Dec. 9th

8a.m. - 7 pm.

WASHINGTON and LEE

uN1vERsi.;ryp STORE

     

 ‘ks



 

r.

 in store purchases!

Sale applies tbpggrclzases in the store.
"*1;

’ 2 technology, and selected items)

 

 

  
     
    
   

  

for upfo 50%
of the new price!

  Dec» 8-9        9141*’
Dec  
DEC  
  Dec. 17  

 

   

    

Last year, the University put over $250,000 in the 
students at our buyback! Pius, with every book on Sold you 
« helped the University offer more used books to your Fél ow ! 

    

 

   

O

«-

MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2011

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

ALEXANIDIZII MAl{AGOS

It’s been a while since I’ve last shared my thoughts, so let .
me catch you up on what I have been watchingon TV the last
few weekends: The Green Bay Packers. For those who have
managed to avoid Green Bay — which is easier to do with the

city than the team - I’ll get you caught up on what the defending I

champs are doing these days.

sports

t"l‘El’Illil I PECK

Out of curiosity, I looked up what the odds are that the
Green Bay Packers go undefeated the rest of the way in the
regular season. After perusing more greasy sports gambling
web sites than is probably healthy, I came across an article by
Wunderdog Sports (seems legit) that broke down the Pack’s
‘ chances in-depth.

The article examined the projected lines for each of their

5

I’ll start by reminding everyone that the Packers are really
stinkin’ good. I think their 12-0 record is the only evidence I
need. Second, I want to remind you how good the league’s best
player and my.MVP vote (if I had a real one), Aaron Rodg-
ers, has been. If Drew Brees’ passing performances were not
shattering the record books, Rodgers would be named MVP by
professional writers without second thought. Finally, let me tell
you that the Packers have had a relatively easy schedule to help
defend the Super Bowl crown that they won last year.

All we heard immediately after the Super Bowl last year

The Green Bay Packers are still undefeated
after 12 games, and some are predicting a
, erfect 16-0 record for the team. Others,

t ough, are still skeptical and ‘expect them
to trip up somewhere between here and the

Lombardi trophy.

Alex and Stephen add their two cents. 1

remaining games (-7 vs. OAK, -11 @KC, -7 vs. CH1, -7 vs.
DET), translated them into money lines, then translated those
ﬁgures into chances of winning percentages (86% vs. OAK,
90% vs. KC, 75% vs CHI, 75% vs. DET). Then doing some
higher math (multiplying those percentages together), it was
determined that the Packers have a 43% chance of going un-
defeated.

What does that say? Going undefeated is really hard to do.
Green Bay is 12-0, clearly the class ofthe league, and only has
four games left, two against teams they already beat and two

was: the Lombardi Trophy is coming home. Yeah, it did, but it

might be renting another year of space in the lobby of Lambeau Field if the Packers maintain
this high level of play. I know the playoffs are a different animal, just ask the 2007 New Eng-
land Patriots, but I don’t see anyone taking down the Packers this year.

Before the 201 1 season began, you might remember that I warned everyone to watch out
for the Packers this year. They won the Super Bowl last season with over a dozen players on
Injured Reserve. Coming into the season healthy, I knew Green Bay could do some serious
damage. And so far, they have delivered.

The Pack has had a favorable remaining schedule in 2011 to say the least. Looking back
on the season, their toughest test came on opening night against the Saints. That 42-34 win
started a full throttle and so far undefeated 2011 campaign. The Packers have only improved
over the course of this year, and aside from a small scare against the Chargers, have been on
cruise control.

In Week 14, they face the Oakland Raiders, who is surging thanks to the Bengals’ master-
ful Christmas re—gift of Carson Palmer. Still, Oakland is giving up over 374 yards of total
offense going into Week 13. I don’t see Aaron Rodgers and the rest of the offense tripping up
at home against that defense.

After the Oakland game, Green Bay visits currently 4-7 Kansas City, then will host Chi-
cago on Christmas Day and Detroit the next week to close out the regular season. I could
pull the Chicago—Meatball—Fan Card (they’re not hard to get) and predict that the Bears will
steamroll the Packers in their own building, providing the city with the best Christmas pres-
ent ever. Or would the Bulls beating the Lakers in LA on that same day be better? Flip a coin.
In any case, I couldn’t bring myselfto predict such foolishness even if Jay Cutler did not have
a broken thumb.

That leaves the Lions to defend the gates against a total Green Bay takeover for NFL su-
premacy.  Now in years past, I would rather have the best NCAA team

R‘ playing this game instead of the Lions. However, this
year they’re a really good team that is in the hunt for
‘ an NFC Wild Card berth. Still, even if the Pack-
. ers rest their starters—-something we usually hear
. from the Colts and Patriots year after year--the
Lions might not be able to stop the Packers.
Green Bay would be smart to rest Aaron
Rodgers and several other starters
toward the end of the season, but this
team is so sharp, quick, talented and
healthy, that they will play like they
have nothing to lose.

     
 

  

against teams that far inferior. And yet the odds still aren’t in
their favor. And rightly so, because I don’t believe they will ﬁnish 16-0.

Looking at their remaining games, the Packers seem like a lock to be 14-0 by week 16.
They host Oakland next weekend, then travel to Kansas City the week after. Both games
should get ugly quick.

But the week after that, the Chicago Bears travel to Lambeau Field on Christmas Day.
With llay Cutler at quarterback, I actually think Chicago can take this one. They have a
bruising defense, a stud running back in Matt Forte and a highly accurate, strong-armed
quarterback. They match up well, especially ifthere are unfavorable conditions and they
are forced to run the ball. And Chicago will really need this game to keep their wild card
hopes alive. The Pack could easily lose this game, especially if they decide to rest guys in
the second half. But I don’t see them resting guys in this game, and they certainly won’t
lose if Caleb Hanie is at quarterback for Chicago.

So that means that Green Bay will be 15-O headed into their match up with Detroit in the
last week ofthe season. I was at Ford Field for the Thanksgiving Game. I wouldn’t even call
it a game. It was a complete debacle. The Lions couldn’t do a single thing right. They out
gained the Packers by a significant margin in the ﬁrst half, but a terrible interception deep in
Detroit’s own end by Matthew Stafford gift wrapped a touchdown for the Packers. Stafford

“(and his broken ﬁnger) threw two more picks. The Lions didn’t take any shots downﬁeld.

Their two top defensive backs, Louis Delmas and Chris Houston, both got hurt, depleting
the secondary to the point where Rashied Davis, a wide receiver, had to play safety against
Aaron Rodgers. They took dumb, costly penalties. And to cap it all off, Ndamukong Suh
decided that it was a good idea to stomp on an opponent on national television. I’m not say-
ing Detroit lost that game as opposed to Green Bay winning it, but they sure made it a lot
easier for the Pack. 1 still think the Lions match up very well with the Packers. They have a
lethal passing game, the best receiver in football (MEGATRON), and a defensive line that
is among the league’s best and will be hungry to exact revenge.

In short, this game means a lot to the Lions. They might need to win it to make the play-
offs and they really want to show the Packers that Thanksgiving was a fluke. I don’t know if
I would let Aaron Rodgers play the second half ofa meaningless game for the Packers and
risk letting Suh try and decapitate him. I see the Lions winning this game.

The thing that might make the Packers go undefeated, is if Rodgers convinces Coach
Mike McCarthy not to rest him and instead let him go after some records. Aaron has a
shot to break Marino’s single season passing yardage total of 5,084 (Rodgers is on pace
for 5,054), Brees’ completion percentage record of 70.6 percent (Rodgers stands at 71.8),
Brady’s' touchdown record of 50 (Rodgers is on pace for 48), and Peyton Manning’s passer
rating record of 130.7 ( Rodgers stands at 127.7).

There is no right answer when it comes to playing or resting players with a perfect sea-
son on the line. The Patriots played their starters in week l7...yet lost in the Super Bowl.
A few years before, the Colts rested their stars. . .and also lost in the Super Bowl.

Whatever Coach McCarthy decides to do, rest some guys or play them all and go for the
perfect season, I think the Lions beat the Packers in the last week. '

But don’t fret Packers fans, you should be happy with a 15-1 regular season record and
another Super Bowl Championship, because nobody is beating you in the playoffs.

. 59/5 making a list, he’s checking it twice

Columnist Pat Smith gives his opinion on which recently controversial sports ﬁgures are naughty and which are nice

ByPatSmith
COLUMNIST

fess, Te (gas a starter‘ thifsse
week); and thatsis the ‘,t1'!1'€hi~, I  uncanny

 

onus in hisiarsenal. He obviously brought hisuone-"look,

; rfivéﬁ/2ird.rpass=_izvith'hirn to the Ifthat isvnot open, ;
,. he runs. -He» also ha‘s;the ability to throwa livei.qu_ail 50 .. _‘
I wnicr:.n‘;ay_ or,may—.no "be caught‘

4 ‘5'ya_rdsj’dow’n theﬁe; M

Iby_his_:onlyreceiver_.Erie.Deel;er. 
J  1Teb0w;ji.is“tbecau‘se~yOj1.’ma e‘the;nic_

 

. ;;neax_1_>I ;wo;ufsi.buy.vyo1;.ta’t;eer. :1 weuldiiitztréven ﬂtiﬁk 
: =to'1WaSté’fth°§¢?Pre¢i<*ii1S SW15 Oﬁtyéur st!1iPid'iifac?3 Just 
 be habpyvroutarevgetting pr¢‘3cIifS=this‘year;--;WhatTini5:
i ',Tel1evv. wantse-ii?c§iIriiSanta?' Asmile,from’.It,heworld, but. 

{ luclcwith that 1gne,:b;o;; it 

 

  
   
 
  
  

ol Vthe,-opposition that he5canifoot_- 3

»_ M ,  " _p p  quite successful.» Upon e,i'étensive’.‘
earch into, his playjiig style, I. have cor‘ne,:.to’}a {eon- V

lusion on.,his‘plan'of'attack; .Teb'ows=has .three.?w'eap'- ,

i'st‘d_oes not .5

more importantly, TeamgPresident, Jlilway. Good I

  
  

itevno

that Joe Patemo was
in the wrong with the
~ ‘ ' whole Penn State Scan-
 ’ He turned his shoulder to a

' plethora of disturbing allegations. His bla-

Everybody knows ‘

  

tant lack of action is not copacetic and lands A

hirnat the top of Santa’s naughty list.
. Paterno’s poor actions, or lack there of,

' leaves him retired and at home with his wife
A of 49 years. Santa apities you, Mr. Patemo.

You are now a lonely man, and Santa is feel-
ing quite merciful. ‘He has decided to grant

‘ you. one giﬁ so, that you can cope with your,

"current situation: an Apple iPad 2.
1, They aresweet, trust me. » Joe, imagine
thatyou are holding your lameclipboard.

' Now imagine that your clipboard can do

iqui/te literally ANYTHING. The possibili-

.: it"e’s are endless. You can watch documenta-

/ries, on The.Great Depression or The Indus-
‘trial Revolution, schedule an appointment

 your physician, even look up informa-
.tion* to see EXACTLY what medications you
1 are prescribed.) Even ﬁends deserve some
0. love from Santa once in a while.

-of Duty,” do you want lfiI16.tO,i(-v33l’l'V'li‘l1IVlﬁI

fooling  any _

when you say tha 
H stomphwas Zuni _
ten~ _ tional. It’s really  1’
fortable to stomp with one leg ou_t‘_at S1
45° angle, right? I have a little C01j_1_S‘_
who throws a ﬁt when he losesin “Cal

up and ask him to. give you 
There is proper protocol to'.th,rowirr ,
a temper tantrum on tl_1eﬁeld,
Albert Haynesworth. ‘ V’  ’

Suh is a monster," do no . g ,_ H
wrong. He is one of the hardest hit
ting defensive linemen in the leagu 3
and can tackle Greg Jennings.  A
a broken leg. S_o what does Ndarn
kong Suh want from Santa. 'de_
coal? Since he has a lifetime su A if
Subway, sandwiches and  1
hicles, this -is a bit tough to “say.” th ,_
it would be appropriate to gethi '0
world’s smallest violinlso, he can ‘sghi ,
up and get back to playing c"le_an; '
football. No Fun League, remernb ii I‘

      
    
   
  
  
   
    
    
   
  
   
   
   
  

 

   

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY,

DECEMBER 5,2011

 

SpO rt

ondeck

l

 

Jrl_

 

MON Turs WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
Southern
Wrestling Virginia
7pm
I VS
Me“ Guilford
Basketball 7'30Pm
Women's V5_
Hollins
Basketball 5pm
Men's
Swimming
Women's
Swimming
Men's
X—Country
Women's
X-Country

in the numbers
13

Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton has rushed for
this many touchdowns this season, which marks a new record
for rushing touchdowns by a quarterback. The rookie scored
his 11th, 12th and 13th TDs in the Panthers 38-19 rout of the
Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The previous record (12) was set by

Steve Grogan in 1976.

0-12  

The Indianapolis Colts record this season.The Colts are the
sixth team to start with 12 losses since the NFL went to a 16-
game schedule in 1978. Their most recent loss came in the form
ofa 31 -24 ﬁnal score against the New England Patriots. To their
credit, the Colts rallied from a 31 -3 deﬁcit but inevitably ran out

of time.

66

The number of games each NBA team will play this season
after losinga signiﬁcant portion of the season to the well-doc-
umented |ock—out. Each team usually plays 82 regular season

games every year.

16

The total number of national titles claimed by LSU’s and Ala-
bama’s football teams, and with the two teams facing off for
this year's title, that number will soon change to 17. Alabama

claims 13 while LSU claims 3.

soapbox

"I believe I misspoke very badly in my
response to the allegations that have been
made. Ishou/dn’t have questioned what the
accusers expressed or their motives. I am
really sorry that I did that, and I regret any

harm that I caused.”

-—syracuaebasIra1baII headooachJIm Boehelm apolodzed
forearllercommems lashlngoutatlndlvldualswhoare
aocuslngfonnerasooclalnheadcoach Bemlo Flneofsaanial
molesutlon.

“They won the game and stormed the ﬁeld

   

and ripped down the goalposts and some
were jumping off the stands and hit the
ﬁeld and others got trampled. It was a

nasty deal. ”

--FoIloMruOIdahorna8uta’s44-10wInovarrlnl
0Idahorria.1ho08Ufansnialiedtho1|old.AtIeast12wara
tmmplednhreopeoploworutriautodforlnluriesattho
stadlumandonefanhadtioboalﬂlflndtioalioepltnl.

By Leigh Dannhouser
STAFF WRITER

Two school records were set by the Wash-
ington and Lee men‘s track and ﬁeld team
as they kicked off their season at the Liberty
Kickoff meet this weekend. The Generals
were competing against NCAA Division 1, 11
and 111 teams.

Sophomore Dillon Myers and ﬁrst-year
Aaron Jeong both set their records on the day
two of the meet, which took place on both
Friday and Saturday. Myers broke the school
heptathlon record while Jeong broke the
school 60m dash record.

Myers began -his record setting perfor-
mance on Friday, competing in the 60m dash,

By Angela Williams
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee women’s track and
ﬁeld team showcased old and new talent as
they took part in the Liberty Kickoff meet
last weekend. The meet included NCAA
Division 1, 11 and 111 teams, but the Gener-
als’ performances were compared only to
other Div. 111 teams.

Nine athletes combined for 14 top four
performances in Div. III. This included six
number one performances.‘

F irst-year Janey Fugate was one of

First—year Caroline Hamp’s (Avon Lake,
Ohio/Elyria Catholic) school—record in the
100 ﬂy highlighted the Washington and
Lee women’s swim team’s second-place
ﬁnish at the two-day F&M Invitational on
Sunday afternoon.

. W&L totaled 625 points and trailed
lonly California University of Pennsylva-
inia’s 883.5 points. The Generals were fol-
, lowed by F&M (542.5), Kutztown (463.5),
.5 St. Mary’s (442), Susquehanna (268.5),
Ramapo (173.5), McDaniel (108.5), Wash-
ington College (51) and King’s (7-).

V Hamp took third in the 100 fly and set
la new school record with a time of 59.23,
breaking the old mark of 59.54 previously
held by Brittany Ross ‘l3.

The Generals’ lone event win came in

opponent

Wesley
Roanoke
Randolph

.seu_r.i n  

Men 3* track and field ikic/rs oﬁ its seas

men’shaskethall

 

longjump, shot put, and highjump. After day
one he tallied 2,242 points.

On Saturday Myers competed in the 60m
hurdles, pole vault, and ﬁnished off his day
with the 1000 meter run. After totaling the
points for all seven events he scored 4,028.
This is eight points more than the previous
record.

Jeong broke the 60m dash record Satur-
day morning. He ran a time of 7.03 seconds
to place second among Division 111 athletes.
The previous record had been 7.19 seconds.

Myers and Jeong were just a couple of
the successful performances laid out by the

W&L’s top scorers. She won the 400m
dash for Div. III with a time of 1 :01 .26. Her
efforts also placed her third out of competi-
tors from all three divisions.

Fugate was also a member of the
4x400m relay that placed ﬁrst in Division
III competition. Jillian Katterhagen, Jenni-
fer Friberg, and Lauren Woodie joined her
in the etfort, running a time of 4:12.00.

Other Div. 111 winners include Katter—
hagen in the pole vault with a height of

the 200 free, as sophomore Meredith Har-
dy (Cary, N.C./Athens Drive) won with a
time of 1:56.04. 

Senior Jocelyn Cassada (Charlotte,
N.C./Charlotte Country Day), senior Dana

,Fredericks (Yorktown, Va./York), Hamp

and Hardy took second in the 400 medley‘
relay (4:03.06) and the 200 medley relay

team of Cassada, Fredcricks, Hamp and.

junior Izzy Brassﬁeld (Greensboro, N.C./
Greensboro Day School) also placed sec-
ond in 1:51.87.

Fredericks added a third-place ﬁnish in
the 100 breast (1 :08.97), Hardy took fourth
in the 100 free (56.40) and Cassada tied for
third in the200 back with a time of 2: 1 1 .09.

In the 100 back, Cassada and senior Ka-
tie Salvati (Roselle Park, N.Y./Mount Saint

event date result
Ohio Northern Invit. 12/03 28th of 45

date result .

11/26 W88-81 9

lmowna h kthﬂ

12,0, L M, WlllllBllS HS 8 E1
opponent date result
Colorado Col. 11/26 L 68-48
Randolph-Macon 12/04 W72-63

 
  

r

on with a young team and an abundance of talent

men’s team. Senior Tyler Grant and sopho-
mores Zander Tallman, Mac Keers, Parker
Howard, and David Fishman all put in top
three performances in Division 111.

Grant placed second in the‘ 800m run
while Tallman, Keers, and Howard took the
top three spots in the 400m dash. Fishman
placed second in the pole vault.

The Generals will be back on the track
after the holiday break. They will travel to
Marietta, Ohio for the Marietta Open on
Jan. 14.

F irsl-years give the Gennies a boost as they open their new season with 6 wins

10’4” and Marissa Thompson with a score
of 2781 in the pentathlon. Mary Kamp and
Leigh Dannhauser tied for ﬁrst in the high
jump with heights of 4’ 1 1 ”.

The women will next be heading to
Marietta, Ohio with the men’s team on Jan.
14 for the Marietta Open.

 

Mary Academy) took fourth and ﬁfth with
times of 1:00.17 and 1200.83, respectively.

Cassada, Brassﬁeld, Fredericks and
Hardy teamed up in the 400 free relay to
ﬁnish fourth in 3:39.87,and Hardy, senior
Joanie Hudak (Boxford, Mass./Mascono-
met), sophomore Lauren Kasoff (Owings

‘Mills, Md./Saint Paul’s) and junior Del-

aney Rolfe (Dallas, Texas/Highland Park)
ﬁnished in second V place with a time of
8:00.22. . A

The Generals return to the pool on Janu-
ary 14, when they take part in duel meet at
Bridgewater beginning at 1:00 pm.

   
  
  

wrestling

   
  

 

