 

 

O

Yﬂﬁiiﬁll ‘!"”f"”‘i  "
wR9_;“'l",J|(.fi _ ‘Hi

rm  ~

  Spoiler Alert!“  

  j « oPiNioNs/pagé2ii i5

  Bluegrass ﬁlls Marketplace

  Chatham Co. Line plays at W&L as part of. I
the Common Grounds Live Music Series.

ARTS & LIFE / pages 5 & 6

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 20113 T

THE ST

WASHING'l‘0NA..v‘iDf LEE UNIVERSITY

‘   THE RING-TUM PHI-

IIDEHTS AIIII FBI THE SIUDEIIS SINCE ll-S? VOLUME CXV,NUMBER3

Election time

F irst-years to vote today

By Neil Haggerty
co PY EDITOR

The ﬁrst-year Executive Committee and Student Judicial
Council elections will take place today after candidates gave
speeches Sunday night.

Despite a new Student Affairs initiative this year’ to en-
courage more women to participate, only one woman is run-
ning for the SJC. «

, “As a woman, it was so disheartening to see how male-
dominated the council was in Lee Chapel during O-Week,”
said ﬁrst-year Sommer Ireland. “I am running to add diver-
sity to the blazers and bow ties.”

At this point in time, there is only one undergraduate
woman represented in the EC and zero undergraduate wom-
en on the SJ C.

On Sept. 15, the Women in Student Government Panel
was held for ﬁrst-year women interested in having an impact
on the W&L community.

“Lack of Women in Student Government” has been a
topic of conversation in Student Affairs for several years, ac-
cording to Panhellenic Advisor Teri Cugliari.

“We had a nice size group of ﬁrst-year women [at the
panel],” she said. “It seemed to really motivate them.”

Cugliari said that she thinks there will be some “immedi-
ate results” from the Women in Student Government Panel in
the ﬁrst—year elections, but that “change takes time.”

More women are running for the EC than for the SJC.
Seven women and ten men are currently running for posi-
tions on the EC. ’

During Sunday’s speeches, candidates discussed how
they hope to improve the relationship between the students
at W&L and the Lexington Police and mentioned the impor-
tance of upholding the Honor System if they are elected.

Through F acebook pages and campaign ﬂiers, many ﬁrst
years are trying to gain support from their peers and express
the changes they would like to bring as participants in Stu-
dent Government at W&L. ,

First-years can vote on Sakai throughout the day Monday.

Strike out for strikes

Student Judicial Council moves away

By Kelly Mae Ross
s TA F F w R l T E R

The strike system is dead, but in name only.

The Student Judicial Council and Student
Affairs Committee decided last year to phase
out the term “strike” and instead adopt the term
“incident” when it comes to violations of uni-
versity policy that fall under the jurisdiction of
the administration and/or the SJC.

“The terminology changed. The system
hasn’t changed and the practice is still the
same,” said Brandon R. Dotson, associate dean
of students.

Dotson said that the term “strike” wasn’t
really appropriate for use in an incident-based
conduct system. Members of last year’s SJC
saw that and decided to do something about it.

“None of the rules have changed. None
of the consequences are different,” said Tim
McAleenan, last year’s junior justice on the
SJC. “The changing of the language was just
to make it easier for students to understand that
there was no automatic suspension or expul-
sion associated with having a third conduct
violation.”

McAleenan said that the SJC also hopes
that the “softer language” of the incident sys-
tem will help quench student fears that the SJC
is out to get them.

“We’ve changed the language to try to make .

it clear to the students that the rules are actually
in their interest,” he said.

For many students, their ﬁrst conduct viola-
tions that involve the use of alcohol or drugs
are dealt with administratively (by a dean), not
by the SJC.

While the old rules may not have changed
under the newly named incident system, a few

new rules have ofﬁcially been added into the
university’s written conduct policy.

This year there is a new provision included
in the university’s policy on DUI. If a student
under the age of2l is arrested for DUI, the rec-
ommended sanction is suspension, no matter
whether it is the student’s ﬁrst, second or third
incident (or even their fourth or ﬁfth).

There have been no underage DUI incidents
this academic year, said Dotson.

The new rules also make it clear that stu-
dents who are of legal drinking age and con-
victed ofa DUI with a blood alcohol concen-
tration of'.l5 or higher will be suspended from
the university, according to information from
the Division of Student Affairs.

SJC Chair Matt Simpson said the SJC wants
to make it clear that the student governing
body treats DUI as one of the most serious of
offenses.

“Very few things in our conduct system are
automatic,” he said. “The only thing that I can
think ofthat’s straight out the door is .15 DUI.”

A second change made to the university’s
policies on alcohol and drugs says that students
can be punished ifthey.are “deemed an ‘acces-
sory’ to violations,” according to information
from the university’s Division of Student Af-
fairs.

A student may be deemed an accessory if
he, for example, does nothing about the fact
that his roommate smokesjmarijuana in.their
shared dorm room.

Although the accessory provision wasn’t
officially written into the rules last year, Simp-
son says that the SJC had established a sort of

from strike system to incidents

precedent for accessory rulings.

The probationary process has also changed.
The university’s new, cumulative approach to
probation means that students will now serve a
full 52 weeks (one year) of probation for each
incident that they amass, which wasn’t the case
under the old strike system.

“So if you get in trouble week 48, they’re_

going to tack on 52 more weeks from there and
you’re going to keep rolling,” said Dotson.

On a scale of I to 10, Simpson said he
thought the changes made during the switch
from the strike to the incident system would
rank no higher than a two or a three in terms of
how big of a deal they are for students.

“Ultimately nothing that we do will sig-
niﬁcantly change that much,” Simpson said.
“We haven’t changed the way we think about
things, we just have kind of made our reason-
ing more public and  more accessible.”

 

nformation about the university's
policy on drug and alcohol use and
other conduct unbecoming to a W&L
student can be found in the 2011-
2012 Student Handbook, available
on the school’s website.

ByTommyKent
STAFF WRITER

“ Judging by their pale visages, it’s
unlikely that George Washington and
Robert E. Lee got much sun in their day.
But now Washington and Lee plans to
harness the sun’s power and bask in its
rays with clean energy beneﬁts of quiet
efficiency.

W&L signed a Power Purchase
Agreement on Aug. 5 with Secure Fu-
tures, a company that installs and oper-
ates solar energy projects. When com-
pleted, the school’s solar panel system
will be the largest in the state ofVirginia,
four times the size of the second largest
system located at the Eastern Mennonite

. University in Harrisonburg, Va.

The ﬁrst photovoltaic solar panel
array, located on the ramp to the upper
deck of the parking garage, will provide
120 kW ofenergy while the 330 kW sec-
ond array will be installed on the roof-
top of Lewis Hall. A university-owned
solar thermal array will be installed on
the Leybum library roof to provide hot
water for the heating needs of the build-
ing. The solar panels are scheduled to
be installed and operational by the end
of the year. I

‘ Q) “I really view the solar panel instal-

lations as a pilot program and a visual
demonstration of the University‘s com-
mitment to a sustainable effort,” said
Scott Beebe, director of Facilities Man-
agement.

According to the Climate Action
Plan drafted on January 15, 2010, the
ultimate goal for is to achieve carbon
neutrality by 2050.

Erik Curren, the director of mar-
keting and communication for Secure
Futures, said: “W&L has made a signiﬁ-
cant leap right now on the solar energy

_  capacity of Virginia. By investing in

clean renewable energy, [the University]
is setting an example for other colleges,
for the state, and beyond.” .

The solar panel system will provide

3 percent ofthe energy used on campus.
According to Beebe, the university will
also save money on the other 97 percent
due to the association of maximum ef-
ficiency of solar panels in the summer
to the cost of peak power times as deter-
mined by Dominion Power.

Curren, ‘87, said solar energy lines
up neatly with W&L’s motto.

“W&L has been around ‘for more
than 250 years because W&L‘ has always

been looking to the future,” Curren said. J

“Solar panels are the kind oflong-lived
infrastructure that will help Washington
and Lee continue to thrive.”

The installation of solar panels isjust
one facet of the entire sustainability ef-
fort on campus, which, according to the
plan, includes recycling, composting,

printing double-sided copies and grow-,

ing vegetables for the Campus Kitchen
Project.

Through its Climate Action Plan,
W&L hopes to reduce the utility opera-
tions budget by $1 million in two years,
reduce BTU’s (British Thermal Units)
per square foot on campus by 25 percent
by 2013, and to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions by 20 percent by 2020. The
President’s Climate Commitment Task
Force, the Energy Usage Task Force,
and the University Sustainability Com-
mittee are three major groups charged
with coordinating the carbon neutrality
effort.

“There are skeptics who say clean
energy is not practical but W&L is prov-
ing them wrong,” Curren said. “It is not
something that you have to wait for the
future to do. You can do it right now.”

In addition to the beneﬁts from pro-
ducing clean energy, solar panels may
serve W&L in several other ways.

“Young people are more interested in
sustainability than they have ever been
before and sustainability on campus is
now one of the factorson the lists for

colleges,” Curren said. “W&L is joining
an elite group that has clean energy in-
stalled and this should help with admis-
sions.”

Beebe also said the solar panels may
function as an educational tool and as a
way to get students more interested in
sustainability.

Said Beebe: “I hope that the visibil-
ity of the panels will stimulate interest
in the students, faculty, and community.
One of the goals that I have, through
the solar installations and sub-metering
project, is that the solar panels will open
up the opportunity for class and indi-
vidual research. Why would it not be a
good idea for a student in the business
school to research the Power Purchased
Agreement? Why would it not be a good
idea for a student in the science depart-
ment to research the photovoltaic pro-
cess?”

The sub-metering project refers to an
effort that allows a diagnostic check of
each building. The information collect-
ed from the sub-meters will be compiled
into alsoon-to-be announced Energy In-
telligence System that will be open to all
students on the school website.

For now, the solar panels are still un-
der construction. Construction has be-
gun on the upper parking deck and panel
installation will begin on the law school
in a few weeks.

“The people at W&L will easily see
the solar panels at work,” Curren said.
“They will be a concrete symbol of the
University’s commitment to clean en-
ergy and a sustainable future.”

  

Construction begins on the solar panel system above the parking

Solar panels arrive at W&L

A deal with Secure Features brings Virginia ’s largest solar panel system to Washington and Lee

GABRIELLE ESPY/ staff photographer

M deck. When completed, W&L’s sytem will be the largest in Virginia.

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE uu
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

SEP272m.

Opi

Fl

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011

A behind the scenes view of the restaurant industry

Columnist Ali Greenberg ‘explains the ins and outs of working in a restaurant and describes proper demeanor for diners

It is my ﬁrm
belief that ev-
eryone should,
at one point or
I another, work
in a restaurant.
. I refer to res-
taurants specif-
ically, not only
I to learn the
value of a dol-
lar and develop
a work ethic
because any
job can teach
you that. Work-
ing in a restaurant can also offer the op-
portunity for important life lessons that
would beneﬁt us all.

There is no place better to learn hu-
mility, something a great portion of
W&L students have never had to ex-

§‘ . 1,,
By AliGreenberg
COLUMNIST

 

‘perience. Waiting tables teaches time

management while emphasizing com-
munication skills and strengthening
memory. Serving requires a positive
attitude regardless of a customer’s bad
one, a backed up kitchen or breaking
two glasses of Ruby port.
You cannot get ﬂustered, you cannot
break down, and you cannot talk back.
. My ﬁrst restaurant job was during my

junior year in high school at an Italian
place that was delicious. Unfortunately,
the owner was as insane as his food was
good. One night a young couple came
in. Everything was ﬁne until the chicken
parmgan.

They didn’t like it, didn’t eat it and
didn’t want to pay for it. This didn’t fly
with Nino, who pulled the entrée out of
the trash, brought it to their table and
proceeded to cut the chicken in order to
prove it was cooked correctly and that it
would be included on the bill. I am not
kidding. I quit that night.

The restaurant world is a volatile
one, explaining why management can
be high-strung at times. It is a fast-paced
and high-risk business endeavor that can
reap large rewards or cause major loss-
es. A server has to be a problem solver,
able to handle sticky situations on her
own, and know when to ask questions or
let a higher-up step in.

Things can get stressful, but the ex-
perience will toughen you up. As the
saying goes, “if you can’t take the heat,
get out of the kitchen.”

A good restaurant, sensibly, is the
best place to learn about good food and
wine. (Sorry Cracker Barrel). And if you
are lucky enough that the chef allows
you near his mise en place, you will

learn more about produce and glazes
than you could have ever imagined.

Every W&L student should graduate
knowing the difference between truffles
from the ground and trufﬂes of choco-
late, basic wine pairings for reds and
whites, how to mix a real cocktail, and
when heirloom tomatoes are in season.
A true appreciation for food is nurtured
in the kitchen.

And you don’t need to know how to
cook to hold that appreciation. I can’t
make anything but a ﬁre in the kitchen,
but I can make a reservation at a great
place.

Dining out is an experience, and
waiters are there to facilitate that experi-
ence. Just because it is someone’s job to
serve you does not mean that you can be
rude or disrespectful. This brings me to
my rules and advice.

Do not come in 15 minutes before
closing time without a reservation.
While some nights this may not be a big
deal (lots of tables still there), on a slow
night this is a real pain in the ass for
those who have to wait around as you
take your time through three courses.
We don’t want to rush you out but time
is money, so ifyou insist on coming late
please buy a few bottles of wine.

Do not order seafood on Monday or

ever eat discounted Sushi. I worked at
a Japanese restaurant that offered Mon-
day night $l sushi, which was a great
deal. But that ﬁsh was fresh on Thurs-
day night, so while it is still technically
safe to eat, it is discounted because they
cannot use it the next day. Also, only or-
der scallops from a restaurant you trust.
They are too easily over or undercooked.

A 20% tip is the norm. Tip less for
bad service, tip more for excellent ser-
vice. Too often people assume that 15%
is acceptable for “good service,” but this
is not true. Many servers make their liv-
ing on tips and although you may think
our $2.50 hourly wage is enough, we
may disagree.’

I was told a long time ago that the
best judge of character is how an indi-
vidual treats a waiter and whether or
not they tip 20%. This isn’t a matter of
money either. If you make the conscious
decision to go out for a nice meal, you
should budget in an adequate tip and
order accordingly. Not tipping 20% for
good service is more bullshit than the
Ortiz knockout. I

If a restaurant offers a tasting menu,
order that. It will not disappoint and the
chef put a lot of work into it. Prix ﬁxe
menus are also a great way to get a deal
at a fancier restaurant.

We are happy to accommodate food
allergies, but make sure you differenti-
ate between “I don’t like that” and “I
can’t eat that,” or else you may have the
chef’s going through a lot _of extra trou-
ble to ensure an allergy-free meal. Also,
chefs hate vegans, just for the record.

Do not overcomplicate your order.
Waiting is not necessarily difﬁcult in
theory, but when you have three tables
and the 4-top wants four separate mixed
drinks, substitutions for their sides, de-
caf and regular coffee and extra bread,
it adds up. We are there to make your
experience great, don’t make it difficult
for us.

Try to make reservations. You will
be guaranteed a table, often a better one,
and will likely receive better service
since the wait staff and kitchen will be
expecting you.

For those dining out, my main point
is to treat the servers with respect, al-.
though I hope you already do. As those
who have worked in the restaurant in-
dustry can attest, while you serve others
all night, sometimes the only thing you
get to eat is humble pie.

Understanding the US government's ”get out ofjail free”Card

Right—wing columnist Brandyn Churchill describes “American Exceptionalism ” and all of its implications

   

Con-

fession: I
hate talking
politics at
W&L. To
those who
know me,
or at least
have me
added on

Facebook,
this may
By Brandyn Churchill come. as a

COLuMNIsT Surpnse‘

More of-

ten than not, my proﬁle contains more
information on Ron Paul than his cam-
paign website. Actually, I am the perfect
example of why I dread talking politics
at W&L— everybody has an opinion. It

isn’t that I am afraid of confrontation. A
decent amount of people would prob-
ably claim that I thrive on it. I just hate
wasting my time; I’ve found people are
so set in their opinions that debating can
only serve to do just that.

That being said, I am going to totally
contradict myself and write on politics.
After watching the Republican debates,
I could not help but feel a little uneasy
about a term being thrown around the
stage. What has me so worried that I
am putting off my Health Econ. to write
about it? “American Exceptionalism.”
Let the charges that I am “un-American”
begin. I hope they don’t, because I am
not sure how to obtain a copy of my
long-form birth certiﬁcate. .. .

Anyway,‘ this cute little sound bite is
political gold.‘Candidates use it to an-

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR‘
ARTS&LlFE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
COPY EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

HEAD DESIGN EDITOR
DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is th

hold leaders accountable. Th

undergraduate school year.

mediaboard@wlu.edu, but is ot

to edit submissions for conten

UNIVERSITY COMMO

SUBSCRIPTION

ileimrm Ammummn

THE RING-TUM PHI.

\\

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
JAYNA JOHNS '\‘\_

swer everything and anything.

It can be used as an attack; one candi-
date has claimed President Obama does
not believe in “American Exceptional-
ism,” because the president (realistical-
ly) stated that other countries probably
believe they are exceptionaltoo.

It can be used to answer nearly any’

question. Example:

Moderator: “Candidate X, many have
criticized your plan to reduce the deﬁcit,
saying that the numbers are a stretch at
best and are outright lies at worst. What
do you have to say to these critics?”

Candidate X: “Listen Moderator,
unlike my critics, I am a ﬁrm believer
in American Exceptionalism. When
the American people set their minds to
something, they can accomplish any-
thing. I think it is time that my critics
and the Washington establishment rec-
ognize this.”

Cue tons of applause.

Have to watch‘ the debate for a
politics class? Play the GOP Drinking

Game: anytime the phrase “American
Exceptionalism” is said, drink. Anytime
Ron Paul mentions the Federal Reserve,
drink. Or anytime Rick Santorum looks
disgusted, drink. It may make the de-
bate, at least, bearable.

The problem with “American Excep-
tionalism” is that it is not a real answer.
Sure it sounds nice, but consider about
what it is implying. If you hold to this
belief, you are giving the US Govem-
ment an indeﬁnite “get-out-of-jail- free”
card. It throws off the shackles of “real-
ity” and “responsibility” and holds that
no matter what America does, America
is right.

At the last GOP debate, Senator Rick
Santorum attacked Congressman Paul’s
view of 9/ I l . Santorum stated, “We were
not attacked, because of our actions....
they want to kill us, because of who we
are and what we stand for. And we stand
for ‘American Exceptionalism.’” Paul
went on to explain the need to under-
stand the terrorist’s motivation for the

JAMES BIEMILLER
CHAuNCEY BAKER
NEIL HAGGERTY
DANIELLE HURLEY
CASSIE MCGl_NTY
JOHN PAUL BEALL
sTOCI<ToN BULLITT
BRANDYN CHURCHILL
KELSEY COTTER
ALIGREENBERG
RYAN JOHNSON
TOMMY KENT
CYNTHIA LAM
ALEXANDER MARAGOS
STEPHEN PECK
SALLY PLATT
BRIDGET ROONEY
KELLY MAE ROSS
ANDREA SISO
PATRICK SMITH
SCOTT SUGDEN
GABRIELLE TREMO
ANGELA WILLIAMS
BELLA ZUROSKI
JULIANNA SATTERLY
EMILY LEVENTHAL
GABRIELLE ESPY
COY FERRELL

MATT GOSSETT
DAVE WILSON
DILLON MYERS
KANE THOMAs

BRIAN SIMPSON
e mission of THE RING-

TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully. and thoroughly report
news affecting the Washington and Lee community
for students, faculty, parents and alumni. Our goal

is to look deeper into news affecting campus life and

rough our reporting, we

aspire to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.
THE RING~TUM PHI is published Mondays during the

THE RING-TUM PHI is a

member of The Media Board, which can be reached at

herwise independent.THE

RING-TUM PHI welcomes all letters. We reserve the right

t and length. Letters and

advertising do not necessarily reflect the opinion of THE
RING~TUM PHI staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.
THE RING-TUM PHI

NS ROOM. 3'41

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060

FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU

RATE $45

There are only
a handful ofmov-
ies that achieve
above a 90% ap-
proval rating on
Rotten Tomatoes.
I know what you
are all think-
ing: Shaquille
O.’Neal’s “Ka-
zaam” certainly
must have re-
ceived this honor.
One could not be
further from the
truth.

“Kazaam” actually got a 4% fresh rat-
ing. Word on the street is that Shaq threat-
ened to sit on one of the critics, so he got a
sympathy thumbs-up.

What I am really trying to say here is
that Rotten Tomatoes’ critics are fairly
picky and over 90% fresh for any movie
is an accomplishment, let alone a sports
movie.

Spoiler Alert: I’m about to ruin a mov-
ie that is in theaters right now and a book
that’s been out for over eight years. I am
also about to talk about baseball. If you do
not care about baseball, I no longer care
about you. Deal with it.

Let’s step into the mind of a B

  
     

 
By Patrick Smith
CoLuMNIsT

   

‘K.-

What kind of products do you use?
Herbal Essences, Hello Hydration 2-in-l
How much time do you spend prepping
your ﬂow every day?
Not much surprisingly,just 10 minutes to
dry and the rest is natural
At what age did you begin to realize
your ﬂow’s potential?
Freshman year of high school, when the
90% Flow movement took off
What’s the best complement someone’s

 
   
   
  
 

givi ,..

Beane. You are sitting behind your ad-
equately sized oak desk (deﬁnitely not ma-
hogany, mahogany is for rich people), you
most likely have smokeless tobacco tucked
under your lip, and you’re losing Giambi,
Damon and lsringhausen to free agency.

Kiss the baby, right? Wrong.

Only the strong persevere in times of ad-
versity. What does Billy Beane do with his
measly 40 million dollar payroll‘? He uses
his ﬁrst chunk of it to steal a 25-year-old
Yale graduate with a degree in Economics
from the Cleveland Indians.

This kid has developed a system to rank
professional baseball players on what ac-
tually matters. As a hitter, there are two I
things that it boils down to: getting on base
and scoring runs. As a pitcher, one thing
matters: opponent batting average.

You see, baseball scouts are senile old
farts. They barely use any statistics when
scouting players. Often times these scouts
will say things like, “this kid’s got a good
butt,” or, “he’s got an ugly girlfriend; no
one can hit with an ugly girlfriend.”

Child, please.

Billy Beane was the ﬁrst general man-
ager to adopt a new philosophy of running
a baseball organization. He was going to
play the guys who saw pitches, got walks,

ﬁgdegcored runs. He was also going to pay

e  league minimum salary.

‘u on your ﬂow? ‘
I  Melrose would be jealous”
What’s your ideal time span between
ﬂow cuts?
I usually get 4 cuts a year, allowing my
ﬁow adequate time to grow
If your ﬂow had to describe itself in one
word...
Classy
What’s your ﬂow’s greatest inspiration?
I owe a lot of credit to the lacrosse com

attacks, starting with America’s milita-
rism. He said a few other things, but you
can hardly hear them over the crowds
booing. This came as a shock to me.
GOP debate attendees are normally such
reasonable people. Earlier that night,
when asked if an uninsured individual
who gets in a serious accident should
be let die, some members of the crowd
cheered out “Yeah!” At a previous de-
bate, the mere mention of the number of
people executed under Governor Perry
sent them into an excited tizzy.

I do love the country I live in. I feel it
gives me the most freedom of anywhere
else in the world would (very relative
statement). I just feel that it is not in the
“spirit” of America to assume that the
govemment does no wrong. The fact
of the matter is that America is run by
individuals and individuals are ﬂawed.
Ergo, America is flawed. I think that a
key step for America, moving forward
into this decade, is to learn Rule 51 from
NCIS: “Sometimes, you’re wrong.”

A homerun for the movie theaters

Columnist Patrick Smith encourages students to check out “Moneyball ”

Beane ran a slightly authoritarian style
of managing his program (shout out PE-
301. I see you workin’). The best part was
that he did not give a damn what anyone
thought about his process. He received
scrutiny for his methods, but it was based
on logic, so he did not care.

The bottom line to all of this is that you
should just see “Moneyball” when it comes
to the Lexington theater (if you can call that
a theater). I saw it opening night in Roa-
noke and the place was packed mostly by
non-baseball fans, which was the best part.

I will never forgive Barry Bonds for be-
ing such a horrible individual. He illumi-
nated a small part of the game and it over-
shadowed all of the remarkable things that
were happening. That is what “Moneyball”
is all about.

While Barry Bonds was busy inject-
ing himself with steroids and shrinking his
man parts, the Oakland A’s were defying a
flawed system and sticking it to the man.
Underdog stories are the best, and “Money-
ball” is no different. See the movie. It will
be worth the arm and leg you have to pay.
for the ticket. _

Confucius says: “Baseball wrong. Man
with four balls can not walk.”

Eiﬂéw @ $716 Wée&:MAnHEweossEn/business manager
  <$l‘uarl.Zo@tz ‘PLZII

munity, but Bubba Watson and Jaromir
Jagr are deﬁnitely my ﬁow‘s biggest inspirations
Ifa movie was made centered on your
ﬂow, what would it be called?
Mullet Man Prophecies
What’s your ﬂow’s theme song?
“Willie Dynamite” by Mac Miller
How much money would it take to
lose your ﬂow for good?
You can’t put a price on ﬂow. That
being said, probably a million dollars.

 

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

pinions

 

So long,
statesmanship

When congress members
refuse to Compromise, we all

suﬂer the consequences

About this time last year,
I wrote an article describing
the various theatrics resound-
ing throughout the country
during the midterm congres-
sional elections, and I am
disappointed that I am retum-
ing to this topic so soon after
what some called a restora-
tion of order to the House of

 ‘ Representatives. In light of

/"'3 the recent failure to pass a

:2’ short-term spending bill last

By john pauj Bea“ Wednesday, defeated by both

C 0 L U M N . 5 T Democrats and Republicans,

House leadership needs to

re-examine their role in this country’s government,

which is ailing economically while petty battles are
performed on the national political stage.

While it is heartening that a coalition of 230 Dem-
ocrats and Republicans combined actually formed the
ﬁrst vestige of “bipartisan” activity the government
has seen in a little while, the bipartisanship is not ac-,
complishing anything. The bloc of Democrats com-
plained that the bill contained too many harsh cuts,
and the 48 Republicans who peeled away from major-
ity rank and ﬁle unexpectedly complained that the bill
did not make enough cuts. Well at least they managed
to agree on how to vote.

The reason the pendulum swung back to Repub-
licans in the House last year was that America dis-
liked the way the House was being run under an over-
whelming majority of Democrats, and that regardless
of party, the real majority in the House was ﬁrmly in
the hands of ideological zealots either unwilling or
unable to compromise on an agenda. The fact that this
bill, relatively minor housekeeping, ran into a wall is
an embarrassment on several levels.

  

First, it reveals that the fundamental problem with -

the institution still remains under the surface. Con-
gress has forgotten how to compromise in the midst
of political warfare, leaving the basic function of the
American government an unmanned helm. The defeat
of this bill demonstrates that a consensus has not been
solidly fonned. If such is the case, then the bill ought
not to have been put to a vote. Speaker Boehner is un-
fortunately placed in a position where he must move
Congress forward, but in order to do that he must also
become a facilitator of compromise. The 48 naysayers
disrupted Republican cohesion at the last moment. If
they were interested in compromise, they would have
brought up their reservations about the bill earlier and
tried to work to ﬁnd common ground for passage.
Such an action could have no other beneﬁt but for the-
atrics and to embarrass party leadership.

Even if one does not have a taste for the amount of
cuts being made, the problem with these ideologues is
in the childish “all or nothing” mentality. A problem-
solver and _a statesman would recognize that some-
thing is better than nothing, as long as the group is
moving in a general direction.

There is apprehension about the size of the debt,
which the Congresses of the last decades up to the
present are responsible. With a debt so large, improve-
ments are not going to happen overnight, but big races
begin with small footsteps. Turning around the largest
out-of-control budget is more like turning a battleship,
and less like ﬂipping a light-switch, so gradualism is
the only answer. ,

The mandate rests with the Republican majority
of 2010 to do what the Democratic majority of 2008
would not do to them-— treat the minority with some
respect and establish dialogue across the aisle. If the
Republicans fail in doing this sufficiently, then their
platform will be an uphill battle the entire way to the
polls, and their majority may be weakened or lost.
Furthermore, as one of the most visual representations
of the party-out-of-power, the mandate is on them
to behave with honor, because their conduct will af-
fect the public opinion of the Republican Presidential
nominees, and eventually the Presidential candidate.

If Congress is unable to do what it should, the
GOP nominees need to start speaking up and bring-
ing leadership to the table. As Republican leaders of
at least some respectable position, they can comment
on the political affairs of the country. They are more
entitled to do so than members of the pop culture are-
na. If Canadian citizen Justin Bieber can make a com-
ment about Congress and American politics (granted
a snide one), and our nominees cannot, then there is
a problem. This country is suffering from several ail-
ments, but the biggest one of all is the lack of states-
men and leadership.

When you begin to consider who to vote for in the
upcoming elections, put some thought into it. Truly
think about the candidates and their platforms, but
also consider their unifying capabilities and their abil-
ity to lead. It is time for us as voters to consider what
we can do for this country.

Fake it ‘til ou make it

Rooney is gui e to recovering from unexpected dance ﬂoor spills

Ms. Zuroski and Ms.
, So

you’re hav-
ing a typi-
cal night
out with
your bes-
ties at, say,
this week-
end’s infa-
mous MTV
Grind.
You’re
totally
rocking
that neon
leotard

and biker
spandex while grinding to Sir Mix-
A-Lot’s ﬁnest nineties beats and you
feel as though you are invincible. At
the moment when you feel like you
couldn’t possibly look any hotter un-
less you were Beyoncé starring in her
video for “Bootylicious,” things take
a turn for the worse. Suddenly, your
cup is out of your hand and yourfeet
are no longer stuck in the frat sludge
— instead, the backside of your leo-
tard is. At this point, you have taken
the downward spiral from Beyoncé

  
   

By Bella Zuroski and
Bridget Rooney
COLUMNISTS

in all her glory to the star of this
week’s video, “Beyoncé Clown.”

YouTube’s “Beyoncé Clo.Wn”
video is the perfect example of what
can happen when one gets a little too
ambitious on the dance ﬂoor. While
the star of this video is lucky enough
to be in the privacy of her own home
wearing an identity-concealing
clown mask when she makes a danc-
ing faux-pas, you are in the middle
of a dance floor surrounded by your
classmates. In this situation, you
have a few options to try to regain
your composure:

l. Deny ‘til you die. Obviously,
your best friends (no matter how
embarrassing you look) are going to
help you out by picking you up be-
fore you get trampled by the aggres-
sive DFMers surrounding you on
all sides. If this is the case and the
crowd is so engrossed in their own
dance ﬂoor romances that they didn’t
even notice, this is the perfect time
to pretend like it never happened and
pull the classic deny ‘til you die. So
just stand up, brush off your leotard,
and resume grinding like it’s 1999.

2. Blatant acknowledgement.

In this scenario, your approach is
to be bigger than the situation and
completely accept the fact that you
have just made a fool of yourself.
This takes a very conﬁdent person
or someone who has had a few re-
freshments served from a‘ trashcan
or turkey baster. As you stand up
from your fall that resembles that of
another YouTube sensation (“Scar-
let Takes a Tumble” — check it out
people), you simply yell out what an
“AWESOME TIME YOU’RE HAV-
ING” and how you “DON’T EVEN
FEELATHING, BRAH!”

3. Run away dramatically. If you
lack this kind of conﬁdence or prox-
imity to the keg, or the fall was sim-
ply too much to recover from on the
spot, this is your game plan. Grab
the hand of your closest dance part-
ner and run to the nearest bathroom.
After knocking obnoxiously and
yelling that “THIS IS AN EMER-
GENCY, PEOPLE,” get in there
and collect yourself (make sure it’s
locked or your friend is leaning her
leotard-clad self against the door
that’s probably missing a doorknob).
Spend a few minutes in there ﬁxing

your hair and wiping off your span-
dex, but remember — don’t waste too
much time missing out on Run DMC
and being concerned about how you
look because every single person out
there looks like a train wreck anyway
and probably doesn’t remember your
fall anymore.

4. Dance on the ground. This
tactic is one of our favorites. Sim-
ply pretend that you totally planned
this ~ it’s your signature dance move,
people. You obviously, meant to drop
straight to the ground and booty-pop
right back up. Everyone’s going to
love it. Trust us. If you can pull it
off, you will become the life of the
party.

So the next time you approach a
dance ﬂoor, don’t be afraid to shake
what you got/drop it low/dougie/pop
lock and drop it/cat daddy etc. You
now know a few_simple yet effective
techniques for overcoming an un-
fortunate situation. Trust us, we’ve
used them, and they work. You just
have to fake it ‘til you make it.

A casefor collecting art

F irst-year Ryan Johnson describes a favorite hobby he believes every student should try

Remem-
ber, for one
second, the
last song or
music album
you bought.
If it was
- Bon Iver’s
' self-titled
album, then
you made a
great choice
and I would
love to get in
touch with
you. Friend
me on Facebook and we can go from
there.

If not - say you were complet-
ing your Ke$ha collection with Ben
Folds’ cover of “Sleazy” - then you
have room to improve, but I respect
that too. The point is you added to a
personal music library that you have
probably been building since middle
school.

The application “Tidy Songs,”
which organizes users’ electronic
music libraries, would probably
agree with me that our music collec-
tions are more well-cared for than
a ferocious cow lick on a ﬁrst date.
Tidy Songs reported in a recent study
that the average customer’s iTunes
library contains 7,160 songs. That’s
more than seven straight days of mu-
sic listening if each song is three and
a half minutes long. And these are
songs you have not only gone out
of your way to listen to, but also to
download.

Also consider your movie collec-
tion. Right now, you probably have a
weeks’ worth of television shows and
movies stashed away (electronic or
otherwise): entertainment to which
you’ve dedicated many a night.
Movies are different than songs in

Comin

Columnist Sally Platt

OK guys,
I’m ﬁnally
coming
out of the
closet. Or, I
should say,
my closet is
coming out
 to you. I am
A admitting
my love of
thrift stores.

   

By Ryanlohnson
COLUMNIST

     

» ,- ‘  What, those
' i laces?!
B Sall Platt P
C)(;LUMyNlST ‘Those nasty
dark ware-

houses full of old moldy clothes? I
mean, you have no idea who wore
that stuff, where it came from, or
what they, what they... did in it. And
you shop there? I think I am going to
stop reading right here.

But wait --- don’t! Let me clarify
a few things. First of all, thrift stores
are not always dank and nasty. They
don’t always smell of mothballs.
And they deﬁnitely don’t always

5,

that we only own a small percentage
of the ﬁlms we’ve -seen. Regardless,
we feel a societal pressure to keep up
with the latest movie releases. Some
of us are even so concerned with
having our personal stash of music

and movies that we will go to legally -

questionable lengths to accomplish
this. That, however, is a matter for
another article.

So people have obscene amounts
of music, which caters to the ears.
And we have our favorite ﬁlms,
which gratify the ears and eyes. What
about just the eyes? Where are our
art collections? Most of us don’t pay
nearly enough attention to the visual
art world, as compared to the music
or ﬁlm worlds. We don’t collect or
appreciate art like we would music
and movies. This, I say, is a ﬂaw that
can be easily remedied.

Let me ﬁrst describe what I mean
by an “art collection.” I use the
phrase loosely because a lot ofwhat
we collect could be very infonnal,
rather than “ﬁne” art. We may simply
“collect” art for ourselves by buy-
ing a catalog of Mark Rothko’s color
ﬁeld paintings. Plastering our walls
with movie posters is, I admit, also
the beginnings of an art collection.
It is an effort to dress up what little
wall space we have, to uphold an
aesthetic sensibility. Posters, prints,
sculptures, original drawings, paint-
ings, and even digital images are all
items that one might collect.

Don’t think that collecting art is
beyond or below you. Non-artists
(for lack of a better term) have as
much of a role in the art world as
the actual artists. The most cursory
glance at art history will reveal this
much; some of our greatest art was
commissioned. A patron wanted a
portrait done or a church wall to be
decorated, and our museums are still

have really sketchy people in them.
(Wait, they do, but that is half of
the fun). I remember the incident
of the “Boxer Lady.” My little sis-
ter and I were whiling away a lazy
Saturday at our local Goodwill (San
Antonio, incidentally, has the best
thrift stores in the nation) when we
saw this oddly—dressed lady. She had
on a huge, bright yellow, tenycloth

“dress” that reached down to her feet V

and large snow—boots. We were in-
stantly curious. As we furtively fol-
lowed her around the store, we saw
her make a bee-line for one thing: the
men’s boxer section. Now, who buys
used-underwear? I do not know, but
someone must because they still sell
it. “Boxer-Lady” bought every pair
they had — from little boy to adult.
She even bought the Whitey Tighties
(gasp). We were intrigued. She has
lived in our memory ever since.
Then there is the treasure hunt.
T hriﬂ stores are a treasure hunt.
You know that there’s a vintage
Prada little-black-dress hiding there

thanking them. Now, our galleries do
much of the commissioning, but the
work gets done still the same. There
are plenty of avenues for owning art.

It may be odd to think about col-
lecting art now, but picture yourself
as an adult. Now realize that you are
an adult. The time is now. Make no
mistake; an art collection is classy.
In the near future, it will give a soul
to your home and a conversation
topic to your guests. It may become
a lifelong hobby of yours to invest in
art, especially if you are a business
major. But there is more to owning
art than practical matters. Having a
reﬁned artistic taste is the mark of
a gentleman or gentlewoman. Art
brings aesthetic pleasure, much like
music or movies. In fact, viewing
art helps one better appreciate music
and movies in the aesthetic dimen-
sion. Art moves the viewer to reﬂect.
One’s artistic sensibility affects how
one views the world and vice versa.

You don’t have to buy art this
week or even this month. Start in a
simple way by looking for art that
you like. Grow a garden of digital art
that you enjoy looking at. Though art
on a computer screen doesn’t com-
pare to the real piece, it can be relax-
ing and educating to simply scroll
through artists’ websites and contem-
plate art.

Maybe the only museum trips
you enjoyed as a wee one were to
exhibits of Andy Warhol. If so, re-
search the street artist Banksy. Keep
an eye out for new art to ﬁnd styles
that you like. Visit the galleries on
campus and around Lexington. This
may sound silly, but if you really en-
joy a work by a fellow W&L student,
ask for its price. Chances are they
will be more than willing to get their
art out into the world. Browse art
magazines and websites and Google

somewhere. You just have to search
through an entire rack of discarded
school jerseys and 80’s workout suits
to ﬁnd it. My favorite pieces that I
have found are: a Gucci change

‘ purse, a Burberry raincoat, and this

adorable little pair of unlabeled black
heels— of course I pretend they are
Manolo Blahnik. These are all the
perfect accessories for my wardrobe
of preppy, casual, classic clothing.
It’s the details that matter, right? It’s
also the advertising. For those of you
who share my love of thrift stores
you will already be very familiar
with the word “vintage.”

“Oh, so Sally, where did you get
that really cute little vest?”

“Oh, that? It’s vintage.”

Sometimes it’s too much trouble
to explain to the unbelievers where
you got that item of clothing. It’s
enough that they like it.

For those of you who just got to
Lex, you will also soon learn the
usefulness of our little Goodwill.
Pathetic as it is when compared to

the artists whose work you enjoy.
Don’t be turned off if you feel the
art around you is kitschy or boring;
I can personally guarantee that there
is enough art out in the world to suit
all of our tastes. As a personal aside, I
have recently enjoyed viewing work
online by Andy Goldsworthy, Adrian
Villar Rojas, and Dan Tague. Take
that as you will.

If price is an object, prints of art-
work - the kinds of prints you would
buy at a museum gift shop, say - are
a good way to start small. Prints are
certainly a cheap alternative to tak-
ing out a monstrous loan for an old
masterpiece. Frame the prints for the
instant feeling of legitimacy. But in
reality, current art is really not that
expensive. You can buy an original
drawing from a gallery for less than
the price of a single console game,
though prices will vary widely. Ac-
quiring just a few pieces of art that
you really enjoy will demonstrate the
addicting pleasure of ownership.

Lastly, don’t feel that you are to
blame for having little or no cur-
rent interest in collecting art. The
art world itself is probably at fault
here, as our current artists thrive on
the conceptual approach to fine art.
In true hipster fashion, many artists
purposefully remove themselves
from mainstream culture by creat-
ing intellectually focused art. Part of
the joy of collecting art, however, is
deciphering and enjoying the visual
subtleties within your collection. For
the love of all that is tasteful, de-
velop your artistic collection while
you have the time and energy. Make
it your new [school] year’s resolu-
tion to explore a side of culture that
should have been familiar territory
by now.

out of the closet

ls thrift store shopping a fashionista is treasure hunt

big-city stores, yet it can yield sur-
prising little nuggets of usefulness
when, for example, Halloween or
Christmas Weekend roll around.
Wonder where I got my bright green
Christmas sweatshirt with the jingle-
bells and light up Rudolf nose? You
bet. ’

So don’t be hating. Thrift stores
can be fun --- sketchy fun, it’s true,
but then isn’t sketchy fun always the
best? Plus, I’m not alone. This past
week, a certain male from a certain
fratemity who is known for dressing
well, volunteered that he had got-
ten his tie at a thrift-store. Wonders
never cease. So if you’re bored one
day over Thanksgiving break, con-
sider taking a little trip to your local
treasure chest. There is most certain-
ly something waiting there for you.
And for those of you who already
share my love of these places, it’s
time to come out of the closet. No
more “vintage.” Let’s wear it loud
and proud. Isn’t that what fashion is
all about?

 

  

 

  

4 .

 

THE RING-TUM PHI -

MON DAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011

opinions

 

    

Fighting sexual harrassment in the ﬁrst-year dorms

F irst-year Andrea Siso describes how a fun visit to a friend is dorm room turned into a humiliating nightmare

My friend

4 Sarah and I
I A . always visit
the dorm room

of our other
friend, Mark.
Besides con-
taining the
greatest snack
stash known

to man, Mark’s
room is bigger
than a janitor’s
closet and has
two windows.
This guy’s liv-
ing the life.

The only problem with Mark’s room
is its location.

It sits at the end of a very long boys’
hall. And let’sjust say if curious glances
could burn you, I’d probably burst into
ﬂames every time I visited him.

   

By Andrea Siso
COLUMNIST

My apprehensions were blatantly vo-
calized last Thursday evening. We were
all watching a bout of YouTube videos
when Sarah wanted to use the restroom.
“Come with me,” she said, “I’m scared
of being stolen!” We all laughed, but
maybeshe jinxed us because her fear
soon became pretty warranted.

It started with Mark’s neighbors.
Faceless voices would leer, “How you
doing?” amongst background choruses
yodeling, “Woooo! WOOOOO!”

Then we walked down the hall.

The desperate cry of “Girls? Girls?
GIRRRRRRLS!” was ﬂung from an
open doorway to our right. Oh, and, I am
not kidding you, one guy even shouted,
“Do you come here often?”

Even though Sarah and I practically
ran, the trip to the stairwell seemed to
last ages. I can remember my face bum-
ing and a physical inability to take my
eyes off the beige linoleum tiles in front

of me. And when we ﬁnally reached the
staircase, I looked at Sarah and an in-
credulous guffaw was ripped from my
mouth. Did that seriously just happen?

I know that they probably didn’t
mean anything by it, but I felt really, re-
ally uncomfortable. It reminded me of
a moment on a family vacation to Can-
cun four summers ago. I was walking
down the poolside deck to meet with my
parents, when old lecherous men kept
ogling me and shouting things like, “Ay
mamasita!” Um, no. Sorry Mr. Rogers,
I am not your “mamasita.” I was four-
teen. Fourteen.

I thought that at least W&L guys
would be more conscious of chivalry
and honor, but I realized that maybe I
made too generous and too hasty of a
generalization. Only those driven by
basal instincts would ever holler sug-
gestive pick-up lines to two girls in-
nocuously decked out in sweatpants and

baggy tees, walking down a hallway.

But, no, the story does not end there.
Sarah and I grudgingly made the trip
back to Mark’s room, this time full-on
running to avoid any sort of external
contact. When we had to pause to turn
his doorknob, we heard a group of voic-
es shouting “OOOHHHHHH!” from the
room next door.

We told Mark what had happened.
He walked into his neighbor’s room.

“What’s up?”

“I see you’re doing some work on
two bitches, man!” slimed the leader of
the pack. His cronies grunted in support.

I’m not really sure what else was
said. Shock deafened me.

“Did they really just call us bitches?”
I asked Sarah.

“I hate being called that,” she softly
replied. I agreed.

And that was overlooking the whole
“doing some work” bit. But I think we’d

already been through enough that night.

I believe that as a person, I deserve
the right to be able to walk without fear
or humiliation to visit with my two best
friends. I believe that as a female stu-
dent, I shouldn’t feel hindered at all by
my gender; I shouldn’t feel demeaned,
and I shouldn’t feel objectiﬁed in my
own college dorm building. I also have
faith that these guys are better than this.
I’m not sure what they thought they’d
gain from acting that way; you could’ve
swom they’d never seen a girl before.
But, really, the way to gain a girl’s at-
tention is not by degrading her, it’s by
respecting her.

And anyway, if the option ever arose,
I personally would want to date a guy
more advanced on the evolutionary lad-
der.

How to feel easy like a Sunday morning all day long

You wake
up, relieved
to learn that
the giant
grain bucket
chasing you
down Lee
Highway was
only part of
a nightmare.
Your throat
is so dry it’s
burning. Your
hair smells
like smoke
and beer._
Your body is so sore you wonder if you
fought in a mixed martial arts competi-
tion last night. Half of you wants to stay
in bed and the other half wants to get up
and try to make yourself feel better.

And just when you are starting to
nod off again, you remember—oh, no.
Sunday morning. I have three essays
to write, a test worth 30 percent of my
grade tomorrow, math problems that will
be checked at the beginning ofclass, and
200 pages of reading. You pinch your-
self and hope that these thoughts are
also parts ofa nightmare. But, they are
all real.

This is a moment that most every
W&L student knows. From the halls of
Graham-Lees to the shores of the Maury
River can be found Sunday-syndrome-
victims. Next weekend, follow this

 

By Campbell Burr
OPINIONS EDITOR

Symptoms of the Investment Banker Phase

guide so that you can feel fresh, accom-
plished and relaxed. Before you know it,
Sunday will totally be the new Friday.

I. Set an alarm: A key to being pro-
ductive is forcing yourself to wake up
with a little bit of urgency. Lingering in
bed and half-sleeping until 1 p.m. is a
waste of time. Set your alarm for a time
when you can realistically wake up and
have enough sleep to feel rested. I usu-
ally set the alarm for 9:30 a.m. and press
snooze until 10 a.m. I suggest setting
said alarm before you go out on Sat-
urday night. With the way things have
been going recently, you may want to
set your alarm on the earlier side so that
if you have an unexpected run-in with
the LexPo, you will be able to get home
from jail before lunchtime.

The night before, make morning
plans with someone. I’ll meet you at
Co-op at 10:30. See you in D-hall at
11. Giving yourself a reason to get up
and having someone else hold you ac-
countable will force you to get your act
together.

2. Feel clean: Start off by allowing
yourself a nice long tooth brushwforget
singing “Happy Birthday” twice. Turn-
ing on Parliameht’s “Knee Deep” and
not putting the tooth brush down until
the end of the song will serve you a lot
better. Now that all of that tequila and
late-night pizza is out of your system,
it’s time to focus on your skin.

For those who can shower and get

ready in less than 20 minutes, I recom-
mend a quick, cold shower. For those
of us who are plagued by hair that gets
frizzy if it is not blow-dried and straight-
ened, I recommend a long face scrub
and foot wash to get all of the body
glitter, eye make-up, and Windfall mud
off your skin before hitting the books.
Play some soothing music while getting
ready. Turn off your Betchezz Gettin’
Crunk playlist and turn on something
like Lionel Richie’s “Easy (like a Sun-
day Morning).”

. 3. Have a nutritious brunch: Resist
the temptation to pour butterscotch chips
and caramel sauce on your wafﬂe at D-
hall. As much as I love to pretend that
stufﬁng my face will miraculously make
me feel better (just one more cookie will
do the trick), it will not. First, decide
whether you are in the mood for break-
fast food or lunch food. Being in «the
mood for both will result in a disgust-
ing mix of coffee, orange juice, bacon,
sausage, pancakes, and syrup followed
by a burger, fries and a Diet Coke. Yuck.
If you choose breakfast, something
like oatmeal and a banana or toast and
peanut butter will give you energy and
make you feel good. For lunch, I rec-
ommend a turkey sandwich and some
veggies from the salad bar. Do not get
near the fountain soda. Force yourself to
chug two full glasses of water. They will
momentarily make you feel sick, but
will help you in the long run. After that,

I recommend more water or a cup ofhot
tea. You can also have some dank azul
(blue Powerade), but too much of it will
make you feel gross.

Limit yourself to a 30-minute meal
so that you have time to gossip, but do
not waste the day away dwelling on
meaningless details (i.e. boys bragging
about how many brews they crushed and
girls analyzing the football star’s motive
for telling their friend she looked beauti-
ful). Now that that’s out of your system,
head to the library with a clear mind!

4. Block Facebook: When you arrive
at the library or wherever you prefer
to study, allow yourself l5 minutes of
Facebook. Then, sign off and block it.
Not blocking Facebook is the equivalent
of putting an oversized jersey in front of
a Beta and telling him not to wear it. The
temptation is overwhelming.

For those 15 precious minutes, check
for new ,up_loaded pictures and stalk
that cute boy or girl you met last night.
When you start feeling tempted to mes-
sage him or her because you realize that
the two of you have a random friend in
common, sign off and log onto SelfCon-
trol to block Facebook for the next three
hours.

5. Turn off your phone: Every second
we spend checking the time or rereading
funny text conversations from the night
before adds up, so do yourself a favor
and shut off your phone.

Before doing this, shoot your mom an

“I’m okay” text. I don’t know about you
all, but my mom usually likes checking
in on weekend mornings to make sure
that I’m okay. She thinks she is being
slick by disguising these check-in texts
by asking an “urgent” question. Let’s
be honest, does she really need to know
what sneaker size I wear at 9:13 on a
Saturday morning? Probably not. Do
your parents a favor and tell them that
you love them so that on the off chance
they try to contact you when your phone
is off, they will not get nervous.

6. Write a To-Do List: Boys, this bet-
ter not be a list of girls’ names...

Put together a list of everything on
your mind, from homework assign-
ments to phone calls you need to make
to plans to go to church. This will make
you feel in control of your schedule and
relaxed. Approximate how much time
each task will take so you will not daily
or convince yourself it is reasonable to
spend two hours reviewing how to ﬁnd
the median, mean and mode for your
statistics class.

7. Get Started: Get yourselfa big cup
of tea and some gum and get started.
Think positive thoughts and when you
get tempted to dream off and think about
how you looked in your toga, remember
how wonderful and accomplished you’ll
feel when you can crawl into bed at a
reasonable hour tonight!

Happy studying!

Opinions Editor Campbell Burr describes how to rebound from late nights and feel calm and focused on Sundays

What happens when boys decide they want adoration, status, and baller toys? Columnist Stockton Bullitt tells all

Around
the middle of
junior year, a
strange thing
starts happen-
ing to boys
on campus.
They go from
being passive
aggressively
competitive
about frater-
nities, and
instead start
worrying
about their fu-
ture careers.

However,
after spending more than a few years
only thinking about women and alcohol,
starting a career is only a fuzzy idea. All
guys know is that making lots of money
seems pretty nice. Money brings adora-
tion, status and some baller-status toys.
Those three incentives seem to be the
primary motivating factor in the transi-
tion from caring about fraternities to
caring about careers. So, when career
decisions are being fonnulated, most
guys think to themselves, “Which job
will get me the most adoration, status
and baller-status toys? Doctors won’t
make enough money in 20 years thanks
to ObamaCare. Lawyers have to read
too much and don’t start making money
until 30. So, I guess I should be an in-
vestment banker.”

I-Ionestly,‘ that’s pretty much the
whole thought process. Once each guy

By Stckton Bullitt
CO LU M N I ST

. decides that being an investment banker

is the best way to becoming adored, high

class and the owner of baller-status toys, /

he has to ﬁgure out what an investment
banker actually does. But then he real-
izes that actually knowing what the job
entails is pointless because obviously he
will be taught that once he gets the ca-
reer. So, he focuses on what he thinks is
the most important aspect of becoming
an investment banker: sounding like an
investment banker. Thus begins one of

the most adorable phases of the W&L
male’s college career, the Investment
Banker Phase.

Obviously the Investment Banker
Phase isn’t exclusive to W&L. I ﬁrst
noticed the Investment Banker Phase
in two friends who attend NESCAC
schools. Like the virus in “Contagion,”
the Investment Banker Phase has an R0
of four to ﬁve, so it’s spread to pretty
much everywhere. But if one attends an
Ivy or NESCAC school or a Southern
version of an Ivy or NESCAC school
(Georgetown, Duke, W&L, etc.), the
Investment Banker Phase is especially
prevalent. Also, the Investment Banker
phase isn’t exclusive to men. Consid-
ering they work harder and get better‘
grades, women from W&L are rightfully
taking up an increasing share of invest-
ment banking jobs. But since I’m not
invited to sorority lunches, I don’t know
the extent that the Investment Banker
Phase actually affects women at W&L.
I never hear girls talk a little too loudly
about their oversold equity picks or drop
some resume stats in casual conversa-
tion. Women probably have this problem
too, but I just don’t know.

Just because you know someone who

I says the word “NASDAQ” every day,

doesn’t mean that he or she is in the In-
vestment Banker Phase. There are some
people at this school who have been into
ﬁnance since a young age. They watched
CNBC more than Nickelodeon growing
up, and they feel the same way about EV/
EBITDA that I do about VORP. These
are the ﬁnance nerds, and they are in the
middle of their glory years. The number
of hookups they missed in high school
because “Mad Money” was on has been
offset by social hegemony over the ma-
jority of males at W&L. The Investment
Banker Phasers always defer to the sud-
denly omniscient ﬁnance nerds because
they are the ones who supposedly know
the game. Still, the ﬁnance nerds should
be treated with respect. Their love for
money and banking is genuine and will
continue when the Investment Banker

Phase turns into the My Kid is Better
Than Yours Phase in 10 years.

So what actually constitutes the In-
vestment Banker Phase? Well, here are
a couple of symptoms that should show
you if your friend has transitioned from
the Fraternity Phase into the Investment
Banker Phase. Remember that these
symptoms cannot have been prevalent
during the Fraternity Phase. If they
were, your friend is a ﬁnance nerd.

1) He talks about equities a little
too much. If he spends more than ﬁve
minutes telling you why Bank ofAmer-
ica will rebound, you know that he has
chugged the Jonestown Kool-Aid. For
that matter, if he uses Bank of America
in a sentence without also using “ATM,”
you should be worried. Just know that

l by the third time that he’s reminding you

about Warren Buffets faith in Bank of
America, you will want to shoot him in
the face.

2) He starts resume’ dropping in
casual conversations. Look, fraternity
lunch is NOT an information session.
Nobody cares how impressive your GPA
is. Just know that when your friend is
doing multiple résumé drops per sen-
tence, you should consult a physician.
This is the kind of sentence you will hear
from most Investment Banker Phasers:
“When I was talking to the President
of Ford, who by the way is a [insert
fraternity here] alum, he told me how
impressed he was with my upper level
mathematics knowledge, and he, too,
was the head of his investment society in
college. We’re boys now.” One way that
most Investment Banker Phasers prac-
tice this habit is by playing the “One Up
Game.” It’s like Jenga. Just talk to your
friend and keep reminding him that your
achievements are just a little bit better
than his are and wait to see who runs out
of things to say. The most impressive re-
sumé stat wins. «

3) He starts talking to you in a
patronizing tone even though he doesn’t
know anything more than you do. An
important aspect of power is having

subjects, and since investment bankers
have power, Investment Banker Phasers
want to practice ruling over people with
their supreme omniscience, so they start
with their friends. Conversations are
now accompanied with raised eyebrows
and annoying smirks. Investment Bank-
ing Phasers need to remind you of their
inherent superiority by throwing in the
occasional “Oh, you didn’t know that?”
and “You didn’t get the interview?”
Most W&L Investment Banking Phasers
are well practiced at this because they
would throw in the occasional “Oh you
didn’t get a bid?” or “Oh, you weren’t at
the rush trip?” during the height of their
fraternity phase.

4) He has fully converted to
the IB religion: The Street is God. De-
pending on the denomination, value
or growth is the Holy Spirit, and each
Banker is Christ incarnate. The Invest-
ment Banker Phasers dismiss their old
interests in pursuit of the holy IB relicsz‘
BMW’s, Manhattan ﬂats, “American
Psycho” style business cards and gold
watches. Of course, the priestly cloak is
replaced by a ﬂashy, “It’s as expensive
as it looks” suit.

If you’re friend is in the Investment
Banker Phase, don’t worry too much. As
long as he regularly goes to the doctor to
make sure that his hubris tumor hasn’t
gone malignant, he should grow out of
the phase around month three of work
when he realizes that working until one
every night isn’t that fun. I promise that
he won’t get annoying again until the
My Kid is Better Than Yours Phase.

Since I couldn’t ﬁgure out a good
way to both conclude this article and
allude to the fact that I am fully in the
Investment Banker Phase, I’ll just throw
in an extended analogy that has nothing
to do with this article. “Saturday Night
Live” is exactly like professional box-
ing. Both have gone from mainstream
culture inﬂuencers in the decades before
we were born to niche fomis of enter-
tainment. They appeal to certain types
of people who follow them religiously,

while also constantly being the source
of tired media ridicule for not being im-
portant anymore. Eddie Murphy was to
comedy what Mike Tyson was to sport.
Tina Fey and Manny Pacquiao are both
respected by the greater community and
devoutly followed by a small group of
fans. ,

More importantly, I have the same
conclusions with both “Saturday Night
Live” and professional boxing. It is
pointless to say that either of them will
“die” in the near future. It is a tired, stu-
pid argument. Both have a certain group
of people that are passionately devoted
to them, and moreover, the entertain-
ment quality has in no way diminished
in the years. Ortiz—Mayweather was
fantastically exciting, and the open-
ing episode of this season’s “Saturday
Night Live” with Alec Baldwin was
exquisite to watch. Furthermore, every
couple of years, both professional box-
ing and “Saturday Night Live” become
very relevant. Professional boxing will
become center stage in American culture
when Pacquiao and Mayweather eventu-
ally go at it, and “Saturday Night Live”
becomes the centerpiece of American
political culture during each Presidential
race.

However, “Saturday Night Live”
and professional boxing will NEVER
become the consistently relevant and
important entities they once were. There
is simply too much selection in today’s
entertainment choices for each to thrive
consistently. Furthermore, our cultural
values have changed so much that va-
riety shows and sports that encourage
concussions cannot rise to cultural rel-
evance anymore.

So, when you hear someone say that
either professional boxing or “Saturday
Night Live” will be dead in ﬁve years,
you know that he or she is an idiot.
Likewise, if you hear someone say that
professional boxing or “Saturday Night
Live” is on the verge of becoming the
next hot thing in American culture, you
know that he or she is an idiot.

net

 

  

, Chatham County Line brings bluegrass to W&L

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

arts&|ife

Travelling bluegrass band, Chatham County Line performed free for W&L students in Commons last Wednesday

By Scott Sugden
STAF F WRITE R

More than just dinner was being
sewed in the Marketplace last Wednes-
day night. Chatham County Line, an
internationally touring bluegrass band
from North Carolina was dishing out
free music to all who came to listen.
Booked in July, the concert was the ﬁrst
part of the Common Grounds Live Mu-
sic Series.

Wunda chair deemed “Wunderbar”

The concert opened at 6:30 p.m. with
a show by Drew Martin and the Lime-
lights, a student band, before Chatham
County Line took the stage at 7 p.m.

This was “the biggest concert I’ve
ever put on here” at Washington & Lee,
says Kelsey Goodwin, coordinator of
Elrod Commons and the one responsible
for organizing the concert. After receiv-

ing consistent feedback from students
who wanted to see more live music
events, Goodwinﬁgured, “let’s do it.”
Senior Chris Veddern said, “I ﬁgured
I’d go and see what they’re all about,
I’ve never heard them before.”
Goodwin saw Chatham County Line
perform at the Mockingbird, a restaurant
and music venue in nearby Staunton,

and felt they would be a “really good
fit” at Washington & Lee. With their
popularity steadily rising, Goodwin said
she wanted to “book them here while we
still can.”

The event was free and open to the
public thanks to the generous support of
WLUR, Washington and Lee’s radio sta-
tion. Starbucks coffee was also on sale at

the concert.

Mark your calendars: the next group
in the Common Grounds Live Music Se-
ries is The Cinnamon Band, scheduled
to perform Oct. 27. They are looking for
another student band to open the show,
so if any student bands want an oppor-
tunity to perform live, contact Kelsey
Goodwin. '

Looking to escape the gym for a while? Kelsey Cotter explains why Pilates is worth a second look

By Kelsey Cotter
STAFF WRITER

Tools such as the Reformer, the
Wunda Chair, the Cadillc, Trapeze table,
spring boards, and barrel may intimidate
the casual exerciser, but they help shape
the elegant figures of men and women
who use them in advanced Pilates.

Pilates is an excellent way to escape
the mundane atmosphere of a gym, and
work muscles all over your body.

Erin Garvin is a certiﬁed Pilates in-
structor in Roanoke, Va. at EmPower
studio. Upon ﬁrst meeting Garvin it is
hard not to stare in awe at her impec-
cably toned ﬁgure and inviting smile.
Her infectious excitement about Pilates
makes this form of exercise sound entic-
ing. To Garvin, Pilates is not merely a
workout, it is a way of life.

“Pilates is about alignment and prop-
er movement and it can help you for the
rest of your life” says Garvin. Garvin,

now 39, is an avid mountain biker and
enjoys kayaking. She ﬁrst became inter-
ested in Pilates in 1997 after traveling
across the country to California.

“In California, Pilates studios are like
Hardees restaurants here in Roanoke,
they are everywhere!” said Garvin, and
she brought her passion for Pilates back
to the east coast.

Garvin, however, was not always the
long, lean woman she is today. She said
that before Pilates she was built a bit
like a wrestler. She had the bulk and the
strength, but found back extensions re-
quired in Pilates challenging. Overtime,
Pilates toned, stretched and aligned her
muscles, giving her the ﬁgure of a beau-
tiful dancer.

“So often people focus rigidly on
hammering out bicep curls at the gym
that they fail to work the muscles that

lift you up and support you,” she said.

She says that Pilates helps her in
every aspect of her life, especially in
mountain biking. “My shoulders don’t
hunch and I’m able to breath steadily
during a hard workout on my bike,” said
Erin.

Marty Call, a resident of Roanoke,
Va., takes classes with Garvin at Em-
Power. She competed as a body builder
from the age of 24 to 27 in Wythville,
Charlottesville, and Virginia Beach. Call
changed direction after age 27 when she
realized that she had pushed her muscles
to their limit.

“I was as big as I was going to get
naturally”, says Call. She met a Pilates
instructor in Charlottesville, which led
her to the Reformer machine that she
now has in her house.

The Reformer allows for stretching

and strengthening your muscles through
resistance bands that are attached to the
machine. Call explains that for her Pi-
lates is a totally different type of work-
out that focuses on your stabilizer mus-
cles, which keep you balanced and long.

“I still lift weights twice a week. A
little bit of everything is good for your
body”, says Call.

Anne Lemon of the Washington and
Lee development office teaches an af-
ternoon Pilates class open to faculty and
students. She said that Pilates translates
into everything you do in life, from
walking to weightlifting.

“The number one area of awareness I
like to focus on is the shoulders because
of how much they are used”, says Lem-
on. As far as posture and body aware-
ness go, Lemon said that Pilates assists
unquestionably in both.

“You learn to hold your core still
while moving, which targets deeper ab-
dominal muscles” adds Lemon.

Sophomore Abbey brown devotes
the majority of her workout time to Pi-
lates. “I love it. It’s relaxing, but it raises
my heart rate. I use muscles I didn’t
even know I had”, said Brown.

The more advanced Pilates Fusion
class led by Jessie Knadler is held on
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:00-
6:00 p.m. Intermediate Pilates is held
on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays
from 10:10-11:05 a.m. Pilates with Anne
Lemon is held on Tuesdays and Thurs-
days from 12:15-l :10 p.m.

Stan Kamen Gallery transports Viewers into the West

The exibit includes paintings, photos and statues from the American West displayed in Lenfest and Leyburn

By Gabrielle Tremo
STAF F warren

“As evidenced by the paintings,
prints, and sculptures in the Kamen Col-
lection, the fascination with the Ameri-
can West continues today” - Plaque be-
side painting, Leybum Library.

America has always been fascinated
by the West. Maybe it is an age we wish
to revisit, ﬁlled with discovery, revolu-
tionary idealism, bravery, independence,
and natural human intuition. Or perhaps
it was the idea of the open plains with no
boundaries, no barriers and only a night
under the placid ebony sky awaiting
you. Whatever it is about the West that
fascinates us, we can now experience it
vicariously in the Stan Kamen Collec-
tion that graces the walls of the Lenfest
Center and Leybum Library.

Stan Kamen ‘49 donated this West-
em Art collection to Washington and
Lee in 1986. “Although he was a na-
tive of New York City,” reads an exhibit
description, “Kamen became a true son
of the west ﬁlling his home and ofﬁce
with paintings, prints and sculptures re-
ﬂecting his love of horses and the west-
ern landscape. The Kamen Collection
brings a view of the American West and
particularly of the “Old West” that has
been created by some of America’s fore-

most twentieth-century western artists.”

The collection is indeed exquisite
and, while similar in genre, ranges
greatly in its depictions and its media.
The hangings in Lenfest range from de-
tailed and vibrant watercolors to classi-
cal, profound oil on canvas. The medi-
ums themselves are diverse, featuring
everything from modest, yet masterful
pencil sketches to solid bronze statues.
They also speak to the genuineness and
the wealth of culture that existed in this
time. These pieces depict everything:
from the simplest everyday actions, like
a Native American woman slowly, me-
ticulously washing a bowl, to the things
of Western legend, like the celebrated
buffalo hunt.

In the back of the gallery hangs a
large, imposing acrylic on canvas by
Ray Hare. The prominent head of a Na-
tive American chief sticks out against a
deep purple background. The paintings
artist, Ray Hare, is well known for his
natural imagery, but this piece is special.
Itiwas taken from an old photo, in the
age when the West was still wild and the
essence of the culture was alive. “In this
painting,” reads an information card,
“the use of purple gives the impression

of a black and white photograph. By
placing the proﬁle so close to the edge
of the canvas, Hare gives the impression
oflooking through a magnifying glass at
the Native American culture.” Looking
into the painting is like interviewing an
ancient man, a man who has seen and
experienced more than could be possi-
bly told. The texture of the worn skin
and the feathers on his headdress give
the painting an unimaginable realness.
But the most striking feature on the
piece is the chief’s eyes. They glimmer
with wisdom from the dead center of
the photo. The strong proud authority
shown here is a timeless image of the
culture it represents.

The walls are lined with many oth-
er exquisite representations of West-
ern life, including detailed sketches of
horses and riders by Gordon Philips,
the life of a rancher on the open plains,
a gold panner in the mountain streams
and rocky cliffs, and images of the ma-
jestic buffalo. The exhibit has whimsi-
cal pieces, such as a tribe riding trium-
phantly home on horseback, as well as
poignant images of the decline of the
west, such as a wounded man lying
alone in the snow. These symbolize the

myth, the reality, and the mystery of the
West, from the culture and people to the
untouched landscapes. Each photo is de-
tailed, each sketch lifelike, each statue
so genuine that the viewer is transported
to the place that the art depicts.

As you gaze upon the streamlined
brush strokes or each individual scratch
of pencil lead, no longer are you standing
in the Lenfest Center, with its dimmed
glowing lighting and the chill of the air
conditioner. You are standing at the riv-
erbank. Water runs over your dry, dusty
feet. The sun is bright on a hot after-
noon—it beats down on your flapping
linen clothes. You smell the smoke ofthe
lunchtime ﬁres, of smoking vegetables
and fresh meet, and the sweet fragrant
birch wood that surrounds the valley.
From your right, elegant men in vibrant
colors emerge from the wood atop wild,
painted stallions. In the distance, beyond
the dusty plain, mountains glimmer like
iridescent jewels under a clear, vast blue
sky. From your pocket, your cell phone
beeps, and you are no longer ankle deep
in cool, crisp»/mountain water, but stand-
ing, wide-eyed at Gordon Philip’s vivid

, oifpainting, “Council Meeting.”

It is with great satisfaction that I sug-

gest walking down to Lenfest to visit
this enthralling gallery. While one could
get lost in these photos, paintings and
statues for hours, even ten or twenty
minutes would allow for a wonderful
experience. The time that one devotes
is well worth the satisfaction received:
a trip away from that Calculus test on
Friday, a world away from the unﬁn-
ished paper, a vacation from the chilly
Lexington fall and into a frame of blue
skies, clear weather and sun-dappled
life. The Stan Kamen Gallery provides
more than a glance at the portraits it fea-
tures, but an actual in-depth look into
another time and another place, one of
wonder, majesty and grace. The West.

The Stan Kamen Gallery can be
found on the first ﬂoor of the Lenfest
Center, adjacent to Wilson Hall. It will
be featured until December.

Famous oceanographer Visits

Dr Sylvia Earle serves as a role model for women pursuing a career in the sciences

By Cynthia Lam
5 TA F F w R I T E R

World-renowned oceanographer Dr.
Sylvia Earle delivered the first talk of
the Women in Science lecture series in a
packed Stackhouse Theater last Monday
night.

“Earle is truly a pioneer in her ﬁeld,
and she has accomplished amazing
things,” said Geology Professor Dr.
Lisa Greer, who organized the event and
founded the series. “We really wanted
to have some big names,” she said, “so
students could have strong female role
models and see women in successful,
high proﬁle positions in science.”

Earle has spent over 7000 hours un-
derwater for her research and Library of
Congress has called her a “living leg-
end.” She holds multiple diving records,
was Time magazine’s ﬁrst “Hero of the
Planet” in 1998, and is currently a Na-
tional Geographic explorer-in-residence.

During her lecture, “The World is

Blue,” Earle described the role of new
technology in helping humans under-
stand and protect the ocean.

“Technology has changed our per-
spective of the planet. Now we can con-
nect the dots in ways that we couldn’t
before,” said Earle, referring to new
ocean display features in Google Earth
5.0, which has allowed scientists to chart
the identities and locations of undersea
organisms.

According to Earle, only 5 percent
of the ocean has been mapped with the
same amount of accuracy as the land.
“We’ve barely scratched the surface -
literally - in terms of the depths of the
ocean, she said, “The greatest era of ex-
ploration is just beginning, and most of
it is wet.”

This is a growing problem because
humans are rapidly depleting marine life
and showing no intention to stop any

time soon.

“We know how to catch tuna, how
to eat them, and how to prepare them in
a number of ways, but we don’t know
how to put them back into the system
after they’ve been depleted,” said Earle.
Consequently, only 10 percent of the
original tuna population is left today.

Despite the daunting facts, Earle re-
mains optimistic about the future. “The
good news is that people now care about
the environment in ways they couldn’t
have before,” she said, “we can change
our ways. We have the power, we have
the time, and that time is now.” She
encouraged audience members to learn
about oceanic life and gain awareness of
these issues.

Biology Professor Dr. Larry Hurd
agreed with this message. “Knowing
how nature works gives us a handle on
how to live with it,” he said, “People

can best prepare themselves to solve
problems by learning as much as pos-
sible about what is really going on. This
requires carefully listening to what sci-
ence is telling us.”

The lecture had a large turnout and
received positive reviews. “I was
thrilled to see a packed room, and lwas
so happy to see so many young women
in the audience,” said Greer, who also
said she hopes this program will encour-
age more females to pursue careers in
science.

First-year Sara Korash-Shiff said, “I
felt a sense of pride seeing a woman in
the sciences accomplishing such amaz-
ing things in her ﬁeld.”

David Dennis, a biology and envi-
ronmental studies double major, was
also impressed by the distinguished
scientist. “Dr. Earle was a very engag-
ing speaker,” he said, “and highlighted

many areas that need further research
with the oceans and environment, which
could potentially be my future calling.”

The next speaker in the series will be
historian Dr. Naomi Oreskes, who will
talk about the history of women in sci-
ence on Monday, Nov. 14.

6

- THE RING-TUM PHI-

MON DAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011

‘-.

 

Interested in the CIA
or other government service ?

Information Session
Monday, October 3
5:00 pm
Huntley 323

Open to all students.
F irst-years and Sophomores
strongly encouraged to attend.
CIA recruiter also available for resume

reviews during the day.
Call Career Services for appointment.

CareerServices

 

In need ofa practice interview?
Now is your chance to
practice with an employer!

A recruiter from FDIC will be on campus
Thursday. September 29
to test students’ interview skills
and offer feedback.

Contact the CareerServices office to
sign up for a practice interview time.
You do not have to be interested in
FDIC job opportunities to participate.

In addition, there will be an
Information Session
about FDIC internships andjobs
Thursday, September 29
5:00 p.m., Huntley 523

 

 CareerServices

I ‘// 5:2 Z‘/zere.
e an /7d/7 OAIZ‘ .
/<2/762? eZ‘Z‘er e C453 do
you /7Q\/e,.7

phi@w|u.edu - spicakd12@mai|.w|u.edu

l'orVl&L.lycll.Iyel|,lyel|.l
And for the universitxlyell like hell!

  

 

  

- THE RING-TUM PHI-

  

MON DAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011

ALEXANDER MARAGIDS

Grace and power—few activities combine these adjectives bet-
ter than hockey. When the playersiwhisk up and down the ice con-
trolling the puck, the game resembles a choreographed ballet. But
when two players battle for position, hockey quickly becomes a
collision sport showcasing strength and tenacity. The game is an
irresistible mix of ﬁnesse and force.

 
 

sports  

S'l‘EPIlE1 I PECK

Wade Belak was a I4 year NHL veteran who retired last March.
He had a wife and two young daughters.'

Belak stood 6’5” and weighed 225 pounds. He amassed 8 goals,
33 points, over a thousand penalty minutes, and 136 ﬁghts over his
career. Belak was an enforcer: a guy who is essentially paid to ﬁght,
to protect the team’s star player, and provide a hulking, intimidating

Fights are the epitome of aggression in hockey. They have been
a part of the game since the sport was invented. I’ll be clear—I’m
not the meatball who is going to oppose a ban on ﬁghting just be-
cause it started on a frozen lake in Canada over 100 years ago. I
like the 3-point line, helmets, the designated hitter, mouth,,guards,
and other improvements and rule changes in sports.

However, ﬁghting cuts too close to the core of hockey to ban it.
Confrontation is an integral part of the game, and whether they’re

Hockey, a notoriously aggressive sport, may

be undergoing some changes in the future.
Many want to see rules implemented to -
decrease the violence, while others believe
ﬁghting is a part of the game. Stephen and '
' Alex give their own opinions.

physical presence.

Wade Belak is dead. The 35-year-old hung himself in his To-
ronto condo on August 31. g

Last May, another tough guy in hockey, Derek Boogaard, died of
an accidental overdose of alcohol and oxycodone. He was 28. Rick
Rypien, an agitator for the Vancouver Canucks, committedsuicide
on August l5th. H-e was 27

Alllthree were not on NHL rosters because of their offensive

punching each other in the face or not, many hockey players see
aggressive play as an important step to victory. Take the term “enforcer,” for instance; that is truly
a hockey term.

Do we really think that players will stop trying to hurt each other if we forbid them to drop the
gloves? Without ﬁghting, hockey players will ﬁnd new (and perhaps more dangerous) ways to take
their aggression out on opposing players.

According to hockeyﬁghts.com, a “ﬁghting major”» penalty was handed out in 37% of NHL
gameslast season. Am I the only one that thinks this is surprisingly low? I would have guessed
somewhere between 45% and 50%.

37% seems low because fans perceive ﬁghting to be a bigger part of hockey than it actually is. I

Fans are bombarded with images of ﬁghting hockey players. Watch a string of hockey highlights
and what do you get? You’ll likely see a couple of goals, maybe a shootout highlight (if you’re
lucky) and probably footage of a ﬁght if there is one.

Remember, ﬁghting is technically illegal in the NHL. That’s why players receive penalties and
go to that little box to get mocked by people like “The Green Man” in Vancouver. NHL ofﬁcials
are extremely good at breaking up a ﬁght after there is a clear winner and loser. This year’s NHL
Rulebook has ﬁve and a half pages devoted to ﬁghting and how the ofﬁcials should properly dif-
fuse a_ ﬁght. The referee and linesmen often prevent senseless confrontation beyond what the two
players signed up for when they dropped the gloves.

Sure, I go to a game because I want to see good hockey, but I watch sports to be entertained.
A hockey ﬁght is very entertaining. I derive value from sports because of how they make me feel.
There are many arguments that sports are more than games in many respects, or that they are really
becoming a business more than anything. In the end, all the team really sells is a feeling. Hockey
teams sell a better product with ﬁghting as a part of the game.

The main criticism is that ﬁghting has serious short and long term consequences for players.
If hockey players really .wanted to improve their health, they would stop ﬁghting each other or
push for a ban in the next NHL Collective Bargaining Agreement. Those are short and long term

solutions. Nobody is really making the players ﬁght; they have a choice, and they’re choosing to

continue play this way. ,

Hockey is deﬁned by its physical play. If you don’t believe me, take it from one of America’s
greatest comedian’s, the late George Carlin. Carlin once said of hockey, “Hockey is three activities
going on at the same time: ice skating, playing with a puck and beating the s**t out of somebody.”

 

prowess. Belak and Boogaard’s roles were clearly deﬁned. They
were paid pugilists on skates, hired goons who earned their keep with their ﬁsts, rather than their
scoring touch. In hockey, it is about accountability. The logic goes, that ifyou want to take a cheap
shot at a star player, be prepared to ﬁght that team’s tough guy the next time you are on the ice.

But in light of these tragedies, there has to be a change. Many people are hesitant to link.these
deaths to ﬁghting. I’m not. .

We are only scratching the surface of ﬁnding out what ﬁghting does to a person mentally and
physically. The blood on the ice is easy to see. So are the stitches and scars on an enforcer’s face.
The brain trauma is not quite as easy to deflect. Years of smashing bare-knuckle ﬁsts to heads takes
a toll, and degenerative brain diseases are being discovered in hockey ﬁghters.

Bob Probert, widely regarded as the best ﬁghter ever in the NHL, died last September at the age
of 45. His brain was donated to researchers and it was discovered that he had widespread chronic
traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease caused by multiple concussions. I

Probert had his demons. He battled alcohol and cocaine problems his whole life. And I’m go-
ing to go out on a limb and say that had something to do with his role as an enforcer. Drugs can
be a coping mechanism, an escape from the reality that when you go to work each night, you are
expected to ﬁght someone.

Todd Fedoruk, another NHL tough guy who has battled drug addictions, echoed that senti-
ment in an AP story earlier this month: “Could the pressure ofﬁghting make you want to pick up
[drugs]? Yeah, I think that can be a trigger. I think it is a trigger. For me, it was. You just want to
forget about having to fight the guy. You line up against a guy like [Boogaard], God rest his soul,
but he’s 267. He’s a big man. You think about that a week before you ﬁght him.”

Recently retired Georges Laraque, a legendary hockey ﬁghter in his own right also spoke ofthe
hellish life of an NHL enforcer to the Minnesota Star-Tribune: “This mental struggle is constant,
because when this game is over, then there’s the next [ﬁght], then you think about the next guy, and
after a while this can drive you crazy.”

All this and for what? You can’t say that ﬁghting allows the players to police themselves and
that it’s honorable and respectable when two men agree to square off. I understand that hockey
is an emotional sport and a skirmish will sometimes break out for that reason. But to say that the‘
threat ofa ﬁght is a deterrent to cheap shots holds no weight with me, because clearly head shots
and dirty play still exists in the game today. A simple solution is ramping up the penalties. Want to

elbow Sidney Crosby in the head? Sit out for 10 games with no pay. At the end of the day, hockey .

is these players’ income. They don’t want their paycheck taken away. They can deal with ﬁghting
someone; they can’t deal with losing money. I
. And to say that hockey without ﬁghting would turn a lot of fans away is-asinine. There is not
much ﬁghting in playoff hockey and none at all in the Olympics (why waste a roster spot on a guy
who can’t contribute offensively?) and those are hugely popular events. Hockey is a highly skilled,
fast paced game. Fighting has no part in it.
Hockey is a beautiful game with a dangerous problem. People are dying now. That should be
enough to say “no more.” i
From the same Sun-Times article is a story about Brantt Myhres, another hockey player who
fought to make a living. Myhres had just fought Laraque in a preseason game in 2005. Myhres
needed surgery to repair broken bones in his face. i

“I was done,” he said. “I was physically and mentally exhausted from the role. I walked out [of
the locker room] and I couldn’t see out of my eye. It was totally swollen shut. Ijust started breaking
down. I said I can’t do this any more.”

Myhres could not afford to ﬁght any longer.
Neither can the NHL.

 Shoot us an email.
phi@wlu.edu
  2@mail.wlu.edu  

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MON DAY, SEPTEMBER 26. 2011

sports

 

ondeck

    

MON Tues WED THURS FRI SAT
VS
Football Guilford
1:30 PM
vs at
Eastern Virginia
Volleyball Mennonite wesleyan
6:30 PM 11
MEWS at Ferrum at
Soccer 7 PM Randolph
4:30 PM
Women's V‘ 3‘
Roanoke V: :3:/[U Sweet Briar
Soccer 4 PM 12 PM
_ at vs
Fleld Shenandoah Lynchburg
Hockey 5 PM 1 PM
(3055 Lehigh Paul
lnvit.
COUNTY 1:45PM
Randolph- Randolph-
Golf \/iacon lnvit. Macon lnvit.
Day 1 Day 2

. 
in the numbers
i103

The number of miles endurance swimmer Diana Nyad is cur-
rently attempting to swim. She is crossing from Cuba to Florida
in attempt to break her own record for an open—water crossing

without a shark cage. So far, she has been stung byjellyﬁsh

twice and encountered s few sharks.

2:03.38

The time it took Kenyan Patrick Makau to run a marathon on

Sunday, good enough to set a new world record. He ﬁnished
the race 21 seconds faster than the previous mark, set by dis-
tance-running legend Haile Gebrselassie, whom Makau outran

on his way to setting the new record.

2003

The last time the Buffalo Bills defeated the New England Pa-
triots before Sunday’s game when the Bills picked off Patriots
quarterback Tom Brady four times en route to a 34-31 victory,
capped by a game—winning ﬁeld goal by the Bills as time ran

out.

2

The number of teams ranked second in this week's
Coaches’ poll for college football. LSU and Alabama
are tied with 1,404 points a peice, right behind top-
ranked Oklahoma. Both teams are 4-0, though LSU

received 20 ﬁrst-place votes to Alabama's seven.

soapbox

"Looking at the replays, I ’m on the ground every time, and
I’d be lying ifl said I wasn’t frustrated. The refs have got to
do their jobs. And I mentioned it to the refs in training camp
when I talked to them. I'm on the ground constantly, all the
time. Every time I throw the ball, I'm on the ground. And I
don’t know why I don’t get the 15-yard flags like everybody

else does."

-Aﬂnrleavlngsundaysame against the Newwrkelants
with a broken hand, Philadelphia Eayes quarterback
Mlchaelwdrlasliedouf-Sﬂvllldhewashurtonalatehltand
thatan lnlurywas Inevitable.

”I have no negative personal feelings toward our previous
commissioner, but I ‘m alarmed by the fact that in 15 months
we lost three teams and I'm aware in detail in how of some
of those situations played out. I don't feel it was inevitable

that we lost those three teams.”
-UnIvarsl'tyofOldahomaprasIdentDav1dBoran, ratbning
toformerBIg12commlsslonerDan Beebeandtherecent
departures ofoolorado, Nebrasla and Ta:asA&M from
theoontbranoo. Oklahoma wasakay1bmebehlndBeebe’s

raelmaﬂonnomhlspost.

 

Volleyball streak ends

W&L ’s record season-opening streak ends at 13, but the team is back

By Angela Williams
5 TA F F w R 1T E R

It had to happen eventually. The Washing-
ton and Lee volleyball team suffered its ﬁrst"
loss ofthe season in a 3-1 decision to Geneva

_College on Friday afternoon, the ﬁrst day of
the Pioneer Classic at Marietta College.

The Generals had extended their winning
streak earlier in the week whenthey moved
to 13-0 on the season, and 4-0 against ODAC
competition, with a 3-0 sweep of Bridgewatcr
College. They easily took down the Eagles
25-12, 25-19, 25-10 Tuesday afternoon.

Sophomore outside hitter M.A. Boles con-
tinued her offensive power, recording 14 kills
and hit to ﬁnish the match with an incredible
.778 hitting percentage, tying the fourth-best
mark at W&L. Hitting percentage in volley-
ball is avratio of kills to attempts.

‘ Contributing to‘ W&L’s success, senior
outside hitter Megan Daily added ﬁve kills
while senior middle blocker Lindsey Dee had
four. Sophomore setter Meghan Meleski ac-

 

counted for three of the General’s 10 service
aces, and leading the defensive side, junior
libero Cameron Hill led the team with seven
digs. Boles was right behind her with six.

The Generals limited the Eagles to hitting
only .054 for the match.

The team’s best start in program. history
came to an end in its next match. Geneva took
down the Generals 3-1 on Fpiday evening,
winning the ﬁrst set 25-23 but dropping the
next three 18-25, 18-25, 23-25.

Hill had an outstanding 24 digs, while
ﬁrst-year setter Corinne Hemmersbach added
19 and Boles came up 17 more.

Senior outside hitter Megan Daily provid-
ed the General’s offensive power, recording
14 kills, while junior right side hitter Taylor
Maxey had 11 kills and three blocks. ’

The next morning saw the team’s second
loss, as Marietta got the best of the Generals
in straight sets, 25-16, 25-21, 25-16.

 

to winning

The Generals got back to their winning
ways later that afternoon against John Car-
roll, rallying in the ﬁfth set to take the match
25-16, 25-9, 23-25, 22-25, 15-11. The victory
moved W&L to 14-2 on the season and still
4-0 in ODAC play.

Boles was back to her dominating ways,
leading the team in both kills and digs, with
17 and 20 respectively, while also adding
three blocks. Daily was right behind her with
16 kills, and Dee recorded 13 kills and lead
the team with ﬁve blocks.

First-year defensive specialist Kelly Mc-
Manus served up six aces and contributed to
the defensive side with 17 digs. Maxey tal-
lied nine kills for the match, and Meleski was
there with 48 assists, 10 digs and two blocks.

The women will be back in Lexington on
Tuesday totake on conference-foe Eastern
Mennonite at 6:30 p.m.

3 o I U «  u ' ..-tiri“ \
r a 1 i i "1""-§*‘a -» .~ ,
, » i
. 4 4 . j, 4,, u , 
i
.1;
u s A o k e 1 '=~l~f*

 

’ COURTESYENERA ss.oM

cots can’tstop comeback

A school-record 65 7 gives W &L the win over A/ma College in a 49-42 shootout

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

In a game dominated by the offenses, the’
Washington and Lee football team came up
with a fourth-quarter comeback to pull out a
49-42 win over Alma College at Wilson Field
on Saturday afternoon. The win moves W&L
to 3-1 on the season.

The Generals accumulated 444 yards
on the ground on their way to racking up a
school-record 657 total yards. Alma ﬁnished
with 475 yards, 350 of which came from the
passing game.

W&L entered the fourth quarter trailing
by only one point, but an early touchdown by
Alma made the score 42-34 with only 13 min-
utes left in the game.

A short drive later, however, the Generals
also found the end zone when junior running
back Brett Murray, who accumulated 200
yards in the game on only 15 carries, ran for
15 yards and six points. Senior quarterback
Charlie Westfal hooked up with sophomore
tight end Alex Evans for a two-point conver-
sion, tying the score at 42-42 with 10:38 still
on the clock.

Fumbles by both teams on their ensuing
possessions left the score tied with neither
threatening. On their next attempt, and with
fewer than six minutes remaining, the Scots
entered the Generals’ red zone. Senior line-
backer John Kavanagh rose to the occasion,
intercepting an Alma pass at the 9-yard line

event

event

 

field hockey

menoorosscouolry -

Dickinson Invit.

3 golf

Bridgewater lnvit.

and returning it 22 yards to give the Gener-
als possession on their own 31-yard line with
5:47 left to play.

W&L marched methodically down the
ﬁeld, moving 69 yards on 11 plays and reach-
ing the end zone on a 4-yard run by junior
running back Luke Heinsohn. With only 37
seconds remaining on the clock, the Scots ran
out oftime and the Generals secured the win.

The game began with W&L ﬁrmly in con-
trol. A six-yard touchdown run by junior re-
ceiver Russell Stewart put the Generals on the
board ﬁrst, and a 20-yard ﬁeld goal by senior
placekicker Peter Alston put the team up 10-0
to end the ﬁrst quarter.

Alma ﬁrst got on the board with 7:20 re-
maining in the half after a short drive ended
with a four-yard touchdown run, bringing the
score to 10-7.

On the ﬁrst play ofthe next drive, and only
20 seconds later, Murray took off on a 62-yard
touchdown run to bring the Generals’ lead
back to 10. W&L added even more to the lead
on their next possession when Westfal found
senior receiver Tate Davis for 54 yards and a
score.

A second Alma touchdown and a 35-yard
ﬁeld goal by Alston as time was running out
sent the teams into the half with the Generals
leading 27-14.

The Scots started off the scoring for the

 
 

date result
09/24 11th of 16

 

third quarter, reaching the end zone with a 21-
yard pass. The Generals managed to take ﬁve
minutes off the clock on their next drive, as
they went 76 yards in 12 plays, capped with
a four yard run by Heinsohn for a touchdown.

Holding onto a 34-21 lead, the Generals
encountered problems on both sides of the
ball. Alma proceeded to score 21 unanswered
points and take the lead for the ﬁrst time all
day. W&L managed to ﬁnd the points it need-
ed before time ran out to pull out the win.

Westfal was nearly perfect through the air,
making 13-of-16 passes for a season-high 213
yards and one touchdown while also carrying
the ball 13 times for 72 yards. Heinsohn re-
corded his own season high after rushing for
123 yards and two touchdowns on 26 tries.

On defense, senior linebacker Rob Look
came up with a team-high nine tackles, and
junior linebacker Stephen Peck added eight
tackles and a pair of sacks. Kavanagh record-
ed two interceptions along with two tackles.

The previous mark for most yards gained
in a game was 652, set in a 67-7 win over
the University of Richmond in 1950. With
his ﬁve attempts today, Alston has now made
61-straight PATS, a school record.

The team will be back on the ﬁeld this Sat-
urday for Homecoming as they start confer-
ence play against Guilford. Kickoff is set for
1:30 p.m. at Wilson Field.

one u date

melts soccer

Opponent date result. opponent date result
Bridgewater 09/23 L 3-1 _
Eastern Mennonite 09/20 L 2-1
Hampden-Sydney 09/24 W2-0

womon’s soccer

result

opponent date

Greensboro 09/18 W4-0
date result _Rand0lph 09/21 W8—0

Eastern Mennonite 09/24 W 5-0

09/19 2nd of 15

