 

 

Ii

1    Watch out, parents...

OPINIONS / page 3

Check out these concerts!
Student music groups to perform in Lee
Chapel and Wilson this weekend.You know

you wanna listen to their sweet tunes.
« , ARTS&LlFE/ page6

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011

I‘!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY’

° Tr-IE RING-TUM PHI.

IHE SIUUEHTS

AID FOR

rue siunulrs SIIICE

1597

VOLUME CXV, NUMBER 6»

Mock Con shirts: to sell or not to sell?

Bookstore rejects thirteen state delegation t—shirt designs, some for aloclzol references and inappropriate language

By Kelly Mae Ross
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The University Bookstore has re-
jected several of the Mock Convention
state delegation t—shirt designs that were
displayed at the delegate fair earlier this
month.

According to K.C. Schaefer, associ-
ate director and merchandise manager
for the bookstore and a W&L alum, the
bookstore enforced a broader university
policy on graphic review when it as-
sessed the t—shirt designs, 13 of which
were rejected.

Some of the rejected designs include
those from New Hampshire (“We come
ﬁrst...”), Utah (“I <3 <3 <3 polygamy”)
and Guam (“The snake in America’s
trousers”), according to Schaefer.

Members of the bookstore staff, in-
cluding Schaefer, conducted an initial
review of all 55 shirts. Four shirts were
ﬂat-out rejected for references to alcohol
or inappropriate language and 12 other
potentially inappropriate designs were
ﬂagged for further review. A committee
made up of two members of the book-
store staff and four members of Student

«Affairs conducted this second review.

Prior to submitting the designs to
the bookstore, the executive committee
of the convention reviewed them and
weeded out those it thought were inap-
propriate. Tricia King, general chair of
the convention, said the committee con-
sidered levels of creativity and appropri-
ateness when reviewing the designs.

King said that the committee allowed
some shirt designs that “toed the line”
between appropriate and inappropriate
to go through because committee mem-
bers thought that the creativeness factor
outweighed the potential lack of appro-
priateness. '

“There’s always a sense that we want
to outdo the [Mock Convention] before
[us]. So I think in doing that you can

 
 

’ FRIDAY, OCT. 28

push the boundaries a little bit, which is
a good thing in a lot ways, but not al-
ways in  the way of t-shirts,” she said.

King said that the news of poten-
tial design rejections did not come as
too much of a surprise to the execu-
tive committee, though the bookstore
had not made its ﬁnal decisions at the
time of King’s interview. She said that
the executive committee entered into
an agreement with the bookstore that
would allow the store to have ﬁnal say
on all Mock Con merchandise designs
since the store is helping with the order-
ing and price negotiation aspects of the
memorabilia.

“We [the executive committee]
signed off on that in the beginning and
we knew to some extent that [this review
process] would happen. So I wouldn’t
call it censorship as much as I would call
it approval,” King said.

But while the executive committee
may not have been surprised by news of
the design rejections, some of the state
chairs were.

ONE FINE TRADITION...

The design for the Tennessee delega-
tion t-shirt is among those that have been
rejected by the bookstore. The t—shirt de-
sign was vetoed because it prominently
featured a Jack Daniels whiskey bottle
on the back. The whiskey bottle label
was altered to have information about
W&L and the Tennessee delegation in-
stead ofthe standard Jack Daniel’s logo,
and beneath the bottle was the slogan,
“One ﬁne tradition deserves another.”

Hank Ingram, Tennessee state chair,
said he took the design ofhis state’s shirt
very seriously. He said he spent hours in
front of the computer, working pixel by
pixel to create the W&L-speciﬁc label
for the whiskey bottle.

“I didn’t think it would be an issue

 

8:00 AM

9:00 AM — 5:00 PM
9:00 AM — 4:00 PM
1:00 PM — 3:00 PM
1:30 PM — 2:30 PM

1:30 PM - 2:30 PM
3:00 PM — 4:00 PM
3:00 PM — 4:00 PM
4:00 PM ' 5:30 PM
4:00 PM -— 5:30 PM
5:00 PM — 7:00 PM
7:00 PM

8:00 PM — 10:00 PM

9:00 AM — 10:00 AM

10:30 AM

11:00 AM -91:00 PM
11:00 AM — 3:00 PM
3:00 PM — 4:00 PM
6:00 PM — 8:00 PM
7:00 PM

8:00 PM — 10:00 PM

CLASSES BEGIN

mostly because I felt it wasn’t explicitly
saying, ‘Hey. drink Jack Daniel’s,’” In-
gram said. “I felt it was taking a pop cul-
ture icon and twisting it to W&L.”

Ingram said he was informed last
week that his design did not make the
cut, and he has since started working on
a new design.

But he isn’t happy about it.

Ingram said he doesn’t think it was
fair of the bookstore to veto all shirt de-
signs containing any references to alco-
hol.

“I mean it’s ridiculous. We can’t sell
a t-shirt that has an alcohol bottle on it,
but in the bookstore we can sell shot
glasses and tumblers and all this stuff. 
What are people going to be putting in
those‘? Coca-cola?”

Ingram said that he received no
warning that his shirt design might be
inappropriate between the time that his
preliminary and final designs were sub-
mitted.

Frank Cullo, New Hampshire state
chair, was also not happy when he heard
that his state t—shirt design was going to
be rejected by the bookstore.

Cullo said he thought it was “com-
pletely unfair” to allow the state chairs
to recruit people for their delegations
with slogans and t-shirts that students
won't be allowed to use anymore.

This is not the first time the univer-
sity has dealt withliinappropriate Mock
Con state t-shirts. In fact, the steps that
the university and the bookstore are tak-
ing with respect to the shirts may be a
partial result oft-shirts that were printed
in the past that members of the W&L
community found offensive.

THE IDAHO SIIIRT

In preparation for the 2000 Mock
Convention, students from the Idaho
delegation had t-shirts made at a lo-

cal shirt shop that
faculty and
students re-
ferred to

as “the

Idaho

shirts”
for years af-
terward.

There are
members of the
faculty who
still recall these
shirts, more
than a decade
later.

The Idaho
shirts from
the 2000
convention
were ref-
erenced in a
March 201 I report \
written by the university’s Ad Hoc
Committee for a Course on Respect and
Responsibility. According to the report,
“For a recent Mock Convention parade,
the Idaho delegation created a float with
a banner ‘I Da Ho,’ and female students
dressed as prostitutes rode on the ﬂoat.
There was also an ‘I Da Ho” T-shirt
based on this theme.’”

The inappropriateness of the t-shirts
was exacerbated by the fact that they
featured a cartoon image of a buxom
black woman in a skimpy red dress and
boots underneath the “I Da Ho" banner.

Professor Ted DeLaney ofthe W&L
History Department remembers the Ida-
ho shirts and said they “really polarized

REGISTRATION [ELROD COMMONS, LIVING ROOM]
FINANCIAL AID CONFERENCES [FINANCIAL AID, 23 UNIVERSITY PLACE]
UNIVERSITY REGISTRAR APPOINTMENTS [EARLY—FIELDING]

CAREER CONVERSATIONS: 10 THINGS EMPLOYERS ELROD COMMONS WANTS" STUDENT
TO LEARN IN COLLEGEISTACKHOUSE THEATER]

GREEK LIFE Q&A [HILLEL HOUSE, MULTIPURPOSE ROOM]

IOHNSON SCHOLARS FAMILY RECEPTION [EVANS DINING HALL]-
PRESIDENT’S OPEN HOUSE [LEE HOUSE]
SORORITY OPEN HOUSE [FRANK PARSONS WAY]
FIRST FRIDAYS AT FIVE [HILLEL HOUSE]
FOOTBALL: WASHINGTON AND LEE V. CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY [WILSON FIELD]
FAMILY WEEKEND CHORAL CONCERT [WILSON HALL]

SATURDAY, OCT. 29

 '7/' -5’/‘K7/re? 

the

students,” and

angered many

of the members

' of the faculty as

well.

The volun-

teer assistant

baseball coach

that was respon-

sible for the de-

sign and printing

of the shirts, af-

ter coming under

much ~ﬁre, resigned his po-

sition with the team, which he had held
for I0 years.

Student newspapers published after
the convention in 2000 were ﬁlled with
stories, editorial cartoons and angry
op-eds related to the Idaho t-shirts. The
Trident newspaper published a lengthy
opinion piece written by then-university
president John W. Elrod that expressed
his scorn for the shirts, calling them
“vulgar, wrong, hurtful and offensive.”

The faculty took out full-page ads in
each ofthe two student newspapers in
order to issue a statement formally con-
demning the shirts.

See "Shirts”on page number 2

Parents’ Weekend at a glance

For a complete schedule, check. out your registration materials or look online

 

1 RE. LEE RESEARCH STUDENTCPRESENTATIONS [LEYBURN LIBRARY, MAIN FLOOR]

REPORT TO PARENTS, CURRENT HAPPENINGS AT W&L [ELROD COMMONS, STACKHOUSE

THEATER]

PRESIDENT'S REPORT TO PARENTS [LEE CHAPEL]
LUNCH ON THE GREEN [CANNAN GREEN]
MEN’S AND WOMENIS SWIMMING [WARNER GYM]

A GRAND TEA [ELROD COMMONS, ROOM 114]

A CAPPELLA CONCERT [LEE CHAPEL]
OFFICE OF DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PARENTS’ DINNER [EVANS DINING HALL]

WIND ENSEMBLE CONCERT [

SUNDAY, OCT. 30  

H_ILLEL BAGEL BRUNCH [HILLEL HOUSE]

9:30AM 7 11:00AM

WILSON HALL, CONCERT HALL]

 

  

- THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011

 

‘By Neil Haggerty
STAFF'WR|TER

Washington and Lee Mock Convention has announced its

keynote speaker: retired Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour.
According to Mock Cori Speakers Chair Sorelle Peat, Barbour was

on the target list for speakers since planning for this convention started

since he has been an inﬂuential leader in the Republican Party “and «he

was a strong contender for the Republican candidate for the presiden- A

tial election in 2012 before he pulledlout of the race last April.”

“Govemor Barbour is a prominent player in the Republican Party
and his insight and experience means that he’ll be able to offer some
great advice to all of us participating in the convention, particularly
the political team, about how to achieve our goal. . .correctly choosing
the Republican presidential candidate,” said Mock Convention Com-
munication Chair Kelli Jarrell. ,

As governor of Mississippi, Barbour has focused on making the
state “a better place to live, work and play through strong support
of job creation, schools, health care, energy, safer communities and
stronger families,” according to governorbarbouncom. ‘

Barbour’s election in 2003 was one of the largest gubernatorial
turnouts in the state’s history. His popularity has increased since’.

He was re-elected governor by 58.2 percent of the vote in 2007 G

and “is only the second governor since Reconstructionto be elected
to a second consecutive term” as governor in his state, according to
govemorharbour.com. . .
During his six years as governor, Mississippi increased in per cap-
ita income by 27 percent. _ _

Barbour’s success as governor has led to him receiving several
honors and awards. According to his website, he was Governor of the
Year in 2006, he received the Gulf Guardian Award for his work with
the damages inﬂicted on the Gulf Coast in recent years and received
the Adam Smith Medal from BIPAC.

Barbour is also a leader in the Republican Party as the Chairman of
the Republican Govemor’s Association.

“This announcement brings us one step closer to the actual conven-
tion and having Governor Barbour as the keynote speaker is some-
thing that I, and the rest of the campus, can be excited about from now
until February,” said Jarrell.

MockConvention 2012 Roundup

A rundown of the latest happenings in W&L ’s largest organization

0

By.Nei| Haggerty
STA F F WRITE R

Washington and Lee Mock Convention is bringing the convention
to parents by holding a Silent Auction this Friday. Parents will be able
to attend the auction from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.in. and winners will
be announced at 1:00 p.m. on Saturday in the Outing Club Resource
Room.

According to Mock Convention Communications Chair Kelli Jar-
rell, there is great diversity in items available and in price range so “as
many parents and students as possible" will come to the auction.

ltems offered at the Silent Auction include a beach vacation in Sea
lsland, a stay in a l9th Century English Cottage, Carolina Panthers
Tickets, hotel rooms for graduation and next year’s Parents Weekend,
dinner at local restaurants, a ﬂy ﬁshing package from Trouthunter and
Fancy Dress ticket packages.

All funds raised from the auction will go towards the general ﬁnd
for the Mock Convention, said convention‘ treasurer Brandon Allred.
The general fund “is used to cover expenses for all aspects of the Con-
vention, from speakers and the parade to the Presidential Gala,” Allred
said.

While the Silent Auction is one way that W&L parents will beable
to get involved in Mock Con, they are encouraged to support the con-
vention ﬁnancially and can visit mockconvention.com for more infor-
mation on how to get involved.

“There were many Mock Con parents in attendance at the Spring
Kickoff events and we hope the Convention will be equally well at-
tended,” Jarrell said.

S h ' rts
continued from page number 1

Regional media, including The Roa-
rzoke Times and T he Daily Progress
of Charlottesville ran stories about the
Idaho shirts. DeLaney said the shirt may
have been caught by one ofthe C-SPAN
cameras that were at the convention, but
he said he could not be sure.

DeLaney said that a faculty task force
was set up in response to the t-shirt in-
cident (and several other incidents that

occurred that year) speciﬁcally to deal
with issues related to diversity on cam-
pus.

“That t-shirt helped to change
W&L,” he said.

LEARNING FROM THE PAST

Back in 2000, the university did not
reviewthe Mock Con state delegation
t-shirts before they were ordered and
printed. 11 years later, that is no longer

the case.

King said students will be notiﬁed"

via email if the designs of the t-shirts
that they ordered at the delegate fair
have changed. Students will be able to
un-order the state shirts and get their
money back if they do not like the new,
university-approved designs.

But the t-shirt money reimburse-
ment process could turn into a logistical

nightmare for those who are in charge of
it, considering the fact that over 1,600
students have already signed up to join
a state delegation.

King said that while the executive
committee may not necessarily agree
with all of the design rejections, these
vetoes are a small price to pay to up-
hold the reputation and the image ofthe
Mock Convention.

“We as an executive committee, as

a steering committee, we don’t want to '

look like any typical college organiza-
tion because we’re not,” King said.
“And if that means that the bookstore
has to ﬂag a couple of t-shirts that they
don’t think will be good for our school
image, but for our national image, then
so be it.”

._

 

 

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

I

 

opinions

  

_ A Dog Day Afternoon

Columnist Ali Greenberg describes the ins and outs of bringing a dog to school and says it 3 not for everyone

I got my dog,
Holly Golight-
ly Greenberg,
_ about 4 years
ago and my life
has never been
I the same since.
., She was a res-
 , cue -puppy, one
of ﬁve in her
litter at the shel-
 ter and the only

   

__ it   ,' one who didn’t
’ " ' bark when we

Ali G berg
EELUMEES walked by. A
beautiful roly-

poly ball of orange fur and little baby
bear paws that pounced all over. She
was, by all accounts, adorable then and a
gorgeous dog now. So while I only went
to the shelter to volunteer, I ended up
bringing her home.

But that whole no barking thing
ended pretty quickly which was a bit
of a disappointment. From the day we
brought her home I realized this was no
ordinary dog. She jumped over the dog-
gie gate or knocked it down entirely. She
had accidents so frequently it was as if
she was ruining our hardwood ﬁoorsjust
to spite us. She chewed up the comers

of the carpet, never learnt her name, and
ate long grass in order to cause a gag-
ging reaction. Yes, my dog went through
a period of bulimia.

The terrible twos came and went. She
became an ‘annoying three-year old, but

bows. Every now and then she gets into
the trash, she is even afraid of walking
down Washington Street at night, and
she must have been Green Dot trained
because she hates all boys and barks if
one gets near her. Holly is the weirdest

Dogs cost money too, and a lot of it. The bitch broke

a nail and I had to take her to the hospital...and said

goodbye to my paycheck. ‘

ﬁnally settled into what could be called
a “normal” dog. Holly was never as bad
as Marley or as loud as those yappy little
lap dogs and was ﬁnally able to hold her
bladder through the night. I had hoped it
would be the start ofa new era.

And then this summer my dad got a
job abroad, meaning that Holly, who had
stayed at home the last two years, would
now be living with me. At school.

It was a pretty big adjustment at ﬁrst,
but to be fair, it has been pretty nice to
have her around so far. My roommates
like her and luckily she doesn’t chew
our shoes. She generally just barks at the
window or sleeps.

But it is not all sunshine and rain-

and at times the most inconvenient.

Having a dog at school is difﬁcult.
I am not a morning person and making
it to my 8:30 a.m. class on a Monday
morning was hard enough without hav-
ing to get up even earlier to take my dog
on a walk. Last year I would normally
spend all day on thehill, but now I have
to make trips home in the afternoon to
feed her. When I get off of work, all I
want is to put up my feet, but there is
Holly, wanting to go out one last time
before bed. There is no longer any de-
bate about it; I am whipped.

Dogs cost money too, and a lot of it.
The bitch broke a nail and I had to take
her to the hospital. After the general

check-up, new food, nail removal and
vaccination, I picked her up and said
goodbye to my paycheck.

But having a dog at school is also
great in some regards. I know that no
matter how bad my day is, when I go
home Holly will be happy to see me. Our
morning walks on the Colonnade are
sometimes the only exercise I can ﬁt in
during my busy day and I would rather
talk aloud to my dog than just to myself,
although both are pretty sad.

Holly can be hard to care for some-
times. She isn’t a little lap dog, she is a
55-pound German Shepherd/Chow mix
that needs exercise and socialization and
training. Since I don’t have a yard to let
her out in, she requires a lot of attention.

My dog is also pretty stupid; there
really is no getting around it. But she
is beautiful and funny to observe and a
very loving creature. She knows when
she does something bad and I believe
that deep down, she earnestly tries to not
screw everything up.

But even considering how much I
love my own, I wouldn’t advise anyone
in college to get a dog. What made my
experience different was that I already
had Holly for four years before moving
her to Lexington, so she was no longer a

pup and I was already used to her behav-
iors. Too often college students do not
realize that dogs continue to be a com-
mitment after graduation, meaning that
the dogs well—being can be at risk and a
huge strain can be put on the owner.-

Yet, as stupid and difﬁcult as my dog
sometimes is, she» has taught me a lot
of valuable lessons which you can only
learn from taking care of someone other
than yourself. Most importantly; Holly
may be afraid to cross the street some-
times, but if she sees stairs, she climbs
them. It may sound silly, but that’s the
best lesson she could ever teach me.

On a complete tangent, here are three
things that are really grinding my gears
currently.

1. Taking someone’s (my) seat six
weeks into the semester.

2. Not saying hello to people on the '

hill. If you doubt that they remember
your name, just greet them with a simple
“hey.” Especially if you chatted with
them on a roof for twenty minutes at last
nights party. It’s simple kids.

3. Girls who try to rap “Super Bass.”
Either put in the time to practice like An-
nie Martin and I did or ﬁnd a new song,
you ruin it for the rest of us.

Winning Parents Weekend

Hungry for a little extra spending money? Stockton Bullitt explains how to make bank when your family visits Lex

College stu-
dents always
want to be treat-
ed like adults.
So what better
way to act like
an adult than to
manipulate your
parents? When
time comes for
the parents to
enter a retire-
ment home, do
you think that
they are going
to go willingly?
I don’t think so.
Furthermore, to make sure that parents

    

BySto-cllrton Bullitt
CDLUHHIST

don’t mistakenly give all their life sav-.

ings to charity in their will, adults need
to constantly manipulate their parents.

Therefore, Parents Weekend gives
you the perfect opportunity to work on
your manipulation skills. However, in-
stead of coercing your parents into a
retirement home or reworking their last
will and testament, you should use this
weekend to bleed. as much current and
future money from them as physically
possible. Yes, you may “love” your par-
ents, and maybe you don’t want to dry
up their bank accounts. But think about
this, if your parents use their hard earned
life savings to plan a second honeymoon,
that is money you can’t spend buying t-
shirts for Christmas Weekend or sweet
headphones from the bookstore. No,
you need money for yourself and your
friends.

So, how do you go about manipulat-
ing your parents into adding money to
your W&L account or even your bank
account? Well, you’ve come to the right
place. I happen to be an expert in tum-
ing my parents’ love and devotion into
ﬁmds for keg runs. All it takes is a little
planning before Parents Weekend. If you
think of yourself as a business, then Par-
ents Weekend is the investor day when
the outside investors get to see the fac-
tory.

Basically, this mindset means that

you should have two speciﬁc strategies
in bleeding money from your parents. .
First, you want to make your parents
want to give you money because they
think that you deserve it due to your
inherently superior character, espe-
cially relative to other siblings. Second,
you want to convince your parents that
you need money in order to survive at
a school like this. For example, if there
is any way that you can make yourself
look gaunt and malnourished, then you
should certainly do it. Parents who are
worried about the health of their child.
are much more likely to give you money,
so you can purchase those extra Sunrises
from the Co-op and smoothies from the
Hillel House.

Preparation for Parents Weekend

and not CNN. Ifyou are a southern busi-
ness major, make sure that Fox Business
is playing on your TV, and if you are a
northern business major, make sure that
CNBC is on. If you are not a C-School
major, then you should just have PBS
on your TV for safekeeping. As long as
your parents think that you watch bor-
ing television instead of FX, Bravo or
Comedy Central, then they will want to
give you more money so you can spend
more time “studying.” If you are really
gung ho about the making money off of
your parents idea, then you should pay a
friend to mess up your room while your
parents are gone. If your parents come
back after spending the day with you and
see that, through no fault of your own,
your room looks like Joplin, Missouri,

If your parents use their hard earned life savings to

plan a second honeymoon, that is money you can’t

spend buying t—shirts for Christmas Weekend or

sweet headphones from the bookstore.

must include all phases of your life. I-f
you are going to milk every dollar you
can from your parents, then they need
to see every aspect of your life. Now,
whether you portray every aspect of
your life in complete truth is up to you,
but I tend to stay away from erroneous
things like the truth. That’s why_I’m an
opinion writer.

Theﬁrst place you need to start is
your room. Your parents have not seen
your room in almost two full months, so
they don’t know what to expect when
you show it to them. Obviously the
ﬁrst thing they should see when they
open the door is a pristine room. Your
television should be playing one of four
channels. Ifyou are a politics major, you
should be playing C-SPAN at full blast.
Tell them that you have gotten really
into the “Congressional process” this
semester, and they won’t question you
for details as long as C-SPAN is playing

then they will think that you need money
for cleaning supplies because your ram-
bunctious friends and/or roommates take
advantage of your innocent cleanliness.

Next, you want to fool your parents
into thinking that you have great rela-
tionships with all the adults. First, if you
are a male and your father is coming to
Parents Weekend, make sure that you
learn the ﬁrst names and faces of every
weight trainer on campus. That way, if
you pass by one on campus, you can say
“Hey Josh,” and fool your parents into
thinking that you spend every day hitting
the weight room even though you don’t
quite know what the inside of the ath-
letic center looks like.

After that, you need to go after your
teachers. Ifthere is a week that you de-
cided to go to class, this should probably
be it. You don’t need to spend much time
actually listening to what the teachers
say, but you should probably note one

thing that was said in class. If you do
this successfully, then you can safely
complete this mad-lib when you pass by
professors on the hill with your parents:
“Hey Professor [insert professor’s name
here], I thought that [topic of class dis-
cussion] was particularly interesting this
past week. After thinking about it on my
own, I have become particularly interest-
ed in [topic of class discussion]. I even
found out that [random tidbit from Wiki-
pedia]! If you would like, I would love
to sit down and discuss [topic of class
discussion] further at your convenience.
Are you free on Monday morning at 8
am?” Keep one eye on the parents while
you are saying this; it’s pretty entertain-
ing stuff. I guarantee if you throw in the
Monday morning part, their mouths will
be open. Obviously, you won’t actually
be meeti_ng with the professor on Mon-
day morning, but by then your parents
will already have cut the check and will
be long gone from Lexington.

Finally, you want to show your par-
ents the REAL party experience. If you
are a freshman, that means you are prob-
ably spending the night explaining to
your parents why you got arrested dur-
ing O-Week. So what better way to show

‘ them how you actually got arrested than

to have them relive the experience for
themselves? If played right, this move
will get you vindication for your prior
arrest and will probably get you more
money for court fees in the long run. All
you have to do is start off by lulling your
parents into a false sense of security.
Bring them out to a party in town and get
them playing -beer pong. Parents have a
lot of pent up competitive emotion, and
therefore, they are perfect for beer pong.
Make them feel overly cool every time
they make a cup, like upperclassmen do
to freshmen. Ifthey win the game, they
will be feeling a high they have not felt
since they experimented with drugs dur-
ing their college years. By the way, you
NEVER allude to any kind ofdrug use in
any way; just because adults did it when
they were younger, you are a righteous
adolescent who would never experiment

nappy liallumeeu
from the Phi!

with marijuana or use Adderall before
starting a paper.

This is the perfect time to show your
parents how parties in Lexington actu-
ally function. Your parents will start
getting tired around lI:30, so once you
see the first yawn, you confront them. If
you feel that you haven’t milked enough
money from them yet, you can start a lit-
tle soliloquy about how interesting it is
that arrests and party crackdowns started
picking up at the end of20 I 0, which was
conveniently right around the same time
as the municipal bond market started to
collapse. Tell them how LexPo, in need
of new revenue streams, started look-
ing to W&L students to fund their ex-
pansions and pension funds. Tell them
how last year, LexPo started using noise
violations to fine parties on and near the
W&L campus, and then mention that for
some reason that habit died down a little
starting in the second semester when
Zullman’s seemed a little t_oo far away
for a party. Then, when you have their
attention, crack a beer and tell them to
“watch this.” Go out to the front porch
and get pulled away by the cops for
drunk in public or minor in possession.
Your parents will surely love to see their
child escorted from a porch through the
front lawn and onto the street for some
questioning. Make sure you tell them as
you are getting handcuffed that this is
the upperclassmen’s fault and that Lex-
Po and the school are working together
to make sure that students get home
safely. I’m sure your parents will buy it.

While there are many other things
you should do on campus during Par-
ent Weekend (the football game under
the lights, the rugby game at 1 p.m. and
plenty of stuff at the Art’s Center), I be-
lieve that you can make the most money
off of your parents by showing them
your own version of your day-to-day
life. Lastly, remember the coup de gras
on Sunday morning: waking your par-
ents up for morning mass. Your parents
are sure to put their faith in you and your
personal budget after morning mass.

also, shout out tn that sweet trash in the hauaua
eustumeguiug tn ttiuuer last night! awesome.

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

opinions

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27.2011

Diaries of a house bunn

A mansion for you and your friends with a cooking and housekeeping staff?

Warner
Huntington III
knocks on the
door. The girls
whisper and line
up: mouth spray,

 

- perfume, and
clutch ready to
go. Elle walks
down the spiral
sorority house
staircase and
gets the nod of

ByCampbeI| Burr aPPF0VaI fF0m

 

her sisters. And

off she goes, into
the night, ready for the proposal, or so
she thinks...

This is not exactly what living in the
sorority house is like. We do not have a
spiral staircase, a huge knocker or sili-
cone boobs, but Perfect Day probably
describes our lives as well as it does
the lives of the Legally Blonde sorority
girls.

Parents Weekend will be the ﬁrst time
freshmen girls can tour sorority houses
and girls, I can assure you that you will
be pleasantly surprised. Sorority houses
are fraternity houses minus the muddy
ﬂoors, faint smell of beer, loud yelling
at the television on Monday nights, and
basement bars (a little disappointing
but we’ll survive). They are sparkling
clean with ﬁreplaces, balconies, televi-
sion dens, and beautiful views of rolling
mountains and the football team on Wil-
son Field.

Here are some things to consider if
you are planning on living in a sorority
house:

, 1. Where dem boyz at? Just a wam-
ing, freshmen, enjoy your time living
and eating with the other gender-
“dorm storm” your heart out and linger
in D—hall. When sophomore year comes
along, you will no longer be living di-
rectly above or on the same ﬂoor (Davis
what whaat), as the other gender. You
will also no longer be sharing meals with
them in D-hall. .

Now some of you may be thinking: I
don’t eat with boys and I hate the smell of
dirty socks on the first and second ﬂoors
of Graham-Lees. This change won’t af-

.fect me.’Trust me~it will. If you don’t
take advantage of eating with the other
gender, enjoy watching them eat. Your

OPINIONS EDITOR

days ofmaking fun ofboys for preparing
salads without dressing or feeling self-
conscious when you go for that second
frozen yogurt cone are numbered.

It’s fun living with all of your close
girlfriends, but it’s an adjustment. You
may feel like the only time you see boys
is in class, in the lib late at night when
they tell you that you “look tired” (aka
like hell), and at parties when they’ve
scooped their glass into the grain bucket
a few too many times and are staring at
you cross—eyed and slurring their words.

2. 24-hour food supply- And I thought

D-hall was bad...but hey, D-hall isn’t
open at 2 a.m. Sorority houses have re-
frigerators and snack containers open to
residents 24 hours a day. You may think
that living in the sorority house won’t
change your eating pattern because you
keep food in your dorm room. lfthis is
the case, I have a couple questions for
you. Do you have a humongous refrig-
erator in your room? If yes, is it ﬁlled
with greasy leftovers from lunch? And
if you say, “No, but we can order from
Papa John’s,” I have something for you
to consider. Does our refrigerator lock at
2 a.m. when Papa John’s closes? Case in
point. .
On the other hand, the 24-hour kitch-
en can be valuable when you have a lot
of work and need to munch on some-
thing to keep your eyes open. The never-
ending stream of boiling water, variety
of tea packets, and dozens of cereal op-
tions will keep you awake. A good GPA
may be worth a couple of extra pounds.

3. Automatic ligh_ts- Imagine walking
into a dark room, clapping your hands,
and having all of the lights tum on one
by one. Ah, reminds me ofa scene from
The Graduate (“What do you drink?
Bourbon?). This is a beneﬁt ofliving in a
green sorority house. Sometimes I even
play Harry by waving my pencil towards
the ceiling and whispering, “Lumos.”

The downside is that when you are
sitting in one place for a long time, the
lights think that no one is there and turn
off. You wave your hands wildly through
the air, as if you’re doing the Bernie
backwards, only to ﬁnd yourself out of
the range ofthe light sensor. This means
you have to get up out of your comfort-
able position and dance in front of the
sensors....every ﬁfteen minutes. By the
end of the night, you have completed a

Wxsmacruu on LE1 Lhmasin

THE RING-TUM PHI.

dance marathon.

4. Gossip spill: Imagine a bunch of
hyenas swarming around an elephant
carcass. They pull off the meat, piece by
piece, bring it to their families and return
for more, never satisﬁed.

Then, imagine a girl with a piece of
gossip; maybe, “Kiki ran across Cadaver
Bridge topless!!!” The group of sophisti-
cated girls transform. into a pack of wild

If you are locked out of the sorority
house, you are three words: out of luck.
Not only are there rarely wanderers
coming by the houses late at night (or at
least I hope not), but also it is impossible
to wake your friends sleeping in their
third—ﬁoor rooms.

One night, I walked home with
friends from a different sorority. They
went to their house and I headed down

Your days of making fun of boys for preparing sal-

ads without dressing or feeling self—conscious when

you go for that second frozen yogurt cone are num-

bered.

 

savages, parading . around the gossip
queen and begging her for more details.
Did anyone see her? Was she drunk? Did
she do it by herself? You can trust me
I won’t tell a soul. Nibbling on every
detail, hungry for more. Then, sharing
their ﬁndings. “A soul” does not include
my roommate or that boy I like. The
animals sprint to their dens (or take the
elevator...ahem) feeding their famished
roommate information. A disaster. Infor-
mation spreads like wild ﬁre and conver-
sations result in screaming, shrieking,
jumping around, and screaming some
more. Utter chaos.

Drinks may spill over fraternity house
floors, but gossip spills everywhere in
sorority houses. Fortunately, it doesn’t
stain the furniture... only reputations!

5. Bodies with ESP- Twenty fussy,
complaining girls all week long? Thank
you, pheromones. That one week every
month when the chocolate supply is
a little thin and everyone’s a little less
friendly. Hey, at least no one’s pregnant!

6. Locked out- If you forget your
swipe card and get locked out of Gra-
ham- Lees at 2:00 in the morning, after
you’ve been out or are heading back
from the library (wink wink), chances
are that someone with a swipe card will
pass by within ﬁve minutes. Worst-case
scenario, you tap on a guy’s window and
he gets out of bed and lets you in. Or
worst, worst-case scenario, you climb
into the ﬁrst-floor boys’ bathroom win-
dow and run through to the hallway with
your eyes closed. '

the row to mine. Unfortunately, I for-
got to bring my swipe card out with me
and all of my sorority sisters were either
asleep or at Chi Psi late night. I yelled up
to my friend’s closed dorm window hop-
ing to wake her. No response.

Then, a miracle happened. A pub-
lic safety car drove by and a kind staff
member let me in. I’ve decided that
bringing my swipe card out is a better
idea than relying on miracles.

7. Study in the library- “l’ll be pro-
ductive in the sorority house tonight,
even though I haven’t the past ﬁve
nights.” No. No. No. Don’t let yourself
make this excuse; I’ve wasted too many
hours already. Even when you have the
best intentions, studying in the sorority
house tends to be unproductive, unless
you lock yourself in the window-less
chapter room which is downright scary.
Do yourself a favor and go to the library.
I can assure you that the amount of dam-
age you can do to your brain from all of
the Diet Coke fountain sodas you would
drink if you stayed at the house will be
scarier than the late-night walk home
across Cadaver Bridge.

You will also accomplish a lot more. I

How did a busy night of homework turn
into a back massage train in the sorority
house living room? Good question.

8. Get in shape- Whether it’s defend-
ing yourself from a mysterious preda-
tor/ Cadaver while walking back to the
house alone at night, or ﬁguring out how
to make it to Robinson Hall in ﬁve min-
utes, you must be in. shape to survive

%come to life’ in a sorority house

sorority house life. Another solution to .

being on time is leaving the house 15
minutes before class starts, but why put
yourself through that? The extra ten min-
utes could be spent doing valuable stuff,
like sifting through Kim Kardashian’s
wedding photos. I’d much rather take the
chance and sprint if needed.

9. The Fashion Police live with you-
If you don’t like hearing what people
think about your outﬁt, don’t live in the
sorority house. If you don’t like getting
mixed messages because half the people
think your sweater is cute and the other
half think it looks like you’re going to
a business meeting rather than a party
(thanks, betches), don’t live in the house
either.

On the bright side, having friends

who will tell you their honest opinion is .

refreshing. Thank goodness there is no
more of the freshman year “oh my gosh
datzz sooo cuteeee” nonsense when you
know you look mediocre.

' Every time you put on an outﬁt and
casually ask, “How do I look?” hoping
to hear praise and self-conﬁdence boost-
ers, you are letting your guard down to a
critical swamp of alligators ready to eat
your outﬁt alive.

Another bonus——along with the un-
limited fountain soda, unlimited food,
and unlimited distractions comes. . .un-
limited clothes! Every night on the town
begins with a treasure hunt through 19
closets to ﬁnd the perfect outﬁt. Forget
your cowgirl boots at home? Have no
fear; do you prefer brown, black, or red?
Forget your black ﬁshnets and Convers-
es at home? Well, that may be a bit more
difficult. ..

All in all, living in a sorority house
is awesome. It feels a lot homier than a
dorm building and the houses have cook-
ing and housekeeping staffs. Adjusting
to an off-campus house next year may
be difficult and moving to a studio apart-
ment after school, even more difficult. I
guess there’s only one question: how can
I apply to become a house mom?

Reﬂectionson the Real Madrid

Francesca Wilson describes how living abroad this term has changed her

MANAGING
NEWS
OPINIONS
ARTS&L|FE
SPORTS
COPY

EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR
STAFF CARTOONIST
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

EDITOR’

DIANDRA SPICAK
ELEANOR KENNEDY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
JAYNA JOHNS
DANIELLE HURLEY
HILARY CRAIG
STOCKTON BULLITT
ALI GREENBERG
NEIL HAGGERTY
RYAN JOHNSON
CYNTHIA LAM
COLLEEN MOORE,
DESSIE OTASHLIYSKA
KELLY MAE ROSS
MEGAN SHAW
ANDREA SISO
GABRIELLE TREMO
ALLIE WEISS
ANGELA WILLIAMS
FRANCESCA WILSON
JULIANNA SATTERLY
GREG USSERY
MATT GOSSETT
DAVE WILSON
DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

It was exactly a
year ago in Profes-
sor Mayock’s Espa-
; no! 220: Literatura
V Espaﬁola that I felt
this all-encompass-
ing desire to go to
Spain. We were read-
ing El Caballero de
Olmedo, a theatrical
masterpiece by Lope
de Vega and I imaged
myself spending af-
ternoons perusing the
sun-ﬁlled streets of
Madrid, surrounded
by historical, architectural and literary great-
ness. I compared this potential reality to
a third fall of rush dates and Windfall and
I thought, “I need to go, I need to get out,
now!” And that’s where it all began...

Needless to say, I became interested in the
idea of studying abroad. I spent the summer
working in Argentina, I’m in Madrid this fall
and l’ll be attending University College Lon-
don in the winter. Yes, I’m fully aware ofthe
slightly cliched Eat, Pray, Love implications,
but really, I think there is a certain brilliance
in leaving behind what is comfortable and
easy for a year and exploring the world. As
my mother has told me, “In life, it’s good to
be uncomfortable at times.” She’s right, I was
a little bit too comfortable at W&L.

Washington and Lee provides its students
with an exceptional college experience and
makes everything accessible. In fact, every-
thing is so accessible that it’s easy to only
study, sleep and eat. Everything’s right there
at your ﬁngertips. We don’t even have to
walk very much. The school has so much to
offer in terms of academics, class size and
a network of people who maintain a life-
long commitment to the community. How-
ever, the concentration of a small group of
people within an equally small geographic
area breeds a culture of strong academic and
social pressure. Reﬁecting on my past two
years at W&L, I notice two themes: socialize

   

By Francesca Wilson
CO LU M N I ST

and study. As an impressionable freshman, I
felt an overwhelming desire to be social as I
was thrown into the rush process. By soph-
omore year, as an established member of a
sorority, I became completely and unequivo-
cally obsessed with my GPA. I am by nature
an intense person but the number of sleep-
less nights I endured as a result ofmy anxiety
took a toll on my mental health. I spent all
of my free time studying or thinking about
studying.

Bearing my semi-psychotic tendencies
in mind, I encountered a bit of culture shock
when I arrived in Spain. By culture shock
I do not mean I suffered from your typi-

friends to drink casual strawberry sangria on
a Tuesday afternoon. Maybe we’ll sit there
for two hours, maybe not, but I certainly
don’t ever feel as ifl am wasting my time. I
don’t need to make excuses for enjoying my-
self. At school, whenever I take the time to sit
around with friends and chat I feel as if I’m,
somehow neglecting my studies. I always
have this feeling of overriding guilt that I’m
not studying which ultimately lodges itself
in the pit of my stomach and doesn’t subside

until my standard 2 a.m. bedtime. Let’s be se- _

rious, I a.m. is ambitious.
Recently, I was catching up with a friend
from W&L and he asked if I’ve changed dur-

I ’m learning to enjoy drinking alcohol as a cultural experi-

ence, whereas before I only viewed alcohol as a means of get-

ting drunk.

 

cal American-abroad conuridrums. I’m not
afraid of the metro. I don’t miss peanut but-
ter. And, conversing in a foreign language
doesn’t intimidate me whatsoever. What
shocked me was how much Spaniards focus
on enjoying their lives. During my time here
l’ve heard the saying “Spanish work to live
and Americans live to work.” It was not until
I came to Madrid that I realized that during
my last year of college, I lived to do work. I
maniacally worked all week and by Friday,
overcame my nerves by racing to Windfall
and hoping to forget it all. On the contrary,
in Madrid, I do not want to forget a thing.
I’m learning to enjoy drinking alcohol as a
cultural experience, whereas before I only
viewed alcohol as a means of getting drunk.
Walk around the city on any day of the
week and cafes, bars and restaurants are
ﬁlled with Madrileﬁos chatting with friends
or family whilejenjoying a beer or a glass of
wine. Although it was a bit ofa difﬁcult tran-
sition, I’m learning that I can take pleasure
in sitting outside a Cervezeria or bar with

ing my time abroad. My initial and not so
eloquent response was “Yeah, I think I’m dif-
ferent. Like, I can’t explain it, I feel really
far away from everything at school.” What I
really meant in my overly-colloquial phrase
is that for the ﬁrst time since I arrived at uni-

_ versity, I am practically free from all obliga-

tions. Even though I spend most of my time
at W&L in Leybum, I’m still constantly con-
fronted by the social dynamics of our univer-
sity. It’s exhausting. The amount of school-
work we have creates one layer of stress
and the small-school environment slaps on a
whole new level of pressure with our unique
social culture. We’re all full-time students
and full-time friends. And, quite frankly, I’m

thoroughly enjoying being a student and tak-

ing a much needed break from constant so-
cialization. I’m trying to model the relatively
care-free Spanish way of life, and little by
little or one glass of sangria by one glass of
sangria, I think I’ll get there.

 

  

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

opinions

, Searchin for Lisa Irwin .

Allie Weiss describes therecent zsappearance of] 0-month-old baby, Lisa Irwin, and the ongoing investigation

Oct. 4 might
A_ have been- any
._ other Tuesday
night for Mis-
souri residents
Deborah Brad-
ley and Jeremy
Irwin. Brad-
,- ley had put her
7 daughter, Lisa,
, to bed around
10:30 p.m., and
; then retired for
the night. Lisa’s
father, Jeremy,
had been work-
ing the late shift. He came home around
4:00 a.m., and, before going to bed, went
to kiss his daughter goodnight. He was
greeted by one of the most terrifying
sights a parent can ﬁnd: his daughter was
nowhere to be found. .
He quickly woke Bradley, assum-
ing that she had the baby. But Bradley
claimed to be just as horriﬁed as he was,
and the couple quickly called the police.
That night marked the first in a nearly
month-long search that has since take
place. Lisa, a l0-month-old baby, whose
disappearance was made even more up-
setting by the fact that she’d been sick
at the time of her abduction, has had her
picture posted across the United States.
Hundreds of law enforcement ofﬁcials
have become involved in the case. At
every new turn, America has watched as
Lisa’s story unfolds with almost Dicken-
sian drama—from the anonymous bene-
factor to the mother suspected of kidnap-
ping her own child. The FBI has gone to
extraordinary lengths to ﬁnd Lisa; even

    

Byhlliewelss
EDLUIINIST

resorting cadaver dogs and polygraph
tests. These efforts have yielded surpris-
ing results.

On Oct. 8 after the local police and
ﬁreﬁghters had conducted a thorough
search of the property, even draining the
backyard well and lowering a ﬁreman to
check for evidence at the bottom, Lisa’s
mother suggested that the FBI perform

,a polygraph test. Although such an of-

fer might lead one to believe Bradley
had nothing to hide, the results would
later indicate that Bradley would fail that
polygraph test, placing her name ﬁrmly
atop the list of suspects. Even more sus-
picious, Bradley has since changed her
story, admitting that she saw her daugh-
ter at 6:40 p.m. on October 4th, not at
10:30 as she had previously stated. The
reason for this sudden change? Bradley
was black-out drunk.

FBI Agent Al Jennerich allows that
Bradley might have failed simply be-
cause of the trauma she has been through
since Lisa’s disappearance. “It’s so emo-
tional,” Jennerich says. “It’s so traumatic
for the parents. Even if the parents were
not involved at all, they can still feel re-
sponsible....Either [she failed] because
she is guilty of lying to the relevant
questions or she is under such a traumat-
ic experience that she feels guilty for not
taking care of her child, even if she had

no direct involvement in the disappear-

ance of the child.”

Nevertheless, Ashley Irwin, Lisa’s
aunt, recently told Good Morning Amer-
ica that she had no doubt that Bradley
would soon ‘be arrested, if only because,
“they have to pin it on somebody.”

Indeed, it seems that all who learn of

the baby’s disappearance want answers.
Joe Tacopina, a prominent attorney with
ofﬁces in New York, has emerged as the
family’s new representation. He insists
that he is not working pro bono, but
rather is being compensated by someone
who wishes to remain anonymous.- The

day. Witnesses say that the police left
the house with multiple bags of potential
evidence. While Bradley and Irwin have
told the media that they are cooperating
fully with the police, the warrant indi-
cates that the couple has been less than

‘hospitable. In stating the reason for the

At every new turn, America has watched as Lisa 3

storyunfolds with almost Dickensian drama— rom

the anonymous benefactor to the mother suspected

of kidnapping her own child

price tag attached to Joe Tacopina’s ser-
vices is said to be about $750 per hour. "
Bill Stanton, a former policeman
from New York who now works as an
independent security consultant, is also
being funded by an anonymous woman.
This woman has put up a $100,000 re-
ward for the safe return of Lisa Irwin,
and, Stanton says, notes that no ques-
tions will be asked of the person who is
able to claim the reward. .
More recently, news has surfaced of
the ﬁndings of the cadaver dogs being
employed by,the FBI. The dogs were
able to positively identify the scent of
a corpse on the floor of Bradley’s bed-
room. The dogs are “specially [trained]
to recognize the scent of decaying, de-
composing human flesh. That’s what
they hit on. What the dogs are saying is
that they smelled that scent,” FBI Agent
Jeff Lanza says. A warrant allowed the
FBI to conduct a 24-hour long, aggres-
sive search of the property last Wednes-

CAREER SERVICES A
WELCOMES PARENTS
TO CAMPUS

]Ol[N Us FOR A
CONVERSATION ABOUT HW

CAREER SERVICES
PARTNERS WITH STUDENTS

CAREER CONVERSATIONS:
10 THINGS EMPLOYERS WANT
STUDENTS To LEARN IN COLLEGE

Friday, October 28, 2011

1:30 -2:30 pm

Stackhouse Theater,
Elrod Commons

Career Services

\.

 

 

__ gg ..  .  ..._ MW ‘v I
q»*"'w\..l 14;, .. -39"‘.-: t.-...jr-.-t L11:-lg r, "‘y‘

.‘_-:‘ 314;-r‘ _ ,

 

Byhndreasiso
CDLUMMIST

W‘ _V_V_, m .‘,.l_:L ‘N _
t I"! {'r,£7‘53 U'“L’"15- "-5- Lift 

search warrant, the police could be heard
saying that, “the extent of the search had
been limited in nature with [the parents’]
consent.” _

But, just when the parents begin to
appear guilty, a surveillance tape emerg-
es that could clear their names. The foot-

age is ofa man dressed in white, leaving

nearby woods at about 2:30 a.m. on Oct.
4. Mike Thompson, the most recent wit-
ness to come forward, told ABC News
that he had been on his motorcycle, on
his way home from work at about 4:00
a.m., when he saw a man carrying a
baby about three miles away from Lisa’s

home. He remembers this because, on _

a night when the temperature was just
below 45 degrees, the sight of a baby
outside with no clothes on is a startling
one. The man was about 5’7”, between
140 and I50 pounds, and was in his late
thirties. Just hours before, a couple who
lives a few houses down from the Irwin
residence witnessed a similar sight.

However, the FBI is taking this new
information with a grain of salt. First
of all, the man on the security tape has
no baby with him, and so police cannot
positively say that he was even involved
in Lisa’s disappearance. Secondly, FBI
Agent Brad Garrett believes it to be
highly improbable that the kidnapper
would stick around. The fact that the
man had only managed to move three
miles in two hours seems unlikely, and it
isn’t logical that he would have just hung
around. *

Another lead the police are exploring
is a dumpster ﬁre that took place in the
area, which has the potential to explain
the burnt clothes belonging to Lisa that
were found nearby. Bradley asserts that
her daughter was last seen wearing pur-
ple shorts and a purple tee-shirt. If the
neighboring couple who remembers see-
ing a mysterious man with a naked baby
recalls that night correctly, it is possible
that the man burned Lisa’s clothes in the
dumpster before taking her out of the
neighborhood.

For now, the search continues, seem-
ing to grow more disturbing by the day.
Anyone with information about Lisa Ir-
win’s whereabouts should call the TIPS
Hotline, at 816-474-8477. “The goal is
to ﬁnd that baby girl,” Tacopina says.
“I’m optimisticand conﬁdent at the end

‘of the day the truth will come out.”

How to breathe    

It is easy to encounter the divine  noon. Or, at. least,
that is what the ancient Greeks believed. If one seeks to

 meet with a god or goddess, it is easiest to do so when

the boundary between the worlds is banished, along
with all shadows——and that is when the sun casts its
’ light_ from the center of the sky; noontime.

My noontime was always captured by natural Ven-
- ezuela—the tenderly baked ground eliciting soﬁ blades
of baby green grass, the arms of stalks of leaves, openly
embracing the warmth of the sky, the sweet breath of
tropical ﬂowers—-vividly painting the ambience with ﬁ-
ery colors. And I began to notice how my breath stirred
the air, and how the air was stirred by others’ breaths, too.
And I came to thoroughly dissect the intricate, convolut-
ed rhythms of respiration, the interlacing reverberations

of inhale, exhale. And, through careful observation and

 
 

-
‘-.

.-f,
.~ ,,-1 v
. _.

 r’~, _. _ _
I  1 --.1»   I- .-._.

‘__.

GREGUUSSERY / staff carltéionist

examination in my noontime appointments with nature, I have discovered: we
inhale the dust of souls, eternally entwined and permanently present within the

‘ undercurrents of the airiwe breathe, pervasive and almost indistinguishable but
for the hushed constant callings of echoed longing this dust elicits, of a profound
hunger to be known, and to be connected with all other beings for all eternity.
We exhale our own dust; we expel ourselves through swirling eddies of oxygen,
our souls contributing to the resonating music of The Yeam: we, too, long to be
inhaled; we, too long to participate in this resounding gust of perennial linkage.
And the central aim of respiring? To attain the ultimate communion of souls.
And this can be accomplished solely through learning how to breathe.

 

  

 

  

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011

arts&|ife

 

Former W&L professor’s

brushes dance

I-Hsing Ju ’s personal experiences color his artwork, his traditional Chinese rice paper scrolls on display in Staniar

By Ryan Johnson
S TA F F w R IT E R

Artist and past Washington and Lee
professor I-Hsiung Ju called on personal
experience to create his Chinese scroll
paintings currently on display in the
Staniar Gallery.

The traditional Chinese brushwork
on a rice paper scrolls depicts a series of
landscapes from his native Chinese set-
ting.

His time as a Chinese soldier during
the Second Sino-Japanese War holds
particular inﬂuence on his work. The
“city of clouds” in many of his paint-

ings is the same cloud cover that hid him
from the Japanese during the war.

“Paint bamboo every
day. You will live long
and happy. ”

His hometown of Jiangyin, Jiangsu,
also appears in his paintings. He de-
scribed the town as a place where even

the painters worked in the rice paddies
during the day. The gentleness of those
particular landscapes reveals a fondness
for his birthplace.

The exhibition is aptly titled “Jour-
ney Home,” and through painting, the
artist reﬂects on various inﬂuences and
heritage in his life.

He described his brushwork as a
“dance,” something both quick and el-
egant. The paintings must be executed
quickly to give purity to the lines.

First-year Sarah Helms described his

talk as “illuminating.”

“His artwork was made more beauti-
ful by the commentary,” she said.

Ju taught at W&L for more than
twenty years and was the ﬁrst tenured
Asian professor at the university. He in-
stituted an “Art in Taiwan” program that
took art students abroad to learn Chi-
nese brushwork. Ju retired from W&L in
1989 but continued to win teaching and
art awards long after that.

Clover Archer, the director of the
Staniar Gallery, introduced Ju as some-

one who “greatly inspired countless stu-
dents.”

Ju was invited to talk at W&L this fall
by art professor Pamela Simpson, who
passed away Oct. 4. Ju honored his col-
league with a moment of silence at the
beginning of the night.

The painter’s work will be on display
through Nov. 2. As for advice to the
W&L community, Ju said “Paint bam-
boo every day. You will live long and

happy.”

Music to sing across W&L

Student musical groups to perform concerts for Parents Weekena’, music will ﬁll Wilson, Lee Chaper Fri. and Sat.

By Colleen Moore
STAFF wmren

Students in various musical groups

.have been working hard to prepare for

upcoming Parent’s Weekend concerts.
Beginning at 8 p.m. on Friday night
in Wilson Hall, members ofthe Chamber
Singers, Cantatrici and Men’s Glee Club
will sing in the Choral Concert. Conduc-
tor Shane Lynch directs each group and
has prepared a variety of works ranging
from Mendelssohn, Clausen, Stroope,

Burchard, and Thompson among many
others.

Student-run A Capella groups will
start the Saturday night music festivi-
ties in Lee Chapel at 6 p.m. Liz Bell,
advisor to the all-female group JubiLee,
said they have been practicing six songs,
which include everything from Taylor
Swift to The Supremes.

“I am so excited to ‘kill it’ and put

our best foot forward for all our friends
and families. We’ve worked so hard to
prepare for the concert and I can’t wait
to just have fun with the arrangements,”
she said.

The other A Capella groups are the
all-male Southern Comfort, advised by
Rob Mish, and co-ed General Admis-
sion, run by Jenece Upton. The co-ed
group the Washingtones will also par-

ticipate.

Later Saturday night, conductor Bar-
ry Coleman will direct his wind ensem-
ble concert at 8pm in the Wilson concert
hall. Students will play music from
around the world for friends and family.

“We’ve been really intense in re-
hearsal and singing around campus,”
Chamber Singer and JubiLee member
Katy Zazzera said. “I love our sound this

year. It’s the best of the three years I’ve
been in chamber.”

Tickets for each event are free but
need to be picked up in advance from the
Box Ofﬁce, open Monday-Friday 9 to 11
a.m. and 2 to 4 p.m., or two hours before
the performance. Call 540- 458-8000 for
tickets and information.

Learning the way of the tea

Kaiseki teachers ﬂy in from west coast to share Japanese tea and cuisine, students learn about “Chado ”

By Gabrie|leTremo
STAFF WRITER

Kaiseki teachers Larry Sokyo Tiscor-
nia and Kimika Soko Takechi ﬂew from
the west coast to Lexington, where they
used their combined 70 years of expe-
rience to share the joy of tea and Japa-
nese cuisine with Washington and Lee
students.

They gave two separate demonstra-
tions last week that focused on this tra-
ditional tea food, often showcased in the
tea ceremony of Japan.

They also discussed Chado, or “the
way of tea,” in their lecture on Wednes-
day. The Japanese treat the tea ceremo-
ny as one of the traditional arts, and it
is practiced and respected like painting,,
calligraphy, or Japanese drama.

A chaji, or formal tea, will last ap-
proximately four hours, almost like a
Western dinner party. In the course of

the chaji, a kaiseki meal is served.

Tiscomia said in his lecture, “Kaiseki
has a long history with roots in ancient
China. It was brought to Japan by Zen
monks who had gone to China to learn
other arts like ceramics and calligraphy.”

" Kaiseki consists of a rice dish, a
soup, and three small dishes all served in
individual bowls on trays.

On Friday, Tiscomia and Takechi of-
fered an interactive kaiseki workshop.
Students were taught to construct a ﬁsh
wanmono (soup course) called kuzu-
tataki. They prepared a piece of poached
white ﬁsh in a traditional Japanese dashi,
or soup stock, topped with cucumbers
and lemon rind to freshen the taste.

Slowly, the aroma of quickly poached
ﬁsh overwhelmed the static nature of
the cold fall air, and combined with the

sweet dew smell of freshly cut English
cucumbers. Citron oil wafted about the
room within the steam from the simple,
elegant broth.

“In the Kaiseki Workshop, we were
able to see the actual production of the
meal, rather than just seeing pictures of
the dishes,” said student Lauren Mosely.
“It felt like a real connection with the
Japanese culture.”

For example, the cucumber not only
adds color and ﬂavor to the dish, it is
also a Japanese symbol for the moon.

Takechi taught the students how to
prepare the intricately cut cucumbers.
First, one must carve a small circle in the
cucumbers so they don’t fall apart when
you take out the middle. Even the way
you cut the cucumber contributes to its
texture.

Each and every motion in kaiseki is
consistent with a feeling, a purpose, and
a contribution to the wholeness of the
meal.

“People are amazed
at the wonderful taste of
something so simple,”
Tiscomia said. “Kaiseki
really is simple, but it’s
all the other elements,

especially seasonality
and subtlety, that com-
plete it.”

Tiscornia was ﬁrst
introduced to Japanese
food through sushi, and
it became a great passion
for him~ leading him to
open the ﬁfth sushi res-
taurant in San Francisco

 

in 1976, despite being told that sushi
“would never be popular” in the U.S.

Wanna

know more?

visit Mr. Tiscornia’s web-
site, www.chanoyu.com.

_or-

take Professor lkeda’s in-
teractive Japanese culture
class on the Urasenke Tea

Ceremony

Hispanic heritage dinner a hit

T he food an culture of diﬂerent Spanish—speaking countries highlighted at the Marketplace last Wednesday

By Cynthia Lam
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Lively music, colorful decorations,
and mouth-watering dishes topped the
menu for the Hispanic Heritage Dinner
hosted by the dining hall staffin the Mar-
ketplace last Wednesday. The festivities
attracted many students, faculty, and lo-
cal community members to experience a
taste of Hispanic culture and embrace its
culinary diversity.

The dinner featured a variety of foods
from different Spanish-speaking coun-
tries, including lentil empanadas from
Argentina, black beans and saffron rice
from Cuba, cerviche de camerones from
Peru, and seasoned hot chocolate from
Mexico.

According to Assistant Manager
and Special Events Coordinator Kelly

Brown, the purpose of the meal was to
“create a special theme event for stu-
dents” and to Ieam more about other
cultures.

“We enjoy doing it because it gives
us a chance to do different things and be
a part of the diversity,” said Brown.

Weeks of planning and preparation
went into organizing this event. Students
from various Hispanic backgrounds and
faculty members from the Spanish de-
partment worked together with the food
services staff to develop the menu, deco-
rate the Marketplace, and promote the
dinner within the community.

The whole back-and-forth process
was very collaborative, said Brown. Stu-
dents brought in family recipes for dish-

es as well as their own decorations, and
the dining hall staff incorporated them
into the event.

“This works better for us,” said
Brown. “We prefer that we have more
student involvement, because that’s what
we’re here for: to please the students.”

First-year Soﬁ Sequeira, a native of
Costa Rica, was one of the international
students who helped plan the dinner. Af-
ter being away from home for the past
two months, she enjoyed the opportunity
to share her culture with the W&L com-
munity. '

“The purpose of the meal was 'to
show other students that we actually
have a different culture and that we have
different food and music and customs,”

said Sequeira, “When you are so in-
volved with a new culture, you kind of
forget about your own culture, so it was
nice to have the opportunity to show my
friends and people I know that this was
part of me and this is who I_am. It made
me feel proud.”

Throughout the night, students and
staff got the chance to try new foods -
such as peixe con ‘Molho de Tangerina
from Brazil (cod poached with mush-
rooms, wine, and tangerine juice) and
arroz con coco y pasas from Colombia
(rice pudding with coconut and raisins)
- many of which they had never even
heard of before.

“When I saw a lot of new foods,
I got to the point where I didn’t know

what anything was so I just wanted to
try everything,” said ﬁrst-year Rachel

Samuels. “It was very obviously differ- ‘

ent from what was normally served and
it emphasized the fact that other cultures
exist.” ,

Samuels noted the difference in taste

and texture of the food compared to the I

dishes she normally ate.

“With American food, it has one sin-
gular block of taste, but Hispanic food
seemed to have a rhythm, like the taste
would change a little bit and hit you in
different ways,” she said. “The food was
deﬁnitely an experience.”

Different medium for economic coverage

NPR is Uri Berliner advocates the use of sound, ‘saying better reactions come from radio programs or podcasts

ByMegan Shaw
STAFF WRITER

Though some assume these stories
are best for print journalism, Uri Berlin-
er,’ a deputy national editor at NPR, says
it is a goal of the organization to prove
the opposite: people respond differently
and perhaps better to the voices heard in
a radio program or a podcast.

At his lecture on Thursday night,
called Risky Business: Bankers, Gov-
ernments and Debt Bubbles, Berliner put
a fun, yet informative spin on the issues

of today’s ﬁnancial world.

Berliner, who has been'at NPR since
I999, oversees its Business and Eco-
nomic Coverage. It is important for NPR
to ﬁnd ways to excite its audience each
day, he said. '

Planet Money, a project that was cre-
ated out of the ﬁnancial crises _of 2008,
does exactly that. Berliner used several
of Planet Money’s humorous podcasts
and a witty video to essentially prove

that ﬁnancial reporting does not have to
be boring to be infomrative.

The lecture began with a discussion
of credit. Berliner said, “credit is the
most powerﬁil force in our ﬁnancial
lives.”

The psychology of borrowing, Ber-
liner explained, has its roots with Alex-
ander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson.
The American Revolution was ﬁnanced
with debt, and both Hamilton and Jeffer-

son had.positive visions concerning debt
that strengthened the United States as a
commercial power.

Berliner sped ahead in the history of
ﬁnance to the late 2000’s. He explained

the meaning of a credit bubble and that

debt can help leverage proﬁts — but that
it can, in turn, enhance losses.
In the 2008 recession, the bottom fell

out.
NPR and the producers of Planet

Money purchased a toxic asset at a dis-
counted price to help audiences under-
stand the root of the ﬁnancial crisis. Ber-
liner warned that the responsibility falls
on the shoulders of the current student
generation, and that we must continue to
remain accountable for our leaders, our
banks, and for ourselves.

Berliner was excited to announce that
Planet Money will next move into China
and begin covering their debt bubble.

 

 

‘THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011

7 if-KTHHEV Rlll\IﬂGi-iT”lJ‘ll/l PHI.-

‘~.

orts

ALEXANIIEII IVIARAGIDS

S'l‘EPllEl I PECK

‘Ii

‘"1

 

 

investments.

him a leader on and off the ﬁeld.

2010 Super Bowl victory.

among them).

going to be. .

baseball now rules him out at 30 years old.

sistency. -

I guess London is a ﬁtting place to write this piece thanks to
the recently enhanced speculation that an NFL franchise could
be across the pond in the coming decades. So for the moment,
I’ll pretend I’m starting the London Broils or Bridges or Ter-
riers or Fogs. I’ll need to handle this with care because, for
the ﬁrst time in my life, the players aren’t just players, they’re

Whom to choose to start the franchise is one of those classic
sports debate questions for a very good reason, because there is
never a clear answer. The player must possess top-level talent
but also have the combination of youth and experience to make

My NFL choice (as much as it pains me that he’s a Packer) is
Aaron Rodgers. NFL fans have witnessed a massive rise in his
talent, maturity and poise with all of these culminating in his the

With over a dozen players on IR last year, including several offensive weapons, Rodgers
sneaked The Pack into the playoffs and never looked back. On a team ﬁlled with nobodies,
Rodgers carried his team as only few players in the league can do (no, Jay Cutler, you’re not

He’s only 27, but he looks as if he has better decision making ability than his predecessor
Brett F avre, better mobility than Peyton Manning and Tom Brady and a QB rating that leads
the league by——-drum-roll please—just under 18 points. He’s about as locked in as you can be
right now, and we can only guess his conﬁdence is sky-high after last year’s performance-—
his third straight year of completing more than 63% of his passes.

If I were to write this again two years from now, Matt Stafford (or Cam Newton) might
be my picks, but they haven’t shown me enough yet. Brady would win other contests, but at
34, the twilight of his career isn’t that far away. Brees is a solid choice, but he’s already 32
and is currently at the peak of his career. We don’t know how great Aaron Rodgers is really

On the diamond, I feel that the list of candidates is deeper. Also, I feel a strange urge to
select Albert Pujols—he is 31, although I’m not sure how valid that birth certiﬁcate is. I could
be. just throwing The Machine in the conversation because he just became the ﬁrst player
since Reggie Jackson in 1977 to hit three home runs in a World Series Game.

, One of Pujols’s opponents in the World Series, Josh Hamilton, would be my hands down
choice if he were a couple years younger. Unfortunately, his infamous start in professional

So I ’m going to surprise a few people outside Southern Wisconsin and select Ryan Braun.
I ﬁrmly believe that if this guy didn’t play up North in Milwaukee, he would be a more main-
stream choice in this category. Not that this will change anytime soon, since he just signed a
5-year $105 million contract extension in April.

He’s locked in with The Brew Crew until 2020 (with a $20 million mutual option in 2021).
Since 2007, whe‘r:r_Braun,won NI. Rookie of the Year, he has produced with remarkable con-

He has hit at least 25 home runs and driven in 97 runs every year he debuted for the Brew-
ers at 24. He’s about to turn 28 in November and ( likely until next season) formed the best
young 1-2 line—up punch with Prince Fielder who turned 27 earlier this year. Besides a mon-
ster regular season at the plate, where he hit .332 with 33 HRS and 111 RBI, Braun came up
big for Milwaukee in the postseason and hit .405 in 11 games.

With Fielder likely leaving town in Free Agency this winter, the Brewers will be Braun’s
team, but I would rather have him take over mine.

   

When I sat down to write this article, I did a lot of think-
ing about what an ideal franchise player should be. I wanted
a young guy with years left to play who could hit third in my
lineup, play centerﬁeld or shortstop exceedingly well and be
an all around leader (I don’t ask for much).

I settled on Troy Tulowitzki as my initial choice. The Gold
Glove shortstop for the Rockies is only 27, averages 30 hom-

Stephen and Alex gi

If you were in charge of starting an MLB and
NFL franchise, what player you would pick
to build your team around?

Who is your ideal franchise player?

ers and 100 RBI a year, rocked a mullet brieﬂy this season and
has Katy Perry as his walkup music. What more could you
want? . ..

Then I turned on game three of the World Series and saw
Albert Pujols go 5-6 with three home runs and I changed my
mind. 

Ve YOU their takeS- I tried my best to over think this choice. I tried to ﬁnd flaws

in building a team around Pujols (He’s 31, plays first base).
But all it took was watching Albert send three missiles into the
seats at the Ballpark in Arlington tojolt me back to reality.

Pujols is clearly the best player in baseball. He has been for the past few years. And
he will continue to be for at least the next ﬁve. If I’m building a team and I can have the
undisputed best hitter in baseball as the rock in the middle of the lineup then I make that
decision every time.

Albert is a once-in-a-generation talent. He is one guy I really want to see play live before
he retires. When we are old and gray we will be telling stories about Albert Pujols to our
grandkids. Not Ryan Braun.

Braun could very well develop into a Hall of Famer. But he also might not. There is no
question with Pujols. He is a ﬁrst ballot Hall of Famer. He is a proven champion. He is a
legend. And I would much rather have the best player in baseball for ﬁve years ifI’m build-
ing a team, then a younger Tulowitzki (or Braun, or whoever else) for 10.

For my NFL franchise player, I’m going to completely ignore my previous logic. I think
most would agree that the player to build a team around in the NFL has to be a quarterback
- no other position has as much of an effect on the outcome ofa game. And ifl continued
with my rationale of taking the best player in the game, then I would be inclined _to also
take Aaron Rodgers (though Rodgers does not equal Pujols on the imaginary sliding scale
of cross-sport player comparisons in my opinion; hecompares more favorably to Robinson
Cano. If he keeps up the statistical pace for a few more years, then maybe he can enter the
Pujols zone and earn legend status).

However, there is a player in the league right now, a rookie in fact, that has completely
captured my imagination. He has a unique skill set that "I think has the ability to change the
game. And ifI’m starting an NFL team, he is the guy I am taking ﬁrst.

Forget Brady, Brees, and what’s left of Peyton Manning. Forget Adrian Peterson, Calvin
Johnson, and Michael Vick.

Give me Cam Newton. Seriously.

Maybe I’m drinking too much of the Kool-Aid. And maybe I’m putting too much stock
into his highlights. But what I see in Cam Newton is a guy who can singlehandedly impose
his will on a football game. He is 6’5”, 250 pounds and can run over and around you. He
is conﬁdent, a winner, (and as Boobie Miles’ granddad says in Friday Night Lights) “AND
HE CAN PASS!”

I’m going against a lot of what I said in my argument for Pujols, but Newton is some-
thing special, even if he is not quite a proven commodity in the NFL. He has Mike Vick’s
skill set with a bigger, more durable frame. Plus, he is only 22. He needs to improve on
decision-making, but that will come with experience. A better receiving corps would also
help. While Aaron Rodgers gets to throw to Greg Jennings, Jermichael Finley, and Donald
Driver, Cam gets to throw to Steve Smith. . .and Legadu Naanee. Ugh.

Maybe I’m crazy. Maybe I’m blinded by Cam’s brilliant smile. But maybe, just maybe,
I’m right and Cam Newton will be the next big thing. Here’s hoping he is.

. Generafs season ends with a loss

An up-cmd—d0wn season ﬁnishes on a down after back-to-back losses, keeping the team out of post-Season play

By Angela Williams
STA F F w RITE R

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey team end-
ed its season on a down note, starting with a 2-1 loss
to Roanoke College last Wednesday and ﬁnishing
with a 5-2 loss to Randolph-Macon on Saturday.

The Generals took an early lead against R-MC
when ﬁrst-year Candice Stefanic scored just 10:40
into the game, giving W&L a 1-0 advantage. How-
ever, the Yellow Jackets responded quickly, netting
four unanswered shots before time ran out for the
ﬁrst half, taking a 4-1 lead with just over two min-
utes left to play before the break.‘

W&L came out strong to score ﬁrst in the second

 

half. Junior Katelyn Daugherty took an assist from
ﬁrst-year Anna Kathryn Barnes to the goal after two
and a half minutes of play.

However, the team’s comeback attempt would
end there as R-MC found one more goal to secure
a 5-2 victory and end the General’s season with a
loss. 7

Junior goal keepers Caroline Sutherland and
Kirsten Kyne split time in the goal for W&L, with
Kyne playing the ﬁrst half and Sutherland coming
in for the second. Kyne allowed two goals while
Sutherland allowed three but saved two.

men’s soccer

The Generals took several shots at the Yellow
Jackets’ goal, as their keeper ﬁnished with six saves
for the day while only allowing two goals.

Earlier that week, Roanoke College came from
behind to pull out the win over W&L in Lexington.

Senior Lizz Dye scored the only goal of the ﬁrst
half, assisted by senior Christina Benedetti and
sophomore Taylor Zusi after a penalty comer. The
shot came just under 29 minutes into the match and
was enough to give the Generals a 1-0 lead to take
into the break.

The goal was not enough to secure a win, how-

ever. Roanoke scored twice in the second half, and
the Generals were never able to make another shot.

This loss marked the ﬁrst time since 2003 that
the Generals lost to the Maroons—W&L had won
each of the last eight contests.

With the losses, the team moved to 6-10 season
record and a 2-6 conference record, mathematically
eliminating W&L from qualifying for the ODAC
tournament and ending the team’s season.

sports update

opponent date result 9 - '- '
Bridgewater 10/17 T 1-1 20T  S 
Lynchburg 10/19 T 0‘0 ZOT opponent/event date result
Greensboro 10/22 T 9'0 ZOT
Mary Washington 10/21 W 170-92

opponent ‘ date result

9 O 0
Christopher Newport 10/22 L 3-0  S 
Liberty _ 10/08 L 4-0 '

’ opponent/ event date result
 S  Mary Washington 10/21 W 162-100
ODAC Relays 10/22 1st of 9

event date result
Guilfor O’Briant—Jensen Memorial 10/25 12th of 15

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011

ondeck

 

FRI SAT SUN MON TuEs
VS
Football Ca‘l‘°“C
7 pm
, ODAC ODAC
Men 5 Quarter- Semi-
ﬁnals ﬁnals
Soccer TBD TBA
, at
Women s Bn_d tel
Soccer 1 pm
Emory Emory
Volleyball National National
Invite Invite
Zridgewater
Riding IHSA
Invite
Cross ODAC
Champ-
COUMVY ionships
'_ _ Transyl-
Swimming Vania
11 am

 

in the numbers
102

The number ofgames the NBA has cancelled for the 2011-
2012 season so far. According to reports, the league plans to
cancel two more weeks as issues between the players and the
owners have yet to be worked out. The season was orginally
supposed to begin on Nov. 1, but with the newest delay, play

won't begin until Nov. 28 at the earliest.

26

In a 38-35 win over Navy, East Carolina quarterback Dominique
Davis completed this many consecutive passes, setting a new
NCAA record. In contrast, Navy completed two,'only two, con-

secutive passes just once for the entire game.

$40,000"

The amount of Minnesota Vikings cornerback Chris Cook's bail
following his arrest on a felony charge for allegedly strangling
his girlfriend in an incident that left her bloodied. According to
reports, Cook became upset when he found out his girlfriend
had been speaking to an ex—boyfriend. Cook has been sus-

pended indeﬁnitely by the Vikings.

6,508

W&L senior quarterback Charlie Westfal’s number of ca-
reer offensive yards, making him W&L’s a|l—time leader
in career total yards. Westfal broke the previous re-
cord, setin 1999, with 271 total yards on Saturday in a

52-42 win over Bridgewater. Of his 271 yards,/162 were

through the air, while the other 109 came on the ground.

soapbox

“To me, it's karma for all the bad stuff
they've done in the past. Their offensive

lineman hurt their own quarterback.”

-—DeuoItUonsdafensIvetacIdeNdamuI<nngSuhon Matt
Ryan’: brloflnlurysundqy. sub and anolhor Uons player
warraaotztisedoftauntingliyanwhen hewasonthoground
Inluriad, which both players havedenled.

  

“Sometimes there's some accountability
from everybody, coaches and players alike,
and sometimes it falls on as a group, all of
us. But they (his players) just, they didn't

play as well as they needed to play.”

--Nouebameheadfootballooach Brlan Kallylqysthe
b|ameforh|s,1nam's31-17 Ioestousconhlsplqyers, ,
thoudi nianyarxuethathllygaveuponthogame,
eepeclaI[ybecaueehebydldn’t.useamrumeouI3toau:arnpt
aoomoback.

 

sport

 

  

Soccerhea

W&L fell to Bridgewater but a 7-2

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDITOR

An up-and-down week for the Washington
and Lee women’s soccer teamsaw two match-
es facing conference foes. The ﬁrst ended with
a 3-0 shutout victory over Emory & Henry last
Wednesday and was followed by a 3-0 shutout‘
loss to Bridgewater College on Saturday.

The week’s results moved the team to a
12-3-2 overall record, including 7-2-2 against
ODAC competition.

Despite outshooting Bridgewater 1 1-4 in
the ﬁrst half. the Generals were unable to get
the ball past Bridgewater’s defenders. The
Eagles managed to capitalize on one of their
few attempts, scoring with an unassisted shot
16 minutes into the match and taking the 1-0
lead into halftime.

The Eagles turned around their first-half
struggles with shooting, outpacing the Gener-
als 8-3 for the ﬁnal 45 minutes. They scored
on two oftheir shots while continuing to shut
out W&L, allowing Bridgewater‘ to pull away

for the 3-0 win. :

Senior keeper Emily Leary played all 90
minutes in the net and recorded three saves.
Two Bridgewater keepers split playing time,
though their starter Cari Hensley played the
ﬁrst 85 minutes and registered all eight of the
team’s saves.

Earlier in the week facing Emory & Henry,
the Generals saw the same score at the end of
the matchmthis time, intheir favor.

First-year Holley Beasley scored two of
W&L’s three goals for the game. The first
came off an assist from classmate Katherine
Rush in the 20th minute, giving the Generals
a 1-0 edge.

Rush followed up with a goal of her own

just ﬁve minutes later, a header into the net off

a pass from Emily Scott, yet another ﬁrst-year,
increasing the lead to 2-0. The team would
take that score into the break.

For the ﬁnal score of the match, Beasley

courtesy of generalssportscorr

made an unassisted shot in the 68th minute.

The ﬁnal score does not show just how
dominating the Generals were throughout the
match. W&L outshot E&H 21-1 and held a
4-2 advantage in comer kicks.

Leary played the ﬁrst 72 minutes in the net,
recording one save, and sophomore Kingsley
Schroeder ﬁnished out the ﬁnal 18 minutes
without facing a shot.

With the win, W&L remains perfect
against the Wasps, having won all 17 meetings
between the teams.

Saturday’s loss to Bridgewater ended
W&L’s regular season, but the women will
continue to play for a conference title. The
Generals will be back on the ﬁeld this Satur-
day for the opening round ofthe ODAC tour-
nament. They will travel back to Bridgewater
for 1:00 p.m. contest.

5 straight wins for football

The Generals remain perfect in Conference play aﬂer Scoring 21 in the fourth quarter

By Dessie Otashliyska
5 TA F F w R IT E R

The’ Washington and Lee football team
pulled out a 52-42 win on Saturday against
Bridgewater thanks to 21 fourth quarter
points. The Generals improved to 7-1 for the
season and 4-0 against ODAC competition.

Offenses dominated much of the game,
racking up 1,090 yards between the teams
and 35 points in the game’s ﬁnal ten minutes.
W&L accounted for 606 of those yards.

Senior quarterback Charlie Westfal had a
hand in 271 of the Generals’ yards, enough
to make him the school’s new all-time leader
in total offense. Westfal now has 6,508 total
yards in his college career, breaking the previ-
ous recordset by Christian Batcheller in 1999.

With only two minutes left in the third
quarter, W&L took a 31-28 lead after junior
running back Brett Murray found the end zone
on a 32-yard reception. The Generals added to
that lead with 9:50 left to play when Westfal
ran in a 1-yard score to make it 38-28.

Bridgewater was not ﬁnished ﬁghting,
however, as they challenged the Generals’
lead with a 64-yard touchdown run just one
minute later. Despite this. the Eagles could
never quite regain the lead.

W&L then capped a 9-play drive, covering
73 yards, with a 8-yard» touchdown run byju-
nior running back Russell Stewart with four
and a halfminutes left in the game, extending
the score to 45-35.

The Eagles again responded quickly with
a touchdown of their own, pulling in a 21-
yard reception for a score only a minute and
a half later. ,T hat would be their last score of
the game, however, as they unsuccessfully at-
tempted an onside kick, giving W&L excellent
ﬁeld position. .

Westfal scored on a 3-yard run only four
plays later, making the score 52-42 with 2:00
left to play, essentially putting the game out of
reach for Bridgewater.

Senior linebacker John Kavanagh secured
the win by intercepting an Eagle’s pass, and
the Generals were then able to run out the
clock.

The win marked W&L footba11’s 10th-
straight ODAC victory.

Until the ﬁnal minutes of the game, neither
team led by more than a touchdown through-
out the game, and the Generals took a 24-21
lead into halftime. The Eagles took back the

 

lead only 58 seconds into the second half with
a 51-yard touchdown run, but were unable to
hold on to it in near the end of the third quar-
ter. ‘

Westfal completed 11 of his 15 passing
attempts for 162 yards and two touchdowns,
while adding 109 yards and two more touch-
downs on the ground off 16 carries. With his
performance, Westfal was named the ODAC
Offensive Player of the Week for the second
week in a row.

Murray found the end zone three times,
including two touchdown receptions and one
run, while rushing 17 times for 123 yards and
catching ﬁve passes for 74 yards. Junior run-
ning back Luke Heinsohn took 20 carries for
138 yards and one touchdown and caught two
passes for 40 yards.

On defense, senior linebacker Rob Look
and senior defensive back Jake Pelton led the
team with each recording 11 tackles.

Be sure to head out to Wilson Field on Fri-
day when the Generals host conference-foe
Catholic. Kickoff is set for 7:00 p.m.

courtesy of generalssportscom

i.

 

ds to ODACS '

-2 conference record means the Season continues

\

.15

