  

V'I:",ww _’ 3"." rvﬁ‘c‘:~..'.~*'V

‘,3. 

;J.¢+‘ >~{_u, ,.... r

There's a Crossword!   1

ARTS & LIFE / page 5

One for the books » 

Football shuts out Guilford Quakers, 63 — O,
in the biggest winsince 1922.

SPORTS/page8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 THE RING-TUM PHI.

U‘

 

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2011

to school

By Happy Carlock
STAF F WRITE R

About 800 guests travelled from
all over the country to reunite with old
classmates and cheer on the Generals.

For the past three years, Young
Alumni Weekend has brought former
students back to Washington and Lee for
the Homecoming football game and ﬁve
ten—year reunions. Executive Director
of Alumni Affairs Beau Dudley helped
developed the ﬁrst Young Alumni Week-
end in 2009. -

“This is an event that we created just
three years ago when we realized that
we were not doing right by our youngest
alumni,” Dudley said. “We asked a num-
ber of young alumni to help us design it
so it would appeal to that generation of
students.”

Originally, all alumni were invited to
Homecoming weekend, but quality and
attendance fell over the past 15 years.
The Alumni Association reorganized the
weekend in order to bring more alumni
back and improve connections with re-
cent graduates.

“What we discovered is that we were
pairing our oldest alumni ~ people who
had attended their 50th reunion — with
our most recent ﬁve graduating classes,”
Dudley said. “lt’s hard to construct a
weekend that will make both of those
groups happy, so we simply converted

Homecoming weekend into Young
Alumni Weekend.”

The Alumni Association now holds
three reunion weekends: Five Star Fes-
tival in September, Alumni Weekend in
early May, and Young Alumni Weekend
in October.

Assistant Director of Alumni Af-
fairs Jen Utterback, the mastermind be-
hind the organization of Young Alumni
Weekend, began.scheduling the week-
end a year ago.

“Once last year’s Young Alumni
Weekend ended, a day or two later I
booked all the hotels, but my conference
calls and main focus on it was over the
summer,” Utterback said. “The regis-
tration goes out in July, so pretty much
from July 1, it’s game on.”

The weekend began Friday for re-
turning alumni with registration and a
campus tour at noon, followed by class
receptions at 6:30 p.m.

“All young alumni are welcome
back, but we honor the ﬁfth and tenth re-
unions with class receptions,” Utterback
said. “At the class receptions they take
their class photos and present their class
gifts. President Ken Ruscio accepts the
checks and gives briefremarks, thanking
the class for raising the money.”

On Saturday, alumni attended a tail-

gate on the law school lawn before the
Homecoming football game, but the
main event of the weekend took place
Saturday night.

“The ﬁnal event, which is the biggest,
is the wine tasting and barbecue on the
front lawn on Saturday night from 6:30
to 9 p.m.,” Utterbacksaid. “We have a
live band, and six Virginia vineyards
that bring their wine and set up booths so
people can go around and have a taste.
We also have Virginia beer coming this
year, and W&L catering does their great

I’! IHE SIUDEHTS AID FOR IHE SIUIIEIIS SIJIEE II-‘Ii? VOLUMECXV.

Alums come h

Young Alumni Weekend brings 800 guests back

barbecue.”

About 550 alumni and their guests at-
tended‘ the wine tasting, along with the
Class of 2012. Recent graduates such
as Christine Balistreri ’ll, enjoyed re-
connecting with old friends. Balistreri
is now an admissions counselor in the
W&L Ofﬁce of Admissions.

“I’m most looking forward to ev-
eryone coming back and attending the
harvest dinner on Wednesday night (in
the Marketplace) with my housemates,”
Balistreri said. “Six of the seven Lodell

The Washington and Lee Mock
. Convention is getting ready to kick

off the new school year with the State '

Delegation Fair on Oct. 5 in Stemmons
' Plaza. Students interested in participat-
ing in the Convention must attend this
, fair in order to join a state delegation.
The fair will act as both a recruit-
ment event ‘for state chairs and an op-
portunity for students to talk to state
chairs, before deciding which delega-
~ tion to join. A
“This is the last opportunity to get
involved with the Convention, so we
would really love to see a great tum-

out,” said Mock Con Public Relations"

Chair Kelli Jarrell.

On each state or territory delega-
tion, students will have the opportunity
to design the state ﬂoat for the Mock
Convention parade, help with political

' research, help with public relations for
the state and coordinate special events
' for the delegation.

Several subcommittees will also be
recruiting students at the State Delega-
tion Fair.

Jarell said students must be aware
that outside of the Steering Commit-
tee and the Executive Committee, “no

. -student —' even current subcommittee
members — will be able to attend the
convention unless he or she_ is a mem-
ber of a state delegation,” .

There are currently ﬁve Execu-
tive Committee members, 28 Steering
Committee members and over 50 state

so forth.”

NUMBER 4

 
  

«.~..wr

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

ladies will be back.”

Balistreri said she decided to work
in the admissions ofﬁce after graduating
as a way to give back to the University
and help shape its future. She said she
believes that Young Alumni Weekend
beneﬁts the community as a whole.

“It highlights the special bond that
every graduate has to W&L,” she said.
“How many schools have as good of a
young alumni attendance as us?”

  Mock Con: Choose your state  

State Delegation Fair this Wednesday gives students the chance to choose their state for the 2012 Convention v

By Neil Haggerty
« STAFF warren

chairs involved in Mock Con this year.‘  it
According to Communications 
Kali McFarland, Mock Convention
has had “98 percent’ participation in
the past, and we want to beat that thi‘
year.” , , 1 ‘V , 
“The PR team’s goal is to see 100
percent paxticipation from the studen
body, as well as high levels of pa:- 
ticipation from Lexington community 
members,” said Jarrell. “One of the.*_.{_'
best things about Mock Convention,” 
in my opinion, is that it is oneof the, 
unique things about W&L thatvreally "f;
unites the whole student body and  _ .
compasses every aspect of student life * O
here.” i :i  
There ‘is. one ‘state chair- position a
still available for .interested students,
At 11:59 p.m. tonight, Mockrconveng
tion will be accepting applications, to .
the Iowarstate chair position that canbev *9
submitted via email to Political Chane ‘
man Zach Wilkes ’l2. , A ‘_ 
To keep track of what is goinggon
with the convention, students ‘should
“like” the Mock Convention pageion .
Facebook and follow @mockcon2l)l2 ‘
on Twitter. Other events ‘coming. up
later in the fall include a silent auetio
during Parent’s Weekend and the Pt 
dential Gala in November. i_ A 
' Said Jarrell-: “There isliterally
job for everyone to do...political aﬁ,
cionado, the party planner, the igraphic
designer, the organizer, and so on i

  
   
  
   
 
  
 

 
   

    
  
 
   

     
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
  

 

  

umvsnsrnruauny
wasnmcrou & us: uurvsnsny
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2011

°°T 04 2011

n  

 

Task force to review resi

President Ruscio is charge leads to review of all aspects of residential life at Washington and Lee

By Drew Carlos
5 TA F F w R IT E R

President Ken Ruscio has decided to
take action towards improving residen-
tial life at Washington and Lee. A resi-
dential life task force will be reviewing
all elements of residential life this fall.

Dean of Students Sidney Evans said
this type of review is “something that
universities do periodically because you
want your residence halls to have the
amenities and the programming that stu-
dents expect.”

Evans said the task force is to “look at
residence life all across the board: facili-
ties, programming, ﬁrst-year, and upper-
class.”

The task force’s ﬁrst objective, as
stated by their plan found on the W&L
website is to “clarify and reﬁne the plan
for ﬁrst year residential life students.”

Next, as stated in the plan, the task
force will “analyze the current living
patterns of sophomores, juniors, and

seniors, including data on where they
live.”

Greek housing also falls into this cat-
egory. Evans said that it is an “important
part of the community,” but that “we
don’t have any preconceived notions as
to how it is going to ﬁt in. We want to
make sure we are providing opportuni-
ties and options for all of our students,
Greek and non-Greek."

After reviewing everything and col-

lecting all of the data, the task force
will then submit their recommendations
to the president to be reviewed by the
Board of Trustees.

While all ofthese tasks are important
to the future aspects ofimproving social
and residential life, the options for im-
provement must always be reasonable
ﬁnancially. Whenever one decides to
go about renovation it is going to cost
money, and there are limits to what can

dential life

be done.

Although it’s still early in the pro-
cess, Dean Evans said a preliminary re-
port will be ready for consideration by
the end of the academic year.

Said Evans: “We are trying to look
at ﬁrst-year housing ﬁrst...you want to
make sure the housing is safe. You want
to make sure that the housing supports
our programming efforts. You want to
have housing that students like.”

Fighting for cancelled classes

Law student is petition calls for a day 0]?’ of school in observance of Marti

By Kelsy McCraw
C o P Y E D ITO R
A petition is circulating among law
students for Washington and Lee ‘Uni-
versity to even more formally recognize
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day.

The petition, crafted by David

I Knoespel ‘ 14L, requests that W&L can-

cel classes every third Monday of Janu-

, ary to “honor the principles that Dr. King

championed.”

' “Ceasing classes on MLK Day
would give us a formal occasion to think
about what MLK’s policies mean to us
as a community, (and as) individuals,”
Knoespel wrote on the petition. “While
some would surely use the day for other
purposes, others could use it for discus-
sion, self-reﬁection, or mere apprecia-
tion of how far we have come and how
far we still need to go.”

Knoespel said he created the petition
on change.org, an online petition plat-
form, after law school orientation, dur-
ing which he and his fellow I-L students
learned they would not get the national
holiday off. Knoespel started the petition
as a means to instigate discussion about
the issue. '

“It’s a very personal issue to a lot of
people, not just important to the students
of color, and I think that Martin Luther
King is the type of person we really
should celebrate here at Washington and
Lee,” he said in an interview. “He was a
public servant who stood for honor and
died forjustice.”

Since its creation about three weeks
ago, the petition has garnered over 124
signatures. Knoespel says that even more
law students and faculty have expressed
their support for it, though they declined
to put their name on an ofﬁcial petition.

One signee, identiﬁed as Koral Fus-
selman ‘IZL, wrote on the petition’s
webpage, “Not only is it offensive that
we don’t honor or celebrate this man and
his accomplishments, it is APPALLING
that we celebrate Robert E. Lee’s birth-

Dove ‘real woman’to talk

Famous billboard subjects coming to Washington and Lee to talk about body image

By Leigh Dannhauser
STA F F wmre R

Stacy Nadeau, a member of the
Dove’s Real Women advertisement
campaign, is coming to Washington and
Lee to speak about the messages that
young women receive about body im-
age.

On her page on the website Cam-
pusSpeak, Nadeau said the number of
women who like the way they look is
very low. .

“A Harvard study revealed that only
2-percent of American women felt com-
fortable calling themselves beautiful,”
Nadeau said.

In 2005, Dove began using their ad-
vertisements in an effort to change those
kind of-statistics. They use “real women
with real curves” to change people’s
views on beauty. ‘

Dove’s mission is “to make more

day [three days before]. The contrast
could not be more striking. I am morti-
ﬁed yearly when I explain to friends and
family throughout the country how W&L
conducts itself at this time of year...”
Knoespel, who is from Charlotte,
N.C. and received his undergraduate
degree from the University of North
Carolina in Chapel Hill, agreed that not

cally targeting the law school, citing that
W&L, Liberty University, and the Uni-
versity of Richmond are the only law
schools between D.C. and Texas that do
not cancel classes on the holiday.
Associate Dean of Students Tamara
Futrell organizes the undergraduate cel-
ebration of MLK, Jr. Day. She said the
law school tried an adjusted class sched-

Ceasing classes on MLK Day would give us afor-

mal occasion to think about what MLK 3 policies

mean to us as a community, (and as) individuals

DAVID KNOESPEL, ’l4L

ceasing classes on MLK, Jr. Day might
portray the University in an unintention-
ally negative way.

“My friends and family (outside of
W&L) are shocked when they hear we
don’t get classes off. Their jaws drop,”
he said. “The school certainly isn’t tum-
ing a blind eye to the issue, but I think
it might be hurting itself in its efforts to
attract diverse teachers and students.”

Currently, W&L celebrates MLK,
Jr. Day with a keynote address on the
night of the holiday, a community ser-
vice project, and a birthday party in El-
rod Commons for the children of Rock-
bridge County.

Last year, the former UN ambassa-
dor and personal friend of King, Andrew
Young was the keynote speaker.

The University maintains a normal
class schedule on the holiday.

Of Forbe’s 2011 Top 50 American
Colleges, of which W&L is ranked 25th,
only six other schools do not suspend or
cancel classes for MLK, Jr. Day. Many
of the Top 50 schools do not start their
spring semesters until after the holiday.

Knoespel started the petition speciﬁ-

women feel beautiful every day by wid-
ening the stereotypical theme of beauty
and by inspiring women to take great
care ofthemselves”.

Nadeau’s speech, titled “Embracing
Real Beauty,” will be about Nadeau’s
experiences in the campaign rather than
about eating disorders.

Teri Cugliari, associate director of
student activities and greek life, is ex-
cited for Nadeau’s appearance.

“[It is going to be] really good to
bring a normal looking person who’s
never had an eating disorder and talk
about her experience” says Cugliari.

ule to accommodate MLK, Jr. Day pro-
grams, but that low attendance prompted
the law faculty to reinstate a full day of
classes. Her main concern is that stu-
dents would not use a day off from class-
es for MLK, Jr. Day appropriately.

“Before we can move to more dras-
tic measures, students need to show that
they appreciate the programming that is
already available to them,” she said.

Futrell said current undergraduate
programming has low student atten-
dance, and that faculty and members of
the Lexington community constitute the
vast majority of the participants.

“Unless it can be a productive day,
the students will not beneﬁt from a day
off from classes,” she said.

In an email, Interim Provost Roger
Strong explained that not. cancelling
classes on MLK, Jr. Day equals how the
University handles other national holi-
days.

“We do not cancel classes for Martin
Luther King, Jr. Day. But we do not can-
cel classes for other national holidays,”
he said. “We do orientation and academ-
ic advising on Labor Day. We have class

on President’s Day unless it falls during
our regularly sche_duled [Washington]
break. There are other national holidays
on which we hold classes: Columbus
Day and Veterans Day immediately
come to mind.”

MLK, Jr. Day, which falls on January
16 in 2012, became an ofﬁcial national
holiday when Ronald Reagan signed it
into law in 1983, after King’s assassina-
tion in I968.

The state of Virginia ﬁrst incorpo-
rated it with Lee-Jackson Day to create
Lee-Jackson-King Day because of the
proximity ofthe three ﬁgures’ birthdays,
January I9, 21, and 15, respectively.

However, in 2000, the state legisla-
ture separated the two days because of
the incongruent messages between Lee-
Jackson Day and MLK, Jr. Day~the
celebration of two prominent Confeder-
ate generals, Robert E. Lee and Stone-
wall Jackson, and the celebration of a
prominent national ﬁgure in the Civil
Rights Movement ofthe ’60s who advo-
cated for equal legal and social rights for
all human beings.

Lee-Jackson Day falls on the second
Friday ofJanuary, just three days before
MLK, Jr. Day. The holiday will be cel-
ebrated on January 13 in 2012.

Virginia is the only state to recognize
Lee-Jackson Day as a state holiday.

In the past, the University has imple-
mented an adjusted class schedule for
the celebration of Founder’s Day every
January I9. The revised schedule ac-
commodates a mid-day convocation to
induct new members to Omicron Delta
Kappa, the National Leadership Honor
Society founded at W&L in 1914. The
convocation also spotlights a distin-
guished speaker on some aspect of the
University’s history. -»

Strong says that, while Lee was th
subject of last year’s speech, the topics
vary from year to year. He says that this

Is your club or

organization hold
a meetmzq? ,
g_DijnaiI.wIu.

kennedye1
edu to_get a

f.
Ring-Tum Phi

E-malirlig

rie p The

n Luther King, Jr. Day

year’s speaker will be the author of a
new biography of George Washington,
the University’s other namesake.

The Stonewall Brigade Camp of the
city of Lexington, a fraternal organiza-
tion of male descendants of Confederate
soldiers, organizes the events honoring

_Lee-Jackson Day, including a memo-

rial service in honor Lee and Jackson,
who spent much of their post-war efforts
shaping W&L and Virginia Military In-
stitute, in Lee Chapel.

The celebrations of Lee-Jackson Day
are not afﬁliated with the University.
W&L allows for the use of Lee Chapel
for non-University functions when the
use does not compromise the site’s func-
tion as a University venue and public
museum, does not endanger the facilities
or exhibits and is consistent with good
community relations.

Still, Knoespel explained that Lee-
Jackson Day is an important part of the
history of Washington and Lee, and that
the two men stood for more than just the
Confederacy.

“I don‘t think the two days are so
diametrically opposed as all three men
stood for integrity and honor,” he said.
“I just think they should be celebrated on
the same scale.”

The faculty votes every year on the
academic calendar. If classes were dis-
missed for MLK, Jr. Day, they would
have to be made up somewhere else on
the calendar, though Knoespel has spo-
ken with a few school administrators
to propose an adjusted law school class
schedule on the day, or making up the
day by starting classes a day early or
dropping one exam day.

“I’m not intent on losing valuable
class time,” he said. “But the symbolic
value of the day is so much greater in
comparison.”

  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

PHOTO COURTESY OF GOOGLE

  

  

   

ii‘

 
 

 

 

  

to

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 3,2011

3 - THE RING‘-TUM PHI ~

 

opinions

 

  

In defense of resident advisers

Resident Advisor Stephanie Krasnov asks students to stop blaming their RAs and take responsibility for themselves

People of-
ten ask me why
I wanted to
be a Resident
Advisor. My
sarcastic retort
is simple: the
D-Hall frozen
yogurt. But
the true reason
is because my
freshman year
I r‘ was one of the

B Stephanie Krasnov best Years Of
COLUMNIST my. life and I
attribute that

partly to my RA.

Yes, I may have also had some awe-
some hall mates and been on the ﬁrst
co-ed hall in the school’s history, but my
ﬁrst year as a W&L student would not
have been quite as enjoyable if it weren’t
for my. RA. It is my goal to offer the

freshmen on my hall thatsame experi-
ence.

So when I hear that people are equat-
ing the RA staff to the “Lex-Po,” and that
we are being harassed at parties, I take it
personally. Our job here at W&L is not
to bust you guys or have you talk to the
Deans. Believe me, we have better things
to do with our time. Contrary to popular
belief, we are actually normal students
here, and surprise, surprise,.we go out to
parties too!

I’m sorry that if we walk by your
door at I a.m. and see a case of Natty
and SKYY Vodka on your dresser, we
are going to write you up. Just like in the
real world, there are rules that must be
followed and the handbook does a pretty
goodjob of outlining them.

I’m also sorry if you are blaring Mi-
chael Buble from your room in GL and
we kindly ask you to turn it down be-
cause people can hear it all the way in

Davis; some students here actually need
to sleep for their tests.

The RA reputation on campus is
formed in the same way that party gos-
sip is spread: you only hear the worst
or mostshocking stories from the night
before. I have never heard anyone in
the omelet line on Sunday whispering
about how their RA helped walk them

in their room because they know it was
dumb for them to buy liquor in the ﬁrst
place. It still bafﬂes me that freshmen
will go out of their way to obtain alcohol
when they could more easily walk to the
nearest frat house and have all the drinks
they want. =

I was blessed this year with a surpris-
ingly tame hall, whose loudest moments

I have never heard anyone in the omelet line on

Sunday whispering about how their RA helped walk
them home from Old House

home from Old House, or how they are I

so thankful that their RA took them to
the health center when they were puk-
ing their brains out in the toilet. You also
never hear them gossiping about how
much they are sorry for having alcohol

are when they are trying to kill the cock-
roaches they ﬁnd in the rooms. I have not
had to write any of my residents up or
even tell them to quiet down (knock on
wood), and I personally look at them as
my friends, rather than 18 and 19-year-

old kids I am supposed to keep out of
trouble. From what I have seen, they
are always smiling; except for when they
return from calc class, but that’s under-
standable.

At some point in time, we were all
ﬁrst years just like you are now, and so
we understand how much fun running
through the dorms at 3 a.m. is, and yes,
we like to order Domino’s after a party
too. But just be mindful of the few rules
we have, because the night you decide
to stay in and study, you will appreciate
it when we ask your hall mates to quiet
down.

So next time you hear someone com-
plaining about how they got a strike/inci-
dent, don’t jump in and continue to bash
the RAs. Maybe ask them exactly why
they got in trouble; their response will
probably explain it all.

Dealing with a date-snatcher

How do you react when you ﬁnd your date dancing with your best friend? Zuroski and Rooney oﬂer their expertise

So it’s that
magical time
of year again,
the time when
W&L students
break out
some cock-
tail dresses,
navy blazers,
and bowties
and pretend
they are classy
real people
in the outside
world— it’s
homecoming.
After you have
spent an hour at the “cocktail party”
watching dates awkwardly interact, you
start to hear the band wamiing up for
their Motown numbers. Obviously, it’s
time to make your way down to the tent
to prepare for a long night of thinking

 

u

is ' ‘

By Bella Zuroski and
Bridget Rooney

CO LU M N ISTS

 

Straight but not

you are an amazing swing-dancer. Af-
ter the band plays “September,” a rogue
swing-dancer crashes into you and you
lose the contents of your classy red solo
cup from the “cocktail party,” possibly
on the girl next to you. Beware of this,
people get aggressive when spilled on —
she might even comment that if you spill
on her again, “she will kick you in the
face” (shout out to the girl who said that
this weekend). You start to make your
way to the mountain of Natty Light boxes
in the back of the tent (this is obviously
not a cocktail party anymore, people) so
that you can have more liquid to spill on
those around you. After you have wres-
tled your way back to where your friends
are camped out on the dance floor (in
front of the band, obviously), you ﬁnally
ﬁnd your date...dancing with your best
friend. This is where this week’s video,
“Jackie and Debra,” by John Roberts,
comes into play.

IIBITOW

We have all
heard it said be-
fore. “Stop be-
ing such a fag”,
“Spanish class is
so gay”, “Don’t
stay in tonight

' you homo.”
_ Normal,
right? Not re-
_ ally.
at It sounds ri-
diculous when

 

By All reenberg
CO LU M N I ST

written down on
paper, yet many
consider this perfectly acceptable dia-
logue. Can young adults not realize the
absurdity of their language choices, let
alone the offense it can bring?

We often don’t think about our word
choices, calling things “retarded” or
“stupid” on a regular basis, because
who are we hurting? But the fact of the
matter is, those words are hurtful, and
are often interchanged, along with other
negative terms, for the word “gay.”

For the record, “Gay” does not mean
stupid. It does not mean dumb, lame,
ugly, boring, annoying or frustrating.
Just like “straight” does not mean smart,
pretty, cool or important. Gay means
gay, and that’s just ﬁne.

It is odd how a word which origi-
nated with such positive connotations:
lighthearted, carefree and brilliant, has
been turned into a word that is used to"
attribute negative characteristics to a
person or a thing.

Calling someone a “faggot”, which
pains me to even write in this article, is
wrong. It is the equivalent to calling a
black person the n-word, a Hispanic a
“spick” or a Jew a “kike” among many
other disgusting phrases for every eth-
nicity, religion and culture.

Most people would never even think
to use the last three words, yet the term
“faggot” has entered into mainstream
English, unacceptably accepted as part
of our language.

I am straight, so since I am not a
member of the LGBT community, I do
not really know what it is like for those
who are members on this campus. I do

, Ali Greenberg advises students to choose their words carefully

not know what they go through, or what
their experiences were growing up, so I
cannot speak for them.

But as an outsider, I wouldn’t call
W&L as a whole an extremely welcom-
ing community for LGBT students, al-
though I will give credit where credit is
due and say that I expected a lot worse
from such a conservative and southern
school. Again though, I have no person-
al experience to go off’of.

Whatl do know is that in the last few
years, suicides by LGBT youth have
been in the headlines nationwide. LGBT
youth are twice as likely as straight
youth to be victims of bullying at school
and four times more likely than straight
youth to attempt suicide.

Yet, in a time when we are making
more strides than ever in the accep-
tance of the LGBT community (repeal
of DADT, Gay marriage legalization in
many states, LADY GAGA), it is sad to
know that the LGBT youth are continu-
ously subjected to teasing and bullying
in American schools.

The “It Gets Better” project was
founded a few years ago as a means to
show all gay youth that while coming to
terms with who they are might be hard,
and coming out harder, it will get bet-
ter. Actors, athletes and musicians have
come together in support of the project
to record videos proclaiming the ‘‘It gets
better” message. '

Now many activists are asking for a

/‘ formal anti-bullying law, something that

would make it a criminal offense. While
I wouldn’t say bullying is an issue on
campus, it would be difﬁcult to say that
prejudices don’t come into play at times.
While we do not have anyone taking
ﬁrst-years lunch money in D-Hall, some
fraternities and sororities may discrimi-
nate against openly gay students by not
giving them bids or taking the chance to
get to know them as individuals.

I ﬁnd issue with the use of the term
“gay” as a deﬁnition of a person. While
it is obviously part of who they are, it is
an identiﬁer and not necessarily a deﬁn-
ing characteristic, and especially not the
deﬁning characteristic. A lawyer who
happens to be gay is not suddenly a “gay

_ son regardless of whether it started at

Jackie and Debra are besties who
are having a little trouble in paradise.
Debra demonstrates some interesting
techniques for hashing out this misun-
derstanding over what really happened
on the ski trip with Robbie Blackner (she
only had halfa sip ofa wine cooler peo-
plel). This video offers its viewers some

options as to how to handle this home-

coming drama.

I. Passive aggressively ignore. When
going with this option, you have to be
the friend who cares less. If you make
it look like you are having a better time
than your date-snatching friend, then you
obviously win. Later in the night when
she calls you and asks you to meet her
at the Traveller stop, you can ignore her
calls. “Oh look, it’s my ex-best friend

calling for the eighteen hun-
dredth time. I am not talking to you, but
I will text you and let you know that I am

lawyer,” they are just a lawyer.

There needs to be respect for every
individual regardless of their skin col-
or, sexual orientation, level of educa-
tion, religion or country of origin, just
to name a few.

Gay is not a lifestyle choice. It just
is. It just exists and is part of the per-

birth or developed later on in life. No
one wakes up one day and says, “Hello
Tuesday, it’s 85 and sunny, sounds like
a great day to be attracted to the same
sex!” Just like straight people don’t
make active decisions every week to
still be straight.

There should no longer be any de-
bate over whether being gay is right or
wrong. America needs to just let it be.
Let us all be with whomever we want
to be with as long as it is two consen-
sual adult humans.

And to quickly touch on the topic
of gay marriage, they should have every
right to get married and subsequently di-
vorced as any other American. Remem-
ber when interracial marriage was ille-
gal, before I967? That is how we will
look back on the gay marriage debate in
20 years. Complete and utter absurdity
and unconstitutional discrimination.

My message is this; think about
what you say, the words you use, and
how you treat others. Sexual orientation
does not deﬁne a person’s character, and
when you use the word “gay” with a
negative connotation in regards to your
homework, you may unintentionally be
offending those who are gay, or have
gay family or friends. There are more of
us around than you think.

  

not talking to you.”

2. Being overly-aggressive. This is
the opposite of our ﬁrst strategy. In this
situation, you act like your ﬁght is go-
ing to spark World War III and if it’s not
resolved before the band plays Cee Lo
Green’s classic “F *** You,” then the
world as we know it will end. When us-
ing this technique, Debra teaches us that
the best approach is to simply scream
your friend’s name over and over, getting
louder each time until they are forced to
acknowledge the fact that you are hov-
ering behind her and your date. At this
point, you grab her hand and pull her into
the nearest bathroom, where you overan-
alyze everything that has happened dur-
ing the night and what it means for your
friendship. By the end, things will have
gotten much worse or you will both be
crying and telling each other how much
you love each other as someone is vom-
iting in the stall next to you (remember,

this is a classy weekend).

3. One strategy that Debra fails to
mention, but is deﬁnitely a viable option
for W&L students, is to get over it and
ﬁnd someone else with whom to “swing
dance” (aka ﬂail your limbs drunkenly).
This is Red Square, people — you are
required to have a good time. So ﬁnd
another one of your friend’s dates (pref-
erably your date-snatching bestie’s) and
start the cycle over again.

*Note to the readers. Jackie and
Debra are an example of frenemies.
Real friends don’t steal each other ’s
dates... at least not without asking. And
they deﬁnitely don ’t get in ﬁghts over this
kind of stuff in the middle of a band party
where you are supposed to be dancing.
However, if by chance this situation
does arise, take some advice from Debra
in the area of conﬂict resolution. She
knows whats up.

Autumnal Reﬂections

Wantto get involved ‘>

GLDTQ Resources on campus ‘

New GLISTQ Resource Center
locatecl in the Hill House, lag
the Gaines Parking Lot.

GLIST

Contact bareno

Equalitg Initiative,
l§@maH.

wlu.e<:lu‘ to be aclcled
to the mailing list.

GLBTQ Peer Counselors and
Support GrouP,more

information

on the

Counseling Center website.

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

opinions

First—Year Homecoming Impressions

MON DAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

   
ﬁt. V ..|

‘Ad’

 

Opinions editor Campbell Burr asks ﬁrst-year-students for a short and sweet description of their weekends

Freshman year homecoming week-
end is one of my best memories. I surfed
from cocktail party to cocktail party,
admiring the wide assortment of drink
optionsand bar snacks. The band par-
ties were a dream come true for a girl

who was raised off of disco music and
taught to swing dance with the same se-
riousness she was taught to read. I was
pleasantly surprised to ﬁnd that strong
dancing abilities seem to be an admis-
sion requirement for male students.

The only rough point of my fresh-
man homecoming weekend was when
my left heel became stuck in the strap
of my right shoe and I fell straight onto
my stomach in the middle of a fraternity

seconds, I lay in a puddle of beer, trying
to disentangle my shoes. When I ﬁnally
succeeded and got up, I saw alot of con-
cemed faces. Minus a little embarrass-
ment, a huge bruise on my knee, and a

some!

Take a look at what this year’s fresh-
men are saying about their experiences!

cocktail party. For what seemed like 30 week-long limp, the weekend was awe-

Brandon Taylor
Dinwiddie, VA

  
  

Lindsay Reese
Wilmington, DE

     
       
 

   

                      

u:IoO.Ihf¢€.O':Words to describe the weekend W e n d i B e t t i n ‘Three words to describe the weekend
rOVO'FUV"r awesome, t°°*5h°’t O g Classy, Busy, Memorable
.- I  .. Rome,GA V V
4::  I _ 1 _ I I p -395‘ '.“°'"°'7‘t Best moment
  =_P",‘y”’.9»’O"o the 90”’? ‘'”d. the I‘u’f“-”P“’0.’ Three words to describe-the weekend _ 5<?€l"9 h0W 900d GV9’)/0”? /'5 at dancing -
.;fl'iecorubow tie‘; I » V « Amazing, Tmng, Rage, ‘ ‘ I . . in Red Square!
_: iuuuvthe Way   V o J  A I u L . V Best mom no Favorite Song .
 V celebrity drueamuduate . u Dancing L /Want You Back -Jackson5 V o
;— . .Zqe‘5aIdana ' , , 7 « . Celebrity dream date
. _ Tie or bow tie. - Vince Vaughn
Bow tie V - _ I . O
V S u _ _ Celebrity dream date
 O A O’ I O O .§ Ryan Reynolds
Will McLendon  I V
Marietta, GA ‘
 ,V_ . Stuart Lot‘z

{Three words to describe the weekeVnd T A. V A V . Pittsburgh, PA

 gr Or; I, 'dFO  r" L  - - - , I I .

V , -ll"g ma '5‘? G" V “”::‘i'.5o.’;‘-huooiuitie Song Eiclhlmzogdbvﬁ t h C h r ' 5 t ' a n Three words to describe the weekend

..    Let‘?Getfltlon”-Marvin.Gaye , . A9°°‘”’"’e

I“-nosor bow tie, ‘V ’  '1 _ _ Three words to describe the weekend ‘ Best moment I

 _ -I : L V o A Fun newexpeu-once u I V =   ’ , o CookoutattheCabins

 ' r C 1 ob . ' d I d t u _ Best moment Song you wish the band haclplay'ed .

Te E;ut:ta;.:::'rtn:af1 Going to the band party with my friends * "uptown 45,‘,-/" _Bi[[yjoe/
‘1 X ‘E _ ‘ - ‘ Idourdates - - 
- I — F!’|d3Y 0'' Saturday? a" , _ I Celebrity dream date
Friday night because I had no idea what to expect . Rachel McAdams
and everything was new . ‘M.  V ‘ - ' O ‘
Celebrity dream date ‘ . ¥
Blake Shelton

S a r a h W h e I i
Washington D. C.

han

      

Hannah Fiske
$imsbury,CT

 
      

O=il'hree‘wordsOtodescribetheweekend

    

H a m l e t F O I‘ if Three words to describe the weeken

  
     

 

      

   

  
 
    

 

 

 

’ ,OUCh; my head  Hartsville, SC ._Too much fun ‘ I’.
  ;  Bestmoment I  ~ Son ‘ h E I
.  V o   V . . . gyou wis the bandh dplayed
   furl .q”°'°"l"d O1:"Tel‘:°r.:l.s t°Fdesmbe “‘°.‘"°°"°““ R "Wagon WheeI”-Old CrowMedicine Show’
’FaV9"ite 59O"9  A 000' XCI mg’ un Tie or bow tie’
'1-?'Don‘ist‘op Belie  . . t - B°‘““°'“e'“ - '
   V E   -.,.«._:..  . ThebandpartyatRedSquare _B°Wt’e _ .
’ ‘     -I dream date . . Celebrit dream date
Y
: : I . Tie or bowtie? . I
. - Anderson Cooper , _ . Wayde Marsh
. M 5 . -Bow tie, obviously. Both nights. A
. Celebrity dream date /
I Carrie Underwood
W.lc‘ii-Dl2TD6I.tll2I1£ElJi?hE5lT‘I'
THE RING -TUM PHI. .
O u 1 u }l MATTHEW GossETT / business manager .
 ‘ J“ 6  
MANAGING EDITOR DIANDRA SPICAK  6  0
NEWS EDITOR ELEANOR KENNEDY 
OPINIONS EDITOR STOCKTON BULLITT  C] ® 
ARTS&LIFE EDITOR HOLLY SUTHERS '47,.  V 372663 ugcil’
SPORTS EDITOR JAYNA JOHNS What kind ofproducts do you: What’s yourideal time span between “Inception”
COPY EDITOR KELSY MCCRAW Pantene fIowV ﬂow cuts? What’s your ﬂow’s theme song?
STAFF WRITERS HAPPY CARLOCK How much time do yous end re in Zmonths “Highway to the Danger Zone”
P P DP 3 V

DREW CARLOS your ﬂow every day? Ifyour ﬂow had to describe itselfin one -Kenny Loggins

KELSEY COTTER lt’s an all-day affair word... How much money would it take to
LEIGH DANNHAUSER At what age did you begin to realize Exhilarating lose your ﬂow for good?

ALI GREENBERG your ﬂow’s potential? What’s your ﬂow’s greatest inspiration? Outofthe question

NEIL HAGGERTY Whilelwas stillin the womb Ronald Reagan Describe the feeling you have when

5T E P H A N I E K R A 5 N 0V What’s the best complement someone’s Ifa movie was made centered on your you rub your hand through the how
CYNTHIA LAM given you on your ﬂow? ﬂow, what would it be called? Ecstas 
ALEXANDER MARAGO5 Someoneaskedmeiflplayedcollegelacrosse O It’s already been made, it’s called y

STEPHEN PECK

BRIDGET ROONEY  -T
ANDREA SISO

SAGE UM  SENIORS!

ANGELA WILLIAMS ‘A ‘,lV.,_ :~”,;._.M.1'.,_V.  .. U

    A -'~ ~I I CHECKTHIS OUT!

DESIGN EDITOR JULIANNA SATTERLY
BUSINESS MANAGERS MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON COMPLIMENTARY LUNCH SELECTIIVELIBERAIL
DISTRIBLITION STAFF DILLON MYERS ' ARTS CONSORTIUM{SLAC)

BRIAN SIMPSON WITH ALUMNI-IN-RESIDENCE

KANE THOMAS .

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE . ° '
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and Foreign Service Officer     
th ghl rt news ffecting the Washi gt n 0
Orgiid L<)alere<:L<))(fnmunity for students, racuiig, O  t, ,03 Chicago, BOSt0Il, NYC, DC, and
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper I - . ,
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders    San 
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire ‘ _ '
to spark discussions that lead to discovering O
Information that prompts change.   3RD  
THE RING~TUM PHI is published Mondays during '
the undergraduate school year. THE RlNG—TUM . _ .
PHI is a member of The Media Board. which     
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
Is otherwise independent.THE RlNG—TUM PHI 
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to 
edit submissions for content and length. Letters 1
and advertising do not necessarily reflect d d 1 1 f
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This In ivi 113 a ointments avai a e rom
newspaper observes current court definitions of  i  ’  5 w
. . y .
   10-00 AM to NOON ’
THE RING-TUM PHI , _ _ . _  — 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341 Visit Career Services to make an appointment.
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY .
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 ChaVlS BOa,l'd_l'0OII1
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 4584059 Career Services
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU .
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45 Careerservlces

 

   

'0‘

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 3,2011

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

arts&|ife

   

Sittin down with Hoodie Allen

Do you know what his avorite sushi roll is? We do. We know you ’re jealous. (Its a crunchy, crab roll, in case you ’re wondering)

BySageUm
STAFF WRITER

Last Thursday, Chiddy Bang and Hoodie
Allen performed at the Pavilion for a Generals
Activity Board sponsored concert. Ring-tum
Phi managing editor Diandra Spicak and I had
a chance to sit down with opening-act Hoodie
Allen a few hours before the concert for a brief
Q&A session.

Ring-tum Phi: How did you get started in
music?

Hoodie Allen: l’ve been writing and record-
ing music since I was probably 12 or I3 years
old. It wasjust something I did all the time when
I was in high school and college and when I was
about to graduate from Penn, I did a song called
“You and I are Robot” that picked up some tracks
online.

Phi: I read that you had ajob at Google after
college though?

Allen: Yeah, I was really lucky to work there
when I did, but it felt like I was doing two full
timejobs at the same time. Music is something I

really loved to do and it got to the point where I
could see myself doing it and live off it full time.
And everything else isjust ajob.

Phi: How’d you get to perform at W&L?

Allen: Well I’m on a college tour right now,
west coast, east coast. It’s actually my first show
at a college in Virginia. Not UVA or VMI, but
W&L.

Phi: Best thing about performing?

Allen: I think the best thing is when people
are singing along and know all the _words to
something that I wrote. You know, they’ll sing
along and yell on top of their lungs. I think that’s
probably the best feeling while performing.

Phi: Worst thing about performing?

Allen: Just that all my clothes get drenched
after performing and I feel like a disgusting hu-
man being! That’s the only thing I can think of.

Phi: What are you working on now?

Allen: Well in July we released a mixtape
called “Leap Year” and that’s been getting
around. And we started already working on

'what’s probably another free tape and my ﬁrst
proper album. So that’s what's in the works now,
no timeline yet.

‘ Phi: Any favorite artists?

Allen: I’ve -been listening to the Jay-Z and
Kanye album a lot. Foster the People’s album is
pretty catchy, I like that. I’m not a big hip-hop
person. I like Frank Ocean. I think I gravitate to-
wards listening more to indie, pop-ish sounds. It
kind of comes through in the music I per.forrn-a
little bit.

Phi: Any one in particular that influences
you?

Allen: My favorite artist of all time is Andre
3000. I think he’s the shit. He can do everything,
rap and sing and is not afraid to go anywhere with
his music. I’ve always been a big fan of his.

Phi: Any other comments?

Allen: All my music’s free online on my
Facebook page. . . ‘and I think W&L is going to be
such a sick time.

 

 D—Hall features local foods

Last Wednesday, the Fall Harvest Dinner tantalized tastebuds for the ﬁfth year, focusing on foods from the area

By Cynthia Lam
STAFF WRITER

The delicious aroma of freshly-baked
bread, savory meats, and steaming hot
cider ﬁlled the air as hungry students,
faculty, and staff ushered in the begin-
ning of autumn with the Local Fall Har-
vest Dinner.

An array of dishes ﬁlled the Mar-
ketplace last Wednesday night, includ-
ing polenta lasagna, Yankee pot roast,
Greek salad, garden vegetables, and an-
gel hair pasta, along with desserts such
as pumpkin cheesecake bars, chocolate
beet cake, and vanilla ice cream.

All of these foods came from local
producers and providers within an 80-
mile radius ofthe school.

Marketplace Chef Geraldine Mc-

Cutcheon said, “This is the ﬁfth year
we’ve been doing the Fall Harvest Din-
ner and our goal is to celebrate the di-
versity of food that’s available in the 10-
cal market. W&L is very committed to
sustainability, and part of sustainability
is keeping the farming community here
vital by buying local.”

As part of this commitment, many of
the regional produce farmers and small
vendors work closely together with the
university to provide fresh, healthy, and
local food for the students. The beef
comes from Buffalo Creek Farm right
here in Lexington, Joe’s Pasta in Char-
lottesville provides past of course, and
Homestead Creamery in nearby Frank-

Real friends

get ﬁt

Its the group exercise program ’s “Bring a
Friend Week” - tag along for free!

By Kelsey Cotter
STA F F W R I T E R

There’s no better time than this week
to try out Washington and Lee’s new
and improved group exercise schedule.
During the week of October 2nd through
October 8th the group exercise program
offers “Bring a Friend Week”.

Aubrey Shinoﬁeld, service-learning
coordinator, said that the program’s goal
is to get as many people involved as pos-
sible.

A one group exercise class costs $10,
but next week students have a chance
to join a friend for free who is already
committed to group exercise and see
how they like the workout.

Students who bring afriend can also
enter their name and their friends name
in a raffle to win a semester of ﬁtness
classes for free. The raffle sign up is lo-
cated in front of the studio on the fourth
floor of Doremus Gym.

Shinoﬁeld says the group exercise
program has introduced new classes to
provide a fuller schedule for busy stu-
dents.

“Some people say they don’t have
time to ﬁt a class into their day, but
we’ve expanded our range ofclasses and
our hours to accommodate students’ and
faculties’ schedules,” says Shinoﬁeld.

“We welcome feedback. We want
to know time that work best for your-
schedule and we will do our best to
make it happen,” says Shinoﬁeld.

The student teaching program is also
new this fall. The goal is to train a small
number of students in Pilates, spin, and
kickboxing. Shinoﬁeld believes in the
beneﬁts of having students teach classes
in order to spark motivation and excite-
ment in their piers.

Sophomore Emmy DiGiovanni
teaches Zumba classes on Sunday at
6:00 and Thursday at 7:00 in the dance
studio. Emmy bringsher own style into

the class by incorporating hip-hop music ’

into the traditional Latin music routine.

She uses songs and moves that her
students like in order to bring more life
to the class. “Zumba should feel like a
party. The more people the better!” said
DiGiovanni. She received her Zumba
certiﬁcation last February in North Car-
olina and continues to add to the pro-
gram.

Sophomore Sarah Strunk has taken
Emmy’s class and loves the environ-
ment. “It’s fun because one of your
friends is leading you. It’s not as intimi-
dating”, said Strunk.

lin County churns the milk.

The honey is gathered at Whistle
Creek Apiaries in Rockbridge Country,
and the tofu is made from soy beans at
the Twin Oaks Farm in Charlottesville.

All in all, over 30 percent ofthe food
used by W&L’s dining facilities is 10-
cal. This includes the chicken, ﬂour,
tomatoes, potatoes, yogurt, cheese, and
apples,just to name a few.

“The program has been very good for
the local businesses,” said McCutcheon,

“There’s a really good synergy between

the food that the university uses and
what farmers and processors have an
excess of.”

More importantly, she notes, this ex-

change helps protect the environment
and reduce the school’s carbon footprint.
“Farming is a very energy-intensive
business,” said McCutcheon, noting the
ecological costs of packing, shipping,
and storing produce. “If you’re buy-
ing local, all ofthese get out... the food
choices that you make really have an
impact.”

The difference is not only evident in
the environment, but also in the taste of
the food.

“There are lots of great things about
local apples... people pick them right
off trees. They’re not commercial,
so they’re not waxed or refrigerated,
they’re a lot fresher, a lot more sustain-

able, and of course, they’re delicious,”
added McCutcheon.

Students have noticed the difference
as well. First-year Victoria Blackstone
said, “You can deﬁnitely taste the dif-
ference between the organic and the
non-organic fruit. The local apples
have the blemishes on it, and it makes
it more real and it doesn’t taste so artiﬁ-
cial, whereas the apples that aren’t local
are shiny and crisp, and they’re creepily
perfect, but they aren’t apples. I prefer
the local apples.”

ACROSS _

1 "___ the Man" (Amanda

Bynes film)
5 Quatrain rhyme scheme
9 Badass

13 Pitch __

14 Scottish girl

15 "The Office"

I receptionist

16 Main through the
abdomen

17 Hormonal system

19 "Game of Thrones"
network (that also airs
movies!)

21 Bavarian river

22 Gp. formed at the
breakup of the Soviet
Union

23 Sister of Lucy in the
funny pages

26 Gobi and Kalahari

28 Jefferson Davis's nation:
Abbr.

30 Strip club fare, briefly

31 Narc's org.

32 TV Guide's "Greatest
Television Program of
All Time"

34 Phrase heard in ads
about 5 months after a
movie's theatrical debut

38 Like shoes banned in the
chemistry lab

39 Attack dog's sound

40 NYC subway initials

41 Network with
"Huckabee" and
"Hannity,",in short

42 Wordpress alternative

46 Ed of "Up"

48 Bite the dust

49 Lake that's a homophone
of 47-Down

50 Gross figuresfor the
movie industry

54 Subtitle for Tag Team's
one—hit wonder
"Whoomp!"

56 Yogi Berra, e.g.

57 Western African nation

58 '62 Connery/Andress
film

Yeah — That just Happened by Neville L. Fogarty ’1Il
Note the first word of the answer to each movie—themed clue in italics

1 2' 3 A S B

T -B E‘ W 11 12

:3 14

2329

I94 35 ‘:33 37

39

 

42

'45
5:1 $3 5}
54 55 5
51 5-3 -59
an 151 oz 

59 Last name of Lisa "Left
Eye" of TLC
60 Doing nothing
61 Paula who loves butter
62 Chinese currency

DOWN

Larry, Moe or Curly
"Futurama" bureaucrat
Joined, redundantly
Caesar's downfall
Bledel of "Gilmore
Girls"

Mexican Johns?
Typist's tetrad

Dating from

Thanks to Gerard
Depardieu?

10 Set straight

11 Feature of Jaws

12 Valedictorian's number
13 Reacted to ﬁreworks or
, a massage

18 Leaves of coriander
20 Shape of a "Solitary"

pod
24 Sch. in Sin City
25 Young assn. against
DWIs

\D®\lO\ UI-lib-Jl\)h—t

27 How unemployed
college grads may live
off their parents
Steve Jobs gave up this
title in August 2011
29 Wrestler's uniform
32 Groundskeeper's supply
33 2010 hit with Xbox and

Atari metaphors
34 Sleep on a soap
35 Makes a choice
36 Have good intentions
37 Texas A&M's jumping
ship to it
Plays "The Price is
Right," initially
43 Abe, on "The Simpsons"
44 Come on her?
45 Takes a breather
47 Bone—chiIling
48 Battleship guess near an

edge
51 Scottish pirate William
52 To be, in

Aix—en—Provence
53 Just ‘
54 "I didn't need to hear

that!" r
_55 "I've been _!"

    

   Find   % an error   in this we{ek’s,  
     P *1 i?   re run n ins   low on c     
         edi1‘ers.        

  
   
   
  

            Emai I the phi   a+ phi@wtu;edu

        wi+h  vour c orrecﬁons!     

 W        The Person with  WW /\+      
        9 e+s b «k ed 900 ds   m y undv ins  

    gramud   and a    sh om‘ -ou+in+he  

~             f'9X* issu 9!               

 

 

- THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY,

 

ALEXANIDIER iVIAl{AGOS

For 18 weeks and four days, football fans suffered the daily
unrest that lingered for the duration of the NFL Lockout. It re-
ally seems like forever ago that I went to church every Sunday
and prayed that at some point during the next week, the lockout
would be miraculously lifted. The owners and players eventually
put away their differences (and answered my prayers) without the
schedule or the league-wide fan base taking much of a hit.

OCTOBER 3, 2011

sports

S'l‘EPHE1 I PECK

This NBA lockout is, simply put, a disaster. The handful
of owners who believe that the best way to run a franchise is
to give blank checks to mediocre free agents are completely
at fault. That issue is at the very cmx of the lockout: ‘players
are vastly overpaid and owners are inexplicably losing money
even when the sport is at the height of its popularity.

It is not the players’ fault that they are overpaid. That is

Now, with that lockout over and another one in full swing, I can
honestly say that any angst over whether or not the NBA season
will occur has nearly disappeared. It’s not like I have a “Care Me-
ter” when it comes to lockouts-—because sports are about breaking
those loyalty boundaries. However, I’m not going to lie to myself
day after day believing that a huge chunk of my life will be miss-

Stephen and Alex hash out this Week’s_
question: Who stands to lose the most if the
NBA season is canceled?

Alex says the organizations while Stephen
thinks it will be the layers.

simply the byproduct of what happens when savvy agents
and business-illiterate general managers come together to cut
deals. Rashard Lewis had the best quote on the matter in a re-
cent Washington Post story: “You sign me to a deal, you think
I’m going to say, ‘No, I deserve $50 [million] instead of $80
[million]? I’m like, ‘Hell, yeah.’ I’m not going to turn it down.
You can’t blame the players. If anything, we don’t negotiate

ing if the NBA does, in fact, cancel a signiﬁcant amount of regular
season play.

-I saw a tweet a few days ago that sums up my feelings perfectly, “My #NBA lockout indiffer-
ence has reached an all-time high. There seems to be no ceiling to it either” (via @ZWMartin). It
might be sad, but I continuously surprise myself with how much I don’t care about this situation
that seems to be spiraling to lower depths.

Now, I might not have had a lot of interest to lose to begin with, but there are many people/
things, that could be The Biggest Loser when all is said and done around Thanksgiving/Christmas/
Valentine’s Day (does anybody really know?).

My vote for who loses the most would be the group of mid to small market teams like Okla-
homa City, Utah, Golden State, Phoenix and Minnesota, among others. Those teams rely on the
inﬂux of casual fans to their stadium. They don’t have the consistent fan bases that the Lakers,
Bulls, Celtics and many others enjoy. The smaller fan bases have a short attention span, so it’s
imperative that their teams remind them how good (and therefore relevant) they are.

No time isa good time for a lockout, but the NBA lockout truly comes at a terrible time for
the league.

All eyes were on the NBA for a majority of last summer, as the most talented free-agent class
in league history chose new homes. Every day, fans were bombarded with constant updates about
what those free-agents were thinking, where they were visiting, what they were eating, what they
were drinking and what their favorite color is.

players. As we all know, three of the most talented players on the market decided to play together
in Miami (and subsequently sabotage a good amount of their positive public image), which created
lots of buzz around the league as to who had the best chance of knocking off the newly formed
juggernaut in South Beach.

As a result, many of the eyes that were following the summer roster—shufﬂing remained glued
to the NBA in the fall and winter. The 2010-2011 season was as exciting as any in recent memory
thanks to a deep group of talented young players (particularly guards) and a suspense-ﬁlled post-
season.

When Oklahoma City played Memphis in last year’s Western Conference semi-ﬁnals, fans got
to watch two young and talented teams - whose combined payroll was less than the Lakers’ alone.
Whether either team gained a signiﬁcant portion of fans after that heart-stopping series is yet to
be known; however, if those fans lose interest in the teams because of the lockout, then the ef-
fect - both ﬁnancial and psychological - of any new fans likely won’t be felt by the organizations.

This ordeal may not matter for the Lakers, who outspent every other NBA team by $17 million
lastiyear and have a fervent fan base, but it will kill teams like Oklahoma City, who aren’t as likely
to throw around money that isn’t usually there and are less flexible in ﬁnancial discussions.

After the 2010-2011 season the NBA had fans that weren’t usually there~now they might be
gone too.

What’s your ta e?

The NBA received almost endless positive publicity, all thanks to a handful of very talented)

the deal. We’ve got agents that negotiate the deals with the
team. Y’a1l need to go talk to the teams and the agents.”

Owners are ﬁnally realizing that the current system of ridiculous overspending is not
sustainable. And unfortunately, the owners will come out ofthis lockoutjust ﬁne having not
had to pay for signing so many ill-advised deals. It will be the players that have the most to
lose ifthe season is lost. _

Look at some of these mind-blowing contracts that will be slashed dramatically if the
season is lost: Chauncey Billups is set to make $14.2 million next year; Travis Outlaw(!),
$7 million; Richard Hamilton, $12.5 million; Mehmet Okur, $11 million. And perhaps most
egregiously, Gilbert Arenas is supposed to make $19 million this season (to put that into
perspective, he makes six million dollars more per year than Kevin Durant). There are doz-
ens more of these contracts out there, and instead of the owners being punished for signing
these deals, the players will be the ones seeing their money disappear. V

Now the players won’t be the biggest losers just because their wallets will get lighter.
From a basketball sense, a lost season hurts everyone from rookies to veterans. Think about
rookies for a second. Because of the lockout, this new draft class couldn’t play in the NBA
summer league, (it was canceled), they can’t practice at team facilities or can’t contact
coaches, they aren’t being paid, and they will lose a valuable ﬁrst year of playing experi-
ence. Kyrie Irving might have wanted to stay in school.

Aging stars will also be devastated if the 201 1-12 season is torpedoed. Tim Duncan is 35
years old and not gettingtany younger, We may have seen the last of legendary point guards
Jason Kidd and Steve Nash who are 38 and 37, respectively. Boston’s trio of Kevin Garnett
(36), Ray Allen (37), and Paul Pierce (35) may see their championship window slam shut
if there is no basketball this year. And the peerless Kobe Bryant and his decomposing knee
cannot afford to lose another chance at a title if he ever wants to tie Michael’s six rings.

Every player will lose ifthere is no season. But the player who stands to lose the most?
That’s easy.

LeBron James.

If there is no NBA basketball this year, “King” James will be two years through his
4-year contract at Miami and still without a ring. He will have to wait until the 2012-13
season to make people forget his epic choke in last year’s Finals versus the Mavericks.
He will have to live with being the guy who took the easy way out and became the Robin
to D-Wade’s Batman in an effort to win a handful of easy championships, and failed, for
another year.

Everyone loses if the season is canceled, from the fans to the owners. LeBron and the
rest of the players will first lose more than most. ‘

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

Soccer improves to .500 A

 
  

The Generals take advantage of late penalties by Randolph to tie the game and win 2-1 in overtime

By‘Jayna Johns
spoars EDITOR

With momentum on their side head-

  ‘l2@MAll.. 

 
 

A penalty-meltdown by Randolph
College in the ﬁnal 30 seconds of Wash-
ington and Lee’s men’s soccer game
Saturday turned an impending 1-0 W&L
loss into a 2-1 W&L win in overtime.

Following a comer kick by sopho-
more defender Zach Clarke with half
of a minute left in the game, three Ran-
dolph players received a red card and
two yellow cards after a scuﬁle broke
out in the Randolph box. The red card
gave the Generals an automatic penalty
kick, which junior defender Conor Starr
connected on to tie the game at 1-1 as
time ran out.

ing into overtime, the Generals scored
the winning goal in the 98th minute.
Sophomore midﬁelder Parker Wolﬁnger
beat the Wildcat keeper one-on-one to
put W&L on top.

The win improve W&L’s record to
4-4-1 overall and 2-2-1 in ODAC con-
ference play.

Neither team netted a score in the ﬁrst
half of the match, and only nine total
shots had been taken, four by the Gener-
als and ﬁve by the Wildcats. Randolph
held a strong advantage in corner kicks,
taking three while W&L had none.

The Wildcats got on the board at the
58:21 mark, but W&L came on strong
in the ﬁnal ﬁve minutes of regulation,
registering two shots and three comer
kicks. It was the ﬁnal comer kick that
eventually led to the W&L penalty shot.

The Generals ended the game with 12
shots to the Wildcats’ 11, but had only
ﬁve comer kicks, one fewer than Ran-
dolph. Senior keeper Ben Petitto spent
the entire game in the net, accounting
for two saves.

A game at F errum earlier in the week

resulted in another W&L win, 3-2, but

opposite fashion, scoring heavily in the

ﬁrst half and holding on for the win
through the second.

Ferrum scored ﬁrst, connecting on a
penalty kick only 13 minutes into play,
but the Generals responded with fervor,
recording three unanswered goals to go
into the break up 3-1.

A comer kick in the 27th minute set
up W&L’s ﬁrst goal, made by senior
midﬁelder Connor Pierce after a shot
by sophomore midﬁelder Alex Zelinski
was blocked. Two minutes later, junior
defender Basti Richter netted a header
off an assist from sophomore defender
Brendan Farley.

Zelinski made up for his earlier
blocked shot in the 44th minute to add
to the Generals lead.

The Panthers closed the gap in the
73rd minute but the General’s defense
held strong to preserve the win. Petitto
shared the net with ﬁrst year Albert
Civitorese, each recording a save and
Petitto earning the win.

The Generals will be back on the
ﬁeld Wednesday to host Southern Vir-
ginia at 4:00 p.m.

 

8 - THE RlNG-TUM PHI -

SPOFTS

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 3.2011

ondeck

 

In E119 numbers

The number of punts the Chicago Bears’ Devin Hester has
returned for a touchdown in his career, a new NFL record. His

11th came on Sunday against the Carolina Panthers, a_ game

11

the Bears won 34-29.

The number of rushing touchdowns Wisconsin running back
Montee Ball has since November 6, the most among FBS teams

in the same time span. South Carolina's Marcus Lattimore is in

27'

second with 15.

The number of years since Texas A&M last beat an SEC team af-
ter falling Saturday 42-38 to Arkansas. The Aggies next chance

will come next season when theyjoin the conference.

The number of undefeated teams remaining in the NFL.
The Detroit Lions moved to 4-0 on Sunday for the ﬁrst time
since 1980 after a come—from-behind, 34-30 win over the
Dallas Cowboys, and the Green Bay Packers also moved
to 4-0 after winning 49-23 against the Denver Broncos.

The Lions and Packers will face each other in four weeks.

soapbox

“They have turned a difﬁcult return to The Ballpark into a
once—in—a-lifetime experience for Cooper. Nothing could be
more exciting for a boy than throwing out the ﬁrst pitch to his

favorite player. We are glad and grateful to be here to see the

16

2

X
/

Rangers start their march to the World Series."
-lnastatamontIaleasedbythe1haasRarig'ors,Jonny

Stone, thowllbofshannon, theman whopassedawayon
July 7 after falling ovara railing at the Rangers’ ballpark,
commentadon horson Connors experience throwlngout

the11rstpIlJch1brlastFl'lday'same.

MON TuEs WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
at
Emory&
Football Hem,
1 PM
at
Emory& at Maroon at Maroon
Volleyball Hem Classic Classic
7 PM 5 PM 12-F;M
a
Men's vs Southern Virginia
V"9'n'a Wesleyan
Soccer 4:30 PM 2 PM
Women’s 3‘_ "5
Hollins Lynchburg
Soccer 4 PM 11 AM
Field atvirginia -VS
Wesleyan Liberty
Hoc key 6 PM 2 PM
Cross
Country
VA State
GO” niercullcgiai
Dayl

“This smacks of a calculated effort to manipulate our

eligibility rules in a way that undermines the integrity of, and

public conﬁdence in, those rules,”

—NFL oommlsslonerkogereoodellsald  to
uphold Raiders rookie quarterback Tonalle Pryor's nva-ame
suspension, whIchmshandeddownbyﬂ)oNcMbefora

/

Pryorraststarodibruiesupplernemaldratt.

“Applied at Regency Furniture, need a 2nd job to stay afloat

during the lockout."

-Naﬂroeagentbelontnwesttwaeliadlastllibdnesdaythat
he,lIkamarurothorplqyars,was1broedmseekoutaseoond

./

lncomesourooasarasultoftheongolngloclrout.

 

Shutout number nine

ODA C foes have yet to score on the Gennies, who have given up only one goal this season

By Angela Williams
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Washington and Lee’s women’s soccer
team remains undefeated in conference play
after winning 8-0 at Sweet Briar on Saturday,
improving to 4-0-1 in ODAC play and 8-1-1
on the season. Amazingly, the Generals have
given up only one shot this the entire season,
outscoring their opponents 44-1 through ten
games.

Seven different players accounted for the
Generals’ goals, with two coming from ﬁrst-
year midﬁelder Holley Beasley.

Beasley was the ﬁrst to score, netting a
ball only eight minutes into play. First-year
defender Emily Scott put in another score a
little more than four minutes later, and Beas-
ley put in her second goal about ten minutes
later at the 21:32 mark.

With a comfortable 3-0 lead less than a
quarter of the way into the match, the Gen-
erals continued pressing. A third ﬁrst-year,
forward Julia Lancaster, scored in the 31st
minute and senior midﬁelder Allie Espina ﬁn-

 

ished off the ﬁrst half with a goal in the 36th other dominating win as‘ the team took down

 

minute, giving W&L a 5-0 lead going into the
break.

The second half was more of the same.
First-year midﬁelders Katie Rossi and Lauren
Williams each netted the ball, in the 57th min-
ute and 61st minute, respectively, and junior
defender Alex Todd ﬁnished off scoring with
22 minutes left to play.

In addition,to her two goals, Beasley also
recorded an assist while Rossi contributed
three assists to complement her score.

The Generals were as dominating as the
ﬁnal score indicates. Senior Emily Leary
played the entire game in the net without fac-
ing a single shot. In comparison, SBC keeper
Seanne Weekes also played all 90 minutes
and recorded 18 saves. In all, the Gener-
als shot a total 44 times without the Vixens
shooting once.

The win over Randolph marked Leary’s
ninth shutout of the season.

The day before, the women had posted an-

Southern Virginia University 6-0 in Lexing-
ton.

First-years Katherine Rush, defender, and
Madeline F orrestel, forward, each made two
goals while Todd and Lancaster contributed
one each to ﬁnish out the game.

Rush scored ﬁrst, taking a rebound off the
SVU keeper not even ﬁve minutes into the
game. Forrestel put in her ﬁrst shot a little
more than ten minutes later off an assist from
senior midﬁelder Dory Blackey. Rush scored
again in the 29th minute to take the Generals
into the break with a 3-0 lead.

Ten minutes into the second half, Forrestel
added her second goal, and with 23 minutes
left to play, Todd put the Generals further up.
Lancaster ﬁnished up scoring with a goal in
the 88th ‘minute.

Leary recorded one save while playing the
entire game in the net.

The Generals will play again on Tuesday
when they travel to Hollins for a 4:00 pm con-
test.

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTS.COM

istorical Homecoming

W&L football put up a score that hasn ’t been seen in over 60 years, winning 63-0

By Jayna Johns
SPORTS EDlTOR

The Washington and Lee football team
welcomed alumni back for Homecoming in
a big way, trouncing on Guilford on its way
to a 63-0 blow-out, the largest margin of vic-
tory since 1922 and the most points scored in
nearly 61 years.

The last time a Washington and Lee foot-

ball team scored more points in a game was -

against Richmond in 1950, which the Gen-
erals won 67-7. The Gennies ﬁnished that
season with a trip to the Gator bowl (where
they lost 20-7 to Wyoming) and ranked 18th
nationally in the ﬁnal AP and UPI polls, right
behind Nebraska in the AP and"A1abama in
the UPI.

While the football program at W&L has
clearly changed since that year, Saturday’s
win is nevertheless signiﬁcant for the pro-
gram. After posting an undefeated conference
record for the ﬁrst time in program history last
year, the Generals opened up conference play
for this season in promising fashion.

W&L kicked-off to start the game, but
were able to capitalize when Guilford fumbled
on the ﬁrst play of the game. Three plays later,
senior quarterback Charlie Westfal found the
end zone on a 13 yard run to put the team up
7-0 only 1:01 into the game.

Junior running back Luke Heinsohn was

  

event

event

women’s cross country

opponent

Randolph-Macon Invit.

on ﬁre, as he ran the ball in for a touchdown
on each of the Generals’ ensuring drives, the
ﬁrst run from three yards out and the second
from 23 yards, to put them up 21-0 after only
4:45 ofplaying time.

The Generals tacked on four more touch-
downs in the second quarter alone. A minute
and a half into the quarter, Westfal connected

with senior wide receiver Russell Stewart on a,

34-yard touchdown pass. Less than four min-
utes later, Westfal again found the end zone on
a one-yard run.

With just over seven minutes to play,
Heinsohn took off on his third touchdown run
of the day, this one coming from 63 yards out
and moving W&L’s lead to 42-0. Junior run-
ning back Brett Murray ﬁnished up scoring
for the ﬁrst half with a four-yard run with only
ﬁve seconds remaining on the clock to send
the Generals into the break with a 49-0 lead.

The team took its foot off the pedal for the
second half, but still managed a touchdown in
each of the ﬁnal quarters. Heinsohn scored his
fourth — a career high — and ﬁnal touchdown
of the game in the third on a two-yard run,
and ﬁrst-year running back Christian Croft
ﬁnished up scoring for the Generals with a
ﬁve-yard nm.

W&L outgained Guilford 535 yards to 190

s orts u date 

   

10/01 4th of 14

yards on the way to the team’s third-straight
win over the Quakers.

Heinsohn ﬁnished with a season-high 167
yards on only 12 carries while Murray came
up with 85 yards on 11 carries. Westfal only
threw the ball three times but complete two of
them for a total of 71 yards and a touchdown.
Stewart was the receiver for each completed
pass.

Defensively, W&L was overwhelming,
allowing the Quakers to make only 11 ﬁrst
downs and complete ten of their 24 passing
attempts. Guilford converted only two of its
13 third downs while throwing four intercep-
tions. The Generals also forced and recovered
two fumbles.

Senior linebacker Rob Look led the team
with eight tackles, while junior defensive
back Jake Pelton ﬁnished with six tackles, an
interception and a fumble recovery. Sopho-
more defensive back Lee Peaseley, senior
linebacker Taylor Malone and junior defen-
sive lineman Greg Barton accounted for the
other interceptions.

Senior kicker Peter Alston was perfect all
day, going nine for nine on PATs.

The Generals will be back in action when
they travel to Emory & Henry on Saturday for
a 1:00 p.m. kickoff.

ﬁehhockey

date result
opponent date result
Don Cathcart Invit. 10/01 4th of 16
Shenandoah 09/28 W 1-0 2OT
   Lynchburg 10/01 L 4-0
- date result  h 
Lehigh Paul Short Invit. 09/30 10th of 42   a 4
 opponent date result
Eastern Mennonite 09/27 W 3-0
date reSu]t Virginia Wesleyan 10/01 W 3-0
Mary Washington 10/01 W 3-0

  

l

\C

