 
   

 

<‘ ., ’

Well played, WNLI

   W&l..’s own sketch comedygroup  
everyonepfromrthe Phi t
T I hashtaggers.   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 THE RING—TUMPHI.

MONDAY, MAY 14, 2012

BY THE

STUDENTS

AND

FOR THE STUDENTS

SINCE

_ Big Changes for The Phi

Plans for restructuring over the summer and a new system of writing means the ‘I2- ’I 3 Phi will be better than ever

By Julianna Satterly
MANAGING EDITOR

Another year of The Ring-
tum Phi is coming to a close,
and while it has been a good one
we are always trying to make
the paper better. With that in
mind, look forward to a whole
ﬂ new paper fall term! Over the
summer my editorial staff and
I are going to restructure the
paper, maybe include some cos-
metic changes and biggest of
all, we are changing the way we
do reporting.

For those of you in the know,
we’re transitioning to a beat
reporting system. If you’re not
a J-Major, like me, I’ll take a
second to explain the idea. Basi-
cally, currently we have writers
who pick a topic and write an
article about it. At the beginning
of the week our editors come
up with several story ideas, and
writers can pick-and-choose
which they want to pursue. Say

   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
 

“sayonara” to that system. Af-.

ism School’s Alumni Advisory
Board, we have decided that it
would be much more effective
to run a beat system. In a beat
system, a certain topic (called a
beat) is covered by one report-
er (the beat reporter) all year.
So each week at our new staff
meetings, each reporter will tell
their editor what the article’s
topic will be that week.

A speciﬁc beat, for exam-
ple, would be Greek Life. The
reporter covering Greek Life
would write an article every
week about Pan Hellenic or In-
terfratemity Council meetings,
upcoming philanthropy events,
etc. At the staff meetings on
Mondays, instead of the editors
coming up with story ideas, they
will ask each writer what they’ll
be covering in their beat. This
puts a lot more responsibility
on the writer and a lot less work
on the shoulders of the editors

ﬁrst fall-term edition explain-
ing exactly what it is that we
do here). So, for this new sys-
tem we are looking for a team
of writers who are committed
and excited about covering their

the Student Activities Fair next
year, where I’ll be sitting with a
sign-up sheet.

Interested in any of these
beats? Interested in writing re-
views on movies or food ‘in Lex-
ington? Email me at phi@wlu.
edu or satterlyjl4@mail.wlu.
edu.

It doesn’t matter what you
plan on majoring in. As long
as you are willing to get your
hands dirty and report the truth
to the student body, then you
can cover a beat for The Ring-
tum Phi.

Get excited because the new-
and-improved paper is coming
at you in just 100 and something

Greek Life

   
  
  
 

ter a meeting with the Joumal—

ByTommy Kent
STAFF WRITER

V Renovations are planned for the Gra-
ham-Lees and Gaines residential halls
starting in the summer of'20l3 to help
improve residential life for ﬁrst-year stu-
dents.

Both Graham-Lees and Gaines were
identiﬁed in the plan because they both
have faults in their design. According to
. the article, “W&L to Upgrade First-Year

 

(look forward to an article in the

First-year housing upgrades in 2013‘

Both Graham-Lees and Gaines residence halls are under review for renovations in 2013 to improve ﬁrst-year life

The maze-like ﬂoor plan of Graham-Lees (left) and the .
isolated suites and tunnel-like halls in Gaines (right) are high on
the agenda for the plan to improve ﬁrst-year residential life.

Housing as Part of Residential Life Re-I

short days!

NEIL HAGGERTY/ News Editor

view,” by Jeff Hanna, executive director
of communications and public affairs,
the “maze-like interior” of Graham-Lees
due to the joining of Graham and Lees
hall in 1940 and the isolation of Gaines
due to its suite style construction are fac-
tors in the decision to renovate.

Sidney Evans, Vice President of
Student Affairs and Dean of Students,
was quoted saying that within Gaines,

   

“there’s no reason for students to come
out of their rooms into the hall, which
reduces the possibilities for community
that are particularly important for ﬁrst-
year students.”

John Hoogakker, the executive direc-
tor of University facilities, said: “The
need for renovation in Graham-Lees
was obvious during my ﬁrst visit to that
building last summer. I became aware of
the shortcomings in the Gaines conﬁgu-
ration through meetings with our Student
Affairs professionals during the fall.”

According to Hanna’s article, the
renovations target a variety of factors,
including “providing more outlets for
students to socialize,” improving the ex-
terior and surroundings of the buildings,
and creating new facilities to “engage
students with programs, lectures, and
even classes.”

Hoogakker said that the plan includes
“general renovation/upgrade in Graham-
Lees and a new ﬂoor plan (with a more
Graham-Lees-like room layout) plus
upgrades for Gaines.” He also said that
more features, including lounges, laun-
dry, and more, are planned for both resi-
dence halls.

The project cost represents about 4%
of the Strategic Plan. Steve McAllister,
the University’s Treasurer and Vice Pres-
ideht for Finance, said: “The First Year
Housing project is currently estimated
to be in the $25 million to $26 million
range. It is hoped that over the coming
months as design is finalized and logis-
tics of the project settled, that we may be
able to reduce this budget.”

McAllister added that the renovations
will be funded “primarily through addi-
tional debt that the University will take
on during the next academic year.”

In Hanna’s article, Evans states that

one of the main questions for the task 4

force is, “whether there is a way to pro-
vide more opportunities for men and
women to interact outside of the class-
room and outside of a party.”

Evans also said: “Students interact
in a very unstructured and informal sort
of way throughout their ﬁrst year, in the
residence halls and the dining hall. And

i

1897

VOLUME cxv, NUMBER 20

 

WANTED: Enthusiastic and committed
writtars to cover the following topics each
topic all year! Look forward to j wee ‘"1

lntercampus Politics

First-year life
The EC and SJC,

Student Organizations

Sports

Academics 8:
Administration

Rockbridge County

that changes dramatically at the begin-
ning of their sophomore year.”

According to Hanna’s article, the task
force, as purposed by the Strategic Plan,
“also is analyzing the current living pat-
terns of sophomores, juniors and seniors
and assessing on—campus housing for
upper-class students.”

Inquire to phi@wIu.edu or satterIyj14@maiI. wIu.edu

In reference to the goals of the First- ‘

Year Housing Project, Hoogakker said,
“My team will be delighted if we can
meet/surpass the expectations of our
customers (the studentsl), colleagues in
Student Affairs and the goals of the Task
Force.” '

ii 

,.A,8cL.i/piiage6f_

2 0 THE RING—TUM PHI 0

pinions

 

MONDAY, MAY 14, 2012

 

Getting the most out of your four years of college

Senior Patrick Smith describes his love for W&L and oﬂers advice for undergraduates in his last article

As I sit and
ponder a Ring-
tum Phi opin-
ion article idea,
I look back to
last week’s is-

sue. Stockton
Bullitt pro-
vides great

input to those
interested (or
bad) at writing
articles for the

 

, school news-
CDLUIINIST papa-_
His com-

ments about Georgia Robertson’s fa-
mously stupid fraternity article were
spot on. There was no point to the ar-
ticle other than to highlight the nega-
tive aspects of fraternity life. The jokes
were not ﬁinny, and there was a negative

amount of creativity. If I were to write
an article being brutally honest about
each sorority at our school, I would be
thrown out. This is the world we live in,
guys, so I digress.

However, for writing that nonsense,
Ms. Robertson, I will gather a group of
people later today, and we will collec-
tively “boo” you. I hope you can hear us
from the country.

The most important takeaway from
Mr. Bullitt’s article was his ﬁrst point.
When you write an opinion article, actu-
ally have an opinion. I will be the ﬁrst
to admit that I have been guilty of this
in the past. I have written some abso-
lutely heinous garbage for this paper,
and for that I say to you all, “Sorry I’m
not sorry.”

For my last article ever, I thought I
would put in a bit more effort. But not
too much more effort because I am on

Spring Option and don’t have class.
Ever. ‘

The opinion I have for this article is
simple: Washington and Lee is a great
place. I am being 100% honest, and
fully stand behind that statement. This
place has treated me well over the years.

Washington and Lee have prepared me
for what lies ahead.

The main thing I learn as I enjoy my
Spring Option is that nothing should be
taken for granted. Treat every experi-
ence you have at this school like it’s
your last. It will all end at some point

The opinion I have for this article is simple.‘ Wash-

ington and Lee is a great place.

The fact that I was able to learn at such .

a great institution, play baseball for four
years, and be in a great-ﬁt fratemity is
nothing shy of a blessing (or a miracle?).
For this, I am very grateful.

Like any other person at this school,
I have had many highs and lows. The
memories and experiences I have had at

LeXington’s greatest treasures

Annie Persons describes her appreciation for rolling hills, eating high-priced frozen yogurt at a gas station, and art

As my
freshman year
draws to a close
and I look back
on the past
L few months, I
feel as though
one of my re-
sponsibilities
(other than
constantly re-
minding myself
that my major
is English and
not “profes-
sional slacking

Bjrhrmieons
HEAD cur-‘iv EDITOR

off’) is to pay,

homage to the little nest that holds our
campus: Lexington. Let’s face it—when
you decided to come to W&L, your ﬁrst
though wasn’t “...and then I’ll gradu-
ate and become a permanent member of

Rockbridge County!” Professors, for-
give me, but as a bright-eyed and bushy-
tailed young college student, Lexington
doesn’t exactly scream ideal post-gradu-

curb outside good ole Wally World and
nearly dropped their bags at the sight
of the rolling mountains, their emer-
ald peaks cascading across the skyline?

and you never want to look back and
think, “I could have done just a little bit
more here.” .

I have seen idiots get an A on a test
because they worked hard. I have seen
whimps shotgun a beer because it’s fun.
I have seen jerks get beat up because
they deserved it. I cannot help but feel

running into someone I knew. The rea-
son I include Sweet Frog is to mention
the irony of it—the fact that W&L kids
can be seen ﬂocking in hordes to sit in a

The fact that W&L kids can be seen ﬂocking in hordes to sit in a

gas station and eat frozen yogurt is almost poetic juxtaposition.

ate residence. . .it whispers “good college
town.” However, even as a mere fresh-
man, beautiful Lexington has grown on

"me, and while I may not spend the rest of

my days here, I feel I must tribute my top
three subtle, perhaps more underappreci-
ated or casually fabulous locations that
make up the gem that is “Lex Vegas.”
The view from outside Walmart
Okay, this one may not be underap-
preciated, but I can’t resist writing about
it. I mean, who hasn’t stepped off of the

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

Whoa. Honestly, have you ever had a
moment like that in another parking lot‘?
Every time I go to Walmart and trek the
parking lot, I have a genuine moment of
thanks that I can live in a place where
even the local Walmart, maybe one of
the most commercial places imaginable,
can render me speechless.

Sweet Frog

Again, deﬁnitely NOT underappre-
ciated. In fact, I don’t think I‘ have ever
hopped over (ha) to this place without

gas station and eat frozen
yogurt is almost poetic
juxtaposition. Personally,
I ﬁnd the place charming
and weirdly comforting;
it is full simple pleasures
such as the brick wall wall-paper I noted
peeling off of the side of Subway. I was
also particularly tickled by the addition
of their newest ﬂavor “Maple Bacon Do-
nut” (the handmade label with surpris-
ingly artistic bubble letters).

Studio Eleven

I bet I’ve got you with this one. Only
those of us who have taken poetry class-
es (pardon me if you somehow just ﬁnd
out about these things) have ever been to
Studio Eleven, I made my ﬁrst appear-

the nostalgia coursing from the plantars
of my feet up through the auburn hairs
atop my head.

Congratulations to all the seniors
graduating on the 24th. It has been a
long road and we are nearing the end
of it. Remember all of the good times,
but most importantly, pay Leonardo Di-
Caprio to “incept” you into forgetting all

the bad memories. If that’s not how “In- ‘

ception” works, careface. That is such a
stupid movie.

Goodbye, Ring-tum Phi. I hope that
a nonsense-spewing—opinions-article-
writing-person springs up. Additionally,
I hope Georgia Robertson never graces
your print again. '

I leave you with one ﬁnal joke:
Crowded elevators smell different to
midgets.

ance last night for a poetry reading, to
earn extra credit for class. At the read-
ing, professors and townsfolk came to-
gether to share poems they had written.
The setting couldn’t have been more per-
fect: soft lighting caressed every corner
of this quaint, white-walled room. The
walls aren’t bare, though—-my favor-
ite part about Studio Eleven is the art-
work. Paintings of natural scenery such
as mountains or grassy ﬁelds deck the
walls in a way that isn’t overwhelming,
but rather contributes to the overall re-
laxing atmosphere in the room.

So, that’s my tribute, and I hope that
in my ﬁnal years here, I can continue to
discover and appreciate the quirks of our
town the way I do the Stars Hollow of
Gilmore Girls. Because while it “doesn’t
have a seedy underbelly. . .it doesn’t even
have a parking meter,” it is still near and
dear to my heart.

Getting ready for the real World

Platt describes how the W&L social scene prepares students for the real world

IULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
LEIGH DANNHAUSER
ANNIE PERSONS

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR
HEAD COPY EDITOR
STAFF WRITERS STOCKTON BULLITT
JON GUEST
TOMMY KENT
SALLY PLATT
ANDREW RENALDO
PATRICK SMITH
GABRIELLE TREMO
YATES WILBURN

GRAHAM COLTON
STOCKTON BULLITT

COPY EDITORS
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON
DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

 

At W&L we tend
to think of ourselves
as living in a bubble.
College life, especial-
ly in Lex, just seems
divorced from the
real world. While this
_ 7 may be true, there are
\ surprising exceptions.
I Our skills can actu-
' ally take us far in the
internship world, if
employed well.

To use them, we
actually have to have
the job. This can be
a bit of an issue, with the economy and the
competitiveness of good internships. Alumni
can help with this but what is really golden is
when someone from your frat or srat has the
job that you want. They are usually very will-
ing to help you climb the ﬁrst rung of the lad-

 

sly? I

CDLUIINIST

der. Having socialized, drunk, and done crazy
things under the same name for four years
deﬁnitely gives you that personal connection
that can put you above the other applicants.
Socializing. Who could possibly know

ple get jobs. Basically, this means if someone
enjoys hanging out with you, they would like
to work with youitoo. It’s all about the per-
sonal connection. Treat your internship like a
rush date. You’re there to impress, but also to

Who could possibly know more about surviving a cocktail party

than a W&L student?

more about surviving a cocktail party than a
W&L student? As it turns out socializing over
alcohol is a large part of how people get jobs
and keep them. Want that promotion? Better
go with the boss to the bar. I intern at the
House Budget Committee and we keep a few
bottles of good wine on hand, you know, just
in case. (Maybe if we broke them out more
often the Democrats would like The Path to
Prosperity a little more?)

People say networking is the key way peo-

show that you would be ftm to hang out with
on a regular basis. An office is a lot like a so-
rority, just more men, more pantsuits, and a
(little) less drama.

We have the skills, now we just have to
adapt them to the workplace. So get ready, do
your research, and have the dankest summer
of your life. (Stockton Bullitt said we were
supposed to use that word so I had to put it in
somewhere. You’re welcome.)

Crmgzratulatiruw

andgaadﬂucétatﬁe

cam aﬁ 2012

 

fﬁramuacvwupparrtegus in
Cameo-cSe2ruice/.5

0 Camp€etetﬁe“CapandQawn:
‘lUfia«t’o ./Ve/.11?” Swweg—
uauntiglitwina$5(l(;’iﬂCaILd

0 .’l’utgawweliﬁantfteQ2¢aduaw.9’./Ila,p—
Ketuau»-Lfmendolfnawwﬁexeuauwillﬁe

ffick up uawt cap cC gown
./I/lag; 16-18 cf ./I/lag 27-22, 9-4
 301

  

 

  

i _ MONDAY,MAY 14, 2012 3 ~ THE RING-TUM PHI °

Every year the Ring-tum Phi editorial

sta commends ve students ro essors A Duh“? his time 
. ff  ’_p f _ here at W&L, Luke Andersen *
or deans for their outstanding service has my made the most out of
_ , _ _ , his college career. From serving on
to the university. This year, the Phi has the Executive Committee and partici-
. pating in the Student-‘Faculty Hearing
nomlnated Luke Andersen; Franco i .gBoardto volunteering at Campus Kitch-
- - - tens and organizing activities with the First-
M0 ISO’ Ash’/la Shara”) D land]/i a lcak Year Leadership Committee, Luke has thor-
' ' ' ” oughly embraced "every single opportunity that
and Natalle Sue}/Z Cangratulatlons to s has come his way. Some of his mostmemorable
' / j ‘experiences include going on service trips to Greece
all of Our wln}/lerS' and Jamaica, helping build a_ home with Habitat for Hu-
By cynthia Lam . manity, and getting two SCUEA certifications. V t E V S‘ of,  / _ /I 
. ARTS AN :3 L I F 5 5 0 no R In addition to his impressive extracurricular achievements,  7. lvl/( wt ll‘/-l (101.11/Vi i I 4 2:11 /ii‘
Luke has received numerous awards for. his academic accom- /V i (X : /"‘Il"”"l“"‘l it ’ 1,’ ‘if .,
plishments, including the Johnson Scholarship, General of Del / 1' ’ Niel" / ‘l "” W" '1" l.‘"- i L" 

“Ge; ,'m,0[ved in wimtever aspects of the Month Award, and Omicron Delta Epsilon and Beta Eeta '
campus life ygu en_/'0y_ Valunfeer’ apply Beta. National Honor Societies. His senior capstone project, which
ﬁne EC committee app0,‘mmemsY mm for — studied the effect of de novo banks on home foreclosure rates, was
elected oﬁ"1'ces, and start organizations P3111)’ inspired b)’ his expeiiehees Weikihg With Piefessei’ M1‘
you ‘re jmeresyed in. Realize that W17 ﬁe Soﬁd ' chael Andersen as an R.E. Lee Research Scholar the summer
academics are crucial, college is a lot more ahei his S°Ph0II10Te Yeah _ _
than just what you do in the classroom. " V . Said Luke “I became 800d 0’ better friends With
many people who were also in Lexington doing re-
search and got to explore the area in ways that
V aren’t really. feasible during the school year.
- It was a lot of fun and Ivwas fortunate
to get that experience.”

  
 
 
  
 
   

  

Intramural S()('(,“(’II l’cur T//Io/1 ()u/mg Club,
* labors Sc-’l‘\'lL'L’ l.cagi/c lt)lllII/(’(:’l‘. l:S()l.

  

' Double-
majoring in

e A Physics-Engineering

 .j .-I 7 _ V - _ ;and Studio Art has taught

Franco  ‘ . Moiso how to ﬁnd the perfect bal-
, it ance in life. By ‘successﬁilly juggling his intensive course
Work with various extracurricular activities, Franco has found

by 1 time to do the things he enjoys most, which include playing
. soccer with professors, VMI cadets, and local townspeople every

 
 

iriillicn,people.

‘Back oricain As
Vice-President‘ 1
Recruitment Com,’ '
Tutor. ‘Asa dank‘, chcreog
ertory Dance Company
duce Indian dance‘-to thy com on

 
  
  
  

   
 
  
    
    
   
 
 

   
 

Week r A . ' V   i alohnson ScholarehIu\DeIi3 Al? i

, Franco“ has won multiple awards for his outstanding academic bet, and Miss Virginia Do I
achievements, including the Robert E. Atkins Engineering Prize, “This unjvei-sityiwm  ‘ ‘
First-YeariPhysics and,E.ngineering..Department Awards and the Phi .3 A5 . S Jib you want.to'do:stretoii*yoi;rs‘eif asjr

   

. Beta Kappa and  Eta Sigma National Honor Societies. Earlier this [ , V, ) , , 7
year; he Showcased hi§ senior at thesis inrstaniar Gallery, which f‘ea_.‘:_ V »'l l. L‘ l\ C/)(’I‘/()I:\.‘ Driller,’ C 0/II/it/Ill‘. 7:3/I/(lc’I7l Study abroad’ ofothef . urn . 
o ‘ tured ayear-long culmination of various videos, collages, and kinetic’. ’ R)<’('/‘I/ll/lI(’I?l C ()llll)I'Il/I(”L:. Slmlclil ( oiisul/ant. place,” Said Ashnm ewhﬁg P
p sculpiures.« This-project was partly inspired by the “Drawing Italy”. ‘ I "W (P "”’”"/”’3 /i"""i /"m" andlcmiosiwgﬁym *1" A is ‘
. Vcoursielhe’tool.(Vlast»'spring tenn.5 Said Franco: “It waslikea dream; i D‘ ‘ ‘
 class,‘ therewere no worries apart from art, and as an artist that is
 Vlikepheavei:i;’.’e Z‘. ‘
 .Of all: his achievements, Franco is proudest of forging
A  connections with everyone he has met here. Said’
if-,Fr'a_r_ico5:’ fflt’ is entering a class with certain professors
3 ' ' and feeling happy because it is them that are teach- '
g » .in'g~the class. Having" been able to enter their
' e . offices and talk with them, maybe not
even about class; learn from them;
having them as mentors; e — 
that is ' _ j 

“Find your passion. If you look for it, you passionate lover”.
will probablyfina’ it at W&L. Once youﬁnd 3“. f°—’mS '°f »‘.’°§“m can

. MY. , Y . - Diandra Spicak1has‘de e p
it you Hill be set. It it on t let go of you, and lege career“) repdnmgﬁmevtumy

you will have no option but to be good in it. - the word, and keeping the Studem body;
There will be struggling times. but they wont Through her work as 1\/Ianaigiiﬁg'E‘diti()‘f mm
be strong enough to make you stop. ” Tum Phi and Presidentof the So  "
sional Journalists, as-jwell as-her  
WLUR and the Rockbridge— 2 _
helped signiﬁcantlysfrengthen 
l\’i/7_q—-/i///1 l’lii. ( '().\'7]' ICT (.'o/it/nittcc, gram and elevate itS}SIafl1'fS,0h  its
Il'l.(fl{’, S'o<‘1'u/i‘ ()/A/Y)/‘()/(i’.\.'.’\'l()/l(l/./()lI/'/l(( ists, Ofaii her a000mP1iShm¢11t.S he
l\.’ml\.l»,"iu’;_{u .l\’ig,iiz'i/‘/. l’l l‘»“<'/¢/ l’lii Sio/‘o/‘//i‘ A V T ‘

through volunteering  places

   
 

  
 
 
  

 
  
 
 
 

“Take full advantage of all the
resources our university has to oﬂer.
You have to work hard but if there is
a will, the university will grant you
what you feel you need to succeed. ”

    
     
    

      
      
 

   
   
  

I, “Try to be involved as much as you
. can in things that are really important
to you without spreading yourself too
thin. This is something I just learned

  

the culture here at’
turallen.s.’f _ V  . *
'’ Even afterall-‘tl1es,_e

compares‘ to the ~expei_'i
own name’ i p

newspap'e‘r,« broade V

    

  

1!

 

this year. ' 7 ‘ : g. S‘ “ .. ~
Powerful friend-j ' -j 5  -
ships and lifelong experiences ’ A
have shaped the past-'-four years‘T'for"_ 
‘ Natalie Stier, who has ibeenlian "inspiration
both in and outside of the classroom!‘ Adevoted

geology major, Natalie has conducted remarkable re- '
search on topics like the seismic idevelopment‘ of Arctic
_ Alaska and Piesehied he_T honeis iheSiS".ih]ii'hhi Ofpeifeieum ‘ P ~ “Don 't conform, and stay true to yourself."
(;:$;’:;’yyD1::‘:‘::I:1:Itﬁ*:\:‘V:r“:1";1i:Ergﬁgtiieﬁiy : V ' If that means wearing awkward hipster
honored with the Frank Gyomg Awards V  ~ g p.  pants or 0V€l‘SI.«.'€cl tees. gofoi it. Don I lot
In addition to her extensive academicwwmplishments, Nat_ others influence who you reall_v are. And.
. talie was captain of the track and ﬁeld tearngandiset multiple make if 67 PfN’l:V Wl7€l'€’V€”' N011 30- i/01 1 (‘(1/7

event records, Which led herio fe6€iV¢‘t1Y¢ Most Improved take that however you please. "
Award her sophomore year, * Earlier thlS_—::y€ar, Most '
Valuable Player Award was renamed thelNata1ie” Stierf‘
Award in her honor to recognize theextteme courage
and strength she displayed while recovering-:ii*o"i 
e a» seriouscar accidentthat took place 11 
junior year. . ‘ '   K’ ‘  i
“One of the most memorab1e.,tl1mgs for.me‘
was when the studentsorganizied‘ the dodge
. tournament for Kevin and me. aﬁer the accident.
I was amazing how supportive‘ the  student»
body was of us,’.’ said5Natalie.Wf-“My family and 
friends are extremely  tome? ‘ ‘S
and I love then so and». I"irif‘
going to do my best at anything;
in life that’s important, to.

97‘

. me ,  

  
     
   
     
 

about it. Idonft
it.” she said. 3  

 
     
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   

   

   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  

7‘/‘at’/x’ (Il.7(/ l"/Plrl. (i<’()l(2gi' Rc’S(’(l/‘('/I

 

    
    
   
 
 

 

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI 0

MONDAY, MAY 14, 2012

opinions

 

All the things Ididn’t get to say

Surprise! Stockton Bullitt is back with a ﬁnal article. reﬂects on his four years and oﬂers advice for younger students

Graduation
season is upon
us, which means
there will be a
ton of stuff di-
rected towards
the future for the
Class of 2012
(aka the Mayan
‘ grade). Now,
" it is the time to
hear what our
class can and
will hopefully
become. If you
are unfamil-
iar with this type of rhetoric, just You-
Tube “Steve Jobs Stanford” or “Conan
O’Brien Dartmouth” and you’ll get your
ﬁll of these kinds of speeches.

Thanks to the Internet and previous
Washington and Lee graduations, I’m
pretty comfortable with these kinds of
speeches: a) make a couple of school
speciﬁc jokes, b) talk about personal life
in struggle form and c) bring it back to

   

Byistc-clctori1Bull'
CDLUIINIST

. graduating senior applicable cliches and

analogies. I’m not nearly as good as suc-
cessful people at this kind of rhetoric.
Also, as a graduating senior myself, I
don’t know what the heck is behind the
curtain. So I’m not going to say anything
to the Class of 2012, other than wasn’t it
absurd that I didn’t beat the RA in that
trivia game during O-Week? There was
money to be won and they gave it to a
guy who wasn’t even a freshman. Re-
ally?

Anyway, since the “You can do it
graduating seniors” rhetoric has been
done so much before, there is obvious-
ly going to be counter rhetoric because
writers always need something original
to talk about. Recently, I read Bret Ste-
phens’ opinion article “To the Class of
2012” in the Wall Street Journal. Be-
fore you think that I’m trying to show
oﬂ° that I read the Wall Street Journal, I
actually saw it on my Facebook feed. In
the article, Bret Stephens laments on the
problems of the graduating generation.
He shares with us facts about life that we
obviously don’t understand like “in our
‘knowledge-based’ economy, knowl-
edge counts. Yet here you are, probably
the least knowledgeable graduating class
in history.” This is typical of a 38 year
old Middlesex graduate, who just broke
his “the kids today aren’t like they used
to be” cherry.

For some reason, this article has
bugged me the last few days. And while
I don’t appreciate the condescension,
I thought I would imitate the patron-
izing “I know more than you now that
I’m older and therefore smarter” Harry
Wormwood (the dad in “Matilda”) style
tone for an opinion article. So, for my
last article, I am going to try to give you
readers some advice about how to spend
the rest of your careers at Washington
and Lee. These are things that I either
was lucky enough to do, or really wish I
had done in my four years in Lexington.
And, hopefully, they will be a bit more
nuanced then the back of the t-shirt you
were given during your pre-O trip.

Don’t Worry So Much about
Who You Are _

A common criticism (sometimes a

compliment) of W&L is that the social

scene can be a lot like high school. Juicy I

Campus,.College ACB and poorly writ-
ten opinion articles (sorry, but I can’t
get enough of Georgia Robertson) have

created a socially—aware atmosphere
that can sometimes make students feel
embarrassed about their identities. This
criticism can come from both ends: “Oh
you’re studying on a Friday?” and “Oh,

generation. Of the little professional ad-
vice I have been given, most of it tends
to be, “No really, you’re not that smart.”
Now, it could be that I think I’m right a
little too much. Stop nodding your head.

No, the reason liberal arts colleges are necessary

and the reason I went to one is because liberal arts

colleges serve one purpose: they help you ﬁnd the

one thing you really love.

you’re going out on a Monday?” usually
have the same effect when ac company-
ing raised eyebrows.

Furthermore, you get people like Mr.
Stephens calling your brains “like old
maps, with lots of blank spaces for the
uncharted terrain.” The common lament
on our generation is that we have no real
knowledge, are much more spoiled than
any other generation in history, and we
are so addicted to technology that we
have no real basis for communication.
If you listened to enough people both
in school and online (print’s not really
a medium anymore), you would most
likely believe that whatever you are do-
ing and feeling is probably misguided
and ignorant.

Do not listen to anything those peo-
ple are saying. You are in college. You
get four years to have your own preroga-

tive. High school is about leaming so- -

cial norms, tricking parents, and getting
into college. It’s not until you are out of
college you start having those dreaded
responsibilities. Therefore, the times be-
fore and after college necessitate some
type of conformity, but college is your
time to be selﬁsh. Since it’s only four
years, you can’t waste this free time
worrying about who you are. If I could
change one thing about my four-year
experience, it would deﬁnitely be spend-
ing less time doubting my own personal
validity and letting friends question

' theirs. You don’t have enough time here

to think that you are worthless; just re-
member, you got into W&L and there is
someone somewhere who already thinks
you’re great, so why spend time ques-
tioning that person’s beliefs?

Don’t Be Cocky

Now the other side of that coin
is to not to take your own personal va-
lidity to be superior to anyone else’s. I
know that I’m starting to sound like a
kindergarten teacher, but frankly, I think
most problems at this school stem from
someone being a little too sure of them-
selves. You shouldn’t feel bad for go-

ing out on a Monday or staying in on a ,

Friday, but you certainly are not a better
person for making that decision. ‘

It’s pretty simple, if you remain over-
ly conﬁdent in yourself, three things can
happen. One, other people start to detest
you. Chicks don’t dig the “two truths
and a lie” pick-up line. The “I’m god’s
gift to mankind” freshman always gets
shafted on bid night. Professors tend to
dislike “I’m going to comment on every-
thing that is said in class” student. The
“I’m better than you” upperclassman al-
ways gets kidnapped. The social scene
tends to give overly cocky people their
comeuppance.

Two, you will leave W&L with the
exact overly-inﬂated sense of self-worth
that older generations say plagues our

But it could also be that older people are
tired of being told how life really is by
younger people who do not know what
they are really saying. Go on a quick
tangent, if you can. Give more time
than you already devote to ﬁnding a job.
Whatever job that is, don’t obsess over
it, but try and give it more attention.
Three, nothing will happen. There are
a bunch of overly-cocky people (both
student and staff) at this school who nev-
er get what they really deserve. Most of
these people will continue to live in the
dark and continue to believe they have a
direct line to the divine. If you made it
this far in the article, odds are you aren’t
this person. Try and avoid him or her.

Cross the Picket Line

At W&L, there is a’ social
pyramid that has a distinct top and bot-
tom. Who is located where on this so-
cial pyramid is anyone’s guess. Most of
the student community at W&L either
abides by the rules governing the chutes
and ladders dictating the ﬂuidity of this
pyramid or abhors and ignores the exis-
tence of said pyramid and tries to stay as
far away from “that scene.”

Whether you are ﬁrmly entrenched
in one of these two groups or you ﬁnd
yourself vacillating between the two
warring factions, this is an element of
W&L culture. My advice is not to re-
spect or ignore the existence of this so-
cial pyramid, but to get to know people
on both sides. You will be so much bet-
ter for knowing someone at W&L who ‘is
not like you that you will probably not
notice the change. On both a micro and
a macro level, it is absolutely vital that
you graduate W&L knowing that people
are basically the same, nice people wher-
ever you go.

If you are some loser guy who likes
hoodies a little too much, don’t be afraid
to talk to the pretty girl who wears de-
signer clothing. As long as there is no
pretense of creepy ﬂirtation, the girl is

not going to shun you. Although it’s"

W&L, it’s not actually high school. The
social apex cliques at W&L for the most
part are ﬁlled with genuinely nice people
who are down to earth, only they are
burdened with the fact that most people
like them. Likewise, if you are a frat or
srat star, make sure you befriend an in-
dependent who could not care less about
the Greek system at W&L. Almost ev-
ery single personl have met outside the
Greek system is both incredibly kind and
fascinating. You don’t really know until
you do this, but you learn a lot about
who you are by chilling with someone
who is not like you, and that’s a good
thing.

You can apply this to warring W&L
factions ﬁghting over anything. If you
are a Democrat (and you’re probably
not), listen to what the Republicans

have to say, and vice versa. Well, except
on the gay marriage debate. You don’t
want to be like the 82% of Americans
who disapproved of interracial marriage
when it was deemed constitutional in
1967. Sorry, I couldn’t resist.

Lastly, if you are not on ﬁrst name
terms with at least one or two intema-
tional students, then why are your par-
ents paying so much money for you to
go here? The same goes for you, intema-
tional students.

Do One Dumb Thing (that
doesn’t get you kicked out)

Yeah, most of you have already beat-

en me to the punch here, but for the se-
lect few of you who haven’t or believe
you haven’t done one really dumb thing
while here, you need to listen. Every-
one else can simply indulge me. Let’s
be honest, there is not one thing short
of cheating, lying, stealing and drunk
driving that will get you kicked out of
this institution. Well, any kind of sexual
misconduct will get you kicked out, but

if you are the type of person to commit -

that misconduct, you really shouldn’t be
here in the ﬁrst place. Now that we have
the bases covered, W&L is one of the
few places in life that you get a couple
of second chances (three to be exact).
Hopefully, the reasoning behind this is
because the school recognizes that you
learn best when you screw up. If you are
one of the minority who has yet to learn
this lesson, it’s a vital one. College is the
best place to ﬁnd out what doesn’t work,
and every single success story that I have
read contains one experiment blowing
up catastrophically. There’s numerous
clichés to put to end this part with, but
I’ll just settle for “you don’t know how
to do something right until you screw it
up a couple times.” Make sure you do
that, and make especially sure you get
caught. You won’t regret it.

Befriend Lex‘Po and the Deans

Keep your friends close; keep
your “authorities who choose to pick off
mostly innocent low hanging fruit and
ignore the more dangerous larger social
issues on campus” closer.

Befriend W&L’s Staff (and
maybe a faculty member or two)
During sophomore year, I started
visiting friends at different schools. I
got to see the variance in how schools
are actually run. I began to realize that
D-Hall isn’t as low on the totem pole as
I am led to believe, but I also saw how
the students and staff interacted with one
another.

As a northerner, I sometimes ﬁnd the
whole southern hospitality thing to be a
bit overrated. People in the South aren’t
necessarily more chipper and polite than
their northern counterparts. However,
there is a strong element of southern
hospitality on campus. W&L is unparal-
leled in the courtesy and warmth emit-
ted by the people who take the effort to
make this school better. I found most of
my mid-week early morning hangovers
cured by the wonderﬁrl Co-op ladies,
and although I will never forgive carn-
pus security for not letting me park in

the admissions parking spots when I re- ,

ally needed to go to the library, they are
always looking to help students get out
of bad situations rather than putting stu-
dents in worse situations. Trust me, these

are rare for college campuses. Therefore, A

I ﬁnd it imperative that we as students

develop strong relationships with these
great people. Yes, these people get paid,
but anyone can simply go to a job and
get paid; people with strong moral ﬁber
go to their job and make life better for
the world around them.

Oh, and use oﬂice hours, especially
with the good professors. You can’t re-
ally do that enough.

Find the Thing You Love

Considering there are so many
liberal arts in the country, there must be
a point to going to one. Mr. Stephens la-
mented that our generation only knows
how to think without knowing anything
speciﬁc whatsoever, so the whole “learn-
ing how to learn” argument doesn’t real-
ly check out. Nor does going the liberal
arts route help you ﬁnd a meaningful
career, as any graduating senior with a
B.A. in B.S. will tell you.

No, the reason liberal arts colleges
are necessary and the reason I went
to one is because liberal arts colleges
serve one purpose: they help you ﬁnd
the one thing you really love. If you al-
ready know what you love, then there
are many other universities you can go
to that provide the vehicles for working
on the thing you love. But the nice part
about liberal arts schools is that it gives
you so many options, you are bound to
ﬁnd something you truly love.

That love does not need to be purely
academic. You can fall in love with in-
vesting or consulting. You can fall in
love with your sport or even Frisbee golf.
It can even be the friends you’ve made in
your fraternity or sorority. Whatever that
thing is, you only really know it when
you have it.

It’s that thing you don’t mind wak-

'ing up early for. You’re not a big fan of

the shitty times your passion can give
you, but instead of discouraging you,
it somehow makes you work harder.
It’s the kind of thing you don’t realize
how much you truly love doing it until
about midway through doing it. It seeps
its way into dreams, both during the day
and night. During the good times, you
sometimes have to stop yourself and
ask, “How the t"‘** am I so lucky to be
here right now?” It’s the kind of thing
that brings you from a resting point of
ﬁve out of ten to seven out of ten just by
being present in your life. When there’s
work to be done, you usually put it lower
down on the list, just so you can work
towards doing it. It’s a nice escape from
the worst parts of the day, and it never
fails to make a better day even better.
Best of all, that passion continuously re-
wards you for your love, paying inﬁnite
dividends on a regular basis.

You won’t necessarily ﬁnd this pas-
sion at W&L, and I’m sorry if you don’t
because that’s why you’re going here.
It’s why W&L gets such a sweet endow-
ment, because its alumni (and its alumni
ofﬁce unfortunately for us graduating
seniors) know that the love and passion
that gave them the guidance and direc-
tion to become successful later in life
originated in Lexington and not in their
respective hometowns.

It took me a while, but I was lucky
enough to ﬁnd that one thing I love while
at W&L.

Her name’s Caitie.

Thank you for a great four years,
W&L. I wish you the best.

I O

6

U,

 

  
    

MONDAY, MAY 14, 2012

5 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

  pinions

W&L Alumni Weekend 2064

After atching alumni relive their college days all weekend, Burr imagines what the school will b

After watch-
ing alumni play
beer pong, wow
students with
their dancing
abilities, scream
I ' every lyric to
Motown songs,
and (new al-
ums) test their
“post-college
game” on fresh-
men girls, I have
begun to think
about what will
be most excit-
ing when I return to Lexington for my
reunions. Besides reminding myselfhow
much the real world pales in comparison
to college life, my reunions will be useful
for learning what careers my classmates
have pursued, how many of them have
married other Washington and Lee grad-
uates, and how the school has changed
in my absence. So, here is a look at what
W&L will be like -when I return for ‘my

By Campbell Bu

OPINIONS EDITDR

50th reunion (note: this article ignores
all of the ridiculous technology that will
deﬁnitely exist at this point).

by tandems (steered by a sober student)
and the bus, a horse-drawn carriage. Ev-
ery student will be limited to one three-
minute, ice cold? shower every day.

Despite these efforts, students will continue to drive

A huge gas—guzzling vehicles, throw beer cans into the

woods and have massive bond ﬁres.
 

Sustainable: And you think the

library is freezing now? Oh, just
you wait. By my 50th reunion, efforts
to help the environment will be taken
to new extremes. The Sustainability Ini-
tiative of 2064 will mean replacing the
three layers students currently wear in
the library with a full ski suit, mask, and
handwarrners during the winter months.
The library will even be renamed “Ley-
freeze.” Classes will be taught with the
lights off and students will study by can-
dlelight. Traveller cars will be replaced

Despite these efforts, students will
continue to drive huge gas-guzzling ve-
hicles, throw beer cans into the woods
and have massive bon ﬁres which will,
of course, cancel out all possible effects
ofthe school’s initiatives.

Mixed: “Gender relations” is one

of the most discussed issues on
campus. Much of this discussion stems
around the fact that boys and girls go
from living and eating together freshman
year to moving to different sides of catn-
pus and eating in separate dining halls

sophomore year.

In 2064, efforts to bring the sexes to-
gether will be so extreme that boys and
girls will be given the chance to live to-
gether in a double their freshmen year.
Bathrooms will be coed and large coin-
munal showers will be built so students
can spend more sober time together.

A couple of brave individuals will at-
tempt to start coed Greek organizations.
The school’s endowment will drop 20%
as a result.

Equal: By the time my 50th

rolls around, everything about
the W&L experience will be equal for
females and males. While these plans
may require collaboration with national
Greek organizations, they will involve
dropping speciﬁed male visitation hours
for the sorority houses, hosting parties
on sorority row, and moving double beds
into sorority houses. Girls will take to
smashing beer bottles down the hall on
weekend nights and punching holes in
the walls when angry.

Additionally, at this point, the school

e like when she returns

will ‘nave done away with the double

, standard, which brings me to my next

point.

Promiscuous: Let‘s be honest,

our parent; would have been hor-
riﬁed ifthey knew the “hook up culture”
would dominate college life within 30-
35 years: I d<in‘t even want to know
what the kids will be doing in 50 years
(especially with the extinction of the
double standard...)

The school will realize that posters
suggesting date ideas are not enough to
change the culture. and. the school will
provide any boy who takes 21 girl on a
date a case of beer for his efforts. After-
all. how else do you motivate a male col-
legc student to do something‘? .

More diverse: I don‘t know how

much this says, considering it
would be nearly impossible to attract a
more homogcnous group than the stu-
dents who currently attend. But. if all of
my other predictions tail, I can rest as-
sured that l was right about something.

President Obama on marriage

bama is forced, luke-warm opinion on gay marraige which he believes shows lack ofcourage

Wilburn comments on 0

President
Obama’s State-
ment on Gay

  
   

2012:

“At a certain
‘point I’ve just
'1 concluded‘ that
for me, person-
ally, it is impor-
tant for me to
go ahead and

_ _ afﬁrm that I
By‘t"ates ‘M burn think same-sex
CDLUMNIST ' couples ’ should

be able to get i
married.”
Yates’ Translation from Politispeak to
English:

“After being held at gunpoint by Joe
Biden’s big mouth, I’ve concluded that
I can’t continue to have an ‘evolving’
opinion on gay marriage without looking
like an idiot. So, I ‘think’ that same-sex
couples ‘should’ have the right to get
married.

But, so I don’t anger my black sup-
porters, l’ll leave any legislative action
up to the states, criticize Republicans for
having this same opinion for the past 30
years, and hope everyone forgets this by
November.”

A Note to the President:

I’m no fan of yours Mr. President, but
you probably should’ve dealt with this
issue earlier. You really expect people-
particularly your more liberal base—to
believe that your “evolving” position on
gay marriage just happened to mature
RIGHT after Joe Biden created a ﬁre-
storm of bad press for your administra-
tion by actually speaking his mind on the
issue?

Now—contrary to your claim
that it would be “hard to argue that this is
something [you’d] be doing this for the
political advantage,”—you are forced to
make a wishy-washy statement on an is-

Marriage, May

sue you’d rather avoid, so as to offend as
few of your liberal and black voters as
possible.

In hindsight, you should have made

marriage liberal voters—but don’t get
upset when people question your authen-
ticity in suddenly ﬁnding your heart in
a mediocre, mushy position that avoids

Pick a side and either reap the beneﬁts or suﬂer the

consequences at the ballot box.

 

a statement early in your presidency re-
garding your opinion on gay marriage, to
avoid such damaging publicity so close
to the election. Instead, you dragged it
out and made it into a campaign issue
that you are poorly equipped to handle;
as your middle of the road opinion has
only made two of your core demograph-

~ics (blacks and strong liberals) question

their support. In addition, you have giv-
en Mitt Romney a tool he can use to get
closer to Republican evangelicals, some-
thing he was having a huge problem do-
ing (thanks for that by the way).

People’s opinions “evolve” as chil-

dren and young adults. My own opin-
ion on this issue could be ﬁled under
“evolving.” But, if I don’t have at least a
tendency towards a position on gay mar-
riage in the next 5 years, something’s up.
By the time someone is your age, a per-
son at least has a gut reaction to an issue
or at the very least a bias. Now, it is not
uncommon or unreasonable for some-
one to change an established opinion on
something given new information, but to
still be formulating one? Please.

This all boils down to an unwilling-
ness to take responsibility for holding
a real opinion on a controversial issue.
Pick a side and either reap the beneﬁts or
suffer the consequences at the ballot box.
I understand the diﬁicult position you’re
in—tom between largely anti-gay mar-
riage black voters and largely pro-gay

any real commitment to anything.

' Prominent ﬁgures on both the right
and wrong sides of other dividing is-
sues in history and today didn’t cop out
like this. Say what you want about them,
but people like Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Strom Thurmond, George Wallace, Su-
san- B. Anthony, George Washington,
Robert E. Lee, Abraham Lincoln, lef-
ferson Davis, Winston Churchill, Angela
Merkel, and even Lady freakin’ Gaga all
did what they thought was right (mostly
against popular opinion), proudly took
the ﬂak, and accepted the results either
way. George Wallace even had the honor
to admit his ignorance and wrongdoing
in the late l970’s after the success ofthe
Civil Rights movement.

Having said that, I am not trying to
put the issue of gay marriage on par with
the Civil Rights movement ofthe l960’s.
Many liberal pundits in the media and
politics have attempted to do so, saying
that anti-gay‘marriage advocates are in
actuality anti-gay rights, and that they
are in the same league as the KKK and
the Nazis. Last time I checked, no, poli-
tician of signiﬁcance from either party
was campaigning against gay rights to
vote, hold a job without discrimination,
speak freely, own a ﬁrearm, or be tried
fairly-—£ertainly not to. the extent blacks
were during Jim Crow. My opinion on
the comparison of this issue and the Civil
Rights movement was summarized per-

fectly by Republican National Commit- ,
tee Chairman Reince Priebus in saying
“I think there’s a big difference between
people that have been murdered and ev-
erything else that comes with Jim Crow‘,
than marriage between [two men] and
[two women].”

The question of basic rights for gay
Americans has been largely settled in
my opinion. No functioning member
of American society of any authority is
making the claim that gays are not peo-
ple, or are somehow lesser htiman beings
to the extent that such was historically
claimed about women and blacks (cer-
tainly not as openly or without conse-
quence). Such comparisons distract from
the real issue, and serve as an obstacle
to any genuine discussion on an insti-
tution that’s “been historical, religious.
and legal in this country for many, many
years” (again, Reince Priebus).

My only claim is that in the great
social questions of America’s past, true
leaders of astounding courage chose
their side and accepted the consequenc-
es. There was no question where the
people listed above stood on the issues
of their day.

You, however, have opted to take
a bystander’s position while others on
both sides of the issue—Republiean and
Democrat, conservative and liberal»
sacriﬁce their time, careers, and reputa-
tions to try and resolve it. Regardless of
one’s opinion on gay marriage, your ac-
tions are ones of apathy at best and cow-
ardice at worst. »

*Note from the Author:

I am a voting Republican, and a be-
lieving Episcopalian. I have yet to form
my own solid stance on the issue of gay
marriage. I do, however, believe that the
government has no business regulating
the institution of marriage via licenses.
Furthermore, I am proudly opposed to
the policy of “Don’t Ask Don‘t Tell,” I
do not believe that homosexuality is a

choice. nor that it can be “cured” in any
w a\.

l‘illLlll:». as a child adopted at birth
and after hat mg lottiitl :1 Zlitii study by
the Americari 'I’sycltological Associatioit
and others showing children adopted by
saine»-sci»; c-;>uples are no more likely to
engage in liomo~.e,\ual a:;ti\ ities. I see no
reason saine—se.\' couples should not be
given the static consideration as hetero-
sexual couples in adopting or prmiding
foster care rm children.

The broken nctturc of the foster care
systein. the ltigli tuexziletice of teenage
pi‘egiianc_\ in in} home state of South
(ftnolina. and in}; pro~lll\c stance inﬂu-
cttcc this iteliel“. \‘=«lii!e I strongly dis-
agree with the continued practice of
abortion (barring extenuating circum-
stances), l lind it impossible to stand op-
posed to it without offering another op-
tion for women laced with an unplanned
pregnancy bcyoitd abstinence-only
sex-ed and a cold. lieartless and llippant
reprimand consisting of little more than
"you shouldn‘t ll1;t\‘C gotten pregnant in
the lirst place." which solves nothing.
Also. I don‘t have a uterus and can never
speak to the lcar. pain, and confusion as-
sociated with an unexpected pregnancy.

As sueh——in addition to a concerted
national ellort to encourage behavior
that leads to fewer unplanned pregnan-
cies in the lirst place that includes, but
is not limited to, expanded sex-ed and
abstinence -I advocate for expanded
awareness ol'zit—birth adoption and for its
presentation to mothers seeking abortion
as an equal alternative. Ilowever, if this
were to take place, more willing parents
wottld be required to ltillill the demand
produced by higher numbers ofchildren
seeking adoption. This realization has
led me to conclude that we cannot af-
ford to turn away qualified homosexual
couples seeking adoption without plac-
ing thousands of parentless children at
risk ofa life ofsatliiess and ignorance.

. .1! mil: .l| finals (if !.u hav¢.tIei)

and have a fantastic simmer!

gﬁarhsfﬂ  

 

 

6 ° THE RING-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MAY 14, 2012

 

rts&|ife

 

WNL? presents live Spring Show

Wednesday Night Live,

By Gabrielle Tremo
STAFF WRITER

“What did the farmer say when he
lost his‘ tractor?” Pause. “‘Where’s my
tractor?” Cue laughter. Thisjoke set the
stage for Wednesday Night Live’s perfor-
mance this Saturday night in the Stack-
house Theater. Wednesday Night Live
(WNL) is Washington and Lee’s most
active and only sketch comedy group
on campus. Making its last appearance
of the year, WNL had a great line-up of
student written, directed, and performed
sketches.

WNL’s chemical equation includes
one part Saturday Night Live, two parts
W&L events, and three parts ﬂawless
satire. The plays are written by the stu-
dents, for the students, and include jabs
at awkward friendships, the stereotypical
W&L student, broken gender relation-
ships, and even classic internet memes.

‘During its last act. the performance even

had a very impressive skit about the poor

writing-style of The Ring-tum Phi. After
that skit; I went up to Jeb Purcell, ﬁrst-
year author of many of the skits (includ-
ing the piece about The‘ Phi), and asked
him a couple of questions, noting how
many of the pieces portrayed classic
W&L life. ' -

“it’s not necessarily what we want,”
Purcell said, “but it’s what people want.
What plays best for audiences is W&L
stuff. it’s relatable; it has to be univer-
sal.”

That is exactly what these skits were.

Who hasn’t had a conversation with»

someone who keeps using hashtags as if
it were part of their language? Or who
hasn’t had that one “best friend” who you
would rather be more than just a “best
friend?” Or who hasn’t gone through
The Phi looking for typos, pretending
it’s a game? (Find ﬁve in my article and
H1 give you a quarter).

However, they also had some other
skits thatawhile not as relatable—‘ were
absolutely hilarious. What happens when
the guy who does every voice over for
the Hollywood trailers tries to ﬁnd a job
at Best Buy? Or how will Mike & Ike’s
come up with a new marketing strategy
to get above 6th place in the non—choc-
olate candy ranking? A particular audi-
ence favorite was how would Cleopa-
tra’s life been different if she had a Sassy
Gay Friend (apparently Mark Antony is
a stupid b!@#$)? These were the exact
same questions that WNL asked,

Despite having relatively little time
to come up with these questions due to
being assembled rather quickly, WNL
put on a great show. “Spring term’s been
hectic,” Purcell said. “It’s been hard to
get everyone together.”

The night of the performance was
the ﬁrst time the whole troupe had per-

formed some of the skits together as a
whole. Regardless, the satire was ﬂaw-
less, the message still pointed, the com-
edy still brilliant. The wit in some of the
skits shone through in both the irony and
in the reality.

A particularly provocative skit was
one depicting the SJC as a male—domi-
nated, misogynistic committee in which
the group judged the students based on
hotness of body—— and how these cus-
toms and traditions were received by the
new, singular female representative on
the committee.

My favorite was a modern represen-
tation of how technology had invaded
our lives. It focused on a date between
a young man and woman in which the
woman would end every sentence with
“hashtag [insert punchline here].” Below
is a sample piece of dialogue:

“You can’t say one thing and then

W&L ’s best (and only) sketchy Comedy group, delivered a double dose of satire and wit

have it mean something completely dif-
ferent?!”

“I don’t think that’s what I’m do-
ing—hashtag, duh.”

The performance was all-in-all hi-
larious and well-received. The audience
gave a standing ovation to the group of
students who had crammed countless re-
hearsals into busy schedules and braved
the stage of sketch comedy— which, as
every group from SNL to WNL knows—
can be either kind or unforgiving. Con-
gratulations to each member of WNL on
ajob well done!

Make sure to stay in touch with WNL
and look for their first performance of
the year next semester.

Beta boasts ﬁne dining experience

Beta takes fraternity cooking to a new level and proves that house meals can be classy. Now there is some food for thought.

By Stockton Bullitt
snxrr warren

 
      
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
     
 

Fraternity cooking took another evo-,

lutionary step this year towards ﬁne din-
ing. On March 28, members of the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity were treated to a full-
llcdgcd restaurant style dinner.

Members of the fraternity were noti-
tied a week in advance to schedule a res-
ervation time of either 5:30 or 7:00 pm
and were encouraged to bring dates. The
dining room was preset with linens on ta-
bles and formal place settings, including
two different types of forks and spoons.
The place settings also included decora-
tive ﬁowers and appropriate plates for
appetizers and desserts. The experience
also included a full service wait staff.

The meal consisted of three differ-
ent courses. The appetizer was a Shrimp
ljscabeche with a side of green peppers,
plum tomatoes and Manzilla Olives. The
main course was a choice between a Tri-
tip Beefsteak with dark onion sauce or
roasted duck breast with Amontillado
Kirsh, and both were served with a side
of lobster and crab risotto and zucchini
Provencal. The dessert featured choices
of Chocolate Mousse Bundt, Hazelnut
Ganache and Raspberry-mascarpone
Coppa.

This menu was inspired by the Cu-
linary Institute of America, which Julia
Child deemed as the “Harvard of culi-
nary schools.” Having recently taken an
exam at the institute, Chef John Stallard
was inspired to provide the fraternity
with a real restaurant experience. The

menu, reserved seating at 5:30 and 7:00 pm, and were encouraged to bring dates to the fancy occasion.

Beta’s first-ever restaurant themed dinner on March 28th. Th

ingredients were mostly taken from 10-
cal sellers and a premium was placed
on fresh ingredients. As Stallard noted,
“Pre-fabricated food doesn’t taste as

‘ good as fresh made food.”

Planning the event was an arduous
and laborious task, but also an exciting
one. The dinner itselftook about a week
to prepare, and the restaurant atmosphere
and food preparation took the entire day.

Marking the night as a success, Stal-
lard hopes to do another restaurant-
themed night next year, and more frater-
nities will follow suit. Looking for more
options in the future as well as a sous
chef to help with the heavy workload,
Chef Stallard believed that the restaurant

experience done in a fraternity house can

continue to evolve and expand.

Beyond just a ﬁne dining experi-
ence, the restaurant—themed dinner was
another step in the continued evolution
of fraternity dining. Stallard was one of
many fraternity chefs who believed that
the food at the fraternity houses was not
supposed to simply be a gluttonous af-
terthought.

“I want students to experience their
food, and maybe chew a little slower to
get everything the food is about,” said
Stallard. I -

Stallard would also like wine at
next yearls event, but noted that since
alcohol-free wine has yet to become in
vogue, the deans might not approve of
the complete dining experience.

   

__,.4s‘—“=7*

e Betas were treated to ﬂne Ilnens, a real

STOCKTON BULL|TT/ staff photographer

 

  

MONDAY,

MAY 14, 2012

7 ‘ THE RING-TUM PHI -

JON GUEST

Professional football is a North American tradition. For years,the
Super Bowl has reigned supreme in the world of professional sport-
ing events, and for many people Sunday afternoons would seem
irrelevant without the opportunity to sit in front of a television set
watching their favorite team step onto the ﬁeld to do battle.

Unfortunately, recent studies have suggested that the term “bat-
tle” is more telling than we may have realized; hundreds of cur-

sports

ANIIREW RENALIDO

The recent death of Junior Seau has brought more attention to player
safety issues in the NFL and the potentially chronic side effects that
players may develop after a career’s worth of violent collisions. But
while evidence of football’s harmful toll on the body grows, there is
little that the NFL’s rules committee can do without fundamentally
changing the game.

rent and former NFL players have ﬁled lawsuits against the NFL

understand these issues. I know what it feels like to have the wind

Is football too violent of a sport? After Junior

Football is naturally a violent sport. Players are prone to horriﬁc

and equi mem manufacture;-3_ Following the tragic death of ﬁgure , . . . . contortions and damaging blows to the head and other parts of the body.
Hall of Flame linebacker ‘Junior’ Seau, the issue of head trauma has Seaus death the Issue Is. brought to hght Once A5 players bec0me, On average, faster and stronger through the years,
resurfaced, and some critics have even suggested that the level of . aga1n' . . the impact cf nits becomes mcie damaging» Almost eVeTY sP01‘t entails
danger is too high to justify the continuance of professional foot— ion and Andrew hne  on Opposlte Sldes of 3 risk Of SeVeFe inlniys but fcctbaii increases this iikeiinccd by empna‘
ball altogether. As a fan and former high school football player, I _ the 1ss11e- sizing tackling and physically punishing opponents.

, Some former NFL players are now imploring officials to clean
up the game. Their concerns stem from an increasing number of play-

knocked out of you, or to feel a little bit dazed aﬂer a hard tackle.
If the administration is honest with itself, I just don’t see how they
can counter the argument that player safety is simply not possible.
Football is a contact sport, and NFL players are certainly capable of protecting themselves...
most of the ‘time. When given the best equipment and top notch medical staff, they are able to
minimize the occurrence of extreme injury. In addition, the millions of dollars that they are paid
seem to poke holes in the argument that players are taken advantage of. Surely there are thousands
of people who would leap at the chance to participate on the grand stage. The problem
with this claim is that it puts a price tag on well be- i ‘- ‘. ing and possibly on
life. 1 don’t think that it is ever a good idea to justify . “ shedding years
oft” of lives for mere dollars. Framed in this man- . ner, it is easier
to see why the situation is inappropriate. Can we le- gitimately con-
sider the question of how much we would need to be paid to give
up one year of our lives? Even the aspiring profes- sional athlete is
unlikely to jump at that deal.

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

As dangerous as it can be, I don’t think that the biggest con-
cern is the safety of NFL players, mainly because _, of the fact that
they do have the best equipment and training and _'g’ because they

nique and the
ing age at which

are suﬂiciently educated regarding the proper tech-
risks of their trade. More alarming is the declin-

 

we are beginning to allow our
cleats and shoulder pads
over. Without the proper
education and state of
the art helmets, etc., and
given their more fragile
state children are much A
more likely to suffer seri- 
ous injuries. With parents _
who are unaware of the 
risks and kids too young
to realize that they are
not invincible, the con-
sequences can be severe,
or fatal.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

children to strap on
and run each other

ers developing chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), a debilitating
neurological condition, during the latter stages of their lives. The disorder arises from an accumulation
of concussions sustained over multiple NFL seasons.

As research reveals more worrying results, certain ex-players like Kurt Wamer—who suffered many
concussions during his playing days—say they will not allow their children to play football. Others re-
mark that had they known the severity of harm football could do to their bodies, they may have pursued
a different career.

Criticism of the game, the league’s rules and education of players has notably come from these play-
ers rather than fans. While supporters may hate to see their favorite players from the past struggle to
complete interviews because their short-term memory is so impaired, they also want to see their favorite
sport playedevery Sunday in all its glory. That is, fans love crunching blocks, ferocious tackles, and
players carrying on despite injury.

Football is a game for warriors, and America’s obsession with it conveys a tacit approval of the harm-
ful circumstances to which players expose themselves each week. Fans ultimately reinforce the violent
nature of the game, because rule changes that might reduce some of the game’s physicality would turn
them off from the sport. Big hits are big business, and the league wants to keep fans happy with its
product. ”

Rule changes to protect quarterbacks and receivers running across the middle of the ﬁeld have helped
reduce the risk of injury for some players. More cushioned helmets have also helped reduce the likeli-
hood of concussions. Protective legislation and technological improvements, however, can only go so
far to protect players when violence remains an essential element of football.

The NFL needs to address its problems by increasing awareness. Just as people who smoke now do
so with full understanding of the perils, players need to be fully aware of football’s detrimental effects.
The beneﬁts will outweigh the risks for some, but the scientiﬁc ﬁndings that keep arising need to be more
transparent.

Players and fans can also help the issue by changing the NFL’s culture. Many analysts who used to
play in the league explain the pressure on players to play through injuries or rush back from major opera-
tions. The body needs time to heal properly. Perhaps empirical evidence showing the beneﬁts of full
rest and recovery will help justify players who choose to sit out with a concussion instead of returning to
the gridiron and risking further injury. ,

While overhauling the game to protect players makes sense, the reality is that most fans and players
relish the sport’s physicality too much for it to go away. Officials, then, must continue to look aﬁer play-
ers left in vulnerable situations, make more improvements to players’ equipment, increase the awareness
of potentially debilitating cumulative injuries, and help players become morehonest evaluators of their
own health.

Generals can’t control Eagles

W&L gives up nine to open the second half

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee fell to Mary Washington
16-8 in the opening round of the NCAA touma-
ment on Wednesday.

The Generals jumped out to an early 4-1 lead on
two unassisted goals by senior Christina Benedetti.

The Eagles were able to respond and closed the
gap. The Generals were up 6-5 entering halftime’.

Mary Washington came out in the second half
ﬁghting. They, scored nine unanswered goals.
W&L was unable to score until Benedetti scored
unassisted with 5:12 remaining in the game.

Senior Catherine Kennedy of Mary Washington
scored four goals during the streak. Kennedy led
the way for the Eagles with a game-high ﬁve goals
and a game-high three assists. Senior Lauren Cal-
lison added three goals while three players each
scored two for the Eagles.

One of the biggest differences between the ﬁrst
and second half for W&L was turnovers. The Gen-

erals turned the ball over just four times in the ﬁrst
half, one less than the Eagles. In the second half
alone W&L turned the ball over ten times.

The turnover discrepancy allowed for Mary
Washington to take more shots as well. In the ﬁrst
half both teams attempted 12 shots on goal. In the
second half Mary Washington outshot the Generals
by eight. Mary Washington was able to attempt 17
shots compared to W&L’s 9.

In addition, Benedetti led the way for the Gen-
erals with a team-high three goals. Sophomores
Meade Brewster and Margaret Klein each contrib-
uted two goals.

With the loss the Generals are done for the sea-
son. They ﬁnished with a 15-5 record with an Old
Dominion Athletic Conference championship title.

Mary Washington fell to Cortland 12-5 in the
second round game. The Eagles ﬁnished their sea-
son with a 14-4 record.

”Pure Eats is
Lexington’s newest
slice of heaven.”

107 N Main Street
46H000

-The Washington Post (12/30/11)

Premium local burgers, fresh doughnuts,
fries, Homestead Creamery milk shakes,
daily soups and stews...on|y the good stuff.

facebookxom/PureEatsYum

for menu updates and news

coming soon: beer!

. , .1;

Christina Benedetti looks to passithe ball

COURESY OF GENERALSSPORTS.CO

   

8 ' THE RINVG-TUM PHI -

MONDAY, MAY 14, 2012

sports

 

in the numbers

41

The total number oftennis titles that Serena Williams has
won after defeating Victoria Azarenka 6-1, 6-3 in the MA-

drld Open on Saturday.

4

The total number of home runs that Texas Ranger Josh Ham-
llton hit in a game versus the Baltimore Orioles on Tuesday.

He is just the 16th player in MLB history to do so.

85

The total number of ﬁrst-place votes out of 121 that LeBron
James received in the NBA MVP voting. 120 votes come
from a panel of sportswriters who cover the league and
1 vote comes from fans on NBA.com. His point total was

1,074. Kevin Durat of the Oklahoma City Thunder came in

second with 889 points.

44.

The total number of years since Manchester city won their
last English football title before defeating the Queens Park
Rangers 3-2 on Sunday. They scored 2 goals in stoppage

time in a comeback victory.

 

soapbox

“This is a team game and I wouldn't be
receiving what I've received in the past and
now in the present without my teammates
and without my family and friends who've
helped me to this point.”

-MlamlHeutLeBronJamesallarwlnnln¢h|sthIrdoareor
NBAMalVﬂumhFhuuuu¢

“It does not help that ESPN has all of the
sudden become Medical TV with damn

near every brain expert on the planet...
Since no one is showing any support, I
ﬁgured I would be the ﬁrst.”

-NavEn¢andPtrulotcludOclioolnooInaluuartnNFL
ounmhduurﬂqaraaublehahﬂandunhFLhwobu

umrmoﬁrdnanmmunhduuﬂnunﬂamnoqndﬂu
dmnhmmrsumkannnmuhﬂe

CONGRATULATIONS TO TAMARA MORSE AND

CAMILLE COBB FOR BEING SELECTED

INTERCOLLEGIATE HORSE SHOW ASSOCIATION
NAITONAL ACADEMIC AWARD WINNERS

ondeck

 

Women’s Tennis

W&L can’t make magic happen twice

Generals come from behind in ﬁrst round of N CAAs but can’t in second

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

20th ranked Washington and Lee was able
to come back from a 3-0 deﬁcit to win 5-3
against University of Texas-Tyler in the open-
ing round of the NCAA tournament on Friday.

The duos of junior Hayden White and
ﬁrst-year Taylor Shamshiri, and seniors Mac
Davis and Brian Roberts lost to sophomore
Ryan Spencer and junior Kevin Singer, plus
sophomore Doug Kierstead and ﬁrst-year
Joey Hendrie, respectively, 8-5. The doubles
team of seniors Jeremy Becht and Ben Fass
were "almost able to reduce the gap but lost in
a tie-break 9-8 (7-5) to senior Kevin Wright
and ﬁrst-year Robert Hodous.

But the Generals turned the match around
in singles competition. Shamshiri quickly de-
feated Singer 6-2, 6-0 to open singles compe-
tition. White followed suit by defeating Spen-

cer 6—1, 6-1. Fass was able to ﬁnally tie the
score up by defeating Wright 6-2, 6-2.

W&L’s ﬁrst lead of the day came when
Roberts defeated Houdous 6-0, 3-6, 6-0. The
victory came in the next competition as Becht
came back from losing the ﬁrst set to defeat
Wright 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.

Sadly, W&L was unable to make the same
comeback against second ranked Emory Uni-
versity on Saturday. They lost 5-0.

Eagles junior Elliot Kahler and ﬁrst-year
lan Wagner teamed up to defeat‘Becht and
Fass 8-2. Senior Dillon Pottish and ﬁrst-year
Brian Kowalski then defeated Davis and
Roberts 8-3. Seniors Chris Goodwin and Will

Humphreys finished off doubles play for the_

Eagles by defeating the duo of White and
Shamshiri.

Wagner opened up singles play by defeat-
ing Becht 6-3 ,6-1 to bring the Eagles within
one match of moving on in the tournament.
Pottish sealed victory for the Eagles when he
defeated White 6- 1 , 6-2.

With the victory Emory advanced to Sun-
day’s Regional Finals. ‘

W&L is out of the tournament, ending their
season. They ﬁnished with a 16-5 record.

White will continue his season when he
competes in the NCAA singles tournament in
Cary, N.C. beginning on May 24.

Gennies cruise in NCAAs

W&L easily defeats Ohio Northern in second round after losing the first

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Women’s tennis won in the second round of
the NCAA tournament.

After receiving a goodbye in the ﬁrst round
of the tournament, Washington and Lee faced
off with Ohio Northern on Saturday.

But once the match was moved to Emory
University’s indoor facilities due to the rain,
the Generals easily defeated the Polar Bears.
The ﬁnal score was 5-0.

The doubles pair of ﬁrst-years Sonja
Meighan and Meghan Buell defeated sopho-
mores Lauren Rife and Carly Olmstead 8-0 to
open up the match. W&L never looked back.
First-year Patricia Kirkland and sophomore
Cameron Dorsey defeated ﬁrst-years Brittany
Miller and Kristin Cellentani 8-4 and seniors

Lauren Lukas and Trelsie Sadler defeated e i

sophomore Michelle Tuma and junior Christie
Gales 8-3.

The Generals did not slow down once
singles play began. Buell easily defeated Ol-

Senior Lauren‘ Lukas returning a cross-court shot

mstead 6-0, 6-1. Lukas securedthe victory for
the Generals when she defeated Tuma 6- 1 , 6-1.

 

T .

COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTS. OMO

Two more win NCAA postgrad awards

Stirling and Washnock join Lawson as NCAA Postgraduate Scholarship recipients

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Seniors Brian Stirling and Chris Washnock
were among 29 scholar—athletes from all three
divisions who earned the prestigious NCAA
Postgraduate Scholarship -this winter.

Stirling and Washnock join soccer player

Kat Lawson, who was a recipient in the fall. 9

Never before has Washington and Lee had
three winners in the same year. According to
a W&L press release, they become three of 36
athletes who have been given the award since
1970.

Stirling has earned All-American honors
ﬁve times, and served as the team captain his
senior year. Stirling additionally holds three
school records. He also holds the 100 butterﬂy
record with a time of 49.07 and was a part of

both the 200 and 400 medley record squads.

In the classroom, Stirling is a neuroscience
major and has earned the status of a W&L ath-
lete this past semester with a GPA of above
3.5.

Moreover, Washnock has earned All-
American honors five times. He served with
Stirling as a team captain this past season. At
the Bluegrass Mountain Conference Champi-
onships he placed third in the 200 back with a
time of 1:49.51.

Washnock is a 2011 Capital One Third
Team Academic All-American honoree. He is
also was one of 19 W&L student athletes to
boast a 4.0 GPA this past winter semester.

Lawson has been named a ﬁrst team All-

American on two occasions, the ﬁrst General
to achieve. that feat. She also served as team
captain her senior year.

Lawson plans to use the money to help pay
for med school.

NCAA Postgraduate Scholarships are
awarded each of the three sports seasons. 29
men and 29 women are awarded a single grant
of $7,500 for each season. Overall, 87 men
and 87 women are awarded each year.

W&L wins Wooldridgecup  

Generals take home the awardfor the ninth straight year

By Leigh Dannhauser
SRORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee just beat out 1-_\'nch-
burg to \\in the 2012 Wooldridge (‘up. The
Wooldridge (‘up is presented to the institution
in the Old Dominion Athletic ('onference \\ ho
has the best overall athletic program.

"Points for the (‘ommissioner‘s (‘up are
based on regular season standings in team
sports and championship team linishes in in-
di\ idual sports,“ according to an ()l)l\(‘ press
release earl_\‘ last \\’ee\. The total number of

;Tuesday

Wednesday

points earned is then divided by the total nuin-
ber ofpossible points in order to come up \\ ith
a ranking for each institution.“

W&L stood on top ofthe overall standings
\\ ith a rating of 0.733. L_Vnchburg was not
\*cr_\ far behind with a rating of 0.714.

W&L won the \\romen”s ranki as for the
ninth time in a row as well. The (‘
a rating of 0.788. L_\'nchburg ﬁnished second
\\ ith 0.71’-'l.

Thursday

W&L placed third behind L_\,-‘nchburg and
Randolph-Macon in the men‘s rankings. The
Hornets had a rating of 0.714 while the Yel-
lo\\~ Jackets had a rating of 0.685. The Geh-
erals Iinished close behind with a rating of
0.670.

Throughout the course of the year. W&L
\\ on ()1)/\C Championship titles in \\'0lllC|1iS
s\\imming. men's and \\’omen‘s tennis. and -
\\‘omen‘s lacrosse.

 

Saturday

Sunday ‘_,

 

Men's Lacrosse

Baseball

Men's Tennis

 H4NP 3 %

Track

10/B9/12 Isaqs.

E
-, . Jug. :water Last Chance

Golf

Women’s Lacrosse

 

M

