 

j ,  I   oPrNroNs/pagez 

  

Confused? It's Morsecode for”Phi.”Just  
read the back page, you'll understand.

SPORTS / page 6

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

‘THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MAY 7, 2012

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS

SINCE

1897

VOLUME CXV, NUMBER 19

Bent talks Da Vinci and anatomy

Professor George Bent explains how Leonardo da Vinci was both an artist and a scientist

ByTommy Kent
STAFF wmrea

Professor George Bent discussed how
Da Vinci’s artistic ability beneﬁted from
his study of anatomy, and vice versa last
Wednesday in the Northen Auditorium.

Bent, an Art History Professor at
Washington and Lee, gave the Sidney
Gauss Childress Professorship Inaugural
Lecture entitled, “Art into Science, Sci-
ence into Art:

who attended with his family.

In the lecture, Bent emphasized how
Da Vinci’s virtuosity in the arts and deep
scientiﬁc knowledge were never—before-
seen complements when applied to ana-
tomical studies in that time.

Da Vinci, according to Bent, was a
famous artist whose services were cov-
eted for personal enjoyment. Among his

2*’ patrons, Da Vinci served Ludovico, the
/’ Duke of Milan, for 17 years, paint-

\

.... "

Leonardo da Vinci and the Body.”
This professorship, W&L’s ﬁrst dedi-
cated solely to the arts, was established
through a gift by J. Donald Childress ’70

  

\ ing “The Last Supper” and
\ others, sculpting, design-
ing buildings, improving
sanitation and hygiene in
the city, creating weap-
ons of mass destruc-
tion, and beginning

\ his initial study of

human anatomy.

Bent, referring

to Da Vinci as the

/ “left-handed bastard”

1 (as. he was born out
of wedlock), said that

Da Vinci’s “anatomi-

/ cal studies were so ef-
 fective because he was an
 artist.” Bent said Da Vin-
ci’s gifts as a scientist also

~ alluded [his followers].

Da Vinci, according to

Bent, worked in a Flor-

ence hospital in I500 and spent hours
studying, meeting patients, and think-
ing about the hospital’s mission. At one
point, Da Vinci conducted an autopsy

on the body of a I00-year-old man and
discovered the cause of death to be hard-
ening of the arteries, allegedly the ﬁrst
diagnosis of arteriosclerosis. Bent esti-
mated that Da Vinci conducted at least
30 autopsies throughout his life. Not
only that, but apparently to get a good
understanding of an organ or section of
the body Da Vinci believed cutting from
the front, side and back was necessary.

Da Vinci’s foray into the study of
human anatomy was extraordinary for
many reasons. Bent said, “Autopsies
and human dissections weren’t all that
common in Christian Europe. Even on
the rare occasion when dissection was
recorded for posterity, it was not for edu-
cation but to record who it was and what
portion of the event.”

Additionally, Bent said that ﬁrst,
Christians did not condone cutting up
corpses, and no physician had been
trained to draw with any kind of ﬂuency.
The promary reason forced Da Vinci
to abandon his anatomical studies for
good when a German spy reported his
work to the Pope during the period from
l5l3-l5l6 that Da Vinci was working in
Rome. The second did not apply to Da
Vinci who had unmatched artistic skill.

Throughout the lecture, Bent showed
several detailed anatomical drawings by
Da Vinci, including the heart, the skull,
and muscles in the arms. sex organs. and
even a fetus in the uterus, the ﬁrst of
such kind and signifying that he had cut
into a pregnant woman, “something just

not done in [Da Vinci’s] day,” said Bent.

Bent said that Da Vinci believed his
drawings could help educate physicians
without putting them at risk of persecu-
tion and that they would enable detailed
study instead of only ﬂeeting study dur-
ing an actual autopsy. Da Vinci’s adage,
“the only way to know something was to
ﬁnd it out yourself”, followed in his ac-
tions and boundless curiosity. Bent said
that Da Vinci, among many other things,
wondered about the science of reproduc-
tion and thought about the spinal cord
and the head. Bent also said, “We can
see that the engineer in him saw that the
arm worked by pulley systems.”

Bent said that Da Vinci rejected the
notion that he was either one or the oth-
er: artist or scientist. Bent said, “He was
one of the most important interdisciplin-
ary thinkers in history.”

Bent showed the concurrent influence
of art on Da Vinci’s anatomical explora-
tions and of his study of anatomy on his
art, by explaining how Da Vinci’s por-
traits and depictions of the human body
became more sophisticated and real af-
ter he had worked to understand human
anatomy. According to Bent, Da Vinci,
who believed that the two objectives
of the artist were to show the outward
appearance of human beings and to re-
veal intention and intellectual motives,
“found the key to represent the human
ﬁgure so accurately.”

He went on to elaborate that “The art-
ist painterly style began to shift after an-

79

atomical studies. By showing Da Vin-
ci’s painting titled “St. Jerome Praying
in the Wilderness”, Bent exhibited how
Da Vinci’s understanding of anatomy
allowed him to satisfy not only the art-
ist’s ﬁrst objective, but also the second:
“straining muscles” can give a glimpse
into the inner motives of the ﬁgure.

Da Vinci’s “anatomical fidelity”
makes the painting “that much more be-
lievable and that much more powerful.”
explained Bent. “It causes the features
to strike us more dramatically. Figures
began to become representations of all
humanity.”

Essentially, the painter, mathema-
tician, engineer, and scientist within
Da Vinci all worked together to create
“breathtakingly beautiful” works of art.
Bent said, “The history of art was altered
by Da Vinci’s scientiﬁc gifts. The his-
tory of science was jumpstarted by Da
Vinci’s artistic gifts.”

In closing, Bent said, “The body is a
microcosm that matches the broader uni-
verse all around us. Leonardo da Vinci
provided the ﬁrst real window into the
universe that each one of us has within
us.”

Barth discusses concussions

Dr Jeﬂrey Barth describes what scientists need to do to better understand how to treat concussions

By Graham Colton
STAF F WRITE R

Last Wednesday, Dr. Jeffrey T. Barth
spoke on “Sports and Combat Concus-
sion: Assessment, Intervention, and Re-
turn to Play/Duty.”

A member of the National Football
League Players Association Mackey-
White Traumatic Brain Injury Commit-
tee and Director of the University of
Virginia’s Neurocognitive Assessment
Laboratory, Barth said that scientists
must “think, observe, and talk with peo-
ple” about concussions to provide better
treatment for concussed athletes and sol-
diers.

Citing his research from the 1982
Wall Street Journal article, “Mild Head
Injury: The Silent Epidemic,” Barth fo-

« cused ﬁrst on assessing concussions. In

addition to conﬁision, nausea, or vomit,
concussed persons may show more se-
vere, long-terrn symptoms like retro-
grade amnesia and/or posttraumatic am-
nesia. Whereas a retrogradevamnesiac
forgets events preceding the concussion,
Barth said, a posttraumatic amnesiac
cannot begin to remember post-concus-
sion events until the amnesia subsides.
In an experiment early in his career,
Barth tested primatesto determine the
extent of “axonal degeneration induced

by experimental noninvasive minor head
injury.” Replicating high-speed col-
lisions on the football ﬁeld, some pri-
mates wore helmets that “would...move
forward very quickly and stop,” said
Barth. Others did not. All of the pri-
mates’ brains, however, looked normal.

Later in his professional life, Barth
and his colleagues at UVA started using
Sports as a Laboratory Assessment Mod-
el (SLAM) to, as Dr. Barth said, “focus
on concussion as a laboratory for clinical
research.” By applying mild traumatic
brain injury (MTBI) research to the gen-
eral population, Barth sought to establish
“baseline neurocognitive assessments in
sports.” After testing 2,350 players from
ten universities, he found that “healthy,
young, motivated athletes” exhibited
“cognitive deﬁcits...aﬁer a very mild
concussion.”

Conﬁrmed by later high school, col-
legiate, and professional studies nation-
wide, Barth and his research team found
that it typically takes between three to
ten days to recover from only a mild
concussion.

Directly, after a concussion, Barth
recommended that athletic trainers use
a Standardized Assessment of Concus-

sions (SAC) test to correctly diagnose
symptoms. As well as proposing three
computerized assessments of accelera-
tion-deceleration concussions, Barth of-
fered three scales to grade the severity of
a concussion.

The retum—to-play decision, though,
is less certain. “In this era of evidence-
based medicine,” Barth said, “those who
must make critical retum—to-play deci-
sions are left in the unenviable position
of choosing between scientism or poten-
tial charlatanism.” In other words, when
deciding if and when an athlete should
return to play, the athletic trainer must
strike a balance between protecting the
athlete’s well-being and returning her/
him to the ﬁeld of play.

These difﬁcult decisions are further
complicated by second-impact syndrome
(SIS), a “catastrophic increase in intra-
cranial pressure due to dysfunction of
autoregulation of cerebral circulation.”
SIS “most often occurs in athletes less
than 24-years-old” who have sustained a
“prior concussion following a relatively
minor second impact.”

Similarly, players in high-contact
sports such as football and boxing are
especially prone to Chronic Traumatic

U

Encephalopathy (CTE), which is a “de-
generative neurological condition” that,
like SIS, afflicts adolescent athletes. If
competitors overlook SIS and CTE by
returning to play too early, then they
risk reactive depression, sub-concussive
blows, and acute and chronic cognitive
deﬁcits.

Although he said that there are not
any hard-and-fast rules to concussion
treatment, Barth displayed a diagram of
the Xenith football helmet, an innovative
measure to prevent MTBIS. In this hel-
met, he stated, there are “essentially air-
bags [that] have a valve in the bottom, so
that when they...are compressed down,
they can go all the way down because
there’s a nozzle that lets the air out.”

Despite the doubt clouding retum—to-
play decisions, medical scientists at least
know the effects of an initial MTBI.
First, according to Barth, a “single un-
complicated concussion often results in
acute neurocognitive and balance deﬁ-
cits.” Second, he said that “the risk [for
another concussion]...increases three to
six-fold” after the ﬁrst concussion.

In his closing remarks, Barth ad-
dressed the even greater dangers from
concussions that soldiers face at war. By

causing primary, tertiary, and quaternary

injuries, blasts from Improvised Explo-
sive Devices (IEDS) result in complica-
tions “very different than what we see in
sports injuries,” including but not limited
to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
and complex neurocognitive damage.

Notwithstanding accurate assessment
or interventions like rest, observation,
and information provision, a concussion
suffered on the battleﬁeld--like one on
the gridiron--cannot be treated like any
other before it. Instead, healthcare pro-
fessionals must “get comfortable with
ambiguity,” Barth said. “Every player is
different and decisions should be made
by the medical/athletic training staff
(and the player), taking individual his-
tory into account,” he said.

 

 

 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MAY 7,2012

opinions

 

All downhill after

Annie Persons suggests that students approach life after graduation

During a
class discussion
this afternoon,
my professor
offhandedly
mentioned that
she believed
adulthood
had been the
best years of
her life so far.
Time stood still
for a moment
as my fellow

we

 

At ’ -s' .1» 
Bynnnie Persons
HEAD cor-r EDITOR

things and I

exchanged ex-
pressions of mingled shock and amuse-
ment that can only happen amongst stu-
dents in a classroom. You know, that look
that says, “Okayyyyyy.” Clearly picking
up on this, our professor explained that
she enjoyed her 205, but found that life

early 20-some- ‘

actually “peaked when [she] hit 30.”
Now, when was the last time you
heard someone say that? In my experi-
ence it has been the opposite; I recall
countless relatives at my high school
graduation luncheon approaching me in
their cloudy mid—aftemoon buzz to la-
ment how lucky I was to be starting col-

away from home in a bubble of essen-
tially endless opportunities for fun and
enjoyment. I think we can all agree that
college is the perfect amalgam of just
enough responsibility to make you feel
as though you have a purpose, but also
not enough stress to hinder any shenani-
gans or general merriment that may arise

Like the old adage, “attitude is everything’

)

who

says college ever has to end?

lege, how these next four years would
be the absolute best of my life, etc. etc.
And, well, given my experiences fresh-
man year, I can’t say I blame them. Sure,
the work has been tough at times (some-
times really tough), but the big picture
is that few things are better than living

to punctuate your school work. Put more
simply, I live in a big building ﬁlled with
my best friends and no adults. Oh, and
class can be pretty interesting sometimes
too.

Clearly, then, Professor .Wheeler is
just an outlier. “How could adulthood

51”

possibly be better than college?,” I asked
myself resolutely, mentally shivering as
the beast of looming adulthood reared
his ugly head in my direction.

But then I started thinking...maybe
it isn’t about where you are in life, but
how you act about where you are. Like
the old adage, “attitude is everything”-—
who says college ever has to end? Now,
don’t get me wrong, I’m not suggest-
ing that you treat your future business
cocktail parties as the perfect setting to
throw back a few shots and start a game
of shandies. What I am saying is that you
treat the rest of your life with the same
attitude you treat your life in college.
For example, by accepting responsibil-
ity, but not taking the stupid stuff too se-
riously. Knowing what is and_what isn’t
stupid stuff when it comes to academics

or your job. Knowing the difference be-‘

tween a night when you should go out
and let loose, and a night when you

aduation?  

e same way that they approach life in college

should stay in with your friends, hus-
band/wife, or even a good movie. Know-
ing how to go out and let loose without
caring what other people think, but also
knowing how to maintain a good repu-
tation. Taking your superiors (professor,
boss, etc.) seriously, but with a grain of
salt—they’re human too. Taking life se-
riously, but not too seriously.

Put another way: a few nights ago
,my friend handed me a curly pink straw
to use in my drink. I couldn’t help but
exclaim, “Wow, this really tastes better
through a bendy straw!” ...and it was
true. Let your attitude about life be a
bendy straw. Sip things slowly, enjoy
them, ﬁnd the fun in life. Let growing
up and graduating be about ﬁnding your
bendy straw to make the rest of your
days, not just your 203, taste a little bet-
ter.

How to write an opinions article

Senior Stockton Bullitt, former Opinions Editor and columnist extraordinaire, oﬂers advice in his ﬁnal contribution

When I read
Georgia Rob-
ertson’s opin-

ions article on
Greek fratemi—
ties on campus,
I was incensed.
Yes, it has been
a while since I
have written a
quality article
for the Phi, and
yes, I am in a
somewhat com-
promised posi-
tion to write a
fraternity review column. But still, the
whole fraternity review spiel was kind
of my thing. Therefore, I could not have
been more delighted to see the onslaught
of criticism this column took. Georgia
did not say anything original, nor did she
actually do anything libelous, so why
were students, parents and alumni (okay,
it seemed to only be students speaking
for parents and alumni, but I’ll just throw
them in there) so enraged at the publica-
tion of this speciﬁclcolumn? Seriously, I
wrote about the quality of the Four Loco,
the merits of pledgeship and argued that
the J-School is erroneous, and l’ve only
gotten two or three Letters to the Editor.
This chick gets a whole issue of the Phi
dedicated completely to her plagiarized
idea. What gives?

As I re-read the column, I started to

   

 Stu-clcto miin
CDLUHNIST

so much. The article is an example of in-
credibly bad writing. Georgia Robertson
may go to a liberal arts school, but her
composition leaves much to be desired.
So, as a response, I thought I would tell
Georgia, and anyone else who is inter-
ested, how to actually write a quality
opinions article for The Ring-tum Phi.

there was hardly a real opinion in the en-
tire article. Oh, Fiji has nice guys. Great!
Everyone already knows that. This is the
main reason why so many people were
so mad at the article. Georgia wasn’t
clever enough to think of ways that these
stereotypes play out in everyday lives,
nor did she think that the W&L commu-

Yes, we would all like to be Owen Wilson ﬂom
“Marley and Me, "’ but we really don ’t own that
many pets and our personal lives aren ’t that inter-

esting to other people.

This is not a complete list of how to
write; instead, it’s more of a list of guide-
lines to think about while writing an arti-
cle for The Ring-tum Phi. Make sure that
you do not use these guidelines for any-
thing else besides writing an opinions ar-
ticle forThe Ring-tum Phi, because they
don’t work in many other circumstances.

To prepare, I re-read every single
opinions article in the year 2012. I did
this because I am running the Spring
Term option, and frankly, my life is rath-
er boring once you take out the alcohol.
Interestingly, I did not ﬁnd as much dirt
as I would have hoped. Lately, the qual-
ity of writing in the opinions section has
gotten better and not worse. As a former
opinions editor, trust me, we were much
worse a few years ago, mostly because I
was committing many of the faux pas I

realize why everyone loathed the column

WASHINGTON AND LEE Uxwuzsnr

THE RING-TUM PHI.

outline later in the
article.

The main thing
to remember when

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR
SPORTS EDITOR

HEAD COPY EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

COPY EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEIL HAGGERTY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
ANNIE PERSONS

STOCKTON BULLITT
TOMMY KENT
GABRIELLE TREMO

ELIZABETH CHRISTIAN
GRAHAM COLTON
KELLY MCMANUS

MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON

DILLON MYERS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
-to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@w|u.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staffl. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

writing an opin-
ion’s article is to
think about the
reader. Yes, you
should already
know this, but just
in case you didn’t,
this is critical to
writing opinions.
The Phi is dis-
tributed to certain
people who all
feel certain ways
about the school.
You are pandering
to them, not the
other way around.
So, onto the ten

BRIAN SIMPSON guidelines!
KANE THOMAS 1, Actually
Have an Opinion
This is the most
important guide-

line. Opinions are
NOT news. They
are views on what
people already
know about. Take
a stance and de-
fend the stance.
That is literally all
you need to do for
every opinions ar-
ticle. Unfortunate-
ly, this approach is
taken barely more
than half the time
in The Ring-tum
Phi. Writers get so
bogged down in
the “what” of their
articles that they
lose the “why.”
Looking at the
fraternity article,

nity was smart enough to already know
that these stereotypes exist. That’s why
she found it incumbent upon herself to
enlighten the community who is who.
Everyone was so pissed because a) they
already know who is who and b) there
is nothing new or interesting about read-
ing something you already know when
it’s presented in a straightforward fash-
ion. Georgia should have taken what she
knows about those stereotypes and used
them in some kind of comedic fashion.

Also, most articles that I tend to like
both read and write are ones that take un-
common opinions. We all know that girls
like Pinterest and Twitter contains many
narcissists, but I tend to like opinions
that go the other direction and take the
road less traveled. It usually makes for
a better read.

2. Minimize Your Own Life’s Story

Readers of the Ring Tum Phi prefer
anecdotes to stories. Just because the
Opinion writer is allowed to use the word
“I” in a story, this does not mean that he
or she should make the whole opinion
about him or herself. The reader does not
care about the personal life of the writer
unless it serves to prove a greater point.
Yes, we would all like to be Owen Wil-
son from “Marley and Me,” but we real-
ly don’t own that many pets and our per-
sonal lives aren’t that interesting to other
people. If the story is self-deprecating,
then maybe you can extend the story, but
for the most part, people hate the articles
that are simply vehicles to tell one’s own
life story. By doing that, you are making
the article about yourself, and the article
is always about the reader. ‘ I

Likewise, never talk about the actual
process of writing the opinion article. If
your intro has something along the lines
of “As I sat at my computer thinking of
what to write...” you should just transfer
to Roanoke College and accept that you
will always be on a lower intelligence
level than the majority of W&L students.

3. Boys are Different than Girls

Glad we got that out of the way.

By the way, it is not an embarrass-
ment to girls that a girl wrote an article
about fraternities. Betty Friedan is not
turning over in her grave because some-
one took a big swing and a miss. Geor-
gia, like many other people on campus,
just did not recognize the social norms
governing our institution. For example,
I can never nor will I ever write a soror-
ity review article. Does it have anything
to do with gender equality on campus?
Hell no. Guys and girls at W&L and ev-
erywhere for that matter are inherently
equal. That’s just the deal. We wrote it
a couple hundred years ago on a piece
of paper and qualiﬁed it somewhat a
hundred years ago. But, girls are differ-
ent than guys. Frats don’t watch El, and
srats don’t watch Spike. Not that tough.

You can write articles making fun of fra-
ternities because that’s mostly carefree
and fun, but when you do the same thing
with sororities, problems tend to occur.

Lastly, speaking as a male, can we
please cut down on the number of fash-
ion opinion articles that come out every
week? Hearing about problems with
Barbour and leggings is like hearing
women defend Khloe Kardashian. I’m
just asking.

4. How to Curse

There is a certain mindset you need to
use with cursing when writing an opin-
ions article. The readers of The Ring-
tum Phi are mostly college students or
adults trying to tap into the mindset of
college students, so, when writing, you
must sound like a college student be-
cause your readers want the vernacular.
If they did not want the vernacular, they
would buy the “Wall Street Journal.” So,
make sure you throw in some shits and
douche bags just to appease the masses.
Otherwise, I don’t really like throwing
them in there if I can avoid it (I usually
can’t). Listen to what your professors
say,_ using a curse word just shows that
you lack the vocabulary and imagination
to use a proper word. So, stop being so
damned shitty with your thoughts, and
make sure you deﬁnitely avoid using the
f-bomb.

5. BEAT AROUND THE BUSH

Seriously, Georgia? I know that what
you did wasn’t illegal, but you directly
called groups of people predators, drug
users, homosexual, and douche bags. If
you or I did that at a party, there would
be bad consequences, like getting pushed
under Traveller consequences. That is to
say, there are predators, drug users and
douche bags on campus (there are also
homosexuals but lumping someone’s
sexuality with three bad things seems
pretty unfair), but they do not need to be
labeled in a public setting. So, instead of
pointing and shouting so everyone can
hear, Georgia should have done what
most writers do and that’s hide behind
someone’s back, refer to an indiscretion,
make a connection and snicker. In the lit-
erary world, they call this allusion. The
entire mess could have been avoided by
referencing stereotypes without directly
acknowledging them. ,

6. Appease Both Sides of W&L

W&L has two sets of students: stu-
dents who buy into the game of frater-
nities, sororities and the chutes and lad-
ders that accompany them and students
who aren’t godless heathens celebrating
a four-year Bacchanalia. Now, that may
be a bit of an exaggeration, but that is
not to say that those two sets of people
do not exist and that they have very dif-
ferent expectations from their opinions
articles. Many fraternity and sorority
members likewise are not into the “Who
is the best Greek member/afﬁliation?”
debate. These constituencies need to be
addressed and accurately critiqued if you

_ are going to write a fraternity or sorority

article (just kidding, you should never
write a sorority article).

And for that matter, appease the W&L
moms. Easily the most avid, intelligent
and beautiful readers associated with
The Ring-tum Phi (Did I mention they
have checkbooks?), the W&L moms
need to be considered when writing an
opinions article for The Ring-tum Phi.
You don’t need to think, “Will my moth-
er read this?” when writing an article be-
cause odds are she might, and she prob-
ably won’t care if you mention alcohol.’

But throw in a couple of mom jokes here
and there, like mentioning why there are
so many 29-year-old sisters coming to
campus on Parent’s Weekend, and you
will go far in life.

7. Keep in Mind that You Attend
W&L

This is a very socially conscious
school and putting your name on an ar-
ticle is a pretty ballsy move as is, but
people are going to remember what you
say about them, especially if it’s nega-
tive. Likewise, they will remember what
you say if you are unfairly positive about
a certain group of people. Since this isn’t
that groundbreaking of a topic, I’ll just
let this carry into the next guideline...

8. Live in Reality
From the fraternity article by Georgia
R.:

“While there are a fair share of jerks
in any frat, Beta seems to keep a low
concentration while still maintaining
fun party guys who aren’t overly cocky,
weird or nerdy.”

“I honestly could name probably
two Sig Eps and have never attended
or known someone who has attended a
party.”

“ till, you will be hard pressed to ﬁnd
a socially awkward Phi Psi.”

I think that pretty much covers it.

9. You are NOT a Deep Person

The articles that people tend to hate
most in the opinions section are the ones
that talk down to their readers. Geor-
gia made this problem by thinking that
people didn’t already know stereotypes
about fraternities, but it gets much worse.
Let’s be clear aboutone thing: no more
poems. What can be explained in broken
clauses with weird line breaks about how
much it sucks to be in a bad relationship
can surely be explained using full sen-
tences.and paragraphs. A poem is not
an opinion. It is an artistic expression
that should be in the Shenandoah. Fur-
thermore, make inside jokes that every-
one can understand. You will get much
further with your readers if you refer-
ence LeBron or Don Draper, not Imelda
Marcos. I mean, really? Imelda Marcos.
C’mon. By keeping the jokes and refer-
ences simple, the article will be more ac-
cessible and will actually get read.

Furthermore, do not cliche up the
place when your cliches don’t really
work. This election is not “one for the
history books” nearly as much as 2008,
2000, 1992, 1980, 1960, etc. Also, obvi-
ously this election is going in the history
books because every election goes into
the history books.

10. Grammar Gets You Laid

‘ “One last thing: Coke” is as atrocious
a sentence as you can get. Not only does
it royally piss off a boatload of people,
but it is also a fragment, a wrongly capi-
talized word and a raping of the colon,

.one of our most virginal punctuation

marks.

Make sure you follow Vampire
Weekend’s advice on the Oxford com-
ma.’ It is not used when writing articles
in newspapers. If you read enough of my
articles, you will notice that I learned
this about halfway through my career at
W&L. It’s a nice thing to know.

.So, Georgia and everyone else inter-
ested in writing opinions for the Ring-
tum Phi, use these guidelines wisely.
Fracois Hollande listened to me, and
look where he is.

 

  

  
  
  

  

MONDAY, MAY], 2012' 3 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

oinions

   

This year is a big one for The Phi, as all of our editorial staﬂ are entering their ﬁrst
years as editors. We thought it would be a good Chance to introduce the fabulous

0 people who run your school paper, so say hello to 2012 3* editorial staff, as brought
to you via F acebook [I ’m a pro stalker! ] xoxo julianna

Biochemistry and anthro.po,1ogy_ double major ;
Likes: Dom Mazzetti,New.York Giants, Audrey Hepburn, Blue Oyster Cult,
Rodeos, Oxford Commas, mannequins, spray paint, and frozen peas.

Journalism and politicsdguble majplr

Likes: Mock Con, Christmas Trees, tuxedos, people from
A New Jersey, real pizza and photo-bombing.

: inions

Business administration major; creative writing minor
Likes: Mitt Romney Central, J .J . Redick, “The Graduate,” Leland Yacht Club,
Michael Kors, leopard—print ballet ﬂats and hashtags.

‘In . Arts & Life

a

English and business administration double major; creative Writing minor
Likes: Glamour Magazine, Macintosh Apples, caution tape, romantic
comedies, "memes and laughing until you can’t breathe.

    nme mom

for English major; creative writing and
journalism double minor
Likes: Goo Goo Dolls, Harry Potter, Murphy’s Restaurant, Froyo
Sunscreen, running and social networking sites.

 

  

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

arts&life

MONDAY,

   

  

1

  

aﬂes C§t r «E05 1'’

‘ra-

  

H.

   

 
  
   
  
 

  
  

—aer22

 

Taming of the Shrew oes west  

Just “howdy ” you tame the shrew? The National Players present afresh new twist on the classic Shakespeare comedy

By Gabrielle Tremo
5 TA F F w R I T E R

This week, Washington and Lee’s
Keller Theater was graced with the
presence of the National Players. The
National Players, the longest running
touring company in America, performed
the Shakespeare classic The Taming of
the Shrew. Shrew, a play whose plot was
borrowed from the well-known movie
10 Things I Hate About You, details the
“wooing” of two women: Kate—the
shrew— and her “more desirable” sister,
Bianca.

While the play contained many com-
plexities and subplots, the main focus
was thus: Everyone in the town wants to
marry Bianca because she’s pretty and
tame, but her father won’t marry her off
until Kate, a shrew (or “difﬁcult, temper-
amental woman”) is married. The play
follows how one man, Petruchio (also
known as Heath Ledger, in the movie 10

   

 

 



Things I Hate About You) “tames” Kate
into marrying him and obeying him as a
loyal wife as well as the rivalry of mul-
tiple men for the hand ofBianca.

The National Players did a re-hash of
the play, and instead of setting it in Italy
where Shakespeare had imagined it, put
it in the Wild West. Men were adorned
in cowboy boots and wide~brimmed
hats and women in lush lace dresses.
The set was composed of intentionally
ramshackle buildings constructed to cor-
respond to the run-down houses of West-
ern ﬁlm fame. As ifstraight out ofa Clint
Eastwood spaghetti-Western, characters
carried pistols, faced stand-offs and
drank in saloons. The lights would dim
to subtle orange during love scenes, like
a classic Arizona sunset.

The style ofthis play was drawn from
the classical Italian Renaissance theatre

 

   pagrfiaf. the 

      Phi needs ectedacarea  
iwrifers ijfo cover p ,  ,
 ears on camp.t1s.and ,"

 

  -staff a Sunday l A

tradition of commedia dell’arte. This
translates into the “comedy of craft" in
English, which was a form of comedy
that Shakespeare’s earlier plays were
very fond of. While it calls for ﬂatter,
“two-dimensional” characters and plays
more with traditional archetypal roles, it
allows for a greater depth ofcomedy and
expanded improvisation.

In addition, the Players noted that
while the characters themselves may be
flatter than those in a tragic play (Romeo
and Juliet, for example), it did allow for
a greater cohesion of comedy and physi-
cal interaction in the form ofinsults and
slapstick which, in turn, gave greater
leeway into the understanding of the
themes ofthe play itself.

Throughout the show, the atmosphere
was full ofcomedy. Assistant Director of
the National Players Michael Kelly said

 

ofthe play, “The world of The Taming of

the Shrew is one rife with classic comic
situations: servants disguised as their
masters, masters disguised as servants,
young lovers deceiving their fathers, and
joyful triple marriage."

The National Players did everything
in their power to capture this world.
With a combination of slapstick argu-
ments, street brawls, and comedic sound
effects to accompany the ﬁght scenes,
the audience roared in laughter at every
motion performed by the actors. Many
scenes where the characters verbally in-
sulted one another (as is likely to hap-
pen in Shakespeare plays) were also ac-
companied by physical violence. In the
minds of the Players, this juxtaposition
of the physical and the verbal insults
showcased the intense intellectual and
emotional sparring of the characters.

For example, the ﬁghts between Kate
and Petruchio elicited laughter as they
literally personified the classic “battle of
the sexes.”

i On the surface level, the humor was
light and witty in a way only Shake-
speare could supply. In addition, the in-
telligent and comedic delivery ofthe ex-
perienced actors brought in a great deal
of response from the audience.

The National Players did a fantastic
revamp of the classic Shakespeare play
by adding their own time period, their
own effects, and their own interpreta-
tion of the words. It created an interest-
ing and entertaining production for all
those in the theater. Congratulations to
the National Players for an excellent per-
formancel

  

  
 
 
 
 
   
   

MAY 7,2012

 

MONDAY, MAY 7,2012

 

5 . THE RING-TUM PHI {

Men’s streak ends

Generals lose to 3rd ranked Lynchburg in ODAC championship game

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Men’s lacrosse jumped to an
early lead against Lynchburg on
Sunday. After the ﬁrst quarter
they held a 2-0 lead in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
championship game thanks to
goals by junior Mac Means and
ﬁrst-year Garret Paglia.

Lynchburg was able to come
back in the second quarter and
entering the second half led the
game 3-2.

The Hornets opened the game
up in the second half. They out-
scored the Generals 8-2 in the
second half.

Lynchburg greatly outshot
Washington and Lee throughout
the entire game. They attempted
41 shots compared to W&L’s 23.

W&L was kept in the game
once again by the goalkeeping
of ﬁrst-year Warren Barenis. He
saved 15 out of the 25 shots that
he faced while playing the full
game in the net. In the ﬁrst two
games of the ODAC tournament
he combined for 25 saves as

W&L defeated the third and sec-
ond_ seeded teams. 7

The Homets proved to be too
much for Barenis and the Gener-
als, forcing their season to end
with a 10-9 record. The Hornets’
season will continue when the
NCAA tournament begins thanks
to an automatic bid from winning
the ODAC title. The NCAA tour-
nament begins on Wednesday.

The Generals won two of three

major awards with the conclusion .
of the game. Junior Joe LaSala »-

won the ODAC Scholar-Athlete
of the Year while ﬁrst-year Cam-
eron Dabir was named Rookie of
the Year. LaSala was also selected
as a member of the ﬁrst-‘team all-
ODAC squad.

Tennis racks in awards

White and Meighan take home ODAC Athlete of the Year Awards

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Both the men’s and women’s teams
(took home the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Athlete of the Year Award.

The men’s winner is junior Hayden
White. He co-won the award with junior
Meredick Ceril of Randolph-Macon.
White was Washington and Lee’s num-
ber one singles player this season. He

had a 15-6 singles record. White also
teamed up with ﬁrst-year Taylor Sham-
shiri in the doubles matches. They ﬁn-
ished their season with a 13-6 record.
White was joined by ﬁve others who
earned ODAC ﬁrst-team honors. He was
joined by seniors Michael Freeman, Jer-
emy Becht, and Ben Fass as well as ﬁrst-

<lQ§ riiiwz 

years Shamshiri and Christopher Hu.

White also won the ODAC Scholar-
Athlete award.

On the women’s side, ﬁrst-year Sonja
Meighan was the big winner. She was
also tabbed as the conference Rookie of
the Year.

Meighan was just one of nine W&L

d ODAC’s ”Ath|ete ofithe Year Award”after their success in the ODAC this season.

l07 N Main Street

women to earn ODAC ﬁrst-team honors.
She isjoined by seniors Jen Snyder, Lau-
ren Lukas, and Trelsie Sadler,junior Sal-
lie Grifﬁn, sophomore Cameron Dorsey,
and fellow ﬁrst-years Patricia Kirkland,
Allison Hupalo, and Meghan Buell.
Additionally, women’s coach Eric
lshada was named ODAC Coach of the

COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTS.COM

Year for the ﬁfth time in ten seasons at
the helm. He led the Generals to a 19-5
overall record.

”Pure Eats is

Lexington’s newest
slice of heaven.”

462-6000

-The Washington Post (12/30/11)

  _   Premium local burgers, fresh doughnuts,
  fries, Homestead Creamery milk shakes, A
If   dailysoups and stews...only the good stuff  

facebookcom/PureEatsYum

for menu updates and news

coming soon: beer!

 

6 - THE RING-TUlV‘l_PH| -

MONDAY, MAY 7,2012

sports

 

in the numbers
  1

The total number of eight—seeded teams in the NHL playoffs
that have ever defeated the top two seeded teams in the same
playoffs. The Los Angeles Kings became the ﬁrst team to do so
after defeating the St. Louis Blues 3-1 on Sunday. They advance

to the Western conference ﬁnals for thesecond time‘ in history.

41

The total number of points that New York Knick Carmelo An-

thony scored in Sunday's Game 4 versus the Miami Heat. The

Knicks were facing elimination in a four-game sweep if they
lost the game. The Knicks defeated the Heat 89-87 and will ‘play

in Game 5 on Wednesday in Miami.

11

The total number of years since the Knicks have won a game in

The Morse Code

Senior Equestrienne Does Not Horse Around

By Graham Colton
STA F F WR lTE R

“No hour of life is wasted that is spent in
the saddle,” Winston Churchill once said. Un-
doubtedly, Washington and Lee senior horse-
back rider Tamara Morse has spent many an
hour in the saddle. At her Bristow, Va. home,
she trains six days a week with several horses

' including her private horse of two and a half
years, Heads Up 3E. During the spring, sum-
mer, and early fall, Morse rides Heads Up 3E
in New York and Virginia. When the winter
months arrive, the two head south to compete
in Florida. At school, Morse and the W&L
Riding team start practicing in September and
ﬁnish competing in April. After graduation
and outside of work, Morse plans to show
jump with Heads Up 3E.

In addition to her athletic success, this ac-
counting and business administration double
major earned a 4.0 GPA last term. But how
does Morse have the time to do it all? “I’ve
had to become really good at managing my
time to balance my academics and athletics,”
says Morse, who has been showing compet-
itively since the age of six. “Since both of
these take so much time, I had to really com-
mit to do well in both. I have pretty high ex-
pectations for myself and I’ve really pushed
myself to meet these expectations in both rid-
ing and school.”

Morse, who has thrice been awarded Old
Dominion Athletic Conference (ODAC)/F arm

Bureau Insurance Scholar-Athlete of the Year
honors, recently took home red and white rib-
bons in the 2012 Intercollegiate Horse Show
Association (IHSA) National Championships
at the Hunt Horse Complex in Raleigh, N.C.
Last Thursday, Morse placed second out of 10
competitors in the Individual Open Equitation
on the Flat to become the Reserve National
Champion. On Friday, she defeated 32 oth-
er equestriennes to claim fourth place in the
United States Equestrian Foundation (USEF)/
Cacchione Cup for the second straight year.
Despite sitting in 13th place with 77.00 points
after the ﬁrst fences phase of the event, she
tied for third place in the flat Phase II with
84.50 points to ﬁnish fourth overall with
161.50 total points. ‘

Both recently and throughout her career,
Morse has succeeded by diligently practicing
during the academic year and outside it. “‘I’ve
worked really hard to get where I’m at,” she
says. “At home I ride six days a week, often
riding several horses each day. At school I
can’t ride as much so I have to make the most
of the practices I do have.”

Since mounting a horse at her aunt’s house
as a four-year-old toddler, Morse has “always
loved animals.” She has worked the past four
summers as a Veterinary Assistant at Occo-
quan Animal Hospital in Woodbridge, Va. In
this labor of love, she takes “care of boarders

and _patients including medicating, feeding,
cleaning up after [animals], and general care
[of animals].”

Her job description also includes “assist-
ing veterinarians with treatments and exami-
nations.” At home and at school, though, par-
ents, coaches, and teammates have helped her.
Morse gratefully acknowledges their impor-
tance to her success. “My parents have given
a lot for me to ride,” Morse says. “My train-
ers have been fantastic in helping me pursue
my goals so I can do well at this level.” Since
joining Coach Gordon Reistrup and the varsi-

ty riding squad in the fall of2008, Morse has ‘

thoroughly enjoyed being a part ofthe team.

Unlike most of her teammates, however,
Morse competes individually in regionals,
zones, and nationals until early May. Given
the victorious conclusion to her senior season,
though, Morse now looks to life beyond col-
lege and riding. Following graduation, she
begins a summer internship with accounting
giant Ernst and Young in McLean, Va. “After
that I have a fewadditional credits to com-
plete online for the CPA exam and I have to
take the CPA exam,” Morse says. “Hopefully
I will start work full—time with EY the follow-
ing fall.” If she can audit as well as her and
Heads Up 3E can clear a showjump, she will
probably get thejob.

  

the playoffs. Before defeating the Heat on Sunday, the Knicks

had not won in the playoffs since April 29, 2001 .'

.150l

The total number of yards between the barn at the Churchill

Women take ODAC crown

Klein, Brewster, and Shearin lead Generals to victory
By Leigh Dannhauser

Downs, where a body was found Sunday and the barn where

this year's Kentucky Derby winner”|’|| Have Another” is kept.

soapbox

SPORTS EDITOR

The women’s lacrosse team took an early
lead on Sunday and never looked back.

Washington and Lee struck ﬁrst, taking a
3-0 lead within the ﬁrst seven minutes of the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference champi-
onship game against Roanoke. It was a lead
they would never relinquish as they became
ODAC champs 53 minutes ofplay later.
i The biggest difference in the game was
shot differential. The Generals took 42 shots,
more than two and a half times the sixteen
shots that the Maroons took. Maroon goalies
Lauren Curtin and Laura Zdziarski combined
for 13 saves.

Leading the Generals on the scoreboard
were sophomores Margaret Klein and Meéde

Brewster, and senior Alli Shearin. Klein
scored a game-high ﬁve goals and added an
assist. Brewster and Shearin added four goals
apiece to the Generals total while Shearin
added three assists as well. All three were
named ﬁrst team all-ODAC after the comple-
tion of the game.

Senior goalie Cara Mulligan was added to
the ﬁrst-team all-ODAC squad as well. On
Sunday she made seven saves and allowed
three goals in over 50 minutes of play. On the
season she made 94 saves in 19 games and
had an 84.6 win percentage.

The biggest lead for the Generals in the
ﬁrst half was ﬁve goals. They led 6-1 with
thirteen minutes left in the half and led 8-3

entering halftime.

W&L opened the game up during the sec-
ond half of play. They went on a 9-0 run that
lasted nearly the ﬁrst 25 minutes of the half.
Roanoke scored their ﬁrst goal of the second
half with just 5:30 remaining in the game to
make it l7-4.

Jamie Golden and Kathleen Wager led the
way for Roanoke. Golden scored three of the
goals while Wager scored the other two.

Roanoke ends their season with an I1-7
record.

With the win W&L improves to a l5-4 re-
cord. They also receive an automatic bid to
the NCAA tournament. The opening round of
the tournament begins Wednesday.

 
 

“He’s the starter. Period.” _ “ if 1 , g. _‘  V. ; ;- , : , ,     I

I
:-

—waamn¢nn Redsldnsooach Mlloshamhanaboutdnlﬂao ft;
nobonenmniii.ReiIiwasdnruodjusuastwaokandisnow
bolriclabeledasthonedsldrldnumbororroquarlnrbadt,
mmslmm

“ I’m coming back. Write it down in big
letters. I ’m not going out like this.”

-NowYorkYunloescIosorMaI1anoRlvaraonhlsseasorI
endlngknoolnluryon Fi'|dqy.Maruhadspeoulaladﬂ|at1h|s
seasortwouldbohlslastmrtdbollovadulataftortholnlury
howasuolrigmrcumﬂounulnodmolmurydnaﬁqrrctui
ballsdurlnchulztlngpracﬂooboforoapmo

CONGRATULATIONS
/- TO THE WOMEN'S
LACROSSE TEAM
ON THEIR WIN AT

 

 

. 0
0 D A C‘ S ! COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Saturday
W o m e n ’ 5 Te n n is NCAA 1st Round NCAA 2nd R°U"d
Men’s Lacrosse .

Baseball

M e n ’s Te n n is NCAA 1st Round NCAA 2nd Round
Track
Golf

Women's Lacrosse

_ynchburg Combined Lynchburg Combined Dr. Keeler Invite Dr. Keeler invite

NCAA Round 1

 

 

