6

 

 

 

Move 

  

 

ROFLMAO.

Over—the—top ‘Comedy of Errors’ took the
stage over the weekend, entertaining the
community and Johnsons alike.

ARTS&L|FE / page 6

  WASHINGTON min LEE UNIVERSITY

    TI-IE RI1\i(3—TUM PHI.

 

MONDAY,'MARCH 5, 2012

I’! IRE SIIIUEIITS AID FOR THE SIIIDEIIS SINCE 1597 VOLUMECXV,NUMBER15

Speed read
for charity

By Cynthia Lam
5 TA F F w R IT E R

This week, First Book will host its annual Speed
Read Week from March 5-9 in Elrod Commons to raise
money to purchase books for Iow—income children in
the Rockbridge County area. The charity event will
feature an interactive reading challenge for students
and community members, in addition to raﬁ’le draw-
ings and George and Bob t-shirt sales.

According to First Book secretary David Thomas,
the purpose of the event and the organization itself is to
promote awareness about this pressing cause and raise
funds to buy books for local schools.

“The main goal... is twofold: To educate our cam-
pus on the situation of our community,” said ﬁrst-year
Thomas. “The schools are underfunded and the fami-
lies often too poor to purchase books needed to help
young kids get on the right start for reading; then, from
the money raised we will work with local schools to
ﬁnd out what types of books they are lacking and then
use the funds from our events to purchase books for
students to read and enjoy.”

During the challenge, each participant will be given
the opportunity to read a Dr. Seuss book as quickly as
possible in 15 seconds. Whoever is able to read the
most words within that time frame will win one of the
many generous prizes offered, which include Fancy
Dress tickets for the First Prize winner and gift certiﬁ-
cates to local eateries such as the Co-Op, Hillel House,
and Pure Eats for the Second and Third Prize winners.

”It’s crazy to think that for $3, a person could be
walking away with two tickets to FD (which, com-
bined, is worth its weight in gold), but First Book is
making it happen, all for literacy,” said First Book co-
chair sophomore Joni Deutsch.

Last year, Speed Read Week raised about $600,
and the rafﬂe in the fall eamed another $500 for the
charity. The highlight of the experience, according to
Deutsch, was the involvement and support shown by
the entire school community, as students, employees,
and sorority members helped contribute to the success
of the event.

The week also generated many memorable mo-
ments and funny stories.

“The funniest thing about Speed Read Week is lis-
tening to the people read Dr. Seuss at-a-super-high-
intensity-speed. As far as I know, no one has been able
to read the entire book in 15 seconds, so that title is still
up-for-grabs,” said Deutsch.

Thomas, whojoined the First Book team in the fall,
has high hopes for this year’s Speed Read Week.

“Students at W&L are really trying hard to burst the
bubble of our campus,” he said. “I know the schools
and families really appreciate the resources our events
are able to provide. I hope students will know that any
act of kindness, even if it‘s making yourself sound fun-
ny reading really quickly in 15 seconds, is worth the
world to a little kid wanting to grow up and have the
same opportunities we all have been afforded.”

According to Thomas, this is truly a win-win situa-
tion for everyone involved in the event.

“Inspirationally, everyone wins: kids get books, stu-
dents learn about our community, prizes will be won,
and Dr. Seuss will be read pretty quickly for all to see,”
he said. “I think this would be a great group activity for
fraternity pledges if you ask me!”

Geologist Dr. Jim Reynolds came to W&L to discuss climate

change.

Panel. discusses honor

Interfraternity Council coordinates discussion on honor on and off the hill

By Tommy Kent
5 TA F F w R IT E R

Freshman and sophomore frater-
nity members came out of the rain
and into Lee Chapel to listen to a
panel organized by the IFC to address
the topic of“A Community of Civil-
ity” last Wednesday. The panel was
moderated by Beau Dudley ’74 ‘79L
and included President Ken Ruscio
’76, Professor Holt Merchant ’6l,
Lacrosse Coach Gene McCabe, and
senior John Wells.

For about an hour, the panel an-
swered questions presented by Dud-
ley concerning the honor system off
the Hill and on the athletic ﬁeld, as
well as the legacy of Robert E. Lee.
The meeting concluded with the pre-
sentation of the award-winning capi-
tal campaign video titled “Echoes of
the Past, Voices of the Future”.

Senior Woodie Hillyard, President
of the IFC, was responsible for the
idea and helped to organize the panel.

“I felt there was a need to make
people realize the broader meaning of
the honor system,” he said. “The EC
can’t deal with every matter. I real-
ized that there is a bit ofa disconnect
on how people act on the Hill and off
the Hill. It's kind ofour hope that the
freshmen don’t fear the honor sys-
tem but feel proud to be students at
W&L.”

In the opening, Ruscio said,
“When we were thinking about this,
one of the panelists asked me, did
[the students]‘do something wrong?
The answer is no. Tonight is a night
that we want you to leave here with
a great sense of pride and a feeling
of obligation to make W&L a better

place. W&L is one of the few uni-
versities left in the country that is not
afraid to talk about values and tradi-
tions.”

Citing the University’s mission
statement, Ruscio said, “Here at
W&L we can pursue our education’s
mission in a climate of leaming....
The statement says everything that
we are trying to accomplish here.”

The mission statement reads:
Washington and Lee University pro-
vides a liberal arts education that
develops students’ capacity to think
freely, critically, and humanely and
to conduct themselves with honor.
integrity, and civility. Graduates will
be prepared for life-long learning,
personal achievement, responsible
leadership, service to others, and
engaged citizenship in a global and
diverse society.

Ruscio, stating the signiﬁcance of
two stories and what they say about
W&L, mentioned former Senator
John Warner, the second longest serv-
ing Senator in history of Virginia, and
Virginia House of Delegates member
Lacey Putney.

“When asked, how is it that two
individuals led a life to that end of
service, Warner said it was because
of W&L and the honor system,” he
said.

The second story concerned the
portraits of George Washington and
Robert E. Lee and the lives that they
led.

“No other colleges have that kind
of rich heritage of unselﬁsh duty to
others. You are now the custodians

of that. You are the ones who have to
fulﬁll these principles,” said Ruscio.

“I really think it was Lee’s charac-
ter that brought him [to W&L],” said
Merchant, discussing Lee’s legacy.
“Around 80 percent of Southern col-
leges did not reopen after the Civil
War. [Lee] made possible what we
are today.”

Concerning the honor system,
Merchant said, “[Lee] created an at-
mosphere. He created an expecta-
tion. He set the bar very, very high.”

John Wells, a former member of
the Executive Council, began by
mentioning the lack of codiﬁcation
in the White Book, stating, “That’s a
pretty incredible gift.”

.“It loses face value if we only
think about [honor] when we are tak-
ing a test,” he said.

Coach McCabe discussed the con-
cept ofbeing “your brother’s keeper.”

“What we are really talking about
I think is taking better care of our-
selves,” McCabe said. “The idea of
being your brother’s keeper essen-
tially means we are there for each
other. I wonder if that is something
that we can apply to everyone on
campus. You can apply the idea of
team chemistry to how we feel about
our community.”

When asked asked if dedication
to the honor system meant sacriﬁcing
fun, Wells replied, with an“absolutely
not.”

“I think the biggest beneﬁt of be-
ing in a fraternity is when people
are showing each other the most re-
spect,” he said. “ Hazing at a funda-

mental level is not being your broth-
er’s keeper.” ‘

Ruscio said that W&L deﬁes the
social science law, which states that
there is a tension between becoming
a member of a community and grow-
ing as an individual. Ruscio also
mentioned the two ways that behav-
ior can be inﬂuenced: following the
rules and regulations that someone
lays out for you or through develop-
ing a set of values that inﬂuence the
choices that you make.

In application to W&L’s honor
system, Ruscio said, “The stronger
the values, the weaker the rules. We
are trying to help you strengthen the
values.”

“It wasn’t because Lee was lazy.
He was in some ways a philosophical
man. He thought you should follow
values, not rules,” Ruscio said, when
discussing Lee’s concept of only one
rule. “When you see a lot of regula-
tions, that is a sign that the commu-
nity values are not as strong as they
should be.”

Ruscio also said that the universi-
ty is a “gift” and an “inheritance.” He
added that men “can beneﬁt from the
sacriﬁce of others, only if you realize
the obligation you have for those who
will come after you.”

Dudley added that attending W&L
is a “privilege.”

“You will become W&L. I can
only add that I hope this causes you
to pause and realize what a special
privilege it is to be in college here,”
Dudley said.

Prof. warns on Warming

Geologist Dr. Jim Reynolds discusses “Climate Change and the Return of the Ice Age ”

By Allie Weiss
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Geologist Dr. Jim Reynolds,
Ph.D., visited W&L to discuss the
potentially catastrophic effects of
global warming, last Monday.

Dr. Reynolds’s lecture, entitled
“Climate Change and the Return of
the Ice,” comes with a warning. He
begins his lecture by telling his listen-
ers that this would not be an upliﬁing
talk. In fact, after a lecture given not
too long ago, one woman approached
him to comment that he had just ru-
ined her vacation. Since our vacation
has just ended, he ﬁgures that we
won’t have the same problem, and so
he continues.

Dr. Reynolds ﬁrst informs his au-
dience that Earth has been experienc-
ing Ice Age cycles
for the past 3 mil-
- lion years. Ice Ages

are punctuated by
' interglacial periods,
one of which we are
in now.

Interglacial peri-
‘ ods, Reynolds says,
: are caused by seven
' central factors. The
' ﬁrst factor is the
 Milankovitch Cy-
pl cles. The Earth’s re-

" lationship with the
sun changes with
regards to the shape
of the orbit and the
tilt of the axis. This
affects the way heat
is distributed across
the planet, accord-
ing to Reynolds.

The second fac-
tor is the albedo, or
the reflectivity of
the Earth’s surface.
The Earth’s sur-
face, when covered
in snow, reﬂects all
the sunlight com-
ing in, thus making
for a colder envi-

 

ronment. This is a good thing when
you’re dealing with the Arctic Ocean,
which is covered in ice, because if
the climate gets too warm then the
ice caps begin to melt. However, if
the light that is reﬂected by the ice
gets trapped in the layer of green-
house gases in the atmosphere, then
the Earth starts to heat up. As a result,
the layer of ice over the Arctic Ocean
starts to melt, according to Reynolds.

Reynolds then says that atmo-
spheric concentration patterns are the
third factor. In other words: exactly
how heavily concentrated green-
house gases are in the atmosphere.
Even before cars and coal took a
shine to the pollution of our planet,
these gases were present. Since the
Industrial Revolution caught on in
the eighteenth century, that layer has
been growing steadily denser.

The fourth factor is the Coriolis
Effect, which means that because the
Earth is spinning, winds and water
will bend.

Reynolds’s ﬁfth factor is the sur-
face oceanic currents. Ocean water
ﬂows in a speciﬁc pattern. Most im-
portantly for his purposes, the North
Atlantic Current brings warm, salty
water to Northern Europe. That part
of Europe has a latitude equal to that
of the Hudson Bay, though the cli-
mate is much more moderate. The
warmth is due to the North Atlantic
Current, which delivers water fresh
from the tropics to the northern part
of the continent. In other words, the
current is Europe’s heat supply.

Plate Tectonics are the sixth fac-
tor. Reynolds points out that the way
Earth’s plates move determine the
world’s climate.

Finally, Reynolds said the seventh
factor is Thermohaline Circulation,
or deep-water currents. The main two
rules for this one are that salt water is
denser than fresh water and cold wa-
ter is denser than warm water. Ocean-
ic currents are like a really intricate,

long chain of dominoes, and the Arc-
tic Ocean is like the two year old that
comes along and kicks it into motion.
The Arctic Ocean basin is full ofcold,
salty water, and when the basin ﬁlls
up, that dense water spills out into the
Atlantic Ocean and sets the chain in
motion. From there, the cold water
sinks to the bottom of the Atlantic
Ocean and becomes North Atlantic
deep water. It then spreads into the
Paciﬁc and Indian oceans, and goes
on to coat most of the oceans of the
world. Then it rises up at the coast of
Antarctica and in the Arabian Sea and
in the Gulf ofAlaska, and is recycled
back into the Arctic Ocean, at which
point the cycle starts over again.

Overall, when the greenhouse
gases in the atmosphere are too con-
centrated, they prevent the sunlight
that is being reflected by the ice from
exiting the atmosphere. This causes
the climate to get too warm, and the
layer of ice over the Arctic Ocean to
melt. When that layer is gone, the
winds over the Arctic Ocean become
moist, and carry that moisture to the
northern halves of the continents
around the ocean, resulting in inas-
sive amounts of snow being dumped
onto North America and Eurasia.

According to Reynolds, the bad
news is that this snow melts and be-
comes fresh water, trickling back into
the Arctic Ocean in abundant supply.
To an ocean, which had previously
carried mostly salt water, this signiﬁ-
cant addition of fresh water is a big
deal. Because it is less dense than salt
water, this inﬂux causes the top half
of the Arctic Ocean basin to be made
up completely of fresh water. When
the time comes around for the basin’s
water to spill over and enter the At-
lantic Ocean, the only water leaving
the basin is fresh water.

This shakes things up for the oce-
anic currents, which were previously
set in motion by much denser water.
The North Atlantic Current, which

is made up of dense salt water, sinks
beneath this onslaught of fresh water.
And thus Europe’s heat supply is cut
off.

According to Reynolds, this is
all inthe works right now. To em-
phasize his point, he ﬂashes a slide
which reads that this scenario might
unfold in less than ﬁve years. He then
reveals that he wrote that prediction
three years ago.

Reynolds is by no means the ﬁrst
person to voice this idea. In fact, most
geologists do not believe that such
an event will take place within such
a short period of time. However, the
pattern presented by Reynolds pres-
ents a compelling argument concem-
ing the way in which a warm climate
could result in a cooling event.

This won’t be the ﬁrst time the
planet has experienced a cooling
event. Reynolds explains that 8,200
years ago, an abrupt but mild cooling
event occurred that lasted 100 years.
Back then, this happening might have
seemed unfortunate to the Earth’s in-
habitants. Today, such an event would
be catastrophic. Because our planet’s
population has grown so much since
that time, the shorter growing sea-
sons caused by such a climate change
would result in a huge increase in the
number of people who die from star-
vation each year, according to Reyn-
olds.

Starvation won’t be humanity’s
only problem if this scenario plays
out. Mass migration could also be an
issue. V

In an effort to end his lecture on a
more positive note, Reynolds allows_
that rate might be critical. Getting rid
of carbon-based ﬁiels might be the
difference between whether Ther-
mohaline Circulation stops or simply
slows down. “We are living in a very
delicate time,” Reynolds said, “And
the Arctic Ocean is key.”

a

3“.

»4

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

we. £1 5 2012”

2 - THE RING—TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2012

on

opinions

 

Post—modern

Wilson examines the hookup culture and encourages s

I This semes-
ter, I am taking
a fantastic upper
division English
seminar called
“Cowboys and
Indians.” This
enlightening
course investi-
gates the west-
em genre. Natu-
rally, stories of
the Wild West
are chock full
of fascinating
gender dynam-
ics between macho cowboys and docile
damsels. In addition, depictions of Na-
tive American tribalism depict a similar
patriarchal culture.

Many of our class discussions have
focused on the postmodern male that ex-
ists in many of the assigned texts. These
include James Welch’s “Fool’s Crow”

   

By Fmncescawison
cnLuumisr

and Cormac McCarthy’s “All the Pretty
Horses,” which both use a postmodern
frame to depict relations between men
and women. These texts lament the loss
of traditionalism in modern society. As
the semester has progressed, I have be-
gun to think more and more about the
lack of mutual respect between males
and females at Washington and Lee. It
would be really easy to just blame the
males and write about the “frat boys”’
failure to value females. However, it is a
completely two-sided issue. As much as
males treat females badly, females allow
males to treat them badly. Blame should
not be attached to one of the sexes, rather
to postmodern society.

The influence of postmodernism on
American culture has completely low-
ered the criterion of female expectation
from males. Postmodernism champions
the ultra-independent who rejects tradi-
tional gender norms. The postmodern
movement has greatly inﬂuenced popu-

lar culture to the point where many of
the subliminal messages presented in the
media support a postmodern approach to
gender relations. Open up any magazine
or ﬂip to any channel on TV and you’ll
be bombarded with casual sex and chil-
dren born out of wedlock.

The inﬂuence of postmodernism on
gender relations has diminished females’
standards for males. For example, in our
parents’ generation, sex was.still on a
pedestal. Intercourse signiﬁed commit-
ment and emotional connection. These
days, it’s a big deal when Washington
and Lee students have sober sex. Not to
mention, sex is maybe not always ex-
pected, but an effort is often made during
the ﬁrst couple of hookups.

In many cases, girls concede to these
attempts and disillusionment ensues. Af-
ter sleeping with a boy, many girls form
an emotional attachment and are often
devastated when the postmodern college
boy does not reciprocate this sentiment.

Furthermore, I’ve noticed many girls
suffering from being used but desper-
ately trying to disregard this emotion be-

gender relations  

tudents to follow their instincts, instead of cultural norms

I am neither attempting to solve the
loss of traditionalism within our culture
nor am I trying to rid Washington and

In our parents ’ generation, sex was still on a pedes-

tal. Intercourse signiﬁed commitment and emotional

connection. These days, it s a big deal when Wash-

ington and Lee students have sober sex.
 

cause they’re convinced (by postmodern
society) that sex can and should be ca-
sual. It seems that for boys sex is by and
large a natural expression of the body
and the act’s intimacy can beisolated to
purely physical rather than emotional. I
think it’s just how they’re wired. Con-
versely, I have met very few females for
whom sex isn’t a big deal. We can’t help
but be psychologically emotional about
intercourse. It’s how we’re wired.

Lee of a postmodern inﬂuence. It is only
natural for society to change over time,
and a rejection of conservative norms
in many ways deﬁnes our generation.
With that in mind, I only hope that all
students at Washington and Lee (not just
the females) know that we do not have to

abide by the postmodern norms for gen-

der relations. We should follow our gut
instincts, especially with regard to the
culture of hooking up.

The adventures of a Barbour 'acket

What is the one piece of clothing EVERY W&L student owns? Platt tells students how to avoid losing their favorite item

Any visitor
taking a quick
stroll through
our campus
might ask
the question,
“Why is every-
_ one dressed in

3. green shooting
jackets?” Ah,
I the uninitiated.
How could one
I not know that

with our mix of

Southern cul-

ture and Anglic-
philia there is simply no other coat that
could make us feel quite so at home?
Well, perhaps that is not true. The whims
of fashion have simply dictated that the
Barbour is a must-have. Reasons are un-
important. So most of us, upon arriving
here as freshmen, er, excuse me, “First-
Years,” go along with the crowd and get
one either fall or Christmas break. Me

   

Byi5alIyPIatI

CDLIJIIHIST

included. So goes individualism.
‘ But ah well, they are beautiful coats.

has a fuzzy lining. And it smells like nice
old wax. Then, depending on how much

And whatever you do, don ’t leave it anywhere at

Pumptown. I don ’t know why, but the place just

seems to eat coats

 

Getting one is just the easy part, how-
ever. The hard part is keeping up with it.
When every other person owns a piece
of clothing basically identical to yours it
can get quite confusing. It can be espe-
cially confusing when you yourself are
confused. Being tipsy greatly adds to the
chance of a mix-up. Before going out I
always remind myself: wear a coat that
stands out. Something maroon or yellow.
Just don’t wear the Barbour. Or the black
North Face. Not something there will
be a million of. But who likes wearing
maroon coats? Or yellow for that mat-
ter. Plus, the Barbour is just so cozy. It

MANAGING EDITOR

llttsemciisn un- In Umeism V

THE RING—TUM PHI.

DIANDRA SPICAK

 

ColumnstAlli

I have pre-gamed, it usually comes out
with me.

Now on Barbour #3 and not even
done with Sophomore year, I decided I
had to do something about it. That was
a few weeks ago. As of now, I have not
lost it for three weeks (I). Bit ofa record.
As I’m sure I’m not the only one who
occasionally has losing-things issues I
thought I would share how I managed it.

First, I put my name in my coat. This
might seem like a bit of a no-brainer.
Duh. But because of the number of un-
claimed and unnamed coats now sitting
in the Commons Info desk I think it is

The federal gov-

ing, though. In fact, he has made a promise

something often overlooked. You may
feel like a kid going to camp, writing
your name on every tag, but it serves its
purpose.

Second, when you arrive at a loca-
tion, DON’T put it with all the other
coats. This is a recipe for getting it lost or
“accidentally taken.” A bunch of girls all
rushing in at 1:45 to grab their coat from
a mountain of green can easily make a
mistake. (I know, I’ve accidentally taken
people’s before.) Instead, put it in a place
not so foreign that you won’t be able to
remember it yourself but somewhere
that is a bit removed from the others.
Say, inside the dryer at Windfall instead
of on top of it. And whatever you do,
don’t leave it anywhere at Pumptown. I
don’t know why, but the place just seems
to eat coats.

Third, if you do lose one you have
a few options. You can frantically text
everyone the next day hoping someone
grabbed it by accident. You can grab
someone else’s that looks just like yours

as you go out the door and hope you can
trade later. You can also, if you’re brave,
put a notice in the “Lost and Found” of
Campus Notices. Although the idea of
having the entire student body know ex-
actly where you were the past weekend
and what you lost may be embarrassing,
I have recovered at least one coat in this
way (thank you, Phi Delts).

So it is possible to successfully keep
up with and wear the same Barbour
coat for a lengthy period of time. This
is good, as I don’t think my parents will
be remotely willing to buy me any more.
Luckily, this shouldn’t even be an issue if
this gorgeous spring term weather keeps
up. So whoever is now wearing my old
lost jackets, I hope you’re enjoying
them. I certainly did. But if I ever ﬁnd
out who (accidentally) grabbed them and
didn’t turn them into Commons, you bet-
ter watch out. They are shooting jackets
after all.

Run Vermin, run...

e Weiss introduces the platform of a. presidential hopeful

have giant turbines that we’re working on,

NEWS
OPINIONS
ARTS&L|FE

SPORTS

COPY

EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report, news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise indepehdent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540)458-4060
FAX: (540) 458-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

NEIL HAGGERTY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE

LEIGH DANNHAUSER
ERIN SCHWARTZ

ANN BURTON GERHARDT
TOMMY KENT

CYNTHIA LAM

JULIA LANCASTER
COLLEEN MOORE

SALLY PLATT
GABRIELLETREMO
ALLIEW_E|SS
FRANCESCA WILSON

JULIANNA SATTERLY

COY FERRELL
MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON

DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

 

emment has long
'. been a forum for
the joining together
of great minds. It
has been the siren’s
song to such politi-
: cal heroes as George
‘  Washington, John F.
' Kennedy, and Con-
3 dolezza Rice. It has
‘been the birthplace
. of revolutionary
freedoms and histor-

Alli Weiss . . .
Eguujmsr 1c ideas. And now, it
is infested with Ver-

min.

Well, not yet. Vermin Supreme isjust one
of the hopeful candidates hoping to call the
White House home for the next four years.
A democrat, Mr. Supreme has» some historic
ideas of his own. Should he be elected presi-
dent, the ﬁrst thing he will do is pass a man-
datory “toothbrushing” law. In his words,
“Gingivitis has been eroding the gum line of
this great nation long enough, and must be
stopped. For too long, this country has been
suffering a great moral and oral decay, in
spirit, and incisors.” Supreme is quick to as-
sure voters, however, that this law is not only
about building a team of secret dental police,
nor is it merely for the purposes of creating
dental reeducation centers and govemment-
issued toothpaste “containing an addictive
yet harmless substance.” These would all
simply be stepping stones towards healthier
teeth and a stronger country.

And, really, what else can you expect
from a guy who wears a boot on his head?

Mr. Supreme’s ideas aren’t all threaten-

which no other candidate has made thus far:
free ponies for everyone. Supreme made an
appearance before the New Hampshire Insti-
tute of Politics advisory board on December
16, 2011. When board member Terry Shu-
maker asked about Supreme’s idea to give
a pony to every American, the reply was
calm and immediate. Supreme believes that
the most overlooked issue in America is that
citizens do not have access to free ponies. A
pony-based economy will lower America’s
dependence on foreign oil, as well as serve to

and we’ll have lots of zombies, and we’ll just
dangle brains in front of them and then they
will turn the giant turbines...” Zombie rights
activists have yet to comment on this latest
development.

Mr. Supreme is a self-described “friendly
fascist” and a “tyrant that you should trust.”
He is also arguably the most honest candi-
date in the running, as he openly admits that
“Yes, I am a politician. I will promise you
anything that your little electorate heart de-
sires, because you are my constituents, you

create much-needed jobs in a time when un- are the informed voting public. And because
I have no
intention
A pony-based economy will lower America ’s de— of keeping
_ _ any prom-
pendence on foreign Oll, as well as serve to create ise that I
make.”
much-needed jobs in a time when unemployment is when
, asked to
one of the country s foremost concerns make his

  closing Te‘

employment is one of the country’s foremost
concerns. Furthermore, the ponies would be
the beginning of a federal pony identiﬁcation
program, which would necessitate owners to
have their ponies with them at all times. New
Hampshire Union Leader, Beth LaMontagne
Hall, follows up on Shumaker’s question by
asking what other entitlement programs Mr.
Supreme is in favor of. “Just that one,” Su-
preme answers. “That’s enough.”

The last issue the candidate addresses has
to do with alternative energy sources. He
believes that the best option would be “...
harnessing the power of zombies... [They’re]
not just to run away from anymore. No. We

marks, Su-
preme withdraws a small tape recorder. After
a quiet moment, the ﬁrst few notes of the
“Chicken Dance” driﬁ towards the audience,
and Supreme begins to sing that his name is
Vermin, and voters should keep him in mind.
But he isn’t ﬁnished yet. As the song draws
to a close, Mr. Supreme kindly thanks his lis-
teners, and then jumps out of his chair and
begins to wildly ﬂing glitter upon Randall
Terry, who has been listening through his
grimace thus far, and shout that “Jesus told
me to make Randall Terry gay. He’s turning
gay!” Terry, who is known for his campaigns
against homosexuality, did not look amused.

 

 

O

MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2012

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

pinions

Lessons learned over Februa

Fro visiting friends ’schools, to running errands, to shopping, Campbel

 
   

O
, , , 1. W&L could seminars on puberty in middle school,
I ‘V I have worse you probably know that boys and girls
problems than are different. Yes, we all want the gen-
poor gender re- ders to be equal. At the same time, we
lations need to acknowledge that males and fe-
You roll out males have different bodies and needs.
of bed smelling Each gender deserves privacy.
like bad breath, I guess coed bathrooms are one way
wearing retain- to force boys and girls together (admin-
ers, and looking istrator with Dr. Evil glare: “Everyone
». like you combed needs to use the bathroom males and
your hair with an females will be forced to be in the same
eggbeater. You place sober mwaha”), but this seems a
9!-campbeﬂ gun head straight to bit too casual. '
ammo"; Ep|1’g|] the bathroom to W&L may not have the best gender
give your teeth a relations, but at least we aren’t forcing
good brush and wipe away the dark layer anything.
of eye make up surrounding your eyes 2. Always eavesdrop
when, surprise surprise, you are greeted During trips to the grocery store, one
by the hottie from down the hall. He is of my favorite activities is eavesdrop-
wearing a towel around his waist and ping. My skills have improved over
waiting for his shower to warm up. the years. Piece of advice: if you want
. At a school I visited over break, they to stand in the same aisle as the couple
not only have coed dorms (i.e., 2nd floor whose conversation you are listening to,
of Davis is the norm), but also coed choose to “look” at an item that 3 con-
bathrooms. Before anyone starts think- sumer would realistically spend time
ing this is cool (“Holy shit that would be choosing. Looking at bananas for l5
sick, bro. So many girls would see my six minutes is an amateur’s error. Choose
pack and like, wanna do me”), I would to “agonize” over selections of candy or
like you to consider a few points: cereal instead. Way more realistic.
What boy wants to wait 20 minutes I saw an odd couple enter the grocery
for an open shower? store._ They did not look like they be-
What girl wants her crush to listen to longed together, and from their conver-
her pee? sation, I inferred that they had met that
What boy wants a trashcan overftow- day, possibly even minutes before (call
ing with tampon wrappers? me Sherlock).
. Unless you didn’t have mandatory The woman was short, a bit over-

lwtst Em}: past.-A318 -.~;-»v.1c:tl§tr;IltJ«. at In rtltattus

weight and had a pierced nose. She was
wearing a black t-shirt that was too tight.
The man was tall and lean; his ﬂannel
plaid shirt and jeans were very faded.
For a second, I thought he was homeless.
The way he was talking to the woman
was uncomfortable to witness. To put it
bluntly, he sounded like he was trying to
get laid.

Here is a sound bite from the conver-
sation. '

Man: “How old are you?”

Woman: “4l”

Man: “And you have two college-
aged kids?!”

Woman: “Yes”

Man.‘ “You must have been doing bad
things when you were a teenager. Too
bad I hadn‘t come along then.”

Woman: (laughs)

I unconsciously shook my head and
muttered, “Ew.” I ran into the odd couple
again when the man was saying that he
would buy chocolate only if“she would
have a piece. “ And that he “wanted to
buy it” even though he knew he “didn’t
have to.” ‘

I did not even want to let my mind
wander into what their plans were for the
afternoon.

3. Never take W&L for granted

If you have ever gone out at a different
school, you have probably realized that
the parties and students do not compare
to those at W&L. At some parties at oth-
er schools, the combination of couples

I)’

Break

lBurr shares observa l0}’lS from her travels

grinding to Top 20’s pop, boys walking
around trying very hard to look intoxi-
cated, and girls wearing slutty Hollister
tops may make you question whether
you are at a high school or college party.

Additionally, the people are not
nearly as “normal” as W&L students.
A friend at a prestigious university on
the East Coast said, “Everyone here is a
douche. And it’s not even like they are
cool and have the right to be.” He gave
me two examples. _

An English major in one ofhis classes
insists on talking in a whisper when she
is talking about class material. Riiiiight.

Another boy in ones of his classes
talks in a flamboyant, overly enthusias-
tic voice about “how much he enjoyed
the reading.”

My friend told me he missed “normal
people.” Yikes.

Before you complain about W&L,
ask your friends about their college ex-
periences and decide if you really have
something to complain about.

4. Never ask a sales associate for
help

Learned this one the hard way. I was
looking for a piece of clothing in a store,
not positive that I wanted to purchase it.
I asked an employee if she could help
find something that ﬁt me.

Not only did she point me in the right
direction, she also gathered about six
different options in my size and contin-
ued bringing me more to try on. It got to
the point where she was so invested in

looking for items for me, that I felt un-
comfortable because I knew I probably
would not buy anything. She was prob-
ably banking on a high commission.

I told her I was going to walk around
the store a bit and look around. She guid-
ed me out and continued returning to the
area where I was looking.

When I decided to leave without
purchasing anything, I felt guilty, even
though I had no reason to. When I
thought she wasn’t around, I attempted
to gracefully exit the store without her
noticing. The goal was to save myself
from seeing her face when she realized
she had wasted 20 minutes.

Unfortunately, I was wearing new
pants with a magnetic tag in the back.
Mid-exit, the beepers in the store went
off. Cover blown. '

5. Avoid running errands between
12 p.m. and 3 p.m.

I’m sure this lesson applies to other
W&L students who a) like to listen to
music in the car and b) have moms who
are huge Rush Limbaugh fans. Love the
guy to death, but hello, gotta make time
for my Kidz Bop! ‘

In conclusion, I know, pretty lame
that eavesdropping on a conversation
between two weirdos was the highlight
of my break. Maybe next time l’ll be al-
lowed to go to Mardi Gras! (This plea
to Mr. and Mrs. Burr is endorsed by the
Phi.)

AIDS AT

A {“fJl.ll«lf.1£t']li.-lTll"i YEAR ti l'l'ltStllFil§ll}'s.1.‘ii} Ill?

DRM PVYNIESILVERMAN

Au Intrmr.l“r'or:ul
Lender dial Spakrsairurr
an ill! rtrtltjtrl rlﬂllf null .-llllfi
Nutitanul §;mkt‘_~':.nmrr ﬂu
:'l.umt'mrr fawiralutims fin
.-tlllﬁ limurrtr
l1't~'l. Class of 1 

MONDAY, MARCH 19 AT 7:30 PM.
IEECHAPEI * W&L CAMPUS

Tbritzts arr ,rm-, but rquml and must he
mokrd Iptl rice tarts! (‘turn [or III: Arts
ha»: uﬂfr: pnnr to the mrnr.

Coll 3-I-hliﬁﬁﬁ lnr III’-N inform timr.

ll'~H‘1!|!’-5:1!
«..u:\

Cveoevrnai at ltutrs rd mite ercscnta.

Wtl Re any Dance tom an

‘ ¢'-u.f- "‘ . '.
-. .1" ‘Q I
H7 13.5. ~..-»:’La.‘:

‘I
F If?’

a

March 2, 21, 22,2012 at 7pm.

Keltrlheatre I Lenfest Hall
Tcbetsauezewirat.
mumeau

totheeditor:

Dear Campbell,

Thank you for your response!
I appreciate your feedback and I
understand that, as a W&L wom-
an yourself, you would not inten-
tionally propagate gender divides
at W&L. _

However, I would like to clear
up some of my points in my letter‘
that you may have misunderstood.
I think it’s greatto tackle gender
issues on campus through a comi-
cal and fun light. It makes tough

problems more interesting and

easier to talk about. But there was
no indication your article’s goal

‘was to address gender problems

on campus. Due to this reason, I
wrote my letter to bring forth the
messages that your article did
send to the female readership.
Ultimately. my goal was to cre-
ate awareness about how we, as
W&L women, speak about men
and women on campus and the
underlying gender issues that re-
sult. No woman on campus would

want to propagate gender prob-
lems, but there are times when we
say things that could be express-
ing the wrong ideas. Perhaps a
clearer intent of your opinions
would reduce misunderstandings.

, Furthermore. I must continue
to disagree with your opinion
about fraternity men being able to
fonn stronger friendships through
pledgeship than the opportuni-
ties afforded to W&L women. I
know that this is a popular opin-
ion endorsed by many people, but
I must ask, what is the basis for
this belief? Are fraternity boys
who are fresh out of pledgeship
nicer to one another? Get in less
arguments? Are more “real” with
each other? There is not a uniform
standard to base this generaliza-
tion on. Instead, this comparison
is unfair on independent men and
W&L women (both Greek and in-
dependent). since it conveys the
message that they can‘t achieve as
close of friendships because they

are not part of a fraternity.

Moreover, when you say, “As
a member of a sorority. I can as-
sure you that the level of unity
within fraternities is higher come
March than within any other
group oncampus," you are dis-
counting sections of students who
are not in the Greek system. For
example. the members of histori-
cally African American sororities
and fraternities are extremely uni-
ﬁed. You just have to look at the
work they put into a probate —
it‘s absolutely amazing. And what
about students who choose to be
independent? They consciously
choose to not be a part ofthc dom-
inating social scene on campus,
which can lead to marginaliza-
tion. Going through this decision
together is often a huge unifying
force for non-Greek students.

As a student body. we should
do away with comparisons and
generalizations about pledges‘
relationships altogether. Men and

women, no matter who they are,
can form close relationships on
their own terms independently of
one another. So yes, pledgeship
brings together a lot of W&L men
to form very close friendships
through their mutual experiences.
But I‘d also like to mutually stress
that independent men and W&L
women also form great li'icnd-
ships through other means --
whether through sports, living on
the same hall. student organ za-
tions, Greek life. non-Greek life,
D-Hall conversations. and every-
thing else undcr the spectrum of
life here at W&L. The many op-
portunities for socialization. even
outside of the Greek system. are
huge contributing factors to why
Washington and Lee is such a
great place for student life.
Sincerely.
Rachel Urban

Announcement of Fellowship Opportunity for Rising Seniors and Juniors

Do you care deeply about honor and integrity?

Are you looking for a meaningful extracurricular activity?

Does a $2,500 tuition grant appeal to you?
Would you like to travel and speak on behalf of Washington and Lee?

Members of the Classes of 201 3 and 2014 are invited to apply for the S. Cullum Owings, Jr. Fellowship for the
academic year 2012-13. Cullum was an exceptional individual from Atlanta, class of 2003, who died tragically in an
automobile accident during his senior year.The Owings Fel|ow(s) will represent the Initiative for Academic Integrity
in Secondary Schools. That program is carried out under the auspices of the W&L Institute for Honor. The Fe|low(s)
will visit at least two American secondary schools next year, to foster community conversations about academic
integrity and honor systems. Each Fellow will also receive a tuition credit of $1,250 each term.

Criteria for selection include outstanding personal integrity and solid classroom performance, although an
exceptional GPA is not required. The selection committee seeks articulate and poised students who embrace the
W&L community of honor and trust, and who would welcome the opportunity to be spokespersons for these values.
Applicants should show promise of becoming community leaders of integrity and purpose. A

You are welcome to apply and to encourage others you think would be good in this role to do 50. Applications
to the selection committee, chaired by Professor of Politics Emeritus Lewis G. John, should be emailed to Jennifer
Mero jmero@wlu.edu, by not later than midnight on Sunday March 18. The subject line of your email should say
”Owings Fellow App.”There is no application form.The application should be in either Word or PDF format, including:

1. An unofﬁcial copy of your transcript

2. A summary of activities and special talents

3. An essay of approximately 250 words on how your personal values and
experience qualify you to represent Washington and Lee as an Owings Fellow. ,

4. A statement of your agreement to make at least two off-campus visits described above, and to serve as a

Fellow while on campus for the full academic year.

5. Names of two or more members of the faculty whom the selection committee may contact as a reference.

personal interview on Monday afternoon March 26.

Questions may be addressed to existing Owings Fellows,

Ben Turnbull '12, turnbullb1r2@mai|.wlu.edu and
Harrison Tucker, '13, tuckerc13@mai|.wlu.edu

or to Professor John, johnl@w|u.edu, or

Committee Member Beau Dudley, wdud|ey@w|u.edu.

The selection committee will choose ﬁnalists and invite them to a

 

4-THE RING-TUM PHl- MONDAY, MARCH 5,2012

 Congratulationsto the Class of 2012! 

GRAD FAIR

3-DAY ANNUAL U.G. GRAD FAIR   

Wednesday, March 14"’— Friday, March 16"‘
9:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.

Atrium, Elrod Commons
The time to celebrate the end /of your four year journey is fast approaching.’

From the moment you ﬁrst stepped on campus, you knew you were entering a most special place. The
deﬁning traditions of Washington and Lee University: academic rigor, student self governance and lives
measured by truth and integrity will mark you as honorable men and women and leaders of the future. As
your journey comes to a close and as you celebrate your graduation day on May 24th, enjoy the memories
of campus life, afternoons spent at Goshen, hikes up House Mountain, Fancy Dress and the many
0 friendships you have made. Celebrate with family and friends this special day!

ORDERING YOUR ° g

CAPS & GOWN S!

This is the ONLY opportunity to be

ﬁtted for your environmentally

“green ” caps and gowns! V
(Purchase price is $50.00) A 

   

Washington and Lee
University

Engraved Chairs
Arm Chair or Rocker
“a lasting memory ”

   

2012‘ Graduation photos

(Each graduate will be photographed as they
receive their diploma ﬁom the University
President. Photos may be purchased at

The  Class Ring V PhotoStore after graduation)

Seniors.’ . Quality photo frames, lined
Order in time to wear for graduation! Wlth 3 mat emgossea Wltﬁ the Unlwrslty
name and crest are available at the Grad
Fair and the Washington and Lee

A Balfour representative will be University Store

‘available to ﬁt you for this handsome
ring.

 

 

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

a rts&|ife  

MONDAY, MARCH 5,2012

0

oli- Sci

of makes a splash

W&L students have fun performing an “over
the top ” play this weekend

, .+ uya ,

oessor a

By Gabrielle Tremo
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Bright colors and harlequin costumes
brought Shakespeare’s Comedy ofErrors
to life on the Washington and Lee stage.
The famous playwright’s shortest work
follows the quest of Antipholus and his
servant as they bumble t.hrough marital
misfortunes, money trouble, wrongful
arrest, street brawls, punny insults, and
a Shakespearean exorcism, in search of
their long-lost twin brothers.

“The humor is very over the top,”
said junior Elizabeth Lamb, the stage
manager. “lt’s campy~ like l960’s Bat-
man. l’ve done very few comedies, this
isn’t the type of play I usually do or even
see, but the campiness and fun is great
to watch.”

Colorful lights that change with the
mood complement the sparkling se-
quined coats and dresses of the charac-
ters. In the style of Commedia dell’arte,
each actor wore a mask and experienced
the difficulty of performing with a frozen
face.

As alum Emma Patrick ‘ll playing
Aegeon, observed, “Commedia dell'arte
is wacky and zany and so it helps to have
the zany acting in a zany type of play.
The style is different, but the masks add
to the whimsicalness of the play and
make the coincidences that result from
the mistaken idehtities even more hilari-
ous.”

The masks often challenge the actors’

GWis Professor Shambaugh spoke Thursday about the Chinese governments rising power

By Colleen Moore
5 TA F F w R lT E R

Mostly every country in the world
assumes China will replace the United
States as the leading superpower — even
46% ofAmericans believe that to be our
future. According to the internationally
recognized authority on contemporary
Chinese affairs, Professor David Sham-
baugh, China is a “no longer a rising
power, but a risen power.”

Thursday night, Shambaugh ad-
dressed a full house in the North Audi-
torium about the conflicts surrounding
the new Chinese power. Applying his
expertise in China’s domestic politics,
foreign relations, military and security,
Shambaugh analyzed China as what he

A4

called the “engine of global growth.”

China has been broadening is global
cultural footprint over the decades. It has
had greater and greater impacts on world
affairs than ever before. Because of this,
experts are asking questions about the
ﬁiture behavior of the Chinese leaders.
What impact will they have on the Unit-
ed States? What will they do with their
increased power and inﬁ uence‘?

One way to answer these questions is
to understand how the world sees China.
Nearly every country believes China will
replace the United States as the world’s
leading superpower. Yet, there is global
ambivalence about China’s rise.

Shambaugh says. "We see China in a
conﬂicted way for conﬁicted reasons."
Chinese nationalism is a big element in
Chinese society and in developing their
future role in the world. This is notjust a
prideful and patriotic nationalism though
e it is an angry and aggrieved national-
ism seen in sports, diplomacy and litera-
ture. The most well-known example of
this type of anger involves the YouTube
clip of the basketball brawl between
China and the U.S in 20l l.

The Chinese government did not
discover the importance of image and
public diplomacy until recently. Th V
are now using all their “tensions and

resources in tiying to improve China’s
international image,” says Shambaugh.
Consequently, there has been an upsurge
in “soft power” that focuses less on mili-
taristic, political and economic domi-
nance and more on creating a loving and
respectable image in the media.

What makes the “soft power” hard to
obtain is the “multiple identities that are
simultaneously competing about what
kind of power China should be," said
Shambaugh. There is no single iden-
tity within China agreeing on how to
step into its superpower role or how to
present itself in the media, which is the
reason for the “schizophrenic behavior”

abilities. In one scene, Aegeon, about to
be condemned to death, needs to express
intense sorrow and worry. But when re-
united with his family, he needs to con-
vey great joy.

Sophomore Lauren Howry, play-
ing Luciana, said, “They told us about
the masks— we knew from the get go.
In auditions, we were given a mask and
we had to work with it, we had to give
it a character. It’s a lot more interesting
because you need to be out into the au-
dience with your emotions... you don’t
have an ‘expression’.”

The play itself was very well re-
ceived. Thursday through Sunday’s
shows quickly sold out and extra seats
had to be added to accommodate more
people. The audience included com-
munity members, faculty, and students
of all years. Even prospective students
on campus for the Johnson competition
ﬂocked to see the play on Sunday after
their arrival.

Audience laughter and applause pep-
pered the hour and a half long perfor-
mance as the student actors effectively
translated Shakespeare’s slapstick humor
to the stage. Joseph D. Martinez, a W&L
theater professor, directed the play.

The next act to grace the Lenfest
Center is the already sold-out Nordwest
Deutsche Philarmonic on March 6"‘.

dress houe

in China. Unfortunately for the United
States, the center of power in China re-
sides most heavily with the nativist iden-
tity, which goals reﬂect the interest of
China only.

Professor Shambaugh is currently
teaching Political Science and Inter-
national Affairs at George Washington
University. He is the Director of the Chi-
na Policy Program in the Elliott School
of International Affairs and the Non-
Resident Senior Fellow in the Foreign
Policy Studies Program at The Brook-
ings Institution.

cor FERRELL/ staff photographer

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2012

arts&|ife

 

rossword

A-cross

1 Zodiac Sign of the peusori born this
week

3’ British mm director famous for sum
movies as Psycho. Rebetca. and The
Birds

8 AL.'Lhr.1: Iamuus for he: sputltimdmg
characters ant: thew enctmnmg
school

9 Host to the 2012 C'I',rr!Ir:-its

10 Strong coffee

11 wmners of SUILIEF Bowl J-QLVI

15 Aptitude; S_:‘.IL*L"mI ability

16 one of w&L's most prominent
features

18 Name shared by a secret 5rJ-'.'iet-,- and
a bridge on carrurus

20 Winrer of 201.2 Muck Con

23 Cancer hrr1r;Ir=1r.s‘Ir'r_; E.»-.-er1'. uzormng ‘.0
campus

24 Infamous day in Marat‘ r.1'uph-eslzed
by El seer

25 New software on the IPhDne 415

29 To see an outcome In .-;r-:Iv.~.=n1r.e

30 Big winner at he 84th Annual Gscms
[2 words)

Sudoku

m

I-4

.‘-‘s L-..‘- I'\.1

Lmwn

TI'IC- repnzated I;-;-:r;*rI;I:‘n2  ~;-I Sklll. |r..HI;w'.'rr
for nxaking p-:r‘!er;t~on

fast; hI_II’rICG

The 5’.I_Jr'Jy D" Lari"!

Dr‘. Seuss tI'IJI’.)r:t43r' -3l’:I<'.H.If. to star H" H13
UWII rnu'.ru_'

II'*.r‘|-0II‘C-r' ="I.3r"'u‘: For r"aonI'a‘-. 'T‘|II'£

In with the  , out W'Ill"* !'.I'|=;- I=‘n‘r“il'.'s
What '.'J&1_ was rl»:II?r:d in 17'-'49

.-'+r‘IIr‘naI I-mown Pin‘ IL5 '.r.-I-3«:I.’.>.'*‘u
Quick-w.tLed

W.;1:;Inrrg'.n:J'1..1r1r.I LL'L*"_-. sprung bull
‘;3','r‘r'1l}0I at me Ger‘:e!’€J|.<. rjesignecl In
‘.904

The c'.'}rrr—_>r_L .1r15'.-«er to «J puule

Rascal; sumerme who dl-£‘p:_'x?l‘h Iaum the
norm

C1114. cat the 1r_~ur1<fr-yrs DI the |"I.Im-.«'
jUurnaII'_~.nI rm:-ver1IervtoI the 19602..
graduate of '.'JE..L

lI'1‘.-'pIQl'a'.I'I.II

To give us, ‘.0 stop

Constellallrjn '_-.0-'ne.'.:rnes r.uIIer.I T‘1e
Hunter

A gourrey to find sornethlrig

 

.,..._,l.,.,..,_-u. cl4‘——>-<—~»-an .u..,;,,  .,-

DO YOU LOVE weL?
CONSIDER KATHEKON

What is Kathekon?

Kathekon comes from a Greek phrase meaning:
”to serve”. It is W&L’s ‘student alumni’ organization.
The juniors and seniors of Kathekon connect with top
administrators, learn about the history and workings
of W&L, help Alumni Affairs with campus events,
stay involved as alumni after graduation and is an
opportunity to network with alumni.

If you are selected, during the_2012-2013
academtc year you will:

0 Attend some interesting meetings to learn about
W&L past and present from senior University
representatives.

0 Help the Senior Class Gift Project

0 Provide reliable and valuable hand’s on assistance

to Alumni Affairs during large campus alumni
reunions.

0 Understand, embrace, and promote the speaking

tradition.

0 Be a leader of ”Philanthropy Day”, when students

thank our alumni.

0 Assist with the ”100 days” party and Senior Night

at Liberty Hall Ruins.

Membership Process:

Membership is by application only, limited to
rising juniors and seniors in good academic and general
standing in the W&L community. We seek a diverse
group of students who have a passion for W&L and wish
to deepen their connection with the University. Alumni
Affairs staff and current Kathekon members will conduct
interviews with designated finalists.

Please send your resume to ]en Utterback at
jutterback@w1u.edu by March 22nd.
Interviews will be scheduled for the week of
March 26th.

  

    

LEXINGTON LIMOUSINE & TRANSPORTATION LLC

www.Iexin
(540 461 -1 1 1 7

tonIimo.ne1: *** IexingtonIimo@yahoo.com
(540) 4-64-LIMO

SERVING ALL AIRPORT, AMTRACK & BUS LOCATIONS I

WE ARE THE ONLY LOCALLY OWNED & LEGALLY OPERATED
TRANSPORTATION BUSINESS IN THE AREA
Licensed * Insured * Bonded

DMV# S29

 

MONDAY, MARCH 5,2012

Lousy E&H pitching helps Generals dominate

W&L defeats E&H 1 5-3 in the second game of a double-header

By Julia Lancaster
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and «Lee baseball
team (4-6, 1-1 ODAC) took advantage
of poor pitching in the chilly Sunday af-
ternoon conference game versus Emory
& Henry (3-7, 1-1) to outscore their op-
ponents 15-3 at Cap’n Dick Smith Field.

A 57-person crowd watched on as the

second game in the double—header ver-
sus the Wasps displayed both the Gener-
als’ stellar patience at the plate as well as
talented hitting. Emory & Henry was off
to a decent start, scoring two unearned
runs. However, their pitching deterio-
rated in the second inning as they hit

Generals’ batter Alston James and gave
away three other walks, allowing W&L
a 6-2 lead.

Washington and Lee scored at least
one run the following four innings, se-
curing the 15-3 lead by the bottom of the
sixth. They collected season-highs with

15 runs and 14 hits. In stark contrast, the

-Wasps were done scoring after a third

unearned run in the top of the fourth.
Emory & Henry junior pitcher Jes-
sup Lambert took the loss, lasting a
mere 1.2 innings, surrendering six runs
on two hits and four walks. Generals’

‘ w-m
<) -‘7k‘
 
3'

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

batters Alex Maragos, Jonathan Stutts,
and Alex Malt proved most successful
at the plate with a total of 8 hits.

The Generals’ next game is Thursday
at Fermm.

Freshmen and sophomores: ware: tn learn more about marking inla leading
l?“l‘lo’i§'Slll“ié;’f":=' 1?--M114? apply by %«.l;ii'cli 2:3, 201? for a chalice to earn a spot in one at
3.1’. h..i.;ng=_.;si's"s. pn:»sti’ginus spatial '=.-'E‘i'lES. I hese e>:perise~paitl visits to our global
lieadi;e..i;az‘t«ais is’? New ‘mrl: (Jinx   the uiippnrtunitir to meet” inspiring people

'."-;ni:*; ii.=‘.~;.;:=»:*;i‘ii:—‘=ii.' *5? in." i,'tiiit:3i?lf Wil.’—li  like
i‘r.:i-.f1ii*i;-4, "aim"-.;'ss'r.h, Pumii: Fiiirwti .:m«:i :5:

ii U i  s:.: 

, . I“ ..n n.
I It ,,

l..;.i;.iim;l 
Event date:
Open to:

Frida“, A

2 if»:  " ‘
Meartzlz 1?}, Br‘

I
‘ .
L 1.1‘,
i. -;‘{-‘l.
‘K I\.“)
‘-is’
..i_

e pi‘
Blacac. l.iE-«[33!

 3 P

so wc»rl‘—i. in investment‘ Banlcing. Sales 3.
Risk. Tﬂli-it?’ part in job shiadnwS.. skin-
’e,;;, ".:-l."';‘.'.lI_.lil5 ai‘itl E'?%[".'l'.«’v’i..ll'it£lli!,£j.} Lsi;aiL:a.‘.:i li1i'iiii=;?5. A

an:::'= r~ia:i'-.~e !3.l'llE'l'iCai’l freshman at

S£iDi"l{)l'7lCll'l'.““;1l3"EI'»E‘ll §zI‘l‘,' rmiar with a minimum 3,5 GPA

Visit:

1-‘ ‘ ,~v:.

 ‘l:{'?_;.
Apply lav:
Event date:
Open to:

*2

 -.5. ?’:.} l 5:‘

ipziiitiirginz_c..niit.-"lei:um liii1,;-;‘%i::~atlei’s.

¥v'i{%1i«{‘.i‘k 15, 
f r”i!Zl.ﬁi\,', .l'\l,':I'ilri.' "
Wpi‘r"ien in their i"»:3sl“ii‘r:r:i‘i pr snplininnre year front any nianitii‘

*iEzi"i  i‘i’a~if'iisiii.;i';‘i ..-U1.» I'..il‘=-‘i

Visit:

‘lake  u::«::-;:-:::rtiinity in 7‘il£?+.”-,‘i =:;::ui‘  es ainl
WE‘ ~.’.liTJ. and l'!GW you can be part of it..

l£3:"llt".!lf’..?3F_iLII3~l‘ll_."z-.“ii?l:"T;f';?§a.'v’t)ll";IE¥ll

iearri ninre ab-slut who we are. -mat

jpmorgancom/careers

  JP Morgan

 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHl -

sports

 

MONDAY, MARCH 5,2012

ondeck

W&L triumphs over Washington College

Means leads the Generals to victory

By Ann Burton Gerhardt
STAF F WRITE R

Junior attackman Mac Means lead the
Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team in

Roanoke ; Ibertus an 1 1-10 victory over Washington College on

 

MON Tues WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
at vs
at
Baseball Ferrum (DH)
3’00Pm 12:00pm :O0pm
Men,S ‘vs. vs
Swarthmore F&M
Lacrosse 3:30pm 1:00pm
Women's "5' .3‘
Haverford Salisbury
Lacrosse 4:30pm 1:00pm
Men's
Tennis
at
, Hollins
Womens mopm
Tennis
at at
NCAA NCAA
Track Champs Champs
Golf

in the numbers

5

The win streak for the New York Rangers over the Boston Bru-

ins dating back to last season.The Rangers defeated the Bruins

4-3 on Sunday at Madison Square Garden.The Rangers have

also won 9 of their last 11 games against the Bruins.

2:53

Total amont of time that was taken off of the clock in the ﬁrst

period and added onto the clock in the second period in the

Rangers—Bruins game. The clock was altered after a shot by

Bruin Brian Rolston broke a pane ofglass.

17

The total number of trip|e—doub|es that Boston Celtic Rajon

Rondo has throughout his career. He scored 18 points and had

20 assists and 17 rebounds in Sunday's game against the New

York Knicks. The Celtics won in overtime 115-111.

6

The total number of home runs that Atlanta Braves

pitcher Julio Teheran allowed in two innings of

play against the Detroit Tigers on Sunday. The Ti-

gers hit 9 home runs overall and won the game 18-3.

 soapbox

“We are a team. No single individual
brought us to this day”

-Gal¢I1nnbaskalha|lp|qyarDougMcDonnott,who|ed

cnU‘rlonwlﬂI33poln1savar||Ilno|sSla1nlnthoMlsourl

ValIq0onferencechampIonshlpgame.McDennoI1was
seloo1ndtoumamentMVP.1'mmsI.oom

"[ Rory McIllroy] doesn’t look like a guy
who is going to burn out. He looks like he’s

going to be here for a while.”

-three-umo mqlorychamplon Padraig Harrington, mar
Mclllroywonthoﬂondaclaulcand roeetiollrilnthewoﬂd

ranldrumom S|.oom

 

/lagnus Saturday, ﬁnishing the game with four goals

and one assist.

During the first half ofthe game, the Gen-
erals struggled with weak defense. With only
two minutes left in the second quarter, the
Generals were down to the Shoremen 3-6.

Means was able to pick up a ground ball
and end the quarter with goal for the Generals,
bringing the score to 4-6.

The Generals came out for the second half
ofthe game ready to win.

Within the ﬁrst ten minutes of the third
quarter, the Generals were able to get offthree

goals and take the advantage over the Shore-
men 7-6.

Means scored the second goal of the quar-
ter off an assist from junior midﬁelder Luke
Heinsohn at the ten-minute mark. Junior mid-
ﬁelder John Rehberger scored the third goal of
the quarter, his ﬁrst goal of the season.

The quarter ended 9-7 in the Generals fa-
vor.

In the ﬁnal quarter of the game, Washing-
ton College was able to tie up the game for
the fourth time. The Shoremen and Generals
were tied 9-9 with less than 7 minutes left in
the game.

With 6:28 left, Means scoredoff an assist
from senior attackman Scott Meehan follow-

 

ing a turnover by the Shoremen. Meehan as-
sisted three out of the four goals Means scored
during the game.

This broke the tie and brought the Gener-
als in the lead, 10-9. Senior midﬁelder Sam
Mott followed suit, scoring off an assist from
Means with 5:30 remaining.

The Shoremen scored with the less than
three minutes left in the game, closing the
Generals two-point lead to l l-l0. The Gener-
als were able to maintain possession for the
win after a turnover by the Shoremen in the
ﬁnal minutes ofthe game.

Washington and Lee will host Swarthmore
on Wednesday at 3:30 pm.

., 3 it ’ “.1   
PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTSCOM

 

Women's tennis ﬁnishes on top at DePauw

Women win the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Indoor National Champs

By Leigh Dannhauser
spoars EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s tennis
team won the ITA indoor championships for
the ﬁrst time in the school’s history on Sunday.

After defeating Johns Hopkins University
on Friday, they defeated DePauw University
on Saturday to advance to Sunday’s ﬁnals
against Carnegie Mellon.

The Generals opened the day by taking two
of three doubles’ matches. The pairs of ﬁrst-
years Patricia Kirkland and Sonja Meighan
and ﬁrst-year Meghan Buell and senior Lau-

University in lndiana.

ren Lukas defeated the doubles’ teams of
Carnegie Mellon.

Meighan then was able to win the ﬁrst sin-
gles match of the day.

The Generals dropped the next three sin-
gles matches and were on the brink of losing
the title.

Senior Trelsie Sadler was able to keep
hope for the General’s alive by winning the
ﬁfth singles match.

It then came down to Kirkland, who

 

W&L’s Generals won the |TC’s National Indoor Championships Sunday, when they travelled to DePauw

clinched the title for Washington and Lee in
straight sets. V

Meighan and Kirkland stepped up as ﬁrst-
years and each went 2-0 against Camegie-
Mellon.

The Generals have already begun their out-
door season. They play again on March 10'‘
when they travel to fellow Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference team Hollins at 1:00 p.m.

. -. ,~ .x»:'3v~e_¢w .1.-g.....i  .r.i , .r.

@WLUWOMENSTENN|S

  

 

