      l-‘Ie|d[s]ofdreams.   p
, Volunteer goalie coach inspires players on
I both the ﬁeldhockey and lacrosse ﬁelds.

v

SPORTS / page 6

oamon    I   . it

*  -  - WASHINACTEON AND La: UN1\n3Rsr1“Y

THE RING-TUM PHI.. 

///
VOLUME CXV, NUMBER 18

0   

BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

' Prospectives get a sneak

MONDAY, APRIL 30, 2012

 

 

Accepted students were able to experience W&L academics and student life last week

New “'l'rospip” Statistics

By Graham Colton
CO PY E DITO R

On Accepted Students’ Day last
Wednesday, I93 admitted students from
34 states ﬂocked to Washington and Lee
University to get a head start on their
collegiate careers. Accompanied by 282
family members, 73 conﬁrmed students
and I20 unconﬁrmed students attended
a continental breakfast, panel sessions,
a Student Activities Fair and Residence
Hall tours, a luncheon and Department
Open Houses.

This special preview of the Univer-
sity was put on by the Office of Admis-
sions staff. “Accepted Students’ Day is
a chance for admitted students and their
families to see inside what it's like to
be a student at W&L,” explained Jenny
Ratzel ’07, Assistant Director of Ad--
missions. “It’s also a great opportunity
for students who are still undecided to
ask questions and learn more about the
school before conﬁrming."

With the University as their oyster,
high school seniors and their parents
ﬂooded the campus to go to college for
a day. Armani Smith, from Indianapolis,
IN, said: “Greek life is a pretty big deal
here...I went to a few frat parties last
night. They were pretty chill.”

Others, like Paulsboro, N.l native
Billy Davis, were in awe of a campus
where Robert E. Lee himself once re-
sided. “Nobody walked on the grass,”

Davis stated. Other admitted students
also revered the Honor System and the
school pride it has instilled in W&L stu-
dents past and present.

“[Wednesday’s] event was a success
thanks to the hard work of our staff, stu-
dents and faculty,” Ratzel said.

Lizzie Engel ’l3, coordinator of the
Student Recruitment Committee’s in-
volvement in Accepted Students’ Day,
served the students by “working the reg-
istration tables, leading campus tours,
manning information kiosks, and just
generally being around to help direct ac-
cepted students and their families.”

President Kenneth Ruscio and Wil-
liam M. Hartog, the Dean of Admis-
sions and Financial Aid, lent their time
to welcome visitors at the Keller Theater
of the Lenfest Center. Faculty members
also made themselves available to pro-
spective students at campus-wide De-
partment Open Houses. By doing so,
“students who are still undecided [may]
ask questions and learn more about the
school before conﬁrming,” said Ratzel.

Before going to the Activities Fair
on the Commons Lawn and touring the
Graham-Lees Dormitoryat midday, stu-
dents attended panel sessions on topics
ranging from athletics to research and
studying abroad. A future varsity athlete
who attended the athletics panel session

emphasized the value of school over
sports. He said, “Lacrosse doesn’t
come before academics.”

Other high school students, after at-
tending a research panel, were struck by
the breadth and availability of research
opportunities for undergraduate stu-
dents. Davis said he was “shocked that
one [student] had four different research
projects.”

Emily Streeper, an admitted student
interested in pre-med from Pennsylva-
nia, said she will matriculate here not
only for the “very strong neuroscience
department,” but also for “the research. ..
available after the ﬁrst year.”

Amy Hui, from Gretna, LA, ex-
pressed her excitement regarding “the
ability to do whatever [she] wants for
research.”

Several students were intrigued by
the diverse opportunities to study over-
seas. At the panel on studying abroad,
Smith said that there was “an All—Amer-
ican swimmer who studied abroad in
Spain.”

Virginia F eddeman, from Annandale,

VA, said she “liked the St. Andrews part—'

nership” and observed that the Scottish
university offers transferable credits in
an American-style system.

Yet, for all parties involved, the high-
light of the day was the chance to begin

' and leadership culmi-

building friendships
that will last beyond
the four short years on
campus. Ratzel’s fa-
vorite part of the day
was “watching the ad-
mitted students get to
know each other. They
start to form friend-
ships and bonds with
their classmates before
they even get to cam-
pus.”

In the afternoon,
students and families
chatted with one an-
other over lunch on
Cannan Green. The
Admissions Office’s
planning, coordination,

nated in eight events on
a day which, according
to Streeper, was “one
of the best, well run
[Accepted Students’
Days]” which she had
attended.

   

Grenier talks paparazzi at W&L

Contact Committee brings Actor Adrian Grenier to talk about teenagers and the media and. photography

ByTi|den Bowditch
STA F F WRITE R

Grenier poses with the CONTACT committee

Chapel

PHOTO COURTESY OF DIAN DRA SPICAK
after his speech in Lee

Adrian Grenier, best known as

'2 Vince Chase-in the HBO’s Entou-

rage, made an appearance in Lee

' Chapel on Tuesday, April 24. Wash-

ington and Lee was the last stop on
his college tour, during which he has
promoted his 2010 HBO documen-
tary Teenage Paparazzo, and starting
conversations with college students
about the effect of media and tech-
nology on the world.

“Whether it’s paparazzi or a kid
bullying on Facebook, we have to
start having conversations about how
to use the tools we have.” he stated.

Grenier invited the audience to
ask questions about the documentary
and the role of media and technology
in today’s world.

He described Teenage Paparazzo
as a documentary about a 14-year-
old paparazzo named Austin Viss-
chedyk. Grenier detailed going out
in Hollywood one night when he
noticed Visschedyk among the pa-
parazzi. “When I was 13, I was out
that late and I wasn’t doing anything
creative,” said Grenier.

Grenier started by making a

_ documentary about the teenager to

explore the society’s obsession with
celebrities. Now, he uses his foot-
age to start conversations around the
country about the media.

“There’s a wisdom in exchange,”
said Grenier. “It’s not enough to ab-
sorb what you’re bombarded with
by the media everyday. You have to
think about it and regurgitate it in
some way.”

Grenier said the public and the
paparazzi have to take responsibility
for the media produced today. “We’re
indulging this celebrity industry ﬁ-
nancially,” he said. The paparazzi

can claim that this indulgence is a‘
matter of survival for them, because
people pay for the scandalous shots
and salacious gossip.

When asked whether some ce-
lebrities court the paparazzi, Grenier
said they sometimes do. “If you’re
going to make a career choice to. be a
performer, you want people to watch
your performance,” he said.

Interestingly, he named Paris
Hilton as the ﬁrst postmodern “ar-
tiste” to use the tabloids as her can-
vas. “The stunts she pulled [for the
paparazzi] were kind of genius,” he
said. “I think Andy Warhol would be
proud.”

Greenier also pointed_ out that
with all the technology available
today, there’s more opportunity for
creativity than ever before. Accord-
ing to him, most people don’t realize
that technology is not “conﬁned to
the design dictated by Apple.”

“The real artists are the guys and
girls who can program,” he said.

In an age where it seems like ba-
bies are “out of the womb and onto
a computer,” Grenier states that it
is this generation’s responsibility to
learn to use technology and the me-
diacwell--he said people need to start
talking about these different tools,
how they’re being used, and how
they should be used. ‘

“I think we’re going to ﬁgure this
out,” said Grenier, holding his phone
in the air.

At the end of the discussion, Gre-
nier asked the audience to pull out
their iPhones, take a picture of them-
selves, and send it to him via his free
app, “Reckless Adrian Grenier.” Fol-
lowing the discussion, Grenier and
students went to the Commons Liv-

ing Room where several art pieces
related to the ﬁlm were on display.
Grenier then joined students at the
Alumni House for a reception and
photos.

(Oh, and if you missed it: When
asked who his best on-screen kiss
was with he said, “Politically speak-
ing, they were all fantastic, but not as
good as the real thing.”)

2 - THE RING—TUM PHI -

MONDAY, APRIL 30,2012

opinions

 

 

#whyiwishtwitterdidnotexist

@Justapersons.° @RingTumPhi Sooo not a fan of twitter #hearmeout

Let me start
off by saying
that I have a
Twitter ac-
count, so don’t
take the criti-
cal tone of this
column too se-
riously. While
it may seem
hypocritical
that I have such
strong feel-
ings against the
tweeting sensa-
tion that’ grips
the nation, I
feel as though I must make my voice
heard. Consider this my epic tweet:
#Ihatetwitter.

Let me explain: ﬁrst, there is
the conceited nature of the tweet. Why
is it that people think that the rest of the
world is so interested in what they are
doing? Do you really think anyone cares
that you’re eating breakfast, taking a nap,
or feeling nauseous? Why do we feel the
need to share every intimate detail of our
daily lives to people who are only fol-
lowing us to compare what we are doing
to what they are doing? Bringing me to
my next point: Twitter is nothing more
than a techno-

   

. bi. -
By Annie Persons
HEAD COPY" EDITOR

are trying to make known to
the rest of their friends what
they are doing...with their
other friends. Therein lies
the beauty of the “mention,”
which allows you to tag an-
other person in your tweet,
just in case “#nowwatching
Revenge with my besties”
wasn’t good enough. If you
can “tweet at” your “bes-
ties,” they too can broad-
cast their status to the world
of Twitter. And there is the
fact that people who can see
your tweets are called “fol-
lowers.” Followers. Need I
say more?

_ And, of course,
there is hashtagging, or
“trending.” Trending has
no clear deﬁnition on Twit-
ter, other than the unspoken
rule that the funnier or wit-
tier your trend is, the bet-
ter the tweet. I like to think
of trending as adding a little spice to a
tweet, taking it from something like,
“Just got to class” to, “Just got to class
#canileavenow?” In this case, the addi-
tion of a hashtag conveys the emotion
and adds a sardonic edge. Yet albeit the

Welcome to Twitter. _ ,
Find out what's happening, right now, with the
people and organizations you care about.

’ ing to craft a statement in less than 140

characters to promote not only our own
sense of self worth, but others sense of
us, is sad.

Even worse is the alarming
regularity at which Twitter is checked.
Surreptitiously whipping out one’s
phone during class simply to

logical way of
projecting to
your follow-
ers your dot on
the social road
map. When
was the last
time you saw
a tweet that
read, “At home on a Saturday night,” or

“my friends are all hanging out without

me?” No—when a person tweets, they

When was the last time you saw a tweet that read
-“At home on a Saturday night, ” or, “My friends are

all hanging out without me? ”

\

level of “spiciness” your tweet achieves

with its trend, the fact that we as Twitter

users would spend time and energy try-

WASHINGTON AND l£E UNIVERSITY

THE RING—TUM PHI.

check Twitter, or tweeting a
snide comment about some-
thing a teacher hasjust said in
class, takes rudeness to new
levels. I am guilty ofthis, and
I know I speak for the Twitter
community when I say that it
is humorous to read a tweet
with a funny quote from a
classmate or professor. But to spend time
that our parents have paid for (in a class

we “get to” be in) only to see what is go-

Username or email

Pas s w on:

D P.v2rnerr:be.r me - Forgot password?

New to Twitter? Sign up

Full name

Email

ing on in other classes, is absurd.

This brings me to my ﬁnal and
most sincere critique of Twitter. I ﬁnd it
ironic that something made to function
as a method of connecting people can
create such a sense of disconnect among
friends. Why would you check Twitter
when you’re surrounded by people, if
not to make sure that nothing “better” is
going on at the same time? Even. when
surrounded by their friends, I have seen
people (and I myselfhave done this) take
the precious moments they should be en-
joying together to, yes, check Twitter. It
is an unconscious (or conscious) attempt
to check out what the rest of the commu-
nity is doing and mentally compare it to
what you are_doing.

Again, I have to emphasize that
this column is meant to be a channel to

Passx-¢oI‘c

vent about Twitter. I hate Twitter because
it has made our community appear self-
absorbed and disconnected. But, like I
said, I have a Twitter and I tweet on a
somewhat regular basis. I have a Twitter
because it exists, and I have one in order
to feel like I “belong.” But, my wish is
that it didn’t exist. . .I hate Twitter.

Mission impossible

BCCOU

edit su
and

STAFFWRITERS

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MANAGING EDITOR JULIANNA SATTERLY
NEWS EDITOR NEIL HAGGERTY
OPINIONS EDITOR CAMPBELL BURR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR CYNTHIA LAM
SPORTS EDITOR LEIGH DANNHAUSER
HEAD COPY EDITOR ANNIE PERSONS

' TILDEN BOWDITCH
JONATHAN GUEST
ANDREW RENALDO
CATHERINE TINNEY
GABRIELLE TREMO
YATES WILBURN
COPY EDITOR GRAHAM COLTON
COY FERRELL
MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON

DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders

ntable. Through our reporting, we aspire

to spark discussions that lead to discovering

information that prompts change.

THE RING—TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media,Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise independent.TH_E RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to

bmissions for content and length. Letters
advertising do not necessarily reflect

the opinion of THE RING—TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of

libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060
FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PHI@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

  

CHRISTINA BENEDETTI

Campbell Burr describes her struggle to ﬁnd feminine work attire

. .’ “What is wrong
«- I ‘ with short?” my mom

' " ’ asks as I zip up the
newest “work skirt”
she has purchased for
me. It rides mid—thigh
 and looks more like
something I would
wear clubbing in Eu-
rope than in an ofﬁce.
“Mom, I can’t
wear this in an oﬁice!

. Are you kidding me?”

“It’s so cute
though. You’re a sum-
mer intern, it’s ﬁne.”

She makes a good point. Do I really need a
suit to get coffee and sit in a small cubicle en-
tering data into an Excel spreadsheet? Ehlih,
well-— yes. The male interns will be wearing
suits so I, of course, must be dressed in the
female equivalent. After a week of shopping,
it seems like there are few options, unless I
want to be “one ofthe boys” and ﬁll my ward-
robe with dull, black pantsuits.

We began the week shopping for pantsuits,
which my mom was not particularly excited
about. “Why would you try to dress like a
man?”

I agreed, but hoped that we would come
across a suit with a little feminine ﬂair. After
all, I’m not the only woman in the workforce.
I found some suit jackets that had a nice cut,
cute buttons, or were made by a designer
whose clothes usually ﬁt me well. When it
came time to try everything on in the dress-
ing room, I had the worst of luck. Every time,
the jacket would ﬁt but the pants would be
too short, too wide around the waist, or too

 

By Campbell Burr

OPINIONS EDITOR

baggy, sometimes so much so that my body
appeared lost in the suit (this is coming from
someone who wears all—black outﬁts like they
are her uniform).

After trying on one particularly dreadful
option, a positive idea came to mind. Well, if]
get apromotion, at least I will be 100% can-
ﬁdent that it s a result of my hard work. After
a few more bad options, I decided to move
on. Enough looking like a little girl trying on
her father’s clothes, time to scan the racks for

call. Maybe I could ﬁnd a few suitable pieces
and go from there. My mom decided that she
would look through her closet as well, since
we can usually ﬁt into the same size.

She lay all of her options across my bed.
Did she think I was interning for a housewife?
These were anything but business profes-
sionall One dress was sleeveless with a high
neckline and a white ﬂoral pattern. I put it
on. I was missing one thing! An apron. An-
other skirt was long and wavy, with a big bow

After trying on one particularly dreadful option, a positive

idea came to mind: Well, if I _get a promotion, at least I will
be 100% conﬁdent that it s a result of my hard work.

work dresses.

This pursuit was not as successful as I had
hoped and I began feeling like the world was
out to get me. Either I) I would ﬁnd a dress
that ﬁt me perfectly and then I would ﬁnd
some tacky detail, like a large silver zipper
across the front, that made it unbearable (kind
of like shopping for corduroys at Limited
Too: ﬁnding the perfect pair and then turning
them around to ﬁnd sparkles across the back
pockets). 2) I would come across lots of cute
dresses at a place where I frequently shop
but they would be made for someone with a
curvier ﬁgure. Maybe I should check the chil-
dren’s section?

After chugging a Double-Big Gulp of Diet
Coke, the ultimate moral booster, I decided
that revisiting my wardrobe would be a good

across the waist. I looked like a mom straight
out of the 1950s. I imagined walking into
work the ﬁrst day and asking my boss where
he had put my typewriter.

My mom has continued shopping for me
since and has fortunately had luck. Even
though many of my work dresses will be
black and have similar cuts, at least I will
know that I am not wearing the same thing
everyday.

So, next time you hear a boy complain-
ing about how hot he gets in his suit in the
summer, remind him to be thankful that he
can buy all of his suits, shirts, and ties in one
place and never worry about whether or not
he looks “work appropriate.”

‘P

 

 

 

MONDAY, APRIL 30,2012

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI ~

 

opinions

  
   

 

Just about
' two weeks ago,
after an unbear-
ably long and
T horribly predict-
able « primary
season, Mr.
 Santorum gave
up his campaign
for the Republi-
can nomination
for ' President
following the
release of poor
polling numbers
out of his home
state of Pennsylvania and the illness of
his daughter. This added to his poor per-
formance in the primaries in Maryland,
Washington D.C., and Wisconsin, where
Mitt Romney swept the ﬂoor to 655 of
the 1,144 delegates he needed to clinch
the Republican nomination. This put him
miles ahead of political arch-nemesis
Rick Santorum, who at the time carried
only 278, despite commanding wins in
numerous states that truly represent the
identity of America; states like Colora-
do, Tennessee, North Dakota, Louisiana,
Iowa, Alabama, and Mississippi. This
string of losses and the overwhelming
odds Santorum suffered put his cam-
paign on the ropes. The majority of ana-
lysts and my fellow Republican voters
across the country at the time were ten-
tatively removing their necks from their
suspended belts (probably brown belts to
go with those great Sperrys they bought
last year) to delay the merciful embrace
ofDeath, ﬁnally reconsidering the worth
of our lives after Santorum’s concession.
Regardless, Santorum’s refusal to bow to
the harsh mistress that is reality contin-
ued until his concession on April 10th,
Santorum appeared dead-set on fighting.
I’d like to offer my own opinion on why
Santorum failed to clinch the nomina-

By Yates Wilburn
COLU M N I sr

tion, some notes on his seemingly sense-
less determination, and a few tips on
what he could have done to improve his
chances of victory.

Santorum’s poor performance in the
primaries can be partially attributed

to the fact that he was very busy with

other pursuits that took up much of his
time. These notable endeavors include
prominent roles on a couple of Comedy
Central TV shows, expanding negative
Catholic stereotypes to a new genera-
tion of voters, not to mention efforts to
weed out several undesirables from the
ranks of the Republican Party (nobody
we’d miss+just Hispanics, blacks, gays,
women, poor people, college students,

college grads, and white collar profes- I

sionals).'However, his poor electoral
performance, busy schedule, and not
even math deterred him from seeking

vindication in the eyes of the Republi- "5

can Party,vAmerica, and probably a fa-

ther that never said,“Good job, son.”:':.
No! He continues to ﬁght on, for as he -.

said (a mere week before conceding) it
was “only half-time” in the Republican
primary season, and this church league
basketball game has a no mercy rule...
unless what you’re referring to is San-
torum’s mercy in conceding to the other
team and letting all the bored parents go
home and watch real basketball on TV.
Rick Santorum’s determination and
courage to tell the truth about the gay
conspiracy to destroy the country, to
mumble half-formulated racial slurs, and
to stare American women right in the
uterus with a straight face and tell them
that the pill is dangerous has inspired me
so much that l’ve decided to give him a
few tips for any future pursuits for the
White House. Here are a few things in
his campaign he could have done better.
If Santorum’s campaign was going
to have any shot at the White House, it
had to get back some ofthat momentum

/ ‘WHGOSHI’ ‘and then 

it had just a few short weeks before the
Pennsylvania primary. What better way
to do that than to roll out a fresh, new
campaign slogan! Santorum needed
something catchy, short, and memorable
that really_sp_‘o_ke_to the issues that Amer-
ilcanisiicare about} Here at‘€’a“fevt?g:sugges-
tions: r ,

Rick Santorum for President:

1. “Protecting your right to re-consi‘
er your party affiliation!”

 
  
  
 
 

2. “Le,ading.,ttte_ ﬁght against all them “‘

smarty coll;  with their big words
and fancy  1earnin’1!?.’:

.3. “Defending'America’s youthufrorn F

 

the dark arts  and
math!” r  

'4. “If I can’t be President,‘.nvo R
1ic9n_c.a.n!”  
5."r“Protectix:t§??

      
  
   
  

. BL,f§iMO!’ and
Willis is all

  

lil<Te‘!“yi!ppe::l!eWi_kaiyay!’ andfthen shoots the .
 bad guy in flab fa

6. “It’s_,__l;l,1!§S5cf"fr1eanies in the pi”, 
box, hriiade me look sm lid! Iwanna
do-over!” ~ " ..7”* A 

7. “Why doesn’tanybody love me?!”

8. “I’m not  swear! Stop laugh-
ing guys,,it’s not funny! Come on! I’m
super serial!”

9. “Saving America from the coming
onslaught of Manbearpig!”

I’m sure one of those slogans would

‘have cast aside Santorum’s appearance

as that weird kid that’s always inviting
himself to hang out with you and your
friends only to get into pointless argu-
ments with everyone, making it real
awkward for you, because you don’t
want him to be around anymore but you
really don’t want to just tell him to leave,
but he just doesn’t seem to take any hints
that he’s not welcome and then he gets

the 3‘  .

all angry and. . .well, you understand.
Now, if he had made that adjustment
and still lost in his home state of Penn-
sylvania, I’m afraid that no amount of
creative calculus or mental gymnastics
(despite the three Olympic gold medals
he’s won in the sport) would prevent him
from seeing that he just couldn’t get the
delegates to win the nomination. . .before
the convention. There is always around

 An analysis of Rick Santorum’s defeat  

resents what he calls a “humorous, misinformed, and horrendously biased” View of the Republican rimary

Yeah, I know he told ichelle Bachman
to be president, but that’s impossible be-
cause she’s a woma...uh, not conserva-
tive enough!”

5. “...the Republican base loves me!
What do you mean they’ll vote for who-
ever we throw at them because they have
nowhere else to go?’” .

6. “...I’m a real blue-collar guy!
Where did I go to law school you ask?

4 [Rick Santorum is ability] to stare American women

 in the uterus with a straight face and tell them

 thaif the pill is dangerous has inspired me...

   
 

f of the voters.” ‘
 1’1ch like the general election’s elec-

   
   
   

'31 college, the Republican presidential

 rimaries’ delegates serve as a fail-safe

inechanism that makes sure things don’t

» get too democratic...why, that would be

utter madness! “Normal people” picking
the nominee, ha! So, with that in mind,
Rick Santorum could have always gone
to the Republican National Convention
in Tampa, waited for the delegates to
be freed from any obligations after the
lst ballot, and then run around asking
them to vote for him as the nominee if

he didn’t get the popular vote. Romney’s '

tens of millions more of these annoy-
ing little “popular votes” would have no
value in such a situation. A few things
he could say that may persuade the free
delegates could be “you should vote for
me because...”

1. “...I’m more conservative!”

2. “...I’m not Mitt Romney!”

3. “...I talk about issues that Ameri-
cans REALLY care about! What? No,
not the economy!”

4. “. . .God said I should be President!

What was my net income last year you
ask‘? Uh. . .”

7. “. . .I can really relate to the average
American’s struggle! What? Of course
I’ve had a job before! During law school
I interned at my Senator’s office! Private
sector, what does that matter?”

8. “...it’s what Republican vot-
ers want! No, I do think the primaries
were democratic but...well these 2000
delegates are just better informed and I
think...no I’m not saying we should go
back to the ‘smoke-ﬁlled room’ days, I
just...NO YOU STOP IT!!! Mitt Rom-
ney isn’t going to keep me from my des-
tiny just because a few million Repub-
lican voters don’t see the threat of the
gay agenda and women going to school!
No, I’m not sexist, I wanna be president!
I wanna be PRESIDENT! Whaaaaah-
hhh! !! Where’s my juice box?!”

If he had done all that, how could he
have possibly lost?

tothe editor

First things ﬁrst: l‘m old. I was a Lambda here in undergrad and next year
l‘ll start my third year oflaw school. l‘ve been around long enough to see a few
things change.

We used to have a newspaper worth reading at this school: The Trident. It
was lewd. It was profane. lt ﬂirted with slander while stomping on feelings, and
it never apologized. it was absolutely amazing. As a freshman and sophomore,
I watched the Trident verbally butcher my frat and others in issue after issue.
The discourse represented what most of us said in private, and the public airing

‘of grievances sometimes leant an almost cathartic, though occasionally only
enraging. texture to the articles. From the Bracket of Awfulness to the Bear’s
monthly dispensation of probably manically depressed vitriol. the paper insisted
on thick skins—an insistence that I think we could all beneﬁt from.

With genuinely hurtful student journalism in mind, I laughed out loud when
l saw the Special Editions histrionic bedwetting over Georgia Robertson’s at-
tempt at a presumably honest frat breakdown. Her article was a ball of Play--
Dough inside a velvet glove compared to the brutal sledgehammer of what
ought to genuinely offend and horrify young adults. if someone can explain to
me the evil in mentioning one group’s coke habit or another‘s social indiffer-
ence—\-vhen, to a certain extent, both exist——l‘d be much obliged. As much as
I value the Phi’s legendary ability to bore a cokehead to sleep after an 8ball on
Windfall. I for one appreciate the occasionally provocative Op-Ed. Not only do
major newspapers print themwalheit absent profanity~but such opinions rep-
resent and condense what W&L students blather about on a daily basis. Opin-
ions belong in the opinions section. How simple is that? And although Ms. Rob-
ertson won‘t win any awards for bravery, she deserves credit, not condemnation,
for more or less accurately summarizing bits and pieces of what a lot ofus think.

"The problem here is not content——free speech certainly extends its worn
and weathered shield to the mildly offensive~but anonymity. There’s nothing
wrong with an Op-ed expressing opinions based on experience. l, for example,
think that many Guy Phis always look vaguely unwashed. But I’m willing to
attach my name to what I write. Brutal honesty is only worth publishing if its
author accepts accountability. And more brutal honesty results in fewer Phi‘s
ending up next to the toilet, and in more ending up in dining rooms and on front
porches, inspiring debate.

That said, I understand why the Trident ofold had to go. Although much of
the school continued to love it, the paper became too vicious, too indifferent
to consequence or decency to continue—it spiraled out of control. And so the
Ring Tum Phi assumed the mantle ofour sole publication, doing so with a staid,
almost puritanical conservatism that esehewed the provocative like Cadavers
eschew relevance. There‘s something to be said for such “serious” journalism,
but l would love to see some ofthe Trident‘s subject matter return, its unfettered
salaciousness tempered by the restraint of responsible oversight. The Phi’s read-
crship would benefit. And even laugh occasionally.

Student Voices:

Career Advice

“Career Services offers a unique opportunity to
get a jumpstart on your career”

“Don’t liwtit yourself to one

path, explore different ideas”

“Pay attention to Career Services
updates. I found an internship I never
would have expected there”

“Make sure to put yourself in a position to

--Nathan Jensen

accept every awesome opportunity”

“Network, netu/or/<, network”

Career Services  

 

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

arts&life

 

MONDAY, APRIL 30,2012

   
   
   
   
   
   

    Top 10 Wildest Spring Term classes ,

Forget about tubing down the Maury; these wacky, exciting and outrageous courses put the fun ’in Spring Term

By Gabrielle Tremo
S TA F F w R I T E R

Spring Term: home of the four week
class. Whether you’re planning ahead
and getting rid of some FDRs, adding
credits to your major, travelling abroad,
or you’re going out on a limb and tak-
ing something you never even thought
existed, Spring Term is the perfect time
for it. Speaking to students, I found that
many of them decided to -use Spring
Term as an outlet to take the SL credit
they’ve always been dreading, or the
HA credit they were never able to ﬁt
into their classes. But, at the heart of it,
Spring Term is a “semester” famous for
its “out-there" classes. This article pro-
vides a glimpse into the core of Spring
Term to show us what the classes we all
wanted to take but couldn’t (or were too
scared to) are all about.

Music 102: Physics & Per-
ception of Music
Love music? Looking to

fulﬁll your SL credit? Here’s the class
for you. This course takes music as we
all understand it (aka, with our ears)
and translates it into what it’s doing at
the scientiﬁc level. From that, the class
tells you how your brain is listening and
interpreting the sounds you’re hearing.
As a lab science, there’s a lot of“hands-
on” work with music. By the end of the
course, you’re designing an auditorium
with the best materials and acoustics for
transmitting sound. With only a high
school understanding of physics neces-
sary, this class begins our list because
it combines something a lot of us love
with just enough science to mess with
our minds.
Highlight of the Class: Weekly jam
sessions every Friday? Sign me up.
9 losophy of Time Travel
Time Travel: the topic
that will incite the most heated debates
at the dinner table, sometimes even more
so than politics or religion. This class
explores the debate of what happens
when time travel occurs and what might
happen if you kill your great-great-
great-grandfather while in the time loop.
The course looks at movies that have

Philosophy 385: The Phi-

WAR GN li)Rl'JG*S C*i@N(°?'ERT -

Maﬁa Track Suit opened the War on Drugs
concert last Monday, which ran from 7:00-
10:00 pm. The free, live performance brought
students and community members together
for an evening of fun, music, and relaxation, to
ofﬁciallykick off Spring Term! The event was
sponsored by WLUR, Student Affairs, and the
General Activities Board. What a great way to
start the week!

depicted time—travel and contemporary
physicists’ views on the possibility and
implications oftraveling through time.

Highlight of the Class: Getting to
discuss movies like Terminator. Back to
the Future, and Planet ofthe Apes, all in
one class.

Nothing

I know what you’re all ask-
ing, and I understand. In an attempt to
explain what this class is, I may indeed
fail. This‘ course doesn’t teach subject
matter as much as it teaches the absence
of subject. A Course About Nothing
strives to teach students about different
methods ofthinking in different states of
mind, such as critical thinking, reading,
writing, imagining, rcﬁecting, contem-
plating, meditating, and dreaming, just
to name a few. '

This class explores the ideals of Zen
and other forms of meditation. To ex-
plain what I cannot, here is a sentence
from the syllabus: “This course is an
introduction to contemplative studies
(an emerging academic discipline) that
includes science, neuroscience, and a
philosophical-political inquiry of noth-
ing (of those .‘things’ that supposedly
aren’t: selﬁessness, emptiness, negation,
and freedom)”

Highlight of the Class: If you were
looking for a way to get your thoughts
organized over Spring Term, you‘ve
found it.

Film 285: Music in Stanley
’ Kubrick Films

Fan of The Shining? A C lock-
work Orange? 200/: A Space Odyssey?
This course explores the iconic nature of
these ﬁlms and, speciﬁcally, the music
within them. The purpose ofthis class is
to analyze what music choices Kubrick
made and how they inﬂuence the ﬁlms
through their presence. And, of course,
they do this by watching Stanley.Ku-
brick ﬁlms. _

Highlight of this Course: Being in
a room with a bunch of people while
watching Stanley Kubrick ﬁlms and see-
ing everyone’s reactions. Priceless.

8 Politics 297: A Course About

In honor of Holocaust"  
Remembrance Week, V f 
Hillel organized a vigil '
to take a stand against ,
oppression, especially . ,» , 
in light of the recent L’
events in Darfur, as well A
as tragedies in Bosnia,
Kashmir, and Germany.

The night, which began“ A
at 7 pm at Hillel House
last Thursday, featured a
variety of readings and
music to remember all
those who were lost.

Film 195: Music Video Pro-
duction

Whenever you and a friend
are listening to music you both like, how
many times have you turned to them and
said, “Have you seen this music video?”
Today, music videos are everywhere:
from a guy getting painted into the wall
in “Somebody I Used To Know” to the
latest Lonely Island single. FILM 195
looks at what goes into making a music
video and how to make one. From look-
ing at how to stage your video, to decid-
ing which lights and lenses are needed
to shoot it, to determining what effects
to add in during editing,-this class is lit-
erally the whole show.

Highlight ofthe Class: Making your
own music video and becoming the next
YouTube sensation (for better or for
worse).

Computer Science 251:
5 iPhone Application Program-
ming

Let’s face it: most of us have smart-
phones. After all, were students and
we need a computer in the palm of our
hands. We play our music on our way
to class, check e-mails to see where the
parties are, and look at what free apps
are available today. CSCI 251 has that
student in mind, by offering an entire
class about programming iPhone appli-
cations. Over the course of four weeks,
students learn how to program, produce,

and publish their own inventions. This"

Computer Science course uses Objec-
tive-C programming language compat-
ible with the iOS used on iPhone, iPad,
and the iPod Touch. For those who have
taken CSCI 112 or another pre-req, this
is a great way to expand some of your
computer languages to include a device
you use everyday.

Highlight of the Class: Uploading
your created app to the Apple Store...
and then buying it (aka getting all your
friends to get it as well).

English 255: Superheroes
4 We all have our favorite
superhero. Some like Super-
man, others have Spiderman lunch-

  
  
 

boxes, while a couple of us still wear
Batman pajamas (you know who you
are). So how about a class all about su-
perheroes? In reading everything from
the classic The Scarlet Pimpernel, to
studying Gladiator, to reading the ac-
claimed graphic-novel Watchmen, this
class looks not only at the “superhero”
as deﬁned by literature, but also at the
classic idea of what makes someone a
superhero.

Don’t be fooled by the “ENG” in the
beginning of “ENG 255”— Professor
Gavaler makes a great effort to pull in all
different sources, everything from old-
time comics to radio serials to movies
to Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog. This
course, which surveys everything from
the presence of superheroes in literature
to cultural impact of Nietzsche’s idea of
the superman, will deﬁnitely appeal to
every student’s sense of adventure.

Highlight of the class: As if this
weren’t already cool enough, the release
of Marvel’s The Avengers falls right at
the end of Week Two. '

Mathematics 369: The Math-
ematics of Puzzles & Games

To non—Math/Physics/En-:

gineering majors, the use of the word
“Mathematics” and “Games” might be
puzzling. But this class is, literally, all
fun and games (and math). The purpose
of this class is to look at board and puz-
zle games and to ﬁnd the mathematics
behind them to better understand how
the game works and how to beat your
friends at them.

When I asked Professor Dymacek for
the syllabus to write this article, he told
me, “That’s a little tricky. Because, you
see, the syllabus changes from year to
year depending on what the students de-
cide to play.” The students choose what
games they want to study and as a class
they learn and play them. All Spring
Term long. This is a 300 level Math
course, but I would be lying ifl said it
didn’t make me want to become a math
major. This year they are studying new-
er games such as Quoridor and Blockus,
as well as classics like learning the algo-
rithm to solving the Rubik’s Cube.

Highlight of the Class: Learning the
secrets to winning your favorite board
game? Can someone say, “Monopoly
Tournaments?”

Engineering 295: Concrete
Canoe

Every year the American
Society for Civil Engineers puts on a
competition to see_if students can design
and race a canoe made of concrete. And,
while I’m asking, “How is this even
possible?” a group of W&L students is
busy ﬁguring out how to do it. This class
combines the disciplines of engineering,
physics, and chemistry to conjure up
something that seems literally impossi-
ble. Together as a class the students will
design, produce, and enter the competi-
tion with a concrete canoe of their own
to race against other students. Needless
to say, “awesome.”
Highlight of the Class: “Defying the
laws of physics” looks pretty impressive
on a resume.

Chemistry 155: Science of
1 Cooking: Italy

One of Spring Term’s most
popular and sought after courses,
CHEM 155 looks at the chemistry in-
volved in cooking. This year the class
takes place abroad in a country whose
culture is food: ltalia! The course covers
what happens when you cook everyday
things like meat, vegetables and fruits
but also some other culinary devices like
gels, foams, and emulsions. Lectures
with complementary traditional Italian
cooking lessons and ﬁeld trips to vari-
ous factories (cheese, chocolate, gelato,
and wine... just to name a few) turn this
class into the perfect mix of education
and vacation.

Dr. France, the professor in charge
of the trip, said, “The course is a great
way for students to fulﬁll their science
FDR in a fun and interesting way that
has practical applications they can apply
to their daily lives.” I believe her.

Highlight of the class: Can you say
“Eaming your SC credit while eating
gelato?” Yum.

 

 

MO N DAY, APRIL 30, 2012

5 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

ANIDBEW REL IALID0

 

most valuable player. »

2011-l2NBAMVP.

Voters will most likely crown Lebron James as the 2011-12
NBA MVP in the coming weeks. If I were given a ballot, however,
I would not choose “King” James. While James deserves recogni-
tion for his incredible statistical feats this season, I believe Chris
Paul is more deserving of the award."

It’s only fair to begin by admitting my opinion may be
slightly biased. I am not a Lebron fan, and have not been since his
ﬁnal years in Cleveland. I do not blame him for leaving Cleveland
as many do, but instead dislike his apparent lack of maturity. Yes,
Lebron speaks well, has avoided trouble despite entering the league
as a teenager, and seems like a kind person. Yet he does not seem
to be honest with himself. He has cosigned on having his own
line of Nike shoes, “witness” ad campaigns, “chosen one” tattoos,

‘ premature preseason title parades, and a nationally televised “Deci-
sion,” all of which suggest he wants to be the center of attention
and associated with greatness. His passivity during big moments,
however, implies his reluctance to accept challenges—challenges that, though they may lead to
failure, ultimately help good players grow into great ones. Wanting the attention and deferring
your responsibilities to others when faced with pressure does not ﬁt my description ofthe league’s

 

sports

JONA'l‘llAN GUEST

Is Lebron Iames this season’s NBA MVP?

Andrew and Jonathan decide if King James

deserves his Crown

Chris Paul, on the other hand, has invigorated an entire franchise through his leadership.
As a point guard should, Paul masterfully sets up teammates in their preferred positions on offense
while taking over the scoring load when his team needs it. He also paces himself throughout the
game so that he excels in the fourth quarter. Because of Paul, the Clippers have become a legiti-
mate contender after so many years as the laughingstock of the NBA.

It is true that Paul’s statistics do not compare to James’s. Lebron ﬁlls out the stat sheet _
every night like he is playing in a video game. His abilities on both offense and defense are amaz-
ing. Yet against the best teams in the league this season, Lebron has failed to make any statements
of intent by dominating those games. This implies that while we try to ignore Lebron’s shortcom-
ings in last season’s Finals when deciding this year’s MVP, James has not shown enough to sug-
gest that his incredible numbers are all that meaningful.

James’s domination of regular seasons and subsequent postseason struggles force ana-
lysts to decide how much context they should consider when choosing an MVP. While it may not
be fair to do so, it is hard not to have some skepticism surrounding Lebron’s success this season,
when in the past he has had so much difﬁculty with handling Playoff pressure. From this perspec-
tive, his impressive statistics seem shallow. For a historical analogy, think of Karl Malone winning
the MVP over Michael Jordan in 1998. Malone may have had bettertnumbers, but it did not seem
quite right; given their reputations, almost everyone would have bet their mortgage on MJ beating
Malone in the Finals. In that case, which player is really more valuable?

That consideration leads me to the ﬁnal factor in choosing the MVP: deﬁning “most
valuable”. I think that the term means more than impressive statistics._ Voters should think about
how essential a player is to his team. Without Chris Paul, the Clippers would be near the bottom
of the Western Conference. With him, they are the West’s 4-seed in the Playoffs. The Heat would
also suffer without James, but they also have Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh to pick up the slack.
Moreover, Paul is a ﬁery competitor and natural ﬁoor general. If I were in an NBA foxhole, I
would want Paul rather than James by my side. For this reason, I would choose Chris Paul as the

3 point percentage.

should.

The most common argument put forth in support of the decision for Rose involved his league
leading record at 62-20. However, it is hard to ignore the 58-24 Miami Heat who garnered 11 more wins
than the previous year without J ames. So the case rests on the four game lead of the NBA’s top team
over the 2nd place ﬁnishers. This is troubling for two reasons: V

First of all, it is no secret that given the grueling 82-game regular season and with the elusive
' NBA title being the primary goal, it is in the best interests of teams who have already clinched playoff
berths to slow down and rest their big-guns in the weeks leading up to the playoffs. As a result, there
must be seeds of skepticism present in any analysis that places any weight in late-season outcomes. And
further, the Heat’s dismissal of the Bulls in 5 games to claim the Eastern Conference Title (including 4
straight wins) lends support to the notion that the Bulls were not even the better team.

The unfortunate reality behind the Derrick Rose MVP award (and several others) is that the
criteria have become subjective. Not only is there no clariﬁcation as to what it means to be the Most
Valuable player, but those who are trusted to make an objective evaluation of the best players have
allowed their personal biases and partiality toward underdogs and feel-good—stories to obstruct their
professionalism. In the wake of “The Decision,” several people longed for a James failure. NBA fans
were disgusted with his sense of entitlement and his indifference toward the well being of any particular
franchise, especially his “hometown” Cavaliers. I get that. But when we start choosing the award based
on who we like rather than who deserves to win we sacriﬁce the award’s integrity and stain the achieve-
ments ofNBA greats from years past. Lebron James has been the best player in the NBA for the past 4
years. He is certainly the most valuable player in the league. If he doesn’t get the trophy, then nobody

Th‘e NBA’s “Most Valuable Player” award is the ultimate testament
to the accomplishment of a basketball player. While for many NBA
success is effectively synonymous with NBA championship rings, it is
hard to imagine a deﬁnition of successful by which Karl Malone and
Charles Barkley are inferior to Chauncey Billups . Because basketball
is a team game, less talent fused with superior chemistry often trumps
individual dominance. As a result, any answer to the question: “who is
the NBA’s best player?” requires a great deal of speculation. It is the
understanding of many (including myself) that this designation is the»
responsibility of the NBA analysts, sportswriters, and broadcasters who
vote each April to determine which player will be crowned “MVP”.

If you accept the common belief that NBA MVP is the best play-
er, then in recent years you may have been rather surprised with the
winners. For example, it is hard to make a case for any player outside
of Kobe Bryant in any year between 2005 and 2008. Yet, his single
Podoloff Trophy suggests otherwise. Similarly, Derrick Rose’s 2011
MVP award ﬂew in the face of a Lebron James campaign that apart from a minor drop in blocks per
game and a spike in ﬁeld goal percentage form 48.9% to 51.0% was essentially a statistical replica of his
MVP performance 2 years prior. Compared with Rose’s numbers, the James advantage is unmistakable.
James bested Rose in points, averaged 3.4 more rebounds, and averaged 0.6 more steals. Most notably
however, James held the edge in ﬁeld goal percentage by a full 6.5%. Rose (a point guard) averaged 0.7
more assists, shot 10% better from the free throw line, and held a statistically insigniﬁcant advantage in

Genniestake home bronze

Generals break three ODAC Championship Meet records among four ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes

By Catherine Tinney
STA F F W RIT E R

At the end of Spring Break,
both the men’s and‘women’s track teams
placed third at the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championships hosted
by Lynchburg.

On the men’s side, Lynchburg
won with 216 points, and Bridgewater

‘took second with 122 points. Washing-

ton and Lee ﬁnished the two-day meet
with 75 points.

W&L was led by the strong
performances of sophomores Zander
Tallman and Dillon Myers.

Tallman won both the 200 and
400 meter dashes. He ran the 400 in

48.46 seconds and then came back to run
the 200 in an ODAC championship meet
record time of 21.56 seconds. Tallman
was also a member the 4x 1 00 meter relay
that placed second. The relay, consisting
of Tallman, fellow sophomores Agustin
Kim and Parker Howard, and ﬁrst-year
Aaron Jeong, got the baton around the
track in a time of 42.82 seconds.

Myers scored in ﬁve differ-
ent events. He took home second place
in the 400 meter hurdles with a time of
54.90 seconds. He ﬁnished fourth in the
highjump with a leap of 1.86 meters. He
also took home three different ﬁfth place

ﬁnishes. Myers placed ﬁfth in the long
jump with a mark of 6.37 meters, the
triplejump with ajump of 12.61 meters,
and thejavelin with a throw of49.37 me-
ters.

1 Leading the way for the wom-
en’s team was senior Natalie Stier and
ﬁrst-years Janey Fugate and Jillian Kat-
terhagen.

Stier, competing in the last
meet of her career, came in ﬁfth in the
steeplechase in a time of 12:46.88. This
was just the second time she had ever
run the event. Stier also placed second in
the 400 intermediate hurdles. This time

is signiﬁcant, as the 2010 champ in the
event ran 1:05.45.

First-year Janey Fugate was
the lone competitor to defeat Stier, com-
pleting the race in an ODAC champion-
ship meet record time of 1:04.41.

Stier and Fugate were also
members of the 4x100 and 4x400 meter
team. The 4x100 meter placed second.
Stier and Fugate were joined by junior
Marissa Thompson and sophomore Julia
Murray. They were able to get the ba-
ton around the track cleanly in a time of
50.17 seconds.

Murray also ran as a part of the

enerals continue to upset    

W&L makes it to ODAC tournament ﬁnals after defeating the second and third seeds

By Leigh Dannhauser
sPoRTs EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s men’s lacrosse
team continues to surprise the Old Do-
minion.Ath1etic Conference. The sixth
seed has upset two back-to—back oppo-
nents in the lose-and-go-home champi-
onship tournament.

On Wednesday W&L played third
ranked Hampton-Sydney in the quarter-
ﬁnal game. They held a 6-2 lead in the
second quarter and were able to hold off

a comeback attempt to win 9-8.

First-years Cam Lewis and Garrett
Paglia, and junior Jack Switala led the
way for the Generals with two goals
apiece. First-year Warren Berenis played
the entire game in the net with ﬁve saves.

W&L then faced off with second seed
Roanoke in the ODAC semiﬁnal game
on Saturday.

The game was close in the first half.

The Generals jumped out to a 2-0 lead
but then the Maroons were able to tie
the score up at 3 all by the end of the
ﬁrst quarter with the help of two goals
byjunior Richard Lachlan. Senior Scoot
Meehan then scored four of his game-
high ﬁve goals in the second quarter. The
Generals entered halftime leading 8-6.
It was a lead that they would not relin-
quish.

There was a lull in the scoring during
the third quarter, but the Generals were
able to tack on two more goals to their
lead and were up 10-6 entering the ﬁnal
quarter of the game.

Roanoke was unable to make a dent
in W&L’s lead.

Over the course of the game Roanoke
took 56 shots compared to W&L’s 32.
Only 50% of Roanoke’s shots were on

Tennis teams ace ﬁnals

Men and women each go 5-0 in the ODAC Championship Finals

By Leigh Dannhauser
spoars EDITOR

Both the men’s and women’s tennis
teams took home the Old Dominion Ath-

' letic Conference crowns on Sunday.

The men cruised through the tourna-
ment throughout the week. This contin-
ued in their match versus Bridgewater
College for the ODAC title. Washington
and Lee won the match 5-0.

The Generals started off the day by
sweeping the doubles’ matches. The

duos of junior Hayden White and ﬁrst-
year Taylor Shamshiri and seniors Mac
Davis and Brian Roberts defeated their
respective Eagles opponents by a score

' of 8-4. Seniors Jeremy Becht and Ben

Fass defeated the pair of ﬁrst-year Chris-
tian Lynn and junior Peter Hawkins by a
score of 8-3.

W&L easily won the ﬁrst two singles
matches to be contested to seal the vic-

4

tory. Roberts defeated sophomore Sam
Churchill in two games 6-2, 6-4. Fass
earned a 6-2, 6-1 victory over Lynn.

Similarly, the women’s team had a
similarly easy time winning the ODAC
title versus Hollins. The women swept
the doubles’ matches and won the ﬁrst
two singles’ matches.

Sophomore Cameron Dorsey and
senior Jen Snyder won the number one

doubles match 8-1, while seniors Lauren
Lukas and Treslie Sadler defeated soph-
omore Priscila Montoya and her sister,
junior Karen Montoya, in the number
two match. In the number three doubles
match, ﬁrst-years Sonja Meighan and
Meghan Buell defeated ﬁrst-years Sarah
McCormick and Victoria Coffee 8-0.

In the two singles matches that were
played, the Generals won 6-0, 6-0. Dors-

school record breaking 4x400 meter re-
lay with Stier and Fugate. The trio was
joined by sophomore Lauren Woodie.

Katterhagen took home gold in
the pole vault with a leap of 3.35 meters.

Junior Taylor Maxey also had a
record setting day. She broke the school
record in the hammer with a toss of
37.09 meters.

The season is over for most
of the members of both the men’s and
women’s teams. However, select mem-
bers of each team are still competing to
try and qualify for the national meet be-
ginning May 17th in Claremont, Ca.

target. That, combined with the superb
goalkeeping by Barenis, led the Gener-
als to victory. Barenis stopped a career
best 20 shots while playing the full 60
minutes in goal.

W&L will play top seeded Lynchburg
in the ﬁnals next Sunday, May 6. The
game begins at 1pm.

ey defeated senior Trudy Sizaba and
Buell defeated senior Shawnte Woodson.

With the ODAC crown, both the
men’s and women’s teams earned an
automatic bid to the NCAA Division III
tournament. It takes place May 11-13 in
Cary, N.C. v

 

 

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, APRIL 30,2012

sports

 

S in the numbers

i117

The total number of at—bats since Los Angeles Angel Albert
Pujols has hit a home run. He has not hit a home run in the

regular season since September 22 of last year.

15

The total number of season since the Florida Panthers have
won a playoff game before this season. They were just de-

feated by the New Jersey Devils in Game 7 of their series and

are out of the playoffs.

0

15

The total number of times that Rafael Nadal has one the Bar-
celona Open after his victory on Sunday. He became the ﬁrst

‘player to win two separate opens seven times.

19 

The total number ofwashington and Lee student-athletes
that boasted a 4.0 GPA for the winter term’. They are among

the 185 athletes that had a GPA greater than 3.5 for the term.

soapbox

“I was trying to forecast which teams would
be looking at quarterback and I didn’t see
the Redskins thinking along those lines, but
Coach Shanahan’s words to me were that

he couldn’t pass me up.”

-Klrkoouslns, draﬂnd bythewashlrunn Redsklnslnthe

fourth round ol'Saturdqy's NFL draft.

“Your mind has to be absolutely clear.

The fact that you have to cope with your
opponent, jet lag, different foods, sleeping
in hotels, and personal problems has to be
erased from consciousness— as if they don’t

exist. ”

-EdwInMoees.0lllmP|¢¢0|dmodalletIn1ho400melnr

hurdles In 1976 and 1984

CONGRATULATIONS TO THE
W&L MEN'S AND N0MEN’S
TENNIS TEAMS 0N WINNING

0DAcS

ondeck

 
 

Women’s Tennis

Monday Tuesday Wednesday

Riding takes home 2 of 3 awards '

Generals win rookie of the year and ‘scholar-athlete awards

By Leigh Dannhauser
SPORTS EDITOR

Earlier this month, the Washington and Lee
riding team placed ﬁfth at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Championships.

Leading the Generals was ﬁrst-year Char-
lotte Keesler and senior Tamara Morse, who
ﬁnished fourth and ninth, respectively.

Keesler ﬁnished the day with 80.5 points.
At the end of the day she was also awarded
with ODAC Rookie of the Year honors.

Morse ﬁnished ninth with 77 points. She

was named the ODAC/ Farm Bureau Insur-
ance Scholar-Athlete of the Year.

Rounding out the scoring for Washing-
ton and Lee was junior Molly Rountree who
ﬁnished 14th with 71 points and sophomore
Maia Robbins who ﬁnished 24th with 49.75
points.

As a team the Generals scored 9 points.
Sweet Briar took home the title with 16 points,
with Hollins ﬁnished in second close behind

them with 15 points. Randolph was third with
10 points. »

While the season is done for most of the
riders, Morse has qualiﬁed for Nationals.
She will be competing in the ﬁat competition
event at Nationals in Raleigh, N.C. starting
May 3rd.

From Olympics to Div.|ll

Gwen Alexander inspires athletes wit her passion

By Christina Benedetti
STA F F W R I TE R

“Five, four, three, two, one. . .STOP!” Pre-
season was hotter than usual and steam rose
from the newly laid ﬁeld hockey turfscorching
the girls’ feet as they played. It is always ten
degrees warmer than what the thermometer
reads when playing on the artiﬁcial turf. The
coach, looking at the girls who were sweating
and panting, asked, “How many goals did you
make?” The girls exchanged nervous glances
and admitted that they didn’t know that they
were supposed to count. The coach bellowed,
“Ten pushups, now! If you don’t count, how
are you supposed to know if you beat the other
group?” Even on day one of practice, a two
minute shooting drill was a competition.

Gwen Alexander joined Washington and
Lee University’s ﬁeld hockey program as a
voluntary coach in 2010. While she and her
husband, Chuck, moved to Lexington to care
for their sick aunt, both soon found coaching
opportunities in the area. Chuck found work
as a track coach for the Virginia Military In-
stitute, while Gwen set her sights on the W&L
team. Gwen asked W&L head coach Wendy
Orrison if she could join the team as a goalie
coach. Wendy welcomed her on board, but
was unable to place her on the payroll because
there was already a full time assistant coach.
Despite the lack of payment, Gwen was ec-
static to continue her involvement in the sport
that she loves.

Gwen contributed immediately by revamp-
ing the team’s defense. As the team adjusted
well to the new defensive strategy, the play-
ers and the coaches struggled to understand
her personality and competitive drive. In
women’s Division III athletics, an in-your-
face coaching style is uncommon. However,
Gwen embraces this style and is not afraid to
let the team or an individual know when they:
are not working at their highest rate. Gwen
will never allow the team to give up or settle
on play that is less than its potential. Almost
every player has at once heard, “Hey! You can
run faster than that!” directed at them. Anna
Katharine Barnes, a ﬁrst-year for the Gener-
als, reﬁects, “Once you get past Gwen’s in-
tensity as a coach, her competitive spirit is
extremely inspiring and motivating.”

“Thankful circle”. is a long upheld tradi-
tion that the ﬁeld hockey team proudly car-
ries out. Before each home game, the team
gathers in the locker-room for pregame ritu-
als. Each individual has the opportunity to
say something that she is thankful for. The
purpose of “thankful circle” is to remind the
players to keep things in perspective, that it
is just a game. ‘‘I’m thankful for my fam-
ily and the beautiful weather”, “l’m thank-
ful for my health”, and ‘‘I’m thankful for my

’ friends and the opportunity to play athletics

in college” are common responses from team-
mates. However, Gwen has never varied her
response: “I am thankful for the competition.”

Gwen Cheeseman was born on August 13,
l95l and grew up in rural Central Pennsylva-
nia. Growing up with ﬁve siblings, Gwen was
exposed to competition early on. Her father,
a stonemason, was a perfectionist, but knew
how to make hard work fun, while her mother
showed her love for competition in herjob as

Thursday

a schoolteacher. Gwen’s brothers and sisters
constantly played with one another and com-
peted in everything that they did, including
dinner. “Who’s going to get the last drum-
stick??”, she said. As Gwen thinks of her
childhood, the memories of winning a soft-
ball throw competition in elementary school
replay vividly in her mind. Even at an early
age, Gwen recognized that she felt satisfac-
tion from competing. To Gwen, “Winning is
tremendous”.

And she“thankful for the competition.”

Field hockey was introduced into Gw-
en’s life the summer before she entered high
school. The ﬁrst time she saw the game, she
instantly knew that she wanted to be a goalie.
While most teams resort to begging someone
to play the position, Gwen willingly placed
herself in the path of speeding, rock hard ﬁeld
hockey balls because she said “it looked fun”.
Just like anything else in Gwen’s life, she
devoted all of her time and effort to her ﬁeld
hockey skills. With three years head-to—head
experience on the varsity squad, Gwen was
recruited and played on West Chester Univer-
sity’s team. '

‘In 1980, Gwen’s life goals took a new di-
rection. For the ﬁrst time in Olympic history,
women’s ﬁeld hockey qualiﬁed asan Olym-
pic event. From that moment on, Gwen’s
new goal was to qualify for the national team.

Training over ﬁve hours per day, Gwen set her =
sights on an Olympic medal. Four years lat-

er, in Los Angeles, California, Gwen and her
teammates were presented with the opportu-
nity to take home the bronze medal.

In 1984, Olympic women’s ﬁeld hockey
played in a round robin format with head to
head competition. Goals for and goals against
would determine the fate of a tie. As Gwen
watched the Dutch play the Aussies, she cal-
culated that if the Dutch won exactly 2-0, the
bronze medal would be determined by penalty
strokes. In ﬁeld hockey, penalty strokes con-
sist of two sets of ﬁve strokes. The goalies on
opposing teams would switch on and off until
the score presented a winner. Looking at the
clock tick down under 1 minute, Gwen real-
ized the score was exactly 2-0. She hustled
down to the ﬁeld to practice strokes before
she would have to defend the penalty shots for
real. She was thankﬁil that she had awakened
at Sam that morning to practice strokes with
another anxious teammate who couldn’t sleep
either. With her family in the stands, Gwen
saved the ﬁrst three balls, and with goals of
her teammates, was able to clench the bronze
medal. Gwen said, “After twelve years of
training, winning the Bronze Medal was very
rewarding. It was like Disneyland!”

Goalies are at a clear disadvantage during
penalty strokes. Gwen recalls that people of-
ten expressed to her how hard it must be for a
goalie to defend them. Gwen would explain
that in fact, she loved defending strokes be-
cause she loved the challenge. She knew that
it usually took a mistake on the offensive side
for her to save the goal, but the challenge was
incredibly fun and rewarding for her when she
did. I guess that’s how you become an Olym-
pian. . .looking to challenges as something you

will enjoy because you have the opportunity
to overcome them.

“I am thankful for the competition.”

Having been a Division I and an Olympic
athlete, Division III ﬁeld hockey is a radical
change from the level of competition that
Gwen is used to. When asked about the dif-
ference, Gwen said, “The commitment was
more at Division I: more hours in the weight
room, more physical conditioning, and more
time playing on the ﬁeld.” Head ﬁeld hockey
coach Wendy Orrison commends Gwen for
adjusting to the Division III level and her role
as an assistant coach. Although the competi-
tion may be less, Gwen says, “It is rewarding
to coach both DI and DIII because it is helping
a group to achieve their goals and dreams”.

Gwen’s competitive attitude has helped
the team and many individuals push harder
than they ever would have thought possible.
Sophomore defender Victoria Van Natten says
that “Gwen helps me to be competitive with
myself, to push my teammates, and to try to
achieve my maximum potential.” Assistant
coach Jane Beall claims that Gwen’s inﬂu-
ence does not end on the ﬁeld. She thinks that
having someone who models a healthy com-
petitive attitude is beneﬁcial for the players to
witness a strong, driven woman who derives
satisfaction from earning a win. Jane says,
“It’s helpﬁil for them to implement that ﬁght-
ing spirit on the ﬁeld, and in life, when they
will have to advocate for themselves in the
real world that is far more competitive than
any hockey game.”

Although the level of play between Divi-
sion I and Division III may seem drastically
different, to Gwen, competition is competi-
tion. This past fall, Gwen’s husband suffered
from a heart attack and was hospitalized for
over a month. While Gwen was absent from
games and practices in order to tend‘ to her
husband Chuck, the lack of intensity and com-
petition was evident among the players and
the coaches. At Gwen’s ﬁrst game back, when
it came time for “thankful circle,” Gwen was
not thankﬁil for her husband or any of the doc-
tors working to nurse Chuck back to health,
but instead Gwen looked around the room and
said in a clear and steady voice, “I am thankﬁil
for the competition”.

Saturday

 

Men’s Lacrosse

at Lynchburg 1 pm

Riding

IHSA Nationals 8:30 am IHSA Nationals 8:30 am

Men’s Tennis

Track

Golf

Women’s Lacrosse

vs Guilford TBA

ODAC Tournament Finals TBA

 

