 

  Thoughts on pledgeship.  

OPINIONS / page 

Go back in time. 

Check out this Sports Illustrated story that
ran exactly half a century ago. Spoiler: it's

about our football team. I

SPORTS / page 8

' TH

 

WASHINGTON mi) LEE UNIVERSITY

RING -TUM PHI.

MONDAY,NOVEMBER7,2011lV ‘IHE SIIIDEHTS All! FOR THE SIUDEIIIS SIIIEE 1851

VOLUME CV, NUMBER 7

The battle begins:

Student organizations canvas, work the polls and prepare for debate

By Victoria Bell
STAFF WRITER

Aﬁer spending the past few weeks
reaching out to area voters, Washington
and Lee’s College Democrats and Col-
lege Republicans will spend Election Day
working the polls

end Tuesday. On Nov. 17 at 7 p.m. in Lee
Chapel, the College Republicans and Col-
lege Democrats will go head-to-head in a

political debate.

and continuing to
raise awareness.

On Nov. 17th at 7p.m. in

According to Lee Chapel, the College Robbie Day,
their Twitter page, R  n 0 Smith-Scho-
College Demo- epub lea S  C liege enwalder,
crats have had DQWZOCVGIS Wlll g0 h€Cld-l0- Zain Raza,
their “boots on the - - - and Leah ,
ground” for Senator  ‘.’Le.i’L’e_ Gose will
Creigh Deeds in his represent

re-election campaign in the local commu-
nity.

College Republicans, meanwhile, will
be volunteering at the polls on Election

Day for the local Reynolds for Sherriff

campaign.
The groups’ political activity doesn’t

Elephants ﬁghti

0'

the College Democrats. Ty— I

ler Grant, Matt Simpson, ’
Tim McAleenan, and Con-
nor Perkins will be the face of
College Republicans. Questions
will be drawn from the audience,
the moderators, and the opponent

Each group will
front four individu-
als as representatives.
Todd

teams.

can contact senior Robbie
Day or senior Tyler
Grant.

Students who would like to submit a
question for the debate or are looking for
ways to get involved in politics at W&L,_

Election Day

   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

ng over ica

Conference at VMI focuses on American and Chinese economic, political and ideological policies toward Africa

ByThomas Kent
STAFF WRITER

At a multiple panel conference held
last week in the Center for Leadership
and Ethics Building at VMI, ambassa-
dors, professors, high-ranking military
personnel and other leaders discussed
United States and China policy toward
Africa.

The conference,‘entitled “The Eagle
and the Dragon in Africa”, focused on
stability and economic development in
Sub-Saharan Africa.

Major General Donald Leins, a key-
note speaker at the conference, currently
serves in the ofﬁce of the Joint Chiefs
of "Staff and previously served as Dep-
uty Commander, Combined Joint Task
Force, Horn of Africa in Djibouti. He
addressed the issue with the question,
“Is China’s policy toward Africa altruis-
tic or neo-colonial?”

The answer to such a question was
debated and several times a reference
was made to the old East African prov-
erb: “When two elephants ﬁght, it is the
grass that suffers.” During the confer-
ence, the proverb was metaphorically
applied to China and the U.S. interaction
on African soil.

Leins discussed various possibili-

' ties for United States collaboration with

China in Africa, including multilateral
agreements, economic “hooks” and col-
laboration on transnational issues, such

ounting

New program allows students to prac ice interviews when

By Drew Carlos
STA F F w RIT E R

Washington and Lee’s Career Ser-
vices’ newest program allows students
to prepare for upcoming job interviews
in a new way.

The program——InterviewStream—
enables students to practice interview-
ing for a job in the ﬁeld of their choice,
answer thousands of questions and see
their interview replayed immediately on
the screen.

Students can ﬁnd Interviewstream
through a link on the Career Services
website. The next step is to create an
account and then take advantage of the
entire program. InterviewStream is free
for all W&L students.

InterviewStream is exactly like a
real interview. Students can choose the

as the proliferation of WMDs, natural
disasters, pandemics, and humanitarian
intervention. The “hooks” refer to situa-
tions with “mutually good outcomes” for
both parties that facilitate collaboration.

Ambassador Priscilla Clapp, a retired
minister-counselor in the U.S. Foreign
Service, brought a different perspective.
“We need to look at how China can al-
low Africa to proﬁt,” Clapp said.

She said China’s position is not
analogous to the Soviet Union’s position
in the Cold War, because China “recog-
nizes its dependence on the rest of the
world.” A

“China’s rise can help other coun-
tries,” Clapp said.

The fact that China and the U.S.
have diﬁiculties collaborating in Africa
was addressed. Charles Horner, a panel
chair and senior fellow at the Hudson In-
stitute, said that “almost all of the issues
have to do with differences in political
systems.”

Dr. Raymond Gilpin, a director at
the U.S. Institute of Peace, said the in-
teraction between the United States and
China should not be stated as the actual
struggle depicted between the two el-
ephants.

Referring to such a competition, Gil-
pin said, “We are not in a cold war envi-
ronment or a bipolar world. ‘The world

ﬁeld they are interested in pursuing in
the workforce, click on as many or as
few questions they would like to an-
swer, partake in an interview with a real,
but recorded, person, and review their
interview once it is over. Only the stu-
dents will see their interviews, or, if they
would like, can send them into a career
services advisor for critiques.

One of the unique features of the
program is the ability to count the num-
ber of times one uses “umm,” “like,” “I
mean,” and “you know.” While these
ﬁller words may not seem like a prob-
lem, they can cause an interviewer to
think one is unprepared or trying to
make something up, Martine said. This
tool not only gives students the ability

is more globally integrated. For both
China and the US, Africa is not a strate-
gic property. Adversarial competition is
not inevitable.”

Gilpin said, “Would you become ad-
versarial over 5 percent GDP of trade.”
According to the African Development
Bank Group website, “China-Africa
trade comprises only 4 percent of the to-
tal Chinese imports and exports,” but is
likely to continue to grow.

In terms of trade, Gilpin said, “China
and the US need to come to grasps with
market access. Africa does not and will
not account for 25 percent of U.S. oil.
For China, Africa is more ofa long-terrn
strategic engagement issue.”

Gilpin suggested that one of the el-
ephants might have an intrinsic advan-
tage. Referring to the Chinese company
bids taking place in Africa, Gilpin said,
“Competition is good. It would good for
China, the U.S., and Africa if everyone
played by the same rules. We need each
bidder to be on the same playing ﬁeld.
We need to disentangle the package that
gives Chinese companies an advantage.”

Gilpin said we need to ﬁnd ways to
“ensure that what is expended on the
Chinese and United States side is not
just complimentary but also shares the
same goal of prosperity in Africa. Chi-
nese and U.S. relations are important,

to check themselves, it also can lead to
students who use ﬁller words in excess
to eliminate them all together.
‘Christian Martine, a student intern
at Career Services, said the goal of In-
terviewStream is to practice. There are
thousands of interview questions at the
ﬁngertips of W&L students, and they
are not only helpful but accessible too.
Martine also noted that a student can
customize their interview, picking the
speciﬁc questions they want to answer.
Along with this, Martine pointed out
a feature of the program, Expert Tips,
that will give students hints on how to
answer those generic questions, such as,
“Why should I hire you?”
Martine said he wanted students to

yet they are clouded by misunderstand-
ing and suspicion."

Yun Sun, a visiting fellow from the
Brookings Institute, offered 21 Chinese
perspective. She said China has eco-
nomic, political, security. and ideologi-
cal interests in Africa.

She said China’s desire for raw mate-
rials, for African support in multination-
al forums, speciﬁcally for its one-child
policy, for the safety ofChinese compa-
nies and citizens in Africa, and for the
prosperity of non-Democratic systems
in Africa, establish these respective in-
terests. She said that non-democratic
systems in /\frica would be “an external
support for communism.”

“The United States has more security
interests in Africa than China does,” Sun
said. She mentioned cases of extremism,
terrorism, and piracy, and the United
States’ desire to see “strengthening of
democracy, human rights, and good gov-
emance.”

The question of whether or not the
two elephants can work together was
also addressed. In terms of possible
collaboration between the United States
and China over development projects
in Africa, Yun said the Chinese view
is, “We have the cash and we can do it
alone. Why bother collaborating with
the US?” She said that China follows

know that the program is not only a pow-
erful feature, but one that works with a
college student’s schedule as well. Pre-
viously, a student would have to set Lip
an interview, come into Career Services,
and practice with an actual person. Now,
students can practice when and where
they want, and they will have access to
their old interviews. Having access to
these pre-recorded interviews permits
students to see the progress they have
made as the year goes on.

The ability to see their recorded in-
terview lets students focus on things
other than purely answers: eye contact,
posture, etc. Students may be told they
divert their eyes after every answer, but
it is easier to believe once it is actually

a non-interference policy toward Africa
and said that Africa is not a “policy pri-
ority for China at all.”

When giving his keynote speech,
Leins said he was “struck by the contra-
diction of China’s policy of non-inter-
ference contrasted with the undercutting
of the local workforce by selling its own
commodities.”

The theme of collaboration was pres-
ent throughout the conference. A point
was made that distinction between co-
operation and collaboration, cooperation
between China and the U.S. in regard to
Africa described as being less likely.

Leins said the old proverb of the two
elephants ﬁghting is inappropriate to de-
scribe China and U.S. interaction. Dur-
ing the questioning period afterwards,
Leins said, “We are just grazing on the
same grassland.”

Dr. Gilpin responded to this state-
ment by saying, “But what does that say
about the grass?”

Previously during the conference
Leins had said, “We cannot look through
[China’s] actions or intentions with our
own binoculars. Partnership is impor-
tant so we can all share the same grass-
land together.”

your “urns” online

convenient and record them for later review

observed by the students themselves.
Martine said its “easy to perceive your-
self doing one thing and then actually
seeing it, and its completely different.”

Martine said so far, InterviewStream
has received an extremely positive reac-
tion from students.

Josh Posner, a W&L senior, recently
tried the program and his response was
that it had “great user-interface.” He also
said “because you can use it anywhere,
you can practice over-and—over again,
and get comfortable and familiar with
the questions, the timing, and your way
ofresponding.”

 

 

 

   

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011

 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE uuxvensrrv
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

NEWS

NOV 0 8 2011

 

 

Run like 21 °

Track team sponsors clinic for local girls

By Leigh Dannhauser
5 TA F F w R I T E R

Nearly 60 young girls showed up
at Wilson Field at 9 Saturday morning
ready to run.

They were there to participate in
the Run Like a Girl clinic presented by
Washington and Lee’s women’s track
team.

Girls as young as 3 and as old as 14
ran, hurdled, and long jumped over the
course of the ninety-minute clinic.

The ﬁrst hour was dedicated to four
different stations. These stations were
nutrition, hurdles, motivation, and long
jump. The girls remained at each one for
about ﬁfteen minutes.

“It was deﬁnitely a little hectic mov-
ing the groups so quickly, but the all of
the girls caught on really fast and had a
blast,” said ﬁrst-year Jillian Katterhagen.
Katterhagen helped run the hurdle sta-
tion.

When the music started to play, the
girls moved on to thenext station.

After the hour was up, the girls all
grouped together for some stretching and
then divided back into their age groups

for some running around on the track and
turf.
Overall, the members of the track

team who ran the clinic said the event . ' ' V-

was a success.

“It was a great opportunity to in-
troduce younger girls to running and
healthy lifestyles,” said sophomore Julia
Murray.

“It was great seeing the energy of the
young girls,” added ﬁrst-year Jennifer
Friberg. “They all said they liked to run
because it was fun and you don’t hear
that from a lot of teens or adults.”

Murray and Friberg were age group
counselors. Those working the stations
agreed.

“The clinic was awesome as a whole,
it was fast—paced and fun, and everyone

there was super enthusiastic,” Katterha— 
gen said. “Besides the cold weather, it

was a great morning.”

Nearly 60 young women turned out for a morning of running,jumping and learning about ﬁtness.

Brieﬂy: Operation Christmas Child

Alpha Theta Omega and Quest Scholars to sponsor “packing party ”for organization that helps children

By Victoria Bell
STAF F WR ITER

If you’ve never heard of Operation

Christmas Child...get excited. Operation
Christmas Child is an organization that
is part of the Samaritan’s Purse interna-
tional relief efforts. lndividuals pack shoe
boxes full of personal essentials and fun
stuff for children in foreign countries that
go without things they need on a daily
basis. Without the efforts of Samaritan’s
Purse, these" children would not have the
opportunity to celebrate Christmas.

On Friday, Nov. ll from 7 p.m. to
midnight, Alpha Theta Omega and Quest
Scholars are sponsoring a “packing par-
ty” for Operation Christmas Child in the
Commons Living Room. Tables will be
set up in commons this week with vol-
unteer sign-ups, donations, and supply
drop-offs. Those that plan to participate
in the event are asked to bring supplies
(see suggested list of gifts) and an extra
shoe box. Be sure to drop by the Com-
mons Living Room between 7 p.m. and
midnight on Friday (attendees are free to
come and go as they please), grab some
pizza and cider, listen to Christmas mu-
sic, and join in on the holiday spirit of
giving!

K/Oz;/"5 tfale/ar/.9

Toys
.1/i//1///(‘(1/av. an//3’, (/0//3', oi‘/(It!//("I/(I/II‘/III!/S’, -.’(1:'oo.s',
at//‘//m///('(/.53‘ yr)‘-yr)», /'/////J /*o.)(¢s', .s'//m// ('3/c/1. 
» /Z'('/('/I/¢. /(()y.s' //I(//  1/.) 0/‘ /)l(I/.’(’ /10/.'s'(* ﬂ0////
1'. 1 '//‘(I 6(///(*/'/my

School Supplies
1 Ii‘/1.5’, /Jam’//5' 1///(/.s‘//(1//2c/ze/2 cm‘/yo//.s*, /1/(//' -.'('/55',
.5‘/(////M’ (///1//'/1/.'/)(/1/M’/.5’, //1/*/7/2‘/g /mt/s', /10 26/‘,
.5-o/a/' (7//c///1//o/‘.3’, ('o/o/v}(/(/ A004;-, /2/c/1//to 600%»-

Hygiene Items
.*/7/)///5/t//.s' ms-, /oo//y)(r.s'/(I, //1/W/an/' .w)(I.) /}'/1 (I

[)/(/A'//.(' A((((/}, (7)/ll&rS', (l)(IeS’/l('/(}//M’

Other
.(/{rl//*(/('1///1///, /o/I///)r)/2.://2/¢'(1.s'e 1/0//5/c-a(I( (r//
(71//1/y/. ///////.s’.( (////1/, .“/-.5’/1//*/.3’, .s*o('é.s'. an /{'((.)»s*,
J‘!//(I(//((»$'-$’('.s', //(//'/< c/ym-, /((1//(/ezoe/{'y, m(n‘¢'/1('.s',

//(/.s'////////.s' /(o/M (’.l'//‘(I 51///e/v'e.sj
( (

A Personal Note
.(/1l (1 .s'(/)0/'1//e e/we 726,‘ //on may (’/l('/(I-9’(’ (I /mfe
/0 Me ca/717/(1/It/U I0/0 ((/(’}/(//I/ss'§*/ "01; I 011/‘
( /1}//1//y. .((//'/rm //1('/m/e( yo///‘ //(1/11¢’ (1/zcﬂrt/1//‘em’ ///e
(%/%////((/y (I)/‘I./(’ aacé

Do Not Include:

‘/Ks-er/or z/(1/1/1‘/ya//'/e//1.s*, m(I/*—/‘('41/er//Ye/11.5’ .91/rﬁ
my /ray‘ (////1.9, /.*///‘mas’, o/< /11/7//(I{*q/(/(/I//'e.s', cﬂoco/(1/c
of/oor/, ()1!/((/"I/(I/(3 ca//((14/, //(/(//'(/s' 0/‘ /o//'0/1.9,
///er//ca//'0/z.s' 0/‘ 0//(1//11'/1.5‘, 5/'e((é(IJ/e //c/11.9 .9/(ca

rm’ .s‘/mzot//oam 0/; (//(law co/1/'(1()1e/$3’, (1e/'o.s'o/ ca/1.9

   
   
 

1012, Ca.A*~a.po.rSn Slogan.“ brmnstorrmw/Q]

5:, «TIM ‘re as’: we we hit I

C-:=<~esc_.¢” lyliw kiwi:/xj
t,,..,r¢"».r¢: goiili ___.

/"'
_x'“77

Peace Corps
on campus

Thejob market is global.
You should be too.

 

Find out how you can gain
personal and professional

Life is Callln9- experience as a
Peace Corps Volunteer.
How far will
W90? Wed nesda Nov. 9
Information Session
80o_424_8580 Career Services Center

Huntley Hall 323
5:00 p.m. — 6:00 p.m.

peacecorps.gov
Contact Ben Burnes at
202.692.1051 or
bburnes@peacecorps.gov.

 g -   '
5;’/i*“?l‘”:;v
t y.

I
eéifc USSERY / staff caﬁpfiist

 

  

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

opinions

In defense of pledgeship...

Do boys beneﬁt from living in misery for8 weeks of freshman year? Columnist Stockton Bullitt thinks so.

I probably
should’ve saved
this article until
January or Feb-

ruary, but my
other ideas this
week weren’t

quality choice.
See, I wanted
‘ to write about
good new tele-
vision shows,
but since I ap-
parently don’t
have enough au-
thority to send
a reply all email to the “Pink to Drink”
email chain, I don’t think I have enough
authority to convince you that “Dan
Lebatard is Highly Questionable” is a
good show (even though it’s better than
any other non-PTI afternoon show on
the ESPN networks). Therefore, I think
I’ll talk about pledgeship and hope that
freshmen don’t read the Phi.

I’ve always had a problem with how
the school characterizes pledgeship at
W&L. I never could understand why,
but despite being a dirty, stinking liberal,
I always seem to ﬁnd myself defending
fratemities on this campus. The problem
is, when you are arguing against profes-
sors and administrators, it’s often hard to
develop a solid counter-argument to the
whole “How is putting freshmen (sorry,
ﬁrst years) through pain and hardship a
good thing? How is that helping them?”

Honestly, when you phrase it like
that, there really isn’t much justiﬁcation
for the process as a whole. So, despite
having this general discussion many
times over the course of four years, it
wasn’t until I had a Mountain Dew Amp
(by the way, Mountain Dew is a much
better energy drink than Monster, Full
Throttle, and maybe even Red Bull;
Mountain Dew knows how to make
drinks that hype you up and add no ad-
ditional value) on the way back from
Richmond, that I developed some sem-
blance of a defense. Yeah, I’m an apolo-
gist, but I think that this can be at least
relatively useful when justifying to your
parents why you need to bring your car
to school and borrow $5,000+ to join a
club that adds no signiﬁcant value to the
rest of society. Just to be clear, I am not
speaking in defense of pledgeship at oth-
er schools,_nor am I speaking in defense
of pledgeship ten years ago. Let’s face
it, pledgeship nowadays is more watered
down than my parents’ vodka when I
was in high school. I don’t want to ar-
gue whether or not this is a good thing

   

Bystnclttonﬂrullitt
cmumusr

(again, since I am a dirty, stinking lib-
eral, I tend to think progress is good, but
that’s my bias), mostly because I don’t_
ﬁnd it that relevant to this argument. I
am only arguing about how the current
W&L system functions, and after seeing
the successes and failures of pledgeship
for three years now, I think I have a rea-
sonable idea of what pledgeship really is
and why it functions the way it does.
When debating over the merits of
pledgship, the two opposing forces tend
to be adults and college boys. Most
adults tend to argue that pledgeship, at
least how it’s practiced at W&L today,
is a bad thing that taints (haha taint) the
innocent souls of pure, developing boys.

I themselves.

consistently, and that is why they come
down the hardest on fraternities who get
caught for hazing. Nationals are truly
deplorable organizations who use the
argument of adulthood development to
milk money from chapters and fundraise
money that really should be going to
educational or charitable organizations.
Their only real value added is serving
as a risk management institution, which
schools are already better at handling
If Nationals were to be
wiped off the face of the Earth, the only
negative result would be the loss of some
erroneous jobs. So, why do they stay in
power? Because they argue that they are
the ones dictating the correct policies for

Since guys can only handle one task at a time, they

save rush for the fun part of being a bro and reserve

pledgeship for the hard part of being a bro.

Michael Kimmel’s book Guyland is the
essential sociological study of males in
between I6 and 26. Kimmel interviewed
hundreds of college students, and devel-
oped his own theory of pledgeship and
why it’s perverse. Luckily, he shares the
same view that most adults do, and that
is why his book is one of the most ac-
curate and detailed pieces of shit I have
ever read. This is because despite pin-
ning down the adolescent male’s life
experience down to the last detail, he
fails to understand what the male is re-
ally about. His description of guys is like
someone who tells you that “Inception”
is a movie about dreams. He’s just miss-
ing the point.

And so, what is so wrong with his ‘de-
scription of pledgeship? Essentially, his
and every other argument posed by most
adults is that pledgeship is a college
male’s way of making boys into men.
The reason pledgeship is so perverse is
that the frat stars aren’t men yet them-
selves, so their test of manhood has no
basis in reality, and therefore, no merits.
When it comes down to it, most adults
use this form of reasoning. They tell
freshmen that the older frat stars telling
them what to do don’t really have the au-
thority to boss them around because they
aren’t all that old themselves.

It doesn’t help that other adults at-
test to the idea that pledgeship is about
turning boys into men. National frater-
nity organizations use this argument

turning boys into men, thereby legiti-
mizing their version of pledgeship and
making it easy to kick off chapters who
don’t follow their policies. However, if
you look at their policies and outlook on
life, they are basically Mormons, which
is why SVU doesn’t need fraternities.
But I still haven’t gotten to what is
wrong with Kimmel’s argument. It’s an
incorrect deﬁnition. Pledgeship, at least
how it’s practiced at W&L now, isn’t
about turning boys into men. We aren’t
bringing freshmen to Brooks Brothers
and making them purchase “How to be
a Gentleman” because we are not inter-
ested in that aspect of the society. Our
idea of being a man is taking a shot
without a chaser and jumping into the
Maury in January, so it’s not like we
actually think that contributes anything
to real manhood. Furthermore, fratemi-
ties aren’t adult producing institutions.
That isn’t their purpose, no matter how
many pledge manuals you read. There
is no emphasis on adulthood in most
fraternities at W&L, so how is the goal
of pledgeship to make boys into adults?
And if the adults think I just proved their
point, what frat stars are claiming that
fraternities are bastions of adulthood?
Fraternities are just organized bro cir-
cles. I would use friendship circles but‘
that sounds way too effeminate and is
therefore designated for sororities, which
I will get to later. The point of pledge-
ship is to prove that your newfound bros

will stick with you through thick and
thin. Simply put, it’s an organized way
of guys collectively asking select fresh-
men 50 Cent’s “2l Questions.”

College boys are simple folk. They
just want to ﬁnd bros and hang out with
them. Until the Investment Bank Phase
(yeah, I’m referencing my own article),
guys don’t care too much about aca-
demics, and they don’t particularly like
showing their outward affection for
women in public, even though they ob-
viously enjoy their company. Fratemi-
ties are guys’ way of hanging out with
each other at W&L. Princeton has eating
clubs. Yale has colleges. Harvard is evil.
And W&L has fraternities.

So where do freshmen come in? Well,
W&L guys for the most part believe
that most of their fraternity brothers are
their bros. Obviously, there is some in-
ner fraternity dissention, but the reason
fraternities still have merit here is that
W&L guys believe that their fraternity
members are their bros. When they get to
campus, freshmen are not yet anyone’s
bros because frat stars and freshmen
have yet to kick it together. So, because
guys are stupid, they spend an entire year
going through the mating ritual of test-
ing whether or not select freshmen are
their bros. Rush is the glorious process
of frat stars collectively saying, “Look
how awesome it is being my bro.” It’s
a fun time for everyone because being
bros is a fun experience. That’s why dur-
ing late nights at every rush date, there
is a frat star going up to some freshman
and saying something that sounds like,
“I love you, Bro Montana.”

But then, why is there a need for
pledgeship? Can’t we just do it like the
girls do? No, because (breaking news)
girls are different. For girls, the discov-
ery of friendship is always a two-sided
coin. Girls don’t separate the simultane-
ous enjoyment and difﬁculty of being
someone’s friend. They don’t need a
pledgeship to test their future friends be-
cause girls are smart enough to both sell
girls on themselves and decidediwhether
or not they should buy the freshman’s
proposed friendship. This is why the
level of mental commotion that goes on
during girl rush dates is always too much
for guys to handle.

Guys, on the other hand, heed pledge-
ship because they need to show the
freshmen, their future bros, that being
someone’s friend is not only fun, but it is
also very hard. Since guys can only han-
dle one task at a time, they save rush for
the fun part of being a bro and reserve
pledgeship for the hard part of being a

bro. All pledgeship is currently at W&L
is a bunch of frat stars collectively asking
select future bros, “If I was stuck out at
Pink Palace, would you take the time to
sober drive me back home?” It’s done in
an organized fashion, but that’s basically
the gist of it. Depending on the fratemi-
ty, the demands for what constitutes how
far a bro will go to be your bro varies,
but that’s how differing friendships work
in the ﬁrst place. Some guys will literally
get your back in all circumstances, and
others will only get your back only when
the times are good. Pledgeship deciphers
which bro ﬁt into which category under
the assumption that life is always better
and manageable when you know who
you are dealing with.

The problem with this whole process
is when the bromance becomes negative.
Frat stars don’t like ﬁnding out that their
newfound bros only liked them for the
free beer. Frat stars are sensitive beings,
and they don’t like feeling used. Like-
wise, freshmen don’t like being taken
advantage of (use whatever deﬁnition
you want for “take advantage of”) as
fellow bros. Think about it, how many
times have you stopped being friends
with someone because ultimately, the
times you spend having to serve their
needs instead of yours gets to be a little
too much. When freshmen decide that
the frat stars weren’t really their bros to
begin with, that’s when parents start ﬁnd-
ing out and sending letters to deans. And
ultimately, that’s the frat star’s problem,
not the freshmen’s because you can’t be
someone’s bro if you’re always being a
f***ing dick to them all the time.

However, this does not mean pledge-
ship is not necessary. Every guy needs
bros who will help him when he needs
help. Pledgeship is the process of ﬁnd-
ing those bros. People in general put
their friends through different forms of
W&L’s pledgeship all the time. As long
as frat stars and freshmen are willing to
put in some effort in order to develop
the bromance and that system is not hor-
riﬁcally abused, then W&L’s pledgeship
should continue unabated but monitored,
like it currently is. If you don’t want the
structured process of ﬁnding a bro, then
go to a NESCAC school where fresh-_
men aren’t respected and bromances are
harder to come by. I like it this way, and
that’s why I came to this school, even
though I haven’t been able to say why
until now.

Reflections of the Real Madrid: ;Vamos a Tapearl

Want to lose ﬁve pounds? Francesca Wilson describes what living in Spain has taught her about portion control

The easi-
est ﬁve pounds
you’ll ever lose
is ,when you
move to a ma-
jor European
city. Trust me,
I despise for-
eign chitchat
about the ever-
sensitive top-
ics of America
and obesity as
the much as the
next patriot but
the Spanish,
they really might have a point.

As every American college student
knows it’s almost impossible to not to
gain ﬁve, ten or, heaven forbid, the fresh-
man ﬁfteen when you arrive at universi-
ty. Campus culture is conducive to rapid
weight gain. For the ﬁrst time in many
students’ lives they have easy access to
copious amounts of alcohol at least three

    

By Francesca Wi son
co LU M N In

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    

  

.  .» Andrea stso

iv‘ ‘Halli?
CDILUHNIST

I learned to dance in the in-
formal dining room of Quinta
Clovis, my grandmother’s house
in Caracas. An outdated cobalt- .
grey boombox would belt out
the rhythms of salsa and meren-
gue, thumping them through the
white marble ﬂoor and diffusing
them into my feet. Mamama, my
grandmother, would guide my
steps—uno, dos, uno, dos; ca-
dera cadera cadera!,—-punctuat-
ing the ﬂuid motion of moving

nights a week, not to mention unrestrict-
ed dining possibilities in the dining hall
or their respective fraternity or sorority
house.

Let’s be serious, it’s easy to reach
for the ﬁrst peanut butter/chocolate Rice
Krispie Treat and it’s even easier to reach
for the second. would know, I’ve done
the legwork. At Washington and Lee, all
food is presented in buffet style, mak-
ing the concept of portion control futile.
Therefore, it is very easy for students to
subconsciously overeat.

In contrast, Spanish eating culture-

is rarely excessive. Here, you’ll sel-
dom ﬁnd a Madrilenos fridge stocked
with diet sodas and low calorie snacks.
I don’t think Sprite Zero even exists in
this country. Instead, the Spanish drink
whole milk, desert is a must and no one
raises an eyebrow at cooking with oil.
While paella is certainly rich and jamon
is salty, you’ll be hard pressed to come
across a Spaniard eating super-sized por-
tions of their country’s scrumptious cui-

the thirst.

lull?”  " 

‘night, together, driven by the
same melody and lyrics: Agiiita
de coco, lo tienes que beber.
Agiiita de coco para matar Ia
sed... Coconut water, you must"
imbibe. Coconut water, to slake

I would ﬁnish each repeti-
tion of the song with the ques-
tion “Esta bien?” Is it okay? But
she would only reply with “Casi,
casil” Almost there!

The golden lights cast the

sine. Walk into any casual bar and you’ll
ﬁnd a list or menu “raciones” which
directly translates into “ration” or “por-
tion” in English. A “racio'n” of paella
will provide you with just enough food
so that you‘ are comfortably full but not

“racion” of meat and vegetables around
2 pm. And, by your typical 6 pm chow
down you’ll ﬁnd that you’re not hungry,
and, instead by 9-ish you’ll be craving
some tapas con amigos.

To tapa or “a tapear” is probably my

A “racion ” of paella will provide you with just
enough food so that you are comfortably full but not
stealthily sliding your hand to the top button of your

jeans...

stealthily sliding your hand to the top

- button of your jean.

Not only are portions smaller in Spain
but also the Spanish eating schedule cer-
tainly contributes to a slender populace.
For breakfast swap wafﬁes and syrup for
a “tostada con marmelada”. At lunch-
time, forget the noon co-op sandwich
to go, sit down and enjoy a healthy

 

» of Mamama on the walls.) The
a smell of the night we were fall-
ing into pervaded, as the door
to the terraza was left open to
the tropical air. The mirror fac-
ing us, and topping the chest of
drawers holding the‘ resting sil-
verware, reﬂected our spins and
steps. Mamama wove her café
con leche ﬁngers with mine, lay-
ing her long red nails on‘the backs
of my hands. She would lead me
across the ruddy road of salsa, un-

favorite verb in the Spanish language.
Not only is going out to eat tapas a fun,
social way to accustom oneself to Span-
ish culture, but it is also the perfect way
to eat a light and delicious dinner. The
best part about eating tapas is that you
get to try multiple dishes.

At non-family style restaurants, I
am the quintessential moocher. I usu-

my spirit.

But, truly, my goal was not to
succeed in doing the steps cor-
rectly. » .

I relinquished this purpose in
favor of relishing the feeling of
being given another part of Ma-
mama; a new addition to my self,
my essence.

And so, though my feet were
aching with my exertions, I con-
tinued to dance throughout the
night. Mamama and I held onto

ally spend more time eating off of my
friend’s plates than my own, inspiring
one or two irritated looks or comments.
I always want a little bite of something
salty, something meaty, and something
sweet. When I’m “tapeando,” I get to try
everything and I always leave satisﬁed.

Europeans, especially the Spanish,
get the reputation for being downright
attractive because, let’s face it, they re-
ally know how to take care of their bod-
ies. Not only does everyone walk ev-
erywhere in Madrid but delicious, and
not always heart-healthy food is a non-
negotiable part of their lifestyle. Spain
is practically free of the ever-pervasive
national preoccupation with weight that
stresses almost every American I know.
Here, people eat exactly what they want
in normal, not verging on binge-sized
portions. America could certainly do
with a little more Iberian inﬂuence.

 

- each other until we forgot that we

would be separated again, soon.

“Dancing is the language of
our hearts; music is the language
of our souls,” she said.

 
 

 

 

 

  

4 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011

opinions

 

 

Reasons to spend Spring Term in Lex

Do ou like tubing? Beer? Free food? If so, Columnist Sally Platt suggests staying on campus for Spring Term

Should

you. . ..study
cooking in
Italy? Cul-
ture in Spain?
Coral reefs in
South America?
, Spring Term can
 really take you
anywhere. Ap-
~ plications are in,
and soon there
will be screams
of joy or frowns
of disappoint-
ment as people
discover whether they got into the vaca-
tion (oops, “class”) oftheir choice. (And
let’s be honest, these are really 4-week
holidays, with a bit of reading thrown in
here and there. But hey, who says sam-
pling German _pilsner isn’t a valuable

cultural leamingexperience, right?)
Yet despite all the allure, there are
some serious reasons for staying on cam-

    

By5a|IyPltt
cotumiisr

pus, especially if you’re a freshman. So
before you commit to that far-ﬂung es-
capade that could (potentially) have you
eating dog or something equally nasty
for four weeks, check out these ten tips
for navigating a successful Spring Term.
It may be your best month ofthe year.

1. The class you pick. This is abso-
lutely crucial. Some classes are very
very hard, and some are very easy. It
is hard to tell from the syllabus. Guess
carefully. I took an English course, got
an A, and never had to read a book. It all
depends...

2. On that note, do not take a lab. I
have not personally experienced it, but
I hear it is absolutely killer. Imagine
spending ten extra hours a week dissect-
ing a sheep’s brain when you could be
having fun with everyone else. A

3. Class can be a real blast. Focusing
on one subject is novel. As sophomore
Jeromey Mann puts it, one class “makes
you focus and gives you more freedom
to choose how to spend your time.”

4. The weather. It is so beautiful here
during the spring. There’s sunshine ev-
erywhere. I highly suggest tanning on
the Colonnade. (Fun, but a little awk-
ward when your profs walk by).

jack a car, and spend the morning ﬂoat-
ing, tanning, and gossiping, while you
slowwwwly make your way down to the
Poles. (Allow at least three hours. The
river is rather slow, like your hung-over

So before you commit to that far—ﬂung escapade that

could (potentially) have you eating dog or something

equally nasty for four weeks, check out these ten tips for

navigating a successful Spring Term

5. Parties! Duh. They are very nice.
Start early. Sometimes go all day. Lots
of sunshine and beer.

6. Partying in the daylight. This de-
serves its own category. No more dark
basements ﬁlled with masses ofgrinding
bodies. Now it’s all in the sunshine - the
good, the bad and the ugly.

7. Floating down the river. The Mau-
ry is wonderful. Grab a few friends, hi-

True Life:I go to Dubyunhell

Student Found Living in the Library

Senior
John Schwartz
emerged from
Leybum Li-
brary on Oct.
16, for the ﬁrst
time since 2008,
after spending
the last three
years living on
the fourth ﬂoor.

First-year
Sophie Game-
Va, a work study
student, found
Schwartz cook-
ing a cup of instant noodles in a comer
study room, which he had converted into
a fully functional living space - complete
with an air mattress, Xbox game system,
mini refrigerator, stereo set, and EZvboy
recliner - just over the course of the past
few years.

“I was in middle of shelving books
for the 900 section when I suddenly
heard Wiz Khalifa coming from a
study ofﬁce,” said Gameva. “At ﬁrst, I
thought I was going insane, but then I
smelled the ramen. That’s when I knew

 

By Cynthia Lam I
COLUMNIST ’

something was up.”

By using her nose to detect the source
of the smell, Gameva was able to de-
termine the exact location of the room.
She knocked on the door, and after three
minutes of no-response, kicked it down.
The sight was astonishing.

“I could not believe my eyes. There
was this guy walking around in his box-
ers and blasting ‘Black and Yellow,’ like

4 he was at home or something. He had

run, and I’m happy with it. Can’t say I
have any regrets.” ‘

According to Schwartz, he moved
into the library exactly three years ago,
while studying for midterms during
Reading Days of his freshman year.

“It had been kind of a gradual thing,”
he said. “I had been doing work in the
library before that, but then exams hit,
and I basically started living there.”

“When John left to study for econ that

According to Schwartz, he moved into the library

exactly three years ago,’ while studying for midterms

during reading days of his freshman year

a bed and everything too. He was just,
like, living there,” said Garneva. She
immediately reported it to authorities,
who ordered an immediate evacuation
of the room.

“I knew the gig was up when that .

chick came in... her nose was twitch-
ing like crazy,” said Gameva. “Allin all
though, it’s been a good time. I had my

I

‘fI'i.'£':i.’{.'\‘CJ. '{.'.‘.-. ,!i.\Jf;i Iii l.31".?3.‘=s"I'i'

THE RING-TUM PHI.

DIANDRASPICAK

MANAGING EDITOR

day, he said, ‘I’ll see you in a few years.’
I thought he was joking. Apparently
not,” said senior Jackson Stark, who was
Schwartz’s freshman year roommate.
Schwartz ' started out sleeping in
his carrel and camping out on sofas at
night. As he began to spend increasing
amounts of time at the library, he decid-
ed to relocate to one of the study rooms,

brain).

8. Free food everywhere. I don’t
know why, but something about Spring
Term makes the school think we need
to be fattened up. Look out for Sweet
Treats ice cream in the quad every few
days.

9. Derby Days. Whether you are too
old to compete and simply an observer,
or in the middle ofpowder puff duking it

   
   

which he gradually ﬁlled with several
pieces of furniture and various stashes of
food. Once that happened, the transition
was complete.

“I had everything I needed: my books,
a bed, Call of Duty, snacks, music, a
laptop, clothes, you name it. What else
could I possibly want?” said Schwartz,
who has managed to maintain a vibrant
academic and social life throughout the
past three years.

According to economics professor,
Paul Soley, Schwartz was a model stu-
dent in his 300—level course.

“John was a stellar scholar in every
sense of the word,” said Soley. “He
always emailed me his assignments on
time and consistently went above and
beyond the requirements. His work was
so outstanding that I could overlook the
fact the he never showed up to my class.”

Outside of class, Schwartz continued
to maintain strong relationships with his
peers.

“John is one of the friendliest guys
I know. He waves to me every time I
see him at the library, which, now that I
think about it, is every single time I go
there,” said Junior Sarah Martinson. “He

. just

out—this is a fun event.

10. The crazyness. People tend to go
a little cray cray. First-years realize it is
their last few weeks to be freshmen. In a
few months, they have to be grown-up
upperclassmen! Better get all those little
indiscretions out of the way now. Se-
niors, on the other hand, have nothing to
lose. That’s where the fun really starts. . ..

11. Oh yes, did I mention the 5th
week of Spring Term? If at all possible,
stay through the week for graduation.
Your internship can wait. You have no
cares in the world, only sunshine and se-
nior-fueled parties to attend. Fun times.

Have I sold it? I certainly hope so. So
even if you didn’t get into that Brazil-
ecology-beach program, even if you
won’t be promoting international peace
or saving the world, you can still have a
great Spring Term— right here in Lex.
And, I would argue, the best Spring
Term. So here’s to ﬂoating down the
river, Derby Days, and partying in the
sunshine. See you there.

happens »
to always be there!
What a coincidence, huh?”
Schwartz also managed to have a
steady, long-distance relationship with
senior Helen Sweeney, his girlfriend of
two years, whom he met while checking
out a DVD at the library one aftemoon.
“I tell people we’re in a long-distance
relationship, but we’re technically only
300 feet away from each other,” said
Sweeney. “We mostly Skype and text,
but whenever we do meet up, it’s always
in the library. I think it’s so romantic,
because that is where we ﬁrst met.”
After a. series of interrogations and
counseling sessions, Schwartz moved
into a Woods Creek apartment last
Thursday. ‘
“It was great seeing the sun again,
but I’ve had so many great memories in
the library and I’m really going to miss
it. I feel like I’ve spent half my life liv-
ing in there,” he said.

  efending gay marriage

NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS&L|FE EDITOR

SPORTS EDITOR

COPY EDITORS

STAFF WRITERS

DESIGN EDITOR

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
STAFF CARTOONIST
BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

ELEANOR KENNEDY
CAMPBELL BURR
PAIGE GANCE
JAYNA JOHNS
ERIN SCHWARTZ

ALI GREENBERG
CYNTHIA LAM
SALLY PLATT
STOCKTON BULLITT
THOMAS KENT
VICTORIA BELL

’DREW CARLOS

FRANCESCA WILSON
ANDREA SISO
ALEXANDER MARAGOS
STEPHEN PECK

RYAN JOHNSON
COLLEEN MOORE

JULIANNA SATTERLY

COY FERRELL

GREG USSERY

MATT GOSSETT

DAVID WILSON

KANE THOMAS

DILLON MYERS
AN,S|.MPSON

MISSION STATEMENT: It lsBtFiiie mission of THE
RING—TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
into news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published M0n.days during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING—TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@wlu.edu, but
is otherwise lndependent.THE RING—TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

THE RING—TUM PHI
UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540)458-4060
FAX: (540) 453-4059
EMAIL: PHl@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

ColumnistAli Greenberg explains when what is “right” is not right

 I am, undeniably,
a total liberal. I go
in and out of phases
where I like to pre-
tend I am some ﬂow-
 er child from the six-

ties, or Penny Lane

   
   

0 following a band
' around the country
and leaving a trail of
patchouli.

This means that I
I am quite left of cen-

ter, and social issues

tend to hold more
importance to me than ﬁscal ones. Universal
healthcare, legalizing marijuana, repealing
DADT, closing down Guantanamo—I am all
for it.

However, just because I am a Democrat
does not mean I am always 100% pleased with
our president or his government, and I do not
believe that Obama has been always been en-
tirely correct or efficient with all his choices
and policies (or sometimes lack of policies).

There are areas in which I am frankly dis-
appointed with our president’s inaction and I
had hoped that our government would have
come through on some big promises they
made that have not been fulﬁlled. I am sick of
hearing about change, and I am ready to see it.

Yet, through thick and thin, I will stand by
my man. I believe in the platform Obama ran
on and I believe that for the majority of this
term he has earnestly tried to deliver. Things
are sometimes simply easier said than done.

So while I could go on about a dozen hot
button topics, I am respecting my word count
limitation and am picking just one that I be-
lieve needs an imperative change: the legaliza-
tion of same-sex marriage and the increasing
of gay rights.

While we made incredible progress with
the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” there
is still much work to be done on the front of
marriage equality and true equality across the
spectrum of sexual and gender orientation.
Progress in this ﬁght is especially difﬁcult to

if " 5 :‘

Byhliﬁreleinb-erg
CULUMNIST

in “Almost Famous”, -

achieve since this is a topic our president has
sometimes shied away from, openly saying he
is not a proponent of legalizing gay marriage,
yet is not against the potential for civil unions
with similar legal rights.

I do not treat this issue with as much mod-
eration as our president and believe that in
twenty years we are going to look back and
won’t understand how we managed to success-

ple is made up of.

Marriage inequality is a dark mark on the
history of the United States. There is some-
thing to be said when our peer countries like
the United Kingdom, Norway, Portugal, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Canada, France and
Germany (among others) all recognize same-
sex marriages, civil unions or domestic part-
nerships with legal rights, and yet the United

In twenty years we are going to look back and won ’t under-

stand how we managed to successfully segregate an entire

community without reason

fully segregate an entire community without
reason. Denying basic rights such as marriage
to a perfectly law-abiding subset ofAmerican
society is inexcusable and unjust, and this is a
lesson we have learned time and time again.

So while over I5 individual states have
stepped up and passed laws recognizing same-
sex marriage, civil unions or domestic partner-
ships, these relationships are not recognized
by the federal government and are essentially
null and void ifthe couple moves to a state that
does not recognize their union.

According to the Human Rights Cam-
paign, “Because same-sex couples are denied
the right to marry, same-sex couples and their
families are denied access to the more than
1,138 federal rights, protections and responsi-
bilities automatically granted to married het-
erosexual couples.”

These rights range from the ability to make
emergency medical decisions for your partner
to receiving health insurance beneﬁts gener-
ally granted to an opposite-sex spouse, among
others. These are rights heterosexual couples
take for granted.

At the end of the day, this is a moral is-
sue, but not the kind that the religious zeal-
ots would like you to believe. Regardless of
whether marriage, in the Bible, is a sacred act
between a man and a woman, the legal rights
of that recognized union need to be extended
to all couples regardless of what sexes the cou-

States, who is supposed to be at the forefront
of all things democratic, doesn’t take a stand
for what is right.

So how does this fit in to the upcoming
election? Four of the candidates for the GOP
nomination have openly shown their oppo-
sition to gay marriage. Mitt Romney, Rick
Perry, Michelle Bachman and Rick Santorum
have all signed the National Organization for
Marriage Pledge that afﬁrms that if they are
elected they will “promise to defend DOMA
(Defense of Marriage Act), support a consti-
tutional amendment to protect marriage (be-
tween 21 man and a woman), appoint judges
who will be faithful to the Constitution, and
protect the religious liberty of marriage sup-
porters.”

While I would love for us to get the predic-

tion right come February, I dearly hope that ’

the incumbent wins regardless of the GOP
nominee. The election of one of these candi-
dates guarantees a huge blow to the ﬁght to
legalize gay marriage in the U.S.

With state after state stepping up and mak-
ing actual progress, it would be a shame to see
another four years go by without Federal ac-
tion, and that means you too, Barry. It is time
to see positive action forward with this issue;
we need to ﬁght for it instead of against it.

And to end with a joke: Everyone should
have the legal right to marry, and subsequently
divorce, whoever they please. But seriously.

‘at

 

  

  ‘ Airwave live othe radi

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011

S - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

arts&life

What’s hap enin’ in art World

Current events prove that artists are as quir

By Ryan Johnson
5 TA F F w R 1 T E R

The visual art world is a quirky, self-
perpetuating place. It is sometimes dif-
ﬁcult to understand and always impos-
sible to predict. What follows is a quick
outline of some eccentric people and no-
table events in the current scene.

Polish artist Roman Opalka wanted
to paint every number to inﬁnity. He
reached 5,607,249 before he passed
away in August. Opalka would paint
all the numbers he could in horizontal
rows on a canvas and then move to the
next one, each background progressively
lighter than the last. His project began in
1965 with the number I. From 1968 on-
ward he spoke each number into a tape
recorder as he painted it. Opalka intend-
ed his artwork to be an exercise in futil-
ity. He succeeded in that goal by failing
to reach inﬁnity.

Female artist Marni Kotak gave birth
to a boy inside the NYC Microscope
Gallery before about 20 gallery visitors.
Kotak delivered nine-pound Ajax Oct.
25 in the culmination of a performance
art piece titled “The Birth of Baby X.”
The artist used this unconventional piece
to challenge the taboos of childbirth by
treating it as a work of art. In the weeks
leading up to the actual birth, Kotak
spent her time in the gallery chatting

with visitors about childbirth and art.
The gallery installed a bedroom for her
to stay in and for the child birth to take
place. A video of the birth will be added
to the gallery installation.

The upcoming Green Box Project
promises to deliver a 2lst-century per-
spective on art. The project involves
about a thousand green boxes, each 6.5
cubic feet, which will be spread globally
throughout cities. When viewers use a
special app and point their smartphones
at the box, a piece of art, fashion, music,
or design will be revealed. The promot-
ers herald these augmented reality works
as a new art form. This is a chance for
hundreds of artists to interact with the
public sphere like never before. For
some viewers it will be an adventure to
view as many boxes as possible. For oth-
ers, or those without smartphones, there
is the exciting possibility of seeing green
boxes everywhere.

Chinese artist Ai Weiwei still has the
art community in an uproar. Ai, an art-
ist, architect, and journalist, created an
international furor with his political ac-
tivism in repressive China. The trouble
began several years ago. Ai helped de-
sign the Bird’s Nest stadium for the Bei-
jing Olympics, but was openly critical of

the lavishness the host nation displayed
during the ceremonies. Through his
blog and artwork he became a powerful
dissenter in the country. After suffer-
ing police brutality and intense govem-
ment scrutiny, Ai was arrested April 3
under ambiguous charges. Outraged at
this repression of free speech, the art
world (and diplomacy in general) rallied
around his cause through ofﬁcial state-
ments and websites like “Free Weiwei.”
On June 22 he was released, but hit with
a $2 million tax evasion charge and rigid
bail restrictions. Unfortunately for the
Chinese government, he now has more
inﬁuence than ever. Art Review maga-
zine named him the most powerful art-.
ist of the year, and Ai currently has over
108,000 Twitter followers, more than
twice as many as any other living artist.
The institution of art is by no means
invincible to the weak economy. Art
museums, which operate with the help
of private, corporate, state, and federal
funds, have felt the consequences of
budget deﬁcits. Private philanthropy is
being redirected towards the “essential”
aspects of the social sphere. State and
federal governments have received in-
creased pressure to focus funds on key
institutions like welfare or education.

Corporations that once provided steady
endowments are going out of business or
reducing their donations.

At the Cooper Union, an elite art,
architecture, and engineering school, ﬁ-
nancial stress is causing turmoil among
the faculty and students. Through a gift
by ‘Andrew Carnegie and through proﬁts
from its real estate holdings, the school
has traditionally offered a full scholar-
ship to every student who attends. But
the new school president has considered
charging full-time students a tuition fee
in light of budget shortfalls. The man-
agement has been unclear as to what
these prices will be and who will have
to pay. Frustrated by the lack of institu-
tional openness and angry at the possible
price hikes, students in all three schools
walked out and had class outside.

Financial restlessness extends to the
market prices for art, which have ﬂuctu-
ated over the last year. Established art-
ists, like Picasso, Johns, and Warhol tend
to always sell high, while lesser-known
ﬁgures, like Larry Rivers, Eric Fischl
and Francesco Clemente, have seen a
drop in prices. A resurgence of interest
in the Arte Povera movement of postwar
Italy has been followed by a surge in
market prices for that era of art.

and unpredictable as always, from live births and inﬁnite numbers

Two pieces by an artist of the time,
Alberto Burri, recently sold for more
than $8 million combined. A Land-
scape by Gustav Klimt, a traditionally
expensive artist, was sold on Novem-
ber 3 for $40.4 million. Who has the
money for this? Well, Sandra Bullock’s
son, Louis Bardo, is the new owner of
a notable Andy Warhol print, “Peaches.”
Bullock’s agents _bought it for him as a
gift, and one-year-old Louis probably
thanked them by drooling on it.

The much-anticipated “Paciﬁc Stan-
dard Time” initiative is upon us. A de-
cade in the making, this massive event,
organized by the Getty Foundation and
Getty Research Institute, brings togeth-
er more than sixty cultural institutions
in southern California to celebrate the
1945-1980 L.A. art- scene. It involves
several hundred exhibitions and events
throughout the area. “Paciﬁc Standard
Time,” which began in October and will
run through April of next year, is sure
to be a common topic of conversation
throughout art blogs and magazines un-
til then.

Students join music pros in special orchestra

The University—Shenana’oah Symphony Orchestra allows W&L students to perform with profession musicians

By Colleen Moore
STAFF wmrrn

Last Saturday night, the Universi-
ty-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra
(USSO) welcomed a full house in Wil-
son Hall.

USSO is a semi-professional orches-
tra in which professional musicians from
Harrisonburg, Charlottesville, Roanoke
and Blacksburg play with local residents,

   

advanced W&L students and professors.
Under the instruction of conductor Barry
Kolman, the orchestra practices every
Thursday night for two hours. They pre-
pare for a concert in Nov. and Feb. as
well as holiday concerts in Dec.‘and a
Holocaust Remembrance concert in the
spring (done with the wind ensemble

and choir‘ groups).

The orchestra was challenged to play
several classical pieces they had never
played before. The ﬁrst half of the con-
cert consisted of a piece by the composer
Nielson and another by Ariaga. In the
second half, they played a Mozart piano
concerto with the help of Professor Tim

Gaylard who stepped in last minute to
play the piano. He received a standing
ovation. ~

Cellist MaryAnne Vardaman enjoys
rehearsals and concerts with the USSO.

“The orchestra is great because it
gives students an opportunity to come
together and play music with their peers

and professors,” she said. “It is a unique
experience learning a piece with other
musicians and then being able to per-
form it just a few weeks later!”

, PAIGE GANCE/ arts&|ife editor
At WLUR’s Open Airwaves12-year-old Sara-Jane McDonald from Rockbridge Baths was voted the evening's best act after winning
ﬁrst place in the Solo Music category. Drew Martin '13 & the Limelights took ﬁrst place in Group Music, followed by Plank Road
Express, the E. Mann Band, and honorable mentions Tanner Newsy, Kane Thomas '14 & Band (above left), and Time Ghost. Scotty
Groth '13 took 2nd place in Solo Music behind McDonald, followed by honorable mentions Coy Ferrell '15 and Aaron Jeong '15. Alex
Minor'15 earned 1st place in spoken word, followed by honorable mentions Jack Burks '13 and Kenny Sharpless '12‘. The year's ﬁrst
of two open mic nights took place in the commons last Wednesday night. The entire event aired live on 91.5 FM.

6 -THE R|NG*TUM PH|- MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7,2011

GAB presents
Jazz in the
Living Room.

The Tom r
Artwick
Quartet
jazzed upithe
commons last
Tuesday.

 Band
members
include Tom
   ¢  >,   e   .   Artwick on
WMWmmmWMs r vl f d  A saxanda
   J”  a  Campbel on
uitar, Bob
owen on
bass and Phil
Riddle on
drums.

ma." -1*» “l" 5“

photos by Coy Ferrell

 

   

7 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

MONDAY,

sports

ALEXANIDER MARAGIIS

I described in a previous column how improbable it was for
the Cardinals to even be in the World Series. And now seeing
them win the whole thing makes me think I’m really dreaming.
They played (and Tony LaRussa managed) a hell of a series,
but I still think the Rangers did more to lose that series than the
Cardinals did to win it.

E

  

NOVEMBER 7, 2011

S'l‘l§l’llE1 I PECK

The St. Louis Cardinals: team of destiny?

For a team that was battling with Pittsburgh (I) for second
place in the NL Central for most ofthe first half of the season,
they certainly are unlikely champions. But an unlikely cham-
pion is a champion nonetheless.

If the Rangers had forfeited the World Series, or if Josh
Hamilton, Nelson Cruz, and Mike Napoli had all been stricken

The last three innings of Game 6 will get all the blame as
the worst played innings for the Rangers in this series—-and they
very well may be. Yet if we look closer, there is evidence of
other advantages that Texas managed to squander in this World
Series. ‘ .

The Rangers had a lot of things going for them coming out
of an ALCS victory over the Tigers: a fresher bullpen, extra
motivation from losing the Series the year before, and a slew

So, did the Cardinals actually win this year’s
World Series or did the Rangers lose it?
Stephen and Alex give their takes, what’s

yours? -

with a mysterious illness, then maybe that would qualify as
the Rangers “losing” the World Series instead ofthe Cardinals
winning it.

To say that the Rangers lost the World Series makes it sound
like they just gift wrapped four wins for the Cardinals. That
certainly is not the case. It trivializes the fact that St. Louis cur-

‘rently reigns as the best baseball team in the Major Leagues.

of players from that 2010 team with World Series experience.

For me, Game 3 in Texas represents the first signs of the Rangers’ ability to collapse. I under-
stand that being in the American League, the Rangers’ pitching staff rarely gets to face Albert
Pujols, but they probably should have done what smart teams consistently try to do——pitch
around him. Just do not ever give him good pitches to hit; I don’t care what the score or situ-
ation is. In Game 3, the Rangers gave him at least ﬁve good pitches to hit, and he hit three of
them a combined 1275 feet. I had always known that pitching was a soft spot for the Rangers,
but I was worried it would soon become a sinkhole. Again, 1 don’t want to take anything away
from Albert Pujols—-he’s as good a player as there is in baseball--but you just don’t throw him
fastballs down the middle.

In Game 6, the Cardinals were down to their last strike TWICE. Looking at the numbers,
David Freese’s ﬁrst career at—bat against Neftali Feliz produced one of the most improbable
and memorable moments of the season. In his career, Feliz has limited opposing hitters to
a .125 batting average after a 1-2 count, which is the count Freese had when he smashed a
triple over Nelson Cruz’s head to tie the game in the 9th. Feliz has converted on 88% of save
chances in his career; that may sound like a B+ to us students, but that’s pretty darned good
when you’re trying to get Major League hitters out. I’m essentially asking how does this Feliz
98 mph fastball get hit hard by a guy in his ﬁrst World Series who has only 667 career plate
appearances? I ‘

Speaking of hot hitters, Cruz’s terrible range in right ﬁeld killed Texas throughout the
playoffs. And even if he hadn’t hurt his groin earlier in the game, I still don’t think he makes
that catch.

In the 10th, Scott Feldman’s frisbee to Lance Berkman was shot into center ﬁeld to tie it in
the tenth and the series was essentially over. Well...not really, but how can we expect Texas
to regain any momentum on the road after seeing their lead fall apart two innings in a row?
I don’t know what qualiﬁes as a curse word for Josh Hamilton, but he probably said it when
the bottom of the 10th ended in a tie. The end of that inning is when the Rangers’ team men-
tality appeared to sink for good, causing Game 6 to end on a walk-off by F reese and perhaps
explaining why Texas played ﬂat for most of Game 7..

When teams choke like the Rangers did leading up to Game 7, and subsequently lose all of
their momentum, that remaining game is virtually meaningless. Anyone following the series
knew who was going to win, especially when the Cardinals threw Chris Carpenter out on the
mound to seal the deal. But Carpenter didn’t do it all by himself; the Rangers helped him all.

series in ending their season.

A fan of Texas would certainly disagree with me. Not once
but twice, the Rangers were one strike away from wrapping it
up in game six. They were caught stealing far too often. Their ace relievers Alexei Ogando
and Neftali Feliz, who throttled Detroit in the ALCS, looked exceedingly mortal against
the Cards.

But in all of those instances, St. Louis had to make plays to capitalize on the Rangers
mistakes. Yadier Molina, the best defensive catcher in the game, still had to rocket the ball
down to second to stop the Rangers from advancing, even if it was questionable to steal in
the ﬁrst place. Neftali Feliz, former Rookie of the year and owner of an 100-mile—per-hour
heater, can have a rocky ninth inning in game six, but David Freese still had to hit a rapidly
moving round ball with a round bat for a game-tying triple.

I guess what I’m saying is that I hatepthe phrase “we lost it” as opposed to admitting be-
ing beat. The Rangers did not forfeit. They competed. They wanted to win just as badly as
the Cardinals did. ltjust didn’t work out for them.

Yes, they made some errors and had some base running mistakes. Yes, they blew two
saves in game six. But they had another shot in game seven to win it all and couldn’t do it.
The Cardinals beat them. They made the Rangers pay for their mistakes.

lt’s too bad that this is even an argument because it takes away from St. Louis’s moment.
This is a team that stormed back in September from an 8.5 game deﬁcit to Atlanta for the
National League wild card to sneak into the playoffs. This is a team that knocked the Phila-
delphia Phillies, the prohibitive favorite to win it all, out of the playoffs in the ﬁrst round.
They bested Milwaukee’s powerful sluggers Prince Fielder and Ryan Braun in round two
to earn a berth in the World Series. And they cooled off the red hot Rangers to seal the deal.

The 2011 Cardinals should be remembered for Chris Carpenter outdueling Roy Halla-
day to defeat the Phillies, Albert Pujols channeling his inner Reggie Jackson and launch-
ing three home runs in game three of the World Series, and for little known David Freese
winning the World Series MVP award thanks to his .348 average and walk-off home run in
game six.

The Cardinals won the World Series. They are going to the White House. They are get-
ting championship rings.

The Rangers wanted all those things too. They just came up a little short to a better team.

 
  
 

volleyhtlll

s I orts udate

   

opponent date result

£‘£’.‘;‘{.‘f;.. Wesleyan 133% $323 .women’s soccer

Randolph-Macon 11/05 L1-3
opponent date result
Lynchburg 7 11/02 L0-1

,. . . . '
~ IIIBIIS Swllllllllllg
opponent date result E
. _ ootball
33252:“ 11712 ’L?f4?§’31
Catawba 11/05 w203—110 opponent date result

Hampden-Sydney 11/05 L 35-42

women’s swimming

opponent
Randolph-Macon

date result
11/05 W162-101

For a complete recap of each event,
please visit generalssportscom

 

 
 

  
 

8 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

sports

 

MONDAY, NO}/EMBER 7, 2011

ondeck

MON TUES WED THURS FRI SAT SUN
Scranton
Wrestling "Wile
10:00 am
Men's
Swimming
vs
Women's sweet
Swimming Bria’
6:00 pm
Men's NCAA
Regional
Cross Country 1200 pm
Women's NCAA
Regional
Cross Country 10:00 am
Sweet
Riding Briar|HSA
invite
Golf

in the numbers
4909

Penn State head coach Joe Paterno has won this many career
college football games as a head coach, breaking the previous

record for Division I wins set by Eddie Robinson.

11

Surﬁng legend Kelly Slater has ofﬁcially won this many world
championships, a new record, after Sunday's Rip Curl Pro
Search in San Francisco. He was thought to have won it the
weekend before, but the Association of Surﬁng Professionals
determined it made a calculation error andhad crowned him

prematurely.

0

The number of games the Indianapolis Colts have won this sea-
son.They are the only winless NFL team.The 0-9 Colts lost their
most recent game 31-7 to the Atlanta Falcons. At one point in
the game, they went 30 minutes without getting a ﬁrst down,
and they have been outscored 120'-24 this season, including

75-14 in the ﬁrst half.

46

Number of games Boise State quarterback Kellen Moore has
won in his college career, setting the NCAA FBS record for wins _

by a quarterback. His 46th came in a 48-21 win over UNLV.

soapbox

“When I looked at the wire and I saw white
Isaid, ‘You’ve got to be kidding me. Mike
Smith. Ugh.”’

-chantaIsutl1erland,the]oek91whorode(iameOnDudeto
aseoond place1ln|shln1he$5mlIllon Braaderwcupclaalc,
wasbealnndownﬂiestretch byherax-1|anceM|kaSmIu1.
ﬂd|n¢DroeseImeyar.111efonnerooup|e,to¢sIheron andoﬂ
forslxyaars, bmkaup In 2010, butremaln cordial, oourlnsy
ESPN.com.

“The players will not be intimidated. They
want to play, they want a season, but they
are not going to sacriﬁce the future of all
NBA players under these types of threats of
intimidation. ”

- NBA playaI'saItomeyJeI‘I'rwKaadersaId earlysunday

aﬂiaroU1thoursofne¢ouatloriswIﬂiNBAawriersstreuehed
|ataInl:omenlglILThera|ssl:|llnoendlnslglItfor1ho

Ioclout.0outrasyFuxsports.oom.

 

50 years ago in its Nov. 6, 1961 issue, Sports Illustrated ran a story on the football program at

' Washington and Lee, written by Walter Bingham. The Phi wanted to run it again.

A Sport For Gentlemen ,

At Washington and Lee University, deep in the heart of the Confederacy,
football is a winning game even though it is played purely for fun

Standing shoulder to shoulder with the
undefeated football teams of the nation#
Michigan State, Alabama, Texas,Mississippi,
Colorado and Ohio State—is Washington and
Lee, which last Saturday won its fifth game
of the season by beating Emory and Henry
27-6. While naturally proud of its record,
students at Washington and Lee are quick—
even happy—to admit that their team is not
in the same class with those other undefeat-
ed teams. At Washingtonand Lee football is
strictly amateur. No athletic scholarships are
given, nor have any been given for the past
seven years, a decision which at the time it
was taken brought screams of protest from
ardent alumni. But this year’s team, made up
purely of students who play football rather
than football players who study, is proving
that winning football on an unsubsidized ba-
sis can be as much fun to play and as exciting
to watch as any football anywhere.

Washington and Lee, of course, is not the
only college to have abandoned big-time foot-
ball. The University of Chicago, in perhaps
the most famous instance of de-emphasis,
dropped football completely in 1940 after 44
years in the Big Ten. Carnegie Tech, a football
power of the ‘20s, toned down its schedule
in 1936, just as Johns Hopkins (SI, Dec. 5)
had done the year before. Santa Clara, which
twice played in the Sugar Bowl and once in
the Orange, withdrew from national compe-
tition in 1952, although it has been creeping
back quietly during the past two years. Of all
the schools that have in varying degrees de-
emphasized their football programs and kept
them that way,Washington and Lee, which
has not lost a game since 1959, has been the
most successful.

Washington and Lee University is located
in Lcxing- ton, Virginia, deep
in Civil War
Country, a
school of red
brick
ings fronted by
white columns. The grounds are hilly and

crowded with giant elms. Reminders of the_

Civil War and its Southern heroes are ev-
erywhere. Robert E. Lee is buried on cam-
pus. Stonewall Jackson lies not far away in
the Stonewall Jackson Memorial Cemetery.

. There is a Robert E. Lee Hotel, a Robert E.

Lee Church and a Stonewall Jackson Hospi-
tal. No university ofﬁce is considered prop-
erly furnished without a portrait of Lee.

Washington and Lee is a gentleman’s uni-
versity. Coats and ties must be worn in class.
When one student passes another on campus,
it is customary for both to say hello. The
honor system prevails, and violators are dis-
ciplined by the students themselves.

It was‘ partly to preserve this reputation
that the university decided in 1954 to secede
from big-time football. The 1950 team had
been a powerhouse, winning eight of its 10
games, being ranked 15th in the country and
going to the Gator Bowl. To maintain its emi-
nence in competition with larger schools like
Tennessee, Maryland, Navy andAlabama,
Washington and Lee had offered athletic
scholarships to boys who, in the words of one
university professor, “were not Washington
and Lee types.”

When the football teams of the next three
years did poorly, causing alumni to press for

even more athletic scholarships, the time for a '

policy decision was at hand. The football pro-
gram was costing the university a great deal
of money. The football players, on the whole,
were proving scholastically inferior. Still, it
is possible that the Board of Trustees might
haveyielded to the pressure of the alumni
had not a large portion of the football team
been caught cheating during the ﬁnal exams
of 1954. Somehow they had made duplicate
keys to rooms where exams were kept and
had bought off the janitor. Those caught were
expelled immediately, but the feeling still ex-
ists that many more violators graduated be-
fore an investigation could be carried out.

A month later the Board of Trustees an-
nounced that Washington and Lee would
award no more athletic scholarships and

that the football schedule for that fall would
be canceled. When the university resumed
varsity football the next season, 1955, it
was against teams like Sewanee, Centre and
Hampden-Sydney.

It was a lean season. The team lost all its
games and scored only four touchdowns. In
one game it gained only three yards. “No one
covered our games,” says Frank Parsons, the
university’s sports publicity man. “It was
lonely in the press box. Just the P.A. announc-
er, a statistician and me.”

It was lonely in the stands, too. What few
people would come to watch a game usually
left at halftime for the warmth of the fraterni-
ty house and the big game on national televi-
sion. “It took guts to watch our games,” says
one professor.

Not many boys turned out for football that
ﬁrst season of unsubsidized football. During
practice one afternoon Boyd Williams, an as-
sistant coach, told all the ends to follow him
down to a corner of the ﬁeld. Williams trot-
ted to the appointed spot and when he turned
around found that he was being followed by
only one man.

The pressure to return to big-time foot-
ball increased after the winless 1955 season.
Campus polls favored it. “The students were
embarrassed to have schools like Hampden-
Sydney as opponents,” says one faculty mem-
ber.

One professor took his daughter to a den-
tist on a Saturday in 1955. “His waiting room
was crowded with children," he recalls, “but
when he saw me hetook me aside and started
arguing that Washington and Lee just had to
return to big-time’ football. He got so worked
up over it I decided right then not to let him
work on my kids teeth anymore.”

The weakest link

 ll 1 I <0 W 1%/\Cl<

A lo- cal columnist urged
the university to give up football entirely.
“If a football team is to be a link between a
school and its alumni, it had better be a stron-
ger link than the 1955 Washington and Lee
team.” Many inﬂuential alumni, through the
press, seconded the motion. “They were like
a bunch of kids who had their little red wagon
taken away,” said a former player recently.

After Washington and Lee won only one
game in 1956, Coach Bill Chipley was ﬁred.
“It was a ticklish situation,” says one faculty
member. “It didn’t look too good, ﬁring the
coach just after we had de-emphasized.” The
official statement released by the university
explained that Chipley had been let go be-
cause he was not “a good teacher of football.”

In his place the university hired Lee
McLaughlin, a solidly built man in his late
30s with a grin as wide as his shoulders. When
he held his ﬁrst football meeting, less than 20
boys showed up. “It had become fashionable
not to play football,” says Frank Parsons.
“Boys used to say, T was great in prep school‘,
but I wouldn’t play here.’ “

“People used to come up to me and say,
‘lsn’t it a shame that so-and-so hasn’t "come
out for football,” McLaughlin says. “I’d tell
them maybe, but I don’t think so-and-so
could make our team. I knew we couldn’t get
anywhere until we stopped making heroes out
of boys who didn’t want to play.”

McLaughlin traveled about looking for
football players, although he could not, of
course, offer anything more than a good edu-
cation. He covered New England, concentrat-
ing on Connecticut. “Many of our boys come
from prep schools,” he says. “You can’t throw
a rock in Connecticut without hitting a prep
school.” McLaughlin used to get depressed
when prospective Washington and Lee foot-
ball players were lured away by athletic
scholarships. “I’ve gotten used to it now,” he
says. “Recruiting is like selling insurance. If
you see a thousand boys, maybe you get 10.”

What Washington and Lee liked best
about Lee McLaughlin ‘is the way he ac-
cepted the de-emphasized football program.

He held a spring practice, but it was only for
two weeks in February so that the boys were
free to go out for spring sports. Daily work-
outs in the fall were only an hour and a half,
and if a boy could not make practice because
of studies, McLaughlin understood. In fact,
several times he ordered boys not to show up
for practice because he knew they had impor-
tant tests coming up. He held a weekly skull
session, an hour every Monday night. If the
session ran past the hour, McLaughlin told his
boys that they were free to leave.
McLaughlin’s ﬁrst two seasons were no
better than Chipley’s, but in that second year
many of the boys who form the foundation
of this year’s ﬁne team arrived on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus. One was Terry Fohs,
the 145-pound linebacker who consistently

leads the team in tackles. “One of the reasons"

I came to Washington and Lee is that I knew I
could make the team,” he says.

A Quarterback Steve Suttle had no intention
of playing college football. McLaughlin in-
vited him out to watch a practice session one
day. “When I saw that the players weren’t a
bunch of goons,” says Suttle, “I changed my
mind.” Suttle also went back to his dormitory
and talked his friend Ned Hobbs into trying
out. Hobbs became the right end and is now
a captain of the team. Jerry Hyatt had never
played football before he entered Washing-
tonand Lee, because his high school in Mary-
land had no team. Hyatt tried out anyway,
made the team and is now an outstanding
center. .

In 1959 the team won three games, one
more than it had won.the previous four sea-
sons. And last yearWashington and Lee was
undefeated, being tied only by Johns Hop-
kins. With each victory the howls of the

alumni to return to big-time football

diminished and interest

V in the team grew. Once

again people showed up to

.I watchwashington and Lee

play football, and if most

of them still left at half time occasionally it

was because the team was winning by such
big scores, not losing. -

This year’s team, after barely winning its
ﬁrst game against Hampden-Sydney 7-6, has
scored 148 points in its next four games to its
opponents’ 12. There have been no outstand-
ing stars, although Fohs, the little linebacker,
has again led.the defense. A dozen players
have scored touchdowns for Washington and
Lee. In last week’s victory over Emory and
Henry, for instance, the four touchdowns
were made by four different men. Coach
McLaughlin generally uses most of his 50-
odd players, not because he is kind but be-
cause the talent is evenly distributed.Wash-
ington and Lee uses a running game, passing
only when necessary. “When you pass,” says
McLaughlin, “three things can happen and
only one of them is good.”

The resurgence of football at Washington
and Lee has created a new worry among uni-
versity officials. At the close of last season
there were a few moments when it looked
as if the school might lose McLaughlin. Vir-
ginia was looking for a new football coach
and McLaughlin had graduated from there
in 1941. But McLaughlin, if he got an offer,
turned it down and now says he has no inten-
tion of ever leaving.

“I have the best coachingjob in the world,”
he says. “I have the rank of associate profes-
sor, tenure and extra beneﬁts. This is a nice
town, a ﬁne place to live. And I work with
nice boys.”

McLaughlin recently gave a small party
for some of the faculty. One of the guests was
Dana Swan, a young man who in his ﬁrst sea-
son as coach of the freshman team has had
the unhappy experience of watching his team
lose every game. In fact, the team has yet to
score a touchdown.

As the guests were leaving, McLaughlin
came over smilingly to Swan’s young wife.
“You’ve probably heard already,” he said,
“but in case you haven’t, your husband is do-
ing a ﬁne job.” At Washington and Lee, even
the football coach is a gentleman.

  goingto W&L sporting events?

   Email «at-pihi@wIu.edu, spicakd12@mAaiI. wIu.edu or

   71johnsj12@mail.wIu.edu. I

 

  

 

