 

  
  

  

W&L crushes Randy Mac.

 After a devastating defeat last Wednesday,
I   the Generals .came back swinging against .
the Yellowjackets, winning 43-25. ~

SPORTS / page 6

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2012

  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

‘ THE RING-TUM PHI. 

IV IRE SIIIIEIIJS AID Fllﬁ THE SIUIIEIIS SIIICE 1537 VOLUME CXV,NUMBER

Recent grads
share dreams

Career Services hosts

documentary screening
By Tilden Bowditch

‘STAFF WRITER

After graduating in 2009, Alexis Irvin and Chip
Hiden quit their desk jobs bought a ﬂip-cam and tri-
pod and set off on a road trip that they hoped would
change their lives- and hopefully, they say, the life of
any college student with a dream.

Career Services hosted a screening of their docu-
mentary The Dream Share Project, in Stackhouse The-
ater on Tuesday, Jan. 31.

The documentary follows Irvin and Hiden on a
cross-country road trip as they interview people who
do what they love. In the ﬁlm, Irvin and Hiden ask
professors, entrepreneurs, and celebrities about the
meaning of success, risk-taking, and the rewards of
pursuing a dream.

“We wanted to take a road trip but we wanted to
make it more than a road trip. We wanted to do some-
thing that would make a difference,” Irvin said.

Over a span of three months, the two drove from
Maryland to California and back again, interviewing a
variety of professors, entrepreneurs, artists, and more.

In the ﬁlm, Irvin and Hiden explain how they stum-
bled across interesting characters to interview. Some
of these included a young CEO of an eco-friendly
ﬂip ﬂop company, a comedian from the original Latin
Kings of Comedy, and a Project Runway fashion de-
signer.

Neither Irvin nor Hiden knew much about making
documentaries before they embarked on their jour-
ney. Irvin studied print journalism at the University
of Maryland, and Hiden majored in history at Wash-
ington College. They used ﬂip-cams and a tripod to
record the interviews.

Washington and Lee University was the second of
35 colleges Irvin and Hiden will visit on their spring
tour. The two are showing their documentary to col-
lege students to inspire young people in taking risks
and pursuing dreams.

The screening at W&L was poorly attended. Only.

two or three students and a handful of Lexington resi-
dents came.

Stephen Twining, a junior at W&L, says he saw
notices on campus and thought the ﬁlm looked inter-
esting.

Twining called the ﬁlm as “eye-opening,” He said
it gave a realistic perspective of what it means to fol-
low a dream instead of taking the safe route.

“It didn’t glamorize it, but it deﬁnitely challenged
social norms and the pressures from society to do the
safe thing,” Twining said. ‘

“The ﬂip-ﬂop guy, for example, he didn’t have a
plan but just took risks and made some big moves and
it led to him ﬁnally discovering a really cool opportu-
nity,” Twining said

The ﬁlm encouraged young people to take big risks,
to step out of their comfort zones and to do something
they love.

Irvin said they are working on a book proposal
for the fall. “It’ll be a self-help guide for college-age
people.”

1

Mock Con comes to town

Four years of preperation concludes Thursday with opening debate and address

By Neil Haggerty
STAFF warren

With about a year of prepara-
tion, the Washington and Lee Mock
Convention is ready to go this week.
Events begin this Thursday and the
Republican nominee for president
will be announced on Saturday.

Throughout the school year stu-
dents have been getting ready for
Mock Con by joining state delega-
tions, attending the Mock Con Gala
and purchasing memorabilia.

Students can purchase ties, shirts,
glasses and state delegation shirts at
store.mockconvention.com and in
the Commons Living Room through
Feb. 9.

On Wednesday and Thursday stu-
dents must pick up their tickets for
the convention in the Elrod Com-
mons Living Room. According to
the Mock Con schedule released last
week, students will not be admitted
into the convention if they do not
pick up their tickets and each person
may only pick up his or her own cre-
dential.

From 5-6:30 p.m. on Thursday,
the debate between Ann Coulter and
David Carville will be held in the
Warner Center. Mike Allen ’86 and
Kelly Evans ’07 will moderate.

Following the debate in the War-
ner Center, students can see opening
speaker Mike Huckabee from 7-8
p.m.

While there are no seating des-
ignations on Thursday’s events, stu-
dents must sit with their state delega-
tion on Friday and Saturday.

On Friday morning from 9:30-
10:00, students can grab a bite to eat
at the Hillel Bagel Breakfast. This
will be immediately followed by the
Mock Con Parade, where all delega-
tions will be able to show off their
state ﬂoats. The parade will last until
11:30 a.m.

From 1-4:30 p.m. on Friday, the
ﬁrst session, including speeches by
Virginia Gov. Bob McDowell, At-

Newfarrnraises

 

a and" pie _. g,

  

= Chin
tomey General Ken Cuccinelli, U.S.
Rep. Shelley Moore Capito and
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor,
will be held in the Warner Center.
Session two of the convention
will begin again at 7:00 p.m. end-
ing at 10:00 p.m. This will include
speeches by recently announced
Congressmen Thaddeus McCotter
and J.C. Watts. According to mock-
convention.com, McC otter currently
represents Michigan’s llth Congres-
sional District and Watts represented
Oklahoma’s fourth Congressional

dF«ffy.- . 
, idat'e,Iwill ad rt '
District until 2003.

Following these two speakers will
be Jon Huntsman, former candidate
for the 2012 Republican presidential
nomination.

From 10 a.m. until 1 p.m. on Sat-
urday, the third session of Mock Con
will begin and will feature speakers
Dick Morris, Attorney General Hen-
ry McMaster, Rep. Bob Goodlatte,
former Virginia Gov. George Allen
and Sen. Fred Thompson, according
the Mock Con Schedule.

The ﬁnal session of the con-

  

vention will go from 3-6 p.m. and
will feature keynote speaker Haley
Barbour. This session will include
the state roll call as well as the an-
nouncement of the 2012 Republican
presidential nominee.

Concluding the Convention will
be one ﬁnal band party celebration at
the Pavillion. This will begin at 8:30
p.m. and will conclude at 1 a.m., fea-
turing Full Metal Jacket.

questions

W&L sustainability committee wonders how new land can e used educationally

ByTommy Kent
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University’s
purchase of Warner Farm, a tract of
land contiguous to back campus, has
led to discussion by members of the
Sustainability Committee and other
faculty on how to use the land. Be-
cause more than half of the land is
under a conservation easement, the
types of activities that can take place
are limited.

The land, purchased in Decem-
ber 2010, consists of approximately
89 acres of land divided into 4 par-
cels. According to the Rockbridge
Country GIS website, the total val-
ue of Warner Farm, also known as
Peniel Farm, is around $299,000,
with improvements adding another
$828,600.

Although discussion still con-
tinues long after its purchase on the
various ways to use the property, the
reason for the buy arose from the op-
portunities that it presented.

Steve McAllister, the Treasurer
and Vice President for Finance, said,
“The majority of the University’s
property is ‘land-locked’ and sur-
rounded by small individual parcels
that create a challenge economically
and politically to acquire for purpos-
es of ‘banking’ land for future use.
There simply is no other proximate
parcel to the University that provides
the quality and quantity of land that
the Warner property brings to the
University.

Approximately 69 acres of the
property is under a conservation
easement, prompting many to won-
der how the school can make effec-
tive use of the area.

“The conservation easement per-
petually protects the property from
any further state of development,”
Jill Fraley, a property professor at the
law school, said.

Easements are often put around
rivers in order to protect the view
and prevent non-point source water
pollution, such as land run-off from
grazing cattle, F raley said. Although
roads and buildings cannot be built
within the easement, recreational ac-
tivities and farming are permitted.

According to geology professor
David Harbor, the conservation ease-
ment has led to the question of what
can be done on the property and dis-

cussion by the sustainability commit-

tee. The committee, which includes
Prof. William Hamilton, Chris Wise,
Fraley, and James Dick, is working
on coming up with ways to use the
land at Warner Farm.

According to Harbor, discussion
is important. “I want people to start
thinking about land-use,” he said. He
said he wants to try and get students
to visit the property during the spring
and wants the local community to
think about sustainability.

Dick, director of campus rec-
reation, said there will have to be a

compromise on everyone’s part in
deciding on what to do with the land
and also mentioned the importance
of focusing on the short-terrn.

“For the ﬁrst 1-3 years, it is go-
ing to be: what is the easiest thing
to pick from the tree. All of these
low-hanging fruit items are the most
obtainable; it takes nothing to use
the property to go out and star-gaze
or to mark trails. All it takes is for
people to buy-in,” Dick said. He said
the ideas are endless and suggested
mountain biking, hiking, camping,
use of the water access for canoes,
tree identiﬁcation, teaching and gar-
dening.

Hamilton said he would like to use
the land for summer research, specif-
ically about the ecological questions
brought up by grazing and fecal con-
tamination in local waterways. He
also said, in theory, the compost fa-
cilities and campus garden could be
relocated to the property.

According to Wise, the Environ-
mental Management Coordinator,
W&L has had experience with prop-
erty like this before. Skylark, a 365
acre farm on the Blue Ridge Parkway
about 40 minutes from campus, was
formally owned by the University
but was sold in the fall of 2010 due
to its limited use and cost of main-
tenance. The site was used a confer-
ence center, but wasn’t used much as
an educational opportunity.

“[The Warner F ann] deﬁnitely
has the possibility for education and
research that we were thinking about
doing with Skylark,” Wise said.

Laura Henry Stone, a professor of
environmental studies, also support-
ed this idea of possibilities. She said
she would like to see the land used
for teaching sustainability skills, es-
pecially regarding agriculture. She
said growing food is a good way for
students to see their connection to the
natural world and the importance of
land to a species.

Henry-Stone said, “Planning for
sustainability is about taking advan-
tage of opportunities. A lot of col-
leges are obtaining property like this.

‘It is sort of a national conversation

about how to use the land. It is not
an unusual approach. I think what I
am most excited about is starting a
campus—wide conversation about the
best way to be stewards of the land.”

“There are opportunities for ev-
eryone. These are all ideas. If every-
one can agree on an idea, then it will
get done. Who knows where it will
go from there?” Wise said.

 

WAS

UNIVERSITY usimzy
HINGTON 3. LEE uurvsnsm
LEXINGTON; VA 24450

‘*';-“B 0 R 9913
2 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

  

MONDAY,FEBRUARY 6, 2012

  opinions

 

The O strich Doctrine

Columnist Yates Wilburn comments on the United State is tenden

In recent
weeks, Chinese
. oppression in
Tibet has been
in the news more
often than nor-
mal. Two things
have brought
this common oc-
currence to the
front of inter-
national media:
I) The Tibetan
New Year is
coming up, 2) a
local I Buddhist
monk set himself on ﬁre calling for the
return of the Dalai Lama and the end of
the Chinese occupation of the country.
This is not a new form of protest; it was
used to set off the Arab Spring last year
in Tunisia. However, it has been a while
since Tibet has been in the forefront of
global discussion, so it is unique in that
regard. This all plays into a discussion

 

By Yates Wilburn
co LU M N IST

about the larger issue of Chinese op-,,

pression as a whole, and in particular
the oppression of new media (soci

networking, blogging, and text messag »

ing) within China. Since the advent 0
this powerful means of communicatio ,
China has been particularly effecti e
and brutal in the suppression of its

as a political tool, thanks in large ’
the Western world’s adoption of W
call the “Ostrich Doctrine,” a st "egy
calling for willful ignorance or, ctive
assistance of China’s oppressionyof its

actions against the citizens of
— ple’s Republic, the Western wo .
much of the blame. If the CC ’ “pulle

the trigger,” the Western worldadertainly I

had a hand in providing the g ".
New media is something t S-"

to monitor, control, or outr
certain circumstances with
assistance, at least not _,
tively as it does today‘
unable to grasp tliptfhrea

, _ _. machines and page
«~ of the Tiananmgﬁ Square
Massage; in 1989, and failedgﬂi halt their
effective use during theélwél/ents of the
protests (Time Magazi, °‘ “Fax Against
Fiction”). Such an inagility to mitigate
the damning use of the Internet against
the government had to be corrected to
insure the survival of the CCP as the

  

woulp ave _. ' to the Inte’-‘If t by th
ﬁlin ofmthat (rt iii 2006. ' ﬁr basi ;.
penéorship, t nesepgovemriﬁnt cre-
Intern div iong  tli‘el§;3§t
 inist ’ on d%Radio, '9 '
_ and Film F‘ "

    
 
 
 

Lin "regent revloh _ in the Middle East,

dominant political party in China while
the capitalistic reforms of Deng Xiao-
peng swept through China.

A 2006 Frontline report character-
ized this challenge best in stating, “Any
regime attempting to combine econom-
ic freedom with rigid one party rule is
faced with a challenge. How do you al- I
low in all the information necessary to
keep a free-market economy running,

while ﬁltering out anygjn ctthat earrrﬁﬂthe whim of the Chinese government’

tradicts the party line undermines
its authority?”_
Internet, a fr  open source of in
formation ac’ sible to anyone with 
connectio I” PC, poses an enorrno  
threat to a "gevemment anemptinga
accomplisig “Q sauthoritargian-capitalisgg
political gfsyst ’ ..The PRCl‘.had to act?
fast, a_ ‘ﬁver llion peopl; in Chi ,'

   
     
      
   
  
 
   
   
  
  

  

« affed

ny, “Frontline: The Tank Man”).
laces everything that goes beyond
mple blocking or banning of sites

    
 

the Chinese market, they have bent over
backwards to please the Chinese govem-
merit,” even going so far as to “propose
to tailor their information system[s] to
ﬁt [the government’s] political censor-
ship needs.” The most notable of these
companies are Google, Cisco Systems,
Microsoft, and Yahoo!. These compa-
nies app_€,§I;,,,..,totally- willing in numer-
ous» c'irie'é?I‘ftIstan ’ Ito»-eysirnply l1)“C)_\j__\_/m'[0

in hopes of tapping into thewraprdly in-

The .very nature of the gﬁaéreasing Interng maglget. of China, ﬁrd

having been accused of US anti-trust
law violations (Follett, Jennifer H. “Cis-
co Accused of Monopoly In Anti-Trust
Lawsuit” CRN.com), found guilty of
$824 million worth of tax fraud in Bra-
zil (Duffy, Jim “Cisco Offices Raided,

cy to bury its head in the sand on Chinese oppression

cusses the Golden Shield program three
times on two pages, and calls on viewers
of the presentation to “treat information
system construction for public security
as a strategic and comprehensive wor ”
(Cisco Systems, Overview of the Public

Executives Arrested in Brazil: Reports_:_gSecurity Sector).

NetworkWorld.com), and’ accj,jse!'.l"”‘of
misleading its own share

e'is (Cj,seo”‘

There are many more instances of
all-this active cooperation and capitula-

Systems, “Cisco Slgarehdldergcdass A_<_:-..,»¢iofl“1“'o the"’CllTl‘lUSe authority, especially

 Lawsuit Res61ye’d”). Or; 413“...   ..

tiesZ'in"(3«h.iI_}a, S5;%‘aalY_rjg§2Irs -sourcssi:blyu=l;;:,en
swpieces of evide_rIce“:.FH'8Tgn Relations Tﬁuthbggation Act.

provided nume

the immense p I Tfial revenue stré'§rn_..--. jt aint anrI't' ' reaf 'ust"l1b"'
W . P if-L mgllymtu .1

that it represenm'This«pl‘I€n§rrrenorl‘g3es
far beyond”§l”r‘rTplrsfoll8wing the law of
the land in China.J,Ma,ny of»t3l;_g;s_§,,gom-

panies havef_latt§m‘pte_d to actively zslaiigﬁsevfﬁsldoilrnt of one I‘ lit al egrilel

the various security rIiéeds'“"ot"tfi2§“Cl1,_i,r1ese, ' ‘
:3 .~.= " .‘,.’I.

government, and7§Qgve3g,gepted- products

revolv'mg.around the“‘increasing demand

  

“Id of new rn_ " _ g 
 tion [v§Tfh]...Chine érpolice," Ya-
’  "  adapters,

8
Possibly theimost fa 4
pant in this cooperation is a ,
the most famous symbol of lgtegéet

,.v

freedom. Google, before it aba ‘ cl

 
     

ment ﬁnds unwanted

  
  
  
  
   
   
 

like Facebook, Twitter, or CNN solely
on the shoulders of Western tech ﬁrms.
This technology is key to the success
of the Chinese Internet censorship re-
gime. The ability to monitor Internet ac-
tivity on a certain website, change or de-
leteapastigrgs, block sites like Facebook
Twjtteia» at were so instrumental

“-1. r~

simple for a trained cl" 
However, for the PRC s purposes,

is not enough. It is for this reason"that,mtby in fﬁogit offﬁgem  

the CCP has relied and continue$’i3tg’gj¢’l'3"?
on Western tech ﬁrms and their supﬁigr

training and knowledge of new mediai’“1'*/'**-?

and the Internet as a whole.

DESIGN EDITOR

BUSINESS MANAGERS

DISTRIBUTION STAFF

MELISSA CARON

MATT GOSSETT
DAVID WILSON

DILLON MYERS
BRIAN SIMPSON
KANE THOMAS

And

- Western
 [gch ﬁnns
TH RI P  
  E NCI-TUM HI. more than
happy to
answerthe
MANAGING EDITOR DIANDRA SPICAK calltoser.
NEWS EDITOR ELEANOR KENNEDY Vim As
OPINIONS EDITOR CAMPBELL BURR Nicholas
ARTS&L|FE E.DlTOR PAIGE GANCE Belequin
SPORTS EDITOR LEIGH DANNHAUSER stated in
COPY EDITORS CYNTHIA LAM an imer_
ERIN SCHWARTZ View with

STAFF WRITERS JOHN PAUL BEALL F’°““‘“"~
TILDEN BOWDITCH “all the
NEIL HAGGERTY maior IT

TOMMY KENT compa-
KELSY MCCRAW nies in the
COLLEEN MOORE West have
ZACKARY RICHARDS not only

  embraced

 

 

 
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
   
     
      
      
     
   

    

operations based in Mainland I ‘
2010, censored itself by prohi I‘
display of results that the 
emment ﬁnds unwanted. A spj'_i
ample was demonstrated in the
report, as the program show” 2
results for the search query 1‘

Square” and then showed’

-

..«\_!a'tTithe Ch‘ tr .2;
‘ 'ldescrib_ if e*Cl? -I A
re-4ry“’1’t§» 1

Q
 ,¢0—’3*'.«rs

   
 
    
  
 

 mp . 

 
 
 
  

far>,,.Cisco is 
pa ‘ its proﬁt marg _
;1necdotal,,cas,g, F rorrtline 0

..d

 

 

emize the police.
prograflﬁ, lgnow  G 
ganqoperatyiéﬁgfi 2003’
. ', ’ ’ a gigantic _
I. an all—encompassing s .
I rk ~ incorporating speech and fac
ition, closed-circuit television,
cards, credit records, and Inter-
“ surveillance technologies” (Greg
Wa tr, Rights and Democracy). This
massrfge undertaking requires the latest
in lrrtgnet and networking technologies,
an is such the Chinese government
soigght out the biggest and the best in
thﬁgbusiness: Cisco Systems. Wu, pos-
i was a provider of surveillance prod-

   

 
  
 

 

uc
ﬂgtﬁiléflrghout China and offered to provide
  with various database management
antdﬁjurveillance technologies. However,
eac _::time, the police agency would say

 e “was too late” and that they “al—
wreagi had the latest technology from 
'“Ci1s'®.” According to Wu, Cisco signed
multiple deals with many provincial
 departments across China, pro-

_ pos  g to “help make [the police’s] work
0

“  1 effective.” These deals, according

t u, covered the supply of numerous

 

_) V, cts that would aid in several as-
pefﬁts of police work in China, includ-

ts for*”;‘.ig._,i,r‘1gf,3‘5“patrol car to patrol car connection,”

the s  West, “lfﬁtrol to police station connection,’’
‘ __*$l1oviI"i‘r’1g..t%“§oice identification,” and “ﬁngerprint
_, Man,” the  igentiﬁcation.” Cisco defended itself in

ing  movgg Hovillgyer, irfighina,‘ J
 V;-';’rii‘%s', architecture, cooking
hints, and smiling tourists posing in the
square.” This active Capitulation to the
Chinese authorities has allowed the CCP
to re-write history by nearly completely
erasing the Tiananmen Square massa-
cre of 1989 from the national memory,
as the Frontline television program ex-
posed. The Frontline reporters gathered
four students from Beijing University
and showed them the iconic picture of
the “Tank Man” to see if they could
recognize the picture and the event it
symbolized. However, as stated by the
program’s narrator, “they were bafﬂed.”
The students thought the picture de-
picted everything from a “military cer-
emony” to a “piece of artwork.” One
student even asked the interviewer, “Did
you make this up?” (Thomas, Anthony,
“Frontline: The Tank Man”).

Cisco Systems, however, is by far the
biggest culprit in this incredible conspir-
acy. Cisco is no stranger to controversy,

     

McCraw responds to the $4

“ written statement to Frontline, stating
hat it “sells identical products world-
ide” and that it is “the customer, not
Cisco who determines how speciﬁc ca-
pabilities will be used” (Thomas, Antho-
ny, “Frontline: The Tank Man”).
However, this claim was largely
debunked in 2008, when Wired News
journalist Sarah Lai Stirland reported
on a leaked Cisco internal document,
which displayed “Cisco engineers re-
garded the Chinese govemment’s rigid
intemet censorship program as an op-
portunity to do more business with the
repressive regime.” The document was
a PowerPoint presentation dated 2002,
that outlined how Cisco may service
the needs of the Chinese govemment’s
attempts to upgrade its censorship capa-
bilities. A particular part of the presenta-
tion highlighted by Stirland was under
the heading “Cisco Opportunities” that
“provides bulletpoint suggestions for
how it might service China’s censor-
ship system” (Sarah Lai Stirland, “Cisco
Leak: ‘Great Firewall’ of China Was a
Chance to Sell More Routers”). The
document speciﬁcally names and dis-

      
 

dle down a river?

_o in order to ex- 3‘

contacted various police agencies”

to

omysystems, which
in "violation of the

 

89, this act forbade“the stills; of “any

'uct_1ont‘rol or detecgion jnsttuments

or I uilflent” ». I - ' C.  claims

uipment géuch as

   

       
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
      

' .= * mas, Anthony,

“Frontline: The  Man”). Although

the US government could not possibly‘

hope to actually force China to halt its
consistent violations of the human rights
of its citizens, either through bi-lateral
negotiations, or in one of many IGO’s as
stated earlier, it can halt its indirect par-
ticipation in the PRC’s efforts to crush
any and all resistance to the CCP’s au-
thority. Given the proactive nature of the
Obama administration in the recent rev-
olutions and revolts of the Arab Spring,
its silence over human rights violations
in China at the hands of US tech ﬁrms
serves as a black eye to the administra-
tion’s foreign policy legacy.

The participation of Western technol-
ogy ﬁrms in the Chinese govemment’s
upgrade and implementation of its new
media censorship programs is nothing
less than the participation in human
rights violations themselves. The sym-
biotic relationship that has developed
between the PRC and companies like
Google and Cisco Systems has carried
programs like Golden Shield to heights
and successes that quite possibly never
have been reached at the speed that they
were. Without Western tech assistance,
the PRC would have been forced to
bring its advanced new media censor-
ship and monitoring abilities (more than
simply blocking sites like Facebook, a
fairly simple task) into the 21st century
all by itself, being exposed to all the tri-
als and errors experienced by any new
program. If the failure of initiatives like
the Great Leap Forward are any indica-
tor, a program like Golden Shield could
have suffered severe setbacks during
development and implementation with-
out the aid of Western companies. For
pre-new media censorships, arrests, and
oppression, the CCP is to blame, but for
post-new media oppression, the respon-
sibility is shared by the CCP and by the
Western companies that capitulate to and
even aid the CCP’s efforts to put down
dissent and efforts for freedom.

Are outdoor fees fair?

fee to use Wildlife Management Areas

don’t-touch might have to do for

MISSION STATEMENT: It is the mission of THE
RING-TUM PHI to accurately, truthfully, and
thoroughly report news affecting the Washington
and Lee community for students, faculty,
parents and‘alumni. Our goal is to look deeper
info news affecting campus life and hold leaders
accountable. Through our reporting, we aspire
to spark discussions that lead to discovering
information that prompts change.

THE RING-TUM PHI is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year. THE RING-TUM
PHI is a member of The Media Board, which
can be reached at mediaboard@w|u.edu, but
is otherwise independent.THE RING-TUM PHI
welcomes all letters. We reserve the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and advertising do not necessarily reflect
the opinion of THE RING-TUM PHI staff. This
newspaper observes current court definitions of

libel and obscenity.

THE RING-TUM PHI

UNIVERSITY COMMONS ROOM. 341
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TELEPHONE: (540) 458-4060

FAX: (540)458-4059
EMAIL: PH|@WLU.EDU
SUBSCRIPTION RATE $45

  

 

' While to offer.
a skittish Hiking the Devil’s Marble
rodent Yard or House Mountain, tubing
spread down the Maury River, visiting
omens Goshen or Natural Bridge, all of
of more these activities (only to be expe-
win- rienced with a cooler full of beer)
ter last are on every W&L students’
week, graduation bucket list.
W&L But now, venturing into the
students great wilderness will cost us—$4
reveled per trip, to be exact.
in the The Virginia Department of
By Keisy Mccraw unsea- Game and Inland Fisheries just
COLUMNIST sonably updated its permit and license
warm requirements to include general
weather. “access” to any Wildlife Man-
Once the thermometer agement Areas (ie. all three list-

reached 55 degrees in Lexing-
ton, sorority girls’ skimped on

meals for fear of a premature

bathing-suit season.

One of the most iconic as-
pects of W&L life seemed closer
than ever—spring termea time
when academics are ‘an after-
thought to all that the season has

ed above).

Hiking, camping, tubing,
kayaking, walking, sitting, stand-
ing—~all will require a permit.
And try to play a friendly game of
ultimate Frisbee or kick around a

soccer ball, and you’ll be slapped

with a $14 “sportsman” fee.
What’s next, a waitlist to pad-

The VDGIF says that mainte-
nance of the state wildlife areas
necessitates the permit fees, and
that they can’t keep nature beau-
tiful or accessible without the ex-
tra money in this dire economy.
This seems like a stretch.

President Jimmy Carter once
said, “If we can teach our chil-
dren to honor nature’s gifts, the
joys and beauties of the outdoors
will be here forever.”

So, the ‘Commonwealth of
Virginia has told us that honoring

‘ nature’s gifts requires a ﬁnancial

transaction—capitalism at its ﬁn-
est.

The natural beauty of the
Rockbridge area is undeni-
ably one of its greatest aspects
(not counting the meth rings, of
course). Just one look at the val-
ley’s landscape can be as hum-
bling as Calculus 102 is to ajour-
nalism major.

Well, from now on, look—but-

some people.

Perhaps, you think I’m over-
reacting. Even the $14 sports-
man fee is a drop in the bucket
for most W&L students. How-
ever, when 12.4% of Rock-
bridge County lives under the
poverty level and the county has
an average individual income of
$23,753, I can’t help but wonder
how often they will be experienc-
ing the great outdoors.

I’ll still be ﬁnishing off my
to-do list this spring, but the Ron
Paul in me wants not to ﬁnish
out of protest... Or perhaps, just
without a permit in an act of deﬁ-
ance.

Either way, and as trivial as
it may seem compared to greater
issues like, say, the war, I can’t
help but think the government
is reaching out a begging hand
where it doesn’t belong.

 

 

‘-- ---—¢- as u-....,.. ,. ........ -.. . «n t. ..  . -\.._...

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 20l2

 

i \

3 - THE RING-TUM PHI -

 

 

 

. A case for 1

Should a candidate is personal life determ e whether we support

With the
much-anticipat-
ed’ Mock Con-
vention around
the corner, fol-
lowed by an
election for the
history books,
there is a lot of
conversation
about the is-
sues that divide
the parties, and

I ByJo|-m pa._,|5e3|| those that odi-
co|_up.m|5r vide Republican
nominee from

nominee. There has been so much dis-
cussion about issues, that the line that
divides the important ones front silly

‘ non-issues has become blurred. It is for

the dignity of our political discourse——
what’s left of it, that is—that we identify
these triﬁing issues and dismiss them,
because they really have no bearing on
the problems this country has, not do
they affect the quality ofthe Republican
nominees. ' i

There are many of these ridiculous

True Life:

Student body plagued by S

During this
time of year,
as the days be-
come /

becomes cold-
er, it is com-
mon for many

experience So-
rority Associa-

 

tive Disorder

_ J (SAD), a preva-

By Cynthia Lam I lent P?¥°“‘?‘°$'

COLUMN,“ rcal syndrome
characterized

by notably distinct symptoms. Recent
reports from the Student Health Center
have conﬁrmed over 200 individual cas-
es of SAD to dates: .
According to Dr. Anita Rush, Di-
rector of Community Health and Well-
Being, SAD is most common among
ﬁrst-year women students, with approxi-
mately 80% of the female freshman class
becoming inflicted with the disorder by
the end of the semester.‘ ‘

“The earliest cases of SAD typically
emerge during the ﬁrst week back, when
a large proportion of the student body
engages in Rush Week activities. That‘s
when many of the girls catch the disease.
but they don’t realize they have it until
‘days later. For these reasons, SAD is

longer
and the weather

students I to,

non-issues that political commentators
and pundits use to draw the proverbial
“line in the sand.” and the crowning glo-
ry ofthcse little quibblesis the idea that
a presidcnt"s family life must have nor-
malcy in such epic amount that it loses
all practicality.

This issue plagued candidates in past
elections. John McCain’s second mar-
riage was a subject of scrutiny. since his
first marriage was broken apart by mari-
tal indiscretions. ()n the other side ofthe
election. Barack Obama received lots
of tlack because his mother was three
months pregnant before unknowingly
entering a bigamousmarriage.

During this primary. Mitt Romney’s
family connection to polygamist Mor-
monism and Newt Gingrich”s own mari-
tal indiscretions have also been the topic
of heated argument. For what purpose?
Unless we aretalking about Bill Clin-
ton‘s lie to Congress, these should not
get in the way ofhow the Office ofPresi-
dent is executed. But somehow the idea
persists that the number of marriages a
candidate has will affect his or her presi-
dency more than any war. depression or

I

often known as Rush Withdrawal Syn-
drome,” said Rush.

There are a number of factors that
make students especially susceptible to
SAD, several ofwhich were exacerbated
during Rush Week. According to dwee-
bMD.com, these high-risk situations ha-
bitually involve “close, conﬁned spaces,
sudden spontaneous surges of estrogen,
dangerously addictive sorority songs,
and successive illusions of matching

gI1OI'1I1%

natural calamity. ‘
If we look back on the past, marriage

them. In fact, all it is now to most people
is trivia for Jeopardy contestants or awk-

Franklin Delano Roosevelt carried on an aﬂair with

the First Lady s social secretary while in the White
House. JFK had more affairs than Imelda Marcos

had shoes.

has had little to no effect on the state of
the country. After all, Millard Fillmore
lived a happy marital life and still he is
one of the hardest presidents to remem-
ber. Ronald Reagan divorced and remar-
ried, and he brought down the Berlin
Wall. Franklin Delano Roosevelt carried
on an affair with the First Lady’s social
secretary while in the White House. JFK
had more affairs than Imelda Marcos had
shoes. James Buchanan never married
and the union began to dissolve during
his administration. The point is that their
married lives had no bearing on the is-
sues they faced or their ability to combat

D (Sorority Associative Disorder)

go to Dubyunhell  

That’s when it hits,” said Rush. ‘ o

The most prevalent symptom of SAD
is the compulsion to keep on smiling.
“I knew something was wrong with me
when I realized that I couldn’t stop grin-
ning. It was like my face was frozen into

this giant, goofy smile, and I just kept

on laughing no matter what anyone said.
Like my roommate told me that she lost

. my favorite sweater on Tear Night, and

I grinned back even though I wanted to

-I found out that all she could say was, ‘So where are
youjrom? ’ ‘What are you majoring in? ‘and ‘What
classes are you taking?’ And then whenever I said
anything, she acted like it was the most exciting fact

in the world.

outﬁts.”

What distinguishes SAD as such an
infectious virus is the fact that its initial
stages are almost completely invisible
and tend to go undetected for prolonged
periods olﬂtime. “Students go on with
their everyday lives. acting absolutely
normal, with no indication of any sign
of illness or malnourishment. In fact,
they appear to be even happier and pep-
pier than usual - at least until the week
ends and Sunday morning rolls around.

kill her. It was terrible!” said ﬁrst-year
Georgina Turner. ’

Another obvious indicator that‘ a
student may be infected with SAD is
the constant urge to engage in repeti-
tive conversation. “Dude, I was talking
to this girl I’d just met and it was go-
ing pretty well at ﬁrst, until I found out

V that all she could say was, ‘So where are

you from?’ ‘What are you majoring in?’
and ‘What classes are you taking?’ And
then wheneverl said anything, she acted

ward conversations.

So Newt Gingrich’s marital situation
has not been‘ stable, and Mitt Romney’s
father was born on a polygamist planta-
tion in Chihuahua, Mexico. If those are
problems for you, that’s ﬁne. Is it some-
thing newsworthy? Not really. At least
Gingrich did not hold his previous wives
in unhappy marriages, and at least Rom-
ney lives according to American law. As
someone who is religious, I would rather
let the candidates take these issues up
with God-—He can do it so much better
than we can. If you aren’t religious, let
your moral compass guide you. If you

 like it  the most excitingfact in the if I
world; ‘It,!was like talking to a broken ( "
record.., I didn’t know what to do, man,” -I

saidjunior John Tucker. _

Other common symptoms _include:
the inability to complete (or, even touch)’
homework, the tendency to line up in
alphabetical order (even in D-hall), the

voverwhelmingf desire to sit down ‘at all e
times (becauseyour ‘feet stillhurt), the‘

opinions

non-issues

? JP Beall argues there are more matters

don’t have a moral compass, then you
should worrying less about Gingrich and
Romney, and more about your upcoming
dictatorship of a third world country.

I am not advocating that we void the
political realm of moral censure; it’s bad
enough now with what little there is, but
instead of worrying about these non-
issues, think about the personal qualities
of each candidate. Can he accomplish
what needs to be done? Can he do it
well? Is he a decent and honorable hu-
man being of character who follows and
respects the law, or is he a crook? What
are his values and his platform? Can he
represent the US with dignity? These are
the things that are going to matter most
during an administration, and what his-
tory will remember.

Let’s leave the smut for the tabloids
and the judgment to God. Our hard
earned Mock Convention will be so
much for enjoyable that way. To the del-
egates, good luck with your picks, to our
esteemed speakers, welcome, and to our
visitors, enjoy the show!

sensation of butterflies‘ in your stomach. .. 

(which ‘grows increasingly‘ stronger as. ,
the clock approaches? 4:30 pm for 

beknownst reasons), "the automatic, re-_l ; ,

sponse to “BABY!’_’ (even though that’s Ver-
» not your name), and the urge to pose for to
all pictures ﬂaunting your sorority sym-“
’ bol (no photo is complete without itl). *

According to Rush, these symptoms  S‘

are especially prevalent because many —‘
‘ female students are experiencing with-*
drawal from the experience of Rush _

Week. “Deep inside, they’re craving»

the attention and the relishing adrena- 3 ‘
line rush of meeting all these different ,
people. They just can’t get enough,” 

added Rush.

“This is going to sound really weird, . if
l but a few days ago, I purposely put on‘ a

dressland heels, then pulled on a pair of V * if A

sweatpants and tons of layers over it -it ’ _
was just like old times - grid walked all 1
the way over to the sorority houses, just; ‘

so I could wait outside in the cold again. to V "

 

WASHINGTON BREAK GETAWAY
Nags Head Beach House -- 4BR

7 Nights $1280
For more info: rwebrweb@aol.c0m

STUDENT HOUSING
Midland Trail, (2012208), 6 -_

bedrooms, 3 baths, kitchen,
living room
D. rm, huge rec room, sun
porch, gas ﬁreplace, electric
heat, commercial dishwasher,
off-street parking.
(804) 380-0645
-01.-
~ vawildﬂower@verizon.net

W/Name  

 

  

4 ~ THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6,2012

arts&|ife

 

Take some time out for   self-reﬂection

Inspired by Henry David Thoreau, one »W&L senior has an idea to help the campus take a break from everyday stress

By Colleen Moore
STAFF warren

College students seem to exist in a
constant state of stress. Sometimes, we
need to take a step back from our school-
work, athletics or other obligations and
focus on ourselves. Outing Club senior,
Henri Hammond-Paul, has undertaken a
project to address this issue and in the
process bring students closer to nature.

A cabin is his answer: a place for self-
reﬂection, deep thinking and environ-
mental awareness. Located close enough
to be within walking distance of campus,
but far enough to feel surrounded by na-
ture, the cabin will be available to every
community member of W&L, staff and
students alike.

5:00 pm - 6:30 pm

Hammond-Paul said the cabin will
be a “detox in many ways.” It will re-
move people from the busy blursiof ev-
eryday life and offer a space to organize
thoughts or just clear heads.

W&L is able to offer unique opportu-
nities for interaction with its natural sur-
roundings, however many students do
not take advantage of these experiences.
Hammond-Paul wants “to incentivize in-

natural environment and hopes the cabin
can be a place to mend that division.
Inspired by his thesis on environmen-
talism and eco-social theory in the works
of Henry David Thoreau, Hammond-
Paul has a deep passion for the wilder-
ness. -He wants to share this passion,
something that has been so influential
in his personal growth, with the W&L
community to encourage them to grow

teraction with and contemplation of our xindividuallyas well.

place in the natural world by providing a
place that is readily available and easily
used by our community members.”

He said he has found that the mod-
em digital age separates people from the

,‘‘It is really important for people to
be able to escape, find solitude, and have
time to be alone and reflect,” he said.
The cabin will be a place to dojust that.

To self-reflect is to take the “time to

10:00 am - 11:30 am

10:00 am - 1:00 pm

think about who we are as individuals,
what we care about, what the implica-
tions of our actions are, and how we
should act,” said Hammond-Paul. The
next step would be to apply these revela-
tions to social interactions, environmen-
tal issues, humanitarian concerns and the
greater community at large.

Although Hammond-Paul is still in
the process of determining the exact lo-
cation of the cabin, he has been work-
ing with soine architecture students on
the design. With enough help from the
W&L community, ‘the project should
take about a month or even less to coin-
plete. He is excited about the experience

of building ~,“there is great merit in
academic learning, but experiential and
physical learning is something, that in
my opinion, is deeply undervalued.”
However this is not a project about
just one person ~ the whole W&L com-
munity needs to take ownership of the
cabin, as Hammond-Paul will be gradu-
ating in the spring. There is a place for
every discipline to take part in the proj-
ect, whether it’s the physical labor or
an administrative role. Hammond-Paul
encourages anyone to ﬁnd a way to get
involved. Contact him at hamm0nd-
ipaztl/712@,?n2a/'1.wluedu.

update
Just in case y'all
wanted to know,

Mock Convention Session 3

(Speakers Dick Morris, Attorney General
Henry McMaster, Boh Goodlatte, Governor
Georgeﬂllen, and Fred Thompson) *Warner
Center

Mock Convention Parade
( Featuring a live elephant) *Lexington

Republican v. Democrat Debate

(Ann Coulter v. james Carville; moderated lay
POLI TI CO’s Milze allen with special guest
CNBC commentator Kelly Evans) *Warner
Center

7:00 pm - 8:00 pm
Convention Opening Speaker
( Governor M ilze Hachahee) ‘Warner Center

Lip Sync featured
30 participating
t e a m s ,

a n d
raised $8,500 for
Rockbridge Area
Relief Association,
Natural Bridge/
Glasgow Food
P a n t r y , a n d
Campus Kitchen

1:00 pm - 4:30 pm
Mock Convention Session 1
(Speakers Shelly Moore Capito, Governor Boh
McDonnell, ﬂttorney General Ken Caccinelli,
and Eric Cantor) *l/Varner Center

3:00 pm — 6:00 pm
Mock Convention Session 3
( S peaher Governor Haley Barhoar; also features
the Roll Call during which time the 2012
Republican nominee for President will he

announced) *Warner Center

7:00 pm - 10:00 pm
Mock Convention Session 2
(Spealcers Thaddeus McCotter,  C. Watts, jon
Huntsman) *Warner Center

”Pure Eats is
lexington’s newest

slice of heaven.”
-The Washington Post (12/30/11)

   
     

 

l07 N Main Street
462-6000

 
     

Premium local burgers, fresh doughnuts,
fries, Homestead Creamery milk shakes,
daily soups and stews...on|y the good stuff.

 
    
  

facebookcom/PureEatsYum

for menu updates and news

     
 

only mm: but!

   

Interested in government service ?

‘ll

 
 

5.2

Wednesday, February 8

   

Resume Review
by CIA Representative‘
9:00 - 4-:00
Career Services Office
(call for appointment)

     

 
 
 

  
  
 

CIA Information Session
5:00 - 6:00 p.m.
Huntley 323

 
 
    
  

§
$1
§  

  
 

Go Government Webinar:
,. nding Your Dream Internship
5:00 - 6:00“p.m.

Commons 345

1.'Z‘ |“-”  in 7??! - C.

 
 
    
  

 

mu.-n 371.1

  

All programs open to all students.
Contact Career Services for additional information

  
 

i
s
$9

  

CareerServices

§
§
i

7253i‘: 1;‘ 53-... 

,0

4»

 

 

O

 

And YI@ can    
weekly magic.

ing-+am PH’ needs dedica+ed
dependable writers to cover  

The
and
home games.even+son campus and
hard-hiffing news.

 

 

Or, you can come hang om‘
  wi-Ha +hePhi staff Sunday
ni9h1‘s.  

 

  Because, admit H, We Phi is

the one +hin9s You look forward 
+0 on Mondays.

 

 

6 - THE RING-TUM PHI-

 

 

   

 

 

M O N D A Y, FEBRUARY 6, 2012
..
1
S ' T S ?
ondeck   p  A  -  .
Ahfter stron performances [9 Bolton and Ingram; .
T W T F S S t e Genera S overcome a I -poznt deﬁczt. tn 
MON UES ED HURS Rl AT UN By Leigh Dannhouser A H e T.
Bridge-@5V,V9et SPORTS EDITOR 1 ‘
Riding  lnBvri'taart_ Washington and Lee’s Women’s basketball team won
ationa] ional a close game with Bridgewater on Saturday as the second
Men,S @ game of a basketball double header in the Warner Center.
BUCkn_el| The Generals defeated the Eagles 62-58 in the Old Do-
Track Class" minion Athletic Conference contest to rise to 9-1 1 overall
Women's @ Navy and 7-8 in the ODAC. After the loss the Eagles record is
Track 4pm 13-7 overall and 9-6 in the ODAC.
The Eagles had a good lead entering the second half.
Men's @ CNU They led 36-23 after twenty minutes of play. .
Tennis 2pm In the second half, the Generals came out and pulled
the game close, taking the lead with 9:58 left in the game.
t W&L was able to put a six point gap between them and
W°me"'5 Rjmc Gui]/f'ord Bridgewater, which lasted until about the ﬁve minute
Basketball 7pm 7pm mark. The Generals were leading 55-51 when the Eagles
came back to tie the score at 55 apiece with just 2:09 re- J
M I @ B ,d maining in the game.
en 5 Guilford Fw'a'tegre' Less than a minute later, the Eagles took a one point
3a5ketba“ _ 7pm 2pm lead to surge ahead 58-57, but they would not score again.
W&L was led by the performances of Becca Bolton
5w- mg Sunday, Men @V-Tech 1.0am,_4am and Meg Ingram. Bolton tied the game high of 19 points
lmm W°"‘e” @ ODAC ‘hamp'°"5h‘p loam’ 59"‘ while completing a double-double with ten rebounds. In- .
' gram scored 18 points while going a perfect 4-4 from the
line.
Holly Morgan led Bridgewater. Morgan, like Bolton,
I scored 19 points and completed a double-double. She had
I“ e  m  a game—high 11 rebounds.
. The Generals return to the court Tuesday when they
5 3 travel to Randolph-Macon for a 7:00 pm contest. PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTS-COM
The number of Points given to the baseball team in the annual    I S i   Rh    ;
survey of Old Dominion Athletic Conference coaches. The Gen— ’ ...p
Washzngton and Lee men S basketball shoots just 22 percent from the ﬂoor zn loss 0

erals were picked fourth in the pre—season poll.

'7

The number of top 5 ﬁnishes among Division III athletes for the

women's track and ﬁeld team on Saturday. They took part in the

Christopher Newport Vince Brown. Invitational.

1,250,000,000

The number of chicken wings eaten on Super Bowl Sunday. e

That is equal to four chicken wings for every person in the

By Zackary Richards
STA F F W RITE R

With a barrage of threes setting the tone in
the second half, Randolph College expanded
a six point half-time lead to a 22 point victory
over Washington and Lee on Wednesday night
in an ODAC matchiip at the Warner Center.

The Randolph Wildcats shot an astounding
65 percent from the ﬁeld in the second half, in-
cluding 69 percent from behind the arc. Shoot-
ing percentages were the story of the game, as
the Generals shot only 22 percent from the
ﬂoon

After a ﬁrst half that only produced 36 to-
tal points, a 21 to 15 lead for Randolph, the
Wildcats came out on a 10 to 2 run to open the
second half.

The Generals could not keep up with the
excellent shooting displayed by Randolph,
as the six point deﬁcit at half was the closest
W&L ever got in the second half.

Nine successful three pointers keyed the
Wildcats to victory in the second half, as each
team took 13 attempts from long range in
the ﬁnal 20 minutes. The difference was ﬁve
shots, as the Generals only made four of their
thirteen attempts, compared to Randolph’s

nine.

Mike Ehilegbu and Chris Battaglia led the
way for Randolph in the second half, scoring
nine and eleven points respectively, coming off
the bench. Ehilegbu made three of ﬁve three-
point attempts in the half and scored eleven
points overall. Battaglia scored all eleven of
his points in the second half.

The ﬁrst half of the game was deﬁned by
subpar shooting, turnovers, and generally
sloppy play. Both teams did tremendous jobs
grabbing defensive rebounds, 12 for W&L and
14 for Randolph, but that was due to the in-
ability to put the ball in the hoop.

The Generals only made ﬁve baskets and
three from the line in the ﬁrst half, but they
beneﬁted from poor shooting from the Wild-
cats to keep the game close.

Despite the ﬁrst half struggles, Randolph
found their offense in the next half, as they
made shot after shot all over the court while
the Generals could not break out of their of-
fensive funk. _

Randolph was led by four players with
eleven points, starters Zach Desgain and

Colton Hunt and the aforementioned Ehilegbu
and Battaglia from the bench.

Starter Dylan Shiﬁett’s 11 rebounds were
the game high and teammate Hunt put up a
solid effort with eight rebounds and four as-
sists, which was also the game high.

On the Generals’ side, JD Ey and Larry
Whitaker were the night’s best players. Ey put
up nine points and nine rebounds along with
ﬁve blocks in a starting effort. Whitaker had
eight boards and seven points.

Starter Jeremy Adkins scored eight points,
including making two of three three-point at-
tempts. ’

W&L managed just two points off the
bench. They came from Devin Dillard in the
ﬁnal minute ofthe game.

The loss puts the Generals at an overall re-
cord of, 11 and 9, 4 and 7 in the ODAC. They
will return to action at home on Saturday
against 21st ranked Randolph-Macon.

After the win the Wildcats tied W&L in the
ODAC with a 4 and 7 record, while sitting at
9 and 11 overall.

United States.  i I I  Q
Aﬁer Wednesdays loss, the boys rallied to crush nation is #21 team, Randolph-Macon
By Leigh Dannhouser ' 1
42 SPORTS EDITOR
The Generals bounced back from a tough Jackets, who made just 16. The top scorer for the Yellow Jackets was
f , d loss earlier in the week to defeat Randolph- One of the biggest differences in the game, Marcus Badger. Badger scored 14 points
The total number 0 pomts Score by Tony Park" Macon, ranked 21 in the nation, in the Warner besides the shooting percentage, was re- while going a perfect six for six from the free
_ _ , Center on Saturday. bounds. The Generals outrebounded the Yel- throw line.‘
er ofthe San Antomo Spurs In a 10796 W0 In front of a home crowd of nearly 300 low Jackets 43 to 25. The Generals grabbed The loss wasjust the third loss in Old Do-
_ people, the Generals held Randolph-Macon to nearly double the amount of defensive re- minion Athletic Conference for Randolph- .
tory Over the Oklahoma Qty Thunder on Saturday 29.6 shooting percentage to win 78-56. bounds as the Yellow Jackets. Macon. They fell to a record of 17-4, and 10-3
In the ﬁrst half, Randolph-Macon was held Leading the Generals were Javon McDon- in the ODAC.
to just 19.2 percent shooting. At the half the aid and J.D. Ey. McDonald scored 16 points, With the win the Generals rise to 12-9, and
Generals led 37-21. including going seven out ofnine from the free 5-7 in the ODAC.
The Generals shot 50.9 percent from the throw line. Ey led the Generals in rebounding W&L returns to the court Wednesday as
ﬂoor. Each team took close to 55 attempts, but with a game high 17. No other player on the they travel to Guilford for a 7:00pm contest.
soa p  the Generals made 27 compared to the Yellow ﬂoor grabbed more than seven rebounds.
"People really count on me to be consistent
each week, to play well. Knowing that my 5 ‘
performance, the fact that I touch the‘ ball
every play, I have adirect impact on the
game, the way I play”
--Aaron Rodarsalbrwlnnlnctho NFL Moutvaluablo
Player award, mm sI.oom
“This wasn't something I planned on doing.
Football is something I did so I didn't end 0

up jailed or dead.”

——cu:rusMarunaruarbauuuoouadmuoul§NFLHanor

FamoonS¢umdqy.mmsI.com

PHOTO COURTESY OF GENERALSSPORTS.COM

. .

 

