TUESDAY
Edition

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Che King-tun Phi

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXII

W&L’s IFC Must Regain
The Respect Of Faculty
And The Student Body

 

Frat Presidents Not Attending Meetings,
Council Hindered By Party Division,
Are Among IFC’s Many Problems

(Editor’s note: EMPHASIS, a regular feature of the
Tuesday Edition, today features what we feel is a very pen-
etrating article on Washington and Lee’s IFC. The article,
written by Associate Editor Ken Lane, is not intended to be
an expose of the IFC, and we hope that it won’t be met by
the student body with that attitude.

It is our feeling that the IFC could be a useful organiza-
tion on the Washington and Lee Campus. We are sorry
to say, however, that the IFC is definitely not fullfilling
its basic obligations to the Student Body and to the frater-
nities.

The IFC, quite frankly, reeks with a general apathetic ap-
pearance. This attitude is supplied not only by the invidivual
members of the IFC, but it is also supplied by the fraternities
themselves. As Mr. Lane points out, the fraternity presi-
dents are required by the IFC Constitution to attend all the
IFC meetings. Do the presidents attend? In some cases the
presidents do attend the meetings but in many others they do
not.

We do not blame the IFC’s problems on its
officers. In our opinion, IFC President Bob Doenges
has done much to elevate this organization this year,
and we, for one, commend him for his excellent ef-
forts.

Our sole purpose in printing this article is to show the
Student Body what the problems that face the IFC actually
are. We can only hope that these problems can, and will
be overcome. This article is continued on Page 2 of today’s
paper, and appears in our regular editorial position.)

Ww Ww

By KEN LANE
Associate Editor

When a freshman enters Washington and Lee University one of the
first organizations introduced to him is the Interfraternity Council.

During the first week of college, this Council is seen playing the
prominent role in a very vital significant function—that of operating
Rush Week. Very early in the mind of the student, the
IFC thus comes to occupy a position of high prestige.

However, after the bidding is done and the pledg-
ing is made, the Council undergoes an eclipse and for
some reason submerges into a sort of obscurity amid
other campus activities.

The student, thereafter, sees only slight glimmer-
ings of the organization in an occasional fund drive
or some other perfunctory task. Annually, there is
a revival at mid-year in which a certain sub-commit-
tee of the Council proposes a number of rules for what
is known as Help Week, and these are subsequently
ee voted down. Such has been the rather unenlightened

° history of the IFC in past years.

At one time, the powers of this organization were much more im-
posing, and it has been only recently that its structure has undergone
a great deal of dismantling.

 

The critical blow occurred late in the last decade when mismanage-
ment of the IFC over the social matters of the fraternities was so
blatant that the faculty was forced to deprive the Council of its powers
in that particular domain, Taking over the responsibility where the IFC
left off, the faculty has since instituted the faculty committee on fra-
ternities and a University Proctor.

The Tuesday Staff Speaks .. .

 

EMPHASIS

The IFC was left priority over its other interests, particularly in the
areas of Rush Week, the pledge-training period, and Help Week.
Since the faculty’s intervention in the social management, however,

the Council has been haunted by a sense of being overshadowed by
the Administration.

 

The pressure, whether actual or not, has constantly been the
chief motivating power behind the apparently dacadaisical organization.

This year, principally under the initiative of president Bob Doenges,
the IFC has asserted itself somewhat more outspokenly than in the past.

Having gotten off to a good start with an unusually successful Rush
Week, the council began to show some interest for the first time in the
area of fraternity pledge-training. It has started to view this phase
of fraternity life with a more or less objective approach, and launched
upon what it considers a more progressive and constructive program.

One valid step forward has been the speech given by Mr. Richard
Fletcher, Secretary of the Sigma Nu National Fraternity, before an as-
sembly of the freshmen pledges and their pledge-trainers. The talk em-
phasized the proper relationship which students should develop toward
their university and fraternity life. Above all, Mr. Fletcher spoke out
against the old-fashioned “Clyde Beatty” method of pledge-training.

A second significant measure was the enactment of several regula-
tions in regard to pledge rallies. Through enforcing such restrictions,
the IFC is hoping eventually to steer the pledge program away from the
idea of “beating” a pledge into the fraternity and more toward planning
constructive activities, (These regulations limited the hours in which
rallies could be held.)

(Continued on page 2)

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 16, 1962

Number 27

nternational Relations Week

 
  

SEN. ALBERT GORE
Tennessee Senator

Here in February

       

IFC Passes

By C. C. FLIPPEN
Associate Editor

New rules concerning
W&L’s Help Week activities
were passed by an 11-7 vote
of the IFC at a meeting last
night.

Since the proposals failed by one
vote to get the necessary two-
thirds, they will not become a per-
manent part of the constitution but
will apply only to this year’s Help
Week.

The following rules will be en-
forced this year:

1. A week of concentrated pledge
activities will continue to exist.

2. While carrying out these ac-
tivities that bind a freshman to his
house, no individual should be
forced to perform deeds that vio-
late his basic sense of human dig-
nity and decency.

3. A “hazard” is clearly defined
as any clear and present danger of
harm to the physical or emotional
process.

4, The highest purpose of Help
Week can be achieved through
constructive activities for the
pledges.

5. Each house must submit a
plan of its proposed pre-initiation
activities to the Help Week Com-
mittee at 9:00 p.m. of the Sunday
night prior to the beginning of
Help Week. All House Presidents
and Pledge Trainers are required
to attend (this year it will be
February 3, at 9 p.m.).

6. A revolving trophy will be
awarded by the Help Week Com-
mittee to the pledge class achiev-
ing the most constructive service
for their fraternity, community,
and University.

Any alleged violation of these
rules by an upperclassman or a
freshman will be submitted to the
judicial committee of the IFC. The
committee will investigate the
charges and determine appropriate
action.

Bob Doenges, president of the
IFC, said that he, and perhaps other
members of the IFC, will visit each
house during Help Week to see
that it is abiding by the new regu-
lations.

The new rules were the result of
proposals formulated by a committee
which met before Christmas to “in-
vestigate ways to stop Hell Week
abuses and to devise a plan of en-
forcement.” In considering the var-
ious proposals, the group attempted

to see how other schools had used | —

them in meeting the problem.

In submitting the plan last week, | —
the committee said it based its sug-| |.
gestions on, “a new philosophy to-

 

Notice

Joseph Spivel was recently elected | |.
editor of the Washington and Lee|*
Law Review. Ray Robrecht, John | ‘|
Petzold, and Andy McThenia were |:

elected assistant editors.

Sodiahateeett

By STEVE GUILD
Executive News Editor

Features Senator Albert Gore

§ Tennessee Democrat To Discuss Foreign Affairs

Senator Albert Gore, Democrat from Tennessee, will be the principal speaker at the
Eighth Annual International Relations Week to be held on the Washington and Lee cam-

pus February 13, 14, 15.

Senator Gore will speak in Lee Chapel on Tuesday evening, February 13 at 7:30, the
opening session of the three-day series of talks on important aspects of international relations.

The entire week is under the sponsorship of the International Relations Club, Lance
Tarrance, president and John M. Gunn faculty advisor.

International Relations Week was first begun in 1953-54 under the direction of Dr. Har-
ey Wheeler, professor of political science, now on leave to the Center for the Study of Dem-
ocratic Institutions. The week is intended to stimulate interest in international affairs among
the student body through the presentation of excellent speakers in the field.

In the past years the week has featured such figures as Arnold J. Toynbee; Norman
Thomas; Paul Hoffman, Director of the United Nation’s Special Fund; and Arthur Larson,
Director of the World Rule of Law Center at Duke University.

Mr. Gore’s appearance on the campus will mark the first time, however, that a member of

Hell Wee

wards training and, in particular,
Help Week.

“Tt is a constructive attempt to

bring about a more responsible and

mature attitude in this phase of
fraternity life.”

Doenges also said that a meeting
of the council will be held next
semester in an effort to have these
regulations made a permanent part
of the constitution.

In other IFC action last night the
Social Chairman, Bob Hart, an-
nounced that he will study the re-
lationship between the Dance Board
and the fraternity social functions.

A committee, which is composed
of chairman Bob Hart, SAE; Dave
Swan, Phi Delt; and Dick Herman,
PEP, is part of an attempt to in-
crease attendance at University
Dances and other Dance Board
functions.

In commenting on the purpose of
the committee, Hart said the IFC

ee

Sts

 

   

ie

Proposals

would like to work with the Dance
Board officers in an effort to elimi-
nate this situation and hopes to pass
new rules that would bring about
a better relationship between the two
bodies.

The need for a better relationship
arises from the fact that in the last
few years there has been an in-
creasing number of fraternity men
who are not attending the dance
concerts and other university func-
tions, Hart said.

“Our aim,” he added, “would be
to try to present some proposals to
the IFC that would eliminate con-
flicts between fraternity social func-
tions and those of the Dance Board.”

He pointed out that this would
not mean fraternity functions would
be cut out altogether, but would be
an attempt to have a greater per-
centage of University men partici-
pating in the events that take place
on campus.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

© and-run accident.

Two Phi Gam juniors were in-
volved in a hit-an-run accident
north of Lexington on Route 11 late
Friday night.

Thomas P. Rideout, the driver,
and G. Andy Nea, Jr., owner of
the car, were not seriously injured,
but Nea suffered a _ dislocated
shoulder.

According to Nea, their car ran
into the left rear tires of a flat-bed
trailer truck which had just pulled
out of a restaurant near the in-
tersection of Route 11 and Route
340.

The truck cid not stop after the
collision, he said.

Nea added that the truck did not
have its lights on when it pulled
out into the highway, and Rideout
could not see it in time to stop.

Swerving to miss hitting the
truck directly, the small Volkswag-

Andy Nea and Tim Rideout, two Phi Gam juniors
_ were slightly injured when their car was involved in a hit-

 

Smash Injures 2 Phi Gams

on convertible slammed into the ©
truck’s rear tires at an estimated }
speed of 55 miles per hour.

The car, which Nea described as
being a “total loss,” is covered by
insurance,

Nea said that he believes the |
truck to have been ren in color, }
and added that he felt sure there |
was paint from his car on the rear |
of the truck.

As of this morning, State and lo-
cal police were still looking for the
truck and its driver—who both
seem to have vanished into thin
alr.

Rideout received minor lacera-
tions as a result of the collision.

Nea who is managing editor of
the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi, also
received several cuts. He reported |
that he was wearing a seat belt
at the time of the crash.

 

aa* the United States Senate has spoken

for International Relations Week.

Native of Tennessee

Senator Gore is a native Tennes-
seean, having been born in Gran-
ville, Tennessee in 1907. He gradu-
ated from State Teachers’ College
at Murfreesboro, Tennessee with a
B.S. degree. He received his LL.B.
in 1936 from the night law school
of the Nashville Y.M.C.A. He has
also attended Cumberland Univer-
sity and the University of Tennessee.
After holding several minor posi-
tions in the State, be became com-
missioner of labor for the State dur-
ing 1937-38. He was elected to the
House of Representatives of the 76th
Congress in 1938.

On Important Committees

Senator Gore remained in the
House, where he served on many
important committees, until 1952
when he was elected to the United
States Senate. As the junior senator
from Tennessee, Mr. Gore has
gained membership on several im-
portant committees, among them the
Senate Finance Committee, the
Senate Foreign Relations Commit-
tee, and the Joint Committee on

.| Atomic Energy.

Africa Committee
He is currently the chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations sub-
committee on Africa. The committee
has just recently issued a report
criticizing the waste of American

‘| foreign aid to some African nations.

Second Speaker

The second speaker of the week
has not of yet confirmed his appear-
ance and will be announced at a
later date. He will speak, however,
on either Wednesday or Thursday
night.

Theme Not Decided Upon

The theme of the week has not
been decided upon nor have the
the subjects of the two speakers’
talks; but as in past year, they will
center around some current prob-
lem of the United States or the
Western nations.

 

Library Opens

New Room

A new 60-seat upperclass reading
room opened Monday morning in

:| Washington and Lee’s McCormick

Library increasing the library seat-
ing space by one-fourth its present
capacity.

Total library seating capacity has
been brought to 300, according to
Henry C. Coleman, Jr., university li-
brarian. Tables and chairs are now
located in the library’s two first
floor reading rooms, in small study
rooms in the rear of the stacks,
and the browsing room.

In addition to custom-built fur-
niture designed by a Washington
and Lee alumnus—Donald R. Steen-
burgh of Richmond—the new read-
ing room on the library’s second
floor will house some rare books
and papers from the university’s
archives. Locked cages have been
installed for this material.

The room was added to the library

 

(Continued on page four)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Supaks Are Eligible Under Our Theory

w

w

Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Ww

Opponents Claim Washington & bun Has Unfair Advantage, ‘But It Doesn’t

Barrett added that ‘“‘This flashy pair of twins has had
much to do with what success W&L managed to garner
during the basketball campaign to date.”

It might be noted that the Supaks are certainly not the

Center Of Controversy

Washington and Lee’s athletic program was “exposed”
Monday morning.

Our basketball team, which ha sstruggled to a 3-5 record,
is using a pair of ineligible players, according to Jim Barret’s
“Sports Front”’ column in Monday’s Lynchburg News.

Barrett devoted his whole column to Washington and
Lee’s lack of the “spiritual side of law abiding.” He was
quick to point out that W&L is not breaking any written rule,
but he lowered the boom under the old cloak of the “moral
rule.”

The eligibility controversy started because W&L is play-
ing Tom and Jon Supak, who transferred here from William
and Mary last fall (or as Barrett preferred to put it who made

“sudden appearance at Lexington.”’)

W&L athletic director E. P. Twombly today explained
our policy concerning transfers very clearly:

“We feel that if a boy is admitted to Washington and
Lee and wants to participate in sports, he is free to do so as
long as he is eligible to play under the five consecutive years
of eligibility after his initial enrollment rule.

The eligibility rule which is in force in most conferences
states that transfers have to sit out one year after changing
schools. This rule is intended to prevent ‘tramp’ athletes.
We don’t have any ‘tramp’ athletes at W&L. We are the
least likely school in the country to have ‘tramp’ athletes.
(Tramp athletes are athletes who are convinced by one
school to transfer to it from another institution in order to

participate in that school’s athletic contests. The eligibility ,

rules are aimed at keeping schools from doing this by taking
a year of eligibility away from the player transfers.)”’

Since Washington and Lee is not presently in an ath-
letic conference, it isn’t forced to obey the rules of any con-
ference, technically or morally.

In fact, it morally obeys the rule anyway. W&L didn’t go
to the Supaks. They came to it.

 

 

IFC History Review

(Continued from page one)

The third measure that indicates progress is the introduction of the
new Help Week proposals, though we should wait to see if it bears any
fruit before patting the IFC on the back. For it is evident that the pro-
posals are vague on certain points and they passed through the houses
labelled as an “appeasement” policy for the increasingly indignant fac-
ulty.

On the other hand, if the constructive aspects are taken seriously,
the proposals can truly be considered effective.

The unfortunate dilemma of the IFC at present is the fact that it does
have the machinery to accomplish a great deal more, but it cannot get
the sanction of the individual fraternities. The source of the problem, as
it generally is with any organization on the decline, is a deep-seated in-
difference.

One evidence of this indifference is exhibited in the attitude of the
individual members.

According to the IFC Constitution, membership is supposed to con-
sist of the fraternity presidents and one junior representative from each
house. This stipulation is being widely disregarded, however.

Many representatives are not juniors, but politically ambitious sopho-
mores,

The fraternity presidents are ceasing to find it worth their while to
attend the meetings, and in some cases they have neglected to show up
all year.

Much is indicated also by the party divisions within the council. It
is an apparent tendency for members to stick blindly to the interest of
their own party. Consequently when elections are made for the four
big offices of the Council, the successful candidates are consistently mem-
bers of the University Party, which holds the majority of votes.

When the ballots are cast, the vote is inevitably 10 to 8, representing
the number of houses of each respective party. Seemingly, the IFC has
become a convenient tool of the University Party to boost its candidates
to higher political echelons.

Further hindering the effectiveness of the organization is the com-
mon practice of referring issues back to the individual houses. Reluctant
to take the responsibility in its own hands, the IFC has resorted to a
rather inefficient system.

Seemingly the IFC fails to realize that issues cannot be adequately
presented in the less formal atmosphere of chapter meetings and con-
sequently the measures are subject to the caprices of the individual
houses. Perhaps in this sense, the IFC has grown too democratic.

A Field where the IFC particularly lacks interest is that of pledge-
training. Though it has plenty of potential with which to play a truly
constructive role during this four-month period, the Council has failed
to act. With the possible exception of the Homecomings Decorations Con-
test, it has done little except to rule on what the fraternities can’t do.

The IFC has thereby become merely a negative force, failing to use
its influence to steer pledging into constructive channels though it has
the power. The IFC, for example, would be an effective medium through
which fraternities could apply pledge projects to something organized and
meaningful like community service.

The IFC can serve vital functions in other ways. For example, listed
in the freshman handbook as an active organization on campus is a group
called the Freshman Advisory Council, supposedly consisting of the pres-
idents of the pledge classes and elected representatives of the non-fra-
ternity men.

“Its ultimate aim,” the handbook states, “is the unification of the en-
tire freshman class by working through the individual fraternity and
non-fraternity representatives.”

It would undoubtedly be a noble undertaking for the IFC to sponsor
such an organization and make it an actual entity on campus—if it could.

Perhaps, we don’t know however, the solution to the organization of
the IFC is that it needs to be built on a similar structure as the EC,
which is a limited group of select individuals theoretically not subject to
political whims.

Whatever the case may be, the Council is faced with the impending
challenge to regain the respect of the faculty and student body as a vital
and responsible organization.

 

We&lL’s success.

said that they have been the only contributing factor to

It is also a strange coincidence that the subject of eligi-

Over it.

 

W&L backcourt duo Tom (1) and Jon Supak.

only good players on the W&L squad. And although they
have helped the team to its three victories, it can hardly be

The Russian economy has been described
succinctly as “totalitarianism harnessed to the
task of rapid economic growth.” Rapid indus-
trialization has been the primary end of the
Soviet planners ever since the first Five Year
Plan was launched on October 1, 1929. More-
over, a set of institutions has been created to
achieve this objective. While the West may
strongly disapprove of the means employed,
it must be admitted that the Soviet Union has
advanced rapidly.

In 1928 the Soviet economy represented a
very backward economic system. This situation
has markedly changed. As the result of over
three decades of forced industrialization, the
Soviet Union stands second only to the United
States in terms of industrial output. In recent
years, the gross national product of Russia has
been growing at slightly over twice the United
States’ rate (7 per cent versus 3 per cent an-
nually). Clearly we must recognize this growth
as a remarkable achievement. It also represents
a challenge and a threat.

Soviet Growth: The Pattern

The growth of the Soviet economy has not
been balanced. To obtain needed capital for
invesment, the planners have been forced to
maintain a low rate of output of consumer
goods. To illustrate: the share of consumption
in the Soviet economy is less than 50 per cent
of the total output (GNP), whereas the share of
consumption in the American economy is
slightly over 65 per cent. Per Capita supplies of
food, clothing, and housing space are extremely
low. The service industries are virtually un-
known.

Soviet agricultural policy has not been
a notable success, with the result that
this sector of the economy is the most in-
efficient. In part this has been due to the
collective farm system which has offered,
to date, an insurmountable obstacle to
improvements in efficiency. In part the
low agricultural output can be attributed
to poor planning. Stalin, who showed lit-
tle interest in this sector of the economy,
chose to use the available capital for in-
vestments in other areas. There was little
use of fertilizer and chemical agents and
a low level of mechanization. The failure
of the Soviet agricultural policy, however,
is not inevitable, as Krushchev set out to
prove in 1953.

It is in the industrial sector that the rate of
economic grpwth has been so pronounced.
Russia has been devoting a significantly greater
share of its productive resources to investment
(25 versus 20 per cent) than has the United
States. In turn, this investment has been di-
rected mainly toward heavy industry. Recent
estimates indicate that Soviet industrial out-
put is 45 per cent of ours. If Russia can con-
tinue her present 7 per cent rate of growth and
if the United States continues to grow at 3
per cent, then Russian industrial output will
match ours within twenty-five years.

Soviet Growth: The Problems

 

In terms of productivity the Russian econ-

bility only came up after Tom Supak played his best game of
the year, scoring 30 points as W&L took a 78-74 overtime
victory from LYNCHBURG COLLEGE.

Barrett suggested that the Mason-Dixon Conference,
which supplies a large number of W&L’s opponents, should
pressure wayward W&L into conforming with the confer-
ence’s transfer rule. This is absurd. Why should W&L obey
a Mason-Dixon Conference rule when it isn’t even a mem-
ber of that conference? The answer is, it should not.

Barrett said that the use of the Supaks gives Washing-
ton and Lee an unfair advantage over its opponents. But he
failed to mention the advantages W&L’s opponents have

Most of W&L’s opponents give either athletic scholar-
ships or “encouragement” scholarships for athletics. W&L
gives neither athletic scholarships nor
scholarships for athletics. Doesn’t this fact alone give a much
larger advantage to Washington and Lee’s opponents than
the Supaks give to Washington and Lee?

We also wonder: just how many of the players on the

“encouragement”

Mason-Dixon Conference teams could be admitted to Wash-

ington and Lee in the first place?

Washington and Lee is trying to participate in athletics

omy lags even farther behind the United States.
Problems in planning, organization, incentives
and motivations have all been responsible for
waste and inefficiency. While some industries
compare favorably with those of the United
States, evidence suggests both imbalance and
unevenness in Soviet planning.

This does not imply, however, that the
Soviet economy is so wasteful that it cannot
compete economically with the capitalistic
economies. There is every reason to believe
that Russian planning is becoming more ra-
tional and efficient. When the philosophy of
Karl Marx has interfered with the Plan,
it has been brushed aside. Soviet stores now
sell on credit. To aid in allocating investment
funds, interest on capital has been allowed. And
Soviet producers usually are expected to show
a profit on their operations. The famous labor
theory of value seems to be something of a

  
   
  

 

Dr. Phillips

  
   

on
textbook curiosity. There has even been a
move, since the death of Stalin, toward the
decentralization of decision-making authority
within the Russian economy, coupled with an
increase in managerial freedom.

Soviet Growth: The Future

It is always difficult, and dangerous, to pre-
dict the future. Futhermore, the long-term
prospects for economic growth in the Soviet
Union are conflicting. Assuming no drastic
changes in the Soviet military effort, the out-
look for the next few years is a continuation
of a high average annual rate of growth of
perhaps 6 to 7 per cent. This prediction is
based upon four factors.

(1) As the stated objective of the Soviet
planners is industrialization, it seems unlikely
that a substantial decline in the rate of invest-
ment will be tolerated. Khrushchev has prom-
ised to improve the welfare of the Soviet con-
sumer, but this will be a gradual development.

(2) Increased emphasis upon improve-
ments in technology and automation can
be expected, leading to productivity ad-
vances. The Soviet Union has forcefully
demonstrated that she has the scientific
and technical skills to accompany this
goal, This emphasis is required because

This is the second in a series of ten articles by mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee faculty dealing with
Communism and its various aspects.

Dr. Phillips’ article, The Russian Economy, clari- |
fies Soviet economic growth since 1929 under the head-
ings of Patterns, Problems, the Future, and Implications.
This article should give you some idea of the enormous
Soviet threat we must meet in the coming years.

 

for recreation and enjoyment. Its athletic program is as
(Continued on page four)

Advances 7 Per Cent Annually
Backward Soviet Economy Of 1928
Now Threatens All The Free World

it appears unlikely that the nonagricul-
tural labor forces will increase as rapidly
during the next ten years as it has in the
last ten, Consequently, a significant por-
tion of any increase in output will have to
come from the growth of productivity.

(3) Khrushchev is placing greater emphasis
upon increasing agricultural output. With bet-
ter planning and more capital, Soviet agricul-
tural output should rise in the next few years.
But this will require more capital, thereby
leaving less for the producers’ goods indus-
tries. As a result, the problem of finding
adequate investment funds will be intensified.

(4) The probability of greater efficiency in
the planning and administration of the Soviet
economy must be taken into account. Soviet
planners have shown no aversion to change
when greater growth can be achieved.

  
 
   
   
   
   
    

  

Soviet Growth: The Implications

The prediction of a high rate of growth
for the Soviet Union in the next few years
means that the Soviet national product will
continue to increase relative to that of the
United States. The implications of this predic-
tion have been well stated by Bornstein:

“Such an increase in the size of the Soviet
economy compared with that of the United
States need not in itself be considered alarm-
ing. More important is the significance of a
rapid rate of economic growth for the world
position of the U.S.S.R. A larger, and rapidly
growing, national product will provide the
U.S.S.R. a greater economic base for a strong
military posture, for further scientific and tech-
nical progress, for greater trade and foreign
aid, and for an improvement in the living
conditions of the Soviet population. Futher-
more, an uninterrupted high rate of growth will
be prominently cited in Soviet efforts to con-
vince underprivileged countries that they
should emulate the Soviet ‘model’ in their de-
velopment programs. In all these ways, a high
rate of growth will strengthen the economic,
military, and political position of the U.S.S.R.
on the world scene. The consequences of this
enhanced Soviet position will be of great im-
portance to the United States and the rest of
the free world.”
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

SPORTS
FRONT

By JIM BARRETT

Unfair Advantage Charged
Against WGL Athletics

(Editor’s Note: The following article is a reprint of Jim
Barrett’s sports column which appeared in the Monday, Jan-
uary 15, 1962, issue of the Lynchburg News.)

Washington and Lee University’s basketball team is off
to what might be considered a slow start with a 3-5 season rec-
ord, but it would probably be even less impressive if the Gener-
als used the same rules of eligibility that most of their oppon-
ents are forced to obey. They don’t.

Since W&L is an athletic indepe-*
pendent it is legally free to set up
its own rules concerning who may
play on its teams. Athletic officials in
Lexington have taken this freedom
to heart and in doing so have made
their eligibility restrictions much
looser than any of the conference-
tied opponents they meet.

Twins Spark Generals

The most obvious use of Wash-
ington and Lee’s_§self-determination
can be found on the General basket-
ball in a pair of twins, Tom and Jon
Supak. This flashy pair of twins has
had much to do with what success
W&L has managed to garner during
the basketball campaign to date.

But the rub comes in (and the
News has been assured by a very
reliable source that it has been
mentioned on several occasions by
coaches playing W&L) with the
twins’ sudden appearance at Lex-
ington.

Both of these lads were pace set-
ters last season on the William and
Mary freshman team. If these fellows
had transferred to a conference re-
lated school and most independent
institutions they would have been
forced to sit out a year before they
could play basketball for their new
alma mater.

Not so at W&L, With its power to
establish its own standards, W&L
has declared these players eligible.
Now, if by some miracle the Gener-
als should enter some National Col-
legiate Athletic Association sponsor-
ed event, they would have to make
the trip without the Supak twins.
The NCAA would consider the 6-1,
180-pound sophomore backcourt duo
ineligible.

NCAA official Art Bergstrom as-
sured this columnist last week that
a decisive majority of independent
colleges across the nation do ob-
serve transfer rule. Bergstrom’s
statement would indicate that the
Generals are among collegiate
basketball’s tiny flock of black
sheep.

 

 

E. P. “Cy” Twombly, W&L ath-
letic Director, took a different out-
look in a telephone conversation
early last week. Twombly feels that
the academic requirements for W&L
are rigid enough to serve as the
entire standard for athletic compe-
tition.

No one would deny that Washing-
ton and Lee has set up high ac-
ademic standards for intercollegiate
competition, BUT is it fair for them
to use this as the only rule for
participation when all but one team
on its schedule must observe this
transfer doctrine set up by their
conferences? Norfolk William and
Mary is the lone team on the Gen-
eral slate that is also an indepen-
dent.

Unfair Advantage Charged

As some of W&L’s foes have not-
ed, this lack of standardized rules
at the Lexington college to conform
to most nationally recognized poli-
cies has given the Generals an un-
fair advantage over their opponents.

Perhaps W&L’s membership in
the newborn College Conference
with Sewanee, Southwestern at
Memphis and Centre will make a
difference. But then again, this
new loop seems bent on developing
a very loose relationship that
might well allow each school to
determine its own way.

Since over half of W&L’s games
are played with members of the
Mason - Dixon Conference, this
league could do much to pressure
the Generals into conformity if they
so wished. The conference meets in
March and some move might well be
taken there to let Washington and
Lee know where it stands with the
M-D schools on this issue. Should
these schools decide to get real
tough on the subject, W&L might
find itself in quite a quandry when
it comes to scheduling in the future.

This year the General schedule is
dotted with no less than 11 games

(Continued on page 4)

 

VMI, Richmond Edge Rifle Team

The W&L varsity rifle team placed
last in a three-way meet with VMI
and Richmond last Saturday.

VMI Wins

The cadets walked away with top
honors scoring an overall 1401 to
Richmond’s 1368 and the General’s
1365,

John Rosenburg was high for
WE&L with a 276 while General
rifle Captain Dave Auld tallied
a 275.

The freshman rifilemen take on
Staunton tonight at 7:30 at the
VMI rifle range.

 

Hs ate atest \? Me aX Me ake ate ate alte ste at 7
MHeeheleoh Me tle le oe le he eke lero tele oleleole leolerertote

% it
= THE DUTCH INN:
ee

cy For Reservation Call :
* MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS 5
HO 3-3433 z
= ”
erteobeteeoteteobeeoteteteoteteoteobeteoteteteteeteed

 

 

 

THE NEW

White Top
Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods

Route 60 East

The next encounter for the var-
sity contingent will be the Wake
Forest team. The Generals will meet
the Deacons February 9th there.

In previous matches this season
Coach Matthews’ squad has drop-
ped a match to Virginia and a close
decision to William and Mary.

Season Record Now Stands At 3-5

 

R-M Tops Generals, 62-57

Washington and Lee’s basketball
team was red hot at the foul line
Saturday but a poor percentage from
the floor spelled its 62-57 downfall
to Randolph-Macon.

The Generals sank an amazing 19
of 19 free throws, an about face
from their usual efforts at the chari-
ty stripe. But free throws weren't
enough to whip a blistering second
half offensive by the Yellow Jackets.

The Jackets sank 14 of 22 shots
from the floor the second half—a
percentage of 63.4—to erase a
35-26 W&L halftime lead.

 

Paced by Captain Bip Fauber
and new-found star Tom Supak, the
Generals broke away late in the
opening half for a nine point cush-
ion.

Randolph - Macon narrowed the
W&L lead to three points with two
minutes left in the first half, but
three baskets by Supak shot the
Generals way ahead.

After intermission the Generals
upped their margin to as much as
12 points. Then disaster struck.

In a span of eight minutes W&L
managed only six points while the

 

Swimmers Top

Georgetown;

Four Old Records Smashed

The swimming team turned out another record-breaking
performance defeating Georgetown University, 68-26, here

Saturday.

 

Smith, Babcock
Lead Wrestlers
Over N.C. State

Herb Smith and Jud Babcock,
W&L’s 177 pound and heavyweight
wrestlers took match honors at
Raleigh Saturday to give the Gen-
erals matmen a 16-14 decision over
N. C. State.

Smith Pins

Smith pinned his opponent, Jack
Watson, in 5:30 while Babcock, who
was outweighed by some forty
pounds, fought his way out of sev-
eral pinning holds to assure the
Generals a two point margin of vic-
tory.

Three Others Win

Other winners for the Blue and
White were Butch West, who won by
forfeit, Dave Montgomery by de-
cision 10-3, and Sandy Mercereau
who took a 7-3 decision.

In what was easily the most ex-
citing match of the evening, the
Wolfpack’s Jack Hauas handed
167 pounder Dick Albert his first
defeat of the year, 5-4.

In the 147 pound class Don Ather-
an of State score a takedown in the
final period to edge Chick Owens,
4-3,

JV WIN
The JV preliminary saw the Baby
(Continued on page 4)

Se eteeeteeeeeeeeee
*
The
CHILDREN’S

CORNER
Corner Main and Washington

SH iol is

 

ate
x

John Wolfe, a promising W&L
freshman, smashed the school record
in the 440 freestyle with a time of
§:17.6.

The W&L 440 medley relay team
of Mike Harris, Elliott Maynard,
Charlie Gummey, and Steve Stull
won their event with a _ record-
breaking time of 3:52.6. Also, Herb
Jahncke, Charlie Gummey, Nick

Mansarrat, and Dave Benn collabor- |

ated in the 400 yard freestyle to set
a new school record of 3:24.

Dick Hauser of Georgetown an-
other record-breaker, set a new pool
mark in the 200 yard freestyle event,
going the distance in 2:13.

Other winners for W&L were Jim
Wearn in the 50 yard freestyle,
Bruce Houghton in the diving com-
petition, Ernest Williams swimming
the 100 yard freestyle in 53 seconds,
and Jim Wallenstein in the 200 yard
breaststroke event posting a time of
2:22.

Both Wolfe and Stull again ap-
peared in the first place column,
Stull winning the 200 yard butter-
fly competition with a respectable
time of 2:20.1, and Wolfe in the
200 yard freestyle defeating his op-
ponents with a time of 2:16.1.

Coach  Eastman’s undefeated
swimmers have had an easy time of
it so far this season, but their
roughest meets are yet to come.
Such teams as Maryland University
and Pittsburgh will afford a lot more
competition for the mermen.

Both teams have the depth as
well as individual standouts to do
the job against W&L’s unsubsidized
but willing team.

(Continued on page four)

COCSCHOCOOOOHCOECEOOEOOOCE
IDEAL
BARBER SHOP
QUICK SERVICE

 

 

 

Jackets were pouring in 18 and
taking a 45-44 lead.

For the next six minutes the game
see-sawed back and forth. A jump
shot by Louis Paterno with 4:30
left put the Generals back into the
game for the last time, making the
score 55-55.

Going into a stall, Randolph-
Macon worked for the good shots
and big Frank Kaminski collected
two buckets and a free throw to
salt away the win.

   
   

 

Howie Martin (42) goes up for a rebound.

The loss dropped the Generals’
recrod to 3-5. Their next game is
tomorrow night at Bridgewater. Sat-
urday they meet Norfolk William
and Mary here at 8:30.

Tom Supak captured top scoring
honors for the third straight game
with 18 points. Fauber had 15 and
Paterno, nine .

Fauber, again playing a terrific
game on the boards, collected 18
rebounds. He grabbed 16 in the first
half, but had to sit out most of the
second half because of foul trouble.

= iE 3 as She ee

 

: Shirt Service as You Like it :
: Quality Cleaning and Pressing :
: UNIVERSITY CLEANERS :
° HO 3-3622 :
: * :
: “Your Campus Neighbors” :
COSccccccccocccceoooecco‘ecococeoeeooooooeoeeoces

 

 
    

alii.

PUBLIC
SERVICE

VIRGINIA

OO”; rr

      

 

 

 

SEAL

We Feature

Dairy Products
To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice
Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

TEST

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS!
Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

Southern Inn

 

 

SIC FLICS

NY

“The Dean will see you now.”

eh

‘

 

21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!

WOGETT & MYERS TORACCO CO,

AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD -THEY SATISFY

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Supaks Are Eligible In Theory

(Continued from page two)
clean and pure as an athletic program can possibly be. Yet
it is a crying shame that Washington and Lee has to play
opponents who are so “win” conscious that they dig and dig

and dig to find some “‘tainted’

’ excuse as to why they lost to

Washington and Lee’s “amateurs.”

J. M.A.

 

Fancy Dress Costume Sales
Hit All-Time High This Year

Totaling 504, costumes sales
for this year’s Fancy Dress
nearly doubled the number
sold last year, Dance Board
Vice President Frank Young
reported today.

Reflecting upon the increased in-
terest in this year’s Fancy Dress
Ball among the student body, Young
went further to predict that 1500
people, including faculty members,

guests, and townspeople, will attend
the Ball Friday night.

One of the reasons for the in-
creased participation in Fancy
Dress from outside the student
body is the change in Dance Board
policy regulating ticket sales.

Students wishing to bring guests
from other colleges to Fancy Dress
may purchase tickets for them at re-
duced rates.

This new ruling requires only
that the student purchasing tickets
must give his guest’s name and col-
lege, and pay for the tickets in
advance. This may be done up until
Friday, January 26.

The reduced rates will be $5 for
the Concert and $10 for the Con-
cert and both dances. Admission at
the door will be $7.50 for the Con-
cert and $5 for each of the dances.

Dance Board President Steve
Galef said today that students who
wish to get student tickets should
mail a check or cash with the re-
turn address to Box 458, Lexing
ton.

Tickets will be sold at the door

for persons who are not students,
and the rates are as follows: Con-
cert, $7.50; Dances, $5.00 each.

Having concluded arrangements
for the use of the Commons, Young
noted that the only stipulation is
that there shall be no parking allow-

ed on either side of the street in|»

front of the Commons. He said that

the Dance Board urges full student]
cooperation in this matter since the |:

Dance Board use of the Commons
is on a trial basis.

Plans Underway

Plans are well underway for dec-
oration of the Commons in harmony
with the “High Society” theme. The
atmosphere will be that of an Inaug-

ural Ball or some similar affair of | §

state. Costumes will be full dress.

Although no refreshments will be |:

served in the Commons, the Co-op

will be open during the dance and |*

refreshments may be purchased
there.

 

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_HOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

Wed. through Sat.

It's the Merriest
Mixings Since
Girls Discovered
Boys!!!

  
   

 

TUESDAY WELD- RICHARD BEYER
TERRVTHOMAS-CELESTE HOM

DIRECTED BY SCREENPLAY BY
FRANK TASHLIN » FRANK TASHLIN » BUDD
CINsmMaAScOPE : COLOR by DE LUXE

IT IS WHERE

THE GIRLS ARE!

  

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tumn Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues- |:

day and Friday durin e college year.

It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
ashington and Lee Uni-
The mailing address is Box

pret A
versity.
899, Lexington, Va.

Press,

Executive News Editor........ Steve
News Editor...
Sports Editor.

  
 

e
e
e
National Advertising Service : ROOMS
60 E. 60th Street ° for
How Tee Te, Now Tere ®@ Student’s Guests for Weekend
Entered as second class matter Sep-| @ .
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-| @ Parties and Dances
ington, Va., under the act of March ;
3, 1878. : Call
TROP icssscsssescaove Robert Roy Goodwin, Il
Business Managet.............. Peter Agelasta >. Mrs. J. B. Meade
Editorial Board ° 422 Morningside Heights
Managing Editor... Andy Nea xington
Asst. i ng Editor........John good . le
uild | ¢
=
=
=

   

Julian Markham
..Peter Alford

Dr. Louis Hodges, assistant pro-
fessor of religion, will conduct a
weekly series of informal discussions
on Christian theology.

A group will begin meeting in the
Student Union the first week of the
second semester, under the sponsor-
ship of the University Christian As-
sociation.

The study will be based on the
reading of Understanding Christian
Faith by Georgia Harkness. “Our
aim,” states Dr. Hodges, “is to

 

   
   
 
 
 
   
 

sigan senses

= Faculty and students of |
©. Washington and Lee will ©
~ pause Friday to pay tribute to ©
General Robert E. Lee in a &
special Founders’ Day assem- ©
bly.

Dr. Fred C. Cole will de-
liver the annual “state of the
university” address to some
1,300 faculty, students, and
guests attending the tradition-
= al noon assembly in Doremus
Gymnasium. It will be Dr. ©
Cole’s third appearance at the =
: convocation since he assumed ©
Washington and Lee’s presi- %
dency in September, 1959.

Students will enjoy a holi-
day from classes Friday for
the 155th anniversary of the
birth of the Southern Gen-
eral. Semester examinations
begin Tuesday for a 10-day
= period.

: Washington and Lee also
: observes the February 22
- birthday of its other name-

: sake, George Washington, as
Founders’ Day. However no
assembly is held then, but the
= university suspends activities
= for the day.

sma as

  

  
  
  
   
    
    
   
   

 

    

eeeeoeeoooee

Phone HO 3-2462

 

UCA To Have Dr. Hodges Renew Theology Lectures

understand basic Christian beliefs
= see their relevance to modern

_”

Dr. Hodges is undertaking the
study by popular demand due to the
success of last year’s discussions on
Christian ethics. “Already a large
number of students have expressed
the desire to join,” Dr. Hodges com-
mented.

Anyone interested in participating
must contract Dr. Hodges by the end
of this week so the books can be
ordered. An announcement of the
meeting will be made later.

Shell Oil Co.

 

'|Gives W&L

$1500 Grant

The Shell Oil Company has chosen

Washington and Lee to share in its
program of “Shell Assists” to higher
education for the third consecutive
year.
The receipt of the Shell gift of
$1,500 was announced today by Pres-
ident Fred C. Cole. The money in-
cludes $500 of unrestricted funds,
$500 for general faculty development
and $500 for professional develop-
ment of individual faculty members
in engineering, mathematics and the
physical sciences.

Washington and Lee is among
nearly 100 private colleges and uni-

“The university is most grateful
for this additional support from one
of our four leading corporations,”
President Cole said. “The cumulative
effect of the Shell program is of
great meaning to private higher
education.”

 

Mercedes-Benz
Sales & Service
Your Patronage Solicited

Jarrett-Chewning Co., Inc.
1854 So. Jefferson St.
Roanoke, Va.

DI 5-7757

 

3

 

W&L Unfair
Says Barrett

(Continued from page 3)

with Mason-Dixon foes. W&L is on
a home-and-home basis with
Bridgewater, Hampden - Sydney,
Catholic University and Randolph-
Macon and plays single games with
Roanoke, Lynchburg and Washing-
ton (Md.) from this league.

This column in no way wishes
anyone to think that W&L is
breaking any written rule. It isn’t.
But Washington and Lee is oper-
ating its basketball team under
rules that few of its opponents
are free to use.

While the General athletic depart-
ment has been following the letter
of the law, many critics will agree
that W&L leaves a little to be de-
sired on the spiritual side of law
abiding.

 

Auburn Excels In Major

Robert M. Aurburn, a D. U. junior
from Falls Church, Va., has been
selected as Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s outstanding chemistry ma-
jor and will be honored by the Blue
Ridge Section of the American
Chemical Society on January 20.

Auburn was chosen as the top
chemistry major by the faculty
members of the Washington and Lee
Chemistry Department.

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS
Phone HO 3-3813, 108 S. Jefferson

 

New Study Room Opened
As Examinations Near
(Continued from page 1)

building in 1941, and has served a
multitude of purposes since that
date. The Bicentennial Committee
used it as offices in 1949 and special
lecturers have appeared there. The
room was once rigged for closed-
circuit television for the overflow
crowds during the 1958 spring lec-
tures of Dr. Arnold Toynbee.

From 1951 to 1955 a loan exhibition
from the Metropolitan Museum of
Art was displayed in the room.

 

 

 

Wrestlers Meet Norfolk
(Continued from page 3)

Generals defeat the State frosh, 17-
11 on decisions by Bo Jones, Woody
Woodrum, Dave Garven, Terry Van
Brunt and a forfeit to Garret Krat-
zig.

This Saturday the Generals en-
tertain a tough Norfolk William
and Mary team which boasts sev-
eral state champions on_ its
squad. The match starting at 7:00,
will precede a basketball game
with Norfolk W&M.

 

Swimmers Face Maryland

(Continued from page 3)

The first of these encounters will
come against Maryland on the eve-
ning of February 13, at Maryland at
8 p.m.

 

NEW TOWN INN
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

 

 

 

 

Complete Formal Accessories

:

FORMAL WEAR
Flee :
pee)

en encores e

8
e

and 2
é

e

e

e

=

e

COLLEGE TOWN
Shops
eeeeococesooecsoecnsses

 

 

Radio Hospital
x

Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531
14 South Randolph

 

 

 

 

Don Wallis. .Asst. Sports Editor
Associate Editors.............4 C. C. Flippen, eta
om Lybass, Tom Edwards,
Bill Bowen, Ken Lane e
Ros Cam en hccbesbesaecsaeecsaniiiel r notographer
opy i irsesessersesances Whi
Jack Desarnetts
Columnistg................ Thorns Craven, Dave
Knight, Robert C. Ketcham,
George Honts
WHEE MOMOIUG a... ceccccesssesesvescesses Advertising
Se BD sccisntectensteersinerescined Circulation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he he Mets Be Behe Be he Be Be le le he Be Ba le ae Bae es

 

 

Fe ee
Dodge and Dodge Dart:
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC,

Phone HObart 3-3146

22 + 2 2 2 SS DD Dt 2 tt ot DD Do
TTrTTTt-s***-**'ssseerrrrt

eee

io he Me Me Me Ba he ede BeBe Bette ee ede te he ne 2

CESS SS Se SS se ee ee ee

 

 

 

OE Ee Ee eS ee ee eS SS

 

Be She Be He ate Me Me sa Ma Me Ma ie Be Ba Ba Ba Be Be Be Be Ba Be Ba Ba Ma a Ba te te he he he a a he he he he he he he te he he ee ce

 

 

Mle Re Re Be Ba te Me Be Ba Be Ba Be Be Be Bee Ba Ba Ba Ba ite Ba Bee Ba Bee Ba Bee Ba Ba Bea dhe Ba ee Bee ha the te Be Ba Be

ee

Tere TST see eee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee

 

You will find this bank a pleasant place
to transact your banking business.

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.

delivers de gustibus.”

 

 

Sie aie ite iM i Me ie ie ea te Sn en in se Stn in itn ata sie sin sie ain sien in ie ata i ste ite st site site ite, ete, site se ait,

te tae ae ae Re Re Mi Me ae RE RT RT RT RY RT RS RT ET a Re ae a eT a ae a ee ee eee ee

 

 

 

“Tareyton’s Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!”
says Titus (Pretzel Bender) Ursus, darling of the Coliseum
crowd. Says Pretzel Bender, “After the amphitheater I relax
and have a Tareyton. Amo, amas...everyone amat Tareyton.
Et tu will, too. Tareyton’s one filter cigarette that really

 
    
    
 

PURE WHITE
OUTER FILTER

DUAL FILTER

<M ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
{Paap INNER FILTER

Zarevyton

Product of She Awarican Iebaceo Company — Iebacee is our middle name. O47. &
