TUESDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 31, 1961

Number 12

 

 

22 Students Selected For 196

1,050 Parents
Make Weekend
Largest Yet

A record of 1050 parents
and guests, over 125 more
than last year, attended the
seventh annual Parents’ Week-
end.

This figure includes the par-
ents of 491 students, repre-
senting 46 per cent of the
student body. A total of 1255
people were served at the Par-
ents’ Day luncheon Saturday.
In comparison, last year had
921 parents and guests, with
440 sets of parents represent-
ing 40 per cent of the student

body.

The weekend began with regis-
tration Friday morning and termi-
nated with the Glee Club Concert
Saturday night. Activities got under-
way Friday afternoon with a meet-
ing of the Parents’ Advisory Coun-
cil in Evans Dining Hall, with Rich-
ard T. Evans of Roanoke as Chair-
man. At the meeting, Sherwood
Wise (W&L ’32), Jaskson, Mississip-
pi, was elected to succeed Mr. Ed-
wards as next year’s chairman of
the 50-member organization. Dr.
Joseph McDaniel, Jr., Pineville, Pa.,
was elected vice-chairman.

Highlighting the activities Friday
night were the public faculty dis-
cussions on major topics of current
events. In Lee Chapel, Dr. Leon F.
Sensabaugh and Dr. Charles W.
Turner, both professors of history,
discussed “Leftist Movements in
South America and the Economic
Stakes.” Dr. Sensabaugh discussed
the historial nature of the Com-
munist movement in South America,
pointing out how it began in labor
unions and grew into the profes-
sional classes.

Dr. Milton Colvin, associate pro-
fessor of political science, and Dr.
Thomas P. Hughes, associate pro-
fessor of history, talked about
“Berlin: A Problem for the West.”
This was held in duPont Auditorium.
Dr. Colvin in his discussion favored
the firm stand taken by the West
on Berlin. He felt that the loss of
Berlin would mean the end of NATO
and of all American influence in
Europe. Dr. Hughes emphasized the
threat of major world conflict which
the economic ambitions of Russia
have imposed on the world situation.

The annual “Report to Parents”
by university administrative officers
was given Saturday morning. The
program opened with a talk by stu-
dent body president Andrew W.
McThenia, Jr., of Alderson, West

 

Fancy Dress, (I-r) Christian, Goodwin, Croft (back row) ;

For This

By STEVE GUILD
Executive News Editor

Bill Ide, president of the 1962
Fancy Dress Ball, announced today
the selection of the vice-presidents
to assist in the planning and pro-
ducing of the dance set. Roy Good-
win, Robin Norfleet, Bob Doenges,
Jerry Hyatt, Meade Christian, and
Ed Croft were those named to
handle various phases of Fancy
Dress Ball.

President of Fancy Dress, Bill
Ide is a senior from Statesville,
North Carolina. He has been a dorm
councilor, a member of SWMSFC,
vice-president of the junior class,
sports editor of the Ring-tum Phi,
president of the “13” club, and house
manager. He has also played varsity
basketball and is on the Dean’s
List.

Ide told the Ring-tum Phi today
that he was announcing the vice-
presidents much earlier than usual
this year because work on the
“South’s outstanding collegiate social
event” is to begin in the near fu-
ture.

Magazines To Be Contacted
Roy Goodwin, KA senior from
Augusta, Georgia, is vice-president
in charge of publicity. Goodwin is
editor of the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi,
president of the KA house, president

 

Va. The deans of the university
(Continued on page four)

of Sigma Delta Chi, and was vice-
president of Springs Dances last

 

Hyatt, Ide, and Doenges.
Absent from picture is Robin Norfieet.

Ide Selects 6 Vice-Presidents

Year's Fancy Dress

year. Goodwin intends to contact
Look, Life and The Saturday Eve-
ning Post about doing stories on
Fancy Dres.

Doenges Is Co-Ordinator

Bob Doenges, a Sigma Chi senior
from Bartlesville, Oklahoma, is co-
ordinator of Fancy Dress. Doenges
is president of the IFC, is a member
of SWMSFC, “13” club and has been
vice-president and secretary of the
Sigma Chi house.

Hyatt in Charge of Figure
Jerry Hyatt, a Delta Tau Delta
senior from Hyayttsville, Md., is a
dormitory counselor, is on the As-
similation Committee, and on the
football and lacrosse teams. He was

Dr. Taylor Cole
To Speak Here

Dr. Taylor Cole, brother of Dr.
Fred C. Cole, will speak here on
the “New Developing Governments
of West Africa.”

A political science professor at
Duke University, Dr. Taylor Cole
spent a year in West Africa study-
ing the problems of government
there.

His talk will be given in Lee
Chapel at 8 p.m. on Thursday No-
vember 9.

 

 

also a freshman camp counselor and
is a member of Scabbard and Blade.
Hyatt is vice-president in charge of
the figure.

Norfleet To Direct Party

Robin Norfleet, a KA senior from
Woodberry Forest, Va., is vice-pres-
ident in charge of the cocktail party.
Norfleet has been in the Glee Club,
secretary of the KA house, on the
Ring-tum Phi, and is also a mem-
ber of Mongolian Minks and Sigma.
(He is not shown in the picture.)

Christian: Invitations

Meade Christian, a Phi Gamma
Delta junior from Richmond, Va.,
is vice-president in charge of invi-
tations. Christian is junior execu-
tive committeeman, a dormitory
counselor, a member of SWMSFC,
Phi Eta Sigma, AED, “13” club, and
is on the advisory board of the
Seminars in Literature.

Decorations V.P. is Croft

Ed Croft a sophomore from At-
lanta, Georgia, is vice-president in
charge of decorations. He was fresh-
man executive Committeeman, is
president of the sophomore class,
a member of the Dance Board and
the Assimilation Committee, and has
played varsity football and track.

Ide, F.D. president, said that “with
these vice-presidents and the bands
that we are going to get, Fancy Dress
this year will be one of the best
ever seen at Washington and Lee.”

 

] Who’s Who

Two Less Than In 1960
Chosen For Select Group

By STEVE GUILD
Executive News Editor

Twenty-two academic and

law seniors from Washington

and Lee have been selected for membership to Who’s Who in
American Colleges and Universities, it was announced late

yesterday.

Last year Washington and Lee had twenty-four men, seven-
teen undergraduates and seven law students, chosen for the

honor.

The sixteen undergraduates and
six law students, like all others se-
lected for the honor in the United
States, were chosen for outstanding
leadership in academic and extra-
curricular activities in their respec-
tive colleges.

Those chosen for Who’s Who from
Washington and Lee are as follows:

Peter Alexander Agelasto, Il, Phi
Psi senior from London Bridge, Va.;
business manager of the Ring-tum
Phi; president of UCA; Commerce
Fraternity; Dean’s List.

Terrence Edward Fohs, Delta Tau
Delta senior from Baltimore, Md.;
dormitory counselor; Little All-
American center; lacrosse; Varsity
club; Dean’s List; Honor Roll.

Robert Glenn Frank, law school
senior from Salem, Va.; president of
Student Bar Association; president
of Intermediate law class; associate
editor of Law Review; Phi Delta Phi.

Steven Allen Galef, Zeta Beta Tau
senior from White Plains, New York;
president of Dance Board; senior
Executive Committeeman; Student
Service Society; Liberty Hall So-
ciety; Dean’s List; Honor Roll.

Joseph Leonard Goldstein, Zeta
Beta Tau senior from Kingstree,
South Carolina; editor of Calyx; sec-
retary of Publications Board; chair-
man of Student Library Committee;
president of Phi Eta Sigma; Phi
Beta Kappa; Dean’s List, Honor Roll.

Robert Roy Goodwin, Kappa Al-
pha senior from Augusta, Ga.; edi-
tor of the Ring-tum Phi; vice-pres-
ident of Publications Board; presi-
dent of Sigma Delta Chi; president
of Kappa Alpha.

Pearce Downton Hardwick, Beta
Theta Pi senior from Akron, Ohio;
assistant editor of W&L Handbook;
sports editor of Calyx; Student Ser-
vice Society; varsity basketball and
baseball; Dean’s List; Honor Roll;
president of Opening Dances; vice-
president of senior class.

Roy William Ide, Ill, Kappa Al-
pha senior from Statesville, North
Carolina; president of Fancy Dress;
dormitory counselor; SWMSFC;
basketball; Dean’s List.

Andrew Wolfe McThenia, Jr., Del-
ta Tau Delta law school senior from
Alderson, West Virginia; president
of Student Body; Phi Beta Kappa;
football.

*

 

 

William Dell Outman, Pi Kappa
Alpha senior from Washington, D.C.;
sophomore Executive Committee-
man; president of Spring Dances;
dormitory counselor; sports editor
of the Ring-tum Phi; Dean’s List;
Omicron Delta Kappa.

Rosewell Page, III, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon senior from Beaver Dam,
Virginia; senior Executive Commit-
teeman; Omicron Delta Kappa; edi-
tor of the Ring-tum Phi; SWMFSC;
Publications Board; football; base-
ball; Dean’s List; Honor Roll.

John Abbott Paul, law school sen-
ior from Harrisonburg, Va.; senior
law Executive Committeeman; Law

Review; dormitory counselor; Dean’s
List.

Macon Cobb Putney, law school
senior from Big Island, Va.; under-
graduate at Lynchburg College
where he was president of senior
class; Omicron (same as ODK);
Who’s Who in American Colleges
and Universities; At W&L: Dean’s
List; editor of Law Review; Phi
Delta Phi.

William Lee Roberts, Jr., Sigma
Alpha Epsilon senior from Wililams-
burg, Va.; editor of the Ring-tum
Phi; Publication’s Board Executive
Committeeman; Phi Eta Sigma;
Dean’s List; Honor Roll.

Raymond Robert Robrecht, Jr.,
Phi Gamma Delta law school sen-
ior from Plainville, New Jersey;
head dormitory counselor for two
years; vice-president of student
body; intermediate law school Exe-
cutive Committeeman; Law Review;
president of Phi Gamma _ Delta;
Dean’s List; boxing.

Stephen Walker Rutledge, Phi
Gamma Delta senior from Zenith,
Washington; dormitory counselor;
chairman of Assimilation Committee;
Student Service Society; president
of Phi Gamma Delta; Commerce
Fraternity; basketball, tennis; Phi
Eta Sigma; Dean’s List; Honor Roll.

Phillip Doane Sharp, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon senior from Richmond, Va.;
assistant head dormitory counselor;
football; baseball; Lee Scholar;
Dean’s List.

Joseph Marvin Spivey, Ill, law
school senior from Raleigh, North
Carolina; Southern Conference
swimming champion; director of in-

(Continued on page four)

Troubs Open Tonight With “Boy Meets Girl

Play Runs Through Friday; Tickets Still Available

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Managing Editor

Boy Meets Girl, a comedy about
two zany Hollywood writers who de-
light in playing practical jokes on
their producer opens tonight at the
Troubadour Theater. Show time is
8 p.m. for the Troubs’ first produc-
tion of the year.

The play features a special three-
minute film clip, shot on location
last week, at the opening of the
second act.

Young Roberts in Film
Starring in the film is four-month- |

old Billy Roberts, who makes his
acting debut as Happy, an unchal-

| Ts

 

lenged infant prodigy and _ the

youngest star in movie history. He |

is the son of Friday Ring-tum Phi |
editor, Bill Roberts.

Leonard, Gray Appear |

The two zanny Hollywood writers

| whom they constantly harass, is por-

trayed by sophomore Phil Booth,
a sophomore from Chevy Chase, Md.

Susie Dunnell Acts
Appearing as the waitress Susie
is Susie Dunnell, wife of Trouba-
dour Theater president John Dun-
nell. Happy is Susie’s baby in the
play is the point of the writers’
most famous joke.

Colvin Portrays Englishman

Other major roles feature sopho- |

more Steve Colvin of Evansville,

 

Reservations for Boy Meets Girl
may be made by calling HObart

3-2181, and asking for extension | long run on Broadway in 1935. Now

273 or the Troubadour Theater,
from three to five and six to
eight.

 

as a young Englishman who}

 

and Scott Iacone and Jim Apple-
baum as a pair of hack composers of
background music.
Other Roles
Other roles have Yvonne Dickens

|as the producer’s secretary; Wanda

Johnson as the nurse; Lisa Tracy
as the manicurist; Tom Hampton as
the doctor; Charlie Bright as the

chauffer; Frank Morgan as the young —

man; Tim O’Keefe as the studio po-

liceeman; Terry Van Brunt as the 7

cutter; and Phil Siffing as Major §

Thompson,
Three-Act Comedy
Boy Meets Girl is a_ three-act

comedy by Bella and Samuel Spe-
wack. It was first produced for a

| it has been rewritten and updated

and is a clever satire of the rep-

| resentation of life in a Hollywood

in Boy Meets Girl are played by | cannot act but still manages to get |
juniors Andy Leonard of Bronxville,| into trouble at every turn; senior |

N. Y. and Gerry Gray of Winnetka, |
Ill. Their producer, the producer!

Ron Alenstein of Hyattsville, Md.,
as a typical greedy actor’s agent;

studio.
Jones Is Director
Dr. Cecil D. Jones, Jr., assistant
professor of fine arts, is directing
the play.

 

Andy Leonard (right) and Jerry Gray lecture Suzie Dunnell in scene from Boy Meets Girl.
Page 2

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

THE RING-TUM PHI

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

Keep Assimilation Committee Until Dress Becomes Tradition

The furor that has recently developed over Washington with the recent Board of Trustees’ decision to ban Dr. Mar-
and Lee’s Assimilation Committee is indicative of what we like | tin Luther King from speaking here.

to believe represents a new trend of thought on this campus.

The Friday Edition of the Ring-tum Phi has devoted two
editorials concerning abolishing the Assimilation Committee,
while Steve Rutledge, chairman of that organization, has an-
swered one of these editorials in a letter that was published

last Tuesday.

The Tuesday Edition, feeling that perhaps still an-
other side exists to this problem of assimilation, is of the
opinion that our position should be given consideration
by the students, the Assimilation Committee members,
and the members of the Executive Committee.

We do not, and never will, advocate a complete
abolishment of the Assimilation Committee: as long as
conventional dress is regarded as being a tradition that is
given only lip service by the Student Body.

We hold the belief that with the situation as it exists now,
the Assimilation Committee is “a necessary but an evil func-
tion.” To abolish that Committee with one fell swoop at the
present time would be a drastic mistake—a mistake that Wash-
ington and Lee would regret for many years.

It further is our opinion that this Committee is a prerequi-
site for the successful enforcement of the freshman assimi-
lation rules. Perhaps the Assimilation Committee’s rules, as
they stand now, are out of tune with the new thought that has
developed on this campus; and, perhaps, in due time these
rules possibly could be done away with all together.

We do not want to see the Assimilation Committee abol-
ished by a drastic decision that could harm Washington and
Lee’ s reputation. That reputation already has been hurt enough

: 3 Sees ae : :

 

Conventional dress deserves to be a real tradition
at Washington and Lee. This University’s heritage and
its name have both had their success, even if in only a
very small way, attributed to her “traditions.”

We are not going to argue the “hows” and ‘‘whys”
of W&L should look nice—that’s already been said
and attacked. Our reason for wanting to see conven-
tional dress continued is because, as Mr. Rutledge put
it, Washington and Lee might “‘be reduced to the
status of another ordinary college.”’

Washington and Lee is by no means an ordinary Uni-
versity. This University does stand apart from other schools,
and we feel that it would be a blow to tear down what repu-
tations we still have. In short, we believe that any action
taken without due consideration to our status and to our herit-
age would indeed be a step in the wrong direction.

We can, however, see the other side of this case. It is
indeed a hollow tradition that has to be enforced. ‘‘Tradition
suggests—never dictates,” one writer has said. With the above
quote in mind, does it not seem silly to enforce a rule by means
of a police-like committee that forces us to “look nice?”

If conventional dress were a real tradition at W&L, a tra-
dition as cherished as our Honor System or our way of life
here, then there would be little work for the Assimilation
Committee to do. Unfortunately this situation does not exist.

We, therefore, challenge this Student Body to give

a sincere answer to this question: “DOES WASHING.

TON AND LEE WANT TO ABOLISH CONVEN.

TIONAL ee

 

    

Troubadours’ First Production,

‘Boy Meets Girl

By MAC McCLUNG
Tuesday Reviewer

not-so-calm, producer whose new
film is shown during the play and

The Troubadour Theater’s first
production of the 1961-62 season,
Boy Meets Girl, is a delightful
comedy in three acts by Bella and
Samuel Spewack. First produced for
a long run on broadway in 1935, the
play has been rewritten and up-
dated and is as clever a satire of

quarter of a century ago. In its
representation of life in a Holly-
wood studio, it doesn’t leave a stone
unturned, making the topsy-turvy
world of the film hilariously chaotic.

Considering the size of the cast—
eighteen—and the fact that many
of the members of the cast are mak-
ing their stage debut, that the play
contains a technical innovation
which the Troubs haven’t tried be-
fore, and that the play itself will
drag noticeably if its rapid pace is
broken, the Troubs are to be com-
mended for what they have done.

In the first act the play builds
to roaring pace which is maintained
throughout, and the moments of re-
lief, needed to provide a rest from
the comic tension which the play
sparks, are well-played. The action
and staging are smooth, the lines
well-delivered, and the character-
izations excellent throughout.

Reservations for Boy Meets Girl
may be made by calling HO 3-2181,
and asking for Extension 273 or
the Troubadour Theater, from
three to five and six to eight p.m.

Jerry Gray and Andy Leonard
play Law and Benson, the two hack
writers, whose every script sounds
like every other script they ever
wrote, Full of laughs and new gags,
they plot their way in and out of
all sorts of inconceivable situations,
and Gray and Leonard bring to life
the stereotype existence of the per-
sonified cliche. Phil Booth is equal-
ly convincing in his excellent por-
trayal of C. F., Mr. Friday, the in-
telligent, efficient, smooth, calm, and

 

provides one of its funniest mo-

» Delightful

acterization, convincingly enough to| Scott Iacone, as Slade and Green,
make us want never to see another} songwriters whose musical crea-
western. tions affirm all beliefs that one

We hope that the answer will be a loud and a very
clear ‘““NO!”’; and from knowing the character of this
University’s students, we can predict that the answer
to this challenge will be negative.

The following proposals sum up what we feel represents
our side to this assimilation question. We realize, quite frank-
ly, that these suggestions are by no means perfect: they simply
represent one organization’s opinion. We feel sure that there
are other beliefs about this matter which are held by students
and faculty members. We encourage these opinions and will
honor each and every one of them. We would propose the fol-
lowing:

(1) Conventional dress should be limited to the
campus of Washington and Lee, and that mode of
dress should be encouraged to be worn in and around
Lexington.

(2) For the present time, the Assimilation Com-
mittee should be continued with emphasis being placed
on a stricter enforcement of the freshman rules, and to
an enforcement of assimilation rules only on the cam-
pus.

(3) The Executive Committee, with the help of the
Assimilation Committee, should conduct a study on the
possibility of limiting the Committee’s jurisdiction
to only the freshman rules. This study should be made
only after a general “tapering off’ of assimilation of
upperclassmen is undertaken. The records of the As-
similation Committee, such as the number of upper-
classmen not in conventional dress for a specified period
of time, should dictate the feasibility of this ‘tapering
off” policy.

(4) Include in any results or findings by the Execu-
tive Committee the stipulation that if after the dress
rules are no longer under strict enforcement, and only
if the appearance gets out of hand on campus, then the
Executive Committee, by recommendation of public
opinion and student reaction, will reactivate the Assimi-
lation Committee to take their former position on the
rules of dress.

(5) Encourage the student body to accept con-
ventional dress as being a real tradition: not a rule that

 

ments.

Susie Dunnell, making her first

Bruce Whelihan plays Larry Toms| Lexington appearance,
—the Pat Boone of the West, an all-| the character of Susie superbly
American, clean-cut, clean-living| and portrays delightfully the love-
cowboy actor who should have stay-| ly but empty-headed waitress who
ed on the range but instead be-| doesn’t know that a star is about

came a matinee idol—with fine char-| to be born. Jim Applebaum and
the Hollywood of today as it was a|

needs no talent to be able to write
popular music, create some of the
funniest scenes in the play, even
though their roles are minor ones.
Ron Alenstein does a fine job as

renders

 

(Continued on page 4)

 

has to be enforced by a committee.

We offer these proposals to the students, to the Assimila-
tion Committee, and to the Executive Committee. What each
Rosetti, Tom's manager, complete | Of you do with these suggestions is now in your hands.

Ww Ww

‘Snug Harbor At Lexington’

(Editor’s note: The following editorial appear-
ed in the October 25, 1961 issue of the Richmond
News Leader. We are reprinting it because of its
particular significance to the recent denial by the
Board of Trustees of the Washington and Lee stu-
dent body’s right of free inquiry.)

A few days ago, the Washington and Lee trus-
tees issued an order prohibiting the Rev. Martin
Luther King from speaking on the Lexington cam-
pus. The decision reversed a faculty recommen-
dation that King be invited to speak at a meeting
of the University Christian Association.

The trustees’ decision seems to us regrettable.
From time to time, Northern institutions of higher
learning regularly invite Southern spokesmen to
their campuses. Bill Simmons, director of the Mis-
sissippi Citizens Council, spoke at Elmira College
in New York; and though some students walked
out on him, he did manage to present a point of
view. Tom Waring, editor of the Charleston News
& Courier, lectures frequently north of the Poto-
mac. The late John Temple Graves, of Birming-
ham, was a familiar figure on Northern campuses.

Such institutions as Harvard, Cornell, Villa-
nova, Amherst, and Dartmouth have not hesitated
to give a hearing to Southern segregationists and

      

defenders of States’ Rights. Files of the Virginia
Commission on Constitutional Government show
that the Commission’s publications are being used
in dozens of Northern college classrooms.

To be sure, the Northern institutions seldom
give the Southern point of view a fifty-fifty break;
the custom is to rack up three liberal speakers
against one conservative, and later to turn the
liberal students loose for barbed questions to their
guest. In theory, these institutions hold that all
responsible views are equal; in practice, some are
more equal than others.

Southern institutions of higher learning, sad
to say, generally have lagged behind their Northern
cousins in tolerating conflicting points of view.
Randolph-Macon once invited Oliver Hill to speak
to the students; some of the college’s more intoler-
ent critics raised a terrible uproar. If other qualified
Negroes have been invited to defend their point of
view before predominantly white Southern institu-
tions, it has escaped our notice.

In this connection, one’s personal opinion of
Martin Luther King—or of Thurgood Marshall or
Roy Wilkins or Clarence Mitchell—is beside the
point. Admire them or despise them, they are
eminently qualified to discuss the Negroes’ posi-

   

tion on one of the great social issues of our time.
They are shrewd, intelligent, and widely experi-
enced; they have participated at first hand in revo-
lution.

If an educational institution does not expose
its students to qualified authority, how can it ex-
pect to teach effectively? Young minds must be
given an opportunity to explore for themselves, to
hear different points of view responsibly presented,
to test the blades of their own opinions in intel-
lectual duels with skilled antagonists. This is how
men learn; this is how minds grow.

“Let the winds of doctrine be let loose to play
upon the earth,” cried Milton. “Let Truth and
Falsehood grapple: who ever knew Truth put to
the worse in a free and open encounter?”

An institutional policy that seeks to shelter stu-
dents from conflicting winds of doctrine in the end
is self-defeating. Sailors cannot learn to cope with
a gale by soft exercises in a placid harbor.

A PASSING THOUGHT ...

What happened to justice in the Trus-
tees’ decision to ban Martin Luther King;
the effect of which denied Washington and
Lee students the right of free i in uiry?

   

  

Parents’ Weekend Successful -- Even With Parents

After last week’s serious and supposedly dignified
attempt to direct criticism toward what has been affec-
tionately labelled as “Topic A”, it’s pretty hard to come
back down to the usual level of petulant satire.

In the first place, “Topic A” is still of importance,
and in the second, there’s hardly anything else that
happened this week to write about. Except that there
were an awful lot of tourists on campus this past
weekend.

So I'll spend this column telling all the il-
legitimate students whose parents didn’t show up
what happened.

First of all there was the problem of eating. Friday
night was worse than Saturday night of a VMI
weekend. That is, Friday night was worse than any of
those other nights if you were trying to get into any

resturant in the vicinity. If you were trying to get
served then it was about the same as any night, and
a little better than last Tuesday. The food everywhere
was usual.

A really revealing little session was held at nine at
the President’s home. Dr. and Mrs. Cole were at home,
and so were several thousand other people in Lexing-
ton. But the out-of-towners seemed to be flocking
to the house beside Traveller’s last home, so I took
my parents there too.

Anybody who hasn’t seen that pad should stop by
some afternoon. (Carry a camera, wear a beret, smoke
a cigar and make touristy remarks like “Wow! Look at
this, Elmira!” and you can make it.) Do not go as a stu-

dent. Graduate and go as an alumnus. But go some-
time. One thing which should be noticed by all is
the cashmere rug in one room, Somewhere somebody

killed an awful big cashmere to get a skin that big.

Saturday was the same all over. Professors
gave glowing reviews to keep that tuition com-
ing in. “There’s always a little room for im-
provement,” is a really good line. Here I will
digress and give thanks to all my professors
who contained themselves with that line.

I skipped the report to the Parents given in the
Gym in the new gum chairs on the refinished gym
floor where no smoking is allowed except at basket-
ball games, so I really don’t know if they used the
scratchy old record to kick things off.

This points out the need for the University’s
membership in the Columbia Record Club. And I
couldn’t get a comment on the proceedings from
my parents because they sat in Lee Chapel during

this time—mesmerized by the glowing words of one of
the Lee-ettes as she told mother all about old R.E.

Everybody knows about the football game, and
since my father’s alma mater is having a rough year
he was happy to be on the winning side.

The cocktail party was a different story. Here
is where all the good effects of the day were washed
away, and all the bad effects too. Professors, admin-
istrators, parents, sons and dates, all gathered under
one roof to relax and to try to demonstrate what
really goes on. Without combos this was a flop—but
the liquor was good, the conversation scintillating,
and the mood mellow.

Parents’ Weekend should come more often, and
even with parents its lots of fun. Come back often,
parents, and when you can’t make it, send money.

By Thorns Craven, Tuesday Columnist
THE RING-

TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

Steve Suttle passes with protection from Charlie Gummey

and Mickey Walker in Saturday’s game with Emory and Henry. small college championship.

W&L Smashes Emory, 27-6

By JOHN ALLGOOD

Assisting Managing Editor

Early in the second period
it looked like it was going to
be a long, cold day Saturday
at Wilson Field.

Emory and Henry, which
had just pulled within two
points of W&L’s undefeated
Generals was _ threatening
again.

A moment later the entire pic-
ture changed. E&H freshman flash
Bobby Magill, who had sparked
the Wasps’ attack for nearly two
periods, crashed into 200-pound
W&L guard Bob Payne and fell
limply to the turf. Magill was

helped off the field and didn’t re-
turn.

With Magill’s departure, Emory
and Henry’s offense skidded to a
screaching stop. The Wasps gener-
ated only one more. threat—a
fourth period drive which carried to
the Generals’ five-yard line.

Minus Magill, Emory and Henry
was no match for the Five-Star
Generals who rolled to a 27-6 victory
and their second straight Virginia

 

Chowan Tramples
Frosh Gridders, 50-0

By BILL HILTON
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee’s fresh-
man football team suffered it’s
worst defeat of the season last
Friday losing to Chowan Jun-
ior College, 50-0.

A small Parents’ Weekend crowd
saw Chowan run the opening kick-
off back 85 yards for a touchdown
and then added six more tallies be-
fore the final gun sounded.

CJC’s second score came after a
68-yard march in fifteen plays on
a one-yard end run. A two point
conversion was successful.

Two touchdowns were added in
the second quarter as the visitors
capitalized on a W&L fumble and
an intercepted pass.

In the third period Chowan block-
ed a W&L punt on the Baby Gen-
erals’ 10-yard line and scored two
plays later. In the final minutes of
the third period another W&L punt
was blocked and in several plays
Chowan had added their sixth
touchdown.

The final quarter saw the powerful
Chowan line smother the Baby Gen-

 

Grid Star Dies

Onetime Washington and Lee foot-
ball star Edward Arthur (Jiggs)
Donahue of Weston, Mass., died
Sunday in the New England Baptist
Hospital in Boston, according to a
report today by the Associated Press.

A 1916 graduate of Washington
and Lee, Donahue was the captain
and quarterback of W&L’s 1914 foot-
ball team.

eral kicker again and go on to score
their last touchdown of the after-
noon.
Big Line

Throughout the game the smaller
W&L line had trouble containing
Chowan. Outweighed by 25 pounds
per man the Baby Generals were
unable to play effectively on offense
or defense.

The running of Billy David, W&L
halfback, was the offensive bright
spot all afternoon.

WEL 0 0—0

 

 

Richmond Falls
In X-C To W&L;
Shank Is First

In a tremendous show of team
balance W&L captured ten of the
first twelve places to beat Richmond
in cross-country 18-43 last Satur-
day.

Shank First

Running his home course Mike
“Tronhorse” Shank covered the 4.1
mile in 24:48. Mac Brownlee finish-
ed strong to edge out Richmond’s
McDonald for second place.

Andy Kilpatrick, Dick Rogers and
Norm Youngblood grabbed the third,
fourth and fifth spots.

Richmond placed a man seventh
with five Generals following him
to complete the rout.

Here Saturday

With this win the W&L harriers
have a 5-2 season’s slate. They will
take on Fairmont cross-country
team this Saturday.

 

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

HO 3-3622

*
**Your Campus Neighbors”

 

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

* Washington and Lee scored once

 

in each period in a game that was
predominately a punter’s duel.

Fullback Tommy Keesee put the
Generals ahead, 6-0, when he
burst 10 yards up the middle with
:30 left in the first period.
Charlie Gummey ran the two-
point conversion,

Little All-American center Terry
Fohs, who played his second superb
game in a row, set up the touchdown
when he recoverd a E&H fumble at
the Wasps’ 39-yard line. Gummey
accounted for nearly half the yard-
age to the goal line with 15 yards
in two carries.

After a punting interlude, Magill
started his talent show.

The speedy halfback from Rich-
mond gathered in Dan Blain’s punt
on the E&H 21 and dashed 79
yards down the right sidelines for
the Wasps’ lone touchdown. A pass
for the tying two-point conversion

failed.

But Magill wasn’t through.
Three plays later he picked off a
Steve Suttle pass at the E&H 45
and scooted to the W&L 21. With
Magill running wild, the Wasps’
deadly sting hovered over W&L.
What the Generals needed was

an antedote. And they had—Payne—
but they didn’t know it.

Payne, who played his usual hard,
steady game, removed the E&H
menace with one jarring tackle.

Emory and Henry tried to con-
tinue their goalward drive, but
Gummey snared a Andy Atkinson
pass at the two and ended the
Wasps’ last serious threat until the
fourth period.

 

A pair of old-time showstoppers
next muscled their way into the
spotlight. Tackle Phil McCaleb
broke through the E&H defenders
and blecked Jim Hughes’ punt at
the Wasps’ 40. Payne picked up
the bouncing ball and sped 30
yards for the second General score.
McCaleb and Payne pulled this
same blocked punt-touchdown
trick last week against Johns
Hopkins.

 

Sports Star Of The Week

Payne Plays
Rugged Tackle
For Generals

“That shark is nothing short of
vicious,” were Coach Lee McLaugh-
lin’s first sentiments when asked
to pick the outstanding player in
W&L’s 27-6 romp over Emory and
Henry Saturday.

The “shark,” referring to tackle
Bob Payne, a Delt junior, not only
picked up a blocked punt which
he ran thirty yards for a touchdown
but also was the sole cause of what
Jerry Linquist, a Richmond Times-
Dispatch sports writer, called “the
turning point of the game.”

The turning point referred to oc-
curred in the second quarter when
Payne racked up Bobby Magill, the
Wasp’s backfield ace who had al-
ready scored one touchdown and had
intercepted a Steve Suttle pass, to
such an extent that Magill was
forced to leave the game for good.

Saturday’s game marked the
second week in succession in
which Payne has figured in the
Generals’ scoring. Against Johns
Hopkins last week, he picked up
a blocked punt and scampered
eight yards for a tally.

Coach Mac added that Payne has
yet to have a bad game. “He’s
done a real fine job both offensively
and defensively for us this season.”

While maintaining a Dean’s List
average, Payne is managing editor
of the Calyx, is a member of the
Assimilation Committee, vice-presi-
dent of the junior class and was a
vice-president of this year’s opening
Dances.

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons
The
COLLEGE TOWN
Shop

Student Charge Accounts

Welcomed

 

 

 

 

 

IN THE COLLEGE
BRAND ROUND-UP

PRIZES: First Priz——SYLVANIA PORTABLE TV. Second
Prize—POLAROID CAMERA KIT.

WHO WINS: First Prize will

be awarded to group, fraternity,

sorority or individual accumulating highest number of points. Second

Prize will be awarded to group,

fraternity sorority or individual

accumulating the second highest number of points.

RULES: 1, Contest open to all

students. 2, Each empty package

submitted on Parliament or Alphine will have a value of 5 points.
Each empty package submitted on Philip Morris Regular or Com-
mander will have a value of 10 points, Each package submitted on
Marlboro will have a value of 1 point. 3. Closing date—December 6th,
5 p.m. Turn in wrappers to Ronnie King located at the University

Supply Store (prizes on display). 4.

Entries will not be accepted after

closing time. Empty packages must be submitted in Bundles of 50.
Separate your 5 and 10 point packages.

Get on the BRANDWAGON ... it’s lots of fun!

 

 

a
Morris

vt ‘N

Al pine

 

The second half was all Washing-
ton and Lee as the offense and de-
fense took turns sharing the glory.

W&L’s brick wall defense repelled
E&H drives at the W&L 5, 32, 39,
and 48-yard lines.

Meanwhile, the Generals’ offense
rolled long distances for two touch-
downs.

Fullback Doug Martin’s one-
yard plunge ended a 60-yard
march in the third period and
halfback Dave Tharp’s one-yard
drive climaxed a 52-yard drive
in the final period.

Martin, halfback Jim Hickey, and
sophomore standout Stu Yoffe took
turns slashing through the Wasps’
defense in the third-period march.

Yoffe started the jaunt when he
took a Hughes’ punt on the W&L
five and dashed back to the W&L 40
where the last E&H defender be-
tween him and the goal line pulled
him down.

Yoffe carried the ball three times
during the drive, twice twisting
and stiff arming his way to two
needed first downs. He picked up

19 yards in the drive

But Martin and Hickey ripped off
the long, spectacular runs Hickey,
the “South Boston flash,” raced 19
yards down the left sidelines for a
first down at the 26 and Martin drove
16 yards on a draw play to the one.

Yoffe and Keesee were the big
guns in the fourth period excursion.
Yoffe ate up 15 yards in two carries
and Keesee ground out 23 yards in
five tries.

Fohs played another outstanding
game on defense. The “tiny” package
of might made 19 tackles, several of
which would have resulted in E&H
touchdowns had he missed them.

E&H

Scoring summary:

W&L—Keesee, 10 run (Gummey
run)
E&H—Magill, 79 punt return (pass
failed)

W&L—Payne, 30 run with block-
ed punt (kick failed)

W&L—Martin, 1 plunge ((Russ
kick)

W&L—Tharp, 1 plunge (run
failed)

 

 

 

   

On Campus tina

(Author of 1 Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many

    
 

Loves of Dobie 2 Gillis”, etc.)

 

HUSBANDS, ANYONE?

It has been alleged that coeds go to college for the sole purpose
of finding husbands. This is, of course, an infamous canard, and
I give fair warning that, small and spongy as I am, anybody
who says such a dastardly thing when I am around had better
be prepared for a sound thrashing!

Girls go to college for precisely the same reasons as men do:
to broaden their horizons, to lengthen their vistas, to drink at
the fount of wisdom. But, if, by pure chance, while a girl is
engaged in these meritorious pursuits, a likely looking husband
should pop into view, why, what’s wrong with that? Eh? What’s
wrong with that?

The question now arises, what should a girl look for in a
husband. A great deal has been written on this subject. Some
say character is most important, some say background, some
say appearance, some say education. All are wrong.

The most important thing—bar none—in a husband is health.
Though he be handsome as Apollo and rich as Midas, what good
is he if he just lays around all day accumulating bedsores?

The very first thing to do upon meeting a man is to make
sure he is sound of wind and limb. Before he has a chance to
sweet-talk you, slap a thermometer in his mouth, roll back his
eyelids, yank out his tongue, rap his patella, palpate his thorax,
ask him to straighten out a horseshoe with his teeth. If he fails
these simple tests, phone for an ambulance and go on to the
next prospect.

If, however, he turns out to be physically fit, proceed to the
second most important requirement in a husband. I refer to a
sense of humor.

A man who can’t take a joke is a man to be avoided. There
are several simple tests to find out whether your prospect can
take a joke or not. You can, for example, slash his tires. Or burn
his “Mad” comics. Or steal his switchblade. Or turn loose his
pet raccoon. Or shave his head.

After each of these good-natured pranks, laugh gaily and
shout “April Fool! If he replies, “But this is February nine-
teenth,” or something equally churlish, cross him off your list
and give thanks you found out in time.

But if he laughs silverly and calls you “Little Minx!” put
him to the next test. Find out whether he is kindly.

 

Wat sboalfton/ Vena eid ?

The quickest way to ascertain his kindliness is, of course, to
look at the cigarette he smokes. Is it mild? Is it clement? Is it
humane? Does it minister tenderly to the psyche? Does it
coddle the synapses? Is it a good companion? Is it genial? Is
it bright and friendly and filtered and full of dulcet pleasure
from cockcrow till the heart of darkness?

Is it, in short, Marlboro?

If Marlboro it be, then clasp the man to your bosom with
hoops of steel, for you may be sure that he is kindly as a sum-
mer breeze, kindly as a mother’s kiss, kindly to his very marrow.

And now, having found a man who is kindly and healthy
and blessed with a sense of humor, the only thing that remains
is to make sure he will always earn a handsome living. That,
fortunately, is easy. Just enroll him in engineering.

© 1961 Max Shulman
* * -

Joining Marlboro in bringing you this column throughout
the school year is another fine product from the same
makers—the king-size, unfiltered Philip Morris Commander.
Here is pure, clean smoking pleasure. Try a pack. You’ll be
welcome aboard!
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BY DON WALLIS
Assistant Sports Editor

Of all the many “popular images” prevalent today, the one iden-
tified with Madison Avenue—referring to the vast world of advertis-
ing and mass media—is certainly the most vivid.

One is generally considered to be Madison Avenue if he (1) wears
his Ivy League clothing in various states of casualness, and (2)
approaches the world with an all-wise, “Yes-I-know-all-about-it”
attitude (which may also be termed “Ivy League”).

A young man named Walter Bingham fits perfectly into this
Madison Avenue pattern, as well he should—he is, in fact Madison
Avenue, being one of eight associate editors for the highly-regarded
Sports Illustrated magazine. It might even be said that Mr. Bing-
ham goes Madison Avenue one step better—he wears his Ivy League
clothes (complete with red and black pin-striped, button-down
shirt) not so much casually as in a state of slovenly disarray (ex-
amples: half-knotted knit tie, unpressed suit, unlaced cordovans,
and, also, uncombed hair).

All this would be irrelevant here, except for Bingham’s boss, a
man reproached last year by W&L publicity man Frank Parsons for
an SI article condemning non-subsidizations as a collegiate athletic
program. The boss sent Bingham to the W&L campus in search of an
article for this week’s edition, and Mr. B—who, incidentally, bears a
striking resemblance to W&L student Paul Clemenceau and, as
football player Ed Croft pointed out, to “a blond-haired Montgomery
Cliff’—was here Thursday and Friday. A Sports Illustrated photog-
rapher covered the Emory and Henry game Saturday afternoon.

During his two-day stay here, Bingham chatted with several uni-
versity figures and coaches, lunched at the Delt house, enjoyed a
small party at Coach Lee MacLaughlin’s home, forming his general
impressions of W&L’s athletic policy in this informal manner.

“I’m mainly going to write about the history of the last ten years—
from the time of the real good teams, through the de-emphasis, to
the present unbeaten teams. My style is not to offer an opinion; I
won't say that I think it’s a great system, or that it is a mistake.
I'll just use a few quotes to bring out each side,” Bingham told us.

“T think I’ll try and make it more interesting with a light, humor-
ous approach. For example, one of the coaches told me that during
the first years of transition, Coach Boyd Williams welcomed a group
of candidates to the opening practice, and yelled ‘All of you boys
out for end, follow me!’ Williams turned and jogged down to the
other end of the field, then turned around to talk with his ends—
and saw just one boy, a little fellow panting for breath.”

We asked about the chances of his article being published. “I'm
glad you asked that. Several people here have said to me that they
are glad I’m here so the magazine will tell how good the system is
at Washington and Lee. Actually, the article may not be published
at all, as is the case with many articles. In fact, the editor who sug-
gested this story is in the hospital and won’t be working this week,
so I'd say there is a good chance that the story won’t get in print.”

Bingham, an extremely frank and candid man, summed his
personal impressions thusly: When I first was assigned to come
down here, they told me to ‘go down and take a look.’ I was pretty
skeptical about the whole deal. Let’s face it, this isn’t exactly a world-
shaking story here. It’s one where I will have to work pretty hard
to make interesting to all our readers.... But, after being here and
seeing what has been done and what is being done at Washington
and Lee—Well I think I may have something for a fairly adequate
article.”

This statement, on its face, is quite non-commital. But coming
from dour, cynical Walter Bingham, it assumes a somewhat different
meaning. It’s even safe to say, perhaps, that the Madison Avenue pro
was impressed—reluctantly impressed, it seemed—with the amateur
approach to athletics. Or rather, the Washington and Lee approach.

Ba ke

 

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

 

 

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

PPNOBART 23474" TUE.-WED.
a
oonb Guin Genet ovcerceuarrs PP HAPPENED

IN BROAD DAYLIGHT

een emit

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

PAUL NEWMAN aise Dring eRe
soann® WOODWARD
SIDNEY POITIER
oe Ee
“Ponta THE NEW

 

White Top
Restaurant
*

fa) AUDREY
>) HEPBURN |

BA 83 .
; sin
___ glitter |

   
   

     
    

ms

A personal invitation

% oO the
BREAKFAST sede
AT "TIFFANYS Try our delicious foods
APARAMOUNT RELEASE
Route 60 East

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEE eee Sebo e pbb hee heed bbheebbeteteeteee ees

 

 

You will find this bank a pleasant place
to transact your banking business.

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.

Merde sherhe nfo eho ole ode fe ne ole ofe ole ode ae oe ole ne ake oleae fe fe ae afr of fe ae aie oe ofr fe ae afe ofa none

 

Troub Play
Is Delightful

(Continued from page 2)
with characteristic cynicism and
cigar,

Steve Colvin plays a young British
actor, Rodney Bevan, who can’t act,
but who manages to get into trouble
at every encounter. Yvonne Dickens
does a fine characterization of Miss
Crews, C. F.’s secretary, and Lisa
Tracy is equally good as Peggy, the
manicurist. The other roles, Wanda
Johnson as the nurse, Tom Hamp-
ton as the doctor, Charlie Bright
as the chauffeur, Frank Morgan
as the young man, Tim O’Keefe as
the studio policeman, Terry Van
Brunt as the Cutter, and Phil Sif-
fing as Major Thomson, are all well-
east and well-played.

Much credit goes to the cast and
crew, especially to the director, Dr.
Cecil D. Jones, of Boy Meets Girl
for the satirical comic opener of this
year’s Troubadour season.

 

Come on you guys—pick up some
dolls and join the Lynchburg Jun-
ior Woman’s Club Guys and Dolls.
Presented at E. C. Glass High
School auditorium. Curtain, 8:30 p.m.
Friday, Nov. 3rd and Saturday,
November 4th.
Prices—$1.50-$2.00-$2.50—all
served.

New York directed, staged and
choreographed..

For tickets, write or call collect
to Victor 6-7067, Mrs. Rosenthal.
Tickets can be picked up at the box
office.

This is the closest spot to Broad-
way this side of the Mason-Dixon
Line.
eeecceecececsoeseeoeesese
Se oe oe ole ole ole oe oe ole oe oe ok ole ke of ole ok ohe ote ole oe ote feos

THE DUTCH INN?

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

Té=-

 

Melee heehee

:
:

 

: IDEAL :
> BARBER SHOP :
: QUICK SERVICE :

 

1050 Parents Visit Here
For Annual Weekend

(Continued from page one)
also gave reports which briefly in-
terpretated their work in the admin-
istration. President Cole closed the
program by pointing out some of
the benefits the university bestowed
on its students.

The climax of the weekend was
the Glee Club Concert in Doremus
Gymnasium. Under the direction of
Dr. Robert Stewart the group sang
a varied selection of songs; among
them were “Good Fellows Be Mer-
ry.” “Roll, Jordon, Roll,” and “Fall-
ing in Love with Love.” Highlight-
ing the performance were the solos
given by Dan Manson, Sam Channell,
and John Parker. Also featured in
the concert was the John A. Graham
Brass Choir, who played “Sonata
No. 2,” “Sonata Pian e Forte,” and
“Fantasy on Old Hundredth.”

NOTICE

The deadline for entries in the
Calyx beauty contest has been ex-
tended to November 10. Entries
should be in the form of 7 by 9
black and white glossy prints, and
should include the name and ad-
dress of the contestant as well as
those of the person entering the
picture. They may be turned in to
either Joe Goldstein or Pete Age-
lasto.

Goldstein will announce the name
of the celebrity who will judge the
pictures.

 

22 Named To Who’s Who

(Continued from page 1)

tramurals; assosiate editor of Law
Review; president Phi Alpha Delta;
vice-president 4th District Ameri-
can Student Law Association.

Stephen Hungate Suttle, Delta Tau
Delta senior from Uvalde, Texas;
secretary of student body; football
tri-captain; president of Delta Tau
Delta; lacrosse; Dean’s List.

John Wesley Vardaman, Jr., Sig-
ma Nu senior from Anniston, Ala-
bama; president of Finals Dances;
captain of golf team; Dean’s List,
Honor Roll.

Robert Cornelius Wood, Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon from Lynchburg, Va.;

business manager of Calyx; football;
baseball; Varsity Club; Dean’s List.

 

Notice

People who have been nominated
for Who's Who will have their pic-
ture taken tomorrow at five o’clock
in the Student Union.

Anyone who wishes to get his
Openings Dance drawing may get it
at 7 pm. tonight in the Gym.

 

SE ete eee ode rde ode ode abe ode ode fe ofe fe ote ote feof agente

%
x
%
ed

ht

CHILDREN’S

CORNER
Corner Main and Washington

*
+
+
=
+
=
=
eesti ote obeteteoteteceotesdeteotetestetetent

 

 

NEW TOWN INN
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

COCCCCCESECEESESOOOOOESES
FOtO+4464454444400048044

Dodge and Dodge Dart
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146
4
Meee eee ollie

 

ate stte Beste sete Beate ae ate atte athe ate atte ae ste ata ate.
ee ae ae ae Mat Mae Te Mae Mat MaRS Tage ae age Ma a a a a

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813, 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

Che Bing-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday durin e college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
ory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.

National Advertising Service
60 E. Street
New York 22, New York

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
maton. a., under the act of March

Taner... Robert Roy Goodwin, II
Business Manager.............. Peter Agelasto

Editorial Board
MAMAMINE BAO. cos sescissssssioens Andy Nea
Asst. ones Editor........ John Allgood
Executive News Editor........ Steve Guild

   

NOWS BGG? oc cccsusians Julian Markham
Sports Wor rsscccccscssescsccseconsess Peter Alford
Associate Editors................ Cc. C. Flippen,

Tom Lybass, Tom Edwards,
Bill Bowen, Ken Lane
Copy Editors............... Whit Fitzpatrick,
Jack DeJarnette
Columnists................ Thorns Craven, Dave
Knight, Robert C. Ketcham,
George Honts
Walt McManus.
Wes Pipes

  

Advertising
Circulation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
x

Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service
*

HO 3-3531
14 South Randolph

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS!
Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

Southern Inn

 

 

 

Tareyton delivers

a

 
 

 

 

 

pleaser.

Romana!”

 

Morbo she fore ofe efeahe fe afeofe oe ne ole ne oe neo oe ne of near sfe ae ofe oe oe oe ae ole oe ole ole feo she ae oe

feof feof feos ofeofeoefe oder ogoteofeoeoerfee feo te tented sent ote oteobeteogeeteofeobeeofeoe

%

 

“Tareyton’s Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!”
says Publius (Boom-Boom) Aurelius, Coliseum crowd-

Says Boom-Boom, ‘“‘Tareyton is one filter cigarette that
really delivers de gustibus. Legions of smokers are switching.
Try a couple of packs of Tareytons. They’re the packs

the flavor...

PURE WHITE
OUTER FILTER

DUAL FILTER

  
     
  

ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
ha —_sINNER FILTER:

 

Tarevion

Product of ol hsien Sabacer Company — Jobaceo is our middle name. OAT.
