TUESDAY
Edition

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Che KRing-tum Phi

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXII

Apathy And Politics
Were Main Topics

At Editors’ Meeting

By ROY GOODWIN
Editor-in-Chief

“...I’ve never seen or talked to a Southerner. I want to hear
your views on the integration problem. Why do you people from the
South discriminate against the Negro?”

“If I were in Europe and I wanted to get away from the problems
of the world, I would go to a convent. If I were in America and I
wanted to get away from the problems of the world, I would go to
the American college campus....”

Such statements as the above are characteristic of the topics dis-
cussed at a newspaper editors’ conference held this past weekend
at Hamilton College in Clinton, N. Y.

Attending the conference were editors of college newspapers
located in the East and members of the United Nations Foreign Press
Corps. The theme of the two-day event was “Assignment: The Amer-
ican Student.”

Thirty colleges and universities were represented at the meeting,
and 32 foreign correspondents from 20 countries flew to the Ham-
ilton campus from the United Nations.

Bill Roberts, the Friday Edition’s editor, and I had the oportunity
to attend this conference, and I can say, for my part, that it proved
most interesting.

Since we were the only two delegates from the South, we were
prime targets for questions concerning segregation that came from
the student editors.

Student Apathy Is Main Question

The foreign correspondents wanted to get information on the
American college student, and the main question that they posed
concerned apathy and national politics.

A public symposium was held one evening on the subject and the
topic was “The Student: Observer or Participant in a Revolutionary
World.” Editor Roberts served on this ten-man panel, five panel
members being students and five being foreign correspondents. Mod-
erator of this discussion was John B. Oakes, editorial page editor of
the New York Times.

Is Rioting the Answer?

Reasoning that much of American student’s apathy could be
traced to a dormant college press, it seemed to be a good number of
the students’ opinion that the “riot” was an answer to the apathy
problem.

“One way for the American student to be a direct participant
in America political affairs is to riot,” said one editor.

George N. Fenin, a correspondent from Italy, said that he thought
the student should definitely be a participant in political affairs.

One of the Polish reporters added that everybody should be in-
volved in world affairs. He said that a riot is an abnormal way of
expression. “Something is at the boiling point,” he continued, “the
student should not have to wait for this point.”

Indian Correspondent Easwar Sagar said that the student must
be involved politically. “No student,” he said, “can be a truly edu-
cated man and remain politically passive.”

When asked why he thought the American student tended to be
unconcerned with the world’s affairs, Sagar added that Americans are
“too satisfied.”

Speaking of recent student riots in India, Sagar said that the
events of the modern world concern his country directly. Perhaps,
he said, because you won your independence many years ago you feel
that there is no need for your active participation. “This feeling is
wrong,” he said, “and should be changed.”

European Convent and American Campus Compared

Denouncing the colleges in America for no active participation,
Miss Marcelle Hitschmann of Parkistan said that “if I wanted to get
away from it all in Europe I would go to a convent. If I wanted to get
away from it in America,” she continued, “I would go to the college
campus.”

Many opinions as to how to avoid and rid American colleges of
this political apathy were discussed. Some of the panalists urged the
riots, and such measures as the sending of a “freedom rider” into
the South.

Other degelates expressed the thought that the answer could be
found in getting the student to align himself with campus political
clubs. Many students expressed the opinion that political clubs on
their campuses were kept from being too active by university trustees
who didn’t want to see their colleges become the objects of national
publicity due to rioting, etc.

It was further expressed that these clubs’ infiuence is being held
down because various colleges don’t want to become known as being
“political” colleges representing this philosophy or that political idea.

Confronted with the idea that the trustees may try and suppress
college publications, many editors and correspondents urged delegates
to “stick their necks out.”

Segregation and Intergration Discussed

When asked what the major theme of Soviet propaganda was, the
correspondents nearly all expressed the view that American segrega-
tion was the content.

Since the above may be true, Bill and I were deluged with ques-
tions as to why the South had not yet integrated all her schools.

“... I’ve never seen or talked to a Southerner. I want to know why
you people discriminate against the Negro when it hurts us abroad
so,” was one female delegate’s query of me.

Many of the editors asked me why integration couldn’t be put
into effect immediately.

Many students thought that the South should be forced to inte-
grate its schools as soon as possible.

Speaking for myself, I can say that after hearing our views, I
hope that some of them can now see our point about this problem.
Both Bill and I urged them to give the South time to work out this
problem.

“You can’t change a sociological problem overnight,” one delegate
was told.

Became Objects of Ridicule

One delegate thought that she would be clever and would scorn
me for being a Southerner.

“How y'all from the South tonite, honey chile?” she directed at
me in her most sarcastic tones.

Since Bill and I both represent what I would call a “conservative”
point of view, many of the questions on the panels were directed
specifically at us.

When Bill was a member of the panel discussion directed by Mr.
Oakes of the Times, several students seemed to realize that he was in

(Continued on page four)

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 24, 1961

 

Contestants Anderson, Campbell, Lowry,

 

and Lybass.

Number 10

inal Quiz Bow! Team Picked

Upperclassmen Represent School

In National TV College Quiz

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Managing Editor

Tom Lybass, Bill Lowry, Jim Campbell, and Rick Ander-

son will compose Washington a

nd Lee‘s team of varsity schol-

ars which will appear on the General Electric Quiz Bowl No-

vember 12.
Rusty McNab is first alte
second alternate.

Presidential assistant Frank
Monday after what he termed “a*

rnate and Thorns Craven is

Parsons announced the team

 

very difficult decision in trying to
select the four best qualified stu-
dents.”

Parsons, who handled all the elim-
inations for the team, will also serve
as its coach.

Opponent

W&L’s potential opponent has
been narrowed to Pomona College,
Claremont, California, the current
champ; Hood College, Frederick,
Maryland; or Amherst College, Am-
herst, Massachusetts.

If the W&L team wins its first
match, its next opponent would
be the University of North Dakota.

A team is allowed to participate
on the program five times. If it is

 

Concert Guild

Features Opera

The Turnau Company will open
the Rockbridge Concert Guild’s
series of presentations tomorrow
evening at the Waddell School with
its performance of the Mozart opera,
“Cosi Fan Tutte.”

Season tickets are still available
and may be purchased at the door
at the student discount price of $7.

The four concerts in the series
to be presented are the Mozart
opera, the famous New York Brass
Quintet, the National Symphony
Orchestra, and the Netherlands
Chamber Choir. Tomorrow night
“Cosi Fan Tutte,” often deemed by

 

Opera Company Here Wednesday

social critics as being sordid and
offensive, will be done in English to
be better appreciated by American
audiences.

The New York Brass Quintet is a
group of artists who provide a high
degree of musical stimulation to
their audiences.

The National Symphony Orchestra,
which has been accorded numerous
honors and is in great demand in
the musical world will play here
during one of their country-wide
tours.

 

Page, Rutledge Approved
For Rhodes Applications

Washington and Lee University’s
faculty has endorsed two seniors
as candidates for Rhodes Scholar-
ships at Oxford University in Eng-
land.

The two honor students are Rose-
well Page, Beaver Dam, Va.; and
Stephen W. Rutledge, Seattle,
Wash. Page will receive a B.A. de-
gree and Rutledge will obtain a
B.S. in Commerce in June.

They will compete in December
with top students from other Amer-
ican colleges and universities for a
limited number of Rhodes grants.
Before the Rhodes administrators
will consider a candidate for one of
the awards, he first must be endorsed

 

by the faculty of his undergraduate
institution.

 

Magazine To Feature
W&L Athletic Policy

BY JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Managing Editor

Washington and Lee, for many years a bad word in col-
lege athletic circles, is moving back into the national spotlight.
Not since 1951 when the Generals traveled to the Gator

Bowl, has W&L received any

scorn. *

What has brought Washington and
Lee, a school which plays only ama-
teur football, into the national spot-
light again?

Many things, including 14 straight
games without a loss; but most of
all—an amateur athletic policy that
really works and that receives the
full support of the student body,
faculty, and alumni.

Walter Bingham, an associate
editor of Sports Mlustrated, will
visit the W&L campus this Thurs-
day, Friday, and Saturday to do
a feature story of the success of
amateur athletics at W&L and
the vigorous support of the pro-
gram.

This article will be an outgrowth
of an article about Johns Hopkins’
amateur football program which ap-
peared in Sports Illustrated last
year.

That article implied that while
amateur football had done well at
Johns Hopkins, there was no support

sort of national notice except

 

implied that an amateur athletic pro-
gram could not have strong sup-
port anywhere.

Sports Illustrated was immediately
beseiged with a flow of letters from
other schools with amateur athletic
programs, W&L being one, stating
tha there could be support and en-
thusiasm behind amateur athletics.

The editors of Sports Illustrated
decided to present the “other side”
of amateur athletics and chose
Washington and Lee as the typical
example.

When Washington and Lee’s Board
of Trustees decided to abolish sub-
sidized athletics, they drew much
criticism from students, alumni, and
friends.

It was a long, hard climb, but
Washington and Lee’s athletic pro-
gram has finally reached the sum-
mit. Amateur athletics are a success.

The football story is one of riches
to rags to riches, from the 1950 Gator
Bowl team to the dismal teams of
1955-57 to the present undefeated

 

 

for the program there. It further

squad of Coach Lee McLaughlin.

undefeated at the end of its fifth
appearance, it retires. On each pro-
gram the winner receives a $1,500
scholarship grant and the loser, a
$500 grant.

Team Members

The team represents all three of
the university’s upper classes. Lybass
is a sophomore from Jacksonville,
Florida; Lowry, from Hobbs, New
Mexico, and Campbell, from St.
Petersburg, Florida, are both jun-
iors; and Anderson, from Startex,
South Carolina, is a senior. All four
are non-fraternity men.

Both alternates, McNab and Craven
are seniors. McNab, a Lambda Chi, is
from Cranford, New Jersey; and
Craven, a Sigma Nu, is from Con-
cord, North Carolina.

Training

Intensive training and coaching,
especially on the use of the buzzers
for answering questions, will be-
gin immediately.

“It is very necessary that the
team members hit the buzzer
quickly and let you know they’ve
hit it,’ Parsons said. “On the radio
show they still tended to raise
their hands.”

Parsons has installed buzzers in
his outer office in Washington Hall
to train the team.

Huddling to answer the bonus
questions is another phase of the
game the team will work on inten-
sively.

“When Pomona has a bonus ques-
tion all the team members imme-
diately turn toward the captain and
whisper the answer. He then gives
his approval and they answer. All
this is done very quickly. This is
the technique we want to use,”
Parsons emphasized.

Outside Help

W&L’s team of varsity scholars
will receive aid in their study from
several sources.

One is very unusual. Dr. Charles
F. Phillips, Sr., the president of
Bates College, which participated
on the Quiz Bowl successfully last
year, was recently in Lexington
and gave his son Dr. Charles F.
Phillips, Jr., an assistant professor
of economics at W&L, some tips for
the Quiz Bow! team. Professor Phil-
lips will assist Parsons in coaching
W&L’s team.

TKA Meet Features Debate

By C. C. FLIPPEN
Associate Editor
Washington and Lee freshmen
proved to have the winning combi-
nation as they carried off top honors

in the debate and discussion activ-
ities of the forensic tournament
here Friday.

The tournament, in which 36 per-
sons from four Virginia colleges took
part, was part of activities which saw
the initiation of the newly formed
W&L Chapter of Tau Kappa Alpha,

 

the honorary forensic and debate| @

Later that evening six students
were initiated as charter members
of the organization. They are: Bill
Boardman, who was named presi-
dent; Bill Noell, vice president; Al
Dick McEnally,
historian;

Eckes, secretary;
treasurer; Dick Kelley,

and John Harcourt, manager.

Receiving honorary membership
were: three spring graduates, Wil-
liam Bice, George Birdsong and Pete
Straub; and two members of the
faculty, Dr. Ross Borden and William
W. Chaffin.

 

fraternity. | = 4

The freshman affirmative team of! §
j

Gay Reading and Tim Vandiver |
took first place over the “crack”
debate team from the University of

Richmond. Steve Smith and Malcolm | |

Morris debated the negative side
Another freshman, Phil
tied for first place honors in the
discussion activities, compiling 445
points. Bridgewater student Richard
Harmon, tied him.
Following the tournament compe-

tition, a banquet was held at which
Dr. Edgar MacDonald, head of the
speech department at Randolph-
Macon and district governor of Tau
Kappa Alpha presented the charter

to W&L. Dr. William W. Pusey ac- |

cepted the charter. |

Oliver, | ;

Vy)

si y

uf

   

New Members of Tau Kappa Alpha Debating Fraternity

Discuss Initiation.
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

   

Scenic

 

ce

KRing-tum Phi

Che

 

Banning Dr. King Violates Two University Principles

In refusing the University Christian Association’s re-
quest to have Dr. Martin Luther King speak, The Board of
Trustees has violated two fundamental principles of this
school.

The Washington and Lee Catalogue in defining the as-
pirations of the University states: ‘This University, subject
to no type of political control whatever, is none the less dedi-
cated to the democratic form... of social organization; to
the ancient freedoms and particularly to the liberty of the
mind with its attendant right of inquiry.’’ The catalogue con-
tinues, “The other enduring adherence of this University
is declared in the first by-law of its official regulations, first
in importance, as well as in time, which affirms that while
sectarian domination in this school is prohibited, ‘the obliga-
tion to inculcate the Christian ideal is hereby acknow-
ledged’.”

If the Board had adhered to the “‘principles” of the Uni-
versity, Dr. Martin Luther King would be allowed to appear
and to speak on this campus. Instead, the request to have him
lead a seminar sponsored by the UCA has been denied,
without reason.

Earlier this month the student Executive Committee of
the UCA voted, subject to the approval of the Faculty
Committee on Christian Work, to invite the controversial
Negro minister to the campus. Dr. King was to lead a semi-

The Faculty Committee discussed the question and voted
to recommend to President Cole and the Board of Trustees
that the student group be allowed to invite Dr. King to lead
the seminar.

This seminar was to be one of a series sponsored by the
UCA this year. The student organization had planned to
have a group of noted theologians to the campus in an at-
tempt to stimulate Christian ideas. The program was to take
the place of ‘Religious Emphasis Week.”’ The UCA felt that
such a program would develop a greater interest among the
student body. Quite obviously, their program has been given
a bad start by the Board of Trustees.

Washington and Lee has been praised as a “leading
liberal arts college.”” This is now highly inaccurate as evi-
denced by the actions of our Board of Trustees. How can
one obtain a liberal education when only one side of an argu-
ment is allowed to be presented? Our Board of Trustees has
denied us the privilege and the right of intellectual inquiry.

Admittedly Dr. King is the center of much controversy.
However, we have been allowed to hear the views of Colin
Wilson, Norman Thomas, and Barry Goldwater. Is Dr.
King any different?

We think that the decision to have Dr. King should not
have gone to the Board of Trustees in the first place. The
decision should have been left to the Faculty Committee and

precedent. Now, each controversial figure must seek the
Trustees’ approval before being allowed to speak on this
campus.

Dr. King is recognized as an authority in the field of
race relations. He holds a Doctor of Divinity degree from
Boston University. Furthermore, he has published several
books and numerous magazine articles on the subject. His
program of “passive resistance’ has spread throughout the
nation in the area of racial problems. Why is it that we are
denied the right to hear his views?

Is it because there is fear of bad conduct on the part of
the student body? Or, is it that the Board is afraid of the
unfavorable publicity that might be caused? In either case,
we feel that the fears are most unfounded. Washington and
Lee prides itself on the conduct of its gentlemen. Is there
any reason to believe that they will not continue to conduct
themselves in such a manner? Also we feel that the only pub-
licity that can arise now will be bad. With much being written
and said about racial problems and prejudice, Washington
and Lee could become a target of unfavorable criticism and
abuse. This is not what we want for our University.

We sincerely regret that the Board of Trustees has de-
nied us “freedom of inquiry.” It is our profound hope that
this action is not an indication of things to come.

—G. A.N.

SS

nar on “Christian Ethics and Non-Violent Race Relations.”

Dr. Cole. The Board’s action probably has established a

SR Seas ee

    

 

 

Shamefully, Decision Stands;
King Ban Denies Free Inquiry

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM
Tuesday Columnist

It seems as though The Board
gave students a glimpse of their
back-side thinking in their decision
on Dr. King.

Through any other channel the
decision could at least be aired; but
no buck passing
here, “the issue of
inviting Dr. King
under the auspices

of the UCA is
closed.”
And a_ good

thing too, for who
would question
that body of men
which rises above
criticism. And
busy persons they
are for they vest
in themselves the right to control the
thinking on the campus as well as
the mere matter of hiring presidents
and paying teachers.

 

Ketcham

 

Lament, lament for the old days
before man created such boards,
when the students paid their own
professor and if he was not their
kind of apple he was either not paid
for or bruised.

The situation today in re-educa-
tion is so vast and spread out that
the former approach is hardly pos-
sible. However, the idea remains
and is good.

The great filtering process is a
poor way to come by an education.
Not that creating trustees to han-
dle and manage the university
presupposes such a process; but
simply that in our case a man-tank
has been substituted for a trust.

The preceding thought is not to
say that the How of The Decision
is most important, but rather the
Why. Why do these men feel that
banning a speaker is the proper ap-
approach? This raises the question,
where were these men educated?

 

Hollywood Turns Indian Dance
Into New Version Of Twist

By TOM GOAR
Tuesday Columnist

A few months ago, I had to write a report on the fertility
dances of the Karahooche Indians of Winnemucca, Nevada, for
my Cowboys and Indians course. So I settled down to do some

heavy research at the Lyric.

Sure enough, what should greet my*

eyes at the very beginning of the |
Rory Calhoun flick but a fertility |
dance of the Karahooche Indians
of Winnemucca, Nevada. |

 

Needless to say my report snow-
ed the professor. So much, in fact
that he suggested that I contri-

(Continued on age 4)

 

Oh blessed naivete if education is
for the purpose of force-feeding pre-
judice. Nor is Webster helpful in
this connection for he does not un-
derscore the importance of inquiry
in his definition of education.

Suffice it to say that if those
decision makers in toto or in part
attended Washington and Lee for
education I can only ask, what hap-
pened?

Even without analysis of personal
reasons in their reasoning the de-
cision cuts deep. Friday’s editorial
was succinctly correct when it stated

 

that “its refusal ...has seriously vio-
lated the rights of the student body
of this University—a University sup-
posedly dedicated to the spirit of
free inquiry.” The decision is a great
affront to each and every intellect
on this campus.

As students we are in this en-
vironment to understand, to learn,
and to evaluate. To ban the req-
quest for a speaker is no different
than to ban the reading of a cer-
tain book.

(Continued on page four)

 

 

  

   
 
   
   
   
   

ri
WERE A
GORILLA
LIVING IN THE
JUNGLE, I
WOULDN'T
HAVE TO

WALK...

   
 

 

IF I WANTED TO GO SOMEPLACE,
I'D LEAP INTO A TREE, AND
SWING FROM BRANCH 10 BRANCH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Does W&L Encourage Students To Think?

By THORNS CRAVEN
Tuesday Columnist
This week’s problem for a column was originally something to
say about “Operation Abolition,” and all the goings-on that went on.

Friday’s little announcement seems to have changed that. “Oper-
ation Abolition” certainly affects us all, but we do have something
now that strikes a little closer to home.

   

Craven

I’ve always considered the Board of Trustees
to be the group that carries on the business of the
University. They have their meetings, and we
have ours, and sometimes we use the same build-
ings. But now it seems that I was mistaken. A
problem has come up which affects both the
Student Body and the Board of Trustees, and
both our spheres of influence.

It seems to me that the Board has lost some
of its dignity—sort of like the Statue of Liberty
dropping her torch. In making a decision which
contradicts the spirit of this University, and, I

believe, the spirit of the Board of Trustees,
both groups are made to look a little silly.

Their decision was for me a personal insult to my intelligence
and to the ability of the student body to exercise mature judgment
when faced with a current problem.

I realize that this has been said in other columns, and is being

Clean Shirt, Clean Shave Designates
Non-Conformist At London School

By ED WEBSTER
Tuesday Columnist

LONDON, Oct. 15—I believe I
am the second W&L graduate to
try for a higher degree at the Lon-
don School of Economics and Po-
litical Science; the first, Bob Banks,
is about to complete his Ph.D.
thesis in labor economics.

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.

National Advertising Service
60 E. 50th Street
New York 22, New York

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878.

ROR OR vseccetsteccess Robert Roy Goodwin, II
Business Managev............. Peter Agelasto

 

 

Editorial Board
Managing EGItoT............c0e And
Asst. Managing Editor........J
Executive News Editor........ Steve Guild

  

For shoulder-rubbing with wide-
awake experts in the social sciences,
and a terrifyingly complete library,
LSE is the place to come.

But for any other Minks who
may wish to exchange the raven
of W&L for the beaver of LSE, I
can attest: It will be quite a
change.

From a tree-shaded campus in a
lazy Shenandoah town, you will
come to two sooty stone buildings
on a crooked little street, just a few
yards away from some of the busiest
thoroughfares in this frenetic city.

LSE was organized in 1895 by
Sidney and Beatrice Webb, a couple
of socialists who had been given a
large sum of money. The school
was finally placed on its present
site near Aldwych, in an already
congested area.

Subsequent additions, stuck on
the buildings in odd places, have
not been able to keep pace with

| the burgeoning student body. The

school is so crowded, in fact, that

 

I do not see how the leftists here
can retain a properly beneficent
outlook toward their fellow man.

Perhaps this is why a slight ma-
jority of the faculty professes con-
servatism.

Faculty members do a great deal
of publishing, but they admit freely
that many important works in so-
cial sciences are being done by
Americans. Incidentally, some of the
most learned and interesting lec-
turers have nothing more than bach-
elors’ degrees.

Each student is supposed to be
assigned to a faculty supervisor;
but, as the faculty is rather busy,
many first-year students are still
groping around on our own.
(School did not start until Oct. 4.)

All I do is go to 15 lectures and
seminars of my own choosing, and
read books suggested by the lectur-
ers. I do not really have to do any-
thing, of course, until July 1963,
when I must submit a bulky thesis
and pass an exam.

 

The school has very little dormi-
tory space, and most of us found
rooms on our own. I pay $13 a week
for a tiny place near Hyde Park. It
is far from luxurious, but if the
plumbing would just work proper-
ly I could be quite comfortable.

There are about 2700 regular stu-
dents here, perhaps 650 of who are
graduate students.

Almost 1000 of the regular stu-
dents are from abroad. Of these,
Asia sends about one-third, North
America sends one-fourth, and
Europe and Africa each send about
one-fifth.

Most of the African students have
adopted Western dress. The Indian
girls, however, still cling to their
silk saris, and vice-versa.

The school does have official
blazers, ties, and scarves, but few
students wear them. Indeed, there is
nothing approaching Conventional
Dress here, and a clean shirt and
clean shave makes one appear to be
a nonconformist.

said on the campus, and all over this page. I hope that the Board of

Trustees realize this.

We have trusted the Board of Trustees to carry on the busi-
ness of our University. We have thought that they have trusted us
to be affiliated with their University. Decisions of this sort destroy
this trust, and it destroys the opinion of the public where all the
agents of Washington and Lee are concerned.

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

Assimilation Committee Chairman Defends
Need For Committee and Conventional Dress

To the Editor:

In response to Friday’s editorial urging the abolition of
the Assimilation Committee, I feel obligated as chairman of
that organization and also as a proud member of this student
body to offer the case for the Assimilation Committee and for
the necessary perpetuation of its functions.

First, it takes a number of years*

for a university to become an ex-
ceptional institution and distinguish
itself among collegiate circles. The
traditions of conventional dress and
speaking first (along with, naturally,
the Honor System) have in no small
part contributed to Washington and
Lee’s recognition as a superior uni-
versity. Ours is an impressive uni-
versity, not only in its physical plant
and setting but also because of its
personnel. We have extraordinarily

capable professors who do an out- |

standing job of imparting knowledge.
Moreover, the administration seeks
to bring here men of above average
capabilities and to bring out their
best. The appearance we present to
visitors attests to our being “just
a little bit better”—would the editor
have this done away with? To do
away with the Assimilation Com-
mittee would virtually destroy in an
instant what has taken years to
build—Washington and Lee would
be reduced to the status of another
ordinary college.

Why is this so? Perhaps one
could attribute it to the idea of
“giving an inch and they'll take
a mile.” In the minds of many
including myself, the relaxation
of conventional dress would spread
quickly and with unpleasant ef-
fects. Ours would become a cam-

 

 

 

pus of “jeans and T-shirts.” The
author of Friday’s editorial would
question this. He says that one’s
fellow students would frown on
non-conventionality, and this mor-
al condemnation would replace the
assimilation Committee. This is
idealistic, and fine in theory, but
it won’t work. The simple fact that
one’s fellow students do not now
frown on the failure to wear a tie
or socks attests to my point—why
should this change without an As-
similation Committee?

The editor criticizes the Assimila-

| tion Committee for doing a lax job

as does the editor of Protest. Need
I remind these men that assimilation
is the job of the entire student body
(if they are proud enough of their
university) and not solely the job
of the thirteen men on the Assimi-
lation Committee? I can truthfully
say that there has been very little
help given to the Committee by the
student body in general and these
two men in particular. Yet, we are
the ones held to account. Can the
Executive Committee be in all places
at all times to observe infractions of
the Honor System? Of course not.
Yet the Assimilation Committee
must notice all violations of conven-
tional dress.

(Continued on page 4)
THE RING-TUM PHI

Generals Humble Hopkins

_ pcesnr at esnnenssesenaessssieenessiiasnsasnetensntaseesensessemanset: Git

Page 3

 

 

   

eas

Untouchables Romp 38-6 For
Fourth Victory In 1961 Season

   

 

IGENERAL COMMENT,

BY DON WALLIS
Assistant Sports Editor

One might reasonably excuse W&L football coach Lee McLaugh-
lin for feeling somewhat optimistic, even self-satisfied, over the
present state of his General gridiron system.

After all, coach Mac and his 45-Star Generals haven’t tasted de-
feat during the last two seasons and this year’s squad has crushed
its last three opponents by an average margin of 40-2 (40-0, 43-0,
38-6) and he has no personnel problems, with 45 players capable of
being used at any time during the game.

But coach Mac isn’t exactly walking on air. Indeed, the person-
able Mr. McLaughlin is actually a little dissatified with his team’s
performance—and a bit fearful of Saturday’s encounter against
Emory and Henry.

“I know it sounds paradoxical, in view of the scores of our last
three games,” he says. “But we really haven’t had the kind of sus-
tained drive I'd like to see. Sure, we had very little trouble beating
those last three teams—but in each game, they made an early mis-
take that made it easy for us to score.

“Take last Saturday’s game with Hopkins, for example. The first
time they had the ball, their pass from center was high and we re-
covered on their one-yard line. That’s an awfully good break. In
the Randolph-Macon game, they fumbled the kickoff and we got the
ball.

Well what is it that the Generals aren’t doing? Are they letting
down after grabbing the early lead?

McLaughlin says no. “Our spirit and aggressiveness—I call it
‘eagerness —has been great almost all of the time. But we have a
few offensive errors we have to iron out, I think, and some defensive
holes to plug. Not really major faults, but just things I’d like to
see done smoother. I’d like to see us work up a more powerful, a
more sustained drive.”

“Dan Blain’s punting was great. That average of a little over 41
yards per punt for six punts is pretty terrific, especially on that
wet field. I was impressed with Blain and with Jerry Hyatt’s work
in centering the ball back to him. They did a good job, and we'll need
that Saturday because Emory and Henry really likes to rush the
kicker. They'll send eight men charging in every time.”

“Our defense was good when it had to be. We let them move the
ball quite a bit around midfield and they got 14 first downs. But they
were inside our 30-yard line only once, and that was on a 40-yard
pass interference penalty.

“And we had a touchdown on a punt return by Henry Sackett
called back on a clipping penalty. It was a nice runback. Doug Mar-
tin looked good. On both those touchdown runs of Martin’s, we sent
him into the game specifically for those plays, then took him out
right afterwards. He scored both times.”

But McLaughlin veered back from his optimism, as if fearing such
an attitude may jinx the Generals’ fortunes. He leaned back in his
big chair and watched films showing Emory and Henry running
roughshod over one of the four teams they have beaten this season.

“Those boys really blasted Hampden-Sydney Saturday. Held
them to 23 yards rushing, or something like that. We’re going to have
to play a much better brand of ball. Or else this may be it.”

 

By DON WALLIS
Washington and Lee’s 5-Star Generals—or, more appro-
priately its 45-Star Generals—remain unscathed after another
60 minutes of gridiron warfare Saturday.
Four platoons saw combat action as the unbeaten charges
of Coach Lee McLaughlin swept to their fourth win of the sea-
son, a convincing 38-6 thumping of Johns Hopkins University.

*

Sports Star Of The Week

 

Tommy Keesee
Outstanding In
Hopkins Game

Spirited all around play against
John Hopkins Saturday by fullback
Tommy Keesee has earned for the
General fullback the “Sports Star of
the Week” award.

Coach Lee McLaughlin and his
staff announced the selection of
Keesee in what Coach Mac termed
“one of the toughest decisions I’ve
had to make about this award.”

McLaughlin cited the SAE junior
from Memphis, Tenn., for his
“savage blocking and fine faking,”
as well as for the ten points he
racked up on a touchdown and a
pair of conversions.

Others Praised

The W&L head mentor also
praised end Dan Blain for his ex-
cellent punting performance and
linemen Tommy Goodwin, John
Madison, Phil McCaleb, Bob Payne
and Terry Fohs for general excel-
lence on defense.

Keesee, perhaps the hardest
runner on the undefeated Gen-
eral squad, is averaging over five
yards per carry this year. He
shares the fullback post with Doug
Martin.

The “Sports Star” award is not the
first recognition of Keesee. He was
named “Old Dominion Back of the
Week” by the Richmond Times-Dis-
patch for his efforts against Carnegie
Tech last year.

 

of Athletics comes the announce-
ment that all students who did
not get a copy of the Big Little
Date Book may pick up one at the
Athletic Office.

Notice

From the office of the Director

 

 

 

      

TL
SF =
Wn

     

 

 

 

 

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP
QUICK SERVICE

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons

The
COLLEGE TOWN

Shop
Student Charge Accounts

STUDENTS!
Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

Southern Inn

 

   

IN THE COLLEGE
BRAND ROUND-UP

PRIZES: First Prize—-SYLVANIA PORTABLE TV. Second
Prize—POLAROID CAMERA KIT.

Added to the spoils of the lopsided
victory was the Generals’ satisfac-
tion in avenging last year’s 8-8 tie
with Hopkins, the only blemish on
an otherwise perfect season.

The Blue Jays lost, through grad-
uation, several of their top per-
formers from last year’s squad,
but it is doubtful they would have
made much difference even had
they been in the lineup Saturday.
For the W&L machine was oper-
ating at peak efficiency, both on
offense and defense, with all 45
players impressing the General
coaching staff and other onlookers
with their spirit and aggressive-
ness.

In fact, the Generals were, per-
haps, a bit too aggressive—they were
penalized a total of ninety yards,
compared to a paltry five yards
assessed against the Blue Jays. This
was the only factor which kept the
game from turning into a runaway
for W&L, as the Generals completely
outclassed their hosts throughout the
contest.

Saturday’s win was fully a team
effort, accomplished by the same
four-platoon system which coach
McLaughlin has used in rolling over
four opponents this year and vir-
tually the same system that crushed
eight foes last season. Both offensive
and defensive units were outstand-
ing. The defensive squad was dirctly
rsponsible for two W&L_ touch-
downs, including the initial tally
which launched the powerful Gen-
eral attack.

The Hopkins encounter was the
Generals’ last in preparation for next

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

GETTING READY—Captain Bip Fauber is shown above as
he leads this year’s General basketball squad through drills in
preparation for opener at Virginia, December 1.

W&L Basketball Squad Is Picked;
Lacks Height and Experience

Washington and Lee basketball
coach Bob McHenry, a “little man”
when he cavorted for General
basketball teams several years ago,
knows as well as anyone the dis-
advantage presented by lack of
height in modern basketball. And
after this season, it’s possible that
the vigorous young mentor will ap-
preciate this disadvantage better
than anyone.

McHenry made a tentative selec-
tion of the W&L varsity squad yes-
terday. Of 15 boys named to the
list, only two players are taller than
6’2”—and neither boy has had var-
sity experience.

So, according to McHenry, it will
be another year for the Generals

 

to emphasize a scrapping, aggres-
sive defense—and hope for a few
shooters to come along and bolster
the offensive attack, which will be
greatly hampered by the expected
lack of rebounding strength.

Lacks Experience

Experience may also be a problem.
Only four players—“Bip” Fauber,
Billy Ide, Dave Grogan and Billy
Smith—are back from last season,
and McHenry believes the key to
the Generals’ success may well lie
with the large group of inexper-
ienced performers that make up the
rest of the squad.

The Generals’ schedule will be
highlighted by a 17-game season.
The Opener will be with Virginia.

 

WONT
SHRINK
EVEN IF
YOU DO

Adler SC's are guar-
anteed not to shrink
out of fit or your mon-
ey back. Lamb's wool,
in men's and women's
sizes, in white and 12
other colors. Just $1
at fine stores.

ADLER

 

  
 
   
    
    

.

 

 

 

 

Welcomed SsC's
WHO WINS: First Prize will be awarded to group, fraternity,
sorority or individual accumulating highest number of points. Second
a" NSN Prize will be awarded to group, fraternity sorority or individual
accumulating the second highest number of points.
THE NEW RULES: 1. Contest open to all students. 2. Each empty package

submitted on Parliament or Alphine will have a value of 5 points.
Each empty package submitted on Philip Morris Regular or Com-
mander will have a value of 10 points. Each package submitted on
Marlboro will have a value of 1 point, 3. Closing date—December 6th,
5 p.m. Turn in wrappers to Ronnie King located at the University
Supply Store (prizes on display). 4. Entries will not be accepted after
closing time. Empty packages must be submitted in Bundles of 50.
Separate your 5 and 10 point packages.

Get on the BRANDWAGON ... it's lots of fun!

White Top

Restaurant
*

 

A personal invitation
to the Hi
Students

Try our delicious foods

Route 60 East

ADLER SC’s AVAILABLE IN WHITE AND COLORS AT

Marlhorg

 

COLLEGE TOWN SHOP
THOMAS LTD.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Topics Were Apathy And Politics

7 (Continued from page 1)

the definite minority and these same students began to point leading
questions directly at him. Luckily, someone proposed a question
to another member of the panel before anything drastic happened.

Conservative Trend: Fact or Fancy

One question the correspondents wanted answered by the editors
was “is the growing conservative trend fact or fancy on the college
campus?”

Answers ranged from one pole to another.

“Our students are strictly middle of the road,” said the Lehigh
representative.

Barnard’s editor said tht “the Conservative Club is gaining in
membership but its still regarded as odd. When we wanted to pub-
lish a “pro” and “con” on a Queens College action against barring
a Communist from speaking, no one wanted to write the “pro”
“until we finally dug up a freshman.”

A representative from Mt. Holyoke said that “there is a vocal
liberal group, but the Conservatives just sit there quietly.”

A Hofstra student said that “the Conservative groundswell has
reached that of the Liberals—that makes us middle of the road.

The group discussion which I attended was highlighted by ques-
tions from members of the foreign press. One such question was
“Do you think that the liberal arts are taking a second place in
American Education?”

One editor said that he thought that the liberal arts had become
second rate in education because of Russia’s great advance in science.

Another editor said that he reasoned the drop in the liberal arts
came from the fact that the term “liberal arts” had become so mis-
used in that too many subjects are being included in this field.

* * *

All in all, I can say that the conference was useful. It gave us
a chance to hear the opinions of other editors, and likewise it gave
us the opportunity to see and talk with some of the top correspon-
dents of the foreign press.

I just hope that next year’s editors will have more Southern
colleagues to help them out than we did.

Is W&L Encouraging Students To Think?

(Continued from page 2)

Washington and Lee has always been considered to be a place
where any honorable man could have his say, and where he would
be listened to and evaluated by honorable men. My conception of a
university is a place where all students are encouraged to think—
not taught to think, directed to think, or involuntarily forced not to
think.

The decision of the Board of Trustees concerning Dr. King
forces me to change my conception in regard to this University, as it
forces the Board of Trustees to examine their conception.

I can only hope that in their examination they come up with an

idea that resembles mine, and that they will find that their most

recent decision completely violates this conception.

 

 

(Continued from page 3)

Saturday’s game with rugged Emory
and Henry here.

 

 

 

EWC

 

TUE.-WED.

SPN Samer isis

eo

ed Tee) 7
|_HOBART 3-3424 |

 

ROVERE
anew film by ROBERTO ROSSELLINI
starring VITTORIO DE SICA

A CONTINENTAL DISTRIBUTING, INC, RELEASE

 

TODAY and WED.

GS
GENERAL

Ne the Me te Ma te te te Ba te tha te he he a te ee
Ts SS es eee ee eee

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813, 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531
14 South Randolph

 

 

 

Written and Produced by JIMMY SANGSTER
Directed by SETH HOLT

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
*

Radio, TV, Phonograph

 

 

 

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

: We Feature
SBALTEST
: Dairy Products

To get the best get Sealtest”’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice
Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

x
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

Movie Spoils

Indian Dance

(Continued from page 2)

bute it to the Shenandoah. That
issue sold eighty-six copies, a rec-
ord for the last three years com-
bined.

The very day the Shenandoah was
released I was paged in the Lyric.
Some guy from New York wanted
to publish my work in book form.
I told him to go ahead and do
anything he wanted, just get off the
phone before I miss the part where
Rory Calhoun tries his hand at the
fertility dance, the best part of the
whole flick.

The next night I was paged again
right before Rory did his bit. This
time the call was from California.
Cedric B. DeVille wanted to do a
spectacular with my book as script.
I was so excited that we talked right
through the part where Gabby Hayes
trips over his beard and gets tram-
pled by the fertility dancers.

The world premier was to be
held right here in the “Shrine of
the South”; so after calling around |
at a few girls’ schools, I was finally |
able to get a date at a nearby
high school. We would have to
make the early flick, though,
because she had to be in at 9:30.
The picture began with Fabian

in a red cowboy suit playing his
guitar and singing “Who put the
bomp in the ramma, lamma ding
dong? I sort of overlooked this, but

 

 

 

 

then I saw that the Karachoochees

weren't doing the fertility dance at

all—_they were doing the twist! I
was repulsed.

Lhbbbeeeeeen tet

.

% %

*Dodge and Dodge Dart

%

and Lancer *

America’s First Fine 3

% |

ECONOMY CAR +

%

. :

Rockbridge Motor Co. *

INC, %

%

Phone HObart 3-3146 :

%

si i i i i i i tt i

 

 

|
'

 

 

 

make a note

to ask about the
Piedmont
Xcursion Plan.
It’s the most
economical way
to fly home

on weekends.

 

 

saves you 75%

of your return fare
on round trips
you make

between midnight
Friday and
midnight Sunday...
or, fly one way
Saturday and
return any other
Saturday

within 30 days.

 

 

PLEDINONT
AIRLINES

 

| in

Assimilation Committee Chairman Protests

(Continued from page 2)

I should like to urge the editor to
take a tour of a number of cam-
puses throughout the state and ob-
serve the dress, conduct, and atti-
tude there. To most observers, there
is little noteworthy about the way
other student bodies look—ours is a
fortunate exception in my opinion.
Do we want to become “just another
school” or do we want to remain
exceptional? Is it so difficult to
wear a coat and tie or to speak to
someone when you meet on the
campus? Does not this extra effort
yield a greater return in favorable
impressions of Washington and Lee?

My final point concerns the edi-
tor’s contention that we are a group
of “nice little boys all dressed up
in our Little Lord Fauntleroy uni-
forms.” There is a social theory that
one acts according to the way the
dresses or stated as I have learned
the lesson in athletics, “if you're
sloppy in practice or in the dressing
room, you'll be sloppy in the game.”
One at least appears to have the
semblance of a mature young man

 

a coat and tie. This institution
Oe oe of oe of oe fe oe ole of ole ole ake ole ole ole ole ofe ofe ole ole ole ofe ole
* %
% >
* THE DUTCH INN
Oo wt
* For Reservation Call +
% i ate
+ MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS 4
oe a te
x HO 3-3433 =

eeleobobeteteteobobobeboboteseototeteoteteteteteters

 

seteteteoteeteoboteeoboteobeopeteoteeeteoteteteatetees
Oe
The *
* CHILDREN’S
* CORNER *
z Corner Main and Washington >
one %
Ae oho ofe ole ole oe ole oe ole ole ole ofe ake % 1 ete % * % % forge

intends to build character and turn
out exceptional and_ responsible
graduates. As the dean of a noted
graduate school once said “if we’re
going to train you to think like
businessmen, you should begin by
dressing accordingly.” In my own
mind, this applies to whatever ma-
jor one has, be it History, English,
or Commerce.

When the times comes that this
university has to send out into the
mature world of business challenge
and social responsibility graduates
dressed in blue jeans, sneakers, and
sweatshirts, then I shall do away
with an Assimilation Committee.
Until then, I shall be proud that we
operate under “the rules of a gentle-
man”—starting with dress.

Stephen W. Rutledge

 

Shamefully, It Stands

(Continued from page 3)

The supposition is the same in
both cases: first, that the product
has been judged and found harmful
and second, that the reader or list-
ener is not capable of making his
own evaluation.

Many adjectives could be prefixed
to The Decision. I prefer to think
that it was not well thought out and
hastily done but that does not les-
sen its impact for the students or the
school. Shamefully, it stands.

 

« NEW TOWN INN $
e e
¢ Short Orders—Lunches $
: Catering to Students :
e

 

Meebetetestesentestntstestetesteteobntntntntstecteeoeofofnfobetetetteteobobobedeobobobobeleobetedeteoeobeot

 

teh

he

sS

seofeotestecte

%,
“

abe

 

* afore rte rhe she nfo oe fe nfo ofe ale ofe ote

+

   

You will find this bank a pleasant place
to transact your banking business.

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
$a oe oat een nZone oeodeogefeofeteateafententesfeafeafeateoteofeoteofenfeetefeeateateatenteofeoteateateateofeateateafeate

eo oe te teat cte ote ote ote obese ederte te oteoteeteobe otetedeteteteteteeteoeeeeee

 

o Whats better-

o p

  

Would rather have $50,000-$100,000
yearly salary—and obscurity

® Ate students
conservative

. Conservative
["]. Middle of the road

Start fresh

| fame or

 

fo

_-.

a

 

r Liberal

 
   

 

Sugsgitia

 

 

 

 

 

Stay fresh win LM

Any way you look at
them — L*M’s taste bet-
ter. Moisturized tobac-
cos make the difference!
Yes, your taste stays
fresh with L*M — they
always treat you right!

¥
=

  
   
  

= 8:

 

FILTERS |

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACC!
|

 

 

OD ODIVEO! SUaAW F 4430917

@ti J219V0IW 3HL

eS

rune?

   

[__] Would rather have world recognition ,
—and small financial rewards

® Do students |
prefer filter ot
non-filter cigaretles?

f

(7y 14 nofi ypa13
sivayy fay f

“We

HLIM HS344 AVIS 231SVL Y349ud

‘W87 HLIM
HS3¥4d LUVIS ZSYFL4d Ya4aud
%8Z $19}{4}-UON
Kel S19}(14

% Eb 1e18q!)
Ybe PeOs a4} JO B/ppiy

  

 

 

%8Z BAIJEAIISUOD
%ve awe arey sayjey
%99 aunyJ0} ®

ney Jayjey

Try fresh-tasting, best-tasting {M today...in pack or box!

 
