   

TUESDAY
Edition

oe neoaaornce

 

 

WEL ROLLS OVER SEW ANEE, 26-8, 8, I. IN DRI VE FOR SECOND UNDEFEATED SEASON

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

   

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 14, 1961

Number 16

40 Students Awarded Research Grants

 

 

The Tuesday Staff Speaks .. .

 

EMPHASIS

EC Proposals Reviewed;
Opinions Given

By TOM RAINS
Tuesday Staff Writer

On February 1, 1961 there appeared in circulation about the campus the
first issue of Protest, a student publication.

The purpose of this publication was to bring to the attention of the stu-
dent body those areas of operation in the student government and any other
phase of student activity, of which the student body at large was in-
cognizant.

Protest was successful in revealing various points of interest which in
its opinion were in need of revision or replacement in the hand book of
the student body. The climax of the discussion of these issues was reached
at the time of the student body elections last Spring, thus provoking one
of the most controversial campaigns in the history of the student body.

For the first time the candidates for the top three offices in the student
government issued platforms, calling for various revisions and replacements
of certain articles in the student handbook.

By this time—a full three months after the issue of Protest—the student
body was well aware of the need of revision in the student constitution of
Washington and Lee University.

Proposals Listed
Some of the proposals which were made in the platforms of the last
spring’s elections are similar to recent suggestions. These include:
1. Limiting the powers of the Assimilation Committee to the Cam-
pus.
2. Revitalizing the Cold Check Committee.

3. The formation of a student committee to advise students who
have been guilty of misconduct. (Passed at the Faculty Meeting last
week.)

4. Changing the nominating convention procedure so that more
men’s names may appear on the ballot.

5. Broadening the base of student government through some form
of legislation such as a student senate.

6. Opening the Executive Committee meetings, other than honor
trials, to the public, and publishing the minutes of these meetings.

7. Formation of a committee to study constitutional revision.
8. The instigation of a poll tax as an incentive to student vote.

9. Giving prospective candidates for election tests which cover in-
telligence and general ability, initiative, resourcefulness and crea-
tive agility, and leadership ability.

Student Opinion

Various student opinions have appeared on the first of these proposals;
some students think that conventional dress, to be specific, should be
limited to the campus, while others believe that conventional dress should
be abolished altogether.

It is the general feeling of the faculty who were asked their opinion
that the dress rules should remain. Without question it does give us dis-
tinction from some of the state universities. However, the main opinion
seems to be that reference to the Assimilation Committee “rules” should be
made as such and not as “traditions.” “Custom suggests, but never dictates,”
one professor pointed out.

Much Discussed

Much discussion has taken place on the formation of a student com-
mittee to advise students who are guilty of misconduct. This proposal
was passed at a faculty meeting held last week, which, in effect, gave the
green light to the first of the new proposals offered by those men elected in
last Spring’s campus election.

A number of faculty members whose opinions were sought revealed
that a few professors felt that students would be incapable to serve on
such a committee.

One opinion was expressed that a position on this committee would
degenerate into mere political office thereby allowing political power to
operate in disciplinary action taken upon a student.

Faculty Ideas

A few of the faculty members whose opinions were sought indicated
that students are often inclined to be too lenient with their friends, or
that they are afraid of being too lenient and thus unbearably strict.

In regard to changing the procedure of the nominating convention so
that two student’s names appear on the general election ballot, the opinion
was expressed by both faculty and students that this change should be
made. This would allow a third political party, if such existed to offer
their candidate for election.

Regarding the opening of the Executive Committee meetings, other
than those dealing with honor cases, to the public and publishing the
minutes of these meetings, a general opinion seems to favor this.

No Official Action

To date, no official action has been taken on any of these proposals
(save the Disciplinary Committee and publishing the minutes o fthe EC
meeting) except the formation of a Reform Committee by the EC, headed
by Secretary of the Student Body Steve Suttle. This committee is consid-
ering each of these proposals which have been mentioned here.

Proposals should be submitted in writing, accompanied by a reason for
them, to Steve Suttle or sent to the Executive Committee by November 22,
1961.

It is the plan of the Reform Committee to study these proposals and
submit them to the Executive Committee for voting.

The voting will be carried out in accordance with the present constitu-
tion,

 

Mr. Gibson Morrissey will be o ncampus tonight to rehearse
the W&L Glee Club for a performance with the Roanoke Sym-
phony on Dec. 3.

 

Robert E. Lee Research grants,
Established in 1960 by the

last year.

arships offer opportunities to stu-
dents on the undergraduate level, Dr.
Pusey said. The program is “di-
rected toward the involvement of
students in the creative as well as
the more routine aspects of schol-
arly research, an academic exper-
ence not generally open to under-
graduates,” he added.

The Fund was established in the
fall of 1960 as a result of a dona-
tion given by Dr. Gustavus Benz
Capito, a graduate of the class of
1899.

The income from more than a
quarter of a million dollars, supple-
mented by a gift from the Charleston
Foundation for Research, is avail-
able to encourage qualified and
strongly motivated students to be-
come familiar with research.

 

 

UCA Lecture To Answer Ethical Problems

How can Christianity cope
successfully with the ever in-
creasing threat of Commun-
ism? How does Christian
ethics effect love, sex, and
marriage? What exactly are

The general theme of the discus-
sion will be that many people in
this nation have a Christianity all
their own, if they have any at all,
consisting in a compromise of basic
Christian doctrine and contemporary
political and economic theories.

The second lecture in the series

will be given by the Rev. John C.
Fletcher, rector of the R. E. Lee
Memorial church. He will present
his lecture on Dietrick Bonhoeffer
and his ethics on December 7 at 7
p.m. in the Student Union.

One week later, the third lecture

(Continued on page 4)

 

the ethics of Dietrick Bonhoef-
fer? Is Christ dead?

These are questions which many
students have been asking, and
which the University Christian As-
sociation will take an active part in
answering. This is one of the main
reasons that the U.C.A. is sponsor-
ing a series of lectures and discus-
sions, through which the participants
may gain a better insight into their
own opinions, and may challenge
opposing ones while strengthening
their own.

It is hoped that each student par-
ticipating will take enough interest
in these lectures and discussions so
that they will become, and continue
to be an important part in the stu-
dent’s life, a U.C.A. spokesman said.

Dr. Marshall W. Fishwick, profes-
sor of American Studies, will de-
liver the first of the lectures which
will be on a subject of importance to

Washington

 

Quiz Bowl Team Loses To Pomona; |
W&L Hurt By Lack Of Experience

By STEVE GUILD
Executive News Editor

At 5:30 Sunday afternoon a
hush fell over the Washing-
ton and Lee campus. Televi-
sion sets at Doc’s, the Com-
mons, and homes and apart-
ments all over Lexington were
tuned to the General Electric

College Quiz Bowl.

This show was the culmination of
many weeks of work for the four
and Lee
scholars—Tom Lybass, Jim Campbell
Bill Lowry, and Rick Anderson. Af-
ter several preliminary quizzes, a

The Robert E. Lee Research Schol-*

 

four-time winner Pomoma College |
and a 330-110 loss. |

Washington and Lee looked like
it might get the edge on Roane
by answering correctly the first |
toss-up and bonus questions. How-
ever, after that, Pomona’s previous
experience paid off, shown by their
domination of the first half of the
show. In the second half W&L ap-|
peared to have gotten a second wind,
and they answered about an equal |
number of questions as Pomona did.
The edge that Pomona had built up,
though, could not be whittled down. |

 

 

Following the show, several mem- |
bers of the Pomona team told W&L |
that “this was the best team that |
we have played in the five weeks |

quiz bowl

 

everyone. His lecture, entitled| practice radio session on WR&L, and| We have been on the show.” This |
“Christ in a Cage,” will be presented| many nights work learning the| feeling was best shown by the state- |
in a slide-and-commentary form at| techniques of the show, the final| ment of Dallas Holmes, captain of |

the Student Union on November 21.) product was

 

their

contest against

(Continued on page 4)

Program Created To Stimulate

Student Intellectual Interest

By JIM HALEY
Tuesday Staff Writer

Forty Washington and Lee students have been awarded

it was announced today by Dr.

William W. Pusey, Dean of the College.

gift of $300,000 from a then

anonymous donor, the Research Fund gave aid to 25 students

 

During the first year of its oper-
ation approximately 25 students
were engaged in various projects in
the sciences, humanities, and social
sciences. Since the program could
not be put into effect without care-
ful planning, most of the projects
were carried out largely during the
second semester.

Reports from students and profes-
sors involved indicated that the pro-
gram was unusually successful, and
it received favorable publicity in
the New York Times and the Amer-
ican Council of Learned Societies
Newsletter. It is being carried on in
an expanded basis this year.

The grants are made to stu-
dents in two different fields. The
first is aiding a professor in his re-
search, The second is conducting a
project with the professor’s guid-
ance. Both the professors and stu-
dents involved should benefit from
the research.

Eduardo D. Gonzalez; Student As-
sistant for Spanish 211-12 Labora-
tory; Dr. Westbrook Barritt.

Rosewell Page; Preparation of a
Civil War Diary for Publication; Dr.
William G. Bean.

William P. Boardman, Alfred A.
Eckes, Jr., and Peter Straub; Library
Research for Materials on the Na-
tional Debate Question; Mr. William
W. Chaffin.

James W. Ivey; Bibliographical
Assistance in Preparation of Articles
for Publication; Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw.

Justus C. Hoyt; Arrangement and
| Description of Manuscript Collection
in Washington and Lee Library;
Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw.

Hunter Manson; Fame as a Theme
in the Work of Nathaniel Haw-
thorne; Dr. Cecil D. Eby.

Robert C. Mottley, Jr.; An Analy-
sis of Rockbridge County From
1865-1870; Dr. Marshall W. Fishwick.

George B. Fozzard, R. Bryan Mil-
ler, and Kerford A. Marchant, Jr.;
3 Student Assistants for Chemistry
1-2 Laboratories; Dr. E. S. Gilreath.

J. Brantley Sydnor; The Behavior
of Anhydrous Ionic Substances in
Absolute Methanol; Dr. E. S. Gil-
reath.

Irving M. Lynn, Jr.; Literature
Search in Psychology; Dr. William
M. Hinton.

Harry F. Kurz; The History of the

(Continued on page 4)

 

Boulding Begins Seminar Tonight

By C. C, FLIPPEN
Associate Editor

Dr. Kenneth E. Boulding, noted economist and
author, opens a two-part series of lectures here
tonight on ethics and its application to modern econo-
my.

Speaking at 7:30 from Lee Chapel, Dr. Boulding will
discuss “Ethical Problems and Capitalist Develop-
ment.” The second lecture on “Ethical Problems and
Socialist Development” will be given tomorrow at
7:30 p.m. in the chapel.

This seminar is the first in a series of three to be
sponsored jointly by the Washington and Lee de-
partments of religion and economics. It will replace
the traditional University Religious Conference week.
Other speakers are to appear in February and April.

In addition to his regularly scheduled evening
lectures, Dr. Boulding will speak to a combined
class of economics students tomorrow at 12:05 in
Newcomb 8. This talk is open to anyone who may
wish to attend. He also spoke to economics and
religious classes this morning.

Dr. Boulding, professor of economics at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, is a native of England. He came
to this country for advanced study in 1932 after
graduating from Oxford University. Later he returned
to teach here and in 1948 became a United States
citizen.

In 1941-42, he served as economist with the League

of Nations and later on the Committee for Economic
Development, Chicago, Illinois.
The American Economic Association awarded the
John Bates Clark Medal to him in 1949. This award
is made bienially to an economist under forty who
has made an outstanding contribution to his field.
Later he worked at the Center for Advanced Study
in the Behavoral Sciences at Stanford, California.
Two years ago he served as visiting professor
head of the economics department
College of the West Indies, Kingston, Jamacia.
Among his many works in economics are, A Re-
construction of Economics (1950), The Organizational
Revolution, (1953), and The Skills of the Economist
(1958). He has also contributed chapters to several
books on religion. In addition to these works, he has

and
at the University

published a book of poetry, There is a Spirit, and a
book of philosophy, The Image.

Before joining the faculty at Michigan, Dr. Bould-
ing taught the universities of Edinburgh, Iowa State,
Colgate, Fisk and McGill.

Recognized as an authority by economists and
theologians throughout the world, he is a member
of numerous organizations composed of men in these
fields. Among the groups he is associated with are:
the American Economic Association, Royal Economic
Society, American Association of University Profes-
sors, the American Association for the Advancement

of Science, and the Society of Friends.

 

Boulding
To Present Lecture
In Lee Chapel Tonight

Kenneth E.
Page 2

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE RING-TUM PHI

Tuesday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

We Must Keep W&L's Most Valuable Asset

Ww w

w Ww

Ww Ww

Honor System Not Ours To Do With As We Please, It Is Only Ours To Preserve

Editor’s note: The Tuesday Edition is very fortu-
nate in having the following article concerning our
honor system available for publication.

With the question of campus politics, and of the
honor system by nature of campus politics, again
coming to the fore, we feel that the following evaluation
is of particular significance at this time. The article was
written by W&L’s Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, an assist-
ant professor of English.

We sincerely appreciate Dr. Coulling’s interest and
that time he has given the Tuesday Edition, and we
would hope that the student body pays particular at-
tention to Dr. Coulling’s effort.

We feel that this article expresses this paper’s opin-
ion about the honor system, and we submit it as “‘edi-
torial comment.”’ Our regular editorials will appear next
week,

By DR. SIDNEY M. B. COULLING
Assistant Professor of English

If everyone who knows Washington and Lee well were asked to se-
lect the single most valuable asset of the University, I have little doubt
that the choice would be almost unanimous—our honor system.

From time to time, I know, there has been vigorous competition from
other quarters: a Gator Bowl football team, a sensationally success-
ful group on the Quiz Bowl, an historian of international fame, a new
endowment enthusiastically applauded by educators throughout the

country. But year in and year out it has been the honor system, more »

than anything else, that has placed Washington and Lee in its distin-
guished position in American education.

It is the honor system that has made possible much of the
characteristic life of the college community, from unproctored ex-
aminations to the unquestioning acceptance of student checks.

It is the honor system that has helped to create an environment
in which serious intellectual pursuits are possible and in which
excellence is respected. And, as I learned once again last summer
when I was among Washington and Lee’s representatives at a con-
ference in Colorado Springs, it is the honor system that attracts
more praise and more interest, among students and educators from
New England to California, than anything else that can be men-
tioned about the University.

Don’t Forget ‘Why’ of Honor System

This is so because, of all we can boast of here, our genuinely ef-
fective honor system is the one thing that is shared by only a handful
of institutions in the nation.

All of this seems so obvious that it hardly needs to be said. And yet
in recent years I have increasingly sensed that we do not sufficiently ap-
preciate the true importance of the honor system. Even with the scan-
dal of the early fifties only a decade behind us we are prone to re-
gard the honor system with complacency, to accept it as the natural
course of things, to consider it simply as something else here that is old
and traditional.

Too many of us, I am afraid, are either unaware or forgetful of what
exists where there is no honor system, casually dismissing the matter
with the tired witticism about the faculty with the honor and the stu-
dents with the system. We tend to think that inevitably Washington and
Lee will always have an honor system, and that the loss or weakening
of the honor system “can never happen here.” Or, if I may judge by the
themes I read now and then, we are tempted to speak of “the three great
Washington and Lee traditions—conventional dress, the speaking tra-
dition, and the honor system,” as if the student’s integrity is on the
same level of importance as his custom of wearing a jacket and speak-
ing to his friends.

If I regard our honor system as pre-eminently important, the
reason is that I have had first-hand experience with the immense
problems that are created in institutions with inadequate honor
systems or no honor system at all. My first teaching assignment, for
example, was at a large southern university which had an honor
system supported largely by elaborate rhetorical claims.

Once when I reported a student for submitting an essay that he
had copied from the New York Herald Tribune I caused a stir
which affected the entire campus and lasted for weeks. Although
the penalty for such an offence—failure in the course and expulsion
for a semester—was clearly and explicitly stated in a book of regu-
lations, the student and administrative authorities sought every
possible evasion.

No one seemed too remote from the case to help decide it: no testi-
mony was too irrelevant to include. The student’s minister at home
wrote to say that his family were pillars of the church; his dormitory
counselor testified that he rarely kept late hours or created disturb-
ances; and some of his other professors said that in class he seemed
pleasant and attentive. Eventually 1 was notified by a dean that since
most of the evidence pointed to the conclusion that the accused was
really a prince of a fellow who had somehow mistaken an article in
the Herald Tribune for one of his own essays, I should forget the whole
matter and permit the student to write another paper.

Cheating Condoned Elsewhere

At a second institution where I taught there was not even the pre-
tense of an honor system, for the students were so accomplished in de-
ception that the faculty and administration had long since abandoned
any serious attempt to deal with the problem. One of my students, a
third-string fullback who had made himself valuable as the extra-point
specialist, was so skillfully assisted in his work that only late in the
semester, and then by accident, did I discover that in reality he was
scarcely literate. Another student was a cheater so clumsy that he was
repeating English 1 for the fourth time, but he was beginning to learn.
He came to class one day to write an impromptu theme, pulled out an
old issue of The Reader’s Digest, and began copying one of its articles
of condensed but lasting interest. When I challenged him he replied that
he was merely taking notes in preparation for the paper—the paper he
was supposed to be writing at that very moment! Both of us knew this
was an outrageous lie, but both also knew that I was utterly powerless
to do anything about it. Had I tried to take the matter to the adminis-
tration I would have experienced the same treatment which a colleague
of mine received when he attempted to press an honor case. He was ac-
cused by his dean of being a trouble maker and was encouraged to seek
a teaching position elsewhere.

However absurd such accidents may seem, however foreign they are
to our experience at Washington and Lee, it is salutary to be reminded
that such things can and do happen every day on campuses throughout
the country. If we are to speak of the honor system with something other
than glibness and complacency, we must always keep in mind what the
absence of an honor system can do: it can sap the vitality of an institu-
tion; it can make a travesty of the whole educational process; it can
create an atmosphere of mutual hostility between faculty and students
and demoralize everyone by establishing a mood of cynicism and futility.

I have insisted on this point because I believe there is danger
in complacency. But there is a second danger, I think, still more
serious—the tendency, apparently growing in recent years, to sub-
ject the honor system to a scrutiny that obscures rather than illum-
inates. I do not mean that we should never examine or discuss the
honor system. Certainly the lively debate of this past spring was a
good and healthful sign. Nor do I mean that the honor system is
sacred or perfect, that it should be immune from criticism.

If there are faults and weaknesses then by all means they
should be corrected. But there is a difference between an examina-
tion of the honor system that is useful and an examination of it
that is not, and it has seemed to me that we have not always ob-
served this distinction.

What Is Honor?

In the past few months, for example, I have heard the complaint that
in applying the honor system we face a vast difficulty because of our in-
ability to define what we mean by honor. I hope that I am not being
semantically naive when I say that I cannot believe we have any real
difficulty here. I think that we know in general what we mean by the
word, and even if we cannot adequately define it we at least know what
is not honest. We know that lying and stealing and cheating are not
honest, and we know what lying and stealing and cheating are. The
honor system was never intended to be the object of metaphysical or
semantic speculation. It is a very practical system of assuring that hon-
orable behavior shall be the rule of life here, and to introduce into it
questions which lie outside its province is to weaken it without pur-

 

pose.

A second kind of unhelpful criticism is the demand to have the
application of the honor system described in the most minute de-
tails, to indicate precisely the boundary between the area where it
applies and the area where it does not apply.

We need, of course, to know where we stand, and obviously we must
state what offenses are punishable and what are not. But there is a

danger in wishing to be too specific. Just as the desire to know exactly
what pages of the text are included in the examination material en-
courages one to study only what is absolutely essential, so too does the
insistence on minutely describing the application of the honor system
encourage one to avoid any unnecessary honesty. Again I hope that I
am not being naive when I say that I think we know the area
covered by the honor system. Its strength, we are accustomed to repeat-
ing, lies in its not being overloaded, in its applying to a fairly restricted
and well-defined area. But this has always meant that the honor system
is strong because it has not attempted to regulate social conduct. It has
never meant that the honor system is strong because it does not demand
too much honor of a student. It has never meant that honor can be com-
partmentalized, that stealing in a dormitory is forbidden but stealing in
a fraternity house is permissible. The word integrity suggests, etymolog-
ically, wholeness. We cannot have this “wholeness” if our concern is with
discovering what dishonorable deeds we can get by with rather than
with being honorable in all that we say and do.

W&L Supports Honor System

Whatever may have been the inadequacies of Washington and Lee
students, they have at least made one great and enduring contribution
that is the bedrock of everything else—they have developed, admin-
istered, supported, and maintained the honor system as a vital force in the
University.

If the present and future students wish to make a contribution,
they can make no more significant one than continuing the same
tradition. But one thing they may not do. They may not regard the
honor system as their exclusive possession. It is not theirs alone; it
belongs to every student who through the years has faithfully
helped establish it as an integral part of our lives. For this reason
the enjoyment of it is not simply a right and a privilege, but a
solemn responsibility.

As Ruskin said of the architecture of the past, the honor system is not
ours to do with as we please; it is ours only to preserve.

Arsonists Group ‘Burns’ Building

By BILL KINSEY and TOM GOAR
Columnists-at-Large

Dedicated to report happenings of
major importance on neighboring
campuses, we donned our tuxedoes
and hopped the bus to Staunton
Friday night to catch Mary Baldwin
Cotillion.

By thorough investigation we un-
covered two very interesting facts:
one, Mary Baldwin Cotillion is not
until December first, and two, Mary
Baldwin Cotillion is going to be held
at Hollins this year. Never daunted,
your persistant reporters strolled the
streets of Staunton in search of
news.

Nothing had turned up after ten
minutes; so, still in our tuxes, we
wandered into Parchisi’s Pizza

Fraternities
Seek Agency
For Buying

By GEORGE HONTS
Tuesday Columnist

There has been talk on the cam-
pus for the past few months about
fraternities inves-
tigating the pos-
sibility of estab-
lishing a central
purchasing agency
for themselves.
The idea behind
the agency is a
basic and much
needed one: that
is to reduce the
expenses which
fraternities incur
over the year on
major items such as food and furni-
ture and incidental items ranging
from light bulbs to toilet paper.

Several student leaders are inter-
ested in the establishment of such
an agency. Without freshmen pay-
ing board bills many fraternities are
in a financial pinch, and establish-
ment of a central purchasing and
distributing agency has the potential
of greatly lowering the cost of run-
ning a fraternity. After all Lexing-
ton merchants have their own skins
to care for and they cannot give
discounts in proportion to the sav-
ings a wholesale house could offer.

 

   

Honts

One student suggested such an
agency might be able to lower the
costs to the point that a dietician
and director might be hired to
handle the agency on behalf of
the fraternities and thus guarantee
efficency of operation as well as
the quality of the produce handled.

The IFC has been seeking an area
in which it can exert some real in-
fluence and power. The investigation
of the possibilities of such an agency
and the establishment of it—if it is
worthwhile—strikes me as being an
excellent point of departure for the
IFC. It would be in the interest of
every fraternity man to see if some
action could not be taken on the
matter.

 

Palace Palace for some liquid re-
freshments.

Before we could take the first
sip, a short, fat fellow in a tux
bustled in and introduced himself
as Harry Happyface.

“Hurry, hurry, hurry,” he said,
“you’re going to be late for the
A.A.A. Convention.” We certainly
didn’t want to be late for the
A.A.A. Convention, so we followed
him.

Over the door to the building,
carved in marble, was the sign,
“Association of American Arsonists.”
As we went in, the brotherhood
were singing their fight song:

Oh, happy, carfree arsonists. We—
Go into the forest, set fire to a tree.

Fires in the city, fires in the town,
Burn the whole damn world to the
ground.

Property damage, fire loss, we don’t
care—

Singe the fur on our enemy, Smokey
the Bear.

Everyone then sat down to their
dinner of shis-kabob with cherries
jubliee for desert. Your reporters
made the mistake of taking out
cigerattes after the meal; the waiter
was there quick as a flash to light
them—with a blow torch.

Miss Arme Pitt got up to intro-
duce the principle speaker, Melvin
Monotone, who spoke on how to
throw a real housewarming.

We started to doze, but were
rudely awaken as Harry Happy-
face set our coats on fire. We
got them off and stamped them
out, to the obvious disappointment
of the entire audience.

At that moment, the waiters
wheeled in a huge cake. As the
band played, “Smoke Gets in Your
Eyes,” a curvacious blonde lept
out of the cake. The audience was
disappointed until she stepped in a
plate of crepe suzette and went
up in flames.

A distinct aroma of burning flesh
crept over the room as your report-
ers made their way toward the
exit. The conventioners began to
grow frisky and were tossing Molo-
tov cocktails at one another.

We stood for a moment amid the
rubble that once was the A.A.A.

 

Notices

Because of the important
article on the Honor System,
Dave C. Knight’s and Bob
Ketcham’s columns will appear
in next week’s Tuesday edition

of the Ring-tum Phi.
EC NOTICE

Members of the Executive Com-
mittee will be in the fraternity
houses Wednesday and Thursday
night to discuss the new Student
Control Committee with fraterni-
ty members,

 

Convention Hall, then _ silently
mounted our hound and rode off
into the sunrise.

* ae *

terest on neighboring campuses.
Next week's feature will be the re-
sult of your reporters’ travels to the
University of North Carolina, and
will be entitled “Carolina Germans—
a Folk Tradition.”

Students Wonder:
What Can We Do?

By THORNS CRAVEN
Tuesday Columnist

As all of you no doubt realize,
there are many crises extant in the
world today.

The problem we
face as_ college
students is what
to do?

For sometime
now, for example,
I have been wond-
ering what to do
about fall-out.
Hair restorers are
ineffective at best,
and wigs are too
expensive. Just
recently, however, I have noticed a
new kind of fall-out is in the news
constantly. The solution to this
problem, and the _ sub-problems
which it brings along as lethal by-
products, is fortunately much simp-
ler than my own immediate problem.

As a matter of fact, the solution
to the radioactive fall-out prob-
lem is so simple that I'm ashamed
of myself for not thinking of it.
Since I know everyone is inter-
ested in this sort of thing, I won’t
hold the solution back any longer.

This is the second in a series of
articles featuring happenings of in-

 

CO-EDS!
WOULD YOU LIKE YOUR CHILD
TO LOOK LIKE THIS? (Then came
the drawing). The general body of
the advertisement was as follows:

“This is an example of what radio-
active fall-out can do to the future
generations. CO-EDS, FIGHT
BACK! You can fight back now. The
Russians have polluted the atmos-
phere with radioactive material,
which will fall on us with the
spring rains. You don’t have to be
told what this will do to our future
generations. The results of the ter-
rible rays will be disastrous to chil-
dren whose existence begins after
the spring rains.

BUT—If you act before the
spring rains bring the horrible
mutating scourge of fall-out upon
us, your baby need not run the
risk of being a mutant freak. We,
the members of the Society for the
Transmission of Unmutated Des-
cendants (STUD), Limited, deter-
minded to save YOUR CHILDREN
from this scourge, and avoid for
YOU the untold sorrow which
awaits the barren, have combined
to assist YOU in preserving our
race, so that together we may af-
firm our belief in fundamental hu-
man rights and dignity and worth
of the human person as he exists,
and permit him to exist in the fu-
ture.

Craven

Several days ago, while looking
over the morning mail, I ran across
a letter from a friend of mine at
LSU which contained a circular
which is being passed around that

subsidized campus.

Pictured at the top was a cute
little infant with two heads and one
foot. The copy of the circular ran
like this:

The Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed wi the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.
National Advertising Service
60 E. 50th Street
New York 22, New York
Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
nace. Va., under the act of March

eee Robert Roy Goodwin, II
Business Manager.............. Peter Agelasto

 

 

     

Editorial Board
PROGR AD TGoeasssscsssscrcseeinees ante Nea
Asst. Managing Editor........ John Allgood
Executive News Editor........ Steve Guild
News Editor........... Julian Markham
BOOTS BAO? .. rnnicunmnnn Peter Alford
Don Waliis......... Asst, Sports Editor
Associate Editors................ C. C. Flippen,

Tom Lybass, Tom Edwards,
Bill Bowen, Ken Lane
Don Campbell..... Photographer
Copy Editors..... ..Whit Fitzpatrick,
Jack DeJarnette
CONSE. .14:00.-22000 Thorns Craven, Dave
Knight, Robert C. Ketcham,
George Honts
Walt McManus...
Chick Owens

 

  

 

Advertising
Enna sauna Circulation

 

 

“You need not see this last op-
portunity to see healthy grandchil-
dren slip away. Call STUD for an
appointment with the future. We will
not fail you. Will you fail the future
of your country and your unselfish
forefathers?”

Indicative of Spirit

This is the kind of thing that I
like to see our generation doing, and
I think it is indicative of the spirit
which is sweeping college campuses
across the nation. And I think that
we should start a chapter of STUD
here at Washington and Lee so the
poor girls at Hollins and Sweet
Briar, and those other schools won’t
have to go all the way to Louisiana
to perform their patriotic duty.

The first five men to call the Uni-
versity Development Office on Wed-
nesday morning will be signed up,
and if we see later on that the work
is too much for us then we'll taken
on a few provisional members. And
those of you who aren’t chosen
should feel free to work as inde-
pendent agents or free-lance oper-
ators.

We don’t need a monopoly neces-
sarily, for monopolies are Un-
American,
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

GENERALS RANKED 14TH IN SMALL COLLEGES

 

Coach Lee McLaughlin’s “football-in-depth” process paid
off again for his 45-Star Generals Saturday. Coach Mac,
utilizing his four platoons of talented gridiron performers,
wore down a fired-up, previously-unbeaten University of the
South team as the still-unbeaten Generals registered an impres-
sive 26-8 win on the losers field.

The victory, W&L’s seventh this*
season, removed a major obstacle in
the Generals’ quest for a second
straight undefeated season. They are
generally favored to top the two
remaining foes on the schedule,
Frederick College and Washington
University of St. Louis.

New Record

The triumph also set a new school
record for most consecutive games
played without a loss. The win over
Sewanee ran _ the Generals’ un-

ate I Star Of The Week

Fohs’ Fierce S Tachling
Merits Virginia Award

“TI don’t see where Terry has
room for improvement,” said Coach
Lee McLaughlin.

No Letdown

“It has to be Fohs,” said Coach
Mac in picking this week’s Sport
Star of the week. “What amazes me
most of all about Terry,” Coach
Mac added, “is that he is so con-
sistent. You’d expect anyone to have
a bad game once in a while, but not
Fohs, he has yet to have a letdown.”

a
ve

4}

H

beaten string to 17, eclipsing the
16-game string record by W&L
teams some 45 years ago.

And the win enabled the Gener-
als to gain revenge for a 15-14 loss
absorbed at Sewanee in a _ fog-
marred battle two years ago—the
last time a Washington and Lee team
has tasted defeat.

The W&L victory turned out to
be a decisive, convincing one, but
it seemed probable that the con-

 

.

 

 

 

 

Carnegie Tech to pursue an engi-
neering degree. He stayed, however,
and has led the team in tackles in
every contest this season.

This week, Terry was picked
again by the Richmond Times-
Dispatch as “The Lineman of the
Week,” thus making the second
time that he has achieved this dis-
tinction. Last year, he earned the
honor because of his outstanding

(Continued on page four)

 

Terry Fohs ‘Throws One Of His Fierce Blocks.

 

Greenbrier Blanks Baby Generals;
Final Game With Staunton Friday

Washington and Lee’s freshman
gridders were again held scoreless
as they fell to Greenbrier Military
Academy on Friday, 20-0.

No Offense

After a scoreless first quarter
Greenbrier scored its first touch-
down in the second period, after
a long drive, on a 4-yard end run.
A two point conversion was success-
ful and at the close of the first half
the score stood at 8-0 for GMA.

Greenbrier scored early in the
third quarter after grabbing a Bill
David fumble on W&L’s 15-yard

 

 

Linebacker

Terry Fohs, a Delt senior from
Baltimore, plays the center line-
backer slot in McLaughlin’s “Eagle”
defensive setup. While being one of
the captains on last year’s unde-
feated team, it was feared for some
time that Fohs might transfer to

eberbo rhe rhe rteoe fe he she nfo rhe ee fe shee hese she ahe nfe fee re fe ofa ofe se ae ae ae ae oe oho oe oe oleae ae oe oho ale we ofc ofe ae ote ole

tlie

PUBLIC
SERVICE
a OT]
0

o, S/
o Cy
arr

       
     
  

fourth for the score. The conver-
sion attempt was unsuccessful.

After an almost even fourth quar-
ter, Greenbrier scored on a 2-yard
fullback plunge with 50 seconds re-
maining. The final conversion at-
tempt was blocked and the game
closed with W&L 0, Greenbrier 20.

W&L looked its best of the season

although they did not score, they
had several good drives includ-
ing a 45-yard run by halfback
Bill David.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lrererererrerrerrserree

 

line. They were held on three suc- The
i th
cessive downs, but passed on the CHILDREN’S
CORNER

Meee tere ele ote re oer fete rorle ete rerie resets

NOTICE

Movies of the Washington and
Lee-Sewanee football game of last
Saturday will be shown without
fail in duPont auditorium tonight at
7:30. Head football coach Lee Mc-
Laughlin has consented to be on
hand to narrate the films.

If interest is high enough films of
other Generals’ games will be shown
in the future.

Corner Main and Washington

t
%
J
%
te
%
%
¢
ee Here se nfo aero fe eee ode se ofe sealer

-
%
he
%
%
%
%
:
%

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS
Phone HO 3-3813, 108 S. Jefferson

You will find this bank a pleasant place
to transact your banking business.

 

eGo nde oe fe she ole ole ake oe fe fe nf ole oko oe ole ole ole ole vfs ole ole ole ole ole ole ole ole ole she ole ole ole ole ole ole ole

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
OFS oe oe ve oho oe aon fe ae oe ene se ae oe ofe oh fea oe eae ne oe oe oe fe ae ae ae ae ae fe ae ale ale ake nfo oho feof fe ale ale ofeoge

SIC FLICS

Se

 

 

 

 

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP
QUICK SERVICE

 

 

 

e
© FORMAL WEAR °
: :
*
e °
= 2
2 @
@ =
= *
° and °
; Complete Formal Accessories .
e »
e The *
* COLLEGE TOWN 3
=
= Shope
Seceecoceccocecoccooeces

 

 

 

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
+

 

 

 

A personal invitation

“Thanks, Mr. Frobish-but I still think |
. I'd rather have CHESTERFIELDS!”

a ES

21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD ~THEY SATISFY

 

‘
;

IGAI El TES |

 
 
    
 

VERS TOBACCO CO.

 

Route 60 East

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

test might go the other way dur-
ing its early stages. The Generals
were stopped several times in the
first half by the inspired Sewanee
defense after marching deep into
scoring territory.

The best the Big Blue could do
was a field goal, and they didn’t get
that until midway through the sec-
ond period. At this point, halfback
Jim Russ took advantage of a back
wind to boot a 36-yarder that gave
the Generals a 3-0 lead.

In the second half, however, it
was a different story as the fresh-
er W&L charges dominated the
game. Charley Gummey returned
a punt 39 yards to the Sewanee
19-yard line, sending the stalling
General offense into gear for the
first time during the afternoon.
W&L moved to a first down in two
plays. Then quarterback Steve
Suttle, starting on the nine yard
stripe, found a spot behind a wall
of W&L blockers and_ scooted

 

untouched into the end zone.
Doug Martin smashed off tackle
for the two point conversion and
the Generals led 11-0.

The Washington and Lee defense
held explosive Sewanee, Generals
Terry Fohs and Bill Wheeler spark-
plugging the resistance, until the
offense took over again in the fourth
stanza. The Big Blue moved 38
yards in seven plays to set up a
four-yard scoring plunge by Tommy
Keesee. Gummey pushed the W&L
advantage to 19-0 on the conver-
sion.

W&l Stomps Sewanee For llth Win In Row

Lone Score

Sewanee, weary of their failure to
gain on the ground against the
stubborn General defense, took to
the air and found—as have several
W&L opponents—the going a little
easier. The Tigers connected on five
of six passes, the last one a seven-
yard toss that was good for the lone
Sewanee tally. The losers added two

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

   

On Campus sii.

(Author of “Barefoot Boy With Cheek’ , “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’ , etc.)

    

IT’S LATER THAN YOU THINK!

All year long you’ve been promising yourself to go there. Now
the semester is nearly over and you still haven’t set foot in the

place. Shame on you!

But it’s not too late. Right now, this very minute, before
you weaken, lift up your head and forward march to the place
you have been avoiding ever since school began. I refer, of

course, to the library.

Now here you are at the library. That wasn’t so bad, was
it? Of course not! Go inside. What do you see? A sign that says
“NO SMOKING.” Go outside. Light a Marlboro. Smoke.

Go back inside.

Because now you are ready. Now your trembling resolution
is rigid. Now your pulsing psyche is serene. You have been
calmed by mild Marlboro. You have been soothed by that fine
selectrate filter, by that fine full flavor that dotes and pampers
and caresses, that lifts the fallen, repairs the shattered, straight-
ens the bent, unravels the knotted, rights the askew, and

fastens the unbuttoned.

In the center of the library you see the main circulation desk.
Look in the card catalogue for the number of the book you
want, write the number on a slip, and hand it to the efficient
and obliging young lady at the desk. The efficient and obliging
young lady then gives the slip to an efficient and obliging page
boy who trots briskly back into the stacks, curls up on a limp
leather encyclopedia, and sleeps for an hour or two. Then,
puffy but refreshed, he returns your slip to the efficient and
obliging young lady at the desk, who tells you one of three
things: a) “Your book is out.”’ ’b) “Your book is at the bindery.”

c) “Your book is on reserve.’

Having learned that the circulation desk hasn’t the least
intention of ever parting with a book, let us now go into the
periodical room. Here we spend hours sifting through an im-
posing array of magazines—magazines from all the far corners
of the earth, magazines of every nature and description—but
though we search diligently and well, we cannot find Mad or

Playboy.

 

   

SHE: Whatcha readin’

“Sl binned dll ,

Next let us venture into the reference room.

Here in this
hushed, vaulted chamber, we find the true scholars of the
university —earnest, dedicated young men and women who care
for only one thing in the world: the pursuit of knowledge.

Let us eavesdrop for a moment on this erudite couple poring
over heavy tomes at the corner table. Hush! She speaks:

, hey?

HE: The Origin of Species. You ever read it?
SHE: No, but I seen the movie,

HE: Oh.

SHE: You like readin’?

HE: Naah,

SHE: What do you like?

HE: Hockey, licorice, girls, stuff like that.

SHE: Me too, hey.

HE: You pinned or anything?

SHE: Well, sort of. I’m wearin a fellow’s motorcycle

emblem...

But it’s only platonic,

HE: Wanna go out for a smoke?

SHE: Marlboro?
HE: What else?

And as our learned friends take their leave, let us too wend

our way homeward—a trifle weary,

perhaps, but enlightened

and renewed and better citizens for having spent these happy

hours in the library,
* *

Aloha, library, aloha!

© 1961 Max Shulman
*

The makers of Marlboro, who sponsor this column, could
write volumes about another one of their fine products—
the unfiltered king-size Philip Morris Commander—but
we'll only tell you this: Take a leaf from our book. Enjoy a

Commander today.
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

40 Students Awarded Research Grants

(Continued from page 1)

Electrical Industry; Dr. Thomas P.
Hughes.

Calvin M. Morrow; Review of Li-
brary Holdings in Recent European
and Russian History to Determine
the Strengths and Weaknesses of the
Collection From the Undergraduate
Point of View; Dr. Thomas P.
Hughes.

John P. Harcourt, Jr.; Research in
Verbal Learning: Variables That De-
termine the Amount and Rate of
Learning; Dr. Leonard E. Jarrad.

Walfred B. Thulin, Jr.; Continua-
tion of Research on the Behavioral
Effects of Ionizing Radiations; Dr.
Leonard E. Jarrard.

Donald A. Stubbs; Research in
Learning Teory: The Role of Drive
in Learning; Dr. Leonard E. Jar-
rard.

Clarence M. Whitehead, Jr.; Re-
search in Learning Theory: Drugs
and Learning; Dr. Leonard E. Jar-
rard.

Philip Macon; Study of Manufac-
turing Processes and Marketing
Methods of Products of the Optical
Industry, Largely in the Georgia
Area; Dr. L. K. Johnson.

Stephen D. Hancock; Compilation
of a Bibliography on Clay Miner-
alogy and the Applications of Clay
Minerals as Environment Indicators;
Mr. Samuel J. Kozak.

Thomas M. Brownlee; Preparation
of a Bibliography for Anthropology
and Sociology Courses; Dr. James G.
Leyburn.

Edward D. Robertson; Modern

 

UCA Lectures To Discuss

Varied Ethical Problems
(Continued from page 1)

will be given by Dr. Thomas P.
Hughes of the history department on
the subject of Christianity and Com-
munism.

Dr. Hughes said that most Amer-
icans today do not have a clear idea
of how powerful Communism is as
a religion and not solely as an eco-
nomic force. His lecture will be
given on December 14.

 

Materials in Engineering; Mr. Henry
L. Ravenhorst.

Robert Roy Goodwin; A Study of
Newspaper Ecology in Terms of the
Prospects for Success or Failure in
Undertaking to Establish New Daily
Newspapers; Mr. O. W. Riegel.

David Gibson; Research in Unre-
ported and Partially Reported Cases
in the U.S. Supreme Court Before
1800; Dr. Wilfred J. Ritz.

James K. Hitch, Jr., and David H.
Wolthorn; Compilation of a Series
of Readings to be Published in
Booklet Form Which Eventually Will
Constitute the Text for a New
Course in Western Military History;
Major Edward J. Roxbury, Jr.

Bruce T. Houghton; Investigation
of the Synthesis of N-(3-Carbohy-
drazidopropanoly)-4-amino - ben-
zoic Acid and Its Carbonyl Deriva-
tives; Dr. James K. Shillington.

Sherwood W. Wise, Jr.; Design,
Construction, and Testing of Equip-
ment to Reproduce in the Laboratory
Structures of the Crust of the Earth;
Dr. Edgar W. Spencer.

Harold Allen Curran; Analysis of |

Stuart James Yoffe; Compilation |

to Planned Field Trips;
W. Spencer.

Rosewell Page; (1) Cataloguing of
Rockbridge County Historial Papers;
(2) Collection of Material for a Book
on the History of the R F & P Rail-
road; Dr. Charles W. Turner.

John H. Soper and Henry H.
in Large, Oriented, Single Crystals
of Very Pure Zine and Cadium; Dr. |
Edward F. Turner, Jr., and Dr.
J. Thomas Ratchford.

R. M. Auburn; Investigation of |
the Fused Salt System KNO3-
AgNO3-K2 CrO4; Dr. William J.
Watt.

Deke i fe

STARTS TUESDAY

 

 

 

 

SEN RSME Nis a3

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_HOBART 32-3424 |

 

 

WED. THUR. FRI. SAT.

In the high-adventure tradition!

   

= rans presents

TRAE sn

wan {ehOY-
FRED KOHLMAR
production

ORECTEO BY PRODUCED BY

“A CONSPICUOUS
CINEMA
ACHIEVEMENT.”

—Crowther,_
INGMAR BERGMAN'S N.Y, Times.

 

 

 

 

 

whe

Tree rors

: THE DUTCH INN?¢ :

; For Reservation Call
» MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

Ys fe ofe of of whe fe oe of o %
Mere rete sfeofertorte

and Lancer

America’s First Fine
ECONOMY CAR
*

eee ede edtetentebtes
Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC,

alata tallied
:
Phone HObart 3-3146

SSS. DD. SS. SS. SS. SS. Se.

 

 

 

4
Dodge and Dodge Dart?
frets

 

+
%
4
%

 

 

over twenty different

Block and

Your favorite

delicious Sealtest ice cream

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
To get the best get Sealtest”

products in addition to

Crushed Ice

mixes—Ice Cold

 

OO OOOO OOOO OOOO OS EO OOOE SSO OOEEEOOO OOOO OO EEELOSEEEE

Shirt Service

HO

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

**Your Campus Neighbors”’

as You Like it

3-3622

*

Data Obtained in the Madison!
Range, Montana; Dr. Edgar W.|
Spencer.

of a Bibliography on the Geology of |
the Piedmont as a Preliminary Guide |
Dr. Edgar |

 

Knight; A Study of the Slip Systems |

at
Se a ee ee

J. D. Cravens, M. H. Hulbert; In-
vestigation of Lecture Demonstra-
tions in Freshman Chemistry and
Development of New Demonstrations
Where Needed; Dr. William J. Watt

and Dr. John H. Wise.
John M. Roper; Determination of
Depole Moments of Some _ ICI-

Amine Charge Transfer Complexes;
Dr. Robert D. Whitaker.

Russell B. Miller; Investigation of
Nitryl Chloride and Related Nitro-
gen Compounds; Dr. John H. Wise.

Edward B. Eadie, Jr.; Construction
of Models for Classroom Use of
Crystal Structure and the Forma-
tion of Molecules Dr. John H. Wise.

K. A. Marchant, Jr.; To Adapt
Electromagnet for Paramagnetic
Sus ceptibility Determinations for
Use as an Experiment in Physical
Chemistry; Dr. John H. Wise.

Dr. John H. Wise; To Assemble a
Kit With an Oscilloscope and One
With an Electronic Tube Tester.

 

 

‘Pomona Tops Quiz Team
(Continued from page 1)

the Pomona team, when receiving
| the retired champion cup. He said in
effect that Washington and Lee
| Should be congratulated on sending

| such a fine team made up of bright
young men.

The principal defect in the Wash-
ington and Lee team seemed to be
the lack of experience that the

|W&L team had. This sometimes

prevented the team from making
“educated guesses” on the toss-up
questions. The ability to do this
accurately, some of the quiz bowl
| scholars pointed out, comes with re-
peated appearances on the program
| and a familiarity with the system.

 

» NEW TOWN INN $
= e
¢ Short Orders—Lunches §
° Catering to Students >
Seccecocooooeseooocoooses

 

 

Richard Fletcher To Speak
On Fraternities To Frosh

Fraternity pledges will hear a
discussion on “The Purpose and
Function of Fraternities’ by Rich-
ard Fletcher, chief executive of Sig-
ma Nu, Thursday night in Lee
Chapel at 7 p.m.

The discussion, planned by the
IFC, will emphasize the benefits of
pledge-training, fraternity member-
ship, and what the fraternity can
mean in later life. “It is hoped that
Mr. Fletcher’s talk will help clear
up some of the misunderstanding
freshmen receive of what a frater-
nity should stand for,” Bob Doenges,
IFC president, said.

Distinguished by a background of
varied experience, Mr. Fletcher was
selected for the chief office of Sig-
ma Nu Fraternity three years ago.
He assumed his post after 19 years
on the staff of the University of
Virginia in various administrative
positions.

He attended Penn State, the Uni-

 

Notice

Cranston Williams, former general
manager of the American Newspaper
Publishers Association will speak
Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Payne 6.

Sponsored by Sigma Delta Chi,
national journalistic society, Mr.
Mr. Williams’ topic will be “Legal
Problems of the Press.”

versity of Chattanooga, and UVa.,
majoring in English Literature and
journalism. The winner of several
academic scholarships, he was elect-
ed to membership in Omicron Delta
Kappa, Phi Delta Kappa (education
honorary), the Sphinx (Penn State
honorary), and the Raven Society
(UVa. academic-leadership honor-
ary).

After two years on the editorial
staff of the Chattanooga Times, Mr.
Fletcher served eight years as Di-
rector of Athletics and head coacn
of football at Virginia’s largest high
school in Norfolk, where his teams
won several state championships. He
continued his interests in English
and journalism by combining his
coaching with teaching.

 

Fohs Named Week’s Star;
Cited For Fierce Tackles

(Continued from page 3)

play against Randolph-Macon.

Against Sewanee, Saturday, Fohs
not only excelled in the tackling de-
partment, but he squelched the first
Tiger scoring drive by intercepting
a Wallace Pickney pass.

Recently elected to Who’s Who in
American Colleges and Universities,
Fohs is also on the General la-
crosse team in the spring.

 

W&L Rolls 26-8
Over Sewanee

(Continued from page 3)
extra points on a quarterback keep-
er.

Washington and Lee managed
another touchdown in the closing
seconds of the game. Holding Se-
wanee on downs, the Generals
gained possession on the Tiger 20
with half a minute remaining.
Martin pitched a payoff pass to
end Buck Ogilive on the next play.
Russ’ placement climaxed scoring
for both teams.

The General feeling by W&L
coaches and players indicated that
the Generals turned in a satisfactory,
but not outstanding, performance
against the Tigers. Most players said
Sewanee was not as tough as Emory
and Henry, which fell to McLaugh-
lin’s men here two Saturdays ago.

And most of the players felt
cautiously optimistic about the
two teams remaining on the sche-
dule. Neither Frederick nor Wash-
ington has been very successful
this year, but the Generals are
reluctant to judge them at face
value. As one player put it, “We
should beat them, but then you
can never tell about a football
game. We’ll have to play our best.”
W&L is expected to be at full

strength for this week’s home en-
counter. No serious injuries were
reported after the Sewanee game.

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
*

Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531
14 South Randolph

 

 

 

THE BELL TELEPHONE
SALUTE: BILL PIGOT

Six years ago Bill Pigot graduated from college with an
engineering degree. Today he is responsible for the
performance of 12 microwave relay stations, numerous
communications cables, and other equipment.
supervises the work of some sixty transmission specialists.

He also

 

 

COMPANIES

STUDENTS!
Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

Southern Inn

7

Bill Pigot of Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Company,
and the other young engineers like him in Bell Telephone
Companies throughout the country, help bring the finest
communications service in the world to the homes and

businesses of a growing America.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

 
