 

  

Clip: ilitng-tum

..!.‘"*.:‘zr“w.:"r.‘. a";‘z. if; . :3-..l“.u'; L;-.:=.' .1“ ta’
Vi’)V$5"ii3't'%1‘:'0;"3 ii L‘ i:‘WV$'H'l"Y
7...E"-"N3"-"CW, VA 30%

.r.‘+.‘<t

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsiTY’s BREAKING FLUEE NEws SOURCE

Iﬁlti

-4 VOLUME 103, No. 25

I:
‘.

if

V‘

LENINGRAD, VIRGINIA 227-311

APRIL EooL’s ISSUE

Spring term

jg abolished

By Thomas Goshen

REIAXA TION EXPERT

A 26-year-old tradition came to an end this week when
faculty members voted 127-43 to abolish Spring Term.

“I think that we’re moving away from our reputation as a
party school,”said Dean of the College Laurent Boetsch.
“This will help bring us in line with our peer institutions, and
help us recruit more serious students.”

Boetsch presided over the vote that made this Spring
Term the school’s last.

“The faculty have been ready to make this change for a
long time,” Boetsch said. “Plans for switching to two 15-

' week terms were drawn up two years ago.”

Faculty vocally supported the change. “Let’s be honest:
Spring Term is a six-week bacchanalia of booze and loose
behavior among co—eds,” History Professor J. D. Futch said.
“Look, we’ve got to be progressive here.”

Director of International Education William Klingerhofer
agrees.

“For years I’ve told the administration that we’ve hardly
been sending our best and brightest abroad,” Klingerhofer
said. “Because we won’t have (Spring Term) anymore, we’ll
only be able to send language majors with at least a 3.25
(grade point average).”

Art Professor George Bent said that he does not mind

j canceling future Spring Term trips to Europe.

“Pedagogical modiﬁcations have a distinct place in the
sociological society we call W&L,” Bent said. “And the
idea of a ‘Goshen term’ frightens me on many levels.”

The faculty and administration admit that it might now be
more difficult now to fulfill degree requirements.

“I suppose it may be a bit harder for current students,”
said Boetsch. “But they’re a transitional group anyway—
the administration has partially written them off.”

Student response to these changes has been unfocused,
particularly since the Executive Comrriittee failed to fulﬁll its
pledge to distribute a campus-wide survey to determine cam-
pus opinion.

“We sort of dropped the ball on this one,” said new Ex-
ecutive Committee President Robert Naftel, a, junior. “You
know, Fancy Dress really distracted us.”

“But we had that survey, right,” N aftel said. “Now that’s
sending a message.”

Former EC President John Comly was busy writing page-

V length editorials to The Trident, and could not be reached

for comment.

The Students Rights Committee, originally formed to pro-
test the administration’s alcohol policies, has adopted this
issue and is planning demonstrations.

“We do not advocate destruction of property,” said SRC
President Braxton Bragg. “But we can also not be respon-
sible for the actions of more zealous members.”

Several of those members have targeted Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison, who suggested the change four years
ago. Howison is chair of the Faculty and Undergraduate
Calendar Kickoff, an organization dedicated to promoting
positive coverage of the transition from three terms to two.

SEE ‘SPRING TERM,’ PAGE 2

SAE house converts to Biosphere

By Granola Boy

H 0 USING REPORTER

For decades, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity house has been a breeding
ground for doctors, lawyers, and captains
of industry. Now, the former fraternity house
will become a breeding ground for over
200 species of ﬂora and fauna and home
to a team of six Outing Club members, who
will enter the renovated house next Au-
gust to begin a nine month sequestration
in a self —sufficient, contained ecosystem
that’s being called Biosphere III.

“We’re excited about the opportunity.

to expand our environmental program,”
said Outing Club head Nick Tatar. “We’ve
been looking forward to this for a while.”

Plans for the Biosphere were initially
set for the Troubador Cinema, but with
the fraternity’s suspension, administra-
tors gave the go-ahead to the program, a
joint venture of the Outing Club, the En-
vironmental Studies Program, and the
Dean of Students’ Office.

“We’re preparing for the year by
studying ecology and watching the hi—
larious Pauly Shore/Stephen Baldwin ve-
hicle Biodome,” participant Lucas Jack-
son said. “I can’t wait to kayak through

the dining area. Yeah, bad ass. High ﬁves
all around.”

Junior Biology major Erma Gordimer
was enthusiastic about the opportunity
to demonstrate ecologically sound liv-
ing to the W&L community.

“Yeah, like, everyone just needs to
chill out and love Gaia. And don’t forget
to recycle.”

SAE members were frustrated with
what they see as yet another setback for
the fraternity.

    

FORWARD HO. Outing Club members scope out their new quarters.

Junior Jimmy Brumbaugh expressed con-
cern for the future. “Like, even if we get
the house back, now it’s gonna stink. Have
you ever been over there (the Outing Club
house)? It’s like some sort of mutated blend
of patchouli, body odor, and rotting
leaves.”

Other members were more understanding.

“I understand the program, and since
we can’t use it for ourselves, why not let
them use it,” said sophomore Brian Stagg.
“Just don’t hurt the lions.”

photos by the Biscuit

Pillow ﬁghts draw interest

By Leer Letcher
PEEPING TOM

Another study on the connection be-
tween crazy college co—eds and pillow ﬁghts
here at Washington and Lee was released
Friday by Brown University’s sociology de-
partment.

The study shows thata startling 37 per-
cent of undergraduate females have partici-
pated in a pillow fight in the past academic
year. And 73 percent of those responding
“yes" to the pillow fight question reported
that they may have been less than fully
clothed at the time of the ﬁght(s).

These ﬁgures are a striking increase from
a similar study done in 1989. Though the
earlier study focused on the tendency of

, sorority versus non-sorority women to give

each other hot oil baths, research coordina-
tor Betty Smith maintains that the figures
are relevant.

“Either way, it’s about whether or not
women who join Greek organizations are
likely to engage in mildly erotic behavior.
It’s a matter of ﬁnding out whether artistic
depictions of sorority life — like the senii—
nal USA Network ﬁlm ‘Sorority Girls on
Spring Break’ — are interpreting the mod-

Area kids
go to camps

By Rita Book

STAFF D0-G00DER

The Rockbridge Education Association
announced on Monday that it would go
ahead with plans for the controversial new
“Read or Else” literacy campaign, in which
schoolchildren from Lexington and
Rockbridge County will be rounded up and
sequestered in several hastily constructed
Intensive Reading Centers.

The program, first announced in the fall,
initially drew harsh criticism from parents and
educators for the draconian measures it pro-
posed to take. In order to bring them up to
newly-raised Standards of Learning, se-
lected students will enter a designated IRC
for a six-week program of literacy training.
Outside contact will not be allowed.

Some parents have been worried by tales
of “marathon reading sessions,” in which
shifts of volunteers, reading to the children,
rotate for up to 12 hours. An enthusiastic
volunteer confirmed this rumor.

“On the last night of the ﬁrst six week ses-
sion, we stayed up all night, continually reading
aloud the children’s favorite books. We were all
pretty tired,” Glasgow resident David Crawford
said. “But luckily we had a lot of volunteers to
help out with the reading and going around
making sure the kids weren’t falling asleep.”

Two students, a third grader and a first
grader, were sent to the Stonewall Jackson
Hospital that night to be treated for symp-
toms of extreme sleep deprivation.

At the latest round-up of sub-par stu-
dents, protesters had gathered with signs
outside the IRC. J

One angry bystander could barely sup-
press her frustration.

“They’re taking children from mothers,
separating families,” said Rockbridge Baths
resident Allison Jeffcoat. “I just don’t know
what they think they’re doing.”

An unidentiﬁed volunteer, overhearing
her remarks, leaned into the woman’s face
and began screaming. “We’re making the
world a better place!” The exchange drew
cheers from other volunteers, who quickly
launched into an impromptu, a cappella ver-
sion of “We are the World.”

As the voices blended with the sobs of
separated mothers and children, one vol-
unteer summed up the day’s work.

“It feels so good to do something for
someone else,” said Lexington resident
Scott Gates. “It’s so great to see so many
people with that attitude, you know? It’s
like that attitude of, ‘We’re going to help
these people whether they like it or not.’
Such a great feeling.”

em sorority girl’s life correctly. And our
numbers show that they are.”

The “Girls Gone Wild” video company
agreed to sponsor the serious study in ex-
change for exclusive taping rights.

Researchers were reluctant to draw an
immediate connection between the pillow

_ ﬁght numbers and the recent addition of

ﬁve sorority houses.‘

But some observers say the connec-
tion is obvious. Alfred North White-
head, an emeritus professor of sociol-
ogy at Brown, argues that the jump in
erotic activity has been caused by an
increasing concentration of female liv-
ing quarters.

“First they built Gaines Hall, which
quickly became a hotbed of lithesome
young females. And there of course, the
tendency for erotic play, ahem, was greater
than in Woods Creek Apartments, where
the diffusion of living quarters and the pres-
ence of certain undesirables lends a decid-
edly un—erotic feel to the building. But the
sorority houses —— here we _have tender,
delicate, nubile young women, known to
each other, knowing each other, loving each
other, comfortable in their nakedness. And
they are not ashamed . . . ”

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

April FoOl’s Issue

 

J ti for laughs:

ut on time

 
     

 

 

 

PAGE 2

(‘Litre iliing-tum ilﬂlti

NEWS  

 

APRIL FOOL’S ISSUE

    

 

-mail General Notes 

Dalhouse released from custody

Dean of Freshmen Mark Dalhouse was released
yesterday from the custody of Yellow Brick Road, the
childcare center that borders Washington and Lee’s
campus. Earlier that day, Dalhouse was walking to-
ward the University Center when a worker, mistaking
him for a wayward child, lifted him and brought him
over the fence into the day care. “It was horrible,”
Dalhouse said. “They thought I was a four—year—old.”
Citing his dimunitive stature and childish demeanor,
employees of Yellow Brick Road repeatedly asked
Dalhouse where his mommy was and why he was
dressed up as such a handsome little man. Dalhouse
was ultimately signed out by Dean of Students David
Howison, returning to his office to attend to the pa-
perwork that had accumulated over his four hour ab-
sence.

Trident wins award

The Trident, Washington and Lee’s second oldest
newspaper, took second place in Rockbridge County’s
seventh annual High School Journalism Competition.
The contest is open to student newspapers of all
Rockbridge County secondary schools. The Tridenfs
editorial board issued a statement sayi.ng it was “sur—
prised and gratiﬁed” by the judges’ selection, the first
time in ﬁve years that the paper has placed. Their
certiﬁcate of recognition will be awarded later in April.
This is not the ﬁrst time this year that The Trident has
garnered outside attention. In January the paper was
approached by High School and College Newspa-
pers for Dummies for inclusion in its sixth chapter,
“I01 Mistakes You Should Never Forgive Yourself
For.” The Trident will illustrate 47 of them.

Comly celebrates self

lem with that, Phi boy?”

The day—long celebration ended with a bonfire on
the front steps of the Lee House, where Comly pro—
ceeded to threaten University President John Elrod.

“Come on out Johnny-pool What? You scared?”

Comly, surrounded by Macedonian mercenaries clad
in armor and holding eight—foot-long spears, merely
snickered and ate more mutton as dawn broke.

By EC Date Function

WE ’LL TELL You LATER

In an eleventh hour executive command, before ced-
ing power to Executive Committee President—elect Rob
Naftel, John Comly attempted to leave his mark on Wash-
ington and Lee by decreeing that a monument, inscribed
“to the everlasting glory of John Comly, Supreme Ruler
of the Feifdom of Washington and Lee University” be
erected on Stemmons Plaza.

“Al1 shall be hereto forced to pay his utmost respect
to my legendary presence on this campus,” Comly said
Friday. “Bring on the mutton and dancers.”

Comly was dressed in a bright red cloak with large
shoes that curled at the toe. He wore a large jeweled
crown as well.

A party ensued as several lute players took the stage
in duPont Auditorium. Comly then ordered the keydets
captured in last year’s Battle at Woods Creek to pro—
ceed with their dancing and giggled quietly to himself.

“I have expanded the borders of this empire beyond
any subj ect’s wildest dreams,” Comly said in a later
interview. “I have conquered all I want to. The gods
have surely smiled upon me. Who knew we could annex
enough land from the barbarian locals for the Gaines
Hall parking lot?”

On the last day, Comly also pardoned several people
up for honor code violations and took a chair and two
lamps out of the Executive Committee’s University
Center ofﬁce.

It was later discovered that the Alpha Betas had
donated $550,000 to Comly’s statue fund. Surprisingly
enough, Alpha Beta brother Patrick Nix was among those
pardoned. Comly denied any wrongdoing.

“I looked at the facts, and thought to myself,
‘Hey, why not pardon this guy.’ Do you have a prob-

ge

l « » - p
Hrs HIGHNESS. John Dexter Comly, in bronze.

RETIREMENT  MUTUAL ruuns 

When you're investing for retirement, the adage

doesn't apply to taxes.

can add up to significantly more money for you—
money you can use to supplement your pension and A
Social Security.

deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax-saving solutlons—along with TIAA-CREF’s
low expenses and solid history of performance—can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

Tax- deferred solutions
from TLAA-CREF can

help you reach your
retirement goals faster.

"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today’

That’s because investments that aren't eroded by taxes

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be

 

 

 1'u|’Tl0NF|NANElNG‘

Administration
ends all fun

By Ramada Inns

STAFF HOTEL CHAIN

University President John Elrod announced Friday the
administration’s decision to end all fun on the Washington and
Lee campus.

“It’s just gone too far,” Elrod said. “No more fun.”

Students have been expecting the move for a long time.
Recent administration decisions to end drinking games in fra-
ternity houses, curb Wednesday night parties and other intru-
sive measures proved to be just a warm—up.

“Man, this sucks,” said junior Richard Marx. “I was
just starting to smile Saturday, when Baner came up and
hit me with a nightstick. Guess I won’t smile or laugh
anymore.”

Elrod said fun has routinely interrupted the University’s
official policy of indoctrinating students and being un-
fun.

Measures to stop fun include killing all cute creatures around
campus, painting University buildings black, blocking Internet
porn and beating those who smile.

“Finally! I’ve been waiting for this along time,” Journalism
Professor John Jennings said. “If there’s one thing I know how
to do, it’s how to be un-fun. People taking Scorsese can expect
whippings every day. Ohh yeah! Whippingsl Woo hooo!”

Student hang-outs like the Palms and Oasis will be con-
verted to medieval nunneries. That’s right, medieval nunneries.
Stop smiling. Now.

‘SPRING TERM’

FROM PAGE 1

lHowison’s office was broken into, his baseball card selec-
tion scattered/, and his Sailor Moon collection stolen.

“This has /gone too far,” said Howison. “Today I got Sailor
Mercury’s head in the mail.”

Howison has asked for a security officer to be stationed
outside of his window to prevent noisy protests or another
window being broken.

The theft has not changed his position, Howison said.

“I agree with both sides of the issues and with everything
everyone is saying,” said Howison. “But our wonderful, en-
lightened, forward—looking President (John) Elrod has spoken.”

Upon being told that the faculty voted on the calendar,
Howison asked not to be quoted.

The theft of Howison’s belongings has cast a pal] on what was
supposed to be a day of triumph for faculty and administrators.

“Hey, I’ve got something to say,” Boetsch said. “If you
don’t like_(Spring Term), leave. We really don’t give a damn.”

.‘.. <2

TAX DEFEHHAI. MAKES A DIFFERENCE

$102,068

Tax-deferred savings after taxes‘

 

 
 
  

$67,514

Aﬁenax savings

     

per month I y

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $ 100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart a ve is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reﬂect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any 'I'IAA-CREF account, or
reflect expenses.

 

_ it 'Be_’co”mve 
' talented professiionalsli
City's under-pserfo"rrnving

A A

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it.“

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa—cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. - T1AA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products,
0 Teachers insurance and Annuity Association (T lAA), New York, NY and TlAA-C REF Life insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. - TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 0'1/04

  

  

experience required  ,
"fully paid~lVlasiter"s~g ‘g-reel. ‘Helpjusqgiv
H or education they‘de‘s'etv~e.Q;A3pp:lI '

 
   
    
   
 

' {each in New
.. ﬁr bu;

 

 

   

* R11. FooL’s ISSUE

Oii">“iii%‘ioN

PAGE 3

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

onservative
olumnist bares soul

Throughout the year, I have been chastised and
ocked on many occasions for my conservative ide-
'als. Some merely call them radical. Others label them as
acist, bigoted, and misogynist. All these attacks are
jinderstandable from people whose sense is clouded
.-‘I blind adherence to liberal orthodoxy. However, one
riticism I cannot tolerate, one that strikes much too
deeply, is the charge of homophobia.
4 After “Three cheers for Vermont and democracy,”
hich made plain the many reasons why homosexual
nions are a bad idea, for families, for children, and for
America, I received a very nasty letter which implicitly
-4 cused me of being insensitive and even outright
fl ostile to the homosexual community and their needs.
was crushed because I had made well—reasoned, well-
supported arguments and the letter’s author resorted
'to baseless ad hominem attacks. It hurt most of all be-
Sause, you see, I am gay. »

I find many kindred spirits in the Republican party,
but I associate most of all with the Log Cabin Republi-
cans, a group founded in 1978 in response to the
pation’s first anti-homosexual ballot measure,

California’s Proposition 6. Our activism allowed Reagan
A to denounce the measure publicly and it was soundly
— defeated. Today, the Log Cabin Republicans or LCR,
represent values of free enterprise, small government,
Yndividual freedoms, and equal rights for all. We repre-
sent the fact that homosexuals will no longer voteiin
lockstep for liberals.

For all Americans, we represent a choice. A choice
{,0 reject the intolerance of the radicalmoral conserva-
tives and join with Republicans due to their support
for fiscal conservatism, a strong national defense, and
less intrusive government.

    irwan comes out

lated crimes. We applaud these efforts and hail those
Republicans unafraid to challenge the bigotry still
present in some corners of the party.

My writing has one goal and that is to demonstrate
that conservative and Republican ideals are not in-

We have made great strides
ollowing the election of Presi- 
_i ent Bush. Attorney General 
" ohn Ashcroft, thought by many

  
   
 

  
 

woolored Elephant
Brett Kirwan ’04

compatible with the homosexual
agenda. We can fight for equal
rights while ﬁghting for policies
that benefit us all, tax cuts, mis-

   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 

o be a backwards religious
" zealot, met with our organization to address and dis-
_ niss our concerns which had been fed by the biased

reporting of the liberal media. President Bush has re-
. ently created a new AIDS Coordinator who sits on
he White House Domestic Policy Council and Senator
‘ordon Smith of Oregon has introduced a bill to in-
rease local enforcement of laws relating to bias—re—

irls are icky, icky, icky. If I
i ate them I’m going to hell

. | What a weekend! No, I wasn’t one of those ungentle-
, manly sinners at Fancy Dress. I’m talking about the Gen-
‘ erals Christian Fellowship teen ab-

sile defense, and tort reform.

Prejudice is something that my brothers and I face
every day. It comes from both sides of the aisle. So
when you read next week’s article, do so with a new
understanding and attempt to put aside your anti-con-
servative prejudice. Only if her citizens enter into our
national dialogue with an open mind can American truly
become one.

entlemen don’t date girls

bodies against girls when they dance. But, after the rally,
I realized that they’re not as cool as they think are. I know
some W&L students may not think resisting your body’s
sinful urges is all that “coolio,” but man, oh, man, are they
wrong! Totally!

Let me let you in on a little secret: When I feel evil,
demon—planted desires deep within

 
  
  

jtinence rally!
In this column, I’d like to share
what I learned there. This is espe-

Not Until.Marriage
Van Dos ’04

my loins, I just think, “soon my par-
ents will let me marry and I can do
God’s work and seven or eight babies

  
  
 
   
  

cially important, since sometimes at
W&L, students use peer pressure to get you to “do it.”
‘ \ 0 one has ever asked me to, but if anyone ever did, I
could see myself tempted to go along.

You see, I used to wish I was one of those frat boys
I who “go out” with dates to Fancy Dress and press their

@112 ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Good Cop Emily “Biscuit” Barnes
Bad C01? Stephanie Bianco
Chief Bey-arch Matt McDermott
Staﬂ Sharp Dresser Max Smith
Richardson Appeaser Mike Agnello
Editor of Thoughts Tara Frieda]
Resident Communist Brett “Das Kapital” Kirwan
Chauﬂering Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Trident Story Supplier Jeremy Franklin
Un-Funny Edimr Bryan “Strip Tease” Early
Old Copy Editrix Heather MacDonald
Rarely Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden
Photography Editrix Mary Guy
Staff Moneybag & Pimp Paul Seifert

Squirrel Handler Charlie Tonelli

Unlike other student newspapers we could mention, ’
The Ring-tum Phi is published reguarly, never making up
lame stories about “computer crashes” or forgetting to
come out at all. As the pride of Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia, administrators, faculty,
and students prostrate themselves before its all-
encompassing power. Deans have been known to shake
before its displeasure, and students sacrifice Abercrombie-
and—Fitch on its altars. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board ministers to the Executive Editors,
who hold the power of life and death in their hands.

The Ring-tum Phi is probably too good for you. No, it
definitely is. If you falsely deem yourself worthy, all
submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the
University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday so we have plenty
of time to laugh hysterically at them and throw them
away. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit
submissions for content and length. Letters and columns
do not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. Nothing reflects our opinion;
trust us, if you knew what we really think about you,
you wouldn’t be smilin’, honey. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity, bitch.

N The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
I Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu

http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

will issue from her womb.” Rad, huh?
It can work for you too!

Just imagine how special you’ll feel when you glorify
God within the confines of the holy matrimonial bed, im-
pregnating your wife to bring forward a new generation of
faithful servants of the Lord.

Women are a bit icky, but they do have a purpose,
otherwise God wouldn’t have made them. My youth rriin—
ister told me that they test men and see if they have what
it takes to join the “God Squad” — and that’s the coolest
team on the ﬁeld. Go, God! You’re the greatest! Woof,
woof, woof !

I don’t want to sound “down” on girls. I mean, I know
a woman who’s clean, thrifty, honest, reverent, tasteful,
well—dressed, daring, delightful, sexy, and a bit naughty.
'Iliat’s my mom, actually, and she’s ruined me for all of the
fallen women at W&L.

Well. . . I saw some girls at the GCF rally, which was
pretty darn exciting. Normally I just see them in class
or in the women’s pews at church. They never want to
talk to me, for some reason. Let me tell you how the
night ended, though, so you don’t suffer from impure
thoughts. See, because none of us had dates for FD
(not that we would have gone even if we were asked),
we all had pizza and soda pop! And we stayed out late
— until 10 p.m.! .

See? It’s possible to be gentlemanly and have a good
time at W&L. You don’t need to touch another person’s
body — or your own — to have a smashing good time!

TALKb ack: What’s your favorite Trident mistake?

  

“There were so many this year. . .
I can’t pick just one.”
—-— Emily Barnes ’0l

“Amanda McConnell

By Christine Metzger

The happy couple.

Mrs. Mama Cat is pleased to announce the engagement of her daughter Cat S. Comer to the fine Lord
B. Friend, who hails from somewhere on the other side of the Atlantic, is a graduate of Oxford University
and currently has his eye on a management poisition at Burger King. The bride-to—be, best known for her
work as a foot model, divides her time between being a rap—guy’s girlfriend and selling crack to fund her !
Internet porn addiction. A late summer wedding will be held at the Lee—Hi Chapel, Route 1 1, Virginia, where
Cat will be attended by a circus of midgets, a small Persian cat, and a pine marten. There will be no barefoot
hippies, and gifts will be accepted only if large and expensive. (Cash and major credit cards also accepted;
$25 fee for returned personal checks.) The couple has plarmed a honeymoon involving tubing down the
Maury and committing petty larceny.

 

   

“The stories cut—off rriid-sentence. Oh, wait

“The fact that it’s published
and Liz Nelson.” — it’s gotta be the doctored front page every week.”
— Michael Crittenden ’01 photo, or maybe the ﬂexible print date. . . ” —Max Smith ’0l

— Stephanie Bianco ’0l

 

 

PAGE 4

S

@112 {King-tum iﬂht

PORTS

 
     

A day that will live in infamy‘, '

AUGUST 12, 1994

Stagnitta out as lacrosse coach

Miriello to take
over team for
duration of the year

By O.J.

THE JUICE IS LOOSE

In a move that came as a shock to
the Washington and Lee community,
men’s lacrosse head coach Jim
Stagnitta was ﬁred on Friday.

The move came just two days af-
ter the Generals defeated Roanoke 16-
4 to improve to 7-0 on the season, 2-0
in the Old Dominion Atl1letic- Confer-
ence. W&L is also tied for first with

defending champion Middlebury in
the latest USILA Division III poll.
“We felt that it was time for the
program to move on,” W&L athletic
director Mike Walsh said. “Jim has
done a lot of good things for the pro-
gram and the University, and we ap-
preciate his 1 l—plus years of service.”
Walsh also announced that head
football coach Frank Miriello, who
served as an assistant lacrosse coach
at W&L in the early 1990s, will take
over for the remainder of the season.
Stagnitta compiled a 129-41 record
in less than 12 years as the team’s
coach. In addition, the 1984 graduate
of Pennsylvania won six ODAC titles,
secured five NCAA berths, and pro-

duced 34 Division IH All-Americans.

Despite the success, Walsh be-
lieved that the decision was the right
one to make.

“Sometimes you just have to look
past the numbers,” Walsh said. “Even
though the only thing Jim hasn’t done
for our program is win a national cham-
pionship — and I’ll admit that he had
a good chance of doing so this year
— we felt that W&L men’s lacrosse
was not headed in the right direction.

“Call it a gut instinct, if you will.”

W&L players were both aston-
ished and bitter at the sudden ﬁring.

“This really doesn’t make any
sense,” an anonymous senior co—cap-
tain said. “Coach Stagnitta has built

From Big Lex to the big time

SI signs Trident columnist
Denbow to replace Reilly

By Marv Albert

STA FF NIBBLER

younger generation, which is what our magazine caters

to. We couldn’t be happier with our new situation.”
Denbow’s first column will appear in the May 7 issue.

Terms of the deal were undisclosed, but Colson described

the deal as including “a substantial amount of money.”
Although happy for Denbow, several members of the

Freshman Michael Denbow will soon leave The Tri-

dent for bigger and better things.

Sports Illustrated will announce this week that Denbow
will replace longtime columnist Rick Reilly in writing the
back—page column in the touted sports weekly, The Ring-

tum Phi has learned.

Reilly, author of “The Life of Reilly” colurrm that ap-
pears on the last page of SI each week, will remain with the
magazine in another capacity. While appreciative of the
joumalist’s contributions in 16 years as a senior writer, SI
managing editor Bill Colson feels that Denbow will bring
even more insight and wit to the table.

“Rick has done a fantastic job, but we feel that his
services could be better used elsewhere, like in ‘Inside the
NBA,”’ Colson said. “Michael is much more hip to the

W&L community expressed their sadness at having one
of the top writers removed from the local sphere.

“It’s going to be a tough adjustment, not seeing his column

on the back page of The Trident every week,” freshman Rick
Gazica said. “At least I’ll be able to keep up with his splendid
journalistic endeavors through my subscription to SI.”

Colson cited Denbow’s March 14 column, “Look out

Duke: Here comes Kentucky,” as a major sign that pointed
to hiring Denbow.

“That kind of college basketball analysis, you just don’t
find coming from a college freshman,” Colson said. “Un-
less you read The Ring—tu.m Phi, but that’s beside the

point. And picking Kentucky as the national champion?

Simply amazing.

“Our editorial staff was already discussing making the
hire, but that column really finalized the decision.”

Questions, comments, or suggestions? I
Contact Jeremy Franklin at X4060 or at phi@w|u.edu.

The Phi sports pages will return to regularly scheduled programming on April 30.

Study Outside
 Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute sponsors
an ofﬁczarnpus study program that
combines coursework in -reiigion,
philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbing, biking
and paddling.

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session: Aug. 27 —Dec. 10

Visit the CRT website to request an _application.

Castle Rock Institute

P.().. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 828~862-3759
WwW.castle - rock.0rg

 

     
    

   

CAMP COUNSELORS

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of

Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

  
   
  
   
  
 

  

  
   
  
 

    

  
 

Archery, Baseball, Basketball,,Climbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, lnllne-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

 

   

   

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

    

888-2-romaca I

www.campromaca.com

What are you doing

    

this summer?

Camp Greylock
for Boys.:

1 -8i00-842-5214

    
 
 

www_camggreylock.com

      
  
 

very solid foundations for the program
here, and the success we’ve had over
the past couple of seasons has been
unmatched in school history.

“We had a legitimate shot at a na-
tional title this year, but you can’t re-
move the coach in midseason and still
expect the team to play at its previous
level.”

Walsh would not comment on the
coaching possibilities for next season,
claiming that, “the team has experi-
enced enough of a shakeup for now.
We’ll save news of the future disband-
ment — er, future changes, that is —
to the program for after the season.”

Stagnitta was unavailable for com-
ment at press time.

WRESTLING

   
 
  
  
   
   
  

  

  
 
  
  
    

' photo unclaimed '
A NEW LOW IN PROPAGANDA. Discouraged by low attendance at

Washington and Lee sporting events, the athletic
department is attempting to bring out students via a
series of new promotions, such as Streakers’ Night.

 

IE’ Backpack
IE’ Passport

IE’ Eurailpas
re    

  
 
   
  
     
     
   

With a money—saving Eurail-
pass, you can make tracks in
Europe wherever and whenev-
er the impulse moves you.

  

l



‘ﬁe

   

5?

‘/9/%/9ﬂ7'lﬁ/@/%   :9

W0MEN’S NIT A variety of Railpasses are available, ‘
. S -1- 1 including: Eurallpass Youth Flex — -'
M  inners S:n'1\E:C:l24 Travel any _10/15 days in 2 months

 43 (17 countries). $458/599*

NeWMexi°° 68 |‘2E {ail Eu rope

Sun.,March25

James Madison 65 T I

Ohio State 74 L V a V3 ‘___,

Champiomhip America's Leader in Student Travel

Losers gl:.d"S1\t/2I12l:Ch 28 62 1 — 8 0 0 -2 Clo u n c I‘
10 . .

NCWMCW) 61 www.counciltravel.com

*Must be under age 26 on first day of travel.

  

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

B. J. ‘S IS PROUD TO ANNouNcE
THE ADDITION or MONTECIZQTO
2; OBUSTOS To OUR HUMIDOR AND
OUR ALREADY FINE SELEcTIoN or
CIGARS.

TIME You ARE DOWNTOWN.

         
   
    
   
     

 

 E

PLEASE STO? IN NEXT

l§» if-3 

’ TUESDAY ANDWEDNESDAY NIGHT
. ARE STILL THE POOL TOURNEY
NIGHTS ATB. J. ’S. TRY voure

    
   
  
 

FUN!

 ssssswss  

 

  

 A/m/wﬂw//M/

SKILL. HAVE SOME

1 6 oz. T-BONE STEAK W/BAKED POTATO AND
MIXED GREEN SALAD $ 6.50

,(..

    
 
 

