 

 

W‘

V

WASHINC-TC]l\l 3: L.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

      

IAMIES3  L‘-’_’.r\./I as ;i- ‘N L.%:.‘«"”~‘A:??‘«‘
1: :)wVt!R:s:”W:

LEXi?\i(’$ YEN. Vﬁ "=‘¢‘5-‘I77

MA?’ ‘I 8 2000

I

U112 ifting-tum {ﬂirt

VOLUME 103, No. 4

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 15, 2000

Buffalo Creek

‘set to rock

_L

A.

Zollman’s again

Music festival returns to
W&L for year number nine

By Michael Crittenden
W&LIFE EDITOR

Washington and Lee students need to grab their
tents and wash their best tie-dye in preparation for the
Buffalo Creek Music Festival.

“I am psyched,” said junior Mary Jessica Jones. “Vir-

‘ ginia Coalition and The Disco Biscuits are two of my fa-

vorite bands.”
The annual festival, held out at Zollman’s Pavillion,
returns to Lexington this weekend for another event that

Q has become a deﬁning tradition of Spring Term. The

festival, also famous for bringing a little sense of
“hippieness” to Lexington, is organized by the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity. Though it was origi-
nally a Student Activities Board event, the SAB no
longer takes the role now ﬁlled by SAE.

“The Student Activities Board is contributing money,
but that’s the only role we’ve taken,” said SAB represen-
tative Lauren Ivanick.

This year’s band lineup is very impressive accord-

’ ing to event coordinator John Hope, a senior SAE. On

Friday May 19th, Washington and Lee favorites Baaba
Seth and The Disco Biscuits will kick offthe weekend.
Baaba Seth will start around 8 p.m., and The Disco Bis-
cuits will follow around 10.

Baaba Seth plays a brand of tropical funk described
as “awesome” by fans, while The Disco Biscuits are
more of a “jam-band” according to sophomore fan Kyle
Hankey. He became a fan after the band played what
Hankey described as about-a four-hour jam session at
last year’s show.

“I saw them for the first time last year at Buffalo Creek,”
Hankey Said. “They played a really good show — I hope
they’ll be able to do it again.”

Saturday wiil featurean extended line-up starting at I
p.m. with Boogie Solution, and local favorite Virginia Coa-
lition will follow at 3: 15. Smokin’ Grass will play at 5 :30p.m.,
then Hipbone at 8, and ﬁnally the Lake Trout band will
ﬁnish off the weekend with their performance beginning at
10:30 p.m.

“I love them because they are hot and it’s just re-
ally fun music,” said one junior girl about Virginia Coa-
lition. “They play something and you like it automati-
cally.”

The weekend is famous for the hordes of students and
locals who make a pilgrimage to Zollman’s Pavillion,
most camping out for the weekend in tents, in their SUVS
and on the ground under the stars. Students often bring
a number of lawn chairs, chaise lounges and the infa-
mous Crazy-Creek chairs.

Students never know what to expect at the event.
Freshman Katie Anlyan said that she is ready to expe-
rience her ﬁrst Buffalo Creek.

“I hear it’s a blast,” she said. “Zollman’s is a great place
for a party, and there’s always something interesting that
happens there.”

The most famous of the weekend traditions is the
annual burning of the couches on Saturday night. Se-
niors and other students bring their old couches to be
sacriﬁced to the ﬂames in a gigantic bonﬁre.

Student reaction to the band list and to the upcoming
weekend in general has been quite positive, and students
seem to be looking forward to the weekend.

“It is always such a great time; a chance for us (stu-
dents) to shed our proper facades and go out and spend a
weekend in the mud. . . listening to some good bands,”
said one junior male. “And listening to a band while sitting
in the creek drinking "a beer sure as hell beats a sweaty frat
basement.”

Second annual Nabors Service Day a Success

Students come together to
serve the community in
classmate’s honor

By Alexis Yee-Garcia

NEWS EDITOR

Almost 200 volunteers came out to help in over 15
different projects for the service day Saturday in memory
of Jonathan Nabors. Nabors and his younger sister,
Leah, died in a car crash on I-81 last year when Nabors
was returning to W&L after winter break.

“Jonathan was such a caring person, it seemed like a
service day would be an appropriate way to remember
him,” said sophomore Stacy McLoughlin of her class-
mate.

McLoughlin coordinated Saturday’s events and
helped the Freshman Leadership Council organize the
freshman service day last year.

“It was great to see so many more people this year,”
Mike Reynold, Nabors’ former roommate, said.

Jonathan’s parents, Eddie and Doris Nabors, also
came out to welcome volunteers and remember
Jonathan’s time at W&L. They have also made a com-
mitment to come out for any other service days in the
future.

“We knew at the time of the accident that something
good had to come of it,” said Eddie Nabors. “And he
was in heaven here. Before he’d even been accepted he
was wearing his W&L tie.”

This year’s service day was in part the result of grow-
ing interest in the Nabors Service League and the
Nabors Network, two groups formed to promote com-
munity service and interaction among service organiza-
tions.

“I think it’s a wonderful thing,” said freshman Becky
Johns, co-coordinator of the special projectsportion of
the Nabors Service League. “The Nabors Service League
has really helped us get organized and get together
with other service organizations.”

Students received a commemorative T-shirt in ex-
change for a suggested donation of $12 to $15. Doria-
tions for the T-shirts combined with money raised at
the service day car wash amounted to over $1,200 and
"will be donated in Jonathan’s nameitoa charity of his
parents choice.

Volunteers provided community service in everything
from painting local residents’ houses to putting on a
carnival for community Little Buddies, faculty children,
and other kids on the University Front Lawn.

Sophomore Quincy Springs gave up part of his af-

photo by Lisa Lin/Asst. Photo Editor
HELPING OUT. Freshman Emma Thomas helps
restore the Yellow Brick Road playground.

photo by Emily Bames/Ex utive- itor

FUN AND GAMES ON THE FRONT LAWN. Junior Lauren LaFauci gives a carnival attendee another
chance at winning a goldﬁsh at the Kids’ Carnival during Nabors Service Day

  

temoon to run around and get pelted with water balloons
as part of the carnival.

“I feel like a kid again,” Springs said.

The Kid Carnival was sponsored by ODK and several
ODK member:-. came out to help arrange the festivities.
Like Springs, senior ODK members Kelly Stewart and Jill
Kosch got to relive their youth, painting ﬂowers, rainbows
and stars on both the little kids and themselves.

“I guess I can sort of speak for ODK as a whole and I
think our purpose was two fold: to get us together in a fun
activity where we could make a difference,” Stewart said.

The ODK sponsored Kids’ Carnival was a perfect
example of what McLoughlin hopes the Nabors Net-
work will be able to achieve in the future; integrating
independent volunteers from the Service League with
sponsoring organizations. Interested organizations can
become part of the Nabors Network by contacting
McLoughlin and sponsoring projects. Individual stu-
dents can get involved with the Service League by ﬁll-
ing out volunteer information forms available in the
University Center or visiting the webpage at http://
volunteer.wlu.edu/nabors.css.

Memories of a close friend

Nabors’ high school
classmate shares
fond memories

S I remember bringing in the new year
of 1999 with him and a group of ﬁiends
on some middle-of-nowhere farm.

I remember driving home late that
night on the interstate, passing his car
at a high enough speed so as to get
his attention, and exhanging goodbye
waves.

Most of all, I remember thinking that
it would be the last time I’d see him for
a while, since he was driving to Vir-
ginia for his second semester at Wash-
ington and Lee in a couple of days.

Little did I know.

If you are from Virginia, chances
are you know about the massive ice
storm that hit that area during the

first few days of 1999, and maybe
you know about the 20-something
car wreck that resulted from the icy
roads there; it was a pretty big story.
Jonathan was somewhere in that
awful pileup with his younger sister
and his parents. Only the parents
survived.

It’s enough to make you wonder
what kind of God would wire workings
of the world so that a guy could die at
such a young age without ever cloud-
ing a moment of his life with the slight-
est trace of pessimism, without ever
having wasted an ounce of what gifts
he had received.

But I stop wondering when 1 real-
ize that Jonathan wouldn’t have won-
dered for a second.

Instead, I just watch the Crimson
Tide on TV and chuckle at the times
he’d tell me of his aspiration to be-

come one of the old men at U of 4

A games who arrive in RVs ﬁlled
with rolls of toilet paper and
boxes of Tide on sticks (Roll
Tide. Get it?).

I shared 13 years’ worth of
timeless experiences with
Jonathan Nabors. But amazingly,
whenever I find myselfthinking
about him —— everyday, in other
words —— the same frozen-in-time
image of him pops up in my mind
every time. It'is of him waving
goodbye as I passed him on the
way home on New Year’s, ﬂash-
ing me his trademaark disarming
smile that could have made any-
one forget about the world’s
grave injustices.

— Courtesy of Taylor Upchurch,
Washington University student
newspaper

Students, faculty end year on unifying note

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

Students and faculty are inviting the
entire W&L community’s participation
in activities to further promote cam-
pus unity.

Several students not afﬁliated with
a speciﬁc organization have arranged
a “Unity Dinner,” to be held May 16
from 5:30-6:30 pm on the Front Lawn.
Junior Anne Hazlett, one of the main
organizers of the event, said she hopes
the event will be well-attended.

“We’re just trying to end the year
on a positive note after all the nega-
tive events of this year,” Hazlett said.

“I think it’s great that students from
all cross-sections of the student body
can have an event to bring the entire
student body together,” newly-elected
MSA President Justin Arnold said
about the planned dinner.

Faculty are also making the effort
to involve the entire W&L community

in its new committee for inclusivity.

In its March 6th meeting, the fac-
ulty created the Faculty Task Force
on Inclusiveness, naming professors
Suzanne Keen and Robert McAhren
as co-chairs. According to the
committee’s report, their goal is “to
provide an immediate response to the
sexist, racist, misogynist, anti-Semitic,
and homophobic incidents of this
school year.”

Keen described the report as “ex-
traordinarily preliminary” and says
that the proposals outlined by the
committee are only recommendations.
The committee is currently request-
ing the help of all students, faculty,
and staff ﬁom both the law school and
the college to help outline speciﬁc
plans for their future actions.

“We hope to come up with more
substantive proposals, and welcome
any by students,” Keen said. “If they
just have a small idea, that would be
great.”

Keen says she is encouraged by
both the faculty and students’ efforts,
and is passionate about achieving di-
versrty.

“I have loved everything about
W&L since I came here. . . it pains me
that this experience that is so wonder-
ful for me leaves others behind,” she
said.

Keen said that the dinner and ﬁxture
efforts by students to promote unity on
campus are necessary to make the W&L
experience more enjoyable for everyone.

“We’ re very happy that those kinds
of things are happening,” she said.

Dinner organizer Thomas Field said
that the event will be a success if it al-
lows students of different backgrounds
to come together as a group and relate
on an individual basis.

“I’ve found that most people at
W&L have their heart in the right place.
. . an event like this helps actions be
more in line with values and beliefs,”
Field said.

@112 ilting-tum ilﬂlri

May 15,2000

OPINION:

“The Stepfather of Ecstasy”:
not a trip worth taking

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:

Women’s tennis and Men’s
lacrosse teams advance in
NCAA tournaments

PAGE 2

SAB Spring ﬂing is a Success AGE 3

PAGE 4

photcﬁiiﬁmy Friedel/l’lrto Editor
RACE YA. Two students climb
the rock wall last Thursday
at SAB’s Spring Fling.

 

PAGE 2

@112 itting-tum iﬂlii

  PINION

 

MAY 15, 2000

The hallucinogenic trip   

Thursday, May 11: On Monday afternoon, I ﬁrst
glimpsed the ﬂiers proclaiming “KNOWLEDGE —— Sasha
Shulgin at Washington and Lee.” The first thought that
struck me: “Who the heck is Sasha Shulgin?” Upon fur-
ther examination, I discovered that said Dr. Shulgin is also
sometimes known as “The Stepfather of Ecstasy,” whose
job description is “psychadelic chemist and author.” Oh
dear Lord, this sounded good. A ﬂood of questions
poured into my brain. First, why was he invited to speak
at W&L? What enlightenment could
he bring to the W&L community?
Most importantly, would there be any
free samples offered? I scribbled the
needed info into my notebook —
4:30p.m., the Dell, and vowed not to
let this opportimity slip into the obscure haze of apathy
into which all my other plans to attend lectures had wan-
dered.

The awaited day ﬁnally arrived, and I planted myself
on a conveniently provided chair in the Dell. Standing on
the stage was a short pudgy little man who (not so) coin-

cidentally reminded me of Jerry Garcia. Or your typical
mad scientist, take your pick. The lecture commenced.
The wild-haired Doc spoke and gestured as if he were on
crack-rock, or maybe his work with psychadelics had al-
tered his biological chemistry so that everything he does
is three times faster than the average human being. If you
didn’t already know all of the obscure nuances of
psychadelics, you probably would have been much like
me: Lost. DMDA? DMDT? I think those are both names
of drugs he made, but don’t quote me on that, I’m prob-
ably wrong. I caught maybe one word in ﬁve, and under-
stood maybe three complete ideas in the whole thing:

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

A lie cannot be believed or
aiding and abetting

Dear Editor, .

Thomas Carlyle, the great Victorian thinker, historian,
and prose prophet propounded many a silly idea and ad-
vocated many a lost cause in his years of preaching to his
fellow Englishman, but perhaps his central message was
this apparently oh-so-obvious but, nonetheless, slippery
little item, namely, my title - “A Lie Cannot Be Believed.”
Carlyle inveighed against numerous examples of society
accepting lies and living in terms of them — and raged against
that practice, proclaiming that ultimately such negligence
would lead to disaster.

It is surprising but true that we can come to live within
a lie much more easily than we might imagine; we can func-
tion happily in our willful ignorance because it is so tempt-
ing and so easy to avoid an obvious yet uncomfortable
truth. It is so pleasurable to have our cake and eat it too.
Carlyle’s assumption of the prophetic stance of denounc-
ing such behavior proved a dangerous one for him, and no

2 doubt will prove even more dangerous for me "- who pos-

sess none of his brilliance and can write with nothing of
his ﬁre. Even so I will assume such a position for just this
once - I will, for the fun of it, speak with anger and de-
nounce evil - and in this case the particular evil, the lie of
which I speak, is Spring Term.

Spring Term is a lie. It is simply not the case that the
average or typical or representative Spring Term course is
the equivalent of the average Fall of Winter course. Fur-
thermore, you the students do not want them to be. It is
thus a dishonorable, self—serving lie for Washington and
Lee officially to grant equivalent credit for courses taken
in the Spring Term. In doing so the administration and
faculty aid and abet the students in their vain desire to
“work hard and play hard.” The Spring Term is thus the

E112 itting-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Tiffany Friedcl
Lisa Lin ,

Neal Willetts

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo_ Editor
Layout Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, ‘but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: 830

1) Dr. Shulgin played with natural chemicals like mesca-
line, which is found in a drug commonly known as peyote.
Aﬁer manipulating incomprehensible things like benzene
rings in his laboratory of happiness, he tested them. On
himself. Not a bad profession, if you ask me.

2) Sometimes you can be messed up on some chemical,
and not know you’re messed up. However, I think we all
went through those Prevention and Life Management

courses in high school where they tell us, “Even if you .,
‘ think you are ﬁne after downing a =

couple beers, don’t drive, you are

a bunch of adult-type people who

one day decided, “What the heck,
let’s try this experimental drug and see what happens.”
Sure, okay. One of the men walked into a door trying to
hook up with a sexy lady who wasn’t really there, and then
proceeded to drive home and listen to non-existent songs
by his favorite band on a radio which wasn’t turned on.
Sounds like fun, doesn’t it?

3) The third point, which I’m not really even sure was
actually a point, involved some kind of people he called
“shamanotaxonomists” who listen to plants which tell them
what happens to people if they are consumed. Riiiiight. . .

Since Dr. Shulgin had a problem coordinating and express-
ing his own thoughts, I must sadly admit that I can impart no
particular wisdom from the psychadelic experience. How-
ever, I feel that I can recommend with some certainty that if
you are good at chemistry, and like taking drugs, then maybe
you should look into becoming a psychadelic chemist and
author. Personally, I left the lecture very unfulﬁlled in my
quest for “KNOWLEDGE.” Only one out of my three ques-
tions was truly answered. No free samples, darn it all.

apotheosis of this the greatest of all lies at Washington
and Lee: the ﬁtting but grotesque institutional legitimiza-
tion of a false belief: our unique idol and one which must
be broken. Down with it!

It is, of course, foolish to imagine that students will
cease to do too much, will cease their efforts to combine in
their years at W&L the maximum amount of academic work
and social pleasure, and will, in so doing, drive themselves
too hard, drink too much, become overwhelmed by the
courses, etcetera. But it is not foolish to argue that Spring
Term, the supreme institutional instantiation of this lie, a
lie that for a time dupes students into believing they can
do it all, a lie that succeeds by regularly giving them far
more credit than is their proper due, should be done away
with - loudly and forever and with great rejoicing. Student
sometimes seem shocked that anyone would seek to do
away with Spring Term, but you all know what a lie it is.
Now let me offer just one example of a better way for W&L
still to be W&L without the dishonor of this lie.

One possible solution - Imagine all the people

Thus the question becomes - what is the best way to
deal with the W&L tradition of “work hard and play hard?”
How can the W&L calendar honor both the school’s aca-
demic seriousness and its social traditions? I have no de-
sire to eliminate the “play hard” or to touch the Fraternities
and Sororities. Indeed I prefer a system in which the stu-
dents are in charge of their own social life and only indi-
rectly beholden to deans and administrators.

Nonetheless, I strenuously oppose pandering to stu-
dents’ desire to play hard and get credit for an education
by giving them lots of credit for little work. The Spring
Tenn solution is just such an unacceptable lie. It should be
abolished. A .

Moreover, the Winter Term with its beginning burdened
by Rush; its conclusion plagued by Fancy Dress, and the
regular bale of hay, known as Mock Con, that breaks the
poor camel’s back - is severely compromised in its aca-

demic seriousness - an academic watering-down that once
;again is aided and abetted by the institution.
Now I was an undergraduate at a very similar college up
‘North. At Amherst there were two fourteen-week temis
‘with a short interterrn in January: ofﬁcially we had a 4-0-4
system: the zero referring to the January term when the
students could be on campus, could take various informal
courses but for no credit, and could socialize without anxi-
ety.
Furthermore, I attended graduate school at Yale Uni-
versity which had the wonderful practice of a two-week
break in the middle of its fourteen-week Winter/ Spring Term.
Let us imagine combining these for Washington and Lee:
two fourteen-week terms, a short January intertenn, and a
two-week Spring vacation. Rush would take place during
the January interterin and would not be imposed on the
beginning of an academic semester; Fancy Dress would
take place at the end of the two-week Spring vacation and
would not be imposed on the working term. The students

not really okay, we promise.” This '
point involved an amusing story of ;

OH WHAT A LONG, STRANGE TRIP rT’s BEEN. Students listen intently as Sasha Shulgin shares his

  

photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant'Photo Editor

experiences and knowledge of psychadelic drugs in the Dell last Thursday.

would have a longer Christmas break; they could Rush
before they got back to work; they would have an ample
Spring vacation in which to travel, relax, and have their
Fancy Dress.

Thus there would be an elimination of the intolerable
impositions on the Winter term and the priceless gain of
four solid weeks ofreal academic time. Against this gain
would be the loss of six weeks of a lie - a pleasant lie that
allows greater diversity in course offerings, but a down-
right lie in its pretension that a typical course in those six
weeks is equivalent in work to a typical course in the twelve-
week terms.

There it is - you can work hard and play hard, but W&L
would no longer so egregiously aid and abet you in your
-lie. Rush and Fancy Dress would be pushed into your
extended break time, no more institutional sanctioning of
big-ticket distractions from the academic work. When the
dust settled, we would have a solid four weeks of real
academic time to replace six weeks of lying self-deception.

Well. . . I’ll Doff the Carlylean robes, and let you return
to your studying.

Sincerely,
Edward Adams
Associate Professor of English

RCHS student responds to
prom opinion piece

Dear Editor,

My name is Tania Jacobson and I am a senior at
Rockbridge County High School. I am writing to you be-
cause I not only read the article that Nathan Urguhart wrote,
but I went to prom with him. When I ﬁrst heard rurriors of
what was written I was indeed angry, however, after I read
and reread the article on my own, I found that most of what
the RCHS students are up in arms over was all uncalled for.
I have known Nathan ever since he was a freshman, and,
for a bit of insight on his character, whenever Nathan
speaks to you he does so with courtesy and ﬂattery. How-
ever, what sets him apart from a lot of other people is that
he isn’t putting on a big show, he really means what he
says.

I read the article, and I can’t say that I am offended. He
used sarcasm and even made good points about our school.
Where he pointed out something sketchy about the high
school, he compared it to something at W&L which was at
least equally sketchy.

I know that there were plenty of people wishing to voice
their concerns on his article, but I also know that a lot of
them haven’t even read the story. From what I have seen at
the school and heard, there is a lot of word-of-mouth ver-
sions of the piece. I also am sure that there are many stu-
dents who are out to take a jab at W&L when they can, as

A’
many think W&L are out of control snobs. I happen to
know that Nathan wouldn’t intentionally print anything
that might offend someone, although his article apparently
has. If a person is predetermined to ﬁnd something insult- *
ing they can do it.

What I don’t understand about RCHS is why they are
so worried as to what a small college newspaper has to say
in an opinion article. I hope that all of this is put to rest
before anyone gets their feelings hurt too much. ,3
Sincerely,

Tania Jacobson
RCHS Class of 2000

Linux protects against viruses ,
Dear Editor,

The article on the Love Letter virus published last week
contained several minor errors. The most grievous of these
is the statement that the only users on campus safe against
this virus are Macintosh users. This statement is absurd. 3
Almost as many users on campus employ the Linux oper-
ating system as the Macintosh operating system; These
users have far better protection against viruses than
Macintosh users.

As an example, I point to the computer science
department’s ﬁle and e-mail server. While most of the carn-
pus suffered from University Computing’s panicked e-mail
blackout (for almost an entire day), computer science stu-
dents could still access their e-mail accounts on the A
department’s Linux server.

Linux has a growing presence on this campus and while it
has not been embraced by University Computing, its obvi-
ous advantages over UC’s current Netware and Microsoﬁ
servers have led some departments, faculty, and students to I'-
move important network services from LEE, CUSTIS, and the
Groupwise servers to Unix machines. The Geology and Phys-
ics departments also use Unix/Linux servers.

Linux usage by students is also increasing as the oper-
ating system becomes easier to set up, conﬁgure and un-
derstand. -

Students who use Windows would not be affected by
LoveLetter if they avoid using Microsoft Outlook and ac-
cessing ﬁles corrupted by the virus. ,

In short, readers of the Phi should be aware that there
are many alternatives to the Macintosh which will help
them avoid contamination from LoveLetter and protect their
valuable MP3s and J PGs. Readers interested in protecting
their machines should examine the web for information on P
the measures they can take to enhance the security of their
machines. A great starting website is www.linux.org.
Sincerely,

Robert Marmorstein ’0l

TALKback: What are you doing afterSpring Term?

“Going toBeimuda, then I’m working in DC-
two months of nothing and only one of a jo .”
-Stephanie Sweet ‘02

“Life after graduation is still

a mystery.”
-Steven Straub ‘00

“I’m heading out West with the
roomies for a great adventure.”
-Sharmon Bell ‘00

 

“I’m living in DC, somewhere.
Getting a job, somehow.”

—Jordan Ginsberg ‘01 F

 

 

 

MAY 15, 2000

PAGE3

Spring ﬂing:
W&L’s ﬁeld day

Last Thursday, the W&L community was invited to take
a day and enjoy the sun with Spring Fling.

Spring Fling is sponsored by the Student Activities Board
(SAB) and is an annual event. This year, it was held on the’
grassy knoll between the gym and the faculty parking lot.

At 4 p.m., Poston Brown took the stage to start off the
day. They were later followed by the Zen Tricksters. Stu-
dents and faculty took advantage of this ﬁeld day reminis-
cent of grade school. Students scaled the rock wall, fac-
ulty raced for the first down on the inﬂatable football ﬁeld,
kids did jumps and ﬂips down the mammoth size slide, and
mixed pairs went against each other in the supersized box-

“The Servant” comesto Lenfest

  

" comedic improvisation and engaging _

By Kris Pollina

STA FF WRITER

This weekend, the Washington and
Lee Theatre Department will be per-
forming “”The Servant of Two Mas-
ters,” an adaptation of an Italian play.
Written by Carlo Goldoni, the play has
been adapted by Broadway playwright 
Tom Ziegler, with the assistance of di- §_  
rector Tom Evans.

The perfonnance relies heavily on '

the audience. Goldoni’s characters have 
been moved to a more familiar location '

ing ring.

Spring Fling was a day of fun and relaxation, a perfect
event for Spring Term.

PLAYING WITH
OVERSIZED
TOYS. Senior
Brannon
Cook ﬁghts
for a first
down on the
inﬂatable
football field
(above right).
Two students
take jabs and
punches at
one another
in the boxing
ring (right).

Wanna write for the Phi?

 

Today

4:30 PM - Visiting Poet. Piotr Sommer, poet and translator,
Warsaw. Northen Auditorium. (sponsored by the
University Lecture Series, in conjunction with the
departments of Sociology and English)

7:30 PM - Abortion Debate. David Nova, president and
CEO of Plarmed Parenthood of the Blue Ridge vs.
F ionna Gibbons, spokeswoman for the Virginia
Society of Human Life. Lee Chapel.

Tuesday

8:00 PM - Senior Composition Recital. Joshua Harvey ’00.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

8:00 PM - Lecture “Japanese Memories of War, Defeat and
Occupation,” Japan historian John Dower, M.I.T.
Northen Auditorium. Book signing to follow.

Wednesday

6:00 PM - Senior Night. Remarks by Lamar J .R. Cecil Jr.,
retiring professor of history. Lee Chapel.

7:00 PM - Spring 2000 Politics Filmfest. “King of Hearts”
(1966), directed by Philippe de Broca. In French
with English subtitles. Room 221, Williams School.

Thursday

5:30 PM - Gallery Reception. Senior Art Thesis presenta
tion by Caroline Cobb ’00. duPont Gallery.

7:00 PM - Spring 2000 Politics Fihnfest. “Fail-Safe” (1964),
directed by Sidney Lumet. In English. Room 221,
Williams School.

Friday

4:30 PM - Medical Ethics Institute Lecture. “Moral and
Social Consequences of the Genetic Revolution,”
David Magnus, Ph.D., Center for Bioethics, Uni

Call us x4060

U‘?

Educational Centers

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

currently opcrar
across the coun ,
education tcchn

sessions to build,
enviromcnt that

SCORE.’ Dire
SCORE.’ Cent: '

0 Receive trai “i

www.score]obs.com

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
    

. nc OI’ !!’l0l‘¢

photos by Tiffany Fn'edel/ Photo Editor

in this particular adaptation: Buena
Vista. The characters include Pantalone,
the uptight merchant; Smeraldina, the
boisterous maid; Dr. Lombardi, the hu-
morous scholar; and the “servant of two
masters”- Truffaldino.

Truffaldino arrives in Venice one
day, servant of the first master, Signor
Rasponi, who is actually his own sis-
ter Beatrice in disguise.

For ambiguous, yet irrelevant rea-
sons, Beatrice comes from Milan to
ﬁnd her lover Florindo. Her disguise
interrupts the previously planned wed-
ding of Clarice and Silvio because
Clarice had been promised to
Beatrice’s brother—— who they all think
she is. They all had assumed he had
died in a duel. F lorindo arrives in Venice
soon after in search of his Beatrice.

Confusing, yes. It gets worse:
Truffaldino becomes the servant of
Master #2: Florindo. But for the entire
play Truffaldino somehow manages to
keep Beatrice and Florindo from en-

   

countering each other. To further en-
rich the play, the delightful servant
confuses their mail, mixes up their be-
longings, and convinces both of his
masters that the other is dead. By the
end of the play, he employs both of
his masters to help him win the heart
of Clarice’s maid Smeraldina.

Ziegler and Evans plan to follow
the tradition of commedia, depending
greatly on the enthusiasm of the ac-
tors and actresses. Anne Hazlett, a
junior at W&L, plays Beatrice, and
feels the play will be huge success, by
virtue of it’s comedic value and the
cast’s long hours of rehearsal. “We
practiced every weekday since the be-
ginning of the term for three hours a

IT’s ALL AN ACT. Beatrice (Anne Hazlett) and Florindo (Francis U
McWilliams) read Epistles of Love.

night. I think that it’s a really funny
play that incorporates a lot of W&L
and Lexington life. I think the audience
will ﬁnd a lot of humor in it.” The play
also stars Brian Prisco as Truffaldino
and Francis McWilliams as the other
servant.

This directing team will be joined by
Vanessa Chen (’0l) as assistant direc-
tor, William “Skip” Epperson (’ 83) as set
director, Pete Duvall (00) as lighting
designer, Brooke deRosa (’0 l ) as musi-
cal advisor, and Tom Anderson as tech-
nical director. The perfonnances will be
May 19, May 20, and May 22 at 8pm.
and a 2pm performance on May 2 I .

—Additional information courtesv
of Lenfest Press Release

rr-5 rum: wmrm. ear-Lane ff.

versity of Pennsylvania. Room A114, Science
Center.

6:00 PM — Talk by Artist. John C. Winfrey. Room 221, Will
iams School. (Ills exhibit, “Interpretations of
Nature: Landscapes from the Mountains to the
Low Country,” opens in the Williams School on
May 12.)

8:00 PM - Theatre Series. “The Servant of Two Masters”
by Carlo Goldoni. Adapted by Tom Zeigler and
guest directed by Tom Evans. Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center. For reservations call 463-8000.

8:00 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival Kickoff. Baaba
Seth. Zollman’s. ’

10:00 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival. The Disco Bis
cuits. Zollman’s.

Saturday

1:00 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival. Boogie Solution.
Zollman’s.

3:15 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival. Virginia Coalition.
Zollman’s.

5:30 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival. Smokin’ Grass.
Zollman’s.

8:00 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival.Hipbone. Zollman’s.

8:00 PM - Theatre Series “The Servant of Two Masters” by
Carlo Goldoni. Adapted by Tom Zeigler and guest
directed by Tom Evans. Keller Theatre, Lenfest
Center. For reservations call 463-8000.

10:30 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival Finale. Lake Trout.
Zollman’s. 7

Sunday

2:00 PM - Theatre Series. “The Servant of Two Masters”
by Carlo Goldoni. Adapted by Tom Zeigler and
guest directed by Tom Evans. Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center. For reservations call 463-8000.

‘3

WiWl.5Tllé9lTll.llllVBf89.BOlTl

ano-are-are

Students create “Catastrophe!”

If you are in the mood for wild
comedy, dances and music all in
one — look out for “Catastrophe!”
— a series of one act French plays
coming to the Lenfest Center. “Ca-
tastrophe!” captures the energy,

curiousity and passion of the

French Avant—garde theater.

Several Washington and Lee
students, directed by Professor
Domnica Radulescu, have devoted
their spring term to mastering eight
fast-paced one-act plays from the
Theater of the Absurd, a high point
in the history of French theater.
Scenes range from lovers quarrels
to a picnic in the middle of a battle-
ﬁeld.

“I think that there is something
in Catastrophe for everyone to
laugh about,” says senior Cavelle
Johnston.

Presented in French with En-
glish Translations, the series will
features playwritghts Arrabal,
Beckett, Ionesco, and Tardieu. The
three day series begins on May
24th thru May 26th in the Johnson
Theater at the Lenfest Center. Ad-

' mission is free to all.

— Courtesy Cavelle Johnston

photo courtesy of Cavelle Johnston
“PIQUE NIQUE EN CAMPAGNE.” Students from
Professor Radulescu’s class rehearse one
of the eight one-acts in “Catastrophe!”

s PBY ‘ ‘J’
CARLO GIOLDONI
DIRECTED BY
"TONI EVANS
A NE\V
ADAPTATION BY
T054 ZIEGILER

 

PAGE 4

E1112 iliing-tum iﬂlii

 

MAY 15, 2000

Men’s lacrosse wins
12-10 to advance

GETTYSBURG, Pa. —- Senior
attackman Colin Dougherty
(I imonium, Md./Loyola) netted two
goals and dished out four assists as
fourth-ranked Washington and Lee
used a 4-0 burst in the fourth period to
break an 8-all tie and defeat Gettysburg
12-10 in the NCAA Division III
Quarterfinals at Musselman Stadium in
Gettysburg, Pa.

With the win, the Generals advance
to face top-ranked Salisbury State in
the national semiﬁnals next weekend.
The Sea Gulls avenged their only loss of
the 2000 regular—season with a 21-9 romp
over Washington (Md.) on Sunday.

In a game that was tied at the end of
each of the first three periods, the Gen-
erals advanced to the semis with a 4-0
run over a span of seven minutes and 42
seconds in the fourth quarter. Dougherty
fed junior attackman Tom Burke
(Moorestown, NJ./Moorestown) with

12:28 left in the game to put the Generals
ahead to stay at 9-8. Junior attackman
Matt Dugan (Rockaway, NJ./Mtn.
Lakes) then scored twice in a span of
44 seconds to push the lead to 1 1-8
and help Washington and Lee (16-1) to
its school-record 16th victory while
avenging its only loss of the 2000 carn-
paign. Gettysburg downed W&L 6-4

on March 12th in Lexington. Follow-
ing Dugan’s pair of goals, freshman
attacker Will Sharp (Kensington, Md./
St. Albans) ﬁnalized the W&L scor-
ing with an EMO goal, increasing the
W&L advantage to 12-8 with 4:46 to
play. The Bullets (14,-2) responded
with an unassisted goal from Tommy
Pearce with 4: 10 to play, but the Gen-
erals clamped down on defense and
held Gettysburg off the scoreboard
until a goal by Ross Garretson with
only :10 seconds remaining.

W&L junior goalie Wes Hays
(Towson, Md./Loyola) made 12 saves
on the afternoon while Andrew Bar-
ter came up with eight stops for
Gettysburg. The Generals were led
in scoring by Dougherty with a
team-high six points. Both Dugan
and senior attackman Chris Brown
(Towsoii, Md./Towson) chipped in
with three goals and an assist. The
Bullets, who saw their season end
in the Quarterﬁnals for the third
consecutive season, were led by
Pete Milliman with two goals and
two assists, while Garretson tallied
three goals.

Both the date and time of W&L’s
contest against Salisbury State will
be announced later this week.

--Courtesy of Sports information

 

 

, position she played as a freshman to anchor this year’s

defensive unit, which allowed opponents an average of
only 7.69 goals per game. Her exploits this season helped
earn her ﬁrst-team All-ODAC honors.

Riddle makes North-South All-Star

Baltimore, Md. -- A ﬁrst-team All-ODAC selection,

SPOR

  

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Photo Editor
ON TO THE SEMIS. Sophomore midﬁelder John Moore defends the General’s lead against
Kenyon on Wednesday, which took W&L to the Gettysburg quarterﬁnals after a 22-4 win.

Antrim, Brown named to All-Star Game
Lexington, Va. -- Washington and Lee senior men’s
lacrosse players Charlie Antrim (Richmond, Va./St.
Christophers) and Chris Brown (Towson, Md./
Towsoii) have been selected to participate in the
North-South All-Star game held June 10 at the Uni-

   Women’s
 tennis

prevails

A   Team advances to

in Minnesota
By Neal Willetts

LA YOUT & DESIGN EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s
tennis team gets to take an all-expense
paid trip to Minnesota for the NCAA

College in St. Peter, Minnesota.

W&L increased its record to 18-3
in Sunday’s match against Rhodes.
This is the ﬁfth consecutive appear-
ance of the women’s team in the na-
tional quarterfinals.

In doubles, Rhodes was crushed
by the infallible pairs of Erin Eggers

Melissa Hatley, and Laura Bruno and
Sallie Gray Strang. In singles, the
strongest games were played by Laura
Bruno, Brandi Jane Wedgeworth, and
Melissa Hatley, each defeating theiri
opponent in two consecutive matches.

son in a General’s uniform amassing 44 goals and 20
assists for 64 points. He ranks fifth in W&L history,,
in career goals (1 13) and 14th in career scoring (145).
Like Antrim, Brown is a two time First-Team All-
ODAC slection who earned preseason Third Team
All-America honors from Faceoff ‘O0 Men’s College

‘i

F

quarterﬁnals at Gustavus Adolphus #

and Erika Proko, Brook Hartzell and 5‘,

NCAA quarterﬁnals _

    
   

      
 

 
 
   
    

     

 
 
 
 

   
  
  

  
 
   

     
  

_ ‘ . senior Katherine Riddle has been selected to partici- Versity of Delaware. Lacrosse Magazine. *
Charl,ottesville,’Va. -- 'lwo members of Washington pate inthe1wLCA Division [11North/south women’s Antrim, a defenseman, has helped spearhead a Washington and Lee (15-1) was ranked fourth in
and Lee s women s lacrosse team have been honored Lacrosse A11-star Game on June 10 in Baltimore, MD_ W&L defensive unit that has allowed an average of the final USILA Division III lacrosse poll and played at
by being llamed 10 the 3011111 Atlafltle l_{egl0Y}211 A1l- Riddle will take partin the Division III portion ofthe Just 5.25 goals per game, the second best GAA in Gettysburg Collegeinthe quarterﬁnals ofthe NCAA Divi-
American team. Sophomore defender Eloise Priest (Al- 2000 STX Lacrosse Festival, an a11-day event on June Division III. He is a two—time First Team All-ODAC sion III Tournament yesterday afternoon at3:00 pm. ‘
;>1<ar;“drita;Va./St.h_S1tepheri s-Stt. A(gneI:)t\}i1vas.na§e;idtlo 10 at Johns Hopkins University’s 1-{omewood Field_ The honoree and was named as Honorable mention to --Courtsey of Sports Information
e irs earn, w 1 e senior a ac er a erine 1 e ‘ ' ' - ' ; _ n - ' ' _ ' - .
(St. Clair Shores, Mich./Univ. Liggett) was tabbed as a Dn:AiSi::eI:;:iinS:‘::éﬁreilgfnjiiiii i§ird‘il1:0fBiii1ishegl the :?VaeS[2\1l}l)r[:SI::S:)CIi1§(::?):11(tl0'iE:2:vI’i1nﬁii{iI?1g?l:f1a:::i::Ci?:IirgI)i Spolfts Notes must be ln.t0 t.he Phl
5e°°“_d‘team 5e1eet10n- year with a team-high 29 goals and 13 assists for a total F8C60ff‘00 Men’s College Lacrosse Magazine. (ph'@wlu'edu) for Pubhcatlon by
Pr"-35‘: 3 5°Ph0m01‘e defender, m0Ved ff0m the attack of 42 points. Brown, an attackman, has produced his finest sea- 6pm on Sunday evening, g
-lost l-A/&L stucleis’ts Lave it
Got photos you » ~
in peop e 
  tn’ k I
$.10 7 *
U I d S 8 8 .
it
Bring photo submissions for the
Phi senior issue to the University **
Center by Friday, May 1 9 .
I I

 Low  WALK TALL! -
/ Z

Z Z Ifyou want the

Z Z pride that comes with )‘

Z . Z wearing a badge of spe- ’

Z Z cial achievement, the

Z   Z  Army offers you a

Z . , _ I ChOl(Iiif(::ii1‘t3ii§I.}.l.ti‘'\rmor... ’‘

Z E"'°l’°'M"°3°A5'a°s°"th Amen“ Z Artillery...Air Defense

Z lloreThan100 Deparlureciliesl Z ,~_ 11j:~rti!1ery.--C<X{1rl13)at , _

euraiipassesoausiasses-siudyiimai  nglneers--— °m.e---     -

Z Z   ,,‘3f,“;§§;jS---a“dSPe°‘a‘ Based on Walcllllisuriieii "
Z Z  -   I I These are the B     t|ala_ir0m1998,1999

Z ¢ student Z   Army’s Combat Arms— 0

Z ’ “"!X$r.s° Z _  i _and the soldiers who ‘ Funded In: a grant from   >-

Z ".5 YOUR WORLD_ EXPLORE ”_ Z wear their badges are the elite among all soldiers. B p . ' '1 ‘ ‘X

Z Z If you think you have what it takes to become ‘ ’

Z _ Z one of them, talk to your Army Recruiter. , V
Z iiww.StudentUniverse.com Z _ _ _   , ii
= , 800-272-9676 Z 540-886-2651 ""9"“3 nenmlmem “I . V e   1 . .»= ’ ‘ 31
Z Z . Alcoholic Beverage control. ~   , .    
 Z ARMY. BE ALL You CAN BE?    e 1

1:.

 

