I

-<

+ 2, I

l'\.' :33 IL

 IKSVZ,‘

Vi 1.. 2 1
Q ~ 2»-

 
 

 

., 
‘T
ex

3 4

\

~ gar/as

VoLuME 103, No. 23

Calendar issue
still contested

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

As the battle over the future of Washington and Lee’s
spring term continues to grow, the report from the stu-
dent-faculty committee in charge of the review has left
many questions unanswered.

The report, “Consequences of a Two-Semester Calen-
dar,” was published by the Calendar Committee, a joint
student-faculty committee chaired by University Librar-
ian Barbara Brown. Charged with analyzing the pros and
cons of moving to two 14-week semesters, the committee
interviewed faculty and students, as well as members of
the administration, on a number of issues they found im-
portant. The committee then compiled the results and is-
sued the report to faculty the first week of March.

The major portion of the report focuses on the results of
the faculty survey on the consequences of a two-semester
calendar. While there is no general conclusion for the report,
the report is slanted in favor of a two-semester system.

“The beneﬁts appear to outweigh the costs,” the report
said. “Positive aspects of such a reform would include a
slower pace to conduct courses, the greater opportunity
for deeper learning, and the beneﬁts of confonning to cal-
endars used by the vast majority of peer institutions.”

The report also looked at the effect of a two-semester sys-
tem vs. the current calendar in relation to a number of non-
faculty related areas, most signiﬁcantly the eﬁect on student
affairs. The report notes that there has been an observed in-
crease in the happiness and relaxed nature of students since
spring tenn was instituted and that there is a fear that a two-
semester schedule may cause retention rates to fall.

More interestingly is the claim of the report that spring
term needs to be eliminated in order to reduce excessive
drinking. According to the report, “students have much
free time” during spring term, “which is usually spent drink-
ing. . . we cannot alter patterns of alcohol abuse without
altering spring term. . . a change to two semesters would. . .
offer less opportunity for excessive drinking.”

While there are no statistics given, the committee re-
port also said that drinking and driving is a nightly prob-
lem during spring term, despite the fact that drunken driv-
ing arrests have declined in recent years.

While some of the report does focus on the effect on
students, must of focusesron the opinion of the faculty in

SEE ‘CALENDAR,’ PAGE 2

Ultra ﬂttng-tum

JAMES  l..E\."8lJ5'eh ?r.f>Fjﬁ-“1,.t:,;:p,I
wasnwaron a aw Ui1‘V!!'l!‘3iTV

5 "“‘v"t‘~’v:?'F“:"w, \/A 24450

?‘-iiiili 2 2 2001

WAsHrNcroN AND LEE UNrvERsrrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

LARGE ART. With Fancy Dress days away, FD Steering_ Committee members scramble to
ﬁnish the decorations in time for the big dance.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

Fitness center awaits approval

By Mike George
STAFF WRITER

The proposal to construct a new ﬁt-
ness center met with no deﬁnite an-
swers this past week.

The W&L Athletics Department met
with architects and designers Tuesday
to discuss a new 10,000 sq. ft. ﬁtness
center. However, the project has not
been approved by the W&L Board of
Trustees and is still in its initial phases.
The project, if approved, will greatly in-
crease the availability of ﬁtness equip-
ment to faculty and students.

Department officials are looking for-
ward to the project but warn that its
completion is a long way off.

“It will take a long, long time. We

are still at ground zero,” Assistant Di-
rector of Athletics Cinda Rankin said.

While Rankin hopes the project
starts soon, she said there could be
complications.

“There are all kinds of concerns in-
volved,” she said, going on to list such
factors as OSHA regulations and ac-
cessibility for the handicapped.

Physical Plant Director Scott
Bebee also attended the meeting.
Bebee will work with architects and
designers to remodel the current
building. Plans must take into con-
sideration existing electrical, water,
and heating systems. The renovation
will require extensive work.

Bebee sai_d he understands the
work involved, but thinks a new ﬁt-

ness center is needed.

“There is no doubt in my mind,”
Bebee said.

Bebee said W&L’s current
weight room is “cramped” and not
ventilated properly, and he believes
that the new fitness center will get
more students to come to the gym.

Sophomore Peter Moore said he likes
the ideaofanewfacilitybecause of prob-
lerns with the current weight room.

“It’s always crowded in there,”
Moore said “When teams practice they _
always take up all the machines.”

Moore added he would probably
visit the gym more if a new ﬁtness cen-
ter were built.

“I think the need for it is there,”
Moore said.

Core survey measures campus alcohol use

W&L students believe alcohol
central to campus party scene
By Michelle Lally

STAFF WRITER

The Student Health Center distributed the Core Alco-
hol and Drug Survey around campus on March 12. Wash-
ington and Lee is one of 64 universities to participate in
this survey, conducted and tallied by the Core Institute
based at Southern Illinois University.

The Core Institute gathers information on college stu-
- ent use and perceptions of drugs and alcohol. The Insti-
ute tallies this information for each university and col-

lege, and averages it to render the national results.

Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Health Service, said
that the results of past surveys reinforce the percep-
tion that there is a strong drinking culture at W&L,
and that students here consume more alcohol on a
regular basis than other students do nationally.

The results of the 2000 Core Alcohol and Drug
Survey, compiling responses from 178 W&L stu-
dents, showed that 99.4 percent of W&L students
think that alcohol is central to the social scene for
W&L men, 94.9 percent for women and 99.4 percent
believe that the W&L social atmosphere promotes
alcohol use.

The results of that same survey also show that W&L

which is higher than the national average of 5.2 alcoholic
beverages per week.

The results of the 2001 W&L Core Alcohol and Drug
Survey will be shared by the Student Health Center with
the administration, faculty, Board of Trustees, and other
student health organizations.

The results will also be used in the Student Health
Center’s educational initiatives, toward the “social
norms” campaign to raise awareness of alcohol use
misperceptions, and to track trends of alcohol consump-
tion at W&L.

Surveys are available at the circulation desk of
Leybum Library, in front of Carol Calkins’ ofﬁce in the
University Center, and in the Student Health Center

iﬁhi

MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2001

GHQ hosts
global culture

By Matthew McDerrnott

NEWS EDITOR

Evening Abroad, a student-run presentation of for-
eign culture, showcased song, dance, costume, and stand-
up last Wednesday in the GHQ

“In the beginning, there would be as many people in the
audience as on stage,” said Dean of the College Laurent
Boetsch. “This room is a great indicator of progress we
have made with international education on campus.”

Director of International Education William
Klingerhotfer agrees.

“There are several times as many people attending as
there were a couple of years ago,” Klingerhoffer said. “There
has been growth in the past two years especially. Now the
international students are more visible members of the com-
munity.”

Some participating students were American. Senior
Bryant Adams led a group playing Brazilian instruments.

“I got interested in Brazilian instruments because they
are related to Capoeira, the Brazilian martial art I was study-
ing over the summer,” Adams said.

The eighth annual Evening Abroad was sponsored by
the Student Association for International Learning. This
is the ﬁrst year that SAIL ran the event previously put on
by the International Club.

SAIL is comprised of the Model United Nations orga-
nization, thelntemational Student Alliance, Study Abroad,
the International Development and Relief Group, and the
Social Activities Committee.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
DANCING QUEEN. Shabboo Hosseim, dressed in

 

photo by Emily Be:/Executiv Editor
BANG ON THE DRUMS ALL DAY. Anthony Allen plies his art.

students consume l2.5 alcoholic beverages per week,

By Latrina Stokes
STAFF WRITER

Senior Anthony Allen will perform
Washington and Lee’s first percus-
sion recital March 25.

Showcasing his talent in several
genres, Allen will play a variety of per-
cussion instruments from the xylophone
to the steel dnrm. V

All music performance maj ors?4i
must arrange an hour-long senior re-
cital to complete the major. Allen’s per-
formance functions as an honors the-
sis for his B.A. in music. He will also
graduate with a B.S. in business.

“Basically, my recital is not going
to be like any other percussion recital
or any other recital that anyone’s seen
at this school,” Allen said.

Having no precedent gave Allen
the freedom to design a diverse pro-
gram reﬂective of his many interests.
Drawing from different musical inﬂu-
ences, he has designed an energetic

Q3‘.

through March 20.

program that includes classical and
non-standard instruments.

Allen did not want to conﬁne him-
self to the instruments most widely
used in classical music. He will play
the marimba, a large wooden xylo-
phone from Latin America. He will
also play jazz on the Vibraphone, a
smaller xylophone, with the jazz band.
In addition he and senior Gabby Best
will perform a duet on the steel drums.

“Flight of the Bumble Bee,” a fast
classical piece, is the third piece Allen
will play on the xylophone. He said
he chose it “to show off his chops,"
because the song requires so much
ability.

Breaking away from traditional per-
cussion recitals, Allen will not be play-
ing a multi-percussion solo. He is un-
sure on how the idea came to him, but
he will project a Bugs Bunny cartoon
and play the music to match the ani-
mation.

“I listened to the cartoon about

traditional garb, presents a Persian dance.

two thousand times and wrote out all
the music to the score,” Allen said.
“It’s going to be really cool and I’m
really excited about that.”

Allen will show off his 11 years of
experience on the drum set when he
plays with the jazz band.

Allen hopes to dazzle the audience
with the encore. He will play the drums
with his cover band Smokestack with
smoke machines and a light show as
background.

Seniors Sybil Prince and Brooke
deRosa choreographed a dance rou-
tine to accompany a 1970s rock song.

Because Allen has devoted so
much time and effort to this recital, he
wants it to be impressive.

“I want people to know that this is
such a big part of my life,” Allen said.
“I want them to walk away and say,
‘Damn, that was really cool.’ And I
want them to remember it for a while.”

However, his devotion tocreating
his craﬁ is much more than the per-

Percussion student performs senior recital

fonnance itself.

“What I hope to convey to people
in addition to what they hear at that
moment at my recital is the amount of
work I have put into it before,” Allen
said.

Allen spends about seven hours a
day preparing for a single hour of per-
formance. He practices four hours, re-
hearses for two hours and spends an-
other hour on coordination of the
show.

“It’s a huge time commitment, but
I love every single minute of it,” Allen
said.

“I’ve been living and breathing this
thing [since] the beginning of last
summer,” he said. “I believe my life
can start aﬁer March 25.”

Allen said that he owes a lot to
his supportive parents. He knows
that they will appreciate all the time
he has spent coordinating 10 musi-
cians, practicing his music, and leam-
ing technique.

@112 Tiling-tum iﬂlrt

March 19, 2001

 

Life t

 

 

 

PAGE 2

Tllihe 3Rt'rtg-tum iBI)t'

MARCH 19, 2001

THE WORLD

 

Cheaper AIDS drugs
sold

Two of the largest producers of anti-
AIDS drugs announced this week that
they plan to sell lifesaving drugs and medi-
cines to South Africa at low prices. This
decision follows years of campaigning
by health activists who demanded that
Western pharmaceutical companies sac-
riﬁce proﬁts to help save lives in Africa.

Bristol-Myers will permit local drug
companies to make generic versions of
their drugs, giving up patent rights to
their medicine. This step is limited only
to South Africa, where HIV infects close
to ﬁve million people. Other African
countries with even more limited re-
sources than South Aﬁica are still wait-
ing for their turn. I\

While this announcement goes a
long way in helping out AIDS victims
in developing countries, other drug
manufactures. must follow suit before
drug cocktails, of which Bristol-
Meyers’s anti—retroviral drugs are only
a small part) will become an affordable
option for victims in developing coun-
tries. The drugs from other companies
like GlaxoSrrrithKline cost close to

RETIREMENT INSURANCE

THIS

WEEK

By Mehul Srivastava

$15,000 a year, making it possible for only
25,000 of the 25 million AIDS victims in
Africa to afford treatment. Brazil halved
its AIDS related death rate in just two
years by violating patent rights and mak-

ing cheaper lifesaving drugs.

Youth receives 25 years

Antoine Jones, 17, who wounded

seven young people when he opened ﬁre
at the National Zoo last April, was sen-
tenced to 25 years in prison Friday. This
is the second case in two weeks in which
children under 18 were tried as adults and
have been handed harsh sentences. Last
week in Florida, 14-year-old Lionel Tate
was sentenced to life in prison for the
murder of a 6-year-old girl. Jones was
found guilty on seven charges of at-
tempted murder, down from the 24 counts
for which he was originally indicted.
Jones fired on a crowd at the en-
trance to the zoo on Easter Monday af-
ter the annual Black Family Celebration.
A witness said Jones acted after some-
one broke a bottle at his feet. He is not

eligible for parole and will be 42 when

he is released.

MUTUAL FUNDS

Russian hostages

released

The 22-hour hijack drama of a
Russian plane ended on Saturday
after a Saudi Arabian rescue team
stormed the plane. A stewardess,
a passenger and a terrorist were
killed in the rescue. The plane
was hijacked after it took off from
Istanbul for Moscow. The hijack-
ers demanded that Russia end its
military campaign in Chechnya.

The hijackers released 40 pas-
sengers in Medina, Saudi Arabia.
The rescue team stormed the
plane when they heard the pilot
screaming on the radio that the
hijackers were attacking the pas-
sengers.

The Russian government an-
nounced that the hijackers were
Chechen terrorists. They identiﬁed the
leader as 41-year-old Supian Arsayev
— the brother of a former Chechen min-
ister for state security. The Saudis have
taken the terrorists into custody, and
are negotiating handing them over to
Russia.

rnusrsrnvirts’ TUITION FINANEING

 

doesn't apply to taxes.

Social Security.

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
”never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"

,-:-,—., »

Let our consulta nts show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax—savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax—saving so|utions—along with TlAA—CREF’s
low expenses and solid history of performance—can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

‘Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% maybe
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

TaX- deferred solutions
from TIAA-CREF can
help you reach your
retirement goals faster.

$102,068

TAX DEFEHHAI. MAKES A DIFFERENCE

I _ Tax-deferred savings after taxes‘
That s because investments that aren't eroded by taxes

can add up to significantly more money foryou——
money you can use to s@ rpension and v

$67,514

After-tax savings

 $l00"per month for l ‘y

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart a
purposes only and does not reflect actual perfomumce, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reflect expenses.

  
 
   

ve is presented for illustrative

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa—cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. - TIAA-C REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products.
- Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (T IAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. 0 TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—Co|Iege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY OI/04

Amex

 

CALENDAR

regards to spring term. According to the report, 68 percent
of faculty surveyed indicated that they were concerned
with the amount of course content currently covered. Un-
der a two-semester calendar many professors feel they
could cover more infomration with greater depth. Accord-
ing to Politics Professor Mark Rush, students are losing
out in some classes under the current schedule.

“A lot of classes are just really squeezed,” Rush
said. “Compared to our peer institutions, Washington
and Lee is in an awkward position.”

The report also said that students would have more
time to digest material during a 14-week term, listing it as
the number one beneﬁt in the area of course content.
Students have expressed doubt as to whether or not this
beneﬁt would actually occur. One student made the point
that the “math doesn’t really add up: [the professors] are
going to fill those two weeks with new information, not
stretch the 12-week class into 14 weeks.”

The report goes on to say that the major beneﬁts of
moving to a semester schedule for the professors would
be a.n easier workload and more time to do research.

Under a two-semester schedule, professors would be
able to start summer research three weeks earlier than they
currently can. It would also be easier to coordinate research
with other institutions that work on the more traditional
two-semester schedule. While this would beneﬁt the fac-

- ulty ﬁrst, Rush said, it would also help the students.

“Research doesn’t come at the expense of teaching.
. .[and] it isn’t a four-letter word,” Rush said.

While research time would increase with a switch
to a two-semester calendar, the workload for each pro-
fessor would be reduced. Under the current calendar,
each professor must teach 13 courses over a two-year
period. Under a two-semester schedule, each profes-
sor would teach three classes a semester, totaling 12
every two years. According to the report, Washing-
ton and Lee’s teaching load is as much as 40 percent
higher than peer institutions, making it hard for the
University to attract professors away from peer insti-
tutions.

While the report lists reducing the professors’
workloads as a beneﬁt, it wouldn’t come without a price.
President Elrod has said that in no way will the size of the
faculty change if the University moves to a two-semes-
ter program. According to the report, “without signiﬁ-
cant additions to faculty, curriculum would be reduced
by roughly 12 percent.” The reduction in classes would

FROM PAGE 1

also reduce some faculty to teaching only survey courses,
while not allowing them to offer specialized seminars in
non-traditional topics.

While the reduction in courses would streamline most
departments and ensure a focus on one’s study, some op-
ponents of the two-semester system said that it would limit
the opportunity to take non-traditional classes and to do
short study abroad programs and internships. Many de-
parirnents, most promirriently politics and journalism, cur-
rently offer spring term internship and study abroad pro-
grams that would be lost in a two-semester program. While
proponents of the two-semester schedule say it is better for
students to take a full 14-week term if they are going abroad,
many students prefer to go abroad spring term because it
gives them ﬂexibility with their majors.

“The spring term I spent in Russia my junior year was
one of the best experiences I had as an undergrad,” said
Assistant Director of Admissions Kelly Kopcial, an
alumna. “I double majored in English and Russian Stud-
ies. Without the beneﬁt of spring term, I would have been
hard pressed to take a 12 week term in Russia while still
being able to complete the English major.”

Kopcial also said that spring term is a good selling
point to prospective students looking at W&L.

“In my time in Admissions, many students have ex-
pressed the opinion that spring term is a factor in their
decisions to consider and eventually attend W&L. The
Washington Term program in particular is a big draw,”
said Kopcial. “I think we would lose something if we do

away with the options spring term provides, i.e., ﬁeld -
classes in the sciences, internship possibilities, study I

abroa .”

This contradicts the Calendar Committee report,
which said that by eliminating spring term “W&L
might be able to attract to campus prospective stu-
dents who turn away from us due to its reputation
as a ‘party school,’ enhanced by the ‘Goshen term.”’

The report, available to students through their pro-
fessors, has sparked furor among those who fear that
the switch is another attempt by school administra-
tors to “turn the school into a Swarthmore or
Amherst,” as one student said. Student petitions to
retain have been circulated with the intention of pre-
senting them to the faculty at the April 2nd faculty
meeting. Faculty members will vote on the issue be-
tween April 2 and April 6, at which time the votes will
be calculated by the Registrar.

Study Outside
Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute aponeore
an voff~can1;pu$ study program that
combines coursework in reﬁgion,
philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbizrg, biking

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session:Aug. 27 —Dec. 10

Visit the CHI website to request: an application.

Castle Rock Institute

13.0.. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 828-862-3'?59
Wwwzcastle -- rock.org

 

and paddling.

The College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson Street

See Us for All Your Fancy Dress Needs!

Elegant Rentals

We have been serving Washington and Lee for 75 years with contemporary clothing—-see us for all your clothing needs!
Visa

Mastercard

‘Y

1 .,.

 

 

MARCH 19, 2001 .

Glhe iﬂtng-tum lﬂht

PINION

PAGE 3

V.

G’ ’ t rest
*1 I know Lexington isn’t typically identified as a
joumalist’s delight. Indeed, it’s not a booming metropolis.

But I think there are certain topics that might have over-
stayed their welcome in our school’s humble periodicals.

‘The following are items that I suggest we boycott, be- ‘

cause there’s only so many times I can read about them:
The notorious drinking issue. I don’t really think there
are that many people in the school who are left in question
as to the extent of the alcohol problems here. In addition,
I see one more article about abolishing drinking or the
steps being taken to curb the rampant debauchery here, I
am going to go on a binge.
The “Most W&L Students have 0-5 drinks when they
arty” advertisement. You can’t really juxtapose a picture

of kids sip-

Ping D"P°"' lxtlrera’

pers while S 
playing pin K'i:isldJ:ira’CB
ihetailon the

donkey with article upon article about DUIs, MIPs, and
other alcohol-related issues. It doesn’t make much sense,
and then everyone gets confused as to who is telling the
th. Our heads start to spin in puzzlement.

' Clinton. Roar. I hate politics. And I especially hate
reading about a man who doesn’t even hold ofﬁce any-
more. He’s not our president anymore, get over it. Find
someone else to state the obvious about.

V My personal favorite. . .Any article making some ref-
erence to how the girls/guys here suck. Oh, man. He didn’t
call you after you hooked up. She was a tease. It never
ceases to amaze me how we can somehow manage to uti-

ize journalism to veil thinly our frustrations.

Guest Speakers. I feel so bad for Contact. Someone is
always up in arms about whatever speaker we hire. Pretty
soon we’re going to have to resort to just getting Mickey
Mouse, or someone else of equal non-controversy. But

rthen someone who will complain that it was disrespectful
that he didn’t wear a shirt in Lee Chapel.

The Greek System/Pledgeship. Among things I am very
grateful for is that pledgeship is over and thus, I do not

have to read any more about the detriments of the Greek
system and how we are all damned to hell if we endorse it.

The J. Crew Complaint. People still seem to amuse them-
selves over bitterly and rhetorically remarking “Can-y’all-
wear-something-other—than-j.crew?” No matter what the ar-
ticle is about, the author has to make some reference to W&L’s
homogenous student body.

The meanest one. . . Alienating some poor idiot by
referencing an isolated incident of stupidity. It’s like when
Dan Quayle misspelled potato. This school is brutal. You

can’t do anything dumb without it being broadcasted and
publicized for years.

As a general rule, Ithink there is too much complaining.
I wish someone would write an article extolling the virtues
of Wafﬂe House, or congratulating the FD Steering Com-
mittee, or commending the brotherly ties fostered through
pledgeship. But what the hell do I know about journalism,
anyway. As another general rule, don’t listen to anything
the "I-have—little-to—write—about-so-I-will-compose-a—list—of—
overdone-topics- for—this-wee ” writer has to say.

:IFC addresses the student body

Dear Students,

The Interfraternity Council has always had rules, but
students’ actions, except on various occasions, failed to
prompt the IFC to assiduously enforce these rules. This

lfact may be because the fraternity environment appeared
less dangerous or student governance proved so strong
that enforcement of these rules seemed unnecessary. The
University’s implementation of some of the alcohol initia-
xtives shows that the times have changed. Various stu-
dents’ actions have given the University plenty of evi-
dence that either the fraternity enviromnent exists as more
dangerous or that student responsibility, from the fresh-
men all the way up to the respective IFC members, suffers.
‘These initiatives attempt to address the problems. Our job
on the IFC is to enforce these rules. Not to enforce them
weakens them and may result in the tragedies that the
administration designed them to prevent. We on the IFC
‘realize, however, that the new changes will fill our hands.
Because we expected student resistance, we discussed
the initiatives with various fraternities, as well as with
various students to gain their insight. Many students say
that the initiatives will not work; they superficially ad-
4dress the real problems. Students say that people want to
drink and they will find ways to do so to their hearts’
content and/or based on the depths of their pockets. Some
people, students argue, will drink large quantities of alco-
. ol regardless of what regulations are in place. But let’s
not let this letter get ahead of itself; we will address this

, are iﬂittg-tum tam

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
News Editors Matt McDermott
ﬂ Max Smith
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
Assistant Opinion Editor Brett Kirwan
W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
W Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Copy Editor Kris Pollina
Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden
Photo Editor Mary Guy
Staff Photographer Eric Wechtler

I’ Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
)4 University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
V Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reflect
the opinion of The Ring,—tum Phi Editorial Board.
it Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
gr E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/»-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

argument later. The two rules that met the most resistance
were the termination of the drinking games in the frater-
nity houses and the cessation of the distribution of beer
after one o’clock. Let’s first address the former. The Uni-
versity looks at drinking games as a means to consume
large amounts of alcohol in short periods of time. Such
action greatly impairs student responsibility and elevates
the danger of the fraternity environment. So, the University
prompted the IFC to eliminate drinking games from frater-
nity houses. Students say the rule pushes these games out
into the country and into individual people’s homes. People
always use this argument but it does hold validity. In off-
carnpus housing the danger factor elevates tremendously.
These games, which aim to inebiiate quickly and prove no
less dangerous, take place in various locations; the drink-
ing is more spread out and harder to control. Additionally,
the IFC holds no jurisdiction over off—carnpus housing. Stu-
dents say the problem of getting wasted and getting wasted
fast still exists, just not in the fraternity.

Let’s look at the one o’clock rule. One of the concerns
students expressed ‘was that people would pre—party ear-
lier and drink as much as possible at the party before one
o’clock. The danger in this situation exists in the fact that
people will drink more, earlier. This problem does have a
natural solution, however. With everyone at the party at-
tempting to drink as much as possible, the fraternity will
probably run out of alcohol before one o’clock anyway.
This unfortunately leads to the dreaded option, the coun-
try. Students say that at one o’clock the night is just half
over. People will continue the party out in the country.
Students say the number of DUIs and possible accidents
will increase. And, it again spreads out the drinking.

What one can gather from students’ views of these
two rules is that drinking moves from the fraternity and
out into the country were it will be much more dangerous.
Students argue that we should keep the drinking in the
fraternity houses and increase the safety precautions.
Many pushed for increasing live drive and increasing the
number of sober officers at the party. From this point of
view students believe that it is better that this grand con-
sumption of alcohol take place in the fraternity house,
rather than spread out in the country.

We can now consider the point we mentioned earlier;
some students will drink large quantities of alcohol re-
gardless of what regulations are in place. For what reason
do we as students want to consume alcohol and seems to
be at any cost. Students say so themselves: the number of
DUIs and other possible accidents will increase as a result
of these rules. Listen! We are saying to ourselves that we
will risk a DUI or a possible accident so that we can play

TALKback:

 

m 00’ ng all .
my hot girlfriend.”
-—— Casey Nixon ’01

  

 eh  sn g ut of the
dorms and it being quiet.”
— Suzarme Toussaint ’02

Beirut or continue a party after one o’clock. If this exists
as truly the case, then students prove correct; these rule
only superficially address the real problems.

The IFC strongly encourages that people comply with
the rules because we will enforce them. If these rules rob
you of your liberties, do not try to circumvent them; this
perpetuates the problem. Let us repeat! Circumvention

perpetuates the problem. As we close this letter, the IFC.

wants the student body to realize a couple of things. Be
aware that the University fails to be our arch nemesis. To
clarify some of the possible confusion this letter might
have caused; yes, the University put some of these rules
in place, but the IFC drew up most of them. On the ﬂip
side, realize that the IFC fails to exist simply as a tool of
the administration; it is a tool for the students as well. Use
us! We welcome students outside of the IFC; the meet-
ings are at 6:30 Monday nights in the University center.
We encourage you to come and express your views. Fi-
nally, the IFC encourages you to realize that if we want
changes to these rules, we as a student body must help
the University realize that we are truly capable of govem—
ing ourselves. The IFC believes we can do this in two
ways. First, adhere to the alcohol initiatives; there are
other initiatives that are much worse, and these people
posses the capability of going over our heads. Trust us!
Second, follow the lFC’s ﬁve—tier system of governance.

1. Self-discipline. Ifyou discipline yourself, others won’t
have to.

2. The Buddy System. When you go out, go with a
group that will look out for each of its members. It wouldn’t
hurt to ensure that one of those people were sober.

3. Your fraternity or organization. If an individual mem-
ber gets out of hand, it is up to the organization to take
care of the problem.

4. The IFC. If we want student governance to work,
this should ideally be the ﬁnal stop.

5. The Administration. It should only come in when all
else fails. We should not “inconvenience” them with our not
being able to control our own affairs. Well, we have “incon-
venienced” them and now we have something to prove.

The IFC welcomes student response to this letter.

The members of the IFC board,
Greg Michaels, Jr. Justice
Chris Pickens, Jr. Justice

Tarik Bateh, Secretary

Hal Shaw, Treasurer

Todd Gosselink, Sr. Justice
Brent Keene, Vice President
Quincy Springs, President

 

“Seing my date in her dress
— Seon Kum ’01

By Christine etzger

  What will be the best thing about FD? I

 

“Good food.”
— Allison Shank ’03

 

 

PAGE 4

O

@112 {Ring-tum lﬂlit

PINION

 

MARCH 19, 2001

 

Women’s Studies is mother of all evils

Washington and Lee is noted for
its uniqueness and ability to attractl
students without subscribing to edu-
cational trends or fads. As noted i
the Trident, W&L is a meat and po-
tatoes schoolthat puts faith in tradi
tion and believes that the best wayi
to educate students is to use the
methods employed here for hun--
dreds of years.

For this very reason, W&L was
noted in the Sept. 1999 issue of
Men ’s Health for being one of the 10
most male-friendly campuses in the

nation, specifically cited for not hav- '

ing created a vague and restrictive
sexual harassment policy. Unlike
other schools, W&L hasn’t com-
pletely fallen victim to political cor— '
rectness. In addition, the lack of a
Women’s Studies program puts
W&L on the list and attracted at least
one student, and probably many
more in our conservative student
body. So why has W&L added one?

Women’s Studies, by its very na-
ture, rejects conventional learning as
patriarchal and exclusionary. The
discipline was created because ev-
ery field of academics, from archae-
ology and political science to eco-
nomics and history, is a construct of
a male-dominated society and only
by creating a Women’s Studies pro-
gram through which all these issues
can be reexamined from a female per-
spective can women
students and scholars
escape this domina-
tion.

Not only is it abso-
lutely ludicrous to subscribe to some
post—modern feminist belief in male
conspiracy to oppress women, but
the idea that higher education is use-
less to one—half of the population un-
dermines society. This is not all that
surprising, however, because the En-
cyclopedia of Women’s Studies, a
conventional reference book written
from a “female perspective,” states
that some feminists think “that the

Rigtofdebjsle

B:ettKirvm '04

abolition of marriage and the family
is the only solution to women’s sub-
ordination.” It also notes that femi-
nists decry “compulsory heterosexu-
ality” and “the control of Women’s
productive and reproductive labor by
men.”

Do we reallygwant such a program
to become part of our fine institution?
Probably not.

In Who Stole
F e m i n i s m .7 ,
Christina Hoff
Sommers details
the damage that modern feminists
have done to the image of feminism
and how they use Women’s Studies
programs as poorly disguised fronts
for liberal political indoctrination.
She’s right. According to the Na-
tional Women’s Studies Association,
“Women’s Studies owes its existence
to the movement for the liberation of
women; the feminist movement exists
because women are oppressed.” In a

program created for this reason, can
one expect to receive balanced, rea-
sonable scholarship and instruction?
With such a goal in mind, the feminist
classroom will be training future femi-
nist activists at the exclusion of eq-
uity feminism, which only wants the
same rights for women that men en-
joy.

To even further discredit them-
selves, many feminist activists believe
they are at the forefront of an academic
revolution similar to Copernicus or
Darwin. As Sommers notes, feminist
scholars have compared w0men’s
scholarship to “the storming of the
Bastille” and the Renaissance. To
compare academia minus Women’s
Studies to the Dark Ages strikes me
as little bit extreme.

Sommers also describes the first
selection in Women: A Feminist Per-
spective, the best-selling Women’s
studies textbook, “Sexual Terrorism.”
The author, Carole Sheffield, recounts

a late-night incident at a Laundromat
in which she was, inexplicably, pos-
sessed by an incredible fear of being
assaulted and raped. She was victim-
ized by the patriarchal culture that
oppresses women and supposedly
condones rape. To give female stu-
dents at W&L such a perception is
not only academically dishonest but
destructive. One can only wonder
what feminist scholars think of the
two white male military generals for
whom our school is named.

Does W&L, as an institution noted
for its respect for tradition and refusal
to follow fads, want to invite this gar-
bage from the academic looney bin
into its midst? Does W&L want to
give radical feminists a place in the
school to indoctrinate young, impres-
sionable females? Does W&L want to
support such unscholarly, irrespon-
sible claptrap? The answer from stu-
dents, alumni, and faculty should be
a resounding no.

Quanta .. on em... unis: duignad to run.» 1... ruuuds Ind

,.
I will! P
”’ pi?’-4 mum
9:

154 An extensive ubolaviv collection on connmr 0-2
soar mdleuna mum. xywnnk-nu Mm mate

//,‘;7 to ..-..u. A use. 117190 of tools mchdifw A vow av’-4! tw-

nu;

-4 .

)I'R

nmhmg (nun. hiqhltqhtlt markup uad m-min M’

I . ; . ’
/%'

rkrecuun ’

r‘ Jvumllltleln
F Enevdoaeah

P’ Al

I" Mn»-low

r‘ Alndhlehluiun
r Eunalnh

|'' Imam

I" may

Mootuslruv-as Wwoaow

/ / 1Qw.
yptumnzuuqluwwunnm/caucus

.-swan

“In a duel, there is only
one instant winner,
at questiapromo.com
there are thousands?’



For a chance to instantly win a

De|l® Laptop, Handspring Visors?‘

messenger bags and more, go
to questiapromo.com!

if Questia“ is the new online
service designed to help
students write better papers,
faster and easier.

questﬂa

Better Papers. Faster.“

Y

 

 

 

YMARCH 19, 2001

W&Uii'%%

 

PAGE 5

Fancy Dress com

‘FD Ball has taken students from French
‘masque’ to New Orleans French Quarter

, By Amy Blevins and
~' Katie Howell

STAFF WRITERS

As the 94th annual Fancy Dress Ball
quickly approaches, the Warner Center and
Ii. Doremus gynmasium are being transformed
into New Orleans for “Laissez les Bons Temps
Roulez” just as the two gyms have trans-
formed in the past for such themes as “King
Y Arthur’s Round Table,” “Arabian Nights,”

' and “Land of Oz.”

History professor J. Holt Merchant (’61)
and politics professor Lewis John (’5 8) both

. , said that more recent Balls greatly differ from

‘those they attended as students.

“Our Balls were more colorful in terms of
costumes,” John said.

For the first six decades of the Ball’s exist-
ence, students, their dates, and faculty
dressed in rented costumes according to the
theme of the Ball. By 1977, however, the dress
had turned to its present form: tuxedos for
the men and ball gowns for the women.

Q The traditional date of the Ball also
changed with the addition of spring term.
While this year’s dance will be on March 23,
John said that past Balls usually took place
in January during the break between terms
when the school was on a semester system.

“As a student, Fancy Dress was a full
social weekend and a nice change from the
academic routine,” John said. “Now, it’s just

4‘ a big one-night occasion.”

In addition to holding the ball in January
and locating costumes, students also had to
locate dates — usually from home or neigh-
boring schools —— before the school became

V coeducational. In the past, the students had
classes on Saturdays as well as during the
week, which made finding dates for Satur-
day night functions and getting them to cam-

3 pus on time was much more difﬁcult than it is

i now.

“You had to ﬁnd a fraternity brother, who
had a car, going in the right direction to get
the dates back for the functions,” Merchant

’ said.

Though preparations for the dance have
always taken months, the selection of the
person in charge has changed throughout
the years. While the chair of the Fancy Dress
Steering Committee is now selected by the
Executive Committee, John remembered
electing presidents of each of the formal
events the school held each year, including
‘I Fancy Dress. The president and his ﬁve vice

presidents would then plan and organize the
event, including the selection of bands.

The bands have always been a focal point
of Fancy Dress and attendees have been
privleged to hear performances by Louis
Armstrong, Dizzie Gillespie, Duke Ellington
and Dave Matthews Band.

“I think we appreciated [the performers]
at the time and knew that we were seeing
heroes and innovators of American music,”
Merchant said.

Having such renowned bands and elabo-
rate festivities eamed Fancy Dress Ball the
title of “Social Event of the South” by The
New York Times in 1928. The school contin-
ued this tradition throughout the years, cre-
ating such a spectacle that networks such as
CBS and NBC chose to broadcast the event
live nationwide.

The level of excitement and suspense as-
sociated with Fancy Dress is somewhat sur-
prising, considering the first Ball —— “Le Bal
Masque” — was hosted by the school li-
brarian, Annie Jo White, with money left over
from a theater performance.

This year’s fancy dress, a product of al-
most 60 student committee members and
countless additional decorators, promises to
maintain the elegant tradition.

“I’m looking forward to Fancy Dress,”
freshman Kara Coen said. “It should be a
really great weekend.”

Like themes before, this year’s Fancy
Dress theme was decided by the Fancy Dress
Steering Committee, whose student members
vote on the theme after they contribute ideas.
Chairman Keenan Weston said that this
year’s theme was chosen because it is classy
and fun.

“Mardi Gras combined with classy his-
torical New Orleans is a great idea because it
has something that will hopefully appeal to
everyone,” said Weston.

Last year the committee began a new tra-
dition: a rafﬂe that offers students a chance
to win a trip to a destination connected with
the theme. Last year’s rafﬂe offered students
a chance to go to Las Vegas. This year stu-
dents have a chance to win a crawﬁsh boil or
go to New Orleans.

Despite the changing traditions, the
Fancy Dress balls of today still have the
charm and appeal of the balls of yesterday.

“I think students today really enjoy Fancy
Dress because it is a chance for the whole
school to have a social event together,” said
Weston. “And it gives us a chance to see
our professors and friends in [an] environ-
ment outside the classroom.”

- Additional information courtesy of Come
Cheer for Washington and Lee

bines traditions with today

upper right limo coL1rte.sy of Come ClweI'ﬁ)r l’V[I.S‘hlllgIOI1 and Lee, other photos courtesy of The (;1I)'x
LETTING THE GOOD TIMES ROLL. (Clockwise from upper left corner) Louis Armstrong charms the ’58 crowd;
Partygoers at the “Land of Oz” Fancy Dress in ’56; Three Washington and Lee students enjoy the company of
bellydancers hired to perform at the ’94 FD; The President of the ’57 Fancy Dress poses with his date.

yump on /£13‘, _y1'r/.s./

Qlhin -ZBenn1'§, Elm.

102 E ﬁaréhtngtun St.
463-5383
RENT OR BUY YOUR TUXEDO N OW FOR FANCY DRESS!

Jfaueyour mafe»-up, narfs, ant/[air Jone/or .7ancy 91°23: al

V e Cu//Izzy" 5Jye

117  9(e[son cs/.

     

‘7 463_,5“, . L wE ALSO SELL THE ACCESSORIES:
‘  ,/Q ts
***m.£e-.,, mar.-,. care 5, am.-../r,*** ,,m,,,e,t: Se
~ 0-!’ Gaff Teyy] or .7(aren /or an appoinlmen/. 1]\34§:TC13:fRA§Il:), 3 
Quys, ye/your [air cal earé/. AccEp1~ED Uxsfﬁrts
1 .
MAKE MARL ENE “'5 YOUR FASHION  _ Sm? ;~§§‘§f§§:“,3,,m
Celtic  ms 2»: E  
" HEADQUARTERS FOR FD \ 4*‘ / $0 igﬁﬂgtaﬂgvﬁgﬁgﬁ
C ' . {SSE}-s§3-$9-88
V OLQR Connection   M,_Mp,
GREAT EVENING STYLES ’ ‘ "

Wishes you a

‘(:3 A@ Happy St. Patrick’s Day!
.7,  W Looking fosrta ‘t’a:t_ef|t(:’l way to celebrate (3% 
 B I K I N I & L E G  N G  Check out our ladigsrjcewsefrtnaird selection of ..  ‘ .
® .9 men's Irish ties—or try our delicious Irish foods.
F O R S P Rl N G B R E A K Formal is quickly approaching!
5‘ If you want to wear something a bit more
distinctive this year, why not a tartan bow tie &
cummerbund, or a taran sash for ladies? 2

 

26.!‘ A game?

Order yours now! . ‘

/go  ‘$8/.4.4 %&'i-=5». . .

Just in! See our newline of elegant linen skirts & shawls
from Mary Flaherty Capes in Galway, Ireland.

Daily 10AM-5:30PM

CALL FOR APPOINTMENTS
G0 25 N4 6: - 6:103 st Q33 L°1*§":V2’§°i"7'5§“5‘t*’5°
YS OR H AIN T‘  "’ 1-817-CELTIC-2

50¢ %{&?/6

 aéaééede. .}%://06.)», f//?7«6/

www.ce|tIcconnex.com
www.irishmea|sbymall.com

GE T YOUR  aw/WK» /rz// m;wmz;r.,-.l./

 

 

PAGE 6

illibe Ring-tum 18131’

S PORTS

 

MARCH 19, 2001

Men’s lacrosse stoprankli (1 Marshall

Generals storm out in the
ﬁrst half, pull out a 15-4 rout
of the 15th-ranked Diplomats

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

“Score!” roared the crowd at Wilson Field on Sunday.

Washington and Lee fans weren’t yelling at any of
their attack players or midﬁelders. Instead, they were cheer-
ing on senior goaltender Wes Hays, who was carrying the
ball into the offensive zone midway through the third quar-
ter of the Generals’ 15-4 win over Franklin and Marshall.

Hays did not score like the crowd wanted, but the Gen-
erals were already up 11-3 by that time. It was just one
more thing that was going wrong for the Diplomats.

“I just wanted to draw a man and get the fastbreak,”
Hays said.

Franklin and Marshall started the scoring early in the
game, but the Generals answered back 44 seconds later
when senior Tom Burke scored off an assist from class-
mate Matt Dugan.

The Generals’ offense exploded with six minutes left in
the quarter, as senior Bernie Norton, Burke, junior An-
drew Barnett, and senior Pope Hackney all scored within
three minutes of each other.

The Diplomats called a timeout, trying to disrupt the
Generals’ momentum. After the timeout, sophomore Tom

    

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

ONE-ON-ONE. Freshman Mike McNamara maneuvers around Franklin and Marshall’s Bryan
Kobel. McNamara scored a goal in the Generals’ 15-4 drubbing of the Diplomats on Sunday.

Melanson won yet another faceoff, and Barnett scored
off an assist from Dugan. After the first quarter, the Gener-
als were up 6- 1.

The Generals began the second quarter with an extra-
man opportunity, and converted within 20 seconds. Once

W&L men fa to Washington

 

. photo by Mary Guy/Phto Editor
IN SERVICE. Freshman Austin Kim rears back
against Mary Washington at home on Thursday.

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

With a 7-2 record thus far, the Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team is having one of its best seasons in
recent history. Despite a weekend loss to Washington
College, the Generals captured two more victories last week
on their quest for the Division III crown.

The team began this week with a 5-2 victory over
Kenyon on Tuesday. During the matchup, junior two-seed
Andrew Roberts won a hard-fought battle against
Kenyon’s Keenan Hughes (6-1, 6-7, 7-6).

Two days later, the Generals defeated Mary Washington
5-2. In this match, freshmen Austin Kim and K.C. Schaeffer
garnered victories in both singles and doubles play.

According to head coach David Detwiler, “sophomore
Chase Bice and doubles specialist Zach Vuncannon” also
stood out as major contributors this week.

Although the week ended with a 5-2 loss to Washing-
ton College, the defeat held a lesson for the Generals.

“The team needs to keep up their conﬁdence,” Detwiler
said. “The team has a tough schedule.”

Ranked 25th in the country heading into the regular
season, W&L has already upset the 22nd and 15th-ranked
squads, Kenyon and Mary Washington, respectively.

By playing well against increasingly tough opponents,
as they have been, Detwiler believes that “the team has
been improving with every match.”

The Generals host Eastern Mennonite at 4:30 p.m. today.

Hayes, Ritter swim in national event

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

Senior Colin Hayes earned All-American Honorable Men-
tion with a 13th-place ﬁnish in the 200-yard butterﬂy, and
freshman Eric Ritter swam to a 17tl1-place finish in the 100-
yard backstroke over the weekend at the NCAA Division IH
Swimming and Diving Championships in Buffalo, N.Y.

“It was a little disappointing, because I didn’t get in
the top eight,” Hayes said of his performance at the event.
“I just wish I could have swum faster.”

In addition to his performance in the 100—yard butterﬂy,
Hayes earned 39th place in the 200-yard individual medley.

Hayes also swam a 1:53.90 in the 200-yard butterﬂy.

Ritter took his ﬁrst trip to the N CAAs, ﬁnishing 40th in
the 50-yard freestyle and 24th in the 200-yard backstroke,
in addition to his 17th place ﬁnish at 52.98 in the 100-yard
backstroke.

Ritter commented on the daunting task of representing
Washington and Lee as a freshman at a national tournament.

“It was a little intimidating this year,” Ritter said. “I’ll
be better prepared next year.”

The weekend ends the season for the men’s swimming
team, which ﬁnished second at the Grove City Invitational
recently. The W&L women’s team repeated as Old Domin-
ion Conference champions this year.

wA1'ERLoo HOUSES FOR RENT

10 student apartments
available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enjoy country living
at its finest.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm
at 540-463-6575,
or 540-463-2868.

again, with six minutes left in the quarter, the Generals
exploded on offense. Burke scored two goals and Barnett
scored another to put the Generals up 10-1 at the half.
Franklin and Marshall started the second half with two
goals by the ﬁve—rninute mark, but the Generals quickly

answered as Barnett scored off a high shot on the crease.
With less than a second left in the third quarter, Matt

Dugan ﬁred a low shot past the Diplomats’ goaltender, ‘

putting the score at 12-3.

Junior John Moore scored a goal ﬁve minutes into the
ﬁnal quarter. Three minutes later, the Diplomats scored
their fourth and ﬁnal goal, only to be answered right back
by freshman Mike McNamara.

The Generals weren’t done yet, as Burke rubbed the
Diplomats’ nose in the W&L lead when he fired a shot
into the net as he was being hit by a defender.

“It was pure luck,” Burke said of the late goal. “I knew
I was going to get hit, and I ﬁgured, ﬂing it at the goal,
who knows what will happen.”

W&L head coach Jim Stagnitta was pleased with the
way his team played against the 15th—ranked Diplomats.

“Things are starting to come together,” Stagnitta said.
“The biggest part was the balance between the offense
and defense.”

The Generals came into Sunday’s game after an over-
whelming victory at Dickinson. W&L rocketed to a 10-0
lead at the half, going on to win 14-3. Hackney and Burke
each had three goals and an assist.

The Generals outshot the Red Devils 59-11, and Wes
Hays was perfect, making four saves and allowing no
goals. He was relieved by two reserve goalies, freshman
Ansel Sanders and senior Bo Vaughan.

The Generals are now 5-0, and will travel to Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday for their ﬁrst Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference match of 2001.

AN RMY OF ONE”

 

IF YOU THINK A NIGHT
IN A FDXHDLE IS TOUGH,
TRY A LIFETIME IN A CUBICLE.

The U.S. Army offers 212 different career opportunities
in fields ranging from medicine, construction and law
enforcement to accounting, engineering and intelligence.

You’ll be trained. Then you’ll use those skills from the
‘first day on the job. It’s a great way to start moving in
the direction you want to go.

SM

Find One of 212 Ways to_ Be A Soldier

or call 1-800—USA—ARMY.

Contact your local recruiter.
And we’ll help you find what's best for you.

 
 
  
     
         
 

at GOARMYIIOM

 

.( .

1

 

05112 Ring-tum 3BI)t'

 SPORTS

«W&L Invitational successful for hosts

PAGE 7

Parrillo qualiﬁes for NCAA
1 competition in the Generals’

only home outdoor event
* By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

 

The Washington and Lee track teams participated in
their only home outdoor meet of 2001 on Saturday, the
annual W&L Invitational at Wilson
Field.

The women’s team turned in a
fourth place finish out of the 12
competing teams, and the men
placed eighth in a field of 13
schools. Allegheny won the
women’s event, while John
Carroll was victorious in the
men’s pool.

Senior Jessica Parrillo qualiﬁed for
NCAA competition with a time of
38:07.03 in the 10,000-meter run, which she won. Parrillo

 

)‘ Parrillo

 

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

HANDOFF. Seniors Amy Calce and Nicola Carpenter
exchange the baton in the 4x400 relay.

will travel to Decatur, Ill. for the national meet from May
24-26.

“I couldn’t be happier about the start of this out-
door season and qualifying for nationals in this event,
especially during our only outdoor home meet,”
Parrillo said. “It was definitely one of the strongest

feelings of accomplishment I’ll be able to take from
my career here at W&L.” .

Junior Sarah Schmidt also recorded a first-place
finish with a distance of 115’09.00” in the javelin
throw. Sophomore Burke Duncan contributed a
second-place showing in the 3,000-meter event,
senior Amy Calce finished second in the long
jump, and junior Megan Babst placed second in
the high jump.

“I think we opened our outdoor season on the
best possible note that we could have hoped for
with some quality performances across all the
events,” Parrillo said. “We’re coming off a rough
indoor season, and hopefully Saturday’s perfor-
mances are a clear indication of the positive direc-
tion in which we’re headed.”

Leading the way for the men’s team was senior Marc
Watson, who placed second in the 100-meter dash and
third in the 200-meter event. Sophomore Chris Sullivan
turned in third-place ﬁnishes in the 200 meters and the
longjump.

The Generals will compete in the Roanoke Invitational
on Saturday.

, ‘ 0 0
1 Women sweep away week’s competition

By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

After three matches last week, the
Washington and Lee women’s ten-
nis team remains unchallenged.

The Generals have maintained
their perfect record with undefeated
doubles play and only one loss in
singles competition.

On Tuesday, the team played
Kenyon College, ﬁnishing with an 8-
1 win. Five of the top six players won

their matches in the singles division:

junior Melissa Hatley, sophomore

Erika Proko, sophomore Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth, sophomore Alyson
Brice, and freshman Liz Law. Sopho-
more Laura Bruno lost to Kenyon’s
Laelly Sherman 6-2, 6-3 in singles,
W&L’s only loss of the three matches.

In the match against Bloomsburg
on Thursday, however, Bruno came
back to defeat Katie Kochera 6-0, 6-0,
achieving one of the team’s two
singles shutouts for the week. The
Generals won the match undefeated
in singles and doubles, 9-O.

On Saturday, a match against
Franklin and Marshall provided the

ﬁnal victory of the week for W&L,
which won 9-0 once again. Proko gar-
nered the team’s second singles shut-
out against Pam Hillock, winning 6-0,
6-0. The doubles team of Bruno and
junior Sallie Gray Strang achieved
another effortless win, defeating the
Diplomats’ Hillock and Morey 8-0.

Currently, the Generals stand 7-0
overall, 3-0 in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference. W&L next plays in
a pair of ODAC matches at 4:30 p.m.
today, at home against Eastern Men-
nonite and on the road against
Bridgewater.

Enjoy elegant dining in a restored
1820 Classical Revival townhouse
in historic downtown

Lexington

Dine on our Veranda
" 
., W’ILLSON-
WALKE

   
  

Restaurant

Creative American Cuisine
www.willsonwalker.com

Featured in Food Q Wine

”Best Restaurants in Virginia” and
_QQurmgt_”I-‘ine Dining in the Virginias”

1 Tuesday - Saturday
Lunch - 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner - 5:30 - 9:00

' Reservations Requested
to Casual Dress to

Catering On-Oﬁ‘ Premise

Y Banquet Rooms up to 200 people
&m'irmat6:(Dp.in. a'ii8:I)p.m.

ﬁrErq/11$
A, V 30 North Main Street

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
RING ’EM UP, SIT ’EM DOWN. Freshman Mike Wert hurls a pitch against Westminster in the
,1 Generals’ 7-2 win on Wednesday. Wert went on to shut out West Virginia Tech on Sunday.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee baseball team pushed its record
to 14-3 with ﬁve wins in six games last week, including three
wins in back-to-back doubleheaders over the weekend.

The Generals stepped out of Old Dominion Athletic
Conference play with a 7-4 road win over Mary Washing-
ton on Tuesday. Sophomore first baseman Brian Gladysz
and sophomore left ﬁelder Kyle Droppers smacked RBI

 

No CONTEST.
Junior Sallie
Gray Strang
serves
against
Bloomsburg
in the
Generals’ 9-0
non-
conference
home win on
Thursday.

photo by Mary Guyl
Photo Editor

singles in the first inning to give W&L an early lead.

After the Eagles took a 4-2 lead in the third inning, the
Generals manufactured ﬁve runs in the ﬁfth inning to se-
cure the victory. Freshman Peter Dean picked up the win
on the mound for W&L, while junior third baseman Matt
Kozora turned in a 3-for-5 performance at the plate.

Freshman right ﬁelder Bryan Mulhem’s three-run, fifth-
inning home run was the difference in W&L’s 7-2 win over
Westminster at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on Wednesday.
Sophomore second baseman Todd Johnson added a two-
run jack as freshman Mike Wert notched the victory.

The Generals returned to ODAC competition by splitting a
doubleheader with Harnpden-Sydney at home on Saturday. The
Tigers pulled out a 6-5 victory in 10 innings inthe ﬁrst game, but
W&L rebounded strongly with a 7-0 win in game two.

Hampden-Sydney’s Michael Duncan scored from ﬁrst
base in the 10th inning on an errant throw by senior pitcher
David Si gler. Sigler threw all 10 innings for the Generals,
and Kozora batted 2-for-4 with three batted in.

Freshman righthander Dan Kagey won his fourth game
of the season in the nightcap, hunting the Tigers to two
hits over seven innings of work. Droppers led the Gener-
als with a 3-for-4 performance, knocking in a pair of runs.

W&L had little trouble with non-conference opponent
West Virginia Tech on Sunday, pulling out 14-5 and 3-0
wins in the doubleheader.

The Generals scored 11 runs in the first three innings of
game one, cruising to the easy win. Sophomore shortstop
Michael Hanson went 4-for-5 with four runs and two RBI.

Wert took over in the second game, tossing a two-hit
shutout for the win. Johnson and freshman catcher An-
drew Riffee scored in the third inning to give Wert more
than enough offense.

W&L hosts ODAC foe Bridgewater at 3 pm. on Wednesday.

WWW. gettoyota. C0111

® TOYOTA
CALL IT START UP MONEY.

TOYOTA’S ACOLLEGE GRADUATE
FINANCE PLAN INCLUDES $500
TO GET YOU GOING!

Tl1crc‘s sure to be a Toyota that‘s just right for yoi1.....

And now there’s a Toyota College Graduate Finance Program
that’s just right, too. Here are some of the advantages:
0 No Down Payment

0 No Payment for 90 days

0 Finance up to 72 months
0 Get $500 Cash Back From Toyota...

in addition to any othergcurrent Toyota customer incentives!

So if you’re within 4 months of graduation —
or if you graduated within the past 2 years -
Ask your Toyota dealer for all the details.

Tacoma

Highlander

 
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
  

Toyota College Graduate Finance Program available to qualiﬁed appli-
cants thru Toyota Financial Services. Not all applicants will qualify. Some
restrictions and limitations apply. Cash back offer subject to geographic

_ 463-3020 

   

limitations and offer expires 6/30/01. See dealer for details.

 

 

 

Sometimes you
gotta go down
to get up

PAGE 8

LASTWORD

Qllbe ﬁtting-tum 1Bl)i

MARCH 19, 2001’

Countdown to Fancy Dress 2001

HIS

2 Weeks: Identify the best “investment.”

1 Week: Dial the ﬁnal choice to tell her who her
date’s gonna be.

40 Minutes: Shower.

20 Minutes: Put on tux. Fill up ﬂask with SoCo.
Grab sixer of jimmy-hats.

f/1g;o   hours Before ...

EUERS

12 Weeks: Start looking for dresses.
8 Weeks: Begin thinking about possible dates.
6 Weeks: Initiate insanely difﬁcult work-out regiment

to fit into that dress that was purchased a size too
small.

3 Weeks: Commence the ﬂirting and hint dropping
assault in full force.

2 Weeks: Preparations move into high gear with

,-~ dress—accessorizing such as earrings, necklace,

~  shoes, and hairstyles. The dateless: Move into “Do-
’ or-Die” mode, lowering all standards.

1 Week: The dateless: Declare total war on the male
gender, enlisting any and all resources available to
ensure any unattached young man will take them.

12 Hours: Shower, shave, wax, pluck, and engage
in the other painful processes.

9 Hours: Manicure, pedicure, and facial.
5 Hours: Hair appointment.

2 Hours: Begin beautiﬁcation/falsiﬁcation process

  
 
  
   
 
 
     
    
  
  

 
 
  
  
 

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

IT’S T“-HAT TIME or YEAR AGAIN!
IT’S MARCH MADNESS!
THE are DAA/Cf ./

AND You CAN SEE IT _A_L_L__ AT 13. J. ‘s

we WILL HAVE THE ENTIRE NCAA
TOURNAMENT oN ourz SCREENS!

  a  

with the application of no less than $100 worth of
make-up.

1 Hour: Put on dress. Call friends to make final
costume critiques and build up unrealistic expecta-
tions.

*** The rest of Fancy Dress preparation is spent
wor in , ssin , lamentin , Ian uishin , and

7)’ 8 8 8 8 8
whining.

CAMP COUNSELORS

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

   
  
 

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

 
  

S‘?
B
Archery, Baseball, Basketbal|;,C|imbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,

Hiking, lnline-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
.Vo||eyba|l, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

     
 
 

  
 
 
   
 

 
 
 

    
   
 

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

Camp Greylock
for Boys:

  

888-2-romaca

   

1-800-842-5214

  
 
 

      

www.campromaca.corn ‘’‘’‘”‘’‘’~°am '9 '°°k-Com

   
 

    

What are you doing this summer?

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

.(/l’lI(l.\'/l.I‘I(/ ()'unI/uII'I(/

ENJOY CHESS - CHECKERS ' BACKGAMMON 0 & MORE!
ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO ' FRESH ROASTED COFFES 0 FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

1

f

it

1-

l

 

