I
Yr“:
3 r

_
r

_r

\*1
l

«VOLUME 103, No. 20

U

V

By Michelle Lally

STA FF WRITER

The Board of Trustees met Thursday

evening with administrators and stu-
dents for a dinner reception, to kick off
the tri—annual Board meeting matters
pertaining to the management and de-
velopment of the University.
I During the reception the Board heard com-
ments from Rector J. Frank Surface, Univer-
sity President John Elrod, and guest speaker
Dean of Students David Howison. Executive
sq Committee President John Cornly and Stu-
dent Judicial Council President Jordan
Ginsberg presented student reports on the
status of their organizations. According to
University Secretary and Associate Director
of Development, James D. Farrar, the student
reports were candid and encouraging.

“The student speakers were honest in
their discussion of their committee’s op-
«,,~ eration, but both had a very positive and
 upbeat tone,” said Farrar.

Following the reception, the Board met
for a brief program before retiring for the
day. Friday’s Board activities began at 8:30
am, with the swearing—in of new Trustee,
Mr. H. Monier, from the Class of ’62, who
joined as the Board’s 30th member.

After Monier’s inauguration, the
, Board heard presentations from Elrod,
Annual Fund Chair Cal deColigny,
Alumni Board of Directors President J en-
nifer Stratton, and Law Alunmi Associ-
ate Dan Balfour before breaking down
‘' into groups to receive presentations from
various committees who reported on dif-
ferent aspects of the University.

The Student Life Committee presented

Alcohol Task Force, the same report the
University distributed to fraternity presi-
dents earlier this week. Before any of the
new rules are put into effect, they must ﬁrst

  
   

A

Trustees convene
to review reports

_ External Relations Committee, members of

the board with the ofﬁcial report from the _

NIGHT TO REMEMBER. University Chorus sings while Trustees dine at‘Evans.

be reviewed and approved by the Board.
Farrar said the Trustees are in favor of the
University’s proposed measures and back
the administration on these new initiatives.
“The Board of Trustees reaffirms its
ongoing commitment and support to the
Alcohol Task Force,” Farrar said.
During the meeting of the Capital
Projects Committee, the Board received
presentations from different architects
and specialists on the building of the Uni-
versity Commons, the renovation of Reid
Hall and the construction of a new ﬁt-
ness center to replace the current weight
room in the Doremus Gym.
In the meeting of the Development and

the Board approved the University’s Capi-
tal Campaign, a long—terrn process to raise
funds to help Washington and Lee realize
its goals and ambitions. The Campaign will
be armounced to the full Board during its
2001 October convention.

Funds raised through this campaign will
be allocated to building projects, and educa-
tional programs to ﬁnance ﬁnancial aid, fac-
ulty salaries, scholarships, and professorships.

Friday’s activities concluded with a re-
ception attended by the Board of Trust-
ees and 85 invited faculty and staff mem-
bers. Trustees, staff, and faculty met in
Evans Dining Hall for a buffet dinner and
entertainment provided by the University
Chorus. Mr. Farrar praised the dinner re-
ception as the highlight of the weekend.

The Board’s final meeting took place
in N orthen Auditorium Saturday.

Elrod and his wife, Mimi, were both in
attendance and expressed their conﬁdence
in the accomplishments of this weekend’s
meeting of the Board.

“It was a great weekend. We had great
attendance. We talked about substantive
issues, and I couldn’t be happier with the
outcome,” said Elrod.

A

‘ photo by Emily Bes xecutive Editor

 U112 ﬂing-tn  ”

 

_ . » ' .-Tm. 
 .  Lgvﬁb . ‘ :';"‘f
"«,‘\!‘/\:;i:=.*I\3:}§Tm-"at rt $-35. \aM‘¢‘t!.f&‘.s .-
" -;«--m_:_ vb. N590

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2001

   

I

photo b

STAND UP FOR YOUR RIGHTS. University Center plays host for a student-planned, student-run, student-only discussion.

Protesters hatch committee

Matthew McDermott

NEWS EDITOR

The new Committee for Student Rights
held its ﬁrst public meeting yesterday in Room
109 of the University Center. The committee
was founded by sophomore Chad Ellis, who
chaired the forum with sophomores Eppa
Hunton and Matt Coursen.

“We all came here because no one is really
happy with the direction that the administra-
tion is taking with the alcohol policy,” said
Ellis. “We think it touches on a greater issue,
and that is students’ rights.”

The proposed Interfraternity Council
regulations to limit alcohol distribution moti-
vated Ellis, Hunton, and Coursen to form the
committee.

“I haven‘t heard one positive thing about
these rules,” said freshman Parks Brown. “It’s
going to put [fraternity events] out in the
country.”

IFC President Andy Robinson disagrees,
however. At last week’s alcohol forum,
Robinson said he did not forsee a migration
to the country because of the policies.

The committee suggested that the adminis-
tration implement Live Drive on all weekends.
Its members plan on circulating petitions to pre-
serve “student responsibility, safety, and pres-
ervation of the Greek system,” Ellis said. Par-
ticipants were also concerned about the man-
ner in which these rules were introduced.
Hunton said he heard the administration bul-
lied the IFC into accepting its policies.

‘‘I talked to some members of the IFC, and they

told me Elrod came to them, handed them the alco-
hol policies and said ‘Either you pass this, or I’m
going to go over your heads,” he said.

The IFC itself was a source of disatisfaction
for many of those present.

“The IFC [has] become just a way for the
administration to get a rubber stamp of ap-
proval for their policies,” Ellis said. “Organi-
zations like IFC are not doing a good job of
representing the student members.”

Most criticism, however, was directed to-
wards the administration.

“The alcohol policy is invading students
rights, stepping on toes, going in the wrong
direction,” Hunton said. “President Elrod’s al-
cohol policy came as a result of the tragedy in
late October and his reactionary policies are
attacking [student autonomy].”

Alcohol task force evaluates ideas

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Alcohol Task Force debated several
possible new regulations during its third meet-

. ing Sunday.

The task force, chaired by Will Coffman
’O3, Physics Professor Tom Williams, and Di-
rector of Student Health Services Dr. Jane
Horton, met for six hours to discuss parental
notiﬁcation for alcohol—related arrests and a
single-sanction penalty of one year’s suspen-
sion for a DUI. The group also talked about
the role of hard liquor at Greek functions. Al-
though the task force cannot make policy, it
can make recommendations to the Student
Afﬁars Committee and University President
John Elrod. Dean of Students David Howison,
a member of the task force, said hard liquor
needs to become less of a presence at parties.

~Women’s studies program established

Proposal results
* in new concentration

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Five years of plarming came to fruition
after Washington and Lee faculty ap-
proved a new interdepartmental women’s
studies concentration Tuesday.

" Associate English Professor Lesley
Wheeler, Associate Professor of Psychol-
ogy Jeanine Stewart and Associate French
Professor Domnica Radulescu requested the

t addition of the women’s studies program.

Their proposal, which was approved
Tuesday, has received no opposition so
far, and the planners expect none.

The plan’s architects modeled the con-

~" centration after the University of
Richmond’s successful women’s studies
program.

“The University of Richmond has one of
the oldest programs of this type in the area,”
said Dr. Anne Schroer-Lamont, faculty leader
of the leadership area of the concentration.
“The University of Richmond’s research has
shown that self-esteem grows appreciably
among women who are involved in their
[won1en’s studies program.]”

Classes from the English, psychology, art,
and science deparments will supplement this
program.

Female faculty teaching these classes an-
ticipate assisting their students in more than
academic matters.

“Intellectual leadership can be carried on
as students continue through life,” Schroer-
Lamont said. “It gives them the conﬁdence to
feel comfortable discussing their ideas and
opinions among men and other women in ei-
ther a classroom or work setting.”

The new women’s studies program is sup-
ported by Knowledge Empowering Women
Leaders, a student organization that will bring in

speakers and organizes extra-curricular events.

KEWL co—founder Alison Trinidad, a jun-
ior, said the organization provides “a co-cur-
ricular way to get students involved and ac-
quainted with faculty and with one another.”

KEWL members will be required to com-
plete the concentration’s requirements.

The first women’s studies class should
appear Spring Term. Classes will be open to
all W&L students. The concentration, how-
ever, will be offered to only a few students
during the ﬁrst few years.

“We want to build the program up with
one small group at a time,” said Schroer-
Lamont. “It might take 5 years or longer, but
we hope to eventually have a program for stu-
dents interested in looking at issues involv-
ing women.”

“Students can take courses to blend tradi-
tional disciplines in new ways and will come
back to their traditional disciplines asking new
questions and getting a richer experience,”
said Stewart.

“Most serious problems related to alcohol
involve hard liquor,” Howison said.

The IFC proposed a 9:00 p.m. cutoff for
hard liquor at parties. They will vote on the
proposal at their meeting tonight.

The members discussed the role of tail-
gates as social functions and their relation-
ship to football games. Howison and IFC ad-
visor Burr Datz refused to comment in more
detail on the nature of the discussion.

The group also examined the role of the
Student Judicial Council and the Executive
Committee in punishing alcohol—related of-
fenses. Currently, the SJC has only indirect
authority over these incidents. If an intoxi-
cated student gets into a ﬁght, they can pun-
ish that student only for ﬁghting, said SJC
President Jordan Ginsberg. This year is the
first year the SJC can hear DUI cases.

The task force also evaluated the effec-

tiveness of new and old programs designed
to curb the harmful effects of alcohol. The
student—run Live Drive program and Univer-
sity-run Safe Ride program were judged
sucessful in reducing the risk of alcohol—re-
lated accidents. Coffman said these programs’
effectiveness was one of the few areas of
agreement.

“Everybody believed that these programs are
a step in the right direction,” Coffman said. “No-
body should have a problem ﬁnding a ride home.”

Howison said he was impressed with the
Task Force’s discussion.

“I feel energized [because] we’re making
progress,” Howison said.

The task force will sponsor a series of fo-
rums open to the university community be-
fore they meet again to discuss their ﬁnal rec-
ommendations to President Elrod. Their next
meeting is tentatively scheduled for March 3.

D

February 12, 2001

@112 ﬂing-tum [ﬂirt

 
    
 
 

1-?
ti:
5"
G

Don
Pollina” Isrts» "
discovers center of

ol and

the money:

universe

 
   

Bring h fava beans:
“Hanna 
Valentine’s Day

 

  

Cards fo and friends

 

ary uy/Photo Edito

 

 

PAGE 2

(J11: ﬁling-tum lﬁhi

NEWS  

TH-= womo

 

President Bush takes
part in Mid-East peace

process

After right-wing leader Ariel Sharon
defeated Ehud Barak by the largest mar-
gin ever in Israeli politics to take over as
Prime Minister, President George Bush
took the first steps towards getting in-
volved in the Mid-east peace process.
President Bush called Yasser Arafat on
Friday and spoke to Sharon on Tues-
day. They discussed the car bomb at-
tack for which a Palestinian group has
claimed responsibility.

Sharon, the leader of the Likud
had recently sparked a month of vio-
lence between Palestinians and Is-
raelis due to his controversial re-
marks about disputed religious sites

THIS WEEK

and his visit to the Temple Mount.
Arafat also holds him responsible for
civilian deaths during the 1982 war
with Syria, during which Sharon was
Defense Minister.

Valentine’s Day serves
up food for thought

The American Dietic Association
released a study that found that
Valentine’s Day meals are likely to be
hazardous if cooked by men. It said
that if the man cooks the romantic din-
ner for two, he is more likely than
women to use the same plate and uten-
sils, without cleaning them between
uses. The study, co-funded by
ConAgra, suggested that that “Val-
entine chefs” “sing the chorus of your

By Mehul Srivastava

favorite love song for 20 seconds
while you wash your hands.” It
also urged them to cook meat to
the suggested temperatures and
to keep raw and cooked meat sepa-
rate.

Not all tradition is lost. A study
in North Carolina gave the green
light to women suffering from mi-
graines to eat their holiday choco-
lates. The study has refuted ear-
lier beliefs that chocolate triggers
of migraines.

On a related note, a spacecraft
will land on the asteroid Eros,
named after the Greek god of love,
just two days before Valentine’s
Day. At 196 million miles, this is
the most distant object a landed
on by a spacecraft.

‘TRAILERS’

“We don’t think their impact
will be that signiﬁcant for the short
time they’re there,” Contos said.

The commission allowed citi-
zens to comment on the proposal.
Several said the trailers did not
need to be in such a visible loca-
tion. Dr. Thomas Harvey, Planning
Commission Chainnan, asked why
the university abandoned the origi-
nal location in front of Doremus
Gym. Contos admitted that he pre-
ferred that location, but said the
journalism department would be af-
fected by the contruction of the ﬁt-
ness center and university com-
mons.

“[They] would be very im-
pacted from the noise and traffic
would be cut off,” he said.

Contos added that Doremus
gym was never formally submit-

ted as the site for the temporary trail-
ers. The Corral was the next best
choice because it had a wall and room
to plant trees to screen the buildings
and easy access to utilities. Also, the
trailers would be closer to other class-
rooms.

Harvey said he did not understand
the need for such a close location when
the trailers contained no classrooms.

“If there were classrooms, that’d be
one thing, but they’re not,” Harvey said.

Contos said all of the other loca-
tions are inconvenient to students and
faculty because of distance. He also
said a walk from the main part of carn-
pus to the Corral takes only four and a
half minutes as opposed to 1 1 minutes
to the area around the athletic ﬁelds.

Several commission members did
not like the contrast of blue and white
trailers against the red brick wall.

FROM PAGE 1

Contos said the university can
paint the trailers tan or green so
they blend with their surround-
ings. Journalism Department
Head Hampden Smith said he
hopes promising to paint the trail-
ers will persuade the commission
to adopt the university’s plan.

“I’m glad we [can] do some-
thing that will permit the city to
be relatively happy with being in
the Corral for a year,” Smith said.

The Planning Commission
will vote on the proposed loca-
tion on Feb. 22. Commission
Member David Coffey said the
proposed location has little
chance of making it to a city
council vote.

“I don’t think [the commis-
sion] was terribly impressed,”
Coffey said.

tonight . . .

KARAOKE   nlelrri

Re-live Lip Synch while caffeinated!

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

J AVA AT

coFFEEpeopleMusIcmore

THE GHQ

February 26 BluesWorks
March 5 Jazz co-sponsored by SAB
March 12 Open Mike

 

Illusionist 
bends Spoons 
and minds

By Jonathan Wortham

STAFF WRITER

Illusionist Craig Karges dazzled the Lenfest
Center crowd Thursday with demonstrations of
the power of the unbridled mind.

“We only use 10-20 percent of our minds’
capabilities,”said Karges, “Just think about what
people could do if the other 80-90 percent were uti-

In his show, Karges uses the untapped re-
sources of his mind to perform such magical feats
as moving objects and reading others’ minds. For
example, Karges picked someone from the audi-
ence at large. This person wrote a word on a
board, and the blindfolded Karges guessed that
word from the person looking at the board.

Karges’ show differed from traditional magic
in that every trick involed toying with the minds
of those who were participating. Students were
astounded that this man could know their names
and what they were thinking just by them think-
ing about it. Freshman Khalid Hassan said he
enjoyed Karges’ mental antics.

“This guy is g°°d’” Hassan Said Now WATCH CAREFULLY. Craig Karges mystiﬁes.

The Ring-tum Phi congratulates new University Scholars

Emily Averitt Matthew McDermott
Kara Coen Colin Mitchell
Natalie Deibel Jaime Muscar
Rahmeen Farudi Karelle Samuda
Sarah Garrison Maria Syska
Kathleen Gibson Daniel Vos
Rory Gray Kenneth Walker
Kara Harbert Eric Wechtler
Corinne Mathieu Jonathan Wortham

Housing Applications are now available.

Students interested in living
in Gaines Hall or Woods Creek Apartments for the 2001-
2002 academic year must stop by the Housing Office
(Payne 4) and pick up a housing application.

(Only one application per Cluster or Group).
Anyone wishing to live in a fraternity or sorority must
also submit an individual application.

If you are interested in special housing such as one of the
Theme Houses, please contact the following for specific
information and sign-ups.

Peoplehood Suite, Chavis House, Delt House -
Dean Penn - Payne Hall 3
International House - Mr. Klingelhofer .- Tucker 316
Nabors Suites - Stacey McLoughlin - Graham Lees 355
Outing Club - Mr. Tatar - University Center

The deadline for all applications is February 26, 2001.

 

FEBRUARY 12, 2001 ,

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor .

 

 

FEBRUARY 12, 2001

OE‘il\”‘i1oN

PAGE 3

   A night in the life of a non-C-school major

My parents’ common lament resembles
something along the lines of “Well, if
you’re going to be an English major, you
need to marry well.” I often remind them

V that it was hard enough trying to ﬁnd some-
\- one to dress as Fred Durst for our Famous
liiaovers date function, let alone ﬁnd some-
one to marry. “Well, then why can’t you
i; just be an accounting major?” they re-
sound in exasperation.
_ Put bluntly, the C-school scares me. My
two expeditions into the C-school were
, solely to fulﬁll gen—eds, and they were not
enjoyable experiences. What I know about
politics and Bosnia and any other world
affairs, you can ﬁt in a thimble. . . and have
room left over for what I know about what
1; economics is. That’s another horribly con-
fusing facet of the C-school that makes
my head spin. Politics. Economics. Every-
thing is plural form. It’s intense.
~ Until this past summer —— and I’m not
I even kidding — I thought the Gulf War
was fought in the Gulf of Mexico. I con-
stantly mixed up Gore and Dole. (That
whole consonant—O-consonant-E thing.
1; Gole. Dore.) How exactly does 70 percent
of the school keep it straight? (Editorial
note: I pulled that number from outer space.
I don’t really know how many students
are C-school majors. I haven’t taken sta-
tistics — another damn plural.) Here is
' where I interject my article’s basis: I braved
the netherworlds of the C-school library
to experience a night in the life of a C-
; school major.

I borrowed my friend’s economics text-
book so no one would cast stones at me
whenl walked in. I actually typed this article
on a computer in the C-school. I tried writing

' it at a desk, but there were books Clinton (he
was the president) probably used when he
4. was ﬁve in lieu of telephone books when he
couldn’t reach his Chef Boyardee. I couldn’t
believe there was actually more than one
volume of the menacing blue texts called Mu-
nicipal and Government Manuals. It’s not
like I just read books with pictures or any-
thing, but who would even want to read
" one of those texts, let alone multiple?

/

HHI

A boy sat at the computer next to me
(Woo Hoo!). He was studying for a test
the next day.

“What’s it on?” (I have such good game.)

“Stake holders.”

Of course, the first thing that came to
my mind was some kind of tong device
used to hold red meat above the grill. I
didn’t even bother asking for clarification.

“The whole thing is on steak holders?”

“No. Just partially.”

I got out of him that the rest was on
information technology or something,
which sounded so wonderfully vague and
abstract that it amused the hell out of me.
Within the next few minutes, two people
came over to him and asked if he “found
anything.” Apparently, the entire steak
holder issue was of grave consequence.

55
no

They made a lot of noise looking for stuff
on the computer.

The last time I had an English exam
study group, we averaged about 2.84 ciga-
rette breaks for every early British story
we reviewed. Here,

lllll

“Woman in Canada May Have Ebola.”
That’s all it took. Suddenly, I didn’t
feel so out of the loop. If that’s what is
topping the political top 40 charts, I rea-
soned it didn’t really matter that my knowl-
edge is lirnited to who

everyone perched
at the edge of his or
her seat, and it

orthemei’s Brposure one
Kris Pollina ’05

wrote Little Dorrit.
woman in
Canada may have

made me worried
that they were cracking Pentagon codes . . . at
least that’s how they treated whatever
work they were doing.

It impressed me to no end. The previous
night, I went to the C-school (Twice in one
week. Money.) and I made the observation
that if they weren’t helping with the recount,
they were online reading about current events.
One headline I saw someone reading was,

Ebola. It’s not even
definite. I can totally still sleep at night.

I applaud the C-school majors in all sin-
cerity because you know what a “stake
holder” is, and you can administrate a busi-
ness, and you know who ran for President.
Plus, I need to stay on all of your good
sides because you’ll be handing out the sec-
retarial positions in your high power account-
ing ﬁrms to us English majors ir1 ﬁve years.

ote of the week:

'1. .2

C 6

I’m going to have to in-
‘ vent a boyfriend just so I
I don’t feel left out at lunch.

— Anonymous senior girl, lamenting
"‘ over lack of interesting conversation
tidbits leading up to the celebration (or
lack thereof) of St. Valentine’s Day

77

 

. Flip: Ring-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
News Editors Matt McDermott
1 Max Smith
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
W&Life Editor Alexis Yee—Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early

‘ Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden
Photo Editor Mary Guy
Staff Photographer Eric Wechtler
g Business Manager Paul Seifert

Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring’-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible
, submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
‘ Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
' tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
I 208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059

'‘ E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

LETTERS To THE En1ToR--—-—

Student urges need to experi-
ence Delt Center before judging

Dear Editor,

Diversity is essential to our daily lives. Every group of
individuals is diverse, no matter how small, because every
person is a minority of one. The interaction of diverse
perspectives aids learning by challenging ossiﬁed opin-
ions, especially when perspectives differ widely. Diver-
sity is thus important because it is unavoidable and it is
beneﬁcial. Since we all value learning on some level, we
should seek and respect perspectives different from ours.

Total inclusivity, however, is impossible to practice. In
a community like W&L, there naturally arise smaller orga-
nizations that allow for closer interaction between indi-
viduals. It is simply impossible for any such organization
to include every person because each organization must
deﬁne its values, and some people will differ with those
values. When these organizations bring people together,
they provide unity within diversity, but they threaten to
destroy the larger community when they become insular
and exclusive.

This is precisely the complaint brought against the
Delt Center, the Living-Learning Center Alexis Yee-
Garcia referred to in the last Ring- tum Phi (2/5/01). Ms.
Yee—Garcia criticizes the Delt Center on the grounds
that it isolates independents and minorities, thus de-
feating the purpose of diversity, but she mistakes the
nature of the center. As a member and resident of the
center, I can say without reservation that the Delt Cen-
ter models the theoretical ideal of diversity and it has
the potential to exemplify it in practice.

The Delt Center promotes learning, diversity, and ser-
vice through residence at the house and through activi-
ties open to all. The center believes that these three val-
ues are integrally connected, and it holds discussions,
parties, and service projects in order to promote them con-
sistently. In many ways, the Delt Center is the ideal way to
promote diversity since its residential element provides
daily interaction within a diverse group and its active ele-
ment includes the entire community.

 What’s the best Valentine’s Day present you’ve ever received?

 

“A dozen roses waiting for me when I came
back from Feb Break.” -Elizabeth Doerries ‘01

 

As Ms. Yee—Garcia rightly points out, the center does
not currently have the support of the entire community,
which impedes the realization of its goals. Sadly, some
mistake the center for a haven for those who have been
excluded from the Greek system, and others say that it
serves only independents and minorities. However, resi-
dence in the center is open to all males regardless of
Greek affiliation, and everyone is welcome at its activi-
ties regardless of gender. The values of the center are
valuable for everyone at W&L, and our activities have
been wel1—attended by students of all types. If isolation
exists, it is on the part of those who misjudge the Delt
Center without first learning about it.

The Delt Center has the potential to allow for the close
interaction of a diverse group in a variety of social con-
texts, and thus it deserves the support of the entire com-
munity. The Delt Center may become a powerful force for
learning, diversity, and service at W&L, but this will come
only through thoughtfulness and respect. All who care
about diversity — and we all should — should support
organizations such as the Delt Center that promote it. This
issue demands action —— there is no excuse for ignorance
and apathy.

Sincerely,
David Newheiser ’03

Student responds to last week’s
“Cat’s Comer”

Dear Editor,

I was disappointed to read a line in last week’s “Cat
Comer” making fun of W&L women who have eating dis-
orders and abusive boyfriends. I happen to know some of
these women, and I fear that they will be upset by that
colunm. Women who struggle with these issues deserve
our\community’s respect, support, and empathy. These
issues are serious problems that take much time and effort
to resolve. Let’s not make life more diﬂicult for these women
in our community by making fun of them in the Monday
Phi.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ’03

“I can’t answer that.”
—Dan Tortora ’03

“My boyfriend took me skydiving.”
—Nancy Rhinehart ‘03

By

Christine Metzger

   

“Vegernite, Beer Mat, Slab of Beer.”
—Andrew Gardiner (Australian exchange student)

 

 

PAGE 4

C)

(Ellie {Ring-tum lﬂhi

PIN ION

New regulations will do no

There has recently been much discussion on cam-
pus concerning alcohol. This debate seems to have
produced two prevailing opinions. The first is that, in
light of the recent tragedies and the general decay of
responsible drinking, the student body can no longer
be allowed to regulate its activities in this sphere of
university life. The counter opinion is that, although
the recent tragedies have been terrible, there has been
no marked increase in injuries from years past, and
Washington and Lee’s long tradition of student self-

governance, _ _ .

if left alone to Right sde of the aisle
f u n c t i o n , ,
properly, will Brat Klrwan 04
best solve the

problem of alcohol abuse. The conversation will con-
tinue until, most likely, the somewhat heavy—handed
regulations proposed by the IFC are implemented. In-
stead, we should listen more to what the second group
has to say.

Although it is, without question, absolutely neces-
sary to alter the drinking culture at W&L, the chosen
approach is doomed to failure. As President Elrod said in
an interview with the alumni magazine, “If student atti-
tudes and behaviors are to change, it can happen only as
a result of students making up their minds to properly use
alcohol.” The decision to drastically change the nature of
alcohol use at W&L, with little or no consultation of the
student body, is contrary to the notion expressed by Presi-
dent Elrod, and by his predecessor, Robert E. Lee. One
cannot change nearly 250 yearsof tradition overnight.
The students will not react well to the new regulations.

President Elrod also noted that, “We’ve got to rely on
strong student leadership.” Many would argue that every
regulation recently proposed has been student—generated.
However, it would be disingenuous to say that the student
leadership hasn’t been acting under heavy pressure from the
administration.

Another response would be that we students are free
to elect leaders of different opinions. However, does any-
one believe that a new group of IFC and EC members
would be free to roll back these regulations, once passed?

Regardless of the arguments against the regulations in
favor of traditional student leadership, the biggest problem
with the alcohol initiatives arises when one considers their
enforcement. First, if shots are barmed, how will this ban be
enforced? Willa security guard or IFC official be posted on
every ﬂoor of every fraternity house 24 hours a day?
Maybe cameras will be installed in every bedroom, in-
cluding every dorm room, on campus. Maybe the deci-
sion will simply be to fine every student or house that
owns a shot glass. Will the bookstore stop selling shot

18 E. NELS

good

  x

 

     
  

_  -‘ ,, ._ _ ._.
 \

 

glasses and will they no longer be commemoratives of
Fancy Dress? In all likelihood, this rule, so easily ig-
nored, will become little more than a farce and an affront
to students.

Although Beirut and other drinking games are a little
more difficult to conceal, there are dozens of “country”
houses in town where students will still be free to in-
dulge. Wasn’t one purpose of the Fraternity Renaissance
to ensure that parties and most drinking would take place
on university property, where some control can be en-
forced? This doesn’t even consider the possibility of
students driving into the country to play, or following
the proposed 1:00 a.m. end of alcohol distribution.

Enforcement is nearly impossible with every rule pro-

posed. On a grander scale, we have seen the failure of I

both Prohibition and the War on Drugs; why do leaders

2.‘ 7- '9: 52 2’;  1‘-2 §( 3‘.
 ya -2‘ 2-.‘ -;' _- ~ ,;

-my

ST. LEXINGTON 540 ) 464 - 4483

WIS WEEKS SPECIALS

MON ~ SALISBURY STEAK w/ MASHED POTATOES
AND GREEN PEAS

T‘uE- CHICKEN QUESADILLA w/ SPANISH RICE
‘ AND HOME MADE CHILI

WED ~ SPAGHETTI w/ MEAT SAUCE AND MIXED
GREEN SALAD i

new BBQ CHICKEN 51‘ RIBS w/HOME MADE
POTATO SALAD AND OUR OWN BAKED BEANS

FRI -- SHRIMP CREOLE SERVED ovER WHITE RICE

SAT~ CHICKEN CORDON BLEU SERVED ovER
RICE w/ FRESH BROCOLLI a

SUN ~MEATLOA1~' w/ MACARONI er CHEESE AND
E 

tr
1-
I»
4-»
4

.-
‘V
I1"


‘hr?-
45/
+5’

continue to believe that simple illegality will solve any-
thing? The only result will be a substance—less, cer-
tainly not substance—free, affront to student autonomy.

Some proposed rules, such as the automatic sus-
pension following a DUI conviction, are easily enforce-
able and send a clear message that grossly irrespon-
sible drinking, which puts oneself and others at risk,
will not be tolerated. This two—pronged standard should
be used to evaluate all proposed regulations.

Those with the authority to hand down restrictions on
alcohol need to take a step back and reconsider the antici-
pated effectiveness of the proposed regulations. Instead of
branding every W&L student as a drunk and issuing unen-
forceable and autocratic edicts, they should look to W&L’s
responsible drinkers, by far the majority, to set an example
and urge other students to follow.

 

FEBRUARY 12, 2001

  9-'o-h. I2:-_u.t .’ 

A very nice 2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment, one mile from
downtown Lexington. Central AC 8 Heat Pump.
Small deck, washer/dryer hookup. $550 a month.
Available immediately.

Please call 46l-3222.

LOVE, LOYALTY & FRIENDSHIP

    

What are you giving this year?
Why not the timeless beauty and symbolism of the Claddagh?

Available in rings, earrings, bracelets, & necklaces in gold and silver
See our knotwork jewelry, Scottish Luckenbooths, and Welsh Lovespoons tool

CELTIC CONNECTION
19 W. Nelson V 10AM-5:30PM M—SAT
464-6545 V_ www.ce|ticconnex.com

‘WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
V Annual Fund Staff Associate
The Office of University Development has an opening for an Annual
Fund Staff Associate. This position assists in the development and man-

Washington and Lee through the Annual Fund which provides direct sup-
port to the University's operating budget. The term of the position is one
year, renewable for a second year, with preference given to recent W&L
graduates.

As this entry-level position depends on creative communication to a
varied constituency, the successful candidate should possess excellent writ-
ing and verbal skills. Also necessary are demonstrated initiative, an abil-
ity to work within specific deadlines, ability to prioritize and juggle mul-
tiple tasks, an ability to supervise and manage student workers and alumni
volunteers, and a willingness to assist other staff members as needed.
Candidates should also be prepared for evening and weekend work and
some travel. Familiarity with computers and with public relations prin-
ciples is a plus. A Bachelor's degree is required.

Candidates should send a complete resume and letter of application to
Robert W. Fox, Director of Personnel Services, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, VA 24450.

Equal Opportunity Employer

 

agement of strategies to increase involvement in the ﬁnancial support of r

 

~ FEBRUARY 12, 2001

W&If

2 ﬁling-tum iﬂhi

IFE

PAGE 5

I-“Silence” a tough act to follow

‘.

\

By Mike George

STAFF WRITER

 “Hannib ”

ices: :1:

What is the most terrifying is of—.
ten that which is the most unpredict-
able. “Hannibal,” the sequel to the
1991 thriller “The Silence of the
Lambs,” conveys this idea with chill-
ing accuracy.

Ten years after his violent escape
from authorities in Tennessee,
Hannibal Lecter has found relative
obscurity in the streets of Florence,
Italy.

In America, the agent that most un-
derstood him, Clarice Starling, has
come under ﬁre for a botched drug
bust that took the life of a fellow FBI
agent and friend. With pressure
mounting for her resignation, Starling
is reassigned to the Lecter case, and
forced once again to enter the mind
of a deranged madman.

“Hannibal” is directed by Ridley
Scott, who in 1979 terriﬁed audiences
with the horror classic “Alien.” Scott,
a perfect choice for the third install-
ment in a series that includes the cult
classic “Manhunter” and the Oscar
winning “The Silence of the Lambs,”
proves that he is a master of suspense.
Scott uses anticipation and paranoia
to bring the audience to a new level of
terror. It is impossible to tell what Lecter
is going to do next, and that is what is
truly terrifying.

“Hannibal” rests largely on the
strength of its actors. Julianne Moore
is a worthy replacement for Jodie F os-
ter, but her performance seems to be
missing something. Where Jodie Fos-
ter was convincing as a West Virginian
trying to make it in the FBI, Moore
seems out of place.

As disappointing as Moore is in

her role, Anthony Hopkins’ return to
the role of Hannibal Lecter is amaz-
ing. He literally chews up the scen-
ery. Hopkins knows at every moment
exactly what to do to completely ter-
rify the audience. The subtleties of
his interactions with Moore are as re-

markable as the mood he sets when,

lurking in the shadows.

The rest of the supporting cast is
also lackluster in comparison to
Hopkins. Gary Oldman puts in a some-
what odd Dr. Evil-like performance as
Mason Verger, a disfigured victim of

Dr. Lecter who is bent on revenge.

For all of its superior direction,
“Hannibal” does have some problems,
particularly in the direction. Scott shifts
the tone of his ﬁlm and even the style
of direction as the setting changes
from Washington to Italy and back to
Washington again. In doing this, Scott
fails to present a ﬁlm that builds on its
suspense as it progresses.

This film is also very graphic, at
times to an excess. Playing on a shock
factor, “Hannibal” shows when it
could describe. Also, by bringing

 
 

  Students
US‘! A colsol

 
 
 
    

  
 
 
 
 
 

Office of Health Promotion and Substance Abuse Prevention
Based on W&L CORE Survey data from , 1999, 2000

photo counesy of ht //us.imdb.com
HELL0, CLARICE. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) carries an unconscious Clarice Starling
(Julianne Moore) as they escape from Mason Verger’s farm at the end of the film.

Lecter into the real world, it somewhat
reduces his unpredictability and
makes him appear more human. For this
reason, “Hannibal” is less terrifying in
some regards than its predecessor.

Despite these shortcomings,
“Hannibal” has many merits. Its ending
is both shocking and disturbing, but
comes to some sense of understanding.
“Hannibal” shows us what motivates
Lecter and how, in a larger part, what
he does is motivated by his own sense
of morality. This is a great ﬁlm, go see it
at least once.

Anyone interested in an
ad in the 2001 Calyx
should contact editor

Neal Willets at
Willettsr@Wlu.edu
orx4046 I

  

Pub is for lovers, friends too

By Alexis Yee—Garcia

FEATURES EDITOR

Though Michael’s Pub suggests
beer as a gift for a lover, all of the quality
brews suggested would be just as en-
joyable at a friendly dinner party. This
Thai inﬂuenced dish would pair well
with the Katahdin Red Ale (or a crisp
Riesling). So, gather a few single friends
and enjoy V—Day with this pungent en-
tree from Bon Appetit Cook’s Exchange.

(Try not to be intimidated by the
exotic ingredients. Anything not avail-
able in the local supermarket can be
found at the Healthy Foods Store or
one of the other gourmet food sources.)

14 oz. canned unsweetened coconut
milk

2 tbsp. Thai red curry paste

1 tbsp. minced peeled ginger

1 C canned low-salt chicken broth

1 tbsp. cornstarch

1 1/2 lb. skinless boneless chicken
breast halves, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 tbsp. ﬁsh sauce (nam pla)

2 tbsp. fresh lime juice

1 small red bell pepper, chopped

1 C sliced green onions

1 1/4 C chopped fresh basil

1 lb. dried pasta

2 C broccoli ﬂorets

Serves 4 to 6

Stir coconut milk, curry paste and
ginger in heavy large skillet over me-
dium-high heat until paste dissolves,
about 1 minute. Mix broth and corn-
starch in small bowl, add to skillet,
cook an additional 2 minutes. Reduce
heat to medium and add chicken, ﬁsh
sauce and lime juice. Simmer until
chicken is cooked through, about 2
minutes. Add bell pepper, green on-
ions and basil and cook 2 minutes.

Meanwhile, cook pasta in a large
pot of boiling salted water according
to package directions. Add broccoli
for the final minute of cooking. Drain
pasta and broccoli. Pour sauce over
pasta and broccoli to serve.

  

 

Q SM go»: 7/azmzam mu, “Q
Pumpkinseecis

wée/Le goo/6! 
Wafewtééze émdc
Waéenténe Sacyé

.£’cwe .1052/‘wze/7c'céeZ¢

7&6 game of Zaae

aaa(macémaae./

  

 

 

 

1 PAGE 6

FEBRUARY 12, 2001

Men’s lacrosse team prepar

Generals enter
season ranked
third in the nation

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team faces an awesome pros-
pect this season, looking to improve
on last year’s outstanding success.

The Generals were 16-2, 6-0 in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.
Salisbury State narrowly defeated
the Generals in the NCAA Division
III semifinals, 10-9. W&L finished
the season with a fourth place na-
tional ranking.

The Generals have been rated
fourth in a pre—season STX/USILA
poll. Although they lost a postseason
match to the Generals, Gettysburg is

' ranked third.‘

The Generals are returning three
of last season’s five best scorers, al-
though this year the team must do
without All-Americans Chris Brown
and Colin Dougherty.

CHASING THE GENERALS. ODAC teams will attempt to compete with senior Pete Iwancio and the
men’s lacrosse team this year. W&L finished ,6-0 in the ODAC, 16-2 overall in 2000.

Senior Matt Dugan set a school
record of 87 points by scoring 55 goals
and 32 assists last season. He will look
to continue his domination this season.

S PESRTS

“We put a lot of pressure on Matt

to lead the attack,” head coach Jim
Stagnitta told the W&L Athletics
Homepage.

Golf team targets ODAC title

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee golf team
enters the spring season with its ob-
jectives in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference clearly established.

“(Guilford) won our conference
last year, and they’re the number-two
team in the country right now,” said
head coach Gavin Colliton, in his
second season as coach of the Gen-
erals. “We have one goal, and that’s
to win the conference championship.
That’s something we should do ev-
ery year here, even though Guilford
is red-hot.”

W&L should beneﬁt from a bal-
anced roster, which includes at least
two members of each class. Seniors
Ben Wilson and Clayton Chandler will
provide the team with necessary lead-
ership, according to Colliton.

Juniors Curtis Bethea, who is lead-
ing the team in scoring stroke aver-

age through the fall, and Kyle Ulep
also bring experience to the table.

While the Generals don’t have a
definitive star, they do possess
enough talent to compete in and out
of the ODAC. The three—man sopho-
more class of Chip Campbell, Chuck
Green, and David Haase —— a new-
comer to the team —— is, however, vi-
tal to the team’s success.

“We don’t have that go-to guy,”
Colliton said. “But I think our sopho-
more class, with David Haase and
Chip Campbell, has provided the
steadiest performances, and Chuck
Green always has the capability of a
low score.”

Colliton and the Generals also ben-
eﬁt from playing in three tournaments
in the fall.

“Fall invitationals just give us a
place of where we stand in the league,”
the coach said. “The fall competition
just tells us whatwe have to do to
prepare ourselves (for the spring).”

Fall competition could easily be a
double-edged sword, as W&L has a
hiatus from actual competition of
nearly four months. However,
Collition believes that his team has
stayed active enough as to where the
time off will not hurt the Generals’
chances.

“Officially, we’ve been off for four
months, but the guys basically go
out and play a couple of times a
week,” Colliton said. “We just com-
pleted a five-week mandatory lifting
program, and the guys are in pretty
good shape.

“Their game is close with a little
bit of layoff, but it hasn’t been four
months (since they’ve played), so
that’s not a big factor.”

W&L opens the spring season on
Feb. 23 with the Guilford ODAC Invi-
tational. The Generals host their own
ODAC invite on Mar. 21, and ODAC
Championships take place on Apr. 23
and 24.

Courtesy 0 ports n ormation

ing as a captain this year.

On Hackney’s ability, Stagnitta com-
mented, “Pope is one of the premiere
all-around players in the country.”

Stagnitta is also pleased with the
success of Norton, who was named a
preseason ﬁrst—team All-American.

“Bemie just keeps getting better
and better,” Stagnitta said. “I think
you will see that improvement again
this season.”

Senior goaltender Wes Hays also
returns to the team as a captain. Hays
became a solid player last season, and
had a brilliant performance in the semi-
ﬁnal match against Salisbury State.
He earned a respectable .607 save per-
centage, and his goa1s—against aver-
age was second in the nation at 5 .85.

“Wes has gotten better every year,
and played huge last year in the big
games,” Stagnitta said. “He is ready
to haveihis best year yet.”

  

es to take field

of a team is its midﬁeld, where the
players must be adept at both offen-
sive and defensive play. With that in
mind, W&L looks stronger and,‘
deeper in the midﬁeld than in yearg
past.

“We’re better in the midﬁeld this
year than we were last year because
of the depth,” Stagnitta said.

Facing off this year will be sopho-
more Tom Melanson, who won over
70 percent of the faceoffs he took last
season. Stagnitta describes
Melanson as “one of the premiere
faceoff men in the country.”

Stagnitta, entering his 12th season
as coach of the team, says he has
never seen a better group of seniors.

“I can’t say that, during my ca-
reer over a four—year period, there’s a
group that can match these seniors,”
he said.

If last year’s success and

Seniors Pope Hackney and Bernie
Norton each had more than 40 points
last season. Hackney, who was a first-
team All-American last year, is retum-

Senior Pete Iwancio will return to
help Hays lead the defense. The Gen-
erals were ranked second in the na-
tion for scoring defense at 5.78 goals
per game last year.

Some would argue that the true test

Stagnitta’s prognosis are any indi-
cation, the Generals should go far-
ther than they ever have before un-
der Stagnitta.

W&L opens the season on Feb.

Generals ready for spotlight

Women’s tennis team looks
to continue national success
By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

There is an auspicious outlook for the Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team this season.

With the return of six national competitors, two of whom
were named All-Americans, the team is sure to be a pow-
erful force in the NCAA Division III and the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. Cinda Rankin will return as head
coach to complete her 13th year with the team.

Last year, the Generals placed third in the Division III,
defeating Amherst 5-4 in the consolation match and ﬁn-
ishing with an overall record of 20-4. Doubles teams Brook
Haitzell and Melissa Hatley and Erin Eggers and Erika
Proko took second and third places, respectively, in the
NCAA. All four players were named All-Americans.

“It’s very, very hard to be an All-American,” Rankin
said. “Only eight doubles teams in the nation are named
All-American out of 327 teams. We are the only school in
the nation to have had two doubles teams.”

Seniors Hartzell. and Eggers graduated, leaving Hatley,
a junior, and Proko, a sophomore, as doubles partners. In
the 2000 Rolex Small College National Tournament, held in
the fall, the two took third in the nation. The pair will team
up this spring with their sights set on first in nationals.

“Our goal is to really do well in the individual doubles
at nationals,” Proko said. “We both went last year with
different partners, and ﬁnished second and third. I think
we should be able to win it this year.”

Other returning nationals players from the previous
spring season include junior captain Sallie Gray Strang
and sophomores Brandi Jane Wedgeworth, Alyson Brice
and Laura Bruno.

The ODAC will not present the team with any great
challenges, as they ﬁnished last season with a conference
record of 1 1-0. “I don’t think we’ve lost a match in ODAC

Courtesy of Sports Information
RETURN snor. Sophomore Erika Proko and the
Generals look to improve upon their NCAA
Division III third-place ﬁnish from 2000.

in about 10 years,” Rankin said.

The top six from the fall lineup will all return for this
season. They include sophomores Wedgeworth, Brice,
Bruno, Proko, Hatley, and freshman Elizabeth Law.

V.

V

,.
!

r~

1

25 with a home match against Ehnira. e V

3

The team’s first match will be against Emory and Henry ‘

on March 4 at home.

Questions, comments, or suggestions
about the sports pages of the P111?

Email Ieremy Franklin at phi@wlu.edu.

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT
l0 student apartments
  available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enioy country living at its finest.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm

at 540-463-6575 or 540-463-2868.

is

V

 

Y

FEBRUARY 12, 2001

S

(lite ﬁling-tum ilﬁlii

PORTS

Mentz, Eastern Mennonite’s

« W&L wins battle of the record setters

1

Mullet shatter scoring

'\- records as W&L wins, 80-69

l.

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball team
underwent a turbulent week, defeating Eastern Menno-
nite in a record-shattering game, then falling to the bal-
anced attack of Randolph—Macon on Saturday afternoon.

On Wednesday night, records fell throughout the
arena as the Generals defeated Eastern Mennonite, 80-
69. Eastern Mennonite guard Emily Mullet scored an Old
Dominion Athletic Conference-record 58 points and tied
the ODAC record with 10 three—point ﬁeld goals.

Mullet came three points short of the NCAA Division
IH record by shooting 20-of—37 from the ﬁeld, including
10-of-24 from behind the arc.

Unfortunately for the Royals, Mullet provided almost
all of Eastern Mennonite’s offense, and W&L gained a
record-setting performance from junior Jessica Mentz.

Mentz scored a school-record 37 points and grabbed
11 rebounds to pace the Generals. Unlike Mullet, Mentz
gained support from a number of teammates, including
junior center Megan Babst, who scored 20 points, col-
lected 17 boards and blocked four shots.

Junior co-captains Sarah Schmidt and Carter Thomas

= V also knocked in 12 points and dished out nine assists,
’ ‘respectively.

Against the Royals, W&L used huge runs to build
leads as large as 20 points, and finally iced the game
with clutch 10-of-12 free throw shooting in the ﬁnal 2: 18
of the game.

When the team played host to Randolph—Macon on
Saturday afternoon, however, it was the visitors who used
a balanced attack and key defense to win the game, 64-54,
and send the Generals to a record of 7-13 and 5-11 in

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

MAN-TO-MAN. Junior Alison Kudlacik tries to pass over Randolph-Macon defender Rachel
Kifer on Saturday at the Warner Center. The Yellow Jackets won the game, 64-54.

conference play.

W&L stuck with Randolph-Macon throughout the first
half, heading to the locker room down 34-26 after an eight
point run by the Yellow Jackets.

The Generals cut the lead to four points, only to lapse
and allow an 11-0 run by the visitors, who built a 47-32
lead with 12:28 remaining. In a complete role reversal, the
Yellow Jackets ended the game with clutch free throws,

an

Men’s team knocks off Royals

W&L sports roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee dropped a
60-52 road decision to Greensboro
College on Wednesday before return-
ing home with a 68-64 win over East-
ern Mennonite on Saturday.

The win against the Royals upped
the Generals’ record to 4-19 on the
season, including a 4-13 mark in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

Despite falling behind 24- 1 1 at half-
time against Greensboro, W&L battled
backtomakeita3l—29 game with 10:34

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

DOUBLE TEAM. Junior Bob Bustamante attempts to shoot over
a pair of Eastern Mennonite defenders in W&L’s 68-64 win.

left in the second half. However, the
Pride rolled off a 12-4 run over the fol-
lowing 4:40 to secure the win.

Senior Chad Braley led the Gener-
als with 15 points and four assists,
and freshman David Bode contrib-
uted l4 points for W&L.

The Generals returned to confer-
ence play on Saturday by edging East-
ern Mennonite in what was a close
contest throughout the game. Junior
Bob Bustamante hit three of his four

I free throws in the ﬁnal 10 seconds of

the game to seal the W&L victory.

Bode scored 11 of his 14 points in
the first half as the Generals took a
32-31 lead into the break. W&L over-
came 51 percent shooting by their op-
ponent, helped along by 23 Eastern
Mennonite turnovers, to knock off
the Royals (9-14, 7-10 ODAC).

Senior Will Ballard led the Gener-
als with 15 points, also ﬁnishing with
three steals, and Bustamante tallied
10 points on the afternoon.

Wrestlers win two
matches at Albright ’

4 In the ﬁnal tuneup before Centen-
nial Conference Championships, held
Feb. 24 at Gettysburg College, the
Washington and Lee wrestling team
won both of its matches in the
Albright Triangular on Saturday.

The’Generals (6-5-l, 2-3 Centen-
nial) defeated Centennial Conference
foe Johns Hopkins, 34-7, and non-
conference Albright, 22-21.

Juniors Ben Segal (125 pounds)
and Ezra Morse (197) won both of
their matches on the day, and Morse

®'roYo'rA  
CALL IT §;i;ARr UP MONEY.   

TOYOTA’S /\COLLEGE GRADUATE
FINANCE PLAN INCLUDES $500
TO GET YOU GOING!

Thc1‘c‘s sure to he a Toyota that’s just right for you

So if you’re within 4 months of graduation -—
or if you graduated within the past 2 years -—
Ask your Toyota dealer for all the details.

www.gettoyota.com

Toyota College Graduate Finance Program available to qualified appli-
cants thru Toyota Financial Services. Not all applicants will qualify. Some
restrictions and limitations apply. Cash back offer subject to geographic
limitations and offer expires 6/30/01. See dealer for details.

improved his record to 19-2 on the
season.

Indoor track teams
run in CNU Frolic

The Washington and Lee indoor
track teams participated in the Chris-
topher Newport University Winter
Frolic on Saturday afternoon.

JuniorMarcWatson ledtl1emen’steam
by placing ﬁfth in the 60-meter dash and
second in the fourth heat of the 200 meters.

Freshman Meghan Hayde won the
first section of the 400 meters, and
senior Wendy Case contributed a sec-
ond-place ﬁnish in the ﬁrst section of
the 800 meters to lead the women.

Both teams will compete in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionships on Feb. 24 at VMI.

And now there’s a Toyota College Graduate Finance Program
that’s just right, too. Here are some of the advantages:
0 No Down Payment

0 ‘No Payment for 90 days

0 Finance up to 72 months
0 Get $500 Cash Back From Toyota...

in addition to any othergcurrent Toyota customer incentives!

Tacoma

sinking ﬁve in the last 2:33.

. This time around, Babst led the team with 20 points
and 13 rebounds, earning her 15th double-double of the
season. Schmidt chipped in 13 points on 6—of-9 shooting.
Following her record-setting game against Eastern Men-
nonite, Mentz was held to nine points on 2—of-9 shooting.

The Generals look to improve in the ODAC when they
travel to Emory and Hemy on Tuesday night.

Upcoming events in W&L athletics

Baseball
Feb. 19
Feb. 20
Feb. 22
Feb. 25

at Olgethorpe
at Emory

at Olgethorpe
Muhlenberg (2)

3 :00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
12:00 p.m.

Men’s Basketball

Feb. 12 at Bridgewater 7:00 p.m.
Women’s Basketball

Feb. 13 at Emory and Henry
Feb. 15 Virginia Wesleyan
Feb. 17 Hollins

Feb. 18 Roanoke

7:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.

Golf

Feb. 23 at Guilford ODAC Invitational TBA
Men’s Lacrosse
Feb. 25 Elmira 1:00 p.m.
Women’s Lacrosse

Feb. 17-18 at South of the Border Toum. All Day

Men’s Swimming
Feb. 15-17 at Grove City Invitational

TBA
Women’s Swimming
Feb. 16-18 at ODAC/Atlantic States Inv.

Men’s Tennis
Feb. 15 VMI

Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track
Feb. 24 at ODAC Championships

Wrestling

Feb. 17 at Centennial Championships

Celica

Trip-On:
Amsterdam Barcelona

Berlin Brussels
Dublin London Madrid

Rome

UNBEATABL 
PRICES!

PACKAGES _lNCLUDE:
- Student roundtrip airfare
0 Accommodations

-g Airport transfers
and Travel Card*

:0 Camera, document
organizer, discounts
guidebooks, maps
and more

*SeIect cities only.

Paris

 

E Clip: itling-tum iﬂlji "
‘% E
E E O 

PAGE 8 >53 e FEBRUARY 12, 2001*

 

Gupiels toting last Word Styles»

 

V1-Qoml \/roomy As Officer Baner I uphold the law,
7’ I "'1" P’ ez And I’ve ticketed, towed and
9’m [ii on/ire _ taken Your car;
la)!’-/-yaupre//yp/ease But t you’ll find my love is
de my uafen. . . /ire.’ — when you pick up your Vehicle
]ing1impo    

 

W message /130121 y3res1'o/en/ 7))usél ..

Why Can’t
someone like me,
Dave How—i—son?

Some people
like Ghengis,

others Attila
the Hun;

 

’ ‘ .1 -4ml\=cniux'z:.c:um
Some people say you re as ide as Shamu,
and sure you can empty a shopping cart;
but I just want to slap your leg
and ride the waves into your heart.

 

From the random hook-up
you just couldn’t pass up


Q ‘U

. $’Weet mail-order bride from France, .

. I now can finally pay your fee;
¢

So drop your frogs and escargot,
 V
e CC to  O C or .0 

 
 
 

‘ " , Roses are red,
V“ Violets are blue;
I have herpes,

And now you do, too! and wrap your urzslzaverz legs

around me.

 

the Question Marquis

Q: Dear Question Marquis: My sisters boyfriend broke up with her over a year ago. But his voice is still on her
answering machine. Should I tell her how pathetic this is? — Stephen in Annapolis

A: My advice here is going like this: It is not a problem, it is an opportunity. There is no truer friend of passion than
the vulnerable rejected lover. You must simply play your cards correctly. I recommend a subtle approach to win her trust.
Perhaps you can tell her about Questia. About how much more free time she will have when she’s writing research papers
if she does the research online. Free time that the two of you could use to, je ne sais pas, get to know each other better?
If you know what I . . .wait~you said your sisters boyfriend? This is a terrible misunderstanding. I have got to stop
skimming these questions.

 

Q: Dear Question Marquis: I am very interested in Questia. Could you please give me some more information about
its exciting features? — T W in Houston '—

Ask the Questia” Marquis is 0’ A: Zut alorsl I think my employer has slipped this one in. But just by chance this is not how the case is, I will answer

it brieﬂy. Questia will have an extensive scholarly collection, and the full text of each book and journal article is all

online. You just enter your topic and then you can instantly search through any book. And many of the author’s own

sources are, how you say, “hyperlinked.” So you can follow the writer’s train of thought,  you like. Also, quotes,
footnotes and bibliographies are all done automatically. And, in a few months, Questia can be used to more efficiently

groom racehorses. Or such is my understanding. That may be confidential information, so don’t go gossiping it about

like a bunch of Montesquieu’s concubines. Now I wish I hadn’t told you. ‘

sporadically produced advice column,
because proper loving takes time.

It is to be read with a silly French accent.
The views of the Question Marquis

are his alone and are in no way to be

construed as representative of his

sponsor, Questia, you American pigs.

“There is no truer friend of passion than the vulnerable rejected lover
You simply must play your cards correctly”

 

Q: Dear Question Marquis: Well ...why did you tell us? In both of your answers, you could have corrected your _
mistakes by using the delete key. '

A: In life, there is no such thing as a delete key. Q.E.D., there is no delete key for writing my column. What’s done is
done, what’s said is said. Vive moi! (Long live me!) ._ ‘

questﬂq

Better Papers. Faster?”

‘Price subject to change. See web site for current pricing. Internet access not included. ©2001 Questia
Media, Inc. Questia, the Questia logotype, “Better Papers. Fasterf,‘ the Q ' Marquis, the Question
Marquis signature, and the Question Marquis question mark symbol are service marks of Questia Media, Inc

www.questia.com

Jebidiah “Nascar” Ne ry —V1R(;|\ FUR Lin-1 .:

7

ta
1:.

 

