          
  

mire 5. La urvavaﬁsarv
 "aw. VA gum

Re  z s 2001

1 C112 itiug-tum tam

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

— .—- _ ‘t:‘V.‘1.'a§."-Si;

  
  

K

\,
_ ,.UI\xr
«Ur

“VOLUME 103, No. 24

tW&L parents
to assemble

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2001

 

3 The Washington and Lee Parents’ Council will meet this
weekend to review the University’s progress in academics,
athletics and construction.

The Parents’ Council is a forum for administrative ideas, and
xfmeets twice annually. Members are chosen for their leadership,
enthusiasm, and interest in getting more involved in campus .
life. This year, the council will focus on the proposed University
Commons and the initiatives of the Alcohol Task Force.
I The parents will participate in a roundtable discussion

‘jwitli University President John Elrod, who will report on the
Alcohol Task Force’s progress.

, “We hope to have a (completed) set of regulations by the
end of the academic year,” Elrod said.

-

1-; * Dean of Residence Life Courtney Penn will speak on hous-
‘ ing and diversity issues.
Barbara Harding, mother of sophomore Andy Harding,
is one of seven vice—chairs on the council. Harding said
she enjoys working on the council because she hears about

. new University developments firsthand.

.3 “We get to hear what’s going on behind the scenes at
W&L, like the progress being made with the new Univer-
sity Commons,” Harding said.

‘V Parents’ Council Chair Michel Marcoux said he will tell

; Elrod and the other parents he is extremely pleased with

3 the University Commons.

. “I think that will make such a difference that in several
years we will classify graduates as pre- or post-commons,”
‘(Marcoux said.
Elrod said Marcoux and the council help him do his job
better.
“They’re very supportive and enthusiastic about what
. the University is trying to accomplish, and they offer won-
derful observations and advice,” Elrod said.
Elrod added he appreciates all that W&L parents do for
the University.
“[The parents] are a valuable resource. . .I’m extremely

’ ‘ if grateful for all they do,” he said.

I Marcoux said he and the council members work hard for

the University because of their love for the University.

“I think W&L is a national treasure,” he said. w

* “Martial arts class recruits students, faculty

“It gives us the opportunity to prepare for situa-
tions that will enable us to have more control in dan-

 

photo b Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
DANCING IN THE DARK. Senior Katie Baldwin and date Andy Bowie, of Duke University,
twirl on the Doremus dance ﬂoor. See more FD photos on pages 4 and 5.

Olson originated Fight Night while training in
Florida. Noticing the popularity of similar programs in

By Mike George

‘ STAFF WRITER
, A Washington and Lee student is ﬁghting for stu-
dent interest in his martial arts program.
Junior Eric Olson, sensei of Lexington’s Shotokan
‘I Martial Arts Center on Nelson Street, started a program
designed to teach students basic ﬁghting techniques.
The program, which he calls “Fight Night,” promotes
basic awareness of martial arts through practical, hands-
on application.

“My, purpose is to try to get people into the martial
arts,” Olsen said. .

Olson said many students have shown interest, but
few have shown up at the meetings. The club meets
from 5-6 p.m. on Wednesdays at the center.

“People say they want to come, but they don’t
show up,” he said.

4

the area, he decided it would be a good idea to start
one in Lexington.

“I thought it would be an awesome thing for the
col1ege.'[It would be] something to get people into
martial arts,” he said.

The club, which met for the first time March 18, has
gained popularity in the Lexington connriunity. W&L
students and faculty also participate in the club. Sopho-
more Timothy Marx sees Fight Night as an outlet for
stress and hopes the program will give students a way
to use their energy constructively. Although he has
worked hard, Marx said he has a long way to go.

gerous situations,” Winstead said. Winstead, who has
been training with Olson since February, hopes that
the program will teach him how to ﬁght defensively.
“I have a habit of thinking offensively and don’t
always consider the person I’m ﬁghting,” Winstead said.
English Professor Marc Conner has studied un-
der Olson since the dojo opened in September 1999.
Conner, who studies karate and jujitsu, said the pro-
gram brings a real-life approach to martial arts train-
ing. He believes studying the martial arts integrates
mind and body.
“It teaches discipline,” Conner said.

“I’ve learned that I have a lot to leam about the

martial arts," Marx said.

Sophomore Garreth Winstead is also excited about

the program.

JOIN THE DARK SIDE. Thaxton Mauzy receives advice from Robert Powers, his
“demon,” in The Author’s Voice, a one-act play directed by Alix Warren.

photo courtesy Lenfest

Olson emphasized that his teaching is defensive.

‘The last thing I want to do is let people think that this
is a fight club with full contact sparring,” he said. “I don’t
want people coming in to learn how to beat people up.”

Student-directed plays hit stage

By Latrina Stokes
W _ __p A STAFF WRITER

Originality takes center stage when mem-
bers of the advanced directing class present
one-act plays in the Lenfest Center’s
Johnson Theater.

All theater performance majors are re-
quired to direct at least once in addition
to their work onstage.

“It’s a challenge, but it’s good because
you see how difﬁcult it is to get the whole
production together,” junior Alix Warren said.

Warren acted in several plays over the
last three years, most recently in The El-
ephant Man. Warren said directing has im-
proved her abilities as an actor.

“It makes you a better actor, because
you can appreciate how hard directing
is," Warren said.

Warren will direct Richard Greenberg’s
The Authors Voice. Warren said the play
will be funny and surprising.

“It is a dark fairy tale world that crosses

the line of reality,” Warren said.

Both cast members and directors en-
joy the freedom to experiment with these
short plays.

“They are really popular not only for the
students involved but for everyone else

, they are entertaining,” cast member Renee

Harper, a senior, said.

Harper will act in F.M. , written by
Romulus Linney and directed by senior
Cassie Ritter.

“The One Acts are our time to try some-
thing new and possibly dangerous,”
Ritter said. “Hopefully, my show will make
people react.”

Senior Kathie Soroka acts in The Original
Last Wish Baby, written by William Seebring
and directed by senior Blair Mitchell.

“It comments on how Americans are so
fooled by the media and so eager to jump
on sensational stories,” Soroka said.

Senior Brooke deRosa wrote the play she
will direct, C n'me PaySAfterAll. DeRosa said
she wanted to direct an old-fashioned mys-

tery play. When she could not ﬁnd one to
her liking, she wrote one herself.

“I was imspired by watching the many
murder mystery movies of the 1940s like
Sherlock Hohnes and Phillip Marlowe,” she
said. “I thought it would be fun to attempt
a play of my own device.”

Junior Micah Tolman said that tradi-
tional theater does not always engage
the audience enough to be effective, so
he chose to direct Eugene Ionesco’s
The Bald Soprano, an alternative com-
edy.

“Its primary focus is the absurdity, irony,
and futility of the human experience,”
Tolman said. “The randomness is hysteri-
cally funny but it is also unsettling funny
and terrifying.”

Crime Pays After All and The Bald So-
prano will play March 30 and April 4 at 8
p.m. and March 31 at 2 pm. The Author’s
Voice, EM., and The Original Last Wish
Baby will be shown March 31 and April 5
at 8 p.m. and April 2 at 9 p.m.

N
v( - ‘ - .~ .
~ ~ v « . Let me te something: Goo times rolled: W ,h the birdies: All things mu ‘ end:
   "1-wants W   1oses to W&L women’s la 3 osse team
March 26 2001 iece ~ Ha  317.318 has five-game Winning streak
A, ’ "Washington

  
  
 

 
   

 
 

 

  

 

 

PAGE 2

  Ellie iﬁtng-tum iﬂlrt

MARCH 26, 2001

    

national recognition.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
SERVICE WITH A SMILE. Junior Stacy

'McLoughlin’s record of service won her

a Student recognized for service

Stacy McLoughlin, a junior from West Chester,
Pa., received the Seeds of Service Award from
the Campus Outreach Opportunity League
(COOL) at its 17th annual conference, “The Path
of Service Leads from Charity to Justice,” held in
Boston.

McLough1in was recognized for creating last-
ing change through innovation and tenacity. The
award is given to a student who has “demon-
strated outstanding leadership, creativity and
innovation.”

McLoughlin founded the N abors Service
League, a community outreach program at W&L
that matches students with many volunteer or-
ganizations in Rockbridge County. She is also
program coordinator for Project Outreach, a dorm
counselor, philanthropy chair for Kappa Delta
sorority and a member of P.R.I.D.E. and the Shep-
herd Poverty Program Review Committee.

She received the Omicron Delta Kappa Sopho-
more Leadership Award and was inducted into
the society earlier this year.

. story courtesy W&L website

The ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti congratulates its staff on
winning the following Virginia Press
Association college newspaper awards:

First place, News writing
“Pi Beta Phi house evacuated”

First place, Sports photography
Second place, Sports photography

Third place, Sports photography

Alison Trinidad

Colin Mitchell
Mary Guy

Lisa Lin

 

Until the practices of the “typical college student” change, these are
the alternatives to deaths, DUIs, MIPS, etc. Our intention is” not to
enable risky behavior but to prevent irresponsible decisions.

 

W&L awarded Congressional grant for

poverty program

Washington and Lee University has received a $500,000
direct appropriation from Congress to expand the Shepherd
Poverty Prograrn’s unique focus in merging students’ academic
study of poverty with intensive field service projects.

The grant, part of an appropriation act recently passed by
Congress, was secured by Sen. John W. Warner ’49 and former
Sen. Charles Robb. David Bradley, executive director of the
National Community Action Foundation, was instrumental in
the University’s grant proposal.

_ Students in the Shepherd Program study the complex ori-

Provided by individual Greek organizations during events.

 

When: Friday,>,and Saturday (10pm'to at least 3am)

0 Washington and Lee vans drive a designated route
within Lexington City limits——Davidson Park, Red
Square, Campus, East Lex and Windfall area, and
Hobbes/Raisin region.

 

When: Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday (10pm to 2am)
Contact: via cell phone numbersl—-460-3054 and 460-3055

0 Look for individual cars with Live Drive signs on sides of car
0 Will drive reasonable distances to country homes

sidering how their careers will impact the poor. The program’s

interdisciplinary studies are integrated with students’ hands- _

on work in health clinics, Legal Aid offices and homeless shel-
ters in Richmond, Roanoke and Washington. W&L students
have assisted hundreds of people since the program began
four years ago.

“I am proud that Washington and Lee is playing a lead role
in the effort to reach out to those most in need,” said Warner,

gins, obstacles and generational trends of poverty while con— .

‘V

   

chairman of the Amred Services Committee and a member of j

the Senate’s education panel. “The point is to give the less

fortunate the attention, training and tools necessary to climb A

up and out of poverty."

With funds from the grant, the Shepherd Program is expand— 
ing service projects in Latin America, Kentucky and West Vir— ,

ginia, and cities including New Orleans, Atlanta and New York.
About 24 W&L undergraduates and law students, in alliance

with students at Berea, Morehouse and Spelman colleges, will 

be working in impoverished communities in those areas this .

summer. ‘we ':~ 

;    g; -  i story courtesy W&L website ,

Office of Health Promotion {and Substance AbuselPreve‘ntion

 

 

 

MARCH 26, 2001

O

@112 Itiing-tum lﬂhi

PINION

PAGE 3

There comes a time in every writer’s life
when losing favor with the consensus ne-
cessitates itself. Perhaps my time has come.
I think I'm going to be quasi-serious this
week, in choosing to abandon. vain attempts
at humor for the greater cause of extolling
self-suﬂiciency.

I was reading Cosmo, and though I know
I shouldn’t take anything seriously that
promises better orgasms through yoga ex-
ercises, there’s a

ducing Mr. Wonderful when you’re sober?
So many people exploit the glories of al-
cohol, so much that it has become like a po-
etically twisted analogy: Getting drunk is like
writing poetry — you can’t be held account-
able for any resulting BS. “Oh, my God. I said
that? I totally don’t remember.” Liar. Instead
of the administration trying to abolish alco-
hol, they should be working to eradicate
Dnmk Posers. Drink all you want, just so long
as you ’re sincerely

feature in it every
month withtheserni-
nor suggestions to-

No1thetner’s Exposure d““‘k~ And Y°“”° “‘*
Kris Pollina ’03

in g it for yourself. Ralph
Waldo Emerson once

ward better living.

The top of the page reads, “Why don’t you. .

 Okay, granted, some ideas have been “wake
I him with nooky,” and the like, but I digress.
I’m offering my own “Why don’t you. . 
week. And it’s to rely on yourself.

It is inordinately depressing to hear
the phrase “I want to go talk to him, but
I’m not drunk enough yet,” pass from
someone’s lips. So many girls complain
about the guys here, but how is anyone
supposed to get an accurate depiction

y of you if you only want to present yourself

as a more capricious and drunk version? I
know, I am making a sweeping generaliza-
tion. Not everyone entertains that degree
of insecurity. I’m not claiming to be a poster
girl for sobriety, but why don’t you try se-

said, “It is easy in the
world to live after the world’s opinion; it is
easy in solitude to live after our own; but the
great man is he who in the midst of the crowd
keeps with perfect sweetness the indepen-
dence of solitude.” W&L doesn’t exactly em-
brace iconoclasm. Don’t read this as an en-
couragement to rupture the code here and
go out of your way to be a superfreak. Just
whatever you do, do it on your own terms.
One of my greatest pet peeves is de-
pendence. I know it’s fun to go out
scouring fraternity houses for your crush
—- God knows I’ve been there —— but upon
finding him grinding some other chick, it’s
not the end of the world. Don’t base your
contentment on someone else. I apologize
for throwing in another literary allusion,

E EDITOR

:Drink for the right reasons, please

 

    

'gA'l!\Oli3'l"03o...

m.+-.1 1 co.n-\'n\K'l°lj'_'§-

    
 

 only 0.

      

By Christine Metzger

but it’s like J .D. Salinger wrote in Franny
and Zooey, “do it for the fat lady,” mean-
ing do it for yourself. “Nothing can bring
you peace but yourself.” (Emerson is tum-
ing over in his grave, listening to me employ

his genius in terms of W&L culture.)

I’m far from the Statue of Liberty or any-
thing; I hope I follow my own advice, and get
wasted because it makes me a better dancer,
not because I want some action.

‘LETTERS TO TH

Women’s Studies is rigorous,
necessary, instructive

4 Dear Editor,

Several of our peers have recently written complaints to the
student papers claiming that the new Women’s Studies pro-
gram is sirnply a response to a “fad” that undennines the
academic character of W&L. I would like to dispel this notion.

V I am one of two student representatives who serve on the
Courses and Degrees Committee. Along with several mem-
bers of the faculty and Dean Boetsch, we examine proposed
changes to the curriculum and either accept or reject those

4, changes. In this role, we spent several meetings discussing

' the Women’s Studies proposal. This proposal was formulated
by Professors Wheeler, Stewart, and Radulescu in consulta-
tion with an ad-hoc committee of faculty who are interested in
forming a Women’s Studies program. The faculty involved

*7 examined the Women’s Studies programs at other colleges
and universities and designed a program that would best ﬁt
W&L’s current resources and needs. According to the testi-
mony of Professors Wheeler, Stewart, and Radulescu to the

V‘ Courses and Degrees Committee, the proposal was motivated
in part by student desire to have a structured program within
which they may examine the roles and lives of women. The
resulting program is a product of over a year of careful thought
and discussion, in addition to passing exacting review by

‘t Courses and Degrees. I have full conﬁdence that this program

will give students access to another approach to academic
inquiry that is as rigorous as any other discipline currently
offered at W&L; if I had any doubt of the rigor, I would not

have voted to approve the program. I would not vote for a

program merely in response to a “fad.” I have examined, and
voted to approve, the proposal for the upcoming spring term
course in Women’s Studies. The material to be covered and
discussed is not trivial, norwill the program be trivial. Women’s

V Studies has been for several decades nationally and interna-
tionally acknowledged as a respected area of scholarship.

I encourage students who are concerned about

‘I @112 illing-tum {ﬂirt

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco

T News Editors Matt McDermott

Mike Agnello

Assistant News Editor Max Smith

Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel

Assistant Opinion Editor Brett Kirwan

W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Copy Editor Kris Pollina
Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden
Photo Editor Mary Guy

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
‘V’ 208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
T E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Women’s Studies, or any other aspect of the curriculum,
to contact me. Concerns about the women’s studies pro-
gram may also be directed to Professor Radulescu.
Sincerely,

Julie Fitzer ’03

Women’s Studies focuses on

women locally and globally

Dear Editor,

In the name of W&L tradition, I am pleased to see that
Brett Kirwan’s ar1icle “Women’s Studies is mother of all evil”
is defended as an opinion. Unfortunately, I am afraid that
W&L students share that opinion. I do not want to com-
pletely echo Professor Mayock’s response to Ms.
Culpepper’s like article in the Trident, but an article such as
Mr. Kirwan’s should drive more to demand and defend
Women’s Studies, and not the other way around. Yes, we all
acknowledge that W&L is a male-friendly, traditional, “meat
and potatoes school.” I’m so glad members of the student
body came here so that they wouldn’t “fall victim to political
correctness.” God forbid we learn more than those before us.

I think it’s clear that a Women’s Studies program is more
than necessary on this campus, and not only for education
purposes. I did not come here because it was male—friendly,
stuck-in—the-South type school. I didn’t even come here to
get married. I came here to get the education. And a good
education is not one based solely in the C—school. 'Ihe pov-
erty course is the best course I’ve ever taken. I can’t wait to
take a Women’s Studies course.

I think a more female—friendly school would be a welcome
change. There are big issues here. Yes, nine out of 10 W&L
guys have never sexually harassed or raped a woman. But
that means one out of 10 have. One out of 10. And that scares
me. Many people on this campus don’t realize what it means
when a man hurts or takes advantage of a woman. What kind
of people do that? Men need to learn as much as women do
about feminist perspective.

In response to Mr. Kirwan’s article: You’re kidding, right?
Clearly you have no clue as to what the Women’s Studies
program entails. Also, speaking as a woman, do you have
any idea what happens to other women in the world? Men
cut off our genitals in Africa, they rape our children in
Bosnia, they beat us in Islamic lands, they take away our
right to speak in Taliban areas, they are legally entitled to
makeamore money than us in the US, they are legally al-
lowed to rape their wives in Tennessee. . . and so on. This
said, most of us here have been given so much, therefore
we need to give a lot back. Women’s Studies should help to
educate us about one more area in which we can help.

Being a feminist doesn’t mean I want to abolish marriage
and kill my children; it means that I want to look at things
how they usually are not, i.e. from a woman’s perspective. I
wish I didn’t only know the great actions of men through-
out history. I wish I could name ﬁve women artists. I wish I
didn’t have to know that it is better to be pretty than smart.
Especially here. Thinking that a Women’s Studies program
would “give radical feminists a place in the school to indoc-
trinate young, impressionable females” is ridiculous. First

TALKback:

 

 

of all, it’s insulting to think that the women who got in here
(and it’s a lot harder for females than for males) are not
smart enough to judge for themselves what matters and
what doesn’t; and it should be even more insulting to think
that men come here to avoid such studies.
Someone please restore my faith in humanity.

Sincerely,

Nancy Rhinehart, ’03

Women’s Studies has deep roots

Dear Editor,

A few thoughts in response to Brett Kirwan’s mater-
nal anxieties (“Women’s Studies is mother of all evils,”
March 19, 2001), and the broader campus dialogue about
the institutionalization of a Women’s Studies program_at
Washington and Lee.

I’m both puzzled and frustrated by anxious attempts to
deﬁne feminism as the province of “the academic looney
bin,” rather than the radical notion that men and women
should be treated equally. At a co-educational, liberal arts
college, we should celebrate rather than disavow (‘I’m not
a feminist but. . .’) this basic principle of civil society. A
program in Women’s Studies is but one arena through
which innocent assumptions about the ‘risks’ of feminism
might be productively manned, into more sophisticated
and varied understandings of gender and society.

Moreover, like other “new” curricular initiatives such as
enviromnental studies, Women’s Studies (and the methodolo-
gies through which it challenges students to think) has effec-
tively been a part of this campus for many years. Just as the
environmental studim program draws on precedent curricular
offerings in biology, economics, philosophy, and literature, so
will the Women’s Studies curriculum centralize the proven
strengths of its faculty and the varied interests of its students
— across the disciplinary spectrum — who recognize gender
to be a crucial determinant of our social environments, at and
beyond our so-called “meat and potatoes school.” Like many
of my students and colleagues, I recently chose to come to
this University precisely because I was interested in more
varied fare, because our administration has signaled its sup-
port for these, and other interdisciplinary commitments.

As an English professor, I’ll conclude by noting that
Shakespeare — my own area of expertise, and that bulwark of
the educational “tradition” — has only been a part of univer-
sity curricula since the 1880s. Unusual as it may have seemed
at the time, the (belated) study of Shakespeare as instructive
literature was a disciplinary development that has proven strik-
ingly durable and even, I daresay, culturally useful (though it’s
admittedly hard to assess an academic “fad” when it’s older
than you are). In my own contributions to the Women’s Stud-
ies program at Washington and Lee, I’m more likely to turn to
the once—radical curricular innovations of Shakespeare, than
to the comforting truisms of Men ’s Health or the handy ency-
clopedia. I may simply need to broaden my reading, but then
again, it’s precisely through such inquiry that liberal educa-
tion, at our liberal arts college, most stands to ﬂourish.
Sincerely,

Eric Wilson
Assistant Professor of English

 

 

i “I had a great time. What more
could you want?”
—— Brad Smith ’04

“The night had a magical quality which
made it a lovely dream.”
-—- Shyarna Wickrarnaaratchi ’04

If “I don’t remember it.”
— Micah Tolrnan ’02

http://wlu.edu/~phi “At first, I didn’t want to go, but I’m
. A I b p _ I $30 glad I did and I had a great time.”
nnua SL1 Sl'lp[10Il rate. : Devin Dickson ,O4

 

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

 FANCY DRESS 

Letting the good times

TAKING BREAK. Sophomores Amina Elg uacem
and Federico Cardone sit and chat.

SIIAI<E TIIAI GROOVE THANG. Seniors Jeff Sloan and Michael
Capron are willing to do anything to get in the paper.

<

RELAXING AND PUTTING YOUR FEE’l‘ UP. Freshman Zakiyah

FANCY F‘()()TWEAR. Sophomore Stacy Kimmel
Bradford gets a foot massage from her date, Kyle Terry.

shows her dancing shoes to junior Rob Naftel.

IT I)oN’T MEAN A THING IF IT AIN’T GOT THAT swING. The Kings of Swing entertain a more low key
crowd in the elegantly decorated Doremus gym.

0 , on, PICK ME. SenIors Fred HeIser and Martha Cornbrooks ham It up for the photographer. SW CHEESE. Junior David Thomhin and date Mn")? Rnrhpr “amp to Qmﬂn fm, tho mmera"

Flip: ﬁling-tum iﬂhi

 FANCY DRESS 
roll: Fancy Dress 2001

DECORATIONS, DECOR TIONS, EVERYWH IRE A starburst of christmas lights illuminates the evening f r A \ OU HAVING FUN? Junior Emily Peck greets freshman Abby Perdue and jum r

x dancers in Doremus gym. Hillary Lockemer.

COUPLE ACT VITIES. Senior Matt
Herman and date Katy Kruschwitz
J practice some swing moves (above).
Junior Wes Rankin and sophomore
Robin Graham Sit 0“ the Stage as the ROLL ()UT THE RED CARPET. Students leaving the ball admire the lights and decorations from the

band takes 3 break (right foot of the stairs at Warner Center.
Y _

aner joins he rest 0 security in keeping a watchful eye on art ers ll ght.

All F ancy Dress 11 horas by Emilpv Barnes,/E.\‘ec‘z1rive Editor and Mary Guy/Photo Editor

 

PAGE 6

S iléiﬁrs

W&L falls one stroke short

Generals ﬁnish a
close second in
W&L Invitational

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Playing without Old Dominion
Athletic Conference powerhouse
Guilford, the Washington and Lee golf
team hoped to secure a first-place ﬁn-
ish at the Lexington Golf and Country
Club on Thursday.

With a combined score of 318, the
Generals fell one stroke short of

Hampden—Sydney, which won a tour-
nament for the first time this spring.
W&L head coach Gavin Colliton be-
lieved his team should have taken ﬁrst
at the W&L ODAC Invitational.

“It was disappointing to ﬁnish sec-
ond,” Colliton said. “There were
tough conditions, but we needed
some guys to shoot better. I don’t
think our conﬁdence is shaken, but
you’ve got to be ready to play every-
day and in every condition.”

Sophomore Chuck Green shot a 75
as the medallist in the event, ﬁnish-
ing a stroke ahead of W.D. Ferriel of
Lynchburg and Steve Purdy of
Hampden-Sydney.

“Anytime you can be the medal-
list, that’s fantastic,” Colliton said
of Green. “He’s been working hard,
and he’s starting to see some re-
sults, and some consistent scores
in the mid-70s.”

Senior Clayton Chandler shot
an 80 to place second on the Gen-
erals, followed by sophomores
Chip Campbell at 81 and David
Haase at 82.

W&L has two conference
invitationals remaining before the
ODAC Championships on April 23
and 24. The Generals travel to
Roanoke on April 3 and Emory and
Henry on April 16, two events which

should give Colliton a better impres-
sion of how his team will fare at the
championships.

“The conference matches just give
everybody an idea of where they
stand,” Colliton said. “I still think
everyone’s second behind Guilford.

“The four of us (W&L,
Hampden-Sydney, Lynchburg, and
Roanoke) seem to have a good
fight between us for second, but I
don’t want to concede anything to
Guilford. You just never know
what’s going to happen.”

The Generals will compete in the
Camp Lejeune Invitational on Satur-
day and Sunday.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

 

MARCH 26, 2001 -,.-

1;rave| All in a Week’s work
e 3§:t:°:§r Borges tabbed as

player of the week in
ODAC, nation
By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
  

    

>free of hassles
>friee of rip offs _
>friee for you with 1 0 friends!

For the week of March 19, 360lacrosse.com
named Washington and Lee senior attacker
Liz Borges as Division HI Women’s Lacrosse
National Player of the Week.

With eight goals and one assist that week,
Borges also earned Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Player of the Week Honors. More-
over, her superior performance helped lift the
Generals to ODAC victories over Guilford and
Virginia Wesleyan.

...Get 10 friends to go
and you’ll go free!

European Discoveryl

from $975
1 4 days including Amsterdam,
Paris, and Rome

Ring—tum Phi File Photo
. . SENIOR LEADERSHIP. Liz Borges received
Borges contributes to the team in every

possible manner, according to head coach Jan multiple player of the week honors for
Hathom‘ the week of March 19.

  

nondwldounniun
hr10to%yZoi®

 ij

uuu.counciLtraveL.com

1 -800-i-ZCOUNCIL

Experience Contlkl with a group of friends
booked on the same trip at the same time and
the 1 1th person travels free or everyone in your
group gets 10% off. Prices are land only and
do not include airfare. '

“Whether scoring, assisting, working hard quiet leader, in that she leads by example.”
in practice, or simply encouraging her team- Borges’ superior play and leadership is ex-
mates,” Borges devotes herself to, “making tremely impressive, considering she took last year
the entire team better in ways that often go off to concentrate on academics. Leading the team
unseen,” Hathom said. with 15 goals and tied for the lead with 27 points,

Citing Borges’ continuous work with fresh— Borges has added greatly to the overall success
man goalies Joanna Perini and Annie of the Generals, who currently rank 15th in the
Tompkins, Hathom added, “(Borges) acts as a IWLCA Division III poll.

RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUALEUNUS THUSTSERVIEES TUITION FINANEING

TaX— deferred solutions
from TLAA—CREF can
help you reach your
retirement goals faster.

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today”

TAX IJEFEBHAI. MAKES A DIFFERENCE

  
 
  

doesn't apply to taxes.

$102,068
That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes “H WWW mes.
can add up to significantly more money for you-—— $67 514
money you can use to supplement your pension and - Aﬁ:'**“%:ax savings

Social Security.

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAS), IRAS and
other tax-saving solutions—along with TIAA—CREF's
low expenses and solid history of performance-can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

. permonthfor 9 cars

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount pm imo a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart a e is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reﬂect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reﬂect expenses. . -

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

‘ ‘ Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

1.800.842.2776       
www.tiaa—cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before ; » .. ,
you invest. - IIAA-C REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. _ _ ’ " -, y
- Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. 0 TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 0 Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. 0 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—Col|ege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04

 

 

{MARCH 26, 2001

S

Ellie illing-tum‘ iﬂhi .

PORTS

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team ex-
tended its winning streak to ﬁve games before having
Qtheir momentum stopped on Saturday afternoon by a
tough Mary Washington team.
The Generals entered the week ranked 15th in the
IWLCA Division IH poll, up ﬁve spots from the previous
(poll. W&L used this momentum to earn a hard-fought
victory in Old Dominion Athletic Conference play, an 11-
7 win over Roanoke College.
Roanoke opened the scoring with a quick goal, com-
ing ten seconds into the contest. After the Maroons took
Ya 2-0 lead, the Generals countered with four unanswered
goals as junior Emily Owens, sophomore Leslie Bogart,
and seniors Liz Borges and Ellen Ritsch, all attackers,
notched goals.
“We have great depth,” senior co-captain Martha
‘Combrooks said. “When a number of people can score, it
makes it harder for other teams to concentrate on only
one_ person.”
After another four—goal spurt to end the half, the Gen-
gerals held an 8-3 lead, which they would never relinquish.
Bogart added two goals in the second half to ﬁnish
the day with four goals and an assist. Freshman Joarma
Perini made 11 saves in goal to preserve the win.
Despite a 6-1 record, including a perfect 5-0 mark in
ODAC play, the Generals faced a daunting non—confer-
ence opponent in No. 8 Mary Washington on Saturday.
The Eagles, speciﬁcally junior Briana Gervat, proved
to be too much for W&L in a tough 17-6 loss.
Y Gervat scored seven first-half goals and led the Eagles

« “Eagles halt W&L winning strea

Ring-mPhi File Photo

VEER RIGHT. Sophomore Kathleen Gibson defends Virginia Wesleyan’s Summer Foster on
March 17. W&L topped Roanoke on Thursday before falling to Mary Washington on Saturday.

to a quick 8-2 lead. After a run of six unanswered goals
late in the half, the Eagles led 16-4 at halftime. The Gener-
als never recovered, despite outscoring Mary Washing-
ton 2-1 in the second half.

Owens and freshman midﬁelder Kelly Taffe led the Gen-
erals with two goals apiece. Perini was busy in the net,

making 14 saves in a losing effort.

“It was a tough game, but we held ourselves to-
gether,” Cornbrooks said. “We just have to prepare for
the next game.”

The Generals’ next game will be at home against Oberlin
College on Thursday at 4 p.m.

(Generals hammer Virgini eeyan

 

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

While most Washington and Lee
“Students were busy with their Fancy
Dress plans on Saturday, the men’s
lacrosse team was hard at work in their
first Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

”ence match of the season.

That’s not to say the Generals
didn’t enjoy themselves, as they eas-
ily beat the Blue Marlins’ 19-5.

Senior attacker Matt Dugan, who

’scored six goals and three assists,
said the Blue Marlins (4-3, 0- 1 ODAC)
were an easy opponent.

“They didn’t have a really good

*.defense,” Dugan said. “They left me
open for shots and I took them.”

The Generals opened the game
with guns blazing, jumping out to a
5-0 lead in the first quarter.

‘K; “We just came out shooting,” said
senior Pope Hackney, who scored
ﬁve goals and two assists to help the
Generals earn the win.

Senior Bernie Norton also cut
through the Blue Marlins’ defense,

I one shot he faced.

adding four goals and an assist. Hack- g  V 1 ..  “" '

ney said the defense was unable to
contain Norton.

“Bernie was running around them
all day,” Hackney said.

The Generals only allowed one
goal in the first half, holding a 9-1 lead
at halftime. Senior goaltender Wes
Hays played most of the game, mak-
ing six saves and allowing four goals.
Freshman Ansel Sanders played
seven minutes in relief, stopping the

Junior John Moore scored two
goals, and senior Tom Burke and jun-
ior Andrew Barnett each added a goal.
Sophomore Matt Conners had an as-
sist.

The Generals outshot Virginia
Wesleyan 48- 18 and converted ﬁve
of seven extra-man opportunities.
Faceoff margin was much more even,
as W&L gained a slight advantage,
15-13, over the Blue Marlins.

W&L (6-0, 1-0 ODAC) is currently
ranked second in the NCAA Division
III. They will travel to face ODAC foe
Roanoke at 4 p.m. on Wednesday.

- Ru1g~tum Phi I"ll6 Photo
ODAC OPENER. Junior Andrew Barnett and the Generals proved to be

unwelcome guests at Virginia Wesleyan, where they handed the Blue Marlins
a 19-5 loss on Saturday to open the 2001 conference schedule.

,Track teams compete in Roanoke Invitational

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

V The Washington and Lee track teams continued their out-
door schedule on Saturday with the Roanoke Invitational.
The women’s team tied for third place in a seven-tearn
ﬁeld, and the men’s squad placed fourth in the eight-team
event. Roanoke won the women’s event, while
'Bridgewater took ﬁrst on the men’s side.

In men’s competition, W&L’s 4x100—meter relay team
won its event with a time of 43.64 seconds, and senior
Sandy Cooper ﬁnished second in the 1,500 meters. In ﬁeld
events, senior Chris Wahl won the discus event, and fresh-
man James Watson placed first in the javelin throw.

The Generals benefited from several second-place
finishes on the women’s side. In track events, senior
Amy Calce placed second in the 100 meters, junior
Melissa Palombo was the runner-up in the 100-meter

high hurdles, and senior Jessica Parrillo finished sec-
ond in the 10,000 meters.

In the ﬁeld, junior Katie Kennedy narrowly missed a
win in the discus, and classmate Sarah Schmidt turned in
a runner-up finish in the javelin.

The W&L track teams will split up on Saturday. The
women’s team will run in the Battleground Relays at Mary
Washington, while the men’s team will compete in the
Bridgewater Invitational.

1 Baseball
March 27 at Bridgewater 3:00 pm.
March 28 Shenandoah 3:00 p.m.
March 31 at Eastern Mennonite (2) 12:00 p.m.

all April 1 St. Mary’s (Md.) 1:00 p.m.
April 3 Southern Virginia 3:00 p.m.
April 14 Virginia Wesleyan (2) 12:00 pm
April 18 at Haverford 3:30 p.m.

ﬁr April 19 at Swarthmore 3:30 p.m.
April 21 Lynchburg (2) 12:00 p.rn.
Apr. 27-29 at ODAC Tournament TBA
Golf

~. March 31 at Camp Lej eune Invitational TBA
April 3 at Roanoke ODAC Invitational TBA
April 16 at Emory & Henry ODAC Invite TBA
Apr. 23-24 at ODAC Championships TBA

If Men’s Lacrosse
March 28 at Roanoke 4:00 pm
March 3 1 Marymount 1:30 pm.
April 4 Greensboro 3:30 p.m.

4; April 14 Guilford 1:30 p.m.
April 18 Lynchburg 3:30 p.m.
April 21 at Hampden-Sydney 1:00 p.m.
April 28 at VMI , 2:00 p.m.

‘I Women’s Lacrosse
May 29 Oberlin 4:00 p.m.
May 31 at Denison 1:00 p.m.
April 14 Bridgewater 4:00 p.m.

-2

A look ahead in Washington and Lee athletics

April 17 Hollins 4:30 p.m.
April 19 at Lynchburg 4:00 p.m.
April 21 Washington College '1 :00 p.m.
Apr. 25-29 at ODAC Tournament TBA
Men’s Tennis

March 27 at Virginia Wesleyan 3:00 p.m
March 30 Emory 3:00 p.m
April 1 Swarthrnore 10:00 a.m
April 2 at Roanoke 3:30 p.m.
April 4 Lynchburg 3:00p.m.
April 17 at Sewanee 2:00 p.m.
Apr. 20-21 at ODAC Tournament TBA
Women’s Tennis

March 30‘ vs. Emory at Trinity (Tx.) 12:O0p.m
March 31 vs. Trinity 12:00 p.m
April 1 vs. Gustavus Adolphus 9:00 a.m.
April 3 at Randolph-Macon Woman’s 4:30 p.m
April 14 at Guilford 9:00 a.m
April 20 at Agnes Scott 3200 p.m
April 21 at Sewanee 1:00 p.m
April 22 at Emory and Henry 1:30 p.m
Apr. 27-29 at ODAC Championships TBA

Men’s and Women’s Outdoor Track

March 31 at Bridgewater Invitational (men)TBA

at Battleground Relays (women)TBA
April 14 at Lynchburg Invitational TBA
April 21 at Eastern Mennonite Invite TBA
April 28 at ODAC Championships TBA

Ring-tum Phi File
SHOOTING FOR DISTANCE. Junior Sarah Schmidt
placed second in the javelin throw at the
Roanoke Invitational on Saturday.

5 Questions, comments, or
i suggestions? Contact

‘ Jeremy Franklin at-X4060
I or at phi@wlu.edu.

5

 

 

 

Assistant Alumni Director Study Outside
I - for On—Line Communications ‘   

   

The Washington and Lee Alumni Office armounces the opening for the position of Assistant Alumni Director

for On—Line Communications. Responsibilities include: oversight of "Colonnade Connections," W&L's Alumni The Castle   3130113033 l,
On;)Il.ine Coipﬂmunity, maintaining and updating that service's on—line message boards, its design, and utilizing its ‘ an Ofﬂ can]_p"{1S   
" ast" em ' capabilities in communicating with the entire alumni population (or segments thereof); serve as A ' * , ' °
liaison to the on-line community provider and other campus web users; design and maintain Alumni Ofﬁce c9In’b1neS cpursework in reilgj-?11)
homepages and websites; assist Career Services with career list requests; serve as advisor to Kathekon, W&L's ph11OS0phy, llteratﬂfe aﬂd 31' t 
::::i1iit:;llumniAssodci.ation; answer requests for alumni lists and research pr0J“‘-cts; compose obituaries for the  acking,   7
gazine, ai in general alumni office planning for homecoming, reunion and alumni chapter events. . _
‘ Travel involved. and 
The position will become available June 15, 2001, and preference will be given to W&L alumni and 2001 A  SD80!‘-3  f01'  by
degree candidates. All candidates for this position should submit a cover letter and resume no later   3333101}:   — Dec_ 

than Wednesday, March 28, 2001. All materials should be sent to: _ V
Vislt the CRI website to request an application. '-

P

Rob Mish
Director of Alumni Programs

 Castle Rock Institute

Lexington, VA 24450

EMAIL: rrnish@wlu.edu _ R0. BOX  Brevard, NC   5r

TEL: 540-463-8464

    WWW.castIe - rock.org j

WA TERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT

10 student apartments **
available June 1, 2001 

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enjoy country living
at its finest. l.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive. >-
Please call Tim Wilhelm  
at 540-463-6575
or 540-463-2868.

  
    
   
 
 
   
     
   
   
     
     
      
   
  

CAMP COUNSELORS.

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

  

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

‘

Archery, Baseball, Basketba||,,Climbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, |n|ine—Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

  

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

 

Camp Greylock
for Boys:

  

888-2-romaca 1-800-842-5214

   
   

  

“M,w_camQ,.°maCaVco,’n www.camggreylock.com

€

What are you doing this summer?

Ask the Question Marquis

Q: Dear Question Marquis.‘ How many times do I have to tell my roommate that just because hes stressed out, its no
excuse for his “accidentally gnawing on my ankles? _—Jeﬁ" in Seattle

‘al

A: I am not interested in your problem right now. I am outraged. Do you know that I went to try to purchase a fanner . ,
today? What kind of world has this become when a marquis carmot cheaply acquire someone to fan him as he sleeps?
And yet access to an extensive collection of digitized books and journal articles costs less than the price of two pizzas
a month? It is making no sense. It is like a horse with two derriéres. V A ‘

 

-~ = Q: Dear Question Marquis: I ’ve got a paper due on Diderotis‘ political inﬂuence. I figured, “The Question Marquis is
L% a?  ﬂ ‘ from the French Enlightenment — maybe he could give me some insight.” So. . . any scoop? — Karen in Santa Monica
éa ..

A: Yes. You are fortunate you" asked. Diderot was an idiot. He had the political inﬂuence of my poodle’s phlegm. Do
you know, he had his Ds coming before his Cs in l’Encyclopédie before I straightened it out for him? If there were a
French Enlightenment, you can be sure that Denis Diderot knew nothing about it. So you are best behooving to pick a
SP0mdiCa1b’P"0d_“Ced advice COZWW’ new topic. Once you do, go to questia.com to Search for an extensive collection of scholarly books and journal articles
because proper loving takes time. p ' to reference in your paper. That should make up for some of the time you wastedthinking about Diderot. Time that you _
It is to be read with a silly French accent. can use to improve the thoughts you will put into a new paper. So Questia will not only save you beaucoup de time, but *«
The views ofthe Quest,-on Marquis _ it will also help you to write‘ia better paper. And of course, my loyal readers (you feisty roustabouts, you!) will know it
are his alone and are in no way to be that Questia also does your footnotes and bibliographies automatically, once you have finished your paper. You can part
~ with a few francs for that, can you not?

Ask the Question Marquis is a

 

construed as representative of his

sponsor; Questia, youAmerican pigs.- *

“Diderot was an idiot. He had the political inﬂuence of my poodles phlegm.”

 

Q:‘ Dear Question Marquis: I haven ’t been feeling myself lately. I lash out at the people I care about, my cooking 1
skills are slipping, and I ’m often visited by the ghosts of vegetables I ’ve eaten. I worry I might be losing my mind.
— Nick in Houston . _ it

A: It is a shame that losing one’s mind must inspire fear. It is really not so bad. I myself lost my mind several decades
ago. I highly recommend it, in fact. The day you want to lose it, just put it under your pillow before you go to sleep, and
that night, the Mind Fairy will come along and take it, leaving behind anywhere from 50 to 3,000 francs, depending on
the quality of the gray matter. I got over 1,800 for mine. Yours, being an American mind, will naturally not command
such a high price. But still, something is better than nothing.

1’

‘Price subject to change. See web site for current pricing. Internet access not included. @2001 Questia

w w w. q u e s t i a . c o m -“?°‘5**..“Q.‘“ _ Better Papers. Faster.“

I .e. ..«. . .. -.n.\ A». k . -..»,.-»~ .... ..»...r............. -.»-......;.- ........_.,,,,__-‘_‘_,,,,...,¢.-i ._.-._.........;.m....-...i...~. ..«.........u.....u-.-».... .4-.......4.v..u. ... .. 3. .~...mv~.-.. .. L ..-.. at-.. .,-. . . ...  .i... .i .. ........ . ..-... ..» . ... i. .....  —v« ....v .-.-_,....--.......

 

