'‘-*-§.,_. .3..-

Arch I
£378 . 755
ta 552.

v. pa”-
wo. I
c . 9..

0112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlﬁ

  

_ ‘,;iQ!_\{iv’~j§8$§. ilx:’Yf.-'tt.5Rf~: s,IraR,e 
? .§:r:”é{. :v.’.3?¢ «K  U~N£,ﬁSn.,j

«  

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 103, NO. 18

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Pledge grades
concern SAC

In the Fall Term 1998, the Student Affairs Com-
mittee recommended - and the faculty approved -
the eight-week fraternity/sorority pledgeship pro-
gram that is presently in operation. The Student
Affairs Committee, led by Professor Jeffrey Barnett,
conducted an on- going evaluation of the pledgeship
program and will make recommendations to the fac-
ulty following the completion of the 2001 program.
Here are some preliminary observations based on
the first two years, with an emphasis on the three
components of the pledgeship program: Honor, Aca-
demic Performance and Personal Dignity.

Honor

In 1999, during the first year of the 8-week pledge
program, the Executive Committee reviewed a case
involving fraternity pledges on a scavenger hunt
trip. Based on that case, the EC told all fraternities

that individuals who participate in scavenger hunts

or require pledges to do so may be subject to an
honor violation. 5

Academic Performance

The University Registrar found that Greek male

' pledges’ GPAs have dropped the past two years

during their pledgeship period. Winter 1999 grades
fell by 0.123 from Fall 1998. Winter 2000 grades
dropped 0.232 from the Fall 1999 period for fresh-
man. Meanwhile, freshman independents and fe-
male pledges saw their grades remain relatively
steady between the two semesters. ‘

Personal Dignity

In 1997, the faculty approved a new “University
Policy on Hazing” that held individuals, in addition
to the chapter houses, accountable for hazing with
suspension the minimum standard. In Spring 1998,
President Elrod suspended the Kappa Alpha fra-
temity for one year and suspended ten members of
KA for hazing. In 1999, a member of Phi Kappa
Sigma was suspended for one term for hazing by
the SAC Hearing Board. No charges of hazing were
filed in 2000. Last year, the lnterfratemity Council
found Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity in violation of
pledge program standards by rnsking excessive time
demands and cut PiKA’ a 2001 pledge program from
eight weeks to one week.

Two—Year Assessment

Overall, we believe that the fraternity 8-week
pledge program is an improvement over the previ-
ous programs, including the 12-week program in
1998. There is increased awareness of pledge poli-
cies and consequences among fraternity members
and pledges. Nevertheless, there remain fundamen-
tal and serious ﬂaws in the fraternity pledgeship
programs as conducted by most of the fraternities.

The signiﬁcant decline in the academic perfor-
mance of freshman fraternity pledges is unaccept-
able. In our opinion, the declining grades are result
of several factors, especially excessive time de-
mands placed on the pledges. At the end of the 8-
week period, many freshman pledges are tired and
wom—down by time-consuming activities that have
little positive beneﬁts.

Another issue: A few fraternities encourage fresh-
men who have not achieved the minimum 2.0 GPA to
“voluntarily” participate in pledgeship. The Interfra-
ternity Council is presently investigating this issue.
A clear message will be sent that such a practice is
unacceptable and will result in serious penalties.

During the 2001 pledgeship period, SAC will con-
tinue its review of the 8-week pledge program. We
expect far less time demands on the pledges, and an
increased emphasis on academic performance. We
hope that genuine and meaningful community ser-
vice projects will be implemented. Following the 2001
pledge program, SAC will begin its formal assess-
ment in anticipation of a report to the faculty next fall
on the future of the fraternity pledgeship program.
Issues that will be considered include: increased
minimal GPA standards to pledge, academic perfor-
mance, length of the pledgeship period, promotion
of community service programs, the role of alcohol,
and the responsibility of pledges. _

A few observations about sorority pledgeship.
During the first two years of the 8-week program,
there have been no signiﬁcant violations by any
sorority. Our impression is that the sorority
pledgeship programs are reasonable and moder-
ate. Nevertheless, we are concerned about the so-

rority system’s role in the overall alcohol culture at I

Washington and Lee. Sorority members have come
to rely on the fraternities to supply alcohol and the
present BYOB policy is one-sided. The Alcohol
Task Force will address this issue.

— Courtesy of Student Aﬂair Committee letter,
edited for space

STAFF WRITER

Spears to Michael Jackson.

Sync’s proceeds.

ing,” said the
the judges.

this year,” Cox said.

said.

Fraternity and sorority pledges
hit the stage for Washington and
Lee’s 15th annual Lip Sync Friday
night. Students performed 33 acts,
lip-syncing to songs from Britney

All proceeds benefited Stu-
dents Against Rockbridge Area
Hunger, an organization that do-
nates to the Rockbridge Area Re-
lief Association, Community Share
in Buena Vista, and the Natural
Bridge/Glasgow Food Pantry. The
National Multiple Sclerosis Soci-
ety, the original philanthropy of
SARAH receives 10 percent of Lip

Last year, Lip Sync raised enough
money to purchase over 800 pounds
of food for Rockbridge County.

Entries are judged by “seven
things, including the lip sync, cho-
reography, costumes, and the tim-
chemistry
department’s Elizabeth Cox, one of

“There were a lot of good acts

“It’s fun to watch your friends go
up there and dance around,” said

“Lip Sync is a great chance to
watch people act silly,” Combrooks

   
 

ily Barnes and Mary Guy/Executive and Photo Editors

 

_ Oto. y
Now IF ONLY THEY COULD SING. (Above) Kappa Delta won first place, $100, and a pair of Fancy Dress tickets with its

 

freshman Chad Meredith. , _ _ _ _ _
SeniorManhaC0mbmOkS echoed performance of the Jackson Five hit “I Want You Back.” (Below left) “ChrIst1na Aguilera” made an appearance In
that sentiment. Kappa Alpha Theta’s pop mix, which won third place and a Fancy Dress ticket. (Bottom center) Sigma Alpha Epsilon

pledges demonstrate “interpretive dance” to the tune of “That’s Amore.” (Bottom right) Phi Kappa Psi’s Lip Sync
act was the remake of the Saturday Night Live skit “Chippendale Tryouts.” Kappa Delta, not pictured, took second
for its version of “Pour Some Sugar On Me,” winning $50 and a Fancy Dress ticket.

Humor and facts mix in
Lee Chapelpresentation
on alcohol and sex

By Matt McDermott

‘ NEWS EDITOR

Sex and alcohol are a dan-
gerous cocktail, said Linda
Hancock, “seeker of truth” and
nurse from Virginia Common-
wealth University.

“Love ‘n’ Liquor,”
Hancock’s presentation, was
delivered last Thursday night
to a large number of students
and faculty.

“She spoke about contra-
ception, the value of absti-
nence, STDs, beer goggles, and
clouded judgment,” said Uni-

versity Health Educator Jan.

Kaufman.
“And she did it in only an

hour,” Kaufman added.

Hancock met with cam-
pus health officials before-
hand to pick up data on

W&L’s alcohol use.

“She incorporated it into her
presentation,” Kaufman said.

Hancock’s program also in-
cluded information on
a1cohol’s detrimental effects
on sex drive, conditions of
consent, and applicable rape
laws;

One of the most popular
segments ’ of her presentation
was the “Bachelor Dating
Game,” where the fictitious
sexual histories, and attendant
STD risk, of three male stu-
dents were compared.

“I enjoyed the presenta-
tion,” Director of Athletics
Michael Walsh said. “I thought
the subject matter was very
pertinent to our campus and
some of the issues we are deal-
ing with campus-wide.”

SEE ‘LOVE,’ PAGE 2

(J11: ‘ﬂing-tunt iﬁhi

January 29, 2001

 

    
 
  

Fury  _ FL: :
America’s newes otball
league is fantasti f you

like cheerleai s

   

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2001

Students shake booty to combat hunger

By Jonathan Wortham

 

PAGE 2

 ' Ellie Tiling-tum iﬂlit

 

JANUARY 29, 2001

Hypnotist mesmerizes W&L students ~

Katie Howell

STA FF WRITER

The Student Activities Board hosted hypno-
tist Tom DeLuca Thursday, Jan. 25, in Doremus
gymnasium. DeLuca hypnotized over 20 Wash-
ington and Lee students and community members,
coaxing them to participate in actions like thinking
their shoes were on the wrong feet, not being able
to say their own names and thinking they were on
stage in their underwear.

DeLuca, who has performed on all major net-
works and appeared in People Magazine, Rolling
Stone and the Wall Street Journal, learned his trade
while working for a psychologist. The psycholo-
gist taught DeLuca to hypnotize people to con-
vince them to quit smoking. Since then, DeLuca
has taken his act across the country. He has per-
formed at W&L several times before.

“It’s fun to perform here [at W&L] because it’s
good when the students really get into it,” DeLuca
said. “There are some really smart students here,
and they are more creative, which makes the show
more interesting.”

DeLuca started his show with two tricks and
then moved into the actual hypnotizing. He called
on volunteers from the audience to join him on stage.
After more than ﬁve minutes of talking and coaxing
them, the group seemed to be asleep on stage.

“It was a really drearn—like situation,” said fresh-

KING or THE APES. A W&L student, under the inﬂuence of DeLuca, acts like Tarzan.

man Erin Johnson, who was hypnotized. “When I
was up there it didn’t seem real, more like a dream,
and when I woke up, I felt like I had taken a long
nap.”

DeLuca then convinced his subjects to partake
in dozens of activities, sometimes involving the
whole group and other times involving only a few
individual students.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

“I try to bring up contemporary issues in my
show to see how the students react in different
ways,” DeLuca said. “I like to use both large and
small groups [in my scenes].”

“Tom DeLuca has a great show,” said Lauren
Ivanick, an SAB officer. “People really enjoy it, and
he is always one of our biggest acts. People always
come out.”

Live Drive

(10 pm to at least 2 am)

Will drive reasonable distances on Fridays
and Saturdays

call 460-3054 or 460-3055

Safe Rides

(10 pm to approximately 3 am
on Fridays and Saturdays)

Vans are driven by paid coaches around
Lexington only — Davidson Park, Red Square,
Campus, East Lex (Windfall, Pole House area),

and Lenfest road.

Safe Rides will not drive people to their homes
in the country. If you need to get somewhere on
their route, this is fine — it’s like a bus system.

Thisservioewillcontinuetotheendoftheschoolyear.

Y.

information courtesy of Beth Meyers P

    
  

I E-‘mail General Ntges
toip @wlu.edu Ill»

Maury River Alliance calls

for new volunteers

The MRA will present the results of sam-
pling on the Maury River and on Woods
Creek/Sarahs Run in the City of Lexington.
Citizen monitors have been testing & col-
lecting water at 18 sites since late August
and have some initial trends to share with
our volunteers and the general public. MRA
will also demonstrate the need for additional
monitoring locations throughout the county.

MRA seeks community input and needs
volunteer water monitors. Local and state
government officials will also attend to speak

   

about the need for volunteer monitoring and
how the results are used by state agencies.
Question and answer period will follow.
Refreshments provided. For more informa-
tion, contact Tom Kastner 261- 1221
(cedarhi11@rockbridge.net).

Heather Ross Miller to give

lecture and reading
Heather Ross Miller, the Thomas H.
Broadus Jr. Professor of English at Washing-
ton and Lee University, will present an inau-
gural lecture on Tuesday, Jan. 30 at 7 p.m. in
Leybum Librar"y'sNorthen Auditorium. In-
augural lectures are presented by recently
endowed professors at the University.
Miller's lecture is titled "The Writer and
the Place," and she will read excerpts from her
most recent work, both ﬁction and memoir.
Miller is the author of Crus0e’s Island: A Story
ofa Writerand a Place (Coastal Carolina Press).

 

‘LOVE

Walsh administers the
David Thompson Endow-
ment fund, which sponsored

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

SPEAKER. Linda.Hancock
. talks in Lee Chapel.

FROM PAGE 1
the event. Dean of Students
David Howison, Head La-
crosse Coach Jim Stagnitta,
Head Athletic Trainer Tom
Jones, and University Phy-
sician Jane Horton are also
on the committee.

The David Thompson En-
dowment Fund supports stu-
dent health education pro-
grams, particularly those that
address student athlete issues.

It memorializes David Th-
ompson, a ‘‘well-respected
student and a ﬁne lacrosse
player,” said Walsh. Thomp-
son was killed his senior year

in a Jan. 1996 automobile ac-’ ’ "

cident.

{There's never been a better time to buildyour career with us}

This presents new and exciting challenges for
our employees, with ever expanding career
options. There has never been a better time
to be part of our dynamic global force as we

bring innovations to improve the way the
world works and lives.

For those who want to create the future.
now is the time to be at Accenture.

\

We've done more than just change
our name. At Accenture we're building a
completely new network of businesses that
will influence the shape of the new economy.

Check out our Webcast - premiering on Thursday, February 1 (1 :00 p.m. EST, 12:00 pm. CST, 11:00 a.m. MST, 10:00 a.m. PST) - for information on our
new name and new opportunities. it's an interactive experience and career opportunity you won't want to miss. *

Register for the Webcast at: careers.accenture.comIwebcasts

0 Consulting 0 Technology 0 Outsourcing 0 Alliances 0 Venture Capital   ‘

Accenture was formerly known as Andersen Consulting 5 5 it

 

 

 

JANUARY 29, 2001

OPINION

Once the oldest child, always

The moral of this story: to all of you out there who have
an older brother or sister, you owe them props. Big time.

You will never know how much they paved that paren-
tal road for you. They broke your parents in, and as a
result, you end up with the freedom and the privileges
that they only dreamed of having.

Trust me, I know this. I have been victimized by oldest-
child-syndrome many a time, but I figured going to col-
lege meant that I hit the turning point. I thought that I had
beaten it, that I had survived through my years of being
“parented” as only an oldest child can be. Then I went
home for

Christmas. i . .

Okay, for F9rec11trveEd1tor
those of you . ,
who know me’ Fmily Barnes 01
you know that

the bane of my existence right now is the fact that I have
no car. I live on Ross Road, about two miles outside of
Lexington. It takes me half an hour to walk to town. I
depend on my fabulously-accomodating roommates for
rides. Two weeks ago, I was too sick to walk and the rest
of my roommates had already left for the day, sol called a
cab and paid $5 for a ride to the Hill. (But Emily, youtrnay
ask, why would you choose to live so far away from town
with no car? Long story. Let’s just say I didn’t incorporate
this whole newspaper-editor-deal into my original senior
year plan. Needless to say, I spend more hours on campus
than one could possibly imagine, but I digress. . . )

Back to the trip home. Okay, I stayed in Washington,
D.C. all summer andl didn’t go home for Thanksgiving break,
so it had been a long while since I’d been back to good old
Bel Air, Maryland. I rolled into the driveway for the ﬁrst time
in six months (chauffeured by my parents, of course) and
happened to notice a blue Chevrolet Cavalier convertible in
the driveway.

“Oh, whose car is that?” I ask.

“It’s uh. . . it’s Hillary’s,” they answer hesitantly ——
knowing the reaction.

Yes, my parents bought my younger sister a car. In
July. Five months and nobody told me about it.

My sister, Hillary, is 18 years old. She goes to the same
high school where my mom works everyday during nor-
mal school hours. The car sat in the driveway the entire
first week that I was home for break. She’ll probably go to
a college next year that doesn’t allow freshmen to have
cars. What the hell is going on?

How is it that my younger sister gets the car while I
spend half of my time scheduling my life around getting
rides back and forth everyday? Plus, it is most likely that I
will need a car to get to the job I will hopefully have at
some point in the near future. But all of this apparently
doesn’t compete withmy sister’s needto ﬁt.in.with the

 

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
Matt McDermott
Max Smith
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
W&Lif€ Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
5110715 E45707 Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
‘ C017)’ 5111707 Heather McDonald
Contributing Editor Michael C1-ittenden
Photo Editor Mary Guy
Staff Photographer Eric Wechtler

News Editors

Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli
Business Manager Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

  

 

 

 

 

A Land Rover. . wrshl thinking.

cool high school crowd. Right. That’s fair.

I was pretty upset about this twisted scenario for my
entire stay at home. I immediately called up all of my high
school friends who drove me around for two years, and
they immediately felt sorry for me, more so than ususal -
as did my college friends. Now I had truly achieved that
higher level of pathetic. We had all been fooled by my
parents. We were all under the assumption that I was
poor, and that I would have to start seriously sacriﬁcing
my Palms money to the “wishful thinking” car fund.

So why is it that my sister gets away with not ever
having to feel this anxiety? Why does she have what I
consider at my wise old age of 22 to be the ultimate luxury
of wheels? I do know one thing. . . it ’s not fair!!! I

But, then I realized, it’s deﬁnitely not fair, but I can’t do
a damn thing about it. I’m the oldest child, therefore I get
screwed. That’s just the way it is. I endured those years
of car—less-ness so that, by the time my younger sister
got to driving age, my parents didn’t want to _deal with the
whole sad-because—no-car—guilt-trip routine. I wore them
out, and my sister reaps the beneﬁts.

It sucks, and I just have to deal. That’s it.

So, oldest children out there, maybe your story isn’t
as miserable as this, but you know what I’m saying. And

Contemporary Leaders
modernize their crusade

In the prelude to Black History Month, it seems appro-
priate to take a look at the African Americans who helped
shape America. When one thinks of African American I-lis-
tory, one cannot help but to think of Dr. Martin Luther
King. It is through his policy of passive resistance that his
followers were able to lead the Civil Rights movement from
its infancy to its successes. Dr. King’s policy of passive
resistance effectively secured many of the rights that were
guaranteed to black Americans

the oldest child

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Edior

we probably will never get a thar1k—you from our seem-
ingly over—1oved younger siblings, but we know in our
hearts that we totally deserve one, and without us, they
would be nothing.

So, little sis, even though you tell our parents you’ll be
home “later” on a Friday night when I had to be home at
11:00 at your age, I wouldn’t trade my oldest-sisterhood
for anything. (Notice that I’m trying hard to not be entirely
bitter throughout this article.)

As I struggled through our then—rookie parents’ attempt
to do their job, I realized that this whole experience" is just
one of those “tough love” things, and that I would never
take for granted my freedom once I ﬁnally had it. And, by
this most recent experience, I still see my own advantage in
the long run: I realize that the car keys aren’t always
handed to you. Sometimes you have to work for some-
thing to get it, and as a result you appreciate the gain. I
think only the oldest child truly understands this.

So, to anyone that’s ever given me a ride home, you rock,
and I urge you to contact my mom to request the dollar
amount in gas money you feel you’re owed for providing
taxi services. Seriously. I’ll give you her email address.

Just because I’ve “risen above”«the situation doesn’t
mean I’m going to let my family forget about it. Ever.

The legacy of Dr. King survives

ment did much to improve the circumstance of minorities
in America, much more needs to be done before the ideal
of equal rights for all can be achieved. Contrary to what
Mr. Kirwan says, contemporary leaders such as Rev. Jesse
Jackson do no more to campaign for their causes than do
many of the nation’s lobbyists, business leaders, and even
church leaders. By claiming that the NAACP and the PUSH
coalition are simply “lapdogs for the Democratic Party,”
Mr. Kirwan has thoroughly missed the point of what these
groups are trying to accomplish. He has pointed out noth-
ing more than the fact that many African Americans tend
to vote democratic. The fact is that many of the goals of
the NAACP are concurrent with the Democratic Party’s

platform. For example, the Republican

through the Constitution.
One prime example of the effec-
tiveness of Dr. King’s methods lies

 party supports private school vouch-

ers, while the Democratic Party supports
using tax money to improve our inner

in Rosa Parks’s refusal to give up
her seat in the front of the bus, thus touching off the
Montgomery (not Birmingham, as suggested by Mr.
Kirwan) bus boycotts. Being very astute to the laws of
supply and demand, the bus company realized that a large
portion of the population walking to work did not help
them make a proﬁt. Thus, they ﬁnally gave blacks the
right to ride anywhere on the buses.

King’s leadership through organization of the South-
ern Christian Leadership conference and his organization
of the 1963 Civil Rights March on Washington generated
sympathy from all Americans, thus pushing the Civil
Rights movement into high gear. His nonviolent opposi-
tion to the status quo quickly forced lawmakers and citi-
zens alike to recognize Americas minorities. No longer
were these people a group of disjointed individuals. They
were now a solid unit, non-violently ﬁghting in the spirit of
the American Way. Dr. King was committed to attaining
the ideals upon which our great country was founded. Tragi-
cally, Dr. King was assassinated in Memphis, TN after trav-
elling there to support a strike by sanitation workers.

Although Dr. King’s work during the Civil Rights Move-

 

 

city schools (where a considerable per-
centage of the nation’s African American population re-
sides). Is it wrong for them to vote for whom they think
will make their lives better?

Mr. Kirwan’s article simply underscores the fact that
we all need to work to understand those of different cul-
tures so that we can realize our forefathers’ dream of a
“United States of America.”

uote of the week:

(C

All of these people look way
too sober to be doing this.

— Anonymous senior
watching Lip Sync

77

  

  
  

V __ y Cisti Metzer

 

“That the KD’s got ﬁrst and
second.”
- Joy Whitehead ’04

“It ended.”
—Caleb Dulis ‘04

“The Chi O’s were the best.”
— Laura Drewicz ’04

5 “Seeing my brothers make
Annual subsription rate: $30 asses of themselves”
— Josh Comthwaite ’04

 

 

PAGE 4

  8 IE: {King-tum iﬂlii

JANUARY 29, 2001

 

Gallery masked by new exhibit

By Emily Barnes

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The spirits of African Headdresses: Masks, Crests, and
Helmets have taken over duPont.

More than 200 African masks currently on display in
the duPont Gallery are only a fraction of Tom McNemar’s
collection of African artifacts, which exceeds 2000 pieces.

McNemar began collecting African art in 1960, after mu-
seum exhibits and African art collectors sparked his interest.

“I was living in London in the 50s and I saw the art
exhibits at the British museum,” McNemar said. “I met col-
lectors of African art in London. . . in 1959-60, I went to
Africa, just on a trip. In Africa, I met a group of French
people who" were supplying African art to the various Eu-
ropean museums. . . and I decided to stay there for a while
and see if I could collect some pieces. That stay extended
to about 15 years.”

During the stay, McNemar aquired the bulk of his per-
sonal collection. His ﬁrst contribution to a major museum
was to the then-new Museum of African Art in Washing-
ton, D.C., in 1963. He said his desire to exhibit the art was a
product of the collecting experience.

“In interesting myself with the art and meeting collec-
tors, I found that I could add things to existing collections,
and I also found that I could create whole collections, which
I did and parenthetically which I’m still doing,” he said.
McNemar said that the appeal of African art, especially

   
   

Hm,-0

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

Reviews you can use:     

Continental cuisine is order of the day

that of the human ﬁgure and face, is in the way the artist
creatively interprets a form that is universally understood.
The viewer is given the chance to see the form in a new
way, and, as McNemar said about his own viewing of the
art, to see itin a new way every time.

“It’s continually evolving. It seems that, not only do
I see it differently, but I keep seeing new things. There’s
a kind of universality that runs through all primitive art,
and, once I began to see this universality, it became more
and more fascinating,” he said. “When you start looking
at it, then you realize that you’re dealing with something
that’s absolutely endless in the artist’s ability to create.”

The masks on display in duPont show many artistic
interpretations of the face. McNemar said that, in addition
to their artistic merits, the masks have a history to them
because they were originally worn by participants of spiri-
tual rituals. He said that the spirituality of the ritual is main-
tainedin the mask itself. He said that there is universal
understanding of the mask as something magical.

“In any culture, the appeal of the mask is that, as soon
as you put on the mask, you lose your own identity or
your identity is totally camoﬂaged from the world,” he
said. “Then you begin to get into another character, and
with these African masks, you get into not just another
character, but another being.”

The artist used the colors red, white, and blue to at-
tract the spirit into the mask. To make the mask beautiful,
the artist added a variety of materials such as shells and
feathers to a wood, clay, hammered iron, cast bronze, or
aluminum base. The result is what McNemar said is the
determining factor to his buying the mask: the combina-
tion of beauty and spirituality.

Studio Art Professor Larry Stene said that the exhibit
is effective in both its size and subject.

“It overloads the senses,” Stene said.

Senior Katy Gieselman said she enjoyed painting the
masks for a class.

“It’s fun to paint them,” Gieselman said. “They are
different from any subject we’ve ever ha .”

A reception will be held Feb. 2 at 5 :30 p.m. The exhibit
will be on display until Feb. 28.

Elephant Man to

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee students will perform Bernard
Pomerance’s play The Elephant Man beginning Feb 9.

The play stars junior Micah Tolman as John Merrick,
a crippled and deformed man living in late Victorian En-
gland. He was called “The Elephant Man” because one
of his arms was overgrown and resembled an elephant’s
trunk . Tolman said portraying Merrick’s deformities is
the most difficult part of the role.

“It’s almost like ﬁghting against yourself,” Tolman said.

Senior Francis McWilliarns plays Dr. Frederick Treves,

Alix Warren C02) is startled by elephant man Micahffoan ( 02) mime Elephant Man.

open in February 9»,

the surgeon who discovers Merrick perfomiing in a freak
show. Treves takes Merrick to live at his hospital and
introduces Merrick to Mrs. Kendall. played by junior 
Alix Warren, and other members of London society. Pro— ’
fessor Joseph Martinez, the play’s director, said he chose , 1‘
the play because it portrays how people judge others
from their appearance.

“[The play‘s_] perfect because it’s about someone
who’s disgusting on the outside, but has the soul of a
poet,” Martinez said.

Performance dates are Feb. I0, 12, and 13 at 8 p.m.
and Feb 1 I at 2 p.m. in the Johnson Theater of the Lenfest
Center.



 

Man of the people reviews food with an

 


~§T§:ZiAK$

eye toward the average diner

H

for savvy, sophisticated epicure

bite, I noted how the sandwich ap-

By Matthew McDerrnott

NEWS EDITOR

I spent a pleasant evening dining
at City Subs & Steaks, a downtown
Lexington restaurant on Main Street
that rubs shoulders with the military
recruiting office under the disapprov-
ing glare of the new courthouse.

The restaurant specializes in food
anglais — straightforward submarine
and steak sandwiches that hint at the
South Jersey heritage of the head chef.

Tables are covered with stain—proof
sheets of red-checked plastic, which
casually complement the borders of the
scattered Budweiser posters. Meals
are taken in a dramatically rectangular
room that channels the ambiance and
emphasizes the linear progress of drink,
sandwich, and ice cream that a true City
meal must follow.

Though Budweiser was the
boisson de choix for my fellow pa-
trons, I elected a glass of Pepsi in-
stead (City is a Pepsi shop). Due to
its availability on campus, I normally
avoid taking table-coke with my meal;
the inviting aroma of my steak, how-
ever, demanded nothing else.

I ordered a “Mexican” steak with
extra habanero peppers. Some fellow
epicureans have been so unkind as
to intimate that those readers not hail-

sandwich is

mg from Texas or South Louisiana
should stick to jalapenos, if they can
stomach peppers at all.
Theentreewas servedina‘ at,”a
plastic mesh contrivance that holds the
steak sandwich without allowing proud
gravitytodistortits delicately rnoldedpio-
portions. As the
steak is cooked on
a grill-top, the

served au jus.

    

H

By Mike George

STA FF WRITER

City Subs & Steaks may be one of the
few undiscovered highlights in the city of
Lexington Providing an urban atmosphere
of good food and friendly people, City

‘ ' Steaks isadeﬁnite
destination for a
gathering of
friends. City Steaks
is public enough

'Ihoseof you look- for a ﬁrst date, but
ing for a course quiet enough tobe
maigie should be  if you go
warned that low— attheright time.
fat food is not a It’s the type of
house specialty. place that’s per-
Though the feet for groups.
sous chef rnis- Tucked away
charged me at along Main Street,
ﬁrst, I found the City Steaks is
serviceamiable. within walking
A last word: distance of carn-

The ice cream (served a la carte, and
in one size) is fantastically priced. Go
there for the ice cream, if for no other
reason. Five scoops for under $2 —
andthiswasbefoielrevealedthatlwasa
prariiergunrnetrevieweroftheGreataIex-
ington Area.

My sandwich, attendant chips,
large drink, and ice cream cost under

$10.

Mm‘

 
l
I

pus. It tries to emphasize substance over
ﬂash. An old TV was playing one of my
favorite episodes of Star Trek, and I kept
looking back to watch as I reﬂected on
the simplicity of my surroundings.

I ordered a cheesesteak, standard
fare for this restaurant. I ‘ordered my
sandwich with mushrooms, but a wide
variety of toppings can be added at
your discretion. When I took my ﬁrst

WANTED:

Summer Scholars
Counselors

June 27 - July 28, 2001

Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to experience
working with high school students while staying at W&L for the month of
July? The Washington and Lee Summer Scholars Porgram is an exciting

four week academic program for approximately 150 rising high school
seniors. We are looking for responsible students to help guide
participants and to plan extracurricular activites such as talent shows,
lip syncs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen and more.

peared to have a particular melding
of ﬂavors. A mixture of cheese and
mayonnaise tastes especially amaz-
ing. The steak itself has a particular
rich ﬂavor due to its preparation on
an open griddle. Served alongside are
standard potato chips, which were a
bit on the salty side, but a nice ac-
companiment to the steak.

Along with my meal, I picked up
an order of cheese fries. Accordion
fries come buried under a rich supply
of ﬂavorful nacho cheese. The com-
bination made for a fantastic addition.
For dessert, I had a heaping scoop of
butter pecan ice cream. It was amaz-
ing, one of the best deals for ice cream
‘..have seen in years. My bill for a
sandwich, unlimited refills of Pepsi, a
side of cheese fries, and a bowl of ice
cream was under $10.

I was impressed by the amount of
beer paraphernalia that filled the room.
The owners definitely know their cus-
tomer base. City Steaks advertises
pitchers of Bud Light for $2.50 on
Thursday nights, and drafts for $0.50.

Overall, I had a wonderful time and
a wonderful meal. I recommend City
Subs & Steaks for anyone who just
wants to have a good meal in a casual
place. Go with your friends some time,
it’s worth it.

Elephant  
    M an



    E*“‘5{i‘l is

I  .4

at UM :-—;‘i:;\.

F  DIRECTED BY
J.D..   T

. .3
pl
1
V
I
l
i
?
‘I’

12 82: 13, 2001- eP.M. 
; FEB. 11; :e2P-M.  
I JOHNSON THEATRE-LEN}_FE7s—-ii  , 

Tickets and Information '4 5l4(li/4603-8000

g   y 0 FEB. 9, 10,
For further information and to obtain applications, please contact -_’  ' t « I 9 - ‘ E
Jennifer Lotts, Summer Scholars, Hill House at 463-8722. ‘ E ‘ ' '

The deadline for turning in applications is February 27, 2001.

 

y JANUARY 29, 2001

Siiﬁﬁrs  

PAGE 5

Women drop pair

of ODAC games at
home, rebound on

Saturday outside

I of conference play

By Dave Crowell

,- SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team started the
week slowly, losing a pair of close

. gzlnes in Old Dominion Athletic

Conference play, before snapping a
six-game losing streak with a non-
conference victory over Villa Julie
oil Saturday afternoon.

On Tuesday, the Generals were
never able to recover from an early
13-point deﬁcit, as Guilford defeated

. W&L 70-54 in conference play.

Gi1ilford’s lead stood at 34-27 at half-

. time, and the Generals never came

closer than fivelpoints during the

second half.

{Junior Jessica Mentz led the team
in scoring with 22 points while shoot-

Men’s,women’s swim teams have

By Geoff White

ing 7—of-15 from the ﬁeld. Junior cen-
ter Megan Babst accumulated her
10th double-double of the season,
scoring 21 points and collecting 14
rebounds.

The key for Guilford was the forc-
ing of 26 W&L turnovers, which
helped ensure the victory.

The Generals returned to action on
Friday with an up-and—down loss to
Bridgewater, 63-52.

W&L jumped out to an early 20-9
lead over the first 11:35 of the game.
During the final 10 minutes of the half,
however, Bridgewater dominated the
court, ending with an 18-2 run and a
27-22 halftime lead.

The Generals managed to close
the gap to three points, but clutch
shots by Bridgewater, including three
treys, ended any remaining W&L
hopes.

Mentz led the team with 19 points
while also garnering eight boards.
Babst earned yet another double-
double with 14 points and 12 re-
bounds, and junior guard Carter
Thomas tied a school record with
10 assists.

“We have spurts of intensity,”
coach Janet Hollack said about her

Generals bounce back against Villa J

team’s consistency. “We must play for
40 minutes in order to win ballgames.”

The Generals returned to action on
Saturday with plenty of intensity,
mauling non-conference opponent
Villa Julie 71-39 and improving their
record to 6-1 1.

W&L used an aggressive defense
and a barrage of transition baskets in
order to build an insurmountable 36-
15 halftime lead. The Generals held
Villa Julie to 30 percent shooting from
the ﬁeld and forced 20 turnovers on
the day.

Mentz led the team with 29 points,
including 13-of- 16 shooting from the
free throw line, and added 11 re-
bounds to pace the Generals.

“We realize the importance of free
throws and have been very success-
ful at the line,’’ Hollack said.

The Generals continued their ha-
rassing defense in the second half to
solidify a 32-point victory, perhaps
gaininglmomentum for the end of the
season.

“This win is a big step for us after
the skid,” Hollack said.

The Generals return to ODAC play
with a Wednesday night game at
Guilford.

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s swimming team im-
proved to 8-2 while the women won two out of three to
move their record up to 5-7 over the weekend.

The women’s squad went into action Friday, beating

    

’ Hettermar1n’s layup with 16 seconds remaining. The bas-
I ket put W&L up 46-45, and senior Will Ballard’s free throw
‘ with two seconds left sealed the victory.

J run to take a 15-11 lead. The Maroons would not trail the

 P lena (133 pounds) and freshman
5’ Steve Saks (157) also recorded victo-

Randolph-Macon 1 14-87. Sophomore Blair Huffman con-
tinued to lead her team with wins in the 200-yard indi-
vidual medley, 100—yard butterﬂy, and the 100-yard breast-
stroke. Sophomore Kelli Austin also helped the team with
wins in the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events.

Classmate Michelle Moore won the 50-yard freestyle
event with a time of 25.57 seconds. Both teams were on
the road for two meets in one day on Saturday. First, both
teams handily defeated Marymount in Arlington. The men

- won 141-34, and the women took a 106-58 decision.

Freshman Jonathan James led the men’s squad with

ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes in the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events,

W&L tops Emory and He

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR . I I  

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor‘
BREATH or FREsHA.I.R.. Sophomore Blair Huffman...
competes in a breaststroke event in W&L’s
114-87 win over Randolph-Macon on Friday.

‘ The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team gar-
nered its third win of the season against Emory and
Henry on Wednesday before falling to Roanoke on
Saturday night.

‘ The Generals (3-15, 3-10 Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference) edged the Wasps on sophomore Scott

ll Although W&L shot 32 percent from the ﬁeld for the
contest, the Generals accounted for the poor percentage
by sinking 16 of their 24 free throw attempts. Senior Chad
Braley scored a game—high 13 points for W&L, Ballard
ﬁpished with 1 1 and Hettermann tallied eight for the game.

Despite snapping a four-game losing streak against
the Wasps, the Generals could not retain their momentum
against Roanoke, dropping a 75-61 decision at the home

nry, falls on road to Roanoke

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

ulie

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
LONG JUMPER. Freshman Helen Hughes fires
up a shot against Villa Julie on Saturday.

successful week

and his time of 1:49.84 in the 200 was a meet record. Class-
mate Colin Mitchell took ﬁrst place in the 100-yard back-
stroke with a meet-record time of 57.00 seconds.

Austin won the l00ya1d freestyle, and freshman Jackie Green
won the 500-yard freestyle to help the women win the meet.

Both teams then traveled to Fredericksburg for a meet
against Mary Washington College. The men won by a
score of 110.5 to 94.5, but the women fell 105-75.

Integral to the men’s win were seniors Mike Miraglia and
Colin Hayes. Hayes set a meet record with a tie in the 100-
yard butterﬂy at a time of 52.37 seconds. Miraglia set a meet
record with a time of 1 201.93 in the 100-yard breaststroke.

Mitchell also set a meet record with a time of 55.94 in
the 100-yard backstroke. .

Austin and Huffman once again led their squads with
wins in the 100 and 500-yard freestyle, respectively.

The women will face Radford and Hollins in Radford
on Thursday, while the men will next compete in the Grove
City Invitational in Pennsylvania on Thursday, Feb. 15.

of the Maroons.
X W&L stormed out to a 10-2 lead just over three min-
utes into the contest, but Roanoke answered with a 13-1

contest again.
X Roanoke converted 26 of their 46 ﬁeld goal opportuni-

Road less than fiendly to Genrals

Grapplers travel
north for Ursinus
Quadrangular, fall
in two matches

  

By Jeremy Franklin

V SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wres-
tling team traveled to Collegeville,
P ., on Saturday for the Ursinus
Qiiadrangular.

The Generals had little luck on the
road, falling to Ursinus 32-9 and West-
em Maryland 3449 in Centennial Con-
fetence action.

Junior Ezra Morse improved to 14-
1 on the year in the meet, recording a
win in the 197-pound weight class
a ainst Ursinus. Sophomore John

Rm-mm Phi File Phot
CAPTURED. Freshman Steve Saks wrestles in the Jan. 20 W&L
Invitational. Saks won his match against Ursinus in the 157-
pound class on Saturday, but W&L lost the match, 32-9.

recorded a pin‘ for six of the Generals’
points against Western Maryland,
and senior John Sensing won his
match in the heavyweight class.

The Generals (3-5-1, 1-3 Centen-
nial) travel to Buena Vista for a 7:30
p.m. match against Southern Virginia
on Wednesday.

ries for W&L in the opening match.
Freshman 141-pounder Cory Little

‘W

I

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
RUNNING THE OFFENSE. Senior guard Will Ballard handles the ball just across halfcourt in the
Generals’ 47-45 win over Emory and Henry in the Warner Center on Wednesday.
ties and turned the ball over just 14 times.

Hettermann, Ballard and Braley led the Generals with
12 points apiece, and junior Bob Bustamante contributed

11 points.
The Generals meet Emory and Henry again on Wednes-
day, this time in a 7 p.m. road game.

Starting next week on
the sport pages of the

Ring-tum Phi...
W&L Spring Sports
Previews

 
 

WATERLOO HOUSES FORRENT
. 10 student apartments
available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enioy country living at its finest.
Just ten miles west of W&L

on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm

T?

.u_

ff

, .. - n - ~ » . . .
-.~.‘:.,..,..‘a‘... .. Jo .. .. . .. .2 .3‘

 

 

PAGE 6

Almost enough to
make you worry
about America’s youth

L Wm Mglmm W 
 ‘  . JANUARY 29, 200li

God bless M. Clnon

After the fanfare of W’s Administration fades and the .

public tires of the self—congratulatory, conciliatory rheto-
ric of the Republican party, people are going to wake-up
and realize that Clinton was a spectacular president.

He simultaneously helped restore the economy, sup-
port the fast-food industry, re—popularize cigars, revitalize
the Religious Right, and balance the budget. One should
not forget that he did it all with Congress and the media
fighting him at every juncture.

No other president, other than Reagan, was able to
withstand the adversity that surrounded of his adminis-
tration. Both presidents were media savvy, but Clinton
was still twice the president that Reagan ever was.

Reagan was the president responsible for the fall of the
Soviet Union, but giving him sole credit for the defeat of
Communism is equivalent to saying Geri Halliwell was the
only reason the Spice Girls were ever popular. Yes, she
was the best looking while doing the song and dance, but
without the rest of the group . . . well, just look at the
success of her solo career. V

Reagan was in the right place, at the right time, to har-
vest the fruits Truman, Eisenhower, and Kennedy had
planted. Reagan was a great man, but an average presi-
dent. Clinton was a remarkable man, and a great president.

The greatest part of the Clinton Presidency is how he
played our country with an impresario’s deft touch on a
violin. The American public fell in love with him and had
high approval ratings throughout his terms. Almost with-
out fail, he did what most of the country wanted him to do
or needed him to do, but always in such a way that contro-
versy existed either from a former sexual partner, a bitter
Republican, a shocked religious leader, or a media pundit

As much as the right—wing hated Clinton, he is largely
responsible for the rise of Jerry Falwell, Pat Robertson,
Bob Novak, and Orrin Hatch. Clinton became the focus of
the staged moral crisis that catapulted them into power. It
is incredibly easy to solve problems that do not exist.
Men like Joseph McCarthy, Kenneth Starr, and George
Wallace will always be there to attempt to pull themselves
up at the expense of others.

Clinton’s gregarious personality managed to be both
the cause and solution to nearly all of his presidency’s
problems. While his wandering hands, eyes, and libido
may have caused his problems, it is that very same per-
sona that induced a majority of women to support him
throughout his presidency. It is also that charming, en-
gaging personality that insulated him from the attacks of
his enemies — Starr never had a chance. For some reason
whiny, 50-year-olds with comb~overs don’t have the char-
ismatic appeal they once held.

Clinton was remarkable because he not only weathered

sponsored by:

w\\'\\'.\\'hile|muxe.go\'

his opponents’ attacks, but soundly defeated them.

Clinton’s approval rating hovered around 60 percent
throughout the trials and tribulations of his second term.
The Religious Right, which had clawed its way into power
through bold, deploring declarations calling for his impeach-
ment, imprisonment, and/or head on a stake, suddenly
found itself ranting and raving to an audience that was no
longer listening.

With a contrite apology, an emphatic hand gesture,
and a prosperous economy he managed to overcome quite
possibly the greatest smear campaign ever launched in
human history.

Americans love scandals, but they love success even
more. In Clinton, America found the perfect president be-
cause he provided both entertainment and prosperity.

What the media and his political opponents seem to
have forgotten, is that we don’t need the president to
instill morals in our children. We need the president to
safeguard our lives and liberties, and to help make us
prosperous.

President William Jefferson Clinton succeeded nobly.
Plus, his people stole all of the w’s from the White House
computers, which is pretty damn funny.

x

Office of Health Promotion and Substance Abusei.Prevention

Based on .W&L‘lCORE Surve ‘data ‘from 1999

 2o0o

Ltlygllulul

 

’ ‘i

Nation shares collective laugh at California 

Five years ago, California made the groundbreaking decision to deregulate its power suppliers from price controls—./
Being ever mindful of the consumer, however, the legislature decided that it wouldn’t be a good idea to deregulate the;
power distributors. While I don’t claim to be an economics whiz, even I can see that there’s a plethora of problems’;
associated with such a creative fonn of deregulation. As we’ve all learned from the Microsoft anti-trust suit, consumetisl
need to have competition in their choice of products/services, without regards to cost, convenience, and/or absurdityij
Thus, the visionaries in California decided that if the various suppliers of energy could compete to sell power to the;
various distributors, the prices would drop, as happened with long—distance phone service. The suppliers, being the‘
wily electrical entrepreneurs that they are, ﬁgured out a nifty little scheme. Since, the distributors couldn’t pass along;
any of the cost to the consumers, who actually purchase the power, and they were mandated to sell power to the‘;
consumers, the suppliers could pretty much charge whatever they wanted. 

Up until recently, this wasn’t an issue because enough power existed that the suppliers were forced into competiy
tion. But due to the rise of the Silicon Valley, revitalization of the San Fransicso Metroplex, and re-settling of Southern.
California by most of Mexico, California is just wee bit short on electrical goodness. if

Packer in trouble for packing 

Ex-tight end for the Green Bay Packers and three—time Pro Bowler Mark Chmura was in court ealier this week,
charged with one count of second—degree sexual assualt and one count of fourth—degree sexual assualt. While attentﬂl
ing his children’s babysitter’s prom party, Chmura allegedly forced sexual activity on her in a bathroom.

One is left to wonder, what the hell was he thinking? He’s a star athlete with several million dollars in the bank and
he’s hanging out at a prom party, making amorous advances at his babysitter in a bathroom? Now, he’s facing up to 30_
years in jail. It reminds one of a rather amusing football anecdote: Have you ever heard the one about the football play?
who went into prison a tight-end, but came out a wide-receiver? If not, you soon just may. 

I

West-Wing womped with wack1ness-

When W and his staff assumed control of the White House earlier this week, they were not so pleasantly supriseglp

to find out that the former employees of Clinton and Gore had been busy before they left. Those crazy office kooks had

reportedly plundered all of the w’s from the White House and the Executive Office Building computers, thus making it

all but impossible for Bush staffers to distinguish W from his father in press reports. Other hijinks include ﬁle cabinets

being glued shut and pornographic materials clogging the Executive Printing Server. The office staffers were not

completely petty — they were kind enough to help President Bush get accustomed to his new home with helpful sigimr
indicating such important places as the “Strategerie Room.”

SEIIIORS: WHA'|' KIIIO OF SUMMER JOB WOI||.O YOII LIKE
BEFORE YOU GO"I'O WORK III THE “REAL WORLD?” W

A job where you can make a lot of money?
OR
Would you prefer a job that gives you training in personal success, where you >1
can have fun in a stimulating and family-like atmosphere, make a good income,
and spend the summer in the mountains of Wyoming?

Check out our staff web site at www.coolworks.com/abara . ‘:5
Or call us at 303-838-1950 to set up an interview.

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

A

  THE PLACE roe FOOD AND rum !

LADIES AND GENTLEMAN : SOME
OF THE FUTURE LEADERS OF
AMERICA HAVE CHOSEN TO SPEND
    CS Oasis,
BECAUSE _I_I _I_S_ THE PLACE TO MEET,
MINGLE , AND GET TO KNOW THE
  PERSON OF THEIR CHOICE.
SOMETIMES SIMPLE LOGIC DOES
BEAT raaorrrom.

