 

"1.

4

K

  

Arch
—F"3>"?8.”I55
K552.
V4533

  
 

‘.'x_/-

 

Lil” ‘.<I ,—‘-g..«..;

  new

 U112 ilitng-tum lﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNlVERSlTY’S WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

Garage opens
unofﬁcally

Despite incomplete wheelchair
lift, garage opens to trafﬁc
By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Just in time for Alumni Weekend trafﬁc, Lexington’s
fust parking garage had its long-awaited opening Thurs-
day.

The parking spaces are now available to students, fac-
ulty, other staff members, and visitors.

The ofﬁcial opening of the garage will not occur until
the completion of the wheelchair lift by the foobridge, which
is scheduled for May 15.

Handicapped parking spaces were added to the front
of the Security Ofﬁce in order to accommodate campus
need until the wheelchair lift is ﬁnished.

The completion date of the garage was originally sched-
uled to be in February, but has been pushed back a few
times.

The garage will provide the parking spaces necessary
for what will be a high-trafﬁc area in the near future.
The garage will compensate for the parking spaces that
will be lost with the construction of a proposed Stu-
dent Center, which will be located in place of the park-
ing lot between Doremus gymnasium and Graham-Lees
Dormitories. The parking garage will also provide park-
ing facilities for the new sorority houses when they are
completed. V

Apart from future plans for the garage’s use, students
are already seeing the positive impact despite the long
wait.

“My car is already there,” senior Sula Jacobs said. “It
will be much more convenient and help with the
[trafﬁc]congestion.”

' Students felt that the parking garage may relieve some
of the ticketing problems on campus. “I think there won’t
be as many tickets, but people will still be ﬁghting for
spots outside of D-hall and the dorms,” sophomore Sean
Rump said.

Reﬂecting the sentiment of many students, Rump noted
the annoyance of the delays, “It could have been more
helpful earlier.” Rump, a resident of Woods Creek apart-
ments, pointed to the opening of Denny Circle road as the
most convenient aspect of the garage completion. “The
opening of the street was great. I wanted to drive through
it a couple of times.”

Commuting students stand to beneﬁt the most from
the opening of the parking garage. “It will be great. There
is nowhere to park right now and it’s really tough when
you have a three hour class and there is only two hour
parking,” said Ted Adams.

The additional spaces should relieve much of the com-
petition for parking spots and the number of parking vio-
lations. “I’ll save lots of money because I’ll be paying for
fewer tickets,” Adams said.

 

  

7 pm; by-7l'KT3n7y’l7.4 r1'edel7R{ot<TEd$—

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 8, 2000

fans back
for more

ex-students experienced the.

By Mike Crittenden

F EA TURES EDITOR

Alumni Weekend at Washington and Lee, a chance
for undergrads and alums to get together for the ulti-
mate party, hit this weekend and was marked by a new
parking garage, a great concert and the invasion of all
those who once ruled the campus.

Alumni Weekend, the annual three-day celebration
of the college years of yore, saw the traditional seer-
sucker suits, crazy cocktail parties and nostagia that
has become the hallmark of Alumni Weekend.

Festivities began on Thursday evening with the tra-
ditional Opening Assembly in the Lee Chapel. Thurs-
day night also saw the first of many “Welcoming Recep-
tions” held at the Alumni House featuring plenty of re-
uniting among old friends and their acquaintances.

Friday began with President Elrod’s annual
President’s Address, also in Lee Chapel. Luer that night,
the younger alumns headed up to the Pavillion for the
.moe and Leftover Salmon concert.

After Saturday’s dinner on thefront lawn, the a
cappella concert featured Washington and Lee’s music

W&L of the new millennium

Alumni Weekend brings W&L’s greatest

A campus invasion of alumni swept over the front lawn Saturday as part of annual festivities.

talents. Following the evening’s dedication of the bridge
connecting the sorority houses to the new parking garage,
some tore up the Warner Center ﬂoor at the Reunion Dance.
Many skipped the dance to participate in the traditional
W&L Saturday night, proving that some things never
change: dancing to the music in any fraternity basement.

The weekend

offered many
activites for
everyone to
enjoy, from
the class of
‘50 _to ‘95,
including
Friday’s .moe
and Leftover
Salmon
concert (left),
and the
Renunion
Dance on

photo by David Hanson/Staff Writer

Satur'day(right). ‘

   
  

 
   

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor‘

photo by Emily Barnesl Executive Editor

“Love Letter” e—mail virus infects campus

By Alexis Yee-Garcia

NEWS EDITOR

W&L computing shut down all campus e—mail systems

, on Thursday to prevent the spread of the Love Letter com-

puter virus.

The Love Letter virus affected computer systems na-
tionwide on Thursday and Friday last week, prompting
law enforcement ofﬁcials to get involved on F riday. Ac-
cording to the New York Times, investigators have traced
the virus to the Philippines so far and are continuing to
look for the virus’s author.

The virus was a “worm virus,” meaning it did not rely
on the computer user to send a ﬁle to other users in order
to spread. The Love Letter virus and other “worm” viruses
spread through e—mail by automatically sending a mes-
sage to users in computer address books of infected sys-

‘ terns. The e—mail message read “kindly check the attached

LOVELETTER coming from me” and the virus was acti-
vated once the attachment was opened. The virus deleted
multimedia ﬁles, especially JPG or JPEG ﬁles and .MP3s.

Cliff Woolley and Charlie Hitlin of W&L computer ser-
vices shut down W&L e—mail around 2:30 p.m. on Thurs-
day and worked all day and night with other staff members

Pat Robertson returns to W&L

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

Nationally syndicated televangelist
and W&L alumnus Pat Robertson
spoke to Professor Harlan Bec‘kley‘s
poverty class on ‘Wednesday.

“The principal causerof poverty is
false ideology, either economic or spiri-
tual,” he said. - .

Robertson emphasized the increas-
ingly desperate situation of impover-
ished third world countries and the
American responsibility to help these
people. He favors capitalist economic
systems and cites the United States
as the ultimate example of free markets
bringing prosperity to its citizens.
Robertson criticized the lntemational
Monetary Fund for its excessive re-
quirements for giving out loans, be-
cause these policies force third world
governments to decrease social
spending. 

Robertson also said the American
government spends less than one per-
cent of its annual budget on intema-
tional aid, which is “ridiculous” con-
sidering our wealth. In this spirit, he
favors increased American aid to de-
veloping countries, a belief not shared
by many other political conservatives.

“America is the stingiest country
in the world,” he said.

Many in the audience were sur-
prised that Robertson, one of the lead-

ing conservatives in the country, es-
poused such compassionate views.

‘‘It was interesting to find out that
many of his viewswere considerably
further to the leﬁ than I would have
otherwise thought,” Professor
Beckley said.

Robertson also practices what he
preaches. He founded Operation
Blessing to help provide food and
medical care to poor people in impov-
erished countries. In two weeks, the
organization performed 22,000 medical

operations.

“I was really impressed with how
much he does to ﬁght international
poverty,” freshman Mary Carol Mazza
said.

Robertson also talked about the
widespread poverty in the United
States, but was quick to downplay its
signiﬁcance when compared with de-
veloping countries. He cited an in-
stance in which an American family
considered impoverished by govem-
ment standards owned a cable televi-
sion and a VCR. Mazza said she did
not think that example was illustrative.

“I’m sure there are many cases like
that, but I don’t think they’re‘ the ma-
jority either,” she said.

On domestic poverty, Robertson
sounded much more like a political
conservative, Beckley said Robertson

advocated better education and the

preservation of the traditional family
as the most important factors in avoid-
ing poverty. After high school, he

to develop a program to eliminate the virus from W&L e-mail.

“We wrote a script that would run on everyone’s com-
puter that would delete the actual virus and the affected
ﬁles,” said Hitlin.

Around 9:00p.m. Thursday night they were able to run
the program to begin removing the virus. Woolley said
they were not able to implement the program sooner be-
cause of problems with backing up Groupwise ﬁles.

“Deleting ﬁles on Groupwise is not exactly safe,” said
Woolley. “Just in case it messes up you have to back up
files before deleting and you have to shut down
[Groupwise] to get a good back up.”

While Groupwise and Pegasus were ofﬂine, about 6,000
incoming e-mails were stored on the Liberty server. Com-
puter services released the stored e—mail Friday morning
when they turned the main servers back on. The gateway
between the campus network and the intemet was also re-
opened Friday morning around 1 l:00a.m.

As a precaution, a new program called Novell Applica-
tion Launcher (NAL) will open when people log on to the
campus network.

“[NAL] allows us to push a program out to the network.
If we want to force you to run something, we can do it with
the Novell Application Launcher,” Woolley said.

Starting Friday, NAL ran a Love Letter virus detection
program every hour as a precaution. The program that
Woolley and Hitlin developed earmarks incoming e—mail
with speciﬁc subject headings. Woolley explained that com-
puter services staff can then check to make sure the e-
mails are not infected before they are sent to the individual
mail boxes. A

“That way if other versions of the virus come out, we
can stop them before they go to the mail boxes,” explained
Woolley.

Other versions of the virus have already been discov-
ered, including one with an attachment that is supposed to
be a joke instead of a love letter.

The only computer systems that will not be affected by
the virus are Macintosh or Apple systems. Hitlin ex-
plained that he tried several times to run the virus on
the Computer Services’ iMac but there were too many
features that were specifically designed for Windows
systems. Unfortunately, there are fewer than 100 iMacs
on campus.

Students and faculty who discover missing files are
advised to call the computer help desk at x4357.

“Luckily we can recover most of what was lost,” said
Hitlin. “But don’t call us for .MP3s.”

for his 50"‘

says, ﬁnding an entry-level job and
getting married will help reduce the risk
of falling below the poverty line, he
said. Sophomore Quincy Springs dis- I
agrees, saying that the low-skilled jobs
Robertson is talking about are in in-
creasingly short supply in our boom-
ing economy.

“Basically, getting a job is not as
easy as it sounds,” he says. Springs
also said that the welfare system,
which in some states pays recipients
more than if they were working, does
not provide the proper incentives to
get a job.

Robertson also says that educa-
tion, the best way to prevent poverty,
is inadequate in the United States.

“There’s hardly a school system in
America that hasn’t failed it’s children
in terms of reading and writing . . . the
level of literacy is appalling,” he said.

Robertson also said that United

@1112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlii  

OPINION:
Making money the
American way. . . suing

W&LIEE:

Two W&L seniors start
their own business

SPORTS:
1 Spring term style sports

May 8, 2000

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

SEE ROBERTSON

page 3

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 itting-tum iﬁhi

PINION

 

MAY 8, 2000

Fast money — the
true American way

States Courts have decided that
Gates has too much money and now

Bored with spring tenn already?
How about suing someone?

There are a million and one lawsuits
in the news right now. Microsoft was
just broken up, MP3.com and Napster
are being sued by the Recording In-
dustry Association of America, and
those are only a few examples of
what’s going on.

I am tired of reading about lawsuits
and hearing about who’s suing whom.
I would much rather know that there is
a war in a third-world country that will
ultimately raise
imported prod-
uct prices or

he has to pay.

ing CDs.

 

Coffee Talk

how the gov— these people
emmentisﬁnd- Hather McDonald ‘()1 were able to
ing ways to capitalizeonthe
combat pov- system faster
erty. Idon’tcare than the RIAA,

Same deal goes for MP3.com and
Napster. These two sites provided
(albeit illegal) copies of songs to the
general public for free. Yes, it’s copy-
right infringement. But no one has
actually been able to prove that these
services actually take away from buy-

I will often buy a CD after I’ve
listened to clips of it on the computer

(either in MP3 or
RealAudio for-
mat). Because

that A is suing B.

Lawsuits simply prove that people
are jealous and greedy. Look at Bill
Gates. I may not like the way he runs
his business, and maybe he doesn’t
create the perfect products that the ad-
vertisements claim, but I really do ad-
mire him.

Gates is the guy from your high
school that never had a date in his life,
and now, 20 years later, he’s the rich-
est man in America —— in addition to
just about recreating the way mankind
works with computers.

I-Ie embodies the American capi-
talist dream — he worked hard and in-
vented new products, and made a lot
of money out of it. Instead of saying,
hey! The system works! The United

the RIAA got jealous and decided
they wanted some of the action too.

Most lawsuits, not necessarily all,
are manifestations of humankind’s
worst attribute —— greed. People are
encouraged to work hard, create, and
prosper-and then are punished for
doing exactly those things!

The American Way should not
contradict itself this frequently. If the
parties involved really wanted to
change the problem, then why don’t
they create a competing network or
group to challenge the offending
party?

I guess because it’s just easier to
sue instead of working hard and ﬁx-
ing the situation.

Lawsuit, anyone?

Getting bored of Goshen?
Write for the Phi!

(Remember, Journalism majors need clips
for their majors and internships!)

Submit letters to the editor to University‘
Center room 208, or contact Stephanie
Bianco at biancos@wlu.edu or Emily Barnes
at bamese@wlu.edu for more information.

CLASSES? WHAT CLASSES? Students enjoy the cool waters and warm sunshine out at Goshen Pass this week, reveling in the beauti-
ful weather characteristic of spring term. '

Flipping a canoe and getting bruises

When I realized Alumni Weekend
was approaching last week I had mixed
feelings. I was happy for same rea-
sons as many students: catching up
with old friends, more parties that one
could possibly attend in a week, much
less a weekend, and good alcohol. I
was nervous‘ that I wouldn’t be able
to last the whole weekend and be able
to live it up. Why you ask? That’s
simple: three P.E.s.

Before the gasping begins, no I am
not a senior trying to squeeze in those
graduation requirements. I decided
that Spring Tenn is traditionally gor-
geous weather and what better way
to enjoy it than to take classes out-
side and get “buff”?

Monday brought me a day of
horseback riding. After years of not
riding, I was eager to get on a horse
finally (the ﬁrst two times we didn’t even
get on the horse). It went off without a
hitch and my conﬁdence of Alumni
Weekend endurance was building.

Tuesday was a big day. I had
weight training and canoeing. Weight

training was a cinch. We met on the
track, stretched, did a run/walk for nine
minutes, and then lifted. I was in and
out in a little over an hour. Then, I went
to canoeing. I carried the 16 foot, 80
pound canoe with my partner. We
made it through '
rapids and man-
aged to do a few
eddy turns. We
controlled the

Needless to say, this shattered any
and all conﬁdence of endurance for
the big weekend.

The week continued. Weight train-
ing didn’t injure me anymore, but I was
inpainﬁomthecanoefall.IspentThurs-

boat with many -
cross-draws, J -strokes and forward
power strokes. About three and a half
hours into canoeing we were both get-
ting a bit tired. Then, it happened. We
ﬂipped; “

No details are ‘needed.

As you can imagine it wasn’t a good
time. After that, we were getting
desparate because we never thought.
we were going to make it back to BV
alive. I believe at one point I told my
bowperson that I had lost the will to
live. Surprisingly, we made it back alive
and were moaning the entire ride back
to big Lex.

and I made it all right (high ﬁve to my-
self).

I had a great Alumni Weekend and
expected no less. I went party hop-_
ping. I took advantage of the non-
Natty shindigs. I enjoyed the weather
at two aﬁemoon parties. I caught up
with some old friends and met a few
new ones. I listened to my favorite
band Saturday night. I even made it
through the hoards of people and ex-
treme heat at Chi Psi late night. It was
a successful weekend despite my tri-
als and tribulations earlier in the week.

Now Alumni Weekend has come

and gone and I am still finding more
bruises. These bruises are not shame-
ful ones. They are party injuries. They
are war wounds. They make you
proud and hold you head high be-
cause you can physically prove that,

day after- “yes - you did go out” and “yes - you

—X1___—-:':—_ eXamda.d.leGmpe noon and Fri- did have an amazing time” and “yes —
day morning you are more fun than everyone else.”

Stephanie Bianco >01 g e t t i n g They come from when you are scream-
psyched for ing for the band to play one more song.

the weekend They come from being packed in a ﬁa-

temity basement pressed against the
stage that oh-so-conveniently hits
most people mid-shin. They come from
sliding in the fraternity sludge found
on the ﬂoors of every house. They
come from other people who lack con-
trol of their limbs when they dance.
They make you smile as you piece to-
gether which incident that blue and
purple bruise on your right forearm
came from. So, I ask you now to look
around...identify the events
preceeding each bruise. . . and sit back
and laugh over another wild Alumni
Weekend.

uote of the Week:

{(

I’m here to make money,
not friends.

— Thomas “Baner” Bane to man who
told him not to tow alumni’s cars

I}

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Brendan Harrington
Heather MacDonald
Tiffany Friedel

Lisa Lin

Neal Willetts

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editors

I Copy Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo Editor
Layout Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the ri ‘ edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of T he Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30 »

RCHS: the next frontier for frat party dates?

W&L woman alert: There is an unnoticed group of
women in your backyard, waiting to find W&L men for
date functions. There are not just ﬁve road schools for
competition. There are Rockbridge County High School
girls.

This Saturday, while most everyone went to band par-
ties with alumni, I went undercover to the RCHS prom in
Natural Bridge. Women and men should be concerned with
this urgent message (thankfully not from University Com-
puting).

RCHS put on a decent event, complete with leftover
Fancy Dress decorations and plenty of debauchery. The
high school kiddos danced like crazy to just about any-
thing the DJ played, but they really
came alive to the school favorite —

Fancy Dress or even a band party. We would much prefer
to hire an amiable W&L security guard than the aggres-
sive police officers that RCHS hired.

If W&L gatherings are so much more party-friendly,
what would happen if the two cultures collided? I am aﬁaid
to say that the cultures did collide Saturday night. I could
not believe it when I saw it, but there actually were a num-
ber of W&L men at the prom. I will refrain from naming
people, but I am safe in saying that everyone would be
surprised to see some of these guys at RCHS.

In fact, I was amazed to see so many VMI, Harnpden-
Sydney and W&L guys Saturday night. RCHS women
invited an impressive number of road school guys, forc-
ing many of the senior guys to
ask underclassmen. My date

Rocky Top. This year, thankfully, no
one got so carried away that an ambu-
lance had to be called.

Two cultures exist so close but

left Side of the Aisle
Nathan Urquhart ’O1

supplied me with all kinds of
rumors about where RCHS
women went to meet these

never recognize each other’s pres-
ence. The RCHS students, W&L students and our alumni
had very similar goals for the evening. All groups want to
have a good time dancing and drinking the night away.
However, W&L has created a sanctuary for partying that
is the envy of most every RCHS student.

Prom-goers went to great lengths to sneak alcohol into
the prom, most attempts being successful as far as I know.
W&L students would never allow such tight security at

 

guys. We might be seeing more
RCHS women at our parties in
the future, as the women seemed very interested in where
and when we would be having our Spring Term gather-
ings.

Many prom-goers expressed interest in attending
Alumni Weekend band parties, as the unoﬁicial after-prom
party was all but guaranteed to be broken up by the po-
lice. ‘

RCHS students are very familiar with alumni who con-

tinually reappear. Many,JRCHS alumni return for the prom
so many times that they wear out their welcome, not unlike
some of the W&L alumni who return every year to restore
order to their fraternities by destroying property and leav-
ing town before the University damage bill comes.

In fact, RCHS now has a rule that dates over the age of
23 must be approved, and my sources tell me that several
approvals were made. Perhaps fraternities should consider
making criteria for which alumni can attend parties.

The primary difference between our parties and the
prom scene must be the number of ﬁghts. I have never
been amongst a group of people who threw so many
punches.

Aﬂer witnessing a couple of heated verbal arguments Z

that administrators broke up, I started asking prom-goers
about the ﬁghts. The minor of the evening was that a guy
hit his date because she did not want to go to an after-
prom party with him. Everyone claimed that they saw the

big event, yet no one had details (the assistant principal '

told me that they know nothing of this ﬁght).

Sure, there is an occasional ﬁght at a party here, but I
rarely hear of this many ﬁghts in one night, especially be-
tween dates.

Thankfully, I survived my night and lived to return to
W&L and attend some Alumni Weekend parties that night.
Mixing between the two cultures did not feel right. Judging
from the number of W&L guys at the prom, however, I think
that die this mixing may happen more than many think.

TALKb3CkI  What did you wantto be...wliat are you now?

 

“It’s not iinpfdrfafntwhaﬁwanted to be,

but I exceeded all expectations because of was a former Ring.mm Phi editor_ _ _ an imemet company _ as far 5-om
the fine, ﬁne foundations of W&L!” I’m. an episcopal bishop.” being a lawer as can be,”
-Burk Wilson ‘75 -PeterLee ‘60 -GreggAmonnet.’te ‘75

 

“i:1idii?gHt lid bile}: newspaperinan 41 I

 

l“Itl1ou(gh‘t’I"d be a lawyer. I’m now 

 

“I just wanted to graduate! I screwed
around too much in the ﬁrst two years
here, soitwasagame ofcatchupaﬁer
that.” -Craig Wadell ‘85

 

 

 

I 5 : l Elli: ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

   

 

     

4
MAY 8,  PAGE 3

“ W&L sen'ors jo' the real

‘ orld 'th onl°ne business   

it - tion caused by chlorine, sun light, salt water and laundry .

By Emlly Barnes detergents. Lefﬂer pointed out that this protection is sig-
EXECUT1 VE ED 1 TOR nificantly better than the protection provided by typical
summer tee-shirt.
Upon graduation, two seniors will launch a company “Most people think that a tee-shirt provides adequate
J“ devoted to keeping their customers in the shade. protection,” Leﬂler said. “In reality, according to the Ameri-
Senior Business Administration Majors Stephanie can Academy of Dermatology, a light colored cotton tee-
Lefﬂer and Ryan Noble are set to graduate and take on shirt only provides an SPF of 7.”
their business full-time. The company, the Sun Safe Lefﬂer turned down a job at public relations firm
4 Shop, will sell swimwear and accessories that have an Burson-Marsteller in order to take on the business with
Sun Protection Factor (SPF) of 50+ to protect skin from Noble.
the damaging effects of the sun. “I think that running my own business is the best
The company will market its products through baby’s way to learn,” she said. “I will gain more experience in this
and children’ s stores and through their web site, endeavor than I would by working in a low-level position
4 www.sunsafeshop.com. The web site provides extensive in a giant firm.”
information about the dangers associated with sun expo- Lefﬂer and Noble will share the business with Rosslyn
sure in addition to providing sun protective solutions. Cox, a senior at Adelaide University in South Australia.
The Sun Safe Shop will offer 65 products ranging Cox has experience in the industry through working for the
K «from swimwear and sunglasses to polo tops and hats. Anti-Cancer Foundation of South Australia. She has wit-
Although some sun-protective items will be available nessed the success of sun-safe clothing in Australia. Cox
for adults, the company will primarily focus on provid- will move to the United States this summer.
ing products for babies and children. The three hired Storebusters.com, a company owned
The idea for the company was born when Noble stud- by W&L graduates Gaelan Brown, Kelly Dyer, and Sean
,( ied abroad in Australia during last year’s winter and spring Cannon, to design and promote the SunSafeShop’s web
terms. site.
“Sun Protective clothing and swimwear is a relatively Lefﬂer and Noble have received help and advice
new concept in the United States,” Noble said. “When I from Professors Dennis Garvis and Kimberly Cass.‘
studied abroad in Australia, I learned about the popular Noble created the company’s business plan during

"» product and was surprised that it was not widely avaliable an independent study with Garvis. Cass is currently

in the United States.” assisting Leffler and Noble in creating an internet
“Skin Cancer is a signiﬁcant problem in the U.S,” said marketing plan.
Lefﬂer. “One in two Americans who live to age 65 will Noble and Leffler will offer internships for stu-
. contract skin cancer; 1.2 million new cases will be diag- dents interested in marketing and public relations. They
V nosed this year.” will hold an information session for students interested
The Sun Safe Shop will offer swimwear made by Aus- in full-time employment and internships Monday, May
tralian manufacturer SolarSuit. The Sun Safe Shop is 8 at 7 p.m. in University Center Room 114.
SolarSuit’s exclusive U.S. distributor. SolarSuit’s Chloresist -Additional information from a press release from Sun
4. material provides an SPF of 50+ while resisting deteriora— Safe Shop courtesy of Stephanie Leﬂler and Ryan Noble
, yp
By Kris Ponina Murphy, immersed in their own punk band, decided to join
STAFF WRITER Chris Reardon and Tony Lopacinski, who were already
playing in an indie band.
& T , Though both pairs found common ground in their mu- Stephanie Lefﬂer and Ryan Noble are ready to run their new online company, the Sun Safe Shop,
On Saturday, May 13, Earth to Andy, amajor label re- sical taste, their real nexus resided in their desire for a V after they graduate. As this model proves, the company’s product is safe and stylish too.
ording artist, Will be performing at the Sigma Nu frater- change, In addition to the skills of their production manag- ~é—-—- W   ——- V — ~———4~—-~——e———é- —— ..
ittyh. Earth to Andy has been described as “Soundgarden ers Nick Launay (Semisonic, Silverchair, Talking Heads), ‘
i the Beatles singing,” a blend of hard and modem and Chris Loyd-Alge (Everclear, Fastball, Hole, Green Day),

;. ock. The band consists of front man “Andy,” (he just Earth to Andy also can brag of their guest appearance by M O S t W & L S t U A Q h t S _ L  
oes by Andy), Kevin Murphy on the drums, bassist Chris Stone Temple Pilot’s Robert DeLeo on their CD. . '
eardon, and Tony Lopacinski playing guitar. From toursites that range from Texas to Tennessee to

The band has produced their first CD “Chronicle New Hampshire, Earth to Andy will be making their Wash-
ings,” and the single “Still After You” is already being ington andWLee debut in less than a week. The band has

* layed on more than 74 radio stations across the country. toured wiﬁ3immie’s Chicken Shack and Canada’s Joy Drop.
heir inﬂuences stem from Radiohead, Foo Fighters, Stone The Sigma Nu fraternity booked them via an alum who
emple Pilots, and Chris Cornell, combining mellow rock worked for the Phillip Morris Agency, Earth to Andy’s

V unes with complex lyrics and guitar riffs. representing agents. Matt Herman, a junior Sigma Nu,
( The buzz about the band that’s intense music has swept claims, “Earth to Andy’s music deﬁnitely could appeal to
he Eastern Seaboard began about 2 years ago in most of the student body here. I’m hoping for a big tum-
harlottesville and Washington, DC. Andy and Kevin _out this weekend.”
ROBERTSON CONT.
“— United States prisons do not do enough to educate husband walks out,” he said_
he" Prisoners. Freshman Sara Rafferty said she agrees with Robertson. 
“The rate of criminal recidivism is incredible because “Families are the central unit of love and support in 
ur prisons don’t prepare inmates for life on the outside,” society , . . staying together is paramount,” she said.

, 6 said, pointing to a prison reading program he super- Roberston graduated magna cum laude from W&L in

ises as a model for others. A ' 1950, and is in Lexington for his fiftieth reunion. He says
Robertson also says that the high number of divorces that he is enthusiastic about W&L having a poverty class. I
S the primary cause of the declining role of the family, “When I was here, we were quite frankly more con- “
hich in turn causes poverty. He favors the abolition of cerned with partying than helping the poor, so I’m glad ,
K o-fault divorce, in which a person may dissolve the mar- things have changed in fiﬁy years,” he said. 3
iage without proving adultery or abuse by their spouse. Mazza said that even though very few people at the talk 1
“S°m°b°dY in the SeV€nti€S 01109 Said that ‘any Woman agreed with all of Robertson’s ideas, most were highly irn- 
ho votes for no-fault divorce is like a turkey voting for pressed,
‘ hanksgiving,’ [and they were right], because it’s not ﬁnal “I think everyone left impressed with him as a speaker,” I
nd leaves a woman and her family in poverty while the she said_
i
A Show your WALK TALL|  
I
love... nyouwamme .
% pride that comes with ‘
‘ wearing a badge of spe-
for the  cial achievement, the
‘ Army offers you a
.  choice of eight.
‘ R  _ Infantry...Armor...
- . Artillery..Air Defense
. Arti1lery...Combat
P h 1' Engineers...A&rlS3orn<:.1..
. ,. Ran ers ...an ci
l : ' . F01-§eS_ ‘T PC Based on Wal c0BE Survev
  I These are the‘   ilatatrom 1998,1999
Interested in writing  .  ‘ Army” C°m.bat Arms_ » t
‘ = , “ ,and the S°1d1erS ‘,Vh° Funded Iiv a grant trim
for us? Please call the wear their badges are the elite among all soldiers. _ ,
Office at 4624060, and If you think you have what it takes to become
one of them, talk to your Army Recruiter.
let us know your true
1 . . - -
feelings... Virginia Ilenartment iii
ARMY BE ALL You CAN BEG Alcoholic Beverage control _
I . . .

 

 

 

PAGE4

Uh: ﬂing‘-tum lﬂht

SPORTS

 

Generals gear up forplayoffs

By Mike Holmes

STAFF WRITER

The Generals, now ranked fourth
in the country, are busy preparing to
improve on their record season.

Their only loss was to third ranked
Gettysburg earlier this season. Since
then, the Generals have won 1 1 in a row,
received a bid to the NCAA tournament,
won their second straight ODAC cham-
pionship, and tied the 1974 record of 14
regular season wins. ‘

The Generals are poised for excel-
lence in the tournament ahead. But
then again, so was last year’s team.

The 1999 lacrosse team had only
one close early season loss, went on
to win 12 in a row, the ODAC crown,
and were a favorite heading into
postseason. The Generals were busy
preparing to roll on through the tour-
nament before their season came to a
stunning halt.The Generals were
handed an upset that overshadowed

an otherwise amazing season.

The 26 returning members from the
1999 team remember the high expecta-
tions they had going into the touma-
ment, and have not forgotten the sea-
son ending upset they suffered.

Coach Stagnitta remembers last
year’s loss as a “learning experience”
and says “the whole year we’ve pre-
pared differently [for the toiu-nament].”

This year the team has had shorter,
more focussed practices, and each week
the team continues to improve.
Stagnitta, ODAC coach of the year, cred-
its his team’s “talent, leadership, experi-
ence, and ability to stay focussed on
what they set out to accomplis ” for
their success they have had so far this
year. Talent is an understatement.

Eight Generals were named first or
second team All-Conference last
week, in addition to Stagnitta’s rec-
ognition as coach of the year.

Junior attackman Matt Dugan, se-

rnior attackman Chris Brown, junior
midfielder Pope Hackney, senior

defenseman Charlie Antrim, and junior
defenseman Pete Iwancio were all
named first team All-ODAC, while se-
nior attackrnan Colin Dougherty, junior
midﬁelder Bernie Norton, and junior
goalie Wes Hays were second team .

The balance of the tearn’s oﬁ‘ense
and defense has helped the Generals
to a scoring margin of 15 goals per
game. Consistent play on both ends
will be a deciding factor on how far
the team will advance this year.

“If we play like we’re capable of
playing, the rest will take care of it-
self’ said coach Stagnitta about this
year’s tournament.

The Generals, who earned home
ﬁeld advantage for the ﬁrst game, will
face Kenyon (13-1) Wednesday after-
noon. Kenyon, who is out of the Mid-
west, is currently rarikedtwelﬁh in
Division III, losing only to Denison.

If the Generals can get by Kenyon,
they will have the opportimity for re-
venge against Gettysburg in the sec-
ond round.

Baseball

 

Salem, VA——The Old Dominion
Athletic Conference released its
postseason baseball honors last
Thursday. Washington and Lee
was honored with the placement
of Michael Hanson (Atlanta, Ga./
Pace) and Bobby Littlehale (Villa
Park, lll./Willowbrook) on the sec-
ond team.

Hanson, a freshman second-
baseman for the Generals, finished the
season with a .328 batting average and
tearn-highs in both home-rims (5) and
stolen-bases (10). Hanson was also
one of W&L’s top pitchers this past
season. For the year, he accumulated
a record of 7-3 on the mound, boast-
ing a team-best ERA of 3.63.

Littlehale was the starting leftfielder
for the Generals throughout most of
the 2000 campaign. As a freshman this
season, Littlehale led W&L in doubles

(10) and RBl’s (27), while ranking
second on the team in both batting
average (.350) and hits (43). Overthe _
course of the regular-season,
Littlehale hit at a torrid .404 clip
against ODAC competition.
Washington and Lee finished its’
year with a record of 20- 1 5 overall.
The Generals ﬁnished the regular
season at 9-7 in the ODAC, good
enough for the fourth seed in last
weekend’s ODAC Tournament.
-courtesy Sports Information

Senior Generals attacker
Katherine Riddle was named to the
All-ODAC women’s lacrosse first
team in an announcement by the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Friday.

Riddle, a four-year starter play-
ing in every game of her W&L la-
crosse career, ranks fourth on
W&L’s career-scoring list of all time
with 100 goals and 4lassists. She
led her team this year with 29 goals
and 13 assists.

After earning a second-team spot
last year, Riddle was excited to re-
ceive this year’s award to top oﬁ‘ her
career in the sport she said helped
to define her college experience.

“When I think about my experi-
ences here at W&L on the whole,
lacrosse is probably the most valu-
able thing that I’ve done,” Riddle
said. “lt’s taught me a lot about
myself and my own personal goals,
my own personal drive and ambi-
tion; that’s where I’ve learned about
who I am, on the field.”

As team captain,'Riddle attributes
the honor to the Generals’ success-
ful teamwork this season, and their
ability to step up to the challenge af-
ter losing several of last year’s start-
ing players.

“I don’t feel like anyone this year
could have done it by themselves at all.
We definitely were a team this year,”
she said. “I’m really lucky to have
ended my season like this. I’ll remem-
ber this year for a long, long time.”

Other honored team members
included sophomore defender

Riddle heads list of all-stars

Eloise Priest, who was also named to the
first team. Freshman attacker Leslie
Bogart, sophomore midﬁelder Courtenay
Fisher, and junior attacker Ellen Ritsch
earned a place on the second team.

I-
MAY 8, 2000
rt
H
.11
be
is
1»
A
>4
A
' R iphiotoicourtesrry of {refs mi;
The Generals finished their sea.-
son with an overall 8-5. .
-Courtesy of Sports Information '
with additional reporting by
Emily Barnes

Spring term sports :,An adventurer’s g

By David Hanson

STAFF WRITER

Two things change in spring at
W&L: the weather gets nice (unless
you enjoy 43 degrees and drizzling)
and students have much more free
time. These changes translate into the
opportimity to try new activities in the
outdoors. Why wouldn’t you spend
the aﬁemoon of a surmy day hiking,
canoeing, rope swinging, biking,
climbing, or launching mayonnaise-
ﬁlled balloons at coeds in the quads?
Sega or TBS’s “Silvester Stallone
Week” may keep some from getting
outside, but for those interested in
finding out what’s out there, here’s a
little something.

First, take the basics - hiking. The
only equipment necessary are shoes
and water. There are trails through-
out this area Of course, there is House
Mountain, an uphill climb on a log-
ging road that takes about 45 minutes
to reach the saddle of the mountains.
Then pick a mountain - Little or Big -
and hike on another 30 minutes or so
for views of Lexington and the whole
valley. Other hikes include numerous
trails that bisect the Blue Ridge Park-

way, speciﬁcally the Bluff Mountain
section that begins a few miles south
of the Parkway bridge where Route
60 crosses above Buena Vista. This
hike is another steady climb, but only
takes about an hour and offers grand
views of the valley. Mt. Pleasant hik-
irig area, the St. Mary’s wilderness
area, and Goshen all have plentiful
trails as well and are within a 40
minute drive. _
For the bikers in the crowd, the
roads out route 60 toward House
Mountain all seem to connect some-
how and make for a good ride. There
is actually a biking trail on the carn-
pus that begins behind the athletic
fields and ends up down by the cliﬁ‘s
along the Maury River. A little fur-
ther away are the ATV trails along
Route 52 on the way to Lynchburg.
For those who have a canoe hang-
ing up in their dorm room just waiting
to hear about places to use it, there is
the Maury, speciﬁcally Goshen for
whitewater and the kayakers. Woods
Creek is not a suitable option for ca-
rioeing. However, the James River is

‘ not too far away and swallows up the

Maury near Glasgow. This river is
much larger than the Maury River and
supposedly offers great small mouth

bass ﬁshing. .
Schuyler Marshall took advantage

-of the James Riyer for canoeing and

ﬁshing. He said of a recent trip, “the
ﬁshing was good, one rapid was big,
and the water was cold.”

Another less known activity avail-
able nearby is rock climbing. The most
accessible climbs are in Goshen, to-
ward the end, just downstream from
the swinging bridge. These are mainly
top-rope climbs of around 40 feet, but
there are numerous challenging
routes. For those without equipment,
you can always find one of the nu-
merous rock outcrops around campus
or in Goshen in order to practice your
bouldering.

Finally, after you are hot as Hades
from hiking, biking, boating, and
climbing all in the same day, you need
to ﬁnd a swimming hole or rope swing.
We have all heard of Goshen with its
water for swimming and its rocks for
sitting. But if you want to swim in
your birthday suit you may need more
privacy. Panther Falls is a great spot
in the Blue Ridge Mountains past
Buena Vista where you can jump off a
big rock and play around in a few

A natural pools. There are other places

to get wet throughout this same area,

uide

to outdoor activities

Row, ROW, ROW YOUR BOAT. Michael Hanson and Schuyler Marshall enjoy the Spring term weather»\
by canoeing down the Maury River.

all along the Pedlar River. For rope

swings you will have to consult the
speciﬁc homeowners who live near
them (“Riverhouse,” “Beans Bot-

tom”).

Of course, a great source for much
more information is the Outing Club
and its home page. For those lacking

the equipment necessary to do the
activities other than “skinny dippin”’, A
check out the Outing Club and see
what they can do to help.

601' photos you think
people should see?

Bring photo submissions for the Phi

senior issue

Friday May 19.

to the University Center by

