 

C,’2._..

U112 iliing-tum Iﬂliftt”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

     
 

  
   
 
 

at-*«vv' ‘A ~~"”tf. .:‘"  .. ‘

aw.-..» ‘i -3 '--’—‘=¢- ‘v-‘Ml-

. ‘frag ‘Q0, 

VOLUME 103, No. 21

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2001

Y

‘SAC hosts
_ alcohol forum

By Michelle Lally

STA FF WRITER

.( The Student Affairs Committee hosted a forum discus-
sion Wednesday evening to address the University’s more
comprehensive alcohol policies.

Nine students, four professors and two Health Services
workers attended the forum. Many of the students who

'’ attended the meeting hold leadership positions on various
student committees. The Executive Committee, Student Ju-
dicial Committee, Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Coun-
cil and Students’ Rights Committee were all represented.

g Dean of Students David Howison led students and fac-
ulty in discussing initiatives ‘intended to reduce what he
referred to as “high risk drinking behavior.”

These proposals include a single-sanction one-year sus-

M pension for a DUI and parental notiﬁcation of alcohol-re-

”‘ lated arrests for repeat offenders. Members of the forum
also discussed providing alternative social events, limiting
the role of hard liquor and managing fraternity parties.

Students offered many suggestions to improve the ef-

.‘ fectiveness of Live Drive and Safe Ride, such as posting

L the routes of the University vans, registering off-campus
parties to be included on Safe Ride routes and extending
Live Drive hours.

In efforts to adhere to Virginia laws on the consump-

"» tion and distribution of alcohol, EC President senior John
Cornly suggested that seniors rather than sophomores live
‘in fraternity houses. The idea received overwhelming sup-
port from the faculty and staff in attendance. Howison

,‘ noted that liability would decrease drastically if the houses
were inhabited by men of legal drinking age.

Howison said this plan would shift the balance of power
in the fraternity houses.

“Seniors and juniors would be responsible for running

< their fraternity, thereby creating a stronger fraternity sys-
tem,” Howison said.

Howison, who supports the resolution, said he intended
to draw up the proposal immediately and begin the ap-

‘ proval process in order to enact the plan by the 2002-2003
school year.

Students present at the meeting also supported the idea. “It
would be a lot of fun to live with my friends senior year,” said
Alcohol Task Force co-Chair.W"Ill Cotfman, a sophomore.

R IFC President senior Andy Robinson agreed.

“It’s the easiest solution [and] a painless way to gain
ground,” Robinson said.

Participants also discussed various ways to reduce
the role of alcohol at W&L events, including cocktail par-
ties, alumni functions and tailgates.

Howison expressed disappointment at the poor stu-
dent turnout and announced his intention of holding a
second, follow-up forum discussion in the next few weeks

I, in which he hopes to get more student feedback.

Howison said the University’s focus on reducing alco-
hol consumption is a long-terrn project.

“We’re continually looking for ways to solve this prob-
lem,” said Howison.

    

Campus readies for

    



phoo by Eric Wehtler/Sff Photographer

2001

Fancy Dress festivities

By Latrina Stokes

STAFF WRITER

Gearing up for Fancy
Dress activities, the Stu-
dent Activities Board re-
leased the name of the
band scheduled to per-
form at the March 22 FD
concert.

Funky Meters, origi-
nally known as The
Meters, plays a mix of
funk, dance and blues.
The band has toured with

the Dave Mathews Band
and other popular musical
artists, including The Roll-
ing Stones.

Funky Meters formed in
1967 under the direction of
Art Neville, Jr., who plays
piano and provides vocals.
George Porter, Jr., plays the
bass guitar and Brian Stoltz
plays the guitar; both also
sing. Russell Batiste, Jr.,
plays the drums.

When learning of SAB’s
choice, many students said

photo Courtesy of SAB
MUSIC AND DANCE: (top) students take dance

lessons preparing for the ball; (above) the
Funky Meters will play at the concert.

that they had never heard
of the band.

Funky Meters is just
“another no-name band,”
junior Gary Davis said.

Freshman Lisa Sauer
was also not pleased.

“I want a band that ev-
eryone likes,” Sauer said.

Sophomore Rich Braund
is one of the few who does
know the band’s style. "They
have a jazz, funk, improv style
— really improv,” he said.
Because he listens to this
type of music. he said he
would attend the concert.

Despite being unfamiliar
with the band, several stu-
dents interviewed said that
they would attend the con-
cert. Davis said he would
consider going since he has
heard that Funky Meters
plays diverse music.

Freshmen Melanie Barr
and Marinda Harrell said
that they would attend “be-
cause the alternatives are
too depressing.”

SAB members sug-
gested several bands and

selected the Funky
Meters based on sound
and availability.

“For this concert we
were looking for a high
energy band,” said SAB
President senior Crystal
Simpson.

“I know not everyone
knows their sound,”
Simpson said.

She said Funky Meters
has a sound like George
Clinton & The P-Funk All
Stars,"‘buf the band goes
even further back to the
beginnings of funk.

Simpson plans to ad-
vertise the band’s style
by playing their music at
the Co-op and on
WLUR. ‘

Talking to people who
have attended the band’s
concerts convinced her that
the show will be exciting.

SEE ‘FD,’ PAGE 2

Soccer nets funds for breast cancer

Ben Stein
to share

“insight”
Political pundit, game

show host to speak
a By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Ben Stein, host of Comedy Central’s “Win Ben Stein’s
Money,” will bring his famous dry voice and sense of
humor to Washington and Lee.

Stein, also host of “Tum Ben Stein On” will speak on
Tuesday, March 27 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. His lecture
is sponsored by Contact and the Young Americas Foun-
dation, a conservative organization that helps students
bring speakers to campus. Stein, a noted actor, comedian,
author, and conservative political commentator, will give a
lecture titled “Win Ben Stein’s Insight.” Due to his varied
professional background, the content of his lecture is still
unknown.

Besides his current job as a game show host, Stein has
a diverse background in politics and entertainment. After
graduating as Valedictorian of his Yale Law School class
in 1970, Stein worked as a poverty lawyer and a trial law-
yer in trade regulation. He taught courses in politics
and the media and libel law at Pepperdine University.
From 1973-74, he wrote speeches for Richard Nixon,
and later for Gerald Ford. Stein insists he did not write
the line, “I am not a crook.”

Contact Committee member senior Philip Wright was
the primary force behind bringing Stein to campus. Wright
first heard Stein speak in Washington, D.C. while he was a
congressional intern. Wright said Stein is coming out of
his way to speak at W&L because he recently completed
a book on Robert E. Lee. He also said Stein will give a
great lecture.

“I thought he was engaging, and he connects well with
young people,” Wright said. “We’re excited.”

  
   

photo courtesy of Contat
BUELLER, BUELLER? Ben Stein will speak in,

Lee Chapel.

“' W&L tournament aids
y-American Cancer

,, Society’s research
By Amy Blevins

STAFF WRITER

A little initiative and planning produced big
I‘ results this Saturday and Sunday for cancer pa-
tients across the nation when a soccer tourna-

ment plarmed by freshman Rahrneen Farudi raised
over $10()() for the American Cancer Society. The
‘ proceeds from the tournament will go to fund

breast cancer research.

Farudi obtained permission from the Ameri-
can Cancer Society to use its name when rais-
ing money for its foundation.

T‘ Fourteen co—ed teams of about seven play-
ers each played over the weekend following
IM indoor soccer rules. Each team was guar-
anteed two games in the tournament.

‘I Freshmen Sustin Leggans and Matt Lafkas
refereed.

“I love soccer and [the tournament] was a

good idea,” said Laﬂcas.
The tournament “came together easily,”
,‘ Katkas said.
i Lafkas agreed.
“We got the court easily,” Lafkas said. “I

was personally worried about teams, but sud-
denly we had about 12 teams.”

On Saturday, teams Chi Psi, Phi Kappa
Sigma, Lafkas, and Bebona won their desig-
nated brackets.

Phi Kappa Sigma defeated Bebona in sud-
den-death overtime 2-1 the playoffs Sunday.
The winners received T—shirts and a Willson-
Walker House gift certiﬁcate.

The charity fundraiser brought groups from
all over campus to participate.

“It’s for a good cause,” said sophomore John
Wright. “I’ve had relatives die of cancer.”

The Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity made par-
ticipation in the tournament part of
pledgeship.

“Wejust wanted to make sure, since this

is a charity event, that we participated,” said

Sig Epjuniorleremy Kirkland. “And one way
we can ensure doing that is making it part
of pledgeship.”

The fundraising has personal meaning for
Farudi.

“I started the tournament because recently
my family and I found out that [my] mother has
breast cancer and I wanted to do something to
help,” Farudi said. “It has been really hard for

—me over the past several weeks, and I don’t

want anyone to have to experience what I have
seen my mom go through.”

photo by Mary Guy/ Photo Editor

FEET WORK. Senior Shana Levine
dribbles a soccer ball along the
Pavilion wall as freshman Bret Grote
contains her.

:1

Ellie ﬂing-tum Iﬂltt

March 5, 2001

   
    

T emptatiri
of will pow

  
 

Truc: r’s paradise: p to the plate:
A '0 ps Emory

and H ryﬁito tip" ’ ODAC

   

 

(E112 ﬁling-tum ilﬂhi

NEWS

14‘

 

Lenfest Series presents John

Amos in “Halley’s Comet”

The Lenfest Series at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity will present the award—winning John Amos
in “Halley’s Comet” on March 8, at 8 p.m.

Amos won an  as Kunta Kinte in the Roots
miniseries. He starred as James Evans, the father in
the television sitcom Good Times. He played oppo-
site Eddie Murphy in Coming to America and co-
strred with Bruce Willis in Die Hard II.

“Halley’s Comet” is a comedy about an 87-year
old man who shares his lifetime memories from the
time he last saw the comet 76 years earlier.

Bookstore sponsors essay contest
in honor of Women’s History Month

Entries should attempt to answer the question
“What QQ Women Want?” Essays should be approxi-
mately 500 words long. The first prize winner receives
a $50 gift certificate. The second prize entry wins a
$25 gift certificate. Submissions should have a sepa-
rate title page.

W&L Dining Service to Host

International Food Show

W&L Dining Services will host its sixth annual food
show on March 6, from 1 1:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m.

Over 24 vendors will display their products, with
offerings ranging from apples to zucchini. Dining ser-
vices will also raffle off a DVD player, a CD burner, an
MP3 recorder, a TV, a Palm Pilot, and a Play Station II.
The meal will cost one meal swipe on the University
Card.

 

7:30 p.m.— Campaign Program. “Reﬂections on
the 2000 Presidential Campaign,” Mike Allen ’86
and David Pace (W&L parent). Lee Chapel.

8:00 p.m.— The “Mass in B minor” Lenfest
Center. the Rockbridge Choral Society, W&L
Chamber Singers, Rockbridge Chamber Singers,
six soloists and a 30-piece orchestra.

Tuesday
8:00 p.m. - “Mass in B minor.”

Wednesday

George Washington Honor Scholarship Competition
7200 p.m. — Politics Filmfest. “Wall Street,” Room
221, Williams School.

Thursday

George Washington Honor Scholarship Competition
Phi Beta Kappa Convocation (Adjusted Class
Schedule)

    

photo by Mary Guyl Photo Editr

Jon WELL DoNE.‘Marion Heard, director of the Boston United Way, delivers the Friday

afternoon speech that closed the “Dream a Dream, Read a Book” Literacy Drive. —

P/11'

or die!

Join
IE:
university newspaper! .
Meetings every Tuesday
at 7:00 p.m.,

. theme is based on something that’s already fun.” -’

p University Center room 208.’

MARCH 5, 2001: V

(FD?

FROM PAGE 1}

“They’re saying if you give them a shot, you could appreciate them *7
in retrospect,” Simpson said. ‘

The band’s style will compliment this year’s FD theme to be re-
vealed Wednesday. ‘

Senior Christine van den Toom, who chairs the advertising sub- ‘
committee of the FD steering committee, said she was excited about ‘
this year’s theme.

“The theme is great. It’s really bright and colorful,” she said. “The

Van den Toom said that the entire campus will be decorated with
teasers about the theme. ,

The FD committee kicks off this year’s theme with a raffle in front
of the Co—op. Tickets will cost $10 for five. Memorabilia from past
balls will also be on sale. '

Tickets for Funky Meters go on sale a week before FD. They cost?
$15 for the W&L community and $20 for the general public.

The"Wallers and Kings of Swing bands will play at -the Fancy;
Dress ball. ‘

 

 

Ooh: iamg-tum aim

MARCH 5, 2001

‘Reality TV
‘doesn’t bite

PAGE 3

4

Students have been postponing their Wednesday night
time of departure in order to cater to one of the latest in
reality based television: Temptation Island. Every Wednes-
day, from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m., every phone in our apartment
gets switched to DND. Should someone make the mistake
of opening her mouth —v“I just contracted a terminal dis-
ease”—vshe is immediately quieted, usually with a ham-
mer thrown at her head. And thus is the great folly of our
culture: I can watch people hook up at a sketchy late night

Q DJ party, but I’d rather sit in front of the TV to do it. I can

ridicule the whole mild version of The Truman Show ‘til
I’m blue in the face, but it’s like admitting to buying a
Spice Girls CD or something. I’ve never met anyone who
liked them, but they still somehow managed to sell mil-

V lions of albums. I’ll be brave. I got addicted to the show.

I didn’t actually get into the whole Temptation Island
craze until roughly three episodes from the ﬁnal one. And
it was hard for me to watch because it makes my head

. spin; I can never keep track of who are the tempters, who

are the boyfriends, who are the temptresses, and who are
the girlfriends.

But what confuses me the most is the whole premise of
the show.

“Hey, honey? Is it cool if we go to an island and I can
hook up with beautiful girls while you go scuba diving
with handsome men?”

“Hmm . . . let me think about it.”

“lt’1l be televised on national TV, too.”

“Well . . . ”

“Don’t worry. You can watch my transgressions, if
you want, on a portable TV set and

he has blue eyes, and he looks good in unbuttoned
Hawaiian shirts. Yet this all just made me realize my
love for you.”

“Me, too! Let’s stay together!”

I couldn’t help but wonder if Mark —— the blue polo,
khaki shorts, and birkenstock—clad host — was somewhat
disappointed by the entire conclu-

your rejected, disappointed, and
hopelessly pathetic reactions can be
visible to the entire viewing nation.”

 S  sion. Not to mention the producers.

Which brings me to the issue of re-
ality—based television shows as a

“Cool. When do we leave?”

Not only can I not understand what girlfriend would
continue seeing a guy who would ask her to do that, but
it bafﬂes me that all three couples actually stayed together
in the end.

“I’ve made some very intimate connections, both physi-
cally and emotionally, with the temptresses.”

“Yes, I’ve met a guy who is wonderful. He can swim,

LETTERS To THE EDITOR

Women’s studies article
was misleading

Dear Editor,

On Feb. 12, the Ring-tum Phi published a misleading
article by Katie Howell entitled “Women’s studies pro-
gram established.” The faculty did recently approve a
Women’s Studies concentration. The article, however,
conﬂates Women’s Studies with a completely separate,
extracurricular program promoting women and leadership.
Ms. Howell thereby misrepresents both enterprises and
propagates several factual errors. The article’s most egre-
gious mistake is to suggest that Women’s Studies will be
an exclu ive program limited to few students; Professor
Stewart, in fact, informed the reporter that this was false
before press time. The major inaccuracies are as follows:

1. Washington and Lee’s new concentration in
Women’s Studies is not modeled primarily after the paral-
lel program at the University of Richmond. We examined
curricula from many institutions, including the University
of Richmond, synthesizing the elements most appropriate

. whole. (I swear, I am like an episode
of The Simpsons. My articles never get to the point until
halfway done.)

As much as the notion of watching people get up in
the morning, ﬁght about who drank the last of the or-
ange juice, or wrestle with diversity issues confounds
me, I am definitely a reality-TV junkie. I am chemically
dependent on Real World drama. My favorite part of

Survivor is the tribal meeting wh;::n they vote someone.

off. (“Sorry, Kal, I love you. i’ou.’re the light of my life.
But I don’t want to be on the same island as you.”) My
entire apartment erupts into laughter watching people
freak out at ﬂickering lights on MTV’s new show Fear.
Nothing is more compelling than watching a motley crew
of aesthetically—pleasing people (with the required deeply
rooted emotional issues) somehow screw up living in
the garden of Eden. How can anyone be unhappy living
in the Real World Hawaii house? But they are. It speaks
volumes about the human condition that we thrive on
the non-fictional entertainment of watching people screw
up a utopia. Or maybe I am just trying to justify my ad-
dictions to these shows that are even stronger than my
addictions to Mello Yello. I can only hope that my fasci-
nations with the aforementioned programs are just an-
other form of work procrastination, and not a reﬂection
of an abnormal psychological condition.

Dean Schroer-Lamont, however, is developing a women
and leadership program based on the WILL program at
that university. We admire her efforts but must emphasize
that the academic concentration we proposed stands alone,
and doeslnot contain a “leadership area.”

2. Women’s Studies will not be taught solely by “fe—
male faculty.” Any student completing this concentration
will undertake an introductory course and a capstone semi-
nar or thesis conducted by various faculty; students will

' also pursue relevant preexisting courses in a range of dis-

ciplines. Courses offered currently or in the past by Pro-
fessors Novack (Male and Female Roles in Society) and
Velasquez (Nature of Woman and the Art of Politics), for
instance, would ﬁt the bill.

3. Dean Schroer-Lamont may suggest that students
involved in Knowledge Empowering Women Leaders reg-
ister for credits in Women’s Studies, but we know very
little about this organization nor how it “suppoit[s]” the
Women’s Studies program.

4. Most importantly, the concentration will welcome all
interested students, male and female. Dean Schroer-Lamont
may plan to build her separate program “one small group at

 

 

 

A message to the student body

Dear Editor, ‘

Last September, we wrote toall students about

the new alcohol and drug laws in the United States
and the Commonwealth of Virginia. As we return
from Washington break, we want to reiterate the
message we sent last term.

The Commonwealth of Virginia adopted a new
DUI law that requires a mandatory five-day jail term
for an individual convicted of DUI with a blood al-
cohol level of 0.20 — 0.25. If the BAC is over 0.25, a
ten—day jail term is mandated.

Federal law has imposed severe penalties for pos-
session of the so-called “date rape” drugs. Any
person who knowingly manufactures, sells, gives,
distributes, or possesses with the intent to distrib-
ute gamma—butyrolactone or butanediol, when in-
tended for human consumption, shall be guilty of a
Class 3 felony. A Class 3 felony carries a penalty of
not less than five years nor more than twenty years
of imprisonment, and a fine of up to $100,000. Also,

 

Christine Metzger

  

Y to our needs and resources. atime,”but the academic concentration, like any academic the emergence of “Club Drugs” such as Ecstasy
majororprogram, eagerly seeks wide participation. combined with national surveys that indicate in-
, _ - On the aftemoon of Sunday the 11th, Ms. Howell left creased drug use among young people have raised
    messages with each of us. Professor Stewart actually new concerns. Ecstasy is a Schedule 1 drug and
V reached Ms. Howell a couple of hours later and corrected possession carries a penalty ranging from 12 months
her confusion about the two programs. Your reporter in jail/$2500 fine to one to ten years in jail if the
E"“"""" Ed”"" Emﬂy B_a'“°_s tacked on a quote but did not rewrite the piece, as new case goes to a jury. '
Stephanie Bianco .nf . 1 1 d d W f dl d. Th . f h h Id k _
News Edmm Mm Mcnermott l orination c eary man ate . e are pro oun y is— ere is one act t at everyone s ou now.
Max smith mayed that any student would submit material that she W&L is not a sanctuary from the law. Since 1996,
It Assistant News 541"" Mike Agnello knew to be wrong for publication, especially on the front eleven W&L students have been arrested by local
0pi"i°" E‘“’°’ Ta” Am‘ F”°d°' page of an inﬂuential student newspaper. We are also authorities and charged with felony drug crimes.
Assistant Opinion Editor Brett Kirwan di b Id C H S f . .
W&Llfe Editor Alexis Yee_Gama _stur ed that a reporter wou Contact ounse rig 'er- The consequences or these students and their fami-
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin vices about an academic program. Women’s Studies is a lies and friends have been severe. Immediate with-
Last W074 E470’ Bryan Eafly rigorous discipline with a significant institutional and drawals, suspensions, denials of graduation‘, ruined
‘ _ C0,” Ed‘,"” KT“ P°"'“a_ scholarly history, and does not emanate from Counseling careers, plus the high cost of legal defenses. Most
Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden . . .
Photo Editor Mary Guy Services;would anyone make aparallel assumption about of these arrests occurred at the end of the academic
Sygﬁ Photographer Eric wechuer Environmental Studies or Medic val and Renaissance Stud— year, during the Winter or Spring Terms.
. ies? We hope that this unfortunate article does not dis— If you are struggling with alcohol or drug prob-
! _B“"”‘_“ M‘f"“3" Pm“ §°‘f°” . courage student involvement in what should be an excit— lems, seek assistance from our excellent Health Cen-
Clmdanon Director Charm Tone"! ing new interdisciplinary opportunity ter staff or counseling psychologists
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the Sincerely, SHICCTCIY, .
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Lesley Wheeler, Associate Professor of English John Comly, President of the Student Body
, University, Lexington, Virginia- The Washington and Lee Jeanine Stewart, Associate Professor of Psychology Jordan Ginsberg, Chair of the Student Judicial Council
’‘ Publicaiions Board elects the EXCCWVC Editor, but The Domnica Radulescu, Assoc. Prof. of Romance Languages David Howison, Dean of Students
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible . .
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the O
4  ALKback. hat did you do over F‘ Break?
‘ on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
, Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
’ tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
)1; Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu " "
1 http://wlu.edu/~phi “I went to the Harvard “I had good food, got a lot of sleep, “I had a blast at Mardi Gras.” “Went golﬁng in Florida with
A 1 b ‘ ' - $30 Model UN in Boston.” and had a blast with my firends.” -Maitena Moure ’04 the golfteam.”
""““ 3“ “‘‘’‘'°“ ”‘°' -MegFerrara’04 —SahirKhanna’04 —BurrDatz‘75
V

 

 

PAGE 4

C)

@112 Tiling-tum lﬂhi

PINION  

MARCH 5, 2001 _

War on drugs saves society

Vlfrth the success of the movie Traf-
ﬁc, there has been much discussion on
the merits of the Drug War and drug
legalization. In his address, Gen. Barry
McCaffrey detailed the horrors that
drugs inﬂict on those who use them
and advocated an approach of ﬁerce
enforcement coupled with treatment of
addiction. Many challenge the moral-
ity, efficacy, and sensibility of his plan
to continue the struggle to eradicate or
even signiﬁcantly reduce drug use.
What exactly have we gotten from hun-
dreds of billions of dollars and decades
of concerted effort besides a decrease
in our liberties? A

I question this call for a total and
unconditional surrender. Conservatism
has been deﬁned as a belief that human
nature has no history. In other words,
humans are in great need of traditions
and institutions that moderate our na-
ture and perpetuate civilization. Some
elements of society are so pernicious,
corrupting, and evil that civil society
turns to government to regulate them.
Drug abuse is such a problem.

Where would legalization leave us?
Those who advocate it claim that if
drugs were sold by reputable dealers,

 
 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

DRUG WARRING. During his Contact address, McCaffrey

discusses strategies to reduce drug abuse.

make no argument against age restric-
tions because children are not yet ratio-
nal actors. Tragically, this is the case for
every drug consumer. As McCaffrey
noted, there are psychoactive sub-

they Would be stances which
safer and could - - change the chem-
be med by the Right of the Aisle My of 0116.5
government. In Brett K11-wan ’()4 brain and negate

addition, the so-
cial stigma attached with drug use would
be a much more effective method of
reducing drug use than government
prohibition has ever been. The gov-
ernment would have a role treating
addicts. This faith in the free market
demands that consumers be free to
make decisions concerning what
they consume.

Unfortunately, this rosy scenario
isn’t very realistic. First of all, should
drugs be legalized and sold by “repu—
table” dealers with drug use taxed, and
in effect sanctioned, by the govem—
ment, how does that serve to create a
social stigma? Also, the ﬁ'ee market de-
pends on the ability of consumers to
make rational decisions. Libertarians

  

RETIREMENT

doesn't apply to taxes.

Social Security.

INSURANCE‘

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"

That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes
can add up to significantly more money for you-—
money you can use to supplement your pension and

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax-saving solutions—along with TIAA-CREF's
low expenses and solid history of performance——can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

one’s ability to
make rational decisions. Advocates of
legalization either are deluded or simply
don’t care that more people will become
addicted. Finally, advocacy of the Euro-
pean model wherein addicts simply be-
come wards of the state upon hitting bot-
tom is fraught with error. Our govem-
ment has no place rtmning a welfare sys-
tem for junkies.

The faults of drug legalization in no
way mean that the Drug War is perfect
either. Marijuana probably should be le-
galized. It is not physically addicting, nor
are its effects that severe. Also, the
govemment’s policy needs to be altered
to include a greater respect for the rights
accorded to citizens by the Fourth
Amendment. Ourrights are trampled upon

M u r u A L ru N n s ;__r_ri,u st ‘site 

Tax— deferred solutions
from TIAA—CREF can
help you reach your

retirement goals faster.

$ 102,068

TAX DEFEFIHAL MAKES A DIFFERENCE

by unlawful roadside searches, by
judges’ discretion in sentencing being
circumvented by legislators and pros-
ecutors, by the seizure of property, and
the reign of terror in irmer-cities created
by an ineffective drug policy. Manda-
tory minimum sentences need to be e1irni—
nated because they eliminate a judge’s
ability to carefully and fairly evaluate in-
dividual cases on their merits.

Govemment—funded treatment pro-
grams, welfare checks for addicts, and
public housing for addicts should be
eliminated. The message needs to be
sent that there are serious conse-
quences for drug use and society has
no sympathy for self-inﬂicted problems.
Finally, as McCaffrey suggested, the
crack—powder cocaine disparity needs
to be rectiﬂed.

We are never going to win the Drug
War. However, the total surrender to
armies of govemment-supported ad-
dicts that legalization represents is no
alternative. Changes need to be made,
but the best way to protect future gen-
erations from the scourge of drugs is
prohibition.

   

T_U|T|0N FlNANClNG_

Tax-deferred savings after taxes‘

$67,514 _ _

After—tax savings

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reﬂect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA—CREF account, or
reﬂect expenses.

  
  
     

per month 0

Y

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa—cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. - l'lAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products.
0 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (T IAA), New York, NY and TIAA—CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. - TIAA—CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—Co||ege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY OI/04

 

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor fa

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Ofﬁce of Admis- 
sions wishes to announce a possible opening for the positionif
of Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities include: student 
interviews, application evaluation, and recruitment travel.
Strong communication skills and demonstrated organiza- Na
tional abilities are expected. The successful candidate will _.
be both willing and able to work as part of a highly success- 

ful admissions team, yet capable of creative self-direction. if
Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid driver’s license.
All interested candidates should submit a cover letter and V \
resume, including two references, no later than Friday,
March 16, 2001. All materials should be sent to: y

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions

Ofﬁce of Admissions at
Lexington, VA 24450

CAMP COUNSELORS

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

Archery, Baseball, Basketba||,_Climblng Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, lnline-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

Camp Greylock
for Boys:

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

888-2-romaca 1-800-842-5214

. l
www_camQromaCa_c0m www.campgreyIock.com

 

 

 

MARCH 5, 2001

8 IE: Itltng-tum iﬁlri

W eezer, ()zma, Get up Kids ‘ ‘Sell Out’ ’

By Heather McDonald

4 STAFF WRITER

It was everyone’s anthem my freshman year
of high school: “If you want to destroy my
sweater, pull this thread as I walk away.” Ev-

‘-:ryone had the words memorized and every-
ne quoted it as the true, deep, insightful lyric
that we thought it was. Some of us adventur-
ous types even bought the entire “blue” al-
bum, as it is known, and memorized all the
Qlrics after that. Suddenly a band defined the
“trendy- geeky” blend that was emblematic of
the early 1990s underground style, making all
high school outcasts as cool as, well, Buddy
Holly and Mary Tyler Moore.
V I was one of the lucky few to experience
geek—rock nirvana for three hours on Friday

night. Weezer, emo/indie—pop/punk band The ’

Get Up Kids (who, may I say, rocked so damn
ﬁard it hurt) and the up-and—coming Los An-
geles band Ozma, played a sold-out show at
American University’s Bender Arena. Al-
though my friends and I drove over three
hours to get there, the car ride was worth it,
Even just to see Ozma and The Get Up Kids.
Ozma is a power—pop-rock band of young
college students (who are old friends of illus-
trious Washington and Lee senior Matt
errnan) that rocked out with originals dem-
onstrating witty and insightful lyrics,
A hummable melodies, and rockstar chords that
made even the most jaded Weezer junkies
around us bob their heads.
‘« The minute Ozma left the stage to make
room for The Get Up Kids, people in the
stands practically rushed the floor, and I
found myself unable to breathe. The crowd
yas ravenous, with small mosh pits breaking
out only to be stopped by the crush of more
fans packing themselves onto the main floor.
In addition to great punky-pop and bitter-
sweet emo lyrics, The Get Up Kids had the
l§est stage presence out of the three bands.
They talked to the crowd, wished their roadie
and keyboard player happy birthday (and
even gave them 35 E-chords instead of 35
lashes for luck).

ready for the mucho—hyped Weezer experi-
ence. The key words there were mucho-
hyped. Weezer took far too long setting up,
making fans progressively more grouchy.
They played some songs, told fans to go
buy the autographed CDs they had at the
merchandise tables, and finished up the set.
While they did play all the necessary favor-
ite songs that provoke thousands of fans to
shout lyrics back to the band, Weezer also
played three disappointing songs off the
upcoming CD. -

The stage was fun: two monitors as basket-
ball hoop backboards, mini-volleyball nets as
backdrops, and a huge “W” (complete with the
Weezer—wings) in red, white and blue lights.

show — just like a high school dance! Unfortu-
nately, merchandise was expensive, which is dis-
appointing to see with a band that has as loyal
fans — hell, I’d go as far as to describe them as
geek—rock cult members — as Weezer does.

All the tickets were sold on Yahoo!. This
tour is the ﬁrst ever consistently to sell out
solely on the Internet. I’m not sure if that was
the cause for Weezer’s titling of the “Sell Out
tour,” or if they titled it for their unexcited at-
titudes on stage — denying the love of the
worn-out and war—tom audience.

For a medium-sized venue, this show had
all the makings of the original Lollapallooza or
HFS—tival. I saw at least three people, corn-
pletely unconscious, passed forward and

courtesy www.weezer.net

INDIE ROCK ALERT. Members of the Weezer cult should leave their sweaters at home for Weezer’s “Sell Out” tour.

came on, the crowd was starting to tire, al-
though in a blissful, sweaty, I’ve—reached-
geek—rock nirvana way. I would have made
the journey simply to see the two opening
hands because I enjoyed them that much,
which is often a rare occurrence with lesser-
known opening bands.

Honestly, Weezer left me wanting more, and
not in a good way. They lacked the chutzpah I
expected from their music and image. Nonethe-
less, it was a rockstar show and Icouldn’t irnag—
ine a better way to spend a Friday night. Two
of my friends - being in the Weezer cult —
were in utter awe of the experience, so maybe I
missed something. Whether or not Weezer had
the spirit I expected, I got to see Weezer, The

wd was Get Up Kids and Ozma in a sold-out show!

There was even a confetti-drop at the end of the pulled out by security. By the time Weezer

Study Outside
  Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute sponsors
an off-campus study program that
combines coursework in religion,
philosophy, literature and art: with
baekp asking, climbing, biking

and paddling.

  
  
  
 
     
 
 

   

   

      

When they left the stage, the cro

- A
B‘.

       

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session: Aug. 27 -Dec. 10

’Visit the CRT website to request an appiﬁtatzion.

astle Rock Institute

PO. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 .828-862-3759
wwW.cas1:le - rock.org

  
       
       
   
   
   
    
 
   

T AT .73’. X 6 IS
Kz4RA(9/CENIGHT. If You HAVEN’T
  BEEN HERE You DON’T KNOW WHAT
Y0u’VE BEEN MISSING!

You DON’T ﬂA\/ETO SING... BUT
You CAN.
  You ooN’T ,1_£AV_E_TO ’DANCE...BuT
  You CAN. 
You DON’T ﬂA_v;To HAVE rum...
BUT IF You ooN’T IT‘S YOUR

EAuLT.I

, 6 wee.-ks,.6 credits, as"low as $3,000 (based on typical costs
oftuition, r,oom,& board, books, anct e_stimated_airf_are) » ~  ‘

Term 1 : -May 21-Jurre‘2Q"- Term 2: July’ 2-A'ujgustj1jO 
vvww.outreach.hawaii.,ed.u - toll-free 1 (800) 8'62-6,6‘28v
University of Hawai‘i at Manda, Summer~Session‘s. 1- ,_ -

an

 

 

PAGE 6

Ellis: {Ring-tum iﬂhi

S PORTS

MARCH 5, 2001»

Generals jump out to 7-1 start

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball
team opened an optimistic regular sea-
son with games over the Washington
Holiday, racing to an impressive 7-1
start and a doubleheader sweep in Old
Dominion Athletic Conference play.

The Generals opened the season
with an exciting 6-5 victory over
Oglethorpe on Feb. 19. Sophomore
Bobby Littlehale drove in the garne-
winning run on a ninth inning single,
and sophomore co—captain Michael
Hanson led W&L with a _3—for—4 per-
formance at the plate.

Coach Jeff Stickley’s squad also
won three games in two days from
Muhlenberg. On Feb. 24, pitching car-
ried the day for the Generals. Senior
co-captain David Sigler and freshman
Dan Kagey each tossed shutouts in
8-0 and 1-0 victories. Muhlenberg only
tallied four hits on the day.

The following day, W&L posted a
9-5 victory over the Mules. Hanson
led the Generals as he tied the school
record for hits in a game, going 5-for-
5. Littlehale and sophomore Brian
Gladysz each homered in the victory.

    

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

CONTACT. Sophomore Kyle Droppers connects against Villa
Julie in the Generals’ 3-1 win at home on 'l1iesday.

W&L’s only defeat over the break
came at the hands of Emory. The
Generals left 17 runners stranded,
including leaving the bases loaded
in both the fifth and seventh innings
ofa 10-3 loss.

Luckily, due to a 3-0 week follow-
ing the break, that defeat has remained
the team’s sole loss on the season.

Freshman pitcher Peter Dean
pitched a solid game, allowing only
four hits and one earned run to beat
Villa Julie 3-1 on Tuesday after-
noon. Classmate Bryan Mulhern
pitched the last two innings to
wrap up the save.

W&L struck quickly, taking a 1-0
lead when Gladysz drove in

   

Upcoming events in Washington and Lee athletics

Littlehale on a first inning single.
Dean got all the run support he
would need when sophomore Kyle
Droppers singled home junior Matt
Kozora in the third inning, giving
the Generals a 2-0 lead.

Early run support helped the
Generals in a doubleheader sweep
of Emory and Henry to open con-
ference play.

In game one, Sigler beneﬁted from
a ﬁve—run first inning to cruise to a
complete—ga.ine shutout, 9-0. Hanson
hit a leadoff home run and Gladysz,
Droppers, Mulhem, and Kagey each
drove in runs during the outburst. In
the victory, ﬁve W&L batters tallied
at least two hits.

The second game was much closer,
as Kagey and Dean combined to shut
the door on the Wasps. Kagey picked
up his third win of the season, giving
up two runs, one of which was earned,
over six innings. All of the General’s
runs came in the third inning. Hanson
doubled home two runs and then
scored on an error.

The Generals hope to capitalize on
a quick 7-1 start and continue their
success when they host Southern Vir-
ginia at 3 p.m. on Wednesday.

k

Questions, comments, or suggestions? Contact 
Jeremy Franklin at phi@wlu.edu or X4452. J

Men’s tennis falls to Radford -  

Baseball Men’s Temiis _ _
Marcia southern Virginia 3:oop.m. March7 Hampden—Sydney 3:00p.m. Generals competitive, but
March 10 3tG11i11°0fd(2) 12100P-1T1- March 9 Christopher Newport 3:00p.m. . . . .
Men,SLamSse Mmhlo woos,“ 12.00pm fall to Division I Highlanders
March 10 at Gettysburg 1:00 pm , _ By Jeremy Franklin
Women s Temns S E

women’s Lacrosse March 7 Hollins 4:30 p.m. PORTS DITOR
 :30 ;ta1::1r:1ln;l_Mac0n  PE‘ Mafch 11 Denim“ 11300 3-m~ The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team fell to 1-1

P ' P’ ' A on the season with a 5-2 loss to Division I Radford at
Women’s Swimming Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track home‘ on Thursday.
Mar. 8- 10 at NCAA Championships TBA Mar. 9-10 at NCAA Championships TBA Freshman Graham Nix, playing as the fourth seed, de-

feated Radford’s Noufayl Nejdi 6-3, 1-6, 6-4 for W&L’s
only singles win. .

Nix and classmate Austin Kim pulled out an 8-1 win
over Nejdi and Rashid Lamrissi in, doubles competition.
Freshman K.C. Schaefer and junior Zac Vuncaimon edged
Daniel Vajdic and Khalid Lhamidi, 8-6, in number-three
doubles competition.

“I thought we all were really ready,” Nix said of
W&L’s performance. “We knew they were a good team.
We went out there, we fought hard, but we just_came up
a little bit short.”

Top seed Rhys James dropped a 6-3, 6-1 decision
to the Highlanders’ Faycal Rhalazi, and second seed
Andrew Roberts was defeated in straight sets by
Bartlo Oosthuizen. Kim, the three-seed in singles, and
fifth seed Schaefer fell in three sets to Lamrissi and
Vajdic. Sixth-seeded Chris Sorenson dropped a two-

For up-to-date information on W&L athletics, including scores, schedules, and statistics,
visit the Washington and Lee Sports Information Website at wvvw.w|u.edu/sports/

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

J AVA AT

coi=i=Ei=.peop|eMusicmore

THE GHQ  

March 12 - Open Mike
March 19 - An evening with Charene Jones
March 26 - Mindbending productions
April 2 - Gospel Night with Joyful Noise

tonight...

Co-sponsored by SAB

set decision to Lhamidi.

Rhalazi and Oosthuizen edged James and Roberts 8-6

in the number-one doubles match.

According to Nix, playing a Division I school early in
the season will only help the Generals as they return to

Division IH competition.

“This deﬁnitely gave us a lot of conﬁdence,” Nix said.
“We’re thinking this is the best team we’ll play all year.
When we go against teams like Emory and Averett, we
know that we have the ability to beat them.”

The Generals’ match against Emory and Henry sched-

Mentz, Babst receive ODAC honors y

W&L sports roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Junior Jessica Mentz became the
first player in Washington and Lee
women’s basketball history to be
named to the All-Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference First Team this week.

Mentz, who averaged 20.7 points
and 10.1 rebounds a game in 2000-01,
ﬁnished second in the ODAC in scor-
ing and free throw percentage (.829)
and third in field goal percentage
(.520). The forward’s 1,223 points are
already a school record, and her 666
rebounds are second all-time at W&L.

Mentz’s 37 points in W&L’s 80-69
win over Eastern Mennonite on Feb.
7 are a school record, one of 15 that
the junior holds.

Classmate Megan Babst joined
Mentz in receiving All-ODAC honors
with an Honorable Mention recogni-
tion. Babst scored 15.7 points a game
and led the conference by averaging
11.9 boards. Babst narrowly trails
Mentz on the career rebounding list
with 663.

The Generals finished ninth in

the ODAC with a 6-14 record, 8-16
overall.

Golfers travel to
North Carolina for
two invitationals

The Washington and Lee golf team
began its spring season with a third-
place finish in the Guilford/Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Invita-
tional in Raleigh on Feb. 23, following
that up with an 18th—place showing at
the Pfeiffer/Pine Needles Invitational
on Feb. 26-27.

The Generals’ score of 320 in the
Guilford/ODAC Invitational placed
W&L behind conference powerhouse
Guilford (290) and Lynchburg (309).
Hampden—Sydney and Roanoke
rounded out the ﬁeld by tying for
fourth at 323.

Juniors Curtis Bethea and Kyle
Ulep tied for ninth by turning in scores
of 79 to pace the Generals. Sophomore
David Haase placed 15th with a score
of 80, and classmate Chip Campbell
tied for 18th by shooting an 82.

W&L then placed 18th of 24 teams
with a combined 621 in the two-day

I
photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

BACKHAND A BLUR. Junior Zac Vuncannon
returns a shot in the Generals’ 5-2 loss to
Division I Radford on Thursday.

uled for Feb. 3, which would have opened Old Dominion Y
Athletic Conference competition for W&L, was cancelled.
W&L will now begin the ODAC season at 3 p.m. on
Wednesday against Hampden—Sydney at home.

Pfeiffer/Pine Needles Invitational in ,
Southern Pines, N.C. Guilford shot a
589 to win the event, and Roanoke
tied for 16th at 618.

Campbell’s score of 150 led the,
Generals, followed by sophomore
Chuck Green at 155, Bethea at 156,
and Ulep at 160.

W&L will compete in the Ferrumi
Spring Invitational on March 12-13.

Mueller competes in
NCAA Division III ‘
Championships

Washington and Lee freshman Joe
Mueller lost in the fourth round of’
the NCAA Division III Wrestling
Championships consolation bracket,
falling to Kings College’s Jason‘
Schlingman on Saturday.

The l84—pound Mueller was the
lone grappler to represent the Gener-
als in the competition, which took‘
place on Friday and Saturday in Wa-
terloo, Iowa. Mueller was disquali-
ﬁed from his only match on the first
day of the championships, forfeiting?
his match against Lawrence’s Andy
Kazik.

 

p \«

 

1 MARCH 5, 2001 5

C1112 ilting-tum lﬂlii

SPORTS  

PAGE 7

Lacrosse team wins home,
“ road openers of 2001

Soaring Eagles.

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

«Men blast Elmira, top shington

“It was a good tuneup,” Hays said of the win over the

The Generals traveled to Chesteitown, Md. to face sixtl1-
ranked Washington College
jumped to a 2-0 lead, but with 17 seconds left in the first

on Saturday. Washington

quarter, senior Pope Hackney scored off an assist from

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team began
their regular season with wins over Elmira and Washing-

ton College last week.

with 148 goals and 86 assists.

The Soaring Eagles started the scoring, but the Gener-
I als’ defense would not let them see the net again until the
last seven minutes of the contest. Senior goaltender Wes
Hays, who played three quarters before being relieved
by freshman Ansel Sanders and senior Bo Vaughn, made
' four saves and allowed just one goal.

Freshman Matt Fink and senior Pope Hackney tallied
three goals apiece. Juniors Andrew Barnett and John Moore

and senior Bernie Norton contributed goals as well.

I Generals hammer
Sweet Briar, fall

_ to Franklin and

Marshall at home
By Jeremy Franklin

it SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee opened its
season with an Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference win over Sweet

‘‘ Briar on Wednesday and a non-
conference loss to Franklin and
Marshall on Saturday in women’s

_lacrosse action.

1 In the Generals’ 19-0 victory over

Sweet Briar on Wednesday, freshman
. midﬁelder Lee Wheeler and sopho-

-{more attacker Leslie Bogart contrib-

 uted four goals apiece.

1.’ 7 W&L outshot the Vixens 40-3 on

T ,the afternoon as freshmen goalkeep-

iWomen win ODAC

* invite, while men

, place in Grove City
5 By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s swimming team won the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Championship over the Washington
Holiday, and the men’s team placed
second in the Grove City Invitational.

Sophomore Blair Huffman was
named the ODAC Swimmer of the

q_ Year in women’s competition.
Huffman also won seven events to
be named the Atlantic States Swim-
mer of the Meet.

Sophomore Kelli Austin also

The Generals opened the season with a 16-3

, trouncing of Elmira on Feb. 25. Senior Matt Dugan
set a new school record for points with a five-goal,
three-assist afternoon. He now has 235 career points

period.

Norton to put the Generals on the board.

Hays held off Washington for the rest of the game,
making a total of 12 saves, as W&L came from behind to
pull out a 4-2 win.

“Our defense played well, as usual,” Hays said. “Most
of the shots were from outside.”

Norton tied the score with less than a minute left in the
half, and the two squads battled through a scoreless third

Hackney scored the game-winner in the ﬁnal quarter
off an assist from Barnett, and the senior put another in
for good measure to ﬁnish off Washington.

“It was a little more than we expected,” Norton said of
Washington’s challenge. “We took them for granted.”

The Generals will travel to face rival Gettysburg on

ers Joanna Perini and Annie Tompkins
combined for the Generals’ first shut-
out since the 1997 season.

Freshman Kelly Taffe added three
goals and three assists from her
midﬁeld position, and senior attacker
Liz Borges notched two goals and
two assists.

W&L dropped its 2001 home
opener to Franklin and Marshall on
Saturday, a 12-6 decision. Diplo-
mats Megan Bermingham and Laura
Fine scored three goals apiece in
the win.

Although the Generals possessed
a 31-20 advantage over Franklin and
Marshall in shots, the Diplomats were
able to break open a 6-4 halftime lead
to secure the victory.

Senior attacker Ellen Ritsch scored
a pair of goals to lead W&L, and Taffe
added a goal and an assist.

The Generals face non-conference ’ ‘

on Thursday.

earned a first-place ﬁnish in the 100-
yard freestyle. The Generals placed
first out of 14 teams at the invitational
tournament.

While the women were in Radford
at the ODAC championships from
Feb. 16-18, the men’s team was in
Grove City, Pa. The team ﬁnished in
second place in the Feb. 15- 17 event,
topped only by Division II
Westminster.

Senior Colin Hayes earned a meet
and pool record time of 1:53.17 in the
200—yard butterﬂy. The 200—yard med-
ley relay team, consisting of Hayes,
classmate Mike Miraglia, sophomore
Brett Burns, and freshman Eric Ritter,
also broke a 12-year-old school record
by winning in a time of 1:36.59.

Ritter also broke a school record
by placing second in the 100-yard

Saturday. W&L lost to Gettysburg in the regular season
last year, but defeated them in the NCAA playoffs.
“It’s always a real heated game,” Norton said.

I
  Women’s lacrosse splits opening contests

defender for control of the ball in Saturday’s contest. The Generals lost, 12-6.

«Swimmers successful at postseason events

backstroke with a time of 52. 14.

Hayes and Ritter will both compete
in the NCAA Division HI Swimming
Championships starting on March 15
in Buffalo, N.Y. Hayes posted NCAA
“B” cut qualifying times in the 100 and
200—yard butterﬂy events at the Grove
City Invitational. He will also swim in
the 200-yard IM. -

“It’s a big meet,” said Hayes, who
has already been to the NCAAs twice
and is looking to ﬁnish in the top eight
in his group. “There’s lots of fast
people there.”

Ritter qualified for the NCAA
Championships with his win in the
100-yard backstroke at the Grove City
Invitational. His time of 1:54.99 in the
200—yard backstroke put Ritter in the
NCAA “B,” and he will also compete
in the 50-yard freestyle.

lTrack teams run at ODAC meet

" Generals optimistic

about approaching
_ outdoor season

4
By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

J‘ At the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Indoor Track Champion-
ship, held Feb. 24 at VMI’s Cormack
Fieldhouse, the Washington and Lee

V men’s indoor track team placed fourth
of five teams, while the women’s
squad finished ﬁfth of ﬁve teams.

The men’s squad ended the com-

.’ petition with 49 points, while the
women’s squad garnered 28 points.

1 Despite their low finishes, both W&L
teams ﬁnished the winter season with

5,; promise for the future.

1 The men’s fourth-place show-
ing demonstrates the team’s steady
improvement. _

it» “We played to our potential, im-
proving by one position from last
year’s championships,” men’s coach

Norris Aldridge said.

Despite early season struggles,
senior Marc Watson led the way for
the Generals, winning the 55-meter
dash in a time of 6.56 seconds and
placing sixth in the 200-meter dash
at 23.64.

Freshman Andrew Schorr ﬁnished
second in the 3,000-meters with a time
of 9:17.77 and fourth in the 1,500-
meters at 4:24.41.

In the field events, junior Mike
Hegg captured third place in the 55-
meter high hurdles with a time of 8.42
seconds, while sophomore teammate
Chris Sullivan turned in a fourth-place
ﬁnish in the long jump.

According to Aldridge, by adding
“more depth in distance races and
young contributors in throwing
events,” the team will continue to im-
prove in the spring.

The women’s squad also stands
to gain from their ODAC Champion-
ship performance.

“Our women competed against

much stronger teams with poise and
spirit,” coach John Turner said.

Rumiing her personal record in the
1500—meters with a time of 5:1 1 for a
second place finish, sophomore
Burke Duncan also took second in
the 3,000-meters.

Senior Jessica Parrillo captured
third place in the 3,000 Meters with
a time of 1 1:00.22. Senior Amy Calce
also ended her collegiate indoor ca-
reer by finishing fifth in the long
jump.

In the spring, the women will ben-
eﬁt from the addition of three juniors:
Sarah Schmidt, the two-time ODAC
javelin champion, high jumper Megan
Babst, and distance runner Gretchen
Tencza. _

With these new additions and the
returning winter competitors, Turner
believes the outdoor squad will en-
joy a “combination of speed and
spirit that will add to the already
hard—working, dedicated, and enthu-
siastic team.”

 

courtesy of Sports Information
QUICK STARTER. Senior Pope Hackney scored

six goals in the Generals’ first two games.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
Opponempen-um Onthe mad at4p_m_ UNDIPLOMATTCZ Sophomore Sarah Janowitz (left) battles a Franklin and Marshall

  

_ Ring-tum Phi File Photo
STRONG SHOWING. The men’s swimming team
placed second at the Grove City Invitational.

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT

10 student apartments
available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enjoy country living
at its finest.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm
at 540-463-6575
or 540-463-2868.

 

 

 

PAGE 8

Because having
friends just ain’t
what it used to be

i   (J11: iﬂtng-tum lﬁhi

 

MARCH 5, 200»

n11-annual conversation with Clinton

Last Word Editor: First off, how is re-
tirement treating you?

Clinton: <Laughing> I wouldn’t really
call it retirement per se: it’s more like I’ve
started a new chapter in my life. As I’ve said
before, if I could have run for a third term I
would have. I still have a lot to offer to the
world and years left of public service. But, I
don’t think too many of my colleagues in
Congress would have appreciated it.

LWE: Why do you suppose that is?

Clinton: Well, I think you might just have
to ask them about that. It seemed as if they
were out to get me from the first day I took
office. Lately the news has been filled with
coverage of Bush’s honeymoon with Con-
gress. Well, let me be the first one to say
that the honeymoon I got with Congress
was worse than the one that I had with my
wife — which was pretty bad.

LWE: Were you surprised that Con-
gress did not let you depart from office
peacefully?

Clinton: No, I wouldn’t have expected
anything less from them. All I did was ex-
ercise a constitutionally granted power in
the manner that I thought appropriate, ac-
cept a few hundred thousand dollars worth
of gifts from my friends, and take a few
presidential souvenirs to help me remem-
ber the job. I gave eight of the best years
of my life to serve the country, and the

only thing Congress showed me was in- ,

gratitude.
LWE: What impact do you think this is

having on your wife ’s career as Senator?

Clinton: Well, she’s just going to have
to deal with the controversy, because I
doubt that it’s going to be going away soon.
. . especially with her brothers receiving
massive amounts of money for their “con—
sultation fees.” But, of course, I have no
comment about that. . . except to say, that
while a man cannot be forced to testify
against his wife, there are some individuals
who feel that their civic duty is greater than
their matrimonial duty.

LWE: Wouldn’t you be implicated in
those charges as well, if criminal charges
were pressed?

Clinton: <Laughing> They call me
“Slick Willy” for more than one reason.

LWE: Uh, okay, Mr. President. What
do you feel is your greatest legacy as Presi-
dent of the United States?

Clinton: I would hope that my greatest
legacy would be the United States’ new po-
sition as a global good citizen. Throughout
my presidency, I endeavored to usher in a
new era of international peace and good-
will by deploying American troops all over
the world at every opportunity possible.
And although I did not invent the Internet
like my lackluster, backstabbing former vice
president, I take some credit for helping to
usher in the greatest sustained period of
economic growth that our country has ever
seen.

LWE: So, what’s next for you?

Clinton: Well, I wouldn’t mind taking

the next couple of months off from public
life to write, enjoy some rest and relaxation,
and address a few legal matters that need to
be sorted out. It will also give me more time
to devote to my favorite hobby.

LWE: And what is that? ,

Clinton: The collectible card game,
Magic: The Gathering. It was the only ben-
eﬁcial thing that Al Gore added to my presi-
dency. Al got us to start playing it when
he’d sneak on to Air Force One, until he got
“too cool” for it —— after he started playing
Dungeons & Dragons.

He, Reno, Rubin, and Shalala always used
to stay up late in the executive parlor playing
it —they called themselves the “Courageous
Cabinet Companions” <snickers>. They
don’t lmow ‘what they are missing anymore
with the newest expansion sets.

LWE: What— ?

Clinton: Well you see they have differ-
ent kinds of cards that you have to buy that
give you different powers for your spell-
battles. . . let’s just say Al wasn’t any better at
being a wizard than-he was at being a presi-
dential candidate.

LWE: Mr. President, could we per-
haps hear about your upcoming book?

Clinton: <Crestfallen> I’ in actually writing
two books. The ﬁrst is a compilation of mem-
oirs from growing up as a boy in Arkansas, to
my years as an activist, governor, and presi-
dent. It’s entitled Clinton: Conquering
Camelot Contritely.

The second book I’m co—writing with ac-

tor/director Ron Jeremy. It is a fantasy
novel about three college cheerleaders
who are sent on a magical quest by a State
Highway Patrolman for the mythical Rod

. of Klinton to save the free world. There is
even a movie deal in the works.

LWE: That sounds fascinating. Do
you have any final thoughts?

Clinton: Well, I would just like to thank
the American people for allowing me to
serve them all these years and say that I
intend to stay active and in the news.

courtesy http://search.news.yahoo.com

JUST CHILLIN’. Clinton, basking in
the glory of retirement.

Are you having problems with your computer, printer or other device?
Can’t seem to get on the Internet or network? Perhaps you could use
soine help or friendly advice. CALL:

   

P.C. Assistance, Inc.
We are ready to help or advise you on
your computer support needs or

questions.

  

Owned locally

Affordable, competitive rates
Experience with the W&L computing environment

Call today! Do not be frustrated another minute!

463-6887

l/Vhat can I help you with today?

  
  

i 221 South Main Street 
if Lexington, Virgina  
       to, Inc. .  
  Interested in black and white photography,
processing, and printing?      
Rent Andre Studio Inc.
(540) 463-2139

  

 

“In a duel, there is only
I one instant winner,
at questiapromo.com ’*

there are thousands?’ ,

Lg,   " F

For a chance to instantly win a

Del|® Laptop, Handspring Visors,” _

messenger bags and more, go
to questiapromo.coml

Qunxlu .s an onion mm. dcolgnod to run. you ......(n ma
.,... ,.,..,,. An menma scholarly («imam um mum: in ﬂee
, , ,. sun mm or back: andjouuul nudes. My»--Imkinoivom iwm
gain/. _ _ 4. m... or mu mzhadinq . povevl\rl!kIrI-
, ’V///% to own A...
'9“. - - - rchmg ilnun. mwiqmu man.» and mugln note
 :2-b-Imus. mu m.n..u¢ foofnolivw ma miogvaprn...
' aunL/////

MDIAVPES "“‘““ "
57 A, )3 Al l" uncu-

 :;-.:~.~:.... :1.-.~:~.-   Questias” is the newonline ’
 '"""" """‘“""“ service designed to help p
students write better papers, ‘ —

faster and easier.

AD6mUs/P|ﬂllolIIM],nuMlX/Qlhﬂlfhwlkﬂmbfli/Ctﬁﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁwdfl
Tool/Pl~lEY.HJl9(’U1O'Ml0OfI1nl/CﬂhdU|

questﬂar

Better Papers. Fasten“

usl be legal 2 ‘S. _
ning Dell laptop col

 

