  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

ﬂrCi')
ah $77; 75‘:
.  R551

JAMES G.
wAsuiNamN at LEI-1 UNRVERSW
g_*,.;:\':rﬁ*;TO!i£. VA 

LEYBURN LIBRARY

0V 072000

  

  
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
 
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
    
  
 

 

 

   
   

   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

   

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

VVEIGHING THE EVIDEN .: the female break-out session lead by Koestner:

 

date rape and sexual assault,” junior Sam
Langholz, the Contact vice—chair who introduced
Koestner, said.

Life Co-sponsor and Health Educator Jan
Kaufman agreed.

 

ton and Lee about the possibility of being booked
here as well.

She was co-sponsored by Contact, LIFE,
Women’s Forum, the Sigma Phi Epsilon Frater-
nity, the Panhellenic Council, and the NCAA.

3
V, M5 or or
no : I3
‘ C ' 9- -L
j K
R WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERs1'rY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER
VOLUME 103, N0. 13 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2000
' New alcohol task force launched
a. ,. 3* '  ' By Mike Agnello
g ASSISTANT-NEWS ED1r0R

President John Elrod announced the creation of a
permanent alcohol task force during his Report to the
Parents Saturday.

The committee consists of three chairs: sophomore

ll Will Coffman, Director of University Health Services
l Dr. Jane Horton, and Physics Professor Tom Williams,

. all recommended by Dean of Students David Howison

1 and approved by President Elrod. The members will

 4 address the problem of alcohol at Washington and Lee

*" and make policy recommendations to the admir1istra—
tion. Howison said he thinks the inclusion of the differ-
ent university community members will produce pro-

‘. ductive solutions.

“The idea is to bring students, faculty, and staff

p members together to address what is clearly a major

5 problem at W&L,” Howison said.

I’ Howison said he deliberately chose chairs from each

; I of these three groups, and that he has high hopes for

 t the committee.

3 “I chose the people I did because they’re all re-
spected members of the university community and care
very much about this issue,” he said, adding that other

3" ll members will be chosen later.

The task force, originally Horton’s idea, had been in
the planning stages for months. University Health Edu-
cator Jan Kaufman said the announcement came early

1 because of the recent deaths of W&L students Adam
Burchett and Kristin Shelton in a car accident. Although

‘ toxicology reports have not yet been released, it is

j speculated that alcohol may have been a factor in the

 , accident. According to the Oct. 25 issue of the Trident,

 ‘ Virginia State Trooper William Murphy said he suspects

; excessive speed was a major contributing factor.

l, « . .. “Encouraging better lifestyle choices is not enough.

v photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor . . it’s hard for individuals to make healthy decisions

3 1 BIG PLANS: President Elrod addresses the assembled parents while Dean Howison looks on. SEE ‘C0 E’ ON PAGE 2

 Veterans Memorial to be unveiled Thursday

 ”"’ ' ~ . ~ Histolic Lﬁxin nF0lIl1d3Ii0n. would hel the entire communit reco —

 K By Latrll.-lsl SlOl(€S mdT:1:l::Ignt;::; will march down Main Despite ohjzctions some had about njze [hosepcont_1'jbutions_ y g

 Sm” WRITER Street from the Stonewall Jackson Cemetery Size ahd placemeht’ Parsons was Pleased “I mink about how Towafding it is not

Local veterans will have the chance to to the memorial. Guest speaker Sgt. Maj. A1 with the  desigh °f the memorial‘ only for Votorans because the Crowd is
remember and honor their fellow service- Hockaday, USMC, (Ret.) will give the dedi- _ “It Provides a focus and helps edh' ohooringa but its good for speotators be‘
"‘ men at the Veterzms Memorial’s dedica- cation. ._. Cate folks to ‘ho Contributions of Vol‘ C3115‘? Poollle hawwanted to honor tho
tion ceremony on Nov. 9. Wreaths will be placed by representa- erahs °V‘_h the years*” he Said‘ Amoﬁoan Veterans and not known how
“The memorial is for all Rockbridge tives of the largest contributors to the Hopklhs thhhght that the Parade to do it,” Hopkins said-
County veterans, past, present and fu— $125, 000 memorial. Hopkins is Com- '  ' I‘ I I W  i '

, , ture,” said Lt. Col. Robert Hopkins, USAF, mander of VFW Post 1499, which contrib-

‘ (Ret). The memorial is located outside the uted $50,000 in matching funds.

‘ .‘ Rockbridge County Court House on Main Rockbridge County and the City of Lex-

V Street. ington were respectively the second and

 Hopkins, a veteran, organized the pa- third largest contributors. The remainder

 ‘ rade and dedication service, which begins of donations came from private and busi-

, at 3:30 p.m. on Thursday, two days be- ness donations.

" fore the actual Veteran’s Day. Frank Parsons, veteran and retired

'2 Hopkins has arranged for a varied pro- W&L faculty member, convinced Wash-  ..... , .

7;‘. .‘ gram, including overﬂying ﬁghter jets, to ington and Lee to contribute as well.

3 commemorate the occasion. “I used the pitch that it wouldn’t be

 Veterans will march by decades behind very nice not to get a gift from an insti-

l banners displaying the military conﬂicts tution so named for two great veter-

} in which they were involved. The- second, ans,” Parsons said.

 ‘ third and fourth graders from Waddell and Parsons is a member of the Veterans Me-

Central Elementary Schools will walk be- morial Committee, which has been planning
side them carrying American ﬂags pro- this project for the last two and a half years.
vided by the Veterans of Foreign Wars. They had to compromise with the Kappa Al-

‘ Marching bands and color guards from pha Association, whose deed speciﬁed that
Parry McCluer and Rockbridge County no structure would ever block the building.
High Schools, Virginia Military Institute, Several other agencies were involved in the V _ _
and the Virginia Women’s Institute for planstoo,includingtheLexingtonHiston'cSo— , _ photo bf Emily Bames/Exwmve Editor
Leadership will participate. VMI will send ciety, Architecture Review Board, Lexington S“R_°””E”‘ the “W Veterans M°“‘°"3' “"11 ""“‘a'“ “no” °°"°'

-. 0 acompany of l00to 150 cadets,abugler, Downtown Development Association and mm] the Thursday sorﬁce and Parade-
K t k   t ' t d t  
, oes ner spea s on agarns a e rape
By Matthew MCDenIiOtt “I thought Katie’s program was very effec— “Sharing costs was important,” Kaufman said.

 NEWS EDITOR tive,” she said. “She raised interest. . .in a very “I also think collaborative efforts increased at-

: sensitive way, giving information, debunking tendance.”

 ‘ Katie Koestner, founder of Campus Outreach Ser- myths, and raising awareness.” Many think Koestner’s speech was relevant.
vices and a date rape awareness educator, recounted Afterwards the audience broke up to discuss “Rape is always a threat to women atW&L,”
her past sexual assault to students and faculty as- a case described by attorney and risk manage- Director of Security Mike Young said.
sembled forthe“He Said/She Said”Contactlect11reon ment consultant Brett Sokolow. He led the ma.le’s There have been seven cases of reported
Oct.3l. group while Koestner directed the female’s. sexual assault in the past few years, he said.

if a “What happened to me shouldn’t happen to any- , “The break-out session was thought-provok— Young advises women to be aware of their
one,”she said“Whatwouldittakeforacampus—wide ing and brought about a lot of serious discus— surroundings and men to realize that “no” means
movement to stand up and say, ‘No rnore’?” sion,” Langholz said. “no.” Both need to remember that “excessive -

; During her speech “the entire audience was Koestner, alreadyischeduled to speak at the alcohol use is nearly always involved in sexual

7 ‘ thinking deeply about the issues surrounding Virginia Military Institute, approached Washing- assault incidents.”

A victim of sexual assault should immediately
inform Campus Security or the Lexington Police.
Rape or sexual assault of any kind, “ Young
said, “is a terrible crime. . . we need the help of all
of our students to stop this from happening here.”

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂltt

November 6, 2000

  
     

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

Elite {Ring-tum lﬁlii

  NEWS

NOVEMBER 6, 2000

THE: VVORLD

 

Mehul Srivastava
STAFF WRITER

Plane crash in Taiwan

After the tragic plane crash in Taiwan — in which 81 of the
179 passengers on board Flight SQ 006 were killed when the
pilot mistakenly tried to take off from a closed runway — mourn-
ers gathered and prayed together at the crash site on Friday
night.

Singapore Airlines has accepted full responsibility for the
accident, and announced a compensation of close to $400,000
per victim to “help families through this terrible period by of-
fering compensation without delay,” as a Singapore Airlines
spokesman put it.

The airport authorities explained that the pilot went on to a
runway marked “5R—23L ” rather than “SL-23R,” due to bad
visibility and weather. The runway was closed off and covered
with equipment, some of which the plane hit as it tried to take
off.

Before last week’s accident, Singapore Airlines had never
had a deadly crash in its 28-year history. In 1997, a plane oper-
ated by its subsidiary, SilkAir, crashed in Indonesia, killing 104
passengers and crew members.

Ebola Virus spreads

The death toll in Uganda’s Ebola outbreak went up to 90 on
Saturday, as three more people succumbed to the easily trans-
rriitted and extremely deadly virus. The deaths were in Gulu, in
northern Uganda, where the outbreak begun. Recently, how-

    

Tl-TISS VVEEK

ever, a soldier recently died of the disease in Mbarara, towards
the south, conﬁrming fears that the government had not been
able to stop the virus from spreading.

Meanwhile health workers disinfected cofﬁns before they
were buried, and people in Gulu stopped shaking hands and
wore facemasks to work.

The virus in Uganda has been identiﬁed as Ebola Sudan,
which was first discovered in Sudan in 1979. Ebola, which is
spread by bodily contact, can cause severe hemorrhagic fever
and is often fatal.

The virus’s early symptoms are similar to those of ﬂu and
upset stomach —— a parallel that has led to many false reports.
No one knows where the virus lives between outbreaks or how
the first person in an outbreak contracts it.

Palestinian/Israeli peace talks proceed

Authority President Yasser Arafatand Israeli Prime Minister
Ehud Barak should arrive in Washington, D.C. this Thursday
for further talks with U.S. President Bill Clinton.

This announcement comes after ﬁve weeks of Mid Eastern
violence, which killed 185, all but 17 of whom were Palestinians
or other Arabs.

These proposed peace talks derive from the recent Egyptian
summit in Sharm el—Sheikh. Since that emergency summit, for
weeks Clinton has been trying to hold meetings with Arafat and
Barak. - ' 1

Dan Meridor, head of the Israeli Foreign Defense Committee,

, told CNN that Arafat must make a public call for Palestinians to

stop their violent protests.
There was one last chance, he said, "to stop violence and go
back to the (negotiating) table I hope it will succeed ”

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

 

JAVA AT
co|=i=EEpeopleMus|cmore

THE GHQ

by david mamet

directed by zeenie ginwalla
a senior thesis project

TWO GREAT SHOWS IN REPERTORY

LENFEST CENTER
540/463-8000

JOHNSON THEATRE *

TICKETS AND INFORMATION

by jaston williams, joe sears
and ed howard .
directed by francis mcwilliams

a senior thesis project

 
    

starring ryan truax and blair mitchell

dec. 1, 2, 4 &6 at 8 p.m.

dec. 2 - 2 p.m.
dec. 3 & 7 - 8 p.m.
dec. 5 - 9 p.m.

COMMYITEE

when the environment promotes high-risk drinking,”
Kaufman said.

Kaufman added that although the university has
used task forces in previous years to deal with the
alcohol issue, she has higher expectations of this
one.

“Education alone is not the answer. . . I hope this
[task force] will be one of action,” she said.

According to the annual Winter Term stu-
dent surveys on alcohol use, Horton said that
the mission of the task force will not be deter-
mining whether or not there is a problem, but
on solving an existing one.

“We have data showing that there is deﬁnitely a

DuPont displays

By Alison Trinidad

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee Professor of Art Larry Stene
is going to change the way we look at photographs.

“I Digitizied This: Transformed Images,” Stene’s
photo exhibit, opened Friday evening in duPont
Gallery, where it will remain on display until Dec. 8.

“This is cool,” Southern Virginia College junior
Kristin Newell said. “This is stuff I like.”

Newell attended the opening reception after hear-
ing about it from her art professor.

“It’s taking [photography] to a new level,” she
said. .

Using prints taken from both digital and 35mm
ﬁlm cameras, Stene stretches color, texture, and aes-
thetic norms with Adobe Photoshop, image editing
software known for its assortment of painting, re-
touching, and special effect tools.

The exhibit showcases 41 of his digitally—altered
photographs.

Stene also uses Photoshop in his classes, believ-
ing the software gives students who lack technical
skill, but not vision, a chance to produce art.

The hardest thing for him, he said, is to let go of
the mouse and give someone else creative control.

Stene’s images reﬂect the life that he has lived,
said his wife, Greer Stene.

“We both grew up [in Minnesota] just look-
ing at birch trees, in everyone’s yard, on all
the lakes and everything, so we planted birch
trees in our own yard,” she said. “Those are
our birch trees.”

I Birch or Birches? is Stene’s daughter Alexis’s" 1

favorite work in the exhibit.

Sponsored by:

Office of Health
Promotion and
Substance Abuse
Prevention ’

FROM PAGE 1

problem, and we want to get students involved in
trying to find a solution,” Horton said.

The task force is not the only course of action
being taken by the administration.

President Elrod has called a Student Assem-
bly in Lee Chapel on Thursday at noon to dis-
cuss the culture of alcohol at Washington and
Lee. Students will divide into groups to dis-
cuss the issue.

Howison said that he hopes the university com-
munity can benefit from the task force and the as-
sembly.

“We want to use the lessons from this tragedy to
make positive changes in this community,” he said.

digital drawings

    

pictire by Emily Biies/Executive Editor
PICTURE Tins: Stene and one of his creations.

“It looks like three different trees, but it’s actually
just different sections of the same tree,” she said.
Several of the displayed pieces feature Alexis and
her two older sisters.

Tom Murphy, ‘85, will likely buy one of these
pieces, My Little Girl Alex.

“I knew Alex when she was just that age,” he
said, “but beyond the sentimental reasons, I think
that [the picture] is beautifully composed.”

As a work-study for the art department, Murphy
met Stene when he joined the faculty in 1982. He
now owns about 15 of Stene’s works.

“Stene can build anything.” he said. “The man
wields and does woodwork. He can really, literally,
build anything.”

Although the medium may change, Murphy
thinks that Stene’s use of color and dimension re-
mains constant.

“But I’ve been a fan of Larry’s from the very be-
ginning,” he said. “I think that he’s an outrageously
ta1ented’artist:”‘

H “Me too,” Greer Stene added.

Students

Based on W&L CORE Survey data from 1998, 1999, 2000

 

 

 

H wt 2 B 1'.\iI "lll1ll not

 

 

 

    

 

NOVEMBER 6, 2000
g I . . .
Twelve ways to get crazy in Leyburn
Q We don’t give the library enough credit. The co—op’s . when they sit down. Ifthey scream, calmly remind them to be playing any minute now. Stack large text books up to
okay once in a while (or all the time), but it doesn’t provide that this is a library. Leave a trail of breadcrumbs wher— the ceilings and claim that you just don’t trust the columns.
the paradoxical entertainment that the library can. It goes so ever you walk so you don’t get lost. Sit at someone If we don’t keep stacking up books, the library could crash
far beyond just prowling the library when you’re drunk and else’s carrel while he’s gone. When he returns, refuse to at any given second. i
everyone else is sober. Though amusing, it lacks creativity. leave, and insist that it was your carrel all along. ' Sit at a carrel and stare ﬁxedly on the empty desk, .
' The following lage 12 alternatives to b Rollghe hill behind the lit; _ shakilng ylllourd head, ‘mumbling, “I jaqst doitftﬂget Givo By Chnstlne M tzger
studying in the ' rary. rary. e rary’s setting is suc peop ea ar time or wearingm eup o e ' rary. “
12 ways to drive everyone else at  S  an untapped resource for getting in‘ THOUGHT YOUWEREHERETO STUDY, NOT PICKUP
the library loopy. And if you think I’m Kris Polling ’03 touch with your inner child. Ask BOYS!! Yeah, that’s what I thought.” "
, pulling the number “12” out of my ass, i everyone for help with your chinese Offer to help people with their calculus homework. If
you are sorely mistaken. A very grievous, terrible mistake. homework. Even if they say they don’t take chinese, tell they refuse, tell them, “I’ll just tell you this. The key is all in
Steal all the trash cans, and put them in your ﬁsh bowl them it’s ok, but they will indeed rot in hell for their mistake, the square root of x squared is x.‘That’s all I’m gonna say.”
until the room is brimming with trash cans, you are com- Crawl, don’t walk, amidst the book shelves. When some— The library offers more restrictions than the co—op in
pletely surrounded, and there’s no escape. If anyone ‘walks one asks, tell them if you told’ her, you’d have to kill her. regards to furthering your degree of insanity. But it’s these
"‘ in and questions your actions, chalk it up to being a neat Sit by yourself in Northen Auditorium, telling every- challenges that make us unique and happy and fulﬁlled in
freak. Hide under the carrels and grab people’s ankles one who asks that you heard Christina Aguilera was slated our every day life. Smile. God Loves You.
' 0 0 _
«Bush will Wm 
Tomorrow is a big day. By big, I mean hugely, greatly,
grandly, enormously, immensely important. This election
‘ is largely a choice between fresh, progressive conserva-
tive ideas for smaller government and at faster-growing .
economy or tired, bankrupt, tax—and-spend liberal plans '1
I for bigger government and will decide the course of our
country for decades. Fortunately for you, every Ameri-
1 can, and the rest of the free or yearning-to-be-free world,
Republican candidate George Walker Bush, Governor of
Texas, will ‘win, probably by a landslide.
The single biggest reason that W, as well as Republicans
around the country, will win big, is that the Republican base
‘ is galvanized and excited like it hasn’t been since 1980. We
arehungry for a victory, eager to eject the corrupt Clinton
administration from the White House, and can’t wait to vote.
The GOP faithful will assail the voting booths tomorrow and ’
g pull the levers for Bush in huge numbers.
Conversely, the Democratic base couldn’t care less
about this election. Al Gore is a good number two man. He
knows all the facts and ﬁgures and_is always ready to play
the sycophantic sidekick. He has been unable to energize
‘ traditional Democratic constituencies and has struggled
to mobilize urban voters who are key to Gore victory in
Pennsylvania,'Florida, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. As proof, »
Gore and Bush spent the last week in pretty much the same
1 r states, California, Washington, Oregon, Minnesota, Wiscon-
sin, Illinois, Pennsylvania, Iowa, Florida, and Missouri.
All of these states should have been sewn up by the
Democratic nominee long ago. The fact that Bush has even
a chance in any of these traditional liberal and union strong-
1 holds is testament to the fact that Democrats just don’t
get excited about Gore.
Throughout the campaign the electorate has demon-
strated the it finds Bush to be the more likable of the two
‘ candidates. They simply had reservations about whether or
not he was ready to be President. Dubya more than allayed I 
these d0nhts With his speetaenlaf debate PeI'f0ffnanCe- NOW, highlighting Gore’s huge entitlement increases and spend— Lieberman was excommunicated by an Orthodox Jewish
Goio did liiilisolf iio fiivois with his sigliss giiilitsi moans, ing promises, he has also never failed to criticize the vice— rabbinical court in New York. He has totally abused any
biillyiiiga and ooliiiesoolisioiia but Biisli Wass totally iiliex‘ perpetrator for being just as Crooked. G0re’S baffling in- credentials he ever had a devoutly religious man and many
‘ Peetedlyi more the Capable Of holding his 0Wn against an ability to tell the truth and his chameleon—like pandering Americans are repulsed by his false piety.
ostensibly skilled dehaten He sh0Wed the American People to every interest group hasn’t helped his cause. ' Finally, Ralph Nader will siphon votes from Gore in
3 Wide iiliiieislaiioiiig of foieigli 3-flaiis The liberal media gave Gore im- important swing states such as Washington, Oregon, and
slit-if altlioiigli  with Policy iiii‘   of the Aisle mense credit for his choice of Joe Minnesota. The Greens are right when theyssay that Gore
s iiiitiae like the Dingle Nolwoodbiliahas Lieberman as runmng mate. This has to cam his votes like any other candidate, but the
3 oloai Visioii fol ‘ioiiiosiio PolioY- Brett Kirwan ’04 Was hailed as ' an act Of unpreC- votes Nader has earned would otherwise go to Gore.
Aliollioi ioasoii to “Pool that Biisli edented political courage and an I am fully confident that Governor Bush will be our next
Will Clean Gore’s Clock is that the American Pe0Ple afe illustration of Gore’s progressiveness. These blandish- President; if for no other reason, one knows the Demo-
disgusted by the deceit, C01'l'llPti0n, lies. and C0InPlete ments notwithstanding, the move failed even as a crass crats are toast when they are complaining about media
1 disrespect for the rule of law displayed by the Clinton— ploy to disguise Gore’s positions counter to traditional bias, justas DNC Chairman Ed Rendell did in Pennsylva-
Gore Administration. This factor has been dubbed “Clinton morality, Lieberman was forced to change so many of his nia recently, saying, “1t’s so frustrating to me what's go-
Fatigue-” out there iii ill/oVel ooiilitil’ ilioio is 3 dooP and stances, SOCial security privatization. School Choice, and ing on here. We have . . . George Bush sounding compas-
abiding visceral dislike Of 0111' current President. AS II1llCl'l [nissﬂe defense, for example , that he no longer adds any sionatef’ Thg real shalnc fgr Gore’ Randell, and Dame-
1 as Bush has drawn a line between Gore and his boss by integrity to an h‘onor1ess campaign, A150, on oct_ 23, crats evgrywhgrg is that Americans are listening
. O
@112 ﬂing mm  Letter t0 the Edlt0r-
‘ one Student Offers his Own supports Grlolrle is Iolither :1 liar (and fsocial clilinber), or simply
. . - ' a moron. e o y re reason or a ric person to vote'
Executive Editors lSatnel[l)lli,aliiaernl:isanco View Of Election  Gore is over the abortion issue, (assuming that, if they
News Editor Matt McDermott . elect Bush, his Supreme Court justices will overturn previ-
0l’i”i‘?" E‘“f°’ T“"‘_A““ Fried", DearEditor, ous abortion rulin s.) So, b votin Gore for this issue, a
' W&Lzfe Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia . . . . g . y . g . .
Spam Editor Jeremy Franklin ‘Here at Washington and Lee, we have a plethora of rich citizen of the United States 1S trading. money in ex-
Last word Ed,-,0, Bryan Early honesty. Yes, I’d say we have a plethora. change for a SLIGHT possibility that abortions might,
COPY Editor Heather Me_D0nai<i But it seems as though honesty is taking a back seat in someday, become illegal.
C"”’”b“”"3 Ed”"’s $;°xh‘;:lit(l:l"“°“d°" the 2000 Presidential Election. Perhaps I am the only per— This is lunacy.
‘ Jessica Jones son with this unique perspective.’ After establishing that I Any other excuse made by a ‘wealthy voter to vote
Photo Editor Lisa Lin assumption from the start, here is my honest take on the Gore is pure malarkey and we honest people shouldn’t
Phomgmphers Colin Mitchell elections to be held November 7 in this the -year of our have to listen to wealthy, social climbing, idiots lie to us
ﬂﬁtyhfilgi d Lord 2000. ' about their “politically correct” beliefs.
‘ Graphics/Cartoonist M oni ca Scxgnsthaler Here’s the bottom line: Ifyou’re rich, vote for Bush and In closing, if you’re rich, vote for the coke—head who’ll
Online Editor Ginger Phillips keep your money. If you’re poor, vote Gore and get free let you keep your money. Ifyou’re poor, vote for the spine-
Business Manager Paiil Selle" stuff. If you’re middle class, you really- have no candidate less jellyﬁsh who will give you lots of free stuff at rich
to support here, so vote Nader or vote Andrij and support people’s expense. If you’re middle class, good luck in your
The Ring.-mm Phi is published Mondays during the Maxim magazine. efforts to become rich. Now that’s an honest opinion.
or undergraduate s¢hoo1 year at Washington and Lee I’m tired of listening to rich peopletalk about the great— Sincerely,
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee ness of Gore. In my opinion, everyone who is rich and Peter Jefferson ’03
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The '
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
’ The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
9 and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
in the following week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves .2;
the right to edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
9 Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
1 208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
¢. . E-mail: phi@wlu.edu _
h"p'i//wmed"/~phi “Seeing the falnilies attend the Various . “Shopping, sporting events, and getting “Together time. . . and hanging “The free food!”
Annual Subsription me. $30 activities and taking part in W&L tradition.” parents to meet the people you see everyday.” out at Otterville.” —Jean Rowan ’0l
’ -George Kudlacik -Alison Kudlacik ’02 -Mary Ann Rowan

 

 

PAGE 4

  &

  

@112 iﬂtng-tum Iﬂhi

IFE 

NOVEMBER 6, 2000

Oleana, Greater Tuna take Lenfest stage

By Ashley Klimp

STAFF WRITER

This December, Washington and
Lee will host two unusual and often
controversial plays: Oleana and
Greater Tuna. Both plays are student
directed as part of senior project the-
ses. Zeenie Ginwalla, a senior theater
and business administration major is
directing Oleana. Greater Tuna is di—
rected by Francis McWilliams, a se-
nior theater and European history
major. .

Oleana, written by David Mamet,
is a two—person play about a male col-
lege professor and a female student
that deals with sexual harrassment and
abuse of power. Ginwalla discovered
and selected the play last year.

“I read close to 50 plays before I
chose this one,” Ginwalla said.

She chose this play for its contro-
versial subject.

“Oleana is a really powerful play,
it’s very revelant. . .I’m not going to tell
you who’s right and who’s wrong in
this play, I wanted to make the audi-
ence think and decide for themselves,”
Ginwalla said.

Senior Colin Tate plays the part of
John, the professor, and sophomore
Catherine Summerson plays the part
of Carol, the student. _

“I have really great actors and we
have really great teamwork. It’s all

starting to really come together,”
Ginwalla said.

‘ Ginwalla has been either dancing,
acting, directing, or working back-
stage since the age of four.

“I’ve been involved'in every as-

pect of theater,” Ginwalla said.
Her main interest lies in directing
and backstage work and, though she

has some acting experience, she has 7

resisted acting at W&L.

.“I like being able to see the whole
thing come together and as an actor
you don’t really get to do that,”
Ginwalla said.

This is not Ginwalla’s directoral
debut, last winter term she directed
Reverse Transcription by Tony
Kushner. Directing Oleana has her
particularly excited because she con-
siders Mamet to be, “one of the most
proliﬁc playwrites of the ‘90s.”

Oleana will show on December 1,
2, 4, and 6 at 8 p.m.

Greater Tuna, written Jaston Will-
iams, Joe Sears, and Ed Howard, is also
a two—person play, but in this case each

' actor plays 10 different characters. The

story takes place in the small town of '

Tuna, Texas and is a comedy about
men, women and social convention in
the 1970s. The two actors in Greater
Tuna are seniors Blair Mitchell and Ryan
Truax. The play is also part of a senior
thesis for Mitchell and Truax as actors
instead of directors.

A EXPLORING THEIR FEMININE SIDES: Seniors Ryan Truax and Blair A
Mitchell rehearse for the upcoming play, Greater T una.

“It’s going great. We’re getting
along really well, we’re all collaborat-
ing to make this a good show,”
McWilliams said. -

McWilliarns was not involved in

M theater prior to attending W&L. He

first ventured into acting his freshman
year in The Philadelphia, a‘one act
by David Ives. Last year he directed a
one act play called Foreplay or the

Art of the Fugue, also written by Ives.

I arose to direct, he could not refuse.

Photo courtesy of Lenfest Center

McWilliams had not originally
planned to direct a play for his senior
thesis. -He was looking to audition for
a play, but when the opportunity

“I’m not really sure which I favor
[acting or directing] ,” McWilliams
said.

Greater Tuna will show on Decem-
ber 2 at 2 p.m., December 3 and 7 at 8
p.m., and December 5 at 9 p.m.

   
     
    
   
 
 
 
  

By Emily Barnes
EXECUTIVE EDITOR

h U2’s new album, All that You Can ’t Leave Behind,
brings us to the next stage in the musical journey of a
band whose music still manages to both keep us guess-
ing and make us pleasantly surprised. They’ve spent the
past 20 years evolving from that punk band from Dublin
in the early ‘80’s, to the righteous crusaders of War, then
lightened up a bit (on the crusading, but not on the mu-
sic) to create the lyrical/musical masterpiece The Joshua
Tree. After trekking around the states to soak up some
inspiration for Rattle and Hum, the boys took some time
off to, as Bono put it best, “dream it all up again.”

Dream they did, and the band entered the new decade

eration of listeners. Achtung Baby encompassed lyrical
genius with modern distortions of sound, resulting in a
high-tech symphony of music that perfectly illustrated
what was modern musical a_vant-garde in the early 90’s.
Pop followed along this path, but the album was more
thematic, focusing on a tongue—in—cheek portrayal of the
lifestyle of a true rock star, with songs of obsession with
consumerism and extravagance, throwing in a little hedo-
nistic charm for goodimeasure (the song “Playboy Man-
sion” being one example of this).

I’ll be the first to admit: Pop was no runaway success,
but it did not seem to phase the boys in the slightest.
They already had the star power, the stadium shows, and
the artistic license to take their music in any creative
direction. ,

With the understanding of this freedom, along with
the confidence of seasoned veterans, U2 moves us to
the next level with All that You Can ’t Leave Behind. The
, band is taking the next logical step —— they’ve gone to
’ the extreme and now they’re concentrating on the music.
As they followed the path of_ musical progression that
they continue to build in front of them, while picking up
new sources of inspiration along the way, the music was
always at the core. The music in itself is where the band
was and still is truly innovative, and that is what they
present to us now undisguised. The new album strips all
the glitter and TV screens away, leaving behind 10,infec—
tious melodies. ' '
This is_an album that you can pop in the CD player, hit

 
 
 
  

A 8 S   ,
SCREEN PRINTING

 

537 waaden st‘.
Lexington, Va. 14450
‘($40) 464-9042

Fax (540)464-6360

SPORTSWEAR

with the album that reinvented their music for a new gen- .

    

Newalbum keeps U2’s rock star statusintact

ranks of U2’s best albums.

My advice to you: If you’re looking for some new
music that is uplifting and catchy without being overly
pop, music that is made by the pros that have been doing
this for 20-plus years and aren’t going away anytime
soon, pick up this album. Learn the words (it won’t take
long), practice swaying back and forth, and purchase the
lighter you will want to raise when the boys take the
stage in the spring. It’s going to be worth it to see the
masters of their craft.

“shuffle play” and feel assured that, whichever song comes
on, you’ll be happy enough that you don’t have to rush
over to push the “next” button. It’s also a CD that might
still be in your stereo in a couple of years _— this is music
that has a timeless sweetness to it, characteristic of any
classic album. V

The songs share a similar speed, the words are clear and
catchy, and (not to sound too much like I’m describing the
latest sugar-coated boy-band music) the songs are happy
songs. You would think that, with Bono’s recent quest to
relieve the poorest countries of debt (not a small task), he
would slip back into his never—discreet tendency to preach.
Instead, this album is missing those brooding, introspec-
tive, dark s'ongs that have dotted the albums of the past.
With songs like “Peace on Earth” and “Beautiful Day,” this _
album is definitely one you want to groove to after a rough
day. .

Bono keeps his wipsy, crooning voice under control,
allowing the lyrics to blend with the music instead of over-
power it. The rest of the band shares the spotlight this time
around, and the group effort is a masterpiece worthy of the

WIN A TRIP

FOR TWO TO

AFRICA I

This year the cast of MTV’s
’Tl1e Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

  6
4-"§M.;°
‘E
$0“

Enter For a chance to win at your
local Council Travel office or at
councill-ravel.com

    

This trip to Africa is provided by

   

” ﬁg
. _ _ vlrgl-n
s.na...ss°"y§.§'§".¢.- atIant1c

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S.. ‘

between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go .
to counciltraveI.com. Sweepstakes ends 1,0/15/00. ‘

Travel ,____
counciltravelcom
1 —800—2COUNC|L

.5- ,.

    
   

hoto courtesy of http://www.u2.com
CREATIVE JUICES: Adam Clayton, Bono, the Edge
and Larry Mullen reinvent their music to
produce another classic album.

  COEEE

(, . O f‘;/)
. (.1 rm'Iu{(/ (nun/uII.Iy

' - FRESH EACH MORNING p
ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ' FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET - LEXINGTON ° 464-6586 I

N

‘U

H

 

 

"V

NOVEMBER 6, 2000

S

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁlii

PAGE 5

By Geoff White

SP0RTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team won the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship
match on Saturday, defeating Virginia
Wesleyan 1-0.

Winning the tournament did not come
easily for the Generals had to battle
through a frustrating performance against
Guilford in the quarterﬁnals, and a close
contest against Randolph-Macon in the
semiﬁnals. Top-seeded W&L entered
the ODAC playoffs Tuesday against
Guilford, ranked eighth.

The ﬁrst half was scoreless until jun-
ior Rick Schnatz scored off an assist from
s phomore Michael Stoeckle. Guilford
midﬁelder Noam Sorek scored the game-
tying goal, which would ultimately send
the match to overtime, on a penalty kick
L15 minutes into the second half.

The overtime saw high emotions

and ﬂaring tempers. Six minutes into
the extra time, Sorek received a red card
for using hands to prevent the ball from
going into the Quakers’ net. A penalty
kick was awarded to the Generals, and
Guilford midﬁelder Paul Wallace scored
to send the Generals to the next round.

Five yellow cards were issued in
the Generals’_ semiﬁnal match against
Randolph—Macon, including one that
resulted in a penalty kick for the Yel-
low Jackets at the 13:35 mark.
Randolph-Macon forward Scott Eley
scored against sophomore goalkeeper
Tim Foley on the play to give
Randolph—Macon a 1-0 lead. .

The Generals responded by persis-
tently attacking the Yellow Jackets’
goal. With 1:47 left in the first half, their
persistence paid off when freshman
Philip Miller scored an unassisted goal.

With over two minutes left in regu-
lation, the ball went into the Generals’
goal. The goal was disallowed, how-

ever, since a Yellow Jackets’ player had
pushed the ball in with his hands.

With 1:29 remaining in the second
half, Wilson took a corner kick for the
Generals. Junior Andrew Grimes
headed in the pass from Wilson, beat-
ing the Yellow Jackets’ keeper for the
garne-wimring tally.

“Wilson hit a perfect ball, and I just
got my head on it,” Grimes said of the
goal, which sent W&L to the ODAC
ﬁnals against Virginia Wesleyan.

Freshman Philip Miller scored the
lone goal to win the championship
against the Blue Marlins, who had
defeated Roanoke in a shootout duel
in the semiﬁnals. The Generals had
many offensive opportunities, and fi-
nally capitalized when Miller scored
off a pass from senior Jon Wilson 19
minutes into the game.

“Once we scored one, I knew we
were going to win,” said Foley, who
made nine saves against the Blue

PQRTS
4 Generals edge Wesleyan, win ODAC title

Marlins despite an injured hamstring.

‘ The Generals weathered an offensive
stonn late into the game. A Blue Marlin
kicked the ball over the Generals’ goal just
after a shot hit the crossbar with seven
minutes left in regulation.

With 30 seconds left to play, the
Blue Marlins got their best opportu-
nity, only to see the ball cleared by
sophomore Sean Hardin. As the game
ended, the Parents’ Weekend fans
gave the team a standing ovation, con-
gratulating the Generals on their con-
ference championship.

“It’s been a dream,” said coach Rolf
Piranian.

Foley, Grimes, Miller, and Wallace
were named to the all-tournament team

for their play in the three-garne stand.’

As ODAC champions, the Generals
have earned a berth in the NCAA Divi-
sion HI Tournament. The time, date, and
opponent for the Generals in the first
round have yet to be determined.

  

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
PLAYOFF BOUND. Senior Jon Wilson is pursued by two Virginia
Wesleyan defenders in the Generals’ 1-0 win in Saturday’s
ODAC title game. The win gives W&L an automatic bid to

 

W&L falls in ODAC

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

, The Washington and Lee volleyball team entered this
year’s Old Dominion Athletic Conference tournament on
Friday with a clear target on its back. I

The Generals entered the tournament as the favorite,
holding the number one seed and being a three-time de-
fending champion.

However, Bridgewater found the mark in the ﬁnals and
downed W&L15-11,15—13,12-15,7-15,18-20in a gut-
wrenching comeback victory.

1 W&L began their title defense with an easy 15-4, 15-9,
15-9 victory over Guilford. Junior outside hitter Leslie
Fischbeck led the Generals with 13 kills.

Sophomore Stacey Kimmel and junior Lindsay Ruckert
added well-rounded performances. Kimmel had 10 kills, 14
slligs, and two blocks, and Ruckert chipped in nine kills,
nine digs, and two blocks.

In semiﬁnal action on Saturday, W&L continued to
move through the tournament, posting a well-earned 16-

. 14, 20-18, 13-15, 15-7 victory over Roanoke.

“Roanoke is» a very’ strong team,” --senior setter -Pam
Saulsbury said. “We played hard and intense, and fought
throughout the entire match.”

Saulsbury ran the offense well, dishing out 30 assists 0

against the Maroons. Ruckert totaled 21 kills. and
Fischbeck and Kimmel added 18 and 11 kills, respectively.

The Generals’ defense also proved strong, as Ruckert
and Fischbeck combined for 14 blocks between them.

The semiﬁnal win over Roanoke sent the Generals to
ihe ODAC championship for the sixth straight year. W&L
started strong, winning the first two games against
Bridgewater by close margins. 1

However, the Eagles fought back and evened the match.
in the final game of the best-of-ﬁve match, the Generals
held a close 14-11 edge when Bridgewater mounted the
winning comeback.

Once again, Ruckert led the offense with 27 kills.
Fischbeck totaled 26 kills, and freshman Kari Lassen
amassed 14 digs to lead the defensive effort.

Despite the loss, the team played remarkably well fol-
lowing the tragic death of teammate freshman Kristin
Shelton.

I

 

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer
FALCON AWARD. Senior Justin Holton was
honored for mirroring the perseverance and
character exemplified by Gary “The Falcon”
Fallon, who coached W&L from 1978-1994.

   

ovrthrow

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
REPEAT PERFORMANCE. Junior Lindsay Ruckert
was named the ODAC Player of the Year for
the second consecutive season. ‘

“We pulled together and played hard,” Ruckert said.
“We gave it our all. It felt very nice to be part of this team.”

The Generals ended the season with a record of 20- 10.
For her efforts during the season, Ruckert earned ﬁrst
team All-ODAC and the Player of the Year award. Shelton
received second team All-ODAC, and was named the
conference’s Rookie of the Year.

the NCAA Division III Tournament, which begins this week.

November 4 Results

Emory & Henry 24, W&L 10
Bridgewater 31, Randolph-Macon 14
Catholic 69, Guilford 27
Hampden-Sydney 42, Maryville 14

ODAC Football Update

_ Football

Standings ODAC Overall NW“ atswanhmore

Team L PF PA w L PF PA

Emory&Henry 5 1 203 158 7 2 281 132 Cmsscountry ,
Bridgewater 4 1 193 73 s 1 315 113 NOV-11 NCAARPg1°na1S
Catholic 4 1 228 121 6 3 293 202 Mensssoccer
Hampden-Sydney 2 3 143 129 4 5 253 230 TBA NCAADiv. III Playoffs
Washington&Lee 2 4 113 166 5 4 217 216 _

Randolph-Macon 1 4 92 145 2 7 140 260 Wrestling _ ,
Guilford 1 5 93 278 1 8 106 409 NOV. ll VMIKeydetInv1tat1onal

November 11 Games

W&L at Swarthmore

Bridgewater at Catholic
Randolph-Macon at Hampden-Sydney
Maryville at Emory & Henry
Greensboro at Guilford

Coming next week on the

sports pages of the Phi...

A review of the water polo and
rugby teams’ 2000 seasons, and
a preview of W&L winter sports.

Emory & Henry knocks off W&L, 24-10

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Emory & Henry rushed for 192 yards, including two
Dan Hammonds touchdowns, as the Wasps handed Wash-
ington and Lee a 24-10 loss Saturday at Wilson Field.

Senior tailback Marc Watson rushed 23 times for 108
yards, setting two more W&L records: rushing yards in a
season (1,224) and career all-purpose yards (3,816).

The Wasps (7-2, 5-1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference),
meanwhile, kept themselves in the race for the ODAC title
and a bid to the NCAA Division III playoffs. In order for
Emory & Henry to qualify for the postseason, Bridgewater
must defeat Catholic in the season’s final week.

“Our fate is in somebody else’s hands now,” Emory &
Henry head coach Lou Wacker said. “But for us to have
any chance at winning the conference championship,
which is always our goal, we had to win this one.”

Harnrnonds scored his ﬁrst TD just over six minutes into the
game for a 7-0 lead. However, freshman quarterback Zack
McQuigg — who replaced injured sophomore Bobby Littlehale

in the staning lineup — connected with senior Wesley Hardy
on a 34-yard touchdown pass to tie the game at 7-7.

On the next W&L possession, McQuigg left the game
after suffering a broken jaw, and was replaced by class-
mate Sean McGarvey, who would ﬁnish 5 -of-15 for 67 yards
and two interceptions.

Head coach Frank Miriello was pleased with the
freshman’s performance, especially considering his lack
of practice time with the first team.

“Sean McGarvey showed a lot of character going in
there under those conditions,” Miriello said. “I’m very
impressed with his character and his courage to go in
there and take charge.” 1

A 62-yard touchdown pass from Shannon Johnson to
Dorsey Hooker with 34 seconds left in the first quarter
ultimately proved to be the game-winner. However, a 34-

yard field goal by junior Brad Wiginton pulled the Gener- '

als to within 14-10, and a goal line stand by the W&L
defense — which resulted in a missed ﬁeld goal -— kept
W&L within striking distance at halftime.

Chris Epperly’s 34-yard ﬁeld goal with 1:39 remaining

in the third quarter pushed the advantage to 17-10, and
Hammonds’ one—yard score midway through the fourth
sealed the win for the Wasps. ,

Emory & Henry dominated the time of possession battle,
especially in the fourth quarter. W&L’s defense was on the
ﬁeld for more than 10 of the game’s final 15 minutes.

“When the offense is having trouble moving the ball,
you’re going to be on the ﬁeld a lot,” said junior line-
backer Jeff Bahl, who recorded 13 tackles and forced a
fumble. “Eventually, it does wear your defense down
physically and mentally.”

W&L (5-4, 2-4) will look to rebound and record a sixth
win for the first time since 1985 against Swarthmore this
Saturday. According to Bahl, McGarvey and the Generals
will be prepared for the competition.

“Sean’s obviously going to take all the reps this week,”
Bahl said of the signal caller. “He’s a confident guy, and I
think he’ll come out and lead the team to victory.

“We’re going to come out and have the best defensive
game of the year. We know that if they don’t score, we can’t
lose, and I think that’s the mentality we’re going to take.”

PART TIME & SEASONAL
'ASSISTANT'S
NEEDED TO WORK
IN AN EXCITING, FAST PACED,
AND FUN ENVIRONIVIENT.

APPLY IN PERSON AT "THE VICTORIAN PARLOUR"
13 SOUTH MAIN STREET LEXINGTON VA.

 

 

Academic Couple

- 21-28
Right candidate will be compensated with approximately $7500.

Outstanding SATs/academics, good temperament, dark hair/eyes, even-featured, 5’6”
or taller, and lean build. .
Please describe motivation along with several [returnable] photos to:
P.O. Box 22
West Kingston, RI 02892

All serious replies will be answered.

Seeks Egg Donor

 

[ W&L sports this week 

 

PAGE 6

Check it, Homefry,
cause I be bringing
stuporﬂy heat

LAS TWO

G111‘: ring-mm um ,

NOVEMBER 6, ZOOQ

Life’s a bitch and then you marry one ZE N |'-'() R |_| F E,

After FOX’s controversial “Who Wants to Marry a Millionaire?” aired last
year, most people thought the folks at FOX couldn’t sink any lower — guess
again. Last week, FOX presented “Surprise Weddings” and managed to sink
to a whole new level of debauchery. While this incarnation of the growing
wacky wedding series doesn’t have Darva Conger, it has something even
better: Five women just as desperate and pathetic as Darva Conger.

The show’s basic premise revolves around ﬁve women who want to pro-
pose marriage to their boyfriends on national television. To do this, they
pretend to have won a trip for two to Las Vegas from local radio station con-
tests. The boyfriends are then lured off to Las Vegas and end up waiting to go
onstage as guests of honor at some reception. The guy has absolutely no idea
what’s going on up until the point when he is walked out on stage to ﬁnd an
arena ﬁlled with ten thousand people, television cameras, a goofy guy with a
microphone, and some lady standing in a wedding dress. At which point, he
must be thinking to himself, “Holy P"**ing s**t! What the f"‘**? Where the
hell is Disco Dan and his hilarious AM radio show crew? Oh no, I must have
taken a wrong turn at the prime rib buffet and now I won’t get to meet the man
Time Magazine called ‘So absolutelyoutrageous that ‘Disco Dick Nixon’ is
rolling over in his grave!”

Then, once the guy gets over the shock of not seeing Disco Dan, he real-
izes that the lady in the wedding dress is in fact not really a lady, rather it’s his
girlfriend. At that point in time, he is most likely thinking something like “Holy
t"‘**ing s**t! What the s**t? Why the hell is <insert name of lying bitch
here> wearing a wedding dress? Oh no . . . she's not going to . . . she wouldn’t

    

Disco Dan

Crazy girl

. . . f***!” Just as the guy is about ready to turn around, march right back to
that prime rib bar, and eat himself into a beef-induced coma . . . he is ambushed
by the announcer and it all goes down hill from there.

The girlfriend then assaults the poor guy with the obvious proposition and
he is given an hour to decide whether or not he wants to get married.

The folks at Fox are not wholly cruel, however, they offer the guy a phone
call to anybody he wants — with a catch. The phone call is televised and can
only last thirty seconds. The conversations went mostly along the lines of
“Hi <insert the name of random person here>. ‘Geena’ asked me to marry her
on national television in Las Vegas, what should I do? . . . no, I am not pulling
your chain. . . no, I am not drunk either . . . nobody put me up to this. . . Yes, well
I was kind of smprised, too . . . it’ll be on FOX. . .Yeah, that does suck; doesn’t
it?” Click.

It was basically an inappropriate rip—off of the “Life-Line,” but insteauﬁ$

was the “Matrimony-line.” After this very unsatisfying phone call, th€boy-
friends are hauled out on stage for the hopeful wives—to—be to make their ﬁnal,
and I quote, “pleas.” If your wife has to get down on her knees and beg for

GONFUGIUS SAY: MAN WHO GO
THROUGH AIRPORT DOORWAY
SIDEWAYSIS GOING TO BANGKOK ’

 

your love, as one did, something is seriously wrong. The guys then had two

choices: To accept and get cheered, get a free vacation, and 15 minutes of fame
or to decline and look like a total jerk and totally piss off your girlfriend and, in

one case, professional ﬁgure skating partner. Well that’s a tough choiw,ﬂsﬁ i“gs  u 
I

good thing that the folks at FOX gave you an hour and a 30 second phone call
to decide. ' ' _
To me, and don’t get me wrong, I am not by any means comparable to Mr.
Kirwan in my conservative views on marriage; this seems morally reprehen-
sible. Marriage, at least in the United States, is supposed to happen for two
reasons: Two people love each other and want to spend the rest of their lives
together or one of the two people is pregnant. Even though some women do
many old guys for money, at least the old guys are getting their money’s worth,
they know exactly what they are getting into, and they don’t advertise it. Mar-
riage shouldn’t be about pleading, deceit, media attention, or two-minute cer-
emonies — it should be about love or at least really, really great sex. Those
marriages willvbe lucky if they last longer than a year, let alone “forever and ever.”
Of course, that works for FOX, too. Because coming Spring 2001, FOX will present
“Surprise Divorces” ﬁlmed from the Shady Heaps RV and Trailer Park.

 
 
  
   

 
  

lgluslwo/id ‘ L

It may not be the San Francisco treat
nymore, but it still tastes delicious.

“It tastes yummy when I eat it.”

Rice~o~Ror1i.

Tastes great with Polish sausage, beef franks, cheese
ﬁlled bratwursts, hot dogs, and twelve-inch Kielbasa.

 

VOIIW|lenll0ll'I'e llrllnli:

OOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO,

it). How stupid you look dancing

9,, Wandering around Lexington like an
inebriatediguana with a poor sense of
dlI'eC{:l0ﬂ—~~:  — 
Your body odor after four hours of grinding
The fact that the person you’re dancing

with belongs in a Richard Simmons video
Sleeping on the ﬂoor in the hall
Your liver s
Your eight o’clock- class tomorrow
The voices in your head telling you to burn
things ,
Using the Po-Po station as a urinal
. Hooking up with wrestlers

.\‘9°
0

“EV P’:".U‘.°‘

  
    

   

        

RETIREMENT WSURANEE MUTUAL FUNDS

Deferring taxes with

One of the fastest ways to build a retirementnest egg
is through tax—deferred Supplemental Retirement

must SERVlCES

TIAA—CREF can be so
rewarding, you’ll wonder
why you didn’t do it sooner.

IT'S EASY TO SAVE MORE THROUGH
THE POWER Ill‘ TAX DEFERRAL

    

TUlTlUN FINANEINE

 

WE HAVE

 
 

§ ‘lax-deferred savings after taxes
I Anenax savings

TOUCH

Annuities (SRAS) from TIAA-C REF.
$102,068

with funds automatically deducted from your paycheck,

. . . . $67,514
you can easily build income to supplement your pension
and Social Security.
And your contributions to SRAs grow undiminished $41,232
by taxes until you withdraw the funds.* Add to that $31,933
TlAA-C REF's solid history of investment performance,
bolstered by our commitment to keeping expenses low, $13 052

and you have more money working for you.
$11,609
So why wait? Let us help you build a comfortable retire-

WVEST A5 U-n-LE A5 ment today with tax—deferred
th 52: a month _ SRAs. We think you will find it
'°‘;,%y,:T, :‘,';:l"at'° rewarding in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

 

  

IOYEARS 20YEARS

In this hypothetical example. setting aside $100 a month in a
tax-deferred invmment with an 8% return in a 28% tax
bracket shows better growthihan the same net arnountput
into a savings account. Total returns and principal value of
investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield may vary. The chart
above is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not
reﬂect actual performance, or predict future results, of airy
TlAA—CREF account, or reflect expenses.

j

        

30YEARS

STUDENTS

 

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 )1464 - 4483

THE ?LACE FOR FOOD AND EuN ! I .

IN CASE YOU MISSED IT WERE THE
RLACE IN TOWN FOR VIDEO GAMES

GOOD GORHERS -.CHAMRION RUB ~
DART MACHINES ' FOOS ’BALL-MEGA

-AND REVOLUTIONS.
REMEMBER WE WELCOME ALL

ALL STUDENTS 21 AND OVER
UNTIL WE CLOSE.

- HYDRO THuNDER~ N0 ,

v

vIDE0 -r>00L TABLES

. '7

UNTIL 10:00 PM. AND

‘V

will nriE BROILER

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa-cref.org

O 2000 TlAA-C REF 08/03

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them care-
fully before you invest. 1. You may be able to invest up to the IRS maximum of $10,500 per year. To receive a personalized calculation of your
maximum contribution, call TlAA{REF at 1 800 842—2776. 0 TlAA{ REF Individual and institutional Services, Inc. distributes the C REF and TIAA
Real Estate variable annuities. - Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual
funds and tuition savings agreements 0 HM and TIAA-C REF Life insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. 0 TIAA-CREF Trust
Company, FSB provides trust services. 0 investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.

16 oz. T~'BONE STEAK W/BAKED . .
POTATO AND MIXED GREEN SA LAD

$ 6.50 ’

 

