it

&

4 373.755

  

 

"Arch

R555?»-
v. :03
V10» l0

C :9

dc-—I

VOLUME 103, No. 10

C112 ‘tiling

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsrTY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER [7,  f “

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

       

   

   

L-

 

’r‘.TK’)L%J, VA. ,3445c

L7i?“;‘~i'l.!7

- 2 t. :’.LJ"'NBRASl  T I I
WA8H!Ne‘TON it La; um/ens;
lg‘: "‘ r

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2000

By Latrina Stokes ‘

STA FF WRITER

Lexington police recovered sev-
eral bicycles stolen last week from
Washington and Lee dorms and
Washington Street fraternity houses.

The theft of the 16 bikes, worth
more than $1 1,000, occurred Oct. 2 and
3 between 11 p.m. and 4 a. in.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said that an anonymous tip led
the police to discover all of the bikes.
They were found encrusted in mud
under a residential‘ porch on North
Randolph Street.

Seven people have been charged
for the thefts.

“We are still investigating because
three of the suspects are juveniles,”
Chief Beard said. “Petitions will be
ﬁled for grand larceny against them.”

The four adults were charged with
grand larceny and possession of sto-
len property.

Director of Campus Security Mike
Young said that one of the victims
actually saw some of the bikes being
stolen.

“A student observed three white
males and one black male ride away,”
Young said.

Three were juveniles and one was
an adult. He thought it suspicious
that they would be leaving campus at
3:00 a.m.

“He didn’t realize that they were
the thieves until later when he found

Stolen bicycles
recovered

out that his bike had been stolen,”
Young said.

Only eight bikes were reported
stolen to Campus Security. ’

Wednesday the Lexington Police
Department contacted Campus Secu-
rity to inform them that all bikes had
been recovered. As of Friday, nearly
all of the bikes were returned to their
owners.

Young said that the thefts were
easy because none of the bikes were
locked or chained. '

Junior Ian McAllister was so busy
that he forgot to lock his bike before
going into the Science center Mon-
day night.

“I normally lock my bike, but that
was the last thing on my mind,”
McAllister said.

McAllister parked his bike at 11
p.m. He did not‘ discover it was miss-
ing until he ﬁnished his computer sci-
ence project at 6 am.

“I was shocked and disappointed
when I found out that my bike had
been stolen,” McAllister said.

Initially McAllister felt his conﬁ-
dence in the honor system plummet.

“I felt that the honor system and
the whole campus had been vio-
lated,” he said. “However, I realized it
was people off campus and not stu-
dents, so that wasn’t the case.”

He was impressed at how quickly
local authorities found the culprits.

“W&L security and Lexington
police should be commended for ap-
prehending the thieves,” he said.

REUNITED. Junior Ian McAllister stands with his newly recovered bike, one of
16 stolen from Washington and Lee students.

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

UFO’s, ghosts, angels, and reincarnation
all remain largely unexplained—-—unless your
name is Dr. Paul Kurtz.

“If you cannot prove it, suspend judge-
ment,” Kurtz said in his lecture Thursday night
in Lee Chapel.

Kurtz, Professor Emeritus at State Univer-
sity of New York in Buffalo, specializes in
unexplained, supernatural phenomena, and
offers his services on numerous TV shows
as an expert skeptic. He has appeared on
“Sally Jesse Raphael,” “Larry King Live,”
and numerous local and national news pro-
grams. Critical of the media, he said that the
press sensationalizes supernatural phenom-
ena stories to draw viewers, and seldom pre-
sents a critical image.

“When I’m on television, I’m usually the
only professed skeptic, while there are usually
at least three ‘believers,”’ he said.

Beer ﬂows freely at  experiment

LIFE and Peer Counseling representatives posted the results
from the BAC and sobriety tests on a wall of the GHQ, in order to
keep track of the effects of alcohol on each drinking participant.

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Most people who see these things,
Kurtz said, suffer from crypto-arnnesia,
in which the mind distorts memories
trapped in the subconscious. He noted
that President Jimmy Carter once reported
he saw a UFO, only to find out later that it
was really the planet Venus at dusk.

Such incidents are not uncommon, he
said, because people’s minds see what
they want to believe is true. The same
thing applies to horoscopes, which he
said are completely invalid.

“I’ve given a classroom full of people
the same horoscope, and they all said it
applied to them somehow,” he said.

Kurtz also stressed the upward trend
in belief in the supernatural in the United
States, saying that America ranks num-
ber one among western nations in sev-

eral paranormal and supematural catego— '

rres.

“It’s ironic that belief in [the super-
natural] has increased almost proportion-
ately with progress in science and tech-

The drinks were on Washington and Lee Wednesday night as
several students took part in the Controlled Drinking Experiment.

The event, sponsored by LIFE and the Peer Counselors, was
designed to promote alcohol awareness, and drew in 25 student
participants from various campus organizations.

Teams of two students representing university organizations
participated in the experiment, one to drink and the other to aid the
drinker. Participants, all 21 or older, consumed two beers at their
own pace within the first 45 minutes. They then waited 15 minutes
before taking a BAC test administered by Lexington Police and the
Rockbridge County Sheriff ’s Office. The drinkers’ partners helped
them to ﬁll out their forms and to keep track of time. Participants
then continued to drink and to test themselves after each beer.

“We do this presentation to give people the idea of how little
alcohol it takes to get a BAC,” Lindsey Duran, LIFE co-chair for the
Substance Committee, said.

Participants drank up to six beers within two hours, though they
were allowed to stop whenever they chose. At the end of the night,
each drinker took a sobriety test.

“We posted the information not only to show the alcohol effect
rate, but also to show the differences in effects on individuals, for
example men and women or large and small people,” LIFE co—advi—
sor Dr. Jane Horton said.

Student band Poston Brown Project played while students and specta-
tors enjoyed snacks and drinks. LIFE and Peer Counselors also furnished
beer goggles and Alcohol 101, a simulated drinking computer game.

“I think it is a good idea for the school to promote alcohol educa-
tion,” H.N. Ferguson Rockbridge County Deputy Sheriffsaid. “It is
important for students to know their legal limits so that they can be
responsible drinkers.”

. Organizations participating in the activity included Environmen-
tal Law, Rutherford Institute, Executive Committee, Federalist Soci-
ety, Rho Chis, Trident, Law School, GHQ, Club Softball, Dorm Coun-

‘ selors, PRIDE, College Republicans, Student Bar Association, In-

dependents, fraternities, and sororities.

Duran said that she hopes that the participants will recognize
the true aim of the experiment.

“We hope people will come away from this with a lesson,” she said.

nology,” he said.

Kurtz also talked at length on reincar-
nation. He said that in many experiments,
students under hypnosis were asked to
“take [the person performing the experi-
ment] back” to their “previous life.”

“These students have admitted to be-
ing everything from a Neanderthal to a
Roman soldier in their previous lives,” he
said, adding that the vivid details the stu-
dents provided only further proved how
implausible it was.

“All you have to do is check the fac-
tual information in their stories, and you’ll
find that many are incorrect,” he said.

On an appearance on “Sally Jesse
Raphael,” Kurtz left no doubt of his skep-
ticism. After watching guests under hyp-
nosis admit to past lives in different peri-
ods of history, he asked:

“Tell me, has anybody here had a past
life as a cocker spaniel?”

Sophomore Christina Twomey, who
did not agree with Kurtz’s presentation,

Contact speaker debunks the supernatural

said that he used distinctly unreliable
sources to illustrate the opposition’s point
of view and applied rational thought to
irrational phenomena.

“He didn’t do a good job of present-

ing either point of view,” Twomey said.
Though he said he found the lecture

entertaining, freshman Daniel Vos agreed.
“A lot of his principles were pretty

commonsense,” Vos said.

Twomey said she was surprised that the
Contact Committee, which brings in many
well—received speakers, invited Kurtz.

“I thought it was awful. . . I hope they

‘ didn’t spend a lot of money on him,” she

said.

Contact Committee member Mike
Stefan said that he was pleased with
Kurtz’s lecture and presentation.

“The Contact Committee tries to
bring speakers of educational and/or
entertainment value,” Stefan said. “We
thought Dr. Kurtz achieved both of
these ends.”

photo by Lisa Lin/Photo Editor

WHAT’s YOUR BAC? LIFE members tally results of the drinking experiment.

Ellie ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

October 9, 2000

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 {Ring-tum iﬁhi

OCTOBER 9, 2000 ‘

  

‘TH E WORLD

gence unit assigned to collect information on German
atomic bomb projects, focuses on the Manhattan X
Project, the massive scientiﬁc and technological ef-
fort that produced the ﬁrst atomic bomb. "The goal of

 

By Mehul Srivastava

STAFF WRITER
Kostunica sworn in as
Yugoslav president

Vojislav Kostunica took ofﬁce as Yugoslaviafs presi-
dent elect this Sunday after widespread protests and in-
ternational pressure forced Slobodan Mi1osevic\to hand
over the reins to Kostunica. ‘

The recently held elections were allegedy rigged in
Milosevic’s favor. He had ruled Yugoslavia for the past
13 years and was widely believed to have been extremely
corrupt.

No announcements have been made yet about inves-
tigations into these allegations, fueling speculation that
some kind of deal might have been struck. Nor has any
decision been reached about his extradition so that he
can be tried for human rights abuse charges.

However, all of these reports remain unconﬁrmed.
Kostunica was welcomed into office by several nations,
and he has been invited to an European Union summit
where he would receive emergency aid from the Euro-
pean nations. The economy responded positively, with
the Yugoslav Dinar rising against the Deutsch Mark.

In related news, China denies rumours that Milosevic
would try to ﬂee to Beijing with the about $150 million
worth of gold reserves.

SORORITY

hot water used by all five of the sorority houses.
Pressure must be regulated as the demand for heat
changes. When the safety pressure is exceeded, a
safety valve releases steam through a pipe that ex-
its through the roof.
Beebe has contacted the contractor to make the
necessary adjustments and aims to have the prob-

lem repaired within the week. Although the problem‘

is the contractor’s responsibility, the Physical Plant
hopes to alleviate the strain on students)

“We don’t want to inconvenience [them],” he
said. “It’s a new building and we want to get the
bugs fixed.”

When the alarm went off again the following

the Alsos project," explained Settle, "is to provide a
wide range of references to resources for the study of
the Manhattan Project to as large an audience as pos-
sible. We anticipate this project will strengthen the
quality of education by connecting different disci-
plines, issues and ideas surrounding nuclear energy."
Alsos was the code name for the U.S. Army's intelli- tr
gence unit assigned to collect information on German
atomic bomb projects during World War II.

As well as searching and indexing tools that allow
a user to explore the web site, Alsos will contain a set
of audio and visual references that will include in-
dexed, digitized sound tracks and images. Links to
vetted web sites will also be provided. Settle sees this
site as being useful in organizing classes, seminars
and other projects on the atomic bomb. He currently .0
leads an interdisciplinary seminar on the atomic bomb
at W&L.

The project is a component of the National Sci-
ence Digital Library program that involves approxi-
mately 42 colleges and universities. The goal of this
program is to provide resources for teaching science,
mathematics, engineering and technology to students
from kindergarten through adult learners.

Settle joined the W&L faculty in 1998. He has been It
a member of the Virginia Military Institute faculty and
has served as program director for chemistry in the

Science Foundation Fotaliflg $234000 to C°nFi‘}“e division of undergraduate education for the National
work on a web—based project titled The Alsos Digital Science Foundation‘

Library” -courtesy W&L website I
Alsos, the code name for the U.S. Army's intelli-

Tl-IIS VVEEK

 

New Film Observes 130th Anni-

versary of Lee's Death

Lee: Beyond the Battles, a new documentary ﬁlm by
Rubicon productions examining the life and legacy of
Robert E: Lee will be shown in Lee Chapel on Thursday,
Oct. 12 at 7:00pm. Created and directed by alumnus
Drew Perkins ‘84, with journalism professor Robert de
Maria as associate producer, the ﬁlm features interviews
with historians Ted DeLaney, Holt Merchant, and Tay-
lor Sanders, all professors of history, and Vaughan
Stanley, associate professor and special collections li-
brarian. Merchant also served as the project’s academic
coordinator. The film will be shown on PBS next year.

-courtesy Robert de Maria and Lee Chapel Museum

AIDS vaccine trials

South Africa’s Medical Research Council announced
Wednesday that heating breast milk from a mother carry-
ing the human immunodeﬁciency virus (HIV) could pre-
vent the virus’ transmission from mother to child.

Council president Malegapuru Makgoba also announced
that South Africa will begin clinical trials in February of an
HIV vaccine developed with the United States. The trials will
last several years, but Makgoba hopes to have results by 2005.

A large number of infants are infected with HIV by their
mothers in South Africa, where 10 percent of people are
infected with HIV, one of the highest infection rates on the
African continent.

The council reported that heating a mother’s breast milk
upto 65 degrees Celsius for 20 rriinutes leaves 80 percent
of the milk’s antibodies and nutrients and provides an al-
ternative to expensive anti-retroviral drugs.

W&L Professors Receive $224,000

from NSF

Frank Settle, professor of chemistry at Washing-
ton and Lee, and Tom Whaley, professor of computer
science at W&L, have received a grant from the Na-

Israeli border clashes ma,

Islamic guerrillas operating out of Lebanon traded fire
with the Isreali army and captured three soldiers during
nine days of ﬁghting between Palestinians and Isreaelis.
Responding, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak set a 48
hour ultimatum for Palestinians to halt their assaults on
military outposts and civilian settlements. Observers fear
that recent clashes may derail the current Isreali/Palestin-
ian peace talks.

 

   

s FROM PAGE 1

Wednesday, residents of the house were prepared to
handle the situation. Herman said that she knew what
was going to happen when the lights began to ﬂicker.
This time, however, the Physical Plant did not have
to turn off the hot water line.

Although not strictly necessary, the girls stayed
outside until the alarm was turned off. The most com-
mon complaint concerned the alarm’s volume.

The other sorority houses, including Theta and
Chi-O, let the Pi Phis stay inside of their houses until
the problem subsided.

“I credit the girls for doing what they were sup-
posed to do,” Director of Security Mike Young said.
“I appreciate that.”

  

'_

When you're investing for retirement, the adage

doesn't apply to taxes.

can add up to significantly more money for you—-
money you can use to supplement your pension and
Social Security.

deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.
Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax-saving solutions—a|ong with TIAA-CREF's
low expenses and solid history of performance—can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years -to come.

subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

RETIREMENT IIIZNSIIBANEET MUTUAL FUNDS

Tax-deferred solutions
from T IAA-CREF can
help you reach your

retirement goals faster.

"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"

That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% maybe

       

-rirjiifsr s£avl‘ft£57 TUITIUN FINANEING

      

If you are interested in becoming a dorm counselor or resident .
assistant next year, please make plans to attend one of three
information sessions that will be offered on October 16, 17, and

current residence life staff members will discuss their roles,
explain the application and interview process, and answer any

 

TAXI] FEHBAI ' . . .
E MAKES A DIFFEHENEE at these information sessions.

   
 

$102,068 A

*5" W''‘'’””'‘’ HULI.’S

After-taxsavirigs    ‘.
AFRICA

[>RI\/E—II\I

This year the cast of MTV’s
’Tl1e Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

¢
&\‘.,sv\;o
ﬁom
Enter for a chance to win at your

local Council Travel office or at
counciltravel.com

4 Miles, Route ‘I1 North Lexington
463-2621

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will fluctuate, and yield‘
may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reflect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reﬂect expenses.

Gate Opens 7pm
Movies at Dusk

 

This mp "° AI"i°° is p'°"ided b7 2000 Kirsten Dunst Eliza Dushku

A I

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it.“

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..
betweenthe ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go
to counciltravelcom. Sweeps! kes ends 10/15/O0.

NURSE BETTY R

www.tiaa-cref.org

   

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully
before you invest. 0 TIAA{REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. - Teachers
Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. 0
TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities, 0 TIAA-C REF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.
- Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. © 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03

2000 Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman
Black Comedy

counCiltravel.com
1 —800—2COUNC|L

 

www.hullsdr'ivein.com_

     

 

 

Residence Life Positions, 2001-2002 "

18 at 7 :00 pm in University Center 113. At these sessions A

questions you might have. Applications will be available only "

FRIDAY 0 SATURDAY 0 SUNDAY ‘

Admission $4/adult I

BRING IT ON PG 13 '

 7 W Comedy
1 . 8 0 O . 8 4 2 . 2 7 7 6  a‘c’i3%'3c DOUBLE FEATURE-——

F

 

OCTOBER 9, 2000

  OPINION

 

PAGE 3

«W&L’s third maxim: “Love it or leave it”

In addition to upholding honor and entertaining the
speaking tradition, Washington and Lee’s third maxim
should he “love it or leave it.”

Too often I read articles denouncing W&L idiosyncra-
sies, the very features that make this

and usually a lot of it. So it’s like Nietzche said, “If every-
one is guilty, then no one is guilty.” So I figure, if every-
one has a lot of work to do, then no one has a lot of work
to do. Life really isn’t that bad.

The onslaught of work is the

school unique. Or I’ll hear a vague mur-
mur of complaints lingering around the

KCo- op. Or l’ll see students carrying

O 1 ,8 FX common lament most often swing-
Kiis Pollina ’05

mg by my ears. I can understand
how getting an education can

Atlas’s burden on their shoulders as
they sludge down the Colonnade.
For Christ’s sake, we’re 20 years old. What can be so

‘had? Oh my God, the workload. The stress. Why can’t

college just be beer and sex?

“Hey, what's up?”

“Ohhhh I have a 15 page paper to write by tomorrow,
an Econ test Thursday, 9,422,015 pages to read by Friday,

‘a beruit tournament Wednesday, a date function Friday,

tailgating on Saturday, AND I have to meet my roommates
at the Southern Inn in two hours.”
Oh, the humanity of it all. Yeah, everyone has work,

muddle your thoughts and make
you crartky. But what blows me away is when people com-
plain about the lack of diversity on campus. Or the honor
code. Or anxieties induced by date functions. What I love
the most is how much it infuriates people that everyone
wears J. Crew. You’d think that with that 15 page paper
due tomorrow you’d be worrying about other things. I
really haven’t found the popularity of Abercrombie all that
offensive, but I might be missing something.

Why would you go to W&L if you were in search of
variety? This is the last place I’d apply to if I wanted to be
amongst experimental fashion. And how can you com-

plain about the honor code when almost everyone relies on
it to safeguard their Banana cardigans? Another thing I
haven’t found much fault in are the insane excuses for
date parties. What’s the big deal? You get a date, you
get a date. You don’t — will you be marked as a social
pariah and given a separate table in the D-hall? I don’t
think the social chairmen of W&L planned it with the
cruel intention to alienate insecure students. I’m pretty
sure it’s just supposed to be fun. But once again, I might
be missing something.

Stop complaining. We’re young. We’re relatively intelligent.
We have something to do every weekend. We have ice cream.
We have beautiful days outside the Co-op. We have the
Simpsons, we have Britney Spears. What else is there?

I guess I’m claiming a certain degree of hypocrisy, in
complaining about how people complain too much. So
goes life. Is there anything that bad that can’t be solved
by a beer and a slice of Domino’s or a carton of Phish
Food? I didn’t think so. Stop pulling your hair out and go
meet your roommates at the Southern Inn.

‘Three cheers for Vermont and democracy

‘ Last April, following a state Su-
preiiie Court ruling which prompted a
bill legally recognizing homosexual
unions as marriages, the Vermont leg-

Kislature passed a bill that created “civil
unions. ’

The governor, Howard Dean, qui-
etly but quickly signed the bill into law.

4 Soon a ﬂood of 4

who had no signing ceremony so
“the healing could begin,” gleefully
affixed his signature.

However, the people of Vermont
have not forgotten this disregard for
their wishes and ﬂexed their electoral
muscle in last month’s primary by de-
clining to renorninate all ﬁve Repub-
licans who

Khomosexual
couples from
across the na-

 

Right of the aisle
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

voted for the
civil unions
bill, instead

tion inundated

Vermont, the only place in the world
' where they could get “C.U.ed.” Even

though Vermont is in the traditionally

liberal Northeast and is the only state

with a Socialist in Congress, this mea-

( sure has been considered totally unac-

ceptable by most of its citizens. To
them, and to others who value true rep-
resentative democracy, it represents a
judiciary. legislature, and executive who
have collectively forsaken representa-
tion in favor of politically-correct so-
cial engineering.

The case that spawned this ill—con—
¢ sidered legislation, Baker v. Vemiont, is
a shining example of the harm that ju-
dicial activism causes. The ruling is-
sued by the court mandated that the
legislature create a law granting all
rights and privileges of marriage to
homosexual couples. It completely ig-
tiored all constitutional checks and
balances requiring that the judiciary
‘ merely interpret laws, not create them.

The court vastly overstepped its
bounds and created rights that aren’t
in the Vermont Constitution, unabash-
edly legislating from the bench.

‘ The legislature followed orders with-
out a whisper of protest. Seemingly
unaware that not one town meeting, a
centuries old tradition of governance

‘ in the Green Mountain State, favored
civil unions for same—sex couples, the
legislature sent a bill on the govemor’s
desk only four months after the ruling
was handed down. Governor Dean,

opting for
candidates who stand in favor of tra-
ditional marriage. Governor Dean
also faces an unexpected challenge
from politically—unknown Ruth
Dwyer, who has based her campaign
on her opposition to civil unions.

The election has largely become
a referendum on same—sex unions.
The strong reaction of the people of
Vermont is not because of their op-
position to civil unions, but rather
because of the way in which the mea-
sure was foisted upon them. This
strong statement is due more to de-
mocracy’s circumvention than
same—sex unions’ recognition. Lib-
erals who forced homosexual
unions down the throats of Ver-
monters did so without their ap-
proval and without consulting them.

In return, this ﬁercely independent
state has launched “Take Back Ver-
mont,” “Take It To the People,” and
other grassroots movements in fa-
vor of traditional marriage. Voter reg-
istration is at an all—time high and
participation in the primary was also
unusually high.

Like Vermont, America will not
except the liberal social agenda that
many left—wing activists seek to im-
pose on our country through regu-
latory trickery and judicial action.
Liberal social crusaders should take
note of Verrnont’s example of democ-
racy in action and rethink their plans

for social engineering.

Enjoy the month of October

_ been in rerun all summer
  4. It’s the unofﬁcial “candy” month
Megan Mulligan & Katie Palcho 01

. @112 Tiling-tum lﬁlii

E.t'eL'l¢t‘ive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes

5. Daylight Savings Time Ends a.k.a. we gain an hour

 

News Editor Max Smith °f 31361’ ,
A.s‘si'.stu/it News‘ Editor Matt McDermott 6. October has 31 days so you don t feel cheated
I. 0]7ittimt.s' Editor Tara Ann Friedel Most people have a favorite food, song, band, or pair 7. Baseball Playoffs

W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
(‘ontributitzg Editors Jessica Jones
Michael Crittenden
Last Word Editor Bryan Early

of jeans. But have you ever taken a moment to think about 8. Halloween
your favorite calendar month? If so, you may be inclined 9. Friday the 13th
to choose April or May, when ﬂowers are blossoming and 10. Sitting on a porch with friends, listening 10 music, C C

birds are whistling. But give us a chance to test out our drinking a tasty beverage...Need we say more?

 of the week:

1 pt" 4' L‘ ' . . . . x . . , - - - - -
P]wn:::mEp C:l";nL'1;mhe” persusive journalistic skills, to convince you that October So let s see some October spirit on the W&L campus.  ‘tll I  my 
Mary Guy should be your favorite month. Here is a list of “The 10 Go for a drive, play in the leaves, carve a pumpkin and eat

to class.

—- Anonymous male professor

Martha Edwards
Graphics Monica Schoenthaler
‘ Online Editor Ginger Phillips
Bl4.YIIlL’.S‘.S' Manager Paul Seifert

The Ring—tt.mt Phi is published Mondays during the
uiidergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
Lexington. Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications
Board elects the Executive Editor, but The Rirtg—tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Rt'ng—tmn Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
in that wcek’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
columns do not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

some Mary Janes. (As a side-note, Megan would like to
1_ F311 Reading Days say, that while she does enjoy October and supports this
2, Homecoming column, she does not share my extreme passion for this

3. Season Premieres of our favorite shows that have month.) ? ’

TALKback: What are you doing for Fall Break?

Greatest Things About October.”

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
‘ Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi

   

“I’m going to the University of I
Virginia to visit friends of friends.”
—Rob Burnside ‘04

‘‘I’m going to stay around to do a
little work and have some fun.”
Jonathan Wortham ‘04

‘‘I’m going to visit a friend in New
York City.”
—Kathryn Drinkard ‘O4

“I’ni going home for a wedding.”
—Cataiina Pas sidomo

‘ I Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

PAGE 4

O

(The iliing-tum ilﬂht

PINION

OCTOBER 9, 2000!

Sorting out the “fuzzy math”

After watching the Presidential
debates last week, much remains a
mystery. How did Bush manage to
sound knowledgeable about the is-
sues? Is “fuzzy math” a credit course
at St. Alban’s or Harvard? For that

dates’ political twisting of the num-
bers more than their discussion of
Bush’s tax proposal. I only mention
Bush’s because Gore did not seem to
have one that could be explained co-
herently. Bush rightly accused Gore

 

matter, how of using
did Arnold “fuzzy math”
Schwarzeneager :5?   when attack-
. , ' h"
?$Z““g§I§§f§ Mike Agneﬂo 02 315... ‘S153’;
surgery and math itself

the vocal implants to facially and au-
dibly resemble Al Gore? Last time I
looked, Gore did not have a twenty-
four inch neck. Kidding aside, we need
to take a good hard look at these two
clowns and see how what they say
they’re going to do matches up with
actual reality. ’

No issue displayed both candi-

was not false, but it ignored an entire
set of ﬁgures.

Bush’s inability to respond effec-
tively from his hip pocket prevented
him from pointing out that regardless
of the benefits rich people incur un-
der his plan, an additional six million
American families would no longer
pay federal income tax. Gore, who is

to a poll. The results are shown at right.

I photo byLisa Lin/Photo Editor
DEBATE WATCH 2000. Last Tuesday night nearly 100 students and faculty screened
the debate with the Politics Department. Afterwards, 57 of the watchers responded

“fighting for working families” and
just about every other group you can
think of, should have praised Bush
for his doubling of the child tax credit.

Bush, who has an edge over Gore
on the education issue, bore the wrath
of the Vice-President Gore when he
alleged that the portion of Bush’s tax
cut benefiting the top one percent
amounted to more than his proposed
spending increases on education,
Medicare, and Social Security com-
bined. Even though this tax cut is ten
percent or less, this is a no-brainer.
These 2.8 million are paying most of
the bills, and only getting a small
crumb in return. By W’s reasoning,
everybody can be happy with this.
When Bush says he means to return
some of the budget surplus to “you
folks who pay the bills,” there’s an

unspoken elaboration: “Especially
y’all who don’t get 90 percent of your
taxes back at the end of the year.”

Most importantly, voters need to
remember one thing: Neither candi-
date is talking about real numbers.
Whether you choose to believe them
or not, the figures are based on the
projected budget surplus for the fol-
lowing year. A smaller surplus would
leave Bush with less to offer, and Gore
more political opportunity. A larger
one would favor Bush.

Even if you are a simple—n1inded
person who says, “I vote with my
checkbook,” you are in for a hard de-
cision. The best you can hope for, and
indeed the best America can hope for,
is that you put aside your shallow
notions of self—interest and vote for
the greater good of the country.

The Politics Department
Debate Watch Poll

Partv identiﬁcation: Who won?
59.7% Republican 31.6% Gore
19.3% Independent 22.8% Bush
15.8% Democrat 40.3% No one

5.3% Libertarians

Pre-debate Qreterence:
l .8 % Buchanan
56% Bush

19.3% Gore
21% Undecided
1.8% Not voting

Opinion Shift after debate:

lperson Gore to Bush
2 people Undecided to Gore
lperson Gore to Undecided

52 people Unaffected

The poll was compiled by Lee Wheeler, Charlie Boisky and Brooks Batcheller.

-.s-.. —_r-

         

N

ﬂflk -£1:

      

:- -. .:3«.-1-:'x u 3-.-. .~. .

azete

1

109 scum JEFFERSON STREET
TEL: 540-463-3116 FAX: 540-463-3171
www.n-gprintshop.com

XEROX copy PRICES

8 1/2 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond
$0.10 per copy
501-1000 $0.09 per copy
1001-2000 $0.08 per copy
Over 2001 $0.07 per copy

1-500

11 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond

$0.20 per copy

, 501-1000 $0.18 per copy
1001-2000 $0.16 per copy
Over 2001 $0.14 per copy

1-500

Two sided copies go at two times (2x) the rate.
Paper other than white 20 lb. goes at copy price + paper cost.

BINDERY WORK

Minimum $5.00 or $40.00 per hour

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

-£2a'.".:A;=.'L

BY RICHARD? s I 9“

DIRECTED ‘Y ALG

 

:;§ lnterviélnisfithrougli '

ADVANCE YOUR CAREER. FAST.

Start off your new career managing a SCORE! Educational
Center for kids. From there, you'll be trained in sales, marketing
and management so that you’ll have the entrepreneurial skills to I
move up quickly. If you want a job where the only thing that can

slow you down is your own ambition, visit www.scorej0bs.c0m.

  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
      
   

  

 

‘ii

A

 

W&

PAGE 5

 2 ﬂing-tum lﬁlrt

OCTOBER 9, 2000

photo courtesey of Lenfest Press
FRIENDLY BANTER: Sir Peter (senior Howard Sanborn) and Lady Teasle (senior Cassie Ritter) tease each other in a scene
from this month’s play, School for Scandal. The play opens October 20, with a showing at 8 p.m. Tickets are available at the
Lenfest Center box office.

Radiohead’s Kid A is the new punk album

 

By Michael Crittenden
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

After a long weekend of getting beat
down and wearing myself down, there
needed to be a light at the end of the
tunnel. Luckily there was, in the form
of Abita’s Purple Haze, a fine ale from
Abita Springs, La. Though I tend to be
skeptical when confronted with a beer
whose name is a catchy allusion, Purple
Haze lives up to its classic-rock roots
and delivers a ﬁne raspberry ale.

Crafted by the Abita Brewing
Company in Louisiana, Purple Haze
is a classic American wheat beer that
has raspberries added during a cru-
cial second-fermenation. A slightly
murky amber, the beer has a distinc-
tive berry smell that sets the stage for
the soothing taste of raspberry ale.

Though I am not a berry beer type
of guy, Purple Haze satisﬁes due to its

carefully crafted background. The beer
is brewed with Abita spring water, found
on an ancient Chocktaw Indian reserva-
tion inliousiana. 'lhe wateris pulled ﬁom
a deep well for each batch of beer.

Abita is also notable for its use of
three different hops and a number of
yeasts, which are the backbone to a
quality ale. Pale, crystal and choco-
late malts are combined in the brew-
ing process with yeast, water and
hops to make this a pure beer without
the preservatives found in other
beers. Though it makes Purple Haze’s
shelf life a tad shorter than most beers,
the ﬁne taste makes it worth it.

Overall, I give Purple Haze a 7 out of
10 on the year 2000 Beer-O’Rama scale
(one point deducted out of principle
for it being a fruity beer). A good au-
tumn ale to have around the holidays
or with some chicken or pork kabobs,
Purple Haze is worth the chance if you
are trying to decide on a different wheat
beer for your next get together.

You can find out more information
about Purple Haze or Abita’s many
other fine brews at www.abita.com. It
can be purchased at various stores in
town, but your best bet is Main St.
Market, where a six-pack is about $6.

If you have suggestions for pos-
sible beers to be reviewed, email me
at crittendenm@ w1u.edu. Otherwise,
until next week have a great Reading
Days and tip back a glass for me.

By Heather McDonald

. STAFF WRITER

Imagine a wasteland, the kind T.S.
Elliot made famous. Imagine angry—look-
ing bears with sniper riﬂes on a land-
scape of snow—white sharp angles, vol-
canoes and grey—red skies. It could be
a ﬁlm, but no, it’s Radiohead’s long
awaited CD Kid A.

 

  

The Bends it is not. It is a concept
CD, a rock opera, a painting in sound.
It is experimental, postmodernist, both
ugly and beautiful. If it sounds like I’m
analyzing a poem, well, I just might be.
After the great alt—rock angst—ridden
Bends and OK Computer, (not to men-
tion the ever—popular Pablo Honey),
Kid A is about something new, blend-
ing ambient sounds electronica—inﬂu-

   

ences and general Thom—Yorke—
ishness. I want to call it the prototype
for a new era in music (possibly hence
the title?), but in this age of “Total Re-
quest Live” I do not blame the masses
for not understanding anything out of
the three main genres blared across
Top 40 stations everywhere (those
three genres are boy bands/Christina/

I Britney/Mandy/whoever’s 14, blonde

and has breasts, the generic angry hard
rock band of the moment, and the new-
est perversion of something that used
to be hip-hop). I ' '

had only that in mind while creating an
aural masterpiece. In the grand tradi-
tion of the Radiohead rumor, it might
be fun background music for other ac-
tivities as well.

Kid A is a CD for the true music
lover, especially those who go beyond
the liner notes and simply sit and lis-
ten. Beyond the initial sales, I predict
Kid A will be a commercial ﬂop. In 20
years, bands will be talking about this
CD and how it’s inﬂuenced them. In
the meantime, I’ll simply be listening to
the CD for the hell of it.

 

ph
HARD AT WORK: Crittenden searches for another quality beer
to test his sophisticated palatte.

  

mm

H Eily Bes/Executive Editor

 published since 1897. Obtain a weekly subscription

When R.E.M. put outAutomaticf0r

the People, they declared it a punk al-
bum. Why? Because it went against all
the grunge, all the generic alternative
music with which R.E.M. is usually clas-
siﬁed. Kid A is the new punk album. It
is unlike anything you’ve ever heard
and, chances are, no one will truly un-
derstand it. I know I don’t, but I do like
it.

Kid A is a soundtrack — but for
what, no one’s sure. One review Iread
declared it the perfect accessory for the
stylish stoner, but I doubt Radiohead

Subscribe to the Phi!

If you would like to keep up with events at
Washington and Lee, subscribe to W&L’s campus
newspaper. Get the news ﬁrst--get it from the Phi,

 

photo court .y of ww .g npla. . '
NEW AND IMPROVED: Radiohead released their latest album, Kid
_ A, on October 3.

   

     

in one easy step.

Just send a $30 check to:

Ring-tum Phi
University Center

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

   
   

4, I.  Town & vcountryl ,

31 $txu »-  saw-t.  VA .2445». ,

 

18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

  PROBLEM WITH THE LOCALS ?

WE’RE FROM ATLANTA.

AT THIS TIME WE ARE STILL ABLE TO ABSORB THE HIGH
COST OF ENTERTAINMENT- SO WE NEVER CHARGE
STUDENTSA COVER CHARGE!

DON’T MISS ouR MoNDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
PARTY wITH .25 CENT HoT wINg_S ~ _2_ fog;
A£ﬁTIZEI§S AND SPECIALS wE CAN’T ADVERTISE

HERE !

SuNDAY wE o1>EN AT NooN - ouR
KITCHEN ISMAKING SoME or THE BEST
FOOD IN TowN - THE 12 W5 HAVE UP To
5 DIFFERENT NFL FOOTBALL GAMES
some AT THE SAME TIME - KEEP u? wITH
YouR HoME TEAM wITH ALL THE

COMFORT 5 OF HOME.

*wE BUILT THIS PLACE wIIH XQLI IN MIND. IF
You HAvEN’T 1—'OuI\I’D uS YET You NEED To GET
our MoRE. THE T. v.’S, POOL TABLES, vIDEo_
GAMES, FOOSBALL TABLES, DART MACHINES,
DANCE FLOOR, AND LIBATIONS ARE HERE To TAKE
YouR MIND or? YouR DAY. HAVING FuN IS o1<:*

 

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 ﬁling-tum Elﬂht

PORTS

OCTOBER 9, 2000  

Generals roll over week’s co

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The women’s soccer team won two
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
games at home this week, edging
Emory & Henry 1-0 and hammering
Guilford by a 10-1 score.

The Generals defeated Emory & Henry
by a seemingly narrow margin on Tues-
day. In actuality, the Generals dominated
the game, outshooting the Wasps 46-0.
Emory & Henry goalkeeper Melissa Berry
stopped 23 shots to keep her team in the
contest.

The Wasps’ defense was the true
story of the game, stopping the Gener-
als repeatedly, as most of Berry’s saves
were from long shots. The Generals’
only goal came with 13:10 left in the
game, when senior Sam Garbisch took
a shot that hit the post. Freshman
Heather Coleman scored off the re-
bound for the game-winning goal.

The 10-1 score of Washington and
Lee’s game against Guilford on Satur-
day was more indicative of the Gener-
als’ domination. Freshman Fontaine
Marcoux opened the scoring halfway
through the first half after a shot from
junior Kate Bidwell hit the post.

“Once we score one, we get some

confidence and it comes together,”
senior captain Liz Olsen said.

Sophomore Ruth-Hill Yeilding
scored the second goal off an assist
from freshman Sara Jurkowsky. The
Generals’ third goal came with two
minutes left in the second half, when
Yeilding passed to Bidwell, who put
the ball over the head of goalkeeper
Jenny Akman.

Nine minutes into the second half,
sophomore Jenny Thomas, who had
previously been denied by Akman,
scored an unassisted goal. Three min-
utes later, Thomas beat two defend-
ers in the Quakers’ zone and passed
to Marcoux, who notched her second
goal of the game to put W&L up 5-0.

One minute later, Akman tackled a
General i11 the penalty box. Freshman
Meghan Hayde scored on the ensu-
ing penalty kick to extend W&L’s ad-
vantage to six goals.

Five minutes after the Hayde tally,
Marcoux went in alone against Akman,
but was denied the hat-trick goal. With 19
minutes left in the half, freshman
Susannah Hewlett went in alone and won
a loose ball for an empty-net goal. Soon
afterwards, Yeilding took a shot that

Akman was unable to control, and"

Hewlett picked up the loose ball for her

   

WALK IN THE PARK. Junior Kate Bidwell moves the ball upfield
in the Generals’ 10-1 win over Guilford on Saturday.

second goal of the game.

Guilford scored their only goal with
7:27 left in the game, when Megan
Barolet-Fogarty deflected a shot past
senior Lauren Harris.

“We are still struggling,” head
coach Jan Hathom said of the W&L
defense. “We don’t contain people,
and that’s why that one goal went in.”

Freshman Heather Coleman scored

   

. O O . . .
mp   Upcomm g events In General athletzcs... "
. Football
 » Sat. October 14 Hampden-Sydney 1:00 p.m.
Sat. October 21 Sewanee (Homecoming) 1:30 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Sat. October 14 Virginia State Meet TBA
Riding
Fri. October 20 at Hollins TBA
Men’s Soccer
Wed. October 11 at Eastern Mennonite 4:00p.rn.
Fri. October 13 at Manhattanville 4:00 p.m.
Sun. October 15 at Emory & Henry 1:30 p.m.
Thu. October 19 Bridgewater 4:00 p.m.
Sat. October 21 St. Mary’s (Md.) 3:00 p.1n.
V I p Women’s Soccer
photo by Colin Mitchell/Staff Photographer Wed October  Holhns _  pin‘
Sat. October 14 at Carnegie Mellon 1:00 p.m.
Wed. October 18 Fenum 4:00 p.m.
Sat. October 21 Roanoke 1 1:00 a.m.
for the Generals with 3:18 left in the Volleyball
game eff 311 355151 ffeﬂl Senief Tues. October 10 at Eastern Mennonite 6:30p.m.
Courtney N013“ Yelldmg 383111 Seered Sat. October 14 at Goucher Tournament TBA
when Olsen fan dew“ the left 51de and Wed. October 18 Sweet Briar 6:30 p.m.
gave a perfect feed for the ﬁnal goal Sat. October 21 Hollins 1:00 p.m.
“Our ball possession was good and
people played well together,” Hathom womenas Tennis
Said Ofthe Overallteam effolt . October 14-15 W&L Fall Festival 8:30 am.
The Genera-15 (7-4, 5-3 ODAC) W111 October 19-23 at Rolex National Tournament TBA
host Hollins on Wednesday at 4:00 p.m.

Catholic knocks W&L from ranks of football unbeaten

W&L sports roundup

had the whole package.”
Senior tailback Marc Watson, who set a school record

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Catholic limited Washington and Lee to just 46 yards
of total offense, and Dan Boyle rushed for 197 yards and
four touchdowns as the Cardinals rolled over the Gener-
als 47-0 Saturday in Washington, D.C.

“What happened was just a bunch of pressure from
their defensive front,” W&L coach Frank Miriello said of
the Cardinals’ defense, which held the Generals to minus-
six yards rushing. “They just nulliﬁed our run game, and
they put a lot of pressure on our quarterbacks, so they

with 319 total yards last week in a 34-6 win over Randolph-
Macon, was limited to 14 rushing yards on 14 carries.

“Mark, instead of having room to run, never got a clear
shot at any inside or outside running game,” Miriello said
of Watson. “He never got a chance to run north and south,
because most of his running was east and west."

Despite the loss, the postseason aspirations of the
Generals (4-1, 2-1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference) are
still ﬂickering.

“We’re still in the hunt for the ODAC title,” Miriello
said. “Catho1ic’s got some tough games coming up in the
conference (in Emory & Henry and Bridgewater).

MostW&LSfuclen’rs

      US‘!/\l eolsol   

1 and Health
Educaﬁon:
Office

Based on W&L CORESurvey data from 1998, 1999, 20001 '

“We have to beat Hampden-Sydney — there’s no ques-
tion about it. It’s a must-game for us, and we’re treating it
that way.”

W&L runs in Dickinson meet

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross ‘

country teams ﬁnished in the middle of the pack out of 39
teams in Saturday’s Dickinson Invitational in,Carlisle, Pa.

The women’s team placed 16th in the meet, led by
sophomore Burke Duncan, who ﬁnished 27th overall with
a time of 19:44. Senior Jessica Panillo ran a 20:09, good
enough for 45th overall.

The Generals ﬁnished 23rd in the men’s meet. Freshman
Andy Schorr ran a 28:03 to lead W&L, ﬁnishing 73rd overall.

Generals open tennis season

The Generals’ women’s tennis team opened its season
with individual and doubles competition in the Rolex South-
east Regional Sept. 30 through Oct. 2 at Mary Washing-
ton College in Fredericksburg, Va.

Junior Melissa Hatley and sophomore Erika Proko ad-
vanced to Monday’s ﬁnals before falling to Lea Schon and
Ashley Knapp of Mary Washington. Hatley finished fourth
in singles competition for the Generals.

Three of W&L’s four doubles teams made it to the

semiﬁnal round of the tournament. The teams of sopho-
more Laura Bruno and freshman Elizabeth Law and of
sophomores Alyson Brice and Brandi Jane Wedgeworth
both lost in the semifinals.

Session 1/ Test 1
Session 2
Session 3
Session 4
Session 5/Test 2
Session 6
Session 7
Session 8
Session 9/Test 3
Session 10

KAPLAN LSAT Prep Classes

SCHEDULE FOR THE DECEMBER 2 EXAM
(CLASSES WILL MEET FROM 6PM-9PM)

Tuesday, October 17 5
Thursday, October 19
Tuesday, October 24
Thursday, October 26
Tuesday, October 31
Thursday, November 2
Tuesday, November 7
Thursday, November 9
Tuesday, November 14
Thursday, November 16

(1-800-KAP-TEST)

.THE-

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

October 9: Mjndbending Productions

  

J AVA AT

coFFEEpeopleMusIcmore

October 16: Open Mike Night

GHQ

1&

I

 

 

F

)0OCTOBER 9, 2000

  S

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

PAGE 7 T.

‘I.

  By Sarah Griggi 5

SPORTS wrirrze

 After a successful .-week 7- of
‘matches, the Washington and Lee

Eiiicluding a5-I maﬁrintheO1C.1Domin-

 
   
   
  
   
 
  

 Tuesday and Randolph-Macon‘
%32Yonien’s College on Samrday.  0
 . W&L wonTuesday’s match. 
*§three»gaInes, 15-9,15-1,0, 1,5-8’; Junior.
1 Vindsjay Ruckert and freshman

gkills -1- Rnckert with ‘-136 atidjshelton
‘recorded. an impressive 20: assists
fiwas not far,behindwitl1”t7,  .,  ‘ ‘

.  " .‘i‘Tl1cy’are one of the better tearns‘
in the ODAC, but wereally didn’t

f ‘volleyball team stands at 10-5 overall, 7

' {ion A.th1et'ic Conference. The Genet-‘_ ~
.1313 defeated Randoph-Macon College .

 Shelton. led the Generalsin’  _- _ L V
A _ A j V p L L Q -ODAC tournament, butthe team has
with '11. Senior setter I’am Saiilsbary .

Effwhile senior setter Katherine Kline. j  
good team? Saulsbuiy said. “We
need to concentrate on beating them

Q  continuesto breeze
4 through O])ACschedule

have too much trouble with them,”
said“ Saulsbury, one of the team’s
captains.

. Saturday’s,rnatch was another
easy Generals’, victory, with scores
of 15-4, 15-3, and 15-3. Shelton once
again led with.12 kiils, and Kline and

‘sophomore Stacy Kimmel contrib-
uted to the win withfour aces each.

Kline and Saulsbury each recorded
* 4 10 assists. 0
‘W&L travels next 5 to

fﬂarrisonburg for a match against
"Eastern Mennonite this Tuesday.

Nine matches remain before the

itssights set on winning 'I'uesday’s

. contest.

1‘?Ea_stern Mennonite is always a

first before any others.”

3

ODAC Football Update

Standings ODAC Overall

Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
Emory&Henry 2 0 74 49 4 1 152 73
lWashington&Lee 2 1 65 59 4 1 142 85
Bridgewater 1 1 65 49 4 1 139 82
Catholic 1 1 75 31 2 3 127 103
Hampden-Sydney 1 2 75 67 2 3 126 118
_ Randolph-Macon 1 2 61 90 2 4 97 185
Guilford 1 2 34 104 1 4 47 186

October 7 Results

Catholic 47, W&L 0

Emory & Henry 37, Hampden-

Sydney 14

Guilford 28, Randolph-Macon 24
Bridgewater 14, Maryville 10

1

Saturday’s Games
Hampden-Sydney at W&L
Bridgewater at Guilford
Randolph-Macon at Emory & Henry
Catholic at Methodist

.-_

October 21 Games

Sewanee at W&L

Catholic at Hampden-Sydney
Emory & Henry at Guilford
Randolph-Macon at Davidson
Johns Hopkins at Bridgewater

October 28 Games

W&L at Bridgewater

Catholic at Emory & Henry
Ferrum at Guilford

Davidson at Hampden-Sydney

Roanoke snaps W&L win streak

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team dropped a crucial game
to Roanoke College, then rebounded
against Guilford to improve their
record to 8-1-0 (5-1-0 in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference).

The Generals went to Roanoke on
Wednesday to ﬁght for ODAC domi-
nation. Prior to the midweek matchup,
which the Maroons won 2- 1, Roanoke
and W&L were the only two remain-
ing undefeated teams in conference
play.

_ The two squads played to a score-
less draw at halftime, a tie that ex-
tended past the break. Late in the sec-
ond half, Maroon Regi Francois put
his team in front with a shot that de-
ﬂected off a W&L defender into the
goal. Ryan Pﬂugrad scored the sec-
ond Roanoke goal a few minutes later.

Junior Andrew Grimes struck back
for the Generals with four mintes left
in the contest, scoring off a pass from
freshman Philip Miller. Roanoke
goaltender Chris Ebeling kept the
Generals from tying the match, ﬁnish-
ing with three saves on the afternoon.
Sophomore Tim Foley made three
saves for the Generals.

“We didn’t play up to our poten-
tial,” defender Ryan Nelson said.
“They also had fortune on their side
and we didn’t.”

W&L head coach Rolf Piranian
agreed, stating that “it was a very even
game.”

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    

 y ‘Co In I chelll/Sta-ff Pholirgraphcr
BOXING our. Senior Jacek Mucha attempts to keep the ball
from a Guilford defender during W&L’s 3-0 win on Saturday.

in the first half,” Nelson said.

W&L had several scoring chances
before halftime, however. With 10:35
left in the ﬁrst half, sophomore Brad

The Generals won Saturday’s
game against the Guilford Quakers 3-
0 despite a shaky first half.

“We were just playing kick and run

  
 

 

Murphy broke free in the Quakers’
end, but an offside call abruptly ended
the threat. The half ended with both
teams tied 0-0.

“We just didn’t come out to play
that half,” Grimes said.

The Generals opened the second
half with considerably more offensive
pressure. Four minutes into the half,
junior David Kodack took a shot that
evaded Quaker goaltender Ryan
Fitzgibbons but sailed just over the
crossbar. Ten minutes later, senior Jon
Wilson took a shot that went over the
goal as well.

Wilson scored with 28:42 left in the
match on an unassisted tally. Seven
minutes later, Grimes took a pass from
freshman Bret Grote, but his shot hit
the crossbar.

Grimes scored his eighth goal of
the season with 14 minutes left in the
half when he took a pass from Murphy
and put it over Fitzgibbons’ head.
Murphy added the third goal with
eight minutes remaining on the clock.

Foley made two saves to earn his
second shutout of the season. At the
other end of the ﬁeld, Fitzgibbons tal-
lied seven saves.

Senior Andy Crawford was named
the ODAC player of the week for his
three goals and one assist against
Hampden-Sydney and Lynchburg on
Sept. 28th and 30th. _

The Generals now face a three-
game road trip, with contests against
Eastern Mennonite, Manhattanville,
and Emory & Henry. They return
home Oct. 19 to face Bridgewater.

 

 

PAGE 8

Because I was the
only person who
volunteered for it

LASTW

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂhi

ORD

OCTOBER 9, 2000

Uncle Bryan is Non-Oﬁensive Fable

Once upon a time, there
lived a very special rabbit
named Little Bunny Foo-Foo.
sbelivedin thewoodsina
special forest reserve set
up by the Sierra Club to be a
sanctuary for the endangered
spotted owl and the California
condor. Little Bunny Foo-Foo
lived with her mother,
father, and twelve brothers
and sisters in a nice medium
sized hole under an old growth
redwood. Her family was very
careful when they made their

. home as to not damage the

tree or do irreparable harm
to the local ecosystem.
Bunny Foo-Foo 's parents
loved their children in a
wholesome, completely
Christian way. may brought
up their children with lots
of morals and religion and
kept them away from evil
things like the media and
society. Papa Foo-Foo worked
very hard for his family,
ga th ering pl en ty of
vegetation for everyone to
eat. Mama Foo-Foo kept the
hovel clean and took care of
all of her bunny children.
Sanetimes the Foo—Foos had
problems and got into
squahbles, but for the most
part they lived a good life

together. may laughed, they
cried, had good times, had
bad times, and shared their
triumphs as well as their
failures. It was a very happy
bunny fam.i.Z_y.

ane time Little Bunny Foo-
Ibo, the youngest of the Foo-
Foo family, was hopping
through the forest. She
scooped up lots of field mice
and bopped them an the head.
Little Bunny Foo-Foo had a
psychological disorder that
made her want to bop things
an thehead... especiallyfield
m.ice. mis disorder was not
Little Bunny Foo-Foo's fault
-- she was born that way. mus,
Little amny Foo-Foo could not
be held accountable in any way
for her actions.

Little Bunny Foo-Foo had
many friends at the local
Critter Elementary School.
Mzile her school was attendend.
by mostly bunnies, it prided
itself for being diverse and
open to an.imals of all sorts.
It had foxes, turtles,
beavers, several deer, and
even a bear cub.

Little Bunny Foo-Ibo loved
going to school because she
got to learn about fun things
like hole-digging, plant-
ea ting, ' running-from-big-

scary-animals, and multi-
variable calculus. Little Rznny
!'oo—ioo got wonderful grades
in all her classes. Her
favorite class was ﬁbecause
she got to hop around and bop
other animals on the head.
Mzile the other animals di@'t
appreciate getting bopped an
the head, they were enliﬁtened
enough to realize that since
Little Bunny Foo-Foo had a
disorder she coulh ’t be held
acountable for her actions.

are day though, Little Bunny
!'oo—Ibo went overto the house
of her friend, Carla the Fox.
While Little Bunny Foo-Foo’s
mother had never told her
that foxes weren't nice
animals, the Foo-Foos never
had any foxes over to the
family hovel. Although, she
had some reservations,
Little Bunny Foo-Foo went
over to the Fox Bole anyway.
She was summarily eaten by
the Fox family because that's
what foxes do-it's not the
foxes fault that bunnies
taste so good.

we end.

*2'he moral of the story
is: Don't be friends with
anything higher up on the
food chain than you.

  y i 1. Stay upplateiiritoiithe

I 4. Play Ska music" I Q A   .  
5. Dorftdo your laundry  ever or
6. Bring home stray Camie folk

,   7. Say you find him or her S
I “strangely attractive”

8. Take a vow of silence or a vow

  Top? Wys t0B<5’1’¢"  
  Your Roommate   

Watching re-rungs of sFrz'erzds
2. Giveupbathing           I
.Dec1are the room clothing a ,4
optional and walklaroundi ‘  
T’   wearing only sandals S ’ S S

L0

  of non-silence   y I
9. Scream every time your room-
mate uses the letter “W” in a

iprepositional phrase  

Don ‘t believe the urordr that I ray.

I only write them oaure they're Ian-nay.
I don ‘t mean to ollend the average bloke/.
Only to get a /mile from my gooly joker.
It '1 not like they pay me.

-- tort lllord Editor

Mom btswl 07: me use

If you take $19.37 from the penny tray at Kwik Mart, but only give back
a nickel and a gum wrapper; are you ungentlemanly or just a jerk?

SA TYPiCAL D/_’\“\’ ‘Ma

1\r\oN§l¢,A $C.Ho€NTl-lAl.EQ

You know, elections are a sign of the impending doom of society. The media, the
radical ecoterrorists, and Stephen Baldwin are all part of a vast leftist conspiracy
designed to subvert the minds of people into believing we live in an actual
democracy where the real wills of the populace are reflected in our government.
Fools, the country is really run by none other than Timothy Leary, whose acid-
induced visions will pervert our country with such crazy things as government
paid prescripition drugs and Pokemon.

 

l

3(,I.'¢_ki‘ ICIOO\«k*

3!: Scraper

    

’r Chan-:k*

‘ @\§"    Cari

  ai aln

M
O
é
.’-‘A
)
X

HAVE M10651
QAMPUS? HAVE THE’
veemees G_\‘”‘-“
(3.; To THE'(
NEANDEKTHAL.

y AND‘ DKA assist. us
To THEM miss?

WHAT ~-H\eI_:l_E_l,_t. :5 ‘mar miss?’
Is it Pram? WA: Dew-45

URGES AND 6
s1Asts_o ‘»
woMEN Lu<I‘-.' -' 7
BA$‘( SEALS

  
 

cg fygezuf its
comtue. ctoseﬂ.
MM em RAVE

MEQL1’ ON cunt

saw! ‘-5!

I

     
 
  
  
 
 

1

 51 Pin F9966-'~*
“R °'   ewes.

   

 

dz

 

 

highlighing, manicuring, pedicuring, waxing

walk-ins welcome
117 W. Relson Street
Lexington. V1’! 24450

540-463-9588 _

Steve's “.Keal""BTBTQ. Catering

4 - _ — Specializing In I
_ Whole Pigs -— Hickory Smoked Ribs and B.B.Q

'7 5 Beans Bottom Rd., Lexington, VA
540-462-3769

“Have Cooker Will Travel”

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

. “" r
u(lt)()((:\"II‘I(/ (VIII)/)((I‘Iy

ENJOY CHESS 0 CHECKERS ' BACKGAMMON - & MORE!
ESPRESSO 0 CAPPUCCINO ' FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ' FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON ° 464-6586

 

hf

