I

K

C’

V

 Arab
2 3312.755
,_ _ﬁ5§?‘.,
'_ V403
I ’/000:6

("2-

  

3:‘
re

VOLUME 103, No. 16

A Campus survives another

%aSororities adopt new terms, but

‘through it all the songs remain
the same

1 By Latrina Stokes & Matthew McDermott

STAFF WRITER & ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

3 Washington & Lee's sorority hopefuls no longer rush for
_ bids. Instead, prospective members engage in formal member-
ship recruitment for acceptance cards.

According to Panhellenic Advisor and Director of Student
Affairs Teresa Glassman, the change in terms, handed down
from the National Panhellenic Council, corresponds to changes

, in the process of joining a sorority. .
A Glassman said that potential members are no longer called
 rushees because the term has negative connotations.

“We’re looking more to recruit new members rather than
having women rushing down our door,” Glassman said.

The changes in the sorority recruitment vocabulary corre-
spond with other changes as well.

“New words, new houses, new decor. This has been _a real
transition year. New advisor, too,” said junior Katie Cedarholrn,
Panhellenic Recruitment Chair.

She added that the new houses have allowed the sororities
to adopt a “no frills approach,” releasing members from deco-
rating rooms in the University Center.

This is a relief to Cedarholm, who with other Panhellenic
officers, worked in the recruitment office for at least 12 hours
a day last week contending with invitations, party lists and

. distribution rolls.

Though there are changes, “all of the technical stuff is the
same,” said senior Elizabeth Holleman, President of the
Panhellenic Council. She and other members of the Panhellenic
Council believe that this year’s recruitment went off without
any serious mishaps.

Glassman agrees.

“From the viewpoint of an outsider looking in, the process
has been really smooth,” she said. “People seem to be enjoy-
ing themselves.” '

2001 Men’s Pledge Statistics

Winter 2001

Phi Kappa Sigma 21 Sigma  Epsilon 13
Kappa Alpha 18 Lambda Chi Alpha 12
Phi Kappa Psi 15 Chi Psi ll
Pi Kappa Phi 15 Sigma Chi 11
Phi Gamma Delta 15 Beta Theta Pi. 9

Kappa Sigma Phi Delta Theta 8

Sigma Alpha Epsilon 13 Sigma Nu 3

Pi Kappa Alpha 13

Total: 191 '
Pecentage of Freshmen Males Pledging: 76%
Freshmen Males Ineligible Because of Grades: 20

facts compiled by Mike Agnello

‘ﬂing-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrTY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Rush numbers remain
constant with years past

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Freshmen joined Greek organizations at equal
or higher rates than last year, despite widespread
rumors to the contrary.

Seventy-six percent of freshman males pledged
fraternities, a rate nearly identical to last year’s.
Only three houses had fewer than ten pledges.
Seventy—seven percent of freshmen females ac-
cepted bids from a sorority Friday, up eight per-
cent from the previous year. All sororities had
between 29 and 32 pledges, the most even distri-
bution in three years.

Senior Trey Overdyke, Interfraternity Council
Justice, said the numbers speak for themselves.

“That just shows that frats are still an intergal
part of this school, and people still want to join
them,” Overdyke said.

Formal Rush for men began on Tuesday, when
they attended one or two rush dates at fraternity
houses. This schedule was repeated on Wednes-
day, and then each rushee had the opportunity to
accept two bids on Friday. They had until Satur-
day to decide where to pledge. I

Dean of Students David Howison visited. all
15 fraternity houses Saturday night,‘ and was

SMILE. Celebrating at the chapter house, new members of the Kappa Alpha Theta sorority have their picture taken by a Theta sister.

 

pleased with Tear Night and Rush Week in gen-
eral.

“[It was] a much more controlled situation rela-
tive to past experiences . . . [but] we’ve still got a
long way to go,” Howison said.

Freshman Parks Brown, who pledged Kappa
Alpha, said the formal Rush process could use
some improvement.

“I thought the whole Rush process was a little
unrealistic . . . [expecting us to pick] four houses
seemed like too much,” Brown said.

ear of Rush

  
 
 

JAMES  1.5-":;.=,-;.t» ; ;.— -A .._
WA3HlN£3'F€2=3\‘  a::S4i3¢e:wvW:ii*/

1""'..‘ .\.:i\-

 1‘-J TON, ‘~12! ,2£-Qﬁ

J 182001

   

MONDAY, JANUARY 15, 2001

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

photo by Emily Bamesl Executive Editor
THE FIRST SUPPER. Rushing freshmen dine at the Chi Psi Lodge

Freshman Tim Smith, who pledged Lambda
Chi Alpha, said he was also disappointed in
some aspects of Rush even though he enjoyed
his own experience.

“The number of guys balled really disap-
pointed me, because the frats seemed so
friendly [during fall terrn],” Smith said.

Despite his Inisgivings, Brown said Rush
went well for him.

“The whole thing was just monumental,”
Brown said.

Literacy program beneﬁts Rockbridge County

 

photo courtesy of Pi Beta Phi

Senior Allison Harvey reads at a local elementary
school as part of Pi Beta Phi’s “Links to Literacy”
philanthropy.

W&L students to volunteer
time in local schools

By Matthew McDermott

NEWS EDITOR

Forty—eight teachers will entrust their classrooms
to W&L students as part of the Nabors Service
League’s “Dream a Dream, Read a Book: Literacy Carn-
paign 2001.”

Starting today, on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, stu-
dent volunteers will adopt Rockbridge County classes
from kindergarten to third grade, visiting once a week
for 30 to 45 minutes. They will present age—appropri-
ate literacy lessons, whichcan range from acting out
scenes to running a writing workshop. The Nabors
Service League will offer optional lesson planning ses-

sions for these presenters.

“Studies show that children who are independent
readers by third grade are more successful in middle
school and beyond,” said junior Stacy McLoughlin, the
project’s lead organizer.

The Adopt A Classroom Program, though the largest
service project, is only one of many planned for the next
seven weeks.

A Book Drive will collect books from approximately
50 boxes scattered around the W&L campus, local
schools, and area businesses.

“Our goal is to give at least one book to every kinder-
gartner in the county,” said McLoughlin.

Weekly newspaper articles, written by W&L stu-
dents, will appear to highlight the importance of lit-
eracy.

Middle school students can participate in a poster
contest that promotes reading and writing. Entries will
be displayed around the W&L campus.

There are plans for a high school essay con-

test, judged by W&L students with prizes ‘for
winners. .

Libraries will host enrichment days for the next four
weeks. Volunteers will choose themes and present them
to some children invited through newspapers, schools
and churches.

All of the programs will end on March 2, Read
Across America Day.» Marion Heard of the Boston
United Way will be the closing speaker.

“My major partner in this one has really been [Di-
rector of Success by Six] Kelly Fujiwara,” McLoughlin
said.

The superintendent of the school district, public
library and many businesses are also assisting the
campaign. MSA, PRIDE and the Pi Beta Phi sorority,
which runs the “Links to Literacy” philanthropy and
hosted the kick-off breakfast, are helping too.

“It’s been a good deal of work, but I’ve enjoyed
it,” McLoughlin said. “It’s been wonderful getting
to know different people in the community.”

ﬁlly: ‘ﬂing-tum iﬁlji

January 15,2001

 

 

 

Men’s swimming, 6-1:
team adds Wm against
Buffalo State nd Catholic

  

 

V N @1112 airing-rum rain

JANUARY 15, 2001. ‘

Dennis Kimbro commemorates

legacy of Dr. King

Management consultant Dr. Dennis Kimbro will be
the keynote speaker for a celebration of the legacy of
The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., on Monday,
Jan. 15, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Kimbro addresses nearly 100,000 people in corporate
and public talks each year on leadership, entrepreneur-
ship, sales, and personal development. He has spoken at
Xerox, the Chrysler Motor Company, the Central Ir1telli-
gence Agency, Price Waterhouse, Stanford Business
School, Hewlett-Packard, Dunn & Bradstreet, and Apple
Computer.

1 Kimbro is the author of several best-selling novels
about finding the winning formula for personal and
professional success: Think & Grow Rich, Think &
Grow Rich Daily Motivations, and What Makes the
Great Great: Strategies for ExtraordinaryAchievement.

Kimbro’s visit is sponsored by the Minority Student
Association, Nabors Service League, PRIDE," The Col-
lege, The Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics, Student Affairs, the Athletic Department, and
Career Services.

'lVvo-day psychology program at W&L
explores food cravings and loneliness

The department will host two speakers to present on
Jan. 16. The first is an expert on food preferences in hu-
mans_ and will demonstrate the effects of chocolate on
the sensory system. The other guest lecturer will talk
about the connection between loneliness and its effects
on the immune system.

“The Psychology in Your Face” begins with a demon-
stration/lecture, “Chocolate Cravings: A Talk and Tast-
ing” at 4:30 p.m. by Dr. Marcia Pelchat from the Monell

Chemical Senses Institute in Northen Auditorium. The
Cocoa Mill will supply the chocolate.

Later that day, Dr. JohnCacioppo, distinguished pro-
fessor at the University of Chicago, will lecture on
“Anatomy of Lonliness” in N orthen Auditorium. One area
of his research explores the effects of loneliness on col-
lege—aged students and behavioral styles associated with
hostility, pessimism, insecure attachments, interactions
with others and inferior sleep.

Sergei Khrushchev joins W&L as a

Scholar-in-Residence

Sergei Khrushchev, son of the late Soviet leader Nikita
Khrushchev, will visit Washington and’ Lee University
Jan. 15-17 as its first Russian Scholar-in-Residence, spon-
sored by W&L's Ernest Williams H School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

Khrushchev will give a public lecture in Lee Chapel
on Tuesday, Jan. 16 at 7:30 p.m. The title is "Lessons
from the Cold War," followed by a question—and-an-
swer session with the audience. Immediately following
the lecture is a book-signing ceremony for his new work:
Nikita Khrushchev and the Creation of a Superpower
(March 2000, Pennsylvania State University Press).

Sergei Khrushchev has a master's in electromechanical
engineering (1958, Moscow) and a Ph.D. in technical sci-
ence (1988, Moscow). From 1958-1968, he worked on the
USSR missile and space programs, submarine—launched
cruise missiles, military and research spacecraft, includ-
ing the world's largest space booster.

His career also spans engineering, computer science
and strategic studies.

Since 1996, Sergei Khrushchev has been a senior fel-
low at the Watson Institute's Global Security Program and
a principal investigator in the Post-Soviet Studies Project.
He researches international security and comparative eco-
nomic and political transitions. .

His books, printed in 12 languages, include Khrushchev
Remembers (3 volumes, memoirs edited during 1967-70),
Khrushchev on Khrushchev, Crisis and Missiles, Politi-
cal Economy of Russian Fragmentation, Three Circles of
Russian Market Reforms.

story courtesy W&L website

Fraternities

Sigma Nu 3 289
Phi Gamma Delta 3280
Sigma Phi Epsilon 3_ 169
Phi Delta Theta 3148
Sigma Chi 3.120
Phi Kappa Psi 3,114
Kappa Alpha 3.101
Kappa Sigma 3.098
Pi Kappa Alpha 3_078
Phi Kappa Sigma 3_()36
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 3025
Beta Theta Pi 2972
Pi Kappa Phi 2958
Lambda Chi Alpha 2910
Chi Psi 2353

Fall Term GPA’s

Fraternities, sororities, and independents

KappaKappa Gamma 3 .348
P1 Beta Phi . 3303
Kappa Alpha Theta 3290
Chi Omega 3_27Q
Kappa Delta 3260

All Sorority Women 3 .294
N on-Sorority Women 3.148
All Women 3.219
All Fraternity Men 3.081
Non-Fraternity Men 3.031
All Men 3.059
All Students _ 3. 13 1

compiled by Matthew McDermott

 

EVERY MONDAY 8:30 i=.M. To NIIDNIGHT
'1/15 sing along
with Alex ‘Nrilkins
1/22 DJ

1/29 a night of jazz

  J AVA AT

co1=FEEpeopleMusIcmore

THE  GHQ

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor ‘

BACK TO THE GRIND. After a long Christmas Break, students brave the Colonnade again
during the first week of winter term class.

PHI OR DIE »

Meetings every Tuesday at
7 p.m., second ﬂoor of the v

University.Center,
Room 208.

LEXING TON

COFFEE

if’-ﬁj

.‘r./fini.s-2a}:r'j';li).v.J¢zrq9-.-
l..INCER AT A FIRESIDE TABLE
CC)l"T"l.".Ii 0 l:.'Nl’RES'S{J I l'.'+51l’l-'lJ('.{,'.lN() ' I-‘A.‘5'|'R IE5 ' HAIH-'s[.S
9 ‘WEST ‘VASHINGTON STREET ' LEXINGTON ' 454-6586

 

 

.lANUAl2Y 15, 2001

("lire Ring-mm iﬁht

PINION

PAGE 3

Beware of
the Greeks?

At Washington and Lee, we enjoy the beneﬁts of many
a unique institution. Whether it be the honor system, the
speaking tradition, our small size, or respect for tradition,

' these facets of the W&L gestalt all contribute to a college

experience unlike any other. There is, however, one as-
pect of our undergraduate years that is especially inﬂuen-
tial in creating this atmosphere, the Greek system.

Like nearly all other spheres of human endeavor, politi-
cal correctness has poisoned what was once a ﬂourishing
and successful system nationwide. Now, throughout the
country, fraternities are being impugned as rnisogynist,
chauvinist organizations that do little but party, drink, and
cause general chaos in an Animal House manner. Article
after article has appeared in papers from the Washington

. Post to the Boston Globe to the Los Angeles Times decry-

ing orrmipresent hazing, binge drinking, and promiscuity
at fraternities. Every time one chapter, in an isolated inci-
dent, tragically costs one member his life, the public is
bombarded with somber editorials, investigative reports
on 20/20, and shocked news anchors all calling for fur-
ther restrictions on the activities of these destructive, dan-
gerous, and delinquent organizations.

A more recent approach has been to write articles de-
tailing the movement to eliminate alcohol at many frater-
nities and the enthusiasm with which schools are forcing
houses to go dry. Brothers are described as raucous
drunks out—of—sync with the more sober lifestyle of con-
temporary college students. Simultaneously, fraternities
are demonized for corrupting impressionable pledges and
fostering a “culture of alcohol” on

y Christine Metzger

dodgeball as too violent and ‘slingshots as too danger-
ous, but believe that homosexual necrophilial pomegra-
phy is art.

campuses across the nation. Such
inconsistency is overlooked by
the critics of the fraternity system.

Right Side of the Aisle
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

We at W&L, rather than reject
generations—old traditions, have
embraced and allowed them to

To those who would abandon a

time-tested system of scholarship and service, fraterni-
ties are holdouts from a male-dorninated, violent, intoler-
ant society in the sensitive, accepting, hyphenated
present. ,

Interestingly, it is not the Elks, VFW, or American Le-
gion that is bad—mouthing fraternities into the history
books, but, instead, the same people who would prohibit

@112 ititng-tum lﬂlri

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
Matt McDermott
Max Smith

Mike Agnello
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Bryan Early
Heather McDonald
Michael Crittenden
Mary Guy

Ashley Daly

News Editors

Assistant News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Ltfe Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor

Stajj‘ Photographer

Circulation Director
Business Manager

Charlie Tonelli
Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

ﬂourish, enriching both the qual-
ity of life and the education. Here, the fraternity system
is strong and will continue to be so because it offers to
students exactly what it is named after, fraternity, broth-
erhood, philia. What is overlooked by the naysayers is
so evident in our fraternities and sororities. The not-
able—to-be-duplicated, intense camaraderie that results
from shared experiences, during pledgeship and party-
time, common goals, and deep loyalty. While hard to
define, the administration, alumni, and trustees have
recognized, or personally beneﬂtted from, its existence

The independent Greek

Largely superceding all other pursuits this frantic
pledge week have been thoughts on Greek life. Tears fall,
doors slam, hopes rise and fall to this worldly construct.
Yet there is hope.

The brotherhood and sisterhood, the tradition, and
the prospect for future success that come with Greek life
cause many bright young men and women to lose their
perspective on what it means to be an individual and to
be liberally educated. ‘

I do not mean to suggest, as you
may assume, that Greek life neces-
sarily renders one’s understanding
of these concepts barren. What I call
attention to is the need to place the value of an indepen-
dent and freed mind into the context of what Greek life
means to us as members of the Washington and Lee
community.

But what does this mean?

Like any sort of relationship, the chance for success is
enhanced exponentially when its co-signers have the abil-
ity to stand alone. Trouble often comes when members of
a relationship depend on the support of the other
member(s). As in any relationship, hunger for allegiance
in the Greek community will only lead to further despair
and confusion. After all, a group comprised of individu-
als all seeking for fulﬁllment in each other can never
achieve satisfaction.

Perhaps a relevant question to ask oneself when en-
tering the process of rush and pledgeship is if he, to any
degree, is complete as an individual and whether he sees
Greek life as a reciprocation of personal wanting. Does he
expect the Greek system to complete himself or does he
seek to affect the system?

A fundamental goal of any liberal arts education is to
free a student from those things which enslave him-—- an
inability to think critically and logically and a dependence
on the knowledge of others, among other things.

This concept applies to non—acadeinic areas, as well.
A person should look for spiritual and emotial stability
before entering into a contract. Anything different will

TALKback:

“Because my grandmother only

ThePatn'ot
Joel Pepeia ’04

and are certain to not let it die at W&L.

On a more practical level, living the Greek life, by its
very nature, creates a nationwide, if not international, net-
work of friends and contacts. Also, instead of fostering a
“culture of alcohol,” fraternities provide a safe, supervised
atmosphere where young adults can learn to become re-
sponsible and mature drinkers. Finally, fraternities and
sororities are committed to philanthropy. Brothers and
sisters run blood drives, food collections, Habitat for Hu-
manity projects, charity runs, walks, and innumerable other
compassionate programs.

Unfortunately, there are few, if any, others schools in
the nation the have encouraged fraternities and sororities
as W&L has. As demonstrated by our experiences, when
allowed to thrive, Greek life brings out the best in students
and is an integral part of their education for adulthood.
These really are Greeks bearing gifts.

only till the ground for destruction of the individual as
well as the whole.

As one aspect that should be considered when making
the difficult decision to “go Greek,” the ability to stand
alone has great importance.

Yet this decision also includes many other intricacies:
one’s ability to experience positive personal growth within
the Greek system, the relevance and importance of
cornraderie, the academic consequences,
and countless other issues.

As college is a time to stretch limits in
a number of ways, the choice to join the
Greek system should regard the possibil-
ity for personal growth and for one’s ability to affect outer
culture. The individual should decide whether the Greek
system allows for both.

Through prayer, thought, worthy counsel, and self-ex-
arnination, every individual is capable of making the cor-
rect decision for himself. Once made, this decision should
not be questioned. Whatever you decide, have faith that
it was the right choice.

Good luck to everyone in comtemplation.

Godspeed. A

uote of the Week:

(6

At rush, everyone becomes
very religious. They all
worship the porcelain god.

— Colin Harding ‘04 ‘
7 7

_Why did you comeback from break?

    

, “Good times on the fourth “My Winamp playlist.” “The opportunity to have my
sends my care packages here.” ﬂoor and pledgeship.” -Heather Bane ‘04 picture in the paper.”
-Vicky Romeo ‘04 -Bill Gilsenan ’04 -Jonathan Browder ’04

 

 

Eh: Zﬂiug-tum iﬂhi

PAGE 4

SORORITIE

JANUARY 15, 2001

C ongratuaitions 

to Tfie   Newest
ﬂloﬁfitions to
Kappa De Lia
Sorority,     
Tﬁe fpsifon Cfass

Tiffany Barfow Bnmwey Inman fden Tarés

ﬂlmanda Basﬁarn ‘ Katie Rifey

Lfise Judd

Katie Berg Laura Rosario

Cate Lacy

C [aire C arotfiers Laura Samueﬁ

Carofyn Duffy

Cristina Garcia

Liz Law

, Lisa Sauer
j-"ontaine .’Marcoux

Corinne .’Mat/"Lieu jmnie Tompkins

Carrie Qrafiam C firistina Tworney

Sfieffey Meyer

_13[a£e green Jzlnsfey Warren

Lisa .’Mo6[ey

Kara ﬂarbert Cfiristina Weﬁster

Ginny Jvloncure

ﬂﬁﬁy Harding Joy Wﬁiteﬁead

sari,

Tena Jvloure

Heather Niesman

 

Bfair Oaéfey

     

 Sarah Michaels
  Brooks Morgan
Elizabeth Osborne

Emily Averitt
Mary-Wommack Barton-
Liz Burton
Jessica Cedarholm
Beth Creasey
Natalie Deibel 
Martha Edwards 
Daley Formby
Nancy Francis
Meghan Hayde
Emily Helander
Hilary Henry
Susannah Hewlett
Tate Hoeffel
Sara Jurkowsky
Sarah Kavanaugh
Kari Lassen
Jess Lake
Jen Lalley
Kate Leggett i
Jennifer May
Molly McGinty

Millie Rand
Jess Rotzell
Maury Stegall
Kate Talbert
Ashley Thompson ;
Lee Wheeler
Sarah Yakots

   

 

   
 
 

I I I ,
0 \
~. .
I 2
I
‘, 3
ha
I

Gene Adams Elizabeth Loyd

  aess Bennet A maggie mason
Cameron Billups aenny mcélunkin
Bennie Dauxson Kelly mcFarlane
Kathryn Drinkard Caroline Parker
Katherine Emerson Elizabeth Postma
Austin Gee Alicia Iaavenel
Hattie Gruber i Brooke Boseberry
Stephanie Haldy miriam Rodgers
Lucy Hinkle Cynthia Rush
Helen Hughes Lizzie Scruggs

  Congratulations to the
2001 Pledge Class oi?
jlsappa Kappa Gamma

assasaeoeeéérasssswseeoesassaewsess

11111

Blair Sanzone
aoanna Schubert
Virginia Snider
Sarah Stanton
Stacy Suseet
Emily Baylor
Katherine Ehomas
Amelia (Haring
Arnita lﬂoiiiiord
Anne Séoung

 

 

JANUARY 15, 2001

(E112 ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

SORORITIES

PAGE 5

%' ﬁe/a 

       
  

  
  
  

   

Jfanna gfmeaf 1 Car-oﬁne W2-%'z2ney
zUz'z2z'/9-eJ gbes   yennzfer %T/er
yennzfer ﬂee-[e   ﬁarrell 9Ghron
Jfea/fer Lam 5%  5«7;,3,a,r 77¢:-Jae
gniesa ﬁoscf via/or1'a Women
yacyue/yn Gfarf Ga/fez-z'z2e csa//er/}'e/J
Jfea/fer Gofeman 6/fie (Simpson
9G'co/e $auof Weyan csmi/I
Griz: ﬁouyfer/y 1 Wary ﬂu/fa (S/one
Bauren Cyferl ‘ maria csjsia
gmanJa .7G'zn5fe   gessica yayfor
9'35/ey jfﬁizzp yamie 70:0
xegeaca .70-amer  925-egg//e Ia,-Jmm
Bauren Bafue .729’/[cry zﬂzfa/er
giana ﬂﬂaioyan

I 0. Zﬂzfson

ea; ﬂmegzao

§om?»oa7wZa7w« 475»

V014‘!/%4'ﬂv adﬂﬂﬂ’
ﬂmawolar aafafmw
am“ Bagwaﬁ
70%? Bwcifleﬁ?"
7”7e?a»rv Balggow

7”7mmlao 34/own

iwaalo gal»/ﬂow»
i<a7A«m/iwa 
  Eyyurv §Zoma'(:3?
Km,» ﬂoor»
angel aaovalaév
7”7a/paw Qvwt/vai
9M7W“W Wm

1”? Wm
%lﬂ34/in gu/voalww
6%/»m;rw M
{Milo ﬁowoﬁ
ﬂan yoémm
ﬂu» immmo
ﬂoayknlwo 7”7a7?»Tmv
yoarvwa 
B4/tlaova 
gwwoll 7Z«om7a4ow
Slaw» 730/emfon.

7”7az%'7_ 

 

 

PAGE 6

JANUARY 15, 2001

I

Broadening their horizons

By Alexis Yee—Garcia

F EA TURES EDITOR

Over 20 Washington and Lee stu-
dents took learning on the road dur-
ing fall term, traveling to countries as
far as Japan and New Zealand
through various university programs.

Juniors Katie Mahan and Elizabeth

Alford went to Paris with Academic 9

Programs Abroad to study at a uni-
versity there and learn more about
French culture.

“They take big lunch breaks in the

‘middle of the day,” said Alford of

some of the different aspects of
French life. “They enjoy life, they’re
‘bon vivant’ — good livers.”

Both students agreed that living
with their host families was one of the
highlights of the trip.

“I lived with a wonderful family,” said
Mahan. “I helped make dirmer every
night, learned how to make Crepes.”

Mahan said that living in Paris for

an extended period of time also made
the city seem less distant and “more
real.” Though living abroad de-mysti-
ﬁed an exotic location students also
grew to appreciate aspects of their life
they might otherwise take for granted.

“I missed the community life at
W&L,” said Alford, “We went to the
Sorbonne [for classes] and there’s no
real community for those students
there.”

Senior Leah Sawyer sought out her
cultural experience, ﬁnding an Israel
study abroad program on the intemet.
Sawyer received a scholarship
through W&L to study Hebrew and
contemporary Israel. She was even
able to live in a kibbutz for the first
half of her trip.

“It was interesting to be in a coun—
try that’s mostly Jewish and not be
Jewish,” said Sawyer. “It made me re-
alize what it must be like to be Jewish
in a mostly Christian country.”

With the recent uprisings in the

area, Sawyer’s excursion held differ-
ent concerns than Alford and
Mahan’s.

“In public places with a lot of
people there were checkpoints with
metal detectors and people checking
bags,” said Sawyer. “The day I went
to Jerusalem, a soldier was shot on
the bus. They have an entire garrison
of Israeli soldiers just for that part of
the city [the Arab quarter].”

Despite the dangers, Sawyer was
not‘ discouraged and tried not to be
affected by the violence around her.

“It’sjust like the U.S. You don’t go
to the bad areas of town, everyone
knows the rules to stay safe,” she said.

Though Sawyer experienced les-
sons in topics from street smarts to
biblical history, she also found some
locations to be more like a vacation
than anything else.

“They have really good clubs,” she
said, “We went to the ones near the
kibbutz about three times a week.”

photo courtesy Lea.h Sawyer

Senior Leah Sawyer and friends she met while living in a kibbutz in Israel pose for the camera.
They spent two weeks touring Greece and seeing historical landmarks, such as the Parthenon.

This Week in
theaters...

By Mike George

STAFF WRITER

Cast Away ***1/2

With Cast Away, director Robert Zemeckis brings to

life the story of a man who is forced to ﬁnd a way to
survive under the most trying circumstances. Veteran ac-
tor Tom Hanks plays Chuck Nolan, a FedEx inspector
who is stranded on a small island in the Paciﬁc Ocean and
forced to survive using only the skills of his experience
and the hope that he may someday get back to the woman
he loves. Along with the practical concerns of survival,
Hanks must ﬁnd a way off the island and back to civiliza-
tion. The barest of necessities, such as water, food, and
warmth, become central issues as Hanks is forced to try
to survive without the use of technology.

Zemeckis presents a film that is energetic, exiting and
touching on a very base emotional level. Zemeckis’s charac-
ters are real people, with lives and issues similar to many of
our own. Zemeckis argues that the power of the human spirit
is more enduring than the technology we rely upon and he
comments on the hanied nature of society. In a scene repre-
sentative of this idea, Hanks and Helen Hunt, who portrays

     

    

hoto courtesy Dreamworks studio
Tom Hanks struggles to survive as a stranded

FedEx inspector in his new film, Cast Away.

Nolan’s love interest Kelly, sit down with their pocket calen-
dars to plan out when they are going to see each other over
the holidays, traditionally a time when people put aside their
outside lives to enjoy family and friends.

Nolan and Kelly are both controlled by the world around
them, whose lives are based on their responsibilities. How-
ever, when Nolan is lost at sea, life slows down to nothing.

One of the ﬁlm’s most memorable elements is the relation-
ship between Nolan and Wilson, a volleyball that serves as
Nolan’s only companion on the island. Nolan begins a friend-
ship with the volleyball and his conversations with an inani-
mate object depict the need man has for companionship.

America's

1n Student

 

Travel ._____

I 1 -800-2COUNCI L
couriciltravelcom

Leader
Travel

— - \
S I"I n 
. K  \

. H EADQUARTE RS

 

VISA



  
   
    

‘casual / upscale dining
lunch / dinner

Located In The Heart Of Downtown Lexington

37 South Main Street 0 Lexington
George 8 Sue Ann Huger, l’roprietors

:31 Lexington ‘T radi tio/1 '
Serving Since 1932

 \ Hours:
'."< 11:30 AM . 10:00PM
9' Monday - Saturday
12:00 PM r 8:00PM
Sunday
Bar Open ‘Til 12:00AM

4633612

10% Discount
with Strident ID
All Day Sunday

and 8-10 pm

Monday — Thursday
Through .
January 31st

Reservation
required

for parties

of 6 or more

Though Zemeckis’ ﬁlm is entertaining, it does have some
weaknesses. Is it just me, or does this ﬁlm look like a two and
a half hour advertisement for FedEx? The people at UPS must
be ﬁirious. The opening credits also irritated me, as the cam-
era follows the journey of a FedEx package with shakiness
reminiscent of the Blair Witch Project.

Overall, I would have to say that Cast Away is an enjoy-
able ﬁlm, ﬁlled with a poignant sadness. I mean, what could
be more entertaining than a man talking to an inanimate
object for two years? However, I don’t think I’ll be running
to the video store torent it anytime soon. Hanks is excellent
though, proving once again that he is America’s everyman.

Proof of Life ***

In Proof of Life, Russel Crowe, Meg Ryan and director
Taylor Hackford present a story about the sacrifices we
make for those in need and the lengths we will go to help
those we love. When Peter Bowman, an engineer working
in South America is taken hostage by a group of militant
drug runners, Crowe is called in to negotiate his release.
When Bowman’s company collapses, Crowe comes to the
aid of Bowman’s wife (Ryan) and a romance ensues.

Much of this ﬁlm relies on its strong performances and
tense confrontations. Veteran character actor David Morse
is excellent as Peter Bowman, a man unwilling to give up
and driven by love for his wife. Ryan portrays Alice Bow-

l"l os’t W&L

Office of Health
Promotion and

man with sensitivity and subtle weakness, revealing a ?
character that can be strong yet fragile. Crowe, whose
recent work has brought him into Oscar contention,
proves the power of performance on an audience.

Although the film was entertaining, it is also long, so
do not go into the theater without the industrial size
bucket o’ cola. Proof of Life begins and ends with a
hostage extraction: 20 minutes of pure kick—butt adrena-
line and the best parts of every intelligent action ﬁlm
from the last 20 years. What lies in between is pure ro— I
mantic tripe, the likes of which I have not seen since
Titanic. It is, at best, two hours of Crowe and Ryan look-
ing into each other’s eyes, waiting to ride off into the
sunset and make every male member of the audience ask ‘I
for the in—theater vomit bag.

Proof of Life in its entirety is something nice to watch
on a date, but only if you like romance. Overall, this ﬁlm is
watchable, but only once as repeated viewings may in-
hibit masculinity. v

Ranking System
**** -— Amazing, watch until your eyes bleed
*** — Good, one time viewing
** — Fair, see if you don’t plan to be watching the
movie while in the theater
* — Poor, may induce paralysis

Students

co ho

Substance Abuse

Prevention

1999 2000

 

 

is JANUARY 15, 2001

 

S

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlii

PORTS  

 

PAGE 7

‘Generals run record to 6-1

, Women split meets against
Buffalo State, Catholic

By Geoff White

I " SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s swimming team im-
proved their record to 6-1 while the women became 3-5 on
‘the season in dual meets against Catholic University and

V‘ Buffalo State over the weekend.
I The women’s team defeated Buffalo State, but lost a
close meet against Catholic. The men won both contests.

Both teams went to Clearwater, Fl., during the Christ-
mas break to escape the cold weather and train for the
second half of the season. They weren’t able to escape
from the cold, but the squads did manage to get in some
practicing over the break.

Both squads handily defeated Buffalo State on Friday,

‘V with the men winning 1 19-65 and the women pulling out a

    

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
WING SPAN. Freshman Drew Catanese swims
against Buffalo State on Saturday. The
Generals won themeet by a 119-65 score.

1 10-49 victory.
Freshman Colin Mitchell led the men by winning the
100-meter backstroke and the 200-meter freestyle.
Sophomore Kelli Austin led the women with first-place

ﬁnishes in the 50, 100, and 200-meter freestyle events.
Classmate Michelle Moore earned a season-best time of
1:07.43 in the 100-meter backstroke.
On Saturday, the men handed Catholic their first loss
of the season, easily defeating the Cardinals 139-66.
Senior Mike Miraglia led the squad by winning the

~ 200-meter individual medley and the 200-meter butterﬂy.

Sophomore Patrick Franlcfort won the 1000—meter freestyle
with a meet-record time of 10: 18.07, and freshman Eric Ritter
placed first in the 100-meter freestyle with a time of 49.43.

The men also set meet records with wins in the 400-
meter medley relay and the 400-meter freestyle relay
(3:38.22 and 3:19.85).

The women’s squad lost a close match to Catholic,
dropping a 1 15-90 decision. Sophomore Blair Huffman took
ﬁrst place in the 200-meter individual medley, the 200-meter
butterﬂy and the 200-meter breaststroke. Austin ﬁnished
first in the 100 and 200-meter freestyle events.

The Generals will host Johns Hopkins next Saturday at
11 a.m.

.W&L grapplers open conference play

Generals play win, lose or
-, draw in quadrangular meet,
fall to Muhlenberg at home
By Jeremy Franklin

g ' SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wrestling squad delved into
team competition in the first week of the new year, hosting
the W&L Quadrangular on Jan. 6 and then falling to Cen-

'1 tennial Conference foe Muhlenberg on Jan. 10.

The Generals (1-2-l, 1-1 Centennial) posted a win, a
loss, and a tie in the quadrangular meet on Jan. 6. W&L
opened conference play in the meet with a 24-17 victory
over Gettysburg, proceeding to tie non-conference

‘ Pensacola Christian 24-24 and lose to Davidson 26-16.

Junior Ezra Morse remained undefeated on the season,
scoring three pins in the 197-pound weight class to improve
to 9-0. Senior Josh Chamberlain (149-pound) and junior Ivan

I Zdanov (174) also went 3-0 on the afternoon for the Gener-
als, and senior John Sensing (heavyweight) finished 2-1.

W&L then dropped a 26-13 Centennial match at home to
Muhlenberg (6-2, 2-0). Morse upped his rnarkto 10-0 with a 14-
5’deéisiori'over MuhIeribefg’s John Slokoviti. Jnrn6rBen'séga1‘‘ ‘

‘ (125), senior Greg Valentine (165), and freshman Joe Mueller
(184) won their matches against the conference leaders.
I The Generals wrestle again Saturday in the nine-team
(W&L Invitational.

K

    

1» photo by Emily Baes/Excutive dior

, Hoop DREAMS. Junior Sarah Schmidt shoots a

‘free throw in the Generals’ 56-39 win over
Randolph-Macon Women’s College.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

THE GREAT ESCAPE. Muhlenberg’s Shawn Zeplin attempts to maneuver out of the grasp of W&L
senior Greg Valentine in Saturday’s Centennial Conference meet. Valentine won the 165-
pound weight class match by a 5-1 score, but Muhlenberg pulled out a 26-13 win in the meet.

Women’s team par for the course

W&Ltops Randolph-Macon
Women’s College, falls to

Emory and Henry to even up

ODAC mark at 4-4
By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball team endured
an up and down week to maintain a .500 winning percentage in
the competitive Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

The Generals (5-6, 4-4 ODAC) entered action Thurs-
day on the heels of a two—game losing skid. W&L quickly
made sure that the third time was the charm, mauling
Randolph-Macon Women’s College with a barrage of sec-
ond—half points, 56-39.

Junior Jessica Mentz led the Generals with garne-highs
in points and rebounds, ﬁnishing with 20 points and 11
boards.

After a slow start, in which W&L trailed 25-24 at the
half, the Generals outscored Randolph-Macon 32-14 in
the second half, effectively ending the WildCats’ hopes.

Freshman Heather Coleman led the game-ending 20-4

{Generals put two in Win column

Sophomore

&L takes two of

forward Scott

attempts to bring W&L to within 61-

,three ODAC

contests, falls to
Hampden-Sydney

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The new year has brought mixed

* emotions to the Washington and Lee

inen’s basketball team.
Although the Generals have collected
their ﬁrst two wins of the season, both in

x Old Dominion Athletic Conference play,

these victories have been oﬁset by three
road conference losses. W&L now stands
at 2-11 onthe year, includinga2-6markin
the ODAC.

N After suffering several close losses

in the first three weeks of the season,
the Generals managed to pull out a 50-
48 win over Guilford on Jan. 3.

ii

Hetterrnaim scored a game—high 15
points as W&L erased a 35-26 sec-
ond half deﬁcit via a 19-6 run, holding
the Quakers to 32 percent shooting
from the ﬁeld to pull out the win.

The Generals’ success was short-
lived, however, as Roanoke handed
W&L a 57-48 loss three days later.
W&L trailed by nine at halftime, but
managed to trim the lead to 49-48 with
4:15 to play. The Maroons’ defense
clamped down after that point, hold-
ing the Generals scoreless for the re-
mainder of the contest. Hetteimann
led W&L with 14 points, and senior
Wil1.Ballard contributed 13.

W&L found itself the victim in an-
other close ODAC contest on
Wednesday, dropping a 63-59 road
decision to Eastern Mennonite. The
Generals trimmed a 15-point deficit
midway through the second half to

- 61-58 with 32 seconds remaining.

Ballard hit the first of two free throw

59. Although he missed the second
shot, the Generals grabbed the re-
bound, and Ballard returned to the free
throw line with nine seconds remain-
ing. However, Ballard rriissed both
free throw attempts, and the Royals
sealed the win with two free throws at
the other end.

Junior Bob Bustamante and fresh-
man David Bode tallied 12 points
apiece to lead W&L.

On Saturday, the Generals
bounced back to knock off Lynchburg
67-54 on the road. W&L shot 23-of-
46 from the ﬁeld and 16-of- 16 from the
free throw line, paced by Hetterrnarm’s
14 points and eight rebounds. Sopho-

_ more Will Cotter contributed 13 points

in the win.

W&L fell to 2-11 on Sunday with
an 84-47 loss to Hampden-Sydney
(13-1, 7-1 ODAC). Hettermarm again
led the Generals with 12 points, and
freshman John Saxon added eight.

run, finishing with eight points and six rebounds.

“Heather has always been very consistent and makes
very few mistakes on the court,” W&L head coach Janet
Hollack said of her freshman guard.

In a near role reversal of Thursday’s game, W&L en-
dured a punishing second-half run by Emory and Henry
en route to a 63-38 loss on Saturday night.

The Generals hung with the Wasps until halftime, when
they trailed 19-18. This time, however, Emory and Henry
came out of the locker room on ﬁre, using a 13-2 run to
place the game out of reach.

Junior Megan Babst led the Generals with 12 points
and 12 rebounds. Junior forward Sarah Schmidt chipped
in 11 points and five rebounds for W&L.

Rebounding helped the Wasps take control of the game,
as W&L was outrebounded 41-30, with Emory and Henry
grabbing 15 offensive rebounds.

“We just need to take care of ourselves and our play,”
Hollack said. “If we are consistent and execute, we’ll be
fine for the rest of the year.”

The Generals continue ODAC play with a 7 p.m. road
contest against Lynchburg on Wednesday.

W&L SPORTS FANATIC?

'I11rn to the sports pages of the Phi
every week to keep up with
Generals’ varsity athletics.

MCAT Class starts
January 17!

1-800-KAP-TEST

kaptest.com

' MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association of American Medics Colleges.

 

 

 

PAGE 8

Rush: because your folks
don’t need to know
everything in your life

LASTW

flip: ﬂing-tum iﬂlit

ORD  

JANUARY 15,2001 "

Il‘llIl. "I IWIIIS and IIGIIIGIIIIIIS

W&L Mailing List Archive:

II

and the lack of respect it shows.

factual representation of the incident.

'$llII|BI" (3|'00|(S I‘lIII allllllili

IIISIIUIIMEII: The following sum: is

mav rilect noorlv on vour IIert:eII-
tinn on the maturiui oi vnur neers.

Before leaving for Christmas Break, the cam-
pus was struck by an indecent and inappropriate act
of vandalism by an anonymous party. The group
targeted a student—run food drive for its act of van-
dalism. Perhaps you recall a campus wide e—mail
inquiring about the incident perpetrated on Dec. 6:

“Last night around dinner time an un-
fortunate incident occurred. Some FLC
members left a sign drying in the BDG
quad for our charity Food Drive today, and
one or more students decided to take it
upon themselves and deface this sign. We
are all very disappointed in this behavior

After that last campus e—mail notice, no further
information was released to the general public. The
Last Word has received an account of the events
that led to the otherwise random act of terrorism,
though this account does not represent the direct

The alleged party involved saw the sign in the
middle of the BDG Quad replete with paint and
brushes. According to the source, the sign had
“Canned Food Drive” written upon it in “messy
lettering” and it was evidently “just asking to be
messed with.”

The intrepid terrorists decided to heed the call
of the painted sign, then, and vandalize it. So they
changed the “F” to a “P” and manipulated the let-
ter “d” to another “p.” Thus, the “Canned Food
Drive” became the “Canned Poop Drive.”

One would think that the students of our cam-
pus would be above such infantile pranks. One
would think that the high academic standards and
strength of character demanded of W&L students
would impel the collegians of our campus to be
above childish pranks like this.

Not only did these wannabe Bart Simpsons dis-
play theirimmaturity, but they also showed a
shocking amount of ignorance, as can be seen by
their vulgarity, and I think that this incident was a
low—point in personal responsibility and credibility
on campus. In the coming months with pledgeship,
one can hope that students can approach what
should be a very fun experience with thoughtful-
ness and some degree of prudence, rather than
brash disregard for our fellow students.

-- Last Word Editor
Bryan Early

rtcsiimtw CMIOY ieusi ween. <ikttI<S LAUGH

MCNMCNGIY FROM THC

Qwelé/.9, weeféo, wdundancg
and caaféie/5.’

The fraternities are not the only ones who were
busied with Rush—related activities. The women,
too, busied themselves with the harsh task of rank-
ing themselves according to the stringent rules:
Smoozing ability, cuteness, fashion sense, and abil-
ity to sing loudly in the Quad at 7:30 in the morning
on Saturdays. The difference between the sorori-
ties and fraternities seems to lie in the fact that the
males seem to enjoy the process while it is more of
an ordeal for the women — a comparable analogy
would be the process of bearing children.

Regardless of the actual rush process,
pledgeship is what will make or break the Greek
hopefuls. As events of the past hundred plus years
have shown us, men don’t exactly have a free-ride
when it comes to pledgeship. A fraternity brother
put it best when he stated at a fraternity function,
to some fraternity pledges, about fraternity policy
in unequivocally nonredundant terms: “There are
no free rides.” Happenstancially, a sorority sister put
it best when she stated in non—redundantly un-
equivocal terms: ‘There are free cookies!”

   

5W°W5 /“‘“’”“‘“/"ll

   
 

Aieehei round at the
all during Rush Week

Alcohol made its. unwelcome presence known over the
course of Rush weel<;. The student populace was left shocked

and dismayed over the massive numbers of piss—drunk fresh- -

men scattered across the campus. Since it’s against Rush Week
policy for fraternities to serve alcohol and they would never
dream of violating tl”.C stringent standards enforced by the In-
ter Fratty Council. Campus ofﬁcials are bafﬂed over the source
of the alcohol. A high level Inter Fratty Councilboy was re-
ported to have said when asked to comment on the puzzling
presence of alcohol on campus, “Whew, rushing kicks ass man,
whew —— yeah Shelbyi Ycaii, i.ll'4ll,5 wiiui F111 iziiisiiig dI)UUl —
this party is bitchin‘ ! Now, where the hell’s the Beam?”

  

The

Cal X

All years (1960-2000) are available
for purchase —-— $10
Contact Neal at Willettsr@ wlu.edu

Be in next years yearbook!
Please turn in underclass and senior candid
photos in front of Carol Calkins office in the
University Center

 YEAR IN REVIEW

The year 2000 was a strange mixture
of letdowns, disappointment, boredom,
and quiet desperation. The year was
supposed to be the beginning of a new
chapter of humanity — society was ei-
ther sup-
posed to col-
lapse due to
the Not-So-
Apocalyptic
“Y2K Bug”
or the world
was sup-
posed end
due to the
A r m a g e d -
don. The year saw economicdecline,
new lows in media depravity, the Res-
toration of the Bush Dynasty, horri-
bly annoying music, and yet it was
still a good time. Who thought that
the era ushered in by the new millen-
nium,wou1d be the 80s? I mean, Con-
gress is even funding a new “Soph-
ist—a—mikated Missile Shooting Down

Tw1'ste_ Sister,

Do-Hicky;” the only thing missing is '

the stagﬂation and the massive hair-
dos.

Culture

The 80s were directly responsible
for two monikers of modern society that
highlighted 2000: The nouveau riche
yuppies and the nonconformist-con-
formists. The punk movement was all
about telling the man to shove-off by
dying your hair neon colors and wear-
ing the ugliest clothes possible — oh
yeah, and there were tons of drugs, too.
The yuppies and preppies are off-
shoots of a society based upon excess
and self- gratiﬁcation; all conforming to
the same standard of clothing, lifestyles,
and appearance.

In 2000, Abercrombie, North Face,
SUVs, and tech vests dominated pop
preppy culture and nothing other
than the full backing of a well-fi-

 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   

 

nanced, highly attractive, and popu-
lar group like the preppies could
ever hope to make people wear
something as pointless and ugly as
tech vests. Unsurprisingly, drugs
still remain popular. And instead of
punk clothing, we have Gangsta
Wrappers like Tommy Hilfiger,
FUBU, and WU Wear.

Business

In the 80s, the American economy
was ruled by Big Business and even
bigger aspirations. The rich got richer
and the poor got poorer-and every-
one thought that if their problems
were ignored, they’d go away. . . until
reality came knocking. In 2000, the
Internet start-up companies bred a
new sort of upper-class, not reliant
on business contacts, market re-
search, or financial stability, but
based upon he ability to navigate Win-
dows, think up creative words to put
“e” in front of, and hold massively
trumped up IPOs. Seriously, what
does proﬁtability have to do with the
intemet?

In both cases, their stocks and junk
bonds were worth almost as much as
the Kleenex they were using to sob
into.

Music

The music of the 80s was known
for more show than substance. Glam
Rock, Punk, and early versions of
Gangster Rap were known for their art-
ists’ outlandish appearances and out-
rageous behaviors.

Groups like Twisted Sister, Ma-
donna, ABBA, and Run DMC
started their careers on hype and
looks, sadly they never really pro-
gressed.

In 2000, groups like ‘NSYNC,
Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera,
and Backstreet Boys (among other

18 E. NELSON sr. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

 

 

no-talent clowns) rose to near god-5
like levels of popularity. And in both-
cases, according to everyone older‘

than 35: “They just don’t make music; ,i

like they used to.”

World Affairs ii

In the 80s, the United States ted,

the good ﬁght against the greatest evil
the world has ever known: Commu-
nism. Conversely, the United States"
led the good ﬁght in 2000 against the

second greatest evil the world has ever‘ ’

known: 6 year-old boat children from
Cuba.

Media i p.

Television as it’s known may never-—
recover from the 80s. Shows such as
“Webster,” “Diff ’rent Strokes,” and
“Facts of Life” thrusted the family
sitcoms into the forefront of Ameri-'0
can pop’
culture
and in do-
ing so,
dragged
the intel-
lectual
level of
in o d e r n
media to
e n t i r e 1 y
new lows.

In 2000, America found something i

far better to take its minds off of the
monotony and tiivialness of their own
lives —— through the tiivialness and
misery of others’ lives on reality based
television.

The existence of “Temptation Is-
land” most deﬁnitely spells the end
of society.

Government

People like Bush now have as
much as they did in the 80s.

THE PLACE FOR FOOD _A_N_1_)_ FUN !

      
    

HUNGRY .7 REMEMBER om: KITCHEN
IS or>EN....LATE .1  

1 6 oz. T-BONE STEAK W/BAKED POTATO AND

 

