     

Arm

'.\;7l8.p$‘
K 55'2-
v~ W3

»; V)0~ I 4

C - '2»

. U11 ﬂing-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UN1vERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

  
     
    
     

.i'At\n:;s G. LEYBURN LIESFKARY
w,a.::»-xmcoron z. LEE; um-/EHSKTY
= ; ;« «it veer-5. in $980

  

 

K VOLUME 103, NO. 14

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2000

  

Campus

  

Small groups meet
after university
assembly

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

  

Following University President John
Elrod’s Lee Chapel address, in which he com-
pared campus alcohol abuse to a “toxic waste
A dump,” faculty, students, and staff broke into
nine’grOups to hold moderated discussions
on Washington and Lee’s alcohol culture.

These discussions provided material for

the new alcohol task force.
" University Health Educator and Interfra—
temity Council Advisor Burr Datz led one
discussion group with Assistant Athletic Di-
rector Chuck O’Connell. Datz, a 1975 gradu-
. ate of W&L, said he recognizes the magni-
tude of the problem and wants to do some-
thing about it.

“There’s a river of alcohol abuse running
through this campus, and_I want to reduce
4 the ﬂood to a trickle,” Datz said.

In Datz and O’Connell’s group, students
mentioned the difficulties in finding an effec-
tive solution that the university community
can still accept. Junior IFC member Quincy
Springs said the biggest problem is attitude.

“We have a lot of people here who plan to

get trashed. . . we need to change the ideas
about that,” Springs said.
A: Datz agreed and said that alumni consump-
tion of alcohol at Homecoming and Alumni
Weekend proves that campus culture pro-
motes heavy drinking.

“We do a lot of things that are diseased,
and We’ve done them so long we think
they’re normal,” Datz said.

Springs also suggested that fraternities
require more of their members to undergo

  

 

discusses ‘ ‘culture of alcohol’ ’

photos by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

BRAINSTORM: In the Morris House, students surround Dean Dalhouse in a constructive discussion on the presence of
alcohol in campus life (top right). Students, faculty, and administration leave the chapel for Small groups (top left).

TIPS (Training in Interventions and Preven-
tions) to reduce the likelihood Of distributing
alcohol to already intoxicated students.

Senior Peer Segelke said that the BYOB
policy, instituted his freshman year, has not
done much to change the distribution of
alcohol at fraternity parties. Segelke ac-
knowledged the difficulties involved in en-
forcing existing university policies on al-
cohol, but said that something has to
change.

“Somewhere, the axe should come down,”
Segelke said.

Director of Security Mike Young also par-
ticipated in the discussion. Young, who
handles many situations involving alcohol,
said he is frustrated with the way alcohol-in-
duced problems are handled at W&L.

“We encourage bad behavior because we
never punish,” Young said.

Dean of Students David Howison also
led a discussion group. Howison said
his group discussed several possible
solutions, including Greek organizations
developing their own versions of Live
Drive, balancing personal responsibility
and university responsibility, and the
possibility of a single—sanction suspen-
sion penalty for a DUI charge.

Senior Jenny Anne Kneisel, president of
Chi Omega and a member of HoWison’s dis-
cussion group, hopes Greek organizations can
encourage their members to take more per-
sonal responsibility.

“The university can only do so much,” she
Said. However, Kneisel said that the discus-
sion was along Way from finding a solution.

“I think it was a very positive experience,
but we only started to scratch the surface,”
Kneisel said.

English Professor Suzanne Keen took notes
for HOWison’S discussion group. She said she
was amazed at how long the discussion con-
tinued and how much the students said.

“They covered a whole spectrum of is-
sues,” Keen said.

Keen also said that the task force will
have a lot of useful information and view-
points to consider when they read the
meeting notes.

“They have an incredibly hard job,” she said.

Freshman Joel Pepera, in a disussion
group led by Dean of Freshmen Mark
Dalhouse, said his group discussed the dis-
parity between a strong honor code and al-
cohol-related behavior.

“The Honor Code is supposed to rule ev-
ery aspect of our lives. . . if we don’t expand
our concept of honor, the school will need
more regulations,” Pepera said.

A’

Commons designed to be

 

 
 
     
     
 
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
      
       
   
 
        
     
     
     
     
     
       
     
     
       
 
        
         
       
     
     

     
       
       
       
         
         
       
   
   
       
     
     
      
       
     
     
      
      
       
 

R

Planners balance concerns of
students and environment

Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

After 12 years of consideration, University officials plan
to build a new University Commons building that protects
the surrounding environment While meeting the needs of
the Student body.

 

sketch by VMDO
VIEW FROM REID HALL: A preliminary sketch

of the University Commons.

‘ecologically friendly

VMDO, the primary architectural firm in charge of
the project, has worked closely with members of Wash-
ington and Lee’s faculty, staff, and students to create

V a building design that complements the other build-

ings on campus while not infringing on the surround-
ing Woods Creek area.

Members of the team formed to help plan for the
environmental aspect of the building include Physics
Professor Bob Akins, also chair of the University’s
Environmental Planning and Management Committee;
Director of Physical Plant Scott Beebe; Director of Fa-
cilities Planning Tom Contos; and juniors Blaine Clarke
and Helen Downes, both interns for Association of
Colleges of the South, which addresses Southern en-
vironmental issues. '

This group was joined by several VMDO architects at
the Sustainable Campus Development Clinic at Emory Uni-
versity in Atlanta this weekend.

There they learned about “sustainable buildings,”
Clarke said, “that meet the needs of the campus now with-
out diminishing the resources for the future.”

“The Woods Creek area used to be so beautiful until
we built the Science Center, library, parking garage and
sorority houses,” Associate Dean of Students Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins said.

“It used to be one huge woods that nobody though
could ever be overwhelmed, but now it is overwhelmed.
This plan is a hope to restore the area to the way it once
was by taking advantage of the natural terrain,” Dean of

 

Students David Howison said.

Construction of the University Commons will begin
this summer. The new building perches on the ridge Over-
looking Woods Creek, next to Leybum Library and adj a-
cent to Reid Hall.

“The Commons will have two equal sides, not just a
front and a back, in order to incorporate the front of Reid
Hall and to create an amphitheater effect,” Howison said.

According to Howison, in 1904 university planners
faced Reid Hall’s facade towards House Mountain, where
they believed the campus would develop. Reid Hall was
going to be part of a second Colonnade facing the oppo-
site direction. No other buildings were built in that direc-
tion, however, leaving Reid Hall with a “Wrong-facing”
facade.

Planners were faced with the necessity of providing a
route for the service vehicles delivering to the bookstore
and food service facilities.

instead proposing an underground tunnel in front of

sketch by VMDO
VIEW FROM WOODS CREEK: Architects’ plan to minimize environmental impact on campus.

With environmental considerations, they Wanted
to avoid building a road up the hill behind the library,

Graham—Lees dorm that travels underneath the
Doremus lawn and parking lot to an underground load-
ing dock near the Commons.

In addition to harmonizing with its surroundings, it is
hoped that the Commons will provide a new social and
recreational outlet for the W&L student body.

“We need a place on campus where all members
of the community can gather for activities or to
have more opportunities to interact socially,”
Howison said. “I think that the Commons is aII
essential component of the liberal education of
students at Washington and Lee.”

SEE ‘COMMONS’ ON PAGE 2

‘Tilt: ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

November 13, 2000

Generals footbal
to Swarthm ,

 
  
 

  
 

 

 

‘PAGE 2

 ' @112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlri

NOVEMBER 13, 2000

‘COMMONS’

FROM PAGE 1
The building will probably include a food service

area, a movie theater, offices for different campus or-
ganizations, a coffee shop, a mail room, and lounge
‘areas.

Plans also originally included a fitness center, but

 planners were wary of an oversized building, and de-
‘ cided instead to renovate athletic facilities in Warner
’ Gymnasium.

Evans Dining Hall will become a conference center
available for large meetings, sorority socials, and spe-
cial occasion dinners.

“All the credit goes to the architects,” Atkins
said. “They have creatively incorporated many ar-

'» eas of campus into this project to make it fit more
- appropriately.”

“Other schools all have a vibrant student activi-

ties facility. We are really far behind other univer-
’sities in this aspect,” Howison said. “We hope to
9 create that kind of vibrant, active community with
our new Commons.”

To get student feedback, VMDO architects and

E-mail General Notes to ‘

 

Ninth Annual Writer’s Harvest to be
Held on W&L Campus

Washington and Lee’s contribution to the ninth an-
nual Writer’s Harvest will take place in duPont Audito-
rium at 7: 15 p.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 14. Writer’s Harvest,
the nation’s largest literary benefit to ﬁght hunger and
poverty, boasts readings by more than 2,000 writers in
600 locations nationwide each year.

Readers this year are Domnica Radulescu, associate
professor of Romance languages at W&L, from a novel
in progress, seniors Anna Baker, Matthew Gooch, and
Sarah Kennedy, Assistant Professor of English at Mary
Baldwin, from her book From the Midland Plain. Per-
forming a scene from David Mamet’s play Oleanna will
be Associate Professor of Theater J .D. Martinez and
senior Zenobia Ginwalla.

Since 1992, Writer’s Harvest has raised over $600,000
to fight hunger and poverty—issues which persist de— rs
photo by Mary Guy/gm; phmogmpher spite our thriving economy. Currently more than 35 mil-

Nelson—Bryd, the landscape architect will hold the first of
two forums Nov. 30 at 4:00 p.m. in Science Center A214.
“The architects are really excited to be working with

the students ” Clarke Sam “The more students Come the WHO NEEDS sLEEP?: Energized by the close race, a crowd of die-hards stays up past midnight '1l1esday 11011 Pe0P1€iI1th€ U-S- “V6 at 0F below the POVCITY 11116
more imput they’ll have.”

to watch CNN’s presidential election coverage in a program sponsored by the W&L politics department. ($16,050 for 3 family of f°“1')- Share our Strength’ ‘me of
V the nation’s leading anti—hunger and anti—poverty orga-

nizations, mobilizes authors, illustrators, publishers and
other literary professionals throughout the fall to share
their strength to alleviate hunger and poverty.

The suggested donation is $10 for adults and $5 for
students. Anyone who cannot attend, but would like to .*-.
make a contribution to SOS should make the check pay- .
able to SOS and send it to Rod Smith c/o Shenandoah,
Troubadour Theater, Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, VA 24450.

   

Courtesy W&L web page

Counseling support group for

women with eating disorders

A support group sponsored by the University Coun-
seling Service will begin meeting weekly for women who
are dealing with binge eating, binge/purge eating, very
restricted eating or compulsive exercise. If you are facing
any of these problems in your daily life, you are invited ‘r
to join this confidential group which meets weekly. Each
member will sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the
first meeting.

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service sec-
retary, at x8590 or the Student Health Service at X8401 to
learn the startup date, time and location.

1
l
l
l
v

  
       

Q SUI?‘

, ‘L’ K... I s.
18 E.__NELSON ST. LEXINGTON 540 464-4483

THE PLACE Tore FOOD AM2 1-'uN 
*ATTENTION*
wE NEED YOLLR HELP. wE NEED
FEEDBACK FROM You ABOUT
SATELLITE PACKAGES. IT You ARE
INTERESTED IN HDCKEY OR
aASI<ETBALL- CDLLEGE 012 PRO-
ON ourz SCREENS PLEASE STOP BY
OR CALL AND LET us KNOW. ANY
AN0NYMouS REQUESTS T012 THE
PLAYBOY CHANNEL wILL NOT BE
CONSIDERED.

FROM THE BROILER
16 oz. T-BONE STEAK W/BAKED ‘ A C

I
I

I

9 9 9 9 9 9/9/9/9  9/9/9 9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9 9/9/9/9/9/9 ‘
0 b h ~\~\~\~\~\~ #\~\~\~\.0\0\0\~\~ ~\0\*\0\0\*\h\\~ h\t\~\~\0 ~\0\~\# 0\#\ﬁ\~ ~\~ ~\~\N\~

637 Waddell St.

mpg (L€§x3:)::§§j§§§°z SPORTSWEAR . POTATO AND MIXED GREEN SALAD jk

$ 6.50  

 

 

NOVEMBER 13, 2000

OFii<i1oN  

Smoking is silly. I know, because I used to smoke like a

factory. I quit two years ago and I’m glad I did. But I think _

it’s time we quit bothering those who continue to smoke

9

are bad. They kill all these people and no one cares.’
What I am actually thinking is, “I really don’t like body
bags, and anyone that uses them to spread their message

cigarettes. What I am referring to
are those ridiculous commercials
on TV where these crazy kids take
body bags and stack them in front

Opinionated Jerk
Geoff White ‘02 .

needs professional help.”

What offends me more is the premise
behind these ads. At the end of the ads,
someone says “What if cigarette ads told

of buildings, throw them out of airplanes, or take them
clubbing. This is supposed to make me not want to smoke.
What these advertisements really do is offend me. I do
not watch these ads and say to myself, “Gee, cigarettes

Gore ’s got to go

For whatever reason, our nation’s vote was split al-
most perfectly in half on Tuesday. However, the advan-
tage did go to George W. Bush and he should be the next
President. Al Gore has now lost the vote in Florida twice,
_ . _ once on Tues-
ght side of the aisle day and again
. ‘ in the recount,

Brett Klrwan 04 but he refuses
to concede the election. Every argument his surrogates have
ﬂoated to boost his case are without merit. Simply, it’s time

' for Gore to step down in what has been an agonizingly

close, but decisive election.

One tack that the Democratic public relations warriors in
Florida have taken is that over 19,000 ballots were thrown
out in Palm Beach County. However, this seemingly high
number is totally reasonable, and expected. In 1996, nearly
15,000 ballots were declared invalid and voter turnout was
higher this year. In Duval County, which Bush won by 44,000
votes, nearly 28,000 ballots were discarded as improperly
punched. Not one Democrat has complained about the
“disenfranchisement”of these voters, yet this was 9 percent
of the total whereas Palm Beach County only discarded 6
percent of its total ballots. I wonder why the Rev. Jesse
Jackson isn’t leading a protest march in Duval County.

Another argument the Democrats have used is that the
ballot itself in Palm Beach county was too confusing, pur-
posefully misleading and possibly illegal. Besides the hy-
pocrisy that Cook County, Illinois, where both Bill Daley
and Jackson voted, uses a nearly identical “butterﬂy”
ballot, this claim has zero chance of legal success. Florida
law states that ballots must “substantially” comply with
the statue’s requirements that ballots have the voter mark

/ an “X” to the right of the candidate’s name. If the law were

followed exactly, as the legislature did not intend, all vot-
ing machines and punch ballots would be illegal in Florida.

Letters to the

Clinical member responds to
egg donor ads

Dear Editor:

I would urge The Ring-tum Phi to reject any advertise-
ments involving the selling of human donor eggs (see ad
in your November 6, 2000 issue and the week before, “Aca—
demic Couple Seeks Egg Donor, 21-28, Right candidate
will be compensated with approximately $7,500”).

For a woman to donate her eggs in any circumstances, I

let alone for money, is an act of serious moral and ethical
concern. There are disturbing short-term and long-terrn
psychological consequences for the donor, the couple
paying for the egg, and for the child so produced. Be-
cause the entire process is usually shrouded in denial and
secrecy there is a lifelong prospect of emotional turmoil,
loss, and unattainable resolve.

Ciltr iiling-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
' Stephanie Bianco
News Editor Matt McDermott
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
‘ Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Contributing Editors Michael Crittenden
Max Smith
_ Jessica Jones
Photo Editor Lisa Lin .
Photographers Colin Mitchell
Mary Guy
Martha Edwards
Graphics/Cartoonist Monica Schoenthaler
Online Editor Ginger Phillips
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Manager, Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washingtonand Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
in the following weeks edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves
the right to edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The ‘Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions

, of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
:E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

the truth?” My response: What ads? Under the 1969 Public
Health Cigarette Smoking Act, all advertising for cigarette
products was barmed from the airwaves. So what we have are
people attacking cigarette advertising that does not exist.

Advertising should stop blowing smoke

Magazines are a different story. If these anti—smoking ‘

zealots want to mess around with body bags, they should
do so in a venue that is fair. We can open our Maxims and
Playboys and watch the Marlboro Man and the Body Bag
duke it out for world supremacy. But the TV should be left
out of it. If that is unacceptable to the anti—smoking cam-
paigners, then they should choose a more appropriate
method of conveying their views.

My roommates and I have already agreed to kill the
Singing Adelphia Pager Man on sight. I can only stand so
much. Get those body bags off my TV.‘

 

As is, the ballot was declared “completely legal” by the
Florida Secretary of State on Friday afternoon. Also,
Florida legal precedent directs that a ballot is legal if a
voter could find the candidate for whom he intended to
vote after a “responsible search.” Do we really want to
leavefthe fate of our republic up to people incapable of fol-
lowing an arrow half an inch across a page? In addition, the
Supreme Court has ruled that ballots should be contested
prior to an election, not afterwards, by the loser.

Team Gore’s case is further hurt by the fact that a Demo-
crat, Theresa LePore, approved the ballot, and in an ironic
twist of fate, said that the candidates’ names had to be printed
on two pages because the type was increased to make vot-
ing easier for the elderly residents of Palm Beach County.

Gore has called for a hand recount only in heavily Demo-
cratic counties, knowing that such a count is open to
Caprice, interpretation, and fraud. He is waiting to eclipse
Bush in the vote tally and then is going to throw Bush’s
rhetoric back in his face.

' Should this third recount turn out the same way the

first two have, the Gore campaign is waging a public rela- I

tions battle to delegitimize the Republican victory. They

. have based their argument on the fact that Gore is leading

in the popular vote tally. But, note_that more than half of
those who voted, voted against Gore. Also, more than
ﬁve million votes remain uncounted nationwide with Gore’s
lead at a measly 185,000. Interestingly, in another example
of this race’s volatility, New Mexico was taken away from
Gore and called “too close.” The most recent reports have
Bush leading by just 17 votes!

Ultimately, this election has already been decided more
than once. Voting machines aren’t perfect, but they are non-
partisan and any mistakes balance out. In unnecessarily
perpetuating this election, Gore has shown himself to be
terribly politically craven, stupefyingly ambitious, and
unconcerned with‘ the nation’s welfare. In sum, he has
demonstrated that he is totally unfit to be President. Gore
should follow the example of two presidents who also
lost by razor-thin margins and, like Nixon in 1960 and
Ford in 1976, concede.

Editor

The woman in whom the egg is implanted and her
husband must live with the life—long issue of the fact that
they “purchased” their child. And for the child there is the
distinct possibility that he or she will never know the true
identity of one half of his or her biological heritage, let
alone ever have contact with her or his material heritage.
The child so produced will face lingering issues of iden-
tity that are more often than not kept secret by the “par-
ents.” And all concerned will be denied information about
the potential risks of inherited genetic factors.

I appeal to The Ring—tum Phi to discontinue accepting
such advertisements and, even more important, for the
women of Washington and Lee to reject any temptation to
donate their eggs in response to such commercialization
of human life.

Sincerely,

Dirck W. Brown

Clinical Member, American Association of Marriage
and Family Therapists

Alum expresses need for
Middle East classes at W&L

. Dear Editor:

It is surprising that W&L, while taking justifiable pride
in listing over 800 courses in the University Catalog, of-
fers no course about the Middle East. For much of the last
100 years, the Middle East has been a volatile region of
increasing importance to the developed, industrialized
countries of the world. Yet the broadly held American
view of the region -is simplistic, failing to take into account
the complexities of economics, politics and religion, all of
which come into play in shaping events in the Middle
East. .

Take for example our myopic view that the root cause
of the Arab-Jewish conﬂict grows out of the establish-
ment of the State of Israel; A more correctreading of his-
tory would begin with the collapse of the Ottoman Empire
in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and trade-offs
made at Versailles following WWI.

Another example is our ﬂawed ﬁnding that Arab coun-

  

“My sister and her husband are -

hosting their first Thanksgiving for

the whole family in Nashville.”
-Martha Combrooks ’01

“Taking a break from all my fans.”

tries are united in their political thinking toward the West
and one another. The facts are that Iraq and Iran are sworn
enemies, the Jordanians and the Syrians have been close
to war with each other on more than a few occasions, and
there is bad blood between the Iranians and Saudis, even
though both peoples would like to be rid of Saddam
Hussein. The list goes on.

Islam is like Christianity in that there are many different
versions of the faith. The contract between Shiites and
Sunnis compares to those between Southern Baptists
and Episcopalians. Islamic Fundamentalists are no more
representative of Greater Islam than Evangelicals are of
Orthodox Christianity.

For the better part of 50 years, the West viewed the

Middle East through the prism of Soviet-U:S. relations, ‘

just as we did political developments in Africa. Each of
the superpower blocks had its clients states. Many Arab
leaders exploited our paranoia for their own purposes and
to remain in power. We vied for the favor of the Egyptians.
The Soviet Union supplied Syria while the U.S. backed
the Saudi Royal Family. The Soviets exacerbated any ten-
sions they could to foment hatred of the West.
Twenty-five years ago, many self-styled “experts” saw
little possibility for a peaceful resolution of Arab—Israeli

hostilities. Then Anwar Sadat ﬂew to Israel and addressed

the Israeli Knesset. Israel made peace, though a cold peace,
with Egypt. Israel made peace with Jordan. Israel has tried
to find a basis for settlement with Syria. But today vio-
lence between Israeli troops and Palestinian rock—throwers
continues to dominate the headlines. Is that all there is to
it? Are these merely misbehaving children who should be
sent to their respective rooms -while the adult nations of
the world impose a’ settlement upon them? Too many
Americans think it is all that simple. We want it over with
quickly and easily so we can move on to other things.
Sorry—that’s not going to happen. If we really want to
understand why and how to bring about peaceful ‘solu-
tion, maybe the university community ought to begin by
learning about the Middle East here at Washington and
Lee. V
Alan M. Corwin, ’62
Member, Alumni Board

 

-Alex Wilkins ’02
food.”

—Amina Elgouacem ’03

“Meeting friends, spending time with
my family, and eating my mom’s good

By Christine Metzger

ackt What are you looking forward to over Thanksgiving break?

 

“Tryptophgan.”

-Colin Tate ’01

 

 

S

Elie ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

PORTS  

      

 

 

 

’ photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

LOCKED UP. W&L grapplers practice for the
2000-01 season. Individual competition began
Sunday, and dual meets start in January.

             
     

Leader
Travel

America's
Student

1n

By Jeremy Franklin-

S1>0RTs EDITOR

Veteran head coach Gary Franke has enumerated very
straightforward goals for his Washington and Lee wres-
tling team in 2000-01.

Franke, in his 28th year as coach of the Generals, wants
an improvement from last season’s 7-5 mark, which in‘-
cluded a 3-3 record in the Centennial Conference. ,

“I think that this team, right now, has the potential to
be a better team than last year,” Franke said. “I hope that
we can have a better dual meet record than last year.” V

The Generals lost two seniors, captains Chad Casto and
Alex McManimen, from the 1999-2000 squad. However, W&L
has plenty of experience, with three seniors and three jun-
iors expected to be major contributors this season.

Spring Break 2001

most reliable air.

Call today for a brochure
and ask how  
you can go for FREE!!!

Seniors Josh Chamberlain (149 lbs.), Greg Valentine
(165), and John Sensing (285) will guide the Generals in
2000-01. Junior Ezra Morse (197), who posted a team best
22-6 overall record last year, returns as well.

Juniors Ben Segal (125) and Ivan Zdanov (174) and sopho-
more John Polena (133) areW&L’s key returning grapplers.

Franke expects freshmen Cory Little (141), Steve Saks,
and Joel Mueller (184) to have an immediate impact. Never-
theless, the coach admits that their inexperience at the col-
lege level provides a level of uncertainty for the Generals.

“We’re practicing, and we’re working on what we think
will make us successful,” Franke said. “It really depends
on how our freshmen do, because we kind of know how
our upperclassmen are going to do.”

After nearly a month of preseason practice, the Gener-
als opened their schedule Sunday with individual compe-

  Franke has wrestling team determined to improve  

tition at the VMI Keydet Invitational. Although dual com-
petitions will not begin until January, the chance to see
his wrestlers in ofﬁcial action is a positive for Franke.

“We’ve been going for four weeks, and we’ve had no
competition,” Franke said. “What [the Keydet Invitational]
does is it gives us an opportunity to compete. It’ll tell us
where we are, and what we need to do.”

W&L will face its stiffest challenge in the Centennial

PAGE 4 NOVEMBER 13, 2000
- »
‘ ' . V Upcoming events in General athletics...
  enera s stunne y   ewport    ,
i . Nov. 17-18 Gettysburg Tournament TBA
. . . ‘ - - - » .. - -  -   Nov. 25-26 Carne ie—Mellon Tournament . TBA
Captalns elunlnate S613: 313:3: atifngzesiiiggdogagi ’ 1'  if   November 29 Shenaidoah 6:00p.m.
   assist from senior Jon Wilson. The geccmberz _ R..an‘,1°,1ph'Ma°°_n 330091“ “
_ Bobcats got on the scoreboard when member 3 Vlrgmla Wesleyan 3'00P'm'
second round win Gao Lasko passed to Adam Fletcher. Women’s Basketball
Whose g031 01“ the 500“? to 3‘1-' November 18 Coe College (Haverford Tournament) 8:00 pm.
By Geoff White Fr°§tbuTg SW6 Sﬁlf-dt“-S.1I1lCted, how- November 19 TBA (Haverford Tournament) TBA
SPORTS WRITER EVCB Wllh 20 minutﬁs left In the Contest» November 21 at Shenandoah 5:00p.m. ’
. when they put the ball in their own net November 29 Lynchburg 8:00 p.m.
The Washington and Lee men’s Grimes wascreditedwiththe goal, which Decembeiz at Rando1ph_MaC0n 2;00p_m
soccer team moved on to the round I providedthe game’sﬁna1margin.
of 16 in the NCAA playoffs with a Sophomore goalkeeper Tim Foley w°men’s Cross Country _ . ,
win over Frostburg State on Saturday, made five saves, and the Generals November 18 ‘NCAA Reglonals (Sp°kane’ Wash‘) TBA F
but lost to Christopher Newport Uni- outshot Frostburg 14-10. Rmgwn Pm. me 0 . Mews socceii _
Versity 0“ S.““day- _ W&Lh‘h°“ ad"a“°°d t° thecsﬁﬁth SUCCESSFUL SEASON. The Generals celebrate their 2000 Old November 18 NCAA Divis_ionl1IQuaiterfinals
The Generals, seeded ﬁrst in the region c ampionship against 's— - - - - - _ . _ _
. NCAA Division III South region, de— topher Newport. Despite outshooting . ::;n1;::n4A::lel:tl‘$i:;?;::fI:V::i:y::lc€V;:1Eyn::(l;:l;:e£) vtvl::hr:u:“(i) Mews and W°me“’s Swlmmmg « A A
livered a 4-1 victory over Frostburg the Captains 12-11, the Generals lost of 16 in 'the NCAA Division In 1 ' ff November 18 at Swanhmore 2:00pm-
State on Saturday in Newport News. by a 1-0 score. M p ayo S‘ November 19 at Gettysburg , 1:00 Pm-
Senior Ryan Nelson opened the Foley made six saves, but was The Generals ﬁnished the season Nelson, and Jon Wilson — will be November 29 Ra“d°1p}_“Ma°°n Woman  (Women Only) .- 63301’-m‘ .
scoring for the Generals with an un- eventually beaten when Oscar Gomez— 19-2, setting a new school record for leaving at the end of the year. Dec’ 1'2 at Franklm & Marshall Invltatlonal 10300 am‘ '
assisted goal 19 minutes into the Romero passed to Matt Boettcher, consecutive wins with 12, a streak With the win against the Generals, Menas and womenasii-idom-Track ”
game. Less than two minutes later, who scored the game’s only goal at broken only with the playoff defeat. Christopher Newport advances to Decembeiz at Virginia Miiiiaiy institute TBA
junior David Kodack scored off an the 61:10 mark. Martin Zelada tallied W&L boasts a young team; only ﬁve face Central region champion Wiscon- _ ‘
assist from sophomore Brad Murphy six saves for the Captains, earning his seniors — Jordan Ginsberg, J acek sin-Oshkosh in the national Wresﬂmg
to put the Generals ahead 2-0. tenth shutout of the season. Mucha, Andy Crawford, Ryan quarterﬁnals. December 2 Scranton Tournament I 10:00a:m' Jr

3

from Western Maryland, ranked 11th nationally in the “

Brute—Adidas‘ Coaches’ Poll. Although a long holiday
break stands in between the Generals and their confer-
ence schedule, their coach doesn’t see any particular dis-
advantage from extra time off.

“The break for Christmas is awfully long, but that’s the
way it’s been for many years,” Franke said. “Most of the
teams are in the same boat.”

W&L ﬁnishes ﬁfth in regional meet

21 schools in Saturday’s NCAA Divi-
_sion III South/Southeast Regional
Meet in Newport News, while the
men’s team ﬁnished 10th out of 21
participating schools.

Head coach Emily Pulsifer knew her
team would be strong entering the
2000 season, but admitted that there
were too many variables to predict
how the Generals would ﬁnish.

° “I knew we were pretty strong, and
that we had some great people retum-

group raced so well in really tough

competition.”

Senior Kathleen Moroney (42nd
overall, 20: 12), junior Gretchen Tencza
(54th, 20:29), and senior Wendy Case
(71st, 20:59) rounded out the Gener-
als’ top ﬁve. A

W&L’s 246 points were good‘

enough for 10tli place in the men’s meet:
Also among the top 10 were Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference schools
Lynchburg (3rd, 131), Roanoke (6th,

of second—place Guilford.
Junior Curtis Bethea tied for 23rd

I

..‘. W&L sports roundup t TtW° W? rgnnérs fflllisélﬁdtilnltihe Generals end up
- op enan mae e -ou e- . _ . _
S P  n 9   By Jeremy Franklin giontearii; s<1>phorrtio1r§ l:i1rke(iI)uncan eighth at ll1Vlt3tl0I13l _
in seven ace a 2 , an senior .

- ff SPORTS EDITOR Jessica Pafrillo in eighth a second The W&L golf team placed elghth

, O  , later Duncan also ualiﬁed for the out of 17 teams in the Guilford/Tom

r k ' . _ . -. . WOIDCH S team P121068 NCAA Division Hlqchampionships O’Bryantlnvitational held Oct. 30.31
Mexico. Jamaica. in top ﬁve, Duncan ......   M .

- 1. _ . Cl1.Sk,Wh- ene soa_overeo-

H EAD Q U ART E RS _ Honda and Texas qualiﬁes for nationals °..i°f:i::Df::C:::nd fjmca Pamuo day event, one stroke behind Oglethorpe

o | . d 111 The Washington and Lee women’s led our team, and ran together the  3: 68:}: 3/liaﬂii
| I    e cross country team placed ﬁfth out of entire way,” Pulsifer said. “The entire Combined Score of 596’ 28 Stmkes ahead 7‘

overall with a score of 157 to lead» .

W&L. Junior Kyle Ulep, sophomore
Chuck Green, and freshman David
Haase all tied for 38th place, as each
finished at 161. Sophomore Chip
Campbell tied for 45m at 163.

The Generals do not compete
again until Feb. 23, when they return
to Guilford College for an Old Domin- ’

ing,” Pulsifer said. “But you never 172), and Catholic (8th, 239). i‘’“ A‘h1°“° C°“f“"”'“°.° me“
Travel ‘I _ know at the beginning of the season‘ Freshman Andy Schorr led the Two  wrestlers ;«
_ — ’ how it’s going to shake down.” men’s team with a 14th place overall 1 t Ke det te
1  U  I L   The Generals 179 points in the fuush at a time of 26.24. Juiuor Ken P ac a Y

counci|trave|.com

www.s’rudentexpress.com

women's competition were bettered
only by Emory (56), Rhodes College
(74), Mary Washington (135), and host
Christopher Newport (160).

J ackman (5 1 st, 27:31), sophomore Wil-
liam Teichman (53rd, 27:33), sophomore
David Hicks (74th, 28:21), and senior
Zach Usher (75th, 28:21) followed.

Junior Ezra Morse won the 197-
pound class in Sunday’s VMI Keydet
Invitational, and senior Josh Cham-
berlain placed third at 147 pounds.

 

Celtic
Con nection

selection of fine irnported goodis frorn
Ireland, Scotland, England & VVales!

V;

Stop by to see our exquisite line of
1 Celtic jevvelry
~ and check ‘out our Christrnas special on
Caithness Glass frorn ScotIand—lV!oor:cry'stal
Papenneights regularly $49.50 'novv $29-50!

Vve have books, rnuslc, artvvork, Aran svveaters,
capes & scarves, t-shirts, tartan ties, kilts 8-
accessories, tvveed .hats. foods, crystal,
perfun1es, and rnuch rnore——sornething for every
budget-——-all giftvvrapped for free!
Shipping available.

Dally 1OAl\ﬂ-5:3OPl\np ~
Sundays through Christrnas, noon—4Pl\II

19 VV- Nelson St-
Lextlngton, _\/A 24450
540-464-6545
1 —877—CEL'TlC-2
vvvv\M-celticconnex-corn
vvvvvv-irishrneaIsl3¥n_1aiI-corn

>'

.‘C

. Junk z-il><)ut it. Then get out il1(?l‘(_‘. and clear your 7‘
l\(.‘.’1(i of tzvorytlmig. Exrtr:-pt fskiiiig. Cull t0< r y 800.266.2444 or wvvw.WintergreenResort.coIn

 

4

 

NOVEMBER 13, 2000

@112 iliing-tum iﬁlii

PORTS

PAGE 5

~W&L hoops teams enter season with high hopes

N

1! -.1

 coi=FEEpeopleMus|c

THE GH

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor
BACK TO THE FUNDAMENTALS. W&L men’s basketball coach Jeff Lafave discusses a play with

members of his 2000-01 team. The Generals open the season Friday in Gettysburg, Pa.

Generals’ prospects go inside-out

Men’s team loses two key
frontcourt starters, but ,
returns depth to backcourt

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Normally one wouldn’t highly anticipate a season after
losing over 19 points and 16 rebounds per game from the
previous year — especially when the current roster fea-
tures just two seniors and one junior.

But second-year Washington and Lee men’s basket-
ball head coach Jeff Lafave has to be at least somewhat
optimistic about his team’s prospects in 2000-01. Despite
the youth of the team, the Generals — who finished 9-16
overall last year, including a 6-12 mark in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference — are far from inexperienced.

“We had a lot of freshmen on the ﬂoor getting some
time last year, so yve’re hoping they’ll contribute this year,”
Lafave said of his quintet of ‘second-year players, who
will be complemented by the same number of freshmen.
“A weakness is trying to mesh the five incoming fresh-
men with five sophomores.”

The Generals will have depth in the backcourt this sea-

Football falls to Swarthmore

son, despite the loss of point guard Walt Plyler. Lafave
feels conﬁdent that sophomore Will Cotter, who saw ac-
tion in all 25 games last year, can run the show from Ply1er’s
slot in the lineup.

“[Cotter] has a good understanding of the offense,
and he’s trying to take a leadership role,” Lafave said. “He
brings to the table something a little bit different than
Walt, as far as scoring off the dribble.”

Senior captains Will Ballard and Chad Braley will join
Cotter in the backcourt, and both will be relied upon on
both ends of the court. Ballard led the team in scoring with
a 9.2-point average in 1999-2000, and Braley contributed
7.9 per game.

Two swingmen, junior Bob Bustamante and sopho-
more Scott Hetterrnan, round out the returning W&L
backcourt. Bustamante, who averaged 8.8 points and 4.6
rebounds a game last year despite missing nine games
due to injury, and Hetterman (6.7 points, 3.7 rebounds)
can play a variety of positions for the Generals.

“We’ve got some versatile kids,” Lafave said of the backcourt.
“We have some depth and we can do some things there.”

The Generals’ inexperience may show up in the frontcourt,
however, with Brian Ricketts (9.0 points, 8.6 rebounds) and
Scott Hudson (7.1 points, 5.3 rebounds) no longer around
to muscle their way inside. Although the Generals have
several talented underclassmen, Lafave is concerned about

physical disparity between last year’s post players and this
season’s class, which features sophomore Jake McAlister
and 6-foot—6 freshmen David Bode and John Saxon.

‘‘It will be very hard (to replace Ricketts and Hudson)
because of the physical size of the young guys,” Lafave
said. “They’re probably more skilled than Brian and Scott,
but they’re 20 pounds away. We’re going to have to re-
bound as a team.”

Even if the Generals get off to another slow start, Lafave
believes his team will be a contender in the postseason. Last

year’s team began the year 04 but won its first ODAC Tourna-
ment game in 10 years against Bridgewater in the quarterﬁnals,
 that W&L will look to build upon in 2()()0-01 .

“Every season has its moments of uncertainty,” Lafave
said. “But anytime you have success on that level, you
can build on it.

“We’re setting ourselves on improving, and what we
need to do to make ourselves successful in February. It’s
going to be a game-in, game-out process.”

The season begins Friday at the Gettysburg Tournament.

ODAC Football Final update

‘ By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Swarthmore rolled up 386 yards of to-
tal offense, including 151 yards and two
touchdovms from tailback Ken Clark, as
the Garnet Tide defeated Washington and
Lee 16-6 Saturday afternoon.

The Generals managed just 179

‘yards of total offense, falling short of
their first six-win season since 1985.
Senior Marc Watson rushed 20 times
for 101 yards, extending his single-
season school rushing record to 1,325.
Freshman Sean McGarvey, making his

- first collegiate start at quarterback,
completed 6—of-13 passes for 43 yards,
but was picked off three times.

On the defensive side of the ball,
junior Jeff Bahl racked up 15 tackles

,_and a sack, giving him a team-leading

108 tackles for the year. Senior Will . « ‘ I ,

Baker, who led the Generals with five
interceptions, picked off a Scott
Murray pass and also tallied 10 tack-
les against the Garnet Tide.

After Clark’s one-yard TD run put
Swarthmore up 6-0 with 9:43 left in the
first quarter, sophomore Chris Sullivan

returned the ensuing kickoff back 80 ‘

yards for the game-tying score.

A two-yard touchdown run from
Clark put the Garnet Tide back on top
with 12:01 remaining in the game, and
Rob Castelluci’s field goal with 2:42
to play extended the lead to ‘16-6.

The Generals ﬁnished the 2000 sea-
son 5-5 overall, posting a 2-4 mark in
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence, resulting in a fourth—place tie
with Hampden-Sydney and
Randolph-Macon.

 

in season finale

  

Standings ODAC Overall 1
Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
”” " Emory&Henry-x 5 1 203 158 8 2 315 199
Bridgewater 5 1 244 106 9 1 .361 146
Catholic 4 2 261 167 6 4 326 248
Washington&Lee 2 4 113 166 5 5 223 232
Hampden-Sydney 2 4 160 155 4 6 270 256
Randolph-Macon 2 4 118 162 3 7 166 277
Guilford 1 5 93 278 1 9 126 444

Sydney 17

Ring-(um P/Ii File Photo

November 11 Results
Swarthmore 16, W&L 6'
Bridgewater 46, Catholic 33
Randolph-Macon 26, Hampden-

Emory & Henry 34, Maryville 17
Greensboro 35, Guilford 20

l
l

NCAA Division III Playoffs

First Round (November 18)

Western Maryland at Emory & Henry

Bridgewater at Washington &
Jefferson

x-2000 ODAC Champions

NEUTRAL ZONE. The Generals’ defensive line prepares for an
Emory & Henry snap in the Wasps’ 24-10 Parents’ Weekend
win. W&L closed out its 2000 season Saturday with a 16-6
non-conference road loss to Swarthmore.

ED1ToR’s NOTE:

originally scheduled to appear in this week’s issue, will run
in the December 4 edition of the Phi.

Stories on the rugby and water polo teams,

eveljy monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

November 13
November 27

December 4 Ringsend

 

House Mountain
The Larry Keel Experience

1

more

  

LEXINGTON

 C 01; FEE
()(IA'I/IP17:/+Z71;()IIy1('lI‘ly
FRESH EACH MORNING

ESPRESSO ' CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ° FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON - 464-6586

 

 

PAGE 6

Just because you’re a
woman doesn't mean you
have to get offended

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬂlrt

LASTWORD

NOVEMBER 13, 2000

 

 

Me lose election: That’s unpossible?!

George W. Bush, Republican Golden Child and prob-
able President—Elect, got a big surprise on Election Day
after he found out that he didn’t win the race for presi-
dent. . . or lose it for that matter. The Bush campaign’s
polls had indicated, in fact, that G.W. was poised to win
popular election, but likely to lose the Electoral College;
thus, the Bush folk had ﬂooded the media with rhetoric
about making sure that the “VV1ll of the People” would
be respected. Now, those very same people are trum-
peting that the integrity of the Constitution must be pre-
served. Whatever ends up happening to Bush is irrel-
evant, what truly holds signiﬁcance is how the United
States government deals with the situation.»

The situation in Florida is unique in the history of our
country. Although presidential races have been close in
previous years, two anomalies have arisen that make
the case in Florida completely unprecedented: barrages
of lawyers and a borderline monkey-retarded media.

The media incorrectly reported the results of Florida
not once, but twice in the course of the election night,
which stirred up trouble in both the Bush and Gore carn-
paigns. The second time the media called the election,
they spurred Gore into making a concession call to Bush.

Now, I can only imagine what Al Gore said when he
had to call Bush back, “You know, George, how I said all
that stuff about this being a good race, and the better
candidate winning. . . well, I was just kidding — screw

\dH'A1% wt? wit”

 

    

BMichael Critenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

In response to a phone call I received this week from
two loyal readers, Mr. Sterchi and Mr. Radcliffe, I have
decided to choose this week’s beer based on its
compatability with seafood dishes, speciﬁcally a lobster
and brie cheese bisque. Though I know I didn’t get back to
you guys in time for your dinner, for future reference, the
right beer for the meal would be the Shipyard Brewing Co. ’s
Summer Ale.

Another beer hailing from the ﬁne state of moose, lob-
ster, and skiing, Shipyard’s Summer Ale is modeled after
classic Bavarian wheat beers. A paradigm of the traditional
American wheat beer that has cropped (sorry, bad pun) up
in the last 20 years, Summer Ale has a less aggressive taste
than its Bavarian counterparts. For those looking for a clean,
cool taste, its inviting golden color, mellow malted wheat
ﬂavor and less hoppy characteristics are the perfect comple-
ment. Brewed with Hallertau hops and Two-row British
Munich, Pale—Ale and malted wheat malts, Shipyard Sum-

starring ryan truax

A i’~rri<-»°~1- WI‘    

you!<irIsert obnoxious fart noise here with appropri-
ate giggling in the background>”

I I mean, Gore probably got a good chuckle out of
the entire affair, but the fact that he was put into that
position by the media’s irresponsible reporting wasn’t
fair. People in states on the West Coast, too, may have
been inﬂuenced strongly by the results of the elections
on the East Coast —— and the media’s misrepresenta-
tion —- no let’s not kid ourselves, blatant dumbassity
— of the voting results could have completely thrown
the election the other way.

Some right-wing pundits have even claimed that
media’s coverage was part of a vast liberal, Holly-
wood conspiracy to oust the Republicans from their
position of power. Of course, most of the people who
say that are kooks. . .

The second major election anomaly is that the elec-
tion has now been put out of the control of the Ameri-
can people and into the control of money-grubbing,
power-pining lawyers. The biggest post-election night
news on the various candidates was which lawyers
and how many of them were being dispatched to
Florida to represent the Bush and Gore campaigns.
The legal battles over the recounts, the confusing bal-
lots, and the legitimacy of the entire election of Florida
might just decide who the next President will be.

While the letter of the law must obeyed, it should

L, Q5

 

 

«swam-...a-I

not be twisted and exploited like a pair of used edible
underwear. And as everyone who is familiar with the
O.J. Simpson trial knows, lawyers are prettydamn good
at doing exactly that.

There have been very few elections in American

history in which the votes of its citizens have counted ‘

for so much and for so little. In states such as Florida,
Wisconsin, and Oregon the margins between Bush and
Gore have been mere thousands of votes and in
Florida’s case, less than 500 votes separated the two
candidates. .

If just a few more American citizens had exercised
their God- and Veteran- given right to vote, the country
would not be in the dispute it is facing now. Yet under
our country’s Electoral College system, the fact that
Gore received more of the popular vote is irrelevant.
Now, the race for the position of president is won through
playing a huge game of geopolitical Risk, rather than
trying to win over the support of the entire American
populace. I

It is ironic that the entire election has boiled down to
the legal battle over a single ballot, in a single county, in
a single state and the only thing left for the American
people to do is to watch the “Exclusive, All-Encom-
passing Election Coverage on Prirne—Tirne Television.”
But then again, it could be worse: we could live in
Canada, eh?

   

  

  i ll  

   
    
     
 
 
  

         
 

   
 

 ”* ?. ~ ..A‘ ‘mars. : - ‘'7'’
watt $‘FATE« 13*? ﬁéEJ:u:3T;:_3— §":ﬁ,::§§§:%rE§R,§§ E
.. V = 2 - E  err  - z -
‘t5tei%r””:t.f5i "’
%4£:1§J€§»¢fi:¢*~J5fi§

4.-::2I

 

mer is another finely crafted brew from Brewmaster Alan
Pugsley.

The beer is best served with a lemon or lime, and
brings back memories of warm summer nights at Two
Lights State Park in Cape Elizabeth, grilling on the l940’s—
era carrrp grills and hanging with friends. First brewed in
1995, Summer Ale is brewed from April-August and is
available in both 12 02. bottles and kegs, not in the usual
22 oz. bottles that Shipyard offers almost every other
beer in their repertoire.

Originally founded as Federal Jack’s Brew Pub in
Kennebunk, Maine, Shipyard moved to a four—acre plot
on Newbury St. in Portland, Maine in 1994, on the very
site where famed American poet Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow was born. The brewery has undergone three
expansions and now produces over 85,000 barrels of beer
a year. In 1996 the company opened the ﬁrst rnicrobrewery
and brewpub in an airport at the Orlando International
Airport. _

Available in the Northeast and in Florida, I give Ship-
yard a 17 out of 20 on the recentered “Yai-Craig” beer
scale. A great beer for seafood dinners, and especially
bisques, Shipyard Summer Ale is another in the long line
of ﬁnely crafted Maine beers. I know, I know, I have to
branch out, which is why in my next column I will be
reviewing the local pub/bar Traveller’s for their beer se-
lection and ambiance. Once again, I appreciate all phone
calls and emails with suggestions for future beer col-
umns. Any ideas, email me at crittendemn@wlu.edu, and
until next time, tip one back for me.

  
::  W3‘. V 4‘ J1’   p:

    

 ,,,,,,,.   i ,     
Iwr   we I-Iw   ~

Meet 13: LEMMA. QE TEE WEEK.

If you lost a Senate race to a candidate that was
already dead, would you consider suicide a
career move for your next election?

  

     

rm pi

Are You 21 Non-Business Major?

l)o You Want to Improve Your Marketability?

 

The

Learn the
fundanwentals of:

0 Accounting
Finance

00600

  

I-Ia.a.s School of Business
at the Llniversity of California, Berkeley
Intensive BASE Sulnrner Prograrn IS FCDRYCLJI
July 9 - August I 7, 200 I

  

- Fdarketing
0 C)rganizationaI Behavior
I-lands-on rnarket & ﬁnancial research
Business related cornputer applications
Effective concnrnunication 8: presentation skills
Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

Arts, Sciences. and Engineering students vvill beneﬁt frorn
this rigorous. six-vveek surnrner curriculurn that will
include lectures. case studies. cornpany visits, guest
speakers and student presentations-

For rnore Inforrnation. correct our website at:
http:IIhaas.be:-keley-eduIUnderg:-adlBASE..ht.rnI
or via ernail at: BASE@haas-berkeley.edu

by david mamet

directed by zeenie ginwalla
a senior thesis project

 

dec. 1, 2, 4 & 6 , 2000 at 8 p.m.

1'\NO GREAT SHOWS IN REPERTORY
JOHNSON THEATRE * LENFEST CENTER
TICKETS AND INFORMATION 540/463-8000

by jaston williams, joe sears and ed howard
directed by francis mcwilliams

and blair ‘mitchell

a senior thesis project

    

dec. 2, 2000 - 2 p.m.
dec. 3 & 7, 2000 - 8 p.m.

dec. 5, 2,000 - 9 p.m.

‘.

U

 

