he ‘illtng-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

45%;: .,

§‘a,‘G'.’.'_',o;.j7 -.._-p

VOLUME 103, No. 1

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY APRIL 24, 2000

Ellie lﬂht

April 24,
2000

Men’s Lacrosse
wins ODACs

Saturday’s pounding of
Hampden-Sydney sealed
the General’s victory
page 4

Eek! What to
do when your
parents come to

town

How one W&L student
deals with family stress
page 2

What draws
prospectives to
W&L?

Talkback asks the
question to accepted

students
page 2

Baseball heads
to ODACS

With the double-header
sweep of Lynchburg
W&L clinches a spot at
the ODAC tournament
this Saturday
page 4

The f-word.isn’t

a bad word

A W&L student’s
explanation on why the
word feminism is not to be
thought of as scary
page 2

“No worries!”

Learn what this means and
other fun facts about
Australia from W&L’s Wind
Ensemble
page 3

Sophomore
Sarah Schmidt
takes home 1st in
javelin ODACS
for year number
two

Find out more about the
ODAC track meet
page 4

Accepted students take over Washngton & Lee

By Alexis Yee-Garcia

NEWS EDITOR

Over 200 high school students from
all over the country descended upon
Washington and Lee on Friday for
Accepted Student Visitation Day.
Students and their families came from
as far away as California to view the
school and talk to current students and
faculty in hopes of making their college
decision easier.

Most students arrived on Thursday
evening and spent the night with a
freshman host in the dorms. President
John Elrod welcomed the prospectives
on Friday morning, describing the
many advantages of the honor system
and a W&L education.

“He talked a lot about Robert E. Lee
and gentlemanly behavior,” said
Heather Bane, a visiting senior from
Troutville, VA.

Members of the Student
Recruitment Committee also met with
the visiting seniors at a lunch held
after President Elrod’s speech.

“I can deﬁnitely say they were all
really nice and very friendly” said
Junior Nathan Urquhart, SRC
Chairman. “It was also a much more
diverse group than we usually get,
which was really good.”

Representatives from academic
departments spoke to the students as
a group and met with interested
individuals to introduce the special
programs available at W&L.

“The head of the [Shepherd]
Poverty Program met with me and told
me they even have a community
service program in Roanoke that starts
in the summer for incoming freshmen,”
said Bane.

Each visiting student had their own

personalized schedule for the day built
around their anticipated major and
potential extracurricular activities.
Students interested in playing varsity
sports at W&L had individual
meetings arranged with the coaches
to learn more about the programs
available. Lauren Taxter, a visiting
senior from Dublin, OH, met with
Coach Janine Hathorn to discuss
women’s lacrosse.

“It’s easier to get excited about
sports when you meet the coach and
they’re happy about their team and
their job,” said Taxter.

Despite having an extra person to
take care of for up to three days,
freshman hosts had no complaints
about sharing their lives and dorm
rooms with the visiting seniors.
Freshman Blake Jones, Taxter’s host,
and roommate Lee Kirven were happy
to open their room and welcome Taxter
to W&L, even though it meant Jones
had to give up her bed and sleep on
the ﬂoor in a friend’s room. Taxter
even skipped the class scheduled for
her to attend classes with Jones
instead.

“Originially she was supposed to
go to a politics class, but she didn’t
really know anyone that was going
and it wasn’t really a subject she was
interested in, so she just came with
me,” said Jones. “I think she was a
little overwhelmed [by my class] but it
turned out ﬁne.” , _

Though admissions provided a
schedule for the visiting students
during the day, the freshman hosts

. were responsible for showing off more

of the non-academic aspects of the
school. Freshmen Meredith King and
Patrice Wedderburn gave their
prospective students an insider’s tour

photo by Tiffany Freidel/Photo Editor

WHICH WAY To THE LIBRARY? Accepted students and their families roam the campus during
Accepted Students Visitation Day on Friday.

of the freshman dorms and later took
them to the MSA D.J. party in the GHQ.
Sigma Chi’s Derby Days and other
spring term festivities also provided
plenty of opportunities for visiting
students to explore the W&L social
scene. .

“Blake took her to Pole House [:1

brothers],’’ said Kirven. ‘‘I talked to
her when she got back and she said
she had a good time.”

SRC members and admissions staff
also felt that the visiting students had
a good time and considered the day to

be a success though they hope for

more involvement from the student

“What really worked well was that
a lot of students who had already
[decided to come to W &L] still came
and made it more exciting for the
students who weren’t sure,” said
Urquhart. “I think a lot of the students
who weren’t sure found out what the
real W&L was like. It was a good

country house owned by Sigma Chi bod). next ye”

Two HAND TOUCH. Senior Matt Thurlow and junior Phelps Harmon coach Kappa Delta in Wednesday’s
powderpuff football game against Theta during this year’s Derby Days activities.

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Photo Editor

Illegal drugs found in student’s room

Freshman Robert
Hanawalt faces 5

felony drug charges

Hanawalt was taken to Rockbridge Regional
Jail and was released on a $2,500 bond the same

day.

He faces ﬁve felony charges, including two
counts of distribution of an imitation substance
sold as opium, two counts of distribution of an

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Freshman Robert Hanawalt was arrested
and charged with ﬁve felony offenses on

Friday, April 7 during exam week.

Hanawalt, from Chesapeake, Virginia, is
charged with dealing imitation opium and
marijuana from his Graharn-Lees dorm room.

According to the Rockbridge Weekly, the
Rockbridge Regional Drug Task Force
obtained a warrant to search the room two
weeks ago. The Task Force searched
Hanawalt’s room around 3 :40 a.m. that Friday.
They recovered 416.5 grams of a substance
Hanawalt was selling as opium, in addition to

a smaller amount of marijuana.

imitation substance on school property, and
one count of distribution of more than one-half
ounce, but less than ﬁve pounds, of marijuana.

W&L’s policy on illegal drugs outlined in
the Student Handbook states that, “students
are adults who are personally responsible for
conforming their behavior to federal, state and
local laws and University policy.”

In the state of Virginia, all ﬁve charges are
felonies, with possession of more than one-half
ounce but less than ﬁve pounds of marijuana
punishable with up to ten years in prison and a

$2,500 ﬁne.

imitation opium.

University administrators will not comment

The Student Handbook does not outline
state laws about possession and sale of

on the matter because it is now being
handled by the judicial system.

University policy on the sale of illegal
drugs is direct referral to the Student
Judiciary Council with the recommendation
of immediate suspension from the Dean of
Students, currently Dean Howison.

In the case of a student arrest for
violation of state and federal drug laws,
the Dean of Students is to review the case
along with the Chairman of the SJC. The
SJC can take no action, besides
suspension of the student, until the
criminal proceedings are carried through.

According to the Student Handbook,
the University, “will conduct an on-going
educational program to acquaint students
with the Commonwealth of Virginia laws
on drugs, with the health dangers of drug
abuse, and with the medical and counseling
resources available for students, [in order
to] promote personal responsibility and
accountability.”

representation of W&L.”

SAB Presents
Kevin Nealon

By Michael Crittenden

F EA TURES EDITOR

Washington and Lee students will be entertained by
the comic stylings of famed comic Kevin Nealon this
Thursday. _

Nealon, most famous for his time on NBC’s “Saturday
Night Live” sketch-comedy show, will be performing in the
Warner Center on Thursday, April 27th at 9 p.m.

The show, being put on by the Student Activities Board,
will be the board’s ﬁrst show of Spring Term. According to
SAB President Dave Levinson, student response has been
great.

“I think that a lot of people are really excited about what
this show is going to be,” Levinson said. “Nealon is a
really big name and I think turnout should be great.”

Nealon’s largest impact on the comic world was during
his time on “Saturday Night Live,” the longest running
sketch-comedy show on network television. He holds the
record for the longest running cast member in SNL history,
and worked with actors like Mike Myers, Dana Carvey,
Chris Farley, Bill Murray and Phil Hartman.

Nealon always had a knack at playing straight
characters who would surprise the audience with a bit
of lunacy or with abject cluelessness. His most well
known role is probably as the anchor for the classic
SNL skit “Weekend Update.” Nealon played the role
with a dry, sometimes sarcastic, but always funny sense
of humor that garnered him a following of loyal fans
around the country.

In addition to his time as an SNL cast member, he has
also been featured in a number of movies including “Happy
Gilmore” (1996), the
“Wedding Singer”
( I998) and “Coneheads”
(1993). He is currently
working on a new ABC
sitcom with Richard
Lewis titled “Hiller and
Diller” that is set to air
this fall.

The choice of a
comic for the SAB is a
step from the standard
SAB schedule in recent
years. Levinson said this was because the current board
wanted to switch things up a bit and do something a little
different for the student body.

“We’ve been tossing around the_ idea of bringing in a
comic for sometime now, and decided the beginning of
spring would be a great time for it,” one SAB member said.
“It will give students an alternative to the bands we always
bring in.” ‘

Tickets for Thursday’s show will be sold this week in
front of the co-op for $8, $10 at the door. Doors will open at
8 p.m. on Thursday, and after a brief opening act at 9,

http://www.capito|int.com/kevin.htm

Nealon will begin perfonning sometime after 9:30. All

students are encouraged to attend.

 

APRIL 24, 2000

Oh‘ii<i1oN

The “t”—Word

The walls didn’t crumble and there
were no protests, despite feminist and
writer Susan Faludi’s presence on cam-
pus last week. I was sure that some-
one would have had a “We still don’t
want girls at W&L unless they are for
entertainment purposes only” sign
somewhere in the audience.

Yes, I went to the speech and I was
glad I did. Faludi proved intelligent
and witty, although she covered a vast
amount of material in her speech. She

I’
spoke about what itmeant to beafemi- jail for a possession charge than for ACCEZEEED
nist nowadays, relations between men committing a crime of incredible bru- “mg

and women, and

the great American writers (even I en-
joy him) and his woman-hating ten-
dencies are overlooked seeing his con-
siderable contributions to American
literature. Yet hating men is somehow
a greater sin than hating women.
Crimes speciﬁcally against women
(like rape, spousal abuse, etc.) are gen-
erally not attacked with the same fe-

rocity in the legal system than being .

caught with an ounce of marijuana. A
man will more likely get more time in

tality and vio-

 

managed to get in
a few cracks about
the media. . The
most important
point, at least in
my opinion, was that “feminist” is not
a dirty word.

I once told my friends that I was a
feminist. They cringed in disgust.
One avidly declared that I wasn’t. He
said, “You don’t hate men!” I replied,
“No, I don’t. But I do believe in equal
wage for equal work.”

Then one of my female friends de-
clared she wasn’t a feminist, even
though she clearly enjoys all the ben-
eﬁts that the Women’s Movement in
the mid-seventies allows her, and she
attends this ﬁne institution which only
went co-ed 15 years ago. But she isn’t
a man hater and wants to start a family
one day, so she’s not a feminist, at
least in her own eyes.

Somewhere along the line, after
women ﬁnally starting climbing the
corporate ladder and making progress
towards civil equality, “feminist” be-
came synonymous with “scary militant

Coffee Talk
Heather McDonald ’01

lence against a
fellow human
being — a
crime that at-
tempts to as-
sert that he is “a man.”

Basically, the playing ﬁeld of Ameri-
can society is not level. Men still have
an upper hand and both men and
women allow the status quo to keep
moving in that direction. Millions of
men and women alike joined forces to
let the world know that just because
someone doesn’t have a penis doesn’t
mean that they aren’t smart enough to
hold certain jobs or positions in soci-
ety.

To me, being a feminist means as-
serting that I have equal civil rights to
any other citizen. Feminism means that
if I want to go out and work, I can —
and if I want to stay at home and raise
ten kids, I can do that, too. It means
that men can have those choices, too,
so that ultimately America can progress
towards a society based on freedom
and equality that our founder outlined
over 200 years ago.

 

Xx  A E as
*\ sTUoCgCml:l D M

          
   

iFiKID Y MOM

 
  

Q’
4901: Q

H 0 $'\'
QTUDENT

Yikes! Mom and dad are hereagain

Be afraid. Be VERY afraid. Even
though you are aware they are coming
to see you, they never fail to ﬁighten
you with their
ghastly loud cack-
les and other means
of harassment.

Am I talking
about the boogie man? Some cheesy
movie monster? Bed bugs? Your least
favorite member of the administration?
No, folks, whatl speak of is far scarier,

The Rambler
Mike Agnello ‘02

same questions he always does but
forgets the answers to. Little bro de-
cides to go through every cabinet in
the kitchen and ar-
range the glasses
and pots so that a
giant spaghetti pot
sits on top of three
wine glasses, breaking them all. Little
sis kindly tries to vacuum, but
winds up burning a hole in the car-
pet and causing a frightening elec-

“A big strong boy like yourself can
handle it,” she said, continuing on one
of her trademark rants. “If I can suffer
through twenty hours of excruciating
labor pains just to bring you into this
world, you can survive this weather
with short sleeves.” There’s not a
whole lot one can say to this.

After nearly going out to eat at
Salerno’s, mom suddenly remembers
that it’s Good Friday and we’re Catho-
lie, so no meat. We go to this place

woke up a sweaty mess. Because of all
the troubles I mentioned I did not get
any sleep until 6 a.m.

As soon as I open my eyes at 11,
the phone rings. I stare at it with hor-
ror, trembling with sweat. I pick it up,
and it’s dad, sounding more cheerful
than I can stand.

“Hey son! Did you get a good
night’s sleep?”

“UGGHHHHHHNOOOHISSSS [in-
sert hacking cough].’’

3.

' .” ’ H fllFld'hld h .. .. . .. . ‘t
llisblall ma." hater l dim lhate m,ell . ope ll y a u l e P6 open t e so scary thatavisit from them will d1s— trical shock when she finds that with a large seafood buffet, my least “Glad to hear it! Would you like to
(in fact, at times I ratherlike them),I m minds of those who heard her speak, . . . . . . , . . . . .
- . . . . . . rupt the very foundation of your life- nasty bit of refuse, the electriccal wire. favorite type of food. I m already sick go on a drive with the famil , travelin
I h h k h V 5
llotalesblan’ and wlllle attlllles some or at east go” emt lll mg" Wlt out our famil Mine came to see me this Morn takes it u on herself to com- from et la a cold and a sore thro t in rando d’ t' t ll
might call me scary, I’m certainly not the Feminist Movement, 40% of the y k d y" . ,  J .g’ ’ .a: . . m ,lre?),j°lls’ no rea y ever
militant W&L O ulation w0uldn,t be here wee en , and even though it s not yet pletely reorganize my clothes and andthe fried oysterslate out of polite doing anything.
What a Shame there,S no equal term That 4g%pw0rked just as hard as the’ oveXfIt’m trying to recover. _ ' books in my bedroom, throwing any- ness came back to haunt me that night. I somehow manage to tell him that I no
, 0 . er my not especially painful, if thing that has long sleeves into a box I was so sick that I didn t even have a lot of work to do and am still
for woman hater’ There 5 always the other 60%) that ls here for the W&L mundane recountin of in s rin and ta in it u announcin that this bother oin out andlwent tral ht to feelin ve in ch nde th w ther
term “misogynist,”but that isn’t com- experience. That alone should be . ’ . . g .y  g . p. g p’ g . . g g . . 5 lg g ry ll ‘u r e eai ’
. . . break in Austrailia, my family disap— will go into storage the following day. bed at 9 on a Friday night. I had a both true (so back off, EC). The point of
mollly used unless to descrlbe Emesl ellougll to make us reallze that fem‘ eared to the comers of m a artment “But mom it’s oin to be 45 de- reall sc dream in which Iwas Bill this inane rarnblin '7 Y famil l
Hemlllgway' lllsm — and eqllallty — ls not a bad gad stayed with me and aisked the grees tonight l” I sag-id g Clini/on asltiiapped to a ume and you, and thatcan Eftenibuertiie riobifd/:15 ’
Nevertheless, Hemingway is one of thing. Feminist isn’t adirty word. ’ ' g y’ P ‘
Diversit is key in the market lace of ideas
uote of the Week: . . . y P .  . I . . . *
A5 31311118 Tenn be 1115 this Yeah i look forward to an- to some recent cam us events that have reall disturbed a resident-like ﬁ ure treasurer social committee c. 11 -
8 p y i p g , , et , v
'°the1’ fl-in teilin tiiisd With students taking °ia55o5 the)’ not‘ me: the diversity/inclusion survey that a large portion ing in a former fraternity house with faculty advisers —
{( inaii)’ W01iidnlthaVo the opportunity to — lCia55o5 _iike, of the student body has “randomly” been asked to hmmm, sounds like just another fraternity to me. Of course
H Cy __ lam  I count “The Tambourine and You: A ‘HlSt0I‘lCa‘i‘ PerSpect1Ve,” take — I was immensly offended by this survey for a this one is different because it is being funded by the Uni- }
' ° °Vei')/one 5 taV011t€i1t1ht1an5iat1oh C1355, The Literature number of reasons, not just because the questions it versity so that they can bring in speakers and do service
—— Anonymous junior girl 0fEa5to1’n E111 opoan Basket WeaVing” and soianoe Classes featured were so blatantly aimed at making a student projects. Oh wait, fraternities already do community ser-
for non-masochists. . . I mean majors, like “Reactions in look like a bigot unless they were the paradigm of in- vice projects and foster a good academic environment.
X) G1a1n5 and Yeasts-” clusiveness, but also because some of the individual If the school gave a fraternity a few thousand dollars
A SP1ihg Tenn i5 ai5o a time of fun and 51111 after 311 those questions were so ridiculous. (the rumored amount the Living Learning Center is get- Q
Please Submlt Winte1 doiditiins that haVo been biinging the sohooi 1110- Most questions provided answers that forced the taker ting is $5000), I am sure they would bring in speakers,
_ . iaie d°Wn- F01 f1o5h111en 811)’5 they can once again hang to appear as if they sat on one side of the fence or the too.
Letters to the Edltﬂr out atthoi11e5PoCtiVe fiateinity h0_i15€5 aftaf haPP_Y action other on issues, where I believe most students would fall It seems to me that the only difference this new house
_ . fun time (1-"~ Piedgeship) and trying t0 raise their GPAS into a middle category that the survey didn’t allow for. has over the other fraternities on campus is that its mem-
t0 the Rlng_ tujn Phl back up the iast tWo Weeks ofiast toi1n~ My biggest problem was that bers profess to be against the dominant social scene at »‘
_ . They no longer have forced runs to Stop- space was not given for me to w&L,
Dil°P ‘iii Riioiii 208 University Center In or the pisasufos of“study hail,” the)’   justify answers that I marked, an- If they feel that strongly about how much they hate
can hang out With the guys they met M ha 1 C . d , swers that are undoubtedly go— the “dominant social scene,” I question their motives in
during fall term once again, only this C C mien en 01 ing to be looked at as racist and coming here in the ﬁrst place. Maybe it is just me, but )1
time the)’ haVo t0 Pay foi their own bigoted. One line of questions when I was choosing colleges I looked a school’s aca-
4' 0 0 beer 0nC_e in a While. The bitterncss asked if I would repeat a joke I heard defaming a certain demic and social environments and ﬁnally decided based
I B T  I is gone (111 most Cases, though 501116 seem to be €XPoCt- group of people to my friends. I said yes, but I wish I was on where Iwould ﬁt in the best on both fronts. I didn’t just
1113 Cookies 01 b1oWin65 to be baked for thonl or for able to qualify that with the stipulation “only if the joke go to a college and once there decide I hated the school
their hands to be hsid before they make their Ways back was funny.” and what is was all about and then feel the need to attem t y
P

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Brendan Harrington
Heather McDonald
Tiffany Friedel

Lisa Lin

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors
Sports Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo,Editor

Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w/u.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

to the fraternity houses) and freshman guys start to
ﬂex their proverbial muscles.

For freshman girls, they spend as much time as they can
in the BDG quad and out at Goshen, and many fearfully
realize that they need to ﬁt four more trips to the Gaines
weight room in a week to be able to ﬁt into that new sundress
they bought for their sorority formal.

Spring Term is also all about the events that “every-
one” has to go to: Foxﬁeld, Buffalo Creek, Alumni Week-

 

 

“Student—faculty ratio.”
- Franklin Annand ‘O4?

“Tradition!”

Because I was not allowed to stipulate that the joke
had to be funny, my answer comes across as not under-
standing and not inclusive, and that sort of bothers me.
My biggest problem is that the survey results will un-
doubtedly be skewed and interpreted to make us all look
like a bunch of racist, backwards, PC hating, spoiled kids
who like the status quo. This will be a clarion call to put
more funding into new programs for “non-traditional”
activities, organizations and ideas. Ideas like the new

to ruin it for the rest of the students who made a good
decision for themselves.

It seems to me that there are a number of students who
came to Washington and Lee without regard for the char-
acter and history of its institutions, both social and ethical,
and who now expect the rest of us to change the Univer-
sity we love because they wanted something different out
of their college experience. I don’t think that is fair to the
rest of us.

 

 

j-Evan Osborne ’04? be here.”

“All the students are happy to

“W&L Chi-Os are the hottest
in the world!”

- -2

end io5tiVitios, as W611 a5 enough date functions and miX- “Living, Learning Environment” that is taking the place of I fully support there being a wide-range of ideas ex— A’
The Ring-W" PM is Pubiishsd Mondays during tho 615 to kiii a h015o- the Delt House next year. pressed on this campus, however, in recent months there
Undoigraduato school Yoai at Washington and L66 Spring Tenn is a time of tuna t01nto0ioi'Y and new Fo- This leads me to my second complaint: the Living Learn- seems that only ideas that are politically correct in nature
 l;ien):lal:igll0l;;0\[]nAz‘id5ll:ltlilllig f°rdThebR'"$':."m iiiaiictljs — 3 renaissance °iihe Washington and Lee 5Pi_1it- ing Center — 19 guys with a similar interests and ideals count. Even ideas that aren’t politically correct still de-
' p 3', C mg a"_ 5‘? “"9 '°“ For this reason i need to make 8 f6W Comments responding living together with a house-mom-like ﬁgure (sorry Amy), serve to be expressed in the marketplace of ideas. .I
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent. 0 0
      ALI{bak, Why are you interested in W& I J
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the .. ' ‘

 

 

APRIL 24, 2000

By Mary Woodard

vi. STAFF WRITER

Australia! Home of the salad sand-
wich, land of many boomerangs!
On Thursday, April 6, forty some-

9‘ odd students from the Washington

and Lee University Wind Ensemble
piled on to a bus in front of Dupont
Hall to begin one of the longest jour-
neys we have yet to endure. Three

hours by plane to LA, ﬁfteen hours to
Sydney, and an hour and a half ﬂight
to Melbourne.

‘ -A In Melbourne, we were greeted fan-

tastically by our respective host fami-
lies. The Australian people, on the

 

1*»,

hours by bus to D.C., ﬁve and a half '

 

whole, are a genuinely happy lot of
characters. This is even evident in their
speech. Sometimes, when saying
“goodbye”, they will replace this salu-
tation with “no worries.” It was rather
refreshing to be continually bom-
barded by happy people.

It was a bit mind-boggling at times,
but intriguing. I suppose I especially
realized the “information gap” the great
distance between our country and

» theirs has created when I was having a

conversation in Mount Beauty. If you
think Lexington is small town life, you
haven’t come close to imagining Mount
Beauty. You can walk through the cen-
ter of town in three minutes. The
nightlife consists of scooter car racing

“ MARSUPIAL ANYONE? Junior Scott Meister feeds a kangaroo
near Albury, New South Wales.

The Ultimate Internet Gamcshow

Grand Prize $5,000

High Score Month of April

«\V

  
   

photo courtesy of Mary Woodard

 ' @112 ilting-tum ﬂirts

Journey to Oz: The wind ensemble’s spring trip to Australia

and the infamous Workmen’s Club.

So much of Australia is untouched
by civilization, which is really quite
wonderful. They don’t have the great
web of highways, interstates, and
roads that unite the USA. The juxta-
position of different trees across the
grasslands, and their random place-
ments, create an entirely different en-

\ 9:-

t:%~%’§ —

Army College Fund.

Recruiter.

vironment than any country I have
ever visited. I experienced some of
the most amazing sunsets across the
water while sitting on peaceful
beaches that were seemingly un-
touched by human hands.

Life is different “down under.”
They see constellations we cannot
from our vantage point (the famous

 

WE'LL HELP YOU EARN
$50,000 FOR COLLEGE.

Now the Army can help you earn more than
ever before for college, if you qualify...up to
$50,000 with the Montgomery GI Bill plus the

And we’ll help you in other ways, too. You’ll
develop the self-conﬁdence and discipline so impor-
tant to success in college and in a career.

This could be the perfect opportunity to earn
the money you need for college and develop the
qualities that will help you succeed once you get
there. For more information, call your local Army

540-886—2651_

ARMY
BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

E

l:.o«r.’r.r:-.a-r:

Live weeknights - 9:00 p.m. est 0

Play against your friends across the country.

Top 15 players place in the money!

Most

“Southem Cross”). The toilet ﬂushes
the wrong way, even though we know
it’s not really the wrong way, just a
different way. They’re not “tired,”
they’re “stuffed.”

It’s amazing to think that while our
school is 250 years old, their country
is not yet this old. Even though there
are so many differences between the

PAGE 3

two places, they are both wonderfully
the same. I recommend that you go
and see for yourself, if you ever have
the opportunity.

Have a great spring term, mates, and
don’t forget to enjoy yourself- maybe
even “throw a few snags on the
barbie.” Or you could just grill some
hotdogs. No worries!

OC=%

Buenos Aires Lima Santiago London Dublin Paris Nice Copenhagen Stockholm Oslo Amsterdam Berlin Munich Zurich lstanbul

LOW
STUDENT
AIRFARES

Europe 0 Africa 0 Asia - South America
More Than 100 Departure Cities!
Eurailpasses - Bus Passes 0 Study Abroad

student

IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT.

www.StudentUniverse.com

800-272-9676

universe
‘COM

5U0){ 5UOH l|.l|9Q 5JflqS6UUBl.lOf‘ Al/\V]9_]_ E’UO|9OJB8 plJp9W uoqsn MOOSOW MBSJBM 9ll5EJd lsadapng BUUGM QOUSJOH 90lU9/\ SW03

3.
,-r

&L $l’ucl2hl’S  

usealcolol

Based on Wat eon: survell
tlata Irom 1998,1999

Funded IN a grant lrom

mac

Virginia Ilenartment of
Alcoholic Beverage control

 

APRIL 24, 2000

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

SPORTS  

PAGE 4

Men’s lacrosse wins secn straiht championship ’

Generals claim
sixth conference
title in ten years

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s la- ’

crosse team is headed back to the big
dance.

The Generals clinched their second
straight ODAC title and an automatic
bid into the NCAA tournament with
an impressive 16-2 victory over
Hampden-Sydney on Saturday after-
noon at Wilson Field.

The ﬁﬂh-ranked Generals (12-1, 5-
0 ODAC) led 6-1 at the half and
outscored the Tigers 10-1 in the sec-
ond half to cruise to their ninth straight
victory. Junior attackman Matt Dugan
tallied four goals and two assists to
lead the Generals in what was offen-
sively and defensively a dominating
performance.

“ If our offense and defense to-
gether play the way they’re capable
of playing, it’s going to be a long day
for the other team,” W&L head coach
Jim Stagnitta said. “Today is the first
day in a while that we put the offense
and defense on the same page.”

Along with Dugan, several other
W&L players had outstanding games.
Junior midﬁelders Bernie Norton and
Pope Hackney both had four points.
Norton had three goals and one assist
while Hackney tallied two goals and
two assists. Senior attackmen Chris
Brown and Colin Dougherty each had
three points. Brown had two goals
and one assist and Dougherty had one
goal and two assists.

The blow-out of the Tigers (8-6, 3-

3 ODAC) came ﬁve days after the Gen-
erals survived a scare from Whittier
College on Monday aﬁemoon in game
that was moved from Wilson Field to
the University of Virginia’ 5 artiﬁcial turf
ﬁeld because of rain. The Generals
won 7-4, but the game was tied 4-4 with
just 9:45 left in the fourth quarter.“We
were ready to play Monday against
Whittier,” Stagnitta said. “We domi-
nated 50 of the 60 minutes but we al-
lowed them to stay them in the game
by not shooting well.”

The Generals did anything but
shoot poorly against the Tigers on
Saturday. Brown, Dugan and Hack-
ney all scored goals on amazing shots
that Hampden—Sydney goalie Scott
Fava could only watch go by.

Defensively, the Generals have al-
lowed just nine goals in their last three
games. Along with solid play from the
long-stick defensemen, W&L goalie
Wes Hays has been phenomenal as of
late. In the two games this week, Hays
let in just six goals and had a save per-
centage of .800. “

Right now he’s doing the things
mechanically that he needs to do to
be a good goalie on top of seeing the
ball well,” Stagnitta said. “He’s a great
athlete, and there aren’t many goalies
who are good athletes.”

With the ODAC wrapped up and
along with it a ticket the NCAA touma-
ment, the Generals still have two regu-
lar-season games remaining. W&L
hosts VMI in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse
Classic next Saturday before traveling
to Randolph-Macon on May 3"‘.

After defeating the Tigers for the
ODAC championship last year, the
Generals just went through thermo-
tions in their ﬁnal two games of the
regular season and were eventually
upset by Dennison in the ﬁrst round

)1

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Photo Editor

BRINGIN’ IT HOME: W&L midﬁelder Bernie Norton gets ready to rifle a shot against Hampden—Sydney. The ﬁfth-ranked Generals
destroyed the Tigers 16-2 to clinch their second straight ODAC title and an automatic bid into the NCAA tournament.

of the NCAA tournament. This year,
Stagnitta has taken a different ap-
proach to the latter half of the season.

“The history of W&L teams has
been to play well early and peak too
early in the season,” Stagnitta said.
“This year our goal is to get better as

Baseball heads to ODACs

the year goes on - and we’re doing that.
We’ve cut down on practice time, and
we’ve done a lot of things to make sure
we’re fresher at this time of the year.”
The Generals will need strong per-
fonnances in their ﬁnal two games to

’ grab one of the top four seeds in what

is now a l6—team NCAA tournament.
Keeping that‘in mind along with last
year’s playoff loss, Stagnitta thinks the
team will have no problem getting
motivated in the ﬁnal two games of
the regular season.

“ Knowing what happened to us in

the playoffs last year alone should be
enough to keep the kids focused,”
Stagnitta said. “We haven’t stepped
on the ﬁeld one day this year when the
kids weren’t excited to be out there. Our
leaders are too good for us to come out
ﬂat.”

 

Double-header sweep of‘
Lynchburg caps playoff run
. . By Mike Weil

STA FF WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball team earned the ﬁ-

S’ nal berth in the ODAC tournament aﬁer sweeping a double-

header from Lynchburg College Saturday afternoon.

Freshman Michael Hanson was the star of game one,
pitching a complete game shutout en route to a 5-0 Gen-
erals victory. »

W&L opened the scoring with two outs in the top of
the fourth, when the Lynchburg second baseman lost a
routine pop ﬂy in the sun. The Generals capitalized on
the mishap by scoring two in the frame. The Generals
would add three more insurance runs in the ﬁnal two
innings to preserve the victory.

Oﬁensively the Generals were led by freshman leﬁﬁelder
Bobby Littlehale and sophomore third baseman Matt
Kozora, each tallying three hits. Hanson struck out ﬁve
without walking a batter in earning the win. ,

Game two brought another excellent pitching perfor-

mance for the Generals, as junior David Sigler tossed an-
other complete game, helping the Generals to a 3-2 victory.

The Hornets scored a run in the bottom of the ﬁrst
inning and kept the lead until the sixth when the Generals
made their move. W&L started their rally with a single by
senior ﬁrst baseman Russell Wrenn. Senior rightﬁelder
Schuyler Marshall then blasted a triple to score pinch run-
ner Jason May, tying the game at one. Senior shortstop
David Hanson then notched an RBI single to give the Gen-
erals a 2-1 lead which they would not relinquish.

Littlehale belted his ﬁrst home run of the season to give
the Generals a 3-1 lead in the top of the seventh, before
Sigler ended a Lynchburg rally to close out the game.

The fourth-seeded Generals (20- l 3, 9-7 ODAC) will take
on ﬁrst—seeded Virginia Wesleyan on Friday at Lynchburg City
Stadium at4 p.m. The team’s 9-7 conference record is extremely
impressive considering its slow 0-4 start in the ODAC.

“As coach [Stickley] said, i doesn’t matter how you
start out, it just matters how your playing down the stretch,”
said Hanson.

‘‘I think we have a good shot against Virginia
Wesleyan. Our pitchers will be rested, and we showed
them we could beat them last week. Teams are afraid of
us now that we’re so hot.”

Schmidt Wins
ODAC javelin

By Brendan Harrington

‘ SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee sophomore Sarah Schmidt
claimed her second straight ODAC javelin champi-
onship with a conference-record toss on Saturday
afternoon at the ODAC Track and Field Champion-
ships in Harrisonburg.

Schmidt’s record throw of 1 16 feet, two inches
was 13 feet longer than any of her competitors.
Schmidt also claimed third place in the discus with a
personal-best throw of 99 feet, eight inches.

On the men’s side, W&Ljunior Marc Watson led
the way with a third-place ﬁnish in the 100-meter dash
and sophomore Mike Hegg took third-place in the
I 10-meter high hurdles.

In team scoring, the W&L men ﬁnished ﬁfth of
ﬁve teams and the W&L women ﬁnished fourth of
ﬁve teams. '

Under New
Management!

égﬁvlzﬂ

PIZZA, SUBS, PASTA, CALZONES,
SALADS, BEER 0N PREMISES

1213 N. Lee Hwy Next to Wal-Mart '

463-3399

\\\\1 MS)

547' IIV OR 

MK! 01/7'

     
     

a \ /

 

3 bedroom, 2 bath

washer/dryer

covered patio area

huge bonus room in basement
new kitchen cabinets this summer

FOR RENT

431 West Nelson Street

off street parking
2 minute walk from sorority houses

Contact Cindy at Baker Real Estate
463-7319

 

X.
The W&L Student Activities Board Presents;
ll
0 S’ \
Comedian

KE V IN NEALON *
(formerly of Saturday Night Live) ,

I

Thursday, April 27
9pm at Warner Center ,
$10 at the door
$8 in advance ‘
Tickets will be sold outside the Co-op

Tuesday-Thursday, 11am-2pm It

Iv

jt

http://www.capitolint.corn/kevin.htrn

 

