  

 

5?)

l
4

1‘ VOLUME 103, N0. 5

 

ICaroline Cobbl

p A look back 0

(J11:
lﬁlti

Monday,
May 22, 2000

Seniors: The

ﬁnal farewell
see page 4

Sports Notes:
Coach Dadio
Campbell

resigns
see page 3

Abortion:
The great
non-issue?
see page 2

Letter to the
Editor: In
Defense of

Spring Term

see page 2

Artistic ge-
nius: ‘Josh
Harvey and

see page 3

on this year
see page 2

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Students demonstate for women’s rights

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

FIGHT FOR YoUR RIGHTS. Darlene Mitrano, Jennifer Agiesta, Lisa Chew, Nicole
Gilkeson, Melissa Sills, and Nancy Reinhart participate in Friday’s Women’s
Rights demonstration in front of the Courthouse.

Oh, the places

they’ll

go!

Graduating seniors share some of
their plans for the future

By Mary Woodard

STAFF WRITER

Work. It’s something W&L
students have been taught to do
for years. Sometimes they do it
stubbornly, but other times
work is enjoyed enough to be
done willingly.

As this year’s graduating se-
niors venture away from the
conﬁnes of Washington and
Lee, they are essentially enter-
ing into a new chapter of their
lives. Though some might title
this chapter, “Entering the Real
World,” it’ s important to realize
that the story will not be the
same for everyone. The ques-
tion “What do you want to do
when you grow up?”will be an-
swered in some interesting ways
for the soon-to-be-graduates.

Kelley Gilbert, from
Peachtree, Georgia, has always
been fascinated by the super-
natural. An X-Files guru, she
has wanted to become a FBI
agent for some time. Next year,
though she will not be entering
“the Bureau,” she will be getting
ataste of mystery in her job. Work-
ing at Cellrnark Diagnostics in
Germantown, Maryland, she will
act as a Forensic Client Service
Representative, taking calls from
the clientele, 80 percent of whom
are police officers and lawyers.

She will educate the clients
about DNA testing, and let the
caller know exactly what kind of
information they can expect to

-get from their specimen. If the

client decides to use Cellmark,
Gilbert will act as the middle-
man between the scientists
and the client for the duration
of the case.

The company has been in-
volved in several high-proﬁle
cases, including O.J. Simpson,
the Unabomber, and Jon Benet
Ramsey. Gilbert sees this job as
a great way of combining her
knowledge of science and her
fascination with the mysterious.
In the future, she hopes to earn

a combined Masters degree in
law and forensic science.

There are also those who are
less sure which direction to fol-
low when it comes to finding a
job. In elementary and middle
school, Kelly Scott considered
careers in archaeology and ar-
chitecture. It was not until high
school that she became inter-
ested in politics and really
knew that she wanted to live
in Washington, D.C. Next year,
Scott will be working for the
Thomas B. Fordham Founda-
tion in D.C., an education re-
form think tank. She will serve
as the executive assistant to
the President of the Founda-
tion, Checker Finn.

“Finn is the foremost speaker
on education reform and worked
with Bill Bennett in the educa-
tion department under Reagan,”
Scott said.

Scott’s responsibilities will
include arranging travel plans,
setting up interviews, handling
media calls, and other adminis-
trative support roles.

“They wanted someone
young and enthusiastic enough
to groom to become a leader in
education reform,” Scott said
when asked how she landed the
job.

“The effects of the educa-
tion system pervade all of so-
ciety. The lessons children
learn in school will effect their
lives and their behavior.
Therefore, everyone has an in-
terest in making sure the
schools are the best they can
possibly be,” she said.

Scott eventually wants to be-
come a legislative assistant in
Congress, but for now, she’s
happy with this current oppor-
tunity. She is also excited about
her new apartment in Arlington,
with a view of the Washington
Monument and the Capitol.
Scott is ready to enter the work
force on June 5th.

“I think I am ﬁnally prepared
for life after college,” Scott said.

Women’s groups protest
Supreme Court ruling
By Emily Bames

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Representatives of Women’s Forum held their
picketing signs high in front of the Rockbridge
County Courthouse Friday to demonstrate against
the Monday Supreme Court decision that weak-
ened the Violence Against Women Act.

In a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court repealed
the Civil Rights Remedy Clause of the VAWA. The
decision was the result of a recent case in which a
Virginia Tech student ﬁled suit against two football
players she claimed raped her. She filed under the
remedy clause, which, according to an article in the
May 15 issue of The New York Times, was formed
by Congress “to provide an alternative avenue of
redress for victims of rape and other crimes ‘moti-
vated by gender.”’ Both her suit and the remedy

clause were determined to be unconstitutional, with »

the ruling that gender-related violence is not an in-
terstate-commerce issue and should not be handled
by the federal courts.

“This ruling is either saying that gender-based
crimes are not a matter of civil rights, as opposed to
race-based crimes, or it’s saying that the federal gov-
ernment doesn’t have the right to protect civil
rights,” Women’s Forum chair Melissa Sills said.
“Either way, it’ s a problem.” ‘

Sills said the repeal presents a step backward
in gaining both the federal govemment’s involve-
ment with the issue of rape, and the treatment of
rape as what she called a “crime of oppression.”

“The purpose of our rally was to address both
the Supreme Court decision and the issue of vio-
lence against women in general,” she said. “In this
country, every six minutes a woman is raped, every

18 seconds a woman is beaten. These are not just
crimes, they are assaults on women as a gender.”

Sills, along with several members of Women’s

 

252000

 U112 lting-tum Iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UN1vERsmI’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

MONDAY, MAY 22, 2000

Forum, Project Horizon, and Rockbridge Valley Na-
tional Organization for Women participated in the
demonstration. Representatives of each organiza-
tion made short speeches, held amoment of silence
for rape and domestic violence victims, and ended
with a march from Main Street to the Colonnade.

“The whole [Supreme Court] decision just made
me very mad, and I wouldn’t have missed the dem-
onstration for the world,” Women’ s Forum mem-
ber Jennifer Agiesta said.

Professor of art history Pamela Simpson, presi-
dent of the Rockbridge Valley chapter of NOW,
said that she was pleased with the involvement
and enthusiasm of Women’s Forum members. i

“The students are the heart and soul of so
many things,” Simpson said. “You not only have
a group like Women’s Forum, which is concerned
with women's rights and issues . . . a lot of those
people are also volunteers for Project Horizon, so
they know firsthand what it is to be on the hotline
and to be talking to people who are victims of
sexual assault and domestic violence. That’s why
we were all out there, we feel very strongly about
those issues about violence against women.”

Simpson said she was glad to hear from faculty
members, who expressed interest in attending but
could not be at the demonstration because of classes.

Sills said that she would like to see more reac-
tion from the student body when it comes to is-
sues that go beyond the campus.

“I think there’s a lot of . . . fear and guilt sur-
rounding the issue of rape which keeps people
from taking any sort of stance on it,” Sills said.
“While I think the lack of involvement on our carn-
pus is understandable, it is not excusable.”

Simpson said that she encourages the work of
student groups to encourage students to speak
out on issues confronting college-aged adults.

“I know that silence does not help,” Simpson
said. “You need to speak out. If a climate is going
to change about attitudes toward violence, then
it’s got to be a public attitude.”

THE TEAM THAT PLAYED THEIR HEARTS OUT... W&L men’s lacrosse team (16-2) lost 10-9 in their semi-ﬁnal game
against defending national champion Salisbury State on Sunday in Maryland. After a back and forth game,
holding the Sea Gulls at a 5-5 tie at half time, a goal in the last few minutes of the game forced W&L on the
offensive. Junior Matt Dugan broke the school record for points earned in a single season. This is the
fourth lacrosse team in W&L history to make it as far as the semi-ﬁnals.

 

File photo/The Ring-Tribi

Another educator, Warren
Hedges from Knoxville, Mary-
land, hopes to be working forthe
Peace Corps in Western Russia
as an English teacher.

Hedges’s interest in Russia
stems from a week-long trip his
history class made to the coun-
try during his senior year of high
school. He said that his decision
to join the Peace Corps only
came about two months ago.

Hedges looks forward to this
experience for a few different rea-
sons. He expects this to be a cul-
tural learning experience and
hopes to gain a better under-
standing of the language. He
also sees the Peace Corps ex-
perience as a great adventure:
being forced to explore a for-
eign place on your own and
survive.

Ultimately, Hedges chose to
apply to the Peace Corps be-
cause he wanted to help other
people. He values this as an op-
portunity for him to contribute
to the education system in Rus-

sia. Hedges is also interested in
law and hopes to ﬁnd a job that
be thoroughly enjoys, leaving
him time to have a family life as
well.

KD Vo from Seattle, Washing-
ton will be in a similar situation,
participating in the JET program
teaching English in Japan.
Though V0 is a pre-med student,
teaching English while living
abroad will give him an oppor-
tunity to do something different
for a short time.

‘‘I didn’t feel like going and
studying for anotherV4 years and
med school will still be there
when I get back,” Vo said. “This . if
isn’t something I’m plarming on
doing in the long term. Plus, I
still need to decide if med school
is what I really want to do.”

Like his fellow seniors, Vo
feels W&L prepared him to en-
ter the “real world,” but that
doesn’t necessarily mean he
wants to be a part of it yet.

“I want to enjoy my youth
while I still have it,” he said.

photo by Emily Banres/Executive Editor

SENIOR NIGHT 2000. Members of the senior class pose
outside of Lee Chapel after Senior Night Wednesday,
uniting as a class one of many times before graduation.

 

PAGE 2

@112 ititng-tum iﬂlri

PIN ION

MAY 22, 2000 ,.

 

.you want, but
_ please don’t try

your moral sys-
_tem by arguing

Abortion: The
great non-issue

Last Monday, I noticed a debate would be held on the
issue of abortion. Actually, how could I not notice? I had
only been pelted with the issue by various people for the
entire week prior to the debate. After my initial reaction of
shock at being verbally attacked during dinner one night for
asking casually why someone was pro-life, annoyance set
in. What a ridiculous debate.

First of all, abortion does not make for a particularly good
dinner conversation. Secondly, give it up already. Debates

which don’t allow for a clearly neutral position are just silly. .

The only way I can express my apathy is by declaring
myself pro-choice. That’s not exactly a comfortable non-
stance. Pro-choice, pro-life. . . just eat your dinner and talk
about the meaning of life or something else more digestively
agreeable.

Believe what

 

Radically Neutral
Monica Schoenthaler ‘O2

to force me into

 

for laws which take away yet another freedom. I’ve heard the
religious argument... but let’s not fool ourselves, not every-

' one in America follows a religion which tells people “abor-

tion is EVIL! !” I personally thought that America was origi-
nally settled as neutral ground on which to express religious
freedom anyway. Maybe I’m wrong about that, my historical
fact memorization skills aren’t that great.

Also, if a woman decides to have an abortion because of
the fmancial responsibilities having children entails, or be-

. cause she doesn’t feel she is ready for parenthood emotion-
< ally or psychologically, maybe people should listen. The child
_ will probably just grow up with psychological trauma m-

ﬂicted by parents who are disgruntled at his very existence.

: Or say he is given up for adoption, even if he grows up in a

happy family, one day he will ﬁnd out. Then the child may
wonder, as many adopted children do, why his biological

A mother decided he wasn’t worth keeping. I personally can’t

imagine being too ecstatic at that thought.
Going over a few other pros and cons of the issue:
Pro—Choice:
Pros: Personal freedom, whether for abortion or against.
Cons: More of a chance of getting gunned down, blown

. up, or otherwise harmed for personal beliefs. Maybe it’s just

me, but I’ve never heard of anyone getting hurt, maimed, or

. murdered at a pro-life clinic or the equivalent...

Pro-Life: ' .
Pros: That self-righteous feeling you get from telling other

C people they’re wrong.

Cons: That self-righteous feeling you get from telling other
people they’re wrong.

Okay, so I only had one for each, but hey, that’s all the
thinking I felt like doing. It would be much easier if people
would just recognize this for the huge non-issue it is. Re-
gardless, you won’t be seeing me at an abortion clinic any-
time soon, either in protest or in need of the service. Those
places are just too dangerous.

uote of the Week:

(I

His idea of commitment is
taking me to Subway once
in a while.

-Anonymous junior girl

}}
Ellie ﬁtting-tum ilﬂlri

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

Neal Willetts

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo Editor
Layout Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial‘Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and_ Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

photo by Tiffany Fn'edeVPhoto Editor

I’M coma T0 MISS THIS COUCH. Junior John Herbert enjoys a short afternoon nap before the festivites resumed at Zollman’s this past weekend.

A reminder of the past year, in case you forgot,

There is no such thing as the sophomore slump. It is a
rumor, created by sophomores who felt left out of the loop
during peak social hours, not knowing the who, what, when,
and where of the evenings activities. Please let me assure all
rising sophomores that this is not the case. Sophomore year
is practically freshman orientation week for thirty weeks
straight. It’s your second year of college, your second year
of trying to decide what to do with your life, your second
chance to bring up your GPA, and your fust chance to take a
class with a pre-requisite of “sophomore standing.” I, of
course, did not accomplish much as far as planning my fu-
ture is concerned. I’m actually much
more confused. As I look back on my
sophomore year I realize in the great
quest of “ﬁnding myself,” and maybe a
clue to my future, I just lost myself in a
pit of memories from great events past.

The Mock Convention added a welcome twist to the usual
tailgates, Parent’s Weekend and Homecoming fall line-up.
Not that the usual social functions aren’t exciting, but there’s
something about an_ event that happens only once every
four years. People tend to put more effort into a party that
occurs less often. Mock Con was a great experience, both
inside and outside the convention hall. There should be a
parade for Homecoming, too. (What a fantastic way to make
a mess of the Pavilion, Main Street, the Ruins, spread school
spirit, and have fim all at the same time.)

My first look at the other side of rush was quite an expe-
rience. There are a lot of things they don’t tell you when
you’re a rushee, such as, “You will be spending all year pre-

LETTER TO

Dear Editor,

Unfortunately, I (along with the rest of the student
body) was subjected to the ramblings of Professor Ed-
ward Adams in the most recent Phi, in which he ranted
against our hallowed spring term, and appropriated poor
«Thomas Carlyle’s invections against lying to do so.

Let me direct him towards another of Mr. Carlyle’s quo-
tations, which states that “with stupidity and sound di-
gestion man may front much.” Professor Adams’ gastric
capabilities must be remarkable. He believes that students
should not receive full credit for courses taken during spring
term, and that we should willingly sacriﬁce it in order to
gain “four solid weeks of real academic time.” I am certain
that, should the professor agree to teach at a reduced sal-
ary for spring term, we will in turn abandon our course
hours.

Or, barring these extreme solutions, allow me to sug-
gest that Associate Professor Adams needs to take upon
himself the responsibility of teaching a couple of extra
courses so as to provide more choices in the curriculum
for next spring.

A course on the British War Poets, for example, or a

 

Rainbow Brite

. Tiffany Friedel ’O2

 

paring for one week of rush. It will take up all of your time, so
get used to it now.” Don’t say you weren’t warned.

Now I find myself thinking about this past weekend’s
events at Buffalo Creek in awe. Sunday morning in the
Dining Hall I could not help but laugh at some people I’d
seen Saturday night and remind them of what they did
that evening just in case they forgot. That’s the best part"
about sober driving. The worst part is the drive out there.
It’s long, the roads are dark and winding, and I ended -up
doing it way too often. Five people danced to the bands,
while dozens swam in germ-infested water. Dogs ran wild
without supervision or. restriction,
as did their masters.

I understand that Buffalo Creek
is a two day event, but is it really
necessary to restrain from any form
of personal hygiene for that time?
The lack of running water (clean water, the creek not included)
and bathrooms in general makes the whole event that much
more repulsive to any person paying attention, sober or oth-
erwise.

The parking situation is a mess there, too. The only place
on Earth worse to park in is Historic Lexington. I know not
everyone wants to park in a circle out on the field, but is it
really necessary for cars to be triple-parked, blocking ev-
ery entrance and exit, and making it impossible for anyone
to get through? It did look kind of cool with the hundreds
of SUVs lined up on the field, and I was proud to have my
Jeep there on the end. I just felt sorry for the itty bitty cars
that would probably get stuck in the mud after the rain.

THE EDITOR

seminar on Walker Percy would be greatly appreciated,
and would allow for students to fulfill their English re-
quirements more quickly in their academic careers instead
of having to wait until they attain Junior or Senior status
and jump ahead in the registration order (the English De-
partment is particularly deficient in this regard). Seeing as
how, according to the registration sheet for this past se-
mester, the good professor has only been teaching one
course, this should present no problem.

Perhaps he resents this intrusion on his duty as a
professor. Similarly, I resent that he sees it as his within
his realm of responsibility to advise the student body
that we should sacrifice our breaks so as to alter the
academic year to more closely resemble those of
Amherst and Yale.

I did not choose to attend Amherst or Yale. Instead, I
decided that Washington and Lee, with all its quirks and
foibles, was a superior educational choice; and in fact, the
very institutions which Professor Adams so strenuously
objects to (i.e., winter rush, Mock Con, and Fancy Dress)
all contributed significantly to the atmosphere which en-
chanted me (and others) so much as a prospective.

One such car was double parked behind an SUV, prevent-
ing it from passing. The driver was very considerate, though,
because instead of four-wheel driving over the car, he and a
couple of his friends picked it up and moved it aside instead.

All complaints aside‘, I did enjoy my weekend. This was
the second to last weekend of my first half of college. It’s
very sad.

I have mixed feelings about the surruner. I can’t decide

whether it’s great to have an extended vacation time for ex- I

tracurricular work and play, or if it’s just a great big waste of
time. What is really accomplished over the surrirner anyway?
For those of us with sununer jobs and internships, we get a
look at the real world, the working world, and possibly a foot
in the door of our future careers. Then there’s the part of us
who still believe we are in junior high, sitting at the beach
and letting our minds waste away, losing all information pre-
viously acquired during the school year. I’d rather just get
on with school, finish in three years, and then start my life.
Wait, what am I saying? Please disregard that last sen-
tence. I don’t think I would give up a fourth Homecoming,
Parent’s Weekend, Christmas weekend, Fancy Dress Ball, or

A

A

A

year with my friends at this great institution for anything. I *

might give up rush week, though. . .

There’s no advice I have to give freshmen towards sopho-
more year. Maybe that’s because I haven’t heard any. Just
make the most of it, have a ball - you only get to be a sopho-
more once. Tliat’s what people said about my ﬁeshman year,
and I choose to carry that piece of advice with me through-
out my college career.

Exile of these events to the breaks would, at the least,
greatly decrease their attendance, and would almost cer-
tainly lead to their eventual demise. Should this occur, our

college environment would suffer a great loss in its unique ,

character, and would be that much the poorer.

Insofar as he objectsto W&L’s “work hard, play
hard” manner, no one insisted that he teach at this in-
stitution. He could teach at a “work hard. . . keep work-
ing” institution (Amherst, Yale) and leave us to our
own devices.

I am offended at the suggestion that we, as a stu-

dent body, indulge in “six weeks of lying self-decep- I

tion.” The very idea proposed by that letter was such
an overwhelming example of Ivy-League pretension and
Ivory Tower posturing (God forbid the administration
“aid and abet the students in their vain desire to “work
hard and play hard” or provide “institutional sanction-
ing of big ticket distractions from the academic work” )
that I was almost nauseated by reading it. I lack Profes-
sor Adams’ digestive strength.

Sincerely,

Brett Burns ‘03

.  What have you learned from the seniors?

 

“If you’re ever stranded in
Bolivia, hail a banana truck.”
-Claire Green ‘03

“There’s no solid reason NOT
to drink on Sunday.”

-Josh Patten ‘03 -Jeﬁ°Meriggi ‘03'

“Senior boys steal freshman girls
because they’re perverts.”

“S-C-A-N-D-A-L-0-U-S.”
-Sarah Sager ‘03

 

,1»

 

PAGE 3

W&

@112 iatng-tum lﬂhi

IFE

MAY 22, 2000

Two seniors show artistic side

Seniors Josh Harvey and Caroline Cobb display their talents

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

The great Victorian writer Oscar
Wilde once wrote, “all art is quite use-
less.” Senior Caroline Cobb disagrees.

“Art is a therapeutic thing for me,
something that visually represents
what I’m thinking about,” Cobb said.

Cobb, a senior studio art/art history/
journalism major, exhibited her paint-
ings in duPont auditorium Thursday for
her studio art senior thesis. Her works.
include several still-life oils on canvas,
as well as more abstract works using
oil on paper. She has been painting with
oils since her freshman year and said
her primary inﬂuence is Morandi, who
also painted many still-lifes.

She had plarmed to be an art history
major, but a studio art class freshman year
convinced her to continue painting.

“I had a really positive experience
[in that c1ass],”she said.

Cobb studied at the Slade School of
Fine Arts in London last year, where
she studied expressionist techniques
and color theory. Many of the paint-
ings on display in duPont were painted

   
   

in London.

Cobb said that she has no definite
plans for life after graduation, but will
try to stay involved in the art world
as a teacher or critic. Regardless of
her career path, Cobb plans to con-
tinue to paint for pleasure.

“Arthas always been part of my
life, and always will be,” she said.

* III II:

For most students, music is the
background noise for college life. For
senior Josh Harvey, it’s much more
than that.

“l’ve always taken music seriously
while having fun with it at the same
time,” Harvey said.

Harvey, a senior music composi-
tion major, gave his musical thesis
presentation Tuesday. He has been
active in music for most of his life,
starting with the tuba in ﬁfth grade,
and the piano in sixth. His father is a
local pastor, who got Harvey his first
job playing the piano. Harvey now
plays the piano for many churches.

“[Playing for other churches] is
mostly business, but I still enjoy it,”
he said.

Harvey began composing seri-
ously during his freshman year at
W&L. He has written for several
groups, including his current band,
Ring’s End, with ﬁeshman Chris Tully,

Chris Edwards ’99, and UVA student '

Rob Hubbard. The band is currently
recording a CD entitled “Vertigo” to
be released this summer.

Harvey has composed classical

pieces for ﬂute, piano and Vibraphone, 1

and piano and voice. He acknowl-
edges the differences between writ-
ing rock and classical music, but he
has no trouble making the transition.

“Composing rock songs and com-
posing classical isn’t as different as
you might think,” he said. “Aﬁer all, a
scale has only 13 possible notes.”

Musicians who have worked with
him praise his talent, personality and
style. Music Professor Terry Vosbein,
who Harvey credits with teaching him
to compose, is one such admirer.

“Josh has been a joy to have
around for four years. . . and a good
inspiration to other students around
him in his talent, hard work, and posi-
tive outlook,” said Vosbein,

photo y Emﬂy Barires/Executiveﬂlirditdr

AT THE ARTIST’S EXHIBIT. Caroline Cobb stands beside one of her many paintings on display
in duPont Gallery. Her exhibit will be on display through graduation.

Mosl W&L sluclenls

use AlcoLol

   

naseuon Walcllﬂisurvell
  tlatairom1998,1999

. F

Fllllllﬂll Ill! 8 grant lI'0lll

Virginia nellartment of
Alcoholic Beverage control

~ v‘.  ;,. ,,/y_’,,: 

ms «name: waster. ears-1.91:5 arr.  

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

WE’ LL ERASE YOUR
COLLEGE LOAN.

If you’re stuck with a (federally insured)
student loan that’s not in default, the
Army might pay it off.

If you qualify, We'll reduce your
debt—up to $65,000. Payment is
either 1/3 of the debt or $1,500
for each year of service,
whichever is greater.

You'll also have training
in a choice of skills and
enough self-assurance

to last you the rest of
your life.

Get all the details
from your Army
Recruiter.

540-886-2651

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

photo counesy Jennie Parker
PIANO MAN. Josh Harvey displayed his musical talents during

his thesis performance Tuesday night.

   

Women’s Tennis
falls in NCAA

Semiﬁnals

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team saw its run in the NCAA
Tournament come to an end with a 6-3
loss to Trinity (Texas) in the semifmal
round.

~Courtesy Sports Information

W&L’s Dadio-

Campbell resigns

Lexington, Va. -- Washington and
lee Athletic Director Mike Walsh has
annouced that Terri Dadio Campbell,
the University’s women’s basketball
and volleyball coach for the past seven
years has resigned effective July 1.

Dadio Campbell’s husband, Shawn,
has recently been named the Associ-
ate head Coach at Temple University
following a higly successful stint as an
assistant coach a the University of Vir-
ginia. She will follow him to Philadel-
phia and begin to pursue coaching op-
portunities in the area. '

“After seven years at Washington
& lee, this was a very difficult decision,”
said Dadio Campbell. “However, Shawn
and I look forward to the upcoming
challenges and growth opportunities
as we relocate to the Philadelphia area.”

3 Dadio Campbell took over W&L’s
women’s basketball program in its fnst
varsity season and molded it into a regu-
lar in the old Dominion Athletic
Conferance Tournament. The Gener-
als finished last season with a 13- 12
overall record, 10-10 in the ODAC.

She also helped to transform the
volleyball program into a consistent
winner, posting a 159-48 (.768) record
and claiming for ODAC Champion-
ships, including the last three. She has
been named the ODAC Coach of the
Year three times and guided the Gener-
als to their ﬁrst ever NCAA tournament
berth this past season.

“ It has been a pleasure working with
both the women’s basketball and vol-
leyball programs,” commented Dadio
Campbell.

~Courte.sjy of Sports Information

Dougherty named D-
III Lax National
Player of the Week

Lexington, Va. -- W&L senior
attackman Colin Dougherty (Timonium,
Md./Loyola) has been named the Divi-
sion III National Lacrosse Player of the
Week by Inside Lacrosse Magazine.
This is the seond time he has received
the honor this year.

Dougherty led the Generals to a 2-
0 week and a trip to the NCAA Divi-
sion II Tournament Semiﬁnals by
amassing 15 points in wins over
Kenyon and Gettysburg.

In a 22-4 opening round win over
the Lords, Dougherty tallied six goals
and three assists and followed that
with a two-goal, four assist perfor-

, mance in a 12-10 win over Gettysburg.

On the season, Dougherty claims
27 goals and 33 assists for a career-
high 60 points. He is just 14 points
from breaking the W&L career scor-
ing record.

Dougherty was Second Team All-
ODAC selection this season.

-Courtesy of Sports Information

Don’t worry
loyal
readers!

I

The Ring-tum
Phi will be back
next year!

 

 

PAGE 4

TALK
BACK:

What is your best
memory of the
past four years?

“The one time I went binge

drinking on keg beer with

undergraduate coeds. ”
—- Scott LeTourneau

“I’ve enjoyed each and
every moment of my time
here at William and
Mary. ”

—— Russell Wrenn

 

“Pppfffffttzrt ”
— Childs Cantey



“Oh, it was such a hoot...I
streaked the Colonnade
— naked!”

—— Chris Stakem

 

“Our post-Bid Day
celebration in the BDG
quad during the ice storm
of ’97”

— Nancy Dixon and

Alison Ralston

“Friends, friends,
friends. ”
—— Eszter Pados

 
 

 

 

SEN1

Ellie iﬂing-tum lﬂlii

ORS

2000

Our last hurrah...

Fomer Phi editors bid farewell

I can tell you without a doubt that
I’m the wrong person to be writing
this. Any of my friends can tell you
that l’ve kept a running count of how
many weeks, days and hours were left
until graduation since about halfway
through sophomore year. If you ever
had a question about it, you just had
to ask me.

the take-the-easy-way-out aspects of
human nature. We’ve all suffered and
sacriﬁced to get to the point that we
now stand on the verge of.

lt’s not all been those sparkling
white columns that the admissions
brochures ﬂaunted. _

Yet there have been shining mo-
ments of academic inspiration, pure

It’sgettingtobeaprettysmallnurn- ‘honor-given pride, and gut-deep
ber. laughter; simple
And while human connec-
that doesn’t bode I 3111  tions that clicked
well for a fond - , almost audibly.
stroll down Polly A D Dolg (X) There were the

memory lane, I’m

not claiming to be representative of
the senior class, and memory lane is
just a cliché anyway.

Nonetheless, I am a member of this
class, and I know that it hasn’t been
easy. We’ve all seen the sun come up
after a dizzying night of writing or
cramming, complained about the less-
than-stellar social scene, had friends
who drove us crazy with that latest
crisis that kept us up into the wee
hours of the morning, run into those
professors so entrenched in the world
of academia that things like reality or
compassion were relegated to abstract
deﬁnitions in dusty books and lived
under an honor code that contradicts

instants of ec-
stasy, happiness and quiet content-
ment that helped achieve some sort of
balance. They are what have enamored
some of this place to such an extent
that they’ 11 be back for every Alumni
Weekend, Homecoming and FD for de-
cades to come. (God save me from be-
ing that alum who just won’t graduate
and leave.) And they’re what have
gotten others through to graduation,
and out on their way to the Real World.
We know this place. We’ve loved
it, we’ve hated it, and we’ve laughed
at it. But more than anything, now we
realize that we’ve lived it.
And now, my friends, we’re leavin’
it.

We came here freshman year not
even grasping what it means to attend
Washington and Lee. This is not just
a school. It is an institution, a culture
and a society unlike any other. It takes
a lot to understand. .

Freshman year, I downright de-
tested the place. The Southern way
was the right way — the only way.
Despite the fact that nearly half our
school
is from
above
the Ma-
s o n -
D ix 0 n ,
the Southern mentality overshadowed
everything. (I realize now that this is
exponentially linked to the fact that the
school is in The South). But this meant
drinking in the mornings in clothes
suitable for church, huntin’ (or at least
wearing all clothes associated with it),
and enduring a social scene more cut-
ting than strict feudalism.

Absolutely no one would participate
in class. Professors almost cried before
a comment would be made. People made
Dean’s List, but didn’t have a clue there
was a war in Kosovo. People were Re-
publicans because their parents were.

I saw hypocrisy everywhere. Some
“religious” students I knew sexed and

drank more than they churched. Rape
was considered ﬁne, while cheating
was not. Fake IDs were illegal. Under-
age drinking was encouraged.

Nothing seemed real.

Little has changed within the insti-
tution over these last four years, but
I’ve grown to love this school for many
of the things I used to hate.

Although our community may be

strange and shallow at
times, we are close. We

Not  K3-U33-5 no mo’ have become part of the
Holhster H. Hovey ’00

legacy of this school. It
has become part of us.
W&L may seem like a
country club, but at this point in my
life, I say thank God.

We face the grizzly world of nine-
to-ﬁve (or seven-to-ten if on Wall
Street), and the time when we have the
freedom and pure enjoyment of life
that we have here will probably not
ever happen again.

We are now moving on, quite pos-
sibly to the best years we’ ll ever have,
but they will come with extra respon-
sibility and consequences that we
haven’t yet begun to comprehend.

We have lived in a bubble for the
past four years, yet much of it has been
absolutely wonderful. We will miss this
place. We’ll miss it a lot.

Top stories and personal favorites

Every once in a while, actually
pretty frequently, a story comes along
that strikes us. Sometimes these sto-
ries put us to the test in our experi-
ment in student journalism, and some-
times they send an entire staﬂ rolling
on the floor in laughter before we so-
ber up and write a straight-faced
story. But if you ask a Phister why we
take the never-ending hours and criti-
cism, the answer could well be the
variety that comes our way each and
every week Here are a few of our fa-
vorites:

BYOB policy instated
September, 1997

Simultaneously, the “pretend-you-
know-a-brother” policy begins.
Student hit by car
September, 1997

Elizabeth James ’99 is charged with
a felony count of failure to stop when
she hit Dylan Walsh ’00 with her
Volkswagen Bug. According to arrest-
ing officer Michael Hess, Walsh was
walking east along West Nelson Street
when he was struck on the leﬁ leg and
thrown to the ground by a car travel-
ing in the same direction. The driver
of the car stopped, yelled “sorry” out
the window and drove off.

Faculty salaries revealed
October, I 997

In a nosy move, The Phi published
salaries of faculty members, including
the little tidbit that President Elrod
earned less money than former Law
School dean Barry Sullivan.
Student injured in car accident
Nov. 21, 1997

After breaking her spine in a car
accident on Interstate-8 1 her freshman
year, Jill Kosch ’O0 takes a semester
off. She later makes afullrecovery, physi-
cally and academically, going on to cap-
tain the women’s track team as a senior
and capturing two school records.
Butts banned in campus buildings
Jan. 12, 1998

A policy which is obeyed to the
letter in the Doig-era oﬂices of The Phi
Burst Chi Psi pipe unleashes ﬁlth
January 23, 1998

It wasn’t sewage, they swear.
Sigma Nus shorn
April, 1998

Newly anointed news editor Doig
spent an hour on the phone with dis-
traught Sweet Briar “victims,” who re-
peatedly‘ stated that they did not
shave the nether regions of three Snu
brothers. The female British exchange
student did, however, admit to not

“wearing me knickers.” Oh, dear.
Class of '73 gives largest 25th
reunion gift in history
May, 1998

More than $1 million, when all was
said and done. In a related story, the
Class of 2000 recently reached the
$6,000 mark. This is roughly one-third
of their average indebtedness.
Freshman woman arrested for DIP
May 14, 1998

Hardly news at W&L, save for the
fact that the 18-year-old Christine van
den Toom was screaming obscenities
in the freshman quad, following a
Kappa mixer at the Volcano, whose
carding practices were questioned re-
peatedly by the ABC. She was still
screaming them when W&L Security
and the LPD showed up. She contin-
ued to scream them at various Phi edi-
tors before, during and aﬁer publica-
tion of the related article. That’s prob-
ably her on the phone now. . .
VMI goes coed
August, 1998

Bald cheerleaders, need we say
more? .
Drug Task F orce founded
September, I 998

Dangerous bud-lovers beware!
Now they’re watching Goshen.

Parking garage delayed
September, I 998

The fust time.
Two students charged with car theft
Oct. 12, I998

Sophomores Stephanie Fortener
and Ellen Elliott “borrow” a few cars on
the way home from Lee-Hi, and then
2,000 copies of The Phi with the ensu-
ing story. When confronted by a some-
what emotional executive editor
Hollister Hovey, the girls stated that
they were only “borrowing a few cop-
ies for ﬁ'iends and family.” Charges for
car borrowing are subsequently
dropped, but the girls serve their com-
munity many hours for Phi-borrowing.
Rehnquist speaks ‘at commencement
May, I 999

The Chief Justice sports .a Band-
Aid on his forehead alter a vicious
game of racquetball. He reads a truly
inspiring speech on billable hours. We
sat through the whole damn thing.
Night Owl closes
March, 2000

Longtime community (music)
source Wayne Raynal finally closes
his doors.
“Idaho loses over shirts ”

March, 2000 2
You might have heard about it.

W;_1),isclosure (ti hogtopic

 
  

  “La Ba! Masque”
0. , ‘Rich Balzer ’0I‘e.xpalsr’on,

 “Signs  *Pittsburgh“P_itates,

V  eleirientary school students,  . ‘

 ~ I Mayﬂower Homefor adults.
1: Sheretums to Westfiirginiagto . * 

  

“Josumnvzse: ‘

.1 ]lAgents. . .Seep. 3,. <

    

       
     

 

MAY 22, 2000


YEARS

FRESHMAN YEAR 1996-97 A
‘ KD colonizes 0
Shepherd Poverty
Program‘ initiated .
 “Under the Big Top’?
. Jack Bowden "00 dies

SOPHOMORE max 1997-98

VMI coeducates

FD: “Flappers, Flight

2 and Jazz all night long.”

Beth Formidoni ‘’99L
. elected first female EC
president

KAisuspended for hazing

‘e~

Jwvzox YEAR 1998-99

The Staircase closes
Salerno ’s moves

Sorority houses begun
Jonathan Nabors ’02
killed in I-81 car accident

«. xv.-nan-ac-~ . J, 3."

, Cabaret‘.

 EC reform 0 A

Jeff? Cook ’0I elected first .
i jcndergraduate EC —
I president ,

The Bicenquinquagenary
I ;*Baseball' stadium opens

 ;.

, smog ma 199-9-2000.
Lisa ’s House opens
TraveIier’s Bar & Grill
épens »

Jirn McKnight charged
‘ I [with rape, then ‘acquitted, '3

iMock Con nominates
; George W. Bush ( 4,
 Fl); “Lights, luck and
 Destination

. Vegas”

“ :White Book. reviewed

9 Former Prof Holliday

5 , files suit against W&L

. Parking garage opens

   SENIOR  
.fiSTANDOUTS.° A

 Citkisrrsn BATCHELLER:

' following one of the most
. _ successful athletic careers 
seen inirecent W&L history.  
.:.;"SnANNoNvBr:1.L: _ ‘ A l A
She initiates a community
prograrn where W&L
:  help tutor local

} {and helps raise student V
“ volunteerism at the ,

 conjunction with the“ ‘
‘ 5h°9l3§?§P°V§.‘iY?i"§?f§: 

   

‘ * manages to swim and act as a

. dorm counselor-. HeL’ll attend

' , olins Hopkins med school.

 «I Heads.—1rp’St1tdents -Against
 l”Rockbridlge Area Hunger. The

J . gran.» eradicates hunger in ,
 the countytwo”yearsinarow.i' Q

-331$ musicalggerﬁns of2000.
Playsby ear, and with

 W‘msFtillbriglit ‘sheusrudy '
.3  I V
3  and trade flow at
‘; , tl1eIJi1ivetsitybfBonnnext

  

gum’  “an arm Within

 I  in/.Mexico

  

it - e
   highest I
 _QA'Es¢et3e.witha’38.He~ ,

I _,;_‘.toat’te,nwyAMeaic§tL‘~‘

 

