 

Arch

9 3.7% . 755
R551

V. I03

tr’. Ir’) . :4?

C v 2.

VOLUME 103, NO. 19

C112 ilting-tum Iﬂ

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

JAMES G. LEYBURN l.lEi'¢,I"«.'r'~'."i"

  

LE~‘>«’sN«"- . VA. 24459
T; o 7 2001

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2001

I .
. . O
- - - In III 11 pl 11
Stlld€IltS dlSCllSS IIBW alcohol pOllCl€S C S10 a S
* com ‘led
New IFC and administra- P
tive proposals weighed in By Colin Harding I
, Open Ineetin I STAFF WRITER
g . The Committee for a More Inclusive Community hosted
By Michelle Lally a sctiudenttogly f0:'uttI111t0B1'6C0:l‘d cgpririiops on minority issues
STAFF WRITER an §;P° hi‘; 0 tr: Ear 0  365-h
it “ e’re O Ing s ecause, oug our committee
A student—only discussion group met in the Uriiver- has been meeting for quite sometime, we have, up until now
sity Center Wednesday night to address new regula- been doing more talking than action,”.said sophomore Will
tions to curb the alcohol culture at Washington and Lee. Teichman, one of the group leaders.
V Sophomore Will Coffman, student representative “I was pleased with the turnout,” said senior Renee

on the new W&L Alcohol Task Force, led a panel of
student leaders by directing the discussion on the new
initiatives of the Alcohol Task Force. The discussion
was Coffman’s idea to gauge student response to the

A; proposed rules. The task force intends to meet next

Sunday to create a proposal, which will be presented
to University President John Elrod on an unnamed date
within the next month. The panel included Executive
Committee President John Comly, Interfraterriity Coun-
cil President Andy Robinson, Panhellenic President
Katie Cedarholm, Student Judical Committee President
Jordan Ginsberg, Head Dorm Counselor Fred Heiser,
and Senior IFC Justice Trey Overdyke. The panel gath-

Q ered student feedback on the suggested alcohol-re-

ducing regulations that will be included in the pro-
posal.

In the 90-minute meeting, students questioned and
commented on a number of proposals. These included
expanding Live Drive, a campus-wide ban on hard alco-
hol, an automatic one-year suspension for a DUI with a
Blood Alcohol Content of .08 or higher, and the restric-
tion on using house funds to purchase alcohol.

3 Also discussed were the proposed IFC regulations,

primarily written by Sigma Nu President Matthew
Jacobs. The proposed rules include a ban on drinking
games and shots, and a 1:00 a.m. cut-off for alcohol
served at open parties.

‘ The Alcohol Task Force has worked towards re-

» Students search for next year ’s housing

A‘.

ducing alcohol consumption since its creation, shortly
after the deaths of Kristen Shelton and Adam
Burchett.

‘ More drastic measures were considered. Comly said

that after Shelton and Burchett’s fatal accident Elrod
wanted to temporarily close the fraternity houses, but
Dean of Students David Howison convinced him oth-
erwise. Howison oversees the task force, which is co-
chaired by Coffman, Physics Professor Tom Williams,
and Director of Student Health Services Dr. Jane

 

photo by Eric Wechtler/Staff Photographer

OPEN FORUM. Student government leaders facilitate conversation and answer questions
during Wednesday’s discussion on suggested changes in the W&L alcohol policy.

Horton. It also includes a law_ school student representa-
tive, law school faculty, and parents.

The IFC met earlier this week to create a proposal that
was presented to Elrod on Friday. After all presentations
are made, Elrod will decide which rules to put into effect.

Coffman said the Alcohol Task Force aims to make the
campus safer and make students more responsible with
these initiatives, but the students who attended
Wednesday’s discussion seemed skeptical.

Senior Ellie Antrim questioned if the proposed regula-
tions would push people off campus. The panel responded
they have no reason to believe that to be the case.

“Most of [these] rules have been in place for some time,
and we haven’t seen a push to the country yet,” Comly said.

When the fraternity presidents met last Monday to
create the IFC proposal, Robinson said the regulations
would not cause a drastic migration to country houses.

“We’ve been using that excuse for too long to get
away with a lot more than we should,” Robinson said.

Coffman expects to see the implementation of
these new regulations sometime within the next year.
Some changes have occurred already. Every party
must have two sober drivers wearing bright orange
shirts with “Sober Driver" written in large lettering.
Any house that fails to comply with new IFC and
university regulations will recieve ﬁnes and other
punishments. The severity of the measures has not
been determined.

Parties will be regulated by W&L security, members
of the IFC, and the officers of each house, who will
bear the brunt of responsibility if the new alcohol poli-
cies are not followed. Junior Thaxton Mauzy said the
fraternities will ultimately determine the effect of the
new regulations.

“The IFC has given us a huge responsibility to
change. .  it is our opportunity to show the administra--
tion that we can face this problem head-on and solve
it,” Mauzy said. A

BylMike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The scramble for next year’s housing con-
tinues, as university housing applications are
due on Feb. 26, and some upperclassmen still
hunt for off—campus housing.

Assistant Dean of Students for Residence
Life Courtney Penn said he encourages all
students to live in university housing for prac-
tical and social reasons.

“[Besides] staying in close proximity to carn-
pus, it builds a better community,” Penn said.

Upperclass students face several obstacles.
Because of the two-year campus residency re-
quirement, rising sophomores have the first
choice. The Housing Office will have two lot-
teries. The first, on March 7, will be for sopho-

mores, and the second, on March 9, for all other
students. The residency requirement, the lot-
tery system’s structure, and the lirriited num-
ber of spaces available Inake it difﬁcult for large
numbers of upperclassmen to live on campus.
New fraternity and sorority members who
want to live in Greek houses next year also face
limited space. For example, Kappa Alpha, who
had the second largest fraternity pledge class
this year, will require four or ﬁve sophomores
to live elsewhere. Sororities require anywhere
from four to nine officers to live in their houses,
and other spots are determined by a point—sys-
tem based on chapter involvement and GPA.
Many rising juniors and seniors decided
to find a more independent living arrangement
off—campus. Sophomore Kelli Austin and her
roommates will live at the “White House” at

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
WHITE HOUSE. A group of students will live here next year instead of on campus.

1 14 Henry St. next year, within walking distance
of campus. Austin said she decided to live in a
house instead of Gaines Hall or Woods Creek
Apartments because she wanted more freedom.

“I want to live more independently and have
some space,” Austin said.

Other students found houses close to cam-
pus. Junior Beth Collier will live on Preston
Street next year, half a mile from campus. Collier
said all of her roommates lived on campus for
three years, and wanted a change.

“We wanted to complete our W&L experi-
ence,” Collier said. A

That experience is one of Washington and
Lee’s many long-standing traditions. During
his presidency, Robert E. Lee encouraged stu-
dents to live in town to foster good relations
with the community. For over a century, stu-
dents have lived not only in town, but in in the
country as well. Sophomore Clark Griffith and
some of his fraternitybrothers will live at “The
Barn” next year. Clark said they chose the house
because of its distance away from campus and
closeness to other student houses.

“You get the social aspect of living in a
fraternity house, only with different types of
people,” Grifﬂth said.

The competition between students for off-
campus housing can be intense. Collier said
she and her friends found their house by read-
ing a campus notice in October after search-
ing for months through realtors.

“We didn’t take any chances. . . we signed
the lease that night,” she said.

Grifﬂth and his future housemates also
played tough when they had the opportunity
to sign a lease. They heard from the girls liv-
ing next door to the house that it was avail-
able. The girls then called the landlord, who
owns both houses, on Griﬁith’s behalf. Another

SEE ‘HOUSING,’ PAGE 2

Harper, president of PRIDE, a Washington and Lee di-
versity-awareness organization.

Students met in the Great Hall of the Science Cen-
ter, and later broke up into four task teams to discuss
academics, Greek life, athletics, and student associa-
tions. .

Facilitators assigned to each group led discussions,

and scribes wrote down recommendations.

Junior Justin Arnold said professors could participate
more in discussions on minority issues.

“More faculty members should be involved in student
groups because some problems could be resolved more
quickly with the help of the faculty,” said Arnold.

“I think that the Admissions [Office] needs to recruit
more home schooled students, who are an underlooked
minority,” said freshman Daniel Vos, a member of the aca-
demics task teams. “They could add new blood to the
school.”

The CIC also sponsors a web site where concerned stu-
dents can leave anonymous suggestions for the committee.

“I definitely think we had a good discussion,” said
senior Anne Hazlett, a CIC member. “And the best thing is
that it’s going to the Board of Trustees.”

 

.._. photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
WHAT DO YOU THINK? Members of the

academic task group swap proposals.

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁlii

February 5, 2001

 

     
 

H (1 Times:

 

 

 

ASHINGTON 8: LEE UNEVEH. ii" ."

 

PAGE 2

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

NEWS

THE WORLD

 

North Texas KA’s suspended

The University of North Texas chapter of Kappa Al-
pha Order has been suspended for ﬁve years after mem-
bers allegedly used racial slurs and waved a Confederate
battle ﬂag at a group of mostly black football recruits.

UNT issued the ﬁve-year suspension, the longest
the school has ever handed out, on Friday, forcing the
fraternity to vacate the house and withdraw from uni-
versity activities. The university spokesman justified
the five-year ban, saying “ﬁve years of no activity en-
sures a whole different group.” UNT decided that KA
had violated the student code and misled the investi-
gation.

The head of the fratemity’s national ofﬁce, Larry
Wiese, told KTVT-TV in Dallas that “I think the incident
is not reﬂective of the entire chapter up there. It is cer-
tainly not reﬂective of the alumni from that chapter or
the 94,000 living alumni.” A '

The suspension comes after several questionable in-
cidents involving the chapter. In 1990, the fraternity
served probation for alcohol violations and in 1996 was
placed on probation when a notebook containing racist
comments was found in the fraternity house. The frater-
nity recently completed a two—year probation for 1998
hazing and alcohol violations.

Libyan protest al-Megrahi convicton
Thousands of Libyans protested outside the
United Nations building in Tripoli Saturday to voice
anger over the conviction of Libyan Abdel Baset al-
Megrahi. Megrahi was convicted on Wednesday of
270 counts of murder for the bombing of Pan Am Flight
103 over Lockerbie in Scotland. A special Scottish
Court in Camp Zeist in the Netherlands delivered the
verdict after taking into consideration evidence from
US investigators who claimed that Megrahi and his

HOUSING

group of W&L students thought they had secured the house,
only to ﬁnd that it was taken when they called the landlord.
Junior Alex Curlet, who did most of the dealing with the
landlord, said he was glad he could ﬁnd a country house for
his senior year.

’ “It’ll be nice to have a yard. . . it’ll be more anirnal—
friendly,” Curlet said.

THIS WEEK

By Mehul Srivastava

partner, Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, were Libyan intelli-
gence agents.

The protestors claimed that this verdict was US in-
spired and protested the mishandling of the case by the
Libyan Government. The Lockerbie plane crash had
prompted UN sanctions against Libya when Gaddaﬁ re-
fused to hand over the two perpetrators to stand trial. A
ﬁnal compromise was reached by declaring 30 square miles
of Dutch soil as Scottish so that the trial could take place
in a neutral region.

Meanwhile Fhimah, who was acquitted, said he would
seek compensation for material and psychological dam-
ages. Relatives of the victims armounced they would sue
the Libyan government for 10 billion dollars in damages.

India assesses earthquake’s aftershocks

One week after an earthquake measuring 7.9on the
Richter scale hit the eastern state of Gujarat in India,
rescue efforts have given way to relief operations. With
entire cities devastated, close to 150,000 people have
lost their homes and are in urgent need of tents and
other supplies. Lack of coordination among relief ef-
forts has resulted in several parts of the state not re-
ceiving any aid whatsoever. Massive relief efforts by
the government and by non-profit’ organizations are
taking place, and it is estimated that it will be up to four
months before life is back to normal in the Kutch region
of Gujarat. The estimated damage to property is 5.5 bil-
lion dollars.

There are conflicting reports on the death toll, but the
Gujarat Government estimates 25,000, a ﬁgure that is bound
to rise once excavation of bodies from destroyed build-
ings begins.

Aftershocks and tremors measuring up to 5.0 on the
Richter scale have prevented people from moving back
into their houses, many of which have developed cracks.

FROM PAGE 1

Some students thought the rigors of ﬁnding an apart-
mentor house were not worth the possible beneﬁts. Jun-
ior Jason Williams, who lived in Woods Creek both this
year and last, said he enjoys living on campus and did not
want the risk associated with off—campus housing.

“I heard a lot about. . . the bad condition of the houses,
and I didn’t want the hassle,” Williams said.

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

How DO YOU SPELL THAT NAME? W&L English professor Marc Conner signs a copy of his new book, 
The Aesthetics of Toni Morrison: Speaking the Unspeakable, to senior Erin Ferguson. '

THE

every momlay
8:30 p.m. to midnight

JAVA AT

coI=FEEpeopleMus|icmore

February 12 Karaoke
February 26 BluesWorks

tonight... :1

GHQ

Live Drive
(10 pm to 2 am)

Will drive reasonable distances on
Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays

call 460-3054 or 460-3055

Housing Applications are now available.

Students interested in living
in Gaines Hall or Woods Creek Apartments for the 2001-
2002 academic year must stop by the Housing Office
(Payne 4) and pick up a housing application.

(Only one application per Cluster or Group).-
Anyone wishing to live in a fraternity or sorority must
also submit an individual application.

If you are interested in special housing such as one of the
Theme Houses, please contact the following for speciﬁc
information and sign-ups.

Peoplehood Suite, Chavis House, Delt House -
Dean Penn - Payne Hall 3
International House - Mr. Klingelhofer - Tucker 316
Nabors Suites - Stacey McLoughlin - Graham Lees 355
Outing Club - Mr. Tatar - University Center

The deadline for all applications is February 26, 2001.

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

 

(lire ilting-tum iﬁlii

 PIN ION 

New rules will
‘lead to abuse

Ifit’s not an article divulging the secret that Washington
it and Lee is homogenous, then it’s an article about the “drink-
ing problem” here. And in the same vein, if it’s not an as-
' sembly of the C-School persuasion, it’s an assembly outlin-
ing the detiiments of drinking. So here are my thoughts
reconciling the two.
I’m not exactly the drinking-you-under-the—table srat
girl, so don’t misinterpret this as a dissertation on the
glory of Natty Light. Rather, it’s an appeal to stop forcing
2000 college students to work around drinldng limitations.
€ ;’Rules stated by the Interfraterriity Council decree that
._;there shall be no drinking hard liquor after 9 p.m., no beer
‘drinking after 1 a.m., no drinking games, and no shots.
Though I fully understand the consequences of “binge
':drinking,” I don’t agree that these rules will curb the dan-

 

B Christine Metzger

  
    

  
    
        
 
    

{C/.444/"'3'.

   
   

. - K .-
~\..\\\...\..i

      

Egers of it. [2 
: I spent a good portion of last term being the sober .1)‘, 
tlriver for my group of friends, so if we’re responsible  ‘§*
enough to designate drivers, I don’t think it’s fair to regu-  
at late our drink- 3 . ‘*1
ing. The last
thing I want is Northernefs Exposure 1:01 a.m. masses of students are forced to retreat out to the is not a testament to the hardcore, badass drinkers here,
A for this opin— Kris Pollina ’O3 country if they wish to continue partying. Despite sober but a mere demonstration of how the aforementioned
I‘ ion piece to drivers and Live Drive, this situation will still result in stu— rules will not be successful in drying out the campus. Ifthe

come across as a sneering “lots of luck trying to restrain 20- dents driving out to the country late at night, some perhaps administration wants to make Lexington safer, having un-

year—o1ds from drinking” commentary. Instead, I’m trying to after they have been drinking. And once out at the country derstood the drinking culture, it would be more efficient to

suggest the more hazardous consequences of abolishing at around 2 a.m., the sober rides stop, and there is hoard of first accept the intensity of the Greek system here. It would

drinking in town. drinking students eager to get home. If the parties had re- be safer to look for ways to keep drunk drivers off the road.

I It’s a lot easier to chug a beer than it is to chug a mained at the fraternity houses, this could easilybe remedied With more sober drivers, perhaps Live Drive could stay

screwdriver. And who chugs a screwdriver anyway? So by just walking. However, the IFC rules are just leading to open longer. _
cutting off the vodka supply at 9:00 p.m. will not induce an possible DUIs and accidents. While I strongly applaud the efforts regarding our

“Oh! We’re out of liquor! Let’s play Yahtzee instead!” So we can’t throw a ping pong ball into a cup of beer safety, it’s my belief that these efforts will backfire, pop-

mentality. It will only add another strain to maneuver anymore. If someone has resolved to get wizasted, he’ll do ping our W&L bubble, and heightening the danger in

around. Likewise, once the 1:00 a.m. rule kicks in, at roughly it, regardless of whether he has a Beruit partner or not. This each and every weekend.

Personal responsibility takes backseat to law suits

The Super Bowl is known for its creative, funny, and smoke, they are attacking tobacco companies as at fault for tion denouncing “negative cheering” which was to be
sometimes thought—provoking commercials. But this the deaths and illnesses of smokers. The problem is that read to the crowd at every home game. One wouldn’t
year’s broadcast featured two advertisements from the smokers made a choice to puff away on three-packs-a- want to hurt the feelings of the football players. Of course,
American Legacy Foundation, a group committed to mak— day for 30 years. No one forced them to start smoking the victim culture is best demonstrated by former Presi-
‘ ing America a smoke—free nation. Encouraging youngsters or to continue smoking. They have no one to blame but dent Clinton, who told Advocate magazine that he was
to reevaluate their choice to smoke is certainly an adrni- themselves. However, in modern America it is uncouth victimized by a witch-hunt which tried to overturn the
rable goal, but these commercials went too far in their to hold people responsible for choices and decisions results of two elections and, like the homosexual audi-

I

demoriization of not only cigarettes, but of the cigarette they make. ence of the magazine, was “oppressed.”
manufacturers as purveyors of death, or outright, cold- The most heinous example, though, is the Master Settle— The victim culture is a recent evolution in America.
‘ blooded murdererers. ment Agreement itself. This was the crowning achievement Its driving force is the trial lawyers who stand to make

This recently founded organization is just one more in for trial lawyers who have been seeking to squeeze billions millions of dollars in malpractice and punitive lawsuits.
a laundry list of groups that are contributing to the victim— out of corporate America in punitive damage lawsuits. They champion these supposed victims because such
ization of America and the degradation of our respect for Starting with the uproar over silicon breast implants and an arrangement nets them huge paydays. In the tobacco

1 personal responsibility. This phenom- continuing to the recent assault on lawsuit, private lawyers for just three of the 46 states,
enon is destroying what was once an ghs de of the aisle gun manufacturers, we have seen Texas,Mississippi, and Florida, made $8.2 billioninlegal
independent, individualistic society. huge lawsuits ham-string the way fees. Inl-iloiida, each lawyer earned $233 million, or about
Modern Americans feel no compunction Brett  ’()4 business is done and force some $7,716 an hour, assuming they worked every hour of
about suing corporations for mistakes interests to fold. Today, we sue the every day during the 42 month duration of the legal

7‘ they have made. Parents are blamed for gun manufacturers; it would make battle.
psychological problems in adulthood, ciirninals blame op— too much sense to prosecute the criminals who actually used This perversion of the legal practice is allowed to go
pressive policing, and murderous children are free to blame the weapons. on because trial lawyers are huge contributors to politi-
violent cartoon shows for their killing rage. Instead of Recent manifestations of the victim culture include a cal parties and campaigns. Trial lawyers are the second

. holding people accountable for their actions, everybody movement to remove urinals because allowing men to stand largest single contributor to the Democratic party, be-
has become a victim. This cultural shift, if left unchecked, is a “nasty, macho gesture.” The U.S. Navy has initiated a hind the National Education Association. We have
may do irreparable damage to the cultural fabric of our plan to replace all urinals with stainlesssteel toilets. Similar seen and could expect little change from Washing-
nation. to the woman whose McDonald’s coffee was too hot, ton when Clinton was in office. However, one of

The American Legacy Foundation, founded after the Veronica Martin of Knoxville, Tennessee is suing President Bush’s greatest achievements when he

it $206 billion Master Settlement Agreement of 46 state at— McDonald’s because an overly hot pickle in a hamburger was governor of Texas was tort reform, legislation

tomeys general with tobacco manufacturers, has dedi- bumed her chin, leaving her with permanent physical and that successfully reduced the scope and number of pu-

cated itself to making America smoke—free. Unfortunately, mental scars. After Penn State’s abysmal season prompted nitive lawsuits in Texas. Let’s hope that he brings a sirni—
instead of criticizing the choice of people who chose to many fans to boo, the faculty senate there passed a resolu- lar plan for reform to Washington.

k I r O b O 1 O 0
(she Mn mm ssh, nteraction egets inc usivity
g Thou the uriiversi has made little progress in its han— described the “Livin and Learning” Center.
W 8
dling of sexual assaults, alcohol abuse, or “inclusivity” since What we are missing, what the goal of a more inclusive
' Executive Editors Emily games . my freshman year, I still vainly get my hopes up when the community is, what a “liberal arts” diploma should include
_ Stephanie Bianco administration hosts forums as they did last week. It’s only is an intellectual and, dare I say it, social exchange between
New Ed''”” En“ :[°,':l‘:"‘n"“ when I start to think about it (why, different groups. While the “Living
ax mi . . . . . ,, .
Ass,-smn, News Ed,-,0, Mike Agneuo if is so important, was there no Fake Minority andLeaming Centerrnight look great
.2 Opinion Editor Tam Am. Friedei pubhcity?) and when I actually at— on paper, might even keep a small per-
W&1-ife Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia tend, that I get discouraged again. Alexis Yeegarda ‘()1 centage of the independent population
“ Spom Edm" Jeremy Franklin Part of the problem with the happy it is notasolution. There is still
Last Word Editor Bryan Early  . . ,,. . . . . . . ’ . . .

Copy Editor Heather McDonald mclusivity issue, is that we seem tobe struggling with iden- a stigma. They are still not mteracting with the rest of the
\ s Contributing Editor Michaei cl-mend“. tifying the purpose of “creating amore inclusive community.” world. The rest of the world is still not learning anything
‘ “'0” Ed"‘" MRI’! Guy No one should walk away fromaforum about inclusivity think- from them in that interaction. On that note, they are not

Smff Phomg '“1’h” En“ w"'°n"°" ing that more money devoted to minority groups will solve the learning anything from the rest of the world.
Business Manager Paul safe" problem. There is a reason that “separate but equal” failed. In a way, the “Livingiand Leaming” Center  the 
Circulation Director char] 1.; Tonem Ifthe goal is to increase numbers, increase retention, maybe example of why the creation of acential orgamzauon for mde—
gr even increase the happiness, of “non—traditional students” on pendents, complete with university ﬁmds, is a bad idea. So-

this campus, then yes, money may be the answer. Put these cial interaction is a fact of life. Someone who could actually
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the students up up in some really nice housing, give them money say “ostracism is not thatbad” might be able to learn a thing
undergraduate 5011001 Yﬁaf at Washington and L56 to do with what they will (all in the name of noble causes, of or two from these other kids who were trained ‘to climb the
. Ulnversnyt Lexington’ Vnginin The Wnsningtnn and 1-55 course). Guess what — the minorities, independents, etc. are social ladder. It’s amutual exchange, people, and guess what:
1‘ Publications Bmrd elects the Executive Editor’ but The going to stick around, they might even be a little happier, but it Creating a bunch of well-funded communities for minority A

Rmg-tum Ilhi is °‘h"“nS.° independent‘ A . will not create an inclusive community. . . In fact, I think I just students to take haven in is not going to bring that about.
The Rmg-tum Phi welcomes all responsible *

submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.

ti on Friday torappear in the following week’s edition. The T   you Watch — Friends or Survivor?

  

Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
>( tum Phi or its staff. "This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity. '

 

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
~ Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
pp http://wlu.edu/~phi

         

Annual Submption me: $30 “Friends —how YOU doin’ !” “Tape Survivor! Watch Friends!” “Friends because I can relate.” “Friends, because it’s shorter.”
—Mike Reynold ‘02 -Tami Olubunmi ’02 -Andrew Willis ‘03 -Catherine Culpepper ‘04

 

 

PAGE 4

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

PINION

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

Don’t like it?
Then you try it!

Sitting in the Dining Hall the other day, I was privi-
leged enough to hear a fellow student complain loudly
about how “awful both these newspapers are, they suck
horribly.” He was referring of course to this publication
and our signiﬁcantly younger sibling that comes out on
Wednesdays. Asking the student to elaborate on his rather
puerile comments, he launched into a standard list of com-
plaints that I have heard from a number of students: poor

writing; numerous typos, spelling mistakes and grammar

problems; editorials written by lunatics with silly opinions
no one wants to hear; and pointless articles that have no

‘ relevance. Agreeing with him fully and taking his comments

in stride, my only response was to ask him how many times
he had written a Letter to the Editor concerning his prob-
lems. Not unexpectedly, his answer was never, a response I
often receive when asking students on campus how they
have made their concerns known. Slightly odd thinks the
muse, you have a complaint but are content to let it lie and
not seek change.

This is not to say that the problems many students
on this campus have with our school newspapers are
not valid. In fact, I more than agree. Though we have
spent hours in our journalism ethics class discussing
what the role of journalists is, fairly simple guidelines
can be set down without involving too much debate. It
is our job to inform, to cover campus events, entertain
with features and beer reviews (I had to toot my own
horn a little), to let students know what decisions are
going to effect them, and to cover all the news that fits
(cliché alert). We are also saddled with the responsibil-
ity of doing it well, for there is a whole campus of critics
out there who seem to love to take potshots but never

 

c

newspaper. None of us really want to be in the Phi or
Trident offices until the wee hours of the morning, but we
invariably are. I remember Zander Strong, former editor of
the Trident, coming into class Wednesday mornings and
immediately falling asleep after a late night at the newspa-
per. I remember long nights I myself used to spend in the
University Center, laying out stories, copy-editing and
waiting for a promised story. We spend long, long hours
putting together what you read each week and it ain’t that
easy. Why then, you may ask, aren’t the papers any bet-
ter? The answer, unfortunately, is that not enough people
have the commitment or drive to participate, let alone join
the staff of one of the newspapers.

Having worked for the Phi

step up to the plate.

Looking at recent editions of both
newspapers, however, I don’t know
how well we are doing our job. Recent
editions of the Trident neglected to
ﬁnish an article, had an unreadable black box for a sidebar,
and spelled their own Executive Editor’s name wrong in a
photo credit. Not to be unfair to Ms. McConnell (spell-
ing?) and Ms. Nelson, my own publication is not in the
least bit less guilty, presenting weekly some of the most
irrelevant articles published on campus. While news does
seem to be a bigger focus than our counterpart, the same
basic errors are ever present. Typographical errors, spell-
ing mistakes and general miscues that most likely should
have been caught. Contrary to popular belief, however,
this isn’t the easiest thing in the world to do, otherwise
more of you might give it a try.

We all have as many classes as you do, we all have
other activities and lives outside of working at a school

 

     

P

 

18 E. NELSON ‘ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464 -4483

,, ,‘ (b g.Edi[Or since freshman year, I have seen

many people come and go; report-

Mike Cdttenden 01 ers, photographers, copy editors,

general help etc.— all who have
ended up not sticking with it. I am sure the same is true for
the Trident. Part of the reason is that there is no reward to
be gained from joining. At larger schools, reporters and
editors for school newspapers are paid for their services.
Here we can’t even be sure people are reading what we
write. With reduced staffs, we have fewer people checking
mistakes, fewer people involved in the process, and in the
end, less input into the journalism process. This is bad for
we practicing journalists and you, the readers. We aren’t
able to, or encouraged to, cover stories that students on this
campus need to know about. The administration is slowly
trying to change what this school is, its identity, who goes to
school here and what the rules governing you will be. You’d
barely know it, however, because we don’t have the time,

resources or reader demand to let you know, which is a sad,
sad thing. I can write a colunm reviewing beers week in and
week out, cover the latest band the SAB has had come play,
but the most important stories I have written since I started
working for a school newspaper were about alcohol-free hous-
ing in fraternities and the car crash earlier this year. Those
were real stories that had the potential for some impact. We
have journalism students who can write, students who can
cover real stories and students who can provide you with
the information you need to know. We just don’t have the
readership.

Students are content to complain about how awful the
newspapers here at Washington and Lee are. They have
never written for a newspaper, have never written a Letter
to the Editor, and have never even considered what they
would do differently if given the opportunity to make what-
ever changes they would like. Instead they are happy to
complain and loudly let us know that they don’t like what we
are doing.

I know the papers here aren’t great, and I know there are
many changes that need to be made. We need more student
involvement, more resources, and more time. We, as joumal-
ists have to continue to get better at our craft, and to do as
best we can with what we have. I would like to offer you, the
people who think we aren’t doing a good job, a challenge.
Write an opinion piece. Write a Letter to the Editor. Hell,
come to a meeting and write an article. It won’t kill you,
and in fact maybe you’ll enjoy it, seeing your name in the
paper, your friends complimenting you on your work. And
maybe, slowly, with more students like you getting involved,
the papers will be more up to the high standards at which we
would all like to see them.

THE PLACE FOR FOOD AND 1-‘um

    
        
    
    
 
     
 
    

    

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

( u : I .)
./l,()1‘l.S‘.(Il‘I(/I ()I)llI;1(II(il/'

 

LINGER AT A FIRESIDE TABLE
COFFEE 0 ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO 0 PASTRIES - BAGELS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ' LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

TUESDAY - 8 BALL TOURNEY
$ 100.00 CASH PRIZE

weomesmv ~ 9jBALL rouizzvrv
$ 100.00 CASH 7’RIZE  
.. ..§'€....a\J A  

COME ON DOWN AND TEST    . t  QM 33 ;\_,\j Q
YOUR SKILL        '   A  

  The
Elephant   A       
 Man         

DIRECTED BY
3.0. MARTINEZ

FEB. 9,10, 12 8: 13, A2001, - 3 RM.
. FEB. 11, 2001 - 2, RM.
JOHNSON  9 LENFEST 

Tickets and Information 0 S40/463-8000

 

W 

 

 

    

     

   
 
   

i FEBRUARY 5 , 2001 PAGE 5
C Q
~ ingers take their show on the road
By Katie Howell V A C .
‘ STAFF WRITER
While many students will travel over February
Break, few will be able to boast of visiting as many _. '  r
cities as Washington and Lee’s a capella musical - -
" ensembles, Southern Comfort and JubiLee, which By Mlchael Cnttenden
will tour the Southeast region, performing for CONTRIBUTING EDITOR
alllmni Chapters in nine different Cities. Like a neon—technicolor blight on society’s back-
“lwe are excited ab011t the l1’lP because] the side, Mardi Gras is looming, rising out of the Louisi-
f : alumni chapters in ‘the South really love the a ana swamps ljke the phoenix from its own ashes, New
; Capella groups, and It’s fun for us to be rock stars ‘Orleans, the City of Sin, once described by a visitor
1 for a week,” said senior Colin Tate, student musi- as collecting all the evil and sin from the states along
 Cal €llfeCt01'0fS011the1'n COInf0IT, W&L’S all-male a the Mississippi River, and serving as a basin for all
2 “P6113 gT011P- the drunken revelers to sate their thirsts in the bac-
V  Alumni Director for Online Communications ehanai they can Fat Tuesday, with this in mind 1
; Chris Edwards helped to plan the trip and said presentalager borninthis somewhat demonic atmo-
 the groups will leave Lexington on Feb. 17. From sphere; Acadian Brewing Cofs Vienna Amben
; there they will travel to Louisville, Ky.,Nashvi1le, ABronze Medal Winner at the 1998 Great Ameri-
h ; Tenn-,MeII1phiS,Tenn-, Little ROCK, Ark-, ShIeVe- can Beer Festival, Vienna Amber is modeled after
 p011. La-, laCl(S0n, MiSS-, Birmingham, Ala, At- the Marzen and Oktoberfest styles pioneered by
; lanta, Ga-. and ChafleSt0n, S-C. l3ef0fe returning the Germans centuries ago, which were brewed in
 t0 W&L 011 Fell 24- March and served in October. Brewed in the classic

‘ j ‘‘[The Alumni Office plans this trip] because it Viennese amber genre, Acadian’s lager combines

I helpS them and ITS,” Edwards Said. “When We , , _ _ Rl”’*"””' M” We Ph°‘° primarily Munich and Caramel malts forasatisfying

 Sponsor programs like this’ it helps the Smaller DUBYUNELL D1vAs. Jub1Lee performs in Lee Chapel during Parents? Weekend in November. deep amber colon Pound Correctly with amedium

j [alumni] chapters have events that they could “A lot of people are involved in the planning of head, Vienna Amber has a rich bouquet that avoids

7 not otherwise have. Also, the alumni like to see this trip,” Edwards said. “Those of us at the univer— the fruity characteristics of most ales. The presence

Q _ the people come from the university because it sity rely on the alumni chapter presidents to set up of Hallertau hops really makes this lager, however,
‘ makes them feel connected to the school.” places for the events and to ﬁnd housing for the making the first taste as pleasant as the last.

Edwards said that the tour has been a bien— students. Also, people have to make and send out Amember of the Carrollton Brewing Assoc. LLC,

nial tradition for the past 10 years. Other re— the invitations. There is a lot of work involved in the Acadian Brewing Co. offers a number of ﬁne la-

gions that the groups have visited include the planning these types of events.” gers. The brewery produces ﬁve year—round beers

'\ Northeast and California. The groups did not The groups practice several times a week to pre- including the Pilsener, Helles Bock and Hefe Pilsener

travel two years ago because most of the bud- pare for the concerts and tours like this one. styles. The brewery also produces one specialty beer
; get went toward the celebration of the 250th “We have been practicing two or three times a monthly, as well as various seasonal beers, all of
 anniversary of the university. week all year with several songs from last year and which are available in the greater New Orleans area.

. “We’re really excited about this trip. It is fun several new songs,” said Heatherington. “We are My recommendation is to give this beer a try if

. because we get to put on so many shows per week. especially excited about the trip because it will give you are in the New Orleans area any time soon
It’s great to get that many chances to show off,” us good practice for the CD we are going to put out (e.g. February Break). Knowing the penchant for
said senior Sarah Heatherington, student musical once we get back.” Washington and Lee students to ﬂock to various
director of JubiLee, the school’s all-female group. Students impatient for new releases from Jubi- locales south of the Mason Dixon when there is

V The alumni chapters in the various cities that lee and Southern Comfort can pick up their earlier even the slightest hint of a party, I do not think this

the groups plan to visit have all arranged luncheons, CDs in the Bookstore. should be a problem. Though I do not know if you
receptions or dinners followed by entertainment from Heatherington and Tate both said that students will ﬁnd Acadian while stumbling around the Quar-
the musical groups. Alumni, guests and current stu— interested in becoming a part of one of these musi- ter, I suggest you sober up, take a shower and stop
~. dents from the area will attend the performances. cal groups will have the opportunity to try out early hm, w,,,.,w E“,_,,,,,.,h HL,”,,,,,,,, by a nice restaurant to give it a try. Remember, qual-
Alumni will also house the students each night be- during Spring Term and once again at the begin- BETTER THAN ’NSYN C. Southern Comfort sings for enthusi- ity is favorable to quantity. Until next week, whenl
fore they travel to another city. ning of Fall Term. astic new members and actives at the Chi Omega house. review a special Valentine’s Day beer for all you
star-crossed lovers out there, adieu!

V ever, they recently sold the name to Bronco Wine Co.,
which will receive only the name and labeled cased goods

I _ in inventory. The Napa Ridge winemaker, David
Schlottman, will stay on with Beringer as a liaison to
I other Beringer subsidiaries.

‘ ' The Napa Ridge Chardonnay is a great buy at only
$13 a bottle. The agreeable, medium-bodied palate makes
this a good wine for people just beginning to appreciate

S U I ‘ i I i N e r  : h 0 I O  wines, especially since white wines are generally easier

‘ to start on than reds. Chardonnays are also by far the
most popular of the white wine Varietals.

' re  This pale yellow-gold wine presents with a ﬁrm appley
O U n  O r S By Alexis Yee_GarCia nose and subtle cream aromas. The crisp acidity bal-
~ . p H q _ H ances nicely with the plush buttery texture. Sweet, but

I FM’ UR“ E—1—”—/-OR — » —----——— - ---- - not overbearing, vanilla ﬂavors provide a good equality

J u   ' J u   ’  ll Despite the dangers of changing this page into a two for delicate mineral notes and well integrated oakiness.
part dissertation on the joys of quality alcoholic bever- Overall, the dominant fruit characteristics make this an
ages, I have made an executive decision: It is entirely too easy wine to drink.

,' a much fun to do reviews to leave all that play to Mr. Keep this wine in mind for that romantic, Valentine’s

A ' Crittenden. Like Michael, I also have a hometown bias and Day dinner (unless Michael’s Valentine beer proves too

      G g  C  n    0 represented this week with my wine choice: Napa Ridge tempting to resist), especially if you are enjoying alighter
. - . . 1998 North Coast Chardonnay from California, of course. entree, such as chicken picatta or pasta primavera. If

,  O         Though the name suggests that this Chardonnay comes you have developed a new love for wine, e-mail me at

W . _ _ from Napa Valley, Ca., Napa Ridge is not, in fact, an actual yeegarciaa@wlu.edu and let me know, especially if there

__ h I g h      I   n g   L location. Beringer, a company whose main label winery is is a wine out there that you want me to review. Until next

 , I _ actually located in N apa, created the brand for their wines time, remember, drink responsibly and try not to be afraid

     J u    I n  G  produced at an old Asti facility in Sonoma County. How— of exploring your non—beer options.

H‘: v . . ,

5 Lee Summer Scholars Porgram is an Are you computer—literate? We re not!
“ exciting four week academic program for The phi
‘  I I I I

35 appmxlmalely 150 "Smg mgh school is in search of an online editor

:2 seniors. We are looking for responsible

~22 - - - to update our web page every week

:; students to help guide participants and to I _ _ '

 plan extracurricular activites such as talent If YOU |‘e I hterestedz 9 We "5 3 Ca ll at

e ' - - 4060

,_ shows, lip syncs, weekend hikes, trips to X,

 I ‘ '-

~ :; G0-‘then Clnd m0le- or email us at phi@wlu.edu
V  . .
 For further information and to obtain   LV’L°L 'E”D”"°
ii; I _ I _ ,  .. .
 applications, please contact Jennifer Lotts, 
 Summer Scholars, Hill House at 463-8722.
What are you giving this year?
   1. ' ' N‘ 1.‘ ' Why not the timeless beauty and symbolism of the Claddagh?
      Available in rings, earrings, bracelets, &,necklaces in gold and silver
F b   I See our knotwork jewelry, Scottish Luckenbooths, and Welsh Lovespoons tool
‘t
9 "-'C"Y = - CELTIC CONNECTION
_ I ‘ 19 W. Nelson V 10AM-5:30PM M—SAT
T 464-6545 V www.ce|ticconne‘x.com

 

 

 

PAGE 6

 Men’s hoops endures tough week

By Jeremy Franklin 1

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team expe-
rienced perhaps the most tumultuous times of their sea-
son this week, dropping three close Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference games and having two players dismissed

9 from the team.

The Generals sandwiched overtime losses to Emory
and Henry and Lynchburg around a 66-60 home defeat to
nationally ranked Hampden-Sydney. Sophomores Will
Cotter and Scott Hettermann were removed from the team
following the Wednesday loss to Emory and Henry.

Senior Chad Braley’s 21 points, a season high, and
classmate Will Ballard’s -16 weren’t enough against
the Wasps, who shot 52 percent from the field to pull
out an 84-77 win.

Emory and Henry led 78-66 with 3:21 remaining, but an
11-2 General run trimmed the lead to three. However, the
Wasps preserved their lead from the free throw line, where
they shot 91 percent for the game.

W&L shot a season-high 52 percent from the field
against Hampden-Sydney at home on Saturday. Ballard
provided his best offensive output of the year with 20
points, but the Generals also turned the ball over 26 times
against the Tigers.

The Generals led 41-39 with less than eight minutes
remaining, but Hampden-Sydney rolled off a 10-0 run.
Freshman David Bode fouled out during the run, also com-
mitting a technical foul, and the Tigers hit all four of the
ensuing free throws.

Lynchburg forward Dennis Brown scored 39 points and
snagged 17 rebounds to lead the Hornets to a 77-68 overtime
win over W&L on Sunday. Lynchburg overcame a ﬁve-point
deﬁcit in the final 29 seconds of regulation, and then shot 64
percent from the ﬁeld in overtime to win the game.

After hitting just 27 percent of their shots from the
ﬂoor in the first 20 minutes, W&L stormed out of the locker

@112 King-tum lﬂlit

S PORTS

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

PERIMETER GAME. Freshman Michael Denbow (14) veers around classmate John Saxon in the
Generals’ 66-60 loss to fifth-ranked Hampden-Sydney at the Warner Center on Saturday.

room in the opening minutes of the second half. Bode
scored seven of his nine points in a 1:48 span early in the
half as W&L built a five-point advantage.

Ballard’s three—point play at the 7:23 mark pushed the
lead to 44-37, but the Hornets ran off a 9-0 run to take a
two—point lead with 4:47 remaining. W&L regained the
lead on Bra1ey’s field goal at 3:38, and built their advan-
tage back up in the closing minutes before the late

Coming next week...

The Phi continues to preview W&L spring sports
with a look at the baseball, golf, men’s lacrosse
and women’s tennis teams. Also, continued
coverage of W&L winter sports as ODAC and
Centennial Conference tournaments draw near.

Ring-tum Phi File Photo

    

   

Britain - Aus“

alia -

WHY BUNAC 
- We take care of the Work Authorlsatlon

Pll Iiux 113’!
Suutlilmrv [Ill l]ﬁA88
I ﬂllll Ali? 85?‘)

- Help with Job hunting: career or casual
- Resource centers In each country
- We are non proﬂt with 38 years of experlencel

 / 

Lynchburg rally.

Braley scored 17 points and Ballard added 16 points
and a career—best 14 rebounds against the Hornets. Junior
Bob Bustamante chipped in 1 1 points, and freshman John
Saxon finished with nine points and five blocks.

The Generals (3-18, 3-13 ODAC) step out of confer-
ence play on Wednesday with a 7 p.1n. road contest against
Greensboro College.

Generals young butrady

Unseasoned men’s tennis

team sports a plethora of

talent and a national ranking
By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

This spring, the Washington and Lee men’s tennis
hopes to make a serious run at the Division III national
championship. V

Positioned 25th in the country in a preseason Inter-
collegiate Tennis Association Division III ranking, the
Generals are considered by many to be a strong out-
side contender. Ranked seventh in the competitive
Southern Division, the Generals must be among the top
two in the season by season’s end to qualify for the
national tournament.

The strength of the squad lies in the talented youth of
the team. On a squad of 16 players, there are no seniors.
Furthermore, six out of the 16 players are freshmen.

Yet this is not new for the Generals. Last year’s team
had no seniors and only one junior. This year, there are six
juniors on the team, including number one seed Rhys James.
Having played in the top positions last year as sopho-
mores, these players have the experience that any con-
tender needs.

“The true strength of this team is our depth,” said team
captain Rob Moynihan, a junior who plays in the number
five position. “The experienced players from last year have
been bumped downto lower positions while positions
two, three and four are all new.”

These three new players are Andrew Roberts, a junior
who took off his sophomore season, and freshmen Aus-
tin Kim and Graham Nix.

As they haven’t competed against these new faces,
opposing teams in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
and the division will have trouble preparing fully to meet

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

   

Upcoming events in W&L athletics
Baseball 1
Feb. 19 at Olgethorpe 3:00 p.m.
Feb. 20 at Emory 2:00 p.m.
Feb. 22 at Olgethorpe 3:00 p.m.
Feb. 25 Muhlenberg (2) 12:00 pm.
Men’s Basketball

Feb. 7 at Greensboro 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 10 Eastern Mennonite 4:00 p.m.
Feb. 12 at Bridgewater 7:00 p.m.
Women’s Basketball

Feb. 7 Eastern Mennonite 7:00 p.m.
Feb. 10 Randolph—Macon » 2:00p.m.
Feb. 13 at Emory and Henry 7:00 p.m.
Feb. 15 Virginia Wesleyan 7:00 p.m.
Feb. 17 Hollins 2:00 p.m.
Feb. 18 Roanoke 2:00 p.m.
Golf

Feb. 23 at Guilford ODAC Invitational TBA
Men’s Lacrosse

Feb. 25 Elmira 1:00 p.m.
Women’s Lacrosse

Feb. 17-18 at South of the Border Toum. All Day
Men’s Swimming

Feb. 15-17 at Grove City Invitational TBA
Women’s Swimming

Feb. 16-18 at ODAC/Atlantic States Inv. TBA
Men’s Tennis

Feb. 15 VMI 3:00 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track

Feb. 9-10 at Christopher Newport Inv. TBA
Feb. 24 at ODAC Championships TBA
Wrestling

Feb. 10 at Albright Quadrangular TBA

Feb. 17 at Centennial Championship 10:00 am.

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED. The Washington and
Lee men’s tennis team is ranked 25th in the
preseason ITA Division III poll.

them. However, this factor could also be seen as a two-
way street.

“Possibly, the naivete of our freshmen can pose as an
asset,” Nix said. “We’re not as intimidated by the higherrankcd
teams, because we do not know what to expect of them.”

Besides the newcomers, the team already boasts a
clear advantage in individual matches, with such latent
talent possessed by the more experienced players lower
in the roster. Combining experience, talent, and determi-
nation, the Generals have positioned themselves for a
highly successful 2001 season.

  
 
  

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

S

Ellie iﬂing-tum ilﬂhi

 

PORTS

., & sea

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
COUNTING THE DAYS. Senior Martha Combrooks

and W&L open the season on Feb. 17.

‘ Generals knock off Southern Virginia

' W&L sports roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

5 The Washington and Lee wrestling team defeated
Southern Virginia, 26-15, at home on Wednesday, and
then finished third out of eight schools in the Newport
News Apprentice Invite on Saturday.

.{~ , Against Southern Virginia, senior heavyweight John
Sensing and junior 125-pounder Ben Segal recorded pins
to lead the way for the Generals. Senior Josh Chamberlain
(149 pounds), freshman Steve Saks (157), senior John
Valentine (184), and junior Ezra Morse (197) also won

1 ,their matches for W&L.

_ The Generals scored 60 points in the Apprentice Invite,
;;,ﬁnishing.behind Longwood at 122 and North Carolina-
g;Pembroke at 90. Morse and freshman Joe Mueller (184)
‘both finished second in their respective classes, and Cham-
gberlain and Saks both ended the day in third place.
iv Sensing, Valentine, and freshman Cory Little placed
' fourth for the Generals.

  W&Lis now 4-5-1 overall and —l-3~invtheCentennial- A

1 _,Conference. The Generals take the road again on Satur-
"day for the Albright Quadrangular in Reading, Pa.

iWomen’s hoops team drops
yilopsided game to Guilford

Guilford overcame a 26-point night from Washington

, and Lee junior Jessica Mentz to knock off the Generals,
89-51, at home on Wednesday.

A Jennie Keichline scored 14 of her team-leading 16
points in the second half as the Quakers extended a 40-23
halftime advantage.

; Junior Megan Babst scored 11 points and grabbed 12

‘rebounds for W&L, whichlfell to 6-12, 4-10 in the Old

{ Dominion Athletic Conference with the loss.
The Generals meet Eastern Mennonite at home on
Wednesday.

~Women’s team

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

' The Washington and Lee women’s swimming team
improved to 4-0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
‘ence on Thursday in a dual meet against Radford and
Hollins. With the wins they also improved their overall

‘ record to 7-7.

5- Senior Allison Harvey led the Generals with wins
in the 500 and 1,000-yard freestyle events. Sopho-

C

” C
   rip-On.
 Amsterdam Barcelona
 Berlin Brussels

Dublin London Madrid

Paris Rome

UNBEATABL
PRICES!

PACKAGES INCLUDE:
*1 0 Student roundtrip airfa"r
0 Accommodations 1

1, 0 Airport transfers
" and Travel Card*

 0 Camera, document
organizer, discounts,
guidebooks, maps
and more

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   

‘Select cities only.

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team comes off a successful
2000 season in prime position to con-
tinue this trend in 2001.

The women only lost four seniors
from last year’s squad: their
goaltender, two attackers and one
defender. One of those lost attack
players, Katherine Riddle, was second
on the team in scoring. However, the
Generals return their leading scorer,
sophomore Leslie Bogart, who fin-
ished with 55 points.

The women were 8-5 overall last
year, and were 7-1 in the Old Do-

minion Athletic Conference. They
reached the conference semifinals
in the postseason tournament, but
lost a defensive battle to
Lynchburg, 8-4.

“I think we’re going to be great
this year,” said sophomore Laura Wil-
son, who ﬁnished third on the team
with 23 points in 2000. “We have a lot
of depth in the midﬁeld.”

Notable additions to the team in-
clude two freshmen goaltenders to
replace Girmy Jernigan, who gradu-
ated last year after ﬁnishing her ca-
reer second all—time in saves at W&L
with 505. Joanna Peiini and Annie
Tompkins will compete for the start-
ing goalie position this season.

“The incoming freshmen are really
good,” Wilson said. “We have a lot
of support through all the positions.”

Seniors Ellen Ritsch and Martha
Combrooks and junior Eloise Priest
are the captains for this year. Ritsch,
who plays attack, had 16 goals last

hes for success formula

W&L looks to build on
a successful year by
adding a deep and
talented freshman class

year. Combrooks and Priest will lead
from the defensive end.

Combrooks concurs with Wilson
about the strength of the freshmen.

“They’re going to make fantastic
additions to the team,” Combrooks
said. “We have a great balance of ex-
perience, skill and fresh players.”

The Generals are coached by Jan
Hathorn, who has run the program
since its inception in 1988. Laurie
Stagnitta, wife of men’s lacrosse
coach Jim Stagnitta, will also lend
her expertise.

W&L will begin their regular sea-
son on Feb. 17-18, when they travel
to North Carolina for the South of the
Border Tournament. They will play at
North Carolina and Duke against
other Division III teams.

“This will be a chance to test the
waters,” Combrooks said.

The Generals’ first home game will
be an ODAC match on March 10
against Randolph-Macon.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

OFFENSIVE HOLDING. Freshman 141-pounder Cory Little wrestles against Southern Virginia on
Wednesday. The Generals won the match, 26-15, to improve to 4-5-1 on the season.

Indoor track teams compete
in VMI Winter Relays

The Washington and Lee indoor track teams competed
in Lexington for the first time in 2001 at the VMI Winter

Relays on Saturday.

For the women’s squad, sophomore Burke Duncan

swims through

mores Blair Huffman and Kelli Austin continued their
dominance with two wins apiece. Huffman placed first
in the 200 backstroke and the 200 breaststroke, and
Austin won the 100 and 200 freestyle events. Fresh-
man K.C. Wilson contributed to the effort with a win

in the 200 butterfly.

The cards have been stacked against the Generals this
season. Huffman and Austin have had to shoulder most of
the burden for top times, as the team lost record-setting
swimmer Katie Kennedy and last year’s graduates Lauren

800 meters.

placed second in the 3,000 meters, followed by senior Jes-
sica Parrillo in third place. Freshman Lucy Frick recorded a
ﬁfth-place ﬁnish in the one-mile run.

Freshman Andy Schorr led the men’s team on the after-
noon, ﬁnishing ninth in the 3,000 meters and 10th in the

The Generals travel across the state on Saturday for

the Christopher Newport Invitational in Newport News.

turbulent times

Beckenhauer and Lezael Haynes.

Most of the top times this season are slower than last
season’s, although many of last season’s top times were
earned during the ODAC/Atlantic States Invitational.

The Generals are undefeated in the ODAC, and if

last season is any indication, they should do well at

money? OR

I Would you prefer a job that gives you
training in personal success, where
you can have fun in a stimulating and
family-like atmosphere, make a good
income, and spend the summer in the
mountains of Wyoming?

.-‘

SEl|IOllS:wHA1' mun or

SUMMER JOB WOULD YOII
I.||lE BEFORE YOU GO TO
WORK III THE “IIEAI.
WORLD?”

A job where you can make a lot of

the upcoming ODAC/Atlantic States Invitational.
They will look to repeat as champions when they re-
turn to the tournament as the Washington Holiday
begins on Feb. 16.

   
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   

Check out our staff web site at
wvvw.coolworks.comIabara
Or call us at 303-838-1950
to set up an interview.

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT
10 student apartments
available June I, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

8 Enjoy country living at its finest.
Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.

Please call Tim Wilhelm
at 540-463-6575 or 540-463-2868.

 

 

PAGE 8

As always, over 90
percent fact free

@112 ‘itltng-tum lﬂlrt

LASTWORD

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

-5.

Point vs. Unsubstantiated Point

Everyone needs political correctness

By Alf

INTERPLANETARY M OOCH

The last time I turned on the television, I
came across the show South Park I was
both shocked and offended by the amount
of ﬁlth that was present. I was mentally,

physically, and emotionally assaulted by
images of intolerance towards womyn,
birds, Mother Earth, and vegetarians. I
quickly ran to my life-partner and ACLU
lawyer, Serinooka Rainbow Hugger, who
comforted me with a hot glass of
environmentally friendly tea and several
poems from Jewel ’s book, A Night Without
Armor: Poems. Listening to Jewel ’s wistful,
lyrical musings of womynhood pulled me
back up from the depths of chauvinistic rancor
that popular culture used to batter me.
I grabbed onto my Mayan beads and
said a quick prayer to Shesus Christ, and
then looked deep into Serinooka’s eyes and
said, “I feel deeply hurt and oﬂended by
that program. My inner-womyn is telling
me that we must sue the evil purveyor of
ﬁlth on television to compensate me for the
irreparable harm it has done. Besides, we
need a new waterfall in the Zen Garden.”

If you truly believed that this was what
the ferninst movement and the movement
to support political correctness was all
about, then you better check yourself be-
fore you riggity wreck yourself. Political
correctness is about ensuring the rights of
every person to live and work in an envi-
ronment that is ergonomically and emotion-
ally healthy. ? '

For years, those who have had the
money and power have had the ability to
adjudicate what was appropriate and what
was inappropriate no matter what the con-
sequences were for those who had to live
under their rules. Now that our voices are
starting to be heard, we are portrayed as
outcasts and radicals who don’t care about
rights, laws, or freedom of expression.

Being an alien, I have a unique perspec-
tive on the situation currently facing our

 

www.tvshows.main.de '

country. Due to the intolerance of most
Americans, I have had to live my life solely
within the confines of a suburban house-
hold. I have had to sleep in a pallet made
of fuzzy blankets, eat bland and unwhole—
some foods like Cream of Wheat, and re-
main at the whim of a rniddle—class family
that is just barely scraping by.

My people mastered the intricacies of
space travel and have advanced far beyond
the primitive needs of clothing and I’m
stuck here in this suburbanite hell with noth-
ing better to do than watch Oprah. If any-
one truly deserves political and social
equality, it’s me. But until humans have
advanced to the level where they can ac-.

cept everyone in their own species, how

can they hope to accept me?

Political correctness is not about point-
ing fingers and suing people for your own
proﬁt, well at least not wholely, it is about
giving every person the dignity and respect
they deserve, be they African American,
Anglo American, Asian American, Native
American, Indian-American, Inuit American,
Paciﬁc American, or some strange combi-
nation of all of the above. Maybe if every-
one tries a bit harder and shuts up a bit
more, people can ﬁnd it in their hearts to
love a little brown-furred alien like me.

The case against politcal correctness

By Bryan Early

LAST WORD EDITOR

In the last 10 years, our country has
been assaulted by a vileness so vicious
that it threatens the very fabric of our soci-
ety. What is this scourge? None other than
the policy of political correctness.

The policy of political correctness was
formed out of an attempt to enforce toler-
ance and universal acceptance of diver-
sity. In reality, it attempted to sterilize free-
dom of thought and action and homog-
enize public opinion.

It is not the govemment’s job to keep
its citizens from being mentally challenged
or remove all discomfort they might feel at
interacting with other citizens who are very
much their equal. One might not agree with
everything a person says or does, but that
does not give that person the right to stop
the other person from speaking. The First
Amendment gives people the right to hold
and voice their own personal opinions.

The most ludicrous principal behind the
policy of political correctness, is that when
one changes his or her phrasing from “I
disagree with your statement” to “I am of-
fended by your statement,” that person is

(true or untrue) would bring. It gave rise to
the plethora of sexual harassment, discrimi-
nation, and intolerance legal suits that
marked the ’90s. All of a sudden, the work-
place was laid under seige by groups of radi-
cal leftists and moochers whose very jobs
became to look for infractions on the part of
employers. Soon, courts were handing out
multi-million dollar settlements for bosses
complimenting female employeees on look-
ing nice and workers having Howard Stern
on the radio.

One has to wonder where the line will be

drawn. The approval of John Ashcroft to I

the position of Attorney General is a poi-
gnant example of political correctness at
work. While Ashcroft is perhaps not the
most liberal fellow in the world, his tough
stances on abortion and crime, coupled with
the actions he took to prevent the approval
of Ronnie White to the Federal Circuit Court,
became a political liability for him. He was
accused of being both sexist and racist, two
terms that strangely gained immense popu-
larity with the rise of political correctness.
Of what was Ashcroft truly guilty? Noth-
ing. Not a single group that opposed
Ashcroft’s nomination could prove or even
make a legitimate case any cause to reject his

automatically entitled nominaﬁom The battle
to receive some sort C ‘ W35 f°l1ghtWi"-h hints»
of compensation from _ 311033110115» and Vague
the offending  I   I     Of
Just What does it outside without feeling‘ like Whf:‘th§°l‘)‘1db°d":“Y
mean to be offended? - - - T5 9 903"“ CY
I am being held under serge.
According to ha.“ I10 T331 gT°““dS-
Webster ’s Dictionary, — R0" Diddlemyer I Ashcroft 53011313’

it means, “to irritate or
vex a person’s mind
or feelings.” Thus,'anything that chal-
lenges the thoughts, conceptions, or emo-
tional state can be construed as being of-
fensive. And who, if anybody, can objec-
tively read the complainant’s mindset?
The policy of political correctness has
ensured that whoever yells and complains
the loudest will be rewarded just to pre-
vent the negative PR that such accusations

,3) adheres to his beliefs

and is not intimidated
into silence due to fear over what others might
think or say. It is despicable to ﬁght his nomi-
nation on the basis that some individuals claim
to have read into the motives behind his ac-
tions and are offended by them.

Since its inception, political correctness
has attempted to smother and destroy the
very rights of the citizens that it was created
to defend.

GREAT MOMENTS IN
COMMUNIST HISTORY

 

Russian soldiers marched around their sparsely
populated and commerically inhabited country-
side to intimidate poor peasants into doing the
right thing for the greater good of all.

QQOOQQOO

 

t%¢M.....te..—t07 ~ 

Ask the Question Marquis is
a sporadically produced I
advice column, because proper

loving takes time. It is to be

Marquis are his alone and are
in no way to be construed as
representative of his sponsor,

Questia, you American pigs.

www.questia.com

Also, what are sunglasses?

Option 2. You can challenge her to a duel.

  Ask the Question Marquis

Q: Dear Question Marquis: My girlfriend seems distant lately. And I can’t get her to take oﬂ her sunglasses. I wonder
if shes seeing someone else. l/Vhat should I say to her? — Paul in Dallas

A: Ah, mon ami. I think I can help you with this. Your female is probably feeling that you spend more time with the '
library than with her delicate, sensuous frame. (I am making the assumptions about her, but for your sake, I hope that
I am right, you know?) But you are having many of the research papers, correct? So you have two options to send you
on the path toward a satisfactory loving scenario. ~- '

Option 1. When you are writing the research papers, you can save time by going to questia.com. Listen,
this is brand new. You can skip all of the tedious working, because the ﬁ1ll text of the books and journal articles is all
online. Search for the keywords, highlight the text. Also, you are not going to believe this, .but if you want to quote
something, you just click a button and Questia puts it in your paper, footnotes it, and formats the bibliography auto-
matically. And right now you can get two days* of Questia free. So try it. When your girlfriend sees how much better
your papers become and how much more time you have for her, she will be looking at you with her naked eyes that
seem to say, “Hallo. I like you. Much, much more than I like paté de fois gras,” or whatever it is these girls like now.

read with a silly French accent.

The views ofthe Question

Challenge the pig to a duel.”

“It is the joke"of an imbecile who longs to have my knowledge and looks.

 

— Michelle in Boston

Q: Dear Question Marquis: My friend sent me this photo. I don’t get  Is it a joke, or is it some deeper commentary
on the effect of technology on culture? — Cosmo in Grand Rapids '

c A: It is the joke of an imbecile who longs to have my knowledge and looks. Challenge the pig to a duel.

Q: Dear Question Marquis: How come you know about computers and dot. coms, but you’ve never heard of sunglasses?

A: Oh, sunglasses. Of course I know sunglasses. I thought you said “St. Molasses!’ I am not familiar with that one. The
patron saint of sorghum? What?

*Free offer expires and is limited to first-time subscribers. Internet access and
acceptance of online Subscriber Agreement required. See www.questia.com for
details. ©2001 Questia Media, Inc. Questia, the Questia logotype, “Better Papers.

Fasten”, the Question Marquis, the Question Marquis signature, and the Question
Marquis question mark symbol are service marks of Questia Media, Inc.

que

stﬂa

Better Papers. Faster?‘

‘I

F .

 

