@112 iliing-tum {ﬂirt

  EWS

Democrat predicts GOP victory.

Connelly said.

Junior politics major Susan Ruge, a Republican, said
that she was impressed by the impartiality of Hart’s
lecture.

“He took great pains to be very neutral. . . that he‘!
says Bush will win says a lot about how fair [his analy-
sis] was,” Ruge said. _.

Sophomore Skye Justice, treasurer of the Young
Democrats, said he liked the way Hart targeted the‘
strengths and weaknesses of both candidates and their
respective platforms.

“He made a good point about how both candidates
are gearing their strategies toward the undecided voter
who probably doesn’t care enough to be inﬂuenced,”
Justice said.

Justice also said the lecture was highly interesting
in addition to being informative.

“He had pretty much the entire audience on the edge,
of their seats,” he said.

 

PAGE 2 OCTOBER 23, zooq

Experienced pollster
scrutinizes Bush/Gore
presidential campaign

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

George Bush will squeak by Al Gore in the upcom- '
ing presidential election, Democratic pollster Peter Hart
said in his Wednesday night Lecture in Lee Chapel.

Hart, who has over 30 years experience in polling
and has worked for 40 U.S. senators and 30 state gov-
ernors, came as the second lecturer in a four-part se-
ries on Election 2000, a jointly-sponsored effort by Con-
tact and the William Lyne Wilson Politics Department
Fund. He said that despite the dead—even tallies in the
popular vote, Bush has more secure electoral votes.

Hart said that Bush will not win because of his sub-
stance, but because voters are more comfortable with
his style of framing issues with generalities instead of

Junior Sam Langholz, vice—chair of the Contact Com-
mittee, said that Hart’s lecture was a success for both
Contact and the politics department.

, “Hart provided an engaging analysis of the general”
mood of the nation. We were fortunate to be able to bring
such a prominent pollster to campus,” Langholz said.

statistics, like Gore.

“Al Gore has the tougher job at this point be-
cause he lost the commanding lead he held a year
ago,” he said.

According to Hart, both candidates have spent too
much time discussing the tax cut issue.

“That issue is nowhere near the top of most voters’
priorities,” he said. Hart also said that, despite keeping
a low profile during the campaign, Bill Clinton is the
most deciding factor. According to polls conducted
by Hart’s ﬁrm, 76 percent of Clinton’s supporters also
support Gore, while 88 percent of his detractors favor
Bush. Of voters undecided on the Clinton Presidency,
55 percent favor Bush.

Gore has to decide to what extent he wants to use
the president, Hart said, because although he galva-
nizes the Democrats’ base better than anybody else,
he alienates swing voters, and both groups are critical
for a Gore win. »

“Bill Clinton is both his greatest asset and his great-
est problem,” he said.

Hart also said that while Gore has a chance of win-
ning, it will not be of his own merit.

“If Gore wins, he’ll owe it all to Lieberman. . .his
campaign was in danger of dying when he made that
choice,” he said.

Politics Professor Bill Connelly said he thought that
Hart’s lecture was very insightful.

“He effectively explained why Al Gore has not been
able to close the deal with the American voter even
though peace, prosperity and an election run on Demo-
cratic issues should all be helping the vice president,”

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
VOTE EARLY, VOTE OFTEN. Freshman Meghan Hayde casts a ballot at a table manned by Sophomore
Jane Ledlie. The new class officers are: Freshman Class President Ansel Sanders, Freshman Class
Vice President Noah Rhodes, Freshman SJC Representative Matt Lambert, Sophomore Class
President Elliott Kyle, Sophomore Class Vice President Karl Kuersteiner, Junior Class President
Grant Dickson, Junior Class Vice President Charlie Curroccio, Senior Class President Liz Borges,
and Senior Class Vice President Katie Baldwin. The Freshman EC Representative has not yet
been announced.

Second issue of She Says to be published

Women’s Forum Chair Junior Darlene Mitrano said.

The group plans an issue similar to last year’s debut.
Vice Chair Junior Amanda Adams said that she liked the
portrayal of women in last year’s issue.

“I think last year’s She Says was great because it
displayed women in so many different roles and ways,”
Adams said.

According to Mitrano, Women’s Forum hopes to
publish twice, once after Thanksgiving and again dur-
ing winter term, as opposed to last year’s sole issue.

To promote the publication and student participation,
members of the Women’s Forum have visited freshman
girls’ halls and sorority chapter meetings asking women
to submit original work. Mitrano says that publication’s
uniqueness can help educate the student body. 4, - ’ '

“I think that students can beneﬁt from this publica- ‘
tion in that they can get to know the different opinions
and different people’s work,” Mitrano said. “Last year,
for the most part, we had positive feedback about the
publication, so we decided to continue it this year. I
think people were pleased with last year’s product for
the most part; however, we did hear some jokes about
the content.”

Women’s Forum is a student organization in which
women students and faculty come together to benefit
women on campus by promoting awareness and issues
that affect the W&L community. Women founded this
organization in 1985 when the school first accepted fe-
male students.

Women’s Forum is also organizing a student/faculty
dinner on Oct. 24. Members of Women’s Forum invite
students and faculty of the W&L community to meet
each other in an informal setting.

The dinner is from 5:30-7:00 p.m. in the Gaines
Gatehouse.

“The purpose of the dinner is to get women stu-
dents acquainted with the women faculty on campus,”
Mitrano said. “So many W&L professors are men that
it’s hard for women students and faculty to become
acquainted with one another.” " ‘

Students interested in Women’s Forum or She Says
should contact Mitrano at 463-9343 or Associate Dean
of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont at extension 8750.

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Women’s Forum hopes to at-
tract visibility and submissions with a second edition of She
Says, a literary publication celebrating women on campus.

The publication is accepting works by or about women
including prose, poetry, artwork or photography until Nov. 1.

“We created this publication last year to put something out
there that would show women have a voice on this campus,”

photo by Lisa Lin/Photo Edito

BY ma NUMBERS. Democratic pollster Peter Hart
asserts his opinion on the upcoming election.

  

 
   

17 South Main Street, Lexington 4
  464-3645 ,

  open 10 am -8 pmlmonday-Saturday  
  12-5 pm Sunday I

STUDENT APPRECIATION DA l

  FRIDAY NOV. 3

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

SHOWING OFF SHE SAYS. Women’s Forum Chair
Darlene Mitrano displays last spring’s She
Says issue.

CONCERT

FROM PAGE 1 ‘

ton to Salem, Oregon. The only emer-
gency shelter for battered women in
the Rockbridge area, Lisa’s House,
along with Project Horizon, has

worked with 103 sexual assault and 7

domestic violence cases and shel-
tered 28 people in the last three
months.

“There’s a need for the shelter,”
Elrod said. “There’s no doubt about
that.”

Elrod believes that because the
Rockbridge area is such an open com-
munity, many people do not believe

domestic violence occurs.

‘‘It makes more people aware that
these “issues exist,” Project Horizon
Executive Director Elizabeth Pharr
said. “Having the shelter makes our
work more symbolized.”

Pharr found that people were un-
aware of the range of Project Horizon’s
services. In addition to shelter, the
agency provides legal advocacy, indi-
vidual counseling, a 24-hour hotline,
and access to support groups free of
charge to victims of domestic violence
and sexual assault. Project Horizon also

provides educational programs to
schools and civic groups.

The organization oversees the
Rockbridge Area Anti-Violence Coordi-
nating Council, which brings wide-rang-
ing groups dedicated to reducing and
preventing violence in the community.

“We are honored to be recognized.
. .and are very grateful for the tremen-
dous help,” Pharr said.

The concert begins at 8 p.m. and

tickets are $5 at the door.
“I’m deﬁnitely going to be there,”
Pharr said.

10% or: ENTIRE srocnr
students must present valid school in.
*exclutles specially marked items.

  MlDlllGllT SALE!

    
 

   am 12:00am 
   FORTHEGRAIIDRELEASE or   

    "2’8NEWAlBUM     
cm LEAVE snumr  

 
  

 

Experienced Babysitter
Needed for 4-month-old.
4 hours, once or twice a week.
1/2 mile from campus

call 463-3746

  

    
 

 

 

 OCTOBER 23, 2000



I

01112 4.-«mg-rum 133111

PINION

PAGE 3

0 Friendly tips for

Despite the great diversity here at W&L, there remains

,‘ one common thread lacing the community together, a
' pasttime that could very well surpass tailgating in the

-0 following

degree of tradition it implies: Procrastinating outside the
Co-op, the Cooperation Facility of Glory, as it should be

_, called. The

Northerrrefs Exposure
Kris Polljna ‘03

“are 12 alter-
‘,nate activi-
l ties to pre-

’ tending to

V } do work once sucked into the void. (Dave Letterman has
“A cornered the market on the Top 10. 11 doesn’t make enough

 impact because it’s two ones, and 13 seemed too cliché.)

1 .) Start simple — Smoke. If you’ve mastered this, you
might want to go the extra mile and connect those bendy
straws to make a really long cigarette. Just stick the straws
together at the ends and put the cigarette at the very end.

"O It’s very chic.

2.) Breakfast time poll. Last year I asserted that capril

P 5' pirate pants are the most miserable piece of clothing to be

' popularized. Ever. However, upon facing opposition, my

‘ colleagues and I conducted a breakfast time poll, limited

ljto guys, because girls don’t wear clothes for female ap-
“ proval. There was an overwhelming negative response.

~.,;~;g (One gentleman went so far as to throw his hands in the

2»

ti’  and stormed off in a huff, grunting, “I don’t even want

        
 

 talk about it.”) p
 3.) Sell tickets to a Greek philanthropy project such as
 “planting dandelions for deaf people.

.\ ‘v
,

4.) Play the compliment game. One of the greatest
games ever invented, it simply requires complimenting
everyone who walks through the doors of the Co-op.
“Hey, nice shirt. Orange is my favorite color.” “Your hair

' ,looks nice today, you should always wear it up.” Just do

 
  

4  fries!”

it sincerely, or the compliment receiver will never wear

*5. ‘orange again, or ever put her hair up. (There’s no sar-
' Q casm in this suggestion. It’s really a nice game to play.)

5 .) Count how many times ticket sellers will shout “It’s
for a good cause!” Even better, when faced with no re-

.1 sponse: “You can swipe it home!”

%Work hard for the money...at Letitia Pate

“We need more chicken fingers!”

“Someone wants a to-go box!”

“Real eggs in the front, eggbeaters in the back.”
“OUCH! I just burned my hand switching out the waffle

Those are just some of the many words that pass the
‘ lips of the proud Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall workers.
When I say “proud” workers, I mean it.
I guess I should begin with a personal bit about how I
became involved with the D—Hall . . .

It all started my freshman year during conditioning for
__,soccer. Every day without fail I would head over to that
, beautiful brick building for my twice—daily dose of pasta

with marinara. Some days I would have rotini, other days
‘I would have spaghetti. Ahh, those were the days.

I think after about _l00 or so servings of pasta with

marinara I had a breakdown. My body would not accept

uote of the Week:

244

.I

Is that a student? She
really scares me.

— Anonymous male freshman

Q - -
@112 ﬂung-tum lﬂlrt
Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Jessica Jones
Michael Crittenden

News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Contributing Editors

Max Smith
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Photographers Colin Mitchell
Mary Guy
Martha Edwards
Graphics Monica Schoenthaler
 Online Editor Ginger Phillips

Business Manager Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
« Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications
Board elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
. in that week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right
_ to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
~ Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

wasting time at theCo-op

“toe? s.rs+;.«.--to 

  
 
  

“

.. "NICE HA1’ K.

-at/94.-$.24

“’°|4 SH°uu>
WEA K if u?
Mocﬁ OFTEN-

6.) Complain about that big econ test.

7.) Loudly whine you don’t have a date for (ﬁll in date
function) and hope Mr./Mrs. Wonderful will stride up and
gallantly yet demurely ask, “Well, if you’re not going with
anyone, and I’m not going with anyone. . .”

8.) Buy Stewart’s Root Beer and pretend to be a badass
drinking beer outside the Co—op.

9.) Jump off the top of the Co—op with an umbrella, see
if the umbrella prevents injury, and tell onlookers it’s the
basis for your senior physics thesis.

10.) Take note of person—you-hooked—up-with—last—
r1ight—when-you—were-really—drunk’s avoidance of eye con-
tact. Call him/her over anyway, and tell him/her your par-

any more._I don’t mean any more pasta, I mean any more
D-Hall. It’s not due to the food. It was because I took my
eating habits to the extreme.

I still visited the D-Hall for breakfast with friends to
relax and catch up on the previous day’s gossip, but could
eat there no more. How I cherished those comfortable
wooden chairs that allowed

ents want to meet him on Parents’ Weekend, and take
both of you out to dinner. Inwardly laugh at hookup—ee’s
violent discomfort.

11.) Laugh at people who trip on the absence of stair
right before the Co-op doors. The stair that used to be
there. Write a poem about it.

12.) Bring arbitrary household appliances to Co-op
(e.g. irons, mops, coffee filters, oven mitts, hammers, nails).
Surround yourself with them. Glare at people who give
your perplexed looks.

And you thought there was nothing to do but pretend
to work. You’re wrong again. I win. 0

school year. I know it’s kind of weird. Afterall, why would
a senior want to get a job during the last year of college?
It takes time away from “senior duties” at the Pahns. It
slows down the game of eating at every food locale in
B.V. because meal time is busy. It makes you smell like
food (not a popular scent to the fellas). It forces you to
spend time with freshmen. None of these are

for the classic girl-crossed-  Fdltor bonuses. _
legs, guy-“giving-it-some _ . But I still don’t regret working in the D—Hall.
space,” and Indian style po- Stephanie Bianco. '01 I’ve made some new friends, can identify.

sitions. .

Anyway, I took a little time out fromLetitia, but there
was lingering emptiness.

One day, a friend started working there. Then another
did. And then another. Pretty soon, the curiosity got the
better part of me. Igot a job as aline worker at the Dining Hall.

My little adventure began the second week of this

Letter to the Editor

all of the entree items at the D—Hall, and no

longer get queasy at the thought of downing a plate of
good ol’ rotini with marinara.

Hey —— where else can you jam to music of your choice,

at the volume of your choice, while exchanging funny

stories from the week with your friends? Sometimes I ‘

wonder how this is a paying job.

Gay marriage
widely accepted

Dear Editor,

In the interests of journalistic in-
tegrity, I feel the need to comment on
the October 9, 2000 editorial in the
Ring—tum Phi: “Three Cheers for Ver-
mont and democracy” by Brett Kirwan.

Vermont is not “the only place in
the world where [homosexuals] can get
‘C.U.ed’ [civil unionized?]-.” Accord-
ing to The Lambda Legal Defense and
Education Fund, as of January 1999:
Denmark, Greenland, Finland, Iceland,
Norway, The Netherlands, and Swe-
den had “registered partnerships” for
some sarne-sex couples. Slovenia and
The Czech Republic were expected to
follow suit. Belgium, France, Germany,
Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain, and Swit-
zerland were considering enacting simi-
lar laws and sarne-sex common-law
marriage was recognized in Hungary.
Meanwhile, the’Canadia'n courts are in
the process of including civil-union or

marriage for same—sex couples. Mr.
Kirwan, like many Americans, forgets
that there are other countries beyond
our borders.

Mr. Kirwan states “[the Vermont
civil-union law] has been considered
totally unacceptable by most of its
citizens.” He then fails to produce
any evdience for this statement. He
also informs us that the Vermont
Supreme Court “completely ignored
all constitutional checks and bal-
ances requiring that the judiciary
merely interpret laws, not create
them.” I take from this assertion that
he believes himself an expert on le-
gal precedence in Vermont. An edi-
torial is an opinion, but it carmot be
without some proof, if the writer ex-
pects to win over his or her audi-
ence. Mr. Kirwan writes with the
same regard for facts as did the jour-
nalists of the old Soviet newspapers.

The real argument comes down
down to whether or not the courts
have the right to pressure the legis-
lature or the executive to act. Kirwan
suggests majority opinion is on his

side, believing courts should not in-
fluence through their decisions,
though, again, he provides scant
proof. In the real world of laws and
politics things are never so clear-cut.
As Otto von Bismark said: “Ifyou like
laws and sausages, you should never
watch either one being made.”

I will agree that Mr. Kirwan was
perhaps correct when he suggested
in a previous editorial that Texas
should secede from the Union. Then
he and other pro—gun,. anti—gay right-
wingers could create The Texas Fun-
damentalist Christian Republic built
along the lines of Iran, complete with
clerical justice, public executions,
veiled women, wholesale intolerance
and — as a bonus — OPEC member-
ship. With all the oil and ﬁrearms al-
ready in Texas, the new cowboy re-
public might quickly become spectacu-
larly successful. Just imagine it: One
Republic, under God-doh, witl1outlib—
ertines and with injustice for all.
Sincerely,

David Ross Cobb
Class of ’87

y Christine Metzger

TALKback: Whyjdid you come back this weekend?

 

“For the chapter presidents’
conference and to see a band.”
-Andrew Caruthers ’87

“To have fun with old friends.”
-Eric Turner ’87

 

kids from my classes.”

-Roy Burns ’99

 

“To see old friends and a lot of

  

“I love W&L! I’m interested in
setting up an alumni chapter in
South Georgia.”

-Scott Moms ’99

 

 

PAGE 4

O

Ellie ilttng-tum Iﬂlit

PINION

The immorality of big government

This year’s election, contrary to the
seemingly endless parade of whining
“undecided” voters, presents each
voter with a

help French immigrants, James Madi-
son wrote in his veto, ‘‘I cannot under-
take to lay my ﬁnger on that article of

clear and well-
defined choice.
As Governor

 

Bush, not so
eloquently but adequately, described
in each debate, a vote for him is a
vote for a smaller, less intrusive fed-
eral government that trusts people,
whereas a vote for the vice-perpetra-
tor is a vote for hugely increased fed-
eral spending, costly new entitle-
ments, and a government committed
to anti-liberty paternalism.

Now, besides the fact that Al Gore,
in an effort to address each of his
dozen or so “first priorities,” has pro-
posed three times more spending than
Bill Clinton and would balloon the bu-
reaucracy like no one since LBJ, the
government he envisions, one that
spends most of its energy redistribut-

V ing wealth, is terribly immoral.

The Founding Fathers would be
appalled at what Americans have
come to expect their government to
do. Since Wilson and FDR brought
the blight of socialism to the fruited
plains, the nation has been trading
its liberty for security.

We now expect that the federal gov-
ernment will manage our retirement
funds, manage our health insurance,
pay for our children’s school lunches,
ﬁnance our college education, subsi-
dize crops that the market won’t sup-
port, and send us checks if we get in-
jured on the job, lose our job, or just
don’t want to get one. Madison and
the boys in Philadelphia didn’t em-
power the Congress to establish any-
thing even approaching the benevo-
lent programs we “enjoy” today. Not
a single entitlement is mentioned in the
Constitution.

For 150 years or so, presidents were
careful to limit the government’s in-
volvement in what should be a private
matter. In fact, when asked to approve
a bill which appropriated $15,000 to

the Constitu-

. tion which

Right side of the aisle granted a right
Brett T. Kiiwan ’04 *0 COHSTCSS Of
expending, on

objects of benevolence, the money of
their constituents.”

Years later, in 1887, Grover Cleve-
land expressed his disapproval for a bill
to assist drought-stricken counties in
Texas by writing, “I feel obliged to with-
hold my approval of the plan to indulge
in benevolent and charitable sentiment
through the appropriation of public
funds. . . I find no warrant for such an
appropriation in the Const 

1

HOMECOMING 2000

i

 

   
      

By Shelley Meyer

STA FF WRITER

Out with the new, in with the old. UVA has its Wahoos,
Auburn has its plainsmen, and Washington and Lee has its
minks.

This Homecoming, the Alumni Association tried to bring
back the lore of the W&L minks. Satiirday’s Alumni Lun-

( cheon was a “Minks Rally,” and the banner trophy has a
stuffed mink in the middle.

“A lot of students don’t know that W&L students used
to be referred to as Minks,” Chris Edwards ’99, Assistant
Alumni Director of oriline communications, said. “It’s a piece

“ of W&L lore I’d hate to be lost.”

According to local legends, the Generals acquired the
nickname from VMI cadets. Apparently, when the “rats”
had to go in for the night, the W&L men would steal their

3‘ dates, becoming “thieves in the night.”

Bringing back this tradition is one of the many changes
that were made this Homecoming. According to Edwards,
over the past five years, Homecoming festivities have
changed tremendously.

7 Rob Mish ’76, Director of Alumni Programs, who grew up
in Lexington, remembers Homecornings from when he was a
little boy. The fraternity houses would decorate their whole
facades.

e “[It was] almost like making stationery floats,” Mish
said. “That’s what I remember from my childhood days.”

“'Ihere used to be a parade,” Edwards said. “[We] lost it Fall
[of] ’96. Instead of ﬂoats, [we now] have banners in the D—Hall.”

Freshmen vote on three banners — the funniest, most

‘~ creative, and best overall. The winner receives the Mink
Trophy during halftime festivities.

The Homecoming Court activities also differed. The big-

, gest difference for the ’60-’ 80 alums was the absence of old

e Keith Shillington, a cherriistry professor given the honor of
armually kissing the Homecoming Queen. According to
Rob Mish ’76, Director of Alumni Programs, Shillington
was one of the most eccentric professors on campus.

“It was a dubious honor,” Edwards said. “You got to be

.1 Queen, but you had to kiss Shillington.”

Another change for the younger alums and current stu-
dents was the delivery of the envelope containing the

e Queen and King results. The past several Homecornings, a
skydiver delivered the ballot. Edwards said that it had lost
spontaneity, so instead the King and Queen were whisked
away in the “Gorgeous Darlin’” hot air balloon. _

‘ The luncheon for the alumni was given on the old base— A _ photos by Emily games and Lisa Lin

I ballgyellrg :¥1hll6;1ltl<’:tt’E:iilgat6tWaS at :he: Ruin: ” Ed d HOMECOMING 2000 EVENTS. Hot air balloon rides and tailgating (top left); View of the Ruins from
6 011g 1 CF63 C 3. 11621 3. H105 BIC, W211‘ S . _ - ~ - -
Said. “Students at tailgate, alums at [the]I1)unche0n.,, the. balloon (top right), Homec.om1ng.Queen Senior Nicole_Hartley. and Escort Senior Fred]
Thehmcheonwashe1df0rtheFiVeStaIGeneralS andthe Heiser s celebratory balloon ride (middle left); Crazed fans eheering the Generals footbal

duster Students The Cluster consists of graduates from the team on to victory (middle right); Homecoming banners on display at the game (above); and
past four years, The inclusion of these graduates is to «keep Junior Tiffany Friedel-accepting the trophy for Best Overall Banner for Chi Omega (left).

them in touch with the school until the 5th year reunion.” T h

8

Edwards said in the past, most of the events were tar-
geted towards the Five Star Generals and nothing was re- -~ _..'.~, x .
Fri

   

i

§’?vV_7§7_S--G3.Z€‘t.'-B

-: -. \'—§_;,_-g:«'.-

   

   

   

ally tailored for the clusters.
1. Tom Lovell, AssistantDirector of Homecoming and Reunions,
was responsible for many of the new events for the clusters.

“Tom came in late June ’99, reevaluated Homecoming
and the events,” Edwards said.

Friday was packed with events for the recent graduates. Car-
bon Leaf, a band from Richmond, played at the Ruins while
there was Virginia Wine Tasting and later a barbeque dimer.

“We wanted to provide a full afternoon for the cluster
alumni,” Edwards said.

4 Yet another big ‘change revolved around the football game.

“Football is kind of a non-issue — this year it’s a big deal,”
Edwards said.

Not only is the football team doing well, this is the first
Homecoming to have cheerleaders. “Change is a four letter

‘ word at W&L,” Edwards said. “Opinions will be divided.
People will deﬁnitely be curious and interested to see how
[cheerleaders] add to the atmosphere of the game and the
whole weekend.”

e , Homecoming weekend also has other events going on. Every
year, it is the weekend that the Alumni Board meets. Also, every
three years, there is a Chapter Presidents’ Conference.

“Usually this weekend is a little more tame than reunion,”
Edwards said. “[It is the] first weekend campus is inun-

‘ dated with people.”

“People think of this place as home,” Mish said. “Our
alumni feel so passionately about this place. . . they feel like
they own this place.”

.2 ~~ .

      

109 SOUTH JEFFERSON STREET LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TEL: 540-463-3116 FAX: 540-463-3171
www.n-gprintshop.com

XEROX copy PRICES

81/2 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond
1-500 $0.10 per copy
501-1000 $0.09 per copy
1001-2000 $0.08 per copy
Over 2001 $0.01 per copy

11 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond
1-500 $0.20 per copy
501-1000 $0.18 per copy.
1001-2000 $0.16 per copy
Over 2001 $0.14 per copy

Two sided copies go at two times (2x) the rate.
Paper ‘other than white 20 lb. goes at copy price + paper cost.
BINDERY WORK
Minimum $5.00 or $40.00 per hour

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 Bing-tum lﬂlrt

PORTS

OCTOBER 23, 2000

W&L escapes Sewanee rally

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Callitthe auraofahomecoming game.

Washington and Lee snapped a
two-game losing streak, jumping out
to a 20-2 halftime lead and holding off
a late Sewanee rally for a 27-24 win
Saturday.

Senior Marc Watson rushed for
262 yards and a pair of touchdowns,
giving him an even 1000 yards rush-
ing for the season. The tailback came
off a record-setting performance the
previous week in the Generals’ 45-28
loss to Hampden-Sydney.

Watson set W&L records with 281
rushing and 382 all—purpose yards against
the Tigers. However, 87 penalty yards and
three tumovers — two of which resulted
in Hampden-Sydney touchdowns —
helped the Tigers to an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference win.

The Generals’ defense prevented
Sewanee (5-3) from reaching the end
zone for more than three quarters of
Saturday’s contest. However, an early
safety, a fumble recovery in the Gen-
erals’ end zone, and a 71-yard inter-
ception return for a touchdown re-
sulted in 17 of the Tigers’ 24 points.

“It’s probably one of the most frus-
trating things ever, knowing that the

defense is doing the job and shutting
them down,” said junior defensive
end Jeff Bahl, who ﬁnished with 11
tackles and two fumble recoveries.
“But that’s the way football is. There
are some ups and downs, and the
ball’s going to get fumbled every once
in a while. Unfortunately, today it hap-
pened at inopportune times.”

Nevertheless, the Generals (5-2)
managedpto escape with the narrow
victory against Sewanee. Sophomore
quarterback Bobby Littlehale coun-
tered his interception with 133 yards
and a touchdown in the air, and class-
mate Davis White caught five passes
for 44 yards and a score. M

“We had a two-garne slide there, and
we had lost some conﬁdence,” W&L
head coach Frank Miriello said. “They
were playing with some conﬁdence
early in the season, and we had to get
that back. That was the focus this week,
and that’s exactly what they did.

“The defense started playing like I
know they can, and stopped the op-
tion game. I was very pleased with our
defensive preparation and game plan.”

Watson’s perfonnance against the
Tigers, who entered the game 11th in
Division III with 58.4 rushing yards
per game allowed, certainly aided the
Generals’ cause.

“I’ve got to hand it to my offensive
line again,” Watson said. “The front
four that Sewanee had will probably be
the best front four we’1l face all season
long. Those ﬁve guys and our fullbacks
were just opening holes all day.”

The Generals, 2-2 in ODAC com-
petition, return to the conference
schedule this week with a road game
against Bridgewater (6-1, 2-1). Bahl

photo by Lisa Lin/Photo Editor
BOUNCE OUTSIDE. Senior tailback Marc Watson evades two

Sewanee defenders in the Generals’ 27-24 homecoming win.

believes that the momentum from a
homecoming win will carry over
against the Eagles.

“We’re back on the train,” Bahl
said. “The bandwagon’s rolling again.
When we get that swagger going, we
honestly feel like we’re unstoppable,
and that no one can contain us. We’ve
got that back, and I look forward to
playing Bridgewater next week.”

Generals end regular season on igh note

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team extended its record to 10-
5, including an 8-3 mark in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference, with
three wins in four games over the past
two weeks.

The Generals shut out Hollins 6-0

on Oct. 11. Freshmen Fontaine '

Marcoux and Heather Coleman and
sophomore Jenny Thomas scored
within the first 20 minutes of the con-
test, and Colernan-added her second
goal later in the first half.

Marcoux and Junior Kate Bidwell
scored in the second half to give the
Generals a 6-0 lead, and Senior Lauren
Harris made two saves during the
game to earn her ﬁfth shutout of the
season. Thomas, Senior Liz Olsen,
Marcoux, and Freshman Susannah
Hewlett each had an assist.

The Generals traveled to Pitts-
burgh during Reading Days to play
Carnegie Mellon, which resulted in a
1-0 loss for W&L. Carnegie Mellon’s

Lauren Taylor scored the game’s only
goal with less than nine minutes re-
maining for the win. Harris made ﬁve
saves during the match.

The Generals returned home to
face Ferrum on Oct. 18, and won 5-1.
Bidwell scored the first goal in the
second half, assisted by Marcoux, but
Mary Jennette scored for Ferium to
tie the game three minutes later.

With 18 minutes left in the contest,
Bidwell assisted Marcoux for the Gen-
erals’ second goal, which would stand
as the game winner. Bidwell would
score another goal, and Sophomore
Ruth-Hill Yielding added two late tal-
lies to extend the lead to four goals.

The Generals edged Roanoke 1-0
on Saturday for homecoming. Lauren
Harris stopped all eight shots she
faced.

“The defense was incredible,” Jun-
ior Kristen Pranke said.

> The game remained scoreless un-
til the 78th minute of play. The Gener-
als played Roanoke evenly through-
out the first half, but eventually wore
down the Maroons. Bidwell scored off

    

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

CHANGING SEASONS. Senior Margaret-Hunter Turner dribbles
the ball downfield in the Generals’ 1-0, regular season-ending

win over Roanoke on Saturday.

an assist from Marcoux for the win.
“I’m very pleased and proud,”

coach Jan Hathom said. “I can’t say

enough about how well they played.”

The Generals are finished with
their regular season schedule, and will
proceed to the ODAC Tournament on
Oct. 24th.

Cross country teams place fourth in state meet

W&L sports roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams
both placed fourth out of nine teams
Oct. 14 in the Virginia State Division
HI meet at Christopher Newport Uni-
versity in Newport News.

Senior Jessica Parrillo won All-

oc1-oasn 23
OCTOBER 30

NOVEMBER 6
NOVEMBER 13
NOVEMBER 27
DECEMBER 4

coI=FEEpeo

TH

State honors with a fourth-place over-
all ﬁnish in the wo1nen’s meet at a time
of 19:04. Junior Gretchen Tencza
(20:10) placed 16th and senior
Kathleen Moroney (20:38) ﬁnished
23rd overall.

Freshman Andy Schorr finished
tenth overall in the men’s meet with a
time of 26:43, granting him All-State
honors as well. Junior Ken J ackman
and sophomore David Hicks ﬁnished
21st and 25th overall with respective

 

EVERY IVIONDAY 8:30 P.M. TO MIDNIGHT

THE LARRY KEEI_ EXPERIENCE
GHosT STORIES BY
PROFESSIONAL STORYTELLER/

TBA

 
   

HousE IVIOUNTAIN
ALEX WII_KINs
RING's END

  AT

p|eMusIc_:more

HQ

times of27:2l and 21 :33.

The Generals will host the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Cross Country
Championships at 1 1 :00 am. Saturday.

Generals. golf update

Washington and Lee finished 10th
of 14 teams in the Aubrey Apple Invi-
tational at the Salem Glen Country Club
in Winston—Salem, N .C., on Oct. 9-10.

Methodist College won the meet
with a combined score of 593 for the

two—day tournament. Medalist Chad
Collins shot a 145 for the victors.

Sophomore Chuck Green paced
the Generals with a 157, followed
closely by classmate Chip Campbell
at 159. Sophomore David Haase to-
taled a 161, Senior Ben Wilson turned
in a score of 167, and Junior Kyle Ulep
ﬁnished at 178.

Next, the Generals compete in the
Tom O’Bryant Invitational at Guilford
College on Oct. 30-31.

leyball win streak
reaches double digits

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee extended its
win streak to ten matches with a vic-
tory over Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference opponent Hollins on Saturday.

The Generals defeated Eastern Men-
nonite 15-12, 15-12, 11-15, 17-19, 15-l3on
Oct 10 before traveling to Baltimore for
the Goucher Invitational. Senior setter
Pam Saulsbury contributed 26 assists and
17 digs, and senior outside hitter Tori Hays
recorded 19 digs.

W&L then rolled over its opposi-
tion in Baltimore, failing to drop a game
in wins over Goucher, Mary Washing-
ton, Dickinson, and Mary Washington
again in the ﬁnals. Junior Lindsay

Ruckert received the tournament’s
most valuable player award, finishing
with 41 kills in four matches.

The team returned home and to
ODAC competition with a 15-0, 15-9,
15-1 win over Sweet Briar on Oct. 18.
Freshman Kristin Shelton led the team
with six successful attacks, also re-
cording two blocks and an ace. Se-
nior setter Katherine Kline recorded
12 assists and six aces.

The Generals’ win streak reached
double digits Saturday by way of a
15-4, 15-6, 15-6 victory against visit-
ing Hollins. Ruckert and Shelton led
W&L with 11 assists apiece, and
Saulsbury ﬁnished with 17 assists.

W&L (l7—5, 8-1 ODAC) will host
Roanoke at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday.

   

Upcoming events in General athletics...

Football

Sat. October 28 at Bridgewater 1:00 p.m.

Sat. November 4 Emory & Henry 1:00 p.m.

Sat. November 1 1 at Swarthmore 1:00 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country

Sat. October 28 ODAC Championships 11:00 am.

Sat. November 11 at NCAA Regional TBA

Sat. November 18 at NCAA Nationals TBA
Golf

October 30-31 at Tom O’Bryant Invite TBA
Riding

Fri. October 27 at James Madison TBA
Men’s Soccer

Wed. October 25 at Virginia Military Institute 3:30 p.m.

Sat. October 28 at Averett 3:00 p.m. '

October 3 1—November 4 ODAC Tournament TBA
Women’s Soccer

October 24-28 ODAC Tournament TBA
Men’s and Women’s Swimming

Sat. October 28 at Transylvania 1:00 p.m

Sat. , November 18 at Swarthmore 2:00 p.m

Sun. November 19 at Gettysburg 1:00 p.m
Volleyball

Tues. October 24 Roanoke 6:30 p.m

Fri. October 27 at Averett 8:00 p.m

Sat. October 28 Averett Tournament TBA

November 3-4 ODAC Tournament TBA
Wrestling

Sun. November 12 at VMI Keydet Invitational 10:00 am.

_ Whole Pigs - Hi

  Steve’s “Real”'BTBTQ. Catering

Specializing In A
ckory Smoked Ribs and B.B.Q

75 Beans Bottom_Rd., Lexington, VA

540-462-3769

   

‘fHave Cooker Will Travel”

 

 

 

OCTOBER 23, 2000

S

@112 ilttng-tum iﬁlrt

PORTS

 

PAGE 7

3

HOUSTON, WE HAVE ASTROTURF. The Washington and Lee club field hockey team celebrates a
goal in their 2-1 victory over Hollins on the new turf field Saturday.

_, Tennis teams ﬁnish fall season

Men’s soccer continues
record-setting trend

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team broke a
school record for wins in a season Saturday following a
string of victories over the previous two weeks.

The Generals defeated Eastern Mennonite 4-0 on Oct.
11. Freshman Philip Miller scored ﬁrst, assisted by senior
Jon Wilson. Miller scored
again in the second half off

goalkeeper Tim Foley made
four saves for the shutout.
The Generals then trav-
eled to New York for a non-
conference match against
Manhattanville College.
Manhattanville scored only

    

the game, Miller added to his scoring streak to give the
Generals the early lead.

Ten minutes into the second half, Crawford scored off
an assist from Wilson. Danny Almond put the game within
reach for Emory and Henry, scoring with 18 minutes left.
Four minutes later, freshman Jacob Stoehr assisted Murphy
for the Generals’ third goal, ensuring the Generals’ win.

The Generals returned home to face Bridgewater on Oct.
19 in another conference
game. Grimes and Murphy

4 assists from Wilson and scored two goals each, and
juniorAndrew Grirnes.Less senior goalkeeper Jordan
than one minute later, Wil— Ginsberg made two saves to
son and junior David shut out Bridgewater 4-0.
Kodack assisted senior Miller and Wilson each re-

“ Jacek Mucha for the Gener- corded two assists during
als’ third goal. the contest.

VV1th three minutes left in “We have good chem-
the game, sophomore Brad istry,” Grimes said. “We

‘ Murphy scored an unas- have fun playing together,

A sisted goal to provide the and that makes the offense
photo by Lisa Lwphow Editor final margin. Sophomore a lot better.”

The Generals set a new
record for wins in a season
in an overtime nail—biter
against St. Mary’s on Sat-
urday. In front of a crowd
gathered for both Home-

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer Corning and Senior day, the

. In doubles competition at the 2000 Rolex Nationals, threﬁ minutes into the game FREE FOR ALL Junk" David Kodack moves Generals played the
By Jeremy Franklln Hatley and Proko took home third place by defeating Ab_ when Nick Giacopelli as— the ball against 3 St. Mary’s defender in the Seahawks to a sizoreless tie
SPORTS EDHOR bey U11-ich and Lama Cumming ofTr1njty Couege, sisted Paul Malyszka for the ‘ Generals’ 1-0 double overtime win Saturday. at the end of regulation.
The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team rolled 0111)’ 8031 of the first ham with One minute left in

‘through its own Fall Festival Oct. 14 and 15, and then
participated in the 2000 Rolex Nationals in Memphis over

the weekend to conclude its fall season.

Junior Melissa Hatley won the number one singles ﬂight

‘in the Fall Festival, defeating the College of New Jersey’s
Jen Crombie 6- 1 , 6-7 (5), 6-4 in the title match. Sophomore
Brandi Jane Wedgeworth topped Mary Washington’s Emily

Sutliff 6-4, 6-0 to win the number two singles ﬂight.

Generals host ITA tournament

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team hosted the
ITA Southeast Regional on Oct. 6-9, concluding its fall sea-
son with the l7—team tournament.

Juniors Rhys James and Andrew Roberts advanced to the
semiﬁnals of the doubles competition before falling to Jose
Lejanaga and Seth Morgan of Washington College 6-1, 6-2.
J tutior Rob Moynihan and sophomore Chase Bice advanced to

The Generals came back early in the second half when
David Kodack assisted senior Andy Crawford for the
game-tying goal. Philip Miller was once again the story of
the game, scoring the game-winning goal three minutes
into overtime for a 2-1 W&L win.

The Generals went on to secure another road victory
Oct. 15, this time defeating Emory and Henry 3-1 in an Old
Dominion Athletic Conference match. Four minutes into

the second overtime, Miller scored once again, this time
off an assist from Wilson. Foley made six saves to keep
the Seahawks out of the Generals’ goal.

The Generals are now 13-1 in the season, including an
8-1 mark in the conference. The men’s soccer team plays
two more non-conference matches before the ODAC Tour-
nament begins: Wednesday at Virginia Military Institute
and Saturday at Averett.

In doubles competition, Hatley and sophomore Erika

‘ Proko knocked off Mary Washington’s Lea Schon and
Ashley Knapp 6-1, 6-4 to win the number one ﬂight.
Wedgeworth and sophomore Alyson Brice edged Steffany
Slaughter and Kim Colwell, also of Mary Washington, 9-8

the quarterﬁnals of the tournament, dropping a 6-0, 6-1 decision
to Swarthmore’s Pete Schilla and John Thomas.

Two W&L singles players advanced to the third round
of the 64—player singles tournament. Freshman Graham Nix
fell to Lejarraga in the third round, who ultimately ﬁnished in

Generals split season opener

, to win the second ﬂight.

Academic Couple
Seeks Egg Donor

21-28

Right candidate will be
« compensated with
approximately $7500.

‘D

Outstanding SATs/academics,
good temperament, dark hair/
eyes, even-featured, 5’6” or
taller, and lean build.

Please describe motivation
along with several
4. [returnable] photos to:

P.O. Box 22
West Kingston, RI 02892

All serious replies will be
answered.

second place, and James lost to Schilla .in three sets.

    
    
   

Léadék
Travel

HUGE SALE!

Sale Dates: 10/24-10/28

hggdon $1 85
$345

Ameriee's
Student

1|’)

    

Paris

from LAX
(.

Great fares from all over the u.s.
to Amsterdam, Birmingham,
Brussels, DuhIin,DusseIdorf, Rome,
Frankfurt, Glasgow, Lisbon, Madrid,
Manchester, Milan, 1shannon, Zurich.

Fares are RT for midweek travel and subject to
availability Tkts are Non-Refundable and exclusive of
taxes/surcharges which range from $30-$85. Tkts
must be booked and paid for from Oct 24th-28th.
Departures from Nov 1 - March 31. 2001. No
departures from Dec 12th through Dec 24th. Must
hold valid lS|C,lTlC. or IYTO card.

Some age and other restrictions may apply.

 ‘_

1 —800—2COUNClL

(open 24 hrs
9am Tue-midnight Fri est)
counci|travel.com

 

SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 2001!

ALL THE HOTTEST DESTINATION S/HOTELS! CAMPUS
SALES

‘ ‘* ' REPRESENTATIVES AND STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS

' WANTED!

VISIT inter-campus.com or call 1-800-327-6013

4

 ] The Cutting E

*;- A Hair Salon

highlighting, manicuring, pedicuring, Waxing
1 - A _ A Walk-ins welcome

540-463-9588

dgz

     

117 W. ‘Relson Street
Lexington. VP! 24-450

By Geoff White 

To  “SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s swim
teams opened their season in
a dual meet this Saturday
against Sewanee.

The men won nine of the
11 relays en route to a 53-34
win. Seniors Colin Hayes and
Mike Miraglia and freshman
Drew Catanese combined to
win the 300-yard free relay
with a time of 2:47.14, seven
seconds ahead of the Tigers’
team. Only the 4x200 free relay
and 500—yard free relay teams
lost to Sewanee.

“For our first meet of the
season, it was a good team ef-
fort,” sophomore Matt
Kimbrough said.

The women won three of
the relay events, but ultimately
fell 58-31 to Sewanee. The meet
featured only relays; therefore,
no individual competitions
were held.

Both teams will next travel
to Transylvania University’ in
Lexington, Ky. for a dual meet
on Saturday.

photo by Emily Barnes/Ex,ecutive Editor

WAITING GAME. Swimmers from Washington and Lee and Sewanee
watch their relay teammates during the Generals’ season opener
Saturday at the Doremus Gymnasium. The W&L men won 53-34,
while the Sewanee women’s team took home a 58-31 victory.

LEXINGTON
COFFEE
_____,;§/jzj

.‘/t’nu.rl (.1151 ())I)III/)((I(!l/

ENJOY CHESS - CHECKERS ° BACKGAMMON 0 & MORE!
ESPRESSO ° CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET - LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

 

 

PAGE 8

ecause I was the
only person who
volunteered for it

9:

LAsTW8‘ﬁb  

 

OCTOBER 23, 2000

t7£l;'lI'0II MM-
JUE6’ I7 [0131]] IEUEI17

Students resoundingly say, “God, we hope so.”

By now, almost nobody cares about the
elections here at W&L. Sure, the ﬁrst few
campaign posters were amusing, but after three
weeks of ﬁfty students ﬂooding the campus with
literature, just about everybody is sick of it.

One would think that the campaigns 11111 at
W&L would have a certain aura of
sophistication, or at the very least, be a step up
from the pushover elections of high school.
Unfortunately, that just isn’t the case for the
freshmen class. For the last three weeks, our
beautiful campus that we’re all paying an arm
and a kidney to be at, has received a crap—job
reﬁrrbishing.

Honestly, if I see another poster attempting
to be cute, clever, or catchy, I’ll go postal.
Despite the fact thatW&L has some of the most
intelligent and talented students anywhere in the
country, the school elections have some how
managed to leave everyone even more

disillusionedthanthe rest ofAme1icais with the
national elections. Congratulations.

The campaign literature falls into three
categories: Thetmoriginal name/position posters,
the unoriginal clever/cutsy posters, and the
unoriginal “shocking” posters.

The main theme, here, is that none of them
were really funny and most of them were really
annoying, especially after seeing them for the
two-thousandth time. In fact, the only truly
exciting events the election spawned were the
spontaneous acts of vandalism that occurred
against them \

The elections have been almost laughable
in their immaturity. Nobody knows the
candidates, the issues, or the stakes. . . only how
not funny each of candidates can really be.
Perhaps a new system needs to be developed
for student elections, but for now, save some
trees and save us all some grief.

 

/iﬂaral gilemma
of the p1/eeh

Is it an honor violation to lie to

9 out of 10 Hippies agree that
smoking doobies make them
more intelligent,‘ more in tune
with nature, more healthful,
more appreciative of others,
and less inhibitted. If they
think all that, do you still
want to smoke pot?

D on ﬁ:L’CL‘:2'\ . .. 171

A 1"'i.r’Fi£ﬁ..L ppﬂf 5.,’ Monica ‘5-C-HuEI'd'1'H«":LE'll

 

. Ey'Ei'_'1'EaD"l' Liidl?-5 ll

5nI- EH9"-I-D
MEET ..,,,,,.t_ 'k«TE..'1

lv-— 11!": W n

 

uorzs wt-'r_rr B524-e-=ITj:—*_a*
{_g.Lo 151;. 5.5”; -r I1t'Dtc.u.r.a
SL515-HHS.’ ‘

~..,r.e;=.=ir mane:-s 1=3 TE-5? n.ia~'T:fE
I! Prtmsar-;s~:-. BEWW THE -“"’f""""""” D
_- £,,,,,,_~1~g-;'-1: gL.Ez..'r.1e-J-J5 uh.-LE 1'-JEENTEEE _
c,,,_,_E&E? I,.._,u.;;.T are THE. PL«é?':e€“‘-*5»
-,,_;+=‘.-tartar-£5. fr-IE ‘FEM '1” -I_10|-I3 5-,,‘
'u'n=r”.1.:. THESE ?’E.I=FI—E'= "4-T”
;P'D'S1“|'ra-It-‘I5 :1-7 PD-V-'E'Q?
pa THEY ¢.E.a.tw: Ta‘-H-4: .w_.
ME A1‘-IE so ta.Ho£.ui'h:‘!‘_ n‘
Tmffrum w=i—=- SE [1
ABLE To ‘Set.-..u?.E GMT‘! 

/?§»\
.-/R 

?!rLo Mir~auTE5 LATER---r

  
 
 
 

HEY tnztit
"51:-Eras

- |-'Jsif.-'lH-II.
I! 1?.-.35 sun-
 F::”'rH'P:_
I I-1
bnuuﬁ
l.I"'dI‘l"E'-
F:a'_FE..

H I :'*‘{.-r!:

9
l  R

H!-LLLET$,'

1 . mﬁlts*i___rii_



_.-——



1!

your date by telling her she doesn't ,-4
look fat in her dress if she asks?

Y

I

X

.D0000COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOO
I

BGUFQIZ

.7(cz/0/oa cz e/at
G 012 yra/zz/a/es 173  

jilozzz ecozzzzirzy Queen 9‘Q21221'12ees

yjraaw

WM; 012 9601}?
5)z}20(sey   _71/ er'122a12
Bucyi 46a//1222 ore

51;; age/A y7Z:11°c£1Is'o12
Bacey Z0122 orof

0090409600§OfOOO§O’§OOQO§O9OO

    

_   ,pr”§..{ 1..

18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

THE RLACE FOR FOOD _A_I\_I_1_2 MN .I
7=HuRsoAY- 1<ARAo1<E
1-'RIDAY~ o. J. JOE
SATuRDAY~HALLOwEEN~
ANNIVERSARY PARTY-CASH RRrzEs
FOR BEST COSTuME~RAFFLES- GIFTS

1 6 oz. T5BONE STEAK W/BAKED
POTATO AND MIxE1) GREEN SALAD
$ 6.50

   

-=r

 o

ITHINK THAT SAYS IT ALL .:

 

