 
    

fire. in
t 3 ‘I ‘E 5/ if

 ;.,‘r‘)
ax J‘ J ‘W

.,/. 7-"ii.

,.
. -.
I 4- r"
(_

 i he Ring-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

I -"I '3‘. _.- .

‘xi Vi I-5  Ulil£’I‘$B!.T‘Y'

  

  

; ‘(VOLUME 103, NO. 22

C. , pring term’s fate
   waits faculty vote

 

By Emily Barnes and Mike Agnello

EXECUTIVE EDITOR AND ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

\ Spring term may be a thing of the past.
Faculty will vote during the first week
in April on whether to keep the current
three—semester calendar or adopt a two-
ysemester calendar. A special called fac-
ulty meeting will be scheduled to discuss
the decision no later than March 26.
The current academic calendar, estab-
lished in 1970, is under review as part of
the University’s Strategic Plan and the
University’s Self—Study program. If a two-
semester plan passes, Dean of the Col-
lege Laurent Boetsch said the curriculum
(would have to be revamped. He believed
the whole process could take three years
. to go into effect. -

“I don’t think any student here now
will have to worry about a calendar
-change,” Boetsch said.

The Calendar Review Committee was
established at the beginning of the cur-
rent school year to compile information.
glts speciﬁc purpose, as defined by the

comrr1ittee’s report, was “to identify and
analyze as many consequences as pos-
sible of a change to a more traditional two-
semester calendar.”

The committee, chaired by University
Librarian Barbara Brown, consisted of Pro-
fessors George Bent, Roger Crockett,

    
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  

Linda Hooks, Chuck O’Connell, Kip
Pirkle, Maryanne Simurda, and students
junior Sam Langholz and sophomore
Anne Ritchey. The committee gathered
information from faculty surveys and the
1999 and 2000 senior exit surveys to de-
termine the issues of greatest importance
to the W&L community on changing the
calendar.

President John Elrod issued a memo-
randum along with the report to the fac-
ulty Thursday.

In the memorandum, Elrod urged the
faculty to “determine which of the two
calendars will best serve the educational
needs and interests of our students.” If
the University decides to adopt a two-
semester calendar, the semesters would
consist of 14 weeks, and “the current stu-
dent/faculty ratio of 1 1 to one will be main-
tained with either calendar, and no addi-
tional faculty positions will be autho-

“This decision obviously has long-
term implications for the University and
is as important as any decision we will
have made in recent times,” Elrod wrote.

Boetsch said there is no point in taking a

SEE ‘SPRING,’ PAGE 2

 ‘Student attacked

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

A female Washington and Lee student
was attacked by an unindentiﬁed man at
approximately 1:30 a.m. Sunday.

‘V Immediately before the assault she left
a Phi Delta Theta party at the Pink Palace,
a country house near Collierstown.

Leaving the party, she called Safe
Rides to pick her up, and Athletic Intern
Todd Peters, a driver, told her he would
arrive in 15 minutes.

The student waited 10 minutes in the
house, then walked up to the street along Pink

ii Palace’s long, tree-lined driveway. Because the
driveway was dark and slick, Safe Rides vans
were picking students up from the road.

While waiting at the mouth of the drive-
way, an unidentiﬁed man came from behind
a near-by shed and grabbed her shoulders
from behind. As she turned around to face

 

J-school students to put on walking shoes

him, he pushed her to ground, unbuckled
his belt, and started kneeling.

She kicked her attacker’s face with her
boot heel. The man clutched his face, be-
gan cursing, and ran into the woods that
surround the property. 

Immediately after she stood up, Peters
arrived in the van.

Approximately an hour after being
dropped off at her home, the student no-
tiﬁed security, who called the police. She
has agreed to press charges if an arrest is
made. Under Virginia law, the attacker
faces a Class 1 misdemeanor, punishable
by 15 days to one year in jail.

The attacker was approximately 5 feet
10 to 6 feet tall, with short brown hair. The
night of the assault he was wearing jeans.
a blue T—shirt, and white sneakers. Stu-
dents withi information on the attacker
should contact Director of Security Mike
Young at 462-8427.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2001

photo by Mary Guyl Photo Editor

JAZZING IT UP. From left to right, junior Gary Davis, junior Charene Jones, sophomore Latoya Sherron, freshman

Rachael Mallis, and freshman Meg Ferrara get down at the third annual Cabaret. Sponsored by the Minority Student
Association, Cabaret drew students, faculty, and administrators to Doremus Gym for four hours of jazz and funk.

SAE plans reinstatement program

Chapter alumnus Jim Farrar
plans to work closely with
men of Virginia Sigma

By Matthew McDermott

NEWS EDITOR

The Sigma Alpha Epsilonfraterriity took the
first steps towards reversing its suspension this
past week, meeting with Jim Farrar, president of
its housing corporation, to discuss a schedule
of reinstatement.

SAE will be reinstalled when its members
“demonstrate their readiness and their matu-
rity to manage alcohol within the laws of the
state of Virginia,” according to a campus-wide
broadcast mailer University President John
Elrod sent on March 6.

Fall 2001 is the earliest reinstatement time
that Elrod is willing to consider.

The fraternity is also required to collaborate
with the SAE National Fraternity and the SAE
House Corporation to develop a timetable for
future changes.

“Jim Farrar is working closely with SAE to dis-
cuss what needs to be done,” said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison, who informed the fraternity
of its suspension the evening of March 5.

Farrar, an alumnus of W&L and its SAE chap-
ter Virginia Sigma, has already met for several
hours with fraternity members.

Despite fraternity members. being “very disap-
pointed, hurt, confused and frustrated,” said Farrar,
they are “putting aside personal feeling.”

Impressed with the house’s behavior, Farrar
says that a 10-member committee has already
been formed to examine a large range of issues.
It will evaluate “pledgeship, a community ser-
vice component, and an alcohol policy,” said
Farrar, and will work on an unofficial reinstate-
ment proposal.

The housing corporation will meet March 17
to confer with the SAE committee and evaluate
the situation.

The corporation, informed of the suspension
several hours before the fraternity, concurred with
the decision.

In a Cable 2 television interview, SAE President

By Latrina Stokes

STAFF WRITER

Journalism students can expect longer walks
to class next year.
The Lexington Planning Commission granted
1‘ a one-year permit to the university Thursday to
A place the 10 trailers that will house the journal-
ism department in either the Woods Creek park-
ing lot or the parking lot between duPont Hall
and VMI’s Marshall Museum.

‘I The commission did not like the University’s
first choice for the “modular buildings,” the Cor-
ral parking lot on the comer of Washington and
Lee streets. When asked about that location,

‘University Architect Tom Contos told the com-
mission to forget about it.

“You can throw that idea to the dogs,” Contos
said.
Instead, he asked that a permit be issued for the

" Woods Creek parking lot next to the heating plant
as a last resort. The University prefers to use the

,’ parking lot behind the Marshall Museum. Contos
said VMI is willing to allow the trailers in the spaces

' where W&L faculty now park. However, state ap-

' proval, insurance and other legal complications may
prevent the University from using this site.

This decision comes after a month of meet-

ings and tabled discussions. Construction of the
University Commons will prevent the University
from using the original site in front of Doremus
gym. The Corral was the next best choice be-
cause of its close location, access to public utili-
ties, and low cost. However, the members of the
planning commission had been reluctant to al-
low trailers in such a visbile location.

Although it has avoided angering the city of
Lexington, the University has angered many jour-
nalism majors by choosing other sites.

Sophomore Austin Calhoun was most angered
that the city’s main objection to the Corral was
aesthetic. She also thought that the city failed to
recognize how much the University and its stu-
dents contribute locally.

“I feel like Lexington depends on the student
population a lot, and to subject us to such an
inconvenience, especially given the fact that the
department is so prestigious, is a little ridiculous,”
Calhoun said.

Calhoun, who plans to live off-campus next
year, added that walking to either location will
require more time and produce extra stress.

She was not the only student to gripe about
the distance. Junior broadcast journalism major
Charene Jones agreed with Calhoun.

“I definitely think it’s too far, I would have
preferred the Corral because it’s more central to

campus,” Jones said.

Jones said that she has an added burden with-
out a car to get to her interviews off campus. If
the trailers end up in Woods Creek, Jones said
that she would have even more difficulty com-
pleting her assignments. 1,

Senior Daniel Sozomenu, a broadcast major in-
volved with WLUR, said the department and radio
station would be more inconvenienced by operat-
ing from the Woods Creek parking lot.

“I don’t know if that would result in an even
more reduced listening area, but as far as I know
there will be an attempt to keep that going,”
Sozomenu said.

Professor Hampden Smith, chair of the jour-
nalism department, confirmed that WLUR as well
as most classes will operate from a trailer.

“All the larger classes will be taught on the
hill; all labs andjprobably all small serninar—like
classes will be in Mod Hall,” Smith said.

Smith, unlike many students, has not claimed
that either Woods Creek or the museum parking
lot would be a great inconvenience.

“We won’t be walking as far as the [VMI]
cadets do now,” Smith said. ,

“Both students and faculty will have to hustle
if they have back—to-back classes. [An] enor-
mous state university has classes far, far apart,”
he said. “We’re spoiled.”

John Comly said that changes such as a self— '

administered total ban on hard liquor were al-
ready being discussed before university action.

After the death of SAE member Adam
Burchett, “we took a hard look at our fraternity
and the way it operates,” Comly said. “We
thought we’d revamp the entire house from the
ground up. That takes time, but we’re willing to
do it.”

Critical of the measures, Comly believes that
the suspension is “counterproductive” and that
the action should have been taken “against the
entire system, not just one house.”

“[The proposal] may not be the fair thing, if
it’s going to make a difference then we’re will-
ing at any cost to have that change happen,”
Comly said.

In the meantime SAE may not participate
in social events, team intramurals, chapter
or Interfraternity Council meetings. The
fraternity’s pledge class will be initiated as
scheduled, no one will be forced to leave
the house, and the its kitchen will remain
open.

  
   

    

   

  
  

)t
V ~ - - Clinton’s ’ Iminal legacy: attack: , W0 _ k:
   the historical crushes What the ma rks are afraid
March 12’ 2001 nd president nation has to‘ '
‘F

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 iﬁtng-tum lﬂlti

NEWS

MARCH 12, 2001 

 

Preparations to clone humans begun

Scientists from Italy, the United States and Israel
armounced that they will begin preparations in the next
few weeks to try to produce the first clone of a human
being. More than 600 infertile couples had already asked
to participate in the experiment. Rome obstetrician
Severino Antinori and Lexington, Ky., based fertility
specialist Panos Zavos plan to have the project com-
pleted within the next two years. The project is being
carried out with private, “unlimited” funding.

The cloning of a human embryo would be used mainly
as a solution to male sterility, the doctors said, and only
when all other remedies had failed. If successful, the
cloned children would be genetic twins of their fathers.
Experts in the ﬁeld of animal cloning criticized the team,
not only because of the ethical issues involved, but
because of the probability, that a cloned human being
would have serious malformations.

Zavos and Antinori both said their long experience
in the ﬁeld of in vitro fertilization and other forms of
assisted pregnancies would allow them to create clones
without deformities. Zavos told reporters, “We will use
every test there is available, and if we have to invent
new criteria to determine a healthy embryo, we will. We
won’t go ahead until we are sure we will have a healthy
baby.”

The British government said last year it supported clon-
ing of human embryos up to 14 days old for purposes of

I mail General Notes to“-

 

Joshua D. Chamberlain of Richmond, VA, and Jor-
dan S. Ginsberg of Jackson, M1, were recently awarded
the 2001 Edward L. Pinney Prize.

The Pinney Prize is awarded to the undergraduate
story who “demonstrates extraordinary commitment
both to personal scholarship and to the nuturing of
intellectual life at Washington and Lee.” I

Pinney was established by Washington and Lee
faculty in memory of Edward Lee Pinney, professor of
politics, who died in 1980.

-story courtesy Student Affairs Committee

THE WORLD

THIS WEEK

By Mehul Srivastava

retrieving potentially therapeutic cells. The U.S. Food and
Drug Administration said no human cloning may take place
in the United States without its permission. Italy has no law
prohibiting human cloning. Many countries lack legisla-
tion or guidelines for dealing with the issue.

14-year-old sentenced to life in prison

A Fort Lauderdale judge yesterday sentenced 14-year-
old Lionel Tate to life in prison without parole, issuing one
of the toughest punishments to a child in Florida history.
Tate was found guilty of the first-degree murder of 6-year-
old Tiffany Eunick.

Tiffany’s skull was fractured, her ribs broken and her
liver torn as a result of Tate trying out professional wres-
tling moves on her. She received a total of 30 injuries,
which Tate initially claimed were caused by her being
swung into a staircase by mistake. Tate’s counsel Lewis
argued that Tate was simply copying the World Wrestling
Federation stunts hesaw on television.

Judge Joel Lazarus ruled that Tate was mature enough
to know the consequences of his actions saying ‘"Ihe acts
of Lionel Tate were cold, callous and indescribably cruel.”

One juror said the panel did not believe the wrestling
defense. “Anybody that went through that trial and wit-
nessed the brutality, and the length of time it took to inﬂict
the blows, would have to go with first degree murder un-
der the law.”

Harvard singers to tour W&L

The Radcliffe Choral Society of Harvard University is
scheduled to perform on Monday, March 26 at 8:00 p.m. in
Lee Chapel. It will sing sacred and secular works from the
Renaissance through the 20th century. Stravinsky, Mozart,
and Irish folk songs will be featured.

Admission is free, but a $5 donation will be appreciated.

Farrar named next senior assistant
to the president

Alumnus Jim Farrar, secretary to the Board of Trustees
and associate director of development, accepted Univer-
sity President John Elrod’s offer to become his senior as-
sistam. .    . . ., .. . . ..

In his new position, Farrar will enagein lspecialassigln-‘
ments: drafting reports, making presentations and serving
as Elrod’s proxy.

He replaces Farris Hotchkiss, also an alumnus, who
retires after a 35-year career at Washington and Lee.

WIN $50 in the BOOKSTORE CONTEST!

What D0 Women Want?

in honor of Women's I-ilstory Month, the W&L BOOKSTORE is sponsoring
an ESSAY CONTEST to find an answer to this timeless question.

FIRST PRIZE - $50 Gift Certificate
SECOND PRIZE —

OPEN to ALL members of the W&L community.
Essays should be approximately 500 words, typewritten, double-spaced.
Any approach - creative, persuasive, personal, historical - is valid.

A panel of judges, headed by Mimi Eirod and including a faculty
member, a staff member, and a student, will choose the winners on the
basis of quality of thought and writing. Submit to the bookstore any
time before noon on Friday, March 30, 2001. Submissions should have a
SEPARATE title page with the author's name and phone number, but there
should be no Identification on the essay itself. Judges will not know

the Identity or the gender of the authors before they make their choices.

$25 Gift Certificate

SPRING

student vote, because the administra-
tion already knows what students think.
Seventy-ﬁve percent of the seniors sur-
veyed in the 2000 exit survey opposed a
two-semester switch and only 16 per-
cent favored the move.

“The calendar is really the
perrogative of the faculty,” Boetsch
said.

History Professor 1. Taylor Sand-
ers said he likes the current calendar,
and worries he will lose personal con-
tact with students under the proposed
new one.

“Class size would go up and add
to the depersonalization of classes,”
Sanders said.

Sanders added that students who
are passionately against eliminating
spring term should talk to faculty
members and voice their concern. Poli-
tics Professor and former Dean of Stu-
dents Lewis John ’58 said he under-
stands the concerns of the new
calendar’s proponents, but worries
about his department’s spring term
programs in Washington, D.C. and
London. John added that professors
who complain about spring term be-
ing “play time” can simply raise their
expectations for students.

“That’s a faculty problem, not a
student problem,” John said.

One factor listed in the committee’s
report concerns student behavior
during spring term, when students
have much more free time, “which is
usually spent drinking.”

“A change to two semesters
would turn May into ‘crunch time,’
and offer less opportunity for exces-
sive drinking,” the committee wrote.

Other professors are concerned
that important courses for majors will
have to be revamped or eliminated.
Journalism Professor Brian
Richardson ’72 agrees with John that
professors can use spring term to de-
mand more of their students.
Richardson cited the department’s
spring term in—depth reporting class,
known for its rigor and intensity,
would not work in a 14-week term.

“[The new calendar] would de-
stroy the course as it’s currently con-
structed,” Richardson said. “If [we]
know students are taking only one
other course, [we] can set the expec-
tations higher.”

Some faculty members support elimi-
nating spring term because it would
give them more time to do research.
Fifty-seven percent of the faculty polled
said summer research time is an impor-
tant consideration.

Politcs Professor Mark Rush said
he favors a two-semester calendar,
and thinks his freshmen advisees get
closed out of too many spring term
classes. Rush added that few study-
abroad programs coordinate with the
current calendar, and most students
do not go abroad anyway.

“I don’t think the benefits are
worth [the majority of] students be-
ing stuck in Lexington,” Rush said.

French Professor Kathy Koberstein,
who coordinates a spring term program
in France, said she understands both
sides of the issue, but would probably
vote for a two-semester system.

“It would take an enormous
amount of effort [to change], but it
wouldn’t be impossible,” Koberstein

FROM PAGE 1

said. “Most of the [long] semester
courses would benefit.”

The Calendar Review Committee
report breaks down several factors in
the decision on a pro vs. con basis.
One major concern for students is the
comrnittee’s prediction that 12 percent
of the curriculum would be lost in the
move.

“It’ll be harder to double major, es-
pecially in the music department,
since you won’t have as much sched-
uling freedom,” senior Sybil Prince
said. “There are several seminar
classes we need to take that are only
offered in the spring term. Plus, I’m
dying right now with four classes, ﬁve
may be just too much.”

Freshman John Miller said he op-
posed the change, even though he has
yet to experience the term for himself.

“Spring term is one of the things
that attracted me to this school since
I visited during that time and found it
unique,” Miller said. “I also don’t
want to lose the two breaks from
Christmas to the end of the year.”

Sophomore Neal Willetts said he
prefers the two-semester, more conven-
tional calendar. Willetts added that he
has trouble applying for internships be-
cause of how late W&L’s classes end.

“Being in school a month later than
everybody else is ridiculous,” Willetts
said. “We could accomplish just as
much academically and socially in a
two-semester system as we could in
three.”

History Professor Holt Merchant
said no matter what the result of the
vote, the future of the University is at
stake.

 

of excellence.

Washington &Lee’s award-winning
publication wants you.

Be a part of the 103-year-old tradition

Tuesdays, 7:00 p.m., University Center 208.

Study Outside
 N ext Semester
The Castle Rock Institute sponsors
an off-campus study program ‘t'Iaa.t
combines coursework in religion,

philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbing, biking

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session: Aug. 27 -Dec. 10

Visit the CR1 website to request an application.

Castle Rock Institute

P.O.. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 .828-862-3759
wwvsncastle - rock.org

 

and paddling.

 

 
  

 

Learn the fundamentals of:

' Marketing

° Organizational Behavior
° Hands-on market & ﬁnancial research

° Business related computer applications

° Effective communication & presentation skills

° Accounting
- Finance

Are You a Non-Business Major? Do You Want to improve Your Marltetabilityl

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California, Berkeley
Intensive BASE Summer Program IS FORYOU!

July 9 -August I7, 200i

- Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

Arts, Sciences, and Engineering students will beneﬁt from this rigorous, six-week
summer curriculum that will include lectures, case studies, company visits, guest
speakers and student presentations.

For more information, contact our website at:

IIttp:I/haas.berke|ey.edulUndergradIBASE.htm|
or via email at: BASE@haas.berke|ey.edu

 

  

 

MARCH 12, 2001

OiiRiroN

9
Preserve
‘spring term

V

  
 
    
  

Lately it seems that a wave of change has hit this insti-
tution. The administration and students have committed
themselves to making changes to implement a more posi-
tive culture at Washington and Lee. However, we ‘must
not resort to changing what makes W&L a unique and
intellectually stimulating place. As the faculty ponders

whether or
Cbnservativeltberal “°‘ ‘° .“°
away with
Jonathan Wortham ’O4 spring term,
Iurge them

to think wisely about what it would do to our University.

I realize that I am a freshman, and have not gone through

1 a spring term, but I think that I can provide some insight as
to why spring term is an asset to W&L. One of the reasons

I decided to come to W&L is spring term. And I am not
talking about the parties and trips to Goshen that evidently

‘W come along with spring term. I am refering to the array of
courses that are offered spring term, which help expose stu-
dents to a wide variety of topics that would not be able to be
covered in fall and winter temis. Used properly, spring term

can be a valuable time of enrichment and learning.

g; After talking with several faculty members, I under-
stand that spring term is the time to pick one or two sub-
jects to investigate deeply. In both the fall and winter
terms, students must focus on three to ﬁve courses; thus
each course can receive only a fraction of their attention.
However, in the spring students can investigate select
subjects “vertically” —— meaning intense study on a fo-

New alcohol regulations

4 should be reconsidered

Dear Editor,
As an alumnus who vowed not to forget what it’s like
to be a student, I’ve been very concerned over the past
'4 few weeks regarding the new alcohol proposals. I am tired
of the university branding every W&L student a drunk.
The majority is responsible, and I’m concerned that W&L
is passing from a state of understandable reaction to two
senseless deaths to a state of unacceptable overreaction.

Did I read correctly that the University has proposed
prohibiting “shots” anywhere on campus? Not only is
this laughably unenforceable, but it’s insulting to every
student." Banning liquor and prohibiting beer past 1 a.m.?

1; Perhaps not unreasonable at first glance, butliquor and
beer will always be available in the countryside beyond the
adrninistration’s reach, but not beyond an automobile’s.
These forced social regulations are only going to accom-

@ plish the opposite of the University’s intent.

What’s the goal? To ban alcohol? To limit legal liabil-
ity? To save lives? I would hope the primary goal is the
last one, but, ironically, the University’s proposals most
likely will have the opposite effect. This is how good in-

1, tentions can have horrible consequences. The University
is about to push so hard that students will abandon the
normal channels of socializing, and it will lose all control
over social interaction. The fraternity rarik-and-ﬁle will
head into the countryside to party, and the adniinistraton

4 can’t regulate what goes on there.

I know the University is concerned over alcohol abuse
on campus, but I think we need to be pragmatic. Alcohol
and drug abuse have never been eliminated in society so

‘ what makes the administration think they can eliminate it

@112 ‘tiling-tum iﬂlri

I
Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
News Editors Matt MeDerm'ott
Max Smith
1 Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello

Tara Ann Friedel
Brett Kirwan
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Bryan Early

Kris Pollina
Michael Crittenden
Mary Guy

Eric Wechtler

Opinion Editor
Assistant Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

' Copy Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor

Staff Photographer

Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
" Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
'7 on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
” tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
‘v Washington and Lee University
1 Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
'7 http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

~LETTERS To THE EDITOR

 

cused topic. If we had two 14-week terms, would students
have this opportunity to study these topics in depth?
In addition, spring term is the perfect time to study
abroad. It gives students the ability to spend a short, but
meaningful time in another country. The ability to leave
the country and not severely impact their academic career
encourages students to experience a variety of different
countries and cultures. The loss of spring term and the

accompanying prospect of falling behind in the four year
graduation schedule will result in less study abroad.

Spring term is one of the factors that make W&L stand
out among other schools. This time of enrichment and
education should not be eliminated because of a minority
who uses it for excessive drinking and partying. I urge the
faculty to consider an alternative to eliminating such a
valuable time.

on W&L’s campus? All the University will accomplish
with the “ends justify the means” mentality is increasing
the risk of loss of life while violating student self-gover-
nance — something I thought was sacrosanct at W&L.

W&L’s unique aspect is student self—govemance. I’m
troubled by the heavy-handed “suggestions” from the
University to the IFC presidents. After speaking with some
students, I was troubled to learn the IFC was basically
given the proposals, a three-week deadline to come up
with its own set of proposals — albeit they should be
similar to the University’s -— and a reminder of the power
of the University to suspend a fraternity altogether if the
IFC should fail to act. What is masquerading as student
government these days?

Micro—management of student life is never acceptable,
no matter the lofty goal. It’s insulting and duplicitous —
“Welcome to W&L. You’re adults now. . . however, we do
have this list of things we feel you’re too immature to
decide for yourself.” Adulthood affords them the oppor-
tunity to make brilliant or foolish choices.

Imay be old—fashioned in my thinking that if a student can
vote for the president, be sent off to die for his or her country,
and be expected to plan for his or her future in academics,
then that student is entitled to make his or her own decisions
regarding social drinking. Irealize our Congress determined
otherwise when it required every state to enact the 21-year-
old drinking age, but I’m a realist. People will always seek out
what’s denied to them -— after all, drugs seem to be rather
prevalent in society and they’re outright illegal.

I ﬁnd it problematic in President Elrod’s letter to W&L
parents that drugs are mentioned as “second—hand” ef-
fects of alcohol. Hardly second-hand. Drugs are preva-
lent on campus, as they have been for decades. I suspect
the university is in the uncomfortable position of not being
able to focus on drug abuse, since drugs are illegal across
all age brackets and therefore not prone to regulation. But
what’s more troubling to me is that the new alcohol propos-
als may, ipso facto, promote the use of drugs. In talking
with students this fall, I learned that it’s easier for them to
smoke pot or pop a pill on the way to a party than it is to find
beer and consume it publicly over a period of time. Again, I
may be old—fashioned, but I prefer students sipping alcohol
in the open to popping pills en route. The effects of alcohol
are easier for a student to predict than immediate chemical
reactions in the brain. I also prefer students sipping alcohol
openly at the fratemity houses instead of trying to get a
“buzz” before driving to them.

While I understand the University’s goal is to curb
alcohol abuse, most students know how to consume it
responsibly for the level of escapism they desire. A few
extremes do not, nor, sadly, will they ever learn even with
your prohibitions. You won’t dissuade them from their
desired levels of escapism. You’ll simply drive their so-
cializing out of the fraternities altogether, and put more
lives at risk on the roads. So, what is the answer?

Live Drive and Safe Ride.

What is urgent for W&L and what the University does

TALKback:

 

“Deﬁnitely nice people. There is a warm
aura coming from the campus.”
— J arnie Calabrese

    

“Great school, bettr people.”

realistically have some control over is the prevention of au-
tomobile accidents involving alcohol. The University must
expand the Live Drive and Safe Ride programs. In a town like
Lexington where taxi service isn’t an option, we must provide
a means of transportation for students who have consumed
too much. An expanded, reliable, free, anonymous, non-judg-
mental Live Drive/Safe Ride is the answer. Don’t judge, just
get them home safely if they’ve overdone it. Apparently,
over 700 students have utilized Safe Ride since its December
introduction —~ that should speak volumes.

Also, let’s not get involved in the legal system’s DUI
punishment. A student facing one has quite a lot on his or
her plate and shouldn’t be double—punished with a year’s
suspension. This isn’t to minimize the severity of the vio-
lation, but W&L should leave the severity of the punish-
ment to the courts. M . . . .. .

Finally, the 22 January 2001 issue of the Phi quoted IFC
Advisor Burr Datz as saying that, “History shows that those
who cannot control their own destinies, have to have their
destinies controlled for them.” I’d like to remind that the
Board of Trustees a long time ago wisely decided the W&L
student body shall govern itself. That governance may in-
clude some choices not to the university’s liking, but, never-
theless, it is up to the student body to make those decisions.
Let’s not be so myopic that we accomplish the exact oppo-
site of our intent. Refrain from over-regulating, and rather,
keep the students alive by offering an alternative to their
getting behind the wheel. Let’s make it easy for them to make
that adult decision to use Live Drive/Safe Ride. I suspect
they’ll do a ﬁne job of controlling their own destinies.
Sincerely,

Andrew Caruthers ’87

SAE suspension applauded

Dear Editor, ,

I applaud President Elrod’s action in suspending SAE.
Elrod consulted with the SAE national and with the house
corporation. But, ultimately, the decision was his to make
in the best interests of the entire university community.
The key word in all this from my point of view is responsi-
bility, rather than accountability.

Students leaders, especially upperclassmen, house
leaders and varsity athletes have to learn to take respon-
sibility for younger students who look up to them as role
models. They need to be proactive and step in where their
good judgment tells them action is required. Leadership
isn’t just about recognition. It’s also about taking un-
popular actions when that’s the right thing to do.

This isn’t something which can be done on a one-time
basis. It’s an issue which needs to revisited every year
with each new set of leaders. It isn’t about parental over-
sight on the part of the university either. It’s a life and
death matter as we have learned first hand. . . too often.
Sincerely,

Alan M. Corwin ’62

To the Honor Scholars. . .

What are your thoughts about W&L?

 

—— Dan Fassio

3/12/01, 12:48 AM

 

  

“A real southern college, pretty
and hospitable.”
— Duncan I-Iinkle

is avery eau i u campus. . .
very friendly students and faculty.”
—— Mary Vause

 

PAGE 4

  O

@112 iﬂtng-tum iﬂlii

PINION   

FD goes toBorbon St.

I had my first Mardi Gras experience
over Feb break. When I came back to
school, I resolved that the South was
crazy, and I wanted to go back to New
York where people are normal. . . or at
least where foreign cab drivers don’t talk
about how they see girls hooking up in
the back seats of their vans everyday.
In New York, they might be grouchy,
they might even stab me to death, but
they won’t point out New Orleans’ prime
recreational drug exchange comers like
they’re historical sites. Regardless, I
came back to Lexington tapped out.
Money. Energy. Any understanding of
the human condition.

But, alas, we’ve managed to bring the
salubrious aura of Bourbon Street back
to Lexington for my favorite weekend:
Fancy Dress. FD manifests the great
parody of W&L. In theory, it should be
this wonderfully pleasurable and typi-
cally collegiate experience that everyone
tells their children about: “My junior year
FD date was in the coolest fraternity, and
I had the best dress.” However, between
disappearing FD decorations, the who’s-
gonna-ask—me crisis multiplied exponen-
tially, and result-

L

STRANGE FRUIT. Fancy Dress kicked 011' th beads hanging from trees
around campus as the New Orleans inspired theme was revealed.

count that some people don’t check their
mailboxes every day; hence, not every-
one is going to receive their invitation in
time for the gala. Last year, I never went to
the post office, didn’t get one and as-

sumed I was not in-

ing Stlldﬁnt vited. I ate chocolate
alienations O S  chjpcookjedoughau
which I will dis— Ktjs Polling ’03 night instead of danc-
cuss later, Fancy ‘mg,

Dress 1001115 The theme of FD also insinuates con-

more sinisterly than it does happily.

Although everyone thinks Fancy
Dress is great and fun, it’s really a con-
glomeration of the everyday evils of
W&L into one giant affair. Ifthe FD Steer-
ing Committee cared anything about the
students’ emotional stability, they
wouldn’t make such a big deal out of it.
As if students didn’t get suicidal enough
about Homecoming dates, the drama over
having an escort rises proportionately to
the drama of the function. For example, if,
on a scale of 1 to 10, someone was a 7 in
pulling their hair out over getting a date,
the same person will be a 49 during FD.
You just square the degree of
patheticness. Clearly, the committee did
not take this into account.

Nor did they probably take into ac-

cepts such as debauchery and France.
When I was in Louisiana, I saw a lot of
people drinking beverages of the alco-
holic persuasion. To have the FD theme
be New Orleans implies that people might
drink. For the people here who don’t
drink, it alienates them. It also alienates
people who have not taken French, be-
cause the invitation (I wisened up and
checked my box every day) reads in
French. Once again, FD has jeopardized
the mental welfare of its students, isolat-
ing Spanish students and non-drinkers.

I don’t eat seafood, so having the
FD rafﬂe be for a crawﬁsh party seems
like an especially low blow.

Fancy Dress rears its psychologically
damaging head once again: Some people
think they might get an HV if they steal

 
  

 
 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

photo by Emily Bariiestflxecutivei

beads. . . yet another anxiety to add to
the already burdened W&L mind. More
and more, FD seems to be a conspiracy
devised by the psychology majors in or-
der to gauge the emotional strength of
college students.

For those unfamiliar with types of es-
says, this one falls into the pigeonhole
of satire (I hate being the person who
can’t write well enough to let that speak
for itself, butl don’t want the FD Steer-
ing Committee ripping off my limbs and
bludgeoning me to death with them). I
can’t even imagine how long it took them
to put up those beads, but I applaud
them for that, and for the invitations, and
for the rafﬂes. I’m trying to point out
how ridiculous some of the crap we
worry about is. FD represents a week-
end of not worrying about the Victorian
novel research paper due, or the eco-
nomics test, or the fact that winter term
hasn’t ended yet. We should appreciate
the excitement and commotion of the up-
coming weeks, because it’s better than
trying to get excited about Recycling Fri-
days. (Just kidding, recycling’s great! All
the cool people recycle.)

Regardless, have fun at Fancy Dress.

Assistant Alumni Director

for On-Line Communications

The Washington and Lee Alumni Oﬂice announces the opening for the position of Assistant Alumni Director
for On-Line Communications. Responsibilities include: oversight of "Colonnade Connections," W&L's Alumni
On-Line Community, maintaining and updating that service's on-line message boards, its design, and utilizing its
"blast" email capabilities in communicating with the entire alumni population (or segments thereof); serve as
liaison to the on-line community provider and other campus web users; design and maintain Alumni Ofﬁce
homepages and websites; assist Career Services with career list requests; serve as advisor to Kathekon, W&L's
Student Alumni Association; answer requests for alumni lists and research projects; compose obituaries for the
alumni magazine; aid in general alumni office planning for homecoming, reunion and alumni chapter events.

Travel involved.

The position will become available June 15, 2001, and preference will be given to W&L alumni and 2001
degree candidates. All candidates for this position should submit a cover letter and resume no later
than Tuesday, March 27, 2001. All materials should be sent to:

Rob Mish
Director of Alumni Programs
Alurrmi Ofﬁce
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
EMAIL: rmish@wlu.edu
TEL: 540-463-8464
FAX: 540-463-8473

MostiW8.L
    Use Al

Sfucl ehis
coLol  5

every momlay
8:30 p.m. to midnight

J AVA AT

co|=r=Ei=.peop|eMus|cmore

THE GHQ

March 19 - An evening with Charene Jones
March 26 - Mindbending productions
April 2 - Gospel Night with Joyful Noise

TONIGHT: OPEN MIKE

  ‘Wwe,ek_a_t:g

 c eteyburnl-ibrary.

 .  University center‘

‘ "Student Health‘ .-.Cenj.1: ’ =

II participants eligible,

   “ win 1Eof__;i3»f  .
.5-50-_ Gift Certificates to tlgieé

 I ~ :  ‘ f ;Books.tor  ‘

 as con: 

Sponsored by:

0 0 H N‘

Office of Health Promotion and Substance Abuse.Prevention

 
 
 
 

‘MARCH 12, 2001

 

1

Students plan summer internships

By Amy Blevins

,( STA FF WRITER

The deadlines are here, the interviews are approach-
ing, the applications are cluttering students’ desks.
Whether they are padding their resume with a fun summer
job, doing research, or preparing for their future occupa-
tion, some Washington and Lee students are already mak-
ing plans.

Many students are using their summer months to gain

4 first—hand experience in the working world. Junior Susan
‘ Ru ge is planning to work with Republicans Abroad Inter-

national in Washington, D.C. The group works with Ameri-
can citizens living overseas, helping with absentee bal-
lots in election years, arranging overseas trips for Con-
gressmen, and answering questions about the United
States’ political situation.

Ruge sees interning as a stepping stone to her goal of
furthering her education in politics and ultimately living in

Y

"Europe and working with the European Union.

“I think interning is the most valuable thing you can
do. I’m only a junior, but I know that I have a job with a few
places if I want it already after I graduate,” said Ruge.
“Hopefully I’ll get to know some of the prominent Ameri-
can businessmen in Europe.” Ruge said.

Juniors Sarah Spisich and Sam Langholz are also hop-
ing to be in Washington, D.C. this summer. Spisich has
applied to work with the Department of State in the Bu-

areau of Intelligence and Research. Langholz hopes to work
as a White House intern.

Spisich is interested in foreign affairs and American
foreign policy, and plans on continuing her education in
international relations. With the internship, Spisich would
be conducting background research for European public
opinion polls.

“[The internship] will give me an idea if this is some-
thing that I could see myself doing for the rest of my life.”
said Spisich. “It’ll help me decide between law school and

<1 grad school.”

Langholz worked on Capitol Hill last summer and
worked for the George W. Bush presidential campaign in
Iowa.

“I’ve wanted to learn as much about Washington D.C.

‘ and the political life on Capitol Hill and now on the other
end of Pennsylvania Avenue at the White House,” said
Langholz. “Regardless of what I end up doing, it’ll be an
experience that I will take with me.”

,; Freshmen Blair Oakley and Lauren LaRue are getting an
early start on the internship process. LaRue is applying for
an internship with the National Space Society, and Oakley

is applying with the Environmental Protection Agency.

The National Space Society “works to educate the pub-
lic, the government, and corporate sectors about the ad-
vantages of space exploration,” said LaRue. The internship
would include researching public policy recommendations,
attending congressional hearings, and organizing events.

“The position really appeals to me because I want to
double major in a science and politics, and the internship
provides a wonderful opportunity to combine my two inter-
ests,” said LaRue.

Oakley is applying for an internship with the Georgia
Environmental Protection Agency. Oakley would work
under conservationists learning about local environmen-
tal health, mainly the Chatahoochee River.

“This experience would involve some tanning in the sun

To INFINITY AND BEYOND! Freshman Lauren LaRue hopes to get a summer internship with the
National Space Society, which educates others about the advantages of space exploration.

and playing in the mud,” said Oakley. “But more importantly
[it] would teach me a lot about environmental activism.”

Some students will use the summer months for educa-
tion. Sophomore Dustin Albright plans to assist W&L
Physics and Engineering Professor Kenneth Van Ness by
researching polymers. Albright plans to attend graduate
school to study civil engineering and architecture.

“This will help fill grad school applications,” said
Albright. “And tinkering in the lab should be pretty fun.”

Not all students are pursuing the typical internship.
Freshman Christina Webster hopes to work on a ranch
this summer in Wyoming or Colorado as a waitress, host-
ess, or children’s counselor.

“It’s absolutely gorgeous out west,” said Webster.
“And I want an adventure.”

 

* Vllishes you a
Happy St. Patrick’s Day!

Looking for a tasteful way to celebrate

St. Patrick’s Day?
4 Check out our ladies’ jewelry and selection of
men's lrlsh ties—or try our delicious lrlsh foods.

Formal is quickly approaching!

If you want to wear something a bit more
distinctive this year, why not a tartan bow tie 8.
cummerbund, or a taran sash for ladies?
Order yours nowl

Just lnl See our new line of elegant linen skirts & shawls
from Mary Flaherty Capes In Galway, Ireland.

1 Daily 10AM-5:30PM

19 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
540-464-6545
1-877-CELTIC-2
, www.celtlcconnex.com
A www.lrlshmealsbymail.com

From the Class of 2001 Christina Julian
Bryant Adams Lauren LaFauci
Ann Cabell Baskervill Christine Metzger
Lauren Bradshaw Kathleen Moroney
Virginia Brumby Eric Owsley
Allison Bruneau Stephen Pesce
Timothy Cormier Stephen Philipson
Mirella Dragieva Ginger Phillips
Erin Ferguson Hugh Rabb
Matthew Gooch Crystal Simpson
Charles Green Althea Smiley
Shari Henderson Nicholas Stawasz
Stephen Hostetler Julieann Ulin
Matthew Howenstein Dorothy Yuan

A  Iliirlg-tlilm  congratulates recent incilicteés of the Phi Beta Kappa National Honors Society

From the Class of 2002 Anne Lachiewicz
Michele Backus Amie Lucier

Richard Black, H Heather Mahaney
Kristen Bonnema Michael Malinzak
Amanda Cannon Elianna Marziani
Kristin Carroll Abigail Montgomery
Benjamin Dickson Matthew Petrusek
Emily Dixon Susan Ruge

Shelby Fierke Jesse Rockoff

Gerald Guilbert, Jr. Meredith Jane Sorensen
Wade Hess Alison Marie Trinidad
Sara Heusel

Kenneth Hickman

Heather Howard

THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE
TO PICK UP AN OLD CALYX!

Contact Neal at wi||ettsr@wlu.edu
by Tuesday morning (March 13) to reserve a copy.
1960 - 2000 editions available!

I ' L XINGTON

( I n‘ --if I I
. /fa (ml 011/ (wt;/)1/III/gy

FRESH EACH MORNING
ESPRESSO ° CAPPUCCINO ° FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ° FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON ° 464-6586

Dance Lessons

Will he held
Tuesday and Thursday nights
from 7:30 to 8:30

in the mezzanine level room in between the Dining Hall and the
University Center. Sherri Ludt, Lexiugton’s extremely talented
professional dance instructor will continue to teach students any
dance they desire: Waltz, llha-cha, lihumha, Meringue, Swing...
and many morell Dont miss your chance to improve on your
dancing skills in time for Fancy llressll

 

PAGE 5

  

 

 

PAGE 6

W&L Wins

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team slammed
Ferrum 27-0 on Thursday and then
improved to 2-0 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference with a 9-8 over-
time win over Randolph-Macon at
home on Saturday.

The 27-0 road win set school
records for margin of victory and
goals in a game. Freshmen Joanna
Perini and Annie Tompkins split time
in goal, combining for ﬁve saves to
shut out Ferium.

Senior attacker Liz Borges scored six
goals and assisted on three others to
lead the W&L offense. Junior attacker
Emily Owens and freshmen midﬁelders
Kelly Taffe and Lee Wheeler contrib-
uted three goals apiece, and sophomore
attacker Leslie Bogart tallied two goals
and three assists.

The Generals returned home on
Saturday to face stiffer competition,
eking out a 9-8 win over Randolph-
Macon on Taffe’s goal with 16 sec-
onds to play in overtime.

Bogart scored three goals, all in the
first half, as W&L sprinted out to a 5-
2 lead at the break. Randolph-
Macon’s Megan Keyser led the way

in the second half as the Yellow Jack-

@112 Ring-tum iﬂlit

S PORTS

blowout, OT contest

 

THE OPEN FIELD. Freshman Lee Wheeler (right) chases Randolph-Macon’s Lisa Weitzel in

Washington and Lee’s 9-8 overtime home win on Saturday.

ets reeled off four unanswered goals
for a 6-5 lead with 8:31 to play.
Senior attacker Ellen Ritsch tied the
game for W&L just over two minutes
later, and Owens put the Generals up

7-6 at the 4:47 mark. Angela Bisland
netted her second goal of the game
with 1:20 left, forging a 7-7 tie.
Wheeler’s goal put W&L up with
2:41 remaining in the ﬁrst overtime.

Men’s team starts win streak

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
AT YOUR SERVICE. Junior Andrew Roberts
serves in the Generals’ 7-0 win over ODAC
opponent Hampden-Sydney on Wednesday.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

Keyser tied the game with less than a
minute left, but Taffe’s goal put the
Generals up seconds later.

W&L will face Guilford on the road
at 4 p.m. on Wednesday.

 

Questions, comrrients, or
suggestions? Contact
Jeremy Franklin at x4060.

secure the win.

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team improved
to 5-1 on the season with a string of four home matches
over the past ﬁve days.

W&L began the week with a 7-0 win over Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference opponent Hampden-Sydney on
Wednesday. Junior Rhys James defeated John Moss 3-6,
6-2. 6-4, and junior two-seed Andrew Roberts handled
Durell Carothers, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. Freshmen Austin Kim, Gra-
ham Nix, and K.C. Schaefer and sophomore Chase Bice
won their singles matches in straight sets. A

James and Roberts, Kim and Nix, and Schaefer and
junior Zac Vuncannon won their doubles matches handily
against the Tigers.

Christopher Newport came to town on Friday, and the
Generals handed the Captains a 6-1 loss. James lost to
Christopher Newport’s Jason Martin at the top seed, but
W&L did not lose another set on the afternoon.

Kim, Nix, junior Rob Moynihan, Bice, and sophomore
Chris Sorenson rounded out the singles lineup with wins
for the Generals. Kim and Nix, Schaefer and Vuncannon,
and Bice and Moynihan collected doubles victories.

W&L continued its non-conference schedule with a 5-
2 win over the College of Wooster on Saturday. James and
Roberts lost from the top two slots, but again W&L ben-
eﬁted from a strong bottom half of the lineup.

Kim knocked off Jake Sintich 6-3, 5-7, 6-2 from the third
seed, followed by victories from Nix, Schaefer, and
Sorenson. Sintich and Rob Ogg topped James and Rob-
erts in doubles, but Kim and Nix and Schaefer and
Vuncannon secured the doubles point for W&L.

The Generals finished up their week on Sunday with a
5-2 win over Denison. Jeroni Barnes topped James and
Cameron Vincent defeated Roberts from the one and two
seeds, but Kim, Nix, Schaefer, and Bice cleaned house to

Barnes and Chris Compton defeated James and Rob-
erts in number-one doubles, but Kim and Nix and Schaefer
and Vuncannon pulled out victories.

W&L hosts Kenyon at 3 p.m. on Tuesday.

  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 

_ 6 weeks, 6 credits, as low as $3,000 (based on‘ typical costs V
of tuition, room & board, books, and estimated airfare)

Term 1: May 21-June 29 - Term‘ 2: July 2-August_1O
www.outreach.hawaii.edu 7-‘toll-‘free, 1 (800) 862-6628-

University of Hawai‘i at Manda, Summer Sessions

 
 
 
 

  
     
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
   

MARCH 12, 2001 '

 
  
  

enerals stay perfect in 2001 .

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
IN THE AIR. Sophomore Alyson Brice prepares
to serve in W&L’s 8-1 victory over Hollins in
ODAC competition on Wednesday.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team re- V‘
mained undefeated in 2001 with home wins over Hollins
and Denison last week.

The Generals improved to 3-0 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference with an 8-1 victory over Hollins on ‘
Wednesday.

Sophomore Erika Proko, junior Melissa Hatley, sopho-
more Alyson Brice, junior Sallie Gray Strang, freshman
Liz Law, and freshman Emily Taylor won singles matches
in straight sets for W&L. Y

In doubles competition, Hollins’ Anne Stevenson and
Alice Moss topped Proko and Hatley 8-5, the Generals’
ﬁrst dropped ODAC match since March 1997. Brice and
Strang defeated Liz and Cayce Schnare in number-two
doubles, and sophomore Bonnie Goldsmith and fresh-
man Ellie Simpson knocked off Molly and Bess Kelly at
the third seed.

W&L stepped out of conference for the first time this
season on Sunday, pulling out a 6-3 win over Denison. p

Sophomore Laura Bruno, sophomore Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth, Brice, and Law won the second through
ﬁfth—seeded singles matches.

Lauren Gerlach topped Hatley 1-6, 7-6 (6), 6-1 in num-
ber-one seed singles, and Lisa Carlton handed Strang a
4-6, 6-3, 6-3 loss from the sixth seed.

Gerlach and Alison Hughes topped Proko and Hatley
in number-one doubles for Denison’s third point. Bruno
and Strang topped Kristen Hanto and Molly Smith, and y
Brice and Wedgeworth knocked off Carlton and Valeria
Muradov.

The Generals will take on Kenyon at home on Tues-
day at 3:30 p.m.

a.
Washington and Lee
I I 
Squash Championship
Divisions: Mens and Women’s Divisions
Dates: March 19, 20, 21, 22 ' «V
Ii_m_e: Matches will be palyed between 6 and 9 PM on the ‘
above dates
Courts: # 1-6 (100) level —- Doremus Gym ,.
Rules: USSRA RULES APPLY -- Players will make their own
calls
All matches are first to win 3 games
Eyeguards are required 7’
_aﬁ: Soft ball (equipment: use own or sign out at window)
' i - Students, Faculty, Staff, Alumni
Entry Deadlin : March 17, 5:00 PM (Must sign up at equipment
room window third level - Doremus Gym)
L1_c>t_e: This will be a single elimination format. Please include :4
your playingltournament history on entry form. Pairings will be
based on information received.
Master Schedule (Pairings and Time)will be located at hallway ,,,.
(First Floor -- Squash Courts)

 

‘MARCH 12, 2001

  S

@112 illing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

‘, Two W&L grapplers, team
receive scholarly recognition

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Senior wrestler Josh Chamberlain and junior teammate

* ‘ Ezra Morse were named to the National Wrestling Coaches

Association of America Division III Academic All-
America team this week.

In addition to the individual recognitions, the Gener-
als placed 15th in the Division IH Top 20 Scholar Teams,
recording an overall 3.062 grade point average.

“This recognition means a lot to the team and to me,”
Morse said. “I believe it dispels the myth of wrestlers
being ‘dumb’ athletes. At W&L, it takes a lot of dedica-

W&L stomps Southern

Virginia, splits ODAC

doubleheader with Guilford
( By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee baseball team extended its
‘ winning streak to eight games before falling to Guilford in
the second game of a doubleheader on Saturday.

The Generals (9-2, 3-1 Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence) knocked off Southern Virginia at home on Wednes-
day to win their seventh straight. Freshman Mike Wert

Vi secured his first collegiate win by yielding just two hits
over six innings.

W&L jumped on the board early, as junior third
baseman Matt Kozora smacked a two—run single in
the first inning, scoring sophomore shortstop
Michael Hanson and freshman center fielder Austin
Allain. '

Sophomore first baseman Brian Gladysz pushed the
lead to 5-0 in the second with a double that knocked in

If Allain and Kozora. Hanson provided the ﬁnal margin in
the following inning by driving in sophomore second
baseman Richard Campbell and sophomore left fielder
Dan Kagey O O ;. O O

X The Generals then proceeded to travel to Greensboro,
N .C., where they split a doubleheader with ODAC foe
Guilford.

Senior righthander David Sigler tossed his third
complete game of the year to lead W&L to a 6-3 win in

4 the first game. Sophomore designated hitter Kyle Drop-

tion on an athlete’s part to be able to participate in a var-
sity sport because of the heavy workload.

“The team as a whole puts in a lot of effort in both the
matroom and the classroom.”

Chamberlain concurred with his teammate’s opinion.

“It’s nice to be recognized for academic and athletic
achievement, and I think it means a lot for the team to win
academic All—American honors,” Chamberlain said. “It
shows that we do something besides wrestle. Other teams
know that we don’t go here simply for athletics, and rec-
ognition for that is satisfying.”

Chamberlain complemented his 19-1 1 record on the mat‘

with a cumulative 3.895 GPA off of it. The 149-pounder
recorded a second—place showing at the W&L Invitational
on Jan. 20 and third-place ﬁnishes at the Newport News
Apprentice Invitational on F eb.3 and the Centennial Con-
ference Championship on Feb. 17.

The senior, whose 19 near falls led the Generals in 2000-

 «Wrestling academic for Generals

O1, ended his W&L career with a 62-44 record.

“Individually, I thinkl could have done a little better,”
Chamberlain said of his on-court performance. “The team
had a winning dual record even though we lost a couple
of close ones.

“The conference tournament was a little disappointing
on the whole, but we did have our first conference winner
and national qualifier (freshman Joe Mueller) since 1989.”

Morse posted a 20-3 record on the season, including
marks of 11-1 in dual meets and 4-1 in Centennial competi-
tion. The junior has maintained a 3.264 GPA while leading
the squad in takedowns with 37 and pins with seven.

The 197-pounder won his weight class at the VMI
Keydet Invitational on Nov. 12 and the Scranton Touma-
ment on Dec. 2. Morse ﬁnished second at the Newport
News invite.

The Generals ﬁnished the season with a 6-5-1 record in
dual competition, 3-3 in the Centennial.

  “Generals continue swift stat on the diamod

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

TIMELY RETURN. Freshman centerjielder Austin. Allain dives back into first base, beating the
throw to Southern Virginia’s Charles Moline in the Generals’ 7-0 victory on Wednesday.

pers batted 2-for-4 with a run and one batted in, and
four Generals crossed the plate in the fourth inning in
the victory.

Although Hanson led off the second game with a home

run, the Quakers’ eight—run sixth inning put the Generals
away in a 12-3 loss. Kagey was shelled for six runs and
nine hits over ﬁve innings.

W&L will host Westminster at 3 p.m. on Wednesday.

Baseball

March 13
March 14
March 17
March 18
March 21
March 24

at Mary Washington
Westminster
Harnpden-Sydney (2)
West Virginia Tech (2)
Bridgewater

at Randolph-Macon (2)

Golf
Mar. 12-13 at Ferrum Spring Invitational
March 21 W&L ODAC Invitational

Men’s Lacrosse

March 13 at Dickinson

March 18 Franklin and Marshall
March 24 at Virginia Wesleyan

Upcoming events in Washington and Lee athletics

Women’s Lacrosse

March 14 at Guilford

March 17 Virginia Wesleyan
March 22 at Roanoke V
March 24 at Mary Washington

Men’s Swimming
Mar. 15-17 at NCAA Championships

Men’s Tennis

March 13 Kenyon

March 15 Mary Washington
March 16 at Guilford

March 18 Washington College
March 19 Eastern Mennonite
March 21 at Averett

Women’s Tennis
March 13
March 15
March 17
March 19

Kenyon

Bloomsburg

Franklin and Marshall
Eastern Mennonite
at Bridgewater

March 20 Lynchburg

PAGE 7

at Sweet Briar
Roanoke
at Randolph-Macon Woman’s

For up-to-date information on
W&L athletics, including scores,
schedules, and statistics, visit the

Washington and Lee Sports

Information Website at
www.w|u.edu/sports/

March 21

Men’s and Women’s Outdoor Track
March 17 W&L Invitational
March 24 at Roanoke Invitational

CAMP COUNSELORS

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

Archery, Baseball, Basketball,_Climbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, lnline—Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

888-2-romaca

www.campromaca.com

Camp Greylock
for Boys:

1-800-842-5214

www.campgreylock.com

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT

10 student apartments
available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enjoy country living
at its finest.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm
at 540-463-6575
or 540-463-2868.

 

 

PAGE 8 I

I am the Christian
the Devil warned
you about

@112 Ring-tum iﬁltt

LASTWORD

MARCH 12, 200 I

6

Last moth-{Hunt-Climrz-Erihuttr-Svrntinrl-Ettilgr  

WORLD

Global Architectural Coahtion
criticizes Indian building quality

After the 7.9 magnitude earthquake wreaked havoc
upon residential areas in Gujarat, India, the UN formed the
Global Archetectural Coalition to investigate the wide-
spread failure of their architectural safeguards.

The Coalition delivered its findings Saturday, stating
that the people of India should signiﬁcantly change their
building code standards.

Chairman Hassim Punj abidabi (Pakistan) delivered the
coalition’s ﬁndings Saturday, “Building materials such as
bricks and steel are much too heavy and could harm resi-
dents if they collapse. Thus we recommend India utilize

lighter materials such as styrofoam and balsa wood in the
construction of all urban high—density housing projects.”

NATION

Jackson promises to check self
to prevent riggity-wreckage

After Rev. Jesse Jackson soured the
minds of the general public with the men-
tal image of him engaging in the various
activities needed to create a “Luv Child,”
few media experts imagined that he could drag
his integrity any lower. Everyone except the
. National Enquirer was shocked when it was

 
 
 
 
 
 

found that one of Rev. J ackson’s many non—proﬁt organiza-
tions paid his mislress $35,000 in severance pay.

The revelation that Rev. J ackson’s organizations may
not be respectable sent shockwaves through the conser-
vative community.

Rush Limbaugh was rumored to have said, “although I
have not always agreed with Rev. Jackson, my respect for
both the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition and the Citizenship Edu-
cation Fund have never wavered before today. Now, though,
I have serious doubts about how those groups are using
their money to advance their vast liberal agenda.”

Fellow companion in debauchery Bill Clinton stands
by J ackson. Although Clinton mentioned he found it ironic
that during the very time he was seeking spiritual advice
from Jackson over his intern inﬁdelity, Jackson was taking
a dip in his clerical pool.

The question remains whether Jackson will open the
accounting books of his various organizations. It is ex-
pected that the contents of the books will remain clandes-
tine to prevent the public from ﬁnding out that the organi-
zations are really just a cover-up.

The FBI is currently investigating Jackson for partici-
pating in a nationwide breeding program in an attempt to
create an army of verbose, meddling Baptist ministers.

The question has arisen as to whether the allegations of
J ackson’s corruption will affect his chances of being elected
president. According to Williain Diehner, an Assistant Pro-
fessor at Stamford Department of Politics, the allegations
will have absolutely no effect, “Jesse Jackson had a
Dixiecrat’s chance in hell of being elected President to begin
with; thus, nothing could realistically hurt his chances.”

Jackson plans to revisit his organizations’ various tax
returns and make certain amendments to their contents
so he doesn’t end up some bad man’s boyfriend in prison.

LOCAL

SAE’s lose home, inner peace

The SAE fraternity was
struck by a surprise ruling
last week when the house
was notiﬁed by the Univer-
sity that it was being sus-
pended indeﬁnitely from the
campus. The SAE’s will not
be able to hold meetings at
their house, throw parties,
or continue their
pledgeship. Fortunately,
SAE doesn’t throw any
huge parties spring term and a large portion of the frater-
nity lives off campus.

An SAE was conjectured as saying, “Well, can’t say
that I am in favor of the punishment at all, but it could
have been worse. We really lucked out with the fact that
the punishment didn’t interfere with Christmas Weekend,
Rush, or most of pledgeship. I don’t want to get religious
or anything, but I think we are Buddha 3" Chosen People.
I mean somebody has to be looking out for us to have that
kind of luck, right? Who else would it be other than the
Supreme Enlightened One?”

The administration has yet to decide if it will forbid SAE
brothers from participating in silent meditation in the house.

An anonymous administrative source has elaborated
on the deliberations, “We haven’t been able to decide if
allowing the brothers to engage in the search for inner peace
is appropriate. What sort of effect will our punishment have
if they irninunize their souls to all worldly suffering? They’ d

 

really have our balls in a salad shooter with that one. I

mean, we’ve already annexed their fraternity and their?

government leader has been exiled, but faith in the Bud-
dha may protect them —— look at how the Chinese failed
with Tibet.
University President Giovanni Elroddo said SAE woul

be reinstated as soon as their most prestigious alum, G.
Montgomery Tuckworth XXIV, made a sizable donation
for the construction of the new University Virtual Reality
Playpen.

AMS& 

Disney mtroduces new annnationv

Disney introduced a new canine companion to
stand among such giants as Goofy and Pluto. Jean-
Francoise deBonze, will star in » --
the upcoming film “Dog Cage.”
The movie focuses on the life of
young, transsexual show-dog
J ean-Francoise (voiced by Emilio
Estevez) and his attempt to raise
his bitch (voiced by Claire
Danes) in urban New Orleans.

According to director
Stephano Spielpergo, the film
will be a heart-warrning tale of I
love, heart-break, and canine-sexuality. Criticized for
similarities to the French novel, La Cages aux Folles,
Spielbergo assures that, like all Disney movies, it will
be completely original.

— all graphics courtesy of www.lycos.multimedia.c0m

VISA, MASTERCARD,
STUDENT CHARGE ACCEPTED

lutn-43121111195. 11111:.
in: M. llﬂzuilttngton S71.
453-53 3 3
RENT OR BUY YOUR TUXEDO NOW FOR FANCY DRESS!
WE ALSO SELL THE ACCESSORIES:

curnmberbund/tie sets
fancy Vests
jewelry
ﬂasks
tux shirts

  
  
  

221 South MainStreet  

Interested in black and white photography  
processing, and printing?      
Rent Andre Studio Inc.

Lexington, Virgina  

IT’S THAT TIME or YEAR AGAIN!
IT’S MARCH MADNESS!
THE BIG DANCE ./
AN0 You CAN SEE IT _A__LL AT 13. J. ‘5
wE WILL HAVE THE ENTIRE NCAA
T0uRNAMENT 0N 0uR SCREENS:

ALSO 00N’T MISS THE ST. RATTY5
DAY PARTY AT 8. J. ‘s AND THE
f{c977ZfT LERRECHAuN C0NTEsT.
$150.00 CASH PRIZES

(540) 453-2139  

—-. 1

 

RETIREMENT  MUTUAL FUNDS .T_TI.usT”sisn.vI‘t"E5i TUITION FINANEING

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"
doesn't apply to taxes.

That’s because investments that aren't eroded by taxes
can add up to significantly more money for you—
money you can use to supplement your pension and
Social Security

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax—saving so|utions——along with TIAA-CREF‘s
low expenses and solid history of performance-can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

Tax— deferred solutions
from TIAA-CREF Can
help you reach your

retirement goals faster.

TAX EIEFEHHAI. MAKESADIFFEHENEE 

§102,068

Tax-deferred savings after taxes‘

 
  
  
   

$67,514

After-tax savings

per month 0 y P‘

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns I,’
and principal value of investments will fluctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart a ve is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reflect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reﬂect expenses.

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

1.800.842.2776 il

www.tiaa-cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. 0 TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products.
0 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (T IAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. - TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Associatlon—Co|lege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04

‘V.

 

 
 

 

l

f .
:0

 

