Arch

  

 

{F 378. “I55
R552.

R

1

x/.{«CI’3,

 U112 lling-tum

v":*3. «

I

WASHINGTON AND LEE UN1vERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

      
 

MES 8. LEYBI
HIITJQJTO

VOLUME 103, No. 9

Peeping Tom
spotted

By Latrina Stokes

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee women living on McDowell
Street reported two cases of peeping ‘within the past
two weeks. I

The most recent peeping incident occurred on Wednes-
day, Sept. 27, around 7:45 p.m. The student, who wishes
to remain anonymous, was parking her car at the back of

her apartment building when she saw someone walk up '

the far side of the U-shaped drive.

“The driveway on the left is like a dark abyss,” she
said. “[From there] a rniddle—aged man came speed-walk-
ing out of the darkness towards me.”

The student was aware that one of the other student
residents reported a Peeping Tom two weeks earlier. “I
thought maybe this was him, so I stayed in my car and
watched him in the headlights.”

She said he began to walk away, but continued to give
her uneasy glances.

“Maybe he got nervous about me, because he bent
down and picked up a big stick.” He then walked out of
her view. The student then gathered her belongings,
locked her car, and ran toward the steps of her second
story apartment.

While she was trying to unlock the door, the man reap-
peared. “He was frantically shouting, ‘Ma’am! Ma’am!’ I
didn’t know what he wanted, but he kept trying to get my
attention,” she said.

Though she said the man did not come up the stairs or
attempt to follow her into the apartment, the encounter
scared her.

“I was visibly frightened,” she said. “ He’d have to be
a complete and utter moron not to see that.”

After telling her roommate about the encounter, she
called the police to file a complaint.

Two weeks earlier the police were called to the same
apartment building on McDowell Street. A W&L stu-
dent living on the first floor of the building was in her
bedroom when she spotted someone looking at her
through the window. When’ she went outside to con-
front the peeper, he was gone. She then called the po-
lice.

The two students, in comparing accounts of the sepa-
rate incidents, discovered that the descriptions of the
“Peepers” did not match up to be the same individual.

According to Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard,
about six “Peeping Tom” cases are reported in Lexington
every year.

“I think it’s terrible,” Beard said. “It takes a sick person
to do something like this.” .

Peeping or spying into a dwelling is a Class 1
rnisdearneaner under the Virginia State code. Three con-
victions in ﬁve years results in a Class 6 felony.

After the second incident occurred, new locks have
been installed on all outside "doors of the apartment build-
ing. Floodlights have been installed where trees block the
light of the streetlamps, and lights with motion detectors
have been added in the parking lot.

Lexington police have increased partols in the neigh-
borhood. Washington and Lee security now include
McDowell Street as part of their patroling rounds.

Pole House

. photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
POLICE LINE DO NOT CROSS. The Pole House

parking lot was the scene of the recent thefts
of credit cards, wallets, and purses.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

LEXINGTON RESIDENTS IN HISTORICAL DISTRICT. History Professor Taylor Sanders and his dog,
Marco Polo, pose in front of their home on Preston Street.

New regulations proposed for
“historic” residential area

By Mike Agnello

STA FF WRITER

A historic section of Lexington,
home to numerous Washington and
Lee professors, was the subject of de-
bate at a meeting of the Lexington City
Planning Commission on Thursday
night.

An advisory committee headed by
Carol Wheeler, wife ofW&L Account-
ing Professor Lyn Wheeler, and in-
cluding Art Professor Pamela
Simpson, proposed designating the

neighborhood surrounding the his-‘

toric downtown as a National Historic
District. Most of central Lexington is
already designated “historical,” but
is not subject to many additional regu-
lations. The new designation would
require residents to apply for permits
if they wish to construct additions to
any part of their property visible from
the street or tear down their houses.

Journalism Professor Ham Smith,
a resident of the neighborhood, also
supports the proposal.

“The historic designation will. . .
provide a mechanism whereby the
residents of that area and the city in
general has some sort of mechanistic
or bureaucratic oversight from pre-
venting. . . bad things from occur-

ring,” Smith said.

Simpson, who was invited to serve
on the committee because of her back-
ground as an architectural historian,
said that some of the homes are nearly
two hundred years old, and that the
current laws do not do enough to pro-
tect the property. She said that the
only restriction residents have is that
they cannot use federal funds to tear
down a building deemed historical by
the government.

“The only place that [restriction]
affects is VMI," Simpson said. .

Committee member Lewis Tyree
pointed out that the Col Alto build-
ing on Nelson Street was almost torn
down a few years ago, and that a few
minor restrictions could prevent more
modern buildings inconsistent with
Lexington’s architecture from being
built in place of the older homes.

“If we allow something like that to
happen, we’re likely to have a very
strong reaction. . . we’re much better
off having a sensible rule now,” he
said.

Many residents disagree, and are
resisting the regulation of their prop-
erty, saying that improving one’s prop-
erty is the sole decision of the owner.

“The right to property is one of
the most sacred rights we have in this

country,” said eight-year Lexington
resident Harry Hughes.

Tyree says he understands the
concerns of the homeowners, but that
preserving the city’s beauty takes pre-
cedence.

“We’ ve been lucky up till now, and
we can’t count on being lucky for-
ever,” he said.

The advisory committee drafted a
brochure that illustrated which areas
would be covered under the designa-
tion and what changes residents
would be allowed to make to their
homes. Though it explicitly states that
residents will have complete author-

ity overpchanges such as paint, they

will have to apply for permits if they
wish to make other improvements
deemed “significant” by their neigh-
bors. Hughes worries about this.

“‘Signiﬁcant’ is deﬁned in the eyes
of the beholder,” he said.

W&L History Professor Taylor
Sanders, also a resident of the
neghborhood, said he has not made
up his mind about the proposal, but
is wary of increased restrictions. Al-
though he trusts the people on the
committee now, he worries that sev-
eral years in the future things will

SEE ‘HISTORIC’ ON PAGE 2

automobiles burgled

Adelman said her address book was also inside of the

By Emily Barnes

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Two weeks after valuables were stolen out of their ve-
hicles, residents of the Pole Houses are still waiting to
ﬁnd out what happened to their belongings.

Seniors Laura Adelman, Becca Dupps, Faith Collins,
Stuart Crigler, and Marlea Leary were inside of their Pole
House at 207 Furrs Mill Road when several items were
stolen from their unlocked vehicles on Sept. 17. They said
the burglary occurred between 8:30 and 1 1:30 p.m. while
they were inside of their house.

“We were all here watching the Olympics,” Adelman said.

Adelman was the first to discover that her bag was
missing from her Volvo. She said that after she realized
she had not misplaced the bag, she reported -the bur-
glary to the Rockbridge County Sheriff ’s Department
early on Monday Sept. 18. The other residents discov-
ered that valuables were missing from their vehicles
and reported their discovery to the Sheriff ’s Depart-
ment later that day.

“Basically all of my notes and my school books were in
there,” Adelman said. '

bag. She said she suspects that the robber stole the bag
thinking that there was money inside of it.

“I’m sure that they thought there was a wallet in there,”
she said.

Crigler’s wallet, containing $40, two credit cards, and
three gas cards was stolen out of her Honda Civic.

“[The burglar] cut off the lights and didn’t shut the
door all the way,” Crigler said. *

The back right door of Dupps’ Jeep was left open
by the robber and the lights were turned off. Dupps
said the robber opened her CD case but did not steal
any of the CDS. Her portable CD player was also left
inside of the car.

The robber rummaged through Leary’s Jeep, but did not
take her CDS or cellular phone.

Collins’ straw purse was stolen from her Honda Civic.

The residents were outside cooking dinner on their
deck from 6 to 7:30 p.m. before the incident occurred. They
did not see anyone suspicious in the area at that time.

According to Rockbridge County Lt. Larry Conner, the
robbery is still under investigation.

Senior Adam Baker’s wallet was stolen out of his
bookbag in his unlocked Ford Bronco on the same night

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2000

that the other incidents occurred.

“I didn’t bother filing a report because it’s not worth
it,” Baker said. “The joke’s on them. There’s only six bucks
in there.”

Baker, who lives in the Pole House at 199 Furrs Mill
Road, said that he is now taking the extra precaution of
locking his car door all of the time.

The 207 F urrs Mill Road residents said that they initally
felt safe about leaving their vehicle doors unlocked at home
because they felt secure about the safety of the Pole House
block.

“It’s an open area,” Crigler said.

The residents said that they were accustomed to the
Honor Code rules that apply to the Washington and Lee
campus, and they thought it was acceptable to leave the
doors unlocked. _

“You get in that mindset . . .you think it would be OK to
leave your books [unattended]. . .the Honor System makes

A me feel lax about things like that,” Adelman said.

They said that they are more concerned now with their

-personal safety than with replacing the stolen items.

“All of that stuff can be replaced, “ Crigler said.
“Just the fact that they were so close to the house
scares us.” ‘

(J11: Bing-tum iﬂlii

October 2, 2000

 

 

 

Generals Féotball:
4-0, a first fnce 1961

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi R

NEWS

OCTOBER 2, 2000

 

  

By Mehul Srivastava

STAFF WRITER

Olympic drugs

This year’s Olympics concluded yesterday with an-
other bang. International Olympic Committee President
Juan Antonio Samaranch declaring this the best games
ever.

After two weeks of non-stop action, the games ended
as the last marathon runner made his way into the sta-
dium. But more than anything else, this year’s games will
be remembered as the year of doping. ‘

Eight athletes were stripped of their medals, and more
than 3,600 tests were run. The saddest story is that of 16
year-old Romanian gold medalist Andrea Raducan, whose
gymnastics medal was taken away after she tested posi-
tive for doping because she took cold medicine prescribed
by her doctor.

The IOC admitted it was being harsh and controversy
continues as the Romanian Olympics committee refuses
to ban her.

41 would-be Olympic atheletes were caught cheating
even before they made it to the Olympics, and a Romanian
hammer thrower was sensationally escorted from the ﬁeld
just minutes before her event.

Even more controversial are the allegations that the
United States is hiding drug use among its athletes, espe-
cially in track and ﬁeld events.

Investigations are probing charges that the US Olym-
pics committee sent athletes to the Olympics knowing
that they were abusing drugs. These charges have been
vehemently denied.

Violence in Jerusalem

More than 27 Palestinians died in protests against the
visit of Ariel Sharon, leader of Israel’s right wing party, to
the Temple Mount, which is Is1am’s third holiest shrine.
More than 700 Palestinians and 11 Israeli soldiers were
injured.

A 12-year-old boy was killed in the crossﬁre, as his
father was shot in the chest trying to shield him. An am-
bulance worker also died trying to rescue both of them.
The father is expected to recover from his injuries.

Sharon was found indirectly responsible for the killing
of hundreds of Palestinian refugees in 1983 when he was
defense minister during the Israeli invasion of Lebanon.

Most analysts blame the violence on the sensitivity
over the issue of control of religous sites. While Israeli

iH1sIoRn"’
FROM PAGE 1
change.

“I’m not as much concerned about my neighbors
as I am about the government,” he said, and warned
residents that such actions can lead to a “slippery
slope” of increased laws and regulations.

Smith, who has a master’s degree in American Gov-
ernment, says he does not agree.

“The slippery slope argument is not a good one
because then any law at all is the beginning of a slip-
pery slope,” he said.

Sanders served in an advisory capacity with the
Virginia Historical Commission thirty years ago when
it designated dowtown Lexington as a historical area,
and says he has seen the beneﬁts of such a designa-
tion.

“Over the years, [the designation] has helped im-
prove the town. . . the neighborhood is wonderful,” he
said.

Simpson also says that she does not think the
comrnittee’s proposal goes too far.

“Basically, [we’re] trying to extend some sort of
protection in to the neighborhood. . . it’s very limited
[in its scope].”

Bob Lawrence, a retired dentist, strongly disagrees,
claiming that in preparing the brochure the committee
has glossed over important details that will greatly
affect the lives of Lexington residents.

“It’s not what’s in there, it’s what’s not. . . this thing
has been sprinkled with pixie dust,” he said.

 
    

\

t.Tl-IE1 VVORLD

THIS VVEEK

prime minister Ehud Barak and Palistinian leaderYasir
Arafat continue to talk, trying to quiet down the vio-
lence, street ﬁghts continued near Joseph’s tomb and
other parts of the embattled city.

Death tolls reach 900 in India

In India alone close to 900 people are dead due to the
worst ﬂooding the eastern part of the country has seen
in decades.

As water levels recede, sanitation problems and the
rotting carcasses of farm animals are also causing health
problems.

Almost 18 million have lost their homes, just days
before one of the nation’s most widely celebrated festi-
vals, Durga Puja. Some people have been marooned on
roof tops for almost two weeks while the army struggles
to distribute rations and water puriﬁcation tablets.

A quarter of neighboring Bangladesh is also under
water, with no ofﬁcial death counts made. But it is be-
coming clear that the damage to crops will have strong
repurcussions in both countries. ‘

Euro rejected

Danish voters dealt a strong blow to European inte-
gration by rejecting a proposal to accept the Euro as
their currency. The Euro, which has steadily lost value
for the last two years, now stands around 88 cents to
the United States dollar.

1 1 countries out of 15 European Union members, have
accepted the Euro as their ofﬁcial currency and the rejec-
tion could slow down the momentum for integration.

By a margin of 53 to 47, Denmark joined Britain and
Sweden in choosing to hold on to their currency in 2002,
when the rest of the EU switches to the Euro. The EU
hopes to bring all of Europe under the same legislative,
economic, and trade umbrella, in an attempt to consoli-
date the industrial prowess of the continent.

The top Olympic medal-wimiing countries

The United States won 97 medals. Russia won 88.
China won 59. Australia won 58. Germany won 57.
France won 38. Italy won 34. Cuba won 29. Great
Britain won 28. South Korea won 28. Rumania won 26.
The Netherlands won 23. Ukraine won 23. Japan 18.
Hungary won 17. Belarus won 17. Poland won 14.
Canada won 14. Bulgaria won 13. Greece won 13. Swe-
den won 12. Brazil won 12. Spain won 1 1. Norway won
10. Switzerland won 9.

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

Go, GENERALS. Washington and Lee students show off their spirit and fashion sense cheering
on the football team as it cruises to an easy victory over Randolph Macon. The Generals are
now the first ranked team in the Old Dominion Conference. Read more about it on page seven.

 

W&L authors share hunting and

ﬁshing stories

Field Notes: Reﬂections of Hunters and Anglers,a col-
lection of stories about hunting and ﬁshing, has recently
been published. A total of 20 authors, all with ties to Wash-
ington and Lee, contributed stories to the project which was
sponsored by the Leyburn Fund. Copies of the book are
available in the bookstore for $14.95. Courtesy W&L Website

Heather Ross Miller publishes

memoirs

Heather Ross Miller, the Thomas H. Broadus Jr. Profes-
sor of English at Washington and Lee, is the author of
Crusoe’s Island: A Story of a Writer and a Place (Coastal
Carolina Press), a memoir on her experiences living and writ-
ing in a North Carolina state park. This is her seventh book
published in the last 10 years. Courtesy W&L Website

 

aught!

Matthew McDermott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Six members of the Cadaver Society were surprised
and two unmasked when eight freshmen football play-
ers, hiding in the bushes around Wilson ﬁeld, appre-
hended them past midnight before they could spray-
paint the ﬁeld before the Randolph Macon game.

“I could recognize them if I saw them again,” said
one of the freshmen, who asked to be left unnamed.
“If they want to buy me off, that’d be great.”

After their capture, the Cadavers, reported to be
seniors Tyler Jorgensen and Phillip Wright, told the
freshmen “that they didn’t mean any disrespect-—it
was just tradition.” After the freshmen left, the Ca-
davers ﬁnished spraying the ﬁeld.

The Cadaver Society, formed in 1957 as a social
club that provided anonymous ﬁnancial aid to Wash-
ington and Lee students, is best known for its 1988
$100,000 behest to the Fraternity Renaissance pro-

gram.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

COUNSELING SUPPORT GROUP FOR
WOMEN IN RECOVERY FROM
SEXUAL ASSAULT

A confidential support group sponsored by the University Counseling
Service will begin meeting weekly for Washington and Lee women
who have experienced sexual/abuse, inlcuding severe sexual harassment,
at any time in their lives. Each member will sign an agreement of
conﬁdentiality at the first meeting. Please call Carol Calkins,
the Counseling Service secretary, at X8590 or the Health Service
at X8401 to learn of the time and location.

 

X

 

OCTOBER 2, 2000

  U

@1112 tiling-tum jtllii

PINION

PAGE 3

Construction persists,
patience wears thin  

There will soon be even more.
Reid Hall will be renovated next
year, moving all journalism classes
into modular buildings. The music
department will be moving into a
new building in a

  

4th year Sophomore
Geoffrey White ’05

few years. There
are plans in the
works for a new

Most people, I am sure, would
agree that the campus of Washing-
ton and Lee is one of the most beau-
tiful places on earth. Its columns will
forever remind us of the classes, fra-
ternities, and .. .
organizations  « -I

that defined ‘ 

who we were  "

for four years. i

(Or, in my case, six or so years.) Un-
fortunately, there is also the continu-
ous construction.

Last year, we all waited patiently
as the parking garage and sorority
houses were completed. We tried to
ignore the noise and the eyesore of
the construction on our way to tail-
gating, athletic practice, or other ex-
tracurricular “activities” at the Ru-
ins. We try not to pay attention to
the construction crane, which
seems to be permanently parked on
the plaza. This year, residents of
Woods Creek are trying to ignore
the gaping hole where the road
used to be.

Now we find out that we must wait
even longer; the sorority houses are
still not completed. Some people
could not move in on time, some wake
up every morning to construction
crews. The worst part is, the columns
of those beautiful sorority houses we

  

. always maintained.

University Com-
mons.

Despite the efforts to make our
campus beautiful, it is instead being
given it the feel of a permanent con-
struction zone. This is not a unique
situation. Most universities across
the country are expanding. The
booming economy permits us the
luxury of these extensive projects,
most of which are genuinely needed
to keep up the standard of excellent
education Washington and Lee has

i What I propose is this: After the
sorority houses are finally fin-
ished, after our little road by‘
Woods Creek has been restored,
after the roof of Washington Hall
is replaced, let’s have a campus
appreciation week. N o cranes, no
bulldozers, no early-morning
wake-up calls by construction
crews. Let’s enjoy the beauty of
our campus in its entirety. After

 

Graphics Editor
Online Editor
Business Manager

otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi

Colin Mitchell
Monica Schoenthaler
Ginger Phillips

Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications
Board elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
in that week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

 

 

By Christine Metzger

From comments I received about last week’s col-
umn, I will assume that I am not the only person who
believes in the current crisis state of fashion at W&L.

I’ve also realized that the paltry advice in my last
column merely scratched the surface of a very large
pimple. So, I’ve spent the past few days, in cognito,
disguised as a sick person in her pajamas (which I was),
taking special note of what you all are wearing. Boy,
do you guys need some help. Bring out the smelling

salts, defibrillators, oxygen masks but not the body

bags, yet.

As I said last week, there is hope, which I found this
week in sighting a leopard print coat, fabulous camel-
colored pumps, pais1ey—print capris, all being worn by
fine females on this campus. Good work, women!

For those of you less-skilled, here’s Cat’s Manda-
tory Fashion Advice, Part II (the unabridged version):

1. Capri pants are not the same thing as pants that are
too short for you. Capri pants are fashionable (again, NOT
on everyone), but pants that you outgrew (in two dimen-
sions) freshman year are not. _ _

2. Tapered ankle jeans. Boys, do not fear the bootleg
pant; trust me, they appear no more girly than appearing
to have your pants tucked into your shoes. And they’ll
make your butt and legs look sexy.

3. A corollary to last week’s no black socks with run-
ning shoes (and no, you can’t do it even if you’re wearing
pants): No white socks with leather shoes, non-sneaker
shoes, dress shoes. Your own mother would scold you for
it; it just looks tacky.

4. Give up the Tevas!

5. Set free your Adidas sport sandals!

waited so patiently for are of such that, the sound of machinery can . 6- Soho your gaudlly‘ooloroo» rnlnbowrlflo running
poor quality, they must be replaced. reign supreme once more, and the Photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor shoos (that you huyo _noVor» oyor run in) away foroyorl
S00na We Will try n01 t0 nntice as administration Can tear d0Wn and IT JUST KEEPS ON GOING. . . The portion of East Denny Circle in front of the 7‘ Whlte Sneakers 1" gen°ra1‘These are the one thmg
those Columns are rebuilt by some‘ build “P to lts uoartis °ont‘°~n_t- But Parking Garage is closed due to work related to the University Master Facili- that :0“ can Eltgn afnd theln g.0 a?1y1:l./hire IE1 lthe world

' 0“? hopefully more quallﬁedthanthe f°r_ ‘me Weehwhy Canlt we Slmply ties Plan, continuing the campus utility loop system. This phase of construc- ain av‘: a  Sdo lpelzp tetnn taA m.S O uages
original builders. enjoy what we already have? . . . . . . 83139 an say: o » oo 3 3 rnorloun oy aro
tion is estimated to be finished in two months. Until then, access to the park- not adnnnng your fashion Sense; they are wisningtney

ing garage will be limited to one entrance on the first floor closest to Route 60 could smack you upside the head with your glowing

and one lane on the fourth ﬂoor entrance behind the Warner Center. white Reehoks without causin an international inci-

‘ g
dent.
vote of the Week I . . f . . ....f.;::,‘:.‘:::‘;::.:‘;::.:i:;:::::::::::$.::::~;;:£‘.::
( C  V        hard, but for the love of all things holy, please cover
it y q y up those cold feet.

. 9.Ah,hNithf ' .W ’h be "fl

Who are you and Why 5° here’s the S°e“e“°= 1“ Sunday Butbasicaiiy» theiibrary is for Studr There is a plethora of ‘classrooms Sight the iiaey tfie ski: r:ii:::i:d ti:irtie:tg:an::tia:t

9 1 ' 9 night‘ You and_y°ur friends are Sitting lug’ not for talking Wailable Within the Coniinos of the week? A sea of the same coat, replicated in different col-

aren t you a In ' around’ gossiping about the past First and foremost you need to Colonnaoo We suggest you find 3 ors, a plenitude of styles and lengths. What a diverse

9‘ . . Weekend events’ or maybe’ ltis Sun‘ understand that tho “ﬁsh bowls” are nice cozy classroom in Newcomb. lace this is!
-—Anonymous twin girl to d ' h d I CC 1 ~ ‘ P ‘_ . _ .

b ay  t an you ' on group S not Sound Proof Everythlng you NeWCOIl'lb 0ffCrS  thC standard  Invgst lnagood rnln-or (full_1ength’ thrge-way),a_nd

cute oy working on a project. Either way, you say, from calculus to lame hook-up style of Classroom or the Seminar style use in please_ Fm not talking about people being unaware

9 9 _ and la numtblekri of 1 , _ol3ssroorn- Either Way you onnit go of some extra poundage hanging out on their rear side. I’m

4 £:(r)E:p:‘re iatlrllfr’    Wrong-t Asl in aftlgod lilonussllgt ltitiia talking about people putting together ridiculous outﬁts
, 0 _ _ oornPu or 3 W1 3 P ono u is and not looking into a mirror where they would instantly

D t  ‘S Opt ll   & K3116  ‘O1 lS I10t t0 discriminate against the SCl- realize thgir ggregious grrgl-_ A simple act’ 1'ga_l1y_

O    ﬁfmitf u,r pfglrﬁils’ onoo Center» the C'Sohool’ tho J" 11. Shop somewhere other than the holy trinity of

. i . atth fig“ re mg. ht b . .t t. _ , Schools Tuokora Paynoa or Robinson Abercrombie, J. Crew, and Banana (or substitute in your

‘   9 In B 1 rary you Hug 6 1m a mg a °°“"°“at‘9"S’ can a_nd W111 b.e uefud Hausa Wluoh also can accommodate favorite alternative). Speaking as someone who put in two
° lot ofpe0p1e' by your neighbors In the afuommg your groupis nooos years’ service at Aberland, the quality of their clothes is

Granted, there are some areas of fish bowls. So by default, if you’re The bottom hne is that you hood on par with Kman Thafs not a dis to the Big K, where I am

Leybum whereltis afceptable to. Carry listening to music’ you need to Wear to show your follow olassrnatos com‘ a regular shopper — at least they charge prices commen-

n Write a letter or editorial for the Phi!  l?eadln_l‘°"eS' H°re,1:iE"°t11°’; S"gg°s' ‘"0" °°urt°sy- Your ybur friends’ 0‘ surate I0 W0rth- Everyone Shopping at the Same Place

- t1on- you are Wor 8 W1 3 groulia fellow group members might sincerely ' w&L f th ' w d h d f 1 ’

ltis kopt to 3 Whisper: oyon the area do not us‘? the library The more care about your conversation, but no fg‘.-31,1:::us foh moreo atlcky on er tea 66 we re so

All submissions must be in by Friday at 5 p.m. around the first ﬂoor computers ls ok‘ people you have’ the louder It gets‘ One 6156 d0€s- 12. A newly added fashion accessory to the Lex
E_mal-I phl-@wh/Led“ or drop Offat University scene: cell phones. Puh-lease. One, do you realize how

‘~ absolutely ridiculous yourlook? This town is the size

Center room 208 . .

- of a postage stamp, bless it, and to be walking around
the Co-op or Hill with one attached to your ear makes
me want to throw things. At you. Unless, of course,

‘ you’re calling people with the urgent newsﬂash that
~ V you suck and should be drawn and quartered for being
all R. ' iﬂh- so gauche — by all means, go ahead. Two, you are
E 1   I also a hazard to your fellow students, namely me, when
Exm,m,6 Ed,«,0,S ‘ Stephanie man“, you are so busy yabbing away on your cell phone that
*1 Emily Barnes you nearly hit me in the parking garage, causing me to
News Editor Max Smith yell horrible, unprintable things, while you continue to
Am"“"' News Editor Ma“ M°D°""°“ have verbal diarrhea into your very small mobile (I
Opinions Editor Tara Ann Friedel _ , . Z

W&L,-fe Edna, Alexis Yee_Gal.cia know who you are, pray we don t meet in the parking

K Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin garage under the cover of darkness.)
‘ C0""‘I'bufI'ng Ediwrs ilvﬁfsica J0n<_‘—S Now that l’ve gotten that out of my system, I think
[Mr Word Edimr Br‘y°;‘:°1l:aSl;m°“d°“ I’ve made my point. Don’t cross me in the parking ga-

Phom Ed,-,0, Lisa Lin rage, and please think before you dress.

Staff Photographers Mary Guy It’s a dangerous world out there, kids, and I’m just

A A Martha Edwards here to protect you from bad fashion.

Just call me F.P.C. -— fashion police cat, sorta like a
firehouse dalmatian, only less slobber and a whole lot
more slink.

 What show would you like to see on W&L’s Channel 2?

 

“Something like the Real World —- I’d,
call it Dorm Life — just to see a bunch
of people getting into ﬁghts.”

-Mina Oh ‘02

“The Strip Poker Show. . .
because there are some fine
people I’d like to see naked on

this campus!”
-Matt Socha ‘O1

1 Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

“W&L Roller Derhy! ‘Nuf said.”
-Rich Reynolds ‘03

“I’m looking forward to seeing the
Survivor show; frat guys, frat girls, in a
cabin for a wee 

Annual subsription rate: $30 -ChﬁstinaJu1jan ‘()1

 

 

PAGE 4

Cilia ilting-tum iﬂtri

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

I am the NRA

'ght of the Aisle
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

Last Monday, I joined the NRA.
N o, I don’t own any gun racks or be-
long to a militia. In fact, I don’t even
own a gun. But I do believe that the
right to own a ﬁrearm, guaranteed to
Americans by the Second Amend-
ment to the Constitution, among other
rights, is under assault. I also believe
that the NRA is the only organiza-
tion with a national audience commit-
ted to defending that right. And, its
president, Moses, has been to the
Planet of the Apes.

Whether merely misguided or se-
riously dedicated to undermining our
most basic rights, many on the left
seek to make it illegal for law-abiding
citizens to own any gun, let alone a
pistol or an assault riﬂe. No, they re-
ally don’t have any plan for prevent-
ing crirninals from procuring guns,
just lawful citizens.

Many would respond with the ar-
gument that the Second Amendment
only gives “militias” the right “to keep
and bear arms.” However, it is “the
right of the people” that “shall not be
infringed.”

Another argument against per-
sonal ownership of guns is that it
leads to too many accidental deaths
and too much juvenile violence. Now,
while these are both tragic realities
and I‘in no way intend to diminish
their cost to society, both problems
can be solved with strict enforcement
of current laws.

As an aside, my home has always
had a loaded gun in it and no one has
shot himself. Maybe we should de-

mand parental responsibility instead,

of depending on the government.
Nevertheless, the costs of making
gun ownership illegal are even
greater. Australia recently outlawed
the private ownership of handguns.
The lawful citizenry largely obeyed
the edict to turn in their weapons and,
as a result, the island has experienced
an explosion of burglaries, robberies,

and muggings. Violent
crime has increased
73% since the ban went
into effect. Knowing
that they will be unop-
posed, save by a kitchen
knife, criminals have be-
come so brazen as to
burgle homes in broad
daylight, with the resi-
dents at home! In Brit-
ain, another island
known for its draconian
gun laws, the populace
has come to expect,
much like one expects a
few flat tires or late
trains, that their homes
will be burglarized.

In the United States,
we have seen the oppo-
site result in states that
permit its citizens to
carry concealed weap-
ons. In these states, vio-
lent crime rates have
plummeted because

.41

 

criminals aren’t sure if
grandma is going to
shoot back or not. Criminals are cow-
ards. They prey on the easiest target
and are ﬁnicky about entering homes
which may have a gun.

Larger issues are also in play.
Upon seizing power in 1933, the Na-
zis immediately seized handguns
owned by the citizens they deemed
threats. In 1928, the democratically
elected center-right German govem—
ment, in order to curb gang vio-
lence, required that all handguns be
registered, so the Nazis’ job was
that much easier. In 1938, Hitler so-
lidified his power by outlawing pri-
vate gun ownership. We all know
what he was then free to do to un-
desirables.

When Castro came to power, his
goons seized all privately owned ﬁre-
arms to eliminate the power of dissi-
dents to resist his rule. Once again,
their task was easy because the
Batista government had required
handgun registration.

Stalin, Mao, Idi Amin, and Pol
Pot also all made genocide an easier
task by implementing harsh gun
control laws. These notorious des-
pots all heeded the Founding Fa-
thers’ advice that an armed popu-
lace is necessary to resist a tyran-
nous government.

So what, you say, gun ownership
won’t ever be illegal, guns just need
to be made safer with trigger locks
or identification systems in the
grips.

Rapists, muggers, burglars, and
thugs agree with you. They want
victims to struggle with a clumsy
trigger lock or an unreliable elec-
tronic gewgaw instead of defend-
ing themselves. The firearm is prob-
ably the most perfect mechanical
device produced by man. Compli-
cating it with unnecessary electron-
ics will only make them too unreli-
able or too difficult to use.

Additionally, the drive to make

V

RETIREMENT

   

ENSUBANEE

doesn't apply to taxes.

Social Security.

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"

That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes
can add up to significantly more money for you-
money you can use to supplement your pension and

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax-saving solutions—along with TIAA-CREF’s
low expenses and solid history of performance-—can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% maybe
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

MUTUAL FUNDS

Tax-deferred solutions
from TIAA-CREF can
help you reach your
retirement goals faster.

$102,068

TRUST SEBVIAEES

' TAX DEFEHHAL MAKES A DIFFERENCE

TUITION FINANETNG

Aﬁer-tax savings

reﬂect expenses.

Taxdeferred savings after taxes‘

$67,5 1 4

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield_
may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reﬂect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIA‘A-CREF account, or

   
   

 

buying a gun increasingly difficult
doesn’t affect hoodlums buying
pieces out of trunks. Rather, this is
pretty clearly a liberal ploy to force
legitimate dealers out of business
and make purchasing a weapon so
convoluted and expensive that no
one bothers. Either by force of law
or weight of regulation, the libs are
determined to prevent laweabiding
citizens from exercising their Con-
stitutional right to own firearms. I’m
fighting back.

Stop making excuses

   

Consider this
Ginger Phillips ’01

 
 

I was watching my daily dose of CNN
news the other day when yet another fas-
cinating story about the upcoming presi-
dential election aired. The piece focused
on that select group of indecisive voters
that could make or break the election for
either George W. Bush or Al Gore.

“I have four young children,” said
one undecided woman. “I don’t have
time to listen to the issues, or even to
vote for that matter,” she said.-

Dumbfounded that this woman
could  believe that the future of
her children could be so unconnected
to the results of the November election
and the next four years in American
politics, I turned to one of my friends
for some rational explanation.

‘‘I know how that woman feels,” she
said to my surprise. “People our age are
just too busy to keep up with the issues.
I have no idea where the candidates stand,
so I’m not going to vote at all.”

And that was that. I realized that
both the woman on television and my
friend were ﬁrmly committed to allow-
ing the opportunity to help decide this
nation’s future slide by on excuses.

I also realized that they are not alone.
Let’s ask ourselves why political can-
didates focus on winning the vote of
every legal voting age group except our
own. Why are Bush and Gore talking
about prescription drug plans to se-
niors across the country instead of cir-
cling the American college circuit to dis-
cuss issues that affect 18-25 year olds?

The answer is simple: we don’t vote.

The student community here at Wash-
ington and Lee University is not immune
to this voting apathy. This is the ﬁrst presi-
dential election in which ﬂie majority of
W&L students are eligible to participate,
yet I have a feeling that most have thought
very little about their actual role in the
upcoming election. V

What may sound obvious is that the
voting process is not as simple as just
showing up at your local voting booth
and pressing a button on the big day.

First, you must register to vote in
the county which you claim as your
permanent residence. Since most W&L
students are not permanent residents
of Rockbridge County, they must also
request an absentee ballot from the
Registrar of Voters in their home county
and in most cases, return the ballot by
the day preceeding election day.

The voting process is by no means a
difﬁcult one, but will involve a little paper
work for most W&L students. All states
have different deadlines for both voter
registration and absentee ballot requests,
so procrastination is not really an option
if you are planning to vote.

A couple of easy ways to register
to vote are by picking up a registration
form from the University Registrar’s
Office or by visiting www.election.com
or a variety of other websites which
provide the proper forms.

We are adults now and the political
decisions of our nation, no matter how
remote they may seem from our W&L
bubble, will affect our future.

So don’t miss this chance to make a
difference. Stop making excuses. Vote.
And if you don’t, then I have two words
for you: don’t complain.

Bank One

Scholar Program

The Bank One Scholar Program combines on-the-job experiences at Bank
One with a graduate business education earned in the evening program at
either the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business or the Kellogg
Graduate School of Management at ltlorthwestern University.

Bank One Scholars are Chicago-based, but many complete one or more
6-month rotations at Bank One locations nationally or internationally.

- Comrnercial Banking - Private Clientservices - Sales& Trading

aAivrr_EoivL-'.

- InvestrnentBanking , - Strategy8z Planning - Corporate Finance

A 1 - 8 0 0 - 8 4 2 - 2 7 7 6 - Retail Banking ' - Credit Card Banking - Internet Banking ’ A

www.tiaa-cref.org . .  
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully     S   >   O    I ‘
Tonight >, University Center Room 114 > 7:00 P.M.

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

before you invest. 0 TIAACREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TlAA Real Estate variable annuities. - Teachers
Personal Investors Services, Inc. drstnbutes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. 0
llAA and TlAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities, t llAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.
- investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. © 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03

 

I

 

OCTOBER 2, 2000

IFE

  g  2 lting-tum i|Hhi'

PAGE 5

W&L Big Buddy

Program returns

By ShelleylMeyer
STAFF WRITER

This Bud, from the Big Buddy
Program, is for you.

The Big Buddy program is part
of a branch of the Nabors Service
League that targets elementary chil-
dren at Waddell and Central elemen-
tary schools.

According to sophomore Besty
Ely, there are approximately 30 Big
Buddies returning from last year. Ely
is not only a Big Buddy, but also
the children and youth contact for
the Nabors Service League.

“It’s the most important experi-
ence I have had here,” Ely said. “It
really puts things into perspective.
You spend two hours a week with a
kid who really needs you.”

Big Buddies are required to com-
mit to spend at least two hours a
week with their little buddy. Bud-
dies can mentor the kids, talk, or
just play around.

Ely said that she and her little
buddy “just run around play-
grounds.”

The Big Buddy Program is cur-
rently not very structured, said Ely,
but is being revamped. University
Activities Coordinator Teresa

Glassman is helping the service
league reorganize the program, in-
cluding forming a student advi-
sory committee. This advisory
committee will run the information
session on Tuesday.

“The complaint has been that
students get so excited, because
it’s a great opportunity, but then
they don’t follow up with their little
buddy,” said Glassman. “So the
student advisory committee is
going to do follow—up phone calls
and try to get together as a group
and process what has happened
with the little buddies.”

There are also hopes that the
student advisory committee will
also help maintain the program in
the future.

“We’re trying to make it a pro-
gram that perpetuates itself and
lasts from year to year,” said Ely.

This program is unique to
Washington & Lee, it is not affili-
ated with the national Big Botherl
Big Sister organization.

“It is not the exact program the
Big Brothers/Big Sisters is be-
cause it’s not nationally based,”
said Glassman. “But it very much
mirrors what that program is like.”

Ely said that they hope to have

i

p oto courtesy of Gabby LaRocca

MY BUDDY: Sisters and Little Buddies Kristen Robinson
and Amber Wright show off the goldﬁsh they won at the
Children’s Carnival last spring term, sponsored by the
children and youth branch of the Nabor’s Service League.

about 30 more Big Buddies this
year, but that quality is more im-
portant than quantity.

“We want committed people,”
said Ely.

Glassman hopes that the appli-
cation process to the Big Buddy
Program will help determine which
students will be the most commit-
ted and explain to students what
is expected of/them.

“The school counselors from
Central and Waddell [Elementary

New art adorns C-school walls

Latest exhibit ’
features local
artist and college
professor p

By Monica Schoenthalerl

STAFF WRITER

The unveiling of the new series
of paintings to adorn the walls of
the Williams Commerce School met
with appreciation on Friday after-
noon.

Attendees of the lecture entitled
“The process of creating a paint-
ing” given by Barbara Crawford, the
artist and a professor at Southern
Virginia College in Buena Vista,
mingled in the entryway of the C-
School during the reception to ap-
preciate and discuss the works. The
series of paintings, which con-
sisted of mainly monochromatic
prints and somewhat abstract oil
paintings of houses, seemed well
received by faculty and students
here at Washington and Lee.

Professor Larry Stene of W&L’s
Art department attended the recep-
tion to critique and admire Crawford’s

work

“I like the overall freshness of the
work, the immediacy,” said Stene.
“Her oils are very luminous. Most
artists use canvas, but she uses
masonite and plexiglass, which ac-
centuates the paint’s skin.
Crawford’s use of glazing technique
produces intense coloration, which

leads to a nice contrasting bal-
ance.”

W&L faculty and students
were not the only people gathered
to view Crawford’s artwork. Many
Lexington, Buena Vista, and
nearby area residents also gath-
ered to offer support and appre-
ciation. Tom and Betty Goad of
Lexington have been following
Crawford’s work since they moved
to Lexington in 1993. I

“I like [Crawford’s] work very
much. I would buy a painting if I
had any room left on my walls,”
said Betty Goad.

Several of Crawford’s Southern
Virginia College students also at-
tended the reception. Freshman
Andrew Anderson of Buena Vista
is currently enrolled in Crawford’s

28th.

     

art history course. He decided to
take the course, which covers art
from the prehistoric era to the me-
dieval period, after hearing reports
from previous students of
Crawford being “passionate”
about art and an overall excellent
professor.

Crawford’s passion for art
shows in her work, according to
those present for the exhibit’s

opening. Senior Mirella Dragieva, D

a C-School major, described the
paintings as “different. Last year,
we had lots of plain lines, triangles
. very abstract. These paintings
[by Crawford] are abstract as well,
but they seem more personal.”
Crawford’s art will be on dis-
play in the C-School until October

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

Fran Peppers and artist Barbara Crawford proudly
unveil the C-Scho0l’s latest art exhibit.

Schools] will be here to answer any
questions and let people know
that, once getting their application
filled out, they’ll go through an in-
terview process and be matched
with a little buddy,” explained
Glassman. “They’re going to try to
pair up as many people as pos-
sible.”

The Big Buddy program will
have its fall organizational meeting
Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Center game room. '

    

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Though this column prides it-
self on reviewing nontraditional ales
and lagers, beers not really seen
much in the fraternity base_ments_ of
Lexington, I occasionally like to in-
voke my editorial privilege to digress
and review a beer more familiar to
the Palms and Traveller’s hopping,
steamy frat basement crew. Hence
this week’s choice of Yuengling’s
Original Amber Lager.

At $4.50 a six-pack Yuengling is
fairly light on the wallet, andis a slightly
classier altemative to the others in the
medium to low price beers.

The beer itselfis of a medium am-
ber color, and has a mild hop taste.
The standard—bearer of the company,
the lager ﬂows smoothly from bottle
to gullet, and has a pleasant aftertaste
that isn’t too overbearing.

All in all, I give Yuengling a 8
out of 10 on the 1998 Beer Fest
Scale. A fun beer to have with a
barbeque or with a Northern tailgate

before the big game, Original Am-

ber Lager is a relaxed alternative to

.your usual selections. For more in-

formation check out the Yuengling
website at www.yuengling.com.

Next week’s beer will be Abita’s
Purple Haze, hailing from Abita
Springs, Louisiana. Till then, tip your
cups and drink one for me.

1 By Ashley Klimp
STAFF WRITER

Fun Foods & Accessories,
Painted Lady, and now Caroline’s
Sweets is the most recent in the
series of additions to Lexington’s
business environment.

-The owner, Caroline Dix,
opened the French-style bak-
ery on September 15.

“We’ve been very busy,”
said Dix. “It’s been great.”

Before it was Caroline’s
Sweets, 8 North Main Street was
Country Kitchen, owned by
Paul Campbell. Dix originally
approached Campbell about a
job. Campbell was looking, to
retire and saw an opportunity if

V Dix was interested in buying the
store. Dix agreed and the ‘store
changed hands in August.

Virginia is familiar tenitory to
Dix, who lived in Charlottesville
and ran the Foods ofAll Nations
bakery for the past two years. Dix
was happy to move to Lexington
since she livedin the Rockbridge
areafrom 1991 to 1998.

Though she has always en-

Pastries of 

‘ ‘nurse for five years heforeshe ’

, sortment of bakedgoods.

SWEET room: One of Caroline’s Sweets employees, 1 '
Janice Memmolo, mans the pastry counter. , *

joyed baking, Dix worlcieidias“ a" 

decided that she. would rather
take a chance doinglsomethinge; »
she loved for a ‘living. She  T
her nursing job and from 1982 to 
1983 she studied baking at  ,
Pot au Fen in France‘. [ 1: 7  . :
“I worked two jobs ‘and,had“’ 
two huge garage sales to aecorn- .
plish this,”Dix  S  f
While attending the  I
Dix found that she already knew i .
a great deal of What was being ,1 if
taught. . I ' Z , .  
“I learned that I knew a Iot‘,”“3
Dix’ said. “It did a great for 2 A
my self condidence.”  ‘ ,
Caroline’s Sweets sells. t1'adi’~-7 I
tional cafe drinks such as coffee: ’
and tea in addition to aiwidefas-B

  

Dix describes the bakeryfs A,
selection as “anything from mnf-I ’
fins to wedding cakes.” I A I .

Dixspassionforbakingshows‘ f
in the quality of her brownies and} i ’
breakfast foods, which have bee
the most popular items -on 
menu, as well asthe rnanypoth P
extravagant pastries available.

  
   
  
  
   
  
   

   

photo by emsiy ‘Blames/E 

P Y
DECISIONS, DECISIONS: Crittenden selects a Yuen

     

es xecutive Editor

gling

traditional lager from six offerings by America’s oldest

brewery.

Lexington Coffee won some big national award as one of the
best quality coffee houses in the whole country,

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

(— . 9’.
.ﬁIl(lA'/lI[y (>001/v(u(Iy

 

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - BAGELS ° PASTRIES
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ' LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

 

PAGE 6

‘II

@1112 Bing-tum iﬂht

SPORTS

 

OCTOBER 2, 2000

W&L sets record with win streak

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The men’s soccer team contin-
ued their unbeaten streak with a
pair of victories this week,Idefeat-
ing both Hampden-Sydney and
Lynchburg by wide margins. The
Generals also broke the record for
consecutive wins on Saturday
with their seventh straight victory.

The Generals beat Hampden-
Sydney 4-0 on Thursday. Senior
Andy Crawford scored three min-
utes into the" game, and found the
net again at 24:38 with the help of
junior Rick Schnatz.

“[My teammates] put me in a
position to score,” Crawford said.
“All I had to do was put the ball in
back of net.”

Schnatz scored with ten min-
utes left in the game, and two min-
utes later, freshman Philip Miller
assisted sophomore Sean Hardin
for the final goal.

Sophomore goaltender Tim Foley
saved all four shots he faced, giving
the Generals the shutout Foley said
the game was much closer than the
score suggested, however.

“They had their chances, but
we stayed solid in the back and
our forwards [scored on] their

chances,” Foley said.

Saturday’s game against the
Lynchburg Hornets opened with both
teams getting good opportunities, to
the dismay of the Generals.

Coach Rolf Piranian described his
team’s early play as “sluggish,” but
added that the Generals started to
dominate after some key substitutions.

W&L struck first 15 minutes
into the match, when junior Paul
Wallace passed to sophomore Brad
Murphy, who broke free to score
the first goal.

Later in the half, freshman Bret
Grote broke free down the sideline
and passed to sophomore Garreth
Winstead, who put the ball past
Hornet goalkeeper Levi Solmose
after a convincing fake for his first
collegiate goal.

One minute into the second half,
junior Andrew Grimes was stopped
by Solmose, but Crawford was there
for the rebound, netting the goal and
pushing the lead to 3-0.

As if , the Generals’ unbeaten
streak wasn’t enough, a female fan
streaked across the field during a
stoppage of play. Soon afterwards,
that omen of good fortune paid off
when freshman Philip Miller scored
off a Crawford assist five minutes
into the second half.

 

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

SURE SHOT. Brad Murphy shoots against Lynchburg goalie
Levi Solmose in the Generals’ 5-1 win Saturday.

Lynchburg sophomore Tim
Longnecker put the Hornets on the
board with little over 26 minutes left
in the game. Once again, the Gener-
als irninediately responded, as
Winstead notched his second goal
of the game less than 30 seconds
later to put the Generals up 5-1.

The Generals take the road
Wednesday to face the only other
undefeated team in the ODAC,

Men’s tennis hosts Fall

By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

The armual W&L Fall Classic
men’s tennis tournament was held
last weekend, Sept. 23-24. Players
from Washington and Lee, Virginia
Military Institute, Johns Hopkins,
and the College of New Jersey vied
for titles in men’s singles and
doubles matches, with the Gener-
als taking titles in two of four
singles ﬂights and in both of the
doubles ﬂights.

Junior Rob Moynihan and
freshman K.C. Schaefer each won
championships in the singles
ﬂights for W&L. Moynihan took
the title in the third ﬂight with a 7-
5, 6-1 win over Dan Kreeger of
Johns Hopkins, and Schaefer won
the fourth ﬂight by knocking off
teammate Chris Sorenson 4-6, 6-3,
6-2 in the championship match.

Freshman Austin Kim of W&L
was defeated by Jay Berger of the
College of New Jersey by a 6-2, 6-7

 

(5), 6-1 score in the championship
of the number two singles ﬂight.
Taking the titles in the doubles

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
DOUBLE THE FUN. Rob Moynihan and Chase Bice compete
in the W&L Fall Classic, held Sept. 23-24. The duo lost
the championship match of the number two doubles ﬂight
to fellow Generals K.C. Schaefer and Zach Vuncannon.

matches were juniors Rhys James
and Albert Roberts in the number
one doubles ﬂight and Schaefer

Roanoke College, for conference
supremacy.

The Generals’ other sophomore
goaltender, Brad Heam, was selected
as the ODAC player of the week for
the week of Sept. 25. Heam recorded
shutouts against Randolph-Macon
and Ferrum, but could not play the
last two games because of a concus-
sion he suffered Sept. 23 against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan.

Classic

and junior Zach Vuncannon in the
number two doubles ﬂight.

James and Roberts defeated the
College of New Jersey’s Berger and
Rob Howland 8-6, while Schaefer
and Vuncannon topped teammates
Moynihan and sophomore Chase
Bice 8-2 in the finals.

The Generals play in touma—
ments in the fall as preparation for
a competitive spring season.
Moynihan, a junior, commented on
the auspicious outlook for the up-
coming season.

“We won the conference last
year and we have the entire team
back this year,” Moynihan said.
“Three out of our top four players
this year are new. Our players from
last year are getting bumped down,
which shows how good we’re go-
ing to be this year.”

The Generals will be competing
along with 15 other teams in the
South Regional Tournament, which
will be hosted by Washington and
Lee this Saturday and Sunday.

a
t."

   

.TeW.§.-

- ....'.-a

109 SOUTH JEFFERSON STREET LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TEL: 540-463-3116 FAX: 540-463-3171

www.n-gprintshop.com

Xerox copy PRICES

81/2 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond
$0.10 per copy

1-500

501-1000 $0.09 per copy
1001-2000 $0.08 per copy
Over 2001 $0.01 per copy

11 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond

1-500 $0.20 per copy
501-1000 $0.18 per copy
1001-2000 $0.16 per copy
Over 2001 $0.14 per copy

BINDERY WORK

  Two sided copies go at two times (2x) the rate.
Paper ‘other than white 20 lb. goes at copy price + paper cost.

Minimum $5.00 or $110.00 per hour

   

Women’ssoccer wins  
last two-on road trip

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team rounded
out a streak of ﬁve straight road

» games by winning two of their

last three to finish 3-2 on the away
swing. .

A Lynchburg scored three early
goals en route to a 5-0 victory

Sept. 24. Senior Kristen Kowit‘

recorded a hat trick against the
Generals, and teammates Nicole
Wisneiewski and Erin Streper
scored a goal apiece. The Hor-
nets dominated the game,
outshooting the Generals 32-1.
Senior goalkeeper Laurenﬂarris
kept the Generals competitive,
making 13 saves. 6

Harris made three saves to
earn her third shutout of the sea-
son on Wednesday, as W&L
routed Sweet Briar 9-0. Junior
Drew Powers, sophomore Jenny
Thomas, freshman Fontaine

. Marcoux, and freshman
Susannah Hewlett all scored two
goals each, and freshman
Heather Coleman also found the
net. Marcoux had two assists;
Thomas and Meghan Hayde
each tallied a single assist.

A Saturday’s 2-1 win over Virginia
Wesleyan was a bit more challeng-
ing for the Generals. Wesleyan’s
Melanie Braswell scored the only
ﬁ1sthalfgoalat4l:l4.

W&L ﬁnally struck back with
18 minutes left in the game, as
sophomore Lindsey Duran tied
the game with an unassisted
goal. Four minutes later, Marcoux '
notched the go-ahead goal. Har-
ris ensured the win by making
nine saves, and Virginia

A Wesleyan goaltender Janine
Swanson recorded four saves.

The Generals (5-4, 4-3 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) will
return to home play on Tuesday
with a match against ODAC foe
Emory & Hemy.

This week ’s schedule
Football

   

Saturday Oct. 7 at Catholic 1:00 p.m.
Golf '

Mon.-Tues.Oct. 2-3 at Aubrey Apple Invite TBA
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country

Saturday Oct. 7 at Dickinson Invitational 10:30 a.m.
Men’s Soccer

Tuesday Oct. 4 at Roanoke 4:00 p.m.

Saturday Oct. 7 Guilford 1 :00 p.m.
Women ’s Soccer

Tuesday Oct. 3 Emory & Henry 4:00 p.m.

Saturday Oct. 7 Guilford 3 :30 p.m.
Volleyball 1

Tuesday Oct. 3 at Randolph-Macon 6:30 p.m.

Saturday Oct. 7 at Randolph-Macon WC 1:00 p.m.
Men’s Tennis

Sat.-Mon. Oct. 7-9 ITA Southeast Regional TBA

in General athletics...

CORRECTION

In the Sept. 18 issue, Fontaine
Marcoux was incorrectly cred-
ited with an overtime goal in the
women’s soccer team’s 2-1 win
over Randolph-Macon. Lindsey
Duran scored the game-winning
goal. The Ring-tum Phi apolo-
gizes for the mistake.

EnrroR’s NOTE:
Women’s tennis
results from the ITA
Southeast Regional
will appear in the

Oct. 9 issue.

HULL’S

IJIRIVE-II\I

FRIDAY 0 SATURDAY 0 SUNDAY

4 Miles, Route 11 North Lexington
463-2621
Admission $4/adult
Gate Opens 7pm '
Movies at Dusk

 

LOSER   PG 13

Romantic Comedy

I—-—-I DOUBLE FEATURE -I-I-I

SAVING GRACE R
1 Comedy

www.huIIsdrivein.com

VVI

      

’The Real

    

FOR TWO TO

AFRICA

This year the cost of MTV’s

Now you can too! _
ﬁﬁ
‘test?

Enter for 0 chance to win of your
local Council Travel office or at
counciltroveI.com

This trip to Africa is provided by

g
a
Z w
worvdwkiovncntlonn
for‘I8 loasyxroids

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..
between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go
to counciltravelcom. Sweeps kes ends 10/15/O0.

-.__

counci|travel.com
1 -800—2COUNC|L

N A TRIP

\/Vorld’ went to Africa.

‘$0

WE
vlrgln
atlantlc

6&1 The Cutting Edge

‘ﬁair Salon

highlighting, manicuring, pedicuring, waxing
walk-ins welcome

117 W. Relson Street
Lexington. VP! 24-450

540-463-9588

   

Q

 

_. .....ov,-—....._ ,

 

OCTOBER 2, 2000

,Sf“d‘”1’“1Ts  

PAGE 7

Generals sting Yellow Jackets

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Another game, another slew of
broken records.

With a 34-6 victory over
Randolph-Macon Saturday after-
noon at Wilson Field, Washington
and Lee moved to 4-0 for the first
time since 1961, when Lee
McLaughlin’s Generals ﬁnished 9-
0 and won the Washington Touch-
down Club Award as the nation’s
best small college team.

The Generals (4-0, 2-0 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) also
snapped a ten-game skid against
the Yellow Jackets (2-3, 1-1). Se-
nior tailback Marc Watson set a
W&L record with 319 all-purpose
yards, including 153 yards and two
touchdowns on the ground.

“Our offensive line has a lot of
experience,” Watson said. “That
was the strength of the team last
year, and it’s the strength of the
team this year. When you’ve got
guys like that, it makes your job
look real easy.”

W&L’s defense intercepted Yel-
low Jacket quarterback Hunter
Price four times and also forced him
to fumble. The Generals now have
a plus-13 turnover margin for the
season, having given the ball away
just twice in four games.

Price ﬁnished 29-of-53 for 282
yards, but was never able to ﬁnd
the end zone. Randolph-Macon

head coach Scott Boone credited the
Generals’ defense with effectively
thwarting his team’s aerial attack.

“They put good pressure on
him all day,” Boone said of Price.
“He just made some ill-advised
throws, and we didn’t catch the
ball as well as we do sometimes. It
was just a combination of things.”

W&L head coach Frank Miriello,
who employed a different coaching
strategy for his defense, was pleased
with the way the unit played.

. “(Seniors) Jayson Lipsey and
Will Baker called the whole defense
on the ﬁeld based on the offen-
sive sets, and it worked,” Miriello
said. “We had a great mix of pres-
sure and zone, and our defensive
line did a great job of not rushing
up the ﬁeld on the screens and the
draws, which was in our plan. The
secondary was terriﬁc.”

Senior Andy Vendig followed
up a blocked punt by Watson with
a 24-yard field goal to give the
Generals a 3-0 lead with 4:59 to play
in the first quarter.

With ten minutes remaining be-
fore halftime, Watson found the
end zone from a yard out for a 10-0
lead. Yellow Jacket Clint Sullivan
would cut the lead to 10-6 four min-
utes later on a two-yard run.

However, W&L took control of
the game before the break, as
sophomore Chris Sullivan scored
on a 59-yard touchdown pass from
classmate Bobby Littlehale two

plays after the Randolph-Macon
touchdown. Vendig drilled a 27-
yarder with a second left in the
quarter to give the Generals a 20-6
halftime lead.

The Yellow Jackets overcame a
28-6 second quarter deﬁcit against
ODAC preseason favorite Catho-
lie on Sept. 23 to pull out a 31-28
win. With that in mind, Miriello
knew his team wasn’tf1nished with
its work after two quarters.

“We came in at halftime, made a
few adjustments I—- not many, be-
cause everything was working —
and we came out determined that
we were going to take them down,”
Miriello said. “I told them to get bet-
ter every rninute of the game, and
by the fourth quarter you’ll be play-
ing the best that you can play.”

The Yellow Jackets’ offense
was unable to provide a repeat
performance, and the Generals’ of-
fensive backﬁeld sealed the victory
with two second half scores.
Watson ran 50 yards for a touch-
down midway through the third
quarter, and Sullivan caught a 31-
yard pass from Littlehale in the
fourth to extend the lead to 34-6.

“There was a combination of
things that didn’t really go well for
us,” Boone said. “Their defense
played very well, and got after us,
and we just didn’t answer their
pressure.”

The Generals face Catholic next
week on the road, making the win

INSIDE THE HUDDLE. W&L water polo coach Todd Peters talks to his team during
a stoppage of play in Atlantic Division Tournament action on Saturday.

photo by Lisa Lin/Photo Editor

over Randolph-Macon even more
important for Miriello’s team.
“The confidence level keeps
building, and if kids play with con-
fidence, that’s a big part of it,”
Miriello said. “Catholic’s a great
team —— a playoff team year in, year

out. It’s going to be a big chal-
lenge, but we’re going to give them
all they can handle, and hopefully
we’ll come out with a win.”

Watson knows that he and his
teammates have no leeway to sit
back and relax at this point.

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer
CALLING HIS OWN NUMBER. Sophomore quarterback Bobby Littlehale scrambles against
Randolph-Macon. Littlehale finished 14-of-21 for 171 yards and two touchdown passes.

“Catholic’s got a great team,
period,” Watson said. “Any given
day, you can have a bad game, and
last week was probably theirs. So
we’ll have to strap it on, and play
better than we played today if
we’re going to win.”

ODAC Football Update

Standings ODAC

Team W L
Washington & Lee 2 O
Emory & Henry 1 0
Bxidgewater * 1 1
Randolph-Macon 1 1
Catholic 0 1
Guilford 0 2

§
2-‘;

o-nab/co<.o.r:.g
.t>-caterin---or“

September 30 Results

Washington & Lee 34, Randolph-Macon 6
Bridgewater 30, Hampden-Sydney 12
Lasalte 35, Catholic 10

Emory & Henry 54, Averett 7

 = .. “: ;.».  ._.;;i.L.,«L -
Washington 8; Lee at Catholic ’ 1
Emory & Henry at Hampden-Sydney
Guilford at Randolph-Macon

Maryville at Bridgewater

 

18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

PROBLEM WITH THE LOCALS ?

'WE’RE FROM ATLANTA.
AT THIS TIME WE ARE STILL ABLE TO ABSORB THE HIGH
COST OF ENTERTAINMENT- SO WE NEVER CHARGE
1 STUDENTSA COVER CHARGE!

DON’T MISS OUR MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
PARTY WITH .25 CENT HOT WINGS ~ 2 FOR 1

W&L sports roundup

 AND SPECIALS WE CAN’T ADVERTISE

B Jere F ankr Averett.8-15, 3-15, 16-14, 8-15, W&L rebounded to HERE !
 Y  “‘  S .
L W harnrners Guilfor d Freshman Kristin Shelton notchedaW&L—high 16 _     N ' 
kill ‘ , 1111 s lb talli d24 ' . - »
take, ,0 the mad for ’ ....::‘.g.:::‘.:::.‘.:.:::.*:.:;...:..:‘.::...‘:.::......:...w*‘;:::S. KITCHEN I5 MAKING some or mt BEST
kill ‘ Mill ,ttalin 23 dal ddin eiht
Elnory Tournament 4 blo:l:§aRIi1sctken ::l:lSH:ys ﬁr“Iishe::lnwitlS1o12’15 eaih,  IN  " I   T‘/,5   

The Washington and Lee volleyball team had a
four—match win streak snapped, losing three straight
before winning their final match of the Emory Touma-
ment over the weekend.

Before traveling to Atlanta, the Generals (8-5)
knocked off Guilford College at home Tuesday by a
15-10, 15-2, 15-9 score. Sophomore Stacey Kimmel led
W&L with ten digs, junior Leslie Fischbeck tallied
seven kills, and senior Katherine Kline contributed
1 1 assists as the Generals pushed their Old Dominion
Athletic Conference record to 3-1.

In Friday’s competition, W&L fell to Greensboro
College 9-15, 16-14, 11-15, 15-17, andto hostEmory 5-
15, 11-15, 6-15. Fischbeck and classmate Lindsay
Ruckert combined for 35 kills against Greensboro, and
Kimmel and senior Tori Hays contributed 13 digs
apiece. Senior Pam Saulsbury, who led the Generals
with 20 assists against Greensboro, recorded tearn-
highs of ten assists and seven digs against Emory.

After dropping Saturday mor11ing’s match against

and Saulsbury racked up 32 assists in the win.
The Generals return to ODAC competition Tues-
day on the road against Randolph-Macon.

Cross country teams place

second at Roanoke

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
cross country teams both placed second out of seven
teams in Saturday’s Roanoke Invitational, ﬁnishing
behind the host school in each meet.

Sophomore Burke Duncan placed second overall in
the women’s meet with a time of 19:36, followed shortly
by senior Jessica Parrillo, who finished third at 20:04.
Junior Gretchen Tencza placed 13th overall at 21 :35.

Freshman Andy Schorr led the Generals in the men’s
meet with a time of 27:58, good enough for ﬁfth over-
all. Sophomore David Hicks ﬁnished ninth at 28 :47.

Both teams will return to action next Saturday in
the Dickinson Invitational.

6 DIFFERENT NFL FOOTBALL GAMES
GOING AT THE SAME TIME - IF YOU’RE
NOT HERE , WHERE ARE YOU .7

WE BUILT THIS PLACE WITH Xﬂt IN MIND. IF
YOU HAVEN’T FOUND US YET YOU NEED TO GET
OUT MORE. THE T. V.’S, POOL TABLES, VIDEO
GAMES, FOOSBALL TABLES, DART MACHINES,
DANCE FLOOR, AND LIBATIONS ARE HERE TO TAKE
YOUR MIND OFF THE DAY. HAVING FUN IS OK!

 

 

Because People
Just Aren ’t Funny

PAGE 8

LASTW

@112 iliing-tum ilﬂhi

ORD

OCTOBER 2, 2000

Sinx College

‘ﬂzecausenaw any5oJy cazrye/zlvz/o caﬂeye ./ 7[an£s,  we/tbn ./ ’

“From the makers of Sim Militia and Sim Insurance Firm”

Brand: Blamo
Platform: IMA C/G3

Rating: N (Nobody)
Available: In stores somewhere

Contains: Academic Lethargy, Mature Sexual Themes,
Adult Language, and Use of Illegal Stuff

* Now available for the pittance of $5,000 and a high
school diploma (Prices may vary), comes an exciting
new game from the developers who wish they had
brought you Sim Sh*ty 2000 and The Dims.

FEATURES

Control. . .

*Sim College is a real-time strategy that accurately
simulates the crazy and occasionally awkward college
student experience. Play the role of the bookworm nerd
and become a library legend or build up your alcohol
tolerance in the role of the party-hearty frat boy. Become
a swinger, go steady, or turn into a lonely, shut-in that writes
horrible, horrible poetry. Your Sim College student can live
out your wildest fantasies (ones you could never do yourself)
such as escort a goat as a Fancy Dress date or start a
clothing optional commune in your dorm.

Live. . .

*You may choose from a library of prefabricated nerds, jocks,
party-animals, drama queens, spoiled brats, and stoners with
unique personalities, abilities, and appearances.

*Attend 12 universities as diverse as Princeton, University
of Wisconsin, Bringham Young, UNLV, Texas A&M, Ole
Miss, Amherst, and Hillberry Community College.

*Let your College Sim pursue any of 40 possible major
paths including the extra-difficult Pre-Law and Pre-Med
programs complete with LSAT and MCAT. Guide your
College Sim well and he or she may become a doctor,
economist, CEO, actor, criminal mastermind, international
spy, or the President of the People’s Republic of Texas.
*Sim College lasts up to ﬁve years or until the Dean kicks you
out, including srunmer internships and studying abroad in such
remote and exotic locales as Mexico, Rwanda, and Haiti.
*Get drunk, have discussions, do homework, waste time,
compliment or insult your roommate, ﬁght or flirt with the
guy next door, fall in love, get laid, make friends, and the
list goes on. No other game has ever offered this kind of
variety or in-depth range of experiences.

   
   

   

 

   

I if Laxxuareré. smog.  

      ¢séa}4es¢21a9- 
 tarsexasxzme IN,:IF1£iGH VSkC:.l’§Q0L:[  
    nausea. mores.     

        
‘  —   I     

‘Study’ to become the
President’s second wife. . .
or to become an intern.

 

Train to work in the A
exciting ﬁeld of
janitorial
engineering.

 

Study and Participate. . . V

*Whether you are interested in Math, English, 17th
Century illiterate Banglanese poets, German, or just “a
broad” or seven, Sim College has it all.

*Sim College has over ﬁfteen different fraternities and six
different sororities to participate, with complete Rush
Programs including an optional hazing setting with such
classics as “Gookie Cookie,” “Barbara Streisand
Marathon,” and the vaunted “Rocket to Uranus.”

Decorate. . .

*Create the ultimate dorm room complete with televisions,
posters, bean bags, lofts, stereos, dirty clothing, old pizza
boxes, and passed out roommates.

Graduate. . .

*After 4-5 short years, you’ll reach your big day to enter
the real world and realize just how easy you really had it.
Graduation comes complete with proud parents, gifts from
relatives, huge block parties, job applications, and diplomas.
Get your limited edition College Sims Scholarship Edition
now in stores and watch out for the Grad School Expansion
due out Fall 2004. I

You know, sometimes you feel like a nut and
sometimes you feel like wreaking havoc upon
humanity of the likes of which have never been
seen before. Being the peace loving fellow I am,
however; I recommend a nice chewy Pay Day —
it really hits the spot. . . it’s right up there with
chemical warfare.

 

em ss,»a.;.. St.

Roanoke School Bus Accident

( Continued from p.4 )

Gawkers were astounded by the
massive amount of guts and gore. Gawkers
were astounded by the massive amount of
gore} Gawkers were astounded by the
massive amount of gore. Gawkers were
astounded by the massive amount of gore.
Gawkers were astounded by the massive
amount of guts, handle bars, and gore.
Gawkers were astounded by the massive
amount of blood, guts, and gore. Gawkers
were astounded by the massive amount of
gore. Gawkers were amazed by the massive
amount of cod fish and gore. Gawkers
were astounded by the massive amount of
blood, guts, ice cream, and gore.

 

   

1.     

 

cor=r=Er—:peop|eMu

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

 

GHQ

srcmore

Ilelln. III]! name is at-urge. Tire-
nor:1-no-rlrirrgs-In-irritate
rorrr-t:'asIrn-InIesIinaI-fract-
tierbil.

 

I'm here with an imnortant message about IBS
tlrritallle Bowel Syndrome). Kills. don't do
things to irritate your gastrointestinal tract,
because it you rlo. you might get IBS. Instead.
net Illenty of rest and stick to a Iliull-tiller diet
lreeause IBS is no Iauuinu matter!

*Brought to you by the University Health Depot

considerations

*Thanks to EA.com for promotional

Interested in having the Unabomber endorse
your product? Call 462-4060 for details.

 

I

 

 

