,/Swath
9373.755
gas;
'1 \/~l0j

, ‘Speaker

   
  
   
  
  

  

Vl3Il7
c,.2_

VOLUME 103, No. 17

C112 ﬂing-tum IE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

stresses
success

By Matthew McDerrnott

NEWS EDITOR

A best-selling author kicked off the
“Dream a Dream, Read a Book” Literacy
Campaign with a keynote address at
the Martin Luther King Jr. Day Celebra-
tion.

Introduced by Minority Student
Association Vice President Lizina Green
as “one of the most popular speakers”
currently working the corporate track,
Dr. Dennis Kimbro has spoken before
employees of Xerox, Chrysler, Price
Waterhouse, Apple Computer and the
CIA.

“Out of the 50 million speakers
W&L had to choose from, you chose
me,” Kimbro said. “I am honored to be
here.” -

Kimbro chronicled his search for
answers to questions that interested
him from an early age.

“I wanted to find out two things,”
said Kimbro. “One, why does one suc-
ceed when another fails? And two, why
do some get rich while others stay
poor?”

Kimbro sought answers from accom-
plished black Americans, interviewing
so many that he stopped counting in-
terviews after the 150th.

Kimbro stressed the necessity of
lifelong learning in a country where,
“only three percent of Americans

have library cards and most don’t
use more than the sainc: I200
w:m:!«. "

CV.-aI‘:‘r :0 re.':  fu;w. to fail gra:;e-

_ f:dllKlIIll)1’O_Sa,lLl. Over his travels, he
noticed “the bigger‘ the home, the more
books it has. The smaller the home, the
bigger TV it has.”

Kimbro was preceded by two musi-
cal selections from the gospel group
Joyful Noise and by personal reﬂec—
tions from sophomore Toussaint
Crawford and freshman Monea
Hendericke.

The Martin Luther King Jr. Pro-
gram was sponsored by the Nabors
Service League, PRIDE, the Dean of
the College Laurent Boetsch, Will-
iarns School Dean Larry Peppers, Ca-
reer Services, the Athletic Depart-
ment, the Delt Center and the Minor-
ity Student Association.

Thirty students initiated
into Alpha Circle of
national honor society

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee honored its forefathers with
the celebration of the 130th Founders’ Day on Fri-
day. Held on former university president Robert E.
Lee’s birthday, President John Elrod initiated 39 W&L
students and honorary initiates into the Alpha Circle
of Omicron Delta Kappa,a national leadership and
honor society.

“Robert E. Lee always challenged his students to
do their duty,” Elrod said. “You can do that duty by
showing the leadership required of you in the history
of Washington and Lee.”

The ceremony invoked the memory of the Presby-
terian ministers who founded Liberty Hall Academy,
W&L’s earliest incarnation, in the 18th century, as well
as the other men and women, such as Lee and George
Washington, who signiﬁcantly impacted the univer-
sity.

According to Elrod, students at W&L founded the
Order of Omicron Delta Kappa in 1914 as a national
collegiate honorary fraternity to honor student leader-
ship. Today there are 139 circles of ODK at schools
throughout the country.

“ODK initiates have high academic standards
as well as character, honor, integrity, and involve-
ment in the community,” said Chris Edwards, who
works in the alumni office. “ODK celebrates all the
qualities that W&L embodies; therefore, initiation
is appropriate to be put on Robert E. Lee’s birth-
day.”

Prior to their initiation, Elrod spoke to the 15 senior,
ﬁve junior, ﬁve third year law and three second year
law students, in addition to the six honorary initiates.
He challenged them to honor the memory of Lee by
demonstrating leadership in solving the alcohol abuse
problem.

Induction into ODK is an honor, Professor of
History Ted DeLaney said. “I am grateful for the
recognition, and that ODK recognized my time and
commitment.”

Other activities in the celebration included a speech
by DeLaney on the first black student, John Chavis, to
attend W&L and a Founders’ Day dinner in Evans
Dining Hall. Chavis attended the school in 1795 as a
free black student.

“John Chavis was probably one of the most impor-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

BEARING IT. Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledges reveal their devotion to a fraternity brother playing basketball. ‘

~ University celebrates heritage with Founders’ Day

tant historical ﬁgures in the college,” DeLaney said.
“He was a student who was here when it was unusual
for him to receive formal education. It is a fact of his-
tory that is never focused on.”

DeLaney’s speech focused on the accomplishments
of Chavis before, during and after his time at Liberty
Hall Academy and Washington Academy. According
to DeLaney, he left Washington Academy to become
a prominent Presbyterian minister and schoolteacher
of both white and black students.

“It seems to me ideal that someone can take an
education and make something of it to create a better
place as John Chavis did,” DeLaney said.

According to Elrod, W&L celebrates
Founders’ Day to pay homage to those men and
women who have provided for the life of the uni-
versity.

Robert Mish, director of alumni programs, said
Friday’s ceremony means a lot to the school.

“Most schools celebrate the founding of their
institution,” Mish said. “Today is an appropriate
day [because it is Lee’s birthday] and he had so
much to do with making the school the way it is
today.” .

Mish said that in addition to the festivities held on
campus in honor of the university’s founders, several
alumni chapters throughout the country were holding
their own celebrations.

 

Iii”

MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2001

  

  
  

i:3i._?F=.N L IBR/RR‘!
A  UN."v'E.!!SiTY
", ‘M 17344.50

5 2001

 

,'k

]EhmMd2uﬂns(}reeks
to curb alcohol

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Continuing administrative ef-
forts to face the problem of alco-
hol abuse at Washington and
Lee, President John Elrod recently
issued a proposed alcohol initia-
tive that includes the banning of
drinking games and shots in fra-
ternity houses.

The “Fraternity Presidents’
Alcohol Initiative,” an 11-point
proposal presented last week at
a meeting between fraternity
presidents and President Elrod at
Lee House, includes a number of
potential rule changes aimed at
curbing perceived alcohol abuse
by students. According to Burr
Datz, Inteifraternity Council ad-
visor, the proposal represents
more than a new set of rules.

“Most of the points and ideas
in the proposal are already on the
books,” Datz said. “It represents
more of a re-focus . . . a step back
and evaluation of the current
rules.”

The alcohol initiative was cre-
ated through input received from
a number of sources, including
parents, trustees, faculty and
members of the administration.
lnforrnation and ideas from the
University’s Alcohol Task Force
were also given consideration, ac-
cording to Datz. The Alcohol
Task Force was created after the
death of two students in an alco-
hol-related accident earlier this
year.

While it does not ask for the
prohibition of alcohol consump-
tion by W&L students, the pro-
posal does demand a greater re-
sponsibility from fraternities in
helping solve alcohol problems
on campus.

“President Elrod wanted to
call attention to problem areas on
this campus,” said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison. “The goal
is to reduce the normative alco-
hol culture through strong lead-
ership. We want students to be

SEE ‘ALCOHOL’ oN PAGE 2

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

ARISE AND BE HONORED. Lauren LaFauci taps Carly

Blakelock with the ceremonial ODK wand.

(J11: ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

January 22, 2001

: Preseas

Five men’s lacro
named to All-Ame“

 
 
  
 

 
 
 
 
   

 

  
  

 

’PAGE2

s .

.p-.vv‘.-.-...........‘.._-..,--_-,

's ‘«.'o._u.'o.ju:«

(E112 itting-tum iﬂltt

  NEWS

more moderate . . . more responsible.”

Currently fraternities are not allowed to spend chap-
ter funds on alcohol or serve it to minors, and they must
follow IFC and national fraternity guidelines. The cur-
rent alcohol initiative reiterates these» points, placing
special emphasis on fraternities creating individual guide-
lines for the consumption and distribution of alcohol at
a party. The guidelines would have to follow University
policy, Virginia law and the risk management rules of a
fraternity’s national organization.

While these do not represent changes from current
University policy, some proposals may generate contro-
versy. The fourth point on the list, which demands that
fraternity guidelines “must include banning drinking
games and t 'ng shots,” and the ninth, which proposes
the regulation of off-campus parties by the IFC, have
both received heated responses.

“A lot of us think it may be taking things a bit too far
to go into a private residence,” said IFC member Hugh
Rabb, a senior.

While doubt was expressed by administrators as to
the plausibility of regulation of off-campus parties, most
seem more ﬁrm in the prohibiting of shots and drinking
games at fraternities.

“The main reason is that there are greater risks in-
volved [with shots and drinking games],” said Datz.
“When the sole purpose of drinking games is to get
trashed, that is a problem.”

FROM PAGE 1

Datz stressed that the proposal was not a final draft
and was not the law yet. Fraternity presidents are to
present the initiative to their respective fraternities
and later meet as a committee to discuss ideas,
changes or the amended proposals. They will then
present a progress report to President Elrod, the Al-
cohol Task Force and the Board of Trustees in early
February. It will be possible for more proposals to be
made later, or for the current proposals to be accepted
as written. Administrators also expressed interest in
continuing student input on the W&L alcohol situa-
tion.

To W&L students, the biggest problem with the pro-
posal may be its encroachment on student autonomy.
Historically independent from administrative control,
some students expressed displeasure at the appearance
of a mandate from President Elrod.

“I don’t think any changes will be taken seriously if
the administration is perceived not to be working with
the students,” said one sophomore who requested not
to be named. “For real changes to be made it has to
come from the students, not be told to us.”

While Datz said he agreed that students were the
solution to the problem, he also said they have to take
some responsibility for their actions.

“History shows that those who cannot control their
own destinies, have to have their destinies controlled
for them.”

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

Is rr BETTER THAN sEx? Students line up to sample assorted chocolates during the

“Psychology in Your Face” program at Northen Auditorium on Tuesday.

 

Love ‘n’ Liquor

The David Thompson Endowment Fund presents
“Love ‘r1’ Liquor” Thursday, Jan. 25 at 7:00 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. Linda Hancock, a nurse practicioner from Virginia
Commonwealth University, will give the presentation,
sponsored by SAMS (Student Athlete Mentors). She is a
national speaker on sexuality and alcohol issues. A slide
show that shows what might happen if college students
choose to mix sex and alcohol, along with numerous car-
toons and colorful advertising slides will highlight the
performance.

Lip Sync to beneﬁt local food

pantries

The 15th Annual LIP SYNC Contest, sponsored by
SARAH (Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger) will
be held on Friday, Jan. 26 beginning at 9 pm. Proceeds
from ticket sales will go to beneﬁt local area food pantries.
The contest will be held at the Student Activities Pavilion.
Tickets will be sold at the door.

Magician Belinda Sinclair to perform

Voted the “best female magician in the world,” Belinda
Sinclair performs slight-of-hand magic. She has appeared
at the Academy Awards, in a Celia Cruz video, on cable
shows, and on prime time television. An instructor as well
as a performer, she has taught Mikhail Baryshnikov,

JANUARY 22, 2001
, mail General Notes  Harrison Ford, Spike Lee, Al Pacino, Amy Irving, Michael
‘ALCOHOL 3- J. Fox, and Vice President Al Gore.

Panhellenic is sponsoring an event for children 3 to 12
years old and their parents, who can see Ms. Sinclair’s
Family Magic show at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, Jan. 27. The
hour—long performance will be held at the Rockbridge
County High School Auditorium. Contact the Montessori
Center for Children at 463-6461 for tickets and information.

The same day, at 8 p.m., Sinclair will put on a Parlour
Magic Show for adults, with the sponsorship of the IFC.
Washington and Lee University’s GHQ lounge is the venue
for this performance. Individual fraternities have tickets.

Irish Music Concert

The local Irish Culture club, Deoraithe na hE’ireann, will
be hosting a musical presentation by Joshua Harvey (‘00)
and his newly formed Celtic band. At the conclusion of the
business meeting on Tuesday, Jan. 30th, Harvey and his band
will perform “ Ana cuisle gheal mo chroi: A Suite for Irelan .”
Harvey and his band mate, Chris Edwards (‘99) composed
the piece, a suite in three parts. The suite addresses signiﬁ-
cant events in Irish history. The first piece is entitled
“Cromwell,” the second is “Famine W ” and the concluding
piece is entitled “The Voyage of St. Brendan.” The concert
portion of the evening is expected to begin around 7:30 p.m.
and the public is welcome to attend. There is no fee although
contributions to the band would be appreciated.

The concert will take place at the Jordan House located
on Preston Street in Lexington. Harvey will have an oppor-
tunity to discuss with the audience the inﬂuences that
went into composing the suite.

Refreshments will be served and time for socializing
will conclude the evening. This event beneﬁts those in the
community who have been interested in the cultural pur-
suits of the organization and would like to see first hand
the level of expertise available in the local area.

regulations.

in Graharn—Lees.

A MESSAGE FROM MIKE YOUNG

The Security Department has noticed a marked increase in parking violations, particularly in the evening hours.
Many students, faculty and staff members are parking in restricted areas, notably near Reid Hall circle, the Library
circle, duPont, Admissions, and in restricted areas near the residence halls.

With the addition last spring of the parking garage, there would seem to be no reason for this to be occurring.
There are plenty of spaces available in the parking garage after 6:00 PM, for the parking of vehicles by students
studying at night. We are asking you to please utilize this facility and not park in violation of the rules and

Most violations of the parking rules and regulations include a parking citation and the vehicle being towed away.
This unpleasant action can be avoided by complying with the rules. The security department would appreciate your
help in this matter. Copies of the University’s parking rules and regulations can be obtained at the Security Ofﬁce

   

  
 
 

The Ring-tum Phi
congratulates recent
student initiates of the
Alpha Circle
of Omicron Delta Kappa:

Justin Arnold

Katie Baldwin
Carly Blakelock
Liz Borges

Jocelyn Bowman
Hillary Bryant
Patrick Bryant
Amy Calce

Joshua Chamberlain
Sabrina Ciccarello
Elizabeth Holleman
Tyler J orgensen
Seon Kum.

Sam Langholz
Stazy McLoughlin
Kathleen Moroney
Stephanie Mullett
Robert Naftel
Michael Paulhus
Andrew Pittman
Erik Rosenwood
Crystal Simpson
Jennifer Strawbridge
Carter Thomas
Nathan Urquhart
Patrick Wright
Elizabeth Yusi

 

It

  

JANUARY 22, 2001

OPi”i\i1oN

PAGE 3

Is anyone maintaining King’s legacy?

Last week, our nation honored the memory of one of
her greatest leaders. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. led the Civil
Rights movement from its infancy until its ultimate triumph
with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the
Voting Rights Act of 1965. He dared to face the powerful
and entrenched interests against him and to demand that
America live up to the promises made by her Declaration of
Independence and guaranteed by her Constitution. It is
truly tragic that such a patriotic American and eloquent

advocate for
Right Side of the Aisle

equality was
struckdown at _
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

such an early

age. What is
even more tragic is that the black leaders of today have
betrayed his legacy and perverted his message.

Modem black leaders diﬁer from Dr. King in both their
political ability and their philosophy. Whereas Dr. King
was a consummate politician who carefully calculated the
risks of his actions, leaders such as the Reverends Jesse
Jackson and Al Sharpton have no sense of how to build
popular support for their positions. Whereas Dr. King
asked for no special rights and inspired long-oppressed
minorities to work harder and achieve more, Kwesi Mfume
of the NAACP and Congresswoman Maxine Waters only
whine about century-old wrongs and demand govemment
handouts and preferences. Dr. King was successful be-
cause he understood the political dynamics of America,
but more so because he was deeply dedicated to the Con-
stitutional principles on which our great Republic was
founded.

The civil rights movement spearheaded by Dr. King
carefully cultivated and eventually won the support of
the American public. For instance, Rosa Parks was the
third black person to challenge Birrriingharn’s segregated
buses, but the ﬁrst two were not supported by Dr. King
or his coalition because of their impure pasts. The first,
Claudette Colvin, was not championed because she, at
the age of only 15, became pregnant, soon after sitting in
the front of the bus. The second, Mary Louise Smith, was
ignored because her father was known to be a drunk. Dr.
King decided that neither a pregnant teenager nor the
daughter of an alcoholic would generate sympathy among
Americans, and instead elected to wait for the perfect
ﬁgurehead, Rosa Parks.

Neither Jackson nor Sharpton inherited any of the
King’s political acumen. Jackson recently went to Decatur,
D1,, to protest the suspension of four young black stu-
dents who had started a riot at a high school football
game. His protests and demonstrations generated no sup-
port and were ultimately rebuffed because the public did
not rise to the defense of thugs with criminal histories.

., Sharpton first came to national prominence by champi-

, oning the cause of Tawana Brawley, ayoung black woman

who claimed to have been kidnapped and raped by white
law oﬁicers in Wappingers Falls, NY. Ms. Brawley had a
checkered past -— she was certainly no Rosa Parks — and
has since rescinded her accusations and apologized for
fabricating such a heinous story, but Al won’t let up.

uote of the week:

(4

There’s not enough
alcohol in the world.

— Anonymous senior girl in response
to a freshman’s proposition

77

@112 Tiling-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
Matt McDermott
Max Smith

Mike Agnello
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Bryan Early
Heather McDonald
Michael Crittenden
Mary Guy

Ashley Daly

News Editors

Assistant News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor

Staff Photographer

Circulation Director
Business Manager

Charlie Tonelli
Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions_for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

/

Last spring, he appeared on 60 Minutes and stated
that he still believes that Brawley was raped. In addition,
he traveled to Cleveland last winter to take up the defense
of a black female student who had been expelled from
Euclid High School for performing fellatio on several of
her classmates in a school stairwell.

Also, just last Thursday, Jackson, the man who was so
pious and steadfast in his support for President Clinton
during the impeachment trial, admitted that he is the father
of an illegitimate child. Needless to say, instances such as
these as well as countless others have destroyed any cred-
ibility that these leaders may have had and have mutated
earnest efforts to achieve their goals into a farce.

Another area in which modern civil rights leaders do
no justice to the legacy of Dr. King is in their political
philosophy. Dr. King insisted on remaining strictly neu-
tral in the 1960 presidential election, even though he be-
lieved that Kennedy would have been better on civil rights.
Today, the “non—partisan” NAACP and Jackson’s Rain-
bow/PUSH coalition are little more than lapdogs for the
Democratic Party. In this election cycle, the NAACP stooped
to producing television ads that featured the daughter of
James Byrd Jr. virtually accusing President Bush of ap-

 

crimes legislation. One shudders to think how far civil rights
legislation would have gone if Dr. King had labeled the Re-
publican Congressmen who ensured its passage as racists
and supporters of hate crimes. Also, noting President Bush’s
unprecedented overtures to the black community, one can-
not help but deduce that, based on his record of neutrality,
Dr. King wouldn’t have spurned his efforts with race-baiting
and unrestrained vitriol, as did Jackson.

Finally, Dr. King campaigned for no more than what _

blacks were owed as American citizens. He simply asked
that the promises made to all Americans, of every color, be
kept. Today, the black leadership perverts this message by
demanding special rights for blacks and other minorities.
Whether it be affirmative action, racial quotas, or repara-
tions for slavery, modern civil rights leaders betray their very
label by not campaigning for civil rights, but rather for a
handout, an unfair advantage, or outright reverse racism.

It should not be surprising to any student of history that
the black leaders of today have made little or no headway
with their causes. They lack both the political skill and philo-
sophical honesty that marked Dr. King’s career. To lead their
crooked crusade in honor of his memory is slanderous.

Caesar of the American Empire

With the inauguration of a new president, the recent ~

electoral crisis is quickly being forgotten. Another presi-
dent with soothing patriotic and inclusive rhetoric solidi-
fies his power.
The most ra-
cially diverse
Cabinet in his-
tory is set to be
confirmed, but, being complete with corporate lobby-
ists and oil executives, it rests, as always, a bastion of
big business and foreign interventionists. And now,
at a moment of celebration and apoliticism, the restora-
tion to “normalcy” will complete itself. America will re-
gain its arrogance as the world’s leader in promoting and
symbolizing “democracy.”

What was so democratic about the recent elections?
Two very well known candidates

 

How exactly is America a great democracy? A nation
can have a “one man, one vote” process, but without a
high degree of economic equality, there is no equality of
inﬂuence! Campaign ﬁnance laws are only a stop- gap mea-
sure. A larger problem is that, at present, only two par-
ties are allowed to play the game. And while there may
be a fair amount of difference between a Democrat and
Republican activist, among those who have the ability
to win the presidential nomination ideological diver-
sity is very rare.

The Gores and Bushes are separated by only maybe
seven cents in the dollar. Only politicians who support the
general quasi—liberal status quo of the upper middle class
and very wealthy can attract the favorable media cover-
age and inﬂuential support necessary to convince the
people that they will govern for “all Americans.” This de-

mands adhesion to free trade, a

were denied a seat (even in the 
audience) at the debates and ‘
lacked press coverage. A presi-
dent won again with a minority,
but also actually got fewer votes

lead... ?
than his opponent due to an an-

What is this great power
that Mr. Bush is about to

forward-looking capitalism, ex-
ploitative usury, support for impe-
rialist “intervention” overseas (so
as not to be an isolationist), and
social liberalism.

cient elitist tool that checks
popular will. An unresolved bal-
lot process served to expose the weaknesses in
American constitutionalism, as the final result was
rendered not by a careful count of ballots (that was,
perhaps, impossible to do impartially) but by the
Republican—appointed Supreme Court’s idea that
truth must be subverted to its time limitations. It is
estimated that the entire election of 2000 was a $2
billion business!

“I celebrated Martin Luther
King’s Birthday.”
— Robert Turner ’02

 

What is this great power that
7 7 Mr. Bush is about to lead, if not a
democracy? A republic? No, a pure
republic would just be a representative democracy, but
again there is highly unequal inﬂuence among electors. In
truth, this land is an oligarchy. A relatively small elite con-
trols our communications (and thus our subconscious be-
liefs), our production of necessary goods, and our elec-
tions (and thus our State and education). ‘
George W. Bush, far from a true leader, is but a tyrant of
our oligarchy.

 

“I played billiards.” “I had a meaningful lunchtime
- Chris McAleavey ’04 conversation.”
- Kim Gray ‘04

B 9 ristine Metzger

 

“I was going to dress up like Robert E. Lee
and run around campus, but I didn’t..”
— Courtney Perry ’04

 

 

PAGE 4

JANUARY 22, 2001

History unfolds f L stunts

Students travel to

Washington, D.C.

for inauguration
By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

At the presidential inauguration this
weekend, several Washington and Lee
students, including myself, joined over
750,000 people in wet conditions and
chilling temperatures to watch George
W. Bush take the oath of oﬁice as the
43rd president of the United States.

Some students were lucky enough
to have ticketed seats through their
connections in Washington. Others
were forced to take the Metro into the
city at 8 a.m. to get a decent place to
stand on the National Mall. Junior
Mike Reynold was one of the lucky
ones with a ticket, and had a seat be-
hind the Senate chamber.

“We could see [Bush’s] face,”
Reynold said.

Out of curiosity, I met, talked with,
and photographed protesters. One
couple proudly exhibited their child —

THE 43111) PRESIDENT. Chief Justice William Rehnquist adminsters the presidential oath to

probably no more than ﬁve years old
—- in front of a sign that said “Bush is a
major league a* *hole.” A few demon-
strators decrying Bush’s plan to begin
oil exploration in the Arctic Wildlife
National Refuge dressed as polar bears
and yelled throughout the ceremony.

One group of protesters brushed
past a group of Girl Scouts to cap-
ture $50 bleacher seats reserved for
campaign contributors and shouted
“George Bush, racist murderer!” Oth-
ers displayed satirical signs, such
as “Bush thinks with his Cheney.”
Civil Rights Leader Rev. Al Sharpton
and his followers repeated their fi-
ery rhetoric from the recount pe-
riod, after which a 5-4 Supreme
Court decision effectively handed
the election to Bush.

“We will continue to fight until
there is election reform in this coun-

George W. Bush on Jan. 20.

try,” Sharpton said at the rally.

The number of people necessitated
a large police presence in the city. Al-
though most protesters were peace-
ful, police took precautionary mea-
sures, pushing back specatators from
the parade route. Because of difﬁcul-
ties with protesters, police delayed the
parade for over two hours.

Sophomore Myles Svendsen said
that the large number of protesters
nearly ruined his experience. '

“I couldn’t believe the lack of def-
erence they were showing,” Svendsen
said. “It’s alright to disagree with the
guy, but you should at least show
proper respect.”

The ceremony began at 11:40 a.m.
with Vice President Richard Cheney’s
swearing—in, with President Bush’s fol-
lowing at noon. The podium was a

white dot in the distance, and I do not
think we would have known if it was
President Bush and Chief Justice Wil-
liam Rehnquist speaking but for
CNN’s large electronic screens. The
eight-second delay between the
broadcast and the live speech audio

made it impossible to watch and lis-'

ten at the same time.

Bush spoke about the need for So-
cial Security reform and tax cuts. He
also stressed the importance of com-
ing together as a nation, referring to
civility. Calling for "the determined
choice of trust over cynicism, of com-
munity over chaos,” he emphasized
the importance of bipartisanship.
Sophomore David Shriver said he en-
joyed the speech’s unifying message.

“[It] was very encouraging . . .he’ll
be a very good president,” he said.

 

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Following a recent discussion about the relevance of
journalism in the United States today, I decided to bring
the idea home to Lexington and ﬁnally review a beer that
is available to local fans.

In the time that I have written this column I have
tended to neglect Southern microbrews on the simple
premise that Southerners tend to be a little behind
when it comes to fine quality food and drinks, and
that New England is the proper home of fine crafted
beer. Invariably, this has led me to ignore some fine
local ales that should be recognized for their quality
and drinkabilityi

That being said, this week’s Beer of the Week is
Devil’s Elbow IPA, from the Rock Creek Brewing Co.

in Raleigh, NC. _

A hearty IPA with a bit of a kick at the end, Devil’s
Elbow is a standard example of the 18th century ales that
the British brewed to survive the long trips to their colo-
nies. The beer is named after a wily stretch of the James
River called, appropriately, the Devil’s Elbow. For residents
of Richmond, the only way to import ﬁne British beers was
to lead the ships past the Elbow, thus giving this ﬁne beer
its unique name.

Devil’s Elbow IPA is made from ﬁve different malts, in-
cluding 2-row pale and Crystal malts, as well as the distinct
Fuggles and Kent-Golding hops. The combination com-
bines for a rather strong hoppy taste, that while not dis-
tracting too some drinkers, has the potential of turning off
others. A fine deep gold color and rich aroma greet one at
pouring, and the 6.0 percent alcohol content can be a little
hard for some.

Overall, I think this is a rather ﬁne beer, but one must
remember my undying preference for India Pale Ales and
any beer with Fuggles hops. I give Devil’s Elbow, which
received a Silver Medal at the 1997 World Beer Champi-
onships, a 6 on the *9 point Roniger Beer scale. It is
available in town at Main St. Market, and I recommend
it if you are bored and are tired of Kroger’s “fancy beer”
section.

I encourage everyone to drink responsibly and con-
sider quality not quantity in their beer choices. If you have
any suggestions, comments, fun rnicrobrew stories, feel
free to email me at crittendenm@wlu.edu. Otherwise, have
a great week and enjoy your beer choices.

courtesy of dailynews.yahoo.com

Some fortunate W&L students had
the opportunity to go to at least one
of the eight Inaugural Balls, all of
which Bush attended. Junior Susan
Ruge got tickets through her work with
the Republican National Cornittee this
summer. With Reynold, she attended
the Texas—Wyoming and Congres-
sional Leadership Balls.

“It was amazing,” Ruge said. “We
were only about 20 feet from [Bush]. .
. my eyes were tearing up.”

Most students were glad to have
made the trip, regardless of the qualé
ity of their seats, the weather, or any-
thing else that might take away from
the experience. Shriver said that de-
spite the bad weather, lack of view, and
discomfort, he enjoyed the trip. ,

“I'd do it again in a second,”
Shriver said.

i
5
3

krrtesy htt '//usimdb.com§

   

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

‘ 

\_»»
1%’ 0 (l.t'(fI‘I  ())I)III/1(lI‘lI/

LINGER AT A FIRESIDE TABLE
COFFEE - ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - PASTRIES * BAGELS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ° LEXINGTON ° 464-6586

 

SPENDING
 [MIT

www.gettoyola.com 0

Most everyone has them...no one likes them. (Toyota Echo can help.) Echo gets up to 38 miles per gallonﬂthat limits your spending

@ TOYOTA

 

 
 

on gasoline. (Good start.) Echo has an amazing amount of interior room...seating for 5...so it will hold a lot of something, like up to
4 paying passengers on Holiday trips home — positive cash ﬂow to further limit your spending. (Another plus.) Now you try one.
(Hints: It’s Toyota...very dependable. And its an Echo, starting around $13,500 well equipped.) So the next time your spending limits

come up for discussion, you’ll be all set with a positive suggestion...A visit to your nearby Toyota dealer.

"EPA estimate 31/38 4 door, 4-speed automatic. Even better with 5-speed manual.

fl Lc,riI1gt0IL’D'I1I!ilI'oII

 
  
 
 
   

Setoit1gSirtce 1932
xiii.‘ Hours:
. l 11:30 An 10:00l’M
Monday - Snturdarrj
I 12:00 PM v 8:00PM
‘ F‘ Strnrlrnj

J llnr Open 'Til 13:00AM
I 463—3ﬂ2

10% Discount
I with Student ID
All Day Sunday
1 and 8-10 pm
‘ 1 Monday - Thursday
Through
January 51st

 

 

Reservation
required
for parties
of 6 or more

‘casual / upscale dining
lunch / dinner
Located lnTl1o Heart Of Downtown Lexington

—
W54

37 South Main Street 0 Lexington

Gcotgqc 8 Sue Ann Huger. i’mpn'crors ID

 

 

, JANUARY 22, 2001

S

Eh: ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS ,

PAGE 5

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

Having already earned a No. 3 preseason ranking and
posting six preseason All-Americans in Faceoﬁ” 2001
Mens College Lacrosse Yearbook, the Washington and

Lee men’s lacrosse team looks poised to make a run at the

NCAA Division III national championship.

The team garnered even more honors on Tuesday, as
ﬁve Generals were named to the Street & Smith ’s College
Lacrosse USA Preseason All-America team. W&L claimed
four of the 13 ﬁrst-team selections, more than any other
Division HI school.

Senior attackman Matt Dugan, senior midfielder Pope
Hackney, senior defenseman Pete Iwancio and senior

goalie Wes Hays were each selected to the first team. In _

addition, senior midﬁelder Bernie Norton was named to
the third-team squad.

“There is a great tradition of lacrosse here at W&L,
and a lot to live up to accordingly,” Hays said. “We work
as hard or harder than any other team out there in order to
maintain this tradition and that is something that we take
great pride in.

“Our success both individually and as a team reﬂects
these efforts and this year will be no different.”

All ﬁve Generals possess impressive resumes entering
the 2001 season. Dugan earned first-team All-Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference and First Team All-America hon-
ors last season after tallying 55 goals and 32 assists to
total 87 points. He enters the 2001 season with 228 career
points, seven shy of breaking the W&L record.

Hackney was a ﬁrst—team All-ODAC and First Team All-
America selection in 2000 after scoring 31 goals and dishing
out 18 assists for 49 points and winning 40 of his 63 faceoffs.

Iwancio also earned first-team All-ODAC honors last
season and was a Third Team All-America selection. He
helped spearhead a defense that ranked as the second
stingiest in Division HI, allowing an average of just 5.78
goals per game. '

Hays earned second—team All-ODAC and Honorable
Mention All-America honors last season. He ﬁnished sec-
ond in Division III in goals-against average at 5.85 goals
per game and posted a .607 save percentage.

Norton was a second-team All-ODAC and Honorable

W&L’s Mentz reaches career milestone

Two Generals post career
highs in men’s basketball,
but both hoops teams drop
three ODAC games apiece

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Junior Jessica Mentz became just the third General to

A reach the career 1,000-point plateau in women’s basket-

ball, but Washington and Lee dropped three road con-
tests in Old Dominion Athletic Conference play.

Junior Megan Babst posted 19 points and 13 rebounds
against Lynchburg on Wednesday, but the Generals fell
to the Hornets 66-55. W&L shot 24 percent from the field
in the first half, but trailed just 30-24 at halftime.

Lynchburg started off the second half with a 20-7 run
to extend the lead to 19 points. Although the Generals
closed the gap to 54-48 with just over three minutes re-
maining, 10 free throws over the ﬁnal 1:31 of the game
sealed the victory for the Hornets.

Against Hollins on Friday, W&L watched a seven-point
advantage disappear over the ﬁnal 5:50 as the Generals
dropped a 57-54 decision. Hollins led 39-34 midway through
the second half, but W&L quickly turned the game around
with a 14-2 run.

However, Hollins rolled off eight unanswered points to
take a 49-48 lead at the 4:07 mark. Mandy Nichols, who
ﬁnished the game with a team-high 21 points, hit six of her
seven free throws down the stretch to keep Hollins on top.

Babst led the Generals with 26 points and 18 rebounds,
and Mentz followed up her 16-point performance against

4Men’s lacross garners recognition

JUST WEEKS AWAY. Senior Matt Dugan, who with 228 points is just seven shy of breaking the
W&L career record, was one of ﬁve Generals named to the Street & Smith ’s College Lacrosse
USA Preseason All-America team. W&L begins the season against Elmira on Feb. 25.

Mention All-America choice last season after totalling 29
goals and 17 assists for 46 points.

In addition to these outstanding individual perfor-

mances, the team beneﬁts most from being able to func-
tion as a cohesive unit.

“We have a great coach and very dedicated players,”
Iwancio said. “There is a very strong sense of the team
being larger than the individuals who make it up.”

Overall, W&L returns 24 letter-winners to the fold this

Lynchburg with 13 points and eight boards against Hollins.

Mentz passed the 1,000-point mark by scoring 22 on
Saturday in a 63-45 loss to Roanoke. Although they shot
50 percent from the ﬁeld, the Generals turned the ball over
35 times against the Maroons.

Meanwhile, the W&L men’s basketball team suffered
three more setbacks in Old Dominion Athletic Conference
play this week to fall to 2-14 on the year, including a 2-9
mark in the ODAC.

Freshman David Bode’s career-high 15 points weren’t
enough to top Guilford at home on Wednesday, as the
Quakers broke a ﬁve-game losing streak with a 60-54 win.
Although the Generals led 35-34 at the 16: 18 mark of the
second half, a l-for- 13 slump from the ﬁeld allowed Guilford
to pull ahead for good.

Sophomore Scott Hettermann added 14 points and
seven boards for W&L, and senior Will Ballard contrib-
uted 10 points and nine rebounds.

On Saturday, W&L found itself in another close ODAC
contest, and again luck was not on the Generals’ side. De-
spite trailing Virginia Wesleyan by a slim 60-57 margin with
2:34 to play, W&L could not buy a basket for the remainder
of the game. The Blue Marlins hit eight of their nine free
throw attempts down the stretch to secure a 70-57 win.

Senior Chad Braley scored a team-high 14 points for
the Generals, and Bode and sophomore Will Cotter chipped
in 10 apiece.

The Generals fell to Randolph-Macon on Sunday by a
74-65 score. Freshman John Saxon led W&L with a career-
high 16 points, and Ballard complemented his 14 points
with a career best 11 rebounds. Junior Bob Bustamante
nailed down 13 points, and Braley scored 11.

The women’s team (5-9, 4-7 ODAC) hosts Guilford at 7
p.m. on Tuesday, while the men’s team meets Emory and
Henry at home at the same time on Wednesday.

Wrestlers place sixth in invite

By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

On Saturday, eight teams competed
in the armual W&L Invitational wres-
tling tournament. The Generals ﬁnished
sixth in the event, won by Davidson.

Senior captains Josh Chamberlain,
Greg Valentine, and John Sensing
placed in the 149-pound, 165-pound
and heavyweight classes, respectively,
and senior John Valentine won the con-
solation bracket at 184 pounds.

Chamberlain vied in the final
match against Scranton’s Anthony
Politi, but was defeated 16-6, taking a
second place ﬁnish. Sensing and the
Valentines each placed third in their
classes.

Davidson took first place with 76

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

LOCKED UP. Freshman Joe Mueller (right) wrestles Wesley
Koteski of Washington & Jefferson in the W&L Invitational.

Ursinus Quadrangular.

  
        
    
 

photo courtesy of Sports Information

season, including nine of its top 13 scorers from last year’s
16-2 squad that advanced to the NCAA Division HI semiﬁ-
nals before falling to Salisbury State, 10-9.

“We’ve got some really outstanding freshmen coming in
who will have to contribute a lot and are quite capable of it,”
Dugan said. “I think all the seniors have enough experience,
talent and desire to take us as far as we can go."

Throughout the season, the Generals will carry with
them one chief goal: to win a national title.

, photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
FINDING THE OPEN MAN. Senior guard Chad
Braley looks to pass in the Generals’ 60-54

loss to Guilford at home on Wednesday.

Coming in February...

Previews of W&L spring sports, plus
continued coverage of winter athletics.

Generals fal to Johns kins

Visiting Blue Jays
defeat both W&L

swim teams
By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee swim-
ming teams suffered a setback in their
current homestand against Johns
Hopkins on Saturday.

The men’s team fell to 6-2 on the
season with a 163-93 loss to the Blue

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
UP FOR AIR. Junior Anne Lachiewicz swims against Johns I

 

points, while W&L took sixth with 41.

One of the team’s top wrestlers, 197-

), pound junior Ezra Morse, was unable
to compete in the tournament.

“We were a little disappointed (with

the placement),” W&L head coach

Gary Franke said. “One of our wres-
tlers was sick, and I think that hurt us
in the team race. Almost all of our se-
niors placed, though.”

W&L will compete next Saturday
at 9 a.m. in Collegeville, Pa., in the

“There will be two of our biggest
challenges competing,” Franke said.
“But we’re hoping to wrestle well and

try to get some good seeds for the‘

conference.”

Jays, while the women’s team lost 170-
70 to drop to 3-6 on the year.

Freshman Eric Ritter won the 100-
meter backstroke for the Generals, and
sophomore Brett Bums placed ﬁrst in
the 50—meter freestyle event.

Hopkins on Saturday. The women’s team fell to the Blue Jays A
170-70, and the men’s team dropped a 163-93 decision.

The men’s and women’s teams con-
clude their homestand on Friday with a 6
p.m. contest against Randolph-Macon. 4

Sophomore Michelle Moore led
the women’s team by ﬁnishing first in
the 100-meter backstroke.

 

 

PAGE 6

Almost enough to
make you worry about
America’s youth

Gilt: iﬁing-tum lﬂlii

LASTWORD

   
  
 
           
       
    

rntﬂmsww

'0/'9/7/em/oi//II/II

 

Welcome, my friends, welcome. I see
that my foretelling that you would read
this article has already come true. Do
not fret, though, the amazing powers of
Mama Clio and her mysterious tarot
cards are boundless. The tarot cards
never lie. Especially when explained over
modes of media such as telephones,
Internet, and newspapers.

Come on, hon, let Mama Clio ease
your troubles with the cards. By telling
you things about yourself that you al-
ready know and giving you a vague sense
of optimism, I will allow you to ratio-
nalize your problems so that they do not
seem so overwhelming. Just listen to
these satisﬁed customers, who know the
true power of the cards:

'I‘railer-Park Sounding Woman: .

Hello, Clio?

Mama Clio: Yes, Hon, what can I do
for you my dear? Do you want me to tap
into the awesome powers of the spiri-
tual realm to read your past, present, and
future before the world?

T-P SW: Yah—huh.

M. Clio: Tell me your name and sign.

T-P SW: My name is Thelma and I ’m
a Scorpitarius.

M. Clio: Yes, a Scorpitaﬁus I could feel
that. You are most deﬁnitely a Scorpitarius.
You sound bold and successjul.

Thelma: Well, I got a raise at the
salon from $3.15 per hour to $3.17 per
hour. Sharla said it was ‘cause I was
the most best stylist she had.

M. Clio: Now, letrne call upon the an-

Eihi

Thelma: Thats incredg-able! With my
raise, we are really moving up. We even
just bought ourselves a brand-new ’83
Chevy S-1 0 with only 357,000 miles on it
—- everybody’s jealous.

M. Clio: Hmm. . . the Knight of
Carts. I am seeing that you are living
with a man.

Thelma: How did you know that?
Claudius just got out of jail three weeks
ago and moved back in with me, Geana,
Captain Feathers, Sergeant Feathers,
Private Feathers, and mama.

M. Clio: Oh, dear. I see I have re-
vealed the. . uh. . . the Castle of Divi-
sions. This Claudius man that you live
with. . . is there some kind of tension
between him and your mother?

Thelma: Oh my, yes, there is.
Claudius ran over Corporal Feathers. . .

4.“...
4‘ -.4,‘

4.-.

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464 - 4483

%i°Wrl’*

      
   
 
   

cient and '5‘: Was that
a r c a n e not astound-
powers of ing? The

-the tarot cards can-
cards to not lie be—
divine the cause it is
mysteries against the
of your law in the
life. I’m Astro-Realm
looking tolie.Listen
into the to another
realm be— satisfied
yond. Ah— customer:
ha, the Two
of Coins! M a In a
That means Clio: Hello,
your ﬁnan— how can
cial status is changing. . Mama Clio and the spirits help you?

Female voice: I ’m having trouble
with my husband, Frank.

M. Clio: Is this Kathy Lee Giﬂord?

Kathy: Yes, it is. How did you know?

M. Clio: Clio knows all. . . especially
since the advent of Caller—ID. . .

Kathy: What was that?

M. Clio: Nothing. . . nothing. So how
can the spirits help you‘?

Kathy: I ’ve been having problems
with Frank. He just does not love me, in
the ways that a man and a women ex-
press their feelings physically, the way he
used to. He just doesn ’t seem to have the
energy or desire anymore.

M. Clio: Let me check the cards. The
Grande’ Adonis. This means your hus-
band has a tremendous sex drive. You
should have to beat him off with a stick
to keep him away.

Péaiﬂméaie

JMII/0'/6'/ﬂ

Kathy: But he hasn’t touched me
for seven months. . . and that was when he
accidently dropped a cashew in my lap.

M. Clio: I will call upon the super-
natural and mysterious aid of the spirits
again to divine what is wrong with your
husband. Oh, no, no. . . it’s the Cheer-
leader ofMisfortune. I am afraid that your
hasband has been cheating on you.

Kathy: But he promised me he
wouldn’t ever do it again if we could
only just satiate his desire for Scandi-
navian culture by hosting Swedish
swim-team foreign exchange students.
. . that bastard. Well, I ’m going to ﬁnd
out who he is been messing around with.
In fact, I ‘ll even enlist Nadia and Helga
to help me track down the slut. Thanks,
Mama Clio. ‘

Now that you have seen the true pow-
ers of the Tarot Cards revealed to you,
how carmot you resist not calling? For
only the low, low price of $1.99 per
rninuteyou can have the attentions of a
professional psychic and tarot reader.
We might not be able to solve your prob-
lems, but at least we will listen to you
whine about your life.

Who knows what mysteries the fu-
ture may entail for you: love, money, re-
lationships, wealth, marriage, riches,
sexual encounters of the satiating nature,
and cash. You might never find out what
your true potential is if you do not call
immediately. Come, seek comfort in the
warm bosom of Mama Clio — the spirits
decree you should do so.

 THE RLACE FOR FOOD AND rum .r

 HUNG .7 REMEMBER ouR KITCHEN
R IS oREN....LATE 1  
1 6 oz. T~BONE STEAK w/BAKED POTATO AND

,«.  ‘'3’ 35.4 W] )”_”_A_

M1xED GREEN SALAD $ 6. 50

EVERY MONDAY 8:30 P.M. TO MIDNIGHT

JANUARY 22 - DJ DAN COPP‘

JANUARY 29 - JOHN SHAIN

ACOUSTIC, AMERICANA 8: BLUES
FEBRUARY 5 - ROBERT JOSPE

JAZZ (co-sPoNsoRED BY SAB)

JANUARY 22, 2001

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

