U112 ‘ilting-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

JAMES G.  .. .
.V.VA3HiNG’l”Ot\t 1. rahﬁiiﬁiln

L£‘:X:'\i':'i';'D°.,§‘ VI‘. 1;“;-0

 EP 1 will)

I

VoL. 103, No. 6

Commons
design selected

By Michael Crittenden

CONFRIB UTING EDITOR

With construction on the sorority houses and athletic
practice ﬁeld nearly complete, Washington and Lee ad-
ministrators focused their attentions on a new project this

summer: choosing an architect for the much-anticipated

University Commons.

The University announced VMDO architects as the
preliminary selection for the Commons project this sum-
mer, selecting the Charlottesville  from a short-list of
ﬁve national ﬁrms vying for the job. Members of the ad-
ministration met with the ﬁrms over the summer and heard
presentations and received preliminary sketches of each
ﬁim’s ideas.

David L. Howison, W&L’s Dean of Students, said the
choice was a good one for the University.

“[VMDO] took a very creative and original approach,”
Howison said. “Of the ﬁve designs we saw, they had the
most innovative.”

The University Commons project, to be located across
from Doremus Gym where faculty-staff parking currently
is located, is the next in the long-line of campus improve-
ments being made as part of the most recent University
Plan. Other projects have included the oft-delayed parking
garage, new turf practice ﬁeld and the sorority houses.
Administrators hope the Commons will ﬁll a void that has
existed for a long time at Washington and Lee.

Though the school does have a University Center, the
limited size and meeting space have rendered the U.C. fairly
powerless in fulﬁlling the needs of student groups. With
this in mind, the University set out to find an architect that
could fulfill the University’s needs. In VMDO, they think
they found one.

According to Howison, the real hook behind VMDO’s
proposal was their use of the 1909 campus plan, and its
prioritization of protecting “the Park”, otherwise known as
the wooded area between the Woods Creek Apartments
and the back Colonnade. The VMDO design makes a “pri-
ority of protecting the environment,” according to Howison,
and the VMDO designed the building to work with the
environment. The preliminary drawing administrators saw
this summer_ included an amphitheater, a movie theate , stu-
dent ofﬁces, and, of course, columns.

“I thought it looked really good,” said senior Nick
Cimino, who saw the drawings this weekend. “The Com-
mons is a much—needed improvement, and I think they are
on the right track.”

Hailing from Charlottesville, VMDO has worked on a
number of local Universities, including Radford, Sweet Biiar
and the University of Virginia. Architects from the ﬁrm are
currently meeting with students and campus employees to
form a ﬁnal design, which they will propose to the Board of
Trustees in October. At that time, the Board will vote on
whether to approve the design or to ask the firm to change
it. If approved, construction would begin soon thereafter.

Area residents

Lexington and University
communities come to terms
with twin disasters

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Lexington residents are still trying to come to terms with
the twin tragedies of a plane crash and church ﬁre, which
occurred in the space of two and a half months.

“Everyone is just so sad and upset that this happened
to us,” said Lexington resident Kathy Pfeifer. ‘‘It was bad
enough to have the ﬁre, and then the plane crash came so
soon after that.” -

The ﬁrst disaster occurred on July 18"‘ at the Lexington
Presbyterian Church, an historical and architectural state
landmark as well as the church of Confederate General
Stonewall Jackson.

Between 9 or 10 o’clock a paint stripper ignited a ﬁre
which eventually engulfed the entire body, despite the best
efforts of the Lexington and the Rockbridge County ﬁre
ﬁghters.

“This is so saddening, but it’s a blessing that no one
got hurt,” says Lexington residence Peg Maass.

“The burning of the church,” said City Manager Jon
Ellestad, “has had the biggest impact ever on the people of

Lexington. I think the people are now wondering what will

Ellie iﬁing-tum lﬂlii

September 11, 2000

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2000 A

photos by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

THE Aunrrorrs (Top): Students from all
undergraduate and law classes attended Fall
Convocation on the Front Lawn

THE ORATOR (BOTTOM): Dr. Francis Fukuyama,
author and professor, gave the address.

Fukuyama stresses social capital

By Matt McDermott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Social capital, human—capital, and
shared values were the topics of Dr.
Francis Fukuyama’s address during
last week’s Fall Convocation on the
Front Lawn. ’

Author of the best-selling book
The End of History and the Last Man
(Avon Books, 1993), Fukuyama is the
Omer L. and Nancy Hirst Professor of
Public Policy at George Mason
University’s Institute of Public Policy.
He also serves as director of the
Institute’s lntemational Commerce and
Policy Program and as a consultant to
the RAND Corporation, a public policy
think tank.

“Social capital is the basis of social
trust. . . of keeping commitments,” said
Fukuyama in his Convocation ad-
dress. “It is common social ends met
on a voluntary basis.”

dress, Fukuyama contrasted con-
temporary American society to
post-Communist Russia and South-
ern Italy, whose epidemic corruption
is not due to “formal laws and insti-
tutions but [rather to] their lack of
social capital.”

While America possess a deep res-
ervoir of social capital, Fukuyama sees
a trend in American society stemming
back from the “Great Disruption,” the
decades of change following the
l950’s. These years, he said, beneﬁ-
cially liberalized American society but
also“/loosened the social ties that
bound Americans together.

Many Americans today, he said,
“don’t participate politically, don’t in-
form themselves about important pub-
lic issues, they sit in their gated com-
munities not talking to their neigh-
bors.”

Despite a reduction in the radius of
trust, demonstrated in part by the in-
crease in crime and the decline of tra-
ditional civic organizations, Fukuyama

believes that there is no evidence
that American society is heading
down an irreversible slope. Point-
ing to events in the past century,

he demonstrated a period of moral _

regeneration from a period where
alcohol consumption was more
than ﬁve times greater per capita
than currently.

Along with civic associations
and faith based organizations,
Fukuyama believes that many ills
of society can be healed by insti-
tutions such as Washington and
Lee, which demands “high prin-
ciples of personal behavior” and
which has “an institution of very
deep traditions and a very good
record of success.”

Fukuyama is also the author of
Trust: The Social Virtues and the
Creation of Prosperity (Free Press,
1996) and The Great Disruption:
Human Nature and the Reconsti-
tution of the Social Order (Touch-
stone Books, 2000).

During his twenty-six rriinute ad-

reﬂect on recent catastrophes

happen next.”

According to Ellestad, Lexington Presbyterian Church
has made preparations to begin rebuilding the church and
restoring it to its original condition. He said, “It will take a
couple of years, but these people have the will and the
money to make sure they build it back to its former state.

A little over a month later, on August 30, at 5:30 p.m., a

. 1959 Piper Comanche single—engine airplane dropped out

of the sky to crash onto Washington Street next to the Pi
Kappa Phi fraternity house. According to the Air Trafﬁc
Control, there were no signs of any trouble until the plane
snapped a wing and crashed, scattering debris over a
square mile of downtown Lexington.

Lexington Police Lt. Steve Crowder said that the crash
threw body and plane parts throughout the surrounding
area. The crash and resulting investigation caused resi-
dents of nearby Davidson Park to move out of their frater-
nity houses so that ofﬁcials could continue the investiga-
tion.

Among the crash debris, investigators discovered a
white, powdery substance. Contrary to wide—spread ru-
mors that circulated following the crash, the tested sub-
stance was not found to be cocaine, according to Virginia
State Police First Sgt. Joe Peters, whose department tested
the substance.

Ellestad said that the causes of the plane crash will take
time to straighten out. Investigators began moving debris
from the crash site on Thursday, August 31.

They have now relocated the majority of the wreckage
to the former Reeves Brother's Warehouse in Buena Vista,

Cat’s Corne
Plea to sophomor ‘

where the National Transportation Safety Board will re-
construct the plane in order to determine the cause of its
malfunction and crash.

According to the NSTB, they will issue a preliminary
report in a few days and a ﬁnal report in approximately six
months.

The Lexington community is still seeking closure.

“These events both really were wake-up calls for our
community. We’ve always claimed that Lexington is such
a bedroom community where nothing goes on,” said
Crowder. “[These events] really made us stop and take a
reality check.” ‘

Although residents were disturbed by the events, some
feel that they will have no long—terrn effects on the area’s
reputation. Travel Counselor Rosanna McMillan of the
Lexington Visitor Center said, “I don’t think these recent
events will have any real effects on Lexington’s tourism.”

Still, she adds, “Everyone says that bad things come in
threes, so maybe we should be prepared for more.”

Students at Washington and Lee are a little bemused
too. Alex Poor, a member of Pi Phi, commented: “It deﬁ-
nitely put a new perspective on what I’m doing here, be-
cause a few guys lost their lives and then two days later
everything went back to normal.”

, “It’s really unrealistic that these events both happened
so close together. You wouldn’t think they would happen
in Lexington.” Emily Tyson, a freshman added.

“The tragedies don’t really affect my view of W&L,”
says Joey Agaye, junior. “These things are bound to hap-
pen. It’s just an unfortunate that they had to happen.”

‘ E-mail General Notes to 
'  lu du "

W&L Raises Record Total of $48.7 Million

Washington and Lee raised a record total of $48.7
million during the last ﬁscal year, surpassing the record
of $34.5 million raised in 1995, the ﬁnal year of the “On
the Shoulder of Giants” capital campaign.

W&L’s total of $48.7 rriillion raised marks an increase
of nearly 46 percent from a year ago. W&L raised $26.3
million last year.

“It's just a testament to the support alumni and friends
have for W&L,” said Tom Jennings, director of Univer-
sity development. “It's a great vote of conﬁdence for
our future.”

Included in the total was more than $16 million of
unrestricted capital gifts and another $11 million for
scholarship endowments, all other endowments and for
plant funds. I

Additionally, a record total of $4.1 million was do-
nated to the Annual Fund, which directly supports the
operating budget of the University. A total of 10,338
alumni, parents and friends contributed to the Annual
Fund, including nearly 44 percent of all alumni and nearly
40 percent of parents of current students.

In the area of planned giving, 34 separate gifts were
made with a total of $3.2 million in assets transferred.
W&L also received just under $12 million in the gifts in
trusts held by others category from the J. Edward Lewis
'29 estate. —courtesy W&L web page

Tips for fresh My ex;   Mr. Success

tattoos

— (or how much alco-

 

PAGE 2

Cﬂhe iﬁing-tum lﬂhi

  PINION

SEPTEMBER 11, 2000

Y’all want
a Coke?

When America’s youth go away to college, an adjust-
ment to the greater workload, added freedom, and ensuing
responsibility takes place. While adjusting can be some-
what rocky at first, most incoming freshmen eventually ﬁnd
their niches on campuses throughout the nation.

As part of freshman orientation week here at Washing-
ton and Lee, my fellow classmates and I found ourselves in
our advisors’ ofﬁces, our minds set on taking our first steps
toward academia

 

ThePat1iot
lJoelPepera’04

hol was consumed
the night before,
one of the two).

Talk of classes _
and majors and professors swelled from the hallowed halls
of W&L as the class of 2004 registered for fall classes. Of
particular interest to me this week has been the University’s
foreign language requirement. As I toured the beautiful
W&L campus and continued to meet fellow freshmen, I
soon realized that I had already begun the study of alan-
guage more foreign to me than Spanish —— the unique dia-
lect of the South.

There are many words heard on campus whose mean-
ings I haven’t the slightest clue, but I am eager to learn.
Most prominently used was this strange combination of
two words, ‘‘y’all.’’ I am completely perplexed as to the mean-
ing of such a contraction. I have adjusted to the fact that
my Eastern classmates keep asking for “soda” instead of
pop, but I have yet to understand this habit of of ordering a
“Coke” when a root beer is the desired drink.

There was much, it seemed, I needed to learn. Pleased
with my newly-found academic interest, I quickly consulted
my course guide to ﬁnd such a class to fulﬁll my foreign
language requirement.

My excitement turned to disappointment, however, when
I discovered there was no department, nor a single course
in Dixie jargon. I was shocked! Where was “RDNK 101:
Introduction to Southern Speech?” Why wasn’t this a part
of the general education curriculum? I was bafﬂed. The Uni-
versity didn’t offer help to bridge the gap in dialect, so I
decided to look elsewhere.

I considered going to the Liberty Hall Volunteers for guid-
ance, but I was waryof offending anyone with that large of
an arsenal. (That reminds me — I’m not sure if word has
reached Lexington yet, but up in Michigan we heard long
ago that the war was over.) Unable to think of any further
resources of use to me, I was left with no other option than
to continue in my ignorance.

‘ Desperate for knowledge, I petition this University to
develop a curriculum to educate carpetbaggers like me in
the traditions of the South. We could participate in grammar
lessons in which we would learn that in order to make the
word “y’all” plural, you must lead with “all” to produce the
phrase “all y’all.’’

Who could question the academic merit of that? With-
out such an education, I am left alienated from my southern
classmates. I feel that my education will not be truly liberat-
ing education without it.

I ask in all sincerity that this worthy discipline be added to
the classic liberal arts curriculum that is Washington and Lee.

 

uote of the week;

  

“ It’s Security

Appreciation Day.

—Security Ofﬁcer Larry on the almost non-
existent attendance to Saturday’s SAB concert,’

one amt;-mm tam

Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Max Smith

Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jacob Trotter
Jessica Jones
Tiffany Friedel
Bryan Early

Executive Editors

News Editor
Assistant News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&L1fe Editor

Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor

last Word Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Pjjjublications Board elects the Executive Editor, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
. Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

LET THE GAMES BEGIN. . . Students wait on long

photo by Emily Bames/Executive or
lines to register their cars, check personal

information, and receive class schedules during matriculation last week.

Blocked out of English, 

It strikes me as odd, even ironic, that the one wrinkle
in an otherwise smoothly run and enjoyable Freshman
Orientation program happened to be the component with
the most bearing on what I have always considered to be
“School”: course registration.

Yes, I was somewhat nonplussed when I arrived in my
advisor’s ofﬁce at 10:30 in the morning on Tuesday to learn
that all of the courses in areas as basic and essential as
English and Physical Education (let alone presumably less
popular subjects like Philosophy, Ancient History and even
Public Speaking) were ﬁlled and deep

By contrast, the upper-level (300) English classes are
far from ﬁlled. Out of nine available classes, none have
reached the 25 student limit. In fact, there are a staggering
94 available spots in total. That’s 94 freshmen needlessly
denied access to English.

Likewise, practically every physical education class
that might be considered a “sport,” from bowling to vol-
leyball to badminton, is ﬁlled and has a sizable waiting
list. Want to try self-defense or ballet, or perhaps learn
how to rock climb? Too late, sorry.

into waiting lists.
I understand that a small univer-
sity has fewer teachers and there-

Just

Mike Press ’04

About the only PE class not
Another Frosh booked completely solid is

Therapeutic Exercise, whatever
the heck that is.

fore fewer classes; nevertheless, why ‘
the heck does the English department offer more upper-
level classes when the introductory classes are stuffed
like pillows and the advanced classes aren’t even close
to being ﬁlled?

Why not offer the courses that best reﬂect student
interest? And for that matter, why not offer more physi-
cal education classes?

It seems to me that any student interested in playing A

some sort of sport should at least be able to play at a
club level instead of having to wait and hope for better
luck in the winter registration.

An examination of the numbers exposes the current
systems ﬂaws.

As it stands, the English department offers six intro-
ductory Composition & Literature courses that altogether
can accommodate 140 freshmen. With well over 400 fresh-
men, most of whom have not satisﬁed their English Com-
position graduation requirement, simple math shows that
the majority of freshmen will be barred from English this
fall.

Indeed, the waiting lists for the six Comp. & Lit. courses
number 74 students, and chances are good that many more
freshmen would have added their names if they had thought
they stood any chance of gaining admission.

Last Monday night, the freshman class participated
in the “Campus of Difference" activity. The goal of the
activity, designed and sponsored by the Anti—Defama-
tion League, was to make freshmen more aware of the
myriad of racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic groups that
exist on campus. The program was instituted following
an uproar concerning the Idaho
delegation’s “exclusionary” Mock
Convention T-shirt. The program
was facilitated by well-trained up- I
perclassmen, who were quite
knowledgeable and eager to de-
liver a message of inclusion to the freshmen.

Unfortunately, the premise of the activity was way
off base. The ADL clings to a world-view that may have
been appropriate in 1913, but doesn’t represent the opin-
ions and prejudices of young adults in 2000. Those who
put on the program incorrectly assumed that all fresh-
men enter W&L as bigots and need to be trained to

TALKback:

   

“Getting to live with a bunch of
upperclassmen who I’ve never
gotten to live with before.”

-Claire Smith ‘03

 

“The fact that so many of us can live
.anyone in the chapter can
come over and hang out.”

together...

All in all, the PE department
has room for 1245 students this fall — which leaves'ap-
proximately 450 students without any sort of “sport,” to
use the word loosely.

Granted, many students might not want to be involved
in athletics this fall, but I would bet that number is far less
than 450 (over a quarter of the school).

Furthermore, even those students who do get to play a
sport probably will not get to play the ones they wanted to
play: 175 students signed up for 24 available spots in bowl-—
ing, l82 for 36 spots in self-defense, 152 for 36 places in golf,
and 198 for 70 positions in racquetball.

Varsity Beirut, anyone?

Of course, there are plenty of classes in plenty of
departments that aren’t as oversubscribed as English,
PE, et al. Yet I will bet I am not alone in my frustration
with the current registration process and the inevitable
disappointment it brings (except for all of you eight-
o’clockers!).

I am hardly asking for the administration to scrap
the current method of Web Registration and start anew;
rather, I simply ask that the school work harder to match
student interest — both academic and athletic — with
a fitting number of courses.

I think I’ll be getting up a little earlier next year.

The ADL drums up business

relate civilly with members of other racial and ethnic
groups. Students born in the feminist l980’s and raised in
the politically—correct l990’s have been trained for decades
to be sensitive and tolerant. In fact, the ADL, and organi-
zations like it, have been so effective at removing racism
and hate from mainstream culture that they have put them-
selves out of business.
Tragically, the liberals who run such

 Frosh organizations cannot stand to no
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

longer be in positions of power and
inﬂuence. To make up for this lack of
bigotry, the ADL sponsors activities
such as the “Campus of Difference.”

Such presentations ask students to examine artiﬁcially
the “groups” to which they belong. One speciﬁc activity
from Monday night had each student deﬁne himself with
four “descriptors.” The trick was that all the adjectives
had to describe some racial, ethnic, geographic, age re-
lated, or socioeconomic category.

Cat’s
Comer

 

By Christine Metzgcr

 

After a year away from sweet little Lexington, I have arrived
back at long last to the fanfare of my senior year. Since many of
you out there believe I am a freshman, I ﬁgured now was as
good a time as any to introduce myself. Most of my friends call
me Christine, my mom-given name, but some of them (okay,
one of them) call me Cat.

So as I mentioned I was away all last year. No, I didn’t run
away and join the circus or have a baby or live off a trust fund.
I willingly left this bucolic paradise and ventured to the other
side of the pond as a visiting student at University College,
Oxford. (You seem impressed.) All nerdiness aside, I lived in
a bustling city where I depended on my own feet for trans-
portation, had my lion’s share of pubs and clubs to choose,
felt ashamed to wear jeans, sneakers, overalls or a baseball
cap. (Children, take note: we have a lot to learn about fash-
ion here in Lex.)

You can imagine how shocking it is to come back here, land

of urban assault vehicles, khakis-and-plaid—shir1s, general ho--

mogeneity. Maybe you can’t if you and the Bubble have a too
tight relationship. Don’t get me wrong, I consider Lexington
my home more than any other place in the_ world and love it for
all of its verdant glory. There certainly were things thatl down-
right hated about Oxford — large ltmg—ﬁlling amounts of pollu-
lion, people—unﬁiendly traﬂic, a bus stop outside my window.
Things British people take as part of daily life chafed me to no end
— separate hot and cold water taps, power showers (yes, show-
ers powered by electricity), funny heating (funny meaning not
working so well). I don’t miss having to bodycheck tourists of
all nationalities at 8:45 in the morning while they’re clogging the
streets so they can photograph their day—t1ip to Ocksferd.

It’s also wearying to be a foreigner everywhere you go,
having to explain why your accent sounds the way it does,
why you’re not fat and stupid like all Americans, why it’s not

. possible to nip to Los Angeles for the weekend. (For British

people, used to living on a very compact island, their concept
of American geography is skewed at best.)

After finishing off my whirlwind year of jetsetting by
spending a month in the wilds of Alaska, I returned home.
Lexington hasn’t changed, even a smidgen. Okay, we have
a sumptuous new parking palace and ﬁve sorority houses
with lush green tennis courts for their front yards. And
Night Owl is gone-how much that loss saddens me I cannot
tell you. My other favorites are still hanging on, even with
the Wal-Monster lurking out on 11: Pappagallo’s, the Blue
Heron, Sunday’s Child, the Palms.

Something I don’t dig so much about this ﬁne university:
Being asked numerous times the ﬁrst week of school, “Are you
a freshman?” I don’t go out in herds, I can drink legally, I
haven’t hooked up in ages, I practically carry a cane and walker
I’m such an old lady. But because half of the school has never
seen me before, I apparently send out desperate freshman girl
vibes. When I am much older I can imagine I would leap with
joy if someone mistook me for a wee girl of 18. I’ve survived
enough years in the Science Center and I’m damn near done
my gen—eds and for that I think I should get some respect. I am
not alone in this sentiment which had been voiced by many of
my ﬁne fellow senior ladies. A little advice —— ask, “What year
are you?” Boys (and most of you are still boys), please stick to
scarnming on your fellow classmates. Girls, and this is mainly
the sophomores, watch who you’re trying to rush. I’m already
in a sorority, thanks. Two would simply  too much — my
hands would fall off from all the clapping.

So, kids, take a break from hooking up and talking about
what you did in high school, study my picture and the next
time you see me out (which albeit is not that often), think be-
fore aslcing “Are you a freshman?”

. . . yet again

What the ADL hasn’t yet ﬁgured out is that the world
has become that idealistic. Whether it be because of actual
social progress or just fear of litigation, bigots and racists
have been chased from the worlds of business and academia.

We have largely achieved what Dr. King so fervently de-
sired on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial nearly forty years
ago. We do judge people by the content of their character.
Such activities only retard social progress or completely turn it
around. The only possible effect of requiring that students
deﬁne each other in terms of their ethnicity is that long-forgot-
ten stereotypes rnight be remembered. That is not a rosy pros-
pect, but it is the only way the ADL will stay in business.

Without defamation, the ADL would be no more. Many
civil rights organizations have been left behind in a world
that no longer separates people into the categories they at-
tempt to destroy.

They have done their job well. The ADL and all other
similar groups should give themselves a pat on the back and
fade into history.

What’s the best thing about living in a sorority house?

to get something to eat.”

-Margaret Penn ‘O1

 

“Walking downstairs in your pajamas

-Kate Mobley ‘O2

 

 

“It’s fun and convenient to live with a
lot of friends.”

-Ernily Scale ‘02

 

 

be  WAl§l_TED:l__> _

 Strategists

 Quick Thinkers

l""”"_:“—j’j""“‘"""“"‘-"“"‘T""""

 Team Players

r————-——~— »—————~——~—————~-:-

 Achievers

Meeting our clients’ expectations todeliver innovative
  y tinancial solutions requires intuition, strategy and teamwork.
On weekends they call it court vision. What’s your game plan?

Goldman, Sachs 8: Co.
Controllers Department
Interviewing on Campus

Tuesday, 0ctober,24, 2000

Be Part of Our Team!
Submit Your Resume to the Career Services Office

by no later than:

Thursday, September 21, 2000

joldnan
L arhs

. MINDS. WIDE OPEN?”
www.gs.com

Goldman Sachs. an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws. © 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co.

:’3*.{I1§}.5>t--~.‘>'€§'o"3;’}'(.'°$H'1‘.}

PAGE 4

By Jeremy Franklin

STAFF WRITER

Washington and_ Lee put to-
gether a string of 26 unanswered
points, winning their season opener
for the first time since 1984, 32-19
over Johns Hopkins Saturday at
Wilson Field.

Bobby Littlehale completed 17—of-28
passes for 199 yards and a pair of touch-
downs in his first career start under cen-
ter for the Generals. Davis White, who
finished with eight catches for 107
yards, was on the receiving end of both
scores.

“It’s just a wonderful victory for the
program,” W&L head coach Frank
Miriello said. “It gives the kids a whole
lot more conﬁdence. They worked hard
for three weeks, and they get a pay-
check like this.”

Johns Hopkins, which hadn’t lost to
the Generals since 1962, turned the ball
over four times and ﬁnished with just
12 yards rushing.

Blue Jay head coach Jim Margraff
expected some of the miscues, espe-
cially considering the youth of his 2000
roster.

“lt’s always tough to lose, and it’s

certainly tough to open up with a loss
on the road,” Margraff said. “But
W&L played very well today, and
we’ve got a lot of question marks.
We’ve always treated (the season
opener) as a time to look at a few dif-
ferent guys and play a number of dif-
ferent players.”
. Both teams struggled early on of-
fense, as Andy Vendig kicked field
goals of 30 and 37 yards to give the
Generals a 6-0 lead less than a minute
into the second quarter.

Johns Hopkins scored on its next
two offensive series, as Rob Heleniak
connected with Zach Baylin on touch-
down strikes of 17 and 11 yards to put

the Blue Jays up 13-6 with 58 sec-
onds to play in the half.

Had Miriello trusted his first in-
stinct, that score would have re-
mained undisturbed going into the
break.

“At that point, I was thinking we
should kill the clock and go into half-
time,” Miriello said. “They said, ‘Hey,
let’s run our one-rninute drill.’ That
was a critical series, looking back on
it.”

Littlehale completed four of his
ﬁve pass attempts on the drive, in-
cluding a 31-yard touchdown to
White, as W&L knotted the game
with nine seconds to spare.

The garne-tying drive also gave
the Generals some needed momen-
tum, which they used to roll off 17
unanswered third quarter points.

“They got tired, and we put a little
more pressure on them,” Miriello said
of the Blue Jays. “Our kids were ﬁred
up coming out of the locker room.”

The Generals struck up a 17-play,
81-yard drive to open the second
half, capped off by Vendig’s 29-yard
ﬁeld goal with 6:54 to go in the quar-
ter. W&L converted on two fourth
downs during the series, including a
21-yard run by lineman Justin Holton
on a fake punt.

Johns Hopkins went three—and-
out on their ensuing offensive pos-
session, and a blocked punt put
the W&L offense deep in Blue Jay
territory. The Generals wasted little
time finding the end zone, as
Littlehale threw his second TD toss
to White less than two minutes
later.

After Matthew Stavish inter-
cepted a Heleniak pass, Marc
Watson dashed 29 yards for a score,

giving the Generals a 30-13 lead. A '

fourth quarter safety on a botched
snap would push the advantage to
32-13 before the Blue Jays scored

@112 IRing-tum iﬂhi

SPORTS

W&L wins Opener: a ﬁrst in 16

Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

THE WAY To VICTORY: Sophomore Davis White makes his way through the John Hopkins
defense to score a touchdown at the end of the second quarter of Saturday’s game.

with just over seven minutes remain-
ing on the clock.

“The second half, (W&L) did a
great job of putting the ball in the end
zone,” Margraff said. “We just got
outplayed in ‘that respect, and
outcoached too.” p

Despite the loss, Margraff was able
to pull a few positives out of the game,
including the play of Heleniak. The
junior completed 19-of-29 passes for
247 yards and three touchdowns.

“Rob did some good things-some
things that you need in game situa-
tions.” Margraff said. “Overall, I was

M051’ W&L Students
use Alcolso

and Health
Educaﬁon
Office

B.1sc(l on M/&|. (‘()Rli Survey (ldld from ‘I098, 100‘), 2000

pleased with the way he threw, and
the way he led the team. He’s just go-
ing to get better.” .

Although the Generals scored just
one rushing touchdown, the backﬁeld
racked up 180 yards on the ground.
Miriello was pleased with all aspects
of the unit’s performance.

“This was the first start for Bobby
Littlehale,” Miriello said of his quar-
terback. “That’s a lot of pressure, and
he responded very well,‘-he’s a very
poised young man.

“Marc (Watson) and Chris
(Sullivan) are two quality tailbacks. The

fullbacks-Eric Toney and Kyle
Overstreet-are coming up too, so
we’ve got a nice backﬁeld.”

The primary concern for the Gener-
als now is how they will respond to
their ﬁrst season-opening win in 16
years.

“We haven’t been here before, so
how we’ll react to this is a concern,”
Miriello said. “But this is absolutely
wonderful.”

W&L opens its 20()() Old Dominion
Athletic Conference schedule next
Saturday with a 1 pm. road contest
against Guilford College.

SEPIEMBER 11, 2000

photo by Emily Burner/Executive Editor

2000 ATHLETIC HALL or FAME INDUCTIES: The award recipients gathered to be recognized at
the football game halftime ceremony. Pictured are Buck Leslie, Jr.‘74 (accepted on behalf
of his father, Buck Leslie, Sn), Joe McCutcheon (center top), and the 1950 Football Team.

Help Wanted

University Spot-{wear

Call 464-3000

Weekends

  

Glitz Ring-tum lﬂhi 1

SPORTS

SEPIEMBER 11, 2000

 

PAGE 5

  ‘Men’s soccer steals
“win in season opener

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The W&L Men’s Soccer team
opened their season in an overtime
scorcher Saturday against Catholic
University. Coach Piranian commented
on the heat, saying “The preseason
was never this hot.” The Generals
opened the game with an aggressive

- attack that kept the action in Catholic’s

end for most of the first half. Despite
repeated efforts by the Generals’ of-
fense, however, Cardinal defenders
Keith Kappo and Adam Kuemmel and

to step up for the Generals.

The first goal came fifty—eight min-
utes into the game whe the Cardinals
scored on a header from Junior Pat
Heenan. The Generals scored ﬁfteen
minutes later with 16:26 left to play in
regulation, when Junior Andrew
Grimes put a shot past Magin. The
Generals’ offense came close yet again
with 2:13 left to play when another shot
from David Kodack went over the goal.
Both teams were playing back and forth
when the second half ended.

The ﬁrst fifteen-minute overtime
period opened with sophomore Tim
Foley in goal for the Generals. The Gen-

LET’s no rr, LADIES: Women’s volleyball team gets psyched for their Friday night

match against St. Mary’s.

Emily Bames/Executive 0 Editor

    

goal—tender Todd Magin kept the ball erals offense went in aggressively
out of the net. Magin set the tone for again, with shots from Phillip Miller and This Week '8' SC/l(’dlll(’ in GB]! (’I‘(l[ (II/I](’fl'('.\'
stingy defensive play 15 minutes into Bret Grote. Later, the Generals failed to
the game by making a save against Se— capitalize on an effort from Senior Jacek Football
L nior Jon Wilson, seeing through a Mucha and Junior Andrew Grimes. Saturday Sept. 16 at Guilford 1:00pm
screen during a free kick. The Generals Four rriinutes and thirty-four seconds
dominated in their own end, with good into the second overtime period, Men’s Soccer
passing and pressure, giving no op- Sophomore Brad Murphy picked up a Thursday Sept. 14 at Southern Virginia 4:00pm
portunity to the Cardinals’ offense. long pass, ran down the right side, and Saturday Sept. 16 Randolph-Macon 1:30pm
With the clock winding down in the drilled in a low shot to beat Magin for
ﬁnal minute of the half, the Generals the win. Murphy, who had previously Women’s Soccer
were still pouring on the offense, again, been denied by Magin said afterwards, Wednesday Sept. 13 Randolph-Macon 4:00pm
only to be thwarted by Magin. “Ryan Nelson put the ball to my foot Saturday Sept. 16 Eastern Mennonite 11:00am
The second half opened with de— and I turned around and went to the
cidedly more offensive pressure from the goal because I saw nobody coining”. Volleyball
Catholic Cardinals. The Generals retali- Said Coach Rolf Piraiiian, “We’re happy Wednesday Sept. 13 at Lynchburg 6:30 pm
ated with tight offense that came close to win. . . we’re still getting our game
several times. A kick from Jon Wilson legs.” The Generals were chosen 6th Men’s Cross Country
went wide, followed a few minutes later in the preseason Old Dominion Ath- Saturday Sept. 16 Generals Invitational 10:30am
by a shot from David Kodack that went letic Conference. Their next game is .
over the crossbar. The defense showed Thursday at Southern Virginia, after Women’s Cross Country
signs of slowing in the second half when which they return home on Saturday Saturday Sept. 16 Generals Invitational 10:00am
Senior goaltender Jordan Ginsberg had to face Randolph-Macon.

Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

THUNDERBOLT: Andrew Grimes’s punishing kick blasts by Catholic U. defenders to tie the score.

   Hundmds of New, Thousands ofd 

   

  * Trade * Special Orders

   

     

Notice to all Student Leaders 

wAsHn\IGToN AND LEE

PARENTS WEEKEND 2000

November 3 and 4

If your organization plans to sponsor a Pan-ems ‘Weekend
event which will be open. to all parents and students, please
contact Nellie Rice. Parents Weekend coordinator. Payne Hall 3.

or Tarwa Giassman, nirector of Student Activities. tmiversity center.

as soon as possible but in: later than. September 29, 2000.

Hull's

drive-in theater
4 mi Fit 11 N., Lexington 463-2621

Gate Opens 7 pm
Movies at mask
$4 per person * Great Foodi

FRI * SAT * SUN

1st FEATU FIE:

SPACE COWBOY s(PG-13)

Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones

A E  sTRiE'i‘J)gr1)utRNAi,, iBr§RRON'S 2nd FEATURE:
- man: at :: I 3!  maifiﬁmnns    (PG)
Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver

(3921:: Everyday 9 am

www.hu||sdrive-in.com  

   

 
  
 
  

'40 .o?o‘§o §c..g'o,°...o-o,-.

 

:5 THE 2NoHANosHoié  

M '7 s. JEFFERSON ST. . we
‘ 0
:31 LE‘XiNGTONi.'VA. 24450 .. a 3:1
I .
. - * Q
zzig/0 it
‘o i ,  #21
3 ‘ ‘ I euv mo SELL {is
i.- ANTIQUES mo JUNK H
. MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS ‘ _
 1 V _ 9
t. . _ 1 o
 FREDDIEGOODHART -
it A w , C’:
o:

  

O

 

’SH0P(703)'‘4¢:i-75s9 4‘ ' ’_‘
HOME (703) 4613-5064 _w.

 

 
 
 
 

 

PAGE 6

&

@112 Ring-tum lﬁltt

IFE  

SEPTEMBER 11, 2000

Get a tattoo, go to a
drive-in. . . in Lex?

Lexington
welcomes new
body art shop

By Ashley Klimp

STAFF WRITER

Historical Lexington witnessed the
arrival of something old and something
new with the establishment of Painted
Lady Tattoos and Body Piercing and
the return of Hull’s Drive-In.

The Painted Lady, which opened
on the 13th of July, is named after its
owner, Robin Hartman. ‘The Painted
Lady’ had been her nickname for years,
stemming from her intricately drawn
tattoos, which include a ﬂowering vine
and a parrot. She and her husband Phil
Hartman own the store, where John
Alls works as a piercer and Mark
Greene works as a tattooist and piercer.

The Hartmans chose Lexington for
two reasons. First, the closest compe-
tition is in Roanoke. Second, Lexing-
ton is a college-town twice over.

Some, however, feel that the Painted
Lady is a little out of place amidst the
antique stores and quaint shops and
restaurants.

“Our biggest concern about open-
ing in Lexington was [that] it was his-
torical and more conservative than what
Harrisonburg might be,” said Hartman.
“We’ve been welcomed basically. Most
of the business people we talked to have
come by, welcomed us, and told us good
luck . . The town manager [Jon Ellestad]
who issued our business license wished
us the best of luc .”

_photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

No PAIN, NO GAIN. Co-Owner Phil Hartman displays some of the
designs available at the new tattoo and piercing shop on

Jefferson Street.

The Painted Lady features many
styles of tattooing, including the “old
school” style, with bright colors and
wide lines and the “fine line” style,
which is very detailed and intricate,
similar to a pencil drawing.

Piercing is also a complex art. Tra-
gus, Conch, Helix, and Anti-Helix are
all different areas of ear cartilage that
can be pierced, along with eyebrows,
nostrils, and septum (the cartilage wall
separating the nostrils). For the brave

of heart, there is'the Marilyn, which
is an earring placed through the cheek
much like a beauty mark. Then there
are the piercings below the belt. . .

So far, the artists at The Painted‘

Lady have mainly catered to the
needs of Virginia Militray Institute
cadets and the townspeople. Not
many Washington and Lee stu-
dents have ventured into the store.
As the year progresses, however,
that may change.

 

18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

PROBLEM WITH THE LOCALS .7

WERE FROM ATLANTA.

THIS WEEK AT 8.]. '5
MONDAY~ MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL PARTY

TuES'DAY- 8 ~‘BALL POOL TOURNAMENT OF
CHAMPIONS - CASH RRIZES

WEDNt:'S‘DAY~ 9-BALL POOL TOURNAMENT or
CHAMPIONS - CASH PRIZES

THURSDAY - KARAOKE wrm DARYL or ,srAg3m»_1£
FRIDAY - D. J. JOE or 0//ETQ LAw on THE MIKE
SATURDAY - FRANKIEJACKSON “ms rcrrts

MAsm2”o~ me MIKE

SUNDAY - OPEN MIKE NIGHT avouvz
CHANCE To snow vow: srurr. If You
PLAY me eurmz on me moo, SING

Drive-In revived
by donations and
Hull’s Angels

By Ashley Klimp

STAFF WRITER

Though Hull’s Drive—In is not a new

business, its retum is making waves. It A

originally opened in 1950 and operated
continually until 1997, when the drive-in
was sold to a family friend who opened
it but found it too expensive.
Concerned residents of Lexington
held a meeting to see if the drive-in’s
closing could be forestalled. A result of
that meeting was Hull’s Angels, a non-
proﬁt organization dedicated to the pres-
ervation of the drive-in. There is a ﬁve
dollar fee to join. Since its establishment
membership has grown to over 500.
The driving force behind Hull’s An-
gels are Elise and Eric Shefﬁeld, who
organized the original meeting. They

   
   

oto courtesy of Elise Shefﬁeld

Go SPEEDRACER.ThiS classic car, a 1954 Oldsmobile Rocket 88, will
be the grand prize in a raffle at Hull’s Drive-In on Sunday night.

have arranged to lease the drive—in for

two years with the intent to buy. ‘

Though now it is only a question of
when the organization will own Hull’s,
it was not always the case. At the end
of the 1998 school year, Hull’s Angels
even approached fraternities and sorori-
ties for donations. With the help of the
Washington and Lee Greek societies as
well as various donations from other in-

dividuals and organizations, Hull’s Drive-

./

8

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

TAKE ONE FOR THE TEAM. This brave reporter gets her ear pierced
at the new tattoo parlor in the name of good journalism.

  WINA TRIP
FOR TWO T0

AFRICA

This year the cast of MTV's
’T he Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

 6
€299

 

/

’¢%C%;g;lZ«/'
wondwtdovacauam
tormtossyanrolda

   

Enter For a chance to win at your
local Council Travel office or at
counciltravel.com

This trip to Africa is provided by

wrgm '
atlantlc

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..

in has been preserved.

“The great thing about Hull’s is
that it is for everybody,” Elise
Sheffield said. “It’s a common
ground, where people from all walks

of life come and have a good time to- '

gether and there’s not many places
where we can do that.”

Hull’s Angels is unique in that it
is run on a strictly non-proﬁt basis.
Putting all proﬁts right back into the
drive-in allows the business to keep
prices fairly low (only $4.00 for a
double feature). Hull’s Drive-In, one
of only nine in Virginia, was featured
in People magazine.

This coming weekend Hull’s Drive-
In will be featuring a special event Any-
one owning a classic, hot rod, or muscle
car is invited to enter a full hour early
(at 5:30) for a chance at the best park-
ing places. This presents a chance to
not only enjoy the movies, but also to
view many interesting antique cars at
no extra cost. The highlight of the week-
end will be the rafﬂing of a turquoise
and cream 1954 Oldsmobile Rocket 88
on Sunday evening.

like

W

Would you

money?

For us?

to make

OR WHAT~E\/ER THIS IS YOUR NIGHT w.."§.'.'.",’.°..'.'g.‘a'.1§.‘if‘i-i‘.‘2.'.Ig°..i’.2§‘$8i«£ﬁ’§’.§1‘.§;".§’l‘i,o The Phi is in Search
I]:      to counctltravelcom. weepstako ends 10/15/O0. of a Busggess Manager.
- ’ ‘,-a W; Intereste . Let us know. ,
16 02. T eowe STEAK wmr A BAKED POTATO Phl@Wlu-ed" x4060 A" 

counciltravelcom
1-800-2COUNCIL

 

AND MIXED GREEN SALAD  6 . 50

 

 

PAGE 8

LAS TV/Eiib

 

I SEPTEMBER 11, 2000

.7a aaa‘/p am... me an

By Bawbwa Wawtawrs

“I DRESS LIKE A MAN”

New freshmen here at
Washington and Lee have the
doubly difﬁcult task of adjusting not
only to college life, but also to the
hectic, non-stop lifestyle of the
Lexington metropolis. Freshman
John-Boy Malton from Malton
Mountain, Virginia, has been
struggling to make the transition.

RTP: What was your home-life
like?

John-Boy: I ’ve never really got
to see much of the world back at
the mountain, but I mean Ma,
Pa, Bubba, Suzy, ‘Lizbeth, and
Gran ’Pa were all I really
needed. We always pulled
together during the tough times
like when the barn burned down,
when the house got ﬂooded,
when a herd of nicotine-crazed
ground hogs ate half the tobacco
crop, and when a bear mistook
Suzy for a salmon. All those crazy
adventures made us a very close
family.

RTP: Is living here in Lexington a
big adjustment for you?

John-Boy: I worried about
coming to a cosmopolitan area
like Lexington. I thought that I ’d
be swept up in the excitement of
big city life - I mean, not only is
there a Wal-Mart, but there is
also ‘a K-Mart. Golly, two marts!
Boy, Ma and Pa won’t know

what to do with me when I come
back a “Big City Man.”

RTP: How do you like living in the
infamous W&L dorms?

John-Boy: It’s been great - I love
all the extra space I have. Back
at home I shared a bed with
Gran ’Pa and Jebidiah the Pig —
it is so nice to have a roommate
that is housebroken, unlike
Gran ’Pa. My bunk-buddy,
Maximillion G. Thurstan I K has
puzzled me a bit, though.

RTP: How so?

John-Boy: He told me that I
couldn’t stay in my dorm room
Saturday night because he was
going to bring some sort of cat
back to the room. I told him
that back at the Mountain we
had all sorts of pets and I
wouldn’t be bothered by him
bringing a cat in . . . he insisted
on my leaving, though, saying
some chicks just don ’t go for
that sorta thing. I told him I
kept some chickens back at
home and they didn’t seem mind
me . . . but I guess I just don’t
understand city folk.

RTP: Have you had any concerns
or problems thus far?

John-Boy: Well, after Suzy got
mauled, I have always kind of
been concerned about bears. So
I asked that horny, hippy
Catholic guy, Furr, if there were

any of them around here and
he told me that W&L didn’t
have any bears, but rather
something worse the
“Lexington Po-Po. ” He warned
me that if I park my Model-T
out in the street too long they
will “tow my ass in a heart
beat” and if they catch me
drinking, they will “lock me up
in the local p_ound-me-in-the-
ass penitentiary. ” I do not know
what sort of liken ’in these “Po-

. Po” have with doing things to

my ass, but frankly I don ’t like
it.

RTP: Is there anything here that
you’ve really liked?

John-Boy: Well, the girls here
do all sorts of things that
‘Lizbeth and Suzy never did
back home — like take oﬂ their
shirts if you give them beer. I
like to see boobies.

RTP: What do you plan on
majoringin?

John-Boy: Probably reading.

Already, John-Boy is beginning to
ﬁnd his niche here at W&L. He
discovered the time-honored
W&L tradition that many other
freshmen use: imbibing large
dosages of alcohol to make most
of his problems disappear - it’s
hard to feel awkward around the
opposite sex or too boring to hold a
conversation when the only thing
visible is the bottom of a toilet.

FRESH EACH MORNING

' vb
WW 9, yaw. yet“. ‘A
‘)-(0., Av» ,°’=,a,°f'~.,v

we .*"”‘”t%

ESPRESSO ° CAPPUCCINO ' FRESH ROASTED COFFEES 0 FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON .0 464-6586

   

Moran. Du:-ivy/L 07: mg I/EEK.’

This column is dedicated to continuing the Honor System ‘s legacy by challenging students to constantly think about the nuances of

gentlemanly honor, its place in the Washington and Lee Community, and individuals’ personal responsibility to uphold its high

ideals so that the University can remain an eternal pillar of integrity, high moral values, and enlightenment for another 250 years..

IF YOUR ROOMMA TE STEALS YOUR
POTSTASH, Do YOU TURN HIM IN?

V

Advantage.

Year in and year out, employees at education and ‘
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREE.
And for good reasons:

- Easy diversification among a range of expertly
managed funds

0 A solid history of performance and exceptional
personal service I

0 A strong commitment to low expenses

0 Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options

For decades, TIAA-CREE has helped professors and staff
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for—.
and enjoy—successfu| retirements.

Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple.
Go with the leader: TlAA-CREF.

PrETlHE'MENl INSURANIE 'MUlU/-IIEFUNIJS TRUSTSERVIHEES TUITIUNFINANEINE

Why is  the
#1 choice nationwide?

  The TIAA—CRE

 
 
   

Investment Expertise in

 
  
 

Low Expenses

Customized
Payment Options

Expert Guidance

A A

Ensuring the future

1.800.842.2776

for those who shape it.“

www.tiaa-cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully

before you invest. - TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the C REF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. 0 Teachers

Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. 0

TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. 0 IIAA-C REF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.
_ 0 Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. © 2000 TlAA~CREF 08/03

I

 

 

