 

U.

‘ VOLUME 103, No. 15

I

112 ﬂting-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The recently formed Alcohol Task Force be-
gan to take action this past holiday weekend.

Task Force Student Representative junior Will
Coffman sent an email to all students and faculty
on Nov. 15 detailing the group’s initiatives.

According to Coffman’s message, the task
force recommended the university supplement-
ing Live Drive over Christmas Weekend.

In addition to the usual student drivers,
coaches drove University vans from Davidson -
Park, Red Square, Gaines Hall, the freshman
dorms, and the East Lex/Windfall area. Assis-
tant Lacrosse Coach Jim Rogalski headed the
effort.

“Instead of only students driving, we have
administrative individuals helping out [who] have
more at stake [and are] more dependable,”
Rogalski said.

Reid Hall to be renovated, wired

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Reid Hall’s proposed renovations aim to modernize the joumal-
ism department.

“To respond to the growing number of students and to the radical '
changes in the profession, Reid Hall needs to be updated,” Head of
the Journalism Department Hampden Smith said.

Improvements include the addition of a conference room and a
multimedia lab that will allow students to experience the increas-

  

UNDER CONSTRUCTION. Reid Hall, the home of the
journalism department, will soon be renovated.

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬂlti

December 4, 2000

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer

 

ingly overlapping print, broadcast, and web medias.

“What I am most looking forward to is having classrooms and
labs that make it a regular practical possibility to be able to teach in
the way we ought to be teaching these days, which deals with multi-
media capabilities in the classrooms,” Smith said.

The changes were designed to increase the program’s competitive-
ness and to better support the growing number of majors in the ﬁeld.

Reid Hall, built in 1904, was originally used as a chemistry building.
The journalism department moved in 35 years ago. At the time the
department had eight majors.

“As far as age is concerned, we’re the oldest place that really has
not had a physical improvement to speak of,” Smith said.

Journalism faculty, university planners, and architects discussed reno-
vation plans throughout the Fall semester. In January the university will
accept bids on the project. Construction should begin in early June.

During the renovation, the journalism classes, labs, and offices
will be moved into five modular buildings. Smith said the department
should move from the modulars to the newly renovated Reid Hall in
the fall of 2002.

Reid Hall also houses the Univeristy Registrar and University
Photographer Patrick Hinely’s darkroom. The Registrar’s office will
move to the bottom ﬂoor of the University Center on Lee Avenue
across the street from the International House. Hinely will move to
the Development Office behind the Science Center.

University Plarmer Tom Contos said he is pleased with the planned
renovations. -

“Now is a good time to renovate Reid Hall because the building .
. . is getting to be a century old,” Contos said. “With 44 majors, the
journalism department needs room to grow.”

 
   
  
  
 

,T .1 V _
for shoppi

Some gift ideas f
holidays

 

W&L spreads holid spirit

   

The drivers drove about 50 to 60 students
Friday night. Rogalski hopes that more students
will use the service.

“It’s something [,we’d] like to do every week-
end,” he said.

Coffman’s email also mentioned the need for
improved enforcement of existing party policies
set by the InterFratemity Council.

IFC advisor Burr Datz said that fraternities
are requried to have a bartender of legal drink-
ing age who monitors the legal distribution of
alcohol and not display it openly. Greek orga-
nizations are also required to have sober of-
ficers at every function. He said he hopes
these measures, along with the university’s
additional efforts, will ensure a safe Christ-
mas weekend.

“[My hope is] no injuries, no crashes, no ar-
rests, and no incidents that involve alcohol
which draw attention to those individuals,” Datz
said.

JAMES G. LEVBURN LIBRARY’

WASHINGTON 1. LEE umvensnv

t.EXi.\§GlT.‘—*.'sl, VA 24459

i £30520!!!)

I

MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2000

.9:

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer

SANTA LIVES. Senior Jeff Cook entertains local children as part of Saturday’s International Holiday Celebration, arranged by
the Student Association of International Learning and N abors Service League. During the event, children made international
Christmas cards, listened to holiday stories from around the world, decorated cookies, and learned about origami. The
highlight of the program was the international-food lunch buffet. Children were encouraged to try everything, receiving
stamps on their “passports,” for each food sampled. Attending parent Jane Wilder said, “We are all excited about
Christmas now, and I will definitely bring my child back next year for this.”

-By Colin Harding, staff writer

Task force Works for safe weekend

Dean of Students David Howison vis-
ited each fraternity Saturday night to make
sure they were complying with the IFC rules
and the measures adopted by the task
force. Howison hopes the university con-
tinues its efforts for future big-party week-
ends.

“I think an adult presence at events like this
can do a lot,” he said.

Datz, who also visited several houses,
agreed that the weekend went well, but said he
wants to see students take over that responsi-
bility.

“Students need to exhibit their ability to regu-
late their own social scene,” he said.

Howison said he enjoyed getting a sense of
what a W&L party weekend is like.

He also said he was impressed with how well
fraternity members controlled their parties.

“I found it to be an enjoyable and rewarding
evening,” Howison said.

 

Lexington parades Yuletide spirit

GOING BUGGY. One of the the winning “floats”of the Lexington Christmas
Parade, driven by junior Lily Holleman, rides by.

?1.

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

 

 

 

 
 

 

PAGE 2

Cﬂlpz iﬁing-tum iﬂljt

NEWS

DECEMBER 4, 2000

 

By Mehul Srivastava

STAFF WRITER

Euthanasia legalized in Netherlands

The Netherlands became the first country in the world
yesterday to legalize euthanasia. The Dutch Parliament
approved by 104 votes to 40 a bill guaranteeing doctors
immunity from prosecution for mercy killing and assisted
suicides provided they observe a number of strict
cOnditions.Leader of the the largest party in the ruling
coalition, Ad Melkert said that the bill would give “free-
dom of choice at the most emotional moment of one’s
life.” '

The justice minister Benk Korthals said, “A law
whereby the considered wishes of a dying patient to put
an end to his life are permitted has its place in a mature
society.”

Opponents accused the government of failing in its
duty to protect human life.

“What is currently a crime will be transformed into a
medical treatment,” the International Anti-Euthanasia Task
Forces Rita Marker said. No other country has such a law,
although euthanasia is tolerated in Belgium, Switzerland
and Colombia as it has been for years in The Netherlands.

,In America, the state of Oregon allows doctor—assisted
suicide to the terminally ill. In Australia, the Northern
Territory legalized it in 1996 but repealed the law the fol-
lowing year. _

Under this law, the patient’s physical or psychological
condition must be unbearable and untreatable. This will
have to be corroborated by a second physician. Foreign-
ers will be barred from this procedure as doctors must
have a long—standing relationship with their patients.
Doctors will be required to report cases of euthanasia to
coroners. Dutch cancer surgeon Aycke Smook, who has
performed 95 euthanasias, said most patients sought pre-

mature death more to die with dignity than to escape pain.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

THE ‘WORLD

THIS WEEK

Ebola spreads throughout Uganda

The deadly Ebola virus continues to spread unabated
in Uganda. The first reported case this year was on the
14th of October, but since then all attempts by Ugandan
ofﬁcials to stop the spread of the disease have failed.
Ugandan ofﬁcials recorded another death from the deadly
Ebola virus in the southwest of the country last week,
while 14 others died from the highly contagious virus in
the north. The country has started gearing up for a major
epidemic, with people still being discouraged from treat-
ment of their dead, since the bodies of Ebola victims help
spread the disease. People are still not shaking hands or
eating in public places in the town of Gulu, 225 miles
north of Kampala, where the outbreak originated. Health
ofﬁcials believed that they had contained the virus by
rnid—November, until a soldier carried the disease to the
southern part of the country, where seventeen new cases
were reported last week, In all, 145 people have now died
of the disease.

Ramadan honored by ceasefire

The holy month of Ramadan, a time of fasting for Mus-
lims, began this week, prompting the Indian Government
to announce a unilateral ceasefire in Kashmir. The Gov-
ernment said that it hoped that this would allow peace
talks to resume. They were earlier suspended because of
the Indian govemment’s refusal to allow Pakistan into
the discussions.

While Indian forces remained on high alert to thwart
any attempt to create violence in the state, 12 people were
injured on Friday in a failed attempt by militants to attack
a convoy of Army vehicles, hitting a market full of people.
The blasts were aimed at causing maximum damage, with
the bombs exploding 15 minutes apart, both close to the
J arnrnu and Kashmir Courts Complex.

The leaders of the Hurriyat Conference, the politcal
wing of Islamic militants in kasmire, has called the ceaseﬁre
a “war of wits.” It remains to be seen if the Indian govem—
ment will withdraw the ceaseﬁre or not.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

CHRISTMAS MUSIC. Junior Noelle Beckman, freshman Daniel Vos, and junior Steele Cooper
prepare to perform a seasonal arrangement Tuesday night in Lenfest Center’s Keller Theater.

Christmas ﬁsh surprise Kappa Alpha Order

By Matthew McDermOtt

NEWS EDITOR

Brothers in the Kappa Alpha fraternity house woke up
Friday to the smell of dead ﬁsh and other foul odors after
four members of the Larnba Chi Alpha fraternity dropped
catﬁsh food and anchovies down a radiator, sources said.

The raid occured during Christmas Weekend, coin-
cided with the house’s holiday festivities. Other KA chap-

ters were also visiting the house and had to endure the
odorous prank.

The W&L chapter is the oldest house of the Kappa
Alpha Order, which is headquartered in Lexington.

Inter-Fratemity Council Advisor Burr Datz plans “to
hammer down on those involved.”

He also warned against reprisals.

“In sports, the person that retaliates gets the foul,’’
Datz said.

,.E-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.ed

 

Holiday Choral Concert at W&L

The Washington and Lee University Chorus will present its armual Holiday Choral
Concert on Tuesday, Dec. 5 at 7 p.m. in the Keller Theatre. The 80—member ensemble I
will perform a concert of music ranging from traditional holiday favorites to a Renais-
sance setting of the Mass.

Adding variety to the concert, the men will present Victoria’s “Ave Maria,” and the
women will sing an arrangement of the popular Hanukkah song, “Nes Gadol Haya
Sham,” accompanied by ﬂute.

As is traditional, the audience will be invited to sing along with holiday carols. A new
addition to the concert will be carols performed on handbells by Laura Myers. To conclude, the
audience may participate in the singing of Hande ’s “Hallelujah” from “Messiah.”

The chorus is conducted by Jerry Myers and accompanied by Sarah Heusel ‘O3
and Josh Harvey ‘00. The Holiday Choral Concert is free and open to the public.

Indian Writer to Lecture at W&L

Arnitav Ghosh, one of the best—known Indians writing in Eriglish today, will speak
on “Faith and Fundamentalism” on Dec. 4 at 7p.m. in in room 327 at Washington and
Lee’s Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics. His talk will address the
impact of religious intolerance, especially on writers, and is jointly sponsored by the
University Lecture Series and the department of religion’s Schewel Fund.

His ﬁrst novel, The Circle of Reason, won the Prix Medici Estranger, one of
France’s top literary awards. The Shadow Lines, the tale of a Bengali family caught in
the hostilities between Hindus and Muslims during the 1947 partition of India, won
the Sahitya Akaderni Award, India’s most prestigious literary prize.

 
  
  

  

  

  
 
  
  
 
   

 

  
  

, WANT TO SEE
YOURSELF IN
COLOR IN THE

YEARBOOK?

TURN PICTURES INTO THE
CALYX, W&L’s
I 05- YEAR-OLD ANNUAL

PLACE SUBMISSIONS IN BOX OUTSIDE OF
CAROL CALKINS OFFICE IN THE UNIVERSITY
CENTER. SENIORS, PUT FORWARDING
ADDREss ON BACK; UNDERCLASSMEN,
PLEASE PUT NAME AND CLASS YEAR ON

BACK (so THEY CAN BE RETURNED TO YOU !)
Any questions please e-mail -
willettsr@wlu.edu

 

Lexingtorr’s Feel Good Store!

Cards ,

GLGVV STARS, PGSTERS, Il\TC3EI\TSE,
CA1\TIDLES 8: SCIEI\TTS, I1\TSPIRATIC)1\T

Bangles, Beads & Baubles
Stationary 8: Stickers

Angels, Faeries 84 Devag
l'9IP‘$p T9?’ 3 JOQRS 

Cassettes, CD'S, Books & Celendars

learn fa Play Again
9)‘ .§'una’a_I,/ 2' C’ﬁ/'/05’

©16 N. Main St. © Lexington © 463-v:I.SUN (1786) ©
Open 10-6 Mon.—Sat. and 12-4 on Sun.

Bring this Ad in for a 20% discount off of any one Item purchased.

3

 
 

 

, OFil“\”i1oN  
i A brief defense of college hoops

DECEMBER 4, 2000 PAGE 3

Now that preseason tournaments
have come and gone, I ﬁnd it appropriate
to pause and wonder how sports fans

survive the annual seven—plus—month I
‘ hiatus taken by college basketball.

But then again, the shortness of
hoops season is one of the many rea-
sons that the sport is absolutely the best

. this nation has to offer. To defend NCAA

hoops against

fraction of the teams to qualify, take
over two months to draw to a close.
March Madness. In no other sport
can a Coppin State or a Valparaiso rise
to prominence in a matter of weeks, only
to disappear as quickly as they surface.
And of course there’s Billy Packer, the
former Wake Forest All—ACC guard who
has called the Final Four for 26 years.
The match-

 

the NBA would
be too simple;

  ' Thelinejudge
Jeremy 8. Franklin ’O4

up zone and
the four cor-
ners. The cre-

 

so, instead, I of-
fer a short list of
why the period from mid-November to
the ﬁrst of April is the most wonderful
time of the year.

Dick Vitale. No one else brings as
much energy as Dickie V to television
in general. He’s not the best analyst
in all of sports (that would be
baseball’s Peter Gammons), but he
adds more to college hoops than even
Gamrnons can to the Major League
Baseball season.

The venues. Sure, Michigan and
Tennessee can seat six digits of fans
in their football stadiums. So what?
Cameron Indoor Stadium (Duke’s
homecourt, for the uneducated) is the
toughest place in all of sports to play,
with the Pit (New Mexico) and Cole Field
House (Maryland) not too far behind.

A reasonable postseason. Only
college basketball combines a large
number of teams with areasonable time
frame for postseason play. The NBA
and NHL playoffs, despite allowing a

ations of two
of the game’s greatest coaches,
Temple’s John Chaney and North
Carolina’s Dean Smith, have improved
the game more than is generally ac-
knowledged. The NBA doesn’t even
allow true defense to be played, yet
still names an All-Defensive team at
the end of the season. Meanwhile, the
Dean’s creation revolutionized the
offensive game, and is a big part of
the Tar Heels’ 26 consecutive NCAA
tournament appearances.

Finally, the greatest rivalry in all
of sports. No professional rivalry car-
ries nearly as much weight as Duke-
Carolina; therefore, the only competi-
tion comes from college football games
such as Army—Navy, Harvard-Yale, and
Michigan-Ohio State. But the former
two lost much of their luster as the
teams receded from national power sta-
tus, and I’ll take Mike Krzyzewski and
Woody Durham over the Big House
and John Cooper any day.

 

.Letters to the Editor

Gore appeal unfairly portrayed
Dear Editor,

‘, I note with interest the column “Right Side of the Aisle”
Nov. 13, where the author says, “Gore’s got to go, Gore
has lost the vote, Gore should concede, Gore has demon-
strated that he is unﬁt to be president, etc.”

Rubbish.

'‘ While there are many things going wrong in Florida,

Gore has done nothing wrong in exercising his right ask-

ing for a recount, whether Bush partisans like it or not. I

would remind the author that the first recount was auto-

mati’c,.and with all the stories‘of missed ballots, unopened
boxes, both sides should honestly be wanting to make
sure that the will of the people is accurately followed. Of
course, both sides are politicians, and thus both sides are
out to win by any means necessary; the instant Bush’s

I people ﬁled that lawsuit seeking to halt the hand recounts,

they jumped in the pigpen as well. Furthermore, it shows

extreme arrogance to tell Gore to concede without a ﬁght
when the man has the lead in the popular vote. The author
called it a “measly lead;” I remind him that it is still a lead, and

I know that it would not be so “measly” if Bush had it. Heck,

I know that that 537 lead Bush has now ain’t measly, is it?

If anyone has shown himself to be (further) unﬁt to be
president, it is Bush, for assuming the role of president-

A - elect before anything had been ﬁnalized. I agree that the

media has screwed up royally in putting that image in his
(and our) head, but who is to blame for his keeping that
f image there? How dare he begin to organize and assume,
V when the ﬁnal result is still up in the air? There is a line

Clip: ﬂing-tum Iﬁlti

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
News Editor Matt McDermott
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Contributing Editors Michael _ Crittenden

Max Smith

Jessica Jones

Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Photographers Mary Guy
Ashley Daly
Martha Edwards
Colin Mitchell
Graphics/Cartoonist Monica Schoenthaler
Online Editor Ginger Phillips
Bu.rine.r.s' Manager Paul Seifert

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

‘The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059

between conﬁdence and arrogance, and Bush has crossed
that line many times over.

I am surprised at how vehement many Bush support-
ers are against Gore’s efforts. I didn’t expect them to be
happy or sit idly by and watch, but neither did I expect
such “brownshirt” riot tactics. Wasn’t Gore supposed to
be the one trying to win by any means necessary? What
really disturbs me is that the Republicans are trying to
ﬁght down democracy by ignoring those uncounted bal-
lots. In a race as close as this, Gore is completely justified
in wanting as full a count of votes as possible. He may be
partisan in asking for them in democratic counties, but he
DID offer a statewide recount. In rejecting and ﬁghting
down this offer of true democracy, the GOP and Dubya have
become what they claimed to be against; people out to win
by any means necessary.

By the time you read this, hopefully, everything will be
resolved. Pray for the man who gets the White House,
he’ll be the unluckiest guy in history.

Sincerely, I
Geoffrey Marshall ‘02

Honor code routinely broken

Dear Editor,

There has been signiﬁcant dialogue on this campus lately
regarding the potential inclusion of alcohol—related issues
and sexual assault into W&L’s honor system. I applaud this
discussion and hope that it materializes into real change.

However, some people seem to attribute different “de-
grees” of honorable conduct to their own actions. For
example, I recently heard two students behind me dis-
cussing a paper they had to write on a certain book. One
student complained about the length of the book, and the
other student said, “That’s why you should have read the
Cliﬂs Notes!” The first student replied. “But we have to
write a PAPER on the book. So we really need to actually
READ the book itself.” The other student said, “Well, I
still wrote a paper just having read the "Cliffs Notes.”

Is this action honorable? I do not believe so. We
cannot continue to define honor violations as “lying,
cheating, or stealing” and at the same time assume that all
students know exactly what these terms entail. Isn’t gather-
ing analytical information about a book for a paper without
citing the source, ie, Cliffs Notes, considered cheating?

Doesn’t implying that you did a homework assignment
when you did not actually do it count as lying?

We carmot assume everyone is on the same wavelength
regarding the deﬁnition of honorable actions. Perhaps the
members of our community of trust should think about the
possibility of deﬁning the existing standards more speciﬁ-
cally as we ponder including other actions, like assault and
other issues, into the honor system.

Sincerely,
Emily Whitmire ‘O3

Honor needs more exposure

Dear Editor,

I would like to add a suggestion to Ms. Whitrnire’s
insightful letter. I do not recall there being much discus-
sion of the honor system when I arrived as a freshman
other than the session in Lee Chapel where the EC made
its presentation and then led breakout sessions along
with a video. There ought to be a more extensive inves-
tigation of the concept of honor when freshmen arrive.
Perhaps Prof. Sessions’ talk on Honor could be used as
the basis for discussion of the concept among entering
freshmen. In these -discussions, we could bring up those
issues of alcohol abuse, sexual assault, and so on that
students typically do not think of as honor violations.

As Prof. Sessions said, honor requires a community
that sets the standard. It appears that here at W&L we
have failed to set standards of honor as a community
that are in line with moral principles of respect and con-
cern for one another.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ’03

Don’t make choices for others

Dear Editor,

In response to Dirck Brown’s Letter to the Editor on
Nov. 13 regarding “selling donor eggs,” I strongly dis-
agree with Mr. Brown’s viewpoint.

First, Mr. Brown is not a woman. Therefore, he cannot
speak on behalf of women or what a mother will tell a child
about its birth.

Second, isn’t it much more rewarding to know there
are couples who truly want a child at any cost, that
this child—to-be is a truly wanted child that will not be
a “throw away” victim versus all the children who are
“thrown away.”

Our “throw away” children are children of addicts,
abusers, and women and men who do not want to be
parents but yet continue to have many babies. These
people never consider the effect their decisions has on
their children. . . and many of the children die at the
hands of their parents. -

It is my opinion that the couples who ask a woman to
consider donating her eggs desperately want to become
vital, loving parents. A child born to them by donation
would be loved, cared for, educated and taught to be a
humble child and adult.

Yes, it would be great if these couples would adopt the
children that no one wants, but that too is their choice.

Can we really judge and fault these couples for want-
ing a child of their own? I don’t think so. The last time I
looked, my name wasn’t God.

Sincerely,
Barbara E. Gedde, LSW

By Christine Metzger

  TALKback:   What do you want for Christmas?  

 

 

  

  

I ‘ — l . . h j \ I  U‘ _ '  ' . _ .\
i“ “I just want to see my girlfriend. And
get an ‘A’ on my Calc final. . . and all

my other ﬁnals.” —Chad Meredith ‘04

“A vacation.”
-Corinne Nathieu ’O4

“I want a book.”
-Bryant Adams ‘01

“A great LSAT score.”

Annual subsription rate: $30 'B0bbiA1exiS iol

 

 

PAGE 4

  O

@112 itting-tum Elﬂlti

PINIO

DECEMBER 4, 2000
I

Al Gore:
Thief

Imagine for a moment that in a‘
small South American nation, or maybe
a war—tom Balkan province, the ruling
party’s candidate for president has ap-
parently lost to the underdog candi-
date of the opposition party.

Instead of conceding defeat and
allowing a smooth transition of power,
the ruling party devises a recount
strategy whereby it seeks to “dis-
cover” previously uncounted
“votes.” Members of the ruling party
are in charge of this recount, which
only takes place in areas overwhelm-
ingly loyal to this party, and courts
controlled by the ruling party issue
decisions to facilitate further stalling
and prevent the opposition party’s
candidate from being declared the
winner. In addition, mass rallies, pro-
tests, and demonstrations calling for
a new election are orchestrated by
the ruling party’s most inﬂammatory
leaders. If such a complete disregard
for the rule of law were shown by the
party controlling another country, our

government would condemn these ac-
tions as undemocratic and editorials

would defame the nation as a back- ‘

wards banana republic.

Instead, since this is all going on
in the United States, Al Gore, gladly
assisted by the sycophantic media
has turned his personal crusade for
the Presidency into a fight to recog-
nize “the will of the people.” How-
ever, it is this same

are guaranteed no direct suffrage in
presidential

ostensibly all-im— .
portant “will of
the people” that

 

Right side of the Aisle
Brett Kirwan ’04

elections, even
in voting for
electors. Fur-

Gore has done his

best to thwart. The Constitution is
the highest expression of the people’s
will. What Gore has done is to force
a presidential election to be decided
by the courts when Article II, Sec-
tion 2, explicitly states, “Each State
shall appoint, in such manner as the
legislature thereof may direct, a num-
ber of electors . .  Note that citizens

 
   
 
 
  

thermore, the
Twelfth Amendment gives the power
to decide any election disputes to the
Congress. The judicial branch was de-
liberately kept out of elections because
it is an unelected branch and leaders
should be chosen by all the people,
however indirectly.
Gore has also thwarted the will of
the people as expressed by their duly

elected representatives in the Florida
Legislature. The will of the people, i.e.,
Florida law, set the week after the elec-
tion as a deadline for the certiﬁcation
of ballots. This law was illegitimately
and arbitrarily overturned by the
seven Democratically-appointed
judges on the Florida Supreme Court.
What’s more, Gore’s staff and media
attack dogs have destroyed the char-
acter of Secretary of State, Katherine
Harris, who was duly elected in an ex-

’ pression of the people’s will. While

she did no more than her job of en-
forcing election law, Gore’s surrogates

Most W8:L Students
lcolsoi    

 
 
 
 
  
 
 

Sponsored by:

Q

_ Office ofui_-iea|th
': Promotion and

Substance Abuse
Prevention

Based on W&L COREASurve.y- data from..1998, 1.999, 2000

have sought, yet again, to have the
will of the people, as expressed
through Harris, ignored.

Through machination after manipu-
lation, Gore has attempted to steal this
election, and has systematically lied
about his actions as well as those of
the Bush campaign. For example, he as-
serted in both of his recent televised
speeches that there remain ballots
which have not yet been counted. This
is totally untrue. Every single ballot cast
in the state of Florida has been counted
twice, many three or more times. His
ambition has so deluded  that he is
convinced that more people, _some-
where, must have meant to vote for him.
However, the facts are -aligned against
the Vice president. Nationwide exit
polls indicate that approximately 1.5%
of the people who voted on November
7 cast no votes for any presidential
candidate. The number of ballots about
which Gore is whining is within the 1.5-
2.25% range of people who choose any
candidate for president.

Another total fabrication of Gore
is that he is only seeking a ﬁrst and
ﬁnal “complete and accurate” count.
In reality, what Gore is doing is mining
for votes in heavily Democratic coun-
ties by demanding that Democratic
elections ofﬁcials “divine” the intent
of the voter.

This brief colurrm cannot do jus-
tice to the outrage that every Ameri-
can should feel at the underhanded
and dishonest tactics Gore has em-
ployed in his quest for the presidency.
Unchecked by any respect for the rule
of law, he continues to ﬁle lawsuits,
searching for a judge who will appoint
him president. We should be glad that
a man possessed by such a destruc-
tive lust for power totally unchecked
by even a shred of patriotism will not
ever be president.

A message from the Student Judicial Council

In keeping with the honor and traditions set forth over a century
ago, Washington and Lee prides itself on our commitment to student
self—govemance. In coming to W&L, we all recognized our duty as
adults to respect each other and protect the safety of all members of
the Washington and Lee community. The student self—govemance
system helps us achieve this goal. In recent years, driving under the
inﬂuence of alcohol has come to the forefront of concern among many
members of the University. As a result, at the beginning of this school
year, the Student Judicial Council enacted ainew policy designed to
emphasize the seriousness of drunken driving.

In order to promote a safer environment, under the new policy a
student found guilty of driving under the incluence of alcohol by the
Student Judicial Council may be suspended for at least an academic
term. Suspension for an entire term entails the loss of academic credit,
forfeiture of paid tuition and housing costs, and potentially devastat-
ing consequences after graduation. It is important to note that the
Student Judicial Council’s ﬁndings can be independent from a court
of law’s determination of guilt or innocence. While this punishment
may seem harsh, every member of the Washington and Lee commu-
nity is aware that driving under the inﬂuence of alcohol carries much
more serious consequences than any penalty the Student Judicial
Council can impose.

R.L. HESS & BROTHER, INC .
visrr out: cnmsmns sneer  
A r..naaa s1=;uzc'rrora or CHRISTMAS oanarnarwrsz

HEN FOR 2000 - Tl-IE tEX£NE‘sTON, WRIGNIA ORNAMENT
(EXCLUSIVELY AT RJ... HE$S 8: Bro}
boxed and gift wrapped for only $10.00

.0»: Exclusive Vmzt and ‘Wait. Ornaments
boxed and gift wrapped for aniy $10.00

GARLAHDS, Qt-IRi.$TMAS ‘INREATHS, ANGELE, METALLIC TREE HETFING, DOLLS,
MARIAN HEATH GREE'|'§NG CARDS,
BOXED CHRISTMAS CAR D5 STARTTFN-G AT $3.95!
FREE GIFT’ WRAFPIHG, FREE ENGRAVING

@iEE.Jv° 2 :r>.><£a/E’ .4 WEEK
JV°@W ﬁt, 

‘PU ‘.lV£iPICIJ\f”§E.B‘D§
3/OLE L®l/E 196)  ,}fE.li,E;! .

14°! 'W’B$'i£W J\r‘”3':11;.¢$£‘.).;}‘\t" 2.$"1’li§.;§§;‘i!": .?f.E:;‘-¥s’.7It.'.'c;¥*«*”"IL‘,',ffz"'l°’E‘;*.-;:“t;”°’ l-3‘”Z‘ft’ 2“Z%*=?¥.’»:"${‘f?. ("E5-§’vC?,lA-~§‘é§?§»—-513633

I

I

 

 

I

D

 

DECEMBER 4, 2000

W&E

2 Ring-tum lﬂlii

IFE

   

Aspirations of fame, groupies ring band

_i .

   

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive’ Editor

WILL PLAY FOR FOOD. Ringsend, composed of Anthony Allen (‘01), Chris Edwards (‘99), Chris Tully (‘03), Josh Harvey (‘00),
summed up their current status: “We want gigs. We’re cheap. And poor. We like fraternity gigs, we’re fun. We can play covers,
we can work with it.” Additional information on the band, shows and merchandise will soon be available at www.rings-end.com.

' _    fuizy 

R.  Brothers‘  .
Street, canjbcidistin-“"g

 angel wings; ‘ 1 *

circled by a trainand a large golden» T
., s‘l "sled. TIie;r_natie.. Christmas trees in- r
O t side include the “W&L tree,” cov— .
eredlwitli Washington and Lee ‘orna— ‘ . .

I —   blue: and gold ribbons.

L H p an .interesting
 ent of Christmas shopping

"browsjegthrongh¢the ”

’  Grinchbjooks‘

. he rnovie, which is also V. . *
“ being ;shown*at-ithe State. Theater.

.   on Nelson Street

 in_theplholiday. spirit, clecorat».
V  window,with,grinning snow»

iigiiin c1ad_in'a Sarita

_ V ilpapertlaaterns rnake
. estive ‘decorations-A duiingthe Christ-

1nas‘.seasoii asstvell asycar refund.

E  J  treetis home to several
_stores, with excellentideas for ‘

Christmas shopping, one of which

V is lsnndayfs Child; Siinday’s Child
’ has a large collection festive sniffed
animals, including red; sparkling '

I By Alexis Yee—Garcia

FEATURES EDITOR

Recognize this logo? It’s not the
Cadaver Society.

Josh Harvey ‘O0, Chris Edwards
‘98, senior Anthony Allen, and sopho-
more Chris Tully created the symbol
to promote their band, ringsend, and
their upcoming performance tonight
at Java at the GHQ.

“I feel kind of like Spaceballs because
it’s like, ‘ringsend: The t-shirt; ringsend:
The album; ringsend: The show on
Monday night.’ ” Edwards said.

The band got its name from a dock
area in the city of Dublin that is men-
tioned in both James Joyce’s Ulysses
and Diibliners.

“We just thought it was a cool
word,” Edwards said.

The band is currently completing
the recording for their first album, ten-

tatively titled Vertigo, which should
be ﬁnished around mid—February. JC
Kuhl, the saxophonist from Washing-
ton and Lee favorite Agents of Good
Roots, senior trumpet player Scott
Meister, and Charlottesville mandoline
player Rich Walter, ‘98, are all featured
guests on the forthcoming album.

Edwards and Harvey began writ-
ing music together during Harvey’s
freshman year, blending Edwards’
background in blues, folk and classic
rock with Harvey’s jazz and classical
music experience.

“We just kinda added people into
the band, and the rest is history,”
Edwards explained.

Each additional member added a dif-
ferent perspective to the band, whose
songs can be described as “three
minute symphonies.” Tully grew up
listening to punk and ska while Allen
brings straight rock with some recent
jazz experience. Rob Hubbard, UVA
‘O0, recorded the album with the group
and contributed more of a funk back-
ground.

“We try_to combine a lot of those
elements so that we have accessible
music, but something that’s complex
enough that people won’t get tired of
listening to it after the first three times
they hear it,” said Edwards.

Hubbard recorded drums for the al-

bum, but Allen is the drummer for cur-
rent performances since Hubbard is
teaching in Louisa County, Virginia.

Losing members to other comrnit—
ments is common for bands that start
in college, and some members of
ringsend are leaving Lexington in June
to play full time. Despite the uncer-
tainties involved, Edwards is conﬁ-
dent that the band will continue.

“Somewhere, me, Josh and some
other people will be playing together
in a band called ringsend,” he said.

Harvey is arguably the band’s
most distinguished member, having
worked with Agents of Good Roots,
Dave Matthews and Bruce Homsby’s
guitarist, Doug Derryberry. In addi-
tion to ringsend, Harvey is currently
working on a project with Rebecca
Lord, who was on the Real World in
Seattle. Most of the songs for Lord’s
album were written by Chris Keup,
who is producing Vertigo on his la-
bel, Grantham Dispatch.

“I’m ready for the next album, hon-
estly,” said Harvey. “I think it’ll be a
lot better than the first album, much
darker and edgier.”

Ringsend hopes to be able to pro-
duce future albums with Lord’s produc-
ers, John Alagia and Jeff Juliano. In
addition to Lord, Alagia and Juliano

Jen Davis a groupie?”

have produced Vertical Horizon, Dave

 

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Yes, folks, it is holiday time, hearkening images of a
warm hearth, snowball ﬁghts, hot chocolate and being with
loved ones. It is also a time of holiday cheer, and nothing
makes the holidays more enjoyable than a stein of your
favorite brew. This being the case, I have decided to present
my Christmas wish list of fine ales from around the country.

I am of course not asking or encouraging anyone to go
out and purchase me a six—pack, though if you do happen to
be in the Christmas spirit, why not? As a wise person once
said, “you gain more from giving to others than from giving
to yourself;” a lesson best learned around this time of year.
This being said, I present to you the six beers I hope to see
under my tree or in my stocking this December 25.

420 IPA -— The beer to get if you want to taste perfec-
tion. I had my first 420 in over a year during Thanksgiving
Break, and was well rewarded for the wait. Brewed by the
Stone Coast Brewing Co. in Portland, Maine, 420 is the
paradigm for IPAs. A deep, rich gold color, it has'a sweet
malty ﬂavor that combines well with its medium smooth

body. With just the right balance of ﬂavor and kick, 420 is A

the beer to try if you can get it. Greatest beer ever!
Sierra Nevada Bigfoot Al — One of the best barleywine

\ style ales on the market, Sierra Nevada’s Bigfoot is worth

the effort. A rough and tumble, swashbuckling ale, Bigfoot
is not to be taken lightly with an alcohol content of 9.6%. A

gold medal winner at the Great American Beer Festival, it
boasts a dense, fruity bouquet that mingles with a rich thick
body that is accented by a deep, reddish—brown color. This
ain’t your daddy’s barleywine style ale.

Chainberlin Pale Ale — This ale is named after Civil War
general Joshua Lawrence Charnberlin, who led the 20th Maine,
beat back the Confederates at the Battle of Little Roundtop
during Gettysburg, and accepted the South’s surrender at
Appomattox. The beer with his name on it lives up to this
impressive resume. A dry coppery ale, Charnberlin goes well
with pork or pizza and is great for a warm summer day.

Old East India Pale Ale — Brewed by the Sea Dog Brew-
ing Co., Old East India is another ﬁne contribution to the
IPA genre. Fashioned after the famous ales from England
which took on a bold character after surviving the long,
rolling voyage from London to Calcutta in the days of Brit-
ish Empire, Old East India is a striking tawny gold color with
a strong body and mighty kick. This dog’s bark isn’t as bad
as its bite, coming in with an alcohol content of 7.5%.

Frye’s Leap IPA —— Brewed by the Sebago Lake Brewing
Co., Frye’s Leap is named after a young Maine explorer by
the name of Frye. Spurned by the woman he loved, he jumped
to his death off a rock peaknow known as Frye’s Leap. A
ﬁne ale, Frye’s is best when consumed at the brewpub itself
on Congress St. in Portland. With happy hour from 4-7 and
9—close, the price is hard to beat and the beer is worth the
trek. A smooth body with a slightly bitter aftertaste, Frye’s
is another in a long line of A+ India Pale Ales.

Katahdin Red Ale — As the package says, “Step Ahead
with a Red.” A classic Irish style ale, Katahdin is brewed
with a number of roasted specialty malts that give it its
deep ruby—colored hue. Named after the famous mountain
at one end of the Appalaichan Trail, Katahdin is the per-
fect ale for your next steak dinner. Though it only has an
alcohol content of 5_%, you probably do not want to be
drinking it next time you are on the Knife’s Edge.

Well, that is my holiday wish list. Though I won’t be
coming out with my next colurrm for over a month, I en-
courage all of you to try for quality over quantity this
holiday season and maximize your beer experience. Happ
Holidays to all, and to all a good night! -

Matthews, and Agents of Good Roots.
“Our first album is good, but you
always grow out of these artistic phases
and move into the next,” Harvey ex-
plained. “I think we could easily put
out an EP or something like that.”
Though the band has high hopes
for their artistic future, Tully ex-
pressed the band’s more immediate
ambitions with a simple question:
“Do you think this article will make

0  Fun'Foods and Accessories, at ,
' newfstore‘ to. Washington Street, “is I

fully stocked with holiday-irispiried

i  With the sounds of keyboard » 1
music playing in the background, ,7
.. you can browse through velvet}

hotbuneredium  ’

For the aspiring sommeiier on 
your list, Washington Street Pur-
veyorsi has wines and wine acces- V
. sories that wouldicoinplement any i
I cellar, and foods that would .

complement any wine.

day season. Be sure to check out
‘what all of them have to offer.

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

-3‘ vi; i;ms;is:ems.,rog wriom FARM. Nelson Street’s

giias cutesy, of all  all-year” round. .

   

Fl Leringlarz ‘friirfilioll
Sewing Since I 932
‘YR ‘ Hours:

 “'4 11:30 AM— 10:00l’lvl
Monday - Saturday
12:00 PM - 8:00PM

Sunday

Bar Open 'Til 12:00AM
4633612

10% Discount
\ with Student ID
All Day Sunday

and 8-10 pm
Monday - Thursday
Through .
January 31st

 

Reservation
required
for parties
of 6 or more V

 

.4 casual / upscale dining
lunch / dinner

Located In T he Heart Of Downtown Lexington

VISA

37 South Main Street 0 Lexington

  Spring

Break 2001
Student Express

offers

Mexico, Jamaica,
Florida and Texas
with low prices

and

the most reliable air.

wrapped plum pudding mix, kits for ‘
making and painting vanilla Sugar ,
cookies for Hanukkah, and traditional 7

From ornaments to food, many f
Lexington stores are fully prepared 2
A for andhighly anticipating the holi- .

:15

George 8 Sue Ann tliigcr, l’mprietors . 6,

call today for a brochure
and ask how
you can go for FREE!!!

1-800-SURFS-UP or
.www.studentexpress.com

Let Us Make Gift Buying
EASY & “Fllll”!

You Select The

Custom
Made
Gift Baskets

For me...

‘Ar Coffee Lover

* Pasta Lover

‘Ar Spicy Lover

* Chocolate Lover
. Or Any Food Lover

Items’ On Your List!

We Customize, Design & Ship
W Ship Anywhere!

6 East Washington Street

Lexington

540-464-4433 0 877-473-4433

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

DECEMBER 4, 2000

Watson tabbed as ODA’s s

Record-breaking tailback

honored as conference

 

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

Player of the Year Women look to
, overcome losses from
By Jeremy Franklin ,
SPORTS EDITOR   S 
The Washington and Lee

Washington and Lee senior tailback Marc Watson was
named the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Player of
the Year for the 2000 season in voting conducted among

conference coaches.

Watson led the ODAC in all-purpose yards, averag-
ing 199.7 per game, and finished second in the confer-
ence in rushing (132.5 yards per game) and kick return

average (28.8 yards per return).

The tailback led the Generals (5-5, 2-4 ODAC) in sev-
eral statistical categories. Watson rushed 220 times for a
school—record 1,325 yards, also scoring 12 touchdowns
on the ground. In addition, Watson caught 26 passes for

205 yards and another score.

The ODAC Player of the Year also set a school record
with 1,997 all-purpose yards, accounting for more than
half of the Generals’ offensive output. His 382 all-pur-
pose yards in a 45-27 loss to Harnpden—Sydney on Oct. 14
were theqhighest total compiled in NCAA Division III

competition this season.

Watson has one remaining year of eligibility, and will

look to break two more career records in 2001. Although
he already holds the career record for all-purpose yards
with 3,950, he is currently second in rush yards (2,482)

and touchdowns (25).

Ring-tum Phi File Photo

QUITE ELEMENTARY. Senior Marc Watson set
single-season school records for all-purpose
and rush yards in 2000.

 

   

Upcoming events in General athletics..;

Men’s Basketball Men’s Swimming

Dec. 6 Bridgewater 7:00 p.m. Dec. 6 at Virginia Military Institute 6:00 p.m.

Jan. 3 at Guilford 7:00 p.m. Jan. 12 Buffalo State 5:00 p.m.

Jan. 6 Roanoke 7:00 p.m. Jan. 13 Catholic 2:00 p.m.

Jan. 10 at Eastern Mennonite 7:00 p.m.

Jan. 13 at Lynchburg 3:00 p.m. Women’s Swimming

Jan. 14 at Harnpden-Sydney 2:00 p.m. 1 Dec. 5 at Sweet Briar 7:00 p.m.
Jan. 12 Buffalo State 5:00 p.m.

Women’s Basketball Jan. 13 Catholic 2:00 p.m.

Dec. 6, at Randolph-Macon Woman’s 7:00 p.m.

Jan. 5 at Eastern Mennonite 7:00 p.m. Wrestling , .

Jan. 6 at Bridgewater 4:00 p.m. Jan. 6 W&L Quadrangul 11:00 am.

I an. 8 at Virginia Wesleyan 8:00 p.m. J an. 10 Muhlenberg 6:00 p.m.

Jan. 1 1 Randolph-Macon Woman’s 7:00 p.m. Jan. 13 at Swarthmore Invitational 10:00 am

Jan. 13 Emory & Henry 4:00p.m. Jan. 20 W&L Invitational 10:30am.

' J

 
 

Generals split tournament, early conference

W&L sports
roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

With the Haverford Classic, a non-
conference tilt against Shenandoah,
and two Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference games under their belts, the
Washington and Lee women’s bas-
ketball team stands at 2-3, including
a 1-1 markinthe ODAC, on the young
season.

Juniors Jessica Mentz and Megan
Babst have already» emerged as the
team’s statistical leaders, with both
averaging double—doubles through
ﬁve games.’ Mentz has contributed
22.6 points —- including a school-
record 35 against Lesley College -—
and 12.6 rebounds a game, while
Babst has averaged 17.2 points and
10.4 boards.

The Generals opened the season

"$2

K www.Viruinin.org

In-mt ml «‘:v<- vllurtij l-':r.< 1-; .~t akin M.

.v. [H l<‘)< lay 1.

    

photo by Ashley Daly/Staff Photographer

CHARITY STRIPE. Junior Megan Babst shoots a free throw in
the Generals’ 59-49 loss to Lynchburg on Wednesday.

with a 61-57 loss to Coe College in
Haverford, Pa. on Nov. 18. Mentz tal-
lied 28 points and 11 rebounds, and
freshman Sarah Michaels added 13
points. Coe’s Jessica Lincoln scored a
team-high 22 in the victorious effort.

W&L rebounded in strong fash-
ion on Nov. 19 with an 88-40 thrash-
ing of Lesley. In addition to Mentz’s
35, Babst racked up 26 points, 13 re-
bounds, and five blocks, and
Michaels contributed 15 points. ,

‘(J up to ya r butt in pow . 1
e. Skiztll season on over 20

re -1

. Or. for 1-;nowboarders.'Vii'g|_ru'

.tl)out“it. Then get out ttwtrrofanci clear your 

02662444 or www.WintergreenResort.com

women’s track team enters its indoor
season with a large amount of confi-
dence and a promising group of re-
turning athletes. ‘

Head coach John Tucker lost a
number of important athletes from a
successful 1999-2000 season to
graduation. Meredith Mylnar, Nancy‘
Dixon, and team captain Jill Kosch
helped lead the Generals to a first
place finish in the indoor W&L Invi-
tational last season.

“Jill is a key loss,” Tucker said.
“She was such a great leader for the
team, and will be missed.”

Nevertheless, the team will not
have to look far for leadership this
season. Senior Liz Olson and junior
Melissa Palombo, the designated
captains, hope to lead the team to
even more victories than the eight

racked up last year. Olson is a lead-
ing distance runner and Palombo will
compete in hurdling and jumping
events.

Sophomore Burke Duncan returns
to the track, fresh from an impressive
finish in the cross country nationals,
to run the 3000 and 5000 meters this
winter. Senior Kathleen Moroney will
also play a huge role, rumiing middle
distance (800 and 1500 meters) and
competing in a number of relay teams.

The team also expects key contri-
butions from senior Amy Calce, who
broke the school record in the long
jump (16’04.25”) last season and
should improve on a successful carn-
paign last year.

W&L will also gain contributions
from a number of freshmen this sea-
son. The new team members show a
large amount of promise and Tucker

believes that “any contribution from‘

a freshman is always a bonus.”

The wo1nen’s track team shows a
large amount of promise, even after
losing some key competitors. Tucker
has one simple goal for his team: To
be competitive in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

7 .

    

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

Field event. Freshman Lauren Egbert throws the shotput in
the season-opening VMI Invitational on Saturday.

The Generals fell to 1-2 in a non-
conference, 74-72 overtime road loss
to Shenandoah on Wednesday. W&L
overcame a 38-23 halftime deﬁcit and‘
26.9 percent field goal shooting in the
first half to force the extra period.

Babst and Mentz recorded double-
doubles against the Hornets, with the
former notching 27 points and 10 re-
bounds and the latter contributing 13
points and 16 boards.

W&L then dropped its home
opener, also the ODAC season
opener, to Lynchburg by a 59-49 fi-
nal. The Generals turned the ball over
34 times against the Hornets, and
shot just 29.6 percent from the ﬁeld.

Erika Whitten posted 13 points, 16
rebounds, and six steals to lead
Lynchburg. Mentz led the Generals with
13 points and 18 boards, while Babst
added 12 points and 13 rebounds.

The Generals evened up their
ODAC record on Saturday with a 70-
60 victory over Randolph-Macon.
Mentz again led W&L in scoring with

24 points, and the Generals shot 53.2
percent from the field in the win.
Babst added 13 points and 10 re-
bounds, and Michaels tallied 12
points and 10 boards.

W&L resumes its ODAC sched-
ule with a road game against
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Wednesday at 7:00 p.m.

Morse wins again as
Generals place in
Scranton Invitational

Washington and Lee’s wrestling team
placed seventh out of nine teams in the
Scranton Invitational on Saturday in an
event won by Olivet College.

Junior Ezra Morse won all three of
his matches in the 197—pound class to
take home his second individual title
in two meets this season. Morse de-
feated Elizabethtown’s Art Mattes by
a 3-2 decision in the finals of the ﬂight.

Freshman Joe Mueller advanced

Generals open track season

With this year’s squad of sea-
soned veterans, the goal should be
easily attainable.

Men anticipate
successful 2000-01
indoor season

The Washington and Lee men’s
track team enters the 2000 indoor sea-
son with a solid core of veterans and
a thirst for success.

The team only lost four seniors from
last season, when the squad ﬁnished
fourth in the W&L indoor invitational.

The Generals’ sole key loss from
last year is 2000 graduate Hansell

.Pasco, a leading sprinter.

Coach Norris Aldridge’s squad
will look for leadership and consis-
tent performances from senior Marc
Watson, who enters the indoor sea-
son after a terrific year on the grid-
iron, where he was honored as the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Year. _

Watson broke the school record
in the 55—meter dash (6.44 seconds)
last year, and should anchor a num-
ber of relay teams this season.

Senior Jacek Mucha should be a
key performer, running the 400—meter
event and also competing in the high
jump this season. Junior Michael
Hegg hopes to improve on a terrific
sophomore season, when he ﬁnished
third in the 1 l0—meter high hurdles at
the ODAC Championships.

A pair of sophomores should also
contribute greatly this season. David
Hicks will be a tough competitor in
distance events, and classmate Chris
Sullivan will hope to improve in the
long jump.

The W&L men seem poised for a
successful season after losing only
four seniors and returning many of
their top competitors. With the addi-
tion of nine freshmen to the indoor
roster, the team is very well prepared
for the future.

contests

to the 184—pound class quarterﬁnals,
where he was defeated by eventual
individual champion Jason
Schlingman of King’s College.

The Generals wrestle again Jan. 6,
when they host the W&L Quadran-
gular against Davidson, Gettysburg,
and Pensacola Christian.

Generals open track
season across town at
VMI Invitational

The Washington and Lee indoor
track teams opened their 20()0-01 sea-
sons in Saturday’s VMI Invitational.

Junior Ian McAllister placed 13th
in the 200-meter dash and 23rd in the
55—meter event for the men’s team, and
senior Nicola Carpenter contributed a
17th place ﬁnish in the 55-meters and a
19th place showing in the 200-meters.

The Generals will not run'competi—
tively again until the Christopher
Newport Invitational on Jan. 27.

  
   

  
 

ms

scam PRINTING

 

637 Waddell St.

Lexington, Va. 24450

(546) 464-9642

Fax (540)464-6366

.5’/125//3,

SPORTSWEAR

 

 

DECEMBER 4, 2000

@1112 {Ring-tum iﬂlii

SPORTS

 

PAGE 7

 
 

W&L off to rough start on hardwood

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team, suf-
fering from the absence of three starters from last year’s 9-
16 team, has struggled coming out of the gate in 2000-01.

The Generals (0-7, 0-2 Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference) have shot just 39.7 percent from the ﬁeld in
their first seven games, while allowing their opponents
to shoot 49.9 percent. W&L has also compiled a 76-to-
122 assist-to-tumover ratio.

W&L opened the season in the Gettysburg Touma-
ment on Nov. 17-18, dropping games to the host school
(67-46) and the Philadelphia University of Sciences (80-
65). Senior Will Ballard contributed team-highs of nine
points and ﬁve rebounds against Gettysburg, while junior
Bobby Bustamante amassed 17 points and a career-
best six assists in the game against USP.

In the Carnegie Mellon Tournament Nov. 25 and 26,
the Generals fell to 0-4 with losses to Carnegie Mellon
and Thiel College.

After battling back from a 10-point halftime deﬁcit to
take a 53-50 lead over the Tartans with 4:20 remaining in
the game, the Generals allowed a 13-3 Carnegie Mellon
run to close the contest. Ballard led W&L with 13 points,
senior Chad Braley added 12, and sophomore Scott
Hetterman nailed down 10 in the loss.

The game against Thiel was less dramatic, as the Torncats
caught ﬁre ﬁom behind the are early on, drilling seven of their
ﬁrst eight three—point attempts. Thiel took a 53-27 lead into
halftime, which was too much for W&L to overcome.

Braley led the team in scoring with 18 points, while
Bustamante and sophomore Will Cotter reached double
ﬁgures with 14 and 10 respectively.

W&L slid to 0-5 with another nail—biting loss, this time
to Shenandoah in the Generals’ home opener on Wednes-
day. The Hornets’ 57-50 lead with 3:39 left in the second
half vanished thanks to a 9-2 W&L run over the next 2:49.

The Generals had two chances to convert against
Shenandoah. W&L turned the ball over with 38 sec-
onds left and the score tied, allowing what proved to be
the game—winning layup. Braley missed a three—point
attempt at the buzzer as the Generals narrowly missed
their first win of the season.

Photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer
JUMP SHOT. Sophomore Scott Hettermann
shoots over a Randolph-Macon defender in
the Generals’ 61-44 loss on Saturday.

Randolph-Macon pulled out a 61-44 win in the Gener-
als’ ODAC opener on Saturday. Jared Mills fronted the
Yellow Jackets’ effort with 13 points, 11 rebounds, and
seven assists. Hettermann and Bustarnante tallied 13
points apiece for W&L.

Virginia Wesleyan utilized a 23-5 run early in the second
half to extend a four-point lead to a 61-39 advantage en
route to a 78-49 victory over the Generals on Sunday. The
Blue Marlins shot over 65 percent from the ﬁeld in the sec-
ond half against W&L, and 54 percent for the game.

Hettermann tallied career highs of 21 points and 10 re-
bounds against Virginia Wesleyan (4-2, 2-1 ODAC). Cotter
added 12 points and four assists in the losing effort.

The Generals will continue to pursue their first win of
the season this Wednesday with a 7:00 p.m. home con-
test against Bridgewater.

J The sports staff of the Phi
’ wishes the W&L
community a happy and

, festive holiday season.

National success

W&L sophomore

runs in NCAA

meet in Spokane
By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee sophomore

’ cross country runner Burke Duncan

competed in the NCAA Division III
National Cross Country Champion-
ships Nov. 18 in Spokane, Wash.

With a 121st—p1ace ﬁnish, in the
middle of an elite ﬁeld of 244 runners
from around the nation, Duncan has
posted the most successful individual
effort for Generals’ cross country in
recent memory.

In fact, she is the first W&L
women’s cross country runner to
qualify for nationals since Josephine
Schaeffer won the regional meet and
placed ninth at the national competi-
tion in 1995. When asked about her
success this season, Duncan remains
extremely modest.

“The team and I are lucky to have
such a wonderful, friendly coach,”
Duncan said of Emily Pulsifer.

Duncan also credits success to the
team’s “coming together as a group
this year despite the constant pres-
sure to win.”

Duncan qualiﬁed for the NCAA
national meet after placing seventh
out of 138 competitors at the NCAA
South/Southeast Regional held on
Nov. 11 in Newport News, Va. Hav-
ing already turned in a second place

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
SWEEPING THE NATION. W&L
sophomore Burke Duncan
competed in the NCAA
national meet on Nov. 18.

at the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Championships, Duncan
crossed the tape with a season-best
time of 18:45 at the regional meet.

Looking towards next year,
Duncan admitted that “it will be difﬁ-
cult, losing four seniors and our
coach.” However, she remains conﬁ-
dentin the team’s ability to succeed.
Individually, her goals include a re-
turn trip to the national meet.

With several accomplishments
under her belt, this young runner re-
turns next year as one of the bright
stars of a talented women’s cross
country squad that will look to build
off the success of back-to-back
ODAC championships.

Swim teams resume season

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The men’s swimming team im-
proved to 3-1 on the season over the
past three weeks, while the women’s
swimming team slid to 0-4 before col-
lecting its first win of the season
against Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College.

The men’s team knocked off

V Swartlirnore 131-73 on Nov. 18. Fresh-

man Eric Ritter took first place in the
200-meter backstroke and the 200-meter
freestyle. Senior Colin Hayes took ﬁrst
place in the 200-meter butterﬂy, and
sophomore Brett Burns took first in the
50-meter freestyle event.

Senior Mike Miraglia, freshman
Paul Laraia and sophomore Patrick
Frankfort earned first-place ﬁnishes
in the 100-meter freestyle, 500-meter
freestyle, and 1000—meter freestyle,
respectively.

The men Suffered their ﬁrst loss of the
season against Gettysburg, a 111-93 de-
cision on Nov. 19. Ritter and Hayes both
set pool records in the contest: Hayes in
the 100meterbutterﬂy vvithatimeof52.53
seconds, and Ritter in the 100—rneter back-
stroke at 53.92.

The Generals proceeded to ﬁnish
8th of 13 teams at the Franklin and
Marshall Invitational over the week-
end. Sophomore Patrick Frankfort
helped the squad to ﬁve of their first-
day points by placing 12th in the 400-
meter individual medley.

 

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer

CHALK UP THE W. The W&L women’s team swam its way to a
142-57 win over Randolph-Macon Woman’s College on
Wednesday, the Generals’ ﬁrst victory of the year.

Against Swarthmore, the women
lost by an overall score of 127-75.
Sophomore Blair Huffman won the
200-meter butterﬂy and earned second
place in the 200-meter breaststroke.

The Generals lost their next con-
test against Gettysburg by a margin
of 142-55. Sophomore Kelli Austin
won first place in the 100 and 200-
meter freestyle events. Huffman ﬁn-
ished second in the 400-meter indi-
vidual medley.

The women collected their ﬁrst
win of the year in a home conference
meet against Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College by a score of 142-
57. Generals took ﬁrst place in 10 of

 
 

$ TOYOTA

  

Most everyone has them...no one likes them. (Toyota Echo can help.) Echo gets up to 38 miles per gallon'..that limits your spending
on gasoline. (Good start.) Echo has an amazing amount of interior room...seating for 5...so it will hold a lot of something, like up to
4 paying passengers on Holiday trips home —- positive cash flow to further limit your spending. (Another plus.) Now you try one.
(Hints: It’s Toyota...very dependable. And its an Echo, starting around $13,500 well equipped.) So the next time your spending limits

come up for discussion, you’ll be all set with a positive suggestion...A visit to your nearby Toyota dealer.

"EPA estimate 31/38 4- door, 4-speed automatic. Even better with 5-speed manual.

America's

Student

Beat the

pet

*Passes must be

validated within 6

months from date
of purchase.

the 11 events.

Leading W&L were junior Laura
Ingoldsby, who won first place in the
200 and 500-meter freestyle events,
and Huffman tallied two ﬁrst-place
ﬁnishes in the 400-meter individual
medley and 200-meter backstroke.

The Generals then traveled to
Pennsylvania for the Franklin and
Marshall Invitational meet over the
weekend. On Friday, the first of the
two-day competition, the team ﬁn-
ished last in the 12-team event.

The men will return to action
against Virginia Military Institute on
Dec. 6, and the women will next meet
Sweet Briar on Dec. 5.

Leader
TraveL

 

 

’ 

 

Get your rail pass at
S 2000 prices
and travel in

2001

RAIL EUROPE ‘

33

GRCIJP

 ‘_

1 -800—2COUNCl L

counci|travel.com

 

 

 

PAGE 8

Because you may need

something besides gas
to get your Yule Log In

@112 iliing-tum lﬂlii

LASTWORD

 

' DECEMBER 4, 2000 ’

 

Ness puts the

By S irew Agnu

I LOVE UBLIC URINALS

On Thursday, Nov. 17, Washington and Lee declared a
war on alcohol, drugs, and gratuitous nudity in a stunning
twist-tum of events at the Sesquicentennial Celebration
of the Sacred and Royal Council for Putting Down of the
Smack on Lewd, Obnoxious, and Blatantly Unclothed Behav-
ior. The council met as part of a university eﬁort to curb the
amount of inebriating beverages consumed on campus.

The Council gathered secretly at the University Alumni
Ski Resort high in the Swiss Alps to discuss what mea-
sures needed to be taken in order to stem the veritable
ﬂood of alcohol that has been ﬂowing onto campus for
nearly a ﬁfth of a millennium.

The Council held its meetings huddled around a roaring
ﬁreplace, in deliberations that lasted well into the wee hours
of the morning without so much as a single cup of hot
cocoa to give them solace. After several weeks of consid-
eration, the committee ﬁnally came to a controversial deci-
sion to re-establish Prohibition on the Washington and Lee
University campus, after a vote of lFor and 12 Against. Mem-
ber of the Class of ’2l, Ernest J. McParteePouper used a little-
known corollary in University Charter to pass the measure.

Corollary 7.24 in Article IV, Section H, Subsection 2
states: “Any concerned bureaucratic gentleman in the em-
ployment of the W&L Administration is hereby empow-
ered to enact any policy in opposition to the will of vast

‘ ‘smac

majority of student body, alumni, and the will of the
various purveyors of alcoholic beverages including,
but not mutually exclusive to: the
Mafia, the honorable Alumni J ack
Daniels and Jim Beam, Jimmy
Madison’s Mash Malt Liquor, the Ap-
palachian Ghetto Superstars, and all
of the Ireland, in the furthering of
Gentlemanly Behavior and/or To pro-
tect the Proud and Honorable public
image of the University.”

Thus, McParteePouper was em-
powered to re—institute Prohibition
on campus as part of the new cam-
pus initiative entitled “Operation
Drunk—No-More.” McParteePouper
then declared Marshall Law and in a
unanimous, unilateral vote, was ap-
pointed Supreme Dru g Czar For
Life of the W&L Campus. His first
official act was to unfreeze Elliot
N ess from Science Department’s
Cryogenics Lab and appoint him to head up his Alco-
hol Gestapo in conjunction with the area Po-Po.

Commissioner Ness has promised to clean up the cam-
pus, if it is the last thing he ever does. In a bold declara-
tion on Thursday, Nov. 26, he promised to end the “Orgy
of Alcohol, Free—love, and Rock and Roll” that the W&L

 

students have lived in for the past 200 years: “The time
has come to draw a line that no boozy dare stagger
across. I will not rest until I see
this campus as dry as Strom
Thurmand’s Depends . . . only the
exact opposite. The times and tac-
tics may have changed since I took
on Capone, but Elliot Ness has
changed, too. I have upgraded the
campus security with the latest in
Democratic—Expression Oppression
Technologies including Alabarnians
with fire—houses, German
pararnilitaries with attack dogs, Tom
Arnold, and the LPGA Chapter of the
Dykes with Bikes motorcycle gang.”

The first major task in the “Op-
eration Drunk—No-More” was to
invade, harass, and bully the W&L
fraternal orders of manly fun on
campus during their Christmas Ju-
bilees. Using a system of surprise
raids, paid informants, and W&L’s surveillance satel-
lite, Ness organized the single largest mass offensive
against American excess and debauchery since the
“Tet Offensive.” Ness led his crack squad of Storm
Troopers through the houses with reckless abandon.
Doors were broken, windows were opened, pantries

  
   

PUBLIC SERVICE
ANNOUNCEMENT

THRICE-CONVICTED SEXUAL PREDA-
TOR MATTHEW MCDERMOTT HAS
BEEN RELEASED FROM THE GOOCH
COUNTY MAXIMUM SECURITY PENI-
TENTIARY LAST MONTH AND HAS BEEN
ACCEPTED TO ATTEND WASHINTON 8:
LEE FOR THE WINTER TERM OF 2001.
WARNING: ALTHOUGH PSYCHIA-
TRISTS HAVE GIVEN MCDERMOTT A
CLEAN SLATE OF MENTAL HEALTH, AU-
THORITIES STILL RECOMMEND THAT
SMALL ANIMALS AND WRESTLERS
AVOID CONTACT wITH HIM.

  

cOFFEEpeO

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

 

p|eM

uslcmore

HQ

 

  
       
     
     
       
         

 

 

Bela l-"leek,
I I         and MANY,’

  '5 8 ‘Tape: 
1? South Main Street, iLex,ing[tim_.
. , 454..3a4§ A  I  
S taper: it} am - 8 pm Manda}-Saturdays —
12-ﬁpmﬁundaygy t_ 

   wideeRange omfterdaiblecbs 
   p      _’. . .
$9.99-$12.99

Beb Marley, U2, Elton Jenn,

Lynyrd Skynyrd, Altman Bzress .
James Brown. Marvin Gaye,

i_ ’ Grateful "Dread, liar: Eﬁerﬂson, 

  

Enable‘ Bras;  -

MANY Mme:

   

P

 a  a la 

v

6/. Gfzfen/as A

’7was lie niyfl 5e/Dre freaf and/a//lfrouyf /[e scfao/s,
Cxams were /afen anJpeopﬁz cramming fzfe /aofs.

zﬂfen up from /[e @-Jfa///[ere arose sucf a c/al/er,
.71 was lie firs] semes/er’s /e/I/overs a//yainy sp/a/ler. y
,7rozen freaaf o/J meals, ana/some green cficfen,

.7//ra//inf away as /[e c/ocf Jone 5e lie-fin’.

you’re in my war/Jnaw,



” down with campus prohibition‘

were raided, and freshmen were subjected to humiliat-
ing, full-body cavity searches. N ess called the evening
a success with four half—empty beer bottles, a 24-pack
of warm Natty Light and a bottle of Bacardi seized and
over 127 freshmen probed by the steady hands of Tom
Arnold.

Ness has promised to step up his efforts to reduce the Q
illegal, immoral, and illegitimate imbibing of inebriating in-
toxicants after he recovers from his alliteration overdose.
As for McParteePouper, he has taken up residency in the
Delta House and is currently engaged in playing a thor-
oughly wholesome Four—square tournament in prepara-
tion for the s**t storm he is preparing to reign down on
the Greek system.

MORAL BILEMMA
OE ‘HHS WEEK .

Is it better to give
or receive in prison?

752:: up from 15¢ mess, came a /'of_fy, 51'; syuzlsﬁ; '
7 ueri/a5/e smor_yas5orJ of a s/range cficfen ¢/12:5:
“Jfa, £0, [0, ” 1'1 sat?/wi/5 ajiyy/_‘y]1'j_y[e
D

97.: 1'1 ficfet/up ils /ara/wi/5 a cry anal a wry]/e.

“(Sal me up now cause you ’// see me ayazh,

  
 

 1'/’s

a W//0/,m-,.f. _

 



18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

3

S1
.5

it

5

wt.“

 

 FHE RLACE FOR FOOD _AI_\Ll2 FUN !

FOR YouR RLEASuRE B. J.   ’S HAS
ADDED A LINE or FINE CIGARS. 
ASHTON , ARTuRo FUENTE, C.A.O., 
AND ELAVDRED CIGARS.  

...__.._..
  I‘: .4.‘

 HUNGRY 2REMEMaER ouR KITCHEN

 IS OPEN....LATE !

1 6 oz. T~BoNE STEAK W/BAKED
RDTATD AND MIxED GREEN SA LAD

 

l

 

