 

PAGE 2

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

NEWS

OCTOBER 30, 2000‘

THE VVORLD

 

Child soldiers lynched

in Sri Lanka

Ethnic differences led to more vio-
lence in Sri Lanka where 25 former
child soldiers of the Liberation Tigers
of Tamil Eelam, aged 14 to 25, were
lynched by a mob outside of a center
dedicated to rehabilitating them.

The LTTE has been accused by
several human rights groups of using
young children as soldiers.

When captured, these children are
sent to centers like the one where the
lynchings took place, where they are
given psychological counseling. With
Sri Lanka struggling to overcome the
rebel LTTE forces in the north, sym-
pathy for the child soldiers’ deaths is
not widespread.

The child soldiers had captured a
Sinhalese officer and were demand-
ing to be set free, when the 3000

 
   

.1.
1-, .. ...

Cy‘ -
gut

THIS WEEK

strong mob broke into the center, and
beat 25 of the 44 inmates to death.

The 17-year-old conﬂict, which
has claimed over 60,000 lives rages
between the Tamil mi 

«

s OCTOBER 30, 2000

C112 ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂht

PINK)

PAGE 3

 FOX announcers

prove average in

Subway Series

to mention the next six postseasons.
But while seeing the Yanks win an—
other World Series with their typical
slew of overpaid veterans was quite
depressing, the Fox broadcasters
turned out a solid performance from

I will readily admit that I was none
too pleased when Major League Base-
ball and FOX announced their six—year
postseason deal during the opening
round of this year’s playoffs.

After all, FOX’s exclusive coverage

of the entire postseason for the next six the booth.

,; years will prevent baseball-tuned ears Maybe I’ve learned to expect less
from listening to the best television an— f1omJoe Buck, T1mMcCarver, andBob
nouncers in the business. NBC’s Bob Brenly,butthey actually calledadecent
Costas and Joe _ Series. So why
Morgan — Th6  have they been

:» proclaimed Worldwide Leader in Sports.

_. dreading television coverage of this year’s

«es .3,

‘fraction of their own which you give

who also calls
regular season
and playoff games for ESPN — will no
longer grace October with their presence,
along with a plethora of intelligent and
entertaining announcers from the self-

. , ' ' their base-
Jeremy S' Franklm 04 kiowledge?
A complaint from many baseball
fans and non-baseball fans alike is that
the game is simply not enjoyable to
watch on TV. Although the problem is
multifaceted, the quality of the announc-
ing is a prominent factor in this dilemma
McCarver and Brenly, two fonner
catchers who might have taken too

That having been said, I was really

World Series, also televised on Fox, not

Letters to the Editor

ent ideas of what their profession
“earns.” And, of course, unless one
works from the premise that all men
have equal talents at birth, then it
cannot be said that the lawyer
“earns” 10 times the wages of a jani-
tor, as this division of labor is natu-
ral and predestined. And of equal im-
portance, in egalitarian social envi-
ronments defeat the claim that the
rich have worked harder for their
property.

Indeed, it makes little sense that
a society wishing to avert tyranny
would allow its better minds to vir-
tually set their own salaries at rates
at such great inequality from those
whose only “fault” is their social
and/or psychological state of birth.
This applies for simple income in-
equality, but moreover in a modern
capitalist society, most wealth is
unearned. Bill Gates does not work
ten million times harder than the av-
erage American.

Thus, the accumulation of private
property is determined mostly by
relative, worldly conditions. For
what other reason should it be pro-
tected? Not for liberty’s sake.

The philosophy of private prop-
erty is but a spiritual enslavement to
the rich and a material enslavement
to the poor. It seeks to deny that mo-
rality has any scope in private eco-
nornic affairs, assuring the tempted
that it is “rational” for them to accu-
mulate property as an end ir1 itself.

Some create apologies based on
their proclaimed good intentions, but
a camel still does not ﬁt through the

Student discusses
the immorality of
private property

Dear Editor,
“It is not with your own wealth that
you give alms to the poor, but with a

back; for you are usurping for your-
self something meant for the common
good of all. The earth is for everyone,
not only for the rich.”—St. Ambrose.

In the 23 October edition of the
Ring—tum Phi, Brett Kirwan wrote that
“(a government) that spends most of
its energy redistributing wealth, is ter-
ribly immoral,” that “the income tax is
. . . stealing.” These bold declarations
necessarily imply that the income that
one has a natural and inalienable right
to the property that he or she has
amassed. So, does there exist a right to
private property that is in itself, at least
conceptually, a moral good, into which
no human power can justify interven-
tion?

All, except staunch materialists,
would agree that a right or truth is
universal by nature. It can be equally
applied to all temporal environments.
But the process of “earning” property
is, in fact, fostered by very relative cir-
cumstances. Those qualities that af-
fect the cause of “success” include
personal ambition, ability, geography,
competition, and, perhaps above all,
chance. Young doctors exploring work
opportunities will ﬁnd that Russia and
the United States have vastly differ-

.V11‘;":“;*"3‘:"5:-i*E~‘.’7.“‘Z'?-L*'§°.§"Z“’;*"f3‘.*:i"N.-“.€J‘.«. v.T~f*~‘ °- '- r-5:‘ ,‘?

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬁhi

Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes

Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Bryan Early
Heather McDonald
Michael Crittenden
Max Smith

Jessica Jones

Lisa Lin

Colin Mitchell
Mary Guy

Martha Edwards
Monica Schoenthaler
Ginger Phillips
Paul Seifert

Executive Editors

News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Contributing Editors

Photo Editor
Photographers

Graphics/Cartoonist
Online Editor
Business Manager

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring—tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 pm. on Friday to appear
in the following weeks edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves
the right to edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

iE@....7==Tl ,

By Christine Metzger

As journalists we are often faced with difﬁ-
cult decisions when covering emotional or per-
sonal issues that have the potential of affect-
ing people’s lives. These decisions are never
easy, and usually come at times when we least
expect them. Last weekend was one of those
times. Sufﬁce it to say that no one on the staff of
the Ring—tum Phi ever expected, or wanted, to
have to cover or write about the deaths of fellow
students. Not one person in this school would
want to have to decide how to deal with the is-
sues that arose in the breaking of that story: what
information to publish, whom to talk to, whether
ornot to talk to friends of those involved, what
pictures to run. Those are not easy decisions to
make, but as journalists, it is our responsibility to
make those decisions, whether we want to or not.

Though we are just a small campus newspa-
per, the published word can have a monumen-
tal effect on people, especially when dealing

 

“If I have someplace to go, I’m
going to be Lady Guinevere.”

many foul balls to the facemask, ﬁnally
proved their knowledge of the sport —-
certainly not to the extent of Morgan or
ESPN ’s Peter Garnrnons, but good
enough to preserve the ﬂow of the game.
Buck’s father, Jack, was a Hall of
Fame baseball broadcaster who actu-
ally worked with McCarver on CBS
broadcasts through the early 1990s.
After several years of sub—par play-
by-play, the team’s anchor seems to

be coming into his own. Costas, Mor-
gan, Rick Sutcliffe, Buck Martinez, and
Jon Miller will be missed next
postseason. But the confusion of the
divisional series television schedule,
divided among three networks since its
inception in 1995, won’t be.

As for Fox’s broadcasting trio, let’s
hope that this year’s perfonnance from
the booth was not just a Subway Se-
ries—inspired ﬂuke.

eye of a needle. Egoism is not free-
dom. The system teaches some to
treat other human beings as means, not
ends, to their financial goals, subvert-
ing these lives, to whatever degree, to
dependency on those with property
who proﬁt from them by usurping the
fruits of their labor and returning to
them less than was taken through wage
compensation. Forced servitude to
another man’s selﬁsh desires and eco-
nomic insecurity is not freedom.

The Earth was given to all, not just
to those who can best manage eco-
nomic production and deﬁnitely not
to those concerned with attaining the
pride and idolatry of wealth. It is com-
mon property, its only landlord is our
Heavenly Father, who made it. It ex-
ists to serve our basic material needs,
not for the rich nations to hoard them
from the poor, nor for them to be used
as “capital” to create new, baseless
wealth on credit.

One can claim no exclusive right
to all that which is not needed, that is
to say, to that which is surplus wealth
above and beyond wh.at is necessary
to sustain life.

Surplus wealth belongs to those
without necessary wealth, which is
the morality of loving thy neighbor
as thyself. Our collective lack of real-
ization and action in this regard
should bestow unto each of us the
greatest humility.

Private property, not the redistri-
bution of it, is our greatest evil, an
immeasurable moral burden.
Sincerely,

Thomas Smitherman ‘04

——— STAFF EDITORIAL

with an emotion—ﬁlled issue such as that which
occurred last weekend. For this reason, we took
great care and precaution in producing last week’s
story on the accident, more so than any other ar-
ticle we have published in the last four years. With
the invariable rumors and gossip that quickly
spread last Sunday, it was that much more impor-
tant to produce a story that presented the facts
accurately, fairly and objectively. Though it is al-
most impossible to stay objective when fellow stu-
dents, friends and peers are involved, those of us
here at the Phi try our hardest to make difﬁcult
decisions like those that had to be made last week,
with the interest of the reader in mind. We are not
perfect, nor do we claim to be, but we do try to do
our best in situations that are neither enviable nor
wished for. Ifwe make a mistake, or you think we
made a mistake, let us know, because we serve the
student body of this campus. Without comment
and criticism we can never get better.

—Ashley Daly ‘04

“I don’t know yet. I’m going to
Wal-Mart today to find a costume.”

Student clarifies
water pipe inci-
dent

Dear Editor,

After reading the article about my
involvement in the ﬂooding of Chi Psi,
I have to admit that I was quite upset.
The article was biased because my side
of the story had been neglected. This
hastiness is understandable though,
given all the events that took place last
weekend. I have now been given the
chance to explain the incident.

Obviously, there is no need to de-
scribe what happened in too great
detail because that has already been
done. All that needs to be said,
though, was that it was an accident.
Last week’s article made it seem as if I
had maliciously pulled the pipe down
with the intent of setting the sprinkler
system off. I assure you that this is far
from true. I used the pipe as a support
so I would not fall, not realizing how
fragile it was or the fact that it was the
pipe to the sprinkler system. It acci-
dentally came unattached and minutes
later the sprinkler went off.

I want to apologize to everyone in-
volved, especially the brothers of Chi
Psi. It was an accident and I take full
responsibility for it. Also, for future
reference, my last name is spelled
Pierce, not Pearce. I know many people
may have lost sleep over this griev-
ous error.

Sincerely,
Reid Pierce ‘04

    

   
 

“I want to be mad Ophelia from

Hamlet, and pass out dead ﬂowers

to people while reciting her speech.”
-Rachael Mallis ‘04

“I’m going to be a W&L
student."
-Sean Devlin ‘04

-Zach Bedard ‘04

 

 

PAGE 4

Ellie ilting-tum iﬂlit

PINION

OCTOBER 30, 2000

 

Bush: Dignity
and progress

On Election Day, we will have an opportunity to choose
between two candidates with very different visions for
America. Governor George W. Bush has presented a clear
vision over the past two years of where he wants to lead
our nation. He believes that we, the people, instead of
the federal government, are the most qualiﬁed to make
decisions about our finances, our children’s education,
and our healthcare.

Bush understands from his past six years as the Gov-
ernor of Texas, the second largest state in the nation,
that the federal government has not been successful
in solving many of the problems facing society, and
that it has in fact been a hindrance to the innovations
that he and many of his fellow Republican Governors
have attempted.

Unlike some hard—right conservatives, however,
Bush doesn’t merely want to reduce government, leav-
ing problems un-

 

Franklin Roosevelt, John Kennedy, and Lyndon Johnson
that America has turned to in times of social transforrna—
tion and international challenges.

Gore and Liebennan are New Democrats who believe ir1
opportunity for all, responsibility from all, and community
of all. Their economic plan provides resources for strength-
ening Social Security and Medicare, making America debt
free by 2012, targeted tax relief to help Americans care for
their families and save for their future, expanding access to
affordable health care coverage, bringing about revolu-
tionary change in education and training, cleaning up the
environment, and ensuring that we continue to have the
strongest national defense’ in the world.

During the Clinton—Gore administration the economy
created 22 million new jobs. Unemployment and inﬂation
are at record lows, and government deficits have been
turned into surpluses. Gore and Lieberman have the expe-
rience necessary to continue America’s prosperity. Per-
haps most importantly, Gore and Lieberman recognize that
everyone is not sharing in our prosperity and the economy

leader in the White House of whom all Americans can

be proud.
It would be nice if we could contrast this clear vision
for the future with Al Gore’s vision. The Vice President,
however, lacks a clear and consistent

solved. He is a “com-
passionate conserva-
tive,” who wants to en-

Young Repuljicans
Sam langholz ’02

agenda. Is he the populist firebrand that
will fight for the little guy against the evils
of big business, or a “New Democrat” sup-

courage innovation at
the state and federal levels to come up with exciting
ways to improve our education and healthcare sys-
tems so that “no child is left behind.”

He wants to reduce taxes for all people, not just
targeted groups, so that average Americans can im-
prove the quality of life for their families.

Bush also acknowledges the important role that
Federal Government should play in ensuring our na-
tional defense.

He will work to improve morale in the military,
return our armed forces to the strength that they
were during the Persian Gulf War, and rebuild our
strenuous relations with many of allies, which have
deteriorated over the past eight years.

Furthermore, Bush will restore honor and dignity
to the White House. He understands that we need a

  

BUS

CHEN

porting businesses to help the economy?

Is he a campaign finance reform crusader or the au-
thor of that phrase “no controlling legal authority” in
describing while it was alright to fundraise in the White
House?

Not only can Gore not make up his mind about his vi-
sion for America, but he has a habit for exaggeration and
downright lies. Remember the inventor of the Internet?
How can we entrust the highest office in the land to some-
one without the moral core and backbone .to lead beyond
polls and focus groups?

The choice is clear in my mind, and I encourage you to
join me casting my vote next week for Governor George W.
Bush, the next President of the United States.

(And if you’re a true-blue liberal that just can’t bring
yourself to vote Republican, vote for Ralph Nader - at least
he has some principles.)

 

RETIREMENT ,._rii5ugii_AN't'E:' MUTUAL rurros ;trtuStr‘3s‘Eiriv,_i_,tE's ' rurrrorv FINANEING

why you didn’t

One of the fastest ways to build a retirement nest egg
is through tax-deferred Supplemental Retirement
Annuities (SRAs) from TlAA-C REF. 

With funds automatically deducted from your paycheck,
you can easily build income to supplement your pension
and Social Security.

And your contributions to SRAs grow undiminished

by taxes until you withdraw the funds.* Add to that
TlAA-CREF's solid history of investment performance,
bolstered by our commitment to keeping expenses low,
and you have more money working for you.

So why wait? Let us help you build a comfortable retire-
ment today with tax-deferred

r

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

INVEST AS LITTLE AS _
h $2: a month _ SRAs. We think you will find it
t r°:gy,:?, ‘yllgﬁwatlc rewarding in the years to come.

Deferring taxes with
TIAA-CREF can be so
rewarding, you’ll wonder

do it sooner.

IT'S EASY TO SAVE MDHE THROUGH
THE POWER OF TAX lJEFEHHAl

$102,068
$67,514

   

& Tax—deferred savings after taxes
I After tax savings

$41,232

$31,933 I l

$13,052
$11,609

    

IOYEARS 20 YEARS 30 YEARS

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month in a
tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28% tax
bracket shows better growth than the same net amount put
into a savings account. Total returns and principal value of
investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield may vary. The chart
above is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not
reflect actual pcrfonnance, or predict future results, of any
TIAA-CREF account, or reﬂect expenses.

A A

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it."‘

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa-cref.org

© 2000 TIAA-C REF 08/03

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them care-
fully before you invest. 1. You may be able to invest up to the IRS maximum of $10,500 per year. To receive a personalized calculation of your
maximum contribution, call TIAA-C REF at I 800 842-2776. 0 TlAA—C REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA
Real Estate variable annuities. 0 Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual
funds and tuition savings agreements. 0 TIAA and TlAA-CREF life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. 0 TIAA-CREF Trust
Company, FSB provides trust services. 0 Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.

 
 

must be made to work for all Americans. They support
lifelong learning for all, new opportunities for families to
save, build ﬁnancial assets, and become homeowners. To
accomplish this, they plan to boost investment in technol-
ogy, pay down the national debt, increase the percentage
of Americans owning capital assets, and double the per-
centage of minority families owning homes.

Lastly, Gore and Lieberman want to strengthen
America’s families by recruiting one million mentors for
disadvantaged children without two parents and pro-
vide affordable after—school programs at every public
school. In addition to putting Medicare in a “lock box,”
their plan guarantees Social Security beneﬁts for future
retirees for at least the next half century and creates tax-
free savings accounts en-
abling Americans to build re-
tirement nest eggs.

Gore and Lieberman rep-
resent the kind of leadership
and vision needed for an
America with new challenges. Now more than ever, we
need experience in the White House to deal with the
rapid pace of the economic, social, and political changes
taking place, and to hold true to America’s enduring val-
ues of opportunity, responsibility, and community.

Vote Gore for
‘ ‘a new politics”

Voting for Al Gore and Joe Lieberman on Nov. 7 means
choosing “a new politics for a new America.” Changes are
occurring all across our land that require a new type of
leadership and great vision. An information, technology-
driven economy is changing the way Americans work. Our
population is becoming more diverse, more educated, more
suburban, older, and more centrist. Those
with education and skills are prospering, and
those without are at risk of being left behind.
The aging of our society is creating tensions
over resources for health care and retirement.
Younger Americans are increasingly more
skeptical about politics and government. Our environment
demands more attention than it ever has. America is facing
a series of international challenges based on regional insta-
bility, ethnic rivalries, and terrorism. Gore and Lieberman
represent the progressive American political tradition of

Young Democrats
Justin Arnold ’02

 

1eberrnan

r\n.".'-‘  2(l(II1Trgcrr>y:‘ DCNIQIX vrrsa-Ir.-5.06! tron-3.1.1.2739

 

 

WIN A TRIP
FOR TWO To

AFRICA s

This year the cost of MTV's
’The Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

~¢
&“’§s-«.9
€
%.-»0‘‘

Enter for a chance to win at your
local Council Travel office or of
councilfrovel.com

    

 

‘rli' In-<3. '_‘r:i;i,l

 

GOURMET SPECIALTIES
STUDENT CARE PACKAGES
CREATIVE GIFT BASKETS
LAUGHTER & SMILES

  /<
. iﬁaeaa §~‘r$~@d:$””-‘. A
.:%..aaeseve;$.essiess 

6600

Fun & Festive Gifts!
6 East Washirigton Street, Lexington
Next 777 Sroneu/a/ljackron flame

This trip to Africa is provided by

Z i
., . 1
("Ya
_/ =-

/
‘bvoﬂdwidc vacnuanu
for‘I8 to 35 ymr aids

virgin
atlan tic
No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..

between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go
to counciItraveI.com. Sweepstakes ends 10/15/00.

Ix.)

540 464 4433
Order Toll Free: 877 473 4433
We Ship Anywhere!

www.fur1foodsforyou.com

   

Travel ..___

 

CounCiltraveI.com
1 -800—2COUNCIL

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
    
    
    

OCTOBER 30, 2000

W&E

2 King-tunt {Hlii

IFE

 

PAGE 5

Sorority houses

ington and Lee community,” Elrod said.

dedicated

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Sorority women were not the only ones dining in the
five new houses this Saturday. Men, women, parents and
freshmen joined the sorority women for lunch and tours of
the houses as a part of Washington and Lee’s formal dedi-
cation.

For many, the dedication of the sorority houses marked
a high point in the progress that women have made since
they were first admitted to W&L in 1985. The houses are
somewhat symbolic of the university’s comniittment to more
equal treatment of all of its students. University President
John Elrod emphasized how important women have be-
come in their involvement on campus.

“Women are ever—deepening their presence in the Wash-

During the formal ceremony that preceded lunch and tours,
Elrod and several W&L trustees and representatives presented
speeches and dedications. Elrod presented two plaques to
the classes of 1974 and 1975 for their generous contributions
to the sorority project. The classes gave money for the con-
struction of the houses as part of their 25th reunion gifts.
Vernon Holleman, one of the trustees who was instrumental
in the inception and progress of the sorority housing project,
will also have a plaque at the sorority house site.
Following the speeches, the first and only female mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees formally presented the houses
to senior Elizabeth Holleman, who accepted the houses on
the behalf of W&L’s Panhellenic Council.
_ “The Greek system has always been strong on this cam-
,pus. The addition of the houses will only help to make this
system thrive for years to come,” Holleman said.

I Following the speeches and presentation, students,
trustees, faculty, parents and others attending the event
ate lunch in one of the five houses and toured the others.

Those who viewed the houses were impressed with the
decor and furniture of the houses. .

Four years ago, the ﬁve sororities began the sorority house

project. Construction of the houses began last year and 20
‘women moved into each house this fall for the first time.
Saturday was the first public opening of the houses and the
‘only opportunity for freshman women to view the interior of
the houses before formal sorority recruitment.
i “I am very glad that the university invited all members
of the W&L community to the dedication on Saturday,”
freshman Blair Oakley said. “The houses are so beautiful,
and it would be a shame for everyone not to have the chance
_to see them.”

V photo by Mary Guy/Staff Pliotogrzipher
IT’s OFFICIAL. Senior Elizabeth Holleman, President of the Panhellenic Council, addresses the

audience at Saturday morning’s sorority house dedication.

 

photo by May Guy/Staff Photographer
OVER THE RIVER AND THROUGH THE woons: To the sorority houses we go. Students, faculty, trustees and visitors cross the “Millenium Bridge”

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

£.e::ingI:cm, VA 2:34:50

33 183. Mata $2.
(548) ~$63~598&

 

 

LEXENGYON "  ~ A   ‘  9 
I WELCOME
SRQ? $33 ?A§"§’A€i‘t’A£.LQ ~
PARENTS
mazes I ‘ I  ’ ‘  
$§”tO@$, Clmﬁing
and ﬁt€)%3$I}l'i83
MAW STREET  T
 S.  street in Historic Downtown
465-5004
U331]
Gilt Baskets
Tailgate picnics
llmported Cheeses

llllistinctive Catering
lparfy Refreshments

Boar’s Head premium Delicatessen

BRING IN THIS AD AND RECEIVE

 . V A.  g g 110% OFFANYPURCHASE

  
        
         
        
     
   
   
     
 
 
       
   
   

 

 

 

‘I11, 1_3(T_>ril.""‘ if  

%

no 

   

4464*-r5002

 

I21   Sheaﬁ

wen Diei'i-Sari IO-R-5:30

 
 
  

*

  
 
 

 

"PAGE 6

S

Cilia ﬁling-tum iﬂlit

OCTOBER 30, 2000

PORTS

W&L volleyball takes court again after tragic loss

By Jeremy Franklin

t SPORTS EDITOR ‘

K The Washington and Lee volleyball team made its
1 toughest move of the season Wednesday night: Stepping
out on the court against Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence rival Roanoke.
The match for the Generals was the first since a single-
vehicle accident claimed the life of freshman outside hitter
3 Kristin Shelton the previous weekend. Head coach Bryan
, Snyder had nothing but admiration for his team’s ability
‘ to walk back out on the court.
“It took a lot of heart and courage to step back out on
the court tonight,” Snyder said. “That’s something that,

unless you’ve gone through it, you don’t know how to »

deal with.”

On the court, the Maroons handed the Generals their
first homecourt ODAC loss since 1994 by a 15-4, 15-7, 15-
6 score. Roanoke (16—9, 6-2 ODAC) had not defeated W&L
since 1991.

“I told the players before the match, that whoever wins
this game, it’s going to be hard,” Roanoke head coach
Blair Calvert said. “This is a huge win for us. Now we
know we can beat some of the better teams.”

Junior Lindsay Ruckert led the Generals with 10 kills
and nine digs, junior Leslie Fischbeck totaled nine kills
and seven blocks, and senior Pam Saulsbury recorded a

teain-high 13 assists.

“We certainly wanted to win, but it wasn’t about wins
and losses tonight,” Snyder said. “We blocked extremely
well, and that’s something we worked on in practice. We
didn’t play poorly, but we didn’t play well enough to win.”

W&L plays in Averett tourney

The Generals traveled to Danville for the Averett Col-
lege Invitational over the weekend, winning one of four
matches in non-conference competition.

The host team handed W&L a 15-6, 15- 10, 15-8 loss in
the opening round Friday. Fischbeck recorded nine kills
and four blocks in the match, and sophomore Stacey
Kimmel ﬁnished with nine digs and four kills.

W&L played three matches Saturday, recording a win
over Roanoke and losses to Savannah A&D and
Maiyville. In the Generals’ 15-8, 12-15, 14-16, 15-2, 15-6
win over the Maroons, Ruckert tallied 18 kills, 13 digs, and
eight blocks, Kimmel recorded a team—high 26 digs, and
senior Katherine Kline contributed 26 assists.

Ruckert led W&L with 14 kills and eight digs Savannah
-A&D’s 15-6, 15-5, 15-11 win over the Generals, and fresh-
man Mary—Wommack Barton finished with 13 digs. In
Maryville’s 15-12, 15-7, 15-12 victory against W&L, junior
Lee Charbonnet recorded seven kills and four blocks.

The Generals (18-9, 8-2) will return to action in the
ODAC Tournament Friday at Lynchburg.

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

The skies were cloudy Saturday

_ morning, but the mission was clear for
the Washington and
1Lee cross country
teams as they looked to
capture the 2000 Old
;»Dominion Athletic Con-
A ference championships.

By the morning’s

‘end, the women’s cross

’country team had won
its second consecutive
ODAC title. Meanwhile,
despite an inj ury—riddled
season, the men’s squad
boasted a respectable p
ﬁfth—p1ace ﬁnish.

The Generals ﬁnished
with 45 points, nine
points ahead of second-
place Lynchburg and 13 ahead of third-
place Roanoke. Four General runners
ﬁnished in the top 1 1 overall.

Bridgewater hands W&L

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Bridgewater amassed 649 total
yards and held Washington and Lee
off the board for over 42 minutes to
close out a 38-10 victory Saturday af-
temoon.

W&L senior tailback Marc Watson
rushed 26 times for 116 yards and a
touchdown for the Generals (5-3, 2-3
Old Dominion Athletic Conference),
and junior Jeff Bahl tallied eight tack-
les and a pair of fumble recoveries.

“They’re a team that’s really on the
rise, and the future for them is bright,”
W&L head coach Frank Miriello' said
of the Eagles (7-1, 3-1). “You just try to
focus on your techniques, and do what

you do best. You hope that’s enough,

  

    

  

‘- =uex~aeive; w:._).f’  if 
 ;?¥~**“‘3*‘7§’ .

   . éaxlcfi i§Ix1:i:.v£.x-r::I3_. xnmme

Sophomore Burke Duncan and se-
nior Jessica Pariillo paced the Generals
with second and third place ﬁnishes,
respectively. Duncan crossed the tape
with atime of 19:26, while Parrillo came

in 10 seconds later at 19:36.
Other notable performances were
turned in by senior Kathleen Moroney,

but it obviously wasn’t for us.”

The Generals jumped out to a 3-0
lead on a career-long 43-yard ﬁeld
goal by junior Brad Wiginton with 8:36
left in the first quarter. After Watson
pulled W&L to a 12-10 deﬁcit with
12: 13 remaining in the half, the Eagles’
defense would keep the Generals out
of the end zone.

W&L also lost a pair of sophomore
classmates, quarterback Bobby
Littlehale and tight end Davis White,
to concussions. Neither is expected
to play this Saturday against Emory

& Henry (7- 1, 4-1), putting the Gener- .

als in an uncomfortable position.
“You’ve just gottoﬁndarallying point,”

Miiiello said. “We’ve always played very

well on Parents’ Weekend, so we’ve hop-

ing a little bit of that magic returns.

   

who finished in eighth place with a time
of 20:45, and junior Gretchen Tencza,
who placed 11th at 20:57.

“Burke Duncan did an amazing
job,” women’s head coach Emily

  

photo by my ames

WE HAVE LIFTOFF. The Old Dominion Athletic Conference women’s cross country
runners begin their meet Saturday at W&L, which the Generals won.

Pulsifer said of her top runner’s per-
formance. “She’s coming off an injury,
so to be able to race fast is really

 
 

anothe setack

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer

PoisEo To’ STRIKE. Leslie Fischbeck, Stacey Kimmel, and Pam Saulsbury wait for a serve in the
Generals’ match against Roanoke as head coach Bryan Snyder looks on from the bench.

good.”

Pulsifer was also pleased with the
performance of the third-place runner.

“Jessica Parrillo has done amazing
things all year, and has improved so

‘ much since last season,”
Pulsifer said.

The coach, in her third
season with the team, also
expressed admiration at
her squad’s chemistry.

“They’ve done a
great job of staying a
team all year,” Pulsifer
said. “They’re a tight
group, (which) shows
when they can score 45
points.”

the W&L men’s cross
country team placed ﬁfth
in a ﬁeld of seven. Eam-
ing highest honors for
the men, freshman Andy Schorr fin-
ished seventh with a time of 28:25.
Junior Ken Jackinan, with a time of

   

.XCCU IVC .

Ring-tum Phi File Photo

PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT. Junior placekicker Brad Wiginton
booted a career-long 43-yarder Saturday against Bridgewater.

“We’ve been here before, and now
we’ve got to regroup again against a very

   

V  West  avtmm.
[ ‘ ._ . (:0C:(2i$ffi1itEZ?£' «of M;ai.n. .8-1:: I

 

  :34:-(1.)I’i.~£;§§3:?y"-$i§.’E.il.Il§T§3I.§E!$§¥i, .1.‘ T§..-3z= .:n<:.:>.:n;tt $1.-¥I'3C.I5ﬂ-}”ﬁ
 V 7.5»‘}'.i.f*.__, tﬂiaetertaarail an-c_t  \W#K:i:lt:t‘}l!I1£fh.£i.

 

 
  
        
 
    

good football team. It’s a big challenge,
but I’m sure our players will respond.”

With a score of 105, A

28:53, claimed 1 1th place in the meet.
On a squad where seven runners
were sidelined with injury this season,
the Generals’ strong performance was
a testament to their dedication, ac-
cording to their leading runner.

“(The team’s performance) was
sub—par,” Schorr said. “But consider-
ing that we have been gaining new
players just about every week practi-
cally, we have been shaping up into
more of a team and are looking good
for next year.”

Both the men and women’s squads
eamed All-ODAC honors. For the
women, Duncan and Parrillo were se-
lected as first—team All-ODAC, while
Moroney and Tencza were named
second-team All-ODAC. For the men,
Schorr and J ackrnan received ﬁrst and
second-team Commendations, re-
spectively.

The Generals’ next challenge pre-
sents itself in the form of the NCAA
Division III South/Southeast Re-
gional on November 1 1.

I Women’s cross country team wins ODAC championship

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
OPEN FIELD. Freshman Andy
Schorr led the Generals with
a seventh-place overall finish
in the. 2000 ODAC meet.

Subscribe to thePhi!

If you would like to keep up with
events at Washington and Lee,
subscribe to W&L’s campus
newspaper. Get the news first from
the Phi, published since 1897. Obtain a
weekly subscription in one easy step.
"Send a $30 check to:
Ring-tum Phi
University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

637 Waddell St.

Lexington, Va. 24450

(s4o) 464-9042

Fax (540)464-6360

SPORTSWEAR

 

‘X

i

 

OCTOBER 30, 2000

S

@112 itling-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

 

Women’s soccer falls in ODAC ﬁnals

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team hoped to use its strong
regular season finish in order to cap-
ture the school’s first Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship
Saturday afternoon.

However, Lynchburg eliminated
W&L in a heartbreaking finals match
that featured three overtime periods.

On Tuesday, W&L began the difﬁ-
cult march to the finals with a 2-1,
double-overtime victory over Eastern
Mennonite. Senior Shana Levine scored
her first goal of the season at the 48:40
mark to give the Generals a 1-0 lead.

After Ellie Lind scored for Eastern

'Mennonite, the teams remained dead-

locked until junior midfielder Kate
Bidwell won it for the Generals on an

‘assist from sophomore Ruth—Hill

iYielding in the second OT.

In W&L’s semiﬁnal match on Fri-
day, the Generals handed Randolph-
Macon a convincing 4-1 defeat. After
Allison Picarde of Randolph—Macon
scored first, the Generals took con-
trol. Freshman Heather Coleman
scored two goals and classmate
Fontaine Marcoux chipped in a goal

Ring-nun Phi File Photo

SOCCER rs LIFE. Senior Sam Garbisch moves the ball against an
Eastern Mennonite defender in this Sept. 16 ﬁle photo.

and an assist. '

Junior midfielder Drew Powers
scored the game-winner in the 38th
minute on an assist from Levine.

The win against Randolph—Macon

sent the Generals to their first touma-
ment final since 1990, when that squad
lost to Roanoke on penalty kicks af-
ter four scoreless overtime periods.
A similar situation almost played

E1)1T0R’s NOTE: The women’s ﬁeld hockey team was incorrectly referred to as a club team in
the Oct. 23 issue. The team, in developmental varsity status, will be featured next week.

 

PART TIME & SEASONAL

‘ASSISTANT’ S

NEEDED TO WORK
IN AN EXCITING, FAST PACED,
AND FUN ENVIRONMENT.

APPLY IN PERSON AT "THE VICTORIAN PARLOUR"
13 SOUTH MAIN STREET LEXINGTON VA.

 

H Gift Boutguc

   

Football
Sat. November 4 Emory & Henry 1200 p.m.

out pln Saturday Sfternoon fwheg Mews and women’s Cross Country

Was in ton an ee ace

Lyrrehbrgrrgr Freshman forward Sat. November 11 at NCAA Regionals TBA
Susannah Hewlett capitalized on a Golf V

Jenny Thomas P355 ‘O 81“ W&L 3 October 3o31 at Torn O’Bryant Invite TBA
quick 1-0 lead at the 6:38 mark.

After Lynchburg evened the score, Men’s Soccer '

both teams battled for 94 seoreless mrrr_ October 31-November 4 ODAC Tournament TBA
utes. In the third overtime period, Volleyball

Heather Kirby won the game for November 3_4 ODAC Tournament TBA
Lynchburg and ended any hopes of an _

NCAA playoff berth for the Generals. Wresﬂmg

Kirby Seored on a deﬂecfron, which got November 12 at VMI Keydet Invitational 10:00 a.m.

Upcoming events in General athletics...

PAGE 7

past senior goalkeeper Lauren Harris.

Despite this twist of fate, Harris
was phenomenal in goal, saving 20
shots for the Generals.

“Lauren was amazing,” Levine said Standings ODAC Overall
of her teammate. “She played great Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
over the entire season and especially Emory & Henry 4 1 179 148 7 1 257 172
this past week.” Bridgewater 3 1 167 59 7 1 284 99

For her excellent play, Hams was Catholic 3 1 159 94 5 3 224 175
hamﬁd to the all-t011m3mCI1t team. Washington & Lee 2 3 103 142 5 3 207 192
310112 Whh I-eVh1€ and BidW€11- Hampden-Sydney 2 3 143 129 3 5 21 1 216

“I1 Was 3 great Way to end the 8621- Rando|ph-Macon 1 3 78 114 2 6 126 229
son,” Levine added. “The team really Guﬂford 1 4 66 209 1 7 79 340

came together and it was great for the
senior class to achieve its goal of
reaching the ﬁnal.”

' The Generals finished the season
with arecord of 12-6, with an 8-3 show-
ing in the ODAC.

ODAC Football Update

October 28 Results
Bridgewater 38, W&L 10
Catholic 50, -Emory & Henry 40
Ferrum 49, Guilford 0
Davidson 36, Hampden-Sydney 17 Hampden-Sydney at Maryville

November 4 Games

Emory & Henry at W&L
Bridgewater at Randolph-Macon
Guilford at Catholic

Swim teams anticipate strong seasons

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s swimming team has
begun its 2000-01 season in hopes of improving its 8-4
record from last season.

The Generals will look to seniors Rob Little, Mike Miraglia,
and Colin Hayes for leadership. Other returning letter win-

ners include junior Rick Black and sophomores Brett Burns, 1

Zach Fake, Austin Fisher, Patrick Frankfort, and Kirk Vogel.

“They’re a great bunch to have back,” head coach Andrew
Pulsifer said. “Hopefully, tl1ey’ll do good things this year.”

Hayes was named an All-American last year, making
1999-2000 the 26th consecutive year that W&L has boasted
a player with that honor. ,

However, the Generals are still a young team, with six
sophomores and ﬁve freshmen on their roster.

"Ihese guys are capable of big improvements,” Pulsifer said

Pulsifer, in his fourth season with the team, makes the point
clear: he wants the Generals to focus on individual irnprove-
ment. He would like to send as many people as possible to
NCAA competition at the end of the season, and is hoping to
take a relay team in addition to individual swimmers.

W&L has started off with wins against Sewanee and
Transylvania, and Pulsifer has had the chance to see the contri-
butions of his newcomers, particularly freshman Paul LaRaia.

“He’ll do great in many things,” Pulsifer said of LaRaia,
who won three events against Transylvania.

Meanwhile, the women’s swimming team enters a new sea-
son after earning a school record 10 wins a year ago.

“We graduated three good seniors last year,” head

  

Rmg-tum Phi File Photo
KICKING OFF. Swimmers from W&L and
Sewanee prepare for a backstroke event.

coach Kiki Jacobs Moore said of Lauren Beckenhauer,
Lez”ael Haynes, and Lauren McKeever.

The team is also losing three juniors who are going
abroad in the winter.

Despite the losses, the Generals have much about which
to be excited. W&L will lose only one senior at the end of
the season, improving the outlook for future growth.

“We have a lot of different people contributing, as op-
posed to a few stars,” Jacobs Moore said. The coach
describes her junior and sophomore swimmers as strong,
with a freshman group possessing deﬁnite potential.

Key contributors this season will include junior Katie
Kennedy and sophomores Blair Huffman and Kelli Aus-
tin. Junior Maggie Fagan and senior Allison Harvey pro-
vide leadership for the team as captains.

“It’s a team that has a good time together,” Jacobs
Moore said of the overall team attitude.

Academic Couple Seeks Egg Donor

21 -28
Right candidate will be compensated with approximately $7500.

Outstanding SATslacademics, good temperament, dark hairleyes, even-featured, 5’6”
or taller, and lean build.
Please describe motivation along with several [returnable] photos to:
P.O. Box 22
West Kingston, RI 02892

All serious replies will be answered.

 

Aluine

102 W. Washington Street

open. t is sun.

 

463-53 

etmia

 
 -  aw .ﬂ.ay=-«Bans «-   Bouts
- 190%  weal 
- Fa.nc_y Cummergund and The Sets
1 w  :BJ.t:s, Ties, Dog Collars -— Embassy Boxem

maems WEEKEND SPECIAL
S rrs ma SPORTCQATS 20%. off

VISA, MASTERKA RB, ﬁi‘i’?l"I.iI}ENT QPMXWEACCEPTEB
If at ~1a:oI:} a.m..

ﬁlm‘ ‘Willltl 1' 3

rarnllhénd

 1- 1

".35 5 

 

 

   
       

     

 

§ § 
m - . .
3 : is 112 rtltng-tum Elﬂlrt a
N4 3 2
3 e 3
9'» 3
PAGE 8 8 E 3 ocroman 30, 2000 ,
l N 6 :-
O
Illdﬁ €Ild€IltS ' T119 other W hltﬁ meat
. .~
Q
Nothing, except for sexual scandal, makes an election more interesting than The Libertarian Party
s:t:1itE:d;:::: ::::::::‘::”;:°::ea%:::::°:::::d  Libertarian my   a 
The roblerrl: with third parties lies in the eneral o ulace’: ignorancbzleexf their chance at the White House this year if anybody
existlence and a ath towards su ortin gthem Igispobvious in most elections knew what the Libertarian Party wee The Libere e
th t th d.pd my .11 nave pp. . g. t ' . V tin bl. th t tarian Party advocates a socially liberal and ﬁs-
d a ,:Se Canalll avstwi be it:   0 ioilvllgcte :1 0th glpu tuin a cally conservative agenda, the end of the war on
,;;::‘: t::.:e: tli:lLa.ls: W,,::;“ W3: 0;:  an-gs  
su ort—is grovidin free ublicit to these arties in the ho es of issin Most Americans would identify with this ape yr
fggh M P h b i . p th ()1, P P p g proach if they knew any thing about it. If one
0 C an W 0 6 eepmg em 0Wn' asked a typical passerby on the street who Harry Browne is, the person
would most likely guess Charlie Brown’s cousin. Actually, he is the Libertar-
V ian nominee for president. The Libertarian Party has not given up hope for
The Green Party the 2000 election; they optimistically project that if things go well, the I
Ralph ader was the obvious choice for the Green Libertarians could capture 1 percent of the popular vote.
Party candidacy due to his inability to recognize the ‘
futility of his own campaigns. Nader has been a life-
long crusader; when he was in grade school he sued The Reform Party '
hls teacherfortsexual misconduct after she paddled ’ The Retelm patty has been left ln Shambles
mm for cntrcizrng the bloated bureaucracy of the De- due to lntrabarty lraetlenallsm Stlrred up by the
partment of Education. When he started law school, eleetlen of Navy SEAL_tumed_wtestler_tumed
he Sued me Depanmeet ef Redundaney Department politician Jessie Ventura to the Minnesota gov-
ft Hmgaagld for not Pregldmg en‘t’1“$hl‘:1nVerS1tf3"}tI):i:1S 3 ernorship. After a well-publicized power ‘ i
egen eensumera Veeatew 015 ewn er 3’ struggle between Ventura andbillionaire—tumed— G  ’ ’ '
mg am“? the advent of the Standard eutemebﬂe eeat kook-tumed-politician Ross Perot, the feud culminated in the party splitting
belts’ texle Waste 5ta“daId59 and ma-kmg msmleuens into two separate Reform Parties. One faction nominated famous xenophobe-
mandatory on-all boxes of toothpicks. The Green Party advocates environmental tumed_rlgbt_wlng_pundlt_tumcd_politician Pat Buchanan. The other faction’ .  . .. . .
PT°t°Ct10“s “Diver 331 health Cams 1m1VeY 53-1 drug Cafe» umversal Welfare:  calling itself the Natural Law Party, nominated some physics professor, James ~
eduelatieni anI;1‘l1niVerSa11et‘}3l°n°mi"1r“in~ lilteeugtl: the  been eirmelzed Hagelin. The two pseudo-parties have been too busy sueing each other and Q
or s ogan, “ e p contro e peop e popu ation, ave your s spaye or neu— wblnlng to worry about actually getting their nemlnees eleeted_
tered,” Green Party leaders defended their position by promptly getting stoned. M 7‘7LAE 
Many Democrats are criticizing the Green Party for putting Gore’s presidential _ 3
hopes into jeopardy, but Republicans respond that Gore doesn’t need any help ' The Nat‘-"'3' “Law Party To Vote your consclence (Repubhcan) 01‘
ttin him lfbeat ' th ‘d tial . Who the he cares?
3° g 5° °“ “‘ 6 pres‘ °” W to vote your pocketbook (Democrat)?
A TY Picm. DAY L, Mo,»->»u~ swvawrheuee  L t.
if L  feed,” elem I ‘<"’°”t” “’"° "me He A/agony Evae
 A ‘ An: ANBI 4A3” S
.r man You Dltgw SA: D rr wfl
l-A‘T5““*f  . A (=K‘E.ET*NC.» l A -
. . E *
TKA 9:1: 024. 1‘
4 ‘ J’ t ‘ 
0 x l 0 1  I ~
every man day ' -
8:30 p. m. to mzdnzght
I
I

 

. ‘I1
18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464 -4483

THE PLACE FOR FOOD _A_l__\l_’t_)_ FUN !
‘WIS wEE1< AT93’. S? 3‘    
MONDAY~MoNr>AY NIGHT FOOTBALL PARTY J AVA    T   ‘
TuESDAY~8~13ALL TOURNEY or cHAMr>IoNS C 0 F F E E P e 0 P ' g M U S I C m 0 V e t
WEDNESDAY-9~r3ALL TOURNEY or CHAMPIONS T H E   E"! Q
T?tuRSDAY~ KARAOKE

1-'RIDAY~ D. J. JOETHEJOHNNY COCHRAN  
0,-. D, J‘_ -5 2000 Toyota 4 Runner
SA TLLRDAY-FRA NKIE JACKSON “TH E 6 di§:f,f:,?;,:‘;f“j§§,f,l:?,;cks,
  excellent condition. l

Great for college student. $26,000

SUNDAY~NeFL SUNDAY TICKET~ANY call: (540)997-0766
 _    » A or cell: (540)460-5910. t~ ,

1 OM THE BROILER

1 6 oz. T~BONE STEAK w/3A1<Eo
POTATO AND MIXED GREEN SALAD
$ 6.50

 

 

 

 

