 

)4

    

.'/is fr *2
(R.  . »

. '?i5‘L

\..
.\,>

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 
    

. A ':'~:, ‘-./A ::»w::o

SE? 2 IZUULE

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

Cadets step off

VMI parade commemorates
eight-score years of fraternal
felicity

By Matthew McDerrnott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Corp of Cadets of the Virginia Military Institute pa-
raded in honor of the common history and traditions their
college shares with the University of Washington and Lee.
W&L students, alumni, faculty, and administration attended
the event, held on Friday at the parade grounds in front of
the Institute.

The cadets affixed bayonets to their riﬂes, a privilege
only afforded to combat tested infantry units. VMI cadets
have participated in every American conﬂict since the Mexi-
can War, with at one time an entire class ﬁghting as a unit.

“We take this opportunity to thank our W&L neighbors
for all the generations of friendship past,” said the an-
nouncer, “and in a fervent wish for a continuation of our
warm relationship in the future.”

Also mentioned was the “friendly but passionate” ri-
valry that hasexisted during the schools’, 161 years of,
coexistance, which still allows the schools “banding to-
gether as educated and honorable ladies and gentlemen.”

In past years students at what was then called Washing-
ton College donned uniforms to drill alongside VMI cadets,
who in turn attended the College for classes not offered at
the Institute.

Students at both schools served alongside each other
under the command of Robert E. Lee to ﬁght for Virginia
during the Civil War.

This parade was the first to be partly reviewed by a W&L
student, Chairman of the Executive Comrnitte John Comly.
VMI cadets parade 21 times a semester. .

“Sometimes its hard to keep all of these parades straight,”
admits firstclassman (senior) Matthew Frye, who with his
classmates drills several times a day.

This is the most recent parade in honor of Washington
and Lee since the one held for the reunion of the “war
classes,” those comprised of students who attended W&L
andVMIfrom 1941 to 1945.

Washington and Lee officials were eager to recognize
their ties with the Institute and pleased to have been recog-
nized by it.

The W&L community later joined VMI cadets, faculty,
and administration at a reception held in Moody Hall.

“It’s ﬂattering,” said Lawrence Betch, Dean of Washing-
ton and Lee College, “We’re glad to be here.”

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

RIGHT, LEFT, RIGHT: The VMI colorguard parades as part of the march and review that recently
honored Washington and Lee University. Over one thousand cadets, to the music of pipes, horns,
and drums preformed an exact military drill as spectators (photo above left) gaze on.

Colleges oversee the rats and the frats

By Matthew McDermott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Virginia Military Institute’s recent
Full Retreat Parade honored the historical
connections that the academy shares with
neighboring Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. Though numerous parallels between
the two institutions were drawn that day,
one similarity went unmentioned: the anti-
hazing policies being seperately pursued
by the new VMI Commandant and W&L’s
Interfratemity Council.

Hazing is more obvious at VMI, where
the freshmen, or rats, are traditionally sub-
ject to an intense period of initiation.

“I believe in the passage of rights,” says
Colonel Eric Hutchings, who assumed the
office of Commandant in early July, “but
[the situation] had become cancerous.”

Hutchings, recently Deputy Com-
mander of the Army Rangers, graduated
from VMI in 1997 as a Distinguished Mili-
tary Student. He has also attended the
United States AImy’s Command and Gen-
eral Staff College and holds two masters
degrees in military arts and sciences. A
qualified SCUBA diver and parachutist,

he has served in the army for 22 years.

His decorations include the Defense Meri-~

torious Service Medal. .

As Commandant, Hutchings functions
as a dean of students, overseeing the dis-
cipline and training of VMI’s student
body.

“I’m the surrogate father,” he explains.
“Parents. . . expect me to look after their
kids.”

Since his arrival, Hutchings has made
substantial changes to the Blue Book,
VMI’s code of student conduct. He has
focused on cadet appearance, resurrected
the tradition of marching to meals, and
increased participation at parades. It is
his protection of the rats, however, that
has drawn the most vocal criticism from
the upper classes.

Hutchings has, for example, ended the
shaving of rats’ heads. He has forbidden
the practice of bedding them in their gym
clothes, swathing them in blankets, and
commanding them to sleep while at atten-
tion.

Some students feel Hutchings is med-
dling with the school’s traditions.

“It’s hard to change something when

you’ve been brought up with it,”
said ‘fiistciassmeii (senior) Jim
Bourie.

His classmate Andrew Modisett
agrees, “You’ve got this constant
grudge—match going on. We want
to run the show, the Commandant
wants to limit us.”

Many seniors, however, agree
with Hutchings reforms.

“The ratline is more the way it
used to be,” said firstclassman Mat-
thew Frye. “I’ve talked to alumni
and faculty. . . and they don’t re-
member it being so rough. We’re
heading in the right direction.”

“We’re going to let the commo-
tion pass,” said first—class president
Charles Bunting. “Basically, we are
working for the same ends.”

Bunting heads the student gov-
ernment, which oversees student
conduct and decides whether to rec-
ommend disciplinary action to the
administration.

Regardless of the complaints of

SEE ‘HAZE’ ON PAGE 2

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

New club
sets SAIL

The Student Association
for International
Learning prepares for
first year

By Joel Pepera

STA FF WRITER

The Student Association for International
Learning, a new umbrella organization of

_ Washington and Lee’s international clubs,

\

seeks to use the collective resources of its
member clubs to “address intercultural and
international issues on campus,” according
to organizer Agnes Flak.

In its first year of existence at W&L,
SAIL combines new service committees with
established international organizations on
campus in an effort to draw further support
for international issues. This coalition hopes
to be especially helpful in the fundraising;
SAIL will petition the Executive Committee
on behalf of its committees.

“SAIL is the key organization in bringing
the international and globalizing trend to
W&L,” said acting secretary, Shiazi Niazi.

SAIL is comprised of ﬁve individual or-
ganizations, each its own separate entity:
Study Abroad, Model United Nations, the
International Student Alliance, the Interna-
tional Development and Relief Group, and the
Student Activities Committee (fomerly the
International Club).

While SAIL will only meet monthly, each
individual group will hold regular meetings.

The Study Abroad committee provides
information on the option of studying in a
foreign nation for students of all majors. It
plans to make .the study abroad option more
accessible to the general student population
by addressing issues ofapproachability and
fair credit transfer.

A pre-existing campus organization but
new SAIL member, Model United Nations
exposes participants to international issues
and conduct through the simulation of the
United Nations. The group plans to attend
conferences at Harvard University and the
University of Pennsylvania, as well as to de-
velop its own Security Council at Washing-
ton and Lee.

The International Student Alliance serves
the unique needs of international students
on campus. The committee will address ev-
erything from student VISA issues to obtain-
ing inexpensive flights home to dealing with
“culture shock.” The alliance is dedicated to
serving any and all of the needs of the inter-
national students at W&L.

The International Development and Re-
lief Group directs its attention to the aid and
relief of those in crisises around the globe.
Through fundraising and awareness, it looks
to improve the plight of those in need through-
out the world.

The Student Activities Committee is in-
volved in initiating and planning a variety of
activities with an international emphasis. It
aims to unite students of all cultures in vari-
ous events.

niversity officials assess impact and safety of parking garage

.\'_$

By Katie Howell

STA FF WRITER

The first full week of student parking in

the new parking garage has lead to cases
of reckless driving and improper traffic
ﬂow, according to Security Director Mike
_Young.
 Despite initial problems, officials feel
that the garage, located behind Doremus
Gymnasium, has resulted in fewer parking
violations on the streets of Lexington this
year than in previous years. ‘

In a public campus announcement last
:I'hursday, Young said, “I have been receiv-
ing daily reports of dangerous driving in
the new parking garage. I am aware that
irnany drivers have not been practicing ba-

sic safety precautions while driving in this fa-
cility.”

Young said that although the security of-
fice has not posted a speed limit, students and
visitors should drive at 10 miles per hour to
maintain the safest possible driving standards.
“People are driving too fast and not being care-
ful,” he said. “Students should slow things
down a bit and be more patient and alert, par-
ticularly around turns.”

University Security also encourages stu-
dents to pay attention to the arrows and traf-
fic ﬂow patterns posted within the garage. The
arrows will soon be painted a darker color to
be more visible to drivers.

“The garage is a nice facility,” Young said.
“It is well-lit and will have a good traffic pat-
tern once students get adjusted.”

Students are especially having difficulty
adjusting to the double-headed arrows located
at each level of the ramp, which some have
called confusing. Some think that they add to
the improper traffic ﬂow as students are unfa-
miliar with this unusual setup.

“I think going both ways is dangerous,”
said sophomore Gretchen Tenzca.

Drivers parking in the garage should ex-
pect more confusion from the garage for the
next two months while the University Physi-
cal Plant works on Phase III of the Campus
Utility Routing Project, which will completely
close off Denny Circle to traffic.

Assistant Director of the Physical Plant
Scott Rhodes said, “starting Monday the
Denny Circle entrance, which is currently the
only entrance, will be closed off. We will open

one lane for entering the garage and one lane
for exiting both at the current Nelson Street
exit and the current fourth level exit.”

Despite the garage’s problems, security
officials feel that the garage has greatly re-
lieved the strain the University previously
had accommodating all of the cars that stu-
dents, faculty, and visitors parked on carn-
pus. Prior to the construction of the garage
last spring, the location of the current garage
was a two—level, 180 space parking lot. The
new garage can hold 609 cars.

“We knew we needed at least 100 more
parking spots for the sororities,” said Young,
“and we knew that the University did not have
adequate space for the overall parking situa-
tion, so the University decided to build the
garage.

Now commuters can come to campus with-
out worrying about having to ﬁght for a park-
ing space.”

According to Trafﬁc Coordinator Thomas
“Baner” Bane, the space that the parking ga-
rage provides has decreased the number of
parking citations given both in the City of
Lexington and in unauthorized University
parking areas.

Bane said, “The garage is probably the
best thing that has happened to us in the

. past few years. [The number of parking viola-

tions this year] is down a whole lot.”

“The parking garage is a big improvement
to the previous parking situation we had on
campus,” said Young. “It is wonderful for
students to know that they have a space wait-
ing for them on campus.”

ﬁf

September 18, 2000

City: iliittg-tum iﬂlii

 

 

 
  

Generals in Overt e:
Girls soccer breaks

 

 

 

. LE‘!'Bl;’?t?*.i l_.lFs¥7./KRY
TJN it LEE Uf~!l‘v'EP.SlTY

 

@112

liking-tum iﬂlri

  NEWS

Mehul SIiVastaVa’s

World

Life outside the Bubble

Report

Indian Prime Minister on goodwill visit to the
US

The Prime Minister of India, Atal Behari Vajpayee is in
the US on a ﬁve-day goodwill visit, drumming up support
for India’s stand on global issues like the Comprehensive
Test Ban Treaty, and International terrorism.

In a reciprocal visit for President Clinton’s visit to India
earlier this year, Mr Vajpayee will go back home with over
$6 billion in power contracts and assurances from both Al
Gore and George Bush that the process of India-US high
level talks will continue, but without being able to address
the key issues that are sources of concern for both India
and the US.

There was no agreement on the issues of nuclear pro-
liferation, nor did the Americans give any assurance of
support for India’s bid for a permanent seat on the UN
Security Council.

On the other hand, there was a reiteration of the belief
that India and US are“ natural allies ” (Al Gore), and that
both countries are tied together by common beliefs like
democracy (India being the world’s largest democracy, and
the US the richest).

Another important development was the setting up of
joint working group to address terrorism as sponsored by
Islamic Fundamentalist groups operating mostly out of Af-
ghanistan, targeting both India and the US. India has faced
ongoing terrorist attacks, mostly in Kashmir, and the US
has been targeted by men like Osama Bin Laden, who in
recently called for a jehad ( holy war ) against India and
America.

Sydney 2000

The “greatest show on earth” kicked off in Sydney with
a blaze of glory. After a long and arduous journey lasting a
100 days, including an underwater swim, having changed
hands over 11,000 times, the Olympic torch arrived in
Sydney. In a rare show of Australian political correctness,
the torch was handed over to an aboriginal athlete, Cathy
Freeman, who then lit the Olympic ﬂame, which will over
the next 17 days burn over the efforts of athletes to go
higher, run faster, and be stronger.

One of the highlights of the show was North and South
Korea marching under the same ﬂag, with the 1 10,000 strong
crowd roaring its approval. The Australian Olympics com-
mittee went out of its way to create a show that would
justify the Australian reputation of being able to throw a
great party, setting a world record for the largest number of

people ever raised aloft in an aerial performance. As Greg
Norman, Australian Golﬁng legend put it, “if we see so
many people smiling, we must be doing something right.”

Petrol Crisis

In a premonition of future crises over fuel shortages,
Europe and Britain ground to a halt as people took to the
streets protesting high fuel costs. Lines for fuel pumps
snaked onto highways, as people queued up to buy petrol
for their vehicles. Most fuel pumps in Britain shut down
since protestors would not allow fuel tankers to deliver
their loads.

The protests started in rural Britain, with mostly farm-
ers protesting the high price of petrol, which is almost ﬁve
dollars for a gallon, out of which 80% is tax. Then the
protests moved towards the city, and soon there was little
or no petrol available for even school buses and ambu-
lances. Prime minister Tony Blair asked for special emer-
gency powers to keep the situation under control.

By the middle of the week, most petrol pumps in Britain
had run dry, and fuel shortages caused hospitals to cancel
operations, schools to close down, and even soccer stadi-
ums to have sparser attendance than normal.

But on Friday, the protestors, showing great political
acumen, called off the blockades. With virtually no petrol
left for sale in the country, they had proven their point.
Also, they had received an assurance from Blair that in
November, the new budget will keep their concerns in mind.

UN Millennium Summit

In what was the largest concentration of world leaders
in one place, the UN Millennium summit ended on an arnbi—
tious note of almost utopian hyperbole. They promised to
cut down poverty by half, halt the spread of aids, and
provide education for all children by 2015, a repetition of
promises past declarations have been making for almost
the entire existence of the UN. The summit was mostly a
talk-festival, providing leaders with the opportunity to meet
and mingle with the most powerful people in the world.

Yet, the more interesting events took place in the side-
lines of the summit. The Palestinians agreed to delay dec-
laration of statehood, while Fidel Castro slipped into a line
of people shaking hands with Bill Clinton, and the UN
reduced American contribution to UN funds. The summit
is signiﬁcance for the UN, which is struggling to shake off
allegations of powerlessness.

 

Class agents and reunions

Class agents, two representatives from each alumni
class in charge of fundraising for the University’s Annual
Fund, met on the campus the previous weekend to dis-
cuss means of soliciting donations from their classmates.
The Armual Fund is the collection of pledges given by
fornrcr students of Washington and Lee.

The Reunion Chairs visited campus this weekend to
discuss plans for Alumni Reunion Weekend, which will
be held this year on the weekend of May 3-5. The Univer-
sity holds a reunion for all alumni who graduated in ﬁve
year increments before the current year.

--Katie Howell
‘HAZE’

SEPTEMBER18, 2000.

Shutkin opens lecture series

Williamshutkin, founder and president of New Ecol-
ogy Inc., will be the inaugural speaker in a lecture series
at Washington and Lee University titled “Growth and
Conservation: Lessons from the Humanities.”

Shutkin will speak on Wednesday,

Sept. 20 at 7:30 p.m. in the Science Center, Room A214.

The lecture series is sponsored by the Virginia Foun-
dation for the Humanities and Public Policy and is de-
signed to help student and the local community under-
stand the challenges of reconciling growth and develop-
ment with the preservation of the local environment.

Shutkin’s recent book, The Land That Could Be: En-
vironmentalism and Democracy in the Twenty-First Cen-
tury, points the way to vibrant, sustainable communities
through four examples of civic environmentalism in ac-
tion.

Shutkin also serves as a lecturer in the department of
urban studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy and is an adjunct professor of law at Boston College.

--Courtesy W&L website

those he considers “out of the loop,” Hutchings believes
he has a favorable relationship with the ﬁrstclassmen. 'His
opposition to hazing remains steadfast.

“It’s malignant,” he said. “I intend to ﬁght it with a
combination of spiritual chemotherapy and ruthless sur-
gery.”

Hutchings considers the previous treatment of rats “fra-
temity-like hazing,” prompting the question of what, if any,
hazing goes on at W&L fraternities.

During their freshmen year, most students rush for fra-
ternities and sororities. Fraternity Rush in particular often
includes a series of physically and emotionally challeng-
ing tasks.

Interfratemity Council sponsor William “Burr” Datz sees
rushing a fraternity as one of the ways a boy can become
a man. So long as assigned tasks don’t injure health or
grades, he believes fraternities provide a bonding experi-
ence that teaches pledges “their Weaknesses and [that]
bonds them with their classmates.”

Mark Dalhouse, Dean of Freshmen, cautions Rush par-
ticipants to “have enough discernment to [avoid anything]
that endangers their health.” Neglecting studies can cause
“devastating consequences later in the term,” resulting in
“academic probation or worse.”

Besides imbibing drinks or avoiding books, university
ofﬁcials are concerned about the possibility of Rush haz-
ing.

“Hazing is contrary to the academic purposes of the
University,” said Mike Young, Director of University Se-
curity, who says violators will be punished according to

, FROM PAGE 2
the penalties outlined in the Student Handbook. The in-
stitution that oversees fraternity behavior is the Interfra-
temity Council, composed of fraternity members elected
by fraternity presidents. I

“It’s a mediator between the administration and the
fraternities,” said senior Qunicy Springs, a Council mem-
ber. “Whenever there’s a discrepancy or a problem or, not
even on the negative side, activities that need to be con-
ducted with fraternities, the IFCC is the one that facilitates
things.”

The IFC, which is responsible for the new house party
policies, safeguards freshmen from overly grueling rush
activities, seeking safe substitutes instead.

“Hazing by its deﬁnition isn’t tolerated by the IFC,”
said Springs. Instead, “each of the fraternities has service
oriented projects.”

Violations of rush regulations are not known. Last
year Phi Kappa Alpha ran into some difficulty during the
last week of Rush. “It’s a confidential manner,” said
Springs, “but last year Pika was found hazing. They were
found in the seventh week, so the only have one week-for
Rush.”

Fraternities found guilty of breaching IFC standards
must automatically induct all pledges and may only rush
next year for a time equal to the time remaining in the Rush
the violation occurred.

Whatever one’s opinions on fraternities, no one dis-
misses their inﬂuence. “We give our boys to fraternities
to make them men,” said Datz. “If they keep them in a
drunken adolescence, they’re not doing their job.”

 

PHI or 13 Y El
There are winners and
losers out there:
who do you want to
write for?

PHI AT WL.U.I-:Du

     
     
   
   
       

P -T EMPLOYMENT

The Stonewall Jackson House is hiring
part-time weekend guide/shop staff.
Individuals must enjoy working with the
public, possessyexcellent communication
skills and be able to convey historical and
biographical information. Applications
available at
8 E. Washington St., Lexington.

  

41

r

WANTED:
‘I Str-'a1:eegis1:s
Guick Thinkers
Téam Players

, Achievers , -

Meeting our clients’ expectations tozdeliuerrrtntioyative
tinancial solutions requires intuition, strategyand teamwork.
a On weekends they _call it court vision. What’s your game plan?

Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Controllers Department
Interviewing on Campus

Tuesday, October 24, 2000

Be Part of Our Team!
Submit Your Resume to the Career Services Office
by no later than:

Thursday, September 21, 2000

MINDS. WIDE OPEN?”
www.gs.com

Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by tederal, state or local laws. © 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co.

 

PAGE 4

O

@112 iliing-tum ilﬁlti

PINION

SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

Lilliputian constraints bind sports giant

Bob Knight was ﬁred from his post at the helm of the
Indiana University men’s basketball program September 10,
less than four months after the school announced that the be-
havior of the controversial coach would

and 1987), one more than Dean Srnith’s North Carolina
teams (1982 and 1993). The General’s career record of
763-290—including six seasons as head coach at the U.S.
Military Academy—ranks him ﬁfth

be restricted by a zero-tolerance policy.
Despite Knight’s claims in an
ESPN interview two days later, the

The ljnejudge
Jeremy S. Franklin ‘04

all time on the NCAA Division I
wins list. The Hoosiers posted a
.734 win percentage (661-240)

coach had been fully informed of the
implications of this policy by IU President Myles Brand
and athletic director Clarence Doninger. But, given Knight’s
behavior during his 29 seasons as head coach of the Hoo-
siers, what IU ofﬁcial really expected any new stipulations
to better regulate the General’s behavior?

Whether or not you like Bob Knight-and there’s a good
chance that you don’t — one thing carmot be logically
contested: that he is one of the greatest coaches in college
basketball history. Knight belongs in a very elite class of
coaches, one for which only one other current coach -
Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski-truly qualiﬁes.

Knight’s Hoosiers won three national titles (1976, 1981,

LETTERS TO
THE EDITOR

Web registration not that bad

Dear Editor:

I am writing in respose to the opinion article by Mike
Press on English and PE classes. I, too, was shut out of
English and PE fall term of my Freshman year here at Wash-
ington and Lee, BUT I had to stand in line for 1 1/2 hours to
ﬁnd that out, because it was before the ease of web regis-
tration. In fact, some of the people that lived on my hall
camped out for classes. Of course, while we were standing
in lines for these classes, the others were ﬁlling up, too. So
what? I got my English class winter term and played Varsity
Basketball that winter. It was not a big deal, I just had to
wait my turn — something I learned back in Kindergarten.

As far as the English Department offering upper level
courses that aren’t ﬁlled, I ask you how important the word
“Graduation” is to you. Many of these courses are required
for an English Major (which I am not) and are only offered
every other year due to the small staff to which you refered
in your article. In fact, the department has to hire extra part-
time staff to teach the amount of classes it does offer to
freshman. I assure you that there is plenty of interest in the
classes that are being taught even if some seats are empty.
Isn’t that why you came to a small college - so you didn’t
have to have 25 people in all of your classes?

 The PE department uses’ varsity coaches to teach PE
cilasses both when coaches are .in,,,$¢ason,,, and when
they are out of season. Offering more classes, would put a
tremendous snain on the in season coaches and would cause
them to sacrifice their commitment to their varisty team in
order to fuﬁll some freshman’s desire to have a PE course

under Knight.

“We’ve never been mediocre,” Knight told Jeremy
Schaap in the ESPN interview. “We’ve always been re-
ally good or pretty good as a team, and more than any-
thing I wanted to see us get back to being really good.”

Knight was robbed of such an opportunity by Brand’s
“zero tolerance policy.” Granted, the coach was wont to
egregious behavior, but this was no new phenomenon.
The ﬁrst public incident occurred in 1976-the season IU
ﬁnished 32-0, the last time a Division I team went unde-
feated — when the General grabbed sophomore Jim
Wisman by his jersey and threw him into a chair on the
Hoosier bench. Several similar occurrences speckled an

otherwise brilliant career for Knight. Indeed, no one ——
save a few deranged IU students, who have threatened
and burned in efﬁgy Brand and others involved in the
coach’s dismissal —— is trying to sanctify Knight as a
human being. '

Yet the Hoosiers have deprived themselves of one of
the best coaches in college basketball history.

Knight knew how to win, and just two of his four-year
players left IU without a diploma in hand-a graduation
rate of 98 percent, phenomenal for modern times.

“I am really proud of what our basketball program turned
out at Indiana,” Knight said. “I’m just so proud of the kind of
kids that we’ve turned out, and the kind of men that these
kids have developed into. We’ve kind of woven an atmo-
sphere of success academically, athletically, and after gradu-
ation that I think all of us are really proud of.”

Despite his sometimes ungentlemanly behavior, let me
be one of the only sports writers to tip my hat to Coach
Bob Knight for 29 years of success at the helm of the
Indiana University Hoosiers.

photo by MatthaEdwards/staff photographer

CHILLIN’ AT THE Co-0P. A Washington and Lee pasttime, students spend a beautiful fall day outside of
the Co-op enjoying the time before schoolwork piles up.

Student defends need for
Anti-Defamation League
activities for freshmen

right away. This is not fair to the men and women who play .

varsity sports. If you want to complain about PE, try com-
plaining about how Varisty atheletes can play four seasons in
a sport and only get two PE credits for it. . . two PE credits that
count the samearnount as someone who is taking bowling.
That, to me, is what is needs to be changed. If you want more
room for “normal” people who just want a PE, get the depart-
ment to waive some of the extra PE’s for varsity atheletes.
That would free up a lot of room for incoming Freshmen.

Many people before you have been shut out of classes
they wanted to take and many after you will be shut out as
well. It is a part of life —— you don’t always get what you
want when you want it. As you move up the totem pole and
need classes to graduate, I hope you will appreciate the
way the system works. It has worked for 250 years and it
will work in the future.
Sincerely,
Lauren Andrews ’0l

Tilt: ‘tiling-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes

Max Smith

Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Jessica Jones
Michael Crittenden
Bryan Early

News Editor
Assistant News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Contributing Editors

Last Word Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The‘ Washington and Lee
Pjjjublications Board elects the Executive Editor, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Dear Editor,

The recent editorial, “The ADL drums up busi-
ness. . . yet again,” was a very well written article,
but I hope this fact will not mistakenly convince read-
ers of its validity. The author had a right to express
his opinion about the ADL Campus of Difference
activity he attended last week with his class. The
program is still new and perhaps this inﬂuenced fresh-
men perceptions. However, the premise behind the
article was hugely ﬂawed. I would like to clear up any
misconceptions.

First, the Campus of Difference program is not
purely reactive. Our administration had considered
utilizing it before the Idaho Delegation T—shirt inci-
dent even occurred. However, this incident certainly
exposed the need for the program.

Second, the author would have us believe that “the
world has become that idealistic” and that “we have
largely achieved what Dr. King desired. . .” Perhaps
in strongly wanting to believe in this idealism he has
been blinded to so many events that occur both on
campus and in the ‘real world.’ There is a history to
W&L beyond the current year and the “Idaho T—shirt
incident.” While much of this history is wonderful,
sadly it does include less—than-idealistic events.

Just last year, homophobic remarks appeared in a
student’s campaign slogan and were heard on an-
other student’s radio show. A Jewish student left
campus after an upperclassman made anti—Semitic
comments in his presence. Certainly not every stu-
dent, nor even the majority of them, are guilty of such
incivility. Yet, perhaps after a year at W&L, the au-
thor will notice some of the day-to-day slights minor-
ity students nonetheless experience, even if these

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

TALKback:

 

 

Brandon Waddell, because he
would add controversy and
humor to our mundane society.

—Patrick Lahan ‘04

as

“John Cornly — he is good at his
present job and could use his scare
tactics against foreign countries.”
-Carrie Graham ‘04

slights are unintended, and even if other individuals
want to remain unaware of them.

As a senior who sees the ‘real world’ looming ahead, I
am also particularly aware of non-idealistic events out-
side of the campus community. “The politically-correct
l990’s,” as the author calls them, were not so ideal as
to prevent events like the Rodney King race riots, the
brutal murder of a gay student, Matthew Shepherd, or
the Columbine shootings, in which two ostracized and
harassed students target members of other social
groups. These events are admittedly the most publi-
cized examples of recent hate crimes. It makes me even
sadder to think about all of the smaller-scale events of
which we are unaware.

Moreover, the program was not meant to “train” en-
tering students or to assume that all freshmen enter as
bigots, as the author claimed. On the contrary, it was
meant to promote openconversation on topics which,
he may soon find, people are often hesitant to talk
about. By not talking about differences, people may
never have to reflect on their own premises or precon-
ceived notions.

The exercise to which the author referred asked stu-
dents to choose “four words to describe [their] heri-
tage, background, and ethnicity” as they interpreted
them. However, the descriptors were not limited to race,
ethnicity, background, age, or socioeconomic status.
While I chose race as one of my descriptors, I also chose
“family—oriented” as an important component of my identity.

We then asked individuals to notice their common-
alities as well as the differences which make us diverse.
The exercise was not meant to erect barriers that didn’t
already exist. It encouraged self—evaluation as well as
conversation about socially-constructed barriers.

I am glad that the author feels we all judge others by
the content of their character. I hope he leads by ex-
ample. I hope that we will all strive to achieve the ideal-
ism he describes.

Sincerely,
Anne Hazlett ’01
ADL Facilitator

 

Cat’s

Corner

0, hark, all ye illicit drug—takers of Washington and Lee!
Had you previously thought your sketchy recreational ac-
tivities could prevent you from taking that fabulous
$5 shmillion a year job once you graduate from the C-School?
Were you concerned that the white powder clinging to your
nostrils wouldn’t make good interview attire? That reeking
of reefer doesn’t exactly exude eau de business? Worry
not, my little stoned friends. According to a speaker at last
week’s Career Services meeting for seniors, this is no longer
the case. The speaker, a recent graduate of this fine univer-
sity, opened her talk by saying, in more words or less, that
due to the increased number of jobs available at present, a
lot of companies are doing away with drug-testing to widen
their applicant pool.

What a strange thought -— workplaces opening their
arms to drug—users. I have no problem with most drugs, a
teetotaler I am not, but there are places where they’re ap-
propriate and places where they are not. Should we have
the same attitude toward drugs as toward alcohol? Most of
us would be disinclined to say that going to work drunk is
a good idea. I mean, a drunk hook-up is one thing but a
drunk hook-up with your boss (or your boss’s coat rack) in
broad daylight followed by some regurgitative pyrotechnics
is a completely different animal.

Although the speaker at the meeting spoke of loosened
restrictions on drug—use in the application process, I would
imagine that most employers are not psyched about the
idea of their underlings doing drugs, if only for their
company’s image. A few months ago I read an article in a
British fashion magazine about women who were recreational
drug users were found out one way or another by their
place of employment, and were fired. Does your company
have a right to say, “Toots, what you do in your own time
does affect your time here with us at Happy Company, Inc.
since you came in so bedraggled/coked up this morning, so
of course we have a right to demand urine/hair/blood tests
and to regulate your hours outside your job.” It’s a fine line,
and the hair could be split either way. On one hand, the
goody-two—shoes inside me says a rule is a rule.

 

nile to me. People might be inclined to insist that the drugs
they do do not affect their performance at work, and possi-
bly enhance it. Do companies have a right to get involved

you’re out, regarding failing drug tests?

investment bankers, rolling on ecstasy, rubbing glitter on
each other, frolicking to and fro. Ah, bliss.

My attendance at the senior meeting also made me near
jump with glee in response to knowing I will not be joining
most of my class in the workforce next year, regardless of
whether or not I could be happily toking along while I perform
my daily duties. IfI hear one more C—School major worry
about not getting a job, I’m going to crawl out of my Science
Center cave and spank them silly. (And, no, you won’t like it.)

Listen to me: You will get a job, you will work 150 hours
a week, you will get paid a million or so dollars a year plus
bonuses for signing, Christmas/Hanukah/Kwanzaa,
President’s Day, your birthday and your mother’s birthday
off of work. You will get a company car, lap—top, apartment,
credit card, and in return, they will expect you to become a
company slave. You know all this now, have known it since
freshman year; don’t act surprised.

When you say, “I don’t know what I want to do,” you
mean, “I don’t know which big, faceless megacompany I
want to work for next year.” Which is ﬁne, and I’m sure I’ve
gotten lots of you C-School types all in a huff, but your
chosen major practically guarantees you a nice cushy job,
if you want it (which most of you do). More power to you.

My major (geology) may not bring me fame and fortune
(although, folks, can you really think of a sexier job?) but
I’m incredibly passionate and excited about it and if that
means eating rice and/or beans everyday for the rest of my
life, then so be it. I will do so, by candle light, with my even
less employable friends, the English majors.

numbing job and then do drugs to make up for it.
Woo-hoo, bring on the hallucinogenics!
I’m going to the Real World!

If you break a rule, you deserve to be punished. This .,
black-and-white interpretation seems harsh and a bit juve— -

when your life infringes on their time? (And it is effectively "
their time since they do buy it from you. If they don’t like ‘
what they’re buying, it is within their power to stop buying it.) I1
Are certain drugs are okay? Only on Fridays? Three strikes, 

Close your eyes and imagine this: Gaggles of suited I

I honestly have no clue as to where I’ll be this time next f
year, but I think that’s a ﬁne place to be right now. I’d put 
my money on graduate school, but as to where and what for, '
I’m currently taking suggestions. I could even take the advice ;
gleaned from the senior meeting and get myself a job. The I
meeting didn’t make me want to work any more than I already 
didn’t, but at least now I know I could get a horrible, mind- :

Who would you pick for President, and why?

 

“Professor Futch, because he already
dreams of being a Czar—like ﬁgure.”
-Matt Herman ‘O1

“Claiborne Taylor — the head of my
Project Outreach. He is a wonderful
diplomat and organizer: he is intelli-
gent and cute as hell.”

~-Natalie Deihel 504

L341

nA:A‘AA.A‘£'¢‘n“a'AAA’i)'a.nArlnzaaAAA1.)£75)

    

 

" SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

  o

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁhi

PINION

PAGE 5

Comedy Central’s Indecision
2000 makes light of a truism in the
Y modern presidential election. Ac-
cording to popular discourse, why
does it matter whether we vote for
Bush or Gore? Despite different ide-
ologies, they are operationally the
l‘ same.

Consistent with this philosophy,

endorse one of the candidates, but
K instead explain why so many voters
will stay home this November.

The political commentators and
talking heads on MSNBC and CNN
say a lot, but it all boils down to
‘I this: People who are more inter-
ested in politics of substance will
vote for Gore, while those who
value politics of personality will
favor Bush. Brainy monolith ver-
sus empty—headed pretty boy —
what a choice!

who votes with his wallet, Bush is
I the obvious choice. His rationale
in this area appeals to anybody
who can rub two brain cells to-
gether: The government does not
do 40 percent of your job, cook 40
percent of your meals, or pay for
ﬁve cans out of your 12-pack, so a
third of your salary seems unreason-
able. Gore’s proposed tax cuts are
R paltry by comparison. Naturally, he
points out that Bush’s tax cut is so
large that it is ﬁscally irresponsible.

Unfortunately, he’s probably
right. Bush’s mostly pasty—white-
guy constituency will not care.
They’re proud to bring the “me”
culture to its greatest

“K

. Indistinguishables extinguish interest

I will not take this opportunity to _

If you are one of those voters v

lars. Not to sound heartless, but Grarnps
could probably afford to pitch in a buck
or two his viagra.

When was the last time you saw an
elderly wino on the city streets, holding
a sign that said, “HOMELESS AND

depth yet!

ah Gore’s plan for Medi-
care would also be hor-
rendously expensive.
Though he champions
himself as defender of the elderly
(and just about every other “victim-
ized” group), Gore overlooks an im-
portant statistic: The average house-
hold net worth for Americans over
K sixty-‘ﬁve is a quarter of a million dol-

 

NEED DI-

_ ALYSIS?”
Slippery Soapbox The afore-
- » mentioned
M1keAgnel1o02 talking

heads, as
well as many of our resident political
pointy-heads at W&L, insist that the
prospective appointees of the Supreme
Court are an issue in this campaign. I
cannot help but laugh. Little change will

take place in the J ustices’s selection pro-

cess, regardless of the president-elect.
Neither Gore nor Bush has the
cahones to pick a decisively conser-
vative or liberal candidate.

Instead, we’ll see an assembly line
of uncontroversial, moderately liberal
or conservative candidates. Rest as-
sured, nobody who considers gays or
unborn children real people will oc-
cupy the highest court in the land.

So why, then, should W&L stu-
dents, a group of mostly prosperous
young people relatively unaffected by
the issues, vote at all? Good question.

Like it or not, no weasely son of
privilege is going to ﬁnd a way to get
a college freshman girl running for the
voting booth at quite the same speed

that she sprints to the fro-yo machine.
No apathetic frat boy is going to vote
.with quite the same gusto that he hits
the beer bong. W&L students, like
voters across the country this No-
vember, will stay home in record num-
bers. Why? Neither Bush nor Gore
has anything to offer in the way of
substance. Voting for either is in some
way taking a step backward, and will
only produce some different version
of nothing.

So, who’s left? Ralph Nader? Pat
Buchannan? If I want to vote for a
psycho, I’ll write in a W&L professor.
Excuse me while I take a minute to fix
my hair. . . I gotta look good before I hit
the beer bong tonight.

WIN A TRIP
FOR TWO TO

  

wortdwido vacnuom
for 18 to 35 ymroids

    

AFRICA

.3 This year the cast of MTV's
7 ’The Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

 

Enter for a chance to win at your
localiCouncil Travel office or at
counciltravel.com

This trip to Africa is provided by

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..
between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited.,See agency for Official Rules or go
to counciltraveI.com. Sweepstakes ends 10/15/O0.

Travel

counciltravel.com
1 -800-ZCOUNCIL

HBRUHD

with

SYRHCUSE
UNIUEBSITY

‘W Italy
virgin
atlantlc London

Spain

Hong Kong

France

what are

7

RETIREMENT INSURANCE

And for good reasons:

managed funds

personal service

Year in and year out, employees at education and
research institutions have turned to TIAA-C REF.

- Easy diversification among a range of expertly
- A solid history of performance and exceptional

- A strong commitment to low expenses
0 Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options

For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for-
and enjoy——successful retirements. "

Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple.
Go with the leader: TIAA-C REF.

It ’ s time
This November presents the vot-
ing public, and by extension the coun-
try itself, with a very important deci-
sion. For the most part, there are two
choices. One can either vote for a

to secede

subsidize child care, go into space, or
punish murderers, kidnappers, or car
thieves. Practically two-thirds of the
federal budget each year ﬁnances pro-
grams that are in direct violation of the

party that pro-
fesses belief in
the individual
and is commit-

Constitutional

Right of the aisle limitations on
, , the Congress.

Brett  Krrwan 04 All these mat_

ted to the rights

and liberties granted by our Creator
and guaranteed by our Constitution
or one can vote for a party that con-
tinues to abrogate those rights and
displays an insulting contempt for hu-
man initiative and individual respon-
sibility. The choice, for any liberty-lov-
ing American, should be clear.

What is discouraging is that one
should not have to vote to retain, let
alone regain, these rights. They are,
as the Declaration’ of Independence
states, “unalienable”. These rights
come straight from God and it
shouldn’t matter for whom one votes
or who is running the government. In
fact, the Constitution was speciﬁcally
designed to prevent g-men from in-
fringing on our life, liberty, or ability
to pursue happiness.

Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion explicitly states the 17 powers of
Congress and the Tenth Amendment
goes on to say that, without excep-
tion, the federal government may do
nothing else. That’s right, it is uncon-
stitutional for the bureaucrats in Wash-
ington to set a speed limit, regulate
greenhouse gas emissions, grant loans
to students, ban assault weapons,

 

MUTUAL FUNDS

 

Why is TIAA—CREF the
#1 choice nationwide?
The TIAA—CRE
Advantage.

TRUST SERVICES

 

ters are best
left to the states or people. When the
federal government illicitly involves
itself in local matters it suns
roughshod over the rights that it was
established to protect.

With a force as powerful as the in-
ertia of the federal bureaucracy ar-
rayed against us, what are freedom-
seeking citizens to do? It may be
time to secede.

In 1776, thirteen colonies of the
British Empire seceded because their
citizens no longer felt that the gov-
ernment was adequately protecting
its rights. Imagine what Thomas
Jefferson would have to say if he
were around today to draw up a list
of grievances.

Professor Walter Williams of
George Mason University suggested
in a recent column that Texas and Loui-
siana should be populated by people
committed to individual liberties and
then declare itself to be the indepen-
dent nation of Texiana. In our age of
an ever increasing federal government
and with so many of our fellow citi-
zens complicit in the further destruc-
tion of our basic rights, secession may
be our only option.

TUITION FINANEING

 

 

Investmeht Expeilise

 

Low Expenses

 

Payment Options

Customized

 
 

   

Expert Guidance

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa-cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully
before you invest. - TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. 0 Teachers
Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. 0
TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. 0 IIAA-CREF Trust Company, F58 provides trust services.
- Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. 9 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03

 

PAGE 6

 

W&IZ‘

Ring-tum iﬁhi

IFE

SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

Virginian son leaves English
castles for college colonnades

By Shelley Meyer

STA FF WRITER

He studied at Brown University, the
Folger Institute, Emmanuel College at
Cambridge, and Harvard University,
then returned to Brown and Harvard
as a professor. Even so, Eric Wilson,
Assistant Professor in the English De-
partment, calls himself a “rookie.”

Though he grew up in
Charlottesville, Wilson said he was
ready to get out of Virginia after high
school and was therefore drawn to
Brown. He entered Brown as a pre—med
major but then changed to English with
an emphasis on Shakespeare and Re-
naissance Literature. At Brown, Wil-
son participated in the Rose Writing
Fellows Program for three years.

“[The Rose Writing Fellows Pro-
gram] was a cross—disciplinary tutor-
ing and writing program,” he said. “It
solidified my interest in being a teacher
— being involved in teaching writing.”

During his summers, Wilson worked
as a counselor and teacher in a pro-
gram for gifted and talented students
at the University of Virginia.

“I enjoyed the range of different
kinds of experiences in teaching,” he
said.

Wilson has taught high school stu-
dents, undergraduate students and
graduate students.

“When you come down to it, stu-
dents are students,” said Wilson.
“They are all top of the league at
Brown, Harvard and W&L.”

Wilson said that though he grew
up in the “shadow of UVA,” where
both of his parents teach, it was obvi-
ous to him that W&L had advanced in
all aspects.

“It is clear to me what quantum
leaps W&L has made over the past
decade — the quality of students and
the national range of students it at-
tracts.”

HULL’

DRIVE-|I\l

FRIDAY 0 SATURDAY 0 SUNDAY
4 Miles, Route ll North Lexington

463-2621

Aolmission‘ $4/adult
Gate Opens 7pm
Movies at Dusk

X-MEN PG

   

 

A DOUBLE FEATURE A

HI-FIDELITY

www.hu||sdrivein.c0m

Wilson said that Washington and
Lee is not only a nourishing environ-
ment for students, but also for the
teachers.

“The University is committed to
supporting the faculty,” he said.

Teaching at Washington and Lee
is not just a temporary job for Wil-
son. He said that he was glad to re-
turn to Virginia and did not plan to
leave Lexington any time soon, un-
less offered his dream job: founda-
tion director at Monticello.

“Sometimes people thinkl should
be in the History Department instead
of English, but part of the draw to
English history was growing up in
Charlottesville.”

Wilson also said that academics
were not his only reason for retum—
ing.

“I was eager to come back,” he
said. “It very much feels like home —
as is the college setting. I’ve done

my time in ‘metropolis.’ It’s nice to
have a change of pace. Teaching un-
dergraduates here is the core of what
I ultimately enjoy doing.”

Wilson said he hopes to become
involved in study abroad programs in
Britain. He spent a year in London
working on his dissertation on the in-
terrelation of education and theater in
Elizabethan London.

“London is my favorite city,” Wil-
son said. “It’s an exhausting place for
all the right reasons.”

At Harvard, he advised senior hon-
ors theses and said he hoped to do so
at Washington and Lee. He said it
might even be easier here because of
the closer academic relationships.

“Harvard can be somewhat
Balkanized in its disciplines,” Wilson
said. “Part of what I feel here is the
intimacy within and between the de-
partments. I was thrilled to get a job at
W&L.”

  

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

HOME swEET HOME Virginia native Professor Eric Wilson joins the
English Department staff as an associate professor with experience
at Harvard and Brown Universities.

OQQG

   
 
 
 

R

LEXINGTON

COFEE

.(/a’o«z.i~/('¢;?.;;yu:zg/
FRESH EACH MORNING

GOURMET SPECIALTIES
STUDENT CARE PACKAGES
CREATIVE GIFT BASKETS
LAUGHTER & SMILES

540 464 4433
Order Toll Free: 877 473 4433
We Ship Anywhere!

    

1

Fun & Festive Gifts!
6 East Washington Street, Lexington

Next 7?) Stanewalljac/emn Howe

N

www.funfoOdsfor_you.com

‘Making Mealtime Memories!”

‘ 

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS
9 WEST VVASHINGT ON STREET ° LEXINGTON ° 464-6586

 

Exhibit unites architectural
past and present at W&L

By Ashley Klimp
STAFF WRITER

The duPont Hall Gallery is cur-
rently home to an atypical collec-
tion of artwork, “Reflections on
White Columns.” Focusing on the
architecture of Washington and Lee
University, the exhibit includes
photographs, drawings, water-
color, and even the plans and mod-
els of several campus buildings.

The goal of the show is to com-
bine Washington and Lee’s archi-
tectural past with its present. Many
of the photographs reflect the
changes that have occurred on
campus over the years. There are
photographs of the colonnade
showing old Tucker Hall (a Gothic
stone structure that did not match
the other buildings on the colon-
nade) that burned down in the
1930’s.

Also shown was the construc-
tion of New Tucker Hall, which was
built to match Newcomb Hall and
balance the Colonnade.

The exhibit also features the
plans, models and pictures of build-
ings that were not constructed, giv-
ing a sense of what the campus
might have looked like. These in-
clude plans for a student center that
was never built and renovations to
Lee Chapel that were never made.

During the l920’s, plans were be-
gun to replace Lee Chapel with a
church that would better match the

‘ colonnade. Simpson stated that, at

the time, some felt that Lee Chapel
was “a building that was put up
when American architecture had
reached its lowest ebb.”

The exhibit includes examples
not only of Washington and Lee’s
architectural past but its present
and future as well. The law school

    

“REFLECTIONS ON WHITE COLUMNS” Professor Pamela Simpson
presents duPont Hall’s exhibit of W&L architechtural designs.

and library reflect a period of contem-
porary modernism and the most mod-
ern buildings, such as the Lenfest Cen-
ter, combine styles of the past with a
modem ﬂair. Pictures and plans from the
newly constructed sorority houses are
also included. Plans for the new com-
mons could not be exhibited because
the trustees have not yet approved
them.

Professor Stene, another faculty
member involved in the art show, con-
tributed two pieces to the exhibit. His
drawings of the column bases were
originally done in 1985 and are based
on an entire summer’s worth of pictures
taken of the campus. Stene originally
planned to do drawings of the build-
ings in their entirety, but after looking
at his work he decided, “that’s enough.”
Stene wanted to project a “sense of
place. I think everybody feels that if you
go here.”

Simpson has personal reasons for
heading the show: this past year she
wrote an essay also called “Reﬂections
on White Columns” for the university’s

250th year anniversary book,

Came Cheer for Washington and -'
Lee. She will give a talk concem— I
ing the development of the cam- '
pus next Friday at 5 p.m. in duPont '

Gallery.

Simpson specializes in Ameri— '1
can architecture and has a per- ‘
sonal interest in the subject of this -
show. The President of the His— "
toric Lexington Foundation, she "

also co-wrote Architecture of His-

toric Lexington, which was pub— ~
lished in 1977. The book was writ- '-
ten between 1973 and 1976, with i

the aid of Lyle Roster and photog-
rapher Sally Mann.
According to coordinator Pro-

fessor Pamela Simpson, this fall 

Washington and Lee will host the
professional meeting of the South
East Society of Architectural His-
torians.

A collection Professor Stene’s
own work, consisting mainly of

digital imagery, will be the focus ’

of an upcoming gallery show.

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor :

18

 

E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

PROBLEM WITH THE LOCALS .7
wE’RE FROM ATLANTA.

3. f. ‘s OPENS MON. - FRI. AT 4:00 AND
SAT. ~ sum AT NOON

DON’T MISS OUR MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
PARTY WITH .25 CENT HOT WINQS ~ 2 FOR 1

AEEETIZEBS AND SPECIALS WE CAN’T ADVERTISE

HERE !

WHILE wE’RE ON THE SUBJECT OF FOOTBALL
WE’VE GOT THE A/Fl .5'l(/lQ4}’_72’C/CE7‘
WATCH YOUR HOME TEAM ON OuR SCREENS
WHILE ENJOYING OuR Lumen SPECIALS OR
ANY OF FuLL MENu ITEMS SUCH AS OuR

16 Oz. T~ BONE STEAK wrm A BAKED POTATO
AND MIXED GREEN SALAD ~$6.50    

FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES HAVE YOU
SPONSORED YOUR ENTRY IN THE ﬁE[_77;lA/_)’
 LOOK-A-LRE CONTEST HOSTED ‘BY D.f
JOE’ ON SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 23 RD?!

:5 150.00 IN CASH PRIZES

H

F

+-

2»-«T-*’

--I

 

   
 

I ~
.
6
i

 

3‘ SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

S

@112 ‘ﬂing-tum jlﬂlii

PORTS

 

PAGE 7

» enerals split overtime games

By Geoff White

R SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team played consecutive over-
time contests against Old Dominion

‘ Athletic Conference opponents last
week, defeating Randolph-Macon and
losing to Eastern Mennonite by iden-
tical 2-1 scores.

Despite outshooting Randolph-
Macon 34-15 on Wednesday, the Gen-
erals could not pull off the win until
the ﬁnal minute of overtime.

On the defensive end of the ﬁeld,

4 senior goaltender Lauren Harris made
several saves, stopping early scoring
drives by Randolph-Macon.

A scoring drive early in the second

‘ half paid off when Generals freshman
Fontaine Marcoux netted an unas-
sisted goal over the head of Yellow
Jacket goaltender Ashley Seal.

Randolph—Macon tied the game

3 midway through the half, when Cheryl
Dickter scored off an assist from
Learma Van Osten following a danger-
ous kick call against Marcoux.

With 19 minutes left in regulation,
Marcoux ran the ball down the left side
of the field, but Seal managed to de-
ﬂect the shot wide. The Generals
weathered a late Yellow Jacket offen-

uk sive onslaught to force overtime.

Theplevel of physicality increased
early into overtime, as W&L sopho-

(more Jennifer Thomas was hauled

( down by Marie Rodgers.

“We have this rivalry (with
Randolph—Macon) tliat’s getting stron-
ger each year,” Harris said of the in-
tense physical play.

a With seven seconds left in the sec-
ond overtime, Marcoux scored to give
the Generals the sudden-death win.

“We were very focused and up and

‘ ready to play,” W&L coach Jan

 

CLOSE RANGE. Freshman Heather Coleman is stopped by the Eastern Mennonite goalkeeper in

the Generals’ 2-1 overtime loss Saturday.

Hathorn said of the team’s effort
against Randolph-Macon.

The Generals’ momentum carried
over into Saturday’s game against
Eastern Mennonite University, as
W&L scored 1:35 into the game against
the Royals. Jennifer Thomas rocketed
a tlirow-in to the foot of Marcoux, who
found the net for a quick 1-0 lead.

After the Marcoux goal, the teams
settled into a long period of even com-
petition. Kristin Pranke and the W&L
defense stopped several Eastern Men-

nonite offensive efforts, and the Gen-
erals were likewise thwarted by the
Royals’ defense.

However, with less than seven min-
utes remaining in the second half, East-
ern Mennonite’s Ellie Lind knotted the
match at 1-1. The Generals had to hold
back an invigorated Royals offense to
force overtime for the second time in
as many games.

With 2:25 left in the ﬁrst overtime,
Pranke was called for holding. As the
infraction occurred in the W&L pen-

_Men’s soccer takes two

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

Macon in the Generals’ first ODAC game Saturday.

“We’re really starting to play together,” Heam said.

Macon at home.

1 Thursday, the Generals beat Southern Virginia 3-2 in
the ﬁnal minute thanks to a goal from Ryan Nelson. The
Generals proceeded to win their first Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference match 2-0 over Randolph-Macon on Sat-

urday.

‘ “We came out hard for the first 15 minutes,” goal and
point leader Andrew Grimes said of the narrow win over
Southern Virginia. “When we lost our concentration, they

capitalized.”

A Grimes had two ﬁrst-half goals, one assisted by senior
Andy Crawford and the other by junior Rick Schnatz. The
Knights retaliated when Ryan Lenihan scored four rnin-
utes into the second half, followed by a goal from Ben

‘ Lingen ﬁve minutes later.
A‘.

SZIVCS.

“We got lucky,” Grimes said. “Ryan Nelson saved us.”
-‘j Sophomore goaltender Brad Heam shut out Randolph-

~’!

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team won their
second and third games of the season Thursday and Sat-
urday, beating Southern Virginia on the road and Randolph-

The ﬁnal goal came with one minute left in regulation,
when Nelson received a pass from Schnatz and drilled it in
for the win. The Generals outshot Southern Virginia 19-5
for the contest, and W&L goaltender Tim Foley made two

“This is the best game we’ve played so far.”

Coach Rolf Piranian agreed, saying, “We moved the

ball, and we defended well. I’m really pleased — this is the
best team effort we’ve had this year.”
The Generals’ first goal came 13 minutes into the first

half, when junior David Kodack passed to senior J on Wil-

son, whose shot was headed in at the goal line by Grimes.

With 18 minutes left to play in the half, Randolph—Ma-
con junior Marcus Toconita went down after being hit in
‘the throat during a play on the sidelines. He came out soon

after the hit because of breathing problems, but would

return later in the game.
Towards the end of the half, the Generals continued
their domination, as senior J acek Mucha handled’ the ball

alone in the Yellow Jackets’ end, failing only to capitalize

on a good offensive effort.

After Heam made a save against Randolph-Macon
freshman Andrew Beazly 16 rriinutes into the second half,
the Generals quickly took the ball upﬁeld. At the opposite

end, Grimes scored off a pass from freshman Bret Grote.

better.”

Heam came up big again ﬁve rriinutes later, stopping a
close-range shot from senior Josh Laux.

“It’s not the perfect game,” Piranian said of the win.
“But all the issues we’ve tried to deal with are getting

W&L next takes the ﬁeld Sept. 20 for a 4:30 p.m. home
match against Ferrum.

{Field hockey continues push

I toward full varsity status

 

.4.

By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
ﬁeld hockey team played their way
toward Division III status this past
week during home games on Friday
and Saturday.

As the new artiﬁcial turf complex
has not ofﬁcially opened, the Gener-
,( als competed on the law school ﬁeld.

“We’re not upset,” team captain
Martha Combrooks said of starting the
sjeason on grass. “I think we’re all just
' hrilled about the opportunity to play
on the turf.”

W&L dropped Friday’s game to
Division IH Virginia Wesleyan by a 2-
0 score. The Generals played the Mar-
lins closely, keeping the ball in the
VWC defensive end for a majority of
the game.

“They were very aggressive,” Mar-
lin head coach Michelle Burt said of

the Generals. “They were constantly
moving to the ball, and they have a lot
of quick players.”

After a scoreless first half, the Gen-
erals’ offensive mentality ended up
costing them two fast—break goals.
W&L coach Laurie Stagnitta felt that
her team kept pace with the Marlins,
but made a few crucial errors.

“We outplayed them,” Stagnitta
said of her team. “Our weakness was
that our circle defense collapsed at
critical points. We had some great op-
portunities and we didn’t complete the
plays. '

“We were aggressive, competitive,
and worked hard, but we just didn’t
get the win.”

On Saturday, the Generals once
again demonstrated the ability to com-
pete, this time against Christopher
Newport University. Play was strong
on both sides, but fast breaks made
within the closing minutes of the game
by the Lady Captains produced a 2-0

CNU win.

Captain Allison MacQueen felt the
team played extremely well, consider-
ing its late start on practices.

“All these games were very com-
petitive,” MacQueen said. “If we
played them later in the season we
probably would have won or tied.”

Combrooks was pleased with the
fan support at the weekend’s contests.

“It makes such a difference when
you have people cheering you on,”
the captain said. “We were grateful for
the turnout.”

Whether the team won or lost
seems to be insubstantial in their quest
for full varsity standing, according to
the VWC coach.

“I think that, for this being only
their second game, they played very
well,” Burt said of the Generals.
“Coach Stagnitta has developed them
into a very good team. W&L’s reputa-
tion in all intercollegiate sports is very
strong.”

  

   
  

by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

alty box, a penalty kick was awarded
to Mindi Nolt. On the ensuing shot,
Nolt beat Harris to give the Royals a
2-1 victory.

Pranke wasn’t pleased with the
referee’s call.

“We were both doing our fair share
of holding,” said the junior, who de-
scribed the call as “suspect.”

The Generals’ record now stands

at 2-2, 1-1 in the ODAC. W&L next
takes the field Tuesday for a road
match against ODAC foe Bridgewater.

 

 

This week ’s schedule in General athletics...
Football
Saturday Sept. 23 at Centre College 1230 pm
Men’s Soccer
Wednesday Sept. 20 Ferrum 4:30 pm
Saturday Sept. 23 Virginia Wesleyan 1:00 pm
Women’s Soccer
Tuesday Sept. 19 at Bridgewater 4:00 pm
Saturday Sept. 23 at Randolph—Macon 2:00pm
’ Sunday Sept. 24 at Lynchburg  *- 1:00pm
Volleyball '
Tuesday Sept. 19 at Emory & Henry 6:30pm
Thursday Sept. 21 Southern Virginia 6:30 pm
Saturday Sept. 23 Bridgewater A 1:00 pm

W&Lsports roundup

By Emily Barnes

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

place. Southern Virginia College, Virginia Weslyan,
Bridgewater College, and Shenandoah University also com-

W&L women’s team slides past
Roanoke in Generals Invitational

peted in the meet.

“It was close, which was exciting,” W&L coach Emily
Pulsifer said. “It was a good practice for our team, consid-
ering that we’ll be running the same course for the (Old
Dominion Athletic Conference championships) on Octo-

The Washington and Lee women’s cross country team ber 28 ,,

edged out Roanoke by eight points Saturday, winning their
first home meet of the year and setting the precedent for

the remainder of the season.

Sophomore Burke Duncan led the way for W&L, plac-

Duncan, whose time in the race was a personal best,
was pleased with the team’s performance.

“I think our team ran really well today,” Duncan said.
“Today is an example of the promising season we will

ing second overall in the Generals Invitational with a time ,,
of 19:53 in the three-mile race. Senior Jessica Parrillo placed

third overall with a time of 20:26, and classmate Kathleen Men’s cross country takes Second

Moroney placed fifth overall at 21: 10.

The men’s cross-country team placed second in

The Generals Won with a Score of 29’ followed Closely Saturday’s Generals Invitational with a score of 61 points '
by Roanoke College, who garnered 37 points for second falling to Roanoke C0uege,s Score of 26.

by Ervily Barnes/Executive Editor

SPEED RACER. Sophomore Burke Duncan placed

Freshman Andy Schorr ﬁnished fourth overall with a
time of 28:23 for the ﬁve-mile course. Freshman Eric Witt
was the second General to cross the ﬁnish line with a time
j of 29:11, and sophomore David Hicks followed him one
second later.

W&L coach John Tucker believes that the Generals’
performance is improving, and he hopes to see that pat-
tern continue.

“We’ve got a lot of potential,” Tucker said. “We’re
definitely getting there.”

Senior team captain Zach Usher singled out the perfor-
mances of the freshmen as the standouts.

“We had some strong individual performances that
bode well for ODACs,” Usher said.

The men’s and women’s cross country teams next com-
pete Sept. 30 in the Roanoke Invitational.

Volleyball team falls to Lynchburg

Washington and Lee lost in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference regular season play for the first time in nearly
three years, falling to Lynchburg College 15-7, 15-12, 15-4
on the road Wednesday.

The Generals (3-2, 0-1 ODAC) had not fallen victim to
another conference foe in the regular season since Oct.
16, 1997 —— a four-game loss to Guilford College — a streak
of 23 victories.

Junior Lindsay Ruckert recorded eight kills and three
blocks in the losing effort, and senior Pam Saulsbury led
the Generals with 13 assists.

W&L continues ODAC play Tuesday with a road con-
test against Emory & Henry.

second overall in the Generals Invitational.

Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin also contributed to this report.

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

AS TV/8gi15ClZ)

SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

I

F/RE-FAKER FORCES FUR/OU5

FLAP-DAGGLE

Many public school students
recall fondly the monthly
tradition of the fire drill— I am
not one of those people,
however.

I think that participating in fire
drills is a little pointless because
they are such a joke to the
participants. Being the realist
that I am, I know that in the
event of a real fire students will
absolutely notdo the following:

7. Ca/in/ygetoutofIhei'rseats,
leaving behind all personal
items — including the Britney
Spears posters ﬂhe one where
you can kinda, sorta, almost
see her nipple) that every guy
has hanging up in his locker
2. Getintoasingle file line.
3. Proceed to the previously
established Fire Exits.
4. Notgrope all the hot chicks
because itis near/yimpossib/e
to tell whois doing what in a
crowded hall when people are
fleeing fortheir/ii/es.
5 Ouietly exit the building and
walk to a safe distance away
In the event of a real fire I am
sure of two things: One, the
guys will all grab their Britney
Spears posters and two,
Darwinian evolutionary
practices will go into effect--
sorry women and children.
Now that we have established
how fire drills stand, let’s move
on to another subject that is
very near and dear to my heart:

People who pull fire alarms in
the dorms.

Let me just say that I think
you guys/gir1's,whateverthe hell
you are, are just fantastic. I
mean, boy, the creative juices
you need to work up those
complicated schemes, which
involve pulling on the levers that
say in bold letters “Don’t Pull
Unless There Is a Fire.”

That is just sheer brilliance.

I was a bit puzzled when I
arrived back to my dorm to see
a big, shiny fire truck with lots
of firemen in full garb milling.
So I walked over to some
people and asked them what
was going on. They told me
that it was a prank alarm. Bo_y
was my face red.

And then on Wednesday
when I was attempting to work
on Calculus (which I have
enough problems with already)
a sharp piercing screech fills
the ‘air and lights start like the
Commies just launched a
friggin’ missile attack.

So out I, and a hundred
others, go from our dorms to
mill around outside for half an
hour because the engineers
couldn’t get the damn thing
turned off.

Now, I’m sure at this point
whoever has been doing all
this HI-DIDDILY-ARIOUS
stuff, has been sent into a
near-coma-like-state from all
the laughing that they’ve been

by Officer MacPuff the Smoking Bear of the
International Fire Drill Prevention Agency

doing at the expense of
everyone else.

I don’t think I am missing the
mark too much that when I say
people don’t like this type of
prankster very much.

Right now, I am putting the
perpetrators of this heinous
act somewhere in between
Kathy Lee Gifford and Osama
Bin Laudin on the “People Who
Piss Me Off the Most List’ and
because I can’t do anything to
them, but I can do something
the “Fire-Faker”, I will.

So, if anyone turns in the
“Fire Faker,” the Hing-tum Phi’
will gladly reward that
individuals tattle-tailing nature
with two free Domino's pizzas
and a date with our
inadequately endowed
Assistant News Editor Matt
“Licorice Stick” McDermott.

Soto you “Fire-Faker” I say
this, your days are numbered.
You and your foul ilk are no
longer wanted here and there
will be no more tolerance of
your cruel acts against
humanity. It is high past time
that the Chains of Oppression
be thrown off and instead the
Chains of Rejoicing thrown
on. Our Chains of Rejoicing
will signal a new era in fire
safety in which all fire alarms
are real and all desperate
males will get perhaps their
only chance ever to grope
some hot chicks.*

Mom btsint oi: tin: Ii/esi<.'

IS I T UNGENTLEMANLY TO REPEA TEDLY
SEX UALLY HARASS YOURSELF?

 

Oppulent Oligczrchs Orchcstmte 

Oclzferous Olympics

It is time once again for that bi-yearly, mea’ia—
hyped event that the general public doesn ’t really
gi've a rip about. No, its no to Bill 6'/in ton scandal -
its the Olympics

The similarities in recent years be tween the two
have grown tremendously, howe ver. 30 th Clinton
and the Olympic Executive Committee were caught
with their pan ts down, bo th have been riddled with
allegations of scandal, and regardless of whatever
was found in bo th cases, nobody really seemed to
care.

The Olympics once were a cutthroat compe ti'tion
in which naked men competed in all sorts of violent
even ts to show their devotion to their pagan gods.

The winners would be feasted with wine and Gyros,
exalted as gods among men, and pleasured
frequently by Greek peasan t women. The losers on
the o ther hand would become outcasts from society,
be cast out of their families, and sent off to spend
the rest of their days in Germany. Then, several
thousand years after the Greek civilization
collapsea’, some brainiac got the idea to start up
the games again. .

Unfortunately, he forgot to put in all of the most
important parts and insteao’, had them stand for
good will, in terna tional pride, and a means to make
a quick buck. Luckily for capitalism, though, the
good—will part kind of got left behind and now all
thatis left is the hype and the corporate sponsors.
People are so desperate to get apiece of the real
"Olympic Gold” that they stoop to all sorts of moral
depravity — like city officials from Salt Lake City
purchasing prostitutes for members of the Olympic
Executive Committee to help ‘grease ” their way for
an Olympic site bio’.

Collegiate Games

r %<’

 

 

By Johan Sebastian Kach J‘

What is really funny, though, is how dramatic
the media tries to make the compe tition.
If you've seen the papers recently, then you ,
know about Marion Jones and her "epic struggle ”
to do the "impossible ” - win five gold medals. I
mean the story is laughably cliche’; it's the classic
"arrogant athlete talking big to give the media a
story that they can ﬁll up hundreds of pages I
on. ” There will be features on her childhood, her
trainers, her condition, her chances, her
aspi'ra tions, and her lucra ti've sponsorship deals
and le ts not forge t post—games ca verage including L
articles by her critiques, articles about why she
wins or loses, articles about her chances for the
next Olympic games, articles about whatshe will
do after the games, articles about her various
appearances on Leno, Letterman, and the Rosie
O'Donnell Show, and finally, articles about how
people are ti'ring of the hype surrounding here
that the media itself created
777e O/ympi'cs just aren ’t exciting for Americans g
any longer. Our professional athle tes can who/lop
any of the amateurs around the world — just look
at what NBA inclusion has done to Olympic
basketball. And with even ts such as I4/omens
Weigh t Lifting, Ping-Pong, and Synchronized 30
Swimming, the Olympics have seemingly taken a
li'ttle of the exc/usi'veness out of the whole ordeal
I mean giving away a thousand medals per session
takes away from having one. ,,
Thus, I propose that a new sort of in terna ti'ona/
form of compe ti'ti'on to be started lhese games
would go back to the roots of the original Olympic *5
games and focus on the two most important I‘
aspects: partying and impressing women.

1. Beirut - Tossing Ping Pong balls into beer filled cups to impress women
2. Synchronized Funk Getting On - Bumping and grinding against underclassmen whom are still 3

impressed by your alcohol acquisitioning talen ts

3. 50- Yard Po-Po Dash - Running from the cops who saw you relieving your beer— filled-b/adder

on my Hall

4. Projectile Vomit Distance Hurl - Seeing who can up-chuck the farthest

*The existence of “Fire-Faker” is denied by the administration. High ranking officials are holding to the claim that what happened was strictly due ‘to the presence of 21 fallen Navy weather balloon and that there were no lights seen over “Acre 54” of the W&L campus.

‘P

   
 

2’

