>.. -x

the ‘ﬂing-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

can l.lE1R~\R‘/ 
LEE umvsznsn-y
3'! 20450

SPZBZMJ

VOLUME 103, No. 8

Band who gave us
“Send Me On My Way”
to rock the Pavilion
for Homecoming

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Rusted Root, a band most students re-
member from their high school days, will
bring their bongos to the Pavilion for this
year’s Homecoming concert.

The Student Activities Board signed the
band at the beginning of September, but
word of the act only recently spread around
campus.

“A lot of people on the Board wanted
Rusted Root last year, but it never worked
out,” said SAB President Crystal Simpson.
“It promises to be a fun show that will ap-
peal to a broad range of students.”

Simpson said Rusted Root came from a
short list of possible acts, including the
Meters and George Clinton and the P-Funk
All-Stars. Rusted Root’s schedule best al-
lowed them to make the Friday, Oct. 20 show.
The band’s performance will cost SAB
$28,000.

Gray Borden, who handles operations for
the SAB, said he has heard only good
things about the band’s concert perfor-
mance.

“People who’ve seen them before said

   

Rusted Root to bring some
infectious groove to Lex

SoME COOL STREET KIDS. Pittsburgh-based Rusted Root is the band that
will play the Homecoming concert on Friday," October 20.

it’s a great show to see and a lot of fun,”
Borden said. “I think this is the best band
we could’ve gotten and we’ve had a real
positive response on campus already.”

Rusted Root blared through most stu-
dents’ stereos a few years ago, speciﬁcally
when their album When I Woke went plati-
num in 1996. Most will remember songs
like “Ecstasy,” “Martyr,” “Drum Trip” and
“Send Me On My Way.”

“I’m pumped because I saw them in
Memphis two years ago and tl1ere’s a real
energetic element in their music,” said
freshman Jeremy Roberts. “It’s an eclectic
mix of music styles with a lot of good
rhythms.”

Rusted Root has opened for bands like
The Grateful Dead, Santana, Sting and The
Dave Matthews Band. They also per-
formed as part of the first Furthur Festival
in 1997. Rusted Root began playing clubs
around Pittsburgh in 1990. The band re-
leased its first independent CD, Cruel Sun,
in 1990 and sold 110,000 copies. Mercury
Records signed the group in 1994.

Rusted Root has perfonned on both
Conan O’Brien and David Letterman.

The band will stop at Ball State Univer-
sity in Muncie, Ind. the Wednesday be-
fore the show and will travel to Dickinson
College in Carlisle, Penn. the next day.

The band will bring their own opening
act, Daniel Cage, to the show.

Simpson said tickets will go on sale Oct.
9 at $14 for students and $18 for the gen-
eral public.

    
   

photo courtesy of Mercury Records

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450’

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

2

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

TE AMo. Chart-topping South American band Solazo introduces a medley of classical and contemporary Spanish
music to students as part of the concert series sponsored by the Office of International Education.

Latin band performs in Lee Chapel

The first installment in

an international series

of performing artists
By Matthew McDerrnott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Over the years Lee Chapel has seen its
share of orientation programs, informational
meetings, and recruiting sessions. Friday
night, however, it hosted an event that sent
audience members dancing in the aisles: a hit

Latin group with Afro-Cuban rhythms and -

Andean instruments.

Solazo was the first of four groups to be
presented by the International Performing
Arts Series, a program sponsored by the Paul
and Pauline Fund for the Preforrning Arts and
the Washington and Lee Office of Intema—
tional Education.

A popular South American band, Solazo
played 16 numbers, mixing contemporary Latin

harmel Two: ready for prime time

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Charmel Two is about to launch program-
ming that‘ may become a “must-see” in stu-
dent households. Washington and Lee’s tele-
vision station will soon host a political de-
bate show, a live call-in talk show, and a pos-
sible W&L version of Survivor.

Among the first of the new shows to air on
Channel Two will be the debate show, The
Firing Line.

Each episode will consist of four panelists
(W&L students, faculty and local community
members), said freshmen Joel Pepera and John
Heath, co-producers of the show.

Panelists on the forum will discuss issues
affecting W&L students, such as drinking,
the fraternity scene, and the honor code.

The show will also cover national political
issues of student interest.

“We are planning on airing the show on
October 3,” said Heath.

The producers will broadcast the show
monthly at first, then possibly more often as
the year progresses. They also have plans for
a special election night edition of The Firing
Line.

“I came up with the idea for this show be-
cause W&L has such a political campus,”
Pepera said. “There are a lot of people here
with a lot of different views, and I thought
there would be room here for a show like that.”

According to Heath, an assistant execu-
tive director of the station, a live call-in show
similar to Larry King Live is in the works, as
is a movie preview show similar to Coming
Attractions.

“We have also had a lot of interest in a
W&L version of Survivor,” Heath said. “We
will most likely work on that show over Spring
Break with five girls and five guys in a cabin
alone in West Virginia.”

“Firing Line is a good idea,” said Pro-
fessor Robert de Maria, Channel Two ad-
visor. “The debate should show our stu-
dents’ intelligence.”

Another possibility is a dating game
show. According to Heath, Channel Two
formerly had a show of this type but dis-
continued it in past years. The station di-
rectors feel this type of show would still
raise student interest.

Heath said that they decided to add the
new programming this year “because we
knew we had the resource out there with

the TV station. It is a great opportunity to
reach both the W&L and Lexington com-
munities with quality programming on the
airwaves.”

“Theistudents have the time and energy,”
said de Maria. “They know how to do it,
how to go for it.”

While producers have scheduled The Fir-
ing Line to air in early October, the other
shows will most likely not begin until later in
the year. The producers are waiting to ﬁnd
more student help and to establish the show
guidelines.

Directors at Channel Two encourage any
and all students to come to them with ideas
for programming or to help in any aspect of
producing the shows. .

Channel Two’s shows will continue “as
long as people come up with ideas and
there’s enthusiasm,” said de Maria. When
“someone comes to me with enthusiasm,
I’m not going to rain on their parade.”

“The great thing about this station is that
you do not have to be a journalism major,”
said Heath. “You just have to be willing to
work hard and let the creative process ﬂow.”
It’s really easy here to make your dream a
reality.”

 

hits with original compositions.

At times junior Lisa Lin translated for band
members as band members explained their
songs to the audience in Spanish.

“It was a great experience,” said Lin.
“Though I didn’t know sometimes when they
wanted me to translate and when they would
start playing their music right after speaking.”

Solazo’s cultural diversity is reﬂected in
its distinctly—painted instruments, which in-
cluded an armadillo—shel1 mandolin, ram horns,
and a wide variety of precussioii instruments
with no American equivalent ._

The group’s lead singer and guitarist, Pepe
Aranda, is a native of Chile now residing in
Ecuador, where he twice placed second in the
country’s National Competition for
Songwriters. His musical training dates back
to his induction into a music conservatory
when he was seven years old.

Fellow Chileans on the band include Charry
Garcia (drums, precussion) and Kike Rodriguez
(vocals, guitar).

Argentinean Miquel Benitez, another vo-

   

‘calist, is the group’s primary bassist.

The newest member of the band, Vladrnir
Espinoza, hails from Cuba and played most of
the precussion instruments.

Before joining Solazo, all of its members
had successful musical careers in South
American bands as renowned as Barro and
Altiplano, both of which released songs that
stayed high on South American MTV’s mu-
sic charts.

Of all the Latin bands considered for this
year, Solazo “was the most exciting group we
heard,” said William Klingelhofer, Director of
International Education, who emceed the
event. “Solazo represents the best of original
and classical music."

Solazo held a salsa dance workshop in
Doremus Gymnasium before their evening
preformance.

The International Performing Arts Series’s
next presentation will be ritual Korean Bud-
dhist song and dance, “The Sound of Ectasy
and Nectar of Enlightenment,” held at Lee
Chapel on October 26.

(J11: Ring-tum lﬂlri

September 25, 2000

 

   
  

Going away to sc ever felt

- so much like

 

 

      

TIPAGE2

@112 King-tum lﬂhi

NEWS  

 

Mehul Srivastava’s

World Report

Life outside the W&L Bubble

 MI6 Headquarters targeted by terrorists
9 A This Thursday a “small” missile was ﬁred at MI6 head-
 quarters in the heart of London. The attack caused minor
,.-structural damage to a building made famous by being
._..__blown up in the recent James Bond movie. Although no
,. casualties were reported, the psychological damage caused
._ by the missile attack was tremendous.
_ g M16 is the British equivalent of the CIA, being respon-
 sible for foreign intelligence, and it closely in following
 _,the activities of terrorist organizations.
The MI6 building is supposed be one of the most
secure buildings in the United Kingdom, but this attack
._, shows how vulnerable the world still is to the attacks of
K _.terrorists.
_ Most of the building is underground, for protection
 from just this kind of attack. The government refused to
 lay the blame on any speciﬁc group, since no one has
_;come forward as of yet to claim responsibility for the at-
. , tack.
The Irish Republican Army is currently observing a
.. ‘ceaseﬁre, and most of the bomb attacks in Britain recently
 have been blamed on splinter groups that are opposed to
i_ ;.,the peace process.
_ Investigations have yet to advance beyond recover-
”._ing a small piece of the missile. It has been identiﬁed as a
.Russian anti-tank device called the RPG MK 22, which is
 ‘capable of penetrating concrete up to a meter thick.
I  In the last decade, Irish paramilitary groups have
I _*launched several bold attacks, including a mortar attack
1 ,_on the Prime Minister’s residence.
'  This is another embarrassing incident for an agency
A still finding it difﬁcult to live down the mislaid laptop
[loaded with sensitive information that was left in a taxi by
/gpadriinken ofﬁcial.

1: Twins to be seperated

' I A major moral, ethical and legal issue was laid to rest,

I ’ amidst controversy, by three British judges this week.
The Siamese twins born conjoined at the waist, Mary
and Jody, were the subject of major debate in Britain, when
1 doctors announced that only one of them would have any
chances of survival, and that after separation the other
 would die. The parents had appealed to the courts to get
‘ .' an injunction to stop the seperation, wanting, in their

:: own words, things to be left to God.

The babies are joined at the lower abdomen, and share
7, ‘ a heart and a pair of lungs. Their legs are at right angles to
77each other. Mary is totally dependent on Jodie, and as per
‘« ‘ the judgement will be separated and die. The parents had
 traveled from the Mediterranean to help their children have

a safer delivery, and have so far remained unnamed.

They now face a uphill struggle in an effort to overturn

 the recent verdict.

The three judges who debated this have been at the

‘ ‘center of public scrutiny over their decision. One even
 admitted to having had sleepless nights. They summa-
rized it best with “Say yes, and you murder Mary, say no

‘ land you murder Jodie.”

The medical question remains unresolved, with experts
 . ‘doubting that even with the experiment Jodie will have a

healthy life.

In addition, the parents have said they will appeal the
‘«='-decision. They have been offered sanctuary at specialist
1 "centers in Italy by the Vatican, as an ethical alternative.
"1 But they have yet to make up their minds.

‘Asia Floods

More than 300 people have died and millions were left
stranded by ﬂooding in India, Vietnam, and other parts of
1 Asia. In some of the worst ﬂooding this year, rescue op-
erations are still being hindered by bad weather, and, as

4’ the Red Cross puts it, “expenses.”

The Indian state of West Bengal is badly hit, with over
 168 deaths (by officials) and an almost complete break-
' ‘(down of communications. Nearly 15 million people are
stranded there, and the sheer numbers have stopped re-
1'” lief operations from having much effect.

Coming at the end of the monsoons, dams are close to
 ‘bursting, and have been forced to release water, adding
‘A further misery.

The Chief Minister of Bengal has appealed for help
f from the army to help distribute supplies. But already sto-

'ries of chaos and looting have started trickling in. Last
year, the neighboring state of Orissa was devastated by

‘,

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
     

ﬂoods, leaving over one thousand dead and close to 18
million people homeless.

Although the rain waters have started to recede, more
deaths are likely from disease and hunger.

In Vietnam, 66 people are dead, mostly children, in the
Mekong delta, washed away by the ﬂood waters, now
receding.

Korea and Cambodia are just as badly hit by typhoons.

In an almost predictable pattern, every year ﬂoods hit
these regions, and the governments learn little from the
mistakes of previous years, when botched rescue opera-
tions and also mismanaged supplies have lead to more
deaths.

Terrorist Manual

In an interesting development in the struggle against
terrorism, United States ofﬁcials have conﬁrmed that they
have in their possesion a manual distributed by Osama
Bin Laden. The book, called the Jihad encyclopaedia, has
been in distribution for quite a long time, first discovered
by the CIA ofﬁcer in Afghanistan.

The book was allegedly recovered from the militants
who have been sentenced in Jordan recently for planning
millennium attacks. Ofﬁcials downplay the signiﬁcance of
the book, saying it is not very accurate, and that more
potent information is available on the Internet.

Now available on CD-ROM, the encylopedia provides
step by step information on how to assemble bombs, re-
mote contolled detonators, and even exploding cigarettes.

Bomb experts who have looked at the book say it is
dangerous stuff and accurate as well. It also includes ad-
vice on creating diversions, and how to create a support
group for yourself in Islamic nations.

Most surprisingly, it written for people with minimal
skills, almost semi—literates.

This seems to be the latest step by Osama Bin Laden to
launch attacks on the US (as he has done in the past with
the bomb attacks on US embassies in Africa).

The Saudi billionaire, now living in exile in Afghani-
stan, has declared Jihad (holy war) against India, the US
and other allies of these countries. By distributing this
book, he can reach people and teach them the methods of
terrorism without actually coming in contact with them.

Aung San Sku Kyi Faces More Restrictions

The winner of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize and winner of
the elections in Burma, Aung San Syu kyi had her house
arrest lifted last month, but has found to her dismay that
the ruling military government (the Junta) will not allow
her to travel out of the city.

As she tried to board a train out of Yangon, the capital
of Burma, she was told that the tickets were sold out. As
she waited for the next train, the waiting room was closed
off, and her supporters were kept watch over by police
and army ofﬁcers. In her 12 hour wait, she was made to
miss 4 trains before she headed home. Last week, her car
was stopped on the road as she attempted to leave the
city.

In 1990 she won the democratic elections in Burma, but
the military government has refused to honor the results,
and she has been kept under house arrest for long periods
of time. She was refused permission to meet her husband
as he was undergoing medical treatment, and journalists
are rarely if ever allowed to meet her alone.

Oil Relief Program Announced by Clinton

In an unprecedented move, United States President
Bill Clinton has announced a $400 million aid program to
help families meet increased heating costs this winter;
these costs are a result of the high petroleum prices in the
international market.

He also directed the Energy Secretary to release 30
million barrels of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve to attempt to push down the high cost of petro-
leum.‘

This comes a week after protestors shut down Britain
due to the high cost of petroleum, and as the protests
spread to continental Europe, pressure has increased on
the OPEC countries to hike up the production of petro-
leum , which they refuse to do as lower petrol prices in the
past have caused their oil-bloated economies to collapse.

This is expected to be one of the most expensive win-
ters ever as heating costs will rise in proportion to this
increase in fuel cost.

   
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
  

  

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

JUMP, J IVE, AND WAIL: Andrew McIntyre, a musician who has performed with the Wailers, entertains

the crowd with a mixture of reggae and rock and roll. McIntyre was invited to perform as part of

the Student Association for International Learning’s International World Music Festival, held in
the parking lot in front of Doremus Gymnasium Saturday. Also on stage Saturday were Cocktail
Mystic, an African Jazz-Rock band headed by Rigo Masiala, and the Brazilian band Djambi, a
band sharing McIntyre’s experience of playing with Bob Marley’s world-famous band.

-‘mail. General Notes to..&,
II

 

W&L Included in “The Hidden Ivies”

Washington and Lee University is one of 30 colleges
and universities included in a book titled The Hidden
Ivies. The book is written by college consultants Howard
Greene and Matthew Greene and published by Cliff Street
Brooks, an imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers.

The authors write, “The Hidden Ivies focuses on lib-
eral arts colleges and universities that are of comparable
quality to the Ivies. Based on surveys and interviews
with students as well as college presidents, deans of
faculty, and other administrators, The Hidden Ivies pre-
sents an inside perspective on thirty leading institutions
of exceptional merit. These colleges and universities pro-
vide an outstanding educational experience for the gifted

college-bound student and provide the foundation for life
after graduation.” Some of the other schools joining W&L
in the publication are Amherst College,Davidson College,
Emory University, Rice University, Swarthmore College,
Vanderbilt University and Washington University.

Guest speakers hold evening lectures

Dr. Helen Cooper, of University College, Oxford, gave
“Chaucer: A Sescentenary (600th Anniversary) Lecture,”
in N orthen Auditorium on the 20th of September. Cooper
is president of the New Chaucer Society.

Dr. Danuta Shanzer, professor of classics and director
of the Medieval Studies Program at Cornell University,
gave a lecture “Martyrdom” in Northern Auditorium on
the 21st of September. Courtesy W&L website.

Corrections. . .

Colonel Eric Hutchings graduated from VMI in 1977.
Professor Wilson is an Assistant Professor.
Quincy Springs and Gretchen Tenzca are juniors.

      
     
 
 

The Stonewall Jackson House is hiring
part-time weekend guide/shop staff.
Individuals must enjoy working with the
public, possess excellent communication
skills and be able to convey historical and
biographical information. Applications
available at
8 E. Washington St., Lexington.

    

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

   
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  

   

 

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

Oﬂhr itiing-tum iﬂhi

PAGE 3

EC power too
concentrated  

Last week the Executive Committee of the Student Body
sent out a campus notice, asking organizations that want
funding to submit forms, and reminding them of the meet-
ings on Tuesday and Wednesday. Inevitably, some groups
will get what they wanted, and others will not. From what
I can tell, this
process is ar-
duous for all
i n v o l v e d .
This is no fault
of the EC; they are merely fulﬁlling the role gradually thrust
upon them over the years. Unforttmately, this undemo-
cratic role has gone on for too long.

The EC was created in the earlier part of the century to
administer our time-honored and much-debated honor sys-
tem. Recent cries of injustice aside, they do a ﬁne job of
this. The secretive, somewhat autocratic nature of the body
is perfectly suited for such onerous tasks as investigating
and determining what is an honor violation. However, this
same structure works miserably for budget determinations.

Only ten members, plus three ofﬁcers sit on the EC.
This small size makes it naturally unrepresentative of the
student body. How can EC members be completely unbi-
ased against certain organizations requesting funding?
They can’t, of course, because they are human. To solve
this problem, a much larger body is needed.

Many universities similar to W&L, including Vanderbilt
and Wake Forest, use student legislatures to decide fund-
ing for organizations. Wake employs a one representative
for every ﬁfty students ratio. Vanderbilt, which also has a
strong honor code, has an Honor Council and separate
Budget Committee to decide appropriations issues. At
Wake, the student legislature is further divided into com-
mittees that are in charge of handling funding for particu-
lar types of organizations, with the full body having the
ﬁnal vote. W&L could adopt a similar system, or even a
simpler one, and allow more students to have a say in how
much money their organizations receive, to say nothing
of the increased spirit that old—fashioned political combat
generates.

The legendary W&L apathy towards student govern-
ment is not the reason for the EC’s dominance, but rather
a result. More students would give a damn about student
government if they had more chance to be involved, or
even know somebody who does. Think for a second. . .
When was the last time you saw one of your EC Reps? If
you are fortunate enough to know one of them person-
ally (or even know who yours are), I doubt you spend
time talking about how much money Contact gets this
year. The pretentious, intimidating presentation that all
W&L freshmen are forced to endure in order to under-
stand the importance of the honor system creates this
aura of untouchability towards the EC. This works ﬁne
for the honor system, but fails miserably for everything
else. Unfortrmately, this apathy, a product of EC near
hegemony, will probably prevent anything serious from
being done.

uote of the weelc

(C

Students will prosti-
tute themselves for
almost anything.

— Anonymous professor on
extra credit 7 7

@112 ﬁling tum lﬂlri

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianca
Emily Barnes
Max Smith
Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Jessica Jones
Michael Crittenden
Bryan Early

News Editor
Assistant News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Contributing Editors

last Word Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Pjjjublications Board elects the Executive Editor, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
' E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

photo by Emily Barnes! Executive Editor

IT’S A BEAUTIFUL DAY. . . freshman Miri Lim studies on the Front Lawn last Thursday, the

first official day of fall.

EC upholds honor at W&L

To the common lament, “It’s not fair,” my Dad used to
say to me, “If you multiply an even number and an even
number, what do you get? An even number. If you multiply
an odd number and even number you get an even number.
Doesn’t seem fair to the odd num-

and dry set of standards, (“don’t lie, cheat, or steal”), an
equally unwavering punishment should exist. Granted, there
are differences in severity between plagiarism and sharing
D-hall meals. However, for a tradition as time-honored and

life-dictating as the honor system, the

bers, but I guess there’s nothing
they can do about it.” (Note that
the paternal pcominess is exponen-
tially increased by the fact he’s an
accounting professor.)

But he’s right. Life isn’t fair sometimes. And yet I think
everything works out for the best. Everything comes full
circle and it all evens out in the end. No system in the
entire world can account for every fallacy in the human
condition. Including our honor code.

For a system to have lasted this long, it must be doing
something right. We continue to leave our bookbags unat-
tended, laptops in our carrells, and doors unlocked. In-
deed, part of the honor system’s effectiveness might re-
side in a certain fear of punishment. But for the most part,
it simply relies heavily on trust. The professors trust we
will not crack open a text book during a take home exam, we
trust our fellow students to not claim your walkman as
their own if seen lying on the colonade. But most impor-
tantly, trust that the honor system will work.

Such a heavy burden is placed upon the honor system
that it is only ﬁtting and necessary that a strict punishment
will result from deviating from it. Furthermore, for such a cut

  

consequence should not be adjusted
to ﬁt the crime. This detracts from the
honor system’s power and would likely
result in a less “honorable” and trust-
worthy environment.

Admittedly, the executive committee does hold an in-
credible block of power, in that they can change a student’s
entire life just by saying “guilty.” However, until King
Solomon enrolls, the executive committee will continue
to limit their punishments to expulsion. They are not cast-
ing judgement on a student’s character, but on whether
or not he or she strayed from the no lying, cheating, or

stealing code. This does not require subjectivity, but
rather, a rudimentary understanding of what the honor
system entails.

Washington and Lee brims with tradition, whether it is
tailgating, rush, or Fancy Dress. The honor system sur-
passes all of these in its strength and consequence. For it
to alter in any way would mean a change in the entire
school atmosphere. It is a fair system, and in the long run,
it contributes largely to the schools appeal, character
strength of the student body, and the overall sense of
trust built amongst its community.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Student clarifies what the
Constitution upholds

DearEditor,

Let me begin by saying that I am relatively liberal in my
political beliefs. However. I respect anyone for what they
believe, given that they believe it for sound reasons and
can back it up with some semblance of decent support.
Such is the spirit of any good debate. However, in reading
Brett Kirwan’s editorial “It's time to secede” in last week’s
paper, I was given absolutely no reason to respect his hyper-
conservative viewpoint.

In case you missed this gem of an editorial, Kirwan made
the arguement that due to the provisions of the Constitu-
tion, the federal government has virtually no right to make
any laws at all. He writes, “Article 1, Section 8 of the Consti-
tution, explicitly states the 17 powers of Congress and the
Tenth Amendment goes on to say that, without exception,
the federal government may do nothing else." On top of
that he claims “it is unconstitutional” for the government
“to set a speed limit, regulate greenhouse gas emissions. .
. or punish murders, kidnappers, or car thieves.”

TALKback:

 

“Men’s weightlifting, because it's
funny to watch them try to walk
up to the event.”

-Ann Tompkins ‘04

    

“I like the archery, because the
Americans never win."

To anyone who has even read the Constitution,
the so—called “elastic clause,” (which ironically comes
from the very section that Kirwan cites) explicitly
states that beyond the 17 enumerated powers, the gov-
ernment may make any law which it deems “necessary
and proper.” Over the years, this clause has invariably
been interpreted as one which allows the government
to pass a wide variety of laws, even such radically
oppressive measures as the controversial bans on mur-
der and car theft that Kirwan was so quick to point out.

Despite my opposition to the rest of his article, there
is one point he makes on whihc I support him fully. He
suggests that “Texas and Louisiana should be popu-
lated by people committed to individual liberties and
then declare itself to be the independent nation of
Texiana,” and goes on to say that “secession may be
our only option.” To that, I respond with resounding
approval—let all those who feel that the complete ab-
sence of laws is the best form of government go off to
Texianarachy” and leave the rest of us here, imprisoned
in our harsh world of injustice and tyrarmy.

Perhaps we will all be the better for it.

Sincerely,
K.C. Schaefer ’04

 

By Christine Metzger

As a present for being a senior and a wonderful girl in
general, I was blessed with the privilege of taking an 8:00
physics class this term. Yes, 8 in the morning; no, that’s not
supposed to happen to seniors; yes, I do feel sorry for my-
self. Major requirement, scheduling conﬂict, etc, etc. I haven’t
had an 8:00 class since freshman year, when I actually
thought it sounded like large amounts of fun to get out bed
at 7:55 four times a week and sprint to Tucker for a little bit of
francais action, spilling coffee on myself the whole way.
How much that term taught me —I swore off any A hour
class for the rest of time. Not a problem since my department
doesn’t start cooking till 9. I can do 9. Eight hurts. Like the
raven, I swore, Nevermore.

Or so I thought. .

Eight o’clock classes blow without exception. One of the
most horrible things about them is that they present you
with the reality that people actually function at that hour.
Not only do they function but they manage to get up, run,
shower, spackle their faces with makeup, curl their hair, and get
to class, looking blissed out and refreshed. Most days, I can
manage getting up. Some days showering happens, but hey,
that’s why God invented deodorant.

In my years away from A hour and my year away from
W&L entirely, I also forgot how e ssively well—groomed
you all are. Sure, in any eight o’cl A class, there’s the requi-
site boy or two with frightening bedhead hair. (Not to be
confused with the boys who go for “that look” on purpose.)
If you’re lucky sometimes you can spot a girl or two still
wearing the sorority girl sex pants from the night before,
smelling like she slept in a keg. Which she might have done.

As a whole though, W&L students take exceptional care
to make sure they are just so. Not necessarily well-dressed
or, gasp, even stylish because obviously fashion sense and
style have no part in the reality of the Bubble. We were a
little late with the capri phenomenon, although big hoops
are certainly taking off in a big way. W&L is to Paris and
New York as Aristocrap is to Skyy vodka. “But I like Aristo-
crat,” you protest. The things we wear here are so bland,
kind of crappy, and don’t leave you wanting for more. (W &L
fashion, unlike the ‘Crat, does not come cheap, as fat cats at
J .Crew, Banana Republic, and Abercrombie could attest to.)

Okay, the small town nature of this university doesn’t
exactly foster a high—paced, eccentric designer lifestyle. We
areunlikeany otheruniversityinthatlseegirlseverymomingin
my physics class or on their way to another A hour of fun
wearing the whole W&L girl kit pearls, makeup, hairdone. Who
has time for that? Have you sold your soul to ﬁt that extra hour
a day into your schedule?

You’ve probably guessed by now I don’t really swing
with the idea of typical W&L “fashion,” mainly because I’ d
kill myself from boredom, but also because I don’t really see
the point. I try to wear real clothes (i.e., not my pajamas)
since I am trying to be a bit more of an adult these days. I
can’t understand though why you’d want to pop on some-
thing that makes you look 35. I do have a bad unfashionable
habit of strolling around campus after a geology ﬁeld lab.
covered in mud and ticks, with various bits of vegetative
debris in my hair. How hot is that? Yeah, come sit next to me
in class, baby.

But we weren’t talking about my minor imperfections.
Aside from the constant dressed—to-irnpress atmosphere, a
lot of you out there are missing the boat completely with
regards to fashion. Here’s a small amount of advice:

1. Backless shirts on the Hill in broad daylight...Just say
no, girls. You may be a stone fox (or you may not, as the case
may be) but please save it for a sweaty frat basement. It’s
more than a little alarming to see you tooting around the Co-
op with your spine on display. (“But I don’t have a spine!”
Don’t worry, we know.)

2. Capri pants...They may be in style but they are not, re-
peat not, for everyone.

3. Black pants with white shoes of any sort...come on, you
know this is wrong, who are you trying to fool?

4. (For the gents) Black socks with running shoes: Please.
Stop.

I don’t have much to say about the boys at this school
(never do) because they seem pretty attached to the mo-
nopoly they have on the plaid shirt-khaki business. I’m not
going to interrupt their groove thang because most boys
simply don’t know any better. (And you Southern boys
who try to be “wacky” by wearing pink or plaid pants, woo-
hoo, watch out!) Having lived in a country last year where
many men dressed in a stylish way that most Americans
woirld call “effeminate,” probably using more colorful words,
I know there is hope for men to achieve fashion nirvana. I
think, however, W&L boys are not the Chosen people.

I salute those of you out there with proper style. You do
exist. People who work their clothes, who look dishy with-
out looking like a suumpet, who have a wicked, irmate fash-
ion passion. Thankfully several of them are among my dear-
est friends. You give me hope.

  What is your, favorite Olympic event and why?

me of Beirut.”
-Micah Tolrnan ‘02

 

“Table tennis, because it reminds

—Tarntni Olubunrni ‘O2

 

 

“Gyrrmastics, because I like to see
little 12-year old children exploited
and starved for my viewing pleasure.”
—Brian Tinklepaugh ‘O3

 

 

O

Glitz ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

PINION

  

 

      

  

 

 

 

 

PAGE4 SEPTEMBER 25, 2000 it
M d ’ ' ' M k’ 11
0 eration 111 moderation, please a lng your CO ege 

Let me preface all of this by .
saying, “Why yes indeed, I am
a Marx—loving, Che Guevara e d 11 C  0 n p a y
adoring, New Deal—supporting 1
damn commie pinko.” (And a .
j—school major to boot!) Ipre— Don’t let Democrats diS_ The income tax is, in essence, a penalty on
fer tothinkofmyselfas simply success. The harder one works and the more
liberal, but I respond to those tract you from keeping money one earns, the more of one’s wealth is _
terms as well, In all honesty, 1 taken away. What incentive is there to be in- ’
amnot particularly po1itical_I your Inoney novative and entrepreneurial if one can an-
would never stay in on a Fri- ticipate no reward but a hefty tax bill and the
day night simply to watch a Much criticism has been directed at Governor loss of one’s estate upon one’s death? You’re
debate, nor do 1 think the George Bush throughout the campaign for his sup- right, none. What’s more, since we have our
minute—to—minute popularity posed lack of substance. In fact, another writer entire working lives ahead of us, we have -
updates by pollsters have any has suggested on this very page that only people unique incentive to vote for a candidate who’
redeeming intellectual value, interested in peisonality will vote for the Gover— will allow us to keep our money.
Yet when it comes down to nor. Unfortmately, this ignores two important Apart from the individual reasons, the
convention day, you can be points. Governor’s tax cut just makes good economic
sure I will be voting because it o . . . . V o l First, substance, or speciﬁcity, has no intrin- sense. Following the injection of capital into the
is my dutylwanttoknow that 1 D O O o . sic value. No matter how many volumes of economy, personal savings will increase, con-
Ihad my Say Concerning my ‘ O O O O policy minutiae Al Gore sumer spending will in-
rights, my society and my fu- o o o o . turns out, his ideas are  of the  crease, businesses will have
me, ' ‘ . - still the repudiated big- to hire more people to meet

This summer 1 actually - at government giveaways Brat T- Ki1'W3I1 04 the demand, and the
broke down and watched the of the old left. Icould pro- economy will grow at an
Republican convention with pose a very detailed, specific plan to convert even faster rate than it does today. Some econo-
some mutual liberal friends, we ‘ _ W&L into a combination pinball machine fac— mists have predicted that the economy will double
made popcorn, gﬂhbeddi-inks ' F c ' tory/chia pet farm. The fact that I presented a in just 15 years, resulting in more revenue for the
and proceeded to laugh our- ‘.1: ,2 “specific” plan chock full of “substance” federal government. Also, let us not forget that
selves silly at the lovefest that or 3! -,_ doesn’t make it a good idea. this tax cut lowers the marginal rate in every tax
was the convention, This point « Secondly, when it comes to the issues, the good bracket. Contrary to Al Gore’s whiny attempts at
has be reiterated by both con. , ‘- governor, regardless of what the liberal media may class warfare, this isn’t just a tax cut for the rich.
servative and liberal pundits h h ' yo. _ M do _ tell us, is beating the esteemed Vice—Perpetrator The middle 20 percent income level will have their
many times since then_ Much ‘"" “ ' like a Singaporean vandal. Nevertheless, one is- tax burden reduced by roughly 25 percent. Infact,
to my chagrin, the Democratic sue is going to win the election for Dubya. Gov. six million more Americans will pay no taxes at all
convention was justas tenible, more like the high school prom hon Cohha Affair. heS_ Bush’s proposed across—the-board tax cut is also following the implementation of Gov. Bush’s plan. :1
complete with the Clinton cir— court elections. Elections have Our government is a two- Call me idealistic, but I an excellent reason rnr all er n5 5°°n‘t°‘be em‘ New new does nns Slrnple Plan that trusts
cus. The only moment I was less to do with running the party system, so why the hell refuse to give up my belief that Pleyed to Vote for nlrn- Arnerlcans Wnnrnelr°Wnnl°neYc°n1Paret°Al
truly impressed with was country than running a public oahat We tell the two parties’ my Vote Coums_ And I do bo_ It’s really as simple as this: vote for George G0re’s “targeted tax cuts?” The man who in-
Caroline Kennedy relations campaign Instead of Candidates apart? Why have lieve that more are people out Bush and have more of your hard—earned money vented the Internet has proposed tax credits g
schlossberg’s speech (why focusing on the is sues, each pohhoal oloohohs if nothing is there who would be better oah_ in your pocket at the end of every year. Currently designed to promote behavior he deems accept.
is she not the Democratic can— party and each candidate is try— political didates for president, who will the rederal g0V€1“I1m€I1t is pI’iCe—gouging like the able. If you or your family does what Al Gore
didate? She had more sense ing to seem I anymore? not be Simply ﬁgurohoads or oil companies have never dreamed of. With ev- wants, then he’ll give you your money back.
and presence in her speech as moderate   At least robots programmed to be the ery extra tax dollar the federal government It’s a disgusting imitation of the classic carrot-
than the entire convention as possible_ Nader and most pobulah I Shudder to takes, it is stealing from the American people. on—the—stick. The last thing we should settle for "
combined) lt is as if the H€2Ih€I' McDonald 01 Buchanan think that my rights’ ouhuro’ The government is not a corporation. It is the government using our own money as a

After both conventions and two parties """"""“""“"“‘“““ h a y 6 legal system, tax money, edu_ shouldn’t be looking to turn a “profit” and the bribe to get us to attend the proper schools or
after the past few months of are morphing into one another. added some color to the cam- cation, and everything else we anrlclpaled Surplus snenld net be Vlewed as re “Se the Preper cnlldcare
mudslinging campaigns and Bush’s talk on Oprah was like baigh. They are both crazy’ but take for gmmod will be mah_ such. The government should seek to operate Come November, the choice should really be h
the political version of stupid Clinton’s stint on MTV. G01-e’s right now [would oohsidor Vot_ aged by Someone who wants at a minimum cost and therefore burden its citi- easy. Make your college education worth an
pet tricks, I am left with a very ability to raise money out of mg for Nader just because I do the job because he has no Zens as llnle as Pesslble even blgger Pay cneck- Vere rer 3 lax enr-
blad taste in my mouth. The Buddhist nuns and then dodge not want my vote going to. original ideas and is the
e ections get more boring each all consequences is just about wards nothin _which is what most moderate — not be- ,' , °
Year — they 3130‘ get P108133‘ 35 Convincing 38 Reagan’s Ifeel like I arei voting for ifl go cause he is the most capable W, lte fol the  l‘ ‘
sively less like elections and claim he knew nothing about the with one of the standard par- candidate.

V
TIJITIIJNFIP-l£tN[lNl3 *
Wh ' TIAA CREF th
y I In 0 9
#1 choice nationwide. ,

  
   

"WIN A TRIP

  

  

  
    
   

 

     
 

 

 

 

  
   

The TIAA—CREF
Advantage.

 

    
 
 

  
 
   
 

  

   
 
   
   

FOR TWO TO _»'.%l .,lTHElla?NE?t,H , ND, SHQ
’.l-'.,‘l*_»«-l1-_7«.»::_-.» :igt=:f-£iRsoNy,.s1.‘- , .. .-  I - ‘- .
A F R I CA    §’»*‘ltLE><'~<=wlr<>rsr,,lvmusoll 
Thls Year rrle Cast or Ml V ,5 I V _ _ _ _ _ Yea" '1esrulyaarnut,employeesatetltitzatlnrant:
’The Real World’ went to Africa.  i_    li.'5|‘.'4.1l|'_ll-||5l.|ll.ltUll1>f|t|‘a'3Jl.L||'l|f)Ll lu HAA t_'|<‘.l-.'*.
Now you gun foo!  Mqtioljes  ’::_‘}UIl\'Ik  .- ' 5 I AM for gnarl I1:-ar.nn¢.:
r Ilmuslcieléil-lN’stRuM6NTS  e.  » ’ .
Q. .  t  l:  ~'    --i  I ~ . I East:lwer*eitir:ati-:r1 ezrinng es rarigeotaxpertly '
ﬁg ‘E & Q fHdf14‘.l§L‘t.l l.Jfl(.l'.s
ﬁg. K I A snlir. ’1lil'-.':l}.' tr" per"nrmanre and except cm! L E
. ” pI:'t«:r'Ia| ‘..I.'rw:;u: OW xpenses h
4 A stronr; corrmitnixjrt to ow rapt:-.*:~_'.:_~s. C _ -
. _ _ . U.‘:‘l(lfTl|.£E(.l
Enter for a chance to win of your - Plm. afull ﬂange nl'l'|P.!|b|P|'eTlf9.1lP‘1l|n{t7I11P(:plOhS P ta t,
' ° _ _ :3 men |0|'lS
local CoUnc'|.Tr°ve| orrlce or or For decades,TIAA-CREFh.J:.l'e|pudlJru'u:-summit: slul 5‘ p
councl llrovel ‘com at over 4} l'I'‘'fJ ramnt -sea r-rrnsr. 1’*'tF rn-1I1tr~,ri'w=~:'tnr—- ‘.
Thus tnp to Africa '5 provlded by an 1 F il0y—'»Litn=:=liJ| retlreme-rt :
/ y Cl1<JL>srIr_.1yuLIrelirarraerizpltmprovider '.s'.:|lT|[..1l(;‘. V 
t'.n with the 2'-ad:-r' TIAA-1' RFF. [
virgin
for-18to3svt.y:;r'::: at[ant[c ‘
No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..
between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void  ' )
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go '
to counciltravel.com. Sweepstakes ends 10/15/00. ‘ I Ensuﬂng the future _ W 1 . 8 0 O . 8 4 2 up 2 7 7 6
lorthuse who shape It. , _ , -~ --—
Travel www.t1aa—crct.01‘g ,
' he _ _ _ I I-nrrnnre rnmplrfr Infnrmntinn nn n:|r<rc|IrI1:~-.prndIIr*~._ plrntr mil 1 Rtiti H4) I Hi, ml '1iI|‘l_1-fJI‘r'I:{l:?"ul[>I't"NpI"tllN'\.Fllﬁild1l'Il‘|n(.Ift‘lllIl[a
C 0 LI n C I  I . I I I  Hp, (7.1 3463_7.5l‘59 V I'.l"frtI'I" lmu int.-rut I I:AA i-ltl-I-Ind:-)i¢1u.'1| .'Inrl Ir:-rtmltiu-1;1| "'>rrui:;~t, Inr r1i<trih|rtr~:tl:1~t' l.{|-'1' nnri TIAA Rrsztl Fatah. a/:lfIi|I|l|I :mIIuiIi:~».. 9 ‘F:'.::¢ Imp.
-, Z   _  ., _ I-‘rr-ulnar?:mr';l:irt‘i¢~rx.iu".,Irar.11i-;triI1.itr'utl1i*Perm-r::IIAnrmitii-;'.r;1rI:Ih!:~;inr1.I:Iymrnprzmrtt.mutuallurid-..mL1Iuiilitaliuviiitgs.:gmt:r'Iir:=l:..-
1 ‘  2 C O U N C I L . ' ‘ Q  ~ _ pl-_ cl”-,'ee’nT5oe". IIAJS .m:l TIM. t'.FtE|' I.lI(' lrmu.ir1n~ L'.u., Nw-1 Yuk.Mii-.-.ui*iu'.umr1<t:.:r1t| .ir1nuiIi<-5. -v 'llft.’\-C'l[|'1lu.»lCcxuu.:1rIy, [SB pron-deb uuslseiv-ta-3.
' x i 1  _ . . .,. ~ 1',  f'.- y lnﬁ-hmihnl pivduuhurp [ml Fppc i’.-mm-Lll hhiyln-N wlm-,,|.h| mo “pl hunt, Hiwwi-ilk-_.,;:rl_.g: ;1',l}(_\11p._,q f‘ﬁEF tjgmg ’ T.

 

 

 

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

W&U

2 {Ring-tum iﬂlit

IFE

PAGE 5

Food: It’s not just for eating

By Ashley Klimp
STAFF WRITER

Students looking for a gift off
the beaten track should check out

.Fun Foods & Accessories on

Washington Street, which boasts
a bevy of interesting products that
are perfect for anyone with a
sense of humor and a hunger for
the unusual.

Though owner Victoria Pannell
and her farrrily lived in Washing-
ton, D.C. for 15 years, she says
that owning Fun Foods &
Acessories in Lexington is a dream
come true. Wanting to spend more
time with their family, she and her
husband toured towns through-
out Virginia and Maryland, search-
ing for the perfect shop location.

Her husband came across Lex-
ington in a newspaper article.

“The search was over,” said
Parmell. Though the,Pannells cur-
rently live in neighboring Bath,
they are hoping to eventually
move to Lexington.

Pannell has searched for food-
stuffs from all over the world to
stock her store. Few are ordered
from catalogs; most of her prod-

‘ ucts have been handpicked from

her travels. “I have a relationship
with 85 percent of the products
here,” said Pannell.

Parmell, an admitted chocoholic,
stocked Fun Foods & Accesso-
ries with an extensive collection
of chocolate—related products, in-
cluding Chocolate Pasta, Choc-
Bath Salts, Chocolate Bar Soap,
and Chocolate Body Frosting.

For those over 21 years of age
the store offers several different
kinds of liquor ﬂavored chocolates
including Margarita, Chambod,
and Crown Royal.

Spicier options include the

By Alexis Yee—Garcia

FEATURES EDITOR

Many students come to college
to get away from home, to expand
their intellectual horizons, and, not
least, to get away from their par-
ents. Some people ﬁnd that family
follows them, however, and for a
longer time than Parent’s Week-
end: those students whose sib-
lings are attending Washington
and Lee as freshmen this year.

When people describe the
W&L community as a family, their
description is more accurate than
they know. Over 15 freshmen stu-
dents have siblings who currently
attend or have recently graduated
from W&L. Many of these family
members concurrently attended
high school, but describe their
joint college experience as some-
thing completely different.

“In high school, our circles of
friends didn’t really overlap and,
short of school-wide functions, we
never really saw each other,” said
Bill Helander, whose sister, Emily,
is a freshman. Bill noted how dif-
ferent this is compared to being at
W&L where “my [fraternity]
brothers even put her on the phone
list.”

Senior Hillary Bryant, whose
sister," Paige is a sophomore this
year, agreed that college creates
different circumstances than high
school.

“I think college fosters more

want to pressure him,” she said

 

Hoodoo Voodoo Blackened Hot
Sauce, the Pepper Chicks J alepefio
Pretzels, and the Mexican Cactus
and Tequila Salsa.

A couple of the owner’s per-
sonal favorites are the Edible Glit-
ter Pretzel Sticks and the 23—Carat
Gold Cooking Oil.

“I wanted to use the products
to decorate with,” said Pannell.
“My mission is quality and laugh-
ter.” 0

Pannell hopes that the prod-
ucts at Fun Foods & Accessories
will be of particular interest to stu-
dents at Washington and Lee (as
well as those at the Virginia Mili-

   

Photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
PARTY FOOD: Barbecue sauces after every W&L student’s

heart for sale at Fun Foods & Accessories.

tary Institute).

For example, Fun Foods & Ac-
cessories offers customized care
packages. For exam time or late-
night homework, the store offers
sress mints, pick-up drops, and
CoffeeGo (a cup of coffee in a piece
of candy).

Pannell also hopes to get in
touch with W&L sorority repre-
sentatives to receive information
about their events, so she can 10-
cate suitable products for these oc-
casions.

In the words of their sign, Fun
Foods & Accessories is engaged
in “Making Mealtime Memories.”

I _Came here to get away. . .

' by Emily Barnes/Exe tive Editor

 

..

FAMILY TIES: Freshman Chip Saulsbury takes time out to
support his sister, senior Pam Saulsbury, at her volley-

ball game.

mature relationships,” said Hillary.
“I’ve talked to other brothers and
sisters and they’ve all said, ‘I hated
her and now we get along per-
fectly.’”

Despite the number of students
who keep the W&L experience in
the family, most agree that they
tried not to inﬂuence the collegiate
decision of their younger siblings.

“She wanted to go to William
and Mary, which I didn’t think was
very intelligent,” joked Bill. “And I
wanted her at least to apply, but I
tried to be pretty neutral.”

When her brother Chip was ac-
cepted as a member of the class of
2004, senior Pam Saulsbury tried to
remain impartial. ’

“I was really excited but I didn’t

   

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor
TOGETHER AGAIN: Bill Helander tried not to inﬂuence his
sister Emily’s decision to attend W&L...too much.

While their older siblings
struggled with being supportive
and unbiased, younger siblings
struggled with. the stigma of imita-
tion.

“I actually wasn’t even going
to apply here because he goes
here,” said Emily.

The Bryants’ father is an alum-
nus of the school, and two of the
Bryants older sisters are alumnae.

“My dad was very fair and im-
partial and encouraged us to look

I at other schools,” said Hillary.

Though the decision to attend
W&L is usually arrived at inde-
pendently, siblings who attend
W&L together retain a unique
connection.

“We’re in totally different so-
rorities but the other day we
walked out to the houses together
and then just went our separate
ways,” said Paige.

Knowing someone who is al-
ready familiar with the carnpus and
its customs is also an advantage
for younger siblings, especially in
the first weeks of school.

“It’s been helpful to know
things,” said Emily. “Having the
inside knowledge on what to wear
and stuff like that has been nice.”

Though siblings are always
available to help each other out in
a pinch and effortlessly maintain a
special relationship, having sepa-
rate lives is also a possibility.

“We can be at a school this
small and still have totally differ-
ent experiences,” said Paige.

 

y ichael Crittenen

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

For this year’s inaugural edition
of Michael’s Pub, I decided to stick
to an old favorite: Redhook ESB,
from the Redhook Brewing Com-
pany. First brewed in 1987 and mod-
eled after extra—special bitters (hence
the ESB) found in every self—re-
specting English pub, ESB is one of
Redhook’s most popular ales. A rich,
copper-colored ale, Redhook ESB is
fairly inexpensive at about $5.50 for
a six—pack, and packs quite a punch
with a 5.7% alcohol content.

Reminiscent of its British fore-
fathers and spicy Belgian ales like
Duvel, ESB has a “rich, round-
toasted malt ﬂavor followed by a
pleasant sweetness,” according to
the Redhook’s webpage. This be-
ing said, my personal opinion is
that it’s just wicked good, ayuh!

The beer has a nice hoppy taste
that reminds me of high school
parties drinking Shipyard Export
Ale (from Portland, Maine),
though not as bitter. A rich, warm
ﬂavor pervades this beer from the
first sip to the last. Not too heavy
and overbearing like some stouts
and porters, this beer is a comfort-
able amber that is perfect for grilled
meats, game or fowl. Perfect for sit-
ting around the barbecue or listen-
ing to a good bootleg with friends,
ESB is a quality brew.

Established in Seattle in 1981,
the Redhook Brewing Company is
one of a small number of national
“micro-brews” that enjoys wide-
spread popularity among beer con-
noisseurs. The company currently
has three breweries in the United
States: the original Seattle brewery,
a Woodinville, WA, brewery built
in 1994, and the newest Redhook
brewery located in Portsmouth,
N.H. (the birthplace of your

    

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

SHOPPING THE “i>UB:” Crittenden makes a careful selection
after moments of deep introspection.

— “humble” author). In addition to

ESB, Redhook features a number
of quality ales including a great
India Pale Ale, Hefe-weizen,
Doubleblack Porter (not for the
weak of heart) and the popular
Blonde Ale.

All in all I give Redhook ESB a
seven on the ten-point Crittenden
“Year 2000 Beer-O-Rama” Scale
(recognized nationally for its taste
and completely biased subj ective—
ness). The alcohol—content makes

it a practical drinking man’s beer,
and the good taste makes it a wel-
come ale to return to after too many
weeks of Natural Light. More in-
formation about Redhook and its
many beers can be found at
www.redhook.com. Next week in
Michael’s Pub we will discuss
Yuengling lager, from the oldest
brewery in the United States. Ifyou
have any suggestions or comments
for Michael’s Pub please email me
at crittendenm@ wlu.edu.

Nominations for WHO’S WHO

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current undergraduate
senior class for selection to
Who’s Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges may do
so by submitting the name and
qualifications of that student to
David L. Howison, Dean of Students,
in Payne Hall 9 by October 2, 2000.

Criteria for selection to Who’s Who
include (1) scholarship, (2) participation
and leadership in academic and
extracurricular activities, (3) citizenship
and service to Washington and Lee,
and (4) potential for future achievement.

.,..
.../.

   

The Cutting E
 I  al  
highlighng, manicuring, pedicuring, waxing

walk-ins welcome
117 W. Relson Street

Lexington, WI 24450

540463-9588

 

 

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

SPORTS
Watson, W&L trounce Centre

 

2!

PAGE 6 SEPTEMBER 25, 2000 .

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Senior Marc Watson amassed
236 all-purpose yards and three
touchdowns as Washington and
Lee improved to 3-0 for the first
time since 1963 with a45-7 win over
Centre College Saturday in
Danville, Ky.

Sophomore Bobby Littlehale
and freshman Zack McQuigg com-
bined for 203 yards passing to
complement the Generals’s running
game. Senior wide receiver Wes
Hardy caught four passes for 130
yards and two touchdowns.

“That’s definitely an advan-
tage: that the offense has great
balance,” W&L head coach Frank
Miriello said. “You kind of hope

(as a defense) that you get the of-
fense in a long—yardage situation.
When you don’t know if it’s run or
pass, it's a dilemma for the de-
fense.”

The W&L defense limited the
Colonels to just 79 yards rushing,
and picked off Centre quarterback
Drew Mildren three times on the
afternoon. Miriello, whose team
edged Centre 23-17 at home last
year, was not expecting such a wide
margin of victory for his Generals.

“I thought this would be a real
test for us, and give us an indica-

tion of what the team’s made of,”

Miriello said. "I expected it to be a
touchdown game either way. But
we had some big plays, and it got
out of control a little quickly.”
The Generals wasted little time

getting on the board, as Watson
scored on an 18-yard TD run on
W&L’s second play from scrim-
mage for a 7-0 advantage. Littlehale
connected with sophomore tight
end Davis White on a five-yard
touchdown pass to extend the lead
to 14-0 late in the first quarter.

A field goal from senior Andy
Vendig in the ﬁnal minute of the
second quarter gave the Generals
a 17-0 lead going into the break.
Any hopes that the Colonels had
of getting back into the game were
crushed when Watson returned
the opening kickoff of the second
half 88 yards for a score.

McQuigg’s ﬁrst two collegiate
touchdown passes, both to Hardy,
sandwiched a 61-yard run from
Watson and Centre’s only score

of the game — an 11-yard pass
from Mildren to Joe Guthrie — to
produce the final margin.

W&L returns home next Satiir-
day to face Old Dominion Athletic

"Conference opponent Randolph-

Macon (2-2, 1-0 ODAC). The Yel-
low Jackets defeated preseason
conference favorite Catholic 31-28
Saturday, placing even more weight
on the game for the Generals.

“We’re playing .an entirely dif-
ferent team this week,” MirieHo
said of Randolph—Macon, a team
known for its aerial attack. “Our
secondary and our linebacking
corps will be tested. Whether we
can get any pressure on the pass
rush is a big question.”

Kickoff time is set for 1 p.m. at
Wdson Field.

WHAT rr WAS wAsN"r FOOTBALL. The Washington and Lee club rugby team battled the Virginia Military Institute
Saturday at VMI’s Parade Grounds. Despite a valiant effort against the Keydets, the Generals fell 31-5.

 

by Colin Mitchell/Staff Photographer

Road trip begins for W&L

Generals lose ﬁrst of
five straight road
games, but rebound
to win the second

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team forged a split
decision in two road Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference matches
this week, losing to Biidgewater
College Tuesday, and beating
Randolph—Macon Women’s Col-
lege Saturday.

The Generals lost to Bridgewater,
1-0, despite outshooting the Eagles
23-11. Sarah Pritchett scored the
only goal of the game, ﬁnding the
net late in the first half. Goalkeeper
Julianne Blevins stopped all 14
shots on goal to ensure the win for

the Eagles.

W&L goaltender Lauren Harris
made seven saves for the Generals,
posting a respectable .875 save aver-
age for the game. Junior Kate Bidwell
led the Generals with five shots.

The Generals evened their
record with a 3-0 win against
Randolph-Macon. Freshman
Susarmah Hewlett drew ﬁrst blood
for the Generals early in the sec-
ond half on a goal assisted by
sophomore Jennifer Thomas.

Bidwell added two second half
goals for W&L — one off assists
from Hewlitt and freshman
Fontaine Marcoux, and an unas-
sisted tally with four minutes re-
maining in the game.

Harris made ﬁve saves for the
Generals to notch her second shut-
out of the season. The Generals
were 3-3, including a 2-2 mark in
the ODAC, prior to Sunday
aftemoon’s game a_tLynchburg.

 

This week ’s schedule in General athletics...
Football

Sat. September 30 Randolph—Macon 1:00 p.m.
Men ’s and Women ’s Cross Country

Sat. September 30 Roanoke Invitational 10:30 am.
Men’s Soccer

Thurs. September 28 at Hampden-Sydney 4:00 p.111.

Sat. September 30 Lynchburg 1 1:00 am
Women’s Soccer

Wed. September 27 at Sweet Briar 4:30 pm.

Sat. September 30 at Virginia Wesleyan 12:00 p.in.
Volleyball

Tues. September 26 Guilford 6:30 p.m.

Fri.-Sat. September 29-30 Emory Tournament
Water Polo

Sat.-Sun. Sept. 30-Oct. 1 Atlantic Division Tournament

HULL’

E)Rl\/E—I

FRIDAY - SATURDAY - SUNDAY

4 Miles, Route ll‘ North Lexington
463-2621 .
Admission $4/adult.

N

V’

  

  

BE A PART OF OUR TEAM...
COVER SPORTS FOR THE PHI!
CALL US AT X4060
OR EMAIL PHI @WLU.EDU

Tired of the some old food?

 

1

7‘ 5 GOURMET SPECIALTIES 

‘\.._.

Gate Opens 7pm

G STUDENT CARE PACKAGES

  

Wish there was a New Mexican, Indian. Thai,

 

M°"ie‘ °" D”5" . 0 CREATIVE GIFT BASKETS A) I . . . . . 7 "
SHAN GHAI N CON PG] 3  9 LAUGHTER & SMILES Cqlwla Canbbeam Mlddéehﬁlgliisn restaurant ".1 the area’
  ...m........c.... »
y 6 East Washington Street, Lexington - V
DOUBLE FEATUR]-Em ) Next 7i1Stonewall jar/axon Home ‘     A '.
THE TAO OF STEVE R M ,‘ . "
2000 Donal Logue, Greer Goodman J 540 464 4433 EVCI7 weekend is I tllﬁtfcli canine, so it'll‘! INVOI
Romantic Comedy T Order Toll Free: 377 473 4433 out of the county when great food is only 6 miles away?
‘it We Ship Anywhere!

September/OctoberSchedule: S ’

  29-30 Middle Eastern/6-7 Indian
Dinner S-8:30 pm.

Friday and Saturday nights only

www.funfoodsforyou.com

www.h|lsdr'ivein.com

/-E,

1 “Making Mealtime Memories”

5
at
1

 

‘R

 

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

S

@112 ﬁling-tum Iﬁlii

PORTS

PAGE 7

Generals slide past Wesleyan, 2-

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team came into Saturday’s
home conference match with a mis-
sion — to beat Virginia Wesleyan
for the first time since 1989.

Mission accomplished, as the
Generals edged the Blue Marlins
by a 2-1 margin.

Both teams entered the game
undefeated in Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference play, and both
boasted outstanding goalkeepers.
W&L sophomore Brad Hearn had
a perfect 1.000 save percentage,
and Virginia Wesleyan’s Sean
Wheaton had not allowed a goal
in his last three games.

“This is always a huge rivalry,”
senior captain Ryan Nelson said. “We
knew it was going to be a battle.”

“We don’t like them —- not one
single bit,”coach Ro1fPi1anian added.

The game opened with early
scoring drives from both teams.
The Generals set the standard for

aggressive play with hard tackles
and solid goaltending from Hearn.
At the 13-minute mark, Hearn
wrestled the ball down, stopping
Blue Marlin freshman Chris Mills.

The Generals then established
offensive dominance, keeping the
ball in the Blue Marlins’ end for
most of the ﬁrst half. Wheaton and
the Virginia Wesleyan defense
compensated for the play of their
midfield, repeatedly stopping the
Generals from scoring.

Fortune was also with the Gen-
erals. Mills again broke free in the
Generals’ zone 24 minutes into the
game, and passed to senior Chas
Gorham, whose shot went wide.

With less than five minutes left
in the half, a comer kick in the Gen-
erals’ end was headed over the
goal. During the play, Hearn was
elbowed in the head, and came out
of the game bleeding visibly.
Sophomore Tim Foley entered the
net in relief.

“We’re fortunate that we can
interchange our goalies like that,”

    

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

MAD DASH. Freshman Bret Grote and a Virginia Wesleyan
player scramble for a loose ball in the Generals’ 2-1 win.

Nelson said of the two netminders.

Two minutes later, junior for-
ward Andrew Grimes came out of
the game with an injured leg, com-
plaining of a loss of sensation. The
half ended with the score tied at O-
0, but the Generals would appar-
ently have to play the rest of the

game without their starting
goaltender and their scoring leader.

However, Grimes reappeared on
the ﬁeld to begin the second half.
The Generals’s offense took the
initiative immediately, and nearly
scored two minutes into the half,
forcing Wheaton to make a save

on a high bounce.

The Generals did score at 54:22,
when sophomore Paul N egron ran
the ball down the right side of the
field and passed to classmate Brad
Murphy. Senior Andy Crawford
deﬂected the ball in for his first
collegiate goal.

W&L then weathered an ag-
gressive Blue Marlin offense that
would not allow them to clear for
much of the half. Despite the pres-
sure, the Generals gained a 2-0 lead
when junior David Kodack passed
to freshman Jacob Stoehr, who
fired the shot home at 71 :06.

With little over 10 minutes to
play, the Blue Marlins struck back,
when sophomore Josh Nolz beat
Foley with a header, assisted by
freshman Jamie Phelps.

“That goal was a wake-up call,”
Nelson said of the Nolz goal.

With two minutes left, the game
was still up in the air. Virginia
Wesleyan sophomore Brad Bertolet
received a red card and an automatic
ejection for elbowing at that time.

“They earned that red card,”
Piranian said of the rough play.

The game ended with the Gen-
erals holding the ball safely in the
Blue Marlins’ zone.

The win advances W&L’s
record to 5-0 overall, and 2-0 in the
ODAC. Virginia Wesleyan is 3-4-1
overall, and 3-1 in the conference.

The Generals entered Saturday’s
game coming off a 3-0 home non-
conference win against Ferrum on
Thursday. Senior Jon Wilson
scored 15 minutes into the game,
assisted by junior David Kodack.

Andrew Grimes added to his
tally halfway through the first half,
netting his sixth goal off an assist
from freshman Philip Miller.

The Generals, who outshot
Ferrum 20-2, again capitalized with
nine minutes left in the game.
Murphy stole the ball from F errum
goaltender Rod Baker to score the
final goal. '

The men’s soccer team next plays
Sept. 28 on the road against ODAC
opponent Hampden—Sydney.

Volleyball team returns to winning ways

 

Generals have little trouble in
rolling off three straight wins

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Just 10 days removed from having a 23-match Old
Dominion Athletic Conference winning streak
snapped by Lynchburg, the Washington and Lee
volleyball team capped off an undefeated week Sat-
urday with a 3-0 victory over conference foe
Bridgewater.

The Generals knocked off Emory & Henry, South-
ern Virginia, and Bridgewater without dropping a
single game to improve their record to 6-2 on the sea-
son, including a 2-1 mark in the ODAC. First—year
head coach Bryan Snyder was pleased with his team’s

play, which should get even better when one of last '

year’s stars returns from an injury.

“We’ve got Lee Charbonnet coming back from an
ankle injury, and she was a second—team a1l-confer-
ence player last year,” Snyder said of the junior out-

next weekend’s Emory Tournament. “Without her right
now, we’re still doing well, but she’ll give us a lift.”

The Generals topped conference foe Emory &
Henry 15-12, 15-10, 15-12 on the road Tuesday to
even up their ODAC record at 1-1 . Senior setter
Katherine Kline led W&L with 17 assists, junior out-
side hitter Leslie Fischbeck recorded a team-high 12
kills, and sophomore outside hitter Stacey Kimmel
tallied nine digs.

W&L stepped out of conference competition
Thursday to notch a 15-6, 15-2, 15-8 win over South-
ern Virginia. Junior middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert
recorded nine digs, seven kills, and four aces. Senior
setter Pam Saulsbury led the Generals with 13 assists,
Kimmel amassed eight kills and five digs, and
Fischbeck finished with four blocks. ‘

The Generals concluded the week with a 15-10, 15-
12, 15-6 win over Bridgewater (5-6, 2-2 ODAC). The
Eagles took a 1-0 lead to open the first game, the only
time that W&L trailed during the match.

“It’s much easier to play from ahead than to play
from behind,” Snyder said. “Volleyball’s such a game
of momentum, and a big momentum shift can really

the lead, even when they got a little momentum, it
was a lot easier on us mentally.”

Ruckert tallied ten kills and six digs, and senior
outside hitter Tori Hays contributed nine digs and
ﬁve kills against the Eagles. Saulsbury led the team
with 15 assists, and Kline added 13 more. However,
Snyder was hesitant to single out individual perfor-
mances as the key to the Generals’ victory.

“We’re playing nine players right now, and with
the substitution rules in volleyball, that’s really all
you can get away with,” the coach said. “We’re get-
ting contributions from everyone. That’s what we
need — we can’t rely on one or two people.”

Bridgewater head coach Mary Francis Heishman
was somewhat displeased with the play of her team.
Nevertheless: she credited the Generals for their ex-
ecution in the match.

“W&L played well, and I can take nothing away
from them,” Heishman said. “We didn’t play as well
as we have been playing, but there were some good
individual performances.”

The Generals host ODAC opponent Guilford Tues-
day at 6:30 p.m., and will participate in the Emory

hoto mi ames/Executive
P Y Y

ACE IN THE HOLE. Senior Katherine Kline

 

side hitter, who may be ready to return to action in

V change the ﬂow of the game. So for us to always be in

DID YOU HEAR?

...ua

Lexington Coffee won soe big ational ward as one of the
best quahty coffee houses in the whole country.

LEXINGTON

C0l?_l;‘EE

.(/1’ lI(I«\'/I'I‘l(/ (/I11)!/ill/1y

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO * BAGELS ° PASTRIES
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET - LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

Notice to all Stu.dant Leaders 

WASHIDIGTON AND LEE

PARENTS WEEKEND 2000

Novaxnbar 3 and 4

If your orga.uiza.t.iun plans to sponsor a .Pa;rant.s Weekend
event ‘which will be open to all parents and studants, please
contact Nellie nice, Parents Weekend Goordina1:ar,'Payna Hall a,
or Teresa Glas-amtan. Director of student. Auctivities. Uni.versi't°y center.
as soon as possible bust no later than September 29, 2006.

Tournament Sept. 29 and 30.

and Health
Education 1‘
Office

Q

serves against Southern Virginia.

Based on W&L CORE Survey data from 1998, 1999, 2000

 

 

3?

L   @1112 ﬁling-tum lﬁhi . L
AS! ORD ~
PAGE 8 SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

FMPHC develops new food program Weekend Beety Call Break-DOW“ ~

Dear Freshmen, tan area. The freshmen eating addic- even the early—in—the—freaking-mom-
As you dined in the GHQ, you tion has driven them to purchase non— ing meals.
might have heard the discontented university sanctioned edible goods 3. Freshmen must line up a1pha- ’
murmurings of the upperclassmen — such as ice cream, granola, and pizza. betically in the BDG Quad and march p assed _o ut A uto—e fOli C

 
 
  

soon; however, that murmur shall turn Places such as the local provider of the VMI style to the refractory. d expe [1 e nce

into a deafening cacophony. Iam the pizza pies, Domino’s, the sandwich 4. Freshmen must sit in their as- , _ an 89/

newly appointed Chairman of the maker, Spanky’s, and the Italian pasta signed seats according to their think/hope O

Freshmen Meal Plan Hearing Commit- procurer, Salerno’s, have been as- weight and sexual appeal. they had sex

tee and it is my job to give the pro- saulted en masse by unruly freshmen. 24%

verbial “bitch-slap” to the freshmen Domino’s has been the hardest hit Some member of the committee

for their insubordination. of all the local merchants v— the felt that a Scarlet F should be pinned

Several sophomores have testified Dominian Delivery Professionals have onto your shirts and tank tops. Luck— V M | G uys

that delinquent members of the fresh- home the brunt of the battering. ily cooler heads prevailed, and it has with D runk e n
men class have had the gall to dine Driver Billy Cohanas testified at the been decided that instead every

once a week in the very bastion of hearing, “I can’t take it much longer . . freshmen should have electronic bar ho rmo nal F reshme n
upperclassmen victuals, the GHQ. . these damn kids call me out in the codes grafted onto his forehead. im baia “C93 52%
One need not harken back far to the middle of the night to bring them food Following Tuesday’s breakfast, 3%

past to recall that freshmen once did like I’m their personal servant. . . I classes will be suspended so that all ' |_ong-Hau|

not have the option to eat the GHQ’s haven’t had a date the month since freshmen can attend the mandatory Booty C a"

moderately over—priced, average fare. school got back. My friend Chuck says Grafting Session at the W&L inﬁr-

Originally, the very purpose of the that it’s because I’m ugly, but I think mary at9arn. Coincidently, offended (3 hours or
GHQ was to provide sustenance for it’s becausel smell like pepperoni. They sophomores will be holding an im— more)
sophomores who were much too cool have just got to be stopped or I’ll never promptu paddling free-for—a1l on 1 3%

to show their faces in the cafeteria. get laid.” your behinds outside of the inﬁrmaiy
In fact, the presence of freshmen in Thus, the Freshmen Meal Plan Hear- at 9am too.

the GHQ has decreased the ESCM ing Committee has formulated this plan On Behalf of the FMPHC, I hope
(Eastern Standard Cool Measure— to prevent you punk freshmen from tear- that these new rules and regulations
merit) down from the already negli— ing down the very pillars of make our dining experience more
gible rating of 5.7 to the unaccept- Lexingtonian and Washington and enjoyable. If you have any ques-

   

able level of 3.24 —— which barely Leeian tradition. tions or comments, feel free to eat ‘
edges out the cafeteria. sh*t, as long as it’s in the cafeteria.
Not only are the freshmen abus— 1. Freshmen may only eat in the
ing the GHQ, they are also pro1iferat- Evans Dining Hall. Sincerely,
ing out into the Lexington metropoli- 2. Freshmen must eat every meal— Samuel H. Deficolon ,
Mom. Z3115/W14/L 07: 77%? WEEK. ,
7¢c'2!oLozéaoza/zac'aZctz'c'cao¢z'a¢clc;a/ac/rzecaolwééle
mama  , agwéde-doom 944 mow? ,
  0 0 ,
6'5"! 00 S
A
. . .BGOalISB SIIIIIBIIIIIES IIIBSIIEMIG EIIIIIIII
Uh-
uh...I
don’t
think
so. u 1
is E. NELSON st. (540 ) 464-4483‘
PROBLEM wmé THE LOCALS .7 i
WE’RE FROM ATLANTA.
3. J. '5 opens MON. ~ FRI. AT 4:00 AND ,
. _ SAT. - SUN AT NOON
Not bloody likely -- try again.
Bruce, M/23/Soph/ZEE/MI/Und. Eiffanv F/gt?/Juln/EYK/CA/ﬁrt H_ist- DON’T MISS OUR MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
' ; '- ' ' nos: eerea in, sopmg,
ia.'.‘,“.‘;'..".‘i.'§:a3E',"c.'.‘c".liT.-..‘?.’533$: ardnuien rrat orgies. aa-ices. swimming ’’’‘R" “W” '25 CENTLL-—-ﬁ*5"T WI” . ' 2 Fm 1 L‘
Lacrosse, and barbeques. Dislikes: it With VMI QUYS: 90SSiPi"9: bikini  AND SPECIAL-S WE CAN TADVERTISE
Sobriety, hangovers, and pants. Ext. Waxesrand M3|‘9a|‘ii53S- Dislikes: 5m€iiY: 1.55131.‘ _y
9375 gross, and sick things. Ext. 2668 V‘
Maxamillion w., M/19/SophIPElI/ Rvu M/19/50Ph/'6AII/ Jap_an/Int_- WHILE WFRE 0“ WE 5LLi3JECT Oi: FOOTBALL
MA/Econ. Enjoys: Money, golf, Eek E:J'ovsf=f_P9ketmon, Kabuki, iyshl. w£’VE GOT THE _/\_I£Z .52!/\/23:1)’ 7YC1(£'7'
R br h t ' I t ff (1. ' | arao e, e Icien cars, corpora ions,
e|eeppuha|.::ta5': I-i:p?,:lgc .,s.,"D:m:c",'a"::_ Nintendo, American women with the WATCH Youiz HOME TEAM 0N ouﬂ SCREENS L‘
Dislikes: Clinton, poor people, and fake b°5°m5- Disiikesi Ta" P1‘-'0Pie: WHILE ENIOYING OUR LUNCH SEECIALS OR
Cath0|ics_ Ext_ 1275 Sp0I‘tS, restricted trade. EXt.          _
Mary-Margaret F/2I/Jun/Ind./MO/ “3i9" Tex M/23/5e|'|IX0K/TX/Psych. * ”
Rel. Enjoys: Bible. Billveraham. Eniev-°~= Beef: death Penakvr "_'eX-<=an- 16 oz. T~ BONE STEAK wmt A BAKED POTATO
virginity, Sundays, sing-alongs and 9_|‘0i;me€i"ti3W:|S, C0U:;|'Vf mtlilfilclr Eutstii *
I I I I I I I I  a I u _
E’.t'.:":'.‘i:'..'Z'.i.'.'.Y"..‘.'..‘;‘-:‘.§.‘."l:7L".;."é?.;?i1:’.; ‘|c_i~'i'=i'Ias_—"°oi§§'-‘{«';'s5"= Lsuerzus.  AND Wee GREEN WAD ~$ 5 - 50 -
' eaimmi ran , rusan as. .
:ae§§7.2C "E:3.a§E'§°4s’ sex’ a'°°"°" am‘ 3322 9 9 9 V we ‘BUILT nus PLACE wmt You IN MIND. IF
YOU HAVEN'T FOUND US YET YOU NEEQ TO GET, ’
OUTAMORE. THE T. V.’S, ?’OOL TABLES. VIDEO '
GAMES, FOOSBALL TABLES. DART MACHINES,
DANCE FLOOR, AND LIBATIONS ARE HERE TO TAKE .
vow: MIND orr THE DAY. HAVING FUN IS ox:

 

 

