 
 

‘vﬂi.-$33‘:-i'.i\'s _ "
i.)LT‘.\{x=‘\:*'3’="?N VA ..~’4'-;’:H

i  . an

    

   lie ﬂing-tum 13

VVASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsmI’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

  @113 mi  Men’s Lax:
May1»2°°0 Best in Lex

Generals defeat VMI in 13"‘

24/7% Annual Lee-Jackson Classic

*1 Alumni Weekend BY Mike H°1meS
STAFF WRITER
Prevlew VMI students marched to Wilson Field Saturday with
Everything that’s aspirations of seeing their lacrosse team take home the
; happening this week, and a Lee-Jackson Trophy, but once again the Keydets walked
look into the upcoming away empty handed as the Generals dealt them a convinc-
, , , ing 14-4 loss.

weekenws festwmes The Lee-Jackson Classic, an annual event between VMI
See Page 3 and W&L, served as a tune-up for the Generals, who rarely

" have the opportimity to face an athletic Division I oppo-
nent such as VMI. The Keydets (7-6) looked strong at the
start of the game, as their physical play helped them get
out to a quick lead when junior attackman Brad Muston
skirted by a W&L defender to score the first goal of the

A.
' ° game. VMI was encouraged early by the large assembly of
Cheerleadlng hlts students, parents and alumni that came to support them.
 Washington and Lee was stiﬂed in the first quarter as they
were unable to convert on several opportunities. The
, New Squad mrmed for Keydets kept W&L scoreless and led at the end of the first

2000-2001 sport season quarter.

See page 3 However, the odds were stacked against VMI. The Gen-
erals (13-1), who have now won twelve straight games in
e the series, regrouped and came out much stronger in the

second quarter. Junior Pope Hackney tied the game 1:42
into the second quarter and scored another goal just 49
seconds later. The Generals continued the onslaught with
goals by junior Matt Dugan, senior Chris Brown and two
,\ from senior Colin Dougheity. Washington and Lee took a

   

Tennis captures 3:23:32::.".:%.?:.§t.:.°::;::.?;—::Sz:;:€;:;::§::‘::::‘;
OD titles halftime aﬁer Pope Iiackney scored his third goal with just photo by Emily 'Bames/Executive Editor
. Men & womenss teams seven Seconds remammg 1“ the half’ KEEPING THEM AWAY. Junior midfielder Pope Hackney keeps away the VMI defense during Saturday’s Lee-
come backvictorious SEE ‘L_EE-JACKSON.’ (_)N1:-AGE2 Jackson Lacrosse Classic. The Generals won for the twlefth consecutive year 14-4.
See page 4

The- end of Spring Term, fact or fiction?

Faculty to review entire academic calendar, not just spring term in the upcoming school year

Baseball comes
short of win

The baseball team loses
3-0 to Guilford
See page 4

A Foxﬁeld is too
pretentious

Horse race tailgate
needs to be more
like Preakness
See page 2

Men’s lax rolls

over VMI

More Lee-Jackson
Lacrosse Classic
coverage
See page 4

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Every year, rumors about the elimi- 5

nation of spring term haunt W&L stu-
dents, but these fears may be unwar-
ranted.

The academic calendar is reviewed
every 10 years to determine whether
or not the calendar ﬁts the curriculum
objectives. The last review was dur-
ing the ‘90-‘9l school year and Dean
Boetsch is helping coordinate the re-
view process for next year.

“There’s not a lot of sitting down
to ‘do away’ with spring term, that’s
not the issue,” said Boetsch.

Boetsch said there will probably be
a committee of faculty and students
to make calendar revisions. They will
analyze previous studies of the calen-
dar, senior exit surveys and other uni-
versity wide studies to determine if the

calendar is still appropriate. They will
assess the academic value of spring
term, and alterations may be made
even if the current calendar is kept in-
tact. They will also consider altema-
tives such as a two-term calendar.

In anticipation of the upcoming re-
view, members of the class of 1999
were asked several questions about
the effectiveness of spring tent; on the
senior exit poll. The results were highly
in favor of spring term.

More than 50 percent of the stu-
dents surveyed responded that spring
term brings “many benefits.” Many
said spring term allows them to work
with professors on a more individual
basis and allows . professors to offer
more creative courses.

In addition, nearly 70 percent of the
seniors polled feel that there were many
“informal, outside-of-the-classroom
benefits.” The students also claim that

the outside-of-class benefits are in-
valuable to their college experience at
W&L. 68 percent said that spring term
is the only opportunity to take advan-
tage of non-academic activities on and
off campus.

Students polled praise spring tenn
because it enables them to study spe-
cific subjects in depth and concentrate
on only one or two classes. They also
said that spring term enables them to
take classes that would not regularly
fit into their schedules. Students cite
classes such as total theater, ﬁeld
botany, and the archaeology dig as
spring courses that they could not
have taken in a full semester. Many
students also think studying abroad
and interning during the six-week term
rather than a 12-week term is much
more practical. ‘

Those that recommend cutting the
shortened term point to poor course

selection and crammed material into a
short period as their argument.

Many complaints about the calen-
dar also have to do with fall and wiri-
ter terms. Students feel that the short-
ened 12-week terms, as opposed to the
traditional 15-week, make it too difﬁ-
cult to digest the material of a full-
length course. Another downfall of the
current calendar, according to the sur-
vey, is that professors do not use
spring term effectively.

The results of the 1999 senior exit
survey will be consulted when the
committee determines the fate of
spring term. There is support for the
current calendar among university ad-
ministrators as well as students.

“I like the pace of our calendar.
Spring term provides a different aca-
demic experience,” said Dean
Howison.

Dean Boetsch agreed that the tri-

mester calendar, “allows us, when we
do it right, to approach learning from
different ways.” Boetsch said the most
notable advantages of spring term are
opportunities for internships, interdis-
ciplinary studies and studies abroad.
The calendar also allows faculty to get
release time from teaching. to focus on
other academic pursuits.

However, there is concern among
faculty about spring terrn’s effective-
ness academically. Some fear that
spring term deters from the objectives
of the curriculum.

“Unfortunately, students feed a lot
of opposition,” said Dean Boetsch,
noting that the general perception of
spring term as a carefree time of few
academic responsibilities is the great-
est threat to its existence.

“The future of spring tenn will be
based on the strength of the academic
experience,” said Howison.

Students relocate
to go tailgating

Foxﬁeld races attract students
from all over for a good time

By Alexis Yee-Garcia

News EDITOR

Thousands of spectators, including students from

W&L, UVA, even as far away as Georgetown and UNC,
converged Saturday in the middle of a field for
Charlottesville’s annual Foxﬁeld Races.

The Foxfield races have been held annually since 1978
and usually attract about 25,000 spectators. The actual
horse races at Foxﬁeld are called steeplechases and take

Parking situation
and golf carts...

lﬁ

Parking in frosh lots or place on a grass track surrounding the plots where most

Calcutta which . ., spectators gather. ,
, Is worse . The horse races themselves are not visible from most of
See Page 2 the plots, but most college students in the main area admit

that they’re not there for the horses. Even the official
Foxﬁeld sponsors confess that the races are a “tailgating
affair.”

Those who did not wake up early enough to arrive be-
fore the gates opened at l0:30a.m. faced at least an hour of
bumper-to-bumper trafﬁc, punctuated by race pre-partiers

« Top 10 goals for

a bunch of people standing around,” said sophomore John
Creek. “But it was actually fun.”

Alumni weekend hanging out of car windows, and an occassional into-the-

woods pit stop. Despite the drive, the wait, the $20 ticket

Can you tell a difference price and the outrageous $15 parking fee, even students

' ,, between students and attending for the first time said that they would return next

Alumni? .4 Y°‘i{- . . .
See page 2 phom by Tmny Friedelmhopo Editor I thought it would be hot and boring, because rt’sjust

THERE WERE Honsi-:s? Students from Washington & Lee and other colleges have a mass tailgate, otherwise
known as Foxfield on Saturday. '

 

 

PAGE 2

O

@112 Bing-tum ilﬂhi

PINION

 

MAY 1, 2000

Race tailgates
should relax

Spring Term may be here in spirit, but the damn weather
has been doing its damnedest to keep us under lock and
key. With all the rain we got there’d better be a hell of a lot
of May ﬂowers out and about Lexington.

With the exception of those who went to Foxﬁeld
and enjoyed such a pleasant Saturday, we’ve had al-
most no nice weather to speak of. It’s been wet, cold
and unpleasant. Not to say that there hasn’t been a few
nice days, but they’ve been about as plentiful as fans
in the fourth quarter at a W&L football game. Of course,
we can al-
ways make
the best of
the said
rain and
encourage
activities
more conducive to having fun in the monsoon season we
call Spring Term.

First things ﬁrst, everyone needs to lose the uppity,
“I’m-wearing-shorts-with-a-shirt-and-tie-because-it’s-
fashionable-I-swear” spring formal wear. There’s no
point to it.

We can continue pretending that we are doing more
than drinking, but let’s be realistic. We aren’t. All we are
doing is partying the same as we did this winter, it’s just
got different names and themes. Not that I am complaining

Bad<pord1Balderdash
Michael Crittenden ’01

about that. I enjoy Spring Tenn for all its fun as much as the ,

next frat guy. I just think if we stopped being so preten-
tious it could be even more enjoyable.

Foxﬁeld is a great example. Every house buys a plot,
puts on shirts and ties and throws some bastardized ver-
sion of a tailgate. Everyone attempts to be extremely classy
and cultured amidst various people passing out, girls squat-
ting behind cars and the occasional projectile vomiting. I
compare this to the Preakness horse race up in Baltimore.
The second in horse racing’s Triple Crown, it attracts a
slightly bigger crowd than Foxﬁeld.

Like Foxﬁeld, at the Preakness you get a plot in the
inﬁeld, but that is usually accomplished by getting there
early and sprinting to a good spot. Unfortunately,
sprinting is usually hampered by the cases of beer you
are carrying. The smart group will leave the cases of
beer with the slowest male who, with the help of a dolly,
can wheel enough beer for the country of Yemen into
the inﬁeld.

The dress is fairly uniform, just like Foxﬁeld, though
a little more casual: t-shirts and shorts for men (with
jean shorts always being a viable, but fashionably un-
accepted option), and bikini tops, halters, and tank tops
for women.

The tailgate at Preakness is slightly different than at
Foxﬁeld. Though you might bring some hard liquor with
you to get you started, beer is the elixir of the day and
the popular choice of all involved. This makes sense,
since it is better to pour on the young ladies in the next
plot who decided their tops were much too restrictive,
and it goes much better with the food you cook on the
grill.

People let their hair down and enjoy themselves with-

? out having to put on a facade of pomp and circumstance.

There is still people passed out on the ground, girls
squatting behind cars and more than one instance of
projectile vomiting, but it seems a little more appropri-
ate since no one is wearing seersuckers or a ﬂaming
bow tie. Of course pretensions and ostentation don’t
go over well with 75,000 people who just like to have a
good time and have no delusions of grandeur. Just some
food for thought.

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁhi

Executive Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Neal Willetts
Heather MacDonald
Tiffany Friedel

Lisa Lin

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editors

Copy Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

.. « -  ..-'~..

 :‘ ’' ,7;  —< -...~.

. r.«._:_—./. .- .'  «.
2

 

‘ ,’,l:,......._-,—;
1,... .. . __ ..
. - -g.»/-‘—_,/' ,

9
o

it we

1,001 things thatirritate

E EEPOUT

Qltt) l3cl

me:

Parking and the golf cart patrol

We are all very intelligent people — at least we were
when we got here (I will not hazard a guess as to the de-
cline in brain cells since arrival on campus) — who can
easily understand why there is a parking problem in Lex-
ington. You know, basic math: Not enough parking spots
for the number of cars. . ,

Surprisingly, I am going to begin with why the parking
situation in Lexington is a good thing.
I can name several reasons why in-
sanely ridiculous parking enforcement
is good. First, the lack of sufﬁcient
parking allows for all kinds of new
emotional experiences for W&L stu-
dents. The levels of elation felt by drivers are impossible to
duplicate when they drive around desperately before class,
looking for a place to park their SUV and then
serendipitously locate a place outside the Post Ofﬁce. Who
knew you could be so pleased to go to class, knowing that
your car is not 5 miles away in the sub-sub-freshman-sub
lot?

Second, the high probability that you will have to park
your car in Calcutta means that students here are more
likely to walk to class rather than driving aimlessly in circles
(and, what a waste, miss class) and risk extreme road rage
while driving the streets of Lexington with the don’t-break-
25mph townies on the streets. We should all be enjoying
the wonderful weather Mother Nature blessed this place
with (the recent torrential downpours are to be ignored)
and trek to class.

Finally, we should all be proud of the Lexington Police
who so graciously fund the economy of a small-to-mid
sized county with the proﬁts from the roughly 8 bazillion
parking tickets given out daily. Only the magnanimous,
hospitable Virginians would be so kind to feed the starving
children in Africa rather than use the money for their own
self-improvements. How lucky we all are!

Good points aside, I am still irritated.

I am irritated that we all run in fear from the skinny man
that drives the “parking-enforcement” vehicle around giv-
ing out tickets to those of us who park 1 1 minutes in the 10
minute spaces. I mean, who does he think he is? Um,
hello?!?! !? You drive a golf cart! Practically every boy on
this campus could mow him over in his Tahoe or 4-Runner
or toss his kayak at him.

I am irritated that people keep talking about the parking-
garage as if it will cure cancer. Well, let me be the one to tell
you that: a) it is still not ﬁnished though it was supposed
to be done in February, so how do we know if it will ever be

Ungrateful Ninja
Katy Harding ’01

complete and b) 100 new spaces is not going to solve all
the problems. One hundred spaces will barely allow the
faculty somewhere to park — much less all the sorority
inmates. Freshman will still be threatened regarding bring-
ing a car here during their ﬁrst year and students who live
in the country will still be out of luck. In fact, I pity those
of you who live in the country and have to drive to school.
Yes, you are blessed with the right
to actually drive to the Hill but you
might as well walk from wherever
in bumble Lexington you live be-
cause you aren’t going to get
much closer when you drive! If
anything, we need three parking garages to be built.

It would actually be beneﬁcial to the work environ-
ment if parking restrictions were more lax. When students
are fortunate enough to ﬁnd a space to park and the reg-
istrar women like them enough to give them a schedule
that includes a break every two-hours to move their car,
everything is peachy. However, the majority of students
have to attend class with their mind focused on whether
or not, as the professor discusses ﬁnancial analysis, Baner
is towing their car to his broth. . . I mean, to the tow place.
That type of preoccupation is not conducive to learning.

And, this two-hour time limit thing is impossible! As-
suming you are the average, country-dwelling student,
you arrive on campus at about 9:50am, stop at the Coop,
go to class for two-hours, and return to your car at 12:03 pm.
That is more than two hours. I guarantee that the little

golf-man will be ticketing your car upon your return if

Baner hasn’t already towed it.

The poor freshmen have it the worst. Not only are you
looked down upon for bringing a car to Lexington (God
forbid you wantto escape and drive away from here for a
evening), you have to park it miles away. And, unless you
are driving it home, you can’t park your car anywhere
else.

Furthermore, I do not quite understand the motivation
behind the strict parking rules. Is there a reason why we
need to force people to hike to class? If the school is
trying to promote good health then there are other sub-
stance abuse problem areasthat I feel would be more ob-
vious starting points. Does the town not suck enough
money out of the students in straight commerce and MIP’s
that there is a need to capitalize on parking? Why aren’t I
allowed to park my car on the street outside of my own
house?

None of this makes sense and that irritates me.

TEN i

GOALS FOR ALUMNI WEEKEND
P
1 0. Alumni: to hook up with an old friend.

9 . Undergrads: to hook up with an alum.

8 . Alumni: to pretend their jobs are better than ’_
everyone else’s.

7. Undergrads: to score a job for after gradu
ation.

6 . Alumni: to forget they live in the real world. it

5 . Undergrads: to ﬁnd a ﬁiend and mentor.

4 . Alumni: to relive those fraternity years get
ting drunk and breaking, well, everything. ‘

3 . Undergrads & Alumni: to streak the Colon
nade in a mixed group.

2 . Alumni: show the undergrads what W&L
party life really is. A

1 . Undergrads: to not pass out before the alumni

uote of the week:

(I ,
We’re getting out of
here before 4 a.m.

— Anonymous senior girls

2/

  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

 

“Will they leave at halftime, too?”
- Steve Hostetler ’02

“Are the best thing that’s happened
to this school.”
-Christa Hemmings ’02

“Will give me something to look at
when I’m sitting on the bench.”
-Jude Rolfes ’02

  

ﬁ_.

“It’s about time!”
-Elizabeth Alford ’02

 

MAY 1, 2000

By Michael Crittenden
W&LIFE EDITOR

Washington and Lee football
players have long complained
that they don’t have enough
fan support during their games
because of a student body
more concerned with resting
up for that night’s parties. This
fact of life is about to change,
thanks to a dedicated group of
young ladies who have
worked to provide Washing-
ton and Lee with a new
cheerleading team.

The squad, which will per-
form at Washington and Lee
sporting events next year, was
borne through the combined ef-
forts of a group of sophomore
girls who wanted to continue
the positive experience they had
cheering in high school. Team
member Liz Nacozy said that, at
first, they didn’t know if things
would work out.

“I really wasn’t sure what
was going to happen,”
Nacozy said, “but it turned out
real well . . . and everyone was

so good.” .

The group first explored the
amount of interest among the
present student body. Seeing a
positive response from class-
mates, they went ahead and
made a proposal to the adminis-
tration, talking to deans and
twisting arms until they got a go-
ahead from school officials.
They held some informal prac-
tice sessions so that interested
students could get some extra
practice and better prepare them-

selves for the tryout session,

which was held last week.

Before the tryouts, team or-
ganizers talked to the UVA’s
cheerleading coach, who in turn
invited representatives from the
W&L squad to attend practice
sessions in Charlottesville. The
W&L representatives observed
the UVA practice and workout
schedule and developed criteria
and exercises for their own try-
outs.

Held last week, the tryouts
resulted in the naming of six
young women to the
Cheerleading Squad: Christa
Hemmings, Liz Nacozy, Brooke

Hard Work does pay off afterall:
W&L has its first cheering squad

Belasco, Tiffany Friedel,
Heather Mahaney, and Jenna
Poole.

Now that the team is formed,
they are having practices once
or twice a week in Troutville,
where Hemmings’ cousin owns
a gymnastics gym. The girls
work on tumbling, stunts and
creating new cheers.

The girls currently on the
team are working hard to create
the base for a great season
next year. Picking out uni-
forms, raising money through
a cheering clinic and car wash,
creating practice drills and
making up new cheers are all
on the agenda.

The group is also sending
out a letter inviting all incoming
freshmen to come to a tryout two
days before Freshman Orienta-
tion week that is open to all un-
dergraduate students. The pur-
pose of that tryout will be to raise
the team number to between 10
and 12. The club is also seeking
out a number of athletic young
men to help the girls with stunts
during games. Said Nacozy, that
has been hard to do.

Tuesday

7:30 p.m. - Dr. Bruce W. Hodgins (Trent University,
Petersborough, Ontario).“Canada Since
Trudeau: Changing Myths and Realities & both
Regional and National.” C-School, room 327.
7:30 p.m. - Lecture and video. “Silent Courage: Maria
von Hammerstein and Her Battle Against
Nazism,” Gottfried Paasche, York College,

Ontario. Northen Auditorium.

Wednesday

4 p.m. - Men’s lacrosse at Randolph Macon.
7 p.m. - Information session on the Watson Fellowship.

“It’s a hard sell to get guys
out there to help cheerleaders,
especially at this school,”
Nacozy said. “All they would
have to do is to help us do
stunts, they wouldn’t have to do
any tumbling or cheerleading
moves.”

The group says they have
seen some interest from gentle-
men who have been informed
about the team. The group’s first
goal, according to organizers, is
to be ready to perform at the
General’s first home football
game next year against Johns
Hopkins. They said they
would like to cheer at as many _
games as they are able to, and
to also cheer for any other in-
terested sports. Response
from the football team has been
completely positive upon the
announcement of the cheer-
leading club.

“I think it’s a really great
idea because it will hopefully en-
courage some school spirit for
once,” said John Melillo, a fresh-
man football player. “Maybe the
interest in the women will make
the frat guys stay at‘ our games.”

member of Saturday Night Live.

LIVE FROM THE WARNER CENTER. . . IT5s THURSDAY NIGHT? Students got a taste
of live comedy as they were entertained by Kevin Nealon, former cast

photo by David Hanson/contributing photographer

Science Center A214.
7 p.m. - Spring 2000 Politics Filmfest. “Jamila” (1994),
directed by Monica Teuber. In English. Room
221, Williams School.
7:30 p.m. - Dr. Bruce W. Hodgins (Trent University,
' Petersborough, Ontario). “Collating Wilderness
Canoe Trips in the Canadian North since l957.”
C-School, room 327.

Thursday

7 p.m. - Spring 2000 Politics Filmfest. “Jamila” (1994),
directed by Monica Teuber. In English. Room
221, Williams School.

-£33’/4>

iv.--1-3»: _
K?

Naturally,.tlie_.c0ur1try’s premiere leaejlership schooi

offers a renowned Vst‘a_tilt‘ oi‘ <:C»ui‘*te.r:au.s ir:i;=;tru«::t«::i‘s.

; ’ you're fr'7o1ring_fbr tiieogi. try business school. Brit 1fit3e.i'per'ienre}oi1 ir:ant,_vou'H
5 ﬁnd itJ1ere. We turn college men and ieomen into leaders. Decision niakers who
rommri d mpect. Topgrilduates who can write their men ticket in life. Like to meet

' ully? Call /-aim)-MARiNEs. Ormsit usat www.MARiNE0i‘rici:R.coM.

)'0U rant learn what we reach from :2 blackboard. The Fun: The Proud.

Based on Wal cont survev
data from 1998,1999

funded IN a grant irom

mac  

Virginia Ilenartment at
Alcoholic Beverage control

Friday
9 p.m. — SAB presents Moe & Leftover Salmon. W&L
Pavilion.

Saturday

8 p.m. - A Cappella Concert featuring Southern Comfort,
JubiLee and General Admission. Lee Chapel.
10 pm. - Snackbar Jones at Chi Psi
B, S, &M at Pika
Agents of Good Roots at Sig Ep
Boogiehawg at Lambda Chi
Dean Dollar at Pi Phi

= »l'a.m. — Late Night DJ at Chi Psi

M est Vs/&L stuclents Lave

 

PAGE 4

Eli: ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

MAY 1, 2000

, comeback fell short in the ninth in-

‘LEE-JACKSON’ from page 1

VMI midﬁelder Erik Siebert scored the first goal of
the second half, but the Generals refused to allow any
more as their defense kept VMI scoreless for the last 27
minutes of the game. Washington and Lee scored the
last seven goals to take another easy victory. The sec-
ond half was a show of strength for both the offense
and defense of Washington and Lee as the team domi-
nated every aspect of the game by minimizing mistakes.

The Generals, who have typically been recognized
for their high powered offense, also has one of the lead-
ing defenses in the country. The Generals are now sec-
ond in Division III scoring defense by giving up just
5.29 goals per game. The defensive performance was
led by goalie Wes Hays (10 saves), captain Charlie
Antrim, junior Pete Iwancio, sophomore Eric
Kontargyris, and freshman defensive midﬁelder Matt
Conners.

Lexington Mayor Buddy Derrick presented the win-
ning trophy to the W&L captains following the game.
The recipients of the Worrell-Fallon memorial award for
the most valuable player from each team were goalie
Jeff Neal, who had 16 saves for VMI, and junior Matt
Dugan, who had ﬁve goals and four assists to lead
W&L. Also leading the Generals were Pope Hackney
(3 goals, 2 assists), Colin Dougherty (3 goals), Chris
Brown (1 goal, 1 assist), and junior Tom Burke and se-
nior Andy Jones who added one goal apiece. Freshman
face-off specialist Thomas Melanson won 16 of 21 face-
offs against an athletic VMI team that typically con-
trols ground balls.

Last week the General’s clinched their second
straight ODAC championship and a berth to the NCAA
tournament by defeating Hampden-Sydney l6-2. Wash-
ington and Lee is currently ranked fifth and is striving
to grab one of the four number one seeds in the upcom-
ing tournament. The Generals hope to move up in the
polls after Washington College, whom the Generals
defeated earlier this season, upset top-ranked Salisbury
State Saturday. Washington and Lee’s only blemish on
their record was a defensive battle that they lost to
number two ranked Gettysburg College earlier this sea-
son. The Generals head to Randolph-Macon this
Wednesday to defend their ten game win streak and to
ﬁnish their regular season.

SPORTS

 

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

PLAYING TOUGH DEFENSE. Senior midﬁelder Greg Meyers switches to defense as he interferes with a VMI player’s cradling. Tough defense as
Meyers demonstrates helped W&L crush VMI in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic 14-4.

Baseball ends after two losses in ODACs

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The~Washington & Lee baseball
team suffered two tight losses in two
games, as they were ousted. in the
double elimination ODAC tourna-
ment.

Game one was extremely heart-
breaking for the Generals, as their

ning against top-seeded Virginia
Wesleyan.

The game was scoreless headed
into the bottom of the sixth, when
Virginia Wesleyan struck ﬁrst with
an RBI double by DH Roger Carpen-
ter.

The Generals responded with two
runs in the top of the seventh on a
single by freshman leﬁﬁelder Bobby
Littlehale that scored shortstop
David Hanson and DH Brian
Gladysz who singled and walked re-
spectively.

However, VWC would score twice
in both the bottom of the seventh and
eighth innings to take a seemingly
commanding 5-2 lead.

The Generals responded in the
ninth. Gladysz singled and was
pinch run for by Jason May. Senior

Andy Thompson then delivered a
clutch pinch hit double moving May
to third.

After a groundout by second
baseman Michael Hanson and a
strikeout by Littlehale, sophomore third
baseman Matt Kozora singled to center
scoring both May and Thompson.

Sophomore Todd Gosselink added
another single to advance Kozora to
second, but the game would end as
the VWC second baseman would
snare a hard hit ground ball by
Russell Wrenn and toss it to sec-
ondfor an easy force out. W&L was
led offensively by Kozora and Gladys;
who went 4-for-5 and 2-for-2 respec-
tively.

' Junior David Sigler pitched eight

innings and was charged with the
loss,ending his season with a 7-5 record.

The Generals’ bats were simply
cold in their second game, as they were
blanked by a score of 3-0 against third
seeded Guilford.

Guilford took a 2-0 lead in the bot-
tom of the fourth, on a suicide
squeeze and balk call. The Quakers
increased their lead to three in the
seventh inning on a sacrifice fly.

The Generals made things inter-
esting in the ninth inning, putting
runners on first and second with
only one out, but the Guilford hurler
was able to retire the next two bat-
ters to preserve the victory.

Wrenn had_three hits for the Gen-
erals in four at—bats, while senior

Tennis sweeps ODAC’s

Both teams beat opponents into the

By Neal Willetts

LA your & DESIGN EDITOR

An amazing comeback by Zac
Vucannon in his singles set saved the
Generals tennis team and pushed them
onto their 5th consecutive ODAC vic-
tory on Aprill 5th. 2

Meanwhile, the day aﬂer the men’s
team won their title, the women’s took
home their 10th straight ODAC title in a
crushing win over their other opponents.

While both teams won, the men’s
team won by a single point, 66, to

ground
Hampden-Sydney’s 65. The women’s
team did not give their opponents an
opportunity to gain points, destroying
their opponents utterly and completely
in both singles and doubles to come out
with 72 points against second place East-
ern Mennonite’s 33.5.

The women’s team is now basking
the the glory of their I 1th crown overall,
and the men now reign with 19 trophies
out of 24 years in the ODAC’s.

Women’s team senior Brooke Haitzell
came back to Lexington with her 2nd
consecutive player of the year award.

Schuyler Marshall went 2-for-4.
Freshman Michael Hanson took
the loss despite pitching a complete
game and giving up only three
earned runs.
“Wejust played two hard games,
and couldn’t get it done,” said

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

SwiNG BATTA, BATTA, swmc. Senior Russell Wrenn takes a swing at a fast ball during the season.

Kozora.
“We faced a really good pitcher.”
“We are going to have a really
good team next year. We’ll be young,
but good.”
And as for winning a championship?
“We might. . .wejust might.”

Fed up with the
two-party,
childish
wrangling?

Put an experienced
independent for
Virginians to
consider on the U.S.
0 Senate ballot. This is
not a debate club.
This is an active

movement.

www.wood4senate.com

01'

4 (540) 930 - 2383 _

////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

Low
student
Airfares

Euiopeiliricvlsiaisouthlmeiica
lloreThan100Deparluie Cities!
Eurailpasses«BusPassesiStudyAbioad

   

7

 

 
    

/

  
     
 
 

student
£30 universe
'3“

IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT.

www.StudentUniverse.com
800-272-9676

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

   

§\ 

Women’s Lax ends

Season’s end brings in record season

ASHLAND, Va. -- Senior at-
tacker Erin Campbell (White Plains,
N.Y./Mamaroneck) scored four
goals to help lead Lynchburg Col-
lege to an 8-4 win over Washing-
ton and Lee in the semiﬁnals ofthe
ODAC Women's Lacrosse Tourna-
ment held at Randolph-Macon Col-
lege on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals_(8-5) were led by
senior attacker Katherine Riddle
(St. Clair Shores, Mich./Univer-
sity-Liggett), who tallied two
goals on the day. She ends her
career with 100 goals and 41 as-
sists for 141 points.

Sophomore attacker Emily
Owens (Waco, Texas/Episcopal)
chipped in with one goal and one
assist. Freshman attacker Leslie
Bogart (Wilton, Conn./Wilton)
claimed one assist on the day to

push her season assist total to 30,
breaking the single-season
school-record held by Erika
Snyder (29) since the 1996 season.

In addition to Campbell's ex-
ploits, Lynchburg (l4-3) received
additional offensive support from
freshman attacker Lindsay Caruso
(Darien, Conn./Darien), who tal-
lied two goals and one assist.

Senior Ginny Jernigan (Or-
lando, Fla./Dr. Phillips) made nine
saves in goal, pushing her career
total to 505 saves. She ﬁnishes her
career second in W&L history in
that category.

Sophomore Jen McHugh (Bel
Air, Md./C. Milton Wright) posted
17 saves in goal for the Hornets.
W&L outshot Lynchburg, 26-22,
in the contest. Courtesy ofSports
Information

Track simmers down

Season ends in less than stellar finish

HARRISONBURG, Va - The Wash-
ington and Lee men's and women's
track teams competed in the Eastern
Mennonite Royal Track Invitational
on Saturday afternoon in
Harrisonburg, Va. The men's team fm-
ished ﬁfth of nine teams while the
women's squad ﬁnished ﬁfth of 11
teams.

On the women's side, W&L was led
by sophomore Sarah Schmidt (Topeka,
Kan./Hayden), who claimed first place
in the javelin competition with a throw
of ll3-09. Schmidt edged out senior
teammate Meredith Mlynar (New
Fairﬁeld, Conn./New F airﬁeld), who ﬁn-
ished in second with a heave of 102-09.
Also turning in strong showings for
the Generals were freshman Burke
Duncan (Oklahoma City, Okla./Casady)
in the 3,000 meter run (3rd Place -
1 1:12.20), and seniorlill Kosch (Colum-

bus, Neb./Scotus) in the 200-meter dash
(27.34). l(osch‘s time in the 200 missed
the W&L school-record by only .22
seconds.
The men's team was led by junior
Marc Watson (Marietta, Ga./Walton),
who ﬁnished as the runner-up in the
100-meter dash. Watson's time of 1 l .09
seconds placed him just ahead of se-
nior teammate Hansell Pasco (Hilton
Head, S.C./Hilton Head), who posted
a time of l l .17. Sophomore Michael
Hegg (Seattle, Wash./Shorecrest) ﬁn-
ished second in the 400-meter hurdles
(58.95) and third in the 110-meter high
hurdles (15.90). The other highlight for
the men's squad came in the high
jump, where junior Jacek Mucha
(Houston, Texas/AWTY Interna-
tional) ﬁnished as the runner-up with
a leap of 5-8. Courtesy of Sports In-
formation

Come write for

win am

Join W&L’s oldest and most presti-
gious newspaper for the ﬁnal weeks
of spring term!

Call X4060 or email phi@wlu.edu

 

