9 18.185
F5oZ

- Ff

ls cr
AG-22.

 

Che KRing-tum Whi mn

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 22

 

 

Clark Raymond Mollenhoff

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

(W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely)

Prof. Mollenhoff dies at 69

 

By Chris Baradel and Jon Sbar
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Washington and Lee Journalism Professor Clark
R. Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist,
author, syndicated columnist and former presiden-
tial ombudsman, died of cancer Saturday at Stone-
wall Jackson Memorial Hospital. He was 69.

To his colleagues and many of his students, he

} was much more than that.

‘It’s hard to believe he’s gone,’’ said senior
J.R. Smith. ‘‘After being in the Journalism Depart-
ment for four years, the faculty has become almost
family, and with the loss of Professor Mollenhoff,
I feel as if I’ve lost a part of myself.”’

Mollenhoff had that kind. of effect on people.
He was a unique individual, a man possessed of a
rigorous work ethic and unshakable integrity. That
integrity led to his turning down a bribe from
Teamsters leader Jimmy Hoffa, telling the man
who controlled multi-millions of dollars in Team-
sters pension funds, ‘‘You can’t afford my price.’’

He possessed a willingness to go to any length

, to help right an injustice. This characteristic won

‘Former CIA chief
lauds capitalism

‘Time and momentum are on the

him the respect and admiration of his peers and
his students.

‘“‘His unfailing vigor impressed me,’’ said fellow
Journalism Professor John Jennings. ‘‘He was
always willing to put himself out for students and
colleagues and anyone else.’’ Junior Matt Smith
echoed Jennings, saying, ‘‘He never let obstacles
stop him, he just persevered.’’ Indeed, he con-
tinued teaching classes here until a mere two
weeks before he died.

Nationally known as one of the finest investiga-
tive reporters in the history of this country, he
brought a tremendous amount of prestige to Wash-
ington and Lee when he began teaching here in
1976. ‘‘He brought with him a national following,”’
said colleague Ron MacDonald. ‘‘He called nation-
al attention to (Washington and Lee and the
Department of Journalism], and continued to do so
through his books and a variety of speaking
engagements.’

His colleagues praised him for sharing with
them the insights he had gained in 35 years of
active investigative reporting. Jennings called him
‘“‘One of those people from whom his colleagues
learn almost as much as his students do.”’

Mollenhoff had a number of distinctive clas-
sroom idiosyncrasies and physical traits that helped
make him unforgettable. He stood 6’4’’ tall and
weighted in the neighborhood of 240 pounds, with
a rumbling voice to match. Mollenhoff was affec-
tionately known to his students as ‘‘The Boomer”’
(although never to his face), a nickname he had
acquired in Washington from berating bureaucrats
and politicians for corruption and duplicity. Stu-
dents who came to class unprepared on a consistent
basis soon came to empathize with the numerous
politicians that had been on the business end of his
earthy bellow.

One of his golden rules in the classroom was
that only students physically larger than himself
were allowed to wear hats. He liked to point out

.thatin_ fifteen years of teaching, only one student

had met the qualifications.

Mollenhoff believed in the virtues of hard
work. He took pride in the fact that after graduat-
ing from college, he went to law school and played
two sports there, all while working 40 hour weeks
for the Des Moines Register. Keeping in the spirit

Q) Please see BOOMER page 3

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

March 7, 1991

Law students

defend

barred

employers

Faculty holds ground against
discriminators on law campus

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Law students will continue to
fight a law faculty policy that pre-
vents the U.S. military from recruit-
ing at the Law School.

The law faculty reconsidered but
took no action Monday on a Feb. 11
policy amendment that prevents em-
ployers that legally discriminate agai-
nst homosexuals from using Law
School placement facilities, according
to Law School Dean Randall Bezan-
son.
Mitchel Neurock, ’92L, a U.S. Air
Force officer, said that if other efforts
to circumvent the faculty policy fail,
he will form a Military Law Society.

The group would be student-run
and perform the function of the

placement office for government
recruiters affected by the policy
change.

First, said Neurock, students who
oppose the policy will appeal to
university President John Wilson to
act.

The president of the University of
Virginia has suspended a_ similar
policy passed by the UVa. law facul-
ty ‘‘pending reexamination,’’ said
UVa. Law Prof. George Rutherglen.

Neurock said the next step will be
a letter-writing campaign to the Wa-
shington and Lee Board of Trustees.
He hopes the board will be
supportive of his position to defend
military recruitment of law students,
given its resolution supporting the
military personnel in the Persian
Gulf.

Law Prof. Timothy Philipps last
week circulated among law faculty an
amendment proposal which would
readmit lawful discriminators such as
the military to the Law School place-
ment office.

Philipps said last week that the
issue ‘‘has caused more divisiveness
and hard feelings here than any issue

 

Mock Convention to pick
state chairmen

BRIEFS

Kelsey wins EC law seat

in recent memory,’’ and some
compromise would be necessary to
quell those feelings.

Philipps would not this week
comment on how his amendment
proposal fared with the faculty.

He said there is a ‘‘tacit
agreement’’ among law faculty not to
discuss Monday’s deliberations since
the Feb. 11 policy changes stood up
under reconsideration.

The Associated Press reported a
close faculty vote to defeat Philipps’
amendment, but Bezanson would not
confirm the numbers.

The Association of American Law
Schools, an agency with which W&L
is accredited, has called on its mem-
ber-schools to pass policies like
W&L’s that keep lawful discrimi-
nators out of the placement office.

Bezanson said at least 75 percent
of member-schools have complied,
but no one is certain if not having
the policy will cost accreditation.

Michael Carlson, '92L, an oppo-
nent of the policy, said accreditation
would probably not be at risk if
W&L permitted the military to re-
cruit.

Carlson said too many AALS
member-schools have not adopted the
policy or do not obey it.

More than 225 law students have
signed the petition opposing the
faculty policy, said Neurock. Carlson
stopped collecting signatures soon
after reaching 60 percent.

Neurock said law students are
investigating the case of another
private university that just rescinded
its AALS policy in the face of losing
government research contracts. He
said they will try to determine if such
a threat faces W&L.

The Executive Committee unani-
mously condemned the faculty policy
on Feb. 25, though senior EC Reps.
John Fialcowitz and Willard Dumas
later withdrew their support, saying
they needed to investigate the issue
further.

 

y Kimberly Boots
taff Reporter

 

! World opinion is turning toward
smocracy and free market economies
ecause of ‘man’s natural inclination
» have as much say in how he is
overned as possible,’’ Admiral St-
asfield Turner, former director of the
entral ‘Intelligence Agency, said
‘sterday during a speech in the
"ymmerce School.

Turner’s speech, ‘‘The Future of
ocial Democracy,’’ was sponsored
y the Telford Lecture Series.

Turner graduated from the U.S.
‘aval Academy in 1946 and went on
2 command the U.S. Second Fleet
nd North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
ion Striking Fleet Atlantic and to
serve as Commander in Chief of
YATO’s southem flank. He was

director of the CIA from 1977 to
1981.

Turner spoke about the worldwide
rend toward democracy, expressing
his belief that this trend will con-
tinue.

“Part of the world is tuming in
our direction, first toward democracy,
and second, toward our market of
free enterprise,’’ he said. This trend
stems from ‘‘man’s natural inclination
to have as much say in how he is
governed as possible.

side of democracy ... centrally con-
trolled economies have simply not
worked,”’ he said, citing Japan, South
Korea and Taiwan as examples of
countries which have emulated the
economy of the United States.

He said Leninism and Marxism
have failed in the Soviet Union be-
cause of the lack of incentives and
because there is too much central
control.

‘In my view, the Soviet economy
is bankrupt,’’ Turner said, adding that
a change in the attitude of the Soviet
citizens is necessary for the Soviet
economy to convert to a system
based more on capitalism. He pointed
out that the Soviets embrace equality
above all else, even if the level of
equality is poverty.

As for the role of the United
States in the world economy, Turner
said, ‘‘what we must do is to remain
the model for these people — of de-
mocracy, of free enterprise. We are
what they want to emulate.’’ He said
the U.S. needs to adapt to losing its
role as the largest component of the
world marketplace.

The CIA, he said, should ‘‘shift
attention and resources to the eco-
nomic sphere.’’ It needs ‘‘to do more
to provide economic information to
the government and ‘to businesses
themselves.’’ This information

 

Admiral Turner

will help the country to find ‘‘niches
in the international marketplace.’
Tumer said the U.S. needs to be
“adopting the better side of social-
ism,’’ to create a ‘‘mixture between
socialist concern and free enterprise
initiative.’’ This would include greater
attention to the problems of crime,
poverty, drug addiction, damage to
the ecology and illiteracy. He said
our country must deal with these
problems in order to ‘‘continue to set
a better example to the world.’’
With the decline of the Soviet
threat, Turner predicted that NATO
“‘will atrophy or disappear over
time’ and that new relationships
between nations will form. He feels
that the position of the U.S. in the
new order will be a more distant one.

Wolfe to address Law students

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

lawyers.”’

Wolfe, a ’51 graduate of W&Lwas a pioneer of the

 

Tom Wolfe, best-selling author and W&Lalumnus, will
be the featured speaker at this year’s Law School

commencement.

writing style known as ‘‘The New Journalism,’’ in which

a news story reads like a work of fiction.

He gained widespread popularity with the publication
of his book The Electric Cool-aid Acid Test, an account

of author Ken Kesey’s experimentation with psychedelic

 

According to Dean of the Law School Randall P.
% Bezanson, Wolfe, ’51, was the overwhelming favorite
among third-year law students for the May 19 ceremony.
Bezanson said that despite the fact that Wolfe is not

a lawyer, the author should do a good job,
‘*He is a wonderful speaker,’’ said Bezanson, ‘‘and he
¥ has a great deal to say, not only about the legal system,
but also about social issues that are relevant to law and

drugs during the’70s.

Two of Wolfe's later books, Bonfire of the Vanities
and The Right Stuff, have been made into motion
pictures.

Wolfe’s other books include The Kandy-Colored
Tangerine Flake Streamline Baby, Radical Chic and Mao
Maoing the Flak Catchers, The Pump House Gang, and In
Our Time.

 

The Mock Convention Steering Committee
is looking for 55 people to chair individual state
committees. The state chairpersons are needed to
research their states political atmosphere to determine
how the state will vote in the upcoming presidential
primaries. They will also need to participate in
general fundraising activities. There will be an
orientation meeting this Thursday night in Northen
Auditorium at 6:30.

Committee Co-chairman John Donaldson said
the Steering Committee is planning the Spring kickoff
week this April 22-26. Congressmen, journalists, and
analysts are expected to fill the week’s lecture
schedule and there will also be a band in the GHQ
the night of the 26.

Donaldson said the committee is soliciting
donations from alumni by mail and by phone in an
effort to raise the $45,000 needed to hold the conven-
tion.

The committee has also asked for the help
of the faculty and administration in contacting a list
of potential speakers that ‘‘command a_ national
presence within the Democratic Party.’’

— By Andrew Tucker

Family-owned businesses
best, consultant says

Family-owned companies have to brace
themselves for tough times ahead, but they can still
fight back, the president of a family business consult-
ing firm told Washington and Lee students Monday.

‘‘Consolidation of competition, consolidation
of the trade, insufficient funding and internal family
problems are just a few of the challenges the family-
owned comedy will have to face,’’ said Jeff Mennen,
president and founder of the G.J, Mennen group.

According to Mennen, company mergers and
buyouts that dominated in the '80s are not going to
die away.

‘‘Now you have fewer and stronger players
out there that are looking to pick off smaller and
weaker ones, and family businesses is a target,’’ said
Mennen. Prior to his consulting career, Mennen was
the vice president of the Mennen Company, which is
a major producer of deodorants and aftershaves.

— By Max Gan

Executive Committee Secretary Jeffery
Kelsey won the seat for third-year law EC repre-
sentative with 39 of 54 votes cast on March 4.
Kelsey defeated
Chong Kim _ without
run-off, by 24 votes.
Clinton Shaw
faced John  “‘Jay"’
Sterne today in the run-
off for the second-year
law EC seat. Shaw
won 42 of the 113
votes to Sterne’s 32.
The two defeated
Johnson ‘‘Johnny’’

 

 

Jeffery Kelsey

Sarber, 19 votes; Douglas Kilday, 12; and Joanne
Bocketti, 8.

— By Rick Peltz

Flap in Florida over
‘Big Hair’

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla — The never-
ending quest for ‘‘big-hair’’ created with the help of
spray has raised a cloud of controversy as middle
school students smuggle in the contraband cosmetic.

Students in Broward County say many of
their classmates smuggle the hairspray into school
despite the fact that it is banned by more that one-
third of the county’s 29 middle schools.

“I spend 30 minutes doing my hair. If you
don’t get to spray it to where it will hold, there’s no
point in doing it in the morming before school,’’
eighth-grader Shelley Kuntzman said of the ban,
which began at Seminole Middle School.

She says she uses a non-aerosol spray,
because she it’s not harmful to the environment. But
it also doesn’t hold as well, so she needs to spray
more often.

Students have lots of threories about the ban.

“If someone lights a cigarette in the bath-
room, plus the hair spray, it kind of like explodes,”’
seventh-grader Anika Omphroy said.

That theory was news to Cecil Austin,
assistant principal at Seminole. Administrators were
more concerned that students might spray their
classmates, either deliberately or by accident, he said.

— From the Associated Press

 
 

 

 

Photo Editor

*. «FO. 08

«= lCOS ee

OPINION

Onward
and Upward

With the death of Professor Clark Mollenhoff on
Saturday, Washington and Lee lost the paradigm of
unwavering dedication to principle. He had a genuinely
sincere disposition that elicited admiration among his friends
and respect among the people he tormented.

None of his students will soon forget his domineering
presence in the classroom. Nor will they forget the stories
he told about his experiences fighting graft, mismanagement
and corruption in virtually every level of government, from
the courthouse in Polk County, Iowa, to the White House in
Washington, D.C. He intimated himself with his students
through his method of teaching. His introductory journalism
students could count on spending two or three nights a week
summarizing war stories about his tireless campaign against
corruption embodied by the likes of Jimmy Hoffa, Bobby
Baker, Babe Bisignano and Luigi Fratto. He recorded these
stories in the textbook he wrote for his classes.

His life consisted of an _ unparalleled list of
accomplishments that most of us can only hope to
approximate: Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, author of 11
books, presidential counsel, authority in his field, versed poet
and devoted family man. He turned down an offer to play
professional football in order to devote his life to cleaning
up the government; indeed, in his hey day as a crusading
investigative reporter he was the nemesis of every corrupt
government official that ever thought of breaching public
trust. His absolute insistence on finding the truth certainly
places him in the same category with the country’s greatest
crusaders against crime, including his personal role model,
Lincoln Steffens.

Mr. Mollenhoff dedicated the last 15 years of his life to
bringing his experiences in Iowa and Washington to W&L.
How appropriate it is that he chose to impart his passion for
honesty on the students of Lee’s College, where honesty is
revered in principle and practice with unparalleled
enthusiasm.

Though we will no longer have the deep guttural voice
bellowing through Reid Hall, the memory of ‘‘the young
reporter’ behind that voice will continue to inspire us.

Fancy fun

In the past months, with news of lives lost and soldiers
injured during fighting in the Persian Gulf, continuing plans
for a pricey weekend of partying brought feelings of guilt.
In light of the circumstances, the cancellation of Fancy
Dress would have been a reasonable decision.

But this week, peace is settling over the desert, easing
our minds, releasing tension, and allowing us to almost
freely turn our minds to the concert, the bands, the
fireworks and the parties. Debates about just how the
Warner Center is going to be transformed into a medieval
castle just are not as trivial as they once seemed.

Whether you are going to the FD ball or just hanging out
with friends, we hope that this weekend is just what you
want it to be.

We do make one request. Be careful out there. Don’t
drink and drive. We know you’ve been warned a couple
times before but that can never be said enough.

Quote of the Week

“‘None of the other guys had any problems with their heads
falling off.’”’

— Senior Copy Editor Jason Kelley, reflecting on an
adolescent injury after which a chiropractor explained how
Kelley’s skull and the vertebrae in his neck were out of
alignment.

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Editors

Associate Editor
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor

Patricia Lopes, Andrew Waters
Alesha Priebe
Cathy Lopiccolo
Chris Baradel
Jason Kelley
Pam Kelley

Jay Plotkin
John Laney
Chris Leiphart
Jeff Woodland
Joshua Manning
Courtney Hall

Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant
Copy Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 7, 1991

 

 

 

 

 

Wortham refutes magazine’s claims

 

MY VIEW
By Prof. Anne Wortham

 

Some weeks ago I was contacted by the senior
editor of a magazine I had never heard of before
called The New American. He said he was writing
an article on black intellectuals who are critical of
mainstream approaches to civil rights and race rela-
tions policies, some of whom are friends and ac-
quaintances of mine.

When he told me of libertarian intellectuals
who had written for the magazine, I was surprised
that I had not heard of it. (I usually receive invita-
tions to subscribe to every libertarian or con-
servative publication that sprouts up.) But it was
on the basis of this representation by the editor and
his claim that he had interviewed people who
recommended me to him that I gave him the inter-
view. As it turns out, the magazine is a publica-
tion of the John Birch Society, an organization
which I have never regarded with. approval.

I talked to the editor at length about my ideas,
and even sent him some of my writings. But his
article completely misrepresents what I conveyed in
the interview. His most serious breach is his
demagogic and fallacious characterization of my
relationship with my colleagues and students at
Washington and Lee. No doubt this is as distress-
ful for students who have read the article as it is
for me.

I have written a letter of protest to the editor
that I feel obliged to share with the Washington
and Lee community. Below is the relevant excerpt
of the article, followed by the section of my letter
that addresses this matter. I very much regret that
my comments too were twisted in such a way as
to besmirch the University’s good name and totally
misrepresent the quality of life on our campus.

A professor of sociology at Washington and Lee
University and author of The Other Side of Rac-
ism, Wortham refuses to bend to the demands of the
academia thought police wno demana politically
correct thinking. She continues as an outspoken
champion of freedom and individualism. As a re-
sult, leftist students and faculty have carried out a
campaign that has successfully pressured the

Thanks from
Gulf soldier

February 11, 1991
Dear Washington and Lee students and faculty:
On behalf of my fellow servicemembers
currently serving in the Persian Gulf, I want to
thank you for your recent rally of support for our
effort to liberate Kuwait. Your voices of unity
and support crossed many miles to touch the
hearts of those serving aboard warships, at
airbases and in foxholes throughout the region.
Your support and patriotism are an important
element to our eventual success. In the difficult
days ahead we will draw on that support for
encouragement.

Sincerely,

CPT David Ridlon
U.S. Army

Class of '83

Religion debat
goes on...

Dear Mr. Bettendorf:

I respectfully acknowledge your efforts to
clarify and correct te various historical facts |
had cited in ‘‘The Christian West Is Not Perfect

 

University to deny her tenure. This year will be her,
last at Washington and Lee. Ironically, Wortham is
the only black professor at that university. Appar-
ently she is not ‘‘black’’ enough to satisfy her liber-
al white colleagues.

[EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is addressed
to a senior editor of The New American.)

Today one of my students informed me of the
appearance of the profile on me in your article on
‘‘Black Conservatives.’’ The student was surprised
to find me quoted in a John Birch Society publica-
tion, and concerned about your characterization of
the termination of my appointment at Washington
and Lee. I was shocked to learn that New Ameri-
can is a John Birch Society publication, that you
had interviewed me without disclosing your affilia-
tion, and distressed by the student’s report of what

_ he read. I have since read the profile and I am

“ outraged by your misrepresentation of my situation

‘and your slander of my colleagues and the students
at Washington and Lee....

Although I have had to contend with the
pressures of ‘‘political correctness’ all of my adult
life, that has not been the case at Washington and
Lee. Your —_ implication impugns the
University and those of us who are committed to
its mission. There has been no campaign by
students or faculty to pressure the University to
deny me tenure. On the contrary, most of the
students I have taught — including those who had
negative reactions to my courses — disagree with
the decision to deny my reappointment. Some even
wanted to wage a campaign protesting the deci-
sion, but I discouraged them. Indeed, it is the
continued support of students and their acknowl-
edgement of the positive impact of my courses on
their learning that enables me to continue teaching
with enthusiasm even in the face of the Uni-
versity’s rejection. I am heartened by the kind
concem and empathy these young people have
extended to me. I do my work in the certain
knowledge that on the whole they respect me as I
respect them. They don’t deserve your inclusion
of them in the ranks of students at other universi-
ties who are guilty of the educational barbarism
known as ‘‘political correctness.’’ You owe them
an apology.

Your conclusion that I am apparently - not
‘‘black’’ enough to satisfy my ‘‘leftist’’ white col-

(February 14), and I fully understand your point,
although I believe your rater anal love of
perfection handicapped your ability to understand
my point. But, as I said, your letter was well-
received. Whether I was trying to act as Univer-
sity’s Devil’s Advocate or Enlightener of the
Masses, I should have double-checked my facts
before whipping out my column in a fit of
passion, and not relied so heavily on memories
that extend as far back as my junior year in high
school.

I must, however, quibble with your on your
interpretation of Augustine’s life. Perhaps you
have forgotten (perhaps conveniently?) that
Augustine ‘‘experimented’’ with different sects of
Christianity before he established himself as a
paragon of orthodoxy. First he was a pagan, and
dallied in various pagan delights (such as
fornications), then he was a Manichaean (an
extremely rigorous and ascetic brand of heretical
Christianity), then he was a NeoPlatonist, and
then he joined the ranks of ‘‘orthodox’’
Christianity and was soon thereafter ordained
bishop of Hippo. Would you not question Pat
Robertson’s motives if he were to suddenly start
espousing the virtues of, say, Communism? What
if the Pope were to convert to Assyrian
Christianity (and thus start referring to the Virgin
Mary as ‘‘Mother of Christ’’ rather than
‘Mother of God).”’

I must also respond to your crack about Dr.
Silber’s article on multiculturalism, even though
you have since explained it to me. Are you
implying, perhaps, that I am one of those
supporters of ‘‘political correctness’’ who insists
on calling myself a Germano-lrish-penisless-

leagues is entirely your own and it is entirely
wrong; it reflects nothing I said to you. It is true
that I am not ‘‘black’’ enough for a few Washing-
ton and Lee students, but I have no evidence at all
that this is a problem for the faculty. If there are
any ‘‘leftist’’ faculty at W&L, I don’t know whe
they are. In any case, no faculty member has given
me reason to conclude that he or she views my
political philosophy as an intolerable attribute.
Civility, excellence, and honor are the ideals at
Washington and Lee, and people are not punished
for their ideas. There are no ‘‘thought police’ at
Washington and Lee.

Since I have no evidence that my colleagues in
the sociology department recommended against my’
reappointment for political reasons, I would never.
say that they did. And you wrong them by impos-
ing that explanation on their decision. If I told you.
anything it was what I have said to:other inquirers:
that’ my colleagues felt that my teaching (which*
some students thought was ‘‘over our head’’ and;
“‘boring’’) was costing the department in enroll-
ment and potential majors. I said I believed there’
were other factors involved that I have been unable
to ascertain, but I gave you no reason to conclude
that those factors were ideological in nature. How
is it possible that you can reach such a simplistic,
conclusion when I can’t?

You have been grossly unfair to me, to my
colleagues, the students and the University. Wash-
ington and Lee is a fine institution of learning, a.
I am very proud to be associated with it. If yc#
characterization of my experience here were tr
I would be very happy to leave. But the plain |
is that I do not want to leave.

Your statements and conjectures are sin
false, and I hope you will inform your reader:
your error. Please know that I am requesting
this letter be printed in the Washington and
student newspaper so that the University cc
munity will have no doubt about the high regar
have for students, faculty and staff. I hope that
this I can repair the damage caused by j

irresponsible demagoguery.

Sincerely,
Anne Wortham
Assistant Professor of Sociology

person-with-traces-of-English-Scottish-and-Welst.
ancestry -whose-ancestors-came-on-the
Mayflower-and-have-been-in-Virginia-since-the
17th-century-America? I should hope not! Or,
perhaps, do you think that I chose my majo:
(religion, which requires that I study other
cultures) and that I studied abroad last year
because I wanted to find as many ways to
denigrate and despise my own Western heritage
as possible? Get real, Mr. Bettendorf. There is no
one culture or civilization that is inherently better
than any other: that is an opinion I will defend
until my death. The danger of ethnocentrism in
any form is that we lose the opportunity to
enrich our own culture through healthy contact
with other cultures.

Laura C. Taylor

P.S. I hope that anyone other than Mr. Bettendorf
who might be reading this letter has not become
overly concerned about my seemingly arrogant
attitude; but if you have, then I suggest you get
an enema and lighten up! Mr. Bettendorf and I
have been friends ever since we were freshmen,
and he knows full well (I hope) how much I
enjoy giving him a hard time. I want everyone to
take very seriously what I said in the preceding
paragraphs, but I also want you to take it with a
grain of salt. Besides, | am graduating in June,
and thus I will not be around much longer to
pollute your minds.

[EDITOR'S NOTE: Due to limited space, we
would like to end for now this debate con-
cerning the relative value of the Christian
West and multi-culturalism. Thanks for the
letters.]

 

——— ee cme gimme: "emanate, Siemans” cme
The Ring-tum Phi, March 7, 199%
aay

 

 

 

     

 

ae

    
    

Hillel
honors
Judaism

By Tom Eisenhower
Staff Reporter

 

Hillel, a nationally affiliated W&L
Jewish student organization, is mak-
ing its presence felt on campus and
in Lexington.

The or-
ganization,
which has
about 12 mem-
bers, provides
‘ta Jewish iden-
tity on cam-
pus,’’ said
Hillel Trea-
surer Marc
Ackerman. One
of the club’s ...Hillel President
most important services is giving
students a way to celebrate religious

~—-

Doug Brown

 

Constru

 

cting Camelot

Fancy Dress workers prepare to dazzle students, faculty and alumni at “A Royal Festival at King
Arthur's Court.” Decorating for the 84th annual FD Ball began last weekend. The ball, featuring
Kings of Swing, will begin at 8 p.m. tomorrow night in Warner Center. Photo by Hal Waller.

holidays during the school year.
Hillel ‘‘is a chance for Jewish
students to get together once every
five or six weeks for a Sabbath din-
ner or to celebrate’’ religious hol-
idays, said club President Doug Bro-

 

 

Library to install new system

 

By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

 

How many times have you
waded through the library card cata-
logue, struggled with the call
number system and searched the
shelves, only to find the book you
want has already been checked out?

If this scenario sounds familiar,
don’t be discouraged. By the fall of
1991, the University Library will
install a computerized version of the
card catalogue, according to Head
Librarian Barbara Brown.

The on-line public access cata-
logue will enable users to locate
books, periodicals, and video and
audio cassettes within seconds. Any
student may enter a title, author,

subject. or key, word,, The. terminal.

will then. display, a, selection, which

can be further limited by language or

date, such as all works by Tolstoy in
Russian written before 1850.

‘We're hoping with this system,
students will use the collection more
efficiently,’’ said Brown.

In addition, this new system will
provide automated circulation and
automated acquisitions. These func-
tions do away with signing out books
manually, as well as computerizing
book orders and budget.

Eight terminals are anticipated for
the main floor of the undergraduate
library, according to Brown, with one
additional terminal located on every
floor.

Department library branches in
the journalism, geology, physics and
chemistry buildings, as well as the C-
school, will house one terminal each.

The system may also be accessed
from. the Jaw library, faculty, offices. .

or even student’s homes, if they haye
a personal computer and a modum.

 

ear Sf

.Head, Lib

 

Ane ft jicgt
Brown

rarian

wn. It ‘‘helps people remember the
holidays and their heritage,’’ Brown
added.

Ackerman said this function is
especially valuable during September,
when the “‘high holidays’’ of Rosh
Hashanah, the Jewish New Year and
Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement,
occur.

“These are very family oriented
holidays,’’ Ackerman explained. He
said Hillel gives students a com-
munity in which to celebrate them.

Lexington does not have a syn
agogue, so the club provides rides to
Roanoke or Staunton. Hillel also
holds a service in town in conjunc-
tion with its faculty adviser, W&L
Religion Professor Richard Marks,
Ackerman said.

In addition to providing support
for students, Hillel teaches about 10
to 15 local Jewish children about the
holidays, Brown said.

The club usually puts on some
activity for the children to remind
them of the specific event in Jewish
iis yn history commemorated by the holid-

ay.

 

 

Students act out diplomatic roles

 

By Sarah Drain

members attended, and Trammell said W&L had

Staff Reporter

 

Members of the Foreign Affairs Club at
Washington and Lee have been role-playing power-
ful world governments and attempting to achieve
peaceful resolutions to controversial topics through
debate.

Founded last year by junior Katherine Walther,
the Foreign Affairs Club allows students to study
politics and to further their public speaking skills,
said President Pete Trammel . Since last year, the
Foreign Affairs Club has attended three Model
United Nations conferences.

The club recently returned from Princeton
University over Washington Holiday. Seventeen

 

by J.R. Smith

Interviews and photos |

one of the top five delegations at the conference.

W&L’s delegations representing Germany and
a Special Political Committee won awards for best
delegations. Trammel said that W&L’s other
delegations were also very strong.

Junior Kevin Carl, one of the members of the
German delegation, worked in Germany for the
European Community during the summer and fall
term. By gaining political knowledge about
Germany first-hand, Trammel said Carl was well
prepared during the mock situation.

Trammel said there are 30 to 40 members at
large, many of whom are freshmen. Many of the
members participated in similar mock government
organizations while in high school.

Trammel said the freshmen are the most active
group in the club, and that he has been ‘‘really im-

 

 

pressed’’ by their contributions. Trammel said
current freshmen may occupy officers’ positions
next year.

Trammel said the ‘‘great thing about’ the club
is that there are no membership fees. There are
fees involved with the conferences, such as a $50
delegation fee when the members visited Princeton.
Trammel said students have low lodging expenses
by staying in dormitories.

Trammel said he is also considering hosting
a conference. Rather than have a large conference,
such as Model United Nations, Trammel said he
would like to start out small. Professors Craig Mc-
Caughrin and Milton Colvin are helping Trammel
organize the conference for next year.

Trammel said the group may travel to New
York City next year to participate in one of the
largest model United Nations Conferences.

 

     

 

   

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

Take Flight

Two free airline tickets for any-
where in the U.S. will be awarded
to the student who proposes the
most creative use of the tickets.
Send a statement explaining how
you would use the tickets to Dean
Howison, Payne Hall. Entries
must be submitted by April 1.

Run

Petitions for class elections are
now available outside Carol Calk-
ins’ office in the University Cen-
ter. Completed petitions, signed
by 50 members of the candidate’s
class, are due at a mandatory
meeting on Monday, March 11, at
5 p.m. in the E.C. Room. Elec-
tions will be held March 18, from
8 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Go Abroad

James Madison University’s Inter-
national Internship Program is
accepting applications until April
1. Internships for September 1991
and January 1992 are available in
11 countries for 110 students. For
information, call Judy Cohen at
703-568-6979.

 

GENERAL NOTES

Report
Learn how to get newspaper
internships and full-time jobs.
Register for a newspaper job
clinic run by real people in the
industry right now. Contact Prof.
Hampden Smith, 463-8432 for
more information. Deadline for
registration is March 11.

Join Quiz Bowl

There will be a meeting Monday,
March 11, in the University Cen-
ter for anyone interested in the
College Bowl Club. Upcoming
meets at Georgia Tech and Duke
will be discussed. Any questions?
Call Tim Gallagher at 464-5586.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what
you're up to? Leave a note in the
General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office.

DG Alums

Any Delta Gamma alumnae cur-
rently at the law school who
would like to form an Alumnae
Association with undergrad alums,
call Cathy at 464-4553.

 

 

 

BOOMER

from page 1

 

of hard work, he gave extensive
three-hour exams, and required his
students to have writing assignments
prepared for each class period.

However, Mollenhoff was able to
retain an understanding of the _pres-
sures and committmentsof the under-
graduate student, and all but the most
flagrant abuses of his good faith in
his students could be forgiven by
what he called ‘‘the milk of human
kindness,’’ which always seemed to
flow from his heart as he calculated
grades.

A classic Mollenhoff pose was
one of him reclining in a chair in his
office, discussing a. problem in gover-
nment over the phone with a U.S.
Senator or other prominent political
figure. He kept scrapbooks filled with
newspaper clippings about issues he
was working on, and despite his size
it appeared at times that he was
going to be buried under the ' avalan-
cheof information.

But no matter how busy he was,
those around him appreciated the way
he would always make time for them.

‘‘When you walked in his of-
fice,’’ said journalism professor Ro-
bert de Maria, ‘‘no matter how busy
he was, he always had a minute for
you.”

Senior Melinda Conkling said,
‘‘Although he was a busy man and
kept up with world affairs, he still
had time to do the little things, like
ask how the girls’ lacrosse team was
doing. He never wanted to lose touch
with the students, even though he

FD theme?

was in touch with everything else.’’

There are many things he taught
his students, but they all centered
around his ‘‘Seven rules of sound
investigative reporting.’’ He stressed
thorough record research and cor-
roboration of facts.

‘*He thought it was his duty to
see that justice was served in all
facets of life,’’ said sophomore Phil
Spears, ‘‘and he felt he had a sincere
obligation to teach us that ideal, as
well as precision and thoroughness in
all endeavors.”’

Mollenhoff’s contribuiions to stu-
dent growth at Washington and Lee
did not stop at the doors of the jour-
nalism building. Many journalism
non-majors who would otherwise
have never even set foot in Reid Hall
enrolled in his classes to see for
themselves what a Mollenhoff class
was like. :

‘‘He made an overwhelming im-
pression on me,’’ said senior David
Johnson, ‘‘You remembe: him more
than the material itself. I remember I
enjoyed the class just because of
him.’’

An Iowa native, Mollenhoff’s love
for his home state continued unabated
even through the time he spent in
Washington, D.C., and in Lexington.
He was buried in lowa today, gone
from the Washington and Lee cam-
pus, but certainly not to be forgot-
ten. Although he is with us no Ion-
ger, anyone who knew him can rest
assured that Clark Mollenhoff is
moving onward, and upward.

 

Hey...now ‘bout that

 

 

 

 

Amy Panella, °93, Baltimore,
MD -— ‘‘I’ve been working on -
the gym and I think it’s going to going.’’
look great.’’

 

Tom Ciyan, ’94, Fairfax, VA

“Tt sucks

‘cause I’m not = ‘‘The what?"’

Chris Bray, 91, Dunwoody, GA

 

 

Caroline Tsuji, °92, Oxnard, CA
= ‘‘After working so hard on it,
everyone else better like it.’’

 

Chip Ridge, ’93, FD Ceiling
Chairman, Louisville, KY = ‘‘It
sucks because John Flippen is
chairman.”’

 

 

 

 

John Flippen, ’92, FD Chair-
man, Florence, AL “lm
really proud of Chip’s ceiling.”’

 

 
SPORTS siieidili
enerals top Macon for first win

4

Golf among ||
nation’s elite «

 

Junior Jeff Roberts makes his move around a Randolph-Macon goals as the Generals beat the Yellow Jackets 11-5 in an Old
defender in Wednesday's lacrosse game. Roberts scored three Dominion Athletic Conference game. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

ss sssaceaedeeldadiehaainiaiaueaeeacuniaaaeise ie ccc
By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

It took a while, but the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s lacrosse team
finally got things going against Ran-
dolph-Macon Wednesday.

The Generals, ranked 13th in
Division III, scored the last seven
goals of the game after giving up a
goal early in the third quarter to win
their first game of the season 11-5.
Senior Clark Wight and junior Jeff
Roberts each had three goals to lead

  

tic, or just friends.

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

TWO GREAT NEW GAMES!
A Enchanted Evening and Getting to Know You Better
Both suitable for couples in any type of relationship, roman-

the attack.

“It looked like we started slow
because we just weren’t putting the
ball in the net,’’ said head coach Jim
Stagnitta. ‘‘We were doing what we
wanted to, but we were stuffed on
our first five opportunities.’’

W&L trailed 3-1 in the second
quarter when Stagnitta called a time
out with 12:10 left.

“*T just had to settle them down a
little bit,’’ the second-year coach said.
“I gave them the green light to be
aggressive on offense, and sometimes
I probably trust their judgment more
than I should, but they reacted well.

  

 

 

Monday - Saturday 10 a.m.-5p.m.
31S. Main Street, Lexing

on 463-3355

 

 

 

   
 
    
     
      

I just told them to settle down and
gave them a set to work out of, and
then let them go.’’

W&L responded with two goals in
25 seconds to tie the game at 3-3.
Wight and sophomore John Hunter
did the damage.

After Macon scored early in the
third quarter to forge ahead for the
last time at 5-4, W&L simply took
over the game. Again, W&L asserted
itself after a timeout.

Wight scored his third goal of the
day to tie the game off a feed from
Hunter 11 seconds after the timeout.
W&L took the lead for good with

 

just over one minute left in the quar-
ter when Roberts scored off a feed
from Wight.

W&L then scored five straight
goals in the fourth quarter, all in a
five minute span. Roberts had two
goals, and seniors Andy Guida and
Todd Garliss and junior Drew Anton
finished the scoring.

Offensively, Stagnitta was pleased
with the performance.

“We got some good goals,’’ he
said. ‘‘Our midfielders, Hunter, Wight
and Garliss, created all kinds of op-
portunities. Roberts decided that he
was just going to run by his man,

BA Se ee ge Sta Se rn ree m
see (ee te ars
x Sees oy .

‘ Tegede See Teka 2 Sit Pi *

11 S. Randolph Street

Now Carries
Rolling Stone Magazine
Mon.-Thurs, 11-8, Fri. 11-7, Sat. 11-5

 

COLOR PIN CARNIVAL

Over 50 waysto win money. __

 

 
 
   
  
 
    

   

  

and Drew Anton made some things
happen. I think he came into his own
today.”’

W&L’s defense was equally tough
as the offense. In the second half,
W&L forced R-MC into failed clears
on nine of 12 chances and picked up
43 ground balls to Macon’s 24.

“Our defense, especially [junior
Robert} Huke and [senior David]
Farace, picked the ball up and got
our offense going,’’ said Stagnitta.
‘(Sophomore Derek] Hutton con-
trolled the faceoffs, and [senior Mike]
Pardo picked up every loose ball. If
the ball is in his area, it’s his. He
works hard, and he has a knack for
picking up loose balls.’’

Senior Tom Costello made 13
saves on the day and didn’t allow a
goal in the final 24 minutes of ac-
tion.

“If Tommy just has to react, he’s
terrific,’’ said Stagnitta. ‘‘He’s got
some great reactions. He stuffed some
one-on-ones, and he also made good
decisions on clears.”’

W&L was successful on 15 of 24
clear attempts.

Next up for the Generals, 1-1, 1-
0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, is a Saturday afternoon clash
with Franklin and Marshall, the No.
7 team in Division II, on Wilson
Field. Despite the game falling imme-
diately after the Fancy Dress Ball,
Stagnitta is not worried about his
team being distracted.

‘‘We know we have the No. 7
team in the nation coming in,’’ he
said. ‘‘We know we have worked our
tails off for six weeks. I don’t think
one night is going to stand in the
way of what we want to do.

‘We will be ready to play when
we step on the field on Saturday.”’

The game will start at 2 p.m.

in preseason.

 

From W&L Sports Information «

 

Usually, the sophomore jinx is
something you’d want to avoid, ani
most definitely, it’s something you’d
rather not repeat. .

However, Washington and Leg
golf coach Buck Leslie wouldn't
mind it a bit of his own version of
the ‘‘sophomore’’ jinx stuck around)
for another year, or even two.

Leslie watched last year as @
quartet of sophomores — Clay Thom-
as, Brad Thoburn, Jay McKnight and
Dave Carroll — paced his team to its
best-ever finish at the NCAA Divi-
sion III national championships.

The Generals, winners of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference, fin-
ished seventh at nationals and Thom”
as and Thoburn were both named,
Division III All-Americans. Leslie’s
hoping those four former sophomores
along with senior co-captain Brian
Kopet will jinx his squad’s fortunes
once again. <

‘We have a very strong nucleug)
of returning lettermen,’’ said Leslidt
who is preparing for his 17th seasong
at the W&L golf helm. ‘‘We hav
proven quality players at the top o}
our lineup. However, we will have te
work very hard and find some quality
depth, if we are going to continue té
contend at the top.’’

The experts have put the Generals
among the elite already. Préseasor
polls had W&L as high as seventh ir
the nation. Leslie likes the attention
but the veteran coach isn’t going to

  
  
   
    
  
   
   
 
    
 

Q) Please see Golf page 5

 

| CRE OGRE cons) RID (

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

> D0 EEE EAD) ND () EP () NED () D-DD (CER

W&L Students, we welcome you to our shop for your
next hair cut. We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop
22 S. Main St., Lexington

 

: SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
= We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

 

464-6666

Affordable

 

 

_ You do not need to be a League bowler to bowl! _

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials
$1.50 per Game $1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl Bowling
Every Friday Night Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
11 PM- 2 AM Win FREE games

US HWY - 11 North 464-BOWL (2695)

 

Elegance

For reservations
call

703-366-2444
ay

|
;
}
i
i:

 

 

»

SPORTS

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
team used the simple combination of
good pitching and timely hitting to
sweep a season-opening three-game
set from visiting West Virginia Tech
last weekend.

The three wins to start the season
equal W&L’s total in 1989, when the
Generals recorded their first winning
season since 1972.

W&L got a spectacular perform-
ante from its ace in the opener on
Friday and then got a surprise from a
pitcher whose earned run average was
over 10 last season to start Saturday’s
double-header.

On Friday, junior Steve Momorel-
la, a first-team All-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference performer last
year, was simply overpowering. The
right-hander allowed just five hits and
one earned run while striking out 15
in a 5-3 complete game win.

While Momorella’s gem could
have been expected, head coach Jeff
Stickley might never have dreamed
for what happened in the first game
of Saturday’s double-dip.

Junior T.J. Daly took the mound
and hurled a five-hit shutout, leading
the way for a 6-0 win. Daly didn’t
allow a runner past second base in
earning his first career shut-out. Last
year, in five starts, Daly had an un-
flattering ERA of 10.41.

In the second game of the twin-
bill, Daly rested his pitching arm and
warmed up his bat, leading the way
in a 8-4 win with two RBI. Freshman
Kevin Emerson pitched four innings
of one-run relief to earn the win.

W&L hit an astounding .303 for the
series,

3 Bedroom Apartment

Living room, kitchen and bathroom. Located 5
miles from campus. Route 631. Barn and pasture
for horses. Available June Ist. Call 463-4856.

Leadoff man Brian Harper was
eight of 13 in the series and stole
four bases. Junior Fred Renneker hit
only .200, but stole three bases and
scored four runs. Freshman Eric
Peifer backed Daly’s pitching with an
RBI triple and scored three runs on
the weekend. Daly hit .333 and had
four RBI.

While Momorella and Daly turned
in spectacular pitching performances,
their battery-mate, senior Chris Kav-
anagh says the team’s hitting could
still get better.

“*Steve pitched well, and T.J. was
on,’’ said Kavanagh. ‘‘But we still
haven’t come around at the plate.”’

The Generals hit a paltry .235 as
a team last season, and while they
improved on that mark drastically in
the first three games, Kavanagh says
it can still get better.

‘We've improved a lot,’’ said the
Generals’ catcher, ‘‘but we’ve still
got some work to do. I can’t wait to
see what happens when we all start
hitting the way we can. It should be
something.”’

Daly, who doubles as a first base-
man when he is not pitching, credits
the early improvement in hitting to
hard work and some new coaches.

‘‘We worked a good deal in the
fall,’’ he said. ‘‘We’re two or three
weeks ahead of the game right now.
We've also got two new coaches
working with us.”’

Mike Lilly and Jack Baizley
joined Stickley’s staff this year. Baiz-
ley is helping out with the hitting.

“It’s great having a hitting in-
structor,’’ Daly said. ‘‘He’s got us
thinking at the plate, and last year we
were just hoping while we were
batting. We’ve improved a lot, but
we can still get better.’’

Lilly and Baizley have freed

 
   
    
   

nat Tt a dba

  
  

 

Holly Farms -G

  

Mth on
LOW PRICES
EVERY DAY!

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

The Ring-tum Phi, March 7, 1991

 

W&L hitting sweeps WV Tech

 

 

Junior T.J. Daly fires a strike in his complete game shutout win
Saturday over West Virginia Tech. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Stickley up to work with the pitchers,
instead of having to concentrate on
everyone, and that has been a help,
Daly said.

Daly also said the team is more
experienced, and that is another rea-
son for the early improvement.

‘‘Some of us have played a full
year now,”’ he said. ‘‘And we’ve all
improved. Now, all the way through

the line up, we’ve got people who
are improved and are more experi-
enced. And we should improve more
as the season goes on.”’

The Generals will look to get
more positive experience today.
Momorella takes the mound looking
for his second win against Division I
Holy Cross on Smith Field.

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

@)) 203 N. Main St.

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

463-9455 @@@

 

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee
men's and women’s tennis teams
opened their Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference seasons with
wins on Wednesday.

The women did not lose a set
and dominated Emory and Henry
9-0. Only one of the 18 sets
played was closer than 6-1.

 

The men faced a bit tougher

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK ~

of a challenge in Hampden-Syd-
ney. W&L was extended to dou
bles after H-SC took two singles |
matches, but the Generals clinch-
ed a 7-2 win by sweeping all |
three doubles matches.

The W&L women’s lacrosse
team opens its season Friday. The
Generals, who finished last year
with a 6-5 record, will host Frost
burg State on Liberty Hall Field
at 3 p.m.

 

 

Golf

from page 4

 

get carried away.

“The polls are nice, but they
don’t mean a lot to us right now,”’
said Leslie, whose .877 career win-
ning percentage perhaps speaks louder
than any poll ever could. ‘‘The polls
will be more meaningful at the end
of next spring.”’

Polls or no polls, not many can
quibble with the Generals’ store of
talent. In addition to being an All-
American last year, Thomas was All-
ODAC and Golfer of the Year. He
was medalist at the Ferrum Invitation-
al and finished fourth at the State
Intercollegiate Championships.

Joining him on the All-ODAC
team was McKnight, who in his two
ODAC Championships has finished
no lower than second. Thoburn was
hotter than any golfer at the end of
1990, finishing fifth at the ODAC
Championships before earning All-
America honors with an 18th-place
finish at the NCAAs.

Beyond those three, Lesiie has
senior Kopet, a consistent scorer who

had W&L’s low round in tw
matches last year; Carroll, an up
and-down player whose openin;
round was crucial to W&L’s ODA‘
title last year; and Bernie Porter,

sophomore who shot a 74 in th
W&L Fall Classic. Leslie also
ed to freshman Scott Robinson ar

junior Cliff Burrow as players wl

could contribute this season.

The Generals have the usual ste
slate of ODAC round-robin maiche
in addition to a few new stops on th
1991 schedule, including the pres
gious Dick Gordon Invitational
South Carolina. W&L will be poi
ing toward the same success of th
sophomores of 1990, and now a yeai
later, they all could be a year better
too.

‘*We, as a team, have to be sur
that our work ethic is greater than
our expectations,’ Leslie said. ‘We
must practice hard and smart ecac!
day and play each contest as it come
up on the schedule. Then we cai
look at the polls.’’

point

Help Wanted

Life Guards - Lexington Golf & Country Club.
May 25 - Sept. 2. Must be certified. Salary Range:
$4.50-$5.00 per hour. Contact: Mr. Paige 463-4141

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NYA PRS TIS TET R ELE RE EES ES

aes

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, March 12, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, March 12, 1991 In |

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Fed

 

-
B 4
e
*s
«

*
-

 
W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, March 7, 1991

 

Rules for a perfect FD knight

 

By Jennifer Zambone and
Pamela Kelley of the Phi staff
aa Speier

In the past week, our campus has
been inundated with several types of
stories about The Fancy Dress Ball.
[he printed stories have dealt
primarily with the ball’s theme and
explorations thereof. You have heard
stories via the grapevine which were
interesting, somewhat informative and
which focus around one major issue:
FD weekend is a time of heartbreak
and romance. For this reason, it is
strikingly appropriate that the aura of
chivalry and amour which are key to
the tradition surrounding King Ar-
thur’s Court, somewhat resembles the
tradition of FD.

You are probably wondering how
to make this weekend the perfect one,
or at least a bearable one. You may
find comfort in knowing that the
questions conceming correct behavior
in a potentially romantic encounter
have been pondered for centuries, and
never more so than in the Middle
Ages and the works of Arthurian
Literature of the period. It would
seem doubly fitting if, upon trying to
solve any possible romantic dilemmas
of the weekend, you look toward
figures in Arthurian legend and
medieval courtier Andreas Capellanus’
Rules of Courtly Love to guide your
conduct in affairs of the heart.

Ladies first. Girls, the first rule
of the evening is not to follow the
examples of Queen Guenevere or La
Beale Isoud when planning a poten-
tially romantic encounter. Famous
lovers they may be, but both women
were primarily known for their ex-
traordinary shrewishness. Isoud, who
was constantly paranoid, tried to kill
her faithful handmaiden, and

QO ee ae

)

23 N. Main St.
> Lexington, VA 24450

Guenevere through her constant nagg-
ing and overwhelming jealousy literal-
ly drove Launcelot insane.

Although Capellanus said ‘‘He (or
she) who is not jealous cannot love’’,
these ladies carried their jealousy to
extremes. So before you start to nag
your date about his choice of frater-
nity brothers, the way he looks, acts
or any other such topic, remember
these ladies’ example and curb the
tongue a bil.

Depending upon the situation,
better examples to emulate are
provided by Sir Caradoc’s wife and
Dame Lynette, the Damosel Sauvage.
If your date is ‘‘a knight in shining
armour,’”’ be like Sir Caradoc’s wife
and remain faithful to him for at
least the evening. If your date doesn’t
care or treats you in an inconsiderate
manner, follow Dame Lynette’s lead:
do your own thing, play the field and
maybe you will still derive some
enjoyment from the evening.

The method of acquiring an FD
date is known to be a bit haphazard.
Thus if halfway through the evening,
or from the very beginning, you
begin to question your judgement,
just remember the following:

i. ‘* Boys do not love until they
arrive at the age of maturity.”’

ii. ‘‘Good character alone makes
any man worthy of love.”’

iii. ‘‘A man who is vexed by too
much passion usually does not love.”’

iv. "No one should be deprived of
love without the very best

of reasons."

v..* A man in love is always
apprehensive.”’

Next, gentlemen, your task in
accordance with the tradition of
courtly love, is a difficult one, for
this type of romance centered around
the worship of women and required

ren

Opp agave’

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

(703)463-5968 ¢

DP DIVLS QV OVP LP PV PPP LP PPP OPAPP DOP

 
  
 
    
 
   
   
    
    
    
      
     
 

  
 

March 18, 1991.

resume to Director

will be required.

¥ the

efferson

florist to The Homestead
Ten East Nelson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

JOB
OPPORTUNITY

Applications from members of the Class of
1991 who wish to be considered for W&L’s
alumni staff associate position for the
1991-92 academic year aredue by Monday,

should submit a letter of application and

James D. Farrar, Jr.
The position is currently held by Joel
Smith ’90 and becomes available on July 1.
A personal interview for each applicant

Graduating seniors

of Alumni Programs
in the Alumni Office.

© Teleflora’

a
a

 

      
    

to live up to the ideals of the lady he
loved. Needless to say, you have
your work cut out for you. Don’t
despair, however, for Arthurian litera-
ture is rife with role models for you
to follow.

If you wish to win your lady’s
love, do not behave like Sir Kay and
carp about everything and anything in
sight. Do not complain about a) the
price of tickets, b) the price of din-
ner, c) the price of flowers, d) anyth-
ing else concerning money. Your
date does not want to hear a price
list; she wants to hear more interest-
ing things murmured in her ear.
Furthermore, heed Capellanus, who
said ‘‘Love is always a stranger in
the home of avarice.”’

The best technique to study until
you know it forward backwards and
even sideways, belongs to Sir
Gawain, pre-Malory Gawain to be
precise.

If ever a man, can light a
woman’s fire, it was this guy.
Although Gawain was married at
least three times and was an active
participant in numerous one night
stands in between, sexual exploits did
not solely gamer him his good
reputation. A popular quote uttered
during the afterglow by many of his
paramours succinctly summed up his
performance: ‘‘Sweet Jesu, what a
man!”’

Gawain’s secret was that he was
a first and foremost a gentleman. He
knew the laws of courtesy and
obeyed them. He would not dream
of scamming on his best friend’s date
nor of deserting his own date and he
would never offend a lady. Witness
his encounter with Dame Ragnell, a
position which some of you might
think parallels your own.

Gawain, through an arrangement

made by his uncle, marries the Lady
Ragnell who was indisputably one of
the ugliest women ever. (I assure you
whatever low opinion you may have
of your date’s looks, she is no where
near Ragnell’s league)

On their wedding night,
however, he kissed her, and she was
transformed into one of the most
beautiful ladies in Camelot His
chivalric behavior allowed her to
sustain her beauty and she is con-
sidered his greatest love.

So boys, behave like Sir Gawain
and your date will have nothing
about which to complain, and if she
ever says anything nasty about the
way you behaved, you can sue her
for slander.

However, like the ladies, there are
a few of Capellanus’ rules that you
should take into consideration.

i. ‘It is not proper to love any
woman whom one would be

ashamed to seek to marry.”

ii. “A true lover considers noth-
ing good except what he thinks will
please his beloved.”

iii. ‘‘"Every act of a lover ends in
the thought of his beloved.’

iv. ‘That which a lover takes
against the will of his

beloved has no relish.’’

v. ‘tA lover can never have
enough of the solaces of his
beloved.”’

Didn't I say that you had the
harder task?

Well, there it is, how everyone
desirous of an amorous time should
conduct themselves, following ex-
amples of some of the best medieval
role models ever. Last, there is one
key point which everyone, regardless
of sex, should know:

‘Love can deny nothing to love.”’
But don’t forget that chastity belt...

 

 

Mon-Fri 9-5 /
130 S. Main St.

 
 

pn otenT nen

oe
PHONE: 463 - 1712

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA *

Sat 9-12 noon
463-7969

 
 

 
   

 

¥v

* FAX * BINDING « FLYERS
* PERSONALIZED INVITATIONS »
* LABELS *» TRANSPARENCIES *

=n

FAX #: 463 - 6918
ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

WEEKLY CALENDAR

Fancy Dress Weekend.

Law School Spring Holiday begins.

WOMEN'S LACROSSE: Generals vs. Frostburg College.

Liberty Hall Field.

MATH COLLOQUIUM: "On the Partial Differential Equation
bu+u4+u® » 0," Joseph A. Cima, U.N.C., Chapel Hill.
Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3 p.m. in Room 2,
Public invited.

FANCY ORESS BALL: Warner Center.

3 p.m.

3:30 p.m.

9p.m.

1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Der Rosenkavalier (R. Strauss).
WLUR-FM (91.5).
MEN'S LACROSSE: Generals vs. Franklin & Marshall. Wilson Field

AWAY ATHLETICS: OUTDOOR TRACK (W): Davidson Invitational

2p.m,

3 p.m.
4:30 p.m,

BASEBALL: Generals vs. Bridgewater College. Smith Field.

GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A reading by author
Peter Carey. Reception to follow. Northen Auditorium,
University Library. Public invited.

12Noon WA&L Employees Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Lunch.
Room 114, University Center.

COMPUTER SCIENCE COLLOQUIUM: "Local Area

Networks,” Bert Dempsey, University of Virginia. Room 25,
Robinson Hall, Refreshments at 2:30 in Room 2. Public
invited.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Hollins College. Varsity Courts.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT; ! siornship
Workshop. Room 109, University Center.

AWAY ATHLETICS: MEN'S TENNIS: James Ma: ison.

LECTURE: “Upper Canadian Electoral History, “337 - 1866,"
Elwood Jones, Trent University, Peterborough, Ontario.
Room 7, Newcomb Hall, Public invited.

3 p.m.

3:30 p.m.
4p.m.

7 p.m,

3 p.m.
8 p.m.

MEN'S LACROSSE: Generals vs. Roanoke College. Wilson Field
CONCERT: Scottish Chamber Orchestra, conducted by
Jukka:-Pekka Sarasate, Lenfest Center.

 

    

os ww

—

 

 

 

Rockbridge Music

For the best in acoustic and electric in-
struments, amps, and accessories at dis-
counted prices.

463-5455 205 N. Main St.

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

ait e Redken

     
 
 

  
  
     
    
 

¢ Paul Mitche

 George’s
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

le Sebastian L

 

 

Have a
Happy, Safe
Fancy Dress

Weekend

 

 

Large Farm House
In Country

10 miles west (10 minutes)
Recently Remodeled.

5 Bedrooms
Lots of Outdoors
Available June |st

463-6575 Office
463-2868 Home

MALS AAA TRS SARL

rs

 

Robby Jones

703/463-2022

Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

    
    

LEE HI RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

  

Route 11 North

   

Open 24 Hours

 
   
    
    
    
 

 

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual
or student organization needed to
promote Spring Break trip. Earn
money, free trips and valuable work
experience. CALL NOW! Inter-
Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013.

aqudiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

Zi Rollerblade.

 

   
   
  
  
      

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

Sales & Rentals

LOVE sanoas

 

 

 

 

Leaner

 

 

%

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oe
on”
March 8, 9 and 10

Caravans

121 West Nelson Street/464-3500
Open daily 10 AM - 6 PM
Sunday Noon - 6 PM

 
 

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd's)
464-3000

 

 

 

 

i
o

*

 

7

 

 

 
