~

¥]

Dorm counselor takes aim at Spectator -- see page 3

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 6

 

 

Study break

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

IFC heads break rules

Freshmen say Lewis gave beer, Skarda dirty rushed

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

Interfraternity Council President Goodloe Lewis gave
beer to a freshman during Rush, and IFC Vice-President
Michael Skarda dirty rushed a freshman, both of which
are violations of IFC Rush regulations, according to two
freshmen.

Freshman Trevor Norris said Lewis gave him beer at
the Hollins Apartment Party on Tuesday, Sept. 11, during
the first week of Rush.

‘‘We were sitting there rapping. I had had a beer,
but I put it down when I saw Goodloe. We were talk-
ing and I told him I was going to go look for my
roommate. Before I left, he said, ‘Hey, man, do you need
a beer?’ I said ‘yes’ and he went and got me one,”’
Norris said.

Lewis would not comment on the specific incident,
saying he had responded to those charges two weeks ago

House faces
drug charges

Pi Phi under investigation for
offering drugs during rush

Howison said he had talked to

 

By Jason Kelley

in an interview with the Phi and that he felt he didn’t
need to comment on them again.

‘If he wants to bring it up as a Rush violation, he
should bring it before the board and we will investigate
it,’’ Lewis said.

Jeffrey Mikita, also a freshman, said that Skarda made
disparaging remarks about other fraternities to Mikita
while he was at Skarda’s fraternity house.

‘In my case, the time I got the worst dirty rushing
was when ... Mike, who already knew me — he knew
my name — grabbed me a beer, took me back to his
room and told me how certain other houses were hor-
rible and how I should be at’’ his house, Mikita said.

Skarda originally said he did not remember the
incident.

‘*I wish I could remember that incident. If he says I
did it, then I suppose I did. If I had a lot of liquor in
me, it’s possible,’’ Skarda said.

Skarda later said he doubted the incident occurred.

‘I have wracked my brain trying to remember. I
don’t believe I did that,’’ he said.

Skarda also agreed that Mikita’s complaint should
have been brought before the IFC.

‘tHe should have handled it through the IFC and not
through the Phi,’’ he said.

Skarda said he thought Mikita’s accusations warranted
an EC investigation.

‘*As far as I’m concerned, this should not be a Phi
investigation,’ he said, ‘‘This should be turned over to
the BC.’

Mikita said, ‘‘The thing I find most ironic is that
Mike Skarda stood up at the rush orientation meeting and
said there should be no dirty rush, and that if there is by
any house you should come up and talk to him.”’

Skarda agreed that dirty rush is a Rush violation.

‘I don’t approve of dirty rush and I don’t think it’s
right,’’ he said.

Mikita said, in his opinion, dirty rush reflects badly
on houses that do it.

‘I’m not saying this just to screw someone,”’ he said,
‘but every freshman I talked to said when they’re dirty
rushed, they’re immediately turned off on that house.’

 

OKE
K®

THE SNAG

 

 

 

Attack
reports
continue

Wa&L seniors cite
Sunday attack

 

By Macon Miles

 

 

Garnet Wilbourne, a W&L

under the watchful eye of
Cyrus McCormick, the 19th
century Rockbridge Countian

crop by Inventing the reaper,

allowed the Collonade to
compete with University
Library for the study
atmosphere of choice.
Staff Photo by Chris
Leiphart.

junior, hits the books yesterday

who made cotton a viable cash

thus perpetuating slavery in the
South. Mild temperatures have

Staff Reporter

Pi Kappa Phi is under investiga-
tion for allegedly offering or giving
illegal drugs to freshmen during
Rush, according to Dean of Students
David Howison.

“The Dean of Students office, in
conjunction with Dean Ruscio (Assis-
tant Dean of Students in charge of
freshmen), did a preliminary inquiry
and at this point the investigation is
still open,’’ Howison said.

Howison refused to say whether
the Lexington police were involved in
the investigation.

Pi Phi President Skip Sugarman
vehemently denied the allegations that
members of his fraternity gave drugs
to freshmen. ‘‘I have no control over
the rumors floating around campus,”’
he said.

‘I asked every member of the
fraternity individually, on their honor
and witnessed by two officers of the
house, if they had offered any drugs
to freshmen,’’ he said. ‘‘Every one of

members of the fraternity about the
problem and had been in consultation
with Sugarman. He also, noted that
University President John Wilson is
not involved in the investigation.

Ruscio said he understood that
there were allegations of a specific
member of the Pi Phi giving drugs to
a specific freshman, but he refused to
say who was involved or how the
Dean’s office learned of the allega-
tions.

‘‘There’s not nearly enough hard
facts to know which way to go at
this point,’’ Ruscio said.

Ruscio said that he and Dean
Howison were working together on
the investigation and that he did not
know if the police were involved.

Sugarman said his fraternity
would not stand for anyone who gave
out drugs to freshmen.

“My position on this, and the
houses -- we voted on this -- is that
if someone were offering a freshman
drugs, they have no business being in
this house,’’ he said. ‘‘And if they

sat across from me and lied, they
have no business being in_ this

 

 

LE

 

 

 

Staff Reporter

 

Lexington police are investigating
an assault on two Washington and
Lee students who said they were at-
tacked by a group of men early Sun-
day morning.

Seniors John Phoenix and Chris
Berdy said they were harassed by the
black men as they walked on Ran-
dolph Street between 2 and 2:30 a.m.
Sunday.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said the men allegedly fol-
lowed Phoenix and Berdy a few
blocks to Henry Street, where they
exchanged blows. ‘‘Berdy was struck
numerous times in the back of the
head, but no visible injuries resulted.
Phoenix suffered a laceration of the
lower right side of the lip,’’ Beard
said.

Beard said the case is under in-
vestigation.Phoenix and Berdy claim
to be able to identify the men who
attacked them.

Police reported that a group of
youths raided a fraternity party last
Saturday and and another group of

 

 

them said no.”’

 

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

When the Executive Committee
begins budget deliberations tonight,
they will face concerns posed by Stu-

» dent Activities Board Chairwoman

Kathleen Duwel about the relation-
ship of the SAB and the Student Bar
Association.

Duwel expressed concern the SAB
in past years has been held account-
able for involvement of law students
in SAB-sponsored events because the

_ SAB is funded by the student activi-

*

ties fund. The SBA, however, re-
ceives a budget for law school enter-
tainment from the student activities
fund as well.

The SBA usually recovers most
of the law students’ contribution to
the student activities fund. Much of it
is allocated to class parties, which are
not advertised on the undergraduate
campus, though Duwel said past ECs
have expected the SAB to advertise
its functions on both campuses.

Duwel also said a substantial
amount of SBA money goes to the
purchase of alcohol, while the EC
ordered that the SAB purchase no

school.’’

alcohol with student body funds.

The SBA charged a fee of $51 a
law student, which will supplement
the student activities funding for a
1990-91 projected total of $62,111
available. More than $11,000 of that
budget is specifically designated to
purchase and serve alcohol in the
1990-91 SBA budget request. The
SBA requested $40,839 fron the EC
this year, $4,169 more than law stu-
dents contribute to the student activi-
ties fund for EC disbursement. Seco-
nd-year Law Class President David
Giles said such an allocation is war-
ranted,

 

 

men harrassed W&L students leaving

 

‘SAB, SBA divided on purpose of student fee

‘I feel that most of our enter-
tainment comes from the SBA bud-
get,’’ Giles said, though he does
maintain that the SAB has an obli-
gation to the law students.

Giles noted that the SBA budgets
many events where alcohol is not
served, Moreover, he cited the Out-
ing Club, an SBA-sponsored group,
as an example of undergraduate use
of student dollars granted to the SBA.
Giles said undergraduates have priori-
ty in using Outing Club equipment.

Giles also said the SBA request is

 

a bar last Sunday. One woman was
reported injured in the incident Satur-
day night.

Despite the latest incident, Beard
said he was pleased with the relative-
Renee 4 ly uneventful weekend. Only eight

— arrests were made for minor in pos-
session and three arrests for drunken
in public. Most of these were stu-
dents from other schools, Beard said.

Concerning tear night Beard said,
“Tt has been a whole lot better than
in years past.”’

Every other Thursday, the presi-
dents of the fraternities meet with the
police. ‘‘I believe the student rela-
tions program has helped a whole
lot,’’ Beard said. ‘‘I’m very pleased
with the student body this year. I’m
pleased with the cooperation of the

 

 

Q Please see SAB page 6

Kathleen Duwel

students this year when it comes to
noise violations or confrontations.’

White males predominate in new faculty crop

 

By Andrew Schneider
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee hired 16 new faculty
members this year, but only four of them are
women and none is black.

‘‘We are very interested in having both
women and minorities join the faculty, but we
are always guided by the principle of hiring
the most talented and best person in the
pool,’’ Dean of the College John Elrod said.

W&L will never hire someone just be-
cause that person is a female or a minority,
Elrod said, unless that person is also the best-
suited for the job.

Pamela Simpson, an art history professor
and the only female full professor and
department head at W&L, said, ‘The scenario

that you'll hire only the best qualified,
regardless of whether they’re women or
blacks, is a little simplistic. There are all
sorts of things that come into the decision-
making process,”’

New faculty members are more likely to
be male, Simpson said, because they are
expected to fit into the predominately male
W&L atmosphere easier than women and
minorities.

Elrod said the university tries to get as
many women and minorities as possible into
the applicant pools. Advertising openings in
journals targeted to black people, writing to
graduate school deans to inform them of
openings and the minority All But Disserta-
tion (A.B.D.) program are examples of
W&L’s effort to attract minority faculty mem
bers, he said.

A major difficulty of getting a repre-
sentative and diverse group of faculty
members is that the pool of women and black
candidates with Ph.D.’s is so small, Elrod
said. In 1989, he said, women received only
38 percent of the Ph.D.’s in the United
States. For blacks that number was only 800,
half of which were in education — a field not
taught at W&L.

‘‘We have to compete with every other
top college and university in the country for
the 400’’ black ‘‘Ph.D.’s in the fields that
we're trying to make appointments,’’ he said.

Jarvis Hall, visiting minority A.B.D.
professor who is one of only two black
faculty members at W&L, thinks more can be
done to increase the number of minority fac-
ulty members here.

‘‘The limited pool issue is a real one,”’

Jarvis said. ‘‘But speaking in general and not
just of Washington and Lee, the limited pool
issue is sometimes used as a convenient way
of saying, ‘Well, we just can’t get them.’ But
the next question has to be what are you
doing to attract and compete for this limited
pool.”

Professor Bruce H. Herrick, a professor of
economics who helped conduct the search for
new faculty members in the Commerce
School, said that he often asked himself the
question, ‘‘If I were black and my ancestors
were slaves how would I feel about coming
to a place where Lee, who fought very
valiantly and effectively to maintain my
ancestors in slavery, is buried?’’

But Hall said, ‘‘It obviously didn’t hinder
me from making the decision to come here.’’
Hall said important things to him were the

‘opportunity to teach what I wanted to teach
and the opportunity to teach very good stu-
dents,”’

Ann Wortham, an assistant professor of
sociology and the only black tenured
professor at W&L, said she thinks it is wrong
for W&L or any other school to make it a
priority to hire a diverse faculty.

‘‘The University’s purpose is to hire the
most qualified people to teach and not to
duplicate every facet of the larger external
social environment,’’ she said.

But Simpson says it is important to have
a diverse faculty because it provides role
models for people like women and minorities.
“If you’re a young black student and the
only other black faces on campus are janitors
and food workers, then what's the subtle mes-
sage there about where you belong?”’
 

 

 

OPINION

When honor. is
used to conceal

So much talk about honor and so little indication of it.

Today’s issue of the Phi contains a story about al-
legations of rush violations committed by the top two
officials of the Interfraternity Council. That’s the bad news.

The worse news is that one of those named in the story,
Michael Skarda, seems intent on sweeping the revelation of
the scandal under an Executive Committee rug. Skarda
threatened to turn the investigation of his alleged Rush
violation over to the EC; a move that, if successful, would
prohibit further discussion of the case. According to White
Book regulations, once an honor investigation begins,
nothing can be written or spoken about the case.

There is an old journalistic tenant that says if truth and
falsehood are allowed to grapple freely in the arena of
public discourse, truth will always prevail eventually. That
belief, among other things, is what keeps us going when
public figures bluster their way around probing questions
and refuse to give straight answers. ‘‘Just keep the matter in
the forefront of the public’s attention,’’ we tell ourselves,
‘‘and sooner or later the truth will be revealed — for
whomever’s benefit.”’

Unfortunately, Skarda doesn’t, in our opinion, seem to
want to let truth and supposition battle publicly in this case.
He appears intent on keeping the accusations against him out
of the public eye. He is threatening to take an honor case
before the EC that is invalid on its face — nobody is
accusing anyone of lying at all here.

The freshman said Skarda dirty rushed him, and the best
:| reply Skarda could muster was that he might have done it
:| but — by golly — he really can’t remember. The freshman
‘| isn’t accusing Skarda of an honor violation; he is accusing
Skarda of fracturing Rush rules the other fraternities trusted
him to enforce and uphold. This is a problem not addressed
by the White Book. And since Skarda can’t seem to
remember whether he dirty rushed or not, it doesn’t appear
from our viewpoint that he has a solid recollection of facts
on which to base any charges of a breach of the Honor
Code.

It should not be tolerated that he could hush up public
discussion of the allegations, and silence debate on the
repercussions that would follow swiftly and surely if the
accusations are in fact true.

In order for our principle of student government to work,
we must be able to hold our representatives accountable for
their failures as well as their triumphs.

Skarda is: rendering.asunder the very fabric of the Honor
Code, perverting and debasing it to cover up for the wrong-
doing that he may (or may not) be responsible for. How
honorable, we ask, is it to use the confidentiality of an
honor investigation to prevent the W&L community from
knowing the truth about what really happened?

Nowhere in his statements printed today does Skarda
accuse the freshman of being less than forthright, so why
therefore does he desire to take the matter before the EC?

It would be logical for a neutral observer to wonder why
Skarda wouldn’t want our community to judge the facts in
an open, public forum if he really believes he is innocent of
:| dirty rushing. That way, everyone could make up their own
:| mind as to the veracity of his denials. Perhaps that is
» | exactly what Skarda fears the most.

President Wilson charged the seniors with providing
| leadership and setting the proper example for the classes to
‘| follow. Skarda’s desire to close off discussion of the
allegations against him is not the type of leadership this
campus needs.

The two freshmen acted nobly and courageously in
bringing forth their stories of hypocrisy at the very top of
the IFC. We ask Skarda to act equally bravely and
honorably by letting each member of our community make
up their minds about the charges against him.

 

 

ey

The Ring-tum Phi,

September 27, 1990

 

  

  

IFC WARNING
All Dirty RUSH
trespassers
will be

pre secutect,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

: f Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208

of the University Center,*by noon on Tuesday to appear in that

week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
. Post Office Box:899
Lexington; Virginia
24450

enna

 

 

 

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

 

Every year it gets cold. The leaves begin
changing colors, the grass stops growing and every
cricket in Virginia migrates into my bedroom to
spend the fall and winter communicating in their
native chirping language. Initially, I try to tolerate
the crickets and their ear drum-piercing chirping
antics. Next, I kindly return them to their natural
habitat in my front yard. But somehow, the crick-
ets always return. I wonder how they keep getting
in the house. Maybe my landlord, in an under-
handed attempt to torture me, built a secret cricket
entrance into my. house. Finally; when. I ,can.no
longer take the chirping, I normally round up the
crickets in the middle of the night and angrily
avenge myself by flushing them down the toilet
into the sewer, which is probably even colder than
my front yard.

This year, however, I hired a friend’s expert
cricket-catching dog (half-beagle, half-hound) to
exterminate my house. The dog, whose name is
Frick, represents everything I hate in dogs. Frick is
a female and rodent-sized, which contradicts my
definition of a dog. Dog: (Dog) n. a big, hairy,
male canine creature who salivates heavily,
devours cow cartilage in a matter of seconds,
parts his hair with his tongue, and feels that it

“Dorm Nazi’
clarification

The recent ‘‘dorm Nazi’’ article in the Spec-
tator requires at least one clarification.

It mentioned that ‘‘pass keys were used’’ last
spring by dorm counselors searching rooms for
alcohol. In fact, as the Phi accurately reported at
the time, one pass key was used in two rooms
by one counselor. It was wrong. He made a
mistake, and I told him so.

I do not know if he agreed with me. I sus-
pect he did not. He was a frequent contributor to
the Spectator, and | recall several good-natured
debates with him about the course of liberal
jurisprudence in this country. He decried the
tendency of ‘‘liberal’’ judges to be obsessively
concerned with the rights of the accused, the
careful adherence to procedure, and even the
right to privacy. He worried about letting viola-
tors of laws escape punishment because of
‘‘minor’’ procedural flaws. As someone slightly
to the left of him, I disagreed, and I am glad to
see the Spectator and I at last occupy some
common ground, even if it does come at the
expense of consistency on their part.

I look forward to further elaboration of the
Spectator’s new liberalism. An article justifying
why individuals need not obey laws they find
inconvenient or standing in the way of their self-
gratification would be much farther to the left
than I find comfortable, but now that the Spec-
tator is headed in that direction it is hard to
predict where they might stop.

Finally, in the interest of full disclosure, I
should add that the counselor who used his pass
key and wrote for the Spectator was one of the
five best counselors I have ever worked with, as
demonstrated by the countless hours he spent
helping freshmen out of academic difficulty,

- helping them survive (literally) some of the more

excessive violations of the alcohol policy, helping
them through several difficult personal problems
here and at home, and generally being one of the
most committed and’ insightful counselors we
have ever had.

He was also one of the finest individuals |
have ever known; and I, for one, can excuse the
only two errors of judgement he made at-W&L -
inappropriately using his pass key and unwisely

a WL a j

ig

 

IF you HAVE A PRoBLEM ~~~
WITH THIS, PlgAse REPORT - 2 ~

 

 

44 . , i
ee ne coe -
nee x ca
, , eee _ a = :
- fh —— = —_
Pe

 

 

a gee ee ict ae é ‘
: - gor: Sie : = ae ao =
ete — Pa es panes ey wot Ee ae 2
: Ss a pt merenetens oe = 2 a ee ‘g a <<a ~ es we poe
= - ae ee a Ei eS en , see
ee a i = OS = Se a : ae eh oar a “we
Sg, OD eras od =e ee =e SS ees 2 = j
<a ee sed ee et

— a or

Sbar: The new etiquette columnist? ©

is his inalienable right to sniff your prom date’s
genital area. Watching Frick run around my house
eating crickets made me re-evaluate my dog
prejudices. Frick’s no Labrador Retriever, but she
definitely ranks above your average toy poodle that
wears sweaters and goes to the hair stylist.

You know, it’s tough writing humor. Sure, it’s
easier that manual labor or banking or jumping
rope, but it’s still pretty tough. For one thing, it’s
hard to tell if what you just wrote will make
people laugh so hard that they urinate in their
pants and accidentally snort the soft drink they
were drinking. Sometimes I ask myself if writing
about crickets and cricket-eating dogs is a worthy
pursuit. To diminish these doubts, I do all of my
writing with a laugh track playing in the back-
ground.:I,used to pay attractive, models. to come.to
my house in skimpy lingerie and laugh every time

I finished a sentence, but I ran out of money. My,

laugh track is a great asset. He laughs at everyth-
ing I write, he never gets philosophical and he
makes a great drinking buddy. Unfortunately, he
does have a minor personality conflict with my
computer. Once the laugh track convinced my dog
Billabong (who, incidentally, is large and male) to
help him take the computer apart and salivate on
the microchips.

It just occurred to me that my best friend is a
laugh track. Maybe I should quit writing humor.
Maybe I should write a_nationally-syndicated
column advising people on the complex subject of

 

    

human behavior. Maybe I should become a male
version of Miss Manners. For those barbarians out
there who don’t read her column, Miss Manners is
a syndicated columnist who advises people on the

finer points of etiquette, and refers to herself in the ,

third person as if she were a professional athlete.
Here’s a typical Miss Manners reply to the much-
debated question of fork use: ‘‘Dear Gentle Reader,
Miss Manners thinks anyone who eats his main
course with a salad fork should be politely beaten
over the head with a baseball bat.’’ ;

I think I will become male version of Miss
Manners. How convenient, I just received an
important etiquette question by telegram.

Dear Mr. Manners,

When I am using a urinal in a public bath-
room, is it appropriate to strike up ‘a conversa-
tion with the person next to me?

Dear Gentle Reader, =

Mr. Manners thinks it is best to remain silent
and stare at the bathroom tiles in front of you
when you are using a public urinal. If, however,
you do decide to strike up a conversation with
the person using the urinal next to you, I sug-
gest that you say something very macho, like,
“I’ve already consumed a case of beer tonight
and this is the first time I’ve had to urinate.’’

Remember readers, send your important eti-
quette questions to my home at 800 McCorkle Dr.,
Lexington, Va, 24450. In the meantime, I will be
busy with Miss Manners making a Mr. Manners Jr.

piacower bh?

 

LETTERS

being associated with a publication that now calls
him a Nazi.

Sincerely,

Kenneth P. Ruscio
Assistant Dean of Students
for Freshmen

A reminder
from the Pit

It’s that time of year again, to bring to the
attention of the student body a reminder of the
Virginia ABC laws and how they apply to our
GHQ tavern.

The Student Activities Board will continue
their ‘‘Wednesdays in the Pit’’ program again
this year. Students are reminded that the GHQ,
unlike the Pavilion, which is not licensed by the
state, does hold an ABC license that allows us
to serve beer and wine in the restaurant. Unlike
the Pavilion, the GHQ stands to lose its ABC
license to serve beer and wine if the laws are
violated.

The following rules are in effect in the GHQ
on band nights:

1. Only those 21 years of age may purchase and
consume alcohol.

2. Non-W&L students under 18 years of age will
not be admitted.

3. All students will be required to show 2 forms
of I.D. — a valid driver’s license and a college
L.D.

4. No pitchers will be sold on beer nights, only
glasses.

5. Any student caught giving beer to a minor or
any minor caught consuming beer will have
his/her W&L I.D. confiscated, be ejected for the
evening and banned from GHQ band nights for
a month. I.D.’s may be picked up the following
morning in my office in Evans Hall. Second
violations will result in banishment from GHQ
band nights for the remainder of the year in ad-
dition to being reported to the Student Conduct
Committee.

Kemember two things, using a false 1.D. is a
possible honor violation and secondly, you do not
want to be the.one responsible for causing the
university to lose its privilege of offering the sale

 

of beer and wine on our restaurant menu.

The message is clear. Come on down, ‘‘get
down,”’ have a good time. Enjoy our expanded
alternative beverage menu. If you are 21, you
may continue to purchase your favorite cold bev-
erage.

Sincerely,
Jerry Darrell
Director of Food Service.

Extend limits
of honor code

The Sept. 13 editorial page statements con-
cerning the W&L Honor Code suggest that
responsible students recognize the university faces
a moral crisis. In view of the campus debate
over how to meet the crisis, I offer the sugges-
tion that W&L students begin thinking of lying,
cheating and stealing in terms beyond the limits
of candy bars, class assignments and the like.

Legalities fall by the way in the light of
broader ethical concepts. Date rape, for example,
becomes the theft of another person’s right to
choose. Encouraging other students to drink
excessively is, in this larger view of honor,
stealing intangibles such as clear thinking and
safe driving skills from peer victims.

Students who trash a house in a neighborhood
cheat long-time residents out of the tranquility of
their environment. And students who travel at
high speed along a road rob security from every
other driver and pedestrian in their path. The
merry-maker who blows an auto horn or parties
loudly at 2 a.m. steals rest from persons dis-
turbed by the noise.

A multitude of other examples suggest them-
selves when an individual reflects on ethics from
this larger view. True community is possible
when the student body moves beyond the candy
bar limits of honor. Take a look in the mirror,
Instead of lying to yourself about whose life or
property it is, think of whom you may be robb-
ing or cheating with your actions. Honor is no
small matter.

Sincerely,
Dolores Bausum
area resident

 

 
OPINION

Counselor rebukes Spectator

 

MY VIEW :
By Mary Hampson

 

To the Spectator Staff:

This letter is not to be read in part; if you start
it, please finish it. .

While sending a copy of this letter to the Spec-
tator, | am also submitting it to the Phi so that it
will be printed soon and I can get this over with.

Reading the recent article entitled ‘‘Dorm
Nazis,’’ I was surprised and saddened by several
aspects of not only the article itself, but of the
attitude of the whole publication. The first frus-
trating aspect of the article was its irrelevance.
Let’s get this straight: last year’s incident was an
admitted error in judgement; it took place in the
past, under a completely different Executive Staff,
and not one of us this year was involved at all. A
long time before this article came out, I, as the
Head Dorm Counselor, made it abundantly clear
that such an incident would not reoccur. So relax.
But what was the point of bringing it up again?
What axe are you trying to grind?

These questions lead to a second frustrating
aspect of the article: its tone. Your insensitivity
as a publication to the dorm counseling staff is
astounding. By the biting sarcasm of the article,
I gathered that the author has an abiding distaste
for the concept of dorm counselors in general
which leaves me a bit puzzled about the Spec-
tator's traditional party-line. You moan endlessly
about erosion of student government and yet here
is a case of an effective, student-run system (the
dorms) in which, by articles such as these, you end
up pitting one group of students (freshmen) against
another group (dorm counselors) for no apparent
reason. While you relish the game of stirring
people up by provocative articles, this is distinctly
unhelpful when we are trying to establish the ever
delicate relationships with the freshmen right now.
Although I know how dearly you love to feed the
flames of controversy on this campus (all justified
in your own heads by what you perceive to be val-
iant journalistic exposition), to fling this up in our
faces after it was a dead issue was a cheap shot.

However, the Spectator’s hostility toward the
dorm counselors throughout this issue continues to
confuse me. Do you, the editing staff a) truly
believe that the dorm counselling system is as
sneaky, power-oriented and clannish as it sounds?
and b) actually think that the freshmen dorms need
no imposed order, no organized guidance for their
first year on campus? Surely not. If so, you may

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

have become numb to some of the disturbing

realities of life at W&L, or perhaps you are still

naive. You may say, “I had a great time fresh-
man year! I made it through just fine and my
dorm counselor had nothing to do with it." Well
we're all very happy for ycu, of course. But
unfortunately not everyone is like you. Not
everyone adjusts easily in the dorms and gets a bid
at the house they want. Not everyone
unscrupulously embraces the social scene here at
W&L which, so sickeningly enslaved to peer-
pleasing and alcohol worship as a social lubricant
and equalizer, can turn out to be a rather hollow,
vicious thing when all the glamour wears off, can
it not? (By the way, I was amazed by the flip
attitude toward alcohol over-use in this issue of the
Spectator. It is without a doubt one of the most
damaging and ignoble aspects of this campus, and
should be viewed by the Spectator as antithetical
to the very spirit of Washington and Lee since it
generally leads to self-centered and singularly
ungentlemanly/unladylike behavior.

 

All | am asking is that you
re-think your Criticisms of
the dorm counselors. And
this time, really do the
research.

All I am asking is that you re-think your
criticisms of the dorm counselors. And this time
really do the research. Bring a sleeping bag and
come into the dorms with us for a few days; you
can see what it’s like for yourselves if you've
forgotten. There is far more for dorm counselors
to do than act as policemen.

Perhaps you, the Spectator critics, think that all
of the touchy-feely counselling part is fine but
when it comes to enforcing the rules you would
prefer us to be impotent? We should listen to
their problems all they want but then wink and
smile and turn a blind eye when rules are broken?
You would have all the comforts of the system
without the teeth. Of course we cannot run things
that way. We live in the dorms obviously because
we like the freshmen, but there are also rules to
enforce (no alcohol, drugs, vandalism, etc.), to
preserve a peaceful, livable atmosphere in the
dorms. Surely you can understand this.

"Well, enforce the rules then,” you say. "Just
don’t be unconstitutional about it. Don’t break the
law of the land." Quite right; of all people I
couldn’t agree with you more. Thank you for your

 

concern for rule-breaking. However, your
impassioned cries for law-abiding make me laugh
when I think of how comfortable you feel with all
of the violations of Virginia State Law and even
the Interfraternity Council that goes on in fraternity
houses all the time. Could it be that the Hill and
dorms are the only entities you hold accountable to
rules? If your purpose in attacking the dorm
counselors is because of law-breaking, look

around you. Why are you not uniform in your
rage? Be consistent in your attacks; it is the least
you can do.

On a different issue, as far as the Spectator
itself goes, I sincerely regret the turn it has taken
as a publication. I hold what many would call a
pretty “conservative” line on many issues, but I
find myself strangely alienated intellectually from
the opinions in the Spectator. 1 cannot honestly
say that it is gracious, or enlightening, or even that
intellectual. It consistently seeks to tear down
more than build up. To spend the sponsors’ funds
solely to provoke seems wasteful.

I have also been shocked by the brazenness of
its insensitivity to minorities, and its carping on
and on about various campus committees without
offering any thoughtful, alternative solutions. The
readers hear ad nauseam about gentlemanliness; I
see it nowhere in the Spectator. You are dis-
respectful of faculty, administration and deans; your
criticisms are without finesse. You don’t have to
like all of their views--I know I certainly don’t--
but you ought to show them proper respect. Man-
ners are not incompatible with constructive
criticism.

Ray, Paul, Cameron, I know that you are all
intelligent and passionate about what you are
doing, but the Spectator is turning so many people
off to the few worthy portions of your publication
that it might be wise to reconsider your approach.
In this age of graceless, trashy writing, why not
publish a constructive, thoughtful journal instead of
slinging mud? It is usually better not to be a
stumbling block on the way to a cause if you want
to win advocates to it.

One final correction: you don’t seem to
understand a term you use. The word “Nazi” is
short for National Socialist, the German name for
an extremist political party that rose in post-World
War I Germany under the demonic misguidance of
Adolf Hitler. Nazis dabbled in the occult, twisted
Christian symbols, and exterminated millions of
Gypsies and Jews. As far as I know, this descrip-
tion does not characterize any of the dorm coun-
selors on my staff. Words have specific meanings;
you really ought to stop flinging this one around.

Molly Yard’s Frankenstein monster

 

argues that judges like the retiring

reached political and social Nirvana

But when Molly Yard and

MY VIEW

«By J. Cameron
Humphries

 

Lord only knows just what Molly
Yard and her entourage intended to
accomplish in their excursion to
Capital Hill and the Senate
confirmation hearings of Judge David
Souter. Perhaps they nostalgically
remembered the lynching of Judge
Bork and hoped that it might be once
more. Well, as Bart Simpson so
often says, "Au contraire mon frére."
Instead of discrediting the character
of Judge Souter, their words and
actions served only to enlighten the
confirmation committee and _ the
nation as to the true character of
themselves and the radical feminist
movement.

In an ironic sense of justice, Ms.
Yard finds her movement at the
mercy of a judicial monster that she
herself helped to create. The
appointment of a new Supreme Court
justice should mean as much to NOW
as most congressional elections
currently mean to the majority of the
populous -- very little. While most
concede that the liberals did not
invent judicial activism, no one

By Rick Peltz

John Quinn, ’91, Shreveport, LA -
- ‘Tear night is an evening full of
sound and fury, signifying nothing.’’

 

Justice Brennan resurrected, refined,
and perfected its art. Within the
framework of the constitution, the
Supreme Court should serve only to
interpret the constitution, not reshape,
redefine, and -- more often than not
-- blatantly rewrite it.

If these are functions of the
government at all, then they are
functions of the Congress and not
activist judges and their legal clerks.
And as the mandates of the Warren
court so clearly attest, this is most
definitely for a reason.

For nearly thirty years, it seemed
that every liberal special interest
group had their time at bat in the
Supreme Court. The liberals and the
nation ignored the Congress, allowing
its members to forget their constitutes
in favor of lucrative PACs and the
power-brokering game of throwing
other people’s money at every social
ill which somehow - struck _ the
conscience of a heartless political
body.
To Molly Yard, it did not make
sense to convince a divided and weak
Congress to enact legislature when all
she had to do was sit on papa
Brennan’s lap and ask for another
judicial decision.

The liberals thought they had

when Ronald Reagan slipped through
their choke hold on the nation.
Though much of the constitution’s
safeguards lay in ruin due to their
efforts, the liberals have not -- as yet
-- effectively dismantled its system of
checks and balances. As the first
generation of liberal judicial activists
retired, many of whom appointed by
Republican presidents in good faith,
Ronald Reagan had the opportunity to
restore much of the judicial system,
unquestioned. And he did so until
the nomination of Judge Bork and the
bloodletting which followed. For the
liberals, Bork’s confirmation did not
pose the question of judicial activism
versus constructionism, they were
concerned only with how activist the
judge was and for what political
purpose. Ms. Yard did not mind that
the Justices legislated from the bench
-- indeed, she hoped the justices
would -- but she saw _ the
confirmation hearings as an national
election campaign of sorts. The
liberals wrote letters to congressional
leaders, appealed to the nation
through the media, and acted as
though the Supreme Court were a
political body. Which, of course,
largely as a result of their own
actions it was and still is.

company returned to Capital Hill, the
nominee they faced was no Judge
Bork. In the weeks which preceded
the confirmation hearings, ~ the
feminists, and ironically practically
only the feminists, whined and
complained merely because the
nominee would not enable them to
politicize the nomination. They could
not attack his credentials. They
could not question his character.
They could only question his silence,
and those complaints fell largely on
deaf ears. What they did not want
was a judge with an open mind, for
a judge who intended to impartially
listen to both sides of a case before
making a decision lacked the one
qualification they sought. They
wanted a judge with an agenda.

It is precisely such a judge, one
who has left behind him a substantial
paper trail of stances on controversial
issues which, due to their own
actions, will soon no longer exist.
And the new type of justice resulting
from their own labors will be so
apolitical that the feminists will have
little to question other than the
appropriateness a senator referring to
Ms. Yard as a "lovely lady,” while
the rest of the nation ponders the
same,

 

TALKBACK

 

 

   

 

Concert at VMI

The United States Marine Band
from Washington will present a
concert at Virginia Military Insti-
tutc’s Cameron Hall at 8 pm.,
Tuesday, Oct. 2. Admission is
free, but patrons will be required
to have tickets in advance. Tickets
are available at the Cameron Hall
box office, by mail or at Lexing-
ton radio station WREL. Up to
six tickets per request will be
mailed to those sending a
stamped, self-addressed envelope
to: Marine Band, VMI Public
Relations, Lexington, VA
24450.

An Invitation

The International Club is holding
weekly meetings every Tuesday at
7 p.m. at the International House,
8 Lee Avenue. New members
are always welcome. For more
information, contact Rick Peltz at
464-5518.

Trail Rides

Stoney Run Trails in Buena Vista
has set up their fall schedule for
horse trail rides. They will offer
half day and all-day rides through
mid-November. For more infor-
mation or reservations, contact
Deborah Sensabaugh at (703) 261-
1910 or 464-3555.

Fulbright Grants

Applications are now available for
the Fulbright Foreign Scholarship.
The Fulbright grant is for
graduate study abroad. For more
information and to pick up an
application, see Professor Bruce
Herrick in Room 212 of the
Commerce School by Oct. 12.

Lecture Series
The Telford Lecture series will
debut its new season with Marina
Chetverikova, who will speak at
7:30 p.m. on Monday, Oct. 1 in
Northen Auditorium. Chetverikova
is a researcher on the U.S. and
Canada for a “think tank" in

Moscow. She will speak on the
future of socialism.

Lost and Found

A square-faced Hamilton watch
with the initials "JCF" on back
has been lost. If found, leave in
Carol Caulkin’s office in the
University Center. Also, a black
leather triangular-shaped key chain
with keys to a Honda has been
found, as has a gold charm
bracelet with five charms. Both
can be picked up in Caulkin’s
office.

 

GENERAL NOTES

Poetry Contest

Big Plans

The Outing Club is sponsoring
numerous activities, including a
hike up Elliot’s Knob (Sept. 29),
a hawk migration watch (Oct. 2),
biking trips (Sept. 29 and Oct. 6) |
and environmental action projects. ©
For more information, check the

bulletin board on the Colonnade
or contact Kirk Follo at 463-8828. :

Free Flick

The W & L Film Society will
show Jean de Florette (France,
1987), the movie adaption of
Marcel Pagnol’s novel of the
good and evil among Provencal
peasants in the 1920's, on Sept.
28 and 29. The movie will start
at 8:05 both nights and will be
shown in Lewis Hall, Classroom
ie

Foreign Study

The director of the Advanced
Studies program in England will
be on campus to meet with inter- ©
ested students on Thursday, Oct.
4 at 3 p.m. in Baker 106.

Save Money

The United Way of Lexington is
offering “Taste of the Town"
coupon booklets with discounts at
17 area restaurants. The booklet
has a value of $30, but is sold
for $10. The proceeds go to the
United Way and the booklet can
be bought in the GHQ, the Co-
op and the Bookstore,

The American Poetry Association
announces its poetry coutest for
all poetry writers. The contest is
open to everyone, and entry is
free. Original poems under 20
lines should be sent by Sept. 30
to the American Poetry .\ssocia-
tion, Dept. CO-84, 250-A Potrero
St., P.O. Box 1803, Santa Cruz,
CA 95061 by Sept. 30.

General Notes

Need to get the word out? Put it
in the Phi. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

Photos by Chris Leiphart

 

What was your impression of

this year’s tear night?

 

 

 

Tim Wolff, ’93, Ossining, NY, —
‘I fell off a table and got four stitch-

es in my_ back. Great

though.”’

night,

Thomas Gottsegen, ’°91, New Orle-
ans, LA; and Graham, Tunica, MS
- ‘‘Thank god that Graham and |
were there to restore order.’’

Susan Moseley, ’93, Atlanta, GA -
- ‘It was fun, a little wild, but fun.
It was different without all the hous-

”

es.

 

 

Nikki Eden, ’94, York, PA — ‘‘I Foster Bowman, °91, Little Rock,
AR = “‘I don’t remember a whole
lot, but it was good, clean fun,’’

thought it was incredible, the most
wild party I’ve ever seen, almost
scary, but a lot of fun.”’

 

 

 
 

 

NEWS

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

After having served 82 days on a
five year sentence for the hit-and-ru
and involuntary manslaughter of Mary
Ashley Scarborough, former Washing-
ton and Lee student Blake Comer
was released from Rockbridge Re-
gional Jail last Thursday.

According to Chief Correctional
Officer Lt. John M. Higgins, Comer
tured himself in on June 23 to begin
serving time before his trial.

On the day of his trial, Aug. 29,
Comer plead guilty and was sen-
tenced to two five year terms to be
served concurrently. The judge sus-
pended four and a half of those
years, so Comer had to serve only
six months and five years of proba-
tion after his release.

Higgins explained, ‘‘Once incar-

erated, for every day a_ subject
‘pulls,’ he gets one day ‘good time.’
‘In addition to that Blake also did
‘trustee work to eam more good
time.’
: Inmates who don’t cause problems
‘or have been in jail for long periods
‘of time are able to be jail trustees,
‘helping the guards and supervising
‘other prisoners, he said.

W&L history Professor J. David
‘Parker, Comer’s advisor while he was
‘a student here, took Comer to the
airport after his release.

Parker said Comer told him that
some of the other inmates would say
obnoxious things to him. People who
did not know him were angry at what
they considered a light sentence.

“I don’t think he has any notion
that he has paid his debt. He will
never pay his debt. It’s an unpayable
debt,’’ said Parker.

Parker admitted that it was ‘‘very
likely’’ that Comer was given special
treatment in such light sentencing.

: “If he had been a poorer member
of society or an ethnic minority, it
would have been very different,’ he
said.

' However, Parker said he felt the
jail sentence itself was of no real

importance. ‘‘The jail time is largely
an irrelevant issue. There could never
be enough,”’ he said.

Many people in the community
question whether or not justice was
served by Comer’s term in prison.

In an interview with The Rock-
bridge Weekly, Lexington resident
Frank Johnson said, ‘‘I don’t think
it’s fair. If the driver had been some-
one local, the penalty would have
been much more severe. There’s no
justice at all. A person was killed.’’

A W&L student, who asked not
to be named, expressed much the
same sentiment.

“It just goes to show that the

If you W&L students

are so smart, why

do you do such stu-

pid things to get

yourself in trouble?
— Lt. John Higgins

criminal justice system isn’t as scary
as we think it is if you can kill
someone and get out of jail in three
months.”’

Jail officials said some of the
other inmates felt that Comer’s case
was not fair, but fellow inmate and
trustee Mike Wade disagreed.

“I feel like he paid his debt.
People that think he didn’t just don’t
understand the system. That wasn’t
his fault. It was the judge’s,’’ he
said.

‘*Besides,’’ Wade added, ‘‘that’s
a heck of a load for a young man to
carry on his shoulders for life.’’

Wade said that Comer was always
worried about what he'd done, but
tried to hide it.

“You could tell how much he
worried about it. He lost over twenty
pounds while he was in here,’’ he
said,

Delmas Breeden, one of Comer’s
cellmates, asked, ‘‘What’s the use of
punishing him in here for something
he’ll carry with him the rest of his
life?”’

Breeden said when Comer was

 

 

 

Comer gets out of jail,
to attend U. of Georgia

released ‘‘everybody shook hands
with him, glad to see him get out.”

During the time Comer was in
jail, Sheriff Fred Spence said that
Comer was a ‘‘model prisoner.’’ Jail
officials were impressed by his ap-
parent sincerity and remorse.

Higgins said Comer was _hard-
working and got along well with
other inmates. Wade called Comer a
“*good ole’ boy,’’ and said he and
Comer would stay up and have late-
night talks together.

While in prison, Comer’s daily
routine consisted of a thirteen-hour
shift (5:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.) working
as a kitchen trustee, scrubbing pots,
floors, and walls and helping prepare
and serve meals. He had a half-hour
recreation break in the afternoons.

“Blake was very concerned with
his education. He had his scopes sct
on finishing,’’ said Higgins, who
approved Comer’s request to continue
correspondence classes while he was
in jail.

“He didn’t have the usual crowds
of visitors we get when we arrest
W&L students,’’ said Higgins, ‘‘It
was different for Blake.”’

Higgins said Comer did have a
few regular visitors — a minister from
Lynchburg, Parker and very few
schoolmates.

. Higgins seemed sympathetic to
Comer, saying, ‘‘He didn’t know why
he reacted the way he did. He wanted
so badly to do something to help, but
there’s no way to bring the dead
back.”’

Higgins asked, ‘‘If you W&L stu-
dents are so smart, why do you do
such stupid things to get yourself in
trouble? I don’t understand why you
do the things you do.”’

Still, Higgins would like everyone
to ‘‘put yourself in the position of
Blake Comer. Put yourself in the
position of his parents. Remember
that sometimes when we do wrong,
we really don’t know we're doing
| ga

Comer is now serving five years
of probation in South Carolina and is
planning to attend the University of
Georgia next semester.

 

ove res ree eee ERSTE

 

 

 

weave eee ewe

Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

©Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2AM

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

 

 

Houses go head-to-head

 

 

 

fields yesterday. The warm tem
a match, FiJl beat SPE 1

8 Gamma Delta and Sigma Phi Epsilon face off in intramural football on the Law School

peratures made it a perfect day for the IM games. In this
6-0. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Hatcher: MSA request
for money ‘out of line’

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

The Minority Student Association
appeared before the Executive Com-
mittee last Thursday night for a sec-
ond budget request hearing.

‘The MSA was asked back, first
of all, because they received a grant
last year from Dean McCloud and
Dean John unbeknownst to us,’’ said
EC President Tom Hatcher.

MSA President James Rambeau
reported to the EC in MSA’s first
budget hearing Tuesday night that a
breakdown in communication between

Sy;

=

Autumn Flowers

wrapped
Half Price

cash
and

carry

Saturdays
3-5:30 PM

Teleflora’

he

ANANAANAAAANS

forint iu The Homestead

Ten East Nelson
463-9841

Th hh te he

oe

ah es

oe
Py adi ta apny . ° °
par ee tee ~ Inexpensive ~_Easy Parking
7 ns

ck Print, Ink.

 

‘i
&

MSA and Contact left MSA unable
to pay the full $2,500 cost of a Black
History Month speaker.

Rambeau told the EC that night
that he sought funding from the of-
fices of Associate Dean of Students
Anece McCloud and Dean of Stu-
dents Lewis John, who provided
about $1,800.

Hatcher said that MSA was also
summoned back to provide the EC
with ‘‘a budget request that I deem
reasonable.’’ He said that MSA’s
request of $8,400 was ‘‘out of line’
with requests in previous years.

Last year, the MSA _ received
$2,000 of their $6,400 request. In
1988, the EC granted MSA $1,600 of

a $2,500 request.

MSA’s original 1990-91 request
included $4,000 for two speakers for
Martin Luther King Day and Black
History Month. Those figures were
eliminated in MSA’s final request of
$2,537.50.

“‘The EC requested that the MSA
return for another budget hearing to
streamline our request’’ and detail
activities, said Rambeau. He added
only that ‘‘there’s something else
underlying going on, but we'll have
to wait for Thursday’s deliberations
to see that.’

**We’re not down on MSA,”’ said
Hatcher, ‘‘we just have all these
questions.”’

 

Quality Qui

$5

 

for all student printing needs

214 South Main Street, Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9232

LEXINGTON’S ORIGINAL 8¢ COPY

OFF ANY SERVICE
WITH ais AD

 

 

_—— R HH HH» nn

 

 

hice wt ipiiore pega ae

464-BOWL (2695) —

 

 

 

Addressers Wanted
Immediately!

No experience necessary. Excellent pay!
Work at Home. Call Toll-Free:
1-800-395-3283

 

Your Favorite ‘‘Lex Mex’’
Place To Dine

Coming Attractions of Friday 9/21/90

*Expanded Luncheon Menu
*Expanded Hours: Mon.-Sat. 11:30 - 1:00 a.m.
Sun. 11:30 a.m.-10:00 p.m.

Watch For

‘*The Back Room’’

Coming Soon

116 N. Main St.

Phone 464-TACO

 

 

 

"od gigas

'

f
NEWS

 

* By Pamela Kelly
, Staff Reporter

 

Delta Gamma Women’s Fraternity
ytook its first steps toward establish-
ment at Washington and Lee Saturday
“when 11 upperclassmen pledged to
, become its first members.
According to local DG alumna
+ Pree Ray, the members of the DG
expansion team who conducted the
"Rush last week were hoping for a
, Pledge class of at least 20.
‘We had hoped to get a few
* more pledges than 11, but we feel the
girls we got are so strong and dedi-
* cated we decided to go with that,”’
« She said.
Ray said of approximately 20
* women who went through Rush, all
_ 11 pledges were members of a DG
Interest Group which began meeting
sin January in hopes of convincing
DG to begin a chapter here.

Ray said when DG representatives
met and interviewed the 11 women
from the interest group, they were
impressed with the group's collective
desire for the sorority to be at W&L.

‘When it just came down to the
crux of the matter there were only 11
and they just said o.k., we’re going
to go with these 11,’’ she said. Ray
cited grades and an interest in Winter
Rush as reasons why others did not
get bids.

DG pledge and former interest
group member Kim Marcott says she
thinks the DG expansion team real-
ized that most women who are inter-
ested in going Greek either joined
one of the existing three on campus
or held out for DG. She thinks the
numbers will pick up in time.

The sorority hopes to increase its
membership at W&L by encouraging
some of the approximately 170 unaf-
filiated women to go Greek and may
extend more bids to upperclassmen

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

11 women pledge DG

this fall. DG will also participate in
the Winter Rush for freshmen in
January.

Marcott said that the DG pledges
will probably not initiate before Win-
ter Rush, and instead will initiate
with the freshmen pledges they pick
up in January. Ray said that DG will
probably have collegiate members
from a nearby university on hand to
aid the DG pledges in their first
Rush.

Ray hopes that DG’s small num-
ber in comparison to the approxi-
mately 75 members in each of the
other sororities will attract more
women. She feels the sororities are
too large now and which makes it
hard for women to really get to know
one another.

“It shouldn’t be that way. Hope-
fully with four sororities now, it will
even out in size and won't be so big
so girls will have more opportunities

 

Kim Marcott

..new DG pledge

to get to know their own sisters,’’
she said.

The DG pledge class met for the
first time Monday night. For the rest
of the semester the pledges will dir-
ect their energies toward the up-and-
coming Winter Rush and, according

to Marcott, let everyone know DG is
here.

Dorm’s fire alarms

are too sensitive

 

By Mike Badger
Staff Reporter

 

The smoke alarm system in
Graham-Lees dormitory, widely
known for its over-sensitivity, has
Washington and Lee students and
administrators worried.

According to Head Dorm Coun-
selor Mary Hampson, who lives on
the third floor of Graham-Lees, the
system is so sensitive that it is
‘talmost dangerous.’’

Hampson said that the alarms go
off so frequently when there is no
fire very few people take the alarms
seriously anymore.

‘When there really is a fire,’’ she
said, ‘‘people aren’t going to know
it,"

“| chink there’s a problem,”’ said

Associate Dean of Students Ken
Ruscio. ‘‘As I see it, the state fire
code is so strict that it requires al-

arms that are too sensitive.”’

According to Hampson, freshmen
smoking or making popcorn in their
dorm rooms often set off the alarms.

Superintendent of W&L's Building
and Grounds Department James L.
Arthur said that even hairspray or the
cleaning fluid used in the dorm halls
and bathrooms will cause the alarms
to go off.

Ruscio said the over-sensitivity of
the smoke alarm system in Graham-
Lees is ‘‘definitely an issue,’’ but
that the strictness of the state fire
codes has made it difficult to come
up with a solution to the problem.

According to Ruscio, the alarm
system in Graham-Lees and Gaines
Hall are more sensitive that the sys-
tems in other dorms. Gaines Hall was
completed only four years ago and
Graham-Lees was renovated in the
early 1980's, putting them both under
the restrictions of the most recently
amended fire codes.

.

ihe
’ '
; i

 

FD date remains same

Organization and attention to detail-will be key factors
in a successful and financially responsible 1991 Fancy
Dress Ball, said recently appointed Fancy Dress Chairman
John Flippen.

Flippen, a junior, said ‘‘excesses of the past’’ will not
be repeated this year.

‘*You must keep in mind that it is a celebration and
not to get caught up in the politics. We will have to do
lots fo preplanning. This FD will be under budget this
year,’” he said.

The Student Activities Board decided last night to not
change the date of FD from March 8 to March 1, 1991.
The SAB had been considering changing the date because
the Law School leaves for its spring break on the 8th.
Last year’s FD also fell during the Law School’s spring
break.

SAB Chairman Katie Duwel said the SAB felt ‘‘it is
too late in the year to change the date.’’ She said they
had to take into consideration the alumni who have made
arrangements to fly in as well as the 80-plus athletes
who will be away at scheduled games.

Law School SAB Director of Publicity Martika Parson
said, ‘‘The Law students are disappointed that FD falls
in spring break. It is always a key event. We have to

deal with it this year and make sure it doesn’t happen in .

¥ eh wre* o¢ wr * a a

RE On  coccicacnansstecasncenmuincnsqaientiannes
*

‘

Cees

Gossman faces charges

William Gossman, a Former W&L student charged
with passing a bad check, will stand trial at the Rock-
bridge County Circuit Courthouse Oct. 24.

If convicted, Gossman could face up to five years in
jail and up to $1000 in fines,

 

BRIEFS

A Grand Jury indicted Gossman, 24, of Forest Hills,
MD, Sept. 4. He allegedly wrote a bad check for
$17,410.70 to the Lexington Motor Sales on April 3, the
same day he withdrew from school.

Despite negotiations between the dealership and his
family, Gossman never made good on his check.

Sergeant Torben, officer in charge of the arrest,
apprehended Gossman April 18 in Charlotte, NC. He
attended a preliminary hearing May 1 at the courthouse.

Gossman was a junior at W&L.

Cancer walk aids victims

Lexington residents will have the opportunity to
benefit cancer research and aid local cancer victims by
participating in ‘‘Making Strides for Cancer.”’

Lexington will be one of many towns in Virginia
hosting a walk for cancer Oct. 7. The Catholic Campus
Ministry is sponsoring the event, which will begin at
Harris Teeter at 1:30 p.m. Participants may collect
pledges to raise additional money.

Electra Martin, student coordinator of the event, said
she wants to ‘“‘bring to awareness that diagnosis [of
cancer} is not a death sentence.’’

Several members of the Lexington community have
successfully undergone cancer treatment. Coach Emmett
"Buck" Leslie, a leukemia victim, returned to teaching

~and coaching golf this term and has completed treatment.

year. Cunningham relearned to speak after the removal
of his larynx.

‘People always think that if you have cancer, it’s all
over. He [Cunningham] shows that’s not true,’’ said
Martin.

Next month Cunningham will run a marathon in
Athens, Greece, the origin of the marathon. ‘‘He’s always
wanted to do that and now he’s going to do it,”’ said his
wife June. ‘‘There’s not anything that he can’t do that he
ever did [before his diagnosis].’’

After the finish of the event at Harris Teeter, there
will be a picnic, where the participants who raise the
most money will be awarded prizes donated by local
businesses.

The first walk for cancer in Lexington occurred last
spring. Seventy-five people participated and the CCM
hopes for a larger turnout this year. Registration forms
will be available in the Co-op and at VMI this week.

New club tries to cash in

The Investment Club, Washington and Lee’s newest
club, is hoping to make some big bucks.

Approximately fifty club members have risked twenty
five dollars, plus one dollar for club expenses, for the
chance to strike it rich. President David Bohigian said he
started the club to give students an opportunity ‘‘to learn

sabout personal finance, investment banking and possible

Dean of the Commerce School Larry’C, Peppers’ secré- -job opportunities.’’ ‘

tary, Anne Ziegler, had a malignant melanoma removed
15 years ago and said that when a person is diagnosed
as having cancer ‘‘it’s very hard to realize that that’s
happened to you and you have to say you’ve got to beat
this thing and you have to fight.’’

‘Il applaud what they’re doing because it’s certainly
needed for research. Cures can be found,”’ she said.

Retired Lexington Post Office worker George Cun-
ningham, 70, was treated for cancer 12 years ago. He
will run in ‘‘Making Strides for Cancer’’ as he did last

The club has an executive éommittee to meet with the
club’s broker, Doug Roper, who is with A.G, Edwards
and Sons Inc. in Lexington. ‘‘The executive committee
acts as a liaison between the club and the broker,”’
Bohigian said. After meeting with Mr. Roper, the invest-
ment club’s executive committee reports back to the club
with investment recommendations,

Once ideas are presented not only by the executive
committee, but also by club members, the club votes on
one investment. At the end of the year, members will

receive anywhere from zero dollars to perhaps ten- |
thousand dollars, depending on the market.
The club will have occasional lectures during the year
by various financial experts, such as Roper, Professor of
Administration Joseph Goldsten and possibly parents who
are involved in the financial world during Parents’ '
Weekend.
Meetings for the investment club will occur at least ’
once a month, but they are not mandatory. The only
mandatory obligation of the club is the twenty-six dollar
fee. Officers of the club include President David Bohi- '
gian, Vice-President Scott Swigert, and Secretary Gabrey
Croft. Additional officers will be elected at the next
meeting, which has not been announced yet. For addi-
tional information, call 463-1561. q

Portrait gets new case

The scaffolding that decorated the University Library

‘at the beginning of the term was for the construction of

a case for the 9 foot by 6 foot portrait of George |
Washington that has been in the library since its opening
in 1979. |

According to Librarian Barbara Brown, ‘“The purpose
of the case is to allow the portrait to be hung so that it
can be properly lighted.”’

Former Board of Trustee member Jack W. Warner,
after whom the Warmer Athletic Center was named, gave
both the portrait to. W&L when the library first opened
as well as the funding for the construction of the case.
The case was designed by the architects who designed
the library.

— These briefs have been compiled by members

of The Ring-tum Phi staff

 

 

 

 

When you
mae

 

in Northen Auditorium.

W&L Bookstore
will sell books by Daniel Hoffman following his reading

October 3, 1990

 

 

 

ave

 

 

 

Don't get wrecked. If you're not sober-

or youre not sure—

let someone else do the driving.

A message provided by this newspaper
and Beer Drinkers of America

   

OF AMERICA
PARTY *SMART

National Headquarters
150 Paularino Ave., Suite 190
Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

Beer Drinkers of America is a non-profit consumer membership
organization open only to persons over the age of 21°

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

haan

 

 

 

 

—

 

ight >

Cia

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

R

 

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

Please

 

LHe

OWIHIINE FRONT)

167 S. Main St.

__ See
a

Student Charge Accounts

Are Available

Come by today and open up your student charge accounts. We will
be glad to mail bills home. Stop by and see our new look, we think
you'll be surprised! We also have a new take-out deli for sandwiches
and salads! Stop by & see us today!

Serving The W&L Community

For Over 35 Years

Recycle

This

Newspaper

Outing Club

A message from the Washington and Lee

 
“NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi,

 

SAB

from page 1

justified because of last year’s stu-
dent body surplus.

‘‘The EC has sufficient cash over-
flow, and we are entitled to a share
of that,’’ he said.

EC Vice President Raymond Wel-
der reported that though the student
body as a whole generated a $16,216
surplus last year, the SBA recorded
a deficit of $213.53.

‘Our view is that the SAB isn’t
prepared to provide the Law School
with the kind of entertainment they
feel is necessary for a good social
life,’’ said EC President Tom Hat-
cher on behalf of himself and Weld-
er.

Hatcher said that this year’s EC
will not hold the SAB accountable

for law school participation in SAB-
-sponsored events.

SBA President Grant Burns said
he will not comment on the SBA
budget request until after EC alloca-
tions are decided.

The SAB requested $53,090, the
bulk of which is $43,205 for enter-
tainment. The remainder is broken
into $4,490 for facilities, $3,545 for
operations, and $1,850 for general
office expenditures.

Welder announced Monday night
that the business office has billed
$120,240 in student activities fees
which will be available for EC allo-
cation tonight.

The business office reported that
2,004 students matriculated, accord-

OVO OOP LIV IVI IOI OLIV POPOL OLD POP OP

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes

Charge Accounts

   
 
     
     
   
         
     
  

  
 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

  

 
  

 
  
 
 

LEE di

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

A warm welcome to all Washington and Lee Students
from R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church. We would
like to greet you all formally with a picnic on Sunday,
October 7, after the 10:30 a.m. Eucharist Service. Come
meet fellow students and faculty.

A Cantebury Bible Study and Fellowship is held every
Sunday evening with dinner provided. 6 p.m. at the Rec-
tory, 107 Lee Avenue, monthly brunches and dinners
will be provided by faculty at various times of the year.
Come join us and become part of our Parish Family.

The Rev. R. David Cox The Rev. Dr. Barbara Taylor

Mr. Clean Car

207 N. Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450
463-3087

Complete Car Care
Detailed Inside and Out
$40.00-

M-F open at noon
Saturday open at 8:00 a.m.

George’s Hairstylist

e Free Delivery

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

$45.00

 

136 Varner Lane
463-3975
N
() Yes Location
A W&L
S Main St.

 

Parking PLL |
Parking

 

George’s

 

 

Randolph St.

Varner Ln.

 

 

v
E

() Yes People

 

CJ Yes Products

Redken @ Nexxus ® Paul Mitchel ¢
Sebastian (Itd.) © Matrix

Experienced Professional Stylists

(] Yes Walk-In or Phone

---SPECIAL OFFER--~-“4
| Two Dollars Off On Haircuts |
j Four Dollars Off On Perms |
| Good through Sept. 30/90 w/coupons |

. ce ES SRR HN ANDY GE uN GETS SEND REE: care SEER SORE ENE See tet tants J

 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
 

      
 
  
    
 
   
  

 

 

ing to Welder. Each student is billed
$120 in student activities fee, $60
now and $60 in winter term, $25 of
which will pay for the pavilion.

Welder said the business office
told him to count on 1,950 students
when conducting budget allocations,
as many students may not remain
the full year. 1,950 students would
generate $185,250 in funds for EC
allocation over the year.

The EC has thus far received
budget requests totalling
$193,058.15. Last year, the EC al-
lotted an additional $27,300 for stu-
dent body and executive committee
reserves and honor matters.

Petitions for candidates for fresh-
man EC representative, class president
and vice president are due Monday
for an Oct. 8 election.

I'd never have believed that one little computer could make

 

September 27, 1990

 

 

SSS eeaae

D.U.I. accidents, arrests
significantly reduced

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

Despite recent local incidents that
would seem to indicate otherwise,
both state and local police assert that
arrests for and accidents involving
drunk driving have been significantly
reduced in the last few years.

According to the Rockbridge
County Centralized Accident Process-
ing Report, out of the 923 crashes
that occurred in Rockbridge County
last year, 857 did not involve alcohol.

This translates into 97 percent of
all accidents in and around Lexington
being caused by drivers who had not
been drinking.

According to Sgt. J.T. O’Neil of
the Virginia State Police, out of the

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Macintosh SE

32 accidents that were alcohol related,
12 resulted strictly in property dam-
age, 18 involved injuries and only
two resulted in deaths.

O'Neil said that the first two
quarters of 1990 have continued to
show significant reductions in D.U.I.
accidents and arrests, and that he is
“tickled to death to see it drop.’

Lexington Police Officer Fred
Smith, who for the last three years
has been the department’s top arrest-
ing officer of drunk drivers, agreed
with O’Neil, saying that D.U.I's
‘have drastically dropped off in the
last two years.”’

Smith said the biggest nights for
D.U.I. arrests of students are still
Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, but
that those getting pulled over are
“mostly female students from sur-

such an incredible difference in my academic and working life.

 

Miriam Stoll
B.A. History, Dartmouth College
M.B.A. Stanford Graduate School of Business

business school.

they‘d all be taken.

ry

“T became a Macintosh convert in

“At our computer lab I'd always find
lines of people waiting to use the Macintosh
computers, while other computers just sat
there. So I had a choice: wait for a Macintosh,
or come back at 6 AM.to grab one before

“After business school, I took a job at a
x large bank and used my Macintosh for
fi producing everything from spreadsheets
to a company newsletter.
“Today I use Macintosh to help me
run my own management consult.
ing firm. When give a presentation,
I can see in people's faces
that they're really impressed.
And that makes me feel great.
“Sometimes I take Friday
off, put my Macintosh and skis
in the car, and head for the
mountains. I ski days and work
nights. It's perfect.

“You know, I can't say
where I'll be in five, ten, or
fifteen years, but I can say that

my Macintosh will be there
with me?

For more info
contact the
Computer Center
Tucker Hall
Room 215A

Why do people love Macintosh’?
Ask them.

¢ 1990 Apple Computer, inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc

rounding girls’ schools who come in
to party and try to drive back that,
night.”

Both Smith and O'Neil attribute’
the decline to new and stricter laws, »
successful designated driver programs
and support in the community in‘
educating people about the problem. ,

‘So much emphasis is being put»
on the problem and its paying off,”
said Smith, although he said he be-*
lieves it is more a fear of getting ,
caught than anything else that is
keeping students from driving drunk. }

O'Neil agreed that a _ certain
amount of fear and intimidation is’
effective ‘‘because if we're out there ,
and you know we're out there, maybe
you won’t drink and drive.’’ ‘

«

 

sg

tli ln

se”
SPORTS

Perez leads W&L
-by U of R in OT

 

: By John Neumann
» Staff Reporter

q

The Washington and Lee water
* polo team improved its record to 7-
1 by winning the Virginia State
" Championships in dramatic fashion
, last weekend at the University of
Richmond.
‘ After breezing through their first
three opponents, head coach Page
* Remillard’s team faced their toughest
, Challenge, top seeded and arch-rival
University of Richmond, in the Spi-
* ders’ web.
, Four quarters went by, and both
teams had netted nine goals. The
« teams than battled in two overtime
periods to determine the victor.
’ Following the first overtime period,
, Richmond held a 3-1 advantage over
the Generals.
+ But the W&L defense stiffened,
keeping UR out of the nets, and the
‘ offense got going just in time to
, Score twice to stay alive and reach
sudden death.
+ Neither team scored in the first
sudden-death period, but in the sec-
* ond, the outcome was decided. Se-
, hior co-captain Tomas Perez ended
Richmond’s hopes with a goal that
‘gave W&L a 13-12 win and the
, championship. It was the second goal
for Perez in the overtime and third in
« the game.
, . His championship game heroics,
along with his steady tournament play
+ earned Perez a spot on the all-state
, team. Teammate Will Davis, a ju-
nior, was also named to the team.
+ W&L’s road to the championship
, Was relatively easy. The Generals
routed Lynchburg 21-8, Mary Wash-
’ Pg 15-4, and Hampden-Sydney
15-8.
* For the tournament, Perez scored
« eight goals, two off the team pace set
, by sophomore Scott Strader who

Pope’s legs not enough as Centre beats W&L 24-13

 

* By Jay Plotkin
, Sports Editor

 

tat

4

Coming. into this season, Wash-
+ ington and Lee hadn’t beaten Centre
College in football at Centre since
* 1980. For 30 minutes last Saturday, it
+ looked like the Generals would
finally beat the ‘‘Centre Jinx.’’
* —W&L opened up a 13-3 second
¢ quarter lead behind the running of
senior tailback Mason Pope and tough
* defensive play to keep the nation’s
+ third-leading rusher, Tim McDaniel,
in check. But the ‘‘Centre Jinx’’
* kicked in late in the second quarter,
+ and the Generals fell to the Colonels
, 2413.
Centre scored first on a David
« Harr 37-yard field goal. The Generals
took the ensuing kickoff and began
* their first drive of the day.
, Sophomore linebacker Evans Ed-
wards started the drive with a sliding
+ catch of a low kickoff at the W&L

tallied ten goals in the four games.
Strader leads the team in scoring with
eighteen goals in eight games and his
converting shots at a 53 percent clip.

The Generals and Spiders will
square off once again Friday night at
Cy Twombly Pool at 7:30 p.m. in a
rematch of the State Championship
thriller.

If their past meetings are any
indications of what this match will
show, it will no doubt go down to
the wire. The past three meetings
between these two teams have all
ended with one goal differences,
twice being decided in overtime.
Remillard said, ‘‘We’ve beaten Rich-
mond at a neutral site (South Varsity
Invitational) and at their pool, now
we have to do it here.’’

Remillard’s team is young, but
that has not stopped them from rising
to third in the Division III rankings,
behind only University of California
at San Diego and . Claremont-
McKenna.

‘*There is no individual superstar
on this team. The team is the star,”’
said Remillard. ‘‘If the other team
stops the six players in the pool,
guys will come off the bench and
beat you.”’

Remillard believes that team play
rather than individuals will push the
team to the next level.

Some looked at 1990 as a rebuild-
ing year for the Generals, but not
Remillard. Rebuilding is associated
with losing, he said, and his team
would not adopt that philosophy.
‘*You take what you have and do the
best you can.’’

There are no long term goals set
for the team except to keep improv-
ing and try to make progress as a
team. However, Remillard did men-
tion one thing that would make this
season a sweet one. ‘“‘It will be a
great season if we beat Richmond
every time we play them.”’

41. Wanting to establish the run, the
Generals called on Pope to

m
raion 10 bi x
Wed running ‘plays, including ‘a

'15-yards scamper by junior slot back
Jeff Kreis got the ball to the Centre
41, and Pope went to work. Two
Straight carries gained eight yards
each and a third gained four more to
put the ball on the 22-yard line.

Junior quarterback George Sakin
then rolled left and kept the ball for
a gain of 12 to the 10-yard line, and
Pope went back to work. A nine-
yard burst got the ball to the one-
yard line, and two plays later, Pope
scored to give the Generals a 7-3
lead.

Ordinarily a passing team, the
Generals did not attempt a pass on
their first drive, going 59 yards in 10
plays, all runs behind the offensive
line of seniors Rob Christensen, Rob
Roberton, Frank Sudell and juniors
Jim Henry and Rob Thomas.

Said Fallon, ‘‘We knew coming

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant

‘ Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

. $$$,

, CATHOLIC
CAMPUS
' MINISTRY

: St. Patrick’s Church
Mass Schedule

 

Saturday 5:00 p.m.

: Sunday 8:00 a.m.
‘ 10:30 a.m.

‘Does Religion have a place on a secular
campus!’’
A Student/Faculty Dialogue
Thursday, Sept. 27th
Student Center Room 113
from noon until 1:00 p.m.
, Bring Your Lunch!

 
  

Caps (Sized W&L

 

UNIVERSITY
SPORT WEAR

W&L Imprinted Sportswear Plus:
Oakley Sunglasses, New Era Baseball

With W&L win over R-MC, all
shirts discounted (Must bring
program.) Open 7 Days A Week

15 W. Washington St.
464-3000

463-7969

 

 

audiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O CwD

KEF NEC
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

+ ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

Caps Due Shortly.)

“had to take ¥

  
 
       
   
     
     

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

 

W&L opens
ODAC with
Sweet Briar

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

 

Washington and Lee women’s
volleyball will host Sweet Briar to-
night at home, and head coach Susan
Dittman hopes a large turnout from
the student body will root her team
on to victory.

After falling twice to Sweet Briar
last year, once during the regular
season, and once in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference tournament,
Dittman and the Generals are gunning
for their old foe like Michigan shoots
for Notre Dame.

The 5-5 Generals face a tough
conference opener which may deter-
mine whether or not they will con-
tend for the ODAC title this year.
All this pressure on a team that is
only beginning to gel.

“This is the first time we have
really had everyone here,”’ said Ditt-
man, reflecting on the toll injuries
have taken so far this year.

Senior captain Lisa Jay, and ju-
niors Rashmi Sachan and Marcy
Brown all suffered brief setbacks with
early season injuries. Both Sachan’s
consistent serving and Brown's steady
defense are vital cogs in the W&L
line-up. Jay’s setting game is critical

. to an effective offensive attack.

.In their final preseason matches
before Thursday’s ODAC season-
opener, the Generals met Shenandoah
and Southern Seminary last Friday,
September 21. Shenandoah provided
the only memorable competition as
W&L fell in three games, 2-15, 15-
5, 7-15. Junior captain Mena Mc-
Gowin led the team with 10 kills and
16 digs. Sophomore Leslie Hess
contributed six kills while Jay, back
to old form, handed out 22 assists.

“We're playing very __in-
consistently right now,’’ said Dittman.
“This team could beat anyone and
could lose to anyone.”’

With injuries hampering the team,

into the game that they tend to drop
seven people to defend the pass. We

they gave us the run.”’

W&L extended ‘the lead in the
second quarter after two big defensive
plays. The first came with Centre
facing a fourth and one from the
Generals’ one-yard line. Quarterback
Kelly Sandidge tried to sneak in for
the touchdown, but he fumbled the
ball into the end zone and junior
Fred Renneker covered it for the
Generals.

The second big play came when
backup quarterback Michael Jackson
tried to pass from his own 19. Senior
Brad Miller intercepted his pass and
returned the ball to the 23-yard line.
Two plays later, Pope scored from
five yards out to give the Generals a
13-3 lead.

On the afternoon, Pope ran for
119 yards on 28 carries, both season
highs. Said Pope, ‘‘The offensive
line blocked really well, so our runn-

 

 

 

 

Running away

Patrick Hinely.

Junior Charles Edwards leads the pack in Saturday’s cross
country meet. Edwards placed first, but Mary Washington .
topped the Generals. Story on page 8. W&L photo by W.

 

 

 

 

they gave us, and

Dittman has been forced to shuffle
the starting line-up. Hess will be
moved to quick-hitter and freshman
Tara Burns will see considerable
playing time outside. She may start
against Sweet Briar.

Following tonight’s big match that
Starts at 6 p.m., the Generals will
head north for the Catholic University
tournament. There they

ing game tumed out pretty well.
Everything was coming together.”’

And then the Centre Jinx kicked
in. ‘In the past, Centre has gotten
some big special teams plays against
us. Two years ago, they scored two
touchdowns off special teams and
beat us 30-16,’’ said Fallon.

On the ensuing kickoff, Bert
Driver returned Carter Quayle’s kick
up the W&L sideline for 56 yards to
the W&L 36-yard line. Four plays
later, Tim McDaniel scored from four
yards out to make it a 13-10 game at
the half.

The late touchdown gave the
Colonels momentum to start the
second half, and Centre rode that
momentum on their first drive of the
half. After driving to the W&L 30-
yard line, McDaniel took over the
game. He carried for 18 yards to the
12 and three plays later scored his
second touchdown of the game,
giving Centre a 17-13 lead.

To start the fourth period, the

| ( Sppance
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(703)463-5988

DPPVP OLIV PVP AP VPP! LP VAP AP APO AP POMP AP PAPO

 

meet defending tournament champ
Gettysburg and Catholic. Catholic
topped W&L at the Haverford
Tournament earlier this season.

‘We're hoping to take first or
second this year,’’ said Dittman.

Lofty expectations? Possibly, but
that’s what it will take if the Gener-
als are to win in the ODAC.

Generals had a chance to regain the
lead after Harr missed a field goal
from 37 yards: out. W&L took over
on ds own 20, and after moving out
tothe 35, faced a second down and
10. Sakin tried a throwback pass to
junior tight end Brian Hodges, but
Centre’s Scott Downey intercepted it
and retumed it to the W&L six-yard
line.

“The receiver was open — the
tight end on a safety valve play. But
their defensive end stopped his rush
and hid in the open area and
intercepted the pass,’’ said Fallon.
‘‘Not only that, he returned it to our
six-yard line. That kind of deflated
us.””

Two plays later, McDaniel scored
to make it 24-13 and ice the game
for the Colonels. On the day, he ran
for 151 yards, 46 yards under his
average.

Said Fallon on his team’s perfor-
mance, ‘‘Looking at the film, the one
thing I see is that our team needs to

thé’ éortiplete 60 ‘full’ riiriutes.

i

Generals top
Marymount,
fall to RC

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

 

For goalkeeper Kate Stimeling,
zero has been a recurring number so
far this season.

Through six games the freshman ;
has recorded four shutouts while
allowing just four goals as the Wash- .
ington and Lee women’s soccer team
has posted a 4-2 record.

The first goal allowed by the.
Generals this year slid between the
posts with :44 seconds remaining in:

the match at Virginia Wesleyan this »:

past Thursday. The other three were
scored on Tuesday as W&L lost to’
Roanoke, ranked sixth in the South
Region, 3-1 at Liberty Hall Field.

“IT thought Kate played great, .

considering our defense didn’t have
its best game,’’ said head coach
Janine Hathorn.

‘*She made some _

great saves to keep the score where it

was. Roanoke scored twice on one-
on-one breakaways and those are
tough situations.’’

Speaking for herself, Stimeling
attributed her success this season to
other players on the field.

‘We have a very good defense
and there is good communication
between myself and them, especially
[junior] Nancy Mitchell. She’s an
outstanding sweeper,’’ Stimeling said.

After the loss to Roanoke, Ha-
thorn said the chances were there for
W&L, but so were some problems.

‘This was the first time we had
a solid opportunity to beat Roanoke,”’
she said. ‘‘But we had problems
anticipating the ball and playing hard
consistently. Those were the holes
Roanoke exploited. They caught us
flat a couple of times and that was
all they needed. But we needed to
learn that someone could score more
than one goal against us.’’

Q Please see SOCCER page 8

get some consistency. There wasn’t

one aspect of the game--offense, +}

defense or special teams--that played),

‘‘We did make some good plays
offensively, some great plays defen-
sively and our special teams came
through at times, but to beat a team
like Centre you need to be able to
function with all the valves open all
the time. We just didn’t do that.’’

Said senior split end Craig Irons,
‘‘We came out ready to play. In the

first half things went really ‘well. :

Then we all made some physical and
mental errors. We got behind and had
to play catch-up football, and the
passing game just wasn’t there for us.
We’re looking for a much better
game this week.”’

The Generals, 1-2 on the season,
play host to Randolph-Macon, 2-1,
Saturday on Wilson Field at 1:30.
WLUR-FM (91.5) and WREL-AM
(1450) will broadcast all the action.

 

 

PO

 

MAGAZINES

Smithsonian,
New York, Premiere
Sporting News, Elle

Sports Illustrated
Metropolitan Home
Glamour, Cosmopolitan

 

& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-4096
Open daily from 10AM-7PM/Sundays from Noon - 6 PM

Rolling Stone

 

 

 

 

 

 

Open Daily 10 am

 

 

American Southwest. Nepal. Thailand. india

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington
7 pm/Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

y
:
‘
‘
%

a

afew Se

o>»

ene Spresie Se

       
 

»

 
 

RTS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

Cross country runs tough in loss

 

By John Kleckley
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams lost
to Mary Washington this past Satur-
day, but in two very different fash-
ions.

In dropping their first meet of the
season, the W&L women were over-
matched by a more powerful team.
Mary Washington captured the top
seven spots (only the top five are
counted in the scoring) to’ score the
minimum 15 points. W&L finished
with 50 points.

In defense of the women’s per-
formance, head coach Jim Phemister
pointed out that Mary Washington is
the strongest team in the state and
has advanced to the NCAA Division
Ill championships two of the last five
years.

Despite losing 22-32 to a strong
Mary Washington squad, men’s coach
John Tucker said he considers it a
win by pointing out that last year’s
score was 18-42.

Tucker admitted that Mary Wash-
ington had a better team but stressed
that the score could have been even
closer if senior co-captain Kennon

Walthall, who was out with a sore
hamstring, participated and if a
couple of other runners had not had
disappointing times.

Junior Charles Edwards won the
race in 27:52, giving him his second
victory in as many meets. Edwards’
time was the fastest on W&L’s
course in the last two seasons, and he
shaved almost 45 seconds off his
time from the same point last season.

Tucker credits Edwards’
advancement on intense personal
preparation both during summer and
weekly practice, but he is not the
only runner showing improvement.

Sophomores Bo Hannah and Keith
Rinn, and junior Lee Parker are well
ahead of last year’s pace, said Tuck-
er. Newcomer David Martin, a junior
track standout, has also performed
well, finishing fourth for the team in
both meets.

“The guys are motivated and
they’re running on their own in the
morning,’’ Tucker said.

Since Mary Washington is not an

Old Dominion Athletic Conference
member, the Generals will have to
wait until the state tournament to race
them again. Both W&L teams will
face Norfolk State and Roanoke on
Saturday at Roanoke.

Staff adds new coaches

 

From W&L Sports Information

Four new assistant coaches in the
sports of football, men’s soccer/la-
crosse and aquatics have joined the
Washington and Lee coaching staffs.

Debbie Thompson comes to W&L
from Kent State and serves as assis-
tant coach for the water polo and
swimming teams. A graduate of
Purdue, Thompson was a member of
two school record-setting relay teams
and two NCAA-qualifying relay
teams. She was head coach of the
women’s swim team at Oberlin in
1989.

Steven Bristol comes to W&L
from the Trinity-Pawling School in
Pawling, N.Y. and is an assistant
coach in men's soccer and lacrosse.
At Trinity, Bristol taught both En-

glish and mathematics and coached
varsity soccer, junior varsity lacrosse
and served as an assistant trainer.

Gavin Colliton, a 1984 graduate
of Salisbury State College, comes to
W&L from Princeton and coaches the
defensive line for head coach Gary
Fallon’s football team. At Princeton,
he was an assistant in charge of
linebackers and special teams.

Also joining the football staff is
Frank Miriello. Méiriello is in his
second stint as an assistant to Fallon.
He assisted Fallon from 1978 to
1982. Miriello was most recently the
head football and lacrosse coach at
Mercersburg Academy. Miriello will
work with linebackers this season.
He will also serve as an assistant
coach on the men’s lacrosse team.

Junior Charles Edwards rounds a turn en route to a win in
Saturday’s cross country meet against Mary Washington. He
finished with a time of 27:52. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

 

 

 

SOCCER

from page 7

The Generals took a 1-0 lead
about 20 minutes into the first half
on freshman Karen Stutzmann’s goal.
The Lady Maroons returned after
halftime to score three times, the
final two on breakaways.

On Saturday W&L defeated Mary-
mount 1-0 in Arlington, Va. Stutz-
mann scored the only goal that the
Generals would need, her second
game-winning goal of the season.

‘“‘She’s really coming on well.
When she starts to get comfortable, I
think she’ll be pretty explosive,’’

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

Sophomore Reid Murphy and
freshman Dan Rhodes have been in
the right place at the right time this
year.

With seven games played in the
1990 season Murphy and Rhodes
have emerged as the leading scorers
for the Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team.

Murphy and Rhodes each scored
a goal in Saturday’s 3-3 tie at Roa-

 

 

Giveaways galore at water

polo, football halftimes

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

The Washington and Lee
University Athletics Promotion
Committee has two halftime give-
aways scheduled this weekend.

On Friday night, the water
polo team will play a single game
against the University of Rich-
mond in Cy Twombly Pool. At
halftime, a raffle will be held.
Winners will participate in a
halftime contest to throw a water
polo ball into a hoop from the
balcony seats.

On Saturday, the W&L foot-
ball team will host Randolph-
Macon College. Another raffle

will be held, and winners will
participate in a halftime contest
involving a nerf football. Those
selected through the raffle will
receive prizes, and the winner of
the contest wins the grand prize.

All those selected to partici-
pate in the contests will receive a
prize. Those who win the grand
prize will receive a free dinner at
a local restaurant.

Frank’s Pizza, The Palms and
the W&L Food Service will be
giving away free dinners and the
University Store and the W&L
Bookstore will be giving away
hats, tee-shirts and sweatshirts.
You must be present at the game
to win a prize.

noke, and Murphy helped create the
Generals’ lone goal in Monday’s 1-
1 tie with Guilford. Murphy now has
five goals while Rhodes has three.

‘Sometimes it’s just a matter of
being in the right place at the right
time,’’ Rhodes said.

Murphy explained that most of his
goals come from determination, and
not necessarily from good shots.

“It’s obviously a team effort, but
I’m looking to score when I can,”’
Murphy said.

Head coach Rolf Piranian said
Murphy and Rhodes have been op-
portunistic in taking their shots.

“Those two have been the right
guys at the right time. We don’t have
a prime target to go to.’’ he said.
“But offensively and defensively
we've got to have 11 guys do their
job.”’

In the first half against Roanoke
the Generals did not do their job as
they fell behind 2-0.

In the second half, though, W&L

 

 

 

 

 

HE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDE

THE SMART MONEY AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE
IS GOING WITH TIAA-CREF

UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ON IT.

 

aren teen at ea ORR ty tected

‘Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

463-2742

Hathorn said.

'

that we hung in there very well. We
outshot them and they got away with
a somewhat fortunate win,’’ she said. «

This week the Generals will play '
at Emory, ranked 11th in Division ,
Ill, on Sunday and host Randolph- |
Macon on Tuesday. p

“Right now, we're down, but
we're not out,’’ Hathorn said. ‘‘If we‘
keep up our enthusiam we'll be,
okay.”’

Generals struggling .
as schedule heats up

came back to knot the score at 2-2, '
With 1:41 elapsed, Rhodes headed the |
ball into the goal. With 18 minutes
remaining in the game, junior:
midfielder Dave Hooker sent a shot
to the right corner of the net.

The Maroons scored again on a.
breakaway with 11 minutes left. Two
minutes later Murphy, on a crossing .
pass from Hooker, flicked the ball
from the right to the inside of the‘
left post to make the score 3-3.

“That was a real moral victory
for us,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘We made,
some mistakes, but we’re excited that
the kids came back and played with ‘
intensity.”’

At Liberty Hall Field on Monday,
collisions were the name of the game. ‘
W&L scored first after Murphy col- ,
lided with Guilford goalie Will
Grimes. The ball popped loose and '
Mitchem kicked it into the net.

The Quakers evened the score late
in the first half, also off a collision. *
This time sophomore goaltender Mike ,
Steinbrook was hit, lost his grip on
the ball and had it kicked past him. '

Yesterday afternoon, W&L lost to ,
Shenandoah 2-0 in Winchester, Va.
W&L was outshot 17-13. ‘

This week, W&L, now 2-3-2, has ,
two matches on the road. The team
will head to Atlanta to play Emory ’
on Sunday and travel to Hampden- ,
Sydney next Tuesday.

‘The rest of the teams we play '
are more talented than us,”’ Piranian ,
said. ‘‘The only salvation we have is
to play better as a team. We better ‘
have our act together.’’

¢

;  OnenT
House in Country
463-5383

 

 

TOSHIBA

aa All Battery Powered Laptops
= N IN STOCK

 
 

 

 

 

know that your future depends on

how well your retirement system
performs. TIAA-CREF has been the
premier retirement system for people
in education and research for over 70
years. We have enabled over 200,000
people like you to enjoy a comfortable
retirement. And over 1,000,000 more
are now planning for the future with
TIAA-CREF.

SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY,
GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR
RETIREMENT SAVINGS.

Security—so the resources are there
when it is time to retire. Growth—so
you'll have enough income for the
kind of retirement you want. And
diversity —to help protect you against
market volatility and to let you benefit
from several types of investments.

THAT’S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET
WITH TIAA-CREF,

TIAA offers you the safety of a
traditional annuity that guarantees
your principal plus a specified rate of
interest, and provides for additional

B ecause it does. Smart investors

growth through dividends. CREF’s
variable annuity offers opportunities
for growth through four different
investment accounts, each managed
with the long-term perspective essen-
tial to sound retirement planning:

The CREF Stock Account

The CREF Money Market Account

The CREF Bond Market Account*

The CREF Social Choice Account*

CALL 1-800-842-2776
TO FIND OUT MORE

Our experienced retirement counselors
will be happy to answer your questions
and tell you more about retirement
annuities from TIAA-CREF.

Experience. Performance. Strength.
Your future is protected by the largest
private retirement system in the world.
We have done so well, for so many, for
so long, that we currently manage
some $85 billion in assets.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

* The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are

available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans.

 

For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call | 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a
prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.

 

wooo xt LOWEST PRIGES EVER
T1200 XE WITH
T1600 EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNTS!
T3100 SX
Call about your EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNT today!
DSR, Inc
1-800-326-0037

 

 

 

 

eee

 

DELTA GAMMA

is proud to present
the 1990 colony pledge members
at Washington & Lee

Meredith Gronroos
Laura Howard
Karin Johnston
Kathryn Lopiccolo
Kimberly Marcott

Elizabeth Besenfelder
Karen Bosi

Mignon Krockard
Alice Cythers

Julie Edgar

Tonya Yoder

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

9

Football & Murphy’s Law: Wé&L vs. RMC

 

‘ By Jay Plotkin
_, Sports Editor

Anything that can go wrong will go wrong at the

, Worst possible moment.

Murphy could have written his golden rule based on

* the football series between state rivals Randolph-Macon

and Washington and Lee. For a football team, that time

* could be on an extra point situation.

One of the most important — and most overlooked -
— facets of a football game is the point-after-touchdown.

* Successful extra points can win games. And missed

PATs can be fatal.

No one knows this better that W&L head football
coach Gary Fallon. Through the Generals rivalry with
R-MC, Fallon has seen all too many times how costly a

* missed extra point can be, for either team.

The two Old Dominion Athletic Conference foes

* have met 37 times over the years, with W&L holding a

19-15-3 edge. In the 1980s, the Generals held a 5-4-1
edge in the 10 games played. Three of the last four

“ games and seven of the 10 were decided by a touchdown

_ or less. Or a missed extra point.
Said Fallon, ‘‘It seems that when we play

» Randolph-Macon, the queer and odd seems to happen.’’

In 1980 and 1981, R-MC came from behind to win
both games with a combined margin of seven points. In
1980, the Yellow Jackets won 14-10 on a fourth quarter

“ touchdown. In 1981, R-MC prevailed 13-10 on another
e fourth quarter touchdown. But, oddly enough, the extra

point was no good, possibly setting the stage for years to
come.

On October 2, 1982, the Generals hosted R-MC on
Homecoming. The game started slowly. W&L took the

., early lead on senior Bill Devine’s 25-yard field goal late

‘in the first quarter.

R-MC then went to work. On the second play of
the second quarter, R-MC took the lead when Gary
Richins went in from eight yards out, giving R-MC a 6-3
lead. But Reid Laughlin’s extra point attempt was wide
ight.

‘ After forcing a W&L punt, R-MC went back on the
attack. On first down from the R-MC 46, Richins went
off left tackle for 54 yards and his second touchdown of
the afternoon. Again, the kick was no good, this time
Cody Dearing was guilty of the miss, and R- MC was
forced to settle for the 12-3 lead.

Devine added a second field goal to close the gap
to 12-6 at the half. With a touchdown and successful

' conversion, W&L was still in a position where one score

would give them a lead.
And with 6:10 left in the third quarter, senior

« tailback Chris Cavalline capped a four-play, 20-yard drive

“

~

deal fobs eu,

 

}papers;,

with a one-yard touchdown run. But with the score tied
at 12, Devine missed the PAT to the right, and the
Generals were unable to take the lead.

R-MC regained the lead on Richins’ third touch-

_ down of the day, set up by a 76-yard scamper by Alan

Wright. This time, Dearing’s extra-point was good, and

R-MC led 19-12.

After R-MC kicked off, W&L gained possession at
po gol | see ete q i ? Wi

Me

FRAT

 

 

GEN LLL!

its own 37, With sophomore John Thompson at quarter-
back having taken over for Al Paradise late in the first
half, W&L drove to the R-MC one-yard line, where Gene
Girard scored to finish the job.

But because the Generals had missed an earlier extra
point, they still trailed by one, 19-18, and Fallon elected
to go for two points and the lead. Thompson's pass was
caught by Cavalline for the conversion and a 20-19 lead,
which the defense made stand up. And that was the
first game where missed extra points affected the out-
come.

In 1986, almost four years to the day, W&L and
R-MC hooked up on Wilson Field in what was one of
the most exciting games of the decade for both teams.

The teams played to a 7-7 tie through three quarters,
with W&L scoring on a 17-yard pass from Jon Thornton
to Gar Prebor in the second quarter and R-MC scoring
on a 41-yard interception retum by Doug Wright.

Thornton gave W&L a 14-7 lead with a one-yard
dive to cap a seven-play drive highlighted by Kevin
Weaver's 51-yard run. R-MC tied it at 14 with 4:12 left
on Paul Dillard’s 23-yard pass to Billy Beatty.

After the W&L defense stopped Remon Smith for
no gain on fourth down at the W&L 47, the offense took
over with 2:02 left on the clock. Thornton, who threw
for 174 yards on the day, went to the air. In R-MC
territory, he hit Randy Brown, who made a diving catch
at the one-yard line for a 33-yard gain.

Two dives into the line got Weaver nowhere, so on
third down, he went airborne over the left side of the
line for the touchdown with only 32 seconds left.

After a fight broke out and was settled, W&L lined
up, for the extra point. Bill Crabill’s kick never had a
chance. Rob Howard blocked it for the Yellow Jackets,
but nonetheless, W&L still led 20-14 with just 32
seconds left.

Said Fallon, ‘‘I was hoping 32 seconds would be
enough. We had the game won.”’

Then Murphy's law really kicked in. With 25
seconds left, R- MC started on their own 42-yard line.
Dillard hit Lance Hering with a strike of 35 yards, to the
W&L 23. After an illegal
procedure penalty stopped the clock, Dillard hit Smith for
a gain of seven to the 21 with 12 seconds left.

Dillard then dropped back for one last pass attempt.
‘The pass was tipped by one of our players. Then one
of their players deflected it, and another one of our
players deflected it. It was finally caught by a receiver
who came from across the field who ended up lying in
the end zone with one second left,’’ said Fallon.

That receiver was Hering. He then did what his
counterpart Crabill couldn't do. He kicked the extra
point, and R-MC snatched victory from the jaws of
defeat with a 21-20 win.

‘‘We were hoping 32 seconds would be enough.
We outplayed them, but they stole it from us at the very
end,’’ said Fallon.

The rivalry intensified as the drama, and the missed
extra points continued the following season back in
Ashland. Smith and W&L’s Chris Coffland traded
five-yard touchdown runs in the final three minutes of
the first quarter to keep the game tied going into the

WE DELIVER!

 

 

delivered to

Dm.

 

In addition.
fing the PAi

ation.

 

Please do not send your
pledges to pick up
The Phi will be

the

fraternity houses every
Thursday evening after 5

you can now
in the Co-op

Tnank you ior you cooper-

a
4

 

 

 

 

ee

 

 

Bob Martin gets a block from Keith Boyd (86) on his way to a 70-yard catch and run during the 1988
game against Randolph-Macon. The game ended in a 10-10 tle. File photo.

second quarter. Smith’s touchdown would be a preview
of coming attractions. He would score twice more on the
day, running at will.

W&L made an attempt to break the game wide open
in the second quarter. Phillip Sampson threw two
touchdown passes in the final 2:21, one to John Roe
from three yards out and one to Hugh Finklestein from
47 yards out with 26 seconds left in the half. Carter
Quayle converted both PAT’s to make it a 21-7 game at
the half.

R-MC started to come back in the third quarter.
Quarterback Rick Kline hit Scott Lincoln from 31 yards
out to make it a 21-14 game midway through the third
quarter. W&L answered the score on Sampson's third
touchdown pass of the day, the second to Finklestein,
from nine yards out. But Quayle missed the extra point.

Smith then took over for the Yellow Jackets. After
the kickoff, R-MC climbed aboard Smith’s shoulder pads
and rode him for 11 plays and 76 yards in 3:51 for a
touchdown that made the score 27-21 W&L at the end of
the third quarter.

After getting the ball back, Smith went back to
work. He capped a 10-play, 73-yard drive with an
eight-yard run with 3:45 left on the clock. Mark Palm-
gren’s kick was good, and R-MC led 28-27.

This time, though, W&L had more than one second
left. But a freshman kickoff returner didn’t need more
than one second. Carl Gilbert settled under the kick at
the 18-yard-line, took it up the gut and then broke out to
the sideline. Eighty-two yards later, the Generals led

2
&

To put the Generals ahead by a full touchdown,
Fallon elected to go for two points, and Sampson came
— with a pass to Roe, giving the Generals a 35-28
lead.

Said Fallon, ‘‘When we recruited Carl, he didn’t
have much size, but he did have speed. His coach told
me that if we gave him the chance, that he would bring
back a kickoff or a punt for a touchdown, and dammed if
it didn’t win us a ball game.’’

But with 3:28 left, R-MC still had Smith, and plenty
of time to pull out another miracle. Said Fallon, ‘‘We
kicked off, and Smith just started running. He had a
couple of good runs, but he realized time was running
out. So on one run, he broke through the line and saw
that he could get out of bounds, but on his way out, he
pulls a hamstring. You never like to see a player get
hurt, and we were glad it wasn’t a serious injury, but we
sure were glad that he wouldn’t be around for the end of
our game.”’

Smith left the game, and R-MC lost the ball on
downs, and the Generals came away with a 35-28 win.
On the afternoon, Smith was all but unstoppable,
running for 298 yards on 47 carries.

Said Fallon, ‘‘I hate to even start thinking about
luck at the end of a game, and it started to cross my
mind when they got the ball back that we might not be
lucky enough to stop them, but we were able to pull it

" Although the missed extra point is one of the most
dreaded things in football, it has made for an exciting
rivalry between W&L and R-MC.

QQQQMG"”7"="F"_ [1 SS, gg 040 yo gy} Ooi 4 O™"l”|_"’

Name:

PARENTS
ALUMNI

Stay informed of what’s going on
at Washington and Lee

Subscribe to

The Ring-tum Phi

W&L’s only student newspaper
P.O. Box 899
Lexington, Va.

24450

ee a eee

Enclosed is my check for $25

Please bill me when my issues

start arriving

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

> | ER:

 

|
| Address:
:
i

DA AW

sith ociehiititniaaiiaaiins lite eaia utp aanae nama esasanel

WU oh""—F Fw Rx Ww iW

; aan io

QQ] G WW
 

 

 

W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

 

 

Outdoorsmen together indoors

Environmental issues draw diverse freshmen together

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

Unlike most freshmen who find
themselves thrown into a hodge-podge
mix of people on their halls, 32
freshmen knew exactly what type of
neighbors they were going to have
when they moved in this year.

Two dorm halls were set aside
over the summer for incoming fresh-
men who expressed interest in
“environmental issues and outing
activities,” according to Associate
Dean of Students Ken Ruscio.

Sixteen male and sixteen female
freshmen who responded positively to
a letter sent out over the summer by
Ruscio to all incoming freshmen were
placed on the halls. All the women
respondents were placed on_ the
second floor of Baker Dorm, and,
because of space limitations, all but
four male respondents were placed on
the first floor of Graham-Lees Dorm.

Dorm Counselors Jodi Herring
and Bill Murray, both members of

W&L’s Outing Club, were asked by
Ruscio to lead these halls.

Ruscio said that he used environ-
mental issues for the first experiment
in placing freshmen in halls by inter-
est because these issues and the ac-
tivities ‘‘cut across majors and other
activities.”’

‘‘The freshmen on these halls are
all very different people, but they
have this one common interest,’’ he
said.

Leland Yee, a freshman on Mur-
ray’s hall agreed, saying,‘*‘People are
all quite different here, but we’re all
interested in the environment.”’

Ruscio said he expected that most
of the freshmen would eventually join
the Outing Club, but that doing so
was not a requirement for rooming
on these halls.

“It’s not technically an Outing
Club hall,’ he said, ’’but they’ll
probably mostly end up in it.”’

Murray and Herring, along with
other members of the Outing Club,
organized a hike up House Mountain
on the Saturday after classes began.

According to Betsy Kliner, a sopho-
more who went along on the hike,
the group picked up garbage along
the path during the moming hike.

With help from residents of these
halls, the Outing Club has expanded
their recycling program begun last
spring. The club placed trash cans
for recycling aluminum on all fresh-
men halls and in fraternity houses.

“It’s actually working, the recy-
cling cans are full of aluminum and
the garbage cans are full of gar-
bage,’’ said Blair Simmons, a senior
dorm counselor.

Simmons also said some freshmen
have been asking if the program will
be expanded next year to create halls
for other subjects and interests. A
few freshmen asked if they could
have a ‘‘Pro-life’’ hall.

“‘One even suggested a broccoli-
haters hall,’’ she said.

According to the Outing Club’s
Faculty advisor, Kirk Follo of the
German department, the hall place-
ments are ‘‘still just an experiment.”’

Ruscio agreed, saying, ‘‘It’s an

 

 

a

 

 

 

Dean Ken Ruscio

experiment for a year. Maybe we'll
expand it to other areas, maybe not,
but I have no other subjects in mind
right now.”’

Concert guild begins season

 

« By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

 

Washington and Lee University’s
Concert Guild began its season with
the Virginia Tech resident string
quartet Tuesday night at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

“One of the reasons I suggested
the Concert Guild hire the Audubon
Quartet,’’ said Professor Timothy
Gaylard, advisor of the W&L Concert
Guild, ‘‘is that there is a connection
with W&L and the quartet.

‘The idea of having a resident
quartet at Virginia Tech was one that
the president of the university had.
At the time, their president was John

sneer

D. Wilson,”’ he said.

The concert included a twentieth
century piece by Benjamin Britten
which combines the different sounds
of the strings and oboe, an eighteenth
century quartet by Beethoven, and a
nineteenth century autobiographical
romantic work by Smetana.

The W&L Concert Guild is a
group of 13 to 14 students who
decide which performers will visit the
campus during the concert series.

Lauren Rowland, a Concert Guild
member, said the Guild members are
involved in the music department.

“‘The members of the Concert
Guild are active in the music en-
sembles as well as in the musicology
or theory courses,”’ said Rowland.

ea ot dy

The Guild members help the musi-
cians with their performances, host
receptions, and arrange for master
classes or interaction between the
professional and the music student.

‘*The members represent the stu-
dents on campus who are interested
in music and in classical music,”’ said
Gaylard. ‘‘The Guild tries to offer a
balanced season with chamber, or-
chestral, vocal and contemporary
classical music.”’

Gaylard and his wife will have a
dual recital next Tuesday in Lee
Chapel, said Gaylard. Gaylard will
perform Becthoven’s Pathetique
Sonata and Mozart’s Fantasy in C
minor, Gaylard will also accompany
his wife’s vocal performance of six

 

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY

 

 

Mh
ouse of
ae fA.

 

0 Raeford Grade

a

‘A
PRE
eR

LOW PRICES!

eG
SSK
SKN
SSS

—
ACS

i

+S

xX
AN \
s.

AN
S

WS

aS

 

 

 

 

   

Washington State Red Or Golden

Delicious

 

 

 

 

Elizabethan poems set to music by
the contemporary composer Dominick
Argento, and four songs and two arias
by Puccini.

The Concert Guild series includes
The Mozartean Players, who perform
with and will discuss the original
instruments of Mozart’s time. Later,
the contemporary ensemble Aequalis
will give an inside look into ‘‘the
business’’ of professional musicians.

Florida State University Professor
of Violin Eliot Chapo will conduct a
master class with the violin students.
The Netherlands Wind Ensemble will
conclude the series with a week long
residency to teach and perform with
the music students at W&L.

 

F
8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Jean de Florette (Franca, 1987), directed by
Claud Berri. Classroom "A," L@wis Hall. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETICS: VOLLEYBALL: Gatholic University
Tournament; MEN'S TENNIS: Emory.
| SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29
Yom Kippur.
1:30 p.m. FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon College. Wilson
Field.
8 p.m FILM SQGIETY: Jean de Florette (France, 1937). Classroom
"A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETICS: CROSS COUNTRY: Norfolk State,
Roanoke College; TENNIS: Emory.
Sui 30
AWAY ATHLETICS: SOCCER (M&W): Emory ; WOMEN'S
TENNIS: Emory.
June 1991 degree applications due.
4 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Planning for
Graduate School. Room 109, University Center.
7:30 p.m. TELFORD LECTURE: “Futures of Socialism,” Marina

    

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

 

Chetverikova, staff researcher, U.S.S.R. Institute for U.S.
and Canada Studies in Moscow. Northen Auditorium,
University Library. Public invited.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2

LECTURE: "On Being a Foreign Correspondent in Moscow,”
John-Thor Dahlberg '75, Moscow correspondent for The
Los Angeles Times. Northen Auditgrium, University Library.
Public invited.

CONCERT: Timothy and Cattyrine Gaylard, Piano and Vocal
Works, Lee Chapel. Public invited.

CONCERT: U.S. Marine Band. Cameron Hall, V.M.1. Public
invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: MEN'S SOCCER: Hampden-Sydney.

WEDNESDAY OBER

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

4 p.m. PHYSICS/ENGINEERING SEMINAR: "Parallaxes of Faint Stars,'
Philip lanna, University of Virginia. Room 201, Parmly Hall.
Coffee at 3:30. Public invited.

4p.m. CD&P: Interviewing Workshop. Room 109, University Center.

4-8p.m. TWILIGHT RETREAT: "Peacemaking and the Just War Theory,’
Rev. Richard Mooney. St. Patrick's Church. Dinner
provided. Public invited.

4:30 p.n. GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A poetry reading by
Daniel Hoffman. Northen Auditorium, University Library.
Public invited.

6 p.m. VOLLEYBALL: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon Woman's
College, Southern Seminary. Warner Center.

8 p.m. LECTURE: "Will the Soviet Union Survive Until 1991?"

John-Thor Dahlberg '75, Moscow correspondent. Northen
Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

 

 

 

 

 

 

67
Sq. Ft.

Roll

 

Bounty
Paper Towels

79°

ua Net
Hak Spray

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, October 2, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, October 2, 1990 In Lexington Store Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 

 
