1

deli
VOLUME 90, NO. 19

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

‘ One bright spot

 

 

U

. W&L reserve forward Franklin Pridgen scores over two

defenders from Randolph-Macon College Wednesday night In
’ the Warner Center. W&L lost to R-MC 90-58. Please see the
, Story on Page 5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Broken house
windows result
in punishment

By John Foster
Staff Reporter

 

 

President of the University John
Wilson suspended two Washington
and Lee sophomores and one junior
for breaking windows in the newly-
renovated Sigma Alpha Epsilon house
and the Phi Kappa Psi house.

Keith Camp and Kevin Gorman,
sophomore members of Phi Psi, and
Chris Sullivan, an SAE junior, were
suspended for the rest of the winter
term last Friday after each met with
Wilson.

‘Renaissance really started when
we occupied the SAE house,’’ Wilson
said. ‘‘Three weeks later I’m
confronted with evidence of people
who couldn’t care less.’’

The window breaking incident
happened two Saturdays ago, Gorman
said. Camp and Sullivan did not want
to comment on the event. Gorman
said he was at a small upstairs party
at Phi Psi when a member of SAE
smashed a window with a bottle.
Gorman said he and Camp decided
to retaliate.

“IT threw a bottle through the
house mother’s window and, I don’t
know, Keith [Camp] threw a bottle
through another window,’’ Gorman
said.

Wilson said he did not hear about
the broken windows until the next
Wednesday, four days after the event.

“‘T was shocked that windows had
been broken in the SAE house,”’
Wilson said.

Wilson contacted the presidents of
Phi Psi and SAE and asked them

Prof. Parke W&L alumnus

‘hospitalized
‘in Roanoke

By Alesha Priebe
Associate Editor

 

 

Associate Professor of History J.
_ David Parker was admitted to Roa-
poke Memorial Hospital for neuro-
logical tests Wednesday morning.
+ Robert McAhren, head of the
History Department, said Parker woke
up unable to walk yesterday.
‘ According to McAhren, Parker’s
wife called the Lexington Life Saving
Crew Wednesday at about 8 a.m.
which then transported him to Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital in Lexington.

The staff at Stonewall Jackson

then sent Parker to Roanoke, which
McAhren said is not uncommon in
neurological cases.
( Parker had been experiencing
severe headaches, numbness in his
limbs and slurring of his speech in
ihe last few days.

McAhren said the symptoms seem
to indicate a stroke, although officials
at Roanoke Memorial said last night
they did not yet know the cause of
Parker’s illness and were still con-
flucting tests.

McAhren added that Parker will
temain in the hospital until Friday
and possibly through the weekend.

Parker specializes in teaching
“Latin American history. Last term, he

« accompanied several W&L students to
Costa Rica, where they made presen-
gations to an international covention,

dies in

 

 

The W&L community has had its
first loss to the Persian Gulf War.

David R. ‘‘Chip’’ Herr, Jr., class
of 1984, died Monday when the UH-
1 Huey helicopter he was flying
crashed in eastern Saudi Arabia. The
crash was not combat-related and
might have been due to mechanical
failure, military authorities said.

Herr, a geology major and an
independent from Fort Worth, Texas,
flew helicopters as a Marine Corps
captain.

“I am sad, but very proud,’’ his
mother told the Fort Worth Star-
Telegram on Monday. ‘‘After the
Marines [who brought news of their
son’s death] left the house, my hus-
band and I walked around the block,
and decided there is not one moment
that we would change of his growing
up.

‘He did everything the way we
would have wanted him to. We had
twenty-eight wonderful, wonderful
years, and frankly, if he had to die I
would have rather he died with the
Marines because he loved them so
much,”’

Herr’s parents, David and Connie
Herr, said it was at Washington and
Lee that their son first became inter-
ested in the Marines.

Gulf

His mother thinks he was
approached by a recruiter during his
freshman year. His sister, Sally,
added that he may have been thinking
about classmates who joined the
corps from Fort Worth Country Day
School.

Before his freshman year at W&L
was finished, Herr decided to join a
training program that allowed him to
concentrate on his school work during
the academic years and train during
the summers without making a com-
mitment.

At W&L, as well as in his home-
town, people who knew him readily
recall his sense of humor. Geology
Professor Samuel J. Kozak recalls
how Herr could roll with the punches
and throw a couple in himself, too.
Herr also played indoor soccer, lead-
ing the team as captain.

During his senior year, Herr de-
cided to join the Marines. While his
family and friends were initially
surprised, the decision reflected his
personal nature.

“Chip was very self-contained,”’
his mother told the Star-Telegram.
‘‘He was a person who didn’t go
with the crowd if he didn’t think it
was right. He had his own set of
values, and they were very strong.

‘In his world, there was a right
and wrong way of doing things, and
the right was the way to do it.”’

Herr’s mother said he felt fortu-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Wilson suspends students

Re Meet the Big Three candidates --- page 7

53 Ff

February 7, 1991

 

By Andrew Waters
Associate Editor

 

W&L students criticize Wilson at forum

mother, who occupied the room into which a bottle
was thrown, and the $12 million Fraternity Renaissance

Program.

 

fraternity houses.

lasted about 1 1/2 hours.

said.

 

About 400 students crowded into Lee Chapel last
night to hear University President John Wilson explain
why he superseded student government authority and
suspended three students for breaking windows at two

Keith Camp and Kevin Gorman, Phi Kappa Psi
sophomores, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon Chris Sullivan
were suspended for the remainder of the term for
breaking windows at the newly-renovated SAE house.

Phi Kappa Psi President Mike Skarda, who initially
refused to identify Camp and Gorman, invited Wilson
to address the student body in a public forum that

While many students complained about the severity
of the punishment and what they considered excessive
use of the president’s authority that could lead to an
erosion of student autonomy, Wilson insisted that the
“crude and dangerous’’ act warranted suspension.

This is the second time in eight years Wilson has
bypassed student government to discipline students, he

“‘T think it’s wrong that we weren’t informed of the
incident’ until Sunday, said Student Conduct Com-
mittee Chairman Tom Spurgeon. ‘‘I think it’s a really
broad and improper use of that power.’’

Wilson told the sometimes restless crowd that the
incident presented a threat to both SAE’s house

Despite his intervention in the matter, he said he
remains committed to student autonomy.

“I hope you will recognize that you are being
addressed by someone who has great confidence in
student government,’’ he said.

Self-government ‘‘can’t be a shield. It’s got to
function, but it didn’t function very well,’’ Wilson
said. ‘I had to intervene and I did.’’

‘‘How can you say’’ student government
working when it wasn’t given a chance?’’ asked Matt
Smith, a Phi Psi junior.

Wilson repeatedly maintained he believed that the
fraternities’ handling of the matter was inadequate, the
SCC was helpless without the identity of the students
and the IFC had no jurisdiction.

“I see that as evidence that it didn’t work,’’ he

said.

Several questions posed to the president elicited
applause from the audience, most of which appeared to
oppose the suspensions:

Why try to make a statement with Camp, Corman
and Sullivan? Why not tell the student body before
hand what’s going to happen?

Why has a student who fired a shotgun into a
fraternity house not been suspended?

Why not bring them back and try it again?

+e

wasn’t

Q) Please see FORUM page 4

 

 

who broke the windows and how
the guilty students were being pun-
ished. Both presidents said that they
had promised the students involved
that their names would not be
revealed.

Mike Skarda, president of Phi Psi,
said the two members of Phi Psi
would have to pay for the windows
and write an apology to the house
mother.

‘‘T handled things as they always
have been handled in the past,”’
Skarda said.

 

David Herr

..Persian Gulf casualty

nate to have the opportunity to be
commissioned a second lieutenant
before General Robert E. Lee’s tomb
in Lee Chapel.

“He always treasured being com-
missioned in Lee Chapel,’’ she said.
“‘That was very special to him.’’

Connie Herr said she and her
family were caught by surprise with
the heavy coverage of her son’s death
in newspapers, on TV and the radio.
The coverage is understandable, how-
ever, because his is the first in the
area, she said.

“I think people are realizing the
war is touching everyone.”’

Andrew Gaffney, SAE’s president,
said the student involved from his
fraternity was given a similar penalty.

Wilson told both presidents that
the guilty students should tur them-
selves in to the Student Conduct
Committee. By last Friday, six days
after the event, none of the students
had done so, Wilson said.

Because no action had been taken
by student government almost a week
after the incident, Wilson said he
decided to act.

‘Students were in a vacuum,”’

Wilson said. ‘‘The SCC didn’t know,
the IFC had no jurisdiction, and the
houses only fined them. I think there
was an absence of student govern-
ment in this case and I filled the
vacuum.”’

Wilson said he met with each
student individually that Friday and
informed them that they would be
suspended for the remainder of winter
term and would be reinstated in the
spring.

QO Please see WINDOWS page 4

Pro-troops rally
set for Saturday

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Virginians for Victory expect
2,500 people on hand for their sup-
port rally in the Warner Center this
Saturday at 2 p.m., according to Co-
chairman Marc Short.

The organization has invited dele-
gations from nearly 30 other colleges
from across the state. Short said that
large groups of students are expected
from the Virginia Military Institute,
James Madison University, and the
University of Virginia.

“Our goal is to spark this idea
nationwide,’’ said Short. ‘‘Students
should learn to show their support
with pride.’’

The keynote speaker at the ‘‘Sat-
urday Rally’’ will be Admiral Jerem-
iah Denton, former United States
Senator from Alabama and 7-year
POW in Vietnam. Denton, the first
POW taken by the Viet-Cong, leaked
the cruel tactics of his captors to the
U.S. by blinking the word ‘‘torture’’
in Morse code during a hostage inter-
view.

Short said Denton will probably
discuss the effect student rallies had
on the morale of troops stationed in
Vietnam.

Several other guest speakers are
also scheduled to appear: Con-
gressman Robert K. Dornan (R-CA)
from the House Armed Services

Dance the night away to benefit MDA

‘Drivin’ and Cryin’, battle of the bands head annual Superdance lineup

 

‘By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

‘Washington and Lee students are putting on
their dancing shoes as they prepare to battle
muscular dystrophy at the annual MDA
‘Superdance this weekend.

Atlanta-based rock band Drivin’ n’ Cryin’
will highlight Saturday night’s activities after
‘performances by the winner of Friday's local
Battle of the Bands, and The Phase.

Drivin’ and Cryin’ is currently touring in
support of their newest album, ‘‘Fly Me
Courageous.’’ This is the band’s fourth release.

he others are titled ‘‘Scarred but Smarter,’’
(‘Whisper Tames the Lion,’’ and ‘‘Mystery
Road,’’ which was released two years ago.
‘

t

‘*We like to work for our crowds,’’ said
band member Buren Fowler in a telephone
interview. Fowler said the band prefers to play
in smaller arenas, to more vocal crowds.

Both night’s activities will begin at 7
in the Student Pavilion.

This weekend marks the 13th year of
W&L's connection with the Muscular
Dystrophy Association (MDA). Thirteen years
ago, the Roanoke chapter of MDA asked W&L
to raise money for the fight against muscular
dystrophy.

Dance marathons were popular at the time,
so organizers decided to hold an all-weekend,
30-hour Superdance in Evans Dining Hall.

That first Superdance far exceeded the
$5,000 goal, and W&L’s association with MDA
was firmly established.

The Superdance format

has undergone

numerous changes in subsequent years. As
marathons began to fade in the early 80's, the
W&L Superdance was shortened to 15 hours.

Superdance Faculty Advisor Fontanne Bostic
has been involved with the program since its
inception at W&L. She found the new format
to be less than ideal.

‘‘It was extremely hard to motivate people
to come in on Saturday morning and dance for
15 hours when the live band wasn’t there until
that night,’’ she said.

As a result Bostic decided on the current
format of dancing seven hours Friday night and
seven hours Saturday night.

Superdance aids in the fight against
muscular dystrophy, a debilitating disease that
weakens the muscles and makes it difficult to
perform such basic tasks as eating
exercising.

and

There are several different types of mus-
cular dystrophy that strike people of all ages.

Bostic said she hopes to raise $30,000 this
year for MDA.

Eighty to ninety percent of the money raised
at Superdance will go directly to MDA, which
will use it for patient services and medical
research, she said.

Bostic said W&L’s Superdance has a
reputation for raising enormous amounts of
money for MDA.

**In 1986 only one other school raised more
money than W&L, the considerably larger
Syracuse University,’’ she said.

**T hope we can keep it up,’’ she said.

Staff reporter Andrew Keller contributed to
this story.

Committee, Dr. Ali Al-Tarrah repres-
enting the Kuwaiti embassy in Washi-
ngton, and T. Kenneth Cribb, Jr.,
W&L '70, a former advisor to Presi-
dent Reagan and currently President
of the Inter-Collegiate Studies In-
stitute. Cribb will speak about W&L
during the Vietnam era.

Virginians for Victory was found-
ed in Charlottesville two weeks ago
by Short and Co-Chairman Kate
Obenshain, a senior at UVa.

Impressed by a recent rally at
UVa, the group decided to arrange a
statewide gathering.

While Short said his supporters
here at W&L felt that Charlottesville
might be a better location for the
Saturday Rally, Obenshain felt that
another demonstration, coming so
soon on the heals of the previous
rally, would withdraw from the uni-
queness of the event.

The organization is supported by
the Young America’s Foundation, a
Virginia-based educational firm that
gives out scholarships every year.
According to Short, the foundation
was very receptive to the plans ar-
ranged by Virginians for Victory.
They provided funds necessary for
publicizing the rally.

According to group officials,
Virginians for Victory has no specific
plans for the future.

“‘Hopefully this will be a short
war,’’ said Short. ‘‘Then there will
be no need for another rally.”’

 

 

 

 

Fontaine Bostic

...Superdance faculty advisor
 

 

 

 

 

OPINION

a ieee
A call to students

for responsibility

A controversy is raging here at Washington and Lee, and
President Wilson is doing all he can to avoid being consumed. He
has been almost unanimously cast by the students in the role of
villain. Three young men are removed from our community, only
temporarily we hope, and their schoolmates are making them
martyrs.

But let’s examine the situation a little more closely. Yes, Pres.
Wilson acted imprudently in by-passing the Student Conduct
Committee when he suspended the men for the winter term. True,
he could have been more sensitive to student concerns and our
long tradition of self-government. But he did not act without
justification.

To his credit, Wilson gave the system a chance to work. When
he first heard of the bottle-throwing incident, he called meetings
with the presidents of the two fraternities involved, to see how
that first and most basic level of ‘‘student government’’ was
handling the situation. They were, in the words of one house
president, dealing with the problems ‘‘as they have always been
handled in the past.’’ Great.

That’s punishment along the old lines of ‘‘you break it, you
buy it.’’ In the old days, that attitude was tolerated, however, the
millions of dollars being invested in Fraternity Renaissance are
indeed ushering in a new era. Pres. Wilson is now forcing
Students to learn lessons of responsibility and respect that they
should have learned long ago.

Students feel Pres. Wilson may have been stepping way
beyond his jurisdiction in suspending our three schoolmates. What
Students seem not to realize is that in all these years of window
breaking and other acts of destruction, they have been stepping
beyond the boundaries of civilized behavior and plain decency.

In this case, the students pushed further beyond the civilized
norms than usual. According to Pres. Wilson’s speech last night,
one student admitted to throwing his bottle unprovoked through
the living-room window of another fraternity. The other two
students retaliated by tossing bottles back, one of which came
blasting through the window of a fraternity house mother’s living
room. According to Pres. Wilson, in Virginia, such an action can
be termed ‘‘battery,’’ a low-grade felony. At Washington and Lee,
it is at the very least ‘‘ungentlemanly.’’

After hearing the ‘‘punishment,’’ Wilson asked the fraternity
presidents to tell the guilty parties to turn themselves into the
SCC. For whatever reason, these three men did not appear before
the SCC. While we do not completely agree with the punishment
handed out to the individuals in this case, we agree with Pres.

Wilson that student government had failed everyone in this
instance.

The fact is, the student government failed. Student government
should have acted promptly to resolve the matter with due
apologies and punishments for all. Student government should
have made it unnecessary for Pres. Wilson to step in.

The attitude on this campus is such that breaking windows for
no reason and acting with utter disrespect for private property and
personal safety is acceptable behavior. It’s gone on unchecked for
years so any word to the contrary seems sacrilege to us.

That is sorry commentary about a university that prides itself
on upholding the traditional ideals of gentlemanly behavior. It is
ridiculous that a student government system allowed such
flagrantly boorish behavior to be punished by no more than a pat
on the hand. An angered and disappointed Pres. Wilson
recognized this and justifiably intervened.

The particular method by which he sought to rectify the
situation has been criticized, and rightly so. He himself admits
that certain decisions might have been made in haste and out of
anger. We in no way condone the seemingly drastic measures
imposed on the three students. But we do recognize the necessity
for Pres. Wilson to have acted to rectify a problem he saw in this
case with the student government.

— CB

— PL — AW

Quote of the week

Being angry that Hunter Thompson showed up drunk is like hiring
Jean-Paul Sartre to come to W&L and then being upset because
he spoke in French.

— Journalism Professor Brian Richardson, expressing surprise that
some members of the W&L community were unhappy about

— apparent mental and physical condition Monday
night.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

sm

la

TUT LLL Aa Ze

pei

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Courtney Hall

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

President Wilson
deserves respect

Let me start by saying that I did not neces-
sarily support President Wilson’s decisions
concerning the suspension of three students. What
I do condemn is the behavior, and general atti-
tude of disrespect during the Forum on Wednes-
day night. First, by treating President Wilson like
a fool, (which he does not deserve whether he is
right on this issue or not), the student body left
him with no graceful solution except to cling to
his initial decisions. If he were to compromise
after the rough treatment he received, he would
then be considered a fool and wimp.

Secondly, even assuming he was wrong in
his actions, do the students have the right to jeer
at him, and cut him off in the middle of his
answers? I say no. Not only do we owe him
respect as the President of this University, but
one must consider the question from a second
angle. When one is tried by the Student Affairs
Committee, or the Executive counsel, are they
treated like fools, or with a lack of respect, even
if the committee knows that the person being
tried is guiltys: a a

I know that these student organizations always
act with respect to students on trial. Do we not,
the student body at large, owe the same respect
for our President when he volunteers his time to
create such a forum? Now to my main point. We
can criticize his actions, maybe justly, but our
suggestions will fall on deaf ears if the proper
basic respect is not shown.

Sincerely,
Frank Martien 92

Let SCC handle
student conduct

It has come to our attention that a member of
the junior class and two members of the
sophmore class were recently suspended for one
term without refund by President Wilson for a
cae of student misconduct. We as officers of the
junior class and members of the Student Conduct
Committee feel that President Wilson has shown
complete disregard for our system of student
government. Perhaps he is not aware of the fact
that, as the student handbook points out, ‘‘the
SCC was created by the university faculty to
excercise its inherent power to control student

government.’’ The by-laws of the SCC go on to
state that, ‘“The SCC shall have primary, first-
instance responsibility for deciding misconduct
cases and imposing penalties...’’

We have devoted a substantial amount of our
time this year to the SCC and we feel that all
cases have been decided fairly. However, Presi-
dent Wilson’s actions indicate that he percieves
us as- incapable of handling such cases. We
believe very strongly in the tradition of student
government here at Washington and Lee and are
concerned that President Wilson's blatant disre-
spect for our current system might affect other
traditions at our school.

Sincerely,
Read Folline, Junior Class President
Chris Haley, Junior Class Vice-President

Wilson ignored
student govt.

I am writing to protest President Wilson’s
expulsion of the three students involved in the
bottle-throwing incident of several weekends ago.
Just as we should not condone those individual’s
conduct, we should not passively accept the
president’s actions. When compared with the
sentencing, or lack thereof, or more serious
offenses, this decision demonstrates an alarming
amount of inconsistency, Even more disturbing-
ly, the president has exhibited a troubling disre-
gard for the students that we elected to deal with
such matters.

Sincerely,
Allan Chisholm 91

Punishment didn’t
fit the crimes

As we all know, our university is currently
undergoing a complex Fraternity Renaissance
program. Millions have and will be spent. This
fact signifies the administration’s support of
Greek life here at Washington and Lee. It is
certainly justifiable that the Hill expects to

nAUTA

©

Lhe eal Py

 

“Ty,

 

 

LETTERS

augment its role in Fraternity life in return for
such a valuable commitment. This increased
involvement is especially valid when it involves
a desire to maintain the healthy architectural state
of the newly renovated houses. It is only justifi-
able then that they should no longer tolerate the
extensive abuse of the houses that has existed in
recent years. Nor should we the students condone

such actions amongst ourselves.
A week or so ago a few windows were

broken during a harmless conflict between mem-
bers of two neighboring fraternities. One of the

houses involved, Phi Kappa Psi, has not yet’

undergone renovation. The other, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, was the first to complete the restoration
process. With the advent of such events the
administration realized the importance of
demonstrating its virgin capabilities. Rightly so,
without stern and quick punishments for those
involved they would lose any just authority
gained. The three fraternity members involved
were suspended from school for the remainder of
the term.

I question the given punishments for two
reasons. First of all, I feel the administration has
overstepped its bounds. Although I understand

* their increased involvement coricerning the’ up-

keep of the refurbished houses, I resent the fact
that they have stomped on the numerous student-
run organizations whose job it is to provide
disciplinary actions in such matters. It seems as
if the authority of the house leadership, the
Interfraternity Council and the Student Conduct
Committee have all been destroyed. Now, hypo-
thetically speaking, let’s suppose the Hill is
somehow given consent to command such situa-
tions. This brings me to my second point. In my
opinion, any governing body should only expect
its rulings to be supported and obeyed when the
punishments fit the crimes. Breaking a window
does not warrant expulsion. I, for one, have lost
much of the respect I had for the parties in-
volved in this unreasonable punishment.

My attempts here are not to undermine the
Hill. I believe the current University officials are
doing what they see fit. Unfortunately they are
grossly mistaken. I urge them, especially Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, to rethink their most recent
actions. Hopefully, the transition of the houses
from old to new will be one that all of us can
live with.

Sincerely,
Jean-Paul Boulee '93

W&L discipline is
incomprehensible

The disciplinary process at W&L has reached
a new level of inconsistency and incomprehensi-
bility with President Wilson’s suspension of three
Washington and Lee students on Friday, February
1, 1991. Accordingly, the student body should

know that the following actions will neither cause
them to be suspended from school nor hurt their
good standing with the university:

1. Shooting a 12-gauge shotgun in a frater-
nity house.

2. Mailing drugs from Hong Kong to Lexing-
ton while living in a fraternity house.

3. Killing a fellow student while driving
under the influence and then remaining silent
about your involvement for the next six months.

4. Receiving a DUI from one of Lexington’s
finest while you are chairman of the Student
Conduct Committee,

5. Threatening the female editor of The Ring-
tum Phi with physical harm which, besides being
disgusting and ungentlemanly, is a felony.

However, if a student should happen to throw
a bottle and break a window at the fraternity
house next door, he will be immediately sus-
pended for the rest of the semester and urged by
President Wilson to discover the fine art of
bagging groceries.

Sincerely,
Larkin Fowler '91
Robert Shelton '91

Spectator wrong
on diversity issue

Having just gotten the opportunity to peruse
the latest issue of the Spectator, | happened to
read an article by Mike Skarda entitled ‘‘The
Community We Once Had.’’ Seeing as the
magazine itself has no forum for responding to
articles appearing within the magazine — I guess
they don’t like to be challenged — it appears this
letter is the only way of challenging the rhetoric

present in the aforementioned article.

Mr. Skarda states that many of the students at
Washington and Lee are being admitted just
because of their diversity. Considering the last
entering class had the highest average SAT
scores in the history of the school, certainly
higher than when Mr. Skarda was admitted, there
is absolutely no basis in fact for this self-serving
and utterly false statement. I had always thought
it was good journalistic practice to back up wild
theories with some actual basis. !

The next part of the article goes on to state
that the diversity that is becoming more prevalent
at W&L ‘‘hinders campus traditions that call for
commonality among student livelihoods.” I have
no idea what traditions those might be, but the
statement itself is ludicrous. What Mr. Skarda is
seeking is a school completely full of what I’m
sure he is: rich, conservative, Southern preppies
who live to drink beer at fraternity houses. A
question for him: Why does that type of student
deserve to attend the school more than anyone
else?

The ‘‘article’’ also referred ad nauseam to
traditions at this school and how they should be
upheld. Sure, traditions are nice and the Honor,
System is certainly an integral part of the school.
The traditions can also be carried too far, as in
the article in question. As long as we’re being so
traditional, why not carry it a step farther? The
school should stop admitting women again and
that dress code thing sure sounds like fun to me.
And hell, who needs these modern conveniences
like computers and that ghastly arts building, the
Lenfest Center? If people want tradition, the
school should do it all the way.

After reading Mr. Skarda’s article, it became:
all the more obvious to me why so many fresh-,
men I’ve talked to, including myself, are consid-
ering transferring. If the people in the school all’
have this same idea that if everyone is not,
exactly alike, they shouldn’t be here, they may
get exactly that. }
Sincerely,

Eddie Smallwood '94

Ogden clarifies
proposed revisions

I am writing this as a clarification and expla-"
nation to last week’s article concerning a pro-
posed White Book revision. The article correctly
stated that I suggested the deletion of the phrase“
“lie, cheat, or steal’’ from the introductory;
philosophy section (p.1). That change, however,
was merely for syntax and to avoid redundancy’
in the White Book, and the article misses the gist,
of the proposal.

The main point of the proposal was to move!
the phrase, ‘‘The system applies to any conduct,
considered dishonorable by the student generation
involved,’ from the introductory section on!

enforcement.{p.2) to the .philosephy section (p.1), | .

where I thought it properly belonged. The phrase,
‘lying, cheating, and stealing are clear examples?
of breaches of the Honor System,’’ would remain
in the enforcement section as it now stands. It
was my opinion that this move would serve as#
the clarification that the White Book Revisions
Committee sought without adding a word to the
White Book’s concept of honor. ‘

Unfortunately, several members of the E.C. i
felt that the proposal, despite the fact that it
added nothing to the phrasing of the White *
Book, would expand the realm of the Honor ,
System beyond manageability.

I firmly believe in the Honor System as based
on the conception of honor of the ‘‘student
generation involved.’’ A limitation of that system
to the three big ‘‘evils’’ undercuts the idea of
honor and reduces the system to a set of three
rules with a very severe sanction. The Honor
System becomes a Code of Convenience. | am
not suggesting any expansion of the Honor
System to deal with every minor infraction of the °
rules, That is ridiculous. But I do feel that the
Honor System, as our heritage from Lee and
previous student generations, should be rooted in ‘
an honor that is broader than lying, cheating and
stealing.

If we are unwilling to accept a broader
concept of honor, then let’s stop lying to our-
selves. Continuing with the phrase, ‘‘conduct ,
considered dishonorable by the student generation
involved,’’ is hypocritical, and the phrase should
be removed. It is however, in my opinion, pre-
cisely that phrase that gives the Honor System |
life and makes it ours.

Sincerely,
W. Kirk Ogden, Jr. '93
Sophomore EC Rep. '

~

~~

 

 

 

 

eg

 

 

 

ep @& *©®on & cf

= 4&7

-_ _

ei.

aM
“NEWS |

 

 

 

 

:
'

demux Meee LO

 

 

 

+

‘Car tax issue

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

Student and city leaders Tuesday
failed to agree on whether or by what
dpethod students should be charged
personal property tax on cars.

* Student leaders say the failure to
formulate a compromise leaves two
‘possibilities open — making a

‘formal proposal to Lexington City
Council or reinstating the postponed

Boycott of city businesses.
« Tuesday’s meeting, the second
informal discussion between students

‘nd city officials on the car tax issue,

included student leaders, the mayor,
members of the City Council, and a
tepresentative of the Lexington
Chamber of Commerce.

Council
to study
colony
withdrawl

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

 

'

Washington and Lee’s Panhel-
lenic Council will be investigating the
cause of Delta Gamma _ sorority’s
Second failed attempt at colonization
here.

Panhellic Publicity and Extension
Chairman Sonja Tillberg will be
heading what she called ‘‘an evalua-
tion of why DG’s colonization at-
sempt was unsuccessful.’’

The evaluation will begin some
lime next week. Tillberg was unsure
how it would be conducted.

Last week Panhellenic President

Dale Wyatt said women who did not
pledge a sorority will be asked to fill
out a Rush survey. ‘‘We also need to
know what the DG nationals are
feeling. There are several problems to
deal with.’’
» Wyatt said she doesn’t feel Pan-
hellenic did anything wrong. She also
said last week the Panhellenic Coun-
cil must consider other sororities
before next year’s Sorority Winter
Rush in January, and ‘‘it’s going to
be very hard.’’

Tillberg said although the Panhel-
fenic Council regrets DG’s failure
here, it is committed to the idea of
inviting other groups onto campus.
‘She said, ‘‘We must realize whatever
happened with DG can’t happen
again.

* “We have proven for the last two
Rushes there is an _ interest in
sororities.”’

‘ With the addition of 34-member
pledge classes, W&L sororities will
each have more than 100 members.
Tillberg said ideal sorority chapter
gize was estimated at 75 members.

‘‘We need to evaluate where we
Stand now and why, as well as what
pur needs are,’’ she said.

While the Panhellenic Council is
tesearching the DG failure, some
minority students are hoping tradi
tionally minority Greek organizations
‘nay be invited to colonize at W&L.

by J.R. Smith

 

 

 

Rich Scherer, ’93, Tampa, FL
— ‘‘I think his actions were a
4 little extreme considering what
else has happened on campus this
yeal

 

aS

The first meeting two weeks ago
caused the cancellation of the
scheduled boycott.

According to sophomore EC Rep.
Kirk Ogden, who attended the
meeting, city officials offered to
‘‘pro-rate’’ the tax and only bill 75
percent of the assessed tax value of
the car since students are only in
Lexington three-fourths of the year.
In return, the city would ask W&L to
cooperate with the city and provide a
list of student cars.

‘The opposition to that from the
student leaders was very high,’’ said
Ogden.

Michael IFC

Skarda, vice

president and co-author of the boycott
resolution, said the student delegation
asked the city to establish a fee that
the students could pay in lieu of the

 

Sonya Tillberg
...Extension Chair

Minority sorority advocates have
been in contact with deans and mem-
bers of the W&L administration for
almost a year concerning the matter,
although no plans or promises to
bring on such organizations have
been made.

Some minority women are par-
ticularly interested in the historically
black sorority Delta Sigma Theta.

In a recent letter junior Karen
Pope denied that the issue of
minority sororities is a ‘‘black versus
white issue.’’ Rather, she said it is
something to fill a void minority
sorority advocates feel is present on
the W&L campus.

Pope discussed one reason why
some blacks do not want to be in-
tegrated with the already established
Greek system at W&L.

‘‘The black females who are inter-
ested in Delta Sigma Theta are being
asked why we will not give up a part
of our tradition and compromise
ourselves by becoming part of the
already established system and accept
their heritage and tradition.’’

Pope added in her letter that just
as blacks are free to choose Kappa
Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa Gamma,
or Chi Omega, whites would be free
to choose Delta Sigma Theta.

Tillberg said the issue has not
been formally addressed to the Pan-
hellenic Council.

Interviews and photos

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

car tax.

Skarda said city officials were not
willing to consider any proposal that
did not include the city getting a list
of student cars registered with the
university.

Mayor H.E. Derrick said the
student proposal was ‘‘legally and
practically not a viable option.”’

Derrick has written a letter to The
Ring-tum Phi explaining the city’s
position and hopes ‘‘students will
receive it in the spirit in which I sent
it — a spirit of goodwill and an effort
to communicate to the students.’’

Both Ogden and EC President
Tom Hatcher said they plan to seek
more student opinion on the topic and
will try to formulate a proposal to

take to the City Council’s March 7
meeting.

 

t

still unresolved

Skarda, however thinks students
“need to be a little more active than
that’’ and says ‘‘it’s time to boycott.

“Tt’s time to take our Fancy
Dress business to Roanoke. Buena
Vista has places where you can get
tuxedo rentals,’’ said Skarda.

Skarda said he is willing to do
the work to organize a boycott, but
that he would want the support of the
student body and the approval of the
EC first.

Hatcher is not sure it is time to
resort to the boycott tactic.

“IT would not want to boycott
without an awful lot of input from an
awful lot of people,’’ said Hatcher.
**My gut feeling is that it would hurt
people that really don’t have much
say’’ in whether or not the city
collects the tax.

‘Lean on Me’
subject to speak

 

From W&L News Office

 

Former Eastside, N.J., high school
principal and educator Joe Clark will
speak in Washington and Lee
University’s Lee Chapel, Monday,
Feb. 11 at 8 p.m. The speech,
sponsored by Contact and the
Minority Student Association, is free
and open to the public. Contact is a
student sponsored and financed
organization that brings noted
speakers to the W&L campus.

Clark made headlines in 1982 by
instituting drastic reforms in his first
year at Eastside High. A former
Army drill instructor, Clark met the
lines of students at the door with a
bullhorn in one hand and a Louisville
slugger in the other. He later chained
doors to keep out drug dealers,
forbade hats and other gang clothing,
and gave tardy students latrine duty.
On a single day, he threw out 300
students for fighting, vandalism, drug
possession, profanity, and abusing
teachers.

After only two years of Clark’s
leadership, the formerly raucus

Eastside High was declared a model
school by the governor of New
Jersey and he was named one of the
nation’s 10 ‘‘Principals of
Leadership.’’ He was subsequently
the subject of a Time magazine cover
story and a ‘‘60 Minutes’ profile,
and made appearance on ‘‘Nightline’’
and ‘‘Donahue.’’ His achievements
were the subject of a Warner
Brothers film, Lean on Me, starring
two-tme Oscar nominee Morgan
Freeman as Clark. ‘‘Tough leaders
have an important place in the
nation’s schools. Sometimes you need
Mr. Chips, sometimes you need Dirty
Harry,’’ said William Bennett, Ronald
Reagan’s Secretary of Education, of
Clark.

Through his recent book, Laying
Down the Law, and through his
speeches, Clark shares his beliefs,
Strategies, and success stories with
teachers, school boards, parents,
businesspeople, and students around
the country. His message, told in
tough terms, is one of pride in self.
He believes that ‘‘every day, pride in
self must be reinforced. Every day
the value of academics must be
demonstrated.”’

Hicks elected
IFC president

 

By Kimberly Boots
Staff Reporter

 

The Interfraternity Council elected
new officers Tuesday night who
will officially take office April 23,
the first week of spring term.

Greg Hicks, Pi Kappa Phi, will
preside over the IFC. He ran unop-
posed. Others elected are: Rob Ram-
bo, Beta Theta Pi, vice president;
Nick Phillips, Kappa Alpha, secretary;
Tom Snedeker, Phi Kappa Sigma,
treasurer; Hill Goodspeed, Phi Kappa
Psi, senior justice; Jim Eddings, Phi
Delta Theta and Sam Rock, Kappa

Sigma, junior justices. None of the
current officers ran for reelection.

Many of the candidates stressed
their support of continued Fall Rush
and said the IFC should not allow the
administration to ‘‘overstep its boun-
daries,’’ as Rambo pointed out it has
done in the past.

Phillips said that he wants to
‘‘make sure the IFC remains an im-
portant power at W&L,”’ a sentiment
which other candidates echoed,

The new officers will attend the
Southeastem IFC Conference in At-
lanta during the first weekend of
Washington holiday. They will meet
with IFC officers from universities in
the Southeast.

 

TALKBACK

 

 

GENERAL NOTES 2

Watch a flick Classical DJs

The W&L Film Society will show
Drugstore Cowboy (U.S., 1989)
on Fri., Feb. 8 and Sat., Feb. 9 at
8 p.m. in Lewis Hall’s Classroom
A. The show follows in the tradi-
tion of great American outlaw-
road pictures.

Study law

A Marine Corps representative
will talk about law opportunities
in the corps on Wed., March 6 at
4 p.m. in the University Center.
See the Career Development and
Placement Office for details.

Get a job

Meet W&L alumni in Atlanta on
Feb. 19 and in D.C. on Feb. 21
with Career Connections. Pre-
tegistration at the Career Develop-
ment and Placement Office is
required. ro = WC. pre;
registration is especially impor-
tant because of security.

Explore the sea

A trip to the Everglades National
Park and the National Seashore is
planned for the Washington
Holiday. For info, call Tim Clark,
464-3780.

Get outdoors

The Outing Club will hike the
Appalachian Trail on Sat., Feb. 9
from 10 am. - 6 p.m. Meet at
Baker 109. See the club’s bul-
letin board for details.

Fly-casting practice for all skill
levels are Thursdays, 4 p.m. at
the Liberty Hall ruins. The club
also offers kayaking and canoeing
instruction as well as mountain
bike and road rides.

Save the land

The next environmental section
meeting is on Tues., Feb. 12 at
5:30 p.m. at University Center
Li.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what

you're up to? Leave a note in the
General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office.

WLUR’s Classical Music Depart-
ment is looking for a DJ to fill
its 9:30-11:30 am. Wednesday
shift. No experience, only an
interest in classical music, is
required. Call Josh at 463-2397
or leave a message with Mrs. Cox
at 463-8432.

Join Kathekon

Kathekon is accepting applica-
tions for membership. See Carol
Calkins in the University Center
beginning February 7.

Oxford Summer

The Virginia Program at Ox-
ford is accepting applications for
a six-week summer course on
Tudor-Stuart History and Litera-
ture. For more information con-
tact Pamela Simpson, in the Art
Department, 463-8861. Applica-
tion deadline is March 1.

Battle bands

William and Mary’s Class of ’92
is sponsoring their Second Annual
Battle of the Bands to take place
in April with more than $2,000
worth of prizes going to the vic-
tors. The deadline for entry is at
the end of this month. For details
contact Melissa Cales, College
Station Box 2467, College of
William and Mary, Williamsburg,
VA, 23186.

Reporters

Interested in writing for The Ring-
tum Phi? We're looking for
responsible news reporters and
writers with a creative bent to
work on our features page. Call
Cathy 464-4553.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will meet
Feb. 11, 8 p.m. in The Ring-tum
Phi office.

Reporters

Interested in writing for The Ring-
tum Phi? We're looking for
responsible news reporters and
writers with a creative bent to
work on our features page. Call
Cathy 464-4553.

 

 

What do you think of Pres. Wilson’s
decision to suspend three students?

 

 

Jennifer Gladwell, ’93,
Pittsburgh, PA = ‘‘Aren’t there
better reasons to suspend
students?”’

 

 

 

Craig Hatfield, °91, Falston,
MD — ‘‘All I know is that he
comes to basketball games so he
is alright in my book.”’

 

 

 

Giles Perkins, ’92, Lufkin, TX
— ‘His actions were an insult to
student government. And I hope
that he can give us a better ex-
planation of why his behavior is
justified.’’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clayton Kennington, ’92, Dallas,

TX — ‘‘It's unfortunate that he
has over stepped the defined
channels in student government
and made a decision on_ his

own.’”’

Mason Pettit, 92, New York,
NY — ‘‘It’s kind of weak.’’

 

 

 
 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

Trustees Fear and loathing in Warner Center

to plan
campaign

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee's Board of
Trustees will meet this weekend to
discuss the first steps of a major
endowment campaign by 1992.

“The Board will take a very
careful look at the beginning steps of
our fundraising campaign,’’ said
Secretary of the Board of Trustees
Ferris Hotchkiss. ‘‘This campaign is
essentially to increase W&L’s endow-
ment to subsidize scholarships and
faculty salaries.”’

According to Hotchkiss, Washing-
ton and Lee completed its last en-
dowment campaign in 1981. The
eleven-year progiam raised money for
physical improvements on campus,
and resulted in the construction of the
Warner Center, the Law School, and
ihe University Library.

Currently, the University’s endow-
ment hovers around $150 million.
Endowment size is an important
factor when comparing colleges and
universities throughout the nation.

“‘The unusual place we find our-
selves is with W&L’s endowment
size far less than other schools with
comparable reputations,’’ said Hotch-
kiss.

Hotchkiss explained that the Trus-
tees will analyze both the amount the
school needs and how much it can
get. The Secretary estimated that the
Board would seek approximately $100
million.

In other business, the Trustees
will induct one new member into the
existing Board, and secure nomina-
tions for two other vacancies. John
Mullin will be sworn in this weekend
and the two remaining positions will
be filled at the Board’s Spring meet-
ing.

Included in this session will be
the 1991-1992 preliminary budget
discussions. The Trustees will deter-
mine adjustments in tuition, room
rates, and Dining Hall charges.

 

 

 

By Brian Root
Editor

 

Chivas Regal can really mess you up.

In journalism, one is taught to lead every news
story with the ‘‘most important item.”’

In this case, accuracy demands that Chivas
Regal, and its effects on the human mind, take a
prominent place in any account of Hunter S.
Thompson’s Contact lecture Monday night in
the Warner Center.

‘The feedback I’ve gotten has been very
mixed,’’ said Contact Chairman Charles Kranich.
“‘T think it went well. It was among the most

successful lectures we've had in terms of atten
dence.”’
Thompson, who has_ enjoyed considerable

success as both a writer and lecturer for more than
two decades, addressed a number of subjects, rang-
ing from the Persian Gulf war to his recent legal
troubles, in his two-hour speech.

By the time Thompson arrived for his speech,
the available seats had long since filled, and peo
ple were sitting in the upper level of the gym.

The overflow crowd had a considerable amount
of time to get comfortable, as Thompson did not
arrive until 8:45. Posters advertising the speech
said Thompson would begin to speak ‘‘around 8.”’

The first of his many topics was the Persian
Gulf war. Periodically, he would refill his glass
from a bottle of Chivas Regal under the podium.

“I’m not sure I understand why we’re over
there,’’ he said. ‘‘Public perception of this thing

would change if there were a draft. Is anybody
here for the draft?

“T have the whole war on tape at home,’’ he
said. ‘‘I took George at his word when he said the
war wasn’t going to last long, so I plan to watch
it when I get home.”’

Thompson questioned the wisdom of becoming
militarily involved in the Middle East. ‘‘There are
easier ways to go through life than to get bogged
down in a Muslim war,’’ he said. ‘‘The emir of
Kuwait is one of the worst swine in the world.’’

Thompson said he doesn’t want to cover the
war.

‘I have no intention of spending the next six
months in a tent in Saudi Arabia, without beer,"’
he said.

Thompson also discussed what he considers to
be the overly-zealous attitude of the U.S. Secret
Service.

“‘The Secret Service and I have learned to get
along,’’ he said. ‘‘I was told that if I went to
Washington [to cover the Iran-Contra hearings], my
life would become a series of unfortunate acci-
dents.”’

Thompson said his writing style, which often
includes exaggeration, is misunderstood.

‘A lot of people don’t get it when I say that
George Bush was seen in the streets of Washington
sucking the life out of a dying cat.’’

Thompson was asked if the Democratic Party
would be able to field any viable Presidential
candidates in 1992.

“‘Gary Hart was the closest thing we had to a
President-in-waiting,’’ he said. ‘‘He was 16 points

ahead until the day he tripped over his [male
reproductive organ] and lost.’’

In response to another question, Thompson said
the war on Drugs was a ‘“‘total failure,’’ and that
he favors the legalization of marijuana.

**To get genuinely, crazily stoned is a pleasure,
but of course I don’t advocate it to you,’’ he said.

‘We've pretty well suspended our constitu-
tional rights to fight a losing battle,’’ he said.

Thompson ended his speech by recounting his
recent legal battles and announcing that he is part
of a ‘‘Fourth Amendment Committee.’’ Last year,
Thompson escaped several felony indictments be-
cause police had illegally searched his home.

‘“‘There is no excuse to make us give up your
rights,’’ he said. ‘‘Freedom is all you're willing to
fight for.’’

‘‘This kind of thing happens all the time,’’ he
said. ‘‘But most people can’t afford to fight it.
Now, we've made it possible to beat them in court.
You can beat city hall, and it’s fun.”’

Kranich said Thompson was ‘‘the most unusual
speaker we've had to deal with.’’

Thompson, while waiting for Kranich to take
him to his hotel, took Kranich’s car for a ride
around Lexington. :

**When [Contact Co-Chair] John Stump and I
came out of the University Center, both he and my
car were gone. We jumped into Stump’s car and
took off after him,’’ Kranich said.

According to Kranich, Thompson phoned him
at 1 a.m. with instructions to bring him some food.

“‘T had to drive out to Lee-Hi and buy him a
bunch of hamburgers,’’ said Kranich.

 

WINDOWS

from page 1

 

Wilson said he thought suspension
was warranted because the Fraternity
Renaissance Program had been placed
in jeopardy. It is hard to ask alumni
for money to support the program
when students damage the newly-
renovated houses, Wilson said.

‘‘T was worried about the viability
of the Renaissance program, including
the hiring of house mothers,’’ he
said.

Gorman said he told Wilson he
thought the penalty was too harsh
when they met.

‘*(Wilson) said I was a hoodlum
and I was bringing the Bronx to
W&L,’’ Gorman said. Gorman said
Wilson told him ‘‘maybe when
you’re bagging groceries back home

eM old

SWITCH TO OUR

you'll understand what you did.”’

Wilson did not remember calling
any of the students hoodlums and
said they were definitely not
hoodlums. He said he did make the
Bronx remark, but he meant the three
students had brought an atmosphere
of fear to W&L by breaking a house
mother’s window. Wilson said the
grocery remark might have been his
angry response to one of the students
asking what they should do for the
next eight weeks. Wilson said he did
not mean to insult the students.

Most administrators and faculty
supported Wilson’s decision to
suspend the students.

Dean of Students David Howison
said he recommended suspending the

 

LOW PRICES IN ‘91

Holly Farms Or Perdue
ole Fryer

wa Grade
‘4 “A”

ee

(4
?
he

6 O th
AEE) hie
mes : ‘ Gf

i
\)
;

if

is

students to Wilson.

‘“‘Given the circumstances of this
incident, the throwing of a bottle
through the window of a house moth-
er during the first stages of the Re-
naissance, (there was) a threat to the
(Washington and Lee) community,”’
Howison said.

At Monday’s faculty meeting
Professor of Religion Harlan Beckley
“made a motion to support the

president in his action of suspending’

three students which was seconded
and approved by voice vote by a
large majority,’ according to the
minutes of the meeting taken by
University Registrar and Secretary of
the Faculty D. Scott Dittman.
Professor of English Sidney

Coulling said he and most other
faculty members were behind the
president.

‘I support the president and the
overwhelming majority of the faculty
support him,’’ Coulling said.

Wilson emphasized that he did not
want to take student government out
of the students’ hands.

“Student government, to work,
must find discipline and will-power to
punish students,’’ Wilson said. ‘‘Stu-
dent government wasn’t working in
this case.”’

Howison said there should be no
problem with the three students re-
turning to school for spring term.

‘‘T’ve encouraged them to do so,”’
Howison said.

 

FORUM

from page 1 '

Dean of Students David Howison,'
who accompanied Wilson to the,
stage, said the purpose of the suspen-
sion was not primarily to set an ex#
ample but was appropriate ‘‘given the
circumstances.

“This really has to do with chan,
ge,’ Howison said, echoing Wilson’s
reference to a ‘‘new era’’ brought
about by the Fraternity Renovation. ,

Wilson said the case of Peer Sod-
erberg, a Sigma Phi Epsilon junior
who was placed on probation for,
firing a shotgun into his fraternity
house, was handled promptly bys
student government and was not
analogous to the recent incident.

Wilson admitted he ‘‘may have,
made some mistakes in my handling
of this matter,’’ but said he would
not respond to questions about the
reversal of the decision. ;

Most applause was in support
student criticism, often bordering on
ridicule, of Wilson’s action. But
junior Frank Martien received ap-,
plause for his criticism of students’
sometimes harsh and curt questions.
“I don’t think we’re showing’’ Wil-
son ‘‘the respect he deserves as presi-'
dent,’’ he said. ,

Senior Mason Pope at one point
said he would have trouble recom’
mending W&L to prospective stu-,
dents when he has ‘‘Mom and Dad
on the Hill telling me I can’t break‘
anything in my own home. We don’t,
have any say in what we do.”’

Though the comment drew re-
served applause, EC President and
moderator Tom Hatcher broke in for
the only time during the forum. ,

“I think we’re missing the poi-
nt,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s a new day. We're’
going to have to play a different,
game. We’re going to have to go to
the SCC and we’ll have to go to
Mom and Dad because it’s Mom and
Dad that let us renovate the houses.”’

Wilson pointed out that the eight-'
week suspension was the minimum,
length of time he could have imposed
and that the students have the right to!
request admission for spring term.

‘‘T haven’t the slightest doubt that
they are good and decent young men
and that they will return here in eight
weeks to vindicate themselves many
times over.’’ 4

 

. Hanover Cut
Green Beans

IF

 

 

 

Coca-Cola, |
Sprite |

 

 

 

   

 

Valentine Specials For,
Your Sweethea

|

 

——

bg
Kt
i BUTTERFLY

[et a
MAPA varied
--*

Wie LMF ADE,

 
 

  

\
i

  
  

|

RIDGE
, ‘

 
   

 

 

  

   
   

Available 4) ;
a nis ice
Fl erv
Dozen Sires oniy Butterfly e

White Zinfandel

 

 

 

 

  

49

Available Only

   

750 ML

 

Hershey's

s ed & Silver
Kisses 14 Oz.

 

 

 

 

 

Boxed Roses
Prices Good Through Tuesday, February 12, 1991

«} 2/14/91. Sell Wine And Beer
Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, February 12, 1991 In Lexington Store Only,

Floral Prices
Valentine Garden
2 39 Bouquet ......... ca. 4.99
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fal
 

 

 

 

*

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

Yellow Jackets sting Generals 90-58

 

F

By Jay Plotkin
‘Sports Editor

‘

 

, ‘No one played well. We didn’t
do anything right,’’ said Washington
tand Lee head coach Verne Canfield
alter Randolph-Macon routed W&L
90-58 Wednesday night in and Old
Dominion Athletic Conference game
in the Warner Center.

* “But you have to give Randolph-
Macon credit. They stuck it to us,”’
Canfield said.

“  W&L led 2-0 on a basket by
senior guard Jim Casey, but from
then on, it was all R-MC. David
Kagey scored 15 points as R-MC
jumped out to a 25-10 lead.

" R-MC led by as many as 21
points, 44-23 with 51 seconds left, in
the first half as Kagey scored 17 of
his 21 points in the first 20 minutes.
, W&L cut the lead to 44-29 on
consecutive three pointers by senior
Pat Gallavan, but R-MC then jumped
out to an 81-47 lead with 5:00 left
‘on a dunk by Pat Holland, who fin-
shed with a game-high 24 points.

W&L shot just 33.8 percent for
the game, their second lowest per-
centage of the season. W&L shot just
32.9 percent when the two teams met
in Ashland, Va. earlier this season.

R-MC shot 50.9 percent for the
‘game and converted 30 of 40 free
throws. W&L went to the free throw
line just five times, making four.

Gallavan and senior Craig Hatfield
led W&L with 10 points each. The
32-point loss was the worst home
Joss since 1975, when Virginia beat
\W&L 101-57.

‘“‘We simply got whipped,”’ said
Canfield. ‘‘They totally kicked our
butts, and we had no excuses.”’
"The loss was W&L’s second

Ne“ Smith Machine
Hack Squat/Leg Press
Calf Machine

9,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.0.0.¢ 0 0.0.0, 0.0.0.0-0.0-0°0.0.0-0.0.0_0-0_0-0.0-0.0/0 0-0-1
eeececesestetetetsbeteecereseratnteretecaseratereretererererers
oretreteoteetere a "e's ea a*ee'a era ete ere eres cre ee ete ete eee ee

enone cesesesecesesesereeseresecererecetetetatete’

We have a FULL weight room
at the Lexington Fitness Center

straight. On Monday, W&L erased a
12-point halftime deficit before falling
86-83 in overtime to Averett.

W&L trailed 40-28 at halftime,
but came back to lead 57-56 on a
three pointer by senior Mike Holton.
Averett led 74-72 in the final minute,
but Holton hit a jumper and was
fouled with 15 seconds left. His free
throw gave W&L a 75-74 lead.

Averett’s James Braxton tied the
game by making one of two foul
shots with seven seconds left, and a
shot to win the game by Casey
wouldn’t fall, and the teams went to
overtime,

Now we play a team
that took Macon to
the buzzer before
losing. Good teams
take a loss like the
one we had and
learn from it.

— Verne Canfield

Averett jumped out to a five-point
lead in overtime, but W&L tied the
game at 80 on basket by Hatfield and
a three pointer by Holton, his sixth
of the game, but Averett went back
out to an 86-83 lead when Kevin
Sims converted one of two free
throws with six seconds left.

W&L had one shot to tie, but a
three-pointer by Casey rattled out as

time expired. Holton led W&L with
a season-high 23 points, and Hatfield
continued to play well, scoring 17
points before fouling out in overtime.
Senior forward Ed Hart scored 14
points, Casey finished with 13 points,
and junior center John Witherington

 

 

nsec eseseseserecesecesecesececes

    

oS

 

ud
"ere"
"eae"

 

erezereres

mores,

Po

SESSESS

 
 
  
    

tetera

 

Today's Need For

   

    

 

    
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

j Tomorrow's Growth
(703) 463-1620

‘ 11 E. Nelson Street
4 Lexington, VA 24450
{ge SSR OU Gene GATE UN ae GS Ge EP ee ee ee I Ce RS RE RA Ee Ee
i
\
Stud
1 en ¢
4

ee “ ee +6

 

Ski Massanutten after 12:30 p.m. on Monday and Friday and
you'll receive some money-saving financial assistance. Show
us your valid college ID —full or part time — and purchase your
lift ticket for just $12 and rent your equipment for $10,

Bring us this ad and we'll aid you even more with an
additional $2 off your lift ticket.

So find some friends, tear out this ad and come to
Massanutten on Monday or Friday. You'll enjoy the best twi-
light skiing value in the area when you ski our two new slopes
and ride our new ‘‘Quad" chairlift for just $10.

AY MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

Valid 1991 Ski Season only. May not be used with other discounts. Not available on holidays

Ww

set es ek A Ol

added 10.

W&L started the week with a win
Saturday over Virginia Wesleyan in
Va. Beach. W&L led 40-27 at half-
time and scored the first seven points
of the second half while forcing the
Marlins into tumovers on their first
seven possessions to put the game
away.

Hatfield, the ODAC Player of the
Week, scored 19 points for the
second straight game (1/29 vs. Emory
and Henry), and Hart added 16 points
as the Generals beat the Marlins for
the second time this season, 81-51.

W&L forced VWC into 23 tur-
novers while committing only seven.
Every W&L player either scored or
grabbed a rebound in the 30-point
win, the largest for W&L since 1988-
89.

After the loss to R-MC, the No.
10 team in Division I, W&L (10-
12, 6-8) will have to regroup and
take on a Roanoke team that is 3-9
in ODAC play, but took R-MC to the
final seven seconds before losing.

“Now we have to get ready to
play a team Saturday that
Macon to the buzzer before losing,’’
said Canfield. ‘‘Good teams take a
loss like the one we had Wednesday
and learn from it.’’

W&L will play Roanoke in Salem
at 7:30 on Saturday night. The Gen-
erals will finish the regular season
next week with home games against
Eastern Mennonite and Guilford.

Wins this weekend would give the
Generals a fourth place finish in the
ODAC. A fourth place finish would
give W&L a home game in the first
round of the ODAC Tournament, to
be played Feb. 19.

All games will be carried live on
WLUR-FM (91.5) starting at 7 p.m.

  

 
  
  
    

  

 

    
  
 

Patel ry |
Lyric
OF Le Z ‘
ner Oe hey 0
a Aa No, 10-50 % Off Earn up to $1000 in one Loft Apartments
ALA 9 week for your campus
™ Selected Items organization.
: Framed prints, clothing, Plus a chance at
A Special Place belts, sweaters, jew- ——_ more! S ;
This program works! pacious new
6 E. Nelson St. elry, rugs, pottery, etc., N MS — — A :
Phone # 464-4080 etc., etc. 0 investment needed. 2-bedroom units
VIITT SEET Eee Ter ~ ai for Fall of 1991
tian (y, For information

$5

 

Che
Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CWD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mail
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

took -

         
       
   
     
     
   
   
    

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Prey be ga pia
Quality Quick Print, Ink.

for all student printing needs

~ Résumés, Invitations, Flyers,
Programs, Posters, Fax, ... ~

214 South Main Street * (703) 463-9232

LEXINGTON’S ©
NLY 8¢ COPY

 

 

 

sii

Junior Franklin Pridgen works inside against Randolph-Macon’s Pat Holland for two of his career-

high six points In Wednesday's game against the Yellow Jackets. Pridgen and the Generals lost to
R-MC 90-58. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

tym ei i

 

 

 

 

 

 

Call: 463-7563

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rollerblades
Are In!

 

 

 

Love in letters.
Caresses in cards.
Saying amore
isn’t very hard.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

Over 75 cards and
sentiments to express
your affections

' ' j i has th
on Valentine's Day. snwereny mparruder Sat f6

best selection of W&L im-
printed T-Shirts, sweatshirts,
‘embroidered fitted baseball
caps and much more. Come
see our new W&L Flannel
Boxers!

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

$10 Balloon Bouquets.
(Free downtown and campus delivery)

   
  
  
  
   
    

OFF ANY
SERVICE WITH
THIS AD

POSEMARKS
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 6am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

15 W. Washington St
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

S

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
  
  
  

Valentine’s Day
at

The College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.
Stop In and See:

- Batik Valentine Boxer Shorts
- Valentine Ties

Don't Forget Your Best Friends
or Loved Ones
Rent For Fancy Dress Early

Pye he.
 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

Same old
faces lead
wrestlers

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

The beat goes on for the Wash-
ington and Lee wrestling team, as the
two top performers placed again at
the Mid-South Invitational.

Junior Peer Soderberg won sec-
ond place with two wins in his 177-
pound weight class as W&L finished
ninth this past weekend in the ten
team toumiament.

Soderberg, who has accounted for
more than 36 of the 89 team points
this season, improved his record to
13-8.

‘‘Peer had a good tournament and
an exciting match in the finals, said
head coach Gary Franke. ‘‘To place
in that tournament you really have to
wrestle well.’’

Senior Larry Pilkey also finished
the tournament with two wins, which
included ten takedowns and six es-
capes. With a 10-10 record, Pilkey
leads the team with 32 takedowns.

The tournament, perhaps the
toughest for the Generals this season,
featured a skeleton of W&L’s squad.
Only five wrestlers were healthy
enough to compete.

Among the missing were soph-
omores Rich Paini and Doug Lamb,
at 118 and 134 pounds, respectively.
Lamb will miss the remainder of the
season with a shoulder injury.

The Generals will host the Vir-
ginia Intercollegiate Championships
this weekend at the Warner Center.
Following the VIC tournament, where
W&L will meet Gallaudet, Longwood

*. and the Apprentice School, Soderberg

and Pilkey will head to the Eastern
Regionals.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Perfect form

Senior Pat Gallavan makes a three pointer at the halftime buzzer in Wednesday's game against
Randolph-Macon. Gallavan led the team with 10 points, but the Yellow Jackets beat the Generals
90-58. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

The Washington and Lee
indoor track teams got strong
performances in meets where suc-
cess from Division II participants
was limited.

For the men, junior David
Martin became the first W&L
runner to win an event in the VMI
Winter Relays in the 21-year
career of W&L head coach Norris
Aldridge. In winning the mile,
Martin was the only Division III
athlete to win an event at the
meet.

The women also competed
against Division I opponents at the
Virginia Tech Women’s In-
vitational.

Head coach John Tucker was
pleased with his 1600-meter relay
team and also highlighted the
performances of freshman Wendy
Neel in the 60-meter dash, soph-
omore Nicole Casteel in the 3000
meters and sophomore Rita Poin-
dexter in the 200 meters.

‘‘We’re gaining valuable ex-
perience against some of the best
right now,’’ said Tucker. ‘‘It will
pay off tremendously when we run
schools Division III.’’

 

This weekend, both the men’s
and women’s teams will be in
action at the Virginia Tech All-
Comers Meet.

The Washington and Lee
Athletics Promotion Committee is
sponsoring several events next
week at home athletic events.

At the swim meet between
W&L and Mary Washington on
Saturday, the seniors on both the
men’s and women’s teams will be
honored on Senior Day. There will
also be giveaways, including hats
and t-shirts.

On Tuesday, during the W&L-
Eastern Mennonite basketball
game, the Rockbridge Area Rec-
reation Association will be hon-
ored and youths in the RARO
basketball league will play during
halftime.

On Thursday, six seniors on
the W&L basketball team will be
honored before the game in Sen-
ior Night. The ceremony starts at
7:20 before the 7:30 tip-off a-
gainst Guilford. Fans are en-
couraged to arrive early for the
ceremony.

 

 

 

 

 

R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church

ane Right 7

Sp

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

 

 

 

Sunday Services: 8:30 & 10:30 a.m. Robby Jones
5:00 p.m. : 703/463-2022

Dinner and Bible Study: 5:45 p.m. Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson st.
107 Lee Avenue With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

 

 

Every Saturday Night at6PM =
Over 50 ways to win money. |
You do not need to be a League bowler to bor 1

NIVANL

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

 

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

(2)

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

SPOTS AVAILABLE.

464-BOWL (2695)

 

68 Volkswagon
70,000 original miles $1500
Call Leon Holland
at 463-9141 before 4:00 p.m. or
463-3315 after 4:00 p.m.

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual
or student organization needed to
promote Spring Break trip. Earn
money, free trips and valuable work
experience. CALL NOW! Inter-
Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013.

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

‘@ Nationwide is on your side

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN
Agent
203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ePerfumes

Charge Accounts

e Free Delivery

 

 

ATTENTION

ALL SOPHOMORES AND JUNIORS:

KATHEKON

IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR
MEMBERSHIP!

The term "KATHEKON"comes from the Greek ‘phrase "To Kathekon" which, loosely
translated, means that we “have an obligation to serve and to be mindful of our duty; and
obligation to do that which is meet and proper."

It is a word that seems to represent General Lee's sense of duty.

Founded in 1984, KATHEKON is a creation of the Alumni Office and the Alumni
Board of Directors and has a twofold purpose:
(1) to recognize undergraduates as alumni-in-residence and therefore familiarize
and involve them with the Alumni Association and its work on behaif of the University, and
to work as a Civic leadership group on campus, using its energy and influence
to affect the W&L community positively and constructively.

From its inception Kathekon has been involved in numerous campus events of a
public relations nature. KATHEKON, among other things, assists at Homecoming and
Spring Alumni Weekends, hosts the Freshman Orientation Barbeque and a New Faculty
Cocktail Party each Fall, and writes personal letters of congratulations to all students
admitted under the early decision program.

APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FEBRUARY 7 AT CAROL CALKIN'S
OFFICE IN THE UNIVERSITY CENTER. THERE ARE A LIMITED NUMBER OF

For more information, contact any KATHEKON member and look for the
KATHEKON article in the Aing-tum Phi.

 
ELECTION ’91

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

f

ae

Kennington, Perkins seek presidency

Clayton Kennington, °92, and
Giles Perkins, ’92L will face off for
1991-92 Executive Committee presi-
dent in Monday’s Big Three election.

Joshua MacFarland, °93, Kirk
Ogden, '93, and Hamilton ‘‘Bo’’
Russell, "92, will compete for the EC
vice presidency.

Caroline Wight, '92, faces no
‘opponents for EC secretary.

, Election boxes will be open from
8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday. Run-offs
‘will be on Thursday.

Presidential candidates answered
before the Wednesday forum the
following questions. All candidates
responded to the first question.
"1, What should be the main role
pf the EC?

2. How strong is the W&L Honor
System today?

3. What do you think of the Con-
fidential Review Committee?

; 4. How has the EC so far handled
the White Book Revisions Commit-
tee’s proposals?

 

Clayton Kennington

‘{1,] The Executive Committee must fairly implement
the Honor System, not be the police force. When you
have a problem you can easily feel like you’re more than
welcome to come and talk to any member and not create
an us vs. them relationship.

‘(2.] The Honor System is working. It’s fairly
evident that the system is strong now. Students support
it as well as faculty. There doesn’t seem to be that us
vs. them attitude like there was last year. It’s more that
the Executive Committee is just there to enforce the
Honor System. We're not looking for people, and we’re
not trying to get people.

‘‘(3.] The main change is that we need more educa-
tion, because I don’t think a lot of people even know
what the CRC stands for. Educating would also get rid
of the fear. Maybe as a result more people would tum
in more things. They would know the Confidential
Review Committee is a very confidential committee, and
there’s no reason not to turn something in.

‘[4.] It’s been a healthy experience for us to find our
faults, but it’s been a learning experience on both sides.
It was good that the Executive Committee evaluated the
Honor System. The committee discussed each individual
proposal, and they’re in the backs of our minds now,

where as before they might not have been.”’ Giles Perkins

 

 

‘‘{1.] The traditional role of the EC is always associ
ated with the Honor System. Enforcement of that code
is essential to the school. However, we are elected repre
sentatives of the school. As the school is going through
changes, and the administration is assuming new roles
which may or may not be appropriate, the EC’s most
important task is going to be to represent the student
body’s opinions of the issues on campus. «I mean
representing to the administration, to the board, and to the
alumni at large.

**(2.] The Honor System is strong here, but it’s chang
ing as the typical W&L student changes. It’s very
important that we instill to every entering class that the
Honor System is a lot of what W&L is about. The
Honor System is as strong as the people that are running
the EC.

“[3.] I would like to see the student representatives to
CRC elected. As it stands, while it may work effectively,
there’s very little student trust in the CRC, because the
students don’t have a role in defining who’s on it.

“[4.] The EC has handled the proposals well. We
didn’t agree on everything among ourselves, but the fact
that we engaged in discussion about the issues is probably
the best thing that could come from the White Book
proposals. The few changes we made were good. By
failing to make major changes we went a long way

— Rick Peltz ..candidate for EC president ..candidate for EC president toward preserving the Honor System.’’

Wight

‘The main role of the Executive
Committee is preserving and main-
taining the Honor System. Also the
fact that power is in the students’
hands. From going to the West Point
Honor Conference and talking to
other schools about their honor sys-
tems, they profess to have power in
the students’ hands. We actually do,
and that’s incredible. We are elected,
and decisions are made on behalf of
students by students.

 

MacFarland

‘‘The main role of the EC, aside
from the Honor System, of course, in
protecting the White Book, is to
reflect the interests of the students.
The EC can be less of an arm for the
administration and more out there to
protect the students. A good example
of that is with the car tax. The EC
has fully supported the boycott. Also
with the recent incident of three stu-
dents suspended by President Wilson
for breaking windows at fraternities.

Russell

‘‘The Executive Committee almost
frightens students, especially last year.
The Executive Committee was almost
like a Big Brother committee, and the
students were intimidated by it. The
Executive Committee ought to be
there to protect the values of the
school and the students. It ought to
give them the confidence in the EC
as completely trustworthy until prov-
en otherwise. It should be there to
insure that students’ rights are not

Ogden

“The EC should uphold the White
Book and the honor code. That’s
one of the most important things.
Also, what is often overlooked in
campaigns like this is the role of EC
as effective student government. It
should represent, articulate and fight
for the students’ interests. I was the
only underclassman to participate in .
discussing car taxes with the mayor,
the city council and the commissioner
of revenue. There should be a bal-

     

Kirk Ogden

4 Josh That shows his disdain for the stu- ance between defending, maintaining Bo Russell violated.’’ Caroline Wight ‘‘The honor is most important, but
© MacFarland = dent government. That kind of thing : and protecting the honor code, and a ; ..secretary the budget has to be done too.”’
¢ ...VP candidate has to go to a student conduct com- ...VP candidate government that articulates the stu- «VP candidate candidate

mittee.’’

   

 

dents’ interests. 4

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742

     
    
        
     

    

 

Drivin’ m’ Cryin 130 S. Main St. _.463-7969
New Albums
: $12.95 CD
: $8.95 Tape

ue ‘ Lee Hi Restaurant located at the Lee Hi Truck Stop
‘ 200-500 Summer Camp Positions Available

Staff Referral Services provides a network of camps,
now hiring, from the “Keys” to Wisconsin-Minn. One

application reaches all camps. Applications at the,
‘f| Student Employment Office. ~

Our regular price!

Mon.-Thurs. 11-8; Fri. 11-7; Sat. 11-5

Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

Breakfast Served Anytime

sue seer ne 4

Marlene’s Hairstylist

‘ 25 N. Main St.
463-6003

 

 

 

 

SHOE FIXERS

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666 4
() >) EE

of eS ae EE ?

10 Tanning Beds
For $40

Oa ©

ae

WILLSON-
WALKER
HOUSE pm,

 

Marlene, Kelly, and Crystal invite you by for your
Fancy Dress and Spring Break cut or style.

 

Mon.-Fri. 9-5; Saturdays 9-2

ADMISSIONS
COUNSELOR

The W&L Admissions Office is now accepting
applications for an anticipated Admissions
Counselor position. All interested graduating
seniors should submit a cover letter and resume

Restaurant

 

 

Reservations are recommended

30. N. Main St., Lexington

 

 

 

no later than Monday, February 25, 1991 to:

appagoWo’

 

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Director of Admissions

Big Sale Office of Admissions

Merchandise

 

 

 

help you

Ss >

 

23 N. Main St.
court the Lexington La rge Farm House
ogysl0-Say STEREO EQUIPMENT In Country
| TS Love Yo uh STEREO EQUIPMENT REPAIRS
THE BEST COMPACT DISCS

Specializing in: CLASSICAL, NEW AGE, POPULAR/ROCK
BEFORE 1975, SOUNDTRACKS!

Special Orders Welcomed
Hundreds of Mint 60’s Albums and 45’s!
(When they’re gone, they’re gone!)

ONE WEEK SPECIAL ONLY
IMPROVE YOUR STEREO FM RECEPTION DRAMATICALLY!
TERK Pi Small Powered Indoor FM Antenna - List, $79.95, Now $69.95
Pre-owned: ADCOM 555 200 Watt/Channel Power Amplifier - $485
ADCOM 565 Preamplifier - $595, AR ES-1 Audiophile Turntable - $435

‘Che
Sonic CGallery

Fine Stereo ae and Recordings
for the Discriminating Listener
464-1100
Old Main Street Building, 29 N. Main St., Lexington
Weekdays: Noon to 6PM, Saturdays 10AM to 5PM

Simply send roses,
three, six or an
even dozen.

10 miles west (10 minutes)
Recently Remodeled.

am.

 

 

 

5 Bedrooms
Lots of Outdoors
Available June Ist

 Rieflor’

the
i fferson .

>

florist to The Homestead
Ten East Nelson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

463-6575 Office
463-2868 Home

 

 

 

 

 

i a

 
 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

a mu mm —

ome One. Come All.
A RALLY TO SUPPORT |

OUR TROOPS

SPONSORED BY VIRGINIANS
FOR VICTORY

Saturday, Feb. 9

2:00 PM
- Warner Center

Washington and Lee University

  

 

  

Keynote Address: Congressman

Admiral Jeremiah Denton, Robert K. Dornan

7 Yr. POW & Former House Armed Services
U.S. Senator Committee

Dr. Ali Al-Turrah T. Kenneth Cribb, Jr.

Former Reagan

Senior Domestic Public
Advisor

Cultural Councillor For
The Embassy of Kuwait

Sandra Charles,

Advisor, National —_——_———.Co-Chairmen

* = Marc Short, Kate Obenshain,
Security Council Washington &Lee University of Virginia

 

‘
’
‘
‘
}
‘
é

 
