 

VA. 2444

a Athletes of the year --- see page 6

Che KRing-tum Phi

 

" VOLUME 90, NO. 30

 

By Pamela Kelley
Associate Editor

 

i Lexington police and Washington and Lee

Security are still investigating a series of thefts
which occurred last week in unlocked rooms in the
freshman dormitories.
* According to W&L Security Director Charles
, Murph”’ Murray, four freshmen reported a total
over $1,200 of missing property Thursday.
Lexington Police Sgt. Torben Peterson said the
thefts probably occurred Thursday in the early
morning hours after 1 a.m.
« Peterson said the stolen property was mostly
jewelry, tapes and compact discs, and things which
were ‘‘quick to get out and easily concealable.’’
Police said the thefts occurred in one third-
floor room of Baker, Gilliam and Graham-Lee’s
tach. A VCR belonging to one student was also
yaken from a second-floor lounge in Baker

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

dormitory.

One key to solving the break-ins may be in a
report filed with the police by Rebecca Parkins,
who also lives on Baker dorm’s third floor.

Parkins awoke shortly after 4 a.m. Thursday
morning when an unidentified black male entered
her room. Parkins told authorities the man ran
away when she screamed, although she glimpsed
him long enough to help police create a composite
of his face.

In addition to the freshmen dormitory thefts,
W&L security members also think the burglars
attempted to steal a VCR from Newcomb Hall.
According to Murray, Custodian Sharon Nicely
encountered two black males, whom she did not
recognize, on the building’s ground floor at
approximately 3:30 a.m. After they left she found
a VCR from the hall’s third floor in the main
hallway.

Nicely said Newcomb Hall’s lights were out
and she heard voices on the building’s second or

Dorm thefts puzzle police

third floor when she entered the building around
2:30 am, but assumed some students were upstairs
studying,

According to Nicely, one male descended to the
first floor and saw her cleaning. She said he went
back upstairs, returned with another man, asked her
where the restrooms were and the two left shortly
afterward. Nicely called campus security when she
turned the ground floor lights on and found the
VCR.

Nicley said the police sketch made from
Rebecca Parkins’ description resembled one of the
men she saw.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard said the
investigatton has tumed up a few leads, although
nothing concrete. Authorities checked the license
plate of an automobile that was towed from the
parking area near the freshman dormitories shortly
after the time the robberies are thought to have
occurred, Peterson did not say whether the owner
was a suspect.

 

Cry of the Wolfe

 

 

By Thomas Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Former Washington and Lee soph-
omore Ulysses Shiu-Ting Hui was
sentenced to a $2,500 fine and two
years of probation Friday for smug-
gling and possession of drugs.

U.S. District Judge James Turk
said in the Roanoke Times and
World-News that he did not imprison
Hui because Hui had not been in
trouble previously.

Turk could have sentenced Hui to
a prison term of up to six months.

Hui testified at his sentencing
hearing in Roanoke that he accepted
full responsibility for his actions.

“I realize how stupid what I did
was,’’ Hui said. ‘‘I let down those
who trusted my judgement — my
family, my friends. I will not make
the same mistake again.”’

In February, Hui pleaded guilty to
charges of illegally importing a one-
ounce package of hashish and pos-
sessing 75 grams of marijuana.

Hui was arrested at the Sigma Phi
Epsilon house on Jan. 10 by federal
agents after accepting a package of
hashish that he had sent himself from
his home in Hong Kong. Hui had
addressed the package to an unwitting
fraternity brother.

 

 

commencement in the Warner Center. His s

Author Thomas Wolfe, '51, speaks to the third-year law class at Saturday’s law school
peech focused on the perils universities are facing
in the era of “political correctness.” Degrees were awarded to 110 graduates in W&L’s 136th
law school graduation. Phi photo by Hal Waller.

When arrested, Hui had marijua-
na and a hashish pipe in his pocket.
The agents also found a plastic bag
of marijuana in his freezer.

The fraternity expelled Hui the
night of his arrest.

 

 

Cadet gets Panhel ma

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

a,

 

\ \ a Z ‘

 

Lexington police released this
composite, drawn from a W&L
student’s account, of a man
suspected of intruding in Baker
dormitory.

Court hands Hui
probation, fine

SPE President Brad Peterson, a
junior, said some fraternity members
think the sentence is too harsh, but
that he disagrees.

“I feel that it’s a felony charge of
a pretty serious nature, and that the
sentence is pretty just,’’ Peterson
said.

Hui told the Roanoke paper he
intends to reapply to W&L.
Se een a SL
dents David L.
Howison _ said
Hui withdrew
rom — Ene
University prior
to a [Student
Conduct Com-
mittee] judicial
action’’ and is
Sligiple to
reapply.

“T expect to hear from him [Hui]
very soon,’’ Howison said.

Peterson had not spoken to Hui
and said he does not know if Hui
will seek to affiliate with the frater-
nity. Hui would have to undergo a
long and tedious process of appeal to
the SPE national fraternity, Peterson
said.

“We don’t talk about it much
because he is not around here
much,”’ said SPE Vice President Max
Dunlap, a sophomore.

Hui’s application would be re-
viewed by the Commitice on Re-
admission, which includes Howison,
Dean of the College John W. Elrod
and several faculty members, accord-
ing to Howison.

 

 

Hui

 

May 23, 1991

SAB
reports
deficit

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

 

Members of the Student Activi-
ties Board told the Executive
Committee Monday that the SAB will
end the year over $3,000 in debt
ticause of unexpected costs from
Fancy Dress.

FD Chairman John Flippen told
the EC that FD came up $6,300 in
the red. He said the deficit consisted
of $500 for missing rented equip-
ment, $400 for a second printing of
invitations for faculty and _ staff,
$1,000 for fireworks, and $2,000 for
cleanup.

Flippen said the extra cleaning
costs were ‘‘totally unexpected.’’

SAB Chairwoman Kathleen Duwel
said the $2,000 paid for 20 people at
$11 per hour to clean. Duwel said ihe
cleaners were mostly ‘‘friends and
family’? of Buildings and Grounds
personnel. She said B&G was sup-
posed to do the whole job and the
SAB would file a formal complaint.

EC President Tom Hatcher said
the problems were partly due to the
fact that no financial records survived
from last year’s FD, so there was no
guide for this year’s planners.

Duwel said the SAB will probab-
ly end the year with a surplus of
about $3,000 which will be applied to
the $6,300 FD debt. Thus SAB will
end the year with about a $3,000
deficit. Duwel said she will present
the final figures to the EC at its
Monday meeting.

Duwel said another reason for the
deficit was the disappointing turnout
at last week’s Neville Brothers con-
cert. She said about 430 people at-
tended instead of the projected 800 to
1,000. As a result, the concert, which
cost the SAB about $18,000, only
brought in $3,000 in revenues.

The 1988-89 SAB left a deficit
that ultimately amounted to over
$20,000 in unpaid bills, taking the
1989-90 SAB and EC largely by
surprise.

That earlier deficit resulted in a
concentrated SAB-EC effort to more
closely monitor SAB and FD spend-
ing, including by the closing of
charge accounts. Efforts were also
directed at bringing the 1990 FD
under budgetary control for the first
time, a feat Duwel said had not been
accomplished in remembered history.

In other business, the EC-elect, in
executive session, named Christopher
Haley as the chairman of the Student
Conduct Commitice for 1991-92,

y cut pledge class sizes in half

diploma in
U.S. court

«By Craig Burke
_ Assignments Editor

 

 

* Despite opposition from Virginia

, Military Institute’s Board of Visitors,
a federal court in Roanoke ordered
‘the military academy to hand over a
,cadet’s diploma.

Michael Scott Milner received his
‘diploma in a federal courtroom Mon-
day, two days after VMI commence-
“ment exercises.
¢ Milner’s attorneys, Bernard and
David Natkin, filed a petition Friday
*in the U.S. District Court in Roanoke,
«asking the court to allow Milner to
graduate Saturday with the rest of his
‘class

The petition stated that Milner
was told he couldn’t participate in
‘commencement exercises or receive
his commission into the United States
‘Air Force, because VMI claimed it
+wWas investigating him.

The investigation was rumored to
‘center around an audio recording of a
sexual encounter between a cadet and
“a female VMI employee.

» Officials from VMI and Milner’s
lawyers refused to comment on the
“investigation.

, The two parties reached an agree-
ment Friday afternoon. VMI agreed
‘to mail the cadet his diploma Monday
,if he didn’t participate in Commence-
ment

' VMI's Board of Visitors, howev
er, voted unanimously Saturday mom

_ Please see CADET page 4

 

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

Sorority women may see their pledge classes
cut in half next year, Panhellenic President Dale
Wyatt said on Tuesday.

The PHC is investigating different quota
setting techniques for women’s winter rush
1992 for two reasons, both to lower pledge
class and chapter size of the three groups here
and to make room for a fourth group to rush
successfully.

‘*Pi Beta Phi said that they will not come if
they are not assured that their chapter size will
equal those of the existing sororities at W&L

within two years,’’ Wyatt said, ‘‘so we need to
make a drastic change in our present system or
look for a new plan.”’

Wyatt said that even if Pi Beta Phi should
reject the invitation, another group will be
invited to colonize as the fourth sorority, so the
quota adjustment is necessary cither way.

Last week, PHC invited the Assistant Dean
of Women and Greek Affairs from the
University of Richmond, Alison Bartel-Lord, to
visit W&L to explain Richmond’s present
extension methods, which have been extremely
successful. Dean Bartel-Lord discussed goal-
setting for rush with a new group.

‘“Because they are similar in size and rush
Statistics, we feel that we can benefit more

from their experience than we can necessarily
from National Panhellenic suggestions,”
Panhellenic Rush representative Brannon Aden
said. ‘‘Richmond’s system would allow the
newest sorority to start with many more girls
during rush than the other three, giving them a
strong chapter from the start.’’

Kappa Kappa Gamma nationals oppose the
proposed quota change mainly because it is not
in the National Pahellenic Council handbook.
Chi Omega and Kappa Alpha Theta nationals
have not been contacted for responses, but PHC
expects similar reactions.

“Our nationals are all scared of seeing our
chapters get smaller numbers, but it’s gonna
take drastic reductions to get a fourth group on,

and our nationals know that we need one,”’
Wyatt said.

Dean Atkins agreed that the proposed
change would give the new group a much
better chance to survive.

“If we give one-half of the rushees to the
new group right off the bat, we will make them
a strong group immediately,’’ Atkins said.
“‘Otherwise they might end up very small like
DG and no one will want to join because such
small numbers are not an attractive option.’’

Aden also acknowledged the need for a
major adjustment.

‘In the situation that we’re in, we must
compromise to avoid last year’s problems,’’
Aden said.

 

Graduating seniors anticipate future, reflect on past
Sheepskin sets W&L diplomas apart

 

By Thomas Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Wilson and Executive Committee
Vice President Raymond Welder
will speak at Commencement.

Despite the beginning that ‘‘co-

 

 

The end of the road is just
around the corner for seniors at
Washington and Lee.

W&L will graduate 403 stu-
dents with 405 degrees on Thurs-
day, June 6, said University Regis-
trar Scott Dittman. Dittman said
Lovell West and Shana Horrigan,
will have each earned two degrees.

The College will award 268
degrees and the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics
will award 137, Dittman said.

The traditional Baccalaureate
Service will take place at 11 a.m.
on June 5. Commencement will
follow the next morning at 11 on
the president's front lawn.

University President John D.

mmencement’’ implies, many se-
niors view it more as saying a
tearful farewell to an old and
changing friend.

Student Activities Board Chair-
woman Kathleen Duwel said she
will miss the intimate W&L envi-
ronment.

“T’ll miss the small classes,
where you know everyone, and the
teachers who really seem to care
about you,’’ Duwel said. ‘‘Next
year I'll be one of the masses,’’

Former Kappa Kappa Gamma
President Linsly Hunt said she
appreciates the natural beauty of
the Lexington area

(J Please see GRADS page 4

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

What do W&L graduates have
in common with graduates of
schools like Notre Dame, Amherst,
Smith, and Williams?

A diploma

Of course, every college grants
diplomas. But W&L is one of only
eight institutions left in the United
States that gives out
sheepskin diplomas

So what goes into making the
diplomas destined to grace office
and den walls across America?

genuine

According to
Registrar

University

Scott Dittman, the

William Cowley Co. of Buck
minster, England is the only source
of sheepskin for diplomas in the
world,

The sheepskin is sent to Herff-
Jones in Pennsylvania, the only
company which will still prints on
sheepskin.

In turn, Herff-Jones prints the
diplomas with the only ink which
will both adhere to the skin and
meet federal Environmental Protec

tion Agency standards for safety

The ink, of course, is produced
by only one company. In Ger
) pan)

many

Each graduate receives special
instructions with the diploma
detailing how it should be framed

Dittman said the instructions are
the result of an 18-month experi-
ment done by the Cowley Co. at
the request of W&I

The for diploma
comes to about $46, according to
Dittman. Thus the university, with
about 400 undergraduate and 100
law students graduating each year,
spends close to $25,000 a year on
diplomas

Dittman said W&L could get
“‘good-quality parchment
for 510 each

However, a sheepskin diploma
is more durable
Dittman said

cost each

diplo
mas”’

than paper
sheepskin cannot be
ripped and must be cut with a

blade to be destroyed

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 ee ees es ee ewe ee errnws

awe ea EERO ee ee ew ere ee 6 re ee ee er ne

OPINION

 

Boys and girls,

We have listened to the angry tirades from both camps.
We have read and re-read the statements of the warring
factions. We have spoken with the generals from each side,
as well as many of the foot soldiers. This week we have
stood by_as our own pages have been transformed into a
battle ground. We have observed the battle from a safe,
albeit noisy, stronghold, and we have seen the light.

There is a way to end this war. There is only one way
to end this war. The antagonists must stand up, brush
themselves off, step out of the sandbox, and walk away.

The recent tumult between The Washington and Lee
Spectator and its supporters and Assistant Professor of Art
Valerie Hedquist and her backers has done nothing but show
that Washington and Lee is most certainly not the special
place it tries so hard to tell the world it is.

The world has grown accustomed to childish bickering in
other arenas: the World Wrestling Federation, Congress,
‘*Geraldo,’’ France. Apparently, onlookers must now expect
the same from W&L.

We are dismayed that both students and faculty at our
university would allow themselves to be whipped into such
a frenzy that there is no longer any hope for a mature,
reasoned discourse.

It wasn’t always this way. In the beginning, there were
serious issues raised by both sides, issues that otherwise
would demand our attention. The problem is, those issues
have been overrun by a largely useless adolescent squabble.

When we decided to explore the issues surrounding this
case, one thing we did not expect was to find two armies so
blinded by hate, that they could do no better than throw
insults in the general direction of their opposition.
Unfortunately, this is exactly what we have found. And this
is why the solution proposed above is the only feasible one.

Get up and go home, both of you. Play with your own

Se ee ae

friends until you learn how to behave.

Thankfully, the perfect opportunity for the two of you to
do just that is upon us. Summer is fast approaching. We
will provide no more forums for these hate-exchanges, at
least for now. We will leave this place and hope that upon
our return in September, we will find the peaceful, friendly,
mature community that once welcomed us here at W&L.

None tonight

In case you haven’t heard, the Lenfest Center is having
another Grand Opening this weekend. Actually, this is the
Grand Opening. Publicity abounds. The denizens of the
long-neglected Washington and Lee Drama Department are
now going to great lengths to bathe in the congratulations of
an adoring media.

It would seem that success has gone straight to their
collective head.

If the Phi staff had a dollar for every complaint from the
Drama Department we’ve received about a lack of coverage,
we would all be quite rich. In response, the new editorial
staff has attempted to better cover the Lenfest Center.

In following with what seems to be a recent tradition at
W&L, our efforts have been met with a less than civil
response. The best thing about drama stories is that they are
often accompanied by entertaining pictures. That’s apparently
not going to happen with The Ring-tum Phi, because we
were prohibited from taking flash photography during a
recent rehearsal of Evita, and will apparently never be able
to. We do not propose to disturb any actual performances,
merely to use about .005 seconds of time to shoot a couple
of photos.

Obviously, as recent on-campus feuds go, this is a pretty
boring one. Nevertheless, when an entire department of the
university acts in such a manner, we think you ought to
know about it.

Quote of the week

As you can see here gentlemen, we've got a full house. We
appreciate the publicity, but obviously we don’t need it.

— Lenfest Center employee Mike Gorman informing the
Phi’s photo editor that no flash photography would be
allowed during Tuesday’s rehearsal of Evita, thank you.

 

 

    
   
   
   
       

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley
Cathy Lopiccolo

News Editor

       
         
        
 
  

meer Goer BO eg, 6 phe eee ee Courtney Hall
Editorial rage Editor ees Joshua Manning
OU (sv 1 eee Jay Plotkin

Entertainment Editor
Assignments Editor

Photo Editor
Cartoonist

Marcy Brown
Craig Burke
Leigh Allen
Tim Molloy

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

me ene MME 8 i se
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

 

     
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

 

MAIN EVENT:
HEDQUIST vs. SPECTATOR

Alum returns to
changed Wé&L .

 

MY VIEW
By Harvey Allen, Jr., ’

 

 

 

You can go home again. I know because I did. For,
the first time in almost fifteen years, I came back home
to Washington and Lee this month for a weekend reunion

‘‘with my classmates,’’ few of whom I actually got to
see. Reunions are great if the people you were closely in
touch with come back too... like fraternity brothers, or,
folks who did the same extra-curricular activities.

With a shortage of members from the Class of '61;
I immersed myself in meeting and talking to as many,
current students as possible, went to Frank Parsons’ class,
paid my respects to General Lee, and talked with newy
and longtime faculty members and administrators. It was
also a special event to talk with my fraternity brothers,
Kappa Sigma, hear their concerns, and rejoice over their,
new home the old ZBT house.

Reading the business news on WLUR-FM Friday*
night was a mountaintop experience for me. I recalled,
my days as a senior editor of ‘‘Home Edition,’’ a
evening radio news show that was then broadcast over’
WREL, then the AM station in town. My thanks to,
WLUR-FM, especially Pam Kelley, for my ‘‘air time.”’

You current students and almost graduates are really'
terrific. I am truly impressed by all whom I met and,
talked to, which is more than I can say for some of the
administration and faculty. You are bright, good-looking!
(the girls only), and appreciative of the rich heritage of,
your university.

You value the honor system, being yourselves,
treasure your friendships (some of which will last a life-
time), and just enjoy being a part of what only a Wash-"
ington and Lee student can fully comprehend: what somes
folks call ‘ta Mink.’’ When I was a student, I really,
didn’t pay much attention to the ‘‘mink’’ stuff, although’
the VMI folks liked to call us that for some reason.
However, they still liked to party with us and keep

 

Mouroy

 

PC profs make unjustified attack .

 

MY VIEW
By Paul Lagarde

 

As a soon-to-be alumnus, I wish to express my
disappointment over several professors’ actions
concerning the Spectator and Professor Hedquist.
Since I am no longer an editor of the magazine, I
can speak only for myself; the current editors will
respond in their own manner.

As a former editor of the Spectator, | have a
unique perspective on the whole affair. The Spec-
fator is a conservative magazine, and for that
reason it is controversial, especially among the
faculty. No one would admit that he doesn’t like
the Spectator simply because it is conservative, but
I believe it’s true. So the illiberal educators come
up with other reasons to disparage it. I can’t tell
you the number of times that the magazine has
been criticized for its ‘‘tone.’’ Many professors, as
well as deans, have personally told me that they do
not mind what the Spectator says, only how the
magazine says it.

Well, listen to what the professors say about
the Spectator — and how they say it. So far, the

magazine has been accused of being “blatantly
‘Tacist, sexist, and offensively conservative’ without

‘substantiation (by Professors Hedquist and Simp-

 

For the PC professors,
academic freedom is a
subjective concept... That is
intolerant and uncivil.

son). Simpson has called its editors ‘‘angry,’’
‘‘hostile,’’ uncivil, intolerant, and writers of ‘‘hate-
filled prose.’’ Professor Peck will have her turn in
the new issue of The Traveller. Other professors
are actually signing some sort of protest, which I
assume will be made public, against the Spectator.

Everything that the Spectator has written about
Professor Hedquist has been in response to specific
actions that she took on her own initiative. The first
editorial in the April issue of the Spectator was
mild when compared to the latest issue which
featured Hedquist on the front cover. Professor
Hedquist ignored the first editorial, and, according-
ly, the Spectator reacted to her subsequent actions.

In my opinion, the outcry against the Spectator

 

General who?

Publication mocks Lee’s code of

 

MY VIEW
By Damon L. Sanders

 

The Speaking Tradition is a part of the legacy
left by General Lee to the students of W&L. The
gist of it is understood by all: greet people kindly,
and expect the same from others. This greeting
does not have to go beyond ‘‘How are you?’’ to
which the response is something like ‘‘I’m fine,
thank you. And yourself?’’ Some students at W&L
have a difficulty remembering their lines or re-
sponding to their cues.

W&L possesses individuals that wish to cling
to the traditions of Lee. A few individuals that
espouse their reverence for Lee’s codes of honor
and civility lack creativity, rationale and... civility.
I] judge them by their reactionary, irrational and
vitriolic writings or by my personal experience
with them. Several of these individuals write for
a publication that places the last nails in the coffin
of civility and gentlemanly behavior.

Some of their criticisms have some validity, but
the thesis of virtually each and every article seems
to get lost somewhere amidst race and sex. Affir-
mative Action, military appointments, deconstruct-
ionism and a host of other items are debatable and
amendable, yet nothing can be accomplished until
the frustrated authors of these misbegotten articles
deal with the fundamental principles behind each of
these issues. They should first explain what are the
principles behind what they are complaining about,
what these principles are intended to accomplish,
will the policies inspired by these principles ac-
complish their goal and why or why not.

Articles on Affirmative Action end up being
lirades on unqualified Blacks. Without going into
what ‘‘unqualified’’ means, the history behind
Affirmative Action, why it was implemented, what
it has done and is supposed to do is left unchal-
lenged. Their solutions to the problems that they
neglect to deal with, the ones that brought the

policy about in the first place, are grounded in
another era. The necessity for the United States to
prepare for an uncertain future goes beyond the
“‘glory days’’ of the turbulent sixties and Lee’s
era. Forward looking citizens are trying to figure
out ways to utilize all human capital at their
disposal. The face of the nation is changing, and
if we continue to act blithely about it, we will fail
to recognize ourselves and our strengths in the
future.

A few individuals that
espouse their reverence for
Lee’s code of honor lack
creativity, rationale, and
civility.

Our country has a magnificent as well as sordid
past. Many injustices were necessary and elim-
inated in order to pave the way for this magnif-
icent past. However, sins of our past and present
creep upon us. Affirmative Action and other
initiatives seek to atone for these sins. The effect-
iveness of these policies is debatable, but they
attempt to make changes for the better.

In an article entitled ‘‘Brave New College,’’ the
authors state their objections to the International
House and the Chavis House. Their complaints
tefer to inequality and favoritism in housing, as
well as lack of access to the students that live in
these residences. These whining individuals should
speak with the appropriate administrator if they are
unhappy with their accommodations.

There have existed openings at the Chavis
House. We would not have objected to having
either of the authors live in the vacant room
(before having read their article, of course.) I’m
sure if the situation of a vacancy in the I-House
were the same, its residents would have a similar
response. Before making statements on such
matters, did the authors of this article take the time

 

various personal items stashed in our houses.

Thank God Saturday classes are gone; they were aj
severe limit on serious partying which usually began with
the Saturday departures to the
academies’’
you have the best of both worlds
and the neighboring riding academies (the term used in’
the Phi during the 50s and 60 s).

Your appearances have changed from my days at the’
University, but mostly for the better. It would be nice to»
see coats and ties on the guys (and skirts on the girls),
but it’s not really as important as who you all are. Inside
and out you are all that I hoped for. ‘

You are the University and you are keeping the Honor
System and the traditions of being great Washington and’
Lee students alive and ng well, thank you. Please keep,
doing what you’re doing. I

‘‘neighboring riding*
to bring back the girls for a weekend. Now

i %
— female ‘‘minks’’

, for one, am very proud.

by a vocal minority gets to the heart of the PC’
issue. The professors seem to think it illegitimate |
for the Spectator to defend itself against its critics. ,
The Spectator ‘‘attacked a professor,” they decry.”
Yet, these professors seem to have no qualms?
about attacking the Spectator, Professor Simpson |
even personally attacked its editor.

The double standard is obvious. One doesn’t
write letters or sign petitions over a mere disagree- |
ment. In truth, the PC professors cannot stand the '
very fact that the Spectator exists. For them, »
academic freedom is a subjective concept; question

authority, question society, question your parents’ *

enc

eg

 

values. But don’t you dare question the academy or,

any of the illiberal faculty members! That is

intolerant and uncivil. y

In today’s university, if one has a_ liberal
opinion, he is open-minded; all conservatives are
considered close-minded. And so, the ‘‘open-

minded’’ faculty members continue to write letters 4

and sign petitions and call the conservative students
racist, sexist, and intolerant.
Newsweek, The New Republic, and The Atlantic

join National Review, The Wall Street Journal, and *

The Richmond Times-Dispatch in denouncing the
PC crowd, it’s time for everyone to take notice.

honor, civility

to investigate the procedures on acquiring a res-
idence in either of these two houses?

I doubt that either Nomikos or Ebner have *

made a serious effort to make the acquaintance of
the residents of the I-House or the Chavis House.
Curiously enough, I have never seen either one of
them come knocking at my door with ‘‘Greetings
and felicitations to ail!’’ Part of the problem with

But when Time, *

 

them not making enough friends at the I-House and
at Chavis is that they just don’t care to or are not

trying very hard at all!

Race(ism) and sex(ism) seem to take the place
of valid arguments against progressive policy. A
particular article in the publication that undermines
civility states that whites parading around in
““blackface’’ is not racist. ‘‘Blackface’’ had and
still has a mocking, condescending and offensive
connotation towards Blacks. If it no longer does,
I would like Nomikos and Ebner to inform me of
when the connotation changed and what it means
today.

The same publication now attacks professors in
an effort to promote or restore ‘‘civility’’ to the
University. A particular professor objects to the
depiction of women as those-who-should-stay-at-
home-if-they-don’t-want-to-be-raped, and as incap-
able authors with nothing befitting the canon that
scholars study. For this, she is defamed by the
publication, Remarkable! There are women that are
conservative on this publication’s staff. However,
their acquiescence, assistance and association to
articles that promote sexism can only be trying on
their rationale and intellect.

W&L should be the last place that would
defend total freedom of speech and expression. The
Honor Code and the code of civility appear to
deem some speech and expression unacceptable:
making racist and sexist remarks is not civil
behavior, and throwing beer bottles through frater-
nity house windows is not acceptable expression.
These codes are in difficult times, and a few that
supposedly value these traditions are pushing them
over the edge of obscurity.
OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

 

 

Hedquist states
position

Editor:

In hopes of clarifying my actions which I
believe have been misunderstood, I offer the
following facts.

In early spring, I wrote two local business
owners regarding their advertisements in the
independent paper, the Spectator. Since | shopp-
ed on a fairly regular basis at both businesses, I
felt comfortable asking these two individuals to
reconsider their decisions to advertise in the
Spectator. I enclosed a copy of the Spectator so
that they could draw their own conclusions.

I believed at the time I wrote the two letters
in February, as I do now, that I have not only a
Constitutional right to express myself in this
manner, but that I also have a social respon-
sibility to do so. It was, and is, in this spirit that
I will continue to conduct my private and profes-
sional life.

Sincerely yours,
Valerie L. Hedquist, Assistant Professor

Spectator
replies to prof

Editor:

I write to inform you of my utter dismay and
disbelief concerning Dr. Pamela Simpson’s letter
in the May 16 issue of The Ring-tum Phi. Prof-
essor Simpson deliberately and repeatedly mis-
represented the truth with regard to the Spec-
lator’s disagreement with Professor Hedquist.

For the record, we take strong issue with the
following parts of Dr. Simpson’s letter.

“For this she had her classroom invaded by
three angry editors of the Spectator.’’ The three
editors, myself included, were led into her
classroom, which had already been dismissed, by
a student in Dupont Hall. We were neither angry
nor did we ‘‘invade’’ her classroom. Indeed, all
three editors were aware of (and discussed
before we ever saw Dr. Hedquist) the need to
remain completely calm when approaching a
professor over this sensitive matter in order to
avoid any possible misrepresentation of our
actions or motives. We did just that.

‘‘Who, when she asked them to come back
during office hours, returned with hostile accusa-
tions.’ After Professor Hedquist learned who we
were, she quickly told us that evening’s Phi Beta
Kappa dinner, among other things, required her
immediate attention. She therefore asked us to
come back at 8 am. the next morning. Our
alleged ‘‘hostile’’ accusations consisted of asking
the professor if she actually wrote the letters as
we had been told, if we could have a copy of
the letter to print unedited in the magazine and
if she planned to continue writing letters. The
tone of each of the three conversations (she
insisted upon seeing us individually and with the
office door closed) never approached any form
of ‘‘hostility.’’

“Their confrontation with her, and their
subsequent, conversation with me, were not done
in a spirit of civility and tolerance.'’ Not only
did Professor Simpson welcome all three of us
into her office, she readily agreed with us that
we were generally civil people, and at no point
in the conversation did she ever indicate that our
discussion violated this civility. In fact, the
conversation was light, pleasant, and marked by
periodic laughter -- both by the professor and
the editors. I have had several discussions with
the professor over the past two years; they have
always been pleasant in tone. | find this asser-
tion some two months after the meeting in
question most interesting since in a conversation
I held with professor Simpson in late April she
described my offer to further discuss Professor

 

 

LETTERS

Hedquist’s actions ‘‘sweet’’ but unnecessary.
During this April conversation Professor Simpson
was also non-committal regarding her offer to
‘‘get a group of people together for a discussion
of what we find objectional in the magazine."’

“All she did was to write to two local bus-
inessmen who are known to have socially con-
scious views and to ask if they knew the content
of the magazine they were advertising in.”
Professor Hedquist did far more than this. At
least Professor Simpson dropped the earlier claim
that the two businessmen she wrote were her
friends. They were not. Furthermore, according
to one recipient of the letter, it was “‘hostile’’ in
tone. The businessman who showed us a copy of
the letter felt that she was campaigning against
us. She wrote that she would take their advertis-
ing in the Spectator into consideration when she
conducted business in Lexington. Is this not a
boycott? She mailed her second letter (casual
correspondence) via registered mail and stamped
CONFIDENTIAL on the envelope. Her actions
suggest an intentional and methodical campaign
against the magazine.

I also wish to inform you that the magazine
has contacted the media, the Board of Trustees,
and legal counsel regarding this matter.

Sincerely,

Cameron Humphries
Editor-in-chief

The Washington and Lee Spectator

Club objects to
‘ill-informed’
article

Editor:

In regard to the Spectator issue of May 1991,
we, the officers and members of the International
Club, feel the need to publicly air our grievances
against the article ‘‘Brave New College.’’ This
article refers to the International House and Club
in a way which is uninformed. Obviously,
neither Mr. Ebner nor Mr. Nomikos sufficiently
researched their topic before reaching their
erroneous conclusions.

In the article, the authors state, ‘‘Facilities
like the Chavis House continue the segregation
of the undergraduates which began even before
matriculation... It is similarly unfortunate that
international students are treated in a comparable
manner — by having their own residence house
which separates them from the campus at large

— with analogous results.”’

They continue, that if this situation per-
severes, ‘‘W&L will always be divided,’’ and
that we will never again be favored with the
presence of someone like Phillipe Labro, ‘‘the
accomplished French exchange student of the
1950s who integrated himself memorably into
the W&L community.’’ We would like to ad-
dress these points in order:

First, not all international students live in the
International House. Of the international students,
more live in the Gaines and freshman dorms,
Woods Creek apartments, and off-campus hous-
ing than in the International House. In addition,
not all residents of the International House are
international students. In fact, eligibility to live
in the House is open to any International Club
member, most of whom are not international
students.

Second, the International Club and House are
integrating factors for both international and
regular students alike. The Club provides a
forum for communication between the two
groups, and allows them to participate together
in many events in which both share the planning.
Furthermore, the International House furnishes an
important meeting place, especially for the one-
year exchange students who find they can not

take full advantage of the fraternity and sorority
programs. Also, the International Club is larger
than several fraternities, with a current member-
ship of 62.

Finally, with regard to Phillipe Labro, our
understanding of his book, A Foreign Student,
leads us to believe that Labro felt forced, rather
than willingly chose, to conform in order to
survive. Washington and Lee, as the Spectator
continually espouses, is a liberal arts college. A
liberal arts education is one which liberates the
mind. Being forced to conform is the antithesis
of this ideal.

We, therefore, invite anyone, including the
staff of the Spectator, to visit the House and
participate in Club events. In this way we can
promote integration in an environment comfort-
able to all.

Sincerely,

David Cilligan, President

Ashwin Mirchandani, Vice-President

Niv Goldberg, Secretary

Unanimously endorsed by the International Club
membership at a meeting on Tuesday, May 21.

‘Civil’ behavior
Spurs action

Editor: oe

The Spectator ‘‘civilly’’ listed my course
‘‘Women and the Creative Arts’’ among those
that are ‘‘polluting the catalogue.’’ I assume that
they will not then protest when I ‘‘civilly’” write
to their advertisers to suggest that the Spectator
is polluting this campus. Now, won’t the intel-
lectual atmosphere of our campus profit from
this stimulating free exchange of ideas? Is this
Washington and Lee?

With the utmost civility,
Kathy Koberstein, Associate Professor

Professors
speak out

Editor: :

We strongly protest The Washington and Lee
Spectator’s public vilification of our colleague,
Valerie Hedquist, in its most recent issue.

K. Lambert, D. Peck, P. Scofield, G. Campbell,
J. Barnett, C. West-Scttle, H.R. Huntley, D.
Stuart, C. Hankla, N. Margand, K. Koberstein,
D. Novak, M. Rogers, E. Scott, W.L. Sessions,
A. Brown, C. Camuto, K. Van Ness, P. Bourd-
on, P. Wilson, M. Wall, L. Jarrard, J. Lambeth,
A.G. Fralin, S. Kozak, A. Rogers, H. Beckley,
M. Pellicciaro, K. White, R. Marks, L. Olsen, P.
Simpson, G. Spice, T. Gaylard, L. Stene, M.
Brouwer, J. Donaghy

Posthumous
BA for Peniston

Editor:

My wife and I were most pleased to donate
the two prints of Robert E. Lee to the EC. We
did so knowing our son would approve.

There is one bit of information I should like
to provide in addition to last week’s Phi article.

Our son was awarded a Bachelor of Science
with Special Attainments in Commerce on May
29, 1975, albeit posthumously. We take great
pride in the fact that he is a graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee University. It has provided us a
bit of solace these past 16 years, and for that we
are most grateful to General Lee’s college.

Sincerely,
Robert C. Peniston

 

 

IGENERAL NOTES

Clean Sheets

All freshmen using the campus
linen service, remember to tum in
all your white stuff to the Univer-
sity Cleaners by June 3.

Junk Wanted

APO will be collecting unopened
food, furniture and clothes for
donation to Habitat for Humanity,
RARA and other organizations on
Friday and Saturday, May 31 and
June 1 in the Baker, Davis, Gil-
liam and Gaines Quads.

Interns

Career Development and Place-
ment is interested in knowing if
you have been offered an inter-
nship for the summer. If you have
finalized you summer plans, come
by the CD&P office and complete
the proper forms, or speak with
Beverly Lorig, Assistant Director.

Parking Purge

The following university parking
areas will be closed after 2 p.m.
on Saturday, May 25 for the
dedication of the Lenfest Center
for the Performing Arts:

Parking area by the A-wing at
Gaines Hall.

Upper and lower parking lots
behind the gym.

Lot A pool entrance at gym.
Parking on d-hall side of Wash-
ington Street.

Alternate parking may be found
in Woods Creek, faculty parking,
or the corral.

This will be for Saturday, May 25
only.

New Handbook

The 1991-92 Student Handbook is
now being compiled. Any new
student organizations should noti-
fy Bernadette Kempton or leave
an entry consisting of a short
description of the organization and
the names of its leaders in the
Student Handbook box outside the
Dean of Students’ office in Payne
Hall.

Big Poem

The International Society of Poets
is accepting poems for the ‘‘Wor-
Id’s Largest Poem for Peace.”’
The document is expected to be
longer that seven football fields
and will be presented to the Sec-
retary General of the United Na-
tions in August. To be part, send
an original poem (20 lines or
less) to: World’s Largest Poem,
P.O. Box 627, Owings Mills,
Maryland 21117,

Ariel Winners

The Ariel's literary contest win-
ners are:

Prose, John McWhirter, ’91
‘‘The Promise’

Poetry, Alison Bell, '91

‘‘Alone Community Cemetery’’
Art, David Phillips, '93

Cubist Painting

Want Roomie

Do you know anyone who needs
a place to live winter/spring term
next year? How about a three-
bedroom house on campus. Please
call Kimberly Gladysz at 464-
5472.

Cable 9

Cable 9, the Washington and Lee
TV station, is opening up its
programming schedule this Sep-
tember. The station is meant to
the benefit the school and school
organizations as well as be a
working journalism laboratory. If
your organization is interested in
a TV show, contact Professor De
Maria at 463-8436.

Lawyer Award

Law professor Judith A. McMor-
row will be presented with a
Distinguished Faculty award from
the Virginia Women Attorneys
Association Foundation tomorrow
at an awards ceremony in Lewis
Hall. The VWAAF presents four
such awards each year statewide
to recognize outstanding faculty
members at accredited Virginia
Law Schools. McMorrow _ has
taught law here since 1988.

New Sbar

Think you’re funny? Well here’s
your chance to prove it. The
Ring-tum Phi is looking for two
hilarious humor columnists to
write a monthly column for this
esteemed publication. Interested?
Call Josh Manning at 463-2397 or
Rick Peltz at 464-5518.

No Notes

Given that this is the last Ring-
Tum Phi of the year, we are no
longer accepting Gencral Notes.
The first regular issue of next
year is scheduled for September
12. Please feel free to submit
your information at that time.
Have a great summer.

 

 

 
    

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

 

TALKBACK

What will you miss the most
about W&L?

 

 

Charles F. ‘Murph’

Murray,
Director of Security -— ‘‘I’ll MD —

miss the people around here, the Murph.”’
students and everybody. But I
won't miss these late nights, fool-
ing around with these parties, and
parking... It’s what I’ve been do-

ing for almost 33 years.”’

Todd Pearce, ’91, Mount Airy,
**Murph.

 

 

 

Definitely CT ces

 

 

 

Chris Smith, 91, Chevy Chase, MD and Ian Shupack ’91, Weston,
“Cold beer, good women, big parties, and the memories....”’

Tammi Simpson, ’91, Nashville,
TN --- ‘‘The Colonnade and all
my friends.”’

 

Professor Buford §. Stephenson,
German Department ‘*Two
words: my students,’’

 

 
 

NEWS

Library to
go hi-tech

By Sarah Drain
Staff Reporter

 

 

Innovative Interfaces, a
automation company,

ize the

library
will computer-
undergraduate and = law
libraries over the summer with about
$450,000 in hardware and software.

Head Librarian Barbara Brown
Said the automated system ‘‘will
change the way we use the collec-
tion.”’

The libraries had not earlier pur-

sued an automated system because
““we weren't ready to do it yet,’’ said
Brown said.

Washington and Lee examined

other schools’ automated library sys-
tems, particularly ones by Innovative
Interfaces, such as at Georgetown
University Law School and the Uni-
versity of Virginia Law School.

The criteria for choosing a system
was based on the question: ‘‘How
easy will it be for students to use the
system in the middle of the night,
when no one will be there to help?”’
Brown said.

Access to the online catalog will
be available through 83 staff and
public computer terminals in the
undergraduate library, its branches,
and the law library. Eventually, any
computer on the campus network will
be able to access the system.

CADET

from page 1

 

 

ing to withhold Milner’s degree.

Milner and his attorneys returned
to court Monday, asking the judge to
force VMI to present Milner with his
diploma.

U.S. District Judge James Turk
granted a restraining order, barring
VMI from withholding the degree.

“Give the degree to him now,
then you can go ahead and appeal if
you want,’’ Turk said.

Milner, ranked 12th in a graduat-
ing class of 250, received a United
States Air Force commission Tuesday.
He plans to join the Office of Special
Investigations.

      
        
 
 
 

  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

 

 

Alums

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

 

Two Washington and Lee :
alumni who served in operations LJ Lit:
Desert Shield and Desert Storm nia
say that while conditions were
rough, knowledge of support on

the home front kept them going.

Lt. Cliff Deal, ’89, and Lt. Jon
Missert, °88, are both members of
the Army 82nd Airborne Division,
which was the first unit of ‘U.S.
troops deployed to Saudi Arabia
after the Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait.

Deal and Missert,
an apartment near Fort Bragg,
N.C., said they were watching
television at about 10 p.m. when
the call came.

‘*They said to come in and that
was the last time we saw _ the
apartment’ for eight months, Deal
said. ‘‘My parents came in [later]
and there were still glasses in the
sink and food on the table.’’

The division was flown to
Dhahran in eastern Saudi Arabia
and a few days later took up de-
fensive positions at Al Jubail near
the Kuwaiti border, part of the
“line in the sand’’ drawn by
President Bush.

According to Missert,
were stationed on the
wailing for ‘‘the hordes which
never materialized’? until the end
of September. Then, because armor
and artillery units had _ been
summoned to positions on the bor-
der, the 82nd pulled back.

While Missert was. stationed
around Dhahran to defend the
allied forces’ secret air base, Deal
was sent to Abqaiq, an hour west
of Dhahran to defend oil refineries
against terrorist attack, he said.

Missert said the troops spent
their free time playing cards, writ-

who share

 

they
border
desert was ‘‘a little better chow,”’
Deal said. Other than that, he said
it was ‘‘business as usual.”’

Once the air war against Iraq
began on Jan. 16, the troops began
gearing up for a ground offensive.
Deal said that while the likelihood
of ground war may have been
‘“‘debated in the newspapers,’
there was never any doubt to the
troops that they would be used.

On Feb. 23, Deal’s battalion
led the westernmost coalition
forces over the border into Iraq at
ing letters, and playing sports. the outset of the ground war.
Deal said the men ‘‘lived for mail Because the area had _ been
call. You could tell each day who ‘‘pounded”’ by artillery during ‘the
got mail and who didn’t.’’ night, Deal said there ‘‘wasn’t a

Deal said he spent time reading lot there.”’
a book on Arab history that was Deal said support = from
sent to him by W&L chemistry American citizens, both at home
professor Dr. Lisa Alty. and in the Middle East, was
The only difference between  ‘‘incredible.’’
Christmas and any other day in the Deal, who arrived back in the

tell tale of war

 

2nd Lt. Cliff Deal, 89, and 1st Lt. Jon Missert, ’88

U.S. on March 31 and Missert,
who got back on April 2, said
coming home was a memorable
and moving experience.

On the flight home, Deal’s
plane made a surprise stop in
Bangor, Maine.

“We figured it was just a
routine stop,’’ said Deal. ‘‘But the
whole town was out there with
banners and flags. Then they
played the ‘Star-Spangled Banner’
and I was in tears.”’

Deal said that after coming
home ‘‘it was hard to get used to
everything being so green. I was
used to everything being brown
and flat.”’

In summing up the whole
experience, Deal said, ‘‘The end
feeling was that we were the

baddest country on the planet.
There was no way they could have
beaten us.”’

 

 

LOW PRICES
EVERY DAY:

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

Holly Farms
Whole Fryers

a

Tew Dy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jumbo
Vidalia
Onions

 

 

 

Students plan trips :
to the Old World

pass which allows them to travel on
trains in most European countries for
a fee of $560.

‘Traveling by Eurail is ideal for
students because it gives you com-
plete flexibility,’’ John Buchanan
said.

Youth hostels will also provide
for an economical place for the trav-
elers to stay at each destination.

 

By Maureen Levey
Staff Reporter

When one thinks of an ideal place
to spend a summer, Europe many
times comes to mind. Europe’s his-
tory, culture, beauty and mystique
will draw several Washington and
Lee students and faculty in the up-
coming weeks for a little work and a Seniors Ed Wilson and Mark
lot of play. Lotruglio plan to backpack through

Jennifer Noble, a junior Spanish Europe this summer and travel by
anc Economics major, will study in Eurail. They will spend six and a
Madrid for seven wecks this summer half weeks going from England all
through an East Tennessee State the way to Austria.
program. Senior Eric Mutz will travel simi-

She will take an art class at the larly but through the countries of
Prado Museum and a Spanish civili- Spain, France, Italy, Germany and
zation and culture course. She ap- Turkey with two of his friends. He
plied for the program earlier this year thinks the trip will be appropriate for
and will receive credits for her this summer.
studies. ‘Our age is the perfect time to

“Tam looking forward to travel- visit some of the more distant cities
ing through Spain and enhancing my I may never get back to again,’’ he
Spanish,’’ Jennifer said. said.

Several Pi Kappa Alpha seniors Professor Follo of the German
planned a two month, post-graduation Department said he anxiously awaits
excursion throughout at least ten his ninth consecutive summer trip to
northern European countries. the Alps.

Judson Blazek, Michael He plans to read German and
Danzansky, Jeffrey Woodland, Doug- study plants and animals to enhance
las Denby, Richard Perry and John his knowledge as a professor and as

Buchanan each purchased a Eurail the Outing Club Coordinator.

GRADS

from page 1

 

“Most of all I will miss being in unfortunate degeneration of conserva-
the middle of the Shenandoah Val- tive opinion, i.e., there’re more liber-
ley,’’ Hunt said. als,’’ senior John Miller said.

In contrast to such sentiments, ‘I think most of the new profes-
several students fear the changes they sors have shown they’re not thinking
believe W&L has undergone during along the same lines as W&L tradi-
their four years here. tionally has,’’ Hunt said.

‘It seems to me that one of the Senior Richard Perry summarized
biggest changes has been in the make the complaints of many seniors.
up of the student body,’’ EC Presi- ‘‘When I entered as a freshman, it
dent Tom Hatcher said. was a Mice, conservative student

‘The students that come in each body,’’ Perry said. ‘‘Now we have a
year seem really concerned with bunch of Eurofags.
studying and not at all with enjoying ‘First of all, we have a new $10
the rest of the W&L environment,’’ million art center; secondly, we have

Duwel said. a new bistro in town; and finally,
Many seniors also expressed con- there are a bunch of freshman walk-
cern over an ideological shift of ing around with long hair and earr-

students and faculty to the left.
‘Basically,

ings — and they’re not girls,’’
said.

Perry
I’ve witnessed the

 

Borden American
Singles

1°9

White Rain
Products

Assorted

..
15 Oz.

 

 

 

 

 

  

Ice Milk Or

7 Breyers
Ice Cream

, B00

 

 

 

 

 
 

Twelve - 12 Oz. Cans - mee
Coke Classic,
Diet Coke

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through May 28, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, May 28, 1991. In Lexington Stores Only,
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Food Stamps.

ae saeieaenil

 

 

 

eee ne

* on
so
ev

fai

gall
as

an

wl
sv

* Fe

a

he
a Wi

“ba
na

*su

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

NEWS
Murph’ to

 

Seven profs
will retire

   

|

WhRa

step down

V&L Security Director

stires after 32 years

=
’ Alisha Johnson
aff Reporter

After more than 32 years of lurking behind bushes
d stalking unauthorized vehicles, Charles ““Murph’’
urray will retire from his position as Washington and
e's Director of Security at Washington and Lee.

“‘That’s a joke here around the office,’’ Director of
munications Brian Shaw teased. ‘‘Murph has retired
ery year for the past five years.’’

This time however, Murph is not joking. Michael
sung from Rollins College will replace Murph as
rector of Security in July.

‘I’m going to miss all this, but when you get old age
| you, you have to think about being able to do
mething on your own and not having to worry about
erything,’’ Murph said.

Born in Lexington, Charles Murray moved with his
mily to Lynchburg when he was ten. He attended
mchburg High School, now called E.C. Glass. Shortly
ler graduation he joined the Marine Corps and was
signed to a cruiser stationed in the Mediterranean.

After a few years of patrolling North Africa, Sicily,
d southern Italy, the young Marine was stationed in
rginia. In 1945 Charles Murray returned to Lexington
here he settled down and married his longtime
yeetheart, Marita Frenche Mays.

Murray served as Lieutenant of the Lexington Police
ce for more than ten years before coming to W&L as
roctor,’’ or overseer, of the university property. It was
re that Murray would find his life’s calling and here he
ould lose the name Charles Murray forever.

In 1962 Bob McHenry, a W&L alumnus and
sketball and lacrosse coach, who invented the nick-
me that would follow Murray for the rest of his life.

“‘He started that ‘Murph’ stuff,’’ Murph said. ‘‘The
idents just heard everybody calling me that, so they
arted picking up on it. I even put it on my license
ate,”’

“It’s one of those rare one-word names--the kind that
comes so familiar that whenever someone says it,
eryone at Washington and Lee and most everyone in
-xington knows immediately to whom the speaker is
ferring,’’ Shaw wrote in the November/December 1987
sue of the Alumni Magazine.

From issuing parking tickets to investigating rashes of
eft and vandalism, Murph has always managed to keep
reast of what is happening on campus. Last month the
ynchburg Chapter of the Alumni Association presented
m with a plaque, acknowledging his competent service
id ‘‘ubiquitous and comforting presence’’ at W&L. for
ore than three decades.

 
 
      

known to

 

SON 4 Aeon | INC

Fe i 43 ‘

ag

#4

Charles ‘Murph’ Murray

Washington and Lee’s Director of Security and honorary alumnus Charles Murray, affectionately
students and faculty as ‘Murph,’ will retire after 32 years. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

‘Virtually nothing happens on the campus or at the
fraternity houses without Murph catching wind of it,”’
Shaw said. ‘‘To call Murph ubiquitous is an understate-
ment. Back in the 1970s, the Phi once reported that
Murph was sighted in three different places at the same
time on the same party night. He was, and is,
everywhere. Or so it seems.”’

But everybody knows that a 69-year old person
cannot try to be everywhere at the same time. Everyone
except Murph.

“T don’t act like a 70-year-old man,’’ said Murph,
who will celebrate his birthday on November 22.
Murph said alumni have visited W&L and commented
that, although everything from the students to the ap-
pearance of the campus has changed, Murph is always
the same.

What does Murph plan to do with all the spare time
that accompanies retirement?

‘IT guess I’m going to have to find some hobbies,”’
Murph said. ‘‘I plan to be here [at W&L] more than al

home,’’ Murph said. ‘‘I’m not going to sit around the
house for 24 hours. The Dean asked me about working

a couple days a week.”’
Murph said he also looks forward to being able to

. The

 

 

 

Fast

 

 

 

ro

Lane

 

 

 

   

   

 

COLOR PIN “A

— Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ‘ways to win money. | :
You do not t need to bea League bowler to bowl! .

 

 

 

 
   
  
   
  
    

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

 
 
 

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

   
 

 

US HWY - 11 North

   

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

 
     

 

spend more time with his wife, Marita.

‘*After 47 years of marriage, I don’t know how she’s
put up with me,’’ Murph said in deep reflection.
Murph said that he will always cherish the memories he
has of his 32 years at W&L. According to Murph, his
most memorable moments are when the Lynchburg
Chapter presented him with a plaque for his expertise in
law enforcement and for his ability to effectively relate
to colleagues and collegians, and when he became an
honorary W&L alum in 1988.

‘I’m real proud of my awards,’’ Murph said. ‘‘When
Norwood Morrison presented me with that plaque, I
didn’t say a word. I told him afterward that the reason

I didn’t say anything is that I didn’t want them to see a’

grown man cry. And that’s just what. I would have
done.”’

Murph also said that he will always remember the
friendships that he has made, past and present, among the
student body.

“I’m going to miss all the togetherness with the kids at
this school, girls and boys, and I’ll miss all the people
I’ve been working with...but I’ll be back!’’

  
    

for all student printing needs

  
    
   

  
   
    

LEXINGTON’S

$5

L Wy ITA

 

By Sarah Drain
Staff Reporter

 

Quick ~ Inexpensive ~ Easy Parking
Quality Quick Print, Ink.

~ Résumés, Invitations, Flyers,
Programs, Posters, Fax, ... ~

214 South Main Street +» (703) 463-9232

ONLY 8¢ COPY

OFF ANY
SERVICE WITH
THIS AD

Seven treasured Washington and Lee professors will
soon become glowing memories when they retire at the

end of this school year.

Jay D. Cook, Jr., professor of accounting; James
Keith Shillington, professor of chemistry; Buford S.
Stephenson, professor of
German; Henry Sharp,
Jr., professor of mathe-
matics, Sidney M.B.
Coulling, professor of
English; Milton Colvin,
professor of politics; and
C. Westbrook  Barritt,
professor of romance
languages, are retiring.

All retiring —_ pro-
fessors are tenured.
Several of the professors
plan to pursue personal
interests in their extra
time.

 

 

 

 

Dr. Keith Shillington
Barritt will continue his involvement in Habitat for
Humanity, as well his hobby with guns and antiques,
Dean of the College John W. Elrod said. Sharp retired at
the end of winter term and immediately traveled to
England. Coulling has been on leave spring term to study
at Oxford University.

Some of the retirees
have been involved in the
university’s phase retire-
ment program. Phase
retirement allows profes-
sors to teach half-time
for two to four years
before retirement. While
the professor’s work load
decreases, a new faculty
member is hired and
integrated into the depart-
ment.

At retirement, a cita-
tion is prepared by each
retiring professor's de-
partment. The citation chronicles the retiring professor's
career and includes anecdotes. The citation is read to the
faculty members and included in the faculty meeting’s
minutes.

Retiring professors are also presented a W&L chair
that includes a plaque on the back with the professor’s
name, rank, and years of service. In addition, President
Wilson will pay homage to the retiring professors by
mentioning them in his commencement address, Dean El-
rod said.

 

Prof. Milton Colvin

 
 
    

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

Nationwide is on your side

 
   
  

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

Agent
203 South Main Street

Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

 
     
   

cudiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House
DENON SONY

  
   
 

  
  
   
    
  

    

ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CWD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

       
     
       
   
   
       

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

mune

A MORE CREATIVE APPROACH

Regular glass

Diploma Special $59.95

Includes 4 moulding choices
Drymounting of diploma

Your choice of mat color with V-groove
Ribbons added if desired

Hours: Monday - Saturday 10 — 5:30 om

4 East Washington St. Lexington, VA 24450 (703)464-6464

     
       
   
    
    

MasterCard

     
  
 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

 

Phi honors

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

For most teams at Washington
and Lee, 1990-91 was a very
successful year. In the spring,
four teams competed for NCAA
Championships. Throughout the
year, six teams won Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Champi-
onships, and 12 teams finished
with records .500 or better.

Seniors Shawn Wert and Clark
Wight each had standout years for
four successful teams. For their
exploits, they have been named
The Ring-tum Phi Athletes of the
Year.

In the fall, Wert was the
mainstay of the ODAC champion
women’s cross country team
before tendinitis sowed her down.
Wert was the top W&L finisher
against Mary Washington (23:33),
Lynchburg (22:19) and Eastern
Mennonite (21:04).

“‘At the beginning of the year
I was running the best I had in
my life,’’ she said. ‘I got tendi-
nilis in the middle of the season,
but I ran through it, with some
help from Advil. Towards the end
of the season I wasn’t able to hit
my peak speed.”’

For Wert, it was hard work
over the summer in expectation of
some tough competition that led
to her early success.

“I trained real hard over the
summer because I knew we'd be
facing some tough competition,
both in practice and in meets,’’
she said. ‘‘As a team, we knew
we were going to be good. We
all did a lot of intense training."’

And the hard work paid off in
W&L’s first ODAC title.

‘We worked together, trained
hard, and it all paid off,’’ she
said. ‘It was a lot of fun despite
all the training. We were a close
knit team.”’

Over the winter, Wert ex-
changed her running shoes for a
lacrosse stick, and in the spring
led W&L to its most successful

 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Shawn Wert moves in a game last year. Wert, along with

Clark Wight, was named The Ring-tum Phi Athlete of the Year.

women’s lacrosse season ever.

The Generals finished 10-6 on
the season, losing to nationally
ranked Roanoke 8-7 in the ODAC
semifinals. Wert was the team’s
top goal scorer with 26 and sec-
ond leading scorer overall with 33
points. For the second straight
year, she was named to the all-
ODAC first team.

“‘T started slow, but I eventu-
ally started scoring at getting

more assists,’’ she said. ‘‘I felt
like I was in groove with every-
one. We had a tremendous sea-
son.”’

In the fall, Wight was a main-
stay on W&L’s football team that
finished the year with four wins
in its last five games to finish S-
5. Wight was seventh on the team
in tackles with 58 and second
with four interceptions.

In W&L’s 21-7 upset win on
Homecoming against Hampden-
Sydney, Wight recorded eight
tackles, including a touchdown
saving tackle. He also had two
interceptions, one of which came
in the end zone.

‘‘We had some tough losses at
the beginning of the year,’’ he
said. ‘‘We had some big wins
over Hampden-Sydney and Guil-
ford. It was one of those seasons
where everyone committed every-
thing they had to the team and
worked hard every day.’’

In the spring, Wight traded his
football helmet for his lacrosse
helmet and his hard work, along
with others, helped W&L enjoy
it’s best season in five years.

In leading W&L to an 11-4
record, its first ODAC title and a
berth in the NCAA Tournament,

Wert, Wight

Wight also eamed the ODAC
Player of the Year honor. But
Wight is quick to point out he
was no more important than any-
one else on the team.

‘*Coach [Jim Stagnitta] worked
us real hard,’’ he said. ‘‘We
didn’t have one person we could
tum to. Everyone picked each
other up. Everyone worked real
hard. We were bummed out to
lose in the playoffs, but we put
that in perspective. We had a
great year.’’

Wight finished the season with
24 goals and 19 assists for 43
points, all career highs. He credits
winning Player of the Year most-
ly to Stagnitta.

‘A lot of my winning Player
of the Year is Coach. He gave
me a lot of confidence,’’ he said.
‘“‘He gave me, and everyone, the
freedom to do what we wanted,
He worked with everyone to
utilize their strong points.’’

Both Wert and Wight have
many memories from their four
years at W&L.

‘For cross country,’’ Wert
said, ‘‘my best memory is win-
ning the ODAC Championship.
When we started out as freshmen,
we had a few good girls, but we
were slow and not very good. But
we've improved. We can now say
we really were good.’’

For lacrosse, Wert’s memory
is more personal.

‘I will remember most getting
voted MVP by my teammates,”’
she said. ‘‘That means a lot to
me, knowing my _ teammates
thought a lot of me to vote me
MVP.’’

For Wight, the memory is not
individual.

‘‘l won’t remember wins and
losses so much,”’ he said. ‘‘I’m
going to remember how both
teams were tight. We had such a
successful year, and I learned a
lot and made a lot of friends. I'll
remember a lot of successful
experiences.”’

 

 

More sports next year

 

The Phi for fall football

Happy Draduation from. .

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal
A large selection of Gift Items

WM. L. HESS, Jr.

 

For Rent
Alone Mill

--- 4 Bedroom House ---
Nice Country Living
Along the River

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)463-2833

 

 

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back*- Giant **

Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

463-7969

 

Ee

Hirst lit

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

 
 
     
 
    

   

 

  

HT Bg
PRA MIC Rg
nea le

CENTURY 21* professionals
nationwide help more peo-
ple find the perfect home
than any other real estate
sales organization. When
you're ready to buy a home.
call a member of the team
that leads.

FOGO REAL ESTATE

Lexington
463-1801

  

Women’s tennis :;
12th in NCAAS-

 

By Phil Spears
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team journeyed to Atlanta last
week and became the first W&L
women’s team — in any sport — ever
to compete in NCAA playoff action.

Despite a twelfth-place finish,
W&L gave several higher-ranked
teams extremely tough matches and
confirmed their new role as one of
the nation’s elite teams and a serious
national championship contender.

On Wednesday, third-ranked St.
Thomas of Minnesota edged the Gen-
erals 6-3 in the opening round.
W&L dropped three tough three-set
matches in the contest.

The Generals points came from
freshman Eugenia Foster at No. 2 and
senior Kathy Leake at No. 4, who
both gained straight set victories in
singles. The No. 2 doubles team of
Leake and senior Kelly Martone gar-
nered the final W&L point in the
match with a three-set victory.

The Generals moved to the conso-
lation round on day two of the tour-
nament where they met 10th-ranked
Vassar College. W&L fell 5-4, again
dropping three three-set matches.
The Generals played Vassar even
through the singles matches. Foster
won easily, and classmates Mary
Nabers and Kim Dickinson won at
Nos. 5 and 6 respectively. W&L’s
lone doubles win came from Leake
and Martone,

On Friday 11th-ranked St. Olaf
defeated the Generals 7-2, bringing
W&L’s season to a close. W&L’s
points came again from Foster in
singles and Leake/Martone in doubles.
Foster won all three of her singles
matches at the nationals without
losing a set. Leake and Martone won
all three of their doubles matches.

The Generals finished the season
with an 18-4 mark ranked No. 12 in
the nation.

Head Coach Cinda Rankin was
extremely pleased with her team’s
first performance in what will hope-

 

 

 

 

 

Jean Stroman

fully become an annual trek to thé
national championships. ’

“It was a great experience,’ " she
said. ‘‘The whole thing was impres*
sive and perhaps a bit overwhelming

for us. We went in as an underdog,
but we played everyone tough and
lost several close, three-set matches
I was thrilled with the performances
of our kids. We had a great year.’”
W&L will say goodbye to the
nucleus of the team for its first few
seasons: seniors Jean Stroman, Leaké
Martone. The trio was been vital in
helping W&L produce a 51-10 record
and two ODAC championships the
past three years. 7
Despite the losses, Rankin is
excited about next season. ‘‘We are
gearing up and getting a tough sched-
ule to get us ready for the kind o
competition we will face in the nas
tionals,’’ she said. ‘‘I think this
year’s team will be the foundation of
many more great teams.” ,
Stroman, W&L’s No.1 player
throughout her career, two-time “
ODAC Player of the Year, and the,
only W&L player ever to compete in
the women’s singles national champi+
onships, competed for her third,
Straight year in national singles play.
Stroman dropped her first round
match but bounced back to post two,
straight- -set consolation round victo-
ries. Stroman’s run ended when shes
was subdued by the No. 6 player in
the country, Cameron Tyler of Sew-*
anee. Stroman finished her career,
with a 62-29 singles mark.

LEE HI RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Route 11 North

Open 24 Hours §

BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME

 

FE aoe

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(703)463-5988 ,

PPV PVLPVLPVLPV PVA PVLPV PV LPP AP VAP AP OLPVAP AP OPAPP r

 

Beatty Mill
--- 4 Bedroom House ---
Close to Town

Put your trust
in Number One.

 

 

jenna
f Contury Rev its shale Cot pat aie

 

haw al tha '
t ACH OFFICE IS INDE PENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED

 

 

 

 

The W&L Stamp

1749 ) WASHINGTON ane Leno EE UNIVERSITY 1949

Herring Real Estate
41 S. Main St. 463-7314

K & W Office Equipment

Wishes all W&L grads a bright future!

 

 

    
  
   
  
   

To The
Class of 1991

 

 

Scott No. 982

 

 

This stamp, issued in 1949, makes a great momento of Washington and
Lee. Or a nice touch used (with 26* additional postage) on graduation
announcements,

 

 

We have a large stock of mint stamps and of first day covers which
were cancelled in Lexington on the day of issue.

Today's Need For

Tomorrow's Growth QD Teleflora’

rsofrl

Singles 25°
Plate Blocks(4) $1.25
Full Panes (50) $10.50
First Day Covers $1.00 to $3.25

fee

florist to The Homestead

eens |

Last Nelson
(703) 463-1620 | Special Lealnaton, Vo. 30000 =
7 —" CRAFTS PLUS, INC. (703) 463-9641
11 E. Nelson Street lates 9
Lexington, VA 24450 Soe GAMES, HOBBIES AND CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Monday - Saturday 10-5

31S. Main St., Lexington

 

  

463-3355

 

 

a

 
SPORTS

Coach of the Year goes toHathorn

Initiator of first women’s soccer and lacrosse teams claims honor

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

Janine Hathorn had never built
an athletic team from scratch
before. But during the 1987-88
school year at Washington and
Lee she started building two.

In the fall she started up
W&L’s first women’s soccer
team, and in the spring she went
to work on the first women’s
lacrosse team.

The first-year results were not
outstanding (soccer finished with
a 2-8-3 record while lacrosse,
playing an exhibition schedule in
its inaugural season, ended at 4-
7), but the new head coach had
the ball rolling.

Signs of Hathorn’s skill at
developing new teams began to
show in the fall of 1988 when
she led the soccer team to a
fourth-place finish in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Tegular-season standings. That
season she was voted ODAC
Coach of the Year.

And last spring her lacrosse
team finished second in the
ODAC. This year’s story had an
even more successful ending.

After another year of hard
work and dedication, Hathom
guided each team to its best sea-
son ever.

The 1990 soccer team reached
the championship of the ODAC
tournament for the first time,
where it fell to top-seeded Roa-
noke in a game decided after 12
penalty kicks. The team’s final
mark of 11-6 (5-2 in the ODAC)
provided the first winning record
in W&L women’s soccer history.

On the lacrosse side, the Gen-
erals finished at 10-6, (5-2 in the
ODAC), setting a record for vic-
tories and reaching the ODAC
semifinals for the second straight
year, where they too lost to Roa-
noke by one goal. W&L went 9-

 

 

 

 

 

Jan Hathorn
2 in its last 11 games, and of its
six losses, five were to teams
ranked in the top 15 in the na-
tion,

For her achievements, Hathorn
is The Ring-tum Phi Coach of the
Year.

“She certainly deserves it,”’
said senior Shawn Wert, a two-
year all-ODAC lacrosse player.
‘*She’s very dedicated to women
athletics in general, and she’s
worked long and hard to get
W&L’s women athletics off the
ground.”’

Part of Hathorn’s success
formula lies in her ability to
increase the performance level of
her players. :

“I never played lacrosse be-
fore I came to W&L,”’ said se-
nior Melinda Conkling. ‘‘But I
took [Coach Hathorn’s] lacrosse
gym class in the fall term of my
freshman year, and in the spring
I tried out for the team and made
it. I went from knowing nothing
to starting my junior and senior
years, and that says a lot about
her as a coach.

“She has a great understand-
ing of the game, and through that
she is able to teach players, and
teach them well.’’

‘‘She’s a great coach,’’ said
sophomore Lisa Dowling, a sec-
ond-team ODAC selection for this
year’s lacrosse team. ‘‘She’s
worked really hard to get us to
the level we reached.”’

“We've come a long way

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

since my freshman year,’’ noted
junior Ashley Hurt, a three-year
letterwinner in soccer, in reference
to 1988s 7-9 record.

Effective at developing — as
well as recruiting — talent, Hath-
om is also adept at steering it
down the right road.

‘She put our talent into some-
thing that works well together,”’
Wert said. ‘*‘We owe our winning
to her. Talent alone is not going
to do it. She molded and directed
oe

The coach, however, is quick
to deflect a lot of credit back to
her players.

‘The athletes I coach are very
hard working,’’ Hathorn | said.
‘They have heart, desire and a
positive type of pride. Both teams
want to be known as a good
team. They have talent and they
want to win. I take that and direct
them.

“But it’s a 50-50 deal. They
have to go out and do what is
asked of them. I’ve been success-
ful because of the quality of
student I get to work with.’’

According to Hathom, this
year, and the three previous years,
are the foundation for future
success.

‘*We had our most successful
season [in soccer],’’ she said.
‘‘Now the challenge is being able
to continue our new-found level
of success. Within two years we'd
like to be one of the regional
teams to beat.

‘With lacrosse, we're right
around the corner. In three or
four years we should be consid-
ered nationally for the toum-
ament.”’

Hathom acknowledges that
these are lofty goals, but said she
would not feel bad if the bottom
drops out.

“I wouldn’t be disappointed if
we didn’t win, but gave our all
and enjoyed ourselves. My great-

est task is to keep [the game] fun
and keep [the players] coming out
with enthusiasm if we're losing.’’

This year’s success is certainly
nothing new for Hathorn. Before
coming to W&L, Hathom had
five successful years at Denison
University, where she was the
North Coast Athletic Conference
Coach of the Year in field hockey
in 1984, and in lacrosse in 1987.
She coached 12 All-Americans at
Denison — nine in lacrosse and
three in field hockey.

Hathorn also led the Denison
lacrosse team to five conference
titles. Her 1983 team finished
sixth and her 1984 team third in
the Division III U.S. Women’s
Lacrosse Association National
Tournament, while her 1985,
1986, and 1987 teams were eighth
in the NCAA Division III Nation-
al Tournament.

‘*I wanted to try my hand at
starting both [the soccer and
lacrosse] programs. It was a very
exciting proposition [to come to
W&L],’’ Hathorn said of her
decision to leave Denison.

“I didn’t fully know what I
was getting into until I was in the
middle of it. This was quite a
new experience because the teams
at Denison had been good for
years. But coming from a suc-
cessful program was definitely a
great learning experience.”’

Now, the two programs Hat-
horn has built will someday pro-
vide another learning experience
for the next challenge that catches
her attention.

“It’s her fourth year as coach
here and she’s finally getting
results,’’ Conkling said. ‘‘She just
loves the game so much and she
conveys that to the players.’’

‘I do love what I’m doing
and I feel blessed in that way,”’
Hathorn said. ‘‘It’s been wonder-
ful. I wouldn’t trade it for any-
thing, either.’’

 

 

RACKET FOR SALE ..

Wilson pro-file, 3.6 racket for sale.
Call 463-2134 or 463-5598

 

  
  
      
 
     
     
  
     
       
         
       
   
 
       
  
 
 
 

   

Great W&L
Summer-Wear!

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

SENIORS:
We Have
Graduation ‘91

T-Shirts

‘LONE lsanoas
SALE: LAX SHORTS

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Harb’s)
464-3000

 
 

r

) <a

SH

ee be

EEE) RNR CS A 6) RR RTE RRR) RMR) SERIE > ARERR REE |

E FIXERS

“a W Instant$hoe Repair --- at He Rate At De | .
S e can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

( 3 West Nelson St., Lexington

464-6666

RE SE AUD: REED 1 LR GARR a) RMN) SER | BERR 3 ERB

 

   

Please call Dr. Lombard

Apartments/Cottages/House
For Rent

An understanding landlord, less than 20 minutes from
campus. Heating included. $175 to $700/month, with a 25%
Discount to students with a 3.25 GPA or better.

     
   
        

(703)925-2264

(703)377-6638 |

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

te bp fe bp bp fo bp hp be fp bp bp bp hn be bn bn bp hn bn be bo be bn he he be ban ha an aarp

 

POO O OOOO CCC CCOOOCOCC CSCS

POGGIO GIES SPST CEC SSCP PCTS CCC CS EEC C EEN

RENTAL PROPERTIES
4

- 101 N. Randolph St. Conditional use permit for five stu-
dents, Renovated in 1987. Close to campus. $900/month

+ Many other 2-5 bedroom houses and apartments

Security Management, Inc.
464-4832

 

A Mi Mn Mi hi Mi Mi hn MN Ni Mant he hh A hp tt

DEAVERS ALLEY

Pa Babb hn tn tn Ma ha hn Ma a tn ha a tt

 

POOODP DDO DD DDD IODIDE FEPSD

Summer Jobs - $10/Hour To Start

Generals seventh after two
rounds in NCAA golf meet

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

After two days of competition at
the NCAA Division III Golf Champi-
onships, the Washington and Lee
Generals find themselves in familiar
territory.

W&L moved into seventh place in
the 22-team field by totaling the
third-lowest round of the day at the
Firethorn Golf Club in Lincoln, Neb.
W&L finished seventh in last year’s
NCAA Tournament.

W&L’s second day total of 314
came after a first-round 320 which
placed W&L 15th. Junior Jay Mc-
Knight led the charge with a second-
round 75.

Juniors Cliff Burrow and Brad
Thoburn also shot sub-80 for the

Generals. Burrow’s 77 was a carecr-

best and came in just his second
competitive round of the year. Tho-
burn shot 79 for the second straight
day.

“On Tuesday, junior Clay Thomas
shot 79 to lead the W&L scoring.
Both Thomas and Thoburmn were All-
Americans in 1990.

W&L is 30 strokes off the pace
set by defending champion Methodist,
who leads the way with a two-day
total of 604, Gustavus-Adolphus
(613), Ohio Wesleyan and Cal. State-
San Bernadino (618), Wittenberg
(625), and Allegheny (627) follow,
and W&L is seventh at 634.

UC-San Diego and Knox (635)
and Redlands (637) round out the top
10. W&L’s seventh place finish in
1990 equalled its best finish ever al
the NCAA Tournament. Play contin-
ues through Friday.

Meadows, MacNaughton
win men’s tennis honors

 

By Phil Spears
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team has a tradition of excel-
lence in the post season. W&L won
the team title in 1988. In 1989, John
Morris won the individual singles and
doubles titles. In 1990, Morris and
senior Bill Meadows won the dou-
bles.

In 1991, Meadows and freshman
Rob MacNaughton looked to extend
W&L's championship string last
week-end in Claremont, Ca.

Meadows, who succeeded the 6-
foot-6 Morris as W&L’s top player in
1991 had big shoes to fill. Maybe too
big. Meadows, who was ranked as
high as fourth individually this sea-
son, closed his distinguished career
by reaching the quarterfinals.

After tallying straight-set victories
in the first two rounds, Meadows —
ranked 15th entering the toum-
ament — bowed out of singles play to
3rd-ranked and eventual national

champion Lewis Miller of Kalama-
zoo. Meadows’ run to the quarterfi-
nals earned him All-American status.

 

 

Meadows received further recogni-
tion while at nationals. He was a-
warded the Arthur Ashe Sportsman-
ship Award for outstanding sports-
manship and contribution to team and
institution.

MacNaughton, the only freshman
competing in individual tournament
play left his mark when he upset
16th-ranked Steve Ivankovich of
Chicago in the first round. Mac-
Naughton’s run was ended by 2nd-
ranked Gavin O’Connell of Emory in
round two.

MacNaughton was named Volvo
Tennis/Rookie of the Year for Divi-
sion III. The doubles team of Mac-
Naughton and Meadows ‘‘got a bad
draw’’ according to Meadows and
were unable to advance past the first
round.

Head coach Gary Franke was
pleased with the individual play.

‘Meadows had a good finish to a
great career here,’’ he said. **Mac-
Naughton had an outstanding fresh-
man year and helped us tum things
around, and we look for bigger and
better things to come.”’

 

 

The Wight move

Senior Clark Wight moves toward the goal against VMI. Wight, the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Player of the Year, was named The Ring-tum Phi Athlete of the Year along with
Shawn Wert. Phi photo by Chris Leiphart.

   

 

 

If you grew up and will be living in the greater Philadelphia, Cen-
tral/Southern NJ, Pittsburgh, Wilmington, Baltimore, D.C., Rich-
mond or Norfolk, VA metro areas,

Call Michael McQuown at (202) 223-3652 for appointment

   
    
 

  
 

 
  
 

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

     
 
  

 

 

 

PARKVIEW

 

THE
Blending modern convenience and traditional values in a new
standard of living.
Eleven four bedroom, two bath apartments, each featuring:

OP) 203 N. Main St.

   

   

In City:

   

  
  
 

    
  
 
 

In County;

Student Rental Houses 4

+29 Hook Ln. 4 Bedroom, appliances, deck and porch, ample parking.

+301 Houston St. 3-4 Bedroom, new appliances, good yard and neighborhood.
+ Timber Ridge, Route 716, 6 miles north. 2 story, 4 bedroom, nice 2 acres, appliances.

* Timber Ridge, Route 727, 7 miles north, 2 story, 3-4 bedroom, 5 acres.

Call Mrs. Colonna at Lexington Management Company,
463-7157 Days or 463-2060 Evenings.

 

   
    
   

 
 

 

 

MMMMM

var ounV nex Copg- qayhicgd-—

PHONE: 463-1712 + FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON
ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE "="

 

—— =

GOOD BYE - GOOD LUCK, AND FOR THOSE LUCKY ENOUGH TO BE
RETURNING THIS FALL, SEE YOU IN SEPTEMBER!
THANKS FOR ALL YOUR BUSINESS.

  
  
   
    
 
   
 

CONVENIENCE
*A short walk to Washington & Lee
#Pienty of paved parking, 10 spaces covered!

eFully-equipped kichens include disnwasner,
disposal and microwave

eCommon laundry room and snack room.
eindividual neat and A/C wiln efficient neat
pumps

COMFORT:

*Eacn unit insulated on ali 6 sides.

*Quiet provided by isolated wall framing, con-
crete sub-floors, wall-to-wall Carpet and the e@x-
tensive insulation

*Double-giazed windows

 

 

Herring RealEstate 41S. Main St.

SECURITY

Steel entrance doors with deadbolts
Full sprinkler system throughout
eSmoke detectors

eAutomatic grounds lighting.

Large, individual, locked basement storage
closets

©24-hour emergency service

STYLE

*Traditional exterior design and details
Six panel doors

*Colonial trim and baseboard

463-7314

 

 

 

 
 

Wé&LIFE
A chat with Charles Neville...

 

By Joei Dyes
Special to The Ring-tum Phi

 

I found Charles Neville alone last
friday evening behind the pavilion
under the trees doing what seemed to
be an odd sort of dance. He was
wearing a pair of army camouflage
pants, a purple Neville Brothers’ Tour
T-shirt and a black beret with a pin
of the ‘‘yin-yang’’ symbol on it.
Slowly, he would bring his left leg
up and turn his right arm out and
then do the reverse with the opposite
limbs. Next, he would rotate his head
and shake his entire slim body as if
erasing every previous movement so
he could start over again.

He did not notice me at first; or
if he did, he simply ignored me. I
thought perhaps he was meditating.
The evening was pleasant and peace-
ful; maybe he was becoming one
with nature. I could dig that.

I decided to set aside my note-
book and tape recorder to flip
through some magazines I had
checked out of the library with arti-
cles about the Neville Brothers. In
People Weekly, there was a picture
of Charles doing his peculiar dance.
The caption called it @’ai chi. When
I looked over at him, he had stopped
and was looking back at me.

“‘Nice t'ai chi (ty chy),’’ I said,
happy to finally have his attention,
trying to impress him.

“T’ai chi (ty chee'),’’ he cor-
rected, smiling.

‘*Thanks.’’ He tuned me out again
and went back into his rain dance.
Well, so much for making an impres-
sion. | flipped through some more
pages and continued to wait.

   

Aaron Neville

The Neville Brothers is comprised
of the Neville siblings, Aaron, 50,
Art, 53, Cyril, 42 and Charles (the
one in bushes kicking the air), 52.

Aaron, a vocalist, is a big dude
with muscles and tatoos all over
visible parts of his body that say
things like ‘‘Mom”’ and ‘‘Aaron.’’ It
threw me a litle that the voice that
can hit high notes that put Michael
Jackson to shame comes from a man
like that.

Art, aside from being the oldest,
is the keyboardist and group leader.
In the illustrations and on stage, he
reminded me of a big teddy bear.
He is credited for setting the family
course.

Cyril, the baby of the family and
the only member who sports dread-
locks, eventually joined brother Art’s
group, the Meters. A_ percussionist
and vocalist, Cyril is thin like Charles
and has a flair for African jewelry
and clothes.

Charles, an accomplished jazz and
rock player, is a saxophone demon.
His performance in the grass was no
indication of what was to .come.
Later on stage, the way his hands
held — no, caressed his saxophone
made me wonder what other talents
they could render.

Within a moment, I decided I had
done enough. After a day of classes,
I had come back to my room, show-
ered (this always wins points), made
myself up and put on one of my
Sunday best. This was enough, I
thought. It had to be. Just remember,
I said to myself, be firm and profes-
sional; don’t take no for an answer.

‘Hello.’ Charles had completed
his business and was approaching me.

‘*Hi!’’ I said, almost too eagerly.
‘“‘Hello. Mr. Neville? My-name-is-
Joei-Dyes-and-I-would-very-much-
like-to-interview-you-for-our-student-
newspaper-would-you-mind-talking-
to-me-for-a-few-minutes?’’

oe

“It’s not authorized,’’ he said.
“This interview has to be cleared
through the office in New York.”’

‘*T've-tried-Mr.-Neville-Honestly!-
All-week-A & M-Records-has given-
me-nothing-but-the-run-around.”’ I
began to rattle off names of people I
had left messages for, who had not
returned any of my calls.

‘‘Okay, okay,’’ he said, climbing
up the steps. ‘‘I don’t want to do
this, but okay.’’ He looked at me and

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

frowned. ‘*You know, if you’re stay-
ing for the concert, you may want to
change. You’ll probably get pretty hot
in there.”

‘T thought if I looked nice, you’d
talk to me,’’ I said, opening my note-
book.

He smiled. ‘You know, I’d talk
to you no matter what you looked
like.’’ I wanted to tell him I liked his
smile. Jt put me at ease. Instead, |
began firing questions.

‘*What’s that you were doing out
there?”’ T asked.

'T'ai chi,"’ he explained. ‘‘It’s a
martial art.”’

“Do you do that to prepare for a
concert?”

‘I do that for me.’’

Charles Neville went on to tell me
about his upbringing, which naturally
included music. ‘‘Music is a part of
life,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s been there since
pre-school and kindergarten. At home,
our grandparents sang spirituals a-
round the house when we were kids.
Our parents performed together. My
mother, Amelia, was a dancer.”’

**You all record albums solo and
as a group,’’ I said. ‘‘You’re all so
talented. Do you go solo because you
need the additional outlet to express
you own abilities?’’

‘‘No,’’ he said, quickly. ‘‘When
we record as the Neville Brothers, the
record company expects all of us to
perform. We all contribute. We all
sing. We all write. We all give.
Music is music. It just flows. That’s
the real appeal of working together
and of watching us work together.
You’ll see.... Of course, we all do
our own thing, too.’’

‘*We’ve always played music,’” he
continued. ‘‘Art and Cyril were re-
cording with their group, the Meters.
Aaron was recording. I went to New
York for awhile. Around 1966, my
uncle George Landry, my mother’s
brother, called us together to make an
album. I then decided to move back
home. [After all,] everyone else was
there.’ This Island Records release
of ‘‘Mardi Gras music,”’ titled ‘‘Wild
Tchoupitoulas,’’ was a regional hit,
but the brothers really did not begin
concentrating’ on their music until
1977. Before that, they supported
themselves with odd jobs, said Char-
les. ‘‘Longshoremen, laborers, con-
struction workers, restaurant workers,
truck drivers,’’ he rattled off.‘‘You
name it.”’

   
   

Charles Neville

The Neville Brothers current pros-
perity has been an uphill climb.
Charles says Aaron’s success has
certainly helped the group, which
toured with Linda Ronstadt for three
months last year. The experience
‘introduced us to a wider audience,”’
he said. ‘*‘Black radio stations won’t
play our music because they don’t
consider it black music. Rap and
urban pop get a lot of play. But, not
what we do.”’

‘Well, what exactly constitutes
black music?’’ I couldn’t help but

‘ask this aged question.

“My only definition of black mu-
sic is music played by black peo-
ple,’’ Charles said. ‘‘Big corpora-
tions are interested in money, not
music. Rap is what the kids buy
because that is all they are given to
listen to on the radio. They have
nothing to compare it to.’’

‘‘Our fans are mostly white be-
cause white stations and college sta-
tions play our music,’’ he went on.

In spite of the group’s current
success, they have obviously decided
there is no place like New Orleans.
‘*Art and I still live in the old neigh-
borhood,’’ said Charles. ‘‘Aaron and
Cyril have both moved to the other
side of town. But, anywhere we go
in New Orleans, we'll be near some-
body we know.... Have you ever seen
a Neville Brothers concert?’

‘*No,’’ I admitted.

‘Well, there’s nothing like i',”’ he
said. ‘‘We just get together and jam.
The music just flows. You'i! see.’’

‘Thank you,’’ I said cencluding
cur interview.

‘‘You’re welcome,” he
‘But, trust me. You’ll see.’’

And that I did.

said.

 

   

WEEKLY CALENDAR

May 24 to June 6

FRIDAY, MAY 24

3 p.m.

8 p.m.

W4&L Board of Trustees Meeting. :

MATHEMATICS SENIOR HONORS PRESENTATION: "Hilbert
Spaces and Quantum Mechanics,” H. Todd Pearce, '91.
Room 6, Robinson Hall. Public invited.

PLAY: “Evita,” a musical based on the life of Eva Peron. Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

SATURDAY, MAY 25

1 p.m.

DA
4:30 p.m.
8 p.m.

8 p.m,

6:30 p.m.

W&L Board of Trustees Meeting.

Lenfest Center Dedication.

PLAY: "Evita," a musical based on the life of Eva Peron. Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center. For reservations, call Lenfest Box
Office, 463-8000.

ENGLISH DEPARTMENT AWARDS CEREMONY. Room 21,
Payne Hall.

CONCERT: Applied Music Recital by W&L music students.
duPont Auditorium, Public invited.

W&L HISTORY SPRING SEMINAR: Panel: “Student Life at
WA&L during the late 1950s and early 1960s.” Edward Cc
Atwood, professor of economics and former dean of
student; Charles F. "Murph" Murray, director of security and
university proctor; J. Holt Merchant, professor of history.
Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

A

SENIOR NIGHT: Awards Ceremony, Lee Chapel. Followed by
dinner on Alumni House Grounds.

Undergraduate examinations begin.

ONDAY, JUNE

Undergraduate examinations end; December 1991 degree
applications due.

IUESDAY, JUNE 4

11 am.

12:30 p.m.
2-4p.m.
2-4 p.m.

3 p.m.

8 p.m.

8:45 a.m.

Vi am.

Senior grades due by 9 a.m.

BACCALAUREATE SERVICE: Speaker: Robert L. Shaw, musi:
director emeritus and conductor laureate of the Atlanta
Symphony Orchestra. Front Lawn.

LUNCHEON ON THE LAWN.

PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION. Lee House.

TOURS OF HISTORIC FRONT CAMPUS BUILDINGS.

FINE ARTS SENIOR THESIS PRESENTATIONS/AWARDS
CEREMONY. duPont Auditorium.

FAIR FOOTLIGHT PRODUCTION: "The Last Resort,” a play by
Tom Ziegler. Lenfest Center.For information and
reservations, call 463-5900 (through June 9).

MILITARY COMMISSIONING CEREMONY: Speaker: Col.
Andrew Jackson, Fourth Brigade Commander. Front Lawn
North.

COMMENCEMENT CEREMONY: Speaker: W&L President
John D. Wilson. Front Lawn.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

YOU DESERVE IT

Celebrate Your Graduation at La Matson

Reservations, please
(703) 366-2444

 

 

 

 

 

 
