 

September
 

 

i

Freshman orientation edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 2

 

By Brian Root
Editor

 

Once again, Washington and Lee
has attracted a competitive freshmen
class from across the country and
around the world.

This year’s freshmen come from
44 different states, D.C., Puerto Rico
and six foreign countries, according
to the W&L Admissions Office.

There are about 390 freshmen,
160 women and 230 men. Exact
numbers depend on how many fresh-
men actually came to Lexington this
weekend.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

W&L class of 1994 arrives on campus

Virginia contributed 41 freshmen,
the most of any state, followed by
Texas with 35. The only states not
represented are Alaska, North Dakota,
South Dakota, Rhode Island, Nevada
and Vermont.

Freshmen have also arrived from
Egypt, Italy (which sent two stu-
dents), Kenya, Korea, Norway, Pana-
ma and Sweden.

The freshmen survived a tough,
competitive admissions process. Of
the 3,067 applicants, 958 were ac-
cepted,

The freshman class enters W&L
with some impressive academic cre-
dentials and honors garnered in high

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

Nice Numbers

* 532 of 958 accepted applicants scored over 600 on the verbal

portion of the SAT

* 6 scored between 750 and 800 on verbal portion

* 656 of 958 accepted applicants scored over 600 on math portion
* 48 scored between 750 and 800 on math portion

source: W&L Admissions Office

 

 

school,

According to the admissions of-
fice, 34 incoming freshmen were Na-
tional Merit Finalists and 157 were
members of the National Honor Soci-

 

Thirty-four finished first or sec-
ond in their high school graduating
class. Forty-seven served as student
body president, class president or
vice-president.

Ninety incoming freshmen were

ety.

 

 

 

      

if
"Ts
o/

 

 

So, this is water polo

 

W&L's water polo team traditionally has been successful against Memorial Pool, located in the Warner Center. Please see Page 3 fo
tough competition. The team's matches are held in the Cy Twombley more details about the sport. File photo. |

team captains in high school and 52
were the editor of a campus publica-
tion.

For SATs, the majority of ap-
plicants scored between 550 and 600
on the verbal part of the test, and
between 600 and 650 on the mathe-
matical part.

However, high SAT scores do not
guarantee admission. An admissions
office publication said, ‘‘The infor-
mation provided reflects a statistical
range of standardized test scores for
those students offered admission. An
applicant falling within these ranges,
however, cannot assume admission to
Washington and Lee.’’

SEPTEMBER 1, 1990

For example, 289 of 583 ap-
plicants who scored between 600 and
650 on the verbal section of the SAT
were not accepted.

‘‘The single most important ele-
ment in the Admission Committee’s
review is an applicant’s achievement
in a rigorous college preparatory
curriculum,’’ said the pamphlet.

Accordingly, seventy-four percent
of incoming freshmen have taken
advanced placement courses in high
school.

Because this year’s freshmen class
is smaller than incoming classes in
the last several years, no freshmen
will be living in Gaines Hall.

IFC prepares
schedule for
fraternity rush

 

By Andrew Waters
Associate Editor

 

 

 

Hatcher: EC will be fair and open

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Executive Committee President Thompson
Hatcher, ’91, advocates objectivity and accessi-
bility as themes for this year’s student govern-
ment.

Hatcher presides over the EC, a body of 13
elected representatives which supervises most
student activities and the honor system.

“The EC should not be seen as a prosecuto-
rial board,’’ said Hatcher. ‘‘Our main job with
the honor system is to be objective.

‘‘An honor violation, as far as this committee
is concerned,’’ he explained, ‘‘is a violation of the
student body’s trust. The EC realizes that people

week’s issue of the Phi

NEWS...

funds
Fraternity Renaissance update

Will the Lensfest Center ever be com-
pleted?

An interview with the new Dean of Students
Weekly coverage of the EC, IFC and PHC
W&LIFE...

Production continues on the movie version
of W&L alumnus Thomas Wolfe's novel
Bonfire of the Vanities

Where to go to find fraternity parties now
that Red Square is being renovated

SPORTS...

The W&L football team faces its first game
of the season against Emory

Fall sports preview, also including soccer
and water polo by Jay Plotkin

 

 

What’s coming in next

W&L’s ROTC program faces a cutoff in

make honest mistakes.’’

Hatcher said that the honor system favors the
accused, who are innocent until proven
guilty. He said the EC ‘‘may make mistakes,’’ he
said, ‘‘but we are not going to make mistakes on
convictions,’’

Accessibility is the other key point in Hatcher’s
administration. In addition to maintaining an
open-door policy, he plans to initiate bimonthly
forums at the undergraduate and law campuses
where students may provide constructive criticism
to the EC.

Students should not ‘‘have to wait until an
election to get their points across,’’ emphasized
Hatcher.

Hatcher has been involved in student govern-
ment since he served as freshman class president.

for new sorority

By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

Mitchell, PHC prepare

 

He lost reelection to the class presidency in his
sophomore year but returned to government last
year as the junior EC representative.

In his sophomore and junior years, he helped
organize Superdance, a university-wide fundraiser
to fight Muscular Dystrophy. He has also served
in Kathekon, an alumni-liason organization for two
years.
“I would encourage everyone to get in-
volved,’ said Hatcher. ‘‘That’s the main thing
about W&L; students have virtually every oppor-
tunity to get involved in decision making and
policy making. Seek the vote and make a differ-
ence.”’

The first EC session will begin at 5 p.m., Sept.
10 in the EC Room in the University Center. The
EC holds weekly meetings open to all students.

With the beginning of fraternity
rush just a few days away, members
of the Interfraternity Council have set
the schedule that will dictate the
social lives of about 200 potential
pledges in the next few weeks.

Rush begins unofficially next
Saturday with open contact from 4
p-m. to 7 p.m. after the football game
against Emory; band parties at frater-
nity houses begin at 8 p.m.

‘“‘Open contact means that fresh-
men can do just about anything with
a fraternity,’’ IFC president Goodloe
Lewis said.

Places traditionally frequented
during open contact include fraternity
houses, country houses and Goshen
Pass on the Maury River about 15
miles west of Lexington.

No contact is allowed between
freshmen and upperclassmen Saturday
from 7 to 8 p.m. Later those nights
W&L’s 16 fraternities hold band
parties, but may not supply alcohol
bought by house funds.

Rush officially begins Sunday
with an assembly in Lee Chapel at 1
p-m. followed immediately by open
house sign-up in the Gilliam, Davis,
Baker dorm quadrangle.

At the sign-ups freshmen choose
their nine preferred houses and a
computer randomly matches them up
with a time.

An open house is the first time
rushees meet formally with members
of a fraternity. Rushees spend 6 hours
and 45 minutes over three nights in
coat and tie talking to fraternity
members in nine houses.

Rushees can informally drop by a
fraternity house between 4 and 8 p.m.
Sunday.

Fraternities will conduct three
open houses each night starting at
6:45 p.m. Sept. 10, 11 and 12.
Rushees and fraternity members are

only allowed casual contact -- which
basically amounts to saying ‘‘Hi’’ on
campus, Lewis said -- outside of
open houses those three days.

Preference cards listing the
tushees four favorite houses are due
by 3 p.m Thursday, Sept. 13 in Ev-
ans Dining Hall.

The rest of the day is ‘‘pretty
much a day off,’’ Lewis said.

A computer will match the
freshman lists of favorite fraternities
with the fraternity lists of favorite
freshmen and come up with a sched-
ule of rush dates.

Fraternities will throw parties both
Friday and Saturday night.

The first two rush dates will be
held Sunday, Sept. 16 from 6 to 9
p-m., the next two on Monday night.
Rush dates have the same basic
format as open houses.

Fraternity members can invite any
rushee from the first four rush dates
to the next four rush dates to give
them a ‘‘bid,’’ or an invitation to
join the fraternity.

The Fraternity Renaissance has
made it impossible for sone fraterni-
ties to conduct rush in their houses,
so those affected were assigned alter-
nate locations at random.

IFC vice-president Mike Skarda
said the arrangement has worked out
well.

“IT don’t know that everyone’s
absolutely thrilled but they all know
it was done fairly,’’ Skarda said.

The last week’s activities climax
Friday, Sept. 21 when rushees are
first allowed to ‘‘tear,’’ or join a
fraternity.

If he remains undecided Friday
night, there’s still time during Satur-
day night’s band parties to for the
rushee take the final plunge into
fraternity life.

It all ends Sunday, Sept. 23, when
the new ‘‘social members’’ can grab
some sleep, hit the books and wait
for formal pledging activities to begin
in the winter.

Greek leaders see busy year ahead

 

By Rick Peltz

 

Staff Reporter

 

IFC faces fraternity changes

will take over the titles on most of the fraternity

properties.

Lewis does not, however, want the IFC to be
characterized solely as a police organization.

‘Sororities at Washington and Lee, established in
1989, are organized into the Panhellenic Council, which
has the authority to deal with all matters pertinent to
sororities. Its decisions and statements are subject to
review of the Student Affairs
Committee. All sorority mem-
bers are also members of the
Panhellinic Council. Meetings
are held every Tuesday night.
Its purpose is to promote coop-
eration among all sorority
chapters on campus.’’ a
1990 Student Handbook

Panhellenic President Nancy
Mitchell said the typical sorori-
ty member is active in the
W&L community and believes
joining a sorority will help her
become even more involved -
~ socially, academically and in
the Lexington community.

In addition to her duties as Panhellenic president,
Mitchell, a psychology major, participates in soccer and
the Student Activities Board.

W&L’s three sororities - Chi Omega, Kappa Alpha
Theta and Kappa Kappa Gamma — were colonized in
1989. The national officers of each sorority conducted

 

Nancy Mitchell

 

 

Interfraternity Council President Goodloe Lewis,
*91, foresees a busy year for the IFC as changes to the
physical and social structure of W&L’s 16 fraternities
continue with the Fraternity Renaissance program.

“‘T think the university administration will assume
a much larger role in fraternity affairs,’’ said Lewis,
‘*When they own it, there’s no limit to what they can
do.

“If the guys are perceptive,’’ he said, ‘‘they will
realize that the IFC is going to crack down ... or the
Hill is going to step in.’’

Lewis said the IFC will ‘‘keep the fraternities in
line.’’ Under the Fraternity Renaissance program, W&L

 

‘Public relations can always use improvement,’ he
said. The IFC holds regular meetings with the police
and the community. They also sponsor fundraising
events for charity and encourage philanthropy projects.

‘*We are a liaison between the administration and
the fraternities,’’ Lewis added about the IFC. Lewis
was a junior justice on the IFC last year and headed
the IFC’s role in co-sponsoring Springfest, a student-
oriented weekend of activities in May. He has also
been active in Liberty Hall Volunteers, a Civil War
reenactment group.

‘“‘He will do a great job on the IFC,’ said EC
President Thompson Hatcher. ‘‘He’s not going to play
around.... It’s going to be interesting.’’

 

 

rush that winter, and chapters from other schools helped
the colonies initiate new members. This past winter each
sorority, with the help of a chapter consultant, was on its
own to conduct rush, pledgship and initiation.

The Delta Gamma Rush Team will rush, pledge and
initiate upperclassmen this fall to establish W&L's fourth
sorority charter. DG will also be allowed to offer bids
throughout the year until they reach their chapter total of
70 active members.

Mitchell said the Panhellenic Council has accom-
plished the goals they had set for this year. ‘‘We have

established working chapters and we have finalized our
bylaws and constitutions.’’

Spring Fest, a student-oriented activities weekend and
semi-formal dance, took the place of a mixer last year.
A Panhellenic mixer was not feasible last year because
of the cost, liability and exclusion of the non-Greek por
tion of the campus, Mitchell said.

“Spring Fest was a way to include all Greeks, the
Independent Union, the Minority Students Association and
the International House. It was fun for everyone on
campus, and, hopefully, we'll do it again next year.”’
 

OPINION

ne es

The Phi wants to
hear from you

With this special edition, the staff of The Ring-tum Phi
welcomes all entering students to Washington and Lee.
We wish you the best of luck during your time here.

The articles in this edition were written for freshmen,
exchange students and transfer students. We have not
included any hard news, which we saved for our first
regular issue of the year to be published on the first day
of classes.

Facing days of orientation, you have probably already
realized that although W&L and Lexington are small, a
lot goes on here. When classes start, we hope you will
turn to our newspaper for accounts of campus events and
issues.

The Ring-tum Phi is W&L’s student newspaper. We
operate independently of the journalism department.
Although most of the staff are journalism majors and
some articles double as assignments and Phi stories,
editorial decisions are ours.

We have two major goals. First, we strive to write
objective, fair and accurate stories. As best we can, we
seek to work without bias to produce a paper that meets
or exceeds the standards of professional papers.

Second, we strive to cover all newsworthy events. We
regularly cover the Executive Committee, the
Interfraternity Council, the Panhellenic Council and W&L
athletics. We also cover local politics and police
whenever their work affects the university and its
students.

How close are we to reaching these goals? That is a
question often debated on Thursday evenings, when the
Phi is published and distributed. When you have become
familiar with campus issues and organizations, you may
feel we are far from the mark.

Did we tell both sides of a story? Are the basic facts
correct? Did we miss an important point? Did we unjustly
criticize a student, an administrator, a fraternity or a
campus organization?

We know people are from time to time dissatisfied

with our coverage. This is only natural, since one
function of a newspaper is to bring information and ideas
into the forum of public debate. Occasionally this requires
us to step on some toes and print unpopular ideas and
opinions.

Since few of our readers know what each of the
editors look like, we often hear comments on the paper
from people who do not even realize they are talking to
or near someone on our staff.

We would prefer that when: you feel ‘strongly about.

something we printed, write us. We print all literate.
letters to the editors and we will seriously consider what
you have to say. If you have a grievance, the student
body would be best served if you interject your complaint
into the stream of public discussion.

If you do not have time to drop us a line or you are
not satisfied with our response to a letter, call the Phi
office, stop an editor if you know one of us or come by
our office. We will discuss our editorial decisions and
your comments.

We are striving to be as professional as possible, and
part of being professional is responding to guidance from
our readership. We look forward to hearing from you.

Quote of the week

I got some, but I didn’t get as much as I wanted.
— President George Bush, complaining that he didn’t

receive enough... relaxation during his recent vacation in
Maine.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The, Ring;tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 1, 1990
os Sarees

 

 

 

FEL [FALE TE

2

 

 

 

  

 

 

= ff gj ia

How Ani ssiavs

REALLY WorK

  

|

 

W&L: work hard, play harder

 

MY VIEW
By Chris Baradel

 

Just a few thoughts, observations, recommenda-
tions and requests I thought I’d pass along to the
Class of 1994...

If you can brook the mind-numbing tedium of
the multiple daily lectures that comprise your
orientation, these next few weeks can be some of
the most fascinating and enjoyable you've seen so
far.

Never again will you encounter so many new

people in such a condensed period of time (unless
you join the Army or move to Tokyo), so revel in
the opportunity.
Should you start to feel like a goldfish who’s
been transferred from its bowl to the Pacific
Ocean, don’t sweat it. The best way to pare down
the daunting task of introductions ahead of you is
to begin with the one essential: meeting everyone
on your hall within the first few days. The other
meetings and greetings will take care of them-
selves...

Baptize yourself into the Washington and Lee
culture. Immerse yourself completely in our com-
munity’s traditions and customs, for they have
stood the test of time and will be as in vogue
‘when you. graduate. as they are ‘now. : Be

Some ._W&L’s. more . renowned... conventions,
whose subtleties and nuances you will (hopefully)
acquire during your four years are: the honor code,
the speaking tradition, strong Greek life, close
student-faculty relations and the devotion to the
duality of ‘‘work hard/play hard.’

Undoubtedly you have an intellectual knowledge
of many of these elements of the university’s
culture, now you have the opportunity to know
them as a part of your environment...

Although you probably didn’t come here be-
cause the nightlife of Lexington proper attracted
you, the diminutive size of the town provides for
some imaginative forays. Of course, to find anyth-
ing to occupy your time while you wait for Rush

and open parties to begin, you'll have to be im-
aginative.

Nonetheless, there are some things that can be
considered must-see.

Visit the infamous Lloyd’s of Lexington
(preferably after midnight) for an unforgettable
dining experience and a first-hand, slice-of-life look
at the local populace.

Go to the Hunan Gardens restaurant and see
why it has become overwhelmingly popular with
the undergraduate student body.

Venture up past the athletic fields to the Liberty
Hall ruins for the best view of Lexington (if there
is such a thing) and the campuses of W&L and the
Virginia Military Institute.

 

Immerse yourself completely
in our community’s tra-
ditions...they have stood the
test of time and will be as
in vogue when you graduate
as they are now.

 

Above all, if you can’t keep yourself enter-
tained enough while waiting for Rush to gear up,
console. yourself with the knowledge that it could

- bé’ much, much worse.

You could be a VMI cadet, jogging several
miles per day in the hot sun, with a bad haircut
and no foreseeable prospects for an improvement
of your situation...

One of the best pieces of advice regarding
freshman year I’ve ever heard was: ‘‘go through
the first year to get to the last three.’’ In other
words, the freshman year is a time to experiment
with different interests, both academic and extra-
curricular, so that by the time sophomore year
starts you have a handle on how you want to
approach the final three years.

For example, the first year is a good time to
learn such things as: how much carousing you can
do before your grades fall off to a level that you

(or worse, your parents) feel is unacceptable; what
subject you might want to pursue as a major
course of study; and what clubs and organizations
you want to be a part of.

The best way to find these things out is simple:
Do it all. If Bo Jackson can manage more than one
hobby, so can you. Burn the candle at both ends at
times to find out what you like and can handle.

Pursue every activity that interests you, and
over the course of the year time pressures will
“‘assist’’ you in choosing the ones that are most
enjoyable, interesting and worthwhile.

As you experiment, you will probably
experience some setbacks, some defeats and some
abject failures. Your grades will probably suffer.
But you will be the wiser for having learned who
you are, and you won’t have to spend the next
three years fumbling around trying to find yourself.

Be willing to trade one year for three, and you
might find the bargain worthwhile. I did....

On a most serious concluding note, I ask all of
you to keep in mind the closing remarks of Judge
Rudolph Bumgardner III at Blake Comer’s trial.

He criticized the university for allowing an
“‘uncontrolled environment’’ to exist. He was
correct in calling the hit-and-run death of Mary A.
Scarborough, and resultant coverup, a tragedy and
a ‘“‘low point for an institution known for its
honesty and integrity.’’

Although your class was not here at the time |

this trauma was inflicted upon our community, you

would have to be callous not to imagine the pain ‘

it caused the student body.

Blake Comer is paying for what he did, serving
a sentence in the Rockbridge County Jail. But that
price is nothing compared to the guilt and remorse
he must feel over what has happened.

We have the advantage of seeing his mistake,
and we must learn from his failure. If we don’t,
we are not nearly as smart as we thik we are or
as W&L promotes us to be.

Play hard, indeed, for that is your legacy and
your right. But be smart when you do so. Don’t
drink yourself into a coma, and never, never drive
after drinking.

Speaking Tradition: just do it

 

MY VIEW
By Josh Manning

 

I remember my freshman orientation very well.
Despite all that has happened, it was only last
year. This coming week, you will be confronted
with many new concepts, traditions, indeed a
whole new way of life.

Names will be thrown at you: President Wilson,
Dean Ruscio, Tom Hatcher, and various faculty
advisors, dorm counselors, professors, representa-
tives from every organization under the sun, and a
dozen dorm-mates that you’ll live with for the next
nine months. You'll be ‘‘briefed’’ on the honor
system. Everyone will expect something else from
‘the freshmen.”’

During the coming week, someone will spend
a few minutes talking to you about something
called the Speaking Tradition, Probably just another
one of those derelict duties that can wait until

October or November, after things settle down.

But wait! The Speaking Tradition is not just
another piece of orientation trivia. The faculty and
students make W&L what it is academically, the
diverse variety of activities make it what is social-
ly, and the Honor System makes it what it is
ethically. The Speaking Tradition, however, makes
W&L a home.

The Speaking Tradition is
not just another piece of ori-
entation trivia... the Speak-

ing Tradition makes W&L a
home.

 

 

It doesn’t take much to do your part. A friend-
ly smile, a polite nod, a slight salute, or a little
‘*hi’’ is all that is necessary. Whatever you feel is
most necessary. You'll be amazed how catchy it
soon becomes. It’s comfortable to know that you

belong. °

I live in New York. Needless to say, the city
does not participate in the tradition. The Speaking
Tradition became such a part of my mannerisms,
that it even followed me home. It’s amazing the
strange looks you get when you offer people in
New York a smile and a nod. Too bad. I guess not
everybody can be as civilized as we are here at
W&L. 5

Every year, the doomsayers report that the
Speaking Tradition is dying away. Granted, it is no
longer strictly enforced as it was in the days of
yore, but this special tradition has proven its
durability. Nevertheless, every September tests the
Speaking Tradition again. Its continued survival
depends completely on you and your peers. Don’t
let an apathetic few get you down. Keep Washing-
ton and Lee our home. I have complete faith in the
class of 1994,

P.S. — I'll catch you one moming on the Collon-
ade.

Rush: one of the first lessons

 

reason.

MY VIEW

But there is a lot more to it.

ably noticed, is not particularly stimu- ever, you have to participate in Rush.
lating) would be considerably less Simply going to an open house or to

By Brian Root

 

I know....I know. All this summer,
your mailbox has been deluged with
letters from fraternities or sororities.
After the first few, you realized that
they said essentially the same thing
and you started throwing them away
unopened,

Chances are, you've seen Animal
House and you think you know what
greek life is about. Well, actually you
do know what part of greek life at
W&L is about, at least in its
exaggerated, Hollywood form.

But there is a lot more to it.

You may have been told by par-
ents, teachers, friends or whomever
that greek organizations are a dying
breed, derelicts of a bygone genera-
tion practicing medieval rituals for no

There’s only one way to find out
for yourself what greek life at W&L
is really about, however, and that is
to participate in Rush.

For the rest of my life, when I
think back to the most enjoyable,
interesting, and indeed educational
experiences of my life, the three
weeks in which I chose a fraternity
will immediately come to mind.

Was it all fun? No. Was pressure
applied to me? Yes. Was the decision
difficult? Yes. Will I ever forget it?
No way. Do I regret any of it?
Well..I did do a couple of foolish
things, but no.

Sororities are a relatively new
phenomenon at W&L. Their system
operates differently from that of fra-
ternities, but the principle is the
same. Without either, social life here
in Lexington (which, as you've prob-

interesting.

There’s only one
way to find out for
yourself what greek
life at W&L is really
all about, however,
and that is to partici-
pate in Rush.

 

 

The most important thing to bear
in mind is that you must make up
your own mind whether to pledge.
Everyone will have advice, your
dorm-mates, your professors, and
particularly your parents. Throughout
it all, however, the decision must
remain yours.

To make the best decision, how-

a rush date in no way obligates you
to any house, or even to pledging at
all.

Besides, it’s fun. I met some of
my best friends during Rush, and had
some of my best times at Rush
events,

Give it a chance. Chances are,
you will learn something about both
Greek life and yourself that you
didn’t know before (one of these
facts is that sororities aren't sorori-
ties, they’re ‘‘women’s fraternities,’’
don’t ask me why).

Rush is a valuable introduction to
W&L’s fraternities and sororities . It
would be a shame to miss out.

Education comes in many
disguises. I think you'll find that
Rush, while it does not count for
credit (not even P.E.), is a class
worth taking.

a

ioe
 

: ‘during the
¢ ‘ Goodwill Games or are from a few

SPORTS

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Freshmen. Going through a new
period in your life, trying to make

, the adjustment from high school life

‘to college life. You probably

‘expected a few new things, but most

‘of you probably didn’t expect a new
: sport.

Unless you got a quick look at it
1988 Olympics, the

‘select geographic regions, in all
; probability, you don’t know very
. Much about one of Washington and
‘ Lee’s more successful teams, the
. ‘*Polo’’ team, as it is affectionately
called on campus.

No, this isn’t the sport played with
clubs and horses, this is water polo.

Coached by Page Remillard, one of

, the most respected coaches in the
: game, the water polo team has year
in and year out posted one of the
best records of any team on campus.
Last year, the team finished eighth in
the East Region. Remillard
conducted a special clinic in
association with the Goodwill Games.
The team has never had a losing
season (a .675 career winning
percentage) and has had a
stranglehold on the state title.

The team hosts several annual
tournaments, which are an adventure
to watch, especially if you are
unfamiliar with the rules. When you
go to one of these games, the
Generals will be the team in the blue
swimming caps cheered on by the
reserves in yellow rain coats.

Crowds for home polo games are
large and raucous, and watching the
game is an adventure. If possible,
listen to what someone who has seen
a game before is shouting down
towards the pool. Then try to
understand just what it is that he is
shouting about.

Remillard described the game in
terms of basketball. ‘“The offense is
trying to put pressure on the defense
to take advantage of ordinary fouls,
which are part of the game. The
fouls create dead time, which occurs
when an offensive player is fouled
with the ball. He gets three seconds
of dead time to put the ball back in

play. During dead time, the defense
cannot foul, or the foul results in a
35-second ejection. The offense
creates scoring opportunities by
keeping pressure on the defense and
making them commit fouls.”’

One key to remember: the whistle
means go.

For the first-time spectator, water
polo seems nothing more than a
series of frequent whistles stopping
play. But there is more to the game
than just frequent stoppages of play.
The game is four quarters seven
minutes each. Unlike hockey, there
are no substitutions on the fly.
Changes may be made only after a
goal or between periods. Like football,
teams get three timeouts.

The regulation pool is 30 meters by
20 meters. However, the Cy Twombly
Pool, where the Generals play, is 25
yards by 15 yards. The game takes a
great deal of endurance. Players must
tread water for the entire game. They
are not allowed to touch the bottom of

the pool.

There are several rules. In a four
meter area in front of the goal, any
foul committed results in a 35-second
penalty. A foul in this area is called
a major foul. Major fouls include
kicking an opponent, deliberate
splashing, unsportsmanlike conduct,
and holding an opponent off the ball.
Three major fouls will result in a
disqualification from the game. The
penalty for a major penalty on the
defense committed against an offensive
player with the ball is a penalty shot
from four meters in front of the goal.
Only the goalie may defend.

There are also ordinary fouls.
These are touching the ball with two
hands, taking the ball under water, and
failing to shoot the ball before the 35-
second shot clock expires. The
penalty for an ordinary foul is loss of
the ball at the point of infraction.

Offensively and defensively, the
strategy resembles that of basketball to
a degree. Teams play six to a side.
Obviously there is no walking with the
ball or no double-dribble, but there are
set plays and lots of motion by the
offensive players, cutting to and from
the goal. Defensively, man-to-man is
the most frequent defense, but zones
are also employed, mostly in man-

The Ring-tum Phi, September 1, 1990
EO A RETO

SLED TE

‘Water polo provides spectators
with fast-paced interesting sport

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Point man

 

Wa&L junior Stu Towns looks to pass the ball on offense in a game last
year played in Cy Twombly Pool. The main point on offense is to get
the ball into the four meter “hole” to try to draw a foul or get an easy
shot. The 1990 Generals will be ranked eighth in the East.

 

 

 

down situations.

“Tf I had to give advice to first
time spectators, when the whistle
blows, don’t watch the ball. Look for
the action off the ball. That is where
the finesse takes place,’ said
Remillard.

‘Water polo is an artistically
physical game, depending on the
-quality of officials,” he continued

“The official is like an orchestra
director. He creates a rhythm, and the
players try to adjust to his rhythm."’

The polo season begins September
15, but Generals will not host an event
until October 27 in the W&L Fall
Classic. The Generals’ will also host
the Southern Championships the
following weekend, which is Parents’
Weekend.

 

 

 

 

 

From Staff Reports
Intramurals

Washington and Lee offers an
intramural program for both resi-
dence hall and fraternities.

Residence hall intramural
teams are broken down into by
halls. Teams will compete in
football in the fall, three-on-three
basketball and volleyball in the
winter and softball in the spring
among other events.

Fraternities compete in the fall
in football, tennis, golf, soccer
and the 3.1-mile Turkey Trot run.
In the winter, wrestling, basket-
ball, volleyball and swimming
highlight the schedule. In the
spring, softball and track headline
the schedule.

Freshmen who pledge frater-
nities are allowed to represent
their house in all sports starting
after football.

Athletics

All athletic events on campus
are free of charge. Washington
and Lee competes athletically on
the Division III level, offering 19
varsity sports and an extensive
club sports program.

W&L is a member of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference,
which was founded in 1976.

Football games are played on
Wilson Field. Water polo is
played in Cy Twombly Pool.
Men’s and women’s soccer games
are played on the Liberty Hall
fields, adjacent to the Freshman
parking lot. Cross country begins
its races from the Law School
Field. Volleyball games are held
in Warner Center.

Coming
Attractions

The W&L football team is
joined by two new coaches and a
graduate assistant coach. The
new additions to the staff make
for one of the most experienced
staffs in Division III and a staff
that head coach Gary Fallon calls
his best ever.

 

 

 

 

 

Jim Stagnitta (foreground)

Head lacrosse coach Jim Stag-
nitta, who led the Generals to a
9-4 record last season and a No.
11 ranking, was nearly gone as
quickly as he came.

A University of Pennsylvania
grad and. a former assistant coach
for the Quakers was a finalist for
the Quakers’ head coaching job,
which opened up when the
Quakers’ former head coach took
the top job at Johns Hopkins.

Stagnitta guided the Generals
to their first winning season since
1987 and the total of nine wins
was more than the Generals tal-
lied in the previous two seasons.

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi needs you!

Wanted: reporters,

Attention freshmen:

 

Benefits:

 

resume

ad salesmen
looks great on a

Sion up at the Student Activites Fair

SepT .

5 on the Lee House Lawn

Organizational meeting --- Sept.6 at S$ p.m.
in Boem 203 cof Reid Hail

 
 

Wé&LIFE
Bon Appetit!

A guide for W&L freshmen to Lexington’s culinary hot spots

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

By the end of Freshman Orienta-
tion next week most freshmen will
have grown familiar with the funda-
mentals of Washington and Lee cam-
pus culture and traditions. Most fresh-
men will have learned about the
Honor Code, will be able to locate
any book they want in the four-story
W&L Library, will have heard stories
about the legendary Fancy Dress Ball,
and will have attended at least one
pre-matriculation party.

Freshmen might not have been
told, however, of the options which
exist off campus for those suffering
attacks of the munchies, or those who
seek alternatives to Evans Dining
Hall. Below is a culinary guide to the
Lexington restaurants most frequented
by college students.

Spanky's, 110 S Jefferson St.

Spanky’s offers a variety of eat-
in or take-out appetizers, sandwich or
submarine combinations with names
like The Bouncy or The Carpetbag-
ger, and drinks. The restaurant also
has a bar and its front room features
gourmet items from all over the
world. Spanky’s is open for lunch
and dinner from 9 a.m. to 1 a.m.
Monday through Saturday and 10
a.m. to 1 a.m. on Sunday.

 

The Palms, 101 W Nelson St.

The Palm’s is another restaurant
equipped with a bar that offers a
variety of food items that will please
any appetite. Favorite offerings at the
Palms are its Curly Fries and differ-
ent types of hamburgers. The Palms
has also become a landmark stop for
the celebrations of those turing 21
years old. The Palms is open for
lunch and dinner 11:30 a.m. to 1:00
a.m. Monday through Friday and
12:00 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Sunday.

El Cafe, 116 N Main St.

El Cafe, which opened in June, is
one of Lexington’s newest restaurants.
E] Cafe features a Mexican cuisine
and atmosphere. El Cafe serves a la
carte choices such as burritos, tacos,
or enchiladas and different combina-
tion plates. El Cafe, which also has a
bar, offers a variety of Mexican
beers, daiquiris and other drinks. El
Cafe is open for lunch and dinner
11:30 am. to 10 p.m. Sunday
through Thursday and 11:30 a.m. to
11 p.m. Friday and Saturday.

Hunan Gardens Chinese Restau-
rant, E Nelson St.

Hunan Gardens provides Lexing-
ton with authentic Chinese cuisine
and a bar to serve exotic cocktails
and drinks. The restaurant offers a
variety of Chinese dishes, combina-
tion plates, and soups. You even can
get fortune cookies! Hunan Gardens
is open for lunch and dinner all week
form 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m.

 

Sycamore Farm Market, 14 S
Randolph St.

Sycamore Farm Market is a deli-
catessen-type restaurant that sells
different kinds of sandwiches, drinks,
salads, and desserts to eat-in or take-
out. Sycamore Farm Market also sells
freshly baked breads and desserts, as
well as other goodies from trail mix
to gummy bears. The restaurant also
offers a large all-you-can-eat Sunday
buffet.

Willson-Walker House, 30 N Main
St.

The Willson-Walker House is
located in a restored classical revival
town house and offers American
Cuisine. The Willson Walker House
is one of Lexington’s finest restau-
rants and is a popular selection
among students for Fancy Dress
dinners and other important celebrato--
ry meals, The Willson-Walker House
is open Tuesday through Saturday
11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. for lunch and
5:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. for dinner.

Southern Inn, 37 S Main St.

The Southern Inn has served
breakfast, lunch, and dinner to Lex-
ington for over 50 years. The restau-
rant offers an assortment of steak,
chicken, and seafood dishes. The
Southern Inn also serves Greek and
Italian specialties. The Southern Inn
has a family-style atmosphere and is
open Tuesday through Sunday 8 a.m.
to 9:30 p.m.

Lloyd's of Lexington, 19 W Wash-
ington St.

Eating at Lloyd’s has become a
legendary experience in which every
W&L student must partake at least
once in his/her four year college
career. Lloyd’s offers a variety of
fast-food breakfasts, as well as ham-
burgers, pizzas, milk shakes, with lots
of video games to play while you
wait. A late-night favorite among
students, Lloyd’s is currently open
from 5 a.m. to 2 a.m., but may return
to its usual 24 hours service later on
this year.

The Ring-tum Phi, September 1, 1990

Saterday, September 1:

 

 

 

 

Lee-Hi Truck Stop, Highway 11 N
Lexington.

Lee-Hi Truck Stop offers anything
a student could possibly want, from
groceries, gas, and fishing gear, to
He-Man breakfasts, lunch plates, and
dinners. Lee-Hi offers reasonably
priced meals and has a juke box that
will play anything from Tammy
Wynette to John Cougar Mellancamp.
Lee-Hi is open every day 24 hours.

Frank's King of Pizza, E Nelson
St.

Frank’s specializes in Italian pasta
dishes, pizzas, submarine sandwiches,
and calzones. Restaurant favorites
include Phillie Cheese-steak Subs,
Meatball or Italian Sausage Subs, and
lots of pizza! Frank’s is open from
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. every day.

Sweet Things, 106 W Washington
St.
Got a sweet tooth? Dip into Sweet

Things, which offers an assortment of

home-made yogurt, shakes, and ice
cream with all sorts of toppings, from

 

hot tudge to Oreo. Sweet Things is
open Monday through Saturday 12
pm. to 10:30 p.m. and Sunday 2
p.m. to 10:30 p.m.

In addition to the above restau-
rants, Lexington also contains several
of the popular restaurant chains like
McDonald's, Wendy’s, Kentucky
Fired Chicken, Pizza Hut, Burger
King, Long John Silvers, and Domi
no’s Pizza, another late night favor
ite. Bon Appetit!

 

 

 

 

1990 Freshman
Orientation Schedule

9:00 a.m.- ‘
4:00 p.m. Freshman Check-in
and Matriculation Commerce Schoc
3:30-5:00 p.m. Parents’ Orientatior Lee Chape ,
$:30-6:30 p.m. Parents’ Dinner Evans Dining Hal
(Parents are guests of the University)

* 9:00 p.m. Dormitory Section Migs. Dormitor:
Sanday, September 2:
11:00 a.m.-
12:30 p.m. Brunch Evans Dining Hal
*1:00 p.m. President's Welcome snd P
Class Meeting Lee Chape.
*2:00 p.m. English Placement '
Test Evans Dining Hali ;
*3:30 p.m. Foreign Language Placement Test
+a. French Evans Dining Hall |
+b. Spanish Evans Dining Halt.
+c, German Tucker Hall. ,
+d. Lutin Newcomb 9
6:00 p.m. Alumni Association BBQ Pavilion »
Monday, September 3: 3
7:00-8:00 a.m. Breakfast Evans Dining Hall:
*8:30 a.m. Mathematics Placement és
Test Evans Dining Hall «
*9:30 a.m. Class Meeting Evans Dining Hall’
11:00 a.m. 2nd Language Placement
Test Evans Dining Hall”
*11:00 a.m.-noon University Heritage Panels TBA*

Noon-1:00 p.m. Lunch Evans Dining Hall"
*2:00-3:15 p.m. Class Meeting ‘‘Academics’’ :

 

(Dean John Elrod) Lee Chapel -
*3:30-5:00 p.m. Departmental Representatives *,
, Meeting Stemmons Plaza
*5:30-6:30 p.m. Faculty Advisers’
Dinner Evans Dining Hal!
9:00-11:00 p.m. Music & Refreshments Davis-Baker-
Gilliam Quad
Tuesday, September 4:
7:30-8:30 a.m. Breakfast Evans Dining Hall
*8:30 a.m.-noon Registration with Faculty
Advisers Faculty Offices
Noon-1:00 p.m. Lunch Evans Dining Hall

*1:30 p.m. Class Meeting ‘‘Beyond the Classroom’’ |
_______ Dean David Howison) Lee Chapel
**3:00-4:00 p.m. Financial Aid
Meeting Northen Auditorium |
5:30-7:00 p.m. Adopt-A-Freshman Dinner Front Lawn |

*7:30 p.m. Honor System Orientation Lee Chapel
Wednesday, September 5
7:30-8:30 a.m. Breakfast Evans Dining Hall
*8:30 a.m-
3:30 p.m. Freshman
Scheduling Colonnade/Payne Hall
8:30-9:30 a.m. A-C
9:30-10:30 a.m. D-G
10:30-11:30 a.m. H-L
11:30-12:30 p.m. M-O
1:30-2:30 p.m. P-S
2:30-3:30 p.m. T-Z
*8:30 a.m.- ®
3:30 p.m. Library Orientation
8:30-9:30 a.m. D-G
9:30-10:30 a.m. A-C
10:30-11:30 a.m. M-O
11:30-12:30 p.m. H-L
1:30-2:30 p.m. T-Z
2:30-3:30 p.m. P-S
Noon-1:30 p.c Student Activities Fair Front Lawn ,
(Com: nce Regular Dining Hall Hours as
Posted in the Dining Hall) 4
*7:00-9:00 p.m. Swimming Proficiency
Tests Warner Center *
7:00 p.m. Men A-D
8:00 p.m. Women A-G
*6:30-9:30 p.m. Responsible Dating Discussions TBA ,
Thursday, September 6
Classes Begin (Note Shortened Class Schedule)
*3:00-9:00 p.m. Swimming Proficiency Warner ©
Tests Center |
3:00 p.m. Men E-H

 

4:00 p.m. Men I-M

7:00 p.m. Women H-M

8:00 p.m. Men N-S
*6:30-9:30 p.m. Responsible Dating Discussions TBA

Friday, September 7

*3:00-6:00 p.m. Swimming Proficiency Warner
Test Center +
3:00 p.m. Women N-Z
4:00 p.m. Men T-Z "
5:00 p.m. (Make-Up)
5:30-8:00 p.m. Fridays Alive Concert Davidson Park °
9:00 p.m. Student Pavilion Party Pavilion

Sunday, September 9
1:00-2:00 p.m. Greek System Orientation Dorm Quad ,
2:00-4:00 p.m. Sign-Up for Open Houses _—_ Lee Chapel

 

 

 

When you party
remember to...

Don't get wrecked. If you're not
sober—or you're not sure —
let someone else do the driving

A message provided by this newspaper
and Beer Drinkers of America

~
ty
* *
x +
+ Wx
BEER DRINKERS

OF AMERICA
PARTY*SMART

National Headquarters
150 Paularino Ave., Suite 190
Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

Beer Drinkers of America isa non-profit consumer membership

onwni7ation open onl) 10 pers over the age of 21

 
