- F ®

= é

“Women's cross country wins ODAC --- see page 5

Ghe Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 12

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

Strike up the band

 

 

 

Members of the Washington and Lee pep band, called Snafu, entertain the crowd at the football
game against Guilford during Parents’ Weekend. Saturday’s performance was the band’s first for
W&L football spectators. Staff Photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Who’s Who names 41 from W&L

 

From the W&L News Office

* ing in all SO states, the District of Columbia and
,, several foreign nations. Outstanding students have
' been honored in the annual directory since it was

 

The 1991 edition of Who's Who Among Stu-
dents in American Universities and Colleges will
include the names of 41 students from Washing-
, ton and Lee’ Who~-have~been ‘selected as natiorial

outstanding campus leaders.

Campus nominating committees and editors of
the annual directory have included the names of
these students based on their academic achieve-
ment, service to the community, leadership in
extracurricular activities and potential for continued

success.

They join an elite group of students selected

from more than 1,400 institutions of

first published in 1934.

Of the 41 W&L students included in the 1991

‘kegs from
fraternities

Atkins warns of

‘insurance liability

 

" By Jason Kelley

Senior Copy Editor

 

Kegs are now taboo at registered
fraternity parties held in chapter
houses at Washington and Lee.

Final approval of the new Inter-

: fraternity Council by-law that bans

kegs came after Tuesday night’s

‘second round of voting on the issue.

The rule had already received precur-
sory approval at last week’s meeting

‘and there was no further debate on

the issue Tuesday night.
‘This rule is effective immediate-

“\y,’’ IFC President Goodloe Lewis
» said.

«=

-

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
reminded the council that whenever
the fraternity serves alcohol to under-
age drinkers, the chapter is not cover-
ed by its liability insurance.

**You do not have any liability
insurance in any case where you
knowingly break the law,’’ Atkins
said.

He said even if chapter members
pool funds instead of using house
money for the alcohol, insurance still
does not cover any liability for the
chapter.

‘Don’t just think your president,
vice-president and treasurer can be
sued,’’ Atkins said. ‘‘Every single
member from the seniors down to the
pledges can be brought to court if
someone sues.

‘It will be a lawyer’s field day.
The bare minimum would be that
you'd each have to pay for your own
iegal fees,’’ he continued.

‘It could be the most expensive
glass of keg beer they ever drank.”’

W&L School of Law.

W&L are:

higher learn-

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

The Minority Student Association
was one of three organizations to
return to the Executive Committee
Monday night requesting additional
funds.

MSA President James Rambeau
presented MSA’s third budget request
for $1,043.75, in addition to the
$1,368.75 already granted the group.
The additional amount is derived
from activities the EC recommended
cut after MSA’s second request.

MSA withdrew and revised its
first 1990-91 request of $8,400 in late
September after EC President Tom
Hatcher called it ‘‘out of line’’ with
previous years’ requests.

The $1,368 the EC granted MSA
after its second request came after
cuts directed at a Martin Luther King
Day reception and a community
luncheon for Black History Month.

volume, 33 are seniors in the university’s under-
graduate divisions, while eight are students in the

Students named to Who's Who this year from

SENIORS: Robby Joe Aliff of Oak Hill, W.Va.;
‘Michael ~ Patrick ~Badgery of Reston; Va.; "Sarah
Cromwell Bolte of Leoti, Kan.; Patricia Schenck
Carr of Greensboro, N.C.; L. Carol Dannelly of
Leesburg, Fla.; Lindsay Bruford De Haven of
Sewickley, Pa; Duke Ashley Dillard of Hixson,
Tenn.; Willard L. Dumas III of New Orleans, La.;
Grace Kathleen Duwel of Lexington, Va.; Joei
Llyne Dyes of Peoria, Ill.; David Joseph Farace of
Reistertown, Md.; John Albert Fialcowitz ot Gar-
den City, N.Y.; Stephen Andrew Gaffney of
Atlanta, Ga.; Timothy James Halloran of Jonesboro,
Ga.; Mary R. Seeger Hampson of Charleston, S.C.;
Wallace Thompson Hatcher of Bowling Green, Ky.;
Michael Wilson Holton of Indianapolis, In.; Brooke
Rachelle Jarabek of Stone Mountain, Ga.

Also named were Bernadette Marie Kempton of
Linville, Va.; Paul Villere LaGarde of New Orle-

ans, La.; John McDonald Laney of Haddonfield,

N.J.; Goodloe Tankersley Lewis of Oxford, Miss.;

Patricia Lopes of Kailua, Hi.; John Edward Neslage

ville, Tex.

The EC also cut $200 in late Septem-
ber for a plaque dedicating the Black
Library in Chavis House, stating that
money granted by President John
Wilson to MSA should have pur-
chased the plaque in the last acad-
emic year.

Wilson granted in excess of
$15,000 to the EC in fall 1989 when
a 1988-89 Student Activities Board
debt was discovered to be at least
that much. With that grant came the
stipulation that MSA use part of its
regular allotment to purchase the
plaque, according to Hatcher. Ram-
beau said Monday night that the
stipulation was not communicated to
MSA, which expected funding for
that above their regular EC allotment.

‘We just don’t know,’’ said
Hatcher of the 1989-90 EC, if the
stipulation was communicated to
MSA. _ Hatcher told Rambeau that
cutting the plaque from this year’s
budget was a punitive measure the
EC will reconsider next Monday.

Il of Houston, Tex.; Richard Straus Perry of Aiken,
8.@;3 "James E. Rambeau Jr.. of Miami; Flai;Biae
Elizabeth Simmons of Fairfax Station, Va.; Tammi
Renee Simpson of Nashville, Tenn.; Bryant Jona-
than Spann of Atlanta, Ga.; Richard Merrill Spence
of Houston, Tex.; Thomas Martin Spurgeon of
Harrisburg, Pa.; Fredrick Skip Sugarman of Mid-
lothian, Va.; and Raymond J. Welder III of Bee-

LAW STUDENTS: Edward Grantland Burns of
Taylors, S.C.; Ronald D. Ciotti of Lexington, Va.;
Gunay Evinch of Lexingon, ¥ ‘.; Charlotte Vaughan
Gibson of Midlothian, Va.; Otto W. Konrad of
Lexington, Va.; Wood Walter Lay of Lexington,
Va.; Mary Katherine Martin of Richmond, Va.; and
Claud V. Worrell II of Bethesda, Md.

IFC bans EC hears new bud

Rambeau, who the EC told to
work with the Contact Committee to
co-sponsor a Black History Month
speaker, also asked the EC to ‘‘rec-
ommend that Contact look for speak-
ers not according to their political
ideology.’” He said that Contact
speaker James Meredith's conserva-
tive political leaning may have been
a factor in Contact’s decision to
invite Meredith. .

Contact Chairman Charles Kran-
ich said Tuesday that the primary
consideration for a speaker is ‘‘what
people on the committee feel will be
of greatest interest to the student
body.’’ He said hosting Meredith
“has nothing to do with ideology.’’

Hatcher said he would pass along
Rambeau’s message. He added that
it would facilitate MSA-Contact
Black History Month negotiations if
MSA would propose a number of
potential speakers to Contact.

Calyx editors Brooke Jarabek and
Suzanne Sneed brought the 10 to 15

NOVEMBER 8, 1990

City puts
hold on
housing

Council action limits housing
options, angers students

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

A public hearing last Thursday
regarding a proposed one-year
moratorium on large-capacity housing
turned into a face-off between W&L
students and area residents.

But despite opposition from stu-
dents who attended the meeting,
Lexington city council unanimously
passed the motion.

Landlords must get conditional
use permits from the city to have
more than four unrelated people live
in the same house. The moratorium
freezes for one year applications for
these permits. Applications that were
submitted to the city before Thursday
night will still be considered.

Lexington Mayor H.E. Derrick
said at the opening of the hearing the
moratorium would give the city ‘‘an
Opportunity to take a good, hard look
at where the city is going.’’

Derrick also said the permit pro-
cess, which took effect in June, has
“highlighted in the public’s mind the
movement of students into Lexing-
ton,’’ resulting in the increased atten-
tion to the situation.

Dorothy Cecil, president of the
Roekbridge Area Neighborhood. Leag-
ue, said residents in Lexington should
be assured safety, health and quict,
and that there have been complaints
about W&L students ‘‘in each area.’’

Cecil urged the council not only
to pass the moratorium, but also to
act to phase out any large-capacity
houses now in existence.

Rev. J.B. Harris, president of the
Rockbridge Area chapter of the
National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People,
acknowledged that while some
students might be good neighbors,

get requests

year-old Calyx computer with them
Monday night to explain their request
of $2,000 for a new computer.

Jarabek and Sneed explained that
the Calyx computer has no hard disk
Storage, and the data must be
repeatedly saved on numerous floppy
disks, a time-consuming process for
50 staff members near deadline.

Jarabek estimated that a new
computer could also save Calyx some
$1,200 annually in word processing
and corrections.

Club Soccer returned to the EC
with a $379 request in addition to
their $410 allocation. The EC also
heard first- time requests from Vol-
leyball and Hockey for $1,614.50 and
$420, respectively.

The EC decided at the advice of
EC Vice President Raymond Welder
to wait until next Monday at 5 p.m.
for budget allocations. Welder said
he will have an updated general
ledger summary for student organiza-
tions at that time.

“‘the residents will be here to support
the community after the students are
gone.”’

A letter sent to council by Donald
and Patricia M. Thomas of Mornings-
ide Drive also supported passage of
the moratorium.

‘*We have noted with concern the
increase in student housing in Lexing-
ton, especially in the Massie St.-Dia-
mond Hill area,’’ the letter read.
‘Each new student housing unit
makes it increasingly difficult for
local residents to find affordable
housing and furthers the process of
disruption and the eventual destruc-
tion of this community.”’

The letter also told council ‘‘the
time has come to take the interest of
all citizens and neighborhoods into
consideration.’’

Opposition to the moratorium was
raised by W&L students.

Gabrey Croft, a W&L junior
living on Jefferson Street, said the
moratorium was an example of ‘‘dis-
crimination against students.’’

“It’s ridiculous. Where are we
supposed to live?’’ Croft asked.
‘‘While we’re here, we’re residents,
too.’’

Senior Richard Weinstein, also a
student-resident, said the moratorium
was ‘‘a step in the wrong direction.’’

“Instead of having © six students
each in two houses, you’re going to
have four students each in three
houses. ... All you’re going to do is
force’ residents out, Weinstein said.

After the public hearing, the coun-
cil convened the regular council mee-
ting. Instead of placing consideration
of the moratorium on the agenda for
the next meeting, it allowed the plan-
ning commission to meet in the hall-
way. When the commission came
back, it recommended approval of the
moratorium and the council voted
unanimously to pass it.

 

 

 

 

 

James Rambeau
.. resubmits MSA budget

Incumbents fare well in midterm election

Warner crushes LaRouche candidate; W&L grad falls to Gephardt

 

By Brian Root
Editor

 

Despite dire predictions of ‘‘voter backlash’
against both Congressmen and state governors,
this year’s midterm elections proved to be one
in which, again, most incumbents remained
unscathed. In the Tuesday elections, two
Washington and Lee graduates met two
different fates.

In the House of Representatives, 96 percent
of incumbents seeking reelection won. In the
Senate, 31 of the 32 incumbents won.

One of the 31 is Virginia Senator John
Warner, W&L '49, who won overwhelming
reelection. Another W&L graduate, Malcomb
Holekamp, lost in his bid to unseat House
Majority former _ presidential

Leader and

candidate Richard Gephardt (D-Mo.)

Prior to the election, Democrats had hoped
that voter disgust with the federal budget would
propel them to an overwhelming majority in
both houses in Congress. However, they were
only able to pick up an additional nine seats in
the House. The tally of Democrats versus
Republicans in the House is now 267-167-1,
The ‘‘1’’ is Bernard Sanders, a socialist, who
capitalized on the issue of increased taxes to
beat out incumbent Pete Smith, a Republican, in
Vermont.

The Democrats also picked up another seat
in the Senate, bringing their majority to 56-44.

Among the most controversial races was the
Senate contest In North Carolina between Sen.
Jesse Helms and former Charlotte mayor
Harvey Gantt. Although polls taken only four
days ago showed Gantt leading by up to six

percentage points, Helms won, 54 percent to 46
percent.

In addition to the Congressional races, 36
governorships went to the voters Tuesday.
These races merited particular interest this year
because of the coming battle over reapportion
ment. Each state, when the results of each
census is released, will gain or lose seats in the
House and must redefine its Congressional
districts according to population. In this highly
political process, the party that controls the
governor's mansion hold the upper hand.

This process is particularly important in the
‘Sunbelt’ states, which have larger populations
and therefore, more seats in the House.

In Texas, State Treasurer Ann Richards won
the gubernatorial over millionaire
businessman Clayton Williams, who managed to
lose a double-digit lead over Richards in a

race

month. CNN called Williams’ collapse ‘‘a
textbook example of blowing a lead.’’

In Florida, another state which will have a
much larger Congressional delegation, former
Sen. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat, defeated
incumbent Bob Martinez.

The G.O.P. won an important victory in
California, where Sen. Pete Wilson beat former
San Francisco mayor Diane Feinstein for the
governorship.

This year’s voter tumout is, according to
CNN, the lowest in 50 years. Nationwide, about
35 percent of those eligible to vote actually
made i* to the polls Tuesday, although turnout
swayed gy, *atly from state to state. In North
Carolina, be, the high-profile race
between Helms « 4 Gantt, 55 percent of eligi
ble voters turned ow. ~@veral precincts reported
voters having to wait mi

use of

than an hour to cast
ballots. In California

campaigns mired in negative
only 31 percent of eligible voters

iheir ‘nd Texas, two

erlisements,
-d out
 

 

OPINION

eS
City v. students:

nobody will win

For the last several weeks, we have covered the ongoing
saga of the Lexington housing situation. For the last several
months, we have covered Lexington’s attempts to tax student-
owned cars. As one might expect, we have begun to notice a
pattem here. Those who govern as well as those who inhabit
the city of Lexington have begun to legislate on the basis of
their anti-student bias.

The latest incamation of this sentiment concerns local
residents’ worries about student housing. As far as we can
determine, residents are worried about two things. First, that
what they call the ever-increasing number of students living
in houses in the city prevents the development of low-income
housing. Second, that students who do live in these high-
occupancy houses are lousy neighbors.

According to Rev. J.B. Harris, the president of the local
chapter of the NAACP, the solution for both of these problems
is simple: limit the number of students living in the city.

In our opinion, the facts do not even begin to support any
of these assessments.

According to the latest housing surveys, fewer students now
live in off-campus city housing than in previous years. If local
residents wish to locate any possible villians in this scenario,
we suggest the landlords. The discrepancy between rents
charged for students and locals is notorious. However, to
suggest that Lexington should engage in rent control is even
more Outrageous.

Since we’re on the subject of outrageous, let’s examine the
notion that locals might live in empty dorm space, which was
first proposed by Rev. Harris. If he thinks students make lousy
neighbors on McCorkle Street, wait until he sees them in
Graham-Lees.

Are students bad neighbors? The answer often is yes. There
have been many instances where students have been insensitive
to locals. However, if locals are that concerned with
these violations of both their trust and the law, why don’t they
follow through with their complaints and prosecute these
‘‘violators?’’ There are very few actual convictions of students
on litter or noise charges in these houses, yet an astounding
number of complaints.

The number of houses addressed by this conflict is almost
absurdly small. Local residents seem intent on venting all their
frustrations on a relatively small number of students. As

Lexington Mayor H.E. ‘‘Buddy’’ Derrick himself said, all of
the houses have been used for students for years. Clearly, if
there is a new lack of low-income housing, these houses aren’t
the cause.

Another argument advanced by local residents is that ‘‘we’ll
be here long after the students are gone,’’ thus somehow
ensuring them the right of first refusal in high-occupancy
houses. Not only is this little more than a case of playground
“*I was here first’’ logic, but it also suffers from a terminal
case of being wrong. Residents will indeed be here after this
current crop of students has gone, but we feel certain that
Washington and Lee will remain in Lexington for quite some
time. We also wish to point out that students, and their parents,
pour a vast amount of money into the local economy. Without
this influx of money, the local economy would suffer from a
rather significant slump.

Under no circumstances do we denegrate the issue of low-
income housing, for it is a pressing issue both here and across
the nation. However, we also believe that city goverment has
and is doing an admirable job in that area without harassing
students. Last year, Lexington applied for and was given a
large block grant, and intends to do so again this year. City
council is doing its job. However, the solution does not lie
with further burdening those few students whose only sin is to
want to live in a house in Lexington.

Quote of the week

That game was about as much fun to watch as pissing on an
electrocuted fence.

— Washington and Lee Sports Information Director and
known malapropist Mike Stachura, assessing the entertainment
quality of the Generals’ loss to Bridgewater two weeks ago.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Student defends Phi reporter

 

MY VIEW
By Trent Merchant

 

In the October 18 edition of The
Ring-tum Phi, Chris Swann reported
on a supposed gang presence at
Lloyd's ‘‘restaurant.’’ In his attempt
to report the facts, Mr. Swann de-
scribed a group of young men as
‘‘delinquents’’ and as a ‘‘gang’’ of
‘*blacks.’’ Since then, his article has
been blasted as ‘‘race-baiting’’ and it
has been implied that Mr. Swann is
involved in ‘‘attempting to create an
unhealthy hysteria on campus and in
the Lexington community.”’

While I agree that Mr. Swann
should have been more careful and
thorough in his description of the
local youths outside Lloyd’s, I do not
doubt his good intentions one bit, and
i insist that personal attacks upon his
integrity by students such as Ted

Smith, James Rambeau and Damon
Sanders cease at once. Mr. Swann
was only trying to report the news to
the best of his ability and does not
deserve to have his character called
into question. I guess now that I’ve
stepped up onto the soapbox I have
no choice but to continue...

In a MY VIEW entry in the Octo-
ber 25 edition of The Phi, James
Rambeau states, ‘‘The Ring-Tum Phi
has on several occasions perpetuated
negative images of black people,
particularly those in the Lexington
area.”” WHOA NELLIE! It is en-
tirely wrong to blame the student
newspaper for the negative image of
blacks in the Lexington area. That
blame rests squarely on the shoulders
of several young local males, who are
black. I’m sure to be labeled a racist
by some for using that ‘‘adjective,”’
but I am simply stating the facts.
Some will continue to fool them-
selves and divert attention from the

real issue at stake here by screaming
“‘racism.’’ If you are that ignorant, I
don’t care — call me racist; I know
that I am not.

These are the facts: There are
young men in Lexington harassing,
assaulting and robbing students, and
all of these aforementioned young
men are black. Throughout the school
year there have been attacks on W&L
students by local young black men.
Early in the year a group of local
young blacks, male and female, en-
tered a fraternity house and assaulted
two females from area women’s col-
leges as well as several members of
the fraternity. At approximately 4:30
A.M. on the morning of November 5,
a young black male was chased from
the Kappa Sigma house after a mem-
ber of the fraternity awoke to find
this young man in his room, hovering
over his stereo, and holding a butcher
knife. It was soon discovered that this
‘‘delinquent’’ had made off with the

house stereo system.

So who is responsible for perpetu-:

ating the negative image of blacks in

the area? Should we blame the press.
or should we blame a group of local:

young black men who embarrass their
race as well as their community? |
hope the answer to that question is
obvious. I also hope that as a college
community we can try to pull togeth-
er, regardless of race. We as a stu-
dent body are being pushed around
by several local hoodlums.

It appalls me that some students ©
try to rationalize the action of these .

criminals by pointing out how stu-
dents have so many more opportuni-

ties than locals. This is true, we are .

very fortunate. But even if I walk

down Main Street waving $100 bills ~
in the air, it doesn’t give anyone the ,
right to beat me up. Let’s stop at-

tacking each other and focus our

”

concerted efforts on bringing these |

bullies to justice.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee, The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

FIJI says fight
was provoked

I would like to point out a slight oversight
in reporting in last week’s front page article on
the Phi Gamma Delta-Sigma Phi Epsilon conflict.

Left out of the timeline of events was a fight
between Phi Gamma Delta member Kirk
Sohonage and acting Sigma Phi Epsilon presi-
dent Peer Soderberg, Jon Soderberg, and an
unidentified law student. It was this fight, and
what we maintain was the provocative nature of
this fight, that was the exact cause of the late
night melee. Without this fight occurring, nothing
would have come of the provocative words or
first visit.

This information was readily available from
any member of Phi Gamma Delta, including
myself, and the members of the IFC Judicial
Board to whom this information was reported.
The WLUR story, reported by Amy Beall,
contained this information.

Without reportage of this key event’s role in
the unfortunate circumstances which followed,
those individual members of Phi Gamma Delta
who participated in the late night fight appear to
have acted without cause. Thank you for an
otherwise excellent and evenhanded story.

Sincerely,
Bill Yorio,
President, Phi Gamma Delta

EDITOR'S NOTE: In its original form, our story
did contain that information. It was not printed
because we were unable to authoritatively confirm
those facts.

NOW decries
graffiti, invites
discussion

When the Rockbridge Valley Chapter of the
National Organization of Women last met, the
topics of discussion ranged from women’s career
opportunities to the challenges facing the modern
stay-at-home mom. We also discussed violence
against women, teen pregnancy, the feminization

. of poverty, and the growing wave of tolerance

and insensitivity that is appearing on college
campuses.

We were confronted with the latter head-on
that evening because someone — either a W&L
student, group of students, or someone trying to
look like a W&L student — had plastered the
R.E. Lee Church Parish Hall with anti-NOW
posters. ‘‘N.O.W. is Lesbian Socialism,” W&L
hates N.O.W. Go Away,”’ and ‘‘Die Molly
Yard’’ were some of its slogans.

We can only hope that the offender is a
freshman who has not yet learned that a great
university like W&L is a free marketplace of

 

LETTERS

ideas; that mature, intelligent people can dis-
agree, debate and discuss issues and not resort
to childish displays of hate graffiti.

Somebody is clearly fearful, hateful and frus-
trated and is having trouble dealing with their
feelings in a constructive manner. We are amazed
to think that we could be perceived as that
threatening. Most of us are teachers in the local
schools or colleges or stay-at-home mothers or
professional women. There are even a few W&L
students who occasionally join us. What binds us
together is that we care about the future of our
students and children and believe that equality of
opportunity should not be limited by gender or
anything else.

All NOW meetings are open to the public.
We welcome members of the W&L community
to join our discussions. Our last meeting would
have been enlivened if our anonymous poster
artist had had the courage to attend. The person
may even have learned a little about what the
National Organization of Women does in our
community and what we feel we have gained as
members.

We meet on the last Tuesday of every month
in the R.E. Lee Church Parish Hall at 7:30 p.m.
and we welcome all who would like to join us.

Sincerely,
Pam Patton
Pam Simpson

Ariel clears up
confusion

I would like to correct some of the incorrect
statements made in the Arie/ article that appeared
in last week’s Phi.

First, the article states that ‘‘last year’s Ariel
had no real guidelines for choosing submis-
sions.’’ In truth, we did have very strict
guidelines for reading works. I would split up
the stories and poems we had into three groups:
one for me, and one each for my associate
editors, John Sbar and Sarah Clark. Before I
handed the piles out, I removed the author’s
names from the material. We each read the three
piles within a two week period. While reading,
we separated the submissions into two categories:
those works we felt could be printed and those
that were not ready yet for print. We never
disagreed on whether or not something was
printable. Next, when each of us had read the
material, we met and discussed which of the
printable stories and poems should make it into
the upcoming issue. If there was a disagreement,
I made the final decision.

This system may not be perfect, but I think
it worked well. In fact, four of the seven winners
at the English awards ceremony were in the
spring issue of Ariel: Michael Dixon, Alice
Harrell, Alison Bell, and Scott Howe.

Secondly, the article states that ‘‘the only
people represented in Ariel last year were up-
perclassmen.’’ Once again, this statement is
completely wrong. In the spring issue, we ran 12

stories and poems. Of those twelve, seven were
by underclassmen. Four poems by sophomores
Susan Watkins, Seamane Flanagan, Jennifer
Donaldson, and Chris Swann were included.
Three freshman also had works printed: Scott
Howe, Ralph Emerson Duncan, and Natalie
McCaughrin.

A final fault I found in the article was the
statement that Ariel is not the New Yorker. If we
take the New Yorker as a symbol of the paragon
of literary magazines as I believe it is intended
to be in the statement, we most definitely wanted
to make Ariel like it. Jon, Sarah, and I believed
that we should make Ariel the best that we gould
make it. We stressed quality writing over me-
diocrity and class representation. We believed we
owed as much to the students and faculty who
read Ariel, the administrators who display Ariel
on their coffee tables for guests, and the execu-
tive committee, who gave us so much money.

Sincerely,
John Foster
Ariel Editor 1989-90

Woolly Worm
Festival

The results of the 1990 Woolly Worm Fes-

tival are in. Great, .you say, but what is a woolly .

worm anyway? And what is the festival for? A
woolly worm is a black and orange striped
caterpillar who will one day tum into a tiger
moth. The woolly worms predict the weather for
the winter by the pattern of their stripes. Black
indicates cold weather, orange mild, and various
shades of those colors represent conditions be-
tween the extremes.

Every year in Banner Elk, North Carolina
- a town twenty minutes from my home in
Boone, which is not very close to anything at
all — they hold a woolly worm festival to deter-
mine which worm will be the official predictor
for the coming year. To determine the winner,
the worms race up strings in heats of nineteen
worms each. Then the winners of each heat have
a run-off (of sorts: after all, how fast can a
woolly worm run?) to get the champion.

This year, 722 woolly worms participated in
the Festival. The winner, Willie, belongs to a
man from South Carolina. And now, the moment
everybody has been waiting for: Winter Predic-
tion 1990, as told by Willie himself. Using body
language, of course.

Beginning on December 21, the first four
weeks of winter will be colder than usual, fol-
lowed by four weeks of normal weather, a week
of above normal weather, and ending with
another four weeks of cold. So there you have it.
And don’t we feel better now? I just felt a great
need to educate all you city folks, non-hicks,
uninformed, or whatever your reason for not
knowing what a woolly worm is. Keep Willie in
mind as you make your winter plans!

Sincerely,
Kari May

ee.

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

 

 

Down, set...

Telford and

host scholars

Religion Dept.

 

Staff Reporter

for a conference
Capitalism.’’

Chapel at 8 p.m.

Programse

 

 

The Generals’ center. Frank.Sudell, quarterback Fred Renneker, and
tailback Mason Pope line up against the Guilford defense last
Saturday. The Generals defeated the Quakers 28-2
record to 4-5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

2, to bring their

 

 

 

' From Staff Reports

 

The federal judge presiding over
the U.S. government’s attempt to

» force Virginia Military Institute to
_-admit women refused to allow Vir-

|

4

?

ginia Governor L. Douglas Wilder to
remove himself from the court battle
Monday.

In a previous hearing before U.S.
District Judge Jackson Kiser, held on
-Oct. 23, Wilder’s lawyers had argued

' ‘that the governor ‘‘had not created or
; ‘perpetuated VMI’s admissions poli-

Interviews and photos

cy,’’ and should therefore be dropped
from a lawsuit filed by the United
States Justice Department.

The lawsuit, which was filed
March 1, alleges that VMI, which is
state-supported, violates both the
Constitution and the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 by refusing to admit women
into the cadet corps.

“The United States is requesting
more than a simple judgement order-
ing desegregation,’’ said Kiser. ‘‘A
remedial plan may be needed, and
VMI may have to deal with new

    

by Amanda Hughen

 

 

 

"SL,
‘I do consider myself as
a politically aware person, but
unfortunately I am also a procras-
tinator, and as a result my request
for an absentee ballot was rejec-
ted,’

John Neslage, Houston,

TX =

 

 

 

Christina Robinson, ’91, Bartles-
ville, OK — ‘‘Well, I voted in the

’

Beautiful Eyes election.’

problems
cadets.”’

Kiser said that he considered the
roles taken by former Virginia gover-
nors in eliminating segregation in
other state colleges in formulating his
ruling.

associited with female

Kiser said Wilder has ‘‘great
persuasive powers as the only official
with responsibility over education
elected by all the citizens of Virgin-
ia."

‘‘The United States contends that
it may need to compel the governor

 

By Joshua Manning

This weekend, the Washington and Lee Religion
Department will host three internationally known scholars

titled ‘‘Justice and the Future of

Beginning on Sunday afternoon, social philosophers
Hugo Assmann, Michael Novak and Max Stackhouse will
present their widely divergent views on the justice of
democratic capitalism. The program will culminate
Monday with a panel discussion between the three in Lee

The lectures are sponsored by the Robert Lee Telford
Lecture Fund with additional support from the Religion
Department’s Philip F. Howerton Fund for Special

Religion Department head Harlan Beckley has been
planning the conference since the spring of 1989. Beckley
worked with a committee of inter-departmental faculty
members to choose a topic and a list of desired lecturers.

“One of the reasons we wanted to address this topic
was because it has not, to my knowledge, been addressed
before on this campus,’’ Beckley said.

“Given recent events in Eastern Europe,’”’ he said,
“this topic becomes all the more timely now that
capitalist systems must respond to the collapse of
traditional socialism. It has been widely discussed of late
by theologians, moral philosophers and social scientists.’’

Assmann, Novak and Stackhouse are all acknowledged
leaders in their fields, according to Beckley. In addition,
they hold different positions on the subject of political
economy from the ethical and theological perspective.

A native Brazilian, Assman currently teaches at the
Universidade Metodista de Piracicaba in Brazil. As a
founding member of the Ecumenical Association of Third
World Theologians, Assman is a representative of Latin
American liberation theology. He represents a radical
critique of the justice of capitalism. Assman’s lecture will
be delivered in Lee Chapel on Sunday at 4 p.m.

Novak, a sociologist, is a noted defender of democratic
capitalism. He presently holds the George Frederick Jewett
Chair on Religion and Public Policy at the American
Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C. He also serves as
director of social and political studies at the Institute.
Novak will speak at 8 p.m. on Sunday.

Aa a United Church of Christ clergyman, Stackhouse
draws on an ecumenical tradition in American theology
and “ethics” fo ‘addréss “the ‘Morality’ of political and
economic issues. He is currently the Herbert Gezork
Professor of Christian Social Ethics at the Andover
Newton Theological School in Massachusetts. Stackhouse
will speak Monday afternoon at 4 p.m.

Judge rules Wilder must stay in case

to use these powers in order to im-
plement gender desegregation at
VMI,”’ he said.

In the same ruling, Kiser also
allowed the VMI fund-raising associa-
tion and an alumni foundation to
enter the lawsuit, which is scheduled
to go to court April 4.

In their arguments, the associations
argued that they provide the school
with 15 percent of its operating bud-
get. If coeducation were mandated,
they contended, donations would fall
off, necessitating their participation.

 

 

 

Hal Bailey, 91, Memphis TN -
- ‘‘I am just sorry I am not a
member of the District because |
would have thrown all my support
behind Mr. Barry.’’

TALKBACK

 

D and D

Anyone interested in organizing a
Dungeons and Dragons tourna-
ment please contact Eric Mutz at
464-5550. Especially looking for
an experienced Dungeon Master
to oversee the game. All game
materials will be provided.

Get a job

A workshop in ‘‘Off-Campus Job
Search’’ will be held on Monday,
Nov. 12, from 4-5 p.m. in Uni-
versity Center 109 by the Career
Development and Placement Of-
fice. This presentation is especial-
ly for students who will be seek-
ing jobs not currently sought by
recruiters in their on-campus re-
cruitment process.

Get a job 2

All students who want to partici-
pate in ‘‘career Connections: New
York City’’ at Chemical Bank in
New York on Monday, Nov. 19
must register in the CD&P office
within the next week. It is open
to both seniors and underclass-
men

Get a job 3

Seniors willing to submit resumes
for the month of December need
to drop their resumes in the
CD&P office by 4:30 on Nov. 12.

Get a job 4

All sophomores are invited to a
presentation called ‘‘Self-Assess-
ment for Sophomores’’ which will
be held on Tuesday, Nov. 13,
from 4-5 p.m. in Room 109 of
the University Center.

Scholarships

Twenty-five scholarships are cur-
rently available for students ma-
joring in engineering or science
disciplines. Administered by Oak
Ridge Associated Universities,
they are designed for students
interested in careers in environ-
mental restoration or waste man-
agement. For more information,
‘rite Peggy Gibson, Environmen-
tal Restoration/Waste Management
Scholarship Program, Oak Ridge
Associated Universities, Science/-

117, Oak Ridge, TN, 37831.

English jobs
There will be a session for En-
glish majors currently in the job
market, with emphasis in the
areas of public relations, banking,
and secondary school teaching
(public and private). It will be
held Wednesday, Nov. 14, in
Payne 21 at 7 p.m. On Thursday,
Nov.15, there will be a special
session concerning private school
teaching in Payne 26.

Scholars

Any freshmen and sophomores
interested in being considered for
the university Scholars Program
should notify in writing Prof.
John Evans, Director of the Uni-
versity Scholares Program, as
soon as possible.

 

Engineering ..Division,..P.O., Box. .

GENERAL NOTES

Invade Russia

An information session for those
interested in the university's spr-
ing-term study program in the
Soviet Union will be held Nov.
14 in Newcomb Hall 9. Students
desiring further information before
the meeting should contact Prof.
Richard Bidlack.

Outing Club

The Outing Club will lead a hike
on Saturday, Nov. 10, at 11 a.m.
to explore two large waterfalls in
the South River drainage. For
more information, call Tom Vin-
son at 463-6594. The next meet-
ing of the Environmental Section
will be Tuesday, Nov. 13 at 5:30
in University Center 113. Dont
forget the Outing Club’s regular
kayaking instruction, mountain
bike and road rides, and equip-
ment room hours. For details, see
the Outing Club bulletin board on
the Collonade or at Baker 109.

The winner is...

The winners of the Delta Gamma
Mr. and Ms. Beautiful Eyes
Contest will be announced at
halftime of the Generals’ football
game Saturday. Come to the game
and find out who has the most
gorgeous eyes on campus! Win-
ners will be provided prizes by
DG and Pappagallo.

Card game

We’re looking for one or two
other people who understand the
card game pinochle and would be
interested in getting a game to-
gether. For information, please
call Josh at 463-2397, or Colin at
463-9286.

Orientation

The Mock Convention Steering
Committee will hold two orienta-
tion sessions for students interest-
ed in participating in the 1992
Mock Democratic Convention.
They will be held at 7 and 9 p.m.
on Nov. 8 in Room 203 of Reid
Hall.

Good flick

The next presentation by the
W&L Film Society will be The
Wannsee Conference. It will be
shown on Nov. 9 and 10 in Lew-
is Hall, Classroom A. There is no
admission charge. The film is in
German, with English subtitles.

Camuto Book

Professor Christopher Camuto will
sign his book, A Fly Fisherman's
Blueridge, Tues. Nov. 13 in the
bookstore. The trades praise
Camuto looks beyond flyfishing
to discussions of nature on a
broader scale.

Loans

The Emergency Loan Committee
has loans available for students.
Contact Jeffrey Rogers, 464-5430.

 

 

 

 

  

Do you consider yourself politically aware?

 

 

Kate

Hanley, ’91, Fairhope,
AL — ‘‘Let’s put it this way, I
buy a paper every day, but usual-
ly only make it as far as the
crossword puzzle. I did vote,
though.’’

Greg Evans, ’92, Florence, AL -
- “There was an election on
Tuesday?’’

 

Anonymous, ’?, Oak Park, IL -
- ‘‘I am still waiting for Lyndon
LaRouche to get out of jail.’’

 

 

 
 

NEWS

Kappa Sigma
stereo stolen

The Kappa Sigma fraternity
house stereo system is missing
after a break-in early Monday
morning.

An amplifier, tape deck and
receiver worth about $1,250 were
stolen, in addition to a jacket
worth $175, according to police.

Kappa Sigma members told
police that at about 4 a.m. a man
carrying a butcher knife woke
brothers sleeping on the second
floor. When the brothers ap-
proached the man, he dropped the
knife he was carrying and fled
down the stairs and out of the
house.

The man was about 18 years
old and wearing a long khaki-
colored jacket. He was last seen
running toward Nelson Street.

W&L lecture
to be published

Noted constitutional scholar
Melvin E. Bradford will lecture
at Washington and Lee Tuesday.

Bradford’s lecture is sponsored
by the Contact Committee.

Bradford, a noted scholar in
the United States and Europe, will
discuss the First Amendment.
Specifically, he will focus on the
amendment as viewed by the
founding fathers.

The lecture at W&L is
scheduled for later publication.

Bradford is currently a profes-
sor of English and American
Studies at the University of Dal-
las. He has written and
contributed to numerous books
dealing with constitutional issues.
His most recent book is titled The

 

| BRIEFS

Reactionary Imperative.

Bradford’s speech is open to
the public and will be held at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Upcoming Contact speakers
include literary humorist Hunter
S. Thompson on Dec. 4 and
Virginia Senator John Warmer,
W&L '49.

Dean to speak
about women

Dean Anne Schroer-Lamont
will speak on ‘‘Gifted Women
and Career Choices’’ in the R.E.
Lee. Church Parish Hall on Nov.
27.

Schroer-Lamont has __ spent
eight years researching how gifted
young women make career de-
cisions and balance them with
decisions about personal relation-
ships. Her findings show that
there are significant differences
between how men and women
make their choices.

The meeting will be at 7:30
p.m. and is open to the public. It
is sponsored by the Rockbridge
Valley Chapter of the National
Organization for Women.

Tech fraternity
caught hazing

A Virginia Tech fraternity has
been convicted on six hazing
charges, including forcing a
pledge to drink alcohol.

Lambda Chi Alpha was con-
victed on five counts of psych-
ological hazing, which school
officials define as yelling at
pledges, other acts of verbal in-
timidation or transporting pledges

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990
SSeS

against their will.

After deliberating for several
hours, a judicial review board
Suspended the fraternity’s social
and academic privileges until
March and placed the chapter on
probation until Sept., 1991. Lamb-
da Chi, which has 70 members,
had no prior record of violations.

Last year, Tech approved
banishing another fraternity, Delta
Kappa Epsilon, from campus for
five years after it was found
guilty of hazing violations during
a trip to an Ohio college.

The charges against Lambda
Chi were filed by one pledge last
week, although other witesses
testified during a hearing Friday.

Bottle thrown at
student window

A bottle was thrown from the
street into a Washington and Lee
student’s upstairs apartment at 25
West Washington St. early Sun-
day morning.

The bottle hit the wall op-
posite the window and shattered,
police said.

Senior Stacy Patmore told
police a friend opened an apart-
ment window after hearing an
argument in the street. A man
standing in the street first threw
garbage at the window and then
the bottle.

The man drove away after
throwing the bottle.

These news briefs were compiled
by Phi staff members Pat Lopes,
Josh Manning, Andrew Waters
and Alesha Priebe.

 

 

 

Just hangin’ out

W&L students and their parents enjoy lunch on the university lawn Saturday of Parents’
Weekend. Almost 2000 parents visited campus last weekend, among them 100 alumni fathers.
The lunch was just one of several activities planned for parents. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

 

  

TPMT O OCG

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Law students compete
in Moot Court contest

 

By Cathy Lopiccolo
Staff Reporter

 

Associate Supreme Court Justice
Bryon White will serve on the panel
of judges for the final round of
Washington and Lee’s Davis Moot
Court Competition, to be held next
Thursday at 4 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The competition began with 56
second- and third-year law students,
according to Davis Administrator
Claude Worrell. Today, the field was
narrowed to four finalists who will
compete before the final panel of
judges. 5

‘In the Davis program, competi-
tors write a brief on a problem they
are assigned and then prepare an oral
argument on the brief,’’ Worrell said.

Each of the four finalists will be
allowed to present a fifteen-minute
argument, during which the judge

may ask questions. Worrell said this
case does not include a client or a
jury, because it is an appeals case
dealing more with legal issues than
with factual evidence.

This year the finalists will be
judged by Justice White, Judge David
Ebel from the Tenth Circut Court of
Appeals and Judge Rhesa Barksdale
from the Fifth Circut Court of Ap-
peals.

This year’s fictitious case involves
a dispute between the Augustus O.
Howard Feed Company, et al, in the
state of ‘‘Lewis Hall’’ and the Bayou
Feed Company in Louisiana. The first
part of the problem addresses two
separate actions by a Federal District
Court under Civil Rule of Procedure
11, and 28 United States Code, sec-
tion 1927.

According to Worrell, the first
issue involves sanctions against an
attorney for misconduct and against
his client, Augustus O. Howard. In a
case where the parties are form two

separate states, the Federal District .

Court may apply state substantive
law, which provides different proce-

dures to punish attorneys and parties .

in a case.

The court then sanctioned the
client further, citing its inherent pow-
ers as basis for its sanction.

‘‘The second issue concerns the
inherent power of the court,’’ Worrell
said. ‘‘State courts do not have the
power to sanction attorneys or parties.
They cannot award sanctions under
their own auspices. The federal court
in this case had sanctioned the parties
but not the attorney.”

The petitioners in the case will
argue that the court should not have
applied Rule 11 or section 1927 and
should not have used its inherent
power, according to Worrell. The
respondents will maintain the court
was right to sanction both parties.

Worrell said the whole case is
really an argument over the conflict
between federal and state procedure.

 

Pillsbury
Flour

 

 

 

Contac Severe
Cold Formula

 

 

 

 

Old Fashioned

tt
f:

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

Coca-Cola,
Sprite

99"

2 Liter

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, November 13, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, November 13, 1990 In Lexington Store Only _
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 
SPORTS

Cross country runs
to first ODAC title

Her absence presented a chal-
lenge to the runners on the lower end
who were asked to pick up the slack.
Freshman Kari May along with Herr-
ing showed the greatest improve-
ments and were instrumental in the
team’s success, said Phemister.

The men’s team was not quite as
successful as the women. They
finished second to Lynchburg College
24-33 despite running what head
coach John Tucker called their best

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

   

R

 

By John Kleckley
’ Staff Reporter

This past weekend at the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionships, the Washington and Lee
women’s cross country team won

/ their first ever conference title with a
' balanced team effort.

The Generals nipped three-time
defending champion Eastern Men-
nonite College 36-38.

 

 

 

 
 
   
    

Sophomore Susie Wootton (22:36)
and senior Cecily Tynan (22:44)
finished one and two for the Generals
and fifth and sixth overall to lead
W&L’s balanced finish; both runners
were named all-ODAC.

 

 

 

 

race of the season.

Throughout the race the two
teams battled head to head, and in
the end they had captured the top
eight spots between them, but it was
the performance of Lynchburg’s dis-

 

 

 

 

 

Cecily Tynan

Five other runners finished in the

top 18 for the Generals, and though

only three of them counted in the

scoring, the others were able to dis-

place the final EMC runner and
clinch the win for W&L.

Head coach Jim Phemister, who
was named ODAC Coach-of-the-Y ear,
was understandably pleased with his
team’s performance.

‘We needed a 100 percent effort
from everyone and everyone produced
it. It was a total team effort,’’ said
Phemister. ‘‘We didn’t have the fast-
est runners, but we had the deepest
team. Our displacers, our sixth and
seventh place runners [juniors] Bran-
non Aden and Jodi Herring, won it
for us.”’

Phemister pointed to one specific
incident that made his team come
together. Senior Pat Lopes, who had
been consistently finishing in the top
five, got pneumonia and was unable
to'run at the end of the season.

.

  
 

per sa aha th Gln Uh ohh ah tad emi. Mil daar mah ae sk se ou Jel i 1’

ri Ti, Wiis ie fhisa te stan ca

4
id
e
e
e
3
#
§
f
i
4
rt
sl
,

Trying to stretch dollars when you're
computer shopping doesn’t mean you're willing
to make sacrifices.

That's why you should consider the new,
affordable Macintosh® Classic® computer.

It has everything you need— including a monitor, keyboard, mouse,
2 megabytes of RAM, and a 40-megabyte hard disk, Just plug everything in and
the Macintosh Classic is ready to run, because the system software is already
installed? And, thanks to the Macintosh computer's legendary ease of use, you'll
be up and running in no time.

Like every Macintosh, the Classic can run thousands of available applications
that all work in the same, consistent way—so once you've learned one program,
you're well on your way to learning them all. And this is one cheap roommate
that doesn’t have trouble sharing. The Apple® SuperDrive"—standard
equipment with every Macintosh—reads from and writes to Macintosh,

Charles Edwards
placers that proved to be W&L’s
undoing.

Sophomore Bo Hannah (27:17),
senior David Martin (27:30), and
junior Charles Edwards (27:48) were
the top finishers for W&L. Each
eamed all-ODAC honors. Other top
runners included sophomore Keith
Rinn, junior Lee Parker, and senior
Kennon Walthall.

Despite finishing second, Tucker

was more than happy with his team’s
performance.

“Our men ran their best race of
the year when it counted,’’ he said.
‘“When we needed perfection, all we
got was excellence. Our men gained
the respect of everyone present —
competitors and spectators alike.’’

The season is not over for both
teams just yet. Both teams will par-
ticipate in the regional championships
at Emory University in Atlanta, Ga.
The top teams and finishers will

advance to the NCAA Champion-
ships.

Me

1347

* Macintosh Classic computers purchased before January 1991 include system software on floppy disks; softwar @ i
©1990 Appie Computer, inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, inc. SuperDrive and The
power to be your best” are trademarks of Apple Computer, inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, inc. MS-DOS
is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a registered trademark of international Business Machines Corporation

ig

Senior Craig Irons turns upfield after making a catch in Saturday’s
football game against Guilford. Irons led the Generals with six
catches on the afternoon, his best game since the season-opener

Generals

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee football
team has a knack for bouncing back
after disappointing losses. After losing
to Maryville 21-7 four weeks ago, the
Generals responded with a two-game
winning streak.

Last week, Bridgewater ended that
streak with a 28-7 romp, setting the
stage for W&L’s game with Guilford,
who will join the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference next year. Guil-
ford was trying to stake a claim to
an ODAC title, having beaten every
team in the ODAC this season —
except W&L.

Guilford came into the game: with

mo
tay
‘Ril s

ue WOPES

       
  
     
      
  
 

_

L ony

*
8 ee 7

16.9%
3. ae

 

BY D mI Oel ee the Macintosh Classic.

not installed

dethrone

a high-powered offense that had twice
put up 41 points against ODAC foes
this year, and the Quakers thought
Saturday would be no_ different.
They would score a lot and finish
their romp through the ODAC.

But it was.

W&L installed a defense designed
to contain Quaker quarterback Calvin
Hunter. The defense, the ‘‘61 TNT,”’’
did its job and the offense enjoyed its
best game of the season as the Gen-
erals upset the Quakers 28-22 on
Parents’ Weekend.

“The defense was designed to
shut down their inside game,’’ said
junior linebacker Trey Cox. ‘‘We
took out one linebacker and put in
another down lineman. That had their
five lineman blocking our five. It was

against Emory and Henry, when he caught seven. Irons’ catches
set up three W&L touchdowns against Guilford in the 28-22 upset
win. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

mythical champs

a great game plan. They had to leave
either an end or a linebacker un-
blocked, and whoever they left un-
blocked made the play.’’

The defense set the stage early,
forcing Guilford to punt after only
three plays on the opening possession
of the game. W&L took over on the
Guilford 41 and went right to work.

Junior quarterback Fred Renneker
hit senior tailback Mason Pope on a
screen pass, and Pope rambled down
the sideline for 25 yards to the Guil-
ford 16. Five plays later, Pope bur-
rowed into the end zone from four
yare’s out, and the Generals led 7-0
alter senior Carter Quayle’s extra
point was good.

After Guilford tied the score,

Reunole Pepe ‘and _ompey went

back to work. On third down and 12,
Renneker looked for senior split end
Craig Irons on the sideline. Irons
leapt, caught the ball and came down
with both feet in bounds before being
knocked out of bounds with a first
down.

Three plays later, again on third
down, Renneker looked for Irons —
this time over the middle. Irons was
hit by three defenders but still came
down with the ball and another W&L
first down.

‘Craig had a heck of a day,”
said Renneker. ‘‘He caught the ball
in traffic and took some big hits —
but he held on as usual.’’

After a 15-yard strike from Ren-

AR

 

MS-DOS, 0/2, and Apple II floppy disks, which means

you can share information with someone who uses a

different type of computer.
See the Macintosh Classic for yourself It’ll change your mind

about cheap roommates.

For further information visit
Tucker Hall Room 215A

NGS am ECORY QQ ete!

 

or call 463-8844
6

The power to be your best"

 

 

 

Q Please see GENERALS page 6

amo

rete. EMAAR LEAL MT ANAL NAS S ee ee

OPFOR”
SPORTS

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

 

 

 

Rae

Junior quarterback Fred Renneker eyes the end zone in the fourth throws a block. Reniueker scored the touchdown and the Generals
quarter of Saturday’s game against Guilford as Thomas May scored the win, 28-22. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

GENERALS

from page 5

 

neker to junior Jeff Kreis put the ball
on the Guilford five-yard line, Pope
finished the drive with a one-yard
scoring run, making the score 14-7
after one quarter. The 14 points e-
qualled W&L’s season total in the
first quarter.

The first half ended 14-7, but the
W&L defense asserted itself. With six
minutes left in the half, sophomore
Kevin Gorman and senior Brad Miller
hit Hunter as he was about to throw
a pass and knocked him out of the
game.

Hunter would return, but he would
not be his usual self. The W&L
defense, which has not allowed a
quarterback to complete 50 percent of
his passes, held Hunter to 14 of 30
with three interceptions.

W&L extended its lead to 21-7 in
the third quarter. Pope got things
rolling from the W&L 16 with a 12-
yard run off the right side. Soph-
omore Wade Robinett then blasted his
way for nine yards on successive
carries.

Renneker then took to the air,
connecting with Pope, who made a
one-handed grab and carried the ball
for a gain of 12 to the Guilford 43.
After three running plays took the
ball to the 30, Renneker went back to
the air.

He found a wide-open Irons for a
gain of 16 to the Quaker 14. Two
plays later, Renneker zipped a pass
over the middle through double cov-
erage to a crossing Kreis in the end
zone for the score.

Guilford drew within 21-14 at the
end of the third quarter, but the Gen-
erals quickly extended the lead back
to 14. Renneker moved the team to

 
 
    
    
 
  
 

 
 

FOR RENT

House in Country
463-5383

Help wanted

Interested in being an advertising

salesman for The Ring-tum Phi?
We currently need two or three
more salesmen. For more informa-
tion, please call 463-8581.

 

For’ your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

 
   
 

 

 

 

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
_ 4780 Ogden Road ‘Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

the Guilford 42 with two more circus
catches by Irons. Two carries by
Pope and one by Kreis got the ball to
the 23-yard line.

Robinett then ran off the right
side for 18 yards, getting blocks from
juniors Jim Henry and Rob Thomas,
to the five-yard line. On the next
play, Renneker faked a hand-off to
Pope, slipped down and won a foot
race to the corner of the end zone for
the score.

Greg Despres appeared to be open,
but at the last minute junior Scott
Williamson dove and intercepted the
pass one-handed in the end zone for
a touchback.

On W&L’s next possession, on
fourth down the Generals sent Bob
Ehret in to punt. But the snap sailed
over his head and rolled to the W&L
two-yard line. Ehret wisely picked the
ball up and ran into the end zone,
taking the safety and giving the Gen-

 

 

 

 

Scott Williamson

From that point on, the defense

took over. The Generals forced a
tumover on the next Guilford posses-
sion. After sophomore Thomas May
knocked down one pass, senior Brad
Miller almost intercepted the next
pass.

He couldn't hold it, but junior
linebacker Trey Cox could, and the
Generals had intercepted Hunter for
the first time.

After Guilford got the ball back,
Hunter drove his team to the W&L
13 before he looked to the end zone.

Furniture Dealers

  

463-2742

  

3 West en St., Lexington
eae (> 0 )

 

 
    
    

' SHOE FIXERS
§ Instant Shoe Repair i
i We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. S

 

FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRA

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization.

 

Plus a chance at $5000 more!

 

This program works!
No investment needed.

Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50

 

 

 

Mason Pope

erals a free kick.

Guilford fielded Ehret’s free kick
and promptly marched to the W&L
six, where the defense came through
again. Williamson, the ODAC defen-
sive player of the week, blitzed and
hit Hunter, causing a fumble. Soph-
omore Phil Spears fell on the ball,
and the Generals hung on for a 28-
22 upset win.

On the afternoon, Renneker com-
pleted 13 of 20 passes for 165 yards
and also rushed 10 times for 45
yards. Pope finished with 99 yards

rushing, while Irons had six catches
for 81 yards.

The defense forced five Guilford
turnovers. Cox led the way with 13
tackles and an interception. William-
son added nine tackles, a sack, a
forced fumble and an interception and
senior Clark Wight added eight tack-
les, deflected two passes and inter-
cepted another.

Quayle set a school record for
extra points in a career with his four
against Guilford. He now has 65
extra points in his career.

This Saturday, the Generals will
look to even their record at 5-5 on
the season against Georgetown. Game
time is 1:30 on Wilson Field.

BOX SCORE

Guilford 1:0 +2 =O
Washington and Lee 14 0 7

W&L-Pope 4 run (Quayle kick)
Guilford-Thompson 1 run (Clodfeiter kick)
W&L-Pope 1 run (Quayle kick)

W&L-Kreis 14 pass from Renneker (Quayle kick)
Guilford-Thompson 1 run (Clodfelter kick)
W&L-Renneker 5 run (Quayle kick)
Guilford-Safety--Ehret tackled in end zone
Guilford-Guarino 4 pass from Hunter (kick field)

Individual Rushing
Guilford-Guarino 9 carries-53 yards, Hunter 11-
52, Thompson 14-35, Privette 1-1, Radford 3-(-
10). W&L-Pope 32-99, Renneker 10-45, Robinett
4-19, Kreis 4-19, Goglia 4-5.

Individual Passing
Guilford-Hunter 14 completions-30 attempts-3
interceptions-216 yards, Radford 1-1-0-50. W&L-
Renneker 13-20-0-165.

Individual Receiving
Guilford-Despres 6 catches-113 yards, Thompson
3-85, Hester 3-36, Johnson 1-20, Womack 1-8,
Guarino 1-4. W&L-Irons 6-81, Pope 4-39, Kreis 2-
28, Hodges 1-9, Suiters 1-8.

 

130 S. Main St.

   
   
 

464-6666 !
Se ) ED) SD DC DO

 

on
Lexington Bike Shop’
Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

 

To Celebrate
A Fly Fisherman’s Blue Ridge

 

 

by Christopher Camuto
(instructor of writing at W&L)

The W&L University Bookstore

invites you to
A Booksigning Party

November 13th - 3:00 p.m.
In the Bookstore

 

 
  
  
     

463-7969

W&L nipped by RC,
comes in fourth

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

One point can make all the dif-
ference in the world. Just ask the
Washington and Lee women’s vol-
leyball team.

In the third-place game in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference tour-
nament, the Generals had Roanoke on
the ropes. They were one point, just
one knockout punch away from their
best season finish ever. They couldn’t
connect.

Roanoke escaped, battered and
bruised, from a 14-7 deficit in the
third and final game to beat the
Generals 16-14 and snatch third place
from W&L.

“One point and we go out with
our best record and our best finish in
the ODAC ever,’’ said head coach
Susan Dittman. ‘‘As it was, we fin-
ished with a losing record overall and
fourth in the [tournament].’’

The Generals, who finished fourth
last year, beat Sweet Briar 15-12, 15-
10, 15-8 in the first round. Sopho-
more Leslie Hess tallied 13 kills and
22 digs while junior co-captain Mena
McGowin added 14 kills.

The win, which clinched a slot in
the semifinals, allowed W&L to con-
centrate their efforts on Eastern Men-
nonite, a team the Generals had a
two games to one lead on earlier this
season before falling.

Unfortunately for W&L, Eastern
Mennonite was hot, dominating early
and often to finish with a 15-6, 15-
2, 15-7 victory. Senior co-captain
Lisa Jay, who handed out 28 assists
against Sweet Briar, recorded only 8
against the Royals.

The Generals faced a quick strik-
ing offense which blew through
blocking attempts and thwarted a
successful passing scheme, two as-

pects of the game Dittman had hoped
to hone in the weeks before the tour-
nament. :

‘‘We had no blocks,’’ said Dit-
tman. “Their offensive was in-
credible.”’

In the semifinals, the Generals
hoped to retaliate against Bridgewater,

who defeated W&L in Lexington :

earlier in the season.

The Generals hung tough early, :
dropping the first game by only 15- ;

10. But Bridgewater shifted into a's
higher gear, taking the next two.
games 15-7 and 15-2 to drop W&L »

into the consolation game.

The semifinal loss, coupled with °

the loss to Roanoke dropped the :
Generals to a fourth place finish, one * °
down from their regular season three- '

way tie for third.

The Generals had spent the week &

before the tourney resting some in- }

juries and developing the intensity

and concentration necessary to carry
them to the championship game.

In the tournament, injuries to
junior Marcy Brown and McGowin
didn’t help the Generals’ cause.
Those injuries, coupled with the
tough loss to Roanoke were difficult
burdens to bear for a team in pursuit
of greatness.

‘‘We were hoping for more,” said
Dittman. .“‘It’s better to shoot high
and fail than not to shoot at all.’’

Jay finished the tournament with
69 assists, bringing her season total
to 519. That’s 100 more than she
dished out all last year when she was
named to the All-ODAC team. Al-
though the senior setter hoped for a
higher finish, the loss didn’t taint
an outstanding career.

“IT had a great time here,’’ she
anid, “7 couldn’ t have asked for any-
thing more.’

Polo rips Dayton to finish
third in Southern tourney

 

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee water
polo team finished out its season last
weekend in the Southern Champion-
ships.

The Generals reached the semi-

his three goals were not enough as
Richmond prevailed 12-9.

W&L reached the semifinals with
a 12-3 win over Mary Washington.
Senior Jon Sbar led the way with
five goals.

W&L sent a capacity crowd at

 

 

Jon Sbar

final round before falling to arch-
rival Richmond. The win was Rich-
mond’s fourth against W&L this
season. The Generals have beaten
Richmond three times.

Junior Will Davis led the Gen-
erals’ attack against the Spiders, but

 

 

 

 

Will Davis

Twombly Pool home with a win in
the consolation round. Davis led the
way with four goals as the Generals
dropped Dayton 12-6.

The Generals finished the season
14-9,

W&L Students, we 0 weloeane ¥ you oe our so » for your next hair cut.
We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

at S. Main St.

 

 

CLASSES

 

 

FORMING

NOW!

HI AND LOW IMPACT AEROBICS=4:15 & 5:30 (CHILD CARE AVAILABLE)

WATCH FOR NEW CLASSES

FEATURES MEMBERSHIPS HOURS
*SCORE™AEROBICS FLOOR $35. /MONTH MON,-FRi.: 10 TO 8
ae CYCLES PRE-PAY DISCOUNT SAT.: 9 TO 5
—_—-> OR YEARLY SUN: 1 TO 5
FREE ior ania
LOCKERROOM SERVICES anniv DISCOUNT
INVITATIONAL CLASSES

16 E. NELSON ST. (ABOVE HUNTER/HUNTRESS)

464—1-FIT

 

 

ann, VA

 

Don’t Be
Disappointed
By Selection & Price

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY.

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportswear has the
best selection of W&L imprinted

T-shirts, sweatshirts, em-
broidered fitted baseball caps
and much more.

We Are Opening
Student Accounts!

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 

oe eee eee eee ew ew

a A it A A

-
SPORTS

Same

.

 

, Senior Craig Hatfield pulls down a rebound against Roanoke
College last year. Hatfield led the ODAC in rebounding and will
' again be a force for the W&L team. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

¢

(~~: SSRIS Ge
By Jay Plotkin
‘ Sports Editor

 

On the surface, it looks like the
1990-91 Washington and Lee basket-
; ball team is the same team it was
last year or the year before.
Although many of the names are
) the same--five starters and 11 letter-
men return from last year’s team —
‘ this is a different team from last
year’s 15-12 squad. s
Not different in names or faces,
- but different in the way it will ap-
proach things this year. Defense will
* definitely come first in 1990-91 ac-
' cording to W&L’s head man, Verne
‘ Canfield.
“We will play a ten-man rotation
‘ this year, with the emphasis on de-
, fense,’’ he said. ‘‘If a player doesn’t
play defense — then he won’t play.
‘Last year we were too offensive
oriented. We tried to outscore people,
“our defense slipped and we were
» ineffective. Our defense will not slip
this year.’’
Last year’s team scored 77.5
) points a game last year while. giving
up 75. The 75 points per game al-
' lowed came about because the Gen-
_ erals sat back and let the offense
come to them. Canfield said that will
’ not be the case in this, his 27th sea-
, son at the helm in Lexington.
_ “We are trying to avoid a passive
i defense where we sit back and let the
, Offense dictate to us,’’ he said. ‘‘We

will attack people with our defense.”’

Senior co-captain Mike Holton
was second on the team in steals last
year with 26. He said the team will
indeed pick up the tempo defensively.

“Defense has been the big em-
phasis from day one,’’ he said,
“We've been working on picking up
full court and trapping a lot. Last
year we sat back and basically let the
offense do what it wanted. We will
definitely pick up our defensive tem-
po this year.”’

Offensively, W&L will look to
score quickly off turnovers created

from the defensive pressure, but when

it can’t, the Generals have a host of
people who can put the ball in the
basket.

Leading the way inside is two-
time NABC All-American Chris
Jacobs. Jacobs, a 6-6 senior, averaged
18.3 points per game last year and
has led the team in scoring 32 times
over the past two years.

Jacobs is joined down low by two
more seniors. Co-captain Craig Hat-
field is the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rebounding champion
from a year ago. The 6-4 forward
pulled down 7.5 boards a game to go
along with his 10.6 scoring average.
He also connected on 58 percent of
his shots last year. Hatfield led the
team in steals last year with 28.

Joining Hatfield and Jacobs is 6-
5 forward Ed Hart. Hart missed 14

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ¢Perfumes
Charge Accounts ® Free Delivery

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

but returned late to score 70 points
in the last five games.

To bolster the inside experience is
more of the same in the backcourt.
Seniors Holton and Jim Casey are
back to run the show for W&L.

Holton averaged 12 points a game
while leading the team in three point
shooting and assists. Casey brings
with him a scoring average of 10.2 to
go along with 61 assists.

But the Generals are not just five
deep. Canfield plans to use a 10-man
rotation. That means he’s still got
talent on the bench.

Pat Gallavan, another senior, re-
turns and brings with him a renewed
outside touch. Gallavan struggled at
the beginning of last season but fin-
ished strong, leading the team in
scoring twice last year. Gallavan is
the team’s three-point specialist. He
set a school-record with six three
pointers in one game last year.

Juniors Mark Melton and Courtney
Penn are defensive specialists. Penn
led the team in rebounding this pre-
season and is the team’s best one-
on-one defender. Melton may be the
most versatile player on the team.

“We have used Mark at four
positions on offense and defense,”’
said Canfield. ‘‘Now we're letting
him play defensive point guard. He
gives us depth at every position.

“Mark is playing with a lot of
confidence right now. He will have
some games where he will come
close to carrying the team by him-
Seu

Also retuming are twin towers
John Witherington and Franklin Prid-
gen. Both give the Generals big
bodies to use in the low post.

“John is starting to develop the
offensive skills we knew he had,”
said Canfield. ‘‘Franklin is probably
playing closer to his potential than
anyone else on the team. I won't
hesitate to spot-substitute him for any
of our big players. He has a great

team, different team

work ethic, and it’s paying off.’’

But that’s not all. Sophomore
guards Bryan Brading and Bryan
Watkins will both see valuable time
this year.

“Bryan Brading is really pressing
Jim [Casey] for the starting point
guard spot,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘I would
say Bryan has run number one point
guard close to one-third of the time.
The only thing holding him back is
experience and the confidence that
comes with experience.’’

Sophomore Keith Faulkner didn’t
play much last year, but he caught
Canfield’s eye this preseason and will
definitely see time.

“Keith is the one player who has

moved up the most this year,’’ said
Canfield. ‘‘He has played well in
spurts and has what I call defensive
anticipation. That will get him some
playing time this year.’’

Canfield says the offense will
concentrate on balance, with the
emphasis on the inside. The team hit
13 of 26 three pointers in a scrim-
mage last week against Shenandoah,
but struggled inside.

“It was a positive scrimmage in
that we found out where we are and
what we need to do,’’ said Canfield,
““We found out what we need to do,
now we just need to connect the
dots.’’

“Practice has gone well,’’ said
Holton. ‘‘Coach always stresses con-
centration and intensity. In past years,
we've only been able to get one of
the two down. But now we’re getting
them both at the same time, and
we're starting to put things together.”’

Said Canfield, ‘‘We’ve had some
good practices. Practices have been
tough and the’ competition within
practice has been intense. We’ll be
ready to play when the season

starts.’’

  
 

 

Junior John Witherington gets a lay-up against Roanoke last year.
Witherington will play a big part in W&L's low post offense this
games last year with a stress fracture, Year. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

A Quaker sandwich

Sophomore Kevin Gorman (60) and senior Brad Miller hit
Guilford quarterback Calvin Hunter at the same time. As a
result of the hit, Hunter had to leave the game. Staff photo by
Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

qe

 

 

 

 

Bows.
Paper.
' Gift cards.
Ribbon

Shipping boxes.
UPS,

PO
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 7 am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 

 

Listen to
Generals’
football

on WLUR...

play-by-play by
Jay Plotkin,

color by

Hunter Catlett
and Greg Kiehl,
All-Conference
nose guard.

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

Right >

* George's
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri, 8-5

Cue,

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
‘With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450
ae e Redken ® Paul Mitchel « Seba ae 2
Net mes

)

   

 
   
   
     

 

~<a | AO

    
  

HOUSE

Restaurant

30.N. Main St., Lexington

 

 

WILLSON-

EI

Reservations are recommended

      

 

 

 

 

 

Practice what
you preach

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

 

How many times do I have to hear a major college football coach say
that — if given the opportunity to go for the win or the tie — he'll go
for the win before he actually does?

Once in a while, coaches will actually go for the win instead of the tie.
But, sadly enough for college football fans around, those incidents are
overshadowed by those~coaches who feel the need toplay for the tie
rather than the win.

That Mississippi State lost to Auburn two weeks ago is poetic justice.
Mississippi State scores a touchdown to cut Auburn’s lead to 17-16 with
less than one minute left, and elects to play for the tie and loses. WHY?

Why on earth would a team like lowly Mississippi State, given a
golden opportunity to upset a top five team (at the time), elect to play
for the tie? What is there to gain from a tie except that it’s not a loss?
Justice was served as Auburn blocked the kick to preserve the win.

Not that I’m supporting Pat Dye, because he did the same thing in the
1988 Sugar Bowl against Syracuse. Trailing by three with time for one
last play, Dye elects to kick a field goal to tie a bowl game. Why would
a team practice for six weeks to play one game, and then go for the tie?

Most recently, the ‘‘I really don’t want to win’’ bug bit Virginia coach
George Welsh, and it probably cost him a shot at the national title. With
over two minutes left, after his team failed to score a touchdown with
four plays from inside the Georgia Tech one-yard line, Welsh elected to
kick a tying field goal with the ball at the five-yard line instead of taking
a shot at the win. In the face of 47,000 fans and a national television
audience, Welsh shunned a shot a glory for a chance at a tie.

I think there is more glory in losing than tying — if you lose going for
the win. Nebraska lost a national championship in 1983 because it went
for two points and the win against Miami. Florida State lost to Miami
because they went for two and the win and came up empty. Earlier this
year, Michigan lost a controversial game to Michigan State when they
went for two and lost.

Our coach says it best, and he’s not a major college coach. It’s just
un-American to practice all week and then play for the tie. If you say
you'll go for the win — act like a shoe and just do it.

 

 

 

11S.Ra

        
  
    
 

Lexington, VA 24450

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE i]

Lee'Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales

70?.463-3478 Lee Hi Restaurant 1-800-768-LEHI

COWL MUSIC. 3

ae 3

464-4050

 

ee

ndolph Street

All new CDs priced
at least $1 under list price

MasterCard & Visa accepted
Student checks with ID

PVPVPVLIVIV PY POP PV IVIV AP VAPVIVLIVVA.

appagoWwo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.

(703)463-5988

PPV! AP\LPVLPV PVP PVP LP PV LPO LPO LP OPO OVOP OPO

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Several Washington and Lee students
done, they will have one less thin
according to the list. File photo.

go tubing down the Maury River. Once that’s
g that they must do before they graduate,

New requirements
for graduation

 

By Eleanore Robinson, Fraser Bowen and
staff reports

 

During this week of registration, everyone’s
scrambling to find classes that fulfill general
education requirements.

The faculty says we need to have all those
classes for a complete W&L education, but
there’s a lot more seniors have to do in this
unique little haven before they graduate.

«Tube down the Maury River.

*Go to a General’s football game and watch the
whole game.

*Eat a big breakfast at Lee-hi truck stop at 2
a.m. and a shake at Lloyd’s after hours.

«Get though some of the underground tunnels
beneath W&L (take a flashlight and a friend).
*Try to catch a Cadaver Society member so we
all can find out who in the world runs around
the Hill taping skull posters to trees.

*Go to the apartment parties in September at
Hollins College.

*Get a Blow Job at the Palms on your 21st
birthday and a hurricane glass from Spanky’s.
«Watch an open Honor Trial (but not be the
subject of one).

*Take a class from Mr. Sidney Coulling in the
English Department and Professor Jefferson
Davis Futch in the History Department.

*See a drama department production, especially
since they'll soon be in the Lenfest Performing

Arts Center.

*Go to a Roanoke basketball game and see the
fraternity pledges.

*Buy a W&L belt and a gray W&L sweatshirt.
eWatch a Virginia Military Institute parade,
every Friday at 4 p.m.

*Go to Foxfield.

*Go Kroger-ing after midnight.

eWatch Texans try to throw snowballs in front
of the Co-op.

Catch a glimpse of President Wilson outside of
Lee Chapel.

*See General Lee’s actual tomb and the muse-
um beneath Lee Chapel.

*Run the Chessie Trail.

*Get a parking ticket ripped to pieces by Baner.
*Ride in the dryers at Lloyd’s.

*Go to Natural Bridge: the wax museum, the
bridge and the zoo.

«See a movie at the drive-in during the spring.
*See the sunset from the top of big House
Mountain.

*See the sunrise at least once from the Com-
merce School computer room, Liberty Hall and
the Wilson Field press box.

*Fool around on the Colonnade.

*Bicycle through Lexington.

¢Watch the shotgun start of Fraternity Rush.
*Hear them call your name at graduation.
EDITOR'S NOTE: Commerce School majors
working enthusiastically on their cases on
Wednesday night contributed to this story.

af
~ Fast

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

Burr warms
W&L campus

By Carli Flippen
Staff Reporter

 

 

Unearthing information about William ‘‘Burr’’ Datz,

head of the Catholic Campus Ministry, proved both | 8 p.m.

challenging and simple at the same time.
When first assigned this story I thought, ‘‘No problem,

I know who Burr is and a little bit about him. He’s a | 8p.m.

well known face on campus. Finding out about him
should be pretty painless.’’

Unfortunately when I began asking around about him,
I found most people were unable to tell me more than
sketchy details I already knew. Head of Catholic Campus
Ministry. Plays in a bluegrass band, Wildgrass. University

alumnus. Hardly enough to get started. 7 p.m.

Finally, I realized the only way to get to the article

would be to call Burr, ask him about the little I knew, | 8P-m.

and hope he would fill in the rest.

After speaking with him for only a few minutes, Burr
proved a very open and candid person to speak with and
get to know. Burr very willingly told all when asked
about his nickname.

He picked it up when he was attending Catholic high

school. His older brother decided to take him on a double | 4 p.m.

date, to teach him the ropes. They took their dates to a

drive-in movie. When his brother ‘‘went horizontal’’ with | 8 p.m.

his date, Burr was left to his own devices with his date.
Following the movie star’s lead, he tried brushing his
date’s hair over her shoulder. But the November tempera-
ture had chilled his hands and when he brushed her neck
she said, ‘‘Burr, your hands are cold.’’

This alone bought him some ribbing; however,

basketball practice a few days later solidified his name for | 4 p.m.

good. The coach was discussing the a game plan. In

assigning Burr to cover one opponent all day, the coach | 4 p.m.

told him, ‘‘Datzy, you have to be a burr in his jock.”’
Burr said that the two references in such close proximi-

ty were more than most of the seniors could take and the | g p.m,

name stuck.

After high school, Datz went on to study at
Washington and Lee. He was a Spanish major, student
director of intramural sports, golf and basketball team
member, an administrative assistant for the basketball
team after an injury, and a member of the Delta Tau
Delta fraternity.

After graduating with the class of ‘75, he went on to
teach at a Catholic grammar school for a few years before
returning to the W&L campus. Upon returning, he worked
first in food service before moving over to security.

Burr is now an employee of the Catholic Diocese of
Richmond. He is in charge of Catholic Campus Ministry

|

for W&L, VMI, Southern Seminary Junior College, and 8 p.m.

to the W&L Law School. He said the purpose of the
ministry is to form a community to pass the faith and
educate for peace.

 

 

3&7p.m.

3:30 p.m.

7 p.m.

1:30 p.m.

12 Noon

1 p.m.

3 p.m.

4 p.m.

WEEKLY CALENDAR

NOVEMBER §

 

 

Legal Ethics Institute (through Nov. 11).

Registration for Winter Term 1991 ends.

Theatre Auditions for The Skin of Our Teeth. Experimental
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

MATH COLLOQUIUM: "Shortest Networks, Minimal Surfaces,
and Undergraduate Research," Frank Morgan, Institute for
Advanced Study, Princeton. Room 6, Robinson Hall.
Refreshments at 3 p.m. in Room 2. Public invited.

POLITICS FILMFEST: Soylent Green. Room 221, Commerce
School.

FILM SOCIETY: The Wannsee Conference (Germany, 1987),
directed by Heinz Schirk. Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public
invited.

LEGAL ETHICS LECTURE: "Contemporary Challenges to
Legal Ethics," Robert F. Drinan, Georgetown University
Law Center. Classroom "E," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Georgetown University. Wilson
Field.

POLITICS FILMFEST: Soylent Green. Room 221, Commerce
School.

FILM SOCIETY: The Wannsee Conference (Germany, 1987).
Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: WATER POLO: Eastern Championships,
Annapolis.

CONFERENCE: "Justice and the Future of Capitalism.” Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

Conference Lecture by Hugo Assmann, Universidade
Metodista de Piracicaba.

Conference Lecture by Michael Novak, American Enterprise
Institute, Washington, D.C.

AWAY ATHLETICS: WRESTLING: V.M.I. Keydet Invitational
(10 ot

CONFERENCE: "Justice and the Future of Capitalism.” Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

Conference Lecture by Max Stackhouse, Andover Newton
Theological School.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Off-Campus
Job Search. Room 109, University Center. Deadline for
Resume Drop Ill (Dec. companies). CD&P Office.

Conference Panel Discussion. Assmann, Novak, and
Stackhouse.

W&L Employees Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Lunch.
Room 114, University Center.

EAST ASIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "Mahikari: A Spiritual
Movement in Japan and the United States," Gates
Brelsford, W&L '73. Northen Auditorium, University Libran

BOOK SIGNING: Christopher Camuto, W&L department of
English, will sign copies of his book, "A Fly Fisherman's
Blue Ridge." W&L Bookstore. Public invited.

CD&P: Self-Assessment for Sophomores. Room 109,
University Center.

CONTACT LECTURE: "On the First Amendment," Melvin E.
Bradford, University of Dallas, and author of The
Reactionary Imperative. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

 

 

CORK

 

2 PIN CAIRRINIAL

bl Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money. |
You do not need to be a League bowler fe volt”

 

 

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game

Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

©Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night

11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM-
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM-
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

   
     

Departure Time
Friday, Nov. 16

8:00 A.M.
1:00 P.M.
4:30 P.M.

 

2 AM

  

  
 
 
  

   

1AM

NEED A RIDE
TO THE
ROANOKE AIRPORT?

Catch The
Kathekon Thanksgiving
Holiday Shuttle

$20 Round Trip

Depart University Center

* No $40+ car parking charge
= * Cheaper than airport limo or taxi
Return Reservation form and
advance payment to Joel Smith, Alumni Office
Deadline Tuesday, Nov. 13

 

     
   
  
 

 

 

Return Times
Sunday, Nov. 25
2:30 P.M.

5:30 P.M.

10:30 P.M.
Depart Roanoke Airport

  
 

Check which shuttle time is preferred:

   

 

 

 

   

Phone #.

Name
Friday, Nov. 16:

Address 8:00 a.m. 2:30 p.m.
jaca ae Sa Se

SCOT. ccm 1000 Dh

 

      

LO PDA OO OF Ox

    

IO OO PIS PPP LAPD
PRESS DSSS SSS FEE

 

 

~ e

 
