 

¢

“The liberation of Kuwait has begun”

Che King-tum Phi -

JAN 18 199]

 

" VOLUME 90, NO. 16

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

W&L student

Fr

 

' By Greg Patterson and John Foster
Of The Ring-tum Phi staff

A Washington and Lee sophomore

» Was arrested last week at the Sigma
Phi Epsilon house on charges of

* smuggling and possession of drugs.

; Ulysses

Shiu-ting Hui
* was arrested
Thursday _ by
federal agents
+ after accepting
a package
containing
» about one

ounce of
‘ hashish that he

sent himself
from his home
+ in Hong Kong. Ulysses Hul

After Hui was arrested, he gave
the agents permission to search his
+ room, where they found approximate-
ly three ounces of marijuana.

The package of hashish was sent
, to Lexington by Hui while he was

home over Christmas break. Although
’ Hui lives in Hong Kong, he is a U.S.

citizen.
Customs agent David Borden said
‘ officials in Alaska discovered the
hashish during a routine search as
Hui’s package entered the country.
) According to John Flippen, former
president of SPE, a Treasury agent
’ came to the house Thursday disguised
« as a Federal Express delivery man.

After Hui signed for the package, the
’ agent identified himself and placed
Hui under arrest.

Hui spent Thursday night in the
Rockbridge County jail in Lexington.
1 He was arraigned before a U.S.
magistrate in Harrisonburg on Friday
and spent the weekend in the
, Rockingham County jail.

Hui was released on Monday on
* $150,000 property bond after a
hearing in U.S. District Court in

 

 

 

 

 

arrested on
drug charges

. Sophomore suspected
‘of possession,

smuggling

Charlottesville. Hui’s parents flew to
the U.S. to post his bond, according
to Flippen.

Hui’s preliminary hearing is
scheduled for Jan. 28. Meanwhile, he
is under the supervision of federal
probation officers, according to Rob-
ert Harper of the probation office,
and must ‘‘be on good behavior.’

Borden said Hui could still face
state drug charges. ‘‘It would not be
double jeopardy for the state to press
charges. That is for the state attorney
to decide,”’ said Borden.

Borden said the marijuana found
in Hui’s room filled ‘‘three-quarters
of a Ziploc bag’’ and might be
enough to support an intent to
distribute charge.

In a letter of apology to members
of SPE, Hui said the maximum
possible sentence he could face is
five years in prison.

Despite his arrest, Hui has not
withdrawn from W&L. According to
Flippen, Hui is still attending classes
and is living outside of Lexington.
He was expelled from SPE Thursday
night after his arrest.

"At this point, he continues to be
enrolled at W&L," said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison. "I have talked
to his mother about his status."

Hui’s case will go before the
Student Conduct Committee, Howison
said. The SCC will have to-determine
if Hui planned to distribute the drugs.

"Obviously, if there was the intent
to distribute drugs, the consequences
could be worse than simple posses-
sion,” Howison said.

Hui’s arrest could also have an
effect on SPE, which has been on
critical probation since October. The
presence of illegal drugs in the house
breaks probation rules and could
jeopardize the chapter’s existence at
W&L.

Seven SPE’s opt for early alumni
Status after reorganization. Page 4.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

W&L students Sharon Widemayer, Scott Howe and Ann Walsh light
a candle as part of the “peace vigil” they organized outside the
University Library Tuesday night. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Peaceful protest

War overshadows student ‘peace vigil’

 

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

As the United Nations deadline for Iraq to
withdraw from Kuwait drew closer, a group
of about 15 Washington and Lee students
conducted a ‘‘peace vigil’’~ outside the
University Library, a protest against a war
that would begin in less than 24 hours.

The peace vigil was organized by senior
Sharon Widemayer with the help of senior
Anne Walsh and sophomore Scott Howe. The
three provided, with their own money, candles
and trays of sand to set the candles in for
students from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.

‘T just had this idea to do this because I
believe no matter what your political views
are, everyone wants peace,’’ said Widemayer.

Widemayer said about 200 people lit
candles, including five faculty members, a
W&L security guard, students who made the

trip to the library just to light a candle and
many students just walking by.

“‘There was a group who came with
American flags I guess to counter-protest me,
but after they asked me what I was doing
this for and I talked to them, they lit candles,
too,’’ Widemayer said.

Walsh said she heard only one person
speak-up who was opposed to the vigil.

‘‘He was walking by and said ‘support
our troops, don’t protest,’ ’’ said Walsh. ‘‘I
told him support our (young people’s) lives.’’

Widemayer said she thought of holding
the vigil after she found out someone from
her hometown had been killed when a boat
transporting troops from ship to shore in the
Persian Gulf overturned.

‘Realistically, I think there will be war,’’
Widemayer predicted.

‘IT know President Bush will never know
we lit candles, but I just hope somehow war
will be avoided.”’

 

 

JANUARY 17, 1991

Students
to organize
city boycott

New state law would
prohibit taxing student: cars

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

A student boycott of Lexington city businesses in
protest to the tax on student vehicles was endorsed unan-
imously by student leaders this week and is scheduled to
begin Monday.

Meanwhile the Virginia state senate yesterday pas-
sed a house bill 28-11 ‘‘that requires personal property
taxes on college students’ vehicles to be paid in their
hometowns rather than the community where they attend
school,’’ according to the Associated Press.

The Executive Committee, Student Bar Association,
Interfratemnity Council and Student Conduct Committee
unanimously endorsed the boycott resolution, scheduled
tentatively to last one week.

The Panhellenic Council did not vote because of the
ongoing sorority rush, but PHC President Nancy Mitchell
said the group informally supported the boycott.

IFC Vice President Michael Skarda, co-author of the
resolution with Charles Kranich and EC Vice President
Raymond Welder, said last night that the boycott will
begin as planned unless Virginia Governor Douglas Wil-
der endorses the bill and it is recognized by Lexington
Mayor H. E. ‘‘Buddy’’ Derrick.

Wilder’s Press Secretary, Laura Dillard, said the
govemor ‘‘has not had an opportunity to see the bill’’
and ‘‘won’t comment’’ until he does. She said the
govemor has seven days to act on the bill.

EC President Tom Hatcher said the boycott will be
‘‘open-ended’’ in case one week is insufficient.

Lexington last week announced its intention to begin
collecting the tax this month, a measure Derrick said is
required by state law.

The tax, 4.25 percent the value of the vehicle
according to Derrick, must be paid on all vehicles
garaged in Lexington for the majority of the year,
regardless of the owner’s residency status.

Students who pay a personal property tax in their
hometown are not required to pay that amount again.

‘The university, through its utility taxes and
grants,’’ said Skarda, ‘‘more than pays for the services
the city provides,’’

The resolution, which contains data from a study
Skarda said was commissioned by the university trea-
surer but has not been released, states, ‘‘using the most
conservative multipliers, that the University generates at
least $18.5 million annually for the city’s economy.
Student expenditures account for 55.6% of this figure.’’

Though university property is by sete law tax
exempt, the resolution says that W&L ‘‘compensates the
city through various grants - moneys the University is
not legally bound to pay.”’

QO) Please see BOYCOTT page 4

EC to study new White Book wording

SCC chairman says broader definitions could cause jurisdictional problems

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Certain cases of student misconduct
might be handled by the Executive Committee
instead of other school judicial boards if
proposals made by The White Book Revisions
Committee are approved.

The WBRC favors changing White
Book wording that says students ‘‘will not
lie, cheat or steal’’ by adding ‘‘or act dishon-
orably.”’

Another proposal, on which the WBRC
was undecided, would change notation from
‘‘dismissed’’ to ‘‘withdrawn’’ on transcripts
of students found guilty in open hearings.

By changing the wording, WBRC Chair-
man Claude Worrell, ‘91L, said the commit-
tee is ‘‘making explicit something already
implicit in the honor code.’’ He cited a White

 

Book clause stating that the Honor System
‘‘applies to any conduct considered dishonor-
able by the student generation involved.”’

EC Vice President Raymond Welder
agreed with Worrell that the EC can investi-
gate conduct or any other matter, but warned
that ‘‘a great deal of damage can be done by
an overzealous executive committee.’’

Welder said the EC might be forced to
decide an honor accusation over a ‘‘drunk in
public’’ or find itself ‘‘running around catch-
ing drug dealers.’’

Student Conduct Committee Chairman
Thomas Spurgeon said he foresees possible
conflicts in jurisdiction between the SCC, the
Confidential Review Committee and the EC.

‘The problem of what is dishonorable
behavior will be going to each committee,”’
Spurgeon said. ‘‘It will cause confusion over
where a case goes and who decides.”’

EC President Tom Hatcher said the EC,

CRC and SCC have worked together before.

‘‘When something is turned in not under
our investigative authority or better served in
another committee, we will make the switch,’’
he said. ‘‘I think the elected representatives
can make the judgment.’’

Hatcher also advocated changing the
revision to say, ‘‘lie, cheat, steal or in other
way act dishonorably,’’ to clarify that lying,
cheating and stealing are themselves dishonor-
able acts.

Students dispute the WBRC proposal,
some questioning the EC’s ability to define
dishonorable conduct.

‘‘What’s dishonorable to you is not
necessarily dishonorable to someone else,”’
junior Bo Russell said.

Roschelle Mack, a senior, said she
favors the proposed change. ‘‘You can be
deceptive and not lie, cheat or steal,’’ she
said, ‘‘Maybe it will make people think twice

'

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

President Bush announced last night that
Operation Desert Storm and the ‘Liberation
of Kuwait’’ have begun, and still there has
been no indication from any high-ranking
officials that a reinstatement of the draft is
being considered.

‘My understanding is that a draft is not
even contemplated at this time for the situa-
tion in the Middle East,’’ said Lieut. Col.
Joel J. Snow of the Washington and Lee
ROTC department. ‘‘There would have to be
a true national emergency for the civilian
leadership to even consider a draft.’’

A spokesman for Selective Service head-
quarters in Washington, D.C., Larry Walt-

 

 

Members of the Sigma Chi Fraternity intently follow the developments in the

Middle East. Staff photo by Brian Root.

man, said the same thing.
‘There is no indication by the president
or by Congress that a draft would be used,”’

about what they do, like date rape.”’

On the proposal to note ‘‘withdrawn’’
on the transcripts of students found guilty in
open hearings, Worrell said the WBRC was
**split down the middle.’’ The board decided
to defer the question to student opinion.

Currently, the ‘‘withdrawn’’ notation
appears on the transcript of a student found
guilty in closed hearing, but ‘‘dismissed’’ is
noted after a guilty verdict in open hearing.

Rep. Willard Dumas, EC senior and
1989-90 president, said the W&L Honor
System has come under fire from other scho-
ols for being ‘‘punitive’’ after a student found
guilty in open hearing leaves W&L.

Worrell explained that ‘‘dismissed’’ on
a transcript makes it difficult for a student to
gain entrance to another school. He said it
may take a law student ‘‘three or four years’’
to get into another law school.

Hatcher said that if a student leaves

Waltman said.

In 1971, college students became eligible
for the draft.

‘A draft at this time would be more fair
and equitable than during the Vietnam era,”’
Snow said.

Currently, according to Snow, about 15
million young men are eligible for the draft.

‘About 97 percent of those who should
have registered have, and that’s a very high
percentage,’’ he said.

Men who have their 20th birthday during
the year of the draft would be the first to
be drafted, Waltman said. If more men are
needed the following year, men turning 20
that year would again be the first chosen.

If more men are needed in the same
year, those tuming 21 would be drafted.
This process would continue up to the age
of 25. Waltman did not indicate how 18
and 19-year-olds fit into this scheme.

‘Twenty is considered the best age’’ for

W&L ‘‘with ‘dismissed’ on his transcript, I
have no doubt in my mind that he has com-
mitted an honor violation... . There should be
some punishment.’’

Hatcher and WBRC member Hill Good-
speed believe that equal penalties encourage
appeals from students found guilty in closed
hearings who ‘‘know they are guilty.”’

Worrell and Welder said the traumatic
experience of an open hearing discourages
appeals. ‘‘All of a sudden, you're airing your
own dirty laundry in public,’’ Worell said.

A public forum to discuss the proposed
revisions will be held tomorrow from 2 to 4
p.m. in the EC room in the University Cen-
ter. Representatives from the WBRC and EC
will be present. The EC will discuss the pro-
posed revisions at its next regular meeting,
Monday at 5 p.m. in the EC room.

White Book revisions summary: Page 3

Draft low priority, officials say

the draft ‘‘in the U.S., although other Euro-
pean countries draft younger men, and Iraq
will draft anyone,’’ Waltman said.

Waltman said that if a decision for a
draft is made, the draft would take place in
the following manner:

The Selective Service System would
conuuct a lottery on national television in
Washington, D.C., to establish a priority of
call dates throughout the year.

One container would hold cards num
bered 1 through 366. Another would contain
all the dates in the draft year.

If a card chosen from the first drum has
the number one and the card chosen from
the second drum has the date August 4, the
first round of call-ups would be those men
who turn 20 on that date.

Similarly, if one card has the number 30
and the second has the date May 8, the 30th
round of call-ups would be those tuming
twenty on May 8.
 

OPINION
Boycott talks

Lexington Mayor Buddy Derrick’s insistence on taxing cars
owned by Washington and Lee students is unreasonable. However,
the week-long boycott of city businesses planned by W&L
students is just as unreasonable. Frankly, spending time and
energy waging an economic war in Lexington, Virginia is nothing
short of ridiculous.

Students who say that the numbers show undeniably that W&L
has paid more than its fair share of local expenses are correct.
Indeed, the revenue generated by the student car tax will be
minimal because the majority of W&L students pay some sort of
property tax at home and will, according to Virginia law, be
exempt from a Lexington tax. Furthermore, the money Mayor
Derrick will spend trying to collect the tax will further cut into
his revenues as W&L President John Wilson has refused to
relinquish a list of W&L student car registrations. In brief, the
mayor’s decision to collect the car tax is fundamentally flawed.

However, the boycott proposal is flawed as well. Assuming
organizers can convince almost every student to participate, the
boycott is indeed conceptually sound. The economic welfare of
local businesses is certainly tied to the welfare of the city budget
in terms of the city’s tax base, and re-election odds for city
officials. But students must realize that the boycott is a temporary
solution to a perennial issue. The current administration will one
day be replaced by newcomers who will once again try to tax
cars. It seems the energy spent on the boycott would be better
spent on a more permanent solution. One such solution would be
a program to teach students to prove with paperwork that property
taxes on their cars are paid at home.

Choosing a more permanent solution would not signal the the
students defeat. It would signal that W&L students are reasonable
people willing to find creative solutions to difficult problems. Of
course the cancellation of a boycott should be compensated with
flexibility on the part of Mayor Derrick. The mayor should make
it easier for students to prove that they pay almost identical types
of taxes that may be simply termed differently in their home
towns.

Both students and the mayor should give each other a chance.
To do anything else would be a rather drastic and unreasonable
step. All that will be left here after an economic war is a broken
community. We have much more to concern ourselves with today.

Lip-synching
morality

In an ordinary week, we would have included a story about
the upcoming Lip-synch contest, to be held for the benefit of the
Washington and Lee Superdance. As you have probably noticed,
this has not been an ordinary week and several other stories have
necessarily taken precedence.

Nevertheless, there is an important detail about this year’s
contest that must be brought to the public’s attention. This year,
each entry must have their costumes approved by the judges
before the contest. In a memo delivered to us last week, Jerry
Darrell mentions that the now-famous FIJI Love Natives would
have been disqualified under the current rules.

Our message, to both Mr. Darrell and those who agree with
him, is a simple one Lighten up!

One of the unalienable rights in our democracy is the right to
make a complete fool of yourself in public if the need arises. Of
course, the sight of the Natives romping around a stage on
national TV dressed in G-Strings may not be your idea of positive
P.R. for the school, but we hardly think Mr. Darrell is in a
position to protect either the school or the students from what
might be termed unseemly behavior.

 

— PL

Quote of the week

“That picture sucks. Ruscio looks like a caged monkey. Do
you want me to touch him up with a pen?”’

— Phi Editorial Cartoonist Jeff Woodland, complaining
about the quality of the mugshot of Dean Ruscio that
appears on Page 3.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

 

 

Gj

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Ce FEM DW

T'M STILL HIDING UNDER MYDESK,

PETER AND DouN ARE STILL
BY THE WINDOW,

AND HERE’s JOUN MADDEN With
Hig LATEST ANALYSIS OF EVENTS...

Why we

gee
should not

Pot

 

AMAL)

Pe aay

RSMO

a

 

VA

get militarily

involved in the Middle East crisis

 

MY VIEW
By Scott Howe

 

This is my first ‘‘My View’’ for the Phi. I
have intended to write others, and I am sure that

many students have had similar intentions, I, hope.,

that this response to Mr. Klank’s ‘‘My View’’ in
thé January 10 edition of the Phi speaks for at
least a few of my peers who remain silent out of
a sense of futility.

Mr. Klank asks, ‘*What idiot would even try to
compare the current Middle East crisis with the
Vietnam War?’’ I have found one similarity which
is both simple and powerful: the willful sacrifice of
human life. As I write this, I do not know whether
the crisis will escalate to an armed conflict, but it
appears unavoidable that it will.

In any case, we have placed thousands of lives
in jeopardy. Granted they are soldiers, men and

women who have dedicated their lives to protect

the interests of the United
human beings.

I respect their brave dedication. I also can
understand Mr. Klank’s zealous morale. It must

States, but they are

“require such morale to be a soldier, to kill and to

If armed men invaded a home in this country,
killed those in their way, stole what they wanted
and then announced the house was now theirs -
- no-one would hesitate about what must be
done. And that is why we cannot hesitate about
what must be done halfway around the world: in
Kuwait.

There is much in the modern world that is
subject to doubts or questions — washed in
shades of gray. But not the brutal oppression of
Saddam Hussein against a peaceful, sovereign
nation and its people. It’s black and white. The
facts are clear., The choice unambiguous.

Right vs. wrong.

The terror Saddam Hussein has imposed upon
Kuwait violates every principle of human decen-
cy. Listen to what Amnesty International has
documented. ‘‘Widespread abuses of human
rights have been perpetrated by Iraqi for-
ces...arbitrary arrest and detention without trial of
thousands...widespread torture..imposition of the
death penalty and the extrajudicial execution of
hundreds of unarmed civilians, including
children.”’

Including children, There’s no horror that
could make this a more obvious conflict of good
vs. evil. The man who used chemical warfare on
his own people — once again including children -
- now oversees public hangings of dissenters.
And daily his troops commit atrocities against
Kuwaiti citizens.

This brutality has reverberated throughout the
entire world. If we do not follow the dictates of
our inner moral compass and stand up for
human life, then his lawlessness will threaten
the peace and democracy of the emerging New
World Order we now see: this long dreamed-
of vision we’ve all worked toward for so long.

A year after the joyous dawn of freedom’s
light in Eastern Europe, a dark evil has des-
cended in another part of the world. But we have

 

 

the chance — and _we have the obligation — to

die. It is a service that I could not perform in the
present situation.

I realize that it is impractical to envision the
United Nations’ force pulling out tomorrow and
Iraq’s troops voluntarily leaving Kuwait as well,
therefore, I will not argue for such a resolution. I
will, however, argue against the principles that I
feel have led our nation and its allies worldwide to

‘the brink of war, with Iraq. sd

 

We have allowed bloodshed
to replace diplomacy. We
have placed ourselves in a
situation where force is our
only option.

Our nation has become the world’s police
officer, a very selective and often violent enforcer
of justice. Thousands of violations of human rights
occur daily in our world, yet our nation’s leaders
seem sensitive only to those which directly affect
our nation’s economy.

Consider for a moment the idea of an
American-led coalition of U.N. troops occupying
South Africa to establish a legitimate people’s

LETTER

 

 

stop ruthless aggression.

I] have been in war. IT have known the terror
of combat. And | tell you this with all my heart:
I don’t want there to be war ever again. I am
determined to do absolutely everything possible
in the search for a peaceful resolution to this
crisis — but only if the peace is genuine, if it
rests on principle, not appeasement.

But while we search for that answer, in the
Gulf young men and women are putting their
own lives on hold in order to stand for peace in
our world and for the essential value of human
life itself. Many are younger than my own
children. Your age, most of them. Doing tough
duty for something they believe in.

—

 

! am determined to do ab-
solutely everything possible
in the search for a peaceful
resolution to this crisis—
but only if the peace is
genuine, if it rests on
principle, not appeasement.

Let me tell you about one of the soldiers over
there, S.F.C. Terry Hatfield, a young man from
Georgia. He sent me a Christmas card. And this
is what he wrote,

‘Mr. President, I just wanted you to know
my soldiers and I are ready to do whatever
mission you decide. Freedom as we know and
enjoy has been taken away from another country
and must be restored. Although we are separated
from family, friends, loved ones, we will do what
must be done...We stand ready and waiting. God
Bless you and the U.S.A.”’

Terry understands the moral obligation that
has compelled our extraordinary multi-national
coalition to make this stand in the Gulf. To look

 

aeaANY |

government. The thought is absurd, I agree.

However, the idea of using military force to ‘
free Kuwait is even more absurd. Our leaders have
lacked the foresight to develop an effective foreign
policy in the Middle East. For almost a decade we ‘
watched Iran and Iraq rage one of the bloodiest
wars of our time.

I ask: where was our coalition of nations which
now occupy Saudi Arabia when that war was

taking place? Did we naively hope that Iran and
Iraq would each annihilate the other? Is peace in
all the world, between all nations, not a worthy
priority?

We have allowed bloodshed to replace
diplomacy. We have placed ourselves in a situation
where force is our only option. For too long, we
have refused to recognize the true depth of the
tension in the Middle East. We simply wanted our
oil, and now we must kill and die for it. Any life
is too sacred for that.

I realize that I have offered no solutions to
lessen the current threat of war. What I have
written is simply my view. I hope that those who
align themselves with the perspective of Mr. Klank
will grant my perspective the same tolerance with
which I accept his.

Peace should never be a partisan issue.

President Bush explains policy:
Writes an open letter to all college students

this international terrorist straight in the eye and
say: no concessions. To proclaim for now and
for the future: no compromises. To bear witness
by our presence to the fact that aggression will
not be rewarded.

Terry waits thousands of miles from the
White House, yet we share the same thoughts.
We desperately want peace. But we know that to
reward aggression would be to end the promise
of our New World Order. To reward aggression
would be to condone the. acts of those who
would desecrate the promise of human life itself.

And we will do none of this. There are
times in life when we confront values wortn
fighting for. This is one such time.

Each day that passes means another day for
Iraq's forces to dig deeper into their stolen land.
Another day Saddam Hussein can work toward
building his nuclear arsenal and perfecting his
chemical and biological weapons capability.
Another day of atrocities for Amnesty Interna-
tional to document. Another day of international
outlaws, instead of international law.

I ask you to think about the economic devas-
tation that Saddam Hussein would continue to
wreak on the world’s emerging democracies if
he were in control of one-fifth of the world’s oil
reserves. And to reflect on the terrible threat that
a Saddam Hussein armed with weapons of mass
destruction already poses to human life and to
the future of all nations.

Together, as an America united against these
horrors, we can, with our coalition partners,
assure that this aggression is stopped and the
principles on which this nation and the rest of
the civilized world are founded are preserved.

And so let us remember and support Terry
Hatfield, all our fine servicemen and women, as
they stand ready on the frontier of freedom,
willing to do their duty and do it well. They
deserve our complete and enthusiastic support -
~ and lasting gratitude.

i a

 

 
 

 

 

 

=

«

 

'. NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

First Sorority Rush violation

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

Sorority Rush ended last night
with the first violation in the two-

year history of sororities at
Washington and Lee.
According to the Panhellenic

Council Judicial Committee the viola-
tion occurred when a Kappa Kappa
Gamma sorority member broke a
contact rule by having lunch with a
sophomore rushee in the Co-op.
Two Chi Omega sorority members

who witnessed the infraction reported
it to the Panhellenic Council.

As a result, Kappa members must
formally apologize to the other sorori-
ties and explain the necessity for a
better understanding of Rush rules in
the future.

There will be no repercussions for
the rushee.

Mitchell said the infraction was a
minor one which occurred because
the Kappa member and the rushee
either ‘forgot’ or ‘‘misunderstood’’
the Rush rules and that both were

very apologetic.

 

Philosophy

Enforcement

hearing, rather than a majority

vote rather than two-thirds

 

Partial summary of proposed
White Book revisions

* Page 1: addition to ‘‘lie, cheat, or steal’’ of ‘‘or act dishonorably”’
« Page 1: clarification that one cannot ‘‘act dishonorably by mistake....””

+ Paragraph 4: investigative team will consist of an EC member, a student
body member, and a member of the Honor Advocate Pool, rather than
two EC members and a student body member

Procedure for an Executive Committee Hearing

+ Section I.A.: procedures for the investigators’ presentation to the EC
* Section I.B.: investigating member of the EC is ‘‘disqualified as a
sitting member of the Executive Committee’’ for that case

* Section L.C.: two-thirds of the EC must vote to proceed to closed

* Section II.A.: charges against the accused must be served 72, rather
than 48, hours in advance of the closed hearing

+ Section IL.D.: advisors of the accused ‘‘may request a written summary
of any witnesses’ expected testimony, or may request a meeting with the
witness...,"’ both subject to constraints including EC president’s approval
* Section IL.L.: the ‘‘University will provide counseling (a psychiatrist,
psychologist, peer group, etc.)’’ at the request of the accused

+ Section IILK.: guilt in a closed hearing requires three-fourths the EC

Procedure for a Student Body (Open) Hearing

* Section IV.F.: The jury receives written as well as oral instructions and
may ask questions of the Sergeants-at-Arms

* Section IV.F.: 10 jurors rather than eight must find guilty for conviction
* Section IV.L: on the transcript of a student found guilty in open hearing
will appear the notation ‘‘Withdrawn,’’ rather than ‘‘Dismissed’’

 

 

Ruscio
moving to
C-School

By Pat Lopes
Staff Reporter

 

 

Assistant Dean of Students Ken-
neth P. Ruscio will be moving out of
Payne Hall and into the Commerce
School next fall.

Commerce School Dean Larry C.
Peppers has appointed Ruscio Associ-
ate Dean of the Commerce School.
Ruscio has been the assistant dean of
freshmen and resident life since the
fall semester of 1987.

Dean of Students David Howison
will conduct the search to find some-
one to replace Ruscio by September.

The position of C-School associate
dean is a new one. Ruscio said
Peppers came up with the idea of an
office which would combine both
academic work and counseling.

‘‘For me, this will be the best of
both worlds,’’ Ruscio said.

    

By Randy Ellis

Shannon Smith, ’93, Houston,
TX = ‘‘I think that it is absolute-
ly justified in order to protect our,
as well as those of our allies,

interest in that region.

 

 

A

Dean Ken Ruscio

 

 

 

On the academic side, he will
build the public policy program in
addition to a number of other proj-
ects. As part of his plans for public
policy, Ruscio said he will create and
teach several new public policy cour-

S.

He also hopes to develop pro-
grams to help C-School majors pre-
pare for graduate study, find intern-
ships and organize forums to discuss
various issues.

Mitchell also said she hopes the
infraction will have a constructive
rather than negative effect on Rush.

“This was nothing, there are still
friendly feelings on both sides,’’ she
said.

Chi Omega Rush Chairman
Elizabeth Vallotan said similarly
‘*I’'m glad everything worked out OK
and there were never any harsh feel-
ings from either sorority.”’

Kappa’s President Linsly Hunt did
not wish to comment other than
‘‘The Panhellenic council handled it
really well.’’

Kappa Alpha Theta President
Kimberly Booth said, ‘‘Hopefully we
can turn what may seem to be nega-
tive into a positive learning
experience. The key factor here
should not be who turned who in for
what, but really that we chapters are
still young and still learning and we
will sometimes be forced to learn
from mistakes.”’

A pledge quota has been set at 34
rushees per sorority. Bids will be
extended this afternoon and formal
pledging will take place this evening
for most sororities.

SCC decides fate

of seven

From Staff Reports

 

 

The Student Conduct Committee
Tuesday night disciplined seven
Washington and Lee students for
minor conduct offenses which oc-
curred during last fall’s fight between
members of the Phi Gamma Delta
and Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternities.

All seven students received W&L
social probation, prohibiting them
from attending any school-wide social
events. Some of the students also
must perform a number of community
service hours. According to FIJI
President Bill Yorio, the sentences
are likely to be appealed at
tomorrow’s regular Student Affairs
Committee meeting.

Yorio also said it is up to the
students themselves to decide if and
when their names will be released to
the public. The lengths of both proba-
tion and community service sentences
were not released.

FlJl’s

Initially, eight students were
charged with conduct offenses, but
during the course of the four-hour
hearing, the SCC dropped charges
against one of the students.

The vice chairman of the SCC,
Richard Burke, chaired the meeting.
The chairman of the SCC, Thomas
Spurgeon, is a member of FIJI and
wanted to avoid any conflict of inter-
est.
The hearing was the third in a
series regarding the incidents that
occurred during the confrontation
between members of FIJI and SPE in
the late evening and early moming
of October 26 and 27. The first hear-
ing involved the altercation between
SPE Vice President Peer Soderberg
and FIJI Kirk Sohonage. The second
hearing regarded the firing of a shot-
gun inside the SPE house by Soder-
berg as he attempted to end the inci-
dent.

Yorio said, ‘I really wish the
whole thing could be dropped.’’

Non-violence is topic
for King speaker

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

Robert Michael Franklin Jr. will
speak on justice and non-violent
social change tomorrow at 7:30 p.m.
in Lee Chapel as part of a week-
long commemoration of Martin Luth-
er King Jr.’s birthday.

Franklin wrote Liberating Visions,
which celebrates the work of Booker
T. Washington, W.E.B. duBois, Mil-
colm X, and King.

“W&L is extremely fortunate to
have Franklin speak at this time,’’
said Professor of Religion Harlan
Beckley. ‘‘I was pleasantly surprised
that he was available.”’

The format for celebrating King’s
birthday was altered last year to
encompass a whole week due to the
increasing difficulty of finding spea-
kers available on Jan.15, King’s birth-
day.

 

The idea for a lecture on non-
violent social change resulted from a
suggestion by Chip Brown of the
Lexington area campus ministries.

Brown believed that Lexington resi-
dents were interested in commemorat-
ing King’s birthday and that a prog-
ram with W&L would interest stu-
dents and residents alike.

‘‘We felt that a lecture was the
best way of informing people of
King’s ideas and beliefs. The lecture
series always seems to attract a large
crowd,”’ Minority Student Association
President James Rambeau said.

With the current situation in the
Persian Gulf, Rambeau said that he
believes the subject of peace holds
even more importance.

‘‘T hope that people who attend the
lecture will evaluate what they can do
to improve relations not just on cam-
pus, but around the world,’’ Rambeau
said.

 

TALKBACK

    

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Spring Term
Spring Term internships are avail-
able in the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives and Senate. The pro-
gram is open to all majors. Appli-
cants must have completed Poltics
101, 102 or 111 for consideration.
Applications are dur Friday, Janu-
ary 18. Please see Prof. Connelly
for more details.

Support me

Support group for students with
friends or relatives serving in
Operation Desert Shield. The next
meeting will be held Wednesday,
Jan. 23 at 5:39 p.m. at the Rock-
bridge Mental Health Clinic. For
information, call 463-3141.

Lost bikes

Four student-owned bicycles have
been found by W&L Security.
They are currently being kept in
ihe security office, and may be
claimed there.

Lecture

Richard Skolnik, Division Chief
of the India Dept. of the World
Bank will give a lecture titled
“The World Bank and Human
Resource Development,’’ Tuesday,
Jan. 22 in C-School Room 327.
Mr. Skolnik appears as part of the
C-School’s Executive-in-Residence
Program.

Film 1

The Russian Studies Progran will
sponsor one showing of The
Brothers Karamazov at 7:30 to-
night in Room 327 of the C-
School. The public is invited.
This is the first entry in the Win-
ter Term Russian Film Series.

Film 2

The Politics Department will
sponsor two showings of the film
2001: A Space Odyssey. Both
showings will be held in Room

203 of Reid Hall. The public is —

invited. This is the first’ showing
in the Winter Term Politics Film-
fest.

Club soccer

Jamie Bruce has been elected
president of Club Soccer, and
anyone interested in playing
spring soccer, please call him at
464-5571.

Nice skirt

Anyone interested in forming a
men’s field hockey team, please
call John Thorsen or Eric Mutz at
464-5393 or 464-5550.

Another lecture
Gregory Locraft, Senior Vice
President of Hecht’s Inc., will
speak on retailing in the C-School
on Jan. 23, in Room 327, at 7:30
p.m. Interested students can also
learn about about the Hecht’s

summer internship program at that
time.

Write more

The Washington and Lee Poltical
Review is accepting more papers
and articles written by faculty and
studentd for publication. Please
bring all submissions to Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center. For more information,
please contact Megan Koch or
Ingrid Schroeder.

Outing Club

On Jan. 19, the Outing Club will
lead a hike in the nearby moun-
tains. Also on the 19th, there will
also be a mountain bike-ride at
Goshen and another on the 26th.
The next meeting of the Environ-
mental section will be held on
Jan. 29, at 5:30 p.m., in the uni-
versity Center. For details of all
Outing Cluc activities, please see
the bulletin boards on the Collon-
ade and at Baker 109.

Mad librarian

Attention students with overdue
library books from Fall Term:
Bills will be mailed monday, Jan.
28. Books should be returned or
renewed now to avoid a $5 ser-
vice charge per book.

Good thought

Postmarks and Pleasures is having
free Valentines Day cards printed
on recycled paper to be sent to
Saudi Arabia. Call Susan at Post-
marks and Pleasures for more
details.

_ College Bowl
“Washington and Lee has been
invited to participate in the first
annual Vanderbilt University
Academic Invitational. The round-
robin event will take place on
Feb. 15-16, and will involve one
team from each invited school.
For more information, please
contact Carol Calkins.

Get it out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes. Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office in Room 208 of the
University Center.

 

in the Persian Gulf?

 

 

Richard Crow, ’92, Fortworth,
TX — ‘‘I hope we don’t go to -
war, but at the same time I feel
we should protect the Kuwatis.
The whole world does seem to be

 

 

lence.

standing behind Bush on_ this

”

issue.

— Nina Baze, ’92, Baltimore, MD
‘‘No one who holds the fate
of so many in his hands should
ever commit to the use of vio-

Photos by John Laney

What do you think of the decision to use force

 

 

 

Fred Schwab, Professor of Geol-
ogy — ‘I have mixed feelings. I
am not an admirer of Hussein,
but at the same time I’m not an
admirer of war. I hope that we
are going in the right direction.”’

 

 

 

Bill Murray, ’92, Houston, TX
- ‘IT hope that Bush knows what
he is doing.’’

 

 

 
—_
‘

4

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

 

 

 

SPE chapter cleans house |

 

~~ Pa RAI

 

1,000 points

 

 

 

 

Senior point guard Mike Holton accepts a plaque to signify scoring his 1,000th point in his Washington
and Lee career. Holton, who has also been named to the Academic All-American team, is the third
member of the Generals basketball team to reach the 1,000-point plateau, along with Chris Jacobs and
Ed Hart. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Head counselors chosen

Weisgerber, Deegear to lead dorm staffs next year

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Next year’s head dorm counselor
and resident assistant were announced
yesterday by Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Kenneth Ruscio.

Bobby Weisgerber was selected as
head dorm counselor and James Dee-

gear was selected as head"RA ‘by: a’

committee including ‘the entire Dean
of Students staff, the two current
heads, and the four assistant heads.
Weisgerber is a junior from Pit-
tsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is an
economics and German major. This
year is his first as dorm counselor.
Ruscio feels that Weisgerber truly
“‘cares about the well-being of fresh-
men, and about the work of his fel-

   
     
   
     
    
   

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

 

LEE fil

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

low counselors.”’

“It’s interesting watching the
freshmen come in and grow into
individuals,’’ said Weisgerber upon
his appointment.‘‘I like knowing that
I will have something to do with it.’’

The head dorm counselors coor-
dinates all 28 counselors throughout
the freshman dorms. He acts as a
liaison between the administration and

“the .freshmen:: He--also;-sits on the

Student Affairs Committee. Be-
sides these official duties, the head
dorm counselor is on call 24 hours a
day for extensive personal counseling,
according to current head, Mary
Hampson.

Deegear, also a junior, is a philos-
ophy major from San Antonio, Texas.
His new position will put him in
charge of managing the affairs of

       
       
     
   

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
Pama ane <I

   

 

| and Accessories

AP VAP ABABA APE AP VAP hd hil SAG Pa

(703)463-5988

Right r

Ny: Ucy

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

 

 

Gaines Residence Hall.

An active member of the Indepen-
dent Union, Deegear would like to
correlate special events between Gain-
es and the IU, especially during the
traditionally big fraternity weekends.

Ruscio, the dean of residence life,
stressed that the selection process was
not highly competitive. ‘‘These are
among the most) difficult decisions we

have,.to make, but they are. the most:.

important,’ he said. }

According to current head
James Rambeau, the committee inter-
viewed all of the applicants on Tues-
day. As soon as the interviews were
complete, the group deliberated until
Weisgerber and Deegear were chosen.

Weisgerber and Deegear will
officially take over the positions next
September.

  

 

RA,

Six members placed on ‘early alumni status’

 

By John Foster and Jason Kelley
Of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Six members of Sigma Phi Epsilon have been placed
on early alumni status after chapter officers and a
representative from the national fraternity questioned
members on what they called their commitment to the

chapter.

New SPE President Brad Peterson, elected Monday,
Jan. 7, conducted what he called ‘‘a process similar to a
national purge’’ along with the other new officers on
Friday, the day after SPE member Ulysses Shiu-ting Hui
was arrested at the house and charged with smuggling and

possession of illegal narcotics.

Peterson said that after the interviews, but before the
officers had voted on individual member's standing in the
fraternity, six members volunteered to resign from the

house.

‘The [six] members were antagonistic to the goals of

the house,’’ Peterson said.

Peterson stressed that none of the members deactivated
in connection with the Hui case or because of drug use.

“‘The members who deactivated

problem,’’ he said. ‘‘The drug problem was a very, very

isolated incident.’’

VMI lobbies against bill

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

Supporters of Virginia Military
Institute’s all-male admissions policy
have begun lobbying the state Gener-
al Assembly to leave the school’s
151-year old tradition intact.

According to The Washington
Post, several hundred VMI backers
were in Richmond Tuesday to per-
suade legislators not to interefere with
the single-sex tradition of the school
while the issue is still before a feder-
al court.

The Post quoted VMI alumnus
Stephen C. Fogleman as saying, ‘‘Let

Former SPE president John Flippen said that the

chapter had been experiencing internal difficulties, and ‘

when the already-scheduled visit by the national officer ,

coincided with Hui’s arrest, the events served as a

campus.

According to Flippen, f x
drafted a letter to SAC recommending that SPE’s charter |

not be suspended or revoked. He said the IFC felt the
action taken by the chapter after Hui was arrested was

catalyst for the reorganization. 2 |

SPE has already been placed on critical probation ,
because of a fight between members of the house and
members of Phi Gamma Delta last October.

Because illegal drugs were found in
violation of it’s critical probation, the Student Affairs
Committee will review the case.

SAC has the option to recommend a five-year
suspension or an outright expulsion of the chapter from ‘

the SPE house, in

the Interfraternity Council has.

“swift and sure’’ and suspending SPE’s charter would be ,

a mistake.

Peterson said he hopes the university will not judge +

members.
were not a drug

the whole fraternity on the action of only one of its

“This is not a bad house, a bad bunch of guys,’’,
Peterson said. ‘‘We had some small problems. We dealt

with them. We are not a drug house.”’ ¢

the courts decide the constitutional
issue.””

The U.S. Justice Department has
taken the school to court over the
policy, claiming that the all-male
admissions policy does not afford
women equal opportunity.

Governor L. Douglas Wilder
seemed to shift his position on the
issue Tuesday when he told a press
conference he had no opinion on the
issue. Wilder said in December he
opposed VMI’s no-women policy.

The lobbying effort came in antic-
ipation of legislation by state Sen.
Emilie F. Miller (D-Fairfax) to force
VMI to admit women. Miller pro-
posed a similar bill last session, but

it was stopped in the Senate’s Educa- ,
tion and Health committee by chair-
man Elmon T. Gray, a graduate of |
VMI, and a staunch proponent of the
admissions policy.

Miller recently admitted that she 4
does not expect the bill to be passed
this year, either. According to Miller,
many members of the legislature ,
would perfer to let the courts decide
the issue, and not become entangled
in the controversy. \

Critics of the policy also gathered
at the Capitol in support of Miller’s *
measure.

One sign read, ‘‘If women can go
to Saudi Arabia, they can go to»;
VMI.”’

 

BOYCOTT

from page 1

University Coordinator of Capital
planning Frank Parsons said that
W&L, upon assuming ownership of
the fraternities in the renaissance
program, also plans to give the city a
grant comparable to the taxes it
would receive if the renovated
fraternity. houses remained in private
hands... ' ott

Derrick said the city has no
choice under state law but to enforce
the tax.

“Students are citizens of the
community while they are here,’’ he
said.

‘‘We’ve got to try to collect all
the taxes due to us. We cannot ex-
clude one segment of the communi-

ty.

  
 
      
 

 

   
  
 

 
 

 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
  

   

   
   
 

 
 
  

vs e Redken © raul iviitciici

George’
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

5 visits for $25
10 visits for $39
20 visits for $70
or $6 per visit

First visit free with package
As always, we have new bulbs!

. Sebastian ( Lig
y)

S

   
 

Derrick added that if students
wished to protest the law, they should
do so in the state capital, not in
Lexington.

Skarda hopes that the boycott will
cause businesses to put pressure on
city council to order the commission-
er of revenue not to collect the tax.

Businesses, in the meafitime, he”

said, will feel the loss of student
dollars.

The manager of The Palms, Cindy
Campbell, said that she feels
‘‘shafted’’ by the student effort.

‘We really do work hard for the
students,’’ said Campbell.

She said The Palms has absorbed
the recent increase in the federal
liquor tax rather than pass it on to

f
§

customers.

Carolyn Tolley, owner of Univer-'
sity Florist and Greenery with her,
husband and W&L alumnus George,
said that although the boycott will’
hurt business, she supports the effort.

Lexington officials ‘‘need to learn
to appreciate that this is a college:
town,”’ she said.

Without students, as in the sum-
mer, ‘‘Lexington dries up.”’ e

Parsons said that although he
understands student concerns, he"
believes there are ‘‘other avenues’’ to+
exhaust before boycott.

Skarda and Kranich said that they ‘
will begin today to publicize aids tot
students as to which area businesses
are inside the city limits. ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applications For

 

 

 

 
    
      
   
     
 
    
 
 
   

 

 
 

   

 

 

 

   
    

 

 

student Telephone Union
Student Power Union

  

 

 

 

Chairman, Vice Chairman
secretary-Treasurer
for 1991-92
are available

 
  
   
  

  
 
 

"SHOE FIXERS .
hair cut. We have three experienced Barbers. menias thew Rial audiotronics The Ring-tum Phi l
Ideal Barber Shop We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. DENON SONY wishes all
22 S. Main St., Lexington, VA 3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666 ADCOM ALPINE the men and women |
an = ) B&O OPTONICA :
KEF cwD of Operation
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
CRAFTS PLUS, INC. car Sige ||| Desert Storm
a spee
DEAVERS ALLEY GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES - AL. COMPONENTS Pr TESTED P y
CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT and safe return |
RALLY ’ROUND THE FLAG! oe
Crafts Plus has a large stock of flags ranging from 4 x 6 inches to TRADE-INS ACCEPTED SPRING BREAK 1991
Term : apers Typed 4 x 6 feet. Included are United States, Commonwealth of 800) 468-6667 Individual or student organization |*
on Virginia, and four flags of the Confederacy. ( ) . needed to promote Spring Break },
FAs Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads ee ge free trips ss
a Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5 Overlooking Tanglewood Mall NOW! EnterCeaa ty .F
©) 203 N. Main St. 463-9455 LC CC phpag virus cube gga — 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke | ee - Conpes Programs: |

 

Open Monday - Saturday é |
Robby Jones Rt. 11 North, College Square Shopping Center mee :
cate aie 463.1782 oe Caulkins’ office |
Standard 10% Dis t j
‘hii mei vn tan Manicures and solar nailtips ue Friday, Feb, |

 
 

 

 

‘NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

2

 

 

 

First Lenfest
_ performance
' Saturday

 

By Carli Flippen
Staff Reporter

; Robert Shaw will take the podium
Saturday evening to direct the 107
* members of the combined Washington
, and Lee University choruses and
University-Rockbridge Symphony
, Orchestra. Saturday night’s concert

 

FRIDAY’S CLASS SCHEDULE

Convocation 12:15 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.

A 8:00 a.m. - 8:45 a.m.
B 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 a.m.
C 9:40 a.m. - 10:25 a.m.

D 10:30 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
E 11:20 a.m. - 12:05 p.m.

1:50 a.m. - 2:35 p.m.
2:40 a.m. - 3:25 a.m.
3:30 p.m. - 4:15 p.m.
4:20 p.m. - 5:05 p.m.

F
G
H
I
J 5:10 p.m. - 5:55 p.m.

 

 

is the opening performance at the
ve Center for the Performing
Shaw, the Atlanta S phony
+ Orchestra’s music director for 21
years, will conduct Beethoven’s
"Egmont Overture," the 3rd move-
+ Ment of Rachmaninov’s 2nd Piano

Concerto, the 3rd movement of Bern-
+  stein’s "Chichester Psalms," and

 

By Marcy Brown
Staff Reporter

and

 

Poulenc’s "Gloria."

“‘He’s the most exciting conductor
+ _ I’ve worked under,’’ said Dr. Gordon

Spice, W&L Glee Club and Univer-
‘ sity Chorus’s music director and
music department head. ‘‘Robert
Shaw has a magical way of com-
,  Municating the essence of the
music,’’ Spice said.

Shaw began his career in New
+ York where he prepared choruses for
conductors such as Arturo Toscanini
and Bruno Walter. He formed the
+ Robert Shaw Chorale and Orchestra
in 1949, He spent the next 17 years
touring with that group.

E. Lee

be the

national

Washington and Lee will com-
memorate the birthday of Robert

annual Founder’s Day celebration
at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
President John D. Wilson will

event, which was established by
the Board of Trustees on Oct. 15,
1870, three days after Robert E.
Lee’s death.

Omicron Delta Kappa,

W&L in 1914, will induct 24 stu-
dents and two honorary initiates

tomorrow at the 120th

speaker at the

-~

honor fraternity founded at

emeritus and conductor laureate of
the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra,
Larry C. Peppers, Dean of the
W&L = School
Economics and Politics.

Shaw’s distinguished career has
included a 21-year tenure as music
director of the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra, the music directorship
of the San Diego Symphony
Orchestra, a position as associate
conductor
Orchestra, and 17 years directing
the Robert Shaw Chorale and
Orchestra, which he formed in

of the

Shaw is a frequent teacher and
lecturer in leading U.S. colleges
and universities, and has received

ODK set to tap 26 Friday

Peppers, dean of the Commerce
School since 1986, has published
two books and contributed articles
and research to many different
periodicals.

He has served as a consultant
for Northwestem Bell, Union
Pacific Railroad, and American
Telephone and Telegraph.

Peppers came to W&L from
Creighton University in Omaha,

Neb. He began teaching in the
department of economics and
finance in Creighton College of
Business Administration in 1976,
and assumed the chairmanship of
his department in 1981.

He was named Teacher of the
Year at the College of Business in

of Commerce,

Cleveland

‘ After serving as music director at | during the Founder's Day degrees and citation from 40 1978.
the San Diego Symphony, Shaw | Convocation. schools. Peppers received his B.A.
* worked as associate conductor of the ODK initiates are selected by a He has also received 12 Gram- degree in economics and
, Cleveland Orchestra, under George | university committee of society ies and several top recording mathematics in 1966 from Grinnell
Szell. Shaw became the music direc- | members for their leadership in prizes from other countries, the College, and his PhD. in
‘tor of the Atlanta Symphony in 1967. | scholastic, athletic, social, religious first Guggenheim Fellowship ever economics from Vanderbilt

Saturday night, the pianist for the
Rachmaninov will be Dr. Timothy
»  Gayland, associate professor of music

initiates

at W&L. Amy Cochrane will be the | initiation.
* soprano soloist for the ‘‘Gloria.”’ The two honorary initiates are
+  Cochraneis an adjunct faculty member | Robert Shaw, music director 4nd the arts,’’

 

and vocal teacher at W&L.

and literary pursuits. Names of the

publicly released at the time of

are traditionally first

awarded to a conductor, and the
Gold Baton Award
American Symphony Orchestra
League, America’s highest honor
for ‘‘distinguished service to music

University in 1970.

He taught briefly at Know
College and Eastern Michigan
University before joining the
Union Pacific Railroad in 1973 as
manager of economic forecasting.

of the

 

 

Tough times
for restaurants

El Cafe owner blames Renaissance

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

Despite 1990 census figures that
indicate Lexington’s population has
remained stagnant, rapid restaurant
and commercial development has
gone unchecked, leaving some busi-
nesses searching for clientele.

“‘Most of that growth came an-
ticipating the [Virginia] Horse Center
going gangbuster and the completion
of I-64,”’ said Wade Leslie, owner of
Lexington’s El Cafe and the Palms.
“In ten years, you won’t recognize
the area.”’

Citing Lexington and Rockbridge
County’s growing popularity with
W&L and VMI alumni as a place to
retire, Leslie claims Lexington has
the potential to support business and
the influx of new restaurants. Never-
theless, it is still the limited and
seasonal student market that makes or
breaks a Lexington restaurant.

‘In Lexington, if you don’t have
the student business, then you don’t
have business at all,’’ said Leslie.

Targeting student customers was
Leslie’s goal when he opened his
second restaurant on June 6. To date,
however, tourists and construction
workers have accounted for most of
El Cafe’s business. Such a trend will
not sustain a local business for long.

‘“‘We had a real good summer,’
said Leslie. ‘‘Tourists carried us
through.”’

As summer came to a close, El
Cafe began to struggle. Fraternity
Renaissance has taken, according to
Leslie, the wind out of El Cafe’s
sails.

“‘Mud, dirt, jackhammers, pound-
ing, bad parking, and whatever goes
along with construction has killed
us,’’ said Leslie.

Leslie hopes an end to Ren-

aissance, and the return of students to
the Red Square area will bring in-
creased student business to his ¢s-
tablishment.

In November, Lloyds of Lexington
owner Lloyd Smith blamed Red
Square construction for the loss of
student business and the subsequent
closing of his Washington Street
restaurant.

In addition to the problems posed
by construction, Leslie also explained
the difficulties of running a Mexican
restaurant in Southwest Virginia.

‘‘We don’t even know if Mexican
will make it,’’ said Leslie. ‘‘Ethnic
food cuts down [an already limited]
market.”

Before opening El Cafe, Leslie
conducted extensive research on Mex-
ican food preparation. He also
brought a Latin American food spec-

ialist to Lexington for six months to
instruct El Cafe’s staff on cooking

and serving techniques.

In an attempt to bring student
business to El Cafe, Leslie added
local band performances to the rest-
aurant’s repetoire.

El Cafe has faced stiff competition
from the newly opened Italian res-
taurant, I] Pilazzo, on Main Street. I]
Pilazzo’s owner, Ugo Benincasa,
claims student and faculty patronage
at his restaurant has remained strong.

Despite the expected opening of
yet another Washington Street cafe, to
replace Lloyd’s, and a Hardees and
Shoneys on Route 11, Leslie remains
confident that a market exists for
Lexington’s growing restaurant scene.

“I don’t think that, due to factors
involved, we've found our niche,’’
said Leslie. ‘‘We've got talented
people that work for us. We may
change our menu three or four times.
It’s still evolving. I have no idea
what’s going to happen."’

Law school offers lectures on videotape

 

By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

' yee

é Thanks to a new service provided by the
law library’s media center, Washington and
* Lee law students now have a unique study
j aid, the audio or video tape.
A centralized recording system, which has
: been in use since October, allows students
‘ and professors to simply call the media center
and request that a specific class be taped.
The recording is made from the master

 

   

CLASSICAL: Only classical recordings distinguished by having received a consensus of

POPULAR/ROCK (BEFORE 1975): New re-releases of albums out of print for

more than 20 years! Hundreds of new 45’s and mint albums from the 60's!

COME IN WITH THIS AD AND RECEIVE $2 OFF ON A COMPACT DISC!

(Limit, 1 per customer. Offer ends January 31)

STEREO EQUIPMENT

COMMERCIAL SOUND IN
Coming Soon

Rockbridge Music

If your New Year’s resolution was, “I’m going to learn
how to play guitar this year,” let us help you! Current-
ly stocking Fender, Martin, Ovation, Gibson and more.
Lessons available all at Rockbridge Music.

205 N. Main St.

vallery

favorable reviews from over 20 music and stereo publications, along with the Grammy and

Specializing in:
*
International award winners.
. International Music is included as well.
« SOUNDTRACKS: Classic American and European
Present.
PLUS

NEW AGE: Selections are from both favorable reviews and extensive audition, Some

NOT SURE ABOUT BUYING A CD? THE SONIC GALLERY PLAYS IT FOR YOU!
SPECIAL ORDER SERVICE

PROFESSIONAL HOME AND

The Best Stereo Components (New and Used)

THE SONIC GALLERY SELLS GOOSEBUMPS!

Old Main Street Building, Lexington 464-1100
Weekdays: Noon to 6PM Saturdays: 10AM to 5PM. Closed Sundays. ix

controls in the media center and than placed

on reserve in the law library, where students
“can review it at any time. | ae

Tom Williams, “78, and Arthur Perry of
the media center are in charge of producing

the tapes.

Williams said tapes are made for about
half of the classes held each day. He added
that students primarily use the tapes to review

lectures.

“There is no indication at all that students
are using these tapes as substitutes for class,"’

said Williams.

“Classroom participation is

4

too big a part of law school for this type of
activity.”’

Each’ proféssor retains complete control
over the tapeing’ of ‘his classes.’ i

*‘Some will ask that certain classes not be
recorded. Some prefer that none of their
classes be taped, and some give us approval
to tape all their classes. It all depends on the
professor and his personal beliefs and teach-
ing style,’’ Perry said.

Most professors, according to Williams,
permit it unconditionally. He added that the
tapes remain on reserve for only as long as

the professor allows, but that the majority
leave them out the entire semester.

The installation of the present system was

**‘done over the course of a year, and was all
done in-house. We preferred to do it this
way because we did the job precisely to our
own satisfaction, and saved a lot of money
in the process,’’ Williams said.

He estimated that the $10,000 project
would have cost as much as $75,000 if the
university had contracted with an outside
company to do the work.

Classes were first recorded about 10 years

said.

 

  

 
     
   
   

 

 
  

+

 

ing

film music from the 40's to the

REPAIRS

STALLATION

 

 

 

R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church

Sunday Services: 8:30 & 10:30 a.m.
§:00 p.m.
Dinner and Bible Study: 5:45 p.m.

107 Lee Avenue

Washington & Lee University

Una Vox Editor Position Description

Eligibility: Any Washington and Lee Student

Position Title: Editor of Una Vox

Department: Office of Minority and International Affairs
Reports to: Coordinator of Minority Affairs, Terry Grant
Earnings: A stipend is provided

Major Function:

The Student Editor is principally responsible for the bi-annual pub-
lication of Una Vox, the Multi-Cultural Newsletter of Washington
and Lee University.

Responsibilities:
Recruits reporters and works with Univeristy photographer in mak-
photograph
dates, the guidelines for staff; and supervises the staff in their per-
formance of duties. The Editor is responsible to the Coordinator of
Minority Affairs.

assignments; creates,

up-

Experience Necessary:
This position requires editorial knowledge gained through formal
course work, extra curricular activities, or interships.

Interested person please submit a letter of application to the of-
fice of Minority and International Affairs by Monday, January
21, 1991.

  

 

 

130 S. Main St.

mT

| Desperately Seeking
| Pictures of You
and Anyone Else.

through the year,

Please print your

number and event on the back of the z

photograph.

Lexington Bike Shop
Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

Turn them into the
Calyx Office

= The yearbook has an immediate 5
deadline for photographs from:
=Parent’s Weekend, Homecoming, §
=Men’s and Women’s Rush, Hallo- §
= ween, Fraternity Renaissance, and
= Christmas Weekend,

But we accept all candids ™

ago when Professor J. Timothy Phillipps
sought to allow students to hear the lectures
they missed while interviewing with out-of-
town law firms. ;

According to Phillipps, the tapes were
soom being used by other students for review
purposes, and the practice simply spread to
the point that the present system was needed.

‘Washington and Lee has always gone
out of its way to help its students,’ Williams

‘The ease of use of this service makes it
an ideal tool for any law student."’

  

 
  
  
  

  

463-7969

 
 

neue HELL eee i

    
     
      
  
 

 

 

   
 

   

  
 
 

  

name, telephone &

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

SPORTS

Watkins, Jacobs spark big ODAC wins |

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee basket-
ball teams continues to rebound from
a slow start.

The Generals won three big
games last week to move their record
above .500 for the first time this
season after a 2-5 start. W&L beat
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
rivals Roanoke, Virginia Wesleyan
and Eastern Mennonite to move their
record to 8-6, 4-3 on the season. The
Generals have won six of their last
seven contests.

‘We're definitely going in the
right direction,’’ said head coach
Verne Canfield. ‘‘I’ve said all along
that if we play with aggressiveness
and intensity, we can play with any-
one on our schedule.”’

The Generals used a combination
of depth, balance and, rebounding to
win the three games, all by margins
of more than 10 points.

Last Thursday, before nearly 1500
fans in the Warner Center, the Gen-
erals put five players in double fig-
ures to beat arch-rival Roanoke 93-
80 in a game that saw 22 lead chan-
ges and eight ties.

W&L led at the half 42-39 behind
eight points each from seniors Chris
Jacobs, Ed Hart and Mike Holton.
The first half saw 18 lead changes
and seven ties.

Jacobs got W&L off on the right
foot in the second half with a dunk
after a steal by sophomore Keith
Faulkner. Roanoke came back to lead
50-49 on a basket by Robert Line-
burg with 17:23 left, but the Generals
went ahead for good on a three
pointer by Faulkner and a_ basket
from Hart at the 14:20 mark.

W&L broke open a 56-55 game
with a seven-two run sparked by
Holton, who became the 19th player
in school history and third on the
current team to score over 1,000
career points. Holton hit two straight
three pointers after two straight steals
and then fed Hart with a no-look
pass to give the Generals a 64-57
lead.

W&L then hit their final 15 free
throws to ice the 93-80 win. Jacobs
led the way with 20 points and eight
rebounds. Holton added 19 points and
five assists, Hart scored 12 and senior
Jim Casey 11.

Sophomore guard Bryan Watkins
was the fifth General to score in

double figures. In his first start, Wat-
kins scored 12 points and had a
season high five steals.

‘‘Bryan has handled himself very
well,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘He has played
well and I’m pleased with what he
has contributed. He gives us speed
and quickness and some scoring
punch.”’

The story was much the same on
Saturday, when the Generals enter-
tained then-ODAC leader VWC. The
Marlins came into the game 8-4, 5-
0 but were out-manned by W&L.

The game was tied at 45-45 at
halftime, and the teams traded baskets
until the senior Craig Hatfield scored
his first points of the game with
16:06 left to give W&L a 55-54 lead.

Hatfield scored again after an
offensive rebound, and Casey hit a
three pointer to give the Generals a
60-55 lead. VWC cut the lead to 66-
64 with 9:47.

From that point on, the W&L
defense took over. W&L held VWC
without a field goal for over 6:00
while outscoring the Marlins 13-6 to
open up a 79-68 lead. Casey had five
points and Hatfield had four during
the run.

The Generals hit 10 of 11 free
throws down the stretch and put the
game away on a Jacobs dunk with
1:52 left and went on to win 94-81.

Jacobs again led five Generals in
double figures with a season-high 21
points. Casey came off the bench to
add 18 points, Watkins added a car-
eer-high 15 points and Hart added 12.
Hatfield added 10 points and 10
rebounds in only 12 minutes.

‘Craig has taken the change in
his role very well,’’ said Canfield.
‘*He continues to get rebounds and
timely stick-backs.”’

On Tuesday, the Generals travelled
to Harrisonburg, Va., to take on
Eastern Mennonite, and in a change
of pattern in the series, W&L handled
the Royals 83-63. W&L had lost two
of the last three games it had played
at EMC.

Hart and Jacobs proved too tough
for the Royals inside. The 6-foot-6
seniors combined for 16 points in the
first eight minutes of the second half
as the Generals used a 23-8 mn to
break open a 34-28 game at the half.

Hart led the way with 24 points
and 10 rebounds while Jacobs added
20 points. W&L played all 15 players
on the roster and no player played
more than 31 minutes (Holton).

“It’s nice to be able to play all

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

15 players and see guys like [soph-
omore] Darren Johnson and [junior]
Franklin Pridgen diving after balls
with a 20-point lead,’’ said Canfield.

The Generals will continue their
trek through the ODAC with three
big games this week. Tonight, the
Generals play host to the No. 3-ran-
ked team in Division III, Emory and
Henry. Saturday, the Generals travel
to Ashland, Va. to take on 11th-ran-
ked Randolph-Macon and play at
Hampden-Sydney next week.

“TI don’t see any reason why we
won’t win tonight,’’ said Holton.
‘'They play good defense and [Leon]

Hill is one of the best players in the
nation,’’ said Holton. ‘‘But I don’t
see any reason why we can’t win.”

“We could make up for our poor
play early in the season with some
big wins,’’ said Hatfield. ‘‘We are
very capable of beating anyone in the
conference right now. We’re playing
well and we’re psyched up to have a
good showing tonight.’

The Generals will take the floor
tonight without the services of Wat-
kins. The 6-2 sophomore, averaging
11.7 points as a starter, suffered a
scratched eye against Eastern Men-
nonite. He may be ready for action
on Saturday.

Tip-off tonight is at 7:30 in the
Warner Center. Saturday’s game with
Randolph-Macon starts at 3 p.m.
WLUR-FM will have all the action.

Roanoke (80)--Gentry 4-10 0-0 9, Pendleton 7-16
3-3 20, Otten 5-10 5-8 15, Murphy 3-4 0-0 6,
Lineburg 6-11 0-0 12, Spickard 2-3 0-0 6, Jones 1-
3 0-0 2, Scott 0-1 0-0 0, Thomton 2-4 0-0 5,
Swartz 2-3 1-1 5, Totals 32-65 9-12 80.

Washington and Lee (93)--Holton 5-9 6-7 19,
Watkins 5-10 0-0 12, Jacobs 8-18 4-4 20, Hart 6-
12 0-0 12, Faulkner 1-6 2-2 5, Gallavan 1-2 0-0 3,
Hatfield 3-6 2-2 8, Casey 2-5 6-6 11, Witherington
1-3 1-1 3, Penn 0-1 0-2 0. Totals 32-72 21-24 93.

Halftime: W&L. 42-39. Three point shots: RC 7-
22 (Pendleton 3, Spickard 2, Gentry, Thomton),
WA&L 8-20 (Holton 3, Watkins, 2, Gallavan, Casey,
Faulkner). Rebounds: RC 34 (Murphy 10), W&L
42 (Jacobs 8). Assists: RC 15 (Pendleton 7), W&L
12 (Holton 5). Steals: RC 5 (Pendleton 2), W&L
13 (Watkins 5). A-1,467.

Virginia Wesleyan (81)--Weddle 4-14 0-1 9,
Andrews 4-9 2-2 10, Williams 5-8 2-2 12, Chalk
5-9 9-9 19, Spruill 5-14 0-0 10, Thomton 5-8 0-
0 14, Jackson 1-2 0-0 2, English 0-4 5-6 5. Totals
29-68 18-20 81.

Wasington and Lee (94)--Holton 3-7 2-3 9,
Watkins 5-10 3-4 15, Jacobs 7-14 7-7 21, Hart 6
7 2-2 14, Faulkner 0-0 2-2 2, Casey 5-7 5-6 18,
Hatfield 4-7 2-2 10, Witherington 2-5 1-1 5,
Melton 0-1 0-1 0, Gallavan 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 32-
59 24-28 94.

Halftime: 45-45. Three point shots: VWC 5-18
(Thomton 4, Weddle), W&L 6-14 (Casey 3,
Watkins 2, Holton). Rebounds: VWC 33 (Andrews
8), W&L 39 (Hatfield 10). Assists: VWC 11
(Weddle, Andrews 3), W&L 14 (Holton 4). A-394.

sl

f
a

 

 

 

Political

Calkins’

Got any papers from
last term that you'd like
to see published?

submit them to The
Washington and Lee

Review.

Please put all
submissions in Carol

office.

 

 

&
re

 

Senior center Chris Jacobs shoots over a Roanoke player in the first half of last Thursday's game,
in the Warner Center. Jacobs scored 20 points to lead the Generals to a 93-80 win. Staff photo by

Chris Leiphart.

een een en MN, Er ey

Shred Center.

pp
tiger
Z »~
4 ae
ie : ji
YL
a | j \

x a

   

Enjoy winter's newest challenge, Snowboard Skiing at
Massanutten. Hone your skills as you 7? from peak to base.

Show your skills on our challenging hal Pes

Snowboard skiing is permitted on all open slopes and
trails, including our two new slopes from the top of the moun-
tain. Lessons and limited rentals are also available.

College Twilight skiing rates ($12) apply on Monday and
Friday. With your valid college ID and this ad, lift tickets to
snowboard ski are just $10.

Come ski what's new at Massanutten.

&} MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

 

|
—

Don’t Be
Disappointed
By Selection & Price

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportwear has the
best selection of W&L im-
printed T-Shirts, sweatshirts,
embroidered fitted baseball
caps and much more. Come
see our new W&L Flannel
Boxers!

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 

 

 

Resolutions Won't do it....

 

 

ws ACTION Will! .

Do it, and do it well, at the

CCR waren) ’

Current Aerobics '
Schedule:

Mon.-Fri., 4:15 & 5:30 p.m.
SS Mon. & Wed., 7 p.m.

Call Megan Koch for more information.

 

Weight

The Phi is still looking for a new Training

Business Manager. If interested

in improving your resume, please submit a Mon. & Fri., 3 p.m.

ae MWF, 12:10-12:50 BLITZ  '

cover letter to Ann Dysart. Sat.,9:304p.m. fe
Sun., 1 p.m.

16E.Nelson St. 464-1FIT } '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

SPORTS

UNC-Charlotte
defeats W&L

 

 

Wrestlers beat
Yellow Jackets

 

By Randall Ellis
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee swim
teams lost their second straight pair
of dual meets at the University of
North Carolina-Charlotte on Saturday.
The men’s team was defeated 125-
76 while the women fell 96-75.

Head coach Page Remillard said
he was pleased with his teams’ per-
formances despite the losses.

“‘Looking back at the times we
established at the College of Charles-
ton and comparing them to this
weeks performances, I am thrilled.
We are able to see definite progress
already,’’ he said.

On the men’s side, junior Doug
Brown led the way by winning the
500-yard freestyle with a time of
5.00.66 and the 1000-yard freestyle
in 10:24.78. Sophomore Andrew
Pearson took first place in the 50-
yard freestyle with a time of 22.45,
while senior Tomas Perez won the
200-yard breaststroke in 2:25.65.

For the women, sophomore Steph-
anie Sauers won the 100-yard frees-
tyle in 59.11. Junior Jodi Herring

 

 

 

 

Jodi Herring

captured first place in the 500-yard
freestyle with a time of 5:41.51.
Freshman Ellen Dean won the 200-
yard backstroke in 2:42.16 and soph-
omore Claire Dudley won the 200-
yard breaststroke in 2:34.56.

The ability of the swimmers to

achieve significant time drops while
still swimming a large number of
yards in practice is a good sign,
Remillard said.

“If we can drop our times while
we are swimming long yardage in
practice, we should see even larger

 

 

 

 

Claire Dudley

drops in our times later in the sea-
son when we cut back on the inten-
sity of our workouts. It bodes well
for later this season,’’ he said.

Although a few swimmers have
stayed with the same events this
season, Remillard has played with his
line-ups somewhat this year. He said
that he felt such an approach has
exposed some strengths that he may
never have recognized had he stuck
to a more conservative approach.

A larger staff, including a full-
time intern, has also enhanced the
program. Not only has _ work-out
preparation increased, allowing for
practices geared more toward individ-
ual needs, but Remillard has been
able to spend more time work on
recruiting for next year.

‘‘We are just a few people short
of being a really good team. We lack
the depth. I’ve got my eye on a
number of recruits for next year,
though, that could really add to the
teams’ he added.

The men (0-2) and women (1-2)
will travel to Washington, D.C., this

weekend to swim against George-
town.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eyes on the basket

Sophomore Keith Faulkner goes over and around a Roanoke
College defender in last Thursday's game at the Warner Center.
The Generals defeated the Maroons, 93-80. Staff photo by Chris
Leiphart.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

en Saturday Night at t6 PM

Over 90 ways to win moneys

 

 

Junior Larry Pilkey, who finished with two victories at the
Davidson Trianguiar, has the upper hand in a match last season.

W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

SAARI FR EES EBS 5 ARS) ASR (OR is CPE
By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

Georgia Tech’s wrestling program
decided at the last minute to join
Washington and Lee, Furman and
host Davidson College last weekend
at the Davidson Triangular.

And for the Generals, Georgia
Tech’s addition meant a win under
their belt in the opening of the 1991
portion of the season.

‘Tt was better to make it a quad
{four teams] than a triangular,’’ said
head coach Gary Franke. ‘‘That way
everyone has an equal amount of
rest,

After falling to perennial power-
house Furman 40-6, and later to an
improved Davidson squad, 26-11,
W&L tumed matters around with a
bruising 33-19 win over the Yellow
Jackets.

Co-captains Larry Pilkey and Peer
Soderberg turned in impressive per-
formances at 126- and 177-pounds
respectively, finishing the tournament
with two victories each.

Soderberg and Pilkey lead the
team with six and five wins respec-
tively on the season. Pilkey is second
on the team with seven takedowns.

Entering the triangular, the Gen-
erals had gone seven weeks since
their final preseason tournament, the
Lebanon Valley Invitational, where

the finished 17th in an 18-team field.
With such a long delay, Franke
looked to get his team back to com-
petitive conditioning levels.

“Conditioning didn’t hurt,’’ said
Franke. ‘‘The skill level of our op-
ponents was [just] higher than ours.’’

At the Lebanon Valley Tourna-
ment, the Generals had suffered from
weak defensive leg strategies, or the
wrestler’s ability to escape from his
opponent’s leg holds.

‘There were areas technically
where we weren't performing with
our feet,’’ said Franke prior to the

Davidson Triangular.

Conditioning and leg work proved
little match for Davidson and Furman
skill, however. Davidson, a squad
W&L defeated last year, showed vast
improvement and a talented freshman
class.

“‘We beat the national champs in
football, but the other two teams just
were a little stronger than us,’’ said
Franke. ‘‘T thought we wrestled well.
We just got out-skilled in the mat-
ches we lost, but we reversed that
against Georgia Tech.”’

This weekend, the Generals travel
to York, Pa. to participate in the
York Invitational.

‘‘We’re looking forward to the

York tournament,’ said Franke. ‘‘It
should be a nice tournament for us.”’

rl ld

CL ee ae

Honor takes on a special meanin
when.you:take on the Boy dol :

bility of becoming a lawyer in th
United. States Marine Corps.¥o i
mae Mime oh ee iB yelp tel il. |,
the qualities to be a Marine Cofps’ ay
-Officer—an honor indeed. Once

you've proven that, youll get plenty

of experience putting those unique
qualities to use in.a court of taw.

If this soundslike the place whére

elke). com Com gle/g elmo) tg Use[elE

skills, we'll get to the point, .<So

Call 1-800-MARINES.

However, it’s not our prac-

deheainay, | ET g 1173
anyone,

The Few. The Proud. The Marines.

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game $1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

For more information call
1-800-542-5851

US HWY - 11 North 464-BOWL (2695)

 
WéLIFE

‘A man who’s a part of his music’

An interview with Grammy nominee and j

 

 

: 12:15 p.m. FOUNDERS' DAY/ODK CONVOCATION. Address to be given
4 laughs) because the thing I’m think- by W&L President John D. Wilson. Lee Chapel. (Adjusted
By Chris Bray ing about now is more of an orches- class schedule.)
Staff Reporter tral thing I couldn’t possibly approxi- 7 p.m. LECTURE: 2nd Annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial
mate with my voice. Lecture on Justice and Non-violent Social Change. Robert
Who's Stanley Jordan? I’ve heard I have a passion for music. I've ee es ee een
that question a lot this week. Here's tae Se Or 8 0g tae. 50 'h 7:30 pm. OPEN REHEARSAL: Univordep-Pockiorides Symphony
what I would have answered before when im 7 playing ee Orchestra, University Choruses, and pianist Timothy
last Sunday: thinking about it. So when I pick up Gaylard, conducted by Robert Shaw. Lenfest Center for the
Stanley Jordan is a_ guitarist. . guitar Soe i roa vie Performing Arts. Public invited. For reservations, call
’ i i m gonna play next ur ¢ 463-8000.
= ~ eh pes escape Pe ‘oe it up. 8 p.m. GALLERY LECTURE/RECEPTION: Masako Miyata and Steve
R&B stilt diiaian’ wnedis odies i Zapton. duPont Gallery. Public invited.
lead 3 Hi ical infl : R-tP: How has luck and hard work 8 p.m. S.A.B. CONCERT: Stanley Jordan, guitarist. Doremus
a ee affected where you are today? Gymnasium. Tickets available at the door.
are many.

Jordan has come a long way with
his guitar. Only seven years ago, he
was a street musician in New York
City. He didn’t pound the pavement
for long. His album Magic Touch, a
1985 release, was #1 on the Bill-

board jazz chart for 51 weeks. On it and if I didn’t try to use it in a 1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Boris Godunov (Mussorgsky).

Sunday, he was nominated for a a Oe ee AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: BASKETBALL: Randolph-Macon;

Grammy award for work on his latest positive contribution to the world. WRESTLING: York Invitational: SWIMMING (M&W):

album Cornucopia. That's what I feel we all have a Georgetown; INDOOR TRACK (M&W): Va. Tech. Invitational.
But it would be unfair to judge : : : responsibility o do...

Jordan by album sales and award Stanley Jordan will perform in Doremus Gym at 8 p.m. tomorrow night I feel like I still could have done

recognitions alone. He has revolu- a lot more. I’m always looking for 2:30 p.m. ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: The Joseph

tionized the way the guitar is played, it’s great music. People look at jazz great because it’s such a high level more ways to make my music Teally Holmes Chicago Dance Theatre. Lenfest Center, W&L.

mastering the ‘‘tapping’’ technique of i” different ways, some people might of expression. I could see spending mean something to people, not just to

guitar playing. Sometimes he plays SY you have a duty to learn this my whole life studying jazz, and to be something to put on as back- Sania Littior King dh, ay,

two guitars, but who needs two gui- because it’s a great American heri- come to higher levels of eloquence as ground music. I Want something that 4:30 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Deadline for

tars when you can make one sound [4ge. — an artist because the music has that people could listen to, and that would Resume Drop V (Feb. companies). CD&P Office.

like three. I just say it’s great music...I feel to offer. make a change in their life, so even 8 p.m. MARTIN LUTHER KING PROGRAM: First Baptist Church, 103
I knew Stanley Jordan had accom- Very fortunate that I was brought up In the meantime, what I notice is after they tum off the record or go N. Main St. Students will speak on "What ‘The Dream’ Means

plished exceptional things with his listening to people like Wes that the rock area has developed in home from the show, hopefully they to Me.” Music provided. Reception to follow in Church Hall.

instrument. I own two of his albums, Montgomery, Duke Ellington, Charlie certain ways. There are some artists still hold something in their heart Public invited.

I’ve checked him out in concert, and Parker, Diz, John Coltrane...and I’m out right now who are doing things where the music really made them .

I've listened to and loved his music. glad to be able to pass on in my that I feel are on a high musical change. ’ aa as 7:30 p.m LECTURE: "The World Bank and Human Resource

But it wasn’t until I talked with him little way some of the inspirations level. For example Steve Vai is on a I think that ae a om mephont tes Department,” Richard Skolnik, division chief, India

this past Sunday that I realized this that I’ve got from listening to them. high musical level, I like to listen to _ level, when you listen to some of the Department, World Bank. Room 327, Commerce School.

incredible musician was so much a I love to be in unlikely situations, his new record. great artists in all genres — it could Public invited,

part of his work. Here’s what he Where the artist might be different It’s interesting for me to see that be Mozart, it could be John Coltrane, 8 p.m. W&L CONCERT GUILD: Aequalis Ensemble. Lenfest Center.

had to say:

Editors note: The following are ex-
cerpts from the reporters interview
with Stanley Jordan. The interview
may be heard in its entirety Thurs-
day, Jan. 17 at 10 p.m. on WLUR,
91.5 FM.

R-tP: What’s it like to play at
W&L and be an ambassador of
jazz to a campus that doesn’t expe-
rience much jazz?

Jordan:It’s wonderful for me. I’m
glad I have the opportunity to bring
this music to people, because I feel

  

than what the audience expects, and
the audience might be there prepared
to hear something new. I just re-
member all the times when I was
turned on to something new, and all
of those times really changed my life.

R-tP: How do you feel about rock
& roll?

Jordan:When I first picked up the
guitar I aspired to be a rock & roll
guitar player. And today it’s not like
I don’t aspire to that, it’s just that I
began to feel too comfortable with
rock and roll.

I felt like it wasn’t challenging
enough for me and I felt jazz was

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

because it makes me feel like this.

might be a good time for me to start
going back and do more rock things
myself. I feel like it’s evolved to a
point where I’m getting interested in
it again.

R-tP: Do you ever take a break
from your guitar or your music?

Jordan: Well, not completely. I’m
always thinking about music.  Al-
ways. Even right now I have music
in my head. And if I don’t have an
instrument in my hands, I’m still
thinking about pure sound. Most of
the time (interrupts himself). . . no,

I’m not going to sing any thing (he

azz guitarist Sta

nley Jordan

Jordan: It’s a combination of both. I
definitely feel blessed by my Creator.
I feel like I have a talent, that I have
something to offer, which of course
would come to nothing if I didn’t use

or Stevie Ray Vaughn — music at
that very high level is inspiring and
it changes you. It makes you want
to be a better person and to live a
better life, and to bring out your own
potential. My ultimate goal is some-
day my music might do that to some-
body else.

So who is Stanley Jordan? A
man who’s very much a part of his
music. If you want to see for your-
self, the Warner Center is the place
to be Friday night. Jordan will per-
form there at 8 p.m. Tickets are
available for $4 in front of the co-
op this week and for $6 at the door.

 

10 a.m. -1 p.m.LENFEST CENTER OPEN HOUSE: Open House and Tours of

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

 

Robert E. Lee's Birthday.
GMAT Exam.

W&L's new Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. Public
invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Hampden-Sydney.

 

 

 

 

MMMM.

  

oh ‘

* QUICK COPIES + FLYERS

* PAPERS * BANNERS ¢ INVITATIONS

OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS
@B PHONE: 463-1712 -

FAX #: 463 - 6918

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA » ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

 

 

 

 

 

Maximum Strength

Corn Sinutab Tablets

ae

@Giacier cLus!

Kelloge’s
es

a Ee (231

 

SWITCH TO OUR
LOW PRICES IN ‘91

Perdue Or Holly Farms
Cut-up Fryers

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

2 ee eye

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Washington State Red Or Golden

| Delicious
wpples

  

 

  

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, January 22, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, January 22, 1991 In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
