 

s
’
‘

¢

4
Ld
‘

*

i ne

'

“ W&L Parents’ Weekend schedule —- see

Che Ring-tum Phi —-

page 4

NOV 5 199

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 11

 

 

 

Peer Soderberg
.. Charged with shotgun blast

Smoke
Gaines

 

By Pat Lopes
Editor

 

fills

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 1, 1990

Student faces felony gun charge

 

_ arena He
By Fraser Bowen
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee junior Peer A.
Soderberg was arrested and charged with a
felony in connection with firing a shotgun
during a brawl between members of two
fraternities early Saturday morning.

At around 2 a.m. Saturday, Soderberg, who
is the vice-president of Sigma Phi Epsilon,
allegedly fired his 12-gauge shotgun into the
ceiling and walls of the SPE house in an
attempt to break up a fight between brothers of

’ his fraternity and those of Phi Gamma Delta.

As a result of the incident, both SPE and
FIJI were placed on social probation and
conduct probation by the Interfraternity Council
at its meeting Tuesday night.

The fight stemmed from a chain of events
that had started several hours before, the exact
details of which are not yet clear.

The conflict began Friday evening as the
SPEs prepared their house for their annual
‘Caveman Party,’’ which included a mock cave
entrance to their house. SPE President John
Flippen said one of the house’s pledges wrote
offensive graffiti concerning the FIJI house.
When officers of SPE learned of the graffiti
they immediately had it removed and
apologized to the FIJI’s, according to Flippen.

‘‘The impression I got was that neither side
was too receptive to the apologies,”’ said IFC
member Eric Mutz.

The next incident occurred at around 10
p.m. when a group of about 20 Fiji’s went over
to the SPE house. Soderberg, who was in
charge of the party because Flippen was out of

town, met the group on the front porch. Words
were exchanged between the two groups, but
eventually tempers cooled off again.

In the early moming, the two groups
squared off again inside the SPE house. The
party was over by this time, but several SPE
brothers, including Soderberg were still inside.

During the fight, Soderberg supposedly
broke free and ran upstairs to his bedroom to
get his shotgun. By this time, both the
Lexington police and W&L security officers
were on the scene.

Lexington Police Sergeant A.M. Miller, who
arrested Soderberg, was in the house at the time
the shots were fired. He said he drew his own
weapon but did not fire.

Police said Soderberg was charged with
‘‘maliciously discharging a firearm within a
building,’ which is a felony.

 

 

Although the IFC has already taken action
against both fraternities, the imposed
punishment will be reviewed and possibly
amended by the Student Affairs Committee
Friday. In addition, the Student Conduct
Committee will investigate Soderberg’s actions.

IFC President Goodloe Lewis said the
council was also concerned the possession of a
firearm in a fraternity house. Both the
university and the IFC have banned possession
of any firearm in fraternity houses.

Mutz said both houses have been placed on
social probation until Nov. 26. SPE will be on
conduct probation until the end of this academic
year and FIJI will be on conduct probation until
next Oct. 30. Also, the IFC requested that FIJI
review the status of the house’s officers.

If a fraternity breaks the conduct probation,
it may face suspension of its charter.

Keg rule gets

hall

 

After two months of false fire alarms, it was the real
thing early Saturday morning for residents of Gaines Hall.

Washington and Lee security guards tripped the fire
alarm about 4:30 a.m. when a smoldering blanket in suite
262 filled the second floor hall in the southern part of
Gaines Hall with smoke. Smoke was also clouding the
adjoining hall in the eastern part of the building and the
third floor halls directly above, Head Resident Assistant

James Rambeau said.

As Lexington Fire Department volunteers doused the
blanket, several residents went door-to-door on the smoky
second and third floors alerting other residents, who were
either sleeping or ignoring the alarms.

Four false fire alarms occurred Friday night. In the
past two months there have been numerous others after
the alarm system tripped unnecessarily. The alarms,
however, did not ring automatically on Saturday. Build-
ings and Grounds Superintendent Jim Arthur said enough
smoke had not gathered in the halls to trip the alarm
system, which he said is in proper working order.

Nonetheless, Ken Ruscio, assistant Dean of Students
for Freshmen and Resident Life, is looking into the
* incident. ‘‘Whenever things like this happen it causes us
to examine things to determine if our procedures and the
system are operating as they should,’’ he said.

The fire was probably caused by the heat of a lamp,
Rambeau said. Junior Paul Mazyck had fallen asleep
with a bedside lamp on. In the course of the night,
Mazyck’s blanket twisted around the lamp’s extension
cord. Eventually, the warm lamp began burning the blan-
ket, Rambeau said, No injuries were reported.

Before Saturday’s fire, Ruscio said he was checking
a possible over-sensitivity of the system, which might
have been the cause of false alarms plaguing both Gaines

and the freshmen dormitories.

The system operates by monitoring particle movements
in the air. False alarms are triggered when motion causes
significant particle movement, Arthur said.

Virginia fire code prohibits W&L to reduce the
system’s sensitivity, Ruscio said, but he said he is trying
to determine the flexibility of the code.

 

Trick or treat?

 

 

Tricia Pheil, a junior exchange student from Sweet Briar
College, hands out Halloween candy from her Gaines Hall
suite last night as Harlan Beckley, a W&L religion professor,
follows the action. Lexington youngsters donning colorful
Halloween garb lined city streets beginning yesterday after-
noon for the annual festival. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Student naps

in local’

 

‘By Macon Miles
‘Staff Reporter

A W&L student was arrested
‘early Sunday morning and charged
‘with breaking and entering after forc-
‘ing his way into a basement apart-
‘ment of a Lexington resident at 211
Barkley Lane while he was intoxi-
cated, police said.

Freshman Garrick O’Neal Stewart
broke a window in the door in order
to get into the apartment of Lexi-
ngton resident Ann Kelly, according
to police.

Kelly, who is the assistant man-
ager of the bookstore at Southern
Seminary, was not in her apartment
at the time. Her 8-year-old daughter
was with Kelly’s mother in the house
above the apartment.

Kelly said she had been at a
Parents’ Weekend function at South-
ern Sem. before she arrived at her
apartment with her escort about 1:15
a.m.

She said that she noticed the gate
to the back yard was unlatched and
the window was broken. When she
entered the apartment she saw
Stewart asleep on her bed.

‘I didn’t know if my mom and
daughter, who were upstairs, were
dead or wounded. A lot goes through
your mind,’’ said Kelly.

She immediately phoned the Po-
lice from her kitchen and then went
to a neighbor who phoned Kelly’s
mother, who had been asleep during
the incident.

s bed

The police arrived a few minutes
later, according to Kelly. The police
arrested Stewart at approximately
1:20 am. According to Sgt. Sutton,
Stewart was intoxicated at the time.

‘*He was incoherent,’’ said Offi-
cer T.H. Pedersen.

Sutton later added that Stewart
didn’t know where he was when he
was arrested,

‘When I spoke with him that
night, he was saying that the Fijis let
him in, and that there was a party
here,’’ said Sutton.

Phi Gamma Delta President Bill
Yorio said he knew nothing of the
incident and that there was not a
party at Fiji that night.

Neither Stewart nor Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison would comment
about the incident.

Kelly said she feels sorry for
Stewart. ‘‘Obviously he has a
problem. I feel like this person needs
help.”’

According to Kelly’s mother,
Stewart had tried to break into her
house and had torn the screen on the
back door before going into Kelly's
apartment downstairs.

“T don’t blame W&L for what
happened. I just think that the young
man was very drunk and needed to
be somewhere else, probably his
room,’’ Kelly said.

Three weeks earlier Stewart was
arrested for being drunk in’ public
while trying to enter a Lexington
church. According to police, Stewart
had claimed to have been locked out
of a fraternity.

 

Gerard Doyon

Weekend packed for parents

 

By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

The 615 students expecting family
members and friends for Parents’
Weekend can plan the three days
from a schedule of events including
open houses, concerts, sporting com-
petitions and luncheons.

Upon arrival parents are encour-
aged to register in Fairfax Lounge,
where they may pick-up maps and a
final program, Assistant Director of
Development Chris Deighan said.

Department open houses, a careers
seminar, faculty appointments and a
mathematics seminar will lead up to
refreshments for freshmen and their
parents at Lee House on Friday, Nov.
2 from 4 to 5:30 p.m.

“This provides an opportunity for
those attending to meet the President
and Mrs. Lee," said Christie Davis,
Coordinator of Special Events.

Friday evening is marked by two

nod from IFC

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

A new rule banning kegs at frater-
nity parties will go on the books if a
proposed Interfraternity Council by-
law passes a second round of voting
next Tuesday.

The new rule that would ban all
beer kegs at registered fraternity
parties was approved by the council
Tuesday night. The proposal must be
approved again before it goes into
effect.

The council passed the by-law
after it rejected two other rule pro-
posals that members criticized as
being too restrictive. One proposal
called for a ban on kegs and other
communal sources of alcohol at all
fraternity functions. The other would
have banned kegs from being present
in chapter houses at any time.

The agreement on the new rule
was reached after members questioned
the definition of a fraternity function
as outlined in the first proposal.
Members said they felt there was no
reason to ban kegs at functions where
only brothers were present and in-
sisted that the ban apply only to
registered parties.

‘‘What if a few guys want to get
a keg to sit and watch football in the
afternoon?’’ one member asked.
“They should be able to do that.
We're just tying our own noose with
this rule.’’

IFC President Goodloe Lewis,
who was obviously disappointed by
the modification of the original pro-
posal, said after the meeting that he

thought individual fraternity house
corporations would push the Alumni
Fraternity Council to impose a total
ban on kegs since the IFC could not
make the rule itself.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
said the ban on communal sources of
alcohol was partly intended to lessen
fraternities’ liability by technically not
allowing the fraternity to serve its
alcohol to underage drinkers.

“It’s hard for me to sit here
working for the university and tell
you it’s okay to break the law be-
cause its not okay,’’ he said. ‘‘But if
you’re going to allow it to be broken,
it should happen in a way that it puts
your house at the least risk.’’

In reaction to an incident last
weekend at the Sigma Phi Epsilon
house in which a brother shot his
shotgun at the ceiling during a party
(see related story), Lewis warned
fraternity members that firearms are
not allowed in fraternity houses.

He said storing guns in houses is
a violation of the university’s Stan-
dards for Fraternities.

‘Actually it’s a suspendable
offense since it’s a violation of the
standards,’’ he said.

Lewis also warned that there must
be a sober house officer at all parties
to keep things under control.

“If you think the party is getting
out of hand, just call the police and
they’ll come and kick everyone out
of the house for you,’’ Lewis said.
‘Chief Beard has told me they won't
hassle you about it, and if they do,
come tell me and I'll talk to him
again.”’

Art professor Doyon dies

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Dr. Gerard M. Doyon, professor
emeritus of art history, died Saturday
of complications due to abdominal
cancer. He was 67.

Born in Manchester, N.H., Dr.
Doyon served in the U.S. Army
during World War II. In addition to
other wartime commendations, he was
awarded the Bronze Star for valor in

musical performances, beginning with
the Choral Ensemble Concert at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

In addition, the Student Activities
Board and Independent Union will
present a show by "Wanda and the
White Boys" in the GHQ at 8:30
p.m. with appetizers and a cash bar.

On Saturday, Nov. 3, students and
parents can wake up to a free con-
tinental breakfast and information
session at 8:30 a.m. in the Lewis
Hall faculty lounge.

Later that morning, seminar panels
on student and academic life will be
held, as well as a model law class.

President Wilson will address
parents at 11:30 a.m. in Lee Chapel,
followed by a luncheon on the front
lawn, The cost for lunch is $5 or 5
points for adults and $3 for children.

The football game against
Guilford will begin at 1:30 p.m.

Other athletic events include an
all-day Southern Conference Water
Polo Championships and a rugby

combat.

After the war, Dr. Doyon earned
a bachelor of fine arts degree from
the Manchester Institute of the Arts
in 1949, and a bachelor’s degree in
philosophy from St. Anselm’s College
in 1951. While studying on a
fellowship in Paris, he received
degrees in art history from the Ecole
des Beaux-Arts and Ecole du Musée
in 1952. Back in the states, Dr.
Doyon earned a master’s degree in
art history (1956), and, finally, a

doctorate in French art from Boston
University in 1964.

Dr. Doyon taught at St. Anselm’s
and Florida State University before
joining the W&L faculty in 1968 as
head of the art division, department
of fine arts. He was elevated to full
professor of art history in 1971, the
position in which he served until his
retirement last May.

Dr. Doyon wrote and lectured

Q Please see DOYON page 4

 

Parents listen to Dean John Elrod deliver a speech last year.

game versus Christopher-Newport at
11:30 a.m.

The GHQ will be serve a special
dinner from 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. Satur-
day with entertainment provided by
pianist Art Wheeler, the musical host
for Virginia’s 1990 Film Festival.

The University-Rockbridge Sym
phony Orchestra will perform at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Once again, Washington St. will
be closed from the University Center
to the gymnasium on Friday from 11

a.m. until midnight and Saturday
from 9 am. to 9 p.m. in order to
facilitate parking.

In efforts to minimize _ the
shortage, the University has requested
that students carpool, walk or bike to

classes Friday.
AA A a ETE NT OL te

 

 

OPINION

ee

Students do good
community work

There’s a new book on the market, provocatively titled
Fraternity Gang Rape. In fact, you can find it in the “‘New
Book’’ section of the University Library. On the dust cover,
it claims to expose the ‘‘daily life in the fraternity.’” Among
the daily routine, it would seem, are pornography, ritualistic
dances, and gang rape. Makes you wonder where they get
time to go to class.

Greek organizations are, for better or for worse, on the
run these days. Fraternities and those who belong to them
are increasingly being seen as larger-than-life monsters,
whose only desire is to haze your son and rape your
daughter. In our opinion, that is less than accurate.

Those who view Washington and Lee students as nothing
more than drunken nuisances, frolicking in an undergraduate
den-of-iniquity, must have been quite taken aback last night
to see several fraternity members escorting tiny trick-or-
treaters through the streets of Lexington to collect their
candy.

The escort program was initiated by the Interfraternity
Council, in an attempt to provide a useful service for the
community and win a few friends for what is undoubtedly
the most-heavily criticized student group--fraternity members.
Last night’s endeavor, however, was just the latest
community service effort on the part of W&L students.

Notwithstanding the view of many area residents that
members of our university are lazy, callous and self-
centered, W&L students are involved in a number of
community service ventures. With many of their efforts
largely unpublicized, we would like to take this opportunity
to commend those involved in projects such as Big Brother,
Habitat for Humanity, Adopt-a-Highway and Rockbridge
Area Recreation Organization.

And surprise, surprise, all who subscribe to the short-
sighted view that fraternities are merely houses of the
unholy, fraternities are in the vanguard in a number of these
projects. Sororities also do much more than their share of
organizing and executing community service projects.

We hope that the IFC continues the policy of being
active in the area of community service, because that
organization can be instrumental in spuring some of those
fraternities that have been lax in the area of community
service to greater efforts.

It is our belief that by maintaining an active and
honorable presence in the community, that the Washington
and Lee Greek system can do nothing but create goodwill
between the school and the citizens of Lexington. These
good relations will benefit the image of every W&L student
in the eyes of the community, and might just come in handy
in solving many of the disputes that arise regarding student
interests and rights versus the interests and rights of the
people of Lexington.

To our readers

We must be forced to ask that members of our
community no longer submit anonymous or unsigned letters
to the editor. While we have allowed a few unsigned letters
to appear in print so far this year, we must insist from here
on that no more such letters will be printed.

By no means do we wish to discourage contributions to
the paper, for we are here to provide a public forum for all
sorts of student opinion, but we wish to stress that all letters
must be signed, so that we can verify the veracity of the
letter. If the author requests it, we will consider withholding
that person’s name. Of course, all letters must conform to
obscenity regulations and must obey all current libel laws.

Quote of the Week

With such self-improvement we will not have to have some
magazine tell us how good an university we are. We will
know it ourself.

— The Vanderbilt University student newspaper, providing
the world with a case in point of exactly why they were not
ranked among the top 25 national universities by U.S. News
& World Report.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1,

1990

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

Kappa Alpha
replies to
Critical
Probation

Members of the Student Affairs Committee:

On October 11, 1990, I received a letter from
Dean Howison’s office stating that the Alpha
Chapter of the Kappa Alpha Order had been
placed on Critical Probation for the 1990-91
academic year for violating the Washington and
Lee University Standards for Fraternities.
acknowledge the fact that the behavior of the
chapter on the evening of September 21 was
unacceptable by ordinary standards, and in viola-
tion of the rules that govern fraternities. I am,
however, concerned over a) the lack of focus and
excessive burden of Critical Probation, and b) the
lack of confidentiality and due process in the
proceedings of the Student Affairs Committee.

The following is a summary of the events of
September 21. At approximately 11:30 p.m., the
police notified me that the party was ‘‘out of
control’’ and needed to be shut down within five
minutes. While some members were. out. of
control; and while the organization bears a.
collective responsibility for their actions, Robert
Foresman, a member Alpha Chapter House
Corporation who was present at the request of
the police, saw control restored by the chapter
officers within the allotted time frame. The
police and the House Corporation are in agree-
ment that the chapter officers acted effectively,
and that there were no kegs on the premises. No
written violation or summons was issued, That
night, Robert notified other members of the
Corporation. Henry Foresman and Bill Bean met
with Dean Atkins later in the week, and, as I
understand it, received the impression that if the
Corporation took proper disciplinary action, no
further action would be warranted. My meeting
with Mr. Atkins that week, and a subsequent
conversation with the President of the IFC, led
me to the same conclusion.

The meeting of the House Corporation took
place on Saturday, September 29, prior to any
action by the University or the IFC. The Board
of Directors, of which Jason Gordon, KA’s

treasurer, and I are both voting members, dis-
cussed what course of action should be taken.
We voted unanimously to place the chapter on
conduct probation for the academic year. Other
provisions, to which we all agreed, included
requiring Alpha to employ a House Mother in
January, at an estimated cost of $20,000 payable
by the chapter next semester. The fact that it
was our unanimous decision illustrates a col-
laborative effort between the chapter and the
Corporation. It also demonstrates the officers’
commitment to reform. In effect, the Corporation
did not ‘‘punish’’ the chapter. Rather, the
chapter realized the need for a change in its
collective behavior, and made an effort to do so
in conjunction with the Board. At no time since
the incident has KA failed to acknowledge the
severity of its infraction or its unacceptable
behavior. On the following evening, there was
a band party at the House which concluded
without incident.

Dean Atkins, Dean Howison, and IFC Presi-
dent Goodloe Lewis reviewed the conduct proba-
tion, never giving any indication that the terms
were anything but sufficient. Mr. Howison
expressed satisfaction that KA had taken care of
the matter on its own, and Mr. Lewis expressed
confidence in the chapter officers’ ability to
adhere to the conditions.

In spite of his silence, Mr. Atkins referred the
matter to the IFC. From that point, IFC pro-
ceeded according to its constitution, and placed
the chapter on six weeks of social probation,
subject to review. I was present at the Judicial
Board's hearing, and answered questions regard-
ing the incident. I understand the correlation
between the loss of social privileges and abuses
in a social situation. The terms of the probation
were precise and instructive, and fashioned with
the improvement of KA in mind.

Following a procedure that seems to be in
transition, SAC reviewed the IFC’s decision, and
imposed a harsher penalty. While SAC may be
empowered to increase a penalty levied by the
IFC, it seems arbitrary for it to do so without
first-hand information from the accused. In the
process of unanimously voting to place KA on
Critical Probation, SAC never contacted the
chapter leadership. Please understand the mes-
sage this sends to the chapter. If SAC simply

 

LETTERS

wished to concur with the Corporation’s resolu-
tion, which is the impression I received from Mr.

Atkins and Mr. Hewison, then Critical Probation
hardly seems necessary.

Mr. Howison stated that ‘‘a further violation
of the Standards for Fraternities or other serious

incidents of misconduct’’ would result in a
suspension of the chapter for a minimum of five
years. Violations of the Standards can include
such infractions as noise or litter violations. In
addition, ‘‘other serious incidents of misconduct’’
can include any number of criminal activities by
an individual, for which Mr. Howison would hold
KA accountable for according to his statement.
Both deans have told me that incidents of this
nature would not warrant suspension, but KA has
received nothing but an informal, verbal assur-
ance. Given my recent conversations with the
deans, I am reluctant to leave the present terms
unspecified. If SAC is prepared to increase an
existing punishment, then it must also be pre-
pared to make the punishment fit the crime.

I mentioned earlier that I received Dean
Howison’s letter on October 11. By that time, I
had already heard about SAC’s decision. On the
evening of October 5, I stumbled into a conver-
sation between a KA, a student member of SAC,
and members of another fraternity, who were
discussing the fact that KA had been placed on
Critical Probation. After receiving official notice,
I met with Mr. Howison, who acknowledged that
the details of SAC mee!
confidential. _ He assured me that an effort would
be made to maintain privacy’ in the’ future, with-
out any indication of personal liability on that
score. Shortly after the meeting, however, I
received a phone call from a journalism student
who wished to interview me about Critical
Probation, and KA’s involvement. She explained
that Dean Howison suggested the topic to her
earlier in the week. It seems to me that ordi-
nary standards would prevent an administrator
from discussing sanctions levied against a chapter
prior to official notification. This action displays
punishment as the priority rather than instruction.

I understand that the Fraternity Renaissance
requires a change in the attitude and behavior of
fraternity members. The implementation of
Critical Probation may set the necessary prece-
dent. However, it is difficult to believe that

interest in Kappa Alpha played as much ofa role
in SAC’s action as did the desire to set a stan-
dard for other fraternities. While KAs are
prepared to make serious efforts to live up to the
high standards we set for our members-- stan-
dards that seem even more important during this
Renaissance-- I find it difficult to respond posi-
tively, when the factors against the chapter are
made to seem so vague and destructive.

I would, therefore, ask the Student Affairs
Committee to reexamine its policy of increasing
penalties imposed by the IFC without further
participation of the accused, and would encourage
it to seek a clearer link between punishments and
the specific behavior of the Committee wishes
to see amended. I would also ask SAC to
address the practice of its members of broadcast-
ing Committee decisions prior to the official
notification of the accused.

Sincerely,

Niko Lorentzatos
President, Alpha Chapter
Kappa Alpha Order

Phi article
promotes
race-baiting

I would like to comment on a recent article
in the Phi that was particularly disturbing. It
appears as if certain individuals are attempting to
create an unhealthy hysteria on campus and in
the Lexington community.

The issue that needs to be addressed is the
Lloyd’s article on ‘‘gang’’ activities. Leaving
aside the questionable reproduction of factual
statements, the author states that a Black youth
with a high-top fade came into Lloyd’s. He
proceeded toward the back to play a video-game
and wasn’t armed or anything. Lo and behold, he_
was a member of the infamous ‘‘L-posse’’ The |
lesson is that he looked harmless enough, but he
was a member of a ‘‘gang.’’ Is the implication
that one should fear Blacks with high-top fades?
I hope that this is as ridiculous to you as it is to
me. One is an alarmingly small step away from ‘
advocating fear of Blacks whether they have
high-top fades or not.

When a local youth was asked about this ‘‘L-

S$ are intended to be =”

posse’’ he claimed that there was no such thing
(in alignment with police and Lloyd’s employee
sentiments). The author placed this fictitious ‘‘L-
posse’’ in the article anyway. However, the
article does not cite one incident that the so-
called ‘‘L-posse’’ committed, yet they are one of
the focuses of the article.

To the young women that are scared to eat at
Lloyd’s because Blacks loiter outside -- see a
psychiatrist! I think that the problem in large part

is with you. I can often be found around more
than one other Black student, yet I pose no
danger to you. I resented your stereotyping of
Black people. It was uncalled for, unproductive
and repulsive. It has even come to my attention
that the young ‘‘ladies’’ were kidding. The whole
thing was some sort of perverted joke. It would
have been fitting if the statements were made
anonymously because then you would have been
like the unknown comic, ...and he’s not funny
either.

All of these articles about ‘‘mischievous’’
Blacks attacking ‘‘angelic’’ W&L students is also
disturbing in light of a particular UNREPORTED
incident last year. A Black W&L student was
attending a party at a fraternity that will remain
unnamed. He was accosted by a White W&L
student for wearing a W&L food service hat.
Other people had on acts, but he gravitated to
this particular student. As you would expect, a
verbal confrontation ensued between the two.

One of the very drunk White’ student’s frater-
nity brothers; who is*also White; stepped into
fight for him since he had a better chance of
winning. The new combatant physically assaulted
the Black W&L student...for wearing a hat!
Looks racially motivated to me. Was it racially
motivated? If such were the case, I guess the Phi
missed one. Why did not the concerned students
of W&L at that party report this incident? Was
it because he was Black, soit did not concern
them? I’m starting to wonder.

Generalizing comments about Blacks (no
matter what their hairstyle) is a personal affront.
If civility is still an element of W&L tradition, it
definitely needs a revival. Articles like the
feature on Lloyd’s promote race-baiting, not
civility. Is this the face W&L community would
like to show to a portion of its student body?

Sincerely,
Damon L. Sanders, ’91

Unnecessary
adjectives in
Phi story

I must admit, the first time I read the Lloyd’s
article last week, I didn’t catch the unnecessary
adjective. But when someone else pointed it out
to me, I read a little more carefully.

I don’t doubt Chris Swann’s fact that the man
who attacked Mr. Fleming and Mr. Josey was
‘*black,’’ but I’m not sure I understand the
significance of his race in this attack.

If the Phi wants to get ‘‘colorful,’’ how does
this sound?

‘*A white male, Colin Fleming, and another
caucasian, Robert Josey, both sophomores, said
they were attacked inside of Lloyd’s by a black
male in September of last year.’’

Sounds ridiculous to me. What I hope to
illustrate is that racial distinction in this sentence,
and in several places in the Lloyd’s story, is not
necessary.

Sincerely,
‘*A somewhat off-white’’ Christopher Bray

Praise for the
women’s
soccer team

Coach Hathorn and the women’s soccer team:
Hold your neads high — we are so very
proud of each one of you. Your toughness and
class throughout the season, and especially in the
championship game,were inspiring and joyous to
watch. Thanks for giving this school such cause
for celebrating together. Next season when we
have our voices back, we'll be there rooting for
you, and have all the confidence in the world
that you will win the ODAC title if not more.

- The students of W&L

 

 

 
rey

onl
’ =

vr

praise

i

sare me

‘

—
4

4

pm ae Be Tee tm Ror ee Matern in mee

Ree rn tee rere ee ens Ti i lle —

Ane

OPINION

 

The. Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

Sbar tells all about polo team

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

In a gutless effort to pacify outraged female
readers, who found my last article concerning
issues of the flesh ‘‘repulsive,’’ ‘‘disgusting,’’
‘‘demented,'’ and ‘‘about as funny as a sexually
transmitted disease,’’ I have decided to write a
family-oriented column on the subject of naked
lesbian mud-wrestling. Of course, I’m only joking.
My real intent is to write a relatively smut-free
article about water polo, an ancient sport invented
by Adam and Eve shortly after the fall of man.
Being a member of Washington and Lee’s water
polo team, I must warn readers that this article is
biased and self-serving.

To begin with, water polo is extremely stren-
uous. It takes endurance, strength, speed and a low
intelligence level to swim furiously up and down
a pool chasing after a yellow ball, while opposing
players kick you in the face, punch you in the
stomach and hold you under water until you tum
blue and pass out from a lack of oxygen. To
prepare for the rigors of the season, the W&L
water polo team holds an end-of-summer training
session in which they rise every morning at the
crack of dawn and spend the day participating in
the coach’s sadistic conditioning drills. Occasional-
ly, a naive freshman makes the mistake of over
sleeping during pre-season training. Luckily for the
freshman, he has caring teammates who take the
time to run over to his dorm room and hurdle onto
his bed. It’s a great treat waking up underneath a
pile of guys who haven’t brushed their teeth,
shaved, showered or changed their clothes in
weeks. Just like it would be swell to wake up in

Africa underneath a pile of elephant dung.

The next water polo point of interest concerns
apparel. In the interest of reducing drag and at the
expense of style and human dignity, water polo
players wear competitive bathing suits that are
skimpy and obscene. The only difference between
underwear and a competitive bathing suit is that
underwear is reasonably comfortable. However,
most players are so accustomed to wearing these
suits that they become de-sensitized to the in-
evitable indecency. Some players actually desire to
wear even more revealing suits. Early in the
season, a rebellious faction of the team, lead by
talented goalie P.J. Waicus, suggested that we wear
leopard-skin butt-thongs in order to increase game
attendance. This lead to a team controversy that
local historians are currently calling the Butt-
thong Schism. The issue was finally settled in a
violent inter-squad game of Jungle Ball, which is
essentially water polo without rules and other
safety precautions. Luckily, the butt-thong faction
was narrowly defeated. For the time being, the
team is reconciled. However, P.J., who is suffering
from an eye injury, has vowed to rally butt-thong
supporters like field player Scott Strader and return
with a vengeance.

The problem with water polo is that the game
makes very little sense to people living outside of
California, where the game hold religious sig-
nificance. Fans generally don’t understand the game
and consequently spend most of their time trying
to figure out when they should perform vital fan
duties such as yelling obscenities at the referees.
Of course, veteran polo fans like Severn Duvall,
who is a mild-mannered English professor by day,
can instinctively sense when it is appropriate to
yell obscenities at the referees. Perhaps the veteran
polo fans acquired these skills by watching Coach

Page ‘‘jugular vein’’ Remillard, who emits thick
jets of vaporized rage when referees make bad
decisions. Coach Remillard is prone to get angry at
referees often because he can detect the slightest
technical error. Of course, this is to be expected
from a man who spent ten years of his life in a
Trappist Monastery memorizing water polo rule
books. Because I have to go to practice tomorrow,
I think that now is a good time to get off the
subject of Coach Remillard and onto other topics.

While other students are engaged in week-end
debauchery, the W&L polo team is busy traveling
to remote locations across North America for
tournaments. In order to avoid boredom on these
long road trips, players begin behaving like hyper-
active elementary school students on a field trip to
an amusement park. Two week-ends ago, for
example, Alan Herrick spent about 45 minutes in
a hotel hallway trying to write on my arm with a
yellow high-lighting pen. A lot of tournaments are
held at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. It’s
fun playing there because the team gets to eat in
the Navy Dining Hall, which is roughly the size of
Iowa. It’s just too bad the food tastes like horse
dung.

Another problem with Navy is that my team-
mate, Jim ‘‘the duck’’ Dunleavy, lost my magical
blue towel in the athletic dormitory. The team ,
which is very superstitious, hasn’t been the same
without my blue towel and we are desperate to get
it back. If anyone reading this has any leads or
tips concerning the blue towel, please call Jim
immediately at (703) 464-3762 (if you are out of
state, feel free to call collect). In the meantime, I
suggest you entertain yourselves by attending this
week-end’s home tournament. If you want to find
out game times, or just need someone to talk to,
call Jim at the number listed above.

W&L Greek tax is unjustific

 

only this month, when the treasurers

Chapter of Delta Tau Delta in

Greek life’ were right on target. The

MY VIEW

' By Richard J. Peltz,

' Patrick B. McCabe,

‘ Richard E. Hill Jr. and
* Robert H. Wilson

To W&L Greeks and their Parents:
A serious matter has come to
» our attention, that of the’*Greek tax’’
which has made the news of late in
‘ The Ring-tum Phi. We have decided
» to withdraw our support of this
| billing -- $100 per year for each
member of a house not being
+ renovated, such as ours this year; and
$400 per year for each member of a
house renovated, such as ours next

 

{ -yeary should....we . propeedy with,

-Renaissance.,.-- pending further
justification for,this charge from the
university.

University Treasurer Lawrence
* Broomall has explained that the
‘ Greek tax is to aid the university in
the financing of the Fratemity

" Renaissance program. Renaissance

+ funding is not, however, sufficient

| justification for the tax, for a number

*\ of reasons.

. First and foremost, the Greek tax
is contrary to the university's

‘| obligations under the Standards for
1. Fraternities. Article I Section D

| subsection 1a of the Standards states
‘| that “The University / Shall provide:
+! / Financial support to individual

' fraternity chapters through: a.
‘| Programs to generate revenue for
i renovation, repair and maintenance.”’
i The Standards do not even imply that

4 such revenue would be obtained by a
i direct charge to students.
" Second, the university notified

fraternity treasurers of the Greek tax

   

were reminded to include the tax in
their billings. It is the university’s
responsibility to make rising costs
known to students and bill-payers,
usually , which the university
failed to do. Students learned of the
billing only a matter of weeks ago,
primarily from The Ring-tum Phi and
house treasurers, not from __ the
university. Most parents will learn of
the new charge a matter of weeks
before it is due. What if the
university gave so little notice to
parents about a five percent increase
in tuition? Would that be acceptable?
Mr. Broomall said _that
knowledge of the tax was lost
somewhere between the
Administration, and students and
“I’m sorry I made the

“mistake in, assuming that leaders are _

Mr... Broomall.
Whether fault lies with student
leaders or not, it is not the
responsibility of students to keep
other students aware of university
billings.

Mr. Broomall, as university
treasurer, did apologize for the error.
One might assume that parents or
students who ‘‘forget’’ to pay the tax
can ‘‘apologize’’ likewise without
penalty.

Third, the university has placed
no end in sight for this Greek tax.
While renovations have a target date
for completion, there is no indication
from the university that the tax will
be tabled when renovations are
finished. Quite the contrary, in fact.
Mr. Broomall told The Ring-tum Phi
last week that the tax may increase
with costs. If renovation costs
increase when renovations are over,
then something is not right. Will the
tax not decrease when costs decrease?
Fourth, by our calculations, Phi

Jeaders,’’ said

particular has sufficient equity in the
house to claim Renaissance is
pretty fair trade between Delt and the
university. To assess a tax indicates
that Delt is not providing its fair
share of the Renaissance cosis in
turning over its title. To charge Deli
an assessment beyond its title is
essentially charging Delt for
renovations to other houses which are
costing more than the equity they are
contributing. Mr. Broomall and the
administration don’t have a problem
with this. Mr. Broomall said that the
administration knew well beforehand
that there would be ‘‘inequilies’’ in
the system. Yet throughout
Renaissance negotiations with the
university, Delt has repeatedly been
told that the ultimate goal of the
program is to bring all houses toa
level ‘of equality. It seems the
university is mot above using
hypocritical means to achieve noble
ends.

Fifth, because of our
advantageous financial position, the
acquiescence of our Brothers in going
ahead with the program was largely
in a spirit of cooperation between our
house and the university community,
not a reluctance to tackle the
renovations ourselves, a plan which is
financially feasible. Now it seems
that the university has taken our
participation for granted and plans to
take advantage of houses such as
ours, which are entering Renaissance
with generous postures.

Sixth, the feelings of Mr.
Broomall and Associate Dean of
Students Leroy Atkins in last week’s
Ring-tum Phi indicate an ignorance of
the financial standing of Greeks.
Kappa Alpha Theta President
Kimberly Booth’s fears of heavy
financial burdens negatively affecting

primary motivation we have observed
for Delt ‘‘deactivation’’ has been
financial reasons. Further, many men
have failed to pledge solely for
financial reasons. Now the university
is going to make it even harder for
students to participate in the Greek
experience, a. socially and
academically beneficial part of life at
W&L.

For Mr. Broomall and Dean
Atkins to suggest that $400 or even
$100 per year will not have much
impact on individuals is typical of the
ignorant attitude that ‘‘everybody at
W&L has more money than they
know what to do with.’’ The
Financial Aid Office could surely
provide statistics to the contrary.

Chi Psi Treasurer Joe Milcoff
was very right last week when he
said ‘*This’ is not © a’ “communist
country.”” Yet the university
continues to regard all fraternities as
a single institution which generates a
single sum of revenue and requires a
single sum in costs. Yes, we get
along fairly well. No, we are not all
the same. We do not simply divide
up the freshmen men into even
numbered groups when they come to
campus in the fall; rather, we
compete for quality men who we
want to be our Brothers. The very
fact that we compete should be a
sign to the university that we are
different, independent entities that
must be dealt with, each in a
different context. Specifically, each
house has different strengths to offer
the Renaissance program, and each
has different liabilities. You cannot
throw all strengths and liabilities into
one big pot and dish it out in even
helpings. It just doesn’t work that

Please see Tax page 5

 

 

 

  

Help wanted
Interested in being an advertising
salesman for The Ring-tum Phi?
We currently need two or three
more salesmen. For more informa-
il] 463-8581.

tion, please

Go skiing
The Ski Club will hold a brief
organizational meeting for anyone
interested tonight at 7 in Room 7
in Newcomb Hall.

Foreign affairs
The Foreign Affairs Club will
hold a meeting tonight at 7:30, in
Newcomb Hall. We will be dis-
cussing our trip to the Princeton
model U.N. in Febuary and other
upcoming events. New members
are welcome.

Politics

The Political Review is interested
in articles and papers written by
students and faculty for the
fall/winter issue. Deadline is Nov.
15. Please bring all submissions
to Carol Caulkins in Room 104
of the University Center. All
submissions should include your
name, year, and telephone num-
ber. If there are any problems or
questions, please contact Ingrid
Schroeder or Megan Koch.

Good luck

Those wishing to apply for a
summer internship with The

. Washington Post should send a

request for an application to:
Summer News Program, News
Department, The Washington Post,
1150 15th Street, N.W., Washing-
ton D.C. 20071. Applicants must
have an interest in journalism,
writing ability and typing skills.
Previous experience al a commer-
cial and/or college newspaper is
preferred.

More politics

Pi Sigma Alpha, the national
political fraternity, is looking for
new members. If you have taken
10 or more credits in politics, and
have a 3.0 or better in those
courses, your are qualified to join
Pi Sigma Alpha. This year, the
fraternity will host several speak-
ers, have a debate, and will lead
a voter registration drive. If inter-
ested in becoming a member,
contact Prof. Handelman or John
McManus.

Nice eyes

Come out and vote for the hottest
eyes on campus! Delta Gamma is
sponsoring their First Annual
Beautiful Eyes Contest next week
in front of the Co-op, and the
eyes that earn the most money
win. All proceeds will go to the
Delta Gamma Foundation to bene-
fit Sight Conservation and Aid to
the Blind. For more information,

please contact Cathy Lopice
464-4553. rT

IGENERAL NOTES

  

Art reception
“Red Letter Days: British Sport-
ing Art of the 18th and 19th
Centuries’’ will be on display at
the Anne Gary Pannell Art Gal-
lery at Sweet Briar College. On
Nov. 9, there will be a preview
reception at the gallery.

Fight M.D.

Contribute to the fight against
Muscular Dystrophy. Sign up in
the D-Hall tonight to give up
your dinner on Nov. 8. All pro-
ceeds will go to: the Superdance
fund.

Orientation

The Mock Convention Steering
Committee will hold two oricnta-
tion sessions for students inicrest-
ed in participating in the 1992
Mock Democratic Convention.
They will be held at 7 and 9 p.m.
on Nov. 8 in Room 203 of Reid
Hall.

Card game

We’re looking for one or two
other people who understand the
card game pinochle and would be
interested in getting a game to-
gether. For information, please
call Josh at 463-2397, or Colin at
463-9286.

IU/SAB party

The Independent Union, in con-
junction with the Student Activi-
ties Board and the Student Tele-
phone Union, will hold a wine
and cheese reception at 8:30 p.m.
tomorrow night in the Fairfax
Lounge. Afterwards, there will be
a concert in the Pit. All students
and their parents are invited.

Booksale

The mostly annual University
booksale will run from Thursday,
Nov. 1 until Nov. 8 in the Uni-
versity Library lobby.

Hockey
Anyone interested in joining the
W & L Ice Hockey club should
contact Louis Kaye, 464-5477.

FD theme

What do you want the Fancy
Dress theme to be? The SAB
wants your ideas for a theme.
Turn in written ideas at Carol
Caulkins office in the University
Center by Tuesday, Nov. 6

Get It Out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes! Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside the Ring-Tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

 

~ - - - - «

~

~ .

    

Interviews and photos
by Amanda Hughen

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

 

 

Ween)
wiatneny o pithie i err

Militias ies
SOC Re RRR A

 

 

 

Travis Shaw, °91, Virginia
Beach, VA — ‘‘Can you charge it
home?”’

 

Lisa Dowling, °93, Baltimore,
MD — “‘I think it is ridiculous,
we shouldn’t have to pay it and
I can’t afford it.’’

getting slapped with

Joe Milcoff, 92, Pittsburg, PA -
- “In reality, we (Chi Psi) are

taxation and will see no benefil
from the money we pay.’

 

Holly Buffington, 92, Birming-

' ham, AL — ‘‘If they are going to
: be taxing the entire Greek system,
they need to tax girls’ schools,

independents and cadets, too.

  

What do you think about the Greek tax?

 

 

 

 

 

Pete Klingelhofer, ’91,
Baltimore, MD - ‘‘What are you
talking about?

Catharine Caldwell, ’91, Birmin-
gham, AL = ‘‘I just hope Buddy
and the Housing Corporation have
a good February Break.”’

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

NEWS
EC reps

attend

honor seminar

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Junior Executive Committee
Reps. Clayton Kennington and Carol-
ine Wight represented the Washington
and Lee Honor System at a five-day
honor conference at the U. S. Military
Academy last week.

About 60 representatives from
some 20 schools attended, according
to Kennington and Wight, most of
them from military academies, includ-
ing Virginia Military Institute. The
group was divided first into thirds
where each delegation presented their
honor system to the group and an-
swered questions.

‘*They were impressed that we
were totally student-administered,”’
said Wight, ‘‘and they were very
impressed that the single sanction
worked.”’

 

 

 

Caroline Wight

Wight said that final say in most
of the academies’ honor systems is in
the school administration rather than

a student organization. Moreover,
gradations in sanctions are common,
such as giving greater tolerance to
freshmen over seniors, or someone
who confesses over someone who is
turned in.

Wight also said many systems
have ‘‘toleration clauses,’’ such as ‘‘a
student will not lie, cheat or steal, or

Enclosed is

Name:

 

tolerate a student lying, cheating or
stealing.”

“Some systems, such as Rice,
apply only to academic violations,”’
said Kennington. ‘‘They say nothing
about daily life or acting honorably.”

The large groups were broken
down into groups of six for the re
mainder of the conference. They
were charged with creating the ‘‘ideal
honor system,’’ said Kennington and
Wight, ‘‘that could be implemented in
any school.”’

Kennington said his small group
decided that implementing an honor
system at a school previously without
one would require a multi-sanction
system to start. Otherwise, **nobody
would turn anyone in,’’ said Ken-
nington.

‘*A vote down the line,”’ he said,
would change the system to single
sanction.

Kennington and Wight received a
number of suggestions to improve the
W&L Honor System, including a
mock-closed trial, honor committees
to orient small groups of students to
the honor system, and a test on the
system that new students must pass.

‘“‘That was the main thing that
struck me,’’ said Wight, ‘‘that we
need more education.’’

The University of Virginia, Duke
University and Princeton University
were among other civilian schools at
the conference, according to Kenning-
ton and Wight.

In other business, Sophomore EC
Rep. Kirk Ogden expressed concern
about theft from dormitories by stu-
dents at area women’s schools.

EC President Tom Hatcher remin-
ded W&L students ‘‘that while they
should feel safe, to be careful,’’ espe-
cially on weekends when students visit
from other schools.

Hatcher also announced that the
EC will review the 1989-90 proposals
of the Constitutional Revisions Com-
mittee on Nov. 12.

I MAS WW. QQ GQ SSS Sen

ms pepe aor wegen

PAR
ALUMNI

stay informed of what’s going on
at Washington and ‘Lee

Subscribe to

   

ata or

The Ring-tum Phi

W&L’s only student newspaper
P.O. Box 899
Lexington, Va.

24450

ee en ee ee

my check for $25

Please bill me when my issues

start arriving

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990
TRS Sai NOR ee aera

4

 

 

 

Friday, November 2
8:00 a.m. Classes Begin. Parents are welcome to join their
students in their classrooms.
9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Registration University Center
Fairfax Lounge
9:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. *Open Houses Academic Departments
and University Offices
2:00 p.m. Careers Seminar: Northen - University
“Where Our Graduates Go” Library
2:00-4:30 p.m. ** Appointments with Individual
faculty, administration Offices
4:00-5:30 p.m. Open House for Freshmen Lee House
and their parents
8:00 p.m. Concert: Choral Ensembles Lee Chapel
9:30 p.m. Live entertainment sponsored General
by the Student Activities Board = Headquarters
Saturday, November 3
All Day Water Polo: Twombly Pool
Souther Conf. Championships
8:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. *Open Houses Academic Departments
and University Offices
8:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Registration University Center
Fairfax Lounge
8:30 am. Continental Breakfast Lewis Hall
with the School of Law Faculty Lounge
faculty, administration

Busy weekend planned for parents;

9:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. **Appointments with faculty, Individual
administration Offices
9:00 -10:00 a.m. Seminar Panels: TBA
1) Student Life
2) Academic Life
9:15 a.m. School of Law Lewis Hall,
Information Panel Moot Coun Room
10:00 a.m. Model first-year law class Lewis Hall
Moot Court Room
10:15-11:15a.m. Seminar Panels: 2nd Session TBA
1) Student Life
2) Academic Life
11:30 a.m. Report to Parents Lee Chapel
President John D. Wilson
12:15 -1:15 p.m. Luncheon Front Lawn
1:30 p.m. Football: W&L vs. Guilford Wilson Field
8:00 p.m. Concert: University -Rockbridge Lee Chapel
Symphony Orchestra
Sunday, November 4
3:00 p.m. Concert: American Boychoir Lee Chapel

* The Open House Schedule will be available at registration.
** Students must arrange each 15-minute appointment.

Please mark your calendar for next year’s Parents’ Weekend. The dates are

November 1-2, 1991.

 

 

 

DOYON

from page 1

extensively in his specialty, 19th
century French art. He was the author
of a three-volume paperback series
Art by the Masters, published in
1967. He also lectured yearly at the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.

While at Washington and Lee, Dr.
Doyon was an artist as well as a
teacher. He hosted several art
exhibitions in the duPont Art Gallery.
For many years, Dr. Doyon drew for
the News-Gazette as its -editorial
cartoonist. In addition, he was a
strong supporter the Fine Arts in
Rockbridge (FAIR) summer program
for children.

Demir ay nme

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address:

 

 

ee

 

Cee. | ak |

= ee ccc ccinticstiheseennseclncslailcnlaia aia iii ada ils

He L™™hBEAEXT Wy ©  » nndndndd»]§’§ MM WV

In 1984, Dr. Doyon was awarded
the Jefferson Davis Medal for
Research in the History of the South
for tracing the history of the statue of
Robert E. Lee in Lee Chapel.

Dr. Doyon will, perhaps, be
missed most due to his charm and
antics in the classroom.

“I really enjoyed my work for
him because he was one of those
people who loved both teaching and
the students,’’ said Christie Davis,
89. Davis work studied with Dr.
Doyon during her junior year. ‘‘I was
composed until I saw his wife at the
funeral,’’ which ws held yesterday,

Davis continued. ‘‘They were the
most adorable couple.’’

“Gerard was very fond of
dressing up,’’ recalled Professor
Albert Gordon of fine arts. He said
students as well as faculty will
probably remember his love for the
Fancy Dress ball. ‘‘He and his wife
would always dress according to the
theme. They always had a great time,
and went out of their way to help
others enjoy themselves. He was a
fun colleague.’’

Dr. Doyon’s retirement last year
was completely voluntary. According
to Gordon, ‘‘He retired fully looking

 

 

forward to a wonderful retirement. I
think he had no idea of his problem.
Retiring was simply in the regular
course of events. This, I believe, is
the greatest tragedy.”’

Dr. Doyon is survived by his
wife, Marie-Therese of Lexington;
two daughters, Suzette Bernard of
Pensacola, Florida, and Denise Jared
of San Jose, California; and a son,
Leon Gerard Doyon.

The family has established the
Doyon Art Scholarship Fund which
will make it possible for artistically
talented children of modest means to
attend the FAIR summer program.

 

 

 

 

 

 

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

US HWY - 11 North

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

 

464-BOWL (2695)
7

>

~~

NEWS

 

1.U. searches for
‘stronger identity’

 

By Chris Bray
Staff Reporter

 

The Independent Union is search-
ang for a new, stronger identity on
the Washington and Lee campus, ac-
jcording to I.U. president Erica
iIngersoll.
| The organization’s immediate goal
tis to let independents know it exists,
ishe said.
| **We want W&L independents to
‘know we're around and what we
{have to offer,’’ said Ingersoll.
| According to Ingersoll, the I.U. is
\an organization for males and females
jof any year, who want to enjoy social
{functions yet avoid the structure and
commitment of Greek life. The LU.
‘also provides a means for indepen-
dents to pursue intramural sports and
jother interests,

} “If an independent comes to us
iwith an idea for an event or an activ-
lity, we encourage them to run with
jit,’’ said Ingersoll. ‘‘The IU. has
‘money to support most independent
‘interests.’
| The IU. has planned a wine and
{cheese reception for Parents’ Week-
jend and hopes to provide indepen-
{dents with social outlets during other
‘big W&L weekends, such as Fancy
Dress, according to Ingersoll.
Ingersoll said the I.U. is anticipat-

ing a role in the proposed new stu-
dent center. Associate Dean of Stu-
dents for Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Bud-
dy’’ Atkins, a member of the center
Planning Committee, independents
will take an important part in the
planning of the facility.

“In terms of planning, what the
student center will do for indepen-
dents is more important than what it
will offer the Greek organizations,
which in most cases already have
meeting places,’’ said Atkins.

The Planning Committee, which is
scheduled to begin meeting Nov. 1,
will seek input from the Inter-
fraternity and Panhellenic Councils as
well as the I.U., said Atkins.

“The facility will be for all mem-
bers of the W&L community,’’ said
Atkins. ‘‘The Planning Committee
will make sure everyone gets their
say.”’

Ingersoll said she looks forward to
the independents’ role in the plan-
ning.

“The Student Center could pro-
vide a much needed meeting place
for independents,”’ said Ingersoll.

Those who wish to learn more
about the Independent Union may
sign an interest sheet posted outside
Carol Caulkins office in the Universi-
ty Center or may call Erica Ingersoll
or Richard Spence.

 

Tax

from page 3

 

way.
We entreat all W&L Greeks to
consider carefully this Greek tax.
We encourage houses not receiving
university renovations, and sororities,
who do not even have houses yet, to
follow Chi Psi’s lead; this tax
certainly does not apply to you.

To houses that are accepting
university renovations, consider
carefully what you’re putting into the
Renaissance program and what you're
getting back. You might find that
multiplying $400 by the number of

by an indeterminate number of years,
alters the leaning of your figures.
And to Mr. Broomall, who says
he’ll revoke the charter of a house
that doesn’t comply: To our
knowledge, the University has not
granted a single charter to any
fraternity. Likewise, it is not
empowered to take them away. If you
end recognition of a chapter, its
nationals will very likely consider
revoking the charter, but any national
fraternity will want a reason why
recognition was terminated before it
takes any action. An unjustified

brothers. in. the house,.then. multiplied..,...Greek.tax won’t cut it as an answer.

Corgin Suits/Sport Coats

Ruff Hewn

Boston Trader
Sero/Gitman Shirts
B.D. Baggies

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

Prof. recovering
from heart attack

Washington and Lee Professor of German
B.S. Stephenson is recovering at home from a
mild heart attack and will resume teaching winter
term.
“His spirits are good, and he’s anxious to
get back into the classroom as soon as he can,”’
Dean of the College John Elrod said.

Stephenson was taken to Stonewall Jackson
Hospital on Oct. 9 and remained there eight
days, the first two in intensive care.

The university has hired Lore M. Amlinger,
who has taught German at the University of Vir-
ginia and Virginia Military Institute, to handle

 

Stephenson’s course load, said Associate Dean of
the College Laurent Boetsch.

Meredith to speak
at Contact lecture

Contact will present James Meredith as its
first speaker of the year. Meredith, the first black
person to enter the University of Mississippi,
will speak Wednesday in Lee Chapel at 8 p.m.

Meredith entered the U. of M. in 1962 amid
protests from much of the nation, including
Mississippi Gov. Ross Barnett. Meredith's en-
trance was seen as a critical point in the civil
rights movement.

Meredith currently works for controversial,
conservative Sen. Jesse Helms.

D.U.I. case
heard in court

A Washington and Lee student who drove his
car off the road injuring a fellow student pled
guilty in court Wednesday to charges of driving
under the influence of alcohol and failure to
wear a seatbelt.

Sophomore Brandon Green was fined $200
for the incident by District Court Judge Joseph
E. Hess.

Green drove his car off the road after a
country party in September. Passenger Elizabeth
Hancock was rushed to a Roanoke hospital by
helicopter. She was released several days later
and retumed to classes.

 

 

New I.D. card system is on the way

 

By Andrew Tucker
Staff Reporter

The University Card project is in full swing
and students will soon be able to use their cards to
make purchases at the Bookstore, the Co-op, the
Dining Hail and the GHQ.

The Business Office has recently expanded in
order to meet the operational needs of the
University Card system.

John Cuny, an assistant to the Treasurer, said
that he hopes students will be using their cards at

the new locations as early as December third.
Cuny also said that the ultimate objective of the
new system is to allow students the freedom of
only carrying their ID Cards when they are on
campus. The system is even capable of replacing
room keys with the student ID’s.

Cuny warns that these are long term goals and
that it will be several years before students enjoy
these freedoms.

The cards rely on two magnetic stripes for
operation. Scanners, similar to the ones currently
in operation in the copy machines, read the stripe
and deduct an amount from the cards account.

The Treasurer’s Office hopes that vendors will
pay to have these readers installed in their mach-
ines so that students will be able to buy Cokes and
one day wash their clothes with their University
Cards.

According to Cuny, the University has already
spent close to $100,000 on the new program.

The University is interested in the system
because of its flexibility and the luxuries it will
give to students. Students will be able to charge
their accounts home to their parents. In fact, Cuny
warned that ‘‘the biggest problem I see is the
capability of the students to abuse it.’’

Ariel changes format for next issue

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

Ariel, the Washington and Lee literary
magazine, has changed the process by which it
chooses student and faculty submissions in an
attempt to provide an unbiased opportunity for all
hopeful writers, according to Editor Joei Dyes.

Dyes said that last year’s Ariel had no real
guidelines for choosing submissions, and as a result
many talented writers were turned away.

“The only people represented in Ariel last year
were upperclassmen. This may have been a simple
coincidence, but it looked bad. Ariel is not the
New Yorker. It would be great if the magazine is
competitive, but it is a student. publication and all

he os Fs «

To

All

 

classes should be represented,’’ said Dyes.

Members of the Ariel staff have been divided
into several sub-staffs which include literary, art,
public relations, and layout. The literary and art
staffs who will decide on submissions have one
representative from each class and one from the
Law School.

After the Nov. 9 deadline, the members of
these two staffs will meet. At this meeting, literary
efforts will be divided into six stacks, and art
submissions will be divided into three stacks.
Each member will be given a stack to rate on a
scale of 1 to 5. The members will then rotate
their stacks until each member has read all
submissions. The scores will then be tallied.

““T hope by instituting this new system there
will be a level of input from all classes that will

limit bias. We want students to know their
submissions will be judged fairly,’’ said Dyes.

Another change for Ariel is the move from 20
pages to 40. Several people have expressed
skepticism over whether the magazine can fill 40
pages, but Dyes remains optimistic.

‘Some members of the Executive Committee
were reluctant to support the extra 20 pages, but
compared to other literary magazines, Ariel is
simply a pamphlet,’’ said Dyes.

People on this committee will push for a
greater number of submissions through flyers and
letters to the faculty.

Dyes also plans to award a $300 prize at the
end of the year to the best work.

“‘W&L stresses being the best of the best,”’
said Dyes. ‘‘Ariel should be no exception.”’

Brecken Ridge
Ruff Hewn Ladies
Lanz

Pendleton

Jayson Younger

Parents
Thank You For Your Support

In appreciation - we are offering

of
ALL SPORT COATS, BLAZERS AND SUITS

20% Off

LADIES SKIRTS
20% Off

The College Town Shop

111 West Nelson Street

 
NEWS

Convention
in planning
stages

By Kimberly Boots
Staff Reporter

 

 

In March of 1992, all the raucous
politicking and general chaos of a
national nominating convention will
descend not upon San Francisco or
Atlanta, but upon Lexington.

Mock Convention is a W&L
tradition which a student experiences
only once during his undergraduate
education and an event which attracts
national attention. Its purpose is to
accurately predict the presidential
nominee for the party which is cur-
rently out of office.

The 1992 Mock Democratic Con-
vention is already in the planning
stages. The Executive Committee
appointed the Mock Convention
Steering Committee last spring and
the committee is now preparing for
other students to get involved.

‘Eighty percent of the student
body will be involved in some facet’’
of the convention, said John Donald-
son, Administrative Chairman of the
1992 Mock Convention.

On Nov. 8 there will be two
orientation sessions for all interested
students, at 7 p.m. and again at 9
p-m., in room 203 of Reid Hall.
These sessions will include an over-
view of Mock Convention history
illustrated by a recently produced
videotape of past conventions.

Currently, the committee’s objec-
tives are to raise money, to fill the
various available positions and to
plan for the Spring Kickoff Week-
end, which will take place in late
April or early May of 1991. Con-
vention positions include approximate-
ly 15 Committee Chairmen, 55 State
Chairmen, delegates to each of the
states and people to work in areas
such as public relations, facilities,
accommodations and memorabilia.

The 1992 Mock Democratic Con-
vention has an 84-year-tradition of
authenticity to uphold. The first
Mock Convention, held in 1908 as a
class project, began the tradition of
accuracy when the students correctly
nominated William Jennings Bryan

;
)
y
P|

-

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

Demos want new district :

 

 

Students gather at the 1988 Mock Convention. File photo.

for the Democratic presidential candi-
date.

In keeping with that first victory,
14 predictions of 19 conventions have
been correct. Since 1948, the con-
vention has chosen incorrectly only
once out of ten times and has been
right in selecting Dwight D. Eisen-
hower, Adlai Stevenson, John F.
Kennedy, Barry Goldwater, Richard
Nixon, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan,
Walter Mondale and Michael Du-
kakis.

Over the years since the first
Mock Convention, the size and char-
acter of the event have changed.
Conventions were first held in Lee
Chapel, then in Doremus Gymnasium,
and now in W&L’s Warmer Center.

The first convention in 1908 was
a measure of students’ preference for
the presidential candidate. Today,
personal opinions are set aside and
the emphasis is put on mirroring the
actual states’ preferences.

As the convention has grown in
prestige, it has attracted distinguished
speakers. In 1960, Harry S. Truman
was the keynote speaker. Richard
Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Barry Gold-
water have spoken at Mock Conven-
tions. Many Mock Convention
speakers are also present at the actual
party conventions. Presidential candi-
date hopeful Jesse Jackson spoke at
the Spring Kickoff of the 1988 Mock
Convention. Atlanta Mayor Andrew
Young and Arkansas Governor Bill
Clinton spoke at the convention in
1988.

The national media has flocked to
Lexington for recent conventions,
including Time, Newsweek and The
Washington Post.

The regimented adherence to the
structure of the real nominating con-
ventions has been credited for the
Mock Convention’s record of suc-
cesses.

‘‘The idea is to try to emulate a
real convention as much as possible,”’
said Donaldson.

Mock Convention will be held in
March, before many of the state
primaries have been held. The state
delegates are apportioned according to
the number of voters in each state
from the party being emulated.
Those delegates do extensive research
to determine how their state will
vote. They often make last-minute
phone calls to party officials before
roll call begins at the Mock Conven-
tion.

Donaldson said that the research
for this convention will be facilitated
by sources of information which have
recently been made available, such as
a hotline which sums up political
events and trends daily.

The Spring Kickoff Weekend will
mark the beginning of the convention
year. A nationally recognized speak-
er will be present. Until then, and
after then, state delegates and chair-
men will be busily researching the
politics of their respective states in
the same manner which has made the
W&L Mock Convention such a suc-
cess in the past.

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

Democrats want to re-draw Vir-
ginia House of Delegate district lines
in Rockbridge County and Republi-
cans are crying ‘‘gerrymander.”’

The newly formed Committee for
Redistricting, made up of local Dem-
ocratic party members, asked Lexing-
ton City Council to endorse a plan
that would unite Rockbridge, Bath
and Allegheny Counties into a single
voting district.

“The fact is we’ve been divided.
With this plan we would be able to
speak as a solid county,’’ said
George Warren, vice-chairman of the
Lexington Democratic Committee,

Local Republican groups vehe-
mently oppose the plan.

“Tt appears (the Democrats) can-
not defeat (Republican) Delegate
Vance Wilkins fairly through an
election, so they want to defeat him
through an unfair gerrymander,’’ said
Lexington-Rockbridge Republican
Committee Chairman, and Washing-
ton and Lee Administration Professor,

Roger Dean.

Rockbridge County was split into
two districts by the Democrat-con-
trolled State Assembly after the 1980
census. Wilkins represents the south-
em half of Rockbridge County,
Lynchburg and a part of Bedford
County.

Northern Rockbridge County,
Lexington, Amherst and a portion of
Augusta County are represented by
independent Lacey Putney.

The House of Delegates will re-
draw districts next year after 1990
census results are in. Each new dis-
trict must contain approximately
61,000 people so Rockbridge County
must combine with other areas to
meet the quota.

Edward Henneman, chairman of
the Rockbridge County Democratic
Committee, said Rockbridge County
should be united with Bath and Alle-
gheny Counties because the three are
all mainly agricultural areas and have
the same types of people in them.

“‘We’re more related to these
counties than Bedford and Amherst
because we’re on the same side of
the Blue Ridge,’’ Henneman said. ‘‘If

you look at the shopping patterns and
the roads...you can see there is more

contact between Lexington and Clif- +
ton Forge than with Amherst.’’

Dean disagrees.

‘*The fact is, the Democrats want ,
to unite us with Covington and Clif-
ton Forge, two industrial cities that ‘
are Democratic strongholds,’’ said ,
Dean. ‘‘Lexington has nothing in
common with these cities. We have +
no industry; all our contact is with
Amherst and Lynchburg. :

“‘The Democrats couldn’t defeat ,
Wilkins after they carved up the
county in 1981. Now thay’re trying ‘
to gerrymander it back again to try to
defeat him,’’ Dean said.

Henneman said he thought the ,
chances of the Democrats’ proposal
being adopted by the House of Dele. +
gates were good.

‘‘Keep in mind, the re-districting '
will be done by the House of Dele- ,
gates, which is controlled by the
Democrats,’ he said. ‘‘I would hope *
this plan would produce a Democratic
delegate from our area, but it doesn’t ‘
gaurantee it.”’ ‘

.

'

Voters go to polls Tuesday

to defraud campaign contributors in connection with *

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

Virginia voters will go to the polls on Tuesday to
choose both a Senator and a Congressman.

Republican John W. Warner is seeking re-election to
the Senate, while Democrat James R. ‘“‘Jim’’ Olin is
running for re-election to the House of Representatives.

Both are facing only minimal opposition from inde-
pendent candidates aligned with controversial political

activist Lyndon LaRouche.

A 1949 Washington and Lee graduate, Warner has
been serving in the Senate since 1978, and has been
Virginia’s senior senator for eight years. Warner is the
ranking Republican on the Armed Services Committee and
a member of the Aging, Intelligence, Environment and

Public Works Committees.

The Senator postponed a Contact appearance at W&L
last month due to Congress’ problems passing a national
budget. He is scheduled to speak on campus during winter

term.

Wamer is being challenged by independent Nancy B.
Spannaus. She is a member of the executive committee of
the National Caucus of Labor Committees. Her husband
is currently in prison, having been convicted of conspiracy

 

 

LaRouche.

Congressman Olin is running for his fifth term as the '

representative of the 6th district of Virginia. Olin, a Dem- »

challenge comes fr
Berg.

Virginia voters

ocrat, does not face Republican opposition. His only

om Independent Gerald E. ‘‘Laser’ ‘
‘

Berg was a member of LaRouche’s presidential
campaign staff in 1988, and is now distributor of the New ’
Federalist newspaper. ‘

will also be asked to decide on four ‘

proposed state constitutional amendments.

The first would

be used to promote
The third woul

authorize lower tax rates on personal +

property belonging to persons over 65 years of age or to

those people permanently disabled with fixed incomes.
The second would allow proceeds from property »

forfeited to the Commonwealth due to drug violations to

'
law enforcement.

d authorize localities to issue bonds ¢

against tax revenues for transportation improvements
without county voter approval.

‘4

The last proposed amendment would allow the state

voter approval.

to issue transportation improvement bonds also without

Voters must register before election day as Virginia ,
state law prohibits same-day registration.

FASTFUNDRAISING PROGRAM...

§ 0
Just ; ‘ yore om prada
ONE .
WEEK.

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization.

GOING TO DALLAS

Need company to drive to Dallas. Leave Nov. 14th and
come back the 24th. 463-3236

Randal te te te te en es

rn CHORE EIXERC 7.

DA’ wonderul Welcome’to Lexington from...

| R.L. Hess & Bro.

>
7
(
¢
¢
¢
4
(
(4
4
¢

 

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal

 

PECL ELE PE CEE CEE EE EEL ERE EE EEE EECCA

fee.

ris

LPP OC RI LITRES

SL PSEE LEE PERM E ES

PPS OP TOOTS

POPE ETL OO

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

Plus a chance at $5000 more!

This program works!
No investment needed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

A large selection of Gift Items

WM. L. HESS, Jr.

 

121 S. Main St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NAF. ® and ™ trademarks of Century 21 Real Estate Corpor
Equal Housing Opportunity @

 

 

ation

Owner Lexington, VA 24450
i 3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666 Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50 (703) 463-2833
SE END) ES AMAR > RAD ) ARR 5 ERR) CNR) RD (ait ce <5 ees ( n
: BAKERY = }
aoe Bieta - Te
’ > =r PRM eee CENTURY 21" professionals ;
és nationwide help more peo-
_ Ask a ails ple find the perfect ole. t
° e = a : “4 than any other real estate
Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers Country “Ritchen T™ i youte tady buy » howe, ;
Robby Jones AN OLD FASHIONED BAKERY call a member of the team ‘
103/463-2022 EAT IN OR TAKE OUT that leads. ,
‘ 8 North Main St.
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St. Lexington, VA 24450 703-463-5691 eu ‘
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450 ' aammyy 4 &
I uegudududubedea nek FOGO REAL ESTATE .
8 Lexington
463-1801 4
sieeniienbeoeii stdin
Put your trust .
e in Number One.
DEAVERS A I LEY Op p a dQ © 1989 Century 21 Real Estate Corporation as trustee for the e

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

EACH OFFICE IS INDEPENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED,

 

 

 

§
4
rT P Typed *
ig i ia § and Accessories
FAX , 23 N. Main St. t
Lexington, VA 24450 (703)463-5988

©) 203 N. Main St.

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

 

Beads * Sequins * Pompons ¢ Bandannas ® T-Shirts ¢ Incense
Balloons ¢ Clay ¢ Flags ¢ Games ® Rockets ¢ Paint *Models
Stamps ¢ Trains ¢ Feathers ¢ Stencils * Velcro *Clothespins
Eyes ® Ribbons ® Styrofoam ¢ Adhesives ® Glitter ¢Chenille

 

Monday - Saturday
31S. Main St., Lexington

10 a.m. -5 p.m.
463-3355

 

 

 

 

 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

LEE i

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales

Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478 1-800-768-LEHI

If you haven’t been to
ROCKBRIDGE MUSIC

lately, come in and see what’s new

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

 

 

General Headquarters
(GHQ) !

PHONE : 463 - 1712

 

 

 

MOUNTAIN COPY-GRAPEICS
RESUMES

FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE, WE NOW ACCEPT
VISA/MASTER CARD

NEW SATURDAY HOURS!
125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA ¢ ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

9:00 AM TO NOON

FAX # : 463- 6918

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW
Fender Guitars
Fender Amps
Gibson Guitars

Epiphone Guitars
Mandolins, Banjos
Zildjian Cymbals
Martin Guitars

Also
Peavey P.A. Systems
Peavey Amps
Fiddles
Takamine
Ovatron
Strings, Books
Accessories

We give lessons...We do repairs
LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
205 N. MAIN 463-5455

11-5 Mon.-Thur.

11-7 Fri.

11-3 Sat.

Let us book a band for your next party

 

 

Sat. Evening Noy. 3rd
5:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.

Bring Your Parents

Declining Balance Is

 

Coming Soon

ww Ta

Will Be Open ‘

 

 

 

 
 

NEWS

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

 

Students to be given
spring term surveys

By Tracey Thornblade
_ Staff Reporter

 

Faculty advisors will distribute
spring term evaluation surveys to
students during registration next
week.

Spring Term Study Committee
members Kevin Green, professor of
accounting, and Roger Jeans, profes-
sor of history, said the committee
will use the survey results as part of

‘s? its four-part evaluation of spring

at

esa ——. ‘
1%

CFI LMI LMR RRR BDSM ES

term.
In addition to the student survey,
the committee will also evaluate a
faculty survey, data obtained from the
Registrar’s Office and information

obtained from other schools. It will

submit its final report to Dean of the

College John Elrod in February of
next year.

Green said the survey is structured
to avoid ‘‘opinion shopping’’ and will
concentrate instead on concrete data,
such as special academic opportunities
in which students participate during
the six-week term.

Jeans added that the committee
hopes to isolate those features of
spring term that are different from
the fall and winter terms and then
determine if students and faculty
utilize those features to their full
potential.

Beth Talkington, a student com-
mittee member, said this is the first
time the university has surveyed
students concerning spring term. She
said it is important for students to
complete the survey seriously or else

the committee will assume that they
do not care about. the issue.

Green said the committee will
consider student input more heavily if
a large number of surveys are re-
tumed. Nevertheless, he said the
survey results will comprise a large
part of the committee’s final report.

The committee will have to recon-
cile any large discrepancies between
student and faculty survey results, if
any exist, before submitting its report.
Its recommendation to Elrod will be
consistent with the evidence it com-
piles.

Committee Chairman H. Thomas
Williams said the committee has not
yet decided if it will release the
student survey results before submit-
ting its final report.

Rockbridge rape hotline

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

A rape crisis hotline has been
established by the Rockbridge Area
Coalition Against Sexual Assault to
help local residents in cases of sexual
abuse.

“On one hand, we wanted to
provide support services for assault
victims,’’ said W&L Professor of Art
Pamela Simpson, a member of the
administrative committee for the
newly-formed RACASA. ‘‘On the
other hand, we want to provide edu-
cational programming for the com-
munity because we think it is impor-
tant that old attitudes about rape and
sexual assault be changed.’’

To achieve these goals RACASA,
a satellite service of Staunton’s
People Against Rape, established a
rape hotline in June. By dialing 463-
RAPE, victims can _ speak to
RACASA volunteers who refer them
to the sheriff, hospital or to profes-
sional counselors. at People Against

Rape.
RACASA volunteers can also
serve as companions to victims as
they go through legal and medical
processes,

The hotline operates 24 hours a
day, and has an answering service
when calls cannot be directly an-
swered by volunteers. Simpson said
that they will soon have a beeper
service as well.

The problem, Simpson said, is
that the state requires 30 hours of
training in order to run a hotline to
provide support services. Though 14
RACASA members, including some
W&L Law and undergraduate stu-
dents, are currently in training, they
are unable to run the hotline as offi-
cial crisis counselors until mid-No-
vember.

Simpson explained that volunteers
now handle calls by reading a type of
script, first asking if the caller is in
immediate danger. Simpson said the
first step is to assess the situation.

She said that not every caller is
raped five minutes before. they. call. A

-alds victims of assault

victim could have been assaulted
months or years before, but for some
reason the crisis has arisen again.

According to figures, one rape
occurs in this country every six min-
utes. Twenty-two women were raped
last year in Rockbridge County alone.
And the number of actual rapes is
usually 10 percent higher than the
number of reported rapes.

According to Simpson, control is
a very important part of rape. Control
has been removed from victims vio-
lently. She said counselors must give
them back their control, in terms of
letting them make decisions from the
start.

: The hotline has had three calls in
its four months of operation. Simpson
said she is not discouraged because
“it’s going to take a while before
people know we're there.”’

: If anyone is interested in becom-
ing involved with RACASA, they can
call the hotline or Simpson and re-

quest a volunteer appl ication form:
ons oe Hes

ey

Bo
pee pee

 

 

 

ol \ oy CS

 

Tough loss

 

Senior All-American wide receiver Craig Irons kneels on the sideline after a heartbreaking loss
to Bridgewater College 28-7. The loss snapped a two-game winning streak for the Generals and
brought their record to 3-5. The Generals take on Guilford at home this Saturday. Staff photo

by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Welcome Parents

Aluin-Bennis stn The Leading
Men’s Clothing Store In Lexington

 

 

 

All Suits and Sport Coats 20%

 

 

 

SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts

IZOD, WOOLRICH, DEANS - Sweaters
Chamois Shirts

Long Sleeve Sport Shirts
Woolrich Outerwear
W&L Ties

Shoes by Bass, Topsier, Clark’s, Walkover
Herman Survivors
Corduroy Pants

Free Gift Wrapping

Aluin-Geunis

Since 1963

STUDENT
CHARGE ACCOUNTS

Cashmere Topcoats

Red Wing Boots

Wool Slacks

Duckhead Khaki’s

W&L Belts

After Six Tuxedos

Formal Shirts

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts

MASTER CARD

 

 

 

 
SPORTS
soccer falls just

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

 

By MacGregor Tisdale
Staff Reporter

 

In as dramatic an afternoon as
Liberty Hall Field has ever seen, the
Washington and Lee women’s soccer
team fell just a penalty kick short of
winning the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship.

On Saturday, third-seeded W&L
lost to top-seeded Roanoke, 2-1. The
game lasted nearly four hours with
three overtime periods and 12 penalty
kicks before the outcome was de-
cided.

Freshman midfielder Angie Car-
rington scored W&L’s lone goal in
the second half off a feed from class-
mate Corinda Hankins.

‘In Saturday’s game, we came
out of the woodwork and came of
age,"’ said head coach Janine Hath-
om. ‘‘We should have won that
game, no doubt, because we were the
better team on the field.

‘Their keeper won the game for
them, she made the key saves. Roa-
noke, for the most part, wasn’t even
close to the goal on their penalty
shots. Kate Stimeling did an in-
credible job in goal during the shoot-
out.’

‘‘We dominated the whole game
from the second half on,’’ goalkeeper

Kate Stimeling said. ‘‘I think we
deserved to win the game.”’

Freshman midfielder Karen Stutz-
mann agreed that the Generals dom-
inated play. ‘‘Our team put heart and
soul into it,’ she said. ‘‘We wanted
it like you wouldn't believe.”’

The Generals downed Randolph-
Macon for the second time this sea-
son, 4-1, in the semifinals. W&L
became the first team ever to prevent
the Yellow Jackets from reaching the
ODAC championship game.

Stutzmann scored one of the final
semifinal goal to give her a school
record tenth goal for the season.
Sophomore midfielder Ginny Dallam
and Hankins recorded unassisted
goals and sophomore Susan Moseley
scored off a Stutzmann assist.

Stimeling was just minutes away
from her record-breaking ninth shut-
out before R-MC scored on a penalty
kick in the final five minutes.

‘‘We just took it to them and
once we scored, there was no looking
back,’’ said Hathorn.

‘“‘The teams play in the tourna-
ment was one of the most inspiration-
al things I have been associated
with,’’ continued Hathorn. ‘‘The girls
represented the University and them-
selves in a magnificent kind of way
and should be proud of themselves.
This was seen through team play.”

    

= <3

et
r

Sophomore Susan Moseley winds up to shoot against Randolph-
Macon in the ODAC tournament semi-finals. Moseley’s shot found

Said junior midfielder Morgan
Warner, ‘‘We played great and had a
real strong showing. I think it was a
great team effort. We played with

 

 

*

%

Setting it up

 

 

 

 

 

| Sophomore Fran Ascher sets the ball in a match earlier this season in the Warner Center.
Ascher and the rest of her W&L teammates will look to set up an ODAC title this weekend.
\W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

intensity and enthusiasm.”’

The Generals ended the season
with a record of 11-6, 5-2 in the
ODAC. Playing at Liberty Hall Field,

Generals end season with

short in ODAC finals

b es at
: ton

 

the net, and the Generals beat R-MC 4-1 to move into the final

against Roanoke College. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

W&L was 8-2. Their was no question
that hosting the tournament was a big
advantage for W&L.

‘Our fans and supporters were

watching us and it meant a great
deal. Home field advantage was a
key for us in the ODAC tour-
nament,”’ said Hathorn.

another win over Keydets

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team ended its season in fa-
miliar fashion against a familiar op-
ponent.

For the ninth year in row, W&L
beat neighboring Virginia Military
Institute, 2-1, on Tuesday.

In the second half, VMI mounted
a brief rally, sparked by the support
of close to 1,000 noisy cadets who
lined the field dressed in_ battle
gray.

The Keydets made the score 2-1
on a header off a crossing pass.
Fortunately for the Generals, VMI
missed several opportunities to even
the score, and they escaped with a
narrow win.

Sophomore Mike McFarland, the
ODAC’s top scorer, again lifted the
Blue Marlins over the Generals by
recording two assists and scoring a
goal. McFarland scored the winning
goal at W&L on Homecoming Satur-
day in Virginia Wesleyan’s 2-1 over-
time win.

‘‘Saturday’s game had a disap-
pointing result,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘It
was the low point of the season,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

@ Nationwide is on your side

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN
Agent
203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

Welcome
Wé&L
Parents

We have at our
new location
flowers, balloons,
gifts and more..

WE WIRE ANYWHERE

Teleflora’
fe She

ae
weflerson
os forte tv The Homestead
Ten East Nelson
463-9841

 

 

 
 
    
 
      

See a a SR SR

i --Pat says--
j Aloha Mom i
i (

and Dad!

25 a GREE GR ER

FOR RENT

House in Country
463-5383

 

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual or
student organization needed to promote
Spring Break trip. Earn money, free
trips and valuable work experience.
CALL NOW!! Inter-Campus Program:
1-800-327-6013.

 

 

audiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
- ALL. COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

+ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- GAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
+ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

+ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

+ TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall

 

 

 

2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

David Hooker

Playing at VMI, just a few hun-
dred yards from the W&L campus,
the Generals seized a 2-0 lead by
halftime.

The first goal came when sopho-
more sweeper Greg Williams deliv-
ered a free kick from the left side
toward the right post. As the Keydet
defense watched the ball, sophomore
forward Reid Murphy hit a running
head shot into the net. The Generals
scored again when sophomore mid-
fielder Chase Davis scored from 18
yards out after he dribbled through
several VMI defenders at the top of
the penalty box.

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

 

fen

463-3106

 

 

Support “Two
For Turkey.”

Give $2 to support needy area famil-
ies on Thanksgiving. Look for dona-
tion table during Parents’ Weekend.

QWHTE FRONT) oo suns.

Sisteensisheatmsasioenineiineneedt
_
a

Welcome Parents!

Come by and open up a charge account for your student
this weekend. We carry a complete line of groceries and
fresh meats. We even offer carry-out deli. Student ac-
counts opened today will be good throughout this school
year. Have a great weekend!

Serving The W&L Community
For Over 35 Years

463-7969

Greg Williams

‘‘We played pretty well in the
first half,’’ said head coach Rolf
Piranian. ‘‘But we got rattled in the
second half when the corps came out.
We played with a lack of stability
and toughness, and we hung on just
well enough to survive.’’ :

Yet, in another sense, the ending
for the Generals was a bit different
from last season.

W&L, last year’s champions of
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence, was eliminated from this year’s
tournament by top-seeded Virginia
Wesleyan, 3-0, in Saturday’s semifi-
nals.

Reid Murphy

which was preceded b;’ one of our
better efforts.”’

That effort was W&L’s 2-1 over-
time win against Hampden-Sydney in
the ODAC quaterfinals, which gave
Piranian his 100th career coaching
victory.

The Generals, finishing the 1990
season at 7-8-2 (3-2-1 in the ODAC),
had four players named to the all-
conference team. Williams and Mur-
phy were picked for the first team,
while junior midfielder David Hooker
and sophomore midfielder Mike Mit-
chem were second-team selections.

 

PRIMITIVE
LEXINGTON PRINT
AND NOTE CARDS

 

depicts
historic

Stonewall

6x44",
envelopes.

 

This contemporary primitive print
by Virginia artist Page Huff Dillon
eighteen

buildings,
Virginia Military Institute, Wash-
ington and Lee University, and the
Jackson

color. Large print 28’’x24'4’" in-

cluding margins.
package of

 
 
 
 

of Lexington’s
including the

House. Full

Note cards,

ten with

 

 

16 WEST
LEXINGTON,

WASHINGTON: STREET
VIRGINIA

24450

 
 

+ By Jay Plotkin

 

Sports Editor

In recent history, whenever
Bridgewater and Washington and Lee
have teed the football up on a Satur-
day afternoon in October, things have
gone down to the wire.

In 1988, the Generals rallied in
the fourth quarter and scored with :32
left to pull out a 14-10 win on Jop-
son Field in Bridgewater. In 1989,
W&L again rallied in the fourth
quarter only to fall a two-point con-
version short of victory in Lexington.

So naturally, it would follow that
the 1990 match-up should provide
more of the same---another close
game decided in the final minute.

But the Bridgewater Eagles had
other plans. They came into the game
1-6 looking to tum their season
around with a win over W&L, which
had come into the game winners of
their last two.

The Eagles set the tone early.
After W&L stopped Bridgewater on
its first possession and forced a punt,
the Eagles’ defense went to work.

Steve Grabeel’s punt rolled out of
bounds at the W&L nine-yard line,
and two plays later, on third down
and six, All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference defensive lineman Mike

SPORTS
Bridgewater

   

Senior Mason Pope finds the running tough again

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

runnin

st Bridgewater. B

 

ridgewater proved to be too much

 

\for Pope and the Generals, prevailing 28-7. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Fitzmeyer sacked junior quarterback
Fred Renneker at the W&L two-yard
line.

Sophomore Bob Ehret’s punt from
the back of the end zone went out of
bounds at the W&L 20-yard line,
and three plays later, Mike Whittle

put the Eagles in front 7-0 with a 14-
yard scoring run.

After the touchdown, both defen-
ses kicked in, keeping the game at 7-
O until late in the first half. With
close to seven minutes remaining,
Bridgewater faced a third down and

 

Sophomore Scott Strader looks to pass the ball in a game against Richmond earlier this season.
Strader will lead W&L against Richmond again Saturday afternoon at 5 p.m. W&L photo by W. Patrick
Hinely.

 

Se

 

 

 

 

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 1 6 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY

 

LOW PRICES!

 

ae

ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 from its own 30-yard line.

Instead of passing the ball, the
Eagles ran an option play. Ronnie
Howard took the pitch, made a cut
and was knocked down 20-yards later
at midfield with an Eagles’ first
down.

rere

g too much for \v

“That was a big play,”’
W&L head coach Gary Fallor
we don’t let them get the first dc
on that play, we get the ball b
with good field position. Maybe v
score and maybe we don’t, bul we 5
into the locker room only down |
seven and not 14.”’

With a first down at midfield, B
ran the ball 11 straight times, con
verting a fourth-down and one alon;
the way, to the W&L four-yard lin
Quarterback Matt Puryear finished t
drive with a four-yard touchdown run
on a fake up the middle and a bo
leg around the left end with 36 sec
onds left in the half.

Said Fallon, ‘‘We’re down 14-0 at
this point, but we’re not out of
game. We just needed to come out in
the second half and make a big play
happen for us.”’

Instead of W&L making a big
play, it was Bridgewater. On the
fourth play of the second half, Mike
Redmon put W&L in a 21-0 hole
with a 57-yard touchdown run down
the middle of the field.

‘We just got out-coached on that
play,’ said Fallon. ‘‘We expected
them to do one thing, so we called a
defense to stop that. But they did
something else, and our players
weren’t in position to stop it.”’

W&L narrowed the gap at the

Lie

=

 

i h quarter after
d the lone Bridge-
day. Freshman
lia recovered a
d, giving the Gen-
iheld

ly hit senior split
gain of seven.
Pope then
10, 11 and seven
plays to get the
yard line, where
homore tight end

1 touchdown.
me at the 11:21
h quarter, leaving
time to mount a
revious years, but

igh.

alr

son

r the Generals defense stopped
ced a punt with
sack looked like it
much in the works. But
punt rolled out of bounds
he W&L two-yard line, and on
Renneker was inter-

ending the W&L threat.
scored once more for
margin of victory,
ng W&L's two game win streak.
On the day, the Eagles ran for 380
yards on 70 Both Redmon
and Howard went over the 100 yard

| Please see FOOTBALL page 11

1
> ne ny]
en nla
next play,

en

 

carries.

Polo wins two in Classic

 

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team hosted the W&L Fall
Classic last weekend, and the Gen-
erals delighted the faithful at Cy
Twombly Pool with a strong show-
ing.
W&L won twice before losing to
a Navy club that is ranked in the
East, 12-9. The Generals earned
victories over Lynchburg, 14-9, and
Johns Hopkins, 16-9, improving their
record to 12-8. The Generals also
defeated the Navy ‘‘B’’ squad in an
exhibition match.

“T feel we’re getting our second
wind and the setback of not having
our starting goalie is behind us,’’ said
head coach Page Remillard.

Remillard also said the team has

found the level of play that they had
at mid-season, when the Generals
were on an eight-game win streak.

That the Generals hung tough to
Navy’s ‘‘A’’ team before losing and
beating the Navy ‘‘B’’ team are
indications of how well the team is
playing, said Remillard.

The Generals may have found a
solution to the goalie problem they
sustained when sophomore P.J. Wai
cus sustained a season- ending eye
injury.

Sophomore Andrew Pearson con
tinued to play goalie in the deep end
of the pool, but Remillard used junior
Scott Bronstein in the shallow end
This allowed Pearson to concentrate
on playing in the deep end while
Bronstein handled things in the shal
low end.

Remillard said he has no plans of

changing that situation for this week

earl 2, terface th
oie ee

 

 

Tartar
Control

Gel Or Reg.

 

 

 

 

 

    
       

ie
+e
oa

eT wat” EB, .
»:
Or}

Gal. 3.29

 
  

vf >

 

 

roe

“ =a
PSF ere; “

Psex es L2sec saree

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, No

6 Pack - 16 Oz. NRB

Se

 

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesd: N mi

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities

None Sold To Deal

rest Pump
Toothpaste

}

 

 
 
   

: Ne

vembe!

end’s Southern Conference champion-
ships, held in Cy Twombly Pool.

The W&L season will reach its
most important point this Saturday
when the Generals face the Richmond
Spiders for the seventh time this
season.

[he two top teams that emerge
from the Southern Water Polo Con-
ference Championships usually
receive spots in the Eastern Cham-
pionships. Therefore, in this semi-
final match-up, the loser will not
participate in post-season play.

The other semi-final will pit At-
kansas-Little Rock versus. Dayton.
The championship match will be
played on Sunday morning at 11:00

am. followed by the consolation
match at 1:00 p.m
The match-ups for this weekend

_| Please see POLO page 11

a

9

 

 

 

 

 

——ng

 

sical Ro saree
 

SPORTS

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

Even though the Washington
and. Lee women’s soccer team
was narrowly edged out of first
place in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference tournament, the
Generals finished the 1990 season
with quite a few firsts.

By the end of October, W&L
had its first winning season, its
highest win total, its highest fin-
ish in the ODAC and its first
appearance in the ODAC title
game.

And the list goes on.

This month the Generals be-
came the first team ever to pre-
vent Randolph-Macon from reach-
ing the ODAC championship
game, they recorded their first hat
tricks and they had a player set a
record for goals in a season.

For their achievements, the
Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team has been named The
Ring-tum Phi’s Athletes-of-the-
Month for October.

Before the season began, head
coach Janine Hathorn said the
team had set a number of goals:
finish first or second in the
ODAC, outscore their opponents,
have a .500 record and beat Ran-
dolph-Macon.

“We played with our hearts
and we accomplished every goal
we set,’’ said freshman goaltender
Kate Stimeling. ‘‘It was just a
great season.’”

On Saturday, top-seeded Roa-
noke beat third-seeded W&L in
an ODAC championship game
decided after 12 penalty kicks,
which only says that Roanoke
was just a bit more successful in
making shots from 12 yards
away.

“The only difference between
us and Roanoke was that we
weren’t awarded a plaque,’ said
freshman midfielder Karen Stutz-
mann.

This season, W&L scored
twice as many goals as_ they
allowed, outscoring their op-

 

Generals shine in October

Women’s soccer team named Athletes-of-the-Month

 

The Ring-tum Phi,November 1, 1990

10

 

The Generals also beat Ran-
dolph-Macon twice in October,
and they finished the year with a
record of 11-6 (5-2 in the
ODAC).

Just three years ago, W&L
was 2-8-3 and last year the record
was 6-9-3. Why the sudden tum-
around? What made the difference
this year?

‘We learned how to believe
in ourselves and we became con-
fident that we could win,"’ said
Hathorn. ‘‘There were only two
occasions when we couldn’t pull
ourselves together this season (a
1-0 loss to Virginia Wesleyan and
1-0 overtime loss to Messiah),
and that’s incredible.”’

For the Generals, a mixture of
talent, depth and desire provided
the formula for success,

**We added skill in the places
we needed it and we also raised
our skill level a great deal,”’ said
Hathorn.

The arrival of a strong fresh-
man class, along with 19 letter
winners from last year’s team
gave the Generals depth at nearly
every position.

“To see the program building
during the past three seasons has
been great. But this year we had
talent to go along with our
desire,’’ said junior midfielder
Morgan Warner. ‘‘We had more
depth this year than ever, and that
made all the difference in the
world.’’

With only three seniors on the
team this year, W&L will retum
its entire defense and the heart of
its offensive attack next season.

‘‘We have a wonderful out-
look,’’ said Hathorn. ‘‘The chal-

 

lenge is not to have the typical

Freshman Karen Stutzmann is about to score a goal in Friday’s 4-

1 win over Randolph-Macon. Stutzmann was one of many stars on |

ponents, 32-16. Offensively, two
freshman scored 17 of the Gen-
erals goals. Stutzmann scored a
school-record ten goals and the
team’s first hat trick, while Corin-
da Hankins had seven goals and
the Generals’ second hat trick.
Yet, that only tells half of the

‘the women’s soccer team. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

story. At the other end of the
field, the W&L defense, anchored
by juniors Ashley Hurt and Nancy
Mitchell and Stimeling (who had
eight shutouts and made 138
saves), allowed only 0.89 goals

per game.

sophomoric season that could
follow a season such as this
one.”’

Stimeling made a loftier pre-
diction.

“Next year will be the year.
Definitely. No second place.”’

But next year is next year. For
now, the W&L women’s soccer
team can revel in the success of
the present.

 

Volleyball set to spike
ODAC tourney foes |

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
volleyball team finished their regular
season Tuesday night with an easy
win over St. Mary’s.

A non-conference loss to Shenan-
doah earlier in the evening did not
tamish a 6-3 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference record, good enough for
a third place conference finish and an
opportune ing in this weekend’s
ODAC tournament.

The Generals finished in a third-
place tie with Roanoke and Emory
and Henry. The seeding was chosen
through a lottery done by conference
call with the athletic directors of
schools involved.

The lottery placed W&L with
Sweet Briar and Easter Mennonite in
the first round this Friday night at
Harrisonburg. W&L needs only one
win to advance to the championship
semifinals. W&L defeated Sweet
Briar in three straight games earlier
this year.

“*We were really happy with our
seed,’ said senior co-captain Lisa
Jay.

The Generals spent their last week
before the tournament working on
serving and returning serve. Getting
the ball to their setter Jay, who was

Generals set

named to the All-ODAC team last
year, will be a critical factor to their
tournament success. Jay leads the
team with 424 assists.

Junior co-captain Mena McGowin
and sophomore Leslie Hess will pro-
vide the solid hitting up front while
junior Marcy Brown can concentrat¢
on the weakside attack.

Defensively, head coach Susan
Dittman stressed blocking fundamen-
tals, a facet of the Generals’ game
which improved this week against St.
Mary’s and Shenandoah. The block-
ing must peak during the tournament,
she said.

With plenty of rest and no in-
juries, Dittman expects her team to
reach the title game. The Generals
are hoping to avenge ODAC seasori
losses to Eastern Mennonite and
Emory and Henry, while tourmey
favorite Bridgewater remains the team
to beat.

For seniors Jay and Connie Papa-
zickos, original members of a squad
that has risen to championship caliber
in four short years, this weekend is
the chance to bring a championship
banner home to the Warmer Center. '

‘We're looking to end the
with a win,’’ said McGowin. ‘‘We
feel real confident that we can win
the tournament, it’s just a matter of
going out and doing it.’

'

to explode |

in cross country meet

 

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams
head into this weekend’s Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference champion-
ships in fine form after strong perfor-
mances at home this past Saturday.

The W&L women defeated Eas-
tern Mennonite for the second time
this year. The Generals had three
Tunners in the top five spots to win
27-30. Sophomore Susie Wootton
won her second straight race, finish-
ing in 23:11.

“It was a real nailbiter on Satur-

day,’’ said head coach Jim Phemister;
“We'll have to run well to win
ODACs, but we’ve shown we can ”
that.””

The Generals, 5-0 in the ODAC
(8-1 overall), will go into Saturday's
ODAC championships as the favorita

Said junior Jodi Herring, ‘‘We’re
going into the championships with 4
positive attitude. We’ve got some
people injured, but everybody is
working hard and we're ready to »
fast.”’

On the men’s side, junior Charles
Edwards led a trio of top finishers as

the Generals topped Hampden-Sydney

 

 

Q) Please see ODAC page 11

 

 

  
     
    
 

 
   
   
   
   

  

The Beauty Bar AUDITIONS POSTPONED

159 S. MAIN ST. Welcome Parents
463-2886 You Deserve to be in Paradise! “THE SKIN OF OUR TEETH"

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

Jewelry ¢ Books * Tapes
Crystals ¢ Calenda’ tuffed An
HAIR CUTTING  Culie<Caime tae NOVEMBER 8 & 9, 3 & 7 PM
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT 16North Main St./Lexington, VA EXPERIMENTAL THEATRE, LENFEST CENTER
703-464-1800

 

_—

 

. ¢ Redken & Paul Mitchel ¢ Seba. sti

nex eer.
r. George’ sf

( Hairstylist

 
 

 

       
    
       

36 Varner Lane j
463-3975 R.E. Lee Memorial Church !
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5 (Episcopal)
Welcomes W&L Parents & Students

Sunday, Nov. 4 (All Saint’s Sunday) q

Holy Eucharist, 8:30 a.m. |

10:30 a.m.; Holy Eucharist, Rite II,
with special music sung by the American Boychoir

STUDENTS/FACULTYS® 9h ccc
L

ARIEL NEEDS YOU!

 

The Lexington Connection

The staff of TLC-TRAVEL welcomes the parents of the
W&L. students for a great weekend together.

If you require information about travel, our professional
agents will be glad to assist you free of charge.

 

We are now putting together the fall issue of Ariel,
the W&L Student literary magazine, and need your:

    
 
  

 

    
 
     
   
 
    
   
   
 
 

 

-Poems
-Short Stories FREE SERVICES FREE BENEFITS
‘Photography Complete Info and ¢ Prompt Courteous and
Art (Paintings, drawings, etc.) Resoveations For: Professional Service
-Non-Fiction writing @ Airlines © $100,000.00 Flight Insurance |
© Amtrak & Eurail ¢ ALL Major Credit Cards
* Hotels Accepted \
© Cars ° Ticket Delivery /
@ Cruises * Billings to Companies &
¢ Tours Schools ‘

 

 

 

 

 

  

$300 In Cash Prizes
Will Be Awarded For

The Best Submissions

Of The Year!

Starry, S Starry Holiday Nights _

Classic black velvet studded with illuminating jewels

Convenient 2-Hour Free Parking with
Easy Access to our Back Door Entrance

HOURS:
Mon.-Fri. 9 a.m.-5:30 p.m.

16 W. Washington Street Saturday 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.

Please turn in your submissions to Carol Caulkins in the Uni-
Lexington, Va. 24450

versity Center by 4 p.m. on November 9.

aravans

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-3500
Open Monday thru Saturday 10 AM - 7 PM/Sunday Noon - 6 PM

    
 

 

 

703-463-2197

 

 

 

 
*

SPORTS

POLO

* from page 8

 

were. determined two weeks ago at
the seeding tournament. The Gen-
erals are seeded third and Richmond
earned the second seed. The Gen-
erals lost that weekend to both Rich-
mond and top-seeded UA-LR. Day-

ton is seeded fourth. The Generals’
tangle with Richmond Saturday even-
ing at 5:00 p.m. will be the rubber
match for the two teams this season.
Each has won thrice, one each in
Overtime, and each team has scored
66 goals in the six meetings.
Remillard said that the Generals
have made a few changes in their
game plan and the team is adjusting
and playing well right now.The Gen-

‘ erals will try to take advantage of the

+
‘
'
“"
4
r
va
un
vo
2vit
oF
»
Og!
ois
‘

 

ODAC

from page 10

 

17-54. Sophomore Bo Hannah and
junior Lee Parker finished second and
third for W&L.

 

   

 

 

Lee Parker

“Twelve of our 14 runners ran
personal records,’’ said head coach
John Tucker. ‘‘We are coming along

nicely as we get ready for the ODAC
championships. Next week should be

 

_ interesting.’’

The men finished the year with
their best record since 1986, and they

‘ will head to Lynchburg for the

ODAC meet as the only team with a
chance to unseat Lynchburg as the
ODAC champion.

Said senior co-captain Kennon
Walthall, ‘‘It’s like the calm before
the storm. We’re getting psyched up
for Saturday to go off and unleash
ourselves on the course. All eight
guys need to run the race of their life
if we are going to win.”’

  

   
 
 

fact that they have faced Richmond
so often by making changes to disad-
vantage the Spiders.

The last time the two teams met
in Twombly Pool, W&L ran away
with a six-goal win, but Remillard is
expecting nothing of the sort on
Saturday.

Both Remillard and the players
said that fan support is critical and
hope that fans will bring their parents
to the game, which they say will
probably last a little over one hour,
before heading out to dinner.

‘‘We can’t emphasize enough the
home field advantage,’’ Remillard
said. ‘‘We plan on playing at 11:00
on Sunday.”’

The Ring-tum Phi,

FOOTBALL

from page 8

November 1, 1990

 

mark.

‘‘We had our defenders where
they were supposed to be,’’ said
Fallon. ‘‘They just couldn’t get away
from the Bridgewater blockers.’’

W&L’s defense was again led by
its linebackers. Sophomore Lyle
Smith was in on 18 tackles, while

junior Trey Cox chipped in 15.

The Generals, 3-5, will take on
Guilford this Saturday on Wilson
Field. Guilford, which is not eligible
for the ODAC title this year, has

defeated everyone in the ODAC
except W&L.

“Guilford is a good football team
that’s beaten everyone in our
league,’’ said Fallon. ‘‘They have an
outstanding quarterback and good
receivers, We will have to prepare
well and get the loss out of our
minds,”’

”

Kickoff for the Parents’ Weekend
clash is set for 1:30 p.m.

 

Not so fast

Leiphart.

 

 

Senior Clark Wight (20) pulls down a Bridgewater running back from behind as sophomore
Donald Dempsey (42) closes in. Bridgewater topped W&L 28-7 last Saturday. Staff photo by Chris

 

 

Ve, Y? ak
ae

 

er
Soccer reams teams and

fans with stupid system

SS EALERTS SCRE EL
By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Call me crazy, but didn’t the finish to last Saturday's Old Dominion
Athletic Conference women’s soccer game strike you as being anti-
climactic?

Roanoke, ranked 19th in the nation led 1-0 until freshman Angie
Carrington tied the game for Washington and Lee. Things stayed tied
after 90 minutes of regulation play. Things were still tied after two 15-
minute overtime periods. And things were still tied after two 15-minute
sudden death overtime periods.

A fairly tight match, wouldn’t you say? Let them play it out, you say?
Soccer says nope, though. It’s not just the ODAC. It’s not the NCAA.
It’s FIFA, the governing body of international soccer.

If you remember anything about the World Cup, you remember that the
World Cup is the most watched sporting event in the world. So you
might think that FIFA could come up with a decent way to break ties.

Here’s how things work now. A regulation game is 90 minutes long.
In case of a tie, teams play two 15-minute overtime periods. If the game
is still tied after the two periods, then teams play two 15-minute sudden
death periods. (Obviously, if a team scores in the first sudden death.
period, the game ends.)

Throughout the World Cup, questions were raised about replacing the
shoot-out. A shoot-out consists five penalty kicks by each team. The team
who converts the most 12-yard kicks is awarded the tie-breaking goal and
the win. Obviously, after 150 hard-fought minutes of soccer, to decide the
game on penalty kicks is anti-climactic. The shoot-out is also not
indicative of the ability of the teams.

Said W&L head women’s soccer coach Jan Hathorn, ‘‘The shoot-out
has always been a problem because it is not a true indication of the
game — it is an indication of the goalies. Not to take anything away
from goalies, but the shoot-out is an aberration of the game and its is
unfair.’’

Hathom is a member of the NCAA Division III South Regional
Advisory Committee. She said that, under the current system, it is
possible for teams with strong goalies to coast through the overtime
periods to get to the shoot-out.

To do that is to make a mockery of soccer. One alternative is to
simply do away with the shoot-out and play until there is a winner, as
they do in other sports.

From a fans point of view, seeing the game won on penalty kicks
didn’t provide a true winner.

Said senior Craig Hatfield, who played goalie at Fallston High in
Maryland, ‘‘The game needs to be won on the field, not in the goalie
box. It doesn’t prove who is the better team to win on penalty kicks.
That’s a one-dimensional part of the game.”’

Hathom suggested that in place of the shoot-out, let the teams play it
out, but shorten the overtime periods from 15 minutes to seven and a
half. ‘‘That keeps the pressure on the players and decides the game on
the field, where it should be decided,’’ she said.

Hatfield said the game should have been called a tie after the overtime
periods and the teams should have played again a day later.

“‘Why not just play it over?’’ he said. ‘‘The teams would be rested.
Shoot-outs weren’t used in the regular season, why should they be used
in the playoffs. Just play again the day after. I think the girls would have
wanted it that way.’’

Hathorn has a point. It is unreasonable to ask players to play for four
hours — if that’s how long it takes. Cut the length of the overtimes in
half and play until someone scores. Everybody will be happy.

After all, a true winner will be decided that way — not just the players,
but the game itself.

 

 

    
       
   
 
 
  

 

 

‘
6.
&. : i
; gi
4 ry
iY : 2
W i
Hi gz 15 - Day Notice (¢. cisemeniesee
La) ) a
a) : *
i: (SK rnenerloneenn
Lye f
: te CTR aarti
: ower” |
‘ « yons
Trying to stretch dollars when you're MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks, which means
computer shopping doesn’t mean you're willing eae you can share information with someone who uses a
a to make sacrifices. different type of computer.

=

Vere ere erreur ee

That's why you should consider the new,
affordable Macintosh® Classic® computer.

It has everything you need— including a monitor, keyboard, mouse,

2 megabytes of RAM, and a 40-megabyte hard disk. Just plug everything in and
the Macintosh Classic is ready to run, because the system software is alreacly
installed’ And, thanks to the Macintosh computer's legendary ease of use, you'll
be up and running in no time.

Like every Macintosh, the Classic can run thousands of available applications
that all work in the same, consistent way-—so once you've learned one program,
you're well on your way to learning them all. And this is one cheap roommate
that doesn’t have trouble sharing. The Apple® SuperDrive" —standard
equipment with every Macintosh—reads from and writes to Macintosh,

Apple introduces the Macintosh Classic.

 

See the Macintosh Classic for yourself. It'll change your mind
about cheap roommates.

Roacnea noni nyc a
Tucker Hall Room 215A.

and ask for Mac McCloud
MOI eneee!

©

 

  
 

 
 
 
 

      

* Macintosh Classic computers purchased before January 1991 include system software on floppy disks; software is not installed
990 Apple ¢ ¥, Ine. Apple, the Apple logo. ar mtosh are registered trademarks of Ap ve ary
power to be y are trademarks of Appie © c. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple c nc MS | | - ws
} ‘ rt m \e
reg! ark of Microsoft Corporation $ a registered trademark of International Business Machines | : pr ywer tO DE VOU! | eS

 
 

 

W&LIFE

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi,November 1, 1990

12

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

  

 
  
 

      
        

 

   

   

 

 

   

 

    
 
 
    
   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

  
    
       
  
 
         
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

 

 

   
     

 

Es
lime to clean your room | WEEKLY CALENDAR
I've smelled rotting carcass before and this is fathers acquire these vital lecture skills, but they
THE SB AR SIDE much worse. I wonder if the Lexington Volunteer all have it. The most popular fatherly topic is the
B S Fire Department would mind coming over to wash _ infamous *tyou don’t know how easy you have Parents’ Weekend.
y Jon bar = my room with one of those high-powered fire —_jt’’ lecture, reflectively given by any father whe |] ay Day University Library Book Sale. Main Lobby (through Nov. 7).
— : we yor : hears his son or daughter complaining abou |} Noon Brown bag lunch with Barbara Weinberg for interested stude:
_ Once again it’s Parents’ Weekend. A time of I wish I had time to clean out my room before something frivolous like the fact that the family W&L Alumni House.
Joyous reunions, university festivities and SS SS Unfortunately, I will be franti- does not have cable television. 4p.m. MATH COLLOQUIUM: "Cross Stitching, Graph Theory, and a
as students endeavor to convince their parents that Cally occupied looking for bank statements and Here’s my Dad's version of this lecture recited Least Path Problem,” Barbara Flajnik, Wittenberg Universi
they have been studying diligently, sleeping regu- withdrawal sheets in an effort to balance my verbatim because I have heard it on so many Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3:30 in Room 2.
larly, eating right, attending class and wearing checkbook, thereby avoiding the wrath of my occasions I could not help memorizing it. Lecture Public invited : :
clean clothes. In other words, students try to create mother. She seems to have grown weary of my no. 17 (You don’t know how easy you have it): 5 5
; ; : Sirtpaees : a ; ie : ‘ : .m. Y SEMINAR: \ : . Fert
the general impression that they are living like kamikaze worry when it bounces dismal antics You think you have it tough. When | was a kid I — . ee a 4 ober idle colby on
orc human eee not some nocturnal and ae informed me that if I don’t balance had to walk eight miles through snow barefoot 402 Public eal d ' ;
beast who survives on frozen yogurt, nachos and = my ¢ book this year she will donate my vital every morning just to get to school. My family was as , :
beer, changes his sheets twice a semester and lives organs to science. so poor that we didn't even have a stove. The only 8 p.m. Te ae ee W&L Choral Ensembles.
in a house that was recently declared unfit and You know, every year I discuss Parent’s time we could have grilled cheese sandwiches was a ret a aed i i
unsafe for human habitation. Weekend from the student’s perspective and depict in summer when the sun was hot enough to melt AWA HLETICS: VOLLEYBALL: ODAC Tournament.
Looking at my room, I can see that getting my parents, who are genuinely nice people, un- the cheese onto the bread. And the only reasons we
ready for Parent’s Weekend is not going to be an __ fairly. Maybe it’s time I presented the other side had the cheese was because Dad worked nights as .
easy task. My carpet (which I cannot see) is of the issue. How do you think your parent’s feel? a spittoon cleaner at the grocery store and they Parents' Weekend. : i
covered with dirty, mildewed clothing, old beer They cared for you in your infancy, tolerated you used to give him the moldy cheese free. Course, we || All Day WATER POLO: Southern Conference Championships.
cans, greasy pizza boxes, black banana peels and in high school and worked all those years so that didn’t mind the mold on the cheese because by the Twombly Pool. :
dead crickets. An unidentified strain of bacteria is they could send you to college and when they time we chomped through the bacteria on the 1:30 p.m. | FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Guilford College. Wilson Field.
growing on one of the walls and the ceiling is visit on Parent’s Weckend all you want to do is bread we hardly noticed it. Everyday after school 8 p.m. PARENTS' WEEKEND CONCERT: University-Rockbridge
completely covered with thick spider webs. My drop them off early at their hotel so you don’t and on the weekends me and my brothers worked Symphony Orchestra with Florentino Dias, guest conductor
desk is lined with cups filled with fermenting miss out on any parties. Talk about ingratitude! in the coal minds. To this day I still cough coal Lee Chapel. Public invited.
liquids and fungus. My room looks bad but what How do you think my parents feel after spending dust. Our house didn't have hot water or plumbin, AWAY ATHLETICS: CROSS COUNTRY (M&W): ODAC
: : " pe P 8
I’m really worried about is the stench. I don’t ll that time and effort raising a child only to and Mom was always sick. Championships.
know what it is or where it’s coming from but have him go off to college to write smart alecky I can’t wait until I have kids to lecture. I'll tell
something in my room smells terrible. Perhaps humor columns about the family. them how tough it was for me working my way
some rodent indigenous to Virginia snuck into my Actually, most students do know how their through college as a chimney sweeper. In the |All Day WATER POLO: Southern Conference Championships.
room and died and what I’m smelling now is a parents feel. For years they’ve been hearing meantime I think I will get back to balancing my Twombly Pool.
rotting carcass. fatherly lectures that began shortly after the cutting checkbook. I hope you have an enjoyable Parent’s |/3 p.m. CONCERT GUILD: American Boychoir. Lee Chapel. Public '
On second thought, it must be something else. of the umbilical cord. I’m not really sure when Weekend. invited. ‘
3
Choir and conductor to perform snag |
Registration for Winter Term 1991 begins. ‘
e hy p 3 W k 4:30 p.m. FACULTY MEETING: Northen Auditorium, University Library.
in Lee Chapel Parents’ Weekend ovrusen
The choir is composed of stu- of music at Saint Bartholomew's from Rio de Janeiro Federal Universi- 1 p.m. EAST ASIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "World View of New —
From the W&L News Office dents from the American Boychoir Church in New York. He has con- ty and a graduate degree in conduct- Religions in Japan,” Paul Groner, professorof Buddhist
School, North America’s only nonsec- ducted opera and major works for jing from Washington University Studies, University of Virginia. Northen Auditorium,
The American Boychoir will par- ‘tian boarding choir school, located chorus and orchestra, made several Pieces to be performed in Satur- University Library. Public invited. : sa
ticipate in a Sesquicentennial celebra- in Princeton, N.J. Sixty-five boys, recordings, is the editor of two books day’s concert are Symphony No. 4 ||1-5p.m. © CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Blue Ridge
P esqu: ; os ee Ri
tion in Lee Chapel and guest conduc- aged nine to 14, from 21 states and and four collections of liturgical (Italian) by Felix Mendelssohn, Sym- Pre-Law. University Center.
tor Florentino Dias will lead the from Canada, attend the school for a music, and has published more than phony No. 25, K. 183 by Mozart, Last date to register for Dec. 8 GRE exam. CD&P Office.
University-Rockbridge | Symphony full scholastic program including in- 50 articles in various professional and Preludio from  Bachianas ||4:30p.m. LECTURE: "Vaclav Havel: The Moral Conscience of
Orchestra in their first performance of depth music training. _ journals. Brasileiras No. 4 by Brazilian com- International Politics?” James W. Sire, author, senior editor,
the season this Saturday. The Boychoir has sung with major Litton has presented seminars and poser Heitor Villa-Lobos. InterVarsity Press. Northen Auditorium, University Library.
The aftemoon program will in- orchestras under the direction of workshops at colleges and universities The University-Rockbridge Sym- Public invited.
clude Renaissance motets, and con- Maestros Toscanini, Ormandy, throughout the U.S. and in Europe, phony Orchestra is composed of ||7-11p.m. CHESS CLUB: Basement Gameroom. Public invited.
temporary pieces. Other selections to Bemstein, Mehta, Munch, Leinsdorf, Africa, and Asia. He is a graduate of Washington and Lee students and ||7:30p.m. | CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP LECTURE: “Why Should Anyone
be performed are Japanese, Korean, Previn, Wolff, Williams, Levine, and Westminster Choir College with a local area musicians and is sponsored Believe Anthing At All?” James W. Sire. Lee Chapel. Public
and American folk songs, and a com- DeCormier. The choir has made over bachelor’s and master’s degree in by W&L and Fine Arts in invited.
missioned piece, ‘‘Angels Are Every- 40 recordings and has appeared on music, and has done additional study Rockbridge. F.A.I.R. is sponsored in
where,"’ by Daniel Pinkham. The national television and performed in at Canterbury Cathedral in England. part by the Virginia Commission for
program will conclude with a ‘‘Med- concert halls across the country. Dias is founder and music direc- the Arts. 5 p.m. BIOLOGY LECTURE: "Does Water Stress in Plants Cause
ley of Favorite Songs” by Stephen __ The choir is conducted by James tor of the Orquestra Filharmonica de For more information, or assis- Insect Outbreaks?” Edward F. Conner, University of Virginia
Foster and ‘‘Stars and Stripes Forev- Litton, one of American's best known Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He holds a tance for the handicapped, call Room 305, Parmly Hall. Refreshments at 4:30.’
er” by John Phillip Sousa. choral conductors. He is also director degree in clarinet and conducting F.A.LR. at (703) 463-1881.
D0) DD 0D 0D 0D) DD) 0D) DO) OED 0 ’ ; A ° e >
rtists in Cahdots
2 —, }) HERE’S WHAT’S NEW IN LEXINGTON Artists in —anoot
one ar LEX Vg Wicker, Clothing oe Handcrafted ver and
NF NF. ° Jewelry, Pottery, Lamps ant, ty oe
Q\\ v Dx Dx % Rugs, Cookware eat ei patina
cS ! = Candlesticks, as | nape,
Antiques, Glassware, ta
~y : ‘ ' renee 2 —_ {
i! Gifts Etc., Etc., Etc. vi fi ee
A Special Place 6 E. Nelson Street Open ioam-64-m. Montes.
4 N Visa & Master Card accepted
. ’ . . . .
Lexington's First Condominium Community
Come See Where
(some of)
Your Money Goes!
We’re Open 10-4
This Saturday
W&L Bookstore
WE'RE BAAACK!! || ,, Dissppointea
FOR SALE * By Selection & Price
CLEAtNG@ TON
One and Two Bedrooms
Reserve Your Condominium Today _
For Next Year UNIVERSITY
ali a SPORTWEAR
Only A Limited Number Available ame
On A First Come Basis
Directions: West on Nelson Street (Route 60), left on Borden Road, one block on right. NO VE; MBE. R SIGN— UP cere ee has -
Three blocks from Washington and Lee. best selection of . imprinte
SPECIAL T-shirts, sweatshirts, em-
broidered fitted baseball caps
JOIN FOR 1 YEAR and much more.
>
#4 G FIRST MONTH FREE *** |
'R ACK! W E R | We Are Opening
4 6 4 4 FIT Student Accounts!
a , wesee : ‘ = COUPON—PRESENT THIS AD FOR '
107 EAST WASHINGTON STREET ¢ P.O. BOX 723 © LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
4-463-7319 16 E. NELSON ST. FREE WORKOUT 15 W. Washington St.
703-4653: LEXINGTON VA. UMIT 1 PER PERSON 000 THRU 11/30/80 (Next to Lloyd's)
464-3000
\. : SINR ESE EEE

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

A >) 0) ED) AD ND) DD) ED 0) ED ED 0D) DD 0D) AD 0D 0) ND 0) AD) AD () ND) ED 0) ED () AD) ED () AD () ED () ED () ED () SD () RED () EDL) REED

 
