MIIIIETBHII

 

MEN ’s, WOMEN ’s Hoops
SUFFER Lossss

Washington and Lee University
vowmrz 100, NUMBER 13

PAGE 3

 

No ONE WANTS TO ADMITIT....
BUT IT EXISTS AND IT IS A

PROBLEM:Ca mp us

BAP

PAGES 4-5 ‘

 

 

JAME°
'VASHlN§j%N

might hit
Clinton below
the belt.

Movi e Revi ew
by Al ex
Chris tensen

 

LAST WOR

PAGE 8

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7

FEBRUARY 2, 1998

r Lab swiping?

BY HEATHER MCDONALD

I computer labs, student computing

‘ that users swipe their university

‘i still subject to approval, would not

‘ ginning of the winter term.

it van Assendelft said.

BARING" IT FOR THE BROTHERS...

Phi Delta Theta pledges show their support for sophomore Phi Delts

Matt Jackson and Brian Ricketts, who playedlflzorlthe Generals in
Wednesday night ’s basketball game against Hampton-Sydney.
Horusmz Horzsr/Pnoro EDITOR

 EWS EDITOR
Following recent thefts from

is asking for card readers to be in-
stalled on the doors of campus com-
puter labs.

Memory has been stolen out of
three computers, and an Ethernet
card was taken from another. An
entire Macintosh computer was
stolen from a lab last summer.

The card readers would require

card to get into the computer labs,
much like getting into a dormitory
or residence hall. The plan, which is

be budgeted for the next academic
year, but the 1999-2000 academic
year.

“The library is open 24 hours a
day, and people canjust walk in and
take out memory or a machine,” said
Dirk van Assendelft, Student Com-
puting Coordinator.

However, the card system would
further restrict public access to
W&L’s computer labs. The guest
account was discontinued at the be-

“At the end of the fall term, the
guest account was being abused by
area high school students. The li-
brary staff asked us to disable [it],”

Plan seeks to solve issues

BY KATHIE SOROKA

This would mean lesser administration ofﬁces could
STAFF WRITER

Anyone with six million dollars to spare and a plan to

solve Washington and Lee’s parking problem, please see
/Vice President of Finance Lawrence Broomall.

A public forum met Thursday to discuss W&L’s “Mas-
ter Plan,” which includes a six million dollar parking ga-
rage. The Master Plan is a ﬁve-year, long-terrn, “big pic-
ture” construction plan targeting problems and adding new

features to campus.

Other features of the plan include sorority housing, a
university commons, improvements to the athletic ﬁelds
and a music and arts building. Joel Spaeth, of the Hillier
Group of Princeton, N.J., presented the plan at the forum.
Frank Parsons, W&L Facilities Planning Coordinator, and

Broomall also attended. '

“Parking, parking, parking. Every campus we look at,

parking is a problem,” Spaeth said.

In accordance with Board of Trustee wishes, the ﬁrst
priority of the plan is sorority housing.

However, at the forum, town residents and students as
well as Spaeth, Parsons, and Broomall expressed desires
for a parking garage to be constructed simultaneously.

The problem is funding. Funding will be raised through
traditional methods, however, with no plan to raise tuition

to cover expenses.

Since W&L’s enrollment is ﬁxed, there is expected
growth, the plan focuses on making better use of existing
facilities. For example, according to Spaeth, the DuPont
Building does not adequately support either music or art
programs. A new music and arts building would be at-
tached to the wall of the Warren Center, leaving DuPont

free. .

be moved out of Washington Hall and replaced with
academic rooms. The President’s office would remain in
Washington Hall.

Another possible location for administration ofﬁces
would be the new University Commons. Spaeth said
the commons would be the social hub of the campus. It
would be located behind the Commerce School, replac-
ing the parking lots and built into the like the library and
science buildings.

The Co-op, bookstore, GHQ, club offices, and recre-
ational areas would be housed there. One advantage to
movinithe Co-Op and bookstore there would be an
end to e traffic hazard and noise disturbance created
by morning delivery trucks backin g into the alley next
to Graham-Lees Dormitory.

Yet, because the commons eliminates parking lots,
Spaeth said, “We cannot build the University Commons
without the parking garage.”

The four-level parking garage, which will accommo-
date about 440 cars, is currently planned for the area
behind Doremus Gymnasium.

The ﬁve sorority houses will be built in the area up-
stream of Woods Creek Apartments, with room for one
more. They would be similar to fraternity houses and
would each house about 20 women.

“They’ll be ready August 2000,” Broomall said.

The Board of Trustees will take a look at the Master
Plan on Feb. 13 and 14.

Spaeth stressed that current plans are just “con-
cepts” and that some changes in location and detail are
still possible.

Wu takes stand in lecture

4 BY SARAH MEl_DRUM

STAFF WRmaz

When the Soviet army invaded
Budapest, Hungary, in 1956, Harry Wu

I, was a geology student at the Univer-

sity of Beijing. He played shortstop
on a baseball team and had a girlfriend.
Four years later, he was in the laogai
Chinese prison system for life in

V prison. His crime? Speaking against

communism during the Hundred Flow-
ers Campaign.

Wu’s lecture on Thursday culmi-
nated Captive Nations Week, spon-
sored by the Contact Committee. Some
members of the audience in Northen
Auditorium had to sit on the ﬂoor and
in the aisles.

People began to trickle into the

I room an hour before Wu was sched-

uled to speak, ﬁguring correctly that
the combination of an important
speaker and a small room would leave
no empty seats.

Wu described his years in the
laogai, occasionally pausing as if rc-
counting his experiences was open-

ing old emotional wounds. He told of

one of his fellow prisoners, who was
so obsessed with sex that he eventu-
ally went mad and committed suicide.
Wu’s family renounced him after the
government declared him a Counter-
revolutionary Rightist. In the end,
Wu’s father was tortured and died, his
mother committed suicide and his
younger brother was killed.

Wu was freed in 1979 at the age of

42, and came to the United States in
1985. He founded the Laogai Research

Foundation in 1992 to investigate the
laogai, the Chinese prison system Wu
compared to the Nazi concentration
camps and the Soviet gulag. Wu ex-
plained how the government uses laogai
prisoners to mass-produce products for
export to the United States.

“We impose our values on China over
copyright law to protect products, but
will not [impose our values] to save hu-
man lives,” said Wu. He explained that
there was an executive order in 1993 to
stop the import of forced labor products
to the United States.

China did not stop, and President
Clinton withdrew the order. The Chi-
nese Embassy spent $5 million in 1992
lobbying Congress. However, in 1995
and 1996, the embassy did not need to
lobby Congress; 800 American compa-
nies lobbied for trade with China instead.

Wu said the laogai also sells death
row prisoners organs, sometimes before

the prisoners have even died. “I
wish the American president and
government would become the ﬁrst
government to nationally condemn
the laogai system,” he said.

Junior James Sammons was im-
pressed by Wu’s presentation.

“It was thought-provoking to
hear from someone who had actu-
ally been tortured, interrogated, and
held in a camp for 19 years,” he said,
“because you get a perspective on
freedom that we don ’t usually have.”
Sammons added that people oﬁen
toss around the phrase, “I have a
right to...” as if it were a toy.

In addition, added Sammons, Wu
was denied privileges Americans
take for granted, such as the ability
to criticize the government without
fear of reprisal.

Heather McDonald contributed
to this article. I

southbound lane is ﬂanked by a steep

Senior drives
off 20-foot-cliff,
flips into creek

BY Liz DETTER

w&Lrr-1-: EDITOR

drop-off above Buffalo Creek. Ruppar’s
car plunged into the ravine, fell about 20
feet, plowed through trees and brush and
landed upside down in the frigid creek.

“The car filled up with water imme-
diately, like a half a foot  I had no idea
[how deep the creek was] so I tried to
look out the windows to see how much
time I had. At this point, I was think-
ing the worst — you know, like rescue
91 l where you have a little air pocket
to survive.”

Ruppar’s power windows did not
work once he had cut off the engine,
and three of the four doors were
blocked by boulders in the creek.

“That was the worst part  you’re
disoriented because your car just got
into an accident and ﬂipped over, it’s
pitch black outside and the car’s ﬁlling
up with water I was trying to not freak
out until I got out of the car.”

Ruppar tried to salvage what he could
before getting out. “My accounting ‘text-
book started ﬂoating past me, [and I]
grabbed my book-bag with all those ex-
pensive textbooks, and threw that out
by the ravine. I’d had an interview that
morning so I had my interview suit —
my one interview suit with my nice shirt
and tie that I always wear to the first in-
terview — in the back seat, and for some
reason it seemed completely logical to
go back into the car to grab the suit.”

SEE CRASH PAGE 6

Upside down, hanging sus-
pended by the seat belt as his car
ﬁlled with water, senior Andrew
Ruppar had enough presence of
mind to grab his backpack and his
interview suit before kicking open
the rear passenger-side door and
climbing out into the snow.

Ruppar was one of the many
casualities of the icy and snowy road
conditions caused by the winter
storm on Jan. 27. That Tuesday night,
he was heading home on Route 11
South. The three-lane alternating
highway had been plowed, but the
continuing snow produced treach-
erous conditions and limited
visibilty.

As he neared Possum Hollow
Road, a few miles outside Lexington,
Ruppar lost control of his 1990 Mer-
cury Topaz and drove off of the road.

“I was doing about 20, 25 [mph],
and being from Texas I’m not sure if
that’s good for snow or not,” said
Ruppar. “Right as I started to slow
down to brake beforéthe ‘tui'"n”,"5Il'tl1e
wheels locked up and the car just
slid forward. There was a little road
sign, and the worst thing I was think-
ing was, ‘oh, no, I’m going to hit the
sign and it’s going to scratch my
car.’” .

On that stretch of Route 11, the

Error in phone
charge notice has
phones ringing

BY SARAH MELDRUM

STAFF WRITER

A decimal makes a big difference. Students with campus phones were told
last week that they could make long-distance calls at the cheapest rate in the
nation, a quarter of a penny per minute.

Unfortunately for them, this was a typographical error.

“We’d be making the national news if we’d found a way to do that,” said

. Flash Floyd, manager of University Services.

A ﬂyer announced new ﬂat rate prices for long distance calls inside the
United States. It said “Flat Rates = Savingsl”

The box below that bold statement gave great rates. It advertised .25 cents
per minute during weekday calling hours, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. In other words, one
penny for every four minutes of a long distance call during peak hours.The
prices given for night-time calls, 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., and weekend hours were both
.12 cents a minute.

Unfortunately, all three were typographical errors. The box should have
read 25 cents per minute for 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Mondays through Fridays, and I2
cents for the other times. A decimal makes a big difference.

The ﬂyer, which came from the W&L Telecommunications department, warns
students to read the ﬁne print of all agreements. It advises students not to fall
for calling card tricks, saying that many calling cards include per-call surcharges
or monthly fees.

“If a student is able to ﬁnd a ten-cent-a-minute deal with no surcharge or fee,
they’ll have found a great deal,” Floyd said. He said calling card advertise-
ments are “a little deceptive in that there are hidden fees.” If a student ﬁgures
out the effective rate of each call, the price will probably be higher than the
publicized rate.

MCI is Washington and Lee’s carrier for direct dial long distance services.
Floyd explained that the school belongs to a consortium of more than twenty
schools that buy a long distance carrier in bulk. MCI was the lowest bidder. The
new ﬂat rates will take effect Feb. 1.

The MCI system breaks the rates into standard blocks of 12hours, 7 a.m. to
7 p.m. It also charges a ﬂat rate, instead of billing according to the time and
distance of a call. Students who live on campus receive a 7-digit authorization
code to use when making long distance calls. Some students opt to use a
calling card instead.

Matt Mills, sophomore, uses Sprint’s ten-cent a minute plan when he calls
his friends at other schools. “It’s cheaper,” he said. He uses the school’s sys-
tem when he calls home, and his parents pay that phone bill. “I can keep things
separate this way, and my father doesn’t have to pay for my personal calls.”

The new ﬂat rates affect only calls within the United States. The old system,
which charged students according to the time calls were made and the distance
of those calls, will remain in effect for international calls.

“So when my parents move to South Korea, that’s just gonna suck,” junior
James Sammons said.

 

 

  

   ".Ch:_-"happ_ens“bétween’i‘1l1€i"Freshs 7  

I manandseiiior years; ‘ Weat the Phi are A  '
takingthis week to highlight the differ-
ences» between these two classes.

_ 7Fresh_man: Goes out Wednesday, Fri-
day, and Saturday. ,

. Sénliocr,-1 Mayestop by The Palms for a

0 :‘‘'‘’’’_‘'le.-; ff"; . ‘

I Freshman; . Is excited abnoutglife,  L
leizrning, and the many; intellectual ’

_’ and social opportunities. that Wash-
 ington and7Lee has to oﬂer.‘ _
Senior.‘ Is excited about the new cook-
ies in the GHQ. “

is“Newéombéhalléit6.%s¢t—.«ti?€{i.!?lzil0€9P’?J'. , .
.cbu,.Se_, I {- ,f    ~' r:

' Senior: Calls the professor a few days
later to , get that Philosophy course.

rooms in the7library. 3- r 0 IV , _ --
‘ Serti9r:.«e,Finds”e‘0?h¢rr’3 ='.“*‘-."7.5J.7",":'.”lf_.’:?.’e"'

Freshmanr,  ‘those ‘closed e A j

  

 

“neecdsls'omething.c  ‘ ’ V  ‘A V
 Senior}?  Calls a freshman: to ,go to
H ‘Stop’-In'when he needs_somet_hmg.

Freshman: Gets a box of cookies and a
birthday card ﬁom mom in the mail.

' Senior: ?Gets awarningjrom the IRS in »
the mail.cc> ‘ “—  s A ‘

I Freshman (girl): Wearsstretch pants," I
a nice sweater, and heels on a‘Geology A
Fieldrtrip. )    _ I I 

. Senior: Shows up in jeansfrom the last j
three ﬁeld trips. — ‘ r

  

;‘ Ecreshmangfv Spends.-the night in ._ --

1.;«FAesimiam;~aGoés.jogsropgrnicgiﬁerif,

FEBRUARY 2, 1998

IIGWS
Cadets pay price

for ring figure riot

BY WILL HARDIE

News EDITOR
On Saturday, Nov. 8, VMI cadets partied hard to celebrate their Ring

Figure ceremony, and, just as importantly, the chance to spend a night out
of the barracks.

Wednesday, three of them shufﬂed uncomfortably in Rockbridge
County Court as police described just what they had done in that exu-
berant haze of drink.

William Meyers and Anthony Kaspyrzyk, both 19, sat stifﬂy in regula-
tion ill-ﬁtting gray uniforms; Robert Hunt, already suspended from VMI
following his conduct that night, slouched in jeans and a bomber jacket.

Rockbridge County Deputy Sheriff T. A. McFaddin told the court how
he had spent most of that night herding rebellious cadets into their motel
rooms and trying to stop them causing too much damage and commotion.
At the Red Oak Inns he found Kaspyrzyk being carried along by two other
cadets, who dropped him when they saw McFaddin.

“When he saw us he started shouting at us, ‘you a**holes,’ this and
that, then he took off up the stairs,” said McFaddin. He caught up with
Kaspyrzyk on the second ﬂoor, where they “had a little conversation.” The
ofﬁcer said he smelled alcohol on Kaspyrzyk’s breath and gave him a
Breathalyzer test, which registered 0.20. He arrested him for underage pos-
session of alcohol.

But McFaddin’s night was not over. Just after 3 a.m., he told the court, he
saw a stationary green Cadillac straddling the dotted line on Route 1 l, with its
left indicator blinking. He said it pulled off right and driﬁed erratically between
the lanes, then ran a red light making the left turn into the Econo Lodge parking
lot. McFaddin pulled it over and peered through the window at cadets Meyers
and Hunt, who «was driving. He gave Meyers a Breathalyzer test’-because he
looked “glassy-eyed”: it registered 0.07. Meyers said in court he had had 10
drinks over the course of eight hours at Ring Figure.

But Hunt refused the test. He told the court that he had drunk two and a
half cans of Budweiser between 9 p.m. and 3 a.m. “I was worried that the
beers would show up,” he said. So McFaddin administered a ﬁeld alcohol
test. Hunt missed two numbers while trying to count to 30, swayed and
raised his arms while attempting to stand on one leg, turned left when told
to turn right, and failed to touch heel to toe while trying to walk in a straight
line. He told the court that he had not driven erratically or ran the red light,
and that he wasn’t drunk. “I felt ﬁne,” he said.

Assistant Director of Cadet Affairs Captain Julianne Faltz saw McFaddin
pull the cadets over and followed the cars into the Econo Lodge parking
lot. She offered to take them back to VMI, but McFaddin said he would
have to arrest them. Meyers was charged with under age drinking, Hunt
with driving under the,inﬂuence of alcohol.

All three pleaded not guilty to the charges; Judge Joseph E Hess found
them all guilty. Kaspyrzyk and meyers were ordered to attend an alcohol
awareness class, with a $75 fee. Kaspyrzyk was also sentenced to 41 hours’
community service. Hunt is appealing his verdict.

VMI has inﬂicted its own punishment. Hunt, already in disciplinary trouble,
was suspended. Meyers is serving four months’ barracks conﬁnement, two
months’ social probation and has been sweating out 1 10 hours of marching.

The annual Ring Figure celebration, at which VMI juniors receive a
heﬂy 40 pennyweight ring commemorating their class, is typically a riotous
affair. It is one of the few occasions when cadets are allowed to spend the
night outside the barracks. Tent parties with kegs of beer were held atthe
Red Oak Inns on Nov. 7 and 8., when most cadets stayed at motels.

CCM SPONSORS LOVE TALK TONIGHT

Listen to voices of experience as you prepare to celebrate Valentine’s Day, the holiday of
romance and of hope. “Falling in Love  Forever!” presenting true love stories from President
and Mrs. Elrod, Captain and Mrs. Peniston, and Jan Kaufman and Art Goldsmith, will be held
at the Gaines Gatehouse on Monday, Feb. 2 at 7:00 p.m. The discussion is sponsored by the
Catholic Campus Ministry. Everyone is welcome.

BLACKMER TO LECTURE ON ISLAMIC MUSIC

Hugh Blackmer, Science Librarian at W&L, will give a talk entitled “Music in Muslim Lands”
on Tuesday, Feb. 3 at 7:30 p.m. The presentation will be given ir1 Room 1 14 of the Science Center.
Blackmer served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Malaysia in the mid-’60s, where he assisted in
community development and ﬁlrnmaking. He received his Ph.D in anthropology from Stanford
University, and taught anthropology courses at Acadia University in Nova Scotia for 18 years.
The lecture is sponsored by the department of religion, in coordination with a seminar on Islam,
and is open to the public.

CRIMES OF THE HEART OPENS FRIDAY

The theater department at W&L presents Crimes ofthe Heart, opening Feb. 6 at 8:00
p.m. in the Johnson Theater. This Pulitzer prize-winning play by Beth Henley centers
around three passionate, eccentric southern women who harbor secrets they are afraid
to share. The show continues with performances on Feb. 7, 9 and 10 at 8:00 p.m., and on

Feb. 8 at 2:00 p.m. For information or reservations, please call the Lenfest box office at
463-8000.

FILM SOCIETY SHOWING “THE PILLOW BOOK”

The next presentation of the W&L Film Society will be the exotic drama “The Pillow
Book” (England/Hong Kong, 1996), directed by Peter Greenaway. The film is in English, Japa-
nese and Mandarin. Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 6 and Saturday, Feb 7, in the
Troubadour Cinema. There is no charge for admission.

USAF HERITAGE OF AMERICA BAND TO PERFORM

The United States Air Force Heritage of American Band will be performing on Monday,
Feb. 9 at 7:00. Admission is free, and the concert is open to the public. They have performed
before the Queen of England, the President of France, and several U.S. presidents. The perfor-
mance will include John Williams’ Winter Games Fanfare, Toccata and Fugue in D Minor by
J. S. Bach, The Black Horse Troop by John Philip Sousa, and selections from the music of
Andrew Lloyd Webber.

POLISH SOCIOLOGIST TO SPEAK AT W&L

Aleksander Lutyk ofthe Polish Academy of Sciences will present a lecture on “Pri-
vate Entrepreneurs and Peasants: Social Change in Polish Agriculture after 1989.” The
lecture will be given on Monday, Feb. 9, at 7:30 pm. in Northen Auditorium. It will be
open to the public. His visit is sponsored by the Shepherd Program in the Interdiscipli-
nary Study of Poverty, the university lectures committee and the department of sociol-
ogy and anthropology.

CD

CONTINUEDONPAGE6

shock that he ended up in a creek.”

COLLEGE
NIGNT

ROCK-N—BOWL

SNACK BAR OPEN
VIDEO GAME ROOM
POOL ROOM

LEXINGTON LANES

COMEJOIN US FOR
"NEON NIGHT S’
EVERY FRIDAY 8. SATURDAY
IIPM IILL IAM

EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT
9:00PM TO MIDNIGHT

$2.00 PER GAME/FREE SHOE RENTAL

 

@:D CRASH

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

Once Ruppar got out of the vehicle, he realized that the
creek was only a foot deep. He climbed out of the ravine
and started walking toward Lexington. He caught a ride
with a family in a truck to the Stop-In Texaco Station on
Route 1 1. The family outﬁtted him with a turquoise
woman’s coat.

“They had a coat in the back of the car that they were
going to drop off at Goodwill, so they gave it to me in-
stead,” he said.

Ruppar called the state police and a tow truck from the
Shell Station in Natural Bridge.

“I saw Andrew, he was soaking wet,” said Heather
Clark, who was working at the Shell Station that night.

“He was cold and wet. He was drenched, with soaking
wet feet and soaking wet pants. He was in a little bit of

Wanted llll . .. Individuals, Student
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
1997 Spring Break Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS

Call INTER‘-CAMPUS PROGRAMS
1 -800-3 27-601 3

According to Clark, the tow truck driver said Ruppar
was “lucky to be alive.” I

“[The car] was totaled, that’s for sure,” said Clark. “It
didn’t look so good. It had been upside down in a creek.”

Ruppar’s car was insured, and he hopes to be able to
replace it soon.

“The worst part of it is that l’ve been trying 1" do really
well in my classes this term, and l’ve been super nal about
my notes,” said Ruppar. Although his notes and books
were mined by the accident, Ruppar said that his profes-
sors have been very understanding.

At least two other students were involved in auto acci-
dents the same night; both escaped without injury. Kelsay
Berland, senior, drove off of the road to avoid hitting a car
as it spun out of control on I-81 northbound a few miles
from Lexington. Freshman Aaron Knoll damaged the frame
of his ’94 Ford Explorer 12 miles north of Roanoke on I-
81on the way home from an Aerosmith concert.

BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES. ALL
SPRINGBREAK
locations. Florida, Cancun, etc. from $89,
register your group or be our Campus Rep.
Inter-campus programs 800-32.’?-60 15

  

O

 
 

 
 
 
 

maybe a few brain cells.

  
 

ter You Hit
opes.

When you're ready for a study
break, head for Massanutten.
: Because College Days are back
during January and February.
Every Wednesday and Friday
from 12:30 to 10:00 p.m. you can
get $18 ski and snowboard lift tickets

Massanutten. It will save you some money—and

1-800-207-MASS

www.massresort.com

Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

INTENSE
HEADACHE?
ACHING
JOINTS?
RED,
ITCHY
RASH?

  

,1-lit

 
      

BLURRED
VISION‘?
You ARE
VERY

ILL.
Go TO THE
INFIRMARY.

  
  

 
    

    

 

rr‘ .~.~v,,- JI.""'

 

aw*,/ I

FEBRUARY 2, 1998

RESULTS

Men’s Basketball
(3-8)
Wed. Hampden-Sydney
L 61-68
Guilford
L 55-58

Sat.

Wornen’s Basketball
(8-9)
Mon. Emory & Hemy
W 60-56
at RMWC
L 42-53
Guilford
L 59-77

Wrestling (2-7)
Swarthmore
L 27-15
Western Maryland
L 46-4
Ursinus
L 24-12

Thu.

Sat.

Sat.

AHEAD

Monday, February 2
Men's Basketball —
at Bridgewater
Tuesday, February 3
Women's Basketball ——
at Emory & Henry
Wednesday, February 4
Men's Basketball —
at Va. Wesleyan
Thursday, February 5
Women's Basketball —
at Va. Wesleyan
Saturday, February 7
Men's Basketball —
at Eastern Mennonite
Women's Basketball —
Lynchburg, at 2:00,
Warner Center
M&W Track —
at VMI Relays
Sunday, February 8
Wrestling-
at Va. State Toumy

Men’s b-ball loses to
ﬁrst and worst
teams in conference

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
-—-——-j*‘ STAFF \X/Rmaz

It was a rough week for the men’s
basketball team: they lost to both
the first place team and the last place
team in the conference.

The Generals went down to ﬁrst-
place Hampden-Sydney 68-61 on
Wednesday night at the Warner
Center in front of a large home
crowd. They had beaten the ODAC
leading Tigers 44-42 earlier this sea-
son at Hampden-Sydney. But they
just couldn’t get the job done that
night. Four Tigers ﬁnished in double
digits and a late W&L rally fell short.

On Saturday afternoon, the Gen-
erals played a sluggish game in
which they seemed to overlook last
place Guilford College and went on
to lose to the 58-55. Kevin Cobbin’s
last-second three-pointer, which
would have sent the game into over-
time, came up short. The Generals
now stand at 8-8 overall and 5-5 in
the ODAC.

On Wednesday night, Hampden-
Sydney used a 14-0 run over the end
of the ﬁrst half and the start of the
second halfto put themselves in po-
sition for the victory. W&L trailed
24-20 with 3 :45 to go in the half after
Matt Jackson hit a desperation
three-pointer as the shot clock ex-
pired. Hampden-Sydney then went
on a 7-0 run to close out the half
and make the score 31-20.

In the second half they picked
up where they left off and went on
another 7-0 run to expand their lead
to 38-20 early in the second half. The
Generals trailed by double digits for
most ofthe second half but put to-
gether a late rally, pulling back with
a Rich Peterson lay-up to 66-61 with
29 seconds left. Following Peterson’s
basket, Cobbin came up with a great
steal and had a chance to bring the
Generals within two, but his three-
pointer drew iron and the Tigers put
the game away at the free-throw line.

Sophomore guard T. J. Grimes led

the way for the Tigers, ﬁnishing with
21 points. Joining Grimes in double
ﬁgures were sophomore center Jeremy
Harris with 13, sophomore guard
Chris Fox with 12, andjunior guard
Alex Robbins with 10. For the Gen-
erals, Peterson had a double-double,
ﬁnishing with 19 points and a ca-
reer-high 11 boards. Freshman
guard Will Ballard added 13 and se-
nior Kelly Dyer had 10.
Hampden-Sydney shot a solid 9-
17 from behind the arc in route to
the victory, including a 4-6 perfor-
mance from Grimes. When these
teams met earlier this year,
Hampden-Sydney shot 1-15 from

‘three-point land and the Generals

went on to win 44-42. The win im-
proved the Tigers to 15-2 overall and
9-2 in the ODAC.

On Saturday afternoon, the Gen-
erals showed a lack of intensity and
were plagued by poor foul shooting
as Guilford pulled off the three-point
upset, 58-55. The Generals led by ﬁve
at halftime, 26-21, and continued to
lead the Quakers for most of the sec-
ond half. But the Quakers put to-
gether a late rally, which was capped
off by a key steal and basket by
freshman guard Jaron Randall,
which gave the Quakers a 50-46 lead
with 2:32 left in the game. Randall
was the high scorer for Guilford: he
scored 11 ofhis 14 points in the sec-
ond half to lead the comeback effort
for the Quakers.

The Generals trailed by seven
with less than a minute remaining
and the game looked all but over.
But following a quick lay-up by
Peterson, the Generals got the ball

back under their own basket after a W

Quaker in-bounds pass went ﬂying
out of bounds without anyone
touching it. Dyer then hit a three-
pointer to make the score 57-55 and
the Generals then fouled Guilford’s
Kenyatta Ramsey with only eight
seconds remaining. Ramsey hit the
ﬁrst shot to extend it to a three-point

sports

PAGE 3

    junior Rich Peterson crushes his opponent’s leg. Despite his15 points
and 10 rebounds, the Generals dropped a close one to Guilford, 58-55

HOLLISTER H0VL‘y/PHOTO EDITOR

lead but missed the second shot to

‘give the Generals ayﬁnal ‘chance to

tie the game. Junior guard Cobbin
dribbled the length ofthe court and
got offa good three point look after
spinning out oftrouble, but it came
up a bit short and the Quakers
walked off the court with the upset
victory.

Randall ﬁnished with 14 for the

T

/T 7


171

Washington and Lee hosted
three Centennial Conference
teams in a wrestling quad meet on
Saturday and came away with
losses to Swarthmore, Western
Maryland and Ursinus. Leading
the Generals effort was sopho-

 Jock Short

- Wrestling drops three -

more 126-pounder who went 2-0
before sitting out the ﬁnal match.
Sophomore heavyweight John
Sensing went 2-1 with both of his
wins coming by pin and junior
150-pounder John Grumbine had
two wins. -from staff reports

Give your
intramural pictures
and results to

(71112 ﬂing-tum iﬁhtl

_ Quakers and fellow freshman Jon

Evans‘ ﬁnishedwith 12. For the Gen-
erals, Peterson ﬁnished with his sec-
ond double-double of the week, hav-
ing poured in 15 points and had 10
rebounds. Dyer added 11 and
sophomore center Scott Hudson
added 10. The Generals were only 9-
20 from the free throw line while the
Quakers converted on nine of their

last 1 1 attempts in the last ﬁve min- 
utes of the game. The win moved 1

Guilford to 5-14 overall and 3-11 in
the ODAC. The Generals next travel
to Bridgewater College on Monday
where they will face the Eagles for
the ﬁrst time this year. The next
home game for the Generals will be
next Monday night, Feb. 9, against
Randolph-Macon.

Quakers crush women’s
hoop squad like rice cakes

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—“*““*‘_" STAFF WRHER

The Lady Generals had yet another
up-and-down week: they went 1-2 with
a win over Emory & Hemy and losses
to both Randolph-Macon Women’s
College and Guilford College.

They are now 8-9 overall and 5-9 in
the ODAC.

Washington and Lee started off the
week with a win on Tuesday night at
the Warner Center, downing the Emory
& Henry Wasps 60-56. W&L centers
junior Amber Hinkle and freshman Leah
Sawyer scored 30 points and grabbed
18 rebounds between them, en route to
victory. Hinkle ﬁnished the match with
a game-high 16 points and 10 rebounds,
while Sawyer ﬁnished with 14 points
and eight rebounds. Sawyer came into
the game averagingjust 3.5 points per
game. Junior forward Chrissy Burghardt
added 13 points for the Lady Generals.

For the Wasps, junior guard Jaclyn
Dickens led the way with 14 points and
senior guard Angie Simpkins had 10
points and seven assists. Dickens hit
four three-pointers in the second half
and the Wasps shot 5-11 from behind
the are for the game.

The Generals led by as many as eight
points in the second half but needed to
overcome a late rally which brought the
Wasps within two points, 58-56, with
less than 30 seconds remaining. Soon
aﬁer, senior Tania Dean put the game
out of their reach by putting in two free
throws. Their loss dropped E&H to 6-9
overall and 3-8 in the ODAC.

On Thursday the Lady Generals hit
the road and traveled to Randolph-Ma-
con Women’s College where they suf-
fered a disappointing 53-42 defeat. The
Lady Generals led 26-21 at the half but
could only muster up 16 points in the
second half. They shot a lowly 25 per-
cent from the ﬁeld.

Tara Carelton was the high scorer
for the Wildcats, pouring in 19 points
and grabbing eight rebounds. Team-

mate Kai Felton scored 14 as she went
4-4 from three-point land; Jennifer Bap-
tist ﬁnished with a double-double with
11 points and 14 points for the Wild-
cats.

Their win improved the lady Wild-
cats to 8-7 overall and 6-6 in the ODAC.

For the Generals, Burghardt led the
way with 11 points and sophomore
Ansley Miller added 10. Once again
both of the W&L centers played strong
games. Hinkle had eight points and a
career-high 15 rebounds while Sawyer
had nine points and 13 rebounds.

The Lady Generals, who came into
the game ranked #2 in the nation for

free throw shooting, were only 3-7 from '

the charity stripe.

On Saturday, turnovers plagued the
Generals in their loss to the Guilford
College Quakers, 77-59. W&L turned
the ball over 18 times in the ﬁrst half
and ﬁnished the game with 27 tum-
overs. They had lost to Guilford in
Greensboro just 10 days previously. The
Lady Quakers now stand at 10-7 overall
and 9-5 in the ODAC.

Marija Primats had a huge game for
the Quakers: she finished with 25 points,
ﬁve assists, and ﬁve steals and was 5-6
from three-point land. Laura Haynes, #3
scorer in the nation, ﬁnished with 18
points and 15 rebounds.

For the Generals, Sawyer recorded
the ﬁrst double-double of her career and
completed a great week with 17 points
and 10 rebounds. Hinkle also recorded
a double-double with 10 points and 12
rebounds.

For the week, the combination of
Hinkle and Sawyer averaged 24.7 points
and 22.7 rebounds per game. The Lady
Generals travel to E&H on Tuesday for
a rematch with the Wasps and then
travel to Virginia Wesleyan on Thurs-
day.

Their next home game will be next
Saturday at 2:00 p.m. in the Warner,
when the Lady Generals will host
Lynchburg.

 

 n PAGE 4

   
  
   
 
  
    
 
     
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
       
   
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
      
   
        
  
  
   
    
  
 
     
   
    
       
 
   
    
      
      
     
      
   
 
 
       
  
   

7

or
W .9}

w . of white columns a taboo topic hides. Febrnia
' ashington and Lee that rarely goes reported, and it is a crime that Vioiates eVei'Ything this school hoids

g, cheating and stealing in one package. to
lle .e campuses is a serious national crime. It has reared its ugly head» at the little School in the Shenandoah Vaiiey Where Parents Send their C121 tght

 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  

« I

..%W~

        

will be sexua
1 in four coll:
committed ac

y assaulted in her lifetime 0 22% of all rape.v
ge women have either been raped or suffered air
that meet the legal definition of rape 0 75% ‘-
-n acquaintance rape had been drinking or using d?
Page ~,.

 

involved in

. icial rapes on campus in several years, W&L has reported percent of all women involved in an acquaintance rape had been using alcoho
=tWeen Aug i 2 i994 and iuiy 3 i 7 1997- The iast “Stranger drug use impairs a woman’s ability to communicate her decision about seigfas.
to judge a woman’s response. Despite the fact that a woman might not
0 i 1990. detines tape as “sextiai inteiootiise against the Wiii of intentions obvious, it still does not justify any “accidental” sexual assault.

, t e threat of force, intimidation or victim incapacitation.” A “Men Should never take advantage ofa drunk woman,” Young Said
as any sexual act against another Person against the persons Wiii Though oﬂicials say that there is no way to prevent a rape, there are ways to '
of iving consent. “There are people out there looking to harm women. It’s a control thi’ ;
t tionai siitVeYs ofooiiege Women show that oniY i in eVeiY 25 need to be aware of what you are doing and who you are with.”
,, h0FitieS- The UniVeisitY oniy tepotts those otieiises that are Rape counselors and psychologists stress several steps that can be taken .
con rmc y crimma oi iinivefity judicial action. self inabad situation; at ‘
“Date rape is the most und errepoited crime in the country,” Michael Young, Director of 0 Set sexual limits. It’s your body, and if you don’t want to continue sexfi
University Security said. nothing wrong with you. If you know how far you are willing to go beforeh

account #1:

 

 Dean of Students Dayirl It-l owi son agrees. “It is a signiﬁcant problem to get people to report.” decision stronger.
F ebnliny 4. 1995. The night Ofthe This problem is ampliiied iii a smaller community. Often, victims who report their crimes are 0 Be independent and aware on dates and at fraternity parties. Ddn’

Sathptes Chhchtté the htst :°'h°W ht subjected to rigorous questioiiiiig and have their stories ridiculed. Dr. James Worth, Univer- someone’s house if you asked to go to the dorms. Make sure you still ha
the year; ﬁve days until my 19th birthday; . 1 . . V  I , X j. . . . ' ""
the night my best friend raped me. I had sity Psycho o gist, tllllilxs» that me size of the school contributes to the problem. surroundings and make sure you get your own drinks. _
bronchitis, and uninforn-led about tho effects “This is a small enough community where the victim fears being shunned, exposed or ridi- 0 Be forceful and ﬁrm. If you are sure of yourself, your message will be 1
ofmixing alcohol and antibiotics, Idrank that culed. There IS little anon,yniity at this school,” he said. 0 Trust your gut-level feelings. They do not lie to you. If you think you
night» Rennning t0 my dorm room a1one,‘I The fears a victim might have ofbeing exposed or ridiculed are not simply aW&L phenomenon. you probably are.
takilked ttzﬂalgttt Oh my hah “hth I t°°°tV"tt his “One problem is our society doesn’t look at rape as a crime,” Young said. “Like every 0 Avoid falling for lines like, “You would if you loved me.” Ifhe loved)

one c . . . . , . . . . . . .
p He was Coming Over despite my excuses other crime, if your car is stolen, you d report it. If you are raped, unfortunately, there is a your decision and would not pressure you into doing anything you do notvzi
than was going to boo Ho stigma attached. 0 Be careful when you invite someone back to your home or room. The
arrived, and I let him in. He W& L women feel that the stigma is ampliﬁed on this campus. places for a rape to occur.
W85 Iny _beSt friend. I ‘  --—~——- “I think women would be afraid to report a rape,” said senior Emily 0 Have your own transportation. Many parties have sober drivers, and ‘
 1l1iIi‘r)nS.1la1Tne1E::m\;vﬁ: He was my bes t lE1Tamptf)lll. “oeopllle here would not see lie: as ‘the girl who was raped,’ but on Wednesday, Friday and Saturday nights, Live Drive can be contacted at
lay down on my bed and friend I rat er as, the girl w o tumed so-and-so in . . V I 0 Avoid excessrveouse of alcohol or drugs. I .
would not ieave when 1 trus te d him . For some W&L men, the thought of women feeling unsafe on this campus 1S Oﬁen, rape victims worry about making a scene and will not make thei.
asked. There Va 3 no t h 1. n g against everything for which this school stands. public, but if a woman waits until they are both in her room, it is a private _pla
He Said he W0Uid giye unusua 1 _ um t 1. 1 “There should be absolutely no reason for any W&L female to feel like she must be anyone to help her.
the it back thasstitge to ‘the’ take a selfdefense course for PE so that she can safely attend a frat party without “Be very aware of what you do and do not want to happen,” Margan
viate my coughing and to he lay down on my . . ,, . . ,,
help me fall asleep. bed and mm 1 d n O t an army of her soronty sisters, said freshman Thomas Wood’. ‘ about offending the person.-
Iawokoy face down: oa_ leave when I In a national survey of college students conducted earlier this decade, 35 Worth olfers some advice to males:
ked in my own bed, with a sk e d percent ofthe men surveyed indicated that they would commit a violent rape “Imagine yourself having gotten arrested on a drunk in public char e3
him iiiiono me Oniy the of a woman ifthey were assured that they could get away with it. This creates someone else gets thrown in there with you. He is much bigger than you,‘h
Word h° came tmth thy T“ 7 7 a dan rerous situation when this attitude is combined with alcohol use and the force to hold ou downand sodomize ou. Ima me how ou would fee ,.”
g Y Y g Y

lips as he entered me. It was

Over in a few mmmes Ibm_ assumption that W&L is a completely safe environment.

ion my head in my pillows and mod. 1 According to the National Victim Center, 75 percent of all men and 55
couldn’t do anything else, for I was numb t
with confusion, shock and disgust. Finally,
he left my room.

I was lost. I went to the school doctor;
they told me that I had an alcohol problem. I

local rape hotline A police»
463 -RAPE (24 hours) 4(,%.2g1

     
 

went to a peer counselor; he just wanted de— C ouns e 1 1 ng S tudent . A
tails as to which position the act occurred in. Dr‘ Anne S°h°r°t'Lath°“t3 1 46
Then, through the advice and help of five of 463'8750 toﬁtce) 4636478 (home) campus».
my closest friends, Ibrought charges against Dr‘ James W°rth: ‘ i " ' ~. on‘, 46.
him through the Student-Faculty Hearing 463'8592 toﬁtce) 4634000 (home) .

website:

i _ Sexual Assault Information Page
'h¥ittp': //www. cs . utk . eclu/~bartley/saInfoPage . htm

Board. In a unanimous verdict, he was found
guilty of “sexual exploitation through ma-
nipulative and predatory behavior.”

His punishment entailed counseling by a
school psychologist, prohibition from enter-
ing the freshmen dorms and social proba-
tion through the end of the year. A week
after his appeal against these sanctions was
denied, he was caught out at a fraternity party.

Given the opportunity to withdraw from
the university or go before a disciplinary
committee, he chose the former and trans-
ferred to a nearby University, continuing to
return to campus quite frequently for the next
two years.

sex survey

  
 
     
 
 

On Wednesday, May 14, 1997, A professor initiated an innocent discussion of gendeli rel
at Washington and Lee basedon “The Colonnade Club” cartoon that had appeared in the R ' _
tum Phi that week. The professor was astonished when the students requested that they co
duct an anonymous survey to determine some sexual facts about the 24 members of the cl -'
The professor wrote the following four questions on the board, the students wrote their answ-
on slips of paper which were collected, and the results tabulated as follows: t

  
     
 
   
   
     
    
       

  

_ Have you ever had sexual intercourse? yes: 71% no: 29% ,1
it has take“ the 3 iohg time to Put that Have you ever given oral sex? yes: 83% no: 17% F
night behind the i am ooihtoited With the Have you ever received oral sex? yes: 75% no: 21% no answgrzi ‘
khowiedge that I W35 Shppottett by my How many partners have you had in sexual intercourse? 5
friends, and that I may help others to heal Zefoi 29% One: 13% two: 13% three: 17% four: 8%i
through my own experience. However, I will ﬁve. 4% Six: 8% no answer; 8% :1

    
 
       
   
      
 
  

never forget those minutes, when. I lay help- A‘
less and immobile, before he who was my

b f o d This class, being a general education class, contained many students with differenihfba .
est rien .

grounds and majors. During an after class discussion a student said that he believed the t
biggest extracurricular activities on this campus are drinking and sex.

    

"‘?7§I:* ,m:iiwr iwitizéfi rim rm;-2-zg !i(zi:e' {}"i".€?!” tire ivcriitz, fifé’ ift£3g5.’i‘.-'.
riize eafzicrzfc-2:3 oven“ ziw ir.¥—if:;rtie2i'e*r!. rite t.’,it‘,I.?é;’1‘ii£’?2{1‘£?{1t over the (‘liilffi
dmermmrﬁM3ﬁh-meﬁwnmnmgornmﬁhwneanwﬁaﬂia
2713:. or if (sitar! £ib.sce2ic*e3_fi*(.ziii it wires fizz? crisis zm‘.iiiz'r.s‘ .:':‘_. wife‘ 395:9
;iirg£;i fi;;i:r."

Writer & Editor: Jason Zacher

Artist: Hollister Hovey
Layout Design: Tarah Grant

* The accounts were given to The Ring-tum Phi by
students who wixli to reiiiam anonyiizoizi. Naiiim
med iii the accoimti have been c/ranged.

  
  
 

  
  

  
   
 
 
    
       
    
    

€

  

ry' 2, 1998

ers to be “safe.” Next
I amtd.

:-

It

.ictims
.eptp ted
)f male
iugs

  

I

tor drugs. Alcohol or
- A e as a man’s ability
‘be. able to make her

  
   
      
  
 
  
      
  
     
    
   
    
      
    
     
  
   
   
     
     
    
   
    
   
    
 
 
   
  
      

‘It 'eyourrisks.
I"? Young said. “You

'0 avoid putting your-
It

1 activity, there is

d, it can make your

aciept a ride back to
e control over your

nuch clearer.
are being pressured,

.ou, he would respect
t to do.
-seilare the most likely

om 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.

63-8100.
‘F

intentions known in
:e and there might not

to sdid. “Don’t worry
Later in the evening,
e hi s you and he uses

— by Jason Zacher

  

alth center
mwi
security
-8999

     
    
  
    
   
  

    

   
   
   

   

  
 
  
  

 
   

  
   
 
    

    

 
    

  
   

   

 

     
   
 

.
',,- .,._._.7{.. e»
4 ‘.5; :1;

t;’;;2;;, .s?f‘%.°:<::‘£.?: 

         
     
      
  

' . " r- ..
-* in 4: ‘mm.
Z i...‘x 3:._- 3. 't..

 

F

 

PAGE 5

report

    
   
 
  
    
     
    
 

. .
it  :’,i'.="».-kit’ s.‘.«'§ ::§.s2?f§i’}{‘»~

v 113%’ ;,a:;';zi§»9z:arr;2 in

 

four in five
women.who

are‘victims
of sexual

assault know

their

attackers

 

  5:} ..‘33Z"‘‘ ”

Where do I start?
The weirdest thing is that fresh-

man year he told people that we slept
together, and now he refuses to admit
that we ever hooked up. Last week I
found out one of his friends saw me that
night with Scott*. I was plastered. I
thought, God, why didn’t you help me?

‘ And he said, it didn’t look like you

needed help.

I was totally freaked out. I was a mess.
I’ve blamed myself for three years, so I
didn’t tell anyone. I thought, I was too
drunk and I should have known better and
all the typical things; I should have con-
trolled myself Obviously I was hooking
up with him beforehand, voluntarily. He
was my best guy friend. I didn’t know any-
body when I came here, except him. So I
had all this trust in him. He was going to
take care of me. He’s gonna be my big
brother and watch out for me and make
sure no one hurts me. And he was the one
that ended up doing it.

It was during orientation. The whole
thing was awkward. I didn’t want it to hap-
pen. I didn’t plan on it. We went to afrater-

nity house and it was late. I really trusted
the kid. I really liked him. I was always on
his hall, hanging out and I felt really com-
fortable with his friends.

We all got really sh**-faced. My mom,
.0 this day, refuses to believe that my drink

wasn’t spiked, because I absolutely
blacked out. But I think it was just the
beginning of a series of blackouts for me. I
think I had a drinking problem... after that.
I had never drank that much before so it
was my ﬁrst blackout. And that’s the worst
part of the whole thing: I can’t tell you ev-
ery detail of what happened. All I can tell
you is that I remem-
ber being with him. I
remember being at
the fraternity. I re-
member a whole
bunch of us saying
we were going back
to the dorms and it
was so nomial for me
to be on his hall.
Hanging out with
them. I didn’t think
twice about it. For a
while his friends
were there and I re-
member we were eat-
ing, watchin g TV in
Scott’s room. I
guess they all left.
And we started
hooking up.

I just thought it was really strange, be-
cause it kind of broke the boundary of our

v friendship. It was weird. I was so drunk

and I said, Scott, maybe we shouldn’t do
this, and he just kept kissing my neck and
I was trying to talk about it and obviously
he wasn’t participating in the conversation.
I would get up and sit back down, the whole
time wondering what I was doing there.
All I know is that I remember kissing him

 

coping by Jason Zacher

Coping with a rape can be very hard on a small campus. The personal atmosphere
and closeness that Washington and Lee students share often make concealing trau-
matic events difficult. There are many ways to get help while keeping the assault a secret.

There are some immediate concerns that victims need to consider after an assault.
The Virginia State Crime Commission tells victims of a sexual assault not to: shower or
bathe, brush or comb your hair, change clothes, eat or drink anything, brush or rinse
your teeth, touch things where the incident happened or put on makeup.

Ifthe attack took place in a dorm or in a fraternity house, the victim should call campus
security immediately. The victim should be taken to the inﬁrrnary as soon as possible.

Any person who is a victim of a sexual assault should also call a friend or relative and
get to a safe place. She should keep warm and write down all of the details she can
remember. This will make any future prosecution or University judicial proceedings easier.

According to rape counselors, many rape victims are severely affected psychologi-
cally after the incident. Several studies have shown that there are several speciﬁc
stages that rape victims go through during their recovery.

The ﬁrst is the crisis stage. A victim is shocked that the assault really happened,
and might appear visibly disturbed, cry, shake or even faint. The most common emo-
tion is fear, fear of the attacker returning, fear of the place the attack occurred, fear of
people who remind her of the attacker. There are so many different feelings a victim
might feel during this stage — all of them are normal. She might not want to be touched,
or she might want physical affection from someone she trusts. She may talk about the
attack, or she could be completely quiet for a long time.

Counselors deﬁne the second stage as the denial stage. The victim will try to assure
their friends that she is okay, but she probably feels that her friends are tired of hearing
about the incident. This stage can be very brief or it can last for years. She might try
some harmful things during this stage like: overeating, not eating, overworking, as well
as severe alcohol or drug abuse.

The suffering stage is when the assault ﬁnally sinks in for the victim. There is
typically a feeling of loss, and the victim might experience depression. Other common
reactions include: fear, nightmares, changes in eating or sleeping, sexual problems,
anger, guilt and shame. She might also have ﬂashbacks and have frequent, disturbing
memories of the assault. ,

When a victim becomes a “survivor” rather than a victim, she is in the resolution
stage. The assault becomes an accepted, if painful, part of her life.

While almost every victim of a sexual assault goes through these stages of recov-

is different, but all will go through the same stages. Services such as University
Counseling are critical for helping a woman progress smoothly through these stages.

“We are available to both women and men,” said Dr. James Worth, University
Psychologist. “We have done counseling for both.”

Rape can also be very traumatic for friends of the victim. It is common for friends
to have strong feelings of anger and rage against the assailant, but as a friend, there
are several things you can do to help a rape victim.

- Listen, do not judge. Do not make her prove her story. Accept her version of the
facts and be supportive.

- Be available. She may need to talk at odd hours. She might not tell many people
and she might rely strictly on one person.

° Give comfort and offer shelter. She may not want to be alone. Stay with her or let
her stay with you.

- Don’t ever tell her what she could have done to prevent the rape. The only person
who can prevent a rape is the rapist. Let her know she is not to blame.

- Do not be overly protective. She needs to feel control in her life.

- Deal with your feelings somewhere else. Don’t discuss your feelings with her. Call
a hotline or talk to another friend.

“We encourage all victims to report it to the police department and prosecute,”
said Michael Young, Director of University Security.

Even if a victim does not want to press charges with the police, she can petition the
Student-Faculty Hearing Board.

The SFHB’s purpose is to investigate allegations of sexual misconduct at W&L.
The board consists of four students elected by the Executive Committee and four
faculty members. There are also two alternate students and two alternate faculty
members in case of a conﬂict of interest.

A victim can submit a complaint to either the Dean of Students, Davd Howison, or
the University Mediator, Dean Anece McCloud. McCloud will also present all of the
alternatives available to the student.

“An investigation does not occur in the sense of an EC investigation,” SFHB
President Nancy Margand said. “If the case comes to SFHB each student tells their
side of the story, can call witnesses to corroborate and turn in “evidence” they think
will support their view. Students receive help from advocates from the law school.”

Conﬁdentiality is stressed throughout the process to all parties. The SFHB can
hand down punishments ranging from counseling and social probation to suspen-
sion and expulsion from the University. \

University officials stress that no matter what course of action a victim wants tr

ery, there is no timetable in which she will complete them. Every sexual assault victim

and talking about it. I remember laying
down, just passing out. When I passed
out, I had my clothes on, or when I remem-
ber nothing else, I had my clothes on and I
was not in danger.

And when I woke up, really early, ﬁve in
the morning or something, he was next to
me and all my clothes were on the ﬂoor. I
freaked. I had no idea what had happened.
I got up, put my clothes on without talking
to him Ileﬁ.

Before this I would see him every day
without fail. Four days go by and I didn’t
even hear from him. No contact. I was so
scared. I didn’t tell anyone. I felt like some-
thing was wrong and I was sure I’d had
sex. I felt weird because I hadn’t had sex in
a really long time. It was the ﬁrst time at
college that it had happened to me and ob-
viouslyitwasn’t in any waythat I’dplanned
I was a naive little girl who thought sex was
important and you had it with the people
you love He crushed those expectations.

The next day, I remember trying to ﬁnd
out  I asked a friend of his, “So have you
talked to Scott?”

He said, “Yeah, Scott says that you guys
slept together.”

“Oh, he did?”

And that’s how Ifound out — through

member details of what he did to me, what
happened And I can’t remember anything.
And I think part of it is that I blocked it out,
emotionally, for so long that it ’s not some-
thing that I can think about.

This summer I ﬁnally talked to some
people about it. I told my mom for the first
time. She knew the summer after freshman
year that something was wrong. She kept
asking, Why are you behaving like this?
What is wrong with you? She tried to pull
me out of school. She’s still mad at herself
for not doing that. I guess she’s trying to
take responsibility and she can’t.

I convinced her to let me come back. So
this summer, I told her and of course she
lost it again I told her I’ve dealt with it I’ve
beendealingwithitforthreeyeais. I’mmore
stable about it now. I can talk about it. For
her, she just found out, so it was like me,
freshman year. She wanted to help me and
tried to pull me out of school again. I al-
most let her. I thought, I’ll stay home for a
year, get myself together. I don’t want to
go back and have this pattern of behavior
continue and she said, well you shouldn’t
drink. For a while I didn’t, and then just
with my roommates. And now I drink, but
it’s better. I feel like I have ﬁnally gained
some control over my life again.

It’s sad, because

a friend of his. I
didn’t know 
what to do. I
didn’t tell any-
one. I felt stupid.
I guessIinternal-
izedita1l:I’mjust
anidiot Thiswill
go away. We
don’thavetotalk
anymore.
Forme, drink-
ing helped me
forget. That has
been my main
fault in the whole

thing.

conscious.

weight.

It wasn’t a violent

But I know

that I didn’t consent
and that I wasn’t

probably just dead
Like a fish .
It ’ s sick to think
tha t he proceeded.
It’s really sick.

I see a friend going
through the same
thing this year, the
same pattern of be-
havior, and I just
found out, last week,
she was raped. It’s
everywhere. You
have no idea. At the
time it happened to
me, I didn’t know it
was rape. You know,
this was my ﬁrst ex-
perience in college.
So I’m thinking, this

I was

ordeal. I handled
it the wrong way. I’ve read a lot about it.
There are two basic reactions. Some people
shut themselves off to all men: cold, afraid
of everything. Or like me: No big deal! A lot
of women that get raped become alcohol-
ics. It’s sad because I know college would
have been so different if this hadn’t hap-
pened to me. I believe that.

I think about confronting him. Perhaps
I will .. . when I’m ready Now it would cause
too much pain. Who would believe me? I
had a bad past. My freshman year just got
worse and worse. It would be hard for any-
one to remember me the way I was before it
all happened and believe what I said. Most
people would say, whatever, you were just
drunk. And you regretted it the next day.
And that’s just not the case. I’ve experi-
enced those feelings too. This was differ-
ent. This was wrong. Something happened
that night that made me feel terrible about
myself. Nothing else was like this. That’s
how I know it was rape.

It wasn’t a violent thing, but I know that
I didn’t consent and that I wasn’t con-
scious. I was probably just dead weight.
Like a fish. It’s sick to think that he pro-
ceeded. It’s really sick. I try to sit and re-

’ 9 is how it works, you
get drunk and sometimes you do stuff you
don’t want to do — and you have to get
over it. Then it started affecting my men-
tality, my drinking, I was a different person
freshman year, I had to be the party girl
who could go out until ﬁve in the morning
and out-drink the guys. That’s just not
me. I’m ﬁnally starting to feel like my nor-
mal self. I’mtrying to regain some stability
in my life, some security, peace.

A lot of girls just aren’t aware, they think
it’s OK and that shows guys get away with
it. The girl that talked to me recently that
said she was raped said, ‘Listen, its no big
deal. You just have to get over it.’ And I
told her, “this happened to you recently
and you tell me its no big deal and you
sound just like me three years ago.”

They were both drunk, but he was vio-
lent with her. He held her down, was hurt-
ing her. lt’s so sad, I want everyone to know
who he is, because I don’t want anyone to
be around him. It scares me. At this school,
you’re trapped. Nobody’s going to believe
you. I want everyone to be aware. People
aren’t reporting this sh**. And it goes on.
A lot. So many women here have probably
been through this. My mom is so angry,

she wants me to take revenge and post
these guys’ names all over campus. I would

_ get crushed. That’s why no one reports it.

Nobody wants to go to a counselor
here. You’re trapped. I want to warn fresh-
man girls. It’s not enough what they did
for us freshman year. Looking back on
that thing we went
to, the video on
rape, we were jok-
ing around the
whole time. This
isn’t going to hap-
pen to us. We just
were not thinking. It
happened to me
that week.

We were so na-
ive. We trusted ev-
erybody. And the
one person I tnisted
the most screwed
me over. Now Ithink
twice about every
guy  I just wish
people knew. Iwant
to graduate in peace.

It’s possible that he was too drunk to
know what he was doing. I don’ 1 think he
did it with malice. He probably didn’t know
what was going on. After that he tried his
darnndest to be my friend. Every fall, he
starts getting friendly, calling, dropping by.
I think he wants my reassurance that he
did nothing wrong. He must know it isn’t
all right. When I see him now, I don’t ac-
knowledge his existence.

Now I want to talk to people, freshmen,
I guess. Ifsonieone in my sorority had said,
this happened to me, if you need anyone
to talk to  I would have gone to them. I
was so convinced that I was the only one
this happened to and didn’t know who to
talk to. I didn’t even know we had a peer
counciling system.

I didn’t know about the rape recovery
group, either. I’d like to go, now. Everyone
recovers in different phases. I feel like now
I could help other people. Its taken me
three years, but now I can deal with it, con-
front it. It seems like the next step is using
this in some positive way, to help other
people. It’s horrible that I thought there
was no one I could talk to. I didn’t even tell
my mother. I tell her everything. It was a

 

persue, it is important to seek out help to recover from the incident.

look around, everybody’s drinking! I was
different. I wasn’t just drunk and coming
home; I was drunk and going home with
whoever. It was bad. God, the trauma of
answering the questions. I think I’m most
defensive about people not believing me.

The worst part is, this "r1 I talked with
to d me the same
kind of story. She
was drunk, she
blacked out. I
didn’t believe her.
The ﬁrst thing that
came into my head
was: “Yeah right.”
And I caught my-
self and thought,
“Jesus, what are
you doing, you

have to beheve her.
Why would she
be making this
sh** up?” Ithink
it’s rare that girls
make this stuff up.
It’s not fun to go
, through, or to pre-
tend to go through.
I want to know what he thinks hap-
pened. But I don’t want to talkto him. I just
want to say, you know, you are a horrible
person. This is a terrible thing to do. You
hurt me and it will be with me for the rest of
my life. This is not acceptable. And then I
want to walk away. I don’t ever want to
talk to him again. I don’t think he remem-
bers that night and thinks, ‘I raped that
girl.’ I’m sure he doesn’t put that label on
it. He probably thinks it was a drimken
night gone wrong. Maybe not eye." that.
Who knows?

The worst thing is, I don’t remember.
Maybe I’m lucky, I don’t know how it felt,
physically, you know. It’s so ﬁustrating that
I can’t remember exactly what happened.
People told me we had sex. I woke up with-
out my clothes ori. I can’t ignore the fact
that it happened.

I’d never been to a psychologist. I went
011 my lunch hour and I start bawling cry-
ing, couldn’t go back to work. She said its
so common, that it happens to so many
young women. Society makes women into
the guilty party. We have to accuse the
men; they become ‘the victims’ and every-

hard year for one is second-
me. Peopletalk ‘ C guessing and judg-
about how in ou.
much fun It ’s not enough what gals Such a
freshman year they did 1'-Or U3 f 1? eshman fu**ed-up system.
was. I think: year. Looking back on We’ve been raised
“Oh, my bad that thing We Went to, to make ourselves
year.” Ididn’t the video on rape we desirable to men.
care about any— , , ' Men are raised in a
thing. Ididn’t were -7 Oklng around the subtle way so that
care about my- W110-7-9 time - This 1511 ' t its okay for them to
self. Atall. Ilet going to happen to us. look at us like ob-
myselfgo, with Wt. j u S t were no t jectsl Now tk have
an one. . . eo e to ta to.
yOne of my thinking’ It happened p lpalways wonder
friendscame to to me tha t week ’ if I am the only one
me about the , 7 who was raped by
drinking - Scott. I wonder if

which was about half the problem. But I
didn’t think anything was wrong. C‘mon

        

there is something I could have done to
have stopped it if I wasn’t.

 

    

PAGE 6 FEBRUARY 2, 1997

  news
Norval warns of new threats

Third World, will increase competition for scarce re-

STAFF WRITER sources. Norval predicted that would lead to mass mi-
What should we do with terrorists? “Hunt ‘em down grations, which heighten ethnic tensions, and to wars
and kill ‘em like rabid dogs,” Morgan Norval advised, between countries over dwindling resources. And the
not entirely joking. United States is equally at risk. “When there’s nothing

CQTQIFC

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 7

academic performance of a pledge. 2. No
pledge activities except community service
projects may be scheduled to occur outside
the Lexington city limits. 3. Pledge activities

GENERAL NOTES

DUPONT TO HOST TALK BY SCHAPIRO

BY SARAH MELDRUM

An opening reception and talk by exhibiting artist Miriam Schapiro

will be held in the duPont Gallery on Tuesday, Feb. 10 at 8 p.m. The
public is invited to attend.

“A Seamless Life,” works by Schapiro from 1961 to 1966 are currently
on exhibit in the duPontGallery until March 31. Gallery hours are Mon-
day through Friday, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Admission is free.

Schapiro will be spending three days on the W&L campus where she
will be visiting art classes in addition to presenting the public lecture in
conjunction with the reception for the exhibit on Tuesday.

Her visit to the university is being sponsored by the department of
ﬁne arts, the Glasgow Endowment Program, the visiting lecturers com-
mittee and endowments from the W&L Classes of ’63 and ’65.

EMINENT HISTORIAN TO LECTURE

Dr. Eugene D. Genovese will lecture at the Lenfest Center on
Wednesday, Feb. 1 l at 7:30 p.m. He will talk about his new book, A
Consuming Fire: The White Christian Response to the Fall of the
Confederacy, which focuses on how white Southerners came to
terms with their defeat through religion.

Dr. Genovese is the president of the Historical Society and the
retired scholar-in-residence of the Atlanta University Center. This
lecture is sponsored by The Contact Committee. Admission is free
and the public is invited to attend.

CHORAL GROUPS’ PRESENT
“SCIENCE CENTER SERENADE”

The Great Hall of W&L’s new Science Center will be the setting for an
evening of choral music presented by the university’s choral groups on
Thursday, Feb. 12 at 8:00 p.m. The public is invited to attend.

Renaissance music, as well as pieces from other various period
that were written to be performed in large cathedrals, will be offered
by the University Chamber Singers, directed by Gordon Spice, and
the University Chorus, directed by Scott Williamson and accompa-
nied by Joshua Harvey.

The groups will combine under the direction of gues conductor
Donald Nally to perform pieces by Mendelssohn, Schtltz, Barber, Beibl,
and Lauridsen. The ensembles will oﬁer a program of song that span
ﬁve centuries, from the 15th to the 20th centuries, that take advantage
of the acoustical properties of the science building’s Great Hall.

The “Science Center Serenade” is presented by W&L’s department
of music.

are only pennitted between the hours of 7 a.m.
and 10 p.m. 4. Pledge activities other than
study hall shall be permitted only on one night
during the academic week, Sunday through
Thursday. 5. A chapter will not ask pledges
to spend more than four hours total during
the academic week or ﬁve hours on a week-
end engaged in pledge or initiation activities.
Before the start of the pledgeship period,
all fraternities are required to submit pledge
education programs to the IFC Judicial Board.
These programs, which list the schedule of
pledge activities and the goals of pledgeship,

and social disorder.”

Norval, who spent ten years in southern Africa ﬁght- to lose, there’s nothing to fear,” he said.
ing terrorism, spoke Tuesday evening as part of
Contact’s Captive Nations Week.

He said the new world order is bringing new terror-
ists threats. “The world is more volatile, more uncertain
than it was in the Cold War.” He said former communist
nations are now afﬂicted by “debilitating fear, chaos,

are subject to approval by the Dean of Greek
Affairs. All ﬁfteen fratemity presidents and
pledge trainers have put signiﬁcant amounts
of time and effort into designing programs
which adhere to all of the above regulations.
Fraternity presidents have also shown posi-
tive initiative in voting to end all pledgeship
activity one week early this year. By March
22. 1998. all pledgeship nrograms must be
completed and all pledges must be initiated.
Activities such as the compelled consump-
tion of alcoholic beverages, physical abuse, sleep
deprivation, paddling, and other aixivities deemed
ashazing will inno waybetolerated Individuals!
suspected ofhazing will be referred to the Stu-
dentAffairs Committee Hearing Board and will
face possible suspension or expulsion. These
individuals may face criminal charges as well.
An effective pledgeship period depends
upon cooperation between three elements
in a fratemity: the fratemity leadership, the ‘
brotherhood, and the pledges. Washington
and Lee’s fraternity leaders have designed
ﬁﬁeen safe and effective pledgeship pro-
grams. Brothers in every house must ad-
here strictly to these programs when con-
ducting pledgeship activities. Pledges must
understand the general regulations for gov-
erning pledgeship and not tolerate hazing.

Would you like to work at a
Wyoming Guest Ranch this summer?

The A-Bar-A Guest Ranch is on 140,000 private acres of southern Wyoming,
surrounded by national forest and wilderness area. We have openings in all
areas of guest services. If you are available from early June to late August or
the end of September, we would like to talk with you about the possibility of
working with us this summer. The manager, Bob Howe, will be interviewing
on campus February 2. To arrange an interview or get an application check
at the Careers Ofﬁce. Or, check us out on—line and get an application at:
www.coolworks.com/a-bar-a/defaulthtm Questions? Call (303) 838-1950 or
email us at: abararanch@aol. com.

\ He warned that the United States is not adequately
prepared to ﬁght small groups of terrorists, which have
gained increasing military effectiveness. Some even
possess weapons of mass destruction, and are prepared
to use them. He pointed to the Tokyo subway attack by
Aum Shinri Kyo, the Supreme Truth Sect, which re-
leased sarin nerve gas on ﬁve subway trains on March

The rise of the information superhighway, while mak- 20, 1995, killing 1 1 and hurting about 5,500.
ing it possible for nations of the world to communicate
and work together, has facilitated the dissemination of
propaganda by terrorist groups.

Norval said that even though the United States has
the most efﬁcient military in the world, its unprepared
response to such attacks would be like the “redcoats”
The rapidly expanding population, especially of the marching through the forests of North America.

— Compiled by Heather McDonald

Sincerely, ,

A rue ARMY CAN HELP YOU
GETA silo ooo EDGE ..
on COl.LEGE.

The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to
$40,000 for college through the Montgomery GI Bill plus the Army
 ‘ College Fund. V
Here’s how it works. Enlist
for four years. You then con-

Counselors wanted for residential

summer program at UVA for gifted

students 6/2.8-8/8/98. State of VA

application required - refer to Job
Category Code Q18AB £9” return to UVA
by 5:00 pm 5/1/98. Apply to UVA Dept.

_ of Human Resources, 914 Emmet St., PO

Nutrution workshop

BY ERICA PROssi=.R

STAFF WRITER

Students who don’t know the ﬁrst thing about eating healthy may learn something
Thursday night.

The Lifestyle Information For Everyone Wellness Group is sponsoring a nutrition
lecture and cooking demonstration at 7 p.m. in the dining area of the Delta Tau Delta

  
   

House. Admission is free, and the Washington and Lee community is welcome. BOX 9007 ’ Charlotesvﬂle VA 22906‘ For tribute $100 a month for the
“This is for busy college students,” said Wellness Group Chairwoman Cathy Moore. information about application Process ﬁrst Year ﬁ”0H1 YOUF 311,100
“There will be snacks afterwards and a booklet handout as a follow-up.” can 804/924-3 1 82_ EEO/AA ﬁrst Year S31a1'Y- The Army V

The session will be led by L.I.F.E. members, and the cooking demo and health tips the“ Contributes the remain’

der. Enlist for three years and

   

  

    

will target nutrition and proper eating among students. $33 000 E f
L.I.F.E. members came up with the idea while brainstorming ideas for a new you Cam ’ or en St or
CU  two years and earn $26,500.
program. - .
“ _ ” _ _ _ g V . Army opportunities get I
We always do things on substance abuse, etc., said Moore. She said that nutri- - ‘ are better every day. Ifyou
tion programs are almost never done, but that they are still very important to health. 6‘ qualify, you could train in one of over 200 challenging and reward-
If L.l.F.E. gets positive feedback on this program, Moore said that the group will ing high—tech skills in ﬁelds like avionics and electronics, satellites
consider expanding with more lectures and demonstrations. Until then, healthy cook- 6101  and microwave communications, computer and radar operations-
ing is just a free seminar away. ° 0 0 just t0 ﬂame 3 f6W. ii
9 EON It makes sense to earn while you learn. For more information
m m . Om 75 mmdmd mums ‘ about getting money for college, call your Army Recruiter today.
C 0 French Immersion Pro rain The Crystal Tower Building
m . 9 Fine Arts Program 3 1 31 West Campbell Avenue  7  _ 8 8 6- 2 6 5 I ® 1
0-  ran . '$:;"1;°:i;h;::::f;':md g¢.:1or;o|3(:;Vi2|'4g;r(1’ia 24011 ENCE  WWAW%o%rnY}’gnI"  BE:
-LIL‘: ursions  ' '
H I 0 Cultural Ex:
 For more infbrmatio call or write:
.-m  g The American Uniiriersity of Paris _ 7
’::': Summer Programs, Box S-2000 ' . .
L - 0 102 rue St. Dominique  G S ‘N h
  o gm ;;i,.,-5;; ,, mm  mm W emester in as in ton
 '2 I Fa: 83/1; 4062 07 17 ENVELOBE STUFFlNG — $600 - S800 every week . . . i
Q ' L; NcwYork°$ce:Te|.(212)983_1414 Free DemI|==5.A'5;r:<:naﬁ°na‘|nc. An lliiilcrgrailiiatc Progra in in Political i'\lallJgCll1L‘l1t ,
 1375 Coney Island Ave. . ‘ ,
,»;:. i_::2 ‘9 Web Si[C— i...,,.//..m..,,.i. B'°°*<'vn- New York 11230 Spring, Suniincr, and Fall Sessions
‘_ F.-mail - Summer@aup.fr » ~ »
>~
11 (1 Make Connections to
S ummer l O17 S at  as lngton an Lee Launch Your Career
Counselors for Summer Scholars . _ . ‘
July 5-31,1998 9 Now Accepting Applications
Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program for 140 I‘lSlI(1lg high On A Rolling Admissions Basis 3
school seniors. Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10.stu. ents in Apply Now!
Graham—Lees dormitory and plan evening and week-end act1V1t1eS.
Application deadline IS February 24, 1998 session Deadlines,
$
. . - - Summ —M h 31,1998
Special Programs Resident Assistants °' 3"’
J 18 August 5 1998 F“"“"""° 1' 1993
IIIIB - 9
The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L students to seric/le as i
Resident Assistants for a wide variety of Special Programs me u ing Ther The Graduate
Alumni Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include 1&6 n School of I A _ - ~ .
housekeeping, attending all meals with guests, bar receptions, and shuttle nlvergggl polmcag )1
. . . . . t. wAsuiN0i0~4 og anagefnen
dnV1ng' An Outgolng perSOna1l£:It3,p;lS_(/‘:;‘:1_01’l’lS dea dline’ March 15, 1998 GW isan equal opportunity/aliirinalive action insliluiion
For More Information, And To Receive An Application, Contact: -g’ ‘A H _, _. 9,
For further information, please contact the Office of Special Programs, lsool 367r:l4,7_7A6, (2,02)A99l.4-6:000 l1l'lp.://www.gwu.eclu/~gs‘pm .
Howard House, 463_8723 o.yv ccepiing pp lCOllOl'l5 On A Rolling Admissions Basis. -

 

  

lit reﬂect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

   ion
orial

FEB 2, 1998

PAGE 7

‘Time for another action
to be single sanction

During the year that it took for the Phi to put
together the Campus Rape package on pages four
and five, one point kept coming up. Why is rape
not considered a single-sanction offense‘?

‘l There are rumors ofa petition to make rape a
single-sanction offense at Washington and Lee. If
these rumors are true, this newspaper is behind
that petition 100 percent.

at The national statistics are frightening. Thirty-

five percent of college men would rape a woman

ifthey could get away with it. One in every six

women at this University will be raped. One in
; four will have rape attempted.

Honor is the cornerstone ofthis institution. It
is one ofthe main reasons that many of us chose
W&L as the place to continue our education.

3 While gaining book knowledge, we would also
I learn how to live honorably and become better
members of society.

Theft of material items is minor —— those
things in life can be replaced easily. Cheating in
class is wrong, but also relatively minor com-
pared to the life-long trauma of rape.

If the Executive Committee is correct in

, saying that there is no degree to honor, then why
is rape still something for which an individual
receives only social probation?

Not only is rape the theft of everything women
hold dear, trust, hope, and control, but it is an

3 outright lie by the perpetrator to deny that he
committed the act. Is raping a woman really
behaving like a gentleman?

It is time to move the honor system from its
rigid, academically-based foundation. Ifwe are
to learn to be “gentlemen” (in Robert E. Lee’s
eyes), how can we allow such amazing social
wrongs to continue at this school? The honor

,‘ system needs to be expanded to include all

aspects of W&L life. _

Lee was a progressive. He would have loved to
see women at his school. He would be appalled
to know that a W&L man would rape any woman

I and receive only probation.

To be honorable, this campus needs to recog-
nize that this is happening. To be honorable,
fraternity brothers should turn each other in for

'1 rape. To be honorable, this school needs to stop
denying that this happens.

There is no honor violation that anyone at this
school could commit that would be more severe.

“' cc r””““.
  uote of the week:

 

“Cow-tipping is better than sex..”

V.
~— Anonymous
4
Elli ii‘ 1 lﬂlf
Executive Editors Courtney Miller
‘V Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Will Hardie
4 Heather McDonald
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
j Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz
D
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and

4.

subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
5 Submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not

Advertising does not reflect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

,( The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
3' E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

  
  

Stiff competition for White House internships

For this week’s Looney Bin I’ll be discussing the
latest presidential sex scandal, partly because it’s an is-
sue that a lot of people are talking about, but mostly
because I can’t think of a single original topic (like that’s
stopped me before...). -.

Now there are probably four or five of you out there
who think that Clinton didn’t do it. Well, this is the
opinion page, which means we’re not constrained by
the facts.

We go by my opinion, and my personal opinion is
that it’s really irrelevant whether or not he did it. The
whole thing makes for damned good comic material,
and comedy is more important than truth, so I say let
the oral sex innuendos commence.

 Looney Bin

Sure, Clinton has really blown it. His political ca-
reer is going down. It’s going to be hard for him to
come up with a rock solid alibi. Yet as much as this
scandal must suck for Bill, the media is practically hav-
ing an orgasm over the story.

I for one think that the media is completely off the
mark. They’re focusing on aspects of the scandal that
no one cares about —- such as the possibility that El
Presidente may be impeached.

Look, John Q. Multinationalmediaconglomerate, most
Americans haven’t the foggiest idea what impeachment is.
They can’t even spell impeachment. So keep your 25 cent
fancy book—leamin’ words to yourselves and just stick to
the basics: who, what, where, how many times a night, and
in which positions. '

The media should focus on the shame and outrage all
Americans feel dc to the simple

stand. Admit it, fellas. If we talk about this subject in mixed
company we’ ll all come down very harshly on Bill. “Oh, no,
infidelity is monstrous! Impeach him!” But deep down, we
all know we would have done the exact same thing if we had
a powerful political office, a wife that was out of town, and
an intern ready and willing to go for it.

 

-1

I’m sorry, ladies, but there’s something buried deep within 
the male psyche that will 1

fact that Monica Lewinski is
not remotely attractivel

She’s the kind of girl that
friends probably try to set up
with blind dates using the line,
“well, she’s got a great person-
ality.” As an American in good

You see, when a man gets aroused and
the blood rushes into Mr. Happy, it ’s
arriving from a tube connected
straight to the brain.

Hugh Grant syndrome —

standing, I find it disgraceful
that the most powerful man in
the world (next tot Bill Gates
and maybe Dean Manning) can’t find a better looking
woman to cheat with. I mean, Paula Jones was no prize
either, but now 01’ Billy Boy’s really scraping the bottom
of the nasty barrel. ,

Perhaps I shouldn’t be so critical. I suppose if I was
from Arkansas my standards wouldn’t be all that high ei-
ther. “Hey, at least she’s not my cousin” was probably the
only concern on Slick Willie’s mind as he unzipped his
trousers and began polling the constituents.

I must confess, though, that being a guy, I can under-

I5 Minutes of Shame

Tmwics F011 TGHNO T“?-
V", wqrg, HDUSE Thori-
HER-6,5 Yoga QFFICIAL.
Pen,’ AAQQ’ PHOTO. 
Pi2esioe~rmi. I<N55\°'*°5-

Fornigate

‘Camaraderie of the Doomed’

Crisis brings people together. True story:

A few weeks ago, everything was scheduled for Fri-
day. A Computer Science 312 project and a CS 211
project were both due that day. A multivariable calcu-
lus test and a geology test were lined up for noon and 1
o’clock, both on Friday.

 “Red Brick Row
‘“° 4;” “ David Balsley 99

I knew that I should have worked harder earlier in
the week to get everything done — or even better, the
week before, or possibly sometime during F all semes-
ter. 1 had worked hard and put in a lot of hours. Had I
worked even more, though, I would not have had so
much left to finish, I told myself. But there I was, on
Thursday night, with two unﬁnished projects left to do.

Time was running out. It was the type of situation
which makes you think, when Joe So-and-So dropped
out for a semester, they knew what they were doing.

I ate dinner, then dutifully marched to the Science
Building about 6:30 p.m. I gathered my books, a pen,
some paper and my last dying conviction that every-
thing would be alright. It was going to be a long evening.

A dozen other people had beat me there. When I sat
down to get to work, I sat down among a crowd of
people, all racing to ﬁnish the same work I was about to

 

“Never eat yellow snow.”

—— Keenan Weston ’01

l

“I stepped into a ig pi e ofsnow,
my foot sunk in, and llcouldn’t
find my shoe!

— Junko Ota, exhange student

do. They were quiet and anxious, as though they all ex-
pected to have long e . enings, too.

Then a funny thing happened. I’m not sure what it was,
but it could be called the Camaraderie of the Doomed.

Someone joked about how much work he had to do.
Someone else said there was no way she would get to bed
that night. A third said he would not only stay up all night,
but probably fail anyway as well.

Soon there was a chorus of people all talking about how
much they had to do and how little time they had to do it
and how they had promised themselves that this semester
would not be this way but already it was and so on.

We worked, moaned, worked, bitched, worked, com-
plained. All in all, if we had worked as much as we com-
plained, we would have finished twice the work in half the
time. We whined anyway. The amount of work I had to do
still frightened me. But somehow it seemed funny. It was
amusing that 1 could not have finished everything that night,
no matter what I did. It was comic that I was desperate.

Realizing that other people were in the same boat that I
was, and complaining with them that the boat was sinking,
helped me to make light of a bad situation. We seemed to
band together in our hopelessness. We were doomed, but
we were doomed together.

We worked well into the night, laughing and complain-
ing and carrying on, even though we should have cried —
the Camaraderie of the Doomed.

'..""Q‘-'

  

 

patch of snow.”

 

“When Ashley Mar-ano raced for
‘shotgun’ and wiped out on a

— Haley Hall ’oo

77

which can temporarily im-

cause us to throw away ev- I
erything for a quick lick to 
the [expletive deleted]. It 3
seems that the Y chromo- 
some carries with it a certain :
genetic deficiency —— called 1

pair reasoning functions. ;
(This opposed to women, '

who simply have no reasoning functions).

You see, when a man gets aroused and the blood rushes 1
into Mr. Happy, it’s arriving from a tube connected straight L
to the brain. Without this blood, the brain starts forgetting 
little details, like “you’re not my wife” or “you’re not attrac- «
tive” or “you’re my adopted daughter” (Woody Allen syn- ,

drome).

Bill has got to learn to veto his hormones. If he doesn’t, 3
his political career is going to bite the big one. Much like

Monica did...

More fun than
Jerry Springer

I realize that loyal readers of this column have come to
expect Swensen on a soapbox, tilting at various windmills
on campus with my mix of sarcasm and idealism.

In a move that I’m sure will greatly sadden all of you,

I am on no great moral crusade this week. Instead of '

asking you to change deeply held beliefs and attitudes, I
just want you to see a play this weekend.

 

I’ll admit it: I am no great patron of the arts. While it
doesn’t fill me with pride to say this, college basketball,
“Must See TV” on NBC, the Jerry Springer show and the
Friday night movies on Cinemax are generally higher on
my viewing list than the average theater production.

Of course, this is no average theatreproduction. First
and foremost, my friend Cassie Ritter is starring in the
play, a comedy by Beth Henley entitled “Crimes of the
Heart.” At the very least, she’s featured on the poster that
has been plastered all around campus (that’s her on the

« far left of the poster). ' ~ - :~

She asked me to plug her play in my column, expect-
ing only a few sentences at the end. Little did she know
her request would give me an excuse not to think of an
actual column topic this week. When I called her to say I
was stopping by her room for an interview, her reaction
was something along the lines of, “You’re doing what?”
Once I got there, she warmed up to the task. Slightly.

It turns out that this play has many of the elements I
enjoy in the Jerry Springer show. For example, Cassie’s
character, Babe Magrath, is beaten by her husbai.d, whom
she later shoots. Meanwhile, Babe, who is 24, is having
an affair with a 15-year-old and attempts to kill herself
twice, once by sticking her head in a gas oven. Appar-
ently, Babe and her two sisters have never gotten over the
death of their mother, who hanged herself in a closet 16
years ago — along with the family cat.

Now if that doesn’t sound like an episode of the Jerry
Springer show (minus the catfights, the burly security
guards and Springer’s “Final Thought”), I don’t know what
does. And that’s only one of the three sisters.

Unlike the Springer show, however, “Crimes of the
Heart” is actually well written; it won a Pulitzer Prize for
Literature in 1981.

Also, unlike Springer, the play is intentionally funny,
and every second word isn’t bleeped out.

Not actually having seen the play, I can’t promise that
it will be funny. However, I have been promised a slow
death if I don’t show up and watch the play at least once.
What better advertisement could you ask for than that?

1. Letters to the Ring-tum Phi

Pledgeship rules have been established by the IFC
Dear Ring-tum Phi,

With the start of winter term, the Interfratemity
Council wishes to help foster a better understanding of
the rules governing fraternity pledgeship. The general
regulations are clearly outlined in the 1997-98 Inter-
fratemity Council Constitution and are as follows: 1.
No pledging activities may take place in the dorrnito—
ries or dining hall. These activities cannot hinder the

(D SeeIFCpage6

What’s the strangest thing that’s ever happened to you in the snow?

    

 

 

I While snwboding, the fence w
holding on to gave way and I dragged
it all the way down the mountain."

— Jeff Wehner ’00

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8

By Alex Christensen

Phi Movie Critic

A little update to start off: “Titanic” still sucks. And
it’s about to beat “E.T.” to become the biggest-gross-
ing ﬁlm of all time, excluding re-release proﬁts. I’m OK
with that.

There is really an entertaining and thought-provok-
ing ﬁlm playing in town. Barry Levinson’s “Wag the
Dog,” adapted for the screen by David Mamet, has been

getting a lot of press lately with this whole Clinton

porn scandal or whatever that is.Ever since the story
broke, the box ofﬁce takings on “Wag the Dog” have
gone up and up, which never happens.

It seems the ﬁlm resembles real life a little too closely.
In fact, it is real life, in the sense that whetheror not it’s
true, it’s true enough that we can’t know just how true
it might really be. Catch my drift? I know it’s a bit ofa
brain-teaser, but nevertheless, as George Bush would
say. “Nevertheless.” That’s all he would say. Creepy.

In “Wag the Dog,” the President is just a few days
away from the election when a scandal breaks: a little
Fireﬂy girl accuses the President of taking liberties with
her in the Oval Ofﬁce. This, as we say, could be bad.
Who gets the call? Conrad Brean (Robert De Niro), a
shadowy political ﬁxer who immediately comes up with
the perfect plan. If the nation can be distracted by some-
thing really big, like a war, the President could coast
into his second term and then deal with all of the messy
sex stuff.

A war? That means we need an enemy, a theme song,
a backstory. Enter Stanley R. Motss (Dustin Hoffman),
a Hollywood producer who specializes in making prob-
lems go away. “This is nothing,” is his motto. Brean
hires Motss to produce the “pageant,” and the thing
kicks into high gear.

The idea of creating a war out ofthin air may seem
implausible for some, and that’s why the movie was
made. It’s not just a fantasy, as I said before. It’s the
way things work, with a dark, cynical, and hilarious
twist: this time it’s not “true.” Of course this raises the
question of what is really true about any media phe-

Salesman’
Strangelove’.”

nomenon, which is what
major news stories have be-
come in our day and age. (I
don’t like to think ofmyself
as a wacko conspiracy theo-
rist. In fact, I resent the way
that the press has turned
the very word “con-
spiracy,” which simply
means a scheme involving
more than one person, into
a code word for “crazy.” Anybody who believes a
scheme involving more than one person could exist and
affect the world is crazy? When did this become the
accepted wisdom?)

The point is, all the American people need to go
along with anything ~ a really spectacular murder, a
war, a re-election —— are full stomachs, a few compelling
images, and a plausible storyline. If we’ve got all that,

“|t’|| be

meets ‘Dr.

NEW LINE C mam PRODUCITONS

. Po Do‘
By Hy lg IastWordEditor

_ Lexington is, admittedly, a small place. The social
scene here is not exactly a hotbed of action. There are
fraternity parties, but if you’ve seen one, you’ve seen

pens like some drunk guy pulling a pipe down). If you
want to listen to a local radio station that doesn’t have
frequent Hank Williams Flashback Hours, _well, good
luck to you. Even the Phi’s own restaurant reviewers
ran out of local places to review in an embarrassingly
short period of time, and were forced to move on to
bigger towns.
A I was abruptly reminded of this when I passed ﬁve
Virginia Military Institute cadets returning home early
one recent Saturday night. Not that simply passing them
caused me to remember, but when one of them shouted
repeatedly, “I HATE THIS (choice ‘words deleted here
because we’re running a family show) PLACE!” and
proceeded to punch a sign with the silhouettes of Bob
and George on it, I began to wonder about the social
scene here. (We’ll ignore the potential issues of disre-
spect and childish displays of anger for the time being.)

There are several constants I’ve noticed in my short
time at Washington and Lee.

struggling sport utility vehicle industry, for one. The
amazing number of women with surnames as first names,
and men with roman numerals aﬁer theirs, for another.
That khaki thing. The disturbingly high proportion of
students’ time spent desperately typing in the computer
lab as opposed to sleeping. And the unanimous and
oft-repeated complaint that there is simply
nothing to do.

Nothing to do but complain about how there’s noth-
ing to do. It’s become ritual. I have lived in towns with

“I9 TICUBIR WITII WIIIIGIS

‘em all (unless something really cool and exciting hap- _

‘skills that are going to help us out in the real world. This

The university-wide trend toward supporting the .

populations ranging from under 500 to somewhere in
the millions. And though some might be hard pressed
to believe it, there were activities in that town of 500
that did not involve cow -tipping. But I have come to
the conclusion that kids will always complain about the
lack of stimulating activities available in their place of
residence. It doesn’t matter whether they speak from
New York city or the thriving metropolis of Lexington.
And this is precisely the problem with whiners. I
have to spend time I could be passing in any of the
soon-to-be-mentioned-funner—’n-heck ways listening to
them do what they do best. Don’t get me wrong, I my-
self am prone to complaining every once in a while. -
However the fact remains that we are priveleged enough
to be spending four years on one of the most beautiful _
campuses in the nation which, conveniently for our fu-
ture incomes, is also ranked eighth academically. We’re
learning (albeit at the cost of much blood and sweat)

ain’t state school anymore, Toto. «

W&L is certainly not a perfect place, nor am I tum-
ing a blind eye to its’ imprefections. There are not a
zillion exciting things happening every minute. But get
over it. It’s become tiresome. Really, go take a spin ir1
your (sport utility) vehicle, crank your (louder-than-God)
stereo system and drive around in a very (loudly) un-
spoken statement of how great it is to simply be (you).
Gosh, what I meant to say is there’s just nothing like a
nice Friday night game of (strip) Twister, accompanied
by (rum and) Coke and a lively intellectual discussion
(on the merits of your favorite Spice Girl). Or God forbid,
just go to sleep.

See? There’s always something to do, even in Lex.
And even if there’s not, don’t let on because who knows
what would happen if professors were to suspect that
we didn’t have enough to do?

Colonnade Club

I abitoi Hunor, Opiionand Reviews
last Word ,
WAG THE DOG: FICTION MIRRORING REALITY?_

The pitch:
like ‘Speed-the-Plow’

FEBRUARY 2, 1998

we don’t ask questions. There are still a few people out

there who get disturbed when things fall into place a ‘

little too well, but just let them stick their heads up, like
Hillary Rodham Clinton did on the “Today” show last
week, and look out. Everybody yells “Nut!” and that’s
the end of the inquiry.

We don’t want to hear that C C

of staff, Willie Nelson as a country impresario, William

H. Macy (of “Fargo”) as a CIA operative, Woody}

Harrelson as an American hero, and Denis Leary as the
on-top-of-everything Fad King. Just watching them talk
to each other is the chief pleasure of the ﬁlm. Listen
closely, you might miss
something. My favorite

there is a group of people —
maybe not the same people,
maybe not well organized,
maybe not permanent — but a
group of people that invents
our national life for us, and we

It seems that the ﬁlm resembles real
life a little too closely  with the
whole Clinton scandal going on.

“Jim Belushi is Albanian.”
A close second is De
Niro’s: “Well, you get
some time, you could read
7 9 the cover.” You can pick ‘i

really have no say except at the

ballot box, and who votes any more anyway? “Those booths

are so claustrophobic. I can’t vote in conﬁned spaces.”
Mamet and Levinson provide a quick, witty script,

which is memorably acted with impeccable timing by

Hoffman, De Niro, Anne Heche as the President’s chief

your own.

A special mention should be made of the music. The
film is practically a musical; the songs and Mark
Knopﬂer’s guitar score are characters of their own in a
way that is rare on ﬁlm today, but completely in context
in the story. It’s ajoy.

  

"“"""’evell

MONDAY 35¢ 11:30 a.m. Monotony broken
only by the latest scintillating issue of the Phi
13¢ TUl3DAY 15?? 7:30 p.m. “Music in Mus-
lim Lands” lecture in Science Center by Hugh
Blackmer, obscure music guru. 51¢ WEDNES-
DAY 51¢ 7:30 p.m. Lecture in Northen Audi-
torium : “The Problem of Biological Individu-
ality,” by Associate Professor Jack Wilson 3‘?
7:30 p.m. SAB presents hypnotist Tom Deluoca
in Doremus Gymnasium 91¢  AY 51¢
7:30 p.m. Class of ’62 lecture in Northen Au-

ditorium — “Britain 2000: The Millenium is ,.
the Message,” with Associate Professor Brian
R:bha1dson.¢I¢‘= FRIDAY #145 7:30 p.m. Film
Society presents “Pillow Book” at the Trouba-
dour. H4? 8 p.m. Theatre Series: “Crimes of the
Heart,” in Lenfest’s Johnson Theatre $145 Ger-
man Play: “Hin und Her,” (German with En-
glish synopsis provided) in Lenfest’s Keller
Theatre. iii SAB Concert, “The Voltage Broth-
ers” in the Pavilion. $14 Deep Banana Blackout
at Sigma Nu 91¢ Bomb-Ass Valentines Day DJ
Party at Phi Kap 1*? SATURDAY 31¢ 2 p.m.

Women’s Basketball vs. Lynchburg in the 

Warner Center iii? 7 :30 p.m. “Pillow Book” 15145
8 p.m. “Crimes of the Heart” in the Lenfest’s
Johnson Theatre 51¢ “Hin und Her” in the
Lenfest’s Keller Theatre 11¢ DJ Party at the In-
ternational House iii Right On! at Kappa Sig
5145 Uncle Mingo at Pika 35¢ Lambda Chi’s
Nuclear Waste Party, featuring Rarely Heard

The frightening reel’ of our ,

campus conspiracy

By Kathryn  Managing Editor

This week the Phi received an anonymous letter
from an individual who claims that the Washington
and Lee adminstration is behind a massive and elabo-
rate conspiracy. The author threw around terms like
“secretive” and “masterful puppeteers” but didn’_t
really seem to know or understand the intricacies
that are at the heart of the conspiracy.

As ajournalist at this school, I’d like to think that
I’ve found out a little more about this administration
in the past four years than the average student, and
feel that it is my duty to inform. I actually have been
investigating this very conspiracy for the better part
of two years, and now, in light of this illuminating
letter from this exceptional, if a bit confused, stu-
dent, I have ﬁnally decided to go public with my
research. (If you’ve ever spotted a woman dressed
in a brown bear costume, wearing infrared glasses,
lumbering around campus at 3 a.m., that was me in
my disguise.) A ~

Well, here’s what I found out:

From the minute that you received your accep-
tance letter in the mail, you have been an unwilling
participant in an elaborate conspiracy. Within days
of your happy news, several undercover W&L op-
eratives posed as high school students and attended
classes with you. They wore wrinkled khakis and
beer-stained blue blazers. They told you that you'd
be “the bomb” if you bought a hunter green Grand
Cherokee and stacked heel loafers. They bugged
your house and your phone, finding out all of your
pet peeves and matching you up with a roomate that
they know will drive you to drink and eat incessantly,

nes

resulting in an average 80-pound weight gain by the?‘
end of Fall Term. They knew this would arive you so
insane that you would have to join a fraternity to
escape.

They convince you that cash is bad, and that uni-j
versity card debit points are really good. Since most
people here charge it all home to Mummy and Daddy,
it’s no skin off your teeth to throw $100 on General
Debit. On Monday you go to the Co-op and buy one
Tootsie Roll and a mini-packet of Advil. On Tues-7
day you buy a bag of Milano cookies and some fro-
zen yogurt. On Wednesday you attempt to buy a
pack of cigarettes and the Co-op lady says, “Sorry,
you’re out of money. Stop by the business office.”
Enough said. 7

Then there’s BYOB. Seems like a nice way to get
us all to drink a little less. Oh, but it really couldn’t
be that simple, could it? In fact, BYOB is all an elabo-
rate conspiracy headed up by NAFTA to promote“
the Mexican Pot Growers Association and to ensure
that W&L students increase their weed intake.

Then there’s the University’s plan to build a stu-
dent center, a parking garage and sorority housing.
They subversively call it “The Master Plan.” Throughﬂ
many long nights of slinking around Lee House in a
B&G uniform, I have discovered that it is actually
President Elrod’s master plan to become master of
the universe.

Ifthis all seems really hard to believe, consider"
this. What is more probable, that hazing is a con-
spiracy headed up by the Cat—o-Nine Tails and Whips
Association of America or that Monica Lewinsky is
involved in a conspiracy run by radical conserva-yr
tives trying to ruin Bill Clinton’s pristine reputation?

By Holhster Hovey

 

0H— lW0N'T.13l/f
l Hlzvervweée

  
   
 

(F r-lf7;2ﬂP%?;g7. the
fines A-96614
TH«ﬁZE"‘7 N0 U/t’<V\
l wuw rtroe. 1
WAVE 1?» arm’
WWELFIUW A’lPr  
Li-it/%AcoA@ui'FI“ l
’liva$ra'Lt 136 Nb
éoov-uvoevtz tx/IE’)

line is Willie Nelson’s: ,

 

