A Tc/lo

‘_ JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBHAHV
5 371. . 76:.»

A/ASHlN_GTON 8: LEE UNIVERSII‘,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Q 55 "2. 
* \ r  ..r
‘ :4); i5‘
Phi Seniors’ Mayumik Skank against 0) Men’s lacrosse upsets
4 and Swensen, give racism; Ska festival |_ Roanoke in (311 Menas
good nddance to the In Norfolk CE tennis claims third place at
! paper. Harrrsonburg and O W&L InVitatiOna1_
Washington D.C. n-
PAGE 2 PAGE 3 (D PAGE 4
at
"' 0 0 
Y       j       Lexington. ‘Va.
Washington and Lee University l ‘ Monday
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 19 MARCH 30, 1998

‘Save the trees

is

 

BAMBI ENJOYS the woods that some feel are doomed by the Master Plan.

XSAB stands behind
«band, money choices

BY GINGER PHILLIPS
—-———————-—- STAFF WRITER

«{ As the legend goes, “REM”, once

played at Washington and Lee’s Fancy
Dress. Every year people talk about the
what ifs and the maybes and the “I will
deﬁnitely go ifs.”

: This year, the big names thrown
around the colonnade included, “The
Mighty Mighty Boss Tones”, “Black
Crowes” and the “Beastie Boys.” Real-
ity? The “Violent Femmes.”

‘=’ The SAB sold around 1300 of the

I 800 tickets, said Philippe Barret, SAB
treasurer. Although the concert did not
sell out, Wes Armstrong, SAB president,

,, said the percentage of W&L students

‘ was greater than in years past.
In the past four years, only Coolio
and “Widespread Panic” have played
to sold out crowds at the Student Pavil-

"l ion. Amistrong attributes this sell out

to the purchase of tickets by local resi-
dents and high school students.
Despite the recent wave of criticism

Q the SAB has received, Chris Noland,

vice-president of entertainment, feels
the interests of the student body are at
the heart of its decisions and existence.

The SAB encourages any unsatis-

'4 ﬁed student to become personally in-

volved with the SAB in the following
years. The current board consists of 62
members who vote on the band choice.
This year their choices included Bruce

Homsby and the “Gibb Droll Band.”

According to Noland, more than 35
bands were considered based on price
and availability. Some bands like “Wide-
spread Panic” were out of the country
during the week of FD. Barret said the
SAB looks to spend between $30,000
and $50,000 on an FD band.

At a total cost of $30,000, the “Vio-
lent Femmes” were cheaper than Coolio
or “Widespread Panic.” Top dollar
bands like the “Beastie Boys” are too
expensive.

The SAB is funded by the Execu-
tive Committee through student ac-
tivity fees. Of the $135 fee each stu-
dent pays, about 25 percent of that or
$34 goes to SAB. Armstrong says the
SAB spends every cent it is allocated
each year. Generally students pay be-
tween $10-12 for tickets to the “big”
concerts of the year: Homecoming,
Christmas Weekend and FD. The SAB
also funded hypnotist Tom Deluca in
February and the band “Right On”
during freshman orientation.

“We ﬁgure if the EC gives it to us
we should spend it,” Armstrong said.

The SAB is in good financial
shape. It is trying to put together
some Spring Term concerts and it will
put money into the Buffalo Creek
Music Festival this year as it has in
years past.

Courtney Miller contributed to this article

Students support
car, not bikeculture

BY WILL HARDIE
—-——--—?-News EDITOR
en President John Elrod
first arrived at Washington
and Lee, he asked Facilities
Planning Coordinator Frank Parsons
why there were so few bicycle racks
on campus.

“I said to him, ‘it’s hard to park a
BMW in a bicycle rack,’” said Parsons.

A student on a bicycle is still a rare
sight at W&L, a fact that vexes Uni-
versity planners working on the long-
temr development master plan.

“If more students would ride their
bikes instead of driving their sport-
utility vehicles, it would solve a lot
of our traffic problems,” said Par-
sons, who is known in University
planning circles as “The Parking Czar.”

The master plan mentions cy-
cling, but proposes no changes to
encourage it.

“Although the campus is gener-
ally compact and conducive to bi-
cycle transportation, very little use
appears to be made of bikes on cam-
pus,” the document reads. “There

_ is a bike rack at Graham Lees Donni-

tory which gets good use, but stu-
dents are seldom seen on bikes!”
Parsons said that many students
use their cars for unnecessarily
short journeys, such as from
Davidson Park fraternities to the
“Corral” parking lot on Jefferson
Street. Such journeys could easily
be made by bicycle, saving parking
spaces and easing road congestion.

“It ought to be an idea that would
occur to students who are as smart as
they are suppose to be here,” Parsons
said. “The ultimate human quest to-
day is not a cure for cancer or world
peace or getting to Mars, it is for the
parking place of ultimate proximity.”

Senior Brian Fobi shipped his bi-
cycle to W&L from Oregon three
years ago, but still has not ridden it
in Lexington. Although W&L’s ge-
ography might be conducive to cy-
cling, he said that the attitudes of
its students are not.

“It’s a car culture,” he said.
“They think riding bikes is a high-
school thing.”

Parsons agrees that social mores
make all the difference, and added

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
e—MANAcINo EDITOR

Junior Rhett Stook, an avid
outdoorsman and a member of the Out-
ing Club, stood on top of Jump Moun-
tain Saturday, looking out over the ter-
rain of the Lexington area.

One of the main reasons that Stook
came to Washington and Lee was to
take advantage of the outdoors. As he
soaked up the view, Stook wondered if
the several million dollars worth of ad-
ditions to W&L, which will be added in
the next several years, will be visable some-
day from the peak of the mountain.

He, and other members of the
Outing Club, feel that the master
plan, especially plans to build a new
baseball. field between the pavilion
and the law school parking lot, will
encroach on the community’s enjoy-

ment of the landscape.

“I feel that the woods in that area are
a valuable resource to W&L and the
Lexington community,” said Stook.

Stock is also concerned that the con-
struction will affect the trails in that area.

“I spend a lot of time back there moun-
tain biking,” Stook said.

However, President Elrod be-
lieves that Outing Club’s concerns
are “ill founded” and the new base-
ball field and other projects will not
affect the trails.

“The stand of trees in that area where
the trails are will not be removed,” Elrod
said. “The wooded sight line will remain.”

However, Elrod does admit that the
woods where the baseball field will be
built will have to be cleared.

“But, to my knowledge, the baseball
ﬁeld will not affect the trails in any way,”
Elrod said.

Coordinator of Facilities Planning,
Frank Parsons, said “ he didn’t know” if
the trails would be affected.

“But I do know that this school needs
a new baseball field, .and that is very
important to the atheltic program,” said
Parsons. “And there are trails that cross
that area where the baseball field will be
built I think if the Outing Club is con-
cerned about the removal of the trails,
they should meet with us and suggest
where we can build new ones.”

Parsons said it is unfortunate that
trees need to be cut down, but says that
this is a necessary step toward improv-
ing the university.

“Sometimes its impractical to put a
lot of money into saving trees when the
trees end up having to be taken down
anyway,” said Parsons said.

Many of the trees, like the ones on
the sorority house site, are old and

, says outing club

rotting and ready to come down any-
way, Parsons said.

“Those pine trees by the
pavillion are only there because
they were planted by the university
in the first place  And those trails
haven’t been there since the Indi-
ans either.”

Nonetheless, Stook feels that the
master plan is an omen of doom for
W&L’s landscape.

“I foresee this campus expanding
into the woods even more as the
years go on,” he said. “Before you
know it, nothing will be left.”

Stephanie Miller, a member of the
Outing Club, agrees.

“It is just a valuable resource,”
Miller said. “Chances are, the deple-
tion of that resource will continue,
and it seems like such a shame to
lose that.”

W E HAVE  ll\l A  Senior Bill Warnock vivaciously leaps for his “sock ball, " as senior Reed Deupree looks

on. Many students took advantage of the 85 degree weather this weekend Hollister Hovey/Photo Editor

that students’ tastes can be fickle.

“If more people [started cycling],
all of a sudden it would become the in
thing to do,” he said.

Because bicycle racks are already
available and parking spaces are
scarce, there is little more that the
University can do to encourage cy-
cling. Parsons said that the admin-
istration would be reluctant to try
to coerce students away from their
cars, because such a move would
be unpopular and would draw accu-
sations of authoritarianism, cur-
rently a sensitive issue.

Though cycling is healthier than
driving, Parsons said that some may
be put off by the risk of an accident.

“Riding a bike in Lexington can be
adventurous in terms of personal
safety,” he said.

Lexington’s roads are narrow and
often lined with parked cars, and its
drivers are not always attentive to cy-
clists, he said.

“Even if half of students started
cycling and the other half stick with
cars, ifthey kept going at the speed
they do now, there would still be a
problem.

“Nothing would be more pleas-
ant than if more students would
ride bicycles, but I don’t know the
magic words that would make them
do it.”

Delt house, a very, very
fine house, residents say

BY CHRSTINA JULLIAN
—j—————- STAFF WRITER

What happens when you put 18
girls from four different sororities
in one house? Not what most
would expect.

In its first year as a residence
facility, the former Delta Tau Delta
House has proven to be a success.
The house provides a unique
housing opportunity for sorority
members while serving as an al-
ternative to Gaines Hall or Woods
Creek.

“The Delt House is used pri-
marily as a residence facility, but
it also holds sorority functions,”
said Sarah McCrone, Panhellenic
president. Currently 18 women
from four sororities occupy the
house.

Although Kappa Kappa
Gamma’s national charter prohib-
ited them from living there this
year, but several Kappas will live
in the Delt House next year.

The women in the house now
have enjoyed the luxuries it af-

fords. Elizabeth Harvey, sopho-
more KD, said, “The Delt House
is really awesome, and I think it’s
even better than the frats. Every-
thing is new and the house pro-
vides many amenities. It’sjust like
being at home.”

The house has a living room,
breakfast room, kitchen, and TV
room for its residents. Harvey be-
lieves that it far surpasses Gaines.

Some people think that those in
the Delt House are isolated, but
Harvey disagreed.

“We are actually less isolated
than you might think. We get to
live with about 20 others whereas
those in Gaines live in much
smaller groups.”

Harvey also noted that as a
special bonus they are able to
mingle when sororities have func-
tions downstairs.

Because the Delt House has
been so successful, many fresh-
men were eager to live in it next
year. Any interested sorority mem-
ber turned in her name to her so-

rority representative on the
Panhellenic Council, and lots were
drawn to see who the lucky
women would be.

Georgianna Hickam, a freshmen
Chi Omega, was pleased with the
results.

_ “It looks like we’re going to
have a great group of girls in the
house next year. I’m looking for-
ward to becoming friends with
women from other sororities.”

Sarah Riggs, a freshmen Kappa,
is also excited about meeting other
women.

“The Delt House might serve in
breaking barriers between the sorori-
ties. We’ll have a great opportunity
to interact with people we may oth-
erwise never know.” Riggs decided
to live in the Delt House because of
its accommodations.

“Since our class won’t have a
chance to live in sorority houses,
the Delt House will provide the
type ofcamaraderie found in a so-
rority house,” Riggs said. “It will
be a very beneficial experience.”

 

 

PAGE 2

Don’t you ever wish
you could have been
Eric Swensen?

I wish I was Eric Swensen. I wish I was Kevin
McManemin. Heck, sometimes I wish I was Jackie
Terrebone.

I’ve been an editor on the Phi since spring term of
last year, and in that time, I’ve had to bite my glib lip
and hold my opinionated tongue every time the Phi
received a letter about how much I suck or how much
the paper sucks in general. I hold great envy for those

""'<E"“' “““““““““““““““““““ “

,f:°"l?i”or,r1 the P121’ Throne

  

student journalists, like Swensen, McManemin and
Terrebone who are able to vent their opinions to the
entire campus each week. This has not been a luxury
that I have been allowed to enjoy.

There are certainly other luxuries that I haven’t
enjoyed as managing editor of the Phi. Sleep, prob-
ably being the number one luxury (yes, sleep is a
luxury, not a need) and possibly my sanity. Because
even when you are reading the paper at dinner, and
you point and mock at the misspelled word on the front
page, I was up until 5 a.m. in the morning, trying my
best to make sure that didn’t happen. For all of those
mistakes, I apologize. The last thing I wanted was to
cause anyone any indigestion.

This is my last week as managing editor . (Don’t
all breath a sigh of relief now.) My last week of writ-
ing articles that are likely to piss people off. My last
week of eating three times my weight every Sunday to
stay awake. My last week of missing the X-files Sun-
day night.

And like Swensen, I’d like to thank a few people.
(Eeee, gads, this sounds like the Academy Awards.)

To the graduating Phi staff: I have seen you at your
best, and at your worst, but I truly believe that these
have been some of our ﬁnest hours.

To the Virginia Military Institute cadets: thank you
for all of the interesting material you have provided
us this year. If you weren’t doin’ the nasty under bed-
room furniture, you were beating the crap out of your
mess hall. That stuff was fun to report on. And spe-
cial kudos to my “Deep Throat.”

And, at last, to our readers: we have always genu-
inely strived to serve, maybe not please, all of you. I
speak for all of the senior editors when I say that the
Phi has always believed that student journalism serves
a higher purpose than to just amuse the freshmen in
the dining hall or the fraternity guys at dinner. If our
coverage of issues and on this campus have even par-
tially inﬂuenced the administration to take steps to-
ward making this a safer and more astute institution
or have sparked debate, then we have done our job.
My only hope is that this campus will continue to par-
ticipate actively in student journalism, as writers or
editors, or as students giving both papers feedback.
Because this is our school. And when we have two
student newspapers in this small community, nothing
should be allowed to be swept under the rug, going
uncovered.

If you have any juicy news tips spring term, I might
consider doing some work for the Phi. You can ﬁnd
me at the Palms, sharing a bar stool with Swensen.

Ellie, ﬂing-tum lﬁlii

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayumik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editor Will Hardie
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Jill Jamieson
Brian Rogers
Matthew Craig
Steven Klotz

Business Manager

Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring—tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E—mail: phi@w1u.edu

Lastcaﬂ
From the
Bar Stool

It’s just about quitting time for this columnist.
After two semesters of providing you with commen-
tary, opinion and humor, it’s time to retire to greener
pastures (Goshen) for Spring Term, leaving the task

 a Bar Stool

  

of engaging, outraging and occasionally offending
you to new columnists (or possibly the same ones
who’ve been doing it all year).

Writing this column (almost) every week has
been quite an adventure. It’s taken me to new and
exciting places, like President Elrod’s office. Oth-
ers have considered suing me for libel. I’ve touched
on what I think is a fairly wide spectrum of issues,
like drinking (hey, look at the title of my column),
hazing, parking, the IFC, Swiss drug policy, the
theater productions my friends are starring in and
my inability to ﬁnd a paying job in the journalism
industry. The column has also produced a lot of
positive feedback, other than the summons from
President Elrod and an angry phone call from Fiji
after my hazing column.Well, no one’s perfect.

I’m sure some of you have read this column on a
weekly basis and determined I’m abitter senior who
hates this school. Granted, there were stretches this
year where week after week I climbed up on my
soapbox and discussed things that I don’t like about
Washington and Lee.

It’s not that I hate this school. Actually, it’s quite
the contrary. I’ve loved my four years here, and I’ll
take away countless memories and numerous friends
from W&L. That doesn’t mean this school is per-
fect. There isn’t a school in America that couldn’t
use improvement in one area or another, and W&L
is no exception. So over the past seven months I’ve
tried in my columns to outline the areas where W&L
could and should be better, and I won’t apologize
for doing that. You may not have agreed with ev-
erything I wrote, but if I sparked even a little
thought or debate, then I’ve done my job.

Before I wrap this up, let me take the opportu-
nity to thank the people who have helped make this
column possible every week.

First, I need to salute my three bossesf Courtney,
Jason and Frances. Back in September, it was
Courtney, Jason and Frances. Back in September,
it was Courtney who gave me a chance to try col-
umn writing, and she and Jason have backed me up
no matter what I wrote or who I pissed off.

Frances is the person who puts together this page
on a weekly basis. Despite not actually meeting her
face to face until last month, she has always been
more than understanding when my column hasn’t
been right on time. Her tireless efforts to make the
editorial page look good have made my column look
a lot better than it should. I owe them all dinner for
putting up with me this year.

Also, I want to thank my legal adviser, Prof. John
Jennings, who assured me that writing the truth
could not get me sued for libel. Fortunately, it was
too late for him to change my grade in Journalism
Law.

Finally, let me thank everyone who read my col-
umn every week, or even glanced at it on the way
to the cartoons. I hope you enjoyed it.

It’s time for me to hop off this ﬁgurative bar stool
and pull up a literal one down at The Palms. Hope-
fully, you’ll hear from me again some day. Hope-
fully, it won’t be from inside a chicken costume.

C6

   
 

1%

(K ,..:uote of the week:
£1;

Damn, I can’t

believe we’re
DONE!

C‘

-<

— One of the Phi Executive Editors
at around midnight Sunday night

 

 

“The Trident was a little more
boring than the Phi.”
—— Will Baker ’00

 

it 7 _
-l-‘I/YT if‘!-‘ll’ (
t:H_f\"Il’r 

15 Minutes of Shame

   

$Lt<.K WI‘-L-Y

  

 

V"’°ER S756 E J

/‘N /Iv-Tasu: mm g

$TtC—'<Y 313- m

 

‘Wt’! av:-i

 

1

    

“The Talkback made it deﬁnately worth
reading. It kept me going through the paper.”

" ...-~...J
4»: 1 Know THEY DoN'T SEEM KBLATED, 3”?’
THE same NUMBER 0? reams wee’? WW” °” 3°“!

     

    

  

... it
gsg ._ _..
g;¢’_’,9 Tunrruwtr
grim )'ouD0.‘ Y
 - -
Ala.
>
r Y
Ti-+E)‘lHl£:
V

Le:ters to the

Zimmer makes ammends

Dear Editor:

In the March 23, 1998, edition of the Ring—tum Phi, I
was quoted in the “Talk Back” section of your paper in
response to the question, “What would it take to get you
to a W&L athletic event?” I responded “A competent
W&L team.” This response, accurately quoted, was poorly
worded on my part. It conveyed a meaning that I did not
intend. Due to the offense that has been taken by mem-
bers of ’The the W&L community with regard to my quote,
I ask that you please print the following clariﬁcation in
your next issue.

I have said a lot of stupid things in my life. After 53
phone calls, 12 angry letters, 25 menacing e-mails, 2 death
threats, and 3 burning eﬂigies of myself, I must rank my
response to the Phi’s “Talk Back” question in last week’s
issue among the most idiotic of them. In that publication,
I said that it would take “a competent W&L team” to get
me to go to a W&L athletic event. While I meant what I
said (and I was accurately quoted), what I said was not
what I meant. Okay, that didn’t make any sense. What
I’m trying to say is that what I actually meant by my quote
was that I go to W&L athletic events in order to see com-
petent W&L teams play.

I was not (intentionally) implying that we have no such
teams‘. Granted, my response was poorly worded to say
the least, and if I weren’t me, and I read what I had said,
not only would I be unsure of my identity in this twisted
hypothetical situation, but I would also think, like many
of the Phi’s readers" did, that I (the “I” who was quoted)
was an ignorant jerk who knew nothing about the hard-
working, talented W&L teams I was bashing. In fact, I
would be the ﬁrst to burn myself in eﬁlgy while damning
me to hell. But alas, the whole thing was a mistake. I
chose my words carelessly and ended up offending people.
For all of you I unintentionally slighted, please accept my
sincere apologies. I am aware of the successes of W&L
athletics and furthermore am proud of them. So please
accept my sincere apologies. I am aware of the successes
of W&L athletics and furthermore am proud of them. SO
please forgive me and whoever left that headless chicken
on my doorstep, please remove it.

Sincerely,
John Zimmer ’00

A modest proposal for smokers

Dear Editor,

Having witnessed the suffering of out smokers during
the recent cold snaps and monsoons, I am moved to offer
this proposal on their behalf:

That we construct some well-ventilated gazebos, per-
haps modeled after our seemingly-trademark gatehouses,
at suitable locations around campus (though certainly not
anywhere which could be seen from our historic front
lawn). Within each would be a 55-gallon oil drum and a
plentiful stack of butt ends of 2x45, which, as anyone who’s
spent time around a construction site in cold weather
knows, provide the world’s warmest heat. Hardhats would

‘i

—- Maciej Golubiewski ’99

 

“I haven’t spent a lot of time
thinking about the Phi.”
— Elizabeth Huston ’99

V

R1iog—a1m Phi’

be optional.

In warmer weather, he drums could be ﬁlled with sand,
loosely packed, and serve as ashtrays. Smokers could alsox
use the sand to bury their heads in, should they be as-
sailed, no matter how civilly, with antismoking rhetoric.

Patrick Hinely ’7 3

Sexual misconduct is the worst
kind of honor violation

There is a disturbing trend at this university to View dis-y
honorable conduct only in terms of lying, cheating and steal-
ing. Lee’s concept of honor was meant to apply not only to
academic situations, but to social ones as well. The Student
Handbook acknowledges this — in most cases. For example,
the Student Judicial Council rules, which deal with most)‘
non-academic violations, list physical assault and “(activi-
ties) which endanger a person” as violations which require
“immediate suspension” (p. 28).

The Handbook treats situations involving sexual mis-
conduct differently Sexual misconduct can include, but is‘
not limited to, forced sexual contact, physical assault with
sexual intent, and forced sexual intercourse. Of these, only
a conviction of rape requires the penalty of dismissal from
the university. A conviction of another form of sexual mis-x
conduct warrants lesser penalties.

All fomis of sexual misconduct should be punished by
dismissal from the University. Matters involving sexual
misconduct are matters of honor. We consider stealing to
be an honor violation ~—- regardless of whether the amount)»
stolen is $10 or $10,000 — and sanction it with dismissal.
Why? Because “honor is not measured by degree.” The pun-
ishment does not reﬂect the magnitude of the crime, but
rather the student’s disregard for standards of honorabl
conduct. Likewise, a person convicted of any form of sexual‘
misconduct should not be allowed to remain at this Univer-
sity simply because he did not rape.

Currently, a student found guilty of sexual misconduct
(other than rape) can be penalized with counseling, con‘.
duct probation, and/or social probation. Ifit happened again,
chances are it would never be reported; less than 1 in 100
acquaintance rapes are. Yet, oddly enough, that same stu-
dent could steal from you and the University would expel
him as a matter of honor. V

The message this sends is disturbing — it is less of a
breach of honor to sexually assault a girl that it is to steal a
few dollars from a classmate. How can we make this kind
of claim? Sexual misconduct is the worst kind of honor vio-
lation — it is lying, cheating and stealing all at once — and
is of greater gravity than a violation of academic trust. Lee
would be appalled. His standard of gentlemanly conduct
did not end at the classroom door. It applied then, and should
still apply today, to all areas of student life. Sexual assault
and rape are violations of honor and trust which strike at
the heart of the ideals on which this University was founded.
How can students who commit such crimes be deemed hon-
orable? “

Kristen Hitchens ’00 I

What was your opiriieri of the P121’ this year?_.,

 

“I don’t think you want my quote.”

-— Cassie Shaner ’00
K

1 spring issue of Shenandoah,
' The Washington and Lee Uni-
-. versity Review is now avail-

 work by Lousie Herreshoff,
. Lucia Perillo, W.S. Merwin and
» Kathryn Stripling Byer.

V Rector and Shaner.

  New Shenandoah now

‘ versity Bookstore.

if Shenandoah has published
- award-winning ﬁction, poetry,

  

MARCH 30, 1998

Oliver shares stories
from new collection

BY ERICA Paosslzlz

STAFF \VRlTE-R

Bill Oliver insists that the title of his new book, Women
and Children First, is not an attempt to cash in on
the recent popularity of the Titanic.

“Most of the stories [in the book] are about women
and children, from their points of view,” he said during a
reading and signing of the new volume.

The book, which came out at the end of January, is a
collection of 12 stories which won the Midlist Press First
Series Award for Short Fiction.

Oliver, a tall ﬁgure wearing a purple sweaterand a broad
smile for the occasion, appeared in Northen Auditorium
Tuesday aﬁemoon and read “Companion,” the last story
in the book, to a crowd of about 30 local teachers, stu-
dents and fans.

“The reading was pleasant,” he said afterwards. “l
was nervous beforehand, though.”

Oliver was among friends, however. He is director
of the Virginia Military Institute Writing Center, and
teaches at VMI and W&L.

His stories have been published in literary maga-
zines and earned him prizes for writing.

He has published several story collections already, and
copies of Oliver’s last few volumes were clutched in the
hands of the mesmerized listeners during his reading.

Oliver admitted that he, too, sometimes has difﬁculty
with the creative process. He said that “Companion,” a
low-key love story, was difﬁcult for him to write.

He said he had been trying to make the story into some-
thing it wasn’t, but once he accepted the story for what it
was, he was able to create it to his satisfaction.

Overall, he is content with his teaching and writing.

This latest book is already a hit; members of the audi-
ence who had read the stories discussed their favorites
and praised his work. After Oliver ﬁnished his reading, he
was met by a line of people seeking autographs and words
with the author. He smiled, chatted, and signed copy after
copy of his book.

“Women and Children First is also an ironic title,” he
said, pointing out one of the more appealing aspects of
the book. “Most of the characters don’t get any help
from men. They’re strong on their own.”

ESPN covers W&L
Riding Team event

B-HFILB

f the six members of the W&L riding team who quali-

ﬁed to compete in last weekend’s Regional Finals in
Raleigh, NC, ﬁve members placed high enough to qualify
for the Zone Finals which will be hosted by W&L and
covered on ESPN on April 20.

The team also ranked 6th over all for the season — up
two places from last year.

This year’s regional qualiﬁers were Sarah Rector, Chris-
tine Starer, Lydia Nichols, Lindsay Gatling, Cassie Shaner
and Wendy Kimble. Nichols, who won her division, was
named Regional Champion.
Nichols, Rector, Gatling,
Shaner and Kimble are
zone qualiﬁers.

The W&L Riding
Team, started only
three years ago, is led
by tri-captains Starer,

   

available in bookstore

HaFl1.l':s

ust in time for the lazy
days of Spring Term, the

§l~l'1€1?~I:-\N.l‘)t')Ait

able for purchase at the Uni-

The spring issue features

 

Edited by R.T. Smith, _ A
Spring issue.

essays and interviews since 1950. Work published in the

- magazine is regularly included in The Best/fmerican Short

A _ Stories, The Best American Poetry and The Best American

Essays annual anthologies.
Copies of the magazine are available for $5.00 at the
University Bookstore. Take a copy to Goshen with you.

Lenfest presents new

plays by new playwrights
H1IFrlrs

he playwriting class will present a reading of new plays
by new playwrights 7 p.m. April 2 in the Johnson The-
atre. Tickets are not required.

Sheri Hamilton, Alex Christensen, Michael Duderstadt,
Wes Armstrong, Anthony Dvarskas, Alyssa Sellers, James
Sammons and Hampton Richards will read from their work.

The playwriting class is taught by Professor and Pro-
fessional Playwright Tom Ziegler during winter term. lt is
an introductory workshop in scene writing. The composi-
tion and staged reading of a short, one-act play culminates
the course.

GD Tonight and tomorrow are the ﬁnal performances of
the annual Festival of One Acts at 8 p.m. in the Johnson
Theatre. No tickets are required and admission is free.

Ska Against Racism tour

brings genre back to its roots

BYHOLLISTERHOVEY
——:~— PHOroE3nloR

ome claim that ska made

multi-racial bands legiti

mate to the public. This

month, the genre is

coming together to ﬁght

for one of its original

messages — abolishing racism. The

Ska Against Racism tour is crossing the

country raising money for local chari-
ties in each city to abolish prejudice.

“Less than Jake,” “The Toasters,”

“Mustard Plug,” “The Blue Meanies,”

“Five Iron Frenzy,” “Kemuri,” Mike

“Bruce Lee” Park and “MU330” are

iheadlining the one-and-a-half month

ltour that hits The Boathouse in Nor-

folk, VA on April 17, Godwin Hall in A

Harrisonburg,VA on April 18 and the
9:30 Club in D.C. on April 21.

Ska music has a 40-year history
intertwined with politics and politi-
cal activism. “Ska music originated
in Jamaica as they were gaining their
independence from Britain in 1962,”
Rob “Bucket” Hingley, head of
Moon Ska Records and lead singer
of “The Toasters” said in a recent
interivew. A few years later, eco-

’ noniic depressionhit Jamiaca, /and
the music became slower and more '

depressing, evolutionizing into rock
steady and reggae.

Even though original ska is upbeat
and happy, it always was a form of pro-
test music. “A lot of the original mes-

sages of ska music are being lost,”
Hingley said. “First, right from the get-
go it's rebel music coming from the
trench tainted ghetto  In the ’70s, for
example, it was particularly politically
charged because it was like a reaction
against Margaret Thatcher and right
wing politics in England. It was a
shout out against unemployment. A
shout out against racism. A shout out
against sexism.”

Original Jamaican ska bands like the
“Specials” were characterized by a “two-
tone” theme representing the black and
white races. There were both black and
white members in many of the original
bands, at a time when
this was quite rare. A
checker board is still

A l t h o u g h
original ska

dynamite issue at that point.”

In the 1950s, before ska’s transfor-
mation into reggae, former Island
Records president and founder Chris
Blackwell brough ska legend Laurel
Aitken to England. The genre became
fairly popular, but didn't make its way
across the Atlantic for over a decade.
In the late ’70s Hing1ey’s work at a comic
company sent him to the United States.
He wanted to feed his love for ska mu-
sic, so he formed a band in ’81 that he
called “Not Bob Marley.” This small
band that played music previously un-
heard by Americans renamed itself “The
Toasters.” Within two years, it had an
album under the
Moon Ska label which
Hingley started.

one of the most recog- I Since then, “The
nizable symbolsofska 1 S 1.1 p b e a t Toasters”has re-
music, but much of the a n d h a P P Y I married very success-
meanlng was lost . ful and Moon Ska ls
when ska came to 1 t a 1 W a Y S one ofthe most influ-
America ﬁom England. wa s a f o rm ential ska labels in the
“For me itwasapretty O f P ro t e S t industry with new-
politicallychargedmu- . ska bands like
mu S 1 C .

sic in the ’70s, but it
has’t translated too
well to music in the ’90s because people

'dori‘t’havé too much to worry about if

you think about it,” Hingley said. “I
think racism is a big issue over here that
no one wants to talk about. 1 think
that’s one of the reasons they didn’t
promote “two-tone” over here be-
cause politically it was too much of a

“Dance Hall Crash-
ers,” “Let's Go Bowl-
ing,” “The Slackers,” “The Bluebeats”

I and “Hepcat.”

While most of these bands stay
close to actual ska standards, the
bands that have infused punk with ska
have become the most popular. Punk-
ska bands like “The Mighty Mighty
Bosstones,” “Less than Jake” and

“Goldfinger” started out as purely
punk bands, but added horn sections
as the ska trend spread.

The popular band “No Doubt” can
be considered a pop-punk—ska band,
but the ska inﬂuence is actually smaller
than the media has made it out to be.
“A lot of people just see some punk
band playing an upbeat guitar on MTV
and think that’s [ska],” Hingley said.

He hopes that the transient fame
surrounding these pop-ska bands
will help bring authentic ska music
to the forefront.

“Hopefully we’ll just be in a little
bit ofa better position,” Hingley said,
“because well make some inroads in
terms of publicity and get some
grounding for real ska music off the
backs of the wannabies.”

Hingley believes that the original
genre will withstand the test oftime as
long as passion remains. “There are
people who really believe in the music
for what it is because it’s a way oflife
for them. Then there’s people who are
only in it for the money. Those are the
types who will desert the sinking ship
when it’s not fashionable, but 1 don’t
really care about them,” he said. “I’1l

still be playing this musiciwhen ’tliey’re' '
i doing something else.”

* * * The interview with Hingley
took place this fall over the phone at
WL UR for the Skatology radio show
hosted by Lara Ellison, Jessica Helm
and H ollister H ovey.

Skeletones.

 Plug.

HELP WANTED

Men/Women earn $375
weekly processing/assembling
Medical I.D. Cards at home.
Immediate openings, your local
area. Experience unnecessary,
will train. Call Medicard 1-
541-386-5290 Ext. 118M

mo

 

pit stop

take a brake
from the race

cappuccino or fountain drink.

Going home orjust taking a trip up/down l-
81, stop in at Mint Springs Pit Stop (Exit 217-
EXXON). Purchase 5 gallons or more of gas,
show college ID and receive free 20oz coffee,

    

  

 

gm. ..

Rue $3153 55‘
,‘,w,,,,,,e tgvgggxw maxim ‘Ema

  

vi
a....»..~o-

. ~ ‘« mims¥K"§
(lrrtt1i W"

FOR the EDUCATION and RESEARCH COMMUNITY-

 
 

  

  
 
  

g‘o\k*t§*‘~
\ glx;r‘1\*§“§;‘;:;E:“§‘iitl§? 
rsiexs.-‘tor . ., “‘ -~s 
 1‘\<3”‘7i“» 9, :rte.t3‘ME M»-
our-it .»r1;j,".\.“~‘l\»*’-‘*1’   ,,,-- 
  nest rat. . ,"_,~,..mw-r""”'"MWA‘MM 

Attention College Seniors:

What do I do up-Kt?

Be a live-in nanny for UVA professors
family for one year, starting August 1.
Regular weekday schedule, generous
salary, paid vacations and holidays,
health insurance, free room and board,
own spacious living quarters (with
bathroom, and separate entrance), all
utilities, swimming pool membership,
privacy, respect. Non—smokers, good
drivers, college graduates or students
only. Call 804-924-7815 or e-mail
aw2b@virginia.edu.

11:1

ecommentl Tl/\r\-CRl’.l’ SR/\s. SR/\s are tax-
(lL’l.Cl.rCd Z\nnUitlE'5 lllill Ciln l1Clp ‘VOU l)Ull(l r:\(l(lili0n{ll

asst-t.s—Inoll(’_\' lltat run l11£ll(L‘ tllo (lillol‘ol1t‘t‘ l)ct\\'oen

Oi‘ l‘Z1St l'Cll€l" l’vl‘(7lT1 ilk‘ llilggillg ilCl1(‘ Oi. IIIXCS. \\'C
T

, living and living rill’/l in rctircrncnt.

Contributions to SR/\s iIl‘L‘(‘Ull\‘CI1l(‘I1ll‘\'(iC(llI(‘lC(l
from _\'our szrlal‘_\' on il pl‘vt.'lx lrusis. lilo r‘L~sLllt'.’ .\lol’v:
money ll1\'CSl(.‘(l. l“L-\\'t‘l‘ taxes now. :\ntl Slllkl‘ im L‘S[l1‘lL‘l1I
earnings are tax (lCl(‘lT\‘Ll until _\'ou l‘ot'oi\'c tllem as
income, the lnonL'_\' you <lnn't st-nil to \\':r.<l1illr__>‘tol1 turn

\\’0I‘l\' C\'L‘ll ll£ll‘(lL‘l‘ l.()l' _\'()ll.

\Vll;lt else (l(l Sl{.‘\s <)llcl"? /\ llull range (ll. ll1\'L‘SllTl(‘lll

Cl1()lCL‘Sl ll llCl})l.Ul l0(|ll lL‘£|lUl'(‘. ilnkl ll1L‘ llll(lIlCl£ll CXPCITISC

of"l‘lr\r\—CRl‘:l“, tllc \\'ol‘ltl's largest retirement s_\'slcln.:‘

Now l\lor‘e \\'a_vs to Nleet Your Goals

'l‘orl;l_\' ll.-\.'\-CRl‘ll“ can lrclpyou meet even more

ol'_\'oul‘ linllnt iul (‘Il)lL.‘L‘ll\'L‘S, \\'itl'r lRz\s. mutual lumls,

zlnll rnurc. \\’tVll lrclp _\'ou select the solutions that suit

_\'0ul‘ lioctls. Visit _\'0ul‘ l)L-nclits oil-lt‘c or call us ill

l   I0 l(‘i\l‘ll ll10I'€.

Do it lmluy —il \Ulll(ll1‘l hurt.

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa—Crel'.or'g

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.

I Irll .l‘\t l~ mulm tH.lI\.l:\‘Ilu'III

ll.t~t‘4
I l \ \-Cl{|-L|- lmlnr-lu.r| .uul lII\lIllIlItvIl.ll S\'I\Il\‘\tll\lIll>lllt'~ L’l(|.l

1... .  l.II‘_,'\'\.|llIlk'\t\\'H~r'~,l.lll 1 Nllll.\‘4‘_‘.‘,'."f.'u .\i

..~...ll.....-....l .,.l.-...\..... .l..- l'I\\ llml l-.......- \tHIllI\l  ...... 
 rm. l... .l.. ,.....,..-.l...... Rlhlll rim. ...,.-l..ll\ l..-l....- ltlll .....»..  \L'|lIl  -_ws

 

 

PAGE 4

Men’s lax defeats
Roanoke College

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—-————————— STAFF Wiznra

Ed Dougherty and the rest of the
Washington & Lee Men’s Lacrosse
Team were a little dazed at the begin-
ning of sudden-death overtime during
Saturday aftemoon’s showdown with
ODAC-rival Roanoke College.
Roanoke had just tied the game with
10 seconds left in regulation and had
also drawn a penalty, giving the Ma-
roons an extra man advantage and a
great deal of momentum heading into
the extra period.

But just when things looked dark-
est for the Generals, an All-American
came to the rescue. Senior Ed
Dougherty scored a short-handed
goal ten seconds into OT to give the
Generals a thrilling 6-5 overtime vic-
tory in one of the most dramatic la-
crosse games in Generals history.

Since the Generals had possession
and were a man down at the end of
regulation, there was no face-off at the
beginning of OT and instead the extra
session began with the ball in the stick
of Dougherty. The all-American blew
by the entire Roanoke defense, ripped
the game-winner past Maroons goalie
Evan Kaplow, and was immediately
mobbed by his teammates in a post-
game celebration.

“I wanted to ﬁnd an open man and
pass it to him, but we were a man down
so nobody was open and I really didn’t
know what to do” said Dougherty as
he described his heroic game winning
goal. “All of the sudden I saw an open-
ing and Ijust ran; 1 saw an opening in
the goal. I just shot it and it went in
and then I just started going crazy.”

The game was tied 3-3 at the end of
the ﬁrst half as the Generals got first
half goals from sophomore Colin
Dougherty, and freshman Matt Dugan,
and senior Tom Fallace. Both teams
went scoreless during a defensive
third quarter as the game entered the
fourth quarter still deadlocked at three.
The Generals soon took command,
however, as freshman attackman Ben
Lucas scored back-to-back goals to
give the Generals a 5-3 lead with 5:59

to play.

But just as the Generals were be-
ginning to smell the sweet scent of an
upset-victory, the Maroons came back
to tie the and send the game to OT
with two goals in the final 2:40.

Momentum was obviously was
with the Maroons heading into the
overtime but someone forgot to tell
that to the Generals.

“We had it in hand and then here
we are all of the sudden in overtime
down a man,” said Dougherty. “We
were pretty nervous. I’m sure nobody
expected us to come out and score
with a man down like that.”

“We were conﬁdent going into
OT,” added Dugan, the leading scorer
for the Generals who had 1 goal on
Saturday. “It wasn’t the prettiest goal,
but it went in and that’s all that mat-
ters.”

It was a huge victory for the Gener-
als and for their seniors especially, who
had not beaten Roanoke during their
ﬁrst three years at W&L.

“We [the seniors] had never beaten
them before,” commented Dougherty.
“It was one of goals this year for both
the seniors and for the entire team.”

Now the question for the Generals
is whether or not they will face the al-
ways-feared let down aﬁer a big win.
The Generals have been recently
plagued by late-season losses which
have knocked them out of the NCAA
tournament.

“We’re really excited right now but
we have to be really cautious,” said
Dougherty. “We’ve been this high
before and we’ve gotten knocked right
back down.”

“We can’t overlook the weaker
teams,” added Dugan. “We have to
go out and play hard everyday.”

Senior goalie Scott Jackson had
another huge game for the General as
he tied his career-high with 17 saves.

The victory improves the seventh
ranked Generals to 6-1 on the season
and W&L should climb a few slots in
the new poll. The Generals also
knocked off 15th-ranked Connecticut
College 12-8 earlier in the week.

Baseball extends
winning streak to 4

Washington & Lee's baseball
team improved its record to 8-6 and
6-2 in the ODAC by sweeping Emory
& Henry (2-10, 0-2 ODAC) yester-
day afternoon at Smith Field.

In the first game, the Generals
used a three-run second inning in
which the Wasps commited three
errors to grab a 4-1 lead. Sopho-
more right ﬁelder Christian Batcheller
slammed his ﬁfth home run of the
year in the fourth inning to give the
Generals a 5-1 lead. Sophomore sec-
ond baseman Andy Thompson hit a
two-run triple in the ﬁfth inning to
ﬁnish off the scoring at 7-1.

Junior pitcher Bob Weston gave
up seven hits and one run, while
striking out seven and walking none
in seven innings to run his record
to 4-1.

In the second game, junior des-
ignated hitter Patrick Hall broke a 2-

Lexington, Virginia

Accommodations:
'48 Attractive Guest Rooms

‘Non-Smoking Rooms Available

Attractions:

Natural Bridge — 16 miles
'Virginia Military Institute
°Washington & Lee University
‘Virginia Horse Center

‘Color Cable TV — free ESPN and HBO
'King Beds and/or Two Double Beds
‘Scenic Mountain Views from your Room

°Free Continental Breakfast: Free Local Phone Calls
°Restaurants within Walking Distance

‘Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

2 tie in the second inning by sin-
gling homejunior left ﬁelder Mike
Nolan. The Generals added a run
when Thompson was walked with
the bases loaded in the sixth inning.

Sophomore pitcher Chris Stakem
earned his ﬁrst victory of the sea-

.son by pitching seven innings of
six-hit baseball. E&H's Justin Jones
allowed only ﬁve hits in ﬁve innings
pitched.

Earlier in the Week, the Generals
came up with conference wins over
Eastern Mennonite and Hampden-
Sydney. On Tuesday W_&L downed
EMU 8-1 and on Wednesday W&L de-
feated Hainpden-Sydney 9-5.

The Generals have now won eight
of their last eleven games and are on a
four game win streak. They will return
to Smith Field on Tuesday for a 3:00
battle against Eastern Mennonite.

—from staﬂ reports

New Management and Renovations

Econo Lodge

sports

MARCH 23, 1998

JASON ZACHER/EXECUTIVE E01101:

BY ]AsoN ZACHER

SENIOR EMILY GIPSON and freshman Liz Borges prepare to snatch the ball from a Colby defensemen who
has just received a clear/rom her goalie. The Generals went on to lose to the White Mules by a score of 12-8.

Women’s lacrosse resumes
winning ways vs. MW, 13-7

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team split their
two games this week. They
dropped a strong Mary Washing-
ton team Saturday 13-7 after a dis-
appointing loss to Colby College
Thursday.

“The loss to Colby was a good
wake-up call for us,” senior
Whitney Parker said. “We realized
that we needed to get over it and
move on. [Mary Washington] was
a good win for us.”

In addition to getting the Gener-
als back on a winning track,
Saturday’s win also marked coach
Jan Hathorn’s 100th victory at
W&L. Hathom is currently in her
tenth season as coach of the Gen-
erals. The milestone was an-
nounced after the game.

The Generals (8-1, 5-0 ODAC)
led 7-3 at halftime and scored the
ﬁrst two goals of the second half to
open a six-goal lead. Mary Wash-
ington scored three straight goals
to cut their deﬁcit to 9-6 with 21 :56

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

to play. W&L put the game out of
reach by scoring four goals in just over
four minutes.

“I think we really stepped it up on
Saturday,” said junior Lauren Francis.
“We really put it all together.”

Seniors Whitney Parker and
Lorraine Taurassi each scored hat-
tricks for the Generals. Freshman Liz
Borges, Senior Betsy Howe and Se-
nior Mary Jo Mahoney each added
two goals. Junior Cory Metee also
scored for W&L.

Borges, Parker, Taurassi and Senior
Emily Gipson also added an assist
each.

Ginny Jemigan was the story for
the Generals once again, kepping the
Generals in the game by saving 75 per-
cent of Mary Washington’s shots.

“There’s always a couple of players
who step-up every year,” Parker said.
“She’s one of the ones this year. Last
year was very hard for her, playing be-
hind (All-American) Brooke Glenn.
She’s really amazed me this year.”

Despite four goals from Taurassi,

 

the Generals dropped their first
game of the year Thursday to Colby
12-8.

The game was back-and-forth as
the clock neared the 15 minute mark
on the ﬁrst half, but the next 15 min-
utes belonged to Colby. Seven
goals later, Colby took a 8-3 lead into
halﬁime.

Parker added two goals for the
Generals, while Borges and Mahoney
each scored once.

The win over Mary Washington
put the Generals back on the winning
track before their ODAC showdown
when Roanoke College comes to Lex-
ington Thursday at 4:00 p.m.

Roanoke (4-3, 3-1 ODAC) in on a
two-game losing streak, dropping
games to Middlebury and Hartwick.
Roanoke has also lost to Randolph-
Macon and only defeated Mary
Washington by two goals. The Gen-
erals beat both RMC and MWC.

‘‘We’re really psyched,” Parker
said. “In my four years, we’ve only
beaten them once, and they’re our
biggest rivals: We all know there is
a lot on the line.”

 J O C k 3 l1 0 I18 —fr0m sramepom

Women’s Track

Washington and Lee set two
school records and won both events
at the Battleground Relays. The
4x800 relay team of Kathleen
Maroney, Lauren McKeever,
Natasha Dorofeeva and Lisa
Brennan won in a record time of
9:46.0. The distance medley relay
team of Wendy Case, Maroney,
Dorofeeva and Brennan won in a
school record time of 12:59.9.

[F-a‘?‘il

Location:

 

At 1-64 and U.S.ll

RR 7 Box 81
Lexington. VA 24450
703-463-7371
Toll-Free Reservations
1-800-424-4777

to Roanoke 4-

Women’s Tennis

Washington and Lee's women's
tennis team swept both Bridgewater
and Guilford 9-0 in a pair of Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
matches on Saturday as a split
squad. The Generals are 12-3 for the
season. They are continuing an
eight game winning streak since a
loss to Kenyon. Next, the Generals

travel to Emory to try to improve

their record to 13-3 on Friday.

THANK YOU

The women's lax
team would like to
thankJohn Zlmmer
for providing inspi-
ration for the rest
of their season.
Damn it, we're a
competent team!

Design contest ($100 Cash Prize)
Designs due outside Carol Caulkins’ )1
office by April 10th.
Questions? Call 4057 »

Men’s tennis?
grabs 3rd in .
W&L Invite

BY FRANCES GROBERG A
---——:j—--- O’iNIoNs Eorroizv

The W&L men’s tennis team im-
proved their record to 1 1-2 this week-
end, taking 3rd place in the W&L invi-
tational. 7

On Sunday, the team pulled out a
narrow 4-3 victory against Claremont
to clinch the position. Victories were
recorded in singles by Chris Haun,»,
Glenn Miller, Kelly Radford, and David
Lehman. Narrow losses came from
Dale Pretila, Scott Babka, and the
doubles teams of Pretila/Haun,0Babka/
Radford, and Miller/Tom Washbum. )1.

The Generals weren’t as success-
ful against Kalamazoo in the semiﬁ-
nals on Saturday, losing 7-0. Pretila,
Haun, Babka, Miller, Radford, and,
Lehman all took losses in singles. V
Miller did, however, take a set off of
his opponent by a score of 6-3. The
three doubles teams also recorded
losses, including the teams of Pretila/7
Haun, Babka/Radford, and Miller/
Washbum.

To get to the semiﬁnals, W&L de-
feated Kenyon on Friday, 5-2. Win-
ning for the Generals in singles were ‘‘
Pretila, Haun, Miller, Radford, and
Lehman, but Babka lost a close match.
The three doubles teams all lost their
matches to Kenyon, including Pretilal )
Haun, Babka/Radford, and Miller/
Washbum.

Next for the Generals is home on

Wednesday against Lynchburg at 3 :00.
>1

--ﬁfong sitzﬂirepor si

Mock GOP Convention 2000
Applications are now available for 1
positions of secretary and trea-

surer outside of Carol Caulkins’ ofﬁce V
' Logo ,

 

