T

"V

LIJ
E
.4
05
3

Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 5

The Wal-Mart Garden
Center transforms into
a haunted house for

children of all ages for

a price that isn’t smry.

PAGE 3

 
 
 
 
 

Dorm counselors
reprimanded

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
+-—-?---— NEWS EDITOR
Three dorm counselors were rep-
rimanded by Dean of the Freshman
Program Dennis G. Manning last
week for not enforcing the University
alcohol policy in the dorms as strictly
as he had hoped. .
_On the night of Friday, Oct. 17,
three dorm counselors and a large
group of freshmen were socializing
in a Gilliam second ﬂoor/infir1nary-
side room.

A freshman girl was drinking a
beer when a fourth dorm counselor
walked into the crowded and noisy
room. The dorm counselor gave the
freshman the penalty for drinking
in the dorms and reported the other
three dorm counselors in the room
to Manning.

The three dorm counselors told
Manning that they were not con-
suming alcohol at the time and were
not aware that there was alcohol in
the room. '

“It was a really crowded room and
they were on the other side of it from
where the freshman girl was drinking
the beer,” said Chaz Frank ’99, head
dorm counselor.

Since they were not drinking with
the freshmen in the dorms and since
they were unaware that alcohol was
being consumed, the dorm counselors

Swiping for safety?

BY HEATHER MCDONALD
-——-——-—- STAFF WRITER

“Excuse me, can you let me in? I
forgot my card.”

This is not an altogether uncom-
mon phrase at W&L. But how do you
know that person is a student and even
has a card in the ﬁrst place?

Such is the dilemma concerning
University cards, better known as
“swipe cards.” As on-campus thefts
skyrocketed this year, many are won-
dering whether or not the swipe cards
are doing their job.

“This year has eaten us up,” W&L
Chief of Security Michael Young said
about the thefts that have occurred this
year. The system has cut back on
thefts overall, although this year is an
exception, Young said.

“The thefts have been mostly from
residence halls and the library,” Lex-
ington Police Chief Bruce Beard said
there have been at least 12 on-cam-
pus thefts this year.

“I can’t explain the increase,”
Beard said. “I hope we’re able to ap-
prehend the person or people who are
responsible for these thefts.” I

Dean of the Freshman Program
Dennis G. Manning had a different
perspective on the thefts.

‘‘I would hardly call [the thefts] a

have been put on a probationary pe-
riod instead of suffering stricter pen-
alties, Frank said.

The probation entails a review of
their position on the dorm counselor
staff by Manning at the end of the term.

“I was not pleased,” Manning said.
“I don’t expect the dorms to be a po-
lice state, but I felt that they should
have been more vigilant about enforc-
ing the alcohol policy.”

“I thinklthat alcohol offenses in the
dorm have existed since alcohol and
dorms have existed,” Manning said.

Manning thinks that the dorm
counselors are doing a good job over-
all of enforcing the alcohol policy and
hopes that they aren’t getting soft.

Dorm counselors sign a contract
specifying that they will enforce the
University’s policy on alcohol in
the dorms.

“I think we have an effective al-
cohol policy in the dorms,” Man-
ning said.

The first offense for an alcohol
infraction is six hours of work in the
Dining Hall and a $50 fine. The
second offense is another six hours
in the D-hall, a $100 ﬁne, referral
to an alcohol education program,
referral to Dean Manning and noti-
ﬁcation to parents. A third alcohol
offense means expulsion from Uni-
versity Housing.

trend,” Manning said. “But you can
lock your door and practice good
sound personal security without be-
traying the Honor System. We live
in a town of 7-8,000 people and more
hi the surrounding county, who are not
a part of the Honor System.”

He added that there is no way to
connect the this year’s thefts to the use
of swipe cards.

The swipe card system was first

installed in the freshman dorms in the
fall of 1995. The year before, there
were approximately 30 thefts in the
dorms, according to Young. After
swipe cards were installed, the num-
ber of thefts in the dorms dropped to
about 3, said Young.

Gaines Residence Hall and Woods
Creek Apartments had the swipe card
system installed last year, and the
number of thefts in the dormitories
was about the same.

“One (of the perpetrators) in
Woods Creek was in the building as a
guest of someone else,” said Young
about one of the thefts two years ago.
“That’s something we can’t control.
It’s up to you if you let a thief stay
with you.”

This fall, the old Delt House was

QEDSEESWIPEPAGE2

 

SPORTS

PAGE 5

Water polo wins third place
in the Mid—Atlantic
Championships in true Varsity
fashion, and women’s soccer
bounces back from first loss.

 

he Tiling-tum {ﬂirt

X-Files Correspondent
Mayur: ‘k knows wha it takes
t be a die—hard_ an.

Lambda Chi Alphas have turned
their fraternity house’s main ﬂoor
and basement into a haunted house
every Halloween for as long as the
brothers can remember.

“It requires a lot of preparation,”
Jeff Mitchell ’99 said. “The whole
house gets together that afternoon
and puts things up.”

DOING ‘I’HE“l\l’/lONSl‘ER MASH 

Each room of the house has its own
theme, and the brothers who work in
the room dress up to match the theme.

Lambda Chi will probably spend
about $75 on candy, make-up and a few
new props for the house, Mitchell said.
The Lexington Police Department usu-
ally donates $50 to the project.

“The haunted house has the double

effect of doing something fun for the
kids and giving all the proceeds to the
United Way,” Scott Kees ’98 said.

The Lambda_Chi haunted house
usually raises more than $200 for
the United Way. It runs from 7:30
p.m. to 9 p.m on Oct. 30. Admis-
sion is around $1.

@ By Hillary Coombs 1

Giving up the ghost:

Rumors of W&L spooks abound

BY KATHIE SOROKA

part of campus.

Washington and Lee folklore, it is probably be-

F ail any midterms this past week? According to
cause you walked between the two center columns

in front of Graham-Lees dormitory.

This legend is just one piece of the ever-evolving local
mythology and ghost stories which surround the W&L

campus and the Lexington area.

Stories of Robert E. Lee and his family occasionally

ﬂoat around campus.

' One of the most eerie stories is that Lee still visits the
Payne Hall 21 classroom in which he was inaugurated.

Professor Sanders, University Historian, heard of a

spectral sighting in Lee Chapel. This time, it was not Lee

himself, but his nephew who was spotted with a woman

on the chapel’s stage.

Sanders doubts Robert E. Lee is actually haunting any _

Educating through the tap

BY COURTNEY MILLER
——%———— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

It was free beer, Beam and cokes
and screwdrivers for the over-21
participants at Washington and
Lee’s controlled drinking experi-
ment last Wednesday.

Sponsored by Peer Counselors and
Lifestyle Information For Everyone,
the evening was designed to educate
students about tolerance.

Zach Lee, senior and LIFE
member, was pleased with the
evening’s turnout.

“You can always hope for more,
but we got people to participate and
there was a good size audience sitting
around hanging out and listening to
music,” Lee said.

This is the second year Dr. Jane
Horton has been involved in the ex-
periment. She introduced several
changes, including serving hard alco-

hol in addition to beer, differentiat-
ing between men and women and in-
viting Catholic Campus Ministry
Chaplain Burr Datz’s band to enter-
tain the students. ’

Seniors Kelly Dyer and John
Osborne enjoyed the evening of free
drinks.

“To be honest, I’m here because I
wanted to know how much I could
drink,” Osborne said.

After two cups of bourbon and
Coke in an hour, Dyer had the low-
est blood alcohol concentration of
the participants.

“I know I have a pretty high toler-
ance,” he said.

Three Lexington policemen were
on hand to administer breathalyser
tests, which determine a person’s
Blood Alcohol Concentration, or a

CD SEE BEER PAGE 2

Senior Sunda Wells takes a
breathalyzer test during the
Controlled Drinking Experiment.
WILL H.4RL>11/R1N(;—im/ PHI

 

STAFF WRITER “If anyone passed over to the other side, it was Lee,”

he said.

The most famous Lee legend deals with Traveller, Lee’s
trusted horse. The current garage to Lee House was once
Traveller’s barn, and the doors were always left open.
After both Lee and Traveler passed away, the doors were
closed, but not for long. Legend has it that Traveller was
heard bucking and making a ruckus that night. The doors
have never been closed since.

Professor Brian Richardson recalls a recent story of a
Pennsylvanian student returning to campus after vacation.

“Something freaked him out so bad, he jumped in his
car and drove back to Pennsylvania,” Richardson said. “He
stayed there until his roommates came back to school.”

Lexington is full of ghost stories outside ofW&L, as well.

{Q9 sag GHOSTS PAGE 2

  

Kathryn

PAGE 10

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
OCTOBER 27, 1997

Study
reveals
faculty
salaries

QB Elrod calls the
Chronicle of Higher
Education’s report of
faculty income
“unseemly.”

BY WILL HARDIE
——"—-i*—— VIsITINo EDITOR

A report naming President John
Elrod as the third highest-paid private
higher institution president in Vir-
ginia has touched some raw nerves
on campus.

The paper also divulged the sala-
ries of the top five university officials,
all Law professors.

Elrod called the report “unseemly,”
and Director of Personnel Bob Fox
branded it “a Violation of confidence
and a violation of privacy.”

The study in this week’s
Chronicle of Higher Education is
based on data from the federal tax
returns of 477 private colleges and
universities nationwide.

President Elrod received a total of
$177,500 including benefits in the
year 1995-96. He refused to comment
on the figures.

“I find it unseemly having salaries
flaunted in print, and as unseemly for
me to talk about my own salary,” he
said.

Elrod made no objection when simi-
lar figures were published last year.

Fox objects to the publication of
employees’ salaries.

“Talking about the salaries of in-
dividuals is a violation of confidence
and a violation of privacy,” he said.

Other than Elrod, the top five paid
W&L employees are all law profes-
sors. Barry Sullivan, Dean of the Law
School, received $199,079 including

beneﬁts; professors Bezanson, Kirgis,
Rendleman and Groot earned between
$150,000 and $180,000 in 1995-96.

“If you want a law school with
competitive professors you have to
pay competitive salaries,” Professor
Doug Randleman said. “A success-
ful lawyer in a similar position
would be getting several hundred
thousand dollars.”

For the last decade, state law has
required private institutions to submit
the salaries of their ﬁve most highly
paid employees, to review the tax
breaks available.

Public schools are subject to the
Freedom of Information Act and so

 SEE SALARY PAGE 2

   
   

 ,.    _ g V  EDITOR
2  ‘ Arearesrdent  Kessler beg’an’servinfgi70 days
1 in jail’ last~~Eriday,, ifii‘p,axt_for1’th¢ .*hett ‘of 3.3 cassettes I
“and nine CD’s ﬁjomsenior, Chris Baldwin’s carFebru- V
, 5', Kessler,   by the name‘ ‘fDavic1;’}:i-eceived ,
‘ 30iday§ foriithe‘thefts,,30I'for—a trespassing charge and
10 for an assault and battery charge. He was originally
charged with felony grand larceny, since the origi-
nal value Baldwin gave the police was $315. How-
ever, the ‘charged was changed to a misdemeanor
before the trial when the courtdeterrninedthe value
to be less than $200. Both the trespassing and as-,
sault and battery. charge were alsooriginally! felo-
nies, but were dropped down to misdemeanors. They
were unrelated to thefts. g 1 I V 5
Kessler was arrested after trying to sell the items to
Wayne Raynal, owner of Night Owl Music, who had

items. ‘

» night.”

e   for theft
   I Istudent’s car

  tipped off by Baldwin with a list of the stolen

. Almost 30 of the cassettes and four of the CDs were
rare and valuable Dave Matthews Band bootlegs.

“At ﬁrstgl thought I had misplaced them,” Baldwin
said, “but then I realized they must have been stolen.” .
. Baldwin's car showed no sign of forced entry, ac-
cording to police reports. It was parked in front of the

Baker-Davis-Gillam quad when it was broken into.
“I did think this could happen in Lexington,”

Baldwin said, ‘fFor- that reason, I usually lock my car

when I park oﬁ' campus. I just didn’t do so on that

g . All of the items‘ were returned to Baldwin aﬁer the
trial, except for two CD5 which never surfaced.

Before the trial, Kessler told the Phi that he was
leaving Lexington and going out west to visit friends
after the trial. Kessler quit his employment at Evans
Dining Hall after his arrest in early March.

 

   

 

PAGE 2

 SALARY  
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

must release all salaries. Randleman argues that the
release of only‘the top ﬁve ﬁgures for private institu-
tions is misleading.

‘‘It would be more palatable if this was universal,”
he said. “That is, selective release of such ﬁgures lacks
context.”

A handful of private schools deﬁed the law and with-
held their data last year. Some religious schools felt it
was not appropriate to have salaries made public. Other
schools with no federal funding reasoned that the gov-
ernment has no reason to know this information.

Although W&L resents having to give up salary in-
formation, it will stop short of such drastic action be-
cause it is illegal and punishable by substantial ﬁnes.

The University has no objection to the publication
of aggregate ﬁgures, because individual salaries are not
divulged. The average W&L full professor earns
$76,900, 14 percent above the national average. Asso-
ciate professors earn $53,500, 7 percent over the na-
tional average. Fox said that such competitive wages
attract high caliber professors.

The Chronicle study uncovered much larger sala-
ries nationwide. Dr. John A Curry of Northeastern Uni-
versity in Boston received almost a million dollars in
compensation.

“That is a lot of money for anyone, certainly for a
college president  it is hard to imagine how he could
deserve it,” Elrod said.

3";

 SWIPING

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

equipped with the swipe card system.

The fraternity houses do not yet have the system,
but, “that would be excellent,” Young said.

However, the system is not cheap; the original in-
stallation of the central system in Security and in the
freshman dorms in 1995 cost about $800,000. The
Gaines and Woods Creek systems cost about $100,000,
Young said.

Although rumors have circulated that residents who
are not connected with the University obtain swipe
cards to use the weight room, Young says this is un-
true. Only students and staff members can obtain
swipe cards.

Each card is speciﬁcally programmed with the iden-
tiﬁcation number of the student or staff member. The
scanner in the swipe station found outside a dormi-
tory door reads that number individually.

This database of ID numbers is updated regularly.
As soon as one graduates or leaves the staff, the number
is discontinued, but the name of the person and ID num-
ber remain in the database for identifaction purposes.

Young gave the example of a student who gradu-
ated two years ago.

“This man came back for a visit, and tried to enter

Graham-Lees,” said Young. “The door wouldn’t open .

for him, but his name, ID number and year of gradua-
tion showed up on the main terminal, in addition to
the exact door which he tried to get in.”

Blakelock stuns
Birdwhistell in
bocce debut

BY DEAN DAVID HOWISON

SPECIAL TO THE RING-TUM PHI

The ﬁrst round of the Class of 2001 W&L Bocce Tour-
nament produced a stunning upset as Carly Blakelock led
her Grahan-Lees team to victory over the pre-season favor-
ite Birdwhistells. After splitting the ﬁrst two min-games,
the Blaklocks and Birdwhistells locked up in an epic decsive
third game. Facing match point elimination with only one
throw leﬁ, Blakelock launched a shot from thrity feet that
struck the pallina and blocked Birdwhistells’ wining posi-
tion. Following Blakelock’s effort, the Birdwhistell team
of Dan Birdwhistell, Hugh Rabb, Brent Walker and Brian
Eachus fell apart, throwing several balls off the Lee-Jack-
son Filed in frustration. The ﬁnal score was 12 to 3.

In a magnanimous gesture, W&L Bocce Ball Commis-
sioner David Howsion granted the Birdwhistells a special
dispenation and permitted the team of Carly Blakelock,
Alexis Berstein, Carin Ritter and Nathan Urquhart moved
to the second round and established itself as the team to beat.

The next match will pit the Trey Overdyke team against
the Jennifer Strawbridge team on Wed., Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. on
the Lee-Jackson Bocce Ball Field. \

 G H OSTS
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

The building on the northeast corner of Nelson Street
and Lee Avenue, now Mountain Copy Graphics, is also
famous for its superhuman sightings. An anonymous
faculty member who has been here for “500 years” calls
this the “Home of the Uncooperative Ghost.” He attended
a séance there, but no ghost appeared.

A friend of Lexington resident Katie Letcher Lyle had
a supernatural experience in one of the apartments above
that building.

“He was terriﬁed one night to wake up to see a man
peering over him,” she said.

The apparent ghost then descended into the ﬂoor as if
he were descending down a staircase. A search for the
previous owner revealed that a stair case was once lo-
cated at that spot.

More stories of local myth and mystery can be found
in Anne Knox’s book, “The Gentle Ghosts,” published
by the Brandon Publishing Company of Lexington, Va.

BEER

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
ration of alcohol to blood and sobriety tests.

After the ﬁrst hour, most of the participants’ BAC’s were
lower that projected. Many students also passed the sobri-
ety tests which included following the tip of an ofﬁcer’s
finger and standing on one foot for 30 seconds.

“People lose the ability to judge and they feel more in
control as their alcohol level gets higher,” Horton said.

Ofﬁcer Mark Riley said most of the students he catches
on drunken driving charges have been drinking for several
hours. He said although having one drink greatly increases
a person’s chances of having an accident, that those plan-
ning to drive should drink no more that one drink per hour.

After the second hour of controlled drinking, more than

A half the participant had BAC higher than .08 percent, which

is the legal limit for operating a motor vehicle in Virginia.
The highest was .14 percent and the lowest .044 percent.

The levels depend on a person’s weight, sex how long
it’s been since he/she last ate and what they are drinking.
Typically carbonated mixers speed the alcohol absorption
process, said Horton.

Since alcohol is distributed in body water, and women
have less body water than men, a woman’s BAC will be
greater than a man of equal weight.

Overall the participants and organizers felt the evening
was a success.

“I would like to have had more demonstrationsj’ Horton
said. “Students need to know how a standard drink is mea-
sured outside of this school.”

Senior Sunda Wells agrees.

“Most people pour Beam with a splash of coke, or a vodka
drink with a pinch of 0].,” she said.

A standard “mixed-drink” contains 1 and 1/4 ounce of
alcohol per glass. At W&L this can vary greatly depending
on who pours the drink.

1

 
  

. We

lT,ALI72§I\I
CLJ|Sll\l—£-

24 o/Vm yﬂam @9399;

540-464-5800,
I. l\l —

l I

IIOWS  

OCTOBER 27, 1997

 

PARENTS’ WEEKEND DESCENDS UPON

US YET AGAIN FRIDAY OCT. 31

Washington and Lee University will observe its 43rd annual Par-
ents’ Weekend on Friday, Oct. 31 and Sat., Nov. 1. Activities will be-
gin on Friday morning with open classes held by many of the academic
departments; parents are welcome to attend.

The Phi Eta Sigma initiation for sophomores, parents and advisors
will be held in the Leybum Library’s Northern Auditorium Friday at
3:30 p.m. The speaker will be Theodore C. DeLaney, Jr., assistant
professor of history at W&L. Other Friday aﬁemoon activities include
scheduled appointments with faculty and an open house for freshmen
and their parents from 4-5:30 p.m. at the Lee House. At 8 p.m. the
University Chorus and Chamber Singers will present a concert in Lee
Chapel. Saturday, parents are invited to attend a 10 a.m. report of the
deans titles “Academic and Student Life at Washington and Lee” in the
Commerce School Room 327 featuring Laurent Boetsch, dean of the
College and David L. Howison, dean of students. President John Elrod
will deliver the annual report to parents Sat., at 1 1:30 am. in Lee Chapel.

ENGLISH PROFESSOR DABNEY STUART

PUBLISHES SHORT STORIES

Dabney Stuart, S. Blout Mason Jr. professor of English at W&L has
published his 15th book and second collection of ﬁction, The Way to
Cobbs Creek. The new work is a collection of short stories, and has
been called “a book replete with wonders, of place, of character, of
feeling, a dynamic meditation on the mysteries of family, judgement,
mercy, being. These are works of poetry and power by a writer in full
command of his art.”

A volume of Stuart’s poetry was published recently by the LSU Press,
Long Gone (1996). It was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize, the fourth
such nomination for Stuart.

W&L ALUMNUS PRESENTS ONLINE

BANKING LECTURE

James S. “Chip” Mahan III ’73, founder and chief executive ofﬁcer
of Security First Network Bank, will speak in Room 327 of W&L’s
Commerce School on Thurs., Oct. 30, at 7 p.m.. His lecture is titled
“An Introduction to Cyber Banking,” and the public is invited to at-
tend. Prior to becoming CEO of Security First Network Bank, Mahan
worked for Wachovia Bank & Trust Company for 10 years until he
returned to his home state of Kentucky to become the president of a
Lexington community bank. Security First Network Bank,
www.sfnb.com, is the country’s ﬁrst entirely “online” bank, meaning
that it has no physical location except for the back ofﬁces that maintain
the network.

lg Ladies C502’ [mews
Kitchen Shoppe

   
     
    
  
   

   

. .2)
f/701' a//your coofiny needs

7/H Cutlery * Aprons * Bridal Registry,
Pizza. Accessories * Gadgets * Coolzboolzs
8 Coffee Essentials * Gilt Basleets * Gourmet Foods

/22 (Sou/512201172 (S/red [540] 464-36936’

app 0910990  

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing '
and Accessories

mﬁsmmbﬁ

Welcome Parents!

23 N. Main St.

Lexington, Va 24450 (540) 463-5988

   
 
   
 

Now Thru
November

  , 2nd!
/Aw t=<-‘=2:--F7‘7 ' #

Birkenstock Footwear..................ALL 15-25% Off!
Warm &fuzzy Fleece...................ALL 20-30% Off!
Sleeping Bags ....  ........ ..ALL up to 30% Off!
Internal Frame Packs...............ALL up to 35% Off!
Gor—tex Rainwear....................ALL up to 25% Off!
Patagonia Underwear.......Buy 1, Get 1 Half Price!
Assorted Vests (Hunting, Travel, etc.).........$20.00l

All Winter Coats, Ski.Parkas............SAVE $30.00!
Sel’ cted Tents, Hiking Boots and Bikes on Sale

Rockfish Gap Outfitters

Route 250
Waynesboro
540—943— 1 46 1

as;

G0

  

 

Open Sundays
Til Christmas !

  
 
 

 

,\

)\-

1

   

 

OCTOBER 27, 1997

 

PAGE 3

Fertilizer, shovels, plants and ghosts

Wo.1-Mo.rt’s
horticultural
house of ham:

BY HILLARY COOMBS

MANAGING EDITOR

Raven House (It’s Haunted) is not as scary
as the construction mess around the soon-to-be
Lexington Super Wal-Mart, but it’s certainly a
lot more fun.

‘‘It was cool when the spiders were coming
down and stuff,” said Chris Hall, 9. “I don’t think
there was any really scary stuff, though.”

Whether there’s any “scary stuff’ depends
on who you ask. All Keith Burley, 5, could do
when he came out of Raven House was repeat,
“It was scary.”

Ghost guides greet visitors to the haunted
house, which opened Oct. 3 in the Wal-Mart
Garden Center. Each guide tells the funny story
of his demise and then leads visitors through the
30-by-60-foot house.

Local artist R.J. Ogren, whose studio created
Raven House, describes the project as “a cross
between Disney’s ‘Haunted Mansion’ and R.L.
Stein’s ‘Goosebumps.

“lt’s all based on a script, ghost guides, a
lot of humor and fun scares,” Ogren said. “The
way you really scare people and make it funny

don’t expect.”

cause Ogren believes that

family tradition,” Ogren said.

and hopes that by then the

Raven House closes on
from Nov. 7 to Nov. 15 as

A FRIGHTENING TOWNIE welcomesguests
into the Raven House, Wal-Mart ’s haunted
Garden Center. HOLUSTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

guides through the scenes

CD Alum Michael Sokolowski
releases debut instrumental album.

BYMLGOOCH

STAFF Wizmza

“In November Sunlight,” the debut CD of
the instrumental group “Soko,” reveals a style
of music similar to the Charlottesville scene
where it was spawned. The listener hears
traces ofthe jazz-rock experimentalism which
has dominated the Charlottesville scene since
the late ’80s. 

In fact, Leroi Moore and '3’.
Tim Reynolds of Dave
Matthew’s Band has of-‘< ~.
ten played with “Soko”
and Dave himself per-
forms on “In Novem-
ber Sunlight.” The
debut album is a re- ,7
freshing mix of up— i
beat piano melody‘
paired with a solid
blend of inspiring
bass and drum
rhythm.

M i c h a e l
Sokolowski, the
band’s composer and
pianist, believes that pure in-
strumentalism gives the artist freedom to com-
municate emotionally with the listener with-
out the distraction of words. His music exudes a
unity derived from the trio’s»organ playing.

Although occasionally the music seems
drawn out and vague, it always reforms to a

ern music industry.
The history of “Soko”

music that he plays now.

in

   
 
    
   
  
  
 
   
    
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
  
 
  

4!"

have

I; “Soko” is

nity bands.

Lexington music stores.

  

BY GINGER PHILLIPS
STAFF Wanna

0 you ever wonder if all those things you stay up way too late at
night studying will ever have any real signiﬁcance? What better
way to find out than to experience those cultures once seen only in
postcards and pictures. Washington and Lee of- 
fers a wide range of opportunities for students to

0

without making it disgusting is to set them up ,
purposefully and have something happen they

Ogren spent four years working for Walt
Disney World as an animation artist. He and his
wife, Suzanne, moved to the county after he de-
cided to open his own studio. They relocated to
Lexington out of a love for the Shenandoah Valley
and the accessibility of interstates 64 and 81.

There’s no blood or gore in Raven House be-

Instead, the ghosts and ghouls he thinks were the

traditional stars of Halloween come alive in the

house through black-light special-eﬂ°ect painting.
“What we’re creating is a haunted house in the

And they have. Ogren says that in the week
they’ve been open, only two children have refused
to enter Raven House. People of all age groups, from
infants to the elderly, have taken the guided tour.

Most of the guides are local high school students.

“lt’s like getting paid to have fun,” said Leslie
Gordon, a Rockbridge County High School student.
“I like to scream when I know something’s coming
up just to make them scream.”

According to Ogren, Raven House averages
about 100 guests a night. Many are people who came
to shop at Wal-Mart. The store makes an announce-
ment about the haunted house every 15 minutes.

The house has had visitors from as far away as
Charlottesville. Ogren attributes that to Raven
House’s ad in “Visiting Lexington and the
Rockbridge Area,” the Lexington Visitor Center’s
guidebook. He plans to run local radio spots adver-
tising the house during the last week in October

averaging 400 to 500 visitors per night.

Raven House is open from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m.
daily. Some of the “scares” work best with a crowd,
so go during the peak times of Friday and Saturday
night. Visitors can get $1 off the $3 price of admis-
sion when they bring in a canned good for the
Rockbridge Area Relief Association.

effect Christmas attraction. Guests will follow

featuring the wicked Professor Frost. Santa Claus,
his elves and reindeer will also make appearances. ‘

Basking ‘In November Sunlight’

soothing and uplifting theme. “Soko” should re-
ceive its highest praise for its true originality. For
although the band’s sound can be traced to the
Charlottesville genre, “In November Sunlight” de-
parts from the standard regurgitation of the mod-

’83, started out playing in a band called “405" while
he was a student here at W&L. It was during his
college years that Sokolowski discovered the style of

After,-a nine year hiatus ﬁom this style,
' the gifted composer and pianist

’ met a bass and drum rhythm
duo that had played together

3 band has played with vari-
., ous artists and its members
done much to launch their
careersas professional musicians.

prospect of returning to Lexington for a gig,
and their laid-back style ofmusic would certainly

present a healthy change from the token frater-

‘‘In November Sunlight” is now available in

 

   
    

they’re desensitizing.

“Kids can go through it.”

(Professor George Ray). L()(lI.\‘l;' U1«‘/«'/«.‘u.4AN/Sr/it 1/A

BY ANDREA EWING
Assoazm; E)rroR
The search for inner peace is the theme
of Uncle Vanya, presented by the Washing-
ton and Lee theater department this week.
Issues of ﬁdelity, feminism and environ-
mentalism are woven through the story of a
family in late nineteenth century Russia. The
audience feels the characters’ unease as they
deal with jealousy,
love and hatred. As
Chekov writes, “There
is something wrong
in this house.” The
unsettling feeling es-
tablished in the first
scene lingers until the
final bows.
Chekov’s play
centers on the concerns
ofthe intellectual elite.
An elderly professor
and his young wife
come to stay with the

professor’s brother-
in-law on his estate in the country. In the
ensuing drama, conflicts arise as people
fall in love.

I saw the dress rehearsal for the show Oc-
tober 23rd and was duly impressed. The acting
ability of the students amplified my fascination
with the play. The entire cast was well chosen
and did a splendid job. Appealing time-period
costumes and a remarkably simple set added to
the perfonnance.

The staging enhances the tension of the play

haunted house will be

  

Oct. 31. It will reopen
a black-light special-

of an adventure story

begins when Sokolowski,

for two decades. And
i o, in Charlottesville
in 1991, Michael
_o k 0 l o w s k i ,
Johnny Gilmore
and Houston Ross
,. fonned the band who

eventually called
t h e m s e l v e s
“Soko.” Since 1991, the

enthusiastic about the

MARIA (Megan Johnson '98) tries to prevent a confrontation between Vanya (Zach Hanks ‘98) and Professor Serebryakov

Johnson Theatre recreates

any

I. 'l'() '['Hl:' RING-7'!/M PHI

by bringing the audience in touch with the
lives of the characters. The show is staged
in—the-round style with the stage in the cen-
ter and the audience on all four sides. This
allows everyone in the audience to have a
better view, but calls for the actors to play to
all sides...

The principle character is Uncle Vanya,

played by senior Zach

 

3 ll
e ers Hanks. Vanya is a doleful

man who cannot find love
and puts his life on hold for
his brother—in-law, the pro-
fessor. Hanks plays a be-
lievable embittered old man
and makes the
audience feel
the pain of the
character.

Dr. George Ray plays pro-
fessor Alexander Serebryakov,
an old man who believes he is
the center of the household. A

19th century Russia
hypochondriac, he makes his

wife and family wait on him

and and foot. Ray’s portrayal adds comic relief
to an otherwise very serious production.

I was perhaps most impressed by Erin
Mullaney, senior, as the professor’s young wife,
Yelena. Mullaney’s talented performance con-
veys the frustration of an idle woman trapped in
a loveless marriage. Yelena’s situation derives
from her sense of duty to her husband, which
prevents her from leaving her marriage.

PLAY REVIEW

I1C

    

Mitchll CD See VANYA page 4

W8L’S WORLDWlD€ CLASSROOM

Students who have done it agree, you can

ited number of exchange programs with universities in Japan, Denmark,
Hong Kong, and England.

Generally, over 100 W&L students study abroad each year. The majority
go abroad during the spring tem, and a relatively small number of students

choose to leave forithe full academic year. “Students enjoy being here at W&L
so much that they are often afraid of being gone too long,”

Director of International Education William Klingelhofer said.

study and work around the world —— from learn- Study abroad opens This fall, W&L students are studying in such dis-
ing Spanish in Madrid to studying Shakespeare in up the worldfor parate places as Ireland, Israel, Ecuador, Austria, Mada-
London. gascar, Hungary, Denmark, and France. Students study-

W&L presents several study abroad programs Students-" ing abroad for the full year have gone to South Africa,
during the six week spring term, which begins in mid- Venezuela, Scotland, and Taiwan. If a student desires
April and ends in late May. Students can travel to _Wl-[ll-am Kl]-ngelhofer to study in a country which is not part of any W&L

countries such as Germany, Italy, Spain, France,
Poland, and England. The university also has a lim-

 

program, numerous colleges in Virginia and around the
nation offer programs which are accepted by W&L.

77

broaden your mind

 
     

o

ith a trip

Despite the fact that W&L offers a greater variety of opportunities than
other universities, only a small number of W&L students actually study abroad.
Klingelhofer believes that the ﬁnancial requirements for these trips are one
reason for this tradition.

And because of the International Education Ofﬁce was established only
this year, it has not been as easy for students to access information about study
abroad programs in the past. Since international study has not been a part of
W&L’s past culture, there has been little communication between students
who have studied abroad and those who might be interested in such an oppor-
tunity ifthey only had more information.

Klingelliofer says, “Study abroad opens up the world for students in very
concrete ways.”

Senior Kelley Totten learned this fact on her trip to France during the

CD See ABROAD page 4

 

 
 

  l  '\ , I _., I ,_ _";“_=I:‘I7/
LEXlNG’i'6N:'QA EAAESHSITE‘ .

OCTOBER 27, 1997

 silatest releas
ards From’ the Road.” A

the essence of a‘ Rayburn show
comedy, the songs and the e

(D SONYA
(Shelley Adams
‘98) comforts
Vanya (Zach
Hanks '99) after
everyone has
left them. L()l/[SE
UI~'lv‘h'l.MAN/
SPEC/A1. 'I'() THE
RING-YUM PHI

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3

piness he feels.

Johnson Theater, because of the staging.

Junior Shelley Adams plays the plain Sonya, Vanya’s niece
and the professor’s daughter. She is in love with the doctor, but
he does not know she exists. Adams’ moving monologue re-
veals a girl who longs to be beautiful, yet who knows she is not.

Only a few tickets are leftfor the Saturday of Parents’
Weekend, so reserve yours‘now. The show is held in the

The doctor, portrayed byjunior Drew Higgs, is a tired,
sensitive man who longs for a different life. Dr. Astrov
drinks incessantly, his only way of dealing with the unhap-

See the play 8 pm.
Mona/2 y or Tbcsday in
the Lenfed Centa.
Yhere W171 Ix’ a special
P.zn’:‘n£s* Wedrend
pezfonnmce 2 p.m.

° S7tu1d7}/.
Tickesz 4638000

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER e CO.
INVESTMENT BANI<ERS

INVESTMENT BANKERS TO THE MIDDLE MARKET

BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER Ed’ CO IS THE PREMIER PROVIDER OP MERGER
AND ACQUISITION AND PRIVATE PINAN CE EXPERTISE TO THE MIDDLE
MARKET. OUR CLIENTS INCLUDE PRIVATE EQUITY GROUPS
AND DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL CORPORATIONS.

WE OFER A TWO-YEAR ANALYST PROGRAM OPEN TO
MOTIVATED UNDERGRADUATES WHO HAVE A
DEMONSTRATED RECORD OF
ACCOMPLISHMENT.

]OIN US FOR A COMPANY PRESENTATION.

 ABROAD

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3

winter and spring terms last year. She
took classes not offered here at W&L,
and her learning extended beyond the

four walls of the classroom to the his-'

tory, art, and architecture of France.

“The cultural approach gave me
a different perspective on what I was
learning in class,” she said. “When I
came back to W&L I could see a parallel
between my experiences in France and
the classes I was taking here.”

Totten made the decision to be-
come a French major after her ex-
perience abroad. This supports
Klingelhofer’s theory that the best
way to reinforce language study
here at the university is language
study abroad.

Study abroad also provides an
excellent opportunity for personal
growth. Heather Cook, ’98, studied
at the University of Reading in En-
gland last fall. “The experience deﬁ-
nitely made me more independent,
and I had the best time,” Cook said.
She believes that studying abroad is
an excellent chance to meet new
people from all over the world.

Students who study abroad on
non-W&L-sponsored programs will
receive credit for the courses which
they take in foreign countries; how-
ever, the grades themselves are non-
transferable. Tuition is paid directly
to the program, not to W&L.

For all W&L-sponsored pro-
grams, fees are paid in addition to
regular university tuition, and finan-
cial aid is applicable. Certain pro-
grams require students to undergo
speciﬁc preparation for their upcom-
ing trips abroad. Those programs in-
volving foreign language study often
require students to meet with native
language assistants and participate in

How are you? Fine.

cultural infonnation sessions before
they go abroad.

The international education of-
ﬁce is doing a great deal to increase
participation in the study abroad
programs. Students can access the
library of study abroad materials
available in the IEO in the ofﬁce,
located on the second floor of
Tucker Hall. A web site is in the
works which will make information
on international study more acces-
sible to students.

Klingelhofer hopes that students
will think of international education
in a broad sense and consider intern-
ships and job opportunities as well
as university study. “A real under-
standing of other people’s cultures
and societies gives students the in-
ternational perspectives and skills
to help them in the marketplace,”
he says. “There is virtually no
market in which international skills
are not important.”

SENIOR HEATHER COOK met a
Yeomen Warden at the Tower of
London when she studied abroad.
PHOTO (.‘()URTliSY or Hl:‘ATHER COOK >

What did you do today? Nothing.
Anything exciting happen last weekend? No.

Find out what your
child isn’t telling you.

6111: King-tum ﬁhi welcomes you to Parents Weekend. Since 1897, we've
covered all aspects of W&L campus life.
A subscription to the Phi costs only $30 for a full year (25 issues).
Send your name, address and a $30 check to The Ring-tum Phi, University
Center, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

THEATER AT LIME KILN

presents

FOLKTALES BY FIRELIGIHT

October 29-31, 7 p.m.

in the Kiln

Parents will enjoy a night of 5CARY -TALE5, 5P00l’)’ 50NG5 and lots of
laughs under starry skies.
‘And they may even “treat” you for telling them about it.

Adults $4
Children $2

Come in costume, get in for 1/2 price

Call Subway ioraPaIiy Sub
, orParly Platter. You tell us how
.. long you wanlyour Party Sub-
and we'll make it.
And we'll stuff your Party Plailer
with your favorite subs-sliced in
tasty 4" portions. Save our number.
And lalklo us when is party lime.*

PARTY LINE.

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1997, 7:00 PM
UNIVERSITY CENTER, ROOM 114

ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1997

RESUME DROP DEADLINE -- NOVEMBER 6, 1997

IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO ATTEND THE PRESENTATION, BUT WOULD LIKE TO LEARN
MORE ABOUT BOWLES HOLLOWELL CONNER a CO. PLEASE SEE OUR COMPANY
BROCHURES AT THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT OEEICE,
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT WWW.BHC—CO.COM, OR CONTACT MICHAEL HOWLEY,
CAM DYER ('96), JUSTIN DARDANI ('96), OR NATHAN MYERS (’97)

AT (704) 348-1000.

‘Advance notice required

Subway Lexington
453 E. Nelson St.
_4’63-3322

BOLES HOLLOWELL CONNER e CO. CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

 

OCTOBER 27, 1997

RESULTS

Football (2-5)
Sat.: Sewanee
W&L

Volleyball (10-8)
Tues.: RMWC 0
W&L 3
W&L 3
Sewanee 3
3
2
3
1

48
14

Thu.:

W&L
Averett
W&L

C. Newport

Sat.:

Women’s Soccer (13-1)
Wed.: W&L 10
E&H 0
RM 0
W&L 1

Sat.:

Men’s Soccer (7
Tues.: VMI
W&L
W&L
RM

)

-2

0

1

Sat.: 1

2
Men’s X-Country

9th of 25 at Gettysburg
Invitational

Women’s X-Country

16th of 25 at Gettysburg
Invitational

AHEAD

Football
Sat.: Home at 1:30 vs.
Bridgewater

Volleyball
Sat.: at C. Newport

Men’s Soccer
Wed.: Home at 3:00 vs.
Roanoke
Sat.: Home at 1:00 vs.
Denison

Women’s Soccer
Wed.: ODAC 1st Round

Men’s & Women’s
X-Country
Sat: ODAC Championships

 

Sewanee rolls over
the Generals, 48-14

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
———?— smr Wm

ash ington and Lee im proved
their record to 2-4
after they destroyed

Hampden-Sydney 29-7 last Saturday.
Leading the way for the Generals was
running back, Hanley Sayers, who
gained 112 yards on 20 carries and
also had two touchdowns. Sopho-
more quarterback Christian Batcheller
followed up his record breaking per-
formance against Davidson with an-
other ﬁne game He was 12 for 19,
completing for 141 yards and two
touchdowns, a 49 yarder to J.T.
Malatesta, and a 6-yard strike to fresh-
man Wes Hardy.

Washington and Lee took the lead
late in the second quarter with a saftey
and they led 16-0 at halftime. The
Generals would add 2 more touch-
downs in the second half and
Hampden-Sydney would get their
lone score in the fourth quarter on a
19 yard touchdown pass to Thomas
Ransom from Karl Tuhey. The loss
dropped Hampden-Sydney to 0-6.

The Generals saw their two game
winning streak dissapear on Saturday
as longtime rival Sewanee rolled over
the Generals 48-14 in Sewanee, Ten-
nessee. Sewanee gained an impres-
sive 539 yards on the ground as the
Generals defense simply could not
stop the Tigers running game.

The loss dropped Washington &
Lee to 2-5 and Sewanee improved to
4-3 with the win.

The game was close early as the
Generals took a 7-6 lead after fresh-
man Hanley Sayers scored on a 39
yard touchdown with 9:01 left in the
first quarter. That would be the last
time the Generals would see a lead
however, as Sewanee tallied 35 con-
secutive points on their way to vic-
tory. The Generals were kept out of
the endzone until the fourth quarter
when Sayers scored his second touch-
down of the game, this one from 2

ports

PAGE 5

Women’s soccer
withstands first loss

Suffering its first loss to Lynchburg, the
Generals come back strong, setting new record
of 13 season victories

BY FRANCES GROEERG
—““"*"“'—“'_‘:‘ STAFF \WRl'1‘ER

the women’s soccer team. Last

Wednesday, the team suffered its
first loss of the season to Lynchburg,
but came back strong to win the re-
maining three games. As a result of
the Generals’ efforts, the team ended
their regular season 13-1 overall for
the season and 8-1 in the ODAC tour-
nament.

This past weekend against
Randolph-Macon, the team set a new
school record of 13 wins in a season
by defending the six-time defending
ODAC champion by a score of 1-0.
With the win, the Generals broke
RMC’s 69 game ODAC unbeaten
streak, which dates back to 1991. The
last game RMC lost prior to Saturday
was also against W&L. In defeating
the Yellow Jackets, the Generals also
set a new school conference win
record of eight.

The game was scoreless until the
ﬁnal six minutes, until freshman Mar-
garet-Hunter Turner passed the ball to
senior Erica Reineke, who booted it
past the RMC goalie Carrie Plunkett.
Despite the fact that RMC outshot the
Generals 14-6 and won 13 corner
kicks to W&L’s one, the team was still
able to pull out the victory. When the
ﬁnal buzzer sounded, the scoreboard
showed 1-0 in favor of W&L. Sopho-
more Stephanie McKnight and fresh-
man Lauren Harris, W&L’s two goal-
ies, recorded a combined seven saves
and recorded their sixth shutout of the
season.

To celebrate the momentous vic-
tory, the Generals decided to “bare all”
and participate in a ceremonial run of
the Colonnade.

Against Emory and Henry on

It’s been a down and up week for

yards out. Sayers ﬁnished with 143
yards on 27 carries and 2 touchdowns,
a lone bright spot in an otherwise dis-
mal Generals perfonnance.

The Tigers dominated virtually
every major statistical category. Ti-
gers players rushed for more than 98
yards, including Craig May who
rushed for 121 yards on 9 carries, an
impressive 13.4 yards per carry. All
in all, the Tigers ran the ball 68 times,
passed only 9 times and averaged 7.9
yards per cany as a team. The Tigerss
strategy was simple: run the ball right
down the General’s throats and see if
the General’s defense could stop them.
The answer turned out to be an obvi-
ous no and Sewanee ran on the Gen-
erals all day long.

Washington and Lee will see if
they can get back to their winning
ways when they host rival
Bridgewater next Saturday, at Wilson
Field at lp.m. Next week is parent’s
weekend and like homecoming, the
Generals will have some extra incen-
tives to do well.

_W&L vs. Sewanee

Game Stats

Thursday, junior co-captain Karin
Treese boosted the number of school
records she holds to four as the Gen-
erals defeated the Wasps by a score
of 10-0.

With her four goals and three as-
sists of the game, Treese set a new
W&L single game pont record with
11 and a record for the most goals in
a season with 22. She also broke the
record for most points in a season with
the game with 49. Treese holds the
record for all-time goals as well.

In the game, W&L took control‘ at
the very beginning and held onto it
for the duration. Less than 10 min-
utes into the game, the women had
already extended a 3-0 lead with a
goal from Treese in between two from
Ginny Jemigan. By halftime, the lead
was increased to 8-0 with goals from
senior Erica Reineke, senior co-cap-
tain Lorraine Taurassi, two more from
Treese, and one from freshman Lind-
say Williams.

This still wasn’t good enough for
the Generals. Treese and freshman
Courtney Nolan would each net a goal
in the second half to give W&L their
second 10-0 victory of the season.

Last Saturday, during the read-
ing days, the team played against
Notre Dame of Maryland. Though
the score was a little closer than that
of Emory and Henry, the Generals
pulled out a 3-1 victory.

It was Treese, who once again
started the team on the right foot,
scoring an unassisted goaljust over

10 minutes into the game. The

score stood 1-0 in favor ofthe Gen-
erals at halftime and through the
first part of the second half until
Nolan scored another unassisted
goal to put W&L up 2-0.

Notre Dame didn’t give up, how-
ever, and rebounded with a goal from

Casey Hentz to decrease the Gener-
als’ margin to 2-1. Erica Reineke
sealed the victory as time expired with
a goal off a pass from Nicole Johnson.

Sophomore goalie Stephanie
McKnight played the entire game, re-
cording five saves in the non-confer-
ence win.

Wednesday the 15th was a clash
between two undefeated teams—W&L
and Lynchburg. Someone had to win,
to break the other’s record. Unfortu-
nately for the Generals, it was
Lynchburg who came out on top.

For just the second time this sea-
son, W&L failed to get on the
scoreboard ﬁrst, as Kerrie Swarts of
Lynchburg scored from the top right
comer of the penalty area to give LC

1-0‘lead 14 minutes into the game.
Latrisha Wahe scored for Lynchburg
just six and a half minutes later to ex-
tend their lead to 2-0.

The Generals mounted a comeback
with a goal and a successful penalty
shot from Treese off a foul on fresh-
man Margaret-Hunter Turner, tying
the game at 24:32.

The tie was broken midway
through the second half as Swarts of
Lynchburg scored her second goal of
the game. Then, after numerous
chances for W&L to tie the game once
more, Lynchburg counterattacked on
a failed W&L comer kick, and Kristen
Kowit sealed the game at 4-2 with her
goal.

“What it came down to was that
(Lynchburg) played 90 minutes and
we didn’t,” said co-captain Taurassi.
“I think we needed the loss to wake
ourselves up a little. Lately, we’d
been just settling for the win. Now
we’re back to playing our game.”

Next on the schedule for the Gen-
erals is the ﬁrst round of the ODAC
champoinships.

H()I.I.IS'I'I;'R H()Vl:‘Y/PH()’l'0 EI)I'I‘()R

FRESHNEN WATER POLO players took a jog around Evans Dining
Hall in their uniforms on Thursday to raise support for this weekend ’s
Mid-Atlantic Championships. After crushing U VA, 24-5 on Friday, the
Generals dropped a thriller to West Chester, 9-10 on Saturday. They
claimed 3rd place yesterday by beating Georgetown, I6-8. In their first
year as a club team, the General ’s 12-2 record forcefully demonstrated
their ability to compete on the varsity level. Let's hope someone noticed.

all it baseball’s version of
the Ice Bowl.

The 1997 World Series
will be remembered as much for
the elements than for any of its on-
field action. It was so chilly in
Cleveland (a balmy 38 degrees
during Game 4) that the Jacobs
Field fans must have thought that
the Browns were back in business.
Rumor has it that Bart Starr was
warming up in the bullpen and
hockey legend Gordie Howe was
on the on-deck circle, trying to
make his token appearance in yet
another decade.

Strangely enough, the
warm-weather Florida Marlins
took two of the three in Cleveland
despite the raucous crowd and the
teams. The epic Game 4 lasted

THE‘. BIG I-‘AN

BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER

The Frozen Field
of Dreams

so long (four hours and 12 min-
utes) that Thanksgiving turkeys
were on the clubhouse tables. The
longest World Series game ever
without Mitch Williams also fea-
tured the wackiest ninth inning in
Series annals.

Aided by three Cleveland er-
rors, the Marlins scored seven
times in the ninth to take a com-
manding 14-7 lead, then watched
the Indians storm back with four
runs in the bottom of the ninth
before the final out was recorded.
Despite network executives
moaning about two small market
teams and horribly low ratings,
this was a very competitive World
Series. Cleveland and Florida
were not the best teams in base-

«[159 SeeBIGFANpage6

FRESHMAN ANDY ROBINSON (#35) andjunior Trey Carr (#15) watch
anxiously as the Generals drop their first game in three weeks to Sewanee
48-14. This loss came after an impressive streak of two victories against
Davidson and Hampden —Sydney. 1‘10LI.ISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

W&L S
1st downs 13 26
Rushes/yds. 37173 68/536
Passing yds. 87 104

Off. plays/yds 65/260 77/643

Time ofPos. 28:41 31:19

Interested in
Women’s Club
Squash?)

  Contact Kim Russell
462-4745

<CDJock Shorts.

'- Men’s soccer loses tough OT battle -
- Volleyball collects two key victories -
- X-country runs them over at Gettysburg -

Men’s Soccer

With the rain falling like the anger
of the soccer gods, death came sud-
denly to the men’s soccer team in
overtime play on Thursday.

A messy, bitterly fought battle with
Randolph-Macon had resulted in a 1-
1 tie at the end of regulation play.
During the game, the Generals had
fought back from a 1-0 lead with a
head goal from sophomore Ben Th-
ompson. After the goal, Washington
and Lee had produced several chances
to put the game away, but fate decreed
that a win for the Generals was not to
be.

With only four minutes expired in
sudden—death overtime, Randolph-

Macon’s Scott Eley fired a shot which
proved to be the death blow for Wash-
ington and Lee. Like a poison arrow,
it ﬂew straight and true to W&L’s far
post, beating both the defense and the
goal-keeper.

The 2-1 loss to Randolph-Macon
came as a big let down for the W&L 1
team, who hadjust come offofa huge 3
win against crosstown rival Virginia
Military Institute. Ben Thompson‘
(who has been on a scoring spree as ‘
of late) scored the game’s only goal .
in the second half. The shot was a
hard, low liner from outside the eigh-
teen yard line that beat VMI Keeper
Jonathon Cabrera to the far post.

While it looked as if VMI would

 Se€_lOCK SHORTS page 6

 

    

PAGE 6

CI; JOCK SHORTS

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5

score an easy goal on an open net just
three minutes later, All-American
Mikel Parkermade an incredible play,
clearing the ball and saving the game.
The more physical VMI team out shot
W&L 14-10, but keeper EJ. Murphy
proved magniﬁcent with nine saves,
putting a plug on VMI’s attempts to
score.

The men’s soccer team will play
their ﬁnal regular season league game
against perennial power-house
Roanoke on Wednesday. A win
against Roanoke could give the Gen-
erals the spark they desperately need
as they prepare to enter post-season
ODAC play.

For the Generals, the key to beat-
ing Roanoke and winning in the
ODAC tournament rests in the ability
of goal scorers Sam Chase, Jamie
Parker, and Ben Thompson. The de-
fense anchored by Mikel Parker can

keep the games close, but the Gener- '

als must now turn on the offense if
they wish to win.

Junior Sam Chase became the all
time leading Washington and Lee
point scorer and tied the mark for the
most career goals last week in a game
against Savannah College of Art and
Design. However, Chase and fellow
forward Parker were held scoreless in
the last two games against VMI and
Randolph-Macon. Ifthe Generals
hope for ODAC success, these two
must ﬁnd a way to score

Volleyball

It was an up-and-down week for
the General’s volleyball. On the
Thursday during Reading Days, they
lost their ﬁrst regular-season confer-

. ence match in over two years to

Guilford 16-14, 11-15, 4-15, 15-8.
They re-entered the race for the
ODAC championship, however, by
defeating Randolph Macon, which
was tied for second in the conference
with W&L, on Tuesday night 15-6,
15-11,15-8 and Hollins15-4, 14-16,
16-14, 15-7 on Thursday night.
Those two wins set up the match of
the season Thursday night in the
Warner Center against league lead-
ing Eastern Mennonite, who the Gen-

 

  

  

‘: grim 

 

 

7' it-iii: .‘.."....ie-zit-.-mL.. .I


~ ':"-‘tar:

erals have already defeated once. A
victory would ensure a third-straight
regular season conference champion-
ship for the Generals.
The loss to Guilford snapped a 23-
game winning streak in ODAC regu-
lar season play, which dated to a 1995
loss to Bridgewater. The match was
also signiﬁcant in a positive way,
though, in that senior Hilary Martin’s
team leading 11 kills made her the
ﬁrst player in school history to record
1000 kills in a career. With that loss,
the Generals dropped into a tie with
Randolph Macon for second in the
league with a 6-1. They took sole pos-
session of second in their subsequent
victory over RM. Despite the 3-0 mar-
gin, each game of that match was awell
contested affair. In game two, in fact,
the Generals had to rally from a 9-1
deﬁcit to claim victory. In game three,
5 service aces were the biggest differ-
ence, three of which were by sopho-
more Nancy Reinhart. Overall, the
Generals were led by junior Megan
Snodgrass, who was particularly domi-
nating in game two, and Reinhart with
8 kills apiece. Senior Holly Thomsen
had 7 kills, while Martin tallied 6. Ali
Beard, senior, had 24 assisits.
Following that victory, the Gener-
als traveled to Roanoke, where they
defeated Hollins in four games.
Snodgrass was again dominant on of-
fense, tallying a career high 18 kills.
Katherine Kline, a freshman setter, had
a career high 33 assists, as well. With
the win, the Generals improved to 8-1
in the conference. The squad left the
ODAC over the weekend when they
traveled to Christopher Newport. The
Generals ﬁnally broke through against
a regionally ranked school, something
they have failed to do all season, when
they defeated #8 Avarett. 11-15, 16-
14, 8-15, 15-11, 16-14. Beard had
46 assists, while Reinhart had 23 kills
and 21 digs. Martin and Snodgrass
also contributed with 20 and 16 kills,
respectively. They then defeated host
Christopher Newport in four, winning
15-9, 16-14, 13-15, 15-12. Reinhart
again led the offense with 21 kills, and
Snodgrass added 13 kills and 3 ser-
vice aces. Both these strong wins
against tough regional competition

should give the Generals boost of .

conﬁdence when they host Eastern
Mennonite in the ﬁnal game of the
season on Thursday.

Ruff Hewn - Ladies
Eagle’s Eye
Pendleton

Woolrich - Ladies

Corbin - Ladies

Men’s Ruff Hewn
Firehose Pants

T 

X-Country

Washington and Lee’s men’s cross
country team traveled to Gettysburg,
Pa. on Saturday to compete in the
Gettysburg Invitational. -With a team
score of 296, the men chalked up an
impressive 9th-place ﬁnish out of 35
teams. The leading runner for the
Generals was Jason Callen who ﬁn-
ished 20th out of 223 runners with a
time of 25:36. Other top runners for
the men were Will Olson, who ﬁn-
ished 28th overall with a time of
25:49, and Greg Ruthig, who ﬁnished
38th with a time of 26:06. The team
will return to action on November 8th,
when they make a run at the ODAC
championship.

The women’s cross country
team, like their male counterparts, also
traveled to Gettysburg to compete in
the Gettysburg Invitational. The
women ﬁnished 16th out of 33 teams
with Natasha Dorofeeva once again
leading the way with a time of 18:21
and a 15th place overall ﬁnish. Other
top runners for the women’s team were
Carson Flowers, who finished 63rd
with atime of 19:23, and Lisa Brennan,
who ﬁnished 81st with a time of 19:49.
The ladies will take this weekend off
and resume competition November 8th
at the ODAC championships.

SOITS

OCTOBER 27, 1997

 BIG FAN

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5
ball this season, but who cares?
They won the games when it
counted most and put on a good
show for the fans. After all, when
was the last time there was an ex-
citing World Seriesl?

It is just too bad they couldn’t
play in better conditions. Cold
weather will become the norm in
future World Series unless the own-
ers reduce the season from 162
games to 154 games or axe a play-
off round. The current situation
doesn’t work. With the season start-
ing at the end of March, several
games this year were postponed be-
cause of snow or cold temperatures.
(‘Fortunately for baseball, the
Rockies were not in the World Se-
ries this year amidst the major
snowstorm in Colorado.) And hav-
ing eight teams in the playoffs in-
stead of four makes a long season
useless.

Of course, ifthe TV bigwigs had
their way, they would cancel the
season and put the Braves and the
Yankees in the Series every year.
They would also consider starting
postseason games at 1l:0Op.m. in
order not to disrupt Must See TV.

College football pollsters are at
it again. Three years after they

slighted Penn State for the national
championship in favor of Nebraska,
history could repeat itself. Each
time, it has happened in similar cir-
cumstances. In 1994, Penn State led
at Indiana 35-14, but the Hoosiers
scored two late touchdowns to make
the score deceptively close at 35-
29.

Pollsters looked at that score and
then saw Nebraska hammer Colo-
rado, so they dropped the Nittany
Lions to second. Earlier this year,
Penn State lost a share of No. 1 af-
ter Florida beat another opponent
82-6. After regaining the top posi-
tion for one week, Penn State got
knocked around at home last week
by an undermanned Minnesota
team, trailing 15-3 midway through
the fourth quarter.

The Lions could and should have
lost, but they rallied late to win 16-
15. But after watching Nebraska
blast a similarly mediocre Texas
Tech team at home, the pollsters
voted the Cornhuskers No. 1. What
makes it worse is that because of the
bowl alliances, Penn State and Ne-
braska could both go undefeated
and not meet for the national title,
like in 1994.

This madness has got to stop. In
most sports, a team remains cham-
pion until it is beaten. Margin of
victory and quality of play counts

for nothing. But not in Division 1
football. While Nebraska and Penn
State may argue over No. 1, teams
like Florida State, North Carolina,
Michigan and Washington State may
wonder why they’re not ranked
higher. The easy solution would be
to eliminate the polls and institute a
playoff system similar to most other
levels of collegiate sports (including
D11 and III football). It would be an
improvement in college basketball.
Again, unlike basketball, Division
1 football has no power poll in place
to detemiine strength of schedule, so
teams are almost encouraged to
schedule non-conference cupcakes
and win brownie points by running
up the score. Coaches like Joe
Patemo who will not annihilate other
teams are usually burned. As knowl-
edgeable about football as the

coaches and writers who vote may be,

the championship should be decided
on the ﬁeld. A 16 or 32 team play-
off over four or ﬁve weeks should
be instituted, along with scaling
back the regular season by one
game.

To make everyone happy, the
bowls could be used to stage the
playoff games. The bowl game to
establish the true, not mythical, na-
tional champion could then be held
every New Year’s day, right after
Game 7 of the World Series.

Beginner Walk Trot
Windy Kimble - 1st
Beginning Walk Trot
Canter

Stacey Parris - 6th
Advanced Walk Trot
Canter

Cassie Shaner — 4th
Intermediate Equitation
on the Flat

Lindsay Gatling - 4th
Intermediate Equitation
over Fences

Christing Starer - 6th

The W&L Riding Team

Results vs. Hollins College

Lindsay Gatling - 4th
Open Equitation on the
Flat ‘

Sarah Rector - 1st
Lydia Nichols — 4th
Britta Gaffey - 4th
Anna Lowden - 6th
Open Equitation over
Fences

Britta Gaffey — 3rd
S'arah Rector - 4th

OVERALL SCHOOL
PLACEMENT - 6th

Results vs. Virginia Tech

Beginner Walk Trot
Windy Kimble - 4th
Beginning Walk Trot
Canter

Stacey Parris - 5th
Advanced WalkTrot
Canter

Cassie Shaner - 3rd
Novice Equitation on
the Flat

Ryan McDaniel - 2nd
Kim Russel - 6th
Novice Equitation over
Fences

Kim Russel - 6th

Intermediate Equitation
on the Flat

Christine Starer - 1st
Lindsay Gatling 5th
Intermediate Equitation
over Fences

Lydia Nichols 2nd
Christing Starer - 3rd
Open Equitation on the
Flat

Sarah Rector - 3rd

Lydia Nichols - 4th

Britta Gaffey - 4th

OVERALL SCHOOL
PLACEMENT - 6th

All

Corbin Suits / Sport Coats
Ruff Hewn - Men’s
Gitman Shirts
Alynn Ties
Woolrich
Northern Isle Sweaters

Parents

Serving Washington 82 Lee Since 1926

Thank You For Your Support

In appreciation - we are offering ,
ALL SPORT COATS, BLAZERS AND SUITS

A Smash Hit!

20% Off
LADIES B

LAZERS

See Our

Ladies Window

f€&fﬂ€t§t

Great Sweaters

The College Town Shop  

 

 

PAGE 7

advertisement

, 1997

OCTOBER 27

§

1

\ \\

yo U if yo  
1-SOOIT E L 

e
b
M

U

0

C
......H.

andabpl

TOWER 

NORTHWEST AIRLINES.......................

THE SHARPER IMAGE

an:nnnuunuuwnpunnuqtqnunn

9.
I
.1
u
I
1
n
I
u
u
-
u
u
u
u
p
.
u
-
n
a
n
n
u
n
n
u
u
.
u
w
I.
.1.

DISCOVER

 

Cash 

bﬂll U000 0000 0000

 

To am omine, go to www.d iscovercard .com

@1997 Greenwood Trust Company. Member_FDfC. ‘Up to 1% paid yeemy based on annual law of pu:chas‘_es.

 

 

 

 

   

 

Q Q  I 9 I f
1 O D I n 9 I n Q 0 r The D ysfunc fional Family Circus
I I l ",3
- Pole Position ;
i I I1 I played a lot of Atari 2600 when I was growing up. 
- I loved those games. Pole Position was the first Atari it
game I owned. I could sit and play for hours, racing '
around the same track six times per game while yellow
PAGE 8  27,  rectangle opponents slid by. =_
.—r,;x,»'/Jvg _ 

We are always §,e‘i Buds ROW
representatives of W&L 

An incident recently came to our attention The games Were dirt simple Pao-Man, Donkey ii
that greatly disturbed us and made us realize Khmlli and (fourngﬁfls °ih°ra gﬁiiliesgresﬁnhed the Slim:

. n e ve over . a

that even when we leave Lexington’ we bear iihraeeepliyers basketball hagd just twdeanad scgiiiiieietiniiiis C
the burden of either holding up or breaking games dldnrlinnve any_ ill,
down the reputation of Washington and Lee. I had just gotten an Atari track ball controller when I

On the drive up Interstate 81 over reading Nintendo Game ei_ong- it Changed eVer>’thing- Games
days’ a group of W &'L Students almost ran one now had levels with different challenges to overcome

at each turn. War games now had real soldiers with I
of our Staff members Off the road‘ They real guns shooting real bad guys. Sports teams started '5
proceeded to weave in an out uncontrollably, to ﬁeld all ofthelr players
almost running everyone else off the road as I found someone in my neighborhood who had a
  passed people on the shoulder and Nintendo and said goodbye t0 the Atari. The Nintendo
came within inches of tractor trailers. games were just better. Although Nintendo meant leav- .
. mg behind my favorite games, it also meant having V

our Staff member lost them for a while’ only more fun I learned to enjoy the new games even more
to see them pulled over on the side of the road, then the old eneS_
urinating in broad daylight. A lot of other people made the switch as well. Al- A

 car was a menace to the road and Could tl’l0I.lgl1 Atari Still has llCS place On the Internet, Nintendo _ . _ . i 
have Very well injured or killed anyone on it. ' :n;lteSr<I:1gadll]il<:gSl1teh:c021fd1<‘:‘.ta'lr‘lie popularity ofthe newer "SO, l Said, take YOU!’  hands offa lllm, he's mine! And
The W&L sticker and a fraternity sticker were y This is why I don7t undersland why so many Wash- the Wench Slapped me!
Droiriiiieiii Oii iiidir Vehicles and anyone driving ington and Lee students don’t like the new network
on Interstate 81 saw that these irresponsible system and Pegasus e-mail. ’ ’‘
young people were Students at W&L_ I know a lot of people who are frustrated with their I h i  a u  i C O n  .

When we leave this campus, we do not cease 2?“; agcess tl° Shﬁrelf and i’::S,"‘:lali) d“"e5'bI 315° k:‘h°w p p g

. oo eo ewoaveno rie ea

to be W&L students. It IS a badge that we feel mail) Pigs is enough for them g Sus ecause ey - I I l g
carry wherever we our travels take us. Last . lt’s the same as the switch from Atari to Nintendo. fo r rocrastl n al] 0 n l u r 0595
year, the White Book Review Committee and The new campus-wide network system has many ad-
the Executive Committee clariﬁed the concept Vaiiteges 0Ver the old sYstem- Now, all students enjoy
of honor outside tho Lexington al~ea_ ‘ :'nrl:iy;rliiil'1:lli;d;:: “’ii° °°“id "59 the Science 5erV°r . In attempts to find copies of The step even beyond their absurd pester- vage the program. The sources of their g

ln Short, if a W&L Student Commits an ’ - _ Ring-Tum Phi or The Trident, many mg of Virginian freshman. But two information are murky at best.
h . 1‘ t. h t h t. You ddii iiidVe i0 °3i'i'Y diskettes aii}’iii0i93 Y0“ iiaVe procrastinating students might have pages into this periodical, it became ap— Liberty includes a number of other

0.n(_)r V10 ‘1 Ion W e_n a , ome or oil vaca 1911’ §’°“r °“'ii  drive i0 Save Your iii°5- ir_Y°“ 53“ 3 iiie parent who wrote it and what it aims articles whichtiyto orient students with

this is grounds for dismissal. The idea behind in the H: drive somewhere on campus, you can get to it was ll is no more than abrllllanl piece the ideas 0fLlbeltarlalllsm_ The articles =
this is that we should always conduct ourselves firiywhere on eempus Without ha‘/mg to deal With an of propaganda. deliberately focus on topics about ,
in an  mariner.  reckless 1nt:)nnedl§.I-y diskette‘ f t . I  tlle Way      members Of Gelleratlon  haVC
drlvln ‘S 0b -0 Sl not an honor V-Olaf , -t epeii ‘rig °ri 3f°“r Pr° e55°r5= Y0“ Cari ri°W “iii in cal was disseminated - anonymously the most concerns and interests, like the
. til ‘:1 u y 1 Ion 1 _Y°“r iiies °ie°rr°iii°aiiY arid have them reiiiriied r° 3'9“ and furtively - completely disturbing. Internet, school choice and the environ- .
is no Onora 6' _ _ _ in the same Wa}’- Professors can Put ﬁles Youlneed In noticed the appearance of a third More profoundly, its content and the merit. Upon reading these articles, it is

Honor should exceed the guidelines of lying, public folders, rather than post them at websites and newspaper on calnpug_ way ll ls presented melts most nnnen,_ obvious where the wrlters stand on g
cheating or stealing and should permeate every require you to download them- You now haVe another Liberty, as it is called, is not a ing aspects. Its purpose is to look like these issues. I
aspect of our liVeS_ Merely the threat of get_ wayrlllo comnflunicate with ‘)1/ourtprofelssors. t W&L publicztion, itsdairival on a newspaper_ Libemlxianisili, in g.ener-a1, demands
t- k- k d t f h l h ld lb th _ eviiew egasiis e‘m3i sYs em 3 soiepreseii s an campus can 6.attI"1 ute to a stu- Newspapers, according to main- Constitutional literalism, and conse-
rleng lcf 6  0 hSC 00  Cu I10 e e 111‘-1pI'O\I6I‘nC'I1t. It has   features Ofplne,  11565 3. den[-run organlzatlonl The polltl- Sn-earn nouns, Should  nonnally do) quently the end ofthe Federal govern- g

ason (_)r ac mg Onora y‘ friendly P°iiii'aiid'°ii°i‘ iiirerriicd ii 5 iiidre like Other cally aware might have already provide information in anunbiased and merit control and inﬂuence over all as- "

Washington and Lee has become a popular Windows programs you would use. It includes some known of the existence of another erlllenl nlannen By using this logical peels of American life_ Republicans
place to apply in past few years, as it becomes Oiiier iiiiPr°Veriieiiis_°Vei Piiie as Well» siicii as aii easier political group besides the Young progression, readers of this periodical find these ideas appealing for obvious
increasingly more dlfﬁcult to get in melznstof dOWl’1l10a(;.l1l‘lg attachments togylour letters.‘ Democrats and College Republi- associated the information in Liberty reasons while l)emocrats are attracted

As we gain more public attention this also Ninlzsn as We 3 ° _8iV° “P 0i" ijiiis 0_ eiiJ0)’ cans on campus. The College Lib- with“truth”wheninreality, it certainly to its laissez-faire attitudetowards gov- ,

. . . ’ do, We haVe i° giVe up our obsessions with “the ertarians have taken it upon them- is not. Since the publisher of Liberty is eminent imposed social values. I
pLltS US I'I'lOI'C 111 the pllbllC llght.  A7614./S and way things were” and the Pitlﬂ e~mail system t0 enjoy selves to engage in forms of ideo- not clearly acknowledged in the peri- HOWCVCI‘, the goals of Libertarian-
     NO. 8   the new Computer Configurations Oln Campus. logical Vvaffare and   odlcal,  exempliﬁes that the purpose ism are contrary to and a Subversive of

arts colleges. D0 Y0“ ihiiii<_iii3i Pine e'm'<1il is good enough for attempts to win members to their l for this publication is to remain secret. the American political and legal tradi-

It’s about time that we starting acting it Y_°“? was Atari r°°rbaiir with i°“r Players ‘iii eiicii Cause. It is obvious that it target audience tion, clearly seen in their position on 3

iide, good enough? Try Pegasus e-mail. Stop playing I admit to procrastinating and is college students. The front page ar- gun control. They demand the repeal
_ Se? Barrie and si3i’i.Pi3Yiiig _C°iiii”3- _Y0ii may eh‘ actually spending time reading this ticle, using Generation X jargon, states: of laws which ban or seek to control
“ Joy if more Besides, if)/011 tr)’ it and decide You don’t publication. Even beyond attempts “Social Security: A Raw Deal.” It uses the sale of weapons to anyone, mean-
like it, you h3Veii t lost an)"th1iig_- to divert my attention away from scare tactics to suggest to its audience ing criminals are Freeman groups as 
uOt€ Of  W€€k: Make the switch, or at least g1Ve the new systems 3 schoolwork, lwas suspicious about that the government has ineptly caused well. Yet this fundamental tenet of Lib-
iryr Ydiil iii:Ybeiil:i iiPAl00l_<ii_ig hack on Pills: thel some the intentions of this newspaper. I the end of Social Security through fis- eitarianism was not included inLiberty.
' ' Way Y0“ 00 39 0“ la“? it Was great W i 9 ii asieda immediately thought that it Was the cal irresponsibility and that a privatized Anyone want to guess why?
  but the newer games are always more fun. work ofthe College Republicans’ a system would be the best way to Sal-
2 I:
two of the urinals. D gt b  ' d k
on 0 er — our arents a rea HOW OU
- controlled drinking experiment participant  y p y y
If your parents bring you a gift-wrapped bottle of Jim 0 Make dinner reservations... for next year. less, except for one minor detail, like forgetting to "3
" ~ 0 Beam and dance at a band party until the cops break it up, The chances of finding a table at a restaurant in sweep the dust off your unused history books. Either ' \
   Parents’ Weekend is the perfect weekend for you. Of Lexington that doesn’t have a drive-thru window are way, your parents will mock your feeble attempt, so .
, course, if your dad has an afﬂnity for knee-high striped slim to none, so go to Roanoke or Staunton. If you don't worry about it.
Exeucifve Editors Courtney Miller socks and ﬂoral shirts, then you may be searching right enjoy talking to your parents, it’s anice chance to catch 0 Be honest with your parents. ll '
Managing Edgar ‘lI{"i:l‘;"ryZ::°0':)°n"bs now for a light ﬁxture sturdy enough to hang yourself up. If not, it’s a long enough trip to enjoy a nap. Don't waste your time trylng to convince your par- .
Ame,-we Edge, Andrea Ewing from.  0 Don’t bother cleaning up for your parents. ents that you spend every night in the library study-
  rom  '  Remember, you grew up with your parents, and ing until 2 a.m. (However, if you do study in the li-
News Editor K_athrYn Mayurnik  9’/'  21 ar 00 . they remember if you were a slob or not. Parents brary every night until 2 a.m., please go out this week-
‘”&i’f9 E‘r”°’5 %Zrl’h°i(‘;°r'am »..../gg, El-lc swensen 98 can smell a last-minute cleanup from miles away. end in order to spare this university’s fine party repu- I
Oplrm-on & Edllon-a, Ed,-,0, Frances Gmberg But if they can smell your dirty clothes from miles tation.) Sooner or later, no matter how much you beg,
Sports Editor John Stewart Most parents fall somewhere in between these two ex- away, it might be a good idea to do a little cleaning cajole or bribe your friends, they will let it slip about V
A gap)’ gjiror Clill Woolley tremes, and most students have similarly mixed emotions anyway. the time they found you slumped over a toilet, passed 
ssl. opy ’ itor Holly Estes P W k _ - G ll ll h l _ - l - 9 b cl 11- k_ 5
           r
n ine itor Tom Wadl ' ' ’ ’ ' '
ow age D-hall delicacy, but then again, didn't we spend 18 is so spotless that your parents immediately figure Show your parents that college parties aren’t 
‘Business Manager Rebecca Cuny years waiting to get out from under their thumbs? To help out that this is the only time all year you’ve cleaned drunken orgies filled with loud music. On the other 
C'::Z:‘;’r'$r’:”£;’§:: lililflltgilszvgcrztlifl you cope this weekend, here are some handy suggestions. your room. In the second case, your room is spot- hand, maybe you should just tell them to stay home. f
Asst. Advertising Editor Steven Klotz ' ,I
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during

the undergraduate school t W h’ gt d -

Lee University, Lexington,\ii::i'rnila. lﬁaisridilngifblriinhe  are you golng to be for Halloween?

Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and j

subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee  3

Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and

Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phiis otherwise

independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible

submissions and letters. All submissions must be

in the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center,

by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition.

The Ring-tum Phi’ reserves the right to edit

sybmissions for content and length. Letters,

columns and "My Views" do not reﬂect the opinion

of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does

not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its

staff. This newspaper observes current court

deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
wa§§i‘gt°” “Gil L-‘ii U§$3r°s’§“y “ ' h ” “B 1k‘ ” “C ' Larry ” tr - =r »
Tel:l)nrlg(§p1rer,(51:g)1)I1;6g2_406O Gansta Bitc es. a ie. ousin . A Roman Princess 
il:j,):li,$,4gl,:i(,§,f,l:_oe:?, - Jenny Webb & -Riley Greene ’0O -Jack Alford ’00 -Heather Schweninger ’97,§
Lora Ellison ’0O

 

l

  

CCFOBER 27, 1997

 Lettersto The Ring-tum Phi

1‘? c‘om'in"g ¢utn is a lifetime thing dents in Virginia, attend an all-women’s college for
 ‘   , * . ’ I , its educational beneﬁts. Not, as insinuated by the
. i—Editqr;’s_nore.- ’ The author wished tharthis letter be author, for the weekend hook-ups or even the slan-
prin, d n0ctobér 11, National Coming Out Day, The der from other females who attend co-ed institu-
Ietfe aﬁrotideliveredto our oﬂice until this past week. ti0115- It has been PT°V"-11 in Study after Study that
ypyg »ap“o'1io'g”'izeﬁ;,-. any inconvignence this might have women who attend single-sex colleges are more
‘at r 1’ = : - — likely to attend graduate school, earn a more com-
1' petitive salary, andtalre on upper-level management
positions with greater ease. From all these beneﬁts,
I elected to not be surrounded by men seven days a
[week and atterulllo " S College,‘ of . which I am a
proud resident; I,frlid‘_rtot;elegt to attend Hollins and
sit in a sociallc ~.foui7-years either.
'1 S 1' heifrtjicle the author
‘ts: .é;1.1;-fs=ma.1..e 291-

  
  
 
   

     
 
  
 
 
       
  

 

Father. . I am a Gay Grandfather. I I am
 ‘of W&LeClass of ’53. I am a
umatiilséihgl  .     I 1 -   I
o’r’rr1e V V

coming out not and has not been a
"ng.’It is andtshallgcontinue to be a A
thing VThe,proce‘oss' consistsgof an endless _
b t ' ..Eac steptaken contributes to
 stair-*wo‘r’ai; and most‘ _

   
    
 
  

  
   

     

 

      
     

 

an tpairticuliirly-_, 15 National Coming Out ’" J
 tall and erect in front of afmirror,  V,
'‘d¢l>.thS.i°f.iI1Y-.€Y€Si3tllli15fesliﬁgthgg ; —. ..
tours f my face with my 'ﬁrigers_and the  of L 
hands,-and -with heartfelt Prideand Humility. ‘ A I 
ei e»re:_flected.back:. r_-   f _ _ ,1  .j   :

   
 

 
 

. ii?  ‘fzir Tit  T  __

  
     
 
  

    

 

 

W8; W mejn-'1narrow-iiniintlded. _

‘iiiiién'ti‘6-niiigi I-‘i‘Rioad“ ‘

   
     

   

 ,  _ . , , , _ spend timewith us,"‘inlorally-upstanding‘womeiif: 
.9.-‘F15’ 3.t3e.nt1°.11 T4151 We-,e1E§.“E1_VV1..‘}1§-’ .Ho1linsstudents_have7a;ld,t;to?offer-tofotlieizworrient.1.

‘ University College, Oxford
&
‘ Washington and Lee University

Student Exchange Program  

I It has recently been determined that
Washington and Lee’s student exchange
program with University College, Oxford,
i will continue to operate, although areas
of study supported by University College
will be more limited than in the past.

Professor Carl Kaiser
Williams School of Commerce
Room 313
463-8617

‘Rising juniors who are interested
in this program may contact:

- editorial 8: opinion

 

PAGE 9

Microsoft satellites, Bill Gates,
and the Jefferson server

The new network. Just mention-
ing it can turn students and faculty
alike into Jell-O. Stand on that spe-
cial spot in front of Lee Chapel, and
not only will you hear someone in
front of Washington Hall talk, you’ll

  

. josh Heslinga ’98

hear voices all over campus asking
things like: “I put my Net where?”
and “Isn’t it ironic that Jefferson is
slowly eliminating Liberty?”

Take this simple true/false test to
see if you too have an acute case of
network-itis.

l) DVA stands for the new Digital
Video Adapter that you can use from
any networked computer.

2) Jefferson is just the ﬁrst step to
the REALLY powerful servers,
Hamilton and Adams, which come
on-line next year.

3) All you really need to know to
use the new network is your name,
class year, and any word over ﬁve let-
ters long.

4) In exchange for switching the
campus to Windows 95, Bill Gates
bought W&L a super-secret satellite
capable of locating and electronically
tagging students who forget to log out.

As you might guess, the ﬁrst, sec-
ond, and fourth statements are false.
DVA stands for Dirk van Assendelft,
a man you should get to know well,
as he is the new student network ad-
ministrator and your ﬁrst resource if
you forget your Jefferson password.

Second, while the faculty will soon
have a server similar to Jefferson
named Madison, reliable sources say
the rumors of more centralized Fed-
eralist computers to be run out of a
secret room in the Commerce school
are totally unfounded.

Finally, any of you following the
news would know that Bill Gates’ spy

satellites observe Janet Reno, not
W&L students.

It might surprise you that the third
statement is true. Buy some ﬂash
cards, memorize your name, class
year, and password of your choice,
and you can login successfully.

Hopefully, everyone knows how to
login as themselves after two months.
Those of you that have been using the
guest login actually do need to login
as yourself now, since the guest login
has been severely limited in number
and capabilities.

Speaking of passwords, if you
know your password but want to
change it, you can from any non-lab
network computer. Use a friend’s
personal computer (in any dorm
room) or stop by the HelpDesk in
Tucker Hall. Choose Start, Run, and
then type “setpass” in the box. Once
you’re logged in, everything becomes
easier. You don’t care about new fea-
tures? Fine. Just choose Liberty or
Netscape from the Start Menu, and
nothing’s new.

What good is all this new stuﬁ‘?
Remember when you had to be in a
certain lab to use one of 20 university
hard drives? Now there are only three
network drives, available in any pro-
gram across campus, and almost all
programs can be used from any lab.

The H (or Home) drive points to a
“home” directory that’s your personal
space. To create a web page, just cre-
ate a directory called public_htrnl and
save all of your web ﬁles there. People
can then access your page at http://
student. wlu. edu/-youmame/.

You should save your main page as
index.htrn, the default ﬁle for the Web
address above. Since you can save di-
rectly to the H drive from any program,
using Jefferson for your Web page
eliminates the cumbersome FTP pro-
cess necessary on Liberty.

You can also save other ﬁles to your
home directory on the H drive and stop

carrying a ﬂoppy disk. Be careful —
there is a limit of about seven mega-
bytes here. If you try to store large
sound ﬁles of Obi Wan Kenobi’s ad-
vioe, you’ll run out of space quickly.

The K (or Shared) drive is open
space. Need your friend to proof-read
that ftmd-raising letter to female alumni
from Alaska who played lacrosse? Just
put it here, and he can open it, change
it, or copy it from any computer on the
network. One word of caution: this isn’t
long-terrn storage. The K drive is de-
leted about once a week.

The L (or Work) drive is for class
work. Techno-sawy professors can set
up a class directory and save assign-
ments for you. Note: if the assignment
will take time to do, save it to a ﬂoppy
disk or your home directory ﬁrst. Once
it’s saved to the L drive, you’ve turned
it in. And there’ s no way for your ﬁiend
with arms like an anorexic gorilla to pull
it out of your professor’s electronic in-
box.

What else is new? Each lab has la-
ser printers you can use at 10 cents a
page from Netscape, WordPerfect, or
whatever. You even get $20 from the
University to start out. (If you multi-
ply $20 by the number of students at
W&L, it amounts to one person’s yearly
tuition increase.) You can check your
balance when logged in by moving the
mouse over the little dollar sign in the
bottom right comer.

There’s also Pegasus e-mail, which
lets you cut and paste, not to mention
send and receive e-mail attachments.
There is a limit on the size of e-mails
that pass through Jefferson, so you must
exchange large ﬁles via the Shared
drive. When you’re done, just choose
Start, Shut Down, and then Restart the
Computer.

Finally, remember the most impor-
tant thing: if you have problems, dial
the HelpDesk at XHELP. All they’ve
ever wanted to do with their lives is help
people. Give them a chance.

    

    NIGHT owt. MUSIC 
xington's orginal, RL altentie msi stop.

25 S. Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va 24450
, Between The Palms
 & Domino's Pizza

Open 11 a.m. ‘till 7 p.m.
Monday—Friday
11 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Saturday

   
 
  
 
 
 

464-4050

NEW & USED
 COMPACT DISCS
fCASSETTES & LPs

Order by e—mai|: nightowl@rockbridge.net

Night Owl will match
(if we don't already beat)
any downtown CD store's
sale price on any item!

Error

 

Ask for our chef,
Mike Goff

See our website at http://Wwwwebfeat-inc.com/sheridanlivery
55 North Main Street —- Call for reservations 464-1887

Welcome

Porenls

Célleoliam
die/pa//uyacca/siorv
an/a/z/a#s4Lte

ii 

llilllllllllllllillﬁ

A r\-=l()Rl ( Rffllll

\= f »‘\PPR(_.)»\C.ll

 

lNonh Mo Steel

‘n
lexinglo ,\/llllllll

Open |\/lon—So’r. 10-6

Limited Edition Civil War
and W&L Prints

Specializing in Museum Quality Framing

 

 

PAGE 10

 
 

By Kzitliiyniyumik
X—l'ile< ”‘I‘l'€S[)0n(lI

Lastyear, my roommate broke her nose. I think she wanted
me to take her to the hospital, but she ended up walking to
Stonewall Jackson in the snow. The fact ofthe matter was that
this was in the middle of Super Bowl Sunday-—Super Bowl
Sunday’s episode ofthe X-files, that is. And I wasn’t about to
miss seeing the freak who can regenerate .his entire body and
afterwards bathes in tubs ofiodine.

OK. I know it’s a little psycho to be that obsessed with a TV
show, but I assure you that I’m not alone. The X-Files, and
shows like it, are becoming a national pastime. Science fiction
used to be reserved for
socially inept people
whose entire wardrobe
consists of Mr. Spock
T-shirts, but it has now
infiltrated the main-
stream population. Our
society in general has
becomes obsessed with
little green men with
big heads and big eyes,
and government con-
spiracy. At Six Flags
Great Adventure this
summer, the most popular prizes were I0-foot ﬂuorescent green
aliens in black cloaks.

And think about the some of the past year’s most popular
movies: “Independence Day,” “The Arrival,” and “Contact.” I
call this the “millenium syndrome.” Because the end of the
century looms before us, people are becoming more and more
fascinated with and paranoid about the supernatural. By the year
2000, Washington and Lee students will be suspecting that Pro-
fessor Brian Richardson is an alien from Vulcan.

And then there’s the phenomenon of science fiction actors.
Miraculously, they appear in other freaky shows after they’ve
been cancelled. David Duchovany, X-files FBI agent and babe,
played a transvestite FBI agent on the most bizarre show of all
time, “Twin Peaks.” Four other “Twin Peaks” veterans have
made token appearances on the “X-Files” including the dwarf
who danced and spoke in really messed upjargon. He appeared
in an episode that I saw last night, along with a man who was
covered in jigsaw puzzle tattoos and ate live animals.

Next week is the much-anticipated conclusion of last season’s
ﬁnale ofthe “X-Files.” It also happens to be the night that we
lay-out the Phi. I know what my priorities are.

9 The pitch: “lt’||
be like ‘Harvey’
meets ‘The
Birdcage.”’

 
     

  

 

  

By Alex Christensen
——-————P/ii Movie Critic

Boy, if nothing else has ever driven it home to me, “In &
Out” sure did: tailoring any work of ﬁction to a political view-
point sucks all the life out of it. I should have known before.

And I’ll take almost any try at comedy over “In & Out.”
Sure, it has its moments, but overall, the tone ofthe film is one
of nervousness. You can actually conjure up images of one of
the most talented screenwriters around, Paul Rudnick (“Addams
Family Values,” “Jeffrey”), sitting at his laptop thinking, “How
far will Hollywood go?” Instead ofusing that guideline to push
the limits, as he might have done to some effect, he has let it
keep the film from saying anything much at all, and also cut
away most ofthe real drama and humor that the film’s situation
would seem to suggest are ripe for exploitation.

In case you don’t know, the situation ofthe film is based on
the real—life Oscar acceptance speech made by Tom Hanks af-
ter his first win, for “Philadelphia.” In it, he thanked some of
his gay teachers by name. The makers of “In & Out” recog-
nized a great premise when they heard it, you’ve got to give
them that much. Their inspiration was to ask what might hap-
pen ifa teacher was outed who wasn’t out, maybe not even to
himself. So we have the story of Howard Brackett (Kevin Kline),
outed in a similar way by his former student, Cameron Drake
(Matt Dillon) just a few days before Howard’s planned mar-
riage to his girlfriend Emily (Joan Cusack). Though Brackett
denies being gay, he is finally forced to confront the truth after
being dogged by questions from tabloid reporters, including
the openly gay Peter Malloy (Tom Selleck).

So Rudnick sits down. with a bunch of 3x5s and starts free-
associating. “What would be great movie scenes we’ve never
seen before?” And, oh, he has a bunch ofideas. Spoof the Os-
cars. A Kline-Selleck kiss. Drama at the altar. Bing, bing, bing,
the ideas are coming like sausages off the conveyor belt. Un-
fortunately, because of the way he thinks he has to write the
movie for Hollywood to accept it, he knows he can’t get at any
truth. He has to skim the surface, go for easy conﬂicts and situ-
ations, and, in the process, he doesn’t write in a main character.

And that’s the main problem. The politics preclude creating
a three-dimensional main character, the necessary ingredient
for any successful dramatic enterprise, up to and including a
broad farce, which “In & Out” wants to be. That’s why it fails.
Howard Brackett is a cipher. Not a Capra-esque everyman or a
comedy-of—errors scapegoat-a-cipher. The humor of such a char-
acter lies in his being able to deceive himself for so long and
then suddenly being able to “discover” he’s gay without hardly
even blinking. It’s essentially a Jimmy Stewart role, Theodore
Honey of “No Highway in the Sky” or Elwood P. Dowd of
“Harvey.” But the Brackett ofthe ﬁlm has no comic depth with
which successfully to pull off this kind of non-transformation
transformation, which would trigger the comedy. And it’s not
Kevin Kline’s fault. He has nothing to work with except his
physicality, which he uses to full effect. Rudnick just hasn’t
been willing to let the audience feel Howard’s pain, to coin a
phrase, and so no one else in the film can respond honestly,
either. He thinks it would be too uncomfortable-for Hollywood,
for mainstream moviegoers. He’s wrong.

Still, there are many things to like about the film. In general,
the supporting performances are top-knotch. SeIleck’s likabiI-
ity and magnetic screen presence bring to his character a weight
lacking in any of the others. Selleck and Kline’s kiss is a won-
derful moment all the way around. Joan Cusack steals nearly
every scene she is in, especially her inspired breakdown se-

quence at the wedding. Bob Newhart and Debbie Reynolds are

also standouts, as the school principal and Howard’s
mother, respectively.

All in all, “In & Out” is a good time at the movies. There are
enough laughs to keep you in your seat and there’s enough good-
heartedness to leaven the tiiiiidity, but there’s not nearly enough
honesty and wit. Watch it, but then go rent “Beautiful Thing.”

 

 

Q

OCTOBER 27, 1997 T

I)’ 0 ii  :1‘ R0 b i n’s‘ 7
)‘ ,est_aurant
A ievlews .

  

_ Parents’ Weekend means shopping, parent’s ques-
tions, and eating out with mom and dad.

We have quickly become. familiar with the best
(and worst) dining options in the Lex Vegas area,
and thus we proudly present a brief list of sugges-
IIOIISI. Doug and Robin’s “Parents’ Weekend Great-
est Hits.”

A For varied fare, we suggest the Sheridan Livery
Inn, conveniently located downtown. Dinner meals
typically include salad and bread, and entree options
range from the delightful spinach chicken with pesto
to steaks and seafood.

The dessert menu offers delicious choices, and
the Inn boasts a subdued atmosphere, with soft mu-
sic and the soothing sounds ofa fountain.

_ If you seek a boisterous atmosphere, you might
investigate the options at the Palms. In addition to

_ sandwiches and drinks, the Palms has several delec-

table entrees, including the excellent filet mignon and
tasty seafood dishes.

Robin recently tried the chicken stir fry: a spicy,
hearty dish with a choice of baked potato, mashed
potatoes or vegetable on the side.

The Palms is also an excellent place for your par-
ents to meet with you and your friends later in the
evening for cocktails.

Oh, the places you’ll
go with parents in tow

The Southern Inn offers good food within easy walk-
ing distance. Under new ownership since last fall, the
restaurant has changed its offerings and improved its qual-
ity dramatically. The soups, salads and appetizers are
excellent beginnings for any meal.

An expanded entree menu is available on weekends;
the crispy chicken, barbecue pork chops and steak are
among our favorites, but there are many additional op-
tions. Portions are extremely generous, and the staff is
friendly and helpful.

Maple Hall offers fine dining if you are willing, or
able, to make the drive out past Lee—Hi on Route 1 I. For
big weekends the restaurant typically‘ offers a special
menu with three to four entree options.

Salad and dessert are included with each choice, and
the atmosphere is extremely elegant.

Prices exceed those at most in-town options, but the
experience promises to be memorable. We suggest ad-
vance reservations.

If none of these options pique your interest, venturing
outside the Metro Lexington area is an excellent option,
whether to Staunton, Roanoke, or elsewhere.

The big thing to keep in mind is to avoid the unknown;
your parents are paying, have them take you somewhere
that you know and love. For all the good places to eat in
Lexington, there are two more that are bad.

  
 

S€V€l’l

ONDAY ‘iv’ & TUESDAY 3 p.m. Uncle Vanya in the
Johnson Theater WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY nothing

24“

as interesting as the bands this weekend FRIDAY Q}

EX has Doug Clark; ZN jams with Doxy’s Kitchen; ZAE has

 

l"¥.i'E‘§u":'r“;:l$‘t’=.a‘f:.F '\'‘ﬁI§l.‘l‘1'I—. .. =‘~“f;.5,I.!1I7§§-v:'

Parents’
Weekend

Voltage Brothers; X‘I’—Right On
KA-Doug Clark; K2-The Convertibles; (DAT-Midnight Mov-

SATURDAY

ers; CDKZ-Blues Jones; I'IK<D—R&B All Stars; <DK‘I’-TFC

IF YOU THINK CARRYING A BRIEFCASE
5 IS WHAT IT'S ALL ABOUT.

ii‘.

SEE IF YOU HAVE WHAT IT

TAKES TO CARRY THIS.”

/t’s tough work to become a /eader in the corporate wor/d. it's even tougher to be a /eader
in our company. it takes strength, wisdom and determination. These aren't easy characteristics
to develop. But if you’re willing to try, then Officer Candidates School (OCS) 0
is your chance to perfect these ski//s and become an Officer of /\/Iarines. See
if you've got what it takes to carry the title — United States /\/Iarine Officer. 77ieR:w;71u-I’mud.Th¢-Mm-ines-.

MARINE OFFICER

If you qualify for our program you will not have to start at the bottom of the
corporate ladder. See Capt. Walker or Gysgt. Hebert at the University
Bookstore between 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. on 28 Oct. or call 1-800-542-5851.

 
 

COROLLA

 
 

THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT WE CAN
REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP US ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT
WENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLE THINGS LIKE
THE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER THE PAST 30 YEARS,
I OROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
ARS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT‘S ALL-NEW...WITH
H ORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
I LUMINUM ENGINE THAT‘S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
IT'S MORE ECONOMICAL...UP TO 38 MILES PER

GALLON HIGHWAY. COROLLA IS SAFER AND

 

Colonnade Club.

Hollister Hovey

    

,-{9Wl2E’THI3P¥-T} we wow» -\
M? ?‘2MBM?76iZ~ I/MIT ‘/EAIZIII.

   

.| -\  “ .

 

r-zti

o(o\

I2-E/W)’ F0?‘
401*/IE Moria}!

  

 
 
 

QUIETER, AND BEST OF ALL. IT STARTS
AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST
YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS
MONEY. WHAT A
REFRESHING
’ CHANGE!

 

 

TOYOTA oi/oicqolaq

 
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  

  

 

