E

Q

 
 

 

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 15

“A. “>".=-TS .3 . 1?

. ‘="i.<J:‘iN LIBHAPIY
.-\'cSr1ll\,o’lOi\l  LEE. UNIVERSIT‘
‘ CXINGTON, VA 24450

HAR0419$

“lfr me we 3* freer./”
NCY DRESS BALL
/I///I/1/21,4‘ ﬁnal? F/a//pa/tr, my]; and Jazz

U112 iltiug-tum lﬁlti

1998
4/1 /l@/U

 

Monday
MARCH 2, 1998

Alcohol abuse

dominates

State of W&L
open forum

BY Wm HARDIE

NEWS EDITOR

Alcohol abuse on campus dominated President John
Elrod’s informal “State of the University” open forum in Gaines
gatehouse Tuesday evening.

Elrod said that he thought the IFC “bring your own bottle”
policy was a good first step, but that further action needs to be
taken. “Hazing and alcohol abuse are  I should say, have
been  a serious threat to the integrity of the institution and
the well—being of its students.”

Elrod’s comments were led by questions from the 40 or so
students who attended, and covered a range of issues, includ-
ing the master plan, the class registration system, University
policy on sexual orientation discrimination, and concerns over
the increasing size of the student body. But questions about
alcohol just kept coming, usually prefaced by, ‘‘I’m sorry to
ﬂog a dead horse, but ....”

One student asked Elrod’s opinion of the decision by five
national fraternities to ban alcohol from their houses.

“I think this is a bad move,” Elrod said. He suspects it was
driven by fear of potential litigation by fraternity members in-
jured under the inﬂuence ofalcohol.

“There is no way they can enforce dry houses,” he said.
“Alcohol is a part of human life and has been for a very long
time. We need to teach freshmen to drink responsibly. If you
ban alcohol from houses, students will drink out in the county
like there’s no tomorrow.”

“Drinking in fraternity “houses isfme,” Elrod said. “But
students should remain conscious and in control and be able
to go to bed under their own steam.”

“The idea is not abstinence. The right idea is responsible
consumption of alcohol. Students shouldn’t drink responsi-
bly because ofthe law, they should drink responsibly because
it is the right and healthy thing to do.”

Another student pushed Elrod further to explain spe-
cifically how he plans to persuade students not to misuse
alcohol.

“The solution is incredibly simple,” Elrod said. “It is for the
people who are the leaders—the older people-to tell the younger
people, ‘don’t do it.’”

The dead horse had to be flogged one last time for Elrod to
give details of what he intends to do about alcohol abuse, but
still he did not say how or when his plan might be implemented.

“We have to go back to square one,” Elrod said. He said that
faculty, the administration and students must agree on a set of
very specific guidelines for responsible behavior. The student
body would have to agree to abide by those guidelines, and
would be frequently reminded of them.

There would follow an aggressive education campaign to
justify and explain the guidelines, and procedures would be
put in place to deal with individuals and groups who ﬂout
them. Individual offenders would first be given counseling for
alcohol abuse. If that failed, they would be disciplined and, if
necessary, suspended.

The disciplinary process would be the responsibility ofthe
students. “We can’t say no to drinking,” Elrod said. “We’re
talking about the student mind set here, an alcohol culture. It
is the students who make up that culture. You can’t change it
as outsiders.”

“We can’t do this in a few days, weeks or months. It will
probably take a whole generation of students to implement.”

Steering committee members put the finishing

Fancy Dress Ball Friday night. Construction is tak-

FLAPPER MANEQUINS LOOK ON 

ing place in the Pavilion, and the entire set, including a
touches to the elaborate decorations for the 1998 working fountain, will be moved to the Warner Center
on Wednesday.

Gaines Thanksgiving break
burglary suspects tried

BY ERIN MORONEY AND Wm HARDIE
j'——'—m STAFF \VRIIER/NEWS EDITOR

The Commonwealth’ s Attomey’s evidence, or lack
of it, determined the fate of the two Rockbridge County
teens charged with the Thanksgiving Gaines break-
ins. At a preliminary hearing Feb. 17, one was told he
would stand a full trial next month; the other was let
off with community service.

Jason Alestock, 19, of Lexington, and Thomas
Allman, 19, of Raphine, were charged with breaking
into Gaines Hall on Nov. 25. Judge Joseph Hess de-
cided that the evidence against Alestock was suffi-
cient to send his case to a bench trial March 4. Ac-
cording to his attorney, Ross Haine, Alestock will plead
not guilty to grand larceny.

But Al1man’s attorney, Bob Armstrong, persuaded
Hess that the evidence against Allman was too weak
to justify taking his case any further. Allman’s plea
was reduced to trespassing and he was ordered to
complete ten hours’community service.

Armstrong argued that the Commonwealth could
prove only that Allman was in the vicinity of Gaines
on Nov. 25. “An investigation concluded that he
[Allman] wasn’t actually in the Gaines building, he
was not in possession of any stolen property and he
wasn’t acting in concert with anyone else,” said
Annstrong.

According to Lexington Police Officer Fred Smith,
a man entered sophomore Courtney Yevich’s Gaines
apartment during the Thanksgiving break, and stole
her Toshiba laptop computer, a videocassette of Ju-
rassic Park, and a Nikon camera. Smith said that the
same day a man also entered sophomore Lance Clack’s
room. Clack’s roommate, Steve Straub, became suspi-
cious when a man walked in and asked where “John’s
room” was. He and several other Gaines residents who
had seen strangers behaving suspiciously called cam-
pus security, who called the police.

Security officers Scott Rowe and Tony Prince
caught local Eugene Jordan, 17, leaving Gaines,
then a minute later saw another man walking out of
the building, carrying the items taken from Yevich’s
room. Prince chased the man across the road to
the Lenfest center, where he droppedthe stolen

items and managed to escape. The police arrived and
arrested Jordan, who implicated three other men in the
break-in. Prince later identified Alestock as the man who
he had chased; Clack also identified Alstock, from a
photo line-up.

Just eight days before the Gaines incidents, Alestock
was charged with attempting to steal two locks, doors and
windowpanes belonging from the Fitzgerald Lumber Com-
pany in Buena Vista.

Alestock was found guilty and was sentenced to 60 days
in jail. Haine said that the punishment was harsh for that
crime, which is a misdemeanor. Alestock’s appeal against
that conviction will be heard on March 25.

Manning to
leave W&L for

headmaster
position in
England

BY WILL HARDIE NW5 EDUOR

In three months’ time Dean of the Freshman Program
Dennis G. Manning will be learning a whole new set of
freshman names, but this year it will 4,000 miles away.

Manning will leave Washington and Lee at the end of
the academic year. He has accepted the position of head-
master at a private school in England.

“He’s made an incalculably great contribution here and
we’re going to miss him,” said President John Elrod.

“I have agonized over the decision,” said Manning. “I
have loved it here and it’s going to be very difficult to leave.”

The University will conduct a nationwide search for a
replacement, who they hope will take over in time to over-
see next year’s freshman class.

Manning was offered what he called a “once-in—a-
lifetime opportunity,” to be headmaster of the TASIS
England school,just outside London. “It’s an idyllic set-
ting, a really magniﬁcent campus,” he said.

What will Manning miss most about W&L? ‘‘It’s the
people. I feel like I’ve been part of a family. I’ve tried to get
to know on an individual basis as many students and as
many people as I can from the W&L family and I will al-
ways treasure those relationships.”

“I will also miss the sense of civility among our stu-
dents. At least in daylight,” said Manning. “I will miss
least going to bed every Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
night worrying about students.”

Manning is renowned for his ability to remember the
names of almost all the students at W&L. “I have only met
the guy once, and he knew my name,” sophomore Jessica
Helm said. “It was really scary.”

Dean of Students David Howison will chair the commit-
tee that will search for Manning’s replacement. The posi-
tion of Dean of the Freshman Program will be advertised in
next week’s Chronicle of Higher Education.

“I’m delighted for Dennis and his family,” said Howison.
“On the other hand, it’s sad to lose an invaluable member
of the Washington and Lee Community.”

“This has to be one of the most interesting and ap-
pealing opportunities in American higher education,”
Manning said. “I am guessing there will be hundreds of
applicants. I think they will have no trouble finding some-
one superior to me.”

Howison said that Manning’s successor might not be
able to start work before August. If so, Howison would
have to work with Manning before his departure and then
with the successor, to ease the transition. “We have to

move efficiently but not rush this because we want to find

just the right person,” he said.

Manning’s newjob will start on July 1. “The month of
June for me is going to be given over to moving my entire
family, selling two cars and a house and somehow picking
up lock, stock and barrel and moving 4,000 miles away. It’ s a
daunting, daunting prospect,” he said.

“I’m so sad; he’s my favorite person,” said freshman
Sarah Riggs. “I think it’s a great opportunity for him, but
we’ll miss him round here.”

When buying a used car
means treading a minefield

BY GINGER PH1u.rPs STAFF W

Over February break, senior Andrew Ruppar went in
search of a used car. On his way back to school, he discov-
ered how scary the wrong decision can be.

Ruppar didn’t have much time to make a decision; his
previous car was irreparable after he slid off a 20-foot cliff
on Jan. 27. He also had to find a car for less than $5,000.
Ruppar bought a 1981 Jeep Wagoneer, which required a
few minor repairs.

On the way back to school, his car completely shut down,
forcing him to coast to the shoulder of the highway. Smoke
filtered into the inside of the _car, and oil leaked from the
engine. Not long after calling 9] l, Ruppar watched the en-
tire front ofhis car burst into flames.

Though it took two ﬁre-trucks to douse the ﬂames, Ruppar
still believes that buying a used car can be a wise decision.

“It’sjust one ofthose things,” he said. “Somehow the
oil or fuel hose must have cracked during the drive back,
and nothing was wrong when I had it checked. Ifyou need
a car and one that is cheap, a used car isthe answer.”

“People usually buy used cars because they want all
ofthe accessories that they could not, or don’t want to pay
for on a new car,” Mike Parker, owner of MP Chrysler Ply-
mouth Dodge in Lexington, said. However, he says that a

used car must be thoroughly checked out before any pur-
chase is made. He recommends taking the car to a trusted
mechanic. “All new cars get warranties, and there is a
reason‘ for that. Eventually the car will break. You just want
to make sure that the chances of that happening right after
your purchase are low,” Parker said.

The following are a few simple checks to keep in mind.
Listen to the engine and check for unusual noises. Look
for rust, mismatching paint and dents. Examine the tires for
uneven wear, which could indicate bad alignment or sus-
pension problems. Check the shock absorbers by leaning
hard on the comer of the car and suddenly releasing. If the
car does not continue to rock up and down, then the shocks
are fine. Check windows and doors for a close fit, and
carefully examine the car’s interior. Also beware of odom-
eter tampering, especially if the car appears to have had a
lot of wear and tear butthe mileage is unusually low.

As with any car purchase, whether it is new or used,
safety is a big concern. Small cars account for nearly twice
as many fatal accidents as large cars.

“I chose my car because it was bigger than my previous
car, which makes it safer,” Ruppar said. However, cars with
higher centers of gravity, like sport utility vehicles, are
more likely it is to roll over in an accident.

'pion
  rial

PAGE  0 MAR. 2, 1998

Keep course
registration off
the computers

It seems as though everyone has gone crazy for comput-
ers. The Internet is ﬂooded with web pages authored by
hordes of ’net enthusiasts. The frenzy over Microsoft has
turned Bill Gates, the least likely of heroes, into a celebrity.
And even my grandmother sends e-mail.

  David Balsley 99

With this excitement has come a drive to adapt more and
more tasks to computers. They now perform jobs that would
have seemed foreign to them just a few years ago. They have
replaced cashiers at supermarkets that offer self-checkout
lines. They help your younger brothers and sisters research
science reports. In the future, computers will assume even
more responsibilities.

The excitement for computers seems to have caught on at
the Registrar’s Ofﬁce. A new, friendlier, more functional
online course listing accompanied last week’s spring term
registration. I received my course listing for this semester
via e-mail. The Registrar’s Office seems to be moving to-
wards an increased use of computers, possibly culminating
in a system which would allow on-line course registration.

Computers are useful. It is possible, however, to push
them too far, to try to use them to perform a variety of tasks
that is too wide, so that they become a hindrance, not a help.

Consider the possibility of publishing books via the web
or compact discs. A book has several advantages over its
electronic counterpart: it’s more portable than a computer,
easier to use, and more efﬁcient than any electronic browser.
A book is a good example of something that can be imple-
mented on a computer, but whose implementation is less
helpful than the tangible object.

The same may be true of the Registrar’s Ofﬁce. Incorpo-
rating computers and online offerings into the office’s ser-
vices may make these services less helpful than they would
be without computers.

Online registration provides another example. It may be
easier to get to the Registrar’s Office than to find an avail-
able computer in a public lab. Filling in a registration form
may be easier than selecting options from web pages. Ask-
ing a secretary to sign a registration sheet may be easier than
manipulating a program to get permission for a course.

The current means of registering for courses also offers
more security than online registration. When you sign up for
courses now, you have a written record of which courses
you will take next semester — a sort of guarantee that you
have what you need.

Online registration, however, provides more room for
error. Trusting your course registration to a series of wires
and switches increases the chances that something will go
wrong, that somewhere in the network your classes will get
lost. The consequences of such a loss could mean the differ-
ence between graduating on time and staying for a fifth year.

Like an electronic book, a Virtual Registrar’s Office could
be less useful than the genuine article.

As the Registrar’s Ofﬁce progresses towards increased
use of computers, I hope that they will be careful to offer
more electronic services only if those services represent an
improvement over how the office currently works. Com-
puters can be useful, but pushing them too far could make
future course registrations a virtual hell.

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬁlii

Courtney Miller

1.

joked Brick Row

   

5'”

Executive Editors

Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Will Hardie
Heather McDonald
w&ltfe Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views" do not
reﬂect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
     

A new event for the Winter Olympics

Announcer 1: Good evening, and welcome back
to Nagano for our continuing coverage ofthe 1998
Nielsen Ratings. Uh, I mean the Winter Olympics.

Announcer 2: Tonight we’ve got an interesting
event. This event is as stepped in Greek history as
the Olympic games themselves, only this event
appeals to a different kind of Greek. Yes, it’s the
always controversial men’s freestyle chug.

 

Announcer 1 : First up is Dan Irongut of the United
States. Now Dan is a seasoned drinker who spent six
years in a fraternity before turning pro. This is Dan’s
first non-special Olympics. Dan will be competing in
the freestyle chug event — that means that the judges
are not only looking at time, but they’ll be focusing
on the artistic aspects of his program as well as sheer
drinking ability. But first, a cheesy video over-senti-
mentally portraying Dan as a true American hero.
<cue corny music>

Narrator.‘ Dan Irongut is a true American hero.
When he 's not training for the Olympics. he ’s here,
at the Community Resource Center in Tempe, Ari-

Letters to the
Ring-tum P121’

Connotation of headline disputed

To the editors:

Having read your front-page report about me in
yesterday’s paper, I now know what it is like to have
journalism done to me.

Your headline, “Hodges quits office,” like your first
paragraph, “he is quitting his campus office,” and
“He will work from home from now on,” are wrong.
I am not moving out of my office. As your article
correctly stated, despite the sensational headline, the
office will remain open.

Like almost all of our faculty, I have long worked
both at home and on campus. What I am now doing,
because the President has banned smoking in my of-
fice, is to shift everything I reasonably can to my of-
fice at home. I shall do more of my research, writing,
and grading in the home office — whatever I can do
more efficiently there.

The general tenor of your story makes me appear
to be deserting students and shirking my professional
duty to be accessible. Neither is true, of course. I can
be reached by phone, by e-mail, and through Mrs.
Murchison, whose hours are 8:00 — 12:00.

As I stated in the Wednesday conference with Dr.
Artwick’s class and a few reporters, one among the
many excellent teaching practices at Washington and
Lee is that faculty are available to students in their
offices. For 38 years I have viewed that practice as a
“tradition,” as President Elrod called it, but as more
than tradition: it is a duty and obligation of all re-
sponsible teachers. I shall continue to meet that obli-
gation, which I have welcomed ‘over many years.

Sincerely,
Louis W. Hodges

Wheeler commends rape article

To the editors:

I’d like to thank Jason Zacher, Hollister Hovey,
Tarah Grant, the Ring-tum Phi, and, most of all, the
women who gave such frank and moving testimony
in the special report of February 2nd, “Campus Rape.”
Sexual assault has cause persistent academic and per-
sonal problems for many women I have taught and
known, here and elsewhere; victims too often suffer
in humiliated silence, cut off from the help they need
and support they deserve. We need to change the cam-
pus culture which tolerates rape, and pieces such as
this one are an encouraging start.

Sincerely,
Lesley Wheeler
Asst. Professor of English

Morning-after pill debated

To the Editors:

In your Jan. 26, 1998 issue of the Ring-tum Phi, I
was appalled to read the article “The Moming-After
Pill.” This article promotes chemical altering as a
healthy, less embarrassing response to pregnancy. The
moming-after pill is a form of abortion. Pregnancy is
the natural biological response to sexual intercourse
and results in a new life.

Asjoumalists, are you willing to provide informa-
tion on alternatives through your publication? There
are many resources for women for support and care
through an unanticipated pregnancy. Being a student
and being pregnant does not mean the end of pursu-
ing an education. To end a life through an abortion
procedure is truly not a choice, but an act of hopeless-
ness or of panic.

Sincerely,
Madge L.K. Head

Moming-after pill is “chemical warfare”

Dear President Elrod,

It is with great sadness that I find it necessary to
write you this letter, but I have no other alternative
given the fact that the University continues to publi-
cize and promote the use of abortafacients by the stu-
dent body. I refer of course to the article on “The
Moming-After Pill” in the Jan. 26, 1998 issue of the
Ring-tum Phi.

The article contains several outright lies, the first
sentence being the most egregious. It says, “The best
way to prevent unwanted pregnancy is the consistent

zona, reading books to underprivileged rodents.

Dan.‘ I do it for the animals, I do it for the future,
but I mostly do it as part of my plea bargain. It counts
as community service.

Announcer 1: Boy, that Dan is sure a true Ameri-
can hero. And now, Dan is stepping up to the keg.
There’s the starter pistol  and he’s ofﬂ He’s tossed
away his cup and is drinking straight from the tap! A
bold choice.

Announcer 2: Very bold. Reminiscent of Johnson
in ’88. And he’s still drinking  drinking  ooh,
he has to stop for a second to breathe. That’s going to
cost him.

Announcer 1: But he’s back! Dan is quite a com-
petitor. You know, he’s trained hard to get here. He’s
done a strict physical regiment of 100 push-ups, 200
sit-ups, and 20 shots of Everclear every day for the
past month.

Announcer 2: That stuff cleans you out faster than
a divorce. Dan has truly ingested an epic amount of
alcohol tonight. He’s going for the silver, he’s going
for the gold! No, wait, he’s going for the porcelain.

Announcer 1: Now the judges will be looking at
his form in this puke. His neck is arched, his shoul-
ders are relaxed, and he seems to getting it all inside
the bowl. First-rate puking. And now  oh my God,
he’s going back to the keg! What a competitor!

Announcer 2: Eye ofthe tiger, heart of a champion,
liver of a Rolling Stone.

Announcer 1: Dan is back up and  oh dear, he
appears to have gone blind! He’s groping around like
Bill Clinton in a “Hooters.” He’s tripped over the keg.
The flip — the roll — the triple lutz — ﬂawlessly ex-
ecuted! The crowd is going wild as Dan falls on his
face. What a showman!

Announcer 2: I haven’t seen anyone this out of it
since we covered snowboarding. And  yes! His heart
has stopped. That signals the end of his routine.

Announcer 1: Scores are rolling in. He got a 4.7
from the Irish judge, a 5.8 from the German judge, a
5.2 from the Anheiser Busch judge, and a 4.6 on the
breathalyzer.

Announcer 2: The scores are high, and so is he. Ex-
cellent round.

Announcer 1: Yes, he will definitely be in contention
for a medal, if not a stomach pump. Well next up is Sergei
Smirnoff of one of those little hard—to-pronounce coun-
tries that used to be part of the Soviet Union.

Announcer 2: Sergei is a very tough competitor. He’s
been drinking vodka professionally for 27 years.

Announcer l: Quite a feat for this plucky plucky 26-
year-old. Sergei trained under Boris Yeltsin himself.
First 1et’s cut away for the true spirit of the Olympic
— commercials. '

15 minutes of §hame

me '?"‘uwm mes uses}

 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

/lvn’/184,5! 9

 
  
  
  
  
 

use of a contraceptive before sex ...” The last time I checked,
abstinence was 100 percent effective at preventing un-
wanted pregnancies while the most effective contraceptive
/ abortafacient was only about 97 percent effective.
Another falsehood that is present throughout the ar-
ticle is the indentification of this treatment as a contra-
ceptive rather than as an abortafacient. I know that Dr.
Horton and others will continue to play word games in
an attempt to cover up the reality of what is going on.
They will say that there is no pregnancy prior to the
implantation of the fertilized ovum in the uterine wall

and that therefore the woman has not conceived. This
sort of activity simply attempts to dodge the real issue.
At what point is human life present? The only honest
answer is at conception. The fertilized ovum is undoubt-
edly alive (i.e. not dead) and it is also undoubtedly hu-
man (it can be distinguished from all other species, it is
not a goat, donkey, whale, etc.). The conceptus is both
alive and human. The moming-after pill is chemical war-
fare against this tiny human life.

Some of the tenns used in the article would be laugh-
ably ridiculous is the matter were not so serious. On the
front page next to a picture of birth control pills, the cap-
tion reads: “The Moming-after pill: When disaster strikes,
your best last hope is close at hand ...” Why is pregnancy
a disaster? Pregnancy is the natural response of the fe-
male body to sexual intercourse. Since when is a healthy
body, acting in the way it’s supposed to, as disaster? Lik-
ening pregnancy to a ﬂood, hurricane or tornado is dis-
honest and demeaning of the real beauty of human sexu-
ality. I hope you and the students at the University do not
consider your existance the resuly of a “disaster.” Call-
ing pregnancy a disaster is simply a transparent attempt
to shift the responsibility away from oneself by pretend-
ing that one has no control by pretending that one has no
control over whether pregnancy occurs.

Equally as ludicrous is Dr. Horton calling this “a won-
derful addition to help women with their health needs.”
Since when is interfering with the normal functioning of
the human body by administering a high dose of hor-
mones a “health need”? Indeed the article admits that this
treatment is not healthy because it is not safe to be used
on a routine basis.

But the crowning irony is that students learn about
this pill as part of the I_._I_F_E program, read about it in the
w&@ section of the newspaper and have it adminis-
tered by the Health Services. This pill does not bring life
and health, but death.

As a priest and citizen of Lexington, I askyou to take
the first step toward the restoration of respect for human
life at the University by banning this so-called treatment.

Sincerely yours,
Rev. N. Alan Lipscomb

 

  
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
   
    
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
     
    
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
   

"7  uote of the Week:

  

Y./'

Dear God, What will We do With-
out Big Brother?

— anonymous freshman on Dean
Manning’s announcement

The Ring-tum Phi incorrectly identified two
people in the picture on page one on Feb. 9. The

 

two people were not Jason Nichols and Kelly Stewart
dressed as Wendy and Peter Pan, but actually
Meredith Mlynar and Charles Faulkner dressed as
cave people. We apologize for any inconvenience
this might have caused.

  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   

  

  

MARCH 2, 1997

advertisernﬁlt

 
   

 

§ u\_\ \.
>\_x

 

. ‘
§~.\9s\\:\

\
1‘

\ \\§\\

G.\\\

\ x \\\\»g\\\\\\\

\\\x
»w\

\\

xx \ 

_ s\\\\\§.+,§.\§.¢¥>.

.$\>A\ _. ,\
§§x§%
\§§\§ .

 

 

PAGE 4  O r ‘ S MARCH 2, 1998
Men’s Lacrosse (2-0) ’
we we 23 Men s lacrosse
Guilford 1
I
5”‘ Va'W°S‘e’a“ 9 d ['0 5 fl rst tWO
W&L 21 ,
W°'"e"'sLa°'°e° opponents
(0-0)
At the south ofthe Border BY BRENDAN HARRJNGTOETAFF WRHER freshman Wes Hays held Guilford
TOumamentinDm.ham/ scoreless in the second half.

Cha 1Hil1 N C For some reason the men’s lacrosse On Saturday the Generals once
pe ’ ' ' team didn’t want to score ﬁrst in ei- again gave up the ﬁrst goal and this
Season Opener Wednesday ther of their ﬁrst two games this sea- time found themselves trailing 6-3 to
at home against Guilford. son. But once they did score, they Virginia Wesleyan early in the second
ran away with both games and quarter. The Generals went on an 11-

Baseball (1 -3) outscored Guilford and Virginia 0 run, however, to Put them Well on

Th Sh d ah 3 Wesleyan by a combined score of 44- their Way to a 21-9 Win over the Mar-
11.: enan 0 10_ lins. Virginia Wesleyan went score-
W&L 7 “We got off to a slow start in both less for over 21 minutes as after lead-

of those games,” said senior tri-cap- ing 6-3 in the second quarter as they

. ’ ' “ did not score again until the end of

Menys-I-enn|s(1_1) tam Chip Thompson. But once we .
got going, we really showed how the third quarter.

Sat; Methodist 2 strong our offense was.” The Dohgherty h°Ys, Ed and
W &L 5 On Wednesday afternoon the Gen- Colin, each added ﬁve goals for the

erals kicked off their season at Guilford 1 ‘Generals While freshman Matt Dugan

on me a - _ with a 23-1 trouncing ofthe Quakers. had two goals and three assists and

W n S1-enms (0 2) The Quakers scored the ﬁrst goal of senior Paul Stanley had three goals.

F1-i_; JMU 8 the game before W&L went on to score For the Marlins, junior Scott Chan-
W&L 1 the next23 goals and shutout Guilford dler led the way with three goals and

for the rest of the game. The W&L two assists and senior Tom Lewis

freshmen combined to score 14 of the added two goals and three assists in

Sat. St€tSOIl 7 Generals’ 23 goals as attackman Matt the losing effort. The win improved
W&L 2 Dugan led the team with six points on the Generals to 2-0 Overall and 2-0 in

three goals and three assists. Class- the ODAC While the loss dropped the

Wornen’s  mates Ben Lucas, Pope Hackney, and Marlins to 0-1 overall and 0-1 in the

Tom Burke each added three goals in ODAC.

(86) the winning effort. The Generals travel to Lynchburg

Placed ﬁrst ofl 5 teams at Sophomore g0alie Dan Grattan 011 Wednesday afterlhoon 35 they takle

. made the ﬁrst start of his career; he on the Hornets in a ey ODAC batt e

Atlantlc States picked up three saves and only gave and then h0St Cortland State on Sun-

championships up one goal. Senior Scott Jackson and day afternoon at Wilson field.
Men’sTrack Interested in sports? P J Z _ / E g V E
. . . . ,9 HOT0 BY ASON ACHI;R X1:(.(/TIVE orrora
Flmshed Second at Want to Wrlte about tile  Sports Scene In  Phl '     senior All-American Mary Jo Mahoney hunts down a
ODAC championships The Rzng—t um Phl 1S lOOl{lflg fOI' SpOI'tS Wr1terS- Colgate attacker in Saturday’s 9-1 jamboree loss. The Generals were in action this past weekend at Duke and ‘
Call  for more infol-[nation L'NC-Chapel Hill in the South of the Border Tournament. '
Women’s Track '
Finished fourth at I . .
 Spring sports look to make their mark nationally »
Women’s Basketball , ’ " ' » - , .
(1243) Men s Lacrosse Women 5 Tennis
Thu: W &L 49 Their is only one thing the 1998 The Vi/omen’Stennis team plans on on the fact that she’s gone.” -7
Washington & Lee men’s lacrosse maklhg1tt0NCAAT0lh'hamehtag31h This Weekend, the team Played
Rand‘ Macon 78 team has on its mind: making a tri to this Yeah The)’ ﬁnished fourth last Year James Madison University and
p . . .
End ofSeason the 1998 NCAA Lacrosse Champion- in the championships and second the

AHEAD

Monday

Baseball —

West Virginia Tech
3:00 p.m., Smith Field

Wednesday

Women’s Lacrosse —
Guilford

4:00 p.m., Liberty Hall Fields

Men’s Lacrosse ——
at Lynchburg, 3:00 p.m.

Men’s Tennis —
Guilford,
3 :00 p.m. Upper Courts

Women’s Tennis —
R-MWC, 3:30 p.m.
Lower Courts

at Hollins, 3:30 p.m.

Thursday

Baseball —
Bridgewater

3:00 p.m., Smith Field

Saturday

Women's Lacrosse -
Denison,

2:00 p.m. Liberty Hall Fields

Sunday

Men’s Lacrosse —
Courtland State

2:00 pm. Wilson Field

March 1 2-14

Women’s Swimming —
at NCAA Div. III
Championships

March 19-21

Men’s Swimming —
at NCAA Div. III
Championships

ships, a goal which barely eluded last
year’s team despite a very successful
1 1-3 record. The Generals were ranked
as high as No.3 in the nation last year
before a pair of losses late in the sea-
son kept them from competing in the
NCAA tournament.

This year the tournament ﬁeld has
been expanded from eight teams to 12,
which means the Generals, who start
this season ranked No. 1 1 in Division
III, will have an excellent shot at quali-
fying for the NCAA tournament.
Coach Jim Stagnita, however,
downplays the expanded field.

“It’s still going to be every bit as
competitive,” commented Stagnitta.
“We’re not going to aspire to be one
of those final four teams that qualify.”

The Generals retum a core of play-
ers from last season and add a talented

. group of young freshman whose im-

pact should be immediately felt.

“The freshman class is phenom- I

enal, the best class I’ve seen in my
four years at W&L,” said senior tri-
captain Chip Thompson. “ Our senior
class is really united. Overall the team

Pyoro BY HOLLISTER H0 VEY / PHOTO EDITOR

 

The men’s lacrosse team was ﬂying high during practice this week.
Ranked eleventh in the preseason, the Generals hope to make a strong

NCAA run this season.

chemistry is just great.”

Along with Thompson, midﬁelders
Robb Greenﬁeld and Paul Stanley will
also serve as captains for the Gener-
als. Also returning for the Generals is
midﬁelder Ed Dougheity, who recieved
honorable mention All-America hon-
ors last season. The Generals will miss
the prescence of Ande Jenkins, who

against the University of Texas.

PHOTO BY JASON ZACHIER / E/\'l:'(7l/’l‘lVI5 EDITOR
Senior Lorraine Taurassi makes a pass under pressure

was a first team All-American last year.

The Generals’ defense will be the
biggest question mark in the upcom-
ing season, since the Generals lost
their three starting close defensemen
to graduation.

“The key for us is to maintain a level
of play throughout the season,” said
Stagnitta.

Women’s Lacrosse

The women’s lacrosse team ﬁnished their pre-season
against mostly Division I foes this past weekend. They
ﬁnished 4-5 for the weekend.

The Generals are looking to capture the elusive ODAC
title this year. They last won the title in 1993, the same year
they earned an NCAA tournament berth. Despite ﬁnish-
ing eighth in the ﬁnal NCAA poll last season, the team was
locked out of an NCAA berth because of ODAC rival
Roanoke College. This year, the NCAA tournament has
been expanded to 12 teams, with both W&L and Roanoke
picked to represent the ODAC. W&L returns ten starters
from last season’s 12-4 team.

Like the men’s lacrosse team, the women started off
with an impressive 10-1 mark before losing three of their
last ﬁve games. Two of the losses were at the hands of
Roanoke, including an 8-7 hearbreaker in the ODAC ﬁnal.

Leading the Generals will be seniors Mary Jo Mahoney
and Whitney Parker, both pre-season All-America selec-
tions. Parker will anchor the defense while Mahoney will
join senior captain Lorraine Taurassi up front. Taurassi is
currently ranked seventh on the all-time W&L scoring list.

“We have a lot ofretuming players, so we know we will
be strong this season,” Taurassi said. “The tournament
went really well. Things were really clicking.”

Coach Jan Hathom is looking for her ninth straight win-

ning season at W&L.

year before that. This year, they are
ranked fourth in the preseason.

“We’re pretty confident,” said
sophomore Erin Eggers. “We did re-
ally well in the fall.”

The team mourned the loss of se-
nior Natalia Garcia, a highly-ranked na-
tional player.

“She was a valuable member of the
team,” Eggers said. “I think it was im-
portant for her to concentrate on her
education major. But we can’t dwell

Men’s

The Washington and Lee Men’s
Tennis team is entering this season
ranked 18th nationally. i

The team now has a one and one
record losing to Divison 1 Radford Uni-
versity. “They are looking good,”
Coach Gary Franke said.

Junior Dave Pretila is playing in the
number one spot, and is currently
ranked 18th in the nation. He is paired
with Freshman Chris Haun to form the
Generals’ top doubles team. The
doubles team of Pretila and Haun are
15th in the national rankings.

Haun is the number two singles
player for the Generals this season. Jun-

Stetson College, both Division I teams.
The Generals lost to JMU 6-1 and lost
to Stetsen 7-2. 7
“I think that we went into 1; know-
ing they were very strong teams,”
Eggers said. “We thought of it as good

practice. As a whole, we played well.” #

Eggers said that the strong fresh-
men players make up for the three top
six players the team lost last year.

Their schedule remains strong, with
games against nationally ranked‘!
Kenyon College and Emory University.

Tennis

ior Scott Babka is in the number three 7

spot with senior Glenn Miller, freshman
Kelly Radford and junior David Lehman
rounding out the top six.

Babka and Radford form the second 34

seeded doubles pair while Miller and
Junior Thomas Washbum form the
number three doubles team.

Coach Franke says the season has

gotten off to a good start, and he will >

watch the team in the next three to four
weeks as they enter conference play.

“The team is not as experienced as
last year, but we arejust as good. The )4
guys have good strokes and are funda-
mentally sound,” Pretila said.

B21S€b£lll )1

Washington and Lee baseball will
be returning eight regular starters in
all eight ﬁelding positions and will lose
only one after this season. The Gen-
erals hope to make up for a disappoint-
ing season last year, and are looking
forward to a rebuilding season for the
team. Coach Jeff Stickley says the pro-
cess is “a two to three year deal. To
keep building is the key.”

The pitching staff includes eight
who will be here for at least two more
year. Junior Bob Weston will be the
starting pitcher. Last year, Weston ties
for second most single season wins in
the history of the team with six. He
leads the team with eleven starts and
is expected to do so again this year.

. This year’s number two pitcher is
sophomore Chris Stakem. The left-
hander adds depth to the Generals
pitching. Stakem has a .357 batting

average and started all 29 games dur-
ing the 1997 season.
Juniors Chad Reynolds and A1

Dominick add experience to the 

young pitching team that includes
sophomore Kevin Senson and fresh-
men Will Ogilvie, David Sigler and Bill
Christ.

Sophomore Christian Batcheller ’‘
will lead the outfield playing right
ﬁeld. Batcheller had a .490 batting
record while breaking W&L records
with nine home runs and 45 RBIs.

Coach Stickley said “our team
should compete in the ODAC. We have
to improve on defense. Experience will
play into improving the defense. Hope-
fully our offense will stay the same.” fl

Last year’s offense hit .332 as a team,
with 28 home runs and 208 runs scored
in 29 games. The team’s performance
is expected to be present again in 1998. ‘

 

market trading hits record high

16. Stocks tumbled without airplane stocks as Curtiss ‘hero and

g yesterday in the largest Wright Aeronautical 1 there,

g volume ever to hit Wall the selling par’ g ‘ other
t. By day's end, sales had issues. ‘  gomery
ed 4,820,840 shares, more than V”  ,.:neral Motors,
'9 of these changing hands in th *‘  ,.,tric, Allied Chemical,

New clances, styles stir American youth

May 15. The New York State York University News. “It is, 
Legislature has passed a law giving indeed, an alarminv ' tion wl‘ Q E
a state commissioner the right to our 20th Cer-‘ ite  _,
censor dances. In Utah, a statute out arr’  ‘ ~.
is pending providing for the impris- e X  ‘ § 7
onment of women wearing skir‘  .iv1exi' ., ~ g ‘
higher than three inches 9‘  -uI'C and ’ Q‘ § i 1 . "  ' ‘ours, with ma"'  -nmerican Can.
3nk1e~ And in Vl"‘ g  Paper W1’it55 1- é »~* ' ' i i  my]: ‘ O 0 . Wall Street ﬁnancial analy:‘s
decolletage. "  -., that over a dance flot‘ . . '   :2 - , ‘. g S ‘efore were at a loss to explain why tli
lawrn.,u , . S g .u shrink. rhythm With mus . . _ V-. - I . . .  . ,   market had cracked, since nothin

°‘ ' , American Wlil'l8SS, “but to  h I H10 ' are ejgh U ‘ ‘rw place to underming cor
“ . T ir heels and like a chicken on a reo 39% O V ' _ . i V ' re yed wom I
lndul hat seems -- me time shaking\° ,,e°«  . ' ._ v 3 I P 1 ,D’- Amﬂe."
to be ’ ion agains iverslikeadistufi‘. 06° ' '" . ' , i J ' ‘ -' ' ’ "*9 ‘go? [113 CM
the st es of the’ not only tI'6l'I16l).00§~  g. i ' -  ii -_:'Ia, Iojd to]
parent s. And . , but it is an 01. Q0 \‘z>  ‘ I i . mlalco C dele.
cordi rvey byt mmon decency t_X\‘3‘o5°:°%Q“'c‘ . V I. . _ . vention
New rary Digest, . t be permitted in a sen.\° 4.: 52,990 56‘? . V ' . ‘- N‘ ' ‘ W Bllsj-
maj , . icials and re— le road-house.’’ ‘0 ‘ . N . , ' ' ’ '
po » -I at the burgeoning e respected Nation of Can YOU believe Iio
y -- - is a sign larmist view. “The rank A  gel for 

r _ - n n

{ni111o
In the
Rein-
ege in

- iagazine Television
Daven Corpora-
'Jersey. has put '
first television “ g
ei to be manufactured in

' h U ' d States. The television is
actlon tqucite inriiipensive, only S75. A more
‘ S or V advanced model will be presented a1
on in Berlin on July 31.

wa

tod

new -

ed by

was awa

year for s

tum theo

the pho

light ca

rons by L.

Bohr ' I '

using q , ‘ (cent:  Wedham.
internal , I’

model
circling

II

atom. El ‘ 9
/

e

iewest dance craze

S
x
I
lower or J ' Q 9 “Up on your heels, down on your

. I’
energy 1

8 ' - toes. . .” So begin instructions for
Bohl-‘S m . T ’’ vtcomplishing the Charleston, a fad
acceptedb A ” <3» ° '

diets the e - _ 61 g t 5 \ gents to S ,y be{ fer  ’ 0 0 "harleston, South Carolina,
emitted by p. . V a < . v e {used K) 5 ‘(mg -‘ o G 0 /J. ’ /0’! «e first noted at an all-
The‘ I)’ _ .1 -, a mute “\0: t 6 er» \ 0%   opened in New
. 0 '
. ‘ ., ter0“°a 663 / sf‘ e /0

¢ becoming an institution. Devel-

turned-in toes,

Jying legs,

antically than

. Chaplin. The

o 5'00, .ross age lines; the

{e S\ g 0

:3‘ <1’, 070 . . .

e I 1 _

' I (7 %o [6 00 Q2? W/3 ﬂ 'r1set are doing

J2/C. J‘; D C)!‘ O
. g _
go 6,50?/,& Qiawaodéeg (6 :13 ,{b $902641 06 //26, ,4” '17‘, \eOp1e who
1?/O/b}(3§;) (00 Q 0 ”o’f.J‘9eeJ’ ”e,Jf‘ .ne e.‘/Q. 70%) stand-
,o,- 05 . £9 a, otly still w./0 J’ ass-

/) C} 63 J‘ 6  0

hands back and . 9/6’ fess

ﬂying took her 1'
the outskirts of
Island. Laura
most Americ
7 >_ {Q 3‘ Cadbury, who died trjjay in Birm-
Single-Seat us -, man V f .  ii i ‘ ' _ ii 7 V’  W    83 years of

fellfmma . by . ,' me 2 _.- , .. . T 1,  . _ _.,    rianufacturer.

mai plane equipped with a 40
horsepower Liberty motor at Cu ‘- '

tiss Field, Long Island, at 5:45 thigvg‘ 

evening. The flight from San Fran
isco was completed in 27 hours and
1 minutes. Miss Gatlin undertook
gde| A; I-mile ﬂight to draw atten— '
ie National Association of
0 °'d°" Gold Mothers, which she

I

hen not perro}mi§«~ '; duties as

-~ ‘ax’ aiT'°‘” Brothers,

‘l
 heIdu‘he...volved in
S C -.,iul'In, and‘ in support of
iuch work, he bought four newspa-
ers in the Birmingham district in
391. Ten years later, he assumed
iancial responsibility for The
ily News. Along with his wife,

Ba/I theme revealed, prepare for a:
Rhapsodyin
blue and white

BY LIZ DETTER
W&l.IFE EDITOR

aiting for the library elevator
on the Thursday before
Washington Holiday, two
Washington and Lee students
turned to each other in confusion.
“What were those strange eyes
copied onto a white page and tacked
to the bulletin board all about? Was
it a cryptic reminder about the Honor
System as the midtenn crunch hit?”
The eyes were everywhere, but
it wasn’t the Executive Committee
that was responsible. The eyes
were a hint from the Fancy Dress
Steering Committee about this
year’s FD theme: “Anything Goes:
Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night.”
“I knew people were going to
think it was an E.C. plot,” said FD
Publicity Chairman Sarah Rector.
Every year, the FD Steering Com-
mittee puts up posters and signs
before February Break to raise ex-
citement about the Ball. Junior
Susannah Carr drew inspiration for
her rendition of these eyes from the
eyes of Dr. T .J. Eckleberg, a famous
literary symbol from F. Scott
Fitzgerald’s classic story of the

- good life in the 1920s. Along with

several other hints, the posters were
intended to give clues to the theme
ofthis year’s FD Ball.

“The eyes are a play on the Great
Gatsby,” said Rector. “In the book,
the eyes look over the town, so we
thought they were appropriate.”

Rector also posted signs that
read “You’re Wright,” evoking the
popularity of airplanes in the 1920s.
Earlier in Winter Term, students may
have noticed signs that read, “The

Great Bambinof? That was the nick-
name of Babe Ruth, legendary base-
ball ﬁgure ofthe ’20s.

Once students returned from
Winter Break, they received FD in-
vitations in the mail that unveiled
the theme ofthe Ball. This year’s
choice of the 1920s marks a depar-
ture from the themes of the past few
years.

“I’m very excited,” said Rector.
“I think it’s going to be elegant and

a lot of fun. The theme is getting .

back to reality — it’s not Alice in
Wonderland. It’s not a circus. It’s
more real.”

The l920s is a theme idea that is
submitted every year, said FD
Chairman Jennifer J ustema. In years
past, 19205’ themes have included
“A Tribute to the Silent Screen” and
“Gatsby’s Gala,” but this year’s
theme aims to incorporate several
aspects of the decade at once.

“It was the feeling of the de-
cade that appealed — the glamor
— obviously FD is a glamorous
affair for us,” said Justema. “The
whole idea of decadence and dan-
ger was a good idea for a black tie
event.”

“Think of the old days when
FD was the social event of the
South, when people use to come
into Lexington by the train-load
for the Ball,” said Christine Bragg,
one of the decoration planners.
“We’re trying to get back to that
instead ofthe $80,000 prom.”

So throw on a beaded dress or
some spats, practice the Charles-
ton, and get jazzed for Friday night
when ﬂappers ﬂy into town for the
social event of the season.

Anything Goes: Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night

MARCH 2, 1998

BRUSH ON,

BRUSH OFF
Senior Mary
Michael Pettyjohn
and Junior Ashley
Smith work on
Fancy Dress
Decorations. FD
workers earn free
tickets and a
memorabilia
package for one
for 25 hours of
work.
Construction
started before
February break
and will most
likely continue
until the eve of the
ball.

HoLI.1.s"I'I;R H0VI;r/
PHOTO E[)l’I‘()R

Decorations hit home run

BY ANDREA EWING

T AssocIATE EDITOR
t is all in the details. This is per-
haps the most true for events like
the annual Fancy Dress ball at

Washington and Lee University.

This year’s decorations may not
be the whimsical tents of a circus or
the large mushroom of Alice’s cat-
erpillar, but they will transform the
Warner Center and Doremus Gym
into a night that might have taken
place 75 years ago.

The decorations for the 91st an-
nual Fancy Dress ball are meant to
carry the W&L community into an-
other age —— a time of “Anything
Goes: F lappers, Flight and Jazz All
Night.” According to Decorations
Chairman Jenny Stone, the outside
entrance was designed to look like
a Broadway Marquis.

The hall between the Warner
Center and Doremus Gymnasium
will be carpeted in red carpet, and
there will be a grand piano in the
entrance hall.

“I think it will look really el-
egant and impressive this year,”
Stone said.

Doremus will be decorated in a
“Great Gatsby” mood. The gym
where liquid Pleasure will play is
meant to capture the garden party
atmosphere of the novel by F.
Scott Fitzgerald.

A large white tent with white
drapes and streams of white lights
will surround a working fountain.
Silhouette shadows will surround
the tent.

The large gym will be a l920s
night scene with different build-
ings guests can look inside.
There will be a bar, a hotel, and
even a gangster scene with a
shot-out car.

“This year is really impressive,
because it involves a lot of actual
building,” FD Steering Committee
‘Chairman Jennifer Justema said.

On the balcony a speakeasy
with a bar will be set up.

This will be lit with reddish

lighting to give the area a surreal
kind of atmosphere

Perhaps the biggest difference
this year from the last two years is
the approach the whole commit-
tee is taking.

“This (theme) allowed us to do
something more glamorous  the
others were fun and colorful,”
Justema said. “This one is sophis-
ticated  it was a nice change.”

Justema feels the decorations
will speak for themselves, “Every-
thing is done on a grand scale this
year. There isn’t one specific
thing that stands out. There is an
overall continuity  It is very
much one big set. I am looking
forward to the whole thing  I
can’t wait to see it ﬁnished with
all the details.”

Students will work on the deco-
rations in the Pavilion and then
move them into the Warner Center
and Doremus before the event. But,
the real magic comes when everyone
is dressed up and the music plays.

0990

The Crystal Tower Building
131 West Campbell Avenue
Roanoke, Virginia 24011
(540) 342 2460

LAWRENCE

ﬂ@z4ma

ﬂlneltahan
Cgkme
24 emu % e%«eer

540-404-5800

ATTENTION COLLEGE
SENIORS: WHAT DO I DO
NEXT? Be a live-in nanny for
UVA professors’ family for one
year, starting August 1. Regular
weekday schedule, generous
salary, paid vacations and
holidays, health insurance, free
room and board, own spacious
living quarters (with bathroom and
separate entrance), all utilities,
summer pool membership,
privacy, respect. Non-smokers,
good drivers, college graduates or
students only. Call 804-924-7815
or e-mail aw2b@virginia.edu.

w ewe ea

shoes, dresses, and

accessories for

FD

phone LLOB-SQ88

'23 N Main Lexington

MARCH 2, 1998

Take plunge,
bring flapper

BY JASON ZACHER
EXECUTIVE EDITOR

or many Washington and Lee

students, the search for a

Fancy Dress date can be as
simple as calling a girlfriend or
boyfriend, or as random as ﬁgur-
ing out who they woke up with
last Sunday morning.

Some students have it easy. If
they are in a relationship, the
search for an FD date starts and
ends with their “signiﬁcant other.”

“He’s a built-in date,” said
sophomore Kelly Sewell of
her boyfriend Louie Stryker.
‘‘It is one of the perks of a
serious relationship.”

Senior Ericka Shapard’s search

' for a date took her to her boy-

friend, senior Nick Hodge.

“It was easy,” Shapard said. “l’ve
been dating the same guy for three
years.”

Another issue many W&L stu-
dents contemplate is whether to stick
with another W&L student for a date
or import from a road school or home.

“The past two years, I’ve im-
ported a date from home,” said

Working

BY WILL HARDIE
:‘—“"“j"’ NEWS EDITOR

lthough the mammoth organiza-

tional operation behind this

year’s Fancy Dress ball has
taken dedication, commitment,
blood, sweat and tears by the
bucket-load, many of those
who have toiled away think
it’s worthwhile.

Around 100 students applied in
September for places on the Steer-
ing Committee, responsible for or-
ganizing all aspects of the ball.
About half were accepted.

“We were looking for people
with some experience, some skills
and some ideas,” said FD Commit-
tee Chairman Jen Justema.

Justema, with the help of the
vice-chairman and auditor, chose
sub-chairs for decorations, con-
struction, publicity, memorabilia,
invitations and the playbill.

This year’s ball will cost between
$60,000 and $70,000, all ofwhich
will be paid for by ticket and
memorabilia sales.

For their pains, committee mem-
bers will receive two ball tickets and
a package of memorabilia. The 40

Anytliinglloes: Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night

Junior Travis Winfrey.
“This year, I’m sticking
with a W&L student.”
Senior Steve
Komonynsky, who
prefers W&L women
for dates, may have to
head to the old W&L
dating grounds — the
local girls’ schools.
‘‘I’m going to call her

today,” he said. “If she’s
taken, I will sieze on a girl
from down the ma .”

While some students, including
Winfrey and Komonynsky, simply
pick up the phone to ﬁnd a date, some
guys, like one potential date
for Shapard three years ago, go to
great lengths.

“Freshman year, I had a boy come
into a midterm I was taking,” Shapard
said. “He told me he needed to talk to
me, mid-test, mind you, pulled me out
into the hall and asked me to FD. It
was very strange! I bombed my mid-
tenn and we did not go together.”

No matter what approach you
take, some seniors give this advice
for those having trouble ﬁnding a
date for this year’s Fancy Dress.

down to

student contract workers hired to
help put the ﬁnishing touches will
each get two tickets and half the
memorabilia package.

As well as that reward, Justema
said a lot of committee members had
fun putting it all together.

‘‘It’s nice because there’s a real
variety of the student body,”
Justema said. “There are people
from every class and it’s a
good chance for different classes
to get together.”

Vice-chairman Mary Michael
Pettyjohn agrees.

‘‘It’s been greatjust because it’s
such a diverse group,” she said.
“We have people from every soror-
ity. And we’ve even had a
couple of boys. We’ve all worked
well together.”

There have been no major hitches.

“lt’s gone pretty smoothly, and
it’s been relatively stress-free,”
Justema said. “Hopeﬁilly we can ﬁn-
ish it all up within the week and put
on a good ball.”

Students can purchase two tick-
ets to the ball for $53, or two tickets
and a memorabilia package for $88.
The sale starts Monday in the Uni-

1. Go out on a limb. Ask that
person you’ve had a crush on.

2. Ask a friend to go before you
ask that random hook-up victim. You
just might have fun.

3. For W&L women, Virginia Mili-
tary Institute boys are always an op-
tion. Pro —— men in uniform, always
a good thing. Con — they have to
behome by 1 am. For W&L men, it’s
about time they start bringing VMI
women to FD. Pro — women in uni-
form. Con — bald women don’t
make for good party pics.

4. Pick up a random townie at
Spanky’s, the Palms or the ever-
popular Taco Bell.

5. RCHS isonlyashort drive away.

the wire

versity Center.

“Everybody seems very dedi-
cated,” Pettyjohn said. ‘‘It’s really
fun. I’d much rather be in the pavil-
ion than in the classroom.”

The fivestages of the FD date experience

I DoN‘T WONT
A F1/G./IN6 D975.’

0
0
O

ANGER

lunar awe: oa~E WONG?
Oo a smgu. 90. some Tuna’.
Fm Got/~16 To 505*?” FOR

0 (HEEL...

DEI'I?ES'SI0/V

PAGE 3

Avoid jail bait,
Swensen says

BY ERIC SWENSON
STAFF WRITER

ut ofall the staff columnists, l
as the lucky one chosen to
write the column on Fancy
Dress. I’m sure I was chosen be-
cause my editor has faith that I
will turn out a column on FD that
will warm your heart and tickle
your funny bone. More likely than
that, she was throwing darts at
pictures of her columnists while
trying to decide who to pick and
happened to hit me right between
the eyes. Anyway 

People often stop me in the street
the week before FD and ask, “Eric,
oh wise one, I don’t yet have a date
for Fancy Dress weekend. What-
ever shall I do?” (OK, so no one talks
like this, and no one stops me in the
street to ask me questions. lt’s a
column. Work with me a little bit.)

My first responseris usually,
“Have you trolled the parking lot
at Rockbridge County High
School yet?”

Most people laugh, like l’mjok-
ing. Then they realize I’m serious
and begin to panic. They ask almost
pleadingly, “ls there nowhere else I
can turn?”

Ofcourse there is. You can turn
to the bottom rung on the date week-
end totem pole — the blind date.
Suddenly, RCHS looks much more
attractive. But wait just a minute.
Blind dates can work out beautifully.
Here’s a true story from which the
dateless and the desperate can draw

some inspiration.

Back when we were both fresh-
men, a good friend of mine (who will
remain nameless in case he doesn’t
want the entire campus to know this
story) was set up on a blind date
with a young woman for a formal at,
shall we say, another nearby insti-
tution of higher learning (a.k.a. a
road school). My friend had a repu-
tation back then for being, well, a
bit of a booze hound, and the guy
who set him up did so expecting my
friend would pass out, leaving his
blind date ripe for the taking. My
friend found out about this little
scheme. Mainly out of spite, he
stayed semi-sober the entire week-
end. He ended up really hitting it off
with his date, who turned out to be
a knockout. They fell in love and

"began dating. The ﬁrst date func-

tion they went to as a couple was
FD. This year, they’ll be going to
their fourth FD together.

So what is the moral of this story?
Blind dates can work out betterthan
your wildest dreams. Ofcourse, the
chances of that happening to you
are about as likely as getting struck
by lightening and winning the lot-
tery in the same week.

After all, blind dates are the ulti-
mate crapshoot, sort of like leaving
your car parked on the streets of Lex-
ington for more than two hours.

Then again, ifyou’re not willing
to take that risk, the lovely men and
women of RCHS are but a short
drive away.

no Bic, VEAL - I'LL 6E7
A DGTE TomOf(tLou7.
O

D
O

/DEN/QL

PLEILSE oar) I'LL NEVEA
D/{INK A»(,Au\( n= Y00 6|‘/E
me A Dara,

O

O
0

/3.‘)/?6 :9/N//V 6

flag... I w0~DE& M1‘ AN)’-

one NEEDS A $088‘
:>mvsrL ‘runs WEEKEND.

r9CcE/’7'AA/L E.

1F You A/£5 éowé
Takouul mesa “"653
B-?CAu.$€ 7_o_o I>°~’7 “AVE
A 9,;-re) Cut. Tlhs No.1
1 .. goo- Sur,i< :7’ UP!

8To¢° Bswe A v3'ABv)
mice A DEEP 139-&ﬁTu_.,
A/vo ILEAAAEE runs is Jvsf
Pﬂom wmr 4 B16652 B00653‘
Mo S4—ibHTl«Y ante; msre.

AVIITEBLE

AnrninaGves=F1awers, Flehtwd Miriam

‘Kiss Off’ Thursday night

BY HEATPIER MCDONALD

NEWS EDITOR
hursday night, the Pavilion will
burn like a blister in the sun.
This year, the SAB contrasts

new and established musicians
with blues guitarist Corey Harris
for the opening act and the ever-
popular Violent Femmes for the
1998 Fancy Dress concert.

Many have asked, “Who is
Corey Harris?” Corey Harris is a
young, up-and-coming blues gui-
tarist that some have compared to
a young B. B. King.

Harris released his debut Com-
pact disc, Between Midnight and
Day, in 1995 on the Alligator
Records label after being discov-
ered in New Orleans. His follow-

up, “Fish Ain’t Bitin’”, was criti-
cally acclaimed. Rolling Stone
magazine said that with his “coun-
try-blues acoustic guitar style and
soulful voice, Harris recalls old
blues masters.” However, Harris
attributes some of his inﬂuences
to African drumming styles he
heard while studying linguistics
in West Africa.

The Violent Femmes, originally
from Milwaukee, had their first re-
lease on the Slash label, way back
in 1982.

Their most popular song, “Blis-
ter in the Sun,” was first released
on this album, along with “Kiss
Off,” “Add It Up,” and “Gone
Daddy Gone.” Since then, the
Femmes have released 1 1 CD5.

They finished recording a
twelfth CD in January. The release
date is unknown. The Femmes
were popularized recently for their
re-release of “Blister in the Sun”
for the “Grosse Pointe Blanke
soundtrack.”

Gordan Gano, the lead singer
and composer, writes lyrics that
are personal and powerful.

If you can’t get enough of the
Femmes and don’t have a date for
FD, drive on up to Washington,
D.C. on Friday night. The Femmes
will be playing at the 9:30 Club.

The concert begins at 9 p.m.
The show may sell out, so pur-
chase tickets in advance. Tickets
are $10 for students ($l2 at the
door) and $16 for non-students.

MARCH 2, 1998

In Concert

In 1982, a band came out of
Milwaukee not with a whimper,
but with a bang. The Violent
Femmes had appeared, and with
the group came a multi-platinum
album full of songs of frustra-
tion and rage. Still together to-

C ourtesy of Erica Prosser/ FD Playbill

Violent Femmes

day, they have changed only a
little from their early sound
and style.

The group is made up of sur-
prisingly normal people. Gordon
Gano, the lead singer and com-
poser, is a practicing Christian
and responsible for the religious-
sounding songs the band per-
forms. Bassist Brian Richie is
an atheist who puts up
with the sometimes-Christian
slant of things.

Drummer Guy Hoffman re-
placed Victor De Lorenzo, the
former drummer for the group, in
1993. Now, the three-man band
is riding the wave of their “come-
back,” after a lull of success in
the 19805.

Small Gym

Liquid Pleasure

Liquid Pleasure will be the '
featured band in the small gym
at Fancy Dress 1998.

In an industry where the av-
erage life of a band is about
ﬁve years, Liquid Pleasure has
set a new standard. As they
enter their 20th year, they have
ﬁrmly established themselves
as the area’s premiere show
and dance band.

Three out of the six present
musicians who make up Liq-
uid Pleasure are original mem-
bers. This type of consistency
combined with exceptional tal-
ent sets Liquid Pleasure apart
from the rest.

Over the years, the band
has appeared with such no-
table artists as Paula Abdul,
The Temptations, Whitney

B0 -Thorpe

The Bo Thorpe Orches-
tra will be the featured band
in the big gym for Fancy
Dress 1998.

Every now and then
something truly unique
comes along in the world of
music. One ofthese is The
Bo Thorpe Orchestra. This
is a band that has this gen-
eration ofAmericans danc-
ing again.

Courtesy of Erica

Prosser/FD Playbill

tlrehestra

GIVE US TIME TO REPAY
YOUR LOAN.

After just three years in
the Army, your college loan
could be a thing of the past.

Under the Army’s Loan
Repayment program, each
year you serve on active duty
reduces your indebtedness by
one-third or $1,500, whichever
amount is greater, up to a
$65,000 limit.

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans
and certain other federally insured loans which are not
in default.

And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army
will give you. Get the whole story from your Army
Recruiter.

(703) 886-265 1
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Houston, The Four Tops and
  Aretha Franklin.

Courtesy of Erica Pr0sser/ F D Playbill

Fancy dress is a
memorable occasion so
dine at a memorable
restaurant make
reservations now to
avoid the last minute

/AN

III C Ill 5 III
III III III
III III III
UII 00' Ill
- -l i l . .
. .i. . l .. .
-

The______.

WILLSON- 
WALKER 
HOUSE  __

Restaurant’

Special fancy dress dinner
menu serving creative
American cuisine

Walking Distance To
Visitor Center & Both Colleges
30 N. Main Street

MARCH 2, 1998

'4/‘tar mrtra/htr A/‘the lII’£IIl7i%} WM 119...

Speakin’ easy

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
—--——--mMANAGING EDITOR

me would think that Washing-
ton and Lee students had enough

of Prohibition in the 1920s.
Apparently not.

Sigma Nu is holding a “speak

easy,” a party that will mirror a 19205
«club during Prohibition. The location
is secret, and the guest list is exclu-
sive. If you don’t know the secret
password, you’ll be spending
Wednesday night watching Beverly
“Hills902l0.

All music at the party will consist
of jazz and swing tunes from the pe-
riod, as well as retro-swing like “Big

‘Bad Voodoo Daddy.”

“The purpose of the party is to
circumvent Prohibition and drink
bootlegged alcohol smuggled directly
from Al Capone,” said the suave host.

4 Other activities during Fancy
Dress will follow traditions that
have been around longer than
underage drinking.

Sigma Nu other tradition is for the

‘(brothers and their dates have dinner
together at the fraternity house., in-

stead of breaking apart into smaller
groups and traveling to Roanoke or
other nearby towns.

“All of the brothers get a chance
to get together and eat together, toast
together and walk over to the ball to-
gether,” Senior Doug Hesney said.
“It really brings us together as
a brotherhood.”

Toasts are essential at

Anything Goes: Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night

dinner, ladies included.
“We always run out,”
Aaron Michaelove said.

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY

Senior

Other fraternities like Sigma Chi

and Sigma Alpha Epsilon hold cham-
pagne brunches after the ball.
Pi Kappa Alpha has perhaps the

most interesting tradition of all.
“We have one tradition,” Brian

Rogers said. “Every year all of the broth-

ers and their dates rub Scott

IN

Hooks’

head for good luck and good dancing -

mostly for good dancing, thou

Sh?’

Sigma Nu, and get quite in-
teresting after the house
goes through the wine.

“We have two that we
do every year,” an anony-
mous fraternity member
said. ‘“To honor  get on
her and stay on her  to
honor!’ and ‘Here’s to ly-
ing, cheating, stealing and
drinking. If you’re gonna
lie, lie for a friend. If you’re
gonna cheat, cheat death.
If you’re gonna steal, steal
a woman’s heart. If
you’re gonna drink,
drinkwith me!”’

One bottle of wine is or-
dered for each person at

APT for RENT,

EXCELLENT LOCATION,

3 BEDROOM,

MICROWAVE FOR
MORE INFORMATION,

CALL 4()3*76QO

LAW

LONDON
CLINICAL

INTERNSHIPS

May 25-July 17, 1998

Division of International Programs Abroad

Summer Programs Ofﬁce
119 Euclid Avenue
Syracuse, NY 13244-4170
1-800-251-9674

E-mail: DIPASUM@suadmin.syr.edu

Summer Tour Guides
The W8L Admission Oﬁice is now accepting

applications tor summer tour guide positions. All
interesded students should submit a cover letter
and resume no later than Monday, March 30,
_ 1998 to
Julia M. Kozalz
Associate Dean ot Admissions
Ottice ot Admissions

ERIDAN

, \’ I
 1:-.2

Seatood Deliv

Dailyl

Fresh Cut Steales

and Pasta!

FANCY DRESS 1998

WE LOOK FORWARD TO
BEING PART OF THIS
MEMORABLE EVENING!
ENJOYAN EVENING
OF FINE DINING
AT LEXINGTON ‘S
NEWEST EATERY!

MAKE YOUR
RESERVATIONS TODAY
4644887

tor oletails at

X8876 or ><880l

CW/lode/§&  .'

male/female for drawing
and painting classes
please Contact

Drotessor Quin

Pay  
is $ 10/hr.

SEMESTER ABROAD IN cusm RICA

The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Duke University are
accepting applications for the Fall 1998 semester for a ﬁeld-oriented,

science based semester abroad program in costa Rica. Students earn,

16 credit hours in tropical ecology , environmental science and policy, ﬁeld
research methods, and Spanish language and culture.

Credits may be transferred from Duke University

-hands-on experiential learning - independent ﬁeld projects
- cultural immersion - extended stays at remote field sites
- home stays - extensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application materials, contact
Organization for Tropical Studies. Duke University
Te|.: (919)684-5774; Email: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>

http://www.ots.duke.edu

Application deadline for 1998 Fall semester is

March 20, 1998.

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY

O
>
K
O
i-
‘L’
:
n
H.

O
>
Z
O
I-
‘L’
::
in
IL

O
>
1".‘
O
I-
2
:|:
a
ll.
_ O
>
¢
0
I-
5'.’
:c
c:
II.

O
>
G
O
I-
2
:c
a
II.

1907 Bal Masque

Librarian Annie Jo White used $42 in leftover theater
funds to create the first Fancy Dress Bail. The Feb-
ruary 9, 1907 issue of the Ring-tum Phi announced
the upcoming “Bal Masque” on Tuesday, February
12. it promised an “affair...exceptionally pretty and
brilliant...and quite an innovation to Lexington soci-
ety.” The crowd danced to the sounds of the VMI
orchestra, who ended their set with “Home Sweet
Home” at 2 a.m. There was class the next day.

1908 Fancy Dress

1909 Fancy Dress

From 1909 to 1914, the Fancy Dress Balls were held
on a skating rink on Main Street.

1910 Bal Masque

1911 Bal Masque

1912 Colonial America

1913 Bal Masque

1914 Bal Masque

1915 Colonial America

1916 Court of Louis XIV

1917 Bal Masque

1918 Europe and Columbia, Gem of the
Ocean

AMidsummer Night’s Dream

Bookland

1921 The Chinese Court of Chu Chin Chow
1922 The Scottish Highlands

Evergreen trees decorated 1922’s Scottish Highlands.
The Ring-tum Phi reported, “The most notable part
of the whole ‘carnival’ was the unusually beautiful
girls who thronged to Lexington  Such a type of
femininity is peculiar only to certain particularly fa-
vored comers of the inter-collegiate world.”

1923 Le Bal des Operas

1924 My Lady of the Fan

The 1924 ball was the first one under the control of a
president elected by the student body.

1925 Romance of the Dance

Romance of the Dance celebrated the evolution of
dance from ancient themes to the modern age. Two
orchestras performed on the Fancy Dress floor for
the first time.

1926 Bal Beaux Arts

Following the 1926 ball, the Ring-tum Phi urged a
change in Fancy Dress dance policy: “Due to the
crowded conditions which will exist on the floor, it
has been suggested that the ‘Charleston,’ which has
been banned at several southern schools, be limited
as much as possible.”

1927 Carnival of Venice

Women from Sweet Briar College (usually the most
popular among W&L men) couldn’t attend the dance
because ofa diphtheria quarantine; Hollins women
couldn't come because ofexams.

1928 Bookland

Decorations included two huge Dutch wind mills in-
side Doremus Gymnasium.

1929 1001 Nights

1930 Spanish Fiesta

1931 Robin Hood

1932 Colonial Ball

1933 Ball of the Grandees

1934 Coronation of Emperor Alexander III
1935 Congress of Vienna

The Associated Press distributed pictures of the ball
viaits new wire-photo service. Ballgoers received a
commemorative picture frame emblazoned with the
university.

1936 Queen Elizabeth and the Earl of Essex
1937 Italian Renaissance

The Fancy Dress Ball committee set aside $350 to
decorate a “smoking room” for the 1937 ball.

1919
1920

i"i"'!I'2‘¥"es=.F'**Pt'=*s’ 

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD

1938 Charleston, SC on the eve of secession
Annie Jo White told the Ring-tum Phi she liked this
year's theme but she felt Fancy Dress was “getting
to be too much of a public affair now  it used to be
almost a private dance, but now anyone can get in.”
1939 Knights of the Golden Horseshoe
Juniors and seniors were admitted to the main dance
ﬂoor, and sophomores and freshmen were admitted
to the balcony. Spectators were also admitted to the
balcony for $1 per person. For the bail there were
1,100 advance room reservations in Lexington.
Women from 30 states, Cuba, and Canada attended
the ball. So did Virginia Governor James H. Price.
1940 Kentucky Derby

Students wore costumes reminiscent of the “Roaring
‘80s” at the 1940 Fancy Dress. Kay Kyser’s orches-
tra premiered its new song, “At the Fancy Dress Ball.”
it had been arranged that morning in less than thirty
minutes. CBS radio broadcast the evening’s perfor-
mance.

1941 King Rex and his court at Mardi Gras
1942 A Night at the Monte Carlo Casino in

1861

The December before the ball the faculty committee
on student social functions recommended modifica-
tions to Fancy Dress plans “Purpose of the action
was summarized as twofold: to demonstrate, by steer-
ing away from a ‘too ostentatious’ affair, that the
student body is aware of ‘responsibilities  in a pe-
riod of grave national emergency”’ and to avoid rack-
ing up a budget deficit. The Fancy Dress chairman
did travel to New York and Philadelphia to iron out
details with decorations and costumes.

1943 American Spirit

American Spirit was the last Fancy Dress until 1947
because of World War II. The ball portrayed groups
of American patriots: the 1776 revolutionaries, the
group of U.S. military and naval heroes in the War of
1812, the heroes of the Mexican War, the Civil War

MARCH 2, 1998

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD

fighters, the Spanish-American War soldiers and the
World War I ﬁghters.

1947 Carnival at Rio

Fifteen inches of snow did not stop 2,000 people
from attending the ball.

1948 Hampton Court under Charles II
Decorations for the bail included a “fratemity hall.”
Each fraternity was given an 18-foot longsection of
the wall to decorate in fraternity colors and to put up
large cutouts of their crests or pins.

1949 George Washington's Birthday Ball
1950 King Arthur's Court

Students made the decorations for the first time at
the 1950 ball, instead of hiring professional interior
decorators.

1951 Carmen

A bullﬁghting arena was constructed on the dance
ﬂoor.
1952
1953

The Works oi Shakespeare

The Court of King Louis XVI

1954 King Rex and his court at Mardi Gras
1955 An Odyssey Through Empires

Costumes included the Greco-Roman, Ancient Chi-
nese, Central Asian, Arabian, Egyptian, Moorish and
Viking peoples. WSLS—TV in Roanoke broadcast foot-
age of the ball the next day.

1956 The Wizard of O1

1957 Mozart's Don Giovanni

1958 Gilbert and Sullivan at Buckingham
Palace

1959 Golden Jubilee (50th anniversary)
1960 The Evolution of Man

The exams schedule of Hollins College prevented
Hollins women from attending the ball. The Ring-
tum Phi’s Hollins correspondant wrote: “Have a drink
for us.”
1961 Shakespeare in the court of King
James

1962 High Society

“My Lady of the Fan”

“A Carnival in Venice”

BACK IN

THE DAY
During the
1920s, Fancy
Dress was a
costume ball.
That meant
students spent a
lot oftime and
money dressing
up to ﬁt the
theme. These
pictures are
taken from the
1924 and 1924
Calyx. The
1924 FD was
the first one
under the
control of a
president
elected by the
student body.

MARCH 2, 1998

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HIS-

1963 American Civil War Centennial

The cocktail party held before the ball in honor of
Fancy Dress’ chairman had a quite a different theme:
Playboy. The party room was decorated with Play-
boy paraphamelia: rabbits, balloons, and free sou-
venirs. Each escort was asked to submit a photo of
his date; contest chairman Ralph Wiegardt said:
“Don’t hide your bunny under a bushel, enter her in
the Playmate contest!” Playboy publisher Hugh
Hefner called during the party to name a winner.
1964 Mardi Gras

1965 Mississippi Riverboat

1966 Derby Day Ball

In the election for Fancy Dress chairman, senior Joe
Miller was opposed only by Fritz, a white German
shepherd and mascot of the Phi Ep house. Fritz got
one-fourth of the votes in the race.

1961 Opening Night

1968 High Society

An article in the Washington Post said the balls in
the late 1960s used to center on the “ﬁgure,” a dance
in which couples formed the shape of the Washing-
ton and Lee crest. This included a four-sectioned
blue, red, and yellow shield with a noble bird and a
bottom ribbon inscribed with the school motto.
1969 Inaugural Ball

1910-13 Only Concerts were held

1914 Mardi Gras

Tickets were $4 for fraternity members and $7 for
non-fraternity students. During the ball, students
dumped a pitcher of beer on University President
Robert Huntley.

1975 In the Mood 1941

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HIS-

Anything Goes: Flappers, Flight and Jazz All Night

1916 Hurray for Hollywood!

1911 Passport to Paris

1918 Glories of Egypt

The ball was held in Evans Dining Hall and the Uni-
versity Center and featured a professional belly
dancer named Jameela. Ajazz pianist played in the
Executive Committee room. John-Ivan Palmer, an ex-
pert in the area of extra—sensory perception, set up
shop on the second level of the University Center.
1919 A Taste of the Big Apple

The day after the ball the freshman class sponsored
its annual grain party.

1980 Monopoly: A Stroll around the Board
An editorial in The Ring—tum Phi on the I980 Fancy
Dress Ball said tickets were selling on the black mar-
ket for $40 a couple. Tickets to the ball were limited
because, according to city ﬁre code, only 2,500 people
could fit in the building. At the ball, a woman from
Hollins had her $10,000 mink coat stolen from the
coat room, but the Lexington police soon recovered
it.

1981 On Broadway

1982 A Diamond Jubilee (15th anniversary)
The two spotlights outside prompted claims of UFO
sightings from Lexington residents.

1983 An evening along the Mississippi River
1984 Lost Cities ol Gold

1985 The Mini: Dynasty

Mink Dynasty featured live exotic birds where tro-
phy cases in the gym used to be.

1986 Carnival - A Night in Rio

A llama rented from the Natural Bridge Zoo escaped
from the dance. The Phi reported that quite a bit of

I PAGE 7

FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HISTORY o FD HIS-

Killian's red ale was consumed at the ball, and a law
student slapped his date, prompting a Student Con-
duct Committee investigation.

1981 The Darlc Continent

The Minority Students Association boycotted the
ball.

1988 Reconciliation Ball of 1865

1989 The Orient Express

An Evening Excursion on the Orient Express was the
most expensive Fancy Dress ever; it cost over
$100,000.

1990 Gatsby‘: Great Gala

1991 A Royal Festival at King Arthur‘: Court
At 9 P.M. at the ball, the committee realized it had
purchased 700 pounds of ice, 450 liters ofCoke, but
had forgotten to get cups. A committee member was
dispatched to East Lex to purchase 4,000 cups. A
record 3,500 people attended the ball.

1992 Voyage to the Age of Exploration

1993 Celebrating the Silver Screen

1994 A Magical Carpet Ride

Magical Carpet Ride featured a live, photogenic camel
from the Natural Bridge Zoo. The camel was led away
soon after he became angry and started spitting on
people. Inside the ball was a l4-foot—tall throne at the
top of a staircase where ballgoers could have their
picture taken. A Ring-tum Phi camera also captured
the image of a male ballgoer seductively dancing with
a team of middle-aged belly dancers who performed
during one of B0 Thorpe’s band breaks.

1995 Une Soiree Parisienne

1996 A Mad Tea Party

1991 Under the Big Top

FANCY DIIDSS IS THIS FRIDAY!

ANYTHI

l~’Iz:;:;2z2z*.s', i"l{g'i;£; t
A .  ““

K.

”’tf

Dist zlrzsszzzzi
lhsliington & Lea I/nivcrsity Marc]: 6, 1998

NI} GOES=

 .i:2zz All iiigkt‘

l...

TICKETS AND MEMDHADILIA
  AIIE DN SALE THIS WEEK IN
THE DNIVDHSITYCENTEH,
HDDM 109.
NIDNDAY TD WIIDESDAY:
IDAM TD APNI AND 6 TD 9PM

THURSDAY: IDAM TD 4PM

FRIDAY: IDAM TD 2PM

and Robin’s

agent

a mestead
_ rve Garden

exington and the surround-
' area offer a host of din-
. n g
options on the average night,
but the quest for a pre-Fancy
Dressrestaurant requires more
thought and planning. For FD most
restaurants in this area provide a
special, albeit limited, menu. This
normally consists of at least three
varied entrees, and can also include
appetizers, etc.

Most restaurants accept reser-
vations several days, even weeks,
in advance, so planning in advance
is a must. Lexington is a strange
place. There are many ﬁne restau-
rants to serve a very small popula-

‘é

A Z
The Last lizlngll

‘Ar ‘A’ it ‘A’ of 4

BY ALEX CHRISTENSEN
—————— H11 MOVIE Cnmc

.W. Murnau’s “The Last

Laugh” (1924) is an odd

film, one that deﬁes ﬁlm
conventions ofplot, characteriza-
tion, valuejudgement which can
still be seen throughout the cin-
ema. “Der letzte Mann,” the Ger-
man title, can also be translated
as “The Last Man,” with the con-
notation of “The least of men.”
To examine a man described with
such an appellation is a fascinat-
ing experiment. And even more
than most films with title charac-
ters, “Der letzte Mann” concen-
trates completely on its old door-
man. There are perhaps four or
ﬁve scenes that do not include
his physical presence, and these
are all set—ups for his reactions to
them. The audience is truly in-
vited to get inside the psyche of
this hotel porter, almost to the ex-
clusion of other characters or the

tion, but some of these places would
not make it in the big city.

If you come from a place that is
known for ﬁne dining (Houston,
Atlanta, D.C.), then comparing these
restaurants to the places you have
back home is an exercise in futility.
For many different reasons, includ-
ing the availability of certain ingre-
dients and a competent staff, it is
always best to judge the restaurants
in an area against each other.

Maple Hall - Situated out past Lee-
Hi on route 1 1, Maple Hall has been
our pick for the last three years. At
Maple Hall you will receive ﬁne food
and excellent service. You do pay well
for what you receive, but compared
to the other Lexington options, we
consider Maple Hall the best choice.

Sheridan lilVel'y lﬂll - Located in town
for convenience, the Inn normally
provides good food and service. The
prices are more reasonable than those
at most places, but the boisterous at-
mosphere can be a big detraction. For
the budget conscious dinner,
Sheridan Livery Inn is a great choice.

Willson-Walker Ilonse — Also located
in town. Most people seem to like
Willson—Walkeras a back up in case they
can’t get reservations somewhere else.
The service and the atmosphere are both
always great, but from our experience
the food is not nearly worth what you
pay for it. We guess the owners have to
make a living somehow. If dining in town
is important, you have money to burn,
and you are not ravenously hungry as

milieu ofhis city or home life.

The doorman, played master-
fully by Emil Jennings, is a pa-
thetic yet noble character who is,
ironically, fired for doing hisjob
too well. He heroically moves a
heavy trunk without any assis-
tance, assistance he normally has,
then stops for a short break. Only
the break is noticed by the hotel
manager, who demotes the door-
man to restroom attendant, strip-
ping him of his identity and sta-
tion in life.

Previously, we have seen the
effect his uniform has had on the
doorman. Respected, at least to
his face, by his friends, family, and
neighbors, he moves with pride
and a puffed-out chest down the
streets where he lives. We see him
salute passersby, who seem as
delighted by hisjoviality as he is.
He is dignified and correct, yet
tender, stopping to prevent the

my:

Doug always‘ is, Willson-Walker is a
good choice.

The Inn at Union Run - Some people
really like Maple Hall; some people
prefer Union-Run. The debate has
been raging for years at W&L, but
we feel both places have their merits.
If you don’t mind a short drive for
your meal, Union Run offers a delight-
ful atmosphere and
quality food.

The Staircase -

Probably not most
people’ s ﬁrst choice,
but this little bar and
grill has been know
to bring out the
tablecloths and ﬁx up
a special menu for
Fancy Dress. An-
other eatery located
close to the action,
the prices should be
reasonable and the
service good.

The Homestead - President Clinton
has been there several times; the
food must be pretty good, or then
again maybe they are serving him
fried chicken. In any case we have
heard of several couples making the
really long drive to dine at the Home-
stead, and all have returned with
good reports. If you are looking for
something really different, and you
don’t mind the drive, then this may
be just what you are looking fo‘r.-

The lllive Garden - You’ll have to
drive to Roanoke for this one, but it

I’ I 1’ Capture the spirit of the twenties with a

‘Last’ flick for FD

other little children from teasing
another child, brushing the child
off and giving him some candy
before passing on. Jannings
plays all of the doorman with
gusto and big, robust
movements which never
go overboard.

So the ﬁring, with its reposses-
sion ofthe doorman’s uniform, hits
hard Besides the effect of ﬁring
on the man himself, the neighbors
begin to gossip and make fun of
the doorman and his family, fi-
nally driving the doorman’s new
son—in-law to kick him out ofthe
house. Although this is the most
unbelievable part ofthe film, it
does have some validity and
moves the story to its intended,
and necessary, destination.

The camera effects, ones which
might be criticized in a ﬁlm reach-
ing for realism, actually add to the
realism here. Effects such as see-



MARCH 2, 1998

may be just what you want. The
menu never changes, not even for
Fancy Dress, and the quality of the
food is consistently good. The prices
are reasonable, and on a good night
the service is great. However you
may not be able to get reservations.
Recently the Olive Garden stopped
taking reservations for Friday night,

so this could be a problem.

Tips for a pleasant dinner and
FD: Many restaurants allow you to
give a credit card number in advance,
so after your meal, there’s minimal
hassle with the bill.

Don’t try to put the cork back

in the wine bottle. You might hit ’

your date in the head with a cork!
(Personal experience)

If your chosen restau-
rant plays music (or muzac)
in the background, call
ahead and make a request
for some lighter classical
music, rather than tinny
renditions of Hanson and
the Spice Girls.

Wherever you eat, we
hope everyone has a safe and
enjoyable FD, and one more
word of caution: it‘s probably
a bad idea to get sick on the
Dean or University presi-

dent of your choice.

BAND Stnlllnnn

B G) H

NO BAND

X ‘I’

Uncle Mingo OPEN

E N

Baker CLOSED

(D A O

Deep Banana Blackout CLOSED
(D F A

Belizbaha DAY OPEN

CD K 2

Voltage Brothers DAY OPEN
G) K ‘I’

NO BAND

K 2

Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts
OPEN

U KA

Junkyand Bhuda OPEN

H K (1)

Big Mama Boogie Band DAY
OPEN

Breakfast Club CLOSED NIGHT
Z X

Convertibles DAY OPEN,
HOUSE CLOSED

Belizbaha NIGHT OPEN

2 A E

Circle Jerk and the Wonder
Dogs DAY CLOSED

Voltage Brothers NIGHT OPEN
2 CD E

Wild Grass DAY CLOSED
Convertibles NIGHT OPEN

ing things from the doorman’s

jpoint of view, even when he is

drunk or confused, actually recre-
ate natural processes in ways that
take the viewer inside the
doorman’s mind.

And the elaborate production
design, with beautiful sets and
well executed costumes, allows
Murnau to show us a place that
does not really exist: the city from
the perspective of the doorman,
darker and more forbidding than a
real city might have looked had it
been used for shooting some of
the exterior scenes.

“Here the story should really
end for, in real life, the forlorn old
man would have little to look for-
ward to but death. The author took
pity on him and has provided a
quite improbably epilogue.”

This sarcastic statement, near
the end ofthe ﬁlm, points the ﬁlm
in a new direction, changing it from

a moody, almost documentary
story about a ﬁred doorman to a
short “rags—to-riches” comedy vi-
gnette.

We see the man, abandoning
the family who has abandoned
him, lording his newfound wealth
over the manager who ﬁred him,
now remembering the night watch-
man who took pity on him and the
poor who are treated by others
with disdain.

The shock of the ending,
strangely, seems to counteract
some of the heavy-handedness
ofthe first part ofthe film which
was not as believable. Now the
audience is simply happy for the
doorman instead of considering
his own missteps that may have
added to his misfortune or the
overreaction of the other char-
acters. The ending provokes
thought long after the film
has ended.

