-q,‘

ls

‘_

A

J.

1.

xx.

4!

LIJ
E
.4
05
3

 

CD Move over Rover!
New pets are crawling out of
the woodwork
CD Is the bookstore overpriced?

PAGE 3

Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 21

(D The benefits of Online
Registration

(D A challenge to student
autonomy

 

PAGE 2

  ifttng -tum {ﬂirt 

(D
I-
M
O
D.
(0

Wet, but victorious at Wilson Field

Following a violent cloudburst, alumni and students stand soaked at the Lee-Jackson Classic. When the sun finally came out again, the men ’s
lacrosse team had shutdown the VMI Keydets 1 7-10. The victory marks the 10th time in a row that the Generals have won the annual game
between the neighboring institutions. HOLLISTER HOVEY/EXECUTIVE EDrroR

Class of

‘73

gives largest gift
in school history

BY HOLLISIER HOVEY
-—:——-—j-—F.xBw'nvE FDrroR

The class of 1973 presented the
university with the largest 25th re-
union gift in the history ofthe insti-
tution at the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association Saturday. The
gift ofover a million dollars will cre-
ate an honor scholarship in the name
of the class and support the annual
fund over a ﬁve-year period.

The fundraising process began
last June when John W. Folsom took

over the reigns of the Class of ’73-

Alumni Committee. By a follow-up
meeting in October, Folsom and
members ofthe class set the goal of
$1 million.

The class came to Alumni Week-
end on Thursday nearly $200 thou-

Pavilion

Three years ago, Alex Christensen
saw freshman (now junior) Torn
Wadlow smoking cigarettes and “act-
ing like a jer ” in the Lenfest’s produc-
tion of Butterﬂ ies are Free, and immedi-

    
  
  

sand short of their goal, but they
were able to exceed their planned
numbers by Saturday morning when
they presented the gift to President
John Elrod. Individual gifts ranged
from $25 to $125,000.

“It raises the bar for all 25th re-
union gifts,” Elrod said. “lt’s a mag-

niﬁcent gift from a wonderful class.-

We’re greatly indebted to the Class
of ’73...It’s a cause for celebration
all over the university.”

The Class of ’73 not only showed
financial support during Alumni
Weekend, but they also won the
Reunion Bowl for most attendance
with 96 registered alumni at the re-
union. The Class of ’58 also made a
large donation in the half-million
dollar range.

ately thought of Steve Buscemi in Res-
ervoir Dogs. At that special moment,
the aspiring producer/director started
thinking about doing a stage version of
the Quentin Tarantino ﬁlm at Washing-
ton and Lee.

This Friday and Saturday night at
7 p.m., Washington and Lee
University’s Student Pavilion will
serve as a hideout for the seven

professionals who
IR were supposed to

commit the perfect

 crime: freshman
i Kevin Dean as Mr.
Orange, senior Brugh

Foster as Mr. White, Wadlow as Mr.
Pink, junior John Floumoy as Mr.
Blonde, sophomore Greg Pleasants
as Nice Guy Eddie, freshman Phelps

goes to the dogs

Harmon as Joe, senior Dave Howard as
Holdaway, Christensen as Mr. Brown,
and freshman Ryan Truax as the unfor-
tunate policeman Marvin Nash.

After their simple robbery turns
into a bloody ambush, they rendez-
vous in a warehouse to ﬁgure out who
is the ‘rat.’

“There’s lots of swearing, violence
and blood,” Christensen said. “We’re
trying to bring theatre to the people.
The people who like lots of swearing,
violence and blood.” He wrote the script
for the play, adapting parts from
Tarantino’s first draﬁ, the published draft
and the movie. Props for the play in-
clude two cars, a straight razor, several
guns and many pints of stage blood.

— from staff reports

 

 

Both men’s and
women’s lacrosse
host first round
NCAA tournament
games

 

PAGE 4

Bulk Rale
US Postage

Monday
MAY 4, 1998

ix VMI cadets
convicted by
Honor Court

Hazing charges brought against mentors
of three freshmen lead to conflict
between honor and self-incrimination

BY PoLLY Doro

News EDITOR

Drums rolled early Saturday
morning as six Virginia Military In-
stitute cadets were escorted off cam-
pus, immediately following an Honor

4 Court conviction for lying.

Amidst charges of beating fresh-
men, seniors Donald Evans and
Phantamith Prompol of Alexandria, Va.,
and Jason Roderiques of North
Dartmouth, Mass. were expelled as a
result of lying about their involvement
in a “whack system.”

The seniors allegedly posted a list
of offenses such as receiving bad
grades or listening to country music
that would earn freshmen “whacks”
on the buttocks.

Freshmen Brandon Crane of
Evansville, Ind., Terence Redmond of
Hockessin, Del. and Arnold Gore of
Richmond, Va. were expelled for
falsely denying that the battering oc-
curred.

Much like neighboring institution
Washington and Lee University,
VMI’s Honor Code calls for a single
sanction for lying, cheating or steal-
ing—-—immediate expulsion from the
school.

The Honor Court is made up of
seven members, two faculty repre-
sentatives and ﬁve students. It is
completely run by cadets, accord-
ing to VMI spokesman Colonel
Michael Strickler, and a jury is se-
lected at random from the cadet
corps. Defendants are also allowed
to be represented by outside coun-
sel.

The Honor Court trial com-
menced Wednesday morning, with
defense lawyers attempting to sup-
press the original statements of the
cadets, claiming that they were co-
erced. According to the cadets, they
were dragged out of bed in the
middle of the night by student in-
vestigators.

The Honor Court returned with a
decision late Friday night following
two days of intense proceedings
and ﬁve hours of deliberations.

The verdict was followed a few
hours later by a “drum-out” cer-
emony, in which the guilty cadets
are led out as their names and crimes
are announced to the rest of the ca-
det corps.

Shortly thereafter, at 3 a.m. Sat-
urday morning, a ﬁre broke out in
an unoccupied basement room of the

VMI barracks.

The ﬁre was quickly noticed by
students studying nearby, but the
room was damaged and rendered in-
habitable. Strickler declined to say
whether the incident was related to
the convictions, or whether the
room was that of the three expelled
seniors.

The seniors claimed a conﬂict be-
tween the Fifth Amendmentfthe
right against self-incrimination, and
the VMI Honor Code, which explic-
itly forbids lying. The seniors were
told that they did not have to in-
criminate themselves, yet were
asked if they had beaten the fresh-
men. Thus, according to the cadets,
the choice was either lying or self-
incrimination.

Lawyers for the freshmen in-
volved stated that their clients were
under pr.essure to cover for the se-
niors, who were their mentors (or
“dykes”). VMI tradition mandates
that freshman be loyal to their se-
nior mentors.

“The Honor Code is held before
loyalty to oneself or to one’s fellow
cadets. It is held above all other sys-
tems,” Strickler said.

The trial was postponed from its
originally scheduled date of April 8,
so that the constitutional issues
raised by the cadets could be ad-
dressed. ,

All six cadets involved ﬁled mo-
tions with the 4th U.S. District Court
of Appeals to expedite their appeal
and delay the trial. The Appeals
Courtjudge questioned hisjurisdic-
tion in an Honor Court matter, and
the cadets’ motions were subse-
quently rejected by the Appeals
Court.

The three seniors involvedwould
have begun ﬁnal exams this week,
and subsequently graduated on
May 16.

Following the verdict, the cadets
plan to request a temporary restrain-
ing order Monday, which would
postpone the expulsions and make
it possible for the cadets to return
to campus in time to take their ﬁnal
exams.

The original Appeals Court judge
has been notiﬁed ofthis intent, and
has scheduled a hearing for 8:30 a.m.
Monday.

“Whatever the court, the law of
the land, decides, we will certainly
abide by it,” Strickler said.

What would
Mr. T say?

Phi Gamma
Delta freshman
Adam
Santosuosso
shaves Mike
C ri ttenden ’s
head while Tim
C orm ier stands
guard. Observ-
ing the annual
tradition, the Fiji
freshmen don
mohawks a week
before their
biggest party of
the year: the Fiji
Island Party.
PHOTO BY HOVEY

 

 
 

Op'nion
Ed rial

MAY 4, 1998

PAGE 2

Alumni Weekend:
Return to the good ol’ days

oes Alumni Weekend just pro

vide a short break from the daily

grind of being a corporate mo-
gul by inducing the nostalgia of a bet-
ter time when the priorities were drink-
ing, studying; fraternizing and wearing
the best khaki? Or is it just more of the
same in the life of a Washington & Lee
grad in corporate mogul form?

Maybe the alumni just strap on their
W&L insignia belts for this one special
weekend a year, but we doubt it. We
become a cult of preppy clones after
graduation. We behave the same, drink
the same, dress the same, speak the same
and move onto associate with people
just like the ones we met in college.

This is not necessarily a bad thing,
though. If anything, W&L teaches us
how to survive in the country club so-
ciety where we belong. The connections
propel us to the top of the corporate
world. The speaking tradition helps us
stay there by making us suck up to all
and appear to care about others. And the
“fashion” hasn’t changed since Bob
Dole was born, so there’s absolutely no
fear of being out of “prep-a-porter.”
Yup, we go to a charm school. There’s
just lots of extra homework.

It’s obvious that many of the alumni
deﬁnitely did their homework when it
came to binge drinking. You’d think
that some of the good ol’ boys would
have grown out of the Animal House
mentality, but old habits die hard. Years
of work, child rearing and middle-aged
maturity don’t put a wet blanket on
W&L alumni fun. Once they smell the
clear Lexington air, they’re taken back
to their 20s.

A W&L reunion is a great remedy for
a mid-life crisis. Despite the mortiﬁca-
tion that might ensue from a night of
alumni revelry, a reunion could actually
be very good for one’s mental health.

@112 ilting-tum iﬂhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Andrea Ewing
Sarah Meldrum

Executive Editors

Associate Editor
Copy Editor
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow
Stephanie Bianco

w&life Editors

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Photo Editor
Online Editor
Layout Assistant

Jill Jamieson
Brian Rogers
Steven Klotz

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring—tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540)462-4060

Fax: (540)462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

http://wIu.edu/~phi

w;.L ENi>vwMEi~irVAvLTl

    

M,

 

Time to take action

against troublemakers

In the three weeks since the allegations of hazing against the Chi Psi and Kappa
Alpha fraternities first came to light, several pressing issues have remained unre-
solved. Many of the individuals with whom I have spoken are convinced that the
investigative andjudicial proceedings for both cases demonstrate an institutional
disregard for the rights of students, and many more are frustrated with the degree
to which our faculty and staff seem ex-
called to account for

empt from being .
apparent acts of im- The H111 propriety. Without
being overly dramatic, MCQOI-mack ’99 one might con-

clude that the com- munity of trust at
Washington and Lee University is be-
ing replaced by one of mutual suspicion between the administration and stu-
dents.

Granted, there has always been some level of tension between those on oppo-
site sides of The Hill. On one side are those who argue that the autocratic tenden-
cies of the administration have been apparent in every decision from Winter Rush
to the smoking ban. On the other end are those who view student organizations
such as the IFC as beyond contempt, as they continuously pass regulations with-
out the means or desire to see them enforced. While on some level this conflict
might be viewed as natural, there are two reasons why I believe that the current
situation merits immediate attention.

My first reason is the dissatisfaction in this instance is far more intense and
more widespread than anything '

6 C

I have seen in my three years
at W&L. As I acknowledged
above, there have always been -
some unhappy elements on cam_ We need to -devise a process
that will meet the
expectations of both faculty
and students alike.

pus—but when was the last time
one of our newspapers felt it nec-
essary to devote an entire issue
to a single story? I fear that,
should we as a community fail to
reach a more satisfactory conclu- , ’
sion to these events, the linger-

ing resentment will continue to weaken whatever remains of the once strong
faculty/student relationship.

The second reason I believe this situation warrants further action is the fact
that the student judiciary system seems to have broken down. In the case of KA,
an anonymous student submitted a complaint not to the IFC, SJC or even the EC,
but to the director of security. What sort of resolution might have been reached if
that student had trusted his peers enough to submit to their jurisdiction? How can
we expect the faculty to trust us to direct our own affairs if we lack the confi-
dence of one of our own?

I recommend a systemic overhaul of the current judicial process, in accor-
dance with the directive of the Board of Tmstees regarding the simpliﬁcation and
afﬁmiation of student self-govemance. We need to devise a process that will
meet the expectations of both faculty and students alike.

(6

A uote of the week:

The 50-year-olds didn’t act 50.
They were college guys trapped in balder, older, fatter

bodies; and they didn’t tip.
—Anonymous bartender at Alumni Drunkfest

77

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁlii

(D Award

Has someone made your days at W&L a little bit happier?

The Ring-tum Phi would like professors and students to nominate seniors for
our annual Ring—tum Phi Award. The Ring-tum Phi Award honors a graduating
senior who hasn’t made the headlines but has contributed signiﬁcantly to Wash-
ington and Lee University.

Take a moment and write a paragraph about a special someone. E-mail it to
phi@w|u.edu.

  : When you were in college, did you expect to be where you are today?

2 , it 2

    

 

 

“No, I did not.”
—Jason Matthews, ’73

Foreign Service Ofﬁcer
for the State Dept.

“No”

-.'AM5.‘,  'j.‘\'gzj I
Vi/!"i3Hii\,‘: tr‘ §\}:?N{ 
" v o

      

l..EXlNG‘l QNV \,-‘A 3¢‘50

ti  ‘ea

—Corbet Bryant, ’68
Attorney

W&L jumps toward
Online Pre-registration

I have not heard many hopeful things said about online registration. In fact, I am not
sure that I have heard any. So I thought I would say some myself. I-Iere is my sales pitch for
online registration:

“Hey kids! Are you frustrated with class registration? Tired of camping out in clunky
old hallways so you can be there when the departmental secretary shows up? Sick of run-
ning all over campus, only to ﬁnd that the one course
you can take is the one you want the least?

Then try our new Online Registration! Yes, new
Online Registration—the super duper hassle-remover
guaranteed to get you out of line and into the class you

 Red Brick Row
i want!

,, 4 David Balsley 99
“Here is the secret to Online Registration success:

Online Registration uses a new, patented pre-registration process that allows students to tell
their professors which classes they want. That way, faculty can expand their course offer-
ings as needed before students register! Online Registration targets class shortages when
they are born, stopping them before they stop you! So try new Online Registration today.
Online Registration: We bring good things to life."

Okay, Online Registration will not make life so whiz-bang wonderful. Despite its
naysayers, however, the new system offers reason to hope that signing up for courses will
become easier.

   

The electronic pre-registration
associated with the new system wins
me over. I had been skeptical of
Online Registration, but the idea of
communicating to professors before
we sign up for classes which and
how many courses are needed,
makes so much sense that the whole
system seems worth it. 9 ’

The skeptic in me, however, wor-
ries that pre-registration may not have a signiﬁcant impact. First, it seems safe to assume
that, having been in business for 250 years, the faculty already knows which classes stu-
dents need and want.

If the professors have not met these needs and desires in the past, then it’s probably
because they lacked sufficient resources. In this case, pre-registration will not tell profes-
sors anything they do not know and it will not help them offer more courses.

Secondly, pre-registration may be no match for W&L students’ will to make things harder
then they need to be.

At the very least, though, electronic pre-registration can only make things better. How
much better remains to be seen, but it certainly cannot make registration worse.

I hope pre-registration will cut back on the ﬁghting associated with signing up for classes:
camping out, posting fake sign-up sheets, etc. We would not have to fight for courses if we
knew there were enough places.

Hey kids! Are you frustrated
with class registration?  Then try
new Online Registration.

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

A challenge for true student autonomy

Editor:
l’ve heard many students complaining recently about the erosion of student autonomy
at W&L and the rough treatment they and their peers have suffered at the hands of “The

Media.”
Don’t you just hate it when, simply because some of your buddies commit repeated

aggravated assault with a cattle prod or abduct a couple of women with intent to commit
sexual assault, “The Media” jump all over it and blow it out of proportion? And isn’t it
equally maddening when, just because the entire student judicial system ignores an ongoing
pattern of unlawful behavior, some troglodytes in the Administration trample all over stu-
dent autonomy?
Don’t despair. Here are a couple of handy household hints to help you get that stubborn
media tarnish off your reputation and restore that autonomous lustre:
Hint 1: Do not commit aggravated assault, on pledges or anybody, using a
cattle prod or anything else.
Hint 2: Do not abduct people, with sexual assault in mind or for any other reason.
These simple, economical, autonomous solutions can be carried out in less than a week-
end, using tools you probably have lying around your own brain. Try them; I guarantee
they’ll work.

Brian Richardson
Journalism Department

 
 
   
    
      
  
 

_c .99 VOYIN l‘lkTETll‘9

3 oapoprxikoe ewe?

8 You 1-mN\L you‘?-2

en wuuv? rvrvvvrtw‘
3.. 0N Tl-lé LINE: POP 0N0?"

fpgNp 11-re 6l'VV¢t~lT 99V‘l,
ZFFEND THE FMVLW, lrlf-/E
FVNI, evewin’ ‘/WV’ vww

The Ring-tum Phi
tr

W

U

"' R iTMlarl’\'

§ " Mrafﬁt-Ml’Na‘m

Q  'ﬁV\ lN I\’T‘
Tnefﬂw oFF‘w1'='.

 

 

 

 

“No, I did not expect to be where

I am now.” after college when I was in college.”
—Phil Cottell, ’68 —Susan Moseley, ’93
Professor at Miami of Ohio Graduate Student

-- A  /273k" _» — u:1-B-\-»‘«.4.2..~/ 
' \ j’.-,:‘_i.E-_»_.yr,):;,~.‘,.-

-r

T

T’

“I didn’t really think about things Y

Y

. ..t.......

 
  
 

 

‘-3 pack cost $0.96 at Wal-Mart.

’( MAY 4, 1998

AMONG THE EXOTlC and interesting animals offered for sale at Fur, Fins, and Feathers is the sugar glider. This
marsupial, which eats fruit and ﬁts snugly into the palm of your hand, can cost up to several hundred dollars. Still, for the
expense, you’re getting a lovable new best friend. For the less ﬁnancially sound or for those looking to buy something
a bit more mainstream, dogs, cats, ﬁsh and other animals are also available for purchase. Be wary of the W&L pet
policies, though; this little cutie could get you into big trouble. C()(/RTI-.'Sl’ or THI5RI:‘.S‘A Pl€()SSI:‘R

It's Travel Time!

[is spring, and that means it ’s time to relax, kick
bac, and travel to exotic and fun-ﬁlled locations. But
in our little corner of Virginia, there isn 't that much to
do close by (no, really? /). So here 's a guide to interest-
ing destinations just a few hours away from good old
Lex. This week, the end of the trail is at Busch Gardens
in Williamsburg, Va.

roller coaster.

Suddenly, you look down and realize that the ground is over 195 feet away. Your palms are sweaty and you
scream, but nothing can help you now as you plummet to the ground at 67 miles per hour. Just after you resign
yourself to the fact that the end is near, you realize that you are riding Alpengeist, the world’s tallest and fastest

Alpengeist and more than 35 other thrilling rides can be found at Busch Gardens in Williamsburg, VA. A trip
to Busch Gardens is the perfect opportunity for a weekend getaway with friends. While the suspenseful and
extremely popular Alpengeist is the major attraction this season, Busch Gardens has tons of other world re-
nowned rides like Drachen Fire and the Loch Ness Monster.

While Busch Gardens is only three hours away, you may feel like you have traveled all the way to Europe.
Besides the fabulous rides, the theme park also boasts a replica of a European community. You can travel through
picturesque Aquitaine, France and Hastings, England or eat delicious pasta in San Marco, Italy.

A single-day pass to Busch Gardens is $33, but ifyou have more time, a two—day pass is $43.95. Luck is on
your side, however, because all college students receive a $6 discount with their university identiﬁcation. The
directions are easy. Just takell-64S to I-2958 for about 150 miles until you reach 1-64E. Then go 36 miles to State‘
Rte. 143 and you are almost there. Whatever the price, the fun you will have at Busch Gardens will be worth every
dollar. So take a ride on the wild side — jump in the car and go to Busch Gardensll

Ir$"H.Ll.0\ .N\5i'1l.| ‘KC... VP-u.

&life

*Attention, Bookstore shoppers....
CD Where you buy your notebooks may affect your pocketbook

iv BY EUCA PRCBSER
BﬂFEA”lURl§ Forron
When it comes to buying supplies for the term, Wash-
ington and Lee University students might ﬁnd themselves
in a dilemma.
‘ll Where do smart shoppers go to ﬁnd the deals? Clearly,

stores like Wal-Mart have lower prices on necessities like '

notebooks and pens, but just how much lower? Is it worth
staying on campus and shopping at the University Book-
q, store for these much-needed items? We compared the prices
of several school supplies from both the
Bookstore and Wal—Mart, and the results
might surprise you.
An average 70-page single-subject
:4 notebook with one pocket is $2.67 at Wal-
Mart and $2.95 at the Bookstore, but the
discrepancy increased when the note-
book style changed. A recycled single-
subject notebook is $2.10 at the Book-
3‘ store, but it’s only $0.97 at Wal-Mart.
That makes a difference of$l .13, and the
list has onlyjust begun.
A four-ounce bottle of Elmer’s Glue”
,1 is $1.69 at the Bookstore and $0.78 at Wal-
Mart. You don’t use Elmer’s Glue“ anymore, you say?
You probably still use pens, right? The Bookstore sells
most pens and pencils individually at a cost of at least
$0.50 each; the same Bic® pens in a 10-

09.0167

CARD TYPE. XX
AUTH NO: 012345

SALE

I
SlGNATURE

DATE BMBBBBOO1 TIME

WAL*MART

CARD A120 0 UT: 99786432 124% ‘l 35

Don’t get the wrong idea; some things don’t vary
that much in price. A bottle of Wite-Out“ costs $1.89 at
the Bookstore and $1.28 at Wal-Mart. A box of staples is
$1.30 at the Bookstore and $1.24 at Wal-Mart.

Paper clips were actually more expensive at Wal-
Mart than on campus, with a 55-count box costing $0.82
at the SuperCenter and a 100-count box costing $1.25
at W&L. To put it in more comparable terms, that’s about
1.5 cents per clip at Wal-Mart and 1.25 cents per clip at
the Bookstore. .

Now let’s go shopping. Suppose we
buy two notebooks (one recycled), ten
pens, a roll of tape, glue, 24 pencils, a
l00—sheet legal pad, Crayola® markers,
Crayola® pencils and Wite—OutTM. In-
cluding the 4.5% Virginia sales tax, the
bill at the Bookstore comes to about
$30.22, while the same items at Wal-Mart
come to about $ 16.36. The Wal-Mart bill
isjust a little more than halfthe Book-
store bill. How can this be? The main
reason is that Wal-Mart is big enough
to buy in bulk at a lower cost, while the
Bookstore is simply too small to do
that.Before you start abandoning the campus supply out-
let, though, consider the other factors involved.

For one thing, a trip to Wal-Mart involves more costs
than just money. Gas for the car, time

r\/vv‘

10:23 AM

EXP DATE: 1‘|/97
REF NO‘ 043.1132

$14.30

Pencils cost at least $0.20 each at °9’°"97

the Bookstore, while a 24-pack of the
same pencils at Wal-Mart costs $1.37.
‘ Do you use tape? Well, a 300-inch roll of
Scotch® tape costs $1.25 at the Book-
store, while a 450-inch roll (the smallest
one available) costs only $0.72 at Wal-
Mart. And for all you lawyer types, a 50-
Csheet legal pad is $1.15 at the Bookstore.

A 100-sheet pad is $1.97 at Wal-Mart.
Even art supplies vary drastically. An

CARD TYPE: XX
AUTH NO: 012346

SALE

X
SIGNATURE

DATE %8888888D01 T I ME

Wi»\SHl_\IGTON,«.NnLEE
UNIVERSITY

University Bookstore

CARD ACCOUT: %T6543212468‘136

$ 23.45

spent getting out there and back (espe-
cially if you must park in the freshman
lot) and the crowds you will deﬁnitely
ﬁnd at the SuperCenter are all marks
against shopping big.

The Bookstore, by contrast, is
closer, and purchases can be charged
home. Quality is about the same between
spots, and while the selection is better
at Wal-Mart, you might ﬁnd yourself
buying more than you need because it’s
all so cheap.

10:23 AM

EXP DATE: 11/87
REF NE): 013-1132

eight-pack of Crayola® classic markers costs
$2.97 at Wal-Mart; the same markers are a whopping $4.10 on
campus. A 12-pack of Crayola® colored pencils is $2.84 at
the Bookstore, but that price drops to $1.97 at Wal-Mart.

In the end, you must weigh the fac-
tors yourself. Don’t forget, though: the most important
item on your list cannot be bought at Wal-Mart. Blue books
are available only in the Bookstore.

Place a classified
ad in the Phi! it’s
only 2 bucks for 10
words. Drop your
ad off on the
second floor of the
University Center.

Do you like to write? ,

‘ Do you want to see your name in lights (or bylines)?
Then write for the Phi features section!

Call Erica at 464-1806 (e-mail: eprosser@ w/u.edu) or
Ginger at X441 1 (e—mail: phi//ipsg@ wlu. edu).

HEY, YOU!

PAGE 3

Where the WILD things are

CD Campus pets aren’t just dogs anymore; in fact, they’re scarier

BY CHRISTINA JULIAN
Hr STAFF Warm:

t has been said that a dog is a man’s best friend, but
what about all those other animals?

For some Washington and Lee students, unusual pets
provide similar companionship and offer more excitement
than the average canine. Some interesting specimens even
turn up in the freshman dorms, where pets are forbidden.

One freshman said that his turtle, Beta, has been a
great pet. Turtles require little care and, according to
Beta’s owner, just have to be fed. It might seem strange
to have a turtle, but this student has a blast with his
reptilian pal.

‘‘[It’s fun] watching Beta run around,” he said.

Watching the unique movements of pets seems to be
a common feature among owners. Another freshman owns
a tarantula, and he is fascinated when the.spider hunts for
food. The tarantula, which has yet to be named, feeds on
large crickets and stalks to capture
his meal.

The owner wanted a tarantula 
because he is a biology m'ajor and is
interested in watching it grow. His
furry friend was ordered from the
Carolina Biological Supply Company
and is only about three weeks old.

One W&L junior had hermit
crabs when he was a freshman. The
shelled critters were not cuddly, but
they were entertaining, he said. That
is, until he left the window open dur-
ing the winter.

“The crabs were in their cage right
in front of the window,” he said. “It got cold that night.
When I woke up, they both justfell out of their shells. I
guess they couldn’t handle the
temperature.” His pets were
dead, but he  was eager to get
more.

“They were
“There was always
they would pinch
were still pretty cool.”

Several fresh- men experience unwanted
pets their ﬁrst year in the dorms. Various insects, mostly
cockroaches, make themselves at home in the freshmen
rooms, to the disgust of the students. Roaches crawl down
the walls, ﬂutter across computer keyboards and inﬁltrate
packages of cookies by the end of the year.

_‘‘It is gross,” one girl said. “The roaches are so big that

fun,” he said.
the chance that
you, but they

l}i?‘:75B§7tiami Gom

3 g 3 [Rating system: 0= terrible; 1= poor, ‘

l,:‘.,i:;’RaIiimstein “Sehnsucht”
j,-‘mm,ors - r W

I ‘It is very strange just how good the.Ger1rian ign-
 ,_ rguage sounds over techno—metal. 
 it from industrial leader KMFDM, who employs ‘esatn
' , technique, Rammstein screams in a deep v
 German phrases likeamilitary oﬁicer.‘ ‘

‘ Ainerican market has taken a liking to th  in
 ‘.‘Du haste,-” making it the #1 most reque ‘
4 ‘ Rammstein says,as only he cangin the song

. _ .,f0.“you have me” and “you hate me.” Im,‘ 

'  ; , ing neglected is reflected in other songson ,
ilovepcan play. 2 » A s
5 _. Nothing quite like intense music with a 

the Shocker “Charge it 
‘¢hk1/2of5 , 4 .

and the values ofbeing part ofthe“No LimitFamily”
on his first album. , ’ ‘ 5

does not back up their machismo sound.

the club  rappers saved by record company execs.

We carry unusual
pets like snakes,
African hedgehogs
and sugar gliders...

Fur, Fins, and Feathers

Silkk the Shocker, Master P’s newest protégé,itoots his 0”

P’s beats do well with Silkk’s choppy  loud style.Y''Ilie ’ K ,
lem is that the appearance of Silkk and his main back-up'Mystikal

Silkk’s rhymes also come off as being unoriginal. “Pd still be
sellin’ drugs if I wasn’t wit No Limit,” says Silkk in“No,Lit_nit Soldier.” 7
Yes, you’re supposed to rap what you know, but c’mon Silkk ——-ljoinf «

Master P has a Southern rap style that takes getting used to ‘G
can eventually grow on you -—- if you can get past the lyrics. '

it doesn’t look like you can
kill them with just a shoe.”

Luckily, Buildings
and Grounds personnel can
drop piles of white powder in
the corners of each room and scare the bugs
away. These “pets” are unwelcome squatters, but other
animals are very welcome by the students.

Although many W&L students have pets, the Uni-
versity prohibits pets of any kind in the dormitories or
residence halls. Bonnie Walker, secretary to Dean of Fresh-
man Dennis Manning, handles housing arrangements at
W&L. She said that pets are not allowed because of the
problems they could represent.

“The policies regarding pets are printed in the hous-
ing contracts that the students sign,” she said.

Fraternities houses are also prohibited from having
pets because they are owned by the university.

Mike Young, Director of Security, said that the prob-
lems pets create can be damaging to
W&L students and property.

“Pets can bring fleas and can
soil the rugs or chew furniture,” he
said. Bill Messerle, a residence as-
sistant in Gaines last year, busted a
sophomore who kept gerbils in her
suite because he said that pet hair
can linger and cause allergic reac-
tions in other students.

Such reasoning does not seem to
apply to animals without fur or teeth,
though, and contraband pets are
steadily becoming companions to dor-
mitory residents.

Despite the no-pet policy in the dorms, pets are al-
lowed in academic buildings, and many professors and
students bring four-legged friends to class.

If you suddenly have a craving for something to
love, dogs and other not—so—ordinary pets can be pur-
chased at the Fur, Fins, and Feathers pet shop on South
Randolph Street. The most common pets sold there are
ﬁsh and ferrets, but employee Anne Reid said that un-
common animals are also popular.

“We carry unusual pets like snakes, African hedge-
hogs and sugar gliders, which look like a cross between
a ﬂying squirrel and a monkey,” she said.

What sort of pet should you rush out and buy
now? Reid recommended hamsters and gerbils, which
are small and easy to care for, as great college pets. But
ifyou live in the dorms, think twice: your pet could get
you in trouble.

- Anne Reid —

77

.  Qtinveniently translates both
is sentiment of longing an
hes fora piano on which his

as -—-heis credited with
Rooster” and “Heaven

, _ strange experimenta 

§{[l__ZllI‘(~)§/75' g‘ orns in on “Cut You In”, and ‘
if " It fit forahotel lobby. ¢ 
stliat Cantrell, one of the
“:1 show off his skills

 

PAGE 4

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
W?’ SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals fell behind early but
used a ten-goal run to down VMI 17-
10 in the eleventh annual Lee-Jackson
Lacrosse Classic on Saturday after-
noon at Wilson Field. An estimated
crowd of 4,200 watched the Generals
down the Keydets and claim the city
championship for the tenth straight
year.

The Keydets (4-10) took an early 3-1
lead and used back-to-back goals at the
end of the first quarter to make it 6-3.
Steve Schwanke’s goal with 1 1:24 left in
the second quarter gave the Keydets a
7-4 lead, and it looked as though the
Generals ten-year streak might be in jeop-
ardy. But the Generals (12-2, 5-1 ODAC)
heard the wake-up call and held the
Keydets scoreless for over 18 minutes
to take a commanding 14-7 lead midway
through the third quarter.

“They came out fired up,”said se-
nior captain Paul Stanley. “We knew
they were good and that they wanted
this game; this was their champion-
ship game.”

“They came out ready to play and
it took us a while to get going,” said
freshman midﬁelder Pope Hackney.
“1t’s such a big rivalry and with so
many people in the stands; it’s a really
fun game to play in. A lot of us know
players on the other team too, so that
makes it all the more intense.

Things got ugly late in the game,
once the Generals had the victory in
hand and VMI began to feel the frus-
tration of losing to the Generals for
the tenth straight season. Fights
nearly broke out on several occasions
but cooler heads prevailed.

“We took some cheap shots from
them in the third and fourth quarters,”
said Hackney, but we’re proud we kept
our composure and didn’t retaliate.”

Freshman attackman Matt Dugan
had four goals and one assist for the
Generals and was named W&L’s re-
cipient of the Worell-Fallon Award as
the team’s most outstanding player.
Junior attackman Mayson Ayers was
VMI’s recipient of the Worell-Fallon
Award as he led the Keydets with three
goals and three assists. Mayson’s
older brother Charles won the award
last year for VMI after he set a Lee-
Jackson record with 28 saves.

Sophomore attackman Colin
Dougherty reached a milestone for the
Generals, scoring three goals and add-
ing two assists to go over the 100-
point mark for his career.

Colin Dougherty set a record by
reaching the 100-point plateau in only
28 games, faster than any other player
in school history. Don Caroll, the Gen-
erals’ all-time leading scorer, reached

100 career points in his 31st game.

Hackney and seniors Tom Fallace
and Ed Dougherty each had two goals
for the Generals and Stanley had one
goal and three assists. Matt Gallienne,
Tony Seraceni and Andrew Rogers
each had two goals for VMI.

NEED
CASH?

The Ring-tum Phi needs help
selling ads. You’ll earn
commission on each ad you
sell. Leave a message at
462-4060 or e-mail
j_jamieso@wlu.edu.

HELP
WANTED

Men and women earn
$375 weekly process-
ing/assembling Medi-
cal l.D. Cards at
home. Immediate
openings, your local
area. Experience un-
necessary, will train.

Call Medicard,
1-541-386-5290
Ext. 1 18M.

SENIOR ED DOUGHERTY
and freshman Pope Hackney
celebrate after winning the

eleventh annual Lee-Jackson
Lacrosse Classic. HOLLISTER
HOVEY/EXECUTIVE EDITOR

BY JASON ZAcHI~3z

Men’s, women’s
lax get NCAA bid

SENIOR Fnrrorz

Sunday was a banner day for the
Washington and Lee lacrosse program.
Both the men’s and women’s teams re-
ceived bids for the NCAA Division III
tournament and will play at home on
Wednesday.

The men host Denison College at 1
p.m. on Wilson Field. For the Generals
(12-2, 5-1 ODAC), it will be their fourth
Division III tournament appearance.
W&L also received seven Division I
tournament bids in the 1970 ‘s.

The Generals are 1-4 lifetime against
the Big Red The last match-up between
the two teams was in 1996 when W&L
lost 10-9 in overtime. Denison (7-5) is
0-5 against tournament teams this year.

“We don’t know too much about
them,” sophomore Colin Dougherty

said. “We lost to them the last two times,
but we’re looking forward to beating
them.”

If the Generals get by Denison, they
will play No. 1 Ohio Wesleyan Satur-
day at Wilson Field. Ohio Wesleyan
cannot host NCAA tournament games
because of NCAA probation.

Thewomen’s lacrosseteam (13-2, 10-
0 ODAC) drew a home game against St.
Mary’s (Md.) (12-2, 2-2 CAC). The
women are making their first trip since
1993, and play Wednesday at 4 p.m. on
the Liberty Hall Fields.

St. Mary’s beat the Generals 13-1 on
April 13. The Generals were held score-
less for the ﬁrst 48 minutes of the game.
Senior captain Whitney Parker was in-
jured during the previous game with a
torn hamstring.

“We’re really looking forward to

*~(_

MAY 4, 1998

MEN’S DIVISION III LACROSSE PAIRINGS WoMEN’s DIVISION III LACROSSE PAIRINGS )‘
First Round Quarterfinals First Round Quarterfinals
Wed., May 6 Sat., May 9 Wed., May 6 Sat., May 9
Semifinals Finals Semiﬁnals Finals ’
Sat., May 16 Sun., May 24 Sat., May 16 Sun., May 17
(1) Ohio Wesleyan (13-1) College of NJ (12-0)
Denison g7-5; W&L 113-2) _.__j I’
W&L(12-2) St. Mary’s (12-2)
(4) Nazareth (1 1-2) Middlebury (13-2) >
Middlebury (10-3) Denison (9-8)
Ithaca“ 1-22 Johns Hopkins (13-2)
)‘
(3) Hampden-Sydney (12-1) Williams (1 1-1)
Washington College (10-4) Ithaca 9_5 “
 L—j- Trim 1 1-2
Salisbury State (13-1) William Smith (1 1-1)
Cortland 19-5 2 Haffwick £ 14-22 -————-— V
Gettysburg (10-4) Franklin & Marshall (12-4)

playing them,” Parker said.

“Sweet! There is a God,” coach Jan
Hathom exclaimed. “We can get that
game back. The last time we played, a
lot of things went wrong —— everyone

was at fault.”

If the women exact their revenge
against St. Mary’s, they will travel to
No. 1 College of New Jersey on Satur-
day. The Generals played the College
of N.J . last year, and only lost 8-6.

Unlike other W&L home games,

tickets will be sold for the games. Tick- ‘U
ets prices are $3 for adults, $1 for chil-
dren, and will be on sale at the athletic
offices and various other locations
around campus. Admission charges are I.

PREGNANT...
AND FEELING
ALONE?
WANT SOME
CHOICES TO
CONSIDER?

F

Lexington, Virginia "

mandated by the NCAA.

ono
Lodge .

Comfortable and affordable, the Econo Lodge at
Lexington is conveniently located at the lntersec- 2‘
tion of I-64 and US Highway 11, putting you close

to all the historical sights of this area.

. . ‘ . . D
The Nurturing Network is dedicated to helping any Accommodations:
woman with an unwanted pregnancy give life to her ~ 48 Attractive Guest Rooms with Scenic Mountain Views
unborn child. We have specialized resources to meet 0 ColorCab|eTV— Free ESPN and HBO . . *
the practical needs of working and college women  o Klng Beds and/orTwo Double Beds—Non—SmokIng AValIabIe
Offer/"79 3 real 3/t9m3t"V9  0'79 Which F9009”/‘Z93 0 Free Continental Breakfast; Free Local Phone Calls
your unique values, needs, and circumstances. . . Restauramswithin walking distance
A phone call to 1-800-TNN-4MOM can help you Attractions: I‘
_ give V99’ cmld a future 0 Natural Bridge— 16 miles
wlthout gwmg up on your own‘ 0 Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee University W
The 0 VA Horse Center '
Nurturin ‘ll
Network 0 Stonewa|lJackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

 

