  
 

 

and Robin disk

fowl toad.

 

PAGE 3

Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 4

Food critics Doug

out the skinny on

 

;...,:'vuu.,; ,;, ,_‘_—_ybURN UBRARY

WASHINGTON & LE

5 UNiVEFISlTY

LEXINGTON, VA 2.44.59

ucI141997 ’

  
  
  
  
  

Trips to
heaﬂh
center

on rise

BY HEATHER MCDONALD

STAFF WRITER

The Student Health Center has
been a busy place this year.

Alcohol-related admissions to the
inﬁrmary have been more than double
so far this year than at this time last
year. The SHC has held a total of 24
freshmen, three sophomores and one
senior overnight for observation this
year. Only ten students had been ad-
mitted to or visited the SHC by mid-
October I996.

Alcohol-related admissions,
which include an overnight stay, in-
cluded students who were suffering
from alcohol poisoning and severe in-
toxication. Visits to the SHC included
injuries resulting from impaired fac-
ulties, less severe intoxication and re-
quests for the moming-after pill.

The Blood Alcohol Concentration
of students who have gone to the SHC
has ranged from 0.125 to 0.337. The
legal limit for those under 21 is 0.02
and 0.08 for those 21 and over.

“It is a very complicated problem,”
Director of Health Services Dr. Jane
Horton said. “The environment of
W&L, the behavior of the (freshman

' I and sophornore’;'peerigro"upattptay1r”*'

part (in binge drinking).”

“Another factor is that all the fresh-
men live together and are a fairly ho-
mogenous group.

Many students already have ex-
periences with binge drinking ‘in
high school so there is already a his-
tory of it.”

There has been a noticeable drop
in the number of juniors and seniors
who have alcohol-related problems,
Horton said.

“This means they have either
moved away from the social scene or
they know their limits better,” said
Horton.

Yet Horton emphasized that more
visits to the SHC do not necessarily
mean more drinking, but that students
are more responsible about going to
the SHC or bringing their friends

Campus
thefts
conﬁnue

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
——————————-—- NEWS EDITOR

The crime spree at Washington
and Lee isn’t over.

Last week, there were two
more incidents of theft on this
campus. Thursday night, junior
Laura Goodwin’s wallet was sto-
len from her science library car-
rel. Although Goodwin spent
four hours on the phone cancel-
ing her various accounts, the thief
was able to charge $89 on one of
her credit cards on an Internet ser-
vice. No cash was stolen.

A W&L student and an assistant
science librarian were sitting near
Goodwin’s carrel and did not no-
tice anything suspicious.

Young feels that the use of the
credit card will aid authorities in the
apprehension oﬁthe thief, although
they have no le' s.yet.

In a separate incident last week,
$10 in cash was stolen from a W&L
woman’ s bag in the Doremus gym-
nasium women’s locker room.

“Everyone should be cognizant
that we have a problem here. The
honor system is a wonderful thing,
but it doesn’t apply to people who
don’t believe in it,” Young said.

BASKING IN THE GLORY 

Senior Mary New accepts her title as 1997 Homecoming Queen with her escort T.J. Griﬂin ’97. The
parachuter, who delivered the announcement, bears a striking resemblance to George Washington  in
“Saturday N ight Fever. " HOLl.lS7Y§R H0l’EY/PHOTO EDITOR

In a dazzling display of

offensive mastery, the

Generals claimed their

ﬁrst victory of the season

in front of a massive
Homecoming crowd.

PAGE 4

-tum Iﬂlti

 

  

Upcoming midterms
will be The death of
Associate Editor
Andrea Ewing.

PAGE 4

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Pcnnit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
OCTOBER 13, 1997

  

when they’ve had too much to drink.

“Everyone has experienced in-
creased sensitivity after Jack
Bowden’s death last May,” Horton
said. “The increased number of visits

may well be for different attitudes,
and advertising by the SHC.”
Horton said that she would much
rather have inebriated students
brought to the SHC than having

them put back in their rooms.
Horton and four seniors recently
attended a convention to investigate
ways to curb binge drinking and will
be researching various approaches.

BYOB drains East,Lex’s
normal alcohol profits

“Fratemities should not be looked at as bars,” IFC

BY KELLY TOTTEN

BYOB has put a dent in the kegs at East Lex.
The East Lexington Store, the convenience store that
has sold party supplies to fraternities for 21 years, is feel-

STAFF WRITER

the regulation.

ing the repercussions of the Interfraternity Council’s new

“Bring Your Own Booze” policy. Owner Jim Bowen esti-
mates that one-third of his business comes from fratemi-
ties. The new policy, however, makes it illegal for frater-
nities to use house funds to purchase alcohol.

“It’s definitely off from what it would normally be,”

Bowen said of fraternity business.

In the past, many fraternities had accounts at East Lex.
Now, accounts are only used for ice, cups and other non-
alcoholic party necessities. The fraternities’ accounts for
beer have been replaced by individuals who have collected
money on their own to pay, Bowen said.

“lt’s not helping my business,” he commented, “but
it’s not like I’m looking for a huge growth in alcohol con-

sumption.”

The BYOB policy, implemented this fall, has forced
fraternity members to come up with alternative ways to

provide beer.

An account at East Lex used to make collecting beer
money easier for Chi Psi, said President Russ Woody, but
they’ve canceled it this year. Although it never ofﬁcially
used house funds to purchase alcohol for parties, the
fratemity’s practice of “passing the hat” is now considered a
violation of the IFC policy. Brothers are responsible for
bringing their own beer and liquor, which also means they
are responsible for who drinks their beer and liquor.

Individual responsibility is one of the objectives be-

hind the policy.

President Jason Callen said.
With the increasing national focus on risk management
and fraternity responsibility, Woody was not surprised by

in SEEKEGSPAGE2

The East Lex tradition hangs in the balance after the

implementation of B Y QB. H01./.I.s'1I;k H()l'l;‘l/PH()l'() En/'roR

It

SJC stakes
own turf  

ERICA PROssER

A STAFF WRITER

he Student Judicial Commit-

tee has extended the concept

of honor. But they claim they

don’t have to step on the toes of the
Executive Committee to do so.

The rumor that the SJC has be-
come the new hearing board for
honor violations is untrue, SJC
President Mary Jo Mahoney said.
The Executive Committee is still
the final word for lying, cheating
and stealing. However, students
have come to associate honor sim-
ply with those three concepts.
Mahoney and the SJC believe that
“honorable behavior” does not
end with those things.

“It’s the same idealistic founda-
tion,” Mahoney said. “The deﬁnition
of honor can be carried past lying,
cheating, and stealing.”

Mahoney explained that the SJC’s
growth since spring 1996 has been
complicated and important and many
students are unaware of the commit-
tee and the procedure changes. Few
people know, for example, that the
SJC Blue Book was modeled after the
EC White Book.

“People were losing confidence
in the SCC,” Mahoney said.

The‘pr'o’ces's'of creating the cur-
rent SJC was poorly followed by
students, Mahoney said. Open fo-
rums held for discussion ofthe Blue
Book were usually attended by only
a few people. She said that the
changes made are important; proce-
dures in the committee have been
defined more clearly, and automatic
penalties exist now. Students need
to know about the changes before
they suffer penalties they didn’t
expect for an action.

Mahoney said that the students
have not been well-informed, and
the SJC needs to make itself more
known to the W&L population.
Therefore, the jurisdiction of the
SJC can be more easily explained
for the students by the term “hon-
orable conduct.” Acts such as van-
dalism, fighting and other “un-

gentlemanly” practices cannot be
categorized as lying, cheating or
stealing, so the SJC becomes nec-
essary. But the committee is shar-
ing power with the EC, not taking
power from it.

“The SJ C can turn cases over to the
EC and vice-versa,” Mahoney said.

Every case is evaluated for the
proper jurisdiction. The procedure for
reporting cases to the SJC is much the
same as in reporting cases to the EC;
a student can try to work out the situ-
ation on his own, but the committee
will act on what is reported.

Mahoney emphasized that the
change in the appeals process directly
affect students.

Previously, a student could ap-
peal a case to the University Board
of Appeals, which would send the
case back to the committee with a
recommendation. Now the stu-
dent may appeal to the University
Board of Appeals, and the Board’s
decision is the final word on the
matter.

The concept of “honorable con-
duct” and the SJC is nothing new. All
student governing bodies on campus
exist to discourage “ungentlemanly”
behavior. But simply using the word
“honorable” may help to remind stu-
dents that honor does not end with the
three major offenses associated with
the EC.

Mahoney made it clear that a
violation of SJC rules is not an
“honor violation,” and she said
that students should remember
that the EC still holds the power
of punishment for lying, cheating,
and stealing. But the SJC is serv-
ing a purpose in the enforcement
of Robert E. Lee’s “notion of in-
dividual responsibility.”

“We’re trying to get people to carry
themselves more honorably,”
Mahoney said.

President John Elrod praises
the efforts of the SJC. “They’ve
been trying really hard to empha-
size personal responsibility and
exercise actions that fall outside
the jurisdiction of the EC.”

Local help for battered women:

Habitat, Project Horizon
build Lexington shelter

BY DANIEL SOZOMENU
STAFF WRITER

 

Lexington is by deﬁnition a small
town.

Unfortunately, it is not without
big- city problems. Domestic vio-
lence, an enormous problem in this
country, is a real problem here, de-
spite the apparent peacefulness and
beauty ofthe Shenadoah Valley.

To help on a local level, Wash-
ington and Lee’s Habitat for Hu-
manity and Rockbridge County’s
domestic abuse organization Project
Horizon are beginning work in the
next few weeks on the first shelter
in Lexington for battered women
and their young children. Most of
the construction will take place in
April.

The shelter will have three floors
and a basement and will immedi-
ately accommodate 12 women.
Plans to expand capacity for 16
women are already in the works.

“This is the first project with
strictly students involved first-
hand,” Habitat President David
Sugerman said. “The shelter is a
way to reduce potential problems
for women who have no option but
to leave.”

The nearest shelters are in
Stanton and Roanoke, neither of
which is exactly around the corner,

tn

Sugerman said.

This newest project will incor-
porate manpower from both the
W&L and Virginia Military Insti-
tute Habitat for Humanity
programs.The construction will be
supervised by the Timber Framers
Guild.

Professor Grigg Mullin, an in-
structor ofcivil engineering at VMI,
had recruited cadets to put together
the catapult called Trebuche, which
now resides on the VMI parade
grounds. The cadets assembled the
device through the use of heavy
timbers, piquing the interest ofthe
Timber Framers Guild.

Since then, the TFG has been ac-
tive in the Lexington and Buena
Vista areas, especially in the erect-
ing of houses.

“The women will be able to be
independent as well as live and talk
with other women who endured the
same things,” Sugerman said.

The W&L Executive Committee
allocated $7500 for the affair, while
plans to rafﬂe off President EIrod’s
parking space to raise more funds
are in the works. In addition, the
W&L and VMI Student Activities
Boards are working in conjunction

to arrange a benefit concert, with
its revenue defraying the operating
costs ofthe shelter.

  

PAGE 2

APO
builds
steps

ANDREA EWING
‘—“'—“—“—* ASSOGATE EDITOR

behind the library; there is a
ew addition to the hill. Last
Saturday morning, 14 members of
Alpha Phi Omega, Washington and
Lee’s service fraternity, helped to
build eight steps down the slope
leading to Woods Creek, making it
easier for Woods Creek residents
to get to the library.

The group began around 9 a.m.
with tools provided by Buildings
and Grounds.

APO started the project with
only eight steps and will add seven
more soon.

The area itself will be the object
of an ongoing project with a hand-
rail to be added later as well as some
plants and a bench.

Junior Patrick McCormack
first introduced the idea at a plan-
ning retreat a year and a half a
ago. The project was given final
approval at last year’s spring
planning retreat. McCormack is
working with Scott Beebe of
Buildings and Grounds through-
out the evolution of the area.

I t’s a little easier to climb the hill

  I1€WS

GET THE SKINNY ON GRADUATE SCHOOLS

There will be a presentation Tuesday, Oct. 14, in Northern Auditorium about graduate
school . The discussion will focus on what to expect in making applications for graduated
study. The presentation will be followed by a question and answer session with Cecile
West-Settle, associate dean of the college, and Ken Ruscio, associated dean of the Will-
iams School of Commerce.

“The whole projectwill make it easier good to invest in our school while we HAMMING IT JAZZ UP   AT THE 
to go from Woods Creek to the library,” are here and try to make it better. up  Two Beta
McCormack said. “When the new stu- With the number of people who Theta Pi ‘s goof _ , . _ _
dent center is built there will be much Showed up to he1p,the group was able oﬂduring the . Assistant. MUSIC Professor Terry Vosbem and four_W&L students will present a free
more traffic’ not only from woods Creek to get done What it had planned to Homecoming jazz concert in the GHQ today from 8:30-10 p.m. The jazz ensemble includes’ saxaphone,
but the whole 5 ch 0 01.” complete_ football game trumpet, piano, drumns and contrabass instruments. There will be free soft drinks and hot
The main idea behind the project ac_ “There were some limitations’ but against beverages served. The event is sponsored by the Sonoklect Festival of Twentieth-Century
cording to McCormack is to “make it a the heart was there and we did as much Davidson, The Mus”
much better environment where students as we could with the limitations,” Washington
can go and study.” McCormack said. and Lee
None of the supplies used to build the These past Saturday mornings Generals won SCIENCE CENTER DEDICATION
Stegsugglrfegusrﬁﬁsgg ‘:;11:hr::r(())::n::'S 36:33 tsgdirrilgfoil/I; (t):eg(;lrI;ga EEJSICS imk The new science center will be officially dedicated Sat. Oct. 18, at noon followed by a
Came from the Southeast Railroad Com_ the library HOVEY/PHOTO buffet luncheon on Stemmons Plaza. There will be an open house with informal tours and
. laboratory demonstrations from 9 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. The Robert Lee Telford Lecture will
pany in Salem. All the labor came from The group wants to get other orga- 1;1)[T()R

nizations and Students involved not be delivered by Dr. Stephen Jay Gould from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. in Lee Chapel.

only in this project but also helping

other areas of the campus.
McCormack says that any group or

individual who wants to help in this

students who wanted to help improve
their campus.

One of the four main areas of service
for APO is service to the university, and
McCormack feels this project embodies
just this principle.

-Compiled by Kathryn Mayurnik

or any project can contact him by
phone at 462-5245 or by e-mail at 3-2.
pmcc0rma@wIu.edu.

But he says “improving campus

at a party, you are literally taking money out of
needs to be a campus-wide effort. It is

someone’s wallet,” Callen commented. “Per-
sonally, I don’t feel like it’s my responsibility

 

ke Wl;l1_L Y93 , , , CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 as afratemity member to pay for everyone else’s
ta me ome.  f t beer}:
1000’ ’ 851319"! 1   “There was no way of getting around it. It’s Others feel that their Friday and Saturday
takes two orphan _ _ , all about liability,” Woody said. “BYOB was nights are losing the sense of escapism provided
blk’"e”’5 "}’:e The headhne 1n last Week 3 inevitable.’ by worry-free bartending and an endless sup-
" 9551778 0 t 3 ' - - Woody claims that the policy is not a big 1 ofbeer,
. » edition incorrectl stated th . . . . . . P Y
ammals 0’ the y ’  deal, it just simply takes the responsibility off “Some brothers feel that parties are more
Robert E. Lee purposg of J Duncan 3 gafnlng from the fraternity. BYOB will also raise about risk management than having fun,” said
Epistzcal Church 1 b H k .   1 .th party-goers’ awareness, believes Callen. John Dziok, treasurer of Sigma Phi Epsilon.
last Sunday. C u - 6 See 3 1n 1V1 ua S W1 People should not just be aware about how “But the penalty is too huge to even think about
K"”""’” ’V"""”’“/ creativity and imagination for mud‘ theya"? drinking, but Whose alcohol going against (the policy)?’
R"N°'"’M PH" _ they are drinking, he S81d- Sig Ep never used house funds to purchase
h1S club. “People need to stop expecting beer when alcohol but, unlike Chi Psi, the fraternity has
' i I - theyrgo to “these parties. When you ask for beer kept its account at East Lex- to buy ice,

No credit, No job, No parent-singer, N0 security deposit!

no credit "‘ bad credit * no income?

Guaranteed Credit cards with Credit Limits

Up To $10,000 Within Days!

'.'ou [Ian ﬂualifg To Receive
Tum |]f the [Host Illidelg Used
Credit Cards In The lllorld Today!

Want VISA 6- MasterCard Credit Cards?

N

 

ORDER FORM

YES!

CRA. PO BOX

I want Credit Cards immediately.

GUARANTEED APPROVAL
1 6662, ATLANTA, GA 30321




  Tired of Being Turned Down?

GUARANTEED $10,000 IN CREDIT

I
I

I

I

I

I

I

 .
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

II

OCTOBER 13, 1997 E

 

 

 

PAGE 3

W&life

 

OCTOBER 13, 1997

.Woods Creek Grocery celebrates anniversary

BY LIZDEITER

w&un3 EDITOR

It’s often compared to the Whistle Stop Cafe, but al-
though the Woods Creek Grocery may evoke images from
“Fried Green Tomatoes,” this little ﬁnd isn’t the ﬁgment
of a Hollywood imagination.

Oct. 27 will mark the one-year anniversary of the re-
I markable renaissance of Woods Creek Grocery. In the year
that has passed since Mellie Strickler bought and renovated
the ramshackle convenience store on Lime Kiln Road has
evolved into a warm and inviting cafe.

. After 5 years as a restauranteur in Farmville, Va., Strickler
t‘ had decided to take some time off. While in Lexingtonvisiting a
friend, she looked in the paper for a house to buy.

“I actually had no intention of buying a business,”
Strickler said. “I was going to spend a year skiing and pad-

st dling. But then I saw a picture of this place and fell in love
with it. It wasn’t even a good picture!”

When Strickler bought the grocery, it had been closed
for the first time in its 75 year history. She redesigned the
store, brightening it up and adding a kitchen. At ﬁrst,

¢« Strickler concentrated on stocking groceries and prepared only
baked goods, breakfast, soup and take-out sandwiches.

Soon after Strickler opened, she was visited by Pennie
Griffin, an old friend from their bartending days together in
Washington, D.C. Strickler quickly convinced Griﬂin to quit

 

moved here the following Wednesday,” laughed Griﬂin.

Woods Creek Grocery has that kind of enchanting ef-
fect on people. The small wooden building nestled next to
the Chessie Trail is charming and unpretentious, with a porch
out back and seating inside. The grocery is stocked with
alcohol and foodstuﬁs. The restaurant developed as its repu-
tation grew. Customers became friends and donated chairs
and tables, painted a mural and spread the word.

“I’ve never seen anything like this,” Grifﬁn said of
the grocery. “People are always saying, ‘When are you
going to expand?’ but if we did, we’d change the charac-
ter of the place. lt’s nice being small.”

While most of the customers are townspeople, stu-
dents are catching on, too. Strickler has hired a third per-
son to adjust to growing demand, but is happy with the
small size of the grocery.

Soup, salads and sandwiches are standard fare, but
Strickler and Griffin vary the dinner menu. Their recipes
come from the combined 42 years of restaurant experi-
ence between them, as well as cooking magazines. Din-
ner prices range from $4.25 to $8. Excellent choices in-
clude the Cajun grilled chicken breast, crabcakes and any
of the tempting desserts.

After a year in Lexington, the two friends mean to
stay here long into the future.

“I plan on staying here forever. I’ve never been as

‘ . _ . V _ _ WOODS CREEK GROCERY is located just beyond the Lenfest Center, close enough to campus to grab lunch
her job in DC. and move to Lexington to help run the store. happy as I am now,” said Strickler. be twee ,1 Classes. HOLUSTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDHOR
“I came down the ﬁrst Friday in November, and I “lt’s a great town,” added Griffin. 4
topics as career de- In January 1998, Schroer-Lamont
velopment, balance will travel to Sweden for six months

4 D e a n A n n e S C h  e r_ L a  O  I between work and with her husband, who has received a

I family, sexual ha- Fulbright Fellowship to teach and re-

. I I rassment and search there. She is taking this op-

P I O n e e r | n g e n d e r I S S U e S gender stereotyp- portunity to enrich her studies again.
ing. Participants Through her extensive research,

4 received instruction in Schroer-Lamont has focused onanarea

schools, and the language careers ﬁeld put themselves in challenging situa- tion composed of re- how to locate sources for gen- which has traditionally been ignored.
BY GINGER PHILUPS STAFF WRITER dried up. During this time, Schroer- tions both intellectually and physi- searchers, professors der research and how to construct Schroer-Lamont also serves as the
Lamont began to seriously consider cally to see how resilient they are.” and professionals V A a quality gender case study. advisor for the Women’s Forum and
4 ean Anne Schroer-Lamont counseling as a profession; she later In 1985 Schroer-Lamont began a from over fifty  p A I In an article written for the Women inLeadersliip, two student or-
has proven herself to be an received her doctorate in counseling 10-year study on women here at countries. There she “ served as a WACRA newsletter, Schroer-Lamont ganizations forwomenhere oncampus.
asset to the W&L community and higher education administration at W&L. She followed these women moderator for researchers and speak- and her col- C C These groups pro-
in her role as director of counseling the University of Northern Colorado. through their undergraduate years and ers. She also met two other women at leagues write, mote interaction be-
and as Associate Dean. Schroer-Lamont came to W&L in 1985 into their graduate and professional the conference who were active in the “Gender cases ] have had the tween female stu-

,( Schroer-Lamont was raised in when the school became coeducational. lives. This study was continued when ﬁeld of gender study. present an area of beneﬁt of he] in dents andfemalefac-
northwestern Pennsylvania and at- Schroer-Lamont is a pioneer in Schroer-Lamont was a Scholar in Following the conference, Schroer- complexitywhich p g u1tyanddealwithis-
tended undergraduate school at Deﬁ- another area as well: gender issues. Residence at the Center For Women’s Lamont and these two colleagues de- many students are wom en becom 6 sues faoedby women
ance College in Ohio, where she pio- She began to research women’sissues, Research at the University of Oslo veloped a presentation to teach re- not prepared to Str0nger_ inschoolandiritheir

_ neered the junior-year study abroad including key decisions that women during the winter of searchers and educators how to write address in their personal hves.

‘~~ program. Schroer-Lamont took ad- must make in their 1996. She compared 110 case studies on gender issues. Ac- future work- “I have had the
vantage of the program that she had personal and profes- Norwegian women with ' cording to Schroer-Lamont, case place.” Schroer- - Anne Schroer-Lamont benefit of helping
hel ed to establish; she studied sional lives. Of spe- the W&L women and studies are invaluable tools used at Lamont’s partici- women become
abrgadyherself at the University of cial interest to her. advanced cross cultural universities, law and medical schools pation at the con- . 7 , stronger,” Schroer-

‘ Strasbourg in.Frar__ice.. 1 . . . . are gifted women. ..researchinthis ﬁeld. and other educational institutions. ferenoewassoenjoyed    .‘,'1€;QQe gfthe most:

After getting a master’s degree in and how they deal During the summer of Amazingly, the entire presentation asked to return in 1998 for the confer- rewarding job and I feel blessed to
French and Spanish, Schroer-Lamont with work, family, 1997, Schroer-Lamont was arranged through e-mail and was ence to be held in Marseille, France. have this position.”
began teaching high school French. and society. attended the World As- presented at this year’s WACRA con-
Even then she was utilizing her coun- “Personal strength sociation for Case ference in Edinburgh, Scotland. In

.i seling skills, as students would often and courage are very method Research and this way Schroer-Lamont has helped

seek her advice. important qualities for Application conference to bring gender issues onto the inter-
In the 1970s, foreign language re- women to access,” she ‘ ~ 5 in Warsaw, Poland. national scene.
quirements were removed from says. “Women should 5Gh|'0ef-Lamont WACRA is anorganiza- These gender issues include such
it
I , .
Gourmet meals with a college student s budget.
I I I
«Feathered friends in your kitchen
BY DOUGLAS BROWN 8‘ preparation of that versatile white An important initial element is and be sure to use anti-bacterial soap
ROBIN SEATON meat, chicken. We eat chicken fre- properly handling raw chicken. To on your hands before handling other
‘ STAFF Wm?” quently, because Doug prefers meat protect your kitchen and yourself items in the kitchen. If you place the s
‘ The notoriously limited budgets of and starches to vegetables, and be- from bacteria, place chicken in aplas- meat on any surfaces, cleaning them
college students affect even yours cause there are so many unique ways tic bag before youbring it home. The immediately with anti-bacterial
truly. So we have decided to dedi- to prepare it. bags found in the vegetable section cleanser is necessary. Utensils used
cate this week’s ar- at the grocery store work well. If withthe chickenmustbe cleanedthor- _ T V ' 1 ;: ~:  V _  ‘s  Vi _ g, . ' ,  A ' a
ti ticle to the budget- a . you plan to wait several days before oughly before using them on other  ff ‘Asmey  "’¢1‘~?”'¥f’ "7. , K’S§ the G"4s' "R’tM0."NT PICTURES

    

conscious home

 

I
Cut boneless chicken breasts into
several small strips, the more the bet- ' 9 9
ter. Fry them in olive oil until they  ‘  s
. start to turn golden brown. Wash the 0 Q o
h’ chicken off your knife and cut small  
strips of your favorite raw vegetables; pjaee who1e boneless skinless
We 036“ Ch°°5e gr°_'3“ PePPer5> mush‘ breasts in a casserole dish. Liberally
r90rn5> 1°t5 Of °n19n_a rnayba Snrne douse chicken with Worcestershire and
‘( pineapple - the possibilities are limit- soy sauces’ salt, pepper and onion pow-
1655- Continue Cookrng this rnixture, der. Spoon contents of small container
adding WhateVer 5P1Ce5 You Prefer? of frozen concentrate orange juice onto
garlic, soy sauce, lots of salt, a honey- chicken. Cover with foil and allow to
mustard Saucaa Italian Salad dressing: marinate for several hours in refrigera-
it etc. When the vegetables are soft and

Doug’: Stir-Fry:

pliable, serve your creation over rice
or noodles and enjoy.

V0

        
 

  

x rest‘: From
f Nit I-.1:-vi

J

tor, and then bake, still covered, at 3 50
degrees until golden on top. Wild rice
makes a tasty accent for this dish.

"3 0 1

cooking it, freezing the chicken
is also advisable.

Wash raw

chicken thor-

oughly before

you begin to

cook it,

      
  

dishes. We may sound overly-cau-
tious, but we know several people
around Lexington who have made
themselves and others very sick
through their carelessness.

We have several suggested meth-
ods for preparing chicken. We hope
you have gain a sense of the numer-
ous possibilities available when cook-
ing chicken. Experimenting with it

. rarely goes wrong. lt’s

healthy, tasty and

friendly on the col-

lege budget.

   

  

Southern Fried Chicken:

Fill a large Ziploc bag with two cups of ﬂour, salt, pepper, onion
powder and any other desired seasonings. Drop each chicken piece indi-
vidually into the bag; seal and shake to coat chicken. Cook chicken in a
skillet of hot vegetable or olive oil until crispy. We suggest mashed
potatoes with gravy, corn and sweet tea to complete this meal.

 

  

 

1 . ‘  Theﬂpreview for “Kiss the

, . Girls" looked so promising..Scary,

3 = seductive —— something for every-

9 _rref;We wanted our ﬁrst cinematic

critique to be positive; however,
"the movie sadly let us down.

Kiss the Girls stars Morgan
Freeman, Judd and Cary Elwes.
Ashley Judd and Elwes are easy on
the eyes and Morgan Freeman is a
talented actor. He plays the role
‘of smart cop better than anyone
(is. “Seven”). The actors did well
with what they had. But they did
not have much.

The plot, while intriguing, was
shallow in its execution. A serial
killer is victimizing beautiful tal-
ented women in Durham, N.C. He
collects the women (not girls) and
stores them away in a dungeon in
the woods. He feeds them peanut
butter and jelly sandwiches, drugs
them, and presurriably rapes them
(although we are fortunately spared
any scenes of sexual violence).

Judd, a young doctor and ama-
teur kick-boxer, uses her superb
butt-kicking skills to escape from
the dungeon. Freeman, who is

  

  
 
    

 

    

 

(3-o irls’.doesn’t
xpectations

. some kind of cop psychologist,
comes to question Judd and to-
gether they set out after the killer.
Freeman, coincidentally, is the
uncle of one of the missing girls
and thus has a strong emotional tie
to the case.

There are few twists and turns
in the plot. There is actually more
than one killer, but we are never
told how the killers came to know
each other or what their childhoods
were like or any other juicy infor-
mation that might help us to un-
derstand their motives.

We heard a rumor that the book
on which this movie is based is
pretty good. Perhaps it would an-
swer our questions. Maybe one of
us will actually get a chance to read
it some day, but not this term.

While we don’t have too many
good things to say about this
movie. we still suggest that you
check it out. It was not horrible‘, it
just wasn’t as good as we’d ex-
pected. We would place “Kiss the
Girls” somewhere in the tliree-out-
of-five stars range. It is a moder-
ately entertaining way to spend a
couple hours —— particularly con-
sidering the other options available
in Metro Lex.

 

PAGE 4

 

RESULTS

Football (1-4)
Sat.: A W&L"
Davidson

Volleyball (10-8)

32
22

 

Tues.: Lynchburg 0
W&L 3
Fri./ W&L 2
Sat.: Sewanee 3
W&L 2
Westminister 3
W&L 1
Centre 3
W&L 1
Greensboro 3
Women’s Soccer (10-0)
Thu.: W&L 3
Roanoke 2
Sat.: Goucher 0
W&L 2
Men’s Soccer (7-2)
Wed.: W&L 6
Lynchburg 2
Sat.: H-Sydney 3
‘ W&L 0
Men’s X-Country
1st place in Virginia State
Championships
Women’s X-Country
3rd place in Virginia State
Championships
AH EAD
Football
Sat.: at Hampden-Sydney
Volleyball

Thurs.: at Guilford

Men’s Soccer
Wed.: at Bridgewater
Fri.: at Savannah A&D

Women’s Soccer
Wed.: Home at 4:00 vs.
Lynchburg
Sat.: Home at 12:00 vs.
College of ND
Men’s"'&’W6’iii‘en’s‘ ‘
X-Country
Sat: Allentown Invitational

Before a capacity Homecoming
crowd at Wilson Field,
quarterback Christian Batchellor
led the Generals to victory

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
STAFF WRHER

F:[Vhe Washington & Lee football
team celebrated homecoming
in grand style as it captured its
first victory in a 32-22 win over
Davidson College. Sophomore quar-
terback Christian Batchellor tied a
school record as he threw 4 touch-
down passes including a 47-yard
strike to freshman wide receiver Wes
Hardy in the third quarter. It was
surely a career day for Batchellor, who
ﬁnished the game 18-28 for 288 yards,
no interceptions and four touchdowns.
Tailback Seth Mckinley also had a big
game as he picked up 94 yards on 28
carries and ﬁnished the game with 146
total yards.

It wasn’t only the offense that got
the job done for the Generals, the de-
fense and special teams also played
extremely well. The defense, led by
Jack Boyd and Omar Moneim, con-
sistently stopped the Davidson offense
in key third down situations. The de-
fense wrapped up the game when de-
fensive back Ryan Fletemeyer recov-
ered a Davidson fumble inside the
Generals ﬁve-yard line late in the 4th
quarter. The kicking game was ex-
cellent for the Generals as Matt
Holbrook had a great day. Holbrook
booted a 35-yard ﬁeld goal in the ﬁrst
half but more importantly he pinned
the Wildcats inside the five-yard line
twice in the second half, including a
49-yard punt that tolled out of bounds
at the Davidson two-yard line.

Things did not look good for the
Generals early as they fell behind 14-
3 early on in the game. With two min-
utes left in the 1st quarter, the Wild-
cats took the lead 7-0 after Eric

' ‘Ferguson ran 10-yards straight up the

middle for a touchdown. The Gener-
als offense looked like it was going to
have yet another long day as it failed

FRESHMAN AMANDA MERMO (#5 ely dodgesjeeble attempt by a Goucherplayer to illegally bring

to pick up a single ﬁrst down in the
opening quarter.

However, the Generals put to-
gether a four minute drive early in the
second quarter which ended in a 35-
yard ﬁeld goal from Matt Holbrook
to cut the lead to 7-3. Two minutes
later, the Wildcats struck back as quar-
terback Tommy Dugan ran 54 yards
to the Generals two-yard line and then
ran it in from there for a touchdown.
The option worked well against the
Generals in the ﬁrst half as Dugan
picked up over 100 yards in the open-
ing half.

In what would be the turning point
of the game, the Generals scored 15
points in the ﬁnal two minutes of the
ﬁrst half and took a 18-14 lead into
the locker room. With two minutes
left, Christian Batchellor connected
with freshman Scott Humphreys in the
corner of the endzone for a touchdown
and then Batchellor hit Scott Moses
for a successful two point conversion
making the score 14-1 1. The Gener-
als defense then forced the Wildcats
to go three and out and the Generals
got the ball back with under one
minute remaining. After two long
passes across the middle to
Humpheys, Batchellor connected with
l.T. Malatesta for a 13-yard touch-
down and the Generals took the lead
for good.

Batchellor took advantage of ex-
cellent pass protection from his offen-
sive line and he was able to sit back
in the pocket and utilize his strong and
accurate arm. The Generals went up
by l 1 after Batchellor threw a 47-yard
touchdown pass to Wes Hardy off a
play action fake. However, the Wild-
cats came roaring back as Tommy
Dugan hit a wide-open Eric Ferguson
for a 27-yard touchdown and follow-
ing a successful two-point conversion
the score was 25-22.

her down. The Generals proceeded to silence the Gophers 2-0 extending their season record to 6-0.

H OLLISTER H 0 VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Women’s soccer extends  
winning streak to 10

BY FRANCES GROBERG
———:—-j—-—— STAFF WRnER

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team is just unbeatable. This
past week, they extended their win-
ning streak to ten, the longest in school
history, with victories over Goucher
and Roanoke. The team is now 10-0
for the season.

On Saturday, while most of the
W&L population was busy tailgat-
ing, the Generals were in the midst
of their fourth shutout of the sea-
son against Goucher. The game was
scoreless throughout the first half,
but the women managed to pull out
the game.

Less than four minutes into the
second half, freshman Amanda
McDermott scored her second goal
of the season, unassisted, to put the

team up 1-0. Then, with 3:20 left
on the clock, junior captain Karin
Treese scored her 15th goal of the
season off a through ball from se-
nior Erica Reineke.

The Generals’ success in the game
came from their midﬁeld domination,
which was so effective that the W&L
goalies, Stephanie McKnight and
Lauren Harris, did not have to make a
save. The Generals outshot their op-
ponents 17 to four and won seven cor-
ner kicks to Goucher’s three.

On Thursday against Roanoke.
Treese scored her eighth ganie-win-
ning goal of the season to preserve
the women soccer teams unbeaten
record. The junior captain has
scored all but one of the game-win-
ners this season.

During regulation time. it didn’t

always seem like the women would
have trouble with Roanoke. Junior
Nicole J olmson scored the ﬁrst goal
ofthe game and the only goal ofthe
first half on a cross from Reineke.
Midway through the second half,
freshman Shana Levine scored on a
pass from junior Elizabeth Richey
to increase the margin to 2-0 for
the Generals.

Roanoke would not back down,
however, and would get two goals
late in the second halfto force the
game into overtime. With 12 min-
utes left in regulation time. ten
minutes after Levine’s goal,
Roanoke”s Cozy Joseph headed a
corner kick into the goal.

Despite the decreased margin. it

{CD See SOOCER page 5

sports

Generals trounc

-

OCTOBER 13, 1997

  
 
  
     
  
  
   
    
  
     

SENIOR DEFENSIVE TACKLE Omarlltoneim (#99) crushes the Davidson ball-carrier; exemplifj/ing the

Generals superior defensive performance in their ﬁrst victory of the season against the Wildcats.

H OLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

However, in the end it would be
the Generals day. Early in the 4th
quarter Batchellor tied the school
record after he threw his 4th touch-
down of the day, this one a two-yard
strike to Scott Moses. The Generals
smothering defense and Matt
Holbrook’s clutch punting helped
hold Davidson scoreless in the ﬁnal
quarter and F letenmeyer’s fumble re-
covery sealed the deal.

The homecoming victory improves
the Generals record to 1-4 and drops
Davidson to 2-3. Washington & Lee
now heads back out on the road for
two straight road games. Next week
they are at Hampden-Sydney and the
following week they are at Sewanee.

  Game Stats
W&L vs. Davidson

W&L Q
1 st downs 17 21
Rushes/yds. 35/174 38/39
Passing yds. 288 185

Off. plays/yds 66/377 66/359

Time ofPos. 32:38 27:22

THE SPORTS IUNKIE
BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

NHL Dream Team Ruins
Spirit of Olympics

s the National Hockey
League enters its 81st sea
son, there will be a new
twist to the nine-month long
hockey season. This February,
the NHL will have a two-and-a-
half week break so the best profes-
sional hockey players in the world
can participate in the Winter'Olym-

: -pro  in Nogono, Japan; This
TThas:.;drawn many comparisons to

basketball’s “ Dream Team” of the
1992 and 1996 Summer Olympic

Games in which the United States
Olympic basketball team was made
up of a cast of superstars from the
NBA. However, this is not the case
in hockey as the NHL has a much
more international ﬂavor. Not only
will star players from the NHL par-
ticipate for the United States, but
players from Canada, Russia and
Sweden will also play for their re-
spective countries, each of them
with a good chance to win the gold.
1 ﬁnd myself strongly opposed

to the use of professional athletes
in the Olympics. Like basketball, I
think this is yet another eifort to
promote a league and make more

proﬁts. That is what sports is all
about in this era: making money and
lots of it. The NHL sees this as an
opportunity to make so more money
off the game of hockey by using the
Olympics as a personal method of
advertisement to help sell the game
across the globe. The NHL has al-
ready’ begun this campaign as last
week the Anaheim Mighty Ducks

and the Vancouver Canucks faced ‘
off in a regular season game in

Tokyo.

The use of professional athletes
does away with the use of amateur
athletes that created hockey legends
such as the 1980 United States
hockey teams “Miracle on Ice." A
group of unknown amateurs would
bring together the entire country in
shouts of,  USA! USA! USA!”

Now the professional “Dream
Teams” are ruining the actual
dreams of amateur athletes who
grew up with visions of represent-
ing their country in the prestigious
Olympic Games.

Personally, I found the basketball

®seejUNKii3page5

GW Semester in Washington

An lliitlcmrarltiatc Prorrram in Political Maii.1<rcincnt
D D a

Spring, Suinincr, and Fall Sessions

Make Connections to
Launch Your Career

Now Accepting Applications
On A Rolling Admissions Basis

Apply NOW!

Session Deadlines:

Spring - October 31, 1997
Summer - March 3l, i998
Fall —lune l, l998

Ther e
at n
nive ity

WASHINGION UL

GW is an equal opportunity/ollirmalive oclion inslilulion

Tile Graduate

 

School of
Political

anagement

f

For More Information, And To Receive An Application, Contact:

(800) 367-4776, (202) 994-6000 hltp://www.gwu.edu‘/~gspm

Now Accepting Applications On A Rolling Admissions Basis.
Apply NOW! Spring Session Deadline: October 3l, I997

   
 

   
  
    
    
    
      
    
     
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
    
   
   

     
 
   

 

 

7“ OCTOBER 15, 1997

Jock Shorts -

- Men’s soccer collects homecoming loss -
- Volleyball gets swept at Maryville tourny -
‘  - X--country score high in states -

Men’s Soccer

g With a large Homecoming
crowd looking on, the men’s soc-
cer team on Saturday dropped a
huge game to ODAC rival
Hampton-Sydney. Hampden-
Sydney, as yet undefeated in
league play, looked hungry for a
win on Washington and Lee turf.

. The all-male school scored two

‘ goals within the ﬁrst ﬁfteen and

a half minutes of play, and the
shaken Generals would never
recover. Though they created
several opportunities to score,

ﬂ the Generals couldn’t capitalize

and were shut out 3-0 in what

could prove a tell-tale game for
their season.

The men’s soccer team came
into the game riding on a ﬁve-
game winning streak and look-
ing for a big Homecoming vic-
tory against the first place
Sydney. A win on Saturday
would have boosted the team’s
overall season record to 8-1 and
established their status as a ma-
jor contender this year. How-
ever, Hampden-Sydney’s early
goals and physical play proved
a bit too much for the Generals
to handle. The Sydney players
attacked constantly and aggres-
sively, and managed to rack up
26 fouls despite the fact that the
referees called a very loose
game. At times things got a
little out of hand, with the con-
test looking more like a cheap
street-fight than a ﬂuid soccer
game. However, the teams
managed to avoid a full scale-
brawl despite a few close calls
in the second half.

Saturday’s loss does not bode
well for the men’s soccer team
who came into the season with
very high expectations. Although
playing well, the Generals have
been unable to rise to the chal-

650

A age

I there
its

your
. ]

'I3UToe61°<5‘”b

“ 0Frhe Hf

lenge of big-time competitors
Hampden-Sydney and Virginia
Wesleyan. Although Saturday’s
game is deﬁnitely not the last word
on their season, the Generals will need
to ﬁnd the will to rise to the occasion
if they wish to be number one.

Volleyball

Perhaps head coach Terri
Dadio’s team should stop schedul-
ing tournaments and instead stick to
conference games. The Generals
struggled once again in an out-of-
town tournament last week, ﬁnish-
ing last in the Emory Tournament,
following a seventh place ﬁnish in
the Maryville tournament several
weeks ago. On the up side, they
continued their impressive streak of
consecutive ODAC regular season
victories against Lynchburg on
Tuesday. It now stands at 23
straight games. The Generals are
currently 10-8 overall, 6-0 in con-
ference play.

Against Lynchburg, who entered
the game with a 14-5 record, 2-2
ODAC, the Generals put away a
stingy defense to roll 15-6, 15-11,
15-11. In the first game, the teams
traded points and serves until the
score reached 7-5 in favor of the
Generals. After two serves from
sophomore Nancy Reinhart and four
from senior Hilary Martin, however,
W&L leaped to a 13-5 advantage;
the run featured kills from Reinhart,
senior Holly Thomsen, and junior
Megan Snodgrass. After trading
sideouts, sophomore Megan Macy
served twice, one of which was an ace,
to end the game.

Games two and three were hard-
fought affairs. Lynchburg was able
to keep both close due to a strong de-
fensive effort, especially in terms of
blocking potential W&L kills. In
game two, Lynchburg pulled to a 10-
6 advantage before Reinhart, helped
by kills from Thomsen, and Martin,

 

_Guitors, Amps, RA.s,

  

ROCKBRIDGE

MUSIC
Q

served ﬁve times, including an ace,
to make it 11-10. Freshman Pam
Saulsbury closed the game with
three service points, the last of
which was another ace. Overall, the
Generals had nine aces for the
match. The ﬁnal game was much
of the same, as the Generals fought
their way to a tenuous 10-7 lead.
However, consecutive service
points from senior Ali Beard,
Snodgrass and freshman Melissa
Williams made it 14-7. After sur-
rendering four straight, the Gener-
als iced the match with a 15-11 vic-
tory. Overall, Reinhart had 14 kills,
Martin 12 kills and 11 digs, and
Saulsbury 23 assists.

Little went right for the Gener-
als at Emory. In the ﬁrst match,
they fell to Sewanee in a heartbreak-
ing marathon match 15-6, 10-15, 5-
15, 15-8, 10-15 despite 23 kills and
22 digs from Reinhart, 19 kills and
20 digs from Thomsen and 34 as-
sists from Beard. They followed
that loss with a rematch against
Westminster, a team they faced in
the Maryville tournament. The re-
sult was the same, however, as re-
gionally ranked #8 Westminster
cruised to a 15-2, 15-7, 15-12 vic-
tory. Martin led the team with seven
kills. In the third game, the Gener-
als faced Centre. Despite 11 kills
from Reinhart, nine kills from
Snodgrass and 27 assists from
Beard, W&Llost6-15, 17-15, 3-15,
4-15. In the last game, Greensboro
defeated the Generals for seventh
place 15-4; 15-5, 11-15, 15-6.

The Generals play only once this
week, at Guilford on Thursday.

X-Country

Senior Jason Callen, with a time
of 26: 18, and junior Darrick Alford,
with a time of 26:24, ﬁnished 1-2
to lead the men’ 5 cross country
team to the Virginia Division II-III
State Championship at the
Rockingham County Fairgrounds
on Saturday. The Generals ﬁnished
with a score of 31 to distance them-
selves from runner-up Roanoke by
25 points. Other top ﬁnishers were
Alex Taylor who finished eighth

& Accessories.

DIANA MIIDSEN-SCHUFIELD
205 North Main Street 6
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Phone (540) 453-5455

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BOOKING AVAIIABIE:
|| 1010!, DUO], TRIOL BAND!

sports

  

Open: 8 a.m.—6 p.m.
Monday-Saturday

Lexington Laundry Service
and

ALTERATIONS

22 N. Main Street, Lexington

Teresa Dattolo, Owner
464-4001

/D/eare 66/ffé

 

Frau/by a/ra/ftaaé/(I29
ﬂex//9 /a////after 43/net? a/Ia///13-es’

J. 5%/y fczta/so/ag //"0//( 9 am - 7 /Mr

  //%ei/21f/‘,0/rb‘ of tie
W /1/Ewe/6.?/if €e/(L‘e/‘/

HABITAT FOR HUMANITY WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

overall with a time of 26:55, Greg
Ruthig who ﬁnished ninth with a
time of 26:58, and Will Olson who
ﬁnished llth coming in at 27:25.
Next week, the men will head
Gettysburg to compete in the
Gettysburg Invitational.

The women’s cross country team
finished in third place, just two
points behind eventual winner
Lynchburg, at the Virginia Division
II-Ill State Championship meet at
the Rockingham County Fair-
grounds on Saturday. Junior Natalia
Dorofeeva once again led the squad
with a second place ﬁnish overall
and a time of 20:05. Other top ﬁn-
ishers for the Generals were Carson
Flowers (sixth overall, 20:21),
Elizabeth Grenfell (12th, 21:18),
Wendy Case(l9th, 21 :39), and Jana
Heisler (20th, 21:41). Next week,
the women will travel to Gettysburg
to compete at the Gettysburg Invi-
tational.

Q9 SOCCER

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

looked like W&L was going to
come out with a win, but with just
1:18 left on the clock, another
Roanoke player, Jenn Sember, rock-
eted a shot into goal from way out-
side the penalty area.

This time it was the Generals
who would not give up. (Freshman
Lindsay Williams had a great
chance off of a cross Reineke with
just ten seconds left in the game, but

it hit off the crossbar, forcing the

game to go into overtime.

1:08 into overtime, Treese was
fouled outside the penalty box. Her
low shot around the left side of the
wall beat Roanoke goalie Kate
Enright to the near post, giving the
Generals the overtime win.

This week, the Generals will try
once again to defend their unbeaten
record on Wednesday against
Lynchburg at 4 p.m. and Saturday
against Notre Dame of Maryland at
12 p.m. Both games will be on the
Liberty Hall Fields and promise to be
entertaining.

® JUNKIE

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

dream teams not nearly as exciting as
they were built up to be. What is the
enjoyment of watching a team that
you know is going to win go out and
destroy someone? I saw the decision
of the United States to put together
the basketball dream teams not only
as economically selﬁsh, but also as
egotistical and ethnocentric. We
couldn’t stand losing to anybody at a
game that we invented, so we had to
go gather up our greatest players, tell
our amateurs to take a hike and prove
that the United States doesn’t take
crap from anyone.

This doesn’t apply as much to
hockey, as I mentioned earlier, it isn’t
only the United States that’s stacking
their team. However, hockey does
surpass basketball in one aspect. The
N1-IL actually has to interrupt its sea-
son to take part in the Olympics, while
the Olympics conveniently falls in the
off-season for basketball.

But despite my objections to the

NHL’s decision, there still are some.

 

LEE{::§HI TRAVEL

PAGE 5

interesting aspects to having NHL
players in the Olympics. Players who
are teammates during the regular sea-
son will now ﬁnd themselves on op-
posite sides of ice when they play for
their respective countries. Or, on the
opposite side, players who ﬁnd them-
selves against each other in big NHL
rivalries such as the Red Wings and
Avalanche, will ﬁnd themselves on
the same team. It certainly makes for
interesting happenings in the locker
room.

Professional sports will continue
to move in on the Olympic market and
you will most likely see more and
more dream teams in coming Olym-
pic games. The amateurs will con-
tinueto have their dreams and goals
shattered, and the Olympics will con-
tinue to become an economically
driven event. However, many fans
will enjoy seeing their favorite NHL
starts going head-to-head in the big-
gest sporting event in the world. As
for me, I’d much rather cheer for a
bunch of young nobodies whose
dreams of representing America
would have come true in Japan.

 

   
 
  
   
   
 
   
       
 

,5  ‘:".’:..‘

*DAYTONA DUAL
Sit-Down Racing

  

‘A’ GOLDEN TE 9'1
3-DCOLF

 

GAME ROOM

The Lexington Area’s
Best Equipped Arcade

      
  
     
    

ELVIRA. BUST-A-MOVE. AND MUCH MORE

BRING A FRIEND.
Come on by and have fun

Rt. 11 North
Provided by Top Notch Amusement

 

> PLAZA

  

*MﬂXlH(IH FORCE.
E POLICE TRGIHER
GUN COIN

*MEGA-TOUCH X-L

TOUCH SCREEN

  

   

J

MO '

BAGELS ° CROISSANTS ° MUFFINS
CINNAMON ROLLS ° SCONES &
WHAT FOLKS SAY IS THE BEST
COFFEE THIS SIDE OF SEATTLE

9 W. WASHINGTON ST. ° 464-6586 - WEEKEDAYS 7:30-5:30 ° SATURDAY 8:00-5:00 ° SUNDAY 9:00-4:00

 
   

 

IIXINIITIIN

Wemo"-.Wm6°e

    

lICl'l1l:lil_\'

Spring Term,
Semester, or
Full year

GAME ROOM UNIVERSITY CENTER

S\\ cdcn

at

7:00 p.m.

in

l;Ii\\.|n

STUDY ABROAD

General Information Meeting

on

Tuesday, October 21  

Limited
Financial Aid
Available

I)cnm.irL

mIn,In.j lrrnun )

 

 

 

'-'*'-'-'-.'-'-'-*'-'-'-.'-'-'- . '-'-'-'-'-'-'-'i
.\ .H.Ec’H.1'$/ 
‘ MAY COMPANY L

/F.=E'.=E.PT°.~\ i

@ TuEsdAy, OCTobER 14 ®

    UNivERsiTy CENTER j
RM. 114 _

®   7pI\/I @J :

  Tuesdaynigkt wag 
never so mucjn $6   

gﬁ

 

.,,,.,W,,.ﬂ..._.,”_.W.H_Wm~

 

 

A

1

I

V.

1

R

ion
rial

PAGE 7 OCT. 13, 1997

Binge Drinking:
it’s time to stop

Binge drinking — it’s almost a buzz word
these days. The kind of drinking defined as
more than five drinks on one or more occa-
sions in two weeks.

Alcohol-related admissions to the infir-
mary have more than doubled this year.
That's right, 28 students have spent the night
recovering in the student health center. Last
year, after homecoming, only 10 students
had been admitted.

So far this school-year, at Louisiana State
University, and then at Massachusetes Insti-
tute of Technology students died from binge
drinking.

It could never happen here. We’ve heard it
said a thousand times, this school is too
small, BYOB is working, students here are
educated about the dangers of binge drinking
and yet 

Every weekend students drink beyond
their limits, beyond the buzz. The amount of
alchol a person consumes shouldn’t give him
or her bragging rights, but at this school, it is
a common Monday-moming conversation.

It’s okay to have a few drinks, enough to
losen inhibitions, dance wildly and ﬂirt
fantastically.

But you can always stop. That’s right, turn
down the last beer, start to sober up as the
night wears on.

The benefits are amazing, you’ll wake up
with a clear head the next day. No hangover,
no reason to stay in bed past noon.

Recalling how you ended up in bed will be
much easier. Recalling who you ended up in
bed with will be much easier. You’ll even be
able to relate stories about your friends.

Most of all,you won’t take that one drink
that puts you over the edge. The one last
drink that puts you in a coma. The kind of
coma that looks a lot like sleep.

A sleep you never wake up from.

“Q
UOTEOFTHEWEEK

You might want to turn
off my alarm clock, I’m
not coming horne.

—— A considerate roommate

99
Elite iiitng-tum lﬂlit

Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Hillary Coombs
Andrea Ewing

Executive Editors

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor Kathryn Mayumik

w&life Editors Llz Detter
Tarah Grant
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Cliff Woolley
Asst. Copy Editor Holly Estes
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

Asst. Advertising Editor

Rebecca Cuny

Matthew Craig
' Douglas Brown

Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub-
scription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica-
tions Board elects the Executive Editor and Business
Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office. room 208 of the University Center. by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumbissions for
content and length. Letters. columns. and "My Views"
do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-
rial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of
The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

WLUR

almost

arealcoﬂege
radio station

I was surprised to hear a song by
Less Than lake on WLUR Monday
morning. l was even more surprised
when a punk cover of the “Cheers”
theme followed it, and lwas shocked
when a ska cover followed that.

Brick Row
gavii Balsley ’99

.,.-.53,

  

I nearly cried, l was so happy.

i have been a fan of college radio
sincelwasafreshmaninhighschool.
I enjoy listening to different styles
of music, and college radio has al-
ways been the place to find some-
thing different. WRCT (Carnegie
Mellon University) and WPTS (Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh), whose
playlists ranged from classical to
punk to ska to Crazy Sid’s Scream-
ing Accordion Death Metal, pro-
vided me with a badly needed alter-
native to the dreary world of classic
rock and pop radio.

So I was excited when I found
that WLUR isstarting to sound more
like what i had heard at home. Like
WRCT and WPTS, WLUR seems
to be incorporating more variety
into its playlist. Their Fall term
broadcast schedule includes a few
ska shows, and l have been told that
their required playlist includes a
number of modern, aggressive
bands.

The injection of ska and punk
intoWLUR’splaylist does notplease
me as much as the transition to play-

ing lesser-known styles of music by
lesser-known bands.

It is important for college radio sta-
tions to play this music because they
are the few who can get away with it.
Other stations depend on advertising
revenue and must play their most popu-
lar songs in order to attract a wide
audience. Even commercial stations
which promote themselves as being
different or “alternative” are just pop
stations in disguise. Only independent
stations can offer a true alternative
from mainstream radio.

College radio stations should take
advantage of their independence, at
least for the sake of variety, if not to
promote talent, creativity and artistry.
Independent stations provide opportu-
nity: they offer their listeners an oppor-
tunity to hear bands they have never
heard before, and they give lesser-
known groups the opportunity to be
heard. it is important forthem to fulﬁll
this role.

But few students in Lexington can
tune into classic rock and mainstream
stations. So WLUR should play those
styles as well. But they should not
sacrifice all of a progressive playlist for
songs which students may better rec-
ognize. As acollege station, they should
continue to provide an alternative.

What does this mean for WLUR? I
hope that the station will continue to
incorporate less mainstream music into
its playlist. I have enjoyed the move to
different kinds of music, and I hope
that the trend will continue.

With any luck, l’ll get to cry every
Monday morning.

  
 

‘ mbmﬂk
some To LOVE

DENNIS THE DRUNK

     

THOSE says! Tnzru.
NEVER 9: AN ADULT

 

[my math skills aren’t C

 
 
  

Women of your dreams
may only be an hour away

Well, Homecoming Weekend has come and
gone, and, amazingly, the sky didn’t fall and the
earth didn’t stop spinning on its axis. 1 mean,
these things should have happened. After all, a
girl from a road school was nominated to be our

 

Eric Swensen ’98

Homecoming Queen.

So let’s clear up a few inaccuracies printed in
last week’s hysterical (and I don’t mean funny)
Phi editorial. First of all, there are not an
adequate number of women on the Washington
and Lee campus. Last time I checked, men make
up 59 percent of the W&L student body. Now,

Then there’s the term “road cheese.” It
always makes me laugh to hear women who
would be mortally offended by such terms as
“honey,” “babe” or “chick” refer to other
women as “road cheese.” it’s always nice to
see such solidarity among the women of the
world.

Do intelligent women intimidate us?
No. Amazingly, some intelligent women
actually reside at places besides W&L. If
you took the time to actually talk to some
road school women, you might find that
out. Of course, I realize it’s much easier
and safer to cling to stereotypes, like most
intelligent women do.

Road school women have always been
and will continue to be an integral part of
the W&Lcommunity. Without them, plenty

very‘ goodfbut I think i
that means that even if
every W&L guy wanted
to date a W&L woman,
there aren’t enough of
them to go around.
Then, of course,
there’sthetime—honored

I, for one, have been
rejected by plenty of
road school women
over the last three
years.

of fine young gentlemen,
based on sheer numbers,
would go dateless. if road
school women are a part of
the community, why can’t
we nominate them to be
Homecoming Queen?
Besides, it’s up to the

stereotype that every

road school girl wants to hook up. Not so. I, for
one, have been rejected by plenty of road school
women over the last three years. Besides, if you
think that only road school women want to hook
up, you’re wrong. Haven’t you heard of “the
walk of shame?” Everyone either knows some-
one who’s done it or done it themselves. Early
risers on Saturday and Sunday are usually wit-
ness to a host of W&L students stumbling out of
fraternity houses, apartments or dorm rooms
clad in wrinkled clothes and frazzled hair, smell-
ing like the previous night’s party. l’ve got news
for you. They weren’t sleeping on the couch.

9 ’ nominating groups to de-
cide who they’ll nomi-
nate. Most fraternities tend to nominate a

steady girlfriend of a senior in the house,
road school or not.

I have nothing against W&L women. I
took one to Homecoming. Personally, I
think if women here don’t like the avail-
able pool of W&L men, they can always
road trip themselves. l’ve heard Pi Beta
Phi is having a mixer with Hampden—
Sydney. The person of your dreams may
not be anywhere on this campus, but he or
she could be an hour’s drive away. Go out
and find them. And stop complaining.

Old South not something to be glorified

lam a white female. Members of my father’s family
fought for the Confederacy. l have lived the majority of
my life in the South, but I certainly don’t have “Old
Fashioned Southern Pride.”

Don’t get me wrong. l love the South. I think we’re
living in some ofthe most beautiful parts ofthis country.
I’m excited that places such as Atlanta, Charlotte,
Columbia, Houston, and Dallas are thriving cities, add-

My View
Rebecca Curry ’O0

 

ing to the economy and strength ofthis country. lfl live
in the South for my entire life, I wouldn’t cry.

Yet, as i look around W&L, gazing upon all the
Confederate flags and watching Civil War reenact-
ments, I begin to wonder why anyone would glorify
such a sad part of the South’s history.

The Old South had no really advanced technology or
industry; it survived on its cotton and tobacco. Most
people lived meager existences; the Rhet Butlers and

Scarlet O’Haras only constituted a small percentage ofthe
South’s population. During this time, wealthy people
owned human beings and treated them like livestock
simply because they were black. Women were considered
a step above property, as long as they were white and had
family money. To preserve this glorious time, the South
seceeded from the Union, splitting this country in pieces
for four years. Southern ﬁghters had passion, but no
resources to fulfill their desires. Thank God.

As a Southerner, l have no desire to see the old South
“rise again,” and it kills me to see people of our genera-
tion, who are from good families and are well educated,
wanting to celebrate such a dismal past. it would be the
equivalent of having students expressing German pride,
saying, “sieg heil,” waving swastika flags, and reenacting
the goosestep.

Which brings me to another point: most people would
be greatly offended ifa Nazi ﬂagwas hanging in someone’s
room. Yet, if one person on this campus has a problem
with the Confederate flag, he or she becomes an outcast.
No matter how people may cherish that battle flag, it will
always be a symbol of racism in this country, and I know

that many students here, both white and black, are deeply
distressed to constantly see it.

Even more important though, glorifying that flag,
parading in Confederate uniforms and longing for the old
South,willalways representasplitinthis nation. Hadthe
South won, the home that every American knows would
not exist. Our unity keeps this country strong, and it
offends me when anyone would desire to break that bond.

I can imagine that, if Robert E. Lee were alive today,
he would be greatly distressed to see W&L students
glorifying the old South. it broke his heart to see the
United States divided in two, but he could not fight
against his own home and family. Yet, when the war

' ended, Lee devoted the rest of his life to establishing a

school which would educate Southern men, helping to
rebuild a war-torn country and insuring that they would
learn from the past and never relive it.

To those who find happiness in glorifying the old
South, ask yourself why. What are you really saying?
Who are you offending? And how would Robert E. Lee,
the essence of our beloved Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, respond? it is time to move on.

the  Mn.

Illi "?(e§telrs°to° thVe"‘ed?.to?:

Letters to the editor can be e—mailed to phi@w|u.edu, deposited outside room 208 in the
University Center or left ir our mailbox located across from the Dean of Fun in the University Center. Letters should be limited to five hundred
words. Letters may be edited prior to publication. (We’re editors. We can't help ourselves.) Anonymous letters will be published upon
approval of the Executive Editors. if you have any questions, please feel free to contact us at 462-4060.

 

As students head toward midterms they hope for one thing 

 

  
 

       
 

   

 

 

  0 t ‘
l: ‘ ee::.,*.   
V ‘ANDREA Ev;/ING ihéllli Idam, l nlotonlly left the prolfizlssor a notei but I alzo
jmA_s;soaA7-15 EDITOR ca e to exp ain t e situation. e reaction receive g
PAGE 8 OCTOBER 13, 1997 ext week is mldtormo during the phone call was basically‘ «Andrea, Chili.” TIPS 
B l h h lo d l - h h ll h Rather than listening to my paper be torn to shreds, he
, N ihlcliooghvbsy (elixir C:/le(l_l::arvtl:(tl ptroefoassotrseo Stress calmly reassured me that everything was okay.  
 Q lectures are going I have no problem with ll suggestfthe tiolllolyvinlg sillresé
" y y _ Th l re ievers: a ree- u ar in e 0-
on all day; Domestic Violence as eifairgeffende :1: lilsﬁgﬁltienrg op’ oi naked yoga oh the Coioh_ mg 1
a Social Movement: A Historical to actually take them. I eeemiwim 3”‘ ”l:‘de'l What Couhld i"°relrel‘”““g TN
   o Moo voodoo
wenicomeso e ~, ,
9 9 7:30 p.m. a series oflectures actual exam, whatever I g exeéetlhsese f t 1, (10115 Ifﬁemblmg 30Ur if
- « - - or sources 0 s ress re levers ,.
entitled 011151 Vl0l€nC€ and D5‘ just spent like a mlnlon W ' hut 8 Bee mi ht be ames of in the tail on 5-
hours learning seems to . . g g P _
stroction in Northen Auditorium disappear. I can go into a l ' e the Professor a”.d "mal bummg of Z) Deca itate all your
- textb k lth kl o~ ball P
9 Tuesday 0 noon hang we knowing every word b t Oho Sid b hm dadge rise ll stuﬂéd anirnals '
in a reading, but when l a S S 0” e an e O” O a I " ,
out with the W&L Employees‘ :1(§)[r)‘l:)r/ntglrtril tr)r;2rit[e(i;itzillirll gseem Hm ioa El“ lEh+ :§‘;‘rj;Il‘:SSS1‘:/‘VT:/Tllé Eeﬁezejtiﬁorigﬁéers 3 Male I-iiuai Saci-i_ 1;
T Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Accordin ' so...  Or, 10 in_ . ~ .
gto the Surgeon or E” :: oi iii 3' 3 ﬁoes to Cyrus
. - - "'"“°*°' I guess the way to solve the ‘
 Lunch‘ Room 113’ University Sfeﬁiigligaigleenggflgiifaaggn ""'°"——"H4———-—°‘--~—31bW'l' problem is to add another I2 hours lvlcfbrrnick.
Center . You will go the Fe” is one of the major signs W' M Neil }FheVer}hdaiy(ir!Ne1l’d0 Someltahinlel 4) Far Out and shied h
Choral Concert at 8 p.m. in Lenfest  O at 4 P-m- eigiggelrﬁsetreee eeueed by ~f1v.dlgadl Mu law Coleirg iieeiunalignivlagleeogilhagaizrti if €VeI.y third page of l‘
the women's soocer team plays Lynchburg (go watch them kick butt) 6 To Combat this  JWJMJT U try and get more down time. _
. . bl lb l~ Just keep screaming to YOU-V RU-3S131'1 text‘
 0 Reading Days start (these are not actually for reading, PEG 13”}: 9 “We “list ;_°__n1;g;A_:_-3-, yourself. ll; l GET THROUGH k
. s ou ave a man a o '".'.-:-..-:m.’:.'.'-.':"' ' boo
so get out of town) 9 Ocxning Soon 9 Karaoke in GHQ 8- 12 nap time for all student? w THIS WEEK, 1 WILL E91 BE 1' l,
p.m. Friday 9 10:30 a.m. Saturday "Evolution" seminar in Lee Chapel 0 and Professors fmm 1'2 STRESSED I L BE CALM’ 5) Chrnb to the top
p.m., like the ones we had I WILL NOT RAMBLE ABOUT of \xéiShin Han
Dedication of the Science Center 12:30 p.m. Saturday (it finally gets a in kihderganeo MY PROBLEMS. l MIGHT BE gton
name) . garui-day highr go jam at Fiii with their D__i_ Q You know you need a break when your professors TAKEN To THE ROCKBRIDGE and ‘play?’ sniper
MENTAL HEALTH CLINIC, BUT I WILL SUR-
tell you to cool down. (True story.) Wednesday I turned V“/Em SEREMTY Nowlll 
in a paper five minutes late, and being the perfectionist  
A Wiggg EEFMZIE ll12MEoz2Mi!\fé- FIZIDM kl léitr l ﬁlé ' l (Alexi uoﬁlé i7A‘7T ;
t- we PM/T‘ niiia‘ M‘l were. 9 AL?-eAv”l
. . Trrizowixl U? 
eemezvieee i/M o
NAME, 99¢/tI?ED
I rte NEEDED  D ,
W6 A LEN: 0Ui9ii>E
Wiueou wkwee, mo »
Nvw rliv; rite “i$l\léi/E?
IN Wt rooui/we ' 9
C/»A?~. l‘M ET‘0l\l
0” X ’ l‘ M v" 1
W"’filEIi’-/
7
I
PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING l

We’re looking for people who

  look at this glass and say: OVER ONE MILLION .
“There’s gotta be other OF THE BEST

glasses of water.”   MINDS IN AMERICA

HAVE ALREADY "

CHOSEN THE BEST .

R RETIREMENT SYSTEM.

 

‘I
TIAA'  .
hen it eemes to plamm_lg_a eemfert offers an impressive range of ways to help you e
eblle future’ ever 1'8 mime“ of create a comfortable and secure tomorrow.
Amenea 5 best aed enghteet eeem 0“ From the guarantees of TIAA’s top-rated l
TI/'\A'CREF‘ Vlvlth $190 bllllen m assets’ Traditional Annuity** to the additional growth ‘‘
we re the world 5 largest rememem eem' opportunities ofour variable investment ac- ’«
. , .
paI_1y’thenat'en 5 leader 1” eustemer . counts, you'll find the ﬂexibility and diversity
satisfaction, and the overwhelming choice you need to help you moot your long_term , e
W d I bl f A d C ltl ff C nt ff P f l l Ed pfpjeople in education, research and related goals. And tho)/.re all backed by some oftho
l e nee peop e capa e o n ersen onsu ingo ers ‘e e or lro essionla ’ u'cal- ie s. most knowledgeable investment managers in ~
going beyond ha|f—full or half- you the chance to work in a . tion in St. Charles, Illinois, is Just The reason? For nearly 80 years, the mdust
empty thinking. People who see variety of projects-with clients in one measure of our commit- TiAA_CREF has imr d d . t iii em W‘ < _
subleties. Who are quite frankly a wide range of industries. ment. We train you for a career— _ _ '0 uee 1n e g i T0 learn m0f€ about tl1€ W0Tld S
bored by easy answers and off- We are the leader in helping not just a job. solutlons to A_me“Ca s lonf-Warm Plalmmg premier retirement Organization, speak to one of
the)-shelf sollutions. t H orgréltnizlaiﬁioris lahpplybinformation talilﬁgygggséoelrson to/e’fre weds. Wegioneeredtplonable bene(fj'iis.l d our expert Consultants at l 800 84247-/6 (8 1
eopew o are cons an y ec noo o eir usmess . e in o emvente t evaria eannuity an ie pe _ .
challenging their own thinking advantage. Every hour of every person with an unquenchable popularize the Very Concept Ofstock a.m. 1 l p.m. ET). Or better still, speak to one
and are thirsty for new ideas and business day, we implement a desire for challenge and . . f t. I . I of Your °0lleagues- Fmd Out Why when It
knowledge. solution to help one of our more professional growth? 'nVe5t'"t‘3’r Odr re ‘]r_e]':eA"t(:l’RaI‘:l3'“E>‘ _ comes to planning for tomorrow, great minds
You'll have a degree from a than 5,000 clients worldwide. If so, come talk to us. And find 0 3)’: - ‘ ‘ S expense think aljke_
top school. Getting a job won't What makes that possible is out more about a career with /‘ll
really be an issue. The question the quality of our people. And the Andersen Consulting.
is: which job? Which industry? quality of our training. We're Visit us on the Internet at www_tiaa-cref_0rg
You don't want to get locked known for both. l l
into one area and then discover Because business and A T1 .
three to five years from now that technology are everchanging, we  CREF Ensuring the future 3
you don't like it. By then you've see training as a continuing C forthose who Sha o it_.<m
invested too much, process. And our $123-million  p
if.";ljﬁ"lliiifﬂlf‘3ﬁ|"ji':i:|;:""l\‘l“::f"“ﬂ:f"l""“"’ *Based on a survey conducted in 1995 by an independent organization in \\hich 96% of respondents expressed overall satisfaction
‘  ‘  ' with TIAA-CREF.
- - - ' ° - **TlAA is one of only a handful of companies that currently hold the highest marks from the nation's leadino independent rationg
Please loln us for our lnforrnatugn Sesslonl/receptlon on agencies for stablity. sound investments. clcaiins-paying ability. and overall financial strength: A++ (Superiorle /\.M. Best Co.: AAA. e
OCtOb€I'  from  "  In  University Center! Duff & Phelps: Aaa_ Moody's Investors Service: AAA. Standard and l’oor's. TlAA's guarantees are backed by its claims—paying
. . . k 1 N b 3 d ability. These ratings of TIAA as an insurance company do not apply to CREF. CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF
Flrst round lntervlews ta e P ace on Campus on Oven‘ er r - Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. For more complete information. including charges and expenses. call I 800 842-2733.

extension 550‘). for 21 prospcctiis Rciid the prospcciiis C1lIL‘lllll_\ bctorc you iiivcst or send lll0liL‘\.

 

