One worked in an office, one
worked with mules. Two
students tell two very

Women ’s soccer goes
to 6-0 as Karen Treese

different stories about their
summer jobs. '

FEATURES

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 2

SPORTS

extends her "all-time
W&L goal scoring lead.

@ PAGE4 @

ﬂing -

Sorority housing
location decided

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
NEWS EDITOR

There’s no place like home.

No one knows this better than
Washington and Lee’s sororities,
which are now one step closer to ﬁ-
nally having a place to call their own.

At a meeting of Dean of Students
David Howison, Dean Leroy “Buddy”

A Atkins, Panhellenic Council members

and sorority presidents Wednesday, a
much-anticipated consensus was
reached on the type of sorority houses
the university will build and where
they will be constructed.

But the Board of Trustees still
needs to consider the resolution at
their meeting in early November.

The actual date for contruction has
not yet been set. “We still need to
decided on an architect and other

plans,” Panhellenic Housing Chair-,

man Katherine McAlpine said. “I see
the best case scenario being 1999.”
“I am confident that the Board will
approve it,” Panhellenic Council
President Laurence Phillips said. “But

' there are no guarantees.”

If the resolution is passed, the uni-
versity will build five sorority houses
in the Woods Creek Ravine area,
southwest of the Footbridge, near th
tennis courts. - I

“The central issue in making the
decision was one of equity,” Howison
said. “W&L has fine fraternity
houses, and now the time has come
for women to have comparable hous-

77

mg.

“The property has some nice, in-
teresting terrain because it’ s wooded,”
Howison said. “And it is above the
ﬂood plane.”

The Montessori Center for Chil-
dren lies at the end of the property,
but the plans will not affect the school,-
Howison said.

“It’s a beautiful piece of property,”
Phillips said. “It is a very convenient
and safe location because it is close

C

A‘ shares words of wisdom

' on getting and keeping a

to campus. I encourage everyone to
go and check it out.”

Each house would have an occu-
pancy of 20 (four single and eight
double rooms), a housemother’s suite,
a dining/chapter room to accommo-
date 80 or more and a lounge area for
all-purpose use such as rush, recep-
tions, leisure and study. Exterior pa-
tios and recreation spaces would be
integrated into the house sites. Each
house would have a full kitchen. Each
sorority will decide whether they will
hire a cook.

“Nothing like this has happened for
W&L women thus far,” Phillips said.
“Women will ﬁnally have a physical
presence on campus.”

“This is a very exciting announce-
ment,” Panhellenic Council Sara
McCrone said. .

“Before there was talk of having
some sort of communal housing, but
the decision for each sorority to have
its own house and its own kitchen
seems to be the right one for every
sorority.”

Sorority members were given sur-
veys and invited to voice their opin-
ions in seminars about sorority hous-
ing, McCrone said. “This resolution
matches what women on this campus
want.” — R
“The fact that the university has
made this a high priority represents a
big victory for sororities and women
in general,” Panhellenic delegate
Christina Shumate said.

If more chapters are added, the
university will accommodate them,
Howison said.

“If a sixth sorority is added, the
university will provide comparable
housing for that sorority,” Howison
said.

“We might see a decrease in the
number of girls who pledge sororities
and might not be able to support an-
other chapter anyway,” Shumate said.
“The dues will rise to an amount com-

East Lex, Sa|erno’s victims of bridge

and upgraded.” He does not know who will be paying for
these “upgrades” or how much they will cost.

The gas pumps will also have to berelocated. Besides
the fact that VDOT plans to place guardrails where the
pumps are now, Bowen recently discovered that the pumps
are on state land. “The place I get gas from owns the
pumps,” Bowen said. “I guess they’ll have to pick up the
tab since the pumps are on state property.” The pumps
will probably be moved to what is now an undeveloped,

BY HILLARY COOMBS

MANAGING EDITOR

nly two-tenths of a mile and three lanes of as
phalt separate the East Lexington Store and
Salemo’s, but their futures are miles apart.
After the Commonwealth Transportation Board’s ap-
proval of the $8.7 million East Lexington bridge project
recenty, both businesses will have to go with the winds of
change.
East Lex must build a new entrance, but will remain at

. its current location. Salemo’s_must move. The owners still

don’t know where it will go. ’

They do have a common past, though. Both propri-
etors leamed at a Feb. 13 public hearing at the National
Guard Armory, sponsored by the Virginia Department of
Transportation, that their businesses would be affected by
the project.

“I had no (initial) input at all,” Jim Bowen, owner of

East Lex, said. “No one ever came by to talk to me. I fi-
nally went to the meeting in February after a couple of
friends who had some knowledge of the situation and the
latest plans told me access to my property would be cut
off.”

Bowen did not attend earlier meetings because “The
original plans were presented as not having an effect on
the store.”

In fact, the additional lanes will not encroach on
Bowen’s property or limit access to East Lex. The prob-
lem isn’t the lanes; it’ s the guardrails. They will run through
the space in front of the store where the gas pumps are
now located, effectively cutting off the current entrance.

Eventually, Bowen and VDOT worked out a new route
to his convenience store, via state Route 631. “The main
effect it will have will be on the driveway usage and ac-
cess to the property,” Bowen said. “The (new) entrance 
will be where the parking is now. It will have to be paved

Alumnus shares perspectives

wooded area behind the store.

Bowen is trying to concentrate on the positive aspects

of his forced exterior redecorating.

“It may be safer to get in and out,” he said. “If it
helps smooth out traffic flow, then it won’t have that

grave an effect.”

He does not know, however, what the long-terrn effect

of the rerouting will be on his business.

The owner’s of Salemo’s do. The news the Graziano
family eventually received about the effect of the bridge
project was that they would have to move their business.

The experience has been anything but positive.

“We have no idea what will happen to us,” Carol
Graziano said. “We thought we were going to be taken
care of, but VDOT won’t even talk to us.”

After learning that the property on which their busi-

on honor, honesty in business

BY GEORGE URBAN
STAFF WRITER
Richard Duchossois ’44, legend of
private industry and benefactor of
Washington and Lee’s Duchossois
Tennis Center, returned to Lexington
on Thursday. He met with several stu-
dents at an afternoon reception, shar-
ing insights on family business, inter-
national business and regulation of
private industry. After dining at the
Lee House, Duchossois gave a talk at
the Commerce School on “Doing
Business Honorably.”
Praising the culture of honor at
W&L, Duchossois advised students,
“Never compromise your integrity.

Your honor is the most valued pos-
session you can have.”
He added that once honor is lost, it

is impossible to regain.

“Honor is a verb — it is something
you do,” Duchossois told the audi-
ence. In the course of time, not doing
the right thing will cost you success
in the business world, he said. “You
may get away with something once
or twice, but eventually it will catch
up to you.”

Duchossois has developed a cul-
ture strongly based on honor in his
company, Duchossois Industries. He
attributes much of his corporation’s
success to this way of life.

“You have to have the confidence of
your customers and run a good busi-
ness, too.”

Running a good business is some-
thing Duchossois has excelled at, also.
Keeping the company private has al-
lowed him to look to the future, “add—
ing value to everything we do,” in-
stead of trying to pad the next
quarter’s figure to keep public share-
holders happy.

Duchossois’ success is deeply

rooted in his commitment to custom-
ers. He believes that nothing is impos-
sible and leads his team by example.

if) sag ALUM ma 5

ness stands would be acquired as part of the project, the
restaurant’s owners asked to be released from their lease
so they could move their business. Their landlord refused.

Salemo’s must now wait until the state acquires the
property and tenninates its lease before the business can
afford to relocate. They have heard that will be before the
end of 1997. The family does not yet know whether they’ll
receive any compensation for the trouble the new bridge
has caused them. They plan to relocate, but so far, the
uncertainty of their situation has prevented the Graziano’s
from securing a new lease. .

“We’re in the hands of VDOT,” Graziano said. “And
they really don’t care a bag of beans about us. To them,
we’re just a spot in their way.”

Homecoming date.

I PAGE 8

Monday
SEPTEMBER 29, 1997

parable to fraternity dues. Many
women now take advantage of the
present system which is relatively in-
expensive, but with the increase in
dues, we might see a decrease in girls
pledging sororities.”

However, Phillips believes that
sorority housing will spark an increase
in Greek women.

“Women will have a physical
meeting place to meet and be with
friends,” Phillips said. “I think this
will attract women tojoin sororities.”

Each sorority will select sopho-
mores and members from the 1998
pledge class to decideon particular
color schemes for the houses.

The sorority_ women livingin the
old Delta Tau Delta house was an ex-
periment with sorority housing that
has worked out tremendously well so
far, McCrone said.

“The women are definitely taking
advantage of the resources available
to them here,” Resident Assistant
Heather Cook said. “They love it here
and don’t want to leave.”

It has not yet been determined what
will happen to the house when soror-
ity houses are built, Phillips said. “I
hope that we can keep the house to be
an annex to the sorority houses,”
Phillips said. ‘‘It is a central place
where sororities can have parties.”

In contrast with fraternity houses,
the sorority houses would have no
“party room” basement area. Since
National Panhellenic/Sorority rules
prohibit alcohol in the houses, there
is no need for such a place, Phillips
said.

The Sorority House Corporations
would lease the sorority houses from
the university and be responsible for
hiring housemothers and managing
the kitchen operations. Room rates
would be set in accordance with Uni-
versity room rates. Throughout this

Q) SEE HOUSING PAGE 2

 

/“vi? ii .L—l-
Fi:>-Lr o

37 $5 .’75"’.:7
BT31-

I 433/ L0,’? '7
v. /00

new}:

(«L

Dyson
speaks at
Lee Chapel

BY JULIEANN ULIN

PAGE 2

STAFF WRITER

Freeman Dyson, the physicist who wrote this year’s
required freshman reading, “Inﬁnite in All Directions,”
is no stranger to the poverty that he seeks to correct.

His wife grew up in an East Gemian village whose
economy was destroyed by the fall of Communism. “I
have seen with my own eyes what happens to a village
when the economic basis of life collapses,” he said, at
his lecture Wednesday in Lee Chapel.

Dyson visited his wife’s childhood town a few weeks
ago, and said the village’s revival was the result of mod-
emization and low interest loans.

The lecture, which was broadcast by WLUR-FM and
Cable 2, centered around the reduction of poverty and
the overcrowding of cities through modern technology
such as solar energy, genetic engineering and the Internet.
Dyson praised Washington and Lee’s fall seminar on pov-
erty for promoting awareness of this worldwide crisis.
“My mission in what is leﬁ of my life is to put new tech-
nologies to work in the cause ofsocial justice,” he said.

“The international market devalues the work of the
village,” Dyson said._ “Without work, the younger and
more enterprising peoplemove out, leading to the de-
struction of the village economy and the resulting over-
crowding of the cities.”

“His contribution to science through his research in
theoretical physics ‘and to the contemporary life of the
mind is an unparalleled example of human accomplish-

ment,” Dean Laurent Boetsch said in the introduction.

Dyson’s solution to poverty incorporated the use of
the lntemet and the genetic engineering of trees capable
of hamessing solar energy as a means of enabling busi-
nesses and fanners in remote places to function as a part
of the global community, ending the global isolation of
poor countries and poor people.

At the close of his speech, Dyson turned to a message
of hope. “I see a hope that all the world will move far
and fast in the direction I have been describing. Let us all
help to push the world in that direction as hard as we can.
It does no harm to hope.” _

Dyson is a graduate of Winchester College, the
University of Cambridge and Cornell University. He
has been the recipient of 17 honorary degrees, includ-
ing ones from Princeton, Dartmouth and Oxford. He
is currently a professor emeritus at the Institute for
Advanced Study at Princeton University. Dyson also
aided with the development and design of the Orion
spaceship in 1956.

Phi lunchtime poll:

Freshmen

I1€WS

refelct

on first crazy month

BY DAN BIRDWHISTLE
—-————————— Smrr WRITER

To give the class of 2001 a chance
to shine, we at The Ring- Tum Phi ven-
tured out to ask some probing ques-
tions of this the first class of the new
millennium.

What is the strangest thing you

have done at W&L so far?
“I can’t say— I’m not allowed.”
-Geoffrey White

How was lunch?
It was wonderful! -
-Annabelle Wirth upon
exiting the D-Hall

What are you doing tonight?
“I dunno, why?”
-Martha Combrooks

What is the strangest thing you
have seen in the dorms so far?
“Becca got rolled in toliet paper last
night, and the other night, two guys
were spanking each other.”
-Emily Grandt

How is your chicken?
“A little burnt, but not bad.”
-Will Baker

How many upperclass guys have

hit on you thus far?
‘‘I have not been hit on by any- yet!”
-Carson Schroder (male)

Where were you last night at mid-
night?
“I was in Birdie and Tom’s room
eating Swedish ﬁsh.”
-Kathleen Moroney

How many upperclass guys have
hit on you thus far?
“I don’t wanna answer that in the
paper!” I
-Lacey Winford

Was she in your room eating
Swedish fish last night?

“Yeah, among other things.”
-Birdie

What do you think of the fresh-
men guys?
“Well, there are a few cute ones.
Dan Birdwhistell is our favorite.”
-Amy Hall upon conferring
with her friends over lunch

What is it like eating with Dave
Lehman, the coolest man in the
world?

“Well, it’s nice. It makes me feel
cool.”

-Etan Levine

Do you like the Lucky Charms

' in the D-hall?

“Yes, here is how I eat them.
First, you eat the little cheerio-
like thingies, then you eat the
marshmallows, cuz that’s the best
part.”

-Katie Harding, illustrating the
Lucky Charms eating process

fEHoRNsBY

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

the Town” (1990), “Harbor Light”
(1993) and “Hot House” (1995) have
sold over 8 million copies worldwide.
Homsby’s new album hits the record
stores this August.

He has also written Top Ten hits
with other artists, such as Huey Lewis
and the News and Don Henley.
Homsby was also a part-time mem-
ber of the Grateful Dead from Sept.
1990 to March 1992, performing over
100 concerts in America and Europe.
In 1996 Horsby was a part of the post-
Greatful Dead “Further Festival” tour.

Tickets go on sale in front of the
Co-op Wednesday for W&L students
for $10. Ticket sale for non-W&L
patrons start next Tuesday for $16.

SEPTEMBER29, 1997

 

PROGRAM FOCUSES ON THE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL

“Alcoholiday!,” an autobiographical comedy/drama performance by Andy Hill that fo-
cuses on alcohol addiction, will be presented on Sunday, Oct. 5, at 7 p.m. in the Keller
Theater of the Lenfest Center. ,

It is sponsored by the David Thompson Endowment Fund, which was established in
1996! by Thompson’s family to sponsor educational programming in relation to alcohol use
at W&L.

“Alcoholiday! Graduated, Unskilled, Unemployed: Confessions of a Party Animal” fo-
cuses on the progression of addiction to alcohol, which often begins with the choices and
issues facing college students today.

After the performance, Hill will answer questions and help create a workshop for those
who want to help students consider the choices to make about alcohol at W&L. Admission
to the performances is free.

PULITZER PRIZE WINNER W.S. MERWIN TO SPEAK

W.S. Merwin, who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1971 for “The Carrier of Ladders,” will give
a poetry reading at W&L on Wednesday, Oct. 8,-at 4 p.m. in the Leybum Library’s Northen
Auditorium. The reading is sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Program.

Merwin’s newest collections of poems are called “The Vixen” and “Flower and Hand:
Poems 1977-1983”, which reprints three earlier collections. His prose collection, “The Lost
Upland”, was named one of the 10 best books of 1994 by The New York Times.

W&L STUDENT RECEIVES SCHOLARSHIP

Senior Glenn F. Miller of Red Bank, N.J. has been selected to receive a $500 Paul B.
Slater National Competition Scholarship from the Sigma Phi Epsilon Educational Founda-
tion. Miller is one of fifteen National Competition Scholarship recipients for 1997.

STUDENT HEALTH SERVICE ENCOURAGES VACCINE

The Student Health Center will offer the inﬂuenza vaccine to all University students and
staff members. Weekly clinics will be held in the University Center Room 109 from 1 1 a.m.
to 1 p.m. Tuesdays, beginning Oct. 14 and concluding November 18. The vaccine is also
available daily at the Health Center located on the lower ﬂoor of Davis donnitory, between
noon and 1 p.m. and 6 to 7 p.m. There will be a charge of $5 for the vaccine.

BETA TO HOLD FOOSEBALL TOURNAMENT

Beta Theta Pi will hold a charity fooseball tournament to raise money for the Roger
Hazelwood Memorial Fund. Hazelwood died of a heart attack this summer. He was the
Beta’s cook for ﬁve years, and the brothers felt a strong attachment to him. Tickets are $25
for teams of two. For more information, contact Tom F allace at 462-5189.

—Compiled by John F idler

/

  N
s§‘§

 

  ,..sINsTANT CREDIT  

Guaranteed Credit cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No credit, No job, No parent-singer, No security deposit!
no credit * bad credit * no income?
Uuu Ban ﬂualifglo Heeelue

Tum [If the Illust lllidelg Used
Credit Cards In The UJor'_|d Today!

\

astercard

 

Wanil/ISA 69- MasterCard Credit Cards?

ORDER FORM  

YES!

I want Credit Cards immediately.

CZLJ/\RAl\lTEE[) APPRGVAL
CRA, Po Box 1 6662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

I



Tired of Being Turned Down?

' , GUARANTEED $10,000 IN CREDIT

  

n" ...;;.i=.;=.n~z
.: umvensarv

 

1;

ii

Drunk hook-ups:

YOU may wakeﬂe

up with more
than just a 9
hang-over Q

BY GINGER PHILLIPS
——-——-——— STAFF Wizniai
It’s something we don’t like to talk
about. It’s something we don’t
even like to think about. But the fact
is that sexually transmitted diseases
are rapidly spreading throughout col-
lege campuses across the nation-
even here at Washington and Lee.

The American Social Health As-
sociation reports that two—thirds of
new STD cases in the United States
each year affect people under the age
of 25. This is a scary number and a
trend which we must combat.

“Many people hear stories about
others with STDs, but they never think it
could happen to them until it does,” said a
ﬁeshman who declined to be named.

There are many misconceptions
about the spreading of STDs, so an
understanding about how

sex,” according to Dr. Jane Horton of
the SHC.

Good communication between part-
ners is always important. “A person nwds
to clearly think out their personal values
ahead of time,” Kaufman advises.

Clear thinking can prevent hasty
and possibly regrettable decisions.
Kaufman also stresses that drinking
“clouds judgement and makes good
decisions more difficult.”

Fumbling around in a drunken
haze can also impair the ability to ef-
fectively use protection. Although
students may believe they know how
to use a condom, they often do not
know how to use it correctly. A con-
dom must be put on and removed cor-
rectly, remain in place during inter-
course and not break or tear in order to
be effective. Even with the right tech-

nique, some infections

sexual diseases are trans-
mitted is very important.
STDs are transmitted
when body ﬂuids mix
through direct contact
with an infected area. You
can contract an STD with-
out having intercourse,

More important
than GMAT:

The most popular
STD test at the

Student Health.

Center is for HIV.

can pass through micro-
scopic openings in the
condom.

STDs at W&L The
most prevalent STDs at
W&L are HPV, herpes,
chlamydia and HBV.
HPV, or Human

and you will not always be able to tell
if your partner is infected. Symptoms are
either not visible or do not occur at all.

THE INVINCIBILITY MYTH
“Many college students have a feel-
ing of invincibility which leads them
to‘ believe that they could never be in-
fected,” says J an Kaufman, Student
Health Center (SHC) Coordinator.

Many W&L students believe that
because other W&L students are gen-
erally from good families, the risk of
contracting an STD from another stu-
dent is low. This is another myth that
students must disregard; anyone can
be infected with an STD.

While not all STDs are curable, all
of them are preventable. You’ve al-
ways heard that not having sex is the
only sure prevention, and as blasé as
that may sound, it’s true. “There is no
such thing as safe sex, but there is safer

Papillomavirus, is the most common STD
on college campuses nationwide.

HPV has many different strains,
sometimes resulting in genital warts and
cell changes that can lead to cancer.
Warts are often hard to spot. They are
either invisible to the naked eye or lo-
cated in places that cannot be seen —
so just because the symptoms aren’t ob-
vious doesn’t mean that the disease is
not there. HPV is treatable, but the body
must rely on its own immune system
to ﬁght the virus. Once infected, a per-
son is infected for life.

Another incurable virus is herpes,
characterized by either sores in the
oral or genital area. A person infected
with herpes can also be symptom free,
and the first outbreak is usually more
severe than subsequent outbreaks.
Treatment is available for this STD.

Chlamydia is a bacterial infection

which is six times more common than
genital herpes and 40 times more com-
mon than syphilis. Symptoms include
a burning sensation during urination,
pain during intercourse and vaginal
and penal discharge. However, over
75 percent of women and 25 percent
of men have no symptoms of this dis-
ease. Chlamydia is curable with spe-
cial antibiotic treatments.

One in 20 Americans has been diag-
nosed with HBV, or the Hepatitis B Vi-
rus, which is often transmitted through
sexual intercourse. There is a vaccination
for the prevention of HBV, and it can be
administered in the SHC.

Despite the fact that HPV, herpes,
chlamydia and HBV are the most com-
mon STDs at W&L, the most testing at
the SHC is for HIV, or human immuno-
deﬁciency virus, which causes AIDS.

Dr. Horton believes one reason for
the high risk of STDs among college
students is serial monogamy. Stu-
dents practice monogamy while in a
relationship but have multiple relation-
ships and multiple sexual partners in a
relatively short period of time.

She also says that many students

SEPTEMBER 29, 1997

under the inﬂuence of alcohol engage
in behaviors which they might not
normally do. “Students don’t always
think about safety, as their judgement
is being impaired by alcohol.”
Kaufman thinks that a lack of un-
derstanding of and communication
about STDs has contributed to a greater
number of cases. Often students are un-
comfortable talking about
STDs. Students may fear
rejection ﬁom revealing an
intimate part of themselves
by discussing their sexual
history with a new partner.
However, there is evi-
dence to support the fact
that W&L students are
practicing safer sex.
W&L’s results in the
Harvard Alcohol Survey
indicate there has been a
decrease in the last three
years of students who en-
gage in unplanned sexual
activity and who do not
use protection. This is par-
tially due to the fact that students are
becoming more informed about HIV and

crash coursei
Brochures in

the University
Center inform
you about STDs.

other infections and know more about
safer sex practioes than they did in the past.
SOLUTIONS So what should you
do if you think you might have a sexu-
ally transmitted disease? Talk to a doc-
tor. Don’t feel embarrassed about seek-
ing counseling or being tested. If you
are infected, then getting tested will
only help you to receive treatment car-
i lier. If not, then testing
will give you a much-
needed sense of relief.
Visits to the SHC are
strictly conﬁdential, and
parents will not be noti-
ﬂed of your visit or test
results. Students may
discuss testing and treat-
ment options with a doc-
tor. The SHC is open 24
hours a day, 7 days a
week, and appointments
can be made by phone.
It’s not necessary to re-
veal the reason for the ap-
pointment. Just tell the
nurse you would like to
have a “personal talk” with the doctor.
An STD doesn’t effect a student’s

status at W&L. The University Policy
on AIDS states that HIV-positive stu-
dents “will not be excluded from en-
rollment or employment or restricted
in their access to University facilities.”

The SHC and various organizations
offer many resources relating to STDs.
Condoms may be obtained for 25 cents
from machines in the student laundry
rooms or free from the SHC.

Students can find pamphlets on
STDs and other sexual concerns near
the counseling offices in the University
Center. LIFE conducts programs to
educate students on sexuality. Univer-
sity counseling, Peer Counselors, dorm
counselors and Student Athlete Men-
tors are available for counseling.

The risks of sexual activity are very
high. Having safe sex doesn’t neces-
sarily mean having no sex, but stu-
dents must learn to be responsible.
There's a lot more at stake here than
failing a test or missing a party.

Kaufman has this advice: “Stu-
dents need to think about what it is
that they want from a relationship, and
they must communicate, which means
listening as well as talking.”

here’s something to be said for

planning ahead and meticu-
lously applying for several summer
internships to increase your odds of
unearthing the perfect opportunity.
I wish I could say I was that
organized.Instead, I sauntered into
the Career Development and Place-
ment Office last January expecting the
perfect internship to land at my feet
with minimal effort on my part. To
my dismay, the receptionist pointed
me in the direction of the library.

I riﬂed through book after book
before I realized that while many
internships were available, not many
ﬁt my three requirements: money, real
work and a Philadelphia-area location.

The vast majority of internships
offer students the opportunity to im-
prove communication skills (while on
the phone with secretaries of big
shots), to become more worldly (while
sending international faxes) and ex-
perience corporate meetings (while
pouring coffee). To show their ap-
preciation for months of drudgery,
they offer a warm handshake and the
same letter of recommendation
they’ve used for the last 10 interns.

I wasn’t interested in the vast
majority of internships. Instead, the
CDPO helped coordinate an alumni-
sponsored internship in the Global
Ventures Department of Covance Inc.,
a contract research organization for
pharmaceutical and biotech industries.

Patrick Durbin, my internship di-
rector, told me he expected big things
from the start. In his mind, I wasn’t
a peon, but a professional.

My first week was divided be-
tween meeting inﬂuential co-work-
ers and department heads and attend-
ing training sessions. Patrick, con-
cerned that I might be intimidated
working with so many men, arranged

a lunch and mentorship with Diana
Faillace, a senior attorney for
Covance and one of few women in
senior management.

Exciting and challenging
projects began the following week
and lasted the surrirner. Covance re-
cently signed an agreement with the
Chinese government to teach inter-
national clinical, laboratory and
manufacturing standards to state-
owned facilities. Covance hired me
to research the Chinese pharmaceu-
tical industry and then summarize
the infonnation in an hour-long in-
temal presentation about Covance’s
prospects in China.

I quickly established a rapport
with the Corporate Marketing De-
partment. Patrick encouraged me
to pursue my interests. I developed
an internal database of important
contacts in the health-care industry
for Covance, completed a survey
and analysis of Covance’s perfor-
mance at the annual Drug Informa-
tion Association trade-show and re-
searched and wrote a bi-monthly
Product Pipeline bulletin designed
to support sales teams.

Other projects included reassign-
ing and expanding client billing
numbers, assisting on the Japan
1998 budget projection and 1997
budget report and researching infor-
mation for ConnectNet, the
Covance newsletter.

The uphill battle I fought to find
a well-paid, intellectually stimulat-
ing internship was well worth it.
Not only did I have an incredible
time working for Covance, but they
have tentatively offered me a job
upon graduation. So while my
peers are tearing out their hair look-
ing for jobs, I can relax and enjoy
my senior year.

Melody Andreola,
with sponsor Jim
Utterback, '77.

‘ Vaness¢iHal1, m
the wilderness

Two
seniors
tell us
how they
spent the V
summer

very time I mention my sum-

mer job as a trail worker to a
W&L student, I am rewarded with
a very strange look — a look which
combines perplexity, a bit of awe
and a deep concern for my mental
health. I have been stationed for the
last four summers at the Big Prairie
Ranger Station ~— a small cluster of
old cabins in the Bob Marshall Wil-
derness in Montana.

Most summer jobs include going
home at night and working five-day
weeks. Not mine. It’s a 33-mile
hike on foot to the nearest road. It’s

. very difficult to leave on weekends,

seeing as it would consist ofa 66-
mile hike on foot. I did it. Once.

My job includes working with
primitive tools (all machine-oper-
ated equipment is banned from the
wilderness, including chain saws
and motor vehicles) such as cross-
cuts, axes, polaskis, shovels,
picomatics, etc., maintaining trails,
and doing construction as needed -
puncheons, turnpikes, waterbars,
etc. Lots of hiking, digging, saw-
ing, and chopping. But it’s the du-
ties left out of the job description
that I will always remember.

I have developed a strong affec-
tion for mules in the past four years.
With lots of heavy equipment for
trail work, we depend on mules and
horses for riding and packing our
supplies.

The first time I saw a mule, I
burst out laughing. Mules are pretty
funny looking creatures with big
floppy lips, large ears, and a bray
halfway between that of a horse and
a donkey. Each has a very strong,
distinct personality of its own.
One little adventure with Bertha
(my all—time favorite mule) sticks
out in my memory.

After unloading Bertha at the end
of a hitch, I led her to the pasture to
join her four-legged friends and
graze to her heart’s content. Tired,
peaceful, and absorbed in the spec-
tacular scenery around me, I
rounded the last comer before the
corral’s gate and was brought out of
my reverie as Bertha rapidly pulled
back and stood at attention. Next to
the gate was the biggest black bear I
have ever seen.

The bear was minding its own
business, rooting around for grubs
. '1 berries, so I wasn’t really wor-
ried. Black bears are shy and gen-
erally not aggressive to humans. As
I stood there admiring the bear’s
size, I noticed some very odd, heavy
breathing next to my ear. Turning
around, I saw Bertha’s whole body
trembling, her ears standing up and
her chest vibrating with short, jerky
breaths. She was hyperventilating
— too smart to move and trigger a
response from the bear, but almost
too frightened to breathe. I turned
Bertha right around and got her out
of there, slowly at ﬂrst, then more
quickly as we drew further away
from the bear.

While my job probably doesn’t
sound like much fun to most people,
during these past four summers, I’ve
learned to expect the unexpected,
live in primitive conditions, do hard
manual labor and truly enjoy the
challenges that my job affords.

While it may be some people’s
nightmare, spending three months
away from civilization with only my
fellow employees, our livestock and
the wilderness for company has be-
come my dream-come-true — a way
to temporarily visit a way of life
nearly extinct today and a part of
nature unspoiled by man.

STAFF WRIIER

nder the Route 60 overpass on Woods Creek is a
house once occupied by Chemistry Professor
Shillington. It’s now occupied by children.

The house is W&L property, and today the Montessori
school leases the property from the university. The school,
unique in its own right, has a unique relationship with W&L.

Montessori has occupied the house for three years, said
director Catherine Bodnar. Before that, it operated out of
local churches. Many of its 28 students are children of W&L
and Virginia Military Institute faculty, W&L law students
and university staff. Though the school is not exclusively
for these groups, it is convenient for them.

Montessori is indeed a school, Bodnar asserted, not a
day care facility. The students range in age from two-and-
a-halfto six.

“We respect children as capable learners,” Bodnar said.
It’s an “individual-oriented, child directed” school, she con-
tinued, where the teachers follow the leads of students who
are “hooked on learning.” Dr. Nancy Margand of the W&L
Psychology department is on Montessori’s school board, and
she said that even the toys in the school are “very educational.”

Montessori’s relationship with W&L goes even further.
In the past, psychology students in need of classroom ob-
servation or interaction have gone to the school to work.
Two W&L students currently work for pay at Montessori.
Margand said the psychology department’s involvement
with the school has decreased in recent semesters, but in-
terested students can still inquire with her or with Bodnar
for work opportunities.

According to Bodnar, the student-to-adult ratio is 4:1 in
the toddler class, which consists of two-and-a—half and three-
year-olds. The class of older children has a 15:1 ratio because
the older children tend to need little instructional assistance.

Margand spoke highly ofthe program, saying that it is
“special for a lot of kids.” She also said the school has
scholarships available for students with ﬁnancial need.
Bodnar said that the school will remain at its present loca-
tion as long as W&L’s long-range plans have room for it.

Bodnar said that other schools for young children in
Lexington cannot rival the Montessori program.

“It” s amazing what children are capable of doing,” she said.

 

PAGE 4

RESULT;

-Football (0-3)

14
30

Sat.: “W&L
Centre

Volleyball (6-4)
7th at Maryville Tournament

Women’s Soccer

(5-0)
Sat.: W&L 5
Guilford 2
Sun.: W&L 3
Greensboro 1
Men’s Soccer (4-1)
Thurs: E&H 1
W&L 6
Sat.: Goucher 2
W&L 4
Women’s X-Country
Sat.: 8th of 16 at
Dickenson
Men’s X-Country
Sat_; 9th Of 19 at

Cortland St. Inv.

AHEAD

Football
Sat.: at Randolph-Macon

' Volleyball

Tues.: Home vs. RMWC
Warner Center at 6:30
Thurs.: at Bridgewater

Rugby
Oct. 2: Season opens at
VMI on the Parade Grounds
Men’s Soccer

Wed.: Home vs. Western
Mennonite at 4:00

Sat.: at Guilford
Women’s Soccer
Thurs.: Home vs. S. Briar
Sun.: at SW Texas @RMC
Women’s X-Country
Sat: 10/11.: at VA St. Meet

Men’s X-Country -
Sat: 10/11: at VA St-. Meet

sports

SEPTEMBER 29, 1997

Colonels prove too much for ‘

BY CHRIS PUGSIEY
—--j-H-———— STAFF WRHER
_ he day after ﬁve former Gen-
, I erals athletes were inducted
into the Washington and Lee
Hall of Fame would be the perfect
time for the Generals’ ﬁrst win of the
season. Unfortunately, a very tough
Centre College team stood in their
way and proved to be too much for
W&L, defeating the Generals 30-14.
The Generals did play a solid game
showing strengths both offensively
and defensively, demonstrating that
there are still good things to come in
the future.
Offensively, J .T. Malatesta had a

1 100-yard receiving day including a 54

yard pass down to the Colonels’ two-
yard line. The Generals’ offensive
line, led by junior Marc Granger and
senior Stefan Neumeister, provided
excellent pass protection for its quar-
terback despite the excellent coverage
by the Colonels’ secondary. These
traits led to two ﬁrst half touchdowns
for the Generals and closed the half-
time gap to 21-14.

The second half was a great oppor-
tunity for the defense to show its fans
that they could make an impact, and
they did not disappoint. Superb cov-
erage from senior All-ODAC
comerback John Benazzi along with
senior Ryan Fletemyer and a good
pass rush by the defensive line held
the Colonels to nine second half
points. Seniors Omar Moneim, Jack
Boyd and Scott King all gained pen-
etration through the Colonels’ offen-
sive line and shut down Centre’s op-
tion attack in the second half. The
Generals also came up with a fumble
recovery and an interception in the
second half, giving the offense some
extra opportunities to score points.

 

Generals n all f ame Da

  

third straight to the Centre Colonels . CHRISTIE PHILLIPS/RING-IUM PHI

Unfortunately, the Generals’ of-
fense could not get started in the sec-
ond half with Malatesta drawing
double coverage and the Colonels
flushing quarterback Christian
Batchellor out of the pocket. The
Generals remained scoreless in the
second half and fell for the third

straight week. But both playing units
showed signs of good things to come
in the next few weeks and with only
one conference loss, the Generals still
have a very good chance to make
some noise in the ODAC.

Women’s soccer is unbeatable

BY FRANCES GROBERG
———j-——j—-— STAFF WRHER

And they keep winning.

The women’ s soccer team defeated
two North Carolina teams this week-
end, Guilford and Greensboro, to go
6-0 on the season. With these wins,
the Generals have opened with the
second best record in school history,
one victory shy of last year’s 7-0 start.

On Sunday against Greensboro,
senior Lorraine Taurassi scored ﬁrst
for W&L, putting the Generals out in
front just 12 minutes into the game.

Natalie Serianni of Greensboro
evened the game a short time later
with a feed from Nicole Jurand.

The tie would not last long, as long
as the Generals’ leading scorer was on
the ﬁeld. With eight minutes left in
the half, junior co—captain Karin
Treese scored to put W&L out in front
once again with a score of2- 1. In six
games, Treese has scored 1 1 goals and
is the all-time leading scorer in W&L
women’s soccer history.

Freshman Shana Levine, who re-
corded two goals on the weekend,

   The Problems with Pro Baseball

By Brendan Harrington

In the world of baseball, the play-
offs start tomorrow night and the eight
teams that will battle for the World
Series crown have all been deter-
mined. In the American League, the
defending champion New York Yan-
kees will take on the Cleveland Indi-
ans in a best of ﬁve series. While the
other series has the Baltimore Orioles
taking on the Seattle Mariners. In the
National League, the Houston Astros
will take on the Atlanta Braves and
the San Francisco Giants will face off
with the Florida Marlins.

I ﬁnd myself not all that excited
for the beginning of the baseball play-
offs. When I was younger, I wit-
nessed such thrills as game 6 of the

1986 World Series between the Mets
and Red Sox and Kirk Gibson’s dra-
matic home run in the ﬁrst game of
the 1988 World Series. But due to
recent events that have basically ru-
ined professional baseball for me, my
interest is at an all time low, though
last year was a very exciting post sea-
son.

For starters, I hate the current play-
off system. The Houston Astros
should not be in the playoffs. Both
the Dodgers and Mets have better
records than the Astros, but since the
Central Division champ gets in no
matter what their record is, the Astros
get a ticket to the post season. There
have been many different suggestions
for realignment, including talk of put-

ting teams such as the Mets and Yan-
kees in the same division to promote
geographic rivalries. This new sys-
tem would do away with the National
and American Leagues as we know
them and ruin the tradition of base-
ball. In my opinion, the best thing to
would be to keep both leagues intact
but do away with divisions. Just sim-
ply take the teams with the four best
records from either league and put
them in the playoffs.

Another problem I have with base-
ball is the length of the games. While
I was riding down to Lexington from
New York I listened to a Yankees/
Orioles game that turned out to be the

{D SeeJUNK1E page 5

 
   
       
   
 
     
  

 
 
   

lively bistro
8: outdoor patio ‘

Breakfast Lunch Candlelight Dinners
Fine Wines Imported Beers
Cappuccino Espresso
Homemade Baguettes 6’ Croissants
Outrageous Desserts

10% off with
college Ill

19 W. Washington St.
540 /464-1900

widened the gap to 3-0 with just un-
der six minutes left in the ﬁrst half.
The General’s defense remained solid
for the rest of the game, and the score
stood at 3-1 at the game’s conclusion.

Saturday against Guilford proved
to be a day for captains and freshmen.
The Generals defeated the Quakers by
a score of 5-2, thanks to a scoring
explosion in the second half when
W&L rocketed three goals in three-
and-a—half minutes past Guilford
goalie Jenny Ackman.

In the ﬁrst half, however, victory
was not always certain. Freshman
Margaret-Hunter Turner opened scor-
ing in the ﬁrst half for W&L with just
17 minutes remaining to put the Gen-
erals up 1-0, but Alison Schott of
Guilford answered quickly with a goal
of her own, tying the game at 1-1.

Late in the ﬁrst half another fresh-
man, Amanda McDermott, put W&L
ahead again with her goal off a pass
from freshman Elizabeth Olson.
Guilford answered again with a goal
from Abbey Weiner to tie the score
at 2-2.

The game remained deadlocked at
halftime and through most of the sec-

 See SOCCER page 5

Coach Frank Mirielo attmepts to boost the morale of his disgruntled defensive troops during the Hall of Fame Day where the Generals dropped their

STATS:

lst
Downs

Rushes-
Yards

Centre 20‘ 56-145

W&L 10 28-41

Passing Off. Plays- Time of
Yards Yards Possession
175 82-320 36:00
181 55-222 24:00

 Jock Shorts
- Cross Country runs over most of opposition
- Men’s soccer wins and loses - Volleyball

takes 7th

Men’s
Cross-Country

The men’s cross country team trav-
eled to the Cortland State Invitational
Saturday looking for a considerably
better showing than the 16th place ﬁn-
ish they took home last year. In ﬁn-
ishing ninth out of 17 schools in a
strong ﬁeld, that is exactly what was
achieved. Senior Jason Callen ran a
season best time of 26: 1 8 to place 12th
overall in a ﬁeld of 1 10 runners, and
senior Will Olsen ﬁnished eight sec-
onds later to claim 15th place. This
weekend the team gets a chance for
some much needed rest and relaxation
before heading down the road Octo-
ber 1 1th to compete in a meet at VMI.

Women’s
Cross-Country

The women’s cross country team
journeyed to Dickinson College Sat-

urday to compete in the Dickinson In-
vitational Cross Country Meet. Jun-
ior Natalia Dorofeeva placed seventh
in a ﬁeld of 136 to lead W&L to an
eighth place ﬁnish among the 16
teams present. Dorofeeva ran a sea-
son best time of 19:50 to lead the Gen-
erals for the 3rd consecutive week.
Senior Carson Flowers was second
across the line for the Generals with a
time of2l:07 to ﬁnish 36th overall.
Like their male counterparts, the
women’s cross country team will also
be taking the weekend off before trav-
eling to VMI in two weeks.

Men's Soccer

Junior forward Sam Chase is a
scoring machine. With three goals
and an assist in Thursdays game
against Emory & Henry, Chase pro-
pelled the Generals to a 6-1 victory

 See JOCK SHORTS
page 5

  er/e/We

.,..M

24 o/lam Mama o%eer
540-464-5800

l:lNE
WALIAN
CLJISINE

I

 

L “ SEPTEMBER 29, 1997

 

 JOCK SHORTS

the overall record was somewhat

sports/ news

PAGE 5

QTJUNKIE

and I must admit, I’ll be a little ex-
cited if the Yankees and Orioles meet

 

 

,  CONTWUED FROM PAGE 4 tarnished due to participation in the for the American League Champion-
tough Maryville Tournament over   CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5 ship. As for my predictions, it all
and moved into third place on the all- the weekend. Before the Generals k d _ , , longest nine inning game in the his- comes down to pitching, pitching, and
time W&L scoring list. 11 traveled to Maryville, however, off:V:e::,:w::trt:’g:‘°C: n:“ll1pe‘:::5 to Predict the baseball Play‘ tory of baseball. The game took over more pitching, especially relief pitch-
Jami€ParkeT and I are rea y Start- they first had a contest against con- ’ ' 4 hours and 20 minutes. That is just a in . The Yankees won the world se-
J. ing to play yvell together, Chase com- ference foe Roanoke on Tuesday in NLCS/ WORLD ridiculous amount of time for a nine riegs last year because their bullpen
mented after Thursdays hat tr1ck,When Salem. CHAMPION inning game. Pitchers should not be dominated in the post season.
we are in sync the goals start to come. Led by sophomore offensive star A1-CS SERIES allowed to take five minutes between Mariano Rivera and John Wetteland
Goals are deﬁnitely coming for Nancy Reinhart, who is currently Braves every pitch and throw overto first base were unstoppable. But this year is a
(_ Chase. With the winning shot in tied for the ODAC lead in kills per Brendan Harrington Marlins Braves six times. It makes the game BOR- different story, The Baltimore Orioles
Saturday 4-2 trlumph 0V6r Goucher game with 3.32, the Generals had a Columnist Orioles INGI now have the best pitching of any of
College, Chase upped his total ca- little trouble dispatching Roanoke, Orioles ' My biggest problem with baseball, the playoff teams, and for this reason
reer goals to 35, only ﬁve beneath winning 15-3, 18-16, 15-7. Yankees like many others, has to do with the 1 believe they will win it all. How-
‘ the School record of 40 Set by Scott It was the 20th consecutive B strike and the issues that go along with ever, they will face a stern challenge
' Fechnay in 1969. ODAC regular season victory for raves it. Baseball players are incredibly from the Atlanta Braves, who I think
h Althoplgh Chase tis gnlyka .l£1I1l(ii‘, the Iprolggrgm, astreakTt1l1iat d:tes back Matthew Craig Marlins Braves ovefpzigi Thlfire 15 1110 “1’:Y 3 Eledle‘ Will Pre‘/all in the Natienal I-eat‘-i.Ue~
e 1S we on pace 0 rea t e a - tot e 5 season. eyt en trav- . Orioles _ cre mi e re ievers ou ma e over But the la the ames forareason,
time W&L record within the next eled to Maryville, to a tournament Cm‘ Manager Orioles 3 nnlllon dollars a year. It-S just not We Canyoilyywatcgh and wan
ll. few weeks. With the victories over that featured two opponents ranked Yankees right. And free agency has turned the
Emory & Henry and Goucher this in the South region. Braves game into a joke. I can’t even keep  
week, the men’s soccer team re- The Generals played the first of Marl. _ track of what team a player is on any  S  C E R
bounded from the 3-0 loss against those opponents, Savannah A&D, Jason zaoher ms Marlms more. 1 CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
Virginia Wesleyan last week and im- on Friday. Despite 1 1 kills from Exec_ Editor Mariners Mariners Players have no sense of loyalty to
‘l‘ proved their overall season record Nancy Reinhart, Savannah A&D, Yankees one city and will simply go wherever 0nd half, until Treese, proving once
to 4-1. ranked #5 in the poll, defeated the they can find the most cash. Even the again just how valuable she is to W&L
“We didn’t ay especially well,” Generals 15-7, 15-8, 15-6. On Sat- defending champion New York Yan- women’s soccer this season, scored
noted Chase, “but we did what it urday, the team played three Brav-es kees have an entirely different-look— with just seven minutes left in the
- 7» - - - John Stewart Marlms Braves ~ -
‘. takgs to  th. C h P. ‘a niatches, winning one and losing Sports Editor Yankees llﬁg team Ehfin aciiygar ago. A1nd,Ihz;te igI:iCITr1e€€;.s:£:;l1I:.:S11aSgC.Cr)1r:d if; a 53:5 to
ne o e ings oac irani n wo. Mariners e recen en 0 ren ing p ayers or r i o - . e an-
did this week to improve the The first match was against the Yankees the pennant chase and playoffs and other freshman, Levine sealed the vic-
General’s attack was to move All- #6 team in the South, Westminster. then getting rid of them at the end of tory with her unassisted goal to put
American sweeper Michaiel Parker Led by Nancy Reinhart (12 kills), B’aVe5 the year . The)’ Play With 3 team for 3 W&L "P 5’2~
,(_ into the midfield. Hilary Martin (1 1 kills) and Ali Chris Pugsley Marlins Marlins month and a half and get a World Se- Next to face the Wrath of the unde-
is}-Iaving Parker as a defensive Beard (21 assists), the Generals Sports writer , Orioles ries ring and then move on to another feated Generals will be Sweet Briar,
mid gave us an extra go-to guy in played tough despite a poor start O“°1°S team. How are you supposed to have when the 1997 team will try to repeat
the middle,” said Chase. ~ and ultimately fell in three straight Yankees a favorite team when half the team is the 1996 t<=am’s 7-0 start. The game
The experiment worked wonder- games 1-15, 11-15, 11-15, _ different from year to year? Will be held on Thursday, Oct. 2 at
‘‘ fully in Thursdays game. Parker Next came tournament host Logos courtesy of Major League Baseball But for now, on with the playoffs, 4:30pm on Liberty Hall Field.

scored the first goal a few minutes
into the first half and freshman
Yacek Mucha, Parkers replacement,
4 played solidly the entire game.
However, in Saturdays outing
against Goucher, the plan may have
- backﬁred as the defense allowed two
suspect goals. It will be interesting
4 to find out how Coach Piranian plays
the Parker and Mucha combination
this week against last years ODAC
champions Eastern Mennonite Uni-
1» versity.

Maryville, In a marathon match, the
Generals lost a heartbreaker 14-16,
15-5,11-15,15-11, 10-15. Nancy
Reinhart once again led the offense
with 16 kills, and junior Megan
Snodgrass added 10 kills and 5
blocks in the losing cause. The Gen-
erals finally broke out of their los-
ing streak in the last match of the
tournament against ODAC foe East-
ern Mennonite.

Behind Nancy Reinhart’s 16 kills
and senior Holly Thomsen’s 13
kills, the Generals won 3-1. With
that victory, the team finished 7th
in the tournament and improved
their record to 7-4. This week they
play two conference games, at home
on Tuesday against Randolph-Ma-
con in the Warner Center at 6:30
p.m. and at Bridgewater College on

Committee, Panhellenic President
Suzanne Sharp announced that a
special Sorority Housing Commit-
tee would be established, and would
report to the Board of Trustees at
the October 1995 meeting.

At the Campus Life meeting in
October 1995, the Sorority Hous-
ing Committee presented its report,
favoring the construction of houses
for each sorority with an occupancy
of20-25, meal facilities, a common
social/meeting space and no large
“party room.” Discussions contin-
ued throughout the 1995-96 aca-
demic year.

In January 1997, representatives
of the Panhellenic Council met with
the University Master Plan Consult-

‘ZDHOUSING

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

process, the University would
continue to work with the city of
Lexington in developing a Master
Plan that includes that new soror-
ity houses, in accordance with ap-
plicable zoning regulations.

Over the past five years, the
Campus Life Committee of the
Board of Trustees sought and re-
ceived regular reports on soror-
ity housing from student leaders.
Formal discussions about soror-
ity housing began at the Campus
Life Committee in May 1995. At
the behest of the Campus Life

ant, the Hillier Group, to discuss ,/’ I ‘
sorority housing. At the May 1997   M
   
a resolution which was supported
by the Board of Trustees to “adopt
as a very high priority the construc-
tion of sorority housing.”

The final decision on sorority
housing comes 12 years after the
first female class at W&L and eight
years after the establishment of the
first three sororities -— Kappa
Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega and
Kappa Alpha Theta. Pi Beta Phi
was added in 1992 and Kappa Delta
in 1997. After the January 1997
rush, 67 percent of W&L women
were sorority members.

Judi McKeage, who accompa-
nied Duchossois, praised his “top-
down, open-door” leadership.

The principles Duchossois
shared with the students are the
same ones that elevated him to
the top of private industry. He as-
sured students that their time at
W&L would be an asset through-
out their lives, although he noted
that one thing has changed since
he was a student.

“I’ve never seen so many beau-
tiful women on this campus!”

Volleyball

The volleyball team went into

‘ last week with an impressive 5-1
overall record and a 2-0 ODAC
record. Though by week’s end their
undefeated ODAC record and con-

       
   

     
     
       
    
      
       
        

    

, secutive win streak were still intact, Thursday.

I

  ' W ’ W h -

- This eek 5 eat er.

"' Tuesday Wednesday Thursday

4

n High: 73° High: 69° High: 73°

Low: 53° Low: 49° Low: 46°
“ Saturday Sunday
. www.arthurandersen.com
i‘‘
U Who
 Juniors anél Ssenioiisnvnvith
l - . , ma'ors in - choo , ath, .
l A H'9h' 74° "'9"? 75° and Computer Science i
L°W= 47° Low: 53°
l
, What When
3 A
Courtesy of the National Weather Service Informational Meeting on Thursday, October 2, 1997
Internships and Permanent at 7:00 p.m.
opportunities with Arthur Andersen
5.
COSTA RICA Wh‘-“'9 Wm’
. . - d't '
V Siudy Paradise this Spring C School Au lonum ;c:tLeuarrrAr?:jcg.:§:_out
The Organization for Tropical Studies in partnership with
Duke University offers a lielcl-oriented semester abroad program
in tropical ecology and Latin American culture. Students earn 16 credit
6 hours in biology, environmental science, and Spanish language 8: culture.
Credit: may be transferred from Dulce.   
0 hands-on biology 0 cultural immersion - field trips
0 independent projects - remote field sites
‘A. 0 research 0 exotic wildlife
For brochure and application materials, conlcicl
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0633
Tel: (919) 684-5774; E-mail: <nao@acpub.dul<e.edu>
1 liltp://www.ols.dul<e.edu
Applicolion deadline for i998 Spring semester is October l5, l997.

 

 

gour

t might have seemed like a
weak weekend, but things
were still bumping and

grinding in Big Lex. If you
couldn’t or didn’t make it out to

Davidson. Park and Red
UEUC this weekend, here’s a

 

 Band Party — Friday
Night. A ton of people, a great band

for dancing ——  On.

And a perfect way to get sweaty
without feeling guilty about it in
the morning. Bill, the Domino’s

P”
man who was selling $3 pizzas

touch. (I)A(“) Band Party -

turday ' ht. Three words:

CC 2111211121

lab ‘Out. No this isn’t my
sick sexual symbolism again, just
the name of a kicking band who had

a lead singer with super-powerful
lungs.

There was also enough room on the
dance ﬂoor to shake your bootie
without shaking it in someone else’s
space (unless that was your plan, of

course).  Tropical Party

—— Saturday Night. Lambda Chi
went all out once again for this
annual party. Mad props go out to
the boys for rigging up the huge

WalCI  that fell from the

roof into a pool below. (Although it
looked suspiciously like Sigma Nu’s
annual Spring Term Shipwrecked

The dance ﬂoor was sparse at times
but the bar was always full --

imagine that.  Band party

' Saturday Night Yeehall Kappa Sig’s

“Redneck Ball Mixer with Theta
opened up around 11 p.m., at which
time everyone was offered a chance
to see what it’d be like to live like

the townie-S.

Hay covered the ﬂoor, chicken
wire surrounded the bar and people
traipsed around in more camouflage
and bright orange articles of
clothing than at a hunting gear
exposition.

The band, Sneaky Pete,

set the mood for some down home
country fun and when I overheard
someone say, “Naw I ain’t got no
book learnin”’ way too authenti-
cally, I realized how lucky I was that

SIMPLE
Soi.u1'ioNs son
THE SociAi.i.v
CHALLENGED

doesn’t score you any

Dear Ms. Etiquette,

l’m in a major predicament.
There’s this guy and we’re friends
at best. Okay, we’re halfway be-
tween acquaintances and friends.
Lately he’s been calling me, like
everyday. l’m not his girlfriend!
How can I let him know that, and
most importantly how can I pre-
vent him from asking me to Home-
coming?

-Dodging Phone Calls in Gra-
ham Lees

Dear Dodger,

“All these boys keep calling
me.” Wah, wah. You need to get
over yourself before NO ONE is
calling you. Seriously though, the
only way to let him knowthat you
don’t like him like that without
hurting his feelings is to simply‘

FIND YOURSELF ANOTHER
MAN AND MAKE SURE HE
KNOWS ABOUT IT. So what are"
you waiting for?! Get to work  the
Homecoming scramble has already
begun.

Dear Ms. Etiquette,

Wednesday night, I hooked up
with the dreamiestboy! As an added
bonus he asked me to Homecom-
ing! So what’s the problem? Iwoke
up the next day and realized we
were both totally trashed the night
before.

So now what? Do I call and see
ifthe date is still on? Do you think
he’ll even remember my name?

-Scared to be Dateless

£30|91$9ﬁﬁoﬁﬂ$063QOQ§BUGOO8I$#¢§8O3ﬂ€i49$

 

Miss Etique1.te’s tip of the Weelc
Pay attention to your I}Hall habits. Bad ones can Cost
you your friends. and dropping your tray on the floor
points in the cool deparmient

$93&0$83ﬂOEQJDGOﬁQ$€¢OCt§I9$Q$£$lC§€08¢5B

Dear Scared

Put that phone down now! Of
course you don’t call him. I hate to
be the bearer of bad news, but  sit
and wait for the phone to ring. Wait
to see if he says anything.

If you realize that it’s the
Wednesday night of Homecoming
week and you’re still waiting by the
phone, run, do not walk, to the
nearest fraternity party and strut
your stuff.

Being picky is no longer an
option. Take whatever you can get.
Beware, W&Lfemales on the prowl
the week of Homecoming are more
vicious than Lee’s troops them-
selves!

Since my box has been ﬂooded
with anxious questions from
frightened freshmen, I decided to
provide y’all with some tips on how
to snag that ever-important Home-
coming date.

1. GET OUT THERE! Being
visible and seen out at parties often
is a MUST! Having three tests and
a paper due Monday is not an ex-

. cuse to stay in, nor is bronchitis.

2. Always look your best, you
never know who you’re going to
run into while doing laundry or
takingthatquickietriptoWal—mart.

3. This is not the weekend to get
trashed. Throwing up on a fratty
boy’s feet will cost you an entire
house of date options.

4. Always look like you’re hav-

V ing a good time, even when you’re

not.

 O E.C. Budget meeting-
we beg for money 9  O
AED Seminar: “Medical School Ad-
missions” Aileen A. Edwards and
' Cynthia M. Heldberg Medical College
of Virginia Room 214 New Science
Building 5 p.m. 0 Volleyball vs.
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Warner Center 6:30 p.m. O Environ-

  

—

 mental Studies Program: Christopher
Science Building 7:30 p.m. Q  9 June 1998 degree
applications due THIS MEANS YOU, SENIORS 9 Men’s Soccer vs. Eastern
Mennonite at Liberty Hall Field at 4:30 pm. O‘Trident hits the newsstands Q
 O Rosh Hashanah 9 Women’s Soccer vs. Sweet Briar at
Liberty Hall Field at 4:30 p.m. 0 Friday 0 Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts
at SigEp 0 Start the mad search for a homecoming date 9  O
ALCOHOLIDAY! Sponsored by the David Thompson Endowment Commit-
tee in the Lenfest Center at 7 p.m. 9 DJ Party at Sigma Nu (this could be Friday)
0 Huge Party at Big “E” 6 Sunday; Listen to Eric and John from 1 0 to
12 on WLUR 9 Think about catching up on all that reading you’ve been

Camuto in the Great Hall of the New

ignoring for the first month of school 9

Colonnade Club

quick review of some of the parties

we made it to; out front all night, was also a nice

Dou

a n d R o b i n’s
st  Southern Inn. The restaurant has
been a Lexington landmark since the
V]  dawn of time. Its has been under new
ownership since October and we had
heard good things since this change.

T(l;e7§.0lj‘f,:?; 139,131“ We arrived late on a Thursday night with Andrea and
. ‘ I 5 _ ' Steven. Since we were all hungry, we opted for an appe-
Ratmgs ( ' )° tizer. The waitress infonned us that there were no more

Lee himself probably ate at The

Sewlcea 3 fried mushrooms, so instead we chose blooming onion.
P9 Per Grinder, 0 As usual Dou o ted for wine and re uested a glass
P , 3 P _ _ Q

Bathrooms, 4 of the house White Zinfandel, which was Glen Ellen.
Food Quality, 4 Robin selected Slice, while Andrea chose a tall glass of
presentation 4 iced tea and Steven drank water.

Prices_ $6_20’ The specials of the day tempted Andrea and Steven.

He chose crab cakes as his entree, with a salad, baked
potato and green beans as the vegetable of the day. Andrea chose a large piece
of red meat: the rib eye steak, medium rare, with a baked potato and veg-
etables. She also requested a bowl of the soup of the day, potato. _

Andrea’s previous visit had given her the inside scoop on the chicken, so
Robin accepted Andrea’s suggestion and ordered the Crispy Chicken and or-
dered a bowl of the black bean soup. Doug’s selection, BBQ pork chops, also
came with salad, a baked potato, and vegetables.

First, Andrea and Robin received their soups. Andrea declared hers de-
lightful and well-seasoned. Robin’s black bean soup was equally enjoyable,
particularly with the sour cream, which provided a nice contrast to the soup.

The onions arrived next: two smaller onions, sliced into straws but still
attached at the base, breaded and fried, which came with ranch dressing for
dipping. The appetizer was freshly prepared and quite tasty; Andrea and Robin
both noted that it was less greasy and more ﬂavorful than similar onions they
had tried in the past.

The salads were pleasantly arranged platters of a variety of green garden
delights, with small pieces of other colorful vegetables for contrast. All of the
dressings (Italian and honey mustard) were tasty, and the salads quickly dis-
appeared, making room for the entrees.

, Andrea’s steak arrived dramitically on a sizzling platter cooked to perfec-
tion, exactly medium rare and quite tender. Steven enjoyed his crab cakes,
although he noticed some shells left from the preparation.

Doug’s pork chops were a great success, covered in a tangy barbeque sauce,
and Robin’s chicken lived up to its reputation: well-seasoned, lightly breaded,
tender and scrumptious. Everyone enjoyed the baked potatoes, which had been
cooked with something unidentifiable to give them an unusual taste.

Doug and Andrea called dibs on the last two pieces of chocolate cake,
Steven selected pecan pie, while Robin chose lemon meringue. The_pecan
and lemon meringue pies were excellent. Doug and Andrea found their cake
somewhat dry, such that Doug had to wash down each bite with coffee.

We rolled out onto Main Street, well satisfied with our meal. The Southern
Inn offers variety and quality, in plentiful portions. Sandwiches are available
during the week, while the entree menu takes over and expands on weekends.

For those who need somewhere different to spend a nice night out with

friends, The Southern Inn is a good place to try.

party) The tiki torches and palm

_ this was just another awesome party
fronds also added to the ambiance.

at W&L.

On the earth, there stands a mountain.

And on this mountain, there stands a rock.

And on this rock, there stands a table, made of oak.

And on this oaken table, there stands a bust of Jean—Jacques Rousseau.

And on this stone representation of Rousseau’s head, there stands a
common house fly.

And on this common house fly, there is a speck of dust.

And on  to infinitude.

But then the house ﬂy furiously beats its tiny wings and takes ﬂight,
completely obliterating the infinite set. The ﬂy must carry infinity on‘ its
back, and infinity, being infinitely heavy, tends to weigh down the ﬂy.
Seeing another bust,thistimeof
Franz Kafka, the  y decides to
land there and Tom M011a00 rest. Also rest-
ing upon Kaﬂ<a’s What? head is a cock-
roach.

The cockroach also shoulders a heavy burden: self doubt. For you see,
the cockroach was shown that his existence had been a hindrance to
others, whom he believed he was helping. This left him to ponder the
question, “has my entire life been dedicated to achieving the opposite of
my desires?”

The ﬂy found this dejected cockroach moping about Kaﬂ(a’s frontal
cranial region and said to him:

“You look as though something terrible has forsaken you, my friend.
What is it?”

The cockroach explained the source of his gloom, and to this the ﬂy
responded:

“My dear fellow, it seems as though you have been misguided by your
reason. All actions are mere grains of sand in an endless desert, and,
therefore, have no meaningful consequences. I, for example, am part of
an infinite set, in that, all things which I am part of can be encompassed
by the word “universe,” which, as we have learned, appears to be »
constantly expanding. While all which is part of me can be categorized
by the word “atom,” which as we continue to discover more subatomic
particles, seem to be constantly expanding, at least in the context of our
knowledge.

So, henceforth, all the actions that we take are so minuscule in the
entire scheme of life, that they hold no lasting or meaningful conse-
quence. There is no sense, then, in dwelling on things which, in essence,
mean virtually nothing; instead, one should focus one’s attention on the
present and near future, because these are the periods of time which hold
the most meaning for us. We cannot question our intentions because all
of our intentions are good, save the intent for inactivity. So, my friend,
what you are presently doing is pointless and must be stopped.”

The cockroach did not respond to, oreven understand, what had been
said to it. The fly’s words had erased all of the reasons for the cockroach ’s
gloom from its memory. - — « ~

Now, seeing that he had nothing to worry . about, the cockroach
walked off Kafka’s bust to go live a normal cockroach life.

As they say: Ignorance is bliss.

‘G.l. Jane’: Moore ofthe same

we of 4 stars — The pitch: “|t’|l be like
‘Alien 3’ meets ‘In the Army Now’—
wait, neither of those were hits.”

ALEX CHRISTENSEN
—-—?——P’HI IVIOVIE CRITIC
Every time I talk to someone about
“G.I. Jane,” it seems, they all find a
way to get around to telling me, “It
shouldn’t really be called ‘G.I. Jane,’
you know. G.I.’s are in the Army, and
the movie is about the Navy. Theyjust

used this name because it sounded better.” Who cares?! It does sound better.

And besides that, it’s symbolic. “G.I. Joe” is symbolic ofall men in uniform,
so when a woman attempts to take on a role reserved for men, the term “G.I.
Jane” has a unique resonance. Although, of course, the classic contrast isn’t Joe
vs. Jane, but John and Jane, as in John and Jane Doe, or Jack and Jill, or Joseph
and Mary. But then, “G.I. Mary” is another movie altogether. Nathan Lane, call
your agent.

As luck would have it, the title is the best thing about the movie. Yes, you
get to see her naked. Whew, we got that out of the way. Only from behind,
though, in the shower, in a decidedly unsexy moment. And she’s worked out
so much that she looks like a man, but she isn’t, so God knows who this butt-
shot was designed to appeal to. Truckers and Eastern European shotputters,
maybe.

Some executive probably found out that’s a hot demographic, so he gathered
up all the hacks he could—Ridley Scott (director of “Blade Runner” and “White
Squall”), writer David Twohy (“Terminal Velocity,” “Waterworld”) and the
ever-resourceful Demi Moore and said, “Please take my ﬁfty million dollars
here, go work this chick out until she looks less like a young mother and more
like a missile silo, then beat the hell out of her while she swears like a sailor and
sort ofgrits her teeth for two hours, and put it all on film and we’ll make a mint.
What’s that? Okay, Ridley, you can put your damn opera music on the
soundtrack.”

  

And so, they did. Might as well rent “Striptease.” It’s mildly entertaining,
plus more naked. '

'_I‘ruth.is, I’ve. never been a fan of the brutalize-a-woman film, and in
anticipation of this review, I’ve been wondering whether that’s sexist. I didn’t

I have a problem when, say, Marvin got his head blown off in “Pulp Fiction.”

There are a lot of reasons why that’s different, of course. I think “G.I. Jane” is
the most recent example of not just making an action film with a female star, but
making a film where a woman is treated brutallyjust for the fun ofit. “The Long
Kiss Goodnight,” one of the worst films of all time, is another example. The
female character actually luxuriates in her sick, slow torture in a way that no
male has ever done on film, unless there was something seriously wrong with
him. And then these women are practically lionized, if not canonized.

“Alex, Alex, Alex,” someone will say. “What’s your real problem? Can’t
women meet challenges, too? Do they have to all be nice, retiring homemakers?
Men have been in these kinds of movies for a long time, and they’re great.” That
last part is the ﬂaw, though. Not only have men not been in these kinds of
movies, but if they had, they would have been just as perverse and disgusting.
Jodie Foster’s character was raped in “The Accused.” In Jack Hill’s “Foxy
Brown,” Pam Grier’s character was tied naked to a bed and fondled, and had to
slaughter a bunch of rednecks to escape. But they didn’t sit back later and say,
“Oh wow, l’m so glad I went through that. It was not only a learning experience,
but I think I actually nipped out during it.” There’s a [mint to the Vlolenrp
There’s a plot. There’s a dramatic continuity.

“G.I. Jane” doesn’t give us any of that. There’s some basic tension-building;
Ridley Scott is a professional director, though for some reason he shoots every
scene to look like either dawn or sunset. There are even good moments. Demi
Moore’s Lt. Jordan O’Neil confronts Anne Bancroft’s weaselly Senator Lillian
DeHaven in a particularly triumphant one. And Viggo Mortensen, it seems, can
make almost any role interesting. (He actually gave “Daylight” a little bit of
spark and kineticism, however brief.) And, of course, Demi Moore worked out
a lot. Woo hoo.

I’d like to see an action movie where the star bragged about sitting around
eating big baked potatoes with sour cream and bagels with cream cheese for two
months, laughing hysterically while fast-forwarding through stuff like “Aliens,”
and “Mission: Impossible” between takes. Instead we get Demi again, naked
again, not acting again. At least her stripping had style. Here she just gets
punched in the face and dragged through the mud. But she likes it. She loves it.
You betcha

Hollister Hovey

 
    
  
   
 
 

 

ILL
A kg?-*AT VLEVVXE I ctlkéé WILL-

EUTTN 0?i>i;'<t1 “lb 120
11419 I llrl\\-’E:’i’o eer
i>i>WN "tile iLu't-1-‘-sl.

 

tr youll menus
min wet Yam
pom we Vet/reﬁll‘
WM 12, V99 “I3 07" l

EoPlE“:9, l7E“3l“‘l/’l—:’{:l‘ ta: Tpgjz; (,p(r[2__
TF4?’-I ll , Mil) 5. , :
Pr:iZr=ao'r _l7€329DN " 5” \‘’‘’¢ 7; Y!“ M
f<v\'ﬂf%9:“'l WY 1 ;:i_ L . J U
\ k?«?~N‘T /\Li,ol\ie~t2. 9

)’t=‘/‘:6 9i?-: él4¥l\ll> A/lA6l9P~

PUEA of ‘Ill? ilvuee,

\NV/ WM Vattovv youe.
l/éAP.

  
 

   
 
  
  
 
 

 
 

TH‘? Ni2><r W.Ffry,,_

   

Dkl/lt\l' l livid? MY Vl/AN WM
W094. l/9UAL\»‘l  Hl\VE.”~
9u?»’7’l$ ey Now, u'i"l
Ca}?-99 lit?»
LWL 19E‘-721%?-F,‘”:
ALWM9 Lilac:

  

  

  

Millage U9 Looié l2J€~A\.t,\1 ;00lJ.

iv .

_"..

  

 

sonal belongings unsecured. Sure,
it is great to take unproctored ex-
ams and have professors take you
at yourword. Most assuredly, honor
trials and the single sanction are an
important part of that system. But,
if we were making Venn diagrams,
that would be the small circle stuff.
Big circle: General Lee wanted
his students to “behave like gentle-
men.” In modern, PC, gender-
neutral language, that boils down
to character and integrity. Over at
VMI they would call it discipline,
“doing the right thing in the ab-
sence of orders” and, as you have
discovered, oftimes in the absence
of others. In a day long gone, in the
South, we called it “honor”. There
are a lot of folks these days who
call that archaic, impractical be-
havior, butlthinkitis the one thing
that separates W&L from every
other school. By reinforcing that
character trait, we make leaders.
When you leave Big Lex, you
will have a lot of memories of tail-

when you have proved your mettle
through many character building ex-
periences, you will be a valued person
in this society, because you will be
one of a very few persons whom oth-
ers can trust. The thieves beyond the
Colonnade can stealalotofthings, but
only you can give away your honor.

We need more people we can trust,
so don’t despair. You have a whole
world counting on you.

Mike Webb ’88, ’00L

Realize the boundaries
of the Honor System

To the Editor:

Joshua Heslinga’s letter to the edi-
tor in the Sept. 22 issue of the Phi
underscores a common pitfall, indeed,
one might even say, a shortcoming of
the W&L Honor System. It is a short-
coming which, to my knowledge, has
never been broached in a public fo-
rum, possibly..due,to. the wild and

ington vendors to adhere to a system
which applies only to students. Fur-
ther, it is not a stipulation of the Stu-
dent Handbook that townspeople must
respect the W&L Honor System, or
that they should hold students to the
standard of excellence which is en-
capsulated within.

Familiarity with and respect of the
implicit honor of a W&L student de-
pends on the prerogative of each indi-
vidual townsperson. Any other point
of view betrays the ‘dangerous
mindset’ of which I speak.

Unfortunately, the recent rash of
thefts and Heslinga’s confession serve
as all too vivid reminders that the
honor system extends only as far as
the responsibility of a single student
and his interaction with his peers and
the faculty. This is important for
students to take note of, for miscon-
ceptions about the boundaries of the
Honor System have dangerous impli-
cations for one’s interactions in the
real world.

There exists a negative quality im-

opin_ior1& edit Ori 211

of the Lexington vendors
to adhere to a system
which applies only to the
students.”

77

upper-class student reading this piece
will be to scoff to himself, ‘‘I’m not
that naive.” However, even if on a
conscious level one is aware of the
obvious boundaries of an honor sys-
tem, the pattern of behavior which
proceeds from obeisance produces a
subconscious sense ofmoral guidance.
And here in the subconscious is
where the real danger lies. A sense of
trust and the expectation of honorable
behavior become subliminal guide-
lines for the passive W&L mind when
it is thrust into the real world. This
creates a certain vulnerability and the
potential for more serious problems
than those related by Heslinga in his
disenchanted missive. Years of living
as a Coddled pup do not adequately
prepare a young pup for the wild.
Perhaps I am making a boil out of

PAGE 7

I
I I
Letters to The Ring-tum Phl
4 Th“ "'°“°' System ming in Goshen, and tales about “the .,,,,,,, ,,,c,,,,,tl mm ante, an traps within and rigid code of ethics. are somtooi tho most formative roars Phi needs to pull its
creates leaders » - y P y whichonc mi ht h t ' ~b ' of our lives. What we learn now will - -
one IOSI IOVC WhOg0l away. YOU Wlll mention of our Honor System. i g C attlc cttze at’ tllng l _  
Dear Editor; havealot ofbook knowledge thatwill please note that l do not intend to 5“hVet5'V¢tY P3Vl0‘’13h- 3)’ thlsi t attcct 0”’ t"’ha"‘°ra 0”’ achhhsi 0”’
place you in good standing with your defile or bellllle our honor system as mean thatthe Honor System promotes lives. We must therefore choose our l lrnrllore you to qllestloh your
a r am writing in response to peers from other SchoolS_ some archaic beastbom Oroutmoded conditioned behavior, a thoughtless own code of ethics and keep our eyes lntegrltyt your use of the article
Joshua Heslinga’s letter to the Phi And! 35 You get even Older’ thah)’ idealism. I have the highest regard hallelll of acllolls wlllcll follow all wldc. Open" Of Course’ we mllsl also Cohceththg ml’ tttehd tack
. in which he sccmcd saddened that of those experiences will fall into the for out Honor System, when it is ldeallzcd Slllrldardr 3 Stahdhrd Whose Crlhhhllh to rcspcct the W&t- H0"°_t Bowden’s death to advertise the
others outside our community do class of “childhood memories.” In exerelsed and adnllnlsteled in a 'mPh‘33t‘0h5 arc Perh3P5 hht tuhy S_Y5t‘?th ahd the hclatdcda t0ttY trad“ presence of The Ring-tum Phi on
, notcare aboutthe HonorSystem. I this f3St'P3C°d World You will be thoughtfuland realistic way, thoughl grasped by llle followers‘ , lloll ll leplcSClllS' the thtelhet ts dePt°tahte- The
hr agree that it is regretful, because tempted to throw “honor” in that cat- am not Sure that tllls is the case_ 1 The W&L Hohor SYStem '5 ho ex‘ P _ k t l ’ article itself was so poorly written
there was a time, long before “big 6800/ of ththgs that had Stghtttcahce merely wish to point out, rather, that ,ccpll0ll lo idle, rule’ Frcslllllall Sllldcrlls alllc wllllamsoll 98 that t Cohstdeted Pmtestthg at that
business” came to Big Lex, when only atone moment in time. Iremem- asystern intended to lnstlll Vlrtlle and ‘h general afflvc atthls university with time. I did not because I felt that
there was a more sympathetic feel- berwell my days in Army Special Ops honorin the individual within aclosed °“l3l’. a lhalldlll ””‘l“rSl‘”“l'”g ‘ll. ll?“ Open Letter to the yourrrowspapor would have a pro-
yk ingtowardsthe HonorSystem from where the unofficial motto was, “If System through the eoneeot of a rnn_ Zhptlcatttzjho ft”: H0h0ISY5t°T:l’Vhh1h Cadaver Society dominately new staff this year, as
the mom andpopshopsbeyondthe Y0" aﬂhtcheahngr Y0“ alnlttfylng-” tual trust also has the potential to l’ dull SO 6 Camhllsllll lls ah Y°”‘P’°ht““S°tt35tYearstemmed
Co1onnadc_ Howcvcr, all too of- The fact is that few understandthat create a dangerous mindset in that P_hCat'Oh as 3 Code Of ethtcs tater 1" t primarily from apathy and incom-
tcn, wc get caught up in the “pet. the value in honor comes from keep- some individual‘ life. 'll“thel:wo should not be confused. Dear Editor, petence. I was dissapointed by
I 50"-‘ll hen‘ thgh-Thatstmple Heslinga’s singular reaction to l l. lll ll Safe lo Say lllal W&L’ , , The Rr”3““’" Phi» "°tt°tth° thst
ll efits” of the “ act Will t6St YOU being duped as an unwise consumer Amell.C2.l alldllle real world alhdlspalr Thls letter ls addressed to the Ca‘ time‘
Honor System In this f3St"P3Ced W0rld in ways YOU 0311- illustrates the nature of this mind set, ale lllllllles “llllcll vary gleally.lll lemls drlvel Srlclely l At Yohthahdsa the S3dde5tCh3P'
and lose the you will be ten-lptcd to 1103 hﬁgth t0 fortunately in a relativel)’ harmless Ohllllﬁslylé’ ldeolrlgy ind elllcllcs ll ls tel lh my llfe ehdhres‘ Every lsshe
P°tht of What 4: 9) . imagiheibutyou way. I3)’ complaining about the mis— l .6“: Ole lmpelallvel at Stu ems re‘ Dear Members’ of The Rr”g't“”‘ Phi’ Save Ohly
tr’ General Lee thI'OW honor III that wlllllndstrength trust and alleged lmproprlety of SeV_ ahze that the Hhhol SYSt°m PTOPCT I l _ your most recent edition, heralds
r W3m¢d- category Of things that Und€fﬁf€- When era] local vendors, Heslinga reveals Cahlfhty h: 3PPh_edl0h CamPU5- t I know your organizationtis full of your own virtues with Hollister
Sure, it is d _ ,f_ 1 t others are l,llr_ his own mlsoohoeotlort of the reallS_ 0W: t C t)’P'C3 Ie5P0h5e 0t the school spirit for W8iL, so I d like to Hovey’s photo ofthe very private
greattobeable ha 518111 lcance on y a dened with cynl_ tlo hollnrlarles ofollr Honor Systemis (C bring to your attention a matter that notes and flowers left outside Gil-
to leave your one moment in time.” cism, you will jurisdiction. It is not the responsibility directly atttfcts W&L_a"d 0UrS0°ioty- liarrt Those were not meant to be
AC bikes and per— )7 ﬁnd hope. And, It is not the responsibility of Lex- The matter is the taping of paper oop- exploited by your paper to add a

ies ofthe symbol of your organization
all over the campus. W&L’s campus
is known for its beauty and the night-
time littering of the campus is unac-
ceptable to me and to others who ap-
preciatethis beauty. Additionally, your
organization does nothing to facilitate
the clean up of your litter.

I would also call your attention to
the fact that we should all be more
conscious of conserving the trees and
not wasting paper. And now a sugges-
tion to solve the problem: Since W&L
has two wonderful methods of com-
munication, why not make use ofthem
to broadcast your enthusiasm for the
school? The PhoneMail and E-mail
systems willcontact everyone on cam-
pus.

I hope you will think seriously about
your actions and work to change them.

Thank you,
Maryanne Simurda
Biology Department

touch of “sentiment” or whatever
you thought you were doing by
includingthe photo. The items left
below J ack’s window were expres-
sions of personal grief.

The actual article was no im-
provement; it smacked of the in-
sensitivity and sensationalism
found so frequently in your paper.
If your authors cannot deem what
is appropriate, then your editor
should, although the spelling er-
rors and grammatical mistakes
makes me wonder if you have an
editor at all.

I miss Jack as acutely as the day
he died. Please, ease the pain of
those who remember the delight
Jack brought to this campus and
stop using the issue addressing his
death as an advertisement ploy.

On a final note, if the staff of
The Ring-tum Phi does not have
the time or energy to do theirjobs
well, I suggest that they abandon
their enterprise entirely.

 

 

  
   
 
  

 
 

      

 
  

 

ll gate and fraternity parties, swim- indiscriminate praisewhichinthesame plicit within any honor system, per— la hllrlplet rlllr l lrllly rlelleve that these Ashtel’ P°hk3Va loo
l - l TIAA--CREF.
l the ﬁg ﬁlm
We 6:  l Proven
' \2\\t>.\:§ ll) thmttot ***** 
Qt‘ —Mornin3star ratings for the 19 Last
CREF Global Equities Account, CREF Equity Index Account, _
and CREF Growth Account‘ 8' lllfetlmed
We take a lot of pride in gaining
‘l 50 Write IO  N _ high marks from the major rating
us! send your Lexingtgllnal?/Aslgjﬁlgo services. But the fact is, we’re
letter to 540_463_6O equally proud of the ratings we
or _ get in the mail every day from
ph'@w|u -edu s or our participants. Because at
leave it by our ./ﬁx-kaob  TIAA-CREE ortourtootho finan-
ce at room I cial futures of the education and
p.  in the Uni Gfeat Cuts & Styhng’ Pefms on gu,,,ey»»- research community is something
I Coloring’ Foiling’ Hot Waxing’ that goes beyond stars and

"e"'tV cehtet Manicures & Pedicures Facials “”“‘l°e‘S' S°l’°’“ll‘l°ll‘l°““l

, I . . . .

l ll of deposit  in walk_ins Welcome and variable annuities to life

. r insurance and personal savings

OUT mailbox. . . (‘Your sffyl l  plans, you'll ﬁnd we provide

l Please  S if wlllla»ul.“,.RaVdln’TlAlAr the right choices —and the

l . _ _ .

l 1 Ieﬂefs to ﬁve L ' o ded1cat1on—to help you achieve

l CXI , . .

l hundred words.  n  U n d  S C   a l1fetlI’T1e'Of ﬁnancial goals. The

l; _ and rating services back us up. So
we may ed” does Bill.

it your |eﬂ'ef_   0 N S To receiveta free Personal
Anonymous . . Investing Kit, including charges
leﬁers  be   Main StI‘€€t, Lexington and expensesplus our variable
A  h d annuity prospectuses, call us at
pu IS e Upon 1 800 226-0147. Please read them
0 e : 8 . .- . .
approval of the P [I 3 m 6 p m Teresa D8ttOlO, OWHCF carefully before you invest or
Monday-Saturd ay 464-4001 Send money
Executive Edi- . ‘
.r, www.tiaa-cref.org

; tors. (They look
like the rest of Guitars, Amps, PAS, -l l
us but are .

l ll‘ ’ 8;  Ensuring the future
’°°'°l'V °°‘”' DIANA MADSEN sciioiliin   ""°  

   G        h ‘Wt ‘.6 ilvesirris-.l:i:iiri-i

I ., they call "A.P.  _ my til?Em‘:«l’l3£“.'.v2Y.2’.iSill

1 ' - e ”) Ques-  Lexlllgtollt   lei _ e e e it We (M77, Wife  l    pl‘""’ll““*“’““““"“""‘l"'”""“'“““‘”“
I ' Q lilllllle (540) 4lt3_5455  oi.r.::;;::* ...€is:,:;:::.. tc.:=:::i:.s::;:'.. ...°.i::‘.: <::::::...  °"§£.‘.’;f.“.""
  Stai Rating Ntiiillplii stlal_l?.aiiii:i lVllllIIl)l‘Z SllrtllllElltl;l|rlf.El)ngl1Lltll3:3:::"Ol S!atD§:It|ei;g[;r'CI\£:uCllll::l or stnlji:dtlenSgUdNEl,llndltel ol
.\i _.\_,_.t. ~lii]rI)h=’_rll7.'r1IL‘Cl ACC%hlllh[§2%a[ed At_-cot/mtg Rated

. t W" "5 °*4o2- LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BOOKING AVAIL/ABLE: i  _   

ll 4060' It It I, B D] l =l l3 t  l r i;.I'_§  ,. . ﬁll-‘r‘i'i.}‘r3rl>i?L‘.ll.llf..E‘.‘.'.i.l3l7.l$f.1l§lLl."i£il3f.l€"ill$3fI3.‘{.il§7ll3li.‘ffZll~.'?.ll

‘_l —  

 

 

 Solution for b q r| E , gi;<;;;,°:;,;;.,';§, »

. - A . I i m, J  cifirireEe.F°ui:rs i
Ev I-la] drinking drop Hop] ::;f‘;*...".:::°$. /
mes m29.1997 the age to 18 amen’ ,  *

/L-
      As well—intentioned as the new hol abuse but they cannot ignore it,  , "

_ policy of BYOB is, its effective- either. What results is an often-futile .\\ i .5
  nessisdefinitely lacking. Can any- and hodgepodge attempt to bring a ‘C I
one say that they, as result of this degree of control to something that is \ r‘ i
new policy, have decreased their fundamentally uncontrollable. __
It’S hard to call Washington and Lee intake or, even more importantly, So what can be done? Asimple and A
home, when you don’t have 3 house_ Since their desire for such “beverages”? sensible answer is simply to repeal the
1989, womenhavebeen second-class hous- 21'y°a"°td drinking age‘ Utidetage

I-(men the Iﬁft drinking on college campuses would

mg Citizens’ no longer be an issue because no one
This week, the university selected a lo- Laura Knapp ’99 would be«underage_» Honestly, iftho ’ ii

cation for sorority houses. It is now up to i ‘'j‘‘“‘—‘‘'‘ government of the United States en—

rhe Board QfTfusteeS to approve the physi- The situation that has resulted is trusts 18-year-olds with the right and I I
Cal plan of Sorority housing This approval not the faultofa misguided admin— privileges to vote and fight in wars a r I n g I e a g e — O

istration but just signs of a larger then what is the logic in not extending

 
 

will bi? a positive Steip  a t_:am_puSiwhiCh problem — a problem that cannot that same type of responsibility to - it’.

sometimes seems as if it is still fighting the and will not be fixed by any one drinking‘ _

coeducation transition. college administration. ltisaprob- Ifwe are not “old”enough to handle S u e n  m P a I n
Thophiapplaudsthosewhohaveworked lem which lies in the stigma at— our alcohol, how can we be “old”

tached to underage drinking and enough to make decisions and take when lacking ideas for acoiumhi ooiumrrisis at D 3. End the enforcement of the 2-hour parking,

so diligently on the housing issue and call _ , _ . .
the stigma ofthe 2i 'Year‘°id drink‘ actions that Writ have an imPaet ‘ he W&L have a few pet topics they can always fall back limits on city streets for students with W&Lparking

upon the Board of Trustees to finalize the

. . . ing age~ matter how iarge er smaii ‘ en the on. Topics such as the Honor System, student au- Stickers.

measure? m_the1r November meetmg This Prdbiem is n0teXeinsiVet0 endurance Of Our nation? G0Vern‘ tonomy, hazing and how ugly the library is. My Irealizelamprobablypreachingtothechoirwith
Despite its detractors: the success Of the Washington 4 ‘ ment'enr°ree_d fallback topic for the week is parking, or rather, the thissuggestion. Thisisn’tbased merelyon blindself-
sorority housing in the old Delta Tau Delta and Lee by Even though it may [)3 Prohibition did lack thereof. interest (although moving my car at lunch every day
house is proof that Sorority housing can be any means. ho Cress and at times not _W0ri(_t°r the This isnotanew issueat W&L Studentsprobably is annoying.) The two-hour limit is ﬁne for people
It’SafaCt: C0i- p nation in the in whocometotowntoshopatthewidevarietyofshops

a success on this campus. The students

. . . I d ointless it is the res on- 1920-s and it is
living there love it thus far, and the pros- age an p ’ p

drinkin are i i i i . Sim “ineffective  a El.  Metrobexhastooffer.However,moststudentswho
3 sibility of the University

oorne into town spend much more than two hours on .«

 
 

pects for the future are bright. and win 31- for those below Eric Swenseri ’98 the hill. If the school was your job (as it often seems’
The suites rovided for the sororities in waysbeinevi- t0 adhere and enforce the the 21-year-old 'j"'—— tobe), how efficient would itbeto dash outofwork
P . . .
Gaines Hall have never fully met the needs tabiiiy aisoelli laws set by the Common- :”°Sh°td Ittirtiayri °°":iPta'i'ii°d aboutthe piriikingritiienthey god‘: hajrsiirs’ every “:10 mu.“ to move your Cat?
fth h . - -t- __ h- h ate wit eac . . . Of 0nC€,_ In not ran -newsport-uti ity ve ic es,tosc oo . i e _ Besi  think about all thethings we add to the
O 6 “tftgleiilw O Soioilii ‘es W 1C other regard- Wealth of Vlrglnla ” deregulation 0f- iust about everyone on campus agrees about the need cityofLexingtonintermsofliveliness,funand, most
amoun 0 v_V0't tr S O _ 6 women on less of the cir- _ _ fersthe b6StS0iU- formoreparkingspacesanywherenearcampus,there importantly, money. This city wouldbedead with-
C3II1PUS- Having 1313068 WhlCh Can aCC0h'1' edmstanees er r“ies- . _ t'°n- _ _ i is only one slight problem: there is no land available out us, I’ve been here in July, and I almost got
modate 80 plus people will help the sorori- Sewhat Sine P01!" 0i°0"°°1V1"g 3"‘ the 1mPh°3h0"S that i0ii0W within the city of Lexington. Well, duh. Everyone knockedoverby a giant tumbleweed. Anyway, who

and enforcing a Peiiey that is at‘ idwering the drinking age are ex‘ knowsthat. Assumingthatweeliminatesuchradical would the police arrest forbeing drunk in public or

ties with their social functions. . . . .
read)’ deemed t0 tan? EVen thdngh tremei)’ imP°rtant to e°nsrder- with a ideas as paving over the front lawn, no new parking cite for noiseviolations if we weren’there? Students is

Although these houses will not ,haVe a it ma)’ he h°Peiess and at times reiaxatien Of the drinking iawa there will be built at W&L anytime soon. So, to make the pumpplentyofcashintothiscityasitis. Don’tharass
“ art room” or basement the will ro- ' n 1' h ‘bi’ f b t ' 1 - . . .
P y ’- y p Pom essai ‘st e resP°nsr i it)’ 0 must e eenettrren seeia Programs best use of what we have, here are a few simple uswith $10 parking tickets.
vide meal facilities and a common socia1/ the university to adhere and en— initiated for not only college students Suggestions; Uhforruhareiyi those are an the practical ideas 1
meeting Space. force the laws set by the Common- but for much younger children as well. D 1. beam how to park! haVe_ Since 1 sh" have some Space to ﬁn’ here are a 

wealth ofVirginia. lt istrue as well The more and earlier children are in-
that alcohol abuse at W&Lisareal formed of problems that are associ-

few pipe-drearris.

These women will finally have a place TheConalresemblesahighschoolgeometryclass

for their forrnals, their chapter meetings Problem To ignore it with rho atoo with aroohor use and abuse the mostmomings,asrushedormerelylazystudenispull CI 1.Gut the library and turn it intoamulti-deck
and their T11Sh- ho es that it would 0 awa is better the chance of reachin them» "W45degreeanglesmsteadofparkmgpetpendtcutar parking garage’
i’ g y g toth rba90d lf th ht led
Though sorority dues will increase With simply unacceptable and not even before the onset of teenage rebellion. ihehcuh (h I egree aing)e /pirl osieiviilioissrugg D2./X goifoorrforovory Student -r-hiswayiovon r
_ _ .  . Wl I scoo eome . eas o saces. . .
the housing’ the extra cost will be our_ an option. The loss of any present Responsibility and moderation must in the (goomii go fnused glory day because Siuiiiienis if youdoget stuck parking two miles from campus,

or former student as a result of be stressed and a zero tolerance for you’re spared the walk.

weighed by the long-term positive effects pull in at odd angles. And, to help out those who

alcohol abuse is not only a horrible drunken driving must be enforced.

of having a place each Sorority can can its tragedy but a reflection upon our- The notion of “alcohol as a rite of ﬂunked geometry facﬁli 3;i:ini:i:i:S:r:::i:::i§):i::(hF§if:::fi:: 0/fifttiiiii:
0Wh« selves and our institution. passage” must be destroyed. Only D 2- Line the Parking Spaces in the Corral. a mo of running out of Crass to move ihoii Cars 5

This decision, 12 years after the first . Herin liesthe dilemma on which through these changes in the Shelling out cash for white paint to create actual every two houisandamomhofrookingai thegream
female Class arrived at w&L and eight this ‘entire ‘debate rests: college macrosystem can we effect any type parking spaces might make lt.pOSSlbiC forstudents to in Banoi,SeyosaShetowsrheiioaisitheyhcomeup
years after the establishment of the first administrations can not stop alco- of change in our own microcosm. ﬁnd the spaces after the sun rises. with a Solution. Tmsi me.

 

    

   

three sororities, gives women a permanent . . . t’
place on this campus, aplace to call home.  asses and actlvltles _ 
OF THE WEEK great COIIGQB balancing act be mgitum hi
I’m considering chaining W€iC0m€S guest Coiumnsi
. . never seem to have enough time. You’ve prob pursuits and have something to show for it.
rnyﬂf to the  In Iably had the same experience: a calendar full of There is an aspect of rebellion in working for the Phi,  b t t’
due dates, a few heft s llabi and the sixteen tests despite its detractors. lt’s cool to be one ofthe few people YOU are angry a Ou
protest. V Y . .. . 
V your prpifessors scheduied for Wednesday all claim yiviho litiiiowsivhaif flllg-flt4Ii:lPhl rhalilyi means. (/rtihtuaiolyr Something and would 
____J - J H h th irst rig [to your attention, ee 1 oria S a oesn now W a 1 means el er, U » _
un1Orcr:SS(.)iiilg 0: Sn lonmoe we know where it comes from, and we’re determined to t0 gCt 3 public forum fOr h
1 a 6 S * stick to it by stickeri burn!) The hard work is counter— o - ‘
Flnal Vlevv balanced bythecamaraderieofthePhieditorial staff. The your Ideas’ turn In a guest
_ David Balsley ’99 people with whom I worked always made time spent in Colurnn,
 .. . . . th Ph' ff’ t t ' ' .“B b‘ G'l”b A d
- . . ommewmmre .;:.;:::.':.::;'::::.%....::.';.;;:::::;;a .
   There are Sunday nights when the editors get to Therg are three Ways to
Execim.vcEdi.mS Courtney Mm" You may feel that, between your classes, your watch the street cleaners run up and down Washing-
Jason Zach”. extracurricular work and your Greek organization, ton Street, and then there are the Monday mornings gﬁt yOur CO1umn t0 us.
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs you don’t have enough time to get all your work done. when I get to go to a nine-o’clock class with only , .
Asseetate Editor Andre“ Ewing You may be right. three hours of sleep. .      6' ‘C
. I have felt that way recently. It was solely out of I consider the members of the editorial staff to be - -
N Ed! K th M lk , _ _ _ _ _ _
w&,:}:sEd;:o:_: Lia, Dreyriierayum consideration of time that I resigned this week as my friends; it win be hard to not See them on a mall to phl@LUlu.edu,
Tarah Grant Opinion & Editorial Editor of The Ring-tum Phi. regular basis. I have been offered the opportunity to ° ' ' _
0pinion&EditoriaIEditor DavldSBalsley Although I love the job’ I donai have time for it return to rho Phi Starr. rt is an enticing offer, but I      
Sports Editor John tewart - ~ - - , . . . . . .
Copy Editor Crm. wooney Working forthePht can beatoughjob to enjoy. There don t know if liwill be able to accept. it. ” i ‘ box In the Unlvgrslty
Asst. Copy Editor Holly Estes are probably better places to spend your nights. In the meantime, fans of my ‘brilliant editorial _ _
PhozoEdiror Holllster Hovey lt’s frustrating to print outapage ofthe paper, only work will have to put their lives on hold. You may CCntCr Or  It In Our
0"""eEd“0’ T°'“ w“di°“’ to find that you misspelled “anthropomorphism” in be able to content yourselves with the fourth season i “d b 99  th€ L. ,
Business Manager Rebeca Cimy one offyour heﬁidlinpﬁ. Maihy iiieoplie lovedtolgut you ofi‘;ER.”bl liinder(sitani:l/I that] the remaiirliingtepisodes I‘Op OX . yr
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig Own or wot mg ere: as mg on an 6 3C3‘ Wi not e We, 16. T. ooney Wl no mess up - .
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown demic faculty included. The work is hard, but it’s also any more lines). Of course, watching TV won’t help drlve on Jefferson‘
Asst Advertising Editor Stew“ Kim! rewarding. lt’s thrilling to put a lot of time into your you find more time. lt’s a vicious tetrahedron,
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the ‘

undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee 'k
University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Rlng- . .

tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and sub- I   .  has been your Impression Of  SO far?

scriptlon revenues. The Washington and Lee Publlca- t .

tlons Board elects the Executive Editor and Business  .. i V ..

Manager. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent. 3 T

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub- ’

missions and letters. All subrnlsslons must be in the

Phi office. room 208 of the University Center. by noon

on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-

tum Phi reserves the right to edit sumblsslons {or ht
content and length. Letters. columns. and “My Views"

do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Edito-

rial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of

The Rlng-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes

current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity. N.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Oﬁlce Box 899 . . ,
Lexington‘ Virginia 24450 “There ’s no trouble getting beer at “Beer ﬂows freely for females. " “BYOB = M]. P. ” “lm against it, but it ’s working out.
Telephone: (540) 462-4060 fi'“ter.’tir)’ houses I worry that people would start i
Fax: i540) 4624059 ~—Sarah Healherington '00 —J.C. Waldron and gctziizg excluded though.”
E'mah= Phi@Wh1~ed“ ——F1oyd Stimpson '00 Rich Balzer '00 ——Jessica Helm ’00

 

