.4

4'7

A

lN&iLlFE

Y

.51

V

- Fm ‘
A  <. 7" '~‘:
1' Q__'~ '._M*x K‘. 
t>—-9L” x_'- .32
PO‘ ‘I "~"

PAGE 3

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 18

The one act plays next weekend
promise sex, Violence and much more.

JAMS 6. LBVBUHN LIBRARY

"“5*W»‘II‘:t't.“‘T

ON, VA M490

HAR27‘%

& ms in-avaasm

SPORTS

PAGE 4

Jared Fribush placed 12th at
NCAA’s, women’s lacrosse
assumes Control of the ODAC
and baseball loses to Mary
Washington.

U112 ilting-tum {ﬂirt 

Kelley Totten disproves
the common
misperoeption that
watching Fox TV is bad
for your health.

PAGE 6

Bulk Rate
US Postage

MARCH 23, 1998

Students, locals
nabbed at police
DUI checkpoint

 A City, County and State police
roadblock caught Saturday night

drivers unaware; about 40 were
charged with drunken driving.

BY WILL HARDIE

News EDITOR

N A About 40 motorists were charged with drunk driv-

ing at a police roadblock on Route 11 in East Lex-
ington Saturday night.

State police drafted in extra officers from Lexing-
ton and Rockbridge County police departments to run
the checkpoint.

Virginia Military Institute cadet Ryan Weisiger was
arrested and charged with DUI at 11:51. Washington and
Lee students Megan Mulligan and Robert Tucker were
both charged with reckless driving and DUI, though not
at the checkpoint.

VMI cadets face a minimum punishment of a year’s
barracks conﬁnement if found guilty of DUI, and could be
suspended for a year or expelled. W&L students face social
and conduct probation and 20 hours’ community service.

Junior J .R. Leitch was among the many W&L students
who made it through the roadblock. “I think it’s good to have
DUI checkpoints,” he said. “But it’s pretty nerve-racking even
if you haven’t been drinking.”

Senior Milagros Daly was also stopped. “I thought they
were polite,” she said, “[but] the whole idea makes me un-
comfortable because they are just stopping them without
suspicion. But I understand the need for it.”

Daly also said she thought the police could have cho-
sen a more effective location on a quiet country road. This
is the third checkpoint police have set up in Lexington
this year. Previous ones were located on Nelson Street
outside Harris Teeter, and on Route 11 at Cameron Hall.

' Police must apply in advance for approval for a check-

point, which must be targeted at a specific type of driving
offense. Saturday’s roadblock targeted alcohol; others
have focused on vehicle defects.

According to Lexington Police Officer Keith Haraway,
checkpoints are intended both to catch drunk drivers and
to deter potential offenders. Haraway said he hopes sober
people pulled over at the checkpoint will think twice be-
fore drinking and driving in the future. He said that their
reasoning might be, “If I decide to drink and drive, they’ 11
be sitting here next time.”

Haraway said that the stiff DUI penalties have suc-
ceeded in deterring people from drinking and driving. “1
have noticed a reduction in DUIs in recent years, and we’re
glad for that,” he said. He also attributed that reduction to
cooperation between police and the Interfratemity Coun-
cil, and to the Live Drive sober driving program at W&L.

N I G H T  L  C  as Senior Nate Taylor, a Hopper Genie, performs at the store on

celebrate the release of their CD. It will be available within a few weeks. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Some W&L students think drinking age should be 18

Va. creates binge drinking task force

BY SARAH MELDRUM
““““‘j‘ STAFF WRITER
arlier this school year, five
Virginia college students
died within a month be-
cause of alcohol. One fell from a
dorm window, one appears to
have fallen down stairs and three
died in drunk driving accidents.

Students and administrators
have been paying a lot more at-
tention to campus drinking since
then. Members ofthe public have
clamored for action.

Some have even suggested
lowering the legal drinking age to
18 to take away the rebellious appeal
of alcohol for college freshmen.

Now, the attorney general’s of-
fice has created a task force to study
binge drinking and suggest ways of
changing a collegiate culture.

“I do not believe that lower-
ing the drinking age is an appro-
priate, viable or beneficial public
policy. So, let us take that off the
table right now,” Virginia’s Attor-
ney General Mark Earley said in
a speech March 9.

That speech launched his Task
Force on Drinking By College Stu-
dents. Initiated by former Attorney
General Richard Cullen, the task
force will study the negative effects
of binge drinking and should make
recommendations on how to ad-
dress binge drinking.

Sophomore Kappa Alpha Christian
Batcheller supports the promotion.

“I think that kids drink any-
way; ifthey want to, they will do
it,” he said. “When you’re trying
to hide the problem with a 21
drinking age, it makes it more
dangerous.”

Sophomore Chi Psi Stephen
Hopkins also thinks that the
drinkiung age should be lowered
to 18.

“If you’re old enough to live on
your own, you are old enough to
make decisions about alcohol.”

Death is the most drastic and
well publicized consequences of
collegiate drinking, but it is far
from the most common.

Earley cited a nationwide study
done by the National Center on
Addiction and Substance Abuse at
Columbia University, which
found that alcohol plays a role in
more than 40 percent of academic
problems and in 28 percent of col-
lege and university dropouts.

Earley said that the task force will
hold team meetings and public hear-
ings throughout the state to hear from
the public about binge drinking, and
to build strong community support for
its work.

The 44 members of the task
force are divided into four teams,
each of which has specific ques-
tions to consider. The members

include university and college of-
ficials, students, business leaders,
parents, citizens and Elizabeth
McClanahan, Esquire, Chair-
woman of the State Council of
Higher Education.

Earley hopes the task force will
lead discussion to produce what
he calls common sense solutions
to change the culture of binge
drinking on campuses.

The task will not be easy. Some
students fail to take advantage of
the academic and character build-
ing opportunities.

For them, Earley said, “college
is one endless party void of any
sense of personal responsibility or
self-discipline.”

Earley wants to promote talks
among students, educators, par-
ents, public leaders and citizens
to find ways to change the alco-
hol-laden culture on many college
and university campuses.

A State Council ofHigher Edu-
cation survey found that 38 per-
cent of students at four-year
schools in Virginia engage in
binge drinking.

A college alcohol study done
by the Harvard School of Public
Health in 1993 found that “being
white, involved in athletics, or a
resident of a fraternity or soror-
ity made it more likely that a stu-
dent would be a binge drinker.”

Batcheller disagrees with the
national statistic.

“I know plenty of white, male,
fraternity members who don’t
drink,” he said. Bathcheller, who
plays football and baseball thinks
the same goes for athlete drinking.

“I seem to think that drinking is
more widespread and it doesn’t have
to do with athletes in particular.”

Senior Ericka Shapard, a white so-
rority member involved in athletics has
mixed feelings regarding the statistic.

“The high rate of white drink-
ing doesn’t surprise me as much
as the athlete drinking,” she said.
“But the fact that athletes drink more
on a national level surprises me.”

Earley said the way to combat
binge drinking is to change the
collegiate culture in Virginia. He
said he hoped the task force will
“dismantle the culture of binge
drinking and replace it with com-
mon sense.”

So far the task force has met
only once, at its kickoff. The first
task force team will meet and hold
a public hearing at Longwood
March 31.

After six more meetings, in-
cluding a national symposium on
campus alcohol practices, the task
force is expected to present its fi-
nal recommendations to Earley.

Andrea Ewing contributed to
this article.

Housekeeping
makes things
messy for SNu

 When Dean Atkins arrived at Sigma
Nu on Monday morning, he said he
found two ﬂoors of the house covered
with eggs, bird seed and what looked
like cake icing.

BY WILL HARDIE

NEWS EDITOR

All five Sigma Nu pledges worked through the night
of Sunday, March 15 to clean up the disaster zone their
fraternity brothers had left them. But by moming the mess
was still so bad that buildings and grounds workers re-
treated in disgust.

“They had smashed eggs and thrown bird seed all over
the hallways on the second and third ﬂoors, and there was
what looked like cake icing slung around there too. It was
a mess,” said Associate Dean of Students Leroy Atkins,
who was called in to witness the scene.

“It was a little excessive,” Sigma Nu President Dari
Hendricks conceded last night. “It was a rough weekend.”

The Interfratemity Council gave Sigma Nu a week
of social probation, to allow the house judicial board
to find the culprits and decide on punishments.
Hendricks will report the results of that investigation
at tonight’s IFC meeting.

“Obviously this kind of vandalism is unacceptable,”
said IF-C President Jason Callen. “It came as a surprise to
the IFC — the Sigma Nu leadership has been strong, and
it was disappointing to see them slip up.

“I am hoping Dan is going to come in and say what the
house has done to punish the individuals who did this,”
said Callen. Previous vandalism incidents have been pun-
ished by several weeks of social probation and a ﬁne of
150 percent of the cost of repair. “There is no strict for-
mula, but we are expecting something along those lines,”
Callen said.

The “hell week” of intense pledge activity leading up
to initiation is supposed to be a cathartic bonding experi-
ence, but the Sigma Nu pledges faced a colossal task. “This
was the worst I have ever seen,” said Callen. B&G work-
ers were “working overtime” through the week to scrub
out egg-yolk stains on the walls, Callen said.

When asked whether the pledges had been given an
unreasonable task, Hendricks said, “It would have been
hard to get it all done. I don’t know if it was impossible.”

Director of Buildings and Grounds Scott Beebe said

Saturday to that it was absolutely unacceptable for B&G workers to

{D SEESIGMAPAGEZ

R “ raaai..s.a. :ran;

, .Yo’u‘ want toydiﬁit 
, ipyouire scared, bixtfﬁiend ‘

V .¢hatIt,§jYou{ii loveit,,you’1llove 
 ,they-chant; Gripping tliegseat with;
I sWeatypalms,you screaniandiyour 7 ’

heart plummets to your  You are
now ready for the Volcano. ‘ ”

I iiamnmsuspendeasin

  Wiﬂ}:_1§g3.idéns1inglﬁ°¢{. f
jnthe iicartofthe  '

3A: .speedsH»up tp';7o’mf.;§1ii,,,
' . ’ energy‘ sendsithe.

For some students, this expen'-H 

M A ence couldbelindulging inga forbid-I
  den volcano at Hanan But

forthose  atlieﬁart,tti’e new
rol1erAooastér'atParairiouiit’s,Ki,ngi’s

Dominion mightbetheﬁrstxandlbest-I
. quick ﬁx.for,Spring  ,King.’,s

Dominion starts its season Saturday, A

March 23 with $25 million /worth”

of new attractions.

According to someiW8tLl’stu“ I

dents, thenew attractions at

King’s Dominion were fa ‘long?

time coming.

“King’s Dominion  sornciar-i
eas that are run down,”‘said_ junior‘

Erika Woodson. “The old area,
Hanna Barbarra Land, iskind of

don’t get rid of old stuff.”

The principil attraction is the
world’s first suspended roller
coaster powered by linear induc-
tion, meaning that the Volcano
will utilize electromagnetic en-
ergy to blast straight out of the

enter.iloi’fthe’cra er: The;

‘en,follow,si1i§’ﬁi*stoffourheai1:‘o5llg
,circ1iii"g bacl<”.at‘ou:rid§the i
ioiniy§iiui‘b¢1foir¢“.dmppin7s- an°*h°f
0.3-:;»,i. ‘nd-jreturning to the I

pfecial‘ lerieas "andfa muflti-‘ ,
midi , /6,1316 experience end this

o§n1iriute~ride‘, in an attempt to

[r’e"create the experience of being
A ‘thrust fromga volcano. ,
1  ‘A Other new. attractions in-
grade James Bond 007: License

to Thrill and Nicktoons Block

.-“Party. , 
delapidated. They add new stuff but —

» Regular priced ticketsxiarc
$31.99, a little pricey for starvg,’

ing students. However, coupons ~

good for $8 off are available at
Burger King’. 7 A ’

Information from this article
was taken from a King ’siDomin-
ion news release. ’

  

 23, 1998

 SIGMA

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

be expected to clean up such a mess.
Sigma Nu was given a pledge
violation for keeping its pledges
in the house overnight, so their
pledgeship ended on Monday.

technically.” What does that mean?
“There are some technicalities we
need to resolve.” What technicalities?
“These are not matters I want to dis-
cuss outside the chapter,” Hendricks
said.

If the pledges have not been fully
initiated, Sigma Nu may face further
IFC sanctions.

Because oftheir social probation,

PAGE 2

I1€WS

ATTENTION COLLEGE SENIORS: WHAT DO
I DO NEXT?

Be a live—in onanny for UVA professors’ family for
one year, starting August 1. Regular weekday
schedule, generous salary, paid vacations and
holidays, health insurance, free room and board,

- I
pit stop _u_
take Cl broke
from the race I

The deadline for pledge initia-
tion was yesterday, and it is un-
clear whether the Sigma Nu
pledges initiated in time.

“They are no longer pledges,”
said Hendricks. Does that mean
they have initiated? “They have,

Sigma Nu had to cancel a perfor-
mance by the band “Right On,” which
had been scheduled for Saturday
night. The band had already been paid
for, so they played instead at a pri-
vate house on Route 39, owned by
non—Sigma Nu members.

own spacious living quarters (with bathroom and
seperate entrance), all utilities, summer pool
membership, privacy, respect. Non-smokers, good
drivers, college graduates or students only.

Call 804-924-7815 or e-mail aw2b@virginia.edu.

Going home or just taking a trip up/down I-81,
stop in at Mint Springs Pit Stop (Exit 217-EXXON)
Purchase Sgallons or more of gas, show college ID
receive free 20 oz coffee, cappuccino, or fountain drink

Admissions Counselor

The W & L Admissions Ofﬁce is now
accepting applications for a possible
admissions counselor position. All
interested graduating seniors should
submit a cover letter and resume no
later than Wednesday,
March 25, 1998 to
Julia M. Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions
Office of Admissions

U.8.NllW§

Fred Drasner
Chief Executive Officer

   

from

(L)

Dear Student:

one grade. One roll of the dice to measure your performance.

school, they should certainly be an important part of the analysis.

issue of the magazine to help you manage your life.
Good luck in law school and good luck on making the right choice.
Kindest Regards.

Sincerely,

” Shipping and linmlliiig tlmrges tultlitional.

1290 Avenue of the Americas, Suite 600, New York, NYil0104l,_  -

Lexington, Virginia

New Management and Renovations

Econo Lodge

Accommodations:
'48 Attractive Guest Rooms

°Color Cable TV - free ESPN and HBO

‘King Beds and/or Two Double Beds

‘Scenic Mountain Views from your Room

‘Non-Smoking Rooms Available

°Free Continental Breakfast: Free Local Phone Calls

‘Restaurants within Walking Distance

Attractions:

‘Natural Bridge ——\ 1.6 inilesgg
‘Virginia Military Institute
‘Washington & Lee University
°Virginia Horse Center

'Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

An Open Letter to Students
Planning to Attend Law School

U.S.News & World Report

DON’T YOU JUST HATE TO BE GRADED? Well, by their shrill protests about U.S.News & World Report law school
rankings, so do most of the deans of the law schools you are considering. However, as a law school graduate with both a
].D. and a LLM. degree, I can tell you that these same deans will subject you to rigorous grading. You will be required
to endure lectures from tenured professors who have not changed their class notes since the Battle of Hastings. Then,
after attending Class for a full semester, you will be given one exam to determine your grade. One exam, one semester,

At Ll.S.News & World Report we are far more equitable (to use a legal term). We have a multifaceted, multi-
dimensional, sophisticated ranking system developed and evolved over many years to give you guidance on what
may be one of your largest financial investments and certainly one of the most important choices for your career in
law and perhaps beyond. While our law school rankings should not be the only criteria in your choice of a law

Get your copy of Ll.S.News & World Reports Best Graduate Schools guide on newsstands now. Or, to make it easier for
you to see the book that 164 law school deans would prefer you not see (notwithstanding their commitment to the First
Amendment), call l-800/836-6397 (ask for extension 5105) and I will arrange for a copy of the book to be sent directly
to you at $1 off the newsstand price.* This will also ensure that you have a copy of these important rankings because, as
a result of publicity surrounding the deans’ determination to have you ignore the rankings, they are a very hot item.

These law school rankings are a small part of our philosophy of News You Can Lise”: information we bring you in each

 

Econo

Location: ,
At I-64 and U.S.l1

RR 7 Box 81
Lexington, VA 24450
703-463-7371
Toll-Free Reservations
1-800-424-4777

to Roanoke ~1«

 

ft‘

 

 

MARCH 23, 1998

 

RYAN TRUAX ANDTIM CLEARY bring
violence to the Johnson stage with “Gladiators. "
Pl/l3I.I( '11)’ PHOTO

BRIAN PRISCO, Gordon Meeker, Danica Oliver,
Patrick Driscoll and Eric Zavolinsky chat in
“Businessman ’s Lunch. " Pi/13u(fr1rPHo'1o

ERIN MU LLAN EY, Colin Tate and Drew Higgs
. deal with their insecurities in the one-act
V “Impromptu. ”P(/H1.1('1ir PH()’l‘()

A JOSH CARPENTER and Francis Mc Williams
find solutions to their problems in
"Philadelphia. " Pl/BI.I(7l'IY Pnoro

W&life

PAGE 3

The seven plays opening this weekend for the annual

Festival of One Act plays have it all.

The One Acts are ﬁlled with fun and drama, and the short
length of each play allows the audience to watch multiple
plots unfold without having to wait for hours and hours.
Each one-act play has its own unique style, and the best part
about the series is that it is a result of all of the hard work
done by students. The Theatre Department’s directing class
chooses and directs the plays in which actors both old and
new to the Lenfest Stage perfonn.

The plays are perfomied
on two separate bills. Bill A,
which includes the plays “Im-
promptu,” “Businessman’s
Lunch,” “Here We Are” and
“Gladiator” will be performed
on March 26 at 8 p.m. and
March 28 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.
“The Love Talker,” “The Phila-
delphia” and “Ramie,” which
comprise Bill B, will be per-
fonned on March 27 at 8 p.m.,
on March 29 at 2 p.m. and on
March 31 at 8 p.m.

Seduction. Disappointment. Hilarity. Violence. Paranoia.

Of

IMPDOMDIU is “raw, and
even terrifying,” according to

a preview

this play, the actors them-
selves play actors, and its
effect is quite interesting to
see. “Impromptu” is about
every actor’s worst night-
mare —— being on stage with-
out a clue as to why or what
to say. “The actors are
stranded up there with noth-
ing more than their own in-
securities,” said Adams. “Im-
promptu” stars Erin Multaney, Colin Tate and Drew Higgs.

bUS|llfSS/‘\ﬂll'S lUllCl1 is a comedy about corporate
America. “It’s also perfect for W&L,” said director Wes
Armstrong, “a school that prepares so many students for
the corporate world, often failing to mention what this world
is really like.” Actors include Brian Prisco, Gordon Meeker,
Danica Oliver, Patrick Driscoll and Eric Zavolinsky.

llfl?f Wf lll?f takes place in the l930’s in a Pullman
traincar. John Bubb and Cassie Ritter play a newly mar-
ried couple who realize that they don’t have as much in
common as they thought. “Dorothy Parker uses her wit
and humor to show how men and women relate, and as a
commentary on relationships in general,” said director
Megan Johnson. She hopes those in attendance will be

by
Ginger
Phillips

AAAAAAAAAAAA

ffSl|Vﬂl

director Shelley Adams. In - :   E

VVVVVVVVVVVV

as impressed as she by her “wonderful cast" of Cassie
Ritter and John Bubb.

lllf OlﬂD|lllOP is an unusual play about a lifetime
convict and his “warped” behavior. “The play does con-
tain violence,” said T.W. Leshner, director. “Consider-
ing that a person cannot turn on the TV without seeing
much the same thing, I think it’s valuable to try and
understand the motives which underlie violent behav-
ior.” Ryan Truax and Tim Cleary star in “The Gladiator."

lllf lOVf llllltfl? is a story rooted in myth and legend
about an ‘evil spirit that seduces men into insanity deep
within the backwoods of
Virginia. “It appealed to
me because it is so
twisted from the norm,"
said director Matthew
Kirby-Smith. “The evil in
the forest is personiﬁed
in the Love Talker, an im-
mortal spirit that has
driven men insane and to
their deaths for ages."
The cast of this play in-
cludes An Wise, Justine
Moncrief, Matt Clymer.
and Susannah Carr.

In lllf Dll|lﬂDflDlllﬁ

Francis McWilliams
stars as Mark, at man
who is having a terrible
day. He consults his
friend Al, played,by
Josh Carpenter, about a
solution. “Although
the premise is very cl-
ementary, the actual
situation is ridiculous,“
said Alyssa Sellers.
Also starring in “The
Philadelphia” is Erika VanHelden.

l2lllI‘lli should also prove to be an interesting play.
Its plot involves Wes, a white college strident, who
meets Raimie, a black woman whom he remembers
from his childhood. Writer/director Alex Christensen
believes that the Wes and Raimie’s “conversation
and its consequences” make the play a compelling
event to watch. This one act stars Jason Miller and
Sybil Prince.

So now that you’re intrigued, make sure that you
see some, or even all, ofthese amazing short plays.
Tickets are not required for these performances. and
since the one acts are always a popular event at W& L,
plan to arrive at Lenfest early to snag your seat.

Support the National Conirnitteeito
prevent child abuse Project Horizon

  

Shamroclt
Project

Basketball
Tournament

Sunday March 29
1 pm. Warner Center
Ask any Kappa Delta For details

I Mayo Island proudly hosts a series of random concerts through out the sum-

 

mer known as the 

MAYO ISLAND CONCERT SERIES
To BENEFIT FEED THE FUTURE

The first concert in this series will be 

Sundav, llnril 20th, 1098
2:00 - 7:00 PM
0n Mata Island

(|nttienmana,Va.)

  

g I

with special guest T.B.A.

tickets $lll.llll

0n Sale Right Now At All Ticketmaster taeatians
0r cnatae ltll Phone at 004-2020100

All Ages Events Kids 6 and Under are Free -— Rain or Shine —
No Dogs or Coolers

Event intaimatian 004-043-0001 0t
www.mavaisIantl.aam

MAYO ISLAND IS LOCATED ON THE 14TH STREET BRIDGE IN DOWNTOWN
RICHMOND, VA LIMITED PARKING IS AVAILABLE ON THE ISLAND ADDI-
TIONAL PARKING IS AVAILABLE IN STREETS AND LOTS THROUGH OUT
SHOCKOE SLIP /SHOCKOE BOTTOM A FREE SHUTTLE TO THE ISLAND MAY BE
PICKED UP AT THE CORNER OF 15TH ST. AND MAIN STREET IN FRONT OI’ SEA
BREEZE CAFE.

 

 

PAGE 4

Fribrush
finishes
12th at

NCAA’s

Washington and Lee sophomore
Jared Fribush earned honorable men-
tion All-America honors after placing
12111 in the 50-yard freestyle at the
NCAA Division III Swimming and Div-
ing Championships at the St. Peter's
Rec Plex on Thursday night.

Fribush matched his career-best
time of2l.15 seconds to post the 12th
place ﬁnish. He swam a time of2l.25
seconds in the morning qualiﬁer and
was seeded 16th heading into the
consolation ﬁnals, and shaved a tenth
ofa second off his time to move up
four spots.

Fribush also placed 31st inthe 200-
yard freestyle in a time of 1:47.89, and
38th in the l00—yard freestyle in a time
of48. 13.

—from staﬂ reports

Dorofeeva
Wins at
Roanoke

Junior Natasha Dorofeeva won the
1,500 meter run in a time of 5:01 to lead
Washington and Lee’s women’s track
team at the Roanoke Invitational. W&L
also placed second in the distance
medley relay and got third place fin-
ishes from Meredith Mylnar in the jav-
elin and Lauren McKeever in the 800.

McI(eever’s outlook for the season
is optimistic: “It’s been a great season
so far. There’s a really positive, fun
atmosphere among my teammates.
We‘re looking foward to a challeng-
ing meet against Mary Washington
next weekend.” When _asked about
Dorofeeva’s success, McKeever re-
marked: “Natasha’s an amazing run-
ner. She’s so versatile. Usually, she runs
the 800. Her victory in the 1500 show
just how talented she is.”

— from staff reports

Baseba

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
 PORTS WRITER
s they often say in baseball, a
walk is as good as a hit. This
roved true for Mary Wash-
ington College yesterday afternoon as
the Eagles used 11 Washington and
Lee walks by seven different pitchers
to down the Generals 10-3 in a
nonconference battle in
Fredericksburg.
The loss dropped the Generals to 4-6
on the season as W&L ended up 1-1
for the week.

Mary Washington jumped out to a
5-0 lead before the Generals came
charging back with three iuns in the
top of the sixth inning including an
RBI-single by sophomore

Christian Batchellor and a pinch-
hit two run single by junior E.J.

   

MARCH 23, 1998

  
 
    
    
  

 

 1 ;DRII.LED.'..
Q, guniorilférré Wéwbburn
.  an_ace_pgst his » _

  
 

  

néznningilieays foltowingi
a" 7-0. shutout qj:Ripon g

 

Women’s tennis annihilates

Lynchburg and Roanoke

BY FRANCES GROBERG
-—TOPINioNs EDITOR

e women’s tennis team made
short work of their opponents
this week, improving their sea-

son record to 1 1-3.

On Saturday against Mary Wash-
ington, the Generals defeated the
Eagles by a score of 9-0. All ofthe
Generals posted wins, including
Ericka Shapard, Brooke Hartzell,
Berry Blankinship, Erin Eggers,

Christina Campbell and Anne
Castello in singles, and Blankinship/
Shapard, Hartzell/Eggers and
Campbell/Castello in doubles.

The squad, split between
Lynchburg and Roanoke on Thurs-
day, defeated both teams 9-0.

Wins were recorded at Roanoke
in singles by Hartzell, Eggers,
Campbell, Castello, Brumby and Bell,
and in doubles by Eggers/Hartzell,
Campbell/Castello and Bell/Brumby.

I walks to a loss

Murphy. That was the closest the
Generals got, however, as MWC
went on to outscore the Generals 5-
0 in the final three innings to cap-
ture the victory.

“It was a tough day to play base-
ball and our pitchers just had a rough
day,” said junior catcher E.J. Murphy.
“They pitched us out of some tough
jams, but the weather defenitley af-
fected us”

“Wejust didn’t play well,” added
junior second baseman Parick Hall.
“It’s easy to blame things on the
weather. It was a factor, but we have
to take responsibility for our play.”

On Tuesday afternoon at Smith
Field the Generals’ bats came alive
as W&L pounded out 13 hits on the
way to a 8-4 victory over the Bees.

The Generals had six doubles,

including three by E.J. Murphy, who
went 3-5 on the day.

The Bees had 13 hits oftheir own
but they were all singles.

Errors also played a big role in the
ball game. A total of eleven errors were
committed in the game: four by
Savanah A&D and seven by W&L.

Freshman Josh Glober picked up
the win to go to 2-0 on the season as
he pitched the first innings and allowed

. no earned runs.

Chris Stakem moved over from his
ﬁrst base position to pitch the ﬁnal
three innings and earn the save for the
Generals.

Savanah A&D is managed by
former Boston Red Sox pitcher Louis
Tiant, who was seen signing a few
autographs for various Generals play-
ers and fans after the game.

THE BASEBALL TEAM claimed their fourth victory last Tuesday against Savannah A&D by a score of 8-4. This

weekend, on a cold day in F redricksburg, the Generals lost I0-3 against Mary Washington, bringing their season

record to 4-6.

H()1.l.lSTI;‘R Ho VEY/PHOZD EDI-10R».

The team dropped only four games
to Roanoke.

At Lynchburg, Shapard, Laura
Schramm, Mina Guiahi, Elizabeth
Gay, Ashley Buck and Ann Richard
all recorded singles victories.

In doubles, wins were posted by
Shapard/Guiahi, Hays/Schramm and
Buck/Gay.

Next for the Generals is yet another
split team effort on Saturday at Guilford
and at Bridgewater.

i-‘ 0 R 1/...-

and related fields.

I’. I) L.‘ C A T I () N

hen it comes to planning a comfort-

able future, Americas best and
brightest turn to the expert: TIAA-CREF.
With over $200 billion in assets under
management, were the world's largest
retirement system, the nation's leader in
customer satisfaction‘? and the overwhelin-

ing choice of people in education, research,

Expertise You Can Count On

For 80 years, TIAA-CREI7 has introduced
intelligent solutions to Americas long-term
planning needs. We pioneered the portable
pension, invented the variable annuity. and
popularized the very concept of stock investing
for retirement. In fact, we manage the largest

stock account in the world.

Women’s lax
wins two, takes
control of ODAC

BY JASON ZACHER
T-— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team took control of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference this
week, beating two top conference op-
ponents. Lynchburg College fell 13-9
on Wednesday and Randolph-Macon
fell 8-6 on Sunday.

Going into Sunday’s game, W&L
(7-0, 5-0 ODAC) was tied with
Randolph-Macon atop the ODAC.
Randolph-Macon’s (4-2, 4-1 ODAC)
victory over Roanoke College last
week set up the showdown. The game
was played at R-MC on Sunday after
rain in Ashland, Va., caused the game
to be postponed on Saturday.

Sophomore attack Katherine
Riddle and senior defender Betsy
Howe each scored two goals Sunday
to lead the Generals. Seniors Mary Jo
Mahoney, Lorraine Taurassi and
Whitney Parker also scored one goal
each. Freshman attack Liz Borges
added a goal and two assists, bring-
ing her team—leading point total to 25.

Randolph-Macon scored the ﬁrst
goal less than two minutes into the
game, but the Generals scored four un-
answered goals from the 16:28 to the
9:31 mark, taking a 5-3 lead at halftime.
R-MC would come within one on two
other occasions, but could not man-
age to score the tying goal. Randolph-
Macon’s Carrie Winker scored all three
of her goals in the first half.

The two-goal margin held up
through the second half, behind strong
play by the defense. Despite W&L’s
trouble with the transition game, the
defense held RM-C to only 15 shots
on goal. Sophomore goalie Ginny
Jemigan continued her strong season,
making nine saves. '

“The defense was awesome today,”
said Borges. “We lost the ball often in
transition, but the defense kept
Randolph-Macon from capitalizing.”

Jemigan commended her defense
after the game.

“In every crucial situation, they

R I‘) S If A R C

a It 4)

 

OVER ONE MILLION OF
THE BEST MINDS IN
AMERICA HAVE ALREADY
CHOSEN THE BEST
RETIREMENT SYSTEM.

TIAA-CREF.

Today. TIAA-CREI’ can help you

achieve even more ofyour financial goals.

think alike.

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-crel'.org

...
u A A
0' Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.
-1097 I)/\l.l5/\I< I)L‘lIl\L'(I cmu..i...mt.. i-:\.iIl.-...t- R......5. 11..., |v‘»lll)lll\.llli£ |\ ..., 5.....»..mi. ..i i..u..-.- .~.....l.... Cltlil’ lt’lliII\i|lC> .....l lIVIL*lk'.\l\

in the Tim RL‘;.Il i-xi IlL' ‘\A.tnllI\l (tl’(' .I....-.l...i..I 1., ‘l'l\.\—Cl{I1l‘ln.ln.i!...il.m.| i......i.........l s. l\l\«‘~ i'...~ IHHIL‘ t4)IIl|III'Ii \IVl|ilII\.tIl(iIl, m. I...l..,;_v

(Il;|r‘g(‘s .mil L'X'IL‘H.\t'>. Kxlll 1 Run X-1'1-27.3.3. mi-.,...... =..=.n<J, 1... ill.-,1...-,..-.1...“ i<,»...1 111.11. ...,~i~i.lII_, Ilrllill ,.,...,.,.-.1.” .1-.,.1.n.n..-_\. W 2, us

From tax-deferred annuities and IRAs
to mutual funds, you'll find the flexibility
and choice you need, backed by a proven
history of performance. remarkably low
expenses. and peerless commitment to
personal service.
Find Out For Yourself
To learn more about the world's

premier retirement organization, talk to
one oi‘ our retirement planning experts
at I 800 842-2776 (8 a.m.—ll p.m. HT).
Or better still, speak to one oliyour
colleagues. Find out why, when it comes

to planning for tomorrow. great minds

made a big play,” Jemigan said. “They
played so wonderﬁilly; I couldn’t have
asked for anything more from them.”

The Generals’ 7-0 start is the best
since 1993, when they opened 9-0 en
route to an NCAA tournament bid.

Wednesday, the Generals exacted
revenge on Lynchburg College 13-9.
Lynchburg handed the Generals their
first loss of the season last year.

W&L jumped out to an early 3-0
lead, but Lynchburg fought back. At
the twelve-minute mark in the first half,
the game was tied 3-3. The Generals
owned the rest of the half, outscoring
the Hornets 6-1. Lynchburg pulled to
11-9 with only 3:32 remaining in the
game, but Parker scored two goals to
put the game away.

Parker, last week’s ODAC Player
of the Week, finished the game with
four goals to lead the Generals.
Borges and Riddle chipped in three
goals each. Taurassi scored two and
junior midfielder Lauren Francis
added one goal.

The women will spend this week
playing two non-conference matches
before next week’s conference show-
down against Roanoke. Colby College
comes to town on Thursday for a 4
p.m. game, and on Saturday, Mary
Washington heads to Lexington at 2
p.m. W&L beat both schools by a com-
bined score of 30-8 last season.

“We can’t take them lightly,” Howe
said. “Both are very good teams. They
have been very challenging in the past.”

 lacrosse  
ijgame postponed

,  ;jfI‘lie in_ei_i’s lacrosse team’s

, .g_an_1e, against, Franklin ,&
‘Maféhali  postponed due to ' ’

‘n5W on Stindayft,At press‘t'ime,.
 no niake-up date has ibeeniset.‘ 

 The men were ranked sev-

enth inthe latest STX/USILA

" Division III poll. after beating

Gettysburg last week.

 

 
 
  

H C()i\IMUNITY

‘I’

‘I’

1'

I

._-——..

 

‘l
l

4

V

0

PAGE 5- 0

ion
rial

MAR. 23, 1998

Don’t hide behind

‘anonymous letters

Editorial commentaries are meant to be
questioned, objected to and argued over. They

‘ are simply opinion — the opinion of the writer.

'4.

If an editorial bothers a reader, he
shouldn’t hesitate to tell the paper. The
Ring-tum Phi encourages letters, but if a
reader wants an argument to hold weight, he
must admit authorship.

Anonymous personal attacks against writers
and cartoonists are not taken seriously. The
Phi columnists put their names and reputation
on the line every time they write. The same
standard should and does apply to any reader
wishing to voice complaints.

The staff editorial (what you are reading
now) does not have a name because it repre-
sents the collective opinion of the Phi staff. As

I_ with most daily newspapers, the Phi does not
I print the name of the individual who writes the

editorial, since each week a different staff
member writes it.

The Phi requires that at least one staff
member know the identity of an anonymous
letter writer. The editors then decide whether
or not a valid reason exists for the writer to
remain anonymous. ‘

If an individual takes the time to write or
call the paper, he should at least attach his
name. Students should feel conﬁdent in voic-
ing ideas in a public forum. ’

Do not hide behind pseudonyms or Greek
letters. Be brave enough to face any contro-
versy that might arise. Make people think.
That’s what columnists do.

All opinion is not serious. Our columnists
have funny bones, and so do our cartoonists.
Lighten up, you’ll live longer. ,

Remember, no one is forcing readers to read
anything the Phi prints.

If a reader disagrees, or doesn’t like an

, opinion, he can always stop reading. No skin

off our backs.

/"N

C C
‘note of the week:

When there’s grain and
booty involved, everything
changes.

— Anonymous sophomore the
morning after St. Patrick’s Day

77

flip: ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Kathryn Mayurnik

Andrea Ewing

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor
w& life Editors

Will Hardie

Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Frances Groberg
John Stewart
Polly Doig

Will Hardie
Hollister Hovey
Tom Wadlow

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Jill Jamieson
Brian Rogers
Matthew Craig
Steven Klotz

Business Manager

Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Almost time to
hand me the
chicken suit

Once again, I ﬁnd it necessary to abuse the (lim-
ited) power of this column to further my own self-
ish ends instead of the (supposed) well being _of
this campus. 0

I need ajob. I need ajob right now.

But how could an obviously gifted and talented
writer such as myself(please note the sarcasm) not
have dozens ofjob offers to choose from?

W, M?
jogn a Bar Stool
,._..Efic Swensen 98

Well, it’s simple really. When I chose a major
three years ago, I pickedjournalism, apparently the
only industry to have absolutely nojob growth over
the last decade. Lucky me.

This means that an expanding pool of trained
journalists are competing for the same number of
jobs. Actually, with the number of newspapers that
have either folded or merged recently, the number
ofjobs injournalism has probably declined over the
past decade.

Thanks to the glut of journalists on the market,
the jobs that are available to the recent J -school grad
come complete with some interesting choices. Most
jobs offer a salary and a package of beneﬁts. Injour-
nalisin, you get a choice of one or the other.

Meanwhile, computer programmers who show up
for interviews in cutoffjeans and sandals and who
have a drooling problem get offered $100,000 a year
plus stock options.

So what is a young man like me supposed to do?
My friends, most of whom have cushyjob or gradu-
ate school offers lined up, have offered me plenty
of helpful suggestions. The most recent (and my
favorite) piece of advice was to find a job writing
paragraph-long teasers for movies in porn catalogs.

While I’m certain thejob has its fringe benefits,
I’m pretty sure that is not what my parents intended
for me after spending all this money on my educa-
tion.

One of my professors suggested I seek out work
in war zones in order to make a name for myself.
While not a bad idea in theory, I remember the movie
“Spies Like Us” every time I consider it. You might
remember the scene when Chevy Chase and Dan
Akroyd were dropped in some desert without being
able to speak the local language. A gang of rebels
appears from over the next hill, armed with riﬂes.
Trying to calm the rebels down, they exclaim,
“We’re Americans!” In the next scene, they"re hang-
ing upside down, bound at the hands and feet.

I’m probably overstating the peril I face as I en-
ter the job market. I’m sure I can find ajob some-
where like the Podunk Press writing obituaries from
midnight to 8 a.m.

One image, though, constantly pops into my mind
as I search for ajob. It was my senior year in high
school, and I was interning at United Press Interna-
tional, a newsgathering service, in New York City.
One day I met my dad, who worked a few blocks
over from my office, for lunch. As we were walk-
ing back to our offices, a person wearing a bright,
enormous chicken outﬁt accosted us. He was hand-
ing out coupons for a fast-food restaurant down
the street.

Something about it struck me as especially de-
grading, because I remember telling my dad, “If you
ever catch me wearing a chicken suit, just shoot me
right on the spot.”

I don’t think things will ever come to that point.
Just in case though, dad, start cleaning your riﬂe.

15 Minutesiof Shame

g

GIG-.

’Tlt~E—
4}; sin:

3E!-bl SVKI C

U LTRA __ ‘i Yo MINORITY

Cousenvnnve

93% ALcaHoLlc.S

MKSPRINGER, HERE'S
THE eermus oN TH4T _
wast-u~c-rou on LEE l‘MH'“"“‘4£ss

(Au.-El KL.

NO WAY”
Tnose PEOPLE mes
FKEAKSl

Tue
:47 smrz

Let’s start treating kids like
regular members of society

The V-chip is a tremendously bad idea. Let me put that
in perspective:

Non-alcoholic beer — bad idea

A sitcom starring Pauly Shore and Tom Arnold — very
bad idea

Moving to Delaware — extremely bad idea

The V-chip — tremendously bad idea

J .-

For those who don’t know, the V-chip is a chip that
will be installed in every television in America and will
theoretically solve all of society’s ills by keeping naughty
programs from children’s view. My problem with the V-
chip isn’t with its methods. Hey, I like government cen-
sorship as much as the next guy.

My problem is with the very bad idea behind the V-
chip. It attempts to suppress adult entertainment in order
to protect the innocence of children. Frankly, I don’t see
the point in protecting childhood innocence. It only lasts
for a few years anyway. No one remains blissfully igno-
rant of the problems of the world forever (well, except for
conservatives).

Centuries of this misguided attempt to build a perfect
world by protecting childhood innocence had failed. The
only thing we’ve done is created a generation of bitter,
cynical adults. Besides, our cruel society only makes a
shallow mockery of childhood innocence by blatantly ly-
ing to children. Santa Claus? The Easter Bunny? Let’s
stop ﬁlling our kids’ heads with silly stories and give them
a strong dose of reality. Hey, maybe if we let twelve-year-

olds into R-rated movies, they wouldn’t have as much
time to have sex (it’s true you know).

The solution is simple: Don’t get rid of the sex and
violence on TV, just get rid of childhood. Think my po-
sition is extreme? Well consider this: How many of the
world’s great scientiﬁc, artistic and philosophic accom-
plishments have been made by children? None. In fact,
the only notable thing children have ever done is the
Children’s Crusade —— the worst organized war in his-
tory (and I’m even including any war that included Spain
or Mexico). Thanks a lot, kids. I say it’s time we stop
letting this sizable portion of the population leech off the
rest of us.

I propose we eliminate this troublesome childhood in-
nocence with a little device I’ve invented called the C-
chip. This little gizmo will automatically block out all
inane, childish programming on your television. The gun
ﬁghts and naked breasts and curse words stay in, the danc-
ing purple dinosaurs and snufﬂeupaguses (snufﬂeupagi?)
are blocked out.

Within a few weeks of watching C-chip TV, your kids
will be as disillusioned as  say  Dennis Miller (and
just as foul mouthed). Within a month, they’ll have given
up their foolish dreams of being pony-riding prircesses
and movie stars and will be perusing the want ads for en-
try-level jobs in the service industry.

Let’s accept defeat and let children join the real world
(not the MTV show The Real World, which is ironically
the exact opposite of the real world). It’s time we treated
children like human beings, and human beings do not live
in some sort of magic fairy world (well, except for liber-

als). Down with childishness, I say. If you disagree with

methen you are a dumb, smelly doo-doo head.

Dogs are all we need to improve the campus

Some of my favorite science building occupants
never shave.

They’re the dogs who accompany professors to
campus every day, the four-legged creatures who
brighten the buildings of Washington and Lee with
their playfulness and their sense of fun.

§':‘Red Brick Row

5

"5:gI)avid Balsley ’99

Dogs are fun to have in academic buildings for a
number of reasons.

First, they are less demanding than their owners.
Your professors expect you to know things like
Lagrange multipliers and structural deformations
caused by convergent boundaries and the relation-
ship between the Retained Earnings Statement and

TALKbaC

“I’d have to get academic credit”

— Lance Clack ’00

“I actually do go to them voluntarily.”

the Balance Sheet. Your professors’ dogs expect you
to scratch their heads. Period. So far as they’re con-
cerned, if you can do that, you can go home now be-
cause you have an A for the semester.

If it weren’t for my personal inhibitions (both of them),
I’d be out there running around, too.

Some people worry that dogs kept in academic build-
ings willjump on people or make messes. This doesn’t
seem to be the case. The

Second, dogs can help
you relieve stress. No 
matter how bad your day
has been or how much
work you have to do, a dog
will think you are great.
Take the unconditional
adoration when you can. It

Aﬁer being in class all day, I ’d love
to follow the example set by some of
W&L ’s canine visitors and take oﬂ
running wildly across the Colonnade.

professors who bring dogs
to campus are good about
keeping them in their of-

The dogs themselves seem

will make your bad day
and your work seem a little less stressful.

Last, academic dogs do some of the things I would
love to do. After being in class all day, I’d love to
follow the example set by some of W&L’s canine visi-
tors and take offrunning wildly across the Colonnade.

a dog were to make a mess,
7’ stains come out.
why carpeting is made of carpeting and not silk, after
all. .

The university may be planning to spend $53 mil-
lion to improve W&L, but dogs are the only addition
to campus I need.

. What would it take to get you to a
- Washington and Lee sporting event?

—— David Damiani ’00

“A competent W&L team.”

-— John Zimmer ’00

‘‘If they’d announce it more.”

— Khriss Stone ’00

ﬁces away from students.‘
well-behaved and quiet. If’

That’s

 

PAGE. 6

As Seen on T. V.,

allit of Humor, Opinion anlB,evi.ews
last Word

MARCH gs, 1998

HE: Co LLEQE OF CABLE

BrKl1 T
i eey Omen Staffwnter

Some people believe that the television is a detri-
ment to the mind. It quickly sucks the viewer into the
vortex, strips him of coherent thought and transforms
him into a mere vegetable.

Contrary to this vicious rumor, television actu-
ally provides a quality education. Sure, the profes-
sors here at Washing- 

the-job insight by witnessing the workday at an ad
agency, DND, when they tune into “Melrose Place.”
General education requirements draw many students to
the popular psychology classes entitled, “Suffering
through life: dealing with cancer, alcoholism and teen-
age marriages,” taught by the Salinger family from
“Party of Five.”

This past fall term marked the beginning of
Fox’s graduate program with the induction
ofthe award-winning law school. All courses are taught

by Professor Ally McBeal.

ton and Lee are great
— they have the cre-
dentials, the enthusi-
asm and sometimes
even a sense of humor
— but, are they hon-
estly preparing us for

Will biology or physics teach us
anything we couldn’t have already
learned from “Doogie Howser” or

“Quantum Leap”?

Even the old standard,
“Beverly Hills 90210” has
revamped its syllabus to
create a seminar combining
lessons from the music in-
dustry and journalism. Pro-
, fessors David Silver and

the real world with

unique information? Think about it. What could
biology or physics possibly teach us that we haven’t
already learned from “Doogie Howser” or “Quan-
tum Leap”?

Take for example, Fox University. Under the skilled
guidance of President Aaron Spelling, Fox University
has significantly expanded its course offerings over
the years. Prospective advertising majors receive on-

Brandon Walsh are co-
teachers of the course that brings current issues into
the forefront.

This, however, is a very small slice of Fox University’s
selection; it offers much more quality programming to
appeal to the widespread interests of all students.

If you find yourself to have a wanderlust with the
remote control, venture away from the Spelling empire
and you will discover that education continues across

 

Collins

Friday, March 27
at 8 p.m. in the

Collins can be seen on
comedy Central’s “Stand Up
Stand Up” as well as MTV’s

“Half-Hour Comedy Hour”
and VHI “Stand-Up Spotlite.”

Collins has also been a

featured performer on
“The Late Show with David

See him in action for free this

   

GHQ

Letterman.”

Friday.

This is your last chance to get in on Fridays!
Mad March Comedy Extravaganza. It’s free and
J a great stress buster for upcoming exams.

Colonnade Club

the television dial. Students in search of relationship
advice can find all the tools they need during daytime
television. A wide variety of programs offer new per-
spectives on reality to help you through those
troubled times with a loved one.
These shows also feature spe-
cial seminarsin relevant topics
such as, “How to Fake a Preg-
nancy,” “Coping with an Evil
Twin,” and best of all, “Adjust-
ing to Life with Amnesia.”

Public speaking courses
have become increasingly
popular lately as more and more
professors offer panel discus-
sions. Seminars that discuss
dysfunctional friendships,
cheating spouses and cross-
dressing alien lovers are popu-
lar topics for Jerry Springer,
Jenny Jones and Ricki Lake.
Professor Oprah Winfrey—_
teaches a highly rated monthly
class on literature, with her
book-of-the-month club, while
the more musically-oriented Rosie O’Donnell offers a
Broadway sing-along.

For those of mply find it impossible to
get out of bed in the afternoon, check out the offer-
ings at the networks’ night schools. David Letterman,
Jay Leno and Conan O’Brien all hold intimate dis-
cussions with today’s heroes (you know, movie stars

   

and musicians) along with personal insight and com-
mentary on current events. For a more in-depth study of
public policy issues, try Bill Maher’s “Politically Incor-
rect.” There’s also another show out there, something
called “Nightline.” I’ve heard
that it isn’t half-bad, but the
professor has really bad hair,
which I ﬁnd distracting.

24 hours ofhighly educa-
tional programming, seven
days a week. Have you ever
seriously considered the
endless possibilities of
television’s intellectual offer-
ings? So, the next time you
decide to pick up that book
on Max Weber instead of the
T.V. Guide, perhaps you
should stop to think for a
second, “What will I really be
learning?”

Now, I understand that
these revelations might be
distressing. After all, you’re
making the realization that

1

(

J

?

V

I‘

you could be wasting your parents’ entire savings on '

an education you could have gotten for the bargain
price ofthe monthly cable bill.

Don’t fret; though somewhat harder to obtain, the
sheepskin diploma from W&L looks much classier on
your wall than Sally Struther’s correspondence college
degree. Trust me.

  
 
   

“You

have Carolyn Bloomer @ Will-

bf air-13 in  iams School room 337

}’0111' h€ad: MONDAY WEDNESDAY

YOU haVC feet 3 p,m_ French show; 7:30 p.m. “Global Climate
in your shoes", “L’Amour, la Mort et les Change and the National
- DR S0658 Rhinoceros,” Interest,” James

O . . . .  . O . . . @ duPont Auditorium. MacKenzie, Woodrow

° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° TUESDAY Wilson Visiting Fellow @

TUESDAY
12:30 p.m. Golf: W&L
ODAC Invitational @
Lexington Country Club

WEDNESDAY les Rhinoceros” @ duPont Auditorium
3 p.m. Baseball THURSDAY
vs- Hampden-Sydney @ 8 p.m. One—Act Plays, Bill A» THURSDAY
Smith Field @ Johnson Theatre 3 p.m. Writing Program:
3:30 p'm° Menis lax VS‘ FRIDAY “Writing in Psychology,”

Connecticut College @
Wilson Field

THURSDAY
4 p.m. Women’s lax vs.
Colby @ Liberty Hall Fields

FRIDAY

All Day: Men’s tennis
Invitational (through Sunday
@ Upper Courts)

SATURDAY
1 p.m. Baseball vs. Emory
& Henry, Smith Field
-Women’s lax vs. Mary
Washington @ Liberty
Hall Fields

PARTIES

No known
fraternity parties
this weekend

ARTS&

8 p.m. University Wind
Ensemble Pre—tour Perfor-
mance, Lenfest Center
-“L’Amour, la Mort et

8 p.m. Comedian Wali
Collins at the GHQ
-One—Act Plays, Bill B
SATURDAY

2 p.m. One-Act Plays, Bill
A, Johnson Theatre

8 p.m. University-
Shenandoah Symphony
Orchestra @ Lenfest /

ooooooooU7"o/ooooooo

LECTURES

TUESDAY I
4 p.m. Reading/book-

signing by Professor Bill
Oliver @Northen Auditorium.
7:30 p.m. “Cultural Modes
of Information Perception:
Marketing American Prod-
ucts in China and Japan,”

Northen Auditorium
°“l\/lodern Chinese Painting:
Roots and Shoots,”

Carolyn Bloomer

Professor David Elmes @
Game Room,
University Center

°Math Colloquium: “And
Then There Were Two: A
Look at the Banch-Tarski
Paradox,” Paul Humke @
Robinson Hall 6

FRIDAY

All Day: Law Symposium:
“The Future of International
Human Rights”
@ Lewis Hall.

iiiiBy—Hoﬂister Hovey

Wvo0— PM 90

 
   

all WT ‘(av
W014 LIFE TH9
T‘lt7a'_ Vou ‘(Z-2
é‘Dlt~l' VOWN‘.
A’HP<l\ I HM -
HR’HB’HA

HA‘.

 
 
     
   
   
   
   

 

 
   
   
 

60.wltA1'9
Yo ut2- NAME?
I worse You
ltkvra 9°
GU we AND
FEALD1 WE
O-HALL ’O\9lhZ"7‘.

   
 

   
   
    

  

N o I VON 'T-
ANO WWW"?
You?-NME»

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

