8

 
   

/itch M
, *2"?-2. ‘ass
i’<. 

1‘/.  5.’)

(I

ll   The moming-after pill:

hope is close at hand 

W&L|FE

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 12

Demure dancers
triumph at Lip
Synch flesh fest

 Judges favor skill, practice and
choreography over drunken strip-
tease and wanton destruction

BY HEATHER MCDONALD

NEWS EDITOR

With over 840 spectators and 32 acts, this year’s Lip
Synch contest turned out to be the place to be Friday night.
First place went to Chi Omega’s “Men in Black,” second
place went to Chi-O’s “Everybody Needs Somebody,” and
third place went to Kappa Delta’s “Son of a Preacher Man.”

“At first we thought we had been disqualiﬁed because
we had more than six people on stage, but then they called
our name,” said Faith Collins, a KD pledge. “It was so
exhilarating! You couldn’t see any of the people in the
crowd, but you could just hear this one big cheer from
them. It was one of the most fun nights this year.”

$5,080 was raised for Students Against Rockbridge
Area Hunger. Coordinator Gerry Darrell said Friday night,
“It will keep four area food banks filled for the rest of the
winter.”

This year’s contest was the largest ever: it had the most
acts and the largest audience, and it raised the most money.
Last year, only about $3,500 was raised, and only 575
people paid to see the show.

“I was very pleased with the response of the specta-
tors. It was a very successful tumout,” said Darrell.

Junior Wes Armstrong, the Lip Synch MC, agreed.
“We had the most people ever  It was the craziest I’ve
ever seen it,” he said.

Crazy is perhaps the best way to describe some-of
the acts. Ranging from classic such as James Brown
and Nancy Sinatra to more contemporary spoofs of
movies such as “Austin Powers” and “Men in Black,”
the acts ran the gamut from the carefully choreographed
to the chaotic.

There were mishaps with two acts. A Phi Psi pledge
accidentally exposed his genitalia. The unintentional
exhibitionist could not be reached for comment. \

The Sigma Nu act also got out of control. At the
end, the pledges tore down the white lattices, which
were the background for the stage. Security person-
nel rushed onto the stage and pulled the act.

“We were just trying to have fun,” said Sigma Nu
pledge Matthew Herman. “Our intention was not to
destroy anything. By accident, things got out of hand.”

“I felt that the acts were tamer and more under control
than in past years, with two egregious exceptions,” said
Dean of the Freshman Program, Dennis G. Manning.
“[The majority] behaved more responsibly  Out of the
32 acts, there seemed to be a larger number than usual
that took time to prepare and rehearse their acts.”

“There was a lot of rowdy and artistic and creative

talent — there was truly a wide range,” said Manning, .
who has served on the panel of judges for SIX years.

Darrell had a slightly different perspective.

“I have some serious concerns about the conduct
of some ofthe acts,” Darrell said. “We are grateful
for the support of the spectators and acts, but we
need to address the other concerns. It was asking

Sanders takes
back advisees

BY LIZ DETTER

W&I.IFE EDITOR

The black and orange “For Rent” sign no longer hangs
on Professor of History 1. Taylor Sanders’ office door. A
black and white drawing of an aardvark.

“It’s my totem,” said Sanders.

The notice, which apprised his advisees that he would no
longer serve as an advisor, has been removed. In its place is a
new note, which states that Sanders will take back his advisees.

“Last week I was amazed and touched by how many of
you came by Newcomb and asked to remain as my advisees,”
reads the notice.

“It was a decision that was made on Thursday,” said Sand-
ers. “It’s really no big deal.”

‘‘I’m very happy that he agreed to remain my advisor,”
said one advisee who asked to remain annoymous.

Laurent Boetsch, Dean of the College, was also pleased
with Sanders’ decision. “I don’t think it comes as any sur-
prise. As long as I’ve been here, Professor Sanders has been
among the most dedicated and committed professors to his
students and teaching,” said Boetsch. ’

“I believe that Sanders has taken his advisees back, and is
using his oﬁice again, and I am glad that is so,” President John
Elrod said. “ It is very important for faculty members at Wash-
ington and Lee to be available to students outside class time, and
no-one has been more faithﬁil in doing that over a very long
career at Washington and Lee than Taylor Sanders.”

Sanders also reinstated office hours. He will be available
Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 1 1:10 to I 1:30 a.m.

When disaster strikes, your best last

 

SPORTS

PAGE 7

Men’s Basketball:
The Generals pulled off a
spectacular second—half
turnaround to beat
Emory & Henry 6362.

   

LAST WORD

ﬂing-tum   It

 

 

   J u.‘ Freshman Vanessa Chen, (1 Chi

Omega pledge, lip synchs to "Everybody Needs Somebody to Love,” from the movie “The Blues Brothers.”

Howsme H01/EV/B1070 [book

too much of security to control a crowd ofthat size
and that was with five full-time campus security of-
ficers, in addition to five student security [aids].” Ac-
cording to Darrell, there was some destruction back-
stage. A table was broken in half, some furniture “was
beaten up” and a lamp was also broken.

“I hate to put a damper on the evening, because ev-

eryone did a great job,” said Darrell. But, paying for
the damage done cut into the proceeds to S.A.R.A.H.

Manning offered a different perspective.

“The real significance of service to others gets lost
in the frenzy,” said Manning. “There is a real sense of
community spirit; the fraternities, sororities, MSA, in-
dependents. A lot of good comes out of it.”

Dutch Inn may reopen as beatnik coffee-house:

Spirit of revolution is back

BY WILL HARDIE
NEWS EDITOR

It takes revolutionary ideas to dislodge societies which,
wheels lodged finnly in the ruts oftradition, are trundling
inexorably toward decadence and stagnation. The Romans
never got their act together and bailed out of Rome in
A.D. 330. The French sorted themselves out in style in
1789, and heads rolled. A bunch ofguys in Lexington are
hoping that 1998 will be remembered as the year they
breathed some artistic and intellectual life back into their
town.

With the support of Scott Sayre, local entrepreneur and
modest philanthropist, a band ofWashington and Lee stu-
dents calling themselves the Rapscallions are planning to
convert the vacant Dutch Inn into a salon and coffee-house
which, they say, “would serve as a gathering place for the
exchange of ideas.”

Many students and others have welcomed the plan as
an alternative to the present social system at W&L, which
is limited in its potential for intellectual discourse and can
put pressure on students to use alcohol.

The dearth of fashionable and fun student venues that
are not connected with drinking is sure to have contrib-
uted to the alcohol—related medical and social problems
that are plaguing the university. Sayre had this in mind
when he got involved in the project. He has not been im-
pressed by the fraternities’ use of alcohol. “The impres-
sion the minority makes in glamorizing alcohol is good
for no-one. I see this as a possible alternative to the fra-
ternity scene and the glamorization of alcohol,” he said.

The health authorities agree. Tom Houlihan is director
of adult clinical services, responsible for the Lexington
alcohol and substance abuse program.

“I would very much support the development of any
kind of alternative for students. There certainly does seem
to be a lack of alternatives to using alcohol,” he said.

President John Elrod also approves of the venture. “It
is an intriguing concept and I got very enthusiastic about
it. It would be a wonderful asset to the community, not
just to W&L,” he said. Because it would provide a drink-
free atmosphere? “I think it’s a nice opportunity to give to
students to drink coffee and tea.”

The core purpose ofthe scheme is artistic and intellec-
tual. At a meeting of supporters Tuesday night, Chief Rap-
scallion Dow Harris, who originated the idea, said: “Lex-
ingtonjust doesn’t have a place where all the diverse fac-
ets of society can come toand musicians in Lexington.
There is talent here, there and everywhere that wants to
meet the students.”

30 students and ﬁve locals attended Tuesday’s mock-
secret meeting, the purpose of which was to gauge and
canvas support for the plan. The Rapscallions had handed
out scraps of paper reading, “Confidential ~ secret meet-
ing tonight  bring allies, don’t tell the enemy. Special
password: Pyrite.” The idea was to make the venue sound
exciting and subversive.

The students seemed enthusiastic. “W&L desperately
needs somewhere outside school to hang out,” said

‘CD SEE DUTCH PAGE 2

   

.....,_»,-  L.';Yi3 nu LIBHAHY
4/ASHINGTON 3. LEE UNIVERSE‘:
lﬁxiucamu. VA was -

Jiiisoisn 

Is your relationship going
 down the drain? When
 King John comes calling,
  feminine sensibilities get
flushed 

      
  
 

Bulk Rate
US l’ostage
PAII)
Pcnnit No. 7
Iexington. Va.

  

PAGE 8
Monday

6
JANUARY 26, 1998

Crowd surfer
unleashes
wave of ﬁlth

(CD Electrocution terror puts end to
Breakfast Club party

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

.\/lANAoII\'c. EDITOR

After the beer ran out at Friday’s Lip Synch and the
final strip-tease was performed, hordes of Washington and
Lee students headed over to Chi Psi to listen to the “Break-
fast Club.” Most left smelling bad and soaking wet. And
it wasn’t men that were raining.

Around 12:00 a.m., before the “Breakfast Club” had even
taken their first break, a W&L man was “crowd surfing."
While being tossed around by a group of students, he grabbed
one of the exposed pipes that line Chi Psi’s ceiling. It was
the emergency sprinkler pipe, and as soon as it was pulled
down, dirty, stagnant water gushed out and drenched every-
one in its path. Two inches accumulated in the basement
within minutes.

“I just want to dispel the rumorthat it was a sewer pipe,”
said Chi Psi President Russ Woody. “The water was just
dirty and had been in the pipe for a long time.”

Woody grabbed the pipe immediately and attempted
to turn offthe valve. “We couldn’t figure out which valve
turned it off,” he said.

Senior Kelsay Berland was standing next to the pipe
when it broke. “The water that first came out was very
muddy and smelly, but after that, the water was actually
pretty clean,” she said. “I was soaked."

“Everybody panicked and screamed, probably because
they were so many drunk people there,” Berland said.
“Some people headed for the door and some just stood
there and got even wetter.”

“People really overreacted, and were screaming that
there was gasoline in the water,” senior Megan Johnson
said. “Why would there be gasoline in the water? It wasn’t
even that disgusting or that foul.”

“We were just really worried about the electric current
from the band’s equipment,” said Chi Psi President Russ
Woody. “But luckily they pulled the plug right away.” No
damage was caused to the band’s equipment.

“I’m just surprised that no one got electracuted,”
Berland said. “I jumped up on the wooden stage because I
didn’t want to get fried.”

She says that the situation was compounded by the large
number of people packed into the fraternity to see the popu-
lar ’80s band.

“There were just so many people there, pushing against
each other,” Berland said. “A lot of people had bruises on
their legs from pushing into the partition they put in front

Ii) sea WATER Pier 6

   

  

 I    gun,
Wutospeak

. . I NEWS EDITOR

; , ' ;;Preside‘nts-John Eirodwas astonished when he heard
‘ the ne’y§s.1“My mouth’ dropped open when I saw that
,they’d got Harry Wu. Ithink it’s fantastic, I’m de-
lighted,” he said. J
5 The world~renowned Chinese dissident and promi-
nent human rights activist will visit Washington and
Leeion Thursday. He will give a speech in the Northen
zauditorium‘ 7.30, p.rn., as part of W&L’s observance
. of Captive Nations Week.

The conviction that has made Wu one of the world’s
most outspoken dissidents is rooted in cruel experi-
ence. While a student at Beijing College, Wu was de-
nounced as“a “rightis ” and sentenced to life impris-
onment for questioning communism. The year was
1956; Wu was 19 years old. He spent the next 23 years
of his life in labor camps, where the Communist gov-
ernment attempted to “reform him through labor.”
They failed.

Wu was released in 1979 at the age of 42, and in
1985 he came to the United States determined to ex-
pose the system that had enslaved him along with
nearly 50 million other Chinese since 1949. He has
branded the Iaogai gulag system “the biggest use of
slavery this century,” and compared it to the Nazi and
Soviet concentration camps.

China has more than 1000 gulags and slave labor
camps, more than the Soviet Union had when
Solzhenitsyn wrote The Gulag Archipelago, accord-
ing to the W&L Captive Nations Week website,
www.wlu.edu/~freedom/. In 1992 Wu founded the
Laogai Research Foundation to expose to the world
the injustice of the system he says uses slave labor to
produce products exported all over the world, inc lud-

 

 

PAGE 2

  

 

  

an ;gg;ii}érizlizetfor you if
statﬁments: A

,.{I,’.a,bst
so much rahrrtj. g g
. at.,.thatbig Whit¢:§1attice“. .
j   the stage

  . And whenet;9.¢r£4iI¢ Per
.i;,.¢€'.1@.i?? 115516139
1}, ‘jingltan Austin Powers 0

   

  

    
2‘313399998i1P¢’C¢i1t”inak¢d

;   riobsérﬁiiggi.  .l;i,;;k,;;,f_Le_1_g
pulled on stagejby the KD.girls.

'    up onstagé
, but youknow, ustbouldn?
“ see me'.cuzial1qof.those. 

 
 

 
    
     
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
   

I1€WS

Clinton pledges
work-study cash

BY WILL HARDIE
 NEW'S EDITOR

President Clinton wants to spend
an extra $70 million on the federal
work-study program, but quite how
that might affect Washington and Lee
students remains to be seen. Clinton
called it “an opportunity to help us
build the promise of America,” but
Washington and Lee Director of Fi-
nancial Aid John DeCourcy said, “The
effect will be negligible on the indi-
vidual students.”

If Congress approves Clinton’s
budget proposal, the federal govem—
ment will spend an extra $70 million
on the Federal College Work Pro-
gram, which currently helps pay for
the college education of more than
940,000 students across the nation.
According to a White House statement
this is one of the greatest investments
in higher education in the past 50
years. Clinton’s proposals have the
tentative support of both parties in
Congress, though the Republicans are
cautious about overspending.

330 W&L students currently re-
ceive ﬁnancial aid from the Federal
College Work Program. The Univer-
sity received $172,000 for the pro-
gram in 1997, which it topped up by
25 percent.

Federal work-study is separate

 DUTCH

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

A Sophomore Jessica Helm. She said

she had been pleasantly surprised to
meet many like-minded students
whom she didn’t already know.

The organizers still need to
raise a large amount of cash be-
fore the scheme can go ahead, but
they are optimistic that they will
find a way. “We need a major
miracle at this point,” said Sayre.
“We need $200,000 to fall out of
the sky. Financially the best thing
to do would be to level it and do
Something else with the land, un-
less you’ve got the Chinese army
to do all the work. Well it looks

from the W&L work program, on
which 58 students have jobs on cam-
pus to help support their study.

It is unclear how the situation at
W&L would change were funding in-
creased. Even if Clinton obtained the
$70 million he wants, nationally this
would be worth only $7.45 per cur-
rent recipient. If Clinton’s extra dol-
lars were shared out equally among
work-study programs nationally, ac-
cording to the number of students on
each program, W&L would receive a
$2500 increase, to $174,500. Finan-
cial Aid assistant Kim Ruscio said the
department hopes for $180,000 in
1998.

This much cash could be used to
fund 15 more work-study places at the
current rate. But how any increase in
funding is to be spent will depend on
federal guidelines. Ruscio said it is
likely that Clinton will concentrate on
the community service program,
through which Federal work-study
students work as volunteers on local
community literacy training schemes.
32 W&L students are participating in
11 such local schemes this year.

“We will just have to wait and
see,” said Ruscio. DeCourcy was
more skeptical. “I really don’t
think it will have have a large
impact,” he said.

like we’ve got the Chinese army,
with all the support we’re get-
ting.”

The original concept for the
plan was based on the salons of
17th-and 18th-century France,
which were the breeding-grounds
of the ideas that sparked the
French Revolution. Harris hopes
the Dutch Inn salon would revive
just such intellectual vigor and
vitality in Lexington. “It would
be a cultural thoroughfare where
artistic creativity would flourish.”
As he writes in his proposal, ‘‘It
would be a bazaar where dancing
ideas would be able to find part-
ners.”

JANUARY 26, 1998

 

VA COOL TO HOST AMERICORP TRAINING

Jay White ’96 and VA COOL, the Virginia Campus Outreach Opportunity League,
a non-profit organization located on the campus of the University of Richmond, will
host a training session for VA COOL Americorps members Friday Jan. 30 through
Sunday Feb. 1.

Workshops focusing on Conflict Mediation, Mental Health Assesment, Team-Build-
ing, Grant-Writing, and Relaxation Techniques will be held Sat. Jan. 31 in Commerce
School room 221 and Sunday Feb. 1 in UC 114. The Washington and Lee community
is invited to attend the workshops, but space will be limited. Saturday afternoon, VA
COOL and individuals from the W&L community will be participating in an afternoon
of community service at the Mayﬂower Retirement Home on North Main Street. Call
804-289-8009 or e-mail Jay White atjwhite2@richmond.edu for reservations and fur-
ther information.

VA COOL is the statewide ofﬁce for collegiate voluntarism. W&L became a mem-
ber in 1997.

SUMMER PROGRAM, ST. ANNE’S COLLEGE

Washington and Lee is one of six area schools that sponsor a summer program at St.
Anne’s College, Oxford, England. The Virginia Program at Oxford uses the English
tutorial system to study the literature and history of Tudor and Stuart England. The
course will run from July 6 to August 15, 1998. The application deadline is March 2.
There is some scholarship aid available. The cost ofthe program is $3,850 which cov-
ers full tuition, room, board and group excursions for the six-week program. See Prof.
Pamela Simpson in the art department for more information.

KEEN TO SPEAK ON CONTEMPORARY FICTION BY

WOMEN, RECEPTION WILL FOLLOW

Professor Suzanne Keen, from W&L’s English department, will speak on Thursday
Jan. 29 at 7:30 p.m. in room 221 of the Commerce School. Her lecture will be entitled
“Contemporary Fiction by Women.” A reception will follow, and the public is wel-
come. The lecture is sponsored by Xi Pi Xi Society, an independent women’s organi-
zation at W&L. For more information, contact Robing Seaton, Xi Pi Xi Society Trea-
surer, via e-mail or on 462-4562.

SCIENCE LECTURE ON “NEUROPSYCHOLOGY OF

ANXIETY,” PUBLIC INVITED TO ATTEND

Jeffrey A. Gray will give a lecture in room A214 of the New Science Center on
Wednesday Jan. 28 at 4:30 p.m. Gray is head ofthe psychology department at Maudsley
Hospital’s lnstitue for Psychiatry at the University of London. His lecture is entitled,
“What’s Where in the Neuropsychology of Anxiety.” The lecture is sponsored by the
New Science Center Dedication Committee, which is responsible for organizing ac-
tivities to celebrate W&L’s new science facilities. The public is invited to attend.

CONTINUE) ONPAGE6

THE FORCE OF IDEAS

Meet representatives from
The Advisory Board Company
and learn more about our
Research Associate position.

W WEDNESDAY, IANUARY 28, 1998
W UNIVERSITY CENTER, RooM 114

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY .
W 7:00 P.M. ’

g Honest Conduct’
Servant3Heart I 2
Surplus Value I ,
Team Engagement  _i
Spiritof Generosity V ;
Ethic0fHard Work ii
Constant Growth
. ThePowerof.
Language C
RunningToWard ’
Qriticisrrr A ' "

THE ADVISORY BOARD COMPANY
The Watergate, 600 New Hampshire AVe., N.W.
Washington, DC 20037-2403

For additional information, please visit our Web site at
www.advisory.com

An Equal Opportunity Employer

 

 

JANUARY 26, 1998

 

BLOW OUT OF TOWN and leave the stress of schoolwork behind during
Washington Holiday. ARTBY H()1.IJSTER H0l7§Y

Students make a
break in February

BY KEiii3Y TOI'IH\I

STAFF Wanna

ashington Holi
day traditionally
provides Wash
ington and Lee
students with
time to get away from the grind and
escape Lexington. While some stu-
dents will forget their studies and en-
joy their vacations during February
break, some motivated seniors will turn
the break into opportunities for their
futures as rock stars or stockbrokers.

Underpants Cowboy, comprised of
W&L rockers Jimmy Angel (stage name
for James Angelos), Jed Hazlett, Greg
Chow and Matt O’Brien, will launch its
kick-off tour in the Southeast.

“It’s pretty low—budget,” said
Angelos. “We’ll probably be sleep-
ing in the actual car and eating fast
food, like Jim Morrison when he first
started out.”

While Underpants roams the
Southeast in search of listeners, eco-
nomics major Helen
Kim will be gearing
up for the corporate
world. Junior Laura
Cohen and senior
.-Dana Hood will head
for Mexico to wor-
ship the sun, and a
group of freshmen
will play in the pow-
der in New York.

The band will
travel in two cars:
Angelos’ Buick
LeSabre and Hazlett’ s
Oldsmobile. “Greg is
not allowed to drive
in North Carolina for
various traffic violations,” said Angelos
of Chow, who received a speeding ticket
in Yadkinville, N.C.

“They said my privileges to oper-
ate a motor vehicle in North Carolina
have been revoked,” Chow said. He
refuses to pay the $25 fee to reinstate
his license.

Angelos, vocalist and rhythm gui-
tarist, doubles as the manager, “sort-
of,” for the band. “That’s our problem-
we need a manager,” he said. “We’re
rockers, were bad at organization.”

Right now, the band has only one
venue booked. Underpants will end
(and perhaps start) the tour Saturday,
Feb. 21, in Charlottesville at the To-
kyo Rose. The band plans, tentatively,
to travel through North Carolina,
South Carolina and Georgia. If
Angelos does not find any places to
play, the band will probablyjust show
up on people’s doorsteps, ready to
play, he said.

“It’ll be a rock’em, sock’em, good
time,” said Chow.

Underpants will use their perfor-
mance this Thursday in the Pit at 8:30
as a warrn-up for the trip. “We’re hon-
ing our scales down and working out
the kinks for the World Tour,” said
Angelos.

O’Brien, Underpants’ percussion-
ist, who describes their music as a
“jazzy, sexy, eclectic feel with
an undercurrent of

 

  
 
 
 
  
 

electric shock therapy,” thinks the tour
will attract some professional recogni-
tion.

“I hope that we can just meet some
record executives,” said O’Brien, “and
spread the word of the imminent Top-
40 status of Underpants Cowboy.”

The seniors have been playing
music together, just fooling around,
since they started at W&L. They
formed the band this fall when solo
guitarist Chow brought his drum set
to school for O’Brien to play. Accord-
ing to Angelos, the name was bassist
Jed Hazlett’s idea.

“Jed believes that there’s a cow-
boy in everyone of us, just beneath
the surface,” explained Angelos, “just
like underpants.”

If the band proves to be a huge
success, Underpants would like to
continue the tour internationally this
summer. Band members boast that the
group is already a mega-hit abroad.
According to Angelos, grass-roots
distribution has resulted in a huge fol-
lowing in Ireland.

“We’re really, re-
ally big in Belgium
right now,” claims
O’Brien.

While Under-
pants roams the
Southeast in search
of listeners, eco-
nomics major Helen
Kim will begearing

up for the corporate
world.

Kim will spend
Monday through
Friday of February
break working 8 a.m.
to 6 p.m. for Morgan
Stanley/Dean Witter, a brokerage firm
in Washington, D.C.

“I suppose it’s a taste of the real
world—— for what’s to come in June,”
Kim said. “I will basically be a gopher
for my February break.”

The first weekend of the break, Feb.
13-15, Kim willjoin some friends in
Wintergreen, Va. at senior Hillary
Martin’s cabin.

“We’ll go skiing, rentsappy mov-
ies, and drink a lot of hot chocolate.
We’ll also be complaining about
Valentine’s Day,” said Kim, who de-
scribes her fellow vacationers as a
“Valentine support group.”

Kim will head home to Fairfax, Va.
Sunday night to be at work bright and
early Monday morning. But working
through a vacation isn’t new for Kim;
she spent the two weeks of Christmas
break with Dean Witter. When she was
hired, the company asked when she
would be available and Kim gave them
her calendar.

“I told them about my 2 breaks in
winter and spring, which was a huge
mistake,” said Kim. In retrospect, she
thinks it might have been a better idea
to havejust told them she was free in
the spring. But she figures that giv-
ing up both of her vacations should
pay off in the future.

“It looks good if I look like a hard,
committed worker,” Kim said. “Pay
your price now, so life is a little
easier later.”

Whether they are role-
playing in the real world or
performing at anonymous
venues around the

Southeast, these se-
niors will work to-
wards their future dur-
ing February break
while junior Laura
Cohen and senior
Dana Hood are taking
their sunscreen to the
beaches of Cabo San

PAGE 5

W&life

The condom broke?
Maybe it’s not too late

 

BY GINGER PHHJJPS

STAFF Wanna

guess we just weren ’t prepared. . . I thought we were being safe, but
the condom broke. . . Sure, I ‘m on birth control. I just forget to take it

sometimes. . . What if I 'm pregnant?

The best way to prevent an unwanted pregnancy is the consistent use
of a contraceptive before sex, but sometimes that plan is never made or
simply goes awry. There are many cases in which contraception fails, but in
more than half of the cases of unintentional pregnancy in the United States,
no contraception was used at all However, a drug can be used to prevent
pregnancy after unprotected sexual intercourse has already taken place.

Last year the Food and Drug Administration approved a combination of
two drugs called the emergency contraceptive pill, commonly known as “the
moming-after pill.” The name of this dnig is misleading because the moming-
after pill can actually be used effectively up to 72 hours after unprotected sex.
This emergency treatment consists of two high doses of combination birth
control pills which work before a woman has become pregnant. The first dose,
administered within the first 72 hours after intercourse, is followed by a sec-
ond dose twelve hours later. Women who are unable to take regular birth
control pills are also advised not to seek this treatment.

The pills work by altering the signals that govern hormone release. “The
pill changes the hormonal environment to make impregnation less likely to
occur if there is a fertilized egg,” says Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Health
Services. The fertilized egg is pre-
vented from being implanted inside
the uterus, where it would normally
grow into an embryo. Because the
pill stops implantation, timing is
essential for its success.

The emergency contraception
pill is not to be confused with RU-
486, the so-called “abortion pill.”
RU-486 induces abortion of an im-
planted embryo when used within
the early stages of pregnancy.
Available in Europe and Japan, it
has not been approved by the FDA
for use in the U.S.

The morning after pill has
proven to be very effective. Dur-
ing a woman’s most fertile time of
the month—the five days before
and during ovulation—the risk of
becoming pregnant is about 30 per-
cent. The moming-after pill can reduce that risk by 70 to 90 percent. During
the last ten years of use here at W&L, the pill has only failed once. By
using the treatment, a woman will not know whether or not she would have
become pregnant, the pills may not actually be doing anything at all. How-
ever, with even the slightest possibility of a pregnancy, the pills can pre-
vent the unwanted results of unprotected sex.

About one-third of women experience side effects like nausea, vomiting
and tenderness of the breasts. If the user is unable to keep the pill down, anti-
nausea drugs should be taken before the treatment is repeated. As with most
drugs, there exists the possibility of serious health problems, but none have
been reported in connection with the use of the morning after pill.

C6

The SHC staff doesn ’t
make you feel uncom-
fortable at all. I was
embarrassed, but'z't’s
deﬁnitely better to be
embarrassed than to
be pregnant.

- Anonymous student

77

The Student Health Center offers the moming-after treatment. If a student
wishes to seek treatment, she must go to the SHC as soon as possible and within 72
hours after having unprotected sex. It is not necessary to explain the reason for the
visit until she meets with the nurse or doctor, and the visit is strictly confidential.
The student must sign a consent form before the pills can be administered. Many
students may neglect treatment out of fear of embarrassment. “The SHC staff
doesn’t make you feel uncomfortable at all. I was embanassed, but it’s definitely
better to be embarrassed than to be pregnant,” said a student under the condition
of anonymity.

Many W&L students are unaware
that the moming-after pill is offered
here. Dr. Horton says that dorm coun-
selors are educated about the treat-
ment and that programs such as LIFE
try to inform incoming freshmen about
the consequences of and solutions to

unsafe sex. However, the treatment is cur. Dr. Horton be_
not widely advertised around campus.

“After 1 took the pill, Iwas talking with “eves that 1/1 is is due
a male friend ofmine about it, and he to th e excessive

had no idea what I was talking about,” amo unt of drinking

the same student said. “There are a _
lot of people who don’t know about that goes 0}’! during
these times. ”

the pill. I spent almost three years here
before I heard about it.”

During the 1996-1997 school year,
the moming—aftertreatment was administered 63 times. So farthis year 32
treatments have been given, almost double the amount given in the same
period of time last year. The numbers indicate that more women are seeking
treatment during months in which major W&L social functions occur. Dr.
Horton believes that this is due to the excessive drinking that goes on
during these times. “Alcohol clouds people’s judgements and affects their
appropriate use of contraceptives,” Dr. Horton said. As Fancy Dress nears,
students need to think about the consequences and responsibilities that
can come with bad decisions such as unprotected sex.

The moming-after pill is equivalent to a high dosage of regular birth
control pills. However, the amount of regular pills a student must take
depends on the brand of the pills. While the moming-after pill is what
Horton calls “a wonderful addition to help women with their health needs,”
it is not safe to use as a routine fonn of birth control.

“I only took it once, and I feel that there are probably some people here
that use it as an actual birth control method, and that is not good,” an
anonymous W&L student said. “It is a privilege to have as a service, but
it should not be abused.” She believes that girls should learn something
from their treatment. “You should only make that mistake once—vnot many

“... more women are
seeking treatment
during months in
which major W&L
social functions oc-

 

times,” she said.

(I3 THE MORNING-

AFTER PILL is actually a
series of pills. During the

1 996-1 997 school year, the
treatment was administered
63 times. Pnoro FROM

WWW. 1-‘IRSTC UT. COM

 

CD See TRAVEL page 4

GARRICK OHLSSON will entertain students and faculty Tuesday in the
Lenfest Center. PR1-.‘SS1’H()’l‘()

Concert Guild brings
Ohlsson to Lenfest

PRESS RELEASE
B-HFILB

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Concert Guild will present pianist
Garrick Ohlsson in a performance at 8
p.m. Tuesday in the Lenfest Center.

Ohlsson will open the program with
Beethoven’s Sonata No. 18 in E-ﬂat
Major, followed by Prokofiev’s Sonata
No. 8 in B-ﬂat Major. The remainder of
the program will be works by Chopin:
Ballade No. 2 in F Major, Six Etudes from
Op. 25, Nocturne in F Minor and
Scherzo No.2 in b-ﬂat Minor.

Ohlsson has long been regarded as
one ofthe world’s leading exponents
ofthe music Chopin, although his rep-
ertoire encompasses virtually the en-
tire piano literature. He is also noted
for his masterly performances of the
works of Mozart, Beethoven and
Schubert, as well as music ofthe late
Romantic era. During the 1994-95 and
1995-96 seasons, he gained accolades
for his sold-out cycles ofthe complete
solo works of Chopin performed in
New York City, Toronto, Ann Arbor
and Purchase, NY. He will repeat these
programs this season in London, Paris,
and Warsaw.

He has recorded the complete solo
works of Chopin for Arabesque, as well

as other recordings on Arabesque,
RCA Victor Red Seal, Angel, Bridge.
BMG, Delos, Hanssler, Nonesuch.
Telarc and Virgin Classics labels.

A native of White Plains, N.Y.,
Ohlsson began his piano studies at
the age of eight. He attended the
Westchester Conservatory of Music
and at 13 entered The Julliard School
in New York.

Although he won First Prizes at the
1966 Busoni Competition in Italy and
1968 Montreal Piano Competition, it
was his 1970 triumph as the Gold
Medal winner at the Chopin Competi-
tion in Warsaw that brought him
worldwide recognition as one of the
finest pianists of his generation. He
also won the Avery Fisher Prize in the
Spring of I994.

Ohlsson has appeared as soloist
with many major symphony orches-
tras in the U.S. and in Europe. He is
also an avid chamber musician and.
together with violinist Jorja Fleezanis
and cellist Michael.

Grebanier, is a founding member of
the San Francisco-based FOG Trio.

Tickets are required for W&L’s
Concert Guild Series. For more infor-
mation and reservations. call the
Lenfest Box Office at 463-8000.

 

 

PAGE 4

(D THE

PICTURES OF
THE YEAR will
be on display in ‘
Leybum Library
until the end of
January. The
53rd annual
competition is
sponsored by
the National
Press
Photographers
Association and
the Missouri
School of
Journalism.
H()l.l.lS7ER HoVi:r/
PHOTO E/)I7oR

Photojournalism on display in Leyburn

BY CHRISFINA JULIAN
STAFF \WRl'I‘ER

Standing beneath a multitude of hungry outstretched

hands, a small child hoping to receive a meal gazes
into the crowd.

This picture, by Carol Guzy of The Washington Post,
made her Newspaper Photographer of the Year in “Pic-
tures of the Year,” the 53rd annual competition sponsored
by the National Press Photographers Association and the
Missouri School of Journalism. Washington and Lee stu-
dents have a unique opportunity to see the best pictures
of the year, on display in Leybum Library.

The exhibit, on the main and ﬁrst ﬂoors, will remain in
the library until the end of January. Though journalism
students may find the display particularly interesting, the
pictures are “useful to the wider University community,”

said Hampden Smith, professor of journalism. “They con-
front all of us with the information newspapers give us.
We are able to look at the most dramatic and interesting
photographs which define our time.”

Who could forget the picture from the Oklahoma City
bombing of the fireﬁghter carrying out a small child? Pow-
erful photography leaves an impression on one’s mind
that lingers long after the headlines or stories. “The dis-
play allows us to see and recognize that images we keep in
our head remind us of the good and bad,” said Smith.

“Pictures of the Year” has come to W&L for three years,
and the Journalism Department plans to host the traveling
exhibit again next year.

Smith advised anyone ﬁirther interested in photojournalism
to visit the famous photos on displayuat the Associated Press
Museum in Arlington for its 150th anniversary celebration.

 

W&life

"lncrediblg maTure "his vocal Ta|enT and "...ThoughT provoking
and sophisticated abiliTg on guitar original Tunes that are
songvm-ring" give a strength and Top quayfg"

individual ﬂovor
~ MUSC Reviews Ton familar and: -Bd,mmd Music
imeless Tunes Journal

Quarterlg
~ Rdimond Music
Joumal

APPEARING l|'I'

F73/D/IV JANUARY 30 9.00 //V THE PA V/l/0/V.

(BEE/2 GARDEN)
SPONSORED ray THE OFF/CE OF S71/DE/\/M67/l//7/ES

I.IIIII( EIIII 'I'IIE IIELEASE III‘ THE
PAT IVIl:IiEE Bl|IlII’S NEW
Illl Ill EEBIIIIAIIY 1997!

JANUARY 26, 1998

ILDTRAVEL

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3

Lucas, along the Baja strip in Mexico.

“It’s nice to get away to some place
warm,” said Cohen, who has spent her
past February breaks in St. Lucia and
the Grand Cayman Islands. “We’ll get
a lot of sleep and get a lot of sun.”

Cohen is getting the thrill of vaca-
tioning along with the benefits
of home: she’ 11 get to see her
parents. They knew they
couldn’t get their daugh-  
ter to come home for break, s4
so instead, they’ decided to g o
to the same place. They’re also foot-
ing the bill.

It’s somewhat like bribery, said
Cohen, but she doesn’t mind. Her par-
ents will be celebrating their twenty-
sixth wedding anniversary and it gives
her the opportunity to combine cel-
ebrating with them and vacationing
with a friend. Plus, the parental watch-
dogs will be staying in a different ho-
tel, allowing Cohen and Hood freedom,

without consequences, to check out
the club scene.

When asked if she would set aside
some time from the fruity beverages
and sandy beaches to crack open a
book, Cohen laughed. “I’ll bring [my
work], butl probably won’t do it,” she
said.

While Cohen and Hood are playing
with the colorful umbrellas in their drinks,
eight freshmen will be a d d i n g
marshmallows to their hot
chocolates in

  
    
  
 
   

upstate New York

Freshman Kim Russell has invited
seven friends up to her grandmother’s
sinnrner home on Big WolfLake, near Lake
Placid. Since her grandmother is not there
for the winter, they will have the entire
house to themselves.

Raijah Yarborough, Alexis Yee-
Garcia, Meredith Bryk, Max Ivankov,
Tyler Green, Scott Meister and Pat
Renton willjoin Russell to go skiing,
hang out by the fireplace and relax.

The group of friends has chummed
about together since the beginning of
the school year. They are inseparable,
said Bryk, and the house is just big
enough to give them all a little space.
Bryk is looking forward to spending
time outside of school with everyone.

“Some do [ski], some don’t,” she
said. “We’re all going to learn.”

With eight people, transportation to
upstate New York will prove a bit tricky.
“The plans change daily,” Bryk

said. She and her boyfriend,
Renton, will catch a ride up
to her home in Connecticut,
get her little brother’s car, and then
drive up to New York.

Meister will go home first, then ﬂy
up to meet everyone while the ﬁve oth-
ers will pile in Russell’s car for the trek.

Although this vacation is noth-
ing new for Bryk, who has always
had this week offin high school, she
still appreciates it. Bryk has quickly
learned the reason behind students’
elaborate, and sometimes outra-
geous, February break plans: “Be-
ing in Lexington all winter long
seems to make people stir crazy.”

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee

Counselors for Summer Scholars

July 5-31,1998

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program for 140 rising high
school seniors. Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 students in
Graham-Lees dormitory and plan evening and week-end activities.

Application deadline is February 24, 1998

Special Programs Resident Assistants
June 18-August 5, 1998

The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L students to serve as
Resident Assistants for a wide variety of Special Programs including
Alumni Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all meals with guests, bar receptions, and shuttle
driving. An outgoing personality is a must.
Application deadline, March 15, 1998

For further information, please contact the Office of Special Programs,
Howard House, 463-8723

IIAEELE

For the use of President Elrod’s Parking space
on the hill until the end of the winter tenn

Rafﬂe Tickets
1 for $3.00
2. for $5.00

January 19th - 23rd

in front of the Co-op

Yllll llllll IIIIHIIEE I'I' IIIIME !!

Proceeds go to.....

A HABITAT run l|IlIVIlIIlI'I'Y  

Students...

D
a

Join us for our Super Buffet, only

$5 .99, every Thursday-Saturday night

and Sunday brunch. Every Monday
night students receive 10% off all
entrees. Drink specials available every
weeknight. Delivery available daily with 10% off

to all students

535)

ti-i;......,..9..,..i....<ii.-....rs..,.Cirwi.i...a..i

(behind McDonalds)

463-3330

 

  

JANUARY 26, 1998

RESULTS

Men’s Basketball (8-6)
Wed.: _W&L 65
E&H 62
Women’s Basketball
(7-7)
Tues.: Bridgewater 66
W&L 51
Thur.: W&L 61
Guilford 77
Women’s Swimming
(7-3)
Wed.: W&L 138
Radford 97
Sun.: W&L Late
Emory
W&L Late
Johns Hopkins
Men’s Swimming
(5-3)
Sun.: Johns Hopkins Late
W&L
Emory Late
W&L
Wrestling
W&L Invitational:
4th of 7 teams

AHEAD

Monday

Women’s Basketball —
Emory & Henry,

7:00 p.m., Warner Center

Wednesday

Men’s Basketball —
Hampden—Sydney,

7:30 p.m., Warner Center

Thursday
Women’s Basketball -
at RMWC, 7:00 p.m.

Saturday

Men’s Basketball —
Guilford,

2:00 p.m., Warner Center

Women’s Basketball ——
Guilford,
noon, Warner Center

M&W Swimming -
at Mary Washington,
2:00 p.m.

Wrestling —

W&L Quad
(Swarthmore, Ursinus,
West. Md.), 11:00 a.m.,
Doremus Gym

Men rally from 14
point deficit to
beat E&H 65-62

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
-j‘*1=“*:‘ SPORTS VY/Rmaz

Men’s basketball coach Kevin
Moore says this years Generals bas-
ketball team is a different kind of team
than years past.

On Wednesday night there was
even more evidence that the Generals
are for real when W&L pulled off an
unbelievable second half comeback
that left both Emory & Henry and the
rest ofthe King Center in shock.

Rich Peterson scored 17 of his sea-
son—high 23 points in the second half
as the Generals overcame a 36-22
halftime deﬁcit to down the Wasps
65-62 in Emory, Va. The win im-
proved the Generals to 8-6 overall and
5-3 in the ODAC as they prepare for
their showdown with first place
Hampden—Sydney on Wednesday
night

“This year our team is different,”
commented Moore. “We have so
much more conﬁdence and we have
a lot more character. If that was last
year’s team or even the year before,
we would have given up at halftime.”

Emory & Henryjumped out to the
first halflead behind the hot shooting
of Patrick Moore, who hit four three-
pointers in the first half and ﬁnished
with 15 points for the game. Sloppy
play and poor execution contributed
to the Generals’ first half deﬁcit.
Coach Moore was upset with the play
of his team at halftime and let his play-
ers know about it.

“1 did a little yelling at halftime and
let the guys know how bad a half they
played,” said Moore. “We played as

bad a half as you could play.”

But as bad as the Generals played
in the first half, they turned it around
and showed some of their best bas-
ketball in the second half. Tremen-
dous play by sophomore Rich
Peterson, freshman Will Ballard, and
senior captain Kelly Dyer brought the
Generals charging back and put them
in position to pull off the comeback.

“I was really pleased the way the
guys stepped it up in the second half,”
said Moore. “Kelly [Dyer] came up
with some huge shots, Rich [Peterson]

had his best game of the year, and Will .

[Ballard]gave us a huge boost.”
Ballard finished with 15 points and

ﬁve steals for the Generals while Dyer

added 12, including a series of piv-

otal base line jumpers down the .

stretch. W&L took the lead for the
first time, 62-60, after freshman
Ballard made an impressive open-
court steal and lay-up with less than
2:00 remaining. Eric Owsley ex-
tended the lead to 63-60 with a free-
throw before Emory & Henry’s
Donald Thurston scored on a lay-up
with 47 seconds left to make the score
63-62.

With 15 seconds left in the game
and the shot clock running down,
Dyer buried a 15-footer from the left
baseline to give the Generals a 65-62
lead. E&H had two chances to tie the
score as they got off two three-point
attempts but couldn’t ﬁnd the net; they
walked off shocked at the events in
the closing minutes.

Now all eyes turn to Wednesday
night as W&L hosts first place

PAGE 5

Hampden—Sydney, who have only lost
twice all year, once against the Gen-
erals, 44-42 in early December. The
Tigers hadn’t lost a game from that
defeat by W&L until Saturday night,
when they lost 80-75 to the same
Emory & Henry team W&L beat last
Wednesday.

“lt’s a big game, but I told the guys

we have nothing to lose,” commented
Moore. “We already beat them once
and they’re supposed to win. All the
pressure is on them, not to mention
we’re playing them at home.”

Tip-offis at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday
at the Warner Center. W&L will also
host Guilford College at the Warner
Center Saturday at 2:00 p.m.

Elway, Broncos and AFC end frustration

At 9:45 pm. last night, hellfroze over.

For the ﬁrst time in be last 14 years,
an AFC team won the Super Bowl.
When the Los Angeles Raiders beat the
Washington Redskins 38-9, for an AFC
team’s last championship in 1984,
Rockwell and Wham! were still popu-
lar, nobody had yet hard of Geraldine
Ferraro and Jim Bakker still wanted
your money. I only vaguely remem-
ber watching that game, and it certainly
would have been hard to fathom that I
would be a senior in college before an
AFC team won again.

THE BIG FAN

BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER

Would you like to work at a
Wyoming Guest Ranch this summer?

The A-Bar-A Guest Ranch is on 140,000 private acres of southern Wyoming,
surrounded by national forest and wilderness area. We have openings in all
areas of guest services. If you are available from early June to late August or
the end of September, we would like to talk with you about the possibility of
working with us this summer. The manager, Bob Howe, will be interviewing
on campus February 2. To arrange an interview or get an application check
at the Careers Ofﬁce. Or, check us out on—line and get an application at:
www.coolworks.com/a-bar—a/default.him Questions? Call (303) 838-1950 or

While the AFC has been frustrated
for all these years, one of the teams most
indicative of this frustration was the
Denver Broncos. Before the Buffalo
Bills came along, the Broncos were
identified as the epitome of a choker.
They lost the Super Bowl three times
during the ’80s. Counting the one they
lost in 1978, the Broncos would have
set a record with five Super Bowl losses
if they had dropped this year’s game.

But when John Mobley batted away
Brett Farve’s fourth and six pass to seal

email us at: abararanc/1@a0l.c0m.

- Denver’s 3 1-24 victory over the Green :

Bay Packers, all the frustration came
to a halt. For the AFC, the Broncos
and especially John Elway. The quar-
terback who has won the most regular
season games ever could never even
come close in the big one, and who
gave him a chance this year?

The Packers had demolished San
Francisco on the road, had a three-time
MVP at quarterback and were 12-point
favorites against a four-time Super
Bowl loser. Green Bay had never lost
a Super Bowl. Was there any doubt?

I told anybody who asked me in
the last few days that I thought Den-
ver would either win or at least keep
the game close. And no, I’m not just
saying that in a paﬂietic attempt to look
smart. This year, the Broncos ﬁelded
the most gutsy and complete team that
the AFC has seen in more than a de-
cade. After all, they became the first
wild card team since the 1980 Raiders
to win the Super Bowl. In doing so,
they completed a revenge tour by beat-
ing the team that knocked them out of
the playoffs last year (Jacksonville),
two teams that beat them this year
(Kansas City and Pittsburgh) and then
winning the elusive Super Bowl.

Denver had the type of team

condusive to keeping the Super Bowl
close, because unlike previous AFC
representatives, the Broncos were not
one—dimensional. This year, they had
Terrell Davis, a solid offensive line and
a decent defense. The ironic thing about
last night’s game was that Elway was
nowhere near his best. He was an un-
spectacular 12 for 22 for 123 yards and
threw a costly interception in the end
zone. The Broncos still managed to win.

They can thank Davis for that. Talk
about guts. This guy sat out the second
quarter with a migraine and still rushed
for 157 yards and a record three touch-
downs. Time and time again, he pierced
the heart of the vaunted Packers de-
fense. The victory was certainly no
ﬂuke. Denver did what it had to do by
pressuring Favre into making several
bad decisions, and it dominated Green
Bay at the line of scrimmage.

ygetting warmer

If you had a choice, wouldn’t you choose fresh, hot food over food
that's been left sitting under heat lamps? Then choose Subway,

where you can get our Steak 8c Cheese, Subway Melt or our
Roasted Chicken sub, hot and fresh on bread that’s just out of the

0VC1'l.

110

 

tilt

www.subway.com
- Nu" l)Ht’It>[’~.\\~u\I.ll\'~lllt

Subway Sandwiches & Salads
453 E. Nelson St.

Lexington

Regardless of the outcome, it was a
wonderful game to watch. Green Bay
showed plenty of guts themselves,
twice erasing deﬁcits, and had every fan
on the edge of his seat during their ﬁ-
nal drive. And Bill Romanowski didn’t
even spit on anyone. Finally, a game
worthy of being a Super Bowl!

Although it was nice for sentimen-
tal reasons to see Denver and Elway
ﬁnally get the money offtheir backs,
it was also nice to see the AFC losing
streak broken. The streak has been
over-hyped in recent years, making
it sound like the AFC was an inferior
conference against the NFC. Now the
NFL is back to square one, and writ-
ers and fans can focus on the teams
next year instead of the streak. Hope-
fully that will still be the casein 2010
when the NFC again wins the Super
Bowl 

(‘gin

    

THE
suB.ii.iii.:r
SHOULD BE.

 

phone:
(540)463-3322

All set and ready
for Spring to arrive

Pre-season All-American
Ed Dougherty leads the
#11 Generals towards the
elusive NCAA tournament
bid. Here, Dougherty
celebrates a goal in last
year’s Lee-Jackson Classic.
Men’s lacrosse opens their
season Feb. 25 at Guilford.

Women’s lacrosse, ranked
#8 at the end of last season,
opens the 1998 campaign
Mar. 4 against Guilford.

The #4 Women’s tennis
team looks to continue
their NCAA dominance
when they open their

season on March 4 against
Randolph-Macon.

Men’s Tennis is ranked
#18 in Division III heading
into their opener Feb. 26 at
Radford.

Check out previews of all
of these spring sports and
more next week in the Phi.

Women
drop two,
fall to .500

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

It was a tough week for the Gener-
als, going 0-2 last week with a pair of
disheartening losses. On Tuesday
W&L lost to an amazing Bridgewater
team, 66-51.

Bridgewater came into the game
undefeated and ranked #1 in the
South. On Thursday the Generals fell
to Guilford 77-61 in Greensboro, NC.
The Generals now stand at 7-7 over-
all and 4-7 in the ODAC.

Tuesday at the Warner Center the
Generals led Bridgewater 29-28 at the
half and were tied with the Eagles 37-
37 with 15:00 left in the game. How-
ever, the Lady Eagles outscored W&L
29-14 in the ﬁnal 15:00 to remain un-
defeated at 14-0. The Generals used
a combination of suffocating man-to-
man defense and red hot shooting to
gain the lead in first half as Sopho-
more guard Ansley Miller had four

steals andjunior center Amber Hinkle
had 13 points in the ﬁrst half.

The Generals seemed to run out of
gas during the second half as fatigue
seemed to play a large role down the
stretch. Only seven players saw ac-
tion for the Generals while ten play-
ers hit the floor for Bridgewater. Jun-
ior forward Connie Ritchie led the
way for Bridgewater with 19 points.
Miller had 19 for the Generals while
Hinkle ﬁnished with 15.

On Thursday the Generals seemed
to suffer from bus lag as they dropped
a 15 point decision to Guilford in
Greensboro, N.C. Sloppy play and
lack of intensity plagued the Gener-
als as they were within striking dis-
tance of Guilford for most of the game
but just could not put together a rally.
W&L shot 57 percent from the ﬁeld
in the ﬁrst half but the Generals ﬁn-
ished with a season high 32 turnovers,
18 of them in the ﬁrst half as W&L
fell trailed 34-25 at the half.

The 1-2 punch of Laura Haynes
and Marija Preimats was too much for
the Generals to handle as Haynes
scored 29 and Preimats poured in 28,
accounting for 57 of Guilford’s 77
points. Miller was the Generals’ high
scorer once again with 19. Hinkle
added 14 and Chrissy Burghardt had
10 in the losing effort. The win im-
proved Guilford to 7-7 overall and 5-
5 in the ODAC.

The Generals host Emory & Henry
tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the Warner
Center. On Thursday they travel to
Randolph-Macon Women’s College
and they play the first game of a
double-header on Saturday at noon at
the Warner Center against Guilford.

 

    

PAGE 6

'1

JANUARY 26, 1998

I1€WS

NEW ZEALAND PROFESSOR TO SPEAK

THURSDAY

Neil McNaughton will speak on Thursday Jan. 29 at 4:30 p.m.
in room A214 ofthe New Science Center. His lecture is entitled,
“Interdisciplinary Recursion: How the Rat’s Brain Can Tell Us
About Human Anxiety.” McNaughton is a native of Scotland,
and now teachers at the University of Otago in New Zealand.
His visit is sponsored by W&L’s Neuroscience Program.

MASTER PLAN FORUM TO BE HELD,

THURSDAY JAN 29 AT 7 P.M.

W&L will hold an informal public forum on its proposed mas-
ter plan on Thursday, Jan. 29, at 7:00 p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge
in the University Center at the corner of Washington Street and
Lee Avenue. The public is invited to attend. Drawings of the
preliminary master plan will be on display during the public fo-
rum. Contact the W&L News Office at 463-8460 for more infor-
mation.

USSO, ROMANIAN PIANIST TO PRESENT
RHAPSODY IN BL UE AT LENFEST

Renowned Romanian pianist Mihai Ungureanu will serve as
soloist for the Jan. 31 performance of George Gershwin’s Rhap-
sody in Blue by the University-Shenandoah Symphony Orches-
tra. Barry Kolman, W&L’s associate professor of music and
music director of USSO, will conduct. The performance will be
held at the Lenfest Center at 8:00 p.m. Admission is free and
open to the public. For more information, ca1l462-4535.

W&L FILM SOCIETY TO SHOW “THE

BLUE KITE” FRIDAY JAN. 30

“The Blue Kite,” a powerful Chinese drama, will be presented
by the W&L Film Society and International Club, in conjunction
with Captive Nations Week. Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on
Friday Jan. 30 and Saturday Jan 31 in the Troubadour Cinema, at
the corner of Main and Henry streets. Admission is free. The
film is in Mandarin, with English subtitles.

“The Blue Kite” is directed by Tian Zhuangzhuang, and won
the Grand Prize at the Cannes Film Festival in 1993. Chroni-
cling the first 20 years of communist rule in China through the
destinies ofa child born in 1954 and that of his mother, the film
earned international acclaim. However, Tian Zhuangzhuang was
blacklisted by China’s Ministry of Film, Television and Culture
for the film’s controversial themes.

PULITIZER PRIZE WINNING PLAY,

CRIMES OF THE HEART AT LENFEST,

W&L’s first production of 1998 will be Crimes of the Heart
by Beth Henley. The play won the Pulitzer prize and the New
York Drama Critics Circle Award in 1981. Crimes of the Heart
will be presented on Feb. 6, 7, 9 and 10 at 8:00 p.m. and on Feb.
8 at 2:00 p.m. For information or reservations call the Lenfest
box office at 463-8000.

GENERALPROBE, GERMAN COMEDY AT

LENF EST FEB. 6-7

On Feb. 6-7, GENERALPROBE will perform the two-act com-
edy Hin und Her (Back and Forth) by the Austrian dramatist Odon
von Horvath. The show begins at 8:00 p.m. in the Keller The-
ater. Admission is free.

GENERALPROBE is a group of W&L German students, «fac-
ulty and friends dedicated to German language drama. The play
will be performed in German, and a detailed English synopsis
will be provided in the program. The comedy takes place on a
bridge between two hostile countries — a bridge on which, in
one short night, a homeless man takes up residence, couples fall
in love, drunks drink, smugglers smuggle, guards let their guard
down, the human spirit triumphs over adversity and a grouchy
man catches a very large fish.

RICHARDSON TO GIVE CLASS OF ’62
LECTURE FEB.i5

Associate Professor of Journalism Brian E. Richardson, ’73,
will present this year’s Class of 1962 Fellowship Lecture on
Thursday Feb. 5 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. The title
ofhis lecture is “Britain 2,000: The Millennium is the Message.”
The lecture is open to the public and will be followed by a recep-
tion. During the 1996-97 academic year, Richardson taught at
the University of Birmingham, England, and did research at Ox-
ford University on the British media’s coverage of the 1996
American presidential election and the 1997 Parliamentary elec-

tions in UK. His lecture will focus on Britain and the British’

media coverage at the threshold ofthe millennium. The Class of
1962 Fellowship Program was established in 1987 with a gift of
an endowment to support the scholarship and research ofthe un-
dergraduate faculty.

UFFELMAN LEAVES LENFEST CENTER
TAKES COMMUNICATIONS POST,

Former assistant to the managing director of the Lenfest Cen-
ter Louise E. Uffelman has assumed the position of communica-
tions writer at W&L. She will work with both the publications
and the news offices to develop write and produce news releases,
stories for the Alumni magazine and other publications as needed.
She will also assist with media visits to the campus. Uffelman
assumed the position on Jan. 1.

PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS PHILIPS

EARN S DISTINGUISHED AWARD

Charles F. Philips Jr., the Robert G. Brown Professor of Eco-
nomics at W&L, was honored at the annual meeting ofthe Trans-
portation and Public Utilities Group ofthe American Economic
Association. He received the group’s 1997 distinguished mem-
ber award “for significant contributions to the field during his

career.” During the meeting, Philips also chaired two sessions,

presented a paper titled, “Social Objectives in an Era of Deregu-
lation,” and concluded his two-year term (for the third time) as
President of Omicron Delta Epsilon, the international honor so-
ciety in economics.

Considered one of the foremost authorities of industrial orga-
nization, corporate economics and government regulation of busi-
ness, Phillipsjoined the economics department at W&L in 1959.
His book, The Regulation ofPublic Utilities, now in its third edi-
tion, is widely used by experts in the field.

-— Compiled by Heather McDonald

"-

 WAT E R

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

of the stage.”

“The place was packed,” Woody said.

“It does get really crowded in the base-

ment,” Chi Psi Social Chair Anthony Allen
said. “But I don’t really think that it is an
issue for us because the way the basement
is set up, people spill out into the other
room.”

Someone pulled down a pipe over Par-
ents Weekend too, Woody said. “A per-
son was standing on some risers we put
up, they lost their balance, and grabbed
onto the pipe.” Woody said they have

‘(:3 G U LAG

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

ing to the United States. He has
testified on several occasion be-
fore congressional committees on
Chinese human rights violations.

Wu has visited China four
times since 1991 on his quest to
elucidate its twilight prison re-
gime. On his most recent trip Wu
again fell victim to the system he
is fighting, when he was impris-
oned for several months, accused

Tuesday

 

Snow
Showers
High: 41°
Low: 34°

Wednesday I

 

Partly
Cloudy
High: 47°
Low: 34°

since moved the risers.

Since all of the pipes in Chi Psi base-
ment are exposed, there is always the dan-
ger of something like this happening,
Woody said. “We might try to strengthen
the pipes in some way.”

“Our pledges were real all-stars,” said
Woody. “As soon as the pipe broke, they
were already sweeping it outside with
brooms.’

Before the pipe broke, it was the best
party at Chi Psi in a long time, Woody
said. “It was tragic for it to end so
soon.”

He pointed out that it could have
been a lot worse. “Someone could have
pulled the hot water pipe.”

of spying.

US pressure facilitated his re-
lease, but his struggle continues.

Three of Wu’s books have be-
come New York Times bestsellers:
Laogais The Chinese Gulag; A
Memoir of My Years in China's
Gulag; and Troublemaker.‘ One

Man ’s Crusade Against China ’s‘

Cruelty.

China’s human rights record
has been under the spotlight over
the past year, with the handover
of Hong Kong and the visit to the
USA in October 1997 of Chinese
president Jiang Zemin.

Guess who?

Both of these bands played at Washington
and Lee in past years. E-mail the correct
names of the bands to phi@w|u.edu by 12
a.m. Tues. to be eligible for a random draw.
The winner will receive‘ an ice cream sundae
from Sweet Things, complements of the Phi.

Cl/75
COZO/P

6010/?
60/Q/PE6 l/0/V

F0/Z//\/6

0990

The Crystal Tower Building
131 West Campbell Avenue
Roanoke, Virginia 24011
(540) 342 2460

LAWRENCE

This Weeks Weather:

Thursday

Showers

High: 45°
Low: 34°

 

Saturday

   

Partly
Cloudy
High: 45°
Low: 33°

Fire and
Brimstone
High: 45°
Low: 30°

Hard Rain
High: 46°
Low: 29°

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

 

 

PAGE 7

Lip synch or strip show?

Friday night’s lip synch proved that sex not
only sells, it buys tons of food for area food banks.
With 32 acts, the biggest show in its 12-year

history, this year’s should have come with a
parental advisory and a NC-17 rating (for full-
frontal male nudity.)

These acts were comprised mostly of Greek
members, who bared chests and genitalia to tunes
like “I’m too Sexy” and “It’s Raining Men.” Not
only were members of the student body and
faculty treated to a musical review of pop hits
from the 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s, they got a glimpse
of sorority and fraternity unmentionables.

Audience members were exposed to male
genitalia, bare butts in white spandex, countless
male chests, (some hairy, most not), a lot of
women’s legs, views up their skirts, really tight
halter tops and really tight pants.

Those groups who performed fully clothed won
the judges heart. Chi Omega, with two squeaky
clean acts, took first and second place. Their skits
lacked originality (“Men in Black” was a direct
copy of the video) but the dancers were well
choreographed and clothed from head to toe.

The beer garden ran out of beer well before 11
p.m. The guffaws and fall—outs of this year’s show
drove many an upperclassman to the beer garden
in search of reprieve.

Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger
limited the number of students participating in
each act which increased the number of acts in the
show. It also seemed to have increased the amount
of skin shown on stage.

Although the show has a history of drunken
revelry and skin thrills, this year the tradition
reached an all-time low. The crap on stage was
comparable to the crap spewed during Chi Psi’s
after hours water pipe spill.

Members of the last act refused to let the
tradition of ripping apart the stage die. In a last
minute frenzy they pulled down the stage’s white
lattice supports and were then booted off stage.

Washington and Lee students need to learn that
the °°Uras.e.£0 .I2<“«.rf9rm doesnfl some in. ..a..ﬂask-
Drunkiiisiiiyt always funny. There are only so many
times Slimer can fall on her ass. The winners of
this year’s lip synch were well choreographed and
sober enough to remember the moves. It is a
disgrace to the W&L community when men fall
out of their pants, tear down the stage and girls
willingly offer a glimpse up their skirts.

“ J i uote of the Week:

Alcohol uplifts the spirit
and brings it closer to God.

—— Politics professor quoting an
Islamic sect from Albania

7)

Ellis ﬁling-tum lﬁlti

Executive Editors Courtney Miller

Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Will Hardie
Heather McDonald
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

Sick of ideology? This club’s for you

“... and thank God that I just don’t care.”

—— The Velvet Underground, Heroin

Here at Washington and Lee, the ﬁve or six campus
liberals can join the College Democrats. The College
Democrats provide a forum for discussing the best way
to ruin everyone’s future with idiotic social programs.

}’,The Loony Bin
  Mclvlanemin 00

Those with even fewer brain cells, and who are able to
trace at least one ancestor back to the Mayﬂower, can
join the College Republicans. Or, if you just like root-
ing for losing teams (like you Denver fans) the Col-
lege Libertarians provide a great forum for becoming
familiar with the concession speech.

But what about the rest of us? What about us cyni-
cal Generation X-ers who don’t give half a holy hoot
about the petty world of politics? What about those of
us too lazy and too jaded to possibly care?

Well I’m founding a club for all of us slackers: The

 

Apathetic Student Society. Our mission is to promote
the political ideals of "apathy. In order to do this, we’re
never going to meet, we’re never going to sponsor de-
bates or rallies; in fact, we’re never going to do anything.
The Apathetic Student Society promises not to try and
shove some ridiculous ideology down your throat. If you
don’t agree with us, we don’t care. We’re the only club
willing to admit that we have no idea what’s best for you.
We hope that no one will show up for these events:

Apathetic Student Society Winter Schedule
January 29th —— nothing

February 15th — nothing

February 30th —— nothing

March 5th — nothing

You see, the political doctrine of apathy (founded in
Athens, 485 BC by Apatheticus, the town drunkard)
doesn’t involve time-wasting chores like protest rallies,
letter writing campaigns or voting. We believe in solv-
ing problems by ignoring them in the hopes that they’ll
go away by themselves. Sure, our political methods of
watching TV and playing video games strike our oppo-

  

15 Minutes of Shame

 
   
 
  

¢¢,¢p_g,,;-r _e</Ir:-~‘rs lo

(Dues k rwv.
-gu-opu~l6 ISPACGKM

HA5 ANYONE EVSE
HA9 AN flFFmtt wmt
pnesroeﬂ ¢u~‘f°~?

 
     
      

  
 

   

FIN
4I‘L‘4‘Lt‘l m"-'ms A
ﬁlls Luvs‘! T*5“I¢‘l‘

Poor Chelsea

 
   

Journalism ethics shouldn’t
be an oxymoron at W&L

Journalism Ethics.

All around campus, students break out into laughter as
I put these two words together in a sentence (and no, not
just FlJI’s). When I told people I was taking an indepen-
dent study class injournalism ethics this winter, the jokes
flowed naturally fro their lips. There were witty remarks
like, “Joumalism ethics? That must be a short course,”
or, “Not much history of that, is there?”

 

Journalists often get a bad rap for being, shall we say,
ethically challenged. Frequently, the accusation is war-
ranted, as the cases of Diana, Princess of Wales and oth-
ers have amply demonstrated. The journalism department
at Washington and Lee is at least doing its share to change
that reputation by offering its students an expanding num-
ber of classes in ethics. However, the rest of W&L does
not seem to be following the joumalism department’s lead.

This university is better suited than most for the teach-
ing of ethics and morals, which is basically the question
of “How ought we to live?” As members of the W&L
community, we have committed ourselves to a moral phi-
losophy, embodied in the Honor System. We have
pledged not to lie, cheat, steal or commit other breaches
of trust. Every day, in and out of class, we strive to up-
hold these principles.

    

“I think it was just a plot by Chi
Psi to have a wet t-shirt contest.”
— Carly Nasca ’0O

  

“Gaﬁldeﬁsh — and lots of it.”

Strangely, though, few students at W&L receive much,
if any, instruction in ethics. It would seem logical that at a
school where morality is cherished, campus discussion about
morality and ethics would continue beyond the occasional
White Book review and the night during Freshman Orien-
tation when the Executive Committee screens its video on
the Honor System. Granted, the video is effective, as well
as scary enough to require a change of underwear, but eth-
ics and morality are far more complex than a short list of
prohibitions.

For example, in the journalism ethics survey class I took
last term, we touched on 13 separate topics involving what
it means to be an ethical journalist. I can’t imagine how
many topics could be involved in what it takes to live an
ethical life. Yet we seem content to limit the teaching of
morality and honor to that Honor System video and its ad-
monitions not to lie, cheat, or steal.

W&L’s website says that “Honor is the moral comer-
stone of Washington and Lee University.” Having lived
here for almost four years, I don’t doubt that. The Honor
System should remain our moral cornerstone. But shouldn’t
we be thinking more about how to live honorably, as op-
posed simply to how not to’? Why not require all incoming
freshmen to take at least one class in ethics? Clearly, stu-
dents who come to this school want to live honorably. As
a university we should start them down that path. As a
community, we should be doing more to help students who
pass through this university become ethical people, not
merely educated people.

 

clear.”
— Dan Grattan ’00

 

“All I know is that it was not

—— Jessica Helm ’00

nents as foolish and irresponsible. They claim we’re wast-
ing our lives. But our philosophy is: politics, schmolitics.
We’ll all be dead in a hundred years anyway.

Perhaps you’re unsure whether or not this radical ide-
ology is for you. Here are a few of the bold positions we’ve
taken on some of today’s hottest issues:

Abortion: Who cares?

Drugs: None of our business.

Taxes: Whatever.

Gun control: Hey, Ihope I’m not missing The Simpsons

Education: Oh, wait, they’re not on for another hour.

We will also speak out on campus issues. For example,
we couldn’t care less about this new smoking policy. And
if we have to read one more boring article in the campus
papers about pledgeship, we’re going to shoot ourselves.

I’m convinced that if we all work together, we can re-
ally accomplish nothing this year. With a little indiffer-
ence and a lot of indolence, our club can one day become
almost as politically impotent and useless as the College
Democrats. Now if you’ll excuse me, it’s nap time.

The Apathetic Student Society

Unity - Apathy - Nap time

“So lazy that we don ’t even bother ﬁnishing our”

Sleeping around
on campus

I’m tired. You’re tired. We’re all tired.

Chances are, you are one of the many people on campus
who didn’t get enough sleep this week. It’s equally likely
that you won’t get enough sleep next week, either. Or the
week after that. And so on.

It’s a big tradeoff: If you stay awake longer each day,
you can get more work done, but if you stay awake too
long, you’ll sleep all the next day and your dreams of aca-
demic success will be shot straight to Patagonia.

So what should you do? I couldn’t begin to tell you. But
I will offer you some things to consider:

  

 d Balsley 99

 

First, the longest anyone has voluntarily stayed awake is
11 days, 18 hours and 55 minutes, according to the 1971
edition of the Guinness Book of World Records. Bertha
Van Der Merwe accomplished that feat in 1968, effectively
bringing new meaning to the term “all-nighter.”

Second, researchers have recently found that the platy-
pus spends up to eight hours a day in REM sleep, according
to the Sep. 8 issue of Science News. This means that if you
too were a platypus, you could potentially get more sleep
than what you get now.

Third, the Reid Hall library is the best place on campus
to sleep. Oh yes it is. Between its comfortable couches and

_ near 8_(_)-d_egree_temperatures, the J-school library is an ideal.

place to conk out for a day or two. (Honorable mention-
goes to the fourth ﬂoor Parmly reading room - it takes home
special merits for its reclining lounge seat.)

Fourth, it is not a good idea to sleep anywhere on cam-
pus where guided tours are lead. I once woke up in the
library only to find about a dozen high school seniors and
their parents standingjust beyond my head. This is not an
experience you want to have. Trust me on this one.

Sweet dreams.

“I thought it was sh-t — there were
brown chunks all over me!”

— Ross Hinkle ’O0

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8

la”§f"‘i3"§”7””<r3”fd

JANUARY 26, 1998

Bathroom Wars: The Battle of the Sexes stakes new territory

ByI.izDetter

W&Life Editor

he fumbles with her keys, hopping from leg to leg
as she unlocks the door. She dashes in and makes

a beeline for the bathroom. Hikes up her skirt and
pulls down her knickers, leans back to sit, when “Eeek!”
escapes her lips
as she feels the
icy cold water
of the bowl hit
her rear.

She fell in.
It’s a terrible feel-
ing, reminiscent
of childhood.
She curses as
she stands up
and reaches for
atowel.

He did it
again. No mat-
ter how many

I I
I
By Alex Cliristensen _ .
Phi Movie Critic

Everything about “Titanic” is huge: the story, the
history, the ﬁlm itself, the expense of putting it on the
screen, and, most of all, writer and director James
Cameron’s vision of a grand love story as the emo-
tional foreground for his unprecedented recreation of
an unprecedented historical event. And it all works -
except that last part.

I realize that I may be stepping on some toes. The
American public has made it clear that it thinks this ﬁlm
is the return of Hollywood grandeur, cinematic
storytelling at its ﬁnest, a beautiful, compelling trag-
edy. There’s even Oscar talk: “Titanic” is the
frontrunner, though “L.A. Conﬁdential” may yet have
some surprises in store.

But it turns out the main action
of this story of star-crossed lovers
Jack (Leonardo DiCaprio at his most
embarrassing) and Rose (Kate
Winslet, a cipher), is a colossal fail-
ure.

In a ﬁlm of such bigness, I truly
think some people have tried to ex-
cuse the corny, melodramatic, unbe-
lievable, uninteresting love story by
tying it up with the really very well
realized disaster. They let the emo-
tional intensity ofthe disaster bleed
over into the hokey love story until
it seems like a smoldering romance
on the order of Hugh Grant and
Kristin Scott-Thomas in “Four Wed-
dings and a Funeral.”

The ﬁrst time we see Jack, he’s gambling in a tavern.
“When you ain’t got nothing, you ain’t got nothing to
lose,” he says, ﬂashing that movie-star grin. It’s a line
from Bob Dylan’s “Like a Rolling Stone.” Is this a criti-
cism? Not in itself. But Jack doesn’t get one ounce more
character development. DiCaprio, in interviews, says it
was a challenge to portray Jack, a “free spirit,” “an art-
ist.” Well, that’s what Jack is. A free spirit. An artist.
That’s all. Rose is the rich girl who learns something.
Period.

DiCaprio and Winslet seem genuinely at sea in this
cheap little affair. They are given some of the worst
dialogue I’ve heard on screen since the legendary

C C disaster of

“Things to Do in
Denver When
You’re Dead.” In
that film, the
c h a r a c t e r s
seemed to be
speaking Mad

DiCaprio and
Winslet seem genu-
inely at sea in this
cheap little affair.
9’ Libs, and they
actually had to

stop every few minutes to deﬁne the ludicrous, invented
slang they used. In “Titanic,” the characters speak in
song lyrics and anachronistic phrases when they’re not
simply exchanging some ofthe most predictable “love
sugar” I’ve ever heard. I’m not cynical. I can appreciate

Colonnade Club

 
  

  
   
 
   
    

/70M? MEN’.
Weeéz 11/91”
A MMVLETE
i,i\1,q4pFMoF»°<1/W’!
@ozN6' 0N ttﬁzﬁ’.

   

fl”

5%’

times she tells him, he still refuses to put the seat
down. Why? What is it about the male psyche that
creates a mental block about this small gesture of
civility?

If he could see her -— pathetic, knees at chest-level,

can tell himself that he’s not whipped, that he’s still his
own man, in charge of his own life, a carefree bachelor
who makes his own rules. Dammit, he’s lord ofthe toilet!
King John would probably laugh at the vision of
his little woman sputtering and muttering with fury
over his inconsiderate-

he laugh, or would he
learn? Her mom finally
won the bathroom war
with her father when he
saw his sad little girl,
embarrassed, lower lip

stuck in the loo — would C ‘

He’ll never know the shock of frigid
porcelain on bare skin and the sting
of cold water on exposed ﬂesh.

ness. He wouldn’t see it
from her perspective, that
little things like this can
make all the difference.
From her point of view,

quivering and eyes
filled with tears, her
little tush all wet from her first plunge into the toilet.
That was enough for her dad to relent, repent and
redeem himself by reforming his behavior. He’s been
a kind and considerate man ever since, careful to
replace the seat after each use.

But not this guy, oh no! With him it’s a matter of
pride. His refusal stands as a symbol of his indepen-
dence, his unwillingness to succumb to her control. He

Even Cameron
can’t keep it up

love stories. This one is just hollow.

The ship’s great. Don’t get me wrong. Cameron shows
us the Titanic. That’s why the ﬁlm gets two and a half
stars: just on the edge ofa thumbs-down, but not quite.
You’ve got to see the ship. The problem is, these se-
quences work so well, you start to think. You’re actu-
ally down there in the wreck. And you’re not alone.
There are thousands of ghosts there with you. They
want their story told. Cameron had the best chance to
bring it to life, and he decided to write a hackneyed
teen adventure-romance.

When I ﬁrst saw the previews for “Titanic,” I was
very excited. Cameron brings us an epic. I’m ready. But

 

-PUBUCITY PHOTO

it’s just simple courtesy to
”leave things the way you
ﬁnd them. You close the cabi-
net door after opening it; you replace the milk in the
refrigerator after using it; you clean up your own mess.
These are the rules that her mom taught her, and like
any good daughter, she grew up to expect others to
play fair. It’s a simple matter of good breeding, of at-
tention to detail, of her right to set the standards of
conduct in her own apartment, of respect for her and
women everywhere.

’ The pitch:

{.7}. .. - |t’|I be like
‘ ' ‘T2’ meets
‘A Night to
Remember.’

  

the trailer also made me nervous. From the action, it -

seemed to me that the ﬁlm might turn from an epic re-
telling ofthe Titanic disaster to a cheap love story with
a contrived jewel—heist/gun—chase ending. Boy. I was
never so right. Anyone who actually believed Billy
Zane’s character (What was his name again? Snidely
Whiplash?) chasing the young lovers into the bowels
ofthe sinking Titanic deserves to see this ﬁlm over and
over again. As for me, it’s on to anything else.

He’ll never
know the shock
of frigid porcelain
on bare skin and
the sting of cold
water on exposed
ﬂesh. He thinks she
can learn to antici-
pate the lingering re-
minder ofhis mascu-
line presence in her
feminine domain, that
it’s a fair tradeoff for
the other benefits of
his visits to her abode.

But she’ll have her re-
venge. As she gets ready
for their rendezvous at his place, she slips
something extra-special into her bag. It’s a roll of
cellophane. He’ll have a nice surprise waiting for
him when he stumbles blindly into the bathroom in
the morning. Better hope he has a mop.

Wannaraisehell?

Doyourfriendstellyoutoputa
sockin it?

Do you see yourself as a critic-

at-large?

lfyouansweryestoatleastone
of these three questions,
you should be writing for
the Last Word.

Sushi at Sake Housein Salem

Serving sushi at Wilson Field? Unfortunately for
you folks from California (where they would actually
do something like that), we don’t think so. If you still
need a ﬁx of raw ﬁsh, there is a great little place down in
Salem that will take very good care ofyou. Sake House
also serves many other traditional Japanese dishes to
appeal to the average person, who may not like sushi.
We drove down to Sake House on a Saturday
evening with Doug’s roommate, Justin, whose grand-
mother is Japanese, and his visiting friend Rachel
from Vanderbilt, who is a vegetarian. The four of us
were a diverse group with varying tastes, so we tried a
variety of dishes.

Beginning with the appetizers, we all enjoyed miso
soup, a light broth with tofu and green onions, and a
green salad with the house dressing, a tasty light gin-
ger.Doug and Robin sampled the plum wine, a sweet

 

seven

MONDAY 53? 7 p.m. Women’s B-ball vs.
Emory & Henry 31¢ 7 p.m. “The Writer and the
War,” a lecture by Slavenka Drakulic in Dupont
Auditorium ii‘? TUESDAY 565 7:30 p.m.
Contact presents Morgan Noval; Northen
Audtorium 3'53? 8 p.m. Concert Guild brings
Grruck Ohlsson to Lenfest 39?? WEDNES-

DAY 51¢ 4:30 p.m. Science Center dedication
lecture: “What’s Where in the Neuropsycho1—
ogy of Anxiety”; room A214 of the Science
Center 345 7:30 p.m. Men’s B—ball vs.
Hampden—Sydney =51‘? THURSDAY 35¢ 7
p.m. Public Forum addressing W&L’s Master
Plan in Fairfax Lounge 1145 7:30 p.m. Contact
Lecture with Harry Wu in Northen 3%? 7 :30 p.m.
Xi Pi Xi Society presents Suzanne Keen speak-
ing on “Contemporary Fiction by Women”; C-
School 221 ¢I<= FRIDAY rt: 7:30 p.m. Film
Society shows “The Blue Kite” in the Trouba-
dour $5 SATURDAY ii‘: 11 a.m. W&L Wres-
tling 51¢ 12 p.m. Women’s Basketball vs.
Guilford $5 2 p.m. Men’s Basketball vs. Guiford
3%‘ 7:30 p.m. “The Blue Kite” 3% 8 p.m. Uni-
versity-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra at
Lenfest 11:30 p.m. Sh**kickers at KA 11¢

     
 
  
 
    

  

77 NW 1312 /race T?)
‘E9? we 17/wrs
$tPPI2o- 172 mm;
Fpizv TH"fZ‘ &(g_L19(/Odég
‘T7’ NOT coweiotaz
0% ea 17A11raF

A <79xUA(/
¢a,m7oNeHi1?..

   
 

 

and delicious beverage, while Justin and Rachel opted
for more traditional beverages, green tea and Coke re-
spectively.

Our entrees more accurately reﬂected our varied
tastes. Justin ordered the sushi deluxe, a tray of as-
sorted sushi delicacies. Rachel selected the vegetable
tempura, which consisted of sliced vegetables, lightly
battered and fried, with a bowl of tempura sauce for
dipping. Doug opted for his favorite Sake House dish,
kobe beef, small cubes of beef tenderloin cooked in a
black pepper
and garlic sauce
and served over
a bed of cab-
bage. Feeling
more adventur-
ous, Robin tried
the ahiru, roast
duck and scal-
lops served with
carrots and on-
ions. Justin as-
sisted those of
us inexperi-
enced with chop-
sticks, and we
dove in.

Most of us
sampled Doug’s
beef, which was ».
plentiful in portion and very tasty, and although Justin
offered tastes of sushi, no one took him up on the offer.
Robin’s duck had a rich sesame ﬂavor, and was tasty, al-
though slightly greasy for her tastes. Rachel enjoyed her
vegetable entree, which included unusual elements such
as sweet potatoes and zucchini. Justin raved about the
consistent quality and fine preparation that he found in
the sushi every time he visited.

We were all impressed by the authentic decor and tra-
ditional seating at Sake House. The service was also ex-
cellent, and the prices were reasonable for the quality and
quantity of food we received. We highly recommend Sake
House to all those folks from California, and anyone else
interested in enjoying this type of ﬁne dining.

 

By Hollister Hovey

     
 
 
     

wa,u,l @0699,
got HA/A9 1’lAl/l¢HU(7
AWUT THE W2, L
Rook’ U? éoérxta.

 

  
  
 

 

