  

~=a_ ‘A   4.
CD Is there life aft
05 CD Net—shy? Webpages aren’t as

  

. J‘

er Seinfeld

(I) Balsley finds beer around
every corner.
CD Elrod defends student

 

SPORTS

 

Spring sports
V wrap up:
Generals see the end
of a successful

 

1‘ . autonom . '
scary as you think. Y Spring‘
PAGE 3 PAGE 2 pAGE 4
U
‘ , . BulkRaie
Usplzsgge
Washington and Lee University 1 [ Monday
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 23 MAY 187 1998

Y D b h

81 I  t

it Couches burn, kegs fly and locals cause
chaos at this year’s music bonanza
BY HOLLIS“.-R HOVEY around 30 to 35 miles an hour,”

9‘ é———ExI«:cUTivE EDITOR Sevigny said. “People started

Beer ﬂowed, couches burned, and throwing kegs, chairs and every-
a townie went home with his car de- thing they could find. By morning
stroyed - just more of the same at we saw bits of his car all over

X Rockbridge County’s little annual Zollman’s.’’

’ Woodstock, the Buffalo Creek Mu- Last year a townie destroyed his
sic Festival. own car after getting in a ﬁght with

Students surprisingly remained his wife. The man returned to this
arrest-free throughout the duration year’s Buffalo Creek for even more

44* ofthe festival, in spite oflocals who fun. One sophomore encountered
caused chaos early Sunday morn- him near her campsite, “The guy
ing. said, ‘Hi, my name is Moondog and

“There was a random townie driv- I really need some grass.” she said.

N’ ing up ‘and down in a Chevette or “He was with his 10-year old son
Yugo-like thing spinning and almost and his wife. It was the same guy
crashing into everyone’s cars,” who attackedhis car last year.” _

Chuck Sevigny Said‘ “Then he took other locals also had their way  I;.1EE cSi')lgUDE}lI‘lTSI?ELAX I: Bujzglo Creek while the Buffalo Creek Music Festival unfolds behind them. T he festival hosted such
. . . . 0 san v .
a pass at some people, and every- at the Chi Psi camp site.‘ ‘‘I’d just ‘D ery mg OLUSTER OVEY XECUHVEEDWOR
onestrtdk'k' h’ .S f'hdffhk f ' is -> . a .

W threw: goleipoifnigm :)snci::rH::i;::: niirgilst ien aomvtv velhggl o;Stsl;edsoel::to,n: callstthe couch burning an annual I didn t hear the bands, all I_ It was wonderful to let the water around nine o’clock and sent almost
talking Smack and dro-ve Off A Chipsi freshman Saidp“B rthe time evc:/imst of th k d d.d hefard were car stereosblaring, and carry medown the river, but it wasa everyone to theircars. Another
bunch of people went to ﬁnd him I woke up townies h.ad {mmt our r ‘t e wee en hl snot so as burning in fires, ‘he said. The bumpy ride towards the end,” she storm hit early that morning.
and mu his car.” living roorhzcouch to nothin Ste‘ E ove qui -e as excitinghas t e uri- alcohol did get warm in the nearly said. ' I have several bruises from Despite the wildly fluctuating

4 The students told the man he had len our kegs keg taps chaii and dfznllfnxgzrimngl anlilcls, dowel/fer. cl 9f)-degree temperatures Ofsaturday hmmg the rocks at the bottom.” weather’ some people enjoyed the
ﬁve minutes to leave Zoumanvs be‘ Cooler ” , , to glee ‘rm a co be an wlas orce a‘ ternoon. Students ﬂocked to the The weather made auturn for the weekend for other reasons. “It was
fore they would trash his automm Many of the fraternities burnt drunk Eolljjft carh ecarise i1/lvas too river to cool off. Two-day camper worse around dinner time Sunday definitely not the beach, but the
bile. “He Started tearing through their own Couches Ka a Sioma Ta 1 R .lrive ogie, sop omore Lora Ellison enjoyed her refreshing when the first ofthree storms hit the hamburgers weren’t bad,” vegetar-

- PP D Y 0T U1 0V3 S31 - V ride down the Buffalo Creek rocks. area. The second downpour came ian Jen Fisher said.
*.
I
CO S SE ' CU rass
V BY TARAH GRANT afraid to let his children play in his ing a phone call interview, the resi-
—-?-?—- Exnoomvr FDlTOR yard after he saw two snakes emerge dents of206 refused to comment on
Can you see your feet as you from the lawn of206 and enter his. the situation and hung up.
walk through your frontlawn? lfnot, The neighbor killed one of the Officer R.D. Clark visited two
_, you better cut your grass. An ob- snakes, but the other retreated back other student houses this week for
' scure ordinance in the Lexington to 206. section 18-9 violations, 308 East
City Code brought police officers to Haraway went to 206 to investi~ Washington Street and 1l3 Diamond
at least three student houses over gate the complaint. “l’ve been here Street.
the past week. three years and I’ve never seen Senior Dan Rushing, a resident
i City residents must maintain their something so blatant as this case,” of308, said that he mowed his lawn
lawns and keep weeds under 15 Haraway said. Most ofthe lawn was in “eightminutes” after Officer Clark
inches in height, according to Ar- six to seven inches tall, and there knocked ’on their door 8:30 a.m.
ticle ll, Section 18-9 ofthe city code. were spots in the back and along the Thursday and said that the city
Usually, violations of the ordi- sides of the house that were over 1 would bill them $1,000 to cut the
T nance are uncommon. The police do 1/2 feet tall, Haraway said. lawn if they didn’t, according to
not get involved unless a lawn is in- Haraway informed the students Rushing.
fested with snakes or rats and/or the about the ordinance and told them “Wejust forgot about it, but we’ll
neighbors complain, according to that they had to have the lawn cut definitely make sure it stays short
... Officer Keith Haraway. by Thursday or, in accordance with the rest ofthe year,” said Rushing,
On Wednesday, Haraway re- the city code, either public works or who plans to cut the lawn one more
ceived a phone call complaint about a private contractor chosen by the time before he graduates.
206 North Randolph Street, the city would cut the lawn and submit Officer Haraway advised students
. home of seniors Claudia Arcuri, a bill to the owner ofthe property. to check their rental contracts to see
1 Anson Long, Ryan McWilliams and The lawn was cut by the end of if the landlord or the tenants are re-
 ‘ Lindsay Wood. A neighbor was Haraway’s shift on Thursday. Dur- sponsible for lawn maintenance.
Just what we need more lawyers
-N’

C

On a beautiful spring afternoon, law students gather on the Front Lawn to celebrate their graduation from
the Washington and Lee School of Law. Friends and family look on as the newest masters of the law receive
their diplomas. H OLUSTER H OVEY/EXECU77VE EDITOR

Freshman woman arrested
for public drunkenness

BY PoLLY Doio

NEWS EDITOR

A freshman woman was arrested
early Thursday morning for public
drunkenness, following an incident
on the Baker—Davis-Gilliam quad.

According to witnesses, Chris-
tine van den Toorn, of Sperryville,
Va., began screaming obscenities in
the freshman quad in an apparent
response to taunts from male fresh-
men.

Van den Toom was confronted by
Washington and Lee Security, and
urged to return to her domi. She re-
fused and continued to shout ob-

scenities and, at one point, climbed
up on the wall in front ofthe Graham-
Lees dormitory, only to be pulled
down by a friend.

“Security called us over there
because a bunch of students were
screaming and yelling across the
quad,” said Lexington Police Officer
Michael Hess. “Ms. van den Toorn
was pointed out as being one who
had been asked several times to go
back inside, and who had refused.”

Hess approached van den Toorn,
smelled alcohol, and discovered that
she was only 18 years old. Upon

questioning, van den Toom stated L

that she had come from a sorority
function at the Volcano Restaurant
and Bar.

According to Hess, when he be-
gan to fill out a summons for under-
age consumption of alcohol, van
den Toom began screaming
obsenities directed toward Hess.

“At this point I decided that ob-
viously the alcohol had more effect
on her than I had thought, and so
instead of writing a summons, lar-
rested her for DIP," said Hess.

Van den Toom declined to com-
ment. A trial date has been set for June
30th.

3

6

2
l

I 4%
.. .x..  amt. ~

LETTING THE GRASS get too long could constitute a violation of the Lexington "Good Neighbor" ordinance, as
the residents of] I 3 Diamond street found our early Friday morning. HOLLISTER HOVEY/EXECUTIVE EDITOR

 

 

PAGE 2

MAY 18, 1998

Parting is such
sweet sorrow

Well everyone, this is it — our last is-
sue of the year. We want to go home. We
want to stay awake in class on Monday.
We don’t want to wake up in the middle
of the night having anxiety sweats, fear-
ing that we messed up Talkback.

Yes, We’re selfish. You could even
have the nerve to say that we’re being
lazy. We don’t care. We had to resort to
news of Lexington mowing laws and
naked townies. The year is winding
down and you surprisingly are behav-
ing fairly well. No one was even arrested
at Buffalo Creek!

We know that all Hell will break loose
by orientation, though, and we’ll be back
with a vengeance. We plan to add wider
coverage of sports, and to the delight of
many, and a weekly athlete and regular
person profile. We have more top secret
ideas, but we want to surprise you. We
can’t give the opposition an unfair advan-
tage, either.

Speaking of the opposition, this ridicu-
lous rivalry between The Trident and the
Phi must end. Neither of us should care
what the other does. At times it seems
we’ve been thrown into some Pulitzer/
Hearst rivalry. There is absolutely no need
for the competition, or more importantly,
the attacks.

We come out on Monday on big paper.
The Trident comes out on Wednesday on
little paper. No one pays for either. No
one has to read or enjoy either. If youlike
one better, then no one cares if you read
the other.

Basically, the attacks are pointless.

We’re over 100-years-old, and will con-
tinue to come once a week. The Trident
will continue to put out every Wednes-
day. Neither of us is going away.

If anything, we need to stand together
and fight for the good of the school and,
most specifically, the poorly funded de-
partment we call the J-school.

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬁhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Andrea Ewing

Executive Editors

Associate Editor

Copy Editor Sarah Meldrum
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&life Editors Ginger Phillips

Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin MeManemin

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor

Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco

Jill Jamieson
Steven Klotz

Business Manager
Advertising Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540)462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.ea'u
http://wlu. edu/~phi

 

America makes noise
about Seinfe|d’s Farewell

“So what’s the big deal? Another television program
said goodbye to the small screen. They do it every year.”
Indeed they do, but while some shows enter our homes
for thirty minutes a week, others decide they would rather
stick around in our hearts for a generation or two.

Who has never seen, or at least heard, of the candy

factory, grape squashing, Harpo Marx or
Vitameatavegimin

episodes? Who can  ——~———-————
repress a smile at the '  I-ﬁg 

  

thought of Sammy
Davis, Jr., hitting
Archie with a big A
smack-a-roo in front of the Bunker family camera? How
could anyone but Hawkeye, Hot Lips, Klinger, Radar and
the crew make America laugh in the face of napalm? When
you hear the name “Woody,” who comes to mind?
Sometimes the writers give us shows, whether we per-
sonally like them or not, that leave a mark on American
society that is not easily wiped away. Thursday night mil-
lions of Americans gathered to watch the ﬁnal episode of
a program that proved the epitome of the “water cooler
show,” or if you prefer, the “coffee maker show.”
For nine remark-
C C

able seasons Jerry
While some shows

Seinfeld and his
quirky friends as-
enter our homes for ‘°““ded 0"’ SW65
thirty minutes a week,
others decide they

of humor, decency,
would rather stick ..

propriety, normal-
ity, etc. Some of us
around for a generation
or two.

liked it. Some cer-
tainly did not.
Nevertheless, the
Seinfeld generation
is changed forever.
Millions, who ‘were
product fans to begin with, now have strange cravings
for a New York marble rye, a cinnamon bobka or a
Drake’s Coffeecake. You know that old blouse mom has
in the closet with the frilly, lace cravat? Does anyone
else now refer to it as “The Puffy Shirt”? Even the alu-
minum industry cannot avoid the impact of Castanza.
Children everywhere are restraining, with great feats
of strength, not to get overly anxious about
theanticipated Festivus celebrations that get under way
this December 23. Speculators predict a sharp rise in
aluminum pole sales. And certainly no one can deny
that pretzels really do make you thirsty.

So if America made a big deal about the ﬁnal epi-
sode of Seinfeld, then good for America. Four charac-
ters, matched by no others in total insanity, entered our
society nine years ago, yada yada yada, and it will never
be the same. Whether it will be better, worse or nei-
ther, who cares?

xi Stephen Pesoe ’O1

'5 Y
.-..5..._

never big bread"

'_::s:.i-ext:

 

“l’m going to be a nanny for
a small Bahamian family.”

—-Jason Nichols ’00

A letter to the

To the Student Body:

There has been much discussion in the student press
thisspring about student self-governance. ln editori-
als, articles and letters to the editor, students have ex-
pressed worry that student self-govemance is losing
prominence at Washington and Lee. Iwrite to express
my own views on this subject.

It is important for all students to understandthat
the principle of student self-governanceiis supported
by the trustees, the administration and the faculty. All
three affirm the educational importance, of this prin-
ciple and its prominence in student life at Washington
and Lee. Indeed, just thisyear, it has been strongly“
endorsed in the recent report from the Commission
on Student Self-Govemance. I encourage every one
of you to read this very important report, as it clearly.
re-articulates a strong University commitment to this
principle. I fully support this report and its recomrnen-I
dations regarding the strengthening of studentﬂself-~
governance at Washington and Lee. ”

Student self-govemance is notan empty principle
here. The student Executive Committee enjoys full
responsibility for the honor system and reports dhbcﬂy 3
to the Board of Trustees. The Student Judicial Cout1- -

. cil continues to exercise enormous authority over stu-
dent disciplinary matters falling outside the honor sys-

the Executive Committee in reporting to the Boardiof. 
Trustees at each of its’ three annual meetings.‘ The '
Interfraternity Council and the Panhellenic Council
exercise vast control over the operations of the Greek‘
system at Washington and Lee. Beyond these four im-
portant judicial bodies, student authority_ext_ends toy
 the management of life in the residence halls; regula-,j
I tion of an enormous budget funding a wide range"of‘*
student organizations andactivities; and full respon-
sibility for the MockiConvention and Fancy Dre$s.,:',e~
Students also exercise complete managerial authority’ 2
over student literary andjoumalistic publications, and )
through CONTACT strongly impact the co-eurricu-
lar program of the University. , ‘ ,
lam confident that there are few,lif any, colleges
and universities in the land that place such a strong
value upon the principles of student self~governance
and its incorporation into the daily life of the campus
community. ‘ I
If there exists a threat to student self-governance‘,
it lies principally in the tendency among some sun
dents to confuse the freedom you enjoy in managing g
you own affairs with license. That is, student self-go_,v-
ernance should not be viewed as an unfettered.riglit.
.. Rather, the freedom that is yours is a freedom that
« logically and morally connected with responsibilitygiii

President Elrod sends a message about student autonomy

‘ gentleman, and-they doubtlessly were often re-

 gpmony withthe principle of being a gentleman. Presi-
,de_nt Lee, recognized very clearly that not having
5 regulations would succeed only if students lived in-

tem, and now its president has joined the president of .” ‘
ing the very same challenge. The more successful you

, are at living lteely by accepting your obligations to

" live and govern yourselves according to the values of /

President, Lees expectation that students live accord-

{iing to the principle did not prevent him from disciplin-
7 ing students who failed to understand what Washing-
} fton College was all about.) t

-V regulations and complex committee structure surround» » I
., ing student life. No one wants the Washington and Lee.
, community/to become a bureaucratic tangle of regula-
, tions and committees encroaching on every aspect of
‘ complicated, and the reportlon student self-govemance
keep it simple by recognizing the centrality of our core

with If we can succeed in these terms, we will

You have the freedom that you do to manage your , ; ~ 

student body

own affairs precisely because the trustees and the fac-
ulty have given you the responsibility to govern your-
selves according to the noble principles upon which
the University is founded; It is this expectation; it is
this responsibility; it is this “duty,” Robert E. Lee would
say, that makes you tree. Being free in this sense stems
from accepting an obligation to govern yourselves ac-
cording to the principles of honor, civility, respect, etc.

Living and governing yourselves according to these
principles creates the caring community of trust which
we all so dearly love. Living freely in this way helps
us steer clear of creating an overregulated community
that is weighted down by dozens of bureaucratic rules
and committees. Robert E. Lee is now remembered for
having done away with the rules that governed student
life. He not only eliminated rules; be also imposed
an: obligation on each student to live as a gentle-
man.,‘Students knew exactly what itimeant to be a

minded by President Lee that reducing the number
of rules carried with it the obligation to live in har-

dividually inlharrnony with this principle.
Nothing has changed today; we ﬁnd ourselves fac-

our community, the less regulation we will have from
the trustees, the faculty and the hill. (I might add that

W 7 Our goal rnust be to perpetuate a strong tradition of
self-governance and, where possible, to simplify the .

our lives:  judicialiprocedures are already overly
wisely calls for their simpliﬁcation.) It is far better to
values and living and governing yourselves in harmony

enjoyjand be ediﬁed by living in a healthy and caring
community of trust, and student self-governance will
thrive as never before.

2 I I ” I I " ’ Sincerely,
John W. Elrod
President

 

‘‘I’m going to lnnsbrook, Austria to
study music and history.”

-—Mary Elizabeth Whipple ’00

C C Q,/"‘*~«.,,h
 uote of the Week:
Question Authority

— VMI student’s bumper sticker.

77

 S.  i What are you going to do this summer?

“Who knows?”

—David Butler ’98

 

ll 23':  

 

Beer invades Lex!

ljust learned that the Lexington Revco sells beer.

Maybe this doesn’t strike you as odd. It seems strange
to me. I had never seen beer in a Revco before last Sun-
day, when, on my ﬁrst trip to said establishment, l dis-
covered an enormous blue-and-yellow stack of Corona
cases standing next to a smaller display oftootr-paste. My
concept of Revco was shattered. For me, Revco was al-
ways the place to buy personal hygiene products, candy
and trashy maga-
zines, but not too
much else. So it
struck me as funny
when the lady in
front of me in line
left the store with mascara and a sixer of Coors.

My discovery lead me to think about all the places in
Lexington where beer is sold. I had thought of Lexington
as a small town with a rich historical tradition, a comer of
Virginia that gets real quiet on Sunday evenings. l’m start-
ing to wonder, however, if Lexington isn’t all those things
and more. Maybe Lexington is also the town where beer
is sold nearly everywhere.

For what it’s worth, l’ve compiled a list of28 places in
Lexington where beer is sold. I consider this to be a work
in progress, so if l’ve left a name offthe list, please con-
tact the Phi to let me know. Here it is:

 

 Red Brick Row
 ,...4»’ David Balsley 99

_..>4...

Blue Heron G W illaker ‘s The Sheridan-
Cafe Harb ’s Livery Inn
Canton Chinese Harris Teeter Southern Inn
Restaurant Hunan Garden Spanky 's
Digger ’s ll Palazzo The Staircase
East Lex The Inn at Stop In
El Puerto Union Run Super Wal-Mart
Food Kroger ’s Volcano
Euphorium Maple Hall W illson- Walker
F ranco ’s The Palms H ouse
Frank's Italian Revco Woods Creek
Eatery Salerno ’.s' Grocery

 

“l’m going to be a receptionist in
a hotel in Hungary.”

—Eszter Pados ’00

R l

U

‘-l

 

  

I Y 18, 1998

  
   
   
    
  
 

j Y ERICA PRoesi~:R

PHFEAIURES EDITOR
Lots of Washington and Lee students have webpages.
Some are simple (name, address, resume, plea for work),
‘ » while others are more complex (incriminating photos, sense-
ess commentary, you get the idea). This is a little story
_ about one webpage: how it began, what it has endured
and how people outside the W&L community have re-
I ceived it.
I’m a dedicated Disney fan, for starters. It was No-
"vember 1997, and I had just begun planning a trip to Walt
Disney World for April break. I was surfing Disney
A websites when I came upon Badger’s Disney Countdown
’Page. This page gives out an award called the Gold
isneynut. Only the most die-hard fans could earn it, and
earn it, one had to have a
-webpage. I wanted that little gold
-peanut with the Mickey ears. So I
ecided I needed a webpage.
Creation was easy; I got my
mitts on a copy of Adobe Pagemill
' 2.0, which makes webpage design
as easy as writing a paper. Of
‘course, I had no idea what I
'«was doing, but it looked nice. I
still can’t program very well in
HTML (the webpage language,
or the computer illiterate), but
’m getting better. Anyway, I
slapped together a page, com-
plete with nice pictures, and put
I" it on the Net.
Now I needed to think: What could I do with my page
to make it special? I created a voting page for Disney’s
cutest couple. I put up a trivia contest with a real prize (a
9 Disney Store gift certiﬁcate, paid for out of my pocket).
, Then came the real challenge. I wanted to win awards for
having a cool page.
__ I applied for the Gold Disneynut first, and I got it.
Then, I hopped from site to site, applying for awards all
over the place. I got most of them, and now I have a total of
' seven proudly displayed on the page. I also joined a ban-
_‘ ner exchange, a web ring and four Disney-affiliated groups.
I even “rated with RSACi.” (Everyone rates with RSACi.
It’s the family-friendly benchmark of the lntemet.) I put up
a counter from Liberty, and when that went down in April
I998, I got a shiny new Java counter that works most of the
time. Then I sat back and waited; the fans would come.
Sure enough, they came, and in droves. The contest
brought in roughly 100 entries each month, even though
he questions were often tough. The vote for cutest couple
was also a hit. And as I added more goodies to the page, I
got more and more suggestions from fellow fans. Isoon
V created my own elite Disney award and let other pages
. apply for it (I’m so picky that out of about 20 entries, only
- handful of people have actually earned the award).
When I started planning my April Disney vacation, I
put up a full trip planning guide and journal. At Christmas
and Valentine’s Day, I added seasonal pages (the Christ-
mas page even included a cookie recipe). The latest counter,
'ust added on April 25, had already tallied almost 1,800 hits
y May 15. But just when everything seemed successful
and cosy, things began to get interesting (what a surprise).
First came the e-mails from people planning trips to
Walt Disney World. Honeymooners asked for advice on

  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
    

  

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

  

what to do that was romantic. Families asked about what
to do on ﬁrst-time visits. People from as far away as Aus-
tralia were writing for tips on Disney vacations. I was fast
becoming a reluctant guru, and it didn’t end there. The
Spanish guys were the ﬁrst sign of a loss of control.

The Spanish guys were four Spanish citizens who
were planning to spend the summer in Orlando. They had
seen my website, decided I was an important person, and
e-mailed me, asking for jobs in the Orlando area for the
summer. I wrote back politely that I don’t live in Orlando, I
don’t have any jobs to give, but thanks for stopping by.

Soon after the Spanish guys came the Mexican artist.
He was a graphic design student from Mexico who asked
in garbled English for me to help him get ajob at the Disney
studios. I told him I couldn’t help him, but that I wished
him luck. This was getting weird; somehow, people
were getting the idea that I had some pull with the

Disney Company, with which I’m not even afﬁli-
ated (as the website says). Things weren’t quite
done there, either.

Finally, I got an e-mail from atravel agency. I
have a small listing of Disney-friendly travel
agents on my page, and this agency was inter-
ested in joining that list. The e-mail, a rather for-
mal and polite affair, asked how an agency could
be featured on the page. I wrote back just as
politely and told the agency that I had added
it to my list. It was that simple,
and I’m sure they’re happy now.

This onslaught of fans, job
hunters and businesses made
me wonder: Should I do something
with this newfound fame?

“Sell advertising space,” my mom suggested. “If the
site is that popular, charge people to be linked on it.” A
good idea, except I don’t know the first thing about con-
ducting real business over the Net (ordering from the
Disney Online Store doesn’t count). I don’t have a virtual
bank account, and I don’t know how to access funds from
people who do. Besides, the only really commercial aspect
of the site is the travel agent part, and I’d already been
listing several agencies absolutely free for months. Now
what? Someday, I’ll consult some web-savvy people to
find out what to do with this hotbed of interest. Until then,
why make your own page?

The moral of the story is that webpages are cool, for
starters. They can take some time, but it’s time well spent,
and it’s actually a lot of fun. If you build the page around
something that interests other people (say, a particular
celebrity, group, movie or entertainment empire), people
will visit. If you actively seek out things like awards and
affiliations, you’ll get more hits on your page. And if you
keep it up, people will regard you as an expert, even if
you’re not. You can’t beat fame like that!

Best of all, though, you might actually help some
people. My favorite e—mail ever was from a woman right
here in Virginia who is a physical therapist in a nursing
home. She said that she uses the Internet as a therapy
tool; people who have trouble even moving feel like they
can go anywhere when they’re on the Net.

She continued that she discovered my website while
surﬁng one day, and now she takes her patients to my site
whenever possible. She said that my webpage is not only
fun for the patients to navigate, but that it also makes them
smile. I can’t think of a better reward than that.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

Spring

1749

   

Ill

   
  
 

     
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  

Kick

CELEBRATION

 

Thursday, May 21, 1998
4:30 - 7:30 p.m.
Colonnade

(rain site -
Musical Performance by
“Snake Oil Medicine Show”

Pavilion)

  

W&life

Picture yourself on the Net

‘CD Making a webpage is an adventure, but not that scary

, Vandelay to impress the women, but his

PAGE 3

The end of the 1998 season of the Washington and
Lee Theatre Department is truly a work of drama magic:
a sort-of modern twist on a very well-known oldie.

The theater department will present William
Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night at 8 p.m. on Friday, May
22, Saturday, May 23 and Monday, May 25. The show
will also be performed on Sunday, May 24 at 2 p.m. The
basic story will remain the same, but guest director Brian
Desmond has chosen to modernize the presentation by
setting the play in the 1920s.

“The play has a kinship with the ‘Roaring Twen-
ties, he said. “It was a decade characterized by many
excesses.”

Twelfth Night is a story of confusion, excess and
deception. Viola and her twin brother, Sebastian, are ship-
wrecked off the coast of the imaginary land of Illyria,
each believing the other has died. Viola disguises her-
self as a man, calls herself Cesario and goes to work for

COURTESY OF THE THEATER DEPARTMENT

Twelfth Night promises fun

COLIN TATE '01 and Erin Mullaney ’98 rehearse Twelfth Night. The show opens May 22 at 8 p.m. PHOTO

a local duke, Orsino. Orsino is in love with a wealthy
neighbor, Olivia, but Olivia is in mourning for her re-
cently deceased brother and wants nothing to do with
Orsino. Orsino sends Cesario (Viola) to woo Olivia for
him, but Olivia falls in love with Cesario instead. Cesario
(Viola), meanwhile, has fallen in love with Orsino. This
is only the beginning of the entertaining insanity that is
Twelfth Night.

Desmond sees the play as “a house party where no
one goes home.” _

“There is something sweetly sad, unsettling, even
bitter about the play,” he said. “Twelfth Night is about
love and grief, their pains and their pleasures, and how
the two emotions are often indistinguishable. It is, oddly
enough, both elegiac and manic.”

Tickets are on sale now for the production, which
will be in the Keller Theatre. For inforrriation or reserva-
tions, call the Lenfest Center Box Office at 463-8000.

—— compiled from staff reports

Life goes on after Seinfeld

BY KEVIN MCMANEMIN

THEIDONEYBIN

ow that Seinfeld has gone to that great VCR in the
sky, NBC’s monopoly on the Thursday night at 9

time slot is ﬁnished, and next season every major
network will be putting their strongest shows to compete
for those ratings.

Ofcn.use,rrw thatalltrepcpilarseinfeld characters
are out of work, they’ll probably be hunting forjobs among
those great electronic trash-heaps that we call the net-
works. We at the Phi managed to get some juicy Holly-
wood insider gossip about which Seinfeld characters will
be going on which shows. Read on and be amazed at how
easily our favorite actors avoid typecasting.

Puddy ' s Buddi e s

Elaine’s on-again off-again boyfriend
David Puddy joins the cast of Friends in
the NBC exec’s latest attempt to revive that
rapidly deteriorating show.

In one episode Phoebe, Joey and Puddy
spend all afternoon at the coffee shop try-
ing to count to ten. Then Chandler makes
a semi-witty wise crack and a reference to
a 705 TV show. And you thought Friends
couldn’t get any worse!

MAD ABOUT NEWMAN

Paul and Jamie ofMadAbout You are in
for trouble when they hire portly postal
worker Newman as their new nanny. In the
first episode Newman accidentally
switches the baby with a bag of mail and
little Buchman ends up flying parcel post to Tehran. Paul
and Jamie are furious until Newman reminds them that if
the baby is damaged in shipping, the Post Ofﬁce will buy
them a new one.

Babu and Order

Hapless Pakistani immigrant Babu Bhatt is in way over
his head as the new Manhattan district attorney on the hit
show Law and Order. He loses his first case after offering
no evidence, no witnesses and no closing remarks other
than “he very bad man. Very bad man!”

Murderers and rapists get off scot — free almost as of-
ten as they do in our real legal system. You’d think he
worked for the Los Angeles District Attomey’s Office!

Costanza’s Place

George moves to Melrose Place to escape his parents
and wackiness ensues as the short, stocky bald man un-
successfully attempts to get laid. In the first episode he
poses as wealthy importer/exporter Art

zany plot falls through.

Watch George lie like a senator while
he tries to salvage his unraveling web of
deceit. It’s a nutty hour of madcap tom-
foolery!

((3/dine jzcﬁeaf

After being fired by J. Peter-
man for making fun of his new
Brazilian lemur-skin walking san-
dals, Elaine finds herself work-
ing at Ally McBeal’s law firm in
ajob yet to be determined by

the writers‘ ofMelrose Place.

 

PAUL REISER, Wayne Knight and Helen Hunt
try to save “Must See TV" in Mad About Newman.

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

JASON ALEXANDER ﬁnds life after Seinfeld with the cast

In each episode Ally and Elaine sit around the office
whining about men and relationships, then they go home
and whine about men and relationships. One of them goes
on a date, whines to her date about how men can’t com-
mit, then comes home and whines about men and relation-
ships. Oh yeah, there’s something about lawyers and
courts and stuff in there too.

Worldjs Scariest Haircuts IV

Cosmo Kramer leads us through some of the seediest
barbershops and salons in New York in this latest pa-
thetic Fox “real life” TV special. Ever wonder what de-
mented barbers are responsible for Kramer’s hair?

Watch and find out — if you dare!

Uncle Leo , Texas Ranger

That lovable old Uncle Leo is back on TV as a butt—kick—
ing, karate-chopping,
gun-toting, to-
bacco-chawing
Texas Ranger. He

geriatric division of
the Texas Ranger,
busting up battery-
shoplifting rings.
Morty Seinfeld and
his neighbor Jack
Klompas star as his
deputies.

“I sold raincoats
for41 years . . . you
think I don’t know
how to handle a
shotgun?”

ﬂ0uCA2J  Codlanzaa

After they’re killed in a freak Marble Rye accident, Frank
and Estelle Costanza are brought back to earth as angels.
Their mission: to counsel couples on the brink ofdivorce
and save their marriages.

Here’s a sample script:

Wife: Well, he never wants to try anything new.
Estelle: Husbands don’t like to try new things. Like new
sweaters.
Frank: THIS IS MY FAVORITE SWEATER!
Estelle: YOU’VE WORN IT FOR THIRTY YEARS! BUY
A NEW ONE!
Frank:NEVER!
Husband: You know, on second thought, our marriage really
isn’t in that much trouble. Please, we won’t get divorced if
you promise to never come back!
Frank: Hoochie-mama!
l|r. (Quinn, Soup Nazi

Afterthe West’s first malprac-
tice case robs Dr. Quinn of her
license, she’s forced to open a
soup kitchen to make ends
meet.

Every week it’s an hour of
the irate Quinn yelling “no
soup for you” at hungry
cowboys, again and
again and again.

Tragically, this
makes it by far the

most entertaining

show on CBS.

. 9. 

   

 

works for the special ~

 

!Women’s coaches

"claim ODAC honors

Women ’s lacrosse coach Jan Hathorn and women ’s tennis
coach C inda Rankin voted [998 ODAC coaches of the year

CINDA RANKIN

Women ’s Tennis

 

BY FRAN<::s GROBERG

SPORTS EDrroR

Coach Cinda Rankin’s office is ﬁlled with inspi-
ration. Pictures of smiling victors in tennis skirts
holding various plaques cover every level surface,
and the plaques in the pictures line one wall. Her
bulletin board sports quotations on colorful pieces
of paper highlighting the relationship between the
will to win and success.

Yet probably the most important inspirational
message in the entire office is tucked away in the
corner. There, ﬂashing in Generals’ blue and white
across her computer, is a screen saver with a simple
message: “Win the last point!”

Rankin attributes much of her success to that
phrase and the attitude it projects, including re-
cently being named ODAC Coach of the Year for
the seventh time. The Generals finished this sea-
son 13-4 and were advanced all lost in the
quarterfinals of the NCAA tournament.

Ask her about her own accomplishments, how-
ever, and she will speak only of her players. “The
girls win the award for the coach. I don’t win the
award,” Rankin said. “They are ﬁghters  no, they
are competitors, and they give their best —— that’s
all I ever expect. It’s not a matter of winning or
losing.”

Winning may not be what really matters to

Rankin, but she’s certainly had her share of victo- .—

ries. Boasting a career record at Washington and
Lee of 178-32, her dominant teams have won nine
ODAC Championships and have placed in the
NCAA tournament six times since the founding of
the team in 1989.

“When we started [women’s tennis at W&L],
there was really no one to look up to as far as
women’s sports were concerned. That first team
looked instead to the men’s [tennis] program, which
dominated in the 1980s.”

One of the posters hanging in Rankin’s ofﬁce
sports the aerial view ofa tennis court, with tennis
balls strewn to each corner. Under the photograph,
above the Nike “Swoosh,” is yet another simple
phrase describing Rankin’s coaching philosophy:
“There is no ﬁnish Iine.”

“I want to give my players a good experience,”
she said. “I want them to look back on their sea-
sons here long after they leave Washington and
Lee with fond memories not only of success, but
of friends and fun. This is what I would like to
continue to do as long as I am a coach here.”

It seems there is no finish line for Rankin, as she
will return next year for another promising season
as the coach of W&L women’s tennis.

 

JAN HATHORN

Women ’s Lacrosse

 

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

SPORTS EDITOR

Any way you look at it, women’s lacrosse coach
Jan Hathom has had nothing but success at Washing-
ton and Lee in the past 10 years, and has built winning
programs in both women’s lacrosse and soccer.

Hathom’s latest achievement is 1998 ODAC
Coach of the Year for women’s lacrosse, her fourth
such award. Her Generals had an unbelievable year,
ﬁnishing 13-3 and qualifying for the NCAA touma-
ment for only the second time in school history.
This season also saw the Generals post a perfect 10-
0 mark in conference play, capture their third ODAC
tournament championship and down arch-rival

Roanoke College twice. Hathom also reached an .

impressive milestone by picking up her 100th career
victory in only her 10th season at W&L.

“It was a wonderful season,” Hathom said. “I’m
very proud of the girls; this season was all that you
could ask for.”

Hathom has directed the program since its be-
ginning in the spring of 1988. Under I-Iathorn, the
team has enjoyed nine consecutive winning sea-
sons after a 7-8 record in the program’s inaugural
season. The Generals won the ODAC tournament
in 1992, 1993 and 1998 and made NCAA tournament
appearances in 1993 and 1998. When asked why the
program has had so much success, Hathom was
quick to give credit to others.

“You’re only as good as the people you work with,”
Hathom said. “I’m in the right place with the right
people. A combination of a quality student athlete
who is motivated and someone who is as experienced
as I am make for awinning fonnula.” Hathom has built
a lifetime record of 105-51 in 10 seasons at W&L.

“The kind of young woman that I coach is a very
ambitious and hardworking student athlete,” added
Hathom. “And I really believe that if people respect
you and what you’re about and if you’re honest with
them, they’ ll pretty much do anything you ask of them.”

Hathom doesn’t only enjoy Success on the Lib-
erty Hall fields in the spring time, but in the fall as
well. Hathom has also headed the women’s soccer
team since its beginning in the fall of 1987. In the
fall, the Generals finished a record-setting 14-2, nar-
rowly missing the ODAC finals in a 2-1 double over-
time loss to Randolph-Macon. Hathom was named
ODAC Coach of the Year in women’s soccer in 1988
and 1996, and has compiled a record of 95-72-9.

“1 have to attribute a lot of my success to both
the support of the athletics department at W&L and
the quality of the young women that I coach,” said
Hathom. “I appreciate the kind of student that
comes here and I love the environment.”

sports

 

APARTMENT
FOR RENT

Excellent Location
3 Bedrooms
Microwave

FOR MORE
INFORMATION,
CALL 463-7690

HELP WANTED
Men and women earn
$375 weekly processingl
assembling Medical l.D.
Cards at home. Imme-
diate openings, your lo-
cal area. Experience un-
necessary, will train.
Call Medicard,
1-541-386-5290
Ext. 118M.

PREGNANT...
AND FEELING
ALONE?
WANT SOME
CHOICES TO
CONSIDER?

The Nurturing Network is dedicated to helping any
woman with an unwanted pregnancy give life to her
unborn child. We have specialized resources to meet
the practical needs of working and college women 
offering a real alternative  one which recognizes
your unique values, needs and circumstances.

A phone call to 1-800-TNN-4MOM can help you

give your child a future

without giving up on your own.

The
Nurturin
Network .

MAY 18, 1998

ODAC names conference
best in spring sports

Washington and Lee boasts 39 ODAC award winners this spring

WoMEN’s LACROSSE

First team

Mary Jo Mahoney, Sr. midﬁeld
Whitney Parker, Sr. midﬁeld
Lorraine Taurassi, Sr. midﬁeld

Second team
Kimmy Lubin, Jr. defense

 

WoMEN’s TRACK

First team
Meredith Mlynar, Jr.
Natalia Dorofeeva, Jr.
Kathleen Moroney, Fr.
Isaris Bonilla, Jr.
Lauren McKeever, S0.

Second team

  

BASEBALL Lisa Brennan, Jr.
First team
Christian Batcheller, So. outfield GOLF
Bob Weston, Jr. pitcher Fi7'Sl 1607?’!
Second team Rick Burrice, Jr.
E.J. Murphy, Jr. catcher T-1 Wagnera 30-
Lorraine Taurassi
MEN’s TRACK
First team
Omar Moneim, Jr.
Will Olson, Jr.
Greg Ruthig, Jr.

Second team

Marc Granger, So.
Jason Callen, Jr.

First team
Chris Haun, Fr.
Scott Babka, Jr.
Glenn Miller, Sr.
Kelly Radford, Fr.

MEN’s TENNIS

Colin Dougherty

MEN’S LACROSSE

Berry Blankinship

Brook Hartzell, So.
Christina Campbell, Fr.
Anne Castello, Fr.

Dave Lehman, Jr. F. I I

Tom Washbum, So. lr.S eam

Dale prema, jr_ Colin Dougherty, So. attack

Robb Greenfield, Sr. defense

W0MEN’s TENNIS Second team

First team Matt Dugan, Fr. attack
Ericka Sha ard Sr Ed Dougherty, Sr. midfield
Berry Blaniinsiﬁpg Sr. Pete lwancio, Fr. defense
Erin Eggers, So.

    
   
 
 
 
 
  

   

as 'a1§h§ImWn°¢d‘ih=1*..?7?F>¢°*¢733:.§$‘“it

Tait  of‘W8§L:ath1etici

 

J  lltllﬂt llltnilzt 
  Itittsi (tllltlz

  record

I 1 :3 Lee  Director  1;; g j V j .
 7 Additionally, ﬁvefof the students honored achieved
grade point averages o_f4.0 or higher. These students ~

o:ér+AtmereA’»iards.aurmg°~meswm-1A .     .
' ‘ ” I “ “     includedIJoe Bestic“, Sam Chase, Jason Callen, Giennl

in 922.22. atom

(09 set last year, V 

Mil1erandLaurain:Taurassi.

‘ ; {Members of eleven of W&L's 21 varsity athletic .
» "progI'ains*achieved‘ agteamggrade point average of at
,~1east.3.ooo, led byTtlie women's lacrosse team with a
j I 3.278; [The highest Irien's team grade point average was

menfs swimmingwitha3. 152.

  

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

Dllt£(Tl;D izmnn otsmu

 
 

