     

CD G&L names new president a
_l CD Considered Bhuddisrn lately?
Neither has anyone else on

 

cl) Give us a little credit! We
don’t do extracurricular ac-
tivities for nothing...

SPORTS

 

Women’s lacrosse a
great season, despite
an NCAA first round

loss to St. Marys

 

First chainsaws roared, and then
rain turned the lawn into mud. Over
the last two weeks people have won-
dered: what is going on behind Lee
House? The answer is quite simple:

“Not much,” said President John
Elrod. The Elrods have decided to
landscape the area. The pine trees
surrounding the lot have been cut
down, and the lawn has been bull-

scaped,” said Elrod. “We are putting
in additional lawn space.” Flowering
shrubs and perennials will surround
the new lawn area to create a more aes-
thetically pleasing backyard.

If the Board of Trustrees approves,
the brick wall will extend all the way to
the sidewalk.

“It will look nice when it’s fin-
ished,” said Elrod. “Buildings and

will get to it when they can.”

The additional lawn space will be
used for receptions, teas and cocktail
parties.

In other related news, construction
was recently begun behind the Pavil-
ion for the new baseball ﬁeld. Frank
Parsons, Coordinator of Facilities Plan-
ning, said that the ﬁeld sh,ould¢be ready
for the upcoming basebzilli, ,:  .

 

/l

yard is nothing
more than a
landscape job-
in-progress.
MIKE CRﬂ7EVDEN/
PHI PHOTO STAFF

campus. .. CD Save the Night Owl! 0011383-
W PAGE2 PAGE4
I
‘l
c 9' av 0 :;':.':.::.
PAID
‘(
  ‘  -  t 
A Washington and Lee University M°"day
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 22 MAY 11’ 1998
 Ml sexual  
I I
~ incident leads
I
 to expulsion
,, (1) Senior cadet and female exchange
student suffer consequences of liason
BY POLLY DOIG involvement in a “whack system.”
, , NW5 EDITOR Freshmen Brandon Crane, Terence
I Just days before graduation, Vir- Redmond, and Arnold Gore were also
ginia Military Institute expelled a se- expelled for denying that they had
nior following a sexual incident with a been beaten by the seniors.
female exchange student from Nor- All six former cadets willbepennit-
,4 wich University in Vermont. The pair ted to complete their coursework, pro-
were discovered having sexual rela- vided that it is done at an off-campus
tions in VMI’s barracks. location.
The female involved was also a se- Final exams began Monday at VMI,
nior. She was one of several women and the cadets were in District Court

"7 invited to VMI from other institutions before Judge James Turk, seeking a

in order to help ease the transition to restraining order to stop their expul-

co-education. VMI returned the ex- sions.
change student to her home institu- The ex-cadets maintain that their
‘ tion of Norwich University, in confessions were coerced, as they
Northﬁeld, Vt. were not notiﬁed of their right to re-
VMI’s policy on sexual relations is main silent by the student Ofﬁcer of
not ﬂexible, according to Superinten- the Guard Association who interro-
dent Josiah Bunting III. Sexual rela- gated them. They contend that they

«ll tions within the corps are strictly pro- were dragged out of bed in the middle

hibited by VMI, and speciﬁcally will of the night by the OGA to face inter-

not be tolerated in the barracks. rogation.
According to an anonymous VMI Judge Turk called the interrogation
_ junior, the senior’s punishment was tactics of the OGA “Gestapo meth-
i. extremely harsh, especially coming so ods,” and urged the cadets to work
. . close to graduation, but not unwar- out some sort of compromise with
N  p 3  p I 3  In  n g  n . . . ranted. “It’s too bad that this happened VMI so that they can take their exams.
at this point,” he said. “But his actions In this manner they can complete their
The Volcano finally received its liquor license and is open for business. It will be the only dance club in the metro Lex area. Come dance the night were extremely stupid}: work while waiting for a ruling in their
5’ away 8:30 — I a.m. Tuesday through Saturday, or just come eat until I 0 p. m. Tuesday — Sunday. MIKE CRIYTENDEN/PHI PHoro STAFF This was the third such incident case, which will not likely occur until

i that has occurred at VMI this year. In this fall.
October, two rats caught kissing in a In response to Turk’s comments on
S I I dark room were conﬁned to barracks OGA methods, VMI Spokesman Col.
,1 e n I O  E m p I    e e k g  d S for several weeks. In March, a disci- Michael Strickler said, “I have com-
I plinary committee recommended that plete faith in the cadets who work with
two cadets, who were charged with the Ofﬁcer of the Guard Association
BY ESZIER PADO6 Michigan State University, promises economy. Technological savvy also I think it’s been a very good year for visiting each other’s rooms various and the Honor Court, and that their
STAFF WRFFFR this year’s seniors a bright ﬁiture, with makes today’s graduates attractive. A everyone.” times at night, be suspended for two actions were honorable.”

V For Washington and Lee students an abundance of jobs available for So how does the future look for Edouard de Galbert’s experiences semesters. However, in this instance The ex-cadets prospects for receiv-
insecure about post-college life, rest fresh, compentent minds. Life looks Washington and Lee seniors? have been slightly different. De VMI instead followed through with a ingaVMI diploma remain highly im-
assured that 1998 is a ﬁne year to be especially good for future physicists, Senior biology major Kathleen Galbert admits that this is mainly due “severe penalty,” which included sev- probable, according to VMI Superin-
graduating. with a 14.8 percent salary increase this Dusse said that her experience shows to his preference to work abroad. eral months of conﬁnement. tendent Josiah Bunting in a written

V According to a survey on job op- year. The lowest increase in yearly that there have beenalot of jobs avail- “It’s really hard to look for a job In the latest incident, the conse- statement released early this week.
portunities for college graduates, this salaries concerns the Telecommunica- able. abroad from Lexington,” de Galbert quence for breaking the rules was ex- “Under no circumstances... could the
year’s job market offers a 27.5 percent tions professions, with a meager 0.5 “It seems to me that most compa- said. “There are a limited number‘ of pulsion. While this might seem severe, administration of VMI ever consent to
increase in job openings for 1998 col- percent increase. nies haven’t ﬁlled their positions yet,” alumni working abroad.” VMI Spokesman Colonel Michael the award of a VMI diploma to a cadet
lege graduates, and a four to ﬁve per- Patrick Scheetz, author of the Dusse said, “So it has been very easy He has sent a number of letters to Strickler said that, “every case has to found guilty of an honor violation by

4 cent increase in starting salaries—the Michigan State study, attributes wide- to get offers.” alumni, and has received one answer be looked at differently and punish- the cadet Honor Court.” Strickler also
biggest in 10 years. spread job availability and increasing She got an offer from Andersen so far. De Galbert hopes to relocate to merit given accordingly.” said that the only way that the ruling

The survey, conducted annually by offers to the country’ s booming Consulting in Washington, D.C., which Egypt <1)]r Ailrgentina fllallﬁwing gt:adua- Former Cadets may cleuld be i;vert:rr1fe\cl would be through
she acce ted, after 'ust one interview. tion, w et er or not e as a '0 Wait- , t e VMI oar o isitors.
Chrislbpher Forjrest, an economics ing for him. J ﬁnish classes An anonymous VMI source agreed
T   Chemical Engineering $44_ 557 and music major, had similar good for- “I’m just going to get a plane ticket, A District Court judge has ruled with the VMl’s stance. “They were
Electrical Engineering $41,157 tune. He received several offers in the go there and look around,” he said. that six former VMI cadets will be al- found guilty, and just because they
 |\] G Mechanical Engineering $39,357 finance industry, and chose to work at For those seniors who don’t have lowed to take their final exams. brought in fancy lawyers doesn’t mean
Computer Science $33,741 NationsBank. jobs yet, look out for recruiters, or con- The cadets, three of whom are se- that the decision of the Honor Court
p ' 36,692 “I think that it is easier now to find sider graduate school. The Michigan niors, were found guilty of lyin last should be overtumed.”
F   Lggissiifizs Management €35‘-190 a job than it has been in previous State survey found that top graduates Friday in ahazing-related incidenf, and Defense attomey Bernhardt Ruble,
F0 1 Chemistry $35227 years,” Forrest said. “My personal ex- of law schools and MBA’s in invest- were escorted off campus in a “drum- a Washington D.C.-based lawyer, said
R  Civil Engineering $34,335 periences have been very good.” ment banking or consulting are receiv- ming out” ceremony early Saturday in court that one of the freshmen is
Mathematics $33,180 Economics major Justin Riedell has ing offers as high as $100,000 out of morning. already tiring of the ﬁght, and may
‘ Financial Administration $32,430 been at peace for several months; he grad School. Seniors Donald Evans, Phantamith drop the suit. Freshman Albert Gore
Nursing $31,802 accepted an investment banking job — Senior Editor Liz Detter con- Prompol and Jason Roderiques were was the only defendant not present in
Geology $31,273 with J. P. Morgan and Co. in Decem- tributed to this article. expelled last week for lying about their court Monday.
Accounting $31,209 ber. Although he spent a good por-
l, Business Administration $30,373 tion of his Fall term Searching for 3
Advertising $25,485 position, his quest has been success- at 8
Journalism $24,588 ﬁll.
Liberal Arts $24,578 “It happened pretty quickly,” mess. . ..
Source: Michigan State Telecommunications $22,563 Riedell Said “I feel thatthejob market
. University 1998 study is very good this year. It’s been a very No, they aren ’t
good year for investment banking, but trying to
I relocate the
remains of
Lee H o u se lawn g ets face I ift 

“ The catastrophe
BY HEATHER MCDONALD dozed in order to landscape the yard. Grounds is doing it all. They are ex- that is now
——?-—‘—'—'— STAFF WRFFFR “The back area has never been land- tremely busy this time of year, and they President Elrod ‘s

 

PAGE 2 MAY 11, 1998

We take credit or cash

Why do we wittle our lives away carv-
ing out your news? We spend more time
in the Phi ofﬁce than we do in class. We
don’t get much out of it — maybe some
journalism experience, sleep deprivation
and a helluva lot of criticism.

The Executive Committee and other
student judiciary bodies spend their hours
outside of class helping people choose to
drop out of school, and all they get are
complaints of a lack in student autonomy.

Varsity athletes are in the same boat.
They work hours upon hours every day
only to. probably go unnoticed (and for
most sports outside of LAX, unmentioned
in the press). They probably aren’t headed
to the NBA or the Santa Monica Track
Club, but they still work like crazy. All
they really get for it is a nice set of abs
and two-ﬁfths of a gym credit.

Aren’t all of us worth more?

Why can’t we get more credit for what
we do —— class credit perhaps? If anyone
is going to sacriﬁce the time that we do
for anything, they deserve some reward.

Varsity athletes should at least be able
to fulﬁll their P.E. requirement. You can’t
tell us that (outside Lars Tiffany’s aero-
bic running class) their daily workouts
aren’t more rigorous than a full semester
of badminton. Most of the teams don’t
even get a crowd — they should at least
get something on their transcript.

College newspaper staffs at public uni-
versities, like  _actually get paid
oodles of money to do this jobywe do for
“fun.” This is where our plea really be-
gins. We’d love some class credit for sac-
riﬁcing our weekends, but we’d really

love money. Lots of money!
Outside of marrying well, the chances

of us living above the poverty line post-
graduation are slim, so it would be great
if the university could tease us with a little
cash while our incomes are slightly ex-
pendable. You wonder why there’ s so much
bad press? It’s because no one is paying us
to say otherwise! We’re sure even the Tri-
dent would agree with this one.

Ellie itting-tum iﬁhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey

Executive Editors

Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
Copy Editor Sarah Meldrum
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w& life Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Opinion & Editorial Editor Stephen Pesce
Sports Editors Frances Groherg
Brendan Harrington
Last Word Editor Kevin McManemin
Photo Editor Christie Phillips
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco
Business Manager Jill Jamieson
Circulation Manager Brian Rogers
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “My Views”
do not reﬁect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

  

 

Less friendly competition
threatens Night Owl Music

Wayne greets me as I pull open the Night Owl Music
door one day last September. We chat about the weather,
new album releases and current tours as I pick out Ani
DiFranco’s “Dilate.”

A used copy of “The Best of the
Velvet Underground” catches my eye,
so I grab it too. We listen to a solo
project by “the guy who does all the
really good guitar work on the Dave
Matthews albums,” as Wayne describes him.

I set the albums on the counter. Wayne smiles appre-

 

ciatively at the VU tape. He only rings me up for the
DiFranco CD. “No charge for the Velvets,” he says. And

that’s that.

Night Owl Music owner Wayne Raynal has always
treated me kindly, like he did last September. I don’t
mean to imply that he gives me a free album every time
I walk in the store. Wayne runs Night Owl, not the Sal-
vation Army, after all. But he welcomes his customers
with a genuine interest in their musical tastes, a will-
ingness to provide what his customers want and sin-
cere friendliness. You’re not treated this well in just

any music store.

I’m distressed to hear that Wayne may have to close up

NIGHT OWL MUSIC threatens closure If students do
nof'p‘at‘r‘on'i’z‘e' ‘thefellow General whotruly cares about
the music interestsof his customers.

 Red Brick Row
“  David Balsley 99

C C
uote of the week:

I’m a practicing hetero-
sexual. Practice makes
perfect!

— anonymous Phi editor

77

TALKb 2;.

shop. Facing competition from the new guys in town,
Crossroads CD5 and Tapes, tried-and-true Night Owl Mu-
sic could disappear from the Lexington music scene. Ap-
parently, we W&L students have only one year to save
the store. Here is why we should.

First, Wayne’s mantra: “All CDs a
dollar below list price and special orders
at no extra charge.” ’Nuff said.

Second, Wayne supports us.

' Waynestock provided W&L bands Hopper Genie, Under-

pants Cowboy and duo Aaron Brotherton and Anthony
Allen a place to play and a chance for us to listen. Also,
Wayne’s store features a gallery for local artists. At least,
we should support Wayne in return.

Third, Wayne is one of us. He opened Night Owl Mu-
sic after attending W&L in the ’70s. Why not patronize a
fellow General?

Fourth, the personal touch Wayne brings to Night Owl
is unique. I have never seen the friendliness that Wayne
shows his customers matched at any other store. It would
be a shame to lose the last outpost in the war between
friendly small store owners and corporate moguls.

Dave Matthews just released a new album, and as a
W&L student, you probably want to buy it. When you do,
please buy it from Wayne.

  

Self-governance
requires support

Last week, I began my career as a Phi columnist with
what some have considered an overly pessimistic view of
the current student—faculty relationship. Just as I began to
fear that I may have been too hasty, a miraculous thing
occurred: a profes- -
sor wrote a letter to
the Phi that largely
veriﬁed my claims.

I’m sure you all
remember the ill-
conceived letter —— the one that implied that students at
Washington and Lee, especially those involved in the cur-
rent judicial systems, tacitly condone misbehavior of the
worst variety. I do not think anyone would disagree with
the writer’s main point — that W&L students should be
above engaging in shameful and dangerous activities. The
commentary that accompanied his argument, however,
worries me.

If a handful of faculty members who believe what this
man seems to have been implying -— that students more or
less approve of the criminal activities we’ve witnessed of
late —— then the case for student self—govemance is slipping.
Just when the Board of Trustees is poised to encourage a
higher level of student authority, a few highly publicized
stories undermine all progress.

Take, as an example, the unfortunate plight of two of our
harder working studentjudicial systems — the IFC and the
SJC. Both have been particularly diligent in executing their
duties. One would hope that this would prove to the faculty
and the administration that students are ﬁnally fulﬁlling their
obligations to enforce the appropriate standards of conduct.
Instead, the opposite seems true.

I perceive a fundamental error in the collective judge-
ment of our faculty; they are too quick to confuse student
action with student reaction. Some individuals among us
will behave badly; and no matter how strong a system we
devise, we will never eliminate individuals’ indiscretion. At
best we can establish a system that deals with problems as
they arise.

I ﬁrmly believe that, had students been given the oppor-
tunity to prove themselves in the emergency cases of hazing
last term, student reaction would have equaled the
administration’s. Unfortunately, because of the well-mean-
ing intervention of the Hill, we were never given the chance
to prove ourselves worthy of trust.

I hope that such rash judgement might be avoided in the
future. Allowing students to manage their own affairs has
traditionally been one of W&L’s most successful innova-
tions. Though certain members of the faculty are beginning
to doubt the feasibility of this goal, I encourage the remain-
der to look more closely at how most students respond to the
lamentable actions of their peers.

We need to restore trust in student self—govemance. Trad-
ing caustic remarks in editorial pages will not fulﬁll the role
of campus dialogue. The status quo is losing credibility,
and we need to consider the possibility of establishing a ﬁrmer
order.

 

A letter to The Ring-tum Phi

A letter to the incoming presidents of W&L fraternities

Gentlemen:

I write this letter because I am greatly disturbed, both
by the actions of some fraternities the past few years, and
especially this year, and the troubling attitude of some of
those involved as reported in the student newspapers.

I write this letter, not as a member of the Board of Trust-
ees — I have no authority to speak for the Board, nor would
I presume to do so. I write it only for myself, an alumnus
who, as do you, loves Washington and Lee University and
feels the need to rebut some of the misconceptions and
shibboleths which exist and correct some of the untiuths and
half-truths.

There has been an increase over the past several years
in both the incidence and severity of drinking and hazing.
The president of the fraternity whose ten members were
suspended seemed more concerned with procedural nice-
ties than that the actions of the members of his fraternity
brought shame to it and the University.

In a letter printed in The Trident, which should receive
an award for chutzpah, a senior alleges that “student au-
tonomy is dead at Washington and Lee;” goes on to chas-
tise President Elrod for “driving off a dozen men who
were true assets to this University;” asserts that “fully co-
operating with the University, a student can expect to re-
ceive a penalty which is a monument to hypocrisy;” and
ﬁnally that the University acted inappropriately in taking
control of the process. Student autonomy is not dead but
did have to be preemptively taken away in this case be-
cause of the seriousness of the offense. Surely, no rea-
sonable person can expect that the level of autonomy that
he or she is granted will not bear some relationship to his
or her responsibility level. The president’s actions were
fully justiﬁed by the severity of the case and fully sup-
ported by the rector, who is known for his commitment
to student autonomy.

What this says to me — and it is depressing — is
that two entire pledge classes, a number of upperclass-
men and presumably some percentage of those from
whom we have not heard, just don’t get it. They don’t
get it that honor and civility are the cornerstone of
W&L society; they don’t get it that hazing is dishon-
orable and completely at variance with minimum stan-
dards of civility. They don’t get it that those who ad-
mitted complicity were doing no more than adhering
to the honor system. They don’t get any of it.

For many years, I was fully supportive of fraterni-
ties. I extolled their values — bonding, learning to live
in a group environment, the opportunity for a leader-
ship experience. Unfortunately, and sadly, over the past
few years, I have come to the realization that the dark
side of fraternities —the all too prevalent cynicism,
the excessive drinking, the hazing — so overshadows
their benefits that it is questionable whether the
University’s values can coexist with those evidenced
by the fraternities.

Based on my conversations with board members and
alumni, I must tell you that patience is wearing thin.
If fraternities are to continue to exist at W&L, they
must operate more responsibly than they have over the
past several years.  If they do not demonstrate an
awareness oftheir responsibility as W&L students and
a willingness to live under the spirit as well as the let-
ter of Board policy, they will ﬁnd themselves subject
to increasing control. It is up to you, the presidents of
the fraternities, to see that your members get the mes-
sage, “loud and clear.” If you don’t and they don’t,
you and they will have no one but yourselves to blame
for the consequences.

Sincerely,
Gray Castle

 

 

Where do you think you will be in 10 years?

at

  

“On the beach, getting drunk.”

——Dil|on Whisler ‘O0

 

“Still be pledging $19.98 to the “Tacking my 95 Theses on the door “A wrestler in WCW.”
Alumni Fund.” ofwashington Hall.”
—JaS0n Zacher ’98 —The Gadﬂy ’00 ——Andrew Fiske ‘O1

’$

‘f

 

—<

ai

  

MAY 11, 1998

Curtain call on the Hot Line

he Washington and Lee University Theatre Department will be presenting Hot Line, a one-act play by Elaine

May, next weekend in the Rehearsal Hall of the Lenfest Center.

The show, directed by senior Zach Hanks, is the story of a novice suicide hotline counselor named Ken. The
play follows Ken’s experience with a sharp-tongued, suicidal hooker named Dorothy. It is a story of need, a
powerful and passionate piece that mixes comedy and drama. The show will feature performances by Colin Tate
’0 I, Erika Van Helden ’98, Ryan Truax ’O1, Kathie Soroka ’0l and Vanessa Chen ’01. Performances will be Friday,
May 15 at 8 p.m., Saturday, May 16 at 8 p.m. and Sunday, May 17 at 8 p.m. No tickets are required for the show.

 

SOME OF THE students in-
volved with the production take
a break from creating a master-
piece to smile for the camera. The
show will be this weekend in the
Lenfest Center, and no tickets are
required. Pictured are (left to
right, standing): Cassie Ritter,
Colin Tate, Zach Hanks, Erika
Cassutti, Kathie Soroka; (left to
right, seated): Erika Van Helden,
Ryan Truax. Pnom (,'()UR'lESl’ 01«'
IHI-I W&L THEATRE DEl’AR7Ml:'N’l'

—— compiled from staﬂ reports

W&life

G&L welcomesnew leader

Ever wonder who’s in G&L besides Alex Christensen?
Sure you have. The organization, for reasons you might
guess, leaves publicizing its membership up to its mem-
bers. Since Christensen is graduating, however, junior Jes-
sica Simpson is stepping up to the plate to take over lead-
ership of the four-year-old campus group.

G&L is Washington and Lee University’s gay, lesbian
and bisexual organization. Christensen is gay. What is
Simpson?

“Well,” Simpson said, “I don’t feel the need to label
myself beyond ‘president.’ I would rather become aware
of my sexuality by discovering it, instead of by consulting
some set of expectations. Besides, any label, even the word
‘sexuality,’ makes it seem like I’m just a sexual person. But
I’m more than that. I ’m an intellectual person, a religious
person, a W&L student and more.”

Simpson’s goals for the group include maintaining
G&L’s public presence and fostering understanding and
education among students with different backgrounds and
perspectives.

“The group walks a ﬁne line between letting its mem-
bers hide out or escape and helping them ﬁnd something
useful to share with other people,” she said. “I want to

make sure it continues to be useful to its members and the
W&L community in that way.”

Christensen helped to found the group during his
freshman year. The membership has been steady at about
eight to 12 members who attend meetings and events.

Some controversy also followed the group through
its event in Lee Chapel, Christensen’s well-attended de-
bate with Glenn Miller and its reception for the “Ellen”
coming-out episode.

“Some people see me as a troublemaker,” said
Christensen. “But I didn’t create the controversy. I just
didn’t back down on it. I think you can see that from the
relatively quiet way we’ve conducted ourselves this year.
The atmosphere has gotten better already. That’s why I’m
so positive about Jessica taking over the group. She can
move it beyond what it’s become with me as the public
face without taking away from anything we’ve accom-
plished so far.”

Anyone interested in contacting G&L or joining the
group can call Christensen at 464-1679 or e-mail Simpson
at jsimpson@wlu.edu. All meetings are conﬁdential.

— compiled from staﬂ reports

PAGE 5

Religion revivedon campus

CD Religion plays an important role in the lives of many W&L students

BY GINGERPHILLIPS

B17I%47UR1§Fo/rm

Religion? 1 haven ’t heard much about that in a while. My parents used to make me go to church with them,

but I ’m in college now. Does it all really matter?

Maybe these thoughts have crossed your mind re-
cently, or maybe they haven’t because you simply don’t
have enough time to think about religion. Perhaps you
pass by a church as if it were just any other building and
you haven’t read the Bible since you were forced to do so
in your English Lit class. Religion, however, is a prevalent
force on the Washington and Lee campus and an essential
part of the lives of many W&L students.

Numerous religious organizations are active on cam-
pus. “I grew up with a strong religious background. When
I came to W&L I wanted to seek out some way to help me
to grow more,” said an anonymous junior. “Joining a rel’-
gious group helped me to do that.”

Two of the largest of these groups are the Inter Va
sity Christian Fellowship and Catholic Campus Minis
Inter Varsity is a student-led, inter denominati I '~ 
that meets once a week and sponsors a variety
tivities throughout the year.

“One of our main goals is to have a place for peopl
to hang out and not feel pressured,” said junior IV mem - -
Dave Passavant. “They can be comfortable and really f 0
cus on fellowship. We provide a bond that goes beyon
some other groups. A lot of the members are in fratemitie
and sororities; IV is just something different.”

While groups such as IV and CCM claim to offer a
comfortable atmosphere, many students still feel discour-
aged from joining.

“[ReIigious groups] often seem too large, too imper-
sonal or even too agenda-oriented to many young adults,”
said William “Burr” Datz, campus minister and organizer
of CCM.

College is a time in which most students begin to ask
questions about themselves and deeply reﬂect on their
beliefs on a variety of things. Despite religious activity on
campus, many students have yet to consider the real mean-
ing of religion in their lives. Others are confused about
what exactly religion is.

“I think that many people have a misconception
about what religion really is. They think it is just a set
of rules that they must follow,” said Passavant. “How-
ever, religion is not necessarily just going to church.
For me it is the most fundamental thing in my life. Reli-
gion is the relationship that you have with God and
with other believers.”

Many students grow up following the religious prac-
tices of their parents without ever thinking about religion
for themselves. When they come to college they are faced
with unprecedented independence and must make their
own decisions. Religion oﬂen falls to the wayside as other
priorities take over.

“Religion is often something that young adults
have been given, and grown up with; in one sense, it’s
the only menu they know,” said Datz. “When they ar-
rive on campus, the decision to attend church is no
longer a decision their parents will make for them. Some
consciously decide to not attend, some unconsciously
decide to stay in bed.”

Freshman Sarah Walters said, “If people only went to
church because their parents made them go, then they
probably don’t feel really close to God and won’t go to
church once they come to college.”

“Whether you go to church or not depends on your
motivation. You have to have a personal interest in going,

   
   
   
     
   
   
   
  
   
    
 

not just because someone else wants you to go,” said the
anonymousjunior.

College culture itself provides many distractions that
sometimes take the place of religion. Students may feel
pressured to focus on what their peers think is popular or
cool, and too often religion does not ﬁt that description.

“Many people get away from home and just want to
do their own thing. Once they get away from their parents,
religion isn’t trendy anymore,” said junior Seth Kellermann,
chairperson of Inter Varsity. ‘‘It is not easy to be a strong
Christian here. In this drinking and hook-up culture, it is
ard to be different and to profess what you believe.”
Students also have other priorities that they consider
: ore important than religion. Academic and social reasons

hen keep them from focusing on their religious beliefs. On
" * ~ mings, many students are sleeping late, recover-
-~ : ’ ~ 2- r I angover, or yes - even studying for an exam.
“People make up a lot of reasons why they don’t make
.- ligion a priority in their lives,” said Walters. “It seems ri-
V iculous to make excuses like that because everyone always
akes time for parties and other things they want to do.”

Many area churches make efforts to accommodate stu-
V ents who, for whatever reason, cannot make it to an early
» oming service on Sunday. St. Patrick’s Catholic Church
holds mass at 8 and 10:30 a.m. and at 5 p.m. Other area
churches also have special groups and meetings devoted
to college students.

Christianity is the most prominent religion on cam-
pus, which may discourage students of other faiths.

‘‘I really don’t ﬁnd a great deal of diversity in religion
at W&L. I think that this is a result of a lack of cultural
diversity on campus as well,” said freshman Deena
Johnson.

Despite the apparent lack of religion in some seg-
ments of the W&L community, there is a myriad of stu-
dents who have already developed deeply rooted reli-
gious convictions.

“People who had a strong religious commitment be-
fore they came to college continue to maintain that even
aﬁer they come to college,” Kellennann said.

Walters said, “Religion helps me to maintain the focus
on what is really important in my life.”

For Walters and other students, religion is the central
component in their lives.

“Life is a quest for truth, and for me, the truth is in my
faith,” said the anonymous junior. “It has deﬁnitely been a
challenge to maintain that in college because this atmo-
sphere does not really do anything to encourage religion.
However, since I’ve come here, my beliefs have become
ten times stronger.”

“In my experience, if young adults are experiencing
spiritual hunger, they will go wherever they will be fed,
wherever God leads them to find sustenance," said Datz.
“It’s a great time to ask questions, and I believe that today’s
college students, on these and other campuses, are asking
those questions of religion and faith.”

As religion becomes a major factor in the lives of an
increasing number of students, others will be forced to
deﬁne religion in their own hearts and minds.

“Faith has given me a sense of peace and content-
ment that I otherwise wouldn’t have,” Kellennann said.

As other students begin to search for the same thing,
religion will continue to play an important role on campus.

  

.,.

It's Travel Time!

It ’s spring, and that means it ’s time to relax, kick back,
and travel to exotic and fim-ﬁlled locations. But in our
little corner of Virginia, there isn ’t that much to do close
by (no, really? I). So here 's a guide to interesting destina-
tions no more than a few hours away ﬁom good old Lex.

‘ , Courtesy Lazar Brisacca ViTrri5 Bmcxaim RECORDING .Cow=.42vr 1

Of course, most stu-
dents are already familiar
with D.C. even if they haven’t
been there. It’s the nation’s capital, the home of count-
less museums, attractions and people. But for those
students who have never visited there or tend to miss
the interesting (but tourist-related) stuff, here’s a little
guide.

The Smithsonian is worth seeing. It doesn’t matter
how boring some people think it is; this is the big col-
lection of museums, the place where the Fonz’sjacket
and Dorothy’s slippers are kept, so visit. The museums
ring the Mall (a big grassy expanse) that stretches from
the Washington Monument to the Capitol. A little brisk
walking will get you to everything you want to see in
this area. For your own good, though, try not to go on
the weekends. Spring is a big vacation time in D.C.,
both for ordinary families and for school trips. So un-
less you plan to share your experience with a busload
of annoying seventh-graders, plan to go during the
week.

For history or architecture buffs, there are the
Jefferson Memorial, the Lincoln Memorial, the National
Cathedral, the Vietnam Veteran’s Memorial, the National
Archives and the Capitol itself. It’ll feeljust like home
once you see all the white columns. Other hot spots
include the White House (take note: no photographs
allowed inside the building), the Supreme Court build-
ing, and the Library of Congress. After a while, you’ll
get used to the metal detectors at the entrance to every
building. For a bit of adventure, dress relatively well
and explore the tunnels under the Congressional ofﬁce
buildings. These are concrete access tunnels that con-
veniently connect several buildings under the streets

 

This week, we ‘re oﬂ to Washington D. C.

to make walking traﬁic-free.
Of course, there are metal
detectors down here, too,
so don’t carry weaponry with you.

If you’re an X-phile, visit the FBI building. If you
have time, you can also try to contact your congres-
sional representative and set up a meeting. They’re
usually pretty good about ﬁnding the time to chat with
up-and-coming college students. If you just feel like
walking, take a stroll around the Mall area, since people
tend to encounter interesting things around here. In
April 1994, a group of high school students who were
meandering around this area found a Ross Perot press
conference, a Jesse Jackson march, Michael Dukakis
taking a stroll and Bill Clinton on his daily jog, all on the
same weekday. Bring a camera, just in case.

Of course, if you want to avoid thought-related
attractions, choices include Planet Hollywood, Hard
Rock Cafe and about seven jillion other restaurants
and shopping areas. lt’s customary for Washington
and Lee students to have friends at the D.C.-area col-
leges so getting around isn’t a problem. And one of the
main reasons for driving all the way up there is, of
course, the concert selection. The Washington Post
does a good job of listing the bands and other acts that
will soon grace the city, so buy a copy and plan your
trip.

If you want more info about the D.C. area, try vis-
iting http://dc.yahoo.com for goodies about the city
and surrounding environs. The quickest way to get to
D.C. is to get on I-64 northeast for about I 10 miles, then
east on HWY 66 for about 76 miles.

— Puoms (.'()(IR’l'I:‘.\'l' or Jim CHRISTIAN,
www. V()l('l;‘Nl:'7'.('()M/~.II£l-MAN/lWA.S'HI)( 2 H'IMI.

 

 

 

PAGE 4

Men’s lax
churched by
the Bishops

BY BRENDAN HARRINGION

Si=oirisEDrroR

 

Every year that Washington and Lee has qualiﬁed for the
Men’s Lacrosse Division III Tournament, they have been
sent home packing by Ohio Wesleyan University. This year
was no exception, as the Bishops scored ten second half
goals to pull away from the Generals and cruise to a 17-8
victory in the quarterﬁnal of the NCAA tournament on Sat-
urday aftenioon at Wilson Field.

The Generals knew they would have to play a nearly ﬂaw-
less game to down the No. 1 seed Ohio Wesleyan (14-1),
whose only loss came against Division 1 Butler in their first
game of the season. But the Generals just couldn’t seem to
ﬁnd the net on this day, as Bishops goalie Kevin McGum
robbed the Generals on numerous occasions and finished
with 17 saves.

‘‘It just wasn’t our day,” said senior goalie Scott Jack-
son, who fmished with 15 saves. “They’re a team that is
going to captilize on any mistakes you make. We just
weren’t shooting well, and it would have helped if I’d made
a few more saves.”

“We played hard but we just didn’t execute,” senior cap-
tain Paul Stanley said. “We didn’t shoot well and their keeper
[ Kevin McGum ] came up with some saves that we thought
would have dropped.”

Kevin’s brother Darren McGurn, Dan Stroka, and
Evan Dunne each scored four goals to lead the offen-
sive attack for the Bishops. Senior attackman David
Maguire also added a goal and three assists in the win-
ning cause as the Generals were unable to contain the
nation’s top ranked offense.

Ohio Wesleyan jumped out to a 4-1 lead in the ﬁrst
quarter before back-to-back goals by freshman Matt Dugan
brought the Generals within a goal early in the second
quaiter. The Bishops then answered with two goals of their
own to make it 6-3 before Dugan struck again and brought
the Generals back within two. But that would be the clos-
est the Generals would get, as the Bishops scored two
goals before the end of the half to take a 8-4 lead into the
locker room.

The Generals hoped their season-long dominance of the
third quarter would continue against OWU, but the Bishops
shot down those hopes rather quickly as they scored their
third straight goal less than a minute into the quarter to make
it 9-4. The Generals would not get closer than four goals the
rest of the way, as the Bishops outscored the Generals 10-4
in the second half to make the final score 17-8.

‘‘It was a shame to lose,” freshman midﬁelder Pope Hack-
ney said. “But it was a great season and you can’t take that
away from us.”

Matt Dugan closed out a remarkable ﬁeshman season
with a career high ﬁve goals for the Generals. Dugan fm-
ished the season with 56 points, the most ever scored by a
freshman at W&L. The remaining three goals for the Gener-
als were scored by sophomore Colin Dougherty and seniors
Paul Stanley and Ed Dougherty.

With their thirteenth straight victory, the Bishops ad-
vanced to the semiﬁnals of the tournament to face Nazareth
Saturday in Rochester, N.Y. The winner of that game will
face either Salisbury State or Washington College, which
were both victorious in the quarterﬁnal on Saturday.

The Generals finished a terriﬁc season at 13-3. Their all-
time record in the Division 111 toumament dropped to 2-4, all
four of those losses coming at the hands of Ohio Wesleyan.

“You have to be happy with what we did this year,” Stanley
said. “ I was proud to be a part of a team that put W&L
lacrosse back on the map.”

“We had a great season and you can’t ask for more than
that,” Jackson added. “ We would much rather finish the

season with a loss against the number one team in the nation
instead of beating up on VMl.”

sports

Women’s lax loses, no regrets

St. Mary ’s College Seahawks defeat the Generals in NCAA 1st round

BY JASON ZACHER SENIOR Emok

 

To a competitive athlete, a loss is painful, but not getting
revenge against a team is agonizing.

That was the case when St. Mary’s (Md.) beat Wash-
ington and Lee 1 1-8 in the ﬁrst round of the NCAA Divi-
sion III tournament on Wednesday, ending the Generals’
season and dropping their record to 13-3 —- two of those
losses came at the hands of St. Mary’s.

W&L jumped out to an early lead, but there were three
ties and three lead changes. The first half ended in a 4-4
stalemate. The Seahawks overpowered the Generals in the
second half, however, scoring six of the first seven goals of
the half. With 7:06 remaining in the game, St. Mary’s had built
a comfortable 10-5 lead.

“It was so hot and we were really tired in the second half,”
sophomore Katherine Riddle said. “They were just faster
and more prepared to deal with the heat and being tired.”

Senior captain Whitney Parker answered by chipping in
two goals and pulling the game to 10-7, but that’s as close at
the Generals would get.

W&L was led by Parker’s three goals. Riddle and senior
captain Lorraine Taurassi each scored two, while senior Susie
Creamer added another goal.

“We play every game to have no regrets,” Taurassi said.
“They were simply the better team —- that happens some-
times.”

Sophomore Ginny J emigan played strong for the Gen-
erals once again, stopping 14 of the 25 shots taken on her,
but the offense couldn’t take advantage of her play. St.
Mary’s goalkeeper Tara Jensen made 8 saves on only 16
shots by the Generals.

Seniors Gia Trionfo and Melissa Moore and sopho-

 

FRESHMAN A TTACKMAN Pope Hackney tries to get around two defenders in the semifinals of the NCAA Men ’s
Division 1]] tournament on Saturday. The Battling Biships of Ohio Wesleyan defeated the Generals 17-8 in the

afternoon contest.

HOLLISTER HOVl;‘Y/EXEC(lTIVE EDITOR

more Kari Meyer each scored three goals for St. Mary’s.

St. Mary’s beat the Generals over spring break by a ‘

score of 13-1, a loss some W&L players contributed to the
lack of practice and the fact that three of W&L’s top scor-

, ers were not playing at 100 percent.

“We’re glad we got to play them again,” Taurassi said.
“We really feel that we redeemed ourselves. They were a
really great team.” .

A St. Mary’s advanced to the quarterﬁnals at the No. 1
seed College of New Jersey on Sunday, who beat the
Seahawks 11-7.

The trip to the NCAA tournament was the first by the
Generals since 1993. W&L earned the trip to the touma-
merit alter ﬁnishing the regular season with the best record
in ODAC history (8-0), and beating arch-rival Roanoke Col-
lege in the ODAC title game 9-5.

Despite the loss to St. Mary’s, Taurassi still looks fondly
on a solid season that included the ODAC title.

“It was a really hard to ﬁnish the seaon like that,” she
said. “But the season went really well.”

MAY 11, 1998

Shapardl
Blankinship
reach semis

BYFi2ANa=sGRoizizRo

SPCXl'SF1]'l‘CR

  

In the spring of 1995,
freshmen Berry
Blankinship and Ericka
Shapard looked on as a
fellow freshman, Natalia Garcia, and senior Marilyn Baker
capture the Division 111 Individual Doubles Championship.

Now it’s their turn to try and repeat the accomplish-
ment. For these two seniors, being ODAC Champions
just isn't enough.

Today, when most of Division 111 women's tennis
has put their racquets up for the
season, the team of Blankinshipl
Shapard takes on Kenyon in the in-
dividual Doubles Semiﬁnal match.
The team has fought through both
the first round and the
quarterﬁnals, defeating teams from
both Gustavus Adolphus and
Claremont-Mudd-Scripps to reach
the semiﬁnals.

They'll have to work for it. The
Kenyon team of Caryn Cuthbert and Erin Hockman has
not dropped a set in the tournament, cruising to easy
victories over Emory in the ﬁrst round and Williams in
the quarterﬁnals.

“I’m actually pretty positive about playing

 
  

u

..’3"rr‘"*"‘ “"":’<:*r“*'-

Blankinship

[Kenyon]," Blankinship said. “We have nothing to lose,-

so there’s no reason we shouldn't come out swinging
against them. lt’s going to be a tough match, but if we
play to our potential, we definitely
have a shot.”

Her partner holds similar senti-
ments. “We play two very differ-
ent styles of tennis,” Shapard said.
“They’re huge hitters, while we’re
more of a ﬁnesse team. We’ll have
to come out very aggressive and
play our game very well.”

Shapard also competed in
singles, losing in the second
round to the No. 1 Amherst player,
freshman Jamie Cohen. Brook l-lartzell, the team’s sec-
ond singles contender also lost in the second round to
Kristen Olsen of UC-San Diego.

The women as a team were also successful in the
NCAA tournament, losing in the quarterﬁnals to
Gustavus Adolphus 6-3. Wins were recorded by Shapard
and Erin Eggers in singles, and the team of Blankinship/
Shapard in doubles.

“We did very well this season,” Shapard said. “Ev-
eryone played beyond our expectations, but we have
no regrets.”

Blankinship has high praise and high hopes for the
team. “We were very young, with no juniors,” -.‘-he said.
“The future will be better. The freshmen and sopho-
mores have enormous potential."

 

Shapard

Quarterfinals
Wed., May 6

First Round
Tuesday, May 5

Trini Texas 18-3
Trinitv

BYE

NCAA DIVISION III WoMi«:N’s TENNIS RESULTS

 

Semifinals
Thurs., May 7

Finals
Friday, May 8

Amherst

Amherstg 16-1 2
UC-San Diego g 1 1-8!

Skidmore} 17-1)
Luther g Iowan 12-42

Amherst

Skidmore

Skidmore

Skidmore

College of NJ (12-1)

Emory

Emo 18-4

Washington and Lee 116-3)
Willim§(§-4)

W&L 5-3

Skidmore

 

GAC 6-3

Univ. ofthe Southg 12-82 M
Gustavus Adolphus 5 17-4}

Hope College 1 17-1 1

Claremont-Mudd-

Scrippsj 18-3 l

GAC

CMS

Kenyon

Kenyon

Kenyon g 12-52
BYE

Kenyon

 

 

 

 

MAY 11, 1998

WOOLDRIDGE GIVES SENIOR RECITAL

Senior Margaret Ann Wooldridge will perform a piano re- .b
cital on Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Johnson Theater of the
Lenfest Center. Her program will include Bach’s Chromatic
Fantasy and Fugue in D Minor, Beethoven’s Sonata in E

Major, Op. 109, Gershwin’s Three Preludes and Chopin’s
Fantasie in F Minor.

C-SCHOOL SPONSORS SERIES ON WOMEN, POLITICS
'4 Stuart Warner, a professor of philosophy at Roosevelt University, will give
his lecture “Mothers, Wives and Daughters: The Women of Tocqueville’s De-
mocracy in America” this Friday in Room 327.

The lecture is part of a symposium sponsored by the Williams School of
Commerce called “The Nature of Women and the Art of Politics.” The
§ymposium’s goal is to stimulate inquiry about the meanings of “women’s
nature” and the “art” of politics through examination of classic Western works
and visiting lecturers.

APO HOSTS CYSTIC FIBROSIS WALKATHON
Alpha Phi Omega, a national service fraternity, will host a walkathon next
Wednesday. The walkathon will beneﬁt “Great Strides,” a cystic ﬁbrosis re-
search foundation.
, The walk will begin at the Liberty Hall Ruins at 6 p.m., continue past the Law
School, Woods Creek Apartments and along the Chessie Trail. The walk will
proceed around the Colonnade, over the footbridge and return to the Ruins as
the ﬁnal destination. The course is expected to take less than two hours.
Walkers are encouraged to collect sponsors and donations. The Alpha
Phi Omega contact is Elizabeth Slonaker. She may be contacted with ques-
tions at 462-4272.

JUDGE MANELLA ADDRESSES LAW GRADUATES

The Honorable Nora Manella, United States Attorney for the central District
bf California, will deliver the address for commencement exercises for the Wash-
ington and Lee University School of Law on Sunday.

The ceremony will begin at 2:30 p.m. on the lawn in front of the Lee House.
W&L expects to award juris doctor degrees to 115 third-year students in the
r,i_~niversity’s l43rd graduating law class.

ETHICS INSTITUTE BRINGS GREEN TO SPEAK
Washington and Lee University’s Business Ethics Institute will bring Ronald
M. Green, the John Phillips Professor of Religion and Director of Dartmouth
.,ollege’s Ethics Institute, to speak next Friday at 4:30 pm. in room 221 of the
Williams School of Commerce. His lecture is titled “The Emerging Global Busi-
ness Ethics” and is open to the public.
Green has written ﬁve books an many articles about applied ethics, espe-
ytially business ethics and bioethics. He is the author of The Ethical Manager
K1994) and Religion and Moral Reason (1988). He is also a member of the
editorial board of The Business Ethics Quarterly.

MUSIC DEPARTMENT- PRESENTS REVIEW . .
*5 “New York, New“ York,” a Broadwaylmusical review-, will be presented on
Saturday in the Johnson Theatre of the Lenfest Center. The program will con-
sist of selections from shows set in New York, including Bemstein’s “On the
Town” and “West Side Story,” Sondheirn’s “Company,” Jule Styne’s “Bells are
Ringing” and “Funny Girl” and Harry Warren’s “42nd Street.”

The musical review will be directed by Washington and Lee University
faculty member Scott Williamson. William McCorl<le will accompany the perfor-
mance, and the numbers will be sung by a cast of students.

HERB GUILD SELLS PLANTS IN HOPKINS GREEN
The Valley of Virginia Herb Guild will present its third annual Herb Sale in
Lexington’s Hopkins Green on Saturday from 9 a.m. until noon. A collection of
thymes as well as a vast assortment of many different culinary, fragrant and
ornamental herb plants will be for sale.
‘I Among the many herb plants to be offered at the sale are varieties of basil,
salvia, coneﬂowers, lavenders, thymes, sweet woodruff,
artemsias, mint, dill, chives, monardas, rosemary and
numerous others. I
In addition to herb plants, other items will also be
for sale: tote bags, t-shirts and sweatshirts with herb
designs as well as an assortment of informative book-
lets on herbs and gardening. Strawberry pots planted
with herbs will also be for sale.

   

rjjjjjjjjw

' NEED
CASH?

l
I
I The Ring-tum Phi needs help
selling ads. You’ll earn
commission on each ad you
I sell. Leave a message at
I 462-4060 or e-mail
I jjamieso@wlu.edu.
in

HELP
WANTED

4

vi; area. Experience un-
necessary, will train.

Call Medicard,
1 -541-386-5290
Ext. 1 18M.

%
*1

 

U The Nurturing Network is dedicated to helping any
Me” and ""°me” ear“ woman with an unwanted pregnancy give life to her °
$375 weekIy.pr°°eSS.' unborn child. We have specialized resources to meet o
& afsgmtgggdhgegi the practical needs of working and college women  .
home'_ 'lmmediate offering a real alternative  one which recognizes .
openingS_ your local your unique values, needs, and circumstances. .

A phone call to 1-800-TNN-4MOM can help you
give your child a future
without giving up on your own.

POLITICAL “WATCHDOG”TO SPEAK IN NORTHEN

Larry Klayman, a chairman and general counsel of Judicial Watch, will speak
in Northen Auditorium next Monday at 7:30 p.m. The talk is sponsored by
Contact.

Judicial Watch is a conservative nonpartisan ethical and legal “watchdog”
group. Klayman and his group have brought 14 cases against the Clinton
administration. The group uncovered the illegal Democratic National Commit-
tee fundraiser and the Clinton campaign ﬁnance scandal. Judicial Watch also
has a case against the Justice Department for Janet Reno’s failure to appoint
independent counsel to investigate the fundraising scandal.

Klayman began gs a Justice Department lawyer, and later created his private
practice as Klayman & Associates, P.C. He earned his bachelor’s degree from
Duke University in 1974, and his juris doctor degree from Emory University
Law School in 1977.

LITERARY MAGAZINES SPONSOR READING

Ariel and The Southern Collegian, two Washington and Lee literary maga-
zines, will host a student reading program followed by an open reading Wednes-
day in Northen Auditorium. The student program will feature poetry by Geoffrey
Bowley ’99, Alex Christensen ’98, Courtney Miller ’98, Katie Moore ’98, Kris
O’Neal ’98 and Susan Slim ’01.

KUMPURIS DELIVERS SHEPHERD LECTURE

Andrew G. Kumpuris, M.D., a 1971 graduate of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, will speak on “Health Care for the Poor: Obstacles and Prognosis” 7:30
p.m. Monday in Northen Auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Shep-
herd Poverty Program.

Kumpuris received a B.S., magna cum laude, from W&L, where he was a
member of the scholastic All American Football Team, Who’s Who in Ameri-
can Colleges and Universities, and Omicron Delta Kappa. He received his M.D.
degree with honors from Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas, where
he also did his internship, residency and fellowship in cardiology.

PARTICIPATE IN PHONATHON

The Annual Fund is hiring callers for its Spring
Phonathon. Participants are paid $5.25 per hour for calling
alumni and asking for pledges during two evenings or more
per week. Contact Shelley Milligan at Ext. 8487 or

mmilliga@wlu.edu for training times.

INDIANS PLAY IN LEE CHAPEL

The Ofﬁce of International Education’s International Performing Arts Series
will bring Shivkumar Shanna, Rahul Sharma and Shafaat Ahmed Khan to Lee
Chapel 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. The concert of Indian classical music is in celebra-
tion of the 50th anniversary of India’s independence.

   
 
  

INDIANS PLAY IN LEE CHAPEL

The Ofﬁce of International Education’ 5 Intemational Performing Arts Series
will bring Shivkumar Sharma, Rahul Shanna and Shafaat Ahmed Khan to Lee
Chapel 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. The concert of Indian classical music is in celebra-
tion of the 50th anniversary of India’s independence.

‘BLOOD’ TAKES THE DUPONT STAGE

Jennifer Bloomﬁeld will be performing her one-woman show, "Blood, White
& Blue", 7 pm. Tuesday in duPont Auditorium. The show will be sponsored by
Women’s Forum. '

Bloomﬁeld wrote and stars in the show, which, she says, is about “self-
realization,” and “the ways in which individuals in our society become com-
modities.” There are no props or scenery, and Bloomﬁeld plays 25’-30 charac-
te"rs’," including a personiﬁed giant breast. “It’s a candid, open account of the
human experience in a well-developed, surreal way,” said Roshni Nirody,
Women’ 5 Forum Public Relations Coordinator.

Bloomﬁeld has performed “Blood” in cities across the country, including
San Francisco, Burlington and Oxford, Ohio. Her full-length play, “Escaping
Warsaw,” premiered off-Broadway in March.

TALK ABOUT COLLEGE DRINKING
The Health Education Office will host an OCTAA (On
Campus Talking About Alcohol) program 6 p.m. until 8
p.m. Thursday in the University Center. OCTAA hopes
to create a “new way of thinking about drinking at W&L”
by explaining how to make low-risk drinking choices, how
to estimate your biological risk for alcohol related prob-
lems and how alcohol affects your body based on quan-
tity/frequency choices. Refreshments will be served during the program.
Call the Health Education Ofﬁce at 462-4501 to reserve a place.

 

BROTHERTON, FORREST ‘ENCHANT’ AUDIENCE

Seniors Aaron Brotherton and Christopher Forrest will present their senior
composition recital entitled “One Enchanted Evening” 8 p.m. Tuesday in the
Johnson Theater. The public is invited to attend.

—E-mail your General Notes to tgrant@wlu.edu

F
PREGNANT...

AND FEELING
- ALONE?
WANT SOME
CHOICES TO
CONSIDER?

The
Nurturin
Network

 

 

RIOTS ROCK THREE COLLEGE CAMPUSES

Riots broke out at three universities the weekend of May 2 due to
new university policies on alcohol.

Students reacted to a ban on drinking at a popular campus site by
starting bonﬁres and staging and out-of-control protest at Michigan State
University. Washington State University students threw rocks and beer
cans at police officers alter the ofﬁcers attempted to break up groups out-
side of local bars. Similar disturbances occurred at Ohio’s University of
Akron. Police arrested dozens of students for public drunkenness.

The insurrections are just a few in a growing trend of alcohol-related
problems facing college campuses across the nation. According to a
recent report, college alcohol arrests are up 10 percent from last year.
And a Harvard School of Public Health survey of 17,000 students indi-
cated that 84 percent drink regularly and 44 participate in binge drinking.

Alcohol~related deaths are on the rise, too. Five students died alco-
hol-related deaths last year alone in Virginia.

MY LAI REPORTER DIES

Ron Ridenhour, a soldier turned journalist who exposed the atrocities
in the 1968 My Lai massacre and went on to become an award-winning
investigative reporter, died Sunday. He was 52, and reportedly died of a
heart attack while playing handball.

CHILD TARGETS TEACHER AFTER ‘TIME-OUT’

A 5-year-old kindergarten pupil in Memphis, Tenn. was arrested after
bringing a loaded pistol to school because he wanted to kill his teacher
for punishing him with “time-out," according to police records. The .25-
caliber semiautomatic pistol, in the child's backpack, was conﬁscated by
teacher Margie Foster on Friday after another pupil brought her a bullet.

, FIRST LADY RECEIVES NASTY E-MAIL

Two high school seniors were suspended for ﬁve days after being
questioned about an e-mail sent to Hillary Clinton from a school com-
puter. The e-mail reportedly contained profanities and a comment that
could be interpreted as a threat. The two 18-year-olds were removed
from class on Wednesday by Secret Service agents. No charges were
ﬁled. Under federal law, anyone convicted of threatening to harm mem-
bers of the president's family faces up to three years in prison.

CONGRESS CONSIDERS NEW COINS

Congress is considering giving a new look to the dollar coin and the
quarter, starting in 1999. Issuing a new gold-colored dollar coin will save
government printing costs, because, with normal use, coins last about
30 years while dollar bills have to be replaced every 18 months. Con-
gress also approved a program to redesign the reverse side of the quar-
ter to honor each of the 50 states. Five states will be featured with new
quarters each year, starting with Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey,
Georgia and Connecticut.

, KEVORKIAN JAILED

Dr. Jack Kevorkian and an associate were jailed Thursday night after
allegedly scufﬂing with police ofﬁcers who had pulled Kevorkian over
to ask about a corpse in the back seat of his car.

—Source.' AP Wire and FDIC Consumer Newsletter

IIPIIRTMENT FOR RENT

froollorrt location
.3’ Bedrooms

lllioroworo
FOR MORE INFORMATION,
CALL 463-7690

Lexington, Virginia

Comfortable and affordable, the Econo Lodge at
Lexington is conveniently located at the Intersec-
tion of I-64 and US Highway 11, putting you close

to all the historical sights of this area.

Accommodations:

48 Attractive Guest Rooms with Scenic Mountain Views
ColorCab|e TV— Free ESPN and HBO

King Beds and/or Two Double Beds — Non—Smoking Available
Free Continental Breakfast; Free Local Phone Calls
Restaurants within walking distance

Attractions:

9 Natural Bridge — 16 miles

0 Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee University
0 VA Horse Center

0 Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

 

 

PAGE 6

ahitof Humor, Opinionand Reviews

BY KEVIN MClVlANI<MlN
TI-IE LooNEY BIN

ell, seniors, in a couple of weeks your school
days will ﬁnally be over. Then it’s off to the
workplace, where wacky and colorful
co-workers spend all day goofing off and playing
zany pranks on each other (as is my understanding
from television).
For those few unfortunate seniors who haven’t found
a job yet, don’t give up hope. There’s always the Marines.
I hear Parris Island is lovely this time of year. But, if boot
camp ain’t your cup of vodka, (this is W&L, no one drinks
tea) why not consider one of these non-traditional jobs:
shareoronner
If you enjoy being outside and working with your hands,
then this is the job for you. The hours are long, the work is
back-breaking, the pay is peanuts (literally) and there are
absolutely no beneﬁts. Also, you’ have to pay the land-
owner for the priviledge of famiing on his land.
Sharecropping — “because it ’s the only thing liberal
arts majors are qualiﬁedfor.”
roadie for Dhish
Uh, hey. We’re looking for some totally groovy ha ha ha
ha ha ha ha ha. Dude, get out of here with that, I’m trying to
type thisjob thingie. I’ll have a bowl with you later, man.
Promise. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. Oh, where was I. Right, we, like,
totally need some roadies to help us out with stuff. Duties
will include: 1) setting up mikes and stuff; 2) general bong
maintenance; 3) turning a hose on our audience when the
smell becomes too much (not too many of our fans bathe
regularly); 4) beating up reporters who insist on compar-
ing us to the Dead; 5) quick Doritos® runs when band

gets the munchies; 6) ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha; and,
7) making sure that nobody isn’t making bootlegs of
the show.

writer for “Baywatch”

Have you ever wondered what it would be like to be a
script writer for a popular television show? Can you read
and write at least a ﬁfth grade level? If you answered yes
to both questions, then you’re just the kind of person
we’re looking for. Send

last Wot
L AST M INUTE 3' OB PROSPECTS FOR SENIOR SLACKER5‘  

 

MAY 11, 1998 .,,. 1

little leniency on his retarded cousin Earl’s assault
charges. You’ll never have an idle moment, except of
course for the 23 hours a day you have nothing to do.
Who would have thought being a stereotype could be
this much fun?
New York City cab driver

‘*4 e-—"-e5- :3 2-“ Qleeéees tees tee etc” ee

é‘A;._-..=sGc..'c.‘.: iEI:4€.'3 3.-;_-.5. é..:.:_x _,_-..: cast.» C; 2.6;

:1J;_'n.:;* ‘£55, " I ‘ C. Q
 neg»; - ’.sJJ_  .

resume to Baywatch c/  9455:‘: at-., 34196;: 9 -Cruz.-._¢.
oS1l1coneProduct1ons, “DJ; QC; 9 $*‘§‘c LO) :J;_T‘€_A_: Cg  A.-.;:.;.:_-a E:  cit’
Hollywood, CA. . ‘ - . ‘ n I _ . . ‘ C-.__x_-._-. .1666 ..:s,~:_-..:. 5.-.36. ¢..

Secret Servioe 9 cu§—'>—~_- 5;; age‘. /\—->—=u«:s—- 5- 343.9.   ‘JG-C; o.-.5.-..

Are you good at
being shot at? If so,
why not take some bul-

¢._ 3.1.x C-5:..:.C_’

¢¢:.:, .:.:.at=._-._-. 3566 ;;.t_::. 
O L
“C

Arc.;L:_

. . .
43;

...;-

\=t=-eeeecic - "“-'»‘€-*3

lets with the best? Se-
cret Service duties in-
clude: 1) looking the other way when Bill is “entertaining”
the interns; 2) conﬁrming Bill’s stories to Hillary; 3) enforc-
ing the restraining order against Roger; 4) taking care of
Gore whenever he’s “feelin’ frisky;” 5) McDonald’s runs
when Bill gets the munchies; and, 6) occasional policy mak-
ing when Bill decides to “blow off work.”

The Secret Service -—— “it ’s safer than living in New
Jersey.”

fat southern sheriff

Join the brotherhood of the fat southern sheriffs and
help put the “K” in “korruption.” Who knows what’s next
in the fast-paced world of southern sherifftry? One day
you’re setting up speed traps to catch Yankees and the
next day you’re taking a bribe from the mayor to show a

ix  3.1;-
’ ’ sunerhero
Medium-sized metropolis needs
superhero to protect city from the schemes of evil geniuses
and/or monster attacks. Preferred skills include ability to
ﬂy, super strength, super speed, ability to project bursts of
energy from various body parts, witty banter and Microsoft
Excel and Power Point. Must supply own uniform, sidekick
and catchphrase. Pay is residuals from action ﬁgure sales.
MUTAN'IS NEED NOT APPLY.
senior citizen
Why get a job when you can just retire now? Requires
golf cart license, ability to go to bed at 8 p.m., and excellent
complaining skills. Must supply own out-of-style pants
and liver spots. To apply, fax resume to  fax? What the
hell is that? In my day we had the telegraph. Now there
was amachine. Click click clickity clack it would go, all day

Black Dog should be put to sleep

BY BRIANPRISOO

B-[MOVIE Ozrnc

y friends, I have done you a public service. I
know that some of you out there felt the de
sire, nay the need, to satisfy your curiosity to

Now, I like a good action ﬁlm as much as the next
guy. Sure, it’s nice to sit down and watch a trendy
dialogue ﬂick like Good Will Hunting or Swingers,
but deep down everyone loves to watch a good ass-
kicking ﬁlm where we can check our brain at the door.

Something with a lot of

go see what appears to be that
rompin-stompin movie Black 6 C
Dog. Well, I can save you ﬁve
dollars. Don’t even bother.
This movie screams
“townie” more than a monster
truck rally with an all-you-can-
eat shrimp bar. Patrick Swayze
stars as Jack Crews, an ex—con

I came to this ﬁlm expecting to see
some southern-fried whoop ass. Instead
I get Waiting to Exhale as performed
by the Truckers Repertory Theatre.

explosions, a lot ofmar-
tial arts and a lot of bla-
tant violence and cheesy
dialogue. Damn it, that’s
as American as apple
pie. But, this ﬁlm falls
short in that respect.
Most people claim

ex-truck driver who is tricked
into driving a load of assault
weapons from Atlanta to Newark or his wife and daughter
will be killed. Been there, done that, bought the twangy
record. The soundtrack is a Lexingtonian Christmas list.
The movie also stars Randy Travis, Meat Loaf and
Charles Dutton.

 

PATRICK SWAYZE embarrassing himself on screen in
the forgettable movie Black Dog. Pnoro COURTESY or UNI-
VERSAL PICTURES.

y

,9 that there is too much

violence and nudity in
movies. I don’t think this movie had nearly enough.
It comes off looking like a half-assed Dukes of
Hazzard. l’ve always been under the impression that
if you set out to make a tough guy action ﬁlm, it has to
be R-rated. You can’t get away with padded violence
and still claim to be a roughneck. v

Sure, Black Dog has some great vehicle stunts. It’s a
rare occasion where you see a car chase involving four
tractor trailers where a car-carrying truck falls off a cliff
and a truck cab smashes through a house on a ﬂatbed
truck. That’s right, a house on a ﬂatbed truck. There are
some spectacular crashes, but you get all the worthwhile
shots in the previews. The rest of the ﬁhn is full of this
family values garbage that’s not only boring, but really
inconducive to the plot.

I came to this ﬁlm expecting to see the Patrick Swayze
from Road House. I don’t know what he was thinking, but
he should stick to wearing dresses. I think this is his ﬁnal
movie, or rather should be. I’m sick of action movie stars
trying to be good family men. Be a daddy on your own time,
I want to see you kicking a little ass. I should mention that
the acting in this ﬁlm is not bad. Randy Travis is genuinely
enjoyable as Earl, the lovable truck driver come country
music warmabe.

The only worthwhile moments in this ﬁlm come from
the acting talents of Meat Loaf. That’s right, I said Meat
Loaf. I’ll take all the guff you want, but the man is a ﬁne

actor and picks appropriate roles for himself. He was
brilliant in Leap of]-“aith, and he is fantastic in this as a
bible—thumping gun smuggler with an affection for cou- ‘
pons. The most memorable moment ofthe ﬁlm is Meat '
Loaf chasing down Patrick Swayze and his family in a i

truck cab screaming biblical verses like, “Wait for the I 2

resurrection!”

I’m a simple man. All I ask is for some nudity and
blood. I don’t want sensitive male issues. I came to this
ﬁlm expecting to see some southern-fried whoop ass. j
Instead I get Waiting to Exhale as performed by the
Trucker’s Repertory Theatre. Do yourselfa favor. Wait i
until TNT picks this movie up and watch it late night. 

Do not waste your money.

 V following three circumstances:

long down at the old telegraph ofﬁce. That’s where me
and Vera Lynn made out for the ﬁrst time. It was just -
before I left to ﬁght in the war. Can’t recall which war, but
damned ifit wasn’t loud.

To: the__reader@phi.com
From: the_editor@backpage . org
Subject: broadcast mailer

“this message was distributed
by the broadcast. mailer at W&L**

The following is an announce-
ment to those organizations that
insist on sending bulk e-mails i
to the students via the broad-
cast mailer. CUT IT OUT! We're
sick and tired of opening up our
e-mail accounts only to find them
littered with messages about semi-

_ nars on corporate banking, ten-

 nis tournaments, poverty programs
and other things we couldn't give I )1‘
half a flaming 5*“ about. i

we'd like to propose that broad-
cast mail only be sent out in the

i 1) Classes are canceled due to
inclement weather and/or nuclear
‘holocaust.

2) The dead have risen and are
registering for classes, so hurry.
up before the spots are filled.

3) A monkey theater troupe is

,coming to town.

i Next time your office has an ‘
announcement about a lecture on
chartered accountancy, a concert

by the electric bagpipe and tim-
pani orchestra of Glasgow, the ‘I
NCAA division 5 1/2 Bocce Ball
tournament, or any event held in

I the GHQ, please keep your e-mail

v to yourselves. Unless it concerns 7
nuclear holocaust, the dead ris-
ing or monkey drama, we don’t
want to hear it.

1

 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

 isQoHege Night
ltd are Light

1

$2.00

