 

rt. 1 g ,_
e ':.."/5« /'9‘--’
  
/0*?

19.2.0

/-
.r

‘

X

/'5 ‘V \'

LI.I
.

_I
06

-

(13 It’s rhyme time: National

Poetry Month is in full swing.

CD W&L musicians are back
from the Greek Isles.

PAGE 3

Y

Washington and Lee University

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 20

 

4 SENIOR CAPTAINS Lorraine Taurassi, Melissa Foote and Whitney Parker hold the Old Dominion Athletic
‘ conference Championship trophy after their victory over Roanoke College. The Generals gave the Maroons a 9-5
spanking, bringing their ﬁnal season record to 13-2, with an ODAC record of 10-0. JASON ZACHER/SENIOR EDITOR

I

Professor Gunn, a Sigma Chi
alumnus, challenges W&L
students to stop hazing.

PAGE 4

he iliing-tum Iﬂlii

BY PoLLY DOIG

’Sophmore arrested for

obstructing justice

(D Wiping chalk off

*' tire to avoid parking
ticket results in
misdemeanor charge

" BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
T SENIOREDITOR
Washington and Lee sophomore
Paul Spencer was charged with ob-
.0 struction of justice Tuesday, after he
removed a chalk mark from his car tire.
Special Services Officer R.D.
Clark marks tires of cars parked in
two—hour and ten-minute parking
4 spaces in Lexington to ensure that
vehicles are not parked for an ex-
cessive amount oftime.
Arresting ofﬁcer F.W. Smith said
that, “Ofﬁcer Clark advised me ear-
“ lier on that day that he had prob-

lems lately with students wiping off A’

the chalk marks on their cars on
Henry Street. I put myselfin a posi-
4 tion where I could observe the stu-

  
   
  
    
  
 
 

. ,, at p j
 as , 
f9V¢r‘f6.fﬁ1e,°YJsn 
"ad°’%W16°a1'mi9t*ébfs9i9ry.. 
. ¢xt99I§‘9n99fﬂ1eﬂév6i§;d9¢:r I
 ui5.:%'1itt1e;ic‘reatedaiini¢Iue..i.

 ,dbot,tledit.”“ " “ 

   

, hp its, special beer,‘
sh saidﬂiatiotlifer  chap-
if I
befex',wine,orchocolatesfirIoeIebta-'

I ofW&L?s2$0th'anniversa1y. 
 Christine. Julian .

dents coming and going from their
cars. I didn’t witness any infractions,
so I went about my regular patrols.”

When Smith was driving down
Henry Street around noon, he ob-
served a young man wiping off the
chalk from his tire.

“He was looking kind of ner-
vously toward Jefferson Street as he
was doing it,” Smith said. “But by
the time he saw me, it was too late.”

Smith said that Spencer looked sur-
prised and tried to get away before he
arrested him and took him to jail.

“I thought, no way they’re going
to arrest me for this,” said Spencer.

Smith took him in anyway.

“I had a nice, sit—down conversation
with him, and he was very quiet on the
way to the jail,” Smith said. “When I
arrested him, his buddies were really
whooping it up, yelling ‘F.W.’s got an-
other one, F.W.’s got another one.”’

Obstruction ofjustice is a Class I
misdemeanor, meaning that if Spen-

cer is convicted at his May .26 trial,
he could receive a year in jail and/
or a $1200 fine. The term obstruc-
tion ofjustice is deﬁned as an ac-
tion by “any person by threat or
force, who attempts to intimidate or
impede a law officer.”

“There was no threat or force on
my part so I thought the charges
were a bit excessive,” said Spencer.

Spencer will plead not guilty and
intends to hire a lawyer.

“They know people do it all the
time so by catching me, they kind of
caught everybody,” said Spencer. “I
just think I took the brunt of it.”

Although Smith says the judge
could go either way in the case, he
admitted that the judge will most
likely ﬁnd Spencer guilty and give
him a ﬁne and possibly probation.

A student appealed as far as the
Virginia Appeals Court on a similar
charge about ﬁve years ago, and the
Court ruled in favor ofthe police.

Elrod waiting for reply
from President Clinton

BY TARAH GRANT
-j-——--— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

ne year has passed since Presi

dent John Elrod sent an invita-
tion to the White House asking Presi-
dent Bill Clinton to speak on respon-
sibility at Washington and Lee
University’s 1999 opening convo-
cation. Elrod hopes to receive a
reply soon.

“How better to call our 250th
birthday to the attention of the na-
tion than by involving the office of
the presidency,” Elrod said.

In April I997, the 250th Commis-
sion selected Clinton to be the key-
note speaker at the 1999 convocation
to be held on Sept. 8, and Elrod
promptly sent him an invitation.

A month later, they received a let-
ter from the White House conﬁrm-
ing that the invitation had been re-
ceived and put on ﬁle, according to
Director of the 250th Observance
Neil Penick. The Commission then

asked alumni and friends ofthe uni-
versity to contact the White House
on its behalf.

‘‘In some cases President Clinton
has told these people personally
that he would like to come but he
can’t commit yet,” said Penick.

The 250th Commission should
hear within the next couple of
months whether Clinton will be able
to attend, according to Penick.

IfClinton declines the invitation,
former Senator Bill Brock (’53) has
agreed to give the 1999 convocation
address.

The 250th Commission was
fonned by Elrod in the winter of 1997
to plan the University’s year-long
250th birthday celebration. Accord-
ing to its website, the Commission
is comprised of4l trustees, emeri-
tus trustees, members of the law
council and alumni board, friends,
parents and alumni of Washington
and Lee.

(D
I-
M
O
D.
U)

 

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY

WN‘-‘4'*!'=ToN & LEE UNIVERSITY

 

2 M .-  VA 24450
MAY 0 1 Q
Men’s lacrosse

suffers a crushing
116 loss to
Hampden—Sydney
in ODAC title game.

PAGE 4

Iiulk kale
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
APRIL 27, 1998

’ I I
SN u s Imprisoned
Retaliation for pubic hair removal leads
to abduction and assault charges

News EDITOR

hat began as a night of

partying ended up on a

lonely country road with
“innocent” college pranks clashing
with the law.

Three members ofthe Sigma Nu
fraternity were arrested and jailed on
charges of abduction and assault
and battery, following an incident
late Thursday night in which they
retaliated against two Sweet Briar
College women for shaving a
brother’s scrotum.

Sophomores Chad Austin Casto
and Ryan William Walker, and fresh-
man Jonathan Paul Barker were all
arrested and jailed on $5,000 bond
in Amherst County.

Additional charges of aggravated
sexual assault were filed Friday
against Sweet Briar students Lisa
Karen Williams, an exchange student
from England, and Jessica Saveall of
Maine, by an additional Sigma Nu
brother. He claims that one women
mounted and began to disrobe him
while the other attempted to shave
his pubic area.

He says the girls realized that he
wasn’t passed out, left the room and
then succeeded in shaving the scro-
tum ofanother brother.

“We are so shocked; it’s just a
countercharge,” said Williams. “The
fraternity is sticking together and
will do anything to make us drop the
charges and to protect themselves.”

Following these incidents,
Casto, Walker and Barker offered to
give the girls a ride back to Sweet
Briar. However, along the way the
brothers stopped near a desolate
cemetery in Amherst County. Ac-
cording to Saveall, the boys bound
the hands and feet of Saveall with
duct tape, lifted her skirt, and threat-
ened to shave her pubic area with
an electric razor.

Seeing this, Williams fled
through the countryside until she
found a barn where she hid for sev-
eral hours.

The threesome left Saveall, and
went in search of Williams. While
they were gone, Saveall managed to
free herself and call the police.
Saveall and local residents searched
for several hours for Williams, until

they found her in the barn ofa Sweet
Briar employee where she was hid-
ing.

Local authorities immediately
arrested and jailed Casto, Walker
and Barker. Barker posted bond on
Friday morning, while Walker and
Casto were released Saturday.

The women claim that the
charges against them are false and
deny shaving the pubic area of a
Sigma Nu brother. “We did not go
after him with a razor. We did not
touch his genitals,” Williams said.

They claim that the incident
was in retaliation for denying
sexual favors to the member of
Sigma Nu who pressed charges
against them.

“It’s just another case of a lot of
boys with a lot of money in a frater-
nity house, who can basically do
whatever they want,” said Williams.

There is no official comment
from Washington and Lee, accord-
ing to Director of Communications
Brian Shaw. “We have to let the
judicial procedures work, then
hand it over to the student judi-
ciary bodies.”

T

 
   
   
  

.,_Mai¥ylan’dL I3as‘t¢iﬁ?Tjsii’¢ré. ems

‘ f iﬂ1iinjuries.t0.Y-héir buttocks

9 hadto “undergo surgery to remove


‘av.

  
  the United states 

" K9PI"!Alph3 P5iP1°Sis'es~afe hosI>i-"I

. 1 woodenfpaddle:over,a‘...t
I ’ period of two.inonths'.,0nepledge
, , W x, S , _ University,BatonRouge,LA.SigmaAl-
, two i5fol1t:i11cl1b.by;2ne’-irich deep gan- ’
, - *— ’ f

“ :r'>'.~d

Keydet George Wade, Jr., said that the
>,‘.tipperclassrnen beat him and five other

9‘ rats with a belt and a coat hanger about
», three times aweek for a month, causing .

Vtwelts and bruises on their buttocks. (Or-
jlando Sentinel, March 23, 1998)
I  I August 1997 - Louisiana State

pha Epsilon pledge Benjamin Wynne,
20,. dies of alcohol poisoning with a

X i _ blood-alcohol level of .588. Three other
I SAE pledges are hospitalized for alco-
S hol poisoning, with one in critical con-
’ dition. SAE pledge, Gavin Fugate, I9,
' ' I later comes forward with allegations of
V ;, :,being sodomized. with a bar of soap,

 

 to  until he vomited blood

I   and forced to slide naked across a glass-
 strewn ﬂoor.» Brothers then allegedly

 his cuts in Tabasco sauce. (Den-

' -5  l5,l998) ‘
 A I February 1997 - University of

-‘Texas-Austin, Austin, TX. Parents of

I  T1995 hazing victim Gabe Higgins win

‘ awrongfui death lawsuit with a $1.09

inillion, settlement. His parents say
V x that the Texas Cowboys spirit group
Ylsubjected  toidrinking games and

;,,dexneainiri'g exercises before he

I Colorado River swim.,'I‘he group?‘ 
denies any hazing. (The Houston’
Chronicle, February 25, 1997)  ,-

I October 1995 - University’. .
of Colorado.-Boulder, Boulder,C0. I

H Phi Kappa Tau pledge Michael “Bo” 
Montoya nearly dies after being
bound neck-to-toe with an extension
cord, duct-taped to a chair, forced

, to drink more than apint of whiskey ,

V and denied important medication}
Montoya and his family success-
fully sue the fraternity for 88,500.
(DenverPosI, March 15, 1998)

I March 1994 - Southeast
Missouri State University, Cape
Girardeau, MO. “Kappa, Alpha Psi
pledge Michael Davis dies of head

‘injuries February 15, 1994. He also
-sustained internal bleeding, broken

‘ ribs, andalaceratedkidney and liver.
His parents sayiDavis was beaten
unconscious aﬁer attempting to run
away. He never regains conscious-
ness. His parents successfully sue
the ﬁaternity for $2.25 million. (St.
Louis Post-Dispatch, December
19, I996).

—~Compiled by Executive
Editor Hollister Hovey

PH0To Eorrok

IN PREPARATION FOR their trip to the Grand C(lIl)'()Il during the last three weeks ofSpring term, .s‘tu(leIIts in
the Geology of the South west class examine the strati g raph y of an outcrop in the Lexington area. CHRISTIE Pm1./Ps/

 

 

  

Zion
    rial

APRIL 27, 1998

Just when the we at the Phi thought things might
get boring around old Lex, we’re faced with news
of poorly shaven scrotums, abductions and an ob-
struction of j ustice with chalk. It’s not even Alumni
Weekend yet. What a welcome to the new staﬁl
Keep up the good work! We can’t wait to see what
you cook up for us next week.

It’s good to have such great news to ease us into
our new reign over the paper with the 100 year his-
tory and a name no one understands. It’s great to be
in control. We thought you’d like to know who ex-
actly it is that ﬁlters the ﬂow of infonnation around here.
TARAH GRANT: The smallest member of the staff,
but wields great power. She’s the president of the
Society of Professional Journalists and the Landon
Lane Memorial Scholar, thejoumalism department’s
highest academic honor.

HoLLIsTER HovEv: Yes, she used to take pictures
and draw the damned infamous Colonnade Club,
but now she shares the top position. So, if you still
have leﬁover misplaced angst about the cartoon, go
ahead and try to complain. Write a letter to the edi-
tor. It’ll have to get past her first. She wrote for the
Kansas City Star for a couple years, and was the
Kansas High School Journalist of the Year.

JoHN STEWART: He’s one of the news guys. Al-
ways late. Always uncombed. He’s got a little
goatee. He’s one of the rare frat boys on staff, so he
adds a completely pro-establishment quotient to the
editorial scheme.

PoLLv Dotc: She’s the other news guy who trans-
ferred here from New York to take the Southemjour-
nalistic world by storm. She’s the only staff mem-
ber with a nose ring.

FRANCES GROBERG: Star LAX player and co-sports
editor. She’s dating the former executive editor, but
that’s unrelated to her rise to fame.

BRENDAN HARRINGTON: Famous sports commenta-
tor for the juggernaut we call WLUR. He’s the Matt
Pinﬁeld of sports knowledge. Try “taking it to the
matt” with him.

ERICA PRossER: Her mother has a sugar glider (don’t
ask, just read her features section next week). She’s
the Kappa Alpha magazine journalism intern.
GINGER PHILLIPS: Freshman features phenom.
STEPHEN PEscE: We wrangled him into doing the
editorial section, then he put himself in TALKback
— a major faux pas, but we’ll forgive him.

KEVIN MCMANEMIN: Our great columnist has taken
over the reigns of the Last Word.

CHRISTIE PHILLIPS: She’s the new photo girl with
major experience under her belt. She took photos
for the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel in high school.
TOM WADLOWZ Dating Tarah. Computer guru/genius.
Put up Phi On-line last year and will continue to make it
a truly interactive experience for you.

THE MONEY PEoPLE: Jill Jamieson rules in this little

faction of C-school types that includes Brian Rogers I

and Steven Klotz. Unlike the rest of us, these guys
actually make money (at the Phi and will in life, too).

@112 iliing-tum ilﬂlti

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
Copy Editor Sarah Meldrum
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&Iife Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Opinion & Editorial Editor Stephen Pesce
Sports Editor Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Last Word Editor Kevin MeManemin
Photo Editor Christie Phillips
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco
Business Manager Jill J amieson
Circulation Manager Brian Rogers
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “My Views”
do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540)462-4060

Fax: (540)462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

http://wlu.ea'u/~phi

Rumble at
registration

What do you get when you take a few hundred PE-
desperate students, wake them before dawn, sit them in
the gym and let them stew for a few hours?

At Washington and Lee, you almost get a riot.

 
  

 2 ed Brick Row
 David Balsley ’99

Such was the situation on Monday morning in the
Warner Center. By 7:30, so many people had come to
sign up for PE classes that the line looped from Doremus
Gym down the hall and back again to the gym. When
sign-up began, the people at the end of the line rushed to
join the people at the front of the line. Students from the
middle of the line, who now found themselves at the end,
were left to wonder just what the hell the latecomers
thought they were doing.

PE registration should match registration for other
courses: it should be divided by class, with upperclass-
men signing up before underclassmen. This would cut
back on the number of people waiting in line for PEs. It
would also make it easier for seniors to get the PEs they
need to graduate. Hopefully, it would also prevent scenes
like the one that occurred last Monday.

Although splitting registration this way would help
upperclassmen, it would hurt freshmen and sophomores,
preventing some of them from racking up gym credits in
their first few years at W&L. This could mean that stu-
dents would have to take more PEs during their junior
and senior years, which may not be what we want. This
could be the main disadvantage of registering for PEs by
class.

The need to offer gym classes to graduating seniors,
however, justiﬁes disadvantaging underclassmen. Also,
splitting PE registration by class would not prevent all
freshmen and sophomores from taking gym courses.
Some students would ﬁnish their PE requirements later
than others, but in the end, everyone would have the op-
portunity to take one last gym course if they needed to.

PE registration could be altered so that upperclassmen
would sign up in the morning and underclassmen in the
afternoon. It would be better, however, if juniors and
seniors could register on Monday and everyone else on
Tuesday. This would allow everyone more ﬂexibility in
registering for PEs. It would also benefit upperclassmen
with Monday morning classes or underclassmen who have
class in the afternoon. I

A second option for alleviating PE lines would be to
use gym registration as a test case for online registration.
If the Registrar’s Office would like to switch to online
registration, it could first require students to sign up for
PE courses by computer, using a scaled-down version of
the system intended for all course registration. This would
help shake bugs out of the system and test its usefulness,
as well as give students a chance to sleep in.

Given what happened last Monday, do we need marked
queues to make sure that students stay in line at PE regis-
tration? I don’t think so. The people who almost jumped
the line last week eventually returned to the end. So long
as students remember that the Honor System applies ev-
erywhere, including PE registration, we should be alright.

  

uote of the Week:

1 did :{3t go after him with a
razor; I did not touch his
genitals.

— Lisa Karen Williams
explaining her weekend at Sigma Nu , 7

Write a letter to 771eRz'ng-tum H612

Turn in letters to the Phi Of-
ﬁce by 5 p.m. on Friday for pub-
lishing in the next week’s edition.
Or join the Phi staff. Writers,
photographers, cartoonists and
all types of special helpers are
always needed.

....-a

l I 
   U D

by Jean Rowan

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

For Fraternity Gentlemen:
A Decent Proposal

To all members of the W&L fraternity system:

Let me get this straight, enduring hardships brings the
sufferers closer together and actually endears them to their
antagonists. Let us accept this porposition and ask, what’s
all the fuss about? The KAs should become even closer
with one another and, when this ordeal is over, they will
be closer to the admnistration.

What? This reasoning is ﬂawed? So too is the propo-
sition then, so we cannot rely on reason to justify hazing.
Can we rely on the law? What about God or morality?
Hmmm...0kay, honor? Considering all fraternities have
signed promises not to haze and yet we do, this seems
doubtful. Oh! Tradition, that’s it.

Lee always promoted tradition. Yet, Lee’s tradition
was honor and discipline. Discipline is good reason for
pledge activities, but activities with discipline also give
one a sense of dignity. Diapers, laxatives, and dignity.
Okay, so we’ve even failed that test. The only reason left
to haze is to justify why we suffered through these things.
To change would be to admit we were wrong to endure it.
This is a good reason, but it is no excuse when every other
value we hold dear screams against hazing.

Wait! What about unity, that is surely important. True,
suffering does give people a strong common bond. Hos-
tage survivors will always have that in common and be
able to share and help each other cope with their feelings.
Do we really have to survive horrible experiences to be
each other’s friends? Well, no there are other ways.

Come on gentlemen, what are our intentions? We moan
about losing autonomy, but autonomy only works when it
is exercised. When is the last time (outside of the honor
code) that students truly punished other students? The
IFC slaps people on the wrists, but in the end we all treat
each other gently in the hope that when (not it) our par-
ticular fraternity gets caught, everyone else will take pity.
If we want to complain about student power, let’s at least
use it so we can point and say, “We are responsible.” In-
stead we kick at the ground and pout like boys when we
are caught.

The real victims from those last few weeks of Winter
Term truly are the KA pledges. They deserve to have a
fraternity and I am pleased that it sounds like the admin-
istration will let them come back in 1999. However, to
imply that the fraternity should not be punished is outra-
geous.

We know when we break the rules; we all do it in some
form. We know the consequences and accept the risks.
When men get caught, they admit their guilt and take
their punishment, bearing it with quiet dignity.

I have never been more proud of this school’s sense of
honor than when I read everyone involved came forward
of his own accord. Let us not ruin the only digniﬁed mo-
ment in this whole mess by circling the wagons and cry-
ing foul; we all know better.

We accuse Elrod of doing something wrong, for pro-
tecting the welfare of students and for guarding the Uni-
versity against liability (and for enforcing hazing rules
we students made). We accuse Elrod for doing his job.
We pat ourselves on the back because we don’t want to do
our jobs. This attitude will not ensure the survival of a
strong Greek system on this campus, but will likely bring
about the opposite.

Gentlemen, when do we become men?

Gregory Scot Kees
Class of 1998

A Challenge to W&L Students
Why Hazing is a Bad Thing

1. Hazing is childish.

2. Hazing by fraternity members is hypocritical. It is
totally irreconcilable with the declared high ideals of fra-
temities.

3. Hazing works in opposition to the proper mission of
the University.

4. Hazing is a criminal act under the laws of the Com-
monwealth of Virginia, and those who commit it are sub-
ject to criminal penalties.

5. Arguments advanced in attempts to justiﬁy hazing
are specious at best and silly at worst. It is an inferior
way to seek bonding in a group of young people.

6. Hazing is a cheap shot at younger students, taking
advantage of their naivete and their desire to prove them-
selves and to be accepted by the group, not realizing that
they can decline from doing this.

7. Hazing is ungrateful in a University that has devoted
tremendous financial resources and much human effort
to enhancing the fraternity experience.

8. Hazing is dreadful public relations in a world un-
sympathetic to fraternities to begin with. Among other
things, it plays into the hands of those who would take
away the tax exemptions now enjoyed by fraternities.
9. Hazing undemrines the credibility of the friends of
the fraternity system, those of us who see large potential
in the system for contributing to constructive develop-
ment of young people are frustrated repeatedly in its
defense, and disappointed ourselves, by a system that
approaches its potential so seldom.

10. Hazing in any particular fraternity at W&L at this
time makes its president to be either an ineffective leader
or an insincere and unreliable person, since all the frater-
nity presidents assured that it would not happen this year.

But the most important faults:

1 1. Hazing puts strain on the Honor System. It appears
very likely that a number of falsehoods have been ut-
tered by a number of different people, in denying it.

12. Hazing is extremely risky, in several regards:

a. It risks the health, and even the lives, of those
subjected to it.

b. It risks criminal penalties for those who com-
mit it. In recent years, every death in the United States
that resulted from hazing, and many serious injuries,
has led to conviction and imprisonment.

c. It risks ﬁnancial ruin for both the local and
the national fraternity, for individuals, and perhaps for
their parents.

13. Worst of all, it is demeaning to those upon whom it
is committed and destructive to their self-conﬁdence and
sense of self worth.

In short, hazing is a hateful practice.

It is a blot on the University.

It is a much larger blot on the fraternities that tolerate it.
It is a still larger blot on the individuals who commit it.
It is a blot of a different sort on those who submit to it.

For these reasons, I challenge every W&L student to
face this issue with intellectual honesty, to consider the
real and potential harms of hazing, as well as its enor-
mous risks, and then to live up to your own highest ideals.

John M. Gunn
Lewis Whitaker Adams Professor Emeritus of Economics
Class of 1945, Member of Sigma Chi Fraternity

What was the most interesting thing you did over Spring Break?

E” ‘K, .  ‘V’
TALKo Ci:

 

“I went bungee jumping.”

—Shana Levine ’Ol

“I went to Greece with the
wind ensemble.”

—Lauren LaFauci ’0l

 

“I took my friends for a snipe
hunt for animals that don’t exist.”

~Nathan Urquhart ’0l

as the Elrods.”

“I got to ride on the same plane

—-Stephen Pesce ’0l

*4

 

is

 

APRIL 27, 1998

April goes from bad to verse

<1) It’s National Poetry Month, and W&L has both rhyme AND reason

BY ERICA PRossER

Question: If roses are red, what color are violets?

All right, so that question is a little too easy. This might be
a bit harder: Do you know why the caged bird sings? Or what
happens to a dream deferred? Or what force through the green

fuse drives the ﬂower?

Stumped yet? Then maybe you should take advantage of

National Poetry Month.

National Poetry Month, held in April of each year, was
established in 1995 by a coalition ofAmerican poets, organiza-
tions, publishers, Iibraries and educators, including the Ameri-

can Poetry & Literacy Project and
the Academy of American Poets.
The purpose: to celebrate poetry
and its place in American culture.

Though the event might be young
by some standards, Washington and
Lee University has celebrated it since
its inception. In fact, we’re celebrat-
ing it right now.

R.T. Smith, editor of Shenandoah
literary magazine, is the coordinator of
all W&L Poetry Month events. He
brings speakers to campus, organizes
displays in the library and prints free
poetry for the W&L community.

“[National Poetry Month] is a
great idea,” he said. “We start prepar-
ing for it about two months in ad-
Vance.”

Perhaps you noticed a television
set up in the lobby of Leybum library
earlier this month; the tape playing
was made last year when local poets
read their work aloud to celebrate Na-
tional Poetry Month.

This year, Smith booked the
Fairfax Lounge on April 22 for another
reading, this one by two visiting po-
ets. The lounge was a good choice of
location, he said.

“Some people think that a poetry
reading has to be in an auditorium,” he
said. “This was a quiet and intimate
setting. We had about 40 people there,

so the room was full, but it was comfortable.”

The featured readers were Elizabeth Seydel Morgan and
Reetika Vazirani. Morgan was a faculty member at W&L about
10 years ago, and Vazirani will be the poet-in-residence at Sweet
Briar College for the next academic year. Smith called the event a
success, though very few students appeared in the audience.

Okay, so you might have missed the reading. Now what?
Well, with ﬁnancial help from the library, Smith was able to print
about 200 copies of a poem by Chinese poet Li P0.

The poem is called “The Fisherman,” and it appeared on bul-
letin boards all over campus in early April. Smith enlisted the help
of two Chinese friends to translate the poem and create the callig-

Br FEATURES EDITOR

raphy in the background. If you can ﬁnd a copy, you can keep it.
Smith printed the poems as a gift to the W&L campus.

If you’d like something else poetic to look at, visit the display
cases in Leybum. The cases contain books by Virginia poets and

posters printed with poems by campus bards.

books for anyone interested.

Keen even has a grant to write

R.T. SMITH, editor of Shenandoah, organizes all the
Poetry Month events at W& L. His most recent book of
poetry is Trespasser, and he is currently working on a
series of Civil War poems. HOLLISTER HOVEY/EXECUTIVE
EDITOR

suggestions.

tion might:

said.

[Vazirani] will be there,” he said.
In thinking of ways to get students more
involved with the activities, he had a couple of

, » “Next year, I’d like to do something a little
more pop,” he said. “Maybe a performance poet "
and a more ‘literary’ poet side by side.”

If that doesn’t grab you, his other sugges-

“I think it would be a good idea to require
that students attend some of these readings,” he

The Lexington Public Library also has a display of poetry and

You say you don’t know any local poets? Au contraire. Most of
the W&L English Department faculty members are poets; Dr. Suzanne

poetry. She did not get too involved
with the events this year, but she has
been involved in the past.

“National Poetry Month is a nice
idea,” she said. “It doesn’t have an
impact on my relationship to poetry,
but that’s because I work with poetry
all the time.”

Poetry is now celebrated across
America every April, but this year’s
national celebration is especially
unique: Andrew Carroll, Executive Di-
rector of the American Poetry & Lit-
eracy Project, has been driving a truck
from New York to San Francisco, dis-
tributing 100,000 free poetry books to
the people he meets. Like a modem-
day Johnny Appleseed, he’s stopping
in small towns and large cities alike,
spreading verse to the masses.

A poetry reading was also held at
the White House last weekend, fea-
turing Poet Laureate Robert Pinsky
and former Poet Laureates Rita Dove
and Robert Hass. Overall, National
Poetry Month is a national big deal
that spreads the good of verse to ev-
eryone it can.

So April is almost over, and
you’ve missed most of the fun?
Don’t despair; Smith is already pon-
dering ideas for next year’s celebra-
tion.

“We might do ajoint thing with
Sweet Briar next year, since

FOR the

    
  

N¢““'

EDUCATIO

“heﬂiiietkeanent 

Te

cuties: .
. - ~\Av’ " ’
no n.;x;:k_ ,,l'§“itnr\'t

  
 

' A AND “";NﬁU\

N aiiiz RESEARCH COMMUNITY-

  

 

 

- ville alli"ﬂ’""“i.mm

,A1“l€§Y;£€%.ETlREN\ENT . . . .
PL , feipttstetl»

   PAINKILLER. 

   



W&life

PAGE 3

Blackwa ter 8 jbgackfi res

BYHENRYGOLA

H173rAn=WRntR ,

Rating: ﬁsh’ of5 I I I‘ I 

[Rating system: 0= terrible; l= poor; 2 =__fair; 3 =- good‘ 4 I excellent; 5 = classic]

 

Last year during the Super Bowl in New (Orleans, llucked out and got a front row seat to
see the well—known blind Blues guitarist Brian  raw intensity and passion for his
music gave the crowd that was jammed into the small, sweaty club a great experience. Robert
Bradley, a veteran blind singer-songwriter out of Detroit, evokes some of the same passion on
his Blackwater Surprise album. I 1 , V  I  ‘ i  1 I I V I I.

“Most of the time, it was something I’d just write on the spot as it came into my head,”
said Bradley of his music. “Basically, a ‘ i‘
I’m a singer. I wasn’t on the street
because I was hungry, or homeless.
I was there because I’m a player. _I I
wanted to sing.” ,

The band is made up of Michael
Nehra (guitar), his brother Andrew
(bass), drummer Jeff F owlkes and
keyboardist ‘Tim Diaz. The group
supports their sound and their pas-
sionate leader. I

“This is just something that’s so V
obvious, so natural and effortless,”
said Andrew. “Robert’s vision and
ours wasaperfect blend. We spent
hours having fun jamming until we
found our sound.” _ e

That sound has quite‘ a follow-
ing, as well; the group has  with I
The Dave Matthews Band, BigHead_ ' ,2 i I ; I V . I
Todd and the Monsters, Cowboy‘Mouth, and other popu groups. Parts of this album live
up to the «band’s apparent reputation:  group ' acks up.;B d1ey’s raspy vocals with upbeat
funk on the first track, “Bellybone,”  A movothirh , , on “Turn.” Despite the versa-
tility ofthe group, though,/the bandlineinbers tnt  newer songs. . They stick to
average, stale riffs and beats that smell of adult co emporary radio. “The song “Shake It Off,”
which sticks out as the only ’70—ish guitar song, sounds] e adirect rip, of Led Zeppelin.

The strength of the album, however, is Bradleyfsexperience, which he channels through
his lyrics and emotional voice.‘ (Tackling subjects in lit‘ in CaIifornia‘coffee houses (“Cali-
fornia”) to political problems (“Governor”) to roman ic  1unphs‘(‘§‘l5‘or the Night”), Bradley’s

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
     
  
 
 

, wails sound sincere. Brian McCoIlum of the Detroit Free Press noticed Bradley’s vitality and

spontaneityin concert, and he sawpit as unique: , _
“Bradley’s irnprov explodes into a,su‘cjak pf static,,
set ends with a ham, and thekids go nuts  kn ' 
special.” O; T’ ’  ..
The outcome for this album: The spirit is williri bu

     
   
 

eato,screams,” he wrote. “The
ve seen, something really, really

3   -

 

,   -.us:u«isi«\mw£mu  “ ‘ ,
- . - -. .

_ .

"BY‘GINGERPHlLI.H’S' . .. ~., ..
- V V V 4 ’ HFFFAHRFS EDITOR

For many students, Spring Break consisted of sleeping for hours on end and
tanning in the backyard, but for some Washington and Lee University musicians it
was quite a different story. Members of the University Orchestra, Wind Ensemble
and Jazz Band packed up their violins, cellos and trumpets for a trip to Greece.
Fifty-eight students and three professors spent eight days surrounded by ancient
ruins and the timeless beauty of Greece.

“The trip was amazing,” junior Jason Hahn, a baritone sax player, said. “It was
a wonderful opportunity to perform and visit a beautiful country.”

The students stayed in the capital city of Athens for the majorityof the trip.
There they dazzled guests at the Athens Hilton Hotel with two concerts. The
group also had a large audience at another concert in Nafplion, a small town on the
Greek coast.

“The people of the town were so excited that we came,” freshman Lauren
LaFauci said.

While the main purpose of the trip was to share W&L’s musical talent with
another part of the world, students were also able to see many wonderful cities and
sights. Students toured the Acropolis, the city of Mycenae and the National
Archeological Museum.

“It was interesting to ﬁnally connect ancient Greek history in our minds,” said
LaFauci. “Playing music was part of the trip, but actually experiencing the country
itself was something that we would maybe never get to do without this trip.”

The group also went on a cruise to the Aegean islands of Aegina, Poros and
Hydra. Some students were stuck on Aegina for several extra hours when they
missed the ferryboat back to the mainland. They took advantage of the time to explore
the island on motorbikes. Renting the bikes proved to be another problem because
the students did not have their passports, which were required for the rentals. Fortu-
nately, the generous employee accepted their driver’s licenses instead.

Although the students did not stay with host families, freshman percussionist
Kate Muter said, “Even in a hotel we were able to interact with the people and get
a lot of cuIture.’’ ,

Muter summed up the experience when she said, “I would go again in a minute.”

or fast relieffrom the nagging ache oi‘ taxes. we
Frecommend TIA.-\-CREF SRr\s. SR.-\s are tax-
delerred annuities that can help you build additional
assets-money that can make the dillerence between
living and living --'c// in retirement.

Contributions to SRr\s are con\'enientl_\' deducted
from your sal;rr_\‘ on a pretax basis. The result? .'~iore
money il"l\'€SIL‘(I. Fewer taxes now. And since im-estrnc-nt
earnings are nix (lair-rrcrl until you r'ecei\'e them its
income, the lI1l\l’lL'_\'_\'0ll don} svml to \\';r>lringrmi run

\\'OI'I( EVEN I'1¢'|I'(I€‘I' L0!‘ .\’()U.

til

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.

 

'l'I.\.\«CI(l".l-' Iui|nulu.il .i-ril Ill>III||lIlI|\.lI Sci \Il\\tlI~|lllI|lIt‘~ L'l(|-.l- IV

\\/hat else do SR.'\s oIler'.’ A full range oi‘ investment
choices. a helpful loan feature. and the linancizil expertise
oliTI:\.>\-CRHF. the world's largest retirement system."

Now .VIore \\'a_ys to iVIeet Your Goals

To(Iu_\' TI.'\i‘\.-CRISI" can help you meet even more
ol'_'.'our linuncial objectives. with IR.-\s. mutual funds.
ziml more. \\'e'Il helpyou select the solutions that suit
_\'our neerls. Visit _\'our l)(-_’nt’l-ll.\‘ olliru or call us at
I 800 842-2776 to It'&lI'll inure

Do it l0LIll‘\’--II C0llI(I|'I’I hurt.

Visit us on the Internet at www.ti.1a-cref.org

II.l~\’lI mi |\\\‘I\ lI|Ill\‘l llI.llI.|£.'\'IIIK'I’1l
i-- .iuil |Illllt'~Ix in llw 'l’|.\.\ R\'.ll li~r.iu» \\\lIlII\l I-"iii IIIIII l' iiiiiiplir. llllkll llhlllllll.
lII\Ill1lI|I'.' \I|.Il‘E\‘\.llllll'\'|\'l|>\'\\.IlI ixoo.\'4'_'.'_".... .\i_ ).\Il‘I. I... Il\r |tHr\'i|_'\|l|~0\ R.-...l lI\I'Ill ..ii-.-iiillr l)\IlrI\' \r\\l IrI\r<~I ...- ...i,l IIllIlI\’\

in default.

Recruiter.

 

VV&L_ musicians   go GR€€K

GIVE US TIME TO REPAY
YOUR LOAN.

After just three years in
the Army, your college loan
could be a thing of the past.

Under the Army’s Loan
Repayment program, each
year you serve on active duty
reduces your indebtedness by
one-third or $1,500, whichever
amount is greater, up to a
$65,000 limit.

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans
and certain other federally insured loans which are not

And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army
will give you. Get the whole story from your Army

703 886-2651

 ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Surf and Turf in Lex

( :rab your running shoes, a bike
and a canoe and participate in

the 23rd Annual Lexington Road and
River Relay on Saturday, May 2. The
relay will begin at 10 a.m. with a 3.5
mile run, followed by a 9.1 mile bike
ride, a 2.4 mile canoe/kayak course and
an additional l.l mile run.

Pre-registration forms for indi-
viduals or teams of up to ﬁve mem-
bers can be picked up at City Hall or
the Chamber ofCommerce. The costs
are $60 per team or $20 per individual.
Serious competitors can show offtheir
skills, and fraternities and sororities
can show their spirit orjust have fun
outdoors. For more information, call
Jon Ellestad at 463-7 I 33.

CORRECTION

Two actors were omitted from the
March 23rd article on the Festi-
val of One-Acts. Anne Hazlett
starred in “Impromptu,” and
Scott McKelvey appeared in
“Gladiator.” The Phi apologizes
for the omission.

 

 

PAGE 4

sports

APRIL 27, 1998

335%" °"* Women’s lacrosse wins ODAC

of ODAC’s;
splits Guilford

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

Go-Srroms Barron

Two weeks ago the Generals sat atop the ODAC
standings with an 8-2 record and looked to be well on
their way to qualifying for the ODAC tournament. Two
weeks and ﬁve losses later the Generals are on the out-
side looking in.

The Generals’ tournament hopes died yesterday af-
ternoon when Bridgewater swept a double-header from
Emory & Henry and knocked the Generals out of the
playoff picture, claiming the fourth seed in next
weekend’s four-team double elimination tournament in
Lynchburg.

Going into Saturday afternoon the Generals’ playoff
situation was more complicated than an advanced math
class. Ifthe Generals would have won both games in
their double-header at Guilford on Saturday they would
have qualified for the tournament regardless of
yesterday’s Bridgewater victories.

But the Generals could only manage to win one of
the games against Guilford as they won the ﬁrst game

18-6 and lost the second game 6-3. They had to wait
and watch to ﬁnd out ifthey would qualify for the tour-
nament.

The Generals kept their playoff hopes alive after they
won the first game against the Quakers (1 1-5 ODAC,
19-20 overall) 18-6 on Saturday afternoon as the Gener-
als scored a season 18 runs on 14 hits.

Sophomore Christian Batcheller hit his eighth and
ninth home runs ofthe season, including a grand slam
to tie his own single season record. Sophomores
Schulyer Marshall and David Hanson also went yard
while freshman Josh Glober pitched a complete game
and picked up the victory.

In the second game, the Generalsjumped out to a 3-
1 lead in the top of the fourth and it looked like they
might not have to worry about the Bridgewater games
on Sunday. Rusell Wrenn had an RBI single in that
inning and Mike Elder had a two-run triple. But the
Quakers got one back in the bottom of the fourth and
broke the game open in the ﬁfth on a three run homer
by Chris Butcher and went on to the 6-3 win.

The Generals lost two games earlier in the week as
they lost 9-2 at Lynchburg on Monday and 11-9 at
Hampden-Sydney on Wednesday. The Generals ﬁnish
the year 9-7 in the ODAC and 12-13 overall.

Tennis teams

victorious in ODA C

Pretila. All three doubles teams were
victorious over their opponents.
The women’s tennis team also

BY FRANCES GROEERG
———————-——— CO-SPORTS Barron

Once again, the men’s and

SOPHOMORE KATHERINE Riddle blows by her defender in the women's lacrosse ODAC

Championship against Roanoke College on Sunday. The Generals defeated the defending

champion Maroons by a score of 9-5.

 ;Gﬂ_ Sm, Em,

It was a win four years in the mak-
ing.

Since their last Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship
in 1993, the Generals have been con-
tinually frustrated by Roanoke Col-
lege. Washington and Lee (13-2, 10-
0 ODAC) exacted their revenge over
the third-seeded Maroons on Sun-
day 9-5.

“l’m speechless,” senior Whitney
Parker said after the game, “This is
what l’ve worked for all these
years.”

The Generals opened the scor-
ing only 40 seconds into the game
en route to a 2-0 lead. Roanoke (10-
6, 7-3 ODAC) evened the score a
few minutes later, but freshman Liz
Borges scored her three goals in the
next 17im’inutes to open a 6-2 lead.

“The team played so well to-
gether today,” coach Jan Hathorn
said. “It would be hard to single any
individual player out.”

The win snapped Roanoke’s
string of four consecutive ODAC
championships, including last
year’s 7-6 win over W&L.

“We had to get revenge because
we lost to them last year, twice. It’s
about. time we beat them,” said
sophomore Katherine Riddle.

Parker and senior Lorraine
Taurassi each scored two goals for
the Generals, senior Mary Jo
Mahoney and Riddle added one a
piece.

Roanoke senior Ali Oglesby, the
second-leading scorer in the ODAC,
did not score, due to a smothering
Generals’ defense and several big
saves by sophomore goalkeeper
Ginny Jernigan. Oglesby scored ﬁve
times in the first meeting this sea-
son.

Jernigan made 18 saves, in addi-
tion to the 15 she made in the semi-
ﬁnal game Saturday. ' ' ‘

“She realy played huge today,”
Hathorn said.

The Generals dominated play for
the ﬁrst 50 minutes of the game,
opening a 9-3 lead. Roanoke scored
two quick goals near the nine-
minute mark, but it was too little, too
late. The vocal Roanoke fans con-
tinually berated the officiating
throughout the tournament, blaming
the ofﬁcials for Roanoke’s misfor-
tunes during the title game.

It was the second time this sea-
son W&L has topped Roanoke, the.
ﬁrst coming at the end of March 10-
9. The first win helped boost the
Generals’ conﬁdence.

“In past years we’ve played
scared,” Parker said. “This year we
were excited and conﬁdent.”

“When a team has their way with
you for so long, you become a little
intimidated,” Hathorn said. “The
fact was, we weren’t intimidated to-
day, it wasn’t even a thought.”

W&L will now wait for March 3,
when the NCAA tournament pair-
ings will be announced. According
to Athletic Director Mike Walsh,
W&L is “on the bubble.” Three
teams will advance from the southern
region, and W&L is one of four teams
with a shot. Johns Hopkins is almost
assured of moving on. Before their
two wins this weekend, the Generals
were ranked eleventh in the nation,
dropping four spots after a late-sea-
son loss to St. Mary’s (Md.).

Hathorn sits on the tournament
committee and could not comment
on W&L’s odds.

The Generals ﬁnish the season
with the best regular-season record
in ODAC history, and the lowest
goals-per-game average in the
league this season at 7.2.

“I’m just enjoying this victory,”
Parker said, “I’m not worried about
the NCAA’s right now.”

 

Men’s lax loses heartbreaker 11-6

BY BRDJDAN HARRINGION
:———— cospoms FDrroR

The Hampden-Sydney Tigers
used a lethal combination of preci-
sion passing and overpowering de-
fense to defeat Washington and

women’s tennis teams proved their
dominance in the ODAC conference
by wrapping up title victories this
weekend.

The men, playing at Guilford Col-
lege, racked up 71 points, beating
their closest opponent, Hampden-
Sydney by 16 points, recording 55
points.

Wins were posted by freshman
Chris I-laun, junior Scott Babka, se-
nior Glenn Miller, freshman Kelly
Radford, andjunior David Lehman.
A loss was recorded byjunior Dale

defeated their opponents by an ex-
tremely wide margin. The Generals
earned 72 points. Second place
Hollins earned a meager 34.5 points.

Senior Ericka Shapard, sopho-
more Brook Hartzell, senior Berry
Blankinship, sophomore Erin
Eggers, freshman Christina
Campbell, and freshman Anne
Castello all recorded victories. All
three women’s doubles also won.

Next for the women’s team is the
NCAA tournament, which will be
held at W&L from May 5-11.

Track finishes
3rd, 4th in ODACs

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

Co—SPoRrs EDrroR

The men’s and women’s track teams took third and fourth respectively at
the ODAC track championships on Saturday afternoon in Bridgewater.

The men ﬁnished with 52 points behind ﬁrst place Lynchburg (134) and
second place Bridgewater (61), ahead of fourth place Roanoke (17) and ﬁfth
place Eastern Mennonite (5). Omar Moneim led the way for the men, winning
the shot put (45 1/4 ft.), taking second in the discus, and fourth in thejavelin.
Senior Will Olson won the 1500 in 4:04.88 and ﬁnished third in the 5,000 while
teammate Jason Callen ﬁnished second in the 5,000 and ﬁﬁh in the 1,500.

The women ﬁnished ahead of ﬁfth place Eastern Mennonite (17) and be-
hind ﬁrst place Bridgewater (76), second place Roanoke (65), and third place
Lynchburg (59). Natasha Dorofeeva ﬁnished ﬁrst in the 800 and set a school
and meet record with a time of 2: 1 8. I 6. Meredith Mlynar won the javelin throw
(98 ft.-10 in.) and the 4x 1 O0 relay team made up of Dorofeeva, Kathleen Moroney,
Laurin McKeever, and lsaris Bonilla ﬁnished ﬁrst in a time of 4:1 1.73, which

was just off a school record.

Leel 1-6 on Saturday afternoon at
Wilson Field. The win gave the Ti-
gers their third Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championship
while also putting them in excellent
position to grab one ofthe top four
seeds in the NCAA tournament.

The Generals faced two unlucky
breaks in the first half that didn’t
help their cause. Senior captain Robb
Greenﬁeld was knocked out of the
game with a concussion just 19 sec-
onds into the game and a question-
able three minute stick penalty at
the beginning of the second quar-
ter cost the Generals two goals. But
despite the untimely events, the Ti-
gers dominated from start to finish.

“Both of those events played
key roles in the game,” said se-
nior captain Paul Stanley, who
scored two goals on Saturday.
“Things would probably have
gone different ifthose two things
didn’t happen, but it’s still no ex-
cuse. The bottom line is that we
didn’t go out and do the things
we practiced all week.”

Things went wrong for the Gen-
erals from the very beginning as
Greenfield’s concussion left him
unable to return until the fourth
quarter, when he scored a goal the
first time he touched the ball.

“Losing Greenﬁeld really hurt
and it really hurt team morale,” said
freshman attackman Matt Dugan.
“Robb is not only a lacrosse player,
he’s our emotional leader.”

The Tigers jumped out to a 1-0
lead two minutes into the game on
the first of five goals by junior
midﬁelder Doug Parker. Three min-
utes later the Generals bounced back
and tied the game 1-1 on a goal by
freshman attackman Ben Lucas.

That would be the last time the
Generals would tie the game, as
freshman attackman John Neely
scored back—to-back goals in the ﬁ-

SENIOR PAUL Stanley tries to beat his defender in the Hampden-Sydney-

nal 2:30 of the half to give the Ti-
gers a 3-1 lead at the end ofthe ﬁrst
quarter.

At the beginning of the second
quarter Tom Super was given a 3:00
penaly for a long stick violation. The
penalty was the result of one ofthe
random stick checks that take place
each game after the ﬁrst and third
quarters. It was highly unusual for
the referees to chose Super, how-

Tigers battle on Saturday. The Tigers beat W&L I 1-6 in the ODAC Champi-

onship game.

ever, as they do not usually pick a
player who is often involved in the
faceoff. Super’s stick was deter-
mined legal at the beginning ofthe
game but during the course of the
game was bent as a result of his par-
ticipation in the faceoff.

On the resulting extra man advan-
tage, Doug Palmer scored two goals
to give the Tigers a 5-1 lead.

Senior Tom Fallace added a goal
for the Generals two minutes later
to cut the lead to three but Palmer
scored his fourth goal with 10:06 left
in the half to and the Tigers took a
6-2 lead into the locker room.

In the second half the Generals
cut the lead to three on three sepa-
rate occasions but that was as close
as they would come. Greenﬁeld’s
goal in the fourth quarter made the
score 9-6, but the Tigers’ Chammie
Burroughs then scored two of his
three goals to make the ﬁnal score
11-6.

The Generals are at Randolph-
Macon on Wednesday before re-
turning home to take on VMI in
the 11th annual Lee-Jackson La-
crosse Classic on Saturday.

There is a strong possibility
that the Generals could meet up
with this same Hampden-Sydney
team in the NCAA tournament be-
cause of the tournaments’ re-
gional setup.

“We know we might see this
team again in the tournament and
we look forward to playing them
again,” said Dugan. “This loss
does not ruin our season.

“We want to see them again in
the tournament so we can show
them that we’re the better team,”
said Stanley. “We want revenge.”

RESULTS
, MEN’S
MEN’S LAX MEN’S TENNrs* BASEBALL WOMEN s TRACK LAX
H_S H w&L6 w&L 71, 11.5 55 W&L 18, GC6 4"‘ place in ODACs
’ , * , * CC 6» W&L-7’ MEN’S TRACK W€d~ @ R-M

WOMEN s LAX WOMEN s TENNIS H_s 1 1, W&L 9 3... place in ODACS
W&L 9, RC 5 W&L 72, Hollins 34.5 Lynchburg 9, W&L 2 Sat. vs. VMI

GOLF . Il:ee-éackson

3"‘ place at Lynchburg invitational *0D/‘C C/“Imps ax ass“:

UP NEXT. . .

WOMEN’S WOMEN’S
LAX TENNIS
NCAA Toumy NCAA Toumy
Time and @ W&L
Location May 5-1 1

TBA

MEN’S GOLF
TENNIS

NCAA Regional Mon. & Tues.
May 8 ODAC Toumy
TBA

‘i

 

 

 

A

vi»

Q

A

IAPRIL 27, 1998

PAGE 5

 

FOREIGN STUDENT SPEAKS AT REUNION

"1’ A keynote address by Phillippe Labro ’58, a noted French author
and journalist, will kick off the alumni weekend festivities 8:30 p.m.
Thursday in Lee Chapel. The title ofhis speech is “As The World Turns:
W&L 40 Years Later.”

Labro’s best selling novel, The Foreign Student, is based on his college

I years at W&L in the mid-’50s.

ACLU LEADER VISITS W&L
Ward Connerly, Chairman of the American Civil Rights Institute, will explain
‘I why affirmative action should be abolished during his speech in Lee Chapel on
Wednesday. Connerly has gained national attention as an outspoken advo-
cate of equal opportunity for all Americans, regardless of race or sex. The
lecture, which is sponsored by Contact, is free and open to the public.

A.
I CONTACT HOSTS SIERRA CLUB PRESIDENT
Adam Werbach, president of the Sierra Club, will speak in duPont Audito-
rium 4 p.m. Thursday.
~ As the 46th president of the largest grassroots organization in America,
’ Werbach, 24, is also the youngest president elected in Sierra Club’s I04-year
history. He heads the board of directors and leads the lobbying and conserva-
tion organization of more than 600,000 members across the country. Werbach
is currently leading the Sierra Club in campaigns to clean up America’s air and
it strengthen protection of our national forests.

DUO PERFORMS IN DUPONT

The Findell/Lugo Duo will perform a double bass recital on Tuesday at 8
,( p.m. in duPont Auditorium. Leanne Findell Lugo, currently on the music fac-
ulty at Washington and Lee, and Leland Lugo have been touring and perform-
ing their own special brand of chamber music together since 1994.
For two years, the duo performed in the Caribbean, Alaska and the Mexican
Riviera with Princess Cruises. This year, they will be traveling throughout
* Virginia performing recitals and promoting their new children’s book, Jeremy
and Grandpa ’s Magic Clock.

KNIGHT PROFESSOR GIVES LECTURE

X Louis W. Hodges, the John S. & James L. Knight Professor of Journalism
Ethics, will present a lecture next Monday titled “A Provincial Press in a Global
Setting.” The lecture will be given at 7:30 p.m. in Leybum Library’s Northen
Auditorium and is open to the public.

 SONOKLEC1“ SEASON ENDS WITH NASHAWATI

Violinist Bassam Nashawati, acclaimed as the “finest violinist in Syria, per-
haps the entire Arab speaking world,” will present the season’s ﬁnal concert
for Washington and Lee University’s Sonoklect series at 8 p.m. next Friday in

1 the Lenfest Center. Pianist David Riley from the Eastman School of Music will
accompany him.

The concert is open to the public and free of charge. A reception will follow
the performance where members of the audience can enjoy refreshments and

‘r meet the -performers.--4

MAYO ISLAND INVITES YOU TO JOIN US IN KICKING OFF OUR

1998 SEASON WITH...

6
I“

4

featuring

,A—

4

l’

noon - 7pm

,5

«A!

E
E
I
E
E

4%

ceﬂeﬁhaticut

TO BENEFIT FEED THE FUTURE

Southern Culture on the Skids

GOOD GUYS
SPIKE THE DOG

Sunday, May 3, 1998

$5 advance / $6 gates
available at plan 9 only

TICKETS AVAILABLE AT ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS
OR CHARGE BY PHONE AT 804-262-8100

Mayo Island is located off of the 14th Street Bridge in downtown
Richmond, Va. Limited parking is available on the island. Additional
parking is available in streets and lots through out Shockoe Slipl
Shockoe Bottom. A free shuttle to the island may be picked up at the
corner of 15th Street and Main Street in front of Sea Breeze Cafe.

« I1€WS

ALUMNI ARTISTS EXHIBIT IN DUPONT

Michael Kopald and Patrick Hinely, both Lexington residents as well as
members ofthe class of 1973, will present ajoint exhibit oftheir works,
Chinese brush paintings and photographs, respectively, in the university's
duPont Gallery from April 27 to May l4.

Their show overlaps W&L’s alumni weekend and the 25th reunion for
the Class of 1973. The opening reception will be held this Friday in the
gallery and the public is invited to attend.

PHI NOW PUBLISHES CLASSIFIEDS

Need a hot date? Need to find someone to shack up with next year? Need
to sell stuff? Then buy a classiﬁed ad in The Ring-tum Phi. Two dollars buys
ten words.

Drop off your ad in the Phi business ofﬁce on the 2nd ﬂoor of the univer-
sity center by 5 p.m. Thursday, and your message will be printed in the follow-
ing Monday’s edition. '

LEXINGTON RESIDENTS PUBLISH BOOK

Good-bye to Old Peking: The Wartime Letters of U. S. Marine Captain
John Seymour Letcher I 93 7-39, co-edited by Roger B. Jeans and Katie Letcher
Lyle, hasjust been published by Ohio University Press. Capt. Letcher was a
1924 graduate of the Virginia Military Institute and a member of Washington
and Lee University’s 1927 law class.

Lyle is the daughter of Capt. Letcher and was born in Peking. Jeans is the
Elizabeth Lewis Otey Professor of East Asian History at W&L. Together, they
have edited the letters which Capt. Letcher wrote to his mother in Virginia
between 1937 and 1939, during which time he commanded a company ofthe
U.S. Embassy Marine Guard in Peking.

W&L AWARDED TWO FULBRIGHTS
The Fulbright Scholarship Board recently awarded fellowships to

Hampden H. Smith and Christiana P. Callahan. Smith is a professor of ‘

journalism and chairman ofthejournalism and mass communications de-
partment. Callahan is a senior chemistry and German literature major from
Alexandria, Va.

Next academic year, Smith will be the Fulbright Scholar to the American
University in Blagoevgrad, Bulgaria. Callahan will study at the University of
Aachen in Aachen, Germany. During her 10-month visit she will perfonn bio-
chemical research on the genetic predisposition to develop allergies.

CONNORS WINS AWARD

Sophomore Michele K. Connors has been awarded a Barry M. Goldwater
Scholarship for the 1998-99 and 1999-2000 academic years.

Goldwater Scholars are selected on the basis of academic merit from a field
of more than 1,100 mathematics, science and engineering students nominated
by the faculties of colleges and universities nationwide.

ANNUAL LEE-JACKSON GAME THIS WEEKEND

The Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic will be held this Saturday on Wilson
Field at 2 p.m. W&L hopes to maintain its winning record in the annual game
against its neighbor.

STUDENTS SHOULD REGISTER THEIR DOGS

According to a recent article in The News-Gazette, the city animal war-
den is checking up on dog licenses. Pet owners found in violation of city
pet statutes will receive summonses. Unlicensed dogs found in the city
are subject to impoundment for up to five days.

Dog licenses can be obtained at City Hall with proof of rabies vac-
cination. -

 

JAMES EARL RAY DIED THURSDAY

Convicted assassin of Martin Luther King, Jr., James Earl Ray, died
Thursday of liver disease at 70. Ray’s brother is planning the open
funeral for three weeks away to assure that Ray's pastor is available. He
encourages King's family to attend.

GUNMAN KILLED IN MCDONALD’S

One of two gunmen who took about 15 people hostage at a New
Bedford, Mass. McDonald’s late Sunday was found dead after police
crept into the restaurant. Police don’t know ifthey shot the man or ifhe
committed suicide. None ofthe hostages was injured. The other suspect
fled in a car with one hostage and was at large.

JACKSON HAS EYE ON POLITICS

While he downplayed talk ofa presidential bid in 2000, the Rev. Jesse
Jackson nonetheless said the gap between rich and poor must be a defin-
ing issue during the next two election years at a meeting at Ohio Univer-
sity in Athens, Ohio. “More and more Americans are being left behind,”
he said. “That must be the essence ofthe debate in ’98 and 2000.”

Jackson’s two-day visit to this city of 2 1 ,000 about 60 miles southeast
of Columbus has been labeled as an attempt to gauge his appeal for a
possible presidential bid for 2000, but Jackson said it was too premature
to make that decision.

‘GRAMMY’ ARRESTED FOR SEXUAL ABUSE

After five years of house arrest and failed appeals, Boston residents
Raymond and Shirley Souza are preparing to spend the rest of their lives
in prison. The Souzas were convicted of raping two granddaughters, 3-
and 4-year-old girls who told of being forced to touch the private parts of
“Grammy” and “Papa.”

Experts found physical evidence consistent with sexual abuse, but
not conclusive proof of it. The Souzas are 66. If they end up behind bars,
they say they expect to die there.

GOVERNORS DISCUSS RACE ISSUES

On Thursday, 12 governors will get involved in President Clinton’s
dialogue on race by taking part in activities focused on racial issues,
such as panel discussions or town hall meetings, as part of a national
effort by the YWCA to focus on the elimination of racism in Washington.
Six others planned to issue proclamations urging a statewide focus on
racial issues. Hopefully, the discussion will trickle down to benefit local
communities.

DILBERT WINS AWARD ‘

“Dilbert” was named this year's top newspaper comic strip Saturday
night and creator Scott Adams won the Reuben Award—cartooning’s
highest honor—at the National Cartoonist Society's 58th annual Reuben
Award ceremony.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Annual Fund Staff Associate

The Ofﬁce of University Development has an
opening for an Annual Fund Staff Associate. This
position assists in the development and management
of strategies to increase involvement in the ﬁnancial
support of Washington and Lee through the Annual
I Fund which provides direct support to the

University’s operating budget. The term of the
position is one year, renewable for a second year,
with preference given to recent W&L graduates

As this entry-level position depends on creative
communication to a varied constituency, the
successful candidate should posses excellent writing
and verbal skills. Also necessary are demonstrated
initiative, an ability to work within specific
deadlines, ability to prioritize and juggle multiple
tasks, an ability to supervise and manage student
workers and alumni volunteers, and a willingness to
assist other staff members as needed. Candidates
should also be prepared for evening and weekend
work and some travel. Familiarity with computers
and with public relations principles is a plus. A
bachelor’s degree is required.

Candidates should send a complete resume and letter
of application to Robert W. Fox, Director of
Personnel Services, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Equal Opportunity Employer

 

 

PAGE 6

ahitol Humor, ®pinion alndlieviews

Lost In Space crashes on the

blg screen

BY BRIAN Paisoo
H17MovIE Cxrnc

When I heard that Last in Space had knocked Titanic
out of number one in theaters across America, I was ec-
static. At last, I thought, something new, something excit-
ing, something without that God-forsaken Celine Dion song
in it.

Then I saw the movie.

Lost in Space is the updated remake of the 1950s space
voyage show of the same name. The multimillion dollar
budget was used to tune up the black and white of the old
show and the result is a movie with more bells and whistles

L as T", I N ::=ri>..c..I'a

 

The cast is star-studded and some of the stars burn a
little brighter than others. William Hurt is pretty boring as
Dr. Robinson, and Mimi Rogers (Maureen Robinson) is
just there. She isn’t bad, she isn’t good. Heather Graham
(Judy Robinson) is basically very attractive. Her sole pur-
pose for being in the movie is so that horny teenage boys

can stare at her and imagine what she
looked like in Boogie Nights naked.

than Kit from Knight Rider. It was
just lacking one small thing: a de-
veloped plot. C C
The movie follows the exploits
of the Robinson family as they jet- Matt LeBlanc
tison across the cosmos en route
to Jupiter. Dr. John Robinson (Wil-
liam Hurt), a brilliant scientist but a
shoddy father, is dragging his fam-
ily on a 20-year trek in a spaceship
piloted by Captain Don West (Matt

my belief that the Friends
cast cannot act. He has
one emotion: stupid.

She seemed inappropriate as the bril-
liant scientist.

Matt LeBlanc is absolutely abys-
mal as Captain West, and furthers my
beliefthat the Friends cast cannot act.
He has one emotion: stupid. He was
almost the downfall ofthe movie, but
they left that honor to Lacey Chabert
(Penny Robinson). I wanted to see

 furthers

LeBlanc). Trouble arises when a
saboteur, the villainous Dr. Smith
(Gary Oldman), sets the ship up for a self-destructive course
into the sun and the family is hurtled into the black void of
space and time.

This movie had a lot of potential to become interesting.
It had aliens, robots, space travel, intrigue, espionage, the
whole nine yards. The problem with Lost in Space is they
choose to do all of it, so there are more gaps in the plot
than Gaps in the Mall of America. I wanted to like this
movie, but they didn’t do anything with it. Elements kept
being introduced and then were never explained.

For instance, they discover this little alien that can
change color and looks like something out of a Dr. Seuss
book. What potential! Do you know what they end up
doing with the creature? Nothing! It just appears and you
see it bobbling around the background. That’s it. Crap like
that happens throughout the movie. They start to develop
these wonderful plot points and then forget about them.

The truth is out there: W&L
conspiracies finally revealed

BY KEVIN MCMANEMIN

9 9 her ﬁred out ofa porthole in the open-

ing credits ofthe movie. This was her
first film, and I hope movie audiences won’t be subjected
to her high-pitched Smurf whine in any more.

Then there’s poor Robbie the Robot. What they did to
Robbie is a crime. In the old show, he was this lightbulb—
headed machine that covered all the comic relief. In this
version, he looks like a cross between a Go-Bot and a Eu-
reka vacuum cleaner. He’s used as a cheap gimmick and it
pains the fans of the old show to see him.

Don't get me wrong, there were a few good things about
this movie. Gary Oldman was, as usual,just phenomenal.
The man cannot act poorly. And Jack Johnson (Will
Robinson) was absolutely terriﬁc. Expect good things from
him in the future. Also, the special effects were spectacu-
lar. Ijust hope that Hollywood will finally learn that special
effects don’t make great movies. Hollywood needs to get
its head out of its collective rectum and start finding some
better story lines before more of their plots get as “Lost”
as this one.

THEIOONEY BIN

They say that President Elrod and his jack-booted deans have wiped their
noses on the honor system, thrown up all over the SJC and decorum prevents me
from mentioning what they did to the IFC. They say these are all part of a wide—ranging
conspiracy to wrench control of W&L away from the students and put it completely in

They say that student autonomy at W&L is as dead as Sandra Bullock’s career.

the greedy little hands of the faculty.

Of course, like most rumors, they’re all true. Is it a mere coincidence that “faculty”
and “fascism” start with the same two letters? Well, probably. But that’s not the point.

The point is that there are a number of far-reaching conspiracies currently brewing in
the President’s ofﬁce. After several months of tough, intensive investigative joumalis-
tic work that would have made myjoumalism professors proud (despite the grades they
gave me last tenn, the bastards) I managed to uncover none of these conspiracies. So,
like any good journalist working on a deadline, I made some up.

I ) TH€ SATURDAY CONSPIRACY: Most students spend Saturday afternoons sleeping
and Saturday night drinking. Many even enjoy Saturdays. Clearly, this is not the kind of
environment we want to foster at W&L. So Saturdays will be replaced by another

Wednesday.

2) THC LIBRARY CXPANSION CONSPIRACY: Leybum Library is running out of space
to put books. The recent purchase of The Complete Stephen King set now takes up the
entire third floor and most of the fourth. So frat house basements, which were previously
wasted as dubious dens of dirty dancing and drunken debauchery, will be ﬁlled with

books.

3) THC ROBOT CONSPIRACY: By the year 2000, students will be replaced with hyper-
intelligent robots. Studies have shown that robots party less, work more and require
absolutely no food or sleep. This means that donns and the D-hall can be

turned into really bitchin’ faculty lounges.

4) THE: JFK ASSASINATION CONSPI : Oliver Stone only scratched
the surface. It was Castro, backed by Elrod, in league with the Mafia,
under orders from the CIA, funneling funds from the EC. Dean Manning
was the second shooter on the grassy knoll. (Well, why do you think he’s

ﬂeeing to England?)

5) THE: SORORITY HOUS€ CONSPIRACY : A closer look at the “Master
Plan” reveals: site for proposed sorority houses - Woods Creek. Site for

proposed sorority house showers - President Elrod’s office

6) TH€ €XPULSlON CONSPIRACY: Fraternities can now be kicked off

campus for any of the following infractions:

-consumption of beer, root beer, birch beer or any other liquid
-failure to pay Housing Corps kickbacks regularly and promptly

-house’s columns not polished a “sparkly white”
-excessively loud laughter

-fratemity president has more than five letters in his last name

-cattle prodding without a permit

last Wor

seven

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
Sports

SATURDAY

2 pm. Men's lacrosse: l.eealack-
son Lacrosse Classic. W&L vs. I/Ml
@ Wilson Field

V Parties
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

"L -SATURDAY

I Chi Psi - me Convertibles

Lambda Chi - me Standard
Phi i)elt- Mike Co!-ado, (afternoon)

1 Right 0!: (evening)

OQOOOOOQOOOOOOOOIO

Arts & Entertainment
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

I . TU ESDAY
8 pm. Concert: The Findell/Lugo
Duo, violin/viola double bass re-
cital @ duPont Auditorium A

' 4 sun.’ “G|acial~l.ake outburst

2:30 p.m; Symposium: thund-

. Room ,327,_Williauts ‘-

 

APRIL 27, 1998 V

  
 
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

A  

WEDNESDAY    Alumni Weekend
12p.m.SpanishTertulia: span-j, Evém-s_‘ 
   

15 Universityﬂace    I
oooooooooooooooooo§;‘;§‘39Pt"!?“9"?W’  I  5/
Lectures I  

oooooooooooooooooo   
I ’ — I ‘A  94'5"-‘if ”.“.‘~'?".l :§‘°“l°l.’."
MONDAY  Alumni 

Floods in the Mountﬁverest Re-f ,
giant of Nepal: Flow Processes.
Flow Hydraulics, and Geomor-xi; .
phic Effectiveness,” Daniel _.
Cendere|li.@RooInG-14,Science ‘

VVEEﬂNES[WxYWf;§¥
7:30 pm. Contact: ‘fAbolishitfg 
Affirmative Action." Award _:
connerIy;@ l.eeClta])el f: I  

THURSDAY -
4p.m.contac.~t::AcIam  ‘I,
president‘ of ,e‘$i,erra"
dul?ontAud_itorium 

-t

 

Qistinguisned Alumni Awards

   

tureotwoman aII¢I!iI°1\'19tifi>ll:
tics: “Male and 
He Themisonie iﬂetlections on ,.
Genesis 1-3,” ltonnajiurger @,

 

Lexington, Virginia

area.

H E LP
WANTED
Men and Women earn
$375 weekly processing/
assembling Medical I.D.
Cards at home. Immedi- ,
ate openings, your local 0
Experience unnec-
essary, will train.

Call Medicard 1-541-
386-5290 Ext. 118M.

0

O

O

O

Econo Lodge

  

Comfortable and aﬂordable, the Econo Lodge at Lexington is
conveniently located at the Intersection of I-64 and US Highway
1 1, putting you close to all the historical sights of this area.

Accommodations:

9 48 Attractive Guest Rooms with Scenic Mountain Views

0 ColorCable TV — Free ESPN and HBO
King Beds and/or Two Double Beds ——Non-Smoking Available
Free Continental Breakfast; Free Local Phone Calls
9 Restaurants within walking distance
Attractions:

Natural Bridge —— 16 miles

Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee University
VA Horse Center

Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee Tombs

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

9192 IT gllévnﬁ"

.90 Pt: ‘(IN ripen; rte
501,0 NN we LLUY27.

Do you rmNI<- Yvvtlé
PI/NNY? ?vrYvv%9lF
oI\I THE LINE: 70% mole -
oI=t=eND Trleawvadr Bowl,
0FFél~|D THE FMVLW, Flt»/I’:
Foul. goes/IIT \/I>v?- owu

Tvem ‘am IN AT,
me tin DFFWE.

BJT’.

 
       
     
  
  

4

TIIERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT wE cAN ‘
 REALLY COUNT 0N TO HELP USACCOMPLISII ALLTIIAT , 1* '
 3 WE NEEDTO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE 
.. Tlll‘. TOYOTA coRoLI.A. ovER THE PAST so YEARS. ~ V
 coRoLLA IIAs BECOME oNE or THE Iiosr TRUSTED ,,
V§f’cARs IN IIIE woRLD. AND Now rrs Al.L-'NF.\V...WlTH '1 
:2; -' MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NI-‘.\V
 .ALllMlNUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
’ rrs MORE ECONOl~llCAL...UP T0 3s__ MILES PER 
GALLON IIIoIIwAY. coRoLLA Is SAFER AND ‘ ?
 QIIIEIER, AND IIEsroEALL. IrsrARrs
AT A PRICE LowER TIIAN LAST
YEAR. MORE cAR...LEss
MONEY. WHAT A
REFRESHING ?

  
 

CIIANGIZI

  

TOYOTA lg ox/orbldalj

 

 

