   
 
 
 

  

   

 

 

 

YC . » I JAMES G. LEYBURN LlBHAH‘r
(£‘F€)”(?( —,,-5,9 NASHINGTON & LEE umvensm
 it I l L’ lEXiNGTON, VA 24450
  JAN 15 net
I ’  25 34
I - 1998 Winter Rush:
- ~ - — — — — — — - ~ - — — — — - - - - ~ - ~ ~ > - - — ~ - A - ~ — - ~ — — — ~ — vi , -—-~——~———~—~———A~~—~ ——————-———-
zo %%%%%% -  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% - ‘lfhe Numbers Never Lie  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% - .-
~ 3 ------ — — - - — —————————————————————————— - - . 3 -------------------- — — - -
as Approximately 80 percent of freshmen 3
E 15 " ‘ ' ’ ' ’ ' ‘ ’ ‘ ‘ ‘ ’ ‘ ’ ’ ‘ ’ ‘ ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ’ ' ’ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ “ males accepted fraternity bids Kappa Sig 2 3° ' ’ ’ ' ’ ' ’ ’ ’ " ' ‘ ’ ' ‘ " ' ‘ " " ‘ " ‘ ’
0. ' 1
3 — — — — — — - - ~ — - — — — — - — - snagged the most pledges, 23. *Lambda “.5 — —
, g 1o _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ - _ _ Chi didn ’t tear any pledges. (See related § 23 .
E page one story.) 5
= - _ __ 7 _ , _ _ _ _ =
z
z 5 _ _ V _ Approximately 70 percent of W&L women 25 _
pledged a sorority. This was KD ’sﬁrst
‘ _ M " _ rush conducted by W&L women. Chi-0
Ben xw KA K2 AxAu me on om ox: r1i<A r1i<d> ZAE xx ZN ms and Kappa were the only sororities to 24 ' '
Fraternity meet quota. Sorority
ii 3 ¢ .7 Bulk Rate
I Lexingtcn,Va.
B   t PWMM
4 Washington and Lee University Monday
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 10 JANUARY 12, 1998
~ I WO m ale
. ff'GS h m 9 I1
Ci B I d
k N ' ht - h I C U
I BY HEATHER MCDONALD AND WILL HARDIE
‘T-*— Assr. Nizws EDITOR AND COPY EDITOR
“It wasn’t this bad [last year], I can tell you that,” said
Dr. Jane Horton of the Student Health Center.
. Ten freshmen, five men and ﬁve women, ended
women’s Bid Night intoxicated in the infirmaiy Friday.
Three of the men were transferred to intensive care at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital with blood alcohol concen-
trations over .300, a level doctors consider physiologi-
ii cally dangerous. A BAC over .400 can be deadly, possi-
bly leaving the patient unable to breathe.
Two of the men were held overnight in intensive care;
the third was released back to the SHC.
The casualty’ ﬁgures for Saturday night were unavail-
'i able at the time of press, but in previous years Tear Night
has claimed more victims than Bid Night. On Bid Night
last year only one freshman was taken to the Stonewall
Jackson ER, but on Tear Night two freshman women and
I‘ one freshman man were taken to the SHC, two of whom
were transferred to the ER.
On Saturday afternoon, Horton, Security Chief Mike
Young, Dean Leroy “Buddy” Atkins, IFC President Ja-
son Callen and the fraternity presidents met to discuss
g the situation.
“Basically, all we talked about was toning stuff down,”
said Callen. “Unfortunately, there tends to be a lot of dam-
age to people and fraternity houses on Tear Night, and
we wanted to prevent that.” 7 Phi Psi junior, and freshman Mindee Perdueﬁolic in the spillover. This year 195
3 “Traditionally at W&L, Tear Night is a rough night, N OHﬂN LIKE A CHEAP CAN OF BEER ' " men and 156 women accepted bids from Greek organizations.
and we just wanted to make sure everyone had a safe Brian Cenviva, Phi Psi pledge, is ritually showered in beer, while Adam Ingols, a HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR
night,” he said.
I
* US mutual selection DFOCGSS
leaves freshmen t ' th Id
, y ou in e co
BY KATHIE SOROKA one I was invited back to, so 1 con- foimals with them. They were nice . . , . ,,
—‘——‘——‘——-“STAFF WRITER sjdered dropping out of Rush _ _ _ and about dropping me’ but sti”, I was Sup mg Y0“ It 5 not _801ng t_0 W0Tk Out-
Rush is supposed to be a time of Washington and Lee,” she said. “I felt prised.” . Two. other. dllappomted freshman
having fun, making friends and find- so rejected. Ikept asking myself what He has chosen to stay independent ,g,lrls’ .K,i,ent1€?/lug ihemselves .aS
I ing a place in a fraternity or sorority. I had done to make all these girls not rather than face the “stigma” of pledg- Francle and Rose’ wer.e not qulte
Unfortunately, some people fall like me.” ing an unpopular fraternity. as devastated‘ These glrls were
through the cracks. She was told Rush was “laid back” “It’s not the end of the world; I’ve drgppéd from Rush completely after
“In 3 Perfect W0F1d, and if and “notabig deal,” yet she does not moved on,” he said. “But, I did en- Skl: Fight" .
Panhellenic had its way, no one would feel this is the case. tertain thoughts of transferring and I m glad It happened to me and Pot
' fall through, but the way, no one “It’s unfair that they cut so many I’m not alone. Having frats at a S0mel?0dy.wh0 really cared about it’
would fall through, but the way the people after one night,” she said. “I school doesn’tautomatically make ev- Francie Sad’ I.mean’ I m not gomg
system works, there are inevitably wanted to be in a sorority my whole eryone happy,” Eibelllfclntherapy 111 1_0 V6315 because Of
going to be glitches,” said Panhellenic life. This was devastating. I’ve seen He feels the dorm counselors iS' 0w.S0me glrls 01.1 my.han W110
Rush Chair, S€I1i0F H0113’ Th°m5en- 50 many girls get their feelings hurt.” didn’t do an adequate job of prepar- this was 2.1 h.fe or.death Sltuanon for‘
“There’s a lot of confidential stuff in An anonymous freshman boy was ing the boys for Rush. Francle 15 a 1‘‘“‘?.h“" though‘
about. It’s a crappy process.” temities. wasn’t expecting duplicity,” he said. inouthﬁ She Saw‘ “It did hurt _m)’ feel‘
One anonymous freshman only got “I considered these guys close “While you’re at their Rush date they lugs" I was Stunned’ a1moSt.mcredu'
‘ invited back to one sorority aﬁer Open friends,” he said about one fraternity. say, ‘We’d really love to have you back 1:95’ lfecause I tholiight ,1, did every-
House Night. “I h . . h h . 1 f b . , ’ t ing was suppose to.
“I wasn’t very comfortable with the Homzhscorariifilgigeirfdlthhvdt gcinzlriosltliscei i1heoi1(ex’ihc‘l3ayr$:)liie:gSeltll2:ep)l,1(:)liiefziliilelif ‘Tm not upsei that Pm indepen-
- dent, but I wish 1]: was more of my
' ' ' choice than some ody else’s ” Rose     /’..
Faculty office smoking falls victim to - i . hnsto_phe‘r~Lue’
d. “I f 1 fl f b h .   .*~    ’
~ Zeéiifé Si eftctitede ..',’2f’i ~“*h°¢sh 1ﬂ¥'nl=*1iet?nx;ﬁna1¢xa!ns .
new pol icy ‘fis h bowl’ s moki n still 0 K Just have nothing to do ” ””~A‘““”t“““° W“ ~”‘’i°‘‘‘°”‘*‘ “”
’ ‘ g Francie suggests that Rho Chi’s tell .‘. iB»u‘tA°\f°r  most part mere”
BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK weighing the rights between smokers and non-smokers.” their girls more about the possibility of V
at NEWS EDITOR “Anyone who broaches the subject of smoker’s rights not making it to Pledge Night.
The administration has successfully extinguished fac- will instantly be told that smokers have no rights,” “I was led to believe that they had
ulty office smoking, after a heavy crossﬁre and debate MacDonald said. “So I never really touch that subject aspot in the sororities for all the girls
between non-smokers and smokers. President John Elrod anymore.” pledging,” she said. “We never'dis-
released a statement Friday outlining Washington and “All fall, we listened to the views of smokers,” Dean cussed with my Rho Chi about not
’ Lee’s revised smoking policy, one that will prohibit fac- Laurent Boetsch said. “We understand that it will be in- getting into a sorority. In fact, she
ulty smokers from lighting up in their offices. convenient for professors to go smoke outside and inter- said each sorority’s pledge class was  
“It was done in the interest of health and safety,” Elrod rupt their work. But the same goes for non-smokers. A the number of girls pledging divided   p  ' 
Said- _ lot of non-smokers were forced to work at home because by ﬁve.” as p   » p  p  , t ‘ " Nohjfﬁtemﬁg  952 .
, "(lj‘he smoking lounges in the library will still accom- of the second-hand smoke.” “I didn’t know a lot of the upper-    R  - "  P ‘ “ " ’ A   .
mo ate smoking studiers. Creating smoking lounges in academic buildings classmen girls, but I was under the '
b “I donh’t see anynproblelms Cxlvithithe smoking longues, to accommodate professors who smoke was not an op- impression that you can go there and  m  a C h I d    S h
ecauset ey are we -venti ate an insulated,” Elrod said. tion. meet people and you still have a “ _ ,
Elrod said that he hasn’t heard any negative feedback “We barely have enough room for professors and stu- chance,” Francie said. BY KATHRYN MAYURNIIVIEEWS EDITOR There 15 no threat Ofus losmg our
* from faculty members, but Professor of Journalism Ronald dents, let alone smoking lounges,” Boetsch said. Rose agreed. “Everybody says you Size doesn’t matter, At least not charter bécause of our .Small num-
MacDonald, a pipe smoker, is slightly steamed about the The committee of deans and Director of Personnel make so many friends during Rush, for Lambda chi Aipha_ b(?rS’” Sald Rush Chalrman Dan
change. Robert Fox explored the question of second-hand smoke. but I just don’tsee it,” she said. “You I Lambda Chi voluntarily tore no Hmey‘ “weave been worse Off be-
“I’m not happy about it,” he said. “But it is something “It was the best decision for the majority,” said Boetsch. meet people for a second, and they’ve freshman Saturday since the 21-man fora” .
.[ that I have to go along with it and find a way to survive.” “Those with respiratory problems especially suffered.” met the rest of the freshman class that house consists of 10 seniors and only A group of me" want to tear with

Professor of Journalism John Jennings smokes, but
never smoked in his office.
‘‘It really won’t affect me,” he said. “It was a matter of

In response to more smokers pufﬁng outdoors, the Uni-
versity will provide more outside ashtrays to cut down on
littering.

night. By the time you leave, you
don’t remember the names of the
people you met.”

four sophomores, some might feel that
the fraternity is in a precarious posi-
tion. The brothers disagree.

them immediately, but they want the
chance to get to know a few others

(D SEE RUSH PAGE 2

 

    

  

AE    V 0   W JANUARY 12, 199 I.
ODK Inductees

  
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
    
   

 

C1388 Of 1998 David Andrew Lehman
Byron Bernard Burns, III David Edward Sugerrnan
Anurag Nunzni Chandra 1
Timothy Francis Cleary Law Class of 1998
§’"a1:“I:l‘¥ ‘ref’; D°l‘°”Y Jeffrey Alan Keithline
a°,d Dlc a_e F gorm Timothy Josephy Keefer
Davih 8:/;‘l'lSh olszr M. B. Long I
zlaziiiefiiive I)1:ni:: Hzigd/(e)Sck David Tilton Mclndoe
Joshua David Heslinga
Glenn Frederick Miller  ClEassk0f  LIP  COMPETITION  T0 
TIN oynrecsoni I
“\;;§{ama{€§;ar§WO,SOn Wm, Owens Lewis FUNDS,FUN FOR AREA CHARITY ON JAN. 19 -
Celeste Elizabeth Rasmussen Hutchinson
Anne Carter Shaw Enen Marie wasilausky The 13th annual Lip Synch competition will be held Friday, January 23, in the Pavilion.
Lorraine Marie Taurassi Act registration is $30; there is a six-person limit on acts. This year’s competition will be
John Joseph Thrall Honorary Members hosted by Matt O’Brien and Wes Armstrong. There will be a mandatory meeting on Thurs- ,
Laurent Boetsch , 69 day, January 22 to detennine the order of the acts. The number of acts per group is not limited.
Class of 1999 Ben S Gambi“ ,67 All proceeds will go to Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger (S.A.R.A.H.). Last
Lindai Kramz year, over 8 tons of food were collected for local area food banks. Organizers Matt O’Brien I
Maflﬁwesley A1'm5tT°ng Ed ar  S encer ,53 and Gerry Darrell are hoping to surpass last year’s record level of participation, when the 20 :
Natalia M- D°r°feeVa g ' P acts including the Housemothers and Dining Hall staff. Contact either Matt O’Brien at 464- I‘ I

1221 or Gerry Darrell at 462-8596 if you have any questions before the meeting.

FOUNDER’S DAY/ODK INITIATION JAN. 19;
DISTINGUISHED CIVIL WAR HISTORIAN TO SPEAK ’

The 127th observation of Robert E. Lee’s birthday will be celebrated Jan. 19 at 1 1:30 a.m.
in Lee Chapel. This year’s speaker will be James I. “Bud” Robertson, Jr., who is widely
acclaimed as one of the nation’s leading Civil War historians. The title of his lecture is “Lee: '
The Marvelous Man.” He has received every major honor given in the ﬁeld of Civil War
history, and has authored or editored over 20 books. Robertson is Alumni Distinguished
Professor in History at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg, Va.

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national honorary fraternity founded at W&L, will initiate 20
undergraduate students, seven law students and four honorary members.

Founder’s Day was instated after Lee’s Death, when the Washington College board of
trustees declared that his birthday should always be celebrated at the college. ODK was founded
in 1914 to recognize superior leadership achievements in various aspects of campus life.

WLUR TO HOLD MEETING TONIGHT AT 7

WLUR 91.5 FM is holding an organizational meeting to organize the winter term radio
schedule on Monday, Jan. 12, at 7 p.m. in Reid Hall 203. No prior experience is necessary. ’‘
Everyone is welcome.

JOHNNY GRIFFIN JAZZ QUARTETTTONIGHT AT 8

The Johnny Griffin Jazz Quartet will be performing at 8 p.m. in the Keller Theatre. For
tickets call 463-8000. Tickets cost $3.00 for students, faculty and staff.

—. Compiled by Heather McDonald
/5‘: I to ‘mold tliemﬁ’ U - ' 1 A A , ‘
[\,‘  R U S H Lambda Chi builds up their freshmen, instead of break-

Cl(;N-HNUED FROM PAGE 1 ing them down, Hilley said. 

The fratemi is proud of their strong stand against
who they met too late during the rush process, men who hazing. ty    G I I 
fell through the cracks. Instead of extending bids to just *

. _ “People think that because we do not haze, Lambda
anyone to increase their numbers, the Lambda Chis are

striving to be more selective to get Pledges that will pre Chi is just a iignﬁup Sheet1’l”hHmey i%aid‘f“But th§g.ilS.n’t * * * * * * * * * * * *
t ' . Th ' t res onsi i i .
serve their besie ttetetnitv neliey and redefine their in tl?s1:entialT)f,ewer:e:vili1l:::iiinin:iIi:m(io:un d 1‘r:i'atemityt.)’I’ PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH IS SEEKING
ag?.f‘;°“E‘§;“5' h ,h b ,h , are 0,, ,0 We on ‘fwe are Yety excited ebetit setting a eete green of COLLEGE STUDENTS TO WORK FOR THE ,
°n ” "f’w °“_’ 3 r0 e S g g mrate quality individuals who are willing to take’up this chal- SU1‘,I1\,IER OF 1998 AS ‘VRANGLERS AT OUR
these men, Hilley said. We really want to conce lenge Hllley Sald_ It 5 hke Stamng oven R
on getting quality guys, instead of quantity.” " ’ V  OR AS FLY FISHING GUIDES UPON 
“it was really “aid t° meet 'f‘" °“h‘i Mme‘? '°°°a“.“ Wanted nu Individuals, Student SMITH RIVER. MUST HAVE GOOD EXPERIENCE IN \
th: Ill”l3_l();ify ofour house coritsilstslpfserEiors,:)Hilleytsaid. organizations and small Groups to Promote EITHER FIELD AND NIUST BE V‘/ELL ABOVE X
“ 0t 0 our seniors are ou 00 mg or _]O s, S0] was 19975 - 3,eak1',-ave] packages A.
really hard.” Earn snhs‘§§'n"§’di MONEY and ease mes AVERAGE IN PEOPLE SKILLS. SPECIAL ,
The freshmen that Lambda Chi will end up initiating AT Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS  CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO
will deﬁne the fraternity for the next four years, said Hilley. ‘1-800-3 27-601 3 GRADUATING SENIORS,
“We’re looking for a core group of leaders that will ’
take over most of the house offices in the spring,” Hilley PLEASE COXTACT A]_\/IVY HITLI:§ OF THE
said. “Since the sophomores are always the best at rush- CAREER DE‘/ELOP1\/‘[Ej§T OFFICE IS
ing guys, we want to be more selective about this year’s R D {AT}: Om
members, so they can recruit in greater numbers next EXCELLENT BJATTIXGLY SE  ON Am) V
year.” EXTRA INCOME NOW! INSTRUCTIONS , AN APP ,
This way, Hilley says, the fraternity will not be top ENVELOPE STUFF|NG_s5oo_$8oo every week AN ISTERVIEV7 APPOI$Th4E$T-
heavy, because they will lose smaller numbers of gradu- Free Details, SASE to
ating seniors in the upcoming years. A International Inc. PLEASE ALSO WRITE TO ELK CANYON RANCH,
...;3‘:‘:..“:;°.:‘.‘*;*t:;::..it;:;:.:it:;‘:.::f;tt:;::::*‘:.:; aI3I»‘«~5é’."»‘i«!v'v‘'v‘’«'~‘r‘i‘i‘t'ieo 1151 SMITH RIVER ROAD» WHITE SULPHURSPR‘NGS= ’
. . g h. W}; H d " ' MONTANA, 59645 FOR SPECIAL INFORMATION ABOUT
unique image ont is campus,” i ey sai .
After Lambda Chi tears the group of freshmen, they THESE TWO POSITIONS’
will seek out independents in a deferred rush process. ,
“We are looking for guys who maybe

its":.2::.W.::‘.‘:t.z.::::‘t:‘:.:“:::t;:*::I: SPEND A SUMMER WORKING IN
 ’ w ﬂﬂféﬂﬂ @3049” THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS OF MONTANA .

Lambda Chi President Trey Lee admits
that image is sometimes a big catalyst at

an tattisissometimesw some ' * * * *  * * * *
‘Y:?i§1‘L§TE3%En§::Z‘..d5...... PC'PP°g°“°’5 W‘ “T97 Sale PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH WILL SOON

°fII0 fau,1I0ftheiI°WIIa”’Lee Said,-_ _ BE RECRUITING ITS STAFF FOR THE 1998 '
weliv:sSkfr]:1‘titr(iiriti:rs(:1rIOi3i':i<itgztfcjiigifiaiz Slices and Clothing SUMMER SEASON BOTH WELL MQTIVATED

in a period of transition, and Lambda Chi

feemhatit,s,e,dyf0,,heCh,,,g,,_ : _ 1 V UNDERGRADUATED AND GRADUATING SENIORS
¢‘Tl'1lS is adworld where there is grow- plmne 4©3_5Q58 _______ V Q3  Meiin __e><mg‘LOri        

ing adversity against fraternities because

people are failing out ofbundings and get |”5”o‘.ED REs[DEN'r/AL suMMER CAMP‘ ENCOURAGED TO INTERVIEW FOR THIS

ting drunk,” Lee said. “By our very dif-

ferent nature, we have an edge, an inher— ‘ needs male and female Cabin COnSe/O/‘S,     ’

:E;:?‘;f;?:’2.i2:?.:? :t:.i:“.:t::.‘;:;*:;"*:::§ Adventure Counselors, instructors CANYON RANCH WILL BE ON CAMPUS

L-ambdahChi is the fastest growing frater- (Swimming, HOrSe, CanOe, Ropes),     

nit in t e nation.” ' ' in
)l~Iowever, W&L’s chapter of Lambda Health Coordinators and Area Directors. 

Chi has not been growing as fast as the LOCated Near Gree/7SbOrO, 

I1ati0f1al fFatemit)’- PLEASE COXTACT AIVIY HITLIX OF THE
tt h d h ' d'ff d , , I

untr:dit:t)ri:fl,”‘l-Iiﬁ:yl:aicI?‘Mar(iyei’1fa::]r- For more information call Netta at CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE IN

MATTINGLY HOUSE FOR INFORMATION, ‘ ,
INSTRUCTIONS, AN APPLICATION, AND
AN INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT.

nities follow a military system with their    or
pledges. They break them down in order _ _
e-ma// me//IOtt@amarog. ces. ncsu. edu

 

JANUARY 12, 1998

l‘? 2,: . ‘kw

ltﬂyou can handle

 

ANNEIISER-IUSCN
Washington and Lee students may put their uncanny
appreciation for beer products to good use in the market-
ing and distribution departments of the company.
Feb. 1.

BY 5’IEPHEN Prisca
SrAi=i=WRnisR

Many summer internships do notoffer any monetary
compensation for months of work.While some interns may
be happy to accept better understand-
ing of a particular industry and few
other beneﬁts, some students yearn
for greater things.

Some are awestruck by the raw
power of a big, rolling wiener. Some still

  
   
  
  

IAYWATOII
Students will witness ﬁrst-
hand the genius behind the world’s
most absorbing drama. Rolling Deadline.

_ OOMEDY CENTRAL
°‘‘“‘"'.‘‘‘‘’'_ 35 t‘lh° l;1‘f‘°k'f‘:’h‘h:d 5P¥ -°“‘°':1S ‘lyl; South Park!!! April Fools Deadline.
nanllte In t C W ltC'C 0 C Spy 5 San WIC   

in the latest issue of Mad Magazine. Some
twenty-year-old eyes illuminate with the magic
unlocked by the twist of an Oreo cookie. Some
still clearly see the logistics of a talking dog solving mys-
teries with his friends.

If you are one of those students who wants more than
an insider ’s understanding of a certain industry—even if it

 Interns aid in sensory analysis, prod-
uct distribution and development while enjoy-
ing the mountain recreation of Golden, Colorado. March 1 .

FORD MOTOR COMPANY A
Interns work in manufacturing and marketing and
get to watch the crash test demonstrations.

   

is just a few Doritos—read on. APT“ 1-
The following internships for the sunnner of 1998 are FOX INCORPORATED

all legitimate internships that require hard work and help Interns work closely with movie

pave the way for future employment. They also have some screenings and get a free video. Roll-

odd, interesting or different characteristics. Further infor- irig Deadline.

mation about these and other internships for this summer fﬁrfc LAY

can be found in the Career Development and Placement «Chip heaven}: March 31'

Office in the Mattirigly House. "‘""A ."a£'A

‘cA°EM' of '£I'EvIsI°" ‘'78 Interns must have a double “o” in their name.

AND SCIENCES

Ain’t that right, Boo-Boo. Rolling Deadline.
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
Harley—Davidson provides work in marketing

and distribution. Interns meet many interesting
people. March 31.

The Academy of Television Arts and
Sciences offers a highly esteemed, hands-
on internship within the television indus-
try. Deadline: March 31.

 

Escape Lex’s quaintness
for D.C.’s grandeur

BY MELODY ANDREOLA

BY SARAH NIEIDRUM
——————-—— SrAn=WRni-:1

K, so maybe the Greek scene
isn’t your cup of tea. At
Washington and Lee, some-

times it seems as if the Greek scene is
the only form of entertainment around.
The school does throw the occasional
lavish party-think FD, Mock Conven-
tion—but there are a lot of other week-
ends when not much appears to hap-
pen. -

Students who choose to remain
independent are not cutting them-
selves off from their friends in frater-

8rAn=WRnnz

Some 19-year-olds in the nation’s capital wake up every morning and
head to work at Burger King. Last spring, Jason Hahn, ’99, woke up each
morning and went to work at The White House. Junior Nathaniel Tencza
made the morning commute from his Connecticut Avenue apartment to
CBS News headquarters.

Halm and Tencza took advantage of W&L’s spring term internship
program in Washington, D.C. During the Washington Tenn Program run by
Professor William Connelly of the Politics department, students intern
Monday through Thursday, and attend class and guest lectures on Fri-
days. They receive credit for their work.

Hahn, a politics major, interned at The White House travel office.

“It was really exciting working there,” he said.

Although he didn’t get to meet President Clinton, Hahn did see him
and the First Family. “We used to have Chelsea and Hilary sightings in the
hall,” he said.

The main component of the six-week program, the internship, is the
student’s responsibility. With the help of Professor Connelly and his assis-

tant, Danielle Simonetta, students can apply for internships in almost any BY ERICA PROSSER SWFWRHE,

ﬁeld. Students find their internships during Winter Term while attending a V stardom has beckoned to a

weekly class aimed at preparing students for the program. I cadet and he has answered
Tencza used the alumni network to land “,5 a Show called The Real World

his internship at the newscast division of CBS
News. He produced, edited, wrote and con-
ducted interviews for the two- to three- minute

that claims to be about  well, the real

Interns learn . world. Now, one VMI cadet will be-

by d01ng- clips used on the evening news. come a ."‘‘’'‘“b“ ofthe MTV Show ﬂlat
—William Tencza covered a variety of high- roﬁle made Vlewers understand what reahty
. . . p . really is.
Connelly news stories, including man—on-the-street in-

Dave Bums, VMI senior, has fin-
ished the complex and lengthy inter-
view process, and he has worked his
way into the hearts of the executive
producers. Confirmation of his place
on the show came through the first
week of December. Burns is ofﬁcially a
member of The Real World VII, the sev-
enth season of the popular program.

The show consists of seven

_j_______ 9 ’ terviews about the controversy surrounding

Joe Camel. “It was the hardest thing to walk
up to people on the street with a microphone in my hand and a cameraman
behind me and get them to talk with me. It was great,” said Tencza.

The Washington Tenn Program is open to all majors. Interns in the past
have worked in Congress, think-tanks and lobbying firms, as well as The
White House and CBS.

“The Washington Program works well with any liberal arts education
because it exposes students to an array of different elements including
history, politics, and science,” said Jeremy Adams, senior.

“Intems learn by doing,” said Professor Connelly.

The course complements each student’s internship. Professor Connelly
tailors reading assignments to support the student’s internship experiences
with the related theories. The aim of the course work is to force the student
to think more broadly about what he sees and hears it: the internship and
within the classroom.

“Washington Term is an opportunity to combine theory and practice
and forces you to question ideas in the face of competing evidence,” said
Adams about his experiences.

The last part of the course, the guest lectures, exposes students to a

  

e igtiliiﬁrresroritrrg
Jan. 16 & 17

 

variety of professionals working in Washington, DC. Past lecturers include Underground
Mack McLarty, the former Chief of Staff to President Clinton, and Washing- Tw 0 e ,1 , re P , e n eu , 1- a 1
ton and Lee alumnus, Congressman Jim Davis. friend, hide the,-rfaml-[ms

To apply, pick up an application outside of Professor Connelly’s oﬂice.
in the Williams School. Attach a resume, a writing sample, and an unofficial
copy of your transcript. Students must have completed Pol 100, 101 or 1 1 1 .
If you have any questions, contact Danielle Sirnonetta.

——W&Life Editor Liz Detter contributed to this article.

and neighbors in a base-
ment shelter during W W]
and convince them to
manufacturer weapons to
sell on the black market.

jjjjjjjjjjjjjjq

   

3a‘,%, «;.m_ », .» ,. J’rul' ’

could be driving the Wienermobile

PAGE 3

 
  

  

    

compe ition,

Q3???

stiff

 

TNE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE

Interns work closely with the decision-makers and
top executives of the NFL and get free merchandise.
April 1.

NOME IOX OFFICE

Interns with programming of the nation’s
two most popular pay television stations, HBO
and Cinemax. March*3 1.

THE LATE SNOW WITN DAVID
LETTERMAN

Program admittedly limits interns to
secretarial work, but they know the Top Ten
List before any of their friends. March 1.

MAO MAGAZINE

“Free pinball instruction from a man who was once
known as ‘The Big Gun’ and ‘Gunther.”’ Interns partici-
pate in brainstorming for upcoming issues. May 1.

MATTEL
Mattel offers internships in product development,

    
 
  

NIELSON NORTH AMERICA

Someone needs to tell those people what we re-
ally watch on television. Rolling deadline.

OSCAR MEYER WIENERMOBILE
The Oscar Meyer Wienermobile is looking for joumal-
ism, public relation and advertising students to be spokes-
persons for the wieneimobile. _ And that’s no bologna. Feb. 2.

PLAYIOY MAGAZINE

Interns work in distribution, mar-
keting and other areas, learning the
magazine industry in a perky, upbeat

'aW5’.!§

   

Jan. 23 & 24
Microcosmos
Using specially designed
cameras, this documentary
tracks a day from dawn to

 

marketing and other ﬁelds. One intern started her own
personal line of the famous Barbie doll. March 31.

c%7a¢

Rolling deadline.

MTV

Music Television-Intems get to wear
casual clothes and hang out on the beach.

NAIISCO

Nabisco offers work in public relations, cus-

atmosphere. Rolling deadline.
IIOII
Reebok requires attendance at
seminars on the importance of not wearing Nike and offers
$5 massages to all interns and employees. March 15.

\t

O
hgr

l

ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE

tomer service and marketing, not to mention free cookies.

Interns generally gain 15 pounds by the end of the program.

Marchl.

NATIONAL IASKETIALL ASSOCIATION
Interns work closely with the decision-makers and top

executives of the NBA. March 31.

NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY

Interns work in various capacities during the intem-
ship, including sports, news, comedy, and drama. April 1 1 .

Proud to be
Greek free:

Social scene
for independents

nities and sororities.

“The majority of my friends are
Greek,” Tadzia GrandPre said.
GrandPre tried to start an Independent
Union with fellow senior Andrew
Ruppar a few years ago.

“[We] tried to do it for two years,
but there’s not much interest in it,”
GrandPre said. The Independent
Union no longer exists on campus.

Maybe independent students
simply like being, well, independent.

“It’s certainly possible to have a
ﬁilﬁlling college life without belong-
ing to a Greek organization,” senior

strangers picked to live in a house and
get along for ﬁve months. MTV some-
times puts conditions on the members
of the cast, just to make things inter-
esting. The cast of the sixth season
had to spend 20 hours each week do-
ing community service. Burns does
not yet know what, if any, conditions
will be placed on him, but that part does
not matter as much as getting to be on
camera 24 hours a day.

For Burns, it all began with an
open casting call in a Richmond pub.

Burns impressed the show’s pro-
ducers and directors from the first. He
endured several interviews, both on-
and off-camera, over the course of sev-
eral months. Interviewers asked him
about his life at VMI, his family back
in Boston, his future plans and his

Jan. 30 & 31
The Blue Kite

dusk in mi-
cro-metropo-
[is of tiny
creatures in-
habiting a
F r e n c h
° meadow.

An epic docudrama
about I 6 years of birth
and death, tears and
laughter, and happi-
ness and tragedy in a
Chinese home.

 

Interns examine the magazine industry through the
eyes of pop culture. March 30.

SESAME STREET
This is the only internship that places you next to big

fuzzy puppets. Rolling deadline.

WALT DISNEY STUDIOS
Walt Disney Studios offers internships in the world’s

foremost in the animation industry. Interns examine the

March3l.

Milagros Daly said. Daly
is a member of numer-
ous clubs, including
the International
Club, which holds
events for all stu-
dents. Daly said
that the International
Club plans to host a
Polish dance festival
later this year.

The Fridays! committee, started
by former “Dean of Fun” Michelle
Richardson, provides Friday night en-
tertainment. GrandPre, president of
the committee, said Fridays! likes to
bring in comedians, bands, and other
entertainment.

work of the animation studios. Ask for “J imbo.” He teaches
the most eﬁective ways to slip perversions in the cartoons.

“They’re things you can do be-
fore going out to parties,” she ex-
plained. Students are welcome to at-
tend, whether or not they participate
in fratemity or sorority Rushes.

Junior Mark Slomiany decided
against rushing when he was a fresh-
man. Although he does not regret his
decision, he does think there are ben-
eﬁts to belonging to a fraternity, such
as having a place to gather with a large
group of friends.

“It would be nice if W&L had a
student center like other schools,” he
said. Until the new student center is
built, independent students will lack a
central meeting-place.

But independents do not lack

social options in Lexington.

(6

It’s certainly possible to
have a ﬁilﬁlling college life

Dorm rooms, apartments,
restaurants, and movie the-
aters are some of students’
hangouts.

“I think Greek afﬁliation

without belonging to a deﬁnitely loses importance by
G1-gek organization the time people reach senior
_MilagT0S D a [y year, said Vanessa Hall, senior.

“The Palms and the Staircase

personality. They invited him to Wash-
ington, D.C., for another interview. Fi-
nally, Burns brought the show’s direc-
tors and cameramen home to Boston
with him over Thanksgiving to meet
his family. The directors were collect-
ing footage for the premiere episode
of the show, in case Burns made the
cut. After that break, the executive
producers gave him the thumbs-up,
and Burns was ofﬁcially made a mem-
ber of the cast.

A week in Los Angeles followed
his selection. This month, Burns will
head off to Seattle to spend ﬁve
months in a house with six other
people, all the while under the eye of a
video camera. The complete season
will air in July 1998, and Burns will be
back in Lexington to see it. Although

 Cut-it-out 
Washington and Lee  Society Calendar

All screenings are at 7:30p.m. in the Troubadour Cinema at the comer of Main and Henry Streets.

Feb. 6 & 7
The Pillow
Book
Aroused by
having men
write on her
naked body, a woman
chooses lovers who are’
good calligraphers to sat-
isfy her fetish.

 

hjjjjjjjjjjjjjj

’ become the center of the so-
cial scene.”

VMI cadet enters The Real World

his work at VMI is almost complete, he
needs to spend a sunnner finishing up.

The Real World has thrown
strangers together in six major cities
to date. The ﬁrst season of the show
was set in New York City and aired in
May 1992. The other cities selected
have been Los Angeles, San Fran-
cisco, London, Miami and Boston.
Cast members are chosen from across
the country and are identiﬁed by only
their ﬁrst names while on the show.
Like other cast members, Burns will be
paid an undisclosed fee for participat-
ing in the show. Nothing is yet known
about whether MTV will create an
eighth season of the show or where
such a season would be ﬁlmed.

MTV has asked VMI and Burns
not to comment on his role in the series.

oNE ACT

AU DITIONS

Jan. 17 & 18, 2-5 p.m.
in the Johnson Theater

Black actresses and actors
are especially needed. Parts
are available for one black ac-
tress in Alex Christensen’s
“Raimie” and one black actor
in T. W. Leshner’s production of
Richard Kaliban’s “Gladiator.”

Scripts available at the
third-ﬂoor Lenfest Center re-
ception desk.

 

 

 

PAGE 4

RESULTS

Men's Basketball (5-5)
Mon.: Va. Wesleyan 53
W&L 59
Thur.: St. Mary’s (MD) 80
W&L 62

Sat: Roanoke 72
W&L 62
Women's Basketball

(53)

Tues.: EastemMerm. 44
W&L 62

Thur.: W&L 64
Hollins 45

Sat.: W&L 54
Roanoke 61

AHEAD

Monday

Men's Basketball -
Dickinson

7:00 p.m., Warner Center

Tuesday

Women's Basketball —
Va. Wesleyan

7:00 p.m., Warner Center
M&W Swimming —
Buffalo State

7:00 p.m., Twombly Pool

Wednesday

Men's Basketball —
Lynchburg

7:30 p.m., Warner Center

Thursday

Women's Basketball —
Randolph-Macon

7:00 p.m., Wamer Center
Wrestling — Anderson
7:00 p.m., Doremus Gym

Saturday .
Women's Basketball —
at Lynchburg, 2:00 p.m.
M&W Swimming —
at Goucher, 10:00 a.m.
at Catholic, 4:00 p.m.
Women's Track —

at Va. Tech Invitational
Wrestling —

at Swarthmore
Invitational, 10:00 a.m.

Basketball falls to
Roanoke after up-
and-down week

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
:“‘“:"“’* STAFF VVRITER

The Generals closed out an up-and-
down week with a tough loss on Sat-
urday Night at the Warner Center to
arch rival Roanoke College, 72-62.
The game was full of physical play
and ended with a altercation after the
ﬁnal buzzer between players from
both sides. The loss concluded a 1-2
week for the Generals hoopsters, who
downed Virginia Wesleyan 59-53 in
a thriller on Monday night and lost to
St. Mary’s of Maryland on Thursday,
80-62.
The Generals led Roanoke 37-32
at the half, sparked by the hot shoot-
ing of Will Ballard and his 10 ﬁrst-
half points. But the Generals met with
disaster in the second half as the Ma-
roons outscored them 40-25.
Roanoke capitalized on the Gen-
erals’ inability to take care of the bas-
ketball, forcing 23 Generals turnovers
on way to the victory. The Generals
were not able to control the pace of
the game as Roanoke forced an up-
tempo game, using Generals’ tum-
overs to get out on the fast break.
The Maroons were led by a bal-
anced scoring attack as four players
finished in double digits. Junior guard
Dewane Bullock led the way with 20
points, back court partner Nathan
Hungate ﬁnished with 10, sophomore
forward Kyle Murphy ﬁnished with
10, and Tom Dettloff finished with 12.

The Generals were led by senior
Kelly Dyer who finished with 21
points and Scott Hudson who scored
14. The loss brought the Generals to

    

5-5 overall and 3-2 in the ODAC, one
game behind first place Hainpden-
Sydney, who downed Guilford 102-
74 on Saturday.

The win improved Roanoke to 5-
5 overall and 2-2 in the ODAC. The
loss marked the fourth game of a six-
game home stand in which the Gen-
erals have gone 2-2 thus far. The
Generals return to action Monday
night as they host Dickinson in a non-
conference battle at the Warner Cen-
ter at 7:00 p.m.

Washington and Lee 59

Virginia Wesleyan 53

The Generals kicked off the 1998
portion of their season with a thrill-
ing victory over Virginia Wesleyan
on Monday Night at the Warner Cen-
ter, downing the Marlins 59-53 with
a huge second half comeback.

The Generals trailed the Marlins
24-13 at the half as they shot a miser-
able 22 percent from the ﬁeld in the
ﬁrst half. But the Generals came roar-
ing back in the second half,
outscoring the Marlins 46-29 and
shooting 59 percent from the ﬁeld to
pull off the upset. The Generals also
forced 23 Marlin turnovers through-
outlthe course of the game.

With less than 3:00 left in the game,
the Generals again found themselves
trailing the Marlins, this time 53-47.
But the Generals ended the game with
an amazing 12-0 run, including an
amazing tip in by Kelly Dyer with 0:25
left in the game and one second remain-
ing on the shot clock. Head Coach
Kevin Moore praised the Generals for
the amazing comeback.

Are you good with numbers?

0112 ilting-tum {ﬂirt

is looking for a

Business Manager.

SUBMIT YOUR RESUME AND A
COVER LETTER TO TH E PHI

IAAILBOX IN THE

UNIVERSITY CENTER BY
p.m. Friday, anuary 16.

You will get paid!

sports

JANUARY 12, 1998

PHOTO BY HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

' Sophomore Rich Peterson shoots from the charity stripe Thursday night in an 80-62 loss to St.
Mary ’s (MD). Peterson ﬁnished the night with 12 points.

“An old W&L team would have just
given up, but this is anew W&L team,”
said Moore. “ We had a lot of different
people step up for us at crucial times.”

Moore went on to praise the play of
sophomore guard Matt Jackson, who
led the Generals with 18 points, and
freshman forward Eric Owsley, who
played a crucial role down the stretch.

“Matt [Jackson] had a huge game
for us and Eric [Owsley] made a lot
of plays that just don’t show up in the
box score,” commented Moore. “We
don’t have a player who is going to
carry us; we have a lot of good play-

ers and each game we’ve had some-
one different pick up the slack.”

Sophomore forward and last year’s
ODAC freshman of the year, Rich
Peterson, made his return from his
hand injury and scored ll points and
was 5-6 from the line including key
free throws down the stretch.

The Marlins were led by Jason
Nickerson, who scored 12 for Vir-
ginia Wesleyan. Tim Petrillo added
10 and Troy Walton scored 1 1 for the
Marlins. The win dropped the Mar-
lins to 6-2 overall and 3-2 in the
ODAC.

St. Mary’s Md. 80

Washington and Lee 62

The Generals couldn’t keep up with
a tough St. Mary’s team and lost to the
Seahawks 80-62 Thursday night at the
Warner Center. The Generals trailed
from the beginning and could never
come back to catch the quicker and
faster Seahawks.

The Seahawks shot an amazing 74
percent from the ﬁeld in the second half
and finished the game shooting 69 per-
cent from the ﬁeld. The Generals were
outscored by nine points in each half
and could not find the mark on offense.

Division III Preseason
Men’s Lacrosse Poll

Washington and Lee is ranked 1 1th in the preseason men’ s
lacrosse poll. W&L was ranked 13th at the end of the 1997
season. W&L opens its season at Guilford on February 25th.

1. Nazareth 1,306
2. Washington College 1,265
3. Salisbury State 1,180
4. Ohio Wesleyan 1,087
5. Gettysburg 1,048
6. Roanoke 905
7. Denison 824
8. Middlebury 730
9. Alfred 706
10. Hartwick 640
11. Washington and Lee 610
12. Ithaca 512
13. Williams 415
14. Hampden-Sydney 410
15. Western Maryland 364
16. R.l.T. 361
17. Cortland State 213
18. Springfield 192
19. Franklin & Marshall 174
20. Amherst 169
21. Bowdoin 145
22. Connecticut College 104
23. R.P.l. 89
24. Greensboro 74
25. St. Lawrence 49
26. Whittier 47
27. Randolph-Macon 40
28. St. Mary's, Md. 35
29. Marymount 25
30. Lynchburg 24

 

Winter breakjust
a brief pause

“Not long enough.” That was the over-
whelming response to last week’s frequently
asked question, “How was your break?”

The brief respite from school known as
Christmas Break was a mere two weeks this
year. Not that this is unusual; Washington
and Lee students get a three-week vacation
only during leap years.

While most college students around the
nation have a month off of school before
returning for classes, the Generals have just
enough time to dash home, see the parentals,
get some presents and celebrate New Year’s
Eve before rushing back to school.

The short break is a by-product of the
trimester system. The same system that
created the fabled lazy days of spring term is
the reason that the W&L academic calendar
is so bizarre.

Classes start later in Lexington than
almost anywhere else in the United States.
In May, long after friends at other schools
have left their books behind for summer jobs
and internships, W&L students are starting
spring term.

While spring term brings students the
opportrmity to study abroad, take special
seminars and make frequent trips to Goshen,
the trimester system also has some draw-
backs. The unique schedule poses problems
for starting dates for summer work, prevents
students from holding semester-break jobs
and doesn’t allow enough time to relax
between terms.

Aubetter way for W&L to keep the tradi-
tional» advantages of spring term and lose the
negative side effects would be to have a four
to six week optional term, either_in January
or in June. Fall and winter semesters could
be lengthened and courseloads increased to
ﬁve classes.

With the extra time off at Christmas,
students could actually get a chance to
unwind, and return to Lexington rested,
refreshed and ready to resume studying.

/’ 
“  uote of the W€€l{:'

Inﬁrmary Nurse: “Who’s the president
of the United States?

Anonymous sorority pledge: “Elrod.”

7?

Ellis itting-tum ilﬂlri

Exeucitve Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Hillary Coombs

Andrea Ewing

Managing Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor
Assistant News Editor
w& life Editors

Kathryn Mayurnik
Heather McDonald
I.iz Detter

Tarah Grant
Frances Groberg
John Stewart

Will Hardie
Hollister Hovey
Torn Wadlow

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor
Asst. Advertising Editor

Matthew Craig
Douglas Brown
Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The
Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues.The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be
in the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center,
by noon on Saturday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit
submissions for content and length. Letters, columns
and "My Views‘? do not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does not
reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions
of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@ulu.edu

Fraternity
pledgeship:
a haze of
innocence?

“Thank you sir, may I have another?”

This, of course, is the famous line uttered by Kevin
Bacon during his pledging ceremony in the movie Animal
House. It's a funny line from a funny movie. But it’s not
so funny when it's your ass on the chopping block.

As fraternity pledgeship begins this week at W&L, one
should note the commonwealth of Virginia deﬁnes haz-
ing as just about anything under the sun, up to and in-
cluding staring cross-eyed at a pledge. When I talk about
hazing, I mean beatings, forced drinking and activities of
that sort.

From a Bar Stool
Eric Swensen 98

Let’s ignore for the moment the harm, the suffering and
even the possibility of death that these types of activites
can cause. The important question is, what purpose these
activities serve. I have been under the impression (a mis-
taken one, obviously) that pledgeship is supposed to teach
pledges something about the ideals of their fraternity or
the skills needed to assume leadership positions in the fra-
ternity some day, as well as testing their character. While
beatings and forced drinking may test character in some
sort of warped way, they certainly don’t serve any of these
other purposes. After all, if these activities are so valuable,
then why will no one stand up and defend them in public?
On the other hand, they do serve as excellent training for a
career either as Evander Holyﬁeld’s sparring partner or as
Ted Kennedy’s personal assitant.

Why do these activities continue if they serve no
discemable purpose? A good person to ask (if you can
ﬁnd him) would be John Taggart, a pledge at FIJI back in
1993. When asked by Dean Manning why he had missed
English class that morning, Taggart said he overslept. When

. asked why he overslept, Taggart proceeded to descrive two

nights of forced drinking and puships at the FIJI house.
Taggart then depledged. In what I'm sure was merely a
coincidence, Taggarfs dorm room was broken into later
that year. He had stereo and computer equipment worth
more than $3,000 stolen. Unsurprisingly, he decided to
transfer at the end of the year. I don’t mean to single out
FIJI or suggest that members of their house participated in
the break-in. It is clear, though, that there is a price to pay
for speaking out.

What this boils down to is quite simple. Fraternity mem-
bers want the pledges who follow them to go through a
pledgeship as tough, if not tougher, than the one they went
through. After a year of getting your ass kicked, it's only
natural to want to return the favor. Making things “easier’-’
is simply not an option.

Unfortunately (or fortunately, depending on one’s
point of view), there is not much the administration can
do to stop hazing. A crackdown would simply drive
hazing out into the country. There are plenty of places
in Rockbridge County where no one can hear a pledge
scream in pain.

It’s doubtful that hazing will end anytime soon on
this campus. I wonder what it might take to change
students’ attitudes toward hazing. Judging from what
it took to make changes to the alcohol policy, I shud-
der at what the answer might be.

/5i"t7t"7t?T*s't—L

Fifteen Minutes of Shame

3; c.,:‘f' #1 k
Fg,ar-3239*-

L ‘M isvwru 6 m~f\.f.EL.F-
/I ‘Fz>£_ *|*\ﬁr‘Do.~JNA.

When trees Show oﬂ their battle scars

95%, ‘_',l.,'. 601'
A ,‘,,,,_,¢--ru:,t4«~J, I-°""f7’

~17 AN
gldggft’ gcfoi. A“

A-T «MIC-:5

Seinfeld’s co-stars aren’t

happy about

<scene: Jerry Seinfeld’s apartment. Herry is eating a
bowl of cereal when Jason Alexander comes in. >
Jason: Ho-HO! You've really done it now! Had to quit
the show, didn't you?

Jerry: Look, I just felt that we’ve done enough that the
show had nowhere to go but...

The IDODCY Bin
Kevin Mclvlanemin 00

Jason: Nowhere to go? Nowhere to go? Now I’ve got
nowhere to go! If it wasn’t for Seinfeld, my life would
still be nothing more than struggling actor jobs and the
occasional off-off Broadway play.

<MichaeI Richards bursts through the door. >
Michael: (quivering) -Say it ain’t so! -« - -
Jason: Oh it’s so, baby. IT"S SO!.

Michael: No! (has drastic bodily contortion, knocks
some papers oﬂ a nearby table)

Jerry: Look, Michael, it’s not so bad! I'm sure NBC
will give you your own spin-off show. “The Kramer
Hour,” or “cooking with Cosmo” or something.
Michael: (smiles) Giddy-up.

Jason: Oh sure, SURE! He’s a popular character, and
he can milk this Seinfeld gig for years, but do you know
how hard it is for a stocky bald man to get a job on TV?
Jerry: What about Dennis Franz?

Jason: Alright, Dennis Franz is the exception.

ditching NBCj

Jerry: You know Dennis Franz won an Emmy Award.
Jason: ENOUGH ABOUT DENNIS FRANZ! L
<Julia Louise Dreyfuss enters and takes a water bottle out of;
Jerry’s ﬁidge.> "
Jerry: Look, don’t bother trying to convince me to stay.‘
NBC already offered me ﬁve million dollars an episode and,‘
I turned them down. '1
Julia Louise: Get out! (pushes Jerry down)

Michael: (says something unintellible, like “yibagavawa, ”..
while having drastic body convulsions, and knocking over a3
box of crachers)

Jason: Five million dollars an episode! FIVE MILLION‘
DOLLARS? WHOA-HO! I gotta ﬁre my agent.

Julia Louise: Think about who you’re really hurting here!
<enter casts of "Suddenly Susan, ” “Caroline in the City, "
"Just Shoot Me, ” etc. > .
Brooke Shields: Please, Jeny, don’t leave Must See TV. I’m
begging you. You know our writers can’twrite comedy! With;
out your cushy lead-in ratings, we'll go the way of “The Single
Guy!”

Jerry: You know, l’ve really got to start locking my door.
Alright, everybody out! I'm taking my girlfriend to see
“Anastasia” 7
Jason: Jer, hold on, I’m begging you here! Begging! Just give
it another season. Stick with the schitck, Jerry! Stick with the
schtick! ;

Jerry: It’s over! (voice in high pitched whine)

<everyone leaves. Jerry cleans up his cereal bowl, then puts on
a cape and ﬂies out through the window into clear blue  >1

Think the books are bad? Check out their price

I once spent so much money on textbooks that the
bookstore ladies gave me a free lollipop.

I didn’t know I was going to spend that much money
that day. There had been nothing to warn me: no as-
trological signs of foreboding in my Cheerios; no pre-
dictions of devastation in the Almanac; no dead ca-
nary at the entrance to the bookstore.

Red Brick Row
David Balsley 00

I was thoroughly unaware.

I arrived at the bookstore early that day. Students
were carrying their drop/add forms from the gym. Pro-
fessors were disappearing into the C-school. I made
my way to the basement of the bookstore and had a
look around.

Not too bad, I thought. This must be the one
time this entire week when the bookstore isn’t hop-
ping busy.

I started to pick out books, double-checking my
classes, times and professors. I grabbed a book here

and there, piling them in my arms. I checked out
the book covers as I went. I opened the books to
see how many of the pages were text and how many
were pictures.

That's when I realized something was wrong.

Before too long, I was having a hard time pull-
ing books off of shelves, let alone opening them. I
didn’t have a free hand anymore. I had gathered
up the books for just two of my classes, but already
my arms were full. I was carrying a mountain of
books which could rival Mount Everest.

As I picked out the books for my two other
classes, I came to a dreadful realization: Not only
did I have to read all of these books, but I had to
pay for them, too.

Maybe it won’t be so bad, I thought as I lugged
my books upstairs. I set them down on the counter.
The cashier began to scan their bar codes.

These books couldn’t be that expensive, I
thought. A lot ofthem are small. I should be okay,
I thought.

The cashier looked up at me. “You’ve spent
more than $300 on books. Go ahead and pick out a
lollipop,” she said.

I caught my breath.

“What?” I said.

“You’ve spent more than $300 on books. You can
pick out one of those lollipops,” she said.

Three hundred, I thought. Three hundred, I thought.
I just spent three hundred dollars on books, I thought.

I never meant to spend three hundred dollars on
books. I was setting records I hadn’t intended to set.

In a stupor, without seeing what I was doing, I chose
a lollipop. The cashier smiled at me from across the
counter. She was expecting some sort of
acknowledgement for her generosity.

I didn’t say thank you. I was too dazed.

Instead, in my weakened state, I did the only thing
I could do: I charged that mother ofa bill home.

I left the bookstore with my $300 of books without
saying anything else. I never thanked the cashier, who
had been nice enough to give me a free lollipop.

So I would like to thank her now:

I don’t know if you remember me, but when I spent
more than $300 on books one semester, you let me
pick out a lollipop.

Thank you.

 ""  i ' 1 If hazing were allowed, what would you do to your pledges?

“Clean my bathroom.”

— Kathryn Frankle '00

A “Force them to take Dean
Manning’s freshman English

class.”
— Marshall Sutton ’99

“Replace their sport utility
vehical with yugos.”

— “Lisa Brennon ’99

 

PAGE 6

By David Balsley

Staff Writer

This summer, when my brother Stephen left for his first
year at the University of Iowa, my parents had not planned
on bringing him home for Thanksgiving break. When No-
vember rolled around, they changed their minds.

So began my brother’s big adventure.

My parents bought Stephen a bus ticket and a train ticket.
A bus would carry him from Iowa to Chicago, and a train
would carry him the rest of the way to Pittsburgh. The whole
trip would take an aﬁemoon and a night.

Stephen caught his bus in Iowa City on Wednesday af-
temoon without any problems. The bus ride was dull. He
read most of the way.

When my brother arrived at the bus station, he began to
look for a taxi. He did not have to look for long.

A man greeted Stephen at the street. The man sported
dreadlocks and a smile and was dressed in a t-shirt, shorts

and sandals. It was 25 degrees outside.

“Hey, man, you need a taxi?” the man said in a Jamaican
accent. “I’m the best taxi driver in Chicago. I get you where

you need to go.”

1 ahitoi Humor, Opinion andlieviews
as Word

Getting the best taxi driver in Chicago for only five bucks

travel at 60 m.p.h. through crowded downtown streets.
Stephen’s taxi raced through Chicago. His driver wove in

and out of trafﬁc, steering into oncoming lanes to get around

cars stopped at red lights. People

Stephen told the
cab driver that he
needed to get to the

C(

Drug dealers offered to get him high.

swore at the taxi as it went by.
The driver swore right back, as

_, th h’t th'flhh
train station, and he re- Female hookers propositioned him. ha(:juag1,nl(,SVtvthe‘::,r au H at e
5P°“d"'d that the ‘rip Male hookers did the same My brother huddled in the
W°“1d°°5““Y “Other ' back afraid thatthis would be his
ten dollars" My  last c,abride ever

brother said that was
a little expensive, but that he was willing to pay ﬁve bucks.
The man said, “I’ll get you there for ﬁve dollars,” and
started to load my brother’s things into the taxi. Stephen got
in the back.
The best taxi driver in Chicago, my brother discovered,
likes to drive with all the windows down. He also likes to

Suddenly, the taxi veered
sharply to the left. The driver pulled into a parking garage,
took a ticket and drove through the garage to the other side
of the block. The driver said to the parking attendant at the
exit, “I didn’t park here, man, I don’t owe you nothing,” and
pulled back onto the street and up to the train station.

The meter read exactly ﬁve dollars.

JANUARY 12, 1998

Stephen’s adventure was not over yet. He got out of the
taxi, collected his bags and his wits and walked into the train
station.

Stephen sat down on a bench, hoping to relax after his
harrowing trip. No such luck. Drug dealers offered to get
him high. Female hookers propositioned him. Male hookers
did the same.

He told them he had no cash, and they left him alone.

A little while later, my brother got up to use the restroom.
Inside, he found a lady casually eyeing the men as they came
and went through the door. She stood as though she be-
longed there, in the men’s room.

“Wow, she’s stunning,” Stephen thought.

Stephen looked again. He thought, “Wow, she’s a man.”

My brother got into Pittsburgh on Thursday morning,
and left again on Saturday evening. He took a train, then a
bus, back to Iowa.

Jackie Brown: Tarantino, Grier, Jackson, De Niro

By Alex Christensen . _

——-—-———— Phi Movie Critic
The pitch: “It’ll be like ‘Foxy

Brown’ meets ‘Get Shorty.’”

I have been hesitant in the past to
be one of the geek army that worships
Tarantino as a cinematic god who can
do no wrong. While I have seen ev-
erything he’s ever written, rewritten,
directed, or acted in, including that
episode of “The Golden Girls” in
which he played a sneering Elvis im-
personator at Sophia’s wedding, I al-
ways took pains to make it clear that it
wasn‘t like I thought he could do no
wrong. But after “Jackie Brown,”
which was preceded by the other two
Tarantino-written-and-directed ﬁlms,
“Reservoir Dogs” and “Pulp Fiction,”
I think I can safely say that when
Quentin Tarantino writes or directs
something, it’ 11 be great. If that makes
me a Tarantino geek, I’ll just smile and
pull down the brim on my Kangol ball
cap.

love letter to Pam Grier, the blaxploitation
star of the 1970s who made her ﬁrst mark
in such ﬁlms as Jack Hill’s “The Big Bird
Cage,” “Foxy Brown,” and “Coffy” (her
best ﬁlm role), along with gentler
actioners such as “Sheba Baby,” “Fri-
day Foster,” and “Scream Blacula
Scream.” She’s also known for roles in
“Fort Apache the Bronx,” “Escape to
LA,” and “Mars Attacks,” and for her
stage work, which has linked her with
the works of Sam Shepard. While some
view Grier as a B-movie action star,
which she was, she’s also a much
underappreciated actress of the high-
est caliber, and “Jackie Brown” proves
it. If Grier doesn’t win the Oscar, it’ 11 be
pure Tarantino backlash, and nothing
to do with her shattering performance.
Grier plays the title character in this
story based upon Elmore Leonard’s
novel “Rum Punch.” Tarantino has
changed the character from a white
ﬂight attendant named Jackie Burke to
our black ﬂight-attendant heroine, to
create this stellar part for Grier. The

setting has been changed as well,
from the underworld Miami of
Leonard’s works to the underworld
L.A. Tarantino portrays in his ﬁlms.

Jackie Brown works for a little air-
line called Cabo
Air, ﬂying back
and forth from
LAX to Cabo San
Lucas. Not ex-
actly the best job
for a forty-ﬁve-
year-old woman
who has been a
flight attendant
for 20 years. In
order to supple-
ment her income, Jackie has been
moving money for a gun dealer
named Ordell Robbie (Samuel L.
Jackson). When Jackie gets caught,
she and ball bondsman Max Cherry
(Robert Forster) concoct a scheme
to try to play the feds off Oredell’s
trail in order to keep Jackie out of
jail and out ofharm’s way.

  

A rough outline can’t convey the
incredible pace, humor, and depth of
character with which the story is told.
Other characters includes Louis Gara
(Robert de Niro), an ex-con who may

‘ The pitch:
“|t’ll be like
‘Foxy
Brown’

2 meets ‘Get
Shorty.”’

have seen some better days, his pot-
smoking compadre Melanie Ralston
(Bridget Fonda), Beaumont Livingston
(Chris Tucker), a hood with a craving
for chicken and waffles, and Ray
Nicolet (Michael Keaton), the ATP
agent after Ordell.

Working in the crime genre,
Tarantino has been criticized for over-

His trip back was uneventful. My parents were relieved.

the-top violence. That charge is bo-
gus. Tarantino portrays violence, but
does not lovingly on it. It’s another
element which may advance the plot,
add humor or a jolt of adrenaline,
and which always has conse-
quences. Like real-life violence (like
I hang out at gang-ﬁghts, right?). But,
Tarantino’s real talent is a Jane
Austen—like attention to manners
among the small-time hoods, dealers,
and hangers—on he portrays. Who
would imagine a ﬁlm in which the ﬁre-
works fly not over verbal gymnastics
or gunﬁghts, but over the looks Ordell
and Melanie give each other, over the
sexual ethics of Louis Gara and over
the ahnost-underground depth of emo-
tion of the love story between the
tough Max Cherry, and the even
tougher Jackie. It all works sublimely.
The characters truly live and breathe.

Of course, in addition to the true,
almost believeable perceptive writing,
the acting is what puts the characters
over. In addition to Grier for Best Ac-

need I say more?

tress, I’d like to hereby nominate Rob-
ert Forster for Best Actor for his ca-
reer-changing acting bravado; Samuel
L. Jackson and Robert de Niro for Best
Supporting Actor; and Bridget Fonda,
in her acting debut (not her movie
debut) Best Supporting Actress.
Somebody told me they were wait-
ing the whole movie for Robert de
Niro to do something. They missed
the point. They should have
watched what Louis Gara was doing
— every second he’s on screen, De
Niro is wonderfully in character.

“Jackie Brown” is one of the most
tightly and cleverly plotted ﬁlms I’ve
ever seen. The Money Exchange se-
quence takes your breath away with
its economy, intricacy and suspense.
Characters and relationships have
their own theme songs. See also witty
reference to Hitchcock’s “Shadow of
Doubt,” “Saturday Night Fever,” and
“Taxi Driver.”

See it. Don’t expect “Pulp Fiction
2.” Expect Brown. Jackie Brown.

 

“Jackie Brown” is a funny, moving

A ﬁne line separates culinary preparation from knife

juggling. At Kabuki, a small restaurant in Roanoke,

this line becomes blurred. Seated eight to a table around
, A r  a large Japa-
' nese grill, pa-
trons watch
the showman-
ship of one of
their many
fine chefs as
he prepares
the meal. Fly-
ing knives,
good drinks,
flying food
and a differ-
ent type of at-
m 0 s p h e r e
complete this
experience.
For nearly $20 a person, you get very full on some ﬁne
Japanese dishes, prepared right at your table.

We headed down there on a Friday night; it was
Andrea’s birthday and it seems we end up going to
Kabuki at least once a year for someone’s birthday.
The place hadn’t changed much since our last visit.
After we were seated, our waitress took drink orders
while we waited for other patrons to ﬁll out our table.
Andrea celebrated her twenty-first with a frozen
margarita, while Doug had a strawberry daiquiri and
Robin sipped on bourbon and coke.

On this evening we sat and dined with ﬁve people
we didn’t know. As soon as everyone was seated and
enjoying drinks, chicken broth soup and salads arrived.
We all opted for the house ginger dressing on our sal-
ads, which added a tangy, unusual ﬂavor to the typical
iceberg and cucumber fare. We all struggled valiantly
with chopsticks to complete our dining experience, and
met with moderate success.

As we finished the salads, our chef arrived and the

Colonnade Club

Mkote, Ma we a»
Exémrdcv 11119 wean.
l l‘NEW lTWOULp Be.
Ft/N WHEN THE}
WLD U9 To 65
FEALD1 Vlclové.
"P<"V"lEt<P~1t<tMo6it
wewr wé/we Esme
term ruvwi
THEN wmwatilewie

t/We MU

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
 
 

 
 

show began. He double-checked our orders before
beginning to cook. Andrea chose Samurai Steak, pre-
pared medium rare. Robin selected Hibachi Chicken,
while Doug opted for the Kabuki special, both chicken
and steak, prepared medium.

The chef commenced his act with shrimp appetiz-
ers. He ﬂipped one ofthese successfully into Andrea’s
mouth, although his attempt to toss shrimp tails
through the air into a bowl adjacent to Doug was not
as well-aimed. The chef tossed knives and various
seasoning containers through the air as he prepared
chicken, vegetables, onions, and fried rice with veg-
etables. He doused these thoroughly in oils and vari-
ous seasonings, and at one point lit the display in an
impressive and startling burst of ﬂame.

The chef saved preparation of the beef until last.
He repeated the quick moves with knives, seen in his
early maneuvers with the chicken, and prepared a por-
tion of meat to each patron’s specifications. After
completing the show, he quickly cleaned off the grill
and retreated, followed by the sounds of applause
from our table. We ﬁnished our hot entrees quickly,
enjoying well-seasoned fare with tasty dipping sauces
for the meats.

Then from the distance we heard an unusual song,
which vaguely resembled “Happy Birthday” but
seemed to be in another language. Our waitress placed
a small birthday cake before Andrea, who after mak-
ing a wish, blew out the candles. A member of the
staff even took a picture of us with the birthday cake,
and we received a card containing the photoand wish-
ing Andrea a happy birthday in Japanese, before we
left the restaurant. We ﬁnished our meal with the ex-
cellent yellow cake, topped with rich white icing, and
pronounced the evening’s expedition a success.

Kabuki Japanese Steak House is located at 3503
Franklin Road in Roanoke. There's another one in the
Market Place in Christiansburg. Reservations are sug-
gested, and the phone number is (540) 981-0222.

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 

 art. awe N
WITH THE M09!’
A'rF0aoU$ men:
90 l!\l~’—,vr‘&P~V we laeeiuc
Hell BUTT, l‘i'Dl/D
tree aware alvvtv

wt wear; oHeAP awe.
eueaziao ?—léH'l‘Tl'tWl?,
%UT\Fiev1?«E no MT

  

WANT FUN
WITHYOUR
FOOD? Watch
cheﬁs cook your
dinner in front of
you. Robin, Doug,
and Andrea enjoy
dinner at the
Kabuki Japanese
Steak House.
Dinners range in
price from $1 1-22.

kl think I’m turning Japanese; I really think so

3 it
I


I{ ‘

A different type
of atmosphere.

-———~;;

are

Auditorium 51¢ 8 p.m. Lenfest Series presents the Johnny

Griffin Quartet $19? TUESDAY 51¢ 7 p.m. Women’s B-
ball vs. Virginia Wesleyan 31¢ 7 p.m. Men’s & Women’s

Swimming at the Twombly Pool #1’? WEDNESDAY $3?
4 p.m. Department Heads Meeting §>I¢ 7 p.m. Men’s B—ball

vs. Lynchburg :93? THURSDAY #1‘? 7 p.m. Woman’s B-
ball vs. Randolph—Macon ‘>145 7 p.m. Wrestling vs. Ander-

 

MONDAY 5% Law School

Spring Semester Starts 51¢ 7
p.m. Men’s B—Ball vs.
Dickinson 1%? 7 p.m. “Window
to Paris” —— a film in Northen

son in Doremus Gym *1‘: 7:30 p.m. State of the Dicipline
Lecture Series with Professor Marc Conner in Northen

Auditorium 333? 8 p.m. Senior Recital featuring Erik Christ
and the W&L Chamber Singers 1%‘ FRIDAY 35‘? 7:30
p.m. Film Society shows “Underground” in the Trouba-

dour 3>I¢ SATURDAY *5 7:30 p.m. “Underground”

WEN Tthaee \IvP<e Tine
0t\’<??- LHILE 6- -68 who
P¢WP<Lb"l TOLD ME ‘ME
WA-9 V-EALM 6009??! '
wm\ mute eel/\MA
gins. 1 iuerrow
1-letZ -riwétleo EETTER
RAVE l-V611 U17’: 40176?
t»Luer> T?7'll'l‘5lP— 
8écA1/9E’Wl€?E wAéN T
A 6No\N8ALU9 NW5?
(N WELL ‘ll'l’l°ﬂ‘ WED
ewe tree A an.

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

By Hollister Hovey

 
 
 
 
 
  
    

in MK 6017, "lvu
atciutltvaetmwéé
TD 0VP- Fl/‘2llE¢"77.
m2~ma\iuiaeiZ—
Tlhzl/\ t\lEVE¢Tl>l«l>“
U9 TD 98 Wlblvuﬁz...
new 6P<io’§}> BE
'VlVl°vclov9.

 

\1

Vi

I

 

