wsﬁwé

i

K

P.

K

I.

4.

4..

k

,1.

A

 

 

   

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 6

Phi Eta Sigma members offer
study tips to students.

PAGE 3

Ultra

 

LAST WORD

 
  
 

Alex Christensen reveals the
secrets of L.A. Confidential.
PAGE8

tug-tum

James  

gets

light
enalty

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK _
—”'—:—_“‘—“"’ NEWS EDITOR

ashington and Lee junior

Elizabeth James escaped

punishment on a felony hit
and run charge when the charge was
reduced to a misdemeanor at her trial
Tuesday.

If James was convicted under her
original charge,» she could have re-
ceived one to ﬁve years in prison
with a minimum of 12 months in jail

, and/or a ﬁne of $2,500. Instead, her
sentence under the misdemeanor
charge was a $50 ﬁne and a $30
court fee. James could not be
reached for comment.

James, who is from San Antonio,
Texas, was charged with hitting
sophomore Dylan Walsh the night of
Sept. 13 with her Volkwagon Bug.
According Walsh, the person who hit
him yelled “sorry” out of the window
and kept on driving. Walsh suffered
minor injuries. Walsh did not return
phone calls from the Phi.

Both James and Walsh had been
drinking, Lexington Police Ofﬁcer
Michael Hess said. However, police
could not determine whether alcohol
played a factor in the accident due to
the 90-minute lapse of time between
the accident and James’s arrest.

sriggm‘

' .' .' II ' '2
s:‘g;g;,;:.g;gs;s  frsrsus /.5553
.

.
R

'21-
? .../5...s.m..'ss...:...... ./ss:.s:s:m5r.s=
x." y? *s*£5s,5s$ss*~ $6 _5 _m:'s' ':
.. ,,. . .
.

2
r 1

5* I.
. ..... ...
..s= .. .  .  g.
§?;.g/’¢.s:5..ssss*. rsﬂrw" $"».'v?’.$.’-$’5;5$
.
.

“*~‘*-‘:::E:::
..

.
.........

wig,  .55.. .:.,;;'¢ ﬁn

, . . . x
,.

u r

......
““=§E3.§§
-~*\\u

..
§:”’”’»£§EE§§‘§§§;’ ~ '
7,¢.~’*/’ . ’ =

\.\\ .3.
\

.5S"§‘*“
\ N \
\‘3¥o‘vt

\\
\\\
N“
N as
V‘. V‘
.
~'-tz:Eit......t '- K
V. ti... W. *.\.!.\.|. .

N\\\\ ~. ~.
~.~s~.~.\3‘.§'.$""""

. «* ;
_,s.... ,.....

.* HI! #5-

\~. w:-*-
:$I.\\.-.§~.%‘
'\N\‘.'.\ 5:‘. __§

ﬁns.

\‘.‘t
\. ti-
‘.
t...
‘ASQ
\ 2
z N -K
at ‘at =: ‘ta
&‘ to
\\K
. R§\\\§%Vt‘
\:l\
K‘.
.
tliiiiﬁffitttttt.
.w.........-.-.

t; .
. .
, , -,. .
. ~.u”
' ’ -§$..ss. . éiésiééiés 334$: * *
3'.-.;rr_.-rz/I 4'.-1.’:/:.;;_Z-.y.g'/J_a _

-.-.-.-. \.

SINGING IN THE RAIN 

- ,,.,.,,, , _. ,  ' . WI’. A dutiful rugby parent sticks it out at Saturday afternoon ’s soggy game.
Sydney 24-12. H orusmz H OVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

The Generals smashed Hampden-

Classof 1999 celebrates 250th in styl

BY HILLARY COOMBS

— MANAGING EDITOR
Hey, juniors, were you jealous when upperclassmen

snapped up all the 1996 Mock Convention commemora-
tive bottles of Jack Daniels Kentucky Whiskey?

Now’s your chance to own an even rarer slice of Wash-
ington and Lee history — a ring produced exclusively for
the 250th class.

This distinctive limited-edition treasure can be yours
for only $275 (women’s styles only).

These commemorative masterpieces are for sale only
to the university’s undergraduate and law classes of 1999.

Call 1-800-355-1145 now to order!

' “To my knowledge, nothing like this has ever been done
before,” said Neil Penick, director of the 250th Obser-
vance. “I can tell you for a fact that it wasn’t done for the
bicentennial class.”

The rings come in yellow or white gold, are set with
the university crest and have the 250th Observance logo

Picking up the pieces:

on the left shank and the proﬁles of George Washington

and Robert E. Lee from the school seal on the right shank.
The idea of a special ring came from the three-member

student committee of the 250th Observance.

“It’s a special occasion,” committee member Nate -

Tencza said. “We thought it would be neat to have
something a little different while still maintaining
tradition.”

The Campus Committee for the 250th Observance
chose Milestone Marketing Inc., a company based
in Exton, Penn., to design and manufacture the com-
memorative rings. Milestone is one of two compa-
nies that come to W&L each year to market their
class rings. '

“We felt that a smaller, local company would give
us something more unique,” Tencza said. “We didn’t
want to just get a generic special-occasion-type
ring.” I

Milestone will take ring orders at the University

Adams moves on after fire

1 , JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
I I MSHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Bridgewater in Par
Weekend mud n
PAGE4

hi

L-EXrNGToN.vA so
I at 199‘?

 
 
  

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
NOVEMBER 3, 1997

anky’s flouts
ire regulations,
gets burned I

BY HILLARY COOMBS
————————— MANAGING EDITOR
The Lexington Fire Department
responded in moments to a Sunday
morning grease ﬁre at Spanky’s Res-
taurant and Delicatessen. Their quick
response wouldn’t have been neces-
sary if the restaurant had complied
with Lexington’s building code.
“Any commercial kitchen must
have a range hood over all its equip-
ment,” said Bill Blatter, Lexington’s
building and zoning administrator.

 Inside should be a chemical tire sup-
pression system.”

Such a system is automatically ac-
tivated by the heat of a grease ﬁre. It
immediately shuts off all appliances
in the kitchen and sprays out a ﬁre
retardant chemical, smothering the
blaze.

“Sometime within last few months
[Spanky’ s] had installed a range hood
without getting a permit,” Blatter said.
“But it didn’t include a ﬁre suppres-
sion system.”

Because Spanky’s was already in’

business when the building code was
enacted, they were initially exempt
from installing such a hood under a
“grandfather clause” written into the
code. However, wherrthe restaurant
installed a new hood, it should have
had a ﬁre suppression system.

“Had they had a ﬁre suppression
system, the ﬁre should have been out
before we got there,” said John
Mutispaugh, the ﬁre department’s in-
vestigator. “As it was we ended up
having to put the ﬁre out with dry
chemical extinguishers.”

Mike Ogier, Spanky’s manager,
refused to comment on the
restaurant’s failure to comply with the
building code.

He did explain what happened
Sunday.

“It was a normal day,” Ogier said.
“I came in and turned everything on
and went to the restroom. When I
came back, the fryer was on fire.”

Ogier called 911, then grabbed a
ﬁre extinguisher and tried to put the
ﬁre out.

“It was lucky that [the ﬁre depart-
ment] did get here as soon as they
did,” Ogier said. “Otherwise we might
have lost more equipment.”

The ﬁre started around 8:45 a.m.
The ﬁre department arrived Spanky’s
by 8:50 a.m. and had the ﬁre out soon
afterward.

The exact cause of the ﬁre is un-
known.

“The manager said they had been
having trouble with deep fryer,”
Mutispaugh said. “Whether it shorted
and caught the grease on ﬁre, I don’t
know.”

The ﬁre. damaged two 220-volt
lines electric lines in the kitchen and
three 110-volt lines going to various
appliances, and did an unknown
amount of damage to one panel box.

The fryer and a toaster were de-
stroyed. The toaster has already been
replaced. A new fryer has been or-
dered. According to Ogier, the fryer
that caught ﬁre was new and had only
been installed about two months ago.

Mutispaugh had not ﬁnished. the
fire report and was unable to make an
estimate on the cost of the damage to
Spanky’s.

Spanky’s was allowed to reopened
Ti1esdayat5 p.m afterinstalling aﬁre
suppression system and repairing the
damaged wiring. Blatter inspected
both, but did not cite the restaurant for
violating the building code.

' “In trying to understand what hap-
pened, I don’t feel there was any will
deceive me about it,” Blatter said. “It
was a misunderstanding, and [the ci-
tation] wouldn’t have stood up. I
didn’t feel it was worth the eﬁbrt.”

Spanky’s was closed for lunch and
dinner on Sunday and Monday and
lunch on Tuesday. Ogier estimates the
restaurant lost approximately $6,000

GD SEEFIREPAGE2

e Cancer forces

BY ERIKA PRossER
"“:‘—“** STAFF WRITER

Yesterday marked the ﬁve-week
anniversary of the day Assistant En-
glish Professor Adams’ house burned
down.

Adams had lived for several
years in the house, which was built
by Washington and Lee students in
the 1960s. The ﬁre started around
1 pm. on Sunday, September 28. It
was probably caused by electrical
problems, but investigators told
Adams that the house had been so
badly damaged that the cause was

“hard to ﬁgure out.”

Two days before the ﬁre, Adams’s
application for a loan for a new home
had been approved. He lived with col-
leagues for a few weeks, then ﬁnally
moved into his new home on Jack-
son Street last Thursday. His new
house was designed by famous archi-
tect Frank Lloyd Wright.

Adams lost valuable material for
his second academic book project in
the fire, but has already [begun
reaquiring the research and returning
to the project.

Adams has stayed busy with other

work. Over the weekend of Oc-
tober 25, he attended a conference
in Waco, Texas, where a great
collection of Browning works is
kept. He also visited the Branch

Davidian compound and brought

back a piece of wood from the
rubble. He later joked that he

sympathized slightly with David

Koresh’s losses after suffering
from his own fire.

Adams lost most of his clothes
and belongings in the fire. “It
would be unseemly for me to talk
about how in debt I am,” he said.

Bookstore on Nov. 5 and 6 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
The company will sell its usual line of W&L class
rings as well as the commemorative ring.

“We thought [the commemorative ring] was a
great idea only in that it was another option,” Penick
said. “In other words, we didn’t want to shove this
down anyone’s throat.”

Both companies offer an interest-free installment
payment plan, and rings can also be ordered through
the mail or over the phone.

“The 250th is going to be celebrated in so many
ways: big public celebrations, visiting dignitaries
and parties,” Penick said. “This is one of the most
important commemorative items because it’s lim-
ited.”

Penick said all profits from the sale of the 250th
Observance ring will go to Milestone. The univer-
sity and the Committee on the 250th Observance will
not receive any proceeds from the sales.

 

THE 250TH OBSERVANCE class ring is available
only to the law and undergraduate classes of I 999.
HOI.LlSER H0 VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

projectionist to
surrender hobby

BY SARAH MELDRUM

STAFF WRITER

A small group of students found the Troubadour the-
ater empty and dark when they went to see “Looking for
Richar ” Friday, Sept. 26. They were among the few that
hadn’t heard the news that all ﬁlm screenings were can-
celed. Floyd Lynch, the ﬁlm society’s projectionist, has
cancer, and is no longer able to enjoy his favorite hobby.

“He’s a terminal patient under hospice care,” said his
wife, Dora Lynch. “I'm fortunate I have a daughter-in-
law who is a registered nurse.”

Mrs. Lynch’s daughter-in-law has greatly helped care
for her husband, who otherwise would have gone to a
nursing home.

Lynch is former head of data processing for the carpet
division of Burlington Industries. He loved being a pro-
jectionist.

“It was his paying hobby,” said Mrs. Lynch.

Lynch was so proﬁcient at operating the projection
system that there was no choice but to cancel the screen-
ings.

“The projection equipment is very complicated,”
Film Society President Marisa Frost said. “That ma-
chine is such a monster, and would be too much to
explain to a student.”

“He was your regular sweet older guy,” Frost
said. “He always came down before the shows to
chat and share his opinion of the ﬁlm.”

“We will really miss having him at the screen-
ings,” Meredith Welch, vice-president of the film
society, said. “His commentaries on the films were
always very enlightening.”

Film society screenings resume with “Looking

(D SEE HOBBY PAGE 2

 

 

NOVEMBER 3, 1997

=5

  I1€WS_
Computer Iogins

get face-I ift
Changes are more than cosmetic

BY JOSHUA Hi‘:r.LiNoA
SPECIAL TO THE RING-TUM PHI

Over the past few days, University Computing installed a new
program that will improve the network login process.

The new program, named SFLogin 95, allows students in computer
labs to log into to the W&L network by typing their user-ID alone,
instead of having to enter their class year after their user-ID.

This change does more than improve appearance. SFLogin 95
uses a search process to automatically identify the full network con-
text, or user group, of each user. This eliminates the need for the class
year and allows faculty to use lab machines without remembering their
network context.

SFLogin 95 improves network security too. It erases the last user
from the screen, so the machine’s next user can’t identify the previous
user. By automatically routing each user to his or her group, it also
makes administrative systems off-limits to those without access privi-
leges.

Finally, SFLogin 95 integrates the login process with Windows 95.
Computers will no longer tell students that they have not logged on at
that machine before or display other annoying messages.

This upgrade marks an effort by University Computing to make the
dent Computing Coordinator said. “I know it makes some minor adjust-
ments but it makes the login process simpler and quicker.”

Van Assendelft cautioned students to pay attention to the change. Re-
peated efforts to enter a class year in SFLogin 95 can interfere with a
student’s ability to login successfully.

“The first time you enter your year, it ignores it,” he said. “But if you
insist on it, you will have problems logging in.”

So far, students seem to have mixed reactions to the latest change.

When informed of SFLogin 95’s new features, junior Dan Hilley said
simply, “Sweet.” 3

Others displayed cases of technological whiplash. “As soon as we un-
derstand the procedure, they change it,” said Elizabeth Richey, a junior.

Computers in Newcomb, Leybum, Reid, and the Commerce School all
received the upgrade to lntranetware and SFLogin 95. The Science Center
and Gaines labs will get the upgrades soon.

Due to licensing restrictions, SFLogin 95 is not available for students
on their personal computers.

FIRE

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

OPEN AUDITIONS FOR CRIMES OF THE HEART,
ALL ARE WELCOME

The W&L Theater Department will be holding open auditions for the winter term pro-
duction of Beth Hen1ey’s comedy “Crimes of the Heart.”

Auditions are Tues., Nov. 4 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Keller Theatre. There are parts
available for four women and two men, and all are invited to audition. Scripts may be
borrowed from the Theatre Department secretary (463-8001).

Directed by J .D. Martinez, Crimes of the Heart is a warm-hearted, zany and bril-
liantly imaginative story about the plight of three young Mississippi sisters betrayed
by their passions.

TICKETS ON SALE FOR RICHMOND BALLET, $3 FOR‘
W&L COMMUNITY

The Lenfest Series at W&L will open its season with the Richmond Ballet on Nov. 10
and 1 1 at 8 p.m. in the Keller Theatre. Tickets are sale now at the Lenfest Box Office (463-
8000). '

The program features two dance masterpieces of the twentieth century. George
Balanchine’s Concerto Barocca, set to Bach’s Concerto in D minor for two violins and John
Butler’s Carmen Burana, set to the stirring music of Carl Orff. Tickets are $3 for students,
faculty and staff.

UNIVERSITY-SHENANDOAH SYMPHONY ORCHES-
TRA OPENS SEASON NOV. 8

The W&L University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra will open its 1997-98 season
with a performance on Sat., Nov. 8, at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center. Jose Ferreira Lobo from
Porto, Portugal, will be the guest conductor. The concert is open to the public, free of
charge, but tickets are required.

The program includes music by Tchaikovsky, Mendelssohn and Dovark. The repertoire
for the 70-piece ensemble this year will include performance of the Symphony in D minor
by French composer Cesar Franck, a performance of Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue by the
world-renowned Romanian pianist Mihai Ungureanu, and ﬁlm music by Max Steiner.

DAVIS MERRITT TO BE KEYNOTE SPEAKER FOR
JOURNALISM ETHICS INSTITUTE

to $8,000 in revenue.

French fries will be the only things missing from the menu while Spanky’s
waits for its new fryer to arrive. Although many of the restaurant’s other
appetizers are usually deep-fried as well, Ogier says they will be prepared by
other methods.

Ogier was the only person in Spanky’s at the time of the ﬁre. He was
treated for smoke inhalation at Stonewall Jackson Hospital and released.

®HOBBY

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

for Richard” on Nov. 7 and 8 at 7:30 p.m. Carol Calkins, University
Center Coordinator, organized the search for a new projectionist.
The efforts yielded local resident Todd Owens and Andrew Martin.
Owens will be the head projectionist and Martin will be the backup.
They will show “Everyone Says I Love You” the next weekend and
“In the Company of Men” Dec. 5 and 6.

“Koyla,” the last film that Lynch projected, was a good movie for
his final showing, the Lynches agreed.

“It was such a wonderful movie,” Mrs. Lynch said.

Davis Merritt, senior editor of The Wichita Eagle, will be the keynote speaker for W&L’s
24th annual Institute on the Ethics of Journalism Nov. 7-8. Merritt will give a public lecture
on Fri., Nov. 7 at 4:30 p.m. on “Disconnecting from Detachment: Six Arguments for an
Ethic of Journalistic Purposefulness.” The lecture will be given in Room 327 of the Will-
iams School of Commerce.

The Journalism Ethics Institute is part of W&L’s program in applied ethics and
Society and the Professions, which brings nationally recognized scholars to the cam-
pus to engage in classroom and public discussions on ethics in the ﬁelds of law, medi-
cine, business andjoumalism.

W&L ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES SERIES PRESENTS
TALK BY H.T. ODUM

Howard T. Odum, graduate research professor emeritus in environmental engineering at
the University of Florida, will speak at W&L on Tues., Nov. 11, at 7:30 p.m. Odum will
speak on “Environmental Resources and the Limits to Infonnation.” The talk will be in the I
Leybum Library’s Northern Auditorium and is open to the public. Odum is the fonner
director of the Center for Wetlands in Florida. He has assembled a wide body of research on
ecology. ecological economics and environment engineering. His recent work discusses
“energy” as a way of accounting for ﬂows into and out of a system, such as a river or
wetland. -

The Envionmental Studies Program at W&L has been established at W&L to raise aware-
ness of the environment with activities such as guest speakers and colloquia.

This Week’s Weather:

ALUMS SPEAK ABOUT SEXUAL ASSAULT EXPERI-
Wednesday I

ENCES THURSDAY

W&L alums Lyrae van Clief-Stafanon and Betsy Kleiner will share their personal stories
of coping with sexual assault Thursday at 7 p.m. in Science Center Room A214. Men and
women are invited to come and listen and talk about the roles of communications and re-
spect in gender relations. The event is sponsored by LIFE, Women’s Forum and Chi Psi. A,
reception will follow afterwards.

Thursday

Sunday

Saturday

          

High: 62°
Low: 40°

High: 54°
Low: 30°

High: 54°
Low: 43°

58°
Low: 38°

High: High:

Low:

60°
38°

 

-Compiled by Kathryn Mayurnik

 

ubwoy andwiches       x <14/reg grew,

and olods

      
 

 453 E. Nelson 31.
Lexington, V0
_5A}43-3322

.3:

W wk 36 ond$l2/Hr.

Leave name and
phone no. with

  
    
 
 

’2‘.;’:’.‘i..gwarmer  

If you had a choice, would.n’t you choose fresh, hot  _‘__ 

tilt Sﬁwwi 

that’s been left sitting under heat_,lai_nps?. Then choose Subway ‘  ,1
where you can get our Subway  I‘ I " , ' , - -3 . _',,
7  J       b      it     UNIVERSITYARTWORKS
I :>h1€l:v:ni( 8c Chrc sub hot and  on read  j  . _ 

www.siibvm_v.cnIn

'.i'l’i:’i

. ]-:-¥'“ 1 i...‘ .; 4 \w». |.|l< «- lm

Oi 463-4353

 

 

    

i 0

NOVEMBER 5, 1997 PAGE 5

F .
I .
I I I

' O
“ .

BY LIZ DEHER & WM HARDIE W81 E sadness, hopelessness and guilt; the inability to to 20 questions about the frequency with which

think; and suicidal tendencies. Transitory feelings they experienced feelings of depression. V

R “A1ways alone in the midst ofpeople, 1 return of depression can be totally normal reactions to The screening was successful, and Counseling

stress, but the long-term or recurrent presence of
four or more of these symptoms in combination is
cause for concern.

Since self-diagnosis of depression can be elu-
sive, Washington and Lee University Counseling
Services decided to offer the W&L community the
opportunity to be professionally evaluated for de-
pression. Oct. 9 was National Depression Screen-
ing Day, and Counseling Services and Peer Coun-

Services plan to do it again next year.

' According to Dean Anne Schroer-Lamont, 18
people were screened, including undergraduates,
law students, staff members and family members of
staff. Roughly 40 percent of those screened were “
clinically depressed.

“I think a lot of people came in to see where they
stood and were pleasantly surprised to realize that
they were just having a down day,” said Catherine

home in order to give myselfup, with unspeakable
melancholy, to my dreams. How do I regard life
today? I give way to thoughts of death.” Ifthe
words of a 17-year-old Napoleon Bonaparte strike

It a familiar chord, you may be depressed.
Depression is one of the most common mental
illnesses, especially among young adults. Some
estimate that as many as one in ﬁve women and
one in fiﬁeen men experiences clinical depression

“ during his 1jfel;'irne_ selors administered tests for depression in the Uni- Haddock, senior, alter helping to administer the test.
Depression can aiso be diﬁienlt to diagnose, versity Center. Those who were diagnosed depressed had the
signs ineindeg 3 enange in eating and sleeping The tests were designed to determine whether a option of a 15-minute counseling session with ei-
patterns; headaches and stornaenaehes; 1oss of person exhibits symptoms of depression and the tlierDean Schroer-Lamont orDr. James Worth Most
4 interest in life; fatigue; feelings of worthlessness, S€V61'i’iY Oflhose Symptoms. Test-takers responded - .
(I) See DOWN page 4 ‘
Want to raise your grade-point average?
‘ .
Phi Eta Sigma members
‘ lth ' t
‘~ BY Km” TONE” Sm? W studying and be _well rested.” . l '
Classical music entertains Michele Connors, along with moti-
aities are over. Weekend getaways are things of the vating her to do well. She prefers Mozart to accompany her
past. And, you’ve ﬁnally canceled the premium movie readings.
l channels. , Brown nose.
After midterm grades and a visit from the parental unit, you Sure, other students might call you names and laugh, but are
have decided (been forced) to study*. Now before foreheads they members of Phi Eta Sigma? Going in and talking to the
start to crimch, migraines take hold and ﬁngernails are bitten to professor doesn’t just add a few brownie points in the grade
the quick, RELAX -- you can do it! As a service to its readers, book, it can actually teach you something. Ask questions and . _
,4 The Ring-Tum Phi asked the experts how to tackle the daunting ‘ show your professors outlines and rough drafts, said Jordan v 
task of studying for success. Bulger. *3 A -
The following study tips were gathered from the new ini- “These are the people who are trying to teach you,” he. said. THE BREAKFAST CLUB i S one of;/V&L s mosipopuia, bimdS_ PHOTO Br GUYMOLYNEUX
tiates of Phi Eta Sigma, the sophomore honorary society. These “One on one never hurts.” ' _ _ -
studious sophomores gave advice on everything from what to Choose the right time. Breakfast  COITIGS t0 the PaVIIlOn and Students are
‘I write to what to eat. Follow their advice, and you too can earn “Study when you study best,” Sula Jacobs answers simply. . .
an A**. She is a morning person whose best study hours are between
Write it all down. 5:30 to 7:30 a.m. (butaskher how early she goes tobed)."  I e e 
Writing everything down on notecards helps Brittany Ginny Jernigan is just the opposite. She’s a night person who
‘ Ahlstrom orgaruze, learn and remember. It also keeps her from hates the constant interruptions during the day.“ Once every- BY SYBIL PRIME & LIZ DEn_m This weekend, relive the Reagan era when the
getting belund. one goes to bed, she said, I finally have Sim, WRHER ,
Shannon Bell has a more sophisticated some peace and quiet.” . . . Breakfast Club Comes to .town' .The pgpular 805
system She makes Study guides byrec0py_ ‘ 6 Avoid tests _ Remember a time when the most pressing thing on cover bandwas last seen in Lexington in late Sep-
ing her notes in two columns. On the left Just don’t take tests is Jennifer Fisher’s yollrmmdwasthenumber ofhokis lnyourjeans? when tember atP1KA and SPE The ﬁatemuy basements
g side, she writes down what the professor I do work all day philosophy. Of course, this means she has  83:?’ (D .
said in question form, with the answers on b etween classes so 1 tips for writing papers. The right mindset is q gm ' ‘ 386 CLUB page 4
the right side. Bell keeps up with the study key for Fisher. Her computer makes monkey,
guide throughout the term, so at test time don‘? /’laVe to Cram frog and other jungle sounds when she turns
she can use it to quiz herself. at n ight it on. “They get me all kinds of psyched for
5 Key words and phrases help trigger writing papers,” she said.
Nancy Reinhart’s grey matter, so she makes Of course, most W&L students have no
a list and tests herself until she can iden- -Brandon  way around the test-taking, so these Phi Eta

tify all the test material with the key words.
Just get it done.

“I do work all day between classes so I
don’t have to cram at night,” said Brandon Chalk. He actually
finds he can study amidst all the distractions of his. room.

Jason Nichols suggests the library. “Lock yourself in a car-

  
 
 

 

 

, , Sigmas contributed a few secrets for the day
of the test.

, Both Connors and Nichols have lucky
pencils. Nichols used long-terrn thinking to choose his charm, a
mechanical pencil. Connors, on the other hand, prefers the tradi-
tional pencil.

comes to the

Lenfest Center

‘ 7M '1'} Ii: P1 11 H

The Lcnfcst Scrics at W&L will open its sci -
son with thc Richmond Ballct on Nov. 10 and 11
at 8pm in thc Kcllcr Thcatrc.

r rel,” he said. “It motivates you to do your homework so you “It’s kind of a limited supply,” said Connors, referring to her Fciltll "Cd in thc I) |'0'.5|‘="" =1 "C “'35” ’l°“‘5 "ll
ean ﬁnish and go home,” _ ’ lucky slaridard grapliiio “So it has to be a really’ roally’ really the 20th ccntury--Jolm Butlcr's Carmina
“Them are SO many Other things I0 be doing With your time important test.” Bu rana and Balanchine's Concci1o Barocco.
at W&L,” said Ashley Buck, whose secret of success is “just Nichols has another ritual to help himout. He always untucks "F-=10“ 0Wl<‘St‘ “’0|’kS«" S*'."54||1i-WC‘“"°W"‘
gt’/(ting around 10 it.” the back of shirt, leaving the front neatly in place. Stoncr Winslctt. “cxhibits the path ofcvolution
‘ Eat, sleep and be merry. “I did it orioo before a test and did really Well,” he said, ﬁgup of ballot in this ccntury, one which has U! the
“A quiet place with chocolate” is Heather Reid’s answer. ing it must have helped him out in some way. “W” twill"!-i~ l'“°"S°- “'l""-‘|"‘°“‘l P“ "l"‘l "f*"‘°‘
She always studies with some form of chocolate near by, prefer- Beanie Babies provide support for Jacobs. She uses the little i"l"ll.V 5" 1|“ 0f dank‘? hN0|'."-”
ably Reese’s Peanut Butter cup. ereatnres to have something to no1d on to, in the same manner a Carmina Bu ra na is a thcatrc piccc based on
, Jordan Btilger takes a more serious approach to his brain stress ball works. She chooses diiferent animals from her collec- pocms disco\'crc(l in the library of thc Bavarian
food. “Eat as though you’re an athlete,” he suggests. “It’s a tion depending on the subject. Bcncdiktbcurcn M on; 'tcry and set to thc stir-
competition and you need to be set, mind and body.” Of course, superstition is not for everyone. “"15 "1 "550 0f C?!” 0' T-
Dr. Thomes Nye, professor of biology, suggests proteins in “I don’t use luck,” said Stephanie McKnight. “I either know A """““l"“ "f l-W‘ “""“ '1" 5"'~‘355 3"" |’"'
the morning rather than carbohydrates. Bell ﬁnds this helpful, it or I don’t_” ‘ cms by minst rcls and monks who had frccd them-
u especially before tests «I am decidedly ami_liioky charms,” said Roslmi Nirody, ro_ sclycs of the monastic discipline. they arc secu-
Sleep is a common tool used by these honor students. ferring to “charms of luck,’’ but also expanding on the cereal. "W "*'"“"'"‘*"‘ 5“""°d° Th" "illlc" " "l’“"'*'*“
“I’m big on making sure I have a decent night’s sleep,” said “They just use way too many marshmallows. They keep adding lillld-*'t‘=|IK' 0f "‘0"C"‘<""~ "Oi 3' |‘k‘i|ll“lt‘ I’0|1| =|.\'1|'
Leah Schaefer. “I would rather forgo some them to make it more appealing, but ovemually it isjust going to of thc pocms. Thc p rologuc bi-moans thc
be all marshmallows arid morors going to be no merit to that c\'crclIan;:,in;_r, fate of man who can soar onc mo-
! ooroalj’ " mcnt only to comc crashing: down thc ncxt.
when it comes down to it, yoiiiiisl need to loam Carmina Bu rana is dividcd into thrcc sec-
tlio material in ordorio ace mo test. lions: thc fi ‘ 1 part sings of thc delights of
“Ifyou really wam to learn what yourro do- spring; thc sccond cclcbratcs thc plc- surc. c.\—
irig,” said Matt Mills, “mm mo Ty olfl” tra\a;:,anccs. and dcspai rs ofthc tavcrn; and thc
ll" third is a scrics of love poc Thc cpiloguc
* Study (as defined by Random cchocs the tone of prologuc.
House diciio,m,.y)_- application ofihe Conccrto Barocco. sct to the music of Bach's
mimiio the acquisition oﬂoiowiedge’ Conccrto in D minor for Two Violins. is dc-
a as by reading’ investigation, or ,.e_ scribcd by Balanchinc as tryingto “intcrcst thc
ﬂeet,-0,,‘ audicncc only by its dancing, its treatment of
music.just as Baroquc art and architecture in-
ane This is not a gua,.a,iree’ the tcrcst pcoplc not bccausc of their subjccts. but
author and The Ri,ig_Tu,,i Phi ,.eii,,_ bccausc ofthc ilccorativc treatments that cm-
‘ quish all responsibility in the outcome b°"i5h‘~‘d 'th"5° 5“l’.lC 35-"

 

of your grades. If a method fails, blame
the honor students for their lousy ad-
vice!

Tickcts for thc Richmond Ballct arc on salc
now at thc Lcnfcst Box Officc. Thc pricc is S3
for studcnts, faculty _aml stall’.

 

PAGE 4

REsuLTs

Football (3-5)
Sat. .0 Bridgewater 10
W&L 22

Volleyball (16-9)

Thu.: E. Mennonite 0
W&L 3
Sat.: Greensboro 3
W&L 1
Women’s Soccer (14-2)
Wed.: W&L 10
E&H 0
Sat.: RM 0
W&L 1
Men’s Soccer (7-2)
Tues.: Roanoke 2
W&L 1
Sat.: Denison 2
W&L 1‘

AHEAD

Football
at Emory & Henry

Volleyball
Sat.: ODAC Toumy
@ Hollins

Sat.:

Men’s Soccer
Tues.: ODAC Tourny
1st Round (TBA)

Cross Country
Sat: ODAC Toumy

  sports

NOVEMBER 3, 1997

Generals poach Eagles, 22-10

Forcing four Bridgewater turnovers during a Parents’ Day mudbath, the
Generals’ defe'nsive squad unleashed its beast

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
"’j“““‘"j“"‘ STAFF \5(/RITER

ed by an outstanding defensive
I performance, the Generals
made it a happy Parents’
Weekend as they defeated
Bridgewater 22-10 Saturday at Wil-
son Field. Bridgewater held a slight
edge in most of the key statistics but
the combination of solid defense, key
kick-returns, and early turnovers
helped the Generals get the win.

Things didn’t get off to a great start
for the Generals as quarterback Chris-
tian Batchellor was intercepted by
Bridgewater defensive back Richard
Glovier, on the ﬁrst play of the game.
Batchellor tried to make a difﬁcult
pass on the run while being pursued
by a Bridgewater lineman and wound
up throwing a ﬂoater, which was eas-
ily picked off.

But Bridgewater would quickly
return the favor as Generals defensive
back Ryan Fletemeyer intercepted
Eagles quarterback Brith Osinkosky
after the ball bounced off
Fletemeyer’s teammate, John
Bennazzi. Fletemeyer returned the
interception 39 yards to the
Bridgewater 23, setting up a Chris-
tian Bachellor 1 yd QB sneak for a
touchdown. On the ensuing extra
point attempt, the kick was blocked
but the Generals’ David Ritchey was
able to recover the ball in the endzone
for a two-point conversion and the
Generals took an 8-0 lead.

The teams then exchanged punts
for a good portion of the first half. The
Eagles failed to capitalize on a scor-
ing opportunity early in the second
quarter when kicker Michael Padgett
missed a 22-yard ﬁeld goal. It ap-
peared that the ball was partially
blocked. Bridgewater did manage to

put points on the board late in the sec-
ond half as Padgett booted a 21-yard
ﬁeld goal with one second left, to cut
the Generals’ lead to 8-3.

Early in the third quarter, the Gen-
erals’ Harry Brookby returned a punt
27 yards to the Eagles 39 yardline set-
ting up another Washington and Lee
touchdown. After tailback Hanley
Sayers exploded for 14 yards to the
Eagles 3-yard line, fullback Scott
Moses ran it in for the touchdown.
The touchdown was followed by a
Batchellor run for the two-point con-
version and the Generals’ lead was in-
creased to 16-3.

Bridgewater refused to roll over
and the Eagles attempted to mount a
comeback in the fourth quarter. On a
4th and 8 play Eagles’ punter Von
Lewis faked the kick and ran the ball
28 yards to the W&L 24-yard line.
The Eagles converted on the fake as
tailback Colby Allen ran it in from the
3-yard line, cutting the lead to 16-10.

But once again the Generals’ de-
fense stepped up and got the job done.
With five minutes left in the game and
the Eagles driving, Matt Luca -recov-
ered Colby Allen fumble and ran it
back to the Bridgewater 30. This
would prove to be a game—saving play
as the Generals went up 22-10 aﬁer
tailback Wesley Sayers rushed 5-
yards for a touchdown.

“The ball just popped out of
Allen’s hands and I was just right
there,” said Luca. “ I was just in the
right place.” Luca was a large part of
the Generals’ solid defensive effort:
he was in on 11 tackles, recovered a
fumble, and also had a big sack on a
crucial third down play. But Luca was
quick to point out that it was a team
effort. “It was a great effort by the
entire defense; the whole defense was

TAKING A BREAK, the defensive unit recieves praise from Head Coach Miriello following their shutting down of
the Brigewater offensive attack. The Generals’ defense forced four turnovers and held the Eagles to 274 yards on
64 plays. Despite the rain and mud, the team enjoyed their thrid victory in front of a capacity Parents’ Day crowa’.

HoL1.1srE1e H()VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

in on it,” he said.

Defensive Back Ryan Fletemeyer,
who came up with the big interception
early in the ﬁrst half, was also pleased
with the defensive effort. “The defense
did a great job,” he said. “ We really
shut them down, we were all playing a
little harder because of Parents’ Week-
end.” Most of the players seemed to
agree with Fletemeyer. They do seem
to play a little harder for the games dur-
ing Homecoming and Parents’ Week-
end, and the Generals won both of those
games.

The Generals have 2 games remain-‘

STEAMING IN THE COLD, members of the Generals rugby team await
their chance to crush a Hampden-Sydney tiger. In they end, they did,
defeating the Tigers by a score of 1 7-12. 1‘10LI.lS7ER Ho VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

3

Beginner Walk Trot
Susanah Carr — 4th
Meredith Welch — 2nd
Intermediate Equitation
on the Flat

Christine Starer - 4th
Intermediate Equitation
over Fences

Lydia Nichols — 4th
Christine Starte - 4th

The W&L RidingTeam

Results at Virginia Intermont

Open Equitation on the
Flat

Lydia Nichols — 2nd
Britta Gaffey - 5th

Open Equitation over
Fences

Britta Gaffey — 4th

OVERALL SCHOOL
PLACEMENT - 6th

ing. Next week they travel to Emory:

and Henry before returning home the
following week to face Swarthmore. So
now the question for the Generals is can
they win their last two games and make
it to the .500 mark? The Generals seem

to be conﬁdent that they can as they
will go in to the ﬁnal 2 games having
won 3 of their last 4. “I think we can
do it,” added Fletemeyer. “We’re play-
ing really well right now and have a
good shot at it.”

 

Women’s soccer season
ends in the ODAC semis

BY FRANCES GROEERG
——-mm‘- STAFF Want-‘R

raditions die hard at Washing
I ton and Lee. Tailgating lives
on-, the honor system still
works, and the women’s soccer team
still fail to capture the ODAC title. The
Generals, after shutting out Sweet
Briar 2-0 in the ﬁrst round, were de-
feated by six-time defending champi-
ons Randolph Macon, by a score of
2-1.
But W&L did not give up without
a ﬁght. The Generals fought into two
tough overtime periods before the
Yellow Jackets were able to score and
seal the victory. Randolph Macon
scored ﬁrst, with a goal from Beth
Kirby at the 44:30 mark. W&L got a
goal from sophomore Ginny Jemigan
at 63: 13 to even the game. The score
remained tied until the second over-
time period, when R-MC Kirby scored
her second goal of the game. Fresh-
man Lauren Harris was credited with
six saves for the game.
W&L’s ﬁrst round game in the
ODACs against Sweet Briar turned
out much more favorably for the Gen-

erals, as they pulled out a 2-0 victory.
Junior co-captain Karin Treese scored
W&L’s ﬁrst goal of the game midway
through the ﬁrst half, picking up a re-
bound from co-captain Claire Bow-
ers and blasting it past SBC goalie
Carol Skriloff. With 23 goals this sea-
son, Treese shattered both the record
for goals in one season and for all-
time goals.

Freshman Amanda McDermott,
with her third astounding goal of the
season, sealed the victory with a
rocket of a shot. The Generals outshot
Sweet Briar 35-0, and won 12 comer
kicks to Sweet Briar’s zero. W&L
was so dominant in the middle that
goalies Lauren Harris and Stephanie
McKnight did not have to make a
single save to record their seventh
shutout of a season.

Though this year’s season ended
with a loss, the women’s soccer team
can be consoled by the fact that for
most of them, there is always next
year. Of the 22 players on this year’s
squad, 18 will return in ’98 for another
run at the ODAC championship. It
was a great season, and the ’97 Gen-
erals have nothing to regret.

£679 Jock Shorts

- Men’s soccer loses two more OT battles -
- Volleyball wins its sixth straight -

Men’s Soccer

The regular season drew to a dis-
mal close for the men’s soccer team
Saturday as they surrendered their

, third straight 2-1 overtime loss, this

time to non-ODAC contender
Denison College. The loss seemed to
epitomize the season for the Gener-
als, who seemingly had been on the
brink of glory all season long, but con-
sistently fell short. The Generals will
play their first game in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Touma-
ment on Tuesday, with a ﬁnal chance
to turn their season around.

The game on Saturday against
Denison was a messy one that quickly
deteriorated into a muddy game of

<DSeeSOGCERpage5

Volleyball

The Generals volleyball team won
its third straight ODAC regular sea-
son championship on Thursday. They
beat Eastern Mennonite 15-13, 15-9,
15-12. Both teams entered the match
with an 8-1 conference mark, and the
win propelled the Generals to the no.
1 seed for this weekend’s ODAC tour-
nament. Following that victory, the
squad hosted their non-conference foe
Greensboro, to whom they lost in the
Emory Tournament in Oétober. This
time, the Generals concluded the regu-
lar season with a 16-14, 9-15, 15-8,
15-11 victory.

As beﬁtting a big game, both teams
entered Thursday’s match excited.

$15 See VOLLEYBALL page 5

 

  

1! NOVEMBER 3, 1997

CE) DOWN

people't'ook" the option. Schroer-Lamont and Worth
advised_ people as to whether they should seek
further treatment.

“We have caught some situations that might have
gotten worse if we hadn’t done the screening,” said
Schroer-Lamont.

Depression is on the rise nationally. Schroer-Lamont at-
tributes this to the high stress-level in modern society. De-
pression oﬁen surfaces in college, when new situations and
pressures increase student's stress. Alcohol can exacerbate
the situation. \

Everyone gets depressed when something major goes
wrong in his life. But some people ﬁnd it harder than oth-
ers to get back on an even keel. These are the people who
are at risk to depression.

Several factors contributeto such problems, including
genetics and probably brain chemistry. But many psy-
chologists believe that the way people think about their
problems is particularly important. A person who is sus-
ceptible to depression is likely also to be the type to blame
failures and problems on fundamental and enduring as-
pects of himself. And three times more women than men
are diagnosed as depressed.

Counseling Services and Peer Counselors are available
to help students who feel overwhelmed.

“Here at W&L we have two professional counselors,”
said Haddock, “and I think that if anyone needs to talk to
a counselor they should take advantage of that. We have

the resources, and it’s not cheap off-campus.’’ .
Schroer-Lamont was unsure whether the location of the

depression screening in the University Center deterred
more people from participating. She does not believe,
however, that students attach a stigma to depression

 91  Peter?‘

PAGE 5

EIGHTEEN PEOPLE came to the university-sponsored depression screening clinic last month.
PHOTO BY HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

or counseling.
“More and more students seem to talk openly about

their depression, especially about medication,” she said.

Depression is a serious illness that can be treated. Coun-
seling, medication therapy, and psychotherapy can be ef-
fective. All of these services are available on a confiden-

= sports

tial basis through the university, which also has links to
professionals in Lexington and Roanoke.

Do not hesitate to seek help if you think you need it.
Friends are supportive, but talking to a professional
can make a depressed person feel a great deal better
surprisingly quickly.

do SOCCER

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
slosh-ball. The Generals scored ﬁrst

off a free kick from Andy Crawford.
The ball felljust short of the goalie’s
range and Jaime Parker, seeing the
advancing keeper, skimmed it off his
head and over the keeper’s out-
stretched arms for an easy goal. De-
spite the Generals’ early lead, the game
did not go their way. The wet field
conditions seemed to favor Denison’ s
sloppy style of play. Denison scored
the equalizer early in the second half.
After the W&L squad failed to retali-
ate with a goal of their own, the game
moved to overtime. With two minutes
remaining in the first overtime period,
Denison’s Brian Hylbert connected
on an unassisted goal to win the game.

Washington and Lee’s game on
Thursday with ODAC rival Roanoke
was less ugly than Saturday’s 2-1
overtime loss to Denison, but the re-
sult was identical. After falling be-
hind 1-0 to Roanoke in the first half,
the Generals came back with a second-
half goal by Jaime Parker which forced
a sudden-death overtime period.
Three minutes into the period, W&L
keeper E.J. Murphy made a great save,
knocking a hard blast from Roanoke’ s
Chris Hewitt over the goal and out
of danger. But, Roanoke’s Kevin
Goodwin won the game with a
header goal on the ensuing
comerkick.

The 1997 season was one of ups
and downs for the men’s soccer team.
With an overall record of 10-5, the team
won twice as many games it lost. But

the Generals fell just short in several
essential games that could have trans-
formed their season. Now there will
be no room for error. On Tuesday the
Generals will begin the ODAC touma-
ment, most likely against rivals
Hampden-Sydney. Will they rebound
from their regular season losing streak
and ﬁnally come together to win a big
game, or fall hopelessly short of glory
once again? As far as their fans are
concerned, victory is inevitable.

QD VOLLEYBALL
CONHNUEDFROMPAGE4

“We knew it was for the champion-
ship, and that EM is a pretty big rival
anyway, so’ we were very fired up en-
tering the match,” said junior Megan
Snodgrass. Both teams played espe-
cially strongly on defense, and the
W&L offense was in full force. In
game one, the Generals opened a 3-0
lead behind a block from senior Hilary
Martin and freshman Williams, a kill
by Williams, and a kill by sophomore
Nancy Reinhart. The teams traded
points before a block by Williams, and
Snodgrass gave the Generals a 5-2
advantage. EM closed the gap to one
before Snodgrass ended the rally with
an emphatic kill. She then served, and
with offensive help by senior Holly
Thomsen and good defense by the
entire team, gave the Generals an 8-4
lead. The teams subsequently battled
to a 10-5 score, with the tenth W&L
point coming off a block by Reinhart
and Martin. EM then went on a rally,
evening the game at 10-10 due mainly
to some W&L defensive breakdowns
and some timely offense. The Gener-

als then went on a run of their own
behind the serves of Martin and took
a 13-10 lead, which they never relin-
quished on their way to a 15-13 vic-
tory.

Games two and three were equally
competitive. EM opened game two by
exploding to a 4-0 lead. The Generals
battled back, however, behind two kills
from Reinhart and one kill from Will-
iams. A service ace by Reinhart
evened the game at 4-4. The teams
traded points and sideouts until the
score was 7-6 in favor of W&L. The
Generals then ran off six unanswered
points with kills by Williams, Reinhart,
Thomsen, and Snodgrass. They ulti-
mately rolled to a 15-9 victory.

Game three was a back and forth
affair, with each team managing no
more than one point per service op-
portunity. Then, the Generals broke
open an 11-11 tie, behind the serves
of Thomsen. A kill by Martin closed
the game and the match at 15-12. Over-
all, Nancy Reinhart led the way with
13 kills. Snodgrass had 8 kills, while
Martin had 8 kills, 10 digs, and 5 blocks.
Senior Ali Beard, who last week broke
the school record for assists in a ca-
reer, totaled 36 more of them.

The Generals defeated Greensboroon
Saturday to improve their record to
16-9 for the season. Reinhart had 16
kills and 18 digs and Martin had 15
kills. Snodgrass and Thomsen
chipped in with 12 kills apiece.

Beard finished the regular season
with a season high 51 assists. The
Generals can now look forward to
the ODAC tournament, where they
have won only once (in 1995) de-
spite being the No. 1 seed for the
past three years. They are confi-

dent entering this weekend.

“We hit our peak this week, which John
was a good time to do so. We have a Stewart
lot of momentum going into this week— [1
end, where we ex t t h "'e€' '€"'m

I _ pee I o ave some meet the mym
good competition, said Snodgrass. SteWam,@Wh1_edu

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3

were hot and sweaty, as throngs of students ﬂocked to
hear one of W&L’s best-loved bands.

Thanks to Fridays!, the Nov. 7 performance of the Break-
fast Club is scheduled for the Pavilion. The larger venue
should prevent the over-crowded conditions that prevailed
in September.

“It’s definitely a plus that they’re playing the Pavil-
ion,” says Justin Riedell, ’98. “That way we won’t all be
packed in like cattle.”

If past performances are any indication, the Pavilion
will be packed Friday night. W&L students just can’t get
enough of the Breakfast Club.

“We like performing at Washington and Lee,” guitarist
Scott Banks said. “Y’all aren’t afraid to raise hell.”

Group members Scott Banks, Michael Mundy, Richard
Leverone and David Allen welcome requests and often
invite audience participation. They claim the ability to
recreate any song from the early to mid-eighties.

“As far as we’re concerned, it is 1985,” they said.

Their costumes support this boast. The lead singer of-
ten appears looking similar to Sting in his Police days,
while the keyboardist sports the Robert Palmer style. All
together, the band does a great job revitalizing the pop
music of the ’80s with enough energy and enthusiasm to
infect the entire audience.

The Breakfast Club travels around the southeastern
United States playing colleges and bars. While most of
their fans were too young to party during the ’80s, they
also have a growing older retro audience.

“We make a good living,” Banks said, “but we are al-

ways on the road and don’t have many days off.” .

The Breakfast Club originated in Winston-Salem, N.C.,
but after several member changes, their home base is now
in Atlanta.

In addition to touring, they are working on an album of
original material.

As usual, the Pavilion will feature a beer garden, allevi-
ating the problem of BYOB regulation. If you’re over 21
and want to drink, don’t forget your ID.

The Breakfast Club starts 9 p.m. Friday, Nov. 7 at the
Pavilion. Tease your hair, throw on some ripped jeans and
be there. It’ll be very.

. 3 '4»-n-4;, ,/

./r .;,.
I’

/fsgg, 


2
‘K-gas '- '5 ' kw‘
. 5: I
/?- -'

-1 a. -. ¥- 
 /
V‘

r
z
e

._§
./
4;?’

,.
 ﬁi  " /,.«,=/

. Z   --
 .'.


‘ ﬁgs‘ .
//
<5

_   .-.-. use or / §;$§'f""$‘7Bs‘;l

.. 7 /

‘If’, my /. I  s_,.99
_.  at’
//''’:,x. I I‘? ,//f %

/ '/’
/J/’ '

, THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT WE CAN
REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP US ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT
WENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLE THINGS LIKE
THE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER THE PAST 30 YEARS,
' OROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED

RS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT'S ALL-NEW..WITH
ORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
LUMINUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL,

IT'S MORE ECONOMICAL...UP TO 38 MILES PER

GALLON HIGHWAY COROLLA IS SAFER AND
QUIETER, AND BEST OFALL, IT STARTS

AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST

YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS

MONEY. WHAT A

R E F R E S H I N G

C H A N G E !

TOYOTA I ovorqdaq

Ms. Miller, Mr. Zacher,
1VIs. Ooombs, Ms. Ewing,
Ms M3YUIT1i1$ Mn Hardie,
Mr. SteWa1t,Ms. Groberg,
Ms. Grant, Ms. Detler and
M. Coffee. These are the
people who live and die
for the H212 Most of them
are failing at least one
class, others have given
up Weekly conversations
with the parents and
other loved ones. They’ve
been sucked into the
black hole of University
Center 2()8. You may not
see us again, but if you
do it’d be great if one of
you faithful, loyal, smart
and cool readers would
say, “thank-you.” So
when you see our blea1y— .
eyed, ponytail/ ball cap
heads on the hill today,
Smile and speak to them.

 

 

B I N I h
I  g  Docnsbrewery By Keggy Trudeau
I
  k
Oﬂd I H   l E
I-tony, miter DENNIS - =9 -‘
vac.-nib 1'. uvt.WIe|5H- M?’
E
I always worry when my parents come to see me. ‘l"""_lr1Te. 1:  i__‘_
In the days before my parents travel to Lexing— 2:13 in ii: ll’ _
._ ton to visit, I fret over what we will do. I worry . ‘
PAGE 6 NOV, 5,  that we won’t have anywhere to go, or worse, that
we won’t have anything to say to each other. The
sights of Lexington can be exhausted in little over '

Ah, midterm grades. Letters on a tiny slip of an hour. My classes don’t offer us much common
paper sent home to tell parents one of two things; ground for conversation. Where does that leave us?
either that the education their little darlings are
receiving is indeed worthy of the tuition money for Red ~

. , ck R0
which they ve mortgaged the house for, or that B11 W /- H‘ h‘ ‘dd’ *4’ ll‘ ‘H h
they are paying $20,000 a year for their child to DﬂVlCl Balsley '99 V /
party farther away from home. I

Are these grades accurate? Not really. In fact, My parents make things a lot easier by planning
they probably cause both students and parents a lot what they want to do. Last year, we drove to Goshen 1'
more perspiration than is really necessary. Pass to see the changing colors of the leaves. This

There are essentially two causes of midterm year, We Walked under Natural Bridge.
inaccuracy. The first is beyond the professor’s And We rallsed We dlsedssed my Classes: loom‘
control. The second, well, the second is just the males: sleelhllg habits» Plans for 33 major, hopes for It
professoras fault an internship and taste in beer. We talked about

Midtemi grades tend to exclude one essential m.y brother’ my dog’ my nelghhors at home’ my
in redient in their calculation‘ the rade for the hlghschool teachers and my small" We were com‘

is _ r . g fortable with each other. I was happy to see them, ﬁemerﬁ ere‘ wgwnﬁr new "up
respective midterm test. Because many classes and they were happy to Se e me ‘ere heme, 1
Walt llhlll after readlhg days to adrrlllllsrer tests, It turns out that my parents and I are a lot alike. I i
there ls 3 leek of llrhe left for gredlhg them before When an announcer introduced himself on TV Sat-
grades are due. Because most of us like the fact urday evening, my dad and I waved and said hello.
that we get the extra days to study (or procrastinate My mom and I both moaned at some of my father’s R
about Studying), there’s no [33501] to cgmplain jokes. My dad and I lOOl( a lOt alike,  IS all
about thin right,with me, because my dad’s good looking.
The Second reason for grade irmaeuraey is that Our similarities made it easy for us to talk to one
. . another. I found out last weekend that a mother,
some professors, in order to scare students into , . .
. . father and son don t need similar schedules to get I‘
workmg harder lor’ for that matter’ Startmg to along They just have to have similar personali-
work), will deﬂate marks, sometimes by an entire tree, which my parents and I do.
letter grade On Sunday morning, the three of us ate brunch

Thls ls Wr0hg- Why shellld stlldehts h3Ve t0 at Aunt Sarah’s. We sat and talked to each other — ' ' ’
guess what their grade is in a particular class, when like adults. In this respect, our relationship has I n g S J u S  n  n e ‘’
professors have the ability — and the responsibility changed since I came to college.

— to accurately represent a student’s efforts? The l hope that l’Ve become more mature since high ' L 3
result of this is that students are handed letters and 5°h°°l= and l,h°l’_e that has helped “5 lo hetler gel  m e S I n   S e  u 
;gn;§>;;;,;; ,‘:l§’.§‘;%,..‘.,‘l;’;‘..§.fi‘,§“,i‘,i’i;‘;Z,‘2,?T$f..,iS..‘E‘E,Z‘;%..‘i:.S.f£; 4*
SO wh e"/en have midterm fades? True the as friends. It’s 3:30 a.m., and deep in the one was friendly. Fraternities had have started to believe this, Look
y _ _ , g ' ’_ y Being able to talk to my parents on an even keel dorms, groups of students have gath- pledges early in the year, and used around you! The Shenandoah Valley
can be an effectlve motlvatlonal tool’ promptlhg means a lot to me. It also requires a lot of me: I ered to play computer games. Where them help to do things to give back to is one of the most beautiful parts of
sllldehls to Werk harder- But to he truly effeetlvea have to be more responsible and I have to do a bet- is your school is headed? the Lexington community. Save for the world; enjoy your surroundings '‘ '
the grades lnnsl be accurate representations Ofa ter job of taking care of myself, so I won’t be em- the occasional ﬁght with VMI, the Get out, meet people — you don’t
student’s achievement (or lack thereof) in a par- barrassed when I tell my parents what I’ve been up V, community and the students inter- have to drink ifyou don’t want, Join '
ticular class. Professors who “guesstimate” grades to. The fewer bad grades l haVe to report, the less I My le W acted well. a service or social organization to
can cause students to panic, but no one pays feel like a child when I call home. The more re~ Douglas Brown :98 _ Iknow it sounds like I am describ- make new friends, but please stop try- n
attention to a grade they know has been deﬂated sponslble I am, the more I feel like an adult, and __._*....._ 1n_g an idyllic place, but that’s what ing to change our school just to make
To make midterm grades worthwhile for any_ the better I can talk to my parents as an adult. r this schoolused to be. Recently, how- yourself happy_
One, freshmen or uppepciassmene both Students My mom, dad and I finished the day with a drive These students who have found ever, admissions has chosen to recruit If you really did not know what to
. . along the Blue Ridge Parkway and a trip to Harris they re not happy here, and the frus- a bunch of really bright students who expect when you came to this school,
and teachers Wm have to Start takmg them more Teeter They took me back to my apartment helped tration has caused them to withdraw have no idea what they are getting and ou are not ha with what ou s
:eri:uSly' _ Professohs have K? Stop trying to Scar‘? carry the groceries inside, then started to get ready inside themselves. Once academi— into. I came here knowing full well founyd, then you  always wlork
res lheh lhre sh-ldylhgs and In tilfn, freshmen Wlll to leave. My mom gave me some money for din- callyjsuperior extroverts, they now what sort of place I was coming to. hard, improve your grades, and then
actually pay attention to the ominous number at the nor, I gave my parents a hug and walked with my hide in a fantasy world to escape the Why have so many other students transfer somewhere you think you
bottom. mom outside. dark reality of life (as they see it) of come here wanting to change the will be happier,

Many students, especially in winter term, , My concerns about not having anything to say Washington and Lee. school? Diversity isn’t a bad thing, Most importantly: don’t let school l"
completely discount their grades because they "or do during their visit seemed silly. We had talked This scene plays out more and but if diversity is what you expected get inthc way of your education You
understand now the professors are grading about everything. We had gone different places and more frequently as our school blindly to ﬁnd at college, you Came to the can learn so much from college just

This makes the midterm grades worthieee had a good time: I had enjoyed their visit and looked strives to achieve some pinnacle of wrong place. . by being here_ Get your nose out of

forward to talking to them again next weekend. I US. News and World Report excel- . Recentlyafew noisy students have the books, or off the computer screen, n
had realized that we really are a lot alike. lence. I don’t want to sound like an decided that the only things to do here and see what other experignces are
‘c I stood and waved as they drove away. ‘I was old codger, but when I was a fresh- are drink, study, and hook up. That is open to you. You may find that you
happy to have shared a wonderful weekend with my man, things here were different. We a very narrow-minded view, and I really are happy here after all, and that
uote of the  parents. had fall Rush, lots of beer, and every- think some of the more naive students there is no need for change, ‘
I I I
“I never thought to equate Dr. Reg I St rat: 0 n In te rm 5 Of Wh O , H Ot Wh at
Nye’s smile with a s#$!—eating
' 72 W
gnn° This upcoming week is one of my least favorite times of graduate, I can’t reveal that right now. Anyway, the War Two and modern Chinese history which I likely
. . . the entire year. It’s registration Week, the one Week When average student is left with a class or two per semester wouldn't have taken otherwise.
" PSYeh- mad or to a B10‘ ma] or  otherwise normal, Well-adjusted Students here at W&L de- in which he can take pretty much whatever they want. Professor Porter is another truly entertaining history pro-
Gide it’s '8 good idea to break out the Sleeping bags and Camp Many students look for the easy way out through an fessor. His enthusiasm for his subject is undeniable. He of-
out at Newoonlb Hall and the Science Center all night for easyclass. Let’s face it: this isn’t State U., and there aren’t ten punctuates the point he’s trying to get across in class by I
I -v . - those Classes they absolutely must have NOW, 1 Could sit any easy classes (Well, actually, there are, but I'm sure slamming his list down on atable. Then there is his disdain
   here and write a lengthy tirade about the registration system as hell not going to tell you what they are. I want to sign for the supposed intelligence of freshmen. As everyone who
that requires me to get up before the Crack of dawn to gel the up for them). Even if you do discover an easy class, has been here longer than a year knows, every freshman
Ereucitve Editors Coumley Miller Classes 1 Want, but, quite honestly, Would be like shooting chances are people began camping out for it on Friday, class that enters this university is the smartest ever. A quick ir
. . ‘l".’°“ Z"°"" ﬁsh in a barrel. Besides, you can always make use of the so you won't get in. aside: wouldn’t you love it if one year the admissions de-
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs . . . . . . , . ,
Armrare Edna, Andrea Ewing drop/add period in January and end up with the classes you The real secret 1S not to choose classes, but profes- pamnent said, Well, this year s freshmen class isn t all that
Wanted anyway Wllllolll Pllehlng 3 tent sors. A lousy professor can suck the life out of a sub— bright. The people we really wanted chose Swathmore and
News Editor Kal1uynvMayumik ~ ject you've been fascinated about for years, while a Davidson, sodon’t expect much fromthe freshmenwe ended
"’&l’fe Ed"°" ¥:r:)h"'r‘;":mt From 3 Bar Stool great professor could make underwater basket weav- upwith. Professor Porter loves to mock that notion His quote 1
opinion & Ed,-ierr-ei Edna, Fmees Grebere Erie Sweneen .98 mg the best twelve weeks of your life. For example, this year, after asking us if we had found a frleslimen tutor
Sports Editor John Stewart T. when I do venture outside the journalism department, yet: “This is the only school in America w ere you pay
Copy Editor 'Will_Hardie With that problem s0lVed, the next problem is how to where, of course, every professor is absolutely fantas- $100,000 and leave (lumber than when you came here.”
5   schedule as enjoyable an academic term for yourself as tic. I’ve found a lot of good professors in the history Just about every professor on this campus can teach you re
possible (without taking a term oﬂ). Of course, there are department. Professor Jeans is one of the few profes- something, but notallof themcanreally challenge you, make E
Business Manager Rebecca Cimy always at least one of two Classes 3 term, either in your sors I know who can lecture for over an hour - 82 and you laugh, or even keep you awake. Remember, whenever
Clm<lali9"_ Manager Matthew Craig major or for general education requirements, that yourcan't a half minutes, to be exact - and actually hold my in- you praise or criticize a class, you’re not talking about the
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown possibly avoid. Science Inalofs haye organic chemistry, terest for the entire time. He also runs a great seminar, class, but the professor who taught it. So why not choose a
Am Advemsmg Editor ' Steven Kim and journalism majors h3Ve-~-Well, Since lslill need to so I’ve ended up taking classes on Japan during World ' professor instead of a class? .
The Rtng-tum Phi is published Mondays during ,

the undergraduate school year at Washington and  (‘K  e

‘Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The _ _  ; 1° ge ,_ " . . . .

R*’;9"“;"eP“‘ comes vnmglvvgorgragrgewsing ind  e:  Irjé. ti‘ What d id your kids do with you this weekend?

S11 SCI‘ p 01'} revenues. r 8 as 11 on 311 ee ' .

Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and I _ _ r ' . ’

Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise ’  ii  i . .  V i  5 ' l i

Independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible

submissions and letters. All submissions must be

in the Phi oﬂlce. room 208 of the University Center. ,

by noon on Saturday to appear In that week's edition. “

The Rtng—tum Phi reserves the right to edit

sybmlsslons for content and length. Letters.

columns and "My Views" do not reﬂect the opinion

of The Rlng- tum PhtEdltorla1 Board. Advertising does

not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its n

staff. This newspaper observes current court ‘

definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Rln9'h1"l Phi “It was wonderful, except for the rain. “She was 1/2 an hour late for breakfast this “She made us Walt an hour and 8 half _“She got us warm beer from Sigma
203 Unlyerslty Center we went to the footbaii game the moming-—she’s really busy. We were just Whlle she Was in the bathroom doing her Chi, and that was really an act of love.”
Washington and Lee Urnversity honors banqugt listencd arefiuuy to th C0l'1CCIT\Cd  morning ,CaUS€ WC WCIC the hair and make'up',l '
Lexington‘ Virginia 24450 ehernist leetni-e and then failed the C only parents without a daughter." —— Jay and Kim Reynolds
Telephone: (540) 462-4060 ‘Y = V _ J. d D n T . . ,
Fax, (540) 462-4059 test.” iman of g1 erzigg parents of Cecily 99
E- ail; hi@ 1 , d — Bill and Kim Connors — Bob and Cheryl Hazard parcms ° “San
m P w u e U parents of Michelle ’00 Parents 0fRebeCC8 ’0l

      
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

s.:.~a.s....nn.u_nnnnu-u- nun: tnuuluiulut.

DISCOVER

     

ising

’ 1997 advert
Itcould be

TOWER 
NORTHWEST AlRL|NES................,......
THE SHARPER 
Cash 
T; apﬁzy ‘cage, gb Q  drsébvefcard .com- _
©1997 Gneenwood Tmsi Ccmpany, Member FDIC. ‘Up to 1% ge_:any_ba'sed ‘an aunuagi

 Q
§

s.

NOVEMBER 3

 

_l;’_AGE 8

Get out and

By Oourtney Miller

Rock the Vote Girl

Hey freshmen! Yeah you with the unusually-high-
brown-nosed- mid-term grades and a roomful of good-
ies stocked by your parents. You’ve got something to
do today.

Vote! That’s right wander over to the D-hall ( you
know the place with free meals that are be-
ginning to look a lot a like, not to m e n -
tion that awfully familiar taste)
pick up a ballot and check
someone’s name off.

Maybe you were won over
by the chalk-on-the—sidewalk-
advertisements, or the multi-
tude of colored paper plas-
tered around campus. Maybe
your roommate or hall mate in is
the running. I don’t care if you
vote for someone based purely on the sound of
his/her name. Or even pull my favorite stand-by - cast
your ballet based on gender.

 

‘BY Al€X y first choice to direct
 an adaptation Of a
WEE James Ellroy novel

ld not e Curtis Hanson. He’s

basically a director-for-hire (not that
that’s a bad thing) who just takes
whatever he’s given and puts it on
screen with little imagination or
style. If you’ve read James Ellroy,
you know that his novels are all
imagination and style and hard-
charging, blackly funny, gut-
punching action. Hanson, on the
other hand, is the director of the
crap-fests “The Hand that Rocks
the Cradle” and “The River Wild.”
Films that play on rather mindless
levels of low-grade suspense: “Will
the crazy killer be around the next
corner?” Brian Helgeland, the hack
screenwriter of “Conspiracy
Theory” wouldn’tbe my
first choice to co-write
either.

All of my doubts about
the two men are confirmed
by the ﬂawed ﬁlm “L.A.
Conﬁdential” is.

For a long while after
seeing the ﬁlm, I just
couldn’t decide what I

thought. I thought I might want to

Lost
in
the

trans-

lation

  

0 .0 ' .
Basical?y, someone has to be In charge, or there will

be no one to blame. SAB takes all the heat for band
selection, and the FD steering committee gets to de-
fend such all-startheme choices as the “Reconcilia-

  
   
  
  

tion Ball of 1865” (for further information on
that scandal see issues of the Ring-tum Phi,
c i r c a 1988.)

Look around and decide who can
handle the pressure of being
“frosh” class president, otherwise
known as the dude who gets to collect

 
 
    
 

 

NOVEMBER 5, 1997

last word  

On the run

President
0 Dan Birdwhistell, 9 Stephen
Philipson, 9 David Sullivan
ViCe—President
Tim Angelillo, 9 Katie Baldwin,

0

   

Ot

 

see the ﬁlm again, sitting farther

back in the theater to get a literally
new perspective on it. I also read the

novel a long time ago, and hadn’t
wanted to reread it in case it might
spoil the experience of the ﬁlm for
me. This review should deﬁnitely be
read with these cautions. “L.A.
Conﬁdential” left me conﬂicted.

The things I’m not conﬂicted
about are many. The acting in the
ﬁlm is uniformly superb, even from
Kim Basinger, who hasn’t done
anything good since “Batman.” The

art direction and cinematography are

stunning, though Hanson takes
rather moderate advantage of these
strengths. The material, Ellroy’s
novel, is the major factor contribut-
ing to the strengths the ﬁlms does
exploit.

I believe the major problems are .'

all found in the adaptation from
novel to screen.

The story of “L.A. Conﬁdential”
is a complex play of power among
people who live outside of society’s
ethics. Criminals and corrupt cops,
movie stars, prostitutes, pimps and
tabloid reporters. Russell Crowe
(“The Sum of Us,” “The Quick and
the Dead”) plays Bud White, a
tough cop who hates violence

class dues. This is the person who’ll be
knocking on the doors of Graham-Lees, hat
in hand, begging for money. It’s got to be a
face you’ll want to see.

Your E. C. representative of today could

be president of the E. C. tomorrow. You
could make history here, vote for :1 FE-
MALE. There has never been a chick in

the oﬂice of prez. It would cement your
place in history. Put that class of ’0l (affectionately
known as the Millenium Falcons) on the map of Washing-
ton and Lee.
So for better or worse, waste some paper and vote.

9 Catherine Mead, 9 Emily
Ramey, 6 Brent Walker, 6 Carter

\lV1lliarns.

E.C. Representative

Q) Ashley Anderson,
Bianco, ®
Cook, (9 Mike Crittenden, © Tyler
jorgensen, ® Mills Palrn, Kathie
Soroka, ®

(3 Stephanie
Vanessa Chen, G) jeff

Keenan Weston

“It’ll be like
‘Chinatown’

meets

‘The River
Wild’.”

against women and is dedicated to
stopping all of it he can. He’s a
physical powerhouse, solving
crimes often by bringing them to
violent confrontations, which he
wins. Kevin Spacey plays
“Trashcan” Jack Vincennes, the
least developed character, a Holly-
wood cop who is an adviser on a
“Dragnet”-like TV show and who
engineers hi gh-proﬁle busts with
Sid Hudgens (Danny DeVito), the
editor of the tabloid “Hush-Hush.”
And Guy Pearce (‘‘Priscilla, Queen
of the Desert”) is Ed Exley, a
supposedly principled cop trying to
live up to his detective father’s
memory. A mass murder in a coffee
shop, known as the Night Owl
Massacre, and the subsequent
investigation, lead these three men
into conﬂict with each other, a weird
movie-star lookalike prostitution
ring, and L.A. Police Chief Dudley
Smith (James Cromwell of “Babe”).

I understand that things have to
left out of movies made from thick
books when they are transferred to
the screen, but if this redaction is all
that goes on, it’s got to ultimately
fail.

The effort has to be made to
capture the attitude and style of the

ﬁction on screen. By all rights,
“L.A. Confidential” should look
and feel darker, make you laugh at
things that aren’t funny, punch
you in the gut and leave you
breathless. It’s a tall order, but
Ellroy has given the filmmakers
the interesting creative problem of
capturing making such a film.
They largely squander that
potential. They cut too much,
they make it too cute, they invent
devices which are too clever by
half to get across information
they could have conveyed with
dialogue or by picking up the
pace.

There are a few exceptions.
The shootout at the end is a great
scene until the end. Kim
Basinger ’s role is given the kind
of attention it deserves. Spacey’s
performance allows a lot of room
for certain plot points to be
glossed over. And some of the
atmosphere is right, though it’s
choppy.

Overall, “L.A. Conﬁdential” is
a good ﬁlm, probably better to
watch if you haven’t read the
book. But after you’ve seen it, if
you want more, darker, less easy,
check out some uncut Ellroy.

 

seven

7} MONDAY it Winter Term Registration
Begins (if you are a science or history major it
means bonding with others in the registration
line) 71} TUESDAY ‘A’ become one with
your W&L Catalog ‘:2’ WEDNESDAY 11}
go out to the Palms and drink away your night;
it will help you deal with the stress of registra-
tion 7} Biv Markie at Pi Kappa Phi ii}
THURSDAY 7} study so you can go out this
weekend; also make sure you watch “E.R.” and
the rest of Must—See—TV 7% FRIDAY 7} the
HELL ends; Registration is over!!! 71} Go and
see the most awesome Eighties Band ever to

Colonnade Club

play at W&L; The Breakfast Club will play

in the Pavilion at 8 p.m. in the Pavilion wk
Sigma Phi Epsilon will jam with Sideshow Bob
71} SATURDAY 11} Become a more
cultured person  The University
Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra in the
Lenfest Center at 8 p.m. 71} Lambda Chi
Alpha hosts Lambdapalooza I

The Caddy.  

that zigs 

Near the end of September as we were driving back
from Staunton, we tried to stop at The Pink Cadillac for
dinner, but it was closed. A note on the door indicated
that the restau-
rant was “closed
indeﬁnitely due
to staff short-
ages,” but a sign
out on the street
said “Opening
October 1”. We
. were quite con-
fused but went
on our way to ﬁnd
dinner elsewhere.
A short time later
The Trident did
some checking
on this situation
and found that
the restaurant
had undergone a

change in ownership. The Pink Cadillac has now been
open for a month, so we decided to check it out and see if
change was truly bad in this case.

We arrived late on a Thursday night, after Doug’s bal-
let class, to ﬁnd things much the same. Same wonderful
atmosphere, and the same wonderful menu with the addi-
tion of new dinner specials.

The majority of the specials featured “fresh” seafood,
but due to Doug’s issues with seafood we refrained. Ear-
lier in the evening we spotted Steven, our g1i1l—chef friend,
passed out on his couch from low blood sugar, so we
brought him along in an effort to revive his spirits. ,

Robin and Steven both selected the “Elvis” burger,
Robin’s perennial favorite. A double-decker masterpiece
with two patties, a center bun, lettuce, tomato, and a spe-
cial sauce, the Elvis burger typically arrives with a side of
fries. Both paid extra to upgrade to Brew City fries, a Pink
Cadillac specialty.

Doug chose 16 ounces of prime rib (because there is
something about eating a pound of cow), also with the
Brew City fries. To drink the men opted for vanilla
milkshakes, while Robin had a chocolate. Doug also or-
dered a “Route 66” root beer (in the bottle); Steven had
Coca-Cola (in the bottle), and Robin drank Diet Coke (in a
glass).

The beverages arrived and we found that the
milkshakes had changed slightly: they are no longer served.
with whipped cream and a cherry on top. The waitress
now brings the extra shake to the table in the metal sleeve,
however, so you really get your money’s worth.

Next the entrees arrived and our grill-chef companion
proclaimed them all to be properly grilled and well-pre-
pared. The prime rib in particular was cooked to perfec-
tion; the way in which the fat melted down Doug’s throat
was, in his opinion, second to none.

Both burgers were juicy, succulent, and tasty. The

_ special" sauce on the burgers gives them a unique and
pleasing ﬂavor. The Brew City fries, as usual, proved
excellent —— well-seasoned, freshly-prepared, and hot.

Our meal lasted beyond the Pink Cadil1ac’s normal clos-
ing time, and yet we felt no pressure to hurry with our
meals. Our waitress encouraged us to try some of the
tempting desserts, but after such a ﬁlling meal, we had to
decline. ,

The brief drive back to Lexington provided an excel-
lent opportunity to recap a fabulous and plentiful meal.
The Pink Cadillac’s new owner seems to have improved
upon a good thing.

This change appears to be a positive; the staff is friendly
and courteous, and the food is just as good as, if not
better, than ever. Fans of this classic diner have nothing
to fear.

 

Wanted I!!! Individuals, Student
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
Spring Break Travel Packages ’
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS !mM

SPANISH TEACHER WANTED:

yam foofzlrzy/‘or a/oerson wﬂo 113
1})/ere:/ea/1}2 /eacfzlrzy my /5120 C51}/c/ren
/a gay ano/yr/1'/, ayes 6 ano/<5’ res/oec/1'ue@/
CS/OdI2I:S‘£ ygey are go/ﬂéeeng zh/ere:/eJ
anofegwoufofwanl /ﬁe /eac-fer /o co122m17/o
/essons /wice cz wee} azzo//0 /eac-5 /Hem 50/5

a/ lie same //zne,  lﬂal 1'3 /003.315/e.

Please call L. Shank at X8941 if you are interested.

By Hollister Hovey

Ainuiwiwél

’l'l'H9W0?-LD

comma TD? /1‘   Cg
5i°<9"" H3)‘

    

  

Tum ?—P<M
INT 0? E969‘.

 

 

I

R

P

i

 

