J

 

 

 

 

 J ~X§.TiS%$og3f‘i‘é‘é”uili$‘eA$‘s‘.n
~ V‘/5/0? D ‘F’: .TON.VA 24450 P

W 0:1. Is YOUR IDEA OF COOKING W D:   13

F WOMEN'S BASKETBALL DEFEATS PB&J 7 EFHCA P305353 O 1998

M LYNCHBURG COLLEGE To TAKEA COM- TAKES A 3'75 OUT OF THE E  I | 
l O MANDING THREE GAME LEAD FOR FINAL MYTH THAT STUDENTS ARE W A C .

 PLAYOFF SPOT. CLUELESS IN THE KITCHEN F   5  I5

E Q) OVER FOR THE PERFECT MOVIE

~ in “
PAGE 4 PAGE 3 —| PAGE 6
‘ ~ Q . Bulk Rate
US Postage
. Lexington. Va.
  *  I  I Pcnl:l’i\‘I£°'7
Washington and Lee University Monday

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 14

FEBRUARY 9, 1998

«Hodges quits
,office over
smoking
‘policy “edict”

‘BY W111. HARDIE AND HEATHER MCDONAID

News Fprrons
Knight Professor of Journalism Louis Hodges an-

nounced Wednesday that he is quitting his campus office
because of the smoking ban imposed Jan. 12. He will work

‘gfrom home from now on, he said at a press conference in
the Reid Hall library.

“President Elrod’s recent edict prohibiting smoking in
this office has forced me to work elsewhere as much as

‘possible,’’ reads a notice on his office door. “ I will, of
course, remain readily available, especially to all students.
This office will remain open. Appointments may be made
through Mrs. Murchison  I regret this minor change as
much as I lament the policy that forced it.”

3,, “There is no way my smoking is going to bother any-
one,” Hodges said at the press conference. He said he
had two air filters in his office, and would not smoke in
front of students unless _.they suggested it. Hodges said
that not being able to smoke in his office was disruptive,
since he had to get up and leave his office, interrupting his
work.

President John Elrod said, “As we have said before,
Washington and Lee has had a long history of faculty
being in available to students in their ofﬁces. It is an hon-
orable and well-respected tradition, and I hope all profes-
sors will abide by it.”

Hodges said that the problem was not just about to-
bacco. “It’s further loss of individual liberty,” he said.

,, Hodges also said that the smoking policy wasia part of
a growing trend for W&L to be governed from the top
down. He said that W&L is now more hierarchical than
when the previous president, John Wilson, arrived. He calls
the policy change an “edict.”

*v( When asked to respond to that allegation, Elrod said,
“The new policy is in the best interests of the students.”
Why was the issue not put to a faculty vote? “It was an
academic decision,” he said.

. Hodges said he was disturbed by the lack of published

" response from students and faculty. He said that he re-
ceived support from smokers and non-smokers alike, but
no one came forward to protest the policy.

“I don’t expect the policy to be reversed. To undo the

g policy would be to admit a mistake,” Hodges said.

Hodges will now be working out of his home. Buildings
and Grounds workers moved his belongings out of his office
Thursday and Friday, and his new “office” will be ready to-
day. His new home computer and phone will be hooked up

'. to the University network. It was unclear whether the Uni-
versity or Hodges will pay for the new computer.

Claudette Artwick, Associate Professor of Mass Com-
munications and Journalism, moved into the office vacated

‘ by retired Professor of Journalism Ronald MacDonald at the

‘ start of the academic year. He smoked a pipe regularly in the
office. Artwick requested that B&G deep-clean the rug and
re-paint the walls. She said that afterwards there was no de-
tectable odor of smoke.

 

ﬂ Louis W. Hodges, Knight Professor of Journalism,
stands on his porch. He will now be working out of his
home, because he cannot smoke in his office due to the

”e"’ 5’"0/“"3 P°“Cy- HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

 FLYING AWAY TO NEVER-NEVER LAND

Sophomores Kelly “Wenay " Stewart, Kappa Delta, and Jason "Peter Pan" Nichols, Phi Delta Gamma, at the
“Famous Lovers” mixer between KD and Kappa Kappa Gamma.

HoL1.1sTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Ala. visitor charged for
making himself at home

(I) Sweet Home Alabama: felony burglary charge for confused Sigma Nu

WILL HARDIE
Nsws EDITOR

Ryan Stephens thought he had a
good reason for breaking into law stu-
dent Jessica Janov’s apartment and
crashing out on her couch. He told
police he was so drunk he thought he
was at home in Alabama.

Stephens, a student at Jacksonville
State University, had come to Lexing-
ton for a Sigma Nu party. At 1 1:10 p.m.
Saturday, after heavy drinking, he
found himself on Henry Street and
decided to try to get into J anov’s apart-
ment. She was out.

When he found the front door
locked, he smashed a six-by-three-inch
pane of glass in the door open it, ac-
cording to the police report.

W&L law student Jason Mayfield,
who lives in the next apartment, heard
the glass breaking. “I went out and
said to him, ‘what are you doing?’,
and he said something to the effect
of, I’m getting in my window,”
Mayfield said. “When he turned
round and talked to me, I could tell he
was pretty wasted.”

Mayfield called police, and officer
Michael Hess arrived at l l:l5. He saw
the broken glass and the open door,
and went inside to find Stephens
sprawled on the couch in the front room.

“I asked ifthis was his house two
or three times, and he said, yes.” said
Hess. But it was clear that Stephens
did not live there.

“I saw a bunch of ladies’ hair curl-
ers in the bathroom and I asked him
how often he used them,” said Hess.
According to the police report,
Mayﬂeld has straight, short hair.

Stephens was speaking rapidly and
slurring his speech, and had blood-
shot eyes. Hess said Stephens told him
that he thought he was at his house in
Jacksonville, Ala., and that he had for-
gotten his keys so had had to break
the window to get in. Hess charged
him with felony burglary, trespassing,
and public drunkenness.

Janov was at a lawyers’ ball at VMI
at the time, and found out about the
break—in when police turned up there
asking for her. She was unshaken by
the break- in, but was not sure whether

to believe Stephens’ story.

“What makes his story very shaky
is that he had looked at my bills and
he knew my name,” she said. “It makes
me wonder whether he really thought
this was his apartment. If his story is
true and he really thought it that it was
his home then he has got a real prob-
lem, if he was drinking that much.”

Hess said that Stephens had not
stolen anything, but agreed that his
story sounded odd.

“He was drunk, but he knew who
he was, he knew what frat house he
had been at and he knew what hotel
he was going to,” said Hess.

Janov is not eager to press charges.
“I would rather he went into an alco-
hol program than any action was taken
against him,” she said, “but it’s really
out of my hands now.” _

Stephens must return to Lexington
to attend court on Feb. 24.

Though it is unlikely he would be
given the full guideline sentence, if
found guilty of burglary and trespass-
ing Stephens could face between six
and 21 years injail.

‘Margand clarifies rape issues at Women’s Forum

BYSARAH MELDRUM
I

STAFF \WRlTI'-R

“Rape is a single sanction offense at Washington and Lee.”
With that statement, Nancy Margand, chair of the Stu-
dent Faculty Hearing Board started Tuesday night’s
Women’s Forum meeting.
ii Confusion and misunderstanding surrounds the pun-
ishment for rape at W&L, Margand said.
. According to the page 32 of the Student Handbook, rape,
defmed as forced sexual intercourse, will result in a dis-

 r

missal from the University. Other forms of sexual miscon-
duct may also be grounds for dismissal, although no one at
W&L has been convicted of rape for over five years. And
many rapes go unreported on this campus, Margand said.

The SFHB hears and judges cases of sexual misconduct,
but many victims do not know what to do after an attack.

“People will come in and say, ‘I didn’t know where to
go, so I didn’t say anything,” Margand said. She empha-
sized where to turn for help, and how to turn someone in,
needs to get out to the student body.

If students are victims of sexual assault, they should
seek medical attention regardless of their intent to pursue
charges. The school’s counselors can tell students their
options.

During freshman orientation, all students receive wam-
ings about rape and violence and advice about how to
respond to them. In the confusing rush ofinforrnation that
week, though, most papers are forgotten or shoved in a

CD

SEE RAPE PAGE 2

Professor
Conner skids
on ice, rolls
sport utility

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

MANAGING EDITOR

Although sport utility vehicles are extremely popular,
they come with some excess baggage. Most jeeps and
trucks bear a warning, stating that the vehicle has a ten-
dency to ﬂip. Assistant Professor of English Marc Conner
and is family found that out the hard way last week.

Conner, his wife and his 18-month—old son were making
their way to Lexington from their farm in the Timber Ridge
area through inclement weather Wednesday around noon.
Although Lexington‘ received a less than an inch of snow
last week, accompanied with rain, Conner’ s area received
six inches of snow Wednesday, two inches Thursday and
six more inches Friday. Conner lives about 6 miles from the
city of Lexington.

As the drove down a steep hill, Conner drove his 1995
Ford Explorer cautiously. However, when he hit a patch of
ice, the truck went into a skid and hit an embankment.

“Then we ﬂipped over and skidded about 10 feet,”
Conner said. “I was kind of wondering how long it was
going to last before we would stop. But I was mainly wor-
ried about my son and how he was doing.”

When the car finally came to a halt, they couldn’t get the
doors open. “I was able to crawl out the driver’s side win-
dow. My wife crawled in the back seat to get my son and I
helped them out one of the back windows,” Conner said.

“My son was crying and he looked a little wide-eyed,
but once we got him out of the car he started to laugh. I
think he wanted to go for the ride again.”

Conner said that he knew that Explorers have a propen-
sity for ﬂipping over. ‘

“It isia trade off between how the car will handle impact
and its tendency to roll. And although my car did roll, it
didn’t collapse and we were all uninjured.”

Conner canceled his classes for Wednesday and Thurs-
day. On Friday, he attempted to drive into Lexington in his
Toyota. On his way off the farm, he slid into a foot-and-a-
half snowdriﬁ and got stuck. “I just left the car there. Some
of the farm hands helped me tow it out later,” he said.

Conner said that he was usually very comfortable with
driving in the snow having lived in Washington, New Jer-
sey and Indiana.

Conner and his family did not leave their farm from Tues-
day night until Saturday morning. “We were all going nuts!
We couldn’t stand it,” he said. “The worst part of all of this
was that I had to miss class for three days. I also had to
move a paper date and a midterm.”

Students left
out in the cold

BY ERICA PROSSER
STAFF WRITER

Every winter, grade school children press their noses
against windows at the first ﬂake of snow, hoping for a
day without school. Washington and Lee students do
the same thing, but while Rockbridge County grade
schools close for just a few inches of accumulation, W&L
classes are never canceled for such a small snowfall.

“Ice or a blizzard are the only conditions that we will
cancel school for,” said Scott Beebe, Director of Build-
ings and Grounds. “The road conditions and campus
conditions have to be judged unsafe before we’ll close.”
Who decides what “unsafe” is? President John Elrod
would make the ultimate decision to close the school, but
he would consult with Beebe before doing so. ,

“The President asks if I can make the campus safe,”
Beebe said.

“We confer in the morning, about 5:30 a.m., on days
[when the weather is questionable].”

W&L students may get annoyed that the few inches
of snow that keep them trapped in the country are not
enough to cancel classes. That doesn’t bother Beebe.

“We’re not like the Rockbridge County schools,” he
said. “We don’t need the whole county to be cleared
before we can open.”

Some students are disgruntled about how rare class
cancellations are. One junior said that the policy seems
like a way to maintain W&L‘s “macho reputation.”

‘‘It isn’t necessary to make everyone drudge through
a ridiculous icy mess just to be able to say that W&L
never closes,” she said.

Junior Megan Carleton agreed.

“I believe the weather policy is a bit extreme,” she said.
‘‘I value my life more than my education. When I hydro-
plane to class at 20 miles per hour, there’s gotta be some-
thing wrong.”

CD

SEE SNOW PAGE 2

 

 

Perhaps Dan was too busy with making hislown ,
' Valentine’s Day plans this week to write his column. ‘,
, As an alternative, we otfertwo handy top-ten listsyo,
- jump-start your February Break. ‘ « " ’

TOP TEN PLACES FOR W&L STUDENTS 
To HOOK UP AT 3 A.M.

10. The 50-yard line ofwilson Field
‘9. The Lexington Post Office .
8._ Graham-‘Lees/Gilliam laundry rooms
7. I Libra:ry’locked~study carrels
6. 'I‘heJ-school computer room
-5. Moot Courtroom
4., Chi Psi late night
i 3.('Thelibrary roof , , ~
2. virgmia Military Institute academicﬂbuildingsg9:; 
I. The Ring-tum“Phi office  * ‘  I I Q

 

  
 

TORIEN PICK-UPLINES To use  AM. 9‘
10. Nice shoes.....  V‘ ,  .
9.’ Was it love at ﬁrstsight, or should Iwallt by 
8. Would you like to have breakfast tomorrow? Should, A

I nudge you or call you? A‘ "I
7. ‘My name isn’t Fred Flintstone, but I could sure) I
I . make yourBed—rock., , ' _ I  H’ A
A 6. Damn! [thought Very Fine Ionlycamein acanl‘ _ V
5. I Pardon me miss, Illseem to have lost my phone ,
number. Could I borrowyours? . L I A  
, 4. ’I’ve had a pretty bad day, and it usually makes Inc I 9
feel better to see a pretty girl smile. SoL..wouldyou' . I.
careto smile forme? , . V . “ll 9 .
v 3. That dress looks,nice.;,O‘f course, it would look :
 even better crumpled  in the  of’ . 

can see myself‘. in your pants!
1. Take me drunk;I’ni home.

 

Needrnore?Checkoutht1p://www: .ithaca.edu/oI*gs’pIW 

I 2. Do you wash clothes in Windex?- Because  7 I

 snow

IICWS

FEBRUARY 9, 1998 E

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

Beebe said he was surprised by
how many W&L students don’t
dress appropriately for the weather.
He suggested that students wear
clothing designed for walking in the
snow, since there is no chance the
school will close for flurries.

“I see students in high-heeled
pumps walking through the snow,”
he said. “I mean, get some boots!”

According to a popular campus
rumor, when the school closed for
a few inches of snow in 1962, the
students all left to go skiing. The
administration‘ got so angry that
they vowed never to cancel
classes for just a few inches of
snow again. Beebe, who has heard
that rumor, cannot confirm its
truth, but he said that any past
closing problems have no bearing
on current school closings.

The last time W&L closed was
in January 1996. The Blizzard of
’96 had just deposited three feet
of snow on the ground, and stu-
dents and faculty could not make
it back to W&L from Christmas
break. Classes were canceled for
two days.

Before that, W&L closed in
January 1995. In that case, ice was
the culprit, keeping roads and side-
walks dangerous. That closure was
also due. in nart. to Virginia Power.

They asked W&L to close down
that day to conserve power in the
freezing Rockbridge County.

“I got complaints from faculty
who did manage to make it in that
year,” Beebe said. “They’d get
out of their cars and slip, then
complain about the ice.”

When the school actually does
close, the word needs to be spread
to students and faculty. Brian

Shaw, Director of Communica-_

tions and Public Relations, has
the job of notifying the W&L
community. “We want class to
continue, but not at the expense
of safety,” he said.

Shaw maintains a weather line that
anyone can call. He is not sure how
popular the weather line is, but he
has one good clue.

“We can’t count the number of
calls on the weather line,” he said.

“But there’s a woman in Lexing-
ton whose phone number is one
digit off of the weather line. She
complained that she got over 100
calls from students last week, ask-
ing her about the weather.”

Just in case the weather is threat-
ening, the weather line number is
462-GOOD. Students can call any-
time to hear an automated response
detailing W&L’s operating hours for
that day.

member. Thankyou.

ECADDRESSES.
   oursioe   

_ A .- ; fIfhe‘Executive Committee has received.queriresl,w  tltepiiiitjlica-;7,’
 tions of the Honor System with regard to the ”tise"6f false  .
. tions. While it is not customary forthe Exject;nyé‘t:ommieeé to tea
/I spend to hypothetical inquiries regarding potentialvlionor V19, atiohs; 
, the Committee will, on occasion, comment on-certain issues‘ where I
. some confusion or much discussion exists. , 9", lg,  V, I
‘ I f Students should note that the use of a fake ID, whetltef ‘
‘ j,Lexiiig'ton, may be considered an Honor Violation.  
 Executive Comn‘iitt?:e.merely seeks to have} students consider‘
:*stIs1‘ej consequences of using,a.faI<e.ID in light ofthe
, lgiponer System. The Committee maintains its policyofnot ey, ,
“an inclusive or exclusive code of honorable_ conduct}.
ff  Committee, encourages students to add ‘$5 9,
cerning the 'Honor;,System or student government In '”g‘ene’ral'to

I .~ #?¥evi2.1?s'*€ﬁ> €.~¢~

I

   
   
  
   

 

HOUSING Q&A SESSION TO BE HELD TONIGHT

A Question-and-Answer Session about the Housing Application process will be held to-
night at 8:00 p.m., in the Commerce School, Room 327. Rising sophomores are reminded that
they are required to live in University housing, and no matter what their housing plans-frater-
nity house, theme house, Gaines Hall, or Woods Creek Apartments-they must submit a Hous-
ing Preference Fonn no later than noon on‘Friday, Feb. 13, in Payne Hall 4.

EATING DISORDER SCREENING AFTER FEB. BREAK '-

W&L will be participating in the National Eating Disorders Screening Program. Students will
be able to take a brief screening test for eating disorders and have an immediate evaluation from
one of our professional counselors. The screening will take place between 9:00 a.m. to 3 :00 p.m.
on Wednesday, Feb. 25, in Room 108 of the University Center. The scoring will be done by a I
nurse from the Health Center. Anne McThenia, University Counselor, and J an Kaufman, Health
Educator, will be available for consultation and evaluation after the screening test. An infOrma- I
tional slide show will also be presented by LIFE on Tuesday, Feb. 24, at 8:30 p.m. in the
University Center, Room 109. Questions? Please call the Counseling Service at 463-8590 or

Health Education office at 462-450 1. I
PHI ETA SIGMA SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIONS DUE
All current members of Phi Eta Sigma are eligible to receive scholarships for graduate or ‘

undergraduate work. Scholarships of $2,000 and $1,000 are available for undergraduate work;
for graduate work scholarships are in the amount of $2,000. Washington and Lee will nominate
one student for the undergraduate work scholarship; applications for the graduate scholar-
ships are unlimited. All applications are due March 1. Interested students please see Dean
West-Settle on or before Feb. 16. I y

— compiled by Heather McDonald

 RAPE

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

desk drawer. “What frustrates me is that when you need it, people don’t know where to look,” Margand
said.

The high alcohol consumption rate on campus aggravates the problem of acquantance rape and 1'‘
assault, Margand said. If a woman is incapacitated, she cannot give consent. Margand said that those
cases can be difficult for the SFHB to decide, especially if both parties are drunk.

“How are they to know if he’s telling the truth, and so is she?” Margand asked. “He may think she
gave consent, she may think she refused, but then both are drunk, no one can be sure.”

Many students are brought forward on conduct charges, which carry lesser penalties, such as
social probation, if an accused is found guilty. When the SFHB hears a case, it posts its ﬁndings on
campus in the same manner used by the EC. The SFHB must trust the convicted student to obey the
probation because the names of students involved are kept confidential. The student body must rely
on the honor of the convicted student. If he is caught breaking the probation, he is dismissed from ,.
school. Only people who were involved in the investigation are the only ones who can catch him.

Margand agreed that social probation seems like a minor punishment for some forms of sexual
misconduct. “We ought to be treating [sexual misconduct] more seriously than we are,” she said.

, « 
Apt for RENT, , . . . V
T //
0%,, EXCELLEN 72‘/E MAJORS 54/? /5 C0/W/V5,. ,
LOCATION,

CUTS ,
cry-°>ta' 5010 3 BEDROOM’ @ Are you still confused about choosing a major? ‘
Tower 73 MICROWAVE
Building  . ' h
131 Wes, CORRECT/ON FOR MORE  Would you like to have a chance to talk Wlt r
¢:..v.::::II F0/U/V6 INFORMATION’ V faculty and explore SEVERAL majors?

Rea-_-o_ke. CALL 465'76q) ® Does your dayplanncr always seem to overlook '
};';:',',";:,i‘;’1;,, UWENCE this IMPORTANT activity?
NOT TO WORRY.’
3 Bed Apt 93-99 Music Indus")! —The MAJORS FAIR is coming to your rescue!———
School Year Opportunity. ,
Vl‘é?SSr:‘V€\=,;‘/grzlél:-‘V Breaking Join your favorite members Of the faculty and a
Microwave e(eA;::“' star senior from each Of the majors: 1‘ :
Short walk from _"998 cones’: T d F b 10 1998
W&L _ e 1- a
308 McLaughlin Relprest-e:tatIv¢tes. “es ay9 u 1y 9 ’
St t npal grea _ . , _ - -
Cafifany be,,e’ﬁts 5.30 — 6.45 p.m. Evans Dining Hall
Swisher Call Mr. Wilkins ,
:66§’:97§§§)((l:;fri::)) at (803) 7793803 The format is informal, remember this is a FAIR!
There will be PRIZES, GIFTS, and a DRAWING FOR "
DINNER FOR TWO at the WILLSON—WALKER House!

 

  

  

FEBRUARY 9, 1998

  

Lenfest Center’s
_|atest production
showcases women

‘BYCOUR’INEYMlI.LER

4 B1rRr;vrwnz

Although “Crimes of the Heart” is a refreshing ve-
hicle to showcase the talented actresses at Washington
and Lee, the two-and-a—half-hour play needed a jump start
during the first act of Saturday’s performance. In con-
trast, the ﬁnal two acts bristled with electricity and energy
between the Magrath sisters.

Currently playing at the Johnson
Theater in Lenfest Center, “Crimes of

3 the Heart” centers around the Magrath
women, who are eccentrically southern.
The sisters, Lenny (Holly Estes ’00),
Meg (Megan Johnson ’98) and Babe
(Cassie Ritter ’0 1) have come together
to support Babe, who hasjust shot her
abusive husband.

Johnson ﬁilﬁlls the production re-
quirement of her senior thesis with this

* production. She is conﬁdent and sin-.
cere in her portrayal of Meg, the middle sister who returns
ﬁom California.

Estes makes her debut on the Lenfest stage as Lenny,
the older sister who, at age 30, is stuck playing mother to

"' her sisters and nursemaid to her grandfather. While Estes
is strong when interacting with other sisters, she was over-

 

HOLLY ESTES, Megan Johnson and
Cassie Ritter are the Magrath sisters in
Crimes of the Heart.

0:”

whelmed in the ﬁrst act. However, by the end of the play,
she had come alive thereby giving Lenny the charm and
vitality she lacked in earlier scenes. While part of this is
due to Beth Henley’s script, which won the Pulitzer Prize
for Literature in 1981, Estes seemed to lack presence and
conﬁdence on stage during the first act.

Ritter as Babe, “the prettiest and most perfect of the
three...” makes her debut in W&L theater. Ritter is con-
vincing as the sweet, juvenile sister and the scenes be-
tween her and Johnson are the best in the play. Especially
in the second act, when Babe confesses to Meg her affair
with a 15-year-old black boy.

The supporting cast includes Chick (Alyssa Sellers
’99), Doc Porter (Ryan Truax ’0 1 ) and Barnette (Peter Duvall
’00). Sellers, who most recently played the narmy in “Uncle
Vanya,” is a fabulous character actor.
She milked the part of Chick and
seemed to genuinely enjoy the role,
especially being chased out the door
with a broom.

Truax and Duvall seemed lost
among a cast of such strong females.
Duvall’s weak accent and Truax’s dis-
appearing limp did little to strengthen
their contribution to the cast.

The actresses’ costumes were par-
ticularly fun, especially for a play set in
the early 1980s.

Overall ,“Crimes of the Heart” is a strong play. It sold out its
weekend perfonnances. It is refreshing to see women dominat-
ing the Lenfest stage. Johnson should be more than satisﬁed
with her senior thesis performance and Ritter and Estes should
look forward to more ﬁne performances on the stage.

 Final shows are tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m.

Puaucnr Prroro

W&life

rimes
he Heart

Mil“ 3

Hey goodlooking,

«Whatcha

_got cookin’?

BY ERICA PRossr~:R

 

STAFF \Y/iznnz

unior Elizabeth Huston eats on
Y campus and in restaurants, but she
never cooks.

“The only thing I ever make for my-
self is tea, which I don’t think counts
as cooking,” she said. She has a full

It kitchen at her disposal. She does not
use it, but she is completely happy
with her lack of cooking habits.

Is Huston typical, or do college
students actually cook more than most

" people expect?

The widespread myth is that
Huston is typical. Students are not
expected to be gourmets, or even

'slightly adept in the kitchen. Even

‘Julia Child, the famous chef, didn’t

have her ﬁrst bite of French cuisine un-
til she was 37 and long out of school.

Writers make fortunes from books

1 like “The Student’s Cookbook” which
feature recipes any well—trained dog
could manage. Do all W&L upperclass-
men leave their own kitchens empty
while they dine out, as Huston does?

Against the expectations of most
people, some students actually cook,
and often. Senior Jake Sewall cooks
every day, and he never uses a boxed
4 mix like Hamburger Helper.

“I make salad, steamed vegetables,
broiled steak, and homemade bread,” he
said. He uses a ten-meal plan for
lunches and dinners during the week,

I but weekday breakfasts and weekend
meals mean breaking out the cookbook.
One dessert he made
recently for a date was ‘ C
a French custard recipe
which called for con-

 

I

Iwasamacand

” and his breakfasts are

grand affairs consist-
ing of waffles, pancakes, or biscuits,
all prepared from scratch. He even

‘uses pure butter and pure maple

syrup. He, like Huston, is the excep-
tion to the rule; most students fall
somewhere in between.

Jerry Darrell, director of Dining Ser-

hfvices, said that most upperclassmen

take advantage of meal plans and food

debits on campus, even though most

of them have kitchens of their own.
“80 to 85 percent of the [upperclass]

SOPHOMORE ADAM HENRY in the kitchen.

student body uses the food debit declin-
ing balance system,” Darrell said. Stu-
dents keep money on their university
cards which they can use to buy food
tax-free on campus. It is the most popu-
lar meal plan among upperclassmen.

Still, Darrell said, about 150 upper-
classmen take advantage of the ﬁve-
and ten-meal plans. These plans al-
low students to buy meals at all three
W&L dining spots. The students re-
ceive ﬁve or ten meals per week, but
unused meals from one week do not
carry over into the next week. Both
plans feature a “plus” option, as well;
that means that a set food debit bal-
ance can be maintained along with the
ﬁve or ten allotted meals.

Freshmen are required to use the 20-
meal plan, which is the most restrictive
of the plans. All 20 meals must be used
in Evans Dining Hall, and the plan does
not include a food debit. Only a dozen
upperclassmen use the 20-meal plan,
Darrell said.

Dining on campus, then, is a fre-
quently-used choice, even among stu-
dents with kitchens. Huston’s cooking
abstinence, however, is an exception,
not a rule. Most students do make use
of their kitchens, though not usually
with the ﬂair of the Frugal Gourmet.

Junior Sarah Meldrum said that she
uses her ﬁve-meal plan
for lunches on campus
and cooks dinner with
her roommates in their

stant stirring for more cheeseconnolsseurr Woods Creek apart-
than two hours. Sewall but over winter break merit.
stirred dili entl , and “ Wedo thin slike
«the dessertg carrl/e out my mom bought sourl, rice,] potftoes,
perfectly. me “C00kZ'7’1g F01‘ pasta, frozen pizza, but
Sewall also bakes Dblmmies. H sometimes we go all
loaves of bread from out with a real meal,”
scratch every week, T" Nathan Hager she said. A real meal,

97 according to

Meldrum, includes a
meat dish, vegetables, bread, and other
well-balanced courses. She said that
the four of them sit down together like a
family and enjoy dinner.

Junior Rebecca Fitzsimmons’ eating
habits are just that: habit. She eats the
same dishes nearly all the time, but her
dinners do require the use of a kitchen.
“For dinner I will have one of the fol-
lowing things 99 percent of the time:
macaroni (easy to make—just boil wa-
ter), a fat free hot dog, or two bagels

 

H0u1srF1z Hover/Puoro EDIIUR

with fat free cream cheese,” she said.

Junior Nathan Hager said that this
year has brought about an increase in
the amount of cooking he does, but that
last term, he was less capable than
Fitzsimmons. “Last tenn, I didn’t know
how to make mashed potatoes. I was a
mac and cheese connoisseur,” he said.
“But over winter break, my mom bought
me “Cooking For Dummies,” and it has
a recipe for mashed potatoes. Now I’ve
progressed enough in my cooking skills
so I can follow very simple recipes, but
I still rely a lot on reheating frozen food.”

Why don’t students cook more of-
ten? The expectation here is that
students simply don’t have
the ability to cook. W&L
students disagree, however.
“The cooking part is fun,”
Meldrum said. “It’s the clean-
ing up later that’s a pain.”

Cleaning is indeed a cook-
ing deterrent, but the most prevalent de-
terrent is the time necessary to ﬁx some-
thing nicer than pizza.

“I don’t have time to ﬁx the kinds
of food that I want; they take too
long,” junior Jessica Simpson said.
“I’m usually way to hungry to wait
for something that I have to put in the
oven or on the stove.”

Fitzsimmons said that cooking
comes down to time priorities. “I
would rather sleep later than get up
and cook a big breakfast,” she said.

Are students happy with this ar-
rangement? Huston is happy just mak-
ing tea, and Simpson and Fitzsimmons
are both content with their arrange-
ments. In fact, the only person who
expressed any discontent was Sewall.

“I wish I cooked more,” he said.

Students may want to take cook-
ing a little more seriously, though;
some students ﬁnd cooking ability at-
tractive in members of the opposite
sex. Sewall’s idea ofa date is to make
a full gourmet dinner for his guest.
Hillary Coombs said that cooking is
an odd choice for a ﬁrst date, but a
great idea aﬁer a few dates. Clean-
up, again, is a major concern, though.

Coombs’ roomates threw a dinner
party for her birthday. “I said, ‘This
is a really nice idea, guys, but ifl have
to clean this stuff up, it’s not nearly
as nice.’ Everybody stayed and
helped clean up afterward.”

 

PAGE 3

CRIMES OF THE HEART, Beth Henley ’s Pulitzer prize—winning play, centers around three passionate, eccentric southern

women who harbor secrets they are cgfaial to share. Tonight and Tomorrow at 8 p. m.

PI/Bucnr P1-I070

HELP FD Committee needs
WANTED; more contract workers

BY KHLEY TOITH\I

STAFF Wizrraz

t’s money, baby, money. For all those Washington &

Lee swingers who think they can’t afford to go to the

Fancy Dress Ball this year, think again. Power tools
and paintbrushes can ﬁnance your FD.

The FD Committee is looking for contract workers to
help build and decorate Doremeus Gymnasium for the ball.

“You can’t build the whole FD with just 50 people,”
said Carolyn Lee, the committee’s auditor. The committee
hires students to help with the actual construction de-
signed over months of planning. Contract workers also
paint sets, sell memorabilia and do various other odd jobs.

Contractors are expected to work 25 hours between
now and Friday, March 6, the day of the ball. In exchange,
they will receive tickets for two people and a memorabilia
package for one. ’

The work started in the Pavilion on Saturday and will
continue there until the week before FD, when everything
will be moved to the gym.

“It’s a really fun way to get involved in FD,” said Jenni-
fer Justema, president of the committee. “It doesn’t take
too much time and energy and [students] can have a really
ﬁrn time with it.”

One of the perks for contractors includes ﬁnding out

the secret theme before the rest of the W&L

community. Lee hinted at a “particularly intricate construc-
tion” that will require a lot of talented carpenters. She
refused to comment further.

“It’s something that they’ve ne‘ver"seén before,” said
construction co-chair Christine Bragg. The design of this
year’s FD has been a collaborative effort between the con-
struction and decoration committees, said Bragg, who en-
visioned this year’s gala along with co-chair Matthew
Kirby-Smith, junior, and decoration committee chair Jenny
Stone, junior.

“Any help from anybody would be great,” said Bragg,
who mentioned that contractors could even have a say in
some of the final decisions and decor. “It’s not all set in
stone —— we’re still using new ideas.”

Approximately $70,000 will be spent on this year’s FD,
said Lee. The majority of the funds will be spent on the
decorations and the bands.

Invitations, which will reveal the theme, will be sent out
over the Washington holiday. Tickets and memorabilia will
be available starting March 2 in the University Center.

So far, approximately 30 people have signed up to help.
Ideally, the committee would like to have at least 40 work-
ers. Anyone interested should call either Justema at 464-
5220 or Mary Michael Pettyjohn at 464-5924.

“We’re not going to be able to pull this off without
teamwork,” Bragg said. “It will be a roaring good time.”

BY ROBERT SEIN
——-—-—-—-—— smut/am

Sadly, Valentine’s Day (along
with St. Patrick’s Day and, if you stay
on campus, Thanksgiving) seems to
be one of those holidays that fades
into unimportance once you get to
college. As grade school students,
reminders of the prevailing holiday
surrounded us in the form of paper
cut-outs, dioramas and posters.
Most of us remember our elemen-
tary school teachers demanding that
we cut out little red hearts to give to
our moms.

dead.”

Scarcely more ro-

Cupid comes to campus

liberately or accidently forgotten. Many
students seem to think that giving a
Valentine’s Day feature article space
alongside “legitimate” articles is to give
it undeserved status.

This year, Valentine’s Day falls on a
Saturday —the day af-
ter Friday the l3th —
a black omen for some
students. Vanessa Hall,
senior, numbers among
those disenchanted by
the holiday. “In the
Neitzschian sense,” she
said, “God, and Love, is

more Angelo DiStefano hopes to
score big this Valentine’s Day with his
pick-up line: “I may not have the best
body, but you know what? You do.”

When asked to sum up his
Valentine’s Day plans, Junior Pat
Driscoll stated mat-
ter-of-factly: “Just
shag, baby.”

Some prefer a
more sensitive ap-

Cé

Some girl gave
me chocolate

boobs one proach. Anurag

. , Chandra, senior and
Valentine sDay. dOrm_counSel0r
—BlllWarn0Ck extraordinaire,

’? thinks women are
best appealed to

As far as I know, few professors at
Washington and Lee suspend their
scheduled lectures to make Valentine’s
Day cards. So, for the W&L student
who hasn’t been stung by Cupid’s
arrow, the holiday is most often de-

Ho1.I.Is775R Hoi'r;r/PHo7o EDIIUR

 

mantic, “a blank check” is sophomore
Mike Healey’s prefered method to
convey his undying passion.
Stephanie Frank,junior, thinks of her-
self as one of the casualties of this
mentality. “My male and female friends
never give me Valentine’s Day gifts,”
said Frank, “because my birthday is
the next day.”

The student body as a whole,
however, seems eager to throw away
the apathy and get a little crazy. Just
ask Bill Wamock, a senior who, speak-
ing only in vague terms, claimed that
“some girl gave me chocolate boobs
one Valentine’s Day.”

Senior Kris O’Neal suggested a
similarly direct route: “Just ask her to
come home with you” was his advice
to aspirants for a lady’s heart. Sopho-

through their stomachs. “Have a
romantic dinner,” he said, “but don’t
go out — cook it yourself.”

Marisa Frost, senior, agreed. She
thinks the best Valentine’s Day giﬁ
is food. When pressed to be more
speciﬁc, she qualified it by saying
“anything but soup; and nothing
you consume with a straw — that’s
not sexy.”

Junior Jeff Mitchell, quite the Don
Juan, suggests that the best way to ro-
mance a girl is to “take her to some cul-
tural event.” A poem is the way to a
woman’s heart insists sensitive man
Geofﬁey Haydon, sophomore.

Whatever your style, Valentine’s
Day presents a unique opportunity
to make spur-of-the—moment moves
fqr that special someone.

 

    

PAGE 4

 

REsuL1's

Men’s Basketball (9-10)

Mon.: W&L 57
Va. Wesleyan 68

Wed.: W&L 57
Bridgewater 53

Sat.: W&L 70
E. Mennonite 87

Worrien’s Basketball

(9-11)

Tue.: W&L 69
E&H 79

Thur: W&L 65
Va. Wesleyan 74

Sat.: Lynchburg 48
W&L 55
Wrestling

Saturday: Finished third of
three teams at Va. State
Tournament

AHEAD

Monday

Men’s Basketball -
Randolph-Macon

7:30 p.m., Warner Center

Tuesday

Women’s Basketball -
at E. Mennonite, 7:00 p.m.
Women's Swimming —
Hollins

6:30 p.m., Warner Center

Wednesday
Men’s Basketball —-
at Lynchburg, 7:30 p.m.

Thursday

Women’s Basketball —
Hollins

7:00 p.m., Warner Center

Saturday

Men’s Basketball —
at Roanoke, 7:30 p.m.
Women's Basketball -
at Roanoke, 4:30 p.m.
Men’s Track -

at Va. Tech Invitational.

Sunday
Women’s Track —
at Dickinson Invitational

Give your intramural or
club team’s pictures
and results to

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂliil

Drop them in our mailbox in the University Center

Women take three-
game lead for last
playoff spot

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—"“"""""“""‘? STAFF WRHER

The Washington & Lee women’s
basketball team came up with a huge
victory on Saturday aﬁemoon at the
Warner Center as they defeated the
Lynchburg College Homets 55-48. The
win snapped the Generals’ four—game
losing streak and put them one step
closer to securing a birth in the ODAC
tournament.

Of the eleven teams that compete in
the ODAC in women’s basketball, only
eight qualify for the toumament. W&L
(6-1 1 ODAC, 9-1 1 overall) now stands
in eighth place in the ODAC and has a
three-garne lead in the win column over
ninth place Lynchburg (3-1 1 ODAC, 4-
13 overall).

The Generals got off to a fast start
and led 20-8 midway through the first
half but soon ran into problems against
the Homets’ zone press. The Generals
went scoreless for over 8:00 and
Lynchburg closed out the half with a
20-4 run which gave the Hornets a 28-
24 lead as Julie McClure banked in a
long three-pointer at the buzzer.

In the second half, the Generals came
storming back to take the lead behind
the hot shooting ofjunior Amber Hinkle
and sophomore Ansley Miller and led
Lynchburg 50-41 with less than ﬁve min-
utes left in the game. The Hornets then
went on a quick 7-0 spurt to cut the
Generals’ lead to 50-48 withl :57 remain-
ing, but the Generals scored the last ﬁve
points of the game to come away with
the victory.

The Generals, ranked first in the na-
tion in free-throw shooting, shot 10-1 1
from the line including a pair of clutch

free throws from Hinkle in the final
minute of the game. Hinkle lead the way

for the Generals with 17 points despite
turning the ball over eight times, and
Miller had 15. Heather McLandlish
scored a game-high 20 points and 16
rebounds for the Hornets in the losing
effort. The Hornets shot a dismal 21

percent from the ﬁeld in the second half
and shot only 26 percent for the game.

The Generals dropped a pair of
games on the road earlier in the week,
losing to Emory & Henry 79-69 on Tues-
day night and Virginia Wesleyan 74-65
on Thursday night.

On Tuesday night at E&H, the Gen-
erals led 60-50 with 11:19 leﬁinthe game
before the Wasps put together a 29-9
run to pick up the win. Miller led the
way for the Generals with 18 points and
shot 8-11 from the field. Three other
Generals finished in double digits:
Hinkle had 16, junior Chrissy Burghardt
had 13, and senior captain Tonia Dean
had 13 points and 9 rebounds. Jaclyn
Dickens led the way for E&H with 16
points as the Wasps improved to 5-8 in
the ODAC and 8-9 overall.

On Thursday the Generals trailed the
Marlins by as many as 10 points but
came back to takea57-56 lead with 6:00
to play. However, the Marlins outscored
the Generals 18-8 down the stretch as
Virginia Wesleyan came away with the
74-65 victory inNorfolk. Freshman Leah
Sawyer had another huge game for the
Generals as she scored a career-high 20
points on 9-13 shooting from the field.
Dean added 14 for the Generals in the
losing effort. The Generals shot a solid
55 percent from the ﬁeld for the game
but were plagued with 30 turnovers.

sports

FEBRUARY 9, 1998

PHOTO BY H01.I.1srI;R H0VEi//PH0'1'0 E[)l'l'()R

   freshman Leah Sawyer gets a few hands in her face as she
attempts a shot in W&L’s 55-48 win over Lynchburg College on Saturday.

Men’s basketball ends tough week with two losses

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
T STAFF Vt/Rnni

If a basketball game ended after the
first half, the Washington & Lee men’s
basketball team would have rode back
from Eastern Mennonite on Saturday
with a convincing upset victory over
the Royals.

The Generals seemed to do no
wrong in the first half and took a 39-32
lead into the locker room behind Se-
nior Kelly Dyer’s 15 first-half points.
Unfortunately for the Generals, there
are two halves in a basketball game
and the second half of Saturday’s

BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES. ALL
SPRINGBREAK
locations. Florida, Cancun, etc. from $89,
regster your group or be our Campus Rep.
Inter-campus programs 800-327-6013

SEMESTER ABROAD IN COSTA RICA

The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Duke University are
accepting applications For the Fall 1998 semester tor a field-oriented,
science based semester abroad program in Costa Rica. Students

earn 16 credit hours in tropical ecology, environmental science and policy,
field research methods, and Spanish language and culture.

Credits may be transferred from Duke University.

° hands-on experiential learning ° independent field project:
° cultural immersion 0 extended stays at remote field sites
' home stays - extensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application materials, contact
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Tel.: (919) 684-5774; Email: <nao@acpub.dulte.edu>

http://www.ols.dul(e.edu

Application deadline for 1998 Fall semester is

March 20, ‘I998.

‘OTIS

 

. . . A consortium of universities providing leadership in education. research
and the responsible use of natural resources in the tropics.

game was dominated by EMU.

The Royals scored 55 second-half
points against a Generals defense that
is ranked second in the nation and
went on to down the Generals 87-70 in
Harrisonburg.

In the first half the Generals trailed
the Royals 25-18 midway through the
half before going on a 21-7 run to take
the lead at halftime. Dyer ended the
half with a three-pointer at the buzzer
to give the Generals the seven-point
halﬁime lead. Dyer scored 15 points
in the ﬁrst half and ﬁnished with 26
points to lead all scorers.

EMU used a combination of deadly
three-point shooting and up tempo
play to outscore the Generals 55-31 in
the second half as the Royals im-
proved to 8-5 in the ODAC and 13-6
overall. The loss dropped the Gener-
als below the .500 mark for the first
time since December, as they now
stand at 6-7 in the ODAC and 9-10
overall.

The Royals finished the game with
four players in double digits with se-
nior guard Carey Keyes leading the
way with 21 points. Senior forward
Troy Gerber had 12 points for the Roy-

 

PH0r0 Bl’ HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

THE RIVALRY CONTINUES. W&L’s ice hockey team lost to

VMI last week, bringing W&L’s record against VMI to 0-1-1. Junior
George Urban (left) and VMI captain Matt Wilson pose after the battle.

db:

Happy Valentine’s Day!
I’m rubber. You’re glue.
l’ll always love you!
-pooh!

als and broke the 1,000 point mark for
his career. Scott Hudson added 1 1 for
the Generals and freshman Eric Owsley
had 12. The Royals shot an impres-
sive 60 percent from the field in the
second half and was 21-24 from the
free throw line.

Va. Wesleyan 68, W&L 57

W&L traveled to Norfolk on
Wednesday night to take on Virginia
Wesleyan but couldn’t get past the
Marlins as they dropped an important
ODAC battle 68-57. The Generals
trailed by double digits for most of the

second half but managed to put to-
gether a late run to pull within four
points with under 2:00 to play before
the Marlins scored the final seven
points to pull offthe 1 1-point victory.

Junior forward Jason Nickerson led
a balanced a scoring attack for Virginia
Wesleyan as he ﬁnished with 14 points
and three other Marlins ﬁnished in
double digits. Senior forward Kelly
Dyer led the way for the Generals as
he ﬁnished with 16 including 12 points
in the final 6:00 of the game. Rich
Peterson added 13 for the Generals in
the losing effort.

   

  4

1

K

is

O  ion
rial

PAGE 5’ FEB 9, 1998

A fine line between date and rape

Friday afternoon a man, who claimed to
have been identiﬁed by one of the personal
accounts in last week’s Ring-tum Phi, verbally
abused a staff member.

The man accused the woman in the article of
lying. He stressed that his conviction was not
for rape, but for sexual misconduct. The
Student Faculty Hearing Board voted unani-
mously to convict him and place him on social
probation. When he violated social probation
he was asked to leave the school and no longer
attends Washington and Lee.

The man also intimated that the Phi had
ruined his reputation and had clearly identiﬁed
him in the account.

He said, she said. It’s an old story, one often
repeated on this campus. The line becomes
especially fuzzy when alcohol or drugs are
involved.

_I Nancy Margand, professor of psychology,

said at Tuesday’s Women’s Forum, “How are
they to know if he’s telling the truth and so is
she? He may think she gave consent, she may

It think she refused, but when both are drunk, no

one can be sure.”

The Phi doesn’t want to make that call. We
just know that women across this campus are
having unwanted sexual encounters —— espe-
cially after drinking. In both accounts from last
week’s issue, alcohol was involved.

How can women keep themselves out of a
situation that could result in an unwanted
sexual encounter?

According to the experts, women need to
decide before they go out, before they drink,
what they want to do. -

A woman needs to set her limits, she needs
to know where her boundaries are before she
meets a cute intoxicated boy with a good line
and a nice look.

Women and men on this campus need to
realize that sex is not a casual act and can have
serious consequences.

If either party feels too drunk to consciously
make that decision, there’s only one real
option.

  
  

C6 
 uote of the week:

The guys beat their pledges.
The girls just give their pledges candy to make
them fat so they’ll stop stealing upper-class men.

— Anonymous Vixen

77

@112 Ring-tum lﬂlit

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editors Will Hardie
Heather McDonald
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Last Word Editor Polly Doig
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Business Manager Jill Jamieson
Assistant Business Manager Brian Rogers

Circulation Manager Matthew Craig

Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

According to
St. Hallmark

As I sit here looking at my lovely and free Washing-
ton & Lee school calendar, I can see that this upcoming
Saturday the 14'“ is a very important day. Yes, besides
being the date of the Board of Trustees Winter Meeting,
(contain your excitement), it is also Valentine’s Day.

 

Now many people think that Valentine’s Day, much
like marriage, was created by women to make men spend
money. But nothing could be further from the truth (ex-
cept maybe a White House press conference). Valentine’s
Day was actually founded by a saint -— Saint Hallmark,
later canonized' by the Catholic Church for his important
contributions in the ﬁeld of guilt.

'(note.' this word is not as cool as it sounds. It actu-
ally refers to the process of Sainthood. )

Legend has it that Hallmark was at a saints’ conven-
tion in Antwerp when he hit upon the idea of Valentine’s
Day. Now the saints were by no means the most pleasant
group in the world. Most were unshaven, wore tattered
rags for clothing, smelled like teamsters, and many had
already been beheaded.

“Wow, what a bunch of losers,” young Hallmark
thought to himself as he strolled around the lobby con-
verting the potted plants. There was St. Ethel (patron saint
of Schenectady, N.Y.), St. Eustas the Useless (patron
saint to Pat Sajak), and of course St. Saint, the patron
saint of saints. Most of them simply milled around the
convention trying to sell their own ﬁngers as holy relics.

Hallmark headed out the door and was about to hail a
cab (considered a miracle in medieval times as cabs hadn’t
been invented yet) when he noticed something coming
down from the sky. He looked up, and ’twas a miniature
Rolls Royce and eight tiny reindeer. As soon as it landed,
elves opened the door, and a jolly old fat man stepped
onto the ﬂoor. He had a white beard and a big red tuxedo,
his hair was greased back like a New Jersey Guido. His
fingers had rings and his outﬁt was slick, his name tag
read “Hello, My Name is St. Nick” (sorry).

“W Wow!” stuttered the stunned young Hallmark.
“You’re the patron saint of holidays and crass commer-
cialism! You’re not anything like the other saints. What’s
your secret?”

“I bathe regularly,” answered St. Nick, whose belly
started shaking like a bowl full of jelly as he let out a
hearty laugh.

“No, I want to know your secret to becoming a rich
and powerful saint.”

“Find a human emotion that’s pure and decent and
exploit it for all it’s worth, my boy!”

So, after an unsuccessful attempt to ﬁnd a holiday
based on “I just want to be friends,’ Hallmark began
Valentine’s Day as a celebration of romance. The heart
soon became the symbol of Valentine’s Day, due to the
erroneous medieval notion that love originates  theheart.

Scientists now know that feelings of love originate in
the wallet. And so now every Valentine’s Day, the men
of the world must buy ﬂowers and candy for their sweet-
hearts, and take them out for expensive candlelight din-
ners at expensive restaurants where expensive waiters
recommend the expensive clams in expensive sauce. Men
go along with this in anticipation of later rewards, and
I’m not talking about the frequent ﬂyer miles they’re go-
ing to rack up by using credit cards.

Of course, this year Valentine’s Day falls over Wash-
ington Break, when most of us will probably be back
home. So, ladies, you may not have your W&L
Valentine’s dream date with Chadwick C. Chiselchest
IV after all. However, you may end up getting a call from
Bobby Mudd back home. Sure, you remember good 01’
Bobby, he sat behind you in homeroom. Now he’s got
three kids, twelve communicable diseases and a sweet
job down at Arby’s. He’d like to take you out for a ro-
mantic night in the back seatof his ’74 Chevy Caprice.
Who ever said that romance is dead?

15 Minutes of Shame

 
  
  

Press Secretary Mike McCurry’s worst nightmare: A Chinese
multi-millionaire real—estate mogul with a penchant for Big Macs and oral sex.

F'm_§T‘ WE'LL I-lA\f’E
ccprpgﬁt THEN WE LL-
55-r To rue 6°00
S’I’uFF[

Swensen put
out by policy

This tenn, one of my four classes is every student’s
dream an independent study. There are no lectures to sit
through, no set time to work, and most important, the free-
dom to choose what you want to study. The only class
requirement (besides a lengthy paper; well, nothing’s per-
fect) is that I meet with my professor once a week or so to
update him on my progress and ask him any questions
about or explain any problems with my research.

;F}rorn a Bar Stool

5En'c Swensen ’98

   

So, one day last week after lunch, I went up to his of-

. ﬁ¢¢.t0 see if he had f<.>.11I..1..d...S0.me ethics. codes .1 r1.ee.sic:.d for -

my research. I knocked on his door. No answer. His door
was locked. Only then did I notice the sign hanging from
his door. It read:

President Elrod ’s recent edict prohibiting smoking in
this oﬂice has forced me to work elsewhere as much as
possible. I will, of course, remain readily available, espe-
cially to all students. This office will remain open.‘ Ap-
pointments may be made through Mrs. Murchison  I
regret this minor change as much as I lament the policy
that forced it.

Louis W. Hodges

On a selﬁsh level, of course, this affects me person-
ally, since it will make it somewhat more difﬁcult for me
to see Professor Hodges. I’ve talked with him in his office
four or ﬁve times this term, and only once have I made an
appointment. Unfortunately, as much as I’m sure Profes-
sor Hodges will try to remain accessible, the fact is that
nothing is as accessible as an on-campus ofﬁce.

More important than my inconvenience, however, is
the policy that leads a faculty member to make this kind

 

of decision. I realize that President Elrod was only look-
ing out for the _general health and well-being of the W&L
community when he banned smoking from every build-
ing on campus except the smoking lounges in the library.
I’m not going to debate the dangers of secondhand smoke.
I hate breathing in smoke as much as anyone.

The real problem with this policy is that it codiﬁes
something that we as a community should be able to handle
with common courtesy and respect. Banning smoking from
public places is one (entirely understandable) thing. But
faculty ofﬁces are essentially private places where others
stop to visit.

When a faculty member is alone in his ofﬁce with the
door closed, why shouldn’t he be able to smoke? I don’t
understand how that could bother anyone. If a student or
someone else stops by, all that faculty member has to do is
have the courtesy to stop smoking if it bothers his visitor.

One of the things frequently touted by W&L is how eas-
ily reachable professors are for students. Generally speak-

..-iv? '

C"

E
I
3
i.

‘c
L

ing, I’ve found that to be true. The University should be 

doing everything it can to make professors easier to see, not
tougher, especially when another solution is available.

Letters are not enough during controversy 

Letters to the editor will not resolve the controversy
over Washington and Lee’s new smoking policy.

Like the other letters that preceded it, Patrick
Bradshaw’s letter in the Feb. 4 Trident conveys the
dissatisfaction some feel for the smoking policy. Those

    

.., ed Brick Row
{_ David Balslg 99

letters, however, do not do as much to resolve the
controversy as would a public meeting between the
proponents of each side of the issue.

In any campus debate or crisis, letters to the editor
are helpful in several ways. First, they make it known
publicly that people are upset and that current policies
are not unanimously agreed upon. Second, they
delineate various aspects of an issue. Third, they

I   What is your favoritc Valc1jLi1'ic’:;-2

“My dad used to send me ﬂowers from
a ‘secret admirer.’ It was really sweet.”

— Ashley Penkava ’O0

 

“The guy I was dating showed up on my
doorstep with the cliche tedddy bear and
longstem red rose.”

establish representatives for opposing sides of an issue.

In the case of the smoking policy controversy, professor
Louis Hodges’ letter in the Jan. 19 Phi and Patrick
McCormack’s article in the Jan. 26 Phi accomplish those
tasks. They are sincere and direct. They move the controversy
towards its resolution.

In contrast, sarcastic, insulting letters that deal indirectly
with a topic accomplish little. They communicate the authors’
dissatisfaction but do nothing to solve the problems. Such
letters are often little more than an excuse to take pot shots at
others from the safety of newspaper print. It’s like telling
someone you don’t like them without giving them the
opportunity to tell you the same thing.

Bradshaw’s letter is an example of this. If he has a
personal problem with President Elrod, he should
personally talk to President Elrod in a manner suitable for
addressing the president of a university.

But sincere letters, while helpful, are not enough to

boatdock.”
~— Shay Ansley ’00 I

 

“I made my girlfriend a romantic din-
ner and we had a picnic on her

—— Derek Dodson ’01

resolve a controversy. One-way communication between
opposing parties does not allow the debate and eventual
compromise needed to resolve a disagreement.

So, in order to end the controversy over the smoking
policy, we need representatives of both sides of the issue
to meet with the intention of establishing a reasonable
compromise. I suggest that Hodges and President Elrod
hold a public debate, using Hodges letter to the editor to
establish the issues which would be discussed. The debate
should include suggestions for alternatives to the no
smoking policy.

The debate should be held in public because the smoking
policy aﬂ°ects more than just professors who smoke. Students,
who depend on professors to be their advisers and for help
with their classes, need to know that they can count on their
professors to be around when they need them.

More letters to editors will not help, but a meeting in
Northen Auditorium will.

I3:-13' T1’l.Cfll(i)l‘\\,_”.?)

  

“I got a rose from a random person in
class once. It was sweet.”

— Carly Blakelock ‘O1

.-

.".
‘ ~

co-
4~

-v

'.-'e'o':'. ‘o'a-To .-re-'01‘; ‘c 1'0‘: ..::e:o.c .«..

 

 

.v

v ~« .9 vs «-x-».v.«-1 v:.vv.w,'v.- .~

«~2:¢-p -

QV'9.O

«
4

9329: . . ‘ .~a.v:0.»:.ev.9.i.9.¢.4:_4.v.v.w.v.!_-:.v.v

 

 

PAGE 6

ahit of umor,

BY ERICA PRossER

 

_ STAFF Wrzrrnz
So, how about that Washington and Lee debate team?
What debate team? you ask.

The one that’s one of the best-kept secrets in the
school’s history.

The team began in the 19505. When Professor Halford
Ryan, who teaches public speaking, came to W&L in 1970,
he took over as coach and has run the show ever since.

“I really wish that more people knew how much fun de-
bate is,” said freshman Mary Payne, a team member. She
says the experience is incredible, though the team is small.

“There are four, ﬁve or six members on the team at a
time,” Ryan said. “This year’s team has been really suc-
cessful.” Ryan said that each team member has brought
home an award this season. How could such a strong
W&L program fall through the publicity cracks?

The team is mostly unknown because it is not open to
the general student population. Debating rules call for
the Lincoln-Douglas debate style, so students must take
Public Speaking 203 to learn how it’s done.

‘‘It’ s a one—on—one policy debating style,” Ryan said. “The
afﬁmiative [side of the issue] must show the need, the plan,

 

‘£9

By Alex Christensen

Phi Movie Critic
Lots of movies are good. Quite a few are great. Mostly my
ratings for movies come to me after some consideration after
the movie is over, or even after I have seen the movie two or
three times. Then there are the movies you begin to feel after
the first ﬁve minutes are going to be great. Indi-
vidual moments are great. You find yourself pulled
in immediately. Sometimes the feeling turns out to
be unjustified: in the case of “Good Will Hunting,”
not only is the whole ﬁlm fun and exciting to watch,
but you get so totally emotionally involved by the
end, you want to spend even more time with the
characters. It’s a great escape. You don’t want it to
end. Only “Jackie Brown” felt similar this year.
“Good Will Hunting” is the story of Will Hunt-
ing (Matt Damon), a janitor at MIT who sneaks
around solving physics brain-teasers when he’s not
starting ﬁghts or cutting faux intellectuals down
to size. Despite not really being a very intrinsi-
cally likeable character, something about Will and
his friends (Ben and Casey Afﬂeck, Cole Hauser)
pulls you in. There’s something more going on
than a bunch of useless smart-aleck tough guys
making trouble. Something even more than the
usual Hollywood cliché of“the genius.”
What it is, fmally, is family. These guys with nothing to
hang on to at least have each other. That’s the heart of the story.
The complications set in when Will makes his mathemati-
cal genius known. By working out a difficult problem set up
by the faculty as a test for the most talented students, Will
brings himself to the attention of professor and Gerald Lambeau

Colonnade Club

\/P~L6NTwtE’é- PM 4409 .

MvMM~4,MoMM~1! Loolé MALL M‘/
vkuemwrset eveemue caves ME‘,

  

    
 
     

ANYONE Ex-BE.
909%; 5-Ave

ﬂltls

‘L.A. Story.”

   

6L0
\lAlr-urn r.\r-( I

and the solvency [proof that the plan will work].” The policy to
be debated changes every year, and students are responsible
for research and planning that goes into their strategies.
Colleges and universities across the country host tour-
naments for competing schools, and the tournament struc-
ture is complicated. Students compete in four to six pre-
liminary rounds upon arrival. For each round, the student
has one judge and two scores: one made up of speaker
point totals, and one that names the student winner or
loser of the debate. Based on the preliminary win-lose
scores, the student may advance to the elimination rounds.
“The student usually needs a 4-2 win record [for their
rounds] to break into elimination rounds,” Ryan said. “The
downside is that there’s no distinction between varsity,
junior varsity, and novice experience levels in the rounds.”
Elimination rounds progress through quarter ﬁnals,
semiﬁnals and ﬁnals. Only one school wins, but team
awards go to all schools that make elimination rounds.
The elimination rounds feature three judges, who are
coaches from other competing teams.
The fun doesn’t end here. Team members who make elimina-
tion rounds in early tournaments qualify for the national
tournament, the National Forensic Association (NFA) Na-

Mrs r

(Stellan Skarsgard). Lambeau gets him a deal to avoid jail
on an assault charge if he agrees to spend time develop-
ing his mathematical ability with Lambeau and to see a
therapist to help him deal with his aggression.

Also complicating things is his burgeoning relationship
with Skylar (Minnie Driver), a charming and beautiful British

 

Miramax Pictures

Harvard student. All of the threads come together when Will
enters therapy with Sean Maguire (Robin Williams), a psy-
chology professor at a local community college, who was
Lambeau’s college roommate. Maguire is dealing with his
own emotional issues, primarily the death of his wife. Will
goes straight for that pain in an effort to keep himself at a

last 

Debate tearn’s silent sueeess

 
    
 

ITLDULD We t39ra~J- IPA!-60
ﬂzétﬂ WELL F0? M0 011‘
/~ '\ GlZw°<V9l'~’0l‘.’l’HE9l&929T
<z3>[<EI>l bﬁﬁf-lN'TH‘59t~1'l'lFE-6l4°\99
*‘ ' eez\rrMe A 6?¢Nknow,9vr
Wow ‘T 1’l’<lNl4 myoma
5. FWNI7 NF Mbeaer tr
6 WP62N‘T LIKE \‘D QENT
ONE 172 Mtwaue AND
TI?-190172 ??€rEND
14%? I N3l'UALL\1 trkv
A one... Lute icomiwew
ooudb LMTYEM1.

    
    
 
 
 
   
   

  
 
   
  
     

 

 

FEBRUARY 9, 1998

tionals, in April. Ryan said that quali-
ﬁcation for nationals is usually the
main goal of the competition season.

Five students qualiﬁed for Nation-
als this year. The team consists of
Lance Clack, Martin Milner, Mary
Payne, Kathleen Curameng, and
Joyce Lee, and all managed to make it
at least as far as the quarter ﬁnals in a
tournament. So far this year, the team
has competed in four tournaments.

The lack of publicity doesn’t
bother Ryan.

“I couldn’t handle lots of people
being on the team,” he says, adding
that the team works as well as it does
for this school because of its small
size. The team turnover is reasonable, too; some people
quit the team when the class ends, but others stay on the
team for years after the term has ended. These are the
participants who get good at debating.

“It’s a skill,” Ryan said. “The longer you’re in it, the
better you get.”

Grind W27] Hmimg

e marir

distance from his own pain, but Maguire is not so damaged
that he has forgotten how to help people.

Tl1ere’s little doubt at this point that Matt Damon will be
nominated for Best Actor, Williams for Best Supporting Ac-
tor, and “Good Will Hunting” for Best Picture. It’s always
satisfying when popular support and genuine storytelling
grace come together in such a way that both build
upon each other. Not like how “Titanic” is being
swept along to Oscar glory, or how obscure act-
ing turns sometimes make it onto the lists of the
best of the year. Public attention and critical ac-
claim have converged memorably around this ﬁlm.

Damon and Williams are particularly good. There
are a few high—octane moments when you would
expect even Keanu Reeves could have pulled off
the emotional intensity needed, but most of their
performances are in little moments when they sim-
ply do little things the audience could not have an-
ticipated. Also memorable are Minnie Driver as Will
Hunting’s love interest and Ben Aﬁleck (“Chasing
Amy”) as Chuckie, Will’s best friend, who supports
him more than Will had any right to expect.

Damon and Afﬂeck also wrote the screenplay,
a remarkably well balanced and nuanced piece of
work. They won the Golden Globe for Best Screen-
play and seem poised to repeat at the Oscars.

Director Gus Van Sant (“My Own Private Idaho,” “To Die
For”) translates the screenplay with aplomb. The images
live up to their potential. Views of Boston, a bafﬂing love
scene between Damon and Driver are particularly striking,
as well as the way he visually suggests the relationship
between Will’s genius and his troubled background.

vALeNrwE% wt -14 01 4

I1’ WAC; 6» eweer ae
DAV ID 173 wt Ma.
maze 6l+vooL Mela-
T00 am» He em" 3,
HVNW4 E9???-E.
W<9l49'r?2ALL Wamce

Wt? /’<rErHeM M.
OH WELL’ H2614
cAw\?i-ac, Foe

     
  
    
  
  
   

  

THE W&L Debate Team I unsung heroes: Mary Payne, Kathleen Curameng,
Joyce Lee, Lance Clack, and Martin Milner. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO E01701:

   

Ryan said that research experience and adversarial speak-
ing skills gained from debating come in handy for the future.
“Law schools look favorably on debaters,” he said.

Those who participate never walk away empty-handed
from the experience. ~

“It is a good way to contribute to W&L and have ﬁrn at
the same time,” said sophomore team member Lance Clack.
“I wish we had three or four more people on the team, but
the ﬁve we have now are all dedicated and skilled.”

Payne was even more enthusiastic about her experience.

“This was an activity that I seriously wanted to continue
in college,” she said. She said that the friendships she has
made, both with members of the W&L team and with mem-
bers of other teams, will last a lifetime. She also said that
the hard work is worth it for the experience of debating.

“[W&L] debate is a wonderful activity that more people
should know about,”said Payne.

SEVEN

MONDAY 335 4:30 p.m. Lecture: “Chartres
Cathedral and the Medieval Mind,” John
Kevem, Northen Auditorium. 51¢ 7:00 p.m.
U.S. Air Force Heritage of America Band,
Lenfest Center. ’~'>I¢ 7:30 p.m. Men’s basket-
ball vs. Randolph-Macon at the Warner Cen-
ter. 131‘? 8 p.m. Outing Club presents Kayak
Roll Class, Doremus Pool. 23¢ TUl$DAY
*1’? 6-10 p.m. Ballroom dancing lessons ev-
ery hour on the hour, in Fairfax Lounge. $40
for six hour—long private lessons. Practice for
F.D.! *1‘? 6:30 p.m. Women’s swimming vs.
Hollins in Warner Center. ii‘? 8 p.m. Theater
Series: “Crimes of the Heart” in Lenfest’s
Johnson Theatre. >145 WEDNESDAY #15? 6-
10 p.m. Private ballroom dancing lessons ev-
ery hour in Fairfax. 393? 7 :00 p.m. Outing Club
Meeting for February Break Trip 1% 7:30
p.m. CONTACT presents Eugene Genovese
in Lenfest’s Keller Theatre #1‘? DJ Party at Phi
Delt.  THURSDAY 11¢ 7:00 p.m.
Women’s basketball vs. Hollins in Warner
Center. >1‘: MSA presents Kevin Powell of
MTV’s “Real World.” 51¢ 8:00 p.m. “A Sci-
ence Center Serenade,” featuring the Univer-
sity Chorus and the University Chamber Sing-
ers, Science Center. $5 FRIDAY $5 Wash-
ington Holiday: conveniently begins after
classes! Have a great break! 1%‘-

By Hollister Hovey

VALENTINE’? UM ~l‘l ab

H64 W«1%"\—L¢r'9
ewes! I'LL Na/ee-
Lér qou A/><u_ ME
Yovtt evteeiavv.
I'LL Nﬁvéﬂ WWI?
MDNB1 0N WW, I'LL
TELL EVQIONE WV
600‘? ‘lav We IN 9917,
l ILEALM t7aN'T1/114%

 
    
    
  
 

  

   
  
 

   
  
   

 

--.~.........x-uhﬂvuauaa-mwzmv - xo'2L..... I '

I

