.;AM.I:-e  I.r:YI3m~ uaum

~‘”‘l.3.HINt37‘r)N 3, rgﬁ
- » ‘ _ - UMVH%s§‘ny
‘ EXINQI QM, VA

"AR 2 4 19:,

Men’s lacrosse posts

   
  

 

The P121‘ wants to know what
students think about printing
the names of students
arrested for a DUI. Read the
editorial and respond to:
pl1i@wlu.edu

Students may have an
an important
overtime 8-7 victory
against the

Gettysburg Bullets.
PAGE 4
Monday

U11 ‘tiling-tum hi   

aster plan to
solve multiple
campus needs

BY JASON ZACHER

4 LL -easier time Winning a

pub in Ireland than

getting Dave Matthews
Band tickets.

..|
«
l-

l l 
ll!

U)
I-
M
O
D.
(D

   

PAGE 5

Bulk Rare
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

T

Washington and Lee University
«VOLUME 100, NUMBER 17

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s rash of construction and renovation is not over yet.
The University still has more than $53 million worth more to complete.

With the ﬁnal approval of the ﬁve-year plan by the Board of Trustees, W&L
took the first step toward making many rumors reality. The proposals in the
ﬁve-year plan include a parking garage, sorority housing, a new art and music
building, improvements to athletic facilities and a University commons. Uni-
versity officials are hoping that the sorority houses and the parking garage can
be completed by the fall of 2000.

W&L officials went before the Lexington City Planning Commission on
Thursday night to receive a ﬁnal approval for the structures. A decision from
the city is expected sometime in early May.

“The University has worked from the start with cooperation from the city,”
said David Howison, dean of students. “There has been support from the city.

While W&L is exempt from standard zoning by the city, the University must
still go through the city for approval of construction projects.

The specifics of many of the capital improvements are still being ﬁnalized,
but the basic plans have been decided.

Art & Music: A $15.4 million art and music facility will be built between the
Warner Center and the Lenfest Center. The art department will receive a 35,000
sq. ft. facility that includes studios and galleries. A 31,400 sq. ft. area will be
dedicated to the music department, including a 200-seat recital hall. DuPont
hall will be renovated for administrative ofﬁces.

“The art and music building is a high priority,” Howison said. “At a liberal
arts university, there should be first-rate facilities for the arts.”

Even though current music and art students will not benefit from the new
facilities, there is excitement about the proposal.

_ _“_It’s deﬁnitely needed. M We need to grow as a department,” said Josh Harvey,
ajunior music major. “The composition department needs to be updated and
expanded, and Lenfest is amazing, but it will be better to have a small recital
auditorium.

University Commons: Plans for a 90,000 sq. ft. commons are still being
made, but it will probably be located on the existing Warner Center parking lot
near Graham-Lees Dorm. Some of the ideas being considered for inclusion in
the commons include: meeting rooms, the bookstore, a post office, recreation

QSEEPLANPAGEZ

IFC to put cork in
hard liquor bottle

H01.L1srER HOVEY/PHOID EDITOR
Monday Night Raw, Monday Ni-
tro and Thursday Thunder
every Saturday morning on
Channel 2 and WLUR.

NWA BUENA VISTA STYLE 

David Jerico (standing) prepares wrestling match in Buena Vista on
to put “The Lady Killer” into a Saturday night.
‘I ﬁgure four leg lock at an N WA Former WWF and WC W member

Greg “The Hammer" Valentine and Ax
of WWF fought in the title bout.

Wrestling fans can tune into Steve
Purrell '5 wrestling commentary about

A few good candidates

Wanted

BY COURTNEY MILLER
*  EXECUﬁ\E EDITOR

When the class of 2001 head
to the polls next Monday, they

Exceeding occupancy limits threatens safety of students

Popular bands draw big
crowds to frat basements

containing the ﬂood and pulling the plug on the band’s

won’t just be electing two Execu-
tive Committee representatives.
The individual with the most
votes will also replace the class’
current EC representative, who
left school due to chronic fatigue.
‘ Tyler Jorgensen, the current
Freshmen EC representative, re-
turned to his home town of
Houston, Texas, on Saturday
 March 9.
‘ He is not expected to return.
“I believe he is out indeﬁ-
nitely, which means there is a
good possibility he won’t be
here during the spring term,” said
Chris Baldwin, EC vice-president.
Petitions for class EC repre-
sentatives, presidents, vice-
presidents and Student Judicial
4 Council members are now avail-
able in front of Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center.
The petitions must be re-

,’ CDSEE VOTE PAGE 2

BY ERIC SWENSEN

STAFF WRITER
he Breakfast Club, a popular 1980s cover band,
often packs the basements of Washington and
Lee’s fraternity houses. At times the crowd be-

comes so dense students have little or no room to move.

When do these crowds become dangerous? Can there

be too many people in a fraternity basement?

Students were packed tightly enough on Jan. 23, for
students attending a Chi Psi band party to crowd surf.
One of the crowd surfers, an unidentified W&L male,
grabbed an exposed pipe along Chi Psi’s ceiling and

equipment. While some students panicked and
screamed, there was no stampede of students to the
exits, and no one was injured.*

But the problems presented at Chi Psi that night lead
to an interested question: When is a party too big, cre-
ating a dangerous situation for students out only for a
good time?

Most public places, like arenas, clubs and even
schools, have occupancy limits which are determined
asa buildings is designed to ensure a safe and speedy
evacuation in case of a ﬁre of other emergency.

 

pulled it down.
two inches of water.
Berland said.

the plug immediately.

said Berland.

Stagnant, dirty water, which had apparantly been in
the pipe since the mid-’70s, ﬂooded the basement with

“Everyone panicked and screamed, probably because
there were so many drunk people there,” senior Kelsay

The most immediate danger was the electric current
from the band’s equipment. Fortunately, the band pulled

“I’m just surprised that no one got electrocuted,”

Fortunately that night, a disaster was averted. Mem-
bers of Chi Psi and the Breakfast club acted quickly,

So what are the occupancy limits for the fratemtiy
party rooms? Not many people know.

In many cities, ﬁre marshals are responsible for de-
termining occupancy limits.

Not in Lexington.

A Lexington ﬁreman, when asked how the city fire
marshal could be reached, said, “Are you kidding?”,
and suggested that the Lexington Building & Zoning
Administration would know.

Eric Schetzler, an employee of the Building & Zon-
ing Administration, said’ that each fraternity house
should have its occupancy limit posted in the base-
merit.

(I)sat~coDIasmc.-.2

. Students experiment at gym pajama party

BY SARH MELDRUM
——--————‘STAr=r WRITER
ome students brought mov-
ies. Others brought food.
I_ Junior Erika Woodson
brought some lab equipment.
“Dr. Wielgus allowed me to steal
his heart — model for the teaching ex-

j ercise!” she said.

' The Washington and Lee students
joined a group of girls from Maury
River Middle School for a lock-in Feb.
27. The slumber party included middle

1 school and college members of Women
in Technology and Science (W.I.T.S.).
W.I.T.S. brings the girls from
Maury River Middle School about
twice a month to run science experi-

7 ments with them.

 

The group was formed through the
efforts ofjunior geology major Erin
Kraal. Kraal wanted to provide
middle school girls with science and
mathematics role models. Kraal or-
ganized the first lab experiment in
the fall of 1996.

The group spent the night in the
gym. “We watched movies, swam, ate
subs and donuts, played volleyball,
got to know each other, and discussed
the pros and cons of Leonardo
DiCaprio,” said Woodson.

The group originally intended to
have a yoga instructor come in, but
she pulled a muscle and instead sent a
video.

Both Doremus Gymnasium and
Warner Center remained open all night

with volleyball, basketball and badmin-
ton nets set up, and the racquetball
courts were also open. A midnight feast
included a six-foot sub and make—your-
own sundae bar. The group also had
use of the swimming pool for an hour.

At eleven o’clock, Woodson ran her
experiment measuring pulse rates. She
gave a brief lecture about how the heart
works and how blood circulates through
it, then they measured their pulse rates.

They did jumping jacks for three min-
utes. “Man, we almost passed out,”
Woodson said.

“I was like, can’t we stop at two?
Some ofthe girls actually stopped. It’s
not every day sixth graders are forced
to do vigorous exercises hours after
their bedtimes.”

Professor of Biology Dr. Wielgus
donated the stethoscopes, stop-
watches and sphygmomanometers
(for blood pressure) the group used
for the experiment.

“Departments have donated ma-
terials and lab space, and individual
professors have donated their time,”
junior Laura Goodwin said. “I think
that Erin is a genius for having come
up with this.”

“The professors are awesome,”
Kraal said. “We are very grateful for
their support. We are also grateful
for the support of Mimi Elrod, who
funds some aspects of the programs
and is always available for advice.”

“I think that when it was over,

(1) SITE xvrrs rm. 2

 After almost a year of
BYOB, the IFC prepares
to vote on another big
change tomorrow night.

BY KATHIE SOROKA
—jj——STAI=r WRITER

The Inter-fraternity Council
hopes to reduce alcohol-related in-
cidents on Tear Night by ofﬁcially
banning hard alcohol.

According to IFC President Ia-
son Callen, the initiative started with
this year’s Bid Night, when two
freshmen went to hospital.

The IFC called an emergency
meeting the next day and decided to
informally ban hard alcohol for the
upcoming Tear Night.

Although Rush is supposed to
be completely dry, Tear Night is not
technically a part of Rush, since the
pledges already have their bids.

“It worked out well. It was a re-
ally quiet Tear Night,” Callen said.
He does not feel the ban on hard
alcohol was the only reason, but that
it was a definite factor.

Former Sigma Phi Epsilon Presi-
dent Glenn Miller had mixed feelings
on the matter.

“I think banning [hard alcohol]
on Tear Night is a good idea, but
I’m afraid everybody might push
their Tear Night activities to a dif-
ferent night,” he said.

Some are skeptical about the
IFC’s ability to enforce such a
policy.

“There are people in the houses
over 21,” said freshman Susan Slim.
“How are they going to stop them?”

Callen responded to such criti-
cisms.

‘‘I’m not naive  lfsome frat mem-
ber really wants to give a pledge
brother a shot. we’re probably not
going to ﬁnd out  But, I do believe

it will be toned down.”

Callen cites the receptiveness of
the fraternity presidents as support.

“If all the frat presidents were op-
posed to the idea, then I’d think
maybe we’d better not try it, but they
were receptive to it. So, I’m opti-
mistic.”

“I think there would be less
chance of people ending up in the
infirmary,” said Scott Cameron, a Pi
Kappa Alpha pledge.

Some freshmen are less optimis-
tic.

“I don’t think it’s going to make
much ofa difference,” Phi Gamma
Delta pledge Mike Crittenden said.

Freshman Dana Early agreed. “If
you want to get trashed, you can

get trashed drinking hard alcohol or '

by drinking beer,” said Early. Fresh-
man Meredith Bryk holds the same
perspective.

“I think on Tear Night, people are
going to get drunk no matter what,”
said Bryk. “It just means all that
much more beer consumed.”

Bryk also questioned how well
the policy could be enforced. “Un-
less there is someone enforcing [the
policy] in each house, I don’t think
the houses would really voluntarily
adhere to it.”

Junior Jay Pfeifer, a Kappa Sigma,
disagreed.

“Generally, I support [the
policy],” he said. “Hard alcohol is
the most dangerous of all.

Pfeifer feels this danger manifests
itself when students drink shots.

“You can still have fun drinking
beer. Kids usually go to the hospi-
tal after doing shots, not from beer,”
added Pfeifer.

Fraternity presidents will vote on
the ban of hard alcohol tomorrow
night. Callen hopes that “most presi-
dents will take the high ground and
realize that it’sjust one night.”

    

PAGE 2

 PLAN

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

areas, dining services and ofﬁces. Security and other stu-
dent support facilities will also be relocated. Price tag for

the commons: $19.4 million

Sorority Housing: Five sorority houses will be built on
the North side of Woods Creek near Wilson Field. Each
will be 80,000 sq. ft. and have room for 20 women. The ﬁve

houses will cost $8.2 million.

Athletic improvements: The University is also plan-
ning on making $2.3 million in improvements to athletic
facilities. Plans include an Astroturf ﬁeld, renovations to
Wilson Field and the Pavilion and relocation ofthe base-

ball ﬁeld.

Parking Garage: W&L wants to build a four or ﬁve
level parking garage that will total 450-550 spots. A bridge
will also be constructed to link the garage to the sorority
houses. The garage will be designed to accomodate the
loss of parking elsewhere due to new construction and

IICWS

Also in the long-terrn plan is a 90,000 sq. ft. ﬁeld house
so teams can practice indoors during inclement weather.
While not included in the five-year plan, the University
feels that this too is an important addition.

Some students expressed surprise at spending $2.3 mil-
lion on athletic facilities, but Howison argues that there is

strong support for the facilities.

“The consensus isthat our athletic facilities are, in many
areas, not competitive with top Division 111 programs,”
Howison said. “The Astroturf ﬁeld has strong support. A

turfed, lighted field has extended uses with little

maintenence.”

The men’s lacrosse team was forced to play last
weekend’s game against Courtland State at the University
of Virginia in Charlottesville because rain made Wilson ﬁeld

unplayable. Current facilities are tight when considerations

are made for varsity, club and intramural sports.

Liz Borges, a freshman lacrosse player, hopes to be able
to use the new athletic facilities.

“It’ll be better when it rains,” Borges said. “We’ve been
inside a few times, and it would have been better for the

should cost $6.4 million. team if we could have played outdoors.”
,/T"O’\, . . /‘
  Occu anc Llmlts 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 Beta Theta Pi 336 CONTINUED FROM PAGE1
Schnetzler, for his part, was unable Chi Psi* Wrlfed Tuesda)’ (35 Pa_‘“°k’5 Day)
to ﬁnd the occupancy limits for any of Kappa Alpha** hurmg the Rhles Meetmg at 5 pm‘
the fraternity basements. He said that Ka a Si man: In the EC Um_VerSh3,' Center room’
W&L’s Buildings and Grounds depait- pp g . The °1e°"°“ Wl“ be M°“da.‘/a
Lambda Ch‘ AIPI1-3 324 March 23 and the run—off Tuesda
ment would have the answers. Re- _ * y’
peated calls to Scott Beebe, Director Ph‘ Delta Theta March 26'_ _
of B&G and March Fontenot Frater— Phi Gamma D€1ta* Accordmg to Baldwm’ 3 general
. S . f B&G’ t _ . P .* consensus was reached among mem-
$2; 8 (:1 pewlsor or were no re Phi Kappa _s1 * * bers of the EC about Jorgensen’s sud-
Only six of the ﬁfteen fraternities Ph1Kappa Slgma ' den departure‘ “The constitution
- ~ . Pi Kappa Alpha 200 mandates that we hold elections to
knew the occupancy limit of their ' _ ” _ “
house’s basement.(See box at right for P1 Kappa PI" 250 replace someone’ he Sald‘ The gen"
further information.) Sigma Alph Epsilon 418 fralhcohlsehjws W31: t°1g° %head and
The rest couln’t ﬁnd the inforrna- sigma chit en 6 e echhhs ta 6 P ace‘
tion or didn’t know. In nine ofthe fra- - A hote wlh be added to each bah
temity basements the Occupancy 1im_ Slgma Nu 300 lot indicating that the class of 2001
its were not Clearly posted Sigman Phi Epsion* is not only voting for next year’s EC
*inforrnation taken from the Janu- *Didn’t have the occupancy limit reipresematfwes’ but also for a re‘
ary 26,1998 edition of the Ring—tum Phi " re ’ “ p acemeht or 'I°rgehSeh'

  L rolled over Hollins College on Thurs- Hall Fields.

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
we’ve ever played,” Taurassi said.
Saturday, the Generals were greeted

with temperatures in the mid—40s and
winds gusting over 40 m.p.h., but
Bridgewater became W&L’s fourth vic-
tim of the season 15-6. Parker, Borges
and Taurassi all scored hat-tricks for the
Generals. Borgess also picked up three
assists, Parker had two and Taurassi
added one. Freshman Ellen Ritsch
scored twice. Senior Mary Jo Mahoney,
sophomore Katherine Riddle and fresh-
man Caroline Gee each scored one goal.

The normally sharp Generals played
uncharacteristically sloppy against
Bridgewater.

“I’m not sure we were all that intense
because of our history with
Bridgewater,” said coach Jan Hathom.

“We played like we warmed up,” said
Taurassi. “We were much more focused
on Sunday, and it showed.”

In their first win of the week, W&L

day 21-5. Nine different Generals scored
goals, led by Borges and senior Mary
J o Mahoney, who each had four goals.
Parker and Taurassi added three each.
Borges also added two assists. W&L
jumped to a 13-3 lead at halftime and
never looked back.

The ninth-rariked Generals look to
move up in the NCAA rankings aﬁer
seventh-rariked Roanoke College’s up-
set loss to Randolph-Macon 15-13 Sat-
urday. W&L now controls its own
ODAC destiny next Saturday when they
travel to Randolph-Macon for a show-
down between the only two unbeatens.
Roanoke was picked to win the ODAC
— Roanoke travels to W&L for a game
March 3 1 .

“I’m not that surprised,” Hathom
said. “I said last year that Randolph-
Macon was going to be good. It’s not
going to change anything we do.”

Before Randolph-Macon, W&L
must get past Lynchburg College on
Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. on the Liberty

 

M19"    
Stllllll  

  
   
  

 

Arie

Editors 
Managers  needeOdil*gfr”
Ring-tum Phi. . . . . .   .2.-
.one...,...*agg.go....oo.¢Cél'.

. . . .  . . . .P0litical  1
 C C . V. . . . . . . C . I. . . . 

Submit a resum  
letter by March   
the box in the IIIlIIIEI'8I_t_V  5
neuter in front of Carol    
Caulkins’ office.   I ,

Interviews will be    a

March 25. g

  

“Obviously Randolph-Macon is
paying better this year,” Taurassi
said. ‘‘We’ 11 deal with them after we
get past Lynchburg.”

 

Need 21 Disc Jockey for your next party?
Call the Mark Daughtrey DJ Service at 465-9337.

Sel'\Arig1‘neW8.LccrrrruJriTgslncel989vlA1I1fasf,dq:>erldabIe
ser\4ce,ageaTsaJndsgsIern,arldaIofgoJrfavorltepartgtunes

Pmr1ngabashaT1‘nelasfn1rlu1’e? Depending orl availabittg Marl<can

beatgoupartg sehp, andbereadg toplag vutrin a coupleof
hours of gour cal.
The Mark Daughtrey DJ Service — Lexington

463-9337

  

MARCH 16, 1998

EEILETTERS

i   TINUEDIFRO/MPAGLE5,

 

;.Ce"cIIine and articleon
Editor,  I

.1;

60st.

 
 

~.«

  
  
  
    
 
  
  
       
   
 
    

4 ~ g  dining hallworker at Washington and Lee
~ U verjsity,IwishHtofﬁ1lin the gaps that the Ring-tum
ti] cant in their. story, “D-hail workers upset at

x: iegito quote any ofthe dining hall
akirigfithardyfor me to believel a headline that ' I ’

‘  I resent thgeir feelings toward Fancy Dress.

 ’ ~ 1 W yvorléérs werenot upset athaving

tickets. In the pastisome of the, ~
9ﬂ?’°1§:¢1‘3°Y°<3 gétﬁng their
‘om the kitchen staff who did not

. fén,al$1¢T’.P51i¢y Was a shoiik
hall unable to attend , g ,
dad  i,hrough.,.the ’
.Pit¥1°.i¥sé:ai1i the pﬁvilegeé I  ‘
rah I I " 

I hope that in the future, the Ring-tum Phi will be
more careful when it prints headline stories about a

group of people that it never even interview.

FD cost» 4
’ with Jerry Springer article
DearEditor,

almost gets Springer” article last week, Kathryn

, . since it was pretty slow the week after FD. Aﬂer
reading the ﬁnal story, I am sorry to see that

Mayurnik printed the story she wanted toprint,
2 , slantingthe article to create controversy.  v  

2

It

   
 

  

« y , gspéaker:   weido see
‘ , ;’ spe s that will do more "than give .a one hour

 

. Sincerely,
Charlotte Graham ’99

Contact chairman concerned *

When she called to interview me for your “W&L

Mayurnik told me that the Phi was looking for news’

*C0l1taCt’,Wantedft0 bring Jerry Springer to W&L _
I We felt that he would {create a fun event, especially if
he agreed to do a mock show on campus. Unfortu— .; .
, nately, after talking to agent, it became_c1earj to  
. that  chances of getting Springer were extremely  i
at slim. It-Iisagerit toldfps that«Roanoi<e, an, I 1
» I iinportantTV maiicetto Springerand that~.Springer 1,  
. _' , therefore expressed no real interest iii! speaking here. ., »

      

  

  
 
 
 
 

Admissions Counselor

The W & L Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for a possible
admissions counselor position. All
interested graduating seniors should
submit a cover letter and resume no
later than‘Wednesday,

March 25, 1998 to
Julia M. Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions
Office of Admissions

ATTENTION COLLEGE SENIORS: WHAT DO
I DO NEXT?

Be a live—in nanny for UVA professors’ family for
one year, starting August 1. Regular weekday
schedule, generous salary, paid vacations and
holidays, health insurance, free room and board,
own spacious living quarters (with bathroom and
seperate entrance), all utilities, summer pool
membership, privacy, respect. Non—smokers, good
drivers, college graduates or students only.

Call 804-924-7815 or e-mail aw2b@virginia.edu.

 

 
 

COROLLA

  
 
 

._ THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT WE CAN
‘ REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP US ACCOMPLISH ALLTHAT
 WE NEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE

 ' THE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER TIIE PAST 30 YEARS,
COROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
 CARS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT ‘S ALL-xNEW...WITH
>§" MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
 ALUMINUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
IT'S MORE ECONOMlCAL...UP TO 38 MILES PER

 
 

QUIETER, AND BEST OF ALL, IT STARTS
AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST
‘X YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS
' ' I MONEY. WHAT A '
R E F R E S H I N G 3

 

CHANGE!

TOYOTA 

 
 

GALLON HIGHWAY. COROLLA IS SAFER AND 

c’/\./C/Vi/IOIEI/I

 
 
  
 
    
            
  
    
  

,1»

  

..,~

 

MARCH 16, 1998

llappq ﬁt.

  

FD affects
local prom

CD Since the Fancy Dress committee
won’t be passing on as many decora-
tions as in previous years, Rockbridge
County High School is making some
changes to its usual prom plans.

BY ERICA PRCBSER

STAFF Warm:

The Rockbridge County High School prom is getting
its first facelift, thanks in part to Washington and Lee.

For the ﬁrst time ever, the prom is moving out of the
gym and into the Natural Bridge Hotel. That’s not exactly
a break in tradition (the school is only ﬁve years old), but
it is certainly a change, and it all came about because of the
W&L Fancy Dress Ball, said prom sponsor and art teacher
Cindy Kleinchester.

“This is the first year we won’t be able to get anything
[for decoration] from W&L,” she said. Traditionally, local
high schools have come to W&L the morning after FD and
taken decorations for use in their proms, but this year,
things have changed. Matt Kirby-Smith, the W&L stu-
dent in charge of construction for FD, says that Kleinchester
is not entirely correct.

“I think there are going to be small things that the high
schools can have,” he said. But
the majority of decorations will
not be given away this year. The
FD committee is not heartless;
rather, it is frugal. Some decora-
tions are rented, and other FD
construction tends to be well
done and expensive. For the first
time, the committee will try to re-
cover some of the expense.

I “If we just stored the con-
FEW FD struction from one FD to the next,
DECORATIONS the school could save about
will be used by RCHS $15,000,” said Kirby-Smith. Stor-
tlzisyear. Ho/us’/7~.'/I age is not an option this year, but
H()W-J)/PH()7I) E1)/'/on since many of the decorations are
well-constructed theater sets,
they will be sold for a discount to local theater groups.
K irby-Smith said that, for example, the fountain constructed
for the small gym will be sold to Shenanarts, a local theater
<'~<lllj?£lIl}’, when the dance is over.

As financially sound as these ideas are for W&L, RCHS
has been left without a source of prom decorations.
Kleinchester said that was not a problem. Traditionally, even
with the free decorations, the high school has shelled out
$5,000 for its prom. This year, for the same price, the school
was able to book the Natural Bridge Hotel ballroom and pro-
vide food and drinks for promgoers. The school has even
sinpper_l relying on FD themes as themes for the prom.

'‘we’ve always gone with the FD theme in the past,”
szticl Kleinchester. This year, without decorations to back
up a ’20s theme, the prom committee came up with a new,
simpler theme. Kleinchester could not divulge this year’s
theme, since it is kept as a surprise until the night of the
prom, but she did say that the hotel would “run the show”
with its already evident beauty and elegance.

The prom change has led to other improvements, too.
A provincial fireplace in the hotel will serve as the back-
drop for prom pictures, making a welcome change from
the usual backdrop provided by the photography studio.
The traditional deejay will be spinning the CD5, and the
prom committee will decorate the hotel entrance and each
prom table. Kleinchester said that the students have just
begun to get excited about the event;junior Meredith Cox
said that prom has been the topic of conversation in the
school halls lately.

“Everyone is talking about dresses, dates, and other
prom stuff,” she said. She doesn’t yet have a date, but she
has a couple of months to get one.

The prom, scheduled for May 9, will host about 400
students for four hours. Thejunior class must pay for the
prom, but thanks to fund raisers held by the class since
September, the school can again keep the prom ticket prices
low. Tickets are $10 per person, which makes it easy for
even the lower income students to attend.

Money does not seem to be as big an issue as some
might expect, Kleinchester said. Even students from low-
income families go all-out, renting limos and buying ex-
pensive dresses. The result was a success for the handful

ofgirls who participated; they need only purchase acces-
sories and shoes to match the gowns.

Cox isn’t sure whether the prom will be better than previ-
ous years, but Kleinchesterthinks that the whole experience
will turn out well. ‘‘I’m looking forward to it,” she said.

 

 

i-teat’

&life

 

ﬂatritlfa Bag!

PAGE 3’

ENTRY FORMS are available wherever Guinness products are sold. Ho/././s’/me HoV1;r/PHo1'0 EDIIUR

In honor of St. Patrick’s Day

rink &

Think

Brewery sponsors essay contest

BY TARAH GRANT

FI=AIURI§ EDITOR

Ifexperience helps on job applica-
tions, Washington and Lee students
will have an advantage in at least one
career opportunity.

Guinness Import Company has an-
nounced its ﬁfth annual “Win Your
Own Pub In Ireland” contest. Thejob
application consists of an essay con-
test: Explain, in 50 words or less, why
Guinness is your “perfect pint.” The
contest deadline is March 31.

Competition is stiff. Last year
45,000 people entered, and Guinness
selects only 10 finalists.

Finalists win a trip for two to Ire-
land to participate in the Grand Prize
contest, which includes an evalua-
tion ofeach ﬁnalist’s Guinness pint-
pouring skills, a dart-throwing com-
petition and an another essay deliv-
ered orally. The top-scoring finalist
wins the grand prize: Finucane’s Pub
in Listowel, County Kerry, lreland.

Finucane’s is a fully functional
classic Irish pub with a wood bar,
booth seating, a pool table, a liquor
store and a loyal following of local
customers. Above the pub, there’s
a two-story apartment with four bed-
rooms, a large kitchen, living room
with ﬁreplace, dining room, bathroom
and roof terrace.

The grand prize winner will live in
the apartment and operate the pub.
The approximate market value ofthe
prize is $330,000.

Students over the age of2l are eli-
gible to enter the contest. On the
Guinness ofﬁcial contest website, the
company offers entrants some advice:
“When artists need inspiration to cre-
ate great works of art they often
choose a subject that appeals to them
most. So, when it comes to writing a
great essay on Guinness, what better
way to get inspired than by experienc-
ing a Perfect Pint firsthand?”

Lexington’s pub, The Staircase,

has three Irish beers on tap, including
Guinness. Should a W&L student win
the contest, Sam McArthur, owner of
The Staircase, said, “I would be happy
to give them all the advice they need.”

Guinness has many loyal fans at
W&L. ‘‘I like beer like I like my men—
tall, dark and bitter,” junior Trevor Reed
explains. With Guinness-drinking
students and professors, Lexington
could generate a fair amount of con-
test entries.

_ To enter, complete_ the form located
on ih'e"Gu'ihiie's's”'Web’ Sité,"ht'tp'i//
www.'gui'nn‘ess. You can enter as often
as you wish, but each entry must be
different and transmitted separately.

The web site also has examples of
previous years’ winning essays to
read for inspiration and a virtual
QuickTime tour of the object of de-
sire, Finucane’s Pub.

For people who aren’t Internet
savvy, you can print your entry on an
ofﬁcial entry form (available at Harris
Teeter) along with your name, address,
telephone number, conﬁrmation that
you are at least 21 years of age, and
mail it to: Guinness Contest, P.O. Box
3169, Grand Rapids, MN 55745-3169.

Entries will bejudged equally on the
basis of originality, relevance, appeal,
clarity and appropriateness for use in
publicity and advertising. Finalists will
be notified on or about April 24,1998,
just after we return from spring break.
The grand prize competition will take
place in Ireland May 8-14.

Previous winners include a female
Oregon Department ofFish and Wild-
life worker, a retired sales manager
from Florida and a Minneapolis mu-
sic technician (who sang an ode to a
pint of Guinness during the Grand
Prize competition).

So far, no college students have won
the contest, but with a little luck and a
few well-chosen words, a Washington
and Lee student could be the next
owner of an Irish pub.

“As the cool, creamy
head of a pint of
Guinness settles, adver-
saries become partners,
problems become solu-
tions and acquaintances

become good friends.-”
—Finalist Robert ‘coe 'ofCo'rinécfi%ut ‘
wrote in his essay last year.

¢cw.mmw...,..,,. ,,,,,,,r, ,,,,,,,W,

» ?’1mi>°*¢ Ccmr.-We its afﬁmmvi
;-.-.'conipanie‘s and agencies,and

 

‘ :,Z01K‘-. 3 (C0,. UT; NM; NV, WY,"

   
   

; Pptenniii ti/nalistsivill be notiﬁed

 

; OFFICIAL RULES: I ,_

~ I.a ELIGIBILITY: No purchase
necessary to enter or claim prize. .
Contestopen to US. . residents 21.

” andfolder. Employees of Guinness .

I members o_f5the immediate fami-

._ lies oi‘ households of such employ-_

‘ ‘c’es‘,ar‘e/notieligible. Void where
prohibited. ‘

2; JUDGING: Entries will be
judged equallyvdn the basis oforigi-
nality, relevance to; Guinness prod-

‘ uct, appeal, clarity’/and,appropri-
ateness for useiti publicity and
advertising. Judging will be con-

» ducted jointly bye panel of iride-
pendentjudges and Guinness Im- ‘
port Coinpanyjemployees, under

_ the supervisionof Clarion Mar-
keting and, Communications. Ten-
tinalists will be chosen, one —ﬁ'om
each of terrcontest zones: Zone 1 "
(ME, VT,‘NH, MA, RI), Zone 2

. (CT, NY, NJ), Zone 3 (DE, VA,
MD,'DC, NC), Zone 4 (PA, WV,

Z OH), Zone 5 (SC, GA, MS, LA,

‘~"',rN, FL; AL, AR),'Zone 6 (IN,

VQKX, MI, IL, VYI), Zone 7 (MN,

 ND, SD, NE,vIA, KS, M0, OK), ~

A2), Zone ‘9 (wA,~oR, ID, MT, Y

AKJII),/Zone I0,(CA),.provided. ;

g uﬂicient number’ ofqualiﬁed en- ‘

. Ines received. In the event of 
V» a‘tie,‘fmalists’;will be determined
- byithe higtiéstf ‘originality score-

 why/»rnail on 9:. about April 24,.

, I 1998; ’Eaeh,fcjualiﬁed finalist will

°\iv,iu;a trip fortwo to Ireland to
‘participate in the Grand Prize con-

’ ,”}test, which will includegan evalua-

,Tti,ori of each‘ fiiialist’s" Guinness

; “pint-pouring skills; a,dar”'tsiconi-

f 9 peﬁtion and an another*‘es§ay?.de~

fglivered orallyl  top-scoring fi- i°=
nalist will win the giraridfrize. V 

;  PR'IZES:u(l.)V‘G'rattcl.Pri2e_- 

: authentic Irish pub“,ljooated.;in 

 Listowel, lrelari;l,-fwitli;§,approxi-: 7?,

jate market,value,.of,,$3§ 000.

    
 
   
  
    

 
     
 

V ‘expenses relatjedto ti  ‘tic’ .
 Waiting anrissiﬁtsd !l°.°nS¢S». -
" ‘ ging l‘or"appropriaté.insurance
verage upon taltingstitlertothe -
. rdpercy and qperatiris, i>u'b:<:o) _
iFin'alist Prizes} .- :iA}.!rip I,for.tw6 ‘tor
and.» Prize consists ‘of round.‘
grip coach air travel from tlie,Aer ,
*I';iiigusv gateway‘ city ‘closieste to
'7 /””w‘inner’s residence,’ doublettroom
 accommodations for siit ,dayslﬁve\
 nights.-.andl  
”;mncIt,»saern;Itisi, " ” I .

  

 

    
  
   

iisiltilittf Oﬁtiﬁ‘ .
ar{ticipafing,_eritrants

_ les /'and.decisio1'is
 as titiar’ir‘r an are-I
"sp‘t:Tcts,_.~All ,e tries ‘become the 
»P’l'."?l>l=‘rty»4¢v,'lf.,s'poi_is;0r, ‘,and"entrant ' —
., grants tosponsoriill rights bf own-

‘;  Sponsor  notfresponsible
 for late, ‘lost,‘incornplete, stolen,

 

 
   
   
 

‘ ,  .. .3s_2,,. ..
abilvitjilpublicityreleasewhichmust ,

‘V returned‘  fseveri days ,0:
ternate winner may be se-
ri,"_'i‘ijriirel companions must
$139 9<!f*'Vi2l¢t¢.‘S*Iliﬁ*fli'Y’l"l"‘l°*‘Y
=‘reI,ease:1fl3,a:.=’h} winner‘ and (travel
_ comvénicn agrEe..«=s"vt.<z the. use of

f tslher name and/or photograph
gjfoi advertising‘ and publicity pur-
Tj: poses withoiit additional ,com'pen-
 '§iiion;;Nq.pnz¢ transfer or sub- <
.« ‘giirrrtiajns/exceptﬁasiiletcnnined‘ by
  to unavailability.“
‘ *5;-« WINNERSLIST: For a list of
 w{nners,1send;a self-addressed,
  envelope, to be received

Mafchj‘q3»1,‘-1998, to: Guinness
ontest Winners,» PO. Box 704,
‘ Siiyreville-,;.NJ 0.8871-704. Re-
’ ests will be‘fu:l/:t'ill‘ed after June
$51998,-Additionally, the list of
rnpers will be posted on the
 jiinness Web‘ site at http://
“ ‘ww-w.guinness,ie through June 30,
7_7I‘9,98.- I"

 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  

Local boy gone big time returns to his old stomping ground

   

(13 Dave Matthews’ 1998 tour starts in
Roanoke. Tickets go on sale Saturday.

BY STEPHEN PESG5

 

STAFF \WRITER

pring tenn classes commence on

Monday, April 20. Saturday the

18th, Dave Matthews Band
opens its 1998 Tour at Roanoke’s Vic-
tory Stadium. Opening in the band’s
home state, the U.S./Canadian tour
will last through July 7. The Roanoke
performance should potentially re-
ceive wide national attention be-
cause it is the first ofthe tour.

The band’s fourth album, “Before
These Crowded Streets” will be re-
leased on April 28, ten days after
the concert. The ten-number song
list contains: “Rapunzel,” “The Last

Stop,” “Don’t Drink the Water,”
“Stay,” “Halloween,” “The Stone,”
“Crush,” “The Dreaming Tree,”
“Pig” and “Spoon.” ‘

The first day ofspring marks the
first day that tickets will go on sale
for the concert. Doors open at 10
a.m. this Saturday, March 21, at the
Roanoke Civic Center box office and
Ticketmaster offices.

Dave has not played in the area
since October 1994, when he ap-
peared at the
Rockbridge 

ous fraternity house basements.
W&L students feel a close tie to
Dave Matthews from his perfor-
mances way back when and affec-
tion for the band within the commu-
nity remains. The local boy gone big
time will certainly draw an enormous
crowd, and students hoping to get
tickets may have to resort to the
freshman tactic of camping out for
what they want (though the results
ofthis campout would certainly be

Horse Center.
Many stu-
dents remem-
ber or have
heard stories
of when the
band per-

Students will have a greaz‘ opportunity
to witness first-hand a band that many
enjoy so much wiflzozu‘ lingering
worries ofclasses and tests.

formed in vari-

77

more memorable than a scarcely at-
tended biology class).

Freshman lean Rowan expressed
disappointment that the band will be
playing while students are still on
break. “Many friends who won’t be
able to make it in will miss a chance
to share an awesome experience,”
she said. “You’d think they would
have acted more considerately to-
wards a community that has singly in-
vested in millions ofdollars
worth of Dave Matthews

BandCDs.”
Yet, quite
possibly, the
timing of the
concert may
be ideal. Stu-
dents will

have a great
opportunity to

witness ﬁrst-hand a band that many
enjoy so much without lingering
worries of classes and tests. Po-
tentially, the Dave Matthews con-
cert on April I8 may prove a fabu-
lous beginning to a fantastic
Spring Term.

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

PAGE 4

RESULTS

Men’s Lacrosse (4-1)
Sat.: Gettysburg 7
W&L 8
Won1en’s Lacrosse
(5-0)

Thu: Hollins 5
W&L 21

Sat.: Bridgewater 6
W&L 15
Sun.: F&M 8
W&L 11
Baseball (3-5)
Thu: Bridgewater 5
W&L 2
Fri.: Lynchburg 1
W&L 2
Sat.: VA Wesleyan 1
W&L 4
VAWes1eyan 5
W&L 3
Men’sTennis(5-1)
Tue.: Roanoke 0
W&L 7
E. Mennonite 0
W&L 7
Sat.: Hamp.-Syd. 1
W&L 6
Women’sTennis(7-3)
Thu: Rand.- Macon O
W&L 9
Fri.: Kenyon 7
W&L 1
Sat.: Colgate .3
W&L 6
Sim.: VAWes1eyan 0
W&L 9
Sun.: E. Mennonite O
W&L 9
Monday
Golf —

at Ferrum Invitational
Men's Tennis ——
Ripon, 3 :00 pm,
Upper Courts

Tuesday

Baseball —

Savannah A&D, 3:00 pm,
Smith Field

Golf—

at F errum Invitational

Wednesday

Women’s Lax —
Lynchburg

4:00 p.m., Liberty Hall Fields

X Thursday

Baseball —

i at E. Mennonite, 3:00pm

Smith Field

Women’s Tennis —
at Lynchburg, 3 :30 p.m.
Women’s Tennis —
at Roanoke 3:30 p.m.
Men’s Tennis —

at VMI, 3:00 p.m.

Satu rday

Women’s Lacrosse —

at Rand-Macon, 1:00 p.m.
Women’s Tennis -—

Mary Washington
12:00p.m., Lower Courts
Men’s Tennis —
Wooster, 1:00 p.m.

M&W Track —

Roanoke Invitational, all day

Sunday

Baseball —

at Mary Washington
1:00 p.m., Smith Field
Men’s Lacrosse —
at Franklin & Marshall
1:00 p.m.

sports

MARCH 16, 1998

Men’s lax upsets Gettysburg in 2nd OT

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—-—j—-T SPORTS \X/Rriiaz

For anyone with a history of heart
problems and high blood pressure,
it was probably best to avoid Wil-
son Field yesterday afternoon dur-
ing Washington and Lee’s show-
down with national rival Gettysburg.

W&L freshman attackman Tom
Burke scored the game winning goal
with 2:00 left in the second sudden-
death overtime to give 12th ranked
W&L an 8-7 victory over fifth
ranked Gettysburg in front of an
elated home crowd.

W&L had a number of
oppurtunites to end the game in
both overtimes as the Generals
outshot the Bullets 8-0 in the extra
frames. With just over 2:00 left in
the second OT, senior captain Paul
Stanley blew by a defender, faked a
shot, and made a spectacualar pass
to Burke, who ripped a shot into the

back of the net to give the Generals

the dramatic victory.

“I just tried to attack the goal and
I saw two guys open in the crease,”
said Stanley, descirbing the last play
of the game. “Burke made a great
move to get open, I got him the ball,
and he put it in.”

The Generals got off to a quick "

start and led the Bullets 5-2 midway
through the second quarter before
Gettysburg scored four unanswered
goals to take a 6-5 lead with 4:06 left
in the ﬁrst half. Matt Dugan then
scored his third goal of the half to
tie the game 6-6 before Ross
Garetson gave the Bullets a 7-6 lead
with 3:08 left in the half in what
would turn out to be Gettysburg’s
last goal of the game.

Gettysburg went scoreless during
the second half and both overtimes
as W&L scored the only goal ofthe
second half on a short handed goal
by senior Ed Dougherty with 1:23
left in the third quarter. Senior goalie

YOU TAKE IT. Senior captain longstick midﬁelder Robb Greenfield slides between two Gettysburg players and passes it
to junior midﬁelder T om Super. The General ’s defense was onﬁre in their double overtime win over the #5 Gettysburg Bullets.

HOLLISTER Ho VEY / PHOTO EDITOR

Scott Jackson was the unsung hero
for the Generals, as he came up huge
in his first start of the season, a ca-
reer high 17 saves and shutting out
the Bullets during the ﬁnal 38 min-
utes of the game.

“I had a strong game because of
our defense and because of our
coaches,” said Jackson. “The defense
really played well and our coaches did
a great job getting us prepared.”

“Scott had a really strong game
and our defense really stepped it

Undefeated women’s lax
crushes Bridgewater, F&M

BY JASON ZACHER
——j—-— EXHIUTIVE EDrroR

Cold temperatures and strong
winds could not cool off the
women’s lacrosse team last week-
end as the Generals picked up three
wins in four days.

Washington and Lee moves to 5-0
(3-0 ODAC) on the season, outscoring
their opponents 78-32. It is the sec-
ond time in the last three years that
W&L has opened their season 5-0

Led by sophomore goalkeeper
Ginny Jemigan, the Generals’ defense
stoned Franklin & Marshall 11-8 and
Bridgewater 15-6 over the weekend.
Jemigan made 40 saves on 53 shots
in the two games.

On Sunday, W&L dumped Franklin
& Marshall behind the strong offen-
sive play of senior captain Whitney

Parker. Parker scored ﬁve goals, in-
cluding one in the ﬁrst minute of the
game. Mid-way through the ﬁrst half,
F&M held a 5-3 lead, but behind three
goals from Parker, the Generals went
on an 8-1 run to take the lead for good.

Even though the Generals were held
scoreless in the final 20 minutes,
Jemigan made 23 saves to preserve the
victory for W&L.

“Even though she has only played
for two -years, she looks like she has
been a player forever,” said senior cap-
tain Lorraine Taurassi. “We feel very
conﬁdent with her behind us.”

Taurassi added three goals for the
Generals. Freshman Liz Borges, sopho-
more Katherine Riddle and junior
Lauren Francis also scored.

“We played one of the best games

CD SeeIAXpage2

@Jock Shorts

- Track claims 4th at W&L Invitational - Women’s
tennis wins ﬁve of six matches-

Track

Wilson Field was the site of the an-
nual Washington and Lee Track and
Field Invitational on Saturday aﬁemoon
and both of W&L’s track teams took
fourth place in what was the opening
meet in the outdoor track season. Se-
nior Greg Ruthig led the way for the men
as he won the 1,500 and finished sec-
ond in the 800.

For the women, junior Lisa Brennan
also won the 1,500 and took second in
the 800. In the women’s 800, W&L took
three of the top four places as junior
Natalia Dorofeeva finished first, Brennan
took second, and freshman Kathleen
Moroney took fourth.

The W&L women also captured first
place in the 4x400 relay. Frostburg State
won the overall title for both the men
and the women.

Women’s Tennis

The W&L women’s tennis team had
a tough week, playing six matches in
five days. They came away with ﬁve
wins, only losing to NCAA nemesis

Kenyon College. The Generals
blanked their four ODAC opponents,
Va. Wesleyan, Sweet Briar, Randolph-
Macon and Eastern Mennonite, win-
ning all nine matches.

The Generals have won seven of
their last eight matches, bringing their
record to 7-3 (6-0 ODAC). W&L has
not lost a single individual match to
and ODAC opponent.

No. 1 ﬂight player, senior Ericka
Shapard, only lost two games in her
three ODAC matches. No. 2 player, se-
nior Berry Blankinship, swept her two
ODAC matches. Kenyon, who beat the
Generals in the semi-fmals of last year’s
NCAA tournament, dropped the Gen-
erals 8-1 on Friday the 13th. Only fresh-
man Anne Castello won for W&L. The
doubles team of sophomore Erin Eggers
and sophomore Brook Hartzell almost
pulled out a victory, losing 9-7.

This week, the Generals play split-
squad matches Thursday against
Lynchburg College and Roanoke Col-
lege. Saturday, Mary Washington
comes to town to take on the Generals
on the Lower Courts at high noon.

up,” added Stanley. “The coaching
staff really prepared us all week; we
knew what was coming and we got
it done.”

The Generals, who came into the
game ranked 12th in the nation in
Division III lacrosse, improved their
record to 4-1 on the season.

The victory is extremely impor-
tant for the Generals NCAA tourna-
ment hopes, especially after they
lost to 10th ranked Cortland State
last week.

“They were ranked ﬁfth in the na-
tion so it’s obviously a huge win
for us,” said Stanley.

“This puts us one step closer to
our goal: making the NCAA touma-
merit,” addeed Jackson. “But we
still have a long way to go.”

The victory marked the third
consecutive year that the Generals
have defeated Gettysburg College,
a team which made it all the way to
the NCAA Division III semi-finals
last season. It was only the second

game of the season for the Bullets,
who fall to 1-1 with the loss. The
Bullets have played ﬁve overtime
periods in their first two games; it
took them three overtimes to defeat
Roanoke 10-9 in their first game of
the season.

Next, the Generals hit the road
and travel to Lancaster, Pennsylva-
nia to take on Franklin & Marshall
next Sunday. They return home on
March 25 to host Connecticut Col-
lege on Wilson Field.

WASHINTQN AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Annual Fund Staff Associate

The Office of University Development has an
opening for an Annual Fund Staff Associate. This
position assists in the development and management
of strategies to increase involvement in the ﬁnancial
support of Washington and Lee through the Annual
Fund which provides direct support to the ‘
University’s operating budget. The term of the
position is one year, renewable for a second year,
with preference given to recent W&L graduates

As this entry-level position depends on creative
communication to a varied constituency, the
successful candidate should posses excellent writing
and verbal skills. Also necessary are demonstrated
initiative, an ability to work within specific
deadlines, ability to prioritize and juggle multiple
tasks, an ability to supervise and manage student
workers and alumni volunteers, and a willingness to
assist other staff members as needed. Candidates
should also be prepared for evening and weekend
work and some travel. Familiarity with computers
and with public relations principles is a plus. A
bachelor’s degree is required.

Candidates should send a complete resume and letter
of application to Robert W. Fox, Director of
Personnel Services, Washington and Lee Univ_ersity,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Equal Opportunity Employer

,,,,_,,.,,¢u-n-..-i.-.«....~-.-»,.»«.~ , -. 

7

 

   
   

Will tear night get ripped off?

A potentially troublesome message was sent out to member on this campus,’ is that these proposals send the
fraternity members at the Inter-Fraternity Council message that the fraternities lack the ability to take care of
meeting held last Monday. At that meeting, proposals their affairs responsibly. The proposal to ban hard alcohol
for a number of rule changes were made. Two are of on tear nights suggests that fraternities are unable, as the
particular interest, number of visits made. to the hospital by freshmen over the

The first would ban all hard alcohol on Tear Night. last few Tear Nights indicate, to ensure that its members
The second proposed change deals with destruction of and pledges drink even semi-responsibly. The proposal
university-owned property in fraternity houses. mandating an IFC review of punishments for acts of Se-

 mj“ struction in fraternity houses suggests that this damage as
" " T ' t  €’FI‘0II1 3 Bar  gotten out of control and that the punishments handed out

0 p  n    V 5- 7 by fraternities have been ineffective or nonexistent.

, c Swensen 98 . ,
.  _?___._ Are these suggestions true? I don’t know. I don t have
 n   p   n a  Whenever University property in a fraternity house an intimate knowledge of the workings of every fraternity
Q is broken, that fratemity’s judicial board willbe required on campus. But I believe someone — whether it be thlei
A letter which appeared in last Week’s issue to invisiigate the incident E;I:df[i)I'C:1:ntdIlS findings to the lioard 0§1T1I'(Li1Stt:]eS,etlir:] pf:1:si;lit(yr;stlti(e k2,l:It:11IlIélSmIe(:;Il,e:):h:y

~ - - - ' IFC. I t e erson res onsi e or e amage isa mem- ree — o 5 es 1 .

O; The Trldefnttatgaclfedffhelr  Efupnntlng ber of thatliouse, theii thejudicial board must also iin- are true or not doesn’t really matter. As longas these im-
t e names 0 S u en S C arge W1 g pose a punishment on that person and report it to the pressions are held by people with the power either to force

I
lp-o

 

-.«.-. .. .«....-. -...-..-..«.....-;....-,.—.(-.-J

  

 

iconcerned,al;fgut it. ‘ 

 

9

  
 

‘editoriat. As“  »

  

   

 Possession in the dorms“ This raises interest" IFC, which may refer the student to the Student Judicial changes or to pressure us to make changes, our autonomy . V 70319  ;
ing issues, namely the The Ring-tum Phi’s council for further action. will be slowly chippedawayi . .  7-
policy of not regularly publishing the names of If a fraternity will notreveal who is responisiblefor a A lot has c1liangeg‘s{ip)c1: I amyted (fm ca:inlr)lLl1sshf\ov1:1rS)t'1<:ra:: 17‘ amen em?» 0 
Students who are Charged with driving under piiltnciilf1::):ﬂ1Ofr(:l:i-ii):liiiitil]:h:[ft1li:r:r:ii?:nil<i)eii’:ifyii: jfgekéslgrigﬁsaiidagledgeshil:vi:;e<fIalr(iif):t two semesters.

)' the mﬂuenee _ revealed to tllepllrg That has changed, and these two current proposals may

This mformation is 3- matter of Pubhc My point is not to debate the merits of these propos- lead to even more changes.

‘ record, and though we often come EICFOSS DUI als. From what I’ve heard, these and the otherproposals Maybe times have changed. Maybe — especially in re-

tme in ‘he W b°°‘< at the    ‘F3 ‘tr S°‘“:.:::‘:‘::i::'::: %.:“l;‘.1:‘§3E;.:I?.E?.:Z:if;;y i‘§u§“£Z‘§I.§$Z‘;i§i¥Z‘2?.;Z
Police station’ we do not puiﬂlsh them. frilyhdeiiirgziesitiieieeanfi glfetpcéii/sli1<:‘t3s‘2/1(t)the IFC. I don’t to cio with a growing lack of faith in the fraternities’ ability

Smce only two Students Smce January _haVe believe that they made these proposals entirely of their to take care of their own business. We had better change
TeeeiVed DUI5» this Seems not to be a Senous own free will. this impression quickly. Who knows what they might look
3 problem at Washington and Lee. However, What bothers me, and should bother every fraternity to change next.

one intoxicated person who gets behind the
wheel can mean death for the driver or an - .
innocent bystander. Drunk drivers kill hun-  Mgnofes gi Shame

y llreds of people each year. This is a tradegy, a .
Afradegy that can easliy be avoided with one
easy step-don’t get behind the wheel.

‘ With the institution of BYOB this year and
two upcoming dry houses in the year 2000,
many suggest that incidents of drunk driving
will possibly increase due to more drinking in
the country and less drinking in fraternity

N houses.
A debate ensued in the Phi office about what
we, as a student paper, could, or should, do as
a deterrent for drunk driving. One person
I suggested that we print, as a matter of policy,
the names of students who receive DUIs.
Perhaps the feeling of shame in front of
classmates would serve as a deterrent to driv-
ll ing under the inﬂuence. We realize that this is
a policy change that will cause a ruckus on this
campus. As a student newspaper, we always
try to benefit the students as a whole and to
minimize any harm that may be caused as
result of our policies, editortial or articles.
Therefore, the Phi is very interested in
knowing what the student population thinks of
this idea, and would appreciate any feedback,
in the form of a signed letter to the editor, that
anyone would like to share.

.4. 44-. ‘J ‘A'A'.h‘.A'.A’A‘4‘L'A‘p‘A'a‘A'A'L'L.'A 1- am - 5': -. -a 'b‘A.‘A..‘_A.‘ACL -n~a.‘;.n:

...
' I
... ..-..-.......i...........r..-a...—.».;-..v.- ~.-.~.-.-.-.s.-.~.—i-1-.-. ..-.:. I‘A'ﬂ1AA‘.l‘l‘A‘l\'A ,.~. . - . .~.-.-.. » ..-..-s~

    



" C C   
 uote of the Week: 

" I_h°pe Pm turning it out when 17" What else can we blame on 81. Nlﬁo? 
sixty-two. "

'.'~'

. Voterparticipation can’t be counted on

—— Anonymous senior on sex

9 ’ I saw the voting booth in front of the Co-op during a stranger who, for all I know, could turn out to be the _ One problem with this proposal is that it gives stu+ 
the last student election, and a member of the Voting General Robert E. Lee of EC presidents. So I didn’t vote. dents who can write well an unfair advantage over less I
1‘ ~ Regulations Board waiting expectantly for people to fill Prior to the election, I could have learned more about talented writers, regardless of their political qualifications. E
E B   i out little slips of paper. I saw him watch me as I walked the candidates so that I would have been prepared to vote. But maybe that’s not such a drawback aﬂer all. Maybe ;
by. I didn’t vote. But I never have a lot of spare time, and when I carve up the President of the EC should be able to express herself 
Executive Edam Courtney Mm" [SE B  R what spare time I_do have, learning about the candidates in or himself well -— maybe that should be one of the quali- 
Jason Zach"   1 fl OW the next big election falls low on my list of priorities. fications for the lob. !
vi Managing Editor Kathryn Mayurnik ., l “ David B3181 99 I imagine that a lot of other students feel the same way. Through whatever means, it is important that students ,
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing e-"1 ~ —-——-——ﬂ— That may explain why nearly 1,000 of them did not vote. receive more information about candidates than what they l
N Ed? W," H d_ , Iknow that it’s important to vote. If Tabatha Soren To explore educating students about candidates, we receive now. With more information, we would have 5
ews I or I ar . . , . , . . . . , _
w&,Ife Editors Liz Dmer” has taught me anything, it s that I must vote as often as should ﬁrst consider students time restraints. This restnc- more incentive to vote. 
{ Tarall Gram V I can, even if I am bedridden in Pakistan. tion rules out a public meeting where candidates could ex- -
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg But I didn’t feel I knew the candidates well enough plain their qualiﬁcations to students. No one would go. . . .
Sports Edifvr John Stewart to vote for or against them. I have been in class with Instead, I suggest that both campus newspapers reserve 
Last  fvoillllylgfilée some of the candidates and I can attach faces with most their Opinion and Letters to the Editor pages for candidates ‘
phom Edna, Hamster Hovey of their names. Of the candidates I knew, however, I one week prior to an'electi.on. The candidates could write The Rm _tum Phi would like to a 010 ize
1; Online Editor Tom Wadlow did not know any well enough to decide whether they letters to the papers in which they would introduce them— g ,  g
4 g _ would be suited to the positions they wanted. selves and explain why they are running for office. This to the members Ofthe Women S 5W1m team
 g:::te':]°::]Etrz"'g Even worse, I didn’t know some of the candidates at way, students could learn about candidates, via the papers, for the errors in their letter to the editor last
all. Maybel don’thang around Lewis Hall often enough, at a time which would suit their needs ~— between class, week The mistakes were the P}, 1' ’S fault and
‘ ' h V . I but  have never met our new Executive Committee during a homework break or whenever fitted-their sched— in no way reflect the Original letter. We
The Rmg-tum Phi IS published Mondays during the President Beth Formidoni or our Vice President Wen ule best. Publishing information about the candidates would 1 . f h .
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Hutchinson.Iwould not feel comfortable voting against make that information portable and convenient. apo Oglze Ort ese m1stakeS'

 

University in Lexington, Virginia. Funding forthe Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and

I. subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee ‘E M (M
i Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and E"  fwd‘.
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise law,’ C_ 

independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
l’ Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
[um Phi‘ reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views" do not
i ' reflect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

7 Advertising does not reflect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

Lnblsol

 

i T pWhat do you like best ut L?§

   

'A'.'n.'p.‘: .-nu r. ;‘5‘A ._IK . 4,. _li_A_A._5_A

The Ring-rum Phi
«( 208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. Virginia 24450 . » ,_ , . ,
Telephone: (540) 462-4060 ll “ . l , . ,, l . .
Fax, (540) 4624059 The small classes, professors, and I like the classes and the professors ‘i love the friendly people. ‘ The people are so nice. especially
Email; p;,,>@,.v1u,e,1,, the honor code.” and I like the architecture." my host!”

1 -Elizabeth Manning, Ft. Worth, TX ~ Lindsay Maybin, lrino, SC ~ Katie Mitchell, Wichita. KA —- Alison Trinidad. Corona. CA

    

. .‘.'n‘.‘a‘a

 

     

4
u

«
a
J
4

 

 

PAGE 6

ahitoi Humor, ©pinion andlieviews

 

 

The pitch: “It’s
like ‘Hawaii Five-

5
0 h m eets A
I H
Passenger57.
By Alex Christensen love a really good episode of“C.Hi.P.S.” Always have.
Pf11'M0vie Critic But the ﬁlmmakers here simply cannot even leave that

One good thing about “The Fugitive,” even though
it was adapted from a TV series, is that it left that heri-
tage behind deﬁnitively. Like all good TV-show adap-
tations, from “The Flintstones” to the “Brady Bunch”
ﬁlms to the SNL successes, “The Blues Brothers” and

TV-show level of good enough alone.

Think about it. You know what you’re going to get
when you tune in to any cheesy TV drama. That’s pre-
cisely why they’re successful. _You’ve got two part-
ners. One is old; one is young. Or one is the ladies’

man, one is the straight-

“Wayne’s World,” “The

Fugitive” succeeded be- 
cause it took full advan-
tage of the longer and yet
more succinct story arc and
the cinematic visual style.
This lends itself very well
to increased symbolism

[The film] wouldn’t have anywhere
near approached ‘The Fugitive’ in
quality, but there was never any dan-
ger of that, really, now was there?

arrow with wife and kids.
Or one is the bad-ass and
one is the moral compass.
They have conflicts.
Their boss gets on their
backs halfway through,
and it really unites them.

and less close-up-focused
than television’s visual style, to tell an old, familiar story
with panache and a certain freshness.

A couple of years later, in walks “US. Marshals,”
with different writers, a different director, and no
Harrison Ford. From the opening moments ofthe ﬁlm,
you feel like you’re watching the opening of a really
good episode of “Starsky and Hutch” or “C.Hi.P.S.”
Despite it’s appearance, this really is not a criticism. I

There’s a shoot—out. One
gives his life for the other, or tries to. Book ‘em, Danno.
There’s nothing too hard about it, except,of course,
doing it well.

“The Fugitive,” of course, didn’t follow this formula
at all. That was a very large part of its considerable
success. It knew it was a movie and so it set up a
protagonist and an antagonist who were both good
guys, but whose priorities put them in conflict. There’s

for FREE!

|\/Iorion Kelly
March 20, 1998

Washington and Lee will be
bowled over by Marian Kelly,
March 20 in the GHQ at 8
p.m.! She is a Writer and
featured comedian for the
“Tonight show with Jay Leno.”
She has also performed on
MTV’s “Half-Hour Comedy
Hour” and Evening at the
Improv.” She has received rave
revies dueto her reality based
act which is without the usual
cliches. She promises to ,
overwhelm the audience with
laughter and you get to see her

—sponsored by Fridays.’

last Wor
“US.  l\/Iediome :
T.V.Copd1amaatitsmostmedioc1e

MARCH 16, 1998

nothing quite as
breathtakingly
simple or effec-
tive in the se-
quel.

“U.S. Mar-
shals” starts out
with some pass-
able action and
then we get Rob-
ert Downey, Jr.,
a counterintelli-
gence agent, as
Tommy Lee
Jones’ foil in the
hunt for fugitive
Wesley Snipes.
So the conflict is
young vs. old,
experience vs.
inexperience,
and federal gov-
ernment vs.
shadowy spy-type agency. These are all rich conflicts
rife with potential. Ifthere had been a straightforward
hunt with some interesting chases interspersed with
scenes where these conflicts could flare up individu-
ally, “US. Marshals” would have been far more satisfy-
ing. It still wouldn’t have anywhere near approached
the quality visible in“The Fugitive,” but there was never
any danger of that, really, now was there?

Nevertheless, they throw even this potential away.
The plot is convoluted completely unnecessarily. In-
teresting characters are only barely shaded in. There
are no really good conflicts between Jones and Downey.
The resolution of the chase is deeply unsatisfying.
There aren’t even any good catchphrases, an absolute
must in my book for any self-respecting action ﬁlm, be
it something standard like “Face/Off” or “Supercop,”
or something a little bit more ambitious like “The Fugi-
tive.”

“I didn’t kill my wife.” “I don’t care.” There’s noth-
ing nearly that stunning in “Us. Marshals.” Not even
close.

And Marshal Sam Gerard is practically a cipher. Now,
I’ve seen Tommy Lee Jones in bad movies. I’ve seen

  

him in movies I wouldn’t show my dog. But if you
watch him closely, you can still enjoy your time in the
theater. He’s never simply just wisecracking or scen-
ery-chomping. He’s always creating a character who is
powerfully real and alive.

But even Tommy Lee Jones isn’t more powerful than
a bad director in an editing room. Sure, he can take all
the bad scenes in the world and make them work, but if
the director doesn’t know enough to keep as much of
him in as possible, he might as well have hired Jamie
Farr. Director Stuart Baird, who was so good with “Ex-
ecutive Decision,” seems to have lost all his good in-
stincts here. Jones still manages to shine through in a
couple of powerful moments, but there’s nothing like
his Oscar-winning “Fugitive” role here for him to work
with.

In the end, it’s unfortunate. Robert Downey, Jr. is
working hard. Wesley Snipes is ready for action. Irene
Jacob, the ﬁne French actress from “Red” and “Othello,”
seems poised to do something interesting the whole
ﬁlm.

But, in the end, none of these potential strengths
pays off.

    

 

   Tennis vs. ,
~  qg.i;“:aVar:,.e,ity.;.g.§:<>‘;iirts.an 7:00 p.m.~ Lec-

t’i1rei:,.“Hitler,Florence, and the Manipula-
 oafgtl1e.'_ Renaissance,” -Roger, Cr/urn,

 

 

 '00  A afgieball vsglsavannah Arti’&“
.  Field. « ‘>1?’-5 J 7330 ’p.m. ,L_ectur_,e:
f?NATQ.%En!iérg§ enft a:,1fs1r European Src.¢gi—

   ’ Ambassador"
’Janusz.Reiter_ofPoland. Commerce School,

  8:;00‘p.pi.’rSenior Recital:.Mary

‘New ~‘98,’ cello. Lee Chapel.’ :1: WEDNES-

DAY 51‘? 4:00 p.m. Women’sLacrosse vs.
Lynchburg, Liberty Hall Field. a 7:30 p.m.

CONTACT “presents “The Biochemical

0 Challenge to,Evolution,f’ Michael Bane,’

,Carter. ScienceCenter Rm. 2014. #153

 sioredfshowing oifsskin Deep,” Science

“limeirceiy Schoolpkm. 221, book signing to fol-

diuﬁistnt.Aqditolr:.um.‘ as TUESDAYJ: ,
i If A  L ’ :.’‘.‘Mrs’.,’.Brown.’’ ‘»*I~“=”8:00
  presents comedian
Ingram 1{e11y,.a.t”;he GHQ. =>I¢ SATUR-
 l2’:00_p.m. Women’s Tennis vs.
rM,ary(W,ashif1gton, Varsity Courts. #14 1:00

Northen’Auditorin1n. y; 5‘: Lecture‘: “Silver
Rights: The Struggle for Justice in Missis-
sippi,” Constance Curry and Mac Bertha

  :00 p.m. , PRIDE 1 spon-

.Center"iRrn. A214. §I¢ 7:3n,p,m. Reading
 Dan Philippon and “Mike Branch, ‘au-
thors of “The Height of our Mountains:*I$Ia-
turepwriting {mm Virginia’s Blue Ridge
Mountains and Shenandoah. Valley,” Corn?

low. >’PI§\8:00 p.m. University Chorus con-
cert: “Music for the Four Seasons,” Lenfest
Center: Q   *1‘? 7:30 p.m,._Fi1rn

p.m.IMen’s Tennis) vs. Wooster.  7/:‘30—
p.m. Film Society presents “Mrs. Brown.”
3%? 8:00 p.m. Sonoklect 20th,,Century"Vo-
cal Fest, Lenfest Center. *3? Right’On at
Sigma Nu 1% Gran Torino at PiKa J

Work for @112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

The Phi is always looking for people to ﬁll po-
sitions with all aspects of the paper’s operaton.
If you would like to write, come to our story board
meetings on Wednesday nights at 6:30 p.m. at the
Phi ofﬁce, or e-mail us at: phz'@wlu.edu.

The Phi is also looking for help with advertising

and circulation. We offer commission on ad sales,
so you can make money! If you might be inter-
ested in advertising, contact Business Manager
Jill J amieson at:j]'amz'es0@wZu.edu. Circulation
interest should be directed to Matt Craig at:

mcraig@wZu. edu.

i

PHOTO COURTESY WARNER BROS. ‘( 1
It

5 .

 

 

