‘l

ﬂ

1

K

‘.1

‘I

‘D

3

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 7

   
 

Volleyball triumphs
over Eastem
ennonite in nail—biter
to take ODACS.
ﬂit"

Ulie ﬂing-tum iﬁlii

 

  

JAMES G. LEYBURN LlE?.l‘;;‘\R't

‘”"*°’”"”GTON & LEE UN’ ‘ s
LE.x[NmON' VA 24£\éSRSlTY

NOV 1.1199!
Desperate for that Cutie

in Politics 100?
Ms. Etiquette tells you
' What to do.
PAGE 8
Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID

Pennit No.7

Lexington. Va.
Monday

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

Thief strikes again,
students’ cash stolen

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
——*-j?*-* News EDITOR

The unusually high number of
thefts this year have left students
glancing over their shoulders, look-
ing for that suspicious-looking char-
acter lurking in the shadows who’s
waiting to steal their hard-earned

cash. Most likely, though, the cul-
prit is someone who looks just like
you.

“Whoever it is, he must look a
lot like a student,” said Washing-
ton and Lee Security Chief Michael
Young. “This person is not draw-
ing attention, because no one ever
sees anything suspicious at the time
of the crimes.”

An ‘incident Tuesday evening
points to the possibility that the cul-
prit may be a student or someone
who fits in very well against the
W&L backdrop.

Between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m., the
University Chorus and the Univer-
sity Chamber Singers were practic-
ing in duPont Hall, the chorus in
Room 102 and the chamber singers
in Room 104. About 90 people at-
tended and, as usual, they left their

backpacks, purses and coats outside
the room.

Senior Amanda Bradford, a
chamber singer, noticed that her
backpack was missing after prac-
tice. Chamber Singers Director
Gordon Spice found the backpack
in the men’s bathroom soon after-
ward. Bradford checked her wallet
and realized that the $37 was gone.
A few minutes of checking wallets
revealed thatjunior Shelley Adams
and senior Kate Bowdy had also
been robbed.

Adams had $60 in her wallet,
which was on a couch outside the
rooms and covered by her coat and
gloves.

“I had just cashed my paycheck,”
Adams said. “When I picked up my
wallet, it felt empty. And it was.”

Adams found the incident par-
ticularly distressing because the
thief probably knew that the groups
practiced at those speciﬁc times and
that the students usually left their
belongings unattended.

“It was kind of sad the next day
when all of our stuff was in the prac-
tice rooms and not out in the hall,”

Bowdy said. “We’ve been doing it
that way since freshmen year.”

Bowdy had $7 stolen from her
wallet. “I’m glad I don’t carry around
a lot of cash,” she said.

Although Young did not say that
the thief is a student, he reiterated that
it may be someone who looks a lot
like one. i

“If a student picked up a backpack
in the library, no one would think a
thing about it,” Young said.

Because of this fact, it is even
more important for students to keep
belongings with them.

“Whoever this person is, he’s
real, real slick,” Young said.

Young encourages everyone to
report any crimes or anything sus-
picious.

“People have been really good
about calling in,” he said.

Young said security is doing ev-
erything it can to catch the culprit
or culprits, but he refused to give
any speciﬁc details about the hunt.

“IfI told you how we were go-
ing about catching him, [the thief]
could very well read about it in the
newspaper,” Young said.

‘A time to celebrate everything we’ve gone through’:
J unior cadets whoop It
up at Ring Figure Ball

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

Tatterson said. “It makes you proud to realize that you’ve

News EDITOR

made it so far and you don’t have much time to go.”

Every Virginia Military Institute junior has something
so big that it is almost legally considered a weapon.

VMI second classmen received their class rings this
weekend in a Wednesday—through-Sunday extravaganza
called “Ring Figure.” The rings vary in size, but most ca-
dets get the 40 “pennyweight” ring. Anything above this
weight has to be registered as a weapon. _

The ﬁve—day celebration is unparalleled even by Wash-
ington and Lee’s Fancy Dress.

“People get trashed pretty much for ﬁve days,” VMI
junior Willis Tatterson said.

The main event of Ring Figure was a ball Friday night.
All the cadets’ dates were required to wear white dresses.
As the couples were announced, they passed through a
ten-foot replica of the class ring.

“We waited in line for two and a half hours,” Tatterson
said. “I told my date to wear tennis shoes, but she didn’t,
and ended up suffering.”

Cadets claim that Ring Figure is much more than a fancy
ball and is more important than graduation.

“It’s atime to celebrate everything we’ve gone through,”

Most cadets’ parents come for the weekend, while W&L
students would be mortiﬁed if their parents showed up for
FD, cadets think nothing of it.

“Parents have been there for you all through the rat
line supporting you,” Tatterson said.

“You have to be even more supportive than if your
son was going to a regular college,” said Tatterson’s mother
Nancy. “You have to be supportive enough to make him
stay.”

The actual rings the cadets receive stand for the “blood,
sweat and tears” they have endured for the past three years.
Each year, the ring is designed by the class members. One
side illustrates the Institute and the other side tells a story
about the class’s rat year. This year, the Institute side dis-
plays a cadet who fought in the Civil War battle of New
Market.

Cadets have the option of getting a “combat” ring in
addition to the gold one. In the event a VMI graduate is
engaged in combat, they can wear the combat ring, with-
out the fear of damaging the gold one. There were four
proposals Friday night, two before the ball and two as the

I ton and Lee. ,  ,  A

 ‘ ‘I am determined toemak

_ class the jbvesttitcaii be, ,,

 ’Birdwhistell.wonTth, ﬁes
president election ;,by. «
Monday. His

jclipart .s1gns,«,

 

jtures of’TBrad..'P‘i’ _ ‘ ,, V
. ‘McCarthy and sidewalk  ‘But?
‘ this Kentucky native '

ﬁt

a “Bird”: histell‘

couples passed through the ring.

Other cadets buy miniature versions of the ring for their
dates. This practice is seen as a “pre-engagement” and
can be compared to a fraternity member pinning his girl-
friend. Sophomore Amy Kane receive a miniature from
her date, Carl Trask.

“For some couples it is a pre-engagement, but it isn’t
that way with us,” Kane said. “He said that he gave it to
me because he loved me and yada, yada, yada,” she said.

A big privilege for the weekend was the opportunity to

stay outside of barracks, but within Rockbridge County.
Normally, when cadets go away for the weekend, they must
leave the county. Most stayed at the Ramada Inn. Friday
and Saturday nights, tent parties were held at the Red Oak
Inn. Friday night was a DJ party and Saturday featured
“Agents of Good Roots” and a late-night DJ.

However, the weekend was marred by one event. Friday
night, cadet Matt Baswhall was table dancing at the tent party
when his table collapsed. He fell on a broken beer bottle,
severing a portion of his ring finger.

. TGovernment=Association. , j"
 Baldwin is ﬁxated and MPPY
. about her new position and plans‘-to?
address the needsof theclass to the
 best-of her ability. ,

7.t01_1,.NJ."-‘Attefr 9
on lursningja caree as
“Is -6‘ ‘ j

_ “I-feel this is a great way to get *

involved and to serve the class,” she
said. “I’m thrilled to have the op-
) jpfoftunity to represent the class.”
V A “the W&L“ political scene led
Nick Cimino to run for Student Ju-
I jdicial-.Committee justice. . ‘
Q ' R Cimino had confidence in his
djabiiityj to win the office, but he ad-

Katie Baldwin

itedt it if

Counting up the
calories with the
cabbage plan kids

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
—"—-T-— News EDITOR

Crash diets abound at this time of
year, as students strive to lose a few
extra pounds before the holidays. But
do these crazy, quick-ﬁx solutions re-
ally work?

“Crash diets are usually not bal-
anced and doomed to fail,” said Dr.
Jane Horton, Director of Health Ser-
vices. “Your body is eventually go-
ing to crave food, and the weight will
be gained back again.”

Horton warns that crash diets, es-
pecially ones that are high in protein
and low in carbohydrates, can put
stress on the kidneys.

“I recommend a balanced diet that
is high in complex carbohydrates and
lower in protein,” she said.

Horton also emphasizes that exer-
cise is necessary for healthy living and
key to weight loss.

“Ifyou want weight loss, I recom-
mend exercising about an hour a day,

ﬁve days a week,” she said.

“You should change your eating
habits over a long period of time and
find something that you can stick to,”
Tad Stanley, a Health Services nurse,
said. “Some of these crash diets are
dangerous because they can cause
dehydration.”

The Health Center brochures on
healthy eating recomend following the
“food pyramid.”

The pyramid, from top to bottom,
is the following: bread, cereals, rice
and pasta (6-1 1 servings); vegetables
(3-5 servings); fruits (2-4 servings);
milk, yogurt,cheese (2-3 servings);
eggs, nuts, meat, poultry, ﬁsh, dry
beans (2-3 servings); fats, oils, sweets
(use sparingly.)

Sophomore Yulia Gorodetskaya
has gone on a few crash diets, includ-
ing the Slim Fast diet and the Suzanne
Somers diet.



 

PAGE 2

I1€WS

Frosh pull out
the big guns

BY DAN BIRDWI-IISTELL
STAFF WRITER

The war is on — a penny war
that is.

The Freshman Leadership Coun-
cil is hosting the first “Battle of the
Dorms” penny war in Washington
and Lee history from Nov. 10-Nov.
19th. Baker, Davis, Gilliam and each
side of Graham-Lees will be set
against one another to see which dorm
has what it takes to survive.

The rules are simple: for each
penny placed in one’s jug, a point is
given; for each nickel, dime, quarter
or bill placed in a jug, the respective
number of points are deducted. For
example, if Baker had 1000 pennies

and some Graham-Leeser busted out
a quarter and dropped it in the Baker
jug, 25 pointsvwould be deducted
from the Baker clan. Each dorm will
have ajug placed in the D-Hall and
the winners will be presented with
“Battle of the Dorms” banner at the
conclusion of the contest.

The FLC is also selling Krispy
Kreme donuts this week at $4 per
dozen, delivery included. FLC-ers
will be knocking on doors Sunday-
Tuesday to take orders; the donuts
will be delivered early Saturday
morning. All proceeds from both the
donut sales and the Penny War will
go directly to the budget of the Class
of 2001.

Letyourschool
pride fly high

BY WILL HARDIE
——*j-———-- CORY EDITOR

As the flyer reads, “Betsy Ross
did it in 1789, you can do it in
1997!”

Students with even a modicum of
artistic talent now have a chance to
make their mark on Washington and
Lee. President John Elrod has issued
a challenge to design a new set of
University ﬂags. The winning de-
signs will be processed at Univer-
sity ceremonies, and rewarded by
$100 credit at the bookstore.

President Elrod was inspired by
ﬂags at the graduation ceremony at
the University of Virginia. He wants
one ﬂag for the whole university,
one for the Williams School, one for
the Law School and one for the Col-
lege.

“The idea was to try to bring
some color into our commencement
ceremony and to add some ﬂair,”

The ﬂags will be used at Fall
Convocation, Commencement and
Baccalaureate.

Professor Holt Merchant is orga-
nizing the competition. “We
thought that this would be a good
way to involve the student body,”
he said. “It is a much nicer idea than
to pay a consultant who doesn’t
know us. We want someone who
knows us to do it.”

There are no formal guidelines
for design, but Elrod gave a few
hints. “I hope they will be colorful,
perhaps with Latin inscriptions,” he
said. “I hope that the students’ in-
spiration and creativity will bring us
some wonderful designs to choose
from.”

Proposals should be submitted to
Professor Merchant in the Depart-
ment of History, no later than Thanks-
giving break. The winners will be an-
nounced before Christmas break.

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

 

FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE PAT
BUCHANAN TO SPEAK AT W&L

Patrick J. Buchanan, columnist and former presidential candidate, will speak at
W&L on Tues., Nov. 18 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The public is invited to attend
and there will be a reception following the speech in the Great Hall of the Science
Center. The event is sponsored by Contact, the Mock Convention Committee and the
Young America Foundation.

Buchanan has been a senior advisor to three presidents and twice a candidate for
the Republican nomiation for President. He was an assistant to Richard Nixon from
1966 to 1974 and White House Director of Communications for Ronald Reagan from
1985 to 1987. In 1992, Buchanan challenged George Bush for the Republican nomi-
nation for President, and in 1996, he won the New Hampshire primary. He went on
to finish second to Senator Bob Dole with 3 million Republican votes.

After leaving the White House in 1974, Buchanan became a syndicated columnist
and a founding member ofthree ofthe most enduring television political talk shows:
The McLaughlin Group, CNN’s Capital Gang and Crossﬁre.

W&L FILM SOCIETY TO PRESENT LATEST WOODY

ALLEN FILM

Everyone Says I Love You (USA, 1996), an offbeat musical comedy directed by
Woody Allen, is the next ﬂlm society presentation. Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m.
on Fri. and Sat., Nov. 14 and 15, in the Troubadour Cinema. There is no charge for
admission, but contributions are welcome.

Everyone Says [Love You is Allen’s 26th film, and his first musical. Cast members
include Allen, Goldie Hawn, Alan Alda, Edward Norton and Natalie Portman.

POET AND DANTE TRANSLATOR TO READ

Allen Mandelbaum, translator, poet and scholar, will read from his work on
Tues., Nov. 18 at 4 p.m. in the Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium. The public
is invited to attend this reading, sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Program.

Mandelbaum’s verse translations include Virgil’s Aeneid, Dante’s Inferno and
Homer’s Odyssey.

W&L CONCERT GUILD PRESENTS THE
NETHERLANDS CHAMBER CHOIR, NOV. 17

The W&L Concert Guild will present its second event this season with the Nether-
lands Chamber Choir on Mon., Nov. 17, at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

The choir will perform Singet dem Herrn ein neues lied by Bach, Mass in E-Flat,
Op. 109 (Cantas Missae) by Rheinberger, Choral Songs by Mendelssohn, Due
composizioni coralu by pizzetti, Reincarnations by Barber and Del [ubilo del core
che esce in voce by Heppener.

Tickets are required for the Concert Guild Series. For more information and reser-

he Said vations, call the Lenfest Box Office, (540)463-8000.

NORFOLK SOUTHERN MARKETING MANAGER TO I

SPEAK AT W&L, NOV. 20

John M. Kraemer, marketing manager for the agricultural division of Norfolk South-
ern Corporation, will speak at W&L on Thurs., Nov. 20, at 7 p.m. in Room 327 ofthe
Commerce School. The topic of his talk will be “Transportation: Marketing pi
Perpectives From The Inside Out.” A question and answer session will follow the
lecture. The public is invited to attend.

UNIVERSITY SCHOLARS PRESENTS ‘STATE OF THE

DISCIPLINE LECTURE SERIES’

The University Scholars will present the first in the 1997-98 “State ofthe Dicipline
Lecture Series” Wed., Nov. 12 at 7:30 p.m. in duPont Auditorium. The lecture will
be given by Professor Ellen Mayock and is titled, “Latina Writers: Bicultural
Contruction.” The public is invited and refreshments will follow the lecture. 9 (

SCHOLAR TO SPEAK ON CHINESE CULTURE

“Privledged and imperiled: Children of the Han Court” is the title of the lecture that will
be given by Anne Behnke Kinney, associate professor of Chinese at the University of
Virginia, on Tues., Nov. 18, at 4:30 p.m. The lecture, which is sponsored by the East Asian
Studies Program at W&L, is open to the public. 9

—Compiled by Kathryn Mayurnik ’

 DIET
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

The Slim Fast diet “guarantees” that
you will lose ﬁve pounds in ﬁve days.
Gorodetskaya lost three.

The Suzanne Somers diet entailed
complicated combinations of food
groups on specific days.

“I didn’t lose any weight with that
one,” she said.

Senior Erin Rosencrans has used the
“cabbage soup” diet. The diet lasts for a
week, and you can eat as much cabbage
soup as you want all week, mixed with
different combinations of fruits, vegetables
and some meat and chicken.

“You lose seven to ten pounds, but it
makes you really tired,” Rosencrans said.
“And you have to start eating normally
‘very slowly, or else you get sick.”

Then there are those who turn to more
inventive measures. An anonymous se-
nior purchased a bottle of “Body Sculp-
ture” thigh cream from a magazine, which
is guaranteed to “make your body of work
of art.” The bottle claims that “individu-
als in one study lost  three to six inches
from their thighs with no skin rashes.”

“It’s made my skin really smooth,” the
senior said. “But I think it was probably a
waste of money. I think I’m going to send
it back.”

For more information about healthy
eating and correct methods of weight loss,
stop by the Health Center and check out
the many brochures available.

Featuring Balanchine’s
Concerto Bzzrocco 65'
Butler’s Czzrminzz Burzzmz

Nov. 10th & 11th
8:00 p.m. ° Lenfest Center
Tickets' 463-8000
$3 for W&L students, faculty 8C staff

 

W&life

 

 

   

, NOVEMBER 10, 1997 PAGE 3
F
F
F
!

BY ERICA PROSSER STAFF WRHER D-ryde. The one and only.” brother and her mother, as well.

Senior Stephen Osborn had more of a story to tell about his old plate, Gasparovic had a story about the confusion her nickname has caused.

   SGL-GUY. “When I was in the 6th grade, my class was at our end of the year picnic

I ' ' “Well, I had a vanity plate sophomore year which read SGL GUY (Single and everyone was swimming,” she said. “My dad yelled ‘Snake’ to get my

It’s not a foreign language, and it’s not a strange new government
code. These are examples of some of the vanity plates found on the cars of
W&L students. How many students have vanity plates? The plates seem
to run rampant in the student parking lots, but Mike Young, Director of

Guy). This, of course, referred to, well  the fact that I was eternally single,”
he said. “Shortly after I got [the plates], I met a girl and, well  the plates had
to go. Funny thing though, after I got rid of the plates, she got rid of me. So
now I have those very boring, very plain all white Virginia plates, but, hey, at

attention, and 6th graders starting running out of the river because they thought
that there was a snake in the water. I couldn’t figure out what was going on
because I just answered out of habit.”

,1, W&L security, said that there really aren’t many W&L students with per-

sonalized plates this year.

“In fact, there are probably more professors with vanity plates than

students.” he said.

For the few out there who might not know, vanity plates are personal-
‘ ized license plates for cars. For a fee, people can decide what their little
metal placard says. Some people choose to reveal their name, their person-
ality, or even their hair color in the seven or eight letter space. Several online
websites specialize in vanity plates by offering examples of interesting mes-
sages and stories (the most common vanity plate, incidentally, is the kind

least I am still the single guy.”

Colleen McFeely (’98 L) has plates that come from a nickname she earned

in the Navy.

“My license plate is ‘FRGIE’ - stands for Fergie,” she said. “They give you

call-signs (nicknames) in a Navy aviation squadron. You know, like in Top Gun.
Anyway, when I was stationed at a Navy F-14 squadron, they started calling me
Fergie, because somebody thought I looked like her (Sarah Ferguson)?’

Junior Dale Pretila has plates that aren’t even his. Well, half of the plates
are his. The plates were personalized to his brother because the car was his
brother’s before it was his.

 

Gasparovic chose SSSNAKE because SNAKE was already taken in Mary-
land, her state.

Don’t be fooled by imitations in the world of vanity plates. Mike Young
mentioned that some Virginia plates that look special may not be vanity plates.
Rather, they are the special Virginia—issue plates that always begin with “W&L,”
in honor of the school. The next three letters or numbers in the sequence may
or may not be chosen by the car’s owner. ‘

Senior Maggie Wooldridge doesn’t have a vanity plate like most people,
but her plate is still out of the ordinary. It looks like a Texas flag, and it says
“Texas, State of the Arts” at the bottom.

“We ordered it through the museum of ﬁne arts in Houston,” she said.

4
with the names of a couple on it, like DAN N JAN or BOBANDJ O). “On the back, the vanity plate reads NOEL, which is my brother’s name,” Similar special-order plates without personalized letters or numbers exist
Some campus plates are pretty obvious: W&L or W&L l, for example, he said. “On the front, however, is a neat plate that reads MINE.” in most states for a higher fee than standard plates. One that appears fre-
stand for the institution of higher learning we call home. Others could use Second-year law student Shannon Gasparovic’s plate is a name her fa- quently in Virginia, for example, is the “Save the Chesapeake” plate that fea-
some explaining. ther coined for her. tures Chesapeake Bay wildlife on a blue background. Those who buy this
4 Sophomore Denise Wallin said that her plate, D RYDE, is pretty simple “My license plate (‘SSSNAKE’) is because my father has called me ‘Snake’ plate are also making a donation to the Save the Chesapeake Foundation.
to understand. since I was an infant,” she said. She doesn’t know why her father chose this While not every strange plate on campus can be explained, at least some
“It’s because my name is Denise and it’s my ride,” she said. “It’s the name, and he claims that he doesn’t know, either. He has pet names for her of the confusion has been cleared up.
1
4.
R
WHAT do you get for the student who has everything? Vanity plates complement students ' sport utility vehicles and provide an excellent way to give useless information to complete strangers. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR
i.

Liberty Hall is the site of ritual gatherings
* DEBAUCHERY AT THE RUINS

CD This weekend is the last tail-
gate of the year. By the way, the
Generals will play Swarthmore
down on Wilsongﬁeld.

I BY KELLEY Torn~:N

STAFF WRHE2

t’s Saturday, 11 a.m. and you’re ironing.

Preparing for an interview? No, you’rejust

“ etting ready to head out to Liberty Hall

ruins with the rest of Washington & Lee’s stu-

dent body for an afternoon of socializing and

drinking. Oh yeah, and for the first half of a
football game.

This Saturday will be W&L’s last tail-

gate of the season, which coincidentally is

the last home football‘ game this year. W&L

students don’t really question the purpose

V of this Saturday afternoon tradition. They

dress up, head to the ruins, drink, and dis-

. perse. Some go to the football game; some

go home.

“At W&L, [the tailgate’s purpose] is to
socialize —— to see and be seen,” said Alison
Rohas, senior, who transferred her sopho-
more year from University of Virginia.

“It’s a different culture there com-

,1 pletely,” she said. “Fall focuses around
‘ football at UVA. Here, it’sjust sort ofa nice
little addition.”

Tailgates at UVA and other big schools are
merely the precursor to the football game. Its
intent serves to boost school spirit and excite-
ment, along with alcohol levels. The games also
become a community event. Alumni return for
every game, notjust Homecoming.

In Alabama, Auburn University football fans
show their spirit through their
devotion to the school mascot. 
Home games at Auburn trans-
form the small town into a cha-
otic mass of“War Eagle fever.”

“Random shouts of ‘war

I think we ’re better
than other schools.

pressive, said Jon Hughes, junior. He visited
friends at University of Notre Dame during Read-
ing Days in October.

“30,000 people in the parking lot is over-
whelming,” he said. “But it’s not as classy as
we do it. And it’s harder to get beer.”

W&L students may not have the numbers
or the spirit, but they do have
class. The guys sport their
“uniform” of khakis with
W&L belts, white button-
downs and ties. The women
have more options, but few

eagle’ can be heard all around We get dolled up stray from the safety of the
you,” said Auburn senior Kim- standard sundress or “some-
berly Collins, “from little kids and lookpretly and thing black.”
yelling it to you from the street Sl’l0W oﬂour co0kie- “I think we’re better than
to people just saying it in pass- cutter c[0theS_ other schools,” said Tim Zink,
ing in place of‘hello’.” senior. “We get dolled up
The entire population and look pretty and show off
clothes itself in blue and or— - Tim Zink our cookie-cutter clothes.”

ange garments. Future genera-

tions of Auburn graduates

come to games with their fami-

lies, dressed as cheerleaders and football play-
ers. The bigger the game, the bigger the ma-
nia surrounding it.

“For really big games, some people set up
‘camp’ in their R.V.s a week in advance and hang
around campus until after the game,” Collins said.

The spirit, multiplied by the thousands of
fans, can make the tailgates at big schools im-

CASEY HUKE, ‘O0, enjoys the tailgate during Parents Weekend. H011./sT1;R H()I’7;'Y/PHOYI) EDITOR

The absence of beer at

,9 W&L tailgates is one of the

most obvious differences be-

tween W&L and other schools. Students can be

found mixing, shaking and stirring drinks at Lib-
erty Hall, but never pumping a keg.

W&L students do not stoop to using as-
phalt; parking lots are for cars. The ruins pro-
vide a scenic backdrop for everyone’s Kodak
moments, as well as unifying the student body
in one location.

“At UVA, there is no real area where ev-
eryone can gather,” said Rohas. “I just like
the designated area here where we can all hang
out together.”

At Wake Forest University, a liberal arts
school in Winston-Salem, N.C., with approxi-
mately 3,600 students, undergraduates relate to
W&L students’ attitudes. Tailgates provide a fun
excuse to party away from the Friday and Satur-
day night fraternity parties, said WFU senior
Kristin Thompson. The tailgates bring everyone
together in a relaxed atmosphere where conver-
sation is the primary medium of entertainment.

“Unfortunately at Wake, I don’t know iftail-
gates boost school spirit,” said Thompson. “Our
football team sucks so no one goes into the
game. But we still love Wake Forest, so in that
sense parties make you appreciate your school.”

If school spirit equates to enthusiasm for
tailgates, then W&L students are bursting with
pride. But for many, it’s the socializing and alco-
hol, not the football, that generates excitement.

“We should have [tailgates] every week-
end,” said Laura Knapp, junior, “regardless of
football games.”

MEGAN
JOHNSON

UPCOMING ROLE: Meg (“Crimes ofthe Heart”)

Johnson’s performance of Meg will be the culmination of her Senior
Thesis Project. The play is about three sisters who return to their home-
town to face their “crimes.” Johnson chose “Crimes of the Heart” for
her project because of its strong female roles. “lt’s a very introspective

but funny show,” she said.
OPENING NIGHT: Feb. 6

 

FIRST ROLE: Max (“Where the Wild Things Are”)

PREVIOUS LENFEST ROLES: Maid (“She Stoops to Conquer”),
Monkey (“Faust”), Lydia (“Children of a Lesser God”), Ann (“Present
Tense”), Maria (“Uncle Vanya”)

REPUTATION EARNED THROUGH PERFORMANCES:
“In almost every show I’ve been in, I have taken off some article of
clothing.”

HOURS PER WEEK SPENT IN THE THEATER: 10-30 hours
(depending on rehearsal schedules)

“It’s a love/hate relationship. I feel if you really have a love of theater,
you stick with it. Sometimes you complain about it, but when it’s not
there, there’s an empty space in your life.”

MOST HUMOROUS EXPERIENCE ON STAGE: During the
One Acts last year, Johnson played a teenage girl in “Present Tense.”
In one scene, she was in bed with her boyfriend. The stage was dark so
the audience couldn’t see what was happening, but the lines were very
suggestive: ‘No, I do11’t want to.’ ‘Why?’ ‘Because.’ ‘But why not?’ It
was a humorous scene, but during one show, the audience seemed to
ﬁnd it extremely amusing. After the show, Johnson found out what
everyone found so funny. When the male character asked Johnson,
“Why not?" Johnson’s father answered, “Because her father is in the

, audience.”

OTHER MAJOR: Broad-
cast Journalism

Johnson combined her tele-
vision production skills and
her dramatic talent during
Spring Term last year. Star-
ring in her own production
of the MTV game show
“Singled-Out,” Johnson
filled the role of Jenny
McCarthy.

AFTER GRADUATION
PLANS: Johnson plans to
save money for a “bi g move”
to the West Coast where she
will try screen work for five
years. “It will be my make-it-
or-break—it time.”

 

Jonson, with an Leavy ( 97)
—Comp1led by Fmnues Iilztor 711ml) Grant

  
   

  

“No one can telliyou how to act. It's something
Within you that you have to find.” — Megan Johnson

 

PAGE 4

 

RESULTS

Football (3-6)
Sat.: ..W&L 17
Emory & Henry 27

Volleyball (16-9)

Sat.: Guilford 1
W&L 3
Sat.: E. Mennonite 2
W&L 3

Men’s Soccer (11-6)
Tues.: Hampden-S 1
W&L
Sat.: Va. Wesleyan
W&L

F-‘l\)l~J

Men’s X-Country
1st place at ODAC Toumey

Women’s X-Country
2nd place at ODAC Toumey

Men’s Swimming (1 -1)

Sat.: W&L 127
Centre 70

Women’s Swimming

(1 -1)

Sat.: W&L 118

Centre 79

AHEAD

Football
Sat.: Home at 1:30
vs. Swarthmore

Swimming
Sat.: at Swanee

Wrestling
Tues.: VMI Keydet
Invitational

Cross Country
Sat: Regional Champs

Soccer
ﬁnishes
second

CHRIS KAUFI-‘MAN
STAFF Wnrrnz

The men’s soccer season ended
abruptly Saturday afternoon as Wash-
ington and Lee surrendered a 2-0 loss
to Virginia Wesleyan in the semiﬁnal
round of the ODAC tournament.

With less than ﬁve minutes ticked
off the clock, the Generals gave up a
goal to Virginia Wesleyan’s Nathan
Hatcher. The Generals put up a val-
iant effort to comback, out-shooting
Virginia Wesleyan 15-8, but were un-
able to find the back of the net. Vinnie
Scullio made the score 2-0 in Virginia
Wesleyan’s favor late in the first half,
and the Generals were unable to re-
spond with a goal of their own. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan advanced to the finals,
and the Generals returned with over-
all record for the season of 1 1-6.

The 1997 fall proved to be a mix
of triumph and disappointment for the

<DSeeSOCCERpage5

sports

 

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

Generals capture ODACs

Volleyball wins
second crown
behind Beard’s
51 assists

BY KEITH WEIDNER
MT STAFF \WRITER

The W&L volleyball team captured
the school’s second conference cham-
pionship Saturday, beating Eastern
Mennonite in a ﬁve-set thriller.

The Generals accomplished what
they have failed to do the last two sea-
sons, which is win the regular season
crown as well as the more important
tournament championship. They ended
the season with a 19-9 record, courtesy
of a nine game winning streak to con-
clude the season.

The top-seeded Generals beat East-
em Mennonite on October 30 to earn
the regular season conference crown.
Mennonite put up a better ﬁght in the
rematch, but W&L won 15-13, 5-15,
16-14, 14-16, 15-11. Senior Ali Beard

AS THE GUN sounds, the men ’s cross country team takes oﬂ toward the third lowest score in ODAC history.

had 51 assists and sophomore Nancy
Reinhart added 16 kills to lead the Gen-
erals. Seniors Hilary Martin and Holly
Thomsen also added 13 kills each.

“Winning the championship my se-
nior year is so awesome,” said
Thomsen. “This was an extremely dif-
ﬁcult tournament, but our determina-
tion and especially our strong defense
won it for us.”

In the quarterfinal match, the top-
seeded Generals faced Emory and
Henry. Behind the offensive leadership

Ho1.L1SrER H0 VEY/PHOTO EDITOR

of junior Megan Snodgrass and
Reinhart, who each totaled 14 kills,
W&L won the match 15-4, 15-12, 13-
15, 15-2. They had to battle through
the temporary loss of Martin, who was
injured late in the ﬁrst game. The Gen-
erals struggled in games two and three
without her, though she came back in
the fourth game to help the Generals
crush E&H 15-2. Thomsen added 12
kills and Beard 42 assists to the offen-
sive attack, while the defensive leaders

were freshman Melissa Williams, who
had ﬁve blocks, and Reinhart, who had
19 digs. In limited action, Martin con-
tributed ﬁve kills and three blocks.

In semiﬁnal action, the Generals
faced Guilford, the team that ended their
23 game ODAC regular season win-
ning streak, which had dated back to
1995, in mid-October. Many on the
team credit that loss to a change in atti-
tude for the Generals.

“Before our loss to Guilford, we

Football loses heartbreaker to
Emory & Henry 27-17

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

u

Coming into yesterday’s game, the Generals hadn’t
defeated the Emory & Henry Wasps since 1982. In 1982
most of this freshman class was about three years old,
Ronald Reagan was in ofﬁce, and a guy named Mike.Jor-
dan was playing for the North Carolina basketball team.

For the ﬁrst three quarters of yesterday’s game at E&H
it looked as though the string of 14 consecutive losses to
E&H might come to an end. With less than 10:00 to go in
the game, the Generals led 17-6 but a fourth quarter col-
lapse which included four W&L turnovers led E&H to a
27-17 comeback win. The win also extended the Wasps
home winning streak to 32 games, the second longest cur-
rent home winning streak next to Nebraska.

The Generals scored on their ﬁrst drive of the game as
a scrambling Christian Bachelor found freshman tailback
Wesley Sayers in the back of the endzone to give the Gen-
erals a 7-0 lead. The Wasps responded near the end of the
1st quarter when Chris Helvey ran three yards for a touch-
down but the extra point sailed wide left and the Generals
still led 7-6.

In the second quarter Batchelor was intercepted by the
Wasps’ Gerald Jones who ran the ball back 59 yards for
an apparent E&H touchdown. The touchdown was called
back because of a holding penalty on the run back, but the
Wasps still had the ball on the Generals’ 12-yard line.
Minutes later it looked as though the Wasps had scored
again, but a holding penalty called back another potential
E&H score.

The Generals defense than forced the Wasps to turn
the ball over on downs and then drove 74 yards to set up a
Matt Holbrook 24-yard ﬁeld goal and the Generals led
10-6 at halftime. Penalties would plague the Wasps all
day long as they would ﬁnish with 13 penalties for 115
yards.

In the second half, the Generals gained even more
momentum as Christian Batchelor threw a incredible 78-
yard touchdown pass to J .T. Malatesta. Malatesta simply
outran his man on a ﬂy pattern and went all the way for
the score. The Generals defense would keep the E&H
offensive attack in check until the fourth quarter as nu-

STAFFWRITER

merous players stepped up to shut down the Wasps on
critical 3rd and 4th down plays. All phases of the game
were clicking for the Generals and it looked as though
they might pull off the improbable upset.

But then there was the fourth quarter. The disaster
began when the Wasp’s leading rusher, Oliver Jordan,
returned to the game after missing the ﬁrst half of the
game with an injured knee. Jordan helped the Wasps drive
56 yards for a touchdown; the drive was capped off by a
6-yard scramble by senior quarterback Aaron Brand for
the touchdown.

Then, with less than 6:00 to go in the game and the
Generals up 17-14, freshman Wesley Sayers fumbled the
ball on his own 3-yard line where it was recovered by the
Wasps. E&H converted on the turnover and took the lead
21-17 after a Chris Helvey two-yard touchdown run.

The Generals looked like they were going to regain
the lead as they drove 62 yards down the field, but
Batchellor was intercepted by Issac Williams on the E&H
14-yard line after the pass was batted up into the air. The
Generals got the ball back with 2:00 left but Batchellor
threw 4 straight incomplete passes and the Wasps got the
ball back and put the game away after Helvey ran 24 yards
for his third touchdown of the game. The extra point was
blocked.

It was a hard loss for the Generals to swallow as they
led for almost all of the game. Until the four turnovers in
the ﬁnal quarter the Generals played nearly a ﬂawless
game. It was a great effort by the Generals on both sides
of the ball. The Generals ﬁnish out the season next week
at Wilson ﬁeld against Swarthmore.

 Sitatsi        .

. lst Rushes- Passing Off. Plays- Tm,
* Downs Yards Yards Yards .

E&Il17 60-232 59711 76-329 ‘f 33:46
W&L 17: 21-22 304 65-326 26:14

Club Hockey revived, looking for a win

RING-TUM PHI WIRE SERVICE

ashington and Lee’s ice
hockey program is off to a
promising start this season

despite its 0-2-1 record.

Plagued in the early few weeks by
injuries and schedule conflicts, the
young team has shown plenty of po-
tential to make the rest of this year as
exciting as their electrifying come-
back against rivals VMI.

The biggest problem for W&L has
been getting a full lineup on the ice.
Several team members’ equipment did
not arrive in Lexington until after the
second game, and scheduling conﬂicts

such as homecoming weekend left the
Generals short-handed in each of their
ﬁrst three games.

The highlight of the season so far
was the homecoming weekend game
against undefeated VMI. The Gener-
als put up only six skaters against
VMI’s three full lines. After leading
most of the game, a weary W&L al-
lowed VMI to charge to an 8-5 lead
in the third period. Down by two, with
just over three minutes remaining in
the game, the Generals rallied to a tie.
Senior Dave “Brewsky” Bruett scored
both goals, the first on an awesome
end to end play started by a perfect
pass from junior George Urban. VMI

was left stunned by the comeback.
The ﬁrst three games were a tre-
mendous learning experience for the
team. Never having played together
and not having an ice rink for prac-
tice placed the team at an immediate
disadvantage to the rest of the league.
The Generals have come together,
though, and expect a great season.
Bruett and sophomore Jamie Buckley
are the team’s offensive sparkplugs,
scoring a majority of the goals in the
ﬁrst three games. Urban is due to bust
out of his goal-scoring drought, hav-
ing hit two posts and a cross-bar this
season. Freshman Brian “The Long
Island Goon” Bagdonas leads the team

in penalty minutes, putting fear into
the Generals’ opponents.

Senior Doug Panzer has made key
contributions along with Bryan
Petrilla, Brooke deRosa and Jeff
Sloan. Steve Bucci, who suffered a
broken toe in game one, should return
to the line-up soon.

The Generals return to action at
the Roanoke Civic Center on No-
vember l9th at 8:45 p.m., against
Roanoke College. The team is ﬁred
up and hopes to see a few fans in
the crowd. Parking and admission
are free. Bring your own refresh-
ments. There is no security to check
your backpack.

were a complacent team. After that
game, our attitudes changed. We real-
ized that we weren’t going to have the
season we expected to have if we con-
tinued our lackluster approach to vol-
leyball,” said Thomsen.

Guilford was the only conference
loss of the year for the Generals. W&L
avenged that loss with a 15-10, 14-16,
15-1 1, 15-6 victory. Reinhart led the
offense with 23 kills. Beard had 47 as-
sists, while Thomsen had 15 kills.

Callen grabs
individual title,
Cross Country

dominates
13‘I_MAlT_MlIE5‘E.LL_

STAFF Wanna

The Washington and Lee men’s
cross country team dominated the
ODAC Championships Saturday en
route to a score of 26, the third lowest
in conference history.

With a time of27:07, senior Jason
Callen won the overall title earning
ODAC runner of the year honors.
Along with Callen, senior Will Olson
who placed second, freshman Alex
Taylor who ﬁnished ﬁfth, and senior
Greg Ruthig who came in sixth all
earned All-ODAC honors.

Other top ﬁnishers for the Gener-
als were Darrick Alford who ﬁnished
10th and senior Taylor Shultz who f'm-
ished 11th.

The W&L women’s cross country
team ﬁnished second to Lynchburg
College by only five points, 35-40, at
ODAC Championships on Saturday.

Junior Natasha Dorofeeva and se-
nior Carson Flowers ﬁnished second
and fourth respectively to earn All-
ODAC honors for the Generals. Other
top ﬁnishers for the team were Lisa
Brennan who finished 10th, Jana
Heisler who ﬁnished 1 1th, and Ashley
Smith who finished 13th.

Both teams compete Saturday at
the NCAA Regional Championships.

  

We are the Champions . . .

CHI OMEGA (T.-1/’I'URl:'1) rm; 1 997 woM1;N'.s‘ INTRAMURAI. BASKEIBAL1,

CHA/\1I’I()NSHI1’.

THI5 A/ll;‘N IS INIIt.»lr’\{URAI. 'IENNI.S' FLA Y()I"I7S BEGIN THURSDAY, WITH THE

('THAIt1I’I()NSI‘III’ T() HE PLA Ylil) NI:)\7'.?lI()r\'I)AY AT 40 I’.M. IN THE TENNIS CENTER.

It is that time of year again to re-
cap the accomplishments of the W&L
fall sports teams. They can be
summed up in one word: fantastic.

One tradition we can always count
on here is our fall sports teams doing
well. Year after year, all of the teams
are at .500 or better by the end of the
season. In fact, we can become
spoiled by their success and not real-
ize how much effort goes into main-
taining a winning tradition. It is never
a problem for W&L to getmotivated
for big weekends and games against
rivals like Roanoke and Hampden-

mance in the games between that
count the most. Judging by their sea-
son records, the fall sports teams did
not have a problem motivating them-
selves against lesser opponents and

of writing on Saturday afternoon, the
teams were a combined 46-22.
What is more impressive is that
four teams had chances to win cham-
pionships this weekend, the last ma-
jor weekend of the fall sports season.
The men ’ s cross country and
women’s volleyball teams captured
their ODAC titles. Although the
men’s soccer team’s dream of an im-
probable ODAC title ended against
Virginia Wesleyan, the team still ﬁn-
ished a hi ghly-successful season with
an 1 1-6 overall record. The women’s

THE BIG FAN
BY SCOTT BOOKWALTER

Genera|s fa"  
were “Fan-tastic,’.’  C

Sydney, but it is the Generals perfor- ‘

non-conference teams. At the time .

cross country team ﬁnished second.

The women’s soccer team’s sea-
son ended last weekend, and it too
had a terriﬁc 1997 campaign. The
Generals had their best season ever,
establishing a‘ season record with 14
wins against only two losses. Un-
fortunately, one of those losses came
in the ODAC semiﬁnals, which
eliminated the Generals from the con-
ference toumament and a chance at
the NCAA tournament :

The men’s soccer team knew it
would have a tough time moving up
the ladder in the ODAC tournament,
seeded sixth, but that did not stop it
from knocking off nationally-ranked
Hampden—Sydney along the way.
Aﬁer three straight heartbreaking 2-
1 overtime losses, the Generals this
time made their one goal stand up,
prevailing 1-0 when a last-second H-
SC ﬂee kick sailed high.

It took the volleyball team (most
of the season to ﬁnd itself, but when
it did, the rest of the league had no
chance. The Generals rolled off eight
straight wins near the end of the sea-
son to win their third straight regu-
lar-season title and the ODAC cham-
pionship. A bigger problem for the
team will come after the season
when it must decide how to replace
the senior trio of Hilary Martin,

BIGFAN pages

 

 

  

NOVEl\/[BER 10, 1997

The sulfuric dance of.
the little people

A tel‘evis‘io'n rests, inert, on a me-
tallic foot _locker in my dorm room.
Its screen displays nothing but static
since it is not connected to the exte-
rior cable service yet. However this
does not prevent me from collapsing
on my bed and turning on the televi-
sion. Contrary to what you may be-
lieve, observing static is not that un-
interesting; in fact, I ﬁnd it more
stimulation than many of the altema-
tives offer by cable (e.g. any show un-
fortunate enough to be part of ABC’s
“TGIF”).

    

During one of my periods of re-
laxation in front of the static machine,
the static faded away to reveal a tele-
vision show “already in progress” (I
knew this because a disembodied
voice had just told me so). This show
consisted of an outrageously tall man,
who conversed with one of the little
people, who I believe to be elves, but
I am told that they are “midgets”. I
have also been told that I should not
refer to these people by either of these
two descriptions. I am not sure what
these little people prefer to be called,
I have heard that they should be re-
ferred to as vertically challenged, but
I am sure that this must be a joke.

At any rate, the conversation be-
tween the two men went as follows:

Disembodied voice: This program
has been taped in front of a live stu-
dio audience.

Tall Man: What does it mean to
you?

Short Man: What does what mean
to me?

T: What do you mean?

S2 What is this “it” of which you
ask?

T: Well, “it” is: ( life, human ex-
istence, this conversation, Piaget’s
occlusion, the concept of microscopic
civilizations, etc, etc, etc. . .).

S: I’m sorry, were you just speak-
ing in parentheses?

T: Yes, I was. Why?

S: I cannot understand language
which is enclosed within parentheses.
You see, the first parenthesis is like a
language encryptor, which transforms
all words that follow, into nonsense

T: Well, that makes things very
difﬁcult.

S: How so?

T: The “it” I discussed earlier is
defined within parentheses; therefore,
it is impossible for me to explain it to
you.

S: Well, what should we do now?

T: How about the “Sulfuric Dance
of the Little People”

Before the short man can object, a
bucketful of concentrated sulfuric acid
splashes down from above. The short
man begins a reﬂexive series of gyra-
tions, as the sulﬁiric acid begins to
burn his ﬂesh.

This “Sulfuric Dance of the Little
People” was a huge success with the
“Live Studio Audience”, who ex-
ploded with a mixture of laugher and
applause with the short man’s ﬁrst
gyration. Even I sensed a slight grin
cross my face, for although I knew the
short man was inpain, his dance was
just too humorous to resist. He was
exactly like a giant dancing koala bear
that I had once seen, but that is an-
other story entirely.

Heading

Gt C€t€I' 21

PAGE 5

towards

the real world

I’m getting old. Now, I realize ev-
ery administrator and professor who
reads this paper is now rolling around
on the floor in hysterics at that state-
ment, but please bear with me. I’m
working towards my point. This real-

From a Bar Stool
Eric Swensen '98

ization hit me on Thursday. My after-
noon class had been canceled. It was
cold, rainy and dreary outside, so I
went back to my house. Unfortu-
nately, it has no insulation. Fortu-
nately, I had to do some laundry, so I
could sit next to the dryer for warmth.
Anyway, I was enjoying the silence
when my sister called me. She’s 17
and a senior in high school, but my
enduring memory of her is as a kin-
dergartner. It was the only time the
two of us were together in the same
school. I can still remember the ﬁrst
day of school that year when she and
her pigtails and bright, beaming smile
broke out of a line of little moppets to
come running over to me to say hi.
Since I was a big, tough ﬁfth grader, I
was incredibly embarrassed then.
Now, it brings a smile to my face.
Of course, that memory gets harder
and harder to hold onto every time I
talk to her. We talked Thursday for
twenty minutes, and she told me about
her college applications and the party
she threw while our parents were
down here visiting me. Specifically,
she told me how she got drunk, threw
up all over herself and broke one of
my mom’s vases. That, and she

doesn’t have pigtails anymore.

Just like my sister isn’t a kinder-
gartner anymore, things are changing
for me as well. I turned 21 this week-
end, and I’m sure at some point dur-
ing the weekend I fell off my bar stool.
It’s all happening too quickly. My sis-
ter should be at home with a baby sit-
ter, and I should be in the woods be-
ing chased by cops breaking up a high
school keg party. Instead, college
went by in about ﬁve minutes, and
now I’m faced with finding a career
and deciding what I want to do with
the rest of my life. Young people don’t
worry about this kind of crap. They
think from minute to minute, not years
down the road. Young people (young
men, at least) worry about if the beer’s
cold and if that young woman on the
dance ﬂoor in that short skirt is dat-
ing anybody.

Careers don’t come complete with
a Parents Weekend and Spring Term.
If you miss class two or three times a
term, your attendance record is exem-
plary. If you don’t show up for work
two or three times every twelve
weeks, you’ll probably get ﬁred.

This is life’s biggest transition. In
June, I’ll be starting out on my own,
hopefully with a job, hopefully with an
idea of where I’m going and how the
hell to get there. Right now, the only
thing I know, or at least I’m fairly cer-
tain of is that I’m graduating in June.
The rest is a big mystery. That scares
me to death.

My suggestion to everyone who’s
not graduating this year is this: Enjoy
the ride. And start looking at graduate
schools.

5.2,.) BIG FAN
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

Holly Thomsen and Alison Beard.
That will be next to impossible, con-
sidering that the Generals have lost
only once at home in the last three
years with that trio on the court.

If there is one W&L sports tra-
dition to count on, besides the fans
staying for only the first half, it is
the football team’s habit of starting
slow and ﬁnishing fast. Although
the team started the past three years
at 0-3, 0-2-1 and 1-4, it still man-
aged to finish each season with a
.500 record or better. It will falljust
short this season, but not by much.

Also this fall, the golfteam won
the Randolph-Macon/ODAC Invita-
tional en route to being ranked 19th
in Division III, and the men’s cross
country team captured the State
Championships. In tennis, junior
Dale Pretila took fourth place in Di-
vision III men’s singles, and seniors
Berry Blankinship and Ericka
Shapard finished sixth in Division
III women’s doubles.

A former W&L varsity sports
team, the water polo squad, also had
an amazing season. It definitely
showed with a remarkable 12-2
campaign. Maybe in the process it
turned the heads of those who
thought that the team could not
compete at the varsity level.

While the fall sports teams have
continued their winning tradition in
1997, the winter sports teams usu-
ally have a difﬁcult time following
suit. But optimism runs high at the
beginning ofthe season, and there
is no reason why the winter sports
teams cannot surprise the naysayers.
Congratulations to the Generals on
a successful fall season, and let us
hope that their success can become
a year—round tradition.

Ellie Ring-tum lﬂhi
  ONLINE

http://www. wlu. edu/~phi

Now, using your computer, you can:

- Check the latest campus news, features and opinions
- Check the latest Generals’ sports scores
- Read your favorite columns

- Check U.S. and international papers using our links

- Subscribe or advertise from our online request forms

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬁhi
IT'S JUST THAT EASY

Tuesday

High: 49°
Low: 39°

 

Wednesday

    

High: 47°
Low: 34°

 

High: 45°
Low: 35°

This Week’s Weather:

Thursday Friday

 

High: 47°
Low: 35°

Courtesy’ of the National Weather Service

 

High: 46°
Low: 29°

High: 45°
Low: 30°

Want to do
the “Hippy,
HlPPY
Shake” at
one in the
morning?

Want a

excuse to
fall asleep
in class
Monday
morning?

Ever

Span) your summer in the
Colombo 7€oo.éies

Experience the outdoors and help create
9°°d memories at King Mountain Ranch Resort.
For an application and our summer job
openings call 800-476-5464 or e-mail
hosts@kingranchresort.com

danced

with the
Devil in
the pale
moonlight?

Then work
for The
Ring-tum
Phi.

lIll|‘l|l mountain |l|IlllBl‘S

i 00% Wool Socks
Handmade by North Mountain Knitters

His goals go beyond Friday night blowouts. Which means if he drinks, he does
so responsibly. And that's what BACCHUS is all about. Students helping students
pursue healthy, responsible lifestyles. As a proud supporter of this organization,
Discover Card celebrates all students making their own healthy statements.

Go to www.bacchusgamma.org for more information or
www.discovercard.com/student to apply for a card.

Come to Sidewalk Sale @ 110 W Washington sr. gjfmfgou

‘V 33;dneS_ Fri. Nov. 14 &Sat. Nov. 15, 70-5 ;_+~===
463-7095

3 day night
meeting.

'7-'l‘J“4/ Gii3cri.«iw'u‘, Imxl Cifll wrmv f."iI"Vlip-: l'ilIL'

 

 

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

advertising

there are a variety of industries and business areas you can explore and excel in

 

You°Ve come this far. Now see how much farther you can go at Capital One — a company .
whose phenomenal growth is matched only by that of its employees. We°re more
than just one of the nations largest and fastest growing credit card issuers. Born in and
leading the information age, Capital One is an information-based company that°s bringing
powerful ideas, resources, and technology to scientific marketing, and shaping a variety of
existing and emerging industries. There°s no better place for creative, analytical, and ambitious
people to be. Then again, there°s no company quite like Capital One.

We invite yoy to explore the following  
Management Trainee opportunities now available
at Capital One. '

We will be on campus TONIGHT - Monday, November
10th, for a presentation hosted by
Dan Mortensen, Director of Operations, in Room 114
University Center from 7:00pm-8:30pm.
Refreshments will be served. ~

'   g CapitalOne® ‘

W/vere Information Builds Success.

We are an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in the workplace.
We promote a drug—free work environment.

For more information, visit our web site at www.capitalone.com 1 i

  
 

where one

 

 

PAGE 7

Nov. 10, 1997

It’s a jungle down
at Woods Creek

When we chose Washington and Lee, most

of us thought that we were coming to school in

the temperate Southeast. However, many

students later realized that Lexington is in fact

located in the rainforest. And what a cold and
rainy rainforest it is. Contrary to popular
belief, Lexington receives more anual rainfall
than Brazil.

All kidding aside, this school does not

properly address the fact that it does rain a lot.

In particular, the bridge that residents of
Woods Creek Apartments use to walk to the
library ﬂoods with the ﬁrst drops of rain. The
the little bustling stream of Woods Creek
transforms into a raging torrent, forcing stu-
dents either to wade knee-deep in freezing
water or go all way around to the path behind
the Commerce School. This has caused many
students to be late for class over the years.
The worst is when it rains during the day,
and you attempt to return to Woods Creek via
the back door of the library. Due to the poor

lighting, it is difﬁcult to see until you are right

on top of it that the creek is ﬂooded. One
choice is to walk over the other, higher bridge
that is closer to the law school. This too is

often ﬂooded, and one must perform a balanc-

ing act and walk on the ledge of the bridge

while holding on to the railing. Again, the area

behind Woods Creek East where the second
bridge lets you off is poorly lit, and the two
minute walk back to Woods Creek Central or
West can be frightening, not to mention cold
and wet.

A Phi staff member complained to a dean
and to building and grounds two years ago
about the situation. A few days later, B&G

workers were dredging the creek, in an attempt

to stop the ﬂooding. This was a commenable
act, but it did not improve the ﬂooding for
long. A new bridge needs to be built, before
residents of Woods Creek are carried down-
stream and washed away.

(6

 uote of the Week:

y__ ‘

Student 1: I thought that this was a small,

liberal arts school where you could always get

the classes you wanted.

Student 2: No, that just means that they can
call you by name when they tell you a class is

full.
—two students camping out for
class registration 
U1! 73' 1 1911'
Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
w&lMz Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Business Manager Rebecea Cuny
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown
Asst. Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The
Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but The Ring-tum Phiis otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be
in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center,
by noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit
sybmissions for content and length. Letters,
columns and "My Views" do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum P121’ or its
staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: pht@W1u.edu

Give Letitia a
chance; she’s
good to you

There is something you have always wanted to say,
but never had the nerve to say, for fear of being ridi-
culed by your friends. So I will say it for you: Letitia
Pate Evans Dining Hall is a great place to eat.

Alright, maybe you wouldn’t say that, but I would.
I have good reason to say it, too.

} ed Brick Row
 "4 Balsley 99

  

First, the food is usually good. I can ﬁnd some-
thing there every day that I want to eat. Between the
main serving lines and the vegetarian foods, the D-hall
offers three or four different options for each meal, at
least one of which is guaranteed to suit my tastes.

More importantly, the D-hall watches out for your
nutritional needs. If you have good intentions when
you start through the line, you’ll ﬁnd a healthy meal
on your tray when you’re done.

If you don’t like the food as the D-hall serves it to
you, either use it to ﬁx something you will like or ﬁnd
something else altogether. For instance, if that chicken
breast doesn’t seem too appetizing, slice it into strips
and put it over a salad. Or put it on a piece of bread,
add some cheese and marinara sauce from the pasta
bar, microwave it and add another slice of bread for a
chicken parmesan sandwich. Use your imagination.
Get slap-happy wild.

Admittedly, the D-hall serves some of the same
meals over and over again, and yes, they have found at
least seven different ways to feed you french fries (i.e.,
regular, shoe string, curled, criss-cross, crinkle-cut and
steak fries, as well as potato wedges and spiced ver-
sions of some of the above). But considering that the
D-hall serves hundreds of meals three times a day, they
do a great job. Give the D-hall a break: if you don’t
enjoy what’s being served, fmd something you will like.
You can enjoy every meal you eat at the D-hall.

Second, the D-hall has great atmosphere. Unlike
the Co-op, the D-hall is big enough to let you relax.
The columns add a stately feel to your meals. The
people who work there are friendly. Go ahead and talk
to Wanda: she already knows your name, your siblings’
names, your favorite meal and where you like to sit.
You’re in good company at the D-hall.

The the D-hall also gives you the opportunity to play
the D-hall games. For instance, you can eat your choco-
late pudding or mousse while holding it upside down.
You can celebrate if you get a green or pink tray or a
piece of silverware with a pattern. You can nickname
people who eat at the D-hall and compete with your
friends to see who ﬁnds them ﬁrst. You can rock out
to the Hanson or Spice Girls song on the radio.

Third, you can enjoy the D-hall for the effort the
people there put into making your holiday meals inter-
esting. Do you think the employees of a certain hoity-
toity Bostonian Ivy League university dining hall dress
up on Halloween and pass out candy? No! Yet an-
other reason why W&L is better than Harvard.

D-hall always celebrates holidays, which makes
eating there fun. Their decorations and special foods
help to relieve the doldrums of college life. I would
imagine that few other universities offer students a
semi-formal Christmas dinner that includes shrimp.

In addition, the D-hall’s celebration of Martin Luther
King Day is one of the few ways the holiday is hon-
ored on campus.

So give the D-hall another try. If you haven’t en-
joyed dining there before, go back with the intention
of eating a good meal and having fun doing it. With a
little effort, D-hall can be a great place to eat.

Pastries and

So I was sitting in my room, playing with my
Voltron action ﬁgures, when one of my fraternity broth-
ers burst in, complaining about having to ﬁll out a stack
of forms to register our next party. Like I give a damn
about how many forms he has to fill out. So I throw
one of the plastic lions at his head and tell him to shove
off. But later that night I was plagued with a troubling
though — why can’t I get a good knish in this town?

i-3,§:§i<ei»m McManemin ’00

No, wait, that wasn’t the thought. I was actually
wondering when our society turned into such a bunch
of pathetic, litigious little worms. Are there any as-
pects of our lives that aren’t controlled by lawyers? Is
there anything we can do without first having to ﬁll

The Bar Side

?

Professor Frickinfrack’s newest genetic engineering idea, the “Bud”vine, was
even more harebrained than the whole Heinekenopotamus ﬁasco.

Utopia is fading atrW&L

I ﬁrst visited W&L as a senior in
high school about three years ago and
was amazed that there actually was a
place where the students enjoyed their
lives, free from the trendy political
hyper-correctness that was ruining
other campuses nationwide. I also
visited many of the over-rated New
England schools and found miserable
students more worried about whether
they were being offended by another
than actually learning. So when the
time came to chose a college, there
was little debate that the little town in
Virginia would be my home for the
next four years.

:2-.:.: Bl Walker ’99

But over the last two years, this
university has changed. It hasn’t been
dramatic —— the Colonnade is still the
center of learning and khaki is still the
predominant color of campus — but
there is a noticeable difference in feel.
W&L is no longer a carefree commu-
nity of hardworking, fun-loving stu-
dents who never have to worry about
the trivial aspects of life, such as the
administration on the Hill.

But now everything is suspect. It’s
not as if the Hill is bugging our rooms

and passing curfews; the changes have
been more shadowy, more suspicious.
It is as if they were trying to change
things without our knowing. It’s dirty;
it’s underhanded, it’s wrong. More
importantly, it raises the question of
what the Hill really is trying to do with
the future of this school.

A good example of this is the re-
cent freshman class. I’ve met many
of them and they seem to be assimi-
lating relatively well into the W&L
community; that’s not the problem.
The trouble is there are so many of
them. Traditionally, W&L has striven
to maintain an undergraduate student
body of around 1600, or 400 per class.
The recent freshman class, however,
has almost 475 students.

While it would be a great thing to
let all the world experience the nir-
vana of W&L, that many students se-
riously hurts the ability of W&L to
maintain the traditional educational
experience that has made us famous.
Worse, President Elrod doesn’t seem
willing to hire additional faculty to
accommodate this new inﬂux of stu-
dents. Classes have swollen to unnec-
essary sizes, especially in history and
biology, two of the most popular ma-
jors on campus.

If the Hill wants to admit so many
students, they should be willing to hire
the faculty to provide us all with the

education our parents are paying for.

But who’s to say that letting in
more students is a good thing? W&L
has always been able to pride itself on
a small, exclusive student body. While
some people complain about lack of
autonomy, they are drowned out by
the praise of such a close-knit com-
munity. It’s safe to say the vast ma-
jority of W&L students feel lucky that
they are part of a community where
every student can be trusted, even
strangers

That sort of security is only pos-
sible in a small community. Merely
increasing the student body to 2000,
a hundred more students per class,
could prove disastrous to such a dell-
cate trust.

If the Hill does intend to pursue
this policy of increasing the enroll-
ment, it should explain why. I’m not
satisﬁed that anyone has done that.
As the attention of the nation turns
to us in the next few years for our
250th anniversary celebration, we
have a right to know in what direc-
tion they intend to lead this institu-
tion.

Will they totally eliminate frater-
nity drinking or dramatically in-
creasing minority enrollment? Both
seem likely. At this point it is not a
question ofright or wrong; it’s sim-
ply a matter of letting us know.

bureaucratic action figures

out papers? Anyway, if we continue down this slippery
slope of litigation, here is what all future parties will be like:
Hello, and welcome to Delta Iota Kappa ’s semi-an-
nual legally sanctioned co-ed social gathering! But be-
fore we let you in, we ’re going to need you to sign these
forms attesting to the fact that you ’re over 21. Then,
womyn, you ’re going to need to sign form 65 0—B waiving
your right to sue for sexual harassment should some het-
erosexually oriented male person make eye contact with
you. Guys, sign form 650—C. Now, I ’m required to warn
you that our band will be playing at unsafe decibel levels
and that entering the dance floor may put your eardrums
in danger. So if you ’d sign form 744-E waiving your right
to sue for eardrum damage, that would really help us out.
We do have a bar downstairs, but I'm legally required

to inform you that we also oﬂer a wide variety of soft drinks.
Also, we don ’t actually have any alcoholic beer, as the
insurance premiums would be too high, but we do offer a

tasty beer substitute! And we're going to have to cut you
oﬂ at one. Hey, sorry, I don 't make the rules, I just blindly
follow them. Well, that ’s about it. Come on in, and have
fun! But not too much fun! In fact, we ’re going to have to
ask you to sign form 6 77—F, swearing that you will not, in
fact, have any fun at all.

I think it’s time that we as a society put all this silliness
behind us and accepted the dumbass theory of human be-
havior. Basically, some people are dumbasses, and no
amount of laws and forms and papers is going to change
that. Protecting them is just a bad idea from the evolu-
tionary sense. What would Darwin say? He’d tell us to
let the defective genes drink themslves to death, and not
bury everyone else’s lives under mounds of paperwork.

To those of you who argue that every human life is
sacred and precious, I offer two words: Tom Arnold. Think
about that the next time you’re crusading to save lives.
And while you’re at it, find me a good knish.

T     If you could be any member of any band, who would you be?

 

“Maybe Gwen Stephanie or Stevie
Nicks. Or maybe Jewel would be
good...”

—Charlotte Graham ’99 Sic”

‘A.

“I’d like to be Dr. Alex Patterson,
a.k.a. ‘The Orb’ because he ex-
plores the depths of electronic mu-

 

-Daniel Sozomenu ’0l

“One of the Fiolent Femmes. I
don’t know their names, but any
one of them would be cool.”

-Anthony Dvarskas ’99

“I would be Elvis, ’cuz he was the
beginning of a whole era of mu-
sic. That would be cool.”

-Margaret Penn ’0l

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8

W&L Diversifies

By W111 Hardie
——-—-——————? Copy Editor

A few Washington and Lee seniors
seem to be doing some grouching.
Apparently the freshman class is a bit
too different, too diverse for some
people’s liking. There aren’t many
specific complaints, and it’s not that
this is a particularly radical bunch of
newcomers, they just don’t seem to
be doing things quite the W&L way.

This is a perennial problem at tra-
ditional institutions. It is almost a law
of nature that those who have grown
fond of a way of life lash out when
they feel that it is threatened. This
reaction is helpful when it stops new-
comers trying to ﬁx things that ain’t
broke. It is dangerous when it stiﬂes
the healthy dynamics of change that
keep institutions alive.

Naturally traditional and conserva-
tive, W&L can be proud of many of
its values: honor, stability, security,
tradition, heritage, excellence. These
qualities to some extent define what
W&L stands for. But they are not
automaticly threatened by novelty.
We must all look beyond what is al-
ready here. W&L is not perfect and it
will not get any closer to being per-
fect if its older students do not let new-
comers try out new ideas.

Diversity unsettles some people.
Part of this is a fear that newcomers
might unwittingly destroy something
valuable, and a feeling that they erode
comforting familiarity.

But on top of this, those who
grumble about change may be strug-
gling not to have to admit to them-
selves that new ways of going about
things might actually be better. Many
seniors are nostalgically aware that
freshmen still have a clear chance to
mold their college years. And if fresh-
men get more out of their college years

while not following in the tracks of
generations, that means that those
who did follow those tracks have
wasted their time. Better make sure
they conform then, just in case.

It has even been suggested that
Freshmen who are not “W&L types”
or who are not prepared quietly to
conform and change, should transfer
to a college which suits them better
rather than try to make this college
suit them. This is a tragic mistake. Di-
versity is crucial for people and for
institutions to ﬂourish.

People thrive on diversity. The
best way to reﬁne your ideas is to
have them challenged by people who
think differently. The best way to learn
about people is to meet as many
people as possible who have lived
different lives, who have seen things
you have not seen and thought
thoughts you have not thought. For
people who only ever meet people like
themselves, social life is an elaborate
hall of mirrors.

Freshmen should not be brain-
washed into generic W&L clones.
They have enough common sense to
see this college’s admirable qualities;
that is probably why they are here in
the first place. Leave the dynamics of
change alone.

W&L is a very homogeneous
place. One advantage of this is that it
is a friendly community. But pride and
homogeneity become a probem when
they constitute an inpenetrable bar-
rier to new ideas.

Institutions are subject to natural
selection. Do not let W&L become a
dinosaur. Be proud of its admirable
qualities but also be prepared to
change. If this college is not open to
diversity, it will be leﬁ by the way-
side. If you are not open to diversity,
you are wasting your life.

 

S€V€i'l

MCINDAY ir 8 p.m. Rich-
mond Ballet at the Lenfest Cen-

ter * TUEDAY ~k Richmond

Ballet at 8 p.m. ~k WEDNES-
DAY*DJatTH((D*Th1J1S-
day ~k watch must see T.V. ~k

FRIDAY ‘A’ Fridays! presents
Puchline in the GHQ at 8 p.m.
~k 5-7:30 p.m. Happy Hour at

KA*DJat2X at SATUR-
DAY * 1:30 p.m. Football

game (tailgating) ~k CDT A —
Agents of Good Roots at Legz

at 2d>E for Caveman -k rock
with Zen Trixters at ZN

Try some ‘Soul Food’

By Alex Christensen

The disturbing trend about Hollywood and black

  

came to mind as I watched this ﬁlm.

Nothing about “Soul Food” is one-dimensional.

people isn’t that Hollywood is willing to pay for
black movies that make money. That’s always
been the case. What is disturbing is that the
black non-buddy comedy ﬁlms Hollywoodrhas
been making lately, which make money, have been
uniformly entertaining and creatively dynamic.

Hollywood has been taking a big chance on
these ﬁlms, ﬁrst, because it senses
that the market for them exists, and
second, because it has no idea what kind of black

ﬁlm will make money. So instead of using the usual proﬁt criteria,

the studios have been entrusting modest budgets to promising tal-
ents and asking only that they not lose money. Far from losing
money, the ﬁlms have proven to be sleeper hits.

But this can’t last. Pretty soon, instead of learning that by giving
chances to talent, they can make money, Hollywood will start lump-
ing black non-buddy comedy ﬁlms into a big pile. We’ 11 have “Wait-
ing to Eat Soul Food” and “Set Up to Exhale.” So skip out to your
local theater now and check out what Hollywood has wrought with-
out even hardly meaning to, before it disappears.

“Soul Food” is ajoyful film about a black family in Chicago whose
life centers around Mama Joe (the fabulous Irma P. Hall), the family .
matriarch, whose abundant spirit and Sunday soul food dinners
keep them together. When Mama Joe’s health is endangered, so is
the life of the family. Ahmad (Brandon Hammond), Mama Joe’s
grandson, tries to bring the family back together despite the ob-
stacles it faces. The family is made up of Mama Joe’s three daugh-
ters and their families. The sisters are Teri (Vanessa L. Williams), an
attorney, Maxine (Vivica A. Fox), a housewife, and Bird (N ia Long),
who runs her own beauty salon. The relationships and motivations
of the characters are convincingly written and portrayed. There is a
certain soap opera feeling to it in places, but not any more than
exists in real life, and that’s what the ﬁlm recreates for the most part.

The acting by Hammond, Hall, and Fox as three generations of
family members adds up to more than the sum of its parts. Fox’s face
echoes Hall’s in a particularly powerful scene.

Cinematographer Paul Elliott’s lighting and camera work bring
out the faces and the emotions of the black cast in a way I haven’t
seen done quite so successfully since “Do the Right Thing.” He’s ;
lighting their faces from a black perspective, just as white movie
star’s faces have been lit from white perspectives. The characters,
accordingly, feel bigger, more real. The phrase “people of color”

P/21' Movie Critic

 

last Word

 Where’s the Beef?

   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
     
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

§#"$$'

Ill
,,
5m§,/:-,5ss:
w,,§..... -
IV-I

» . - " 1 my
.- an: ».- - - ~ an .a.-.-2; II .a_
ﬁg; .-a , . .-.-.-.r ’J-12,}! 5

.2’;

Ir
 £235’-“"35
Ni ,

.-z
5’:

  
 

 

NOVEMBER 10, 1997

By Douglas Brown and Robin Seaton
Phi Food Critics

Welcome to ﬂavor country. Due
to popular demand, we are back
this week with a few more tips for
budget-conscious home cooking.
Beef, like chicken, can be a very
versatile meat. To many it seems
that there are two choices with
beef: hamburgers or steaks. But
on the contrary, there are many
more options with much less ex-
pensive cuts of meat. Both of our
parents have beef cattle, so we are
‘forced’ to eat our ‘friends’ on a
regular basis.

Safe cooking pre-

cautions: any
ground meat
needs to be

cooked completely
through, well done.
Steaks and other large
cuts only need to be
cooked to the point of
browning the outside, me-
dium rare. Doug usually finds
more flavor when his steaks are
prepared medium rare, but Robin,
having issues with pinkness and
blood in her meals, likes every-
thing browned thoroughly. Any
surface that comes in contact with
the raw meat, e.g. plates, counter-
tops, knifes, your hands, should
be washed well before coming into
contact with your vegetables, etc.
People really do get sick from this
stuff; play it safe.

Picking the meat: we have gen-
erally found that in Lexington, Har-
ris Teeter has the best beef. You’ll
want to grab some of those veg-
etable baggies to put your meat in,
lest it bleed all over your other gro-
ceries. Meat that is well marbled,
with streaks of fat running through-
out its pink or red surface, will al-
ways have more ﬂavor. The fat, al-
though _unhealthy, is where most of
the ﬂavor resides. Beware of meats
that have started to turn brown in
the store; old-fashioned people like
to consider these meats ‘aged,’ but
in reality they have just started to
go bad and will probably taste like
it. Here are some low-cost meals for
lovers of red meat:

Beef stew frequently serves sev-
eral people, or one person on mul-
tiple occasions. Choose approxi-
mately one pound of chuck, and cut
the meat into small pieces, approxi-
mately one-inch cubes. Fill a large

» Ziploc bag with ﬂour and add the

meat to it; shake the bag well to en-
sure that all surfaces are covered.
Remove the meat and place it into a
large non-stick pot. Saute the meat
in vegetable oil until it is well-
browned. Remove the meat from the
pot and spread it out to drain on
paper towels. Saute onions, if de-

   
    
  

sired, in the aforementioned pot
with vegetable oil, and then drain
off the fat and grease into a safe
container. Don’t pour it down the
drain! Return the cooked meat to
the pot, and add two cups of beef
broth and enough water to cover
the meat and onions. Allow the
contents to simmer for one to two
hours before adding slices or
small pieces of carrots, potatoes,
and any other desired vegetables.
Allow this to simmer for an addi-
tional ﬁfteen to thirty minutes, and
add seasonings such as onion
powder, garlic powder, salt
and pepper if you
wish. If you prefer a
thicker gravy-like
consistency, mix ‘a
. tablespoon of ﬂour or
cornstarch with a
tablespoon of water in
a separate container
until no lumps remain,
and then add this mix-
ture to the pot of stew.
If you add thickener, increase the

heat and continue cooking until
the stew sauce thickens as de-
sired. Your stew is ready to eat.

Chicken-fried steak is one of
Doug’s favorites, particularly
when he has gravy, potatoes, corn
and no green vegetables on his
plate. Preparation of chicken-fried
steak is very similar to that offried
chicken. Cube steak and round
steak are good cuts to use, but
any small ﬂat cut of meat will suf-
fice. Mix flour with salt, pepper
and any other desired seasonings
in a Ziploc bag. Add meat one
piece at a time and shake the bag
to coat thoroughly. Then fry the
steak in vegetable oil in a skillet,
and drain the cooked meat on pa-
per towels to reduce excess
grease. This recipe offers a quick,
inexpensive option for those who
enjoy fried foods.

Doug also has a special recipe
for very ﬂavorful hamburgers. We
often eat them sans bread, as ham-
burger steaks, in order to enjoy
the rich ﬂavor without ketchup,
mustard, or other toppings. Mix
ground beef with salt, pepper, on-
ion powder, garlic powder, and a

. steak sauce such as Dale’s or A-1

before making the individual pat-
ties. If you experience difficulty
in obtaining cohesive patties, you
may wish to add a raw eggpr piece
of white bread to the mixture so
the meat will hold together. Ham-
burger patties are excellent grilled,
fried orvbroiled; to ensure that the
meat is thoroughly cooked, press
on the patty with a spatula. If the
juices run clear, the meat is done,
but a pinkish color in the juices
indicates raw meat at the center of
the patty.

Wanted !!!!

Individuals, Student
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
Spring Break Travel Packages

Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
,T Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS

E

 

ﬁx.

THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGS THAT WE CAN
REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP US ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT‘
: ENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE
HE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER THE PAST 30 YEAR
" I ROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
RS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT'S ALL-NEW...WITH V
ORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
LUMINUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
IT'S MORE ECONOMICAL...UP TO 38 MILES PER
GALLON HIGHWAY. COROLLA IS SAFER AND
QUIETER. AND BEST OF ALL. IT STARTS
AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST

TOYOTA j

YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS
’ MONEY. WHAT A I
REFRESHING
c H A N G E 1

   
  
 
  

  
     
   
 
      
   
   
     

iv

2.

 

_.....,._/e ..-cg:-P‘

 

