. -ix

Will Hardie is trying Very
hard to get clean, but it’s tOO

    

Men’s basketball
scores third place in

Your house is a very very
fine house._..
But are you ppymg too

D -— much. the St. Louis much work because someone
—-I ind out — ?heck out -the tournement. keeps taking his detergent.
ca Rmg- tum Plus rent survey.

’ PAGE 3 PAGE 4 PAGE 6

«   ~ 4' 4' :;i.:.::.
‘ Penlfiiilgo. 7
- I Lexington. Va.
x Washington and Lee University ’ M0"d3Y
DECEMBER 8, 1997

   

 

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 9

. Sophomore
injured in

‘hoﬁday

“accident

BY COURTNEY MILLER AND SYBIL PRINCE
——-——:-——j EXECUTIVE EDITOR AND STAFF WRITER

Q9 Track team co-captain, Jill Kosch,
will be out for at least the first
three months of the season
because her neck was broken in a
car crash.

A Washington and Lee sophomore sustained serious in-
juries, including a broken neck and a ruptured spleen in a
car accident Friday, Nov. 21. Jill Kosch is co-captain of the
track team; her injuries may sideline her for the
entire season.

Kosch is part of the university’s record holding team for
A the 100-meter and 400-meter relays. She is recovering at
her home in Columbus, Neb., and expects to return in time
for Winter Tenn.

Junior Chris Zarek was driving Alfred Dom inek, junior,
and Kosch to National Airport in Washington, D.C., when
the accident occurred. Zarek’s Saturn slammed into the back
, of another car.

i Neither Zarek or Dominek were available to comment.
‘ “It was very scary. At that time I didn’t know what my

,, injuries were and I was pretty frightened,” said Kosch.

Kosch was initially taken to the Shenandoah County Hospi-
tal in Woodstock, Va. The attending physician determined. her
injuries were more serious than the hospital could handle and
transfened her to the University of Virginia Medical Center.

3 Zarek called Kosch’s family and informed them of the acci-
dent. Her parents ﬂew to Washington, D.C., and then drove to
Charlottesville. They arrived late Saturday attemoon.

The doctors determined that Kosch had fractured two verte-
brae in her neck and several ribs and had ruptured her spleen.

‘ At UVa., Kosch was shuffled back and forth between

departments. She said she spent six hours getting CAT scans

and X-rays to detennine the extent of her injuries. At first
doctors feared Kosch might be paralyzed. Further tests re-
vealed that her vertebrae had not severed any nerves in her
spinal column and that her spleen would heal on its own.

She remained in the hospital for the next six days and was re-

leased on Thanksgiving day.

“Jill was in such great physical condition,” said John Tucker,
1 I(osch’s track coach. “The doctors said it aided her condition.”

Kosch stayed in Charlottesville for follow-up treatments
through the weekend and returned to Nebraska on Monday.
Tucker said that Kosch will be missed as a team leader and one
of the strongest sprinters.

“J ill’s participation is drastically curtailed. She won’t even
be able to start jogging until spring break,” he said. “But

, University plans garage, arts center

 

creative decorating of the fraternity houses. Although the KA ’s once again proved no one
in the house can see in color and the Phi Delts found tinsel in every color, some houses

. like Beta Theta Pi (pictured above) managed to look somewhat festive as well as beautiful.
Ho1.1.1sr1;R HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

LEXINGTON’s JINGLE BEILS JROCKED 

this weekend during Christmas weekend, a long -standing W&L
tradition. This was the last chance most students had to let lose before
the onset of ﬁnals. W&L was thrust into the Christmas spirit by the

even if she’s not out on the track she will be participating 
helping me make decisions as all my captains do.”

The track team began practicing in mid-November and their
first meet is in January. Kosch will be in a neck brace for the
next three months.

“Hopefully I’ll catch the tail end of the season. It’s kind of a
bummer I have to miss the first couple of months,” Kosch said.

Since Kosch will not be able to retum for finals, her profes-
sois are sending them to her. She will be able to take them in
Nebraska.

“Everyone has been really helpful and understanding,”
Kosch said.

Series of thefts continue:

Looters take
advantage of
empty Gaines
Hall during break

 

IO

 

Jll Elizabeth Kosch ‘00

BY HEATHER MCDONALD
——————-—-—— STAFF WRITER
Washington and Lee may ‘end up
with a major face-lift if all fares well
for the Master Plan.
7 The plan includes sorority housing,
a parking garage, a university com-
mons and a music and arts center.
There are also plans to improve the
outdoor athletic facilities and to
reconﬁgure the Lee Chapel Memorial
Gates, located at the very front of the
campus.

“The construction will introduce
problems, but they can be solved,”
said Frank Parsons, Coordinator of
Facilities Planning. The construction
will cause parking shortages, Parsons
said. “We hope that after that period,
temporary inconvenience will be re-
placed by conditions better than be-
fore,” Parsons said.

Parsons cites the sorority houses as
a high priority.

“We have started the process of

Greeks

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
-—--m-—— NEWS EDITOR

’Tis the season for skiing in Vail. ’Tis
the season for window shopping in New
York. ’Tis the season for gathering around

a table for a big Christmas dinner. _Al- .

though the lives of Washington and Lee
students are opulent compared to those
of some in the surrounding area, some
are making sure that it is the season for
everyone, including the poor.

Pi Beta Phi runs an “angel tree” for its

approval with the city immediately so
by the time we receive ﬁnal approval
we will have selected an architect for
the sorority [housing] project,” he
said.

If all goes well, the university and
the city of Lexington should be pro-
ceeding to review site plans by early
summer. The proposed location for
sorority housing is off the ravine be-
hind the upper tennis courts, near the
stadium. The houses will extend to
Nelson Street. Five houses will be
built and room is being reserved for a
sixth house.

The university commons will be
built behind the Williams School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics
extending below ground level off the
ravine. It will replace most of the
parking spaces behind the Graham-
Lees and Reid Hall. The administra-
tion is working with consulting ﬁrm
Litsky, Craig and Associates, in or-
der to analyze space and feasibility

give time, energy

Christmas philanthropy. In coordination
with the Salvation Army and Wal-Mart,
Pi Phi set up a Christmas tree, omamented
with the ages and sizes of children be-
tween ages four and 12, outside the Co-
op. People can take the ornaments and
buy a present for thechild described.
“The angel tree provides the under-
privileged children with a better Christ-
mas,” Pi Phi President Becca Bagdonas
said. “Their parents can’t really buy

needs of the university commons.

While it is uncertain what will be
in the university commons, the possi-
bilities are exciting.

Ideas include a ﬁtness center, a
student postal facility, multipurpose
rooms for activities offices for the
Dean of Students and University se-
curity. The GHQ, the Co-op and the
bookstore will also be relocated. The
multi-level parking garage will be lo-
cated behind the Warner Center. How-
ever, freshman parking will not be
relocated. The University Commons
and other proposed buildings will
most likely be built in the style ofthe
Science Center and Leybum Library.

The Board of Trustees, the Lex-
ington City Planning Committee and
the City Council must approve the
Master Plan. Both the Planning Com-
mittee and the City Council require
separate public hearings in order to
approve the plans for construction of
new buildings. On Nov. 19, President

to

them much, so it’s really wonderful that
they can get something nice from a stu-
dent who cares. We have so much and
it’s only right to give back to the com-
munity.” J

The Pi Phis will be outside the Co-
op all day Monday and Tuesday.

Junior Sigma Nus Patrick
McCormack and Jet? Hayden volunteer
at the Rockbridge Area Relief
Agency (RARA).

John Elrod gave an informal presen-
tation on prominent aspects of the
Master Plan to the Planning Commit-
tee, City Council and city and univer-
sity administrators. The specifics of
the Master Plan are not being released
to the public yet, due to any changes
which may occur before the Board of
Trustees is scheduled to approve it on
Feb. 13. The plan is expected to pass
at all levels, Parsons said.

“We will always find a way to
agree,” Parsons said. “There is always
a risk, a sticking point, but we’ve al-
ways found a way to agree in the
past,” he said.

Other plans include a music and
ﬁne arts center to be built at the end
of the Warner Center, near the Lenfest
Center.

While unsure of what will be placed
in Dupont Hall if the departments are
moved, Parsons said, [The new music and
arts center] will be more pleasant than the
monolithic wall found at that end!”

needy

McCormack and Hayden prepare
packages of food for families to pick
up. Area churches, Harris Teeter and
Evans Dining donate the food and
RARA puts the packages together for
speciﬁc families.

Anyone interested in volunteer pro-
grams can contact Professor Beckley,
who has infonnation about many op-
portunities to help the underprivileged
in Rockbridge County.

BY WILL HARDIE

 

COPY EDITOR

A gang of looters took advantage
of the Thanksgiving break to riﬂe
through vacated Gaines rooms, tell-
ing students they encountered that
they were “looking for John.”

Around 4:40 p.m. on Tuesday,
Nov. 25, a black man wearing a hat
walked into a female student’s Gaines
suite. He said he was looking for his
cousin John. When the student asked
him for John’s telephone number, the
man changed the subject, and asked
several times whether she was stay-
ing there alone, and whether she
would be leaving soon for the break.

“I didn’ttell him exactly when,just
in case,” she said. “I wasn’t scared
because he didn’t seem violent. There
are always people around Gaines who
aren’t students.”

Soon afterwards, a man answering
to the same description walked into
the Gaines suite oflapanese exchange
student Naoko Nakane. He asked her
whether she knew “John,” and
whether this was Lewis Hall.

“I know several Johns but I didn’t
understand what he wanted, so I said,
no,” said Nakane. “I was so scared.”

Before long, the John-seeker
struck again. “This guy opened my
door unbidden and stuck his head
in,” said sophomore Lance. Clack.
“He made up some question tojus-
tify his presence  he asked for

John. He obviously wasn’t a stu-
dent.” Clack called security, then

checked that the other doors on his
corridor were locked.

Security officers Scott “wild
Irishman” Rowe and Tony “Italian
stallion” Prince rushed to Gaines.
Just as they arrived, a suspect
walked out of the building and
straight into their arms. A minute
later another man stepped out, car-
rying a Toshiba laptop computer, a
Nikon camera and a Jurassic Park
video. The officers ordered him to
stop, but he ran away. Prince
chased him across Nelson Street and
up to the Lenfest Center, where the
man dropped his loot and escaped.

The stolen items belonged to
Courtney Yevich. The tape and the
computer screen were smashed, but
no information was lost from the
computer’s hard drive.

“I had heard all the stories about
robberies but I didn’t think it would
happen to me,” she said.

The police arrived and picked up
17-year-old Eugene Jordan. He
named his three accomplices. Police
arranged a photo line-up, from
which Clack picked out his room.
Police arrested Jason Alstock at his
home later that evening.

Gaines has been at the epicenter
of the recent campus crime
expolosion. On Nov. 17, local Brian
Armentrout was spotted peering
through Gaines windows. Security
and police officers chased and
caught him, and found a 9mm au-
tomatic pistol in his car.

 

  

PAGE 2

IICW S

DECEMBER 8, 1997

 Weeks Weather:

Tuesda Wednesday

       

Thursday

       

 

Ice I Snow showers Showers Cloudy Cloudy Pt. Cloudy
High: 36° High: 45° High: 44,, High: 50, High: 46° High: 45, CHAMBER SINGERS PRESENT SERVICE
LOW: 32° LOWI 35° I-ow: 35°. I-ow: 32° LOW: 36° LOW! 32° Washington and Lee’s University’s annual Christmas Candlelight Service will be held
Thursday, Dec. 1 1, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The public is invited to attend.
O0l1IT5Y Of The Nationﬂi Wﬁﬂlﬁ SGIVICE The Service of Nine Lessons and Carols is an ancient form of corporate worship during
the Christmas season. The service, which is broadcast each year from King’s College,
Cambridge, tells the story of sacred history from Creation to the Incarnation. The prayers,
lessons andhymns are used widely both in England and in the United States.
Wanted l!!! Individuals, Student T '1 e Music for the traditional service will be provided by the University Chamber Singers,

Organizations and Small Groups to Promote:
Spring Break Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS ﬁg

CO-ED RESIDENTIAL SUMMER CAMP
needs male and female cabin conselors,
Adventure Counselors, Instructors
(Swimming, Horse, Canoe, Ropes),
Health Coordinators and Area Directors.
Located Near Greensboro, NC.

For more information call Netta at
(910) 349-9445 or
e-mail mel/iott@amarog.ces.ncsu.edu

AMUSIC INDUSTRY OPPORTUNITY

Breaking Records (Atlantic) is
seeking 1998 College Reps.
Unpaid, great beneﬁts.

by 5 p.m.

Zting-Izmz ﬂit‘
is looking for a new

Business
Manager.

Submit a resume

and cover letter to

the  mailbox

inthe University Center

January 9.

Jr. will preside over the service.

Big Brother/Big Sister program.

GET INTO THE HOLIDAY SPIRIT; ATTEND HOLI-
DAY CONCERT TUESDAY LENF EST CENTER

The annual W&L Holiday Concert will be held on Tues., Dec. 9, at 7 p.m. in the Lenfest
Center. The concert will feature the University Chorus and the University Wind Ensemble.

Under the direction of Barry Kolman, the chorus and wind ensemble will present Terry
Vosbein’s Winter Symphony. The program will also include popular carols and festive

‘ holiday music.
Vosbein is a composer and an assistant professor of music at W&L.
The concert is free and open to the public. But due to the popularity of the concert,

tickets are required for admission. Call the Lenfest Center Box Ofﬁce, 463-8000, for ticket
information.

APPLICATIONS FOR UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, OX-
FORD EXCHANGE PROGRAM NOW AVAILABLE

Rising juniors who are interested in the Washington and Lee University, University
College, Oxford program for the l998-1999 academic year, now is the time to apply!
Contact Carl P. Kaiser from the Williams School of Commerce, room 313, 463-8617. For

more of a personal account, contact this year’s exchange student from Oxford, Will Hardie
at hardiew@wlu.edu.

-Compiled by Kathryn Mayumik

conducted by W&L professor of music Gordon Spice. The Chamber Singers are upper-
classmen chosen by audition after at least one year of experience in the University Chorus.
Professor of music Timothy Gaylard will play the organ for the service. Readers will be
chosen from the university community. Acting University Chaplain Thomas Litzenburg

The service is sponsored by the University Federation, a nondenominational student
group that sponsors religious and community activities including the Rockbridge Country

can Mr. Wilkins (303) 779-3803

 

fa/raay 3- §é///

76 .  a/5!
Zea;/Eytv/9 Z/9%/Er/a

WRANGLER
FLY FISHING GUIDE

***>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<

PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH IS SEEKING
COLLEGE STUDENTS TO WORK FOR THE
SUMMER OF 1998 AS WRANGLERS AT OUR

CORRALS OR AS FLY FISHING GUIDES UPON OUR
SMITH RIVER. MUST HAVE GOOD EXPERIENCE IN
EITHER FIELD AND MUST BE WELL ABOVE
AVERAGE IN PEOPLE SKILLS. SPECIAL
CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO
GRADUATING SENIORS.

PLEASE CONTACT AMY HITLIN OF THE
CAREER DEVELOPIVIENT OFFICE IN
MATTINGLY HOUSE FOR INFORMATION,
INSTRUCTIONS, AN APPLICATION, AND
AN INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT-

PLEASE ALSO WRITE TO ELK CANYON RANCH,
1 1 5 1 SMITH RIVER ROAD, WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS,
MONTANA, 59645 FOR SPECIAL INFORMATION ABOUT
THESE TWO POSITIONS.

16 DAYS ’TIL CHRISTMAS

LEXINHLUN

(gel/[iv .(/I’l)(I:\'/I'l‘I(/ (ii;

COME SEE OUR SELECTION OF on-‘r BOXES AND BASKETS
WEEKDAYS 7:30 - 5:30 - SATURDAY 3:00 - 5:00 - SUNDAY 9:00 - 4:00
9 w. WASHINGTON sr. - 464-6586

DECEMBER 8, 1997

  

 

PAGE 5

What students pay for rent

sion to live at 306 McLaughlin Street next year.

Country houses cost a bit more, but students
find that the perks of country life justify the extra
cost.

“This is our one opportunity to live in the coun-
try,” said Chris Forrest, senior.

His house is surrounded by 100 acres of land
and features two—story ceilings and a fireplace.

The minimum and maximum rent prices found by
the survey show that students can rent a country
house for between $175 per month and $312.50 per
month. The average monthly rate is $245.

Jonathan Gorab, senior, cites “the house itself”
as the primary factor in choosing to live at Low Dell,

and on-campus housing looks pretty good.

Archer and her roommates will live off—campus for
the ﬁrst time next year — their senior years. They chose
to stay in Woods Creek Apartments this year to avoid
the need to buy furniture and the expense of summer
rent. She was “thrilled” to learn that the rent for her
apartment next years is lower-than-average.

The graph below illustrates the distribution of
off—campus student rent prices in town and in the
country. The frequency of sample values in each
price interval is shown.

—— Gary Justice,’00, and Kirk Garrett,’00, contributed
to this article.

Ho1.1./sn;R Hoi'15Y/PHo7o EDITOR

CD As the new year approaches, the
scramble for off—campus housing heats
up. The Phi gives you the skinny on
average student rent prices.

BY LIZ DEHER
W&lii~'E Eorron

In the whirl of parties and panic that concludes the
fall term at Washington and Lee, sophomores and jun-
iors have yet another stress on their minds — choosing
their abodes for the next school year.

The decision to stay on campus or to venture into
the grown-up world of landlords, monthly rent checks
and utility bills involves a variety of factors. Of utmost
importance are rent prices and location.

To help students see how their prospective rent
stacks up against the competition, The Phi acquired
the results of a Management 201 statistics project that
estimated the average rents of off—campus housing.

Lee museum

will lose its most
valued treasure

(D After over two decades of caring for Robert E.
Lee’s artifacts, Capt. Robert Peniston will retire at the

end of this academic year.

BY ERICA PROESER
. STAFF \X/Rriiaz

THE BORDELLO in the Red Light District is just one of many oﬂicampus, in-town rentals available to students.

and Westmoreland was being dogged
by people who made mischief.

A random sample of W&L juniors and seniors
living off—campus asked students their monthly rent
excluding utilities and whether they would charac-
terize their residences as “town” or “country.” The
results revealed that the average student rent is
$226.68 per month.

The survey found that the average town dweller
pays less than the overall mean rent, at $217 .76 per
month. Country houses generally have more amenities,
driving up the cost of rent. The cheapest apartment in
the town sample costs $100 per month; the most luxuri-
ous goes for $350 per month.

This is good news to Robert Sein, a senior who has
lived above the bakery at 8 North Main Street for the
past two years.

“Looks like I’m getting a deal,” said Sein, who pays
less than the mean rent for his apartment.

Many students also choose to live in town be-
cause of its proximity to campus. Kendra Archer,
junior, mentioned the need to be within walking dis-
tance of the Hill as a motivating factor in her deci-

 

When the new Lee Chapel mu-
seum is finished, it will have a new care-
taker to go with it.

Capt. Robert Peniston will retire
in June 1998, after over 20 years in the
job. “it’s in the best interests of the
University,” he said. He said that he
won’t be around much longer, and the
new museum would beneﬁt from a new
caretaker. The decision to leave the
job behind was entirely his.

Peniston spent 30
years on active duty in

“After he gave the lecture, he
opened the ﬂoor to questions. A ca-
det raised his hand, but he let the [mis-
chief makers] have the first question,”
Peniston recalled. “They asked, ‘What
about homosexuals in the military?’
And he answered, ‘I don’t know any-
thing about that.”’

The general’s answer roused a
big roar of an ovation. The people
who asked the question left quickly
after that response, and
Peniston called the ova-

the Navy (and three
years before that at the
Naval Academy) before ,
retiring and taking the

W&L job. He has be— 

tion “the loudest I have

  ever heard.”

One of the most
moving events that
Peniston remembers was

come a popular person-
ality on campus over the
years. Professor Gordon
Spice of the music department made a
Parents’ Weekend concert tribute to
Peniston on Oct. 31. The concert took
place at Lee Chapel, and Peniston said
that he felt humbled and honored by
the performance.

Peniston had a few stories to tell
about things he has seen over the
years in Lee Chapel. He remembers one
occasion in January 1980 when Gen-
eral Westmoreland spoke at the chapel,

 

LEE CHAPEL. .

the dedication on May 9,
1986 of the plaque hon-
oring the Medal of
Honor winner from W&L.

It was an impressive ceremony,
Peniston said. The winner’s com-
manding oﬁicer came to speak, and the
chapel was full of moist eyes.

Now, the retired ofﬁcer is leaving
the chapel to someone else’s care. He
said that the museum, the reason for
his retirement, will be state of the art.

people say, ‘Why

a country house with a pool
and lots of land. Rent was

also a consideration for him-
self and his four roommates.

Gorab and his roommates

drive to campus each day. All
five of them have cars, obvi-
ating the need to live within
walking distance of school. '
L “We had to negotiate
with the landlord for the
price,” said Gorab, whose rent
is close to the mean.

Some students opt to
spend theirjunior and senior
years in University housing.
Gaines Hall, Woods Creek
Apartments, the Old Delt
House, the International
House, the Chavis House and
the Outing Clubhouse are at-
tractive options for students
who like Dean Manning as a
landlord.

On-campus housing
ranged in price from $1, 760 to
$2, 660 per year, according to
the 1996-1997 University Cata-
logue. This works out to from
$195.55 per month to $295.55
per month. Factor in the extra
costs of summer rent and utili-
ties for an off-campus address,

-.00-I11

16

14

12

10

Rent Prices: Town v. Country

100-150 151-200 201-250

Pn'ca intervals
1: Town

251-300 301-350

I country

PENISTON will retire at the end of this academic year He has been the Lee
Chapel caretaker for over two decades. Ho1_L1s'rER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

one for its time.”

He said that the museum, which
will cost about $1 .5-2 million, should
be completed by May 1998.

Peniston
will not be

“A lot of
C6

are you changing
[the chapel]?’” he
said. The answer
is that the chapel
will finally be up to
modern museum
standards. The ex-
hibits will not
change much, but
the displays,

 [Peniston] is as much a
part of the school as
General Washington and
General Lee...

—— Dr. J Davis F utch

leaving the
area when he
leaves his job,
though. His
family has had
ties to Lexing-
ton for years.
His son at-
tended W&L,

cases, lighting, cli-

mate control and security systems will

all be top-of-the-line. The construction

also includes the installation of a handi-

capped access ramp from the Corral.
“The old museum was built in 1962

or ’63,” he said. “It was A-number

7 but he died

shortly before
graduating. Peniston’s daughter mar-
ried a W&L graduate, and Peniston
and his wife have been comfortable
in the area since his retirement from
the military. Besides, many members
of the W&L community, like Dr. J.

Davis Futch of the history depart-
ment, see him as an important part of
the W&L community.

“Dr. Futch was my son’s favorite
professor,” Peniston said. “The ﬁrst
letter we received after my son’s death
was from Dr. Futch. We’ve become
good friends.” Peniston stops by
Futch’s office several afternoons a
week to chat with him.

Peniston’s replacement may be a
scholar and an expert in the museum’s
artifacts, but he or she will never be
Peniston. The retired Navy captain
contributed much to the personality
ofW&L, and he will be sorely missed
on the Hill.

Futch has wami feelings for the
caretaker: “For me, [Peniston] is as
much a part ofthe school as General
Washington and General Lee, and I
think he should have a statue on cam-
pus right beside Cyrus McCormick’s.”

 W

Lexington offers
unique gift ideas

BY GINGERPHIILIPS

Srm Wanna

]:[t’s stressful. lt’s confusing. No, it’s not ﬁnal exams. It’s Christmas
shopping. You’re probably wondering what in the world to buy for your
parents and friends. The answer to all your problems is right here in
town. Lexington may not be a booming metropolis, but it does offer a wide
variety of unique shops where you’re sure to ﬁnd great Christmas presents
for everyone on your list.

The best shops for mom are The Victorian Parlour and Virginia Born
and Bred. The Victorian Parlour, 13 S. Main St., is the place to shop for
the mom who likes elegant and decorative items for her house. There
you can ﬁnd beautiful porcelain and crystal items such as cups, plates,
and jars. Lace, jewelry, fragrances and other toiletry items can be pur-
chased at the Parlour.

Virginia Born and Bred, 16 W. Washington St., sells many attractive
objects with local themes such as Lexington boxes, tobaccojars, and pottery,
and W&L glasses and ornaments. Many of these items can be engraved
with a message or the W&L Trident.

Owner Julie Lindsey says, “Food
baskets and cookbooks are extremely .
popular gifts. You can buy a premade
basket or you can design your own.” Bas-
kets can be ﬁlled with anything from cof-
fee and cookies to jams and Virginia
wines.

Since those food baskets can also
be great gifts for dad, another shop to
visit is The Shenandoah Attic, 23 S. Main
St. The Attic also offers some great gour-
met food items and wines. You can buy
coffee mugs, wind chimes, lamps and
wooden objects. Another store for dad is
Alvin-Dennis, at 102 W. Washington St.,
where you can buy neat ties and other
men’s clothing.

For friends or siblings, Sunday’s
Child, 16 N. Main St, has tons of cute and
unusual gifts, such as stationary, calendars, ﬁgurines, books and jewelry.
This is deﬁnitely the place to go for kids’ presents, like stuffed animals and
those little virtual reality pets. Crossroads and Night Owl Music are also
great places to buy CD5 and tapes for your friends.

Artists in Cahoots, 1 W. Washington St., is a truly unique store with»
gifts to ﬁt almost anyone’s taste. All of the items sold in this shop are created
by local artisans. You can buy beautiful paintings, etchings and photographs
of Lee Chapel, the Colonnade and Lexington. Owner and artist Maureen
Worth says, “it’s a great place for students to ﬁnd gifts for their parents, and
the parents usually want to come in themselves on Parents’ Weekend.” You
can also ﬁnd sculptures, jewelry and glass objects like vases, ornaments,
paperweights and bottles.

So you don’t have to go very far to ﬁnd great Christmas presents that
everyone will love. Turn your stress over ﬁnals into a little fun with a shop-
ping excursion to downtown Lexington. If you still don’t have the time,just
visit the University Bookstore, where you can find a huge selection of books,
cards and W&L gift items. The Bookstore’s Christmas sale is on Wednes-
day, Dec. 10, so don’t miss it. Happy shopping!

 

ROBERT E. LEE
NUTCRACKERS make unique
Christmas gifts from Lexington.
1'/()[.LIS77:‘R H()l’l5Y/PHOYO EDITOR

 

PAGE 4

REsuL'rs

Men’sBa_sketball (3-3)
Wed.: W&L 44
Hampden Sydney 42

Lopata Classic at Washington
University, St Louis, Missouri
Fri.: W&L 56
Washington U. 81
Sat.: W&L 55
- Occidental 46
Women’s Basketball (3-1)
Thurs.: W&L 62
RMWC 51
Men’s Swimming (1-3)
Sat.: W&L 89
VMI 110

'Women’s Swimming (3-2)-

Tues.: W&L 91
RMWC 29
W&L 85
Sweet Briar 36

AHEAD

Men’s Basketball
Tues.: home VS. Emory
& Hemy at 7:30pm

Women’s Basketball
Mon.: at Bridgewater

Women’s Swimming
Wed.: home vs.
Marymount at 6pm

Men’s Swimming
Wed.: home vs.
Marymount at 6pm

sports

Men’s basketball captures

third place at Lopata Classic

tournament in St. Louis

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
j"""'_-"'_'j-‘ STAFF \X/RITE!

the men’s basketball team as the

Generals went 2-1 last week. On
Wednesday night the Generals pulled
off a monstrous victory as they
downed Hampden-Sydney 44-42 and
snapped a 15-game losing streak
against the Tigers. The Generals then
traveled to St. Louis to play in the
Lopata Classic where they got a rude
awakening against a strong Washing-
ton University team. They lost 81-56
after falling behind 27-2 in the ﬁrst
half. But the roll coaster ride contin-
ued as the Generals went out the next
night and downed Occidental College
of California 55-46 in the consolation
game of the Lopota Classic. The Gen-
erals ﬁnished the week at 3-3 overall
and 1-1 in the ODAC.

The Generals pulled off a huge
upset Wednesday night as they
downed Hampden-Sydney College
44-42. In what was most likely the
biggest win for the program under
third year coach Kevin Moore, the
Generals used a Princeton-like strat-
egy of ball control and back-door
passes to pull off the improbable
conquest.

Senior forward Kelly Dyer led
the way for the Generals as he
scored 21 points and hit four three-
pointers. Dyer tied the game on a
free throw with 45 seconds to go
and the Generals took the lead for
good after Scott Hudson hit a free
throw with 12 seconds left. Trail-
ing 43-42, Hampden-Sydney had
one last shot but came up short on a
jumper in the lane and the Generals
added a free-throw to make the fi-
nal score 44-42.

Hampden-Sydney came into the
game with a 3-0 record and had av-
eraged 98.7 points per game, but
"W&L held the Tigers to only 13
points in the first half en route to
the victory. This triumph snapped a

It was an up-and-down week for

 Jock Shorts

- 5 Generals named to GTE Academic football team -
7 Generals named to All-ODAC football team -
Women’s swimming marks two victories - Women’s
basketball claim victory -

For the eighth consecutive year, the
Generals had the most selections to the
GTE Academic All-District III foot-
ball team. The selections were senior
defensive linemen Jack Boyd and

Omar Moneiin, senior offensive line- 

man Stefan Neumeister, sophomore
offensive lineman John Sensing, and
sophomore wide receiver .l.T.
Malatesta. These five honorees have
the possibility of being named to the
All-American GTE Acedemic foot-
ball team to be named in the upcom-
ing weeks.
Seven members of the Generals
1997 football team have been named
to ODAC All-Conference team. Play-
ers named to the First Team All-
ODAC were junior offensive lineman
Marc Granger, sophomore kicker
Matt Holbrook, and senior defensive
end Jack Boyd. The four Generals
named to the Second Team All-
ODAC were junior tight-end David
Ritchey, senior defensive tackle Omar
Moneirn, senior linebacker Matt Luka,
and senior safety Ryan Fletemeyer.
The Generals extended their ODAC
dual meet winning streak to 30 consecu-
tive meets, by defeating Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College 91-29 and
Sweet Bria: 85-36 in a double dual meet
on Tuesday evening in the Cy
Twombly Pool. Senior co-captain Bligh
Wollner and junior Margaret Hoehl
were each triple winners for W&L.
Wollner won the 100 yard free
(1 :00.28), the 200 yard tree (2:09.52)
and the 500 yard free (5252.75); Hoehl
won the 200 yard butterfly (2:22.59),
the 200 yard backstroke (2:22.63) and
the 200 yard individual medley
(2223.16). Lauren McKeever also swam
well for the Generals, as she won the
100 yard breaststroke (1 : 15.2 1) and the
200 yard breaststroke (2250.44). The

Generals will host Maiymount next
Wednesday at 6:00p.m., and then will
be off until winter term.

The women’s basketball team im-
proved its record to 3-1, 1-1 ODAC
with a 62-Slconference victory’ over
Randolph Macon Women’s College on
Thursday in the Warner Center. They
were led by senior forward Tonia Dean,
who recorded her third double-double
of the season by scoring 13
points and grabbing 13 re-
bounds. She now has 552 re-
bounds over her career, which
breaks the previous career re-
bounding mark of 545 set by
Sandra Holmes, who played
from 1993 to1996.

In addition to Dean, three
other W&L starters recorded
double-digit points. Junior 
Chrissy Burghardt led all the '
Generals with 16 points, fresh-
man Missy Weathersby had 13
points, 6 rebounds, and a team-
high 7 assists, and junior Am-
ber Hinkle had 10 points. De-
spite their complete destruction,
Jennifer Baptist led RMWC
with 19 pointsand nine re-
bounds.

The game was close until the
nine-minute mark of the first
half, at which the Generals went
on a 19-6 run to break a 12-12
tie and finish the half. They
extended their 3 1-18 lead to 15
early in the second period, but
RMWC scored 12 straight un-
answered points to cut the lead
to only three points. W&L
weathered the stonn, however,
and ultimately claimed a nine
point victory.

— courtesy of staﬂ reports
and Sports Information Oﬂice

   c o

15 game losing streak against
Hampden-Sydney that dated back to
1990. The win moved the General’s
record to 1-1 in the ODAC and 2-2
overall, already matching last year’s
record.

The Generals traveled to St.
Louis following the big victory and
were in action on Friday night
against host Washington University
in the 14th Annual Lopata Classic.
Things did not go nearly as well for
the Generals on this night as Wash-
ington Uninversity jumped out to a
27-2 first half lead as the Generals
went scoreless for over 14 minutes.
The Generals were never able to
recover from the deficit and went
on to lose the game 81-56.

Kelly Dyer scored a bucket for
the Generals with 17:17 remaining
in the first half and the Generals did
not score again until freshman Eric
Owsley hit a pair of free throws with
3:26 remaining in the half.

After trailing 37-14 at the halfthe
Generals did make the score respect-
able as they played well in the second
half. Shooting guard Eric Owsley was
the leading scorer for the Generals as
he scored 17 points. Kelly Dyer and
Scott Hudson each added 8 for the
Generals. The loss dropped the Gen-
erals to 2-3 overall.

The Generals rebounded well from
the tough loss and downed Occidental
College of California 55-46 in the con-
solation game on Saturday night. The
Generals led Occidental 25-18 at the
half and led by as many as 12 in the
second half before Occidental stormed
back behind the hot shooting of Eli
Engle and tied the game at 38. How-
ever, the Generals took the lead for
good on the next possession and went
on to defeat Occidental 55-46 and even
their record at 3-3.

Kelly Dyer led the Generals with
17 points, 10 of them in the final eight
minutes of the game. -T he Generals
out-rebounded the Tigers 43-25.
Dyer and sophomore center Scott
Hudson each grabbed 9 rebounds.
The Generals sealed the deal by go-
ing 5-7 from the charity stripe in the
ﬁnal minute ofthe game.

The Generals played all three
games without the services of sopho-

more Rich Peterson, last year’s
ODAC freshman of the year, who is

out with a broken finger. They hope
to have him back for the ﬁrst game
after the break.

The Generals will play their final
game before the break in the home-
opener against Emory & Henry Col-
lege on Tuesday at 7:30pm in the
Warner Center.

DECEMBER 8, 1997

THE
GRAND
FINALE...

In his ﬁnal race as
a Washington and Lee
General, senior cross
country captain and
ODAC Runner of the
Year Jason Callen
placed 137th in the
NCAA Division [11
Championship as the
sole member of this
year's team who quali-
fied. C01/R’l‘1:‘SY or
SPORTS IN]-‘ORMA no/v
01-‘I-‘I(‘Ii

Winter lntramurals are starting.
Publicize your results with the Phi.

e-mail: phi@wlu.edu
Everyone deserves to read
about your success.

ROLLA

THERE ARE A FEW sPECIAL THINGS THAT wE CAN

REALLY COUNT ON TO IIELPUsACCOMPLIsII ALLTHAT _
WENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE
THE TOYOTA COROLLA. OVER TIIE PAsT so YEARS.
COROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
CARS IN THE WORLD. AND NOW IT'S ALL-NEw...wITiI
MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
' ALUMINUM ENCINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL.
IT'S MORE ECONOMICAL...UP TO 38 MILEs PER
GALLON HIGHWAY. COROLLA 18 SAFER AND
OUIETER, AND BEST OFALL, IT STARTS
ATA PRICE LOWER THAN LAST
YEAR. MORE CAR...LEss
__ MONEY. WHAT A
”, REFRESHING
C H A N G E !

 

I

8

'riion
* rial

PAGEM5 J mo. 8, 1997

That dysfunctional
Jefferson server

Like so many of the students, faculty and
administration at W&L, the Ring-tum Phi relies
heavily on the Jefferson server to complete its
work every week.

At about 10:25 p.m. Sunday night, 25 min-
utes after the HelpDesk closed, Jefferson
decided to shut itself down again, extending its
stellar crash record for the past two weeks.

Another crash happened at almost the exact
same time one week ago.

The faculty at -this school take the “com-
puter” excuse for late work about as well as the
“my dog ate my homewor ”~ excuse. University
Computing employees routinely tell students
simply to use that story with professors.

What may be at the root of the problem are
the upgrades made to the server over the
Thanksgiving holiday. Was there really a
pressing need to change the server one week
before law school exams and two weeks before
undergraduate exams? Any time major changes
are made to a computer system, some instability
can be expected, so why risk that before such a
critical portion of the term?

University Computing should consider a
major overhaul of the Jefferson server over the
Christmas holiday. There are two weeks in
which to solve these problems, and if there are
still problems after the vacation, the ﬁrst few
weeks of a term are not critical working
weeks. Most students are not frantically
trying to ﬁnish 20-page papers during the first
week of school.

Among all of the lost papers and projects,
there are some lessons to be learned. If you are
using a public computer system, keep a copy of
your paper or project on disk, especially since
the Jefferson server is becoming more of a
liability than a resource.

If University Computing really wants to
make the campus more online, they need to
make sure that the equipment is working
correctly. They also need to be a little more in-
touch with the true need of the W&L commu-
nity: computers on which to ﬁnish their work
that are reliable.

,»5"(‘(HN'~'§‘.

“  A uote of the week:

at N

S}.

<«..,,.,«. .

I love shoes. They’re the only thing
that can’t make me look fat.

—Anonymous freshman girl

77

Ellie ‘tiling-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Hillary Coom bs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
w& life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
‘ Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Business Manager Rebecca C uny
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Douglas Brown
Asst. Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit sybmissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “My Views”
do not reﬂect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions ofthe
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540)462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

GENERATION Lax

UH/if SORDRNY RUSH IS...

,uHnr IT siioutv 9:...

Letters to The Rizng-tum Phi

EC Secretary responds to writer
in The Southern Collegian

In thearticle entitled “Notes from the EC Under-
ground” that Mr. Alex Christensen generously-com-
piled for me in the latest Southern Collegian, I dis-
covered that I am much more clever than I origi-
nally thought. According to Mr. Christensen’s
evaluation ofthe EC’s minutes this year, I have been
“ﬁnding a way to comment a little wryly on the go-
ings on (at the EC) without being too obvious.” The
truth is, however, I fall short of deserving Mr.

(C

I consider the position to i
which I have been entrusted a
delicate duty to be carried out

carefully and humbly.

77

Christensen’s compliments regarding my wit and
sardonic sense of humor.

The Southern Collegian claims that the article
is “by Taylor Schultz,” and “compiled by Alex
Christensen.” The Southern Collegian broadly, if
not incorrectly, employs the word “compiled.” The
EC minutes Mr. Christensen cites comprise less than
a third of the article, so I can scarcely claim or be
attributed authorship. Of course, I am certainly not
above parody. Indeed, I am ﬂattered that the South-
ern Collegian made me the subject thereof. But I
am disappointed to be associated with parody poorly
done. Mr. Christensen’s article is misleading and
irresponsible. He wrongly speculates that in an ef-
fort at self-expression I attempt to animate with sar-
casm what would otherwise be “dry” EC minutes.
Implicit in this is that I ridicule certain campus or-
ganizations and belittle certain EC business.

As evidence of my artistic license, Mr.
Christensen cites in his article excerpts from EC
minutes that I have composed this year concerning
Contact Committee plans, Fridays! Committee fund-
ing, and alcohol issues at W&L. I intended neither
the language nor the juxtaposition of these items to
be read humorously or sarcastically. Mr.
Christensen’s suggestion that I treat these matters
with disregard is misguided. I consider the posi-
tion to which I have been entrusted a delicate duty
to be carried out carefully and humbly. I can assure
Mr. Christensen that whatever humor I might har-
bor did not seek expression in these matters. .

On the other hand, I believe that blatantly trivial
matters, such as the plans for an EC social that Mr.

I Christensen also cites in his article, lend themselves

to comedic treatment. Thus, on the occasion that
such innocuous matters arise in a meeting, I treat
them accordingly in the minutes.

The EC, in addition to adjudicating the Honor
System, takes seriously its prescribed tasks includ-
ing the allocation of student funds and oversight of
student committee activities. For anyone truly in-
terested in the conduct of EC meetings, note that
we meet with open doors each Monday night at 7:30.
Yet open doors or not, I should warn that EC meet-
ings are much less lively and audacious than Mr.

 ‘ii.’
an -.~*~~... J- *1, 3
: l" (.---*i' ‘A M i-

:

Christensen portrays, and much more tedious and se-
rious-minded than he can know. '

Cordially,
Z. Taylor Shultz
EC Secretary

The Gadfly defends his purpose

I am writing this letter in response to an article that
appeared in the most recent edition of the Southern Col-
legian. In it there appeared an article which told of a
mysterious pamphlet released to various members of the
faculty written under the pseudonym “The Gadﬂy.” While
I recognize that the purpose of the Southern Collegian is
to “piss off W&L,” it is unfortunate that my article was
initially explained in this forum. The issues discussed
are of a serious nature and consequently are in need of
serious people to discuss them — not “Scruffy the Wea-
sel.” Consequently, I feel the need to explain myself.

First things first. W&L being what it is, I feel as though
I must dispel the author’s opinion of my identity as a
disgruntled independent male who can’t drink or garner
female attention. I am not an independent. The staff at
The Palms knows me by name. I have no shortage of
amorous affection. I repeat my belief that many of you
would be surprised by my identity...

My article was aimed at the faculty in the belief that
many of them were unaware of some of the activities tak-
ing place within the Washington & Lee University com-
munity. Acts that were once shameful in the Washington
& Lee community have become commonplace while the
administration and faculty turns a deaf ear. Because it is
the faculty that students look up to and regard with a
deep sense of esteem and veneration, it is the responsibil-
ity of the faculty to assume a position of moral leader-
ship. In short, to re-instill shame and redefine honor!
The central argument of my article was this: “that Wash-
ington & Lee has reached a defining moment in its his-
tory.” The principles that animate our actions, the vir-
tues that we intimately cherish, and the honor we once
observed are in question. Welno longer feel inspired by
the magnanimity of true honor, no longer possess the
desire to be one with something greater than ourselves.
We no longer reﬂect on the state of our souls or the de-
gree to which the ideal of honor should inﬂuence our
everyday actions. If we continue on our present path, Rob-
ert E. Lee’s moral project, meant to inspire and invigo-
rate our souls, will ultimately end in shameful failure.”

My article went on to explain the wide gulf that exists
in different areas of student life between our honorable
ideals and the state of Washington & Lee. My hope was
that the article would be contained to faculty members
because I was aware that my article could be made the
object of jest and failed attempts at journalistic humor.

I have employed anonymity because I wanted my
claims to be engaged on their own terms, not as the “preju-
diced” opinions of “XXXXXX.”. It is easy to discredit
ideas by attaching labels and attacking the author rather
than his/lier ideas. The editors of the Southern Colle-
gian seem to believe that anonymity is simply a mark of
cowardice, devoid of any purpose. However, what is lost
on them is that ideas are what matter. If used correctly,
they can be agents of action so as to return us to the ani-
mating principles that make Washington & Lee a truly
wonderful place. Indeed, many of the writers who fueled
our convictions of freedom and equality did so under the
protective guise of anonymity —— not because of cowardice,

“I went to the seediest bar in
Charlottesville to see four white
guys and a drunk, blind black man
without many teeth sing,”

those.”
— Hollister Hovey ’00
Phi Photo Editor

“You know those hats that you
put the beer on, and you suck the
drink through a huge straw? I
drank a margarita out of one of

— Kathryn Mayumik ’98

 
     

P to celebrate 
_ ,méxtey,;andi’,f6,
’ .2: ,t;t&3’§1tiC§ac,cs.lti=.ict:iii "
aiislduriag tltiﬁ see»-
me will write ‘pack. 5

V 9

6,4?

5
3

u
t
at
4
_u
'1
5
3
y.
4
5
s
4
l‘
I
4
5

-I

     
   
   
  
  
  
      
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
  

control pills lietore. In- ,
. ,’” ‘sureyosz’li.‘fod%nter~ ~
% e orormt Girl.’s<Gu;"dei tat: Azioa-exlaz and .

     

 

tihel?hish album you want; liot9{’e‘»1é:r,’ 
ézittreqilést ft/)1’/Pitch hen, lteli hen, a ;i
3it‘for,tlte'ol’ peace pipe. in-;‘l~. heir." It
I youeknow-what in Armrica 
eye to Amsterdam and then f.

,tio’:t,of your qiialiﬁeations 
undecided to pursue other ean~ 
” veatinot ﬁll every Christ» 
all otlr,positi<3as are st2x.i*t‘ed 
wisliyottitlxe best of loci: in all 
d  you for }’{':v‘v.i‘.  '

 

Santa Claus’ Sccretaify 1;

«onctjbecause you’ve been at

Iastivinte:-i°when youéiazedg
e1é3.:in..;§:oz:ci‘ete miss been {A

1rner,s‘.7. Yeah,  reacts:

ogaéinegftoe.

'..Si!i*=¢re1y,

7. .Santa .Claus

t1 /Students Union,
" tnyliaissioii to  .=»:l1:'
veiiiment \vell’ai‘e 5
A ioévery house in tiir: world
” eat program is that effi-

  

but because they understood that ideas :.in: ll:.c ‘.-Y ’\
personal power that can compel l‘CllL‘C’s.l()l‘. zmd  ..lE_lt‘.

I have enclosed with this letter a cop) :7-ll my article
should the newspaper find it newsworthy to p1'ln‘.. l lizu 2
no doubt that if it were to be printetl. it martial ~:\ okc the
passions ofthe Washington & Lee comm unity. Witli this
in mind, I invite every one of you to ask :.in}.’ one oftlic
deans for a copy.

Do not ask yourself who I am! Ask )(>l‘2'.\L‘i1iiilvllzll I
am saying is true! If what I say is wrong. tlicn the Illin-
of truth is on your side and all that is iicctled in‘) smit inc
away is to understand on a personal leyel i10\\.' 2;m;l xx li_\ l
have been incorrect in my assessment of iiormr at 'W&l..
My intent is not to instigate an editorial war or propagzitc
another campus debate in the spirit of /\le.x: C lnisieiiser:
and Glenn Miller.‘ lfthe W&L toinniuniiy <‘£ll‘.liU{ 1.23».
seriously my claims because ofaiionx inn}. l ‘»\!illli1IVl‘;li-'
reveal myself at the time.

llll Li/‘\l.?l‘l.V.'l

 ’ What did you do over Christmas Weekend?

 

as

up

Phi News Editor

“I watched my house get
trashed and then decided with my
roommates that sleep was more
important than cleaning the place

 

"kio1in\ lz'.iir~;.,i‘. ';..-..l ' .
on the next t«.l1;imi oft.‘-,\ i'i;:i‘ior
niaiiifestn."

"rim;-‘«'.*.1i

( i.i*~\ 1

— Jason Zacher ’98
Phi Executive Editor

 

 

PAGE 6

I aliilol Humor, ®pini0n,li,eviews

Laundromat bandits:

Who’s been deflowering my detergent?

By Will Hardie

Copy Editor

Every week as I heave my sack of socks into the Woods
Creek West laundry, 1 notice something amiss. I ﬁnd I
possess just a little less Harris Teeter President’s Choice
Extra White Ultra Laundry Detergent than I left last week.
The lid of my box has been left open a crack. The little
plastic scoop hasn‘t been put back quite the right way.

My little white box is sitting slightly askew on top of
its Pepsi machine. It guiltily refuses to make eye con-
tact; assaulted, violated, raped. Deep in the concrete
bowels of Woods Creek West, I know that the villain
has struck again. D

Someone’s been pillaging my powder.

I can picture just what’s going on in the mind of this
ﬁend. J ealously he zooms in on my sweet little receptacle,
as she reclines innocently in the dust and lint. Perhaps a
small trail of dribble escapes the twitching comer of
his mouth.

But the predator checks himself. He knows he can’t
just wander over and ravish her. What if he is seen? The
dishonor of being sprung swiping just a couple of scoops
of Harris Teeter President’ s Choice Extra White Ultra Laun-
dry Detergent would be unbearable. But he’s fairly sure
he can get away with it if he’s fast enough. He’s only in

Alex knows ‘what you did last summer’

‘ trouble if I actually catch him in the act.

So he develops the art of the speedy detergent heist.
He strolls nonchalantly into the laundry. He cases the
joint while casually slinging his ﬁlthy briefs into washer
number three. All clear. Faster than lightning he strikes.
He leaps over to the Pepsi machine and seizes the unwit-
ting container.

Rapaciously he rends open my carton, ﬂicks a couple
of scoops of the precious white stuff into machine num-
ber ‘three, then frantically tosses the carcass back into
place. Safe.

Maybe he sniggers, Beavis-like, to himself as he melts
into the night. He’ll live to pillage another wash.

Adrenaline courses through this twisted mind. The
thrill is addictive. So he doesn’t splash out $3.49 for his
own little box of Harris Teeter President’s Choice Extra
White Ultra Laundry Detergent. He would rather take mine
and get away with it, he would rather screw my girl than
get his own. Is this a personal thing? Is he pursuing some
vendetta against me by raping my Harris Teeter grains?
Or is he just a chronic sociopath who lacks the funda-
mental respect for another man’s laundry accessories?
One of these days I will catch him cock-in-hand, unmask
The Lone Laundry Raider, and put my mind at rest. Watch

last   Word

your back, Raider, I’m comin’at ya.

By Alex Christensen
N P/21' Movie Critic

Horror is in transition. It used to be
enough to have a crazy/monster/ ghost-
type creature and a lot of nubile scream-
ing babes. Everybody by now knows
the cliches of the slasher ﬁlm, if not from

- actually having seen them, at least from

having seen “Scream,” where the
“rules” of the horror game are ruthlessly
subverted and parodied in the name of
good fun, and even better scares.

As the world of comedy has learned,
however, there is only so much mileage

to be had from self-referential irony.

Letterman was hilarious when he was
making fun ofhirnselfas apotential mem-
ber of the comedy establishment; now
that he’s there, the establishment itself,
his non-comedy comedy does not play
nearly as well as it used to. Conan
O’Brien works in the world of the sur-
real and ridiculous with great success
— when all else fails to get laughs, the
theory goes, be funny.

So we ﬁnd ourselves in the Letterman
phase of horror ﬁlms. They’re going to

But that’s going to get old fairly quickly.
Then what? Back to pure scares, hope-
ﬁilly avoiding the cliches so thoroughly
dissected by self-aware gore-fests like
“Scream.”

Kevin Williamson, the smart, funny
screenwriter who started this revolution
with his script
“Scary Movie,”
which became

 

ten and “I Know What You Did 2” will
be up next year.

“I Know What You Did” straddles
two worlds of the self-awareness of
“Scream” and the older (and newer)
“pure scare” movies like “Halloween”
and “Nightmare on Elm Street.” It’s not

’ The pitch:

“swam,” (on? “lt’|| be like
might argue it ‘ ’
started, with Halloween
“Child’s Play,”

“Gemilins 2; The meets

New Batch,” or

“Wes Craven’s ‘SC|"eam.’”

New Nightmare”)
seems likely to be

» able to ride the wave of irony and come

out on the other side, with his real abil-
ity to write scary. He may have the privi-
lege of being his own Conan O’Brien.
“I Know What You Did Last Sum-
mer” is the second of Williamson’s
scripts (and hardly the last) to be pro-
duced. “Scream 2” hits theaters this

 

completely outside itself. It wants to be
a straight thriller/slasher ﬁlm, but it des-
perately wants to leaven the proceed-
ing by maybejust a wink here or there.
But these attempts are rather pointless,
even grotesque, like a bad pick-up line.

Aside from this post- “Scream” un-
certainly in places, “I Know What You

be good for a while as self-exploitations.

Colonnade Club

Christmas, “Scream 3” is already writ-

Did” is scary. It’s the story of four teen-

 

DECEMBER 8, 1997

Find elightenment on e-mail

By Tom Monaco

Staff Writer,
I would like to begin within the bounds of reality for a few
moments to give you a few words of advice that I have picked
up along the way and hopefully to spark your interest in the
work of a brilliant man. I realize that for the three or four of

them: The Eleven Statements Toward Personal Enlight-
enment.
1.) Driving under a tangle of overpass.
‘ 2.) Pulling gears to hear switches click; feeling a gust
of nerves.
3.) In the mind of my mind, a hand saunters motives

you (if that many) to coils.
who have consis- ‘ C 4.) The Hand of Randomness.
tently read and 5.) The Hand of Unspeakable
enjoyedmy earlier Be forewarned that these are not ‘hints’ Language-
°°‘“"‘_“S"h‘5_w“1 in the true sense of the word, in fact, I like 6') The Hand °f U“5°°“ 5°‘
be a bit of a d1sap— quence.
poimmem, and 1 to call them: The Eleven Statements 7.) the Hand of1_heUnknown_ .
apologize in ad- Toward Personal Enlightenment. 3-) U“d‘“-“he Pi“°Wa the G11“
Vance for this. 9 ’ breathes.

During my 9.) Texas vs. France?
relatively few Who wins?
years as a universally-oriented scholar of intricacies, I 10-) The spiny Creatures Ofthe deep.

have come across some very interesting facts, people,
and ideas (some of which have been alluded to in my
earlier columns). I must admit, though, that none of these
persons have been more fascinating than the poet/musi-
cian/philosopher J .C. Fitzsimmons. Since both J .C.’s and
my intellectual flags are hung on the same ﬂagpole, we
have developed a mutually engrossing line of correspon-
dence via electronic mail services. In one of the electronic
correspondences, J .C. left me with “a few hints” that I feel
would be worthwhile to share with Washington and Lee
University. Be forewarned that these are not actually
“hints” in the true sense of the word, in fact, I like to call

1 1.) Sin will find you out.

Bonus: Shoveling coal into the open grate.

A quick suggestion before I end: after reading these
hints, make photocopies and send them to your family,
friends, and other assorted loved ones. I would tell you to
put them on Christmas cards, but I am not sure if J .C. would
approve of that.

That is about as much reality as I can stand for right
now, however, I must admit that the circus clown, who lived
with my family for three years, was right when he told me,
“that a little reality really can be interesting, as long as it is
taken in moderation.”

agers, Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt
of “Party of Five”), Helen Shivers (Sa-
rah Michelle Gellar, TV’s “Buffy the
Vampire Slayer), Barry Cox (Ryan
Phillippe), and Ray Bronson (Freddie
Prinze, Jr.), who are celebrating the end
of their last summer together when they
accidently hit someone crossing the
road. Instead of going to the cops, they
decide to dump the body and pretend
it never happened.

Anne Heche, the relatively new ac-
tress whose roles in “Volcano” and
“Donnie Brasco” have marked her as a
real talent to watch, makes a fascinat-
ing cameo.

It’s all a lot of fun. Horror ﬁlms often
are critcized for being predictable and
having stupid characters. These char-
acters are less than smart at times, but
you never have to forgive the screen-
writer. It’s all motivated, explained within
the ﬁlm. And it’s fun to watch. You
won’t guess who the killer is. It doesn’t
go on too long. Everybody’s good-
looking, though a little more nudity
would have gone a long way (Hey, it
would have). People die interestingly.

seven

51¢ All day-Bookstore Sale
W&L Lessons and Carols service sung by the Chamber Sing-

ers in Lee Chapel 353? FRIDAY 34? last day of classes 351‘?
SATURDAY 3335 8 p.m. Handel’s Messiah sung by the
Rockbridge Choral Society at Lenfest 3? SUNDAY 35¢ 3
p.m. Rockbridge Ballet Holiday Dance Concert in Lenfest *1‘?

NEXT WEEK: 51¢ Take those ﬁnals *1‘? do some Christmas

shopping for your roomates, family, and any one else from
whom you want a present 3?; do laundry so your mom won’t

MONDAY 354? 8 p.m. “The
Ninth Step” in the Johnson The-

atre ¢I»‘< TUPSDAY 35$? 7p.m.

the University Chorus and Wind E
Ensemble present a Holiday Con-

cert ¢I’¢ 7:30 p.m. Men’s bas-
ketball in the Warner Center 35¢
9 p.m. “The Ninth Step” 51*?

WEDNESDAY 1%: 6 p.m.

Men’s and women’s swimming

$5 THURSDAY *3? 8 p.m.

have to when you get home 35¢

By Hollister Hovey

W0?-L0 Aios1>A~i.1?t=‘a l= 1?/me
\/

SPEND A SUMMER WORKING IN
THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS OF MONTANA

>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<>l<*,

PRIME MONTANA GUEST RANCH WILL SOON
BE RECRUITING ITS STAFF FOR THE 1998
SUMMER SEASON. BOTH WELL MOTIVATED
UNDERGRADUATED AND GRADUATING SENIORS
WHO DO NOT HAVE SPECIFIC FALL PLANS ARE
‘ENCOURAGED TO INTERVIEW FOR THIS
OPPORTUNITY. REPRESENTATIVES FROM ELK
CANYON RANCH WILL BE ON CAMPUS
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4TH TO CONDUCT
INTERVIEWS.

PLEASE CONTACT AMY HITLIN OF THE
CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE IN
MATTINGLY HOUSE FOR INFORMATION,
INSTRUCTIONS, AN APPLICATION, AND
AN INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT.

l«lvLL‘/woovt .//A

    

WAIaHiNé'PN ‘lt Lee...

Gifts

Always presentable’

CRABTREE 8: EVELYN”

available at:

 

22 West Washington St.
Downtown Lexington
464-3625

Mon—Sat. IO-5pm
Sun 12pm-3pm

 

